The United States Declaration of Independence was the first E-text released by Project Gutenberg, early in 1971.
The title was stored in an emailed instruction set which required a tape or diskpack be hand mounted for retrieval.
The disk pack was the size of a large cake in a cake carrier, cost $1500, and contained 5 megabytes, of which this file took 1-2%.
Two tape backups were kept plus one on paper tape.
This file previously contained a compilation of etexts from #2 to #9.
Also it contained a duplicate of the Declaration - as part of preserving the history of the contents which isn't necessary any longer.
The historical variations of #1 are included in the "old" subdirectory accessed under the "More Files" listing in the landing page for this file.
No edits or changes have been made to them. All of the original Project Gutenberg Etexts from the 1970's were produced in ALL CAPS, no lower case.
The history of the present King of Great Britain is a history of repeated injuries and usurpations, all having in direct object the establishment of an absolute Tyranny over these States.
A Prince, whose character is thus marked by every act which may define a Tyrant, is unfit to be the ruler of a free People. Nor have We been wanting in attention to our British brethren.
We have warned them from time to time of attempts by their legislature to extend an unwarrantable jurisdiction over us.
We have reminded them of the circumstances of our emigration and settlement here.
And for the support of this Declaration, with a firm reliance on the Protection of Divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each other our Lives, our Fortunes and our sacred Honor.
This much we pledge. . .and more. To those old allies whose cultural and spiritual origins we share: we pledge the loyalty of faithful friends.
But this peaceful revolution of hope cannot become the prey of hostile powers.
Together let us explore the stars, conquer the deserts, eradicate disease, tap the ocean depths, and encourage the arts and commerce.
But let us begin. In your hands, my fellow citizens. . .more than mine. . .will rest the final success or failure of our course.
Since this country was founded, each generation of Americans has been summoned to give testimony to its national loyalty.
The graves of young Americans who answered the call to service surround the globe.
This is a retranscription of one of the first Project Gutenberg Etexts, offically dated December 31, 1974-- and now officially re-released on November 19, 1993-- 130 years after it was spoken.
The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here have consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract.
All of the original Project Gutenberg Etexts from the 1970's were produced in ALL CAPS, no lower case.
All legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives. Section 2.
The actual Enumeration shall be made within three Years after the first Meeting of the Congress of the United States, and within every subsequent Term of ten Years, in such Manner as they shall by law Direct.
The Senators and Representatives shall receive a Compensation for their Services, to be ascertained by Law, and paid out of the Treasury of the United States.
But in all such Cases the Votes of both Houses shall be determined by Yeas and Nays, and the Names of the Persons voting for and against the Bill shall be entered on the Journal of each House respectively.
The executive Power shall be vested in a President of the United States of America.
In every Case, after the Choice of the President, the Person having the greatest Number of Votes of the Electors shall be the Vice President.
The President, Vice President and all civil Officers of the United States, shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors. ARTICLE THREE Section 1.
The judicial Power of the United States, shall be vested in one supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish.
The Judges, both of the supreme and inferior Courts, shall hold their Offices during good behavior, and shall, at stated Times, receive for their Services, a Compensation, which shall not be diminished during their Continuance in Office. Section 2.
Treason against the United States, shall consist only in levying War against them, or in adhering to their Enemies, giving them Aid and Comfort.
WASHINGTON-- Presid. and deputy from Virginia New Hampshire John Langdon Nicholas Gilman Massachusetts Nathaniel Gorham Rufus King Connecticut Wm.
Johnson Roger Sherman New York Alexander Hamilton New Jersey Wil: Livingston David Brearley Wm.
Paterson Jona: Dayton Pennsylvania B Franklin Thomas Mifflin Robt Morris Geo.
Clymer Thos FitzSimons Jared Ingersoll James Wilson Gouv Morris Delaware Geo: Read Gunning Bedford jun John Dickinson Richard Bassett Jaco: Broom Maryland James Mchenry Dan of St Thos.
Jenifer Danl Carroll Virginia John Blair-- James Madison Jr. North Carolina Wm.
Blount Rich'd Dobbs Spaight Hu Williamson South Carolina J.
Rutledge Charles Cotesworth Pinckney Charles Pinckney Pierce Butler Georgia William Few Abr Baldwin Attest: William Jackson, Secretary
Give Me Liberty Or Give Me Death Patrick Henry, March 23, 1775. No man thinks more highly than I do of the patriotism, as well as abilities, of the very worthy gentlemen who have just addressed the House.
It is only in this way that we can hope to arrive at truth, and fulfill the great responsibility which we hold to God and our country.
Suffer not yourselves to be betrayed with a kiss.
Ask yourselves how this gracious reception of our petition comports with those warlike preparations which cover our waters and darken our land.
Are fleets and armies necessary to a work of love and reconciliation?
Have we shown ourselves so unwilling to be reconciled that force must be called in to win back our love?
Let us not deceive ourselves, sir.
These are the implements of war and subjugation; the last arguments to which kings resort.
I ask gentlemen, sir, what means this martial array, if its purpose be not to force us to submission?
Can gentlemen assign any other possible motive for it?
Has Great Britain any enemy, in this quarter of the world, to call for all this accumulation of navies and armies?
No, sir, she has none.
They are meant for us: they can be meant for no other. They are sent over to bind and rivet upon us those chains which the British ministry have been so long forging.
And what have we to oppose to them? Shall we try argument?
Sir, we have been trying that for the last ten years. Have we anything new to offer upon the subject?
We have held the subject up in every light of which it is capable; but it has been all in vain. Shall we resort to entreaty and humble supplication?
What terms shall we find which have not been already exhausted?
Let us not, I beseech you, sir, deceive ourselves.
Sir, we have done everything that could be done to avert the storm which is now coming on.
We have petitioned; we have remonstrated; we have supplicated; we have prostrated ourselves before the throne, and have implored its interposition to arrest the tyrannical hands of the ministry and Parliament.
There is no longer any room for hope.
I repeat it, sir, we must fight! An appeal to arms and to the God of hosts is all that is left us! They tell us, sir, that we are weak; unable to cope with so formidable an adversary.
But when shall we be stronger?
Will it be the next week, or the next year?
Will it be when we are totally disarmed, and when a British guard shall be stationed in every house?
Shall we gather strength by irresolution and inaction?
Shall we acquire the means of effectual resistance by lying supinely on our backs and hugging the delusive phantom of hope, until our enemies shall have bound us hand and foot?
Besides, sir, we shall not fight our battles alone. There is a just God who presides over the destinies of nations, and who will raise up friends to fight our battles for us.
The battle, sir, is not to the strong alone; it is to the vigilant, the active, the brave.
Besides, sir, we have no election.
If we were base enough to desire it, it is now too late to retire from the contest.
There is no retreat but in submission and slavery! Our chains are forged!
Their clanking may be heard on the plains of Boston! The war is inevitable--and let it come!
I repeat it, sir, let it come. It is in vain, sir, to extenuate the matter.
Gentlemen may cry, Peace, Peace-- but there is no peace.
The war is actually begun!
The next gale that sweeps from the north will bring to our ears the clash of resounding arms! Our brethren are already in the field!
Why stand we here idle? What is it that gentlemen wish?
Is life so dear, or peace so sweet, as to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God!
I know not what course others may take; but as for me, give me liberty or give me death!
The Mayflower Compact November 11, 1620 [This was November 21, old style calendar] In the name of God, Amen.
The progress of our arms, upon which all else chiefly depends, is as well known to the public as to myself; and it is, I trust, reasonably satisfactory and encouraging to all.
With high hope for the future, no prediction in regard to it is ventured. On the occasion corresponding to this four years ago, all thoughts were anxiously directed to an impending civil war.
All dreaded it-- all sought to avert it.
And the war came. One-eighth of the whole population were colored slaves, not distributed generally over the Union, but localized in the Southern part of it. These slaves constituted a peculiar and powerful interest.
All knew that this interest was, somehow, the cause of the war.
Neither anticipated that the cause of the conflict might cease with, or even before, the conflict itself should cease.
Each looked for an easier triumph, and a result less fundamental and astounding.
The prayers of both could not be answered--that of neither has been answered fully. The Almighty has his own purposes.
Woe unto the world because of offenses! for it must needs be that offenses come; but woe to that man by whom the offense cometh.
There has never been any reasonable cause for such apprehension.
Indeed, the most ample evidence to the contrary has all the while existed and been open to their inspection.
It is found in nearly all the published speeches of him who now addresses you.
I do but quote from one of those speeches when I declare that "I have no purpose, directly or indirectly, to interfere with the institution of slavery in the States where it exists.
I believe I have no lawful right to do so, and I have no inclination to do so.
Those who nominated and elected me did so with full knowledge that I had made this and many similar declarations, and had never recanted them.
All members of Congress swear their support to the whole Constitution-to this provision as much as to any other.
To the proposition, then, that slaves whose cases come within the terms of this clause "shall be delivered up", their oaths are unanimous.
If the slave is to be surrendered, it can be of but little consequence to him or to others by which authority it is done.
During that period fifteen different and greatly distinguished citizens have, in succession, administered the executive branch of the government.
They have conducted it through many perils, and generally with great success.
Perpetuity is implied, if not expressed, in the fundamental law of all national governments.
It is safe to assert that no government proper ever had a provision in its organic law for its own termination.
The Union is much older than the Constitution.
It was formed, in fact, by the Articles of Association in 1774.
It was matured and continued by the Declaration of Independence in 1776.
It was further matured, and the faith of all the then thirteen States expressly plighted and engaged that it should be perpetual, by the Articles of Confederation in 1778.
So far as possible, the people everywhere shall have that sense of perfect security which is most favorable to calm thought and reflection.
Will you hazard so desperate a step while there is any possibility that any portion of the ills you fly from have no real existence?
Is it true, then, that any right, plainly written in the Constitution, has been denied?
Happily the human mind is so constituted that no party can reach to the audacity of doing this. Think, if you can, of a single instance in which a plainly written provision of the Constitution has ever been denied.
All the vital rights of minorities and of individuals are so plainly assured to them by affirmations and negations, guaranties and prohibitions, in the Constitution, that controversies never arise concerning them.
But no organic law can ever be framed with a provision specifically applicable to every question which may occur in practical administration.
No foresight can anticipate, nor any document of reasonable length contain, express provisions for all possible questions.
Shall fugitives from labor be surrendered by national or State authority?
The Constitution does not expressly say.
May Congress prohibit slavery in the Territories?
The Constitution does not expressly say. _Must_ Congress protect slavery in the Territories?
The Constitution does not expressly say. From questions of this class spring all our constitutional controversies, and we divide upon them into majorities and minorities. If the minority will not acquiesce, the majority must, or the government must cease.
For instance, why may not any portion of a new confederacy a year or two hence arbitrarily secede again, precisely as portions of the present Union now claim to secede from it?
A majority held in restraint by constitutional checks and limitations, and always changing easily with deliberate changes of popular opinions and sentiments, is the only true sovereign of a free people.
Nor is there in this view any assault upon the court or the judges.
This is the only substantial dispute.
The great body of the people abide by the dry legal obligation in both cases, and a few break over in each.
This, I think, cannot be perfectly cured; and it would be worse in both cases _after_ the separation of the sections than _before_.
The foreign slave-trade, now imperfectly suppressed, would be ultimately revived, without restriction, in one section, while fugitive slaves, now only partially surrendered, would not be surrendered at all by the other. Physically speaking, we cannot separate.
We cannot remove our respective sections from each other, nor build an impassable wall between them.
A husband and wife may be divorced, and go out of the presence and beyond the reach of each other; but the different parts of our country cannot do this.
They cannot but remain face to face, and intercourse, either amicable or hostile, must continue between them.
Is it possible, then, to make that intercourse more advantageous or more satisfactory after separation than before?
Can aliens make treaties easier than friends can make laws?
Can treaties be more faithfully enforced between aliens than laws can among friends?
Whenever they shall grow weary of the existing government, they can exercise their _constitutional_ right of amending it, or their _revolutionary_ right to dismember or overthrow it.
I cannot be ignorant of the fact that many worthy and patriotic citizens are desirous of having the national Constitution amended.
I understand a proposed amendment to the Constitution-which amendment, however, I have not seen-has passed Congress, to the effect that the Federal Government shall never interfere with the domestic institutions of the States, including that of persons held to service.
The people themselves can do this also if they choose; but the executive, as such, has nothing to do with it.
His duty is to administer the present government, as it came to his hands, and to transmit it, unimpaired by him, to his successor. Why should there not be a patient confidence in the ultimate justice of the people?
Is there any better or equal hope in the world?
In our present differences is either party without faith of being in the right?
Nothing valuable can be lost by taking time.
If there be an object to _hurry_ any of you in hot haste to a step which you would never take _deliberately_, that object will be frustrated by taking time; but no good object can be frustrated by it.
If it were admitted that you who are dissatisfied hold the right side in the dispute, there still is no single good reason for precipitate action.
The government will not assail _you_.
You can have no conflict without being yourselves the aggressors. _You_ have no oath registered in heaven to destroy the government, while _I_ shall have the most solemn one to "preserve, protect, and defend it." I am loathe to close.
We are not enemies, but friends.
We must not be enemies.
Though passion may have strained, it must not break our bonds of affection.
And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?
3:10 And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself. 3:11 And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked?
4:7 If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? and if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door.
And he said, I know not: Am I my brother's keeper?
17:18 And Abraham said unto God, O that Ishmael might live before thee!
And he said, Behold, in the tent. 18:10 And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the time of life; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son.
18:13 And the LORD said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of a surety bear a child, which am old?
18:14 Is any thing too hard for the LORD?
18:24 Peradventure there be fifty righteous within the city: wilt thou also destroy and not spare the place for the fifty righteous that are therein?
And he said, If I find there forty and five, I will not destroy it. 18:29 And he spake unto him yet again, and said, Peradventure there shall be forty found there.
And he said, I will not do it for forty's sake. 18:30 And he said unto him, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will speak: Peradventure there shall thirty be found there.
And he said, I will not do it, if I find thirty there. 18:31 And he said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the LORD: Peradventure there shall be twenty found there.
And he said, I will not destroy it for twenty's sake. 18:32 And he said, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will speak yet but this once: Peradventure ten shall be found there.
And they said again, This one fellow came in to sojourn, and he will needs be a judge: now will we deal worse with thee, than with them.
And he said, Behold the fire and the wood: but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?
And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim. 25:4 And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abidah, and Eldaah.
And he said, I am. 27:25 And he said, Bring it near to me, and I will eat of my son's venison, that my soul may bless thee.
And he said, Hast thou not reserved a blessing for me?
27:38 And Esau said unto his father, Hast thou but one blessing, my father? bless me, even me also, O my father.
And they said, Of Haran are we. 29:5 And he said unto them, Know ye Laban the son of Nahor?
And they said, We know him. 29:6 And he said unto them, Is he well?
And he told Laban all these things. 29:14 And Laban said to him, Surely thou art my bone and my flesh.
And he abode with him the space of a month. 29:15 And Laban said unto Jacob, Because thou art my brother, shouldest thou therefore serve me for nought? tell me, what shall thy wages be?
Then Rachel said to Leah, Give me, I pray thee, of thy son's mandrakes. 30:15 And she said unto her, Is it a small matter that thou hast taken my husband? and wouldest thou take away my son's mandrakes also?
30:31 And he said, What shall I give thee?
Then went he out of Leah's tent, and entered into Rachel's tent. 31:34 Now Rachel had taken the images, and put them in the camel's furniture, and sat upon them.
And Laban searched all the tent, but found them not. 31:35 And she said to her father, Let it not displease my lord that I cannot rise up before thee; for the custom of women is upon me.
And he searched but found not the images. 31:36 And Jacob was wroth, and chode with Laban: and Jacob answered and said to Laban, What is my trespass? what is my sin, that thou hast so hotly pursued after me?
And he said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me. 32:27 And he said unto him, What is thy name?
Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth?
And he said to him, Here am I. 37:14 And he said to him, Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well with thy brethren, and well with the flocks; and bring me word again.
So he sent him out of the vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem. 37:15 And a certain man found him, and, behold, he was wandering in the field: and the man asked him, saying, What seekest thou?
37:16 And he said, I seek my brethren: tell me, I pray thee, where they feed their flocks. 37:17 And the man said, They are departed hence; for I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan.
37:27 Come, and let us sell him to the Ishmeelites, and let not our hand be upon him; for he is our brother and our flesh.
38:17 And he said, I will send thee a kid from the flock. And she said, Wilt thou give me a pledge, till thou send it?
38:18 And he said, What pledge shall I give thee?
And she said, Thy signet, and thy bracelets, and thy staff that is in thine hand.
40:8 And they said unto him, We have dreamed a dream, and there is no interpreter of it.
And Joseph went out over all the land of Egypt. 41:46 And Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt.
44:16 And Judah said, What shall we say unto my lord? what shall we speak? or how shall we clear ourselves?
And his brethren could not answer him; for they were troubled at his presence. 45:4 And Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you. And they came near.
And he said, I will do as thou hast said. 47:31 And he said, Swear unto me.
And he sware unto him.
48:9 And Joseph said unto his father, They are my sons, whom God hath given me in this place.
2:8 And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go.
And the maid went and called the child's mother. 2:9 And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Take this child away, and nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages.
And the woman took the child, and nursed it. 2:10 And the child grew, and she brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son.
2:14 And he said, Who made thee a prince and a judge over us? intendest thou to kill me, as thou killedst the Egyptian?
And Moses feared, and said, Surely this thing is known. 2:15 Now when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to slay Moses.
And he said, A rod. 4:3 And he said, Cast it on the ground.
And he cast it on the ground, and it became a serpent; and Moses fled from before it. 4:4 And the LORD said unto Moses, Put forth thine hand, and take it by the tail.
And he put his hand into his bosom: and when he took it out, behold, his hand was leprous as snow. 4:7 And he said, Put thine hand into thy bosom again.
5:15 Then the officers of the children of Israel came and cried unto Pharaoh, saying, Wherefore dealest thou thus with thy servants?
8:10 And he said, To morrow.
10:8 And Moses and Aaron were brought again unto Pharaoh: and he said unto them, Go, serve the LORD your God: but who are they that shall go?
12:27 That ye shall say, It is the sacrifice of the LORD's passover, who passed over the houses of the children of Israel in Egypt, when he smote the Egyptians, and delivered our houses.
14:12 Is not this the word that we did tell thee in Egypt, saying, Let us alone, that we may serve the Egyptians?
And Moses said unto them, Why chide ye with me? wherefore do ye tempt the LORD?
17:3 And the people thirsted there for water; and the people murmured against Moses, and said, Wherefore is this that thou hast brought us up out of Egypt, to kill us and our children and our cattle with thirst?
All the firstborn of thy sons thou shalt redeem.
11:12 Have I conceived all this people? have I begotten them, that thou shouldest say unto me, Carry them in thy bosom, as a nursing father beareth the sucking child, unto the land which thou swarest unto their fathers?
And be ye of good courage, and bring of the fruit of the land.
14:3 And wherefore hath the LORD brought us unto this land, to fall by the sword, that our wives and our children should be a prey? were it not better for us to return into Egypt?
16:10 And he hath brought thee near to him, and all thy brethren the sons of Levi with thee: and seek ye the priesthood also?
16:11 For which cause both thou and all thy company are gathered together against the LORD: and what is Aaron, that ye murmur against him?
20:4 And why have ye brought up the congregation of the LORD into this wilderness, that we and our cattle should die there?
Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my last end be like his!
23:11 And Balak said unto Balaam, What hast thou done unto me?
I took thee to curse mine enemies, and, behold, thou hast blessed them altogether. 23:12 And he answered and said, Must I not take heed to speak that which the LORD hath put in my mouth?
And Balak said unto him, What hath the LORD spoken?
32:7 And wherefore discourage ye the heart of the children of Israel from going over into the land which the LORD hath given them?
4:8 And what nation is there so great, that hath statutes and judgments so righteous as all this law, which I set before you this day?
4:33 Did ever people hear the voice of God speaking out of the midst of the fire, as thou hast heard, and live?
And all the people shall answer and say, Amen. 27:16 Cursed be he that setteth light by his father or his mother.
And all the people shall say, Amen. 27:17 Cursed be he that removeth his neighbour's landmark.
And all the people shall say, Amen. 27:18 Cursed be he that maketh the blind to wander out of the way.
And all the people shall say, Amen. 27:19 Cursed be he that perverteth the judgment of the stranger, fatherless, and widow.
And all the people shall say, Amen. 27:20 Cursed be he that lieth with his father's wife; because he uncovereth his father's skirt.
And all the people shall say, Amen. 27:21 Cursed be he that lieth with any manner of beast.
And all the people shall say, Amen. 27:22 Cursed be he that lieth with his sister, the daughter of his father, or the daughter of his mother.
And all the people shall say, Amen. 27:23 Cursed be he that lieth with his mother in law.
And all the people shall say, Amen. 27:24 Cursed be he that smiteth his neighbour secretly.
And all the people shall say, Amen. 27:25 Cursed be he that taketh reward to slay an innocent person.
And all the people shall say, Amen. 27:26 Cursed be he that confirmeth not all the words of this law to do them.
30:13 Neither is it beyond the sea, that thou shouldest say, Who shall go over the sea for us, and bring it unto us, that we may hear it, and do it?
32:30 How should one chase a thousand, and two put ten thousand to flight, except their Rock had sold them, and the LORD had shut them up?
5:14 And he said, Nay; but as captain of the host of the LORD am I now come.
And Joshua fell on his face to the earth, and did worship, and said unto him, What saith my Lord unto his servant?
5:15 And the captain of the LORD's host said unto Joshua, Loose thy shoe from off thy foot; for the place whereon thou standest is holy.
7:8 O LORD, what shall I say, when Israel turneth their backs before their enemies!
7:9 For the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land shall hear of it, and shall environ us round, and cut off our name from the earth: and what wilt thou do unto thy great name?
7:10 And the LORD said unto Joshua, Get thee up; wherefore liest thou thus upon thy face?
And all Israel stoned him with stones, and burned them with fire, after they had stoned them with stones. 7:26 And they raised over him a great heap of stones unto this day.
So the LORD turned from the fierceness of his anger.
9:8 And they said unto Joshua, We are thy servants.
And Joshua said unto them, Who are ye? and from whence come ye?
Now their cities were Gibeon, and Chephirah, and Beeroth, and Kirjathjearim. 9:18 And the children of Israel smote them not, because the princes of the congregation had sworn unto them by the LORD God of Israel.
Is not this written in the book of Jasher?
1:15 And she said unto him, Give me a blessing: for thou hast given me a south land; give me also springs of water.
And all that stood by him went out from him. 3:20 And Ehud came unto him; and he was sitting in a summer parlour, which he had for himself alone.
And when he had turned in unto her into the tent, she covered him with a mantle. 4:19 And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water to drink; for I am thirsty.
So he died. 4:22 And, behold, as Barak pursued Sisera, Jael came out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will shew thee the man whom thou seekest.
5:9 My heart is toward the governors of Israel, that offered themselves willingly among the people.
For the divisions of Reuben there were great thoughts of heart. 5:16 Why abodest thou among the sheepfolds, to hear the bleatings of the flocks?
5:31 So let all thine enemies perish, O LORD: but let them that love him be as the sun when he goeth forth in his might.
And they did chide with him sharply. 8:2 And he said unto them, What have I done now in comparison of you? Is not the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiezer?
But the youth drew not his sword: for he feared, because he was yet a youth. 8:21 Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, Rise thou, and fall upon us: for as the man is, so is his strength.
9:10 And the trees said to the fig tree, Come thou, and reign over us. 9:11 But the fig tree said unto them, Should I forsake my sweetness, and my good fruit, and go to be promoted over the trees?
9:12 Then said the trees unto the vine, Come thou, and reign over us. 9:13 And the vine said unto them, Should I leave my wine, which cheereth God and man, and go to be promoted over the trees?
9:29 And would to God this people were under my hand! then would I remove Abimelech.
11:24 Wilt not thou possess that which Chemosh thy god giveth thee to possess?
If he said, Nay; 12:6 Then said they unto him, Say now Shibboleth: and he said Sibboleth: for he could not frame to pronounce it right.
Then they took him, and slew him at the passages of Jordan: and there fell at that time of the Ephraimites forty and two thousand. 12:7 And Jephthah judged Israel six years.
And he said, I am. 13:12 And Manoah said, Now let thy words come to pass.
How shall we order the child, and how shall we do unto him?
For Manoah knew not that he was an angel of the LORD. 13:17 And Manoah said unto the angel of the LORD, What is thy name, that when thy sayings come to pass we may do thee honour?
13:18 And the angel of the LORD said unto him, Why askest thou thus after my name, seeing it is secret?
And Manoah and his wife looked on it, and fell on their faces to the ground. 13:21 But the angel of the LORD did no more appear to Manoah and to his wife.
And they said unto him, Put forth thy riddle, that we may hear it. 14:14 And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth meat, and out of the strong came forth sweetness.
14:16 And Samson's wife wept before him, and said, Thou dost but hate me, and lovest me not: thou hast put forth a riddle unto the children of my people, and hast not told it me.
And he said unto her, Behold, I have not told it my father nor my mother, and shall I tell it thee?
And they answered, Samson, the son in law of the Timnite, because he had taken his wife, and given her to his companion.
And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them. 15:12 And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines.
And he brake the withs, as a thread of tow is broken when it toucheth the fire.
And there were liers in wait abiding in the chamber.
And he brake them from off his arms like a thread. 16:13 And Delilah said unto Samson, Hitherto thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: tell me wherewith thou mightest be bound.
And he said unto her, If thou weavest the seven locks of my head with the web. 16:14 And she fastened it with the pin, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson.
And he awoke out of his sleep, and said, I will go out as at other times before, and shake myself.
And he bowed himself with all his might; and the house fell upon the lords, and upon all the people that were therein.
Then said the priest unto them, What do ye?
And they turned their faces, and said unto Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with such a company?
18:24 And he said, Ye have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and ye are gone away: and what have I more? and what is this that ye say unto me, What aileth thee?
21:8 And they said, What one is there of the tribes of Israel that came not up to Mizpeh to the LORD?
1:12 Turn again, my daughters, go your way; for I am too old to have an husband.
And it came to pass, when they were come to Bethlehem, that all the city was moved about them, and they said, Is this Naomi?
And they answered him, The LORD bless thee. 2:5 Then said Boaz unto his servant that was set over the reapers, Whose damsel is this?
3:2 And now is not Boaz of our kindred, with whose maidens thou wast?
And he turned aside, and sat down. 4:2 And he took ten men of the elders of the city, and said, Sit ye down here.
If thou wilt redeem it, redeem it: but if thou wilt not redeem it, then tell me, that I may know: for there is none to redeem it beside thee; and I am after thee.
1:9 So Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunk.
And they went unto their own home. 2:21 And the LORD visited Hannah, so that she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters.
2:29 Wherefore kick ye at my sacrifice and at mine offering, which I have commanded in my habitation; and honourest thy sons above me, to make yourselves fat with the chiefest of all the offerings of Israel my people?
And he went and lay down. 3:6 And the LORD called yet again, Samuel.
And Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me.
And he arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me.
And Eli perceived that the LORD had called the child. 3:9 Therefore Eli said unto Samuel, Go, lie down: and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, LORD; for thy servant heareth.
So Samuel went and lay down in his place. 3:10 And the LORD came, and stood, and called as at other times, Samuel, Samuel.
And Samuel feared to shew Eli the vision. 3:16 Then Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my son.
And when the man came into the city, and told it, all the city cried out. 4:14 And when Eli heard the noise of the crying, he said, What meaneth the noise of this tumult?
And he said, What is there done, my son?
And they answered, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about unto Gath.
And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpeh. 7:7 And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mizpeh, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel.
And on whom is all the desire of Israel?
Is it not on thee, and on all thy father's house?
9:21 And Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? and my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? wherefore then speakest thou so to me?
And Samuel said, Behold that which is left! set it before thee, and eat: for unto this time hath it been kept for thee since I said, I have invited the people.
Is Saul also among the prophets?
10:12 And one of the same place answered and said, But who is their father?
Therefore it became a proverb, Is Saul also among the prophets?
10:13 And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place. 10:14 And Saul's uncle said unto him and to his servant, Whither went ye?
And all the people shouted, and said, God save the king. 10:25 Then Samuel told the people the manner of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before the LORD.
And they despised him, and brought no presents.
And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear. 13:4 And all Israel heard say that Saul had smitten a garrison of the Philistines, and that Israel also was had in abomination with the Philistines.
And when they had numbered, behold, Jonathan and his armourbearer were not there. 14:18 And Saul said unto Ahiah, Bring hither the ark of God.
And they said, Do whatsoever seemeth good unto thee.
Then said the priest, Let us draw near hither unto God. 14:37 And Saul asked counsel of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel?
But there was not a man among all the people that answered him. 14:40 Then said he unto all Israel, Be ye on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side.
And Jonathan was taken. 14:43 Then Saul said to Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done.
God forbid: as the LORD liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day.
And he said unto him, Say on. 15:17 And Samuel said, When thou wast little in thine own sight, wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel, and the LORD anointed thee king over Israel?
Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. 15:23 For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry.
And Agag came unto him delicately.
And Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death is past. 15:33 And Samuel said, As the sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be childless among women.
And he said, Neither hath the LORD chosen this. 16:9 Then Jesse made Shammah to pass by.
And he said, Neither hath the LORD chosen this. 16:10 Again, Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, The LORD hath not chosen these. 16:11 And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are here all thy children?
And he said, There remaineth yet the youngest, and, behold, he keepeth the sheep.
I know thy pride, and the naughtiness of thine heart; for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle. 17:29 And David said, What have I now done?
And David said unto Saul, I cannot go with these; for I have not proved them.
And David said, Seemeth it to you a light thing to be a king's son in law, seeing that I am a poor man, and lightly esteemed?
And Michal answered Saul, He said unto me, Let me go; why should I kill thee?
19:18 So David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him.
And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they prophesied also. 19:22 Then went he also to Ramah, and came to a great well that is in Sechu: and he asked and said, Where are Samuel and David?
Wherefore they say, Is Saul also among the prophets?
20:1 And David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is mine iniquity? and what is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
20:9 And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee: for if I knew certainly that evil were determined by my father to come upon thee, then would not I tell it thee?
20:10 Then said David to Jonathan, Who shall tell me? or what if thy father answer thee roughly?
20:11 And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go out into the field.
20:31 For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the ground, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom.
Wherefore now send and fetch him unto me, for he shall surely die. 20:32 And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Wherefore shall he be slain? what hath he done?
20:38 And Jonathan cried after the lad, Make speed, haste, stay not.
21:15 Have I need of mad men, that ye have brought this fellow to play the mad man in my presence? shall this fellow come into my house?
22:14 Then Ahimelech answered the king, and said, And who is so faithful among all thy servants as David, which is the king's son in law, and goeth at thy bidding, and is honourable in thine house?
23:4 Then David enquired of the LORD yet again.
O LORD God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant.
And the LORD said, He will come down. 23:12 Then said David, Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul?
And the LORD said, They will deliver thee up. 23:13 Then David and his men, which were about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went whithersoever they could go.
And it was told Saul that David was escaped from Keilah; and he forbare to go forth. 23:14 And David abode in the wilderness in strong holds, and remained in a mountain in the wilderness of Ziph.
And they told David; wherefore he came down into a rock, and abode in the wilderness of Maon.
But Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way. 24:8 David also arose afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king.
And when Saul looked behind him, David stooped with his face to the earth, and bowed himself. 24:9 And David said to Saul, Wherefore hearest thou men's words, saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt?
And Saul went home; but David and his men gat them up unto the hold. 25:1 And Samuel died; and all the Israelites were gathered together, and lamented him, and buried him in his house at Ramah.
25:12 So David's young men turned their way, and went again, and came and told him all those sayings. 25:13 And David said unto his men, Gird ye on every man his sword.
Then Abner answered and said, Who art thou that criest to the king?
And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king. 26:18 And he said, Wherefore doth my lord thus pursue after his servant? for what have I done? or what evil is in mine hand?
26:19 Now therefore, I pray thee, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant.
And Achish said unto David, Know thou assuredly, that thou shalt go out with me to battle, thou and thy men. 28:2 And David said to Achish, Surely thou shalt know what thy servant can do.
And Achish said to David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of mine head for ever. 28:3 Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city.
28:10 And Saul sware to her by the LORD, saying, As the LORD liveth, there shall no punishment happen to thee for this thing. 28:11 Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up unto thee?
And she said, An old man cometh up; and he is covered with a mantle.
And Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and bowed himself. 28:15 And Samuel said to Saul, Why hast thou disquieted me, to bring me up?
But his servants, together with the woman, compelled him; and he hearkened unto their voice.
29:5 Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in dances, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And Abiathar brought thither the ephod to David. 30:8 And David enquired at the LORD, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? shall I overtake them?
But his armourbearer would not; for he was sore afraid.
And he said unto him, Out of the camp of Israel am I escaped. 1:4 And David said unto him, How went the matter?
And I answered, Here am I. 1:8 And he said unto me, Who art thou?
1:15 And David called one of the young men, and said, Go near, and fall upon him.
2:1 And it came to pass after this, that David enquired of the LORD, saying, Shall I go up into any of the cities of Judah?
And the LORD said unto him, Go up.
And David said, Whither shall I go up?
3:34 Thy hands were not bound, nor thy feet put into fetters: as a man falleth before wicked men, so fellest thou.
4:12 And David commanded his young men, and they slew them, and cut off their hands and their feet, and hanged them up over the pool in Hebron.
Wherefore they said, The blind and the lame shall not come into the house. 5:9 So David dwelt in the fort, and called it the city of David.
So all the people departed every one to his house. 6:20 Then David returned to bless his household.
7:19 And this was yet a small thing in thy sight, O Lord GOD; but thou hast spoken also of thy servant's house for a great while to come.
And is this the manner of man, O Lord GOD?
9:2 And there was of the house of Saul a servant whose name was Ziba.
And when they had called him unto David, the king said unto him, Art thou Ziba?
And he said, Thy servant is he. 9:3 And the king said, Is there not yet any of the house of Saul, that I may shew the kindness of God unto him?
And Ziba said unto the king, Jonathan hath yet a son, which is lame on his feet. 9:4 And the king said unto him, Where is he?
And he answered, Behold thy servant!
Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants. 9:11 Then said Ziba unto the king, According to all that my lord the king hath commanded his servant, so shall thy servant do.
As for Mephibosheth, said the king, he shall eat at my table, as one of the king's sons. 9:12 And Mephibosheth had a young son, whose name was Micha.
And David sent to comfort him by the hand of his servants for his father.
But the thing that David had done displeased the LORD. 12:1 And the LORD sent Nathan unto David.
12:19 But when David saw that his servants whispered, David perceived that the child was dead: therefore David said unto his servants, Is the child dead?
12:23 But now he is dead, wherefore should I fast? can I bring him back again?
And Amnon said, Have out all men from me.
And they went out every man from him. 13:10 And Amnon said unto Tamar, Bring the meat into the chamber, that I may eat of thine hand.
And Amnon said unto her, Arise, be gone. 13:16 And she said unto him, There is no cause: this evil in sending me away is greater than the other that thou didst unto me.
And he pressed him: howbeit he would not go, but blessed him. 13:26 Then said Absalom, If not, I pray thee, let my brother Amnon go with us.
And he said, As the LORD liveth, there shall not one hair of thy son fall to the earth. 14:12 Then the woman said, Let thine handmaid, I pray thee, speak one word unto my lord the king.
And the woman said, Let my lord the king now speak. 14:19 And the king said, Is not the hand of Joab with thee in all this?
And Absalom's servants set the field on fire. 14:31 Then Joab arose, and came to Absalom unto his house, and said unto him, Wherefore have thy servants set my field on fire?
Who shall then say, Wherefore hast thou done so?
And the woman said unto them, They be gone over the brook of water.
And Joab said, Wherefore wilt thou run, my son, seeing that thou hast no tidings ready?
18:23 But howsoever, said he, let me run.
And he said unto him, Run.
And the king said, If he be alone, there is tidings in his mouth.
And the king said, He is a good man, and cometh with good tidings. 18:28 And Ahimaaz called, and said unto the king, All is well.
And Ahimaaz answered, When Joab sent the king's servant, and me thy servant, I saw a great tumult, but I knew not what it was. 18:30 And the king said unto him, Turn aside, and stand here.
And they told unto all the people, saying, Behold, the king doth sit in the gate.
Now therefore why speak ye not a word of bringing the king back?
19:13 And say ye to Amasa, Art thou not of my bone, and of my flesh?
19:23 Therefore the king said unto Shimei, Thou shalt not die.
What right therefore have I yet to cry any more unto the king?
19:29 And the king said unto him, Why speakest thou any more of thy matters?
19:36 Thy servant will go a little way over Jordan with the king: and why should the king recompense it me with such a reward?
19:37 Let thy servant, I pray thee, turn back again, that I may die in mine own city, and be buried by the grave of my father and of my mother.
And he answered, I am he.
Then she said unto him, Hear the words of thine handmaid.
And the woman said unto Joab, Behold, his head shall be thrown to thee over the wall. 20:22 Then the woman went unto all the people in her wisdom.
And they cut off the head of Sheba the son of Bichri, and cast it out to Joab. And he blew a trumpet, and they retired from the city, every man to his tent.
21:4 And the Gibeonites said unto him, We will have no silver nor gold of Saul, nor of his house; neither for us shalt thou kill any man in Israel.
These things did these three mighty men. 23:18 And Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was chief among three.
24:4 Notwithstanding the king's word prevailed against Joab, and against the captains of the host.
So David bought the threshingfloor and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver. 24:25 And David built there an altar unto the LORD, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings.
And the king said, What wouldest thou?
And when Joab heard the sound of the trumpet, he said, Wherefore is this noise of the city being in an uproar?
And she said, Comest thou peaceably?
And he said, Peaceably. 2:14 He said moreover, I have somewhat to say unto thee.
Then Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, saying, Go, fall upon him. 2:30 And Benaiah came to the tabernacle of the LORD, and said unto him, Thus saith the king, Come forth.
And he said, Nay; but I will die here.
And this said, No; but the dead is thy son, and the living is my son.
And the people departed. 12:6 And king Rehoboam consulted with the old men, that stood before Solomon his father while he yet lived, and said, How do ye advise that I may answer this people?
For his sons had seen what way the man of God went, which came from Judah. 13:13 And he said unto his sons, Saddle me the ass.
So they saddled him the ass: and he rode thereon, 13:14 And went after the man of God, and found him sitting under an oak: and he said unto him, Art thou the man of God that camest from Judah?
Rehoboam was forty and one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD did choose out of all the tribes of Israel, to put his name there.
And his mother's name was Naamah an Ammonitess.
17:19 And he said unto her, Give me thy son.
18:8 And he answered him, I am: go, tell thy lord, Behold, Elijah is here. 18:9 And he said, What have I sinned, that thou wouldest deliver thy servant into the hand of Ahab, to slay me?
But there was no voice, nor any that answered.
And all the people came near unto him.
And they did it the second time. And he said, Do it the third time.
And Elijah went up to the top of Carmel; and he cast himself down upon the earth, and put his face between his knees, 18:43 And said to his servant, Go up now, look toward the sea.
And he went up, and looked, and said, There is nothing.
And he said, Go again seven times. 18:44 And it came to pass at the seventh time, that he said, Behold, there ariseth a little cloud out of the sea, like a man's hand.
And he said, Thus saith the LORD, Even by the young men of the princes of the provinces.
Then he said, Who shall order the battle?
And he said, Is he yet alive? he is my brother. 20:33 Now the men did diligently observe whether any thing would come from him, and did hastily catch it: and they said, Thy brother Benhadad.
Then he said, Go ye, bring him.
Then said Ahab, I will send thee away with this covenant.
So he made a covenant with him, and sent him away. 20:35 And a certain man of the sons of the prophets said unto his neighbour in the word of the LORD, Smite me, I pray thee.
22:4 And he said unto Jehoshaphat, Wilt thou go with me to battle to Ramothgilead?
And they said, Go up; for the LORD shall deliver it into the hand of the king. 22:7 And Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of the LORD besides, that we might enquire of him?
And the king said unto him, Micaiah, shall we go against Ramothgilead to battle, or shall we forbear?
And one said on this manner, and another said on that manner. 22:21 And there came forth a spirit, and stood before the LORD, and said, I will persuade him. 22:22 And the LORD said unto him, Wherewith?
1:4 Now therefore thus saith the LORD, Thou shalt not come down from that bed on which thou art gone up, but shalt surely die.
And Elijah departed. 1:5 And when the messengers turned back unto him, he said unto them, Why are ye now turned back?
1:8 And they answered him, He was an hairy man, and girt with a girdle of leather about his loins.
And he said, It is Elijah the Tishbite. 1:9 Then the king sent unto him a captain of fifty with his fifty.
And he went up to him: and, behold, he sat on the top of an hill.
And Elisha said unto him, As the LORD liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee.
So they went down to Bethel. 2:3 And the sons of the prophets that were at Bethel came forth to Elisha, and said unto him, Knowest thou that the LORD will take away thy master from thy head to day?
And he said, Yea, I know it; hold ye your peace. 2:4 And Elijah said unto him, Elisha, tarry here, I pray thee; for the LORD hath sent me to Jericho.
And he said, As the LORD liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee.
So they came to Jericho. 2:5 And the sons of the prophets that were at Jericho came to Elisha, and said unto him, Knowest thou that the LORD will take away thy master from thy head to day?
And he answered, Yea, I know it; hold ye your peace. 2:6 And Elijah said unto him, Tarry, I pray thee, here; for the LORD hath sent me to Jordan.
And he said, Ye shall not send. 2:17 And when they urged him till he was ashamed, he said, Send.
They sent therefore fifty men; and they sought three days, but found him not. 2:18 And when they came again to him, (for he tarried at Jericho,) he said unto them, Did I not say unto you, Go not?
And he said, I will go up: I am as thou art, my people as thy people, and my horses as thy horses. 3:8 And he said, Which way shall we go up?
And one of the king of Israel's servants answered and said, Here is Elisha the son of Shaphat, which poured water on the hands of Elijah. 3:12 And Jehoshaphat said, The word of the LORD is with him.
And he said unto her, There is not a vessel more.
And the oil stayed. 4:7 Then she came and told the man of God.
And she answered, I dwell among mine own people. 4:14 And he said, What then is to be done for her?
And Gehazi answered, Verily she hath no child, and her husband is old. 4:15 And he said, Call her.
And when he had called her, she stood in the door. 4:16 And he said, About this season, according to the time of life, thou shalt embrace a son.
And she answered, It is well: 4:27 And when she came to the man of God to the hill, she caught him by the feet: but Gehazi came near to thrust her away.
And he arose, and followed her. 4:31 And Gehazi passed on before them, and laid the staff upon the face of the child; but there was neither voice, nor hearing.
And it came to pass, as they were eating of the pottage, that they cried out, and said, O thou man of God, there is death in the pot.
And they could not eat thereof. 4:41 But he said, Then bring meal.
And he cast it into the pot; and he said, Pour out for the people, that they may eat.
And there was no harm in the pot. 4:42 And there came a man from Baalshalisha, and brought the man of God bread of the firstfruits, twenty loaves of barley, and full ears of corn in the husk thereof.
And he said, Give unto the people, that they may eat. 4:43 And his servitor said, What, should I set this before an hundred men?
And when Naaman saw him running after him, he lighted down from the chariot to meet him, and said, Is all well?
5:22 And he said, All is well.
And Elisha said unto him, Whence comest thou, Gehazi?
And he said, Thy servant went no whither. 5:26 And he said unto him, Went not mine heart with thee, when the man turned again from his chariot to meet thee?
Is it a time to receive money, and to receive garments, and oliveyards, and vineyards, and sheep, and oxen, and menservants, and maidservants?
5:27 The leprosy therefore of Naaman shall cleave unto thee, and unto thy seed for ever.
And he answered, Go ye. 6:3 And one said, Be content, I pray thee, and go with thy servants. And he answered, I will go. 6:4 So he went with them.
And he shewed him the place. And he cut down a stick, and cast it in thither; and the iron did swim. 6:7 Therefore said he, Take it up to thee.
And his servant said unto him, Alas, my master! how shall we do?
6:16 And he answered, Fear not: for they that be with us are more than they that be with them. 6:17 And Elisha prayed, and said, LORD, I pray thee, open his eyes, that he may see.
But he led them to Samaria. 6:20 And it came to pass, when they were come into Samaria, that Elisha said, LORD, open the eyes of these men, that they may see.
6:28 And the king said unto her, What aileth thee?
6:33 And while he yet talked with them, behold, the messenger came down unto him: and he said, Behold, this evil is of the LORD; what should I wait for the LORD any longer?
7:4 If we say, We will enter into the city, then the famine is in the city, and we shall die there: and if we sit still here, we die also.
And the messengers returned, and told the king. 7:16 And the people went out, and spoiled the tents of the Syrians.
And Gehazi said, My lord, O king, this is the woman, and this is her son, whom Elisha restored to life. 8:6 And when the king asked the woman, she told him.
And Elisha answered, The LORD hath shewed me that thou shalt be king over Syria. 8:14 So he departed from Elisha, and came to his master; who said to him, What said Elisha to thee?
And Jehu said, Unto which of all us?
And he opened the door, and fled. 9:11 Then Jehu came forth to the servants of his lord: and one said unto him, Is all well? wherefore came this mad fellow to thee?
And he said unto them, Ye know the man, and his communication. 9:12 And they said, It is false; tell us now.
And Joram said, Take an horseman, and send to meet them, and let him say, Is it peace?
9:18 So there went one on horseback to meet him, and said, Thus saith the king, Is it peace?
And Jehu said, What hast thou to do with peace? turn thee behind me.
And the watchman told, saying, The messenger came to them, but he cometh not again. 9:19 Then he sent out a second on horseback, which came to them, and said, Thus saith the king, Is it peace?
And his chariot was made ready.
And he answered, What peace, so long as the whoredoms of thy mother Jezebel and her witchcrafts are so many?
Now therefore take and cast him into the plat of ground, according to the word of the LORD. 9:27 But when Ahaziah the king of Judah saw this, he fled by the way of the garden house.
And Jehu followed after him, and said, Smite him also in the chariot.
9:32 And he lifted up his face to the window, and said, Who is on my side? who?
And there looked out to him two or three eunuchs. 9:33 And he said, Throw her down.
And as he was at the shearing house in the way, 10:13 Jehu met with the brethren of Ahaziah king of Judah, and said, Who are ye?
And they answered, We are the brethren of Ahaziah; and we go down to salute the children of the king and the children of the queen. 10:14 And he said, Take them alive.
And Jehonadab answered, It is.
If it be, give me thine hand.
And he gave him his hand; and he took him up to him into the chariot. 10:16 And he said, Come with me, and see my zeal for the LORD.
But Jehu did it in subtilty, to the intent that he might destroy the worshippers of Baal. 10:20 And Jehu said, Proclaim a solemn assembly for Baal.
And they proclaimed it. 10:21 And Jehu sent through all Israel: and all the worshippers of Baal came, so that there was not a man left that came not.
And they came into the house of Baal; and the house of Baal was full from one end to another. 10:22 And he said unto him that was over the vestry, Bring forth vestments for all the worshippers of Baal.
10:35 And Jehu slept with his fathers: and they buried him in Samaria.
13:13 And Joash slept with his fathers; and Jeroboam sat upon his throne: and Joash was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel. 13:14 Now Elisha was fallen sick of his sickness whereof he died.
And Joash the king of Israel came down unto him, and wept over his face, and said, O my father, my father, the chariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof. 13:15 And Elisha said unto him, Take bow and arrows.
And he said, The arrow of the LORD's deliverance, and the arrow of deliverance from Syria: for thou shalt smite the Syrians in Aphek, till thou have consumed them. 13:18 And he said, Take the arrows.
And he said unto the king of Israel, Smite upon the ground.
And they went up and came to Jerusalem.
18:20 Thou sayest, (but they are but vain words,) I have counsel and strength for the war.
Now on whom dost thou trust, that thou rebellest against me?
18:25 Am I now come up without the LORD against this place to destroy it?
18:34 Where are the gods of Hamath, and of Arpad? where are the gods of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivah? have they delivered Samaria out of mine hand?
18:35 Who are they among all the gods of the countries, that have delivered their country out of mine hand, that the LORD should deliver Jerusalem out of mine hand?
19:13 Where is the king of Hamath, and the king of Arpad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, of Hena, and Ivah?
And Esarhaddon his son reigned in his stead. 20:1 In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death.
20:9 And Isaiah said, This sign shalt thou have of the LORD, that the LORD will do the thing that he hath spoken: shall the shadow go forward ten degrees, or go back ten degrees?
And Hezekiah said, They are come from a far country, even from Babylon. 20:15 And he said, What have they seen in thine house?
And he said, Is it not good, if peace and truth be in my days?
20:21 And Hezekiah slept with his fathers: and Manasseh his son reigned in his stead. 21:1 Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and reigned fifty and five years in Jerusalem.
These are the sons of Ishmael. 1:32 Now the sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she bare Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah.
And the sons of Jokshan; Sheba, and Dedan. 1:33 And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Henoch, and Abida, and Eldaah.
All these are the sons of Keturah. 1:34 And Abraham begat Isaac.
And the sons of Dishon; Amram, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran. 1:42 The sons of Ezer; Bilhan, and Zavan, and Jakan.
And Er, the firstborn of Judah, was evil in the sight of the LORD; and he slew him. 2:4 And Tamar his daughter in law bore him Pharez and Zerah.
And the sons of Ishi; Sheshan.
And the children of Sheshan; Ahlai. 2:32 And the sons of Jada the brother of Shammai; Jether, and Jonathan: and Jether died without children. 2:33 And the sons of Jonathan; Peleth, and Zaza.
These were the sons of Jerahmeel. 2:34 Now Sheshan had no sons, but daughters.
And God granted him that which he requested. 4:11 And Chelub the brother of Shuah begat Mehir, which was the father of Eshton. 4:12 And Eshton begat Bethrapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah the father of Irnahash.
These were their cities unto the reign of David. 4:32 And their villages were, Etam, and Ain, Rimmon, and Tochen, and Ashan, five cities: 4:33 And all their villages that were round about the same cities, unto Baal.
Nevertheless David took the castle of Zion, which is the city of David. 11:6 And David said, Whosoever smiteth the Jebusites first shall be chief and captain.
And David heard of it, and went out against them. 14:9 And the Philistines came and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim. 14:10 And David enquired of God, saying, Shall I go up against the Philistines?
And wilt thou deliver them into mine hand?
And the LORD said unto him, Go up; for I will deliver them into thine hand. 14:11 So they came up to Baalperazim; and David smote them there.
And David sent messengers to comfort him concerning his father.
But David tarried at Jerusalem.
Even so dealt David with all the cities of the children of Ammon.
21:4 Nevertheless the king's word prevailed against Joab.
Wherefore Joab departed, and went throughout all Israel, and came to Jerusalem. 21:5 And Joab gave the sum of the number of the people unto David.
And who then is willing to consecrate his service this day unto the LORD?
And the people departed. 10:6 And king Rehoboam took counsel with the old men that had stood before Solomon his father while he yet lived, saying, What counsel give ye me to return answer to this people?
His mother's name also was Michaiah the daughter of Uriel of Gibeah.
Herein thou hast done foolishly: therefore from henceforth thou shalt have wars. 16:10 Then Asa was wroth with the seer, and put him in a prison house; for he was in a rage with him because of this thing.
And they said, Go up; for God will deliver it into the king's hand. 18:6 But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of the LORD besides, that we might enquire of him?
And one spake saying after this manner, and another saying after that manner. 18:20 Then there came out a spirit, and stood before the LORD, and said, I will entice him.
And the LORD said unto him, Wherewith?
18:21 And he said, I will go out, and be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.
20:7 Art not thou our God, who didst drive out the inhabitants of this land before thy people Israel, and gavest it to the seed of Abraham thy friend for ever?
And the ships were broken, that they were not able to go to Tarshish. 21:1 Now Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David.
So Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah reigned. 22:2 Forty and two years old was Ahaziah when he began to reign, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem.
And Amaziah his son reigned in his stead. 25:1 Amaziah was twenty and five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem.
25:16 And it came to pass, as he talked with him, that the king said unto him, Art thou made of the king's counsel? forbear; why shouldest thou be smitten?
And the children of Ammon gave him the same year an hundred talents of silver, and ten thousand measures of wheat, and ten thousand of barley.
32:12 Hath not the same Hezekiah taken away his high places and his altars, and commanded Judah and Jerusalem, saying, Ye shall worship before one altar, and burn incense upon it?
32:13 Know ye not what I and my fathers have done unto all the people of other lands? were the gods of the nations of those lands any ways able to deliver their lands out of mine hand?
32:14 Who was there among all the gods of those nations that my fathers utterly destroyed, that could deliver his people out of mine hand, that your God should be able to deliver you out of mine hand?
So he returned with shame of face to his own land.
Who is there among you of all his people?
5:4 Then said we unto them after this manner, What are the names of the men that make this building?
2:4 Then the king said unto me, For what dost thou make request?
And the king granted me, according to the good hand of my God upon me. 2:9 Then I came to the governors beyond the river, and gave them the king's letters.
And they said, Let us rise up and build.
And next unto them repaired Meshullam the son of Berechiah, the son of Meshezabeel.
And all the congregation said, Amen, and praised the LORD.
And there was very great gladness. 8:18 Also day by day, from the first day unto the last day, he read in the book of the law of God.
Then said the king's servants that ministered unto him, There is nothing done for him. 6:4 And the king said, Who is in the court?
And the king said, Let him come in. 6:6 So Haman came in. And the king said unto him, What shall be done unto the man whom the king delighteth to honour?
Now Haman thought in his heart, To whom would the king delight to do honour more than to myself?
But Haman hasted to his house mourning, and having his head covered. 6:13 And Haman told Zeresh his wife and all his friends every thing that had befallen him.
Then said the king, Will he force the queen also before me in the house?
Then the king said, Hang him thereon. 7:10 So they hanged Haman on the gallows that he had prepared for Mordecai.
Then was the king's wrath pacified. 8:1 On that day did the king Ahasuerus give the house of Haman the Jews' enemy unto Esther the queen.
And Mordecai came before the king; for Esther had told what he was unto her. 8:2 And the king took off his ring, which he had taken from Haman, and gave it unto Mordecai.
Thus did Job continually. 1:6 Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the LORD, and Satan came also among them. 1:7 And the LORD said unto Satan, Whence comest thou?
1:9 Then Satan answered the LORD, and said, Doth Job fear God for nought?
What? shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil?
3:12 Why did the knees prevent me? or why the breasts that I should suck?
4:7 Remember, I pray thee, who ever perished, being innocent? or where were the righteous cut off?
4:18 Behold, he put no trust in his servants; and his angels he charged with folly: 4:19 How much less in them that dwell in houses of clay, whose foundation is in the dust, which are crushed before the moth?
6:6 Can that which is unsavoury be eaten without salt? or is there any taste in the white of an egg?
6:7 The things that my soul refused to touch are as my sorrowful meat. 6:8 Oh that I might have my request; and that God would grant me the thing that I long for!
6:9 Even that it would please God to destroy me; that he would let loose his hand, and cut me off!
6:12 Is my strength the strength of stones? or is my flesh of brass?
6:13 Is not my help in me? and is wisdom driven quite from me?
6:23 Or, Deliver me from the enemy's hand? or, Redeem me from the hand of the mighty?
7:1 Is there not an appointed time to man upon earth? are not his days also like the days of an hireling?
7:18 And that thou shouldest visit him every morning, and try him every moment?
7:19 How long wilt thou not depart from me, nor let me alone till I swallow down my spittle?
7:20 I have sinned; what shall I do unto thee, O thou preserver of men? why hast thou set me as a mark against thee, so that I am a burden to myself?
8:3 Doth God pervert judgment? or doth the Almighty pervert justice?
8:11 Can the rush grow up without mire? can the flag grow without water?
9:3 If he will contend with him, he cannot answer him one of a thousand. 9:4 He is wise in heart, and mighty in strength: who hath hardened himself against him, and hath prospered?
9:13 If God will not withdraw his anger, the proud helpers do stoop under him. 9:14 How much less shall I answer him, and choose out my words to reason with him?
10:4 Hast thou eyes of flesh? or seest thou as man seeth?
10:5 Are thy days as the days of man? are thy years as man's days, 10:6 That thou enquirest after mine iniquity, and searchest after my sin?
10:10 Hast thou not poured me out as milk, and curdled me like cheese?
I am full of confusion; therefore see thou mine affliction; 10:16 For it increaseth.
Oh that I had given up the ghost, and no eye had seen me!
11:3 Should thy lies make men hold their peace? and when thou mockest, shall no man make thee ashamed?
Know therefore that God exacteth of thee less than thine iniquity deserveth. 11:7 Canst thou by searching find out God? canst thou find out the Almighty unto perfection?
11:8 It is as high as heaven; what canst thou do? deeper than hell; what canst thou know?
11:9 The measure thereof is longer than the earth, and broader than the sea. 11:10 If he cut off, and shut up, or gather together, then who can hinder him?
11:11 For he knoweth vain men: he seeth wickedness also; will he not then consider it?
12:10 In whose hand is the soul of every living thing, and the breath of all mankind. 12:11 Doth not the ear try words? and the mouth taste his meat?
13:9 Is it good that he should search you out? or as one man mocketh another, do ye so mock him?
13:10 He will surely reprove you, if ye do secretly accept persons. 13:11 Shall not his excellency make you afraid? and his dread fall upon you?
15:3 Should he reason with unprofitable talk? or with speeches wherewith he can do no good?
15:8 Hast thou heard the secret of God? and dost thou restrain wisdom to thyself?
15:9 What knowest thou, that we know not? what understandest thou, which is not in us?
15:10 With us are both the grayheaded and very aged men, much elder than thy father. 15:11 Are the consolations of God small with thee? is there any secret thing with thee?
15:12 Why doth thine heart carry thee away? and what do thy eyes wink at, 15:13 That thou turnest thy spirit against God, and lettest such words go out of thy mouth?
15:14 What is man, that he should be clean? and he which is born of a woman, that he should be righteous?
15:15 Behold, he putteth no trust in his saints; yea, the heavens are not clean in his sight. 15:16 How much more abominable and filthy is man, which drinketh iniquity like water?
17:3 Lay down now, put me in a surety with thee; who is he that will strike hands with me?
19:23 Oh that my words were now written! oh that they were printed in a book!
19:24 That they were graven with an iron pen and lead in the rock for ever!
20:6 Though his excellency mount up to the heavens, and his head reach unto the clouds; 20:7 Yet he shall perish for ever like his own dung: they which have seen him shall say, Where is he?
21:16 Lo, their good is not in their hand: the counsel of the wicked is far from me. 21:17 How oft is the candle of the wicked put out! and how oft cometh their destruction upon them!
22:1 Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said, 22:2 Can a man be profitable unto God, as he that is wise may be profitable unto himself?
22:3 Is it any pleasure to the Almighty, that thou art righteous? or is it gain to him, that thou makest thy ways perfect?
22:4 Will he reprove thee for fear of thee? will he enter with thee into judgment?
22:5 Is not thy wickedness great? and thine iniquities infinite?
22:13 And thou sayest, How doth God know? can he judge through the dark cloud?
25:1 Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said, 25:2 Dominion and fear are with him, he maketh peace in his high places. 25:3 Is there any number of his armies? and upon whom doth not his light arise?
25:4 How then can man be justified with God? or how can he be clean that is born of a woman?
25:5 Behold even to the moon, and it shineth not; yea, the stars are not pure in his sight. 25:6 How much less man, that is a worm? and the son of man, which is a worm?
26:4 To whom hast thou uttered words? and whose spirit came from thee?
27:9 Will God hear his cry when trouble cometh upon him?
27:10 Will he delight himself in the Almighty? will he always call upon God?
27:11 I will teach you by the hand of God: that which is with the Almighty will I not conceal. 27:12 Behold, all ye yourselves have seen it; why then are ye thus altogether vain?
31:2 For what portion of God is there from above? and what inheritance of the Almighty from on high?
31:3 Is not destruction to the wicked? and a strange punishment to the workers of iniquity?
31:4 Doth not he see my ways, and count all my steps?
34:18 Is it fit to say to a king, Thou art wicked? and to princes, Ye are ungodly?
35:3 For thou saidst, What advantage will it be unto thee? and, What profit shall I have, if I be cleansed from my sin?
35:7 If thou be righteous, what givest thou him? or what receiveth he of thine hand?
36:23 Who hath enjoined him his way? or who can say, Thou hast wrought iniquity?
37:16 Dost thou know the balancings of the clouds, the wondrous works of him which is perfect in knowledge? 37:17 How thy garments are warm, when he quieteth the earth by the south wind?
37:18 Hast thou with him spread out the sky, which is strong, and as a molten looking glass?
38:12 Hast thou commanded the morning since thy days; and caused the dayspring to know his place; 38:13 That it might take hold of the ends of the earth, that the wicked might be shaken out of it?
38:21 Knowest thou it, because thou wast then born? or because the number of thy days is great?
38:22 Hast thou entered into the treasures of the snow? or hast thou seen the treasures of the hail, 38:23 Which I have reserved against the time of trouble, against the day of battle and war?
38:24 By what way is the light parted, which scattereth the east wind upon the earth?
38:28 Hath the rain a father? or who hath begotten the drops of dew?
38:29 Out of whose womb came the ice? and the hoary frost of heaven, who hath gendered it?
38:30 The waters are hid as with a stone, and the face of the deep is frozen. 38:31 Canst thou bind the sweet influences of Pleiades, or loose the bands of Orion?
38:32 Canst thou bring forth Mazzaroth in his season? or canst thou guide Arcturus with his sons?
38:33 Knowest thou the ordinances of heaven? canst thou set the dominion thereof in the earth?
38:34 Canst thou lift up thy voice to the clouds, that abundance of waters may cover thee?
38:35 Canst thou send lightnings, that they may go and say unto thee, Here we are?
38:36 Who hath put wisdom in the inward parts? or who hath given understanding to the heart?
38:37 Who can number the clouds in wisdom? or who can stay the bottles of heaven, 38:38 When the dust groweth into hardness, and the clods cleave fast together?
38:39 Wilt thou hunt the prey for the lion? or fill the appetite of the young lions, 38:40 When they couch in their dens, and abide in the covert to lie in wait?
39:2 Canst thou number the months that they fulfil? or knowest thou the time when they bring forth?
39:11 Wilt thou trust him, because his strength is great? or wilt thou leave thy labour to him?
39:12 Wilt thou believe him, that he will bring home thy seed, and gather it into thy barn?
39:13 Gavest thou the goodly wings unto the peacocks? or wings and feathers unto the ostrich?
39:27 Doth the eagle mount up at thy command, and make her nest on high?
40:9 Hast thou an arm like God? or canst thou thunder with a voice like him?
41:2 Canst thou put an hook into his nose? or bore his jaw through with a thorn?
41:3 Will he make many supplications unto thee? will he speak soft words unto thee?
41:4 Will he make a covenant with thee? wilt thou take him for a servant for ever?
41:5 Wilt thou play with him as with a bird? or wilt thou bind him for thy maidens?
41:6 Shall the companions make a banquet of him? shall they part him among the merchants?
41:7 Canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons? or his head with fish spears?
41:8 Lay thine hand upon him, remember the battle, do no more. 41:9 Behold, the hope of him is in vain: shall not one be cast down even at the sight of him?
41:10 None is so fierce that dare stir him up: who then is able to stand before me?
Selah. 4:5 Offer the sacrifices of righteousness, and put your trust in the LORD. 4:6 There be many that say, Who will shew us any good?
He that sweareth to his own hurt, and changeth not. 15:5 He that putteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward against the innocent.
Selah. 24:7 Lift up your heads, O ye gates; and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in. 24:8 Who is this King of glory?
The LORD strong and mighty, the LORD mighty in battle. 24:9 Lift up your heads, O ye gates; even lift them up, ye everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in. 24:10 Who is this King of glory?
The LORD of hosts, he is the King of glory.
Selah. 32:5 I acknowledge my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the LORD; and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin.
O when wilt thou come unto me?
Bless thou the LORD, O my soul.
Praise ye the LORD. 106:1 Praise ye the LORD.
Praise ye the LORD. 117:1 O praise the LORD, all ye nations: praise him, all ye people. 117:2 For his merciful kindness is great toward us: and the truth of the LORD endureth for ever.
Praise ye the LORD. 148:1 Praise ye the LORD.
Praise ye the LORD. 149:1 Praise ye the LORD.
Praise ye the LORD. 150:1 Praise ye the LORD.
24:23 These things also belong to the wise.
This also is vanity and a great evil. 2:22 For what hath man of all his labour, and of the vexation of his heart, wherein he hath laboured under the sun?
2:23 For all his days are sorrows, and his travail grief; yea, his heart taketh not rest in the night.
This is also vanity. 2:24 There is nothing better for a man, than that he should eat and drink, and that he should make his soul enjoy good in his labour.
3:22 Wherefore I perceive that there is nothing better, than that a man should rejoice in his own works; for that is his portion: for who shall bring him to see what shall be after him?
6:7 All the labour of man is for his mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled. 6:8 For what hath the wise more than the fool? what hath the poor, that knoweth to walk before the living?
6:12 For who knoweth what is good for man in this life, all the days of his vain life which he spendeth as a shadow? for who can tell a man what shall be after him under the sun?
7:17 Be not over much wicked, neither be thou foolish: why shouldest thou die before thy time?
10:15 The labour of the foolish wearieth every one of them, because he knoweth not how to go to the city. 10:16 Woe to thee, O land, when thy king is a child, and thy princes eat in the morning!
10:17 Blessed art thou, O land, when thy king is the son of nobles, and thy princes eat in due season, for strength, and not for drunkenness!
I have washed my feet; how shall I defile them?
What will ye see in the Shulamite?
5:20 Woe unto them that call evil good, and good evil; that put darkness for light, and light for darkness; that put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter!
5:21 Woe unto them that are wise in their own eyes, and prudent in their own sight!
5:22 Woe unto them that are mighty to drink wine, and men of strength to mingle strong drink: 5:23 Which justify the wicked for reward, and take away the righteousness of the righteous from him!
10:4 Without me they shall bow down under the prisoners, and they shall fall under the slain.
10:9 Is not Calno as Carchemish? is not Hamath as Arpad? is not Samaria as Damascus?
That the LORD hath founded Zion, and the poor of his people shall trust in it. 15:1 The burden of Moab.
21:1 The burden of the desert of the sea.
As whirlwinds in the south pass through; so it cometh from the desert, from a terrible land. 21:2 A grievous vision is declared unto me; the treacherous dealer dealeth treacherously, and the spoiler spoileth.
He calleth to me out of Seir, Watchman, what of the night?
Watchman, what of the night?
21:12 The watchman said, The morning cometh, and also the night: if ye will enquire, enquire ye: return, come. 21:13 The burden upon Arabia.
What aileth thee now, that thou art wholly gone up to the housetops?
28:25 When he hath made plain the face thereof, doth he not cast abroad the fitches, and scatter the cummin, and cast in the principal wheat and the appointed barley and the rie in their place?
29:17 Is it not yet a very little while, and Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field shall be esteemed as a forest?
Who among us shall dwell with the devouring fire? who among us shall dwell with everlasting burnings?
Where is the scribe? where is the receiver? where is he that counted the towers?
36:5 I say, sayest thou, (but they are but vain words) I have counsel and strength for war: now on whom dost thou trust, that thou rebellest against me?
36:19 Where are the gods of Hamath and Arphad? where are the gods of Sepharvaim? and have they delivered Samaria out of my hand?
36:20 Who are they among all the gods of these lands, that have delivered their land out of my hand, that the LORD should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?
37:13 Where is the king of Hamath, and the king of Arphad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivah?
And Hezekiah said, They are come from a far country unto me, even from Babylon. 39:4 Then said he, What have they seen in thine house?
And he said, What shall I cry?
40:13 Who hath directed the Spirit of the LORD, or being his counsellor hath taught him?
40:14 With whom took he counsel, and who instructed him, and taught him in the path of judgment, and taught him knowledge, and shewed to him the way of understanding?
44:20 He feedeth on ashes: a deceived heart hath turned him aside, that he cannot deliver his soul, nor say, Is there not a lie in my right hand?
Let the potsherd strive with the potsherds of the earth.
Shall the clay say to him that fashioneth it, What makest thou? or thy work, He hath no hands?
45:10 Woe unto him that saith unto his father, What begettest thou? or to the woman, What hast thou brought forth?
Behold, I was left alone; these, where had they been?
Behold, for your iniquities have ye sold yourselves, and for your transgressions is your mother put away. 50:2 Wherefore, when I came, was there no man? when I called, was there none to answer?
Art thou not it that hath cut Rahab, and wounded the dragon?
51:10 Art thou not it which hath dried the sea, the waters of the great deep; that hath made the depths of the sea a way for the ransomed to pass over?
57:6 Among the smooth stones of the stream is thy portion; they, they are thy lot: even to them hast thou poured a drink offering, thou hast offered a meat offering.
Should I receive comfort in these?
58:6 Is not this the fast that I have chosen? to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke?
I that speak in righteousness, mighty to save. 63:2 Wherefore art thou red in thine apparel, and thy garments like him that treadeth in the winefat?
63:12 That led them by the right hand of Moses with his glorious arm, dividing the water before them, to make himself an everlasting name?
63:13 That led them through the deep, as an horse in the wilderness, that they should not stumble?
2:18 And now what hast thou to do in the way of Egypt, to drink the waters of Sihor? or what hast thou to do in the way of Assyria, to drink the waters of the river?
Have I been a wilderness unto Israel? a land of darkness? wherefore say my people, We are lords; we will come no more unto thee?
3:5 Will he reserve his anger for ever? will he keep it to the end?
Woe unto us! for we are spoiled. 4:14 O Jerusalem, wash thine heart from wickedness, that thou mayest be saved.
How long shall thy vain thoughts lodge within thee?
But they said, We will not walk therein. 6:17 Also I set watchmen over you, saying, Hearken to the sound of the trumpet.
7:11 Is this house, which is called by my name, become a den of robbers in your eyes?
Why have they provoked me to anger with their graven images, and with strange vanities?
9:1 Oh that my head were waters, and mine eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people!
13:21 What wilt thou say when he shall punish thee? for thou hast taught them to be captains, and as chief over thee: shall not sorrows take thee, as a woman in travail?
13:22 And if thou say in thine heart, Wherefore come these things upon me?
Woe unto thee, O Jerusalem! wilt thou not be made clean? when shall it once be?
But his word was in mine heart as a burning fire shut up in my bones, and I was weary with forbearing, and I could not stay. 20:10 For I heard the defaming of many, fear on every side.
Report, say they, and we will report it.
What is the chaff to the wheat? saith the LORD. 23:29 Is not my word like as a fire? saith the LORD; and like a hammer that breaketh the rock in pieces?
37:19 Where are now your prophets which prophesied unto you, saying, The king of Babylon shall not come against you, nor against this land?
Thus far is the judgment of Moab. 49:1 Concerning the Ammonites, thus saith the LORD; Hath Israel no sons? hath he no heir? why then doth their king inherit Gad, and his people dwell in his cities?
Thus far are the words of Jeremiah. 52:1 Zedekiah was one and twenty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem.
Shall the women eat their fruit, and children of a span long? shall the priest and the prophet be slain in the sanctuary of the Lord?
3:38 Out of the mouth of the most High proceedeth not evil and good?
3:39 Wherefore doth a living man complain, a man for the punishment of his sins?
This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the LORD.
Then they began at the ancient men which were before the house. 9:7 And he said unto them, Defile the house, and fill the courts with the slain: go ye forth.
Then fell I down upon my face, and cried with a loud voice, and said, Ah Lord GOD! wilt thou make a full end of the remnant of Israel?
Will ye hunt the souls of my people, and will ye save the souls alive that come unto you?
Is it meet for any work?
15:5 Behold, when it was whole, it was meet for no work: how much less shall it be meet yet for any work, when the fire hath devoured it, and it is burned?
Is this of thy whoredoms a small matter, 16:21 That thou hast slain my children, and delivered them to cause them to pass through the fire for them?
Shall he prosper? shall he escape that doeth such things? or shall he break the covenant, and be delivered?
When the son hath done that which is lawful and right, and hath kept all my statutes, and hath done them, he shall surely live. 18:20 The soul that sinneth, it shall die.
Hear now, O house of Israel; Is not my way equal? are not your ways unequal?
20:31 For when ye offer your gifts, when ye make your sons to pass through the fire, ye pollute yourselves with all your idols, even unto this day: and shall I be enquired of by you, O house of Israel?
33:26 Ye stand upon your sword, ye work abomination, and ye defile every one his neighbour's wife: and shall ye possess the land?
And this is the north side. 47:18 And the east side ye shall measure from Hauran, and from Damascus, and from Gilead, and from the land of Israel by Jordan, from the border unto the east sea.
And this is the east side. 47:19 And the south side southward, from Tamar even to the waters of strife in Kadesh, the river to the great sea.
And this is the south side southward. 47:20 The west side also shall be the great sea from the border, till a man come over against Hamath.
Then they brought these men before the king. 3:14 Nebuchadnezzar spake and said unto them, Is it true, O Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, do not ye serve my gods, nor worship the golden image which I have set up?
The king spake, and said, Belteshazzar, let not the dream, or the interpretation thereof, trouble thee.
And the king spake and said unto Daniel, Art thou that Daniel, which art of the children of the captivity of Judah, whom the king my father brought out of Jewry?
I have heard him, and observed him: I am like a green fir tree.
3:4 Will a lion roar in the forest, when he hath no prey? will a young lion cry out of his den, if he have taken nothing?
3:5 Can a bird fall in a snare upon the earth, where no gin is for him? shall one take up a snare from the earth, and have taken nothing at all?
3:6 Shall a trumpet be blown in the city, and the people not be afraid? shall there be evil in a city, and the LORD hath not done it?
3:7 Surely the Lord GOD will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets. 3:8 The lion hath roared, who will not fear? the Lord GOD hath spoken, who can but prophesy?
And I said, A plumbline.
And I said, A basket of summer fruit.
8:6 That we may buy the poor for silver, and the needy for a pair of shoes; yea, and sell the refuse of the wheat?
1:6 How are the things of Esau searched out! how are his hidden things sought up!
1:9 And he said unto them, I am an Hebrew; and I fear the LORD, the God of heaven, which hath made the sea and the dry land. 1:10 Then were the men exceedingly afraid, and said unto him.
Why hast thou done this?
What is the transgression of Jacob? is it not Samaria? and what are the high places of Judah? are they not Jerusalem?
6:7 Will the LORD be pleased with thousands of rams, or with ten thousands of rivers of oil? shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?
6:8 He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the LORD require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?
6:11 Shall I count them pure with the wicked balances, and with the bag of deceitful weights?
3:8 Art thou better than populous No, that was situate among the rivers, that had the waters round about it, whose rampart was the sea, and her wall was from the sea?
1:14 And makest men as the fishes of the sea, as the creeping things, that have no ruler over them?
2:7 Shall they not rise up suddenly that shall bite thee, and awake that shall vex thee, and thou shalt be for booties unto them?
2:13 Behold, is it not of the LORD of hosts that the people shall labour in the very fire, and the people shall weary themselves for very vanity?
3:9 Thy bow was made quite naked, according to the oaths of the tribes, even thy word. Selah.
Why? saith the LORD of hosts.
And the priests answered and said, No. 2:13 Then said Haggai, If one that is unclean by a dead body touch any of these, shall it be unclean?
And he answered me, These are the horns which have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem. 1:20 And the LORD shewed me four carpenters. 1:21 Then said I, What come these to do?
3:3 Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments, and stood before the angel. 3:4 And he answered and spake unto those that stood before him, saying, Take away the filthy garments from him.
And unto him he said, Behold, I have caused thine iniquity to pass from thee, and I will clothe thee with change of raiment. 3:5 And I said, Let them set a fair mitre upon his head.
So they set a fair mitre upon his head, and clothed him with garments.
4:5 Then the angel that talked with me answered and said unto me, Knowest thou not what these be?
4:12 And I answered again, and said unto him, What be these two olive branches which through the two golden pipes empty the golden oil out of themselves?
4:13 And he answered me and said, Knowest thou not what these be?
And he said, This is an ephah that goeth forth.
So they weighed for my price thirty pieces of silver. 11:13 And the LORD said unto me, Cast it unto the potter: a goodly price that I was prised at of them.
Yet ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us?
And ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name?
1:7 Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar; and ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee?
Because the LORD hath been witness between thee and the wife of thy youth, against whom thou hast dealt treacherously: yet is she thy companion, and the wife of thy covenant. 2:15 And did not he make one?
Yet had he the residue of the spirit. And wherefore one?
That he might seek a godly seed.
Yet ye say, Wherein have we wearied him?
When ye say, Every one that doeth evil is good in the sight of the LORD, and he delighteth in them; or, Where is the God of judgment?
Return unto me, and I will return unto you, saith the LORD of hosts.
But ye said, Wherein shall we return?
3:8 Will a man rob God?
Yet ye have robbed me.
But ye say, Wherein have we robbed thee?
Yet ye say, What have we spoken so much against thee?
3:14 Ye have said, It is vain to serve God: and what profit is it that we have kept his ordinance, and that we have walked mournfully before the LORD of hosts?
5:47 And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? do not even the publicans so?
6:24 No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other.
Ye cannot serve God and mammon. 6:25 Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on.
Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment?
6:26 Behold the fowls of the air: for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth them.
Are ye not much better than they?
6:27 Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his stature?
6:28 And why take ye thought for raiment?
6:31 Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed?
7:4 Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the mote out of thine eye; and, behold, a beam is in thine own eye?
7:10 Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent?
7:11 If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him?
Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?
9:5 For whether is easier, to say, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say, Arise, and walk?
If they have called the master of the house Beelzebub, how much more shall they call them of his household?
A reed shaken with the wind?
11:8 But what went ye out for to see?
A man clothed in soft raiment? behold, they that wear soft clothing are in kings' houses. 11:9 But what went ye out for to see?
12:12 How much then is a man better than a sheep?
Wherefore it is lawful to do well on the sabbath days. 12:13 Then saith he to the man, Stretch forth thine hand.
13:28 He said unto them, An enemy hath done this.
The servants said unto him, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them up?
13:55 Is not this the carpenter's son? is not his mother called Mary? and his brethren, James, and Joses, and Simon, and Judas?
13:56 And his sisters, are they not all with us?
Whence then hath this man all these things? 13:57 And they were offended in him.
15:13 But he answered and said, Every plant, which my heavenly Father hath not planted, shall be rooted up. 15:14 Let them alone: they be blind leaders of the blind.
And if the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch. 15:15 Then answered Peter and said unto him, Declare unto us this parable. 15:16 And Jesus said, Are ye also yet without understanding?
15:17 Do not ye yet understand, that whatsoever entereth in at the mouth goeth into the belly, and is cast out into the draught?
15:34 And Jesus saith unto them, How many loaves have ye?
O ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky; but can ye not discern the signs of the times?
16:4 A wicked and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given unto it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas.
16:9 Do ye not yet understand, neither remember the five loaves of the five thousand, and how many baskets ye took up?
16:10 Neither the seven loaves of the four thousand, and how many baskets ye took up?
16:11 How is it that ye do not understand that I spake it not to you concerning bread, that ye should beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees?
And when he was come into the house, Jesus prevented him, saying, What thinkest thou, Simon? of whom do the kings of the earth take custom or tribute? of their own children, or of strangers?
17:26 Peter saith unto him, Of strangers.
19:6 Wherefore they are no more twain, but one flesh.
What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder. 19:7 They say unto him, Why did Moses then command to give a writing of divorcement, and to put her away?
19:17 And he said unto him, Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, that is, God: but if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments. 19:18 He saith unto him, Which?
20:7 They say unto him, Because no man hath hired us.
20:14 Take that thine is, and go thy way: I will give unto this last, even as unto thee. 20:15 Is it not lawful for me to do what I will with mine own?
Is thine eye evil, because I am good?
She saith unto him, Grant that these my two sons may sit, the one on thy right hand, and the other on the left, in thy kingdom. 20:22 But Jesus answered and said, Ye know not what ye ask.
Are ye able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of, and to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?
And Jesus saith unto them, Yea; have ye never read, Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings thou hast perfected praise?
And presently the fig tree withered away. 21:20 And when the disciples saw it, they marvelled, saying, How soon is the fig tree withered away!
And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven; he will say unto us, Why did ye not then believe him?
21:26 But if we shall say, Of men; we fear the people; for all hold John as a prophet. 21:27 And they answered Jesus, and said, We cannot tell.
And he said unto them, Neither tell I you by what authority I do these things. 21:28 But what think ye?
And he answered and said, I go, sir: and went not. 21:31 Whether of them twain did the will of his father?
They say unto him, The first.
Is it lawful to give tribute unto Caesar, or not?
22:18 But Jesus perceived their wickedness, and said, Why tempt ye me, ye hypocrites?
22:19 Shew me the tribute money.
And they brought unto him a penny. 22:20 And he saith unto them, Whose is this image and superscription? 22:21 They say unto him, Caesar's.
22:45 If David then call him Lord, how is he his son?
23:17 Ye fools and blind: for whether is greater, the gold, or the temple that sanctifieth the gold?
25:38 When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? or naked, and clothed thee?
25:39 Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee?
26:54 But how then shall the scriptures be fulfilled, that thus it must be?
26:55 In that same hour said Jesus to the multitudes, Are ye come out as against a thief with swords and staves for to take me?
I sat daily with you teaching in the temple, and ye laid no hold on me. 26:56 But all this was done, that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled.
And Jesus said unto him, Thou sayest. 27:12 And when he was accused of the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing. 27:13 Then said Pilate unto him, Hearest thou not how many things they witness against thee?
Barabbas, or Jesus which is called Christ?
They said, Barabbas. 27:22 Pilate saith unto them, What shall I do then with Jesus which is called Christ?
They all say unto him, Let him be crucified. 27:23 And the governor said, Why, what evil hath he done?
If thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross. 27:41 Likewise also the chief priests mocking him, with the scribes and elders, said, 27:42 He saved others; himself he cannot save.
2:8 And immediately when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said unto them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts?
2:9 Whether is it easier to say to the sick of the palsy, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say, Arise, and take up thy bed, and walk?
2:25 And he said unto them, Have ye never read what David did, when he had need, and was an hungred, he, and they that were with him?
But they held their peace. 3:5 And when he had looked round about on them with anger, being grieved for the hardness of their hearts, he saith unto the man, Stretch forth thine hand.
4:39 And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace, be still.
And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. 4:40 And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? how is it that ye have no faith?
4:41 And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, What manner of man is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?
I adjure thee by God, that thou torment me not. 5:8 For he said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit. 5:9 And he asked him, What is thy name?
5:31 And his disciples said unto him, Thou seest the multitude thronging thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me?
And they say unto him, Shall we go and buy two hundred pennyworth of bread, and give them to eat?
6:38 He saith unto them, How many loaves have ye? go and see.
Do ye not perceive, that whatsoever thing from without entereth into the man, it cannot defile him; 7:19 Because it entereth not into his heart, but into the belly, and goeth out into the draught, purging all meats?
8:5 And he asked them, How many loaves have ye?
8:18 Having eyes, see ye not? and having ears, hear ye not? and do ye not remember?
8:19 When I brake the five loaves among five thousand, how many baskets full of fragments took ye up?
They say unto him, Twelve. 8:20 And when the seven among four thousand, how many baskets full of fragments took ye up?
And they said, Seven. 8:21 And he said unto them, How is it that ye do not understand?
8:28 And they answered, John the Baptist; but some say, Elias; and others, One of the prophets. 8:29 And he saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am?
8:37 Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?
But Jesus answereth again, and saith unto them, Children, how hard is it for them that trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God!
10:39 And they said unto him, We can.
11:32 But if we shall say, Of men; they feared the people: for all men counted John, that he was a prophet indeed. 11:33 And they answered and said unto Jesus, We cannot tell.
And Jesus answering saith unto them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things. 12:1 And he began to speak unto them by parables.
12:15 Shall we give, or shall we not give?
But he, knowing their hypocrisy, said unto them, Why tempt ye me? bring me a penny, that I may see it. 12:16 And they brought it.
And he saith unto them, Whose is this image and superscription?
And they said unto him, Caesar's. 12:17 And Jesus answering said unto them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's.
And no man after that durst ask him any question. 12:35 And Jesus answered and said, while he taught in the temple, How say the scribes that Christ is the son of David?
14:5 For it might have been sold for more than three hundred pence, and have been given to the poor.
14:38 Watch ye and pray, lest ye enter into temptation.
14:61 But he held his peace, and answered nothing.
Again the high priest asked him, and said unto him, Art thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?
14:64 Ye have heard the blasphemy: what think ye?
And he went out into the porch; and the cock crew. 14:69 And a maid saw him again, and began to say to them that stood by, This is one of them. 14:70 And he denied it again.
And Peter called to mind the word that Jesus said unto him, Before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice.
15:13 And they cried out again, Crucify him. 15:14 Then Pilate said unto them, Why, what evil hath he done?
3:13 And he said unto them, Exact no more than that which is appointed you. 3:14 And the soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying, And what shall we do?
And they said, Is not this Joseph's son?
Who can forgive sins, but God alone? 5:22 But when Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answering said unto them, What reason ye in your hearts?
5:23 Whether is easier, to say, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say, Rise up and walk?
And he arose and stood forth. 6:9 Then said Jesus unto them, I will ask you one thing; Is it lawful on the sabbath days to do good, or to do evil? to save life, or to destroy it?
6:10 And looking round about upon them all, he said unto the man, Stretch forth thy hand.
For with the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to you again. 6:39 And he spake a parable unto them, Can the blind lead the blind? shall they not both fall into the ditch?
6:42 Either how canst thou say to thy brother, Brother, let me pull out the mote that is in thine eye, when thou thyself beholdest not the beam that is in thine own eye?
7:25 But what went ye out for to see?
A man clothed in soft raiment?
Behold, they which are gorgeously apparelled, and live delicately, are in kings' courts. 7:26 But what went ye out for to see?
7:43 Simon answered and said, I suppose that he, to whom he forgave most. And he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged. 7:44 And he turned to the woman, and said unto Simon, Seest thou this woman?
Then he arose, and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water: and they ceased, and there was a calm. 8:25 And he said unto them, Where is your faith?
When all denied, Peter and they that were with him said, Master, the multitude throng thee and press thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me?
And he desired to see him. 9:10 And the apostles, when they were returned, told him all that they had done.
And they said, We have no more but five loaves and two fishes; except we should go and buy meat for all this people. 9:14 For they were about five thousand men.
9:55 But he turned, and rebuked them, and said, Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of. 9:56 For the Son of man is not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them.
10:26 He said unto him, What is written in the law? how readest thou?
10:37 And he said, He that shewed mercy on him.
Thy will be done, as in heaven, so in earth. 11:3 Give us day by day our daily bread. 11:4 And forgive us our sins; for we also forgive every one that is indebted to us.
11:12 Or if he shall ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion?
11:13 If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?
11:14 And he was casting out a devil, and it was dumb.
12:7 But even the very hairs of your head are all numbered.
12:25 And which of you with taking thought can add to his stature one cubit?
12:26 If ye then be not able to do that thing which is least, why take ye thought for the rest?
12:42 And the Lord said, Who then is that faithful and wise steward, whom his lord shall make ruler over his household, to give them their portion of meat in due season?
12:50 But I have a baptism to be baptized with; and how am I straitened till it be accomplished!
12:51 Suppose ye that I am come to give peace on earth?
12:57 Yea, and why even of yourselves judge ye not what is right?
13:16 And ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound, lo, these eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the sabbath day?
14:4 And they held their peace.
14:35 It is neither fit for the land, nor yet for the dunghill; but men cast it out.
16:6 And he said, An hundred measures of oil.
And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and sit down quickly, and write fifty. 16:7 Then said he to another, And how much owest thou?
And he said, An hundred measures of wheat.
16:12 And if ye have not been faithful in that which is another man's, who shall give you that which is your own?
16:13 No servant can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other.
17:8 And will not rather say unto him, Make ready wherewith I may sup, and gird thyself, and serve me, till I have eaten and drunken; and afterward thou shalt eat and drink?
18:8 I tell you that he will avenge them speedily.
Nevertheless when the Son of man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth?
20:3 And he answered and said unto them, I will also ask you one thing; and answer me: 20:4 The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or of men?
20:5 And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven; he will say, Why then believed ye him not?
What therefore shall the lord of the vineyard do unto them?
20:16 He shall come and destroy these husbandmen, and shall give the vineyard to others.
And when they heard it, they said, God forbid. 20:17 And he beheld them, and said, What is this then that is written, The stone which the builders rejected, the same is become the head of the corner?
20:23 But he perceived their craftiness, and said unto them, Why tempt ye me?
20:24 Shew me a penny.
Whose image and superscription hath it?
And immediately, while he yet spake, the cock crew. 22:61 And the Lord turned, and looked upon Peter.
I have found no cause of death in him: I will therefore chastise him, and let him go. 23:23 And they were instant with loud voices, requiring that he might be crucified.
And they parted his raiment, and cast lots. 23:35 And the people stood beholding.
24:18 And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in these days?
24:19 And he said unto them, What things?
1:20 And he confessed, and denied not; but confessed, I am not the Christ. 1:21 And they asked him, What then?
And he saith, I am not.
And he answered, No. 1:22 Then said they unto him, Who art thou? that we may give an answer to them that sent us.
What sayest thou of thyself?
1:37 And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus. 1:38 Then Jesus turned, and saw them following, and saith unto them, What seek ye?
They said unto him, Rabbi, (which is to say, being interpreted, Master,) where dwellest thou?
1:39 He saith unto them, Come and see.
Philip saith unto him, Come and see. 1:47 Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and saith of him, Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile!
1:48 Nathanael saith unto him, Whence knowest thou me?
And they filled them up to the brim. 2:8 And he saith unto them, Draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the feast.
4:28 The woman then left her waterpot, and went her way into the city, and saith to the men, 4:29 Come, see a man, which told me all things that ever I did: is not this the Christ?
6:10 And Jesus said, Make the men sit down.
Now there was much grass in the place.
6:61 When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples murmured at it, he said unto them, Doth this offend you?
6:62 What and if ye shall see the Son of man ascend up where he was before?
6:63 It is the spirit that quickeneth; the flesh profiteth nothing: the words that I speak unto you, they are spirit, and they are life. 6:64 But there are some of you that believe not.
Why go ye about to kill me?
7:20 The people answered and said, Thou hast a devil: who goeth about to kill thee?
7:24 Judge not according to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment. 7:25 Then said some of them of Jerusalem, Is not this he, whom they seek to kill?
7:26 But, lo, he speaketh boldly, and they say nothing unto him.
7:36 What manner of saying is this that he said, Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me: and where I am, thither ye cannot come?
But some said, Shall Christ come out of Galilee?
7:42 Hath not the scripture said, That Christ cometh of the seed of David, and out of the town of Bethlehem, where David was?
7:46 The officers answered, Never man spake like this man. 7:47 Then answered them the Pharisees, Are ye also deceived?
7:48 Have any of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed on him?
7:52 They answered and said unto him, Art thou also of Galilee?
8:6 This they said, tempting him, that they might have to accuse him.
8:11 She said, No man, Lord.
He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him.
When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father of it. 8:45 And because I tell you the truth, ye believe me not. 8:46 Which of you convinceth me of sin?
And if I say the truth, why do ye not believe me?
9:9 Some said, This is he: others said, He is like him: but he said, I am he. 9:10 Therefore said they unto him, How were thine eyes opened?
He said unto them, He put clay upon mine eyes, and I washed, and do see. 9:16 Therefore said some of the Pharisees, This man is not of God, because he keepeth not the sabbath day.
Others said, How can a man that is a sinner do such miracles?
And there was a division among them. 9:17 They say unto the blind man again, What sayest thou of him, that he hath opened thine eyes?
9:27 He answered them, I have told you already, and ye did not hear: wherefore would ye hear it again? will ye also be his disciples?
And they cast him out. 9:35 Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and when he had found him, he said unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God?
9:36 He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him?
9:37 And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and it is he that talketh with thee. 9:38 And he said, Lord, I believe.
I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again.
This commandment have I received of my Father. 10:19 There was a division therefore again among the Jews for these sayings. 10:20 And many of them said, He hath a devil, and is mad; why hear ye him?
10:21 Others said, These are not the words of him that hath a devil.
Can a devil open the eyes of the blind?
11:9 Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day?
They said unto him, Lord, come and see. 11:35 Jesus wept. 11:36 Then said the Jews, Behold how he loved him!
11:37 And some of them said, Could not this man, which opened the eyes of the blind, have caused that even this man should not have died?
11:38 Jesus therefore again groaning in himself cometh to the grave.
It was a cave, and a stone lay upon it. 11:39 Jesus said, Take ye away the stone.
11:41 Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid.
Father, save me from this hour: but for this cause came I unto this hour. 12:28 Father, glorify thy name.
13:7 Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do thou knowest not now; but thou shalt know hereafter. 13:8 Peter saith unto him, Thou shalt never wash my feet.
And when he had dipped the sop, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. 13:27 And after the sop Satan entered into him.
Jesus answered him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now; but thou shalt follow me afterwards. 13:37 Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now?
Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. 14:28 Ye have heard how I said unto you, I go away, and come again unto you.
And these things I said not unto you at the beginning, because I was with you. 16:5 But now I go my way to him that sent me; and none of you asketh me, Whither goest thou?
18:5 They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth.
The servant's name was Malchus. 18:11 Then said Jesus unto Peter, Put up thy sword into the sheath: the cup which my Father hath given me, shall I not drink it?
18:23 Jesus answered him, If I have spoken evil, bear witness of the evil: but if well, why smitest thou me?
18:24 Now Annas had sent him bound unto Caiaphas the high priest. 18:25 And Simon Peter stood and warmed himself.
They said therefore unto him, Art not thou also one of his disciples?
18:30 They answered and said unto him, If he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him up unto thee. 18:31 Then said Pilate unto them, Take ye him, and judge him according to your law.
18:34 Jesus answered him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it thee of me?
18:35 Pilate answered, Am I a Jew?
Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king.
To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth.
Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice. 18:38 Pilate saith unto him, What is truth?
18:40 Then cried they all again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas.
And Pilate saith unto them, Behold the man!
19:6 When the chief priests therefore and officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify him, crucify him.
But Jesus gave him no answer. 19:10 Then saith Pilate unto him, Speakest thou not unto me? knowest thou not that I have power to crucify thee, and have power to release thee?
19:15 But they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. Pilate saith unto them, Shall I crucify your King?
The chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar. 19:16 Then delivered he him therefore unto them to be crucified.
She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away. 20:16 Jesus saith unto her, Mary.
They say unto him, We also go with thee.
They answered him, No. 21:6 And he said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find.
They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes. 21:7 Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved saith unto Peter, It is the Lord.
He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee.
He saith unto him, Feed my lambs. 21:16 He saith to him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me?
He saith unto him, Feed my sheep. 21:17 He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me?
Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me?
And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee.
21:21 Peter seeing him saith to Jesus, Lord, and what shall this man do?
2:8 And how hear we every man in our own tongue, wherein we were born?
7:27 But he that did his neighbour wrong thrust him away, saying, Who made thee a ruler and a judge over us? 7:28 Wilt thou kill me, as thou diddest the Egyptian yesterday?
7:50 Hath not my hand made all these things?
And when he had said this, he fell asleep. 8:1 And Saul was consenting unto his death.
8:31 And he said, How can I, except some man should guide me?
9:5 And he said, Who art thou, Lord?
And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest: it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks. 9:6 And he trembling and astonished said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?
And on the morrow Peter went away with them, and certain brethren from Joppa accompanied him. 10:24 And the morrow after they entered into Caesarea.
Then answered Peter, 10:47 Can any man forbid water, that these should not be baptized, which have received the Holy Ghost as well as we?
10:48 And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord.
And it came to pass, that a whole year they assembled themselves with the church, and taught much people.
And his chains fell off from his hands. 12:8 And the angel said unto him, Gird thyself, and bind on thy sandals. And so he did.
But she constantly affirmed that it was even so.
And he said, Go shew these things unto James, and to the brethren.
13:11 And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon thee, and thou shalt be blind, not seeing the sun for a season.
And they said unto him, We have not so much as heard whether there be any Holy Ghost. 19:3 And he said unto them, Unto what then were ye baptized?
Who said, Canst thou speak Greek?
21:38 Art not thou that Egyptian, which before these days madest an uproar, and leddest out into the wilderness four thousand men that were murderers?
22:8 And I answered, Who art thou, Lord?
He said, Yea. 22:28 And the chief captain answered, With a great sum obtained I this freedom.
23:4 And they that stood by said, Revilest thou God's high priest?
And when he understood that he was of Cilicia; 23:35 I will hear thee, said he, when thine accusers are also come.
For which hope's sake, king Agrippa, I am accused of the Jews. 26:8 Why should it be thought a thing incredible with you, that God should raise the dead?
2:4 Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and longsuffering; not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance?
2:22 Thou that sayest a man should not commit adultery, dost thou commit adultery? thou that abhorrest idols, dost thou commit sacrilege?
2:23 Thou that makest thy boast of the law, through breaking the law dishonourest thou God?
2:27 And shall not uncircumcision which is by nature, if it fulfil the law, judge thee, who by the letter and circumcision dost transgress the law?
3:2 Much every way: chiefly, because that unto them were committed the oracles of God. 3:3 For what if some did not believe? shall their unbelief make the faith of God without effect?
Is God unrighteous who taketh vengeance? (I speak as a man) 3:6 God forbid: for then how shall God judge the world?
3:7 For if the truth of God hath more abounded through my lie unto his glory; why yet am I also judged as a sinner?
3:8 And not rather, (as we be slanderously reported, and as some affirm that we say,) Let us do evil, that good may come? whose damnation is just. 3:9 What then? are we better than they?
God forbid: yea, we establish the law. 4:1 What shall we say then that Abraham our father, as pertaining to the flesh, hath found?
4:2 For if Abraham were justified by works, he hath whereof to glory; but not before God. 4:3 For what saith the scripture?
But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound: 5:21 That as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord. 6:1 What shall we say then?
Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound?
How shall we, that are dead to sin, live any longer therein?
6:3 Know ye not, that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death?
God forbid. 6:16 Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness?
Nay, I had not known sin, but by the law: for I had not known lust, except the law had said, Thou shalt not covet. 7:8 But sin, taking occasion by the commandment, wrought in me all manner of concupiscence.
7:25 I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord.
If God be for us, who can be against us?
8:32 He that spared not his own Son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things?
8:33 Who shall lay any thing to the charge of God's elect?
It is God that justifieth. 8:34 Who is he that condemneth?
Amen. 9:6 Not as though the word of God hath taken none effect.
Is there unrighteousness with God?
For who hath resisted his will?
9:20 Nay but, O man, who art thou that repliest against God?
Shall the thing formed say to him that formed it, Why hast thou made me thus?
9:21 Hath not the potter power over the clay, of the same lump to make one vessel unto honour, and another unto dishonour?
That the Gentiles, which followed not after righteousness, have attained to righteousness, even the righteousness which is of faith. 9:31 But Israel, which followed after the law of righteousness, hath not attained to the law of righteousness. 9:32 Wherefore?
Because they sought it not by faith, but as it were by the works of the law.
10:15 And how shall they preach, except they be sent? as it is written, How beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace, and bring glad tidings of good things!
10:16 But they have not all obeyed the gospel.
For Esaias saith, Lord, who hath believed our report?
10:17 So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. 10:18 But I say, Have they not heard?
Yes verily, their sound went into all the earth, and their words unto the ends of the world. 10:19 But I say, Did not Israel know?
For I also am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. 11:2 God hath not cast away his people which he foreknew.
But if it be of works, then it is no more grace: otherwise work is no more work. 11:7 What then?
11:34 For who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who hath been his counsellor?
11:35 Or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again?
11:36 For of him, and through him, and to him, are all things: to whom be glory for ever.
Mind not high things, but condescend to men of low estate.
Be not wise in your own conceits. 12:17 Recompense to no man evil for evil.
Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same: 13:4 For he is the minister of God to thee for good.
Yea, he shall be holden up: for God is able to make him stand. 14:5 One man esteemeth one day above another: another esteemeth every day alike.
Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind. 14:6 He that regardeth the day, regardeth it unto the Lord; and he that regardeth not the day, to the Lord he doth not regard it.
Salute them which are of Aristobulus' household. 16:11 Salute Herodion my kinsman.
Greet them that be of the household of Narcissus, which are in the Lord. 16:12 Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labour in the Lord.
Amen. 16:21 Timotheus my workfellow, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater, my kinsmen, salute you. 16:22 I Tertius, who wrote this epistle, salute you in the Lord. 16:23 Gaius mine host, and of the whole church, saluteth you.
Erastus the chamberlain of the city saluteth you, and Quartus a brother. 16:24 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
3:4 For while one saith, I am of Paul; and another, I am of Apollos; are ye not carnal?
3:5 Who then is Paul, and who is Apollos, but ministers by whom ye believed, even as the Lord gave to every man?
3:17 If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are. 3:18 Let no man deceive himself.
If any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become a fool, that he may be wise. 3:19 For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God.
For it is written, He taketh the wise in their own craftiness. 3:20 And again, The Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise, that they are vain. 3:21 Therefore let no man glory in men.
Know ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump?
5:7 Purge out therefore the old leaven, that ye may be a new lump, as ye are unleavened.
5:13 But them that are without God judgeth.
Therefore put away from among yourselves that wicked person. 6:1 Dare any of you, having a matter against another, go to law before the unjust, and not before the saints?
6:2 Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world? and if the world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters?
Is it so, that there is not a wise man among you? no, not one that shall be able to judge between his brethren?
6:6 But brother goeth to law with brother, and that before the unbelievers. 6:7 Now therefore there is utterly a fault among you, because ye go to law one with another.
Why do ye not rather take wrong? why do ye not rather suffer yourselves to be defrauded?
6:8 Nay, ye do wrong, and defraud, and that your brethren. 6:9 Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God?
7:17 But as God hath distributed to every man, as the Lord hath called every one, so let him walk.
And so ordain I in all churches. 7:18 Is any man called being circumcised? let him not become uncircumcised.
Art thou loosed from a wife? seek not a wife. 7:28 But and if thou marry, thou hast not sinned; and if a virgin marry, she hath not sinned.
9:5 Have we not power to lead about a sister, a wife, as well as other apostles, and as the brethren of the Lord, and Cephas?
9:6 Or I only and Barnabas, have not we power to forbear working?
9:7 Who goeth a warfare any time at his own charges? who planteth a vineyard, and eateth not of the fruit thereof? or who feedeth a flock, and eateth not of the milk of the flock?
9:8 Say I these things as a man? or saith not the law the same also?
9:9 For it is written in the law of Moses, Thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the ox that treadeth out the corn.
Doth God take care for oxen?
9:10 Or saith he it altogether for our sakes?
9:12 If others be partakers of this power over you, are not we rather?
9:17 For if I do this thing willingly, I have a reward: but if against my will, a dispensation of the gospel is committed unto me. 9:18 What is my reward then?
So run, that ye may obtain. 9:25 And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things.
The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ?
10:17 For we being many are one bread, and one body: for we are all partakers of that one bread. 10:18 Behold Israel after the flesh: are not they which eat of the sacrifices partakers of the altar?
10:19 What say I then? that the idol is any thing, or that which is offered in sacrifice to idols is any thing?
10:30 For if I by grace be a partaker, why am I evil spoken of for that for which I give thanks?
11:14 Doth not even nature itself teach you, that, if a man have long hair, it is a shame unto him?
What shall I say to you? shall I praise you in this?
12:16 And if the ear shall say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body?
12:17 If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing?
If the whole were hearing, where were the smelling?
12:18 But now hath God set the members every one of them in the body, as it hath pleased him. 12:19 And if they were all one member, where were the body?
12:30 Have all the gifts of healing? do all speak with tongues? do all interpret?
14:7 And even things without life giving sound, whether pipe or harp, except they give a distinction in the sounds, how shall it be known what is piped or harped?
14:8 For if the trumpet give an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself to the battle?
15:30 And why stand we in jeopardy every hour?
Aquila and Priscilla salute you much in the Lord, with the church that is in their house. 16:20 All the brethren greet you.
And who is sufficient for these things?
6:15 And what concord hath Christ with Belial? or what part hath he that believeth with an infidel?
Are they Israelites? so am I.
Did Titus make a gain of you? walked we not in the same spirit? walked we not in the same steps?
For we also are weak in him, but we shall live with him by the power of God toward you. 13:5 Examine yourselves, whether ye be in the faith; prove your own selves.
Know ye not your own selves, how that Jesus Christ is in you, except ye be reprobates?
3:2 This only would I learn of you, Received ye the Spirit by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith?
3:3 Are ye so foolish? having begun in the Spirit, are ye now made perfect by the flesh?
Amen. 4:21 Salute every saint in Christ Jesus.
The brethren which are with me greet you. 4:22 All the saints salute you, chiefly they that are of Caesar's household. 4:23 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
Are not even ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming?
Amen. 4:19 Salute Prisca and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus. 4:20 Erastus abode at Corinth: but Trophimus have I left at Miletum sick. 4:21 Do thy diligence to come before winter.
Eubulus greeteth thee, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brethren. 4:22 The Lord Jesus Christ be with thy spirit.
Greet them that love us in the faith.
Grace be with you all.
And again, I will be to him a Father, and he shall be to me a Son?
1:14 Are they not all ministering spirits, sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation?
3:18 And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believed not?
2:5 Hearken, my beloved brethren, Hath not God chosen the poor of this world rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom which he hath promised to them that love him?
2:6 But ye have despised the poor.
Do not rich men oppress you, and draw you before the judgment seats?
2:7 Do not they blaspheme that worthy name by the which ye are called?
2:22 Seest thou how faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect?
My brethren, these things ought not so to be. 3:11 Doth a fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and bitter?
4:6 But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble. 4:7 Submit yourselves therefore to God.
Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. 4:8 Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you.
For what is your life?
The grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth away: 1:25 But the word of the Lord endureth for ever.
4:18 And if the righteous scarcely be saved, where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear?
Peace be with you all that are in Christ Jesus.
To him be glory both now and for ever.
I write unto you, young men, because ye have overcome the wicked one.
I write unto you, little children, because ye have known the Father. 2:14 I have written unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that is from the beginning.
I have written unto you, young men, because ye are strong, and the word of God abideth in you, and ye have overcome the wicked one. 2:15 Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world.
Because his own works were evil, and his brother's righteous. 3:13 Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. 3:14 We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren.
5:6 This is he that came by water and blood, even Jesus Christ; not by water only, but by water and blood.
This is the true God, and eternal life. 5:21 Little children, keep yourselves from idols.
This is the commandment, That, as ye have heard from the beginning, ye should walk in it. 1:7 For many deceivers are entered into the world, who confess not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh.
Unto him that loved us, and washed us from our sins in his own blood, 1:6 And hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Father; to him be glory and dominion for ever and ever.
Amen. 1:7 Behold, he cometh with clouds; and every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him: and all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him.
Of the tribe of Reuben were sealed twelve thousand.
Of the tribe of Gad were sealed twelve thousand. 7:6 Of the tribe of Aser were sealed twelve thousand.
Of the tribe of Nephthalim were sealed twelve thousand.
Of the tribe of Manasses were sealed twelve thousand. 7:7 Of the tribe of Simeon were sealed twelve thousand.
Of the tribe of Levi were sealed twelve thousand.
Of the tribe of Issachar were sealed twelve thousand. 7:8 Of the tribe of Zabulon were sealed twelve thousand.
Of the tribe of Joseph were sealed twelve thousand.
Amen. 7:13 And one of the elders answered, saying unto me, What are these which are arrayed in white robes? and whence came they?
7:14 And I said unto him, Sir, thou knowest.
18:17 For in one hour so great riches is come to nought.
And he saith unto me, These are the true sayings of God. 19:10 And I fell at his feet to worship him.
I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end.
I am the root and the offspring of David, and the bright and morning star. 22:17 And the Spirit and the bride say, Come.
And let him that heareth say, Come.
And let him that is athirst come.
[Illustration] Alice's Adventures in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION 3.0 Contents CHAPTER I.
Down the Rabbit-Hole CHAPTER II.
The Pool of Tears CHAPTER III.
A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale CHAPTER IV.
The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill CHAPTER V.
Advice from a Caterpillar CHAPTER VI.
Pig and Pepper CHAPTER VII.
A Mad Tea-Party CHAPTER VIII.
The Queen's Croquet-Ground CHAPTER IX.
The Mock Turtle's Story CHAPTER X.
The Lobster Quadrille CHAPTER XI.
Who Stole the Tarts? CHAPTER XII.
How brave they'll all think me at home!
Why, I wouldn't say anything about it, even if I fell off the top of the house!" (Which was very likely true.) Down, down, down.
Would the fall _never_ come to an end?
I wonder how many miles I've fallen by this time?" she said aloud.
I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth.
I wonder if I shall fall right _through_ the earth!
How funny it'll seem to come out among the people that walk with their heads downward!
The Antipathies, I think-" (she was rather glad there _was_ no one listening, this time, as it didn't sound at all the right word) "-but I shall have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know.
Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia?" (and she tried to curtsey as she spoke-fancy _curtseying_ as you're falling through the air!
Do you think you could manage it?) "And what an ignorant little girl she'll think me for asking!
No, it'll never do to ask: perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere." Down, down, down.
There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon began talking again.
Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I should think!" (Dinah was the cat.) "I hope they'll remember her saucer of milk at tea-time.
I wish you were down here with me!
There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but you might catch a bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know.
But do cats eat bats, I wonder?
And here Alice began to get rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of way, "Do cats eat bats?
Do cats eat bats?" and sometimes, "Do bats eat cats?" for, you see, as she couldn't answer either question, it didn't much matter which way she put it.
There was not a moment to be lost: away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it say, as it turned a corner, "Oh my ears and whiskers, how late it's getting!
Oh, how I wish I could shut up like a telescope!
I think I could, if I only knew how to begin.
I wonder what I should be like then?
Good-bye, feet!" (for when she looked down at her feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so far off).
Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?
I'm sure _I_ shan't be able!
Let me see: I'll give them a new pair of boots every Christmas." And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
They must go by the carrier," she thought; "and how funny it'll seem, sending presents to one's own feet!
Stop this moment, I tell you!
Oh! won't she be savage if I've kept her waiting!
How queer everything is to-day!
And yesterday things went on just as usual. I wonder if I've been changed in the night?
Let me think: was I the same when I got up this morning?
I almost think I can remember feeling a little different.
But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in the world am I?
Ah, _that's_ the great puzzle!
Besides, _she's_ she, and _I'm_ I, and-oh dear, how puzzling it all is!
I'll try if I know all the things I used to know. Let me see: four times five is twelve, and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is-oh dear!
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!
However, the Multiplication Table doesn't signify: let's try Geography.
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome, and Rome-no, _that's_ all wrong, I'm certain!
I must have been changed for Mabel!
No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm Mabel, I'll stay down here!
It'll be no use their putting their heads down and saying 'Come up again, dear!' I shall only look up and say 'Who am I then?
How _can_ I have done that?" she thought.
I must be growing small again.
And I declare it's too bad, that it is!" As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.
I shall be punished for it now, I suppose, by being drowned in my own tears!
That _will_ be a queer thing, to be sure!
So she began: "O Mouse, do you know the way out of this pool?
The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.
Oh, I beg your pardon!" cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the poor animal's feelings.
I quite forgot you didn't like cats." "Not like cats!" cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate voice.
Would _you_ like cats if you were me?" "Well, perhaps not," said Alice in a soothing tone: "don't be angry about it.
And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah: I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.
We won't talk about her any more if you'd rather not." "We indeed!" cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end of his tail.
As if _I_ would talk on such a subject!
Our family always _hated_ cats: nasty, low, vulgar things!
Don't let me hear the name again!" "I won't indeed!" said Alice, in a great hurry to change the subject of conversation.
Are you-are you fond-of-of dogs?
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly: "There is such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly brown hair!
He says it kills all the rats and-oh dear!" cried Alice in a sorrowful tone, "I'm afraid I've offended it again!
For the Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and making quite a commotion in the pool as it went. So she called softly after it, "Mouse dear!
Do come back again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't like them!
They all sat down at once, in a large ring, with the Mouse in the middle.
Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad cold if she did not get dry very soon. "Ahem!" said the Mouse with an important air, "are you all ready?
This is the driest thing I know.
Silence all round, if you please!
William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.
The question is, what did the archbishop find?" The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on, "'-found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William and offer him the crown.
William's conduct at first was moderate.
I don't know the meaning of half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do either!
There was no "One, two, three, and away," but they began running when they liked, and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know when the race was over.
Prizes!" Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly one a-piece, all round. "But she must have a prize herself, you know," said the Mouse. "Of course," the Dodo replied very gravely.
Oh, do let me help to undo it!" "I shall do nothing of the sort," said the Mouse, getting up and walking away.
You insult me by talking such nonsense!" "I didn't mean it!" pleaded poor Alice.
But you're so easily offended, you know!" The Mouse only growled in reply. "Please come back and finish your story!
Let this be a lesson to you never to lose _your_ temper!
Hold your tongue, Ma!" said the young Crab, a little snappishly.
You're enough to try the patience of an oyster!" "I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!" said Alice aloud, addressing nobody in particular.
She'd soon fetch it back!" "And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?" said the Lory. Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about her pet: "Dinah's our cat.
And she's such a capital one for catching mice you can't think!
And oh, I wish you could see her after the birds!
Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look at it!" This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
It's high time you were all in bed!
On various pretexts they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone. "I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!" she said to herself in a melancholy tone.
Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm sure she's the best cat in the world!
I wonder if I shall ever see you any more!
And here poor Alice began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.
Oh my fur and whiskers!
She'll get me executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!
Where _can_ I have dropped them, I wonder?
Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan!
And Alice was so much frightened that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without trying to explain the mistake it had made. "He took me for his housemaid," she said to herself as she ran.
How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!
But I'd better take him his fan and gloves-that is, if I can find them.
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door of which was a bright brass plate with the name "W.
I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on messages next!
And she began fancying the sort of thing that would happen: "'Miss Alice!
Come here directly, and get ready for your walk!
Coming in a minute, nurse!
But I've got to see that the mouse doesn't get out.
There was no label this time with the words "DRINK ME," but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips.
I know _something_ interesting is sure to happen," she said to herself, "whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what this bottle does.
I almost wish I hadn't gone down that rabbit-hole-and yet-and yet-it's rather curious, you know, this sort of life!
I do wonder what _can_ have happened to me!
When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!
There ought to be a book written about me, that there ought!
That'll be a comfort, one way-never to be an old woman-but then-always to have lessons to learn!
Oh, I shouldn't like _that!_" "Oh, you foolish Alice!" she answered herself.
How can you learn lessons in here?
Mary Ann!" said the voice.
Fetch me my gloves this moment!" Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs.
And then a voice she had never heard before, "Sure then I'm here!
Digging for apples, yer honour!" "Digging for apples, indeed!" said the Rabbit angrily.
Come and help me out of _this!_" (Sounds of more broken glass.) "Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?" "Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!" (He pronounced it "arrum.") "An arm, you goose!
Who ever saw one that size?
Do as I tell you, you coward!" and at last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in the air.
This time there were _two_ little shrieks, and more sounds of broken glass.
What a number of cucumber-frames there must be!" thought Alice.
I wonder what they'll do next!
So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?" said Alice to herself.
Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill!
If they had any sense, they'd take the roof off.
As soon as she was small enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside.
The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle.
I'd nearly forgotten that I've got to grow up again!
Let me see-how _is_ it to be managed?
I suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other; but the great question is, what?" The great question certainly was, what?
In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself.
And where _have_ my shoulders got to?
Ugh, Serpent!" "But I'm _not_ a serpent, I tell you!" said Alice.
I'm a-I'm a-" "Well! _What_ are you?" said the Pigeon.
I've seen a good many little girls in my time, but never _one_ with such a neck as that!
You're a serpent; and there's no use denying it.
Alice crouched down among the trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and untwist it.
Come, there's half my plan done now!
How puzzling all these changes are!
I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to another!
However, I've got back to my right size: the next thing is, to get into that beautiful garden-how _is_ that to be done, I wonder?
It was opened by another footman in livery, with a round face, and large eyes like a frog; and both footmen, Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their heads.
An invitation from the Queen to play croquet.
First, because I'm on the same side of the door as you are; secondly, because they're making such a noise inside, no one could possibly hear you.
For instance, if you were _inside_, you might knock, and I could let you out, you know.
He was looking up into the sky all the time he was speaking, and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil.
But perhaps he can't help it," she said to herself; "his eyes are so _very_ nearly at the top of his head.
That's the first question, you know." It was, no doubt: only Alice did not like to be told so.
It's really dreadful," she muttered to herself, "the way all the creatures argue. It's enough to drive one crazy!" The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his remark, with variations.
Alice said to herself, as well as she could for sneezing. There was certainly too much of it in the air.
Even the Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause.
Just think of what work it would make with the day and night!
I-" "Oh, don't bother _me_," said the Duchess; "I never could abide figures!
I must go and get ready to play croquet with the Queen," and she hurried out of the room.
If I don't take this child away with me," thought Alice, "they're sure to kill it in a day or two: wouldn't it be murder to leave it behind?
But perhaps it was only sobbing," she thought, and looked into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears. No, there were no tears.
If you're going to turn into a pig, my dear," said Alice, seriously, "I'll have nothing more to do with you.
If it had grown up," she said to herself, "it would have made a dreadfully ugly child: but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think.
What sort of people live about here?" "In _that_ direction," the Cat said, waving its right paw round, "lives a Hatter: and in _that_ direction," waving the other paw, "lives a March Hare.
Visit either you like: they're both mad." "But I don't want to go among mad people," Alice remarked. "Oh, you can't help that," said the Cat: "we're all mad here.
You grant that?" "I suppose so," said Alice. "Well, then," the Cat went on, "you see, a dog growls when it's angry, and wags its tail when it's pleased.
Now _I_ growl when I'm pleased, and wag my tail when I'm angry.
Therefore I'm mad." "_I_ call it purring, not growling," said Alice. "Call it what you like," said the Cat.
While she was looking at the place where it had been, it suddenly appeared again. "By-the-bye, what became of the baby?" said the Cat.
I've seen hatters before," she said to herself; "the March Hare will be much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it won't be raving mad-at least not so mad as it was in March.
I've often seen a cat without a grin," thought Alice; "but a grin without a cat!
Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse," thought Alice; "only, as it's asleep, I suppose it doesn't mind." The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded together at one corner of it: "No room!
No room!" they cried out when they saw Alice coming.
What a funny watch!" she remarked.
It tells the day of the month, and doesn't tell what o'clock it is!" "Why should it?" muttered the Hatter.
I think you might do something better with the time," she said, "than waste it in asking riddles that have no answers." "If you knew Time as well as I do," said the Hatter, "you wouldn't talk about wasting _it_.
It's _him_." "I don't know what you mean," said Alice. "Of course you don't!" the Hatter said, tossing his head contemptuously.
I dare say you never even spoke to Time!" "Perhaps not," Alice cautiously replied: "but I know I have to beat time when I learn music." "Ah! that accounts for it," said the Hatter.
He won't stand beating. Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do almost anything you liked with the clock.
For instance, suppose it were nine o'clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons: you'd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the clock in a twinkling!
Alice asked. The Hatter shook his head mournfully.
Off with his head!'" "How dreadfully savage!" exclaimed Alice. "And ever since that," the Hatter went on in a mournful tone, "he won't do a thing I ask!
It's always six o'clock now." A bright idea came into Alice's head.
Alice ventured to ask. "Suppose we change the subject," the March Hare interrupted, yawning. "I'm getting tired of this.
I vote the young lady tells us a story." "I'm afraid I don't know one," said Alice, rather alarmed at the proposal. "Then the Dormouse shall!" they both cried.
And they pinched it on both sides at once. The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes.
Why did they live at the bottom of a well?" The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and then said, "It was a treacle-well." "There's no such thing!
Alice was beginning very angrily, but the Hatter and the March Hare went "Sh! sh!" and the Dormouse sulkily remarked, "If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the story for yourself." "No, please go on!
Alice said very humbly; "I won't interrupt again.
I dare say there may be _one_." "One, indeed!" said the Dormouse indignantly.
However, he consented to go on.
It's the stupidest tea-party I ever was at in all my life!" Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a door leading right into it.
That's very curious!" she thought.
I think I may as well go in at once.
And in she went. Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the little glass table.
Now, I'll manage better this time," she said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key, and unlocking the door that led into the garden.
Alice thought this a very curious thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up to them she heard one of them say, "Look out now, Five!
Don't go splashing paint over me like that!" "I couldn't help it," said Five, in a sulky tone; "Seven jogged my elbow." On which Seven looked up and said, "That's right, Five!
Always lay the blame on others!" "_You'd_ better not talk!" said Five.
So you see, Miss, we're doing our best, afore she comes, to-" At this moment Five, who had been anxiously looking across the garden, called out "The Queen!
The Queen!" and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon their faces.
After these came the royal children; there were ten of them, and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand in hand, in couples: they were all ornamented with hearts.
Next came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among them Alice recognised the White Rabbit: it was talking in a hurried nervous manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without noticing her.
So she stood still where she was, and waited. When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped and looked at her, and the Queen said severely "Who is this?
It's no business of _mine_." The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her for a moment like a wild beast, screamed "Off with her head!
She was walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously into her face. "Very," said Alice: "-where's the Duchess?" "Hush!
Hush!" said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone.
I said 'What for?'" "She boxed the Queen's ears-" the Rabbit began.
Alice gave a little scream of laughter.
Oh, hush!" the Rabbit whispered in a frightened tone.
The Queen will hear you!
It's no use speaking to it," she thought, "till its ears have come, or at least one of them.
In another minute the whole head appeared, and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an account of the game, feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her.
He got behind Alice as he spoke. "A cat may look at a king," said Alice.
I've read that in some book, but I don't remember where." "Well, it must be removed," said the King very decidedly, and he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, "My dear!
I wish you would have this cat removed!" The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great or small.
I only wish people knew _that_: then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you know-" She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear.
You're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you forget to talk.
I can't tell you just now what the moral of that is, but I shall remember it in a bit." "Perhaps it hasn't one," Alice ventured to remark. "Tut, tut, child!" said the Duchess.
Everything's got a moral, if only you can find it.
Alice thought to herself. "I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your waist," the Duchess said after a pause: "the reason is, that I'm doubtful about the temper of your flamingo.
Shall I try the experiment?" "He might bite," Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all anxious to have the experiment tried. "Very true," said the Duchess: "flamingoes and mustard both bite.
I make you a present of everything I've said as yet." "A cheap sort of present!" thought Alice.
I'm glad they don't give birthday presents like that!
I must go back and see after some executions I have ordered;" and she walked off, leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon.
What fun!" said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice. "What _is_ the fun?" said Alice. "Why, _she_," said the Gryphon.
It's all her fancy, that: they never executes nobody, you know.
What is his sorrow?" she asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon answered, very nearly in the same words as before, "It's all his fancy, that: he hasn't got no sorrow, you know.
The master was an old Turtle-we used to call him Tortoise-" "Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?
At last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, "Drive on, old fellow!
What is it?" The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise.
Never heard of uglifying!" it exclaimed.
And the Gryphon never learnt it." "Hadn't time," said the Gryphon: "I went to the Classics master, though.
Then the eleventh day must have been a holiday?" "Of course it was," said the Mock Turtle. "And how did you manage on the twelfth?
He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for a minute or two sobs choked his voice.
Same as if he had a bone in his throat," said the Gryphon: and it set to work shaking him and punching him in the back.
What sort of a dance is it?" "Why," said the Gryphon, "you first form into a line along the sea-shore-" "Two lines!" cried the Mock Turtle.
We can do without lobsters, you know.
Which shall sing?" "Oh, _you_ sing," said the Gryphon.
They have their tails in their mouths-and they're all over crumbs." "You're wrong about the crumbs," said the Mock Turtle: "crumbs would all wash off in the sea.
So they got thrown out to sea.
So they had to fall a long way.
So they got their tails fast in their mouths.
So they couldn't get them out again.
That's all." "Thank you," said Alice, "it's very interesting.
I never knew so much about a whiting before." "I can tell you more than that, if you like," said the Gryphon.
Do you know why it's called a whiting?" "I never thought about it," said Alice.
Why?" "_It does the boots and shoes_," the Gryphon replied very solemnly. Alice was thoroughly puzzled.
Does the boots and shoes!" she repeated in a wondering tone. "Why, what are _your_ shoes done with?" said the Gryphon.
I mean, what makes them so shiny?" Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she gave her answer.
They're done with blacking, I believe." "Boots and shoes under the sea," the Gryphon went on in a deep voice, "are done with a whiting.
Now you know." "And what are they made of?
The adventures first," said the Gryphon in an impatient tone: "explanations take such a dreadful time." So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when she first saw the White Rabbit.
She was a little nervous about it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so _very_ wide, but she gained courage as she went on.
I should like to hear her try and repeat something now.
Go on with the next verse." "But about his toes?" the Mock Turtle persisted.
How _could_ he turn them out with his nose, you know?" "It's the first position in dancing.
Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you a song?" "Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind," Alice replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather offended tone, "Hm!
She said this last word two or three times over to herself, being rather proud of it: for she thought, and rightly too, that very few little girls of her age knew the meaning of it at all.
However, "jury-men" would have done just as well. The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates.
Alice whispered to the Gryphon.
They can't have anything to put down yet, before the trial's begun." "They're putting down their names," the Gryphon whispered in reply, "for fear they should forget them before the end of the trial." "Stupid things!
A nice muddle their slates'll be in before the trial's over!" thought Alice. One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked.
This of course, Alice could _not_ stand, and she went round the court and got behind him, and very soon found an opportunity of taking it away.
There's a great deal to come before that!" "Call the first witness," said the King; and the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, "First witness!" The first witness was the Hatter.
He came in with a teacup in one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other.
I beg pardon, your Majesty," he began, "for bringing these in: but I hadn't quite finished my tea when I was sent for." "You ought to have finished," said the King.
When did you begin?" The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into the court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse.
Do you take me for a dunce?
They had a large canvas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings: into this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat upon it.) "I'm glad I've seen that done," thought Alice.
Behead that Dormouse! Turn that Dormouse out of court!
And he added in an undertone to the Queen, "Really, my dear, _you_ must cross-examine the next witness.
It quite makes my forehead ache!" Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list, feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like, "-for they haven't got much evidence _yet_," she said to herself.
Why, you don't even know what they're about!" "Read them," said the King. The White Rabbit put on his spectacles.
Nothing can be clearer than _that_.
There was a dead silence. "It's a pun!" the King added in an offended tone, and everybody laughed, "Let the jury consider their verdict," the King said, for about the twentieth time that day. "No, no!" said the Queen.
Sentence first-verdict afterwards." "Stuff and nonsense!" said Alice loudly.
The idea of having the sentence first!" "Hold your tongue!" said the Queen, turning purple. "I won't!" said Alice. "Off with her head!" the Queen shouted at the top of her voice.
[Illustration] THROUGH THE LOOKING-GLASS And What Alice Found There By Lewis Carroll The Millennium Fulcrum Edition 1.7 DRAMATIS PERSONAE. (_As arranged before commencement of game._) WHITE RED. PIECES.
Lion. _RED._ [Illustration: chessboard] _WHITE._ White Pawn (Alice) to play, and win in eleven moves. 1.
Alice through Q.'s 3d (_by railway_) to 4th (_Tweedledum and Tweedledee_) 2.
B.'s 4th (_after shawl_) 3.
Q. to Q.B.'s 5th (_becomes sheep_) 4.
Alice to Q.'s 5th (_shop, river, shop_) 4.
B.'s 8th (_leaves egg on shelf_) 5.
Alice to Q.'s 6th (_Humpty Dumpty_) 5.
B.'s 8th (_flying from R.
Alice to Q.'s 7th (_forest_) 6.
Kt. to K.'s 2nd (ch.) 7.
Alice to Q.'s 8th (_coronation_) 8.
Q. to K.'s sq. (_examination_) 9.
W.Q. to Q.R.'s 6th (_soup_) 11.
The Garden of Live Flowers CHAPTER III.
Tweedledum And Tweedledee CHAPTER V.
Wool and Water CHAPTER VI.
The Lion and the Unicorn CHAPTER VIII.
It's my own Invention" CHAPTER IX.
Which Dreamed it? CHAPTER I. Looking-Glass house One thing was certain, that the _white_ kitten had had nothing to do with it:-it was the black kitten's fault entirely.
But she didn't get on very fast, as she was talking all the time, sometimes to the kitten, and sometimes to herself.
You'd have guessed if you'd been up in the window with me-only Dinah was making you tidy, so you couldn't.
I was watching the boys getting in sticks for the bonfire-and it wants plenty of sticks, Kitty!
Only it got so cold, and it snowed so, they had to leave off.
Never mind, Kitty, we'll go and see the bonfire to-morrow.
And you'd have deserved it, you little mischievous darling!
What have you got to say for yourself?
Now don't interrupt me!" she went on, holding up one finger.
I'm going to tell you all your faults.
Number one: you squeaked twice while Dinah was washing your face this morning.
Now you can't deny it, Kitty: I heard you! What's that you say?" (pretending that the kitten was speaking.) "Her paw went into your eye?
Well, that's _your_ fault, for keeping your eyes open-if you'd shut them tight up, it wouldn't have happened.
Now don't make any more excuses, but listen!
Number two: you pulled Snowdrop away by the tail just as I had put down the saucer of milk before her!
What, you were thirsty, were you?
How do you know she wasn't thirsty too?
Now for number three: you unwound every bit of the worsted while I wasn't looking! "That's three faults, Kitty, and you've not been punished for any of them yet.
You know I'm saving up all your punishments for Wednesday week-Suppose they had saved up all _my_ punishments!" she went on, talking more to herself than the kitten.
What _would_ they do at the end of a year?
I should be sent to prison, I suppose, when the day came.
Or-let me see-suppose each punishment was to be going without a dinner: then, when the miserable day came, I should have to go without fifty dinners at once!
Well, I shouldn't mind _that_ much!
I'd far rather go without them than eat them! "Do you hear the snow against the window-panes, Kitty?
How nice and soft it sounds!
Just as if some one was kissing the window all over outside.
I wonder if the snow _loves_ the trees and fields, that it kisses them so gently?
And then it covers them up snug, you know, with a white quilt; and perhaps it says, 'Go to sleep, darlings, till the summer comes again.
And when they wake up in the summer, Kitty, they dress themselves all in green, and dance about-whenever the wind blows-oh, that's very pretty!" cried Alice, dropping the ball of worsted to clap her hands.
And I do so _wish_ it was true!
I'm sure the woods look sleepy in the autumn, when the leaves are getting brown. "Kitty, can you play chess?
Now, don't smile, my dear, I'm asking it seriously.
Because, when we were playing just now, you watched just as if you understood it: and when I said 'Check!' you purred!
And once she had really frightened her old nurse by shouting suddenly in her ear, "Nurse!
Do let's pretend that I'm a hungry hyaena, and you're a bone." But this is taking us away from Alice's speech to the kitten.
Let's pretend that you're the Red Queen, Kitty!
Do you know, I think if you sat up and folded your arms, you'd look exactly like her.
Now do try, there's a dear!
And Alice got the Red Queen off the table, and set it up before the kitten as a model for it to imitate: however, the thing didn't succeed, principally, Alice said, because the kitten wouldn't fold its arms properly.
So, to punish it, she held it up to the Looking-glass, that it might see how sulky it was-"and if you're not good directly," she added, "I'll put you through into Looking-glass House.
How would you like _that_?" "Now, if you'll only attend, Kitty, and not talk so much, I'll tell you all my ideas about Looking-glass House.
First, there's the room you can see through the glass-that's just the same as our drawing room, only the things go the other way.
I can see all of it when I get upon a chair-all but the bit behind the fireplace.
I do so wish I could see _that_ bit!
I wonder if they'd give you milk in there?
Perhaps Looking-glass milk isn't good to drink-But oh, Kitty! now we come to the passage.
I'm sure it's got, oh! such beautiful things in it!
Let's pretend there's a way of getting through into it, somehow, Kitty.
Let's pretend the glass has got all soft like gauze, so that we can get through.
Why, it's turning into a sort of mist now, I declare! It'll be easy enough to get through-" She was up on the chimney-piece while she said this, though she hardly knew how she had got there.
And certainly the glass _was_ beginning to melt away, just like a bright silvery mist. In another moment Alice was through the glass, and had jumped lightly down into the Looking-glass room.
So I shall be as warm here as I was in the old room," thought Alice: "warmer, in fact, because there'll be no one here to scold me away from the fire.
My imperial kitten!" and she began scrambling wildly up the side of the fender. "Imperial fiddlestick!" said the King, rubbing his nose, which had been hurt by the fall.
I'd far better help you, hadn't I?
You make me laugh so that I can hardly hold you!
And don't keep your mouth so wide open!
I really _must_ get a thinner pencil.
Why, it's a Looking-glass book, of course!
And through and through The vorpal blade went snicker-snack! He left it dead, and with its head He went galumphing back. "And hast thou slain the Jabberwock? Come to my arms, my beamish boy! O frabjous day!
But how curiously it twists!
It's more like a corkscrew than a path!
Well, _this_ turn goes to the hill, I suppose-no, it doesn't!
This goes straight back to the house!
Well then, I'll try it the other way." And so she did: wandering up and down, and trying turn after turn, but always coming back to the house, do what she would.
I'm _not_ going in again yet.
I never saw such a house for getting in the way!
Never!" However, there was the hill full in sight, so there was nothing to be done but start again.
At length, as the Tiger-lily only went on waving about, she spoke again, in a timid voice-almost in a whisper. "And can _all_ the flowers talk?" "As well as _you_ can," said the Tiger-lily.
And a great deal louder." "It isn't manners for us to begin, you know," said the Rose, "and I really was wondering when you'd speak!
Said I to myself, 'Her face has got _some_ sense in it, though it's not a clever one!
Still, you're the right colour, and that goes a long way." "I don't care about the colour," the Tiger-lily remarked.
Alice asked. "It says 'Bough-wough!'" cried a Daisy: "that's why its branches are called boughs!" "Didn't you know _that_?" cried another Daisy, and here they all began shouting together, till the air seemed quite full of little shrill voices.
The daisies are worst of all. When one speaks, they all begin together, and it's enough to make one wither to hear the way they go on!" "How is it you can all talk so nicely?
Alice said, hoping to get it into a better temper by a compliment.
I've been in many gardens before, but none of the flowers could talk." "Put your hand down, and feel the ground," said the Tiger-lily.
Then you'll know why." Alice did so.
As if _you_ ever saw anybody!
You keep your head under the leaves, and snore away there, till you know no more what's going on in the world, than if you were a bud!" "Are there any more people in the garden besides me?
Alice said, not choosing to notice the Rose's last remark. "There's one other flower in the garden that can move about like you," said the Rose.
I wonder how you do it-" ("You're always wondering," said the Tiger-lily), "but she's more bushy than you are." "Is she like me?
She's one of the thorny kind." "Where does she wear the thorns?
Alice asked with some curiosity. "Why all round her head, of course," the Rose replied.
I was wondering _you_ hadn't got some too.
I thought it was the regular rule." "She's coming!" cried the Larkspur.
I hear her footstep, thump, thump, thump, along the gravel-walk!" Alice looked round eagerly, and found that it was the Red Queen.
She's grown a good deal!" was her first remark.
Curtsey while you're thinking what to say, it saves time." Alice wondered a little at this, but she was too much in awe of the Queen to disbelieve it.
There ought to be some men moving about somewhere-and so there are!
She added in a tone of delight, and her heart began to beat quick with excitement as she went on.
It's a great huge game of chess that's being played-all over the world-if this _is_ the world at all, you know.
Oh, what fun it is!
How I _wish_ I was one of them!
I wonder if all the things move along with us?" thought poor puzzled Alice.
And the Queen seemed to guess her thoughts, for she cried, "Faster!
Don't try to talk!" Not that Alice had any idea of doing _that_.
She felt as if she would never be able to talk again, she was getting so much out of breath: and still the Queen cried "Faster!
Faster!" and dragged her along.
Alice managed to pant out at last. "Nearly there!" the Queen repeated.
Why, we passed it ten minutes ago! Faster!
And they ran on for a time in silence, with the wind whistling in Alice's ears, and almost blowing her hair off her head, she fancied. "Now!
Why, I do believe we've been under this tree the whole time!
Now, _here_, you see, it takes all the running _you_ can do, to keep in the same place.
If you want to get somewhere else, you must run at least twice as fast as that!" "I'd rather not try, please!" said Alice.
I'm quite content to stay here-only I _am_ so hot and thirsty!" "I know what _you'd_ like!" the Queen said good-naturedly, taking a little box out of her pocket.
Have a biscuit?" Alice thought it would not be civil to say "No," though it wasn't at all what she wanted.
At the end of _three_ yards I shall repeat them-for fear of your forgetting them.
At the end of _four_, I shall say good-bye.
So you'll go _very_ quickly through the Third Square-by railway, I should think-and you'll find yourself in the Fourth Square in no time.
It's something very like learning geography," thought Alice, as she stood on tiptoe in hopes of being able to see a little further.
Principal rivers-there _are_ none. Principal mountains-I'm on the only one, but I don't think it's got any name.
Principal towns-why, what _are_ those creatures, making honey down there?
And what enormous flowers they must be!" was her next idea.
Something like cottages with the roofs taken off, and stalks put to them-and what quantities of honey they must make!
I think I'll go down and-no, I won't _just_ yet," she went on, checking herself just as she was beginning to run down the hill, and trying to find some excuse for turning shy so suddenly.
It'll never do to go down among them without a good long branch to brush them away-and what fun it'll be when they ask me how I like my walk.
Show your ticket, child!" the Guard went on, looking angrily at Alice.
And a great many voices all said together ("like the chorus of a song," thought Alice), "Don't keep him waiting, child!
Why, his time is worth a thousand pounds a minute!" "I'm afraid I haven't got one," Alice said in a frightened tone: "there wasn't a ticket-office where I came from.
And again the chorus of voices went on.
There wasn't room for one where she came from.
The land there is worth a thousand pounds an inch!" "Don't make excuses," said the Guard: "you should have bought one from the engine-driver.
And once more the chorus of voices went on with "The man that drives the engine.
Why, the smoke alone is worth a thousand pounds a puff!" Alice thought to herself, "Then there's no use in speaking.
Change engines-" it said, and was obliged to leave off. "It sounds like a horse," Alice thought to herself.
But this was such a wonderfully small sigh, that she wouldn't have heard it at all, if it hadn't come _quite_ close to her ear.
And you won't hurt me, though I _am_ an insect." "What kind of insect?
Alice inquired a little anxiously.
Everybody seemed satisfied with this, though Alice felt a little nervous at the idea of trains jumping at all.
However, it'll take us into the Fourth Square, that's some comfort!" she said to herself.
If not, why do things have names at all?" "I can't say," the Gnat replied.
It's made entirely of wood, and gets about by swinging itself from branch to branch." "What does it live on?
Alice asked, with great curiosity. "Sap and sawdust," said the Gnat.
Its wings are thin slices of Bread-and-butter, its body is a crust, and its head is a lump of sugar." "And what does _it_ live on?" "Weak tea with cream in it." A new difficulty came into Alice's head.
Supposing it couldn't find any?" she suggested. "Then it would die, of course." "But that must happen very often," Alice remarked thoughtfully. "It always happens," said the Gnat. After this, Alice was silent for a minute or two, pondering.
If she couldn't remember my name, she'd call me 'Miss!' as the servants do." "Well, if she said 'Miss,' and didn't say anything more," the Gnat remarked, "of course you'd miss your lessons.
I wish _you_ had made it." "Why do you wish _I_ had made it?
I wonder what'll become of _my_ name when I go in?
I shouldn't like to lose it at all-because they'd have to give me another, and it would be almost certain to be an ugly one.
Well, at any rate it's a great comfort," she said as she stepped under the trees, "after being so hot, to get into the-into _what_?" she went on, rather surprised at not being able to think of the word.
I mean to get under the-under the-under _this_, you know!" putting her hand on the trunk of the tree.
What _does_ it call itself, I wonder?
I do believe it's got no name-why, to be sure it hasn't!" She stood silent for a minute, thinking: then she suddenly began again. "Then it really _has_ happened, after all!
And now, who am I?
I _will_ remember, if I can!
I'm determined to do it!
Here then!" Alice said, as she held out her hand and tried to stroke it; but it only started back a little, and then stood looking at her again. "What do you call yourself?" the Fawn said at last.
Such a soft sweet voice it had! "I wish I knew!" thought poor Alice.
She answered, rather sadly, "Nothing, just now." "Think again," it said: "that won't do." Alice thought, but nothing came of it.
Please, would you tell me what _you_ call yourself?" she said timidly.
I think that might help a little." "I'll tell you, if you'll move a little further on," the Fawn said.
I'm a Fawn!" it cried out in a voice of delight, "and, dear me! you're a human child!
However, I know my name now." she said, "that's _some_ comfort.
Alice-Alice-I won't forget it again.
If I could only get to the Eighth Square before it gets dark!
That's logic." "I was thinking," Alice said very politely, "which is the best way out of this wood: it's getting so dark.
Would you tell me, please?" But the little men only looked at each other and grinned. They looked so exactly like a couple of great schoolboys, that Alice couldn't help pointing her finger at Tweedledum, and saying "First Boy!" "Nohow!
The first thing in a visit is to say 'How d'ye do?' and shake hands!
I don't know when I began it, but somehow I felt as if I'd been singing it a long long time!" The other two dancers were fat, and very soon out of breath.
It would never do to say 'How d'ye do?' _now_," she said to herself: "we seem to have got beyond that, somehow!" "I hope you're not much tired?" she said at last. "Nohow.
And thank you _very_ much for asking," said Tweedledum. "So _much_ obliged!" added Tweedledee.
You like poetry?" "Ye-es, pretty well-_some_ poetry," Alice said doubtfully.
You see he held his handkerchief in front, so that the Carpenter couldn't count how many he took: contrariwise." "That was mean!
Then I like the Carpenter best-if he didn't eat so many as the Walrus." "But he ate as many as he could get," said Tweedledum. This was a puzzler.
After a pause, Alice began, "Well!
Tweedledee exclaimed, clapping his hands triumphantly.
And if he left off dreaming about you, where do you suppose you'd be?" "Where I am now, of course," said Alice. "Not you!
Why, you're only a sort of thing in his dream!" "If that there King was to wake," added Tweedledum, "you'd go out-bang!-just like a candle!" "I shouldn't!
Besides, if _I'm_ only a sort of thing in his dream, what are _you_, I should like to know?" "Ditto" said Tweedledum. "Ditto, ditto" cried Tweedledee. He shouted this so loud that Alice couldn't help saying, "Hush!
You'll be waking him, I'm afraid, if you make so much noise." "Well, it no use _your_ talking about waking him," said Tweedledum, "when you're only one of the things in his dream.
Tweedledum interrupted in a tone of great contempt. "I know they're talking nonsense," Alice thought to herself: "and it's foolish to cry about it.
So she brushed away her tears, and went on as cheerfully as she could.
At any rate I'd better be getting out of the wood, for really it's coming on very dark.
Do you think it's going to rain?" Tweedledum spread a large umbrella over himself and his brother, and looked up into it.
No, I don't think it is," he said: "at least-not under _here_.
Not a rattle-_snake_, you know," she added hastily, thinking that he was frightened: "only an old rattle-quite old and broken." "I knew it was!" cried Tweedledum, beginning to stamp about wildly and tear his hair.
I hope you're a good hand at pinning and tying strings?
I'm far worse off than you!" "Then you'd better not fight to-day," said Alice, thinking it a good opportunity to make peace. "We _must_ have a bit of a fight, but I don't care about going on long," said Tweedledum.
You must hit the _trees_ pretty often, I should think," she said. Tweedledum looked round him with a satisfied smile.
Only we must begin quick.
It's getting as dark as it can." "And darker," said Tweedledee. It was getting dark so suddenly that Alice thought there must be a thunderstorm coming on.
What a thick black cloud that is!" she said. "And how fast it comes!
Why, I do believe it's got wings!" "It's the crow!
So she began rather timidly: "Am I addressing the White Queen?" "Well, yes, if you call that a-dressing," The Queen said.
I've been a-dressing myself for the last two hours." It would have been all the better, as it seemed to Alice, if she had got some one else to dress her, she was so dreadfully untidy.
Every single thing's crooked," Alice thought to herself, "and she's all over pins!-may I put your shawl straight for you?" she added aloud. "I don't know what's the matter with it!" the Queen said, in a melancholy voice.
It's out of temper, I think.
And I lost the comb yesterday." Alice carefully released the brush, and did her best to get the hair into order.
Come, you look rather better now!" she said, after altering most of the pins.
But really you should have a lady's maid!" "I'm sure I'll take you with pleasure!" the Queen said.
The rule is, jam to-morrow and jam yesterday-but never jam to-day." "It _must_ come sometimes to 'jam to-day,'" Alice objected. "No, it can't," said the Queen.
It's jam every _other_ day: to-day isn't any _other_ day, you know." "I don't understand you," said Alice.
It's dreadfully confusing!" "That's the effect of living backwards," the Queen said kindly: "it always makes one a little giddy at first-" "Living backwards!
Alice repeated in great astonishment.
I never heard of such a thing!" "-but there's one great advantage in it, that one's memory works both ways." "I'm sure _mine_ only works one way," Alice remarked.
I can't remember things before they happen." "It's a poor sort of memory that only works backwards," the Queen remarked. "What sort of things do _you_ remember best?
Alice ventured to ask. "Oh, things that happened the week after next," the Queen replied in a careless tone.
Oh, oh, oh!" shouted the Queen, shaking her hand about as if she wanted to shake it off.
Have you pricked your finger?" "I haven't pricked it _yet_," the Queen said, "but I soon shall-oh, oh, oh!" "When do you expect to do it?
Alice asked, feeling very much inclined to laugh. "When I fasten my shawl again," the poor Queen groaned out: "the brooch will come undone directly.
As she said the words the brooch flew open, and the Queen clutched wildly at it, and tried to clasp it again. "Take care!" cried Alice.
You're holding it all crooked!
And she caught at the brooch; but it was too late: the pin had slipped, and the Queen had pricked her finger. "That accounts for the bleeding, you see," she said to Alice with a smile.
Now you understand the way things happen here." "But why don't you scream now?
Alice asked, holding her hands ready to put over her ears again. "Why, I've done all the screaming already," said the Queen.
What would be the good of having it all over again?" By this time it was getting light.
The crow must have flown away, I think," said Alice: "I'm so glad it's gone.
I thought it was the night coming on." "I wish _I_ could manage to be glad!" the Queen said.
Only I never can remember the rule.
You must be very happy, living in this wood, and being glad whenever you like!" "Only it is so _very_ lonely here!
Alice said in a melancholy voice; and at the thought of her loneliness two large tears came rolling down her cheeks. "Oh, don't go on like that!" cried the poor Queen, wringing her hands in despair.
Consider what a great girl you are.
Consider what a long way you've come to-day.
Consider what o'clock it is.
Let's consider your age to begin with-how old are you?" "I'm seven and a half exactly." "You needn't say 'exactually,'" the Queen remarked: "I can believe it without that.
Now I'll give _you_ something to believe.
I'm just one hundred and one, five months and a day." "I can't believe _that_!" said Alice. "Can't you?" the Queen said in a pitying tone.
Try again: draw a long breath, and shut your eyes." Alice laughed.
There's no use trying," she said: "one _can't_ believe impossible things." "I daresay you haven't had much practice," said the Queen.
When I was your age, I always did it for half-an-hour a day.
Why, sometimes I've believed as many as six impossible things before breakfast.
There goes the shawl again!" The brooch had come undone as she spoke, and a sudden gust of wind blew the Queen's shawl across a little brook.
The Queen spread out her arms again, and went flying after it, and this time she succeeded in catching it for herself.
I've got it!" she cried in a triumphant tone. "Now you shall see me pin it on again, all by myself!" "Then I hope your finger is better now?
The last word ended in a long bleat, so like a sheep that Alice quite started. She looked at the Queen, who seemed to have suddenly wrapped herself up in wool.
Alice rubbed her eyes, and looked again.
She couldn't make out what had happened at all.
Was she in a shop?
And was that really-was it really a _sheep_ that was sitting on the other side of the counter?
And this one is the most provoking of all-but I'll tell you what-" she added, as a sudden thought struck her, "I'll follow it up to the very top shelf of all.
You'll make me giddy soon, if you go on turning round like that.
She was now working with fourteen pairs at once, and Alice couldn't help looking at her in great astonishment. "How _can_ she knit with so many?" the puzzled child thought to herself.
There was something very queer about the water, she thought, as every now and then the oars got fast in it, and would hardly come out again. "Feather!
Feather!" the Sheep cried again, taking more needles.
You'll be catching a crab directly." "A dear little crab!" thought Alice.
Feather, I say!" "_Why_ do you say 'feather' so often?
Alice asked at last, rather vexed.
There are some scented rushes!
Alice cried in a sudden transport of delight.
If you don't mind stopping the boat for a minute." "How am _I_ to stop it?" said the Sheep.
If you leave off rowing, it'll stop of itself." So the boat was left to drift down the stream as it would, till it glided gently in among the waving rushes.
Oh, _what_ a lovely one!
Only I couldn't quite reach it.
That was a nice crab you caught!" she remarked, as Alice got back into her place, very much relieved to find herself still in the boat. "Was it?
I didn't see it," Said Alice, peeping cautiously over the side of the boat into the dark water.
I wish it hadn't let go-I should so like to see a little crab to take home with me!
But the Sheep only laughed scornfully, and went on with her knitting. "Are there many crabs here?" said Alice. "Crabs, and all sorts of things," said the Sheep: "plenty of choice, only make up your mind.
Now, what _do_ you want to buy?" "To buy!
How do you sell them?" "Fivepence farthing for one-Twopence for two," the Sheep replied. "Then two are cheaper than one?
Alice said in a surprised tone, taking out her purse. "Only you _must_ eat them both, if you buy two," said the Sheep. "Then I'll have _one_, please," said Alice, as she put the money down on the counter.
The egg seems to get further away the more I walk towards it.
Let me see, is this a chair?
Why, it's got branches, I declare!
How very odd to find trees growing here!
It can't be anybody else!" she said to herself.
I'm as certain of it, as if his name were written all over his face." It might have been written a hundred times, easily, on that enormous face.
Humpty Dumpty interrupted impatiently. "What does it mean?" "_Must_ a name mean something?
Alice asked doubtfully. "Of course it must," Humpty Dumpty said with a short laugh: "_my_ name means the shape I am-and a good handsome shape it is, too.
With a name like yours, you might be any shape, almost." "Why do you sit out here all alone?" said Alice, not wishing to begin an argument. "Why, because there's nobody with me!" cried Humpty Dumpty.
Did you think I didn't know the answer to _that_?
Ask another." "Don't you think you'd be safer down on the ground?
Alice went on, not with any idea of making another riddle, but simply in her good-natured anxiety for the queer creature.
That wall is so _very_ narrow!" "What tremendously easy riddles you ask!
Humpty Dumpty growled out. "Of course I don't think so!
Humpty Dumpty cried, breaking into a sudden passion.
You've been listening at doors-and behind trees-and down chimneys-or you couldn't have known it!" "I haven't, indeed!
It's in a book." "Ah, well!
They may write such things in a _book_," Humpty Dumpty said in a calmer tone.
That's what you call a History of England, that is. Now, take a good look at me!
I'm one that has spoken to a King, _I_ am: mayhap you'll never see such another: and to show you I'm not proud, you may shake hands with me!
And he grinned almost from ear to ear, as he leant forwards (and as nearly as possible fell off the wall in doing so) and offered Alice his hand.
She watched him a little anxiously as she took it.
If he smiled much more, the ends of his mouth might meet behind," she thought: "and then I don't know what would happen to his head!
I'm afraid it would come off!" "Yes, all his horses and all his men," Humpty Dumpty went on.
They'd pick me up again in a minute, _they_ would!
How old did you say you were?" Alice made a short calculation, and said "Seven years and six months." "Wrong!
An uncomfortable sort of age.
Now if you'd asked _my_ advice, I'd have said 'Leave off at seven'-but it's too late now." "I never ask advice about growing," Alice said indignantly. "Too proud?" the other inquired. Alice felt even more indignant at this suggestion.
I mean," she said, "that one can't help growing older." "_One_ can't, perhaps," said Humpty Dumpty, "but _two_ can.
With proper assistance, you might have left off at seven." "What a beautiful belt you've got on!
If I only knew," she thought to herself, "which was neck and which was waist!" Evidently Humpty Dumpty was very angry, though he said nothing for a minute or two.
It's a present from the White King and Queen.
Alice said with a puzzled air. "I'm not offended," said Humpty Dumpty. "I mean, what _is_ an un-birthday present?" "A present given when it isn't your birthday, of course." Alice considered a little.
I like birthday presents best," she said at last. "You don't know what you're talking about!" cried Humpty Dumpty.
I'd rather see that done on paper," he said. Alice couldn't help smiling as she took out her memorandum-book, and worked the sum for him: 365 1 ____ 364 ___ Humpty Dumpty took the book, and looked at it carefully.
That seems to be done right-" he began. "You're holding it upside down!
Alice interrupted. "To be sure I was!
Humpty Dumpty said gaily, as she turned it round for him.
I thought it looked a little queer.
There's glory for you!" "I don't know what you mean by 'glory,'" Alice said. Humpty Dumpty smiled contemptuously.
Of course you don't-till I tell you.
They've a temper, some of them-particularly verbs, they're the proudest-adjectives you can do anything with, but not verbs-however, _I_ can manage the whole lot of them!
Impenetrability! That's what _I_ say!" "Would you tell me, please," said Alice "what that means?" "Now you talk like a reasonable child," said Humpty Dumpty, looking very much pleased.
Would you kindly tell me the meaning of the poem called 'Jabberwocky'?" "Let's hear it," said Humpty Dumpty.
Lithe' is the same as 'active.
To '_gimble_' is to make holes like a gimlet." "And '_the wabe_' is the grass-plot round a sun-dial, I suppose?" said Alice, surprised at her own ingenuity. "Of course it is.
It's called '_wabe_,' you know, because it goes a long way before it, and a long way behind it-" "And a long way beyond it on each side," Alice added. "Exactly so.
Well, then, '_mimsy_' is 'flimsy and miserable' (there's another portmanteau for you).
And a '_borogove_' is a thin shabby-looking bird with its feathers sticking out all round-something like a live mop." "And then '_mome raths_'?" said Alice.
I'm afraid I'm giving you a great deal of trouble." "Well, a '_rath_' is a sort of green pig: but '_mome_' I'm not certain about.
Who's been repeating all that hard stuff to you?" "I read it in a book," said Alice.
Alice timidly asked. "That's all," said Humpty Dumpty.
Good-bye." This was rather sudden, Alice thought: but, after such a _very_ strong hint that she ought to be going, she felt that it would hardly be civil to stay.
So she got up, and held out her hand.
Your face is the same as everybody has-the two eyes, so-" (marking their places in the air with this thumb) "nose in the middle, mouth under.
Now if you had the two eyes on the same side of the nose, for instance-or the mouth at the top-that would be _some_ help." "It wouldn't look nice," Alice objected.
Having four feet, these managed rather better than the foot-soldiers: but even _they_ stumbled now and then; and it seemed to be a regular rule that, whenever a horse stumbled the rider fell off instantly.
I couldn't send all the horses, you know, because two of them are wanted in the game.
And I haven't sent the two Messengers, either.
They're both gone to the town.
And at that distance, too!
Why, it's as much as _I_ can do to see real people, by this light!" All this was lost on Alice, who was still looking intently along the road, shading her eyes with one hand.
I see somebody now!" she exclaimed at last.
He's an Anglo-Saxon Messenger-and those are Anglo-Saxon attitudes.
He only does them when he's happy.
His name is Haigha." (He pronounced it so as to rhyme with "mayor.") "I love my love with an H," Alice couldn't help beginning, "because he is Happy.
I hate him with an H, because he is Hideous.
I fed him with-with-with Ham-sandwiches and Hay.
The other Messenger's called Hatta.
I must have _two_, you know-to come and go.
One to come, and one to go." "I beg your pardon?" said Alice. "It isn't respectable to beg," said the King. "I only meant that I didn't understand," said Alice.
Why one to come and one to go?" "Didn't I tell you?" the King repeated impatiently.
I must have _two_-to fetch and carry.
I said there was nothing _like_ it.
So of course Nobody walks slower than you." "I do my best," the Messenger said in a sulky tone.
Alice was sorry for this, as she wanted to hear the news too.
However, instead of whispering, he simply shouted at the top of his voice "They're at it again!" "Do you call _that_ a whisper?" cried the poor King, jumping up and shaking himself.
If you do such a thing again, I'll have you buttered! It went through and through my head like an earthquake!" "It would have to be a very tiny earthquake!" thought Alice.
Let's run and see them.
What an idea!" "Would you-be good enough," Alice panted out, after running a little further, "to stop a minute-just to get-one's breath again?" "I'm _good_ enough," the King said, "only I'm not strong enough.
You see, a minute goes by so fearfully quick.
But Hatta only munched away, and drank some more tea. "Speak, won't you!" cried the King.
How are they getting on with the fight?" Hatta made a desperate effort, and swallowed a large piece of bread-and-butter.
Haigha and Hatta set to work at once, carrying rough trays of white and brown bread.
Alice took a piece to taste, but it was _very_ dry. "I don't think they'll fight any more to-day," the King said to Hatta: "go and order the drums to begin.
And Hatta went bounding away like a grasshopper. For a minute or two Alice stood silent, watching him.
Look, look!" she cried, pointing eagerly.
There's the White Queen running across the country!
She came flying out of the wood over yonder-How fast those Queens _can_ run!" "There's some enemy after her, no doubt," the King said, without even looking round.
That wood's full of them." "But aren't you going to run and help her?
Alice asked, very much surprised at his taking it so quietly. "No use, no use!" said the King.
She runs so fearfully quick.
You might as well try to catch a Bandersnatch!
But I'll make a memorandum about her, if you like-She's a dear good creature," he repeated softly to himself, as he opened his memorandum-book.
Do you spell 'creature' with a double 'e'?" At this moment the Unicorn sauntered by them, with his hands in his pockets.
I had the best of it this time?" he said to the King, just glancing at him as he passed. "A little-a little," the King replied, rather nervously.
Haigha replied eagerly, coming in front of Alice to introduce her, and spreading out both his hands towards her in an Anglo-Saxon attitude.
We only found it to-day.
It's as large as life, and twice as natural!" "I always thought they were fabulous monsters!" said the Unicorn.
I never saw one alive before!" "Well, now that we _have_ seen each other," said the Unicorn, "if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.
Is that a bargain?" "Yes, if you like," said Alice. "Come, fetch out the plum-cake, old man!" the Unicorn went on, turning from her to the King.
None of your brown bread for me!" "Certainly-certainly!" the King muttered, and beckoned to Haigha.
Open the bag!" he whispered.
Not that one-that's full of hay!" Haigha took a large cake out of the bag, and gave it to Alice to hold, while he got out a dish and carving-knife.
How they all came out of it Alice couldn't guess.
It was just like a conjuring-trick, she thought. The Lion had joined them while this was going on: he looked very tired and sleepy, and his eyes were half shut.
What's this!" he said, blinking lazily at Alice, and speaking in a deep hollow tone that sounded like the tolling of a great bell. "Ah, what _is_ it, now?" the Unicorn cried eagerly.
You'll never guess! _I_ couldn't." The Lion looked at Alice wearily.
All round the town?" he said. "That's a good long way.
Did you go by the old bridge, or the market-place?
You get the best view by the old bridge." "I'm sure I don't know," the Lion growled out as he lay down again. "There was too much dust to see anything.
What a time the Monster is, cutting up that cake!" Alice had seated herself on the bank of a little brook, with the great dish on her knees, and was sawing away diligently with the knife.
It's very provoking!" she said, in reply to the Lion (she was getting quite used to being called "the Monster").
I've cut several slices already, but they always join on again!" "You don't know how to manage Looking-glass cakes," the Unicorn remarked.
The Monster has given the Lion twice as much as me!" "She's kept none for herself, anyhow," said the Lion.
Only I do hope it's _my_ dream, and not the Red King's!
Check!" and a Knight dressed in crimson armour came galloping down upon her, brandishing a great club.
Check!" and Alice looked round in some surprise for the new enemy. This time it was a White Knight.
He drew up at Alice's side, and tumbled off his horse just as the Red Knight had done: then he got on again, and the two Knights sat and looked at each other for some time without speaking.
Just like a whole set of fire-irons falling into the fender!
And how quiet the horses are!
I don't want to be anybody's prisoner.
I want to be a Queen." "So you will, when you've crossed the next brook," said the White Knight.
I'll see you safe to the end of the wood-and then I must go back, you know.
That's the end of my move." "Thank you very much," said Alice.
May I help you off with your helmet?
Alice looked at it with great curiosity. "I see you're admiring my little box." the Knight said in a friendly tone.
It's my own invention-to keep clothes and sandwiches in. You see I carry it upside-down, so that the rain can't get in." "But the things can get _out_," Alice gently remarked.
Do you know the lid's open?" "I didn't know it," the Knight said, a shade of vexation passing over his face.
Then all the things must have fallen out!
And the box is no use without them.
He unfastened it as he spoke, and was just going to throw it into the bushes, when a sudden thought seemed to strike him, and he hung it carefully on a tree.
But not a single bee has come near it yet. And the other thing is a mouse-trap.
I suppose the mice keep the bees out-or the bees keep the mice out, I don't know which." "I was wondering what the mouse-trap was for," said Alice.
That's the reason the horse has all those anklets round his feet." "But what are they for?
Alice asked in a tone of great curiosity. "To guard against the bites of sharks," the Knight replied.
It's an invention of my own.
And now help me on.
I'll go with you to the end of the wood-What's the dish for?" "It's meant for plum-cake," said Alice. "We'd better take it with us," the Knight said.
It'll come in handy if we find any plum-cake.
It's rather a tight fit, you see," he said, as they got it in a last; "There are so many candlesticks in the bag.
You see the wind is so _very_ strong here.
It's as strong as soup." "Have you invented a plan for keeping the hair from being blown off?" Alice enquired. "Not yet," said the Knight.
But I've got a plan for keeping it from _falling_ off." "I should like to hear it, very much." "First you take an upright stick," said the Knight.
Then you make your hair creep up it, like a fruit-tree.
Now the reason hair falls off is because it hangs _down_-things never fall _upwards_, you know.
It's a plan of my own invention.
The great art of riding, as I was saying, is-to keep your balance properly.
One or two-several." There was a short silence after this, and then the Knight went on again.
I'm a great hand at inventing things.
You see, I said to myself, 'The only difficulty is with the feet: the _head_ is high enough already.
Is that your invention too?" The Knight looked down proudly at his helmet, which hung from the saddle.
Yes," he said, "but I've invented a better one than that-like a sugar loaf.
When I used to wear it, if I fell off the horse, it always touched the ground directly.
So I had a _very_ little way to fall, you see-But there _was_ the danger of falling _into_ it, to be sure.
That happened to me once-and the worst of it was, before I could get out again, the other White Knight came and put it on.
And then he took the helmet off again-but it took hours and hours to get me out.
I was as fast as-as lightning, you know." "But that's a different kind of fastness," Alice objected. The Knight shook his head.
It was all kinds of fastness with me, I can assure you!" he said.
He raised his hands in some excitement as he said this, and instantly rolled out of the saddle, and fell headlong into a deep ditch. Alice ran to the side of the ditch to look for him.
She was rather startled by the fall, as for some time he had kept on very well, and she was afraid that he really _was_ hurt this time.
However, though she could see nothing but the soles of his feet, she was much relieved to hear that he was talking on in his usual tone.
All kinds of fastness," he repeated: "but it was careless of him to put another man's helmet on-with the man in it, too." "How _can_ you go on talking so quietly, head downwards?
Alice asked, as she dragged him out by the feet, and laid him in a heap on the bank. The Knight looked surprised at the question.
What does it matter where my body happens to be?" he said.
I suppose you wouldn't have two pudding-courses in one dinner?" "Well, not the _next_ day," the Knight repeated as before: "not the next _day_.
In fact," he went on, holding his head down, and his voice getting lower and lower, "I don't believe that pudding ever _was_ cooked!
In fact, I don't believe that pudding ever _will_ be cooked! And yet it was a very clever pudding to invent." "What did you mean it to be made of?
And here I must leave you.
Alice asked, for she had heard a good deal of poetry that day. "It's long," said the Knight, "but very, _very_ beautiful.
Everybody that hears me sing it-either it brings the _tears_ into their eyes, or else-" "Or else what?" said Alice, for the Knight had made a sudden pause. "Or else it doesn't, you know.
The name of the song is called '_Haddocks' Eyes_.'" "Oh, that's the name of the song, is it?
Alice said, trying to feel interested. "No, you don't understand," the Knight said, looking a little vexed. "That's what the name is _called_.
The name really _is_ '_The Aged Aged Man_.'" "Then I ought to have said 'That's what the _song_ is called'?
Alice corrected herself. "No, you oughtn't: that's quite another thing!
The _song_ is called '_Ways and Means_': but that's only what it's _called_, you know!" "Well, what _is_ the song, then?" said Alice, who was by this time completely bewildered. "I was coming to that," the Knight said.
You'll wait and wave your handkerchief when I get to that turn in the road?
It won't take long to see him _off_, I expect," Alice said to herself, as she stood watching him.
Right on his head as usual!
A very few steps brought her to the edge of the brook.
Oh, how glad I am to get here!
However, there would be no harm, she thought, in asking if the game was over.
Please, would you tell me-" she began, looking timidly at the Red Queen. "Speak when you're spoken to!
Why, don't you see, child-" here she broke off with a frown, and, after thinking for a minute, suddenly changed the subject of the conversation.
What do you mean by 'If you really are a Queen'?
What right have you to call yourself so?
You can't be a Queen, you know, till you've passed the proper examination.
Oh, ever so much more than that!" "So you did, you know," the Red Queen said to Alice.
Always speak the truth-think before you speak-and write it down afterwards." "I'm sure I didn't mean-" Alice was beginning, but the Red Queen interrupted her impatiently. "That's just what I complain of!
What do you suppose is the use of child without any meaning?
Even a joke should have some meaning-and a child's more important than a joke, I hope.
You couldn't deny that, even if you tried with both hands." "I don't deny things with my _hands_," Alice objected. "Nobody said you did," said the Red Queen.
Lessons teach you to do sums, and things of that sort." "And you do Addition?" the White Queen asked.
What's one and one and one and one and one and one and one and one and one and one?" "I don't know," said Alice.
I lost count." "She can't do Addition," the Red Queen interrupted.
Take nine from eight." "Nine from eight I can't, you know," Alice replied very readily: "but-" "She can't do Subtraction," said the White Queen.
Can you do Division? Divide a loaf by a knife-what's the answer to that?" "I suppose-" Alice was beginning, but the Red Queen answered for her. "Bread-and-butter, of course.
Take a bone from a dog: what remains?" Alice considered.
Alice said, turning suddenly on the White Queen, for she didn't like being found fault with so much. The Queen gasped and shut her eyes.
And I'll tell you a secret-I can read words of one letter!
You'll come to it in time." Here the Red Queen began again.
Can you answer useful questions?" she said.
How is bread made?" "I know _that_!
You take some flour-" "Where do you pick the flower?" the White Queen asked.
In a garden, or in the hedges?" "Well, it isn't _picked_ at all," Alice explained: "it's _ground_-" "How many acres of ground?" said the White Queen.
You mustn't leave out so many things." "Fan her head!" the Red Queen anxiously interrupted.
She'll be feverish after so much thinking.
So they set to work and fanned her with bunches of leaves, till she had to beg them to leave off, it blew her hair about so. "She's all right again now," said the Red Queen.
What's the French for fiddle-de-dee?" "Fiddle-de-dee's not English," Alice replied gravely. "Who ever said it was?" said the Red Queen. Alice thought she saw a way out of the difficulty this time.
What is the cause of lightning?" "The cause of lightning," Alice said very decidedly, for she felt quite certain about this, "is the thunder-no, no!" she hastily corrected herself.
In _our_ country," she remarked, "there's only one day at a time." The Red Queen said, "That's a poor thin way of doing things.
Now _here_, we mostly have days and nights two or three at a time, and sometimes in the winter we take as many as five nights together-for warmth, you know." "Are five nights warmer than one night, then?
Alice ventured to ask. "Five times as warm, of course." "But they should be five times as _cold_, by the same rule-" "Just so!" cried the Red Queen.
Five times as warm, _and_ five times as cold-just as I'm five times as rich as you are, _and_ five times as clever!" Alice sighed and gave it up.
It's exactly like a riddle with no answer!" she thought. "Humpty Dumpty saw it too," the White Queen went on in a low voice, more as if she were talking to herself.
He came to the door with a corkscrew in his hand-" "What did he want?" said the Red Queen. "He said he _would_ come in," the White Queen went on, "because he was looking for a hippopotamus.
Now, as it happened, there wasn't such a thing in the house, that morning." "Is there generally?
Alice asked in an astonished tone. "Well, only on Thursdays," said the Queen. "I know what he came for," said Alice: "he wanted to punish the fish, because-" Here the White Queen began again.
Pat her on the head, and see how pleased she'll be!
But this was more than Alice had courage to do. "A little kindness-and putting her hair in papers-would do wonders with her-" The White Queen gave a deep sigh, and laid her head on Alice's shoulder.
I _am_ so sleepy!" she moaned. "She's tired, poor thing!" said the Red Queen.
I don't think it _ever_ happened before, that any one had to take care of two Queens asleep at once!
No, not in all the History of England-it couldn't, you know, because there never was more than one Queen at a time.
I'm not a visitor, and I'm not a servant.
What's it been asking of?
He was so hoarse that Alice could scarcely hear him. "I don't know what you mean," she said. "I talks English, doesn't I?" the Frog went on.
What did it ask you?" "Nothing!
I've been knocking at it!" "Shouldn't do that-shouldn't do that-" the Frog muttered.
Then he went up and gave the door a kick with one of his great feet.
I wonder if any one's counting?
Alice repeated in despair, "Oh, that'll never be done!
You've missed the soup and fish," she said.
Remove the joint!" And the waiters carried it off, and brought a large plum-pudding in its place. "I won't be introduced to the pudding, please," Alice said rather hastily, "or we shall get no dinner at all.
May I give you some?" But the Red Queen looked sulky, and growled "Pudding-Alice; Alice-Pudding.
Bring back the pudding!" and there it was again in a moment like a conjuring-trick.
Shall she repeat it?" "Her Red Majesty's very kind to mention it," the White Queen murmured into Alice's other ear, in a voice like the cooing of a pigeon.
It would be _such_ a treat!
May I?" "Please do," Alice said very politely. The White Queen laughed with delight, and stroked Alice's cheek.
Something's going to happen!" And then (as Alice afterwards described it) all sorts of things happened in a moment.
The candles all grew up to the ceiling, looking something like a bed of rushes with fireworks at the top.
You woke me out of oh! such a nice dream!
And you've been along with me, Kitty-all through the Looking-Glass world.
Did you know it, dear?" It is a very inconvenient habit of kittens (Alice had once made the remark) that, whatever you say to them, they _always_ purr.
If they would only purr for 'yes' and mew for 'no,' or any rule of that sort," she had said, "so that one could keep up a conversation!
Now, Kitty!" she cried, clapping her hands triumphantly.
Alice cried with a merry laugh. "And curtsey while you're thinking what to-what to purr.
That must be the reason you were so untidy in my dream-Dinah! do you know that you're scrubbing a White Queen?
Really, it's most disrespectful of you! "And what did _Dinah_ turn to, I wonder?" she prattled on, as she settled comfortably down, with one elbow in the rug, and her chin in her hand, to watch the kittens.
Tell me, Dinah, did you turn to Humpty Dumpty?
To-morrow morning you shall have a real treat.
All the time you're eating your breakfast, I'll repeat 'The Walrus and the Carpenter' to you; and then you can make believe it's oysters, dear! "Now, Kitty, let's consider who it was that dreamed it all.
This is a serious question, my dear, and you should _not_ go on licking your paw like that-as if Dinah hadn't washed you this morning!
You see, Kitty, it _must_ have been either me or the Red King.
He was part of my dream, of course-but then I was part of his dream, too! _Was_ it the Red King, Kitty?
You were his wife, my dear, so you ought to know-Oh, Kitty, _do_ help to settle it!
I'm sure your paw can wait!
The helmsman used to stand by with tears in his eyes; he knew it was all wrong, but alas!
Rule 42 of the Code, "No one shall speak to the Man at the Helm," had been completed by the Bellman himself with the words "and the Man at the Helm shall speak to no one.
So remonstrance was impossible, and no steering could be done till the next varnishing day.
The "i" in "slithy" is long, as in "writhe"; and "toves" is pronounced so as to rhyme with "groves." Again, the first "o" in "borogoves" is pronounced like the "o" in "borrow.
I have heard people try to give it the sound of the "o" in "worry".
Such is Human Perversity. This also seems a fitting occasion to notice the other hard words in that poem.
Humpty-Dumpty's theory, of two meanings packed into one word like a portmanteau, seems to me the right explanation for all. For instance, take the two words "fuming" and "furious.
Make up your mind that you will say both words, but leave it unsettled which you will first.
Now open your mouth and speak.
I have said it twice: That alone should encourage the crew. Just the place for a Snark!
Not even a shriek!" And excitedly tingled his bell. There was silence supreme!
Keep count, I entreat; You will find I have told it you twice. 'Tis the song of the Jubjub!
THE WORLD FACTBOOK 1990 ELECTRONIC VERSION The World Factbook is produced annually by the Central Intelligence Agency for the use of United States Government officials, and the style, format, coverage, and content are designed to meet their specific requirements.
In the Government section the former Branches entry has been replaced by three entries--Executive branch, Legislative branch, and Judicial branch.
The Leaders entry now has subentries for Chief of State, Head of Government, and their deputies.
Changes that have been reported but not yet acted upon by BGN are noted. Area: Total area is the sum of all land and water areas delimited by international boundaries and/or coastlines.
Land area is the aggregate of all surfaces delimited by international boundaries and/or coastlines, excluding inland water bodies (lakes, reservoirs, rivers). Comparative areas are based on total area equivalents.
Most entities are compared with the entire US or one of the 50 states.
The smaller entities are compared with Washington, DC (178 km2, 69 miles2) or The Mall in Washington, DC (0.59 km2, 0.23 miles2, 146 acres). Birth rate: The average annual number of births during a year per 1,000 population at midyear.
Population figures are estimates for 1 July 1990, with population growth rates estimated for mid-1990 through mid-1991.
Major political events have been updated through 30 March 1990.
Military age figures are average annual estimates for 1990-94. Death rate: The average annual number of deaths during a year per l,000 population at midyear.
Also known as crude death rate. Diplomatic representation: The US Government has diplomatic relations with 162 nations.
There are only 144 US embassies, since some nations have US ambassadors accredited to them, but no physical US mission exists.
Every international land boundary dispute in the "Guide to International Boundaries," a map published by the Department of State, is included.
Nation refers to a people politically organized into a sovereign state with a definite territory.
Dependent area refers to a broad category of political entities that are associated in some way with a nation.
Names used for page headings are usually the short-form names as approved by the US Board on Geographic Names.
The long-form name is included in the Government section and an entry of "none" indicates a long-form name does not exist.
Those Baltic states are not members of the UN and are not included in the list of nations.
Natural narcotics include opium (paregoric, parepectolin), morphine (MS-Contin, Roxanol), codeine (Tylenol w/codeine, Empirin w/codeine, Robitussan A-C), and thebaine.
Semisynthetic narcotics include heroin (horse, smack), and hydromorphone (Dilaudid).
The head of government is the administrative leader who manages the day-to-day activities of the government.
In the UK, the monarch is the chief of state and the prime minister is the head of government.
Also referred to as an offshore register, the offshore equivalent of an internal register.
Ships on a captive register will fly the same flag as the parent country, or a local variant of it, but will be subject to the maritime laws and taxation rules of the offshore territory.
Although the nature of a captive register makes it especially desirable for ships owned in the parent country, just as in the internal register, the ships may also be owned abroad.
The captive register then acts as a flag of convenience register, except that it is not the register of an independent state. Flag of convenience register--A national register offering registration to a merchant ship not owned in the flag state.
The major flags of convenience (FOC) attract ships to their register by virtue of low fees, low or nonexistent taxation of profits, and liberal manning requirements.
True FOC registers are characterized by having relatively few of the ships registered actually owned in the flag state.
Thus, while virtually any flag can be used for ships under a given set of circumstances, an FOC register is one where the majority of the merchant fleet is owned abroad.
It is also referred to as an open register. Flag state--The nation in which a ship is registered and which holds legal jurisdiction over operation of the ship, whether at home or abroad.
Differences in flag state maritime legislation determine how a ship is manned and taxed and whether a foreign-owned ship may be placed on the register. Internal register--A register of ships maintained as a subset of a national register.
Ships on the internal register fly the national flag and have that nationality but are subject to a separate set of maritime rules from those on the main national register.
These differences usually include lower taxation of profits, manning by foreign nationals, and, usually, ownership outside the flag state (when it functions as an FOC register).
The Norwegian International Ship Register and Danish International Ship Register are the most notable examples of an internal register.
Both have been instrumental in stemming flight from the national flag to flags of convenience and in attracting foreign-owned ships to the Norwegian and Danish flags. Merchant ship--A vessel that carries goods against payment of freight.
Commonly used to denote any nonmilitary ship but accurately restricted to commercial vessels only. Register--The record of a ship's ownership and nationality as listed with the maritime authorities of a country.
Also, the compendium of such individual ships' registrations.
Economic considerations, however, have played second fiddle to political and military upheavals, including the nine-year Soviet military occupation (ended 15 February 1989) and the continuing bloody civil war.
Over the past decade, one-third of the population has fled the country, with Pakistan sheltering some 3 million refugees and Iran perhaps 2 million.
Another 1 million have probably moved into and around urban areas within Afghanistan.
Large numbers of bridges, buildings, and factories have been destroyed or damaged by military action or sabotage.
Government claims to the contrary, gross domestic product almost certainly is lower than 10 years ago because of the loss of labor and capital and the disruption of trade and transport.
In recent years Albania has implemented limited economic reforms to stimulate its lagging economy, although they do not go nearly so far as current reforms in the USSR and Eastern Europe.
Attempts at self-reliance and a policy of not borrowing from international lenders--sometimes overlooked in recent years--have greatly hindered the development of a broad economic infrastructure.
Albania, however, possesses considerable mineral resources and is largely self-sufficient in food.
ROSS; Embassy at 4 Chemin Cheich Bachir Brahimi, Algiers (mailing address is B.
Algeria depends on hydrocarbons for nearly all of its export receipts, about 30% of government revenues, and nearly 25% of GDP.
In 1973-74 the sharp increase in oil prices led to a booming economy that helped to finance an ambitious program of industrialization.
Plunging oil and gas prices, combined with the mismanagement of Algeria's highly centralized economy, have brought the nation to its most serious social and economic crisis since independence.
The government has promised far-reaching reforms, including giving public sector companies more autonomy, encouraging private-sector activity, boosting gas and nonhydrocarbon exports, and a major overhaul of the banking and financial systems.
Tuna fishing and tuna processing plants are the backbone of the private sector economy, with canned tuna the primary export.
The tuna canneries are the second-largest employer, exceeded only by the government.
Other economic activities include meat canning, handicrafts, dairy farming, and a slowly developing tourist industry.
An estimated 12 million tourists visit annually, attracted by Andorra's duty-free status and by its summer and winter resorts.
Agricultural production is limited by a scarcity of arable land, and most food has to be imported.
The principal livestock activity is sheep raising.
Manufacturing consists mainly of cigarettes, cigars, and furniture.
Oil production is the most lucrative sector of the economy, contributing about 50% to GDP.
In recent years the economy has benefited from a boom in tourism.
Development is planned to improve the infrastructure, particularly transport and tourist facilities, and also light industry.
Claimant nations are--Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, New Zealand, Norway, and the UK.
During the period 1983-87, real GDP expanded at an annual average rate of 8%.
Nevertheless, the economy has encountered major problems in recent years, leading to a recession in 1988-89. Economic growth slowed to 2.0% in 1987 and to - 1.8% in 1988; a sharp decline of - 5.5% has been estimated for 1989.
In 1985 the economy suffered a severe blow when Exxon closed its refinery, a major source of employment and foreign exchange earnings.
Economic collapse was prevented by soft loans from the Dutch Government and by a booming tourist industry. Hotel capacity expanded by 20% between 1985 and 1987 and is projected to more than double by 1990.
COOK; Chancery at 1601 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington DC 20036; telephone (202) 797-3000; there are Australian Consulates General in Chicago, Honolulu, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, Pago Pago (American Samoa), and San Francisco; US--Ambassador Melvin F.
Rich in natural resources, Australia is a major exporter of agricultural products, minerals, metals, and fossil fuels.
Of the top 25 exports, 21 are primary products, so that, as happened during 1983-84, a downturn in world commodity prices can have a big impact on the economy.
Living standards are roughly comparable with the large industrial countries of Western Europe.
MCDONALD; Chancery at Suite 865, 600 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington DC 20037; telephone (202) 944-3390; there are Bahamian Consulates General in Miami and New York; US--Ambassador Chic HECHT; Embassy at Mosmar Building, Queen Street, Nassau (mailing address is P.
Tourism alone provides about 50% of GDP and directly or indirectly employs about 50,000 people or 40% of the local work force.
The economy has boomed in recent years, aided by a steady annual increase in the number of tourists.
HOSTLER; Embassy at Shaikh Isa Road, Manama (mailing address is P.
Petroleum production and processing account for about 85% of export receipts, 60% of government revenues, and 20% of GDP.
In 1986 soft oil-market conditions led to a 5% drop in GDP, in sharp contrast wit the 5% average annual growth rate during the early 1980s.
The slowdown in economic activity, however, has helped to check the inflation of the 1970s.
Sabur; Jatiyo Samajtantrik Dal (National Socialist Party), M.
Ataul KARIM; Chancery at 2201 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington DC 20007; telephone (202) 342-8372 through 8376; there is a Bangladesh Consulate General in New York; US--Ambassador-designate William B.
MILAM; Embassy at Diplomatic Enclave, Madani Avenue, Baridhara Model Town, Dhaka (mailing address is G.
One of the poorest nations in the world, alleviation of poverty remains the cornerstone of the government's development strategy.
The agricultural sector contributes over 50% to GDP and 75% to exports, and employs over 74% of the labor force.
Philip HUGHES; Embassy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce Building, Broad Street, Bridgetown (mailing address is P.
Historically, the economy was based on the cultivation of sugarcane and related activities.
In recent years, however, the economy has diversified into manufacturing and tourism.
The tourist industry is now a major employer of the labor force and a primary source of foreign exchange.
Industry is concentrated mainly in the populous Flemish area in the north, although the government is encouraging reinvestment in the southern region of Walloon.
With few natural resources Belgium must import essential raw materials, making its economy closely dependent on the state of world markets.
In 1988 over 70% of trade was with other EC countries.
During the period 1986-88 the economy profited from falling oil prices and a lower dollar, which helped to improve the terms of trade.
Real GDP grew by an average of 3.5% in 1986-89, up from 1.5% in 1985.
LAING; Chancery at Suite 2J, 3400 International Drive NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 363-4505; US--Ambassador Robert G.
RICH, Jr.; Embassy at Gabourel Lane and Hutson Street, Belize City (mailing address is P.
Agriculture accounts for more than 30% of GDP and provides 75% of export earnings, while sugar, the chief crop, accounts for almost 40% of hard currency earnings.
The US, Belize's main trading partner, is assisting in efforts to reduce dependency on sugar with an agricultural diversification program.
MEDAS; Consulate General at Vallis Building, Par-la-Ville Road (off Front Street West), Hamilton (mailing address is P.
The tourist industry attracts more than 90% of its business from North America.
The industrial sector is small, and agriculture is severely limited by a lack of suitable land.
One of the world's least developed countries, rugged mountains dominate and make the building of roads and other infrastructure difficult and expensive.
An austere orthodox economic program adopted by newly elected President Paz Estenssoro in 1985, however, succeeded in reducing inflation to between 10% and 20% annually during 1987 and 1989, eventually restarting economic growth.
President Paz Zamora has pledged to retain the economic policies of the previous government in order to keep inflation down and continue the growth begun under his predecessor.
Nevertheless, Bolivia continues to be one of the poorest countries in Latin America, and it remains vulnerable to price fluctuations for its limited exports--mainly minerals and natural gas.
MASIRE (since 13 July 1980); Vice President Peter S.
Box 90, Gaborone); telephone [267] 353982 through 353984 Flag: light blue with a horizontal white-edged black stripe in the center - Economy Overview: The economy has historically been based on cattle raising and crops.
Agriculture today provides a livelihood for over 80% of the population, but produces only about 50% of food needs and contributes a small 5% to GDP.
The driving force behind the rapid economic growth of the 1970s and 1980s has been the mining industry.
This sector, mostly on the strength of diamonds, has gone from generating 25% of GDP in 1980 to over 50% in 1988.
No other sector has experienced such growth, especially not that of the agricultural sector, which is plagued by erratic rainfall and poor soils.
The unemployment rate remains a problem at 25%.
Government intervention includes trade and investment restrictions, wage/price controls, interest and exchange rate controls, and extensive tariff barriers.
Ownership of major industrial facilities is divided among private interests, the government, and multinational companies.
None of these has given more than temporary relief.
The strategy of the new Collor government is to increase the pace of privatization, encourage foreign trade and investment, and establish a more realistic exchange rate.
Lavity STOUTT (since NA 1986) Political parties and leaders: United Party (UP), Conrad Maduro; Virgin Islands Party (VIP), H.
Lavity Stoutt; Independent People's Movement (IPM), Cyril B.
In 1985 the government offered offshore registration to companies wishing to incorporate in the islands, and, in consequence, incorporation fees generated about $2 million in 1987.
Livestock raising is the most significant agricultural activity.
PHILLIPS; Embassy at Teck Guan Plaza (corner of Jalan McArthur), Bandar Seri Begawan (mailing address is P.
It is almost totally supported by exports of crude oil and natural gas, with revenues from the petroleum sector accounting for more than 70% of GDP.
Per capita GDP of $9,600 is among the highest in the Third World, and substantial income from overseas investment supplements domestic production.
But the ruling group cannot (so far) bring itself to give up ultimate control over economic affairs exercised through the vertical Party/ministerial command structure.
Reforms have not led to improved economic performance, in particular the provision of more and better consumer goods.
SHINN; Embassy at Avenue Raoul Follerau, Ouagadougou (mailing address is B.
Economic development is hindered by a poor communications network within a landlocked country.
Agriculture provides about 40% of GDP and is entirely of a subsistence nature.
The government reports negligible growth for FY88.
The nation has been unable to achieve any significant improvement in export earnings because of falling prices for many of its major commodity exports.
For rice, traditionally the most important export, the drop in world prices has been accompanied by shrinking markets and a smaller volume of sales.
In 1985 teak replaced rice as the largest export and continues to hold this position.
The economy is based on agriculture and related industries.
Over the past decade Cambodia has been slowly recovering from its near destruction by war and political upheaval.
It still remains, however, one of the world's poorest countries, with an estimated per capita GDP of about $130.
The food situation is precarious; during the 1980s famine has been averted only through international relief.
In 1986 the production level of rice, the staple food crop, was able to meet only 80% of domestic needs.
The biggest success of the nation's recovery program has been in new rubber plantings and in fishing.
Industry, other than rice processing, is almost nonexistent.
Real GDP growth annually averaged 10% from 1978 to 1985.
In 1986 Cameroon had one of the highest levels of income per capita in tropical Africa, with oil revenues picking up the slack as growth in other sectors softened.
Because of the sharp drop in oil prices, however, the economy is now experiencing serious budgetary difficulties and balance-of-payments disequalibrium.
Oil reserves currently being exploited will be depleted in the early 1990s, so ways must be found to boost agricultural and industrial exports in the medium term.
NEY; Embassy at 100 Wellington Street, K1P 5T1, Ottawa (mailing address is P.
Since World War II the impressive growth of the manufacturing, mining, and service sectors has transformed the nation from a largely rural economy into one primarily industrial and urban.
In the 1980s Canada registered one of the highest rates of growth among the OECD nations, averaging about 4%.
With its great natural resources, skilled labor force, and modern capital plant, Canada has excellent economic prospects.
The economy is service oriented, with commerce, transport, and public services accounting for 60% of GDP during the period 1984-86.
Although nearly 70% of the population lives in rural areas, agriculture's share of GDP is only 16%; the fishing and manufacturing sectors are 4% each.
About 90% of food must be imported.
The fishing potential of the islands is not fully exploited (the fish catch--mostly lobster and tuna--came to only 10,000 tons in 1985).
About 90% of the islands' food and consumer goods needs must be imported.
SIMPSON; Embassy at Avenue du President David Dacko, Bangui (mailing address is B.
In 1988 the agricultural sector generated about 40% of GDP, mining and manufacturing 14%, utilities and construction 4%, and services 41%.
Agricultural products accounted for about 60% of export earnings and the diamond industry for 30%.
Important constraints to economic development include the CAR's landlocked position, a poor transportation infrastructure, and a weak human resource base.
BOGOSIAN; Charge d'Affaires, Julius WALKER; Embassy at Avenue Felix Eboue, N'Djamena (mailing address is B.
Its economy is slowly recovering from the ravaging effects of prolonged civil war, conflict with Libya, drought, and food shortages.
In 1986 real GDP returned to its 1977 level, with cotton, the major cash crop, accounting for 43% of exports.
Over 80% of the work force is employed in subsistence farming and fishing.
Industry is based almost entirely on the processing of agricultural products, including cotton, sugarcane, and cattle.
Copper accounts for nearly 50% of export revenues; Chile's economic well-being thus remains highly dependent on international copper prices.
Unemployment and inflation rates have declined from their peaks in 1982 to 5.3% and 21.4%, respectively, in 1989.
The most gratifying result has been a strong spurt in production, particularly in agriculture in the early 1980s.
Otherwise, the leadership has often experienced in its hybrid system the worst results of socialism (bureaucracy, lassitude, corruption) and of capitalism (windfall gains and stepped-up inflation).
Beijing thus has periodically backtracked, retightening central controls at intervals and thereby undermining the credibility of the reform process.
Open inflation and excess demand continue to plague the economy, and political repression, following the crackdown at Tiananmen in mid-1989, has curtailed tourism, foreign aid, and new investment by foreign firms.
Copra and fresh coconuts are the major export earners.
Conservative economic policies have encouraged investment and kept inflation and unemployment under 30% and 10%, respectively.
The rapid development of oil, coal, and other nontraditional industries over the past four years has helped to offset the decline in coffee prices--Colombia's major export.
WALKER, resides in Antananarivo (Madagascar); Embassy at address NA, Moroni (mailing address B.
The low educational level of the labor force contributes to a low level of economic activity, high unemployment, and a heavy dependence on foreign technical assistance. Agriculture, including fishing and forestry, is the leading sector of the economy.
It contributes about 40% to GDP, employs 80% of the labor force, and provides most of the exports.
In the early 1980s rapidly rising oil revenues enabled Congo to finance large-scale development projects with growth averaging 5% annually, one of the highest rates in Africa.
The major export earners are fruit, copra, and clothing.
Manufacturing activities are limited to a fruit-processing plant and several clothing factories.
Economic development is hindered by the isolation of the islands from foreign markets and a lack of natural resources and good transportation links.
A large trade deficit is annually made up for by remittances from emigrants and from foreign aid.
Gains in agricultural production (on the strength of good coffee and banana crops) and in construction, were partially offset by declines in the rates of growth for the industry and commerce sectors.
In 1988 consumer prices rose by nearly 21% followed by a 10% rise in 1989.
Unemployment is officially reported at about 6%, but much underemployment remains.
Sugar provides about 75% of export revenues and is mostly exported to the USSR and other CEMA countries.
The economy has stagnated since 1985 under a program that has deemphasized material incentives in the workplace, abolished farmers' informal produce markets, and raised prices of government-supplied goods and services.
Castro has complained that the ongoing CEMA reform process has interfered with the regular flow of goods to Cuba.
Recently the government has been trying to increase trade with Latin America and China.
Cuba has had difficulty servicing its foreign debt since 1982.
The government currently is encouraging foreign investment in tourist facilities.
Other investment priorities include sugar, basic foods, and nickel.
Its industry, transport, energy sources, banking, and most other means of production are state owned.
The country is deficient, however, in energy and many raw materials. Moreover, its aging capital plant lags well behind West European standards.
Industry contributes over 50% to GNP and construction 10%. About 95% of agricultural land is in collectives or state farms.
The centrally planned economy has been tightly linked in trade (80%) to the USSR and Eastern Europe.
Growth has been sluggish, averaging less than 2% in the period 1982-89.
Growth in output, however, has been sluggish in 1987-89, and unemployment in early 1989 stood at 9.6% of the labor force.
BARRETT IV; Embassy at Villa Plateau du Serpent Boulevard, Marechal Joffre, Djibouti (mailing address is B.
Djibouti provides services as both a transit port for the region and an international transshipment and refueling center.
It has few natural resources and little industry.
Agriculture accounts for about 30% of GDP and employs 40% of the labor force.
Principal products include bananas, coconuts, citrus, and root crops.
In 1988 the economy achieved a 5.6% growth in real GDP on the strength of a boost in construction, higher agricultural production, and growth of the small manufacturing sector based on soap and garment industries.
Industry is based on the processing of agricultural products, durable consumer goods, minerals, and chemicals.
Rapid growth of free trade zones has established a significant expansion of manufacturing for export, especially wearing apparel.
LAMBERT; Embassy at Avenida Patria 120, on the corner of Avenida 12 de Octubre, Quito (mailing address is P.
The Borja administration has pursued austere economic policies that have helped reduce inflation and restore international reserves.
Overregulation holds back technical modernization and foreign investment.
As part of the 1987 agreement with the IMF, the government agreed to institute a reform program to reduce inflation, promote economic growth, and improve its external position.
The reforms have been slow in coming, however, and the economy has been largely stagnant for the past three years.
Real GDP grew by 1.5% a year on the strength of value added by the manufacturing and service sectors. In 1987 the economy expanded by 2.5% as agricultural output recovered from the 1986 drought.
The agricultural sector accounts for 25% of GDP, employs about 40% of the labor force, and contributes about 66% to total exports.
Coffee is the major commercial crop, contributing 60% to export earnings.
The manufacturing sector, based largely on food and beverage processing, accounts for 17% of GDP and 16% of employment.
Economic losses due to guerrilla sabotage total more than $2.0 billion since 1979.
NORRIS, Jr.; Embassy at Calle de Los Ministros, Malabo (mailing address is P.
Commerce accounts for about 10% of GNP, and the construction, public works, and service sectors for about 34%.
Undeveloped natural resources include titanium, iron ore, manganese, uranium, and alluvial gold.
HOUDEK; Embassy at Entoto Street, Addis Ababa (mailing address is P.O.
Its economy is based on subsistence agriculture, which accounts for about 45% of GDP, 90% of exports, and 80% of total employment; coffee generates over 60% of export earnings.
The manufacturing sector is heavily dependent on inputs from the agricultural sector.
The economy is centrally planned, and over 90% of large-scale industry is state run.
A few dairy herds are kept to meet domestic consumption of milk and milk products, and crops grown are primarily those for providing winter fodder.
Major sources of income are from the export of high-grade wool to the UK and the sale of stamps and coins.
These license fees amount to more than $25 million per year.
It employs over 25% of the labor force, accounts for about 25% of GDP, and contributes over 80% to export revenues.
A handicraft industry employs about 20% of the labor force.
Because of cool summers agricultural activities are limited to raising sheep and to potato and vegetable cultivation.
There is a labor shortage, and immigrant workers accounted for 5% of the work force in 1989.
YUSUF; Chancery at Suite 240, 2233 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007; telephone (202) 337-8320; there is a Fijian Consulate in New York; US--Ambassador Leonard ROCHWARGER; Embassy at 31 Loftus Street, Suva (mailing address is P.
Sugar exports are a major source of foreign exchange and sugar processing accounts for one-third of industrial output. Industry, including sugar milling, contributes 10% to GDP.
Fiji traditionally earned considerable sums of hard currency from the 250,000 tourists who visited each year.
In 1987, however, after two military coups, the economy went into decline.
GDP dropped by 7.8% in 1987 and by another 2.5% in 1988; political uncertainly created a drop in tourism, and the worst drought of the century caused sugar production to fall sharply.
Trade is important, with the export of goods representing about 25% of GNP.
Except for timber and several minerals, Finland depends on imported raw materials, energy, and some components of manufactured goods.
Large tracts of fertile land, the application of modern technology, and subsidies have combined to make it the leading agricultural producer in Western Europe.
France is largely self-sufficient in agricultural products and is a major exporter of wheat and dairy products.
The industrial sector generates about one-third of GDP and employs about one-third of the work force.
During the period 1982-86 economic growth was sluggish, averaging only 1.4% annually.
This trend was reversed by late 1987, however, with a strong expansion of consumer demand, followed by a surge in investment.
Besides the French space center at Kourou, fishing and forestry are the most important economic activities, with exports of fish and fish products (mostly shrimp) accounting for about two-thirds of total revenue in 1985.
The large reserves of tropical hardwoods, not fully exploited, support an expanding sawmill industry that provides sawn logs for export.
Cultivation of crops--rice, cassava, bananas, and sugarcane--are limited to the coastal area, where the population is largely concentrated.
French Guiana is heavily dependent on imports of food and energy.
WAUCHOPE; Embassy at Boulevard de la Mer, Libreville (mailing address is B.
During the period 1981-85 oil accounted for about 46% of GDP, 83% of export earnings, and 65% of government revenues on average.
SALLAH; Chancery at Suite 720, 1030 15th Street NW, Washington DC 20005; telephone (202) 842-1356 or 842-1359; US--Ambassador (vacant); Embassy at Pipeline Road (Kairaba Avenue), Fajara, Banjul (mailing address is P.
It is one of the world's poorest countries with a per capita income of about $250.
About 75% of the population is engaged in crop production and livestock raising, which contributes about 30% to GDP.
Small-scale manufacturing activity--processing peanuts, fish, and hides--accounts for less than 10% of GDP.
Tourism is a growing industry.
The Gambia imports about 33% of its food, all fuel, and most manufactured goods.
Camp David further specifies that these negotiations will resolve the respective boundaries.
Pending the completion of this process, it is US policy that the final status of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip has yet to be determined.
In the view of the US, the term West Bank describes all of the area west of the Jordan under Jordanian administration before the 1967 Arab-Israeli war.
It is US policy that the final status of the Gaza Strip will be determined by negotiations among the concerned parties.
The once dominant agricultural sector now contributes only 13% to GNP, about the same as that of the construction sector, and industry accounts for 7%.
Gaza depends upon Israel for 90% of its imports and as a market for 80% of its exports.
As the 1990s begin, economic integration with West Germany appears inevitable, beginning with the establishment of a common currency.
The opening of the border with the FRG in late 1989 and the continuing emigration of hundreds of thousands of skilled workers had brought growth to a standstill by yearend 1989.
Once integrated into the thriving West German economy, the area will have to stem the outflow of workers and renovate the obsolescent industrial base.
The FRG is poor in natural resources, coal being the most important mineral.
The FRG's comparative advantage lies in the technologically advanced production stages.
Thus manufacturing and services dominate economic activity, and raw materials and semimanufactures constitute a large proportion of imports.
In 1988 manufacturing accounted for 35% of GDP, with other sectors contributing lesser amounts.
The major economic problem in 1989 is persistent unemployment of over 8%.
The FRG is well poised to take advantage of the increasing economic integration of the European Community.
OTOO; Chancery at 2460 16th Street NW, Washington DC 20009; telephone (202) 462-0761; there is a Ghanaian Consulate General in New York; US--Ambassador Raymond C.
EWING; Embassy at Ring Road East, East of Danquah Circle, Accra (mailing address is P.
Moves toward privatization and relaxation of government controls continued in 1988-89, although at a slower-than-expected pace.
In 1988 service on the $2.8 billion debt was equivalent to 75% of export earnings.
As Ghana obtains concessional loans and pays off high-interest debt, however, debt service is expected to fall below 30% of export earnings in the early 1990s.
The economic rebuilding program has both helped and harmed the manufacturing sector, for example, by improving the supply of raw materials and by increasing competition from imports.
Because more than 70% of the economy is in the public sector, changes in government spending have a major impact on the level of employment.
Like many other Western economies, Greece suffered severely from the global oil price hikes of the 1970s, annual GDP growth plunging from 8% to 2% in the 1980s, and inflation, unemployment, and budget deficits rising sharply.
Fishing is still the most important industry, accounting for over two-thirds of exports and about 25% of the population's income. Exploitation of mineral resources is limited to lead and zinc.
Maintenance of a social welfare system similar to Denmark's has given the public sector a dominant role in the economy.
XAVIER; Chancery at 1701 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington DC 20009; telephone (202) 265-2561; there is a Grenadian Consulate General in New York; US--Charge d'Affaires James F.
COOPER; Embassy at Ross Point Inn, Saint George's (mailing address is P.
Agriculture accounts for about 20% of GDP and 90% of exports and employs 24% of the labor force.
Tourism is the leading foreign exchange earner, followed by agricultural exports. Manufacturing remains relatively undeveloped, but with a more favorable private investment climate since 1983, it is expected to grow.
It is also dependent upon France for large subsidies and income and social transfers.
Tourism is a key industry, with most tourists from the US.
In addition, an increasingly large number of cruise ships visit the islands.
The traditionally important sugarcane crop is slowly being replaced by other crops, such as bananas (which now supply about 50% of export earnings), eggplant, and flowers.
Other vegetables and root crops are cultivated for local consumption, although Guadeloupe is still dependent on imported food, which comes mainly from France.
Light industry consists mostly of sugar and rum production.
Over the past 20 years the tourist industry has grown rapidly, creating a construction boom for new hotels and the expansion of older ones.
Visitors numbered about 800,000 in 1989.
The small manufacturing sector includes textile and clothing, beverage, food, and watch production.
About 58% of the labor force works for the private sector and the rest for government.
Most food and industrial goods are imported, with about 75% from the US.
Industry accounts for about 20% of GDP and 15% of the labor force.
The economy has reentered a slow-growth phase, but is hampered by political uncertainty.
In 1988 the economy grew by 3.7%, the third consecutive year of mild growth.
Government economic reforms introduced since 1986 have stabilized exchange rates and have helped to stem inflationary pressures.
LUPO; Embassy at 2nd Boulevard and 9th Avenue, Conakry (mailing address is B.
The agricultural sector contributes about 40% to GDP and employs more than 80% of the work force, while industry accounts for about 25% of GDP.
JACOBSEN; Embassy at 17 Avenida Domingos Ramos, Bissau (mailing address is C.
Agriculture and fishing are the main economic activities, with cashew nuts, peanuts, and palm kernels the primary exports. Exploitation of known mineral deposits is unlikely at present because of a weak infrastructure and the high cost of development.
Moreover, electric power is in short supply and constitutes a major barrier to future gains in national output.
The government, in association with international financial agencies, seeks to reduce its payment arrears and to raise new funds.
The majority of the population does not have ready access to safe drinking water, adequate medical care, or sufficient food.
Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy, accounting for nearly 30% of GDP, employing 62% of the labor force, and producing two-thirds of exports.
Productivity remains low, however, leaving considerable room for improvement.
Although industry is still in its early stages, it employs nearly 15% of the labor force, accounts for 23% of GDP, and generates 20% of exports.
The service sectors, including public administration, account for 48% of GDP and employ nearly 20% of the labor force.
Natural resources are limited and food and raw materials must be imported.
Manufacturing is the backbone of the economy, accounting for more than 20% of GDP, employing 36% of the labor force, and exporting about 90% of output.
Real GDP growth averaged a remakable 8% in 1987-88, then slowed to a respectable 3% in 1989.
Unemployment, which has been declining since the mid-1980s, is now less than 2%.
A shortage of labor continues to put upward pressure on prices and the cost of living.
Short-term prospects remain solid so long as major trading partners continue to be prosperous.
The share of the labor force in agriculture dropped from over 50% in 1950 to under 20% in 1989.
Agriculture nevertheless remains an important sector, providing sizable export earnings and meeting domestic food needs. Industry accounts for about 40% of GNP and 30% of employment.
Nearly three-fourths of foreign trade is with the USSR and Eastern Europe.
Low rates of growth reflect the inability of the Soviet-style economy to modernize capital plant and motivate workers.
GNP grew about 1% in 1988 and declined by 1% in 1989.
Since 1985 external debt has more than doubled, to nearly $20 billion.
In recent years Hungary has moved further than any other East European country in experimenting with decentralized and market-oriented enterprises.
INGVARSSON; Chancery at 2022 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 265-6653 through 6655; there is an Icelandic Consulate General in New York; US--Ambassador Charles E.
The economy is heavily dependent on the fishing industry, which provides nearly 75% of export earnings.
In the absence of other natural resources, Iceland's economy is vulnerable to changing world fish prices.
National output declined for the second consecutive year in 1989, and two of the largest fish farms filed for bankruptcy.
Other economic activities include livestock raising and aluminum smelting.
Singh; Congress (I) Party, Rajiv Gandhi; Bharatiya Janata Party, L.
Advani; Communist Party of India (CPI), C.
Rajeswara Rao; Communist Party of India/Marxist (CPI/M), E.
Namboodiripad; Communist Party of India/Marxist-Leninist (CPI/ML), Satyanarayan Singh; All-India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazagham (AIADMK), a regional party in Tamil Nadu, Jayalalitha; Dravida Munnetra Kazagham, M.
Karunanidhi; Akali Dal factions representing Sikh religious community in the Punjab; Telugu Desam, a regional party in Andhra Pradesh, N.
It presents both the entrepreneurial skills and drives of the capitalist system and widespread government intervention of the socialist mold.
Growth of 4% to 5% annually in the 1980s has softened the impact of population growth on unemployment, social tranquility, and the environment.
Agricultural output has continued to expand, reflecting the greater use of modern farming techniques and improved seed that have helped to make India self-sufficient in food grains and a net agricultural exporter.
However, tens of millions of villagers, particularly in the south, have not benefited from the green revolution and live in abject poverty.
Industry has benefited from a liberalization of controls.
Fish from the ocean are of growing economic importance to many of the bordering countries as a source of both food and exports.
Fishing fleets from the USSR, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan also exploit the Indian Ocean for mostly shrimp and tuna.
Large reserves of hydrocarbons are being tapped in the offshore areas of Saudi Arabia, Iran, India, and Western Australia.
An estimated 40% of the world's offshore oil production comes from the Indian Ocean.
Indonesia has extensive natural wealth but, with a large and rapidly increasing population, it remains a poor country.
GNP growth in 1985-89 averaged about 4%, somewhat short of the 5% rate needed to absorb the 2.3 million workers annually entering the labor force.
Agriculture, including forestry and fishing, is the most important sector, accounting for 21% of GDP and over 50% of the labor force.
The staple crop is rice.
Once the world's largest rice importer, Indonesia is now nearly self-sufficient. Plantation crops--rubber and palm oil--are being encouraged for both export and job generation.
The diverse natural resources include crude oil, natural gas, timber, metals, and coal.
War-related disruptions, massive corruption, mismanagement, demographic pressures, and ideological rigidities have kept economic growth at depressed levels.
Oil accounts for 90% of export revenues.
A combination of war damage and low oil prices brought a 2% drop in GNP in 1988.
GNP probably rose slightly in 1989, considerably short of the 3.4% population growth rate in 1989.
Heating oil and gasoline are rationed.
Agriculture has suffered from the war, land reform, and shortages of equipment and materials.
The five-year plan seeks to reinvigorate the economy by increasing the role of the private sector, boosting nonoil income, and securing foreign loans.
GLASPIE; Embassy in Masbah Quarter (opposite the Foreign Ministry Club), Baghdad (mailing address is P.
The economy is dominated by the oil sector, which provides about 95% of foreign exchange earnings.
Since the early 1980s financial problems, caused by war expenditures and damage to oil export facilities by Iran, have led the government to implement austerity measures and to reschedule foreign debt payments.
Oil exports have gradually increased with the construction of new pipelines.
Agricultural development remains hampered by labor shortages, salinization, and dislocations caused by previous land reform and collectivization programs.
The industrial sector, although accorded high priority by the government, is under financial constraints.
HILLERY (since 3 December 1976); Head of Government--Prime Minister Charles J.
MACKERNAN; Chancery at 2234 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 462-3939; there are Irish Consulates General in Boston, Chicago, New York, and San Francisco; US--Ambassador Richard A.
Agriculture, once the most important sector, is now dwarfed by industry, which accounts for 35% of GNP and about 80% of exports and employs 20% of the labor force.
The government has successfully reduced the rate of inflation from double-digit figures in the late 1970s to about 4% in 1989.
In 1987, after years of deficits, the balance of payments was brought into the black.
Unemployment, however, is a serious problem.
The Camp David Accords further specify that these negotiations will resolve the location of the respective boundaries.
Pending the completion of this process, it is US policy that the final status of the West Bank and Gaza Strip has yet to be determined (see West Bank and Gaza Strip entries).
It depends on imports for crude oil, food, grains, raw materials, and military equipment.
Despite limited natural resources, Israel has developed its agriculture and industry sectors on an intensive scale over the past 20 years.
Industry accounts for about 23% of the labor force, agriculture for 6%, and services for most of the balance.
Diamonds, high-technology machinery, and agricultural products (fruits and vegetables) are the biggest export earners.
In 1987 the economy showed a 5.2% growth in real GNP, the best gain in nearly a decade; in 1988-89 the gain was only 1% annually, largely because of the economic impact of the Palestinian uprising (intifadah).
The country is still divided into a developed industrial north, dominated by large private companies and state enterprises and an undeveloped agricultural south.
Services account for 58% of GDP, industry 37%, and agriculture 5%.
Most raw materials needed by industry and over 75% of energy requirements must be imported.
The economic recovery that began in mid-1983 has continued through 1989, with the economy growing at an annual average rate of 3%.
Consequently, the economy is highly sensitive to fluctuations in international prices for coffee and cocoa and to weather conditions.
Despite attempts by the government to diversify, the economy is still largely dependent on agriculture and related industries.
The agricultural sector accounts for over one-third of GDP and about 80% of export earnings and employs about 85% of the labor force.
Since 1986 an economic recovery has been under way.
In 1987 conditions began to improve for the bauxite and alumina industry because of increases in world metal prices.
The recovery has also been supported by growth in the manufacturing and tourism sectors.
In September 1988, Hurricane Gilbert inflicted severe damage on crops and the electric power system, a sharp but temporary setback to the economy.
Doi, chairman; Democratic Socialist Party (DSP), Keigo Ouchi, chairman; Japan Communist Party (JCP), K.
Government-industry cooperation, a strong work ethic, and a comparatively small defense allocation have helped Japan advance rapidly, notably in high-technology fields.
Industry, the most important sector of the economy, is heavily dependent on imported raw materials and fuels. Self-sufficent in rice, Japan must import 50% of its requirements for other grain and fodder crops.
Japan maintains one of the world's largest fishing fleets and accounts for nearly 15% of the total global catch.
Overall economic growth has been spectacular: a 10% average in the 1960s, a 5% average in the 1970s and 1980s.
In 1989 strong investment and consumption spending helped maintain growth at nearly 5%.
Potatoes, cauliflower, tomatoes, and especially flowers are important export crops, shipped mostly to the UK.
The Jersey breed of dairy cattle is known worldwide and represents an important export earner.
Milk products go to the UK and other EC countries.
In 1986 the finance sector overtook tourism as the main contributor to GDP, accounting for 40% of the island's output.
In recent years the government has encouraged light industry to locate in Jersey, with the result that an electronics industry has developed alongside the traditional manufacturing of knitwear.
HAMMAMI; Chancery at 3504 International Drive NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 966-2664; US--Ambassador Roscoe S.
SUDDARTH; Embassy on Jebel Amman, Amman (mailing address is P.
Recent years, however, have witnessed a sharp reduction in cash aid from Arab oil-producing countries and in worker remittances, with growth averaging 1-2%.
Imports--mainly oil, capital goods, consumer durables, and foodstuffs--have been outstripping exports by roughly $2 billion annually, the difference being made up by aid, remittances, and borrowing.
In 1989 the government pursued policies to encourage private investment, curb imports of luxury goods, promote exports, reduce the budget deficit, and, in general, reinvigorate economic growth.
Success will depend largely on exogenous forces, such as the absence of drought and a pickup in outside support.
In the meantime, GDP growth in the near term has kept slightly ahead of population--annually averaging 5.2% in the 1986-88 period.
Phosphate deposits were exhausted at the time of independence in 1979.
Copra and fish now represent the bulk of production and exports.
The economy has fluctuated widely in recent years.
Real GDP declined about 8% in 1987, as the fish catch fell sharply to only one-fourth the level of 1986 and copra production was hampered by repeated rains.
Output rebounded strongly in 1988, with real GDP growing by 17%.
The upturn in economic growth came from an increase in copra production and a good fish catch.
State control of economic affairs is unusually tight even for a Communist country because of the small size and homogeneity of the society and the strict one-man rule of Kim.
Economic growth during the period 1984-89 has averaged approximately 3%.
Abundant natural resources and hydropower form the basis of industrial development.
Output of the extractive industries includes coal, iron ore, magnesite, graphite, copper, zinc, lead, and precious metals.
Manufacturing emphasis is centered on heavy industry, with light industry lagging far behind.
GNP increased almost 13% in both 1986 and 1987 and 12% in 1988 before slowing to 6.5% in 1989.
Such a rapid rate of growth was achieved with an inflation rate of only 3% in the period 1986-87, rising to 7% in 1988 and 5% in 1989.
Unemployment is also low, and some labor bottlenecks have appeared in several processing industries.
Nathaniel HOWELL; Embassy at Bneid al-Gar (opposite the Hilton Hotel), Kuwait City (mailing address is P.
Of the countries in the Middle East, Kuwait has oil reserves second only to those of Saudi Arabia. Earnings from hydrocarbons generate over 90% of both export and government revenues and contribute about 40% to GDP.
Most of the nonoil sector is dependent upon oil-derived government revenues to provide infrastructure development and to promote limited industrial diversification.
The economy is heavily dependent upon foreign labor--Kuwaitis account for less than 20% of the labor force.
SALMON; Embassy at Rue Bartholonie, Vientiane (mailing address is B.
Subsistence agriculture is the main occupation, accounting for over 60% of GDP and providing about 85-90% of total employment.
The predominant crop is rice.
The cease-fire established in October 1976 between the domestic political groups generally held for about six years, despite occasional fighting.
Syrian troops constituted as the Arab Deterrent Force by the Arab League have remained in Lebanon.
In the wake of his death, Christian militiamen massacred hundreds of Palestinian refugees in two Beirut camps.
This prompted the return of the MNF to ease the security burden on Lebanon's weak Army and security forces.
In late March 1984 the last MNF units withdrew. Lebanese Parliamentarians met in Taif, Saudi Arabia in late 1989 and concluded a national reconciliation pact that codified a new power-sharing formula, specifiying a Christian president but giving Muslims more authority.
Rene Muawad was subsequently elected president on 4 November 1989, ending a 13-month period during which Lebanon had no president and rival Muslim and Christian governments.
Syria augmented its troop presence during the weeks following Muawad's assassination.
Troops are deployed in West Beirut and its southern suburbs, in Al Biqa, and in northern Lebanon.
MCCARTHY; Embassy at Avenue de Paris, Beirut (mailing address is P.
The ordinary Lebanese citizen struggles to keep afloat in an environment of physical danger, high unemployment, and growing shortages.
The central government's ability to collect taxes has suffered greatly from militia control and taxation of local areas.
As the civil strife persists, the US dollar has become more and more the medium of exchange.
Transportation, communications, and other parts of the infrastructure continue to deteriorate. Family remittances, foreign political money going to the factions, international emergency aid, and a small volume of manufactured exports help prop up the battered economy.
Gen. Justin Metsing LEKHANYA (since 24 January 1986) Political parties and leaders: Basotho National Party (BNP), position vacant; Basutoland Congress Party (BCP), Ntsu Mokhehle; Basotho Democratic Alliance (BDA), A.
Nqojane; National Independent Party (NIP), A.
Manyeli; Marematlou Freedom Party (MFP), S.
Mapheleba; United Democratic Party, C.
VAN TONDER; Chancery at 2511 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 797-5 534; US--Ambassador (vacant): Deputy Chief of Mission Howard F.
JETER; Embassy at address NA, Maseru (mailing address is P.
Its economy is based on agriculture, light manufacturing, and remittances from laborers employed in South Africa. Subsistence farming is the principal occupation for about 86% of the domestic labor force and accounts for about 20% of GDP.
Manufacturing depends largely on farm products to support the milling, canning, leather, and jute industries; other industries include textile, clothing, and light engineering.
Industry's share of total GDP rose from 6% in 1982 to 10.5% in 1987.
During the period 1985-87 real GDP growth averaged 2.9% per year, only slightly above the population growth rate.
WORDSWORTH-STEVENSON; Chancery at 5201 16th Street NW, Washington DC 20011; telephone (202) 723-0437 through 0440; there is a Liberian Consulate General in New York; US--Ambassador James K.
BISHOP; Embassy at 111 United Nations Drive, Monrovia (mailing address is P.
Richly endowed with water, mineral resources, forests, and a climate favorable to agriculture, Liberia is a producer and exporter of basic products.
Local manufacturing, mainly foreign owned, is small in scope.
Liberia imports primarily machinery and parts, transportation equipment, petroleum products, and foodstuffs.
Since 1980, however, the sharp drop in oil prices and resulting decline in export revenues has adversely affected economic development.
In 1986 per capita GNP was the highest in Africa at $5,410, but it had been $2,000 higher in 1982.
Severe cutbacks in imports over the past five years have led to shortages of basic goods and foodstuffs, although the reopening of the Libyan-Tunisian border in April 1988 and the Libyan-Egyptian border in December 1989 have somewhat eased shortages.
Austerity budgets and a lack of trained technicians have undermined the government's ability to implement a number of planned infrastructure development projects.
The nonoil industrial and construction sectors, which account for about 15% of GNP, have expanded from processing mostly agricultural products to include petrochemicals, iron, steel, and aluminum.
Although agriculture accounts for less than 5% of GNP, it employs 20% of the labor force.
Industry accounts for 54% of total employment, the service sector 42% (mostly based on tourism), and agriculture and forestry 4%.
The sale of postage stamps to collectors is estimated at $10 million annually and accounts for 10% of revenues.
Low business taxes (the maximum tax rate is 20%) and easy incorporation rules have induced about 25,000 holding or so-called letter box companies to establish nominal offices in Liechtenstein.
Such companies, incorporated solely for tax purposes, provide an additional 30% of state revenues.
Agriculture is based on small but highly productive family-owned farms.
The industrial sector, until recently dominated by steel, has become increasingly more diversified, particularly toward high-technology firms.
During the past decade growth in the financial sector has more than compensated for the decline in steel.
Services, especially banking, account for a growing proportion of the economy.
Efforts to diversify have spawned other small industries--toys, artificial flowers, and electronics. The tourist sector has accounted for roughly 25% of GDP, and the clothing industry has provided about two-thirds of export earnings.
Macau depends on China for most of its food, fresh water, and energy imports.
WALKER; Embassy at 14 and 16 Rue Rainitovo, Antsahavola, Antananarivo (mailing address is B.
Industrial development has been hampered by government policies that have restricted imports of equipment and spare parts and put strict controls on foreign-owned enterprises.
MBAYA; Chancery at 2408 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 797-1007; US--Ambassador George A.
TRAIL, III; Embassy in new capital city development area, address NA (mailing address is P.
The economy is predominately agricultural and operates under a relatively free enterprise environment, with about 90% of the population living in rural areas. Agriculture accounts for 40% of GDP and 90% of export revenues.
After two years of weak performance, economic growth improved significantly in 1988 as a result of good weather and a broadly based economic adjustment effort by the government.
TALALLA; Chancery at 2401 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 328-2700; there are Malaysian Consulates General in Los Angeles and New York; US--Ambassador Paul M.
CLEVELAND; Embassy at 376 Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 Kuala Lumpur (mailing address is P.
Real output grew by 8.7% in 1988 and about 7.7% in 1989, helped by vigorous growth in manufacturing output and further increases in foreign direct investment, particularly from Japanese and Taiwanese firms facing higher costs at home.
Malaysia has become the world's third-largest producer of semiconductor devices (after the US and Japan) and the world's largest exporter of semiconductor devices.
Inflation remained low as unemployment stood at about 8% of the labor force and as the government followed prudent fiscal/monetary policies.
The country is not self-sufficient in food, and a majority of the rural population subsists at the poverty level.
Fishing is the largest industry, employing 80% of the work force and accounting for over 60% of exports; it is also an important source of government revenue.
During the 1980s tourism has become one of the most important and highest growth sectors of the economy.
In 1988 industry accounted for about 14% of GDP.
PRINGLE; Embassy at Rue Testard and Rue Mohamed V., Bamako (mailing address is B.
Economic activity is largely confined to the riverine area irrigated by the Niger.
About 10% of the population lives as nomads and some 80% of the labor force is engaged in agriculture and fishing.
STELLINI; Chancery at 2017 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 462-3611 or 3612; there is a Maltese Consulate General in New York; US--Ambassador Sally J.
NOVETZKE; Embassy at 2nd Floor, Development House, St. Anne Street, Floriana, Valletta (mailing address is P.
Malta produces only about 20% of its food needs, has limited freshwater supplies, and has no domestic energy sources.
Consequently, the economy is highly dependent on foreign trade and services.
Manufacturing and tourism are the largest contributors to the economy.
Manufacturing accounts for about 30% of GDP, with the textile and clothing industry a major contributor.
Gen. Laurence NEW (since 1985); Head of Government--President of the Legislative Council J.
The government's policy of offering incentives to high-technology companies and financial institutions to locate on the island has paid off in expanding employment opportunities in high-income industries.
As a result, agriculture and fishing, once the mainstays of the economy, have declined in their shares of GNP.
Banking now contributes over 20% to GNP and manufacturing about 15%.
KENDALL; Representative Office at Suite 1004, 1901 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington DC 20006; telephone (202) 223-4952; US--Representative Samuel B.
THOMSEN; US Office at NA address (mailing address is P.
A few cattle ranches supply the domestic meat market.
Small-scale industry is limited to handicrafts, fish processing, and copra.
The tourist industry is the primary source of foreign exchange and employs about 10% of the labor force.
The islands have few natural resources, and imports far exceed exports.
561, Fort-de-France); telephone [596] 63-13-03 Flag: the flag of France is used - Economy Overview: The economy is based on sugarcane, bananas, tourism, and light industry.
Agriculture accounts for about 7% of GDP and the small industrial sector for 10%.
Sugar production has declined, with most of the sugarcane now used for the production of rum.
Banana exports are increasing, however, going mostly to France.
The bulk of meat, vegetable, and grain requirements must be imported, contributing to a chronic trade deficit that requires large annual transfers of aid from France.
Tourism has become more important than agricultural exports as a source of foreign exchange.
The majority of the work force is employed in the service sector and in administration.
In 1984 the annual per capita income was relatively high at $3,650.
TWADDELL; Embassy at address NA, Nouakchott (mailing address is B.
The decline in world demand for this ore, however, has led to cutbacks in production in recent years.
The nation's coastal waters are among the richest fishing areas in the world, but overexploitation by foreigners threatens this key source of revenue.
Jugnauth, and the Mauritian Labor Party (MLP), S.
Boolell; the main opposition union consists of the Mauritian Militant Movement (MMM), Prem Nababsing; Socialist Workers Front, Sylvio Michel; Democratic Labor Movement, Anil Baichoo; Mauritian Social Democratic Party (PMSD), G.
Despite significant expansion in other sectors over the past decade, sugarcane remains dominant and is grown on about 90% of the cultivated land area, accounting for 40% of export earnings.
The government's development strategy is centered on industrialization (with a view to exports), agricultural diversification, and tourism.
Mayotte is not self-sufficient and must import a large portion of its food requirements, mainly from France.
NEGROPONTE, Jr.; Embassy at Paseo de la Reforma 305, Mexico 5, D.F. (mailing address is P.
In the 1980s Mexico experienced severe economic difficulties: the nation accumulated large external debts as world petroleum prices fell; rapid population growth outstripped the domestic food supply; and inflation, unemployment, and pressures to emigrate became more acute.
Growth in national output dropped from 8% in 1980 to 1.1% in 1988 and 2.5% in 1989.
The US is Mexico's major trading partner, accounting for two-thirds of its exports and imports.
After petroleum, border assembly plants and tourism are the largest earners of foreign exchange.
HAGLELGAM (since 11 May 1987); Vice President Hiroshi H.
ISMAEL (since 11 May 1987) Political parties and leaders: no formal parties Suffrage: universal at age 18 Elections: President--last held 11 May 1987 (next to be held May 1991); results--John R.
Haglelgam was elected; House of Representatives--last held on NA (next to be held NA); results--percent of vote NA; seats--(NA total) Communists: none Member of: SPF, ESCAP (associate) Diplomatic representation: Deputy Representative Jesse B.
MAREHALAN; Representative Office at 706 G Street SE, Washington DC 20003; telephone (202) 544-2640; US--Representative Michael G.
WYGANT; US Office at address NA, Kolonia (mailing address is P.
Economic activity consists primarily of subsistence farming and fishing.
The islands have few mineral deposits worth exploiting, except for high-grade phosphate.
Monaco, situated on the French Mediterranean coast, is a popular resort, attracting tourists to its casino and pleasant climate.
About 50% of Monaco's annual revenue comes from value-added taxes on hotels, banks, and the industrial sector; about 25% of revenue comes from tourism.
In recent years extensive mineral resources have been developed with Soviet support.
TURNER (since 1987); Head of Government--Chief Minister John A.
Tourism is the most important sector and accounted for 20% of GDP in 1986.
Agriculture accounted for about 4% of GDP and industry 9%.
The economy is heavily dependent on imports, making it vulnerable to fluctuations in world prices.
WELLS; Embassy at 3rd Floor, 35 Rua Da Mesquita, Maputo (mailing address is P.
A sharp increase in foreign aid, attracted by an economic reform policy, has resulted in successive years of economic growth since 1985.
Agricultural output, nevertheless, is only at about 75% of its 1981 level, and grain has to be imported.
Industry operates at only 20-40% of capacity.
Mining accounts for almost 35% of GDP, agriculture and fisheries 10-15%, and manufacturing about 5%. Namibia is the fourth-largest exporter of nonfuel minerals in Africa and the world's fifth-largest producer of uranium.
Alluvial diamond deposits are among the richest in the world, making Namibia a primary source for gem-quality diamonds.
Phosphates have given Nauruans one of the highest per capita incomes in the Third World--$10,000 annually.
Few other resources exist so most necessities must be imported, including fresh water from Australia.
The rehabilitation of mined land and the replacement of income from phosphates constitute serious long-term problems.
Real growth averaged 4% in the 1980s until FY89, when it plunged to 1.5% because of the ongoing trade/transit dispute with India.
Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, providing a livelihood for over 90% of the population and accounting for 60% of GDP and about 75% of exports.
Industrial activity is limited, and what there is involves the processing of agricultural produce (jute, sugarcane, tobacco, and grain). Apart from agricultural land and forests, the only other exploitable natural resources are mica, hydropower, and tourism.
Despite considerable investment in the agricultural sector, production in the 1980s has not kept pace with the population growth of 2.7%, which has led to a reduction in exportable surpluses and balance-of-payments difficulties.
FEIN; Chancery at 4200 Linnean Avenue NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 244-5300; there are Dutch Consulates General in Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, and San Francisco; US--Ambassador C.
The government makes its presence felt, however, through many regulations, permit requirements, and welfare programs affecting most aspects of economic activity.
The trade and financial services sector contributes over 50% of GDP.
Industrial activity, including construction, provides about 25% of GDP, and is led by the food-processing, oil-refining, and metal-working industries.
The highly mechanized agricultural sector employs only 6% of the labor force, but provides large surpluses for export and the domestic food-processing industry.
WILKINSON; Consulate General at St. Anna Boulevard 19, Willemstad, Curacao (mailing address P.
The islands enjoy a comparatively high per capita income and a well-developed infrastructure compared with other countries in the region.
Unlike many Latin American countries, the Netherlands Antilles has avoided large international debt.
Almost all consumer and capital goods are imported, with the US being the major supplier.
The government has hoped that dynamic growth would boost real incomes, reduce inflationary pressures, and permit the expansion of welfare benefits.
The results have been mixed: inflation is down from double-digit levels but growth has been sluggish and unemployment, always a highly sensitive issue, has been at a record high 7.4%.
Over 50% of the agricultural and industrial firms are state owned.
Sandinista economic policies and the war have produced a severe economic crisis.
The foundation of the economy continues to be the export of agricultural commodities, largely coffee and cotton.
Farm production fell by roughly 7% in 1989, the fifth successive year of decline.
CUNDIFF; Embassy at Avenue des Ambassadeurs, Niamey (mailing address is B.
France is a major customer, while FRG, Japan, and Spain also make regular purchases.
Agricultural production was up only 4% following a 10% decline in 1988, and manufacturing remained below the 1985 level with only a 6% increase.
Industry consists primarily of small factories to process passion fruit, lime oil, honey, and coconut cream.
The number of visitors has increased steadily over the years and reached almost 30,000 in 1986.
Tagpochu on Saipan) Natural resources: arable land, fish Land use: 1% arable land; NA% permanent crops; 19% meadows and pastures; NA% forest and woodland; NA% other Environment: Mt.
TENORIO (since 1978); Lieutenant Governor Pedro A.
TENORIO (since NA) Political parties and leaders: Democratic Party, Antonio S.
Guerrero; Republican Party, Alonso Igisomar Suffrage: universal at age 18; indigenous inhabitants are US citizens but do not vote in US presidential elections Elections: Governor--last held on NA (next to be held NA); results--Pedro P.
An agreement for the years 1986 to 1992 entitles the islands to $228 million for capital development, government operations, and special programs.
Another major source of income is the tourist industry, which employs about 10% of the work force.
The agricultural sector is made up of cattle ranches and small farms producing coconuts, breadfruit, tomatoes, and melons.
SYSE (since 16 October 1989) Political parties and leaders: Labor, Gro Harlem Brundtland; Conservative, Jan P.
Jakobsen; Christian People's, Kjell Magne Bondevik; Socialist Left, Eric Solheim; Norwegian Communist, Hans I.
Since 1975 exploitation of large crude oil and natural gas reserves has helped achieve an average annual growth of roughly 4%, the third-highest among OECD countries.
Growth slackened in 1987-88 because of the sharp drop in world oil prices and a slowdown in consumer spending, but picked up again in 1989.
Petroleum accounts for nearly all export earnings, about 70% of government revenues, and more than 50% of GDP.
Oman has proved oil reserves of 4 billion barrels, equivalent to about 20 years' supply at the current rate of extraction.
PRUETT; US Liaison Office at Top Side, Neeriyas, Koror (mailing address: P.
Box 6028, Koror, Republic of Palau 96940); telephone 160-680-920 or 990 Flag: light blue with a large yellow disk (representing the moon) shifted slightly to the hoist side - Economy Overview: The economy consists primarily of subsistence agriculture and fishing.
Tourism provides some foreign exchange, although the remote location of Palau and a shortage of suitable facilities has hindered development.
In 1985 over half (54%) of the world's total fish catch came from the Pacific Ocean, which is the only ocean where the fish catch has increased every year since 1978.
Exploitation of offshore oil and gas reserves is playing an ever increasing role in the energy supplies of Australia, New Zealand, China, US, and Peru.
OAKLEY; Embassy at Diplomatic Enclave, Ramna 5, Islamabad (mailing address is P.
In addition, the economy must support a large military establishment and provide for the needs of 4 million Afghan refugees.
A real economic growth rate averaging 5-6% in recent years has enabled the country to cope with these problems.
Almost all agriculture and small-scale industry is in private hands, and the government seeks to privatize a portion of the large-scale industrial enterprises now publicly owned.
In December 1988, Pakistan signed a three-year economic reform agreement with the IMF, which provides for a reduction in the government deficit and a liberalization of trade in return for further IMF financial support.
The so-called Islamization of the economy has affected mainly the financial sector; for example, a prohibition on certain types of interest payments.
Political instability, lack of credit, and the erosion of business confidence prompted declines of 20-70% in the financial, agricultural, commercial, manufacturing, and construction sectors between 1987 and 1989.
Transits through the Panama Canal were off slightly, as were toll revenues.
Unemployment remained about 23% during 1989.
Imports of foodstuffs and crude oil increased during 1989, but capital goods imports continued their slide.
Agriculture provides a subsistence livelihood for more than half of the population.
Mining of numerous deposits, including copper and gold, accounts for about 60% of export earnings.
TOWELL; Embassy at 1776 Avenida Mariscal Lopez, Asuncion (mailing address is C.
Agriculture, including forestry, accounts for about 25% of GNP, employs about 45% of the labor force, and provides the bulk of exports.
Paraguay has no known significant mineral or petroleum resources, but does have a large hydropower potential.
Since 1981 economic performance has declined compared with the boom period of 1976-81, when real GDP grew at an average annual rate of nearly 11%.
During 1982-86 real GDP fell three out of five years, inflation jumped to an annual rate of 32%, and foreign debt rose.
The recovery continued through 1988, with a bumper soybean crop and record cotton production.
Deficit spending is at the root of domestic economic problems, but poor relations with international lenders--the result of curtailing debt payments since 1985--are preventing an inflow of funds to generate a recovery.
Reduced standards of living have increased labor tensions, and strikes, particularly in the key mining sector, have cut production and exports.
Foreign exchange shortages have forced reductions in vital consumer imports such as food and industrial inputs.
AQUINO (since 25 February 1986); Vice President Salvador H.
The agricultural sector, together with forestry and fishing, plays an important role in the economy, employing about 50% of the work force and providing almost 30% of GDP.
The Philippines is the world's largest exporter of coconuts and coconut products. Manufacturing contributed about 25% of GDP.
About 75% of agricultural production had come from the private sector and the rest from state farms.
The economy has presented a picture of moderate but slowing growth against a background of underlying weaknesses in technology and worker motivation.
GNP increased between 3% and 6% annually during the period 1983-1986, but grew only 2.5% and 2.1% in 1987 and 1988, respectively.
Output dropped by 1.5% in 1989.
The inflation rate, after falling sharply from the 1982 peak of 100% to 22% in 1986, rose to a galloping rate of 640% in 1989.
Shortages of consumer goods and some food items worsened in 1988-89.
Agricultural products and coal have remained the biggest hard currency earners, but manufactures are increasing in importance.
Poland, with its hard currency debt of approximately $40 billion, is severely limited in its ability to import much-needed hard currency goods.
The sweeping political changes of 1989 disrupted normal economic channels and exacerbated shortages.
In January 1990, the new Solidarity-led government adopted a cold turkey program for transforming Poland to a market economy.
The government moved to eliminate subsidies, end artificially low prices, make the zloty convertible, and, in general, halt the hyperinflation.
The economy grew by 4.7% in 1987, 4.1% in 1988, and 3.5% in 1989, largely because of strong domestic consumption and investment spending.
Unemployment has declined for the third consecutive year, but inflation continues to be about three times the European Community average.
Industry has surpassed agriculture as the primary sector of economic activity and income.
Encouraged by duty-free access to the US and by tax incentives, US firms have invested heavily in Puerto Rico since the 1970s.
Important new industries include pharmaceuticals, electronics, textiles, petrochemicals, and processed foods.
Sugar production has lost out to dairy production and other livestock products as the main source of income in the agricultural sector.
HAMBLEY; Embassy at Fariq Bin Omran (opposite the television station), Doha (mailing address is P.
Proved oil reserves of 3.3 billion barrels should ensure continued output at current levels for about 25 years.
The government is pushing the development of a tourist industry to relieve a high unemployment rate that was over 30% in 1986.
In recent years the agricultural sector has had to contend with drought, mismanagement, and shortages of inputs. Favorable weather in 1989 helped produce a good harvest, although far below government claims.
The new government is slowly loosening the tight central controls of Ceausescu's command economy.
It has instituted moderate land reforms, with close to one-third of cropland now in private hands, and it has allowed changes in prices for private agricultural output.
Also, the new regime is permitting the establishment of private enterprises of 20 or fewer employees in services, handicrafts, and small-scale industry.
Furthermore, the government has halted the old policy of diverting food from domestic consumption to hard currency export markets.
Gen. Juvenal HABYARIMANA (since 5 July 1973) Political parties and leaders: only party--National Revolutionary Movement for Development (MRND), Maj.
Gen. Juvenal Habyarimana (officially a development movement, not a party) Suffrage: universal adult, exact age NA Elections: President--last held 19 December 1988 (next to be held December 1993); results--President Maj.
SPEARMAN, Sr.; Embassy at Boulevard de la Revolution, Kigali (mailing address is B.
The amount of fertile land is limited, however, and deforestation and soil erosion have created problems.
The industrial sector in Rwanda is small, contributing less than 20% to GDP. Manufacturing focuses mainly on the processing of agricultural products. The Rwandan economy remains dependent on coffee exports and foreign aid, with no relief in sight.
STIMSON (since 1987) Political parties and leaders: St. Helena Labor Party, G.
The local population earns some income from fishing, the rearing of livestock, and sales of handicrafts.
There is also an expanding industrial base supported by foreign investment in manufacturing and other activities, such as in data processing.
The economy, however, remains vulnerable because the important agricultural sector is dominated by banana production.
The economy has been declining, however, because the number of ships stopping at St. Pierre has steadily dropped over the years.
In March 1989, an agreement between France and Canada set fish quotas for St. Pierre's trawlers fishing in Canadian and Canadian-claimed waters for three years.
The agreement settles a longstanding dispute that had virtually brought fish exports to a halt.
The islands are heavily subsidized by France.
The services sector is next in importance, based mostly on a growing tourist industry.
More than 2 million tourists visit each year, contributing about 60% to GDP.
The sale of postage stamps to foreign collectors is another important income producer.
The manufacturing sector employs nearly 40% of the labor force and agriculture less than 4%.
Since then, however, cocoa production has gradually deteriorated because of drought and mismanagement, so that by 1987 output had fallen to less than 50% of its former levels.
As a result, a shortage of cocoa for export has created a serious balance-of-payments problem.
Production of less important crops, such as coffee, copra, and palm kernels, has also declined.
The value of imports generally exceeds that of exports by a ratio of 4 to 1.
The emphasis on cocoa production at the expense of other food crops has meant that Sao Tome has to import 90% of food needs.
It also has to import all fuels and most manufactured goods.
Over the years, Sao Tome has been unable to service its external debt, which amounts to roughly 80% of export earnings.
Considerable potential exists for development of a tourist industry, and the government has taken steps to expand facilities in recent years.
FREEMAN; Embassy at Collector Road M, Diplomatic Quarter, Riyadh (mailing address is P.
The petroleum sector accounts for about 85% of budget revenues, 80% of GDP, and almost all export earnings.
Saudi Arabia has the largest reserves of petroleum in the world, is the largest exporter of petroleum, and plays a leading role in OPEC.
Oil wealth has provided a per capita GDP that is comparable to most industrialized countries.
MOOSE; Embassy on Avenue Jean XXIII at the corner of Avenue Kleber, Dakar (mailing address is B.
About 40% of the total cultivated land is used to grow peanuts, an important export crop.
The principal economic resource is fishing, which brought in about $200 million or about 25% of total foreign exchange earnings in 1987.
Mining is dominated by the extraction of phosphate, but production has faltered because of reduced worldwide demand for fertilizers in recent years.
In recent years the government has encouraged foreign investment in order to upgrade hotels and other services.
Manufacturing accounts for less than 10% of GDP, consisting mainly of the processing of raw materials and of light manufacturing for the domestic market.
Diamond mining provides an important source of hard currency.
During the 1970s and early 1980s, the economy expanded rapidly, achieving an average annual growth rate of 9%.
Per capita GDP is among the highest in Asia.
In 1985 the economy registered its first drop in 20 years and achieved less than a 2% increase in 1986.
The service sector contributes about 25% to GDP.
Most manufactured goods and petroleum products must be imported.
The islands are rich in undeveloped mineral resources such as lead, zinc, nickel, and gold.
Gen. Mohamed SIAD Barre (since 21 October 1969); Head of Government--Prime Minister Lt. Gen. Mohamed Ali SAMANTAR (since 1 February 1987) Political parties and leaders: only party--Somali Revolutionary Socialist Party (SRSP), Maj.
Frank CRIGLER; Embassy at Corso Primo Luglio, Mogadishu (mailing address is P.
In 1988 per capita GDP was $210.
Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy, with the livestock sector accounting for about 40% of GDP and about 65% of export earnings.
Nomads and seminomads who are dependent upon livestock for their livelihoods make up about 50% of the population.
Crop production generates only 10% of GDP and employs about 20% of the work force.
The main export crop is bananas; sugar, sorghum, and corn are grown for the domestic market.
The small industrial sector is based on the processing of agricultural products and accounts for less than 10% of GDP.
DE KLERK (since 13 September 1989) Political parties and leaders: white political parties and leaders--National Party (NP), Frederik W. de Klerk (majority party); Conservative Party (CP), Dr. Andries P.
KOORNHOF; Chancery at 3051 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 232-4400; there are South African Consulates General in Beverly Hills (California), Chicago, Houston, and New York; US--Ambassador William L.
In contrast, most of the remaining population suffers from the poverty patterns of the Third World, including unemployment, lack of job skills, and barriers to movement into higher-paying fields.
Inputs and outputs thus do not move smoothly into the most productive employments, and the effectiveness of the market is further lowered by international constraints on dealings with South Africa.
There is a potential source of income from harvesting fin fish and krill.
The initial reforms featured greater authority for enterprise managers over prices, wages, product mix, investment, sources of supply, and customers.
In October 1989, a top economic adviser, Leonid Abalkin presented an ambitious but reasonable timetable for the conversion to a partially privatized market system in the 1990s.
In still another policy twist, the leadership in early 1990 was considering a marked speedup in the marketization process.
Because the economy is caught in between two systems, there was in 1989 an even greater mismatch between what was produced and what would serve the best interests of enterprises and households.
With increases in real GNP of 5.5% in 1987 and about 5% in 1988 and 1989, Spain has been the fastest growing member of the EC.
Increased investment--both domestic and foreign--has been the most important factor pushing the economic expansion.
Silva; Communist Party/Beijing (CP/B), N.
Susanta De ALWIS; Chancery at 2148 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 483-4025 through 4028; there is a Sri Lankan Consulate in New York; US--Ambassador Marion V.
CREEKMORE; Embassy at 210 Galle Road, Colombo 3 (mailing address is P.
The plantation crops of tea, rubber, and coconuts provide about 50% of export earnings and almost 20% of budgetary revenues.
Gen. Umar Hasan Ahmad al-BASHIR (since 30 June 1989); Deputy Chairman of the Command Council and Deputy Prime Minister Brig.
The economy is dominated by governmental entities that account for more than 70% of new investment.
The private sector's main areas of activity are agriculture and trading, with most private industrial investment predating 1980.
The economy's base is agriculture, which employs 80% of the work force. Industry mainly processes agricultural items.
A high foreign debt and arrearages of about $13 billion continue to cause difficulties.
The economy has been in trouble since the Dutch ended development aid in 1982.
A drop in world bauxite prices that started in the late 1970s and continued until late 1986, was followed by the outbreak of a guerrilla insurgency in the interior.
The guerrillas targeted the economic infrastructure, crippling the important bauxite sector and shutting down other export industries.
These problems have created both high inflation and high unemployment.
By treaty (9 February 1920), the nationals of the treaty powers have equal rights to exploit mineral deposits, subject to Norwegian regulation.
Although US, UK, Dutch, and Swedish coal companies have mined in the past, the only companies still mining are Norwegian and Soviet.
Each company mines about half a million tons of coal annually.
The settlements on Svalbard are essentially company towns.
The Norwegian state-owned coal company employs nearly 60% of the Norwegian population on the island, runs many of the local services, and provides most of the local infrastructure.
It has essentially full employment, a modern distribution system, excellent internal and external communications, and a skilled and intelligent labor force.
Timber, hydropower, and iron ore constitute the resource base of an economy that is heavily oriented toward foreign trade.
Privately owned firms account for about 90% of industrial output, of which the engineering sector accounts for 50% of output and exports.
Per capita output, general living standards, education and science, health care, and diet are unsurpassed in Europe.
Inflation remains low because of sound government policy and harmonious labor-management relations.
Unemployment is negligible, a marked contrast to the larger economies of Western Europe.
This economic stability helps promote the important banking and tourist sectors.
DJEREJIAN; Embassy at Abu Rumaneh, Al Mansur Street No.2, Damascus (mailing address is P.
Economic difficulties are attributable, in part, to severe drought in several recent years, costly but unsuccessful attempts to match Israel's military strength, a falloff in Arab aid, and insufficient foreign exchange earnings to buy needed inputs for industry and agriculture.
Socialist policy, embodied in a thicket of bureaucratic regulations, in many instances has driven away or pushed underground the mercantile and entrepreneurial spirit for which Syrian businessmen have long been famous.
Two bright spots: a sizable number of villagers have benefited from land redistribution, electrification, and other rural development programs; and a recent find of light crude oil has enabled Syria to cut back its substantial imports of light crude.
The economy is heavily dependent on agriculture, which accounts for about 40% of GDP, provides 85% of exports, and employs 90% of the work force.
Industry accounts for about 10% of GDP and is mainly limited to processing agricultural products and light consumer goods.
The economic recovery program announced in mid-1986 has generated notable increases in agricultural production and financial support for the program by bilateral donors.
Real output again rose about 11%.
The increasingly sophisticated manufacturing sector benefited from export-oriented investment, and agriculture grew by 4.0% because of improved weather.
The trade deficit of $5.2 billion was more than offset by earnings from tourism ($3.9 billion), remittances, and net capital inflows.
The government has followed a fairly sound fiscal and monetary policy, aided by increased tax receipts from the fast-moving economy.
TAYLOR, Jr.; Embassy at Rue Pelletier Caventou and Rue Vauban, Lome (mailing address is B.
The economy is heavily dependent on subsistence agriculture, which accounts for about 35% of GDP and provides employment for 80% of the labor force.
Primary agricultural exports are cocoa, coffee, and cotton, which together account for about 30% of total export earnings.
Togo is self-sufficient in basic foodstuffs when harvests are normal.
The people must rely on aid from New Zealand to maintain public services, annual aid being substantially greater than GDP. The principal sources of revenue come from sales of copra, postage stamps, souvenir coins, and handicrafts.
Coconuts, bananas, and vanilla beans are the main crops and make up two-thirds of exports.
The country must import a high proportion of its food, mainly from New Zealand. The manufacturing sector accounts for only 10% of GDP.
GARGANO; Embassy at 15 Queen's Park West, Port-of-Spain (mailing address is P.
Box 752, Port-of-Spain); telephone [809] 622-6372 or 6376, 6176 Flag: red with a white-edged black diagonal band from the upper hoist side - Economy Overview: Trinidad and Tobago's petroleum-based economy has been in decline since 1982.
During the first half of the 1980s, the petroleum sector accounted for nearly 80% of export earnings, 40% of government revenues, and almost 25% of GDP.
In recent years, however, the economy has suffered because of the sharp fall in the price of oil.
The government, in response to the revenue loss, pursued a series of austerity measures that pushed the unemployment rate to 22% in 1988.
Agriculture employs only about 11% of the labor force and produces less than 3% of GDP.
Since this sector is small, it has been unable to absorb the large numbers of the unemployed.
Two successive drought-induced crop failures have strained the government's budget and increased unemployment.
The current account fell from a $23 million surplus in 1988 to a $390 million deficit in 1989.
Despite its foreign payments problems, Tunis appears committed to its IMF-supported structural adjustment program.
Nonetheless, the government may have to slow its implementation to head off labor unrest.
The increasing foreign debt--$7.6 billion at yearend 1989--is also a key problem.
The economy has grown steadily since the early 1980s, with real growth in per capita GDP increasing more than 6% annually.
Agriculture remains the most important economic sector, employing about 60% of the labor force, accounting for almost 20% of GDP, and contributing about 25% to exports.
Impressive growth in recent years has not solved all of the economic problems facing Turkey.
Inflation and interest rates remain high, and a large budget deficit will continue to provide difficulties for a country undergoing a substantial transformation from a centrally controlled to a free market economy.
The government has launched a multimillion-dollar development program in the southeastern region, which includes the building of a dozen dams on the Tigris and Euphrates rivers to generate electric power and irrigate large tracts of farmland.
BRADLEY (since 1987); Head of Government--Chief Minister Oswald O.
The country has a small economy, no known mineral resources, and few exports.
Subsistence farming and fishing are the primary economic activities.
The islands are too small and too remote for development of a tourist industry.
Government revenues largely come from the sale of stamps and coins and worker remittances.
BURROUGHS, Jr.; Embassy at British High Commission Building, Obote Avenue, Kampala (mailing address is P.
Coffee is the major export crop and accounted for 97% of export revenues in 1988.
Since 1986 the government has acted to rehabilitate and stabilize the economy by undertaking currency reform, raising producer prices on export crops, increasing petroleum prices, and improving civil service wages.
WALKER, Jr.; Embassy at Al-Sudan Street, Abu Dhabi (mailing address is P.
This wealth is based on oil and gas, and the fortunes of the economy fluctuate with the prices of those commodities.
Since 1973, when petroleum prices shot up, the UAE has undergone a profound transformation from an impoverished region of small desert principalities to a modern state with a high standard of living.
The economy is essentially capitalistic with a generous admixture of social welfare programs and government ownership.
Industry is a mixture of public and private enterprises, employing about 24% of the work force and generating 22% of GDP.
The UK is an energy-rich nation with large coal, natural gas, and oil reserves; primary energy production accounts for 12% of GDP, one of the highest shares of any industrial nation.
Following the recession of 1979-81, the economy has enjoyed the longest period of continuous economic growth it has had during the last 30 years.
During the period 1982-89 real GDP grew by about 25%, while the inflation rate of 14% was nearly halved.
Between 1986 and 1989 unemployment fell from 11% to about 6%.
Since 18 July 1947, the US has administered the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, but recently entered into a new political relationship with three of the four political units.
The Northern Mariana Islands is a Commonwealth associated with the US (effective 3 November 1986).
In 1989 the economy entered its eighth successive year of growth, the longest in peacetime history.
The expansion has featured continued moderation in wage and consumer price increases, an unemployment rate of 5.2%, (the lowest in 10 years), and an inflation rate of 4.8%.
In 1986 real GDP grew by 6.6% and in 1987 by 4.9%.
The recovery was led by growth in the agriculture and fishing sectors, agriculture alone contributing 20% to GDP, employing about 11% of the labor force, and generating a large proportion of export earnings.
Raising livestock, particularly cattle and sheep, is the major agricultural activity.
In 1988, despite healthy exports and an improved current account, domestic growth slowed because of government concentration on the external sector, adverse weather conditions, and prolonged strikes.
Fishing and tourism are the other mainstays of the economy.
Mineral deposits are negligible; the country has no known petroleum deposits.
A small light-industry sector caters to the local market.
President Perez introduced an economic readjustment program when he assumed office in February 1989.
Rice is the staple crop; substantial amounts of maize, sorghum, cassava, and sweet potatoes are also grown.
The government permits sale of surplus grain on the open market.
Most of the mineral resources are located in the north, including coal, which is an important export item.
Following the end of the war in 1975, heavy handed government measures undermined efforts at an efficient merger of the agricultural resources of the south and the industrial resources of the north.
The economy remains heavily dependent on foreign aid and has received assistance from Communist countries, Sweden, and UN agencies.
Inflation, although down from recent triple-digit levels, is still a major weakness, and per capita output is among the world's lowest.
The manufacturing sector consists of textile, electronics, pharmaceutical, and watch assembly plants. The agricultural sector is small with most food imported.
International business and financial services are a small but growing component of the economy.
The Territory has to import food, fuel, and construction materials, and is dependent on budgetary support from France to meet recurring expenses.
In the view of the US, the term West Bank describes all of the area west of the Jordan River under Jordanian administration before the 1967 Arab-Israeli war.
However, with respect to negotiations envisaged in the framework agreement, it is US policy that a distinction must be made between Jerusalem and the rest of the West Bank because of the city's special status and circumstances.
Industries using advanced technology or requiring sizable financial resources have been discouraged by a lack of financial resources and Israeli policy.
Capital investment has largely gone into residential housing, not into productive assets that could compete with Israeli industry.
A major share of GNP is derived from remittances of workers employed in Israel and neighboring Gulf states.
Fishing and phosphate mining are the principal industries and sources of income.
Most of the food for the urban population must be imported.
The bulk of export earnings comes from the sale of coconut oil and copra.
The economy depends on emigrant remittances and foreign aid to support a level of imports about five times export earnings.
The technologically advanced areas--North America, Japan, and Western Europe--together account for 65% of the gross world product (GWP) of $20.3 trillion; these developed areas grew in the aggregate at 3.5%.
DUNBAR; Embassy at address NA, Sanaa (mailing address is P.
Large trade deficits are made up for by remittances from Yemenis working abroad and foreign aid.
Once self-sufficient in food production, the YAR is now a major importer. Land once used for export crops--cotton, fruit, and vegetables--has been turned over to growing qat, a mildly narcotic shrub chewed by Yemenis that has no significant export market.
A shortage of natural resources, a widely dispersed population, and an arid climate make economic development difficult.
The economy has grown at an average annual rate of only 2-3% since the mid-1970s.
The economy is organized along socialist lines, dominated by the public sector.
A prominent feature of the reforms was the establishment of workers' self-management councils in all large plants, which were to select managers, stimulate production, and divide the proceeds.
The general result of these reforms has been rampant wage-price inflation, substantial rundown of capital plant, consumer shortages, and a still larger income gap between the poorer southern regions and the relatively affluent northern provinces of Hrvatska and Slovenija.
In 1988-89 the beleaguered central government has been reforming the reforms, trying to create an open market economy with still considerable state ownership of major industrial plants.
These reforms have been moving forward with the advice and support of the International Monetary Fund through a series of tough negotiations.
Self-management supposedly is to be replaced by the discipline of the market and by fiscal austerity, ultimately leading to a stable dinar.
However, strikes in major plants, hyperinflation, and interregional political jousting have held back progress.
Agriculture, a key sector of the economy, employs 75% of the population but generates under 30% of GDP.
The main impetus for economic development has been the extractive industries.
Mining and mineral processing account for about one-third of GDP and two-thirds of total export earnings.
During the period 1983-88 the economy experienced slow growth, high inflation, a rising foreign debt, and a drop in foreign exchange earnings.
Recent increases in foreign prices for copper--a key export earner--and other minerals offer some hope of reversing the economic decline.
LUSAKA; Chancery at 2419 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 265-9717 through 9721; US--Ambassador Jeffrey DAVIDOW; Embassy at corner of Independence Avenue and United Nations Avenue, Lusaka (mailing address is P.
Economic difficulties stem from a sustained drop in copper production and ineffective economic policies.
In 1988 real GDP stood only slightly higher than that of 10 years before, while an annual population growth of more than 3% has brought a decline in per capita GDP of 25% during the same period.
The agro-based manufacturing sector produces a variety of goods and contributes about 25% to GDP.
Mining accounts for only 5% of both GDP and employment, but supplies of minerals and metals account for about 40% of exports.
Real growth in GNP has averaged about 9% a year during the past three decades. Export growth has been even faster and has provided the impetus for industrialization.
Agriculture contributes about 6% to GNP, down from 35% in 1952.
Taiwan currently ranks as number 13 among major trading countries.
Ahab and the Carpenter CIX.-The Cabin.
Ahab and Pip CXXXI.-The Hat CXXXII.-The Pequod meets the Delight CXXXIII.-The Symphony CXXXIV.-The Chase.
Third Day EPILOGUE MOBY-DICK; OR, THE WHALE. ETYMOLOGY. (SUPPLIED BY A LATE CONSUMPTIVE USHER TO A GRAMMAR SCHOOL.) The pale Usher-threadbare in coat, heart, body, and brain; I see him now.
He was ever dusting his old lexicons and grammars, with a queer handkerchief, mockingly embellished with all the gay flags of all the known nations of the world.
Therefore you must not, in every case at least, take the higgledy-piggledy whale statements, however authentic, in these extracts, for veritable gospel cetology.
For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world, by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless!
Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye!
But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal-mast with your hearts; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven-storied heavens, and making refugees of long-pampered Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael, against your coming.
He said that he was one of six who had killed sixty in two days." _Other or Octher's verbal narrative taken down from his mouth by King Alfred, A.
Preface to Gondibert._ "What spermacetti is, men might justly doubt, since the learned Hosmannus in his work of thirty years, saith plainly, _Nescio quid sit_." _Sir T.
Of Sperma Ceti and the Sperma Ceti Whale.
D._ 1668. "Whales in the sea God's voice obey." _N.
Primer._ "We saw also abundance of large whales, there being more in those southern seas, as I may say, by a hundred to one; than we have to the northward of us." _Captain Cowley's Voyage round the Globe, A.
The whale is doubtless the largest animal in creation." _Goldsmith, Nat.
They seemed to endeavor to conceal themselves behind the whale, in order to avoid being seen by us." _Cook's Voyages._ "The larger whales, they seldom venture to attack.
Mr. Chace, what is the matter?
I answered, "we have been stove by a whale." _"Narrative of the Shipwreck of the Whale Ship Essex of Nantucket, which was attacked and finally destroyed by a large Sperm Whale in the Pacific Ocean.
By Owen Chace of Nantucket, first mate of said vessel.
There she blows," was sung out from the mast-head. "Where away?" demanded the captain. "Three points off the lee bow, sir." "Raise up your wheel.
Steady!" "Steady, sir." "Mast-head ahoy!
Do you see that whale now?" "Ay ay, sir!
A shoal of Sperm Whales!
There she breaches!" "Sing out! sing out every time!" "Ay Ay, sir!
There she blows! there-there-_thar_ she blows-bowes-bo-o-os!" "How far off?" "Two miles and a half." "Thunder and lightning! so near!
Ross Browne's Etchings of a Whaling Cruize_.
1846. "The Whale-ship Globe, on board of which vessel occurred the horrid transactions we are about to relate, belonged to the island of Nantucket." "_Narrative of the Globe Mutiny_," _by Lay and Hussey survivors.
There is a population of eight or nine thousand persons living here in the sea, adding largely every year to the National wealth by the boldest and most persevering industry." _Report of Daniel Webster's Speech in the U.
Cheever._ "If you make the least damn bit of noise," replied Samuel, "I will send you to hell." _Life of Samuel Comstock (the mutineer), by his brother, William Comstock.
The vessel under short sail, with look-outs at the mast-heads, eagerly scanning the wide expanse around them, has a totally different air from those engaged in regular voyage." _Currents and Whaling.
Some years ago-never mind how long precisely-having little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular to interest me on shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery part of the world.
It is a way I have of driving off the spleen, and regulating the circulation.
This is my substitute for pistol and ball.
With a philosophical flourish Cato throws himself upon his sword; I quietly take to the ship.
There is nothing surprising in this.
Right and left, the streets take you waterward.
Its extreme down-town is the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and cooled by breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of land.
Look at the crowds of water-gazers there. Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon.
Go from Corlears Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by Whitehall, northward.
What do you see?-Posted like silent sentinels all around the town, stand thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries.
Some leaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads; some looking over the bulwarks of ships from China; some high aloft in the rigging, as if striving to get a still better seaward peep.
But these are all landsmen; of week days pent up in lath and plaster-tied to counters, nailed to benches, clinched to desks.
Are the green fields gone?
What do they here? But look! here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and seemingly bound for a dive.
Nothing will content them but the extremest limit of the land; loitering under the shady lee of yonder warehouses will not suffice.
No. They must get just as nigh the water as they possibly can without falling in. And there they stand-miles of them-leagues.
Inlanders all, they come from lanes and alleys, streets and avenues-north, east, south, and west.
Yet here they all unite. Tell me, does the magnetic virtue of the needles of the compasses of all those ships attract them thither? Once more.
Say, you are in the country; in some high land of lakes. Take almost any path you please, and ten to one it carries you down in a dale, and leaves you there by a pool in the stream.
There is magic in it.
Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded for ever. But here is an artist.
He desires to paint you the dreamiest, shadiest, quietest, most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valley of the Saco.
What is the chief element he employs?
There stand his trees, each with a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a crucifix were within; and here sleeps his meadow, and there sleep his cattle; and up from yonder cottage goes a sleepy smoke.
Deep into distant woodlands winds a mazy way, reaching to overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in their hill-side blue.
But though the picture lies thus tranced, and though this pine-tree shakes down its sighs like leaves upon this shepherd's head, yet all were vain, unless the shepherd's eye were fixed upon the magic stream before him.
Go visit the Prairies in June, when for scores on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among Tiger-lilies-what is the one charm wanting?-Water-there is not a drop of water there!
Were Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travel your thousand miles to see it?
Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon suddenly receiving two handfuls of silver, deliberate whether to buy him a coat, which he sadly needed, or invest his money in a pedestrian trip to Rockaway Beach?
Why did the old Persians hold the sea holy?
Why did the Greeks give it a separate deity, and own brother of Jove?
Surely all this is not without meaning.
And still deeper the meaning of that story of Narcissus, who because he could not grasp the tormenting, mild image he saw in the fountain, plunged into it and was drowned.
But that same image, we ourselves see in all rivers and oceans.
For to go as a passenger you must needs have a purse, and a purse is but a rag unless you have something in it.
I abandon the glory and distinction of such offices to those who like them.
For my part, I abominate all honorable respectable toils, trials, and tribulations of every kind whatsoever.
And at first, this sort of thing is unpleasant enough.
It touches one's sense of honor, particularly if you come of an old established family in the land, the Van Rensselaers, or Randolphs, or Hardicanutes.
And more than all, if just previous to putting your hand into the tar-pot, you have been lording it as a country schoolmaster, making the tallest boys stand in awe of you.
The transition is a keen one, I assure you, from a schoolmaster to a sailor, and requires a strong decoction of Seneca and the Stoics to enable you to grin and bear it.
But even this wears off in time. What of it, if some old hunks of a sea-captain orders me to get a broom and sweep down the decks?
What does that indignity amount to, weighed, I mean, in the scales of the New Testament?
Do you think the archangel Gabriel thinks anything the less of me, because I promptly and respectfully obey that old hunks in that particular instance?
On the contrary, passengers themselves must pay.
And there is all the difference in the world between paying and being paid.
The act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable infliction that the two orchard thieves entailed upon us.
But _being paid_,-what will compare with it?
The urbane activity with which a man receives money is really marvellous, considering that we so earnestly believe money to be the root of all earthly ills, and that on no account can a monied man enter heaven.
Ah! how cheerfully we consign ourselves to perdition! Finally, I always go to sea as a sailor, because of the wholesome exercise and pure air of the forecastle deck.
He thinks he breathes it first; but not so.
It came in as a sort of brief interlude and solo between more extensive performances.
Such a portentous and mysterious monster roused all my curiosity.
Then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his island bulk; the undeliverable, nameless perils of the whale; these, with all the attending marvels of a thousand Patagonian sights and sounds, helped to sway me to my wish.
With other men, perhaps, such things would not have been inducements; but as for me, I am tormented with an everlasting itch for things remote.
I love to sail forbidden seas, and land on barbarous coasts.
Quitting the good city of old Manhatto, I duly arrived in New Bedford.
It was on a Saturday night in December.
For my mind was made up to sail in no other than a Nantucket craft, because there was a fine, boisterous something about everything connected with that famous old island, which amazingly pleased me.
Where else but from Nantucket did those aboriginal whalemen, the Red-Men, first sally out in canoes to give chase to the Leviathan?
It was a very dubious-looking, nay, a very dark and dismal night, bitingly cold and cheerless.
I knew no one in the place.
Too expensive and jolly, again thought I, pausing one moment to watch the broad glare in the street, and hear the sounds of the tinkling glasses within.
But go on, Ishmael, said I at last; don't you hear? get away from before the door; your patched boots are stopping the way.
But presently I came to a smoky light proceeding from a low, wide building, the door of which stood invitingly open.
It had a careless look, as if it were meant for the uses of the public; so, entering, the first thing I did was to stumble over an ash-box in the porch.
Ha! thought I, ha, as the flying particles almost choked me, are these ashes from that destroyed city, Gomorrah?
But "The Crossed Harpoons," and "The Sword-Fish?"-this, then, must needs be the sign of "The Trap.
However, I picked myself up and hearing a loud voice within, pushed on and opened a second, interior door. It seemed the great Black Parliament sitting in Tophet.
A hundred black faces turned round in their rows to peer; and beyond, a black Angel of Doom was beating a book in a pulpit.
It was a negro church; and the preacher's text was about the blackness of darkness, and the weeping and wailing and teeth-gnashing there.
But it is a common name in Nantucket, they say, and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there.
It stood on a sharp bleak corner, where that tempestuous wind Euroclydon kept up a worse howling than ever it did about poor Paul's tossed craft.
Euroclydon, nevertheless, is a mighty pleasant zephyr to any one in-doors, with his feet on the hob quietly toasting for bed.
True enough, thought I, as this passage occurred to my mind-old black-letter, thou reasonest well.
Yes, these eyes are windows, and this body of mine is the house.
What a pity they didn't stop up the chinks and the crannies though, and thrust in a little lint here and there.
But it's too late to make any improvements now.
The universe is finished; the copestone is on, and the chips were carted off a million years ago.
Euroclydon! says old Dives, in his red silken wrapper-(he had a redder one afterwards) pooh, pooh!
What a fine frosty night; how Orion glitters; what northern lights!
Let them talk of their oriental summer climes of everlasting conservatories; give me the privilege of making my own summer with my own coals. But what thinks Lazarus?
Can he warm his blue hands by holding them up to the grand northern lights?
Would not Lazarus rather be in Sumatra than here?
Such unaccountable masses of shades and shadows, that at first you almost thought some ambitious young artist, in the time of the New England hags, had endeavored to delineate chaos bewitched.
A boggy, soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive a nervous man distracted.
Yet was there a sort of indefinite, half-attained, unimaginable sublimity about it that fairly froze you to it, till you involuntarily took an oath with yourself to find out what that marvellous painting meant.
But at last all these fancies yielded to that one portentous something in the picture's midst. _That_ once found out, and all the rest were plain.
Some were thickly set with glittering teeth resembling ivory saws; others were tufted with knots of human hair; and one was sickle-shaped, with a vast handle sweeping round like the segment made in the new-mown grass by a long-armed mower.
You shuddered as you gazed, and wondered what monstrous cannibal and savage could ever have gone a death-harvesting with such a hacking, horrifying implement.
Mixed with these were rusty old whaling lances and harpoons all broken and deformed.
With this once long lance, now wildly elbowed, fifty years ago did Nathan Swain kill fifteen whales between a sunrise and a sunset.
On one side stood a long, low, shelf-like table covered with cracked glass cases, filled with dusty rarities gathered from this wide world's remotest nooks.
Projecting from the further angle of the room stands a dark-looking den-the bar-a rude attempt at a right whale's head.
Be that how it may, there stands the vast arched bone of the whale's jaw, so wide, a coach might almost drive beneath it.
Though true cylinders without-within, the villanous green goggling glasses deceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom.
Parallel meridians rudely pecked into the glass, surround these footpads' goblets.
But avast," he added, tapping his forehead, "you haint no objections to sharing a harpooneer's blanket, have ye?
All right; take a seat.
Supper 'll be ready directly." I sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all over like a bench on the Battery.
At one end a ruminating tar was still further adorning it with his jack-knife, stooping over and diligently working away at the space between his legs.
He was trying his hand at a ship under full sail, but he didn't make much headway, I thought. At last some four or five of us were summoned to our meal in an adjoining room.
It was cold as Iceland-no fire at all-the landlord said he couldn't afford it.
Nothing but two dismal tallow candles, each in a winding sheet.
We were fain to button up our monkey jackets, and hold to our lips cups of scalding tea with our half frozen fingers.
But the fare was of the most substantial kind-not only meat and potatoes, but dumplings; good heavens! dumplings for supper!
Is he here?" "He'll be here afore long," was the answer. I could not help it, but I began to feel suspicious of this "dark complexioned" harpooneer.
Starting up, the landlord cried, "That's the Grampus's crew.
I seed her reported in the offing this morning; a three years' voyage, and a full ship.
Hurrah, boys; now we'll have the latest news from the Feegees." A tramping of sea boots was heard in the entry; the door was flung open, and in rolled a wild set of mariners enough.
Enveloped in their shaggy watch coats, and with their heads muffled in woollen comforters, all bedarned and ragged, and their beards stiff with icicles, they seemed an eruption of bears from Labrador.
They had just landed from their boat, and this was the first house they entered.
No wonder, then, that they made a straight wake for the whale's mouth-the bar-when the wrinkled little old Jonah, there officiating, soon poured them out brimmers all round.
He stood full six feet in height, with noble shoulders, and a chest like a coffer-dam. I have seldom seen such brawn in a man.
His face was deeply brown and burnt, making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast; while in the deep shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem to give him much joy.
In a few minutes, however, he was missed by his shipmates, and being, it seems, for some reason a huge favorite with them, they raised a cry of "Bulkington!
In fact, you would a good deal rather not sleep with your own brother.
I don't know how it is, but people like to be private when they are sleeping.
And when it comes to sleeping with an unknown stranger, in a strange inn, in a strange town, and that stranger a harpooneer, then your objections indefinitely multiply.
Nor was there any earthly reason why I as a sailor should sleep two in a bed, more than anybody else; for sailors no more sleep two in a bed at sea, than bachelor Kings do ashore.
It was fair to presume that being a harpooneer, his linen or woollen, as the case might be, would not be of the tidiest, certainly none of the finest.
I began to twitch all over.
Besides, it was getting late, and my decent harpooneer ought to be home and going bedwards.
Suppose now, he should tumble in upon me at midnight-how could I tell from what vile hole he had been coming? "Landlord!
I've changed my mind about that harpooneer.-I shan't sleep with him.
I'll try the bench here." "Just as you please; I'm sorry I cant spare ye a tablecloth for a mattress, and it's a plaguy rough board here"-feeling of the knots and notches.
But wait a bit, Skrimshander; I've got a carpenter's plane there in the bar-wait, I say, and I'll make ye snug enough.
So saying he procured the plane; and with his old silk handkerchief first dusting the bench, vigorously set to planing away at my bed, the while grinning like an ape.
The shavings flew right and left; till at last the plane-iron came bump against an indestructible knot.
But it was a foot too narrow, and the other bench in the room was about four inches higher than the planed one-so there was no yoking them.
It seemed no bad idea; but upon second thoughts I dismissed it.
Thinks I, I'll wait awhile; he must be dropping in before long.
It was now hard upon twelve o'clock. The landlord chuckled again with his lean chuckle, and seemed to be mightily tickled at something beyond my comprehension.
Hecla in a snow storm,-"landlord, stop whittling.
You and I must understand one another, and that too without delay.
I come to your house and want a bed; you tell me you can only give me half a one; that the other half belongs to a certain harpooneer.
I now demand of you to speak out and tell me who and what this harpooneer is, and whether I shall be in all respects safe to spend the night with him.
But come, it's getting dreadful late, you had better be turning flukes-it's a nice bed: Sal and me slept in that ere bed the night we were spliced.
There's plenty room for two to kick about in that bed; it's an almighty big bed that.
Why, afore we give it up, Sal used to put our Sam and little Johnny in the foot of it.
But I got a dreaming and sprawling about one night, and somehow, Sam got pitched on the floor, and came near breaking his arm. Arter that, Sal said it wouldn't do.
Come along here, I'll give ye a glim in a jiffy;" and so saying he lighted a candle and held it towards me, offering to lead the way.
I turned round from eyeing the bed, but he had disappeared. Folding back the counterpane, I stooped over the bed.
Though none of the most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well.
I then glanced round the room; and besides the bedstead and centre table, could see no other furniture belonging to the place, but a rude shelf, the four walls, and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale.
Of things not properly belonging to the room, there was a hammock lashed up, and thrown upon the floor in one corner; also a large seaman's bag, containing the harpooneer's wardrobe, no doubt in lieu of a land trunk.
Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire-place, and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed. But what is this on the chest?
I took it up, and held it close to the light, and felt it, and smelt it, and tried every way possible to arrive at some satisfactory conclusion concerning it.
I can compare it to nothing but a large door mat, ornamented at the edges with little tinkling tags something like the stained porcupine quills round an Indian moccasin.
There was a hole or slit in the middle of this mat, as you see the same in South American ponchos.
But could it be possible that any sober harpooneer would get into a door mat, and parade the streets of any Christian town in that sort of guise?
I put it on, to try it, and it weighed me down like a hamper, being uncommonly shaggy and thick, and I thought a little damp, as though this mysterious harpooneer had been wearing it of a rainy day.
I went up in it to a bit of glass stuck against the wall, and I never saw such a sight in my life.
I tore myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink in the neck. I sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced thinking about this head-peddling harpooneer, and his door mat.
After thinking some time on the bed-side, I got up and took off my monkey jacket, and then stood in the middle of the room thinking.
I then took off my coat, and thought a little more in my shirt sleeves.
But I lay perfectly still, and resolved not to say a word till spoken to.
I was all eagerness to see his face, but he kept it averted for some time while employed in unlacing the bag's mouth.
This accomplished, however, he turned round-when, good heavens! what a sight!
It was of a dark purplish, yellow color, here and there stuck over with large, blackish looking squares.
Yes, it's just as I thought, he's a terrible bedfellow; he's been in a fight, got dreadfully cut, and here he is, just from the surgeon.
But at that moment he chanced to turn his face so towards the light, that I plainly saw they could not be sticking-plasters at all, those black squares on his cheeks.
They were stains of some sort or other.
At first I knew not what to make of this; but soon an inkling of the truth occurred to me.
I remembered a story of a white man-a whaleman too-who, falling among the cannibals, had been tattooed by them.
I concluded that this harpooneer, in the course of his distant voyages, must have met with a similar adventure. And what is it, thought I, after all!
It's only his outside; a man can be honest in any sort of skin.
But then, what to make of his unearthly complexion, that part of it, I mean, lying round about, and completely independent of the squares of tattooing.
To be sure, it might be nothing but a good coat of tropical tanning; but I never heard of a hot sun's tanning a white man into a purplish yellow one.
However, I had never been in the South Seas; and perhaps the sun there produced these extraordinary effects upon the skin.
Now, while all these ideas were passing through me like lightning, this harpooneer never noticed me at all.
But, after some difficulty having opened his bag, he commenced fumbling in it, and presently pulled out a sort of tomahawk, and a seal-skin wallet with the hair on.
Placing these on the old chest in the middle of the room, he then took the New Zealand head-a ghastly thing enough-and crammed it down into the bag.
He now took off his hat-a new beaver hat-when I came nigh singing out with fresh surprise. There was no hair on his head-none to speak of at least-nothing but a small scalp-knot twisted up on his forehead.
His bald purplish head now looked for all the world like a mildewed skull.
Still more, his very legs were marked, as if a parcel of dark green frogs were running up the trunks of young palms.
It was now quite plain that he must be some abominable savage or other shipped aboard of a whaleman in the South Seas, and so landed in this Christian country.
I quaked to think of it.
A peddler of heads too-perhaps the heads of his own brothers.
He might take a fancy to mine-heavens! look at that tomahawk! But there was no time for shuddering, for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention, and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen.
Remembering the embalmed head, at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner.
But seeing that it was not at all limber, and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony, I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol, which indeed it proved to be.
For now the savage goes up to the empty fire-place, and removing the papered fire-board, sets up this little hunchbacked image, like a tenpin, between the andirons.
But the little devil did not seem to fancy such dry sort of fare at all; he never moved his lips.
The next moment the light was extinguished, and this wild cannibal, tomahawk between his teeth, sprang into bed with me.
He really did this in not only a civil but a really kind and charitable way.
I stood looking at him a moment.
For all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean, comely looking cannibal.
What's all this fuss I have been making about, thought I to myself-the man's a human being just as I am: he has just as much reason to fear me, as I have to be afraid of him.
But I don't fancy having a man smoking in bed with me.
You had almost thought I had been his wife.
Let me try to explain them.
When I was a child, I well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell me; whether it was a reality or a dream, I never could entirely settle. The circumstance was this.
Sixteen hours in bed! the small of my back ached to think of it.
And it was so light too; the sun shining in at the window, and a great rattling of coaches in the streets, and the sound of gay voices all over the house.
But she was the best and most conscientious of stepmothers, and back I had to go to my room.
Instantly I felt a shock running through all my frame; nothing was to be seen, and nothing was to be heard; but a supernatural hand seemed placed in mine.
My arm hung over the counterpane, and the nameless, unimaginable, silent form or phantom, to which the hand belonged, seemed closely seated by my bedside.
I knew not how this consciousness at last glided away from me; but waking in the morning, I shudderingly remembered it all, and for days and weeks and months afterwards I lost myself in confounding attempts to explain the mystery.
But at length all the past night's events soberly recurred, one by one, in fixed reality, and then I lay only alive to the comical predicament.
For though I tried to move his arm-unlock his bridegroom clasp-yet, sleeping as he was, he still hugged me tightly, as though naught but death should part us twain.
I now strove to rouse him-"Queequeg!"-but his only answer was a snore.
I then rolled over, my neck feeling as if it were in a horse-collar; and suddenly felt a slight scratch.
Throwing aside the counterpane, there lay the tomahawk sleeping by the savage's side, as if it were a hatchet-faced baby.
A pretty pickle, truly, thought I; abed here in a strange house in the broad day, with a cannibal and a tomahawk!
Queequeg!-in the name of goodness, Queequeg, wake!
Meanwhile, I lay quietly eyeing him, having no serious misgivings now, and bent upon narrowly observing so curious a creature.
Thinks I, Queequeg, under the circumstances, this is a very civilized overture; but, the truth is, these savages have an innate sense of delicacy, say what you will; it is marvellous how essentially polite they are.
But Queequeg, do you see, was a creature in the transition state-neither caterpillar nor butterfly.
He was just enough civilized to show off his outlandishness in the strangest possible manner.
His education was not yet completed.
He complied, and then proceeded to wash himself.
At that time in the morning any Christian would have washed his face; but Queequeg, to my amazement, contented himself with restricting his ablutions to his chest, arms, and hands.
He then donned his waistcoat, and taking up a piece of hard soap on the wash-stand centre-table, dipped it into water and commenced lathering his face.
Thinks I, Queequeg, this is using Rogers's best cutlery with a vengeance.
So, if any one man, in his own proper person, afford stuff for a good joke to anybody, let him not be backward, but let him cheerfully allow himself to spend and be spent in that way.
That man next him looks a few shades lighter; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him.
In the complexion of a third still lingers a tropic tawn, but slightly bleached withal; he doubtless has tarried whole weeks ashore.
And not only that, but they looked embarrassed.
A curious sight; these bashful bears, these timid warrior whalemen! But as for Queequeg-why, Queequeg sat there among them-at the head of the table, too, it so chanced; as cool as an icicle.
To be sure I cannot say much for his breeding.
Even in Broadway and Chestnut streets, Mediterranean mariners will sometimes jostle the affrighted ladies.
Regent street is not unknown to Lascars and Malays; and at Bombay, in the Apollo Green, live Yankees have often scared the natives.
But New Bedford beats all Water street and Wapping.
In these last-mentioned haunts you see only sailors; but in New Bedford, actual cannibals stand chatting at street corners; savages outright; many of whom yet carry on their bones unholy flesh.
It makes a stranger stare. But, besides the Feegeeans, Tongatabooarrs, Erromanggoans, Pannangians, and Brighggians, and, besides the wild specimens of the whaling-craft which unheeded reel about the streets, you will see other sights still more curious, certainly more comical.
There weekly arrive in this town scores of green Vermonters and New Hampshire men, all athirst for gain and glory in the fishery.
They are mostly young, of stalwart frames; fellows who have felled forests, and now seek to drop the axe and snatch the whale-lance.
Many are as green as the Green Mountains whence they came.
In some things you would think them but a few hours old. Look there! that chap strutting round the corner.
Now when a country dandy like this takes it into his head to make a distinguished reputation, and joins the great whale-fishery, you should see the comical things he does upon reaching the seaport.
In bespeaking his sea-outfit, he orders bell-buttons to his waistcoats; straps to his canvas trowsers.
Still New Bedford is a queer place.
Had it not been for us whalemen, that tract of land would this day perhaps have been in as howling condition as the coast of Labrador.
As it is, parts of her back country are enough to frighten one, they look so bony.
The town itself is perhaps the dearest place to live in, in all New England.
It is a land of oil, true enough: but not like Canaan; a land, also, of corn and wine.
The streets do not run with milk; nor in the spring-time do they pave them with fresh eggs.
Yet, in spite of this, nowhere in all America will you find more patrician-like houses; parks and gardens more opulent, than in New Bedford.
Whence came they? how planted upon this once scraggy scoria of a country? Go and gaze upon the iron emblematical harpoons round yonder lofty mansion, and your question will be answered.
Yes; all these brave houses and flowery gardens came from the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans.
One and all, they were harpooned and dragged up hither from the bottom of the sea.
And in August, high in air, the beautiful and bountiful horse-chestnuts, candelabra-wise, proffer the passer-by their tapering upright cones of congregated blossoms.
But roses only bloom in summer; whereas the fine carnation of their cheeks is perennial as sunlight in the seventh heavens.
I am sure that I did not. Returning from my first morning stroll, I again sallied out upon this special errand.
The sky had changed from clear, sunny cold, to driving sleet and mist.
Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin, I fought my way against the stubborn storm.
Entering, I found a small scattered congregation of sailors, and sailors' wives and widows.
A muffled silence reigned, only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm.
Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other, as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable.
The chaplain had not yet arrived; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets, with black borders, masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit.
Affected by the solemnity of the scene, there was a wondering gaze of incredulous curiosity in his countenance.
This savage was the only person present who seemed to notice my entrance; because he was the only one who could not read, and, therefore, was not reading those frigid inscriptions on the wall.
What bitter blanks in those black-bordered marbles which cover no ashes!
What despair in those immovable inscriptions!
What deadly voids and unbidden infidelities in the lines that seem to gnaw upon all Faith, and refuse resurrections to the beings who have placelessly perished without a grave.
Yes, Ishmael, the same fate may be thine. But somehow I grew merry again.
Delightful inducements to embark, fine chance for promotion, it seems-aye, a stove boat will make me an immortal by brevet.
Yes, there is death in this business of whaling-a speechlessly quick chaotic bundling of a man into Eternity.
Methinks we have hugely mistaken this matter of Life and Death. Methinks that what they call my shadow here on earth is my true substance.
Methinks that in looking at things spiritual, we are too much like oysters observing the sun through the water, and thinking that thick water the thinnest of air.
Methinks my body is but the lees of my better being.
In fact take my body who will, take it I say, it is not me.
Yes, it was the famous Father Mapple, so called by the whalemen, among whom he was a very great favorite.
He had been a sailor and a harpooneer in his youth, but for many years past had dedicated his life to the ministry.
At my first glimpse of the pulpit, it had not escaped me that however convenient for a ship, these joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary.
Father Mapple enjoyed such a wide reputation for sincerity and sanctity, that I could not suspect him of courting notoriety by any mere tricks of the stage.
No, thought I, there must be some sober reason for this thing; furthermore, it must symbolize something unseen.
Can it be, then, that by that act of physical isolation, he signifies his spiritual withdrawal for the time, from all outward worldly ties and connexions?
From thence it is the storm of God's quick wrath is first descried, and the bow must bear the earliest brunt.
Starboard gangway, there! side away to larboard-larboard gangway to starboard!
Yet what depths of the soul does Jonah's deep sealine sound! what a pregnant lesson to us is this prophet!
What a noble thing is that canticle in the fish's belly!
How billow-like and boisterously grand!
We feel the floods surging over us; we sound with him to the kelpy bottom of the waters; sea-weed and all the slime of the sea is about us!
But _what_ is this lesson that the book of Jonah teaches?
Shipmates, it is a two-stranded lesson; a lesson to us all as sinful men, and a lesson to me as a pilot of the living God.
As sinful men, it is a lesson to us all, because it is a story of the sin, hard-heartedness, suddenly awakened fears, the swift punishment, repentance, prayers, and finally the deliverance and joy of Jonah.
As with all sinners among men, the sin of this son of Amittai was in his wilful disobedience of the command of God-never mind now what that command was, or how conveyed-which he found a hard command.
But all the things that God would have us do are hard for us to do-remember that-and hence, he oftener commands us than endeavors to persuade.
He thinks that a ship made by men, will carry him into countries where God does not reign, but only the Captains of this earth.
He skulks about the wharves of Joppa, and seeks a ship that's bound for Tarshish.
There lurks, perhaps, a hitherto unheeded meaning here.
By all accounts Tarshish could have been no other city than the modern Cadiz.
That's the opinion of learned men. And where is Cadiz, shipmates?
Cadiz is in Spain; as far by water, from Joppa, as Jonah could possibly have sailed in those ancient days, when the Atlantic was an almost unknown sea.
Because Joppa, the modern Jaffa, shipmates, is on the most easterly coast of the Mediterranean, the Syrian; and Tarshish or Cadiz more than two thousand miles to the westward from that, just outside the Straits of Gibraltar.
See ye not then, shipmates, that Jonah sought to flee world-wide from God? Miserable man!
Oh! most contemptible and worthy of all scorn; with slouched hat and guilty eye, skulking from his God; prowling among the shipping like a vile burglar hastening to cross the seas.
So disordered, self-condemning is his look, that had there been policemen in those days, Jonah, on the mere suspicion of something wrong, had been arrested ere he touched a deck.
How plainly he's a fugitive! no baggage, not a hat-box, valise, or carpet-bag,-no friends accompany him to the wharf with their adieux.
Jonah sees this; but in vain he tries to look all ease and confidence; in vain essays his wretched smile.
Strong intuitions of the man assure the mariners he can be no innocent.
Another runs to read the bill that's stuck against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is moored, offering five hundred gold coins for the apprehension of a parricide, and containing a description of his person.
He reads, and looks from Jonah to the bill; while all his sympathetic shipmates now crowd round Jonah, prepared to lay their hands upon him.
Frighted Jonah trembles, and summoning all his boldness to his face, only looks so much the more a coward.
He will not confess himself suspected; but that itself is strong suspicion.
Oh! how that harmless question mangles Jonah!
For the instant he almost turns to flee again. But he rallies.
I seek a passage in this ship to Tarshish; how soon sail ye, sir?
Thus far the busy Captain had not looked up to Jonah, though the man now stands before him; but no sooner does he hear that hollow voice, than he darts a scrutinizing glance.
We sail with the next coming tide,' at last he slowly answered, still intently eyeing him.
No sooner, sir?'-'Soon enough for any honest man that goes a passenger.
But he swiftly calls away the Captain from that scent.
I'll sail with ye,'-he says,-'the passage money, how much is that?-I'll pay now.
For it is particularly written, shipmates, as if it were a thing not to be overlooked in this history, 'that he paid the fare thereof' ere the craft did sail.
And taken with the context, this is full of meaning. Now Jonah's Captain, shipmates, was one whose discernment detects crime in any, but whose cupidity exposes it only in the penniless.
He charges him thrice the usual sum; and it's assented to.
Then the Captain knows that Jonah is a fugitive; but at the same time resolves to help a flight that paves its rear with gold. Yet when Jonah fairly takes out his purse, prudent suspicions still molest the Captain.
He rings every coin to find a counterfeit.
Not a forger, any way, he mutters; and Jonah is put down for his passage. 'Point out my state-room, Sir,' says Jonah now, 'I'm travel-weary; I need sleep.
Thou look'st like it,' says the Captain, 'there's thy room.
Jonah enters, and would lock the door, but the lock contains no key.
Hearing him foolishly fumbling there, the Captain laughs lowly to himself, and mutters something about the doors of convicts' cells being never allowed to be locked within.
All dressed and dusty as he is, Jonah throws himself into his berth, and finds the little state-room ceiling almost resting on his forehead.
The air is close, and Jonah gasps.
The lamp alarms and frightens Jonah; as lying in his berth his tormented eyes roll round the place, and this thus far successful fugitive finds no refuge for his restless glance.
But that contradiction in the lamp more and more appals him.
The floor, the ceiling, and the side, are all awry.
That ship, my friends, was the first of recorded smugglers! the contraband was Jonah.
But the sea rebels; he will not bear the wicked burden.
A dreadful storm comes on, the ship is like to break.
He sees no black sky and raging sea, feels not the reeling timbers, and little hears he or heeds he the far rush of the mighty whale, which even now with open mouth is cleaving the seas after him.
Aye, shipmates, Jonah was gone down into the sides of the ship-a berth in the cabin as I have taken it, and was fast asleep.
But the frightened master comes to him, and shrieks in his dead ear, 'What meanest thou, O sleeper! arise!
Startled from his lethargy by that direful cry, Jonah staggers to his feet, and stumbling to the deck, grasps a shroud, to look out upon the sea.
But at that moment he is sprung upon by a panther billow leaping over the bulwarks.
Wave after wave thus leaps into the ship, and finding no speedy vent runs roaring fore and aft, till the mariners come nigh to drowning while yet afloat.
In all his cringing attitudes, the God-fugitive is now too plainly known.
The lot is Jonah's; that discovered, then how furiously they mob him with their questions.
But mark now, my shipmates, the behavior of poor Jonah.
Aye, well mightest thou fear the Lord God _then!_ Straightway, he now goes on to make a full confession; whereupon the mariners became more and more appalled, but still are pitiful.
Then Jonah prayed unto the Lord out of the fish's belly.
But observe his prayer, and learn a weighty lesson.
For sinful as he is, Jonah does not weep and wail for direct deliverance.
He feels that his dreadful punishment is just.
He leaves all his deliverance to God, contenting himself with this, that spite of all his pains and pangs, he will still look towards His holy temple.
And here, shipmates, is true and faithful repentance; not clamorous for pardon, but grateful for punishment.
And how pleasing to God was this conduct in Jonah, is shown in the eventual deliverance of him from the sea and the whale.
Shipmates, I do not place Jonah before you to be copied for his sin but I do place him before you as a model for repentance.
I have read ye by what murky light may be mine the lesson that Jonah teaches to all sinners; and therefore to ye, and still more to me, for I am a greater sinner than ye.
But God is everywhere; Tarshish he never reached.
Yet even then beyond the reach of any plummet-'out of the belly of hell'-when the whale grounded upon the ocean's utmost bones, even then, God heard the engulphed, repenting prophet when he cried.
And what was that, shipmates?
To preach the Truth to the face of Falsehood!
That was it! "This, shipmates, this is that other lesson; and woe to that pilot of the living God who slights it.
Woe to him whom this world charms from Gospel duty!
Woe to him who seeks to pour oil upon the waters when God has brewed them into a gale!
Woe to him who seeks to please rather than to appal!
Woe to him whose good name is more to him than goodness!
Woe to him who, in this world, courts not dishonor!
Woe to him who would not be true, even though to be false were salvation!
Is not the main-truck higher than the kelson is low?
Delight is to him-a far, far upward, and inward delight-who against the proud gods and commodores of this earth, ever stands forth his own inexorable self.
Delight is to him whose strong arms yet support him, when the ship of this base treacherous world has gone down beneath him.
Delight is to him, who gives no quarter in the truth, and kills, burns, and destroys all sin though he pluck it out from under the robes of Senators and Judges.
Delight,-top-gallant delight is to him, who acknowledges no law or lord, but the Lord his God, and is only a patriot to heaven.
Delight is to him, whom all the waves of the billows of the seas of the boisterous mob can never shake from this sure Keel of the Ages.
And eternal delight and deliciousness will be his, who coming to lay him down, can say with his final breath-O Father!-chiefly known to me by Thy rod-mortal or immortal, here I die.
I have striven to be Thine, more than to be this world's, or mine own.
Savage though he was, and hideously marred about the face-at least to my taste-his countenance yet had a something in it which was by no means disagreeable.
You cannot hide the soul.
Through all his unearthly tattooings, I thought I saw the traces of a simple honest heart; and in his large, deep eyes, fiery black and bold, there seemed tokens of a spirit that would dare a thousand devils.
And besides all this, there was a certain lofty bearing about the Pagan, which even his uncouthness could not altogether maim.
He looked like a man who had never cringed and never had had a creditor.
It may seem ridiculous, but it reminded me of General Washington's head, as seen in the popular busts of him.
It had the same long regularly graded retreating slope from above the brows, which were likewise very projecting, like two long promontories thickly wooded on top.
Considering how sociably we had been sleeping together the night previous, and especially considering the affectionate arm I had found thrown over me upon waking in the morning, I thought this indifference of his very strange.
But savages are strange beings; at times you do not know exactly how to take them.
At first they are overawing; their calm self-collectedness of simplicity seems a Socratic wisdom. I had noticed also that Queequeg never consorted at all, or but very little, with the other seamen in the inn.
He made no advances whatever; appeared to have no desire to enlarge the circle of his acquaintances. All this struck me as mighty singular; yet, upon second thoughts, there was something almost sublime in it.
Surely this was a touch of fine philosophy; though no doubt he had never heard there was such a thing as that.
But, perhaps, to be true philosophers, we mortals should not be conscious of so living or so striving.
I felt a melting in me.
No more my splintered heart and maddened hand were turned against the wolfish world.
This soothing savage had redeemed it.
There he sat, his very indifference speaking a nature in which there lurked no civilized hypocrisies and bland deceits.
Wild he was; a very sight of sights to see; yet I began to feel myself mysteriously drawn towards him.
And those same things that would have repelled most others, they were the very magnets that thus drew me.
I'll try a pagan friend, thought I, since Christian kindness has proved but hollow courtesy.
I drew my bench near him, and made some friendly signs and hints, doing my best to talk with him meanwhile.
At first he little noticed these advances; but presently, upon my referring to his last night's hospitalities, he made out to ask me whether we were again to be bedfellows.
Thus I soon engaged his interest; and from that we went to jabbering the best we could about the various outer sights to be seen in this famous town.
Soon I proposed a social smoke; and, producing his pouch and tomahawk, he quietly offered me a puff.
I was going to remonstrate; but he silenced me by pouring them into my trowsers' pockets.
I let them stay. He then went about his evening prayers, took out his idol, and removed the paper fireboard.
How then could I unite with this wild idolator in worshipping his piece of wood?
But what is worship? thought I. Do you suppose now, Ishmael, that the magnanimous God of heaven and earth-pagans and all included-can possibly be jealous of an insignificant bit of black wood?
But what is worship?-to do the will of God-_that_ is worship.
And what is the will of God?-to do to my fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me-_that_ is the will of God.
Now, Queequeg is my fellow man.
And what do I wish that this Queequeg would do to me?
Why, unite with me in my particular Presbyterian form of worship.
Consequently, I must then unite with him in his; ergo, I must turn idolator.
But we did not go to sleep without some little chat. How it is I know not; but there is no place like a bed for confidential disclosures between friends.
Man and wife, they say, there open the very bottom of their souls to each other; and some old couples often lie and chat over old times till nearly morning.
We felt very nice and snug, the more so since it was so chilly out of doors; indeed out of bed-clothes too, seeing that there was no fire in the room.
The more so, I say, because truly to enjoy bodily warmth, some small part of you must be cold, for there is no quality in this world that is not what it is merely by contrast.
Nothing exists in itself. If you flatter yourself that you are all over comfortable, and have been so a long time, then you cannot be said to be comfortable any more.
For the height of this sort of deliciousness is to have nothing but the blanket between you and your snugness and the cold of the outer air.
Because no man can ever feel his own identity aright except his eyes be closed; as if darkness were indeed the proper element of our essences, though light be more congenial to our clayey part.
Upon opening my eyes then, and coming out of my own pleasant and self-created darkness into the imposed and coarse outer gloom of the unilluminated twelve-o'clock-at-night, I experienced a disagreeable revulsion.
Be it said, that though I had felt such a strong repugnance to his smoking in the bed the night before, yet see how elastic our stiff prejudices grow when love once comes to bend them.
For now I liked nothing better than to have Queequeg smoking by me, even in bed, because he seemed to be full of such serene household joy then.
I no more felt unduly concerned for the landlord's policy of insurance.
His father was a High Chief, a King; his uncle a High Priest; and on the maternal side he boasted aunts who were the wives of unconquerable warriors.
There was excellent blood in his veins-royal stuff; though sadly vitiated, I fear, by the cannibal propensity he nourished in his untutored youth. A Sag Harbor ship visited his father's bay, and Queequeg sought a passage to Christian lands.
But the ship, having her full complement of seamen, spurned his suit; and not all the King his father's influence could prevail.
But Queequeg vowed a vow.
Alone in his canoe, he paddled off to a distant strait, which he knew the ship must pass through when she quitted the island.
On one side was a coral reef; on the other a low tongue of land, covered with mangrove thickets that grew out into the water.
Struck by his desperate dauntlessness, and his wild desire to visit Christendom, the captain at last relented, and told him he might make himself at home.
But this fine young savage-this sea Prince of Wales, never saw the captain's cabin.
They put him down among the sailors, and made a whaleman of him.
But like Czar Peter content to toil in the shipyards of foreign cities, Queequeg disdained no seeming ignominy, if thereby he might happily gain the power of enlightening his untutored countrymen.
For at bottom-so he told me-he was actuated by a profound desire to learn among the Christians, the arts whereby to make his people still happier than they were; and more than that, still better than they were.
But, alas! the practices of whalemen soon convinced him that even Christians could be both miserable and wicked; infinitely more so, than all his father's heathens.
Arrived at last in old Sag Harbor; and seeing what the sailors did there; and then going on to Nantucket, and seeing how they spent their wages in _that_ place also, poor Queequeg gave it up for lost.
Thought he, it's a wicked world in all meridians; I'll die a pagan. And thus an old idolator at heart, he yet lived among these Christians, wore their clothes, and tried to talk their gibberish.
He answered no, not yet; and added that he was fearful Christianity, or rather Christians, had unfitted him for ascending the pure and undefiled throne of thirty pagan Kings before him.
But by and by, he said, he would return,-as soon as he felt himself baptized again.
For the nonce, however, he proposed to sail about, and sow his wild oats in all four oceans.
They had made a harpooneer of him, and that barbed iron was in lieu of a sceptre now. I asked him what might be his immediate purpose, touching his future movements.
He answered, to go to sea again, in his old vocation.
Upon this, I told him that whaling was my own design, and informed him of my intention to sail out of Nantucket, as being the most promising port for an adventurous whaleman to embark from.
As we were going along the people stared; not at Queequeg so much-for they were used to seeing cannibals like him in their streets,-but at seeing him and me upon such confidential terms.
But we heeded them not, going along wheeling the barrow by turns, and Queequeg now and then stopping to adjust the sheath on his harpoon barbs.
I asked him why he carried such a troublesome thing with him ashore, and whether all whaling ships did not find their own harpoons.
It was in Sag Harbor. The owners of his ship, it seems, had lent him one, in which to carry his heavy chest to his boarding house.
Why," said I, "Queequeg, you might have known better than that, one would think.
Didn't the people laugh?" Upon this, he told me another story.
Now," said Queequeg, "what you tink now?-Didn't our people laugh?" At last, passage paid, and luggage safe, we stood on board the schooner.
Hoisting sail, it glided down the Acushnet river.
On one side, New Bedford rose in terraces of streets, their ice-covered trees all glittering in the clear, cold air.
Such is the endlessness, yea, the intolerableness of all earthly effort. Gaining the more open water, the bracing breeze waxed fresh; the little Moss tossed the quick foam from her bows, as a young colt his snortings.
But there were some boobies and bumpkins there, who, by their intense greenness, must have come from the heart and centre of all verdure.
Queequeg caught one of these young saplings mimicking him behind his back.
I thought the bumpkin's hour of doom was come.
Capting!" yelled the bumpkin, running towards that officer; "Capting, Capting, here's the devil." "Hallo, _you_ sir," cried the Captain, a gaunt rib of the sea, stalking up to Queequeg, "what in thunder do you mean by that?
The prodigious strain upon the main-sail had parted the weather-sheet, and the tremendous boom was now flying from side to side, completely sweeping the entire after part of the deck.
The poor fellow whom Queequeg had handled so roughly, was swept overboard; all hands were in a panic; and to attempt snatching at the boom to stay it, seemed madness.
It flew from right to left, and back again, almost in one ticking of a watch, and every instant seemed on the point of snapping into splinters.
Nothing was done, and nothing seemed capable of being done; those on deck rushed towards the bows, and stood eyeing the boom as if it were the lower jaw of an exasperated whale.
The schooner was run into the wind, and while the hands were clearing away the stern boat, Queequeg, stripped to the waist, darted from the side with a long living arc of a leap.
For three minutes or more he was seen swimming like a dog, throwing his long arms straight out before him, and by turns revealing his brawny shoulders through the freezing foam.
I looked at the grand and glorious fellow, but saw no one to be saved.
The greenhorn had gone down.
Shooting himself perpendicularly from the water, Queequeg now took an instant's glance around him, and seeming to see just how matters were, dived down and disappeared.
A few minutes more, and he rose again, one arm still striking out, and with the other dragging a lifeless form.
The boat soon picked them up.
The poor bumpkin was restored.
All hands voted Queequeg a noble trump; the captain begged his pardon.
From that hour I clove to Queequeg like a barnacle; yea, till poor Queequeg took his last long dive. Was there ever such unconsciousness?
He did not seem to think that he at all deserved a medal from the Humane and Magnanimous Societies.
We cannibals must help these Christians." CHAPTER XIV. NANTUCKET. Nothing more happened on the passage worthy the mentioning; so, after a fine run, we safely arrived in Nantucket. Nantucket!
Take out your map and look at it.
See what a real corner of the world it occupies; how it stands there, away off shore, more lonely than the Eddystone lighthouse.
Look at it-a mere hillock, and elbow of sand; all beach, without a background.
There is more sand there than you would use in twenty years as a substitute for blotting paper.
But these extravaganzas only show that Nantucket is no Illinois. Look now at the wondrous traditional story of how this island was settled by the red-men.
In olden times an eagle swooped down upon the New England coast, and carried off an infant Indian in his talons.
With loud lament the parents saw their child borne out of sight over the wide waters.
They resolved to follow in the same direction.
Let America add Mexico to Texas, and pile Cuba upon Canada; let the English overswarm all India, and hang out their blazing banner from the sun; two thirds of this terraqueous globe are the Nantucketer's.
For the sea is his; he owns it, as Emperors own empires; other seamen having but a right of way through it.
In short, he plainly hinted that we could not possibly do better than try pot-luck at the Try Pots.
A sort of crick was in my neck as I gazed up to the two remaining horns; yes, _two_ of them, one for Queequeg, and one for me.
A Coffin my Innkeeper upon landing in my first whaling port; tombstones staring at me in the whalemen's chapel; and here a gallows! and a pair of prodigious black pots too!
There's Mrs. Hussey." And so it turned out; Mr. Hosea Hussey being from home, but leaving Mrs. Hussey entirely competent to attend to all his affairs.
But when that smoking chowder came in, the mystery was delightfully explained.
Oh, sweet friends! hearken to me.
It was made of small juicy clams, scarcely bigger than hazel nuts, mixed with pounded ship biscuit, and salted pork cut up into little flakes; the whole enriched with butter, and plentifully seasoned with pepper and salt.
Stepping to the kitchen door, I uttered the word "cod" with great emphasis, and resumed my seat.
But look, Queequeg, ain't that a live eel in your bowl?
Where's your harpoon?" Fishiest of all fishy places was the Try Pots, which well deserved its name; for the pots there were always boiling chowders.
Chowder for breakfast, and chowder for dinner, and chowder for supper, till you began to look for fish-bones coming through your clothes.
The area before the house was paved with clam-shells.
Mrs. Hussey wore a polished necklace of codfish vertebra; and Hosea Hussey had his account books bound in superior old shark-skin.
Why not?" said I; "every true whaleman sleeps with his harpoon-but why not?
Because it's dangerous," says she.
So, Mr. Queequeg" (for she had learned his name), "I will just take this here iron, and keep it for you till morning.
But the chowder; clam or cod to-morrow for breakfast, men?" "Both," says I; "and let's have a couple of smoked herring by way of variety." CHAPTER XVI. THE SHIP. In bed we concocted our plans for the morrow.
I had not a little relied upon Queequeg's sagacity to point out the whaler best fitted to carry us and our fortunes securely.
But as all my remonstrances produced no effect upon Queequeg, I was obliged to acquiesce; and accordingly prepared to set about this business with a determined rushing sort of energy and vigor, that should quickly settle that trifling little affair.
She was a ship of the old school, rather small if anything; with an old fashioned claw-footed look about her.
Long seasoned and weather-stained in the typhoons and calms of all four oceans, her old hull's complexion was darkened like a French grenadier's, who has alike fought in Egypt and Siberia.
Her venerable bows looked bearded.
But to all these her old antiquities, were added new and marvellous features, pertaining to the wild business that for more than half a century she had followed.
She was apparelled like any barbaric Ethiopian emperor, his neck heavy with pendants of polished ivory.
She was a thing of trophies.
A cannibal of a craft, tricking herself forth in the chased bones of her enemies.
All round, her unpanelled, open bulwarks were garnished like one continuous jaw, with the long sharp teeth of the sperm whale, inserted there for pins, to fasten her old hempen thews and tendons to.
Those thews ran not through base blocks of land wood, but deftly travelled over sheaves of sea-ivory.
Scorning a turnstile wheel at her reverend helm, she sported there a tiller; and that tiller was in one mass, curiously carved from the long narrow lower jaw of her hereditary foe.
The helmsman who steered by that tiller in a tempest, felt like the Tartar, when he holds back his fiery steed by clutching its jaw.
A noble craft, but somehow a most melancholy!
It seemed only a temporary erection used in port.
It was of a conical shape, some ten feet high; consisting of the long, huge slabs of limber black bone taken from the middle and highest part of the jaws of the right-whale.
I see thou art no Nantucketer-ever been in a stove boat?" "No, Sir, I never have." "Dost know nothing at all about whaling, I dare say-eh?" "Nothing, Sir; but I have no doubt I shall soon learn.
I've been several voyages in the merchant service, and I think that-" "Merchant service be damned.
Talk not that lingo to me.
Dost see that leg?-I'll take that leg away from thy stern, if ever thou talkest of the marchant service to me again.
I suppose now ye feel considerable proud of having served in those marchant ships.
I want to know that before I think of shipping ye." "Well, sir, I want to see what whaling is.
I want to see the world." "Want to see what whaling is, eh?
Have ye clapped eye on Captain Ahab?" "Who is Captain Ahab, sir?" "Aye, aye, I thought so.
Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship." "I am mistaken then.
I thought I was speaking to the Captain himself." "Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg-that's who ye are speaking to, young man.
It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage, and supplied with all her needs, including crew.
We are part owners and agents.
But as I was going to say, if thou wantest to know what whaling is, as thou tellest ye do, I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it, past backing out.
Clap eye on Captain Ahab, young man, and thou wilt find that he has only one leg." "What do you mean, sir?
Was the other one lost by a whale?" "Lost by a whale!
Mind what I said about the marchant service-don't aggravate me-I won't have it.
But let us understand each other.
I have given thee a hint about what whaling is; do ye yet feel inclined for it?" "I do, sir." "Very good.
Now, art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live whale's throat, and then jump after it?
Answer, quick!" "I am, sir, if it should be positively indispensable to do so; not to be got rid of, that is; which I don't take to be the fact." "Good again.
Now then, thou not only wantest to go a-whaling, to find out by experience what whaling is, but ye also want to go in order to see the world?
Was not that what ye said?
Do ye wish to go round Cape Horn to see any more of it, eh?
Seeing me so determined, he expressed his willingness to ship me. "And thou mayest as well sign the papers right off," he added-"come along with ye.
And so saying, he led the way below deck into the cabin. Seated on the transom was what seemed to me a most uncommon and surprising figure.
For some of these same Quakers are the most sanguinary of all sailors and whale-hunters.
Nor will it at all detract from him, dramatically regarded, if either by birth or other circumstances, he have what seems a half wilful overruling morbidness at the bottom of his nature.
For all men tragically great are made so through a certain morbidness.
Still, for all this immutableness, was there some lack of common consistency about worthy Captain Bildad.
They told me in Nantucket, though it certainly seems a curious story, that when he sailed the old Categut whaleman, his crew, upon arriving home, were mostly all carried ashore to the hospital, sore exhausted and worn out.
Indolence and idleness perished from before him.
His own person was the exact embodiment of his utilitarian character.
The space between the decks was small; and there, bolt-upright, sat old Bildad, who always sat so, and never leaned, and this to save his coat tails.
Ye have been studying those Scriptures, now, for the last thirty years, to my certain knowledge.
But I said nothing, only looking round me sharply.
Peleg now threw open a chest, and drawing forth the ship's articles, placed pen and ink before him, and seated himself at a little table.
I began to think it was high time to settle with myself at what terms I would be willing to engage for the voyage.
But I am one of those that never take on about princely fortunes, and am quite content if the world is ready to board and lodge me, while I am putting up at this grim sign of the Thunder Cloud.
Well, old Bildad, you are determined that I, for one, shall not _lay_ up many _lays_ here below, where moth and rust do corrupt.
The seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay, Captain Peleg." "Thou Bildad!" roared Peleg, starting up and clattering about the cabin.
It's an all-fired outrage to tell any human creature that he's bound to hell.
Bildad, say that again to me, and start my soul-bolts, but I'll-I'll-yes, I'll swallow a live goat with all his hair and horns on.
But to my astonishment, he sat down again on the transom very quietly, and seemed to have not the slightest intention of withdrawing.
He seemed quite used to impenitent Peleg and his ways.
As for Peleg, after letting off his rage as he had, there seemed no more left in him, and he, too, sat down like a lamb, though he twitched a little as if still nervously agitated.
Whew!" he whistled at last-"the squall's gone off to leeward, I think.
Bildad, thou used to be good at sharpening a lance, mend that pen, will ye.
My jack-knife here needs the grindstone.
That's he; thank ye, Bildad.
Now then, my young man, Ishmael's thy name, didn't ye say?
Well then, down ye go here, Ishmael, for the three hundredth lay." "Captain Peleg," said I, "I have a friend with me who wants to ship too-shall I bring him down to-morrow?" "To be sure," said Peleg.
Fetch him along, and we'll look at him." "What lay does he want?" groaned Bildad, glancing up from the book in which he had again been burying himself. "Oh! never thee mind about that, Bildad," said Peleg.
However, it is always as well to have a look at him before irrevocably committing yourself into his hands.
Turning back I accosted Captain Peleg, inquiring where Captain Ahab was to be found. "And what dost thou want of Captain Ahab?
It's all right enough; thou art shipped." "Yes, but I should like to see him." "But I don't think thou wilt be able to at present.
I don't know exactly what's the matter with him; but he keeps close inside the house; a sort of sick, and yet he don't look so.
In fact, he ain't sick; but no, he isn't well either.
Any how, young man, he won't always see me, so I don't suppose he will thee.
He's a queer man, Captain Ahab-so some think-but a good one.
Oh, thou'lt like him well enough; no fear, no fear.
He's a grand, ungodly, god-like man, Captain Ahab; doesn't speak much; but, when he does speak, then you may well listen.
Mark ye, be forewarned; Ahab's above the common; Ahab's been in colleges, as well as 'mong the cannibals; been used to deeper wonders than the waves; fixed his fiery lance in mightier, stranger foes than whales.
His lance! aye, the keenest and the surest that out of all our isle!
Oh! he ain't Captain Bildad; no, and he ain't Captain Peleg; _he's Ahab_, boy; and Ahab of old, thou knowest, was a crowned king!" "And a very vile one.
When that wicked king was slain, the dogs, did they not lick his blood?" "Come hither to me-hither, hither," said Peleg, with a significance in his eye that almost startled me.
Look ye, lad; never say that on board the Pequod.
Captain Ahab did not name himself.
Twas a foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed mother, who died when he was only a twelvemonth old.
And yet the old squaw Tistig, at Gay-head, said that the name would somehow prove prophetic. And, perhaps, other fools like her may tell thee the same.
I wish to warn thee.
I know Captain Ahab well; I've sailed with him as mate years ago; I know what he is-a good man-not a pious, good man, like Bildad, but a swearing good man-something like me-only there's a good deal more of him.
I know, too, that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale, he's been a kind of moody-desperate moody, and savage sometimes; but that will all pass off.
And once for all, let me tell thee and assure thee, young man, it's better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one.
So good-bye to thee-and wrong not Captain Ahab, because he happens to have a wicked name.
Besides, my boy, he has a wife-not three voyages wedded-a sweet, resigned girl.
Think of that; by that sweet girl that old man has a child: hold ye then there can be any utter, hopeless harm in Ahab?
And somehow, at the time, I felt a sympathy and a sorrow for him, but for I don't know what, unless it was the cruel loss of his leg.
And yet I also felt a strange awe of him; but that sort of awe, which I cannot at all describe, was not exactly awe; I do not know what it was.
There was Queequeg, now, certainly entertaining the most absurd notions about Yojo and his Ramadan;-but what of that?
Queequeg thought he knew what he was about, I suppose; he seemed to be content; and there let him rest.
I tried to open it, but it was fastened inside. "Queequeg," said I softly through the key-hole:-all silent.
I say, Queequeg! why don't you speak?
But all remained still as before.
I began to grow alarmed.
I had allowed him such abundant time; I thought he might have had an apoplectic fit.
I looked through the key-hole; but the door opening into an odd corner of the room, the key-hole prospect was but a crooked and sinister one.
I could only see part of the foot-board of the bed and a line of the wall, but nothing more.
I was surprised to behold resting against the wall the wooden shaft of Queequeg's harpoon, which the landlady the evening previous had taken from him, before our mounting to the chamber.
That's strange, thought I; but at any rate, since the harpoon stands yonder, and he seldom or never goes abroad without it, therefore he must be inside here, and no possible mistake. "Queequeg!-Queequeg!"-all still.
Something must have happened. Apoplexy!
I tried to burst open the door; but it stubbornly resisted. Running down stairs, I quickly stated my suspicions to the first person I met-the chambermaid.
La!" she cried, "I thought something must be the matter.
I went to make the bed after breakfast, and the door was locked; and not a mouse to be heard; and it's been just so silent ever since.
But I thought, may be, you had both gone off and locked your baggage in for safe keeping.
What's the matter with you?
What's the matter with you, shipmate?" In as calm, but rapid a manner as possible, I gave her to understand the whole case.
Unconsciously clapping the vinegar-cruet to one side of her nose, she ruminated for an instant; then exclaimed-"No!
I haven't seen it since I put it there.
Running to a little closet under the landing of the stairs, she glanced in, and returning, told me that Queequeg's harpoon was missing.
He's killed himself," she cried.
It's unfort'nate Stiggs done over again-there goes another counterpane-God pity his poor mother!-it will be the ruin of my house.
Has the poor lad a sister?
Where's that girl?-there, Betty, go to Snarles the Painter, and tell him to paint me a sign, with-'no suicides permitted here, and no smoking in the parlor;'-might as well kill both birds at once.
Kill? The Lord be merciful to his ghost!
You, young man, avast there!" And running up after me, she caught me as I was again trying to force open the door. "I won't allow it; I won't have my premises spoiled.
Go for the locksmith, there's one about a mile from here.
But avast!" putting her hand in her side-pocket, "here's a key that'll fit, I guess; let's see.
And with that, she turned it in the lock; but, alas!
It must be so; yes, it's part of his creed, I suppose; well, then, let him rest; he'll get up sooner or later, no doubt.
It can't last for ever, thank God, and his Ramadan only comes once a year; and I don't believe it's very punctual then. I went down to supper.
But no; there he was just where I had left him; he had not stirred an inch.
You'll starve; you'll kill yourself, Queequeg.
But not a word did he reply. Despairing of him, therefore, I determined to go to bed and to sleep; and no doubt, before a great while, he would follow me.
But previous to turning in, I took my heavy bearskin jacket, and threw it over him, as it promised to be a very cold night; and he had nothing but his ordinary round jacket on.
For some time, do all I would, I could not get into the faintest doze.
I had blown out the candle; and the mere thought of Queequeg-not four feet off-sitting there in that uneasy position, stark alone in the cold and dark; this made me really wretched.
Queequeg," said I, "get into bed now, and lie and listen to me.
I told him, too, that he being in other things such an extremely sensible and sagacious savage, it pained me, very badly pained me, to see him now so deplorably foolish about this ridiculous Ramadan of his.
Besides, argued I, fasting makes the body cave in; hence the spirit caves in; and all thoughts born of a fast must necessarily be half-starved.
He must show that he's converted. Son of darkness," he added, turning to Queequeg, "art thou at present in communion with any christian church?" "Why," said I, "he's a member of the first Congregational Church.
He is a deacon himself, Queequeg is." "Young man," said Bildad sternly, "thou art skylarking with me-explain thyself, thou young Hittite.
What church dost thee mean? answer me." Finding myself thus hard pushed, I replied.
Deacon Deuteronomy-why Father Mapple himself couldn't beat it, and he's reckoned something.
Come aboard, come aboard; never mind about the papers.
I say, tell Quohog there-what's that you call him? tell Quohog to step along.
By the great anchor, what a harpoon he's got there! looks like good stuff that; and he handles it about right.
Quick, I say, you Bildad, and get the ship's papers.
We must have Hedgehog there, I mean Quohog, in one of our boats.
Pious harpooneers never make good voyagers-it takes the shark out of 'em; no harpooneer is worth a straw who aint pretty sharkish.
There was young Nat Swaine, once the bravest boat-header out of all Nantucket and the Vineyard; he joined the meeting, and never came to good.
He got so frightened about his plaguy soul, that he shrinked and sheered away from whales, for fear of after-claps, in case he got stove and went to Davy Jones." "Peleg!
Peleg!" said Bildad, lifting his eyes and hands, "thou thyself, as I myself, hast seen many a perilous time; thou knowest, Peleg, what it is to have the fear of death; how, then, can'st thou prate in this ungodly guise.
Thou beliest thine own heart, Peleg.
When every moment we thought the ship would sink! Death and the Judgment then?
With all three masts making such an everlasting thundering against the side; and every sea breaking over us, fore and aft.
Think of Death and the Judgment then?
No! no time to think about Death then.
There he stood, very quietly overlooking some sail-makers who were mending a top-sail in the waist.
He was but shabbily apparelled in faded jacket and patched trowsers; a rag of a black handkerchief investing his neck.
No matter though, I know many chaps that hav'n't got any,-good luck to 'em; and they are all the better off for it.
Ye hav'n't seen him yet, have ye?" "No, we hav'n't.
He's sick they say, but is getting better, and will be all right again before long." "All right again before long!" laughed the stranger, with a solemnly derisive sort of laugh.
Look ye; when captain Ahab is all right, then this left arm of mine will be all right; not before." "What do you know about him?" "What did they _tell_ you about him?
Say that!" "They didn't tell much of anything about him; only I've heard that he's a good whale-hunter, and a good captain to his crew." "That's true, that's true-yes, both true enough.
But you must jump when he gives an order.
Step and growl; growl and go-that's the word with Captain Ahab.
Nothing about the silver calabash he spat into?
And nothing about his losing his leg last voyage, according to the prophecy.
Didn't ye hear a word about them matters and something more, eh?
No, I don't think ye did; how could ye?
Not all Nantucket, I guess.
But hows'ever, mayhap, ye've heard tell about the leg, and how he lost it; aye, ye have heard of that, I dare say.
Names down on the papers?
Well, well, what's signed, is signed; and what's to be, will be; and then again, perhaps it wont be, after all.
Any how, it's all fixed and arranged a'ready; and some sailors or other must go with him, I suppose; as well these as any other men, God pity 'em!
Morning to ye, shipmates, morning!
Oh! when ye get there, tell 'em I've concluded not to make one of 'em." "Ah, my dear fellow, you can't fool us that way-you can't fool us.
It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him." "Morning to ye, shipmates, morning." "Morning it is," said I.
Come along, Queequeg, let's leave this crazy man.
But we had not gone perhaps above a hundred yards, when chancing to turn a corner, and looking back as I did so, who should be seen but Elijah following us, though at a distance.
Somehow, the sight of him struck me so, that I said nothing to Queequeg of his being behind, but passed on with my comrade, anxious to see whether the stranger would turn the same corner that we did.
He did; and then it seemed to me that he was dogging us, but with what intent I could not for the life of me imagine.
But Elijah passed on, without seeming to notice us.
So Queequeg and I got down our traps, resolving, however, to sleep ashore till the last.
But it seems they always give very long notice in these cases, and the ship did not sail for several days.
Just so with whaling, which necessitates a three-years' housekeeping upon the wide ocean, far from all grocers, costermongers, doctors, bakers, and bankers.
And though this also holds true of merchant vessels, yet not by any means to the same extent as with whalemen.
Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward.
As for Bildad, he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed, and at every fresh arrival, down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper.
To these questions they would answer, that he was getting better and better, and was expected aboard every day; meantime, the two Captains, Peleg and Bildad, could attend to everything necessary to fit the vessel for the voyage.
But when a man suspects any wrong, it sometimes happens that if he be already involved in the matter, he insensibly strives to cover up his suspicions even from himself.
And much this way it was with me.
I said nothing, and tried to think nothing. At last it was given out that some time next day the ship would certainly sail.
It was Elijah. "Going aboard?" "Hands off, will you," said I. "Lookee here," said Queequeg, shaking himself, "go 'way!" "Aint going aboard, then?" "Yes, we are," said I, "but what business is that of yours?
We are going to the Indian and Pacific Oceans, and would prefer not to be detained." "Ye be, be ye?
I was going to warn ye against-but never mind, never mind-it's all one, all in the family too;-sharp frost this morning, ain't it?
Shan't see ye again very soon, I guess; unless it's before the Grand Jury.
And with these cracked words he finally departed, leaving me, for the moment, in no small wonderment at his frantic impudence. At last, stepping on board the Pequod, we found everything in profound quiet, not a soul moving.
The cabin entrance was locked within; the hatches were all on, and lumbered with coils of rigging.
Going forward to the forecastle, we found the slide of the scuttle open.
Seeing a light, we went down, and found only an old rigger there, wrapped in a tattered pea-jacket.
He was thrown at whole length upon two chests, his face downwards and inclosed in his folded arms.
The profoundest slumber slept upon him. "Those sailors we saw, Queequeg, where can they have gone to?" said I, looking dubiously at the sleeper.
But I beat the thing down; and again marking the sleeper, jocularly hinted to Queequeg that perhaps we had best sit up with the body; telling him to establish himself accordingly.
He put his hand upon the sleeper's rear, as though feeling if it was soft enough; and then, without more ado, sat quietly down there. "Gracious!
Look, he'll twitch you off soon.
I wonder he don't wake." Queequeg removed himself to just beyond the head of the sleeper, and lighted his tomahawk pipe.
I sat at the feet.
We kept the pipe passing over the sleeper, from one to the other.
The strong vapor now completely filling the contracted hole, it began to tell upon him.
The Captain came aboard last night." "What Captain?-Ahab?" "Who but him indeed?" I was going to ask him some further questions concerning Ahab, when we heard a noise on deck. "Holloa!
Starbuck's astir," said the rigger.
He's a lively chief mate, that; good man, and a pious; but all alive now, I must turn to.
And so saying he went on deck, and we followed. It was now clear sunrise.
Soon the crew came on board in twos and threes; the riggers bestirred themselves; the mates were actively engaged; and several of the shore people were busy in bringing various last things on board.
Captain Ahab is all ready-just spoke to him-nothing more to be got from shore, eh? Well, call all hands, then.
Muster 'em aft here-blast 'em!" "No need of profane words, however great the hurry, Peleg," said Bildad, "but away with thee, friend Starbuck, and do our bidding." How now!
And, as for Captain Ahab, no sign of him was yet to be seen; only, they said he was in the cabin.
But then, the idea was, that his presence was by no means necessary in getting the ship under weigh, and steering her well out to sea.
Indeed, as that was not at all his proper business, but the pilot's; and as he was not yet completely recovered-so they said-therefore, Captain Ahab stayed below.
He seemed to do most of the talking and commanding, and not Bildad. "Aft here, ye sons of bachelors," he cried, as the sailors lingered at the main-mast.
Mr. Starbuck, drive 'em aft." "Strike the tent there!"-was the next order.
Blood and thunder!-jump!"-was the next command, and the crew sprang for the handspikes. Now, in getting under weigh, the station generally occupied by the pilot is the forward part of the ship.
That was my first kick. "Is that the way they heave in the marchant service?" he roared. "Spring, thou sheep-head; spring, and break thy backbone!
Why don't ye spring, I say, all of ye-spring!
Quohog! spring, thou chap with the red whiskers; spring there, Scotchcap; spring, thou green pants.
Spring, I say, all of ye, and spring your eyes out!
And so saying, he moved along the windlass, here and there using his leg very freely, while imperturbable Bildad kept leading off with his psalmody.
Thinks I, Captain Peleg must have been drinking something to-day. At last the anchor was up, the sails were set, and off we glided.
It was a short, cold Christmas; and as the short northern day merged into night, we found ourselves almost broad upon the wintry ocean, whose freezing spray cased us in ice, as in polished armor.
They were full of hope and fruition.
The stout sail-boat that had accompanied us began ranging alongside. It was curious and not unpleasing, how Peleg and Bildad were affected at this juncture, especially Captain Bildad.
Stand by to come close alongside, now!
Careful, careful!-come, Bildad, boy-say your last.
Luck to ye, Starbuck-luck to ye, Mr. Stubb-luck to ye, Mr. Flask-good-bye, and good luck to ye all-and this day three years I'll have a hot supper smoking for ye in old Nantucket.
Hurrah and away!" "God bless ye, and have ye in His holy keeping, men," murmured old Bildad, almost incoherently.
Don't stave the boats needlessly, ye harpooneers; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent. within the year.
Don't forget your prayers, either.
Mr. Starbuck, mind that cooper don't waste the spare staves.
Oh! the sail-needles are in the green locker!
Don't whale it too much a' Lord's days, men; but don't miss a fair chance either, that's rejecting Heaven's good gifts. Have an eye to the molasses tierce, Mr. Stubb; it was a little leaky, I thought.
If ye touch at the islands, Mr. Flask, beware of fornication. Good-bye, good-bye!
Don't keep that cheese too long down in the hold, Mr. Starbuck; it'll spoil.
I looked with sympathetic awe and fearfulness upon the man, who in midwinter just landed from a four years' dangerous voyage, could so unrestingly push off again for still another tempestuous term.
The land seemed scorching to his feet.
Wonderfullest things are ever the unmentionable; deep memories yield no epitaphs; this six-inch chapter is the stoneless grave of Bulkington.
Let me only say that it fared with him as with the storm-tossed ship, that miserably drives along the leeward land.
The port would fain give succor; the port is pitiful; in the port is safety, comfort, hearthstone, supper, warm blankets, friends, all that's kind to our mortalities.
But in that gale, the port, the land, is that ship's direst jeopardy; she must fly all hospitality; one touch of land, though it but graze the keel, would make her shudder through and through.
Terrors of the terrible! is all this agony so vain?
Take heart, take heart, O Bulkington!
Butchers we are, that is true.
But butchers, also, and butchers of the bloodiest badge have been all Martial Commanders whom the world invariably delights to honor.
But even granting the charge in question to be true; what disordered slippery decks of a whale-ship are comparable to the unspeakable carrion of those battle-fields from which so many soldiers return to drink in all ladies' plaudits?
Why did Louis XVI. of France, at his own personal expense, fit out whaling ships from Dunkirk, and politely invite to that town some score or two of families from our own island of Nantucket?
One way and another, it has begotten events so remarkable in themselves, and so continuously momentous in their sequential issues, that whaling may well be regarded as that Egyptian mother, who bore offspring themselves pregnant from her womb.
It would be a hopeless, endless task to catalogue all these things.
For many years past the whale-ship has been the pioneer in ferreting out the remotest and least known parts of the earth.
She has explored seas and archipelagoes which had no chart, where no Cook or Vancouver had ever sailed.
If American and European men-of-war now peacefully ride in once savage harbors, let them fire salutes to the honor and glory of the whale-ship, which originally showed them the way, and first interpreted between them and the savages.
All that is made such a flourish of in the old South Sea Voyages, those things were but the life-time commonplaces of our heroic Nantucketers.
Often, adventures which Vancouver dedicates three chapters to, these men accounted unworthy of being set down in the ship's common log.
Oh, the world! Until the whale fishery rounded Cape Horn, no commerce but colonial, scarcely any intercourse but colonial, was carried on between Europe and the long line of the opulent Spanish provinces on the Pacific coast.
After its first blunder-born discovery by a Dutchman, all other ships long shunned those shores as pestiferously barbarous; but the whale-ship touched there.
And who composed the first narrative of a whaling-voyage?
Who, but no less a prince than Alfred the Great, who, with his own royal pen, took down the words from Other, the Norwegian whale-hunter of those times!
And who pronounced our glowing eulogy in Parliament?
Who, but Edmund Burke! True enough, but then whalemen themselves are poor devils; they have no good blood in their veins. _No good blood in their veins?_ They have something better than royal blood there.
By old English statutory law, the whale is declared a "royal fish."[1] [1] See subsequent chapters for something more on this head. Oh, that's only nominal!
Cetus is a constellation in the South!
Drive down your hat in presence of the Czar, and take it off to Queequeg!
I know a man that, in his lifetime, has taken three hundred and fifty whales.
There is a saltcellar of state, so called, and there may be a caster of state.
How they use the salt, precisely-who knows?
Certain I am, however, that a king's head is solemnly oiled at his coronation, even as a head of salad.
Can it be, though, that they anoint it with a view of making its interior run well, as they anoint machinery?
Much might be ruminated here, concerning the essential dignity of this regal process, because in common life we esteem but meanly and contemptibly a fellow who anoints his hair, and palpably smells of that anointing.
In truth, a mature man who uses hair-oil, unless medicinally, that man has probably got a quoggy spot in him somewhere.
As a general rule, he can't amount to much in his totality. But the only thing to be considered here, is this-what kind of oil is used at coronations?
He was a long, earnest man, and though born on an icy coast, seemed well adapted to endure hot latitudes, his flesh being hard as twice-baked biscuit.
Transported to the Indies, his live blood would not spoil like bottled ale.
He must have been born in some time of general drought and famine, or upon one of those fast days for which his state is famous.
Only some thirty arid summers had he seen; those summers had dried up all his physical superfluousness.
But this, his thinness, so to speak, seemed no more the token of wasting anxieties and cares, than it seemed the indication of any bodily blight.
It was merely the condensation of the man.
He was by no means ill-looking; quite the contrary.
Looking into his eyes, you seemed to see there the yet lingering images of those thousand-fold perils he had calmly confronted through life.
A staid, steadfast man, whose life for the most part was a telling pantomime of action, and not a tame chapter of sounds.
Yet, for all his hardy sobriety and fortitude, there were certain qualities in him which at times affected, and in some cases seemed well nigh to overbalance all the rest.
Outward portents and inward presentiments were his.
Besides, he thought, perhaps, that in this business of whaling, courage was one of the great staple outfits of the ship, like her beef and her bread, and not to be foolishly wasted.
Wherefore he had no fancy for lowering for whales after sun-down; nor for persisting in fighting a fish that too much persisted in fighting him.
That immaculate manliness we feel within ourselves, so far within us, that it remains intact though all the outer character seem gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at the undraped spectacle of a valor-ruined man.
Nor can piety itself, at such a shameful sight, completely stifle her upbraidings against the permitting stars.
But this august dignity I treat of, is not the dignity of kings and robes, but that abounding dignity which has no robed investiture.
Thou shalt see it shining in the arm that wields a pick or drives a spike; that democratic dignity which, on all hands, radiates without end from God; Himself!
The centre and circumference of all democracy!
Thou who, in all Thy mighty, earthly marchings, ever cullest Thy selectest champions from the kingly commons; bear me out in it, O God! CHAPTER XXVII. KNIGHTS AND SQUIRES. Stubb was the second mate.
He was a native of Cape Cod; and hence, according to local usage, was called a Cape-Cod-man.
A happy-go-lucky; neither craven nor valiant; taking perils as they came with an indifferent air; and while engaged in the most imminent crisis of the chase, toiling away, calm and collected as a journeyman joiner engaged for the year.
Good-humored, easy, and careless, he presided over his whale-boat as if the most deadly encounter were but a dinner, and his crew all invited guests.
He was as particular about the comfortable arrangement of his part of the boat, as an old stage-driver is about the snugness of his box.
When close to the whale, in the very death-lock of the fight, he handled his unpitying lance coolly and off-handedly, as a whistling tinker his hammer.
He would hum over his old rigadig tunes while flank and flank with the most exasperated monster.
Long usage had, for this Stubb, converted the jaws of death into an easy chair.
What he thought of death itself, there is no telling.
For, like his nose, his short, black little pipe was one of the regular features of his face.
You would almost as soon have expected him to turn out of his bunk without his nose as without his pipe.
As a carpenter's nails are divided into wrought nails and cut nails; so mankind may be similarly divided.
Little Flask was one of the wrought ones; made to clinch tight and last long.
In that grand order of battle in which Captain Ahab would probably marshal his forces to descend on the whales, these three headsmen were as captains of companies.
In the fishery, they usually go by the generic name of Gay-Headers.
Tashtego was Stubb the second mate's squire. Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo, a gigantic, coal-black negro-savage, with a lion-like tread-an Ahasuerus to behold.
Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops, so large that the sailors called them ring-bolts, and would talk of securing the top-sail halyards to them.
In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler, lying in a lonely bay on his native coast.
There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress.
Curious to tell, this imperial negro, Ahasuerus Daggoo, was the Squire of little Flask, who looked like a chess-man beside him.
Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies, and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads.
In like manner, the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London, put in at the Shetland Islands, to receive the full complement of their crew.
Upon the passage homewards, they drop them there again.
How it is, there is no telling, but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen.
They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod, _Isolatoes_ too, I call such, not acknowledging the common continent of men, but each _Isolato_ living on a separate continent of his own.
Yet now, federated along one keel, what a set these Isolatoes were!
Black Little Pip-he never did-oh, no! he went before.
This was strangely heightened at times by the ragged Elijah's diabolical incoherences uninvitedly recurring to me, with a subtle energy I could not have before conceived of.
But poorly could I withstand them, much as in other moods I was almost ready to smile at the solemn whimsicalities of that outlandish prophet of the wharves.
But whatever it was of apprehensiveness or uneasiness-to call it so-which I felt, yet whenever I came to look about me in the ship, it seemed against all warrantry to cherish such emotions.
But it was especially the aspect of the three chief officers of the ship, the mates, which was most forcibly calculated to allay these colorless misgivings, and induce confidence and cheerfulness in every presentment of the voyage.
Three better, more likely sea-officers and men, each in his own different way, could not readily be found, and they were every one of them Americans; a Nantucketer, a Vineyarder, a Cape man.
Reality outran apprehension; Captain Ahab stood upon his quarter-deck. There seemed no sign of common bodily illness about him, nor of the recovery from any.
Threading its way out from among his grey hairs, and continuing right down one side of his tawny scorched face and neck, till it disappeared in his clothing, you saw a slender rod-like mark, lividly whitish.
Whether that mark was born with him, or whether it was the scar left by some desperate wound, no one could certainly say.
Yet, this wild hint seemed inferentially negatived, by what a grey Manxman insinuated, an old sepulchral man, who, having never before sailed out of Nantucket, had never ere this laid eye upon wild Ahab.
Nevertheless, the old sea-traditions, the immemorial credulities, popularly invested this old Manxman with preternatural powers of discernment.
It had previously come to me that this ivory leg had at sea been fashioned from the polished bone of the sperm whale's jaw.
Aye, he was dismasted off Japan," said the old Gay-Head Indian once; "but like his dismasted craft, he shipped another mast without coming home for it.
He has a quiver of 'em." I was struck with the singular posture he maintained.
There was an infinity of firmest fortitude, a determinate, unsurrenderable wilfulness, in the fixed and fearless, forward dedication of that glance.
Not a word he spoke; nor did his officers say aught to him; though by all their minutest gestures and expressions, they plainly showed the uneasy, if not painful, consciousness of being under a troubled master-eye.
The warmly cool, clear, ringing, perfumed, overflowing, redundant days, were as crystal goblets of Persian sherbet, heaped up-flaked up, with rose-water snow.
The starred and stately nights seemed haughty dames in jewelled velvets, nursing at home in lonely pride, the memory of their absent conquering Earls, the golden helmeted suns!
For sleeping man, 'twas hard to choose between such winsome days and such seducing nights.
But all the witcheries of that unwaning weather did not merely lend new spells and potencies to the outward world.
Inward they turned upon the soul, especially when the still mild hours of eve came on; then, memory shot her crystals as the clear ice most forms of noiseless twilights.
And all these subtle agencies, more and more they wrought on Ahab's texture. Old age is always wakeful; as if, the longer linked with life, the less man has to do with aught that looks like death.
Among sea-commanders, the old greybeards will oftenest leave their berths to visit the night-cloaked deck.
It was so with Ahab; only that now, of late, he seemed so much to live in the open air, that truly speaking, his visits were more to the cabin, than from the cabin to the planks.
Stubb, thou did'st not know Ahab then. "Am I a cannon-ball, Stubb," said Ahab, "that thou wouldst wad me that fashion?
But go thy ways; I had forgot.
Stop, Stubb; somehow, now, I don't well know whether to go back and strike him, or-what's that?-down here on my knees and pray for him?
Yes, that was the thought coming up in me; but it would be the first time I ever _did_ pray.
It's queer; very queer; and he's queer too; aye, take him fore and aft, he's about the queerest old man Stubb ever sailed with.
How he flashed at me!-his eyes like powder-pans! is he mad?
Anyway there's something on his mind, as sure as there must be something on a deck when it cracks.
I guess he's got what some folks ashore call a conscience; it's a kind of Tic-Dolly-row they say-worse nor a toothache.
Well, well; I don't know what it is, but the Lord keep me from catching it.
He's full of riddles; I wonder what he goes into the after hold for, every night, as Dough-Boy tells me he suspects; what's that for, I should like to know?
Who's made appointments with him in the hold?
But there's no telling, it's the old game-Here goes for a snooze.
Damn me, it's worth a fellow's while to be born into the world, if only to fall right asleep.
And now that I think of it, that's about the first thing babies do, and that's a sort of queer, too.
Damn me, but all things are queer, come to think of 'em.
But that's against my principles.
Maybe he _did_ kick me, and I didn't observe it, I was so taken all aback with his brow, somehow.
It flashed like a bleached bone.
What the devil's the matter with me?
I don't stand right on my legs.
Coming afoul of that old man has a sort of turned me wrong side out.
How could one look at Ahab then, seated on that tripod of bones, without bethinking him of the royalty it symbolized?
How now," he soliloquized at last, withdrawing the tube, "this smoking no longer soothes.
Oh, my pipe! hard must it go with me if thy charm be gone!
Here have I been unconsciously toiling, not pleasuring,-aye, and ignorantly smoking to windward all the while; to windward, and with such nervous whiffs, as if, like the dying whale, my final jets were the strongest and fullest of trouble.
What business have I with this pipe?
This thing that is meant for sereneness, to send up mild white vapors among mild white hairs, not among torn iron-grey locks like mine.
I'll smoke no more-" He tossed the still lighted pipe into the sea.
The fire hissed in the waves; the same instant the ship shot by the bubble the sinking pipe made.
With slouched hat, Ahab lurchingly paced the planks. CHAPTER XXXI. QUEEN MAB. Next morning Stubb accosted Flask. "Such a queer dream, King-Post, I never had.
You know the old man's ivory leg, well I dreamed he kicked me with it; and when I tried to kick back, upon my soul, my little man, I kicked my leg right off!
Ahab seemed a pyramid, and I, like a blazing fool, kept kicking at it.
Why,' thinks I, 'what's the row?
It's not a real leg, only a false leg.
And there's a mighty difference between a living thump and a dead thump.
That's what makes a blow from the hand, Flask, fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane.
Yes,' thinks I, 'it was only a playful cudgelling-in fact, only a whaleboning that he gave me-not a base kick.
Besides,' thinks I, 'look at it once; why, the end of it-the foot part-what a small sort of end it is; whereas, if a broad footed farmer kicked me, _there's_ a devilish broad insult.
But this insult is whittled down to a point only.
But now comes the greatest joke of the dream, Flask.
While I was battering away at the pyramid, a sort of badger-haired old merman, with a hump on his back, takes me by the shoulders, and slews me round.
What are you 'bout?' says he.
Slid! man, but I was frightened.
But, somehow, next moment I was over the fright.
What am I about?' says I at last.
And what business is that of yours, I should like to know, Mr. Humpback?
Do _you_ want a kick?
Says I, on second thoughts, 'I guess I won't kick you, old fellow.
Wise Stubb,' said he, 'wise Stubb;' and kept muttering it all the time, a sort of eating of his own gums like a chimney hag.
Seeing he wasn't going to stop saying over his 'wise Stubb, wise Stubb,' I thought I might as well fall to kicking the pyramid again.
But I had only just lifted my foot for it, when he roared out, 'Stop that kicking!
Halloa,' says I, 'what's the matter now, old fellow?
Look ye here,' says he; 'let's argue the insult.
Captain Ahab kicked ye, didn't he?
Yes, he did,' says I-'right _here_ it was.
Very good,' says he-'he used his ivory leg, didn't he?
Yes, he did,' says I.
Well then,' says he, 'wise Stubb, what have you to complain of?
Didn't he kick with right good will? it wasn't a common pitch pine leg he kicked with, was it?
No, you were kicked by a great man, and with a beautiful ivory leg, Stubb.
It's an honor; I consider it an honor.
In old England the greatest lords think it great glory to be slapped by a queen, and made garter-knights of; but, be _your_ boast, Stubb, that ye were kicked by old Ahab, and made a wise man of.
Remember what I say; _be_ kicked by him; account his kicks honors; and on no account kick back; for you can't help yourself, wise Stubb.
Don't you see that pyramid?' With that, he all of a sudden seemed somehow, in some queer fashion, to swim off into the air.
I snored; rolled over; and there I was in my hammock!
Now, what do you think of that dream, Flask?" "I don't know; it seems a sort of foolish to me, tho'." "May be; may be.
But it's made a wise man of me, Flask.
D'ye see Ahab standing there, sideways looking over the stern?
Well, the best thing you can do, Flask, is to let that old man alone; never speak to him, whatever he says.
Halloa! what's that he shouts?
Look sharp, all of ye!
There are whales hereabouts! If ye see a white one, split your lungs for him!" "What d'ye think of that now, Flask? ain't there a small drop of something queer about that, eh?
A white whale-did ye mark that, man? Look ye-there's something special in the wind.
Stand by for it, Flask. Ahab has that that's bloody on his mind.
But, mum; he comes this way." CHAPTER XXXII. CETOLOGY. Already we are boldly launched upon the deep; but soon we shall be lost in its unshored, harborless immensities.
Yet is it no easy task.
The classification of the constituents of a chaos, nothing less is here essayed.
Listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down. "No branch of Zoology is so much involved as that which is entitled Cetology," says Captain Scoresby, A.
1839. "Unfitness to pursue our research in the unfathomable waters." "Impenetrable veil covering our knowledge of the cetacea.
A field strewn with thorns.
All these incomplete indications but serve to torture us naturalists." Thus speak of the whale, the great Cuvier, and John Hunter, and Lesson, those lights of zoology and anatomy.
Nevertheless, though of real knowledge there be little, yet of books there are a plenty; and so in some small degree, with cetology, or the science of whales.
Many are the men, small and great, old and new, landsmen and seamen, who have at large or in little, written of the whale.
Ross Browne; the Author of Miriam Coffin; Olmstead; and the Rev. T.
On the separate subject of the Greenland or right-whale, he is the best existing authority.
But Scoresby knew nothing and says nothing of the great sperm whale, compared with which the Greenland whale is almost unworthy mentioning.
And here be it said, that the Greenland whale is an usurper upon the throne of the seas.
He is not even by any means the largest of the whales.
Reference to nearly all the leviathanic allusions in the great poets of past days, will satisfy you that the Greenland whale, without one rival, was to them the monarch of the seas.
But the time has at last come for a new proclamation.
Those books are Beale's and Bennett's; both in their time surgeons to English South-Sea whale-ships, and both exact and reliable men.
The original matter touching the sperm whale to be found in their volumes is necessarily small; but so far as it goes, it is of excellent quality, though mostly confined to scientific description.
As yet, however, the sperm whale, scientific or poetic, lives not complete in any literature.
As no better man advances to take this matter in hand, I hereupon offer my own poor endeavors.
I promise nothing complete; because any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that very reason infallibly be faulty.
I shall not pretend to a minute anatomical description of the various species, or-in this place at least-to much of any description.
My object here is simply to project the draught of a systematization of cetology.
I am the architect, not the builder. But it is a ponderous task; no ordinary letter-sorter in the Post-office is equal to it.
To grope down into the bottom of the sea after them; to have one's hands among the unspeakable foundations, ribs, and very pelvis of the world; this is a fearful thing.
What am I that I should essay to hook the nose of this leviathan!
The awful tauntings in Job might well appal me.
Will he (the leviathan) make a covenant with thee?
Behold the hope of him is vain!
But I have swam through libraries and sailed through oceans; I have had to do with whales with these visible hands; I am in earnest; and I will try.
In his System of Nature, A.
1776, Linnaeus declares, "I hereby separate the whales from the fish.
I submitted all this to my friends Simeon Macey and Charley Coffin, of Nantucket, both messmates of mine in a certain voyage, and they united in the opinion that the reasons set forth were altogether insufficient.
Above, Linnaeus has given you those items.
To be short, then, a whale is _a spouting fish with a horizontal tail_.
However contracted, that definition is the result of expanded meditation.
A walrus spouts much like a whale, but the walrus is not a fish, because he is amphibious.
But the last term of the definition is still more cogent, as coupled with the first.
Almost any one must have noticed that all the fish familiar to landsmen have not a flat, but a vertical, or up-and-down tail.
The FOLIO WHALE; II. the OCTAVO WHALE; III. the DUODECIMO WHALE. As the type of the FOLIO I present the _Sperm Whale_; of the OCTAVO, the _Grampus;_ of the DUODECIMO, the _Porpoise_. FOLIOS.
All his peculiarities will, in many other places, be enlarged upon.
It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do.
Philologically considered, it is absurd.
It was the idea also, that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses.
In those times, also, spermaceti was exceedingly scarce, not being used for light, but only as an ointment and medicament.
It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb.
When, as I opine, in the course of time, the true nature of spermaceti became known, its original name was still retained by the dealers; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity.
It yields the article commonly known as whalebone or baleen; and the oil specially known as "whale oil," an inferior article in commerce.
Among the fishermen, he is indiscriminately designated by all the following titles: The Whale; the Greenland Whale; the Black Whale; the Great Whale; the True Whale; the Right Whale.
There is a deal of obscurity concerning the identity of the species thus multitudinously baptized.
What then is the whale, which I include in the second species of my Folios?
It is the Great Mysticetus of the English naturalists; the Greenland Whale of the English whalemen; the Baliene Ordinaire of the French whalemen; the Growlands Walfish of the Swedes.
But they precisely agree in all their grand features; nor has there yet been presented a single determinate fact upon which to ground a radical distinction.
In the length he attains, and in his baleen, the Fin-back resembles the right whale, but is of a less portly girth, and a lighter color, approaching to olive.
His great lips present a cable-like aspect, formed by the intertwisting, slanting folds of large wrinkles.
Even if not the slightest other part of the creature be visible, this isolated fin will, at times, be seen plainly projecting from the surface.
On that Ahaz-dial the shadow often goes back.
The Fin-Back is not gregarious.
He seems a whale-hater, as some men are man-haters.
The baleen, hump, back-fin, and teeth; these are things whose peculiarities are indiscriminately dispersed among all sorts of whales, without any regard to what may be the nature of their structure in other and more essential particulars.
Thus, the sperm whale and the humpbacked whale, each has a hump; but there the similitude ceases. Then, this same humpbacked whale and the Greenland whale, each of these has baleen; but there again the similitude ceases.
And it is just the same with the other parts above mentioned.
In various sorts of whales, they form such irregular combinations; or, in the case of any one of them detached, such an irregular isolation; as utterly to defy all general methodization formed upon such a basis.
On this rock every one of the whale-naturalists has split. But it may possibly be conceived that, in the internal parts of the whale, in his anatomy-there, at least, we shall be able to hit the right classification.
Nay; what thing, for example, is there in the Greenland whale's anatomy more striking than his baleen?
Yet we have seen that by his baleen it is impossible correctly to classify the Greenland whale.
And if you descend into the bowels of the various leviathans, why there you will not find distinctions a fiftieth part as available to the systematizer as those external ones already enumerated.
To proceed. Book I. (_Folio_), CHAPTER IV. (_Hump Back_).-This whale is often seen on the northern American coast.
He has been frequently captured there, and towed into harbor.
He has a great pack on him like a peddler; or you might call him the Elephant and Castle whale.
At any rate, the popular name for him does not sufficiently distinguish him, since the sperm whale also has a hump, though a smaller one.
His oil is not very valuable.
He is the most gamesome and light-hearted of all the whales, making more gay foam and white water generally than any other of them. BOOK I. (_Folio_), CHAPTER V. (_Razor Back_).-Of this whale little is known but his name.
I have seen him at a distance off Cape Horn.
Of a retiring nature, he eludes both hunters and philosophers.
Though no coward, he has never yet shown any part of him but his back, which rises in a long sharp ridge.
I know little more of him, nor does anybody else. BOOK I. (_Folio_), CHAPTER VI.(_Sulphur Bottom_).-Another retiring gentleman, with a brimstone belly, doubtless got by scraping along the Tartarian tiles in some of his profounder divings.
He is seldom seen; at least I have never seen him except in the remoter southern seas, and then always at too great a distance to study his countenance.
He is never chased; he would run away with rope-walks of line.
Prodigies are told of him.
But possessing all the grand distinctive features of the leviathan, most naturalists have recognised him for one.
He is of moderate octavo size, varying from fifteen to twenty-five feet in length, and of corresponding dimensions round the waist.
He swims in herds; he is never regularly hunted, though his oil is considerable in quantity, and pretty good for light.
I do so now, touching the Black Fish, so called, because blackness is the rule among almost all whales.
So, call him the Hyena Whale, if you please.
His voracity is well known, and from the circumstance that the inner angles of his lips are curved upwards, he carries an everlasting Mephistophelean grin on his face.
This whale averages some sixteen or eighteen feet in length.
He is found in almost all latitudes.
He has a peculiar way of showing his dorsal hooked fin in swimming, which looks something like a Roman nose.
The creature is some sixteen feet in length, while its horn averages five feet, though some exceed ten, and even attain to fifteen feet.
Strictly speaking, this horn is but a lengthened tusk, growing out from the jaw in a line a little depressed from the horizontal.
But it is only found on the sinister side, which has an ill effect, giving its owner something analogous to the aspect of a clumsy left-handed man.
What precise purpose this ivory horn or lance answers, it would be hard to say.
It does not seem to be used like the blade of the sword-fish and bill-fish; though some sailors tell me that the Narwhale employs it for a rake in turning over the bottom of the sea for food.
Charley Coffin said it was used for an ice-piercer; for the Narwhale, rising to the surface of the Polar Sea, and finding it sheeted with ice, thrusts his horn up, and so breaks through.
But you cannot prove either of these surmises to be correct.
He is mostly found in the circumpolar seas. BOOK II. (_Octavo_), CHAPTER IV. (_Killer_).-Of this whale little is precisely known to the Nantucketer, and nothing at all to the professed naturalist.
From what I have seen of him at a distance, I should say that he was about the bigness of a grampus.
He is very savage-a sort of Feegee fish.
He sometimes takes the great Folio whales by the lip, and hangs there like a leech, till the mighty brute is worried to death. The Killer is never hunted.
I never heard what sort of oil he has. Exception might be taken to the name bestowed upon this whale, on the ground of its indistinctness.
For we are all killers, on land and on sea; Bonapartes and Sharks included. BOOK II. (_Octavo_), CHAPTER V. (_Thrasher_).-This gentleman is famous for his tail, which he uses for a ferule in thrashing his foes.
He mounts the Folio whale's back, and as he swims, he works his passage by flogging him; as some schoolmasters get along in the world by a similar process.
Still less is known of the Thrasher than of the Killer.
Both are outlaws, even in the lawless seas. Thus ends BOOK II. (_Octavo_), and begins BOOK III. (_Duodecimo_). DUODECIMOES.-These include the smaller whales.
The name is of my own bestowal; for there are more than one sort of porpoises, and something must be done to distinguish them.
They are the lads that always live before the wind.
They are accounted a lucky omen.
If you yourself can withstand three cheers at beholding these vivacious fish, then heaven help ye; the spirit of godly gamesomeness is not in ye.
A well-fed, plump Huzza Porpoise will yield you one good gallon of good oil.
But the fine and delicate fluid extracted from his jaws is exceedingly valuable.
It is in request among jewellers and watchmakers.
Sailors put it on their hones.
Porpoise meat is good eating, you know.
It may never have occurred to you that a porpoise spouts.
Indeed, his spout is so small that it is not very readily discernible.
But the next time you have a chance, watch him; and you will then see the great Sperm whale himself in miniature. BOOK III. (_Duodecimo_), CHAPTER II. (_Algerine Porpoise_).-A pirate. Very savage.
He is only found, I think, in the Pacific.
He is somewhat larger than the Huzza Porpoise, but much of the same general make. Provoke him, and he will buckle to a shark.
I have lowered for him many times, but never yet saw him captured. BOOK III. (_Duodecimo_), CHAPTER III. (_Mealy-mouthed Porpoise_).-The largest kind of Porpoise; and only found in the Pacific, so far as it is known.
He has no fins on his back (most other porpoises have), he has a lovely tail, and sentimental Indian eyes of a hazel hue.
But his mealy-mouth spoils all.
A most mean and mealy aspect!
His oil is much like that of the common porpoise. * * * * * Beyond the DUODECIMO, this system does not proceed, inasmuch as the Porpoise is the smallest of the whales.
Above, you have all the Leviathans of note.
But there are a rabble of uncertain, fugitive, half-fabulous whales, which, as an American whaleman, I know by reputation, but not personally.
I shall enumerate them by their forecastle appellations; for possibly such a list may be valuable to future investigators, who may complete what I have here but begun.
But I omit them as altogether obsolete; and can hardly help suspecting them for mere sounds, full of Leviathanism, but signifying nothing. Finally: It was stated at the outset, that this system would not be here, and at once, perfected.
You cannot but plainly see that I have kept my word.
But I now leave my cetological System standing thus unfinished, even as the great Cathedral of Cologne was left, with the crane still standing upon the top of the uncompleted tower.
For small erections may be finished by their first architects; grand ones, true ones, ever leave the copestone to posterity.
God keep me from ever completing anything.
This whole book is but a draught-nay, but the draught of a draught.
Literally this word means Fat-Cutter; usage, however, in time made it equivalent to Chief Harpooneer.
In those days, the captain's authority was restricted to the navigation and general management of the vessel: while over the whale-hunting department and all its concerns, the Specksnyder or Chief Harpooneer reigned supreme.
In the British Greenland Fishery, under the corrupted title of Specksioneer, this old Dutch official is still retained, but his former dignity is sadly abridged.
At present he ranks simply as senior Harpooneer; and as such, is but one of the captain's more inferior subalterns.
Hence, in whale-ships and merchantmen alike, the mates have their quarters with the captain; and so, too, in most of the American whalers the harpooneers are lodged in the after part of the ship.
That certain sultanism of his brain, which had otherwise in a good degree remained unmanifested; through those forms that same sultanism became incarnate in an irresistible dictatorship.
But when, as in the case of Nicholas the Czar, the ringed crown of geographical empire encircles an imperial brain; then, the plebeian herds crouch abased before the tremendous centralization.
To have been Belshazzar, King of Babylon; and to have been Belshazzar, not haughtily but courteously, therein certainly must have been some touch of mundane grandeur.
In his own proper turn, each officer waited to be served.
They were as little children before Ahab; and yet, in Ahab, there seemed not to lurk the smallest social arrogance.
With one mind, their intent eyes all fastened upon the old man's knife, as he carved the chief dish before him.
I do not suppose that for the world they would have profaned that moment with the slightest observation, even upon so neutral a topic as the weather.
What a relief it was to choking Stubb, when a rat made a sudden racket in the hold below.
And poor little Flask, he was the youngest son, and little boy of this weary family party.
His were the shinbones of the saline beef; his would have been the drumsticks.
For Flask to have presumed to help himself, this must have seemed to him tantamount to larceny in the first degree.
Had he helped himself at that table, doubtless, never more would he have been able to hold his head up in this honest world; nevertheless, strange to say, Ahab never forbade him.
And had Flask helped himself, the chances were Ahab had never so much as noticed it. Least of all, did Flask presume to help himself to butter.
Flask was the last person down at the dinner, and Flask is the first man up.
For hereby Flask's dinner was badly jammed in point of time.
Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear.
Peace and satisfaction, thought Flask, have for ever departed from my stomach.
I am an officer; but, how I wish I could fist a bit of old-fashioned beef in the forecastle, as I used to when I was before the mast.
There's the fruits of promotion now; there's the vanity of glory: there's the insanity of life!
After their departure, taking place in inverted order to their arrival, the canvas cloth was cleared, or rather was restored to some hurried order by the pallid steward.
And then the three harpooneers were bidden to the feast, they being its residuary legatees.
While their masters, the mates, seemed afraid of the sound of the hinges of their own jaws, the harpooneers chewed their food with such a relish that there was a report to it.
They dined like lords; they filled their bellies like Indian ships all day loading with spices.
Such portentous appetites had Queequeg and Tashtego, that to fill out the vacancies made by the previous repast, often the pale Dough-Boy was fain to bring on a great baron of salt-junk, seemingly quarried out of the solid ox.
And if he were not lively about it, if he did not go with a nimble hop-skip-and-jump, then Tashtego had an ungentlemanly way of accelerating him by darting a fork at his back, harpoonwise.
And once Daggoo, seized with a sudden humor, assisted Dough-Boy's memory by snatching him up bodily, and thrusting his head into a great empty wooden trencher, while Tashtego, knife in hand, began laying out the circle preliminary to scalping him.
He was naturally a very nervous, shuddering sort of little fellow, this bread-faced steward; the progeny of a bankrupt baker and a hospital nurse.
And what with the standing spectacle of the black terrific Ahab, and the periodical tumultuous visitations of these three savages, Dough-Boy's whole life was one continual lip-quiver.
But for all this, the great negro was wonderfully abstemious, not to say dainty.
It seemed hardly possible that by such comparatively small mouthfuls he could keep up the vitality diffused through so broad, baronial, and superb a person.
But, doubtless, this noble savage fed strong and drank deep of the abounding element of air; and through his dilated nostrils snuffed in the sublime life of the worlds.
Not by beef or by bread, are giants made or nourished.
But Queequeg, he had a mortal, barbaric smack of the lip in eating-an ugly sound enough-so much so, that the trembling Dough-Boy almost looked to see whether any marks of teeth lurked in his own lean arms.
And when he would hear Tashtego singing out for him to produce himself, that his bones might be picked, the simple-witted Steward all but shattered the crockery hanging round him in the pantry, by his sudden fits of the palsy.
How could he forget that in his Island days, Queequeg, for one, must certainly have been guilty of some murderous, convivial indiscretions.
Dough-Boy! hard fares the white waiter who waits upon cannibals.
Not a napkin should he carry on his arm, but a buckler.
So that, in real truth, the mates and harpooneers of the Pequod might more properly be said to have lived out of the cabin than in it.
For when they did enter it, it was something as a street-door enters a house; turning inwards for a moment, only to be turned out the next; and, as a permanent thing, residing in the open air.
Nor did they lose much hereby; in the cabin was no companionship; socially, Ahab was inaccessible.
Though nominally included in the census of Christendom, he was still an alien to it.
He lived in the world, as the last of the Grisly Bears lived in settled Missouri.
Of modern standers-of-mast-heads we have but a lifeless set; mere stone, iron, and bronze men; who, though well capable of facing out a stiff gale, are still entirely incompetent to the business of singing out upon discovering any strange sight.
In the serene weather of the tropics it is exceedingly pleasant the mast-head; nay, to a dreamy meditative man it is delightful.
There you stand, lost in the infinite series of the sea, with nothing ruffled but the waves.
The tranced ship indolently rolls; the drowsy trade winds blow; everything resolves you into languor.
Your most usual point of perch is the head of the t' gallant-mast, where you stand upon two thin parallel sticks (almost peculiar to whalemen) called the t' gallant cross-trees.
In shape, the Sleet's crow's-nest is something like a large tierce or pipe; it is open above, however, where it is furnished with a movable side-screen to keep to windward of your head in a hard gale.
Being fixed on the summit of the mast, you ascend into it through a little trap-hatch in the bottom.
Nor are these monitions at all unneeded.
For nowadays, the whale-fishery furnishes an asylum for many romantic, melancholy, and absent-minded young men, disgusted with the carking cares of earth, and seeking sentiment in tar and blubber.
But all in vain; those young Platonists have a notion that their vision is imperfect; they are short-sighted; what use, then, to strain the visual nerve?
They have left their opera-glasses at home. "Why, thou monkey," said a harpooneer to one of these lads, "we've been cruising now hard upon three years, and thou hast not raised a whale yet.
But while this sleep, this dream is on ye, move your foot or hand an inch; slip your hold at all; and your identity comes back in horror.
Over Descartian vortices you hover.
And perhaps, at mid-day, in the fairest weather, with one half-throttled shriek you drop through that transparent air into the summer sea, no more to rise for ever.
Twill soon be out." The hours wore on;-Ahab now shut up within his cabin; anon, pacing the deck, with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect. It drew near the close of day.
Look ye! d'ye see this Spanish ounce of gold?"-holding up a broad bright coin to the sun-"it is a sixteen dollar piece, men.
Aye, aye," he shouted with a terrific, loud, animal sob, like that of a heart-stricken moose; "Aye, aye! it was that accursed white whale that razeed me; made a poor pegging lubber of me for ever and a day!
Then tossing both arms, with measureless imprecations he shouted out: "Aye, aye! and I'll chase him round Good Hope, and round the Horn, and round the Norway Maelstrom, and round perdition's flames before I give him up.
And this is what ye have shipped for, men! to chase that white whale on both sides of land, and over all sides of earth, till he spouts black blood and rolls fin out.
What say ye, men, will ye splice hands on it, now?
Steward! go draw the great measure of grog.
How many barrels will thy vengeance yield thee even if thou gettest it, Captain Ahab? it will not fetch thee much in our Nantucket market." "Nantucket market!
But come closer, Starbuck; thou requirest a little lower layer.
To be enraged with a dumb thing, Captain Ahab, seems blasphemous." "Hark ye yet again,-the little lower layer.
All visible objects, man, are but as pasteboard masks.
But in each event-in the living act, the undoubted deed-there, some unknown but still reasoning thing puts forth the mouldings of its features from behind the unreasoning mask.
If man will strike, strike through the mask!
How can the prisoner reach outside except by thrusting through the wall?
To me, the white whale is that wall, shoved near to me.
Sometimes I think there's naught beyond. But 'tis enough.
He tasks me; he heaps me; I see in him outrageous strength, with an inscrutable malice sinewing it.
That inscrutable thing is chiefly what I hate; and be the white whale agent, or be the white whale principal, I will wreak that hate upon him.
Talk not to me of blasphemy, man; I'd strike the sun if it insulted me.
For could the sun do that, then could I do the other; since there is ever a sort of fair play herein, jealousy presiding over all creations.
But not my master, man, is even that fair play.
Take off thine eye! more intolerable than fiends' glarings is a doltish stare!
So, so; thou reddenest and palest; my heat has melted thee to anger-glow.
But look ye, Starbuck, what is said in heat, that thing unsays itself.
There are men from whom warm words are small indignity.
I meant not to incense thee.
Look! see yonder Turkish cheeks of spotted tawn-living, breathing pictures painted by the sun. The Pagan leopards-the unrecking and unworshipping things, that live; and seek, and give no reasons for the torrid life they feel!
The crew, man, the crew!
Are they not one and all with Ahab, in this matter of the whale?
See yonder Chilian! he snorts to think of it.
Stand up amid the general hurricane, thy one tost sapling cannot, Starbuck!
Tis but to help strike a fin; no wondrous feat for Starbuck.
What is it more? From this one poor hunt, then, the best lance out of all Nantucket, surely he will not hang back, when every foremast-hand has clutched a whetstone?
Ah! constrainings seize thee; I see! the billow lifts thee! Speak, but speak!-Aye, aye! thy silence, then, _that_ voices thee. (_Aside_) Something shot from my dilated nostrils, he has inhaled it in his lungs.
Ah, ye admonitions and warnings! why stay ye not when ye come?
But rather are ye predictions than warnings, ye shadows!
Yet not so much predictions from without, as verifications of the foregoing things within.
For with little external to constrain us, the innermost necessities in our being, these still drive us on. "The measure! the measure!" cried Ahab. Receiving the brimming pewter, and turning to the harpooneers, he ordered them to produce their weapons.
The crew alone now drink.
Round with it, round! Short draughts-long swallows, men; 'tis hot as Satan's hoof.
So, so; it goes round excellently.
It spiralizes in ye; forks out at the serpent-snapping eye.
That way it went, this way it comes.
Hand it me-here's a hollow!
Men, ye seem the years; so brimming life is gulped and gone.
Steward, refill! "Attend now, my braves.
O men, you will yet see that-Ha! boy, come back? bad pennies come not sooner. Hand it me.
Why, now, this pewter had run brimming again, wer't not thou St. Vitus' imp-away, thou ague! "Advance, ye mates!
Cross your lances full before me.
Let me touch the axis.
So saying, with extended arm, he grasped the three level, radiating lances at their crossed centre; while so doing, suddenly and nervously twitched them; meanwhile, glancing intently from Starbuck to Stubb; from Stubb to Flask.
It seemed as though, by some nameless, interior volition, he would fain have shocked into them the same fiery emotion accumulated within the Leyden jar of his own magnetic life.
The three mates quailed before his strong, sustained, and mystic aspect.
Stubb and Flask looked sideways from him; the honest eye of Starbuck fell downright. "In vain!" cried Ahab; "but, maybe, 'tis well.
For did ye three but once take the full-forced shock, then mine own electric thing, _that_ had perhaps expired from out me.
Perchance, too, it would have dropped ye dead.
Perchance ye need it not.
And now, ye mates, I do appoint ye three cup-bearers to my three pagan kinsmen there-yon three most honorable gentlemen and noblemen, my valiant harpooneers.
What, when the great Pope washes the feet of beggars, using his tiara for ewer?
Oh, my sweet cardinals! your own condescension, _that_ shall bend ye to it.
I do not order ye; ye will it.
Cant them; cant them over! know ye not the goblet end?
So, so; now, ye cup-bearers, advance.
The irons! take them; hold them while I fill!
Forthwith, slowly going from one officer to the other, he brimmed the harpoon sockets with the fiery waters from the pewter. "Now, three to three, ye stand.
Bestow them, ye who are now made parties to this indissoluble league.
Ha! Starbuck! but the deed is done!
Yon ratifying sun now waits to sit upon it.
Drink, ye harpooneers! drink and swear, ye men that man the deathful whaleboat's bow-Death to Moby Dick!
God hunt us all, if we do not hunt Moby Dick to his death!
The long, barbed steel goblets were lifted; and to cries and maledictions against the white whale, the spirits were simultaneously quaffed down with a hiss.
Starbuck paled, and turned, and shivered.
The envious billows sidelong swell to whelm my track; let them; but first I pass. Yonder, by the ever-brimming goblet's rim, the warm waves blush like wine.
The gold brow plumbs the blue.
The diver sun-slow dived from noon,-goes down; my soul mounts up! she wearies with her endless hill.
Is, then, the crown too heavy that I wear?
This Iron Crown of Lombardy.
Yet is it bright with many a gem; I, the wearer, see not its far flashings; but darkly feel that I wear that, that dazzlingly confounds.
Tis iron-that I know-not gold.
Tis split, too-that I feel; the jagged edge galls me so, my brain seems to beat against the solid metal; aye, steel skull, mine; the sort that needs no helmet in the most brain-battering fight! Dry heat upon my brow?
Oh! time was, when as the sunrise nobly spurred me, so the sunset soothed.
This lovely light, it lights not me; all loveliness is anguish to me, since I can ne'er enjoy.
Gifted with the high perception, I lack the low, enjoying power; damned, most subtly and most malignantly! damned in the midst of Paradise!
Good night-good night! (_waving his hand, he moves from the window._) 'Twas not so hard a task.
I thought to find one stubborn, at the least; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels, and they revolve.
Or, if you will, like so many ant-hills of powder, they all stand before me; and I their match.
Oh, hard! that to fire others, the match itself must needs be wasting!
What I've dared, I've willed; and what I've willed, I'll do!
They think me mad-Starbuck does; but I'm demoniac, I am madness maddened!
That wild madness that's only calm to comprehend itself!
The prophecy was that I should be dismembered; and-Aye!
I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer.
Now, then, be the prophet and the fulfiller one.
That's more than ye, ye great gods, ever were.
Come forth from behind your cotton bags! I have no long gun to reach ye.
Come, Ahab's compliments to ye; come and see if ye can swerve me.
Swerve me? ye cannot swerve me, else ye swerve yourselves! man has ye there.
The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails, whereon my soul is grooved to run. Over unsounded gorges, through the rifled hearts of mountains, under torrents' beds, unerringly I rush!
But he drilled deep down, and blasted all my reason out of me!
I think I see his impious end; but feel that I must help him to it.
Will I, nill I, the ineffable thing has tied me to him; tows me with a cable I have no knife to cut.
Who's over him, he cries;-aye, he would be a democrat to all above; look, how he lords it over all below! Oh!
I plainly see my miserable office,-to obey, rebelling; and worse yet, to hate with touch of pity!
For in his eyes I read some lurid woe would shrivel me up, had I it.
Time and tide flow wide.
The hated whale has the round watery world to swim in, as the small gold-fish has its glassy globe.
His heaven-insulting purpose, God may wedge aside.
I would up heart, were it not like lead.
Whelped somewhere by the sharkish sea.
The white whale is their demigorgon.
Hark! the infernal orgies! that revelry is forward! mark the unfaltering silence aft!
The long howl thrills me through!
Peace! ye revellers, and set the watch!
Because a laugh's the wisest, easiest answer to all that's queer; and come what will, one comfort's always left-that unfailing comfort is, it's all predestinated.
I heard not all his talk with Starbuck; but to my poor eye Starbuck then looked something as I the other evening felt.
Be sure the old Mogul has fixed him, too.
I twigged it, knew it; had had the gift, might readily have prophesied it-for when I clapped my eye upon his skull I saw it.
Well, Stubb, _wise_ Stubb-that's my title-well, Stubb, what of it, Stubb?
I know not all that may be coming, but be it what it will, I'll go to it laughing.
Such a waggish leering as lurks in all your horribles!
What's my juicy little pear at home doing now?
Crying its eyes out?-Giving a party to the last arrived harpooneers, I dare say, gay as a frigate's pennant, and so am I-fa, la! lirra, skirra!
Oh- We'll drink to-night with hearts as light, To love, as gay and fleeting As bubbles that swim, on the beaker's brim, And break on the lips while meeting. A brave stave that-who calls?
Eight bells there! d'ye hear, bell-boy?
Strike the bell eight, thou Pip! thou blackling! and let me call the watch.
I've the sort of mouth for that-the hogshead mouth.
So, so, (_thrusts his head down the scuttle_,) Star-bo-l-e-e-n-s, a-h-o-y!
Tumble up! DUTCH SAILOR. Grand snoozing to-night, maty; fat night for that.
I mark this in our old Mogul's wine; it's quite as deadening to some as filliping to others.
We sing; they sleep-aye, lie down there, like ground-tier butts.
There, take this copper-pump, and hail 'em through it.
Tell 'em to avast dreaming of their lasses.
Tell 'em it's the resurrection; they must kiss their last, and come to judgment.
That's the way-_that's_ it; thy throat ain't spoiled with eating Amsterdam butter. FRENCH SAILOR. Hist, boys! let's have a jig or two before we ride to anchor in Blanket Bay.
There comes the other watch.
Pip! little Pip! hurrah with your tambourine! PIP. (_Sulky and sleepy._) Don't know where it is. FRENCH SAILOR. Beat thy belly, then, and wag thy ears.
Jig it, men, I say; merry's the word; hurrah!
Damn me, won't you dance?
Form, now, Indian-file, and gallop into the double-shuffle?
Legs! legs! ICELAND SAILOR. I don't like your floor, maty; it's too springy to my taste.
I'm sorry to throw cold water on the subject; but excuse me. MALTESE SAILOR. Me too; where's your girls?
Who but a fool would take his left hand by his right, and say to himself, how d'ye do?
I must have partners! SICILIAN SAILOR. Aye; girls and a green!-then I'll hop with ye; yea, turn grasshopper! LONG-ISLAND SAILOR. Well, well, ye sulkies, there's plenty more of us.
Hoe corn when you may, say I.
All legs go to harvest soon.
Ah! here comes the music; now for it! AZORE SAILOR. (_Ascending, and pitching the tambourine up the scuttle._) Here you are, Pip; and there's the windlass-bitts; up you mount!
Now, boys! (_The half of them dance to the tambourine; some go below; some sleep or lie among the coils of rigging.
Oaths a-plenty._) AZORE SAILOR. (_Dancing._) Go it, Pip!
Rig it, dig it, stig it, quig it, bell-boy!
Make fire-flies; break the jinglers! PIP. Jinglers, you say?-there goes another, dropped off; I pound it so. CHINA SAILOR. Rattle thy teeth, then, and pound away; make a pagoda of thyself. FRENCH SAILOR. Merry-mad!
Hold up thy hoop, Pip, till I jump through it!
Split jibs! tear yourselves! TASHTEGO. (_Quietly smoking._) That's a white man; he calls that fun: humph!
I save my sweat. OLD MANX SAILOR. I wonder whether those jolly lads bethink them of what they are dancing over.
I'll dance over your grave, I will-that's the bitterest threat of your night-women, that beat head-winds round corners.
O Christ! to think of the green navies and the green-skulled crews!
Well, well; belike the whole world's a ball, as you scholars have it; and so 'tis right to make one ballroom of it.
Dance on, lads, you're young; I was once. 3D NANTUCKET SAILOR. Spell oh!-whew! this is worse than pulling after whales in a calm-give us a whiff, Tash. (_They cease dancing, and gather in clusters.
Meantime the sky darkens-the wind rises._) LASCAR SAILOR. By Brahma! boys, it'll be douse sail soon.
The sky-born, high-tide Ganges turned to wind!
Thou showest thy black brow, Seeva! MALTESE SAILOR. (_Reclining and shaking his cap._) It's the waves-the snow's caps turn to jig it now.
They'll shake their tassels soon.
Now would all the waves were women, then I'd go drown, and chassee with them evermore!
There's naught so sweet on earth-heaven may not match it!-as those swift glances of warm, wild bosoms in the dance, when the over-arboring arms hide such ripe, bursting grapes. SICILIAN SAILOR. (_Reclining._) Tell me not of it!
Hark ye, lad-fleet interlacings of the limbs-lithe swayings-coyings-flutterings! lip! heart! hip! all graze: unceasing touch and go! not taste, observe ye, else come satiety.
Eh, Pagan? (_Nudging._) TAHITAN SAILOR. (_Reclining on a mat._) Hail, holy nakedness of our dancing girls!-the Heeva-Heeva!
Ah! low veiled, high palmed Tahiti!
I still rest me on thy mat, but the soft soil has slid!
I saw thee woven in the wood, my mat! green the first day I brought ye thence; now worn and wilted quite.
Ah me!-not thou nor I can bear the change!
How then, if so be transplanted to yon sky?
Hear I the roaring streams from Pirohitee's peak of spears, when they leap down the crags and drown the villages?-The blast! the blast!
Up, spine, and meet it! (_Leaps to his feet._) PORTUGUESE SAILOR. How the sea rolls swashing 'gainst the side!
Stand by for reefing, hearties! the winds are just crossing swords, pell-mell they'll go lunging presently. DANISH SAILOR. Crack, crack, old ship! so long as thou crackest, thou holdest!
The mate there holds ye to it stiffly.
He's no more afraid than the isle fort at Cattegat, put there to fight the Baltic with storm-lashed guns, on which the sea-salt cakes! 4TH NANTUCKET SAILOR. He has his orders, mind ye that.
I heard old Ahab tell him he must always kill a squall, something as they burst a waterspout with a pistol-fire your ship right into it! ENGLISH SAILOR. Blood! but that old man's a grand old cove!
We are the lads to hunt him up his whale! ALL. Aye! aye! OLD MANX SAILOR. How the three pines shake!
Pines are the hardest sort of tree to live when shifted to any other soil, and here there's none but the crew's cursed clay.
This is the sort of weather when brave hearts snap ashore, and keeled hulls split at sea.
Our captain has his birth-mark; look yonder, boys, there's another in the sky-lurid-like, ye see, all else pitch black. DAGGOO. What of that?
Who's afraid of black's afraid of me!
I'm quarried out of it! SPANISH SAILOR. (_Aside._) He wants to bully, ah!-the old grudge makes me touchy. (_Advancing._) Aye, harpooneer, thy race is the undeniable dark side of mankind-devilish dark at that.
No offence. DAGGOO (_grimly_). None. ST. JAGO'S SAILOR. That Spaniard's mad or drunk.
But that can't be, or else in his one case our old Mogul's fire-waters are somewhat long in working. 5TH NANTUCKET SAILOR. What's that I saw-lightning?
Yes. SPANISH SAILOR. No; Daggoo showing his teeth. DAGGOO (_springing_). Swallow thine, mannikin!
White skin, white liver! SPANISH SAILOR (_meeting him_). Knife thee heartily! big frame, small spirit! ALL. A row! a row! a row! TASHTEGO (_with a whiff_). A row a'low, and a row aloft-Gods and men-both brawlers!
Humph! BELFAST SAILOR. A row! arrah a row!
The Virgin be blessed, a row!
Plunge in with ye! ENGLISH SAILOR. Fair play!
A ring, a ring! OLD MANX SAILOR. Ready formed.
In that ring Cain struck Abel. Sweet work, right work!
Why then, God, mad'st thou the ring? MATE'S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK. Hands by the halyards! in top-gallant sails!
Stand by to reef topsails! ALL. The squall! the squall! jump, my jollies! (_They scatter._) PIP (_shrinking under the windlass_). Jollies?
Crish, crash! there goes the jib-stay! Blang-whang!
Duck lower, Pip, here comes the royal yard!
It's worse than being in the whirled woods, the last day of the year!
Who'd go climbing after chestnuts now?
But there they go, all cursing, and here I don't.
Fine prospects to 'em; they're on the road to heaven. Hold on hard!
But those chaps there are worse yet-they are your white squalls, they.
White squalls? white whale, shirr! shirr!
Here have I heard all their chat just now, and the white whale-shirr! shirr!-but spoken of once! and only this evening-it makes me jingle all over like my tambourine-that anaconda of an old man swore 'em in to hunt him!
A wild, mystical, sympathetical feeling was in me; Ahab's quenchless feud seemed mine.
But not all of them knew of his existence; only a few of them, comparatively, had knowingly seen him; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him, was small indeed.
Not even at the present day has the original prestige of the Sperm Whale, as fearfully distinguished from all other species of the leviathan, died out of the minds of the whalemen as a body.
That to attempt it, would be inevitably to be torn into a quick eternity.
Nor is it to be gainsaid, that in some of these instances it has been declared that the interval of time between the two assaults could not have exceeded very many days.
Hence, by inference, it has been believed by some whalemen, that the Nor' West Passage, so long a problem to man, was never a problem to the whale.
For, it was not so much his uncommon bulk that so much distinguished him from other sperm whales, but, as was elsewhere thrown out-a peculiar snow-white wrinkled forehead, and a high, pyramidical white hump.
And then it was, that suddenly sweeping his sickle-shaped lower jaw beneath him, Moby Dick had reaped away Ahab's leg, as a mower a blade of grass in the field.
No turbaned Turk, no hired Venetian or Malay, could have smote him with more seeming malice.
The White Whale swam before him as the monomaniac incarnation of all those malicious agencies which some deep men feel eating in them, till they are left living on with half a heart and half a lung.
In a strait-jacket, he swung to the mad rockings of the gales.
Human madness is oftentimes a cunning and most feline thing. When you think it fled, it may have but become transfigured into some still subtler form.
Ahab's full lunacy subsided not, but deepeningly contracted; like the unabated Hudson, when that noble Northman flows narrowly, but unfathomably through the Highland gorge.
But, as in his narrow-flowing monomania, not one jot of Ahab's broad madness had been left behind; so in that broad madness, not one jot of his great natural intellect had perished.
That before living agent, now became the living instrument.
So with a broken throne, the great gods mock that captive king; so like a Caryatid, he patient sits, upholding on his frozen brow the piled entablatures of ages.
Wind ye down there, ye prouder, sadder souls! question that proud, sad king!
Yet without power to kill, or change, or shun the fact; he likewise knew that to mankind he did long dissemble; in some sort, did still.
And so too, all the added moodiness which always afterwards, to the very day of sailing in the Pequod on the present voyage, sat brooding on his brow.
Had any one of his old acquaintances on shore but half dreamed of what was lurking in him then, how soon would their aghast and righteous souls have wrenched the ship from such a fiendish man!
They were bent on profitable cruises, the profit to be counted down in dollars from the mint.
Such a crew, so officered, seemed specially picked and packed by some infernal fatality to help him to his monomaniac revenge.
The subterranean miner that works in us all, how can one tell whither leads his shaft by the ever shifting, muffled sound of his pick?
Who does not feel the irresistible arm drag?
What skiff in tow of a seventy-four can stand still?
It was the whiteness of the whale that above all things appalled me.
Witness the white bear of the poles, and the white shark of the tropics; what but their smooth, flaky whiteness makes them the transcendent horrors they are?
That ghastly whiteness it is which imparts such an abhorrent mildness, even more loathsome than terrific, to the dumb gloating of their aspect.
This peculiarity is most vividly hit by the French in the name they bestow upon that fish.
The Romish mass for the dead begins with "Requiem eternam" (eternal rest), whence _Requiem_ denominating the mass itself, and any other funereal music.
Not Coleridge first threw that spell; but God's great, unflattering laureate, Nature.[5] [5] I remember the first albatross I ever saw.
It was during a prolonged gale, in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas.
From my forenoon watch below, I ascended to the overclouded deck; and there, dashed upon the main hatches, I saw a regal, feathery thing of unspotted whiteness, and with a hooked, Roman bill sublime.
At intervals, it arched forth its vast archangel wings, as if to embrace some holy ark. Wondrous flutterings and throbbings shook it.
Though bodily unharmed, it uttered cries, as some king's ghost in supernatural distress.
Through its inexpressible, strange eyes, methought I peeped to secrets which took hold of God.
As Abraham before the angels, I bowed myself; the white thing was so white, its wings so wide, and in those for ever exiled waters, I had lost the miserable warping memories of traditions and of towns.
Long I gazed at that prodigy of plumage.
I cannot tell, can only hint, the things that darted through me then.
But at last I awoke; and turning, asked a sailor what bird was this.
Goney! I never had heard that name before; is it conceivable that this glorious thing is utterly unknown to men ashore! never!
But some time after, I learned that goney was some seaman's name for albatross.
So that by no possibility could Coleridge's wild Rhyme have had aught to do with those mystical impressions which were mine, when I saw that bird upon our deck.
For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew the bird to be an albatross.
Whisper it not, and I will tell; with a treacherous hook and line, as the fowl floated on the sea.
At last the Captain made a postman of it; tying a lettered, leathern tally round its neck, with the ship's time and place; and then letting it escape.
He was the elected Xerxes of vast herds of wild horses, whose pastures in those days were only fenced by the Rocky Mountains and the Alleghanies.
At their flaming head he westward trooped it like that chosen star which every evening leads on the hosts of light.
The flashing cascade of his mane, the curving comet of his tail, invested him with housings more resplendent than gold and silver-beaters could have furnished him.
It is that whiteness which invests him, a thing expressed by the name he bears.
The Albino is as well made as other men-has no substantive deformity-and yet this mere aspect of all-pervading whiteness makes him more strangely hideous than the ugliest abortion.
Why should this be so? Nor, in quite other aspects, does Nature in her least palpable but not the less malicious agencies, fail to enlist among her forces this crowning attribute of the terrible.
From its snowy aspect, the gauntleted ghost of the Southern Seas has been denominated the White Squall.
Nor, in some historic instances, has the art of human malice omitted so potent an auxiliary.
And from that pallor of the dead, we borrow the expressive hue of the shroud in which we wrap them.
To analyse it, would seem impossible.
But in a matter like this, subtlety appeals to subtlety, and without imagination no man can follow another into these halls.
For Lima has taken the white veil; and there is a higher horror in this whiteness of her woe.
Much the same is it with the backwoodsman of the West, who with comparative indifference views an unbounded prairie sheeted with driven snow, no shadow of tree or twig to break the fixed trance of whiteness.
And of all these things the Albino whale was the symbol.
Wonder ye then at the fiery hunt? CHAPTER XLIII. HARK! "Hist!
Did you hear that noise, Cabaco?" It was the middle-watch; a fair moonlight; the seamen were standing in a cordon, extending from one of the fresh-water butts in the waist, to the scuttle-butt near the taffrail.
In this manner, they passed the buckets to fill the scuttle-butt.
Standing, for the most part, on the hallowed precincts of the quarter-deck, they were careful not to speak or rustle their feet.
Pass along that return bucket." "There again-there it is!-it sounds like two or three sleepers turning over, now!" "Caramba! have done, shipmate, will ye?
It's the three soaked biscuits ye eat for supper turning over inside of ye-nothing else.
Hark ye, Cabaco, there is somebody down in the after-hold that has not yet been seen on deck; and I suspect our old Mogul knows something of it too.
Then seating himself before it, you would have seen him intently study the various lines and shadings which there met his eye; and with slow but steady pencil trace additional courses over spaces that before were blank.
Almost every night they were brought out; almost every night some pencil marks were effaced, and others were substituted.
By that circular, it appears that precisely such a chart is in course of completion; and portions of it are presented in the circular.
But not so in the reality, perhaps.
So, too, with some other feeding grounds, where he had at times revealed himself.
But all these seemed only his casual stopping-places and ocean-inns, so to speak, not his places of prolonged abode.
That particular set time and place were conjoined in the one technical phrase-the Season-on-the-Line.
For there and then, for several consecutive years, Moby Dick had been periodically descried, lingering in those waters for awhile, as the sun, in its annual round, loiters for a predicted interval in any one sign of the Zodiac.
No possible endeavor then could enable her commander to make the great passage southwards, double Cape Horn, and then running down sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the equatorial Pacific in time to cruise there.
Therefore, he must wait for the next ensuing season.
Yet the premature hour of the Pequod's sailing had, perhaps, been correctly selected by Ahab, with a view to this very complexion of things.
For the peculiar snow-white brow of Moby Dick, and his snow-white hump, could not but be unmistakable.
And have I not tallied the whale, Ahab would mutter to himself, as after poring over his charts till long after midnight he would throw himself back in reveries-tallied him, and shall he escape?
His broad fins are bored, and scalloped out like a lost sheep's ear!
And here, his mad mind would run on in a breathless race; till a weariness and faintness of pondering came over him; and in the open air of the deck he would seek to recover his strength.
Ah, God! what trances of torments does that man endure who is consumed with one unachieved revengeful desire.
Yet these, perhaps, instead of being the unsuppressable symptoms of some latent weakness, or fright at his own resolve, were but the plainest tokens of its intensity.
For, at such times, crazy Ahab, the scheming, unappeasedly steadfast hunter of the white whale; this Ahab that had gone to his hammock, was not the agent that so caused him to burst from it in horror again.
I say three years, but I am pretty sure it was more than that.
Was it not so, O Timor Tom! thou famed leviathan, scarred like an iceberg, who so long did'st lurk in the Oriental straits of that name, whose spout was oft seen from the palmy beach of Ombay?
Was it not so, O New Zealand Jack! thou terror of all cruisers that crossed their wakes in the vicinity of the Tattoo Land?
Was it not so, O Morquan!
King of Japan, whose lofty jet they say at times assumed the semblance of a snow-white cross against the sky?
For this is one of those disheartening instances where truth requires full as much bolstering as error.
No: because the mails are very irregular between here and New Guinea.
In fact, did you ever hear what might be called regular news direct or indirect from New Guinea?
One day she saw spouts, lowered her boats, and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whales.
Ere long, several of the whales were wounded; when, suddenly, a very large whale escaping from the boats, issued from the shoal, and bore directly down upon the ship.
Dashing his forehead against her hull, he so stove her in, that in less than "ten minutes" she settled down and fell over.
Not a surviving plank of her has been seen since.
After the severest exposure, part of the crew reached the land in their boats.
Conversation turning upon whales, the Commodore was pleased to be sceptical touching the amazing strength ascribed to them by the professional gentlemen present.
He peremptorily denied for example, that any whale could so smite his stout sloop-of-war as to cause her to leak so much as a thimbleful. Very good; but there is more coming.
Some weeks after, the commodore set sail in this impregnable craft for Valparaiso.
But he was stopped on the way by a portly sperm whale, that begged a few moments' confidential business with him.
That business consisted in fetching the Commodore's craft such a thwack, that with all his pumps going he made straight for the nearest port to heave down and repair.
I am not superstitious, but I consider the Commodore's interview with that whale as providential.
Was not Saul of Tarsus converted from unbelief by a similar fright?
I tell you, the sperm whale will stand no nonsense. I will now refer you to Langsdorff's Voyages for a little circumstance in point, peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof.
The weather was very clear and fine, but so intolerably cold that we were obliged to keep on our fur clothing.
We were thus placed in the most imminent danger, as this gigantic creature, setting up its back, raised the ship three feet at least out of the water.
I have the honor of being a nephew of his.
I have particularly questioned him concerning this passage in Langsdorff. He substantiates every word.
Captain Davis, who lay with his head on a gun, was thrown out of his cabin!
Lionel then goes on to impute the shock to an earthquake, and seems to substantiate the imputation by stating that a great earthquake, somewhere about that time, did actually do great mischief along the Spanish land.
In more than one instance, he has been known, not only to chase the assailing boats back to their ships, but to pursue the ship itself, and long withstand all the lances hurled at him from its decks.
As many know, he wrote the history of his own times, a work every way of uncommon value.
A fact thus set down in substantial history cannot easily be gainsaid.
Nor is there any reason it should be.
Of what precise species this sea-monster was, is not mentioned.
But as he destroyed ships, as well as for other reasons, he must have been a whale; and I am strongly inclined to think a sperm whale.
And I will tell you why.
For a long time I fancied that the sperm whale had been always unknown in the Mediterranean and the deep waters connecting with it.
Even now I am certain that those seas are not, and perhaps never can be, in the present constitution of things, a place for his habitual gregarious resort.
But further investigations have recently proved to me, that in modern times there have been isolated instances of the presence of the sperm whale in the Mediterranean.
I am told, on good authority, that on the Barbary coast, a Commodore Davis of the British navy found the skeleton of a sperm whale.
But I have every reason to believe that the food of the sperm whale-squid or cuttle-fish-lurks at the bottom of that sea, because large creatures, but by no means the largest of that sort, have been found at its surface.
Or at least if this were otherwise, there were not wanting other motives much more influential with him.
It might be that a long interval would elapse ere the White Whale was seen.
During that long interval Starbuck would ever be apt to fall into open relapses of rebellion against his captain's leadership, unless some ordinary, prudential, circumstantial influences were brought to bear upon him.
In times of strong emotion mankind disdain all base considerations; but such times are evanescent. The permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man, thought Ahab, is sordidness.
For even the high lifted and chivalric Crusaders of old times were not content to traverse two thousand miles of land to fight for their holy sepulchre, without committing burglaries, picking pockets, and gaining other pious perquisites by the way.
Had they been strictly held to their one final and romantic object-that final and romantic object, too many would have turned from in disgust.
I will not strip these men, thought Ahab, of all hopes of cash-aye, cash.
From even the barely hinted imputation of usurpation, and the possible consequences of such a suppressed impression gaining ground, Ahab must of course have been most anxious to protect himself.
There lay the fixed threads of the warp subject to but one single, ever returning, unchanging vibration, and that vibration merely enough to admit of the crosswise interblending of other threads with its own.
This warp seemed necessity; and here, thought I, with my own hand I ply my own shuttle and weave my own destiny into these unalterable threads.
High aloft in the cross-trees was that mad Gay-Header, Tashtego.
His body was reaching eagerly forward, his hand stretched out like a wand, and at brief sudden intervals he continued his cries.
And thereby whalemen distinguish this fish from other tribes of his genus. "There go flukes!" was now the cry from Tashtego; and the whales disappeared. "Quick, steward!" cried Ahab.
Time! time!" Dough-Boy hurried below, glanced at the watch, and reported the exact minute to Ahab. The ship was now kept away from the wind, and she went gently rolling before it.
Tashtego reporting that the whales had gone down heading to leeward, we confidently looked to see them again directly in advance of our bows.
One of the men selected for shipkeepers-that is, those not appointed to the boats, by this time relieved the Indian at the main-mast head.
Outside of the bulwarks their eager crews with one hand clung to the rail, while one foot was expectantly poised on the gunwale.
So look the long line of man-of-war's men about to throw themselves on board an enemy's ship. But at this critical instant a sudden exclamation was heard that took every eye from the whale.
A rumpled Chinese jacket of black cotton funereally invested him, with wide black trowsers of the same dark stuff.
But strangely crowning this ebonness was a glistening white plaited turban, the living hair braided and coiled round and round upon his head.
But with all their eyes again riveted upon the swart Fedallah and his crew, the inmates of the other boats obeyed not the command. "Captain Ahab?-" said Starbuck. "Spread yourselves," cried Ahab; "give way, all four boats.
Thou, Flask, pull out more to leeward!" "Aye, aye, sir," cheerily cried little King-Post, sweeping round his great steering oar.
Lay back!" addressing his crew. "There!-there!-there again!
There she blows right ahead, boys!-lay back!" "Never heed yonder yellow boys, Archy." "Oh, I don't mind 'em, sir," said Archy; "I knew it all before now. Didn't I hear 'em in the hold?
And didn't I tell Cabaco here of it? What say ye, Cabaco?
They are stowaways, Mr. Flask." "Pull, pull, my fine hearts-alive; pull, my children; pull, my little ones," drawlingly and soothingly sighed Stubb to his crew, some of whom still showed signs of uneasiness.
Why don't you break your backbones, my boys?
What is it you stare at?
Those chaps in yonder boat?
They are only five more hands come to help us-never mind from where-the more the merrier.
Pull, then, do pull; never mind the brimstone-devils are good fellows enough.
So, so; there you are now; that's the stroke for a thousand pounds; that's the stroke to sweep the stakes!
Hurrah for the gold cup of sperm oil, my heroes!
Three cheers, men-all hearts alive!
Easy, easy; don't be in a hurry-don't be in a hurry.
Why don't you snap your oars, you rascals?
So, so, so, then;-softly, softly!
That's it-that's it! long and strong.
Give way there, give way!
The devil fetch ye, ye ragamuffin rapscallions; ye are all asleep.
Stop snoring, ye sleepers, and pull.
Pull, will ye? pull, can't ye? pull, won't ye?
Why in the name of gudgeons and ginger-cakes don't ye pull?-pull and break something! pull, and start your eyes out!
Here!" whipping out the sharp knife from his girdle; "every mother's son of ye draw his knife, and pull with the blade between his teeth.
Now ye do something; that looks like it, my steel-bits.
Start her-start her, my silver-spoons!
Start her, marling-spikes!" Stubb's exordium to his crew is given here at large, because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general, and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing.
But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation.
Not at all; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity.
Let all your crew pull strong, come what will. (Spring, my men, spring!) There's hogsheads of sperm ahead, Mr. Stubb, and that's what ye came for. (Pull, my boys!) Sperm, sperm's the play!
This at least is duty; duty and profit hand in hand!" "Aye, aye, I thought as much," soliloquized Stubb, when the boats diverged, "as soon as I clapt eye on 'em, I thought so.
Aye, and that's what he went into the after hold for, so often, as Dough-Boy long suspected.
They were hidden down there.
The White Whale's at the bottom of it.
Well, well, so be it!
Give way, men! It ain't the White Whale to-day!
All at once the outstretched arm gave a peculiar motion and then remained fixed, while the boat's five oars were seen simultaneously peaked.
Boat and crew sat motionless on the sea.
Instantly the three spread boats in the rear paused on their way.
The whales had irregularly settled bodily down into the blue, thus giving no distantly discernible token of the movement, though from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it. "Every man look out along his oars!" cried Starbuck.
Thou, Queequeg, stand up!" Nimbly springing up on the triangular raised box in the bow, the savage stood erect there, and with intensely eager eyes gazed off towards the spot where the chase had last been descried.
It is used for catching turns with the whale line.
Its top is not more spacious than the palm of a man's hand, and standing upon such a base as that, Flask seemed perched at the mast-head of some ship which had sunk to all but her trucks.
Still more strange to see him giddily perched upon the loggerhead itself, under such circumstances.
But the sight of little Flask mounted upon gigantic Daggoo was yet more curious; for sustaining himself with a cool, indifferent, easy, unthought of, barbaric majesty, the noble negro to every roll of the sea harmoniously rolled his fine form.
On his broad back, flaxen-haired Flask seemed a snow-flake.
The bearer looked nobler than the rider. Though truly vivacious, tumultuous, ostentatious little Flask would now and then stamp with impatience; but not one added heave did he thereby give to the negro's lordly chest.
So have I seen Passion and Vanity stamping the living magnanimous earth, but the earth did not alter her tides and her seasons for that. Meanwhile Stubb, the third mate, betrayed no such far-gazing solicitudes.
He withdrew it from his hatband, where he always wore it aslant like a feather.
The air around suddenly vibrated and tingled, as it were, like the air over intensely heated plates of iron.
Beneath this atmospheric waving and curling, and partially beneath a thin layer of water, also, the whales were swimming.
Seen in advance of all the other indications, the puffs of vapor they spouted, seemed their forerunning couriers and detached flying outriders. All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air.
He did not say much to his crew, though, nor did his crew say anything to him.
Only the silence of the boat was at intervals startlingly pierced by one of his peculiar whispers, now harsh with command, now soft with entreaty. How different the loud little King-Post.
Sing out and say something, my hearties.
Roar and pull, my thunderbolts!
Beach me, beach me on their black backs, boys; only do that for me, and I'll sign over to you my Martha's Vineyard plantation, boys; including wife and children, boys.
Lay me on-lay me on!
O Lord, Lord! but I shall go stark, staring mad: See! see that white water!
Fits? yes, give him fits-that's the very word-pitch fits into 'em.
Pudding for supper, you know;-merry's the word. Pull, babes-pull, sucklings-pull, all.
But what the devil are you hurrying about?
Softly, softly, and steadily, my men.
Only pull, and keep pulling; nothing more.
Crack all your backbones, and bite your knives in two-that's all.
Only the infidel sharks in the audacious seas may give ear to such words, when, with tornado brow, and eyes of red murder, and foam-glued lips, Ahab leaped after his prey. Meanwhile, all the boats tore on.
The jets of vapor no longer blended, but tilted everywhere to right and left; the whales seemed separating their wakes. The boats were pulled more apart; Starbuck giving chase to three whales running dead to leeward.
There's white water again!-close to!
The whole crew were half suffocated as they were tossed helter-skelter into the white curdling cream of the squall.
Squall, whale, and harpoon had all blended together; and the whale, merely grazed by the iron, escaped. Though completely swamped, the boat was nearly unharmed.
Swimming round it we picked up the floating oars, and lashing them across the gunwale, tumbled back to our places.
In vain we hailed the other boats; as well roar to the live coals down the chimney of a flaming furnace as hail those boats in that storm.
Meanwhile the driving scud, rack, and mist, grew darker with the shadows of night; no sign of the ship could be seen. The rising sea forbade all attempts to bale out the boat.
There, then, he sat, holding up that imbecile candle in the heart of that almighty forlornness.
The sound came nearer and nearer; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge, vague form.
Again we swam for it, were dashed against it by the seas, and were at last taken up and safely landed on board.
Ere the squall came close to, the other boats had cut loose from their fish and returned to the ship in good time.
I suppose then, that going plump on a flying whale with your sail set in a foggy squall is the height of a whaleman's discretion?" "Certain.
I've lowered for whales from a leaking ship in a gale off Cape Horn." "Mr. Flask," said I, turning to little King-Post, who was standing close by; "you are experienced in these things, and I am not.
Will you tell me whether it is an unalterable law in this fishery, Mr. Flask, for an oarsman to break his own back pulling himself back-foremost into death's jaws?" "Can't you twist that smaller?" said Flask.
I should like to see a boat's crew backing water up to a whale face foremost.
Ha, ha! the whale would give them squint for squint, mind that!" Here then, from three impartial witnesses, I had a deliberate statement of the entire case.
This was the fourth time in my nautical life that I had done the same thing.
After the ceremony was concluded upon the present occasion, I felt all the easier; a stone was rolled away from my heart.
Besides, all the days I should now live would be as good as the days that Lazarus lived after his resurrection; a supplementary clean gain of so many months or weeks as the case might be.
FEDALLAH. "Who would have thought it, Flask!" cried Stubb; "if I had but one leg you would not catch me in a boat, unless maybe to stop the plug-hole with my timber toe.
So Tamerlane's soldiers often argued with tears in their eyes, whether that invaluable life of his ought to be carried into the thickest of the fight. But with Ahab the question assumed a modified aspect.
Therefore he had not solicited a boat's crew from them, nor had he in any way hinted his desires on that head. Nevertheless he had taken private measures of his own touching all that matter.
But almost everybody supposed that this particular preparative heedfulness in Ahab must only be with a view to the ultimate chase of Moby Dick; for he had already revealed his intention to hunt that mortal monster in person.
But such a supposition did by no means involve the remotest suspicion as to any boat's crew being assigned to that boat. Now, with the subordinate phantoms, what wonder remained soon waned away; for in a whaler wonders soon wane.
But one cannot sustain an indifferent air concerning Fedallah.
Lit up by the moon, it looked celestial; seemed some plumed and glittering god uprising from the sea.
Fedallah first descried this jet.
For of these moonlight nights, it was his wont to mount to the main-mast head, and stand a look-out there, with the same precision as if it had been day.
And yet, though herds of whales were seen by night, not one whaleman in a hundred would venture a lowering for them.
You may think with what emotions, then, the seamen beheld this old Oriental perched aloft at such unusual hours; his turban and the moon, companions in one sky.
Had the trump of judgment blown, they could not have quivered more; yet still they felt no terror; rather pleasure.
The best man in the ship must take the helm.
Then, with every mast-head manned, the piled-up craft rolled down before the wind.
And had you watched Ahab's face that night, you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring.
While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck, every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin-tap.
On life and death this old man walked.
But though the ship so swiftly sped, and though from every eye, like arrows, the eager glances shot, yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night.
And so it served us night after night, till no one heeded it but to wonder at it.
In tempestuous times like these, after everything above and aloft has been secured, nothing more can be done but passively to await the issue of the gale.
Then Captain and crew become practical fatalists.
Few or no words were spoken; and the silent ship, as if manned by painted sailors in wax, day after day tore on through all the swift madness and gladness of the demoniac waves.
By night the same muteness of humanity before the shrieks of the ocean prevailed; still in silence the men swung in the bowlines; still wordless Ahab stood up to the blast.
Even when wearied nature seemed demanding repose he would not seek that repose in his hammock.
On the table beside him lay unrolled one of those charts of tides and currents which have previously been spoken of.
His lantern swung from his tightly clenched hand.
All down her sides, this spectral appearance was traced with long channels of reddened rust, while all her spars and her rigging were like the thick branches of trees furred over with hoar-frost.
Only her lower sails were set.
A wild sight it was to see her long-bearded look-outs at those three mast-heads.
They seemed clad in the skins of beasts, so torn and bepatched the raiment that had survived nearly four years of cruising.
Meantime his ship was still increasing the distance between.
But taking advantage of his windward position, he again seized his trumpet, and knowing by her aspect that the stranger vessel was a Nantucketer and shortly bound home, he loudly hailed-"Ahoy there!
This is the Pequod, bound round the world!
Keep her off round the world!" Round the world!
There is much in that sound to inspire proud feelings; but whereto does all that circumnavigation conduct?
For, as it eventually turned out, he cared not to consort, even for five minutes, with any stranger captain, except he could contribute some of that information he so absorbingly sought.
And in return for that courtesy, the outward-bound ship would receive the latest whaling intelligence from the cruising-ground to which she may be destined, a thing of the utmost importance to her.
And in degree, all this will hold true concerning whaling vessels crossing each other's track on the cruising-ground itself, even though they are equally long absent from home.
For one of them may have received a transfer of letters from some third, and now far remote vessel; and some of those letters may be for the people of the ship she now meets.
Besides, they would exchange the whaling news, and have an agreeable chat.
Besides, the English whalers sometimes affect a kind of metropolitan superiority over the American whalers; regarding the long, lean Nantucketer, with his nondescript provincialisms, as a sort of sea-peasant.
But where this superiority in the English whalemen does really consist, it would be hard to say, seeing that the Yankees in one day, collectively, kill more whales than all the English, collectively, in ten years.
And as for Pirates, when they chance to cross each other's cross-bones, the first hail is-"How many skulls?"-the same way that whalers hail-"How many barrels?
And that question once answered, pirates straightway steer apart, for they are infernal villains on both sides, and don't like to see overmuch of each other's villanous likenesses. But look at the godly, honest, unostentatious, hospitable, sociable, free-and-easy whaler!
What does the whaler do when she meets another whaler in any sort of decent weather?
Why it is that all Merchant-seamen, and also all Pirates and Man-of-War's men, and Slave-ship sailors, cherish such a scornful feeling towards Whale-ships; this is a question it would be hard to answer.
Because, in the case of pirates, say, I should like to know whether that profession of theirs has any peculiar glory about it.
It sometimes ends in uncommon elevation, indeed; but only at the gallows.
And besides, when a man is elevated in that odd fashion, he has no proper foundation for his superior altitude.
Hence, I conclude, that in boasting himself to be high lifted above a whaleman, in that assertion the pirate has no solid basis to stand on. But what is a _Gam_?
You might wear out your index-finger running up and down the columns of dictionaries, and never find the word.
Dr. Johnson never attained to that erudition; Noah Webster's ark does not hold it.
Nevertheless, this same expressive word has now for many years been in constant use among some fifteen thousand true born Yankees. Certainly it needs a definition, and should be incorporated into the Lexicon.
With that view, let me learnedly define it. GAM.
All professions have their own little peculiarities of detail; so has the whale fishery.
But the whale-boat has no seat astern, no sofa of that sort whatever, and no tiller at all.
High times indeed, if whaling captains were wheeled about the water on castors like gouty old aldermen in patent chairs.
Nor is this any very easy matter; for in his rear is the immense projecting steering oar hitting him now and then in the small of his back, the after-oar reciprocating by rapping his knees in front.
Merely make a spread angle of two poles, and you cannot stand them up.
She was manned almost wholly by Polynesians.
In the short gam that ensued she gave us strong news of Moby Dick.
This latter circumstance, with its own particular accompaniments, forming what may be called the secret part of the tragedy about to be narrated, never reached the ears of Captain Ahab or his mates.
She was somewhere to the northward of the Line.
One morning upon handling the pumps, according to daily usage, it was observed that she made more water in her hold than common.
They supposed a sword-fish had stabbed her, gentlemen.
For in their interflowing aggregate, those grand fresh-water seas of ours,-Erie, and Ontario, and Huron, and Superior, and Michigan,-possess an ocean-like expansiveness, with many of the ocean's noblest traits; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes.
Thus, gentlemen, though an inlander, Steelkilt was wild-ocean born, and wild-ocean nurtured; as much of an audacious mariner as any.
He commanded the upper sails to be well hoisted, sheeted home anew, and every way expanded to the breeze.
Therefore when he betrayed this solicitude about the safety of the ship, some of the seamen declared that it was only on account of his being a part owner in her.
By the Lord, it's worth bottling! I tell ye what, men, old Rad's investment must go for it! he had best cut away his part of the hull and tow it home.
If old Rad were here now, I'd tell him to jump overboard and scatter 'em.
They're playing the devil with his estate, I can tell him.
But he's a simple old soul,-Rad, and a beauty too.
Boys, they say the rest of his property is invested in looking-glasses.
I wonder if he'd give a poor devil like me the model of his nose.' "'Damn your eyes! what's that pump stopping for?' roared Radney, pretending not to have heard the sailors' talk.
Thunder away at it!' "'Aye, aye, sir,' said Steelkilt, merry as a cricket.
Now what cozening fiend it was, gentlemen, that possessed Radney to meddle with such a man in that corporeally exasperated state, I know not; but so it happened.
Such, gentlemen, is the inflexibility of sea-usages and the instinctive love of neatness in seamen; some of whom would not willingly drown without first washing their faces.
But in all vessels this broom business is the prescriptive province of the boys, if boys there be aboard.
Any man who has gone sailor in a whale-ship will understand this; and all this and doubtless much more, the Lakeman fully comprehended when the mate uttered his command.
And then, without at all alluding to the shovel, he pointed to three lads as the customary sweepers; who, not being billeted at the pumps, had done little or nothing all day.
Seeing, however, that his forbearance had not the slightest effect, by an awful and unspeakable intimation with his twisted hand he warned off the foolish and infatuated man; but it was to no purpose.
Take that hammer away, or look to yourself.
But, gentlemen, the fool had been branded for the slaughter by the gods.
They were both Canallers. "'Canallers!' cried Don Pedro.
We have seen many whale-ships in our harbors, but never heard of your Canallers.
Well then, Don, refill my cup.
Pardon!' cried another of the company.
In the name of all us Limeese, I but desire to express to you, sir sailor, that we have by no means overlooked your delicacy in not substituting present Lima for distant Venice in your corrupt comparison.
Oh! do not bow and look surprised; you know the proverb all along this coast-"Corrupt as Lima.
It but bears out your saying, too; churches more plentiful than billiard-tables, and for ever open-and "Corrupt as Lima.
So, too, Venice; I have been there; the holy city of the blessed evangelist, St. Mark!-St. Dominic, purge it!
Thanks: here I refill; now, you pour out again.' "Freely depicted in his own vocation, gentlemen, the Canaller would make a fine dramatic hero, so abundantly and picturesquely wicked is he.
Like Mark Antony, for days and days along his green-turfed, flowery Nile, he indolently floats, openly toying with his red-cheeked Cleopatra, ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck.
But ashore, all this effeminacy is dashed.
The brigandish guise which the Canaller so proudly sports; his slouched and gaily-ribboned hat betoken his grand features.
A terror to the smiling innocence of the villages through which he floats; his swart visage and bold swagger are not unshunned in cities.
I see!' impetuously exclaimed Don Pedro, spilling his chicha upon his silvery ruffles.
I had thought, now, that at your temperate North the generations were cold and holy as the hills.-But the story.' "I left off, gentlemen, where the Lakeman shook the back-stay.
Hardly had he done so, when he was surrounded by the three junior mates and the four harpooneers, who all crowded him to the deck.
At intervals, he ran close up to the revolving border of the confusion, and prying into the heart of it with his pike, sought to prick out the object of his resentment.
Do you want to sink the ship, by knocking off at a time like this?
Turn to!' and he once more raised a pistol. "'Sink the ship?' cried Steelkilt.
Not a man of us turns to, unless you swear not to raise a rope-yarn against us. What say ye, men?' turning to his comrades.
Captain, by God, look to yourself; say the word; don't be a fool; forget it all; we are ready to turn to; treat us decently, and we're your men; but we won't be flogged.' "'Turn to!
Down ye go.' "'Shall we?' cried the ringleader to his men.
Water was then lowered down to them, and a couple of handfuls of biscuit were tossed after it; when again turning the key upon them and pocketing it, the Captain returned to the quarter-deck.
The fetid closeness of the air, and a famishing diet, united perhaps to some fears of ultimate retribution, had constrained them to surrender at discretion.
Emboldened by this, the Captain reiterated his demand to the rest, but Steelkilt shouted up to him a terrific hint to stop his babbling and betake himself where he belonged.
On the fifth morning three others of the mutineers bolted up into the air from the desperate arms below that sought to restrain them.
For himself, he would do this, he said, whether they joined him or not. That was the last night he should spend in that den.
But the scheme met with no opposition on the part of the other two; they swore they were ready for that, or for any other mad thing, for anything in short but a surrender.
And what was more, they each insisted upon being the first man on deck, when the time to make the rush should come.
But all these were collared, and dragged along the deck like dead cattle; and, side by side, were seized up into the mizen rigging, like three quarters of meat, and there they hung till morning.
Ever since the blow, he had lain in his berth; but that morning, hearing the tumult on the deck, he had crept out, and thus far had watched the whole scene.
The mate was in the very act of striking, when another hiss stayed his uplifted arm.
He paused: and then pausing no more, made good his word, spite of Steelkilt's threat, whatever that might have been.
Still, no sign of mutiny reappeared among the rest.
On the contrary, it seemed, that mainly at Steelkilt's instigation, they had resolved to maintain the strictest peacefulness, obey all orders to the last, and, when the ship reached port, desert her in a body.
But in order to insure the speediest end to the voyage, they all agreed to another thing-namely, not to sing out for whales, in case any should be discovered.
There was a considerable vacancy between the boat and the ship, and down between this was the sea.
Steelkilt calculated his time, and found that his next trick at the helm would come round at two o'clock, in the morning of the third day from that in which he had been betrayed.
Do you think he won't do me a turn, when it's to help himself in the end, shipmate?' and going to the mate, he looked at him quietly, and asked him for some twine to mend his hammock.
Yet complete revenge he had, and without being the avenger.
It was Moby Dick. "'Moby Dick!' cried Don Sebastian; 'St. Dominic!
Sir sailor, but do whales have christenings?
Whom call you Moby Dick?' "'A very white, and famous, and most deadly immortal monster, Don;-but that would be too long a story.' "'How? how?' cried all the young Spaniards, crowding. "'Nay, Dons, Dons-nay, nay!
I cannot rehearse that now.
Gentlemen, a strange fatality pervades the whole career of these events, as if verily mapped out before the world itself was charted.
Moreover, when the four boats were lowered, the mate's got the start; and none howled more fiercely with delight than did Steelkilt, as he strained at his oar.
After a stiff pull, their harpooneer got fast, and, spear in hand, Radney sprang to the bow.
That instant, as he fell on the whale's slippery back, the boat righted, and was dashed aside by the swell, while Radney was tossed over into the sea, on the other flank of the whale.
But a sudden, terrific, downward jerking of the boat, quickly brought his knife to the line.
He cut it; and the whale was free.
But, at some distance, Moby Dick rose again, with some tatters of Radney's red woollen shirt, caught in the teeth that had destroyed him.
All four boats gave chase again; but the whale eluded them, and finally wholly disappeared. "In good time, the Town-Ho reached her port-a savage, solitary place-where no civilized creature resided.
He steered away from it; but the savage craft bore down on him; and soon the voice of Steelkilt hailed him to heave to, or he would run him under water.
The captain presented a pistol.
Let me board you a moment-I come in peace.
With that he leaped from the canoe, swam to the boat; and climbing the gunwale, stood face to face with the captain. "'Cross your arms, sir; throw back your head.
Now, repeat after me. As soon as Steelkilt leaves me, I swear to beach this boat on yonder island, and remain there six days.
If I do not, may lightnings strike me!' "'A pretty scholar,' laughed the Lakeman.
There, luck befriended him; two ships were about to sail for France, and were providentially in want of precisely that number of men which the sailor headed.
It is so passing wonderful!
Did you get it from an unquestionable source?
It may be worth while, therefore, previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman.
The Brahmins maintain that in the almost endless sculptures of that immemorial pagoda, all the trades and pursuits, every conceivable avocation of man, were prefigured ages before any of them actually came into being.
No wonder then, that in some sort our noble profession of whaling should have been there shadowed forth.
The Hindoo whale referred to, occurs in a separate department of the wall, depicting the incarnation of Vishnu in the form of leviathan, learnedly known as the Matse Avatar.
But though this sculpture is half man and half whale, so as only to give the tail of the latter, yet that small section of him is all wrong.
It is Guido's picture of Perseus rescuing Andromeda from the sea-monster or whale.
Where did Guido get the model of such a strange creature as that?
Nor does Hogarth, in painting the same scene in his own "Perseus Descending," make out one whit better. The huge corpulence of that Hogarthian monster undulates on the surface, scarcely drawing one inch of water.
It has a sort of howdah on its back, and its distended tusked mouth into which the billows are rolling, might be taken for the Traitors' Gate leading from the Thames by water into the Tower.
Then, there are the Prodromus whales of old Scotch Sibbald, and Jonah's whale, as depicted in the prints of old Bibles and the cuts of old primers.
Though universally denominated a dolphin, I nevertheless call this book-binder's fish an attempt at a whale; because it was so intended when the device was first introduced.
In old Harris's collection of voyages there are some plates of whales extracted from a Dutch book of voyages, A.
1671, entitled "A Whaling Voyage to Spitzbergen in the ship Jonas in the Whale, Peter Peterson of Friesland, master.
In one of those plates the whales, like great rafts of logs, are represented lying among ice-isles, with white bears running over their living backs.
In this book is an outline purporting to be a "Picture of a Physeter or Spermaceti whale, drawn by scale from one killed on the coast of Mexico, August, 1793, and hoisted on deck.
I doubt not the captain had this veracious picture taken for the benefit of his marines.
Ah, my gallant captain, why did ye not give us Jonah looking out of that eye! Nor are the most conscientious compilations of Natural History for the benefit of the young and tender, free from the same heinousness of mistake.
Look at that popular work "Goldsmith's Animated Nature.
In the abridged London edition of 1807, there are plates of an alleged "whale" and a "narwhale.
In 1836, he published a Natural History of Whales, in which he gives what he calls a picture of the Sperm Whale.
Before showing that picture to any Nantucketer, you had best provide for your summary retreat from Nantucket.
In a word, Frederick Cuvier's Sperm Whale is not a Sperm Whale, but a squash.
Of course, he never had the benefit of a whaling voyage (such men seldom have), but whence he derived that picture, who can tell?
Perhaps he got it as his scientific predecessor in the same field, Desmarest, got one of his authentic abortions; that is, from a Chinese drawing.
And what sort of lively lads with the pencil those Chinese are, many queer cups and saucers inform us. As for the sign-painters' whales seen in the streets hanging over the shops of oil-dealers, what shall be said of them?
Though elephants have stood for their full-lengths, the living Leviathan has never yet fairly floated himself for his portrait.
For it is one of the more curious things about this Leviathan, that his skeleton gives very little idea of his general shape.
In fact, as the great Hunter says, the mere skeleton of the whale bears the same relation to the fully invested and padded animal as the insect does to the chrysalis that so roundingly envelopes it.
This peculiarity is strikingly evinced in the head, as in some part of this book will be incidentally shown.
It is also very curiously displayed in the side fin, the bones of which almost exactly answer to the bones of the human hand, minus only the thumb.
This fin has four regular bone-fingers, the index, middle, ring, and little finger.
But all these are permanently lodged in their fleshy covering, as the human fingers in an artificial covering.
True, one portrait may hit the mark much nearer than another, but none can hit it with any very considerable degree of exactness.
So there is no earthly way of finding out precisely what the whale really looks like.
And the only mode in which you can derive even a tolerable idea of his living contour, is by going a whaling yourself; but by so doing, you run no small risk of being eternally stove and sunk by him.
But I pass that matter by. I know of only four published outlines of the great Sperm Whale; Colnett's, Huggins's, Frederick Cuvier's, and Beale's.
In the previous chapter Colnett and Cuvier have been referred to.
Huggins's is far better than theirs; but, by great odds, Beale's is the best.
All Beale's drawings of this whale are good, excepting the middle figure in the picture of three whales in various attitudes, capping his second chapter.
His frontispiece, boats attacking Sperm Whales, though no doubt calculated to excite the civil scepticism of some parlor men, is admirably correct and life-like in its general effect.
Some of the Sperm Whale drawings in J.
Ross Browne are pretty correct in contour; but they are wretchedly engraved.
That is not his fault though. Of the Right Whale, the best outline pictures are in Scoresby; but they are drawn on too small a scale to convey a desirable impression.
Respectively, they represent attacks on the Sperm and Right Whale.
The action of the whole thing is wonderfully good and true.
His jets are erect, full, and black like soot; so that from so abounding a smoke in the chimney, you would think there must be a brave supper cooking in the great bowels below.
Sea fowls are pecking at the small crabs, shell-fish, and other sea candies and maccaroni, which the Right Whale sometimes carries on his pestilent back.
But my life for it he was either practically conversant with his subject, or else marvellously tutored by some experienced whaleman.
The French are the lads for painting action.
One of them, though not precisely adapted to our present purpose, nevertheless deserves mention on other accounts.
The effect is very fine, when considered with reference to its presenting the hardy fishermen under one of their few aspects of oriental repose.
The harpoons and lances lie levelled for use; three oarsmen are just setting the mast in its hole; while from a sudden roll of the sea, the little craft stands half-erect out of the water, like a rearing horse.
There are three whales and three boats; and one of the boats (presumed to contain the missing leg in all its original integrity) is being crunched by the jaws of the foremost whale.
Any time these ten years, they tell me, has that man held up that picture, and exhibited that stump to an incredulous world.
But the time of his justification has now come.
His three whales are as good whales as were ever published in Wapping, at any rate; and his stump as unquestionable a stump as any you will find in the western clearings.
Some of them have little boxes of dentistical-looking implements, specially intended for the skrimshandering business.
Some of them are done with much accuracy. At some old gable-roofed country houses you will see brass whales hung by the tail for knockers to the road-side door.
When the porter is sleepy, the anvil-headed whale would be best.
But these knocking whales are seldom remarkable as faithful essays.
Thus at the North have I chased Leviathan round and round the Pole with the revolutions of the bright points that first defined him to me.
Seen from the mast-heads, especially when they paused and were stationary for a while, their vast black forms looked more like lifeless masses of rock than anything else.
Yea, foolish mortals, Noah's flood is not yet subsided; two thirds of the fair world it yet covers. Wherein differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is not a miracle upon the other?
Like a savage tigress that tossing in the jungle overlays her own cubs, so the sea dashes even the mightiest whales against the rocks, and leaves them there side by side with the split wrecks of ships.
No mercy, no power but its own controls it.
Consider also the devilish brilliance and beauty of many of its most remorseless tribes, as the dainty embellished shape of many species of sharks.
For as this appalling ocean surrounds the verdant land, so in the soul of man there lies one insular Tahiti, full of peace and joy, but encompassed by all the horrors of the half known life.
Thus glistening for a moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank.
Then once more arose, and silently gleamed.
It seemed not a whale; and yet is this Moby Dick? thought Daggoo.
Again the phantom went down, but on re-appearing once more, with a stiletto-like cry that startled every man from his nod, the negro yelled out-"There! there again! there she breaches! right ahead!
The White Whale, the White Whale!" Upon this, the seamen rushed to the yard-arms, as in swarming-time the bees rush to the boughs.
Soon it went down, and while, with oars suspended, we were awaiting its reappearance, lo! in the same spot where it sank, once more it slowly rose.
At times, when closely pursued, he will disgorge what are supposed to be the detached arms of the squid; some of them thus exhibited exceeding twenty and thirty feet in length.
Hemp is a dusky, dark fellow, a sort of Indian; but Manilla is as a golden-haired Circassian to behold. The whale line is only two thirds of an inch in thickness.
At first sight, you would not think it so strong as it really is.
By experiment its one and fifty yarns will each suspend a weight of one hundred and twenty pounds; so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearly equal to three tons.
In length, the common sperm whale-line measures something over two hundred fathoms.
As the least tangle or kink in the coiling would, in running out, infallibly take somebody's arm, leg, or entire body off, the utmost precaution is used in stowing the line in its tub.
First: In order to facilitate the fastening to it of an additional line from a neighboring boat, in case the stricken whale should sound so deep as to threaten to carry off the entire line originally attached to the harpoon.
In these instances, the whale of course is shifted like a mug of ale, as it were, from the one boat to the other; though the first boat always hovers at hand to assist its consort.
All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions; so that to the timid eye of the landsman, they seem as Indian jugglers, with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs.
All men live enveloped in whale-lines.
So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars, and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman.
But lazily undulating in the trough of the sea, and ever and anon tranquilly spouting his vapory jet, the whale looked like a portly burgher smoking his pipe of a warm afternoon.
But that pipe, poor whale, was thy last.
So seated like Ontario Indians on the gunwales of the boats, we swiftly but silently paddled along; the calm not admitting of the noiseless sails being set.
It was obvious, now, that the whale had at length become aware of his pursuers.
All silence of cautiousness was therefore no longer of use.
Paddles were dropped, and oars came loudly into play. And still puffing at his pipe, Stubb cheered on his crew to the assault. Yes, a mighty change had come over the fish.
Though apparently the most massive, it is by far the most buoyant part about him.
So that with ease he elevates it in the air, and invariably does so when going at his utmost speed.
Don't hurry yourselves; take plenty of time-but start her; start her like thunder-claps, that's all," cried Stubb, spluttering out the smoke as he spoke.
Start her, now; give 'em the long and strong stroke, Tashtego.
Start her, Tash, my boy-start her, all; but keep cool, keep cool-cucumbers is the word-easy, easy-only start her like grim death and grinning devils, and raise the buried dead perpendicular out of their graves, boys-that's all.
Kee-hee! Kee-hee!" yelled Daggoo, straining forwards and backwards on his seat, like a pacing tiger in his cage. "Ka-la!
Koo-loo!" howled Queequeg, as if smacking his lips over a mouthful of Grenadier's steak.
And thus with oars and yells the keels cut the sea.
Meanwhile, Stubb retaining his place in the van, still encouraged his men to the onset, all the while puffing the smoke from his mouth.
Like desperadoes they tugged and they strained, till the welcome cry was heard-"Stand up, Tashtego!-give it to him!
The oarsmen backed water; the same moment something went hot and hissing along every one of their wrists.
It was the magical line.
An instant before, Stubb had swiftly caught two additional turns with it round the loggerhead, whence, by reason of its increased rapid circlings, a hempen blue smoke now jetted up and mingled with the steady fumes from his pipe.
The boat now flew through the boiling water like a shark all fins.
A continual cascade played at the bows; a ceaseless whirling eddy in her wake; and, at the slightest motion from within, even but of a little finger, the vibrating, cracking craft canted over her spasmodic gunwale into the sea.
His tormented body rolled not in brine but in blood, which bubbled and seethed for furlongs behind in their wake.
Pull up!-close to!" and the boat ranged along the fish's flank.
But that gold watch he sought was the innermost life of the fish.
At last, gush after gush of clotted red gore, as if it had been the purple lees of red wine, shot into the frighted air; and falling back again, ran dripping down his motionless flanks into the sea.
Now it needs a strong, nervous arm to strike the first iron into the fish; for often, in what is called a long dart, the heavy implement has to be flung to the distance of twenty or thirty feet.
In this straining, bawling state, then, with his back to the fish, all at once the exhausted harpooneer hears the exciting cry-"Stand up, and give it to him!
He now has to drop and secure his oar, turn round on his centre half way, seize his harpoon from the crotch, and with what little strength may remain, he essays to pitch it somehow into the whale.
The headsman should stay in the bows from first to last; he should both dart the harpoon and the lance, and no rowing whatever should be expected of him, except under circumstances obvious to any fisherman.
Thereby the weapon is instantly at hand to its hurler, who snatches it up as readily from its rest as a backwoodsman swings his rifle from the wall.
But it very often happens that owing to the instantaneous, violent, convulsive running of the whale upon receiving the first iron, it becomes impossible for the harpooneer, however lightning-like in his movements, to pitch the second iron into him.
Tumbled into the water, it accordingly is in such cases; the spare coils of box line (mentioned in a preceding chapter) making this feat, in most instances, prudently practicable.
For, of course, each boat is supplied with several harpoons to bend on to the line should the first one be ineffectually darted without recovery.
All these particulars are faithfully narrated here, as they will not fail to elucidate several most important, however intricate passages, in scenes hereafter to be painted. CHAPTER LXIV. STUBB'S SUPPER. Stubb's whale had been killed some distance from the ship.
It was a calm; so, forming a tandem of three boats, we commenced the slow business of towing the trophy to the Pequod.
Very soon you would have thought from the sound on the Pequod's decks, that all hands were preparing to cast anchor in the deep; for heavy chains are being dragged along the deck, and thrust rattling out of the port-holes.
But by those clanking links, the vast corpse itself, not the ship, is to be moored.
But this difficulty is ingeniously overcome: a small, strong line is prepared with a wooden float at its outer end, and a weight in its middle, while the other end is secured to the ship.
Such an unwonted bustle was he in that the staid Starbuck, his official superior, quietly resigned to him for the time the sole management of affairs.
One small, helping cause of all this liveliness in Stubb, was soon made strangely manifest.
Stubb was a high liver; he was somewhat intemperately fond of the whale as a flavorish thing to his palate. "A steak, a steak, ere I sleep!
Nor was Stubb the only banqueter on whale's flesh that night.
This particular feat of the shark seems all but miraculous.
How, at such an apparently unassailable surface, they contrive to gouge out such symmetrical mouthfuls, remains a part of the universal problem of all things.
You've been beating this steak too much, cook; it's too tender.
Don't I always say that to be good, a whale-steak must be tough?
There are those sharks now over the side, don't you see they prefer it tough and rare?
What a shindy they are kicking up!
Cook, go and talk to 'em; tell 'em they are welcome to help themselves civilly, and in moderation, but they must keep quiet.
Blast me, if I can hear my own voice.
Away, cook, and deliver my message.
Stop dat dam smackin' ob de lip!
That's no way to convert sinners, Cook!" "Who dat?
How you tink to hear, 'spose you keep up such a dam slappin' and bitin' dare?" "Cook," cried Stubb, collaring him, "I wont have that swearing.
Talk to 'em gentlemanly." Once more the sermon proceeded. "Your woraciousness, fellow-critters, I don't blame ye so much for; dat is natur, and can't be helped; but to gobern dat wicked natur, dat is de pint.
You is sharks, sartin; but if you gobern de shark in you, why den you be angel; for all angel is not'ing more dan de shark well goberned.
Now, look here, bred'ren, just try wonst to be cibil, a helping yourselbs from dat whale.
Don't be tearin' de blubber out your neighbour's mout, I say.
Is not one shark dood right as toder to dat whale?
And, by Gor, none on you has de right to dat whale; dat whale belong to some one else.
In the first place, how old are you, cook?" "What dat do wid de 'teak," said the old black, testily. "Silence!
Where were you born, cook?" "'Hind de hatchway, in ferry-boat, goin' ober de Roanoke." "Born in a ferry-boat!
I mean when you die, cook.
It's an awful question. Now what's your answer?" "When dis old brack man dies," said the negro slowly, changing his whole air and demeanor, "he hisself won't go nowhere; but some bressed angel will come and fetch him." "Fetch him?
In a coach and four, as they fetched Elijah?
And fetch him where?" "Up dere," said Fleece, holding his tongs straight over his head, and keeping it there very solemnly. "So, then, you expect to go up into our main-top, do you, cook, when you are dead?
But don't you know the higher you climb, the colder it gets?
Main-top, eh?" "Didn't say dat t'all," said Fleece, again in the sulks. "You said up there, didn't you? and now look yourself, and see where your tongs are pointing.
But, perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber's hole, cook; but no, no, cook, you don't get there, except you go the regular way, round by the rigging.
It's a ticklish business, but must be done, or else it's no go.
But none of us are in heaven yet.
Drop your tongs, cook, and hear my orders.
Hold your hat in one hand, and clap t'other a'top of your heart, when I'm giving my orders, cook.
What! that your heart, there?-that's your gizzard!
Aloft! aloft!-that's it-now you have it.
Well, for the future, when you cook another whale-steak for my private table here, the capstan, I'll tell you what to do so as not to spoil it by overdoing.
Hold the steak in one hand, and show a live coal to it with the other; that done, dish it; d'ye hear?
And now to-morrow, cook, when we are cutting in the fish, be sure you stand by to get the tips of his fins; have them put in pickle.
As for the ends of the flukes, have them soused, cook.
Whale-balls for breakfast-don't forget." "Wish, by gor! whale eat him, 'stead of him eat whale.
Also, that in Henry VIIIth's time, a certain cook of the court obtained a handsome reward for inventing an admirable sauce to be eaten with barbacued porpoises, which, you remember, are a species of whale.
Only the most unprejudiced of men like Stubb, nowadays partake of cooked whales; but the Esquimaux are not so fastidious.
We all know how they live upon whales, and have rare old vintages of prime old train oil.
Zogranda, one of their most famous doctors, recommends strips of blubber for infants, as being exceedingly juicy and nourishing.
He is the great prize ox of the sea, too fat to be delicately good.
Look at his hump, which would be as fine eating as the buffalo's (which is esteemed a rare dish), were it not such a solid pyramid of fat.
But the spermaceti itself, how bland and creamy that is; like the transparent, half-jellied, white meat of a cocoanut in the third month of its growth, yet far too rich to supply a substitute for butter.
Nevertheless, many whalemen have a method of absorbing it into some other substance, and then partaking of it.
In the long try watches of the night it is a common thing for the seamen to dip their ship-biscuit into the huge oil-pots and let them fry there awhile.
Many a good supper have I thus made. In the case of a small Sperm Whale the brains are accounted a fine dish.
And that is the reason why a young buck with an intelligent looking calf's head before him, is somehow one of the saddest sights you can see.
Does not that sight take a tooth out of the cannibal's jaw?
Cannibals? who is not a cannibal?
Look at your knife-handle, there, my civilized and enlightened gourmand dining off that roast beef, what is that handle made of?-what but the bones of the brother of the very ox you are eating?
And what do you pick your teeth with, after devouring that fat goose?
With a feather of the same fowl.
And with what quill did the Secretary of the Society for the Suppression of Cruelty to Ganders formally indite his circulars?
But in the foamy confusion of their mixed and struggling hosts, the marksmen could not always hit their mark; and this brought about new revelations of the incredible ferocity of the foe.
They viciously snapped, not only at each other's disembowelments, but like flexible bows, bent round, and bit their own; till those entrails seemed swallowed over and over again by the same mouth, to be oppositely voided by the gaping wound.
It was unsafe to meddle with the corpses and ghosts of these creatures.
A sort of generic or Pantheistic vitality seemed to lurk in their very joints and bones, after what might be called the individual life had departed.
This weapon is always kept as sharp as possible; and when being used is occasionally honed, just like a razor.
Ex officio professors of Sabbath breaking are all whalemen.
The ivory Pequod was turned into what seemed a shamble; every sailor a butcher.
And now suspended in stages over the side, Starbuck and Stubb, the mates, armed with their long spades, began cutting a hole in the body for the insertion of the hook just above the nearest of the two side-fins.
This done, a broad, semicircular line is cut round the hole, the hook is inserted, and the main body of the crew striking up a wild chorus, now commence heaving in one dense crowd at the windlass.
When instantly, the entire ship careens over on her side; every bolt in her starts like the nail-heads of an old house in frosty weather; she trembles, quivers, and nods her frighted mast-heads to the sky.
Now as the blubber envelopes the whale precisely as the rind does an orange, so is it stripped off from the body precisely as an orange is sometimes stripped by spiralizing it.
Into this twilight apartment sundry nimble hands keep coiling away the long blanket-piece as if it were a great live mass of plaited serpents.
I have had controversies about it with experienced whalemen afloat, and learned naturalists ashore.
My original opinion remains unchanged; but it is only an opinion. The question is, what and where is the skin of the whale?
Already you know what his blubber is.
I have several such dried bits, which I use for marks in my whale-books. It is transparent, as I said before; and being laid upon the printed page, I have sometimes pleased myself with fancying it exerted a magnifying influence.
At any rate, it is pleasant to read about whales through their own spectacles, as you may say.
But what I am driving at here is this.
Almost invariably it is all over obliquely crossed and re-crossed with numberless straight marks in thick array, something like those in the finest Italian line engravings.
But these marks do not seem to be impressed upon the isinglass substance above mentioned, but seem to be seen through it, as if they were engraved upon the body itself.
This allusion to the Indian rocks reminds me of another thing.
It has already been said, that it is stript from him in long pieces, called blanket-pieces.
Like most sea-terms, this one is very happy and significant.
For the whale is indeed wrapt up in his blubber as in a real blanket or counterpane; or, still better, an Indian poncho slipt over his head, and skirting his extremity.
Oh, man! admire and model thyself after the whale!
Do thou, too, remain warm among ice.
Do thou, too, live in this world without being of it.
Be cool at the equator; keep thy blood fluid at the Pole.
Like the great dome of St. Peter's, and like the great whale, retain, O man! in all seasons a temperature of thine own. But how easy and how hopeless to teach these fine things!
Of erections, how few are domed like St. Peter's! of creatures, how few vast as the whale! CHAPTER LXIX. THE FUNERAL. "Haul in the chains!
Let the carcase go astern!" The vast tackles have now done their duty.
The peeled white body of the beheaded whale flashes like a marble sepulchre; though changed in hue, it has not perceptibly lost anything in bulk.
Slowly it floats more and more away, the water round it torn and splashed by the insatiate sharks, and the air above vexed with rapacious flights of screaming fowls, whose beaks are like so many insulting poniards in the whale.
The vast white headless phantom floats further and further from the ship, and every rod that it so floats, what seem square roods of sharks and cubic roods of fowls, augment the murderous din.
For hours and hours from the almost stationary ship that hideous sight is seen.
The sea-vultures all in pious mourning, the air-sharks all punctiliously in black or speckled.
In life but few of them would have helped the whale, I ween, if peradventure he had needed it; but upon the banquet of his funeral they most piously do pounce.
Oh, horrible vultureism of earth! from which not the mightiest whale is free. Nor is this the end.
Desecrated as the body is, a vengeful ghost survives and hovers over it to scare.
There's your law of precedents; there's your utility of traditions; there's the story of your obstinate survival of old beliefs never bottomed on the earth, and now not even hovering in the air!
There's orthodoxy! Thus, while in life the great whale's body may have been a real terror to his foes, in his death his ghost becomes a powerless panic to a world. Are you a believer in ghosts, my friend?
Remember, also, that the surgeon must operate from above, some eight or ten feet intervening between him and his subject, and that subject almost hidden in a discolored, rolling, and oftentimes tumultuous and bursting sea.
Do you not marvel, then, at Stubb's boast, that he demanded but ten minutes to behead a sperm whale? When first severed, the head is dropped astern and held there by a cable till the body is stripped.
That done, if it belong to a small whale it is hoisted on deck to be deliberately disposed of.
Silence reigned over the before tumultuous but now deserted deck.
An intense copper calm, like a universal yellow lotus, was more and more unfolding its noiseless measureless leaves upon the sea. A short space elapsed, and up into this noiselessness came Ahab alone from his cabin.
Speak, thou vast and venerable head," muttered Ahab, "which, though ungarnished with a beard, yet here and there lookest hoary with mosses; speak, mighty head, and tell us the secret thing that is in thee.
Of all divers, thou hast dived the deepest.
That head upon which the upper sun now gleams, has moved amid this world's foundations.
Where unrecorded names and navies rust, and untold hopes and anchors rot; where in her murderous hold this frigate earth is ballasted with bones of millions of the drowned; there, in that awful water-land, there was thy most familiar home.
Thou hast been where bell or diver never went; hast slept by many a sailor's side, where sleepless mothers would give their lives to lay them down.
Thou saw'st the locked lovers when leaping from their flaming ship; heart to heart they sank beneath the exulting wave; true to each other, when heaven seemed false to them.
O head! thou hast seen enough to split the planets and make an infidel of Abraham, and not one syllable is thine!" "Sail ho!" cried a triumphant voice from the main-mast-head. "Aye?
Well, now, that's cheering," cried Ahab, suddenly erecting himself, while whole thunder-clouds swept aside from his brow.
That lively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better man.-Where away?" "Three points on the starboard bow, sir, and bringing down her breeze to us!" "Better and better, man.
Would now St. Paul would come along that way, and to my breezelessness bring his breeze!
But as she was so far to windward, and shooting by, apparently making a passage to some other ground, the Pequod could not hope to reach her.
It turned out that the Jeroboam had a malignant epidemic on board, and that Mayhew, her captain, was fearful of infecting the Pequod's company.
He was a small, short, youngish man, sprinkled all over his face with freckles, and wearing redundant yellow hair.
A long-skirted, cabalistically-cut coat of a faded walnut tinge enveloped him; the overlapping sleeves of which were rolled up on his wrists.
A deep, settled, fanatic delirium was in his eyes. So soon as this figure had been first descried, Stubb had exclaimed-"That's he! that's he!-the long-togged scaramouch the Town-Ho's company told us of!
Stubb here alluded to a strange story told of the Jeroboam, and a certain man among her crew, some time previous when the Pequod spoke the Town-Ho.
According to this account and what was subsequently learned, it seemed that the scaramouch in question had gained a wonderful ascendency over almost everybody in the Jeroboam.
A strange, apostolic whim having seized him, he had left Neskyeuna for Nantucket, where, with that cunning peculiar to craziness, he assumed a steady, common sense exterior, and offered himself as a green-hand candidate for the Jeroboam's whaling voyage.
They engaged him; but straightway upon the ship's getting out of sight of land, his insanity broke out in a freshet.
He announced himself as the archangel Gabriel, and commanded the captain to jump overboard.
He published his manifesto, whereby he set himself forth as the deliverer of the isles of the sea and vicar-general of all Oceanica.
So strongly did he work upon his disciples among the crew, that at last in a body they went to the captain and told him if Gabriel was sent from the ship, not a man of them would remain.
He was therefore forced to relinquish his plan.
Nor would they permit Gabriel to be any way maltreated, say or do what he would; so that it came to pass that Gabriel had the complete freedom of the ship.
The sailors, mostly poor devils, cringed, and some of them fawned before him; in obedience to his instructions, sometimes rendering him personal homage, as to a god.
Such things may seem incredible; but, however wondrous, they are true.
Nor is the history of fanatics half so striking in respect to the measureless self-deception of the fanatic himself, as his measureless power of deceiving and bedevilling so many others.
Beware of the horrible tail!" "I tell thee again, Gabriel, that-" But again the boat tore ahead as if dragged by fiends.
Nothing was said for some moments, while a succession of riotous waves rolled by, which by one of those occasional caprices of the seas were tumbling, not heaving it.
Meantime, Gabriel, ascending to the main-royal mast-head, was tossing one arm in frantic gestures, and hurling forth prophecies of speedy doom to the sacrilegious assailants of his divinity.
Next instant, the luckless mate, so full of furious life, was smitten bodily into the air, and making a long arc in his descent, fell into the sea at the distance of about fifty yards.
Raising a piercing shriek-"The vial! the vial!
Gabriel called off the terror-stricken crew from the further hunting of the whale.
He became a nameless terror to the ship. Mayhew having concluded his narration, Ahab put such questions to him, that the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring whether he intended to hunt the White Whale, if opportunity should offer.
It was sorely tumbled, damp, and covered with a dull, spotted, green mould, in consequence of being kept in a dark locker of the cabin.
Of such a letter, Death himself might well have been the post-boy. "Can'st not read it?" cried Ahab.
Aye, aye, it's but a dim scrawl;-what's this?
Captain Mayhew, stand by now to receive it;" and taking the fatal missive from Starbuck's hands, he caught it in the slit of the pole, and reached it over towards the boat.
But as he did so, the oarsmen expectantly desisted from rowing; the boat drifted a little towards the ship's stern; so that, as if by magic, the letter suddenly ranged along with Gabriel's eager hand.
He clutched it in an instant, seized the boat-knife, and impaling the letter on it, sent it thus loaded back into the ship.
It fell at Ahab's feet.
Now hands are wanted here, and then again hands are wanted there.
There is no staying in any one place; for at one and the same time everything has to be done everywhere.
It is much the same with him who endeavors the description of the scene.
We must now retrace our way a little.
It was mentioned that upon first breaking ground in the whale's back, the blubber-hook was inserted into the original hole there cut by the spades of the mates.
But how did so clumsy and weighty a mass as that same hook get fixed in that hole?
The whale, be it observed, lies almost entirely submerged, excepting the immediate parts operated upon.
So down there, some ten feet below the level of the deck, the poor harpooneer flounders about, half on the whale and half in the water, as the vast mass revolves like a tread-mill beneath him.
You have seen Italian organ-boys holding a dancing-ape by a long cord.
For, before we proceed further, it must be said that the monkey-rope was fast at both ends; fast to Queequeg's broad canvas belt, and fast to my narrow leather one.
So, then, an elongated Siamese ligature united us.
Therefore, I saw that here was a sort of interregnum in Providence; for its even-handed equity never could have so gross an injustice.
If your banker breaks, you snap; if your apothecary by mistake sends you poison in your pills, you die.
True, you may say that, by exceeding caution, you may possibly escape these and the multitudinous other evil chances of life.
But handle Queequeg's monkey-rope heedfully as I would, sometimes he jerked it so, that I came very near sliding overboard.
But this was not the only jamming jeopardy he was exposed to.
Accordingly, besides the monkey-rope, with which I now and then jerked the poor fellow from too close a vicinity to the maw of what seemed a peculiarly ferocious shark-he was provided with still another protection.
Suspended over the side in one of the stages, Tashtego and Daggoo continually flourished over his head a couple of keen whale-spades, wherewith they slaughtered as many sharks as they could reach.
This procedure of theirs, to be sure, was very disinterested and benevolent of them.
Are you not the precious image of each and all of us men in this whaling world?
For now, as with blue lips and blood-shot eyes the exhausted savage at last climbs up the chains and stands all dripping and involuntarily trembling over the side; the steward advances, and with a benevolent, consolatory glance hands him-what?
No! hands him, ye gods! hands him a cup of tepid ginger and water! "Ginger?
Ginger! is ginger the sort of fuel you use, Dough-boy, to kindle a fire in this shivering cannibal?
Will you look at that kannakin, sir; smell of it, if you please.
Then watching the mate's countenance, he added, "The steward, Mr. Starbuck, had the face to offer that calomel and jalap to Queequeg, there, this instant off the whale.
I hope I do no wrong, Mr. Starbuck.
What were you about saying, sir?" "Only this: go down with him, and get what thou wantest thyself." When Stubb reappeared, he came with a dark flask in one hand, and a sort of tea-caddy in the other.
But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it.
Tall spouts were seen to leeward; and two boats, Stubb's and Flask's, were detached in pursuit.
Pulling further and further away, they at last became almost invisible to the men at the mast-head.
But suddenly in the distance, they saw a great heap of tumultuous white water, and soon after news came from aloft that one or both the boats must be fast.
An interval passed and the boats were in plain sight, in the act of being dragged right towards the ship by the towing whale.
Cut, cut!" was the cry from the ship to the boats, which, for one instant, seemed on the point of being brought with a deadly dash against the vessel's side.
But having plenty of line yet in the tubs, and the whale not sounding very rapidly, they paid out abundance of rope, and at the same time pulled with all their might so as to get ahead of the ship.
For a few minutes the struggle was intensely critical; for while they still slacked out the tightened line in one direction, and still plied their oars in another, the contending strain threatened to take them under.
But it was only a few feet advance they sought to gain.
But I sometimes think he'll charm the ship to no good at last.
I don't half like that chap, Stubb.
Did you ever notice how that tusk of his is a sort of carved into a snake's head, Stubb?" "Sink him!
Flask, I take that Fedallah to be the devil in disguise.
Do you believe that cock and bull story about his having been stowed away on board ship?
He's the devil, I say.
The reason why you don't see his tail, is because he tucks it up out of sight; he carries it coiled away in his pocket, I guess.
Blast him! now that I think of it, he's always wanting oakum to stuff into the toes of his boots." "He sleeps in his boots, don't he?
Stubb, you are skylarking; how can Fedallah do that?" "I don't know, Flask, but the devil is a curious chap, and a wicked one, I tell ye.
Why, they say as how he went a sauntering into the old flag-ship once, switching his tail about devilish easy and gentlemanlike, and inquiring if the old governor was at home.
Well, he was at home, and asked the devil what he wanted.
The devil, switching his hoofs, up and says, 'I want John.
What for?' says the old governor.
What business is that of yours,' says the devil, getting mad,-'I want to use him.
Take him,' says the governor-and by the Lord, Flask, if the devil didn't give John the Asiatic cholera before he got through with him, I'll eat this whale in one mouthful.
But look sharp-aint you all ready there?
Adventures of those three bloody-minded soldadoes? Did ye read it there, Flask?
I guess ye did?" "No: never saw such a book; heard of it, though.
But now, tell me, Stubb, do you suppose that that devil you was speaking of just now, was the same you say is now on board the Pequod?" "Am I the same man that helped kill this whale?
Doesn't the devil live for ever; who ever heard that the devil was dead?
Did you ever see any parson a wearing mourning for the devil?
And if the devil has a latch-key to get into the admiral's cabin, don't you suppose he can crawl into a port-hole?
Nor all the coopers in creation couldn't show hoops enough to make oughts enough." "But see here, Stubb, I thought you a little boasted just now, that you meant to give Fedallah a sea-toss, if you got a good chance.
Damn the devil, Flask; do you suppose I'm afraid of the devil?
There's a governor!" "Do you suppose Fedallah wants to kidnap Captain Ahab?" "Do I suppose it?
You'll know it before long, Flask.
As before, the Pequod steeply leaned over towards the sperm whale's head, now, by the counterpoise of both heads, she regained her even keel; though sorely strained, you may well believe.
So, when on one side you hoist in Locke's head, you go over that way; but now, on the other side, hoist in Kant's and you come back again; but in very poor plight.
Thus, some minds for ever keep trimming boat.
But nothing like this, in the present case, had been done.
And Ahab chanced so to stand, that the Parsee occupied his shadow; while, if the Parsee's shadow was there at all it seemed only to blend with, and lengthen Ahab's.
They are the only whales regularly hunted by man.
To the Nantucketer, they present the two extremes of all the known varieties of the whale.
Both are massive enough in all conscience; but there is a certain mathematical symmetry in the Sperm Whale's which the Right Whale's sadly lacks.
There is more character in the Sperm Whale's head. As you behold it, you involuntarily yield the immense superiority to him, in point of pervading dignity.
In the present instance, too, this dignity is heightened by the pepper and salt color of his head at the summit, giving token of advanced age and large experience.
In short, he is what the fishermen technically call a "grey-headed whale." Let us now note what is least dissimilar in these heads-namely, the two most important organs, the eye and the ear.
In a word, the position of the whale's eyes corresponds to that of a man's ears; and you may fancy, for yourself, how it would fare with you, did you sideways survey objects through your ears.
You would find that you could only command some thirty degrees of vision in advance of the straight side-line of sight; and about thirty more behind it.
If your bitterest foe were walking straight towards you, with dagger uplifted in broad day, you would not be able to see him, any more than if he were stealing upon you from behind.
The whale, therefore, must see one distinct picture on this side, and another distinct picture on that side; while all between must be profound darkness and nothingness to him.
Man may, in effect, be said to look out on the world from a sentry-box with two joined sashes for his window.
But with the whale, these two sashes are separately inserted, making two distinct windows, but sadly impairing the view.
But I must be content with a hint.
So long as a man's eyes are open in the light, the act of seeing is involuntary; that is, he cannot then help mechanically seeing whatever objects are before him.
How is it, then, with the whale?
If you are an entire stranger to their race, you might hunt over these two heads for hours, and never discover that organ.
The ear has no external leaf whatever; and into the hole itself you can hardly insert a quill, so wondrously minute is it.
It is lodged a little behind the eye.
With respect to their ears, this important difference is to be observed between the sperm whale and the right.
But if his eyes were broad as the lens of Herschel's great telescope; and his ears capacious as the porches of cathedrals; would that make him any longer of sight, or sharper of hearing?
But let us hold on here by this tooth, and look about us where we are.
With a keen cutting-spade, Queequeg lances the gums; then the jaw is lashed down to ringbolts, and a tackle being rigged from aloft, they drag out these teeth, as Michigan oxen drag stumps of old oaks out of wild wood-lands.
There are generally forty-two teeth in all; in old whales, much worn down, but undecayed; nor filled after our artificial fashion.
Two hundred years ago an old Dutch voyager likened its shape to that of a shoemaker's last.
If you stand on its summit and look at these two _f_-shaped spout-holes, you would take the whole head for an enormous bass-viol, and these spiracles, the apertures in its sounding-board.
But if this whale be a king, he is a very sulky looking fellow to grace a diadem.
Probably the mother during an important interval was sailing down the Peruvian coast, when earthquakes caused the beach to gape.
Over this lip, as over a slippery threshold, we now slide into the mouth.
Upon my word were I at Mackinaw, I should take this to be the inside of an Indian wigwam. Good Lord! is this the road that Jonah went?
The edges of these bones are fringed with hairy fibres, through which the Right Whale strains the water, and in whose intricacies he retains the small fish, when open-mouthed he goes through the seas of brit in feeding time.
In the central blinds of bone, as they stand in their natural order, there are certain curious marks, curves, hollows, and ridges, whereby some whalemen calculate the creature's age, as the age of an oak by its circular rings.
Though the certainty of this criterion is far from demonstrable, yet it has the savor of analogical probability.
Sometimes these tufts impart a rather brigandish expression to his otherwise solemn countenance. As every one knows, these same "hogs' bristles," "fins," "whiskers," "blinds," or whatever you please, furnish to the ladies their busks and other stiffening contrivances.
But in this particular, the demand has long been on the decline.
It was in Queen Anne's time that the bone was in its glory, the farthingale being then all the fashion.
Seeing all these colonnades of bone so methodically ranged about, would you not think you were inside of the great Haarlem organ, and gazing upon its thousand pipes?
For a carpet to the organ we have a rug of the softest Turkey-the tongue, which is glued, as it were, to the floor of the mouth.
It is very fat and tender, and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting it on deck.
To sum up, then: in the Right Whale's there is no great well of sperm; no ivory teeth at all; no long, slender mandible of a lower jaw, like the Sperm Whale's.
Nor in the Sperm Whale are there any of those blinds of bone; no huge lower lip; and scarcely anything of a tongue.
It is the same he died with, only some of the longer wrinkles in the forehead seem now faded away.
I think his broad brow to be full of a prairie-like placidity, born of a speculative indifference as to death.
But mark the other head's expression.
See that amazing lower lip, pressed by accident against the vessel's side, so as firmly to embrace the jaw.
Does not this whole head seem to speak of an enormous practical resolution in facing death?
I would have you investigate it now with the sole view of forming to yourself some unexaggerated, intelligent estimate of whatever battering-ram power may be lodged there.
Wherefore, you must now have perceived that the front of the Sperm Whale's head is a dead, blind wall, without a single organ or tender prominence of any sort whatsoever.
So that this whole enormous boneless mass is as one wad.
Finally, though, as will soon be revealed, its contents partly comprise the most delicate oil; yet, you are now to be apprised of the nature of the substance which so impregnably invests all that apparent effeminacy.
The severest pointed harpoon, the sharpest lance darted by the strongest human arm, impotently rebounds from it.
It is as though the forehead of the Sperm Whale were paved with horses' hoofs.
I do not think that any sensation lurks in it. Bethink yourself also of another thing.
When two large, loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks, what do the sailors do?
They do not suspend between them, at the point of coming contact, any merely hard substance, like iron or wood.
No, they hold there a large, round wad of tow and cork, enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox-hide.
That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow-bars.
By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at.
If this be so, fancy the irresistibleness of that might, to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes. Now, mark.
For unless you own the whale, you are but a provincial and sentimentalist in Truth.
But clear Truth is a thing for salamander giants only to encounter; how small the chances for the provincials then?
What befel the weakling youth lifting the dread goddess's veil at Lais? CHAPTER LXXVII. THE GREAT HEIDELBURGH TUN. Now comes the Baling of the Case.
At the middle of the forehead horizontally subdivide this upper quoin, and then you have two almost equal parts, which before were naturally divided by an internal wall of a thick tendinous substance. [17] Quoin is not a Euclidean term.
It belongs to the pure nautical mathematics.
I know not that it has been defined before.
The upper part, known as the Case, may be regarded as the great Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale.
And as that famous great tierce is mystically carved in front, so the whale's vast plaited forehead forms innumerable strange devices for the emblematical adornment of his wondrous tun.
Nor is this precious substance found unalloyed in any other part of the creature.
Though in life it remains perfectly fluid, yet, upon exposure to the air, after death, it soon begins to concrete; sending forth beautiful crystalline shoots, as when the first thin delicate ice is just forming in water.
He has carried with him a light tackle called a whip, consisting of only two parts, travelling through a single-sheaved block.
Securing this block, so that it hangs down from the yard-arm, he swings one end of the rope, till it is caught and firmly held by a hand on deck.
Then, hand-over-hand, down the other part, the Indian drops through the air, till dexterously he lands on the summit of the head.
There-still high elevated above the rest of the company, to whom he vivaciously cries-he seems some Turkish Muezzin calling the good people to prayers from the top of a tower.
A short-handled sharp spade being sent up to him, he diligently searches for the proper place to begin breaking into the Tun.
These last now hoist the bucket within grasp of the Indian, to whom another person has reached up a very long pole.
Carefully lowered from its height, the full-freighted vessel is caught by an appointed hand, and quickly emptied into a large tub.
Then re-mounting aloft, it again goes through the same round until the deep cistern will yield no more.
Meantime, there was a terrible tumult.
How will that help him; jamming that iron-bound bucket on top of his head?
But hardly had the blinding vapor cleared away, when a naked figure with a boarding-sword in its hand, was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks.
The next, a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue.
One packed rush was made to the side, and every eye counted every ripple, as moment followed moment, and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen.
Drawn into the waiting boat, they were quickly brought to the deck; but Tashtego was long in coming to, and Queequeg did not look very brisk. Now, how had this noble rescue been accomplished?
We thought the tissued, infiltrated head of the Sperm Whale, was the lightest and most corky part about him; and yet thou makest it sink in an element of a far greater specific gravity than itself.
Such an enterprise would seem almost as hopeful as for Lavater to have scrutinized the wrinkles on the Rock of Gibraltar, or for Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated the Dome of the Pantheon.
Still, in that famous work of his, Lavater not only treats of the various faces of men, but also attentively studies the faces of horses, birds, serpents, and fish; and dwells in detail upon the modifications of expression discernible therein.
Nor have Gall and his disciple Spurzheim failed to throw out some hints touching the phrenological characteristics of other beings than man.
Therefore, though I am but ill qualified for a pioneer, in the application of these two semi-sciences to the whale, I will do my endeavor.
I try all things; I achieve what I can. Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature. He has no proper nose.
For as in landscape gardening, a spire, cupola, monument, or tower of some sort, is deemed almost indispensable to the completion of the scene; so no face can be physiognomically in keeping without the elevated open-work belfry of the nose.
Dash the nose from Phidias's marble Jove, and what a sorry remainder!
Nevertheless, Leviathan is of so mighty a magnitude, all his proportions are so stately, that the same deficiency which in the sculptured Jove were hideous, in him is no blemish at all.
Nay, it is an added grandeur.
This aspect is sublime. In thought, a fine human brow is like the East when troubled with the morning.
In the repose of the pasture, the curled brow of the bull has a touch of the grand in it.
Pushing heavy cannon up mountain defiles, the elephant's brow is majestic.
Human or animal, the mystical brow is as that great golden seal affixed by the German emperors to their decrees.
It signifies-"God: done this day by my hand.
But in most creatures, nay in man himself, very often the brow is but a mere strip of alpine land lying along the snow line.
Genius in the Sperm Whale?
Has the Sperm Whale ever written a book, spoken a speech?
No, his great genius is declared in his doing nothing particular to prove it.
It is moreover declared in his pyramidical silence.
And this reminds me that had the great Sperm Whale been known to the young Orient World, he would have been deified by their child-magian thoughts.
They deified the crocodile of the Nile, because the crocodile is tongueless; and the Sperm Whale has no tongue, or at least it is so exceedingly small, as to be incapable of protrusion.
But there is no Champollion to decipher the Egypt of every man's and every being's face.
Physiognomy, like every other human science, is but a passing fable.
If then, Sir William Jones, who read in thirty languages, could not read the simplest peasant's face in its profounder and more subtle meanings, how may unlettered Ishmael hope to read the awful Chaldee of the Sperm Whale's brow?
I but put that brow before you.
Unhinge the lower jaw, and the side view of this skull is as the side view of a moderately inclined plane resting throughout on a level base.
But in life-as we have elsewhere seen-this inclined plane is angularly filled up, and almost squared by the enormous superincumbent mass of the junk and sperm.
If you attentively regard almost any quadruped's spine, you will be struck with the resemblance of its vertebrae to a strung necklace of dwarfed skulls, all bearing rudimental resemblance to the skull proper.
It is a German conceit, that the vertebrae are absolutely undeveloped skulls.
But the curious external resemblance, I take it the Germans were not the first men to perceive.
A foreign friend once pointed it out to me, in the skeleton of a foe he had slain, and with the vertebrae of which he was inlaying, in a sort of basso-relievo, the beaked prow of his canoe.
Now, I consider that the phrenologists have omitted an important thing in not pushing their investigations from the cerebellum through the spinal canal.
For I believe that much of a man's character will be found betokened in his backbone.
I would rather feel your spine than your skull, whoever you are.
A thin joist of a spine never yet upheld a full and noble soul.
I rejoice in my spine, as in the firm audacious staff of that flag which I fling half out to the world. Apply this spinal branch of phrenology to the Sperm Whale.
His cranial cavity is continuous with the first neck-vertebra; and in that vertebra the bottom of the spinal canal will measure ten inches across, being eight in height, and of a triangular figure with the base downwards.
As it passes through the remaining vertebrae the canal tapers in size, but for a considerable distance remains of large capacity.
This august hump, if I mistake not, rises over one of the larger vertebrae, and is, therefore, in some sort, the outer convex mould of it.
From its relative situation then, I should call this high hump the organ of firmness or indomitableness in the Sperm Whale.
Impossible!-a lamp-feeder!" "Not that," said Stubb, "no, no, it's a coffee-pot, Mr. Starbuck; he's coming off to make us our coffee, is the Yarman; don't you see that big tin can there alongside of him?-that's his boiling water.
There were eight whales, an average pod.
Aware of their danger, they were going all abreast with great speed straight before the wind, rubbing their flanks as closely as so many spans of horses in harness.
Lord, think of having half an acre of stomach-ache!
Adverse winds are holding mad Christmas in him, boys.
At this juncture, the Pequod's keel had shot by the three German boats last lowered; but from the great start he had had, Derick's boat still led the chase, though every moment neared by his foreign rivals.
The only thing they feared, was, that from being already so nigh to his mark, he would be enabled to dart his iron before they could completely overtake and pass him.
Dog to it!" "I tell ye what it is, men"-cried Stubb to his crew-"It's against my religion to get mad; but I'd like to eat that villanous Yarman-Pull-won't ye?
Are ye going to let that rascal beat ye?
A hogshead of brandy, then, to the best man.
Come, why don't some of ye burst a blood-vessel?
Who's that been dropping an anchor overboard-we don't budge an inch-we're becalmed.
Halloo, here's grass growing in the boat's bottom-and by the Lord, the mast there's budding.
The short and long of it is, men, will ye spit fire or not?" "Oh! see the suds he makes!" cried Flask, dancing up and down-"What a hump-Oh, _do_ pile on the beef-lays like a log!
There goes three thousand dollars, men!-a bank!-a whole bank!
Pull now, men, like fifty thousand line-of-battle-ship loads of red-haired devils.
What d'ye say, Tashtego; are you the man to snap your spine in two-and-twenty pieces for the honor of old Gay-head?
What d'ye say?" "I say, pull like god-dam,"-cried the Indian. Fiercely, but evenly incited by the taunts of the German, the Pequod's three boats now began ranging almost abreast; and, so disposed, momentarily neared him.
In that fine, loose, chivalrous attitude of the headsman when drawing near to his prey, the three mates stood up proudly, occasionally backing the after oarsman with an exhilarating cry of, "There she slides, now!
Hurrah for the white-ash breeze!
While this clumsy lubber was striving to free his white-ash, and while, in consequence, Derick's boat was nigh to capsizing, and he thundering away at his men in a mighty rage;-that was a good time for Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask.
With a shout, they took a mortal start forwards, and slantingly ranged up on the German's quarter.
An instant more, and all four boats were diagonically in the whale's immediate wake, while stretching from them, on both sides, was the foaming swell that he made. It was a terrific, most pitiable, and maddening sight.
The whale was now going head out, and sending his spout before him in a continual tormented jet; while his one poor fin beat his side in an agony of fright.
Now to this hand, now to that, he yawed in his faltering flight, and still at every billow that he broke, he spasmodically sank in the sea, or sideways rolled towards the sky his one beating fin.
So have I seen a bird with clipped wing, making affrighted broken circles in the air, vainly striving to escape the piratical hawks.
Blinding vapors of foam and white-fire!
Hurrah! this is the way to sail now.
Hurrah!-Here we go like three tin kettles at the tail of a mad cougar!
This puts me in mind of fastening to an elephant in a tilbury on a plain-makes the wheel-spokes fly, boys, when you fasten to him that way; and there's danger of being pitched out too, when you strike a hill.
Hurrah! this is the way a fellow feels when he's going to Davy Jones-all a rush down an endless inclined plane!
Hurrah! this whale carries the everlasting mail!" But the monster's run was a brief one.
Giving a sudden gasp, he tumultuously sounded.
And the whale soon ceasing to sound, for some time they remained in that attitude, fearful of expending more line, though the position was a little ticklish.
We all know what an astonishing atmospheric weight we ourselves stand up under; even here, above-ground, in the air; how vast, then, the burden of a whale, bearing on his back a column of two hundred fathoms of ocean!
It must at least equal the weight of fifty atmospheres.
Not eight inches of perpendicular rope were visible at the bows. Seems it credible that by three such thin threads the great Leviathan was suspended like the big weight to an eight day clock.
To three bits of board.
Is this the creature of whom it was once so triumphantly said-"Canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons? or his head with fish-spears?
This the creature? this he?
Oh! that unfulfilments should follow the prophets.
Haul in!" cried Starbuck again; "he's rising.
In most land animals there are certain valves or flood-gates in many of their veins, whereby when wounded, the blood is in some degree at least instantly shut off in certain directions.
From this last vent no blood yet came, because no vital part of him had thus far been struck.
His life, as they significantly call it, was untouched. As the boats now more closely surrounded him, the whole upper part of his form, with much of it that is ordinarily submerged, was plainly revealed.
His eyes, or rather the places where his eyes had been, were beheld.
As strange misgrown masses gather in the knot-holes of the noblest oaks when prostrate, so from the points which the whale's eyes had once occupied, now protruded blind bulbs, horribly pitiable to see. But pity there was none.
It was his death stroke.
It was most piteous, that last expiring spout.
But still more curious was the fact of a lance-head of stone being found in him, not far from the buried iron, the flesh perfectly firm about it.
Who had darted that stone lance?
It might have been darted by some Nor' West Indian long before America was discovered. What other marvels might have been rummaged out of this monstrous cabinet there is no telling.
Meantime everything in the Pequod was aslant.
To cross to the other side of the deck was like walking up the steep gabled roof of a house.
The ship groaned and gasped.
Many of the ivory inlayings of her bulwarks and cabins were started from their places, by the unnatural dislocation.
By thunder, men, we must do something or go for it.
No use prying there; avast, I say with your handspikes, and run one of ye for a prayer book and a pen-knife, and cut the big chains." "Knife?
Aye, aye," cried Queequeg, and seizing the carpenter's heavy hatchet, he leaned out of a porthole, and steel to iron, began slashing at the largest fluke-chains.
But a few strokes, full of sparks, were given, when the exceeding strain effected the rest.
With a terrific snap, every fastening went adrift; the ship righted, the carcase sank. Now, this occasional inevitable sinking of the recently killed Sperm Whale is a very curious thing; nor has any fisherman yet adequately accounted for it.
Usually the dead Sperm Whale floats with great buoyancy, with its side or belly considerably elevated above the surface.
But it is not so.
Where one of that sort go down, twenty Right Whales do.
But there are instances where, after the lapse of many hours or several days, the sunken whale again rises, more buoyant than in life.
But the reason of this is obvious.
Gases are generated in him; he swells to a prodigious magnitude; becomes a sort of animal balloon.
A line-of-battle ship could hardly keep him under then.
Nevertheless, the Fin-Back's spout is so similar to the Sperm Whale's, that by unskilful fishermen it is often mistaken for it.
And consequently Derick and all his host were now in valiant chase of this unnearable brute.
It was an admirable artistic exploit, rarely achieved by the best harpooneers of the present day; inasmuch as this Leviathan was slain at the very first dart.
Thou art as a lion of the waters, and as a dragon of the sea," saith Ezekiel; hereby, plainly meaning a whale; in truth, some versions of the Bible use that word itself.
Besides, it would much subtract from the glory of the exploit had St. George but encountered a crawling reptile of the land, instead of doing battle with the great monster of the deep.
Thus, then, one of our own noble stamp, even a whaleman, is the tutelary guardian of England; and by good rights, we harpooneers of Nantucket should be enrolled in the most noble order of St. George.
It nowhere appears that he ever actually harpooned his fish, unless, indeed, from the inside.
Nevertheless, he may be deemed a sort of involuntary whaleman; at any rate the whale caught him, if he did not the whale.
If I claim the demi-god then, why not the prophet? Nor do heroes, saints, demigods, and prophets alone comprise the whole roll of our order.
Our grand master is still to be named; for like royal kings of old times, we find the head-waters of our fraternity in nothing short of the great gods themselves.
Was not this Vishnoo a whaleman, then? even as a man who rides a horse is called a horseman? Perseus, St. George, Hercules, Jonah, and Vishnoo! there's a member-roll for you!
What club but the whaleman's can head off like that? CHAPTER LXXXIII. JONAH HISTORICALLY REGARDED. Reference was made to the historical story of Jonah and the whale in the preceding chapter.
Now some Nantucketers rather distrust this historical story of Jonah and the whale.
It is not necessary, hints the Bishop, that we consider Jonah as tombed in the whale's belly, but as temporarily lodged in some part of his mouth. And this seems reasonable enough in the good Bishop.
For truly, the Right Whale's mouth would accommodate a couple of whist-tables, and comfortably seat all the players.
Nor have there been wanting learned exegetists who have opined that the whale mentioned in the book of Jonah merely meant a life-preserver-an inflated bag of wind-which the endangered prophet swam to, and so was saved from a watery doom.
Poor Sag-Harbor, therefore, seems worsted all round.
But he had still another reason for his want of faith.
How is that? But was there no other way for the whale to land the prophet within that short distance of Nineveh?
He might have carried him round by the way of the Cape of Good Hope.
I say it only shows his foolish, impious pride, and abominable, devilish rebellion against the reverend clergy.
For by a Portuguese Catholic priest, this very idea of Jonah's going to Nineveh via the Cape of Good Hope was advanced as a signal magnification of the general miracle.
He seemed to be working in obedience to some particular presentiment.
By great exertion, Tashtego at last succeeded in planting one iron; but the stricken whale, without at all sounding, still continued his horizontal flight, with added fleetness.
Such unintermitted strainings upon the planted iron must sooner or later inevitably extract it.
It became imperative to lance the flying whale, or be content to lose him.
But to haul the boat up to his flank was impossible, he swam so fast and furious.
What then remained? Of all the wondrous devices and dexterities, the sleights of hand and countless subtleties, to which the veteran whaleman is so often forced, none exceed that fine manoeuvre with the lance called pitchpoling.
Steel and wood included, the entire spear is some ten or twelve feet in length; the staff is much slighter than that of the harpoon, and also of a lighter material-pine.
Look at him; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat; wrapt in fleecy foam, the towing whale is forty feet ahead.
He minds you somewhat of a juggler, balancing a long staff on his chin.
Next moment with a rapid, nameless impulse, in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance, and quivers in the life spot of the whale.
Instead of sparkling water, he now spouts red blood. "That drove the spigot out of him!" cries Stubb.
Tis July's immortal Fourth; all fountains must run wine to-day!
Would now, it were old Orleans whiskey, or old Ohio, or unspeakable old Monongahela!
Then, Tashtego, lad, I'd have ye hold a canakin to the jet, and we'd drink round it!
But owing to his marked internal structure which gives him regular lungs, like a human being's, the whale can only live by inhaling the disengaged air in the open atmosphere.
Wherefore the necessity for his periodical visits to the upper world.
Assume it, and it follows that if all the blood in a man could be aerated with one breath, he might then seal up his nostrils and not fetch another for a considerable time.
That is to say, he would then live without breathing.
Between his ribs and on each side of his spine he is supplied with a remarkable involved Cretan labyrinth of vermicelli-like vessels, which vessels, when he quits the surface, are completely distended with oxygenated blood.
This is what I mean.
Now, if after he fetches a few breaths you alarm him, so that he sounds, he will be always dodging up again to make good his regular allowance of air.
And not till those seventy breaths are told, will he finally go down to stay out his full term below.
Remark, however, that in different individuals these rates are different; but in any one they are alike.
Now, why should the whale thus insist upon having his spoutings out, unless it be to replenish his reservoir of air, ere descending for good?
How obvious is it, too, that this necessity for the whale's rising exposes him to all the fatal hazards of the chase.
For not by hook or by net could this vast leviathan be caught, when sailing a thousand fathoms beneath the sunlight.
But owing to the mystery of the spout-whether it be water or whether it be vapor-no absolute certainty can as yet be arrived at on this head.
Sure it is, nevertheless, that the Sperm Whale has no proper olfactories.
But what does he want of them?
But then again, what has the whale to say? Seldom have I known any profound being that had anything to say to this world, unless forced to stammer out something by way of getting a living.
It is certain that the mouth indirectly communicates with the spouting canal; but it cannot be proved that this is for the purpose of discharging water through the spiracle.
Because the greatest necessity for so doing would seem to be, when in feeding he accidentally takes in water.
But the Sperm Whale's food is far beneath the surface, and there he cannot spout even if he would.
Speak out! You have seen him spout; then declare what the spout is; can you not tell water from air?
My dear sir, in this world it is not so easy to settle these plain things.
I have ever found your plain things the knottiest of all.
It will not do for him to be peering into it, and putting his face in it.
You cannot go with your pitcher to this fountain and fill it, and bring it away.
For even when coming into slight contact with the outer, vapory shreds of the jet, which will often happen, your skin will feverishly smart, from the acridness of the thing so touching it.
Another thing; I have heard it said, and I do not much doubt it, that if the jet is fairly spouted into your eyes, it will blind you.
The wisest thing the investigator can do then, it seems to me, is to let this deadly spout alone. Still, we can hypothesize, even if we cannot prove and establish.
My hypothesis is this: that the spout is nothing but mist.
He is both ponderous and profound.
And I am convinced that from the heads of all ponderous profound beings, such as Plato, Pyrrho, the Devil, Jupiter, Dante, and so on, there always goes up a certain semi-visible steam, while in the act of thinking deep thoughts.
While composing a little treatise on Eternity, I had the curiosity to place a mirror before me; and ere long saw reflected there, a curious involved worming and undulation in the atmosphere over my head.
And so, through all the thick mists of the dim doubts in my mind, divine intuitions now and then shoot, enkindling my fog with a heavenly ray.
And for this I thank God; for all have doubts; many deny; but doubts or denials, few along with them, have intuitions.
At the crotch or junction, these flukes slightly overlap, then sideways recede from each other like wings, leaving a wide vacancy between.
In no living thing are the lines of beauty more exquisitely defined than in the crescentic borders of these flukes.
The fibres in the upper and lower layers, are long and horizontal; those of the middle one, very short, and running crosswise between the outside layers.
This triune structure, as much as anything else, imparts power to the tail.
On the contrary, those motions derive their most appalling beauty from it.
Real strength never impairs beauty or harmony, but it often bestows it; and in everything imposingly beautiful, strength has much to do with the magic.
Take away the tied tendons that all over seem bursting from the marble in the carved Hercules, and its charm would be gone.
As devout Eckerman lifted the linen sheet from the naked corpse of Goethe, he was overwhelmed with the massive chest of the man, that seemed as a Roman triumphal arch.
When Angelo paints even God the Father in human form, mark what robustness is there.
Therein no fairy's arm can transcend it. Five great motions are peculiar to it.
In man or fish, wriggling is a sign of inferiority.
To the whale, his tail is the sole means of propulsion.
Scroll-wise coiled forwards beneath the body, and then rapidly sprung backwards, it is this which gives that singular darting, leaping motion to the monster when furiously swimming.
If it be made in the unobstructed air, especially if it descend to its mark, the stroke is then simply irresistible.
No ribs of man or boat can withstand it.
These submerged side blows are so often received in the fishery, that they are accounted mere child's play.
What tenderness there is in that preliminary touch! Had this tail any prehensile power, I should straightway bethink me of Darmonodes' elephant that so frequented the flower-market, and with low salutations presented nosegays to damsels, and then caressed their zones.
But still you see his power in his play.
The broad palms of his tail are flirted high into the air; then smiting the surface, the thunderous concussion resounds for miles.
Excepting the sublime _breach_-somewhere else to be described-this peaking of the whale's flukes is perhaps the grandest sight to be seen in all animated nature.
Out of the bottomless profundities the gigantic tail seems spasmodically snatching at the highest heaven.
So in dreams, have I seen majestic Satan thrusting forth his tormented colossal claw from the flame Baltic of Hell.
But in gazing at such scenes, it is all in all what mood you are in; if in the Dantean, the devils will occur to you; if in that of Isaiah, the archangels.
As it seemed to me at the time, such a grand embodiment of adoration of the gods was never beheld, even in Persia, the home of the fire worshippers.
As Ptolemy Philopater testified of the African elephant, I then testified of the whale, pronouncing him the most devout of all beings.
For as the mightiest elephant is but a terrier to Leviathan, so, compared with Leviathan's tail, his trunk is but the stalk of a lily.
At times there are gestures in it, which, though they would well grace the hand of man, remain wholly inexplicable.
In an extensive herd, so remarkable, occasionally, are these mystic gestures, that I have heard hunters who have declared them akin to Free-Mason signs and symbols; that the whale, indeed, by these methods intelligently conversed with the world.
Nor are there wanting other motions of the whale in his general body, full of strangeness, and unaccountable to his most experienced assailant.
Dissect him how I may, then, I but go skin deep; I know him not, and never will.
But if I know not even the tail of this whale, how understand his head? much more, how comprehend his face, when face he has none?
This rampart is pierced by several sally-ports for the convenience of ships and whales; conspicuous among which are the straits of Sunda and Malacca.
The shores of the Straits of Sunda are unsupplied with those domineering fortresses which guard the entrances to the Mediterranean, the Baltic, and the Propontis.
Surely, he will stop for water.
For a long time, now, the circus-running sun has raced within his fiery ring, and needs no sustenance but what's in himself.
Mark this, too, in the whaler.
While other hulls are loaded down with alien stuff, to be transferred to foreign wharves; the world-wandering whale-ship carries no cargo but herself and crew, their weapons and their wants.
She has a whole lake's contents bottled in her ample hold.
She is ballasted with utilities; not altogether with unusable pig-lead and kentledge.
She carries years' water in her.
Clear old prime Nantucket water; which, when three years afloat, the Nantucketer, in the Pacific, prefers to drink before the brackish fluid, but yesterday rafted off in casks, from the Peruvian or Indian streams.
But though the green palmy cliffs of the land soon loomed on the starboard bow, and with delighted nostrils the fresh cinnamon was snuffed in the air, yet not a single jet was descried.
If the wind only held, little doubt had they, that chased through these Straits of Sunda, the vast host would only deploy into the Oriental seas to witness the capture of not a few of their number.
And who could tell whether, in that congregated caravan, Moby Dick himself might not temporarily be swimming, like the worshipped white-elephant in the coronation procession of the Siamese!
It seemed formed of detached white vapors, rising and falling something like the spouts of the whales; only they did not so completely come and go; for they constantly hovered, without finally disappearing.
As with glass under arm, Ahab to-and-fro paced the deck; in his forward turn beholding the monsters he chased, and in the after one the bloodthirsty pirates chasing _him;_ some such fancy as the above seemed his.
But still driving on in the wake of the whales, at length they seemed abating their speed; gradually the ship neared them; and the wind now dying away, word was passed to spring to the boats.
The compact martial columns in which they had been hitherto rapidly and steadily swimming, were now broken up in one measureless rout; and like King Porus' elephants in the Indian battle with Alexander, they seemed going mad with consternation.
In all directions expanding in vast irregular circles, and aimlessly swimming hither and thither, by their short thick spoutings, they plainly betrayed their distraction of panic.
This was still more strangely evinced by those of their number, who, completely paralysed as it were, helplessly floated like water-logged dismantled ships on the sea.
Had these leviathans been but a flock of simple sheep, pursued over the pasture by three fierce wolves, they could not possibly have evinced such excessive dismay.
But this occasional timidity is characteristic of almost all herding creatures.
Though banding together in tens of thousands, the lion-maned buffaloes of the West have fled before a solitary horseman.
Witness, too, all human beings, how when herded together in the sheepfold of a theatre's pit, they will, at the slightest alarm of fire, rush helter-skelter for the outlets, crowding, trampling, jamming, and remorselessly dashing each other to death.
As is customary in those cases, the boats at once separated, each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal.
In about three minutes' time, Queequeg's harpoon was flung; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces, and then running away with us like light, steered straight for the heart of the herd.
Nor were the oarsmen quite idle, though their wonted duty was now altogether dispensed with.
They chiefly attended to the shouting part of the business.
Out of the way, Commodore!" cried one, to a great dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to the surface, and for an instant threatened to swamp us.
Hard down with your tail, there!" cried a second to another, which, close to our gunwale, seemed calmly cooling himself with his own fan-like extremity. All whaleboats carry certain curious contrivances, originally invented by the Nantucket Indians, called druggs.
It is chiefly among gallied whales that this drugg is used.
For then, more whales are close round you than you can possibly chase at one time.
But sperm whales are not every day encountered; while you may, then, you must kill all you can.
The first and second were successfully darted, and we saw the whales staggeringly running off, fettered by the enormous sidelong resistance of the towing drugg. They were cramped like malefactors with the chain and ball.
Here the storms in the roaring glens between the outermost whales, were heard but not felt.
Owing to the density of the crowd of reposing whales, more immediately surrounding the embayed axis of the herd, no possible chance of escape was at present afforded us.
We must watch for a breach in the living wall that hemmed us in; the wall that had only admitted us in order to shut us up.
At any rate-though indeed such a test at such a time might be deceptive-spoutings might be discovered from our low boat that seemed playing up almost from the rim of the horizon.
Like household dogs they came snuffling round us, right up to our gunwales, and touching them; till it almost seemed that some spell had suddenly domesticated them.
For, suspended in those watery vaults, floated the forms of the nursing mothers of the whales, and those that by their enormous girth seemed shortly to become mothers.
The delicate side-fins, and the palms of his flukes, still freshly retained the plaited crumpled appearance of a baby's ears newly arrived from foreign parts. "Line! line!" cried Queequeg, looking over the gunwale; "him fast! him fast!-Who line him!
Not seldom in the rapid vicissitudes of the chase, this natural line, with the maternal end loose, becomes entangled with the hempen one, so that the cub is thereby trapped.
Some of the subtlest secrets of the seas seemed divulged to us in this enchanted pond.
When by chance these precious parts in a nursing whale are cut by the hunter's lance, the mother's pouring milk and blood rivallingly discolor the sea for rods.
But the sight of the enraged drugged whales now and then blindly darting to and fro across the circles, was nothing to what at last met our eyes.
It is sometimes the custom when fast to a whale more than commonly powerful and alert, to seek to hamstring him, as it were, by sundering or maiming his gigantic tail-tendon.
Yes, the long calm was departing.
Instantly Starbuck and Queequeg changed places; Starbuck taking the stern. "Oars!
Oars!" he intensely whispered, seizing the helm-"gripe your oars, and clutch your souls, now!
My God, men, stand by!
Shove him off, you Queequeg-the whale there!-prick him!-hit him!
Stand up-stand up, and stay so!
Spring, men-pull, men; never mind their backs-scrape them!-scrape away!" The boat was now all but jammed between two vast black bulks, leaving a narrow Dardanelles between their long lengths.
Further pursuit was useless; but the boats still lingered in their wake to pick up what drugged whales might be dropped astern, and likewise to secure one which Flask had killed and waifed.
Of all the drugged whales only one was captured.
In truth, this gentleman is a luxurious Ottoman, swimming about over the watery world, surroundingly accompanied by all the solaces and endearments of the harem.
The contrast between this Ottoman and his concubines is striking; because, while he is always of the largest leviathanic proportions, the ladies, even at full growth, are not more than one third of the bulk of an average-sized male.
They are comparatively delicate, indeed; I dare say, not to exceed half a dozen yards round the waist.
Nevertheless, it cannot be denied, that upon the whole they are hereditarily entitled to _en bon point_. It is very curious to watch this harem and its lord in their indolent ramblings.
Like fashionables, they are for ever on the move in leisurely search of variety.
You meet them on the Line in time for the full flower of the Equatorial feeding season, having just returned, perhaps, from spending the summer in the Northern seas, and so cheating summer of all unpleasant weariness and warmth.
Should any unwarrantably pert young Leviathan coming that way, presume to draw confidentially close to one of the ladies, with what prodigious fury the Bashaw assails him, and chases him away!
As for the sons and the daughters they beget, why, those sons and daughters must take care of themselves; at least, with only the maternal help.
It is therefore not in strict character, however admirably satirical, that after going to school himself, he should then go abroad inculcating not what he learned there, but the folly of it.
Almost universally, a lone whale-as a solitary Leviathan is called-proves an ancient one.
Say you strike a Forty-barrel-bull-poor devil! all his comrades quit him.
It was decreed by the States-General in A.
But though no other nation has ever had any written whaling law, yet the American fishermen have been their own legislators and lawyers in this matter.
They have provided a system which for terse comprehensiveness surpasses Justinian's Pandects and the By-laws of the Chinese Society for the Suppression of Meddling with other People's Business.
Yes; these laws might be engraven on a Queen Anne's farthing, or the barb of a harpoon, and worn round the neck, so small are they. I.
A Fast-Fish belongs to the party fast to it. II.
True, among the more upright and honorable whalemen allowances are always made for peculiar cases, where it would be an outrageous moral injustice for one party to claim possession of a whale previously chased or killed by another party.
Ultimately the defendants (the crew of another ship) came up with the whale, struck, killed, seized, and finally appropriated it before the very eyes of the plaintiffs.
Wherefore the plaintiffs now sued for the recovery of the value of their whale, line, harpoons, and boat. Mr. Erskine was counsel for the defendants; Lord Ellenborough was the judge.
Now the defendants afterwards took the fish; ergo, the aforesaid articles were theirs. A common man looking at this decision of the very learned Judge, might possibly object to it.
But often possession is the whole of the law.
What are the sinews and souls of Russian serfs and Republican slaves but Fast-Fish, whereof possession is the whole of the law?
What to the rapacious landlord is the widow's last mite but a Fast-Fish?
What are the Duke of Dunder's hereditary towns and hamlets but Fast-Fish?
What to that redoubted harpooneer, John Bull, is poor Ireland, but a Fast-Fish?
What to that apostolic lancer, Brother Jonathan, is Texas but a Fast-Fish?
And concerning all these, is not Possession the whole of the law? But if the doctrine of Fast-Fish be pretty generally applicable, the kindred doctrine of Loose-Fish is still more widely so.
That is internationally and universally applicable. What was America in 1492 but a Loose-Fish, in which Columbus struck the Spanish standard by way of waifing it for his royal master and mistress?
What was Poland to the Czar?
What Greece to the Turk?
What at last will Mexico be to the United States?
All Loose-Fish. What are the Rights of Man and the Liberties of the World but Loose-Fish?
What all men's minds and opinions but Loose-Fish?
What is the principle of religious belief in them but a Loose-Fish?
What to the ostentatious smuggling verbalists are the thoughts of thinkers but Loose-Fish?
What is the great globe itself but a Loose-Fish?
And what are you, reader, but a Loose-Fish and a Fast-Fish, too? CHAPTER XC. HEADS OR TAILS. "De balena vero sufficit, si rex habeat caput, et regina caudam." _Bracton, l.
A division which, in the whale, is much like halving an apple; there is no intermediate remainder.
By some writers this office is called a sinecure.
I seize it as the Lord Warden's.
Upon this the poor mariners in their respectful consternation-so truly English-knowing not what to say, fall to vigorously scratching their heads all round; meanwhile ruefully glancing from the whale to the stranger.
But that did in nowise mend the matter, or at all soften the hard heart of the learned gentleman with the copy of Blackstone.
We must needs inquire then on what principle the Sovereign is originally invested with that right.
The law itself has already been set forth.
But Plowdon gives us the reason for it.
Says Plowdon, the whale so caught belongs to the King and Queen, "because of its superior excellence.
And by the soundest commentators this has ever been held a cogent argument in such matters. But why should the King have the head, and the Queen the tail?
A reason for that, ye lawyers! In his treatise on "Queen-Gold," or Queen-pinmoney, an old King's Bench author, one William Prynne, thus discourseth: "Ye tail is ye Queen's, that ye Queen's wardrobe may be supplied with ye whalebone.
Now this was written at a time when the black limber bone of the Greenland or Right whale was largely used in ladies' bodices.
But this same bone is not in the tail; it is in the head, which is a sad mistake for a sagacious lawyer like Prynne.
But is the Queen a mermaid, to be presented with a tail?
And thus there seems a reason in all things, even in law. CHAPTER XCI. THE PEQUOD MEETS THE ROSE-BUD. "In vain it was to rake for Ambergriese in the paunch of this Leviathan, insufferable fetor denying not inquiry." _Sir T.
A peculiar and not very pleasant smell was smelt in the sea. "I will bet something now," said Stubb, "that somewhere hereabouts are some of those drugged whales we tickled the other day.
I thought they would keel up before long." Presently, the vapors in advance slid aside; and there in the distance lay a ship, whose furled sails betokened that some sort of whale must be alongside.
It may well be conceived, what an unsavory odor such a mass must exhale; worse than an Assyrian city in the plague, when the living are incompetent to bury the departed.
So intolerable indeed is it regarded by some, that no cupidity could persuade them to moor alongside of it.
In truth, it turned out to be one of those problematical whales that seem to dry up and die with a sort of prodigious dyspepsia, or indigestion; leaving their defunct bodies almost entirely bankrupt of anything like oil.
I say, pass round a hat, some one, and let's make him a present of a little oil for dear charity's sake.
For what oil he'll get from that drugged whale there, wouldn't be fit to burn in a jail; no, not in a condemned cell.
I wonder now if our old man has thought of that.
Issuing from the cabin, Stubb now called his boat's crew, and pulled off for the stranger.
Broke it?" "I wish it was broken, or that I didn't have any nose at all!" answered the Guernsey-man, who did not seem to relish the job he was at very much.
But what are you holding _yours_ for?" "Oh, nothing!
It's a wax nose; I have to hold it on.
But joking aside, though; do you know, Rose-bud, that it's all nonsense trying to get any oil out of such whales?
As for that dried up one, there, he hasn't a gill in his whole carcase." "I know that well enough; but, d'ye see, the Captain here won't believe it; this is his first voyage; he was a Cologne manufacturer before.
There a queer scene presented itself.
The sailors, in tasselled caps of red worsted, were getting the heavy tackles in readiness for the whales.
But they worked rather slow and talked very fast, and seemed in anything but a good humor.
All their noses upwardly projected from their faces like so many jib-booms.
Now and then pairs of them would drop their work, and run up to the mast-head to get some fresh air.
Some thinking they would catch the plague, dipped oakum in coal-tar, and at intervals held it to their nostrils.
He was a small and dark, but rather delicate looking man for a sea-captain, with large whiskers and moustache, however; and wore a red cotton velvet vest with watch-seals at his side.
Whereupon Stubb quickly pulled to the floating body, and hailing the Pequod to give notice of his intentions, at once proceeded to reap the fruit of his unrighteous cunning.
Seizing his sharp boat-spade, he commenced an excavation in the body, a little behind the side fin.
You would almost have thought he was digging a cellar there in the sea; and when at length his spade struck against the gaunt ribs, it was like turning up old Roman tiles and pottery buried in fat English loam.
His boat's crew were all in high excitement, eagerly helping their chief, and looking as anxious as gold-hunters. And all the time numberless fowls were diving, and ducking, and screaming, and yelling, and fighting around them.
You might easily dent it with your thumb; it is of a hue between yellow and ash color.
For at that time, and indeed until a comparatively late day, the precise origin of ambergris remained, like amber itself, a problem to the learned.
Though the word ambergris is but the French compound for grey amber, yet the two substances are quite distinct.
By some, ambergris is supposed to be the cause, and by others the effect, of the dyspepsia in the whale.
Bethink thee of that saying of St. Paul in Corinthians, about corruption and incorruption; how that we are sown in dishonor, but raised in glory.
And likewise call to mind that saying of Paracelsus about what it is that maketh the best musk.
Elsewhere in this volume the slanderous aspersion has been disproved, that the vocation of whaling is throughout a slatternly, untidy business.
But there is another thing to rebut.
They hint that all whales always smell bad.
Now how did this odious stigma originate? I opine, that it is plainly traceable to the first arrival of the Greenland whaling ships in London, more than two centuries ago.
It was a collection of furnaces, fat-kettles, and oil sheds; and when the works were in full operation certainly gave forth no very pleasant savor.
Nor indeed can the whale possibly be otherwise than fragrant, when, as a general thing, he enjoys such high health; taking abundance of exercise; always out of doors; though, it is true, seldom in the open air.
I say, that the motion of a Sperm Whale's flukes above water dispenses a perfume, as when a musk-scented lady rustles her dress in a warm parlor.
What then shall I liken the Sperm Whale to for fragrance, considering his magnitude?
As a general thing, these ship-keepers are as hardy fellows as the men comprising the boats' crews.
But if there happen to be an unduly slender, clumsy, or timorous wight in the ship, that wight is certain to be made a ship-keeper.
It was so in the Pequod with the little negro Pippin by nick-name, Pip by abbreviation.
For blacks, the year's calendar should show naught but three hundred and sixty-five Fourth of Julys and New Year's Days.
Nor smile so, while I write that this little black was brilliant, for even blackness has its brilliancy; behold yon lustrous ebony, panelled in king's cabinets.
Then come out those fiery effulgences, infernally superb; then the evil-blazing diamond, once the divinest symbol of the crystal skies, looks like some crown-jewel stolen from the King of Hell.
He was full of the fire of the hunt.
He hated Pip for a poltroon.
Snatching the boat-knife from its sheath, he suspended its sharp edge over the line, and turning towards Stubb, exclaimed interrogatively, Cut?
Meantime Pip's blue, choked face plainly looked, Do, for God's sake!
All passed in a flash.
Tranquilly permitting these irregular cursings to evaporate, Stubb then in a plain, business-like, but still half humorous manner, cursed Pip officially; and that done, unofficially gave him much wholesome advice.
The substance was, Never jump from a boat, Pip, except-but all the rest was indefinite, as the soundest advice ever is.
Now, in general, _Stick to the boat_, is your true motto in whaling; but cases will sometimes happen when _Leap from the boat_, is still better.
We can't afford to lose whales by the likes of you; a whale would sell for thirty times what you would, Pip, in Alabama.
Bear that in mind, and don't jump any more.
Hereby perhaps Stubb indirectly hinted, that though man loved his fellow, yet man is a money-making animal, which propensity too often interferes with his benevolence. But we are all in the hands of the Gods; and Pip jumped again.
It was under very similar circumstances to the first performance; but this time he did not breast out the line; and hence, when the whale started to run, Pip was left behind on the sea, like a hurried traveller's trunk.
Stubb was but too true to his word.
It was a beautiful, bounteous, blue day; the spangled sea calm and cool, and flatly stretching away, all round, to the horizon, like gold-beater's skin hammered out to the extremest.
Bobbing up and down in that sea, Pip's ebon head showed like a head of cloves.
No boat-knife was lifted when he fell so rapidly astern.
Stubb's inexorable back was turned upon him; and the whale was winged.
In three minutes, a whole mile of shoreless ocean was between Pip and Stubb.
But the awful lonesomeness is intolerable.
The intense concentration of self in the middle of such a heartless immensity, my God! who can tell it?
Mark, how when sailors in a dead calm bathe in the open sea-mark how closely they hug their ship and only coast along her sides. But had Stubb really abandoned the poor little negro to his fate?
No; he did not mean to, at least.
By the merest chance the ship itself at last rescued him; but from that hour the little negro went about the deck an idiot; such, at least, they said he was.
The sea had jeeringly kept his finite body up, but drowned the infinite of his soul.
He saw God's foot upon the treadle of the loom, and spoke it; and therefore his shipmates called him mad.
It was our business to squeeze these lumps back into fluid.
A sweet and unctuous duty!
No wonder that in old times this sperm was such a favorite cosmetic.
Such a clearer! such a sweetener! such a softener! such a delicious mollifier!
Come; let us squeeze hands all round; nay, let us all squeeze ourselves into each other; let us squeeze ourselves universally into the very milk and sperm of kindness. Would that I could keep squeezing that sperm for ever!
After being severed from the whale, the white-horse is first cut into portable oblongs ere going to the mincer.
As its name imports, it is of an exceedingly rich, mottled tint, with a bestreaked snowy and golden ground, dotted with spots of the deepest crimson and purple.
It is plums of rubies, in pictures of citron.
Spite of reason, it is hard to keep yourself from eating it.
I confess, that once I stole behind the foremast to try it.
It designates the dark, glutinous substance which is scraped off the back of the Greenland or right whale, and much of which covers the decks of those inferior souls who hunt that ignoble Leviathan. Nippers.
Strictly this word is not indigenous to the whale's vocabulary.
But as applied by whalemen, it becomes so.
A whaleman's nipper is a short firm strip of tendinous stuff cut from the tapering part of Leviathan's tail: it averages an inch in thickness, and for the rest, is about the size of the iron part of a hoe.
This place has previously been mentioned as the receptacle for the blanket-pieces, when stript and hoisted from the whale.
When the proper time arrives for cutting up its contents, this apartment is a scene of terror to all tyros, especially by night.
On one side, lit by a dull lantern, a space has been left clear for the workmen. They generally go in pairs,-a pike-and-gaff-man and a spade-man. The whaling-pike is similar to a frigate's boarding-weapon of the same name.
The gaff is something like a boat-hook.
With his gaff, the gaffman hooks on to a sheet of blubber, and strives to hold it from slipping, as the ship pitches and lurches about.
Meanwhile, the spade-man stands on the sheet itself, perpendicularly chopping it into the portable horse-pieces.
This spade is sharp as hone can make it; the spademan's feet are shoeless; the thing he stands on will sometimes irresistibly slide away from him, like a sledge.
If he cuts off one of his own toes, or one of his assistants', would you be very much astonished?
And an idol, indeed, it is; or, rather, in old times, its likeness was.
Extending it upon the forecastle deck, he now proceeds cylindrically to remove its dark pelt, as an African hunter the pelt of a boa.
This done he turns the pelt inside out, like a pantaloon leg; gives it a good stretching, so as almost to double its diameter; and at last hangs it, well spread, in the rigging, to dry.
Ere long, it is taken down; when removing some three feet of it, towards the pointed extremity, and then cutting two slits for arm-holes at the other end, he lengthwise slips himself bodily into it.
The mincer now stands before you invested in the full canonicals of his calling.
Arrayed in decent black; occupying a conspicuous pulpit; intent on bible leaves; what a candidate for an archbishoprick, what a lad for a Pope were this mincer![20] [20] Bible leaves!
This is the invariable cry from the mates to the mincer.
She presents the curious anomaly of the most solid masonry joining with oak and hemp in constituting the completed ship.
It is as if from the open field a brick-kiln were transported to her planks. The try-works are planted between the foremast and main-mast, the most roomy part of the deck.
On the flanks it is cased with wood, and at top completely covered by a large, sloping, battened hatchway.
Removing this hatch we expose the great try-pots, two in number, and each of several barrels' capacity.
When not in use, they are kept remarkably clean.
Sometimes they are polished with soapstone and sand, till they shine within like silver punch-bowls.
During the night-watches some cynical old sailors will crawl into them and coil themselves away there for a nap.
While employed in polishing them-one man in each pot, side by side-many confidential communications are carried on, over the iron lips.
It is a place also for profound mathematical meditation.
These mouths are fitted with heavy doors of iron.
The intense heat of the fire is prevented from communicating itself to the deck, by means of a shallow reservoir extending under the entire inclosed surface of the works.
By a tunnel inserted at the rear, this reservoir is kept replenished with water as fast as it evaporates.
There are no external chimneys; they open direct from the rear wall.
And here let us go back for a moment. It was about nine o'clock at night that the Pequod's try-works were first started on this present voyage.
It belonged to Stubb to oversee the business. "All ready there?
Off hatch, then, and start her.
You cook, fire the works.
This was an easy thing, for the carpenter had been thrusting his shavings into the furnace throughout the passage.
Here be it said that in a whaling voyage the first fire in the try-works has to be fed for a time with wood.
After that no wood is used, except as a means of quick ignition to the staple fuel.
In a word, after being tried out, the crisp, shrivelled blubber, now called scraps or fritters, still contains considerable of its unctuous properties.
These fritters feed the flames.
Like a plethoric burning martyr, or a self-consuming misanthrope, once ignited, the whale supplies his own fuel and burns by his own body.
Would that he consumed his own smoke! for his smoke is horrible to inhale, and inhale it you must, and not only that, but you must live in it for the time.
It has an unspeakable, wild, Hindoo odor about it, such as may lurk in the vicinity of funereal pyres.
It smells like the left wing of the day of judgment; it is an argument for the pit. By midnight the works were in full operation.
We were clear from the carcase; sail had been made; the wind was freshening; the wild ocean darkness was intense.
But that darkness was licked up by the fierce flames, which at intervals forked forth from the sooty flues, and illuminated every lofty rope in the rigging, as with the famed Greek fire.
The burning ship drove on, as if remorselessly commissioned to some vengeful deed.
Standing on this were the Tartarean shapes of the pagan harpooneers, always the whale-ship's stokers.
With huge pronged poles they pitched hissing masses of blubber into the scalding pots, or stirred up the fires beneath, till the snaky flames darted, curling, out of the doors to catch them by the feet.
The smoke rolled away in sullen heaps.
This served for a sea-sofa.
Here lounged the watch, when not otherwise employed, looking into the red heat of the fire, till their eyes felt scorched in their heads.
Their tawny features, now all begrimed with smoke and sweat, their matted beards, and the contrasting barbaric brilliancy of their teeth, all these were strangely revealed in the capricious emblazonings of the works.
Wrapped, for that interval, in darkness myself, I but the better saw the redness, the madness, the ghastliness of others.
Starting from a brief standing sleep, I was horribly conscious of something fatally wrong.
But, spite of all this, I could see no compass before me to steer by; though it seemed but a minute since I had been watching the card, by the steady binnacle lamp illuminating it.
Nothing seemed before me but a jet gloom, now and then made ghastly by flashes of redness.
Uppermost was the impression, that whatever swift, rushing thing I stood on was not so much bound to any haven ahead as rushing from all havens astern.
A stark, bewildered feeling, as of death, came over me.
Convulsively my hands grasped the tiller, but with the crazy conceit that the tiller was, somehow, in some enchanted way, inverted.
My God! what is the matter with me? thought I.
Lo! in my brief sleep I had turned myself about, and was fronting the ship's stern, with my back to her prow and the compass.
In an instant I faced back, just in time to prevent the vessel from flying up into the wind, and very probably capsizing her.
How glad and how grateful the relief from this unnatural hallucination of the night, and the fatal contingency of being brought by the lee! Look not too long in the face of the fire, O man!
Never dream with thy hand on the helm!
Turn not thy back to the compass; accept the first hint of the hitching tiller; believe not the artificial fire, when its redness makes all things look ghastly.
The sun hides not the ocean, which is the dark side of this earth, and which is two thirds of this earth.
So, therefore, that mortal man who hath more of joy than sorrow in him, that mortal man cannot be true-not true, or undeveloped.
The truest of all men was the Man of Sorrows, and the truest of all books is Solomon's, and Ecclesiastes is the fine hammered steel of woe.
This wilful world hath not got hold of unchristian Solomon's wisdom yet.
Give not thyself up, then, to fire, lest it invert thee, deaden thee; as for the time it did me.
There is a wisdom that is woe; but there is a woe that is madness.
And there is a Catskill eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into the blackest gorges, and soar out of them again and become invisible in the sunny spaces.
There they lay in their triangular oaken vaults, each mariner a chiselled muteness; a score of lamps flashing upon his hooded eyes. In merchantmen, oil for the sailor is more scarce than the milk of queens.
To dress in the dark, and eat in the dark, and stumble in darkness to his pallet, this is his usual lot.
But the whaleman, as he seeks the food of light, so he lives in light.
He burns, too, the purest of oil, in its unmanufactured, and, therefore, unvitiated state; a fluid unknown to solar, lunar, or astral contrivances ashore.
It is sweet as early grass butter in April.
This done, the hatches are replaced, and hermetically closed, like a closet walled up. In the sperm fishery, this is perhaps one of the most remarkable incidents in all the business of whaling.
The unmanufactured sperm oil possesses a singularly cleansing virtue.
This is the reason why the decks never look so white as just after what they call an affair of oil.
Besides, from the ashes of the burned scraps of the whale, a potent ley is readily made; and whenever any adhesiveness from the back of the whale remains clinging to the side, that ley quickly exterminates it.
Hands go diligently along the bulwarks, and with buckets of water and rags restore them to their full tidiness.
The soot is brushed from the lower rigging.
To hint to such musked mariners of oil, and bone, and blubber, were little short of audacity.
Oh! my friends, but this is man-killing!
And though now nailed amidst all the rustiness of iron bolts and the verdigris of copper spikes, yet, untouchable and immaculate to any foulness, it still preserved its Quito glow.
For it was set apart and sanctified to one awe-striking end; and however wanton in their sailor ways, one and all, the mariners revered it as the white whale's talisman.
On its round border it bore the letters, REPUBLICA DEL ECUADOR: QUITO.
Great pains, small gains for those who ask the world to solve them; it cannot solve itself.
Methinks now this coined sun wears a ruddy face; but see! aye, he enters the sign of storms, the equinox! and but six months before he wheeled out of a former equinox at Aries!
Born in throes, 'tis fit that man should live in pains and die in pangs!
Here's stout stuff for woe to work on.
So be it, then." "No fairy fingers can have pressed the gold, but devil's claws must have left their mouldings there since yesterday," murmured Starbuck to himself, leaning against the bulwarks.
The old man seems to read Belshazzar's awful writing.
I have never marked the coin inspectingly. He goes below; let me read.
A dark valley between three mighty, heaven-abiding peaks, that almost seem the Trinity, in some faint earthly symbol.
So in this vale of Death, God girds us round; and over all our gloom, the sun of Righteousness still shines a beacon and a hope.
If we bend down our eyes, the dark vale shows her mouldy soil; but if we lift them, the bright sun meets our glance half way, to cheer.
Yet, oh, the great sun is no fixture; and if, at midnight, we would fain snatch some sweet solace from him, we gaze for him in vain! This coin speaks wisely, mildly, truly, but still sadly to me.
And all from looking at a piece of gold, which did I have it now on Negro Hill or in Corlaer's Hook, I'd not look at it very long ere spending it.
Humph! in my poor, insignificant opinion, I regard this as queer.
What then should there be in this doubloon of the Equator that is so killing wonderful?
By Golconda! let me read it once.
Halloa! here's signs and wonders truly!
That, now, is what old Bowditch in his Epitome calls the zodiac, and what my almanack below calls ditto.
I'll get the almanack and as I have heard devils can be raised with Daboll's arithmetic, I'll try my hand at raising a meaning out of these queer curvicues here with the Massachusetts calendar.
Signs and wonders; and the sun, he's always among 'em.
Hem, hem, hem; here they are-here they go-all alive:-Aries, or the Ram; Taurus, or the Bull and Jimimi! here's Gemini himself, or the Twins.
Well; the sun he wheels among 'em.
Aye, here on the coin he's just crossing the threshold between two of twelve sitting-rooms all in a ring.
Book! you lie there; the fact is, you books must know your places.
You'll do to give us the bare words and facts, but we come in to supply the thoughts.
That's my small experience, so far as the Massachusetts calendar, and Bowditch's navigator, and Daboll's arithmetic go.
Pity if there is nothing wonderful in signs, and significant in wonders! There's a clue somewhere; wait a bit; hist-hark!
By Jove, I have it! Look you, Doubloon, your zodiac here is the life of man in one round chapter; and now I'll read it off, straight out of the book.
Oh, jolly's the word for aye!
Adieu, Doubloon! But stop; here comes little King-Post; dodge round the try-works, now, and let's hear what he'll have to say.
There; he's before it; he'll out with something presently.
So, so; he's beginning." "I see nothing here, but a round thing made of gold, and whoever raises a certain whale, this round thing belongs to him.
So, what's all this staring been about?
It is worth sixteen dollars, that's true; and at two cents the cigar, that's nine hundred and sixty cigars.
Hark! he's muttering-voice like an old worn-out coffee-mill.
Prick ears, and listen!" "If the White Whale be raised, it must be in a month and a day, when the sun stands in some one of these signs.
I've studied signs, and know their marks; they were taught me two score years ago, by the old witch in Copenhagen.
Now, in what sign will the sun then be?
The horse-shoe sign; for there it is, right opposite the gold.
And what's the horse-shoe sign?
The lion is the horse-shoe sign-the roaring and devouring lion.
Ship, old ship! my old head shakes to think of thee." "There's another rendering now; but still one text.
All sorts of men in one kind of world, you see.
Dodge again! here comes Queequeg-all tattooing-looks like the signs of the Zodiac himself.
No: he don't know what to make of the doubloon; he takes it for an old button off some king's trowsers.
But, aside again! here comes that ghost-devil, Fedallah; tail coiled out of sight as usual, oakum in the toes of his pumps as usual. What does he say, with that look of his?
Ah, only makes a sign to the sign and bows himself; there is a sun on the coin-fire worshipper, depend upon it.
This way comes Pip-poor boy! would he had died, or I; he's half horrible to me.
He too has been watching all of these interpreters-myself included-and look now, he comes to read, with that unearthly idiot face.
Stand away again and hear him. Hark!" "I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look." "Upon my soul, he's been studying Murray's Grammar!
Improving his mind, poor fellow!
Caw! caw! caw! caw! caw! caw!
There he stands; two bones stuck into a pair of old trowsers, and two more poked into the sleeves of an old jacket." "Wonder if he means me?-complimentary!-poor lad!-I could go hang myself.
Any way, for the present, I'll quit Pip's vicinity.
I can stand the rest, for they have plain wits; but he's too crazy-witty for my sanity.
So, so, I leave him muttering." "Here's the ship's navel, this doubloon here, and they are all on fire to unscrew it.
But, unscrew your navel, and what's the consequence? Then again, if it stays here, that is ugly, too, for when aught's nailed to the mast it's a sign that things grow desperate.
Ha, ha! old Ahab! the White Whale; he'll nail ye!
This is a pine tree.
My father, in old Tolland county, cut down a pine tree once, and found a silver ring grown over in it; some old darkey's wedding ring.
How did it get there?
And so they'll say in the resurrection, when they come to fish up this old mast, and find a doubloon lodged in it, with bedded oysters for the shaggy bark.
Oh, the gold! the precious, precious gold!-the green miser 'll hoard ye soon!
God goes 'mong the worlds blackberrying.
Cook! ho, cook! and cook us!
Jenny! hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Jenny, Jenny! and get your hoe-cake done!" CHAPTER C.
LEG AND ARM. THE PEQUOD, OF NANTUCKET, MEETS THE SAMUEL ENDERBY, OF LONDON. "Ship, ahoy!
Hast seen the White Whale?" So cried Ahab, once more hailing a ship showing English colors, bearing down under the stern.
Trumpet to mouth, the old man was standing in his hoisted quarter-boat, his ivory leg plainly revealed to the stranger captain, who was carelessly reclining in his own boat's bow.
But here a curious difficulty presented itself.
But this awkwardness only lasted a minute, because the strange captain, observing at a glance how affairs stood, cried out, "I see, I see!-avast heaving there!
Soon he was carefully swung inside the high bulwarks, and gently landed upon the capstan head.
To escape his terrible flailings, I seized hold of my harpoon-pole sticking in him, and for a moment clung to that like a sucking fish.
Now, Bunger boy, spin your part of the yarn." The professional gentleman thus familiarly pointed out, had been all the time standing near them, with nothing specific visible, to denote his gentlemanly rank on board.
Oh, ye stars! he sat up with me indeed, and was very severe in my diet.
Oh! a great watcher, and very dietetically severe, is Dr. Bunger. (Bunger, you dog, laugh out! why don't ye?
I measured it with the lead line.
In short, it grew black; I knew what was threatened, and off it came.
He flies into diabolical passions sometimes.
Oh, you solemn rogue, you-you Bunger! was there ever such another Bunger in the watery world?
What should I do without this other arm?
And I'm thinking Moby Dick doesn't bite so much as he swallows." "Well, then," interrupted Bunger, "give him your left arm for bait to get the right.
And he knows it too.
So that what you take for the White Whale's malice is only his awkwardness.
No more White Whales for me; I've lowered for him once, and that has satisfied me.
There would be great glory in killing him, I know that; and there is a ship-load of precious sperm in him, but, hark ye, he's best let alone; don't you think so, Captain?"-glancing at the ivory leg. "He is.
But he will still be hunted, for all that.
What is best let alone, that accursed thing is not always what least allures.
How long since thou saw'st him last?
Commanded by a naval Post-Captain, the Rattler made a rattling voyage of it, and did some service; how much does not appear.
But this is not all.
I boarded her once at midnight somewhere off the Patagonian coast, and drank good flip down in the forecastle.
It was a fine gam we had, and they were all trumps-every soul on board.
A short life to them, and a jolly death.
Did I say we had flip?
They said it was bull-beef; others, that it was dromedary beef; but I do not know, for certain, how that was.
They had dumplings too; small, but substantial, symmetrically globular, and indestructible dumplings.
I fancied that you could feel them, and roll them about in you after they were swallowed.
If you stooped over too far forward, you risked their pitching out of you like billiard-balls.
The bread-but that couldn't be helped; besides, it was an anti-scorbutic; in short, the bread contained the only fresh fare they had.
But the forecastle was not very light, and it was very easy to step over into a dark corner when you ate it.
The abounding good cheer of these English whalers is matter for historical research.
For, as a general thing, the English merchant-ship scrimps her crew; but not so the English whaler.
The title was, "Dan Coopman," wherefore I concluded that this must be the invaluable memoirs of some Amsterdam cooper in the fishery, as every whale ship must carry its cooper.
I was reinforced in this opinion by seeing that it was the production of one "Fitz Swackhammer.
Friesland pork. 150,000 lbs. of stock fish. 550,000 lbs. of biscuit. 72,000 lbs. of soft bread. 2,800 firkins of butter. 20,000 lbs.
In the first place, the amount of butter, and Texel and Leyden cheese consumed, seems amazing.
Yet they did aim at them, and hit them too.
For, say they, when cruising in an empty ship, if you can get nothing better out of the world, get a good dinner out of it, at least.
How is it, that you, a mere oarsman in the fishery, pretend to know aught about the subterranean parts of the whale?
Did erudite Stubb, mounted upon your capstan, deliver lectures on the anatomy of the Cetacea; and by help of the windlass, hold up a specimen rib for exhibition?
Can you land a full-grown whale on your deck for examination, as a cook dishes a roast-pig?
In a ship I belonged to, a small cub Sperm Whale was once bodily hoisted to the deck for his poke or bag, to make sheaths for the barbs of the harpoons, and for the heads of the lances.
All the trees, with all their laden branches; all the shrubs, and ferns, and grasses; the message-carrying air; all these unceasingly were active.
Through the lacings of the leaves, the great sun seemed a flying shuttle weaving the unwearied verdure.
Oh, busy weaver! unseen weaver!-pause!-one word!-whither flows the fabric? what palace may it deck? wherefore all these ceaseless toilings?
Speak, weaver!-stay thy hand!-but one single word with thee!
Nay-the shuttle flies-the figures float from forth the loom; the freshet-rushing carpet for ever slides away.
For even so it is in all material factories.
The spoken words that are inaudible among the flying spindles; those same words are plainly heard without the walls, bursting from the opened casements.
Thereby have villanies been detected.
Yet, as the ever-woven verdant warp and woof intermixed and hummed around him, the mighty idler seemed the cunning weaver; himself all woven over with the vines; every month assuming greener, fresher verdure; but himself a skeleton.
But more I marvelled that the priests should swear that smoky jet of his was genuine.
To and fro I paced before this skeleton-brushed the vines aside-broke through the ribs-and with a ball of Arsacidean twine, wandered, eddied long amid its many winding, shaded colonnades and arbors.
But soon my line was out; and following it back, I emerged from the opening where I entered.
I saw no living thing within; naught was there but bones. Cutting me a green measuring-rod, I once more dived within the skeleton.
From their arrow-slit in the skull, the priests perceived me taking the altitude of the final rib.
How now!" they shouted; "Dar'st thou measure this our god!
Aye, priests-well, how long do ye make him, then?
But first, be it recorded, that, in this matter, I am not free to utter any fancied measurement I please.
Because there are skeleton authorities you can refer to, to test my accuracy.
There is a Leviathanic Museum, they tell me, in Hull, England, one of the whaling ports of that country, where they have some fine specimens of fin-backs and other whales.
Likewise, I have heard that in the museum of Manchester, in New Hampshire, they have what the proprietors call "the only perfect specimen of a Greenland or River Whale in the United States.
King Tranquo seizing his because he wanted it; and Sir Clifford, because he was lord of the seignories of those parts.
Sir Clifford's whale has been articulated throughout; so that, like a great chest of drawers, you can open and shut him, in all his bony cavities-spread out his ribs like a gigantic fan-and swing all day upon his lower jaw.
Locks are to be put upon some of his trap-doors and shutters; and a footman will show round future visitors with a bunch of keys at his side.
Of this seventy-two feet, his skull and jaw comprised some twenty feet, leaving some fifty feet of plain back-bone.
Attached to this back-bone, for something less than a third of its length, was the mighty circular basket of ribs which once enclosed his vitals.
From that part, the remaining ribs diminished, till the tenth and last only spanned five feet and some inches.
In general thickness, they all bore a seemly correspondence to their length.
The middle ribs were the most arched.
The largest of the Tranque ribs, one of the middle ones, occupied that part of the fish which, in life, is greatest in depth.
Now, the greatest depth of the invested body of this particular whale must have been at least sixteen feet; whereas, the corresponding rib measured but little more than eight feet.
So that this rib only conveyed half of the true notion of the living magnitude of that part.
Besides, for some way, where I now saw but a naked spine, all that had been once wrapped round with tons of added bulk in flesh, muscle, blood, and bowels.
No. Only in the heart of quickest perils; only when within the eddyings of his angry flukes; only on the profound unbounded sea, can the fully invested whale be truly and livingly found out. But the spine.
For that, the best way we can consider it is, with a crane, to pile its bones high up on end.
But now it's done, it looks much like Pompey's Pillar. There are forty and odd vertebrae in all, which in the skeleton are not locked together.
They mostly lie like the great knobbed blocks on a Gothic spire, forming solid courses of heavy masonry.
The largest, a middle one, is in width something less than three feet, and in depth more than four.
The smallest, where the spine tapers away into the tail, is only two inches in width, and looks something like a white billiard-ball.
I was told that there were still smaller ones, but they had been lost by some little cannibal urchins, the priest's children, who had stolen them to play marbles with.
Would you, you could not compress him.
By good rights he should only be treated of in imperial folio.
Having already described him in most of his present habitatory and anatomical peculiarities, it now remains to magnify him in an archaeological, fossiliferous, and antediluvian point of view.
Applied to any other creature than the Leviathan-to an ant or a flea-such portly terms might justly be deemed unwarrantably grandiloquent.
But when Leviathan is the text, the case is altered.
Fain am I to stagger to this emprise under the weightiest words of the dictionary.
How, then, with me, writing of this Leviathan?
Unconsciously my chirography expands into placard capitals.
Give me a condor's quill!
Give me Vesuvius' crater for an inkstand!
Such, and so magnifying, is the virtue of a large and liberal theme!
We expand to its bulk.
To produce a mighty book, you must choose a mighty theme.
The awe-stricken credulous slaves in the vicinity took it for the bones of one of the fallen angels.
The Alabama doctors declared it a huge reptile, and bestowed upon it the name of Basilosaurus.
But some specimen bones of it being taken across the sea to Owen, the English Anatomist, it turned out that this alleged reptile was a whale, though of a departed species.
A significant illustration of the fact, again and again repeated in this book, that the skeleton of the whale furnishes but little clue to the shape of his fully invested body.
Then the whole world was the whale's; and, king of creation, he left his wake along the present lines of the Andes and the Himmalehs.
Who can show a pedigree like Leviathan?
Ahab's harpoon had shed older blood than the Pharaoh's. Methuselah seems a school-boy.
The Common People imagine, that by a secret Power bestowed by God upon the Temple, no Whale can pass it without immediate death.
But the truth of the Matter is, that on either side of the Temple, there are Rocks that shoot two Miles into the Sea, and wound the Whales when they light upon 'em.
They keep a Whale's Rib of an incredible length for a Miracle, which lying upon the Ground with its convex part uppermost, makes an Arch, the Head of which cannot be reached by a Man upon a Camel's Back.
This Rib (says John Leo) is said to have layn there a hundred Years before I saw it.
Whereas, we have already seen, that the tape-measure gives seventy-two feet for the skeleton of a large sized modern whale.
For Pliny tells us of whales that embraced acres of living bulk, and Aldrovandus of others which measured eight hundred feet in length-Rope Walks and Thames Tunnels of Whales!
And this work was published so late as A.
1825. But will any whaleman believe these stories?
No. The whale of to-day is as big as his ancestors in Pliny's time.
Forty men in one ship hunting the Sperm Whale for forty-eight months think they have done extremely well, and thank God, if at last they carry home the oil of forty fish.
And equally fallacious seems the conceit, that because the so-called whale-bone whales no longer haunt many grounds in former years abounding with them, hence that species also is declining.
He swam the seas before the continents broke water; he once swam over the site of the Tuileries, and Windsor Castle, and the Kremlin.
He had lighted with such energy upon a thwart of his boat that his ivory leg had received a half-splintering shock.
Yea, more than equally, thought Ahab; since both the ancestry and posterity of Grief go further than the ancestry and posterity of Joy.
The ineffaceable, sad birth-mark in the brow of man, is but the stamp of sorrow in the signers. Unwittingly here a secret has been divulged, which perhaps might more properly, in set way, have been disclosed before.
But, in the end, it all came out; this one matter did, at least. That direful mishap was at the bottom of his temporary recluseness.
A lost land-bird of strange plumage strays on board, and is made a captive: out of clean shaved rods of right-whale bone, and cross-beams of sperm whale ivory, the carpenter makes a pagoda-looking cage for it.
An oarsman sprains his wrist: the carpenter concocts a soothing lotion.
Stubb longed for vermillion stars to be painted upon the blade of his every oar; screwing each oar in his big vice of wood, the carpenter symmetrically supplies the constellation.
A sailor takes a fancy to wear shark-bone ear-rings: the carpenter drills his ears.
He was a pure manipulator; his brain, if he had ever had one, must have early oozed along into the muscles of his fingers.
If he did not have a common soul in him, he had a subtle something that somehow anomalously did its duty.
What that was, whether essence of quicksilver, or a few drops of hartshorn, there is no telling.
But there it was; and there it had abided for now some sixty years or more.
Slabs of ivory, leather straps, pads, screws, and various tools of all sorts lying about the bench. Forward, the red flame of the forge is seen, where the blacksmith is at work._) Drat the file, and drat the bone!
That is hard which should be soft, and that is soft which should be hard.
So we go, who file old jaws and shinbones.
Aye, now, this works better (_sneezes_). Halloa, this bone dust is (_sneezes_)-why it's (_sneezes_)-yes it's (_sneezes_)-bless my soul, it won't let me speak!
This is what an old fellow gets now for working in dead lumber.
Saw a live tree, and you don't get this dust; amputate a live bone, and you don't get it (_sneezes_).
Time, time; if I but only had the time, I could turn him out as neat a leg now as ever (_sneezes_) scraped to a lady in a parlor.
Those buckskin legs and calves of legs I've seen in shop windows wouldn't compare at all.
They soak water, they do; and of course get rheumatic, and have to be doctored (_sneezes_) with washes and lotions, just like live legs.
There; before I saw it off, now, I must call his old Mogulship, and see whether the length will be all right; too short, if anything, I guess.
Ha! that's the heel; we are in luck; here he comes, or it's somebody else, that's certain. AHAB (_advancing_). (_During the ensuing scene, the carpenter continues sneezing at times._) Well, manmaker! Just in time, sir.
If the captain pleases, I will now mark the length. Let me measure, sir. Measured for a leg! good.
Well, it's not the first time.
About it! There; keep thy finger on it.
This is a cogent vice thou hast here, carpenter; let me feel its grip once.
So, so; it does pinch some. Oh, sir, it will break bones-beware, beware! No fear; I like a good grip; I like to feel something in this slippery world that can hold, man.
What's Prometheus about there?-the blacksmith, I mean-what's he about? He must be forging the buckle-screw, sir, now. Right.
It's a partnership; he supplies the muscle part.
He makes a fierce red flame there! Aye, sir; he must have the white heat for this kind of fine work. Um-m.
How the soot flies! This must be the remainder the Greek made the Africans of.
Carpenter, when he's through with that buckle, tell him to forge a pair of steel shoulder-blades; there's a pedlar aboard with a crushing pack. Sir? Hold; while Prometheus is about it, I'll order a complete man after a desirable pattern.
No, but put a sky-light on top of his head to illuminate inwards.
There, take the order, and away. Now, what's he speaking about, and who's he speaking to, I should like to know?
Shall I keep standing here? (_aside_). 'Tis but indifferent architecture to make a blind dome; here's one.
No, no, no; I must have a lantern. Ho, ho!
That's mud; we leave clay to ditchers, sir. The fellow's impious!
Canst thou not drive that old Adam away? Truly, sir, I begin to understand somewhat now.
Yes, I have heard something curious on that score, sir; how that a dismasted man never entirely loses the feeling of his old spar, but it will be still pricking him at times.
May I humbly ask if it be really so, sir? It is, man.
Look, put thy live leg here in the place where mine once was; so, now, here is only one distinct leg to the eye, yet two to the soul.
Where thou feelest tingling life; there, exactly there, there to a hair, do I.
Is't a riddle? I should humbly call it a poser, sir. Hist, then.
How dost thou know that some entire, living, thinking thing may not be invisibly and uninterpenetratingly standing precisely where thou now standest; aye, and standing there in thy spite?
In thy most solitary hours, then, dost thou not fear eavesdroppers?
And if I still feel the smart of my crushed leg, though it be now so long dissolved; then, why mayst not thou, carpenter, feel the fiery pains of hell for ever, and without a body?
Here I am, proud as Greek god, and yet standing debtor to this blockhead for a bone to stand on!
Cursed be that mortal inter-indebtedness which will not do away with ledgers.
I would be free as air; and I'm down in the whole world's books.
I am so rich, I could have given bid for bid with the wealthiest Praetorians at the auction of the Roman empire (which was the world's); and yet I owe for the flesh in the tongue I brag with.
I'll get a crucible, and into it, and dissolve myself down to one small, compendious vertebra.
So. CARPENTER (_resuming his work_). Well, well, well!
Yes, now that I think of it, here's his bedfellow! has a stick of whale's jaw-bone for a wife!
And this is his leg; he'll stand on this.
What was that now about one leg standing in three places, and all three places standing in one hell-how was that?
I don't wonder he looked so scornful at me!
And here's the heron's leg! long and slim, sure enough! Now, for most folks one pair of legs lasts a lifetime, and that must be because they use them mercifully, as a tender-hearted old lady uses her roly-poly old coach-horses.
But Ahab; oh he's a hard driver.
Look, driven one leg to death, and spavined the other for life, and now wears out bone legs by the cord.
What a leg this is!
It looks like a real live leg, filed down to nothing but the core; he'll be standing on this to-morrow; he'll be taking altitudes on it.
I almost forgot the little oval slate, smoothed ivory, where he figures up the latitude.
And so Starbuck found Ahab with a general chart of the oriental archipelagoes spread before him; and another separate one representing the long eastern coasts of the Japanese islands-Niphon, Matsmai, and Sikoke.
Begone!" "Captain Ahab mistakes; it is I.
The oil in the hold is leaking, sir. We must up Burtons and break out." "Up Burtons and break out?
Now that we are nearing Japan; heave-to here for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoops?" "Either do that, sir, or waste in one day more oil than we may make good in a year.
Aye! leaks in leaks! not only full of leaky casks, but those leaky casks are in a leaky ship; and that's a far worse plight than the Pequod's, man.
Yet I don't stop to plug my leak; for who can find it in the deep-loaded hull; or how hope to plug it, even if found, in this life's howling gale?
I'll not have the Burtons hoisted." "What will the owners say, sir?" "Let the owners stand on Nantucket beach and outyell the Typhoons.
Thou art always prating to me, Starbuck, about those miserly owners, as if the owners were my conscience.
Dost thou then so much as dare to critically think of me?-On deck!" "Nay, sir, not yet; I do entreat.
What's that he said-Ahab beware of Ahab-there's something there!
It may have been a flash of honesty in him; or mere prudential policy which, under the circumstance, imperiously forbade the slightest symptom of open disaffection, however transient, in the important chief officer of his ship.
So, it being calm weather, they broke out deeper and deeper, disturbing the slumbers of the huge ground-tier butts; and from that black midnight sending those gigantic moles into the daylight above.
Top-heavy was the ship as a dinnerless student with all Aristotle in his head.
How he wasted and wasted away in those few long-lingering days, till there seemed but little left of him but his frame and tattooing.
An awe that cannot be named would steal over you as you sat by the side of this waning savage, and saw as strange things in his face, as any beheld who were bystanders when Zoroaster died.
There was some heathenish, coffin-colored old lumber aboard, which, upon a long previous voyage, had been cut from the aboriginal groves of the Lackaday islands, and from these dark planks the coffin was recommended to be made.
He then called for his harpoon, had the wooden stock drawn from it, and then had the iron part placed in the coffin along with one of the paddles of his boat.
He lay without moving a few minutes, then told one to go to his bag and bring out his little god, Yojo.
Then crossing his arms on his breast with Yojo between, he called for the coffin lid (hatch he called it) to be placed over him.
The head part turned over with a leather hinge, and there lay Queequeg in his coffin with little but his composed countenance in view.
But if the currents carry ye to those sweet Antilles where the beaches are only beat with water-lilies, will ye do one little errand for me?
Seek out one Pip, who's now been missing long: I think he's in those far Antilles.
If ye find him, then comfort him; for he must be very sad; for look! he's left his tambourine behind;-I found it.
So, to my fond faith, poor Pip, in this strange sweetness of his lunacy, brings heavenly vouchers of all our heavenly homes.
Where learned he that, but there?-Hark! he speaks again: but more wildly now." "Form two and two!
Let's make a General of him!
Lay it across here.-Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! huzza!
Oh for a game cock now to sit upon his head and crow!
Queequeg dies game!-mind ye that; Queequeg dies game!-take ye good heed of that; Queequeg dies game!
I say; game, game, game! but base little Pip, he died a coward; died all a'shiver;-out upon Pip!
Hark ye; if ye find Pip, tell all the Antilles he's a runaway; a coward, a coward, a coward!
Tell them he jumped from a whale-boat!
I'd never beat my tambourine over base Pip, and hail him General, if he were once more dying here.
No, no! shame upon all cowards-shame upon them!
Let 'em go drown like Pip, that jumped from a whale-boat.
Shame! shame!" During all this, Queequeg lay with closed eyes, as if in a dream.
They asked him, then, whether to live or die was a matter of his own sovereign will and pleasure.
It rolls the midmost waters of the world, the Indian ocean and Atlantic being but its arms.
Thus this mysterious, divine Pacific zones the world's whole bulk about; makes all coasts one bay to it; seems the tide-beating heart of earth.
Launched at length upon these almost final waters, and gliding towards the Japanese cruising-ground, the old man's purpose intensified itself.
Often he would be surrounded by an eager circle, all waiting to be served; holding boat-spades, pike-heads, harpoons, and lances, and jealously watching his every sooty movement, as he toiled.
Nevertheless, this old man's was a patient hammer wielded by a patient arm.
No murmur, no impatience, no petulence did come from him.
Silent, slow, and solemn; bowing over still further his chronically broken back, he toiled away, as if toil were life itself, and the heavy beating of his hammer the heavy beating of his heart.
And so it was.-Most miserable! A peculiar walk in this old man, a certain slight but painful appearing yawing in his gait, had at an early period of the voyage excited the curiosity of the mariners.
The issue was, the loss of the extremities of both feet.
He had been an artisan of famed excellence, and with plenty to do; owned a house and garden; embraced a youthful, daughter-like, loving wife, and three blithe, ruddy children; every Sunday went to a cheerful-looking church, planted in a grove.
But one night, under cover of darkness, and further concealed in a most cunning disguisement, a desperate burglar slid into his happy home, and robbed them all of everything.
And darker yet to tell, the blacksmith himself did ignorantly conduct this burglar into his family's heart.
It was the Bottle Conjuror!
Upon the opening of that fatal cork, forth flew the fiend, and shrivelled up his home.
Come hither! bury thyself in a life which, to your now equally abhorred and abhorring, landed world, is more oblivious than death.
Come hither! put up _thy_ grave-stone, too, within the churchyard, and come hither, till we marry thee!" Hearkening to these voices, East and West, by early sun-rise, and by fall of eve, the blacksmith's soul responded, Aye, I come!
Thy shrunk voice sounds too calmly, sanely woful to me.
In no Paradise myself, I am impatient of all misery in others that is not mad.
Thou should'st go mad, blacksmith; say, why dost thou not go mad?
How can'st thou endure without being mad?
Can'st thou smoothe this seam?" "Oh! that is the one, sir!
But, away with child's play; no more gaffs and pikes to-day.
Look ye here!" jingling the leathern bag, as if it were full of gold coins.
I, too, want a harpoon made; one that a thousand yoke of fiends could not part, Perth; something that will stick in a whale like his own fin-bone.
There's the stuff," flinging the pouch upon the anvil.
Look ye, blacksmith, these are the gathered nail-stubbs of the steel shoes of racing horses." "Horse-shoe stubbs, sir?
Why, Captain Ahab, thou hast here, then, the best and stubbornest stuff we blacksmiths ever work." "I know it, old man; these stubbs will weld together like glue from the melted bones of murderers.
Quick! forge me the harpoon.
And forge me first, twelve rods for its shank; then wind, and twist, and hammer these twelve together like the yarns and strands of a tow-line.
Quick! I'll blow the fire." When at last the twelve rods were made, Ahab tried them, one by one, by spiralling them, with his own hand, round a long, heavy iron bolt.
A flaw!" rejecting the last one.
Work that over again, Perth." This done, Perth was about to begin welding the twelve into one, when Ahab stayed his hand, and said he would weld his own iron.
But, as Ahab looked up, he slid aside. "What's that bunch of lucifers dodging about there for?" muttered Stubb, looking on from the forecastle.
Is not this harpoon for the White Whale?" "For the white fiend!
But now for the barbs; thou must make them thyself, man.
Will ye give me as much blood as will cover this barb?" holding it high up.
A cluster of dark nods replied, Yes.
This done, pole, iron, and rope-like the Three Fates-remained inseparable, and Ahab moodily stalked away with the weapon; the sound of his ivory leg, and the sound of the hickory pole, both hollowly ringing along every plank.
But ere he entered his cabin, a light, unnatural, half-bantering, yet most piteous sound was heard.
And all this mixes with your most mystic mood; so that fact and fancy, half-way meeting, interpenetrate, and form one seamless whole. Nor did such soothing scenes, however temporary, fail of at least as temporary an effect on Ahab.
But the mingled, mingling threads of life are woven by warp and woof: calms crossed by storms, a storm for every calm.
But once gone through, we trace the round again; and are infants, boys, and men, and Ifs eternally.
Where lies the final harbor, whence we unmoor no more?
In what rapt ether sails the world, of which the weariest will never weary?
Where is the foundling's father hidden?
Signals, ensigns, and jacks of all colors were flying from her rigging, on every side.
Even the cabin table itself had been knocked into kindling-wood; and the cabin mess dined off the broad head of an oil-butt, lashed down to the floor for a centrepiece.
Meanwhile, others of the ship's company were tumultuously busy at the masonry of the try-works, from which the huge pots had been removed.
Come aboard!" "Thou art too damned jolly.
Hast lost any men?" "Not enough to speak of-two islanders, that's all;-but come aboard, old hearty, come along.
I'll soon take that black from your brow.
So go thy ways, and I will mine.
So seemed it with the Pequod.
Nor has this thy whale sunwards turned his dying head, and then gone round again, without a lesson to me. "Oh, trebly hooped and welded hip of power!
Oh, high aspiring, rainbowed jet!-that one strivest, this one jettest all in vain!
In vain, oh whale, dost thou seek intercedings with yon all-quickening sun, that only calls forth life, but gives it not again.
Yet dost thou, darker half, rock me with a prouder, if a darker faith.
I have dreamed it again," said he. "Of the hearses?
Well, then, did I believe all ye say, oh my pilot!
In good time the order came.
That unblinkingly vivid Japanese sun seems the blazing focus of the glassy ocean's immeasurable burning-glass.
The sky looks lacquered; clouds there are none; the horizon floats; and this nakedness of unrelieved radiance is as the insufferable splendors of God's throne.
At length the desired observation was taken; and with his pencil upon his ivory leg, Ahab soon calculated what his latitude must be at that precise instant.
Or canst thou tell where some other thing besides me is this moment living?
This instant thou must be eyeing him.
Thou canst not tell where one drop of water or one grain of sand will be to-morrow noon; and yet with thy impotence thou insultest the sun!
Curse thee, thou vain toy; and cursed be all the things that cast man's eyes aloft to that heaven, whose live vividness but scorches him, as these old eyes are even now scorched with thy light, O sun!
Level by nature to this earth's horizon are the glances of man's eyes; not shot from the crown of his head, as if God had meant him to gaze on his firmament.
Unobserved he rose and glided away; while, awestruck by the aspect of their commander, the seamen clustered together on the forecastle, till Ahab, troubledly pacing the deck, shouted out-"To the braces!
Old man of oceans! of all this fiery life of thine, what will at length remain but one little heap of ashes!" "Aye," cried Stubb, "but sea-coal ashes-mind ye that, Mr. Starbuck-sea-coal, not your common charcoal.
Well, well; I heard Ahab mutter, 'Here some one thrusts these cards into these old hands of mine; swears that I must play them, and no others.
And damn me, Ahab, but thou actest right; live in the game, and die it!" CHAPTER CXIX. THE CANDLES. Warmest climes but nurse the cruellest fangs: the tiger of Bengal crouches in spiced groves of ceaseless verdure.
Skies the most effulgent but basket the deadliest thunders: gorgeous Cuba knows tornadoes that never swept tame northern lands.
So, too, it is, that in these resplendent Japanese seas the mariner encounters the direst of all storms, the Typhoon.
But all their pains seemed naught.
Though lifted to the very top of the cranes, the windward quarter boat (Ahab's) did not escape.
A great rolling sea, dashing high up against the reeling ship's high tetering side, stove in the boat's bottom at the stern, and left it again, all dripping through like a sieve. "Bad work, bad work!
Mr. Starbuck," said Stubb, regarding the wreck, "but the sea will have its way.
Stubb, for one, can't fight it.
You see, Mr. Starbuck, a wave has such a great long start before it leaps, all round the world it runs, and then comes the spring!
But as for me, all the start I have to meet it, is just across the deck here.
And I tell you what it is, Mr. Starbuck, there's no way to stop my singing in this world but to cut my throat.
In the stern-sheets, man; where he is wont to stand-his stand-point is stove, man!
Now jump overboard, and sing away, if thou must!" "I don't half understand ye: what's in the wind?" "Yes, yes, round the Cape of Good Hope is the shortest way to Nantucket," soliloquized Starbuck suddenly, heedless of Stubb's question.
The gale that now hammers at us to stave us, we can turn it into a fair wind that will drive us towards home.
Are they overboard? drop them over, fore and aft.
Quick!" "Avast!" cried Ahab; "let's have fair play here, though we be the weaker side.
Yet I'll contribute to raise rods on the Himmalehs and Andes, that all the world may be secured; but out on privileges!
Let them be, sir." "Look aloft!" cried Starbuck.
Relieved against the ghostly light, the gigantic jet negro, Daggoo, loomed up to thrice his real stature, and seemed the black cloud from which the thunder had come.
A moment or two passed, when Starbuck, going forward, pushed against some one. It was Stubb.
What thinkest thou now, man; I heard thy cry; it was not the same in the song." "No, no, it wasn't; I said the corpusants have mercy on us all; and I hope they will, still.
But do they only have mercy on long faces?-have they no bowels for a laugh?
And look ye, Mr. Starbuck-but it's too dark to look.
Yes, our three masts will yet be as three spermaceti candles-that's the good promise we saw." At that moment Starbuck caught sight of Stubb's face slowly beginning to glimmer into sight.
In various enchanted attitudes, like the standing, or stepping, or running skeletons in Herculaneum, others remained rooted to the deck; but all their eyes upcast. "Aye, aye, men!" cried Ahab.
Look up at it; mark it well; the white flame but lights the way to the White Whale!
Hand me those main-mast links there; I would fain feel this pulse, and let mine beat against it; blood against fire!
To neither love nor reverence wilt thou be kind; and e'en for hate thou canst but kill; and all are killed.
No fearless fool now fronts thee.
I own thy speechless, placeless power; but to the last gasp of my earthquake life will dispute its unconditional, unintegral mastery in me.
In the midst of the personified impersonal, a personality stands here.
Though but a point at best; whencesoe'er I came; wheresoe'er I go; yet while I earthly live, the queenly personality lives in me, and feels her royal rights.
But war is pain, and hate is woe.
Come in thy lowest form of love, and I will kneel and kiss thee; but at thy highest, come as mere supernal power; and though thou launchest navies of full-freighted worlds, there's that in here that still remains indifferent.
Nor was it wrung from me; nor do I now drop these links.
Thou canst blind; but I can then grope.
Thou canst consume; but I can then be ashes.
Take the homage of these poor eyes, and shutter-hands.
I would not take it. The lightning flashes through my skull; mine eye-balls ache and ache; my whole beaten brain seems as beheaded, and rolling on some stunning ground.
Yet blindfold, yet will I talk to thee.
Light though thou be, thou leapest out of darkness; but I am darkness leaping out of light, leaping out of thee!
The javelins cease; open eyes; see, or not?
Oh, thou magnanimous! now I do glory in my genealogy.
But thou art but my fiery father; my sweet mother, I know not.
Oh, cruel! what hast thou done with her?
There lies my puzzle; but thine is greater.
Thou knowest not how came ye, hence callest thyself unbegotten; certainly knowest not thy beginning, hence callest thyself unbegun.
I know that of me, which thou knowest not of thyself, oh, thou omnipotent.
There is some unsuffusing thing beyond thee, thou clear spirit, to whom all thy eternity is but time, all thy creativeness mechanical.
Through thee, thy flaming self, my scorched eyes do dimly see it.
Oh, thou foundling fire, thou hermit immemorial, thou too hast thy incommunicable riddle, thy unparticipated grief.
Here again with haughty agony, I read my sire.
Leap! leap up, and lick the sky!
For the moment all the aghast mate's thoughts seemed theirs; they raised a half mutinous cry.
And that ye may know to what tune this heart beats; look ye here; thus I blow out the last fear!
Starbuck approaching him._ "We must send down the main-top-sail yard, sir.
The band is working loose, and the lee lift is half-stranded.
Shall I strike it, sir?" "Strike nothing; lash it.
If I had sky-sail poles, I'd sway them up now." "Sir?-in God's name!-sir?" "Well." "The anchors are working, sir.
Shall I get them inboard?" "Strike nothing, and stir nothing, but lash everything.
The wind rises, but it has not got up to my table-lands yet.
Quick, and see to it.-By masts and keels! he takes me for the hunch-backed skipper of some coasting smack.
Send down my main-top-sail yard!
Loftiest trucks were made for wildest winds, and this brain-truck of mine now sails amid the cloud-scud.
Oh, none but cowards send down their brain-trucks in tempest time.
What a hooroosh aloft there!
I would e'en take it for sublime, did I not know that the colic is a noisy malady.
And how long ago is it since you said the very contrary?
Didn't you once say that whatever ship Ahab sails in, that ship should pay something extra on its insurance policy, just as though it were loaded with powder barrels aft and boxes of lucifers forward?
Stop, now; didn't you say so?" "Well, suppose I did?
I've part changed my flesh since that time, why not my mind?
Besides, supposing we _are_ loaded with powder barrels aft and lucifers forward; how the devil could the lucifers get afire in this drenching spray here?
Why, my little man, you have pretty red hair, but you couldn't get afire now.
Shake yourself; you're Aquarius, or the water-bearer, Flask; might fill pitchers at your coat collar.
Don't you see, then, that for these extra risks the Marine Insurance companies have extra guarantees?
But hark, again, and I'll answer ye the other thing.
First take your leg off from the crown of the anchor here, though, so I can pass the rope; now listen.
What's the mighty difference between holding a mast's lightning-rod in the storm, and standing close by a mast that hasn't got any lightning-rod at all in a storm?
Don't you see, you timber-head, that no harm can come to the holder of the rod, unless the mast is first struck?
Why, you King-Post, you, I suppose you would have every man in the world go about with a small lightning-rod running up the corner of his hat, like a militia officer's skewered feather, and trailing behind like his sash.
Why don't ye be sensible, Flask? it's easy to be sensible; why don't ye, then? any man with half an eye can be sensible." "I don't know that, Stubb.
You sometimes find it rather hard." "Yes, when a fellow's soaked through, it's hard to be sensible, that's a fact.
And I am about drenched with this spray.
Never mind; catch the turn there, and pass it.
Seems to me we are lashing down these anchors now as if they were never going to be used again.
Tying these two anchors here, Flask, seems like tying a man's hands behind him. And what big generous hands they are, to be sure.
These are your iron fists, hey?
What a hold they have, too!
I wonder, Flask, whether the world is anchored anywhere; if she is, she swings with an uncommon long cable, though.
There, hammer that knot down, and we've done.
So; next to touching land, lighting on deck is the most satisfactory.
I say, just wring out my jacket skirts, will ye?
They laugh at long-togs so, Flask; but seems to me, a long tailed coat ought always to be worn in all storms afloat.
The tails tapering down that way, serve to carry off the water, d'ye see.
Same with cocked hats; the cocks form gable-end eave-troughs, Flask.
No more monkey-jackets and tarpaulins for me; I must mount a swallow-tail, and drive down a beaver; so.
Plenty too much thunder up here.
What's the use of thunder?
We don't want thunder; we want rum; give us a glass of rum.
For during the violence of the gale, he had only steered according to its vicissitudes.
The cabin lamp-taking long swings this way and that-was burning fitfully, and casting fitful shadows upon the old man's bolted door,-a thin one, with fixed blinds inserted, in place of upper panels.
The isolated subterraneousness of the cabin made a certain humming silence to reign there, though it was hooped round by all the roar of the elements.
The loaded muskets in the rack were shiningly revealed, as they stood upright against the forward bulkhead.
Strange, that I, who have handled so many deadly lances, strange, that I should shake so now.
Aye, aye; and powder in the pan;-that's not good.
I'll cure myself of this.
I'll hold the musket boldly while I think.-I come to report a fair wind to him.
Fair for death and doom,-_that's_ fair for Moby Dick.
Does he not say he will not strike his spars to any gale?
If, then, he were this instant-put aside, that crime would not be his.
Ha! is he muttering in his sleep?
Yes, just there,-in there, he's sleeping.
Sleeping? aye, but still alive, and soon awake again.
I can't withstand thee, then, old man.
Not reasoning; not remonstrance; not entreaty wilt thou hearken to; all this thou scornest.
Flat obedience to thy own flat commands, this is all thou breathest.
Aye, and say'st the men have vow'd thy vow; say'st all of us are Ahabs. Great God forbid!-But is there no other way? no lawful way?-Make him a prisoner to be taken home?
What! hope to wrest this old man's living power from his own living hands?
Only a fool would try it.
Say he were pinioned even; knotted all over with ropes and hawsers; chained down to ring-bolts on this cabin floor; he would be more hideous than a caged tiger, then.
I could not endure the sight; could not possibly fly his howlings; all comfort, sleep itself, inestimable reason would leave me on the long intolerable voyage.
The land is hundreds of leagues away, and locked Japan the nearest.
A touch, and Starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child again.-Oh Mary!
Mary!-boy! boy! boy!-But if I wake thee not to death, old man, who can tell to what unsounded deeps Starbuck's body this day week may sink, with all the crew!
Great God, where art thou?
Shall I? shall I?-- The wind has gone down and shifted, sir; the fore and main topsails are reefed and set; she heads her course." "Stern all!
I must see to the deck here.
Thou know'st what to say." CHAPTER CXXIV. THE NEEDLE. Next morning the not-yet-subsided sea rolled in long slow billows of mighty bulk, and striving in the Pequod's gurgling track, pushed her on like giants' palms outspread.
The strong, unstaggering breeze abounded so, that sky and air seemed vast outbellying sails; the whole world boomed before the wind.
Muffled in the full morning light, the invisible sun was only known by the spread intensity of his place; where his bayonet rays moved on in stacks.
Emblazonings, as of crowned Babylonian kings and queens, reigned over everything.
Mr. Starbuck, last night's thunder turned our compasses-that's all.
The magnetic energy, as developed in the mariner's needle, is, as all know, essentially one with the electricity beheld in heaven; hence it is not to be much marvelled at, that such things should be.
As for the men, though some of them lowly rumbled, their fear of Ahab was greater than their fear of Fate.
But Ahab is lord over the level loadstone yet.
But Starbuck looked away. With a blow from the top-maul Ahab knocked off the steel head of the lance, and then handing to the mate the long iron rod remaining, bade him hold it upright, without its touching the deck.
Then, with the maul, after repeatedly smiting the upper end of this iron rod, he placed the blunted needle endwise on the top of it, and less strongly hammered that, several times, the mate still holding the rod as before.
It had been thus with the Pequod.
The wooden reel and angular log attached hung, long untouched, just beneath the railing of the after bulwarks.
Rains and spray had damped it; sun and wind had warped it; all the elements had combined to rot a thing that hung so idly.
The ship was sailing plungingly; astern the billows rolled in riots. "Forward, there!
Heave the log!" Two seamen came.
Long heat and wet, have they spoiled thee? Thou seem'st to hold.
Or, truer perhaps, life holds thee; not thou it." "I hold the spool, sir.
But just as my captain says.
With these grey hairs of mine 'tis not worth while disputing, 'specially with a superior, who'll ne'er confess." "What's that?
There now's a patched professor in Queen Nature's granite-founded College; but methinks he's too subservient.
Where wert thou born?" "In the little rocky Isle of Man, sir." "Excellent!
Thou'st hit the world by that." "I know not, sir, but I was born there." "In the Isle of Man, hey?
Well, the other way, it's good.
Here's a man from Man; a man born in once independent Man, and now unmanned of Man; which is sucked in-by what?
The dead, blind wall butts all inquiring heads at last.
So." The log was heaved.
The loose coils rapidly straightened out in a long dragging line astern, and then, instantly, the reel began to whirl.
But Ahab can mend all.
Haul in here, Tahitian; reel up, Manxman.
And look ye, let the carpenter make another log, and mend thou the line.
See to it." "There he goes now; to him nothing's happened; but to me, the skewer seems loosening out of the middle of the world.
Haul in, haul in, Tahitian!
These lines run whole, and whirling out: come in broken, and dragging slow.
Ha, Pip? come to help; eh, Pip?" "Pip? whom call ye Pip?
Pip jumped from the whale-boat.
Pip's missing. Let's see now if ye haven't fished him up here, fisherman.
It drags hard; I guess he's holding on.
Jerk him off; we haul in no cowards here.
Ho! there's his arm just breaking water.
A hatchet! a hatchet! cut it off-we haul in no cowards here.
Where sayest thou Pip was, boy?" "Astern there, sir, astern!
Lo, lo!" "And who art thou, boy?
I see not my reflection in the vacant pupils of thy eyes.
Oh God! that man should be a thing for immortal souls to sieve through!
Who art thou, boy?" "Bell-boy, sir; ship's-crier; ding, dong, ding!
Pip! One hundred pounds of clay reward for Pip; five feet high-looks cowardly-quickest known by that!
Who's seen Pip the coward?" "There can be no hearts above the snow-line.
Oh, ye frozen heavens! look down here.
Ye did beget this luckless child, and have abandoned him, ye creative libertines.
Here, boy; Ahab's cabin shall be Pip's home henceforth, while Ahab lives.
Thou touchest my inmost centre, boy; thou art tied to me by cords woven of my heart-strings.
Come, let's down." "What's this? here's velvet shark-skin," intently gazing at Ahab's hand, and feeling it.
Ah, now, had poor Pip but felt so kind a thing as this, perhaps he had ne'er been lost!
This seems to me, sir, as a man-rope; something that weak souls may hold by.
Come, then, to my cabin.
Come! I feel prouder leading thee by thy black hand, than though I grasped an Emperor's!" "There go two daft ones now," muttered the old Manxman.
One daft with strength, the other daft with weakness.
But here's the end of the rotten line-all dripping, too.
I think we had best have a new line altogether.
I'll see Mr. Stubb about it." CHAPTER CXXVI. THE LIFE-BUOY. Steering now south-eastward by Ahab's levelled steel, and her progress solely determined by Ahab's level log and line; the Pequod held on her path towards the Equator.
The Christian or civilized part of the crew said it was mermaids, and shuddered; but the pagan harpooneers remained unappalled.
In the sea, under certain circumstances, seals have more than once been mistaken for men. But the bodings of the crew were destined to receive a most plausible confirmation in the fate of one of their number that morning.
But few, perhaps, thought of that at the time.
Rig it, carpenter; do not look at me so-the coffin, I mean.
Make a life-buoy of the coffin, and no more.-Mr. Stubb, Mr. Flask, come forward with me." "He goes off in a huff.
The whole he can endure; at the parts he baulks.
Now I don't like this.
I make a leg for Captain Ahab, and he wears it like a gentleman; but I make a bandbox for Queequeg, and he wont put his head into it.
Are all my pains to go for nothing with that coffin?
And now I'm ordered to make a life-buoy of it.
It's like turning an old coat; going to bring the flesh on the other side now. I don't like this cobbling sort of business-I don't like it at all; it's undignified; it's not my place.
Let tinkers' brats do tinkerings; we are their betters.
It's the old woman's tricks to be giving cobbling jobs.
Lord! what an affection all old women have for tinkers.
I know an old woman of sixty-five who ran away with a bald-headed young tinker once.
And that's the reason I never would work for lonely widow old women ashore, when I kept my job-shop in the Vineyard; they might have taken it into their lonely old heads to run off with me.
But heigh-ho! there are no caps at sea but snow-caps.
Nail down the lid; caulk the seams; pay over the same with pitch; batten them down tight, and hang it with the snap-spring over the ship's stern.
Were ever such things done before with a coffin?
Some superstitious old carpenters, now, would be tied up in the rigging, ere they would do the job.
But I'm made of knotty Aroostook hemlock; I don't budge.
Sailing about with a grave-yard tray!
We workers in woods make bridal-bedsteads and card-tables, as well as coffins and hearses.
We work by the month, or by the job, or by the profit; not for us to ask the why and wherefore of our work, unless it be too confounded cobbling, and then we stash it if we can.
I'll do the job, now, tenderly.
I'll have me-let's see-how many in the ship's company, all told?
Any way, I'll have me thirty separate, Turk's-headed life-lines, each three feet long hanging all round to the coffin.
Then, if the hull go down, there'll be thirty lively fellows all fighting for one coffin, a sight not seen very often beneath the sun!
Come hammer, calking-iron, pitch-pot, and marling-spike!
Not this hand complies with my humor more genially than that boy.-Middle aisle of a church!
Beware the hatchway!" "Thank ye, man.
Thy coffin lies handy to the vault." "Sir?
So it does, sir, so it does." "Art not thou the leg-maker?
Look, did not this stump come from thy shop?" "I believe it did, sir; does the ferrule stand, sir?" "Well enough.
Thou art as unprincipled as the gods, and as much of a jack-of-all-trades." "But I do not mean anything, sir.
I do as I do." "The gods again.
Hark ye, dost thou not ever sing working about a coffin?
The Titans, they say, hummed snatches when chipping out the craters for volcanoes; and the grave-digger in the play sings, spade in hand.
Dost thou never?" "Sing, sir?
Oh, I'm indifferent enough, sir, for that; but the reason why the grave-digger made music must have been because there was none in his spade, sir.
But the calking mallet is full of it.
Hark to it." "Aye, and that's because the lid there's a sounding-board; and what in all things makes the sounding-board is this-there's naught beneath.
And yet, a coffin with a body in it rings pretty much the same, Carpenter. Hast thou ever helped carry a bier, and heard the coffin knock against the churchyard gate, going in?" "Faith, sir, I've--" "Faith?
What's that?" "Why, faith, sir, it's only a sort of exclamation-like-that's all, sir." "Um, um; go on." "I was about to say, sir, that--" "Art thou a silk-worm?
Dost thou spin thy own shroud out of thyself? Look at thy bosom!
Despatch! and get these traps out of sight." "He goes aft.
That was sudden, now; but squalls come sudden in hot latitudes.
I've heard that the Isle of Albemarle, one of the Gallipagos, is cut by the Equator right in the middle.
Seems to me some sort of Equator cuts yon old man, too, right in his middle.
He's always under the Line-fiery hot, I tell ye!
He's looking this way-come, oakum; quick.
This wooden mallet is the cork, and I'm the professor of musical glasses-tap, tap!" (_Ahab to himself._) "There's a sight!
The greyheaded woodpecker tapping the hollow tree!
Blind and dumb might well be envied now.
See! that thing rests on two line-tubs, full of tow-lines.
A most malicious wag, that fellow.
Oh! how immaterial are all materials!
What things real are there, but imponderable thoughts? Here now's the very dreaded symbol of grim death, by a mere hap, made the expressive sign of the help and hope of most endangered life.
A life-buoy of a coffin!
Can it be that in some spiritual sense the coffin is, after all, but an immortality-preserver! I'll think of that.
But no. So far gone am I in the dark side of earth, that its other side, the theoretic bright one, seems but uncertain twilight to me.
Will ye never have done, Carpenter, with that accursed sound?
I go below; let me not see that thing here when I return again.
Now, then, Pip, we'll talk this over; I do suck most wondrous philosophies from thee!
Some unknown conduits from the unknown worlds must empty into thee!" CHAPTER CXXVIII. THE PEQUOD MEETS THE RACHEL. Next day, a large ship, the Rachel, was descried, bearing directly down upon the Pequod, all her spars thickly clustering with men.
But ere her commander, who, with trumpet to mouth, stood up in his boat; ere he could hopefully hail, Ahab's voice was heard. "Hast seen the White Whale?" "Aye, yesterday.
Have ye seen a whale-boat adrift?" Throttling his joy, Ahab negatively answered this unexpected question; and would then have fain boarded the stranger, when the stranger captain himself, having stopped his vessel's way, was seen descending her side.
A few keen pulls, and his boat-hook soon clinched the Pequod's main-chains, and he sprang to the deck.
Immediately he was recognized by Ahab for a Nantucketer he knew.
After a keen sail before the wind, this fourth boat-the swiftest keeled of all-seemed to have succeeded in fastening-at least, as well as the man at the mast-head could tell anything about it.
There was some apprehension, but no positive alarm, as yet.
But the rest of her crew being at last safe aboard, she crowded all sail-stunsail on stunsail-after the missing boat; kindling a fire in her try-pots for a beacon; and every other man aloft on the look-out.
Who ever heard of two pious whale-ships cruising after one missing whale-boat in the height of the whaling season?
See, Flask, only see how pale he looks-pale in the very buttons of his eyes-look-it wasn't the coat-it must have been the-" "My boy, my own boy is among them.
For God's sake-I beg, I conjure"-here exclaimed the stranger Captain to Ahab, who thus far had but icily received his petition.
I take back the coat and watch-what says Ahab?
Do to me as you would have me do to you in the like case.
God bless ye, man, and may I forgive myself, but I must go.
The hour is coming when Ahab would not scare thee from him, yet would not have thee by him.
There is that in thee, poor lad, which I feel too curing to my malady.
Like cures like; and for this hunt, my malady becomes my most desired health.
Do thou abide below here, where they shall serve thee, as if thou wert the captain.
And now I quit thee.
True art thou, lad, as the circumference to its centre.
So: God for ever bless thee; and if it come to that,-God for ever save thee, let what will befall." (_Ahab goes; Pip steps one step forward._) "Here he this instant stood; I stand in his air,-but I'm alone.
Now were even poor Pip here I could endure it, but he's missing.
He must be up here; let's try the door.
What? neither lock, nor bolt, nor bar; and yet there's no opening it.
It must be the spell; he told me to stay here: Aye, and told me this screwed chair was mine.
Here, then, I'll seat me, against the transom, in the ship's full middle, all her keel and her three masts before me.
Here, our old sailors say, in their black seventy-fours great admirals sometimes sit at table, and lord it over rows of captains and lieutenants.
Ha! what's this? epaulets! epaulets! the epaulets all come crowding!
Pass round the decanters; glad to see ye; fill up, monsieurs!
What an odd feeling, now, when a black boy's host to white men with gold lace upon their coats!-Monsieurs, have ye seen one Pip?-a little negro lad, five feet high, hang-dog look, and cowardly!
Jumped from a whale-boat once;-seen him?
Well then, fill up again, captains, and let's drink shame upon all cowards!
Put one foot upon the table.
Shame upon all cowards.-Hist! above there, I hear ivory-Oh, master! master!
I am indeed down-hearted when you walk over me.
As the unsetting polar star, which through the livelong, arctic, six months' night sustains its piercing, steady, central gaze; so Ahab's purpose now fixedly gleamed down upon the constant midnight of the gloomy crew.
It domineered above them so, that all their bodings, doubts, misgivings, fears, were fain to hide beneath their souls, and not sprout forth a single spear or leaf. In this foreshadowing interval too, all humor, forced or natural, vanished.
Stubb no more strove to raise a smile; Starbuck no more strove to check one.
Alike, joy and sorrow, hope and fear, seemed ground to finest dust, and powdered, for the time, in the clamped mortar of Ahab's iron soul.
And that shadow was always hovering there.
For not by night, even, had Fedallah ever certainly been known to slumber, or go below.
Though such a potent spell seemed secretly to join the twain; openly, and to the awe-struck crew, they seemed pole-like asunder.
If by day they chanced to speak one word; by night, dumb men were both, so far as concerned the slightest verbal interchange.
Still again both seemed yoked together, and an unseen tyrant driving them; the lean shade siding the solid rib.
But if these suspicions were really his, he sagaciously refrained from verbally expressing them, however his actions might seem to hint them. "I will have the first sight of the whale myself,"-he said.
Then arranging his person in the basket, he gave the word for them to hoist him to his perch, Starbuck being the one who secured the rope at last; and afterwards stood near it.
But only by the replacing of the cap was that omen accounted good.
Only _that_ one I bury; the rest were buried before they died; you sail upon their tomb.
Then turning to his crew-"Are ye ready there? place the plank then on the rail, and lift the body; so, then-Oh!
God"-advancing towards the hammock with uplifted hands-"may the resurrection and the life--" "Brace forward!
Invisible winged creatures that frolic all round us!
Sweet childhood of air and sky! how oblivious were ye of old Ahab's close-coiled woe!
But the lovely aromas in that enchanted air did at last seem to dispel, for a moment, the cankerous thing in his soul.
Careful not to touch him, or be noticed by him, he yet drew near to him, and stood there. Ahab turned. "Starbuck!" "Sir." "Oh, Starbuck! it is a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky.
On such a day-very much such a sweetness as this-I struck my first whale-a boy-harpooneer of eighteen!
Forty years of continual whaling! forty years of privation, and peril, and storm-time! forty years on the pitiless sea! for forty years has Ahab forsaken the peaceful land, for forty years to make war on the horrors of the deep!
Aye and yes, Starbuck, out of those forty years I have not spent three ashore.
Why this strife of the chase? why weary, and palsy the arm at the oar, and the iron, and the lance? how the richer or better is Ahab now?
Oh, Starbuck! is it not hard, that with this weary load I bear, one poor leg should have been snatched from under me?
Here, brush this old hair aside; it blinds me, that I seem to weep.
Locks so grey did never grow but from out some ashes!
But do I look very old, so very, very old, Starbuck?
I feel deadly faint, bowed, and humped, as though I were Adam, staggering beneath the piled centuries since Paradise.
God!-crack my heart!-stave my brain!-mockery! mockery! bitter, biting mockery of grey hairs, have I lived enough joy to wear ye; and seem and feel thus intolerably old?
Close! stand close to me, Starbuck; let me look into a human eye; it is better than to gaze into sea or sky; better than to gaze upon God.
By the green land; by the bright hearth-stone! this is the magic glass, man; I see my wife and my child in thine eye.
No, no; stay on board, on board!-lower not when I do; when branded Ahab gives chase to Moby Dick.
That hazard shall not be thine.
No, no! not with the far away home I see in that eye!" "Oh, my Captain! my Captain! noble soul! grand old heart, after all! why should any one give chase to that hated fish!
Away with me! let us fly these deadly waters! let us home!
Wife and child, too, are Starbuck's-wife and child of his brotherly, sisterly, play-fellow youth; even as thine, sir, are the wife and child of thy loving, longing, paternal old age!
Away! let us away!-this instant let me alter the course!
How cheerily, how hilariously, O my Captain, would we bowl on our way to see old Nantucket again!
I think, sir, they have some such mild blue days, even as this, in Nantucket." "They have, they have.
I have seen them-some summer days in the morning.
She promised that my boy, every morning, should be carried to the hill to catch the first glimpse of his father's sail!
Yes, yes! no more! it is done! we head for Nantucket! Come, my Captain, study out the course, and let us away!
Is it I, God, or who, that lifts this arm?
By heaven, man, we are turned round and round in this world, like yonder windlass, and Fate is the handspike.
And all the time, lo! that smiling sky, and this unsounded sea!
Look! see yon Albicore! who put it into him to chase and fang that flying-fish?
Where do murderers go, man!
Who's to doom, when the judge himself is dragged to the bar?
Aye, toil we how we may, we all sleep at last on the field.
He declared that a whale must be near.
A hump like a snow-hill!
It is Moby Dick!" Fired by the cry which seemed simultaneously taken up by the three look-outs, the men on deck rushed to the rigging to behold the famous whale they had so long been pursuing.
Ahab had now gained his final perch, some feet above the other look-outs, Tashtego standing just beneath him on the cap of the top-gallant-mast, so that the Indian's head was almost on a level with Ahab's heel.
From this height the whale was now seen some mile or so ahead, at every roll of the sea revealing his high sparkling hump, and regularly jetting his silent spout into the air.
There she blows! there she blows!-there she blows!
There again!-there again!" he cried, in long-drawn, lingering, methodic tones, attuned to the gradual prolongings of the whale's visible jets.
Mr. Starbuck, remember, stay on board, and keep the ship.
No, no; only black water!
All ready the boats there?
Lower me, Mr. Starbuck; lower, lower,-quick, quicker!" and he slid through the air to the deck. "He is heading straight to leeward, sir," cried Stubb, "right away from us; cannot have seen the ship yet." "Be dumb, man!
Hard down the helm!-brace up! Shiver her!-shiver her!
Boats, boats!" Soon all the boats but Starbuck's were dropped; all the boat-sails set-all the paddles plying; with rippling swiftness, shooting to leeward; and Ahab heading the onset.
A pale, death-glimmer lit up Fedallah's sunken eyes; a hideous motion gnawed his mouth. Like noiseless nautilus shells, their light prows sped through the sea; but only slowly they neared the foe.
As they neared him, the ocean grew still more smooth; seemed drawing a carpet over its waves; seemed a noon-meadow, so serenely it spread.
He saw the vast, involved wrinkles of the slightly projecting head beyond.
No wonder there had been some among the hunters who namelessly transported and allured by all this serenity, had ventured to assail it; but had fatally found that quietude but the vesture of tornadoes.
It was only an instant; for again his eyes seemed whirling round in his head as he swept the watery circle.
Their vision was keener than man's; Ahab could discover no sign in the sea.
It was Moby Dick's open mouth and scrolled jaw; his vast, shadowed bulk still half blending with the blue of the sea.
The glittering mouth yawned beneath the boat like an open-doored marble tomb; and giving one sidelong sweep with his steering oar, Ahab whirled the craft aside from this tremendous apparition.
The bluish pearl-white of the inside of the jaw was within six inches of Ahab's head, and reached higher than that.
It receives its designation (pitchpoling) from its being likened to that preliminary up-and-down poise of the whale-lance, in the exercise called pitchpoling, previously described.
The sight of the splintered boat seemed to madden him, as the blood of grapes and mulberries cast before Antiochus's elephants in the book of Maccabees.
From the boat's fragmentary stern, Fedallah incuriously and mildly eyed him; the clinging crew, at the other drifting end, could not succor him; more than enough was it for them to look to themselves.
For so revolvingly appalling was the White Whale's aspect, and so planetarily swift the ever-contracting circles he made, that he seemed horizontally swooping upon them.
Far inland, nameless wails came from him, as desolate sounds from out ravines. But this intensity of his physical prostration did but so much the more abbreviate it.
In an instant's compass, great hearts sometimes condense to one deep pang, the sum total of those shallow pains kindly diffused through feebler men's whole lives.
So, so, I see him! there! there! going to leeward still; what a leaping spout!-Hands off from me! The eternal sap runs up in Ahab's bones again!
The ship itself, then, as it sometimes happens, offered the most promising intermediate means of overtaking the chase.
Man, man! did I not know thee brave as fearless fire (and as mechanical) I could swear thou wert a poltroon.
Groan nor laugh should be heard before a wreck." "Aye, sir," said Starbuck drawing near, "'tis a solemn sight; an omen, and an ill one." "Omen? omen?-the dictionary!
If the gods think to speak outright to man, they will honorably speak outright; not shake their heads, and give an old wives' darkling hint.-Begone!
Ye two are the opposite poles of one thing; Starbuck is Stubb reversed, and Stubb is Starbuck; and ye two are all mankind; and Ahab stands alone among the millions of the peopled earth, nor gods nor men his neighbors!
Down royals and top-gallant stun-sails, Mr. Starbuck.
We must not run over him before morning; he's making a passage now, and may heave-to a while.
So that to this hunter's wondrous skill, the proverbial evanescence of a thing writ in water, a wake, is to all desired purposes well nigh as reliable as the steadfast land.
This ship and I are two brave fellows!-Ha! ha!
Some one take me up, and launch me, spine-wise, on the sea,-for by live-oaks! my spine's a keel.
The frenzies of the chase had by this time worked them bubblingly up, like old wine worked anew.
The wind that made great bellies of their sails, and rushed the vessel on by arms invisible as irresistible; this seemed the symbol of that unseen agency which so enslaved them to the race. They were one man, not thirty.
The mast-heads, like the tops of tall palms, were outspreadingly tufted with arms and legs.
The triumphant halloo of thirty buckskin lungs was heard, as-much nearer to the ship than the place of the imaginary jet, less than a mile ahead-Moby Dick bodily burst into view!
For not by any calm and indolent spoutings; not by the peaceable gush of that mystic fountain in his head, did the White Whale now reveal his vicinity; but by the far more wondrous phenomenon of breaching.
Mr. Starbuck, the ship is thine-keep away from the boats, but keep near them.
Lower, all!" As if to strike a quick terror into them, by this time being the first assailant himself, Moby Dick had turned, and was now coming for the three crews.
Only one thing could be done.
Some sprained shoulders, wrists, and ankles; livid contusions; wrenched harpoons and lances; inextricable intricacies of rope; shattered oars and planks; all these were there; but no fatal or even serious ill seemed to have befallen any one.
Nor white whale, nor man, nor fiend, can so much as graze old Ahab in his own proper and inaccessible being.
Accursed fate! that the unconquerable captain in the soul should have such a craven mate!" "Sir?" "My body, man, not thee.
Give me something for a cane-there, that shivered lance will do.
Surely I have not seen him yet. By heaven it cannot be!-missing?-quick! call them all." The old man's hinted thought was true.
Keep him nailed-Quick!-all hands to the rigging of the boats-collect the oars-harpooneers! the irons, the irons!-hoist the royals higher-a pull on all the sheets!-helm there! steady, steady for your life!
Shall we be dragged by him to the bottom of the sea?
Shall we be towed by him to the infernal world?
Oh, oh,-Impiety and blasphemy to hunt him more!" "Starbuck, of late I've felt strangely moved to thee; ever since that hour we both saw-thou know'st what, in one another's eyes.
But in this matter of the whale, be the front of thy face to me as the palm of this hand-a lipless, unfeatured blank.
Ahab is for ever Ahab, man.
This whole act's immutably decreed.
Twas rehearsed by thee and me a billion years before this ocean rolled.
I am the Fates' lieutenant; I act under orders.
Look thou, underling! that thou obeyest mine.-Stand round me, men.
Ye see an old man cut down to the stump; leaning on a shivered lance; propped up on a lonely foot.
Tis Ahab-his body's part; but Ahab's soul's a centipede, that moves upon a hundred legs.
I feel strained, half stranded, as ropes that tow dismasted frigates in a gale; and I may look so.
But ere I break, ye'll hear me crack; and till ye hear _that_, know that Ahab's hawser tows his purpose yet.
Believe ye, men, in the things called omens?
Then laugh aloud, and cry encore! For ere they drown, drowning things will twice rise to the surface; then rise again, to sink for evermore.
So with Moby Dick-two days he's floated-to-morrow will be the third.
Aye, men, he'll rise once more,-but only to spout his last!
D'ye feel brave men, brave?" "As fearless fire," cried Stubb. "And as mechanical," muttered Ahab.
Then as the men went forward, he muttered on:-"The things called omens!
And yesterday I talked the same to Starbuck there, concerning my broken boat.
What a lovely day again! were it a new-made world, and made for a summer-house to the angels, and this morning the first of its throwing open to them, a fairer day could not dawn upon that world.
Here's food for thought, had Ahab time to think; but Ahab never thinks; he only feels, feels, feels; _that's_ tingling enough for mortal man! to think's audacity. God only has that right and privilege.
Thinking is, or ought to be, a coolness and a calmness; and our poor hearts throb, and our poor brains beat too much for that.
And yet, I've sometimes thought my brain was very calm-frozen calm, this old skull cracks so, like a glass in which the contents turned to ice, and shiver it.
And still this hair is growing now; this moment growing, and heat must breed it; but no, it's like that sort of common grass that will grow anywhere, between the earthy clefts of Greenland ice or in Vesuvius lava.
How the wild winds blow it; they whip it about me as the torn shreds of split sails lash the tossed ship they cling to.
A vile wind that has no doubt blown ere this through prison corridors and cells, and wards of hospitals, and ventilated them, and now comes blowing hither as innocent as fleeces.
Were I the wind, I'd blow no more on such a wicked, miserable world.
I'd crawl somewhere to a cave, and slink there.
And yet, 'tis a noble and heroic thing, the wind! who ever conquered it?
In every fight it has the last and bitterest blow. Run tilting at it, and you but run through it.
Ha! a coward wind that strikes stark naked men, but will not stand to receive a single blow. Even Ahab is a braver thing-a nobler thing than _that_.
Would now the wind but had a body; but all the things that most exasperate and outrage mortal man, all these things are bodiless, but only bodiless as objects, not as agents.
There's a most special, a most cunning, oh, a most malicious difference!
And yet, I say again, and swear it now, that there's something all glorious and gracious in the wind.
And by the eternal Poles! these same Trades that so directly blow my good ship on; these Trades, or something like them-something so unchangeable, and full as strong, blow my keeled soul along!
What d'ye see?" "Nothing, sir." "Nothing! and noon at hand!
See the sun! Aye, aye, it must be so.
Aye, he's chasing _me_ now; not I, _him_-that's bad; I might have known it, too.
Fool! the lines-the harpoons he's towing.
Aye, aye, I have run him by last night.
Come down, all of ye, but the regular look outs!
God keep us, but already my bones feel damp within me, and from the inside wet my flesh.
Time itself now held long breaths with keen suspense.
On deck there!-brace sharper up; crowd her into the wind's eye.
He's too far off to lower yet, Mr. Starbuck.
Stand over that helmsman with a top-maul!
So, so; he travels fast, and I must down.
But let me have one more good round look aloft here at the sea; there's time for that.
An old, old sight, and yet somehow so young; aye, and not changed a wink since I first saw it, a boy, from the sand-hills of Nantucket!
The same!-the same!-the same to Noah as to me.
There's a soft shower to leeward.
They must lead somewhere-to something else than common land, more palmy than the palms.
Leeward! the white whale goes that way; look to windward, then; the better if the bitterer quarter.
But good bye, good bye, old mast-head!
What's this?-green? aye, tiny mosses in these warped cracks. No such green weather stains on Ahab's head!
There's the difference now between man's old age and matter's.
But aye, old mast, we both grow old together; sound in our hulls, though, are we not, my ship?
Aye, minus a leg, that's all.
By heaven this dead wood has the better of my live flesh every way.
I can't compare with it; and I've known some ships made of dead trees outlast the lives of men made of the most vital stuff of vital fathers.
What's that he said? he should still go before me, my pilot; and yet to be seen again?
Will I have eyes at the bottom of the sea, supposing I descend those endless stairs? and all night I've been sailing from him, wherever he did sink to.
Aye, aye, like many more thou told'st direful truth as touching thyself, O Parsee; but, Ahab, there thy shot fell short.
Good by, mast-head-keep a good eye upon the whale, the while I'm gone.
It is a thing not uncommonly happening to the whale-boats in those swarming seas; the sharks at times apparently following them in the same prescient way that vultures hover over the banners of marching regiments in the east.
Oh! my God! what is this that shoots through me, and leaves me so deadly calm, yet expectant,-fixed at the top of a shudder!
Future things swim before me, as in empty outlines and skeletons; all the past is somehow grown dim.
Mary, girl! thou fadest in pale glories behind me; boy!
I seem to see but thy eyes grown wondrous blue.
Strangest problems of life seem clearing; but clouds sweep between-Is my journey's end coming?
My legs feel faint; like his who has footed it all day.
Feel thy heart,-beats it yet?-Stir thyself, Starbuck!-stave it off-move, move! speak aloud!-Mast-head there!
Ha! ha!" Suddenly the waters around them slowly swelled in broad circles; then quickly upheaved, as if sideways sliding from a submerged berg of ice, swiftly rising to the surface.
A low rumbling sound was heard; a subterraneous hum; and then all held their breaths; as bedraggled with trailing ropes, and harpoons, and lances, a vast form shot lengthwise, but obliquely from the sea.
Shrouded in a thin drooping veil of mist, it hovered for a moment in the rainbowed air; and then fell swamping back into the deep.
I see thee again.-Aye, and thou goest before; and this, _this_ then is the hearse that thou didst promise.
But I hold thee to the last letter of thy word.
Where is the second hearse?
He seemed swimming with his utmost velocity, and now only intent upon pursuing his own straight path in the sea. "Oh!
Ahab," cried Starbuck, "not too late is it, even now, the third day, to desist.
Moby Dick seeks thee not.
It is thou, thou, that madly seekest him!" Setting sail to the rising wind, the lonely boat was swiftly impelled to leeward, by both oars and canvas.
One after the other, through the portholes, as he sped, he also caught flying glimpses of Stubb and Flask, busying themselves on deck among bundles of new irons and lances.
As he saw all this; as he heard the hammers in the broken boats; far other hammers seemed driving a nail into his heart.
Aye, all alive, now-we near him.
I grow blind; hands! stretch out before me that I may yet grope my way.
The ship!" cried the cringing oarsmen. "Oars! oars!
Slope downwards to thy depths, O sea, that ere it be for ever too late, Ahab may slide this last, last time upon his mark!
I see: the ship! the ship!
Oh, all ye sweet powers of air, now hug me close!
Let not Starbuck die, if die he must, in a woman's fainting fit.
Up helm, I say-ye fools, the jaw! the jaw!
Is this the end of all my bursting prayers? all my life-long fidelities? Oh, Ahab, Ahab, lo, thy work.
He turns to meet us!
Oh, his unappeasable brow drives on towards one, whose duty tells him he cannot depart.
My God, stand by me now!" "Stand not by me, but stand under me, whoever you are that will now help Stubb; for Stubb, too, sticks here.
I grin at thee, thou grinning whale!
Who ever helped Stubb, or kept Stubb awake, but Stubb's own unwinking eye?
And now poor Stubb goes to bed upon a mattrass that is all too soft; would it were stuffed with brushwood!
Look ye, sun, moon, and stars!
I call ye assassins of as good a fellow as ever spouted up his ghost.
For all that, I would yet ring glasses with ye, would ye but hand the cup!
Oh, oh! oh, oh! thou grinning whale, but there'll be plenty of gulping soon!
Why fly ye not, O Ahab!
For me, off shoes and jacket to it; let Stubb die in his drawers!
A most mouldy and over salted death, though;-cherries! cherries! cherries!
Oh, Flask, for one red cherry ere we die!" "Cherries?
I only wish that we were where they grow.
Retribution, swift vengeance, eternal malice were in his whole aspect, and spite of all that mortal man could do, the solid white buttress of his forehead smote the ship's starboard bow, till men and timbers reeled.
Some fell flat upon their faces.
Like dislodged trucks, the heads of the harpooneers aloft shook on their bull-like necks.
Through the breach, they heard the waters pour, as mountain torrents down a flume. "The ship!
Oh! ye three unsurrendered spires of mine; thou uncracked keel; and only god-bullied hull; thou firm deck, and haughty helm, and Pole-pointed prow,-death-glorious ship! must ye then perish, and without me?
Am I cut off from the last fond pride of meanest shipwrecked captains?
Oh, lonely death on lonely life!
Oh, now I feel my topmost greatness lies in my topmost grief.
Ho, ho! from all your furthest bounds, pour ye now in, ye bold billows of my whole foregone life, and top this one piled comber of my death!
Towards thee I roll, thou all-destroying but unconquering whale; to the last I grapple with thee; from hell's heart I stab at thee; for hate's sake I spit my last breath at thee.
Ahab stooped to clear it; he did clear it; but the flying turn caught him round the neck, and voicelessly as Turkish mutes bowstring their victim, he was shot out of the boat, ere the crew knew he was gone.
Great God, where is the ship?
So, floating on the margin of the ensuing scene, and in full sight of it, when the half-spent suction of the sunk ship reached me, I was then, but slowly, drawn towards the closing vortex.
When I reached it, it had subsided to a creamy pool.
Round and round, then, and ever contracting towards the button-like black bubble at the axis of that slowly wheeling circle, like another Ixion I did revolve.
Buoyed up by that coffin, for almost one whole day and night, I floated on a soft and dirge-like main.
The unharming sharks, they glided by as if with padlocks on their mouths; the savage sea-hawks sailed with sheathed beaks.
On the second day, a sail drew near, nearer, and picked me up at last.
Peter Pan [PETER AND WENDY] by J.
Barrie [James Matthew Barrie] A Millennium Fulcrum Edition produced in 1991 by Duncan Research.
Note that while a copyright was initially claimed for the labor involved in digitization, that copyright claim is not consistent with current copyright requirements.
This text, which matches the 1911 original publication, is in the public domain in the US. Contents Chapter I.
PETER BREAKS THROUGH Chapter II.
COME AWAY, COME AWAY! Chapter IV.
THE ISLAND COME TRUE Chapter VI.
THE LITTLE HOUSE Chapter VII.
THE HOME UNDER THE GROUND Chapter VIII.
THE MERMAIDS' LAGOON Chapter IX.
THE NEVER BIRD Chapter X.
THE HAPPY HOME Chapter XI.
THE CHILDREN ARE CARRIED OFF Chapter XIII.
DO YOU BELIEVE IN FAIRIES? Chapter XIV.
THE PIRATE SHIP Chapter XV.
HOOK OR ME THIS TIME" Chapter XVI.
THE RETURN HOME Chapter XVII.
WHEN WENDY GREW UP Chapter I. PETER BREAKS THROUGH All children, except one, grow up.
They soon know that they will grow up, and the way Wendy knew was this.
One day when she was two years old she was playing in a garden, and she plucked another flower and ran with it to her mother.
I suppose she must have looked rather delightful, for Mrs. Darling put her hand to her heart and cried, "Oh, why can't you remain like this for ever!
This was all that passed between them on the subject, but henceforth Wendy knew that she must grow up.
You always know after you are two.
Two is the beginning of the end. Of course they lived at 14, and until Wendy came her mother was the chief one.
She was a lovely lady, with a romantic mind and such a sweet mocking mouth.
He got all of her, except the innermost box and the kiss.
He never knew about the box, and in time he gave up trying for the kiss.
Wendy thought Napoleon could have got it, but I can picture him trying, and then going off in a passion, slamming the door. Mr. Darling used to boast to Wendy that her mother not only loved him but respected him.
He was one of those deep ones who know about stocks and shares.
They were Mrs. Darling's guesses. Wendy came first, then John, then Michael. For a week or two after Wendy came it was doubtful whether they would be able to keep her, as she was another mouth to feed.
Mr. Darling was frightfully proud of her, but he was very honourable, and he sat on the edge of Mrs. Darling's bed, holding her hand and calculating expenses, while she looked at him imploringly.
But she was prejudiced in Wendy's favour, and he was really the grander character of the two. "Remember mumps," he warned her almost threateningly, and off he went again.
As they were poor, owing to the amount of milk the children drank, this nurse was a prim Newfoundland dog, called Nana, who had belonged to no one in particular until the Darlings engaged her.
She proved to be quite a treasure of a nurse.
How thorough she was at bath-time, and up at any moment of the night if one of her charges made the slightest cry.
Of course her kennel was in the nursery.
She had a genius for knowing when a cough is a thing to have no patience with and when it needs stocking around your throat.
She believed to her last day in old-fashioned remedies like rhubarb leaf, and made sounds of contempt over all this new-fangled talk about germs, and so on.
It was a lesson in propriety to see her escorting the children to school, walking sedately by their side when they were well behaved, and butting them back into line if they strayed.
On John's footer days she never once forgot his sweater, and she usually carried an umbrella in her mouth in case of rain.
There is a room in the basement of Miss Fulsom's school where the nurses wait.
They sat on forms, while Nana lay on the floor, but that was the only difference. They affected to ignore her as of an inferior social status to themselves, and she despised their light talk.
He had sometimes a feeling that she did not admire him.
I know she admires you tremendously, George," Mrs. Darling would assure him, and then she would sign to the children to be specially nice to father.
Lovely dances followed, in which the only other servant, Liza, was sometimes allowed to join.
Such a midget she looked in her long skirt and maid's cap, though she had sworn, when engaged, that she would never see ten again.
The gaiety of those romps! And gayest of all was Mrs. Darling, who would pirouette so wildly that all you could see of her was the kiss, and then if you had dashed at her you might have got it.
There never was a simpler happier family until the coming of Peter Pan. Mrs. Darling first heard of Peter when she was tidying up her children's minds.
It is the nightly custom of every good mother after her children are asleep to rummage in their minds and put things straight for next morning, repacking into their proper places the many articles that have wandered during the day.
If you could keep awake (but of course you can't) you would see your own mother doing this, and you would find it very interesting to watch her.
It is quite like tidying up drawers.
John's, for instance, had a lagoon with flamingoes flying over it at which John was shooting, while Michael, who was very small, had a flamingo with lagoons flying over it.
John lived in a boat turned upside down on the sands, Michael in a wigwam, Wendy in a house of leaves deftly sewn together.
On these magic shores children at play are for ever beaching their coracles.
When you play at it by day with the chairs and table-cloth, it is not in the least alarming, but in the two minutes before you go to sleep it becomes very real.
That is why there are night-lights. Occasionally in her travels through her children's minds Mrs. Darling found things she could not understand, and of these quite the most perplexing was the word Peter.
She knew of no Peter, and yet he was here and there in John and Michael's minds, while Wendy's began to be scrawled all over with him.
The name stood out in bolder letters than any of the other words, and as Mrs. Darling gazed she felt that it had an oddly cocky appearance. "Yes, he is rather cocky," Wendy admitted with regret.
There were odd stories about him, as that when children died he went part of the way with them, so that they should not be frightened.
She meant that he was her size in both mind and body; she didn't know how she knew, she just knew it. Mrs. Darling consulted Mr. Darling, but he smiled pooh-pooh.
Mark my words," he said, "it is some nonsense Nana has been putting into their heads; just the sort of idea a dog would have.
It was in this casual way that Wendy one morning made a disquieting revelation.
Unfortunately she never woke, so she didn't know how she knew, she just knew. "What nonsense you talk, precious.
She was in a hurry to get her breakfast. Oh, surely she must have been dreaming. But, on the other hand, there were the leaves.
Mrs. Darling examined them very carefully; they were skeleton leaves, but she was sure they did not come from any tree that grew in England.
She crawled about the floor, peering at it with a candle for marks of a strange foot.
She rattled the poker up the chimney and tapped the walls.
The fire was warm, however, and the nursery dimly lit by three night-lights, and presently the sewing lay on Mrs. Darling's lap.
Then her head nodded, oh, so gracefully.
Look at the four of them, Wendy and Michael over there, John here, and Mrs. Darling by the fire.
There should have been a fourth night-light. While she slept she had a dream.
She dreamt that the Neverland had come too near and that a strange boy had broken through from it.
He did not alarm her, for she thought she had seen him before in the faces of many women who have no children.
Perhaps he is to be found in the faces of some mothers also.
If you or I or Wendy had been there we should have seen that he was very like Mrs. Darling's kiss.
He was a lovely boy, clad in skeleton leaves and the juices that ooze out of trees but the most entrancing thing about him was that he had all his first teeth.
When he saw she was a grown-up, he gnashed the little pearls at her. Chapter II. THE SHADOW Mrs. Darling screamed, and, as if in answer to a bell, the door opened, and Nana entered, returned from her evening out.
She growled and sprang at the boy, who leapt lightly through the window.
Ah me! The opportunity came a week later, on that never-to-be-forgotten Friday.
I, George Darling, did it. _Mea culpa, mea culpa_.
Many a time it was Mr. Darling who put the handkerchief to Nana's eyes. "That fiend!
Nana, it isn't six o'clock yet.
Oh dear, oh dear, I shan't love you any more, Nana.
I tell you I won't be bathed, I won't, I won't!" Then Mrs. Darling had come in, wearing her white evening-gown.
She had dressed early because Wendy so loved to see her in her evening-gown, with the necklace George had given her.
She was wearing Wendy's bracelet on her arm; she had asked for the loan of it.
Mr. Darling would say, scorning himself; and indeed he had been like a tornado. Perhaps there was some excuse for him.
He, too, had been dressing for the party, and all had gone well with him until he came to his tie.
It is an astounding thing to have to tell, but this man, though he knew about stocks and shares, had no real mastery of his tie.
Sometimes the thing yielded to him without a contest, but there were occasions when it would have been better for the house if he had swallowed his pride and used a made-up tie. This was such an occasion.
He came rushing into the nursery with the crumpled little brute of a tie in his hand. "Why, what is the matter, father dear?" "Matter!" he yelled; he really yelled.
This tie, it will not tie.
Round the bed-post! Oh yes, twenty times have I made it up round the bed-post, but round my neck, no!
They were not only new trousers, but they were the first he had ever had with braid on them, and he had had to bite his lip to prevent the tears coming.
It was an opportunity, his wife felt, for telling him about the boy.
You will never carry the bottle in your mouth again, Nana, and it is all my fault." Strong man though he was, there is no doubt that he had behaved rather foolishly over the medicine.
If he had a weakness, it was for thinking that all his life he had taken medicine boldly, and so now, when Michael dodged the spoon in Nana's mouth, he had said reprovingly, "Be a man, Michael." "Won't; won't!
Mrs. Darling left the room to get a chocolate for him, and Mr. Darling thought this showed want of firmness. "Mother, don't pamper him," he called after her.
Michael, when I was your age I took medicine without a murmur.
What he did not know was that the faithful Liza had found it, and put it back on his wash-stand. "I know where it is, father," Wendy cried, always glad to be of service.
I'll bring it," and she was off before he could stop her. Immediately his spirits sank in the strangest way. "John," he said, shuddering, "it's most beastly stuff.
I thought you took it quite easily, father." "That is not the point," he retorted.
The point is, that there is more in my glass than in Michael's spoon.
His proud heart was nearly bursting.
Why not both take it at the same time?" "Certainly," said Mr. Darling.
Are you ready, Michael?" Wendy gave the words, one, two, three, and Michael took his medicine, but Mr. Darling slipped his behind his back. There was a yell of rage from Michael, and "O father!
Wendy exclaimed. "What do you mean by 'O father'?
I meant to take mine, but I-I missed it." It was dreadful the way all the three were looking at him, just as if they did not admire him.
Look here, all of you," he said entreatingly, as soon as Nana had gone into the bathroom.
I have just thought of a splendid joke.
O George," she said, "it's your medicine!" "It was only a joke," he roared, while she comforted her boys, and Wendy hugged Nana.
Much good," he said bitterly, "my wearing myself to the bone trying to be funny in this house." And still Wendy hugged Nana.
Coddle her! Nobody coddles me.
I am only the breadwinner, why should I be coddled-why, why, why!" "George," Mrs. Darling entreated him, "not so loud; the servants will hear you.
Somehow they had got into the way of calling Liza the servants. "Let them!" he answered recklessly.
Bring in the whole world.
But I refuse to allow that dog to lord it in my nursery for an hour longer." The children wept, and Nana ran to him beseechingly, but he waved her back.
He felt he was a strong man again.
He was determined to show who was master in that house, and when commands would not draw Nana from the kennel, he lured her out of it with honeyed words, and seizing her roughly, dragged her from the nursery.
He was ashamed of himself, and yet he did it.
It was all owing to his too affectionate nature, which craved for admiration.
It was securely fastened. She looked out, and the night was peppered with stars.
They were crowding round the house, as if curious to see what was to take place there, but she did not notice this, nor that one or two of the smaller ones winked at her.
Mother," he cried, "I'm glad of you.
They were already the only persons in the street, and all the stars were watching them.
Stars are beautiful, but they may not take an active part in anything, they must just look on for ever.
It is a punishment put on them for something they did so long ago that no star now knows what it was.
So the older ones have become glassy-eyed and seldom speak (winking is the star language), but the little ones still wonder.
It was not really a light; it made this light by flashing about so quickly, but when it came to rest for a second you saw it was a fairy, no longer than your hand, but still growing.
It was a girl called Tinker Bell exquisitely gowned in a skeleton leaf, cut low and square, through which her figure could be seen to the best advantage.
It is the fairy language.
You ordinary children can never hear it, but if you were to hear it you would know that you had heard it once before. Tink said that the shadow was in the big box.
She meant the chest of drawers, and Peter jumped at the drawers, scattering their contents to the floor with both hands, as kings toss ha'pence to the crowd.
He tried to stick it on with soap from the bathroom, but that also failed.
A shudder passed through Peter, and he sat on the floor and cried. His sobs woke Wendy, and she sat up in bed.
She was much pleased, and bowed beautifully to him from the bed. "What's your name?" he asked. "Wendy Moira Angela Darling," she replied with some satisfaction.
What is your name?" "Peter Pan." She was already sure that he must be Peter, but it did seem a comparatively short name. "Is that all?" "Yes," he said rather sharply.
Not only had he no mother, but he had not the slightest desire to have one.
He thought them very over-rated persons.
I was crying because I can't get my shadow to stick on.
Besides, I wasn't crying." "It has come off?" "Yes." Then Wendy saw the shadow on the floor, looking so draggled, and she was frightfully sorry for Peter.
How awful!" she said, but she could not help smiling when she saw that he had been trying to stick it on with soap.
How exactly like a boy! Fortunately she knew at once what to do.
It must be sewn on," she said, just a little patronisingly. "What's sewn?" he asked. "You're dreadfully ignorant." "No, I'm not." But she was exulting in his ignorance.
Alas, he had already forgotten that he owed his bliss to Wendy.
He thought he had attached the shadow himself.
How clever I am!" he crowed rapturously, "oh, the cleverness of me!" It is humiliating to have to confess that this conceit of Peter was one of his most fascinating qualities.
To put it with brutal frankness, there never was a cockier boy. But for the moment Wendy was shocked.
Wendy," he said, "don't withdraw.
I can't help crowing, Wendy, when I'm pleased with myself.
Still she would not look up, though she was listening eagerly.
He was extraordinarily agitated now.
I don't want ever to be a man," he said with passion.
I want always to be a little boy and to have fun.
She poured out questions about them, to his surprise, for they were rather a nuisance to him, getting in his way and so on, and indeed he sometimes had to give them a hiding.
You don't hear her, do you?" and they both listened. "The only sound I hear," said Wendy, "is like a tinkle of bells." "Well, that's Tink, that's the fairy language.
I think I hear her too." The sound came from the chest of drawers, and Peter made a merry face. No one could ever look quite so merry as Peter, and the loveliest of gurgles was his laugh.
He had his first laugh still. "Wendy," he whispered gleefully, "I do believe I shut her up in the drawer!" He let poor Tink out of the drawer, and she flew about the nursery screaming with fury.
You shouldn't say such things," Peter retorted. "Of course I'm very sorry, but how could I know you were in the drawer?" Wendy was not listening to him.
O Peter," she cried, "if she would only stand still and let me see her!" "They hardly ever stand still," he said, but for one moment Wendy saw the romantic figure come to rest on the cuckoo clock.
O the lovely!" she cried, though Tink's face was still distorted with passion. "Tink," said Peter amiably, "this lady says she wishes you were her fairy." Tinker Bell answered insolently. "What does she say, Peter?" He had to translate.
She is not very polite.
She says you are a great ugly girl, and that she is my fairy." He tried to argue with Tink.
You know you can't be my fairy, Tink, because I am an gentleman and you are a lady." To this Tink replied in these words, "You silly ass," and disappeared into the bathroom.
If they are not claimed in seven days they are sent far away to the Neverland to defray expenses.
I'm captain." "What fun it must be!" "Yes," said cunning Peter, "but we are rather lonely.
You see we have no female companionship." "Are none of the others girls?" "Oh, no; girls, you know, are much too clever to fall out of their prams." This flattered Wendy immensely.
I think," she said, "it is perfectly lovely the way you talk about girls; John there just despises us." For reply Peter rose and kicked John out of bed, blankets and all; one kick.
This seemed to Wendy rather forward for a first meeting, and she told him with spirit that he was not captain in her house.
However, John continued to sleep so placidly on the floor that she allowed him to remain there.
And I know you meant to be kind," she said, relenting, "so you may give me a kiss." For the moment she had forgotten his ignorance about kisses.
I thought you would want it back," he said a little bitterly, and offered to return her the thimble. "Oh dear," said the nice Wendy, "I don't mean a kiss, I mean a thimble." "What's that?" "It's like this.
She kissed him. "Funny!" said Peter gravely.
Now shall I give you a thimble?" "If you wish to," said Wendy, keeping her head erect this time. Peter thimbled her, and almost immediately she screeched.
What is it, Wendy?" "It was exactly as if someone were pulling my hair." "That must have been Tink.
Peter could not understand why, but Wendy understood, and she was just slightly disappointed when he admitted that he came to the nursery window not to see her but to listen to stories. "You see, I don't know any stories.
None of the lost boys knows any stories." "How perfectly awful," Wendy said. "Do you know," Peter asked "why swallows build in the eaves of houses? It is to listen to the stories.
With tails?" "Such long tails." "Oh," cried Wendy, "to see a mermaid!" He had become frightfully cunning.
Wendy," he said, "how we should all respect you." She was wriggling her body in distress.
None of us has any pockets." How could she resist.
Of course it's awfully fascinating!" she cried. "Peter, would you teach John and Michael to fly too?" "If you like," he said indifferently, and she ran to John and Michael and shook them.
Wake up," she cried, "Peter Pan has come and he is to teach us to fly." John rubbed his eyes.
Then I shall get up," he said.
Of course he was on the floor already.
Hallo," he said, "I am up!" Michael was up by this time also, looking as sharp as a knife with six blades and a saw, but Peter suddenly signed silence.
Their faces assumed the awful craftiness of children listening for sounds from the grown-up world.
All was as still as salt.
Then everything was right. No, stop!
Nana, who had been barking distressfully all the evening, was quiet now.
It was her silence they had heard. "Out with the light!
Quick!" cried John, taking command for the only time throughout the whole adventure.
And thus when Liza entered, holding Nana, the nursery seemed quite its old self, very dark, and you would have sworn you heard its three wicked inmates breathing angelically as they slept.
She thought the best way of getting a little quiet was to take Nana to the nursery for a moment, but in custody of course. "There, you suspicious brute," she said, not sorry that Nana was in disgrace.
They are perfectly safe, aren't they?
Every one of the little angels sound asleep in bed.
Listen to their gentle breathing." Here Michael, encouraged by his success, breathed so loudly that they were nearly detected.
Nana knew that kind of breathing, and she tried to drag herself out of Liza's clutches. But Liza was dense.
No more of it, Nana," she said sternly, pulling her out of the room.
Bring master and missus home from the party!
Why, that was just what she wanted.
Do you think she cared whether she was whipped so long as her charges were safe?
Unfortunately Liza returned to her puddings, and Nana, seeing that no help would come from her, strained and strained at the chain until at last she broke it.
In another moment she had burst into the dining-room of 27 and flung up her paws to heaven, her most expressive way of making a communication.
I've got it now, Wendy!" cried John, but soon he found he had not.
Peter gave Wendy a hand at first, but had to desist, Tink was so indignant. Up and down they went, and round and round.
Mr. Darling would have rushed upstairs, but Mrs. Darling signed him to go softly.
She even tried to make her heart go softly. Will they reach the nursery in time?
Once again the stars blew the window open, and that smallest star of all called out: "Cave, Peter!" Then Peter knew that there was not a moment to lose.
Come," he cried imperiously, and soared out at once into the night, followed by John and Michael and Wendy. Mr. and Mrs. Darling and Nana rushed into the nursery too late.
They were flying over the sea before this thought began to disturb Wendy seriously.
John thought it was their second sea and their third night. Sometimes it was dark and sometimes light, and now they were very cold and again too warm.
Did they really feel hungry at times, or were they merely pretending, because Peter had such a jolly new way of feeding them?
The awful thing was that Peter thought this funny. "There he goes again!" he would cry gleefully, as Michael suddenly dropped like a stone. "Save him, save him!" cried Wendy, looking with horror at the cruel sea far below.
What could we do if he were to leave us!" "We could go back," Michael said. "How could we ever find our way back without him?" "Well, then, we could go on," said John. "That is the awful thing, John.
And even though we became good at picking up food, see how we bump against clouds and things if he is not near to give us a hand." Indeed they were constantly bumping.
They could now fly strongly, though they still kicked far too much; but if they saw a cloud in front of them, the more they tried to avoid it, the more certainly did they bump into it.
If Nana had been with them, she would have had a bandage round Michael's forehead by this time. Peter was not with them for the moment, and they felt rather lonely up there by themselves.
He could go so much faster than they that he would suddenly shoot out of sight, to have some adventure in which they had no share.
Wendy was sure of it.
She saw recognition come into his eyes as he was about to pass them the time of day and go on; once even she had to call him by name. "I'm Wendy," she said agitatedly. He was very sorry.
I say, Wendy," he whispered to her, "always if you see me forgetting you, just keep on saying 'I'm Wendy,' and then I'll remember." Of course this was rather unsatisfactory.
Indeed they would have slept longer, but Peter tired quickly of sleeping, and soon he would cry in his captain voice, "We get off here.
Wendy, I do believe that's your little whelp!" "There's my boat, John, with her sides stove in!" "No, it isn't.
Why, we burned your boat." "That's her, at any rate.
I say, John, I see the smoke of the redskin camp!" "Where?
Show me, and I'll tell you by the way smoke curls whether they are on the war-path." "There, just across the Mysterious River." "I see now.
Then unexplored patches arose in it and spread, black shadows moved about in them, the roar of the beasts of prey was quite different now, and above all, you lost the certainty that you would win.
His careless manner had gone at last, his eyes were sparkling, and a tingle went through them every time they touched his body.
They were now over the fearsome island, flying so low that sometimes a tree grazed their feet.
Nothing horrid was visible in the air, yet their progress had become slow and laboured, exactly as if they were pushing their way through hostile forces.
Sometimes they hung in the air until Peter had beaten on it with his fists. "They don't want us to land," he explained. "Who are they?
Wendy whispered, shuddering. But he could not or would not say.
Having done these things, he went on again. His courage was almost appalling.
If you like, we'll go down and kill him." "I don't see him," John said after a long pause. "I do." "Suppose," John said, a little huskily, "he were to wake up." Peter spoke indignantly.
You don't think I would kill him while he was sleeping!
I would wake him first, and then kill him.
That's the way I always do." "I say!
Do you kill many?" "Tons." John said "How ripping," but decided to have tea first.
Hook?" "Ay." Then indeed Michael began to cry, and even John could speak in gulps only, for they knew Hook's reputation. "He was Blackbeard's bo'sun," John whispered huskily.
He is the worst of them all.
He is the only man of whom Barbecue was afraid." "That's him," said Peter. "What is he like?
That is about the only thing fairies can't do. It just goes out of itself when she falls asleep, same as the stars." "Then tell her to sleep at once," John almost ordered. "She can't sleep except when she's sleepy.
However, they had set off in such a hurry that there was not a pocket between the four of them. He had a happy idea.
John's hat! Tink agreed to travel by hat if it was carried in the hand.
John carried it, though she had hoped to be carried by Peter.
To Michael the loneliness was dreadful.
If only something would make a sound!" he cried. As if in answer to his request, the air was rent by the most tremendous crash he had ever heard.
John was treading the air mechanically, and Michael without knowing how to float was floating. "Are you shot?
John whispered tremulously. "I haven't tried yet," Michael whispered back. We know now that no one had been hit.
Fairies have to be one thing or the other, because being so small they unfortunately have room for one feeling only at a time.
They are, however, allowed to change, only it must be a complete change.
At present she was full of jealousy of Wendy.
She called to Peter and John and Michael, and got only mocking echoes in reply.
She did not yet know that Tink hated her with the fierce hatred of a very woman.
And so, bewildered, and now staggering in her flight, she followed Tink to her doom. Chapter V. THE ISLAND COME TRUE Feeling that Peter was on his way back, the Neverland had again woke into life.
We ought to use the pluperfect and say wakened, but woke is better and was always used by Peter. In his absence things are usually quiet on the island.
The fairies take an hour longer in the morning, the beasts attend to their young, the redskins feed heavily for six days and nights, and when pirates and lost boys meet they merely bite their thumbs at each other.
The lost boys were out looking for Peter, the pirates were out looking for the lost boys, the redskins were out looking for the pirates, and the beasts were out looking for the redskins.
They have therefore become very sure-footed. The first to pass is Tootles, not the least brave but the most unfortunate of all that gallant band.
This ill-luck had given a gentle melancholy to his countenance, but instead of souring his nature had sweetened it, so that he was quite the humblest of the boys.
Poor kind Tootles, there is danger in the air for you to-night.
Take care lest an adventure is now offered you, which, if accepted, will plunge you in deepest woe.
Tootles, the fairy Tink, who is bent on mischief this night is looking for a tool, and she thinks you are the most easily tricked of the boys.
He thinks he remembers the days before he was lost, with their manners and customs, and this has given his nose an offensive tilt.
Last come the Twins, who cannot be described because we should be sure to be describing the wrong one.
That gigantic black behind him has had many names since he dropped the one with which dusky mothers still terrify their children on the banks of the Guadjo-mo.
Mullins and Alf Mason and many another ruffian long known and feared on the Spanish Main. In the midst of them, the blackest and largest in that dark setting, reclined James Hook, or as he wrote himself, Jas.
Hook, of whom it is said he was the only man that the Sea-Cook feared.
He lay at his ease in a rough chariot drawn and propelled by his men, and instead of a right hand he had the iron hook with which ever and anon he encouraged them to increase their pace.
As dogs this terrible man treated and addressed them, and as dogs they obeyed him.
In person he was cadaverous and blackavized, and his hair was dressed in long curls, which at a little distance looked like black candles, and gave a singularly threatening expression to his handsome countenance.
His eyes were of the blue of the forget-me-not, and of a profound melancholy, save when he was plunging his hook into you, at which time two red spots appeared in them and lit them up horribly.
But undoubtedly the grimmest part of him was his iron claw. Let us now kill a pirate, to show Hook's method.
As they pass, Skylights lurches clumsily against him, ruffling his lace collar; the hook shoots forth, there is a tearing sound and one screech, then the body is kicked aside, and the pirates pass on.
He has not even taken the cigars from his mouth. Such is the terrible man against whom Peter Pan is pitted.
Which will win? On the trail of the pirates, stealing noiselessly down the war-path, which is not visible to inexperienced eyes, come the redskins, every one of them with his eyes peeled.
They carry tomahawks and knives, and their naked bodies gleam with paint and oil.
Strung around them are scalps, of boys as well as of pirates, for these are the Piccaninny tribe, and not to be confused with the softer-hearted Delawares or the Hurons.
In the van, on all fours, is Great Big Little Panther, a brave of so many scalps that in his present position they somewhat impede his progress.
Bringing up the rear, the place of greatest danger, comes Tiger Lily, proudly erect, a princess in her own right.
Observe how they pass over fallen twigs without making the slightest noise.
The only sound to be heard is their somewhat heavy breathing.
The fact is that they are all a little fat just now after the heavy gorging, but in time they will work this off.
Their tongues are hanging out, they are hungry to-night. When they have passed, comes the last figure of all, a gigantic crocodile.
We shall see for whom she is looking presently. The crocodile passes, but soon the boys appear again, for the procession must continue indefinitely until one of the parties stops or changes its pace.
Then quickly they will be on top of each other. All are keeping a sharp look-out in front, but none suspects that the danger may be creeping up from behind.
This shows how real the island was. The first to fall out of the moving circle was the boys.
I don't know what a cheque-book is, but I should just love to give my mother one." While they talked they heard a distant sound.
They are no longer there. Rabbits could not have disappeared more quickly. I will tell you where they are.
With the exception of Nibs, who has darted away to reconnoitre, they are already in their home under the ground, a very delightful residence of which we shall see a good deal presently.
But how have they reached it? for there is no entrance to be seen, not so much as a large stone, which if rolled away, would disclose the mouth of a cave.
Look closely, however, and you may note that there are here seven large trees, each with a hole in its hollow trunk as large as a boy.
These are the seven entrances to the home under the ground, for which Hook has been searching in vain these many moons.
Will he find it tonight? As the pirates advanced, the quick eye of Starkey sighted Nibs disappearing through the wood, and at once his pistol flashed out.
But an iron claw gripped his shoulder. "Captain, let go!" he cried, writhing. Now for the first time we hear the voice of Hook.
It was a black voice. "Put back that pistol first," it said threateningly. "It was one of those boys you hate.
I could have shot him dead." "Ay, and the sound would have brought Tiger Lily's redskins upon us.
Do you want to lose your scalp?" "Shall I after him, Captain," asked pathetic Smee, "and tickle him with Johnny Corkscrew?
Smee had pleasant names for everything, and his cutlass was Johnny Corkscrew, because he wiggled it in the wound.
One could mention many lovable traits in Smee.
For instance, after killing, it was his spectacles he wiped instead of his weapon. "Johnny's a silent fellow," he reminded Hook. "Not now, Smee," Hook said darkly.
He is only one, and I want to mischief all the seven.
Scatter and look for them." The pirates disappeared among the trees, and in a moment their Captain and Smee were alone.
Twas he cut off my arm.
He brandished the hook threateningly.
I've waited long to shake his hand with this.
I want Peter Pan, who first gave the brute its taste for me." He sat down on a large mushroom, and now there was a quiver in his voice.
Smee," he said huskily, "that crocodile would have had me before this, but by a lucky chance it swallowed a clock which goes tick tick inside it, and so before it can reach me I hear the tick and bolt.
He laughed, but in a hollow way. "Some day," said Smee, "the clock will run down, and then he'll get you." Hook wetted his dry lips.
Ay," he said, "that's the fear that haunts me." Since sitting down he had felt curiously warm.
Smee," he said, "this seat is hot.
Stranger still, smoke began at once to ascend.
The pirates looked at each other.
A chimney!" they both exclaimed. They had indeed discovered the chimney of the home under the ground.
It was the custom of the boys to stop it with a mushroom when enemies were in the neighbourhood. Not only smoke came out of it.
There came also children's voices, for so safe did the boys feel in their hiding-place that they were gaily chattering.
The pirates listened grimly, and then replaced the mushroom.
They looked around them and noted the holes in the seven trees. "Did you hear them say Peter Pan's from home?
Smee whispered, fidgeting with Johnny Corkscrew. Hook nodded.
He stood for a long time lost in thought, and at last a curdling smile lit up his swarthy face.
The silly moles had not the sense to see that they did not need a door apiece.
That shows they have no mother.
We will leave the cake on the shore of the Mermaids' Lagoon.
These boys are always swimming about there, playing with the mermaids.
They will find the cake and they will gobble it up, because, having no mother, they don't know how dangerous 'tis to eat rich damp cake.
He burst into laughter, not hollow laughter now, but honest laughter.
It had passed the redskins, who were now on the trail of the other pirates.
It oozed on after Hook. Once more the boys emerged into the open; but the dangers of the night were not yet over, for presently Nibs rushed breathless into their midst, pursued by a pack of wolves.
But it was not wolves he saw. "I have seen a wonderfuller thing," he cried, as they gathered round him eagerly.
Let us do what Peter wishes!" cried the simple boys.
Quick, bows and arrows!" All but Tootles popped down their trees.
He had a bow and arrow with him, and Tink noted it, and rubbed her little hands. "Quick, Tootles, quick," she screamed.
Peter will be so pleased." Tootles excitedly fitted the arrow to his bow.
Peter will be so pleased with me." Overhead Tinker Bell shouted "Silly ass!" and darted into hiding.
The others did not hear her.
They had crowded round Wendy, and as they looked a terrible silence fell upon the wood.
If Wendy's heart had been beating they would all have heard it. Slightly was the first to speak.
This is no bird," he said in a scared voice.
I think this must be a lady." "A lady?" said Tootles, and fell a-trembling. "And we have killed her," Nibs said hoarsely. They all whipped off their caps. "Now I see," Curly said: "Peter was bringing her to us.
When ladies used to come to me in dreams, I said, 'Pretty mother, pretty mother.
They heard Peter crow. "Peter!" they cried, for it was always thus that he signalled his return. "Hide her," they whispered, and gathered hastily around Wendy.
She flew this way." "Ah me!" one voice said, and another said, "Oh, mournful day." Tootles rose.
Perhaps she is frightened at being dead." He thought of hopping off in a comic sort of way till he was out of sight of her, and then never going near the spot any more.
They would all have been glad to follow if he had done this. But there was the arrow.
Strike, Peter," he said firmly, "strike true." Twice did Peter raise the arrow, and twice did his hand fall.
Nibs bent over her and listened reverently.
I think she said, 'Poor Tootles,'" he whispered. "She lives," Peter said briefly. Slightly cried instantly, "The Wendy lady lives." Then Peter knelt beside her and found his button.
You remember she had put it on a chain that she wore round her neck. "See," he said, "the arrow struck against this.
It is the kiss I gave her.
It has saved her life." "I remember kisses," Slightly interposed quickly, "let me see it.
Ay, that's a kiss." Peter did not hear him.
He was begging Wendy to get better quickly, so that he could show her the mermaids.
Begone from me for ever." She flew on to his shoulder and pleaded, but he brushed her off.
Not until Wendy again raised her arm did he relent sufficiently to say, "Well, not for ever, but for a whole week." Do you think Tinker Bell was grateful to Wendy for raising her arm?
Oh dear no, never wanted to pinch her so much.
Let us build a little house round her." They were all delighted.
Quick," he ordered them, "bring me each of you the best of what we have.
As they dragged along the ground they fell asleep standing, stopped, woke up, moved another step and slept again. "John, John," Michael would cry, "wake up!
He was very busy at the moment measuring Wendy with his feet to see how large a house she would need.
Of course he meant to leave room for chairs and a table.
Look at them!" he cried. "Curly," said Peter in his most captainy voice, "see that these boys help in the building of the house." "Ay, ay, sir." "Build a house?" exclaimed John. "For the Wendy," said Curly. "For Wendy?
Why, she is only a girl!" "That," explained Curly, "is why we are her servants." "You?
Wendy's servants!" "Yes," said Peter, "and you also.
Away with them." The astounded brothers were dragged away to hack and hew and carry. "Chairs and a fender first," Peter ordered.
Then we shall build a house round them." "Ay," said Slightly, "that is how a house is built; it all comes back to me." Peter thought of everything.
It was an anxious moment when the glass thing was withdrawn. "How is she?" inquired Peter. "Tut, tut, tut," said Slightly, "this has cured her." "I am glad!
Oh, lovely!" "Perhaps she is going to sing in her sleep," said Peter.
The house was quite beautiful, and no doubt Wendy was very cosy within, though, of course, they could no longer see her.
Peter strode up and down, ordering finishing touches.
Nothing escaped his eagle eyes.
There's no chimney," Peter said; "we must have a chimney." "It certainly does need a chimney," said John importantly.
This gave Peter an idea.
He snatched the hat off John's head, knocked out the bottom, and put the hat on the roof.
The little house was so pleased to have such a capital chimney that, as if to say thank you, smoke immediately began to come out of the hat. Now really and truly it was finished.
If a lady, what would she be like? The door opened and a lady came out.
Of course it's frightfully fascinating, but you see I am only a little girl.
I have no real experience." "That doesn't matter," said Peter, as if he were the only person present who knew all about it, though he was really the one who knew least.
What we need is just a nice motherly person." "Oh dear!
Wendy said, "you see, I feel that is exactly what I am." "It is, it is," they all cried; "we saw it at once." "Very well," she said, "I will do my best.
Come inside at once, you naughty children; I am sure your feet are damp.
And before I put you to bed I have just time to finish the story of Cinderella." In they went; I don't know how there was room for them, but you can squeeze very tight in the Neverland.
And that was the first of the many joyous evenings they had with Wendy.
The little house looked so cosy and safe in the darkness, with a bright light showing through its blinds, and the chimney smoking beautifully, and Peter standing on guard.
After a time he fell asleep, and some unsteady fairies had to climb over him on their way home from an orgy.
Once you fitted, you drew in your breath at the top, and down you went at exactly the right speed, while to ascend you drew in and let out alternately, and so wriggled up.
And how ardently they grew to love their home under the ground; especially Wendy.
A Never tree tried hard to grow in the centre of the room, but every morning they sawed the trunk through, level with the floor.
There was an enormous fireplace which was in almost any part of the room where you cared to light it, and across this Wendy stretched strings, made of fibre, from which she suspended her washing.
The bed was tilted against the wall by day, and let down at 6:30, when it filled nearly half the room; and all the boys slept in it, except Michael, lying like sardines in a tin.
There was a strict rule against turning round until one gave the signal, when all turned at once.
But there was one recess in the wall, no larger than a bird-cage, which was the private apartment of Tinker Bell.
It could be shut off from the rest of the house by a tiny curtain, which Tink, who was most fastidious, always kept drawn when dressing or undressing.
No woman, however large, could have had a more exquisite boudoir and bed-chamber combined.
The couch, as she always called it, was a genuine Queen Mab, with club legs; and she varied the bedspreads according to what fruit-blossom was in season.
There was a chandelier from Tiddlywinks for the look of the thing, but of course she lit the residence herself.
Really there were whole weeks when, except perhaps with a stocking in the evening, she was never above ground.
The cooking, I can tell you, kept her nose to the pot, and even if there was nothing in it, even if there was no pot, she had to keep watching that it came aboil just the same.
Make-believe was so real to him that during a meal of it you could see him getting rounder.
Well, it very soon discovered that she had come to the island and it found her out, and they just ran into each other's arms.
After that it followed her about everywhere. As time wore on did she think much about the beloved parents she had left behind her?
They were the most ordinary questions-"What was the colour of Mother's eyes?
Which was taller, Father or Mother?
Was Mother blonde or brunette?
Answer all three questions if possible." "(A) Write an essay of not less than 40 words on How I spent my last Holidays, or The Characters of Father and Mother compared.
Only one of these to be attempted.
For one thing he despised all mothers except Wendy, and for another he was the only boy on the island who could neither write nor spell; not the smallest word.
He was above all that sort of thing. By the way, the questions were all written in the past tense.
What was the colour of Mother's eyes, and so on.
To see Peter doing nothing on a stool was a great sight; he could not help looking solemn at such times, to sit still seemed to him such a comic thing to do.
He boasted that he had gone walking for the good of his health.
But she was never quite sure, you know.
To describe them all would require a book as large as an English-Latin, Latin-English Dictionary, and the most we can do is to give one as a specimen of an average hour on the island.
The difficulty is which one to choose. Should we take the brush with the redskins at Slightly Gulch?
It was a sanguinary affair, and especially interesting as showing one of Peter's peculiarities, which was that in the middle of a fight he would suddenly change sides.
At the Gulch, when victory was still in the balance, sometimes leaning this way and sometimes that, he called out, "I'm redskin to-day; what are you, Tootles?
Perhaps a better one would be the night attack by the redskins on the house under the ground, when several of them stuck in the hollow trees and had to be pulled out like corks.
A shorter adventure, and quite as exciting, was Tinker Bell's attempt, with the help of some street fairies, to have the sleeping Wendy conveyed on a great floating leaf to the mainland.
Fortunately the leaf gave way and Wendy woke, thinking it was bath-time, and swam back.
The best way will be to toss for it. I have tossed, and the lagoon has won.
This almost makes one wish that the gulch or the cake or Tink's leaf had won.
But just before they go on fire you see the lagoon.
She was often at the lagoon, however, on sunny days after rain, when the mermaids come up in extraordinary numbers to play with their bubbles.
The bubbles of many colours made in rainbow water they treat as balls, hitting them gaily from one to another with their tails, and trying to keep them in the rainbow till they burst.
The goals are at each end of the rainbow, and the keepers only are allowed to use their hands.
This is the one mark that John has left on the Neverland. It must also have been rather pretty to see the children resting on a rock for half an hour after their mid-day meal.
Wendy insisted on their doing this, and it had to be a real rest even though the meal was make-believe.
So they lay there in the sun, and their bodies glistened in it, while she sat beside them and looked important. It was one such day, and they were all on Marooners' Rock.
She was very busy, stitching. While she stitched a change came to the lagoon.
Little shivers ran over it, and the sun went away and shadows stole across the water, turning it cold.
It had not come, but it had sent that shiver through the sea to say that it was coming.
What was it? There crowded upon her all the stories she had been told of Marooners' Rock, so called because evil captains put sailors on it and leave them there to drown.
But she was a young mother and she did not know this; she thought you simply must stick to your rule about half an hour after the mid-day meal.
So, though fear was upon her, and she longed to hear male voices, she would not waken them.
Even when she heard the sound of muffled oars, though her heart was in her mouth, she did not waken them.
She stood over them to let them have their sleep out.
Was it not brave of Wendy? It was well for those boys then that there was one among them who could sniff danger even in his sleep.
Peter sprang erect, as wide awake at once as a dog, and with one warning cry he roused the others. He stood motionless, one hand to his ear. "Pirates!" he cried.
The others came closer to him.
A strange smile was playing about his face, and Wendy saw it and shuddered.
While that smile was on his face no one dared address him; all they could do was to stand ready to obey.
The order came sharp and incisive. "Dive!" There was a gleam of legs, and instantly the lagoon seemed deserted. Marooners' Rock stood alone in the forbidding waters as if it were itself marooned. The boat drew nearer.
It was the pirate dinghy, with three figures in her, Smee and Starkey, and the third a captive, no other than Tiger Lily.
Her hands and ankles were tied, and she knew what was to be her fate.
Now her fate would help to guard it also.
Wendy was crying, for it was the first tragedy she had seen.
Peter had seen many tragedies, but he had forgotten them all.
He was less sorry than Wendy for Tiger Lily: it was two against one that angered him, and he meant to save her.
Smee gasped. "Better do what the captain orders," said Starkey nervously. "Ay, ay," Smee said, and he cut Tiger Lily's cords.
The real Hook was also in the water. He was swimming to the boat, and as his men showed a light to guide him he had soon reached them.
He was tingling with life and also top-heavy with conceit.
It was the nest I have told you of, floating on the lagoon, and the Never bird was sitting on it. "See," said Hook in answer to Smee's question, "that is a mother.
The nest must have fallen into the water, but would the mother desert her eggs?
They thought it must have been a leaf in the wind.
Do you agree, my bullies?" asked Hook. "There is my hand on it," they both said. "And there is my hook.
He immediately answered in Hook's voice: "Odds, bobs, hammer and tongs, I hear you." In that supreme moment Hook did not blanch, even at the gills, but Smee and Starkey clung to each other in terror. "Who are you, stranger?
If you are Hook," he said almost humbly, "come tell me, who am I?" "A codfish," replied the voice, "only a codfish." "A codfish!
Hook echoed blankly, and it was then, but not till then, that his proud spirit broke.
He saw his men draw back from him. "Have we been captained all this time by a codfish!" they muttered.
It is lowering to our pride." They were his dogs snapping at him, but, tragic figure though he had become, he scarcely heeded them.
Against such fearful evidence it was not their belief in him that he needed, it was his own.
He felt his ego slipping from him.
Don't desert me, bully," he whispered hoarsely to it. In his dark nature there was a touch of the feminine, as in all the great pirates, and it sometimes gave him intuitions.
This answer rang out scornfully. "Boy?" "Yes." "Ordinary boy?" "No!" "Wonderful boy?" To Wendy's pain the answer that rang out this time was "Yes." "Are you in England?" "No." "Are you here?" "Yes." Hook was completely puzzled.
You ask him some questions," he said to the others, wiping his damp brow. Smee reflected.
I can't think of a thing," he said regretfully. "Can't guess, can't guess!" crowed Peter.
First to draw blood was John, who gallantly climbed into the boat and held Starkey.
There was fierce struggle, in which the cutlass was torn from the pirate's grasp.
He wriggled overboard and John leapt after him.
The dinghy drifted away. Here and there a head bobbed up in the water, and there was a flash of steel followed by a cry or a whoop.
In the confusion some struck at their own side.
The corkscrew of Smee got Tootles in the fourth rib, but he was himself pinked in turn by Curly.
Farther from the rock Starkey was pressing Slightly and the twins hard. Where all this time was Peter?
He was seeking bigger game. The others were all brave boys, and they must not be blamed for backing from the pirate captain.
Hook rose to the rock to breathe, and at the same moment Peter scaled it on the opposite side.
The rock was slippery as a ball, and they had to crawl rather than climb.
Neither knew that the other was coming.
Each feeling for a grip met the other's arm: in surprise they raised their heads; their faces were almost touching; so they met. Some of the greatest heroes have confessed that just before they fell to they had a sinking.
Had it been so with Peter at that moment I would admit it.
After all, he was the only man that the Sea-Cook had feared. But Peter had no sinking, he had one feeling only, gladness; and he gnashed his pretty teeth with joy.
Quick as thought he snatched a knife from Hook's belt and was about to drive it home, when he saw that he was higher up the rock than his foe.
It would not have been fighting fair.
He gave the pirate a hand to help him up. It was then that Hook bit him. Not the pain of this but its unfairness was what dazed Peter.
It made him quite helpless.
He could only stare, horrified.
Every child is affected thus the first time he is treated unfairly.
All he thinks he has a right to when he comes to you to be yours is fairness.
After you have been unfair to him he will love you again, but will never afterwards be quite the same boy.
No one ever gets over the first unfairness; no one except Peter.
He often met it, but he always forgot it.
I suppose that was the real difference between him and all the rest. So when he met it now it was like the first time; and he could just stare, helpless.
On ordinary occasions the boys would have swum alongside cheering; but now they were uneasy, for they had lost both Peter and Wendy, and were scouring the lagoon for them, calling them by name.
They found the dinghy and went home in it, shouting "Peter, Wendy" as they went, but no answer came save mocking laughter from the mermaids.
They must be swimming back or flying," the boys concluded.
They were not very anxious, because they had such faith in Peter.
With a last effort Peter pulled her up the rock and then lay down beside her.
Even as he also fainted he saw that the water was rising.
He knew that they would soon be drowned, but he could do no more. As they lay side by side a mermaid caught Wendy by the feet, and began pulling her softly into the water.
Peter, feeling her slip from him, woke with a start, and was just in time to draw her back.
But he had to tell her the truth. "We are on the rock, Wendy," he said, "but it is growing smaller.
I can neither fly nor swim." "Do you mean we shall both be drowned?" "Look how the water is rising." They put their hands over their eyes to shut out the sight.
They thought they would soon be no more.
As they sat thus something brushed against Peter as light as a kiss, and stayed there, as if saying timidly, "Can I be of any use?" It was the tail of a kite, which Michael had made some days before.
Already he had tied the tail round her.
She clung to him; she refused to go without him; but with a "Good-bye, Wendy," he pushed her from the rock; and in a few minutes she was borne out of his sight.
Peter was alone on the lagoon. The rock was very small now; soon it would be submerged.
A tremour ran through him, like a shudder passing over the sea; but on the sea one shudder follows another till there are hundreds of them, and Peter felt just the one.
By working her wings, in a way she had learned since the nest fell into the water, she was able to some extent to guide her strange craft, but by the time Peter recognised her she was very exhausted.
She had come to save him, to give him her nest, though there were eggs in it.
I rather wonder at the bird, for though he had been nice to her, he had also sometimes tormented her.
Well, not only could they not understand each other, but they forgot their manners. "I-want-you-to-get-into-the-nest," the bird called, speaking as slowly and distinctly as possible, "and-then-you-can-drift-ashore, but-I-am-too-tired-to-bring-it-any-nearer-so-you-must-try to-swim-to-it." "What are you quacking about?
Then up she flew; deserting her eggs, so as to make her meaning clear. Then at last he understood, and clutched the nest and waved his thanks to the bird as she fluttered overhead.
The stave was still there, and on it Starkey had hung his hat, a deep tarpaulin, watertight, with a broad brim.
Peter put the eggs into this hat and set it on the lagoon.
It floated beautifully. The Never bird saw at once what he was up to, and screamed her admiration of him; and, alas, Peter crowed his agreement with her.
Then he got into the nest, reared the stave in it as a mast, and hung up his shirt for a sail.
At the same moment the bird fluttered down upon the hat and once more sat snugly on her eggs.
It drifted about till it went to pieces, and often Starkey came to the shore of the lagoon, and with many bitter feelings watched the bird sitting on his hat.
Every boy had adventures to tell; but perhaps the biggest adventure of all was that they were several hours late for bed.
Peter had saved Tiger Lily from a dreadful fate, and now there was nothing she and her braves would not do for him.
All night they sat above, keeping watch over the home under the ground and awaiting the big attack by the pirates which obviously could not be much longer delayed.
Peter Pan save me, me his velly nice friend.
Me no let pirates hurt him." She was far too pretty to cringe in this way, but Peter thought it his due, and he would answer condescendingly, "It is good.
Father knows best," she always said, whatever her private opinion must be.
Her private opinion was that the redskins should not call her a squaw. We have now reached the evening that was to be known among them as the Night of Nights, because of its adventures and their upshot.
To be sure, she did not mind noise, but she simply would not have them grabbing things, and then excusing themselves by saying that Tootles had pushed their elbow.
Certainly not." "He is not really our father," John answered.
He didn't even know how a father does till I showed him." This was grumbling.
We complain of John," cried the twins. Tootles held up his hand.
A cradle is such a nice homely thing to have about a house." While she sewed they played around her; such a group of happy faces and dancing limbs lit up by that romantic fire.
He likes you to meet him at the door." Above, the redskins crouched before Peter. "Watch well, braves.
I have spoken." And then, as so often before, the gay children dragged him from his tree.
Father, we want to dance." "Dance away, my little man," said Peter, who was in high good humour. "But we want you to dance." Peter was really the best dancer among them, but he pretended to be scandalised. "Me!
There is something she wants to be to me, but she says it is not my mother." "No, indeed, it is not," Wendy replied with frightful emphasis.
Now we know why she was prejudiced against the redskins. "Then what is it?" "It isn't for a lady to tell." "Oh, very well," Peter said, a little nettled.
Perhaps Tinker Bell will tell me." "Oh yes, Tinker Bell will tell you," Wendy retorted scornfully.
She is an abandoned little creature." Here Tink, who was in her bedroom, eavesdropping, squeaked out something impudent. "She says she glories in being abandoned," Peter interpreted. He had a sudden idea.
Perhaps Tink wants to be my mother?" "You silly ass!" cried Tinker Bell in a passion. She had said it so often that Wendy needed no translation. "I almost agree with her," Wendy snapped.
But she had been much tried, and she little knew what was to happen before the night was out.
If she had known she would not have snapped. None of them knew.
Perhaps it was best not to know.
Their ignorance gave them one more glad hour; and as it was to be their last hour on the island, let us rejoice that there were sixty glad minutes in it. They sang and danced in their night-gowns.
Such a deliciously creepy song it was, in which they pretended to be frightened at their own shadows, little witting that so soon shadows would close in upon them, from whom they would shrink in real fear.
So uproariously gay was the dance, and how they buffeted each other on the bed and out of it!
It was a pillow fight rather than a dance, and when it was finished, the pillows insisted on one bout more, like partners who know that they may never meet again.
The stories they told, before it was time for Wendy's good-night story!
Even Slightly tried to tell a story that night, but the beginning was so fearfully dull that it appalled not only the others but himself, and he said gloomily: "Yes, it is a dull beginning.
I say, let us pretend that it is the end." And then at last they all got into bed for Wendy's story, the story they loved best, the story Peter hated.
Usually when she began to tell this story he left the room or put his hands over his ears; and possibly if he had done either of those things this time they might all still be on the island.
But to-night he remained on his stool; and we shall see what happened. Chapter XI. WENDY'S STORY "Listen, then," said Wendy, settling down to her story, with Michael at her feet and seven boys in the bed.
There was once a gentleman-" "I had rather he had been a lady," Curly said. "I wish he had been a white rat," said Nibs. "Quiet," their mother admonished them.
There was a lady also, and-" "Oh, mummy," cried the first twin, "you mean that there is a lady also, don't you?
She is not dead, is she?" "Oh, no." "I am awfully glad she isn't dead," said Tootles.
They had three descendants." "What is descendants?" "Well, you are one, Twin." "Did you hear that, John?
I am a descendant." "Descendants are only children," said John. "Oh dear, oh dear," sighed Wendy.
I don't know how it is, but I just thought they did!" "O Wendy," cried Tootles, "was one of the lost children called Tootles?" "Yes, he was." "I am in a story.
Hurrah, I am in a story, Nibs." "Hush.
Do you, Nibs?" "I'm frightfully anxious." "If you knew how great is a mother's love," Wendy told them triumphantly, "you would have no fear.
Can they be John and Michael?
They are!" "Oh!" "'See, dear brothers,' says Wendy pointing upwards, 'there is the window still standing open.
Ah, now we are rewarded for our sublime faith in a mother's love.
So up they flew to their mummy and daddy, and pen cannot describe the happy scene, over which we draw a veil." That was the story, and they were as pleased with it as the fair narrator herself.
Everything just as it should be, you see.
She appealed to Tootles, quite the silliest one. Grandly, however, did Tootles respond.
For that one moment he dropped his silliness and spoke with dignity. "I am just Tootles," he said, "and nobody minds me.
But the first who does not behave to Wendy like an English gentleman I will blood him severely." He drew back his hanger; and for that instant his sun was at noon.
The others held back uneasily.
Then Peter returned, and they saw at once that they would get no support from him.
Wake her, Nibs." Nibs had to knock twice before he got an answer, though Tink had really been sitting up in bed listening for some time. "Who are you?
Then she pretended to be asleep again. "She says she won't!
Who said I wasn't getting up?" she cried. In the meantime the boys were gazing very forlornly at Wendy, now equipped with John and Michael for the journey.
By this time they were dejected, not merely because they were about to lose her, but also because they felt that she was going off to something nice to which they had not been invited.
They took it for granted that if they went he would go also, but really they scarcely cared.
She loved to give them medicine, and undoubtedly gave them too much.
Of course it was only water, but it was out of a bottle, and she always shook the bottle and counted the drops, which gave it a certain medicinal quality.
She had to run about after him, though it was rather undignified. "To find your mother," she coaxed. Now, if Peter had ever quite had a mother, he no longer missed her.
He could do very well without one.
They gazed blankly at him, their sticks over their backs, and on each stick a bundle.
Their first thought was that if Peter was not going he had probably changed his mind about letting them go. But he was far too proud for that.
If you find your mothers," he said darkly, "I hope you will like them." The awful cynicism of this made an uncomfortable impression, and most of them began to look rather doubtful.
She was always so particular about their flannels. "Yes." "And you will take your medicine?" "Yes." That seemed to be everything, and an awkward pause followed.
Peter, however, was not the kind that breaks down before other people.
Above, where all had been so still, the air was rent with shrieks and the clash of steel.
Below, there was dead silence.
Mouths opened and remained open.
Wendy fell on her knees, but her arms were extended toward Peter.
All arms were extended to him, as if suddenly blown in his direction; they were beseeching him mutely not to desert them.
The white men have in the meantime made a rude stockade on the summit of yonder undulating ground, at the foot of which a stream runs, for it is destruction to be too far from water.
There they await the onslaught, the inexperienced ones clutching their revolvers and treading on twigs, but the old hands sleeping tranquilly until just before the dawn.
Through the long black night the savage scouts wriggle, snake-like, among the grass without stirring a blade.
The brushwood closes behind them, as silently as sand into which a mole has dived.
Not a sound is to be heard, save when they give vent to a wonderful imitation of the lonely call of the coyote.
The cry is answered by other braves; and some of them do it even better than the coyotes, who are not very good at it.
Every foot of ground between the spot where Hook had landed his forces and the home under the trees was stealthily examined by braves wearing their mocassins with the heels in front.
They found only one hillock with a stream at its base, so that Hook had no choice; here he must establish himself and wait for just before the dawn.
Fell from their eyes then the film through which they had looked at victory. No more would they torture at the stake.
For them the happy hunting-grounds was now.
They knew it; but as their father's sons they acquitted themselves.
Even then they had time to gather in a phalanx that would have been hard to break had they risen quickly, but this they were forbidden to do by the traditions of their race.
It is written that the noble savage must never express surprise in the presence of the white.
Thus terrible as the sudden appearance of the pirates must have been to them, they remained stationary for a moment, not a muscle moving; as if the foe had come by invitation.
Then, indeed, the tradition gallantly upheld, they seized their weapons, and the air was torn with the war-cry; but it was now too late. It is no part of ours to describe what was a massacre rather than a fight.
Thus perished many of the flower of the Piccaninny tribe.
Not all unavenged did they die, for with Lean Wolf fell Alf Mason, to disturb the Spanish Main no more, and among others who bit the dust were Geo.
Turley, and the Alsatian Foggerty.
Had he waited on the rising ground till the proper hour he and his men would probably have been butchered; and in judging him it is only fair to take this into account.
What he should perhaps have done was to acquaint his opponents that he proposed to follow a new method.
On the other hand, this, as destroying the element of surprise, would have made his strategy of no avail, so that the whole question is beset with difficulties.
It was Pan he wanted, Pan and Wendy and their band, but chiefly Pan. Peter was such a small boy that one tends to wonder at the man's hatred of him.
True he had flung Hook's arm to the crocodile, but even this and the increased insecurity of life to which it led, owing to the crocodile's pertinacity, hardly account for a vindictiveness so relentless and malignant.
The truth is that there was a something about Peter which goaded the pirate captain to frenzy.
It was not his courage, it was not his engaging appearance, it was not-.
There is no beating about the bush, for we know quite well what it was, and have got to tell.
It was Peter's cockiness. This had got on Hook's nerves; it made his iron claw twitch, and at night it disturbed him like an insect.
While Peter lived, the tortured man felt that he was a lion in a cage into which a sparrow had come. The question now was how to get down the trees, or how to get his dogs down?
He ran his greedy eyes over them, searching for the thinnest ones.
They wriggled uncomfortably, for they knew he would not scruple to ram them down with poles. In the meantime, what of the boys?
To his amazement Hook signed him to beat the tom-tom, and slowly there came to Smee an understanding of the dreadful wickedness of the order.
This puzzled the pirates, but all their other feelings were swallowed by a base delight that the enemy were about to come up the trees.
They smirked at each other and rubbed their hands.
The first to emerge from his tree was Curly.
With ironical politeness Hook raised his hat to her, and, offering her his arm, escorted her to the spot where the others were being gagged.
All went well until Slightly's turn came, when he was found to be like those irritating parcels that use up all the string in going round and leave no tags with which to tie a knot.
Hunched up in their ropes they might indeed be rolled down hill like barrels, but most of the way lay through a morass.
Again Hook's genius surmounted difficulties.
He indicated that the little house must be used as a conveyance.
The children were flung into it, four stout pirates raised it on their shoulders, the others fell in behind, and singing the hateful pirate chorus the strange procession set off through the wood.
Then for long he remained brooding; his hat of ill omen on the sward, so that any gentle breeze which had arisen might play refreshingly through his hair.
Dark as were his thoughts his blue eyes were as soft as the periwinkle.
Hook let his cloak slip softly to the ground, and then biting his lips till a lewd blood stood on them, he stepped into the tree.
He was a brave man, but for a moment he had to stop there and wipe his brow, which was dripping like a candle.
Then, silently, he let himself go into the unknown. He arrived unmolested at the foot of the shaft, and stood still again, biting at his breath, which had almost left him.
As his eyes became accustomed to the dim light various objects in the home under the trees took shape; but the only one on which his greedy gaze rested, long sought for and found at last, was the great bed.
For hours he could not be separated from these dreams, though he wailed piteously in them.
They had to do, I think, with the riddle of his existence.
But on this occasion he had fallen at once into a dreamless sleep.
One arm dropped over the edge of the bed, one leg was arched, and the unfinished part of his laugh was stranded on his mouth, which was open, showing the little pearls. Thus defenceless Hook found him.
He stood silent at the foot of the tree looking across the chamber at his enemy.
Did no feeling of compassion disturb his sombre breast?
The man was not wholly evil; he loved flowers (I have been told) and sweet music (he was himself no mean performer on the harpsichord); and, let it be frankly admitted, the idyllic nature of the scene stirred him profoundly.
Mastered by his better self he would have returned reluctantly up the tree, but for one thing. What stayed him was Peter's impertinent appearance as he slept.
The open mouth, the drooping arm, the arched knee: they were such a personification of cockiness as, taken together, will never again, one may hope, be presented to eyes so sensitive to their offensiveness. They steeled Hook's heart.
It did not entirely fill the aperture, and he had been looking over it.
Feeling for the catch, he found to his fury that it was low down, beyond his reach.
To his disordered brain it seemed then that the irritating quality in Peter's face and figure visibly increased, and he rattled the door and flung himself against it.
Was his enemy to escape him after all? But what was that?
The red in his eye had caught sight of Peter's medicine standing on a ledge within easy reach.
These he had boiled down into a yellow liquid quite unknown to science, which was probably the most virulent poison in existence. Five drops of this he now added to Peter's cup.
His hand shook, but it was in exultation rather than in shame.
As he did it he avoided glancing at the sleeper, but not lest pity should unnerve him; merely to avoid spilling.
Then one long gloating look he cast upon his victim, and turning, wormed his way with difficulty up the tree.
The light guttered and went out, leaving the tenement in darkness; but still he slept.
It must have been not less than ten o'clock by the crocodile, when he suddenly sat up in his bed, wakened by he knew not what.
It was a soft cautious tapping on the door of his tree. Soft and cautious, but in that stillness it was sinister.
Peter felt for his dagger till his hand gripped it.
Then he spoke. "Who is that?" For long there was no answer: then again the knock. "Who are you?" No answer. He was thrilled, and he loved being thrilled.
In two strides he reached the door.
Wendy bound, and on the pirate ship; she who loved everything to be just so! "I'll rescue her!" he cried, leaping at his weapons.
As he leapt he thought of something he could do to please her.
He could take his medicine. His hand closed on the fatal draught. "No!" shrieked Tinker Bell, who had heard Hook mutter about his deed as he sped through the forest. "Why not?" "It is poisoned." "Poisoned?
Who could have poisoned it?" "Hook." "Don't be silly.
How could Hook have got down here?" Alas, Tinker Bell could not explain this, for even she did not know the dark secret of Slightly's tree.
Nevertheless Hook's words had left no room for doubt.
The cup was poisoned. "Besides," said Peter, quite believing himself, "I never fell asleep." He raised the cup.
She whispered in his ear "You silly ass," and then, tottering to her chamber, lay down on the bed. His head almost filled the fourth wall of her little room as he knelt near her in distress.
Every moment her light was growing fainter; and he knew that if it went out she would be no more.
She liked his tears so much that she put out her beautiful finger and let them run over it. Her voice was so low that at first he could not make out what she said. Then he made it out.
She was saying that she thought she could get well again if children believed in fairies. Peter flung out his arms.
First her voice grew strong, then she popped out of bed, then she was flashing through the room more merry and impudent than ever.
It was not such a night as he would have chosen.
But in what direction, for he could not be sure that the children had been taken to the ship?
A light fall of snow had obliterated all footmarks; and a deathly silence pervaded the island, as if for a space Nature stood still in horror of the recent carnage.
He had taught the children something of the forest lore that he had himself learned from Tiger Lily and Tinker Bell, and knew that in their dire hour they were not likely to forget it.
Slightly, if he had an opportunity, would blaze the trees, for instance, Curly would drop seeds, and Wendy would leave her handkerchief at some important place.
The morning was needed to search for such guidance, and he could not wait.
There was little sound, and none agreeable save the whir of the ship's sewing machine at which Smee sat, ever industrious and obliging, the essence of the commonplace, pathetic Smee.
It was his hour of triumph.
Peter had been removed for ever from his path, and all the other boys were in the brig, about to walk the plank.
Hook was profoundly dejected. He was often thus when communing with himself on board ship in the quietude of the night.
It was because he was so terribly alone.
This inscrutable man never felt more alone than when surrounded by his dogs. They were socially inferior to him. Hook was not his true name.
Thus it was offensive to him even now to board a ship in the same dress in which he grappled her, and he still adhered in his walk to the school's distinguished slouch.
But above all he retained the passion for good form. Good form!
It was a claw within him sharper than the iron one; and as it tore him, the perspiration dripped down his tallow countenance and streaked his doublet.
Ofttimes he drew his sleeve across his face, but there was no damming that trickle. Ah, envy not Hook. There came to him a presentiment of his early dissolution.
It was as if Peter's terrible oath had boarded the ship.
Hook felt a gloomy desire to make his dying speech, lest presently there should be no time for it. "Better for Hook," he cried, "if he had had less ambition!
For long he muttered to himself, staring at Smee, who was hemming placidly, under the conviction that all children feared him. Feared him!
There was not a child on board the brig that night who did not already love him.
He had said horrid things to them and hit them with the palm of his hand, because he could not hit with his fist, but they had only clung to him the more.
Michael had tried on his spectacles. To tell poor Smee that they thought him lovable!
Hook itched to do it, but it seemed too brutal.
Instead, he revolved this mystery in his mind: why do they find Smee lovable?
He pursued the problem like the sleuth-hound that he was.
If Smee was lovable, what was it that made him so?
Are all the children chained, so that they cannot fly away?" "Ay, ay." "Then hoist them up." The wretched prisoners were dragged from the hold, all except Wendy, and ranged in line in front of him.
For a time he seemed unconscious of their presence.
He lolled at his ease, humming, not unmelodiously, snatches of a rude song, and fingering a pack of cards.
Ever and anon the light from his cigar gave a touch of colour to his face. "Now then, bullies," he said briskly, "six of you walk the plank to-night, but I have room for two cabin boys.
Which of you is it to be?" "Don't irritate him unnecessarily," had been Wendy's instructions in the hold; so Tootles stepped forward politely.
All children know this about mothers, and despise them for it, but make constant use of it. So Tootles explained prudently, "You see, sir, I don't think my mother would like me to be a pirate.
Would your mother like you to be a pirate, Slightly?" He winked at Slightly, who said mournfully, "I don't think so," as if he wished things had been otherwise.
We'll call you that here, bully, if you join." "What do you think, Michael?" asked John. "What would you call me if I join?
Michael demanded. "Blackbeard Joe." Michael was naturally impressed.
What do you think, John?
He wanted John to decide, and John wanted him to decide. "Shall we still be respectful subjects of the King?
Get the plank ready." They were only boys, and they went white as they saw Jukes and Cecco preparing the fatal plank.
But they tried to look brave when Wendy was brought up. No words of mine can tell you how Wendy despised those pirates.
To the boys there was at least some glamour in the pirate calling; but all that she saw was that the ship had not been tidied for years.
There was not a porthole on the grimy glass of which you might not have written with your finger "Dirty pig"; and she had already written it on several.
With a hasty gesture he tried to hide it, but he was too late. "Are they to die?" asked Wendy, with a look of such frightful contempt that he nearly fainted. "They are," he snarled.
Silence all," he called gloatingly, "for a mother's last words to her children." At this moment Wendy was grand.
These are my last words, dear boys," she said firmly.
What are you to do, Nibs?" "What my mother hopes.
What are you to do, Twin?" "What my mother hopes.
John, what are-" But Hook had found his voice again. "Tie her up!" he shouted. It was Smee who tied her to the mast.
See here, honey," he whispered, "I'll save you if you promise to be my mother." But not even for Smee would she make such a promise.
His intention was to turn her face so that she should see the boys walking the plank one by one.
But he never reached her, he never heard the cry of anguish he hoped to wring from her.
He heard something else instead. It was the terrible tick-tick of the crocodile. They all heard it-pirates, boys, Wendy; and immediately every head was blown in one direction; not to the water whence the sound proceeded, but toward Hook.
All knew that what was about to happen concerned him alone, and that from being actors they were suddenly become spectators. Very frightful was it to see the change that came over him.
It was as if he had been clipped at every joint.
They had no thought of fighting it.
It was Fate. Only when Hook was hidden from them did curiosity loosen the limbs of the boys so that they could rush to the ship's side to see the crocodile climbing it.
Then he went on ticking. Chapter XV. "HOOK OR ME THIS TIME" Odd things happen to all of us on our way through life without our noticing for a time that they have happened.
Thus, to take an instance, we suddenly discover that we have been deaf in one ear for we don't know how long, but, say, half an hour.
Now such an experience had come that night to Peter.
When last we saw him he was stealing across the island with one finger to his lips and his dagger at the ready.
He had seen the crocodile pass by without noticing anything peculiar about it, but by and by he remembered that it had not been ticking.
He ticked superbly, but with one unforeseen result.
Thus many animals pass from land to water, but no other human of whom I know.
As he swam he had but one thought: "Hook or me this time.
He had ticked so long that he now went on ticking without knowing that he was doing it.
No sooner did Peter remember it than he heard the ticking.
At first he thought the sound did come from the crocodile, and he looked behind him swiftly.
Then he realised that he was doing it himself, and in a flash he understood the situation.
How clever of me!" he thought at once, and signed to the boys not to burst into applause. It was at this moment that Ed Teynte the quartermaster emerged from the forecastle and came along the deck.
Now, reader, time what happened by your watch.
Peter struck true and deep.
John clapped his hands on the ill-fated pirate's mouth to stifle the dying groan.
He fell forward. Four boys caught him to prevent the thud.
Peter gave the signal, and the carrion was cast overboard.
They could hear each other's distressed breathing now, which showed them that the more terrible sound had passed. "It's gone, captain," Smee said, wiping off his spectacles.
All's still again." Slowly Hook let his head emerge from his ruff, and listened so intently that he could have caught the echo of the tick.
There was not a sound, and he drew himself up firmly to his full height. "Then here's to Johnny Plank!" he cried brazenly, hating the boys more than ever because they had seen him unbend.
No, no!" they cried so piteously that every pirate smiled. "Fetch the cat, Jukes," said Hook; "it's in the cabin." The cabin!
Peter was in the cabin!
The children gazed at each other. "Ay, ay," said Jukes blithely, and he strode into the cabin.
It wailed through the ship, and died away.
There was no more singing, all listened now; and again came a death-screech and again a crow. No one spoke except Slightly.
Three," he said. Hook rallied his dogs with a gesture.
Starkey cried. "My hook thinks you did," said Hook, crossing to him.
Starkey whimpered, all of a tremble now. "Shake hands, Starkey," said Hook, proffering his claw. Starkey looked round for help, but all deserted him.
As he backed up Hook advanced, and now the red spark was in his eye.
How Slightly longed to say it.
All pirates are superstitious, and Cookson cried, "They do say the surest sign a ship's accurst is when there's one on board more than can be accounted for." "I've heard," muttered Mullins, "he always boards the pirate craft last.
At this the children could not resist raising a cheer.
Hook had well-nigh forgotten his prisoners, but as he swung round on them now his face lit up again. "Lads," he cried to his crew, "now here's a notion.
Open the cabin door and drive them in. Let them fight the doodle-doo for their lives.
If they kill him, we're so much the better; if he kills them, we're none the worse." For the last time his dogs admired Hook, and devotedly they did his bidding.
The boys, pretending to struggle, were pushed into the cabin and the door was closed on them. "Now, listen!" cried Hook, and all listened.
But not one dared to face the door.
Yes, one, Wendy, who all this time had been bound to the mast.
It was for neither a scream nor a crow that she was watching, it was for the reappearance of Peter. She had not long to wait.
In the cabin he had found the thing for which he had gone in search: the key that would free the children of their manacles, and now they all stole forth, armed with such weapons as they could find.
First signing them to hide, Peter cut Wendy's bonds, and then nothing could have been easier than for them all to fly off together; but one thing barred the way, an oath, "Hook or me this time.
So when he had freed Wendy, he whispered for her to conceal herself with the others, and himself took her place by the mast, her cloak around him so that he should pass for her.
Then he took a great breath and crowed. To the pirates it was a voice crying that all the boys lay slain in the cabin; and they were panic-stricken.
There's a Jonah aboard." "Ay," they snarled, "a man wi' a hook." "No, lads, no, it's the girl.
Never was luck on a pirate ship wi' a woman on board.
We'll right the ship when she's gone." Some of them remembered that this had been a saying of Flint's.
Then they all knew who 'twas that had been undoing them in the cabin, and twice Hook essayed to speak and twice he failed.
In that frightful moment I think his fierce heart broke. At last he cried, "Cleave him to the brisket!" but without conviction. "Down, boys, and at them!
Peter's voice rang out; and in another moment the clash of arms was resounding through the ship.
Had the pirates kept together it is certain that they would have won; but the onset came when they were still unstrung, and they ran hither and thither, striking wildly, each thinking himself the last survivor of the crew.
Man to man they were the stronger; but they fought on the defensive only, which enabled the boys to hunt in pairs and choose their quarry.
They had done for his dogs, but this man alone seemed to be a match for them all.
Again and again they closed upon him, and again and again he hewed a clear space.
Then he sought to close and give the quietus with his iron hook, which all this time had been pawing the air; but Peter doubled under it and, lunging fiercely, pierced him in the ribs.
And again and again he darted in and pricked. Hook was fighting now without hope.
Misguided man though he was, we may be glad, without sympathising with him, that in the end he was true to the traditions of his race.
As he stood on the bulwark looking over his shoulder at Peter gliding through the air, he invited him with a gesture to use his foot.
Hook had feared. Wendy, of course, had stood by taking no part in the fight, though watching Peter with glistening eyes; but now that all was over she became prominent again.
She praised them equally, and shuddered delightfully when Michael showed her the place where he had killed one; and then she took them into Hook's cabin and pointed to his watch which was hanging on a nail.
It said "half-past one!" The lateness of the hour was almost the biggest thing of all.
She got them to bed in the pirates' bunks pretty quickly, you may be sure; all but Peter, who strutted up and down on the deck, until at last he fell asleep by the side of Long Tom.
They all donned pirate clothes cut off at the knee, shaved smartly, and tumbled up, with the true nautical roll and hitching their trousers. It need not be said who was the captain.
Nibs and John were first and second mate.
There was a woman aboard.
The rest were tars before the mast, and lived in the fo'c'sle.
The bluff strident words struck the note sailors understood, and they cheered him lustily.
Instant obedience was the only safe thing.
Slightly got a dozen for looking perplexed when told to take soundings.
It seems a shame to have neglected No. 14 all this time; and yet we may be sure that Mrs. Darling does not blame us.
If we had returned sooner to look with sorrowful sympathy at her, she would probably have cried, "Don't be silly; what do I matter?
Do go back and keep an eye on the children.
We are no more than servants. Why on earth should their beds be properly aired, seeing that they left them in such a thankless hurry?
Would it not serve them jolly well right if they came back and found that their parents were spending the week-end in the country?
This would spoil so completely the surprise to which Wendy and John and Michael are looking forward.
They have been planning it out on the ship: mother's rapture, father's shout of joy, Nana's leap through the air to embrace them first, when what they ought to be prepared for is a good hiding.
However, we should get no thanks even for this.
By depriving the children of ten minutes of delight." "Oh, if you look at it in that way!" "What other way is there in which to look at it?" You see, the woman had no proper spirit.
I had meant to say extraordinarily nice things about her; but I despise her, and not one of them will I say now.
She does not really need to be told to have things ready, for they are ready.
All the beds are aired, and she never leaves the house, and observe, the window is open.
For all the use we are to her, we might well go back to the ship.
However, as we are here we may as well stay and look on.
That is all we are, lookers-on.
So let us watch and say jaggy things, in the hope that some of them will hurt. The only change to be seen in the night-nursery is that between nine and six the kennel is no longer there.
When the children flew away, Mr. Darling felt in his bones that all the blame was his for having chained Nana up, and that from first to last she had been wiser than he.
Of course this was a pity; but whatever Mr. Darling did he had to do in excess, otherwise he soon gave up doing it.
Something of the strength of character of the man will be seen if we remember how sensitive he was to the opinion of neighbours: this man whose every movement now attracted surprised attention.
Soon the inward meaning of it leaked out, and the great heart of the public was touched.
If she was too fond of her rubbishy children, she couldn't help it.
Look at her in her chair, where she has fallen asleep.
The corner of her mouth, where one looks first, is almost withered up.
Her hand moves restlessly on her breast as if she had a pain there.
Some like Peter best, and some like Wendy best, but I like her best.
Suppose, to make her happy, we whisper to her in her sleep that the brats are coming back.
They are really within two miles of the window now, and flying strong, but all we need whisper is that they are on the way.
Good heavens, if I had been a weak man!" "And, George," she said timidly, "you are as full of remorse as ever, aren't you?" "Full of remorse as ever, dearest!
See my punishment: living in a kennel." "But it is punishment, isn't it, George?
I feel a draught." "O George, never ask me to do that.
This trick had been in his head all the time. Instead of feeling that he was behaving badly he danced with glee; then he peeped into the day-nursery to see who was playing.
He whispered to Tink, "It's Wendy's mother!
She is a pretty lady, but not so pretty as my mother.
He was angry with her now for not seeing why she could not have Wendy. The reason was so simple: "I'm fond of her too.
We can't both have her, lady." But the lady would not make the best of it, and he was unhappy.
He ceased to look at her, but even then she would not let go of him.
He skipped about and made funny faces, but when he stopped it was just as if she were inside him, knocking. "Oh, all right," he said at last, and gulped.
Then he unbarred the window.
They alighted on the floor, quite unashamed of themselves, and the youngest one had already forgotten his home. "John," he said, looking around him doubtfully, "I think I have been here before." "Of course you have, you silly.
There is your old bed." "So it is," Michael said, but not with much conviction. "I say," cried John, "the kennel!" and he dashed across to look into it. "Perhaps Nana is inside it," Wendy said. But John whistled.
The children waited for her cry of joy, but it did not come.
She saw them, but she did not believe they were there.
Wendy cried. "That's Wendy," she said, but still she was sure it was the dream. "Mother!" "That's John," she said. "Mother!" cried Michael.
He knew her now. "That's Michael," she said, and she stretched out her arms for the three little selfish children they would never envelop again.
They were waiting below to give Wendy time to explain about them; and when they had counted five hundred they went up.
They went up by the stair, because they thought this would make a better impression.
They stood in a row in front of Mrs. Darling, with their hats off, and wishing they were not wearing their pirate clothes.
They said nothing, but their eyes asked her to have them.
Because, if so, we can go away." "Father!
Wendy cried, shocked; but still the cloud was on him.
He knew he was behaving unworthily, but he could not help it. "We could lie doubled up," said Nibs. "I always cut their hair myself," said Wendy. "George!
Mrs. Darling exclaimed, pained to see her dear one showing himself in such an unfavourable light. Then he burst into tears, and the truth came out.
Do you think he is a cypher, Curly?" "No, I don't.
Do you think he is a cypher, Slightly?" "Rather not.
He did not exactly come to the window, but he brushed against it in passing so that she could open it if she liked and call to him.
I don't want to be a man.
Tink called out from somewhere round the corner. "It doesn't matter," Peter said. "O Peter, you know it matters." "Well, then, come with me to the little house." "May I, mummy?" "Certainly not.
Wendy would have preferred a more permanent arrangement; and it seemed to her that spring would be long in coming; but this promise sent Peter away quite gay again.
He had no sense of time, and was so full of adventures that all I have told you about him is only a halfpenny-worth of them.
I suppose it was because Wendy knew this that her last words to him were these rather plaintive ones: "You won't forget me, Peter, will you, before spring cleaning time comes?" Of course Peter promised; and then he flew away.
He took Mrs. Darling's kiss with him.
The kiss that had been for no one else, Peter took quite easily.
But she seemed satisfied. Of course all the boys went to school; and most of them got into Class III, but Slightly was put first into Class IV and then into Class V. Class I is the top class.
It is sad to have to say that the power to fly gradually left them.
In time they could not even fly after their hats.
But he was exactly as fascinating as ever, and they had a lovely spring cleaning in the little house on the tree tops. Next year he did not come for her.
For a little longer she tried for his sake not to have growing pains; and she felt she was untrue to him when she got a prize for general knowledge.
You need not be sorry for her.
She was one of the kind that likes to grow up.
In the end she grew up of her own free will a day quicker than other girls. All the boys were grown up and done for by this time; so it is scarcely worth while saying anything more about them.
You may see the twins and Nibs and Curly any day going to an office, each carrying a little bag and an umbrella.
Slightly married a lady of title, and so he became a lord.
You see that judge in a wig coming out at the iron door?
That used to be Tootles.
The bearded man who doesn't know any story to tell his children was once John. Wendy was married in white with a pink sash.
It is strange to think that Peter did not alight in the church and forbid the banns. Years rolled on again, and Wendy had a daughter.
It was Jane's nursery now, for her father had bought it at the three per cents from Wendy's father, who was no longer fond of stairs.
Mrs. Darling was now dead and forgotten. There were only two beds in the nursery now, Jane's and her nurse's; and there was no kennel, for Nana also had passed away.
That was the time for stories.
Ah me, how time flies!" "Does it fly," asks the artful child, "the way you flew when you were a little girl?" "The way I flew?
Do you know, Jane, I sometimes wonder whether I ever did really fly." "Yes, you did." "The dear old days when I could fly!" "Why can't you fly now, mother?" "Because I am grown up, dearest.
When people grow up they forget the way." "Why do they forget the way?" "Because they are no longer gay and innocent and heartless.
It is only the gay and innocent and heartless who can fly." "What is gay and innocent and heartless?
I do wish I were gay and innocent and heartless." Or perhaps Wendy admits she does see something. "I do believe," she says, "that it is this nursery." "I do believe it is," says Jane.
She was as grown up as that. "What did his crow sound like?
It was the spring of the year, and the story had been told for the night, and Jane was now asleep in her bed.
Wendy was sitting on the floor, very close to the fire, so as to see to darn, for there was no other light in the nursery; and while she sat darning she heard a crow.
She was not a little girl heart-broken about him; she was a grown woman smiling at it all, but they were wet-eyed smiles. Then she turned up the light, and Peter saw.
He gave a cry of pain; and when the tall beautiful creature stooped to lift him in her arms he drew back sharply. "What is it?" he cried again. She had to tell him. "I am old, Peter.
I am ever so much more than twenty.
I grew up long ago." "You promised not to!" "I couldn't help it.
Of course he did not strike.
He sat down on the floor instead and sobbed; and Wendy did not know how to comfort him, though she could have done it so easily once.
She was only a woman now, and she ran out of the room to try to think. Peter continued to cry, and soon his sobs woke Jane.
When Margaret grows up she will have a daughter, who is to be Peter's mother in turn; and thus it will go on, so long as children are gay and innocent and heartless. THE END
And we also know that they have been translated by the gift and power of God, for his voice hath declared it unto us; wherefore we know of a surety that the work is true.
And we also testify that we have seen the engravings which are upon the plates; and they have been shown unto us by the power of God, and not of man.
And it is marvelous in our eyes.
Nevertheless, the voice of the Lord commanded us that we should bear record of it; wherefore, to be obedient unto the commandments of God, we bear testimony of these things.
And we know that if we are faithful in Christ, we shall rid our garments of the blood of all men, and be found spotless before the judgment-seat of Christ, and shall dwell with him eternally in the heavens.
And the honor be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost, which is one God.
And we give our names unto the world, to witness unto the world that which we have seen.
And we lie not, God bearing witness of it. CHRISTIAN WHITMER JACOB WHITMER PETER WHITMER, JUN. JOHN WHITMER HIRAM PAGE JOSEPH SMITH, SEN. HYRUM SMITH SAMUEL H.
The Lord warns Lehi to depart out of the land of Jerusalem, because he prophesieth unto the people concerning their iniquity and they seek to destroy his life.
He taketh three days' journey into the wilderness with his family.
Nephi taketh his brethren and returneth to the land of Jerusalem after the record of the Jews.
The account of their sufferings.
They take the daughters of Ishmael to wife.
They take their families and depart into the wilderness.
Their sufferings and afflictions in the wilderness.
The course of their travels.
They come to the large waters.
Nephi's brethren rebel against him.
He confoundeth them, and buildeth a ship.
They call the name of the place Bountiful. They cross the large waters into the promised land, and so forth.
And they did murmur because they knew not the dealings of that God who had created them.
2:13 Neither did they believe that Jerusalem, that great city, could be destroyed according to the words of the prophets.
Wherefore, he said unto him: Behold thou art a robber, and I will slay thee. 3:14 But Laman fled out of his presence, and told the things which Laban had done, unto us.
Know ye not that the Lord hath chosen him to be a ruler over you, and this because of your iniquities?
And I shrunk and would that I might not slay him. 4:11 And the Spirit said unto me again: Behold the Lord hath delivered him into thy hands.
And as I went forth towards the treasury of Laban, behold, I saw the servant of Laban who had the keys of the treasury.
Therefore, if thou wilt go down into the wilderness to my father thou shalt have place with us. 4:35 And it came to pass that Zoram did take courage at the words which I spake.
Now Zoram was the name of the servant; and he promised that he would go down into the wilderness unto our father.
And it came to pass that they did so.
And after they had done praying unto the Lord we did again travel on our journey towards the tent of our father. 7:22 And it came to pass that we did come down unto the tent of our father.
And it came to pass that they were carried away in the Spirit from before my face, and I saw them not. 11:30 And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me again, saying: Look!
And I looked, and I beheld the heavens open again, and I saw angels descending upon the children of men; and they did minister unto them. 11:31 And he spake unto me again, saying: Look!
And I looked, and I beheld the Lamb of God going forth among the children of men.
And I beheld multitudes of people who were sick, and who were afflicted with all manner of diseases, and with devils and unclean spirits; and the angel spake and showed all these things unto me.
And they were healed by the power of the Lamb of God; and the devils and the unclean spirits were cast out. 11:32 And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me again, saying: Look!
And, behold, they are righteous forever; for because of their faith in the Lamb of God their garments are made white in his blood. 12:11 And the angel said unto me: Look!
And I looked, and beheld three generations pass away in righteousness; and their garments were white even like unto the Lamb of God.
Yea, at that day, will they not receive the strength and nourishment from the true vine?
And thus I spake unto my brethren.
Behold, I say unto you, Nay. 17:34 Do ye suppose that our fathers would have been more choice than they if they had been righteous?
I say unto you, Nay. 17:35 Behold, the Lord esteemeth all flesh in one; he that is righteous is favored of God.
O, then, why is it, that ye can be so hard in your hearts? 17:47 Behold, my soul is rent with anguish because of you, and my heart is pained; I fear lest ye shall be cast off forever.
I call unto them and they stand up together. 20:14 All ye, assemble yourselves, and hear; who among them hath declared these things unto them?
And who hath brought up these?
Wherefore, if ye shall be obedient to the commandments, and endure to the end, ye shall be saved at the last day.
Amen. THE SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI An account of the death of Lehi.
Nephi's brethren rebel against him. The Lord warns Nephi to depart into the wilderness.
And the way is prepared from the fall of man, and salvation is free. 2:5 And men are instructed sufficiently that they know good from evil. And the law is given unto men.
And by the law no flesh is justified; or, by the law men are cut off.
If ye shall say there is no sin, ye shall also say there is no righteousness.
And if there be no righteousness there be no happiness. And if there be no righteousness nor happiness there be no punishment nor misery.
And if these things are not there is no God.
And I have none other object save it be the everlasting welfare of your souls.
Amen. 2 Nephi Chapter 3 3:1 And now I speak unto you, Joseph, my last-born.
And great were the covenants of the Lord which he made unto Joseph. 3:5 Wherefore, Joseph truly saw our day.
Behold, I am sure of the fulfilling of this promise; 3:15 And his name shall be called after me; and it shall be after the name of his father.
Behold, thou art little; wherefore hearken unto the words of thy brother, Nephi, and it shall be done unto thee even according to the words which I have spoken. Remember the words of thy dying father.
Amen. 2 Nephi Chapter 4 4:1 And now, I, Nephi, speak concerning the prophecies of which my father hath spoken, concerning Joseph, who was carried into Egypt. 4:2 For behold, he truly prophesied concerning all his seed.
And the prophecies which he wrote, there are not many greater.
Yea, why should I give way to temptations, that the evil one have place in my heart to destroy my peace and afflict my soul?
Why am I angry because of mine enemy? 4:28 Awake, my soul!
No longer droop in sin.
Rejoice, O my heart, and give place no more for the enemy of my soul. 4:29 Do not anger again because of mine enemies.
Wilt thou deliver me out of the hands of mine enemies?
Wilt thou make me that I may shake at the appearance of sin? 4:32 May the gates of hell be shut continually before me, because that my heart is broken and my spirit is contrite!
O Lord, wilt thou make a way for mine escape before mine enemies!
Wilt thou make my path straight before me!
Yea, cursed is he that putteth his trust in man or maketh flesh his arm. 4:35 Yea, I know that God will give liberally to him that asketh.
Yea, my God will give me, if I ask not amiss; therefore I will lift up my voice unto thee; yea, I will cry unto thee, my God, the rock of my righteousness.
Behold, my voice shall forever ascend up unto thee, my rock and mine everlasting God.
And behold, they were cut off from his presence. 5:21 And he had caused the cursing to come upon them, yea, even a sore cursing, because of their iniquity.
Yea, mine anxiety is great for you; and ye yourselves know that it ever has been.
And they are the words which my brother has desired that I should speak unto you.
For behold, the Lord has shown me that those who were at Jerusalem, from whence we came, have been slain and carried away captive. 6:9 Nevertheless, the Lord has shown unto me that they should return again.
For thus saith the Lord: Where is the bill of your mother's divorcement?
To whom have I put thee away, or to which of my creditors have I sold you?
Yea, to whom have I sold you?
Behold, for your iniquities have ye sold yourselves, and for your transgressions is your mother put away. 7:2 Wherefore, when I came, there was no man; when I called, yea, there was none to answer.
O house of Israel, is my hand shortened at all that it cannot redeem, or have I no power to deliver?
When ye are weary he waketh morning by morning.
Who will contend with me?
Let him come near me, and I will smite him with the strength of my mouth. 7:9 For the Lord God will help me.
This shall ye have of mine hand-ye shall lie down in sorrow. 2 Nephi Chapter 8 8:1 Hearken unto me, ye that follow after righteousness.
But my righteousness shall be forever, and my salvation from generation to generation. 8:9 Awake, awake!
Put on strength, O arm of the Lord; awake as in the ancient days.
And if so, this flesh must have laid down to rot and to crumble to its mother earth, to rise no more. 9:8 O the wisdom of God, his mercy and grace!
O the vainness, and the frailties, and the foolishness of men!
When they are learned they think they are wise, and they hearken not unto the counsel of God, for they set it aside, supposing they know of themselves, wherefore, their wisdom is foolishness and it profiteth them not.
Remember, to be carnally-minded is death, and to be spiritually-minded is life eternal. 9:40 O, my beloved brethren, give ear to my words.
Remember the greatness of the Holy One of Israel.
Do not say that I have spoken hard things against you; for if ye do, ye will revile against the truth; for I have spoken the words of your Maker.
Would I harrow up your souls if your minds were pure?
Wherefore, by the words of three, God hath said, I will establish my word.
Is not Hamath as Arpad?
Wherefore, he commandeth none that they shall not partake of his salvation. 26:25 Behold, doth he cry unto any, saying: Depart from me?
Behold, I say unto you, Nay. 26:27 Hath he commanded any that they should not partake of his salvation?
And their works are in the dark; and they say: Who seeth us, and who knoweth us?
And they also say: Surely, your turning of things upside down shall be esteemed as the potter's clay.
But behold, I will show unto them, saith the Lord of Hosts, that I know all their works. For shall the work say of him that made it, he made me not?
We have got a Bible, and there cannot be any more Bible. 29:4 But thus saith the Lord God: O fools, they shall have a Bible; and it shall proceed forth from the Jews, mine ancient covenant people.
And what thank they the Jews for the Bible which they receive from them? Yea, what do the Gentiles mean?
Do they remember the travails, and the labors, and the pains of the Jews, and their diligence unto me, in bringing forth salvation unto the Gentiles? 29:5 O ye Gentiles, have ye remembered the Jews, mine ancient covenant people?
Nay; but ye have cursed them, and have hated them, and have not sought to recover them.
But behold, I will return all these things upon your own heads; for I the Lord have not forgotten my people. 29:6 Thou fool, that shall say: A Bible, we have got a Bible, and we need no more Bible.
Have ye obtained a Bible save it were by the Jews? 29:7 Know ye not that there are more nations than one?
And now, my beloved brethren, I make an end of my sayings. 2 Nephi Chapter 31 31:1 And now I, Nephi, make an end of my prophesying unto you, my beloved brethren.
And now, behold, this is the doctrine of Christ, and the only and true doctrine of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, which is one God, without end.
Amen. 2 Nephi Chapter 32 32:1 And now, behold, my beloved brethren, I suppose that ye ponder somewhat in your hearts concerning that which ye should do after ye have entered in by the way.
But, behold, why do ye ponder these things in your hearts? 32:2 Do ye not remember that I said unto you that after ye had received the Holy Ghost ye could speak with the tongue of angels?
And now, how could ye speak with the tongue of angels save it were by the Holy Ghost? 32:3 Angels speak by the power of the Holy Ghost; wherefore, they speak the words of Christ.
He confoundeth a man who seeketh to overthrow the doctrine of Christ.
Behold, I say unto you, Nay.
And the one being is as precious in his sight as the other.
Ye have broken the hearts of your tender wives, and lost the confidence of your children, because of your bad examples before them; and the sobbings of their hearts ascend up to God against you.
How unsearchable are the depths of the mysteries of him; and it is impossible that man should find out all his ways.
Now, if we had not grafted in these branches, the tree thereof would have perished.
And because the branches have overcome the roots thereof, behold they grew faster than the strength of the roots, taking strength unto themselves.
And now behold, I, Sherem, declare unto you that this is blasphemy; for no man knoweth of such things; for he cannot tell of things to come.
And he said: If there should be a Christ, I would not deny him; but I know that there is no Christ, neither has been, nor ever will be. 7:10 And I said unto him: Believest thou the scriptures?
And he said, Yea. 7:11 And I said unto him: Then ye do not understand them; for they truly testify of Christ.
Yet thou wilt deny it, because thou art of the devil.
Nevertheless, not my will be done; but if God shall smite thee, let that be a sign unto thee that he has power, both in heaven and in earth; and also, that Christ shall come.
And thy will, O Lord, be done, and not mine. 7:15 And it came to pass that when I, Jacob, had spoken these words, the power of the Lord came upon him, insomuch that he fell to the earth.
And I told him the things which my brother Nephi had commanded me, and he promised obedience unto the commands.
And I make an end of my writing upon these plates, which writing has been small; and to the reader I bid farewell, hoping that many of my brethren may read my words.
I say there was nothing short of these things, and exceedingly great plainness of speech, would keep them from going down speedily to destruction.
For what could I write more than my fathers have written?
For have not they revealed the plan of salvation?
They observed to keep the law of Moses and the sabbath day holy unto the Lord.
And they profaned not; neither did they blaspheme.
And the laws of the land were exceedingly strict. 1:6 And they were scattered upon much of the face of the land, and the Lamanites also.
And they were exceedingly more numerous than were they of the Nephites; and they loved murder and would drink the blood of beasts. 1:7 And it came to pass that they came many times against us, the Nephites, to battle.
Yea, and in fine, two hundred and eighty and two years had passed away, and I had kept these plates according to the commandments of my fathers; and I conferred them upon my son Amaron.
And after this manner we keep the records, for it is according to the commandments of our fathers.
And I make an end. 1:10 Behold, I, Abinadom, am the son of Chemish.
And I make an end. 1:12 Behold, I am Amaleki, the son of Abinadom.
And they departed out of the land into the wilderness, as many as would hearken unto the voice of the Lord; and they were led by many preachings and prophesyings.
And Coriantumr was discovered by the people of Zarahemla; and he dwelt with them for the space of nine moons. 1:22 It also spake a few words concerning his fathers.
And I am about to lie down in my grave; and these plates are full.
And I, Mormon, pray to God that they may be preserved from this time henceforth.
And ye are still indebted unto him, and are, and will be, forever and ever; therefore, of what have ye to boast? 2:25 And now I ask, can ye say aught of yourselves?
For behold, they are blessed in all things, both temporal and spiritual; and if they hold out faithful to the end they are received into heaven, that thereby they may dwell with God in a state of never-ending happiness.
Thus hath the Lord commanded me.
And has he suffered that ye have begged in vain?
And he also, himself, did till the earth, that thereby he might not become burdensome to his people, that he might do according to that which his father had done in all things.
And now, I will rejoice; and on the morrow I will cause that my people shall rejoice also. 7:15 For behold, we are in bondage to the Lamanites, and are taxed with a tax which is grievous to be borne.
And is not this, our affliction, great?
Therefore I said unto thee: Canst thou translate? 8:12 And I say unto thee again: Knowest thou of any one that can translate?
And the things are called interpreters, and no man can look in them except he be commanded, lest he should look for that he ought not and he should perish.
And may the Lord bless my people.
And he had many wives and concubines.
And he did cause his people to commit sin, and do that which was abominable in the sight of the Lord.
For if ye understand these things ye have not taught them; therefore, ye have perverted the ways of the Lord. 12:27 Ye have not applied your hearts to understanding; therefore, ye have not been wise.
Therefore, what teach ye this people? 12:28 And they said: We teach the law of Moses. 12:29 And again he said unto them: If ye teach the law of Moses why do ye not keep it?
Why do ye set your hearts upon riches?
And what know ye concerning the law of Moses?
Doth salvation come by the law of Moses?
I say unto you, Nay, ye have not.
And have ye taught this people that they should do all these things?
Behold, I say unto you, that when his soul has been made an offering for sin he shall see his seed.
And now what say ye?
And now, are they not his seed? 15:13 Yea, and are not the prophets, every one that has opened his mouth to prophesy, that has not fallen into transgression, I mean all the holy prophets ever since the world began?
And Limhi said unto him: What cause have ye to come up to war against my people?
And are they not in the wilderness?
And Ammon declined doing this thing, considering himself an unworthy servant. 21:34 Therefore they did not at that time form themselves into a church, waiting upon the Spirit of the Lord.
And Gideon said unto him: 22:6 Behold the back pass, through the back wall, on the back side of the city.
And it came to pass that whosoever were desirous to take upon them the name of Christ, or of God, they did join the churches of God; 25:24 And they were called the people of God.
And Alma laid the case before their king, Mosiah.
For behold, doth not my voice shake the earth?
I was in the darkest abyss; but now I behold the marvelous light of God.
An account of the reign of the judges, and the wars and contentions among the people.
Yea, and have you sufficiently retained in remembrance his mercy and long-suffering towards them?
And moreover, have ye sufficiently retained in remembrance that he has delivered their souls from hell? 5:7 Behold, he changed their hearts; yea, he awakened them out of a deep sleep, and they awoke unto God.
Behold, I say unto you, Nay, they were not. 5:9 And again I ask, were the bands of death broken, and the chains of hell which encircled them about, were they loosed?
I say unto you, Yea, they were loosed, and their souls did expand, and they did sing redeeming love.
And I say unto you that they are saved. 5:10 And now I ask of you on what conditions are they saved?
Yea, what grounds had they to hope for salvation?
And was he not a holy prophet?
Did he not speak the words of God, and my father Alma believe them? 5:12 And according to his faith there was a mighty change wrought in his heart.
And behold, they were faithful until the end; therefore they were saved. 5:14 And now behold, I ask of you, my brethren of the church, have ye spiritually been born of God?
Have ye received his image in your countenances?
Have ye experienced this mighty change in your hearts? 5:15 Do ye exercise faith in the redemption of him who created you?
Could ye say, if ye were called to die at this time, within yourselves, that ye have been sufficiently humble?
That your garments have been cleansed and made white through the blood of Christ, who will come to redeem his people from their sins? 5:28 Behold, are ye stripped of pride?
I say unto you, if ye are not ye are not prepared to meet God.
Behold, I say unto you, that the devil is your shepherd, and ye are of his fold; and now, who can deny this?
Do ye not suppose that I know of these things myself?
Behold, I testify unto you that I do know that these things whereof I have spoken are true.
And how do ye suppose that I know of their surety? 5:46 Behold, I say unto you they are made known unto me by the Holy Spirit of God.
Behold, I have fasted and prayed many days that I might know these things of myself.
And now, my brethren, what have ye to say against this?
And behold, if a wolf enter his flock doth he not drive him out?
And thus it is written.
Behold, I say unto you, yea, I know that ye believe them; and the way that I know that ye believe them is by the manifestation of the Spirit which is in me.
And thus I have spoken.
Behold, I am he that delivered it unto you. 8:16 And behold, I am sent to command thee that thou return to the city of Ammonihah, and preach again unto the people of the city; yea, preach unto them.
Knowest thou that the righteous yieldeth to no such temptations? 11:24 Believest thou that there is no God?
I say unto you, Nay, thou knowest that there is a God, but thou lovest that lucre more than him. 11:25 And now thou hast lied before God unto me.
And he began to plead for them from that time forth; but they reviled him, saying: Art thou also possessed with the devil?
Know ye not that I have power to deliver you up unto the flames?
And he commanded them to speak; but they answered nothing. 14:20 And it came to pass that they departed and went their ways, but came again on the morrow; and the judge also smote them again on their cheeks.
And many came forth also, and smote them, saying: Will ye stand again and judge this people, and condemn our law?
O Lord, give us strength according to our faith which is in Christ, even unto deliverance.
And Alma returned and said unto them: Behold, the Lamanites will cross the river Sidon in the south wilderness, away up beyond the borders of the land of Manti.
And now so great was the scent thereof that the people did not go in to possess the land of Ammonihah for many years.
And they began to weep exceedingly, saying: Behold, our flocks are scattered already. 17:29 Now they wept because of the fear of being slain.
But the king answered him not. 18:16 And it came to pass that Ammon, being filled with the Spirit of God, therefore he perceived the thoughts of the king.
And this is the thing that I desire of thee. 18:23 And the king answered him, and said: Yea, I will believe all thy words.
Hast thou seen an angel?
Why do not angels appear unto us?
Behold are not this people as good as thy people? 21:6 Thou also sayest, except we repent we shall perish.
How knowest thou the thought and intent of our hearts?
How knowest thou that we have cause to repent?
How knowest thou that we are not a righteous people?
Behold, we have built sanctuaries, and we do assemble ourselves together to worship God.
We do not believe in these foolish traditions.
And they contended with many about the word. 21:12 And it came to pass that they saw that the people would harden their hearts, therefore they departed and came over into the land of Middoni.
And now when the king had said these words, he was struck as if he were dead. 22:19 And it came to pass that his servants ran and told the queen all that had happened unto the king.
Therefore we shall fall before them. 22:21 Now when the queen saw the fear of the servants she also began to fear exceedingly, lest there should some evil come upon her.
And when they saw it they greatly marveled, and began to fear.
And the king stood forth, and began to minister unto them.
Can ye tell? 26:3 Behold, I answer for you; for our brethren, the Lamanites, were in darkness, yea, even in the darkest abyss, but behold, how many of them are brought to behold the marvelous light of God!
Yea, who can say too much of his great power, and of his mercy, and of his long-suffering towards the children of men?
Behold, I say unto you, Nay, there has not, even among the Nephites. 26:34 For behold, they would take up arms against their brethren; they would not suffer themselves to be slain.
But behold how many of these have laid down their lives; and we know that they have gone to their God, because of their love and of their hatred to sin. 26:35 Now have we not reason to rejoice?
And Alma also related unto them his conversion, with Ammon and Aaron, and his brethren. 27:26 And it came to pass that it did cause great joy among them.
And may God grant that it may be done according to my words, even as I have spoken.
And after this manner did he preach, saying: 30:13 O ye that are bound down under a foolish and a vain hope, why do ye yoke yourselves with such foolish things?
Why do ye look for a Christ?
Behold, ye cannot know of things which ye do not see; therefore ye cannot know that there shall be a Christ. 30:16 Ye look forward and say that ye see a remission of your sins.
Why do ye teach this people that there shall be no Christ, to interrupt their rejoicings?
Why do ye speak against all the prophecies of the holy prophets? 30:23 Now the high priest's name was Giddonah.
Behold, I say they are in bondage.
Ye say that those ancient prophecies are true.
Behold, I say that ye do not know that they are true. 30:25 Ye say that this people is a guilty and a fallen people, because of the transgression of a parent.
Behold, I say that a child is not guilty because of its parents. 30:26 And ye also say that Christ shall come.
But behold, I say that ye do not know that there shall be a Christ.
For behold, I say unto you, I know there is a God, and also that Christ shall come. 30:40 And now what evidence have ye that there is no God, or that Christ cometh not?
Will ye say, Show unto me a sign, when ye have the testimony of all these thy brethren, and also all the holy prophets?
And yet will ye deny against all these witnesses?
In whom did ye desire that Alma should show forth his sign?
Would ye that he should afflict others, to show unto thee a sign?
And he said unto me: There is no God; yea, and he taught me that which I should say.
O Lord, wilt thou give me strength, that I may bear with mine infirmities.
For I am infirm, and such wickedness among this people doth pain my soul. 31:31 O Lord, my heart is exceedingly sorrowful; wilt thou comfort my soul in Christ.
And now behold, will not this strengthen your faith?
Yea, it will strengthen your faith: for ye will say I know that this is a good seed; for behold it sprouteth and beginneth to grow. 32:31 And now, behold, are ye sure that this is a good seed?
And many did look and live. 33:20 But few understood the meaning of those things, and this because of the hardness of their hearts.
But there were many who were so hardened that they would not look, therefore they perished.
And behold, it will become a tree, springing up in you unto everlasting life.
And then may God grant unto you that your burdens may be light, through the joy of his Son.
And even all this can ye do if ye will.
Now, if a man murdereth, behold will our law, which is just, take the life of his brother?
Go unto this people and declare the word, and be sober.
Behold, he is the life and the light of the world.
Now go, my son, and teach the word unto this people.
Behold, has he not set a good example for thee? 39:2 For thou didst not give so much heed unto my words as did thy brother, among the people of the Zoramites.
Now this is what I have against thee; thou didst go on unto boasting in thy strength and thy wisdom. 39:3 And this is not all, my son.
And give heed to their counsel. 39:11 Suffer not yourself to be led away by any vain or foolish thing; suffer not the devil to lead away your heart again after those wicked harlots.
Behold, you marvel why these things should be known so long beforehand.
But behold, my son, the resurrection is not yet.
Now, I unfold unto you a mystery; nevertheless, there are many mysteries which are kept, that no one knoweth them save God himself.
But I show unto you one thing which I have inquired diligently of God that I might know-that is concerning the resurrection. 40:4 Behold, there is a time appointed that all shall come forth from the dead.
And I perceive that thy mind has been worried also concerning this thing.
How could he sin if there was no law?
I say unto you, Nay; not one whit.
If so, God would cease to be God. 42:26 And thus God bringeth about his great and eternal purposes, which were prepared from the foundation of the world.
And now, my son, go thy way, declare the word with truth and soberness, that thou mayest bring souls unto repentance, that the great plan of mercy may have claim upon them.
And may God grant unto you even according to my words.
Amen. Alma Chapter 43 43:1 And now it came to pass that the sons of Alma did go forth among the people, to declare the word unto them.
And Moroni said unto Zerahemnah: Behold, Zerahemnah, that we do not desire to be men of blood.
And now I would that ye should understand that this is done unto us because of our religion and our faith in Christ.
And it came to pass that Amalickiah sent again the second time, desiring him to come down.
Now this was the very thing which Amalickiah desired. 47:16 And it came to pass that he delivered his men, contrary to the commands of the king.
And thus ended the twenty and fourth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi. 50:36 And thus were the people of Morianton brought back.
But behold, if ye seek to destroy us more we will seek to destroy you; yea, and we will seek our land, the land of our first inheritance. 54:14 Now I close my epistle.
And thus ended the twenty and sixth year.
And now behold, we did not inquire of them concerning the prisoners; for behold, the Lamanites were upon us, and they returned in season to save us from falling into their hands.
And now, behold, I close mine epistle.
Behold, if ye have supposed this ye have supposed in vain. 60:12 Do ye suppose that, because so many of your brethren have been killed it is because of their wickedness?
For we know not but what ye yourselves are seeking for authority.
Yea, have ye forgotten the captivity of our fathers?
Behold I say unto you, Nay.
Now see that ye fulfil the word of God. 60:36 Behold, I am Moroni, your chief captain.
I seek not for power, but to pull it down.
I seek not for honor of the world, but for the glory of my God, and the freedom and welfare of my country.
And thus I close mine epistle. Alma Chapter 61 61:1 Behold, now it came to pass that soon after Moroni had sent his epistle unto the chief governor, he received an epistle from Pahoran, the chief governor.
And these are the words which he received: 61:2 I, Pahoran, who am the chief governor of this land, do send these words unto Moroni, the chief captain over the army.
I, Pahoran, do not seek for power, save only to retain my judgment-seat that I may preserve the rights and the liberty of my people.
And he went forth with a cord, from place to place, insomuch that he did find the king; and he did cast a javelin at him, which did pierce him near the heart.
And their judges, and their chief judges were chosen. 62:48 And the people of Nephi began to prosper again in the land, and began to multiply and to wax exceedingly strong again in the land.
And thus ended the thirty and seventh year. 63:7 And in the thirty and eighth year, this man built other ships.
And we suppose that they were drowned in the depths of the sea.
Their wars and contentions, and their dissensions.
And also many of the Lamanites are converted.
An account of their conversion.
And it came to pass that Coriantumr did smite him against the wall, insomuch that he died.
And they took their flight out of the land, by a secret way, into the wilderness; and thus when Helaman sent forth to take them they could nowhere be found. 2:12 And more of this Gadianton shall be spoken hereafter.
He gave unto the eldest the name of Nephi, and unto the youngest, the name of Lehi.
And these are the words which he spake: 5:6 Behold, my sons, I desire that ye should remember to keep the commandments of God; and I would that ye should declare unto the people these words.
And thus the sixty and fourth year did pass away in peace. 6:14 And in the sixty and fifth year they did also have great joy and peace, yea, much preaching and many prophecies concerning that which was to come.
And it came to pass that in the same year, that his son, who had been appointed by the people in his stead, was also murdered.
And now it had come to pass that there were many, even among the Nephites, of Gadianton's band.
But behold, they were more numerous among the more wicked part of the Lamanites.
Turn ye, turn ye unto the Lord your God.
O then why not the Son of God come, according to his prophecy? 8:21 And now will you dispute that Jerusalem was destroyed?
Will ye say that the sons of Zedekiah were not slain, all except it were Mulek? Yea, and do ye not behold that the seed of Zedekiah are with us, and they were driven out of the land of Jerusalem?
But behold, this is not all- 8:22 Our father Lehi was driven out of Jerusalem because he testified of these things.
And thou hast not feared them, and hast not sought thine own life, but hast sought my will, and to keep my commandments.
And there was a great famine upon the land, among all the people of Nephi.
And in the eighty and third year they began to wax strong in iniquity.
Yea, how long will ye suffer yourselves to be led by foolish and blind guides?
And then shall ye lament, and say: 13:33 O that I had repented, and had not killed the prophets, and stoned them, and cast them out.
Behold, our iniquities are great.
O Lord, canst thou not turn away thine anger from us?
And thus was the end of Giddianhi the robber. 4:15 And it came to pass that the armies of the Nephites did return again to their place of security.
Behold, mine arm of mercy is extended towards you, and whosoever will come, him will I receive; and blessed are those who come unto me. 9:15 Behold, I am Jesus Christ the Son of God.
I created the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are.
I was with the Father from the beginning.
I am in the Father, and the Father in me; and in me hath the Father glorified his name. 9:16 I came unto my own, and my own received me not.
And behold, are not we a remnant of the seed of Joseph?
Blessed be the name of the Most High God!
The salt shall be thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out and to be trodden under foot of men. 12:14 Verily, verily, I say unto you, I give unto you to be the light of this people.
A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. 12:15 Behold, do men light a candle and put it under a bushel?
And while ye are in prison can ye pay even one senine?
For behold, ye are they whom I have chosen to minister unto this people.
Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on.
Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment? 13:26 Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth them.
Are ye not much better than they? 13:27 Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his stature? 13:28 And why take ye thought for raiment?
Look unto me, and endure to the end, and ye shall live; for unto him that endureth to the end will I give eternal life. 15:10 Behold, I have given unto you the commandments; therefore keep my commandments.
And it shall be a testimony unto the Father that ye do always remember me.
And he commanded them that they should not cease to pray in their hearts. 20:2 And he commanded them that they should arise and stand up upon their feet.
And it came to pass that after they were written he expounded them.
Return unto me and I will return unto you, saith the Lord of Hosts.
But ye say: Wherein shall we return? 24:8 Will a man rob God?
But ye say: Wherein have we robbed thee?
Verily I say unto you, even as I am. 27:28 And now I go unto the Father.
And they did smite upon the people of Jesus; but the people of Jesus did not smite again.
And behold, I withstood him with forty and two thousand.
And it came to pass that I beat him with my army that he fled before me.
And we did give unto the Lamanites all the land southward. Mormon Chapter 3 3:1 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did not come to battle again until ten years more had passed away.
O ye fair ones, how could ye have rejected that Jesus, who stood with open arms to receive you! 6:18 Behold, if ye had not done this, ye would not have fallen.
But behold, they are gone, and I fulfil the commandment of my father.
And behold, I would write it also if I had room upon the plates, but I have not; and ore I have none, for I am alone.
Behold, I am Moroni; and were it possible, I would make all things known unto you. 8:13 Behold, I make an end of speaking concerning this people.
Behold, I cannot write them.
Why are ye ashamed to take upon you the name of Christ?
Do ye suppose that ye shall dwell with him under a consciousness of your guilt?
Has the end come yet?
Behold I say unto you, Nay; and God has not ceased to be a God of miracles. 9:16 Behold, are not the things that God hath wrought marvelous in our eyes?
Who can deny his sayings?
Who will rise up against the almighty power of the Lord?
Who will despise the works of the Lord?
Who will despise the children of Christ?
And who knoweth but the Lord will carry us forth into a land which is choice above all the earth?
And there shall be none greater than the nation which I will raise up unto me of thy seed, upon all the face of the earth.
And it came to pass that the brother of Jared did go to work, and also his brethren, and built barges after the manner which they had built, according to the instructions of the Lord.
Behold, O Lord, wilt thou suffer that we shall cross this great water in darkness? 2:23 And the Lord said unto the brother of Jared: What will ye that I should do that ye may have light in your vessels?
Behold, I am Jesus Christ.
I am the Father and the Son.
Seest thou that ye are created after mine own image?
I am the same that leadeth men to all good; he that will not believe my words will not believe me-that I am; and he that will not believe me will not believe the Father who sent me.
And behold it is I that hath spoken it.
And the brother of Jared said unto them: Surely this thing leadeth into captivity. 6:24 But Jared said unto his brother: Suffer them that they may have a king.
And it came to pass that he refused and would not be their king.
And Omer begat Jared; and Jared begat sons and daughters. 8:2 And Jared rebelled against his father, and came and dwelt in the land of Heth.
And it came to pass that she did talk with her father, and said unto him: Whereby hath my father so much sorrow?
Hath he not read the record which our fathers brought across the great deep?
And it came to pass that he had no children even until he was exceedingly old. 9:24 And it came to pass that his wife died, being an hundred and two years old.
And Shez did live to an exceedingly old age; and he begat Riplakish.
And in the days of Lib the poisonous serpents were destroyed.
Wherefore they did go into the land southward, to hunt food for the people of the land, for the land was covered with animals of the forest.
And they did work all manner of work of exceedingly curious workmanship. 10:28 And never could be a people more blessed than were they, and more prospered by the hand of the Lord.
And when Hearthom had reigned twenty and four years, behold, the kingdom was taken away from him.
And he served many years in captivity, yea, even all the remainder of his days. 10:31 And he begat Heth, and Heth lived in captivity all his days.
Amen. Moroni Chapter 6 6:1 And now I speak concerning baptism.
Or has he withheld the power of the Holy Ghost from them?
How is it that ye can attain unto faith, save ye shall have hope? 7:41 And what is it that ye shall hope for?
Amen. Moroni Chapter 8 8:1 An epistle of my father Mormon, written to me, Moroni; and it was written unto me soon after my calling to the ministry.
And the word of the Lord came to me by the power of the Holy Ghost, saying: 8:8 Listen to the words of Christ, your Redeemer, your Lord and your God.
I speak it boldly; God hath commanded me.
Listen unto them and give heed, or they stand against you at the judgment-seat of Christ. 8:22 For behold that all little children are alive in Christ, and also all they that are without the law.
Behold, the pride of this nation, or the people of the Nephites, hath proven their destruction except they should repent. 8:28 Pray for them, my son, that repentance may come unto them.
They are without order and without mercy.
The Federalist Papers by Alexander Hamilton and John Jay and James Madison Contents FEDERALIST No. I.
General Introduction FEDERALIST No. II.
Concerning Dangers from Foreign Force and Influence FEDERALIST No. III.
The Same Subject Continued (Concerning Dangers From Foreign Force and Influence) FEDERALIST No. IV.
The Same Subject Continued (Concerning Dangers From Foreign Force and Influence) FEDERALIST No. V.
The Same Subject Continued (Concerning Dangers From Foreign Force and Influence) FEDERALIST No. VI.
Concerning Dangers from Dissensions Between the States FEDERALIST No. VII.
The Same Subject Continued (Concerning Dangers from Dissensions Between the States) FEDERALIST No. VIII.
The Consequences of Hostilities Between the States FEDERALIST No. IX.
The Union as a Safeguard Against Domestic Faction and Insurrection FEDERALIST No. X.
The Same Subject Continued (The Union as a Safeguard Against Domestic Faction and Insurrection) FEDERALIST No. XI.
The Utility of the Union in Respect to Commercial Relations and a Navy FEDERALIST No. XII.
The Utility of the Union In Respect to Revenue FEDERALIST No. XIII.
Advantage of the Union in Respect to Economy in Government FEDERALIST No. XIV.
Objections to the Proposed Constitution From Extent of Territory Answered FEDERALIST No. XV.
The Insufficiency of the Present Confederation to Preserve the Union FEDERALIST No. XVI.
The Same Subject Continued (The Insufficiency of the Present Confederation to Preserve the Union) FEDERALIST No. XVII.
The Same Subject Continued (The Insufficiency of the Present Confederation to Preserve the Union) FEDERALIST No. XVIII.
The Same Subject Continued (The Insufficiency of the Present Confederation to Preserve the Union) FEDERALIST No. XIX.
The Same Subject Continued (The Insufficiency of the Present Confederation to Preserve the Union) FEDERALIST No. XX.
The Same Subject Continued (The Insufficiency of the Present Confederation to Preserve the Union) FEDERALIST No. XXI.
Other Defects of the Present Confederation FEDERALIST No. XXII.
The Same Subject Continued (Other Defects of the Present Confederation) FEDERALIST No. XXIII.
The Necessity of a Government as Energetic as the One Proposed to the Preservation of the Union FEDERALIST No. XXIV.
The Powers Necessary to the Common Defense Further Considered FEDERALIST No. XXV.
The Same Subject Continued (The Powers Necessary to the Common Defense Further Considered) FEDERALIST No. XXVI.
The Idea of Restraining the Legislative Authority in Regard to the Common Defense Considered. FEDERALIST No. XXVII.
The Same Subject Continued (The Idea of Restraining the Legislative Authority in Regard to the Common Defense Considered) FEDERALIST No. XXVIII.
The Same Subject Continued (The Idea of Restraining the Legislative Authority in Regard to the Common Defense Considered) FEDERALIST No. XXIX.
Concerning the Militia FEDERALIST No. XXX.
Concerning the General Power of Taxation FEDERALIST No. XXXI.
The Same Subject Continued (Concerning the General Power of Taxation) FEDERALIST No. XXXII.
The Same Subject Continued (Concerning the General Power of Taxation) FEDERALIST No. XXXIII.
The Same Subject Continued (Concerning the General Power of Taxation) FEDERALIST No. XXXIV.
The Same Subject Continued (Concerning the General Power of Taxation) FEDERALIST No. XXXV.
The Same Subject Continued (Concerning the General Power of Taxation) FEDERALIST No. XXXVI.
The Same Subject Continued (Concerning the General Power of Taxation) FEDERALIST No. XXXVII.
Concerning the Difficulties of the Convention in Devising a Proper Form of Government. FEDERALIST No. XXXVIII.
The Same Subject Continued, and the Incoherence of the Objections to the New Plan Exposed. FEDERALIST No. XXXIX.
The Conformity of the Plan to Republican Principles FEDERALIST No. XL.
On the Powers of the Convention to Form a Mixed Government Examined and Sustained. FEDERALIST No. XLI.
General View of the Powers Conferred by The Constitution FEDERALIST No. XLII.
The Powers Conferred by the Constitution Further Considered FEDERALIST No. XLIII.
The Same Subject Continued (The Powers Conferred by the Constitution Further Considered) FEDERALIST No. XLIV.
Restrictions on the Authority of the Several States FEDERALIST No. XLV.
The Alleged Danger From the Powers of the Union to the State Governments. FEDERALIST No. XLVI.
The Influence of the State and Federal Governments Compared FEDERALIST No. XLVII.
The Particular Structure of the New Government and the Distribution of Power Among Its Different Parts. FEDERALIST No. XLVIII.
These Departments Should Not Be So Far Separated as to Have No Constitutional Control Over Each Other. FEDERALIST No. XLIX.
Method of Guarding Against the Encroachments of Any One Department of Government by Appealing to the People Through a Convention. FEDERALIST No. L.
Periodical Appeals to the People Considered FEDERALIST No. LI.
The Structure of the Government Must Furnish the Proper Checks and Balances Between the Different Departments. FEDERALIST No. LII.
The House of Representatives FEDERALIST No. LIII.
The Same Subject Continued (The House of Representatives) FEDERALIST No. LIV.
The Apportionment of Members Among the States FEDERALIST No. LV.
The Total Number of the House of Representatives FEDERALIST No. LVI.
The Same Subject Continued (The Total Number of the House of Representatives) FEDERALIST No. LVII.
The Alleged Tendency of the New Plan to Elevate the Few at the Expense of the Many Considered in Connection with Representation. FEDERALIST No. LVIII.
Objection That The Number of Members Will Not Be Augmented as the Progress of Population Demands. FEDERALIST No. LIV.
Concerning the Power of Congress to Regulate the Election of Members FEDERALIST No. LX.
The Same Subject Continued (Concerning the Power of Congress to Regulate the Election of Members) FEDERALIST No. LXI.
The Same Subject Continued (Concerning the Power of Congress to Regulate the Election of Members) FEDERALIST No. LXII.
The Senate FEDERALIST No. LXIII.
The Senate Continued FEDERALIST No. LXIV.
The Powers of the Senate FEDERALIST No. LXV.
The Powers of the Senate Continued FEDERALIST No. LXVI.
Objections to the Power of the Senate To Set as a Court for Impeachments Further Considered. FEDERALIST No. LXVII.
The Executive Department FEDERALIST No. LXVIII.
The Mode of Electing the President FEDERALIST No. LXIX.
The Real Character of the Executive FEDERALIST No. LXX.
The Executive Department Further Considered FEDERALIST No. LXX.
The Executive Department Further Considered FEDERALIST No. LXXI.
The Duration in Office of the Executive FEDERALIST No. LXXII.
The Same Subject Continued, and Re-Eligibility of the Executive Considered. FEDERALIST No. LXXIII.
The Provision For The Support of the Executive, and the Veto Power FEDERALIST No. LXXIV.
The Command of the Military and Naval Forces, and the Pardoning Power of the Executive. FEDERALIST No. LXXV.
The Treaty-Making Power of the Executive FEDERALIST No. LXXVI.
The Appointing Power of the Executive FEDERALIST No. LXXVII.
The Appointing Power Continued and Other Powers of the Executive Considered. FEDERALIST No. LXXVIII.
The Judiciary Department FEDERALIST No. LXXIX.
The Judiciary Continued FEDERALIST No. LXXX.
The Powers of the Judiciary FEDERALIST No. LXXXI.
The Judiciary Continued, and the Distribution of the Judicial Authority. FEDERALIST No. LXXXII.
The Judiciary Continued. FEDERALIST No. LXXXIII.
The Judiciary Continued in Relation to Trial by Jury FEDERALIST No. LXXXIV.
Certain General and Miscellaneous Objections to the Constitution Considered and Answered. FEDERALIST No. LXXXV.
Happy will it be if our choice should be directed by a judicious estimate of our true interests, unperplexed and unbiased by considerations not connected with the public good.
I am well aware that it would be disingenuous to resolve indiscriminately the opposition of any set of men (merely because their situations might subject them to suspicion) into interested or ambitious views.
This circumstance, if duly attended to, would furnish a lesson of moderation to those who are ever so much persuaded of their being in the right in any controversy.
And a further reason for caution, in this respect, might be drawn from the reflection that we are not always sure that those who advocate the truth are influenced by purer principles than their antagonists.
Ambition, avarice, personal animosity, party opposition, and many other motives not more laudable than these, are apt to operate as well upon those who support as those who oppose the right side of a question.
Were there not even these inducements to moderation, nothing could be more ill-judged than that intolerant spirit which has, at all times, characterized political parties.
For in politics, as in religion, it is equally absurd to aim at making proselytes by fire and sword.
Heresies in either can rarely be cured by persecution. And yet, however just these sentiments will be allowed to be, we have already sufficient indications that it will happen in this as in all former cases of great national discussion.
A torrent of angry and malignant passions will be let loose.
It will be forgotten, on the one hand, that jealousy is the usual concomitant of love, and that the noble enthusiasm of liberty is apt to be infected with a spirit of narrow and illiberal distrust.
You will, no doubt, at the same time, have collected from the general scope of them, that they proceed from a source not unfriendly to the new Constitution.
I affect not reserves which I do not feel. I will not amuse you with an appearance of deliberation when I have decided.
I frankly acknowledge to you my convictions, and I will freely lay before you the reasons on which they are founded.
The consciousness of good intentions disdains ambiguity.
I shall not, however, multiply professions on this head.
My motives must remain in the depository of my own breast.
My arguments will be open to all, and may be judged of by all.
For nothing can be more evident, to those who are able to take an enlarged view of the subject, than the alternative of an adoption of the new Constitution or a dismemberment of the Union.
It will therefore be of use to begin by examining the advantages of that Union, the certain evils, and the probable dangers, to which every State will be exposed from its dissolution.
Providence has in a particular manner blessed it with a variety of soils and productions, and watered it with innumerable streams, for the delight and accommodation of its inhabitants.
To all general purposes we have uniformly been one people each individual citizen everywhere enjoying the same national rights, privileges, and protection.
It is not to be wondered at, that a government instituted in times so inauspicious, should on experiment be found greatly deficient and inadequate to the purpose it was intended to answer. This intelligent people perceived and regretted these defects.
But this (as was remarked in the foregoing number of this paper) is more to be wished than expected, that it may be so considered and examined.
Experience on a former occasion teaches us not to be too sanguine in such hopes.
It is not yet forgotten that well-grounded apprehensions of imminent danger induced the people of America to form the memorable Congress of 1774.
That body recommended certain measures to their constituents, and the event proved their wisdom; yet it is fresh in our memories how soon the press began to teem with pamphlets and weekly papers against those very measures.
Many, indeed, were deceived and deluded, but the great majority of the people reasoned and decided judiciously; and happy they are in reflecting that they did so. They considered that the Congress was composed of many wise and experienced men.
That, being convened from different parts of the country, they brought with them and communicated to each other a variety of useful information.
That, in the course of the time they passed together in inquiring into and discussing the true interests of their country, they must have acquired very accurate knowledge on that head.
To preserve and perpetuate it was the great object of the people in forming that convention, and it is also the great object of the plan which the convention has advised them to adopt.
With what propriety, therefore, or for what good purposes, are attempts at this particular period made by some men to depreciate the importance of the Union?
Or why is it suggested that three or four confederacies would be better than one?
As the former of these comes first in order, it is proper it should be the first discussed.
America has already formed treaties with no less than six foreign nations, and all of them, except Prussia, are maritime, and therefore able to annoy and injure us.
They will be more temperate and cool, and in that respect, as well as in others, will be more in capacity to act advisedly than the offending State.
The pride of states, as well as of men, naturally disposes them to justify all their actions, and opposes their acknowledging, correcting, or repairing their errors and offenses.
He demanded that they should send their Doge, or chief magistrate, accompanied by four of their senators, to FRANCE, to ask his pardon and receive his terms.
They were obliged to submit to it for the sake of peace.
These and a variety of other motives, which affect only the mind of the sovereign, often lead him to engage in wars not sanctified by justice or the voice and interests of his people.
Wisely, therefore, do they consider union and a good national government as necessary to put and keep them in SUCH A SITUATION as, instead of INVITING war, will tend to repress and discourage it.
It can move on uniform principles of policy.
It can harmonize, assimilate, and protect the several parts and members, and extend the benefit of its foresight and precautions to each.
In the formation of treaties, it will regard the interest of the whole, and the particular interests of the parts as connected with that of the whole.
It can apply the resources and power of the whole to the defense of any particular part, and that more easily and expeditiously than State governments or separate confederacies can possibly do, for want of concert and unity of system.
Leave America divided into thirteen or, if you please, into three or four independent governments-what armies could they raise and pay-what fleets could they ever hope to have?
If one was attacked, would the others fly to its succor, and spend their blood and money in its defense?
Although such conduct would not be wise, it would, nevertheless, be natural.
How, and when, and in what proportion shall aids of men and money be afforded?
Who shall command the allied armies, and from which of them shall he receive his orders?
Who shall settle the terms of peace, and in case of disputes what umpire shall decide between them and compel acquiescence?
It must increase your strength, riches, and trade; and by this union the whole island, being joined in affection and free from all apprehensions of different interest, will be ENABLED TO RESIST ALL ITS ENEMIES.
This subject is copious and cannot easily be exhausted. The history of Great Britain is the one with which we are in general the best acquainted, and it gives us many useful lessons.
Would not similar jealousies arise, and be in like manner cherished?
Both those passions would lead them to countenance, if not to promote, whatever might promise to diminish her importance; and would also restrain them from measures calculated to advance or even to secure her prosperity.
Much time would not be necessary to enable her to discern these unfriendly dispositions.
She would soon begin, not only to lose confidence in her neighbors, but also to feel a disposition equally unfavorable to them.
No sooner would this become evident than the NORTHERN HIVE would excite the same ideas and sensations in the more southern parts of America which it formerly did in the southern parts of Europe.
The proposed confederacies will be DISTINCT NATIONS.
Each of them would have its commerce with foreigners to regulate by distinct treaties; and as their productions and commodities are different and proper for different markets, so would those treaties be essentially different.
Different commercial concerns must create different interests, and of course different degrees of political attachment to and connection with different foreign nations.
Hence it might and probably would happen that the foreign nation with whom the SOUTHERN confederacy might be at war would be the one with whom the NORTHERN confederacy would be the most desirous of preserving peace and friendship.
And here let us not forget how much more easy it is to receive foreign fleets into our ports, and foreign armies into our country, than it is to persuade or compel them to depart.
I shall now proceed to delineate dangers of a different and, perhaps, still more alarming kind-those which will in all probability flow from dissensions between the States themselves, and from domestic factions and convulsions.
To presume a want of motives for such contests as an argument against their existence, would be to forget that men are ambitious, vindictive, and rapacious.
There are some which have a general and almost constant operation upon the collective bodies of society.
Of this description are the love of power or the desire of pre-eminence and dominion-the jealousy of power, or the desire of equality and safety.
There are others which have a more circumscribed though an equally operative influence within their spheres.
Such are the rivalships and competitions of commerce between commercial nations.
And there are others, not less numerous than either of the former, which take their origin entirely in private passions; in the attachments, enmities, interests, hopes, and fears of leading individuals in the communities of which they are members.
Perhaps, however, a reference, tending to illustrate the general principle, may with propriety be made to a case which has lately happened among ourselves.
The genius of republics (say they) is pacific; the spirit of commerce has a tendency to soften the manners of men, and to extinguish those inflammable humors which have so often kindled into wars.
Commercial republics, like ours, will never be disposed to waste themselves in ruinous contentions with each other.
Has it not, on the contrary, invariably been found that momentary passions, and immediate interest, have a more active and imperious control over human conduct than general or remote considerations of policy, utility or justice?
Have republics in practice been less addicted to war than monarchies?
Are not the former administered by MEN as well as the latter?
Are there not aversions, predilections, rivalships, and desires of unjust acquisitions, that affect nations as well as kings?
Are not popular assemblies frequently subject to the impulses of rage, resentment, jealousy, avarice, and of other irregular and violent propensities?
Is it not well known that their determinations are often governed by a few individuals in whom they place confidence, and are, of course, liable to be tinctured by the passions and views of those individuals?
Has commerce hitherto done anything more than change the objects of war?
Is not the love of wealth as domineering and enterprising a passion as that of power or glory?
Have there not been as many wars founded upon commercial motives since that has become the prevailing system of nations, as were before occasioned by the cupidity of territory or dominion?
Has not the spirit of commerce, in many instances, administered new incentives to the appetite, both for the one and for the other?
Let experience, the least fallible guide of human opinions, be appealed to for an answer to these inquiries. Sparta, Athens, Rome, and Carthage were all republics; two of them, Athens and Carthage, of the commercial kind.
Yet were they as often engaged in wars, offensive and defensive, as the neighboring monarchies of the same times.
Sparta was little better than a wellregulated camp; and Rome was never sated of carnage and conquest. Carthage, though a commercial republic, was the aggressor in the very war that ended in her destruction.
Commerce has been for ages the predominant pursuit of that country.
The cries of the nation and the importunities of their representatives have, upon various occasions, dragged their monarchs into war, or continued them in it, contrary to their inclinations, and sometimes contrary to the real interests of the State.
The complaints of the merchants kindled a violent flame throughout the nation, which soon after broke out in the House of Commons, and was communicated from the body to the ministry.
Have we not already seen enough of the fallacy and extravagance of those idle theories which have amused us with promises of an exemption from the imperfections, weaknesses and evils incident to society in every shape?
It would be a full answer to this question to say-precisely the same inducements which have, at different times, deluged in blood all the nations in the world.
But, unfortunately for us, the question admits of a more particular answer.
Perhaps the greatest proportion of wars that have desolated the earth have sprung from this origin.
This cause would exist among us in full force.
We have a vast tract of unsettled territory within the boundaries of the United States.
There still are discordant and undecided claims between several of them, and the dissolution of the Union would lay a foundation for similar claims between them all.
It is well known that they have heretofore had serious and animated discussion concerning the rights to the lands which were ungranted at the time of the Revolution, and which usually went under the name of crown lands.
This, it has been said, was at all events an acquisition to the Confederacy by compact with a foreign power.
It has been the prudent policy of Congress to appease this controversy, by prevailing upon the States to make cessions to the United States for the benefit of the whole.
This has been so far accomplished as, under a continuation of the Union, to afford a decided prospect of an amicable termination of the dispute.
A dismemberment of the Confederacy, however, would revive this dispute, and would create others on the same subject.
At present, a large part of the vacant Western territory is, by cession at least, if not by any anterior right, the common property of the Union.
Their argument would be, that a grant, once made, could not be revoked; and that the justice of participating in territory acquired or secured by the joint efforts of the Confederacy, remained undiminished.
If, contrary to probability, it should be admitted by all the States, that each had a right to a share of this common stock, there would still be a difficulty to be surmounted, as to a proper rule of apportionment.
To reason from the past to the future, we shall have good ground to apprehend, that the sword would sometimes be appealed to as the arbiter of their differences.
The circumstances of the dispute between Connecticut and Pennsylvania, respecting the land at Wyoming, admonish us not to be sanguine in expecting an easy accommodation of such differences.
The articles of confederation obliged the parties to submit the matter to the decision of a federal court.
The submission was made, and the court decided in favor of Pennsylvania.
But Connecticut gave strong indications of dissatisfaction with that determination; nor did she appear to be entirely resigned to it, till, by negotiation and management, something like an equivalent was found for the loss she supposed herself to have sustained.
Nothing here said is intended to convey the slightest censure on the conduct of that State.
These were New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Connecticut.
New Jersey and Rhode Island, upon all occasions, discovered a warm zeal for the independence of Vermont; and Maryland, till alarmed by the appearance of a connection between Canada and that State, entered deeply into the same views.
These being small States, saw with an unfriendly eye the perspective of our growing greatness.
The States less favorably circumstanced would be desirous of escaping from the disadvantages of local situation, and of sharing in the advantages of their more fortunate neighbors.
Each State, or separate confederacy, would pursue a system of commercial policy peculiar to itself.
This would occasion distinctions, preferences, and exclusions, which would beget discontent.
The spirit of enterprise, which characterizes the commercial part of America, has left no occasion of displaying itself unimproved.
It is not at all probable that this unbridled spirit would pay much respect to those regulations of trade by which particular States might endeavor to secure exclusive benefits to their own citizens.
The relative situation of New York, Connecticut, and New Jersey would afford an example of this kind. New York, from the necessities of revenue, must lay duties on her importations.
A great part of these duties must be paid by the inhabitants of the two other States in the capacity of consumers of what we import.
New York would neither be willing nor able to forego this advantage.
Should we be able to preserve it against the incumbent weight of Connecticut on the one side, and the co-operating pressure of New Jersey on the other?
These are questions that temerity alone will answer in the affirmative. The public debt of the Union would be a further cause of collision between the separate States or confederacies.
The apportionment, in the first instance, and the progressive extinguishment afterward, would be alike productive of ill-humor and animosity.
How would it be possible to agree upon a rule of apportionment satisfactory to all?
There is scarcely any that can be proposed which is entirely free from real objections.
These, as usual, would be exaggerated by the adverse interest of the parties.
There are even dissimilar views among the States as to the general principle of discharging the public debt.
These would be inclined to magnify the difficulties of a distribution.
Others of them, a numerous body of whose citizens are creditors to the public beyond proportion of the State in the total amount of the national debt, would be strenuous for some equitable and effective provision.
The procrastinations of the former would excite the resentments of the latter.
The settlement of a rule would, in the meantime, be postponed by real differences of opinion and affected delays.
Still there is great room to suppose that the rule agreed upon would, upon experiment, be found to bear harder upon some States than upon others.
Those which were sufferers by it would naturally seek for a mitigation of the burden.
The others would as naturally be disinclined to a revision, which was likely to end in an increase of their own incumbrances.
Their refusal would be too plausible a pretext to the complaining States to withhold their contributions, not to be embraced with avidity; and the non-compliance of these States with their engagements would be a ground of bitter discussion and altercation.
There is, perhaps, nothing more likely to disturb the tranquillity of nations than their being bound to mutual contributions for any common object that does not yield an equal and coincident benefit.
The art of fortification has contributed to the same ends.
The nations of Europe are encircled with chains of fortified places, which mutually obstruct invasion.
Campaigns are wasted in reducing two or three frontier garrisons, to gain admittance into an enemy's country.
Similar impediments occur at every step, to exhaust the strength and delay the progress of an invader.
The jealousy of military establishments would postpone them as long as possible.
The want of fortifications, leaving the frontiers of one state open to another, would facilitate inroads.
The populous States would, with little difficulty, overrun their less populous neighbors.
Conquests would be as easy to be made as difficult to be retained.
War, therefore, would be desultory and predatory.
PLUNDER and devastation ever march in the train of irregulars.
The calamities of individuals would make the principal figure in the events which would characterize our military exploits. This picture is not too highly wrought; though, I confess, it would not long remain a just one.
Safety from external danger is the most powerful director of national conduct.
Even the ardent love of liberty will, after a time, give way to its dictates.
To be more safe, they at length become willing to run the risk of being less free. The institutions chiefly alluded to are STANDING ARMIES and the correspondent appendages of military establishments.
Standing armies, it is said, are not provided against in the new Constitution; and it is therefore inferred that they may exist under it.[1] Their existence, however, from the very terms of the proposition, is, at most, problematical and uncertain.
But standing armies, it may be replied, must inevitably result from a dissolution of the Confederacy.
Frequent war and constant apprehension, which require a state of as constant preparation, will infallibly produce them.
The weaker States or confederacies would first have recourse to them, to put themselves upon an equality with their more potent neighbors.
They would endeavor to supply the inferiority of population and resources by a more regular and effective system of defense, by disciplined troops, and by fortifications.
They would, at the same time, be necessitated to strengthen the executive arm of government, in doing which their constitutions would acquire a progressive direction toward monarchy.
Different answers, equally satisfactory, may be given to this question.
These armies being, in the first case, rarely, if at all, called into activity for interior defense, the people are in no danger of being broken to military subordination.
The perpetual menacings of danger oblige the government to be always prepared to repel it; its armies must be numerous enough for instant defense.
The continual necessity for their services enhances the importance of the soldier, and proportionably degrades the condition of the citizen.
The military state becomes elevated above the civil.
An insular situation, and a powerful marine, guarding it in a great measure against the possibility of foreign invasion, supersede the necessity of a numerous army within the kingdom.
A sufficient force to make head against a sudden descent, till the militia could have time to rally and embody, is all that has been deemed requisite.
No motive of national policy has demanded, nor would public opinion have tolerated, a larger number of troops upon its domestic establishment.
Europe is at a great distance from us.
Her colonies in our vicinity will be likely to continue too much disproportioned in strength to be able to give us any dangerous annoyance.
Extensive military establishments cannot, in this position, be necessary to our security.
It deserves the most serious and mature consideration of every prudent and honest man of whatever party.
If they exhibit occasional calms, these only serve as short-lived contrast to the furious storms that are to succeed.
They have decried all free government as inconsistent with the order of society, and have indulged themselves in malicious exultation over its friends and partisans.
Happily for mankind, stupendous fabrics reared on the basis of liberty, which have flourished for ages, have, in a few glorious instances, refuted their gloomy sophisms.
If it had been found impracticable to have devised models of a more perfect structure, the enlightened friends to liberty would have been obliged to abandon the cause of that species of government as indefensible.
The science of politics, however, like most other sciences, has received great improvement.
The efficacy of various principles is now well understood, which were either not known at all, or imperfectly known to the ancients.
They are means, and powerful means, by which the excellences of republican government may be retained and its imperfections lessened or avoided.
The latter is that which immediately concerns the object under consideration.
It has been practiced upon in different countries and ages, and has received the sanction of the most approved writers on the subject of politics.
The opponents of the plan proposed have, with great assiduity, cited and circulated the observations of Montesquieu on the necessity of a contracted territory for a republican government.
Neither Virginia, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, New York, North Carolina, nor Georgia can by any means be compared with the models from which he reasoned and to which the terms of his description apply.
I mean a CONFEDERATE REPUBLIC. "This form of government is a convention by which several smaller STATES agree to become members of a larger ONE, which they intend to form.
The form of this society prevents all manner of inconveniences. "If a single member should attempt to usurp the supreme authority, he could not be supposed to have an equal authority and credit in all the confederate states.
Were he to have too great influence over one, this would alarm the rest.
Should abuses creep into one part, they are reformed by those that remain sound.
The essential characteristic of the first is said to be, the restriction of its authority to the members in their collective capacities, without reaching to the individuals of whom they are composed.
It is contended that the national council ought to have no concern with any object of internal administration.
An exact equality of suffrage between the members has also been insisted upon as a leading feature of a confederate government.
These positions are, in the main, arbitrary; they are supported neither by principle nor precedent.
The extent, modifications, and objects of the federal authority are mere matters of discretion.
The COMMON COUNCIL had the appointment of all the judges and magistrates of the respective CITIES.
This was certainly the most, delicate species of interference in their internal administration; for if there be any thing that seems exclusively appropriated to the local jurisdictions, it is the appointment of their own officers.
Yet Montesquieu, speaking of this association, says: "Were I to give a model of an excellent Confederate Republic, it would be that of Lycia.
The friend of popular governments never finds himself so much alarmed for their character and fate, as when he contemplates their propensity to this dangerous vice.
He will not fail, therefore, to set a due value on any plan which, without violating the principles to which he is attached, provides a proper cure for it.
However anxiously we may wish that these complaints had no foundation, the evidence, of known facts will not permit us to deny that they are in some degree true.
Liberty is to faction what air is to fire, an aliment without which it instantly expires.
The protection of these faculties is the first object of government.
So strong is this propensity of mankind to fall into mutual animosities, that where no substantial occasion presents itself, the most frivolous and fanciful distinctions have been sufficient to kindle their unfriendly passions and excite their most violent conflicts.
But the most common and durable source of factions has been the various and unequal distribution of property.
Those who hold and those who are without property have ever formed distinct interests in society.
Those who are creditors, and those who are debtors, fall under a like discrimination.
A landed interest, a manufacturing interest, a mercantile interest, a moneyed interest, with many lesser interests, grow up of necessity in civilized nations, and divide them into different classes, actuated by different sentiments and views.
And what are the different classes of legislators but advocates and parties to the causes which they determine?
Is a law proposed concerning private debts?
It is a question to which the creditors are parties on one side and the debtors on the other.
Justice ought to hold the balance between them.
Yet the parties are, and must be, themselves the judges; and the most numerous party, or, in other words, the most powerful faction must be expected to prevail.
Enlightened statesmen will not always be at the helm.
It may clog the administration, it may convulse the society; but it will be unable to execute and mask its violence under the forms of the Constitution.
When a majority is included in a faction, the form of popular government, on the other hand, enables it to sacrifice to its ruling passion or interest both the public good and the rights of other citizens.
If the impulse and the opportunity be suffered to coincide, we well know that neither moral nor religious motives can be relied on as an adequate control.
Under such a regulation, it may well happen that the public voice, pronounced by the representatives of the people, will be more consonant to the public good than if pronounced by the people themselves, convened for the purpose.
On the other hand, the effect may be inverted.
Men of factious tempers, of local prejudices, or of sinister designs, may, by intrigue, by corruption, or by other means, first obtain the suffrages, and then betray the interests, of the people.
Does the advantage consist in the substitution of representatives whose enlightened views and virtuous sentiments render them superior to local prejudices and schemes of injustice?
It will not be denied that the representation of the Union will be most likely to possess these requisite endowments.
Does it consist in the greater security afforded by a greater variety of parties, against the event of any one party being able to outnumber and oppress the rest?
In an equal degree does the increased variety of parties comprised within the Union, increase this security.
Does it, in fine, consist in the greater obstacles opposed to the concert and accomplishment of the secret wishes of an unjust and interested majority?
Here, again, the extent of the Union gives it the most palpable advantage. The influence of factious leaders may kindle a flame within their particular States, but will be unable to spread a general conflagration through the other States.
A religious sect may degenerate into a political faction in a part of the Confederacy; but the variety of sects dispersed over the entire face of it must secure the national councils against any danger from that source.
They seem to be apprehensive of our too great interference in that carrying trade, which is the support of their navigation and the foundation of their naval strength.
Those of them which have colonies in America look forward to what this country is capable of becoming, with painful solicitude.
They foresee the dangers that may threaten their American dominions from the neighborhood of States, which have all the dispositions, and would possess all the means, requisite to the creation of a powerful marine.
Impressions of this kind will naturally indicate the policy of fostering divisions among us, and of depriving us, as far as possible, of an ACTIVE COMMERCE in our own bottoms.
This would answer the threefold purpose of preventing our interference in their navigation, of monopolizing the profits of our trade, and of clipping the wings by which we might soar to a dangerous greatness.
Suppose, for instance, we had a government in America, capable of excluding Great Britain (with whom we have at present no treaty of commerce) from all our ports; what would be the probable operation of this step upon her politics?
Would it not enable us to negotiate, with the fairest prospect of success, for commercial privileges of the most valuable and extensive kind, in the dominions of that kingdom?
When these questions have been asked, upon other occasions, they have received a plausible, but not a solid or satisfactory answer.
Would not the mere circumstance of freight occasion a considerable deduction?
A few ships of the line, sent opportunely to the reinforcement of either side, would often be sufficient to decide the fate of a campaign, on the event of which interests of the greatest magnitude were suspended.
Our position is, in this respect, a most commanding one.
A price would be set not only upon our friendship, but upon our neutrality.
The rights of neutrality will only be respected when they are defended by an adequate power.
This situation would even take away the motive to such combinations, by inducing an impracticability of success.
An active commerce, an extensive navigation, and a flourishing marine would then be the offspring of moral and physical necessity.
We might defy the little arts of the little politicians to control or vary the irresistible and unchangeable course of nature. But in a state of disunion, these combinations might exist and might operate with success.
We should then be compelled to content ourselves with the first price of our commodities, and to see the profits of our trade snatched from us to enrich our enemies and persecutors.
The dissolution of the Confederacy would give room for delicate questions concerning the future existence of these rights; which the interest of more powerful partners would hardly fail to solve to our disadvantage.
The disposition of Spain with regard to the Mississippi needs no comment. France and Britain are concerned with us in the fisheries, and view them as of the utmost moment to their navigation.
As a nursery of seamen, it now is, or when time shall have more nearly assimilated the principles of navigation in the several States, will become, a universal resource.
To the establishment of a navy, it must be indispensable. To this great national object, a NAVY, union will contribute in various ways.
Every institution will grow and flourish in proportion to the quantity and extent of the means concentred towards its formation and support.
A navy of the United States, as it would embrace the resources of all, is an object far less remote than a navy of any single State or partial confederacy, which would only embrace the resources of a single part.
It happens, indeed, that different portions of confederated America possess each some peculiar advantage for this essential establishment.
The more southern States furnish in greater abundance certain kinds of naval stores-tar, pitch, and turpentine.
Their wood for the construction of ships is also of a more solid and lasting texture.
The difference in the duration of the ships of which the navy might be composed, if chiefly constructed of Southern wood, would be of signal importance, either in the view of naval strength or of national economy.
Some of the Southern and of the Middle States yield a greater plenty of iron, and of better quality.
Seamen must chiefly be drawn from the Northern hive.
The veins of commerce in every part will be replenished, and will acquire additional motion and vigor from a free circulation of the commodities of every part.
Commercial enterprise will have much greater scope, from the diversity in the productions of different States.
When the staple of one fails from a bad harvest or unproductive crop, it can call to its aid the staple of another.
The variety, not less than the value, of products for exportation contributes to the activity of foreign commerce.
A unity of commercial, as well as political, interests, can only result from a unity of government. There are other points of view in which this subject might be placed, of a striking and animating kind.
But they would lead us too far into the regions of futurity, and would involve topics not proper for a newspaper discussion.
I shall briefly observe, that our situation invites and our interests prompt us to aim at an ascendant in the system of American affairs.
The world may politically, as well as geographically, be divided into four parts, each having a distinct set of interests.
Unhappily for the other three, Europe, by her arms and by her negotiations, by force and by fraud, has, in different degrees, extended her dominion over them all.
Africa, Asia, and America, have successively felt her domination.
It belongs to us to vindicate the honor of the human race, and to teach that assuming brother, moderation. Union will enable us to do it.
Disunion will will add another victim to his triumphs.
Let Americans disdain to be the instruments of European greatness!
The assiduous merchant, the laborious husbandman, the active mechanic, and the industrious manufacturer,-all orders of men, look forward with eager expectation and growing alacrity to this pleasing reward of their toils.
It has been found in various countries that, in proportion as commerce has flourished, land has risen in value.
And how could it have happened otherwise?
Commerce, contributing to both these objects, must of necessity render the payment of taxes easier, and facilitate the requisite supplies to the treasury.
The hereditary dominions of the Emperor of Germany contain a great extent of fertile, cultivated, and populous territory, a large proportion of which is situated in mild and luxuriant climates.
In some parts of this territory are to be found the best gold and silver mines in Europe.
And yet, from the want of the fostering influence of commerce, that monarch can boast but slender revenues.
Duties on imported articles form a large branch of this latter description. In America, it is evident that we must a long time depend for the means of revenue chiefly on such duties.
In most parts of it, excises must be confined within a narrow compass.
The genius of the people will ill brook the inquisitive and peremptory spirit of excise laws.
And it cannot admit of a serious doubt, that this state of things must rest on the basis of a general Union.
As far as this would be conducive to the interests of commerce, so far it must tend to the extension of the revenue to be drawn from that source.
The separate States or confederacies would be necessitated by mutual jealousy to avoid the temptations to that kind of trade by the lowness of their duties.
Mr. Neckar computes the number of these patrols at upwards of twenty thousand.
Vessels arriving directly from foreign countries, laden with valuable cargoes, would rarely choose to hazard themselves to the complicated and critical perils which would attend attempts to unlade prior to their coming into port.
A few armed vessels, judiciously stationed at the entrances of our ports, might at a small expense be made useful sentinels of the laws.
And the government having the same interest to provide against violations everywhere, the co-operation of its measures in each State would have a powerful tendency to render them effectual.
Here also we should preserve by Union, an advantage which nature holds out to us, and which would be relinquished by separation.
The United States lie at a great distance from Europe, and at a considerable distance from all other places with which they would have extensive connections of foreign trade.
The passage from them to us, in a few hours, or in a single night, as between the coasts of France and Britain, and of other neighboring nations, would be impracticable.
This is a prodigious security against a direct contraband with foreign countries; but a circuitous contraband to one State, through the medium of another, would be both easy and safe.
Hitherto, I believe, it may safely be asserted, that these duties have not upon an average exceeded in any State three per cent.
In France they are estimated to be about fifteen per cent., and in Britain they exceed this proportion.[1] There seems to be nothing to hinder their being increased in this country to at least treble their present amount.
The single article of ardent spirits, under federal regulation, might be made to furnish a considerable revenue.
Upon a ratio to the importation into this State, the whole quantity imported into the United States may be estimated at four millions of gallons; which, at a shilling per gallon, would produce two hundred thousand pounds.
There is, perhaps, nothing so much a subject of national extravagance as these spirits. What will be the consequence, if we are not able to avail ourselves of the resource in question in its full extent?
A nation cannot long exist without revenues.
Destitute of this essential support, it must resign its independence, and sink into the degraded condition of a province. This is an extremity to which no government will of choice accede. Revenue, therefore, must be had at all events.
In this country, if the principal part be not drawn from commerce, it must fall with oppressive weight upon land.
As the necessities of the State, nevertheless, must be satisfied in some mode or other, the defect of other resources must throw the principal weight of public burdens on the possessors of land.
Thus we shall not even have the consolations of a full treasury, to atone for the oppression of that valuable class of the citizens who are employed in the cultivation of the soil.
The money saved from one object may be usefully applied to another, and there will be so much the less to be drawn from the pockets of the people.
The entire separation of the States into thirteen unconnected sovereignties is a project too extravagant and too replete with danger to have many advocates.
The ideas of men who speculate upon the dismemberment of the empire seem generally turned toward three confederacies-one consisting of the four Northern, another of the four Middle, and a third of the five Southern States.
There is little probability that there would be a greater number.
According to this distribution, each confederacy would comprise an extent of territory larger than that of the kingdom of Great Britain.
No well-informed man will suppose that the affairs of such a confederacy can be properly regulated by a government less comprehensive in its organs or institutions than that which has been proposed by the convention.
When the dimensions of a State attain to a certain magnitude, it requires the same energy of government and the same forms of administration which are requisite in one of much greater extent.
If we attend carefully to geographical and commercial considerations, in conjunction with the habits and prejudices of the different States, we shall be led to conclude that in case of disunion they will most naturally league themselves under two governments.
The four Eastern States, from all the causes that form the links of national sympathy and connection, may with certainty be expected to unite.
New York, situated as she is, would never be unwise enough to oppose a feeble and unsupported flank to the weight of that confederacy.
There are other obvious reasons that would facilitate her accession to it.
New Jersey is too small a State to think of being a frontier, in opposition to this still more powerful combination; nor do there appear to be any obstacles to her admission into it.
Even Pennsylvania would have strong inducements to join the Northern league.
An active foreign commerce, on the basis of her own navigation, is her true policy, and coincides with the opinions and dispositions of her citizens.
The more Southern States, from various circumstances, may not think themselves much interested in the encouragement of navigation.
They may prefer a system which would give unlimited scope to all nations to be the carriers as well as the purchasers of their commodities.
Pennsylvania may not choose to confound her interests in a connection so adverse to her policy.
This would give her the fairest chance to avoid being the Flanders of America.
All that remains, within this branch of our inquiries, is to take notice of an objection that may be drawn from the great extent of country which the Union embraces.
I remark here only that it seems to owe its rise and prevalence chiefly to the confounding of a republic with a democracy, applying to the former reasonings drawn from the nature of the latter.
The true distinction between these forms was also adverted to on a former occasion.
It is, that in a democracy, the people meet and exercise the government in person; in a republic, they assemble and administer it by their representatives and agents.
A democracy, consequently, will be confined to a small spot.
A republic may be extended over a large region. To this accidental source of the error may be added the artifice of some celebrated authors, whose writings have had a great share in forming the modern standard of political opinions.
Can it be said that the limits of the United States exceed this distance?
The southern shore of Lake Erie lies below that latitude.
Computing the distance between the thirty-first and forty-fifth degrees, it amounts to nine hundred and seventy-three common miles; computing it from thirty-one to forty-two degrees, to seven hundred and sixty-four miles and a half.
Taking the mean for the distance, the amount will be eight hundred and sixty-eight miles and three-fourths.
The mean distance from the Atlantic to the Mississippi does not probably exceed seven hundred and fifty miles.
On a comparison of this extent with that of several countries in Europe, the practicability of rendering our system commensurate to it appears to be demonstrable.
It is not a great deal larger than Germany, where a diet representing the whole empire is continually assembled; or than Poland before the late dismemberment, where another national diet was the depositary of the supreme power.
Its jurisdiction is limited to certain enumerated objects, which concern all the members of the republic, but which are not to be attained by the separate provisions of any.
The subordinate governments, which can extend their care to all those other subjects which can be separately provided for, will retain their due authority and activity.
Roads will everywhere be shortened, and kept in better order; accommodations for travelers will be multiplied and meliorated; an interior navigation on our eastern side will be opened throughout, or nearly throughout, the whole extent of the thirteen States.
No, my countrymen, shut your ears against this unhallowed language.
But why is the experiment of an extended republic to be rejected, merely because it may comprise what is new?
To this manly spirit, posterity will be indebted for the possession, and the world for the example, of the numerous innovations displayed on the American theatre, in favor of private rights and public happiness.
Happily for America, happily, we trust, for the whole human race, they pursued a new and more noble course.
They accomplished a revolution which has no parallel in the annals of human society.
They reared the fabrics of governments which have no model on the face of the globe.
They formed the design of a great Confederacy, which it is incumbent on their successors to improve and perpetuate.
If their works betray imperfections, we wonder at the fewness of them.
In the sequel of the inquiry through which I propose to accompany you, the truths intended to be inculcated will receive further confirmation from facts and arguments hitherto unnoticed.
The facts that support this opinion are no longer objects of speculation.
There is scarcely anything that can wound the pride or degrade the character of an independent nation which we do not experience.
Are there engagements to the performance of which we are held by every tie respectable among men?
These are the subjects of constant and unblushing violation.
Do we owe debts to foreigners and to our own citizens contracted in a time of imminent peril for the preservation of our political existence?
These remain without any proper or satisfactory provision for their discharge.
Have we valuable territories and important posts in the possession of a foreign power which, by express stipulations, ought long since to have been surrendered?
These are still retained, to the prejudice of our interests, not less than of our rights.
Are we in a condition to resent or to repel the aggression?
We have neither troops, nor treasury, nor government.[1] Are we even in a condition to remonstrate with dignity? The just imputations on our own faith, in respect to the same treaty, ought first to be removed.
Are we entitled by nature and compact to a free participation in the navigation of the Mississippi?
Spain excludes us from it.
Is public credit an indispensable resource in time of public danger?
We seem to have abandoned its cause as desperate and irretrievable.
Is commerce of importance to national wealth?
Ours is at the lowest point of declension.
Is respectability in the eyes of foreign powers a safeguard against foreign encroachments?
The imbecility of our government even forbids them to treat with us.
Our ambassadors abroad are the mere pageants of mimic sovereignty.
Is a violent and unnatural decrease in the value of land a symptom of national distress?
Is private credit the friend and patron of industry?
That most useful kind which relates to borrowing and lending is reduced within the narrowest limits, and this still more from an opinion of insecurity than from the scarcity of money.
Here, my countrymen, impelled by every motive that ought to influence an enlightened people, let us make a firm stand for our safety, our tranquillity, our dignity, our reputation.
While they admit that the government of the United States is destitute of energy, they contend against conferring upon it those powers which are requisite to supply that energy.
Though this principle does not run through all the powers delegated to the Union, yet it pervades and governs those on which the efficacy of the rest depends.
Except as to the rule of appointment, the United States has an indefinite discretion to make requisitions for men and money; but they have no authority to raise either, by regulations extending to the individual citizens of America.
Compacts of this kind exist among all civilized nations, subject to the usual vicissitudes of peace and war, of observance and non-observance, as the interests or passions of the contracting powers dictate.
In the early part of the present century there was an epidemical rage in Europe for this species of compacts, from which the politicians of the times fondly hoped for benefits which were never realized.
It is essential to the idea of a law, that it be attended with a sanction; or, in other words, a penalty or punishment for disobedience.
If there be no penalty annexed to disobedience, the resolutions or commands which pretend to be laws will, in fact, amount to nothing more than advice or recommendation.
This penalty, whatever it may be, can only be inflicted in two ways: by the agency of the courts and ministers of justice, or by military force; by the COERCION of the magistracy, or by the COERCION of arms.
The first kind can evidently apply only to men; the last kind must of necessity, be employed against bodies politic, or communities, or States.
It is evident that there is no process of a court by which the observance of the laws can, in the last resort, be enforced.
Sentences may be denounced against them for violations of their duty; but these sentences can only be carried into execution by the sword.
This language, at the present day, would appear as wild as a great part of what we now hear from the same quarter will be thought, when we shall have received further lessons from that best oracle of wisdom, experience.
It at all times betrayed an ignorance of the true springs by which human conduct is actuated, and belied the original inducements to the establishment of civil power.
Why has government been instituted at all?
Because the passions of men will not conform to the dictates of reason and justice, without constraint.
Has it been found that bodies of men act with more rectitude or greater disinterestedness than individuals?
The contrary of this has been inferred by all accurate observers of the conduct of mankind; and the inference is founded upon obvious reasons.
Regard to reputation has a less active influence, when the infamy of a bad action is to be divided among a number than when it is to fall singly upon one.
This tendency is not difficult to be accounted for.
It has its origin in the love of power. Power controlled or abridged is almost always the rival and enemy of that power by which it is controlled or abridged.
The reverse of this results from the constitution of human nature. If, therefore, the measures of the Confederacy cannot be executed without the intervention of the particular administrations, there will be little prospect of their being executed at all.
The rulers of the respective members, whether they have a constitutional right to do it or not, will undertake to judge of the propriety of the measures themselves.
They will consider the conformity of the thing proposed or required to their immediate interests or aims; the momentary conveniences or inconveniences that would attend its adoption.
It has happened as was to have been foreseen.
Things did not come to this desperate extremity at once. The causes which have been specified produced at first only unequal and disproportionate degrees of compliance with the requisitions of the Union.
The greater deficiencies of some States furnished the pretext of example and the temptation of interest to the complying, or to the least delinquent States.
Why should we do more in proportion than those who are embarked with us in the same political voyage?
Why should we consent to bear more than our proper share of the common burden?
These were suggestions which human selfishness could not withstand, and which even speculative men, who looked forward to remote consequences, could not, without hesitation, combat.
The confirmations of this fact will be worthy of a distinct and particular examination.
It would rarely happen that the delinquency to be redressed would be confined to a single member, and if there were more than one who had neglected their duty, similarity of situation would induce them to unite for common defense.
Independent of this motive of sympathy, if a large and influential State should happen to be the aggressing member, it would commonly have weight enough with its neighbors to win over some of them as associates to its cause.
When the sword is once drawn, the passions of men observe no bounds of moderation.
The first war of this kind would probably terminate in a dissolution of the Union. This may be considered as the violent death of the Confederacy.
Its more natural death is what we now seem to be on the point of experiencing, if the federal system be not speedily renovated in a more substantial form.
It is not probable, considering the genius of this country, that the complying States would often be inclined to support the authority of the Union by engaging in a war against the non-complying States.
They would always be more ready to pursue the milder course of putting themselves upon an equal footing with the delinquent members by an imitation of their example.
And the guilt of all would thus become the security of all.
Our past experience has exhibited the operation of this spirit in its full light.
There would, in fact, be an insuperable difficulty in ascertaining when force could with propriety be employed.
In the article of pecuniary contribution, which would be the most usual source of delinquency, it would often be impossible to decide whether it had proceeded from disinclination or inability.
The pretense of the latter would always be at hand.
And the case must be very flagrant in which its fallacy could be detected with sufficient certainty to justify the harsh expedient of compulsion.
And yet this is the plain alternative involved by those who wish to deny it the power of extending its operations to individuals.
Such a scheme, if practicable at all, would instantly degenerate into a military despotism; but it will be found in every light impracticable.
It must carry its agency to the persons of the citizens.
It must stand in need of no intermediate legislations; but must itself be empowered to employ the arm of the ordinary magistrate to execute its own resolutions.
The majesty of the national authority must be manifested through the medium of the courts of justice.
If the interposition of the State legislatures be necessary to give effect to a measure of the Union, they have only NOT TO ACT, or to ACT EVASIVELY, and the measure is defeated.
This neglect of duty may be disguised under affected but unsubstantial provisions, so as not to appear, and of course not to excite any alarm in the people for the safety of the Constitution.
No omissions nor evasions would answer the end.
They would be obliged to act, and in such a manner as would leave no doubt that they had encroached on the national rights.
If the people were not tainted with the spirit of their State representatives, they, as the natural guardians of the Constitution, would throw their weight into the national scale and give it a decided preponderancy in the contest.
The magistracy, being equally the ministers of the law of the land, from whatever source it might emanate, would doubtless be as ready to guard the national as the local regulations from the inroads of private licentiousness.
When they happen, they commonly amount to revolutions and dismemberments of empire.
No form of government can always either avoid or control them.
The regulation of the mere domestic police of a State appears to me to hold out slender allurements to ambition.
Commerce, finance, negotiation, and war seem to comprehend all the objects which have charms for minds governed by that passion; and all the powers necessary to those objects ought, in the first instance, to be lodged in the national depository.
It will always be far more easy for the State governments to encroach upon the national authorities than for the national government to encroach upon the State authorities.
This, of all others, is the most powerful, most universal, and most attractive source of popular obedience and attachment.
Each principal vassal was a kind of sovereign, within his particular demesnes.
The consequences of this situation were a continual opposition to authority of the sovereign, and frequent wars between the great barons or chief feudatories themselves.
The power of the head of the nation was commonly too weak, either to preserve the public peace, or to protect the people against the oppressions of their immediate lords.
But in general, the power of the barons triumphed over that of the prince; and in many instances his dominion was entirely thrown off, and the great fiefs were erected into independent principalities or States.
In those instances in which the monarch finally prevailed over his vassals, his success was chiefly owing to the tyranny of those vassals over their dependents.
It will be well if they are not able to counteract its legitimate and necessary authority.
The Amphictyons were the guardians of religion, and of the immense riches belonging to the temple of Delphos, where they had the right of jurisdiction in controversies between the inhabitants and those who came to consult the oracle.
In several material instances, they exceed the powers enumerated in the articles of confederation.
The powers, like those of the present Congress, were administered by deputies appointed wholly by the cities in their political capacities; and exercised over them in the same capacities.
Hence the weakness, the disorders, and finally the destruction of the confederacy.
The more powerful members, instead of being kept in awe and subordination, tyrannized successively over all the rest.
Athens, as we learn from Demosthenes, was the arbiter of Greece seventy-three years.
The Athenians, finding that the Lacedaemonians would lose fewer partisans by such a measure than themselves, and would become masters of the public deliberations, vigorously opposed and defeated the attempt.
This piece of history proves at once the inefficiency of the union, the ambition and jealousy of its most powerful members, and the dependent and degraded condition of the rest.
Instead of this obvious policy, Athens and Sparta, inflated with the victories and the glory they had acquired, became first rivals and then enemies; and did each other infinitely more mischief than they had suffered from Xerxes.
The Phocians having ploughed up some consecrated ground belonging to the temple of Apollo, the Amphictyonic council, according to the superstition of the age, imposed a fine on the sacrilegious offenders.
The Phocians, being abetted by Athens and Sparta, refused to submit to the decree.
The Thebans, with others of the cities, undertook to maintain the authority of the Amphictyons, and to avenge the violated god.
The latter, being the weaker party, invited the assistance of Philip of Macedon, who had secretly fostered the contest. Philip gladly seized the opportunity of executing the designs he had long planned against the liberties of Greece.
It will accordingly appear, that though not exempt from a similar catastrophe, it by no means equally deserved it. The cities composing this league retained their municipal jurisdiction, appointed their own officers, and enjoyed a perfect equality.
But how far this effect proceeded from the authority of the federal council is left in uncertainty.
It is said only that the cities were in a manner compelled to receive the same laws and usages.
When Lacedaemon was brought into the league by Philopoemen, it was attended with an abolition of the institutions and laws of Lycurgus, and an adoption of those of the Achaeans.
The contrary is sufficiently displayed in the vicissitudes and fate of the republic. Whilst the Amphictyonic confederacy remained, that of the Achaeans, which comprehended the less important cities only, made little figure on the theatre of Greece.
When the former became a victim to Macedon, the latter was spared by the policy of Philip and Alexander.
Under the successors of these princes, however, a different policy prevailed.
The arts of division were practiced among the Achaeans.
Each city was seduced into a separate interest; the union was dissolved.
Some of the cities fell under the tyranny of Macedonian garrisons; others under that of usurpers springing out of their own confusions.
Shame and oppression erelong awaken their love of liberty.
A few cities reunited. Their example was followed by others, as opportunities were found of cutting off their tyrants.
The league soon embraced almost the whole Peloponnesus.
Macedon saw its progress; but was hindered by internal dissensions from stopping it.
All Greece caught the enthusiasm and seemed ready to unite in one confederacy, when the jealousy and envy in Sparta and Athens, of the rising glory of the Achaeans, threw a fatal damp on the enterprise.
The dread of the Macedonian power induced the league to court the alliance of the Kings of Egypt and Syria, who, as successors of Alexander, were rivals of the king of Macedon.
The contests of the Greeks always afforded a pleasing opportunity to that powerful neighbor of intermeddling in their affairs.
A Macedonian army quickly appeared. Cleomenes was vanquished.
The Achaeans soon experienced, as often happens, that a victorious and powerful ally is but another name for a master.
All that their most abject compliances could obtain from him was a toleration of the exercise of their laws.
Philip, who was now on the throne of Macedon, soon provoked by his tyrannies, fresh combinations among the Greeks.
The Achaeans, though weakened by internal dissensions and by the revolt of Messene, one of its members, being joined by the AEtolians and Athenians, erected the standard of opposition.
Finding themselves, though thus supported, unequal to the undertaking, they once more had recourse to the dangerous expedient of introducing the succor of foreign arms.
The Romans, to whom the invitation was made, eagerly embraced it.
Philip was conquered; Macedon subdued.
A new crisis ensued to the league.
Dissensions broke out among it members.
Callicrates and other popular leaders became mercenary instruments for inveigling their countrymen. The more effectually to nourish discord and disorder the Romans had, to the astonishment of those who confided in their sincerity, already proclaimed universal liberty[1] throughout Greece.
With the same insidious views, they now seduced the members from the league, by representing to their pride the violation it committed on their sovereignty.
There are existing institutions, founded on a similar principle, which merit particular consideration.
The first which presents itself is the Germanic body. In the early ages of Christianity, Germany was occupied by seven distinct nations, who had no common chief.
The Franks, one of the number, having conquered the Gauls, established the kingdom which has taken its name from them.
In the ninth century Charlemagne, its warlike monarch, carried his victorious arms in every direction; and Germany became a part of his vast dominions.
On the dismemberment, which took place under his sons, this part was erected into a separate and independent empire.
Charlemagne and his immediate descendants possessed the reality, as well as the ensigns and dignity of imperial power.
But the principal vassals, whose fiefs had become hereditary, and who composed the national diets which Charlemagne had not abolished, gradually threw off the yoke and advanced to sovereign jurisdiction and independence.
The force of imperial sovereignty was insufficient to restrain such powerful dependants; or to preserve the unity and tranquillity of the empire.
The most furious private wars, accompanied with every species of calamity, were carried on between the different princes and states.
And the ban is denounced against such as shall violate any of these restrictions.
The members of the diet, as such, are subject in all cases to be judged by the emperor and diet, and in their private capacities by the aulic council and imperial chamber. The prerogatives of the emperor are numerous.
In certain cases, the electors form a council to him.
In quality of emperor, he possesses no territory within the empire, nor receives any revenue for his support.
Nothing would be further from the reality.
In one of the conflicts, the emperor himself was put to flight, and very near being made prisoner by the elector of Saxony.
The late king of Prussia was more than once pitted against his imperial sovereign; and commonly proved an overmatch for him.
Controversies and wars among the members themselves have been so common, that the German annals are crowded with the bloody pages which describe them.
Previous to the peace of Westphalia, Germany was desolated by a war of thirty years, in which the emperor, with one half of the empire, was on one side, and Sweden, with the other half, on the opposite side.
This experiment has only served to demonstrate more fully the radical vice of the constitution.
Each circle is the miniature picture of the deformities of this political monster.
They either fail to execute their commissions, or they do it with all the devastation and carnage of civil war.
Sometimes whole circles are defaulters; and then they increase the mischief which they were instituted to remedy. We may form some judgment of this scheme of military coercion from a sample given by Thuanus.
In Donawerth, a free and imperial city of the circle of Suabia, the Abb 300 de St. Croix enjoyed certain immunities which had been reserved to him.
In the exercise of these, on some public occasions, outrages were committed on him by the people of the city.
The consequence was that the city was put under the ban of the empire, and the Duke of Bavaria, though director of another circle, obtained an appointment to enforce it.
Nor is it to be imagined, if this obstacle could be surmounted, that the neighboring powers would suffer a revolution to take place which would give to the empire the force and preeminence to which it is entitled.
Nor could any proof more striking be given of the calamities flowing from such institutions.
The provision is, that the parties at variance shall each choose four judges out of the neutral cantons, who, in case of disagreement, choose an umpire.
This tribunal, under an oath of impartiality, pronounces definitive sentence, which all the cantons are bound to enforce.
Whatever efficacy the union may have had in ordinary cases, it appears that the moment a cause of difference sprang up, capable of trying its strength, it failed.
The controversies on the subject of religion, which in three instances have kindled violent and bloody contests, may be said, in fact, to have severed the league.
In all these cases, however, unanimity and the sanction of their constituents are requisite.
A council of state, a chamber of accounts, with five colleges of admiralty, aid and fortify the federal administration. The executive magistrate of the union is the stadtholder, who is now an hereditary prince.
The standing army which he commands consists of about forty thousand men. Such is the nature of the celebrated Belgic confederacy, as delineated on parchment.
What are the characters which practice has stamped upon it?
The danger of delay obliges the consenting provinces to furnish their quotas, without waiting for the others; and then to obtain reimbursement from the others, by deputations, which are frequent, or otherwise, as they can.
In 1726, the treaty of Hanover was delayed by these means a whole year.
Instances of a like nature are numerous and notorious. In critical emergencies, the States-General are often compelled to overleap their constitutional bounds.
In 1688, they concluded a treaty of themselves at the risk of their heads.
The treaty of Westphalia, in 1648, by which their independence was formerly and finally recognized, was concluded without the consent of Zealand.
Even as recently as the last treaty of peace with Great Britain, the constitutional principle of unanimity was departed from.
A weak constitution must necessarily terminate in dissolution, for want of proper powers, or the usurpation of powers requisite for the public safety.
Under such a government," says the Abbe Mably, "the Union could never have subsisted, if the provinces had not a spring within themselves, capable of quickening their tardiness, and compelling them to the same way of thinking.
This spring is the stadtholder.
As many times has their laudable zeal found it impossible to UNITE THE PUBLIC COUNCILS in reforming the known, the acknowledged, the fatal evils of the existing constitution.
This also had its adversaries and failed. This unhappy people seem to be now suffering from popular convulsions, from dissensions among the states, and from the actual invasion of foreign arms, the crisis of their destiny.
All nations have their eyes fixed on the awful spectacle.
The United States, as now composed, have no powers to exact obedience, or punish disobedience to their resolutions, either by pecuniary mulcts, by a suspension or divestiture of privileges, or by any other constitutional mode.
Usurpation may rear its crest in each State, and trample upon the liberties of the people, while the national government could legally do nothing more than behold its encroachments with indignation and regret.
A successful faction may erect a tyranny on the ruins of order and law, while no succor could constitutionally be afforded by the Union to the friends and supporters of the government.
The tempestuous situation from which Massachusetts has scarcely emerged, evinces that dangers of this kind are not merely speculative.
Who can determine what might have been the issue of her late convulsions, if the malcontents had been headed by a Caesar or by a Cromwell?
A scruple of this kind would deprive us of one of the principal advantages to be expected from union, and can only flow from a misapprehension of the nature of the provision itself.
It could be no impediment to reforms of the State constitution by a majority of the people in a legal and peaceable mode.
This right would remain undiminished.
The guaranty could only operate against changes to be effected by violence.
Towards the preventions of calamities of this kind, too many checks cannot be provided.
The peace of society and the stability of government depend absolutely on the efficacy of the precautions adopted on this head.
Where the whole power of the government is in the hands of the people, there is the less pretense for the use of violent remedies in partial or occasional distempers of the State.
The natural cure for an ill-administration, in a popular or representative constitution, is a change of men.
Its repugnancy to an adequate supply of the national exigencies has been already pointed out, and has sufficiently appeared from the trial which has been made of it.
I speak of it now solely with a view to equality among the States.
Those who have been accustomed to contemplate the circumstances which produce and constitute national wealth, must be satisfied that there is no common standard or barometer by which the degrees of it can be ascertained.
Neither the value of lands, nor the numbers of the people, which have been successively proposed as the rule of State contributions, has any pretension to being a just representative.
If the like parallel were to be run between several of the American States, it would furnish a like result.
The position may be equally illustrated by a similar process between the counties of the same State.
This, however, is an evil inseparable from the principle of quotas and requisitions. There is no method of steering clear of this inconvenience, but by authorizing the national government to raise its own revenues in its own way.
Imposts, excises, and, in general, all duties upon articles of consumption, may be compared to a fluid, which will, in time, find its level with the means of paying them.
The amount to be contributed by each citizen will in a degree be at his own option, and can be regulated by an attention to his resources.
The rich may be extravagant, the poor can be frugal; and private oppression may always be avoided by a judicious selection of objects proper for such impositions.
If inequalities should arise in some States from duties on particular objects, these will, in all probability, be counterbalanced by proportional inequalities in other States, from the duties on other objects.
In the course of time and things, an equilibrium, as far as it is attainable in so complicated a subject, will be established everywhere.
They prescribe their own limit; which cannot be exceeded without defeating the end proposed, that is, an extension of the revenue.
Those of the direct kind, which principally relate to land and buildings, may admit of a rule of apportionment.
Either the value of land, or the number of the people, may serve as a standard.
The state of agriculture and the populousness of a country have been considered as nearly connected with each other. And, as a rule, for the purpose intended, numbers, in the view of simplicity and certainty, are entitled to a preference.
In every country it is a herculean task to obtain a valuation of the land; in a country imperfectly settled and progressive in improvement, the difficulties are increased almost to impracticability.
The expense of an accurate valuation is, in all situations, a formidable objection.
The utility of such a power has been anticipated under the first head of our inquiries; and for this reason, as well as from the universal conviction entertained upon the subject, little need be added in this place.
This practice in the course of the late war, was found replete with obstructions to a vigorous and to an economical system of defense.
It gave birth to a competition between the States which created a kind of auction for men.
In order to furnish the quotas required of them, they outbid each other till bounties grew to an enormous and insupportable size.
The hope of a still further increase afforded an inducement to those who were disposed to serve to procrastinate their enlistment, and disinclined them from engaging for any considerable periods.
We shall not, however, see much reason to reget the want of this hope, when we consider how little prospect there is, that the most delinquent States will ever be able to make compensation for their pecuniary failures.
Its operation contradicts the fundamental maxim of republican government, which requires that the sense of the majority should prevail.
Sophistry may reply, that sovereigns are equal, and that a majority of the votes of the States will be a majority of confederated America.
But this kind of logical legerdemain will never counteract the plain suggestions of justice and common-sense.
The larger States would after a while revolt from the idea of receiving the law from the smaller.
To acquiesce in such a privation of their due importance in the political scale, would be not merely to be insensible to the love of power, but even to sacrifice the desire of equality.
Congress, from the nonattendance of a few States, have been frequently in the situation of a Polish diet, where a single VOTE has been sufficient to put a stop to all their movements.
A sixtieth part of the Union, which is about the proportion of Delaware and Rhode Island, has several times been able to oppose an entire bar to its operations.
This is one of those refinements which, in practice, has an effect the reverse of what is expected from it in theory.
The necessity of unanimity in public bodies, or of something approaching towards it, has been founded upon a supposition that it would contribute to security.
It is often, by the impracticability of obtaining the concurrence of the necessary number of votes, kept in a state of inaction.
Suppose the necessity of our situation demanded peace, and the interest or ambition of our ally led him to seek the prosecution of the war, with views that might justify us in making separate terms.
In the first case, he would have to corrupt a smaller number; in the last, a greater number.
Upon the same principle, it would be much easier for a foreign power with which we were at war to perplex our councils and embarrass our exertions.
And, in a commercial view, we may be subjected to similar inconveniences.
One of the weak sides of republics, among their numerous advantages, is that they afford too easy an inlet to foreign corruption.
Hence it is that history furnishes us with so many mortifying examples of the prevalency of foreign corruption in republican governments.
How much this contributed to the ruin of the ancient commonwealths has been already delineated.
It is well known that the deputies of the United Provinces have, in various instances, been purchased by the emissaries of the neighboring kingdoms.
The Earl of Chesterfield (if my memory serves me right), in a letter to his court, intimates that his success in an important negotiation must depend on his obtaining a major's commission for one of those deputies.
Laws are a dead letter without courts to expound and define their true meaning and operation.
The treaties of the United States, to have any force at all, must be considered as part of the law of the land.
Their true import, as far as respects individuals, must, like all other laws, be ascertained by judicial determinations.
To produce uniformity in these determinations, they ought to be submitted, in the last resort, to one SUPREME TRIBUNAL.
And this tribunal ought to be instituted under the same authority which forms the treaties themselves.
These ingredients are both indispensable.
If there is in each State a court of final jurisdiction, there may be as many different final determinations on the same point as there are courts.
There are endless diversities in the opinions of men.
We often see not only different courts but the judges of the came court differing from each other.
The treaties of the United States, under the present Constitution, are liable to the infractions of thirteen different legislatures, and as many different courts of final jurisdiction, acting under the authority of those legislatures.
The faith, the reputation, the peace of the whole Union, are thus continually at the mercy of the prejudices, the passions, and the interests of every member of which it is composed.
Is it possible that foreign nations can either respect or confide in such a government?
Owing its ratification to the law of a State, it has been contended that the same authority might repeal the law by which it was ratified.
The fabric of American empire ought to rest on the solid basis of THE CONSENT OF THE PEOPLE.
These powers ought to exist without limitation, BECAUSE IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO FORESEE OR DEFINE THE EXTENT AND VARIETY OF NATIONAL EXIGENCIES, OR THE CORRESPONDENT EXTENT AND VARIETY OF THE MEANS WHICH MAY BE NECESSARY TO SATISFY THEM.
The circumstances that endanger the safety of nations are infinite, and for this reason no constitutional shackles can wisely be imposed on the power to which the care of it is committed.
Shall the Union be constituted the guardian of the common safety?
Are fleets and armies and revenues necessary to this purpose?
The government of the Union must be empowered to pass all laws, and to make all regulations which have relation to them.
The same must be the case in respect to commerce, and to every other matter to which its jurisdiction is permitted to extend.
Is the administration of justice between the citizens of the same State the proper department of the local governments?
These must possess all the authorities which are connected with this object, and with every other that may be allotted to their particular cognizance and direction.
Is there not a manifest inconsistency in devolving upon the federal government the care of the general defense, and leaving in the State governments the EFFECTIVE powers by which it is to be provided for?
Is not a want of co-operation the infallible consequence of such a system?
And will not weakness, disorder, an undue distribution of the burdens and calamities of war, an unnecessary and intolerable increase of expense, be its natural and inevitable concomitants?
It will indeed deserve the most vigilant and careful attention of the people, to see that it be modeled in such a manner as to admit of its being safely vested with the requisite powers.
If any plan which has been, or may be, offered to our consideration, should not, upon a dispassionate inspection, be found to answer this description, it ought to be rejected.
This is the true result of all just reasoning upon the subject.
And the adversaries of the plan promulgated by the convention ought to have confined themselves to showing, that the internal structure of the proposed government was such as to render it unworthy of the confidence of the people.
They ought not to have wandered into inflammatory declamations and unmeaning cavils about the extent of the powers.
The POWERS are not too extensive for the OBJECTS of federal administration, or, in other words, for the management of our NATIONAL INTERESTS; nor can any satisfactory argument be framed to show that they are chargeable with such an excess.
For the absurdity must continually stare us in the face of confiding to a government the direction of the most essential national interests, without daring to trust it to the authorities which are indispensible to their proper and efficient management.
Let us not attempt to reconcile contradictions, but firmly embrace a rational alternative. I trust, however, that the impracticability of one general system cannot be shown.
He would naturally say to himself, it is impossible that all this vehement and pathetic declamation can be without some colorable pretext.
It would probably occur to him, that he would be likely to find the precautions he was in search of in the primitive compact between the States.
Here, at length, he would expect to meet with a solution of the enigma.
On one side of us, and stretching far into our rear, are growing settlements subject to the dominion of Britain.
On the other side, and extending to meet the British settlements, are colonies and establishments subject to the dominion of Spain.
This situation and the vicinity of the West India Islands, belonging to these two powers create between them, in respect to their American possessions and in relation to us, a common interest.
The savage tribes on our Western frontier ought to be regarded as our natural enemies, their natural allies, because they have most to fear from us, and most to hope from them.
The improvements in the art of navigation have, as to the facility of communication, rendered distant nations, in a great measure, neighbors.
Britain and Spain are among the principal maritime powers of Europe.
A future concert of views between these nations ought not to be regarded as improbable.
The increasing remoteness of consanguinity is every day diminishing the force of the family compact between France and Spain.
And politicians have ever with great reason considered the ties of blood as feeble and precarious links of political connection.
The first is impracticable; and if practicable, would be pernicious.
The militia would not long, if at all, submit to be dragged from their occupations and families to perform that most disagreeable duty in times of profound peace.
It would be as burdensome and injurious to the public as ruinous to private citizens.
The latter resource of permanent corps in the pay of the government amounts to a standing army in time of peace; a small one, indeed, but not the less real for being small.
There are, and will be, particular posts, the possession of which will include the command of large districts of territory, and facilitate future invasions of the remainder.
It may be added that some of those posts will be keys to the trade with the Indian nations.
Can any man think it would be wise to leave such posts in a situation to be at any instant seized by one or the other of two neighboring and formidable powers?
New York has no bills of rights, and her constitution says not a word about the matter.
No bills of rights appear annexed to the constitutions of the other States, except the foregoing, and their constitutions are equally silent.
The danger, though in different degrees, is therefore common.
And the means of guarding against it ought, in like manner, to be the objects of common councils and of a common treasury. It happens that some States, from local situation, are more directly exposed.
New York is of this class.
Upon the plan of separate provisions, New York would have to sustain the whole weight of the establishments requisite to her immediate safety, and to the mediate or ultimate protection of her neighbors.
This would neither be equitable as it respected New York nor safe as it respected the other States. Various inconveniences would attend such a system.
The States, to whose lot it might fall to support the necessary establishments, would be as little able as willing, for a considerable time to come, to bear the burden of competent provisions.
The security of all would thus be subjected to the parsimony, improvidence, or inability of a part.
They would each choose to have some counterpoise, and pretenses could easily be contrived.
If it be confined to the latter it will have no precise signification, and it will be ineffectual for the purpose intended.
When armies are once raised what shall be denominated "keeping them up," contrary to the sense of the Constitution?
What time shall be requisite to ascertain the violation? Shall it be a week, a month, a year?
Or shall we say they may be continued as long as the danger which occasioned their being raised continues?
Who shall judge of the continuance of the danger?
Should this at any time happen, how easy would it be to fabricate pretenses of approaching danger!
Indian hostilities, instigated by Spain or Britain, would always be at hand.
Provocations to produce the desired appearances might even be given to some foreign power, and appeased again by timely concessions.
We must receive the blow, before we could even prepare to return it.
This doctrine, in substance, had like to have lost us our independence.
It cost millions to the United States that might have been saved.
The facts which, from our own experience, forbid a reliance of this kind, are too recent to permit us to be the dupes of such a suggestion.
The steady operations of war against a regular and disciplined army can only be successfully conducted by a force of the same kind.
Considerations of economy, not less than of stability and vigor, confirm this position.
War, like most other things, is a science to be acquired and perfected by diligence, by perserverance, by time, and by practice. All violent policy, as it is contrary to the natural and experienced course of human affairs, defeats itself.
Pennsylvania, at this instant, affords an example of the truth of this remark.
The Bill of Rights of that State declares that standing armies are dangerous to liberty, and ought not to be kept up in time of peace.
The conduct of Massachusetts affords a lesson on the same subject, though on different ground.
The Peloponnesian confederates, having suffered a severe defeat at sea from the Athenians, demanded Lysander, who had before served with success in that capacity, to command the combined fleets.
The Lacedaemonians, to gratify their allies, and yet preserve the semblance of an adherence to their ancient institutions, had recourse to the flimsy subterfuge of investing Lysander with the real power of admiral, under the nominal title of vice-admiral.
As if the tone of government had been found too high, or too rigid, the doctrines they teach are calculated to induce us to depress or to relax it, by expedients which, upon other occasions, have been condemned or forborne.
But a danger of this kind is not to be apprehended.
The citizens of America have too much discernment to be argued into anarchy.
Inroads were gradually made upon the prerogative, in favor of liberty, first by the barons, and afterwards by the people, till the greatest part of its most formidable pretensions became extinct.
But it was not till the revolution in 1688, which elevated the Prince of Orange to the throne of Great Britain, that English liberty was completely triumphant.
As incident to the undefined power of making war, an acknowledged prerogative of the crown, Charles II. had, by his own authority, kept on foot in time of peace a body of 5,000 regular troops.
And this number James II. increased to 30,000; who were paid out of his civil list.
The patriots, who effected that memorable revolution, were too temperate, too wellinformed, to think of any restraint on the legislative discretion.
The principles which had taught us to be jealous of the power of an hereditary monarch were by an injudicious excess extended to the representatives of the people in their popular assemblies.
Even in some of the States, where this error was not adopted, we find unnecessary declarations that standing armies ought not to be kept up, in time of peace, WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF THE LEGISLATURE.
I call them unnecessary, because the reason which had introduced a similar provision into the English Bill of Rights is not applicable to any of the State constitutions.
It is not said, that standing armies SHALL NOT BE kept up, but that they OUGHT NOT to be kept up, in time of peace.
They are not AT LIBERTY to vest in the executive department permanent funds for the support of an army, if they were even incautious enough to be willing to repose in it so improper a confidence.
As the spirit of party, in different degrees, must be expected to infect all political bodies, there will be, no doubt, persons in the national legislature willing enough to arraign the measures and criminate the views of the majority.
The provision for the support of a military force will always be a favorable topic for declamation.
An army, so large as seriously to menace those liberties, could only be formed by progressive augmentations; which would suppose, not merely a temporary combination between the legislature and executive, but a continued conspiracy for a series of time.
Is it probable that such a combination would exist at all?
Is it probable that it would be persevered in, and transmitted along through all the successive variations in a representative body, which biennial elections would naturally produce in both houses?
Is it presumable, that every man, the instant he took his seat in the national Senate or House of Representatives, would commence a traitor to his constituents and to his country?
Can it be supposed that there would not be found one man, discerning enough to detect so atrocious a conspiracy, or bold or honest enough to apprise his constituents of their danger?
If such presumptions can fairly be made, there ought at once to be an end of all delegated authority.
It would be announced, by the very circumstance of augmenting the army to so great an extent in time of profound peace.
What colorable reason could be assigned, in a country so situated, for such vast augmentations of the military force?
But the question again recurs, upon what pretense could he be put in possession of a force of that magnitude in time of peace?
This, however, like most other things that have been alleged on that side, rests on mere general assertion, unsupported by any precise or intelligible designation of the reasons upon which it is founded.
Waiving any exception that might be taken to the inaccuracy or inexplicitness of the distinction between internal and external, let us inquire what ground there is to presuppose that disinclination in the people.
I believe it may be laid down as a general rule that their confidence in and obedience to a government will commonly be proportioned to the goodness or badness of its administration.
It must be admitted that there are exceptions to this rule; but these exceptions depend so entirely on accidental causes, that they cannot be considered as having any relation to the intrinsic merits or demerits of a constitution.
Several additional reasons of considerable force, to fortify that probability, will occur when we come to survey, with a more critical eye, the interior structure of the edifice which we are invited to erect.
Man is very much a creature of habit. A thing that rarely strikes his senses will generally have but little influence upon his mind.
A government continually at a distance and out of sight can hardly be expected to interest the sensations of the people.
The means to be employed must be proportioned to the extent of the mischief.
If it should be a slight commotion in a small part of a State, the militia of the residue would be adequate to its suppression; and the national presumption is that they would be ready to do their duty.
An insurrection, whatever may be its immediate cause, eventually endangers all government.
Suppose the State of New York had been inclined to re-establish her lost jurisdiction over the inhabitants of Vermont, could she have hoped for success in such an enterprise from the efforts of the militia alone?
Would she not have been compelled to raise and to maintain a more regular force for the execution of her design?
Who would not prefer that possibility to the unceasing agitations and frequent revolutions which are the continual scourges of petty republics? Let us pursue this examination in another light.
Suppose, in lieu of one general system, two, or three, or even four Confederacies were to be formed, would not the same difficulty oppose itself to the operations of either of these Confederacies?
Would not each of them be exposed to the same casualties; and when these happened, be obliged to have recourse to the same expedients for upholding its authority which are objected to in a government for all the States?
Would the militia, in this supposition, be more ready or more able to support the federal authority than in the case of a general union?
In a single state, if the persons intrusted with supreme power become usurpers, the different parcels, subdivisions, or districts of which it consists, having no distinct government in each, can take no regular measures for defense.
The citizens must rush tumultuously to arms, without concert, without system, without resource; except in their courage and despair.
The usurpers, clothed with the forms of legal authority, can too often crush the opposition in embryo.
The smaller the extent of the territory, the more difficult will it be for the people to form a regular or systematic plan of opposition, and the more easy will it be to defeat their early efforts.
Intelligence can be more speedily obtained of their preparations and movements, and the military force in the possession of the usurpers can be more rapidly directed against the part where the opposition has begun.
But in a confederacy the people, without exaggeration, may be said to be entirely the masters of their own fate.
Power being almost always the rival of power, the general government will at all times stand ready to check the usurpations of the state governments, and these will have the same disposition towards the general government.
The people, by throwing themselves into either scale, will infallibly make it preponderate.
If their rights are invaded by either, they can make use of the other as the instrument of redress.
Projects of usurpation cannot be masked under pretenses so likely to escape the penetration of select bodies of men, as of the people at large.
The legislatures will have better means of information.
They can readily communicate with each other in the different States, and unite their common forces for the protection of their common liberty. The great extent of the country is a further security.
We have already experienced its utility against the attacks of a foreign power.
And it would have precisely the same effect against the enterprises of ambitious rulers in the national councils.
If the federal army should be able to quell the resistance of one State, the distant States would have it in their power to make head with fresh forces.
For a long time to come, it will not be possible to maintain a large army; and as the means of doing this increase, the population and natural strength of the community will proportionably increase.
If a well-regulated militia be the most natural defense of a free country, it ought certainly to be under the regulation and at the disposal of that body which is constituted the guardian of the national security.
If the federal government can command the aid of the militia in those emergencies which call for the military arm in support of the civil magistrate, it can the better dispense with the employment of a different kind of force.
If it cannot avail itself of the former, it will be obliged to recur to the latter.
There is a striking incoherence in the objections which have appeared, and sometimes even from the same quarter, not much calculated to inspire a very favorable opinion of the sincerity or fair dealing of their authors.
The same persons who tell us in one breath, that the powers of the federal government will be despotic and unlimited, inform us in the next, that it has not authority sufficient even to call out the POSSE COMITATUS.
The latter, fortunately, is as much short of the truth as the former exceeds it.
What reason could there be to infer, that force was intended to be the sole instrument of authority, merely because there is a power to make use of it when necessary?
What shall we think of the motives which could induce men of sense to reason in this manner?
How shall we prevent a conflict between charity and judgment? By a curious refinement upon the spirit of republican jealousy, we are even taught to apprehend danger from the militia itself, in the hands of the federal government.
It is observed that select corps may be formed, composed of the young and ardent, who may be rendered subservient to the views of arbitrary power.
What plan for the regulation of the militia may be pursued by the national government, is impossible to be foreseen.
A tolerable expertness in military movements is a business that requires time and practice.
It is not a day, or even a week, that will suffice for the attainment of it.
To attempt a thing which would abridge the mass of labor and industry to so considerable an extent, would be unwise: and the experiment, if made, could not succeed, because it would not long be endured.
The attention of the government ought particularly to be directed to the formation of a select corps of moderate extent, upon such principles as will really fit them for service in case of need.
By thus circumscribing the plan, it will be possible to have an excellent body of well-trained militia, ready to take the field whenever the defense of the State shall require it.
Where in the name of common-sense, are our fears to end if we may not trust our sons, our brothers, our neighbors, our fellow-citizens?
What shadow of danger can there be from men who are daily mingling with the rest of their countrymen and who participate with them in the same feelings, sentiments, habits and interests?
If it were possible seriously to indulge a jealousy of the militia upon any conceivable establishment under the federal government, the circumstance of the officers being in the appointment of the States ought at once to extinguish it.
That of New Hampshire is to be marched to Georgia, of Georgia to New Hampshire, of New York to Kentucky, and of Kentucky to Lake Champlain.
Nay, the debts due to the French and Dutch are to be paid in militiamen instead of louis d'ors and ducats.
Is this the way in which usurpers stride to dominion over a numerous and enlightened nation?
Do they begin by exciting the detestation of the very instruments of their intended usurpations?
Do they usually commence their career by wanton and disgustful acts of power, calculated to answer no end, but to draw upon themselves universal hatred and execration?
Are suppositions of this sort the sober admonitions of discerning patriots to a discerning people?
Or are they the inflammatory ravings of incendiaries or distempered enthusiasts?
This was frequently the case, in respect to the first object, in the course of the late war; and this mutual succor is, indeed, a principal end of our political association.
But these are not the only objects to which the jurisdiction of the Union, in respect to revenue, must necessarily be empowered to extend.
A complete power, therefore, to procure a regular and adequate supply of it, as far as the resources of the community will permit, may be regarded as an indispensable ingredient in every constitution.
In America, from a like cause, the government of the Union has gradually dwindled into a state of decay, approaching nearly to annihilation.
These have no right to question the propriety of the demand; no discretion beyond that of devising the ways and means of furnishing the sums demanded.
What the consequences of this system have been, is within the knowledge of every man the least conversant in our public affairs, and has been amply unfolded in different parts of these inquiries.
What substitute can there be imagined for this ignis fatuus in finance, but that of permitting the national government to raise its own revenues by the ordinary methods of taxation authorized in every well-ordered constitution of civil government?
The former they would reserve to the State governments; the latter, which they explain into commercial imposts, or rather duties on imported articles, they declare themselves willing to concede to the federal head.
Who can pretend that commercial imposts are, or would be, alone equal to the present and future exigencies of the Union?
Its future necessities admit not of calculation or limitation; and upon the principle, more than once adverted to, the power of making provision for them as they arise ought to be equally unconfined.
Those who have carefully attended to its vices and deformities as they have been exhibited by experience or delineated in the course of these papers, must feel invincible repugnancy to trusting the national interests in any degree to its operation.
It ought to be recollected that if less will be required from the States, they will have proportionably less means to answer the demand.
How is it possible that a government half supplied and always necessitous, can fulfill the purposes of its institution, can provide for the security, advance the prosperity, or support the reputation of the commonwealth?
How can it ever possess either energy or stability, dignity or credit, confidence at home or respectability abroad?
How can its administration be any thing else than a succession of expedients temporizing, impotent, disgraceful?
How will it be able to avoid a frequent sacrifice of its engagements to immediate necessity?
How can it undertake or execute any liberal or enlarged plans of public good? Let us attend to what would be the effects of this situation in the very first war in which we should happen to be engaged.
We will presume, for argument's sake, that the revenue arising from the impost duties answers the purposes of a provision for the public debt and of a peace establishment for the Union.
Thus circumstanced, a war breaks out.
What would be the probable conduct of the government in such an emergency?
To imagine that at such a crisis credit might be dispensed with, would be the extreme of infatuation.
In the modern system of war, nations the most wealthy are obliged to have recourse to large loans.
A country so little opulent as ours must feel this necessity in a much stronger degree.
But who would lend to a government that prefaced its overtures for borrowing by an act which demonstrated that no reliance could be placed on the steadiness of its measures for paying?
The loans it might be able to procure would be as limited in their extent as burdensome in their conditions.
Where it produces not this effect, it must proceed either from some defect or disorder in the organs of perception, or from the influence of some strong interest, or passion, or prejudice.
To a certain degree, it is right and useful that this should be the case.
Caution and investigation are a necessary armor against error and imposition.
The obscurity is much oftener in the passions and prejudices of the reasoner than in the subject.
Though these positions have been elsewhere fully stated, they will perhaps not be improperly recapitulated in this place, as introductory to an examination of what may have been offered by way of objection to them.
Revenue is as requisite to the purposes of the local administrations as to those of the Union; and the former are at least of equal importance with the latter to the happiness of the people.
It is, therefore, as necessary that the State governments should be able to command the means of supplying their wants, as that the national government should possess the like faculty in respect to the wants of the Union.
But an indefinite power of taxation in the LATTER might, and probably would in time, deprive the FORMER of the means of providing for their own necessities; and would subject them entirely to the mercy of the national legislature.
It might allege a necessity of doing this in order to give efficacy to the national revenues.
It is only in the latter light that it can be admitted to have any pretensions to fairness.
The moment we launch into conjectures about the usurpations of the federal government, we get into an unfathomable abyss, and fairly put ourselves out of the reach of all reasoning.
Imagination may range at pleasure till it gets bewildered amidst the labyrinths of an enchanted castle, and knows not on which side to turn to extricate itself from the perplexities into which it has so rashly adventured.
In what does our security consist against usurpation from that quarter?
Doubtless in the manner of their formation, and in a due dependence of those who are to administer them upon the people.
What side would be likely to prevail in such a conflict, must depend on the means which the contending parties could employ toward insuring success.
This answers to the first case.
This answers to the second case.
The third will be found in that clause which declares that Congress shall have power "to establish an UNIFORM RULE of naturalization throughout the United States.
I mean the power of imposing taxes on all articles other than exports and imports.
This, I contend, is manifestly a concurrent and coequal authority in the United States and in the individual States.
There is plainly no expression in the granting clause which makes that power EXCLUSIVE in the Union.
There is no independent clause or sentence which prohibits the States from exercising it.
So far is this from being the case, that a plain and conclusive argument to the contrary is to be deduced from the restraint laid upon the States in relation to duties on imports and exports.
This restriction implies an admission that, if it were not inserted, the States would possess the power it excludes; and it implies a further admission, that as to all other taxes, the authority of the States remains undiminished.
If this was the intention, why not leave it, in the first instance, to what is alleged to be the natural operation of the original clause, conferring a general power of taxation upon the Union?
The quantity of the imposition, the expediency or inexpediency of an increase on either side, would be mutually questions of prudence; but there would be involved no direct contradiction of power.
The particular policy of the national and of the State systems of finance might now and then not exactly coincide, and might require reciprocal forbearances.
The tenth section of the first article consists altogether of such provisions.
They are only declaratory of a truth which would have resulted by necessary and unavoidable implication from the very act of constituting a federal government, and vesting it with certain specified powers.
What is the ability to do a thing, but the power of employing the MEANS necessary to its execution?
What is a LEGISLATIVE power, but a power of making LAWS?
What are the MEANS to execute a LEGISLATIVE power but LAWS?
And it is EXPRESSLY to execute these powers that the sweeping clause, as it has been affectedly called, authorizes the national legislature to pass all NECESSARY and PROPER laws.
If there is any thing exceptionable, it must be sought for in the specific powers upon which this general declaration is predicated.
The declaration itself, though it may be chargeable with tautology or redundancy, is at least perfectly harmless. But SUSPICION may ask, Why then was it introduced?
The answer is, that it could only have been done for greater caution, and to guard against all cavilling refinements in those who might hereafter feel a disposition to curtail and evade the legitimate authorities of the Union.
The propriety of a law, in a constitutional light, must always be determined by the nature of the powers upon which it is founded.
But what inference can be drawn from this, or what would they amount to, if they were not to be supreme?
It is evident they would amount to nothing.
A LAW, by the very meaning of the term, includes supremacy.
It is a rule which those to whom it is prescribed are bound to observe.
This results from every political association.
If individuals enter into a state of society, the laws of that society must be the supreme regulator of their conduct.
It would otherwise be a mere treaty, dependent on the good faith of the parties, and not a government, which is only another word for POLITICAL POWER AND SUPREMACY.
It is to be hoped and presumed, however, that mutual interest would dictate a concert in this respect which would avoid any material inconvenience.
But a man would have been regarded as frantic who should have attempted at Rome to disprove their existence. It will be readily understood that I allude to the COMITIA CENTURIATA and the COMITIA TRIBUTA.
The former, in which the people voted by centuries, was so arranged as to give a superiority to the patrician interest; in the latter, in which numbers prevailed, the plebian interest had an entire predominancy.
We shall discover that the former are altogether unlimited, and that the latter are circumscribed within very moderate bounds.
In pursuing this inquiry, we must bear in mind that we are not to confine our view to the present period, but to look forward to remote futurity.
Constitutions of civil government are not to be framed upon a calculation of existing exigencies, but upon a combination of these with the probable exigencies of ages, according to the natural and tried course of human affairs.
Nothing, therefore, can be more fallacious than to infer the extent of any power, proper to be lodged in the national government, from an estimate of its immediate necessities.
There ought to be a CAPACITY to provide for future contingencies as they may happen; and as these are illimitable in their nature, it is impossible safely to limit that capacity.
If, on the contrary, we ought to exceed this point, where can we stop, short of an indefinite power of providing for emergencies as they may arise?
If it should break forth into a storm, who can insure us that in its progress a part of its fury would not be spent upon us?
No reasonable man would hastily pronounce that we are entirely out of its reach.
Let us recollect that peace or war will not always be left to our option; that however moderate or unambitious we may be, we cannot count upon the moderation, or hope to extinguish the ambition of others.
Who could have imagined at the conclusion of the last war that France and Britain, wearied and exhausted as they both were, would so soon have looked with so hostile an aspect upon each other?
What has occasioned that enormous accumulation of debts with which several of the European nations are oppressed?
The answers plainly is, wars and rebellions; the support of those institutions which are necessary to guard the body politic against these two most mortal diseases of society.
It is true that several of the States, separately, are encumbered with considerable debts, which are an excrescence of the late war.
In this view of the subject, by what logic can it be maintained that the local governments ought to command, in perpetuity, an EXCLUSIVE source of revenue for any sum beyond the extent of two hundred thousand pounds?
Any separation of the objects of revenue that could have been fallen upon, would have amounted to a sacrifice of the great INTERESTS of the Union to the POWER of the individual States.
But all extremes are pernicious in various ways.
I am apt to think that a division of the duty, between the seller and the buyer, more often happens than is commonly imagined.
It is not always possible to raise the price of a commodity in exact proportion to every additional imposition laid upon it.
But it is not so generally true as to render it equitable, that those duties should form the only national fund.
When they are paid by the merchant they operate as an additional tax upon the importing State, whose citizens pay their proportion of them in the character of consumers.
They would not, therefore, in this mode alone contribute to the public treasury in a ratio to their abilities.
To make them do this it is necessary that recourse be had to excises, the proper objects of which are particular kinds of manufactures.
New York is more deeply interested in these considerations than such of her citizens as contend for limiting the power of the Union to external taxation may be aware of.
New York is an importing State, and is not likely speedily to be, to any great extent, a manufacturing State.
The first success would be apt to inspire false opinions, which it might require a long course of subsequent experience to correct.
Necessity, especially in politics, often occasions false hopes, false reasonings, and a system of measures correspondingly erroneous.
This argument presents itself under a very specious and seducing form; and is well calculated to lay hold of the prejudices of those to whom it is addressed.
But when we come to dissect it with attention, it will appear to be made up of nothing but fair-sounding words.
The object it seems to aim at is, in the first place, impracticable, and in the sense in which it is contended for, is unnecessary.
Unless it were expressly provided in the Constitution, that each different occupation should send one or more members, the thing would never take place in practice.
Mechanics and manufacturers will always be inclined, with few exceptions, to give their votes to merchants, in preference to persons of their own professions or trades.
Those discerning citizens are well aware that the mechanic and manufacturing arts furnish the materials of mercantile enterprise and industry.
Many of them, indeed, are immediately connected with the operations of commerce.
These considerations, and many others that might be mentioned prove, and experience confirms it, that artisans and manufacturers will commonly be disposed to bestow their votes upon merchants and those whom they recommend.
No tax can be laid on land which will not affect the proprietor of millions of acres as well as the proprietor of a single acre.
Every landholder will therefore have a common interest to keep the taxes on land as low as possible; and common interest may always be reckoned upon as the surest bond of sympathy.
But we have seen that this will never happen under any arrangement that leaves the votes of the people free.
Where this is the case, the representative body, with too few exceptions to have any influence on the spirit of the government, will be composed of landholders, merchants, and men of the learned professions.
But where is the danger that the interests and feelings of the different classes of citizens will not be understood or attended to by these three descriptions of men?
Will not the landholder know and feel whatever will promote or insure the interest of landed property?
And will he not, from his own interest in that species of property, be sufficiently prone to resist every attempt to prejudice or encumber it?
Will not the merchant understand and be disposed to cultivate, as far as may be proper, the interests of the mechanic and manufacturing arts, to which his commerce is so nearly allied?
The man who understands those principles best will be least likely to resort to oppressive expedients, or sacrifice any particular class of citizens to the procurement of revenue.
It might be demonstrated that the most productive system of finance will always be the least burdensome.
And this is all that can be reasonably meant by a knowledge of the interests and feelings of the people.
In any other sense the proposition has either no meaning, or an absurd one.
The supposition of a want of proper knowledge seems to be entirely destitute of foundation.
If any question is depending in a State legislature respecting one of the counties, which demands a knowledge of local details, how is it acquired?
No doubt from the information of the members of the county.
Cannot the like knowledge be obtained in the national legislature from the representatives of each State?
And is it not to be presumed that the men who will generally be sent there will be possessed of the necessary degree of intelligence to be able to communicate that information?
Though the objection be made to both, yet the reasoning upon it seems to be confined to the former branch.
And indeed, as to the latter, by which must be understood duties and excises on articles of consumption, one is at a loss to conceive what can be the nature of the difficulties apprehended.
The knowledge relating to them must evidently be of a kind that will either be suggested by the nature of the article itself, or can easily be procured from any well-informed man, especially of the mercantile class.
The circumstances that may distinguish its situation in one State from its situation in another must be few, simple, and easy to be comprehended.
The principal thing to be attended to, would be to avoid those articles which had been previously appropriated to the use of a particular State; and there could be no difficulty in ascertaining the revenue system of each.
All that the law can do must be to name the persons or to prescribe the manner of their election or appointment, to fix their numbers and qualifications and to draw the general outlines of their powers and duties.
And what is there in all this that cannot as well be performed by the national legislature as by a State legislature?
The national legislature can make use of the SYSTEM OF EACH STATE WITHIN THAT STATE.
An actual census or enumeration of the people must furnish the rule, a circumstance which effectually shuts the door to partiality or oppression.
The abuse of this power of taxation seems to have been provided against with guarded circumspection.
By way of answer to this, it has been triumphantly asked, Why not in the first instance omit that ambiguous power, and rely upon the latter resource?
Two solid answers may be given.
The first is, that the exercise of that power, if convenient, will be preferable, because it will be more effectual; and it is impossible to prove in theory, or otherwise than by the experiment, that it cannot be advantageously exercised.
The contrary, indeed, appears most probable.
The second answer is, that the existence of such a power in the Constitution will have a strong influence in giving efficacy to requisitions.
The laws cannot, therefore, in a legal sense, interfere with each other; and it is far from impossible to avoid an interference even in the policy of their different systems.
An effectual expedient for this purpose will be, mutually, to abstain from those objects which either side may have first had recourse to.
As neither can CONTROL the other, each will have an obvious and sensible interest in this reciprocal forbearance.
And where there is an IMMEDIATE common interest, we may safely count upon its operation.
When the particular debts of the States are done away, and their expenses come to be limited within their natural compass, the possibility almost of interference will vanish.
In other cases, the probability is that the United States will either wholly abstain from the objects preoccupied for local purposes, or will make use of the State officers and State regulations for collecting the additional imposition.
This will best answer the views of revenue, because it will save expense in the collection, and will best avoid any occasion of disgust to the State governments and to the people.
This would serve to turn the tide of State influence into the channels of the national government, instead of making federal influence flow in an opposite and adverse current.
But all suppositions of this kind are invidious, and ought to be banished from the consideration of the great question before the people.
They can answer no other end than to cast a mist over the truth. As to the suggestion of double taxation, the answer is plain.
The wants of the Union are to be supplied in one way or another; if to be done by the authority of the federal government, it will not be to be done by that of the State government.
But does it follow because there is a power to lay them that they will actually be laid?
Every State in the Union has power to impose taxes of this kind; and yet in several of them they are unknown in practice.
Are the State governments to be stigmatized as tyrannies, because they possess this power?
If they are not, with what propriety can the like power justify such a charge against the national government, or even be urged as an obstacle to its adoption?
As little friendly as I am to the species of imposition, I still feel a thorough conviction that the power of having recourse to it ought to exist in the federal government.
There are certain emergencies of nations, in which expedients, that in the ordinary state of things ought to be forborne, become essential to the public weal.
And the government, from the possibility of such emergencies, ought ever to have the option of making use of them.
The real scarcity of objects in this country, which may be considered as productive sources of revenue, is a reason peculiar to itself, for not abridging the discretion of the national councils in this respect.
There may exist certain critical and tempestuous conjunctures of the State, in which a poll tax may become an inestimable resource.
I have passed over in silence those minor authorities, which are either too inconsiderable to have been thought worthy of the hostilities of the opponents of the Constitution, or of too manifest propriety to admit of controversy.
The mass of judiciary power, however, might have claimed an investigation under this head, had it not been for the consideration that its organization and its extent may be more advantageously considered in connection.
In placing, however, these different characters on a level, with respect to the weight of their opinions, I wish not to insinuate that there may not be a material difference in the purity of their intentions.
The predetermined adversary, on the other hand, can have been governed by no venial motive whatever. The intentions of the first may be upright, as they may on the contrary be culpable.
The views of the last cannot be upright, and must be culpable.
But the truth is, that these papers are not addressed to persons falling under either of these characters.
It has been shown in the course of these papers, that the existing Confederation is founded on principles which are fallacious; that we must consequently change this first foundation, and with it the superstructure resting upon it.
Energy in government is essential to that security against external and internal danger, and to that prompt and salutary execution of the laws which enter into the very definition of good government.
Stability in government is essential to national character and to the advantages annexed to it, as well as to that repose and confidence in the minds of the people, which are among the chief blessings of civil society.
On comparing, however, these valuable ingredients with the vital principles of liberty, we must perceive at once the difficulty of mingling them together in their due proportions.
Every man will be sensible of this difficulty, in proportion as he has been accustomed to contemplate and discriminate objects extensive and complicated in their nature.
The faculties of the mind itself have never yet been distinguished and defined, with satisfactory precision, by all the efforts of the most acute and metaphysical philosophers.
Sense, perception, judgment, desire, volition, memory, imagination, are found to be separated by such delicate shades and minute gradations that their boundaries have eluded the most subtle investigations, and remain a pregnant source of ingenious disquisition and controversy.
The boundaries between the great kingdom of nature, and, still more, between the various provinces, and lesser portions, into which they are subdivided, afford another illustration of the same important truth.
The jurisdiction of her several courts, general and local, of law, of equity, of admiralty, etc., is not less a source of frequent and intricate discussions, sufficiently denoting the indeterminate limits by which they are respectively circumscribed.
Besides the obscurity arising from the complexity of objects, and the imperfection of the human faculties, the medium through which the conceptions of men are conveyed to each other adds a fresh embarrassment.
The use of words is to express ideas.
Perspicuity, therefore, requires not only that the ideas should be distinctly formed, but that they should be expressed by words distinctly and exclusively appropriate to them.
And this unavoidable inaccuracy must be greater or less, according to the complexity and novelty of the objects defined.
Any one of these must produce a certain degree of obscurity.
The convention, in delineating the boundary between the federal and State jurisdictions, must have experienced the full effect of them all. To the difficulties already mentioned may be added the interfering pretensions of the larger and smaller States.
We may well suppose that neither side would entirely yield to the other, and consequently that the struggle could be terminated only by compromise.
Other combinations, resulting from a difference of local position and policy, must have created additional difficulties.
The real wonder is that so many difficulties should have been surmounted, and surmounted with a unanimity almost as unprecedented as it must have been unexpected.
It is impossible for any man of candor to reflect on this circumstance without partaking of the astonishment.
Theseus first, and after him Draco and Solon, instituted the government of Athens.
Lycurgus was the lawgiver of Sparta.
The foundation of the original government of Rome was laid by Romulus, and the work completed by two of his elective successors, Numa and Tullius Hostilius.
This remark is applicable to confederate governments also.
Amphictyon, we are told, was the author of that which bore his name.
In some, however, the proceeding was strictly regular. Draco appears to have been intrusted by the people of Athens with indefinite powers to reform its government and laws.
And Solon, according to Plutarch, was in a manner compelled, by the universal suffrage of his fellow-citizens, to take upon him the sole and absolute power of new-modeling the constitution.
These questions cannot be fully answered, without supposing that the fears of discord and disunion among a number of counsellors exceeded the apprehension of treachery or incapacity in a single individual.
History informs us, likewise, of the difficulties with which these celebrated reformers had to contend, as well as the expedients which they were obliged to employ in order to carry their reforms into effect.
Solon, who seems to have indulged a more temporizing policy, confessed that he had not given to his countrymen the government best suited to their happiness, but most tolerable to their prejudices.
This conjecture is rendered probable, not only by many considerations of a general nature, but by the particular case of the Articles of Confederation.
One State, we may remember, persisted for several years in refusing her concurrence, although the enemy remained the whole period at our gates, or rather in the very bowels of our country.
Nor was her pliancy in the end effected by a less motive, than the fear of being chargeable with protracting the public calamities, and endangering the event of the contest.
They are equally unanimous in prescribing the remedy, by which this happy effect is to be produced.
Might not the patient reasonably demand, before he ventured to follow this advice, that the authors of it should at least agree among themselves on some other remedy to be substituted?
She has been sensible of her malady.
She has obtained a regular and unanimous advice from men of her own deliberate choice.
And she is warned by others against following this advice under pain of the most fatal consequences.
Do the monitors deny the reality of her danger?
No. Do they deny the necessity of some speedy and powerful remedy?
No. Are they agreed, are any two of them agreed, in their objections to the remedy proposed, or in the proper one to be substituted?
Let them speak for themselves.
This one tells us that the proposed Constitution ought to be rejected, because it is not a confederation of the States, but a government over individuals.
Another admits that it ought to be a government over individuals to a certain extent, but by no means to the extent proposed.
A third does not object to the government over individuals, or to the extent proposed, but to the want of a bill of rights.
A fourth concurs in the absolute necessity of a bill of rights, but contends that it ought to be declaratory, not of the personal rights of individuals, but of the rights reserved to the States in their political capacity.
A fifth is of opinion that a bill of rights of any sort would be superfluous and misplaced, and that the plan would be unexceptionable but for the fatal power of regulating the times and places of election.
An objector in a large State exclaims loudly against the unreasonable equality of representation in the Senate.
An objector in a small State is equally loud against the dangerous inequality in the House of Representatives.
From this quarter, we are alarmed with the amazing expense, from the number of persons who are to administer the new government.
A patriot in a State that does not import or export, discerns insuperable objections against the power of direct taxation.
The patriotic adversary in a State of great exports and imports, is not less dissatisfied that the whole burden of taxes may be thrown on consumption.
This politician discovers in the Constitution a direct and irresistible tendency to monarchy; that is equally sure it will end in aristocracy.
Whilst this objection circulates in vague and general expressions, there are but a few who lend their sanction to it.
Let each one come forward with his particular explanation, and scarce any two are exactly agreed upon the subject.
In the eyes of one the junction of the Senate with the President in the responsible function of appointing to offices, instead of vesting this executive power in the Executive alone, is the vicious part of the organization.
To another, the exclusion of the House of Representatives, whose numbers alone could be a due security against corruption and partiality in the exercise of such a power, is equally obnoxious.
With another, the admission of the President into any share of a power which ever must be a dangerous engine in the hands of the executive magistrate, is an unpardonable violation of the maxims of republican jealousy.
We concur fully," reply others, "in the objection to this part of the plan, but we can never agree that a reference of impeachments to the judiciary authority would be an amendment of the error.
Our principal dislike to the organization arises from the extensive powers already lodged in that department.
It is not necessary that the former should be perfect; it is sufficient that the latter is more imperfect.
No man would refuse to give brass for silver or gold, because the latter had some alloy in it.
But waiving illustrations of this sort, is it not manifest that most of the capital objections urged against the new system lie with tenfold weight against the existing Confederation?
Is an indefinite power to raise money dangerous in the hands of the federal government?
Is an indefinite power to raise troops dangerous?
The Confederation gives to Congress that power also; and they have already begun to make use of it.
Is it improper and unsafe to intermix the different powers of government in the same body of men?
Congress, a single body of men, are the sole depositary of all the federal powers.
Is it particularly dangerous to give the keys of the treasury, and the command of the army, into the same hands?
The Confederation places them both in the hands of Congress.
Is a bill of rights essential to liberty?
The Confederation has no bill of rights.
Is it an objection against the new Constitution, that it empowers the Senate, with the concurrence of the Executive, to make treaties which are to be the laws of the land?
The existing Congress, without any such control, can make treaties which they themselves have declared, and most of the States have recognized, to be the supreme law of the land.
Is the importation of slaves permitted by the new Constitution for twenty years?
But this is not all. Out of this lifeless mass has already grown an excrescent power, which tends to realize all the dangers that can be apprehended from a defective construction of the supreme government of the Union.
A very large proportion of this fund has been already surrendered by individual States; and it may with reason be expected that the remaining States will not persist in withholding similar proofs of their equity and generosity.
We may calculate, therefore, that a rich and fertile country, of an area equal to the inhabited extent of the United States, will soon become a national stock. Congress have assumed the administration of this stock.
They have begun to render it productive.
Congress have undertaken to do more: they have proceeded to form new States, to erect temporary governments, to appoint officers for them, and to prescribe the conditions on which such States shall be admitted into the Confederacy.
All this has been done; and done without the least color of constitutional authority.
Yet no blame has been whispered; no alarm has been sounded.
A GREAT and INDEPENDENT fund of revenue is passing into the hands of a SINGLE BODY of men, who can RAISE TROOPS to an INDEFINITE NUMBER, and appropriate money to their support for an INDEFINITE PERIOD OF TIME.
I am sensible they could not have done otherwise.
The public interest, the necessity of the case, imposed upon them the task of overleaping their constitutional limits.
But is not the fact an alarming proof of the danger resulting from a government which does not possess regular powers commensurate to its objects?
If the plan of the convention, therefore, be found to depart from the republican character, its advocates must abandon it as no longer defensible. What, then, are the distinctive characters of the republican form?
Were an answer to this question to be sought, not by recurring to principles, but in the application of the term by political writers, to the constitution of different States, no satisfactory one would ever be found.
Holland, in which no particle of the supreme authority is derived from the people, has passed almost universally under the denomination of a republic.
The same title has been bestowed on Venice, where absolute power over the great body of the people is exercised, in the most absolute manner, by a small body of hereditary nobles.
Poland, which is a mixture of aristocracy and of monarchy in their worst forms, has been dignified with the same appellation.
The government of England, which has one republican branch only, combined with an hereditary aristocracy and monarchy, has, with equal impropriety, been frequently placed on the list of republics.
According to the constitution of every State in the Union, some or other of the officers of government are appointed indirectly only by the people.
According to most of them, the chief magistrate himself is so appointed.
The House of Representatives, like that of one branch at least of all the State legislatures, is elected immediately by the great body of the people.
The Senate, like the present Congress, and the Senate of Maryland, derives its appointment indirectly from the people.
The President is indirectly derived from the choice of the people, according to the example in most of the States.
The Senate is elective, for the period of six years; which is but one year more than the period of the Senate of Maryland, and but two more than that of the Senates of New York and Virginia.
The President is to continue in office for the period of four years; as in New York and Delaware, the chief magistrate is elected for three years, and in South Carolina for two years.
In the other States the election is annual.
In several of the States, however, no constitutional provision is made for the impeachment of the chief magistrate.
And in Delaware and Virginia he is not impeachable till out of office.
The President of the United States is impeachable at any time during his continuance in office.
And it is asked by what authority this bold and radical innovation was undertaken?
It is to be the assent and ratification of the several States, derived from the supreme authority in each State, the authority of the people themselves.
It must result from the UNANIMOUS assent of the several States that are parties to it, differing no otherwise from their ordinary assent than in its being expressed, not by the legislative authority, but by that of the people themselves.
Neither of these rules have been adopted. Each State, in ratifying the Constitution, is considered as a sovereign body, independent of all others, and only to be bound by its own voluntary act.
In this relation, then, the new Constitution will, if established, be a FEDERAL, and not a NATIONAL constitution. The next relation is, to the sources from which the ordinary powers of government are to be derived.
The House of Representatives will derive its powers from the people of America; and the people will be represented in the same proportion, and on the same principle, as they are in the legislature of a particular State.
So far the government is NATIONAL, not FEDERAL.
The Senate, on the other hand, will derive its powers from the States, as political and coequal societies; and these will be represented on the principle of equality in the Senate, as they now are in the existing Congress.
So far the government is FEDERAL, not NATIONAL.
The executive power will be derived from a very compound source.
The immediate election of the President is to be made by the States in their political characters.
The votes allotted to them are in a compound ratio, which considers them partly as distinct and coequal societies, partly as unequal members of the same society.
On trying the Constitution by this criterion, it falls under the NATIONAL, not the FEDERAL character; though perhaps not so completely as has been understood.
In several cases, and particularly in the trial of controversies to which States may be parties, they must be viewed and proceeded against in their collective and political capacities only.
So far the national countenance of the government on this side seems to be disfigured by a few federal features.
The idea of a national government involves in it, not only an authority over the individual citizens, but an indefinite supremacy over all persons and things, so far as they are objects of lawful government.
Among a people consolidated into one nation, this supremacy is completely vested in the national legislature.
In the latter, the local or municipal authorities form distinct and independent portions of the supremacy, no more subject, within their respective spheres, to the general authority, than the general authority is subject to them, within its own sphere.
In this relation, then, the proposed government cannot be deemed a NATIONAL one; since its jurisdiction extends to certain enumerated objects only, and leaves to the several States a residuary and inviolable sovereignty over all other objects.
It is true that in controversies relating to the boundary between the two jurisdictions, the tribunal which is ultimately to decide, is to be established under the general government.
But this does not change the principle of the case.
The decision is to be impartially made, according to the rules of the Constitution; and all the usual and most effectual precautions are taken to secure this impartiality.
Were it wholly federal, on the other hand, the concurrence of each State in the Union would be essential to every alteration that would be binding on all.
The mode provided by the plan of the convention is not founded on either of these principles.
In requiring more than a majority, and principles.
The powers of the convention ought, in strictness, to be determined by an inspection of the commissions given to the members by their respective constituents.
As all of these, however, had reference, either to the recommendation from the meeting at Annapolis, in September, 1786, or to that from Congress, in February, 1787, it will be sufficient to recur to these particular acts.
From a comparison and fair construction of these several modes of expression, is to be deduced the authority under which the convention acted.
The one is, that every part of the expression ought, if possible, to be allowed some meaning, and be made to conspire to some common end.
The other is, that where the several parts cannot be made to coincide, the less important should give way to the more important part; the means should be sacrificed to the end, rather than the end to the means.
Which the end; which the means?
Let the most scrupulous expositors of delegated powers; let the most inveterate objectors against those exercised by the convention, answer these questions.
No stress, it is presumed, will, in this case, be laid on the TITLE; a change of that could never be deemed an exercise of ungranted power.
ALTERATIONS in the body of the instrument are expressly authorized.
NEW PROVISIONS therein are also expressly authorized.
Here then is a power to change the title; to insert new articles; to alter old ones.
Must it of necessity be admitted that this power is infringed, so long as a part of the old articles remain?
Will it be said that the alterations ought not to have touched the substance of the Confederation?
The States would never have appointed a convention with so much solemnity, nor described its objects with so much latitude, if some SUBSTANTIAL reform had not been in contemplation.
Will it be said that the FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES of the Confederation were not within the purview of the convention, and ought not to have been varied?
I ask, What are these principles?
Do they require that, in the establishment of the Constitution, the States should be regarded as distinct and independent sovereigns?
They are so regarded by the Constitution proposed.
Do they require that the powers of the government should act on the States, and not immediately on individuals?
In some instances, as has been shown, the powers of the new government will act on the States in their collective characters. In some instances, also, those of the existing government act immediately on individuals.
Do these fundamental principles require, particularly, that no tax should be levied without the intermediate agency of the States?
The Confederation itself authorizes a direct tax, to a certain extent, on the post office.
The power of coinage has been so construed by Congress as to levy a tribute immediately from that source also.
We have seen that in the new government, as in the old, the general powers are limited; and that the States, in all unenumerated cases, are left in the enjoyment of their sovereign and independent jurisdiction.
The truth is, that the great principles of the Constitution proposed by the convention may be considered less as absolutely new, than as the expansion of principles which are found in the articles of Confederation.
In one particular it is admitted that the convention have departed from the tenor of their commission.
Instead of reporting a plan requiring the confirmation OF THE LEGISLATURES OF ALL THE STATES, they have reported a plan which is to be confirmed by the PEOPLE, and may be carried into effect by NINE STATES ONLY.
It is worthy of remark that this objection, though the most plausible, has been the least urged in the publications which have swarmed against the convention.
As this objection, therefore, has been in a manner waived by those who have criticised the powers of the convention, I dismiss it without further observation.
The THIRD point to be inquired into is, how far considerations of duty arising out of the case itself could have supplied any defect of regular authority.
We have seen in what manner they have borne the trial even on that supposition.
This reflection places the subject in a point of view altogether different, and will enable us to judge with propriety of the course taken by the convention.
Let us view the ground on which the convention stood.
It could not be unknown to them that the hopes and expectations of the great body of citizens, throughout this great empire, were turned with the keenest anxiety to the event of their deliberations.
They had every reason to believe that the contrary sentiments agitated the minds and bosoms of every external and internal foe to the liberty and prosperity of the United States.
They had seen in the origin and progress of the experiment, the alacrity with which the PROPOSITION, made by a single State (Virginia), towards a partial amendment of the Confederation, had been attended to and promoted.
If, according to the noble precept, it be lawful to accept good advice even from an enemy, shall we set the ignoble example of refusing such advice even when it is offered by our friends?
The prudent inquiry, in all cases, ought surely to be, not so much FROM WHOM the advice comes, as whether the advice be GOOD.
The FIRST relates to the sum or quantity of power which it vests in the government, including the restraints imposed on the States.
The SECOND, to the particular structure of the government, and the distribution of this power among its several branches.
Under the FIRST view of the subject, two important questions arise: 1.
Whether any part of the powers transferred to the general government be unnecessary or improper?
Whether the entire mass of them be dangerous to the portion of jurisdiction left in the several States?
Is the aggregate power of the general government greater than ought to have been vested in it?
This is the FIRST question.
They have chosen rather to dwell on the inconveniences which must be unavoidably blended with all political advantages; and on the possible abuses which must be incident to every power or trust, of which a beneficial use can be made.
This method of handling the subject cannot impose on the good sense of the people of America.
Security against foreign danger; 2. Regulation of the intercourse with foreign nations; 3.
Maintenance of harmony and proper intercourse among the States; 4.
Certain miscellaneous objects of general utility; 5.
Restraint of the States from certain injurious acts; 6.
Provisions for giving due efficacy to all these powers.
The powers falling within the FIRST class are those of declaring war and granting letters of marque; of providing armies and fleets; of regulating and calling forth the militia; of levying and borrowing money.
Security against foreign danger is one of the primitive objects of civil society.
It is an avowed and essential object of the American Union.
The powers requisite for attaining it must be effectually confided to the federal councils.
Is the power of declaring war necessary?
No man will answer this question in the negative.
It would be superfluous, therefore, to enter into a proof of the affirmative.
The existing Confederation establishes this power in the most ample form.
Is the power of raising armies and equipping fleets necessary?
This is involved in the foregoing power.
It is involved in the power of self-defense.
But was it necessary to give an INDEFINITE POWER of raising TROOPS, as well as providing fleets; and of maintaining both in PEACE, as well as in war?
The answer to these questions has been too far anticipated in another place to admit an extensive discussion of them in this place.
The answer indeed seems to be so obvious and conclusive as scarcely to justify such a discussion in any place.
The means of security can only be regulated by the means and the danger of attack.
They will, in fact, be ever determined by these rules, and by no others.
It is in vain to oppose constitutional barriers to the impulse of self-preservation.
It is worse than in vain; because it plants in the Constitution itself necessary usurpations of power, every precedent of which is a germ of unnecessary and multiplied repetitions.
They were introduced by Charles VII. of France. All Europe has followed, or been forced into, the example.
Had the example not been followed by other nations, all Europe must long ago have worn the chains of a universal monarch.
Were every nation except France now to disband its peace establishments, the same event might follow.
The veteran legions of Rome were an overmatch for the undisciplined valor of all other nations and rendered her the mistress of the world.
A standing force, therefore, is a dangerous, at the same time that it may be a necessary, provision.
On the smallest scale it has its inconveniences. On an extensive scale its consequences may be fatal.
On any scale it is an object of laudable circumspection and precaution.
The clearest marks of this prudence are stamped on the proposed Constitution.
The Union itself, which it cements and secures, destroys every pretext for a military establishment which could be dangerous.
America united, with a handful of troops, or without a single soldier, exhibits a more forbidding posture to foreign ambition than America disunited, with a hundred thousand veterans ready for combat.
It was remarked, on a former occasion, that the want of this pretext had saved the liberties of one nation in Europe.
Being rendered by her insular situation and her maritime resources impregnable to the armies of her neighbors, the rulers of Great Britain have never been able, by real or artificial dangers, to cheat the public into an extensive peace establishment.
The distance of the United States from the powerful nations of the world gives them the same happy security.
A dangerous establishment can never be necessary or plausible, so long as they continue a united people.
But let it never, for a moment, be forgotten that they are indebted for this advantage to the Union alone. The moment of its dissolution will be the date of a new order of things.
The fears of the weaker, or the ambition of the stronger States, or Confederacies, will set the same example in the New, as Charles VII. did in the Old World.
The example will be followed here from the same motives which produced universal imitation there.
Instead of deriving from our situation the precious advantage which Great Britain has derived from hers, the face of America will be but a copy of that of the continent of Europe.
It will present liberty everywhere crushed between standing armies and perpetual taxes.
The fortunes of disunited America will be even more disastrous than those of Europe. The sources of evil in the latter are confined to her own limits.
No superior powers of another quarter of the globe intrigue among her rival nations, inflame their mutual animosities, and render them the instruments of foreign ambition, jealousy, and revenge.
In America the miseries springing from her internal jealousies, contentions, and wars, would form a part only of her lot.
A plentiful addition of evils would have their source in that relation in which Europe stands to this quarter of the earth, and which no other quarter of the earth bears to Europe.
This picture of the consequences of disunion cannot be too highly colored, or too often exhibited.
This precaution the Constitution has prudently added.
I will not repeat here the observations which I flatter myself have placed this subject in a just and satisfactory light.
But it may not be improper to take notice of an argument against this part of the Constitution, which has been drawn from the policy and practice of Great Britain.
It is said that the continuance of an army in that kingdom requires an annual vote of the legislature; whereas the American Constitution has lengthened this critical period to two years.
This is the form in which the comparison is usually stated to the public: but is it a just form?
Is it a fair comparison?
Does the British Constitution restrain the parliamentary discretion to one year?
Does the American impose on the Congress appropriations for two years?
A bad cause seldom fails to betray itself.
Of this truth, the management of the opposition to the federal government is an unvaried exemplification.
But among all the blunders which have been committed, none is more striking than the attempt to enlist on that side the prudent jealousy entertained by the people, of standing armies.
The palpable necessity of the power to provide and maintain a navy has protected that part of the Constitution against a spirit of censure, which has spared few other parts.
It must, indeed, be numbered among the greatest blessings of America, that as her Union will be the only source of her maritime strength, so this will be a principal source of her security against danger from abroad.
In this respect our situation bears another likeness to the insular advantage of Great Britain.
The batteries most capable of repelling foreign enterprises on our safety, are happily such as can never be turned by a perfidious government against our liberties.
If we except perhaps Virginia and Maryland, which are peculiarly vulnerable on their eastern frontiers, no part of the Union ought to feel more anxiety on this subject than New York.
A very important district of the State is an island.
The State itself is penetrated by a large navigable river for more than fifty leagues.
The power of regulating and calling forth the militia has been already sufficiently vindicated and explained.
The power of levying and borrowing money, being the sinew of that which is to be exerted in the national defense, is properly thrown into the same class with it.
This power, also, has been examined already with much attention, and has, I trust, been clearly shown to be necessary, both in the extent and form given to it by the Constitution.
I will address one additional reflection only to those who contend that the power ought to have been restrained to external taxation by which they mean, taxes on articles imported from other countries.
It cannot be doubted that this will always be a valuable source of revenue; that for a considerable time it must be a principal source; that at this moment it is an essential one.
As long as agriculture continues the sole field of labor, the importation of manufactures must increase as the consumers multiply.
As soon as domestic manufactures are begun by the hands not called for by agriculture, the imported manufactures will decrease as the numbers of people increase.
In a more remote stage, the imports may consist in a considerable part of raw materials, which will be wrought into articles for exportation, and will, therefore, require rather the encouragement of bounties, than to be loaded with discouraging duties.
A system of government, meant for duration, ought to contemplate these revolutions, and be able to accommodate itself to them.
Some, who have not denied the necessity of the power of taxation, have grounded a very fierce attack against the Constitution, on the language in which it is defined.
No stronger proof could be given of the distress under which these writers labor for objections, than their stooping to such a misconstruction.
But what color can the objection have, when a specification of the objects alluded to by these general terms immediately follows, and is not even separated by a longer pause than a semicolon?
Nothing is more natural nor common than first to use a general phrase, and then to explain and qualify it by a recital of particulars.
The objection here is the more extraordinary, as it appears that the language used by the convention is a copy from the articles of Confederation.
I appeal to the objectors themselves, whether they would in that case have employed the same reasoning in justification of Congress as they now make use of against the convention.
How difficult it is for error to escape its own condemnation! PUBLIUS. THE FEDERALIST. No. XLII. The Powers Conferred by the Constitution Further Considered From the New York Packet.
This class of powers forms an obvious and essential branch of the federal administration.
If we are to be one nation in any respect, it clearly ought to be in respect to other nations.
The powers to make treaties and to send and receive ambassadors, speak their own propriety.
And under no latitude of construction will the term comprehend consuls.
Yet it has been found expedient, and has been the practice of Congress, to employ the inferior grades of public ministers, and to send and receive consuls.
But the admission of consuls into the United States, where no previous treaty has stipulated it, seems to have been nowhere provided for.
A supply of the omission is one of the lesser instances in which the convention have improved on the model before them.
But the most minute provisions become important when they tend to obviate the necessity or the pretext for gradual and unobserved usurpations of power.
The power to define and punish piracies and felonies committed on the high seas, and offenses against the law of nations, belongs with equal propriety to the general government, and is a still greater improvement on the articles of Confederation.
These articles contain no provision for the case of offenses against the law of nations; and consequently leave it in the power of any indiscreet member to embroil the Confederacy with foreign nations.
The provision of the federal articles on the subject of piracies and felonies extends no further than to the establishment of courts for the trial of these offenses.
But neither the common nor the statute law of that, or of any other nation, ought to be a standard for the proceedings of this, unless previously made its own by legislative adoption.
The meaning of the term, as defined in the codes of the several States, would be as impracticable as the former would be a dishonorable and illegitimate guide.
It is not precisely the same in any two of the States; and varies in each with every revision of its criminal laws.
It were doubtless to be wished, that the power of prohibiting the importation of slaves had not been postponed until the year 1808, or rather that it had been suffered to have immediate operation.
But it is not difficult to account, either for this restriction on the general government, or for the manner in which the whole clause is expressed.
I mention these misconstructions, not with a view to give them an answer, for they deserve none, but as specimens of the manner and spirit in which some have thought fit to conduct their opposition to the proposed government.
The powers included in the THIRD class are those which provide for the harmony and proper intercourse among the States.
The defect of power in the existing Confederacy to regulate the commerce between its several members, is in the number of those which have been clearly pointed out by experience.
To the proofs and remarks which former papers have brought into view on this subject, it may be added that without this supplemental provision, the great and essential power of regulating foreign commerce would have been incomplete and ineffectual.
A very material object of this power was the relief of the States which import and export through other States, from the improper contributions levied on them by the latter.
But the mild voice of reason, pleading the cause of an enlarged and permanent interest, is but too often drowned, before public bodies as well as individuals, by the clamors of an impatient avidity for immediate and immoderate gain.
The necessity of a superintending authority over the reciprocal trade of confederated States, has been illustrated by other examples as well as our own.
In Switzerland, where the Union is so very slight, each canton is obliged to allow to merchandises a passage through its jurisdiction into other cantons, without an augmentation of the tolls.
Among the restraints imposed by the Union of the Netherlands on its members, one is, that they shall not establish imposts disadvantageous to their neighbors, without the general permission.
The regulation of commerce with the Indian tribes is very properly unfettered from two limitations in the articles of Confederation, which render the provision obscure and contradictory.
The power is there restrained to Indians, not members of any of the States, and is not to violate or infringe the legislative right of any State within its own limits.
All that need be remarked on the power to coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coin, is, that by providing for this last case, the Constitution has supplied a material omission in the articles of Confederation.
The authority of the existing Congress is restrained to the regulation of coin STRUCK by their own authority, or that of the respective States.
It must be seen at once that the proposed uniformity in the VALUE of the current coin might be destroyed by subjecting that of foreign coin to the different regulations of the different States.
The punishment of counterfeiting the public securities, as well as the current coin, is submitted of course to that authority which is to secure the value of both.
But were an exposition of the term "inhabitants" to be admitted which would confine the stipulated privileges to citizens alone, the difficulty is diminished only, not removed.
The very improper power would still be retained by each State, of naturalizing aliens in every other State.
In one State, residence for a short term confirms all the rights of citizenship: in another, qualifications of greater importance are required.
By the laws of several States, certain descriptions of aliens, who had rendered themselves obnoxious, were laid under interdicts inconsistent not only with the rights of citizenship but with the privilege of residence.
Whatever the legal consequences might have been, other consequences would probably have resulted, of too serious a nature not to be provided against.
The meaning of the latter is extremely indeterminate, and can be of little importance under any interpretation which it will bear.
A power "to promote the progress of science and useful arts, by securing, for a limited time, to authors and inventors, the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries.
The utility of this power will scarcely be questioned.
The copyright of authors has been solemnly adjudged, in Great Britain, to be a right of common law.
The right to useful inventions seems with equal reason to belong to the inventors. The public good fully coincides in both cases with the claims of individuals.
The States cannot separately make effectual provisions for either of the cases, and most of them have anticipated the decision of this point, by laws passed at the instance of Congress.
The indispensable necessity of complete authority at the seat of government, carries its own evidence with it. It is a power exercised by every legislature of the Union, I might say of the world, by virtue of its general supremacy.
The extent of this federal district is sufficiently circumscribed to satisfy every jealousy of an opposite nature.
The necessity of a like authority over forts, magazines, etc., established by the general government, is not less evident.
The public money expended on such places, and the public property deposited in them, requires that they should be exempt from the authority of the particular State.
Nor would it be proper for the places on which the security of the entire Union may depend, to be in any degree dependent on a particular member of it.
All objections and scruples are here also obviated, by requiring the concurrence of the States concerned, in every such establishment.
To declare the punishment of treason, but no attainder of treason shall work corruption of blood, or forfeiture, except during the life of the person attained.
As treason may be committed against the United States, the authority of the United States ought to be enabled to punish it.
In the articles of Confederation, no provision is found on this important subject.
Canada was to be admitted of right, on her joining in the measures of the United States; and the other COLONIES, by which were evidently meant the other British colonies, at the discretion of nine States.
The eventual establishment of NEW STATES seems to have been overlooked by the compilers of that instrument.
We have seen the inconvenience of this omission, and the assumption of power into which Congress have been led by it.
With great propriety, therefore, has the new system supplied the defect.
The general precaution, that no new States shall be formed, without the concurrence of the federal authority, and that of the States concerned, is consonant to the principles which ought to govern such transactions.
This is a power of very great importance, and required by considerations similar to those which show the propriety of the former.
The proviso annexed is proper in itself, and was probably rendered absolutely necessary by jealousies and questions concerning the Western territory sufficiently known to the public.
To guarantee to every State in the Union a republican form of government; to protect each of them against invasion; and on application of the legislature, or of the executive (when the legislature cannot be convened), against domestic violence.
In a confederacy founded on republican principles, and composed of republican members, the superintending government ought clearly to possess authority to defend the system against aristocratic or monarchial innovations.
But a right implies a remedy; and where else could the remedy be deposited, than where it is deposited by the Constitution?
Governments of dissimilar principles and forms have been found less adapted to a federal coalition of any sort, than those of a kindred nature.
It may possibly be asked, what need there could be of such a precaution, and whether it may not become a pretext for alterations in the State governments, without the concurrence of the States themselves.
These questions admit of ready answers.
If the interposition of the general government should not be needed, the provision for such an event will be a harmless superfluity only in the Constitution.
But who can say what experiments may be produced by the caprice of particular States, by the ambition of enterprising leaders, or by the intrigues and influence of foreign powers?
To the second question it may be answered, that if the general government should interpose by virtue of this constitutional authority, it will be, of course, bound to pursue the authority.
But the authority extends no further than to a GUARANTY of a republican form of government, which supposes a pre-existing government of the form which is to be guaranteed.
As long, therefore, as the existing republican forms are continued by the States, they are guaranteed by the federal Constitution.
Whenever the States may choose to substitute other republican forms, they have a right to do so, and to claim the federal guaranty for the latter.
The latitude of the expression here used seems to secure each State, not only against foreign hostility, but against ambitious or vindictive enterprises of its more powerful neighbors.
The history, both of ancient and modern confederacies, proves that the weaker members of the union ought not to be insensible to the policy of this article.
Protection against domestic violence is added with equal propriety.
A recent and well-known event among ourselves has warned us to be prepared for emergencies of a like nature.
But theoretic reasoning, in this as in most other cases, must be qualified by the lessons of practice.
It will be much better that the violence in such cases should be repressed by the superintending power, than that the majority should be left to maintain their cause by a bloody and obstinate contest.
The existence of a right to interpose, will generally prevent the necessity of exerting it.
Is it true that force and right are necessarily on the same side in republican governments?
May not the minor party possess such a superiority of pecuniary resources, of military talents and experience, or of secret succors from foreign powers, as will render it superior also in an appeal to the sword?
May not a more compact and advantageous position turn the scale on the same side, against a superior number so situated as to be less capable of a prompt and collected exertion of its strength?
To the impartiality of judges, they would unite the affection of friends.
Happy would it be if such a remedy for its infirmities could be enjoyed by all free governments; if a project equally effectual could be established for the universal peace of mankind!
Among the advantages of a confederate republic enumerated by Montesquieu, an important one is, "that should a popular insurrection happen in one of the States, the others are able to quell it.
To consider all debts contracted, and engagements entered into, before the adoption of this Constitution, as being no less valid against the United States, under this Constitution, than under the Confederation.
To provide for amendments to be ratified by three fourths of the States under two exceptions only.
That useful alterations will be suggested by experience, could not but be foreseen.
It was requisite, therefore, that a mode for introducing them should be provided.
The mode preferred by the convention seems to be stamped with every mark of propriety.
It guards equally against that extreme facility, which would render the Constitution too mutable; and that extreme difficulty, which might perpetuate its discovered faults.
It, moreover, equally enables the general and the State governments to originate the amendment of errors, as they may be pointed out by the experience on one side, or on the other.
The other exception must have been admitted on the same considerations which produced the privilege defended by it.
The ratification of the conventions of nine States shall be sufficient for the establishment of this Constitution between the States, ratifying the same.
This article speaks for itself. The express authority of the people alone could give due validity to the Constitution.
To have required the unanimous ratification of the thirteen States, would have subjected the essential interests of the whole to the caprice or corruption of a single member.
It would have marked a want of foresight in the convention, which our own experience would have rendered inexcusable.
Two questions of a very delicate nature present themselves on this occasion: 1.
On what principle the Confederation, which stands in the solemn form of a compact among the States, can be superseded without the unanimous consent of the parties to it?
What relation is to subsist between the nine or more States ratifying the Constitution, and the remaining few who do not become parties to it?
PERHAPS, also, an answer may be found without searching beyond the principles of the compact itself.
It has been heretofore noted among the defects of the Confederation, that in many of the States it had received no higher sanction than a mere legislative ratification.
The principle of reciprocality seems to require that its obligation on the other States should be reduced to the same standard.
A compact between independent sovereigns, founded on ordinary acts of legislative authority, can pretend to no higher validity than a league or treaty between the parties.
The time has been when it was incumbent on us all to veil the ideas which this paragraph exhibits.
The scene is now changed, and with it the part which the same motives dictate.
The second question is not less delicate; and the flattering prospect of its being merely hypothetical forbids an overcurious discussion of it.
It is one of those cases which must be left to provide for itself.
In general, it may be observed, that although no political relation can subsist between the assenting and dissenting States, yet the moral relations will remain uncancelled.
The prohibition against treaties, alliances, and confederations makes a part of the existing articles of Union; and for reasons which need no explanation, is copied into the new Constitution.
The prohibition of letters of marque is another part of the old system, but is somewhat extended in the new.
In this instance, also, the new provision is an improvement on the old.
Whilst the alloy and value depended on the general authority, a right of coinage in the particular States could have no other effect than to multiply expensive mints and diversify the forms and weights of the circulating pieces.
The subjects of foreign powers might suffer from the same cause, and hence the Union be discredited and embroiled by the indiscretion of a single member.
No one of these mischiefs is less incident to a power in the States to emit paper money, than to coin gold or silver.
The two former are expressly prohibited by the declarations prefixed to some of the State constitutions, and all of them are prohibited by the spirit and scope of these fundamental charters.
Our own experience has taught us, nevertheless, that additional fences against these dangers ought not to be omitted.
The sober people of America are weary of the fluctuating policy which has directed the public councils.
They have seen with regret and indignation that sudden changes and legislative interferences, in cases affecting personal rights, become jobs in the hands of enterprising and influential speculators, and snares to the more-industrious and less-informed part of the community.
They have seen, too, that one legislative interference is but the first link of a long chain of repetitions, every subsequent interference being naturally produced by the effects of the preceding.
They very rightly infer, therefore, that some thorough reform is wanting, which will banish speculations on public measures, inspire a general prudence and industry, and give a regular course to the business of society.
The prohibition with respect to titles of nobility is copied from the articles of Confederation and needs no comment.
The restraint on the power of the States over imports and exports is enforced by all the arguments which prove the necessity of submitting the regulation of trade to the federal councils.
The SIXTH and last class consists of the several powers and provisions by which efficacy is given to all the rest.
Few parts of the Constitution have been assailed with more intemperance than this; yet on a fair investigation of it, no part can appear more completely invulnerable.
Without the SUBSTANCE of this power, the whole Constitution would be a dead letter.
Those who object to the article, therefore, as a part of the Constitution, can only mean that the FORM of the provision is improper.
But have they considered whether a better form could have been substituted?
There are four other possible methods which the Constitution might have taken on this subject.
Had the Constitution been silent on this head, there can be no doubt that all the particular powers requisite as means of executing the general powers would have resulted to the government, by unavoidable implication.
There being no such intermediate body between the State legislatures and the people interested in watching the conduct of the former, violations of the State constitutions are more likely to remain unnoticed and unredressed.
The indiscreet zeal of the adversaries to the Constitution has betrayed them into an attack on this part of it also, without which it would have been evidently and radically defective.
To be fully sensible of this, we need only suppose for a moment that the supremacy of the State constitutions had been left complete by a saving clause in their favor.
The Senators and Representatives, and the members of the several State legislatures, and all executive and judicial officers, both of the United States and the several States, shall be bound by oath or affirmation to support this Constitution.
Several reasons might be assigned for the distinction.
I content myself with one, which is obvious and conclusive.
The members of the federal government will have no agency in carrying the State constitutions into effect.
The members and officers of the State governments, on the contrary, will have an essential agency in giving effect to the federal Constitution.
The election of the President and Senate will depend, in all cases, on the legislatures of the several States.
And the election of the House of Representatives will equally depend on the same authority in the first instance; and will, probably, forever be conducted by the officers, and according to the laws, of the States.
We have heard of the impious doctrine in the Old World, that the people were made for kings, not kings for the people.
Is the same doctrine to be revived in the New, in another shape that the solid happiness of the people is to be sacrificed to the views of political institutions of a different form?
Were the plan of the convention adverse to the public happiness, my voice would be, Reject the plan.
Were the Union itself inconsistent with the public happiness, it would be, Abolish the Union.
In like manner, as far as the sovereignty of the States cannot be reconciled to the happiness of the people, the voice of every good citizen must be, Let the former be sacrificed to the latter.
How far the sacrifice is necessary, has been shown.
How far the unsacrificed residue will be endangered, is the question before us.
Several important considerations have been touched in the course of these papers, which discountenance the supposition that the operation of the federal government will by degrees prove fatal to the State governments.
The more I revolve the subject, the more fully I am persuaded that the balance is much more likely to be disturbed by the preponderancy of the last than of the first scale.
In the Achaean league it is probable that the federal head had a degree and species of power, which gave it a considerable likeness to the government framed by the convention.
The Lycian Confederacy, as far as its principles and form are transmitted, must have borne a still greater analogy to it.
Yet history does not inform us that either of them ever degenerated, or tended to degenerate, into one consolidated government.
On the contrary, we know that the ruin of one of them proceeded from the incapacity of the federal authority to prevent the dissensions, and finally the disunion, of the subordinate authorities.
In the feudal system, we have seen a similar propensity exemplified.
The State governments may be regarded as constituent and essential parts of the federal government; whilst the latter is nowise essential to the operation or organization of the former.
Without the intervention of the State legislatures, the President of the United States cannot be elected at all.
They must in all cases have a great share in his appointment, and will, perhaps, in most cases, of themselves determine it.
The Senate will be elected absolutely and exclusively by the State legislatures.
Even the House of Representatives, though drawn immediately from the people, will be chosen very much under the influence of that class of men, whose influence over the people obtains for themselves an election into the State legislatures.
If the federal government is to have collectors of revenue, the State governments will have theirs also.
The powers delegated by the proposed Constitution to the federal government are few and defined.
Those which are to remain in the State governments are numerous and indefinite.
The former will be exercised principally on external objects, as war, peace, negotiation, and foreign commerce; with which last the power of taxation will, for the most part, be connected.
The powers reserved to the several States will extend to all the objects which, in the ordinary course of affairs, concern the lives, liberties, and properties of the people, and the internal order, improvement, and prosperity of the State.
The more adequate, indeed, the federal powers may be rendered to the national defense, the less frequent will be those scenes of danger which might favor their ascendancy over the governments of the particular States.
If the new Constitution be examined with accuracy and candor, it will be found that the change which it proposes consists much less in the addition of NEW POWERS to the Union, than in the invigoration of its ORIGINAL POWERS.
The regulation of commerce, it is true, is a new power; but that seems to be an addition which few oppose, and from which no apprehensions are entertained.
The powers relating to war and peace, armies and fleets, treaties and finance, with the other more considerable powers, are all vested in the existing Congress by the articles of Confederation.
The proposed change does not enlarge these powers; it only substitutes a more effectual mode of administering them.
The federal and State governments are in fact but different agents and trustees of the people, constituted with different powers, and designed for different purposes.
These gentlemen must here be reminded of their error.
From the gift of these a greater number of offices and emoluments will flow.
By the superintending care of these, all the more domestic and personal interests of the people will be regulated and provided for.
With the affairs of these, the people will be more familiarly and minutely conversant.
Experience speaks the same language in this case.
The remaining points on which I propose to compare the federal and State governments, are the disposition and the faculty they may respectively possess, to resist and frustrate the measures of each other.
It has been already proved that the members of the federal will be more dependent on the members of the State governments, than the latter will be on the former.
It has appeared also, that the prepossessions of the people, on whom both will depend, will be more on the side of the State governments, than of the federal government.
A local spirit will infallibly prevail much more in the members of Congress, than a national spirit will prevail in the legislatures of the particular States.
The States will be to the latter what counties and towns are to the former.
Measures will too often be decided according to their probable effect, not on the national prosperity and happiness, but on the prejudices, interests, and pursuits of the governments and people of the individual States.
What is the spirit that has in general characterized the proceedings of Congress?
The motives on the part of the State governments, to augment their prerogatives by defalcations from the federal government, will be overruled by no reciprocal predispositions in the members.
Were it admitted, however, that the Federal government may feel an equal disposition with the State governments to extend its power beyond the due limits, the latter would still have the advantage in the means of defeating such encroachments.
But ambitious encroachments of the federal government, on the authority of the State governments, would not excite the opposition of a single State, or of a few States only.
They would be signals of general alarm.
Every government would espouse the common cause.
A correspondence would be opened.
Plans of resistance would be concerted.
One spirit would animate and conduct the whole.
But what degree of madness could ever drive the federal government to such an extremity.
But what would be the contest in the case we are supposing?
Who would be the parties?
The only refuge left for those who prophesy the downfall of the State governments is the visionary supposition that the federal government may previously accumulate a military force for the projects of ambition.
The reasonings contained in these papers must have been employed to little purpose indeed, if it could be necessary now to disprove the reality of this danger.
This proportion would not yield, in the United States, an army of more than twenty-five or thirty thousand men.
It may well be doubted, whether a militia thus circumstanced could ever be conquered by such a proportion of regular troops.
Notwithstanding the military establishments in the several kingdoms of Europe, which are carried as far as the public resources will bear, the governments are afraid to trust the people with arms.
And it is not certain, that with this aid alone they would not be able to shake off their yokes.
The argument under the present head may be put into a very concise form, which appears altogether conclusive.
Either the mode in which the federal government is to be constructed will render it sufficiently dependent on the people, or it will not.
On the first supposition, it will be restrained by that dependence from forming schemes obnoxious to their constituents.
On the other supposition, it will not possess the confidence of the people, and its schemes of usurpation will be easily defeated by the State governments, who will be supported by the people.
One of the principal objections inculcated by the more respectable adversaries to the Constitution, is its supposed violation of the political maxim, that the legislative, executive, and judiciary departments ought to be separate and distinct.
In the structure of the federal government, no regard, it is said, seems to have been paid to this essential precaution in favor of liberty.
Were the federal Constitution, therefore, really chargeable with the accumulation of power, or with a mixture of powers, having a dangerous tendency to such an accumulation, no further arguments would be necessary to inspire a universal reprobation of the system.
I persuade myself, however, that it will be made apparent to every one, that the charge cannot be supported, and that the maxim on which it relies has been totally misconceived and misapplied.
In order to form correct ideas on this important subject, it will be proper to investigate the sense in which the preservation of liberty requires that the three great departments of power should be separate and distinct.
The oracle who is always consulted and cited on this subject is the celebrated Montesquieu.
If he be not the author of this invaluable precept in the science of politics, he has the merit at least of displaying and recommending it most effectually to the attention of mankind.
Let us endeavor, in the first place, to ascertain his meaning on this point.
The British Constitution was to Montesquieu what Homer has been to the didactic writers on epic poetry.
That we may be sure, then, not to mistake his meaning in this case, let us recur to the source from which the maxim was drawn.
On the slightest view of the British Constitution, we must perceive that the legislative, executive, and judiciary departments are by no means totally separate and distinct from each other.
The executive magistrate forms an integral part of the legislative authority.
The entire legislature, again, can exercise no executive prerogative, though one of its branches constitutes the supreme executive magistracy, and another, on the impeachment of a third, can try and condemn all the subordinate officers in the executive department.
The reasons on which Montesquieu grounds his maxim are a further demonstration of his meaning.
The executive head is himself eventually elective every year by the legislative department, and his council is every year chosen by and from the members of the same department.
Several of the officers of state are also appointed by the legislature.
And the members of the judiciary department are appointed by the executive department.
The constitution of Massachusetts has observed a sufficient though less pointed caution, in expressing this fundamental article of liberty.
It goes no farther than to prohibit any one of the entire departments from exercising the powers of another department.
In the very Constitution to which it is prefixed, a partial mixture of powers has been admitted.
The executive magistrate has a qualified negative on the legislative body, and the Senate, which is a part of the legislature, is a court of impeachment for members both of the executive and judiciary departments.
As the appointment to offices, particularly executive offices, is in its nature an executive function, the compilers of the Constitution have, in this last point at least, violated the rule established by themselves.
I pass over the constitutions of Rhode Island and Connecticut, because they were formed prior to the Revolution, and even before the principle under examination had become an object of political attention.
The constitution of New York contains no declaration on this subject; but appears very clearly to have been framed with an eye to the danger of improperly blending the different departments.
It gives, nevertheless, to the executive magistrate, a partial control over the legislative department; and, what is more, gives a like control to the judiciary department; and even blends the executive and judiciary departments in the exercise of this control.
In its council of appointment members of the legislative are associated with the executive authority, in the appointment of officers, both executive and judiciary.
And its court for the trial of impeachments and correction of errors is to consist of one branch of the legislature and the principal members of the judiciary department.
The constitution of New Jersey has blended the different powers of government more than any of the preceding.
The same legislative branch acts again as executive council of the governor, and with him constitutes the Court of Appeals.
The members of the judiciary department are appointed by the legislative department and removable by one branch of it, on the impeachment of the other.
According to the constitution of Pennsylvania, the president, who is the head of the executive department, is annually elected by a vote in which the legislative department predominates.
In conjunction with an executive council, he appoints the members of the judiciary department, and forms a court of impeachment for trial of all officers, judiciary as well as executive.
In Delaware, the chief executive magistrate is annually elected by the legislative department.
The speakers of the two legislative branches are vice-presidents in the executive department.
The executive chief, with six others, appointed, three by each of the legislative branches constitutes the Supreme Court of Appeals; he is joined with the legislative department in the appointment of the other judges.
The principal officers of the executive department are appointed by the legislative; and one branch of the latter forms a court of impeachments.
All officers may be removed on address of the legislature.
Maryland has adopted the maxim in the most unqualified terms; declaring that the legislative, executive, and judicial powers of government ought to be forever separate and distinct from each other.
Her constitution, notwithstanding, makes the executive magistrate appointable by the legislative department; and the members of the judiciary by the executive department.
The language of Virginia is still more pointed on this subject.
The executive prerogative of pardon, also, is in one case vested in the legislative department.
Even justices of the peace are to be appointed by the legislature.
In citing these cases, in which the legislative, executive, and judiciary departments have not been kept totally separate and distinct, I wish not to be regarded as an advocate for the particular organizations of the several State governments.
This interesting subject will be resumed in the ensuing paper. PUBLIUS. THE FEDERALIST. No. XLVIII. These Departments Should Not Be So Far Separated as to Have No Constitutional Control Over Each Other From the New York Packet.
It is agreed on all sides, that the powers properly belonging to one of the departments ought not to be directly and completely administered by either of the other departments.
It is equally evident, that none of them ought to possess, directly or indirectly, an overruling influence over the others, in the administration of their respective powers.
Will it be sufficient to mark, with precision, the boundaries of these departments, in the constitution of the government, and to trust to these parchment barriers against the encroaching spirit of power?
This is the security which appears to have been principally relied on by the compilers of most of the American constitutions.
But experience assures us, that the efficacy of the provision has been greatly overrated; and that some more adequate defense is indispensably necessary for the more feeble, against the more powerful, members of the government.
The legislative department is everywhere extending the sphere of its activity, and drawing all power into its impetuous vortex.
The founders of our republics have so much merit for the wisdom which they have displayed, that no task can be less pleasing than that of pointing out the errors into which they have fallen.
They seem never to have recollected the danger from legislative usurpations, which, by assembling all power in the same hands, must lead to the same tyranny as is threatened by executive usurpations.
Its constitutional powers being at once more extensive, and less susceptible of precise limits, it can, with the greater facility, mask, under complicated and indirect measures, the encroachments which it makes on the co-ordinate departments.
It is not unfrequently a question of real nicety in legislative bodies, whether the operation of a particular measure will, or will not, extend beyond the legislative sphere.
I have appealed to our own experience for the truth of what I advance on this subject. Were it necessary to verify this experience by particular proofs, they might be multiplied without end.
I might find a witness in every citizen who has shared in, or been attentive to, the course of public administrations.
I might collect vouchers in abundance from the records and archives of every State in the Union.
But as a more concise, and at the same time equally satisfactory, evidence, I will refer to the example of two States, attested by two unexceptionable authorities.
The first example is that of Virginia, a State which, as we have seen, has expressly declared in its constitution, that the three great departments ought not to be intermixed.
The authority in support of it is Mr. Jefferson, who, besides his other advantages for remarking the operation of the government, was himself the chief magistrate of it.
In order to convey fully the ideas with which his experience had impressed him on this subject, it will be necessary to quote a passage of some length from his very interesting "Notes on the State of Virginia," p. 195.
All the powers of government, legislative, executive, and judiciary, result to the legislative body.
The concentrating these in the same hands, is precisely the definition of despotic government.
It will be no alleviation, that these powers will be exercised by a plurality of hands, and not by a single one.
One hundred and seventy-three despots would surely be as oppressive as one.
Let those who doubt it, turn their eyes on the republic of Venice.
As little will it avail us, that they are chosen by ourselves.
The judiciary and the executive members were left dependent on the legislative for their subsistence in office, and some of them for their continuance in it.
They have accordingly, IN MANY instances, DECIDED RIGHTS which should have been left to JUDICIARY CONTROVERSY, and THE DIRECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE, DURING THE WHOLE TIME OF THEIR SESSION, IS BECOMING HABITUAL AND FAMILIAR.
The other State which I shall take for an example is Pennsylvania; and the other authority, the Council of Censors, which assembled in the years 1783 and 1784.
The constitutional trial by jury had been violated, and powers assumed which had not been delegated by the constitution. Executive powers had been usurped.
The salaries of the judges, which the constitution expressly requires to be fixed, had been occasionally varied; and cases belonging to the judiciary department frequently drawn within legislative cognizance and determination.
Those who wish to see the several particulars falling under each of these heads, may consult the journals of the council, which are in print.
Some of them, it will be found, may be imputable to peculiar circumstances connected with the war; but the greater part of them may be considered as the spontaneous shoots of an ill-constituted government.
It appears, also, that the executive department had not been innocent of frequent breaches of the constitution.
In this respect, it has as much affinity to a legislative assembly as to an executive council.
There is certainly great force in this reasoning, and it must be allowed to prove that a constitutional road to the decision of the people ought to be marked out and kept open, for certain great and extraordinary occasions.
But there appear to be insuperable objections against the proposed recurrence to the people, as a provision in all cases for keeping the several departments of power within their constitutional limits.
I do not dwell, however, on this objection, because it may be thought to be rather against the modification of the principle, than against the principle itself.
The reason of man, like man himself, is timid and cautious when left alone, and acquires firmness and confidence in proportion to the number with which it is associated.
When the examples which fortify opinion are ANCIENT as well as NUMEROUS, they are known to have a double effect.
In a nation of philosophers, this consideration ought to be disregarded.
A reverence for the laws would be sufficiently inculcated by the voice of an enlightened reason.
But a nation of philosophers is as little to be expected as the philosophical race of kings wished for by Plato.
And in every other nation, the most rational government will not find it a superfluous advantage to have the prejudices of the community on its side.
The future situations in which we must expect to be usually placed, do not present any equivalent security against the danger which is apprehended.
But the greatest objection of all is, that the decisions which would probably result from such appeals would not answer the purpose of maintaining the constitutional equilibrium of the government.
We have seen that the tendency of republican governments is to an aggrandizement of the legislative at the expense of the other departments.
The appeals to the people, therefore, would usually be made by the executive and judiciary departments.
But whether made by one side or the other, would each side enjoy equal advantages on the trial?
Let us view their different situations.
The members of the executive and judiciary departments are few in number, and can be personally known to a small part only of the people.
The latter, by the mode of their appointment, as well as by the nature and permanency of it, are too far removed from the people to share much in their prepossessions.
The former are generally the objects of jealousy, and their administration is always liable to be discolored and rendered unpopular.
The members of the legislative department, on the other hand, are numberous.
They are distributed and dwell among the people at large.
Their connections of blood, of friendship, and of acquaintance embrace a great proportion of the most influential part of the society.
The nature of their public trust implies a personal influence among the people, and that they are more immediately the confidential guardians of the rights and liberties of the people.
With these advantages, it can hardly be supposed that the adverse party would have an equal chance for a favorable issue.
But the legislative party would not only be able to plead their cause most successfully with the people.
They would probably be constituted themselves the judges. The same influence which had gained them an election into the legislature, would gain them a seat in the convention.
If this should not be the case with all, it would probably be the case with many, and pretty certainly with those leading characters, on whom every thing depends in such bodies.
The convention, in short, would be composed chiefly of men who had been, who actually were, or who expected to be, members of the department whose conduct was arraigned.
They would consequently be parties to the very question to be decided by them.
It might, however, sometimes happen, that appeals would be made under circumstances less adverse to the executive and judiciary departments. The usurpations of the legislature might be so flagrant and so sudden, as to admit of no specious coloring.
A strong party among themselves might take side with the other branches.
The executive power might be in the hands of a peculiar favorite of the people.
In such a posture of things, the public decision might be less swayed by prepossessions in favor of the legislative party.
But still it could never be expected to turn on the true merits of the question.
It would inevitably be connected with the spirit of pre-existing parties, or of parties springing out of the question itself.
It would be connected with persons of distinguished character and extensive influence in the community.
It would be pronounced by the very men who had been agents in, or opponents of, the measures to which the decision would relate. The PASSIONS, therefore, not the REASON, of the public would sit in judgment.
But it is the reason, alone, of the public, that ought to control and regulate the government.
The passions ought to be controlled and regulated by the government. We found in the last paper, that mere declarations in the written constitution are not sufficient to restrain the several departments within their legal rights.
It appears in this, that occasional appeals to the people would be neither a proper nor an effectual provision for that purpose.
How far the provisions of a different nature contained in the plan above quoted might be adequate, I do not examine.
Some of them are unquestionably founded on sound political principles, and all of them are framed with singular ingenuity and precision. PUBLIUS. THE FEDERALIST. No. L. Periodical Appeals to the People Considered From the New York Packet.
In the first place, a distant prospect of public censure would be a very feeble restraint on power from those excesses to which it might be urged by the force of present motives.
In the next place, the abuses would often have completed their mischievous effects before the remedial provision would be applied.
And in the last place, where this might not be the case, they would be of long standing, would have taken deep root, and would not easily be extirpated.
The scheme of revising the constitution, in order to correct recent breaches of it, as well as for other purposes, has been actually tried in one of the States.
In some of them it may, perhaps, as a single experiment, made under circumstances somewhat peculiar, be thought to be not absolutely conclusive.
But as applied to the case under consideration, it involves some facts, which I venture to remark, as a complete and satisfactory illustration of the reasoning which I have employed.
It appears, from the names of the gentlemen who composed the council, that some, at least, of its most active members had also been active and leading characters in the parties which pre-existed in the State. Secondly.
Two of the members had been vice-presidents of the State, and several other members of the executive council, within the seven preceding years.
One of them had been speaker, and a number of others distinguished members, of the legislative assembly within the same period. Thirdly.
Every page of their proceedings witnesses the effect of all these circumstances on the temper of their deliberations.
Throughout the continuance of the council, it was split into two fixed and violent parties.
The fact is acknowledged and lamented by themselves.
Had this not been the case, the face of their proceedings exhibits a proof equally satisfactory.
In all questions, however unimportant in themselves, or unconnected with each other, the same names stand invariably contrasted on the opposite columns.
Every unbiased observer may infer, without danger of mistake, and at the same time without meaning to reflect on either party, or any individuals of either party, that, unfortunately, PASSION, not REASON, must have presided over their decisions.
When men exercise their reason coolly and freely on a variety of distinct questions, they inevitably fall into different opinions on some of them.
When they are governed by a common passion, their opinions, if they are so to be called, will be the same. Fourthly.
It is at least problematical, whether the decisions of this body do not, in several instances, misconstrue the limits prescribed for the legislative and executive departments, instead of reducing and limiting them within their constitutional places. Fifthly.
I have never understood that the decisions of the council on constitutional questions, whether rightly or erroneously formed, have had any effect in varying the practice founded on legislative constructions.
It even appears, if I mistake not, that in one instance the contemporary legislature denied the constructions of the council, and actually prevailed in the contest.
This censorial body, therefore, proves at the same time, by its researches, the existence of the disease, and by its example, the inefficacy of the remedy.
This conclusion cannot be invalidated by alleging that the State in which the experiment was made was at that crisis, and had been for a long time before, violently heated and distracted by the rage of party.
Is it to be presumed, that at any future septennial epoch the same State will be free from parties?
Is it to be presumed that any other State, at the same or any other given period, will be exempt from them?
Such an event ought to be neither presumed nor desired; because an extinction of parties necessarily implies either a universal alarm for the public safety, or an absolute extinction of liberty.
The important task would probably devolve on men, who, with inferior capacities, would in other respects be little better qualified.
Perhaps such a plan of constructing the several departments would be less difficult in practice than it may in contemplation appear.
Some difficulties, however, and some additional expense would attend the execution of it.
Some deviations, therefore, from the principle must be admitted.
It is equally evident, that the members of each department should be as little dependent as possible on those of the others, for the emoluments annexed to their offices.
The provision for defense must in this, as in all other cases, be made commensurate to the danger of attack.
Ambition must be made to counteract ambition. The interest of the man must be connected with the constitutional rights of the place.
It may be a reflection on human nature, that such devices should be necessary to control the abuses of government.
But what is government itself, but the greatest of all reflections on human nature?
If men were angels, no government would be necessary.
If angels were to govern men, neither external nor internal controls on government would be necessary.
In framing a government which is to be administered by men over men, the great difficulty lies in this: you must first enable the government to control the governed; and in the next place oblige it to control itself.
A dependence on the people is, no doubt, the primary control on the government; but experience has taught mankind the necessity of auxiliary precautions.
This policy of supplying, by opposite and rival interests, the defect of better motives, might be traced through the whole system of human affairs, private as well as public.
These inventions of prudence cannot be less requisite in the distribution of the supreme powers of the State.
But it is not possible to give to each department an equal power of self-defense.
In republican government, the legislative authority necessarily predominates.
It may even be necessary to guard against dangerous encroachments by still further precautions.
As the weight of the legislative authority requires that it should be thus divided, the weakness of the executive may require, on the other hand, that it should be fortified.
There are, moreover, two considerations particularly applicable to the federal system of America, which place that system in a very interesting point of view. First.
In a single republic, all the power surrendered by the people is submitted to the administration of a single government; and the usurpations are guarded against by a division of the government into distinct and separate departments.
In the compound republic of America, the power surrendered by the people is first divided between two distinct governments, and then the portion allotted to each subdivided among distinct and separate departments.
Hence a double security arises to the rights of the people.
The different governments will control each other, at the same time that each will be controlled by itself. Second.
It is of great importance in a republic not only to guard the society against the oppression of its rulers, but to guard one part of the society against the injustice of the other part.
Different interests necessarily exist in different classes of citizens.
If a majority be united by a common interest, the rights of the minority will be insecure.
The first method prevails in all governments possessing an hereditary or self-appointed authority.
In a free government the security for civil rights must be the same as that for religious rights.
It consists in the one case in the multiplicity of interests, and in the other in the multiplicity of sects.
The degree of security in both cases will depend on the number of interests and sects; and this may be presumed to depend on the extent of country and number of people comprehended under the same government.
It is the end of civil society.
It ever has been and ever will be pursued until it be obtained, or until liberty be lost in the pursuit.
It is no less certain than it is important, notwithstanding the contrary opinions which have been entertained, that the larger the society, provided it lie within a practical sphere, the more duly capable it will be of self-government.
I shall begin with the House of Representatives.
The first view to be taken of this part of the government relates to the qualifications of the electors and the elected.
It was incumbent on the convention, therefore, to define and establish this right in the Constitution.
To have left it open for the occasional regulation of the Congress, would have been improper for the reason just mentioned.
To have reduced the different qualifications in the different States to one uniform rule, would probably have been as dissatisfactory to some of the States as it would have been difficult to the convention.
The qualifications of the elected, being less carefully and properly defined by the State constitutions, and being at the same time more susceptible of uniformity, have been very properly considered and regulated by the convention.
The term for which the representatives are to be elected falls under a second view which may be taken of this branch.
In order to decide on the propriety of this article, two questions must be considered: first, whether biennial elections will, in this case, be safe; secondly, whether they be necessary or useful.
Frequent elections are unquestionably the only policy by which this dependence and sympathy can be effectually secured.
But what particular degree of frequency may be absolutely necessary for the purpose, does not appear to be susceptible of any precise calculation, and must depend on a variety of circumstances with which it may be connected.
Let us consult experience, the guide that ought always to be followed whenever it can be found.
The scheme of representation, as a substitute for a meeting of the citizens in person, being at most but very imperfectly known to ancient polity, it is in more modern times only that we are to expect instructive examples.
And even here, in order to avoid a research too vague and diffusive, it will be proper to confine ourselves to the few examples which are best known, and which bear the greatest analogy to our particular case.
The first to which this character ought to be applied, is the House of Commons in Great Britain.
The history of this branch of the English Constitution, anterior to the date of Magna Charta, is too obscure to yield instruction.
The very existence of it has been made a question among political antiquaries.
The earliest records of subsequent date prove that parliaments were to SIT only every year; not that they were to be ELECTED every year.
And even these annual sessions were left so much at the discretion of the monarch, that, under various pretexts, very long and dangerous intermissions were often contrived by royal ambition.
To remedy this grievance, it was provided by a statute in the reign of Charles II. , that the intermissions should not be protracted beyond a period of three years.
The last change, from three to seven years, is well known to have been introduced pretty early in the present century, under on alarm for the Hanoverian succession.
From these facts it appears that the greatest frequency of elections which has been deemed necessary in that kingdom, for binding the representatives to their constituents, does not exceed a triennial return of them.
The parliament which commenced with George II. was continued throughout his whole reign, a period of about thirty-five years.
Of late these shackles, if I mistake not, have been broken; and octennial parliaments have besides been established.
What effect may be produced by this partial reform, must be left to further experience.
The example of Ireland, from this view of it, can throw but little light on the subject.
Let us bring our inquiries nearer home.
The example of these States, when British colonies, claims particular attention, at the same time that it is so well known as to require little to be said on it.
The principle of representation, in one branch of the legislature at least, was established in all of them.
But the periods of election were different.
They varied from one to seven years.
Have we any reason to infer, from the spirit and conduct of the representatives of the people, prior to the Revolution, that biennial elections would have been dangerous to the public liberties?
The conclusion resulting from these examples will be not a little strengthened by recollecting three circumstances.
I need not look for a proof beyond the case before us.
What is the reason on which this proverbial observation is founded?
No man will subject himself to the ridicule of pretending that any natural connection subsists between the sun or the seasons, and the period within which human virtue can bear the temptations of power.
In Connecticut and Rhode Island, the periods are half-yearly.
In the other States, South Carolina excepted, they are annual.
In South Carolina they are biennial as is proposed in the federal government.
In searching for the grounds of this doctrine, I can discover but one, and that is wholly inapplicable to our case.
Wherever the supreme power of legislation has resided, has been supposed to reside also a full power to change the form of the government.
They have accordingly, in several instances, actually changed, by legislative acts, some of the most fundamental articles of the government.
Where no Constitution, paramount to the government, either existed or could be obtained, no constitutional security, similar to that established in the United States, was to be attempted.
But what necessity can there be of applying this expedient to a government limited, as the federal government will be, by the authority of a paramount Constitution?
The second question stated is, whether biennial elections be necessary or useful. The propriety of answering this question in the affirmative will appear from several very obvious considerations.
No man can be a competent legislator who does not add to an upright intention and a sound judgment a certain degree of knowledge of the subjects on which he is to legislate.
A part of this knowledge may be acquired by means of information which lie within the compass of men in private as well as public stations.
Another part can only be attained, or at least thoroughly attained, by actual experience in the station which requires the use of it.
The period of service, ought, therefore, in all such cases, to bear some proportion to the extent of practical knowledge requisite to the due performance of the service.
The period of legislative service established in most of the States for the more numerous branch is, as we have seen, one year.
The question then may be put into this simple form: does the period of two years bear no greater proportion to the knowledge requisite for federal legislation than one year does to the knowledge requisite for State legislation?
The very statement of the question, in this form, suggests the answer that ought to be given to it.
The great theatre of the United States presents a very different scene.
Yet some knowledge of the affairs, and even of the laws, of all the States, ought to be possessed by the members from each of the States.
How can foreign trade be properly regulated by uniform laws, without some acquaintance with the commerce, the ports, the usages, and the regulatious of the different States?
How can the trade between the different States be duly regulated, without some knowledge of their relative situations in these and other respects?
How can taxes be judiciously imposed and effectually collected, if they be not accommodated to the different laws and local circumstances relating to these objects in the different States?
How can uniform regulations for the militia be duly provided, without a similar knowledge of many internal circumstances by which the States are distinguished from each other?
These are the principal objects of federal legislation, and suggest most forcibly the extensive information which the representatives ought to acquire.
The other interior objects will require a proportional degree of information with regard to them.
It is true that all these difficulties will, by degrees, be very much diminished.
The most laborious task will be the proper inauguration of the government and the primeval formation of a federal code. Improvements on the first draughts will every year become both easier and fewer.
Past transactions of the government will be a ready and accurate source of information to new members.
The affairs of the Union will become more and more objects of curiosity and conversation among the citizens at large.
And the increased intercourse among those of different States will contribute not a little to diffuse a mutual knowledge of their affairs, as this again will contribute to a general assimilation of their manners and laws.
A branch of knowledge which belongs to the acquirements of a federal representative, and which has not been mentioned is that of foreign affairs.
In regulating our own commerce he ought to be not only acquainted with the treaties between the United States and other nations, but also with the commercial policy and laws of other nations.
No argument can be drawn on this subject, from the case of the delegates to the existing Congress.
They are elected annually, it is true; but their re-election is considered by the legislative assemblies almost as a matter of course.
The election of the representatives by the people would not be governed by the same principle.
The greater the proportion of new members, and the less the information of the bulk of the members the more apt will they be to fall into the snares that may be laid for them.
This remark is no less applicable to the relation which will subsist between the House of Representatives and the Senate.
If a return can be obtained, no matter by what unlawful means, the irregular member, who takes his seat of course, is sure of holding it a sufficient time to answer his purposes.
Hence, a very pernicious encouragement is given to the use of unlawful means, for obtaining irregular returns.
Were elections for the federal legislature to be annual, this practice might become a very serious abuse, particularly in the more distant States.
It is not contended that the number of people in each State ought not to be the standard for regulating the proportion of those who are to represent the people of each State.
The establishment of the same rule for the appointment of taxes, will probably be as little contested; though the rule itself in this case, is by no means founded on the same principle.
Slaves are considered as property, not as persons.
They ought therefore to be comprehended in estimates of taxation which are founded on property, and to be excluded from representation which is regulated by a census of persons.
This is the objection, as I understand it, stated in its full force.
I shall be equally candid in stating the reasoning which may be offered on the opposite side.
We subscribe to the doctrine," might one of our Southern brethren observe, "that representation relates more immediately to persons, and taxation more immediately to property, and we join in the application of this distinction to the case of our slaves.
But we must deny the fact, that slaves are considered merely as property, and in no respect whatever as persons.
The true state of the case is, that they partake of both these qualities: being considered by our laws, in some respects, as persons, and in other respects as property.
The federal Constitution, therefore, decides with great propriety on the case of our slaves, when it views them in the mixed character of persons and of property.
This is in fact their true character.
This question may be placed in another light.
It is agreed on all sides, that numbers are the best scale of wealth and taxation, as they are the only proper scale of representation.
It may be replied, perhaps, that slaves are not included in the estimate of representatives in any of the States possessing them.
They neither vote themselves nor increase the votes of their masters.
Upon what principle, then, ought they to be taken into the federal estimate of representation?
In rejecting them altogether, the Constitution would, in this respect, have followed the very laws which have been appealed to as the proper guide.
This objection is repelled by a single observation.
The qualifications on which the right of suffrage depend are not, perhaps, the same in any two States.
In some of the States the difference is very material.
All that they ask is that equal moderation be shown on the other side.
Let the case of the slaves be considered, as it is in truth, a peculiar one.
Let the compromising expedient of the Constitution be mutually adopted, which regards them as inhabitants, but as debased by servitude below the equal level of free inhabitants, which regards the SLAVE as divested of two fifths of the MAN.
After all, may not another ground be taken on which this article of the Constitution will admit of a still more ready defense?
We have hitherto proceeded on the idea that representation related to persons only, and not at all to property.
But is it a just idea? Government is instituted no less for protection of the property, than of the persons, of individuals.
The one as well as the other, therefore, may be considered as represented by those who are charged with the government.
In the federal Constitution, this policy does not prevail.
The rights of property are committed into the same hands with the personal rights.
Some attention ought, therefore, to be paid to property in the choice of those hands.
For another reason, the votes allowed in the federal legislature to the people of each State, ought to bear some proportion to the comparative wealth of the States.
States have not, like individuals, an influence over each other, arising from superior advantages of fortune.
A State possesses no such influence over other States.
It is not probable that the richest State in the Confederacy will ever influence the choice of a single representative in any other State.
Nor will the representatives of the larger and richer States possess any other advantage in the federal legislature, over the representatives of other States, than what may result from their superior number alone.
As far, therefore, as their superior wealth and weight may justly entitle them to any advantage, it ought to be secured to them by a superior share of representation.
The new Constitution is, in this respect, materially different from the existing Confederation, as well as from that of the United Netherlands, and other similar confederacies.
Under the proposed Constitution, the federal acts will take effect without the necessary intervention of the individual States.
In one respect, the establishment of a common measure for representation and taxation will have a very salutary effect.
Were their share of representation alone to be governed by this rule, they would have an interest in exaggerating their inhabitants.
Were the rule to decide their share of taxation alone, a contrary temptation would prevail.
The number of representatives in Pennsylvania is not more than one fifth of that in the State last mentioned.
New York, whose population is to that of South Carolina as six to five, has little more than one third of the number of representatives.
As great a disparity prevails between the States of Georgia and Delaware or Rhode Island.
In Pennsylvania, the representatives do not bear a greater proportion to their constituents than of one for every four or five thousand.
In Rhode Island, they bear a proportion of at least one for every thousand.
And according to the constitution of Georgia, the proportion may be carried to one to every ten electors; and must unavoidably far exceed the proportion in any of the other States.
Another general remark to be made is, that the ratio between the representatives and the people ought not to be the same where the latter are very numerous as where they are very few.
Were the representatives in Virginia to be regulated by the standard in Rhode Island, they would, at this time, amount to between four and five hundred; and twenty or thirty years hence, to a thousand.
On the other hand, the ratio of Pennsylvania, if applied to the State of Delaware, would reduce the representative assembly of the latter to seven or eight members.
Nothing can be more fallacious than to found our political calculations on arithmetical principles.
Sixty or seventy men may be more properly trusted with a given degree of power than six or seven.
But it does not follow that six or seven hundred would be proportionably a better depositary.
And if we carry on the supposition to six or seven thousand, the whole reasoning ought to be reversed.
With these general ideas in our mind, let us weigh the objections which have been stated against the number of members proposed for the House of Representatives.
It is said, in the first place, that so small a number cannot be safely trusted with so much power.
The number of which this branch of the legislature is to consist, at the outset of the government, will be sixtyfive.
It will not be thought an extravagant conjecture that the first census will, at the rate of one for every thirty thousand, raise the number of representatives to at least one hundred.
Estimating the negroes in the proportion of three fifths, it can scarcely be doubted that the population of the United States will by that time, if it does not already, amount to three millions.
At the expiration of twenty-five years, according to the computed rate of increase, the number of representatives will amount to two hundred, and of fifty years, to four hundred.
This is a number which, I presume, will put an end to all fears arising from the smallness of the body.
I take for granted here what I shall, in answering the fourth objection, hereafter show, that the number of representatives will be augmented from time to time in the manner provided by the Constitution.
On a contrary supposition, I should admit the objection to have very great weight indeed.
The true question to be decided then is, whether the smallness of the number, as a temporary regulation, be dangerous to the public liberty?
Whether sixty-five members for a few years, and a hundred or two hundred for a few more, be a safe depositary for a limited and well-guarded power of legislating for the United States?
What change of circumstances, time, and a fuller population of our country may produce, requires a prophetic spirit to declare, which makes no part of my pretensions.
From what quarter can the danger proceed?
Are we afraid of foreign gold?
If foreign gold could so easily corrupt our federal rulers and enable them to ensnare and betray their constituents, how has it happened that we are at this time a free and independent nation?
Is the danger apprehended from the other branches of the federal government? But where are the means to be found by the President, or the Senate, or both?
The only means, then, which they can possess, will be in the dispensation of appointments.
Is it here that suspicion rests her charge?
Sometimes we are told that this fund of corruption is to be exhausted by the President in subduing the virtue of the Senate.
Now, the fidelity of the other House is to be the victim.
But, fortunately, the Constitution has provided a still further safeguard.
The sincere friends of liberty, who give themselves up to the extravagancies of this passion, are not aware of the injury they do their own cause.
It is a sound and important principle that the representative ought to be acquainted with the interests and circumstances of his constituents.
But this principle can extend no further than to those circumstances and interests to which the authority and care of the representative relate.
An ignorance of a variety of minute and particular objects, which do not lie within the compass of legislation, is consistent with every attribute necessary to a due performance of the legislative trust.
In determining the extent of information required in the exercise of a particular authority, recourse then must be had to the objects within the purview of that authority.
What are to be the objects of federal legislation?
Those which are of most importance, and which seem most to require local knowledge, are commerce, taxation, and the militia.
Taxation will consist, in a great measure, of duties which will be involved in the regulation of commerce.
So far the preceding remark is applicable to this object.
Divide the largest State into ten or twelve districts, and it will be found that there will be no peculiar local interests in either, which will not be within the knowledge of the representative of the district.
Besides this source of information, the laws of the State, framed by representatives from every part of it, will be almost of themselves a sufficient guide.
The federal councils will derive great advantage from another circumstance.
The observations made on the subject of taxation apply with greater force to the case of the militia.
For however different the rules of discipline may be in different States, they are the same throughout each particular State; and depend on circumstances which can differ but little in different parts of the same State.
This information, so far as it may relate to local objects, is rendered necessary and difficult, not by a difference of laws and local circumstances within a single State, but of those among different States.
Taking each State by itself, its laws are the same, and its interests but little diversified.
A few men, therefore, will possess all the knowledge requisite for a proper representation of them.
On a comparison of the different States together, we find a great dissimilarity in their laws, and in many other circumstances connected with the objects of federal legislation, with all of which the federal representatives ought to have some acquaintance.
At present some of the States are little more than a society of husbandmen.
Few of them have made much progress in those branches of industry which give a variety and complexity to the affairs of a nation.
These, however, will in all of them be the fruits of a more advanced population, and will require, on the part of each State, a fuller representation.
The foresight of the convention has accordingly taken care that the progress of population may be accompanied with a proper increase of the representative branch of the government.
The number of inhabitants in the two kingdoms of England and Scotland cannot be stated at less than eight millions.
The elective mode of obtaining rulers is the characteristic policy of republican government. The means relied on in this form of government for preventing their degeneracy are numerous and various.
The most effectual one, is such a limitation of the term of appointments as will maintain a proper responsibility to the people.
Let me now ask what circumstance there is in the constitution of the House of Representatives that violates the principles of republican government, or favors the elevation of the few on the ruins of the many?
Let me ask whether every circumstance is not, on the contrary, strictly conformable to these principles, and scrupulously impartial to the rights and pretensions of every class and description of citizens?
Who are to be the electors of the federal representatives?
Not the rich, more than the poor; not the learned, more than the ignorant; not the haughty heirs of distinguished names, more than the humble sons of obscurity and unpropitious fortune.
The electors are to be the great body of the people of the United States. They are to be the same who exercise the right in every State of electing the corresponding branch of the legislature of the State.
Who are to be the objects of popular choice?
Every citizen whose merit may recommend him to the esteem and confidence of his country.
No qualification of wealth, of birth, of religious faith, or of civil profession is permitted to fetter the judgement or disappoint the inclination of the people.
If we consider the situation of the men on whom the free suffrages of their fellow-citizens may confer the representative trust, we shall find it involving every security which can be devised or desired for their fidelity to their constituents.
In the second place, they will enter into the public service under circumstances which cannot fail to produce a temporary affection at least to their constituents.
All these securities, however, would be found very insufficient without the restraint of frequent elections.
If it be asked, what is to restrain the House of Representatives from making legal discriminations in favor of themselves and a particular class of the society?
If this spirit shall ever be so far debased as to tolerate a law not obligatory on the legislature, as well as on the people, the people will be prepared to tolerate any thing but liberty.
Such will be the relation between the House of Representatives and their constituents.
But are they not all that government will admit, and that human prudence can devise?
Are they not the genuine and the characteristic means by which republican government provides for the liberty and happiness of the people?
Are they not the identical means on which every State government in the Union relies for the attainment of these important ends?
What then are we to understand by the objection which this paper has combated?
We have seen how far such a supposition would err, as to the two first points.
Nor would it, in fact, be less erroneous as to the last.
Will it be pretended that this difference is sufficient to justify an attachment to the State governments, and an abhorrence to the federal government?
If this be the point on which the objection turns, it deserves to be examined.
Is the CONSEQUENCE from this doctrine admissible?
Is the doctrine warranted by FACTS?
It was shown in the last paper, that the real representation in the British House of Commons very little exceeds the proportion of one for every thirty thousand inhabitants.
Notwithstanding these unfavorable circumstances, and notwithstanding some very unequal laws in the British code, it cannot be said that the representatives of the nation have elevated the few on the ruins of the many.
But we need not resort to foreign experience on this subject.
Our own is explicit and decisive.
The districts in New Hampshire in which the senators are chosen immediately by the people, are nearly as large as will be necessary for her representatives in the Congress.
It makes no difference that in these senatorial districts and counties a number of representatives are voted for by each elector at the same time.
If the same electors at the same time are capable of choosing four or five representatives, they cannot be incapable of choosing one.
Pennsylvania is an additional example.
Some of her counties, which elect her State representatives, are almost as large as her districts will be by which her federal representatives will be elected.
The city of Philadelphia is supposed to contain between fifty and sixty thousand souls.
It will therefore form nearly two districts for the choice of federal representatives.
This is the case in all the other counties of the State.
Are not these facts the most satisfactory proofs of the fallacy which has been employed against the branch of the federal government under consideration?
But there are cases of a stronger complexion than any which I have yet quoted. One branch of the legislature of Connecticut is so constituted that each member of it is elected by the whole State.
So is the governor of that State, of Massachusetts, and of this State, and the president of New Hampshire.
It has been admitted, that this objection, if well supported, would have great weight.
The following observations will show that, like most other objections against the Constitution, it can only proceed from a partial view of the subject, or from a jealousy which discolors and disfigures every object which is beheld.
Those who urge the objection seem not to have recollected that the federal Constitution will not suffer by a comparison with the State constitutions, in the security provided for a gradual augmentation of the number of representatives.
The number which is to prevail in the first instance is declared to be temporary.
Its duration is limited to the short term of three years.
Within every successive term of ten years a census of inhabitants is to be repeated.
From this circumstance it may with certainty be inferred that the larger States will be strenuous advocates for increasing the number and weight of that part of the legislature in which their influence predominates.
And it so happens that four only of the largest will have a majority of the whole votes in the House of Representatives.
It may be alleged, perhaps, that the Senate would be prompted by like motives to an adverse coalition; and as their concurrence would be indispensable, the just and constitutional views of the other branch might be defeated.
This is the difficulty which has probably created the most serious apprehensions in the jealous friends of a numerous representation.
Fortunately it is among the difficulties which, existing only in appearance, vanish on a close and accurate inspection.
Hence it is by no means certain that a majority of votes, even in the Senate, would be unfriendly to proper augmentations in the number of representatives.
It will not be looking too far to add, that the senators from all the new States may be gained over to the just views of the House of Representatives, by an expedient too obvious to be overlooked.
As these States will, for a great length of time, advance in population with peculiar rapidity, they will be interested in frequent reapportionments of the representatives to the number of inhabitants.
These considerations seem to afford ample security on this subject, and ought alone to satisfy all the doubts and fears which have been indulged with regard to it.
The House of Representatives cannot only refuse, but they alone can propose, the supplies requisite for the support of government.
Or, if such a trial of firmness between the two branches were hazarded, would not the one be as likely first to yield as the other?
Those who represent the dignity of their country in the eyes of other nations, will be particularly sensible to every prospect of public danger, or of dishonorable stagnation in public affairs.
To those causes we are to ascribe the continual triumph of the British House of Commons over the other branches of the government, whenever the engine of a money bill has been employed.
An absolute inflexibility on the side of the latter, although it could not have failed to involve every department of the state in the general confusion, has neither been apprehended nor experienced.
The utmost degree of firmness that can be displayed by the federal Senate or President, will not be more than equal to a resistance in which they will be supported by constitutional and patriotic principles.
I omit also any remarks on the difficulty which might be found, under present circumstances, in engaging in the federal service a large number of such characters as the people will probably elect.
One observation, however, I must be permitted to add on this subject as claiming, in my judgment, a very serious attention.
It is, that in all legislative assemblies the greater the number composing them may be, the fewer will be the men who will in fact direct their proceedings.
In the first place, the more numerous an assembly may be, of whatever characters composed, the greater is known to be the ascendency of passion over reason.
In the next place, the larger the number, the greater will be the proportion of members of limited information and of weak capacities.
Now, it is precisely on characters of this description that the eloquence and address of the few are known to act with all their force.
The countenance of the government may become more democratic, but the soul that animates it will be more oligarchic.
The machine will be enlarged, but the fewer, and often the more secret, will be the springs by which its motions are directed.
As connected with the objection against the number of representatives, may properly be here noticed, that which has been suggested against the number made competent for legislative business.
It might have been an additional shield to some particular interests, and another obstacle generally to hasty and partial measures.
But these considerations are outweighed by the inconveniences in the opposite scale.
In all cases where justice or the general good might require new laws to be passed, or active measures to be pursued, the fundamental principle of free government would be reversed.
It would be no longer the majority that would rule: the power would be transferred to the minority.
Were the defensive privilege limited to particular cases, an interested minority might take advantage of it to screen themselves from equitable sacrifices to the general weal, or, in particular emergencies, to extort unreasonable indulgences.
I am greatly mistaken, notwithstanding, if there be any article in the whole plan more completely defensible than this.
Its propriety rests upon the evidence of this plain proposition, that EVERY GOVERNMENT OUGHT TO CONTAIN IN ITSELF THE MEANS OF ITS OWN PRESERVATION.
Nothing can be more evident, than that an exclusive power of regulating elections for the national government, in the hands of the State legislatures, would leave the existence of the Union entirely at their mercy.
They could at any moment annihilate it, by neglecting to provide for the choice of persons to administer its affairs.
It is to little purpose to say, that a neglect or omission of this kind would not be likely to take place. The constitutional possibility of the thing, without an equivalent for the risk, is an unanswerable objection.
Nor has any satisfactory reason been yet assigned for incurring that risk.
The extravagant surmises of a distempered jealousy can never be dignified with that character.
If we are in a humor to presume abuses of power, it is as fair to presume them on the part of the State governments as on the part of the general government.
An impartial view of the matter cannot fail to result in a conviction, that each, as far as possible, ought to depend on itself for its own preservation.
The interest of each State, it may be added, to maintain its representation in the national councils, would be a complete security against an abuse of the trust.
This argument, though specious, will not, upon examination, be found solid. It is certainly true that the State legislatures, by forbearing the appointment of senators, may destroy the national government.
But it will not follow that, because they have a power to do this in one instance, they ought to have it in every other.
If this had been done, it would doubtless have been interpreted into an entire dereliction of the federal principle; and would certainly have deprived the State governments of that absolute safeguard which they will enjoy under this provision.
But with regard to the federal House of Representatives, there is intended to be a general election of members once in two years.
This diversity of sentiment between a majority of the people, and the individuals who have the greatest credit in their councils, is exemplified in some of the States at the present moment, on the present question.
Let us now see, what would be the danger on the other side; that is, from confiding the ultimate right of regulating its own elections to the Union itself.
It is not pretended, that this right would ever be used for the exclusion of any State from its share in the representation.
The interest of all would, in this respect at least, be the security of all.
Of all chimerical suppositions, this seems to be the most chimerical.
But the circumstance which will be likely to have the greatest influence in the matter, will be the dissimilar modes of constituting the several component parts of the government.
The collective sense of the State legislatures can never be influenced by extraneous circumstances of that sort; a consideration which alone ought to satisfy us that the discrimination apprehended would never be attempted.
For what inducement could the Senate have to concur in a preference in which itself would not be included?
Or to what purpose would it be established, in reference to one branch of the legislature, if it could not be extended to the other?
The composition of the one would in this case counteract that of the other.
And we can never suppose that it would embrace the appointments to the Senate, unless we can at the same time suppose the voluntary co-operation of the State legislatures.
Is it to be exercised in a discrimination between the different departments of industry, or between the different kinds of property, or between the different degrees of property?
Will it lean in favor of the landed interest, or the moneyed interest, or the mercantile interest, or the manufacturing interest?
And I scruple not to affirm, that it is infinitely less likely that either of them should gain an ascendant in the national councils, than that the one or the other of them should predominate in all the local councils.
The inference will be, that a conduct tending to give an undue preference to either is much less to be dreaded from the former than from the latter. The several States are in various degrees addicted to agriculture and commerce.
In most, if not all of them, agriculture is predominant.
In a few of them, however, commerce nearly divides its empire, and in most of them has a considerable share of influence.
As long as this interest prevails in most of the State legislatures, so long it must maintain a correspondent superiority in the national Senate, which will generally be a faithful copy of the majorities of those assemblies.
It cannot therefore be presumed, that a sacrifice of the landed to the mercantile class will ever be a favorite object of this branch of the federal legislature.
As there is little likelihood that the supposition of such a bias will have any terrors for those who would be immediately injured by it, a labored answer to this question will be dispensed with.
It will be sufficient to remark, first, that for the reasons elsewhere assigned, it is less likely that any decided partiality should prevail in the councils of the Union than in those of any of its members.
Secondly, that there would be no temptation to violate the Constitution in favor of the landed class, because that class would, in the natural course of things, enjoy as great a preponderancy as itself could desire.
They appear to have in view, as the objects of the preference with which they endeavor to alarm us, those whom they designate by the description of "the wealthy and the well-born.
These, it seems, are to be exalted to an odious pre-eminence over the rest of their fellow-citizens.
Have they, by some miraculous instinct or foresight, set apart in each of them a common place of residence?
Are they only to be met with in the towns or cities?
Or are they, on the contrary, scattered over the face of the country as avarice or chance may have happened to cast their own lot or that of their predecessors?
The truth is, that there is no method of securing to the rich the preference apprehended, but by prescribing qualifications of property either for those who may elect or be elected.
But this forms no part of the power to be conferred upon the national government.
Its authority would be expressly restricted to the regulation of the TIMES, the PLACES, the MANNER of elections.
What will be the conclusion?
Would they not be likely to prefer a conduct better adapted to their own immediate aggrandizement?
This, say they, was a necessary precaution against an abuse of the power.
A declaration of this nature would certainly have been harmless; so far as it would have had the effect of quieting apprehensions, it might not have been undesirable.
A review of their situation, in this particular, would tend greatly to remove any ill impressions which may remain in regard to this matter.
But as that view would lead into long and tedious details, I shall content myself with the single example of the State in which I write.
If each State may choose its own time of election, it is possible there may be at least as many different periods as there are months in the year.
The times of election in the several States, as they are now established for local purposes, vary between extremes as wide as March and November.
The mass would be likely to remain nearly the same, assimilating constantly to itself its gradual accretions.
There is a contagion in example which few men have sufficient force of mind to resist.
The same answer may be given to the question put on the other side.
The qualification of senators; II.
The appointment of them by the State legislatures; III.
The equality of representation in the Senate; IV.
The number of senators, and the term for which they are to be elected; V.
The powers vested in the Senate. I.
The qualifications proposed for senators, as distinguished from those of representatives, consist in a more advanced age and a longer period of citizenship.
A senator must be thirty years of age at least; as a representative must be twenty-five.
And the former must have been a citizen nine years; as seven years are required for the latter.
It is equally unnecessary to dilate on the appointment of senators by the State legislatures.
Among the various modes which might have been devised for constituting this branch of the government, that which has been proposed by the convention is probably the most congenial with the public opinion.
The equality of representation in the Senate is another point, which, being evidently the result of compromise between the opposite pretensions of the large and the small States, does not call for much discussion.
A common government, with powers equal to its objects, is called for by the voice, and still more loudly by the political situation, of America.
A government founded on principles more consonant to the wishes of the larger States, is not likely to be obtained from the smaller States.
The only option, then, for the former, lies between the proposed government and a government still more objectionable.
No law or resolution can now be passed without the concurrence, first, of a majority of the people, and then, of a majority of the States.
The number of senators, and the duration of their appointment, come next to be considered.
It is a misfortune incident to republican government, though in a less degree than to other governments, that those who administer it may forget their obligations to their constituents, and prove unfaithful to their important trust.
In this point of view, a senate, as a second branch of the legislative assembly, distinct from, and dividing the power with, a first, must be in all cases a salutary check on the government.
It doubles the security to the people, by requiring the concurrence of two distinct bodies in schemes of usurpation or perfidy, where the ambition or corruption of one would otherwise be sufficient.
This is a precaution founded on such clear principles, and now so well understood in the United States, that it would be more than superfluous to enlarge on it.
The necessity of a senate is not less indicated by the propensity of all single and numerous assemblies to yield to the impulse of sudden and violent passions, and to be seduced by factious leaders into intemperate and pernicious resolutions.
Examples on this subject might be cited without number; and from proceedings within the United States, as well as from the history of other nations.
But a position that will not be contradicted, need not be proved.
All that need be remarked is, that a body which is to correct this infirmity ought itself to be free from it, and consequently ought to be less numerous.
It ought, moreover, to possess great firmness, and consequently ought to hold its authority by a tenure of considerable duration. Thirdly.
Another defect to be supplied by a senate lies in a want of due acquaintance with the objects and principles of legislation.
Some governments are deficient in both these qualities; most governments are deficient in the first.
I scruple not to assert, that in American governments too little attention has been paid to the last.
The federal Constitution avoids this error; and what merits particular notice, it provides for the last in a mode which increases the security for the first. Fourthly.
The mutability in the public councils arising from a rapid succession of new members, however qualified they may be, points out, in the strongest manner, the necessity of some stable institution in the government.
Every new election in the States is found to change one half of the representatives.
From this change of men must proceed a change of opinions; and from a change of opinions, a change of measures.
But a continual change even of good measures is inconsistent with every rule of prudence and every prospect of success.
The remark is verified in private life, and becomes more just, as well as more important, in national transactions. To trace the mischievous effects of a mutable government would fill a volume.
I will hint a few only, each of which will be perceived to be a source of innumerable others. In the first place, it forfeits the respect and confidence of other nations, and all the advantages connected with national character.
Every nation, consequently, whose affairs betray a want of wisdom and stability, may calculate on every loss which can be sustained from the more systematic policy of their wiser neighbors.
But the best instruction on this subject is unhappily conveyed to America by the example of her own situation.
It poisons the blessing of liberty itself.
This is a state of things in which it may be said with some truth that laws are made for the FEW, not for the MANY. In another point of view, great injury results from an unstable government.
The want of confidence in the public councils damps every useful undertaking, the success and profit of which may depend on a continuance of existing arrangements.
What prudent merchant will hazard his fortunes in any new branch of commerce when he knows not but that his plans may be rendered unlawful before they can be executed?
What farmer or manufacturer will lay himself out for the encouragement given to any particular cultivation or establishment, when he can have no assurance that his preparatory labors and advances will not render him a victim to an inconstant government?
This remark will, perhaps, appear not only new, but paradoxical.
The importance of the latter description to the collective and permanent welfare of every country, needs no explanation.
Nor is it possible for the people to estimate the SHARE of influence which their annual assemblies may respectively have on events resulting from the mixed transactions of several years.
I am far from denying that this is a distinction of peculiar importance.
I have, on the contrary, endeavored in a former paper to show, that it is one of the principal recommendations of a confederated republic.
At the same time, this advantage ought not to be considered as superseding the use of auxiliary precautions.
In each of the two first there was a senate for life.
The constitution of the senate in the last is less known. Circumstantial evidence makes it probable that it was not different in this particular from the two others.
I am not unaware of the circumstances which distinguish the American from other popular governments, as well ancient as modern; and which render extreme circumspection necessary, in reasoning from the one case to the other.
But after allowing due weight to this consideration, it may still be maintained, that there are many points of similitude which render these examples not unworthy of our attention.
Many of the defects, as we have seen, which can only be supplied by a senatorial institution, are common to a numerous assembly frequently elected by the people, and to the people themselves.
There are others peculiar to the former, which require the control of such an institution.
The use which has been made of this difference, in reasonings contained in former papers, will have shown that I am disposed neither to deny its existence nor to undervalue its importance.
I feel the less restraint, therefore, in observing, that the position concerning the ignorance of the ancient governments on the subject of representation, is by no means precisely true in the latitude commonly given to it.
The degree of power delegated to them seems to be left in great obscurity.
The senate of Carthage, also, whatever might be its power, or the duration of its appointment, appears to have been ELECTIVE by the suffrages of the people.
But to insure to this advantage its full effect, we must be careful not to separate it from the other advantage, of an extensive territory.
It is evident that the Senate must be first corrupted before it can attempt an establishment of tyranny.
Without corrupting the State legislatures, it cannot prosecute the attempt, because the periodical change of members would otherwise regenerate the whole body.
The constitution of Maryland furnishes the most apposite example.
The Senate of that State is elected, as the federal Senate will be, indirectly by the people, and for a term less by one year only than the federal Senate.
There are some other lesser distinctions, which would expose the former to colorable objections, that do not lie against the latter.
The Senate there instead of being elected for a term of six years, and of being unconfined to particular families or fortunes, is an hereditary assembly of opulent nobles.
The House of Representatives, instead of being elected for two years, and by the whole body of the people, is elected for seven years, and, in very great proportion, by a very small proportion of the people.
Here, unquestionably, ought to be seen in full display the aristocratic usurpations and tyranny which are at some future period to be exemplified in the United States.
In Sparta, the Ephori, the annual representatives of the people, were found an overmatch for the senate for life, continually gained on its authority and finally drew all power into their own hands.
The Tribunes of Rome, who were the representatives of the people, prevailed, it is well known, in almost every contest with the senate for life, and in the end gained the most complete triumph over it.
The fact is the more remarkable, as unanimity was required in every act of the Tribunes, even after their number was augmented to ten.
It proves the irresistible force possessed by that branch of a free government, which has the people on its side.
The Constitution manifests very particular attention to this object.
The duration prescribed is such as will give them an opportunity of greatly extending their political information, and of rendering their accumulating experience more and more beneficial to their country.
These are cases where the most useful intelligence may be obtained, if the persons possessing it can be relieved from apprehensions of discovery.
As in the field, so in the cabinet, there are moments to be seized as they pass, and they who preside in either should be left in capacity to improve them.
So often and so essentially have we heretofore suffered from the want of secrecy and despatch, that the Constitution would have been inexcusably defective, if no attention had been paid to those objects.
For these, the President will find no difficulty to provide; and should any circumstance occur which requires the advice and consent of the Senate, he may at any time convene them.
These gentlemen seem not to consider that the judgments of our courts, and the commissions constitutionally given by our governor, are as valid and as binding on all persons whom they concern, as the laws passed by our legislature.
They insist, and profess to believe, that treaties like acts of assembly, should be repealable at pleasure.
This idea seems to be new and peculiar to this country, but new errors, as well as new truths, often appear.
The proposed Constitution, therefore, has not in the least extended the obligation of treaties.
From this cause, probably, proceed the fears and apprehensions of some, that the President and Senate may make treaties without an equal eye to the interests of all the States.
The idea is too gross and too invidious to be entertained.
Every consideration that can influence the human mind, such as honor, oaths, reputations, conscience, the love of country, and family affections and attachments, afford security for their fidelity.
As in the business of appointments the executive will be the principal agent, the provisions relating to it will most properly be discussed in the examination of that department.
The subjects of its jurisdiction are those offenses which proceed from the misconduct of public men, or, in other words, from the abuse or violation of some public trust.
They are of a nature which may with peculiar propriety be denominated POLITICAL, as they relate chiefly to injuries done immediately to the society itself.
The prosecution of them, for this reason, will seldom fail to agitate the passions of the whole community, and to divide it into parties more or less friendly or inimical to the accused.
Is it not designed as a method of NATIONAL INQUEST into the conduct of public men?
If this be the design of it, who can so properly be the inquisitors for the nation as the representatives of the nation themselves?
It is not disputed that the power of originating the inquiry, or, in other words, of preferring the impeachment, ought to be lodged in the hands of one branch of the legislative body.
Will not the reasons which indicate the propriety of this arrangement strongly plead for an admission of the other branch of that body to a share of the inquiry?
The model from which the idea of this institution has been borrowed, pointed out that course to the convention.
In Great Britain it is the province of the House of Commons to prefer the impeachment, and of the House of Lords to decide upon it.
Several of the State constitutions have followed the example.
As well the latter, as the former, seem to have regarded the practice of impeachments as a bridle in the hands of the legislative body upon the executive servants of the government.
Is not this the true light in which it ought to be regarded? Where else than in the Senate could have been found a tribunal sufficiently dignified, or sufficiently independent?
A deficiency in the first, would be fatal to the accused; in the last, dangerous to the public tranquillity.
The hazard in both these respects, could only be avoided, if at all, by rendering that tribunal more numerous than would consist with a reasonable attention to economy.
There will be no jury to stand between the judges who are to pronounce the sentence of the law, and the party who is to receive or suffer it.
There remains a further consideration, which will not a little strengthen this conclusion.
Would there not be the greatest reason to apprehend, that error, in the first sentence, would be the parent of error in the second sentence?
That the strong bias of one decision would be apt to overrule the influence of any new lights which might be brought to vary the complexion of another decision?
The loss of life and estate would often be virtually included in a sentence which, in its terms, imported nothing more than dismission from a present, and disqualification for a future, office.
It may be said, that the intervention of a jury, in the second instance, would obviate the danger.
But juries are frequently influenced by the opinions of judges. They are sometimes induced to find special verdicts, which refer the main question to the decision of the court.
This was perhaps the prudent mean.
There are weighty arguments, as well against, as in favor of, such a plan.
To some minds it will not appear a trivial objection, that it could tend to increase the complexity of the political machine, and to add a new spring to the government, the utility of which would at best be questionable.
It must either consist of permanent officers, stationary at the seat of government, and of course entitled to fixed and regular stipends, or of certain officers of the State governments to be called upon whenever an impeachment was actually depending.
It will not be easy to imagine any third mode materially different, which could rationally be proposed.
As the court, for reasons already given, ought to be numerous, the first scheme will be reprobated by every man who can compare the extent of the public wants with the means of supplying them.
Where is the standard of perfection to be found?
Who will undertake to unite the discordant opinions of a whole community, in the same judgment of it; and to prevail upon one conceited projector to renounce his INFALLIBLE criterion for the FALLIBLE criterion of his more CONCEITED NEIGHBOR?
The true meaning of this maxim has been discussed and ascertained in another place, and has been shown to be entirely compatible with a partial intermixture of those departments for special purposes, preserving them, in the main, distinct and unconnected.
This partial intermixture is even, in some cases, not only proper but necessary to the mutual defense of the several members of the government against each other.
An absolute or qualified negative in the executive upon the acts of the legislative body, is admitted, by the ablest adepts in political science, to be an indispensable barrier against the encroachments of the latter upon the former.
And it may, perhaps, with no less reason be contended, that the powers relating to impeachments are, as before intimated, an essential check in the hands of that body upon the encroachments of the executive.
The proportion, in point of numbers, of the chancellor and judges to the senators, is so inconsiderable, that the judiciary authority of New York, in the last resort, may, with truth, be said to reside in its Senate.
To an objection so little precise in itself, it is not easy to find a very precise answer.
Where is the measure or criterion to which we can appeal, for determining what will give the Senate too much, too little, or barely the proper degree of influence?
The expediency of the junction of the Senate with the Executive, in the power of appointing to offices, will, I trust, be placed in a light not less satisfactory, in the disquisitions under the same head.
The exclusive privilege of originating money bills will belong to the House of Representatives.
The same house will possess the sole right of instituting impeachments: is not this a complete counterbalance to that of determining them?
The constant possibility of the thing must be a fruitful source of influence to that body.
The more it is contemplated, the more important will appear this ultimate though contingent power, of deciding the competitions of the most illustrious citizens of the Union, for the first office in it.
It is imagined that they would be too indulgent judges of the conduct of men, in whose official creation they had participated.
With equal plausibility might it be alleged in this case, that the favoritism of the latter would always be an asylum for the misbehavior of the former.
There will, of course, be no exertion of CHOICE on the part of the Senate.
They may defeat one choice of the Executive, and oblige him to make another; but they cannot themselves CHOOSE, they can only ratify or reject the choice of the President.
This, it has been said, would constitute the senators their own judges, in every case of a corrupt or perfidious execution of that trust.
How, in fact, could a majority in the House of Representatives impeach themselves?
Not better, it is evident, than two thirds of the Senate might try themselves.
We may thus far count upon their pride, if not upon their virtue.
To establish the pretended affinity, they have not scrupled to draw resources even from the regions of fiction.
The authorities of a magistrate, in few instances greater, in some instances less, than those of a governor of New York, have been magnified into more than royal prerogatives.
He has been decorated with attributes superior in dignity and splendor to those of a king of Great Britain.
He has been shown to us with the diadem sparkling on his brow and the imperial purple flowing in his train.
He has been seated on a throne surrounded with minions and mistresses, giving audience to the envoys of foreign potentates, in all the supercilious pomp of majesty.
The images of Asiatic despotism and voluptuousness have scarcely been wanting to crown the exaggerated scene.
Immediately after this clause follows another in these words: "The President shall have power to fill up ??
VACANCIES that may happen DURING THE RECESS OF THE SENATE, by granting commissions which shall EXPIRE AT THE END OF THEIR NEXT SESSION.
It is from this last provision that the pretended power of the President to fill vacancies in the Senate has been deduced.
This position will hardly be contested. The last of these two clauses, it is equally clear, cannot be understood to comprehend the power of filling vacancies in the Senate, for the following reasons: First.
Nor have I scrupled, in so flagrant a case, to allow myself a severity of animadversion little congenial with the general spirit of these papers.
This evil was not least to be dreaded in the election of a magistrate, who was to have so important an agency in the administration of the government as the President of the United States.
But the precautions which have been so happily concerted in the system under consideration, promise an effectual security against this mischief.
These most deadly adversaries of republican government might naturally have been expected to make their approaches from more than one quarter, but chiefly from the desire in foreign powers to gain an improper ascendant in our councils.
How could they better gratify this, than by raising a creature of their own to the chief magistracy of the Union?
But the convention have guarded against all danger of this sort, with the most provident and judicious attention.
And they have excluded from eligibility to this trust, all those who from situation might be suspected of too great devotion to the President in office.
No senator, representative, or other person holding a place of trust or profit under the United States, can be of the numbers of the electors.
The business of corruption, when it is to embrace so considerable a number of men, requires time as well as means.
He might otherwise be tempted to sacrifice his duty to his complaisance for those whose favor was necessary to the duration of his official consequence.
It will not be too strong to say, that there will be a constant probability of seeing the station filled by characters pre-eminent for ability and virtue.
And this will be thought no inconsiderable recommendation of the Constitution, by those who are able to estimate the share which the executive in every government must necessarily have in its good or ill administration.
It has been alleged, that it would have been preferable to have authorized the Senate to elect out of their own body an officer answering that description.
But two considerations seem to justify the ideas of the convention in this respect.
One is, that to secure at all times the possibility of a definite resolution of the body, it is necessary that the President should have only a casting vote.
It is remarkable that in this, as in most other instances, the objection which is made would lie against the constitution of this State.
The person of the king of Great Britain is sacred and inviolable; there is no constitutional tribunal to which he is amenable; no punishment to which he can be subjected without involving the crisis of a national revolution.
The king of Great Britain, on his part, has an absolute negative upon the acts of the two houses of Parliament.
The qualified negative of the President differs widely from this absolute negative of the British sovereign; and tallies exactly with the revisionary authority of the council of revision of this State, of which the governor is a constituent part.
In most of these particulars, the power of the President will resemble equally that of the king of Great Britain and of the governor of New York.
The most material points of difference are these: First.
The President will have only the occasional command of such part of the militia of the nation as by legislative provision may be called into the actual service of the Union.
The king of Great Britain and the governor of New York have at all times the entire command of all the militia within their several jurisdictions.
In this article, therefore, the power of the President would be inferior to that of either the monarch or the governor.
The President is to be commander-in-chief of the army and navy of the United States.
In this respect his authority would be nominally the same with that of the king of Great Britain, but in substance much inferior to it.
The power of the President, in respect to pardons, would extend to all cases, EXCEPT THOSE OF IMPEACHMENT.
The governor of New York may pardon in all cases, even in those of impeachment, except for treason and murder.
Is not the power of the governor, in this article, on a calculation of political consequences, greater than that of the President?
All conspiracies and plots against the government, which have not been matured into actual treason, may be screened from punishment of every kind, by the interposition of the prerogative of pardoning.
If a governor of New York, therefore, should be at the head of any such conspiracy, until the design had been ripened into actual hostility he could insure his accomplices and adherents an entire impunity.
A President of the Union, on the other hand, though he may even pardon treason, when prosecuted in the ordinary course of law, could shelter no offender, in any degree, from the effects of impeachment and conviction.
Fourthly. The President can only adjourn the national legislature in the single case of disagreement about the time of adjournment.
The British monarch may prorogue or even dissolve the Parliament.
The king of Great Britain is the sole and absolute representative of the nation in all foreign transactions.
He can of his own accord make treaties of peace, commerce, alliance, and of every other description.
It has been insinuated, that his authority in this respect is not conclusive, and that his conventions with foreign powers are subject to the revision, and stand in need of the ratification, of Parliament.
But I believe this doctrine was never heard of, until it was broached upon the present occasion.
In this respect, therefore, there is no comparison between the intended power of the President and the actual power of the British sovereign.
The one can perform alone what the other can do only with the concurrence of a branch of the legislature.
It must be admitted, that, in this instance, the power of the federal Executive would exceed that of any State Executive.
But this arises naturally from the sovereign power which relates to treaties.
This, though it has been a rich theme of declamation, is more a matter of dignity than of authority.
The king of Great Britain is emphatically and truly styled the fountain of honor.
He not only appoints to all offices, but can create offices.
He can confer titles of nobility at pleasure; and has the disposal of an immense number of church preferments.
The power of appointment is with us lodged in a council, composed of the governor and four members of the Senate, chosen by the Assembly.
The governor CLAIMS, and has frequently EXERCISED, the right of nomination, and is ENTITLED to a casting vote in the appointment.
If he really has the right of nominating, his authority is in this respect equal to that of the President, and exceeds it in the article of the casting vote.
And it appears yet more unequivocally, that there is no pretense for the parallel which has been attempted between him and the king of Great Britain.
The one would be amenable to personal punishment and disgrace; the person of the other is sacred and inviolable.
The one would have a QUALIFIED negative upon the acts of the legislative body; the other has an ABSOLUTE negative.
The one would have a right to command the military and naval forces of the nation; the other, in addition to this right, possesses that of DECLARING war, and of RAISING and REGULATING fleets and armies by his own authority.
The one would have a concurrent power with a branch of the legislature in the formation of treaties; the other is the SOLE POSSESSOR of the power of making treaties.
The one would have a like concurrent authority in appointing to offices; the other is the sole author of all appointments.
The one can confer no privileges whatever; the other can make denizens of aliens, noblemen of commoners; can erect corporations with all the rights incident to corporate bodies.
The one has no particle of spiritual jurisdiction; the other is the supreme head and governor of the national church!
What answer shall we give to those who would persuade us that things so unlike resemble each other?
257. [3] Candor, however, demands an acknowledgment that I do not think the claim of the governor to a right of nomination well founded.
Yet it is always justifiable to reason from the practice of a government, till its propriety has been constitutionally questioned.
The enlightened well-wishers to this species of government must at least hope that the supposition is destitute of foundation; since they can never admit its truth, without at the same time admitting the condemnation of their own principles.
Energy in the Executive is a leading character in the definition of good government.
A feeble Executive implies a feeble execution of the government.
How far can they be combined with those other ingredients which constitute safety in the republican sense?
Of the first, the two Consuls of Rome may serve as an example; of the last, we shall find examples in the constitutions of several of the States.
They are both liable, if not to equal, to similar objections, and may in most lights be examined in conjunction. The experience of other nations will afford little instruction on this head.
As far, however, as it teaches any thing, it teaches us not to be enamoured of plurality in the Executive.
We have seen that the Achaeans, on an experiment of two Praetors, were induced to abolish one.
The Roman history records many instances of mischiefs to the republic from the dissensions between the Consuls, and between the military Tribunes, who were at times substituted for the Consuls.
But it gives us no specimens of any peculiar advantages derived to the state from the circumstance of the plurality of those magistrates.
If it be a public trust or office, in which they are clothed with equal dignity and authority, there is peculiar danger of personal emulation and even animosity.
From either, and especially from all these causes, the most bitter dissensions are apt to spring.
Whenever these happen, they lessen the respectability, weaken the authority, and distract the plans and operation of those whom they divide.
If they should unfortunately assail the supreme executive magistracy of a country, consisting of a plurality of persons, they might impede or frustrate the most important measures of the government, in the most critical emergencies of the state.
But if they have been consulted, and have happened to disapprove, opposition then becomes, in their estimation, an indispensable duty of self-love.
It is here too that they may be most pernicious.
In the legislature, promptitude of decision is oftener an evil than a benefit.
The differences of opinion, and the jarrings of parties in that department of the government, though they may sometimes obstruct salutary plans, yet often promote deliberation and circumspection, and serve to check excesses in the majority.
When a resolution too is once taken, the opposition must be at an end.
That resolution is a law, and resistance to it punishable. But no favorable circumstances palliate or atone for the disadvantages of dissension in the executive department.
Here, they are pure and unmixed.
There is no point at which they cease to operate.
They serve to embarrass and weaken the execution of the plan or measure to which they relate, from the first step to the final conclusion of it.
They constantly counteract those qualities in the Executive which are the most necessary ingredients in its composition, vigor and expedition, and this without anycounterbalancing good.
An artful cabal in that council would be able to distract and to enervate the whole system of administration.
Responsibility is of two kinds to censure and to punishment.
The first is the more important of the two, especially in an elective office.
Man, in public trust, will much oftener act in such a manner as to render him unworthy of being any longer trusted, than in such a manner as to make him obnoxious to legal punishment.
But the multiplication of the Executive adds to the difficulty of detection in either case.
It often becomes impossible, amidst mutual accusations, to determine on whom the blame or the punishment of a pernicious measure, or series of pernicious measures, ought really to fall.
It is shifted from one to another with so much dexterity, and under such plausible appearances, that the public opinion is left in suspense about the real author.
The council were so divided in their opinions that it was impossible to obtain any better resolution on the point.
These and similar pretexts are constantly at hand, whether true or false.
And who is there that will either take the trouble or incur the odium, of a strict scrunity into the secret springs of the transaction?
Scandalous appointments to important offices have been made.
Some cases, indeed, have been so flagrant that ALL PARTIES have agreed in the impropriety of the thing.
Nothing, therefore, can be wiser in that kingdom, than to annex to the king a constitutional council, who may be responsible to the nation for the advice they give.
Without this, there would be no responsibility whatever in the executive department an idea inadmissible in a free government.
But even there the king is not bound by the resolutions of his council, though they are answerable for the advice they give.
In the monarchy of Great Britain, it furnishes a substitute for the prohibited responsibility of the chief magistrate, which serves in some degree as a hostage to the national justice for his good behavior.
If the maxim should be admitted to be applicable to the case, I should contend that the advantage on that side would not counterbalance the numerous disadvantages on the opposite side.
But I do not think the rule at all applicable to the executive power.
The united credit and influence of several individuals must be more formidable to liberty, than the credit and influence of either of them separately.
The Decemvirs of Rome, whose name denotes their number,[3] were more to be dreaded in their usurpation than any ONE of them would have been.
No person would think of proposing an Executive much more numerous than that body; from six to a dozen have been suggested for the number of the council.
The extreme of these numbers, is not too great for an easy combination; and from such a combination America would have more to fear, than from the ambition of any single individual.
This has relation to two objects: to the personal firmness of the executive magistrate, in the employment of his constitutional powers; and to the stability of the system of administration which may have been adopted under his auspices.
With regard to the first, it must be evident, that the longer the duration in office, the greater will be the probability of obtaining so important an advantage.
This remark is not less applicable to a political privilege, or honor, or trust, than to any article of ordinary property.
But such men entertain very crude notions, as well of the purposes for which government was instituted, as of the true means by which the public happiness may be promoted.
It is a just observation, that the people commonly INTEND the PUBLIC GOOD.
This often applies to their very errors.
But their good sense would despise the adulator who should pretend that they always REASON RIGHT about the MEANS of promoting it.
The latter may sometimes stand in opposition to the former, and at other times the people may be entirely neutral.
Such a separation must be merely nominal, and incapable of producing the ends for which it was established.
It is one thing to be subordinate to the laws, and another to be dependent on the legislative body.
The first comports with, the last violates, the fundamental principles of good government; and, whatever may be the forms of the Constitution, unites all power in the same hands.
The tendency of the legislative authority to absorb every other, has been fully displayed and illustrated by examples in some preceding numbers.
In governments purely republican, this tendency is almost irresistible.
He might, then, hazard with safety, in proportion to the proofs he had given of his wisdom and integrity, and to the title he had acquired to the respect and attachment of his fellow-citizens.
What, but that he might be unequal to the task which the Constitution assigns him?
It is limited to executive details, and falls peculiarly within the province of the executive department.
Add to this that the same man might be vain or ambitious, as well as avaricious.
That experience is the parent of wisdom, is an adage the truth of which is recognized by the wisest as well as the simplest of mankind.
What more desirable or more essential than this quality in the governors of nations?
How unwise, therefore, must be every such self-denying ordinance as serves to prohibit a nation from making use of its own citizens in the manner best suited to its exigencies and circumstances!
By NECESSITATING a change of men, in the first office of the nation, it would necessitate a mutability of measures.
It is not generally to be expected, that men will vary and measures remain uniform.
The contrary is the usual course of things.
Unless the exclusion be perpetual, there will be no pretense to infer the first advantage.
But even in that case, may he have no object beyond his present station, to which he may sacrifice his independence?
May he have no connections, no friends, for whom he may sacrifice it?
It is not an easy point to determine whether his independence would be most promoted or impaired by such an arrangement. As to the second supposed advantage, there is still greater reason to entertain doubts concerning it.
It is evident that, without proper attention to this article, the separation of the executive from the legislative department would be merely nominal and nugatory.
The legislature, with a discretionary power over the salary and emoluments of the Chief Magistrate, could render him as obsequious to their will as they might think proper to make him.
They might, in most cases, either reduce him by famine, or tempt him by largesses, to surrender at discretion his judgment to their inclinations.
These expressions, taken in all the latitude of the terms, would no doubt convey more than is intended.
It is impossible to imagine any provision which would have been more eligible than this.
The legislature, on the appointment of a President, is once for all to declare what shall be the compensation for his services during the time for which he shall have been elected.
Neither the Union, nor any of its members, will be at liberty to give, nor will he be at liberty to receive, any other emolument than that which may have been determined by the first act.
He can, of course, have no pecuniary inducement to renounce or desert the independence intended for him by the Constitution. The last of the requisites to energy, which have been enumerated, are competent powers.
He might gradually be stripped of his authorities by successive resolutions, or annihilated by a single vote.
And in the one mode or the other, the legislative and executive powers might speedily come to be blended in the same hands.
It not only serves as a shield to the Executive, but it furnishes an additional security against the enaction of improper laws.
But this objection will have little weight with those who can properly estimate the mischiefs of that inconstancy and mutability in the laws, which form the greatest blemish in the character and genius of our governments.
The injury which may possibly be done by defeating a few good laws, will be amply compensated by the advantage of preventing a number of bad ones. Nor is this all.
Nor is it probable, that he would ultimately venture to exert his prerogatives, but in a case of manifest propriety, or extreme necessity.
All well-informed men in that kingdom will accede to the justness of this remark.
An argument, indeed, against its expediency, has been drawn from this very source.
It has been represented, on this account, as a power odious in appearance, useless in practice.
But it will not follow, that because it might be rarely exercised, it would never be exercised.
Instead of an absolute negative, it is proposed to give the Executive the qualified negative already described.
This is a power which would be much more readily exercised than the other.
A direct and categorical negative has something in the appearance of it more harsh, and more apt to irritate, than the mere suggestion of argumentative objections to be approved or disapproved by those to whom they are addressed.
In proportion as it would be less apt to offend, it would be more apt to be exercised; and for this very reason, it may in practice be found more effectual.
It has been freely employed upon a variety of occasions, and frequently with success.
Two strong reasons may be imagined for this preference.
It is impossible to keep the judges too distinct from every other avocation than that of expounding the laws.
The propriety of this provision is so evident in itself, and it is, at the same time, so consonant to the precedents of the State constitutions in general, that little need be said to explain or enforce it.
Even those of them which have, in other respects, coupled the chief magistrate with a council, have for the most part concentrated the military authority in him alone.
Of all the cares or concerns of government, the direction of war most peculiarly demands those qualities which distinguish the exercise of power by a single hand.
The criminal code of every country partakes so much of necessary severity, that without an easy access to exceptions in favor of unfortunate guilt, justice would wear a countenance too sanguinary and cruel.
The reflection that the fate of a fellow-creature depended on his sole fiat, would naturally inspire scrupulousness and caution; the dread of being accused of weakness or connivance, would beget equal circumspection, though of a different kind.
This, it has been urged, ought to have depended upon the assent of one, or both, of the branches of the legislative body.
I shall not deny that there are strong reasons to be assigned for requiring in this particular the concurrence of that body, or of a part of it.
And this ought the rather to be the case, as the supposition of the connivance of the Chief Magistrate ought not to be entirely excluded.
But there are also strong objections to such a plan.
It deserves particular attention, that treason will often be connected with seditions which embrace a large proportion of the community; as lately happened in Massachusetts.
In every such case, we might expect to see the representation of the people tainted with the same spirit which had given birth to the offense.
And when parties were pretty equally matched, the secret sympathy of the friends and favorers of the condemned person, availing itself of the good-nature and weakness of others, might frequently bestow impunity where the terror of an example was necessary.
On the other hand, when the sedition had proceeded from causes which had inflamed the resentments of the major party, they might often be found obstinate and inexorable, when policy demanded a conduct of forbearance and clemency.
The dilatory process of convening the legislature, or one of its branches, for the purpose of obtaining its sanction to the measure, would frequently be the occasion of letting slip the golden opportunity.
The loss of a week, a day, an hour, may sometimes be fatal.
One ground of objection is the trite topic of the intermixture of powers; some contending that the President ought alone to possess the power of making treaties; others, that it ought to have been exclusively deposited in the Senate.
Another source of objection is derived from the small number of persons by whom a treaty may be made.
I venture to add, that the particular nature of the power of making treaties indicates a peculiar propriety in that union.
The power of making treaties is, plainly, neither the one nor the other.
It relates neither to the execution of the subsisting laws, nor to the enaction of new ones; and still less to an exertion of the common strength.
Its objects are CONTRACTS with foreign nations, which have the force of law, but derive it from the obligations of good faith.
They are not rules prescribed by the sovereign to the subject, but agreements between sovereign and sovereign.
The power in question seems therefore to form a distinct department, and to belong, properly, neither to the legislative nor to the executive.
An avaricious man might be tempted to betray the interests of the state to the acquisition of wealth.
An ambitious man might make his own aggrandizement, by the aid of a foreign power, the price of his treachery to his constituents.
While the Union would, from this cause, lose a considerable advantage in the management of its external concerns, the people would lose the additional security which would result from the co-operation of the Executive.
Though it would be imprudent to confide in him solely so important a trust, yet it cannot be doubted that his participation would materially add to the safety of the society.
It must indeed be clear to a demonstration that the joint possession of the power in question, by the President and Senate, would afford a greater prospect of security, than the separate possession of it by either of them.
The fluctuating and, taking its future increase into the account, the multitudinous composition of that body, forbid us to expect in it those qualities which are essential to the proper execution of such a trust.
The very complication of the business, by introducing a necessity of the concurrence of so many different bodies, would of itself afford a solid objection.
If two thirds of the whole number of members had been required, it would, in many cases, from the non-attendance of a part, amount in practice to a necessity of unanimity.
And the history of every political establishment in which this principle has prevailed, is a history of impotence, perplexity, and disorder.
The former, by making a determinate number at all times requisite to a resolution, diminishes the motives to punctual attendance.
The latter, by making the capacity of the body to depend on a PROPORTION which may be varied by the absence or presence of a single member, has the contrary effect.
But the Congress may by law vest the appointment of such inferior officers as they think proper, in the President alone, or in the courts of law, or in the heads of departments.
If the justness of this observation be admitted, the mode of appointing the officers of the United States contained in the foregoing clauses, must, when examined, be allowed to be entitled to particular commendation.
It ought either to be vested in a single man, or in a SELECT assembly of a moderate number; or in a single man, with the concurrence of such an assembly.
The exercise of it by the people at large will be readily admitted to be impracticable; as waiving every other consideration, it would leave them little time to do anything else.
When, therefore, mention is made in the subsequent reasonings of an assembly or body of men, what is said must be understood to relate to a select body or assembly, of the description already given.
The choice which may at any time happen to be made under such circumstances, will of course be the result either of a victory gained by one party over the other, or of a compromise between the parties.
In either case, the intrinsic merit of the candidate will be too often out of sight.
In the first, the qualifications best adapted to uniting the suffrages of the party, will be more considered than those which fit the person for the station.
In the last, the coalition will commonly turn upon some interested equivalent: "Give us the man we wish for this office, and you shall have the one you wish for that.
This will be the usual condition of the bargain.
They contend that the President ought solely to have been authorized to make the appointments under the federal government.
There can, in this view, be no difference others, who are to be the objects of our choice or preference.
There can, in this view, be no difference between nominating and appointing.
The same motives which would influence a proper discharge of his duty in one case, would exist in the other.
And as no man could be appointed but on his previous nomination, every man who might be appointed would be, in fact, his choice. But might not his nomination be overruled?
I grant it might, yet this could only be to make place for another nomination by himself.
The person ultimately appointed must be the object of his preference, though perhaps not in the first degree.
It is also not very probable that his nomination would often be overruled.
I answer, that the necessity of their concurrence would have a powerful, though, in general, a silent operation.
It would be an excellent check upon a spirit of favoritism in the President, and would tend greatly to prevent the appointment of unfit characters from State prejudice, from family connection, from personal attachment, or from a view to popularity.
The possibility of rejection would be a strong motive to care in proposing.
This supposition of universal venalty in human nature is little less an error in political reasoning, than the supposition of universal rectitude.
The institution of delegated power implies, that there is a portion of virtue and honor among mankind, which may be a reasonable foundation of confidence; and experience justifies the theory.
It has been found to exist in the most corrupt periods of the most corrupt governments.
Hence it is (the present reign not excepted) that the sense of that body is often seen to control the inclinations of the monarch, both with regard to men and to measures.
Though it might therefore be allowable to suppose that the Executive might occasionally influence some individuals in the Senate, yet the supposition, that he could in general purchase the integrity of the whole body, would be forced and improbable.
Nor is the integrity of the Senate the only reliance.
The consent of that body would be necessary to displace as well as to appoint.
A change of the Chief Magistrate, therefore, would not occasion so violent or so general a revolution in the officers of the government as might be expected, if he were the sole disposer of offices.
It amounts to this: the President would have an improper INFLUENCE OVER the Senate, because the Senate would have the power of RESTRAINING him.
This is an absurdity in terms.
As I have had occasion to remark in several other instances, the indistinctness of the objection forbids a precise answer.
In what manner is this influence to be exerted?
In relation to what objects?
The power of influencing a person, in the sense in which it is here used, must imply a power of conferring a benefit upon him.
How could the Senate confer a benefit upon the President by the manner of employing their right of negative upon his nominations?
The POWER which can ORIGINATE the disposition of honors and emoluments, is more likely to attract than to be attracted by the POWER which can merely obstruct their course.
If by influencing the President be meant RESTRAINING him, this is precisely what must have been intended.
And it has been shown that the restraint would be salutary, at the same time that it would not be such as to destroy a single advantage to be looked for from the uncontrolled agency of that Magistrate.
The right of nomination would produce all the good of that of appointment, and would in a great measure avoid its evils.
Upon a comparison of the plan for the appointment of the officers of the proposed government with that which is established by the constitution of this State, a decided preference must be given to the former.
In that plan the power of nomination is unequivocally vested in the Executive.
The blame of a bad nomination would fall upon the President singly and absolutely.
The censure of rejecting a good one would lie entirely at the door of the Senate; aggravated by the consideration of their having counteracted the good intentions of the Executive.
If an ill appointment should be made, the Executive for nominating, and the Senate for approving, would participate, though in different degrees, in the opprobrium and disgrace. The reverse of all this characterizes the manner of appointment in this State.
The council of appointment consists of from three to five persons, of whom the governor is always one.
This small body, shut up in a private apartment, impenetrable to the public eye, proceed to the execution of the trust committed to them.
The censure of a bad appointment, on account of the uncertainty of its author, and for want of a determinate object, has neither poignancy nor duration.
And while an unbounded field for cabal and intrigue lies open, all idea of responsibility is lost.
Their number, without an unwarrantable increase of expense, cannot be large enough to preclude a facility of combination.
And as each member will have his friends and connections to provide for, the desire of mutual gratification will beget a scandalous bartering of votes and bargaining for places.
I shall, however, do little more than mention it, as I cannot imagine that it is likely to gain the countenance of any considerable part of the community.
A body so fluctuating and at the same time so numerous, can never be deemed proper for the exercise of that power.
Its unfitness will appear manifest to all, when it is recollected that in half a century it may consist of three or four hundred persons.
All the advantages of the stability, both of the Executive and of the Senate, would be defeated by this union, and infinite delays and embarrassments would be occasioned.
It required, indeed, an insatiable avidity for censure to invent exceptions to the parts which have been excepted to.
In regard to the power of convening either house of the legislature, I shall barely remark, that in respect to the Senate at least, we can readily discover a good reason for it.
But these precautions, great as they are, are not the only ones which the plan of the convention has provided in favor of the public security.
In the only instances in which the abuse of the executive authority was materially to be feared, the Chief Magistrate of the United States would, by that plan, be subjected to the control of a branch of the legislative body.
To these points, therefore, our observations shall be confined. The manner of constituting it seems to embrace these several objects: 1st.
The mode of appointing the judges.
The tenure by which they are to hold their places.
The partition of the judiciary authority between different courts, and their relations to each other. First.
Its propriety having been drawn into question by the adversaries of that plan, is no light symptom of the rage for objection, which disorders their imaginations and judgments.
The standard of good behavior for the continuance in office of the judicial magistracy, is certainly one of the most valuable of the modern improvements in the practice of government.
In a monarchy it is an excellent barrier to the despotism of the prince; in a republic it is a no less excellent barrier to the encroachments and oppressions of the representative body.
The Executive not only dispenses the honors, but holds the sword of the community.
The legislature not only commands the purse, but prescribes the rules by which the duties and rights of every citizen are to be regulated.
The judiciary, on the contrary, has no influence over either the sword or the purse; no direction either of the strength or of the wealth of the society; and can take no active resolution whatever.
By a limited Constitution, I understand one which contains certain specified exceptions to the legislative authority; such, for instance, as that it shall pass no bills of attainder, no ex-post-facto laws, and the like.
Limitations of this kind can be preserved in practice no other way than through the medium of courts of justice, whose duty it must be to declare all acts contrary to the manifest tenor of the Constitution void.
It is urged that the authority which can declare the acts of another void, must necessarily be superior to the one whose acts may be declared void.
No legislative act, therefore, contrary to the Constitution, can be valid.
It is not otherwise to be supposed, that the Constitution could intend to enable the representatives of the people to substitute their WILL to that of their constituents.
It is far more rational to suppose, that the courts were designed to be an intermediate body between the people and the legislature, in order, among other things, to keep the latter within the limits assigned to their authority.
The interpretation of the laws is the proper and peculiar province of the courts.
A constitution is, in fact, and must be regarded by the judges, as a fundamental law.
It therefore belongs to them to ascertain its meaning, as well as the meaning of any particular act proceeding from the legislative body.
They ought to regulate their decisions by the fundamental laws, rather than by those which are not fundamental. This exercise of judicial discretion, in determining between two contradictory laws, is exemplified in a familiar instance.
It not uncommonly happens, that there are two statutes existing at one time, clashing in whole or in part with each other, and neither of them containing any repealing clause or expression.
In such a case, it is the province of the courts to liquidate and fix their meaning and operation.
The rule which has obtained in the courts for determining their relative validity is, that the last in order of time shall be preferred to the first.
But this is a mere rule of construction, not derived from any positive law, but from the nature and reason of the thing.
It is a rule not enjoined upon the courts by legislative provision, but adopted by themselves, as consonant to truth and propriety, for the direction of their conduct as interpreters of the law.
This might as well happen in the case of two contradictory statutes; or it might as well happen in every adjudication upon any single statute.
The courts must declare the sense of the law; and if they should be disposed to exercise WILL instead of JUDGMENT, the consequence would equally be the substitution of their pleasure to that of the legislative body.
These sometimes extend no farther than to the injury of the private rights of particular classes of citizens, by unjust and partial laws.
Here also the firmness of the judicial magistracy is of vast importance in mitigating the severity and confining the operation of such laws.
This is a circumstance calculated to have more influence upon the character of our governments, than but few may be aware of.
Periodical appointments, however regulated, or by whomsoever made, would, in some way or other, be fatal to their necessary independence.
It has been frequently remarked, with great propriety, that a voluminous code of laws is one of the inconveniences necessarily connected with the advantages of a free government.
Hence it is, that there can be but few men in the society who will have sufficient skill in the laws to qualify them for the stations of judges.
And making the proper deductions for the ordinary depravity of human nature, the number must be still smaller of those who unite the requisite integrity with the requisite knowledge.
In the general course of human nature, A POWER OVER A MAN's SUBSISTENCE AMOUNTS TO A POWER OVER HIS WILL.
And we can never hope to see realized in practice, the complete separation of the judicial from the legislative power, in any system which leaves the former dependent for pecuniary resources on the occasional grants of the latter.
The enlightened friends to good government in every State, have seen cause to lament the want of precise and explicit precautions in the State constitutions on this head.
Some of these indeed have declared that PERMANENT[1] salaries should be established for the judges; but the experiment has in some instances shown that such expressions are not sufficiently definite to preclude legislative evasions.
Something still more positive and unequivocal has been evinced to be requisite.
It will readily be understood that the fluctuations in the value of money and in the state of society rendered a fixed rate of compensation in the Constitution inadmissible.
What might be extravagant to-day, might in half a century become penurious and inadequate.
A man may then be sure of the ground upon which he stands, and can never be deterred from his duty by the apprehension of being placed in a less eligible situation.
The clause which has been quoted combines both advantages.
The salaries of judicial officers may from time to time be altered, as occasion shall require, yet so as never to lessen the allowance with which any particular judge comes into office, in respect to him.
This probably arose from the difference in the duration of the respective offices.
As the President is to be elected for no more than four years, it can rarely happen that an adequate salary, fixed at the commencement of that period, will not continue to be such to its end.
They are liable to be impeached for malconduct by the House of Representatives, and tried by the Senate; and, if convicted, may be dismissed from office, and disqualified for holding any other.
But all considerate men will be sensible that such a provision would either not be practiced upon or would be more liable to abuse than calculated to answer any good purpose.
The mensuration of the faculties of the mind has, I believe, no place in the catalogue of known arts.
An attempt to fix the boundary between the regions of ability and inability, would much oftener give scope to personal and party attachments and enmities than advance the interests of justice or the public good.
No man can be a judge beyond sixty.
I believe there are few at present who do not disapprove of this provision.
There is no station, in relation to which it is less proper than to that of a judge.
What, for instance, would avail restrictions on the authority of the State legislatures, without some constitutional mode of enforcing the observance of them?
The States, by the plan of the convention, are prohibited from doing a variety of things, some of which are incompatible with the interests of the Union, and others with the principles of good government.
This power must either be a direct negative on the State laws, or an authority in the federal courts to overrule such as might be in manifest contravention of the articles of Union.
There is no third course that I can imagine.
Thirteen independent courts of final jurisdiction over the same causes, arising upon the same laws, is a hydra in government, from which nothing but contradiction and confusion can proceed. Still less need be said in regard to the third point.
Controversies between the nation and its members or citizens, can only be properly referred to the national tribunals.
Any other plan would be contrary to reason, to precedent, and to decorum. The fourth point rests on this plain proposition, that the peace of the WHOLE ought not to be left at the disposal of a PART.
The Union will undoubtedly be answerable to foreign powers for the conduct of its members.
And the responsibility for an injury ought ever to be accompanied with the faculty of preventing it.
This is not less essential to the preservation of the public faith, than to the security of the public tranquillity.
But there are many other sources, besides interfering claims of boundary, from which bickerings and animosities may spring up among the members of the Union.
To some of these we have been witnesses in the course of our past experience.
The most bigoted idolizers of State authority have not thus far shown a disposition to deny the national judiciary the cognizances of maritime causes.
These so generally depend on the laws of nations, and so commonly affect the rights of foreigners, that they fall within the considerations which are relative to the public peace.
The most important part of them are, by the present Confederation, submitted to federal jurisdiction. The reasonableness of the agency of the national courts in cases in which the State tribunals cannot be supposed to be impartial, speaks for itself.
And it ought to have the same operation in regard to some cases between citizens of the same State.
Claims to land under grants of different States, founded upon adverse pretensions of boundary, are of this description.
The courts of neither of the granting States could be expected to be unbiased.
This constitutes the entire mass of the judicial authority of the Union.
Let us now review it in detail.
It is, then, to extend: First.
To all cases in law and equity, ARISING UNDER THE CONSTITUTION and THE LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES.
This corresponds with the two first classes of causes, which have been enumerated, as proper for the jurisdiction of the United States.
It has been asked, what is meant by "cases arising under the Constitution," in contradiction from those "arising under the laws of the United States"?
The difference has been already explained.
All the restrictions upon the authority of the State legislatures furnish examples of it.
They are not, for instance, to emit paper money; but the interdiction results from the Constitution, and will have no connection with any law of the United States.
Should paper money, notwithstanding, be emited, the controversies concerning it would be cases arising under the Constitution and not the laws of the United States, in the ordinary signification of the terms.
In such cases, where foreigners were concerned on either side, it would be impossible for the federal judicatories to do justice without an equitable as well as a legal jurisdiction.
Agreements to convey lands claimed under the grants of different States, may afford another example of the necessity of an equitable jurisdiction in the federal courts.
To treaties made, or which shall be made, under the authority of the United States, and to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers, and consuls.
These belong to the fourth class of the enumerated cases, as they have an evident connection with the preservation of the national peace. Third.
To cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
These form, altogether, the fifth of the enumerated classes of causes proper for the cognizance of the national courts. Fourth.
To controversies to which the United States shall be a party. These constitute the third of those classes. Fifth.
To controversies between two or more States; between a State and citizens of another State; between citizens of different States.
These belong to the fourth of those classes, and partake, in some measure, of the nature of the last. Sixth.
To cases between the citizens of the same State, CLAIMING LANDS UNDER GRANTS OF DIFFERENT STATES.
These fall within the last class, and ARE THE ONLY INSTANCES IN WHICH THE PROPOSED CONSTITUTION DIRECTLY CONTEMPLATES THE COGNIZANCE OF DISPUTES BETWEEN THE CITIZENS OF THE SAME STATE. Seventh.
To cases between a State and the citizens thereof, and foreign States, citizens, or subjects.
The reasons for it have been assigned in another place, and are too obvious to need repetition.
The only question that seems to have been raised concerning it, is, whether it ought to be a distinct body or a branch of the legislature.
The same contradiction is observable in regard to this matter which has been remarked in several other cases.
This is as unprecedented as it is dangerous.
In Britain, the judical power, in the last resort, resides in the House of Lords, which is a branch of the legislature; and this part of the British government has been imitated in the State constitutions in general.
The Parliament of Great Britain, and the legislatures of the several States, can at any time rectify, by law, the exceptionable decisions of their respective courts.
But the errors and usurpations of the Supreme Court of the United States will be uncontrollable and remediless.
I admit, however, that the Constitution ought to be the standard of construction for the laws, and that wherever there is an evident opposition, the laws ought to give place to the Constitution.
To insist upon this point, the authors of the objection must renounce the meaning they have labored to annex to the celebrated maxim, requiring a separation of the departments of power.
It shall, nevertheless, be conceded to them, agreeably to the interpretation given to that maxim in the course of these papers, that it is not violated by vesting the ultimate power of judging in a PART of the legislative body.
The theory, neither of the British, nor the State constitutions, authorizes the revisal of a judicial sentence by a legislative act.
Nor is there any thing in the proposed Constitution, more than in either of them, by which it is forbidden.
In the former, as well as in the latter, the impropriety of the thing, on the general principles of law and reason, is the sole obstacle.
A legislature, without exceeding its province, cannot reverse a determination once made in a particular case; though it may prescribe a new rule for future cases.
This is the principle, and it applies in all its consequences, exactly in the same manner and extent, to the State governments, as to the national government now under consideration.
This is alone a complete security.
This admits of different answers.
To confer the power of determining such causes upon the existing courts of the several States, would perhaps be as much "to constitute tribunals," as to create new courts with the like power.
But ought not a more direct and explicit provision to have been made in favor of the State courts?
State judges, holding their offices during pleasure, or from year to year, will be too little independent to be relied upon for an inflexible execution of the national laws.
And if there was a necessity for confiding the original cognizance of causes arising under those laws to them there would be a correspondent necessity for leaving the door of appeal as wide as possible.
In proportion to the grounds of confidence in, or distrust of, the subordinate tribunals, ought to be the facility or difficulty of appeals.
And well satisfied as I am of the propriety of the appellate jurisdiction, in the several classes of causes to which it is extended by the plan of the convention.
The judges of these courts, with the aid of the State judges, may hold circuits for the trial of causes in the several parts of the respective districts.
Justice through them may be administered with ease and despatch; and appeals may be safely circumscribed within a narrow compass.
Let us now examine in what manner the judicial authority is to be distributed between the supreme and the inferior courts of the Union.
The Supreme Court is to be invested with original jurisdiction, only "in cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers, and consuls, and those in which A STATE shall be a party.
Public ministers of every class are the immediate representatives of their sovereigns.
Though consuls have not in strictness a diplomatic character, yet as they are the public agents of the nations to which they belong, the same observation is in a great measure applicable to them.
In cases in which a State might happen to be a party, it would ill suit its dignity to be turned over to an inferior tribunal.
Though it may rather be a digression from the immediate subject of this paper, I shall take occasion to mention here a supposition which has excited some alarm upon very mistaken grounds.
This is the general sense, and the general practice of mankind; and the exemption, as one of the attributes of sovereignty, is now enjoyed by the government of every State in the Union.
Unless, therefore, there is a surrender of this immunity in the plan of the convention, it will remain with the States, and the danger intimated must be merely ideal.
The circumstances which are necessary to produce an alienation of State sovereignty were discussed in considering the article of taxation, and need not be repeated here.
The contracts between a nation and individuals are only binding on the conscience of the sovereign, and have no pretensions to a compulsive force.
They confer no right of action, independent of the sovereign will.
To what purpose would it be to authorize suits against States for the debts they owe?
How could recoveries be enforced?
We have seen that the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court would be confined to two classes of causes, and those of a nature rarely to occur.
A technical sense has been affixed to the term "appellate," which, in our law parlance, is commonly used in reference to appeals in the course of the civil law.
But if I am not misinformed, the same meaning would not be given to it in any part of New England.
There an appeal from one jury to another, is familiar both in language and practice, and is even a matter of course, until there have been two verdicts on one side.
The word "appellate," therefore, will not be understood in the same sense in New England as in New York, which shows the impropriety of a technical interpretation derived from the jurisprudence of any particular State.
The expression, taken in the abstract, denotes nothing more than the power of one tribunal to review the proceedings of another, either as to the law or fact, or both.
The mode of doing it may depend on ancient custom or legislative provision (in a new government it must depend on the latter), and may be with or without the aid of a jury, as may be judged advisable.
The appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court (it may have been argued) will extend to causes determinable in different modes, some in the course of the COMMON LAW, others in the course of the CIVIL LAW.
It is therefore necessary that the appellate jurisdiction should, in certain cases, extend in the broadest sense to matters of fact.
The legislature of the United States would certainly have full power to provide, that in appeals to the Supreme Court there should be no re-examination of facts where they had been tried in the original causes by juries.
But the expressions of the Constitution are, to constitute "tribunals INFERIOR TO THE SUPREME COURT"; and the evident design of the provision is to enable the institution of local courts, subordinate to the Supreme, either in States or larger districts.
The principal of these respect the situation of the State courts in regard to those causes which are to be submitted to federal jurisdiction.
Is this to be exclusive, or are those courts to possess a concurrent jurisdiction?
If the latter, in what relation will they stand to the national tribunals?
This I infer from the nature of judiciary power, and from the general genius of the system.
Those of Japan, not less than of New York, may furnish the objects of legal discussion to our courts.
I answer, that an appeal would certainly lie from the latter, to the Supreme Court of the United States.
The objects of appeal, not the tribunals from which it is to be made, are alone contemplated.
From this circumstance, and from the reason of the thing, it ought to be construed to extend to the State tribunals.
Either this must be the case, or the local courts must be excluded from a concurrent jurisdiction in matters of national concern, else the judiciary authority of the Union may be eluded at the pleasure of every plaintiff or prosecutor.
Agreeably to the remark already made, the national and State systems are to be regarded as ONE WHOLE.
The evident aim of the plan of the convention is, that all the causes of the specified classes shall, for weighty public reasons, receive their original or final determination in the courts of the Union.
This is another of the questions which have been raised, and of greater difficulty than the former.
The following considerations countenance the affirmative.
It afterwards divides the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court into original and appellate, but gives no definition of that of the subordinate courts.
The only outlines described for them, are that they shall be "inferior to the Supreme Court," and that they shall not exceed the specified limits of the federal judiciary.
Whether their authority shall be original or appellate, or both, is not declared.
All this seems to be left to the discretion of the legislature.
And this being the case, I perceive at present no impediment to the establishment of an appeal from the State courts to the subordinate national tribunals; and many advantages attending the power of doing it may be imagined.
It would diminish the motives to the multiplication of federal courts, and would admit of arrangements calculated to contract the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.
The disingenuous form in which this objection is usually stated has been repeatedly adverted to and exposed, but continues to be pursued in all the conversations and writings of the opponents of the plan.
Every man of discernment must at once perceive the wide difference between SILENCE and ABOLITION.
The true test, therefore, of a just application of them is its conformity to the source from which they are derived.
Is it natural to suppose, that a command to do one thing is a prohibition to the doing of another, which there was a previous power to do, and which is not incompatible with the thing commanded to be done?
Even if these maxims had a precise technical sense, corresponding with the idea of those who employ them upon the present occasion, which, however, is not the case, they would still be inapplicable to a constitution of government.
This will be best done by examples.
The plan of the convention declares that the power of Congress, or, in other words, of the NATIONAL LEGISLATURE, shall extend to certain enumerated cases.
Discussions of this kind would be more curious than beneficial, as all are satisfied of the utility of the institution, and of its friendly aspect to liberty.
But I must acknowledge that I cannot readily discern the inseparable connection between the existence of liberty, and the trial by jury in civil cases.
Arbitrary impeachments, arbitrary methods of prosecuting pretended offenses, and arbitrary punishments upon arbitrary convictions, have ever appeared to me to be the great engines of judicial despotism; and these have all relation to criminal proceedings.
The trial by jury in criminal cases, aided by the habeas-corpus act, seems therefore to be alone concerned in the question.
And both of these are provided for, in the most ample manner, in the plan of the convention. It has been observed, that trial by jury is a safeguard against an oppressive exercise of the power of taxation.
The taxes are usually levied by the more summary proceeding of distress and sale, as in cases of rent.
And it is acknowledged on all hands, that this is essential to the efficacy of the revenue laws.
The strongest argument in its favor is, that it is a security against corruption.
The force of this consideration is, however, diminished by others.
It is not difficult to see, that it would be in the power of those officers to select jurors who would serve the purpose of the party as well as a corrupted bench.
But making every deduction for these considerations, the trial by jury must still be a valuable check upon corruption.
It greatly multiplies the impediments to its success.
Here then is a double security; and it will readily be perceived that this complicated agency tends to preserve the purity of both institutions.
By increasing the obstacles to success, it discourages attempts to seduce the integrity of either.
In this State, our judicial establishments resemble, more nearly than in any other, those of Great Britain.
We have courts of common law, courts of probates (analogous in certain matters to the spiritual courts in England), a court of admiralty and a court of chancery.
In the courts of common law only, the trial by jury prevails, and this with some exceptions.
In Pennsylvania, this is perhaps still more the case, for there is no court of chancery in that State, and its common-law courts have equity jurisdiction.
It has a court of admiralty, but none of probates, at least on the plan of ours.
Delaware has in these respects imitated Pennsylvania.
Maryland approaches more nearly to New York, as does also Virginia, except that the latter has a plurality of chancellors.
North Carolina bears most affinity to Pennsylvania; South Carolina to Virginia.
I believe, however, that in some of those States which have distinct courts of admiralty, the causes depending in them are triable by juries.
In Georgia there are none but common-law courts, and an appeal of course lies from the verdict of one jury to another, which is called a special jury, and for which a particular mode of appointment is marked out.
In Connecticut, they have no distinct courts either of chancery or of admiralty, and their courts of probates have no jurisdiction of causes.
Their common-law courts have admiralty and, to a certain extent, equity jurisdiction.
In cases of importance, their General Assembly is the only court of chancery.
In Connecticut, therefore, the trial by jury extends in PRACTICE further than in any other State yet mentioned.
Rhode Island is, I believe, in this particular, pretty much in the situation of Connecticut.
Massachusetts and New Hampshire, in regard to the blending of law, equity, and admiralty jurisdictions, are in a similar predicament.
In the four Eastern States, the trial by jury not only stands upon a broader foundation than in the other States, but it is attended with a peculiarity unknown, in its full extent, to any of them.
The minority of Pennsylvania have proposed this mode of expression for the purpose "Trial by jury shall be as heretofore" and this I maintain would be senseless and nugatory.
The United States, in their united or collective capacity, are the OBJECT to which all general provisions in the Constitution must necessarily be construed to refer.
The capricious operation of so dissimilar a method of trial in the same cases, under the same government, is of itself sufficient to indispose every wellregulated judgment towards it.
Whether the cause should be tried with or without a jury, would depend, in a great number of cases, on the accidental situation of the court and parties. But this is not, in my estimation, the greatest objection.
I feel a deep and deliberate conviction that there are many cases in which the trial by jury is an ineligible one.
I think it so particularly in cases which concern the public peace with foreign nations that is, in most cases where the question turns wholly on the laws of nations.
Of this nature, among others, are all prize causes.
There would of course be always danger that the rights of other nations might be infringed by their decisions, so as to afford occasions of reprisal and war.
The great and primary use of a court of equity is to give relief IN EXTRAORDINARY CASES, which are EXCEPTIONS[2] to general rules.
They require often such long, deliberate, and critical investigation as would be impracticable to men called from their occupations, and obliged to decide before they were permitted to return to them.
But it is equally true that the trial by jury has been unknown in every case in which they have been united.
And the separation is essential to the preservation of that institution in its pristine purity.
If the first, the omission of a regulation respecting so partial an object can never be considered as a material imperfection in the system.
In this State, the boundaries between actions at common law and actions of equitable jurisdiction, are ascertained in conformity to the rules which prevail in England upon that subject.
In many of the other States the boundaries are less precise.
Hence the same irregularity and confusion would be introduced by a compliance with this proposition, that I have already noticed as resulting from the regulation proposed by the Pennsylvania minority.
To devise a plan of that kind is a task arduous in itself, and which it would require much time and reflection to mature.
I answer that it is not very probable the other States would entertain the same opinion of our institutions as we do ourselves.
It is natural to suppose that they are hitherto more attached to their own, and that each would struggle for the preference.
It has been shown that many of them would be improper ones. And I leave it to conjecture, whether, under all circumstances, it is most likely that New York, or some other State, would have been preferred.
But admit that a judicious selection could have been effected in the convention, still there would have been great danger of jealousy and disgust in the other States, at the partiality which had been shown to the institutions of one.
For my part, I acknowledge myself to be convinced that even in this State it might be advantageously extended to some cases to which it does not at present apply, and might as advantageously be abridged in others.
It is conceded by all reasonable men that it ought not to obtain in all cases.
There, however, remain a few which either did not fall naturally under any particular head or were forgotten in their proper places.
Among other answers given to this, it has been upon different occasions remarked that the constitutions of several of the States are in a similar predicament.
I add that New York is of the number.
And yet the opposers of the new system, in this State, who profess an unlimited admiration for its constitution, are among the most intemperate partisans of a bill of rights.
Section 9, of the same article, clause 2 "The privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended, unless when in cases of rebellion or invasion the public safety may require it.
Clause 3 "No bill of attainder or ex-post-facto law shall be passed.
Section 3, of the same article "Treason against the United States shall consist only in levying war against them, or in adhering to their enemies, giving them aid and comfort.
No person shall be convicted of treason, unless on the testimony of two witnesses to the same overt act, or on confession in open court.
They are therefore at any moment liable to repeal by the ordinary legislative power, and of course have no constitutional sanction.
The only use of the declaration was to recognize the ancient law and to remove doubts which might have been occasioned by the Revolution.
Such was MAGNA CHARTA, obtained by the barons, sword in hand, from King John.
Such were the subsequent confirmations of that charter by succeeding princes.
Such was the PETITION OF RIGHT assented to by Charles I., in the beginning of his reign.
Such, also, was the Declaration of Right presented by the Lords and Commons to the Prince of Orange in 1688, and afterwards thrown into the form of an act of parliament called the Bill of Rights.
It is evident, therefore, that, according to their primitive signification, they have no application to constitutions professedly founded upon the power of the people, and executed by their immediate representatives and servants.
If, therefore, the loud clamors against the plan of the convention, on this score, are well founded, no epithets of reprobation will be too strong for the constitution of this State.
They would contain various exceptions to powers not granted; and, on this very account, would afford a colorable pretext to claim more than were granted.
For why declare that things shall not be done which there is no power to do?
Why, for instance, should it be said that the liberty of the press shall not be restrained, when no power is given by which restrictions may be imposed?
I will not contend that such a provision would confer a regulating power; but it is evident that it would furnish, to men disposed to usurp, a plausible pretense for claiming that power.
What signifies a declaration, that "the liberty of the press shall be inviolably preserved"?
What is the liberty of the press?
Who can give it any definition which would not leave the utmost latitude for evasion?
The several bills of rights in Great Britain form its Constitution, and conversely the constitution of each State is its bill of rights.
And the proposed Constitution, if adopted, will be the bill of rights of the Union.
Is it one object of a bill of rights to declare and specify the political privileges of the citizens in the structure and administration of the government?
This is done in the most ample and precise manner in the plan of the convention; comprehending various precautions for the public security, which are not to be found in any of the State constitutions.
Is another object of a bill of rights to define certain immunities and modes of proceeding, which are relative to personal and private concerns?
It may be said that it does not go far enough, though it will not be easy to make this appear; but it can with no propriety be contended that there is no such thing.
It certainly must be immaterial what mode is observed as to the order of declaring the rights of the citizens, if they are to be found in any part of the instrument which establishes the government.
But there are satisfactory reasons to show that the objection is in reality not well founded.
There is in most of the arguments which relate to distance a palpable illusion of the imagination.
What are the sources of information by which the people in Montgomery County must regulate their judgment of the conduct of their representatives in the State legislature?
Of personal observation they can have no benefit.
This is confined to the citizens on the spot.
They must therefore depend on the information of intelligent men, in whom they confide; and how must these men obtain their information?
Evidently from the complexion of public measures, from the public prints, from correspondences with their representatives, and with other persons who reside at the place of their deliberations.
Their disposition to apprise the community of whatever may prejudice its interests from another quarter, may be relied upon, if it were only from the rivalship of power.
This has been represented as a tacit relinquishment of those debts, and as a wicked contrivance to screen public defaulters.
The newspapers have teemed with the most inflammatory railings on this head; yet there is nothing clearer than that the suggestion is entirely void of foundation, the offspring of extreme ignorance or extreme dishonesty.
In conceding all this, the question of expense must be given up; for it is impossible, with any degree of safety, to narrow the foundation upon which the system is to stand.
The two branches of the legislature are, in the first instance, to consist of only sixty-five persons, which is the same number of which Congress, under the existing Confederation, may be composed.
It is true that this number is intended to be increased; but this is to keep pace with the progress of the population and resources of the country.
As to ambassadors and other ministers and agents in foreign countries, the proposed Constitution can make no other difference than to render their characters, where they reside, more respectable, and their services more useful.
It will be in most cases nothing more than an exchange of State for national officers.
In the collection of all duties, for instance, the persons employed will be wholly of the latter description.
The States individually will stand in no need of any for this purpose.
The chief item which occurs to me respects the support of the judges of the United States.
I do not add the President, because there is now a president of Congress, whose expenses may not be far, if any thing, short of those which will be incurred on account of the President of the United States.
The support of the judges will clearly be an extra expense, but to what extent will depend on the particular plan which may be adopted in regard to this matter.
But upon no reasonable plan can it amount to a sum which will be an object of material consequence. Let us now see what there is to counterbalance any extra expense that may attend the establishment of the proposed government.
The first thing which presents itself is that a great part of the business which now keeps Congress sitting through the year will be transacted by the President.
Even the management of foreign negotiations will naturally devolve upon him, according to general principles concerted with the Senate, and subject to their final concurrence.
The extra business of treaties and appointments may give this extra occupation to the Senate.
The business of the United States has hitherto occupied the State legislatures, as well as Congress.
The latter has made requisitions which the former have had to provide for.
Hence it has happened that the sessions of the State legislatures have been protracted greatly beyond what was necessary for the execution of the mere local business of the States.
More than half their time has been frequently employed in matters which related to the United States.
136. [2] _Vide_ Blackstone's _Commentaries_, vol. iv., p.
438. [3] To show that there is a power in the Constitution by which the liberty of the press may be affected, recourse has been had to the power of taxation.
It is said that duties may be laid upon the publications so high as to amount to a prohibition.
It cannot certainly be pretended that any degree of duties, however low, would be an abridgment of the liberty of the press.
We know that newspapers are taxed in Great Britain, and yet it is notorious that the press nowhere enjoys greater liberty than in that country.
The same invasions of it may be effected under the State constitutions which contain those declarations through the means of taxation, as under the proposed Constitution, which has nothing of the kind.
Among the pretended defects are the re-eligibility of the Executive, the want of a council, the omission of a formal bill of rights, the omission of a provision respecting the liberty of the press.
I trust at least you will admit that I have not failed in the assurance I gave you respecting the spirit with which my endeavors should be conducted.
The perpetual changes which have been rung upon the wealthy, the well-born, and the great, have been such as to inspire the disgust of all sensible men.
And the unwarrantable concealments and misrepresentations which have been in various ways practiced to keep the truth from the public eye, have been of a nature to demand the reprobation of all honest men.
Every man is bound to answer these questions to himself, according to the best of his conscience and understanding, and to act agreeably to the genuine and sober dictates of his judgment.
This is a duty from which nothing can give him a dispensation.
T is one that he is called upon, nay, constrained by all the obligations that form the bands of society, to discharge sincerely and honestly.
No partial motive, no particular interest, no pride of opinion, no temporary passion or prejudice, will justify to himself, to his country, or to his posterity, an improper election of the part he is to act.
Why," say they, "should we adopt an imperfect thing? Why not amend it and make it perfect before it is irrevocably established?
This may be plausible enough, but it is only plausible. In the first place I remark, that the extent of these concessions has been greatly exaggerated.
They have been stated as amounting to an admission that the plan is radically defective, and that without material alterations the rights and the interests of the community cannot be safely confided to it.
This, as far as I have understood the meaning of those who make the concessions, is an entire perversion of their sense.
I never expect to see a perfect work from imperfect man.
The result of the deliberations of all collective bodies must necessarily be a compound, as well of the errors and prejudices, as of the good sense and wisdom, of the individuals of whom they are composed.
The compacts which are to embrace thirteen distinct States in a common bond of amity and union, must as necessarily be a compromise of as many dissimilar interests and inclinations.
I will not repeat the arguments there used, as I presume the production itself has had an extensive circulation.
I cannot resolve to conclude without first taking a survey of it in this aspect. It appears to me susceptible of absolute demonstration, that it will be far more easy to obtain subsequent than previous amendments to the Constitution.
The moment an alteration is made in the present plan, it becomes, to the purpose of adoption, a new one, and must undergo a new decision of each State.
Here, then, the chances are as thirteen to nine[2] in favor of subsequent amendment, rather than of the original adoption of an entire system. This is not all.
Every Constitution for the United States must inevitably consist of a great variety of particulars, in which thirteen independent States are to be accommodated in their interests or opinions of interest.
We may of course expect to see, in any body of men charged with its original formation, very different combinations of the parts upon different points.
Many of those who form a majority on one question, may become the minority on a second, and an association dissimilar to either may constitute the majority on a third.
There would then be no necessity for management or compromise, in relation to any other point no giving nor taking.
The will of the requisite number would at once bring the matter to a decisive issue.
And consequently, whenever nine, or rather ten States, were united in the desire of a particular amendment, that amendment must infallibly take place.
But there is yet a further consideration, which proves beyond the possibility of a doubt, that the observation is futile.
It is this that the national rulers, whenever nine States concur, will have no option upon the subject.
The words of this article are peremptory.
The Congress "shall call a convention.
Nothing in this particular is left to the discretion of that body.
And of consequence, all the declamation about the disinclination to a change vanishes in air.
The establishment of a Constitution, in time of profound peace, by the voluntary consent of a whole people, is a prodigy, to the completion of which I look forward with trembling anxiety.
The Song of Hiawatha Henry W.
Longfellow CONTENTS Introductory Note Introduction I.
Hiawatha and the Pearl-Feather X.
The Son of the Evening Star XIII.
The Hunting of Pau-Puk-Keewis XVIII.
The Death of Kwasind XIX.
The White Man's Foot XXII.
Hiawatha's Departure Vocabulary Introductory Note The Song of Hiawatha is based on the legends and stories of many North American Indian tribes, but especially those of the Ojibway Indians of northern Michigan, Wisconsin, and Minnesota.
They were collected by Henry Rowe Schoolcraft, the reknowned historian, pioneer explorer, and geologist.
He was superintendent of Indian affairs for Michigan from 1836 to 1841. Schoolcraft married Jane, O-bah-bahm-wawa-ge-zhe-go-qua (The Woman of the Sound Which the Stars Make Rushing Through the Sky), Johnston.
It was this latter revision that Longfellow used as the basis for The Song of Hiawatha. Longfellow began Hiawatha on June 25, 1854, he completed it on March 29, 1855, and it was published November 10, 1855.
As soon as the poem was published its popularity was assured.
However, it also was severely criticized as a plagiary of the Finnish epic poem Kalevala.
Longfellow made no secret of the fact that he had used the meter of the Kalevala; but as for the legends, he openly gave credit to Schoolcraft in his notes to the poem. I would add a personal note here.
My father's roots include Ojibway Indians: his mother, Margaret Caroline Davenport, was a daughter of Susan des Carreaux, O-gee-em-a-qua (The Chief Woman), Davenport whose mother was a daughter of Chief Waub-o-jeeg.
Chibiabos! He is dead, the sweet musician!" From the wigwam sang the robin, Sang the robin, the Opechee, "Chibiabos!
Chibiabos! He is dead, the sweetest singer!" And at night through all the forest Went the whippoorwill complaining, Wailing went the Wawonaissa, "Chibiabos!
Hiawatha!" And the desolate Hiawatha, Far away amid the forest, Miles away among the mountains, Heard that sudden cry of anguish, Heard the voice of Minnehaha Calling to him in the darkness, "Hiawatha!
Hiawatha!" Over snow-fields waste and pathless, Under snow-encumbered branches, Homeward hurried Hiawatha, Empty-handed, heavy-hearted, Heard Nokomis moaning, wailing: "Wahonowin!
Wahonowin! Would that I had perished for you, Would that I were dead as you are! Wahonowin!
Be it so, since hee Who now is Sovran can dispose and bid What shall be right: fardest from him is best Whom reason hath equald, force hath made supream Above his equals.
Him the _Ammonite_ Worshipt in _Rabba_ and her watry Plain, In _Argob_ and in _Basan_, to the stream Of utmost _Arnon_.
After these appear'd A crew who under Names of old Renown, _Osiris_, _Isis_, _Orus_ and their Train With monstrous shapes and sorceries abus'd Fanatic _Egypt_ and her Priests, to seek Thir wandring Gods disguis'd in brutish forms Rather then human.
As when Heavens Fire Hath scath'd the Forrest Oaks, or Mountain Pines, With singed top their stately growth though bare Stands on the blasted Heath.
But these thoughts Full Counsel must mature: Peace is despaird, For who can think Submission?
Thither wing'd with speed A numerous Brigad hasten'd.
Soon had his crew Op'nd into the Hill a spacious wound And dig'd out ribs of Gold.
Let none admire That riches grow in Hell; that soyle may best Deserve the pretious bane.
Not _Babilon_, Nor great _Alcairo_ such magnificence Equal'd in all thir glories, to inshrine _Belus_ or _Serapis_ thir Gods, or seat Thir Kings, when _Aegypt_ with _Assyria_ strove In wealth and luxurie.
But far within And in thir own dimensions like themselves The great Seraphic Lords and Cherubim In close recess and secret conclave sat A thousand Demy-Gods on golden seat's, Frequent and full.
Who but felt of late When the fierce Foe hung on our brok'n Rear Insulting, and pursu'd us through the Deep, With what compulsion and laborious flight We sunk thus low?
This must be our task In Heav'n, this our delight; how wearisom Eternity so spent in worship paid To whom we hate.
Our greatness will appear Then most conspicuous, when great things of small, Useful of hurtful, prosperous of adverse We can create, and in what place so e're Thrive under evil, and work ease out of pain Through labour and endurance.
This deep world Of darkness do we dread?
What if we find Some easier enterprize?
This would surpass Common revenge, and interrupt his joy In our Confusion, and our Joy upraise In his disturbance; when his darling Sons Hurl'd headlong to partake with us, shall curse Thir frail Originals, and faded bliss, Faded so soon.
Advise if this be worth Attempting, or to sit in darkness here Hatching vain Empires.
But thir spite still serves His glory to augment.
But they Dreaded not more th' adventure then his voice Forbidding; and at once with him they rose; Thir rising all at once was as the sound Of Thunder heard remote.
So seem'd Farr off the flying Fiend: at last appeer Hell bounds high reaching to the horrid Roof, And thrice threefold the Gates; three folds were Brass Three Iron, three of Adamantine Rock, Impenitrable, impal'd with circling fire, Yet unconsum'd.
To whom these most adhere, Hee rules a moment; _Chaos_ Umpire sits, And by decision more imbroiles the fray By which he Reigns: next him high Arbiter _Chance_ governs all.
In shadier Bower More sacred and sequesterd, though but feignd, _Pan_ or _Silvanus_ never slept, nor Nymph, Nor _Faunus_ haunted.
If I must contend, said he, Best with the best, the Sender not the sent, Or all at once; more glorie will be wonn, Or less be lost.
Now drew they nigh The western point, where those half-rounding guards Just met, & closing stood in squadron joind Awaiting next command.
Lives ther who loves his pain? Who would not, finding way, break loose from Hell, Though thither doomd?
As when by night the Glass Of _Galileo_, less assur'd, observes Imagind Lands and Regions in the Moon: Or Pilot from amidst the _Cyclades_ _Delos_ or _Samos_ first appeering kenns A cloudy spot.
Like _Maia's_ son he stood, And shook his Plumes, that Heav'nly fragrance filld The circuit wide.
Rais'd of grassie terf Thir Table was, and mossie seats had round, And on her ample Square from side to side All _Autumn_ pil'd, though _Spring_ and _Autumn_ here Danc'd hand in hand.
A while discourse they hold; No fear lest Dinner coole; when thus began Our Authour.
But think not here To trouble Holy Rest; Heav'n casts thee out From all her Confines.
Nor think thou with wind Of airie threats to aw whom yet with deeds Thou canst not.
Sense of pleasure we may well Spare out of life perhaps, and not repine, But live content, which is the calmest life: But pain is perfet miserie, the worst Of evils, and excessive, overturnes All patience.
God saw the Light was good; And light from darkness by the Hemisphere Divided: Light the Day, and Darkness Night He nam'd.
Hee leading swiftly rowld In tangles, and make intricate seem strait, To mischief swift.
But if Death Bind us with after-bands, what profits then Our inward freedom?
In the day we eate Of this fair Fruit, our doom is, we shall die. How dies the Serpent? hee hath eat'n and lives, And knows, and speaks, and reasons, and discernes, Irrational till then.
How shall I behold the face Henceforth of God or Angel, earst with joy And rapture so oft beheld? those heav'nly shapes Will dazle now this earthly, with thir blaze Insufferably bright.
I miss thee here, Not pleas'd, thus entertaind with solitude, Where obvious dutie erewhile appear'd unsaught: Or come I less conspicuous, or what change Absents thee, or what chance detains?
Thus was th' applause they meant, Turnd to exploding hiss, triumph to shame Cast on themselves from thir own mouths.
Next, to the Son, Destin'd restorer of Mankind, by whom New Heav'n and Earth shall to the Ages rise, Or down from Heav'n descend.
Such was thir song, While the Creator calling forth by name His mightie Angels gave them several charge, As sorted best with present things.
The Sun Had first his precept so to move, so shine, As might affect the Earth with cold and heat Scarce tollerable, and from the North to call Decrepit Winter, from the South to bring Solstitial summers heat.
How can he exercise Wrath without end on Man whom Death must end? Can he make deathless Death? that were to make Strange contradiction, which to God himself Impossible is held, as Argument Of weakness, not of Power.
Ah, why should all mankind For one mans fault thus guiltless be condemn'd, If guiltless?
But from mee what can proceed, But all corrupt, both Mind and Will deprav'd, Not to do onely, but to will the same With me? how can they acquitted stand In sight of God?
Why comes not Death, Said hee, with one thrice acceptable stroke To end me?
To which our Sire. Alas, both for the deed and for the cause! But have I now seen Death?
Is this the way I must return to native dust?
O sight Of terrour, foul and ugly to behold, Horrid to think, how horrible to feel! To whom thus _Michael_.
Can thus Th' Image of God in man created once So goodly and erect, though faultie since, To such unsightly sufferings be debas't Under inhuman pains?
Each is distinguished by its own special characteristics.
The Tale consists simply in the narration of a story either founded on facts, or created solely by the imagination, and not necessarily associated with the teaching of any moral lesson.
The Parable is the designed use of language purposely intended to convey a hidden and secret meaning other than that contained in the words themselves; and which may or may not bear a special reference to the hearer, or reader.
The Fable partly agrees with, and partly differs from both of these.
The true fabulist, therefore, discharges a most important function.
He is neither a narrator, nor an allegorist.
He is a great teacher, a corrector of morals, a censor of vice, and a commender of virtue.
In this consists the superiority of the Fable over the Tale or the Parable.
The fabulist is to create a laugh, but yet, under a merry guise, to convey instruction.
The fable," says Professor K.
Mueller, "originated in Greece in an intentional travestie of human affairs.
The Fox should be always cunning, the Hare timid, the Lion bold, the Wolf cruel, the Bull strong, the Horse proud, and the Ass patient.
Many of these fables are characterized by the strictest observance of these rules.
They are occupied with one short narrative, from which the moral naturally flows, and with which it is intimately associated.
Tis the simple manner," says Dodsley,[2] "in which the morals of AEsop are interwoven with his fables that distinguishes him, and gives him the preference over all other mythologists.
His 'Mountain delivered of a Mouse,' produces the moral of his fable in ridicule of pompous pretenders; and his Crow, when she drops her cheese, lets fall, as it were by accident, the strongest admonition against the power of flattery.
Many of them lack that unity of design, that close connection of the moral with the narrative, that wise choice in the introduction of the animals, which constitute the charm and excellency of true AEsopian fable.
This inferiority of some to others is sufficiently accounted for in the history of the origin and descent of these fables.
The great bulk of them are not the immediate work of AEsop.
Many are obtained from ancient authors prior to the time in which he lived.
Demetrius Phalereus, a philosopher at Athens about 300 B.C., is said to have made the first collection of these fables.
Phaedrus, a slave by birth or by subsequent misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honours of a freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about the commencement of the Christian era.
Aphthonius, a rhetorician of Antioch, A.D.
315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some of these fables.
This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both in these and in later times.
Ausonius,[9] the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.
Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.
Little is known of his history.
Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.
He took an active part in public affairs.
In 1327 A.D. he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.
This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.
The truth lies between these two extremes.
These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.
They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.
In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia AEsopica.
This was a noble effort to do honour to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of AEsopian fables ever yet published.
This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum AEsopicarum;" and to his labours AEsop owes his restoration to universal favour as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.
During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than AEsop's Fables.
They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.
It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.
Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of AEsopian Fables.
He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.
He is placed, by one critic,[14] as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.
250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.
235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.
At whatever time he wrote his version of AEsop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.
Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.
Dr. Bentley[18] met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon. Mr. Charles Boyle,[19] afterwards Earl of Orrery.
Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.
The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr. Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits.
1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic metre found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.
Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS. contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.
In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject.
A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS. of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St. Gall A.D.
M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M.
This MS. was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.
The Fables thus recovered were soon published.
The first of these deviates so very far from the text, that it degenerates into a parody.
The fables are so padded, diluted, and altered, as to give very little idea to the reader either of the terseness or the meaning of the original.
The Publishers trust to vindicate, on another ground, their claims to a share of public patronage.
He has already within the last few months been connected with one edition of AEsop, and it may seem strange that he should be willing to undertake the superintendence of another.
His answer is, that the two works on which he has been engaged were totally distinct, and entirely independent of each other.
The first was a request to furnish new morals and applications to a definite number of fables; Ihe other was a commission to add a large number of additional fables and to make a wholly new translation.
The necessity of a new and improved translation the Editor then recognized, and would have willingly undertaken.
Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae AEsopeae.
E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit. George Cornewall Lewis.
London: Parker, 1857. Mythologica AEsopica.
Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae AEsopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.
Lipsiae, 1851 Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.
1822. GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND LIFE OF AESOP The Life and History of AEsop is involved, like that of Homer, the most famous of Greek poets, in much obscurity.
Sardis, the capital of Lydia; Samos, a Greek island; Mesembria, an ancient colony in Thrace; and Cotiaeum, the chief city of a province of Phrygia, contend for the distinction of being the birthplace of AEsop.
Although the honour thus claimed cannot be definitely assigned to any one of these places, yet there are a few incidents now generally accepted by scholars as established facts, relating to the birth, life, and death of AEsop.
He is, by an almost universal consent, allowed to have been born about the year 620 B.C., and to have been by birth a slave.
He was owned by two masters in succession, both inhabitants of Samos, Xanthus and Jadmon, the latter of whom gave him his liberty as a reward for his learning and wit.
The Phrygian has spoken better than all." On the invitation of Croesus he fixed his residence at Sardis, and was employed by that monarch in various difficult and delicate affairs of State.
In his discharge of these commissions he visited the different petty republics of Greece.
Having been sent to Delphi with a large sum of gold for distribution among the citizens, he was so provoked at their covetousness that he refused to divide the money, and sent it back to his master.
The Delphians, enraged at this treatment, accused him of impiety, and, in spite of his sacred character as ambassador, executed him as a public criminal.
This cruel death of AEsop was not unavenged.
Neither did the great fabulist lack posthumous honours; for a statue was erected to his memory at Athens, the work of Lysippus, one of the most famous of Greek sculptors.
They were first brought to light, after a patient search and diligent perusal of ancient authors, by a Frenchman, M.
Claude Gaspard Bachet de Mezeriac, who declined the honour of being tutor to Louis XIII. of France, from his desire to devote himself exclusively to literature.
He published his Life of AEsop, Anno Domini 1632.
The later investigations of a host of English and German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M.
The substantial truth of his statements has been confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.
It remains to state, that prior to this publication of M.
His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of AEsop.
Rising up angrily, he caught him and was about to kill him, when the Mouse piteously entreated, saying: "If you would only spare my life, I would be sure to repay your kindness.
The Lion laughed and let him go.
It happened shortly after this that the Lion was caught by some hunters, who bound him by strong ropes to the ground.
He thus addressed him: "Sirrah, last year you grossly insulted me.
Indeed," bleated the Lamb in a mournful tone of voice, "I was not then born.
Then said the Wolf, "You feed in my pasture.
No, good sir," replied the Lamb, "I have not yet tasted grass.
Again said the Wolf, "You drink of my well.
No," exclaimed the Lamb, "I never yet drank water, for as yet my mother's milk is both food and drink to me.
Upon which the Wolf seized him and ate him up, saying, "Well!
I won't remain supperless, even though you refute every one of my imputations.
When he failed to heal their disputes by his exhortations, he determined to give them a practical illustration of the evils of disunion; and for this purpose he one day told them to bring him a bundle of sticks.
When they had done so, he placed the faggot into the hands of each of them in succession, and ordered them to break it in pieces.
The Weasel refused, saying that he was by nature the enemy of all birds.
The Bat assured him that he was not a bird, but a mouse, and thus was set free.
Shortly afterwards the Bat again fell to the ground and was caught by another Weasel, whom he likewise entreated not to eat him.
The Weasel said that he had a special hostility to mice.
I would rather have one barleycorn than all the jewels in the world." The Swallow and the Crow THE SWALLOW and the Crow had a contention about their plumage.
He was neither wrathful, cruel, nor tyrannical, but just and gentle as a king could be.
The Hare said, "Oh, how I have longed to see this day, in which the weak shall take their place with impunity by the side of the strong.
And after the Hare said this, he ran for his life. The Traveler and His Dog A TRAVELER about to set out on a journey saw his Dog stand at the door stretching himself.
He asked him sharply: "Why do you stand there gaping?
Everything is ready but you, so come with me instantly.
The Dog, wagging his tail, replied: "O, master!
A Grasshopper, perishing with famine, passed by and earnestly begged for a little food.
The Ants inquired of him, "Why did you not treasure up food during the summer?
He replied, "I had not leisure enough.
I passed the days in singing.
The Hare, believing her assertion to be simply impossible, assented to the proposal; and they agreed that the Fox should choose the course and fix the goal.
On the day appointed for the race the two started together.
The Tortoise never for a moment stopped, but went on with a slow but steady pace straight to the end of the course.
The Hare, lying down by the wayside, fell fast asleep.
One day he met a friend, a Fuller, and entreated him to come and live with him, saying that they should be far better neighbors and that their housekeeping expenses would be lessened.
The Fuller replied, "The arrangement is impossible as far as I am concerned, for whatever I should whiten, you would immediately blacken again with your charcoal." Like will draw like. The Boy Hunting Locusts A BOY was hunting for locusts.
He had caught a goodly number, when he saw a Scorpion, and mistaking him for a locust, reached out his hand to take him.
Standing on a projecting rock, he played several tunes in the hope that the fish, attracted by his melody, would of their own accord dance into his net, which he had placed below.
At last, having long waited in vain, he laid aside his flute, and casting his net into the sea, made an excellent haul of fish.
He immediately let go of his own, and fiercely attacked the other Dog to get his larger piece from him.
The rustic driver, stupefied and aghast, stood looking at the wagon, and did nothing but utter loud cries to Hercules to come and help him.
Hercules, it is said, appeared and thus addressed him: "Put your shoulders to the wheels, my man.
In the desire to prove to him his mistake, his Mother placed before him a few grains of frankincense, and asked, "What is it?
The young Mole said, "It is a pebble.
After a long and fruitless search, he made a vow that, if he could only discover the thief who had stolen the Calf, he would offer a lamb in sacrifice to Hermes, Pan, and the Guardian Deities of the forest.
Not long afterwards, as he ascended a small hillock, he saw at its foot a Lion feeding on the Calf.
They had not proceeded far when they met a Lion.
The Fox, seeing imminent danger, approached the Lion and promised to contrive for him the capture of the Ass if the Lion would pledge his word not to harm the Fox.
Then, upon assuring the Ass that he would not be injured, the Fox led him to a deep pit and arranged that he should fall into it.
Their feet, however, became so smeared with the honey that they could not use their wings, nor release themselves, and were suffocated.
They rushed clamorously into the presence of the Lioness and demanded of her the settlement of the dispute.
And you," they said, "how many sons have you at a birth?
The Lioness laughed at them, and said: "Why!
I have only one; but that one is altogether a thoroughbred Lion." The value is in the worth, not in the number. The Farmer and the Snake ONE WINTER a Farmer found a Snake stiff and frozen with cold.
He had compassion on it, and taking it up, placed it in his bosom.
The Snake was quickly revived by the warmth, and resuming its natural instincts, bit its benefactor, inflicting on him a mortal wound.
Oh," cried the Farmer with his last breath, "I am rightly served for pitying a scoundrel." The greatest kindness will not bind the ungrateful. The Man and the Lion A MAN and a Lion traveled together through the forest.
They soon began to boast of their respective superiority to each other in strength and prowess.
As they were disputing, they passed a statue carved in stone, which represented "a Lion strangled by a Man.
The traveler pointed to it and said: "See there!
How strong we are, and how we prevail over even the king of beasts.
The Lion replied: "This statue was made by one of you men.
With them he trapped a Stork that had fractured his leg in the net and was earnestly beseeching the Farmer to spare his life.
Pray save me, Master," he said, "and let me go free this once.
My broken limb should excite your pity.
Besides, I am no Crane, I am a Stork, a bird of excellent character; and see how I love and slave for my father and mother.
Look too, at my feathers-they are not the least like those of a Crane.
Loud groans and noises were heard, and crowds of people came from all parts to see what was the matter.
An Eagle, hovering near, heard her lamentation and demanded what reward she would give him if he would take her aloft and float her in the air.
I will give you," she said, "all the riches of the Red Sea.
Concealing his sad plight under a merry guise, the Fox indulged in a lavish praise of the water, saying it was excellent beyond measure, and encouraging him to descend.
The Goat, mindful only of his thirst, thoughtlessly jumped down, but just as he drank, the Fox informed him of the difficulty they were both in and suggested a scheme for their common escape.
If," said he, "you will place your forefeet upon the wall and bend your head, I will run up your back and escape, and will help you out afterwards.
The Goat readily assented and the Fox leaped upon his back.
Steadying himself with the Goat's horns, he safely reached the mouth of the well and made off as fast as he could.
When the Goat upbraided him for breaking his promise, he turned around and cried out, "You foolish old fellow!
Not supposing it to be only a picture, she flew towards it with a loud whir and unwittingly dashed against the signboard, jarring herself terribly.
We bear all the labor, and we, not you, ought to cry out." Those who suffer most cry out the least. The Farmer and the Cranes SOME CRANES made their feeding grounds on some plowlands newly sown with wheat.
The Farmer, on seeing this, charged his sling with stones, and killed a great number.
He returned to his den, and lying down there, pretended to be sick, taking care that his sickness should be publicly known.
The beasts expressed their sorrow, and came one by one to his den, where the Lion devoured them.
After many of the beasts had thus disappeared, the Fox discovered the trick and presenting himself to the Lion, stood on the outside of the cave, at a respectful distance, and asked him how he was.
I am very middling," replied the Lion, "but why do you stand without?
Pray enter within to talk with me.
No, thank you," said the Fox.
One of them climbed up quickly into a tree and concealed himself in the branches.
The Bear soon left him, for it is said he will not touch a dead body.
When he was quite gone, the other Traveler descended from the tree, and jocularly inquired of his friend what it was the Bear had whispered in his ear.
He gave me this advice," his companion replied.
He accused him of being a nuisance to men by crowing in the nighttime and not permitting them to sleep.
The Cock defended himself by saying that he did this for the benefit of men, that they might rise in time for their labours.
Encased in the skin of a sheep, he pastured with the flock deceiving the shepherd by his costume.
In the evening he was shut up by the shepherd in the fold; the gate was closed, and the entrance made thoroughly secure.
He whistled and sounded his horn in vain; the straggler paid no attention to the summons.
At last the Goatherd threw a stone, and breaking its horn, begged the Goat not to tell his master.
One of the bystanders interrupted him, saying: "Now, my good man, if this be all true there is no need of witnesses.
Suppose this to be Rhodes, and leap for us." The Lion in Love A LION demanded the daughter of a woodcutter in marriage.
The Father, unwilling to grant, and yet afraid to refuse his request, hit upon this expedient to rid himself of his importunities.
He expressed his willingness to accept the Lion as the suitor of his daughter on one condition: that he should allow him to extract his teeth, and cut off his claws, as his daughter was fearfully afraid of both.
The Lion cheerfully assented to the proposal.
One of his workmen observed his frequent visits to the spot and decided to watch his movements.
He soon discovered the secret of the hidden treasure, and digging down, came to the lump of gold, and stole it.
The Miser, on his next visit, found the hole empty and began to tear his hair and to make loud lamentations.
A neighbor, seeing him overcome with grief and learning the cause, said, "Pray do not grieve so; but go and take a stone, and place it in the hole, and fancy that the gold is still lying there.
On one occasion the shepherd laid hold of him, when he grunted, and squeaked, and resisted violently.
The Sheep and the Goat complained of his distressing cries, and said, "He often handles us, and we do not cry out.
To this he replied, "Your handling and mine are very different things.
He catches you only for your wool, or your milk, but he lays hold on me for my very life." The Boy and the Filberts A BOY put his hand into a pitcher full of filberts.
He grasped as many as he could possibly hold, but when he tried to pull out his hand, he was prevented from doing so by the neck of the pitcher.
Unwilling to lose his filberts, and yet unable to withdraw his hand, he burst into tears and bitterly lamented his disappointment.
Perceiving their simplicity, he cast down a huge log into the lake.
After some time they began to think themselves ill-treated in the appointment of so inert a Ruler, and sent a second deputation to Jupiter to pray that he would set over them another sovereign.
He then gave them an Eel to govern them.
When the Frogs discovered his easy good nature, they sent yet a third time to Jupiter to beg him to choose for them still another King.
Grieving over his loss, the Father resolved to kill the Snake.
The next day, when it came out of its hole for food, he took up his axe, but by swinging too hastily, missed its head and cut off only the end of its tail.
A Mouse ran over his mane and ears and woke him from his slumbers. He rose up and shook himself in great wrath, and searched every corner of his den to find the Mouse.
A Fox seeing him said: "A fine Lion you are, to be frightened of a Mouse.
The Ass, as long as he traveled along the plain, carried his load with ease, but when he began to ascend the steep path of the mountain, felt his load to be more than he could bear.
He entreated his companion to relieve him of a small portion, that he might carry home the rest; but the Mule paid no attention to the request.
The Ass was left in a stable and had plenty of oats and hay to eat, just as any other Ass would.
The Lapdog knew many tricks and was a great favourite with his master, who often fondled him and seldom went out to dine without bringing him home some tidbit to eat.
The Ass, on the contrary, had much work to do in grinding the corn-mill and in carrying wood from the forest or burdens from the farm.
He next tried to jump about his master as he had seen the Lapdog do, but he broke the table and smashed all the dishes upon it to atoms.
He then attempted to lick his master, and jumped upon his back.
The servants, hearing the strange hubbub and perceiving the danger of their master, quickly relieved him, and drove out the Ass to his stable with kicks and clubs and cuffs.
The Ass, as he returned to his stall beaten nearly to death, thus lamented: "I have brought it all on myself!
They assembled on a certain day to carry out their purpose, and sharpened their horns for the contest.
But one of them who was exceedingly old (for many a field had he plowed) thus spoke: "These Butchers, it is true, slaughter us, but they do so with skillful hands, and with no unnecessary pain.
Wolf!" and when his neighbors came to help him, laughed at them for their pains. The Wolf, however, did truly come at last.
The Shepherd-boy, now really alarmed, shouted in an agony of terror: "Pray, do come and help me; the Wolf is killing the sheep;" but no one paid any heed to his cries, nor rendered any assistance.
His road home lay across a stream into which his Ass, making a false step, fell by accident and rose up again with his load considerably lighter, as the water melted the sack.
The Peddler retraced his steps and refilled his panniers with a larger quantity of salt than before.
When he came again to the stream, the Ass fell down on purpose in the same spot, and, regaining his feet with the weight of his load much diminished, brayed triumphantly as if he had obtained what he desired.
The Peddler saw through his trick and drove him for the third time to the coast, where he bought a cargo of sponges instead of salt.
The Ass, again playing the fool, fell down on purpose when he reached the stream, but the sponges became swollen with water, greatly increasing his load.
And thus his trick recoiled on him, for he now carried on his back a double burden. The Mischievous Dog A DOG used to run up quietly to the heels of everyone he met, and to bite them without notice.
One day an old hound said to him: "Why do you make such an exhibition of yourself?
The next day it snowed very hard, so that he could not take the herd to their usual feeding places, but was obliged to keep them in the fold.
He gave his own goats just sufficient food to keep them alive, but fed the strangers more abundantly in the hope of enticing them to stay with him and of making them his own.
When the thaw set in, he led them all out to feed, and the Wild Goats scampered away as fast as they could to the mountains.
The Goatherd scolded them for their ingratitude in leaving him, when during the storm he had taken more care of them than of his own herd.
One of them was young, and the other well advanced in years.
The elder woman, ashamed to be courted by a man younger than herself, made a point, whenever her admirer visited her, to pull out some portion of his black hairs.
The younger, on the contrary, not wishing to become the wife of an old man, was equally zealous in removing every gray hair she could find.
He ran home and told his Mother, saying, "Although it hurts me very much, I only touched it gently.
That was just why it stung you," said his Mother.
One evening, as he wandered through the suburbs with his whole attention fixed on the sky, he fell accidentally into a deep well.
Those evil-disposed Dogs have much to answer for.
They always bark whenever we approach you and attack us before we have done any harm.
He knocked at the door and inquired of the inmates how they all did, saying that if they were ill, he would be happy to prescribe for them and cure them.
The Wolf, looking up, said, "Sirrah!
And when he had got all she had, he healed her and demanded the promised payment.
The Old Woman, when she recovered her sight and saw none of her goods in her house, would give him nothing.
The Physician insisted on his claim, and, as she still refused, summoned her before the Judge.
Now he declares that I am healed.
The Mother coming up, and missing one of her sons, inquired of his brothers what had become of him.
He is dead, dear Mother; for just now a very huge beast with four great feet came to the pool and crushed him to death with his cloven heel.
The sons, after his death, took their spades and mattocks and carefully dug over every portion of their land.
But when he was compelled to grind instead of serving in the wars, he bewailed his change of fortune and called to mind his former state, saying, "Ah!
Miller, I had indeed to go campaigning before, but I was barbed from counter to tail, and a man went along to groom me; and now I cannot understand what ailed me to prefer the mill before the battle.
As long as the war lasted, he looked upon him as his fellow-helper in all emergencies and fed him carefully with hay and corn.
But when the war was over, he only allowed him chaff to eat and made him carry heavy loads of wood, subjecting him to much slavish drudgery and ill-treatment.
War was again proclaimed, however, and when the trumpet summoned him to his standard, the Soldier put on his charger its military trappings, and mounted, being clad in his heavy coat of mail.
The Members carried out their resolve and refused their assistance to the Belly.
A Goat, passing by, nibbled its young tendrils and its leaves.
The Vine addressed him and said: "Why do you thus injure me without a cause, and crop my leaves?
Is there no young grass left?
The Monkey came with the rest and presented, with all a mother's tenderness, a flat-nosed, hairless, ill-featured young Monkey as a candidate for the promised reward.
A general laugh saluted her on the presentation of her son.
When the battle was at its height, a Sprat lifted its head out of the waves and said that he would reconcile their differences if they would accept him as an umpire.
A Serpent gliding past the nest from its hole in the wall ate up the young unfledged nestlings.
It is far more becoming to go straight forward.
The young Crab replied: "Quite true, dear Mother; and if you will show me the straight way, I will promise to walk in it.
After a time he went to the daughter who had married the gardener, and inquired how she was and how all things went with her.
She said, "All things are prospering with me, and I have only one wish, that there may be a heavy fall of rain, in order that the plants may be well watered.
She not only abstained from beating him, but encouraged him.
He next time stole a cloak and brought it to her, and she again commended him.
The Youth, advanced to adulthood, proceeded to steal things of still greater value.
At last he was caught in the very act, and having his hands bound behind him, was led away to the place of public execution.
His Mother followed in the crowd and violently beat her breast in sorrow, whereupon the young man said, "I wish to say something to my Mother in her ear.
She came close to him, and he quickly seized her ear with his teeth and bit it off.
He sat down by the wayside, and throwing down his load, besought "Death" to come.
Death" immediately appeared in answer to his summons and asked for what reason he had called him.
On bringing him home he resorted to every means of cleaning, and subjected the man to incessant scrubbings.
The Frog, one day intent on mischief, bound the foot of the Mouse tightly to his own.
Thus joined together, the Frog first of all led his friend the Mouse to the meadow where they were accustomed to find their food.
After this, he gradually led him towards the pool in which he lived, until reaching the very brink, he suddenly jumped in, dragging the Mouse with him.
The Frog enjoyed the water amazingly, and swam croaking about, as if he had done a good deed.
The unhappy Mouse was soon suffocated by the water, and his dead body floated about on the surface, tied to the foot of the Frog.
A Hawk observed it, and, pouncing upon it with his talons, carried it aloft.
She greedily placed it several times to her nose, and drawing it backwards and forwards said, "O most delicious!
A friend, meeting him and learning what he wanted, said, "If you would be cured, take a piece of bread, and dip it in the blood from your wound, and go and give it to the Dog that bit you.
The Man who had been bitten laughed at this advice and said, "Why?
They quickly agreed to exchange the produce of their day's sport.
Each was so well pleased with his bargain that they made for some time the same exchange day after day.
A Fox, seeing this, longed to possess the meat himself, and by a wily stratagem succeeded.
How handsome is the Crow," he exclaimed, "in the beauty of her shape and in the fairness of her complexion!
Oh, if her voice were only equal to her beauty, she would deservedly be considered the Queen of Birds!
This he said deceitfully; but the Crow, anxious to refute the reflection cast upon her voice, set up a loud caw and dropped the flesh.
The Fox quickly picked it up, and thus addressed the Crow: "My good Crow, your voice is right enough, but your wit is wanting." The Widow and the Sheep A CERTAIN poor widow had one solitary Sheep.
At shearing time, wishing to take his fleece and to avoid expense, she sheared him herself, but used the shears so unskillfully that with the fleece she sheared the flesh.
The Sheep, writhing with pain, said, "Why do you hurt me so, Mistress?
What weight can my blood add to the wool?
The owner went up after him and quickly drove him down, beating him severely with a thick wooden cudgel.
An Ox gave him this kindly warning: "O unhappy creature! why should you thus, of your own accord, incur destruction and trust yourself in the house of your enemy?
The Stag replied: "Only allow me, friend, to stay where I am, and I will undertake to find some favourable opportunity of effecting my escape.
At the approach of the evening the herdsman came to feed his cattle, but did not see the Stag; and even the farm-bailiff with several laborers passed through the shed and failed to notice him.
The Stag, congratulating himself on his safety, began to express his sincere thanks to the Oxen who had kindly helped him in the hour of need.
One of them again answered him: "We indeed wish you well, but the danger is not over.
There is one other yet to pass through the shed, who has as it were a hundred eyes, and until he has come and gone, your life is still in peril.
At that moment the master himself entered, and having had to complain that his oxen had not been properly fed, he went up to their racks and cried out: "Why is there such a scarcity of fodder?
There is not half enough straw for them to lie on.
Those lazy fellows have not even swept the cobwebs away.
While he thus examined everything in turn, he spied the tips of the antlers of the Stag peeping out of the straw.
Then summoning his laborers, he ordered that the Stag should be seized and killed. The Two Dogs A MAN had two dogs: a Hound, trained to assist him in his sports, and a Housedog, taught to watch the house.
The Lion agreed to assist the Wild Ass with his strength, while the Wild Ass gave the Lion the benefit of his greater speed.
When they had taken as many beasts as their necessities required, the Lion undertook to distribute the prey, and for this purpose divided it into three shares.
The Dolphin gladly consented to this request.
Not long afterwards the Lion had a combat with a wild bull, and called on the Dolphin to help him.
The Dolphin, though quite willing to give him assistance, was unable to do so, as he could not by any means reach the land.
The Lion abused him as a traitor.
An archer, who saw the Eagle from a place of concealment, took an accurate aim and wounded him mortally.
The Eagle gave one look at the arrow that had entered his heart and saw in that single glance that its feathers had been furnished by himself.
They fiercely disputed which of them should drink first, and were soon engaged in the agonies of a mortal combat.
When they stopped suddenly to catch their breath for a fiercer renewal of the fight, they saw some Vultures waiting in the distance to feast on the one that should fall first.
She turned her sound eye towards the land that she might get the earliest tidings of the approach of hunter or hound, and her injured eye towards the sea, from whence she entertained no anticipation of danger.
Some boatmen sailing by saw her, and taking a successful aim, mortally wounded her.
The Weasels were always the victors.
The Mice thought that the cause of their frequent defeats was that they had no leaders set apart from the general army to command them, and that they were exposed to dangers from lack of discipline.
He sold all his flock, invested it in a cargo of dates, and set sail.
But a very great tempest came on, and the ship being in danger of sinking, he threw all his merchandise overboard, and barely escaped with his life in the empty ship.
He was about to spring upon the Ass, when the Cock (to the sound of whose voice the Lion, it is said, has a singular aversion) crowed loudly, and the Lion fled away as fast as he could.
The Ass, observing his trepidation at the mere crowing of a Cock summoned courage to attack him, and galloped after him for that purpose.
The money for which this milk will be sold, will buy at least three hundred eggs.
The eggs, allowing for all mishaps, will produce two hundred and fifty chickens.
The chickens will become ready for the market when poultry will fetch the highest price, so that by the end of the year I shall have money enough from my share to buy a new gown.
In this dress I will go to the Christmas parties, where all the young fellows will propose to me, but I will toss my head and refuse them every one.
He thus answered the Bee: "You shall have your request, but it will be at the peril of your own life.
A Bricklayer earnestly recommended bricks as affording the best material for an effective resistance.
A Carpenter, with equal enthusiasm, proposed timber as a preferable method of defense.
As he passed along, the crowd made lowly prostration before the Image.
The Ass, thinking that they bowed their heads in token of respect for himself, bristled up with pride, gave himself airs, and refused to move another step.
The storm still continuing, he was obliged to slaughter his yoke oxen for food.
He seized him boldly by the ear, but could not retain his hold because of the decay of his teeth, so that the boar escaped.
His master, quickly coming up, was very much disappointed, and fiercely abused the dog.
The Hound looked up and said, "It was not my fault master: my spirit was as good as ever, but I could not help my infirmities.
I rather deserve to be praised for what I have been, than to be blamed for what I am." The Two Travelers and the Axe TWO MEN were journeying together.
One of them picked up an axe that lay upon the path, and said, "I have found an axe.
Nay, my friend," replied the other, "do not say 'I,' but 'We' have found an axe.
They had not gone far before they saw the owner of the axe pursuing them, and he who had picked up the axe said, "We are undone.
Nay," replied the other, "keep to your first mode of speech, my friend; what you thought right then, think right now.
Say 'I,' not 'We' are undone." He who shares the danger ought to share the prize. The Old Lion A LION, worn out with years and powerless from disease, lay on the ground at the point of death.
A Boar rushed upon him, and avenged with a stroke of his tusks a long-remembered injury.
Shortly afterwards the Bull with his horns gored him as if he were an enemy.
When the Ass saw that the huge beast could be assailed with impunity, he let drive at his forehead with his heels.
The day being intensely hot, and the sun shining in its strength, the Traveler stopped to rest, and sought shelter from the heat under the Shadow of the Ass.
As this afforded only protection for one, and as the Traveler and the owner of the Ass both claimed it, a violent dispute arose between them as to which of them had the right to the Shadow.
The owner maintained that he had let the Ass only, and not his Shadow.
The Traveler asserted that he had, with the hire of the Ass, hired his Shadow also.
Jupiter, after warning him that he would repent his request, caused him to be sold to a tile-maker.
Shortly afterwards, finding that he had heavier loads to carry and harder work in the brick-field, he petitioned for another change of master.
For this purpose he assumed the character of a man and visited in this disguise a Sculptor's studio having looked at various statues, he demanded the price of two figures of Jupiter and Juno.
The Woodcutter advised him to take shelter in his own hut, so the Fox crept in and hid himself in a corner.
The huntsman soon came up with his hounds and inquired of the Woodcutter if he had seen the Fox.
He declared that he had not seen him, and yet pointed, all the time he was speaking, to the hut where the Fox lay hidden.
The huntsman took no notice of the signs, but believing his word, hastened forward in the chase.
The Farmer, wishing to catch him, shut the gate.
When the Lion found that he could not escape, he flew upon the sheep and killed them, and then attacked the oxen.
The Farmer, beginning to be alarmed for his own safety, opened the gate and released the Lion.
A Lion met him in the path, and seizing the lamb, took it from him.
Standing at a safe distance, the Wolf exclaimed, "You have unrighteously taken that which was mine from me!
To which the Lion jeeringly replied, "It was righteously yours, eh?
The bird entreated earnestly for his life: "What would you do without me when next you spread your nets?
Who would chirp you to sleep, or call for you the covey of answering birds?
The Birdcatcher spared his life, and determined to pick out a fine young Cock just attaining to his comb.
But the Cock expostulated in piteous tones from his perch: "If you kill me, who will announce to you the appearance of the dawn?
Who will wake you to your daily tasks or tell you when it is time to visit the bird-trap in the morning?
He replied, "What you say is true.
You are a capital bird at telling the time of day.
A Dove sitting on a tree overhanging the water plucked a leaf and let it fall into the stream close to her.
The Ant climbed onto it and floated in safety to the bank.
Shortly afterwards a birdcatcher came and stood under the tree, and laid his lime-twigs for the Dove, which sat in the branches.
The Ant, perceiving his design, stung him in the foot.
As they scampered off in large numbers to carry out their resolve, the Frogs lying on the banks of the lake heard the noise of their feet and rushed helter-skelter to the deep water for safety.
The Fishermen after a while gave up fishing, and on going home to dinner left their nets upon the bank.
The Monkey, who is the most imitative of animals, descended from the treetop and endeavored to do as they had done.
Having handled the net, he threw it into the river, but became tangled in the meshes and drowned.
He fed the one for his table and kept the other for the sake of its song.
When the time came for killing the Goose, the cook went to get him at night, when it was dark, and he was not able to distinguish one bird from the other.
By mistake he caught the Swan instead of the Goose.
The Lion concealed himself on seeing her approach, but when she was safe within the cave, sprang upon her and tore her to pieces.
The Fish, panting convulsively, thus entreated for his life: "O Sir, what good can I be to you, and how little am I worth?
I am not yet come to my full size. Pray spare my life, and put me back into the sea.
I shall soon become a large fish fit for the tables of the rich, and then you can catch me again, and make a handsome profit of me.
He asked a man felling oaks in the forest if he had seen any marks of his footsteps or knew where his lair was.
I will," said the man, "at once show you the Lion himself.
The Hunter, turning very pale and chattering with his teeth from fear, replied, "No, thank you.
When he finished, he was so full that he was not able to get out, and began to groan and lament his fate.
Another Fox passing by heard his cries, and coming up, inquired the cause of his complaining.
When the pool dried up under the summer's heat, they left it and set out together for another home.
The other replied with greater caution, "But suppose the water should fail us.
The poor beast replied, not without a touch of reason: "Why do you ask me?
Is it that the level way through the desert is closed?" The Miller, His Son, and Their Ass A MILLER and his son were driving their Ass to a neighboring fair to sell him.
They had not gone far when they met with a troop of women collected round a well, talking and laughing.
Look there," cried one of them, "did you ever see such fellows, to be trudging along the road on foot when they might ride?
What respect is shown to old age in these days?
Do you see that idle lad riding while his old father has to walk?
Get down, you young scapegrace, and let the old man rest his weary limbs.
Upon this the old man made his son dismount, and got up himself.
The good-natured Miller immediately took up his son behind him.
They had now almost reached the town.
Pray, honest friend," said a citizen, "is that Ass your own?
Yes," replied the old man.
O, one would not have thought so," said the other, "by the way you load him.
Why, you two fellows are better able to carry the poor beast than he you.
Anything to please you," said the old man; "we can but try.
So, alighting with his son, they tied the legs of the Ass together and with the help of a pole endeavored to carry him on their shoulders over a bridge near the entrance to the town.
A Cat, discovering this, made her way into it and began to catch and eat them one by one.
Fearing for their lives, the Mice kept themselves close in their holes.
The Cat was no longer able to get at them and perceived that she must tempt them forth by some device.
For this purpose she jumped upon a peg, and suspending herself from it, pretended to be dead.
But the Mouse reached his hole in safety.
Though the Bull dug into the walls with his horns, he tired before he could rout out the Mouse, and crouching down, went to sleep outside the hole.
The Mouse peeped out, crept furtively up his flank, and again biting him, retreated to his hole.
The Bull rising up, and not knowing what to do, was sadly perplexed.
At which the Mouse said, "The great do not always prevail.
There are times when the small and lowly are the strongest to do mischief." The Dog and the Cook A RICH MAN gave a great feast, to which he invited many friends and acquaintances.
His Dog availed himself of the occasion to invite a stranger Dog, a friend of his, saying, "My master gives a feast, and there is always much food remaining; come and sup with me tonight.
The Dog thus invited went at the hour appointed, and seeing the preparations for so grand an entertainment, said in the joy of his heart, "How glad I am that I came!
I do not often get such a chance as this.
I will take care and eat enough to last me both today and tomorrow.
He fell with force upon the ground and limped away, howling dreadfully.
His yelling soon attracted other street dogs, who came up to him and inquired how he had enjoyed his supper.
He replied, "Why, to tell you the truth, I drank so much wine that I remember nothing.
I do not know how I got out of the house." The Thieves and the Cock SOME THIEVES broke into a house and found nothing but a Cock, whom they stole, and got off as fast as they could.
Upon arriving at home they prepared to kill the Cock, who thus pleaded for his life: "Pray spare me; I am very serviceable to men.
I wake them up in the night to their work.
Being naturally great mimics of men's actions, they showed themselves most apt pupils, and when arrayed in their rich clothes and masks, they danced as well as any of the courtiers.
The spectacle was often repeated with great applause, till on one occasion a courtier, bent on mischief, took from his pocket a handful of nuts and threw them upon the stage.
The Monkeys at the sight of the nuts forgot their dancing and became (as indeed they were) Monkeys instead of actors.
Pulling off their masks and tearing their robes, they fought with one another for the nuts.
The Fox by a strange fatality rushed to the fields of the Farmer who had captured him.
He ran in between them, and seizing the Kid scampered off as fast as he could.
One of them climbed up and stung him, and he immediately trampled them all to death with his foot.
The Eagle did not prove ungrateful to his deliverer, for seeing the Peasant sitting under a wall which was not safe, he flew toward him and with his talons snatched a bundle from his head.
When the Peasant rose in pursuit, the Eagle let the bundle fall again.
The Leopard exhibited one by one the various spots which decorated his skin.
But the Fox, interrupting him, said, "And how much more beautiful than you am I, who am decorated, not in body, but in mind." The Lion and the Hare A LION came across a Hare, who was fast asleep.
He was just in the act of seizing her, when a fine young Hart trotted by, and he left the Hare to follow him.
The Hare, scared by the noise, awoke and scudded away. The Lion was unable after a long chase to catch the Hart, and returned to feed upon the Hare.
Having secured a large booty, the Lion on their return from the forest asked the Ass to allot his due portion to each of the three partners in the treaty.
The Ass carefully divided the spoil into three equal shares and modestly requested the two others to make the first choice.
The Lion, bursting out into a great rage, devoured the Ass.
Then he requested the Fox to do him the favour to make a division.
The Fox accumulated all that they had killed into one large heap and left to himself the smallest possible morsel.
The Lion said, "Who has taught you, my very excellent fellow, the art of division?
You are perfect to a fraction.
As soon as he entered, a He-Goat left in the cave sharply attacked him with his horns.
The Bull quietly addressed him: "Butt away as much as you will.
A sudden puff of wind blew off his hat and wig, at which a loud laugh rang forth from his companions.
The Mother fondles one and nurtures it with the greatest affection and care, but hates and neglects the other.
A goat-herd seeing him stop, mocked him, saying "The little one is the best runner of the two.
Having done so, they found to their surprise that the Hen differed in no respect from their other hens.
The foolish pair, thus hoping to become rich all at once, deprived themselves of the gain of which they were assured day by day. The Ass and the Frogs AN ASS, carrying a load of wood, passed through a pond.
As he was crossing through the water he lost his footing, stumbled and fell, and not being able to rise on account of his load, groaned heavily.
Seeing some travelers approaching, the Crow flew up into a tree, and perching herself on one of the branches, cawed as loudly as she could.
The Trees consented to his request and gave him a young ash-tree.
No sooner had the man fitted a new handle to his axe from it, than he began to use it and quickly felled with his strokes the noblest giants of the forest.
An old oak, lamenting when too late the destruction of his companions, said to a neighboring cedar, "The first step has lost us all.
We differ from you in one point only.
If you will be persuaded by us, you will give us the sheep, and we will enjoy them in common, till we all are surfeited.
The Lion alone challenged him to combat.
The Bowman immediately shot out an arrow and said to the Lion: "I send thee my messenger, that from him thou mayest learn what I myself shall be when I assail thee.
After a time, perceiving the meekness and gentleness of the beast's temper, he summoned courage enough to approach him.
A Fox came across him, and being very hungry ate him up.
He appealed to the Ass to fly with him, lest they should both be captured, but the animal lazily replied, "Why should I, pray?
Do you think it likely the conqueror will place on me two sets of panniers?
A swarm of hungry blood-sucking flies settled upon him.
A Hedgehog, passing by, saw his anguish and inquired if he should drive away the flies that were tormenting him. "By no means," replied the Fox; "pray do not molest them.
How is this?" said the Hedgehog; "do you not want to be rid of them?
She often pondered how she might obtain two eggs daily instead of one, and at last, to gain her purpose, determined to give the Hen a double allowance of barley.
From that day the Hen became fat and sleek, and never once laid another egg. The Kites and the Swans TEE KITES of olden times, as well as the Swans, had the privilege of song.
If you are a friend, why do you bite me so hard?
A young Calf came up, and offered to go before and show him the way by which he could manage to pass.
The Sheep, fearing some fraud was intended, excused herself, saying, "The Wolf is accustomed to seize what he wants and to run off; and you, too, can quickly outstrip me in your rapid flight.
The Cat cunningly resolved to destroy this chance-made colony.
To carry out her design, she climbed to the nest of the Eagle, and said, "Destruction is preparing for you, and for me too, unfortunately.
The Wild Sow, whom you see daily digging up the earth, wishes to uproot the oak, so she may on its fall seize our families as food for her young.
Having instilled these fears into the Sow, she went and pretended to hide herself in the hollow of the tree.
When night came she went forth with silent foot and obtained food for herself and her kittens, but feigning to be afraid, she kept a lookout all through the day.
Meanwhile, the Eagle, full of fear of the Sow, sat still on the branches, and the Sow, terrified by the Eagle, did not dare to go out from her cave.
The Wolf, with a lack of sense proportioned to his enormous size, thought that they gave him this name in earnest, and, leaving his own race, consorted exclusively with the lions.
He sighed heavily and hastened away as fast as he could run.
A neighbor saw him running and said, "Oh! you fellow there! you say you can foretell the fortunes of others; how is it you did not foresee your own?" The Two Frogs TWO FROGS were neighbors.
One inhabited a deep pond, far removed from public view; the other lived in a gully containing little water, and traversed by a country road.
The Frog that lived in the pond warned his friend to change his residence and entreated him to come and live with him, saying that he would enjoy greater safety from danger and more abundant food.
The other refused, saying that he felt it so very hard to leave a place to which he had become accustomed.
The Serpent had the advantage, and was about to strangle the bird.
A countryman saw them, and running up, loosed the coil of the Serpent and let the Eagle go free.
The Serpent, irritated at the escape of his prey, injected his poison into the drinking horn of the countryman.
When he had waited some days in vain, he saw the Innkeeper dressed in a new and handsome coat and sitting before his door.
The Thief sat down beside him and talked with him.
As the conversation began to flag, the Thief yawned terribly and at the same time howled like a wolf.
The Innkeeper said, "Why do you howl so fearfully?
I will tell you," said the Thief, "but first let me ask you to hold my clothes, or I shall tear them to pieces.
The Innkeeper, hearing his tale and believing what he said, became greatly alarmed and, rising from his seat, attempted to run away.
The Thief laid hold of his coat and entreated him to stop, saying, "Pray wait, sir, and hold my clothes, or I shall tear them to pieces in my fury, when I turn into a wolf.
The huntsmen, in their haste, overshot the place of his concealment.
Supposing all danger to have passed, the Hart began to nibble the tendrils of the Vine.
One of the huntsmen, attracted by the rustling of the leaves, looked back, and seeing the Hart, shot an arrow from his bow and struck it.
You can scratch with your claws and bite with your teeth an a woman in her quarrels.
I repeat that I am altogether more powerful than you; and if you doubt it, let us fight and see who will conquer.
The Gnat, having sounded his horn, fastened himself upon the Lion and stung him on the nostrils and the parts of the face devoid of hair.
While trying to crush him, the Lion tore himself with his claws, until he punished himself severely.
The Gnat thus prevailed over the Lion, and, buzzing about in a song of triumph, flew away.
But shortly afterwards he became entangled in the meshes of a cobweb and was eaten by a spider.
She resorted to all her tricks to get at them, but wearied herself in vain, for she could not reach them.
The Walnut-Tree piteously exclaimed, "O wretched me! that those whom I cheer with my fruit should repay me with these painful requitals!" The Kid and the Wolf A KID, returning without protection from the pasture, was pursued by a Wolf.
The Wolf complied, and while he was piping and the Kid was dancing, some hounds hearing the sound ran up and began chasing the Wolf.
As he sailed off the coast of Greece, a violent tempest arose in which the ship was wrecked and he, his Monkey, and all the crew were obliged to swim for their lives.
A Dolphin saw the Monkey contending with the waves, and supposing him to be a man (whom he is always said to befriend), came and placed himself under him, to convey him on his back in safety to the shore.
When the Dolphin arrived with his burden in sight of land not far from Athens, he asked the Monkey if he were an Athenian.
The latter replied that he was, and that he was descended from one of the most noble families in that city.
The Dolphin then inquired if he knew the Piraeus (the famous harbor of Athens). Supposing that a man was meant, the Monkey answered that he knew him very well and that he was an intimate friend.
The Dolphin, indignant at these falsehoods, dipped the Monkey under the water and drowned him. The Horse and the Stag AT ONE TIME the Horse had the plain entirely to himself.
Then a Stag intruded into his domain and shared his pasture.
The Horse, desiring to revenge himself on the stranger, asked a man if he were willing to help him in punishing the Stag.
The man replied that if the Horse would receive a bit in his mouth and agree to carry him, he would contrive effective weapons against the Stag.
The Horse consented and allowed the man to mount him.
The Doves, as long as he was silent, supposed him to be one of themselves and admitted him to their cote.
But when one day he forgot himself and began to chatter, they discovered his true character and drove him forth, pecking him with their beaks.
Failing to obtain food among the Doves, he returned to the Jackdaws.
They too, not recognizing him on account of his color, expelled him from living with them.
So desiring two ends, he obtained neither. The Fox and the Monkey A FOX and a Monkey were traveling together on the same road.
As they journeyed, they passed through a cemetery full of monuments.
All these monuments which you see," said the Monkey, "are erected in honour of my ancestors, who were in their day freedmen and citizens of great renown.
Wishing to find out if she had the same effect on the persons in her father's house, he made some excuse to send her home on a visit to her father.
After a short time she returned, and when he inquired how she had got on and how the servants had treated her, she replied, "The herdsmen and shepherds cast on me looks of aversion.
He received them kindly, lighted a fire, and warmed them.
He let the Horse make free with his oats, gave the Ox an abundance of hay, and fed the Dog with meat from his own table.
Grateful for these favours, the animals determined to repay him to the best of their ability.
For this purpose, they divided the term of his life between them, and each endowed one portion of it with the qualities which chiefly characterized himself.
The Horse chose his earliest years and gave them his own attributes: hence every man is in his youth impetuous, headstrong, and obstinate in maintaining his own opinion.
The Ox took under his patronage the next term of life, and therefore man in his middle age is fond of work, devoted to labor, and resolute to amass wealth and to husband his resources.
He brought with him several slices of meat in order to pacify the Housedog, so that he would not alarm his master by barking.
As the Thief threw him the pieces of meat, the Dog said, "If you think to stop my mouth, you will be greatly mistaken.
One of the Apes, who had raised himself to be king, commanded them to be seized and brought before him, that he might know what was said of him among men.
He ordered at the same time that all the Apes be arranged in a long row on his right hand and on his left, and that a throne be placed for him, as was the custom among men.
After these preparations he signified that the two men should be brought before him, and greeted them with this salutation: "What sort of a king do I seem to you to be, O strangers?
The Lying Traveler replied, "You seem to me a most mighty king.
And what is your estimate of those you see around me?
These," he made answer, "are worthy companions of yourself, fit at least to be ambassadors and leaders of armies.
The Ape and all his court, gratified with the lie, commanded that a handsome present be given to the flatterer.
On this the truthful Traveler thought to himself, "If so great a reward be given for a lie, with what gift may not I be rewarded, if, according to my custom, I tell the truth?
The Ape quickly turned to him.
And pray how do I and these my friends around me seem to you?
Thou art," he said, "a most excellent Ape, and all these thy companions after thy example are excellent Apes too.
On meeting him for the second time, he was still much alarmed, but not to the same extent as at first.
He therefore rolled himself in flour and lay down in a dark corner.
A Mouse, supposing him to be food, leaped upon him, and was instantly caught and squeezed to death.
Another perished in a similar manner, and then a third, and still others after them.
He called out to a passing traveler for help, but instead of holding out a helping hand, the man stood by unconcernedly, and scolded the boy for his imprudence.
The Goddess, to console him, said, "But you far excel in beauty and in size.
The splendor of the emerald shines in your neck and you unfold a tail gorgeous with painted plumage.
But for what purpose have I," said the bird, "this dumb beauty so long as I am surpassed in song?
The lot of each," replied Juno, "has been assigned by the will of the Fates-to thee, beauty; to the eagle, strength; to the nightingale, song; to the raven, favourable, and to the crow, unfavourable auguries.
These are all contented with the endowments allotted to them." The Wolf and the Shepherd A WOLF followed a flock of sheep for a long time and did not attempt to injure one of them.
The Wolf, now that he had the opportunity, fell upon the sheep, and destroyed the greater part of the flock.
One of the bystanders said to him, "My good fellow, why do you sell him, being such a one as you describe, when you may yourself enjoy the good things he has to give?
The Nightingale, about to lose his life, earnestly begged the Hawk to let him go, saying that he was not big enough to satisfy the hunger of a Hawk who, if he wanted food, ought to pursue the larger birds.
One of the young Larks heard his speech and related it to his mother, inquiring of her to what place they should move for safety.
There is no occasion to move yet, my son," she replied; "the man who only sends to his friends to help him with his harvest is not really in earnest.
The owner of the field came again a few days later and saw the wheat shedding the grain from excess of ripeness.
He said, "I will come myself tomorrow with my laborers, and with as many reapers as I can hire, and will get in the harvest.
At nightfall they took shelter in a thick wood.
The Cock flying up, perched himself on the branches of a tree, while the Dog found a bed beneath in the hollow trunk.
When the morning dawned, the Cock, as usual, crowed very loudly several times.
A Fox heard the sound, and wishing to make a breakfast on him, came and stood under the branches, saying how earnestly he desired to make the acquaintance of the owner of so magnificent a voice.
The Wolf, coming up, inquired the cause of his lameness.
The Ass replied that passing through a hedge he had trod with his foot upon a sharp thorn.
He requested that the Wolf pull it out, lest when he ate him it should injure his throat.
The Wolf consented and lifted up the foot, and was giving his whole mind to the discovery of the thorn, when the Ass, with his heels, kicked his teeth into his mouth and galloped away.
The Ass listened to his words, and falling into a ditch, was very much bruised.
His master, sending for a leech, asked his advice.
He bade him pour upon the wounds the lungs of a Goat.
He approached the Bull and said, "I have slain a fine sheep, my friend; and if you will come home and partake of him with me, I shall be delighted to have your company.
The Lion said this in the hope that, as the Bull was in the act of reclining to eat, he might attack him to advantage, and make his meal on him.
The Bull, on approaching the Lion's den, saw the huge spits and giant caldrons, and no sign whatever of the sheep, and, without saying a word, quietly took his departure.
The Lion inquired why he went off so abruptly without a word of salutation to his host, who had not given him any cause for offense.
I have reasons enough," said the Bull.
The Grasshopper refused to desist, and chirped louder and louder the more the Owl entreated.
When she saw that she could get no redress and that her words were despised, the Owl attacked the chatterer by a stratagem.
Since I cannot sleep," she said, "on account of your song which, believe me, is sweet as the lyre of Apollo, I shall indulge myself in drinking some nectar which Pallas lately gave me.
If you do not dislike it, come to me and we will drink it together.
The Grasshopper, who was thirsty, and pleased with the praise of her voice, eagerly flew up.
While thus looking upwards, he unknowingly trod upon a Viper asleep just before his feet.
The Ass, being heavily laden, moved slowly out of the way.
Hardly," said the Horse, "can I resist kicking you with my heels.
The Ass held his peace, and made only a silent appeal to the justice of the gods.
Not long afterwards the Horse, having become broken-winded, was sent by his owner to the farm.
A Lion lay in ambush in the hope of making them his prey, but was afraid to attack them while they kept together.
He called to her and earnestly begged her to come lower down, lest she fall by some mishap; and he added that the meadows lay where he was standing, and that the herbage was most tender.
Why do you not go faster?
See if I do not prick your neck with my sting.
Perceiving them to be very heavy, they danced about for joy and supposed that they had taken a large catch.
I am surrounded by every luxury, and if you will come with me, as I wish you would, you shall have an ample share of my dainties.
The Country Mouse was easily persuaded, and returned to town with his friend.
On his arrival, the Town Mouse placed before him bread, barley, beans, dried figs, honey, raisins, and, last of all, brought a dainty piece of cheese from a basket.
The Country Mouse, being much delighted at the sight of such good cheer, expressed his satisfaction in warm terms and lamented his own hard fate.
Just as they were beginning to eat, someone opened the door, and they both ran off squeaking, as fast as they could, to a hole so narrow that two could only find room in it by squeezing.
They had scarcely begun their repast again when someone else entered to take something out of a cupboard, whereupon the two Mice, more frightened than before, ran away and hid themselves.
At last the Country Mouse, almost famished, said to his friend: "Although you have prepared for me so dainty a feast, I must leave you to enjoy it by yourself.
It is surrounded by too many dangers to please me.
They promised amply to repay him the favour which they asked.
The Partridges declared that they would dig around his vines and make them produce finer grapes.
The Wasps said that they would keep guard and drive off thieves with their stings.
But the Farmer interrupted them, saying: "I have already two oxen, who, without making any promises, do all these things.
While they were playing one day as children, they happened by chance to look together into a mirror that was placed on their mother's chair.
The boy congratulated himself on his good looks; the girl grew angry, and could not bear the self-praises of her Brother, interpreting all he said (and how could she do otherwise?) into reflection on herself.
She ran off to her father, to be avenged on her Brother, and spitefully accused him of having, as a boy, made use of that which belonged only to girls.
The whelp of a Wolf was brought him, with a request that he would feel it, and say what it was.
He felt it, and being in doubt, said: "I do not quite know whether it is the cub of a Fox, or the whelp of a Wolf, but this I know full well.
He sold a drug, pretending that it was an antidote to all poisons, and obtained a great name for himself by long-winded puffs and advertisements.
The Cobbler, under the fear of death, confessed that he had no knowledge of medicine, and was only made famous by the stupid clamors of the crowd.
The Governor then called a public assembly and addressed the citizens: "Of what folly have you been guilty?
It is full of fine oats, which I have left untouched for you, as you are a friend whom I would love to hear enjoying good eating.
A violent storm arose, and with the vessel in great danger of sinking, the one in the stern inquired of the pilot which of the two ends of the ship would go down first.
One day by chance he found a tame Partridge for sale.
He purchased it and brought it home to be reared with his Gamecocks.
When the Partridge was put into the poultry-yard, they struck at it and followed it about, so that the Partridge became grievously troubled and supposed that he was thus evilly treated because he was a stranger.
Not long afterwards he saw the Cocks fighting together and not separating before one had well beaten the other.
All the beasts came to visit their king, except the Fox.
The Wolf therefore, thinking that he had a capital opportunity, accused the Fox to the Lion of not paying any respect to him who had the rule over them all and of not coming to visit him.
At that very moment the Fox came in and heard these last words of the Wolf.
The Lion commanded him immediately to tell him the cure, when he replied, "You must flay a wolf alive and wrap his skin yet warm around you.
However when the summer returned again, he lay asleep stretched at his full length and appeared to himself to be of a great size.
But when rescued from his danger, he forgot his promise.
Shortly afterwards, again caught in a snare, he passed by Apollo and made the same promise to offer frankincense to Mercury.
The soup fell out of the long bill of the Crane at every mouthful, and his vexation at not being able to eat afforded the Fox much amusement.
Ought I not to be acknowledged as King of all the collected beasts?
While he was indulging in these proud thoughts, a Lion fell upon him and killed him.
He exclaimed with a too late repentance, "Wretched me! this overestimation of myself is the cause of my destruction." The Birds, the Beasts, and the Bat THE BIRDS waged war with the Beasts, and each were by turns the conquerors.
A Bat, fearing the uncertain issues of the fight, always fought on the side which he felt was the strongest.
One day he happened to see a Swallow, which had appeared before its season, skimming along a pool and twittering gaily.
He supposed that summer had come, and went and sold his cloak.
Not many days later, winter set in again with renewed frost and cold.
When he found the unfortunate Swallow lifeless on the ground, he said, "Unhappy bird! what have you done?
By thus appearing before the springtime you have not only killed yourself, but you have wrought my destruction also." The Trumpeter Taken Prisoner A TRUMPETER, bravely leading on the soldiers, was captured by the enemy.
He cried out to his captors, "Pray spare me, and do not take my life without cause or without inquiry.
I have not slain a single man of your troop.
I have no arms, and carry nothing but this one brass trumpet.
She said acorns would produce mistletoe, from which an irremediable poison, the bird-lime, would be extracted and by which they would be captured.
The Owl next advised them to pluck up the seed of the flax, which men had sown, as it was a plant which boded no good to them.
And, lastly, the Owl, seeing an archer approach, predicted that this man, being on foot, would contrive darts armed with feathers which would fly faster than the wings of the Birds themselves.
The Birds gave no credence to these warning words, but considered the Owl to be beside herself and said that she was mad.
But afterwards, finding her words were true, they wondered at her knowledge and deemed her to be the wisest of birds.
The Goods wafted themselves to heaven and asked for a righteous vengeance on their persecutors.
A Sparrow upbraided her and said, "Where now is thy remarkable swiftness of foot?
Why were your feet so slow?
While the Sparrow was thus speaking, a hawk suddenly seized him and killed him.
The Ox replied: "I do not wish to be ungrateful, for I am loved and well cared for by men, and they often pat my head and shoulders.
Seeing this, the man put a halter on him and led him back to his owner.
A Crow hearing her, said: "My good friend, cease from this unseasonable boasting.
One very cold wintry day, as they talked, the Man put his fingers to his mouth and blew on them.
When the Satyr asked the reason for this, he told him that he did it to warm his hands because they were so cold.
Later on in the day they sat down to eat, and the food prepared was quite scalding.
The Man raised one of the dishes a little towards his mouth and blew in it.
When the Satyr again inquired the reason, he said that he did it to cool the meat, which was too hot.
On the completion of their labours, a dispute arose as to which had made the most perfect work.
They agreed to appoint Momus as judge, and to abide by his decision.
Momus, however, being very envious of the handicraft of each, found fault with all.
He first blamed the work of Neptune because he had not made the horns of the bull below his eyes, so he might better see where to strike.
He then condemned the work of Jupiter, because he had not placed the heart of man on the outside, that everyone might read the thoughts of the evil disposed and take precautions against the intended mischief.
And, lastly, he inveighed against Minerva because she had not contrived iron wheels in the foundation of her house, so its inhabitants might more easily remove if a neighbor proved unpleasant.
A Jackdaw, who witnessed the capture of the lamb, was stirred with envy and determined to emulate the strength and flight of the Eagle.
The shepherd, seeing what had happened, ran up and caught him.
He at once clipped the Jackdaw's wings, and taking him home at night, gave him to his children.
The Eagle built her nest in the branches of a tall tree, while the Fox crept into the underwood and there produced her young.
Not long after they had agreed upon this plan, the Eagle, being in want of provision for her young ones, swooped down while the Fox was out, seized upon one of the little cubs, and feasted herself and her brood.
The Fox on her return, discovered what had happened, but was less grieved for the death of her young than for her inability to avenge them.
A strong breeze soon fanned the spark into a flame, and the eaglets, as yet unfledged and helpless, were roasted in their nest and dropped down dead at the bottom of the tree.
When her request was granted, she besought permission to rear her puppies in the same spot.
Seeing his own shadow reflected in the water, he greatly admired the size and variety of his horns, but felt angry with himself for having such slender and weak feet.
While he was thus contemplating himself, a Lion appeared at the pool and crouched to spring upon him.
The Stag immediately took to flight, and exerting his utmost speed, as long as the plain was smooth and open kept himself easily at a safe distance from the Lion.
But entering a wood he became entangled by his horns, and the Lion quickly came up to him and caught him.
When too late, he thus reproached himself: "Woe is me!
How I have deceived myself!
She let him lie uninterred for five days, and on the sixth day, not knowing what else to do, she buried him in her own head.
Just as he was about to fly off, he made a buzzing noise, and inquired of the Bull if he would like him to go.
Having vastly delighted the assembly, he sat down amidst universal applause.
The Camel, envious of the praises bestowed on the Monkey and desiring to divert to himself the favour of the guests, proposed to stand up in his turn and dance for their amusement.
Being thus deprived of the means of his livelihood, he sat down on the bank and lamented his hard fate.
Mercury appeared and demanded the cause of his tears.
After he told him his misfortune, Mercury plunged into the stream, and, bringing up a golden axe, inquired if that were the one he had lost.
On his saying that it was not his, Mercury disappeared beneath the water a second time, returned with a silver axe in his hand, and again asked the Workman if it were his.
When the Workman said it was not, he dived into the pool for the third time and brought up the axe that had been lost.
The Workman claimed it and expressed his joy at its recovery.
Mercury, pleased with his honesty, gave him the golden and silver axes in addition to his own.
The Workman, on his return to his house, related to his companions all that had happened.
One of them at once resolved to try and secure the same good fortune for himself.
He ran to the river and threw his axe on purpose into the pool at the same place, and sat down on the bank to weep.
Mercury appeared to him just as he hoped he would; and having learned the cause of his grief, plunged into the stream and brought up a golden axe, inquiring if he had lost it.
The Workman seized it greedily, and declared that truly it was the very same axe that he had lost.
He resolved to cut it down, and taking his axe in his hand, made a bold stroke at its roots.
The grasshoppers and sparrows entreated him not to cut down the tree that sheltered them, but to spare it, and they would sing to him and lighten his labours.
He paid no attention to their request, but gave the tree a second and a third blow with his axe.
When he reached the hollow of the tree, he found a hive full of honey.
The one fled away; the other stood his ground and defended himself with his stout right hand.
The Robber being slain, the timid companion ran up and drew his sword, and then, throwing back his traveling cloak said, "I'll at him, and I'll take care he shall learn whom he has attacked.
The Sheep eating the acorns inadvertently frayed and tore the cloak.
When the Shepherd came down and saw what was done, he said, "O you most ungrateful creatures!
Jupiter chose the oak, Venus the myrtle, Apollo the laurel, Cybele the pine, and Hercules the poplar. Minerva, wondering why they had preferred trees not yielding fruit, inquired the reason for their choice.
Jupiter replied, "It is lest we should seem to covet the honour for the fruit.
But said Minerva, "Let anyone say what he will the olive is more dear to me on account of its fruit.
Each undertook his proper duty in accordance with his own nature and powers.
The Fox discovered and pointed out the prey; the Lion sprang on it and seized it.
The Fox soon became jealous of the Lion carrying off the Lion's share, and said that he would no longer find out the prey, but would capture it on his own account.
He inquired of her, "Who art thou?
My name is Truth," she replied.
And for what cause," he asked, "have you left the city to dwell alone here in the wilderness?
She made answer, "Because in former times, falsehood was with few, but is now with all men." The Manslayer A MAN committed a murder, and was pursued by the relations of the man whom he murdered.
On his reaching the river Nile he saw a Lion on its bank and being fearfully afraid, climbed up a tree.
While he was in the act of throwing himself over, his owner seized him by the tail, endeavoring to pull him back.
A Fowler observed her staying so long in one spot, and having well bird-limed his reeds, caught her.
As he passed the door of a cottage built in the forest, he heard a Mother say to her child, "Be quiet, or I will throw you out of the window, and the Wolf shall eat you.
The Wolf sat all day waiting at the door.
In the evening he heard the same woman fondling her child and saying: "You are quiet now, and if the Wolf should come, we will kill him.
The Wolf, hearing these words, went home, gasping with cold and hunger. When he reached his den, Mistress Wolf inquired of him why he returned wearied and supperless, so contrary to his wont.
He replied: "Why, forsooth! use I gave credence to the words of a woman!" The Hen and the Swallow A HEN finding the eggs of a viper and carefully keeping them warm, nourished them into life.
I envy you your beauty and your perfume.
The Rose replied, "I indeed, dear Amaranth, flourish but for a brief season!
If no cruel hand pluck me from my stem, yet I must perish by an early doom.
As they rested under its shade, one of the Travelers said to the other, "What a singularly useless tree is the Plane!
It bears no fruit, and is not of the least service to man.
The Plane-Tree, interrupting him, said, "You ungrateful fellows!
The Ass replied, "Thank you.
But I can't think that you, who refuse me a little matter now, will by and by confer on me a greater benefit." The Crow and the Sheep A TROUBLESOME CROW seated herself on the back of a Sheep.
The Sheep, much against his will, carried her backward and forward for a long time, and at last said, "If you had treated a dog in this way, you would have had your deserts from his sharp teeth.
To this the Crow replied, "I despise the weak and yield to the strong.
Having pricked and grievously torn the soles of his feet, he accused the Bramble because, when he had fled to her for assistance, she had used him worse than the hedge itself.
But when war broke out, a heavily armed soldier mounted the Horse, and riding him to the charge, rushed into the very midst of the enemy.
The Horse was wounded and fell dead on the battlefield.
Then the Ass, seeing all these things, changed his mind, and commiserated the Horse. The Lion, Jupiter, and the Elephant THE LION wearied Jupiter with his frequent complaints.
It is true, O Jupiter!" he said, "that I am gigantic in strength, handsome in shape, and powerful in attack.
Jupiter replied, "Why do you blame me without a cause?
I have given you all the attributes which I possess myself, and your courage never fails you except in this one instance.
On hearing this the Lion groaned and lamented very much and, reproaching himself with his cowardice, wished that he might die.
As these thoughts passed through his mind, he met an Elephant and came close to hold a conversation with him.
If it enters my ear, my fate is sealed.
The Lion said, "Well, since so huge a beast is afraid of a tiny gnat, I will no more complain, nor wish myself dead.
One carried panniers filled with money, the other sacks weighted with grain.
The Mule carrying the treasure walked with head erect, as if conscious of the value of his burden, and tossed up and down the clear-toned bells fastened to his neck.
The Mule which had been robbed and wounded bewailed his misfortunes.
The Wolf called out to him and said, "The Priest will slay you in sacrifice, if he should catch you.
On which the Lamb replied, "It would be better for me to be sacrificed in the Temple than to be eaten by you." The Partridge and the Fowler A FOWLER caught a Partridge and was about to kill it.
The Partridge earnestly begged him to spare his life, saying, "Pray, master, permit me to live and I will entice many Partridges to you in recompense for your mercy to me.
He more particularly addressed himself to a File, and asked of him the favour of a meal.
Soon afterward he came up to a Shepherd and fawned upon him, wagging his tail as if to say, "I am a suppliant, and seek your aid.
The Shepherd boldly examined the beast, discovered the thorn, and placing his paw upon his lap, pulled it out; thus relieved of his pain, the Lion returned into the forest.
Some time after, the Shepherd, being imprisoned on a false accusation, was condemned "to be cast to the Lions" as the punishment for his imputed crime.
But when the Lion was released from his cage, he recognized the Shepherd as the man who healed him, and instead of attacking him, approached and placed his foot upon his lap.
He went to Jupiter, and besought him to give him horns.
The Shepherds discovered him, and some threw sticks at him and pelted him with stones, while others, moved with compassion towards one about to die even though no one should hurt him, threw in some food to prolong his life.
At night they returned home, not dreaming of any danger, but supposing that on the morrow they would find him dead.
The Panther, however, when he had recruited his feeble strength, freed himself with a sudden bound from the pit, and hastened to his den with rapid steps.
After a few days he came forth and slaughtered the cattle, and, killing the Shepherds who had attacked him, raged with angry fury.
Then they who had spared his life, fearing for their safety, surrendered to him their flocks and begged only for their lives.
To them the Panther made this reply: "I remember alike those who sought my life with stones, and those who gave me food aside, therefore, your fears.
I return as an enemy only to those who injured me." The Eagle and the Kite AN EAGLE, overwhelmed with sorrow, sat upon the branches of a tree in company with a Kite.
Why," said the Kite, "do I see you with such a rueful look?
I seek," she replied, "a mate suitable for me, and am not able to find one.
Take me," returned the Kite, "I am much stronger than you are.
Why, are you able to secure the means of living by your plunder?
Well, I have often caught and carried away an ostrich in my talons.
The Eagle, persuaded by these words, accepted him as her mate.
Shortly after the nuptials, the Eagle said, "Fly off and bring me back the ostrich you promised me.
The Kite, soaring aloft into the air, brought back the shabbiest possible mouse, stinking from the length of time it had lain about the fields.
Is this," said the Eagle, "the faithful fulfillment of your promise to me?
Later, another neighbor purchased him and allowed his feathers to grow again.
The Eagle took flight, and pouncing upon a hare, brought it at once as an offering to his benefactor.
Afraid the dream should prove true, he built for his son a pleasant palace and adorned its walls for his amusement with all kinds of life-sized animals, among which was the picture of a lion.
With these words he stretched out his hands toward a thorn-tree, meaning to cut a stick from its branches so that he might beat the lion.
But one of the tree's prickles pierced his finger and caused great pain and inflammation, so that the young Prince fell down in a fainting fit.
Venus consented to her request and transformed her into a beautiful damsel, so that the youth saw her and loved her, and took her home as his bride.
While the two were reclining in their chamber, Venus wishing to discover if the Cat in her change of shape had also altered her habits of life, let down a mouse in the middle of the room.
The Eagle gave the first provocation in seizing upon and in eating the young ones of the Beetle.
The Beetle got by stealth at the Eagle's eggs, and rolled them out of the nest, and followed the Eagle even into the presence of Jupiter.
Escaping, the Fly said mockingly, "You who have wished to revenge, even with death, the Prick of a tiny insect, see what you have done to yourself to add insult to injury?
The Bald Man replied, "I can easily make peace with myself, because I know there was no intention to hurt.
After a while he awoke, and looking upon the Sea, loaded it with reproaches.
He argued that it enticed men with the calmness of its looks, but when it had induced them to plow its waters, it grew rough and destroyed them.
Various public performers contended for the prize.
Among them came a Buffoon well known among the populace for his jokes, and said that he had a kind of entertainment which had never been brought out on any stage before.
This report being spread about made a great stir, and the theater was crowded in every part.
The Buffoon appeared alone upon the platform, without any apparatus or confederates, and the very sense of expectation caused an intense silence.
He suddenly bent his head towards his bosom and imitated the squeaking of a little pig so admirably with his voice that the audience declared he had a porker under his cloak, and demanded that it should be shaken out.
When that was done and nothing was found, they cheered the actor, and loaded him with the loudest applause.
On the morrow a still larger crowd assembled in the theater, but now partiality for their favourite actor very generally prevailed, and the audience came rather to ridicule the Countryman than to see the spectacle.
Both of the performers appeared on the stage.
The Buffoon grunted and squeaked away first, and obtained, as on the preceding day, the applause and cheers of the spectators.
The Crowd, however, cried out with one consent that the Buffoon had given a far more exact imitation, and clamored for the Countryman to be kicked out of the theater.
On this the rustic produced the little pig from his cloak and showed by the most positive proof the greatness of their mistake.
Look here," he said, "this shows what sort of judges you are." The Crow and the Serpent A CROW in great want of food saw a Serpent asleep in a sunny nook, and flying down, greedily seized him.
The Serpent, turning about, bit the Crow with a mortal wound.
On his way he met a man on horseback who begged the hare of him, under the pretense of purchasing it.
However, when the Horseman got the hare, he rode off as fast as he could.
The Hunter ran after him, as if he was sure of overtaking him, but the Horseman increased more and more the distance between them.
A shower of snow fell upon them, and, finding the Olive full of foliage, it settled upon its branches and broke them down with its weight, at once despoiling it of its beauty and killing the tree.
Jupiter, disturbed by the noise of their croaking, inquired the cause of their complaint.
One of them said, "The Sun, now while he is single, parches up the marsh, and compels us to die miserably in our arid homes.
What will be our future condition if he should beget other suns?" The Brazier and His Dog A BRAZIER had a little Dog, which was a great favourite with his master, and his constant companion.
His master one day, pretending to be angry and shaking his stick at him, said, "You wretched little sluggard! what shall I do to you?
While I am hammering on the anvil, you sleep on the mat; and when I begin to eat after my toil, you wake up and wag your tail for food.
Do you not know that labor is the source of every blessing, and that none but those who work are entitled to eat?" FOOTNOTES 1 (return) [ A History of the Literature of Ancient Greece, by K.
191. _London_, Parker, 1858.] 2 (return) [ Select Fables of AEsop, and other Fabulists.
In three books, translated by Robert Dodsley, accompanied with a selection of notes, and an Essay on Fable. _Birmingham_, 1864.
60.] 3 (return) [ Some of these fables had, no doubt, in the first instance, a primary and private interpretation.
On the first occasion of their being composed they were intended to refer to some passing event, or to some individual acts of wrong-doing.
Thus, the fables of the "Eagle and the Fox" and of the "Fox and Monkey" are supposed to have been written by Archilochus, to avenge the injuries done him by Lycambes.
In a similar manner, the fable from Phaedrus, the "Marriage of the Sun," is supposed to have reference to the contemplated union of Livia, the daughter of Drusus, with Sejanus the favourite, and minister of Trajan.
These fables, however, though thus originating in special events, and designed at first to meet special circumstances, are so admirably constructed as to be fraught with lessons of general utility, and of universal application.] 4 (return) [ Hesiod.
Opera et Dies, verse 202.] 5 (return) [ AEschylus.
See Scholiast on the Aves of Aristophanes, line 808.] 6 (return) [ Fragment.
See also Mueller's History of the Literature of Ancient Greece, vol. i. pp. 190-193.] 7 (return) [ M.
Bayle has well put this in his account of AEsop.
Dictionnaire Historique_.] 8 (return) [ Plato in Phaedone.] 9 (return) [ Apologos en! misit tibi Ab usque Rheni limite Ausonius nomen Italum Praeceptor Augusti tui AEsopiam trimetriam; Quam vertit exili stylo Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex. _Ausonii Epistola_, xvi.
There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.
The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St. Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.
None of the stories are precisely those of AEsop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.
The exact title of the book is this: "Speculum Sapientiae, B.
Cyrilli Episcopi: alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit.
The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.
This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.
It has no correspondence with the pure AEsopian fable.] 12 (return) [ Post-mediaeval Preachers, by S.
Rivingtons, 1865.] 13 (return) [ For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev. William Shepherd.
Liverpool, 1801.] 14 (return) [ Professor Theodore Bergh.
See Classical Museum, No. viii.
1709.] 16 (return) [ The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M.
Bayle, who, in his admirable Dictionary, (_Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle_.
See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev. James Davies.
27.] 18 (return) [ See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris.] 19 (return) [ Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of AEsop examined.
By the Honourable Charles Boyle.] 20 (return) [ M.
However, MICRA, Inc. makes no proprietary claims regarding this electronic version of the 1911 thesaurus.
About 1500 verbs (out of 6500) which can be found in an 80,000-word spell-checker are absent from this work. The deficiency of nouns is probably much worse, especially on technical topics.
Of 40,000 unique words contained in the original text, 12,000 are not recognized by a spell-checker.
Most of these are foreign words (primarily Latin), and many are obsolete.
In this version, these words are marked as such by comments in square brackets.
Although this version has been proof-read, there are doubtless numerous residual transcription errors, some of which may be obvious even without reference to the original text.
We will be grateful if any of these are brought to our attention; the corrections will appear in subsequent versions. The original arrangement has also been modified slightly in several places, in particular by splitting one entry into two.
A version of the 1911 thesaurus which is almost identical to the original (only a small number of additions to the original work) has also been prepared by MICRA, Inc., and also carries no restrictions from MICRA.
Copies of that version or this one may be purchased for $40.00 from MICRA, Inc., or from the Austin Code Works, Austin Texas. Occasional references to numbers starting with "@" are the embryonic beginnings of a reorganized version, mentioned below.
In the plain ASCII file, this formatting is lost. (5) in the original book, words which were obsolete (in 1911) were marked with a dagger.
However, this marking process has just commenced, and only a small portion of the words which are now obsolete have been thus marked.
Most though not all of the foreign-language phrases are now obsolete.
Neither outline nor index are contained here.
The objective is to create a database of words organized by semantic categories, suitable for use in natural-language understanding programs.
This is a very small-scale project, which will not be competitive with large academic or commercial efforts such as the CYC project, but is intended to provide a convenient resource for experimentation in natural-language processing for individuals or small groups.
Anyone who is currently engaged in or contemplating a similar thesaurus or dictionary project, who would be willing to collaborate on this project, is encouraged to contact us, so that unnecessary duplication of effort can be avoided.
We would also appreciate being notified of typos, errors, or omissions in any version.
Send inquiries or comments to: Patrick Cassidy MICRA Inc. 735 Belvidere Ave. Plainfield, NJ 07062-2054 voice: (908) 668-5252 fax: (908) 668-5904 (If no one answers, please leave a message.) [Illustration: P.M. Roget] Tabular Synopsis of Categories CLASS I.
RESULTS OF ACTION (Division (II).
Existence.-N. existence, being, entity, _ens_, _esse_, subsistence. reality, actuality; positiveness &c. adj.; fact, matter of fact, sober reality; truth &c.
494; actual existence. presence &c. (existence in space) 186; coexistence &c.
120. stubborn fact, hard fact; not a dream &c.
161. abide, continue, endure, last, remain, stay. Adj. existing &c. v.; existent, under the sun; in existence &c. n.; extant; afloat, afoot, on foot, current, prevalent; undestroyed. real, actual, positive, absolute; true &c.
494; substantial, substantive; self-existing, self-existent; essential. well-founded, well-grounded; unideal[obs3], unimagined; not potential &c.
2; authentic. Adv. actually &c. adj.; in fact, in point of fact, in reality; indeed; _de facto, ipso facto_. Phr. _ens rationis; ergo sum cogito;_ "thinkest thou existence doth depend on time?" [Byron]. #2.
Inexistence.-N. inexistence[obs3]; nonexistence, nonsubsistence; # nonentity, nil; negativeness &c. adj.; nullity; nihility[obs3], nihilism; tabula rasa[Lat], blank; abeyance; absence &c.
187; no such thing &c. 4; nonbeing, nothingness, oblivion. annihilation; extinction &c. (destruction) 162; extinguishment, extirpation, Nirvana, obliteration. V. not exist &c.
1; have no existence &c.
1; be null and void; cease to exist &c.
1; pass away, perish; be extinct, become extinct &c. adj.; die out; disappear &c.
449; melt away, dissolve, leave not a rack behind; go, be no more; die &c.
360. annihilate, render null, nullify; abrogate &c.
756; destroy &c. 162; take away; remove &c. (displace) 185; obliterate, extirpate. Adj. inexistent[obs3], nonexistent &c.
1; negative, blank; missing, omitted; absent &c.
187; insubstantial, shadowy, spectral, visionary. unreal, potential, virtual; baseless, in nubibus[Lat]; unsubstantial &c.
4; vain. unborn, uncreated[obs3], unbegotten, unconceived, unproduced, unmade. perished, annihilated, &c. v.; extinct, exhausted, gone, lost, vanished, departed, gone with the wind; defunct &c. (dead) 360. fabulous, ideal &c. (imaginary) 515, supposititious &c.
514. Adv. negatively, virtually &c. adj. Phr. non ens[Lat]. 2.
Substantiality.-N. substantiality, hypostasis; person, being, thing, object, article, item; something, a being, an existence; creature, body, substance, flesh and blood, stuff, substratum; matter &c.
316; corporeity[obs3], element, essential nature, groundwork, materiality, substantialness, vital part. [Totality of existences], world &c.
Adj. substantive, substantial; hypostatic; personal, bodily, tangible &c. (material) 316; corporeal.
Adv. substantially &c. adj.; bodily, essentially. #4.
353; "baseless fabric of a vision" [Tempest]; mockery. hollowness, blank; void &c. (absence) 187. inanity, fool's paradise.
V. vanish, evaporate, fade, dissolve, melt away; disappear &c.
Adj. unsubstantial; baseless, groundless; ungrounded; without foundation, having no foundation. visionary &c. (imaginary) 515; immaterial &c.
980; dreamy; shadowy; ethereal, airy; cloud built, cloud formed; gossamery, illusory, insubstantial, unreal. vacant, vacuous; empty &c.
187; eviscerated; blank, hollow; nominal; null; inane.
Phr. there's nothing in it; "an ocean of dreams without a sound" [Shelley]. 3.
FORMAL EXISTENCE Internal conditions #5.
221; to the manner born; virtual. characteristic &c. (special) 79, (indicative) 550; invariable, incurable, incorrigible, ineradicable, fixed.
Adv. intrinsically &c. adj.; at bottom, in the main, in effect, practically, virtually, substantially, au fond; fairly.
Phr. "character is higher than intellect" [Emerson]; "come give us a taste of your quality" magnos homines virtute metimur non fortuna [Lat][ Hamlet][Nepos]; non numero haec judicantur sed pondere [Lat][Cicero]; "vital spark of heavenly flame" [Pope]. External conditions #6.
Extrinsicality.-N. extrinsicality[obs3], objectiveness, non ego; # extraneousness &c.
57; accident; appearance, phenomenon &c.
448. Adj. derived from without; objective; extrinsic, extrinsical[obs3]; extraneous &c. (foreign) 57; modal, adventitious; ascititious[obs3], adscititious[obs3]; incidental, accidental, nonessential; contingent, fortuitous. implanted, ingrafted[obs3]; inculcated, infused. outward, apparent &c. (external) 220. Adv. extrinsically &c. adj. 4.
State.-N. state, condition, category, estate, lot, ease, trim, # mood, pickle, plight, temper; aspect &c. (appearance) 448, dilemma, pass, predicament. constitution, habitude, diathesis[obs3]; frame, fabric &c.
Relation.-N. relation, bearing, reference, connection, concern, cognation; correlation &c.
17; affinity, homology, alliance, homogeneity, association; approximation &c. (nearness) 197; filiation &c. (consanguinity) 11[obs3]; interest; relevancy &c.
23; dependency, relationship, relative position. comparison &c.
464; ratio, proportion. link, tie, bond of union.
43. Adj. relative; correlative &c.
17; relevant &c. (apt) 23; applicable, equiparant[obs3].
Adv. relatively &c. adj.; pertinently &c.
Phr. "thereby hangs a tale" [Taming of the Shrew]. #10. [Want, or absence of relation.] Irrelation.-N. irrelation[obs3], dissociation; misrelation[obs3]; inapplicability; inconnection[obs3]; multifariousness; disconnection &c. (disjunction) 44; inconsequence, independence; incommensurability; irreconcilableness &c. (disagreement) 24; heterogeneity; unconformity &c.
83; irrelevancy, impertinence, nihil ad rem[Lat]; intrusion &c.
V. have no relation to &c.
9; have no bearing upon, have no concern with &c.
9, have no business with; not concern &c.
9; have no business there, have nothing to do with, intrude &c.
24. bring in head and shoulders, drag in head and shoulders, lug in head and shoulders.
Adj. irrelative[obs3], irrespective, unrelated; arbitrary; independent, unallied; unconnected, disconnected; adrift, isolated, insular; extraneous, strange, alien, foreign, outlandish, exotic. not comparable, incommensurable, heterogeneous; unconformable &c.
24. incidental, parenthetical, obiter dicta, episodic.
Adv. parenthetically &c. adj.; by the way, by the by; en passant[Fr], incidentally; irrespectively &c. adj.; without reference to, without regard to; in the abstract &c.
166; stirps, side; strain; breed, clan, tribe, nation.
V. be related to &c. adj. claim relationship with &c. n. with.
148; exchange, barter. reciprocator, reprocitist.
V. reciprocate, alternate; interchange &c.
Adj. reciprocal, mutual, commutual[obs3], correlative, reciprocative, interrelated, closely related; alternate; interchangeable; interdependent; international; complemental, complementary.
Adv. mutually, mutatis mutandis[Lat]; vice versa; each other, one another; by turns &c.
Phr. "happy in our mutual help" [Milton]. #13.
Identity.-N. identity, sameness; coincidence, coalescence; convertibility; equality &c.
Adj. identical; self, ilk; the same &c. n. selfsame, one and the same, homoousian[obs3]. coincide, coalescent, coalescing; indistinguishable; one; equivalent &c. (equal) 27; tweedle dee and tweedle dum[Lat]; much the same, of a muchness[obs3]; unaltered.
Adv. identically &c. adj.; on all fours. #14. [Noncoincidence.] Contrariety.-N. contrariety, contrast, foil, antithesis, oppositeness; contradiction; antagonism &c. (opposition) 708; clashing, repugnance. inversion &c.
218; the opposite, the reverse, the inverse, the converse, the antipodes, the antithesis, the other extreme.
V. be contrary &c. adj.; contrast with, oppose; diller toto coelo[Lat]. invert, reverse, turn the tables; turn topsy-turvy, turn end for end, turn upside down, turn inside out. contradict, contravene; antagonize &c.
Adj. contrary, contrarious[obs3], contrariant[obs3]; opposite, counter, dead against; converse, reverse; opposed, antithetical, contrasted, antipodean, antagonistic, opposing; conflicting, inconsistent, contradictory, at cross purposes; negative; hostile &c.
Adv. contrarily &c. adj.; contra, contrariwise, per contra, on the contrary, nay rather; vice versa; on the other hand &c. (in compensation) 30.
Phr. "all concord's born of contraries" [B.
Thesis, antithesis, synthesis [Marx]. #15.
Difference.-N. difference; variance, variation, variety; diversity, dissimilarity &c.
24; disparity &c. (inequality) 28; distinction, contradistinction; alteration. modification, permutation, moods and tenses. nice distinction, fine distinction, delicate distinction, subtle distinction; shade of difference, nuance; discrimination &c.
465; differentia. different thing, something else, apple off another tree, another pair of shoes; horse of a different color; this that or the other.
V. be different &c. adj.; differ, vary, ablude|, mismatch, contrast; divaricate; differ toto coelo[Lat], differ longo intervallo[It]. vary, modify &c. (change) 140. discriminate &c.
Adj. differing &c. v.; different, diverse, heterogeneous, multifarious, polyglot; distinguishable, dissimilar; varied, modified; diversified, various, divers, all manner of, all kinds of; variform &c.
81[obs3]; daedal[obs3]. other, another, not the same; unequal &c.
28. unmatched; widely apart, poles apart, distinctive, characteristic; discriminative; distinguishing. incommensurable, incommensurate.
Phr. il y a fagots et fagots. 2.
Uniformity.-N. uniformity; homogeneity, homogeneousness; consistency; connaturality[obs3], connaturalness[obs3]; homology; accordance; conformity &c.
23; consonance, uniformness. regularity, constancy, even tenor, routine; monotony.
V. be uniform &c. adj.; accord with &c.
23; run through. become uniform &c. adj.; conform to &c.
82. render uniform, homogenize &c. adj.; assimilate, level, smooth, dress.
Adj. uniform; homogeneous, homologous; of a piece[Fr], consistent, connatural[obs3]; monotonous, even, invariable; regular, unchanged, undeviating, unvaried, unvarying. unsegmented.
256; dissimilarity, dissimilitude, divarication, divergence.
Adj. diversified varied, irregular, uneven, rough &c. 256; multifarious; multiform &c.
81; of various kinds; all manner of, all sorts of, all kinds of.
Adv. variously, in all manner of ways, here there and everywhere. 3.
Similarity.-N. similarity, resemblance, likeness, similitude, semblance; affinity, approximation, parallelism; agreement &c.
23; analogy, analogicalness[obs3]; correspondence, homoiousia[obs3], parity. connaturalness[obs3], connaturality[obs3]; brotherhood, family likeness. alliteration, rhyme, pun. repetition &c.
104; sameness &c. (identity) 13; uniformity &c.
V. be similar &c. adj.; look like, resemble, bear resemblance; smack of, savor of; approximate; parallel, match, rhyme with; take after; imitate &c.
S.]. render similar &c. adj.; assimilate, approximate, bring near; connaturalize[obs3], make alike; rhyme, pun.
Adv. as if, so to speak; as it were, as if it were; quasi, just as, veluti in speculum[Lat].
Phr. et sic de similibus[Lat]; tel maitre tel valet[Fr]; tel pere tel fils[Fr]; like master, like servant; like father, like son; the fruit doesn't fall far from the tree; a chip off the old block #18.
Dissimilarity.-N. dissimilarity, dissimilaritude[obs3]; unlikeness, diversity, disparity, dissemblance[obs3]; divergence, variation.; difference &c.
15; novelty, originality; creativeness; oogamy[obs3].
V. be unlike &c. adj.; vary &c. (differ) 15; bear no resemblance to, differ toto coelo[Lat]. render unlike &c. adj.; vary &c. (diversify) 140.
Adj. dissimilar, unlike, disparate; divergent; of a different kind &c. (class) 75 unmatched, unique; new, novel; unprecedented &c.
Phr. diis aliter visum[Lat]; "no more like my father than I to Hercules" [Hamlet]. #19.
Imitation.-N. imitation; copying &c. v.; transcription; repetition, duplication, reduplication; quotation; reproduction; mimeograph, xerox, facsimile; reprint, offprint. mockery, mimicry; simulation, impersonation, personation; representation &c.
21; assimilation. paraphrase, parody, take-off, lampoon, caricature &c.
21. plagiarism; forgery, counterfeit &c. (falsehood) 544; celluloid. imitator, echo, cuckoo|, parrot, ape, monkey, mocking bird, mime; copyist, copycat; plagiarist, pirate.
V. imitate, copy, mirror, reflect, reproduce, repeat; do like, echo, reecho, catch; transcribe; match, parallel. mock, take off, mimic, ape, simulate, impersonate, personate; act &c. (drama) 599; represent &c.
Coles]; "quotation confesses inferiority" [Emerson]; "Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery". #20.
Nonimitation.-N. no imitation; originality; creativeness. # invention, creation. Adj. unimitated[obs3], uncopied[obs3]; unmatched, unparalleled; inimitable &c.
13; unique, original; creative, inventive, untranslated; exceptional, rare, sui generis uncommon[Lat], unexampled. #20a.
Variation.-N. variation; alteration &c. (change) 140. modification, moods and tenses; discrepance[obs3], discrepancy. divergency &c.
V. vary &c. (change) 140; deviate &c.
Adj. varied &c. v.; modified; diversified &c.
16a. #21. [Result of imitation.] Copy.-N. copy, facsimile, counterpart, # effigies, effigy, form, likeness. image, picture, photo, xerox, similitude, semblance, ectype[obs3], photo offset, electrotype; imitation &c.
V. be an example, be a role model, set an example; set a copy. Phr. a precedent embalms a principle [Disraeli]; exempla sunt odiosa[Lat]. 4.
Agreement.-N. agreement; accord, accordance; unison, harmony; concord &c.
714; concordance, concert; understanding, mutual understanding. conformity &c.
709. right man in the right place, very thing; quite the thing, just the thing.
17; become one; homologate[obs3]. consent &c. (assent) 488. render accordant &c. adj.; fit, suit, adapt, accommodate; graduate; adjust &c. (render, equal) 27; dress, regulate, readjust; accord, harmonize,. reconcile; fadge[obs3], dovetail, square.
Disagreement.-N. disagreement; discord, discordance; dissonance, dissidence, discrepancy; unconformity &c.
83; incongruity, incongruence[obs3]; discongruity[obs3], mesalliance; jarring &c. v.; dissension &c.
V. disagree; clash, jar &c. (discord) 713; interfere, intrude, come amiss; not concern &c.
10; mismatch; humano capiti cervicem jungere equinam[Lat]. Adj. disagreeing &c. v.; discordant, discrepant; at variance, at war; hostile, antagonistic, repugnant, incompatible, irreconcilable, inconsistent with; unconformable, exceptional &c.
Phr. asinus ad lyram[Lat]. SECTION III.
17. equalization, equation; equilibration, co*ordination, adjustment, readjustment; drawn game, drawn battle; neck and neck race; tie, draw, standoff, dead heat. match, peer, compeer, equal, mate, fellow, brother; equivalent.
Adj. equal, even, level, monotonous, coequal, symmetrical, coordinate; on a par with, on a level with, on a footing with; up to the mark; equiparant[obs3]. equivalent, tantamount; indistinguishable; quits; homologous; synonymous &c.
15; unevenness; inclination of the balance, partiality, bias, weight; shortcoming; casting weight, make- weight; superiority &c.
34; inequation[obs3]. V. be unequal &c. adj.; countervail; have the advantage, give the advantage; turn the scale; kick the beam; topple, topple over; overmatch &c.
33; not come up to &c.
Adj. unequal, uneven, disparate, partial; unbalanced, overbalanced; top-heavy, lopsided, biased, skewed; disquiparant[obs3].
Adv. haud passibus aequis [Latin][Vergil]. #29.
Mean.-N. mean, average; median, mode; balance, medium, # mediocrity, generality; golden mean &c. (mid-course) 628; middle &c. 68; compromise &c.
774; middle course, middle state; neutrality. mediocrity, least common denominator. V. split the difference; take the average &c. n.; reduce to a mean &c. n.; strike a balance, pair off. Adj. mean, intermediate; middle &c.
Compensation.-N. compensation, equation; commutation; indemnification; compromise &c.
774 neutralization, nullification; counteraction &c.
179; reaction; measure for measure, retaliation &c. 718 equalization &c.
27; robbing Peter to pay Paul. set-off, offset; make-weight, casting-weight; counterpoise, ballast; indemnity, equivalent, quid pro quo; bribe, hush money; amends &c. (atonement) 952; counterbalance, counterclaim; cross-debt, cross-demand.
V. make compensation; compensate, compense[obs3]; indemnify; counteract, countervail, counterpoise; balance; outbalance[obs3], overbalance, counterbalance; set off; hedge, square, give and take; make up for, lee way; cover, fill up, neutralize, nullify; equalize &c.
27; make good; redeem &c. (atone) 952.
Adj. compensating, compensatory; countervailing &c. v.; in the opposite scale; equivalent &c. (equal) 27.
Phr. "light is mingled with the gloom" [Whittier]; every dark cloud has a silver lining; primo avulso non deficit alter [Lat][obs3][Vergil]; saepe creat molles aspera spina rosas [Lat][Ovid]. QUANTITY BY COMPARISON WITH A STANDARD #31.
Greatness.-N. greatness &c. adj.; magnitude; size &c. (dimensions) 192; multitude &c. (number) 102; immensity; enormity; infinity &c.
V. be great &c. adj.; run high, soar, tower, transcend; rise to a great height, carry to a great height; know no bounds; ascend, mount. enlarge &c. (increase) 35, (expand) 194.
102. goodly, noble, precious, mighty; sad, grave, heavy, serious; far gone, arrant, downright; utter, uttermost; crass, gross, arch, profound, intense, consummate; rank, uninitiated, red-hot, desperate; glaring, flagrant, stark staring; thorough-paced, thoroughgoing; roaring, thumping; extraordinary.; important &c.
642; unsurpassed &c. (supreme) 33; complete &c.
52. august, grand, dignified, sublime, majestic &c. (repute) 873. vast, immense, enormous, extreme; inordinate, excessive, extravagant, exorbitant, outrageous, preposterous, unconscionable, swinging, monstrous, overgrown; towering, stupendous, prodigious, astonishing, incredible; marvelous &c.
870. unlimited &c. (infinite) 105; unapproachable, unutterable, indescribable, ineffable, unspeakable, inexpressible, beyond expression, fabulous. undiminished, unabated, unreduced[obs3], unrestricted. absolute, positive, stark, decided, unequivocal, essential, perfect, finished. remarkable, of mark, marked, pointed, veriest; noteworthy; renowned.
Phr. a maximis ad minima[Lat]; "greatness knows itself" [Henry IV]; "mightiest powers by deepest calms are fed" [B.
Cornwall]; minimum decet libere cui multum licet [Lat][Seneca]; "some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them" [Twelfth Night]. #32.
193. trifle &c. (unimportant thing) 643; mere nothing, next to nothing; hardly anything; just enough to swear by; the shadow of a shade. finiteness, finite quantity.
V. be small &c. adj.; lie in a nutshell. diminish &c. (decrease) 36; (contract) 195.
Adj. small, little; diminutive &c. (small in size) 193; minute; fine; inconsiderable, paltry &c. (unimportant) 643; faint &c. (weak) 160; slender, light, slight, scanty, scant, limited; meager &c. (insufficient) 640; sparing; few &c.
Adv. to a small extent[in a small degree], on a small scale; a little bit, a wee bit; slightly &c. adj.; imperceptibly; miserably, wretchedly; insufficiently &c.
Superiority. [Supremacy.]-N. superiority, majority; greatness &c.
31; advantage; pull; preponderance, preponderation; vantage ground, prevalence, partiality; personal superiority; nobility &c. (rank) 875; Triton among the minnows, primus inter pares[Lat], nulli secundus[Lat], captain; crackajack * [obs3][U.
V. be superior &c. adj.; exceed, excel, transcend; outdo, outbalance[obs3], outweigh, outrank, outrival, out-Herod; pass, surpass, get ahead of; over-top, override, overpass, overbalance, overweigh, overmatch; top, o'ertop, cap, beat, cut out; beat hollow; outstrip &c.
S.]. become larger, render larger &c. (increase) 35, (expand) 194.
Adj. superior, greater, major, higher; exceeding &c. v.; great &c.
I shall not look upon his like again" [Hamlet]; deos fortioribus addesse [Lat][Tacitus]. #34.
Inferiority.-N. inferiority, minority, subordinacy; shortcoming, deficiency; minimum; smallness &c.
32; imperfection; lower quality, lower worth. [personal inferiority] commonalty &c.
Adj. inferior, smaller; small &c.
193); lowest. diminished &c. (decreased) 36; reduced &c. (contracted) 195; unimportant &c.
Adv. less; under the mark, below the mark, below par; at the bottom of the scale, at a low ebb, at a disadvantage; short of, under. CHANGES IN QUANTITY #35.
Increase.-N. increase, augmentation, enlargement, extension; dilatation &c. (expansion) 194; increment, accretion; accession &c.
37; development, growth; aggrandizement, aggravation; rise; ascent &c.
305; exaggeration, exacerbation; spread &c. (dispersion) 73; flood tide; gain, produce, product, profit.
V. increase, augment, add to, enlarge; dilate &c. (expand) 194; grow, wax, get ahead, gain strength; advance; run up, shoot up; rise; ascend &c.
194. aggrandize; raise, exalt; deepen, heighten; strengthen; intensify, enhance, magnify, redouble; aggravate, exaggerate; exasperate, exacerbate; add fuel to the flame, oleum addere camino[Lat], superadd &c. (add) 37[obs3]; spread &c. (disperse) 73.
Adj. increased &c. v.; on the increase, undiminished; additional &c. (added) 37.
Phr. vires acquirit eundo [Lat][Vergil]. #36.
Nonincrease, Decrease.-N. decrease, diminution; lessening &c. v.; subtraction &c.
38; reduction, abatement, declension; shrinking &c. (contraction.) 195; coarctation|; abridgment &c. (shortening) 201; extenuation. subsidence, wane, ebb, decline; ebbing; descent &c.
306; decrement, reflux, depreciation; deterioration &c.
659; anticlimax; mitigation &c. (moderation) 174.
V. decrease, diminish, lessen; abridge &c. (shorten) 201; shrink &c. (contract) 195; drop off, fall off, tail off; fall away, waste, wear; wane, ebb, decline; descend &c.
38. Adj. unincreased &c. (see increase &c.35)[obs3]; decreased &c. v.; decreasing &c. v.; on the wane &c. n.
Phr. "a gilded halo hovering round decay" [Byron]; "fine by degrees and beautifully less" [Prior]. 3.
Addition.-N. addition, annexation, adjection[obs3]; junction &c.
43; superposition, superaddition, superjunction[obs3], superfetation; accession, reinforcement; increase &c.
35; increment, supplement; accompaniment &c.
V. add, annex, affix, superadd[obs3], subjoin, superpose; clap on, saddle on; tack to, append, tag; ingraft[obs3]; saddle with; sprinkle; introduce &c. (interpose) 228; insert &c.
300. become added, accrue; advene[obs3], supervene. reinforce, reenforce, restrengthen[obs3]; swell the ranks of; augment &c.
Adj. added &c. v.; additional; supplemental, supplementary; suppletory[obs3], subjunctive; adjectitious[obs3], adscititious[obs3], ascititious[obs3]; additive, extra, accessory.
Phr. adde parvum parvo magnus acervus erit[Lat]. #38.
Subtraction.-N. subtraction, subduction|!; deduction, retrenchment; removal, withdrawal; ablation, sublation[obs3]; abstraction &c. (taking) 789; garbling,, &c. v. mutilation, detruncation[obs3]; amputation; abscission, excision, recision; curtailment &c.
201; minuend, subtrahend; decrease &c.
V. subduct, subtract; deduct, deduce; bate, retrench; remove, withdraw, take from, take away; detract. garble, mutilate, amputate, detruncate[obs3]; cut off, cut away, cut out; abscind[obs3], excise; pare, thin, prune, decimate; abrade, scrape, file; geld, castrate; eliminate. diminish &c.
36; curtail &c. (shorten) 201; deprive of &c. (take) 789; weaken.
Adj. subtracted &c. v.; subtractive.
88; adjective, addendum; complement, supplement; continuation. rider, offshoot, episode, side issue, corollary; piece[Fr]; flap, lappet, skirt, embroidery, trappings, cortege; tail, suffix &c. (sequel) 65; wing.
V. remain; be left &c. adj.; exceed, survive; leave. Adj. remaining, left; left behind left over; residual, residuary; over, odd; unconsumed, sedimentary; surviving; net; exceeding, over and above; outlying, outstanding; cast off &c.
782; superfluous &c. (redundant) 641. #40a. [Thing deducted.] Decrement.-N. decrement, discount, defect, loss, deduction; afterglow; eduction[obs3]; waste. #41. [Forming a whole without coherence.] Mixture.-N. mixture, admixture, commixture, commixtion[obs3]; commixion[obs3], intermixture, alloyage[obs3], matrimony; junction &c.
48; miscegenation. impregnation; infusion, diffusion suffusion, transfusion; infiltration; seasoning, sprinkling, interlarding; interpolation &c.
S.]; catalo[obs3]; cross, hybrid, mongrel. V. mix; join &c.
48; commix, immix[obs3], intermix; mix up with, mingle; commingle, intermingle, bemingle[obs3]; shuffle &c. (derange) 61; pound together; hash up, stir up; knead, brew; impregnate with; interlard &c. (interpolate) 228; intertwine, interweave &c.
Junction.-N. junction; joining &c. v.; joinder[Law], union connection, conjunction, conjugation; annexion[obs3], annexation, annexment[obs3]; astriction[obs3], attachment, compagination[obs3], vincture[obs3], ligation, alligation[obs3]; accouplement[obs3]; marriage &c. (wedlock,) 903; infibulation[obs3], inosculation[obs3], symphysis[Anat], anastomosis, confluence, communication, concatenation; meeting, reunion; assemblage &c.
72. coition, copulation; sex, sexual congress, sexual conjunction, sexual intercourse, love-making. joint, joining, juncture, pivot, hinge, articulation, commissure[obs3], seam, gore, gusset, suture, stitch; link &c.
45; miter mortise. closeness, tightness, &c. adj.; coherence &c.
Adj. joined &c. v.; joint; conjoint, conjunct; corporate, compact; hand in hand. firm, fast, close, tight, taut, taught, secure, set, intervolved |; inseparable, indissoluble, insecable[obs3], severable.
Adv. jointly &c. adj.; in conjunction with &c. (in addition to) 37; fast, firmly, &c. adj.; intimately.
Phr. tria juncta in uno[Lat]. #44.
Disjunction.-N. disjunction, disconnection, disunity, disunion, disassociation, disengagement; discontinuity &c.
70; abjunction[obs3]; cataclasm[obs3]; inconnection[obs3]; abstraction, abstractedness; isolation; insularity, insulation; oasis; island; separateness &c. adj.; severalty; disjecta membra[Lat]; dispersion &c. 73; apportionment &c.
49; cutting instrument &c (sharpness) 253; buzzsaw, circular saw, rip saw. separatist.
226; disintegrate, dismember, disbranch[obs3], disband; disperse &c.
73; dislocate, disjoint; break up; mince; comminute &c. (pulverize) 330; apportion &c.
786. part, part company; separate, leave.
Adj. disjoined &c. v.; discontinuous &c.
70; multipartite[obs3], abstract; disjunctive; secant; isolated &c. v.; insular, separate, disparate, discrete, apart, asunder, far between, loose, free; unattached, unannexed, unassociated, unconnected; distinct; adrift; straggling; rift, reft[obs3]. [capable of being cut] scissile[Chem], divisible, discerptible[obs3], partible, separable.
Adv. separately &c. adj.; one by one, severally, apart; adrift, asunder, in twain; in the abstract, abstractedly. #45. [Connecting medium.] Connection.-N. vinculum, link; connective, connection; junction &c.
V. bridge over, span; connect &c.
43; hang &c. 214. #46.
Coherence.-N. coherence, adherence, adhesion, adhesiveness; concretion, accretion; conglutination, agglutination, agglomeration; aggregation; consolidation, set, cementation; sticking, soldering &c. v.; connection; dependence. tenacity, toughness; stickiness &c.
352; inseparability, inseparableness; bur, remora. conglomerate, concrete &c. (density) 321.
Adj. cohesive, adhesive, adhering, cohering &c. v.; tenacious, tough; sticky &c.
352. united, unseparated, unsessile[obs3], inseparable, inextricable, infrangible[obs3]; compact &c. (dense) 321. #47. [Want of adhesion, nonadhesion, immiscibility.] Incoherence.-N. nonadhesion[obs3]; immiscibility; incoherence; looseness &c. adj.; laxity; relaxation; loosening &c. v.; freedom; disjunction &c.
V. make loose &c. adj.; loosen, slacken, relax; unglue &c.
46; detach &c. (disjoin) 44.
Adj. nonadhesive, immiscible; incoherent, detached, loose, baggy, slack, lax, relaxed, flapping, streaming; disheveled; segregated, like grains of sand unconsolidated &c.
43; union, unification, synthesis, incorporation, amalgamation, embodiment, coalescence, crasis[obs3], fusion, blending, absorption, centralization. alloy, compound, amalgam, composition, tertium quid[Lat]; resultant, impregnation.
V. combine, unite, incorporate, amalgamate, embody, absorb, reembody[obs3], blend, merge, fuse, melt into one, consolidate, coalesce, centralize, impregnate; put together, lump together; cement a union, marry.
Adj. combined &c. v.; impregnated with, ingrained; imbued inoculated. #49.
Decomposition.-N. decomposition, analysis, dissection, resolution, catalysis, dissolution; corruption &c. (uncleanness) 653; dispersion &c.
V. decompose, decompound; analyze, disembody, dissolve; resolve into its elements, separate into its elements; electrolyze[Chem]; dissect, decentralize, break up; disperse &c.
73; unravel &c. (unroll) 313; crumble into dust. Adj. decomposed &c. v.; catalytic, analytical; resolvent, separative, solvent. 4.
Whole. [Principal part.]-N. whole, totality, integrity; totalness &c. adj[obs3].; entirety, ensemble, collectiveness[obs3]; unity &c.
642; lion's share, Benjamin's mess; the long and the short; nearly, all, almost all.
V. form a whole, constitute a whole; integrate, embody, amass; aggregate &c. (assemble) 72; amount to, come to.
Adj. whole, total, integral, entire; complete &c.
52; one, individual. unbroken, intact, uncut, undivided, unsevered[obs3], unclipped[obs3], uncropped, unshorn; seamless; undiminished; undemolished, undissolved, undestroyed, unbruised. indivisible, indissoluble, indissolvable[obs3], indiscerptible[obs3]. wholesale, sweeping; comprehensive.
Phr. tout bien ou rien[Fr]. #51.
Part.-N. part, portion; dose; item, particular; aught, any; division, ward; subdivision, section; chapter, clause, count, paragraph, verse; article, passage; sector, segment; fraction, fragment; cantle, frustum; detachment, parcel. piece[Fr], lump, bit cut, cutting; chip, chunk, collop[obs3], slice, scale; lamina &c.
56; sarmentum[obs3]. compartment; department &c. (class) 75; county &c. (region) 181.
V. part, divide, break &c. (disjoin) 44; partition &c. (apportion) 786. Adj. fractional, fragmentary; sectional, aliquot; divided &c. v.; in compartments, multifid[obs3]; disconnected; partial.
Adv. partly, in part, partially; piecemeal, part by part; by installments, by snatches, by inches, by driblets; bit by bit, inch by inch, foot by foot, drop by drop; in detail, in lots. #52.
Completeness.-N. completeness &c. adj.; completion &c.
729; integration; allness[obs3]. entirety; perfection &c.
650; solidity, solidarity; unity; all; ne plus ultra[Lat], ideal, limit. complement, supplement, make-weight; filling, up &c. v. impletion[obs3]; saturation, saturity|; high water; high tide, flood tide, spring tide; fill, load, bumper, bellyful[obs3]; brimmer[obs3]; sufficiency &c.
Adj. complete, entire; whole &c. 50; perfect &c.
Phr. falsus in uno falsus in omnibus [Latin: false in one thing, false in everything]; omnem movere lapidem[Lat]; una scopa nuova spazza bene [Italian]. #53.
Incompleteness.-N. incompleteness &c. adj.; deficiency, short # measure; shortcoming &c.
640; imperfection &c. 651; immaturity &c. (nonpreparation) 674; half measures. [part wanting] defect, deficit, defalcation, omission; caret; shortage; interval &c.
198; break &c. (discontinuity) 70; noncompletion &c. 730; missing link. missing piece, missing part, gap, hole, lacuna. V. be incomplete &c. adj.; fall short of &c.
304; lack &c. (be insufficient) 640; neglect &c.
460. Adj. incomplete; imperfect &c.
651; unfinished; uncompleted &c. (see complete &c.
Composition.-N. composition, constitution, crasis[obs3]; combination &c.
48; inclusion, admission, comprehension, reception; embodiment; formation.
Exclusion.-N. exclusion, nonadmission, omission, exception, rejection, repudiation; exile &c. (seclusion) 893; noninclusion[obs3], preclusion, prohibition. separation, segregation, seposition[obs3], elimination, expulsion; cofferdam.
V. be excluded from &c. exclude, bar; leave out, shut out, bar out; reject, repudiate, blackball; lay apart, put apart, set apart, lay aside, put aside; relegate, segregate; throw overboard; strike off, strike out; neglect &c.
460; banish &c. (seclude) 893; separate.&c. (disjoin) 44. pass over, omit; garble; eliminate, weed, winnow.
Adj. excluding &c. v.; exclusive, excluded &c. v.; unrecounted[obs3], not included in; inadmissible.
Adv. exclusive of, barring; except; with the exception of; save; bating. #56.
Component.-N. component; component part, integral part, integrant part[obs3]; element, constituent, ingredient, leaven; part and parcel; contents; appurtenance; feature; member &c. (part) 51; personnel.
V. enter into, enter into the composition of; be a component &c. n; be part of, form part of &c.
51; merge in, be merged in; be implicated in; share in &c. (participate) 778; belong to, appertain to; combine, inhere in, unite. form, make, constitute, compose.
Adj. forming &c. v. inclusive. #57.
Extraneousness.-N. extraneousness &c. adj.; extrinsicality &c. 6[obs3]; exteriority &c.
220[obs3]; alienage[obs3], alienism; foreign body, foreign substance, foreign element; alien, stranger, intruder, interloper, foreigner, novus homo[Lat], newcomer, immigrant, emigrant; creole, Africander[obs3]; outsider; Dago*, wop, mick, polak, greaser, slant, Easterner [U.S.], Dutchman, tenderfoot.
Adj. extraneous, foreign, alien, ulterior; tramontane, ultramontane. excluded &c.
Adv. in foreign parts, in foreign lands; abroad, beyond seas; over sea on one's travels. SECTION IV.
Order.-N. order, regularity, uniformity, symmetry, lucidus ordo[Lat]; music of the spheres. gradation, progression; series &c. (continuity) 69. subordination; course, even tenor, routine; method, disposition, arrangement, array, system, economy, discipline orderliness &c. adj. rank, place &c. (term) 71.
V. be in order, become in order &c. adj.; form, fall in, draw up; arrange itself, range itself, place itself; fall into one's place, take one's place, take one's rank; rally round. adjust, methodize, regulate, systematize.
Adj. orderly, regular; in order, in trim, in apple-pie order, in its proper place; neat, tidy, en regle[Fr], well regulated, correct, methodical, uniform, symmetrical, shipshape, businesslike, systematic; unconfused &c. (see confuse &c.
61; irregularity; anomaly &c. (unconformity) 83; anarchy, anarchism; want of method; untidiness &c. adj.; disunion; discord &c.
24. confusion; confusedness &c. adj.; mishmash, mix; disarray, jumble, huddle, litter, lumber; cahotage[obs3]; farrago; mess, mash, muddle, muss [U.
S.], hash, hodgepodge; hotch-potch[obs3], hotch-pot[obs3]; imbroglio, chaos, omnium gatherum[Lat], medley; mere mixture &c.
41; fortuitous concourse of atoms, disjecta membra[Lat], rudis indigestaque moles [Lat][Ovid]. complexity &c.
V. be disorderly &c. adj.; ferment, play at cross-purposes. put out of order; derange &c.
61; ravel &c. 219; ruffle, rumple.
61; topsy-turvy &c. (inverted) 218; shapeless &c.
241; disjointed, out of joint. troublous[obs3]; riotous &c. (violent) 173. complex &c.
Adv. irregularly &c. adj.; by fits, by fits and snatches, by fits and starts; pellmell; higgledy-piggledy; helter-skelter, harum-scarum; in a ferment; at sixes and sevens, at cross-purposes; upside down &c.
Adj. gnarled, knarled[obs3]. complex, complexed; intricate, complicated, perplexed, involved, raveled, entangled, knotted, tangled, inextricable; irreducible. #60. [Reduction to Order.] Arrangement.-N. arrangement; plan &c. 626; preparation &c.
Adj. arranged &c. v.; embattled, in battle array; cut and dried; methodical, orderly, regular, systematic.
In vast cumbrous array" [Churchill]. #61. [Subversion of Order; bringing into disorder.] Derangement.-N. derangement &c. v.; disorder &c.
59; evection[obs3], discomposure, disturbance; disorganization, deorganization[obs3]; dislocation; perturbation, interruption; shuffling &c. v.; inversion &c.
218; corrugation &c. (fold) 258; involvement. interchange &c.
V. derange; disarrange, misarrange[obs3]; displace, misplace; mislay, discompose, disorder; deorganize[obs3], discombobulate, disorganize; embroil, unsettle, disturb, confuse, trouble, perturb, jumble, tumble; shuffle, randomize; huddle, muddle, toss, hustle, fumble, riot; bring into disorder, put into disorder, throw into disorder &c.
Adj. deranged &c. v.; syncretic, syncretistic[obs3]; mussy, messy; flaky; random, unordered [U.S.]. 2.
Precedence.-N. precedence; coming before &c. v.; the lead, le pas; superiority &c.
642; antecedence, antecedency[obs3]; anteriority &c. (front) 234[obs3]; precursor &c.
Adj. preceding &c. v.; precedent, antecedent; anterior; prior &c.
116; before; former; foregoing; beforementioned[obs3], abovementioned[obs3], aforementioned; aforesaid, said; precursory, precursive[obs3]; prevenient[obs3], preliminary, prefatory, introductory; prelusive, prelusory; proemial[obs3], preparatory.
Adv. before; in advance &c. (precession) 280.
Phr. seniores priores[Lat]; prior tempore prior jure[Lat]. #63.
Sequence.-N. sequence, coming after; going after &c. # (following) 281; consecution, succession; posteriority &c.
117. Adv. after, subsequently; behind &c. (rear) 235. #64.
673; overture, exordium[Lat], symphony; premises. prefigurement &c. 511; omen &c.
Adj. precursory; prelusive, prelusory, preludious[obs3]; proemial[obs3], introductory, prefatory, prodromous[obs3], inaugural, preliminary; precedent &c. (prior) 116. Phr. "a precedent embalms a principle" [Disraeli]. #65.
153; egg, rudiment; genesis, primogenesis[obs3], birth, nativity, cradle, infancy; start, inception, creation, starting point &c.
Adj. beginning &c. v.; initial, initiatory, initiative; inceptive, introductory, incipient; proemial[obs3], inaugural; inchoate, inchoative[obs3]; embryonic, rudimental; primogenial[obs3]; primeval, primitive, primordial &c. (old) 124; aboriginal; natal, nascent. first, foremost, leading; maiden. begun &c. v.; just begun &c. v.
Phr. let's get going! let's get this show on the road! up and at 'em! aller Anfang ist schwer [Ger]; dimidium facti qui coepit habet [Lat][Cicero]; omnium rerum principia parva sunt [Lat][Cicero]. #67.
360; end of all things; finality; eschatology. break up, commencement de la fin, last stage, turning point; coup de grace, deathblow; knock-out, -blow; sockdolager* [obs3][U.S.].
V. end, close, finish, terminate, conclude, be all over; expire; die &c.
Adj. ending &c. v.; final, terminal, definitive; crowning &c. (completing) 729; last, ultimate; hindermost[obs3]; rear &c.
235; caudal; vergent[obs3]. conterminate[obs3], conterminous, conterminable[obs3]. ended &c. v.; at an end; settled, decided, over, played out, set at rest; conclusive, penultimate; last but one, last but two, &c. unbegun, uncommenced[obs3]; fresh.
Adv. finally &c. adj.; in fine; at the last; once for all.
Phr. "as high as Heaven and as deep as hell" [Beaumont & Fletcher]; deficit omne quod nascitur [Lat][Quintilian]; en toute chose il faut considerer la fin[Fr][obs3]; finem respice[Lat][obs3]; ultimus Romanorum[Lat]. #68.
Middle.-N. middle, midst, mediety|, mean &c.
29; medium, middle term; center &c.
628; mezzo termine[It]; juste milieu &c.
628[Fr]; halfway house, nave, navel, omphalos[obs3]; nucleus, nucleolus. equidistance[obs3], bisection, half distance; equator, diaphragm, midriff; intermediate &c.
Adj. middle, medial, mesial[Med], mean, mid, median, average; middlemost, midmost; mediate; intermediate &c. (interjacent) 228[obs3]; equidistant; central &c.
Adv. continuously &c. adj.; seriatim; in a line &c. n.; in succession, in turn; running, gradually, step by step, gradatim[Lat], at a stretch; in file, in column, in single file, in Indian file. #70. [Interrupted sequence.] Discontinuity.-N. discontinuity; disjunction &c.
44; anacoluthon[obs3]; interruption, break, fracture, flaw, fault, crack, cut; gap &c. (interval) 198; solution of continuity, caesura; broken thread; parenthesis, episode, rhapsody, patchwork; intermission; alternation &c. (periodicity) 138; dropping fire.
V. be discontinuous &c. adj.; alternate, intermit, sputter, stop and start, hesitate. discontinue, pause, interrupt; intervene; break, break in upon, break off; interpose &c.
228; break the thread, snap the thread; disconnect &c. (disjoin) 44; dissever.
Adj. discontinuous, unsuccessive[obs3], broken, interrupted, dicousu[Fr]; disconnected, unconnected; discrete, disjunctive; fitful &c. (irregular) 139; spasmodic, desultory; intermitting, occasional &c. v., intermittent; alternate; recurrent &c. (periodic) 138.
Adv. at intervals; by snatches, by jerks, by skips, by catches, by fits and starts; skippingly[obs3], per saltum[Lat]; longo intervallo[It].
Phr. like "angel visits few and far between" [Campbell]. #71.
Term.-N. term, rank, station, stage, step; degree &c.
26; scale, remove, grade, link, peg, round of the ladder, status, position, place, point, mark, pas, period, pitch; stand, standing; footing, range.
V. hold a place, occupy a place, find a place, fall into a place &c. n. 3.
73} assemblage; collection, collocation, colligation[obs3]; compilation, levy, gathering, ingathering, muster, attroupement[obs3]; team; concourse, conflux[obs3], congregation, contesseration|, convergence &c.
Adj. assembled &c. v.; closely packed, dense, serried, crowded to suffocation, teeming, swarming, populous; as thick as hops; all of a heap, fasciculated, cumulative.
Phr. the plot thickens; acervatim[Lat]; tibi seris tibi metis[Lat]. #73.
291; aspersion; scattering &c. v.; dissemination, diffusion, dissipation, distribution; apportionment &c. 786; spread, respersion[obs3], circumfusion[obs3], interspersion, spargefaction[obs3]; affusion[obs3]. waifs and estrays[obs3], flotsam and jetsam, disjecta membra[Lat], [Hor.]; waveson[obs3].
V. disperse, scatter, sow, broadcast, disseminate, diffuse, shed, spread, bestrew, overspread, dispense, disband, disembody, dismember, distribute; apportion &c.
786; blow off, let out, dispel, cast forth, draught off; strew, straw, strow[obs3]; ted; spirtle[obs3], cast, sprinkle; issue, deal out, retail, utter; resperse[obs3], intersperse; set abroach[obs3], circumfuse[obs3]. turn adrift, cast adrift; scatter to the winds; spread like wildfire, disperse themselves.
Adj. unassembled &c. (see assemble &c.
72); dispersed &c. v.; sparse, dispread, broadcast, sporadic, widespread; epidemic &c. (general) 78; adrift, stray; disheveled, streaming.
Adv. sparsim[obs3], here and there, passim. #74. [Place of meeting.] Focus.-N. focus; point of convergence &c. 290; corradiation[obs3]; center &c.
222; gathering place, resort haunt retreat; venue; rendezvous; rallying point, headquarters, home, club; depot &c. (store) 636; trysting place; place of meeting, place of resort, place of assignation; point de reunion; issue.
V. bring to a point, bring to a focus, bring to an issue. 4.
Inclusion. [Comprehension under, or reference to a class.]-N. {opp.
77} inclusion, admission, comprehension, reception. composition &c. (inclusion in a compound) 54.
Adj. included, including &c. v.; inclusive; congener, congenerous; of the same class &c.
75; encircling. Phr. a maximis ad minima[Lat], et hoc genus omne[Lat], &c., etc.; et coetera[Lat]. #77.
78} speciality, specialite[obs3]; individuality, individuity|; particularity, peculiarity; idiocrasy &c. (tendency) 176[obs3]; personality, characteristic, mannerism, idiosyncrasy; specificness &c. adj[obs3].; singularity &c. (unconformity) 83; reading, version, lection; state; trait; distinctive feature; technicality; differentia. particulars, details, items, counts; minutiae.
I, self, I myself; myself, himself, herself, itself. V. specify, particularize, individualize, realize, specialize, designate, determine; denote, indicate, point out, select. descend to particulars, enter into detail, go into detail, come to the point.
Adj. special, particular, individual, specific, proper, personal, original, private, respective, definite, determinate, especial, certain, esoteric, endemic, partial, party, peculiar, appropriate, several, characteristic, diagnostic, exclusive; singular &c. (exceptional) 83; idiomatic; idiotypical; typical. this, that; yon, yonder.
Phr. le style est l'homme meme[Fr]. 5.
Normality.-N. normality, normalcy, normalness[obs3]; # familiarity, naturalness; commonness (frequency) 136; rule, standard (conformity) 82; customary (habit) 613; standard, pattern (prototype) 22. V. normalize, standardize. Adj. normal, natural, unexceptional; common, usual (frequency) 136; #81.
Multiformity.-N. multiformity, omniformity[obs3]; variety, diversity; multifariousness &c. adj.; varied assortment. dissimilarity &c.
Phr. "harmoniously confused" [Pope]; "variety's the very spice of life" [Cowper]. #82.
83} conformity, conformance; observance; habituation; naturalization; conventionality &c. (custom) 613; agreement &c.
Adj. conformable to rule; regular &c.
136; according to regulation, according to rule, according to Hoyle, according to Cocker, according to Gunter; en regle [Fr], selon les regles[Fr], well regulated, orderly; symmetric &c.
Phr. cela va sans dire[Fr]; ex pede Herculem[Lat]; noscitur a sociis [Lat]; ne e quovis ligno Mercurius fiat [Lat][Erasmus]; "they are happy men whose natures sort with their vocations" [Bacon].
The nail that sticks up will get hammered down" [Japanese saying]; "Stick your neck out and it may get cut off." #83.
243; adelomorphous[obs3], bisexual, hermaphrodite, monoclinous[obs3]. qualified &c.
469. singular, unique, one-of-a-kind. newfangled, novel, non-classical; original, unconventional, unheard of, unfamiliar; undescribed, unprecedented, unparalleled, unexampled.
Adv. unconformably &c. adj.; except, unless, save barring, beside, without, save and except, let alone. however, yet, but. once in a blue moon, once in a million years.
Int. what on earth! what in the world!
Can you top that?; Sacre bleu [Fr].
Phr. never was seen the like, never was heard the like, never was known the like. I could hardly believe it; I saw it, but I didn't believe it. SECTION V.
Numeration.-N. numeration; numbering &c. v.; pagination; tale, recension[obs3], enumeration, summation, reckoning, computation, supputation[obs3]; calculation, calculus; algorithm, algorism[obs3], rhabdology[obs3], dactylonomy[obs3]; measurement &c.
Adj. numeral, numerical; arithmetical, analytic, algebraic, statistical, numerable, computable, calculable; commensurable, commensurate; incommensurable, incommensurate, innumerable, unfathomable, infinite.
Adv. quantitatively; arithmetically; measurably; in numbers. #86.
100} Unity.-N. unity; oneness &c. adj.; individuality; solitude &c. (seclusion) 893; isolation &c. (disjunction) 44; unification &c.
48. one, unit, ace; individual; none else, no other.
V. be one, be alone &c. adj.; dine with Duke Humphrey[obs3]. isolate &c. (disjoin) 44. render one; unite &c. (join) 43, (combine) 48.
Phr. natura il fece [It], e poi roppe la stampa[It]; du fort au faible [obs3][Fr]; "two souls with but a single thought, two hearts that beat as one". #88.
39; context; appendage, appurtenance. coexistence, concomitance, company, association, companionship; partnership, copartnership; coefficiency[obs3]. concomitant, accessory, coefficient; companion, buddy, attendant, fellow, associate, friend, colleague; consort, spouse, mate; partner, co- partner; satellite, hanger on, fellow-traveller, shadow; escort, cortege; attribute.
V. accompany, coexist, attend; hang on, wait on; go hand in hand with; synchronize &c.
120; bear company, keep company; row in the same boat; bring in its train; associate with, couple with.
Adj. accompanying &c. v.; concomitant, fellow, twin, joint; associated with, coupled with; accessory, attendant, obbligato.
Adv. with, withal; together with, along with, in company with; hand in hand, side by side; cheek by jowl, cheek by jole[obs3]; arm in arm; therewith, herewith; and &c. (addition) 37. together, in a body, collectively.
Phr. noscitur a sociis[Lat]; virtutis fortuna comes[Lat]. #89.
Duality.-N. duality, dualism; duplicity; biplicity[obs3], biformity[obs3]; polarity; two, deuce, couple, duet, brace, pair, cheeks, twins, Castor and Pollux, gemini, Siamese twins; fellows; yoke, conjugation; dispermy[obs3], doublets, dyad, span.
V. pair[unite in pairs], couple, bracket, yoke; conduplicate[obs3]; mate, span [U.S.]. Adj. two, twin; dual, dualistic, double; binary, binomial; twin, biparous[obs3]; dyadic[Math]; conduplicate[obs3]; duplex &c.
90; biduous[obs3], binate[obs3], diphyletic[obs3], dispermic[obs3], unijugate[obs3]; tete-a-tete. coupled &c. v.; conjugate. both, both the one and the other. #90.
Duplication.-N. duplication; doubling &c. v.; gemination, ingemination[obs3]; reduplication; iteration &c. (repetition) 104; renewal.
V. double, redouble, duplicate, reduplicate; geminate; repeat &c.
Adj. double; doubled &c. v.; bicipital[obs3], bicephalous[obs3], bidental[obs3], bilabiate, bivalve, bivalvular[obs3], bifold[obs3], biform[obs3], bilateral; bifarious[obs3], bifacial[obs3]; twofold, two- sided; disomatous[obs3]; duplex; double-faced, double-headed; twin, duplicate, ingeminate[obs3]; second.
93. Pref. tri-, tris-. Phr. tria juncta in uno[Lat]. #93.
V. trisect, divide into three parts.
Adj. trifid; trisected &c. v.; tripartite, trichotomous[obs3], trisulcate[obs3].
Triadelphous[obs3], triangular, tricuspid, tricapsular[obs3], tridental[obs3], tridentate, tridentiferous[obs3], trifoliate, trifurcate, trigonal[obs3], trigrammic[obs3], trigrammatic[obs3], tripetalous[obs3], tripodal, tripodic[obs3], triquetral[obs3], triquetrous[obs3]. #95.
Quinquesection, &c.-N. division by five &c.
98; quinquesection &c.; decimation; fifth &c.
Adj. quinquefid, quinquelateral, quinquepartite; quinqevalent, pentavalent; quinquarticular[obs3]; octifid[obs3]; decimal, tenth, tithe; duodecimal, twelfth; sexagesimal[obs3], sexagenary[obs3]; hundredth, centesimal; millesimal &c. [obs3] 3.
INDETERMINATE NUMBER #100. [More than one.] Plurality.-N. plurality; a number, # a certain number; one or two, two or three &c.; a few, several; multitude &c.
102; majority. [large number] multitude &c.
102. Adj. plural, more than one, upwards of; some, several, a few; certain; not alone &c.
87. Adv. et cetera, &c., etc. among other things, inter alia[Lat]. Phr. non deficit alter [Lat]. #100a. [Less than one.] Fraction-N. fraction, fractional part; part # &c.
51. Adj. fractional, fragmentary, inconsiderable, negligible, infinitesimal. #101.
Zero.-N. zero, nothing; null, nul, naught, nought, void; cipher, goose egg; none, nobody, no one; nichts[Ger.], nixie*, nix*; zilch, zip, zippo [all slang]; not a soul; ame qui vive[Fr]; absence &c.
V. be numerous &c. adj.; swarm with, teem with, creep with; crowd, swarm, come thick upon; outnumber, multiply; people; swarm like locusts, swarm like bees.
Phr. their name is "legion"; acervatim[Lat]; en foule[Fr]; "many- headed multitude" [Sidney]; "numerous as glittering gems of morning dew" [Young]; vel prece vel pretio[Lat][obs3]. #103.
Fewness.-N. fewness &c. adj.; paucity, small number; small quantity &c.
137; handful, maniple; minority; exiguity. [Diminution of number] reduction; weeding &c. v.; elimination, sarculation|, decimation; eradication.
V. be few &c. adj. render few &c. adj.; reduce, diminish the number, weed, eliminate, cull, thin, decimate.
Adj. few; scant, scanty; thin, rare, scattered, thinly scattered, spotty, few and far between, exiguous; infrequent &c. 137; rari nantes[Latin]; hardly any, scarcely any; to be counted on one's fingers; reduced &c. v.; unrepeated[obs3].
Adv. rarely, here and there. #104.
Repetition.-N. repetition, iteration, reiteration, harping, recurrence, succession, run; battology, tautology; monotony, tautophony; rhythm &c.
138; diffuseness, pleonasm, redundancy. chimes, repetend, echo, ritornello[obs3], burden of a song, refrain; rehearsal; rechauffe[Fr], rifacimento[It], recapitulation. cuckoo &c. (imitation) 19; reverberation &c.
408; drumming &c. (roll) 407; renewal &c. (restoration) 660. twice-told tale; old story, old song; second edition, new edition; reappearance, reproduction, recursion [Comp]; periodicity &c.
Adj. repeated &c. v.; repetitional[obs3], repetitionary[obs3]; recurrent, recurring; ever recurring, thick coming; frequent, incessant; redundant, pleonastic. monotonous, harping, iterative, recursive [Math, Comp], unvaried; mocking, chiming; retold; aforesaid, aforenamed[obs3]; above-mentioned, above-said; habitual &c.
Phr. ecce iterum Crispinus[Lat]; toujours perdrix[Fr]; "cut and come again" [Crabbe]; "tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow" [Macbeth]; cantilenam eandem canis [Lat][Terence]; nullum est jam dictum quod non dictum sit prius [Lat][Terence]. #105.
Infinity.-N. infinity, infinitude, infiniteness &c. adj.; perpetuity &c.
Adv. infinitely &c. adj.; ad infinitum.
Phr. "as boundless as the sea" [Romeo and Juliet]. SECTION VI.
V. continue last endure, go on, remain, persist; intervene; elapse &c.
109; hold out. take time, take up time, fill time, occupy time. pass time, pass away time, spend time, while away time, consume time, talk against time; tide over; use time, employ time; seize an opportunity &c.
134; waste time &c. (be inactive) 683.
Adj. continuing &c. v.; on foot; permanent &c. (durable) 110.
Neverness.-N. "neverness"; absence of time, no time; dies non; Tib's eve; Greek Kalends, a blue moon.
V. elapse, lapse, flow, run, proceed, advance, pass; roll on, wear on, press on; flit, fly, slip, slide, glide; run its course. run out, expire; go by, pass by; be -past &c.
Adj. elapsing &c. v.; aoristic[obs3]; progressive.
Adv. in due time, in due season; in in due course, in due process, in the fullness of time; in time.
Adj. durable; lasting &c. v.; of long duration, of long-standing; permanent, endless, chronic, long-standing; intransient[obs3], intransitive; intransmutable[obs3], persistent; lifelong, livelong; longeval[obs3], long-lived, macrobiotic, diuturnal[obs3], evergreen, perennial; sempervirent[obs3], sempervirid[obs3]; unrelenting, unintermitting[obs3], unremitting; perpetual &c.
112. lingering, protracted, prolonged, spun out &c. v. long-pending, long- winded; slow &c.
149. transient, transient boarder, transient guest [U.S.].
V. be transient &c. adj.; flit, pass away, fly, gallop, vanish, fade, evaporate; pass away like a cloud, pass away like a summer cloud, pass away like a shadow, pass away like a dream.
V. last forever, endure forever, go on forever; have no end. eternize, perpetuate.
Adj. perpetual, eternal; everduring[obs3], everlasting, ever-living, ever-flowing; continual, sempiternal[obs3]; coeternal; endless, unending; ceaseless, incessant, uninterrupted, indesinent[obs3], unceasing; endless, unending, interminable, having no end; unfading[obs3], evergreen, amaranthine; neverending[obs3], never-dying, never-fading; deathless, immortal, undying, imperishable.
V. be instantaneous &c. adj.; twinkle, flash.
Adj. instantaneous, momentary, sudden, immediate, instant, abrupt, discontinuous, precipitous, precipitant, precipitate; subitaneous[obs3], hasty; quick as thought, quick as lightning, quick as a flash; rapid as electricity. speedy, quick, fast, fleet, swift, lively, blitz; rapid (velocity) 274.
V. fix the time, mark the time; date, register, chronicle; measure time, beat time, mark time; bear date; synchronize watches.
Adj. chronological, chronometrical[obs3], chronogrammatical[obs3]; cinquecento[Fr], quattrocento[obs3], trecento[obs3].
Adv. o'clock. #115. [False estimate of time.] Anachronism.-N. anachronism, # metachronism, parachronism, prochronism; prolepsis, misdate; anticipation, antichronism. disregard of time, neglect of time, oblivion of time. intempestivity &c.
135[obs3]. V. misdate, antedate, postdate, backdate, overdate[obs3]; anticipate; take no note of time, lose track of time; anachronize[obs3]. Adj. misdated &c. v.; undated; overdue, past due; out of date. 2.
Time with reference to Succession_ #116.
Priority.-N. priority, antecedence, anteriority, precedence, pre-existence; precession &c.
V. precede, come before; forerun; go before &c. (lead) 280; preexist; dawn; presage &c.
511; herald, usher in. be beforehand &c. (be early) 132; steal a march upon, anticipate, forestall; have the start, gain the start.
Adj. prior, previous; preceding, precedent; anterior, antecedent; pre- existing, pre-existent; former, foregoing; aforementioned, before- mentioned, abovementioned; aforesaid, said; introductory &c. (precursory) 64.
Adv. before, prior to; earlier; previously &c. adj.; afore[obs3], aforehand[obs3], beforehand, ere, theretofore, erewhile[obs3]; ere then, ere now, before then, before now; erewhile[obs3], already, yet, beforehand; on the eve of.
Phr. prior tempore prior jure[Lat]. #117.
Posteriority.-N. posteriority; succession, sequence; following &c.
281.; subsequence, supervention; futurity &c.
281 after, come after, go after; succeed, supervene; ensue, occur; step into the shoes of.
Adj. subsequent, posterior, following, after, later, succeeding, postliminious[obs3], postnate[obs3]; postdiluvial[obs3], postdiluvian[obs3]; puisne|!; posthumous; future &c.
Adj. present, actual, instant, current, existing, extant, that is; present-day, up-to-date, up-to-the-moment.
Adv. at this time, at this moment &c.
Synchronism.-N. synchronism; coexistence, coincidence; simultaneousness, simultaneity &c. adj.; concurrence, concomitance, unity of time, interim. [Having equal times] isochronism[obs3]. contemporary, coetanian[obs3].
V. coexist, concur, accompany, go hand in hand, keep pace with; synchronize.
Adj. synchronous, synchronal[obs3], synchronic, synchronical, synchronistical[obs3]; simultaneous, coexisting, coincident, concomitant, concurrent; coeval, coevous[obs3]; contemporary, contemporaneous; coetaneous[obs3]; coeternal; isochronous.
Adv. at the same time; simultaneously &c. adj.; together, in concert, during the same time; in the same breath; pari passu[Lat]; in the interim; as one. at the very moment &c.
152; eventuality. heritage, heirs posterity. prospect &c. (expectation) 507; foresight &c.
V. look forwards; anticipate &c. (expect) 507, (foresee) 510; forestall &c. (be early) 132. come on, draw on; draw near; approach, await, threaten; impend &c. (be destined) 152.
505. laudator temporis acti[Lat]; medievalist, Pre-Raphaelite; antiquary, antiquarian; archmologist &c.[obs3]; Oldbuck, Dryasdust. ancestry &c. (paternity) 166.
Time with reference to a particular Period._ #123.
Newness.-N. newness &c. adj.; novelty, recency; immaturity; youth &c.
127; gloss of novelty. innovation; renovation &c. (restoration) 660. modernism; mushroom, parvenu; latest fashion.
V. renew &c. (restore) 660; modernize.
Adj. new, novel, recent, fresh, green; young &c.
Adv. newly &c. adj.; afresh, anew, lately, just now, only yesterday, the other day; latterly, of late. not long ago, a short time ago.
Phr. di novello tutto par bello[It]; nullum est jam dictum quod non dictum est prius[Lat]; una scopa nuova spazza bene[It]. #124.
Oldness.-N. oldness &c. adj[obs3].; age, antiquity; cobwebs of antiquity; maturity; decline, decay; senility &c.
128. seniority, eldership, primogeniture; archaism &c. (the past) 122; thing of the past, relic of the past; megatherium[obs3]; Sanskrit. tradition, prescription, custom, immemorial usage, common law.
V. be old &c. adj.; have had its day, have seen its day; become old &c. adj.; age, fade, senesce.
Adv. since the world was made, since the year one, since the days of Methuselah.
Phr. vetera extollimus recentium incuriosi [Lat][Tacitus]. #125.
Adv. at sunrise &c. n.; with the sun, with the lark, "when the morning dawns".
Phr. "at shut of evening flowers" [Paradise Lost]; entre chien et loup[Fr]; "flames in the forehead of the morning sky" [Milton]; "the breezy call of incense-breathing morn" [Gray]. #126.
Phr. "midnight, the outpost of advancing day" [Longfellow]; "sable- vested Night" [Milton]; "this gorgeous arch with golden worlds inlay'd" [Young]. #127.
V. be aged &c. adj.; grow old, get old &c. adj.; age; decline, wane, dodder; senesce.
Adj. infantine[obs3], infantile; puerile; boyish, girlish, childish, babyish, kittenish; baby; newborn, unfledged, new-fledged, callow. in the cradle, in swaddling clothes, in long clothes, in arms, in leading strings; at the breast; in one's teens. #130.
Veteran.-N. veteran, old man, seer, patriarch, graybeard; grandfather, grandsire; grandam; gaffer, gammer; crone; pantaloon; sexagenarian, octogenarian, nonagenarian, centenarian; old stager; dotard &c.
501. preadamite[obs3], Methuselah, Nestor, old Parr; elders; forefathers &c. (paternity) 166.
Phr. "superfluous lags the veteran on the stage" [Johnson]. #131.
Adolescence.-N. adolescence, pubescence, majority; adultism; adultness &c. adj.; manhood, virility, maturity full age, ripe age; flower of age; prime of life, meridian of life, spring of life. man &c. 373; woman &c.
V. come of age, come to man's estate, come to years of discretion; attain majority, assume the toga virilis[Lat]; have cut one's eyeteeth, have sown one's mild oats.
Adj. adolescent, pubescent, of age; of full age, of ripe age; out of one's teens, grown up, mature, full grown, in one's prime, middle-aged, manly, virile, adult; womanly, matronly; marriageable, nubile. _3.
Time with reference to an Effect or Purpose_ #132.
133} earliness &c. adj.; morning &c.
125. punctuality; promptitude &c. (activity) 682; haste &c. (velocity) 274; suddenness &c. (instantaneity) 113. prematurity, precocity, precipitation, anticipation; a stitch in time.
Adj. early, prime, forward; prompt &c. (active) 682; summary. premature, precipitate, precocious; prevenient[obs3], anticipatory; rath[obs3]. sudden &c. (instantaneous) 113; unexpected &c.
508; near, near at hand; immediate.
Adv. early, soon, anon, betimes, rath[obs3]; eft, eftsoons; ere long, before long, shortly. beforehand; prematurely &c. adj.; precipitately &c. (hastily) 684; too soon; before its time, before one's time; in anticipation; unexpectedly &c.
Phr. no sooner said than done, immediately, if not sooner; tout vient a temps pour qui sait attendre[Fr]. #132a.
135; be kept waiting, dance attendance; kick one's heels, cool one's heels; faire antichambre[Fr][obs3]; wait impatiently; await &c. (expect) 507; sit up, sit up at night.
Adj. late, tardy, slow, behindhand, serotine[obs3], belated, postliminious[obs3], posthumous, backward, unpunctual, untimely; delayed, postponed; dilatory &c. (slow) 275; delayed &c. v.; in abeyance.
Adv. late; lateward[obs3], backward; late in the day; at sunset, at the eleventh hour, at length, at last; ultimately; after time, behind time, after the deadline; too late; too late for &c.
135. slowly, leisurely, deliberately, at one's leisure; ex post facto; sine die [parl.].
Phr. nonum prematur in annum [Lat][Horace]; "against the sunbeams serotine and lucent" [Longfellow]; ie meglio tardi che mai[It]; deliberando saepe perit occasio [Lat][Syrus]. #134.
V. seize &c. (take) 789 an opportunity, use &c. 677 an opportunity, give &c.
Adj. opportune, timely, well-timed, timeful[obs3], seasonable. providential, lucky, fortunate, happy, favorable, propitious, auspicious, critical; suitable &c.
134} untimeliness, intempestivity[obs3], unseasonableness, inexpedience; unsuitable time, improper time; unreasonableness &c. adj; evil hour; contretemps; intrusion; anachronism &c.
115. bad time, wrong time, inappropriate time, not the right occasion, unsuitable time, inopportune time, poor timing.
V. be ill timed &c. adj.; mistime, intrude, come amiss, break in upon; have other fish to fry; be busy, be occupied. lose an opportunity, throw away an opportunity, waste an opportunity, neglect &c.
Adj. ill-timed, mistimed; ill-fated, ill-omened, ill-starred; untimely, unseasonable; out of date, out of season; inopportune, timeless, intrusive, untoward, mal a propos[Fr], unlucky, inauspicious, infelicitous, unbefitting, unpropitious, unfortunate, unfavorable; unsuited &c.
647. unpunctual &c. (late) 133; too late for; premature &c. (early) 132; too soon for; wise after the event, monday morning quarterbacking, twenty- twenty hindsight.
Adv. inopportunely &c. adj.; as ill luck would have it, in an evil hour, the time having gone by, a day after the fair.
Phr. after death the doctor, after meat mustard. 3.
Frequency.-N. frequency, oftness[obs3], oftenness[obs3], commonness; repetition &c.
80; example (conformity) 82; routine, custom (habit) 613. regularity, uniformity, constancy, clock-work precision; punctuality &c. (exactness) 494; even tenor; system; routine &c. (custom) 613; formula; rule &c. (form, regulation) 697; keynote, standard, model; precedent &c. (prototype) 22; conformity &c.
104; do nothing but; keep, keep on.
Adj. frequent, many times, not rare, thickcoming[obs3], incessant, perpetual, continual, steady, constant, thick; uniform; repeated &c.
613 (habit) 613; regular (normal) 80; according to rule &c. (conformable) 82. common, everyday, usual, ordinary, familiar. old-hat, boring, well-known, trivial.
Adv. often, oft; ofttimes[obs3], oftentimes; frequently; repeatedly &c.
Infrequency.-N. infrequency, rareness, rarity; fewness &c. # 103; seldomness[obs3]; uncommonness. V. be rare &c. adj. Adj. unfrequent[obs3], infrequent; rare, rare as a blue diamond; few &c.
Periodicity.-N. periodicity, intermittence; beat; oscillation &c.
V. recur in regular order, recur in regular succession; return, revolve; come again, come in its turn; come round, come round again; beat, pulsate; alternate; intermit.
Irregularity of recurrence.-N. irregularity, uncertainty, unpunctuality; fitfulness &c. adj.; capriciousness, ecrhythmus|.
Adj. irregular, uncertain, unpunctual, capricious, desultory, fitful, flickering; rambling, rhapsodical; spasmodic; immethodical[obs3], unmethodical, variable.
Adv. irregularly &c. adj.; by fits and starts &c. (discontinuously) 70. SECTION VII.
185; transference &c. 270. changeableness &c.
Adj. changed &c. v.; newfangled; changeable &c.
606. permanence, persistence, endurance; durability; standing, status quo; maintenance, preservation, conservation; conservation; law of the Medes and Persians; standing dish.
150; persisting &c. v.; permanent; established; unchanged &c. (change &c. 140); renewed; intact, inviolate; persistent; monotonous, uncheckered[obs3]; unfailing. undestroyed, unrepealed, unsuppressed[obs3]; conservative, qualis ab incepto[Lat]; prescriptive &c. (old) 124; stationary &c.
Adv. in statu quo[Lat]; for good, finally; at a stand, at a standstill; uti possidetis[Lat]; without a shadow of turning.
Phr. esto perpetua[Lat]; nolumus leges Angliae mutari[Lat][obs3]; j'y suis et j'y ereste[Fr]. #142. [Change from action to rest.] Cessation.-N. cessation, discontinuance, desistance, desinence[obs3]. intermission, remission; suspense, suspension; interruption; stop; stopping &c. v.; closure, stoppage, halt; arrival &c.
292. pause, rest, lull, respite, truce, drop; interregnum, abeyance; cloture [U.S. congress]. dead stop, dead stand, dead lock; finis, cerrado[Sp]; blowout, burnout, meltdown, disintegration; comma, colon, semicolon, period, full stop; end &c. 67; death &c.
Int. hold! stop! enough! avast! have done! a truce to! soft! leave off! tenez[Fr]!
I pause for a reply" [Julius Caesar]. #143.
Continuance in action.-N. continuance, continuation; run; perpetuation, prolongation; persistence &c. (perseverance) 604a; repetition &c.
Adj. continuing &c. v.; uninterrupted, unintermitting[obs3], unvarying, unshifting[obs3]; unreversed[obs3], unstopped, unrevoked, unvaried; sustained; undying &c. (perpetual) 112; inconvertible.
Int. keep it up! go to it! right away! right on! attaboy!
240; remodel, new model, refound[obs3], reform, reorganize; assimilate to, bring to, reduce to. Adj. converted into &c. v.; convertible, resolvable into; transitional; naturalized.
Adv. gradually, &c. (slowly) 275 in transitu &c. (transference) 270[Lat]. #145.
Reversion.-N. reversion, return; revulsion. turning point, turn of the tide; status quo ante bellum; calm before a storm; alternation &c. (periodicity) 138; inversion &c. 219; recoil &c.
277; retreat, regression, retrogression &c.
661; atavism; vicinism[obs3]; V. revert, turn back, regress; relapse &c.
660; undo, unmake; turn the tide, roll back the tide, turn the scale, tip the scale. Adj. reverting &c. v.; regressive, revulsive, reactionary; retrorse[obs3].
Adv. a rebours[Fr]. #146. [Sudden or violent change.] Revolution.-N. revolution, bouleversement, subversion, break up; destruction &c.
V. revolutionize; new model, remodel, recast; strike out something new, break with the past; change the face of, unsex.
Adj. substituted &c.; ersatz; phony; vicarious, subdititious[obs3].
Changeableness.-N. changeableness &c. adj.; mutability, inconstancy; versatility, mobility; instability, unstable equilibrium; vacillation &c. (irresolution) 605; fluctuation, vicissitude; alternation &c. (oscillation) 314. restlessness &c. adj. fidgets, disquiet; disquietude, inquietude; unrest; agitation &c.
315. moon, Proteus, chameleon, quicksilver, shifting sands, weathercock, harlequin, Cynthia of the minute, April showers[obs3]; wheel of Fortune; transientness &c.
314; vibrate between, two extremes, oscillate between, two extremes; alternate; have as many phases as the moon.
Adj. changeable, changeful; changing &c.
140; mutable, variable, checkered, ever changing; protean, proteiform|; versatile. unstaid[obs3], inconstant; unsteady, unstable, unfixed, unsettled; fluctuating &c. v.; restless; agitated &c.
315; erratic, fickle; irresolute &c.
608; touch and go; inconsonant, fitful, spasmodic; vibratory; vagrant, wayward; desultory; afloat; alternating; alterable, plastic, mobile; transient &c.
Adv. seesaw &c. (oscillation) 314; off and on.
Phr. "a rolling stone gathers no moss"; pictra mossa non fa muschis[It]; honores mutant mores[Lat]; varium et mutabile semper femina [Lat][Vergil]. #150.
Stability.-N. stability; immutability &c. adj.; unchangeability, &c. adj.; unchangeableness|!; constancy; stable equilibrium, immobility, soundness, vitality, stabiliment[obs3], stiffness, ankylosis[obs3], solidity, aplomb. establishment, fixture; rock, pillar, tower, foundation, leopard's spots, Ethiopia's skin. permanence &c.
184; build one's house on a rock.
Adj. unchangeable, immutable; unaltered, unalterable; not to be changed, constant; permanent &c.
606. transfixed, stuck fast, aground, high and dry, stranded. [movable object rendered unmovable] stuck, jammed; unremovable; quiescent &c.
659. indefeasible, irretrievable, intransmutable[obs3], incommutable[obs3], irresoluble[obs3], irrevocable, irreversible, reverseless[obs3], inextinguishable, irreducible; indissoluble, indissolvable[obs3]; indestructible, undying, imperishable, incorruptible, indelible, indeciduous[obs3]; insusceptible, insusceptible of change.
Phr. littera scripta manet[Lat]. _Present Events_ #151.
Adj. happening &c. v; going on, doing, current; in the wind, in the air, afloat; on foot, afoot, on the tapis[obs3]; at issue, in question; incidental. eventful, stirring, bustling, full of incident; memorable, momentous, signal.
Adv. eventually; in the event of, in case, just in case; in the course of things; as things, times go; as the world goes, wags; as the tree falls, cat jumps; as it may turn out, happen.
Destiny.-N. destiny &c. (necessity) 601; future existence, post existence; hereafter; future state, next world, world to come, after life; futurity &c.
121; everlasting life, everlasting death; life beyond the grave, world beyond the grave; prospect &c. (expectation) 507.
V. impend; hang over, lie over; threaten, loom, await, come on, approach, stare one in the face; foreordain, preordain; predestine, doom, have in store for.
Adv. in time, the long run; all in good time; eventually &c.
151; whatever may happen &c. (certainly) 474; as chance &c.
156 would have it. SECTION VIII.
CONSTANCY OF SEQUENCE IN EVENTS #153. [Constant antecedent].
V. be the cause &c. n of; originate; give origin to, give rise, to, give occasion to; cause, occasion, sow the seeds of, kindle, suscitate[obs3]; bring on, bring to bring pass, bring about; produce; create &c.
Adj. caused &c. v; causal, original; primary, primitive, primordial; aboriginal; protogenal[obs3]; radical; embryonic, embryotic[obs3]; in embryo, in ovo[Lat]; seminal, germinal; at the bottom of; connate, having a common origin.
Adv. because &c. 155; behind the scenes.
Phr. causa latet vis est notissima [Lat][Ovid]; felix qui potuit rerum cognoscere causas [Lat][Vergil]. #154. [Constant sequent.] Effect.- N. effect, consequence; aftergrowth[obs3], aftercome[obs3]; derivative, derivation; result; resultant, resultance[obs3]; upshot, issue, denouement; end &c.
67; development, outgrowth, fruit, crop, harvest, product, bud. production, produce, work, handiwork, fabric, performance; creature, creation; offspring, offshoot; firstfruits[obs3], firstlings; heredity, telegony[obs3]; premices premises[obs3].
Adj. owing to; resulting from &c. v.; derivable from; due to; caused by &c.
153; dependent upon; derived from, evolved from; derivative; hereditary; telegonous[obs3].
Adv. of course, it follows that, naturally, consequently; as a consequence, in consequence; through, all along of, necessarily, eventually.
153; theorize; tell how it comes; put the saddle on the right horse.
Adj. attributed &c. v.; attributable &c. v.; referable to, referrible to[obs3], due to, derivable from; owing to &c. (effect) 154; putative; ecbatic[obs3].
V. chance, hap, turn up; fall to one's lot; be one's -fate &c.
601; stumble on light upon; take one's chance &c.
Adj. casual, fortuitous, accidental, adventitious, causeless, incidental, contingent, uncaused, undetermined, indeterminate; random, statistical; possible &c.
Phr. "grasps the skirts of happy chance" [Tennyson]; "the accident of an accident" [Lord Thurlow].
There but for the grace of God go I." [2] The word Chance has two distinct meanings: the first, the absence of assignable cause, as above; and the second, the absence of design-for the latter see 621. 2.
Power.-N. power; potency, potentiality; jiva[obs3]; puissance, might, force, energy &c.
171; dint; right hand, right arm; ascendency[obs3], sway, control; prepotency, prepollence|; almightiness, omnipotence; authority &c.
159. ability; ableness &c. adj[obs3].; competency; efficacy; efficiency, productivity, expertise (skill) 698; validity, cogency; enablement[obs3]; vantage ground; influence &c.
Adj. powerful, puissant; potential; capable, able; equal to, up to; cogent, valid; efficient, productive; effective, effectual, efficacious, adequate, competent; multipotent[obs3], plenipotent[obs3], omnipotent; almighty. forcible &c. adj. (energetic) 171; influential &c.
Adv. powerfully &c. adj.; by virtue of, by dint of.
732. helplessness &c. adj.; prostration, paralysis, palsy, apoplexy, syncope, sideration|, deliquium|[Lat], collapse, exhaustion, softening of the brain, inanition; emasculation, orchiotomy [Med], orchotomy[Med]. cripple, old woman, muff, powder puff, creampuff, pussycat, wimp, mollycoddle; eunuch.
640; inefficacious &c. (useless) 645.
Phr. der kranke Mann[Ger]; "desirous still but impotent to rise" [Shenstone]; the spirit is willing but the flesh is weak. #159. [Degree of power.] Strength.-N. strength; power &c.
689; refect[obs3]; reinforce, reenforce &c. (restore) 660.
Adv. strongly &c. adj.; by force &c. n.; by main force &c. (by compulsion) 744.
Phr. "our withers are unwrung" [Hamlet].
Blut und Eisen[Ger]; coelitus mihi vires[Lat]; du fort au diable[Fr]; en habiles gens[Lat]; ex vi termini; flecti non frangi[Lat]; "he that wrestles with us strengthens our nerves and sharpens our skill" [Burke]; "inflexible in faith invincible in arms" [Beattie]. #160.
Weakness.-N. weakness &c. adj.; debility, atony[obs3], relaxation, languor, enervation; impotence &c.
Adj. weak, feeble, debile|; impotent &c.
Phr. non sum qualis eram[Lat]. 3.
357. spontaneous generation; archegenesis[obs3], archebiosis[obs3]; biogenesis, abiogenesis[obs3], digenesis[obs3], dysmerogenesis[obs3], eumerogenesis[obs3], heterogenesis[obs3], oogenesis, merogenesis[obs3], metogenesis[obs3], monogenesis[obs3], parthenogenesis, homogenesis[obs3], xenogenesis|[obs3]; authorship, publication; works, opus, oeuvre. biogeny[obs3], dissogeny[obs3], xenogeny[obs3]; tocogony[obs3], vacuolization. edifice, building, structure, fabric, erection, pile, tower, flower, fruit.
168; create; beget, get, generate, fecundate, impregnate; procreate, progenerate[obs3], propagate; engender; bring into being, call into being, bring into existence; breed, hatch, develop, bring up. induce, superinduce; suscitate|; cause &c.
Adj. produced, producing &c. v.; productive of; prolific &c.
168; creative; formative, genetic, genial, genital; pregnant; enceinte, big with, fraught with; in the family way, teeming, parturient, in the straw, brought to bed of; puerperal, puerperous[obs3]. digenetic[obs3], heterogenetic[obs3], oogenetic, xenogenetic[obs3]; ectogenous[obs3], gamic[obs3], haematobious[obs3], sporogenous[Biol], sporophorous[Biol]. architectonic.
Phr. ex nihilo nihil[Lat]; fiat lux[Lat]; materiam superabat opus [Lat][Ovid]; nemo dat quod non habet [Latin]. #162. [Nonproduction.] Destruction.-N. {ant.
146; extirpation &c. (extraction) 301; beginning of the end, commencement de la fin[French], road to ruin; dilapidation &c. (deterioration) 659; sabotage.
Adv. with crushing effect, with a sledge hammer.
Phr. delenda est Carthago[Lat]; dum Roma deliberat Saguntum perit[Lat]; ecrasez l'infame [Fr][Voltaire]. #163.
Reproduction.-N. reproduction, renovation; restoration &c. 660; renewal; new edition, reprint, revival, regeneration, palingenesis[obs3], revivification; apotheosis; resuscitation, reanimation, resurrection, reappearance; regrowth; Phoenix. generation &c. (production) 161; multiplication.
660; revive, renovate, renew, regenerate, revivify, resuscitate, reanimate; remake, refashion, stir the embers, put into the crucible; multiply, repeat; resurge[obs3]. crop up, spring up like mushrooms.
Adj. reproduced &c. v.; renascent, reappearing; reproductive; suigenetic[obs3]. #164.
Producer.-N. producer, originator, inventor, author, founder, generator, mover, architect, creator, prime mover; maker &c. (agent) 690; prime mover. #165.
Destroyer.-N. destroyer &c. (destroy &c.
162); cankerworm &c. (bane) 663; assassin &c. (killer) 361; executioner &c. (punish) 975; biblioclast[obs3], eidoloclast[obs3], iconoclast, idoloclast[obs3]; nihilist. #166.
Paternity.-N. paternity; parentage; consanguinity &c.
Adj. paternal, parental; maternal; family, ancestral, linear, patriarchal.
Phr. avi numerantur avorum[Lat]; "happy he with such a mother" [Tennyson]; hombre bueno no le busquen abolengo[Sp][obs3]; philosophia stemma non inspicit [Lat][Seneca]. #167.
Phr. "the child is father of the man" [Wordsworth]; "the fruit doesn't fall far from the tree", "like father, like son". #168.
Productiveness-N. productiveness &c. adj.; fecundity, fertility, luxuriance, uberty|. pregnancy, pullulation, fructification, multiplication, propagation, procreation; superfetation. milch cow, rabbit, hydra, warren, seed plot, land flowing with milk and honey; second crop, aftermath; aftercrop, aftergrowth[obs3]; arrish[obs3], eddish[obs3], rowen[obs3]; protoplasm; fertilization.
V. make -productive &c. adj.; fructify; procreate, generate, fertilize, spermative[obs3], impregnate; fecundate, fecundify[obs3]; teem, multiply; produce &c.
Adj. productive, prolific; teeming, teemful[obs3]; fertile, fruitful, frugiferous[obs3], fruit-bearing; fecund, luxuriant; pregnant, uberous[obs3]. procreant[obs3], procreative; generative, life-giving, spermatic; multiparous; omnific[obs3], propagable. parturient &c. (producing) 161; profitable &c. (useful) 644. #169.
Unproductiveness.-N. unproductiveness &c. adj.; infertility, sterility, infecundity[obs3]; masturbation; impotence &c.
158; unprofitableness &c. (inutility) 645. waste, desert, Sahara, wild, wilderness, howling wilderness.
V. be - unproductive &c. adj.; hang fire, flash in the pan, come to nothing. [make unproductive] sterilize, addle; disable, inactivate.
Adj. unproductive, acarpous[obs3], inoperative, barren, addled, infertile, unfertile, unprolific[obs3], arid, sterile, unfruitful, infecund[obs3]; sine prole; fallow; teemless[obs3], issueless[obs3], fruitless; unprofitable &c. (useless) 645; null and void, of no effect. #170.
Agency.-N. agency, operation, force, working, strain, # function, office, maintenance, exercise, work, swing, play; interworking[obs3], interaction; procurement. causation &c.
175; action &c. (voluntary) 680; modus operandi &c.
I myself must mix with action lest I wither by despair" [Tennyson]. #171.
Physical Energy.-N. energy, physical energy, force, power &c. # 157; keenness &c. adj.; intensity, vigor, strength, elasticity; go; high pressure; fire; rush. acrimony, acritude[obs3]; causiticity[obs3], virulence; poignancy; harshness &c. adj.; severity, edge, point; pungency &c.
392. cantharides; seasoning &c. (condiment) 393. activity, agitation, effervescence; ferment, fermentation; ebullition, splutter, perturbation, stir, bustle; voluntary energy &c.
Physical Inertness.-N. inertness, dullness &c. adj.; inertia, # vis inertiae[Latin], inertion[obs3], inactivity, torpor, languor; quiescence &c.
265; latency, inaction; passivity. mental inertness; sloth &c. (inactivity) 683; inexcitability &c. 826[obs3]; irresolution &c.
141. rare gas, paraffin, noble metal, unreactivity. V. be -inert &c. adj.; hang fire, smolder. Adj. inert, inactive, passive; torpid &c.
683; sluggish, dull, heavy, flat, slack, tame, slow, blunt; unreactive; lifeless, dead, uninfluential[obs3]. latent, dormant, smoldering, unexerted[obs3]. Adv. inactively &c. adj.; in suspense, in abeyance. #173.
Violence.-N. violence, inclemency, vehemence, might, impetuosity; boisterousness &c. adj.; effervescence, ebullition; turbulence, bluster; uproar, callithump [obs3][U.
S.], riot, row, rumpus, le diable a quatre[Fr], devil to pay, all the fat in the fire. severity &c.
740; gentle, mild, mellow; cool, sober, temperate, reasonable, measured; tempered &c. v.; calm, unruffled, quiet, tranquil, still; slow, smooth, untroubled; tame; peaceful, peaceable; pacific, halcyon. unexciting, unirritating[obs3]; soft, bland, oily, demulcent, lenitive, anodyne; hypnotic &c.
683; sedative; antiorgastic[obs3], anaphrodisiac[obs3]. mild as mother's milk; milk and water.
Adv. moderately &c. adj.; gingerly; piano; under easy sail, at half speed; within bounds, within compass; in reason.
Phr. est modue in rebus[obs3]; pour oil on troubled waters. 4.
642; weight, pressure, preponderance, prevalence, sway; predominance, predominancy[obs3]; ascendency[obs3]; dominance, reign; control, domination, pull*; authority &c.737; capability &c. (power) 157; effect &c.
154; interest. synergy (cooperation) 709. footing; purchase &c. (support) 215; play, leverage, vantage ground. tower of strength, host in himself; protection, patronage, auspices.
Adj. influential, effective; important &c.
642; weighty; prevailing &c. v.; prevalent, rife, rampant, dominant, regnant, predominant, in the ascendant, hegemonical[obs3].
Phr. tel maure tel valet[Fr]. #175a.
Absence of Influence.-N. impotence &c.
158; powerlessness; # inertness &c.
10. V. have no -influence &c.
175. Adj. uninfluential[obs3], ineffective; inconsequential, nugatory; unconducing, unconducive, unconducting to[obs3]; powerless &c.
Tendency.-N. tendency; aptness, aptitude; proneness, proclivity, bent, turn, tone, bias, set, leaning to, predisposition, inclination, propensity, susceptibility; conatus[Lat], nisus[Lat]; liability &c.
177; quality, nature, temperament; idiocrasy[obs3], idiosyncrasy; cast, vein, grain; humor, mood; drift &c. (direction) 278; conduciveness, conducement[obs3]; applicability &c. (utility) 644; subservience &c. (instrumentality) 631.
V. tend, contribute, conduce, lead, dispose, incline, verge, bend to, trend, affect, carry, redound to, bid fair to, gravitate towards; promote &c. (aid) 707.
Adj. tending &c. v.; conducive, working towards, in a fair way to, calculated to; liable &c.
177; subservient &c. (instrumental) 631; useful &c.
644; subsidiary &c. (helping) 707.
Liability.-N. liability, liableness[obs3]; possibility, contingency; susceptivity[obs3], susceptibility, exposure.
V. be -liable &c. adj.; incur, lay oneself open to; run the chance, stand a chance; lie under, expose oneself to, open a door to.
Adj. liable, subject; in danger &c.
665; open to, exposed to, obnoxious to; answerable; unexempt from[obs3]; apt to; dependent on; incident to. contingent, incidental, possible, on the cards, within range of, at the mercy of. 5.
Concurrence.-N. concurrence, cooperation, coagency[obs3]; # union; agreement &c.
23; consilience[obs3]; consent, coincidence &c. (assent) 488; alliance; concert, additivity, synergy &c.
Counteraction.-N. counteraction, opposition; contrariety &c. 14; antagonism, polarity; clashing &c. v.; collision, interference, inhibition, resistance, renitency, friction; reaction; retroaction &c. (recoil) 277; counterblast[obs3]; neutralization &c. (compensation) 30; vis inertiae[Lat]; check &c. (hindrance) 706. voluntary opposition &c. 708, voluntary resistance &c.
719; repression &c. (restraint) 751. opposites, action and reaction, yang and yin, yang-yin (contrariety) 14.
V. counteract; run counter, clash, cross; interfere with, conflict with; contravene; jostle; go against, run against, beat against, militate against; stultify; antagonize, block, oppose &c.
708; traverse; withstand &c. (resist) 719; hinder &c.
706; repress &c. (restrain) 751; react &c. (recoil) 277. undo, neutralize; counterpoise &c. (compensate) 30; overpoise[obs3].
Adj. counteracting &c. v.; antagonistic, conflicting, retroactive, renitent, reactionary; contrary &c.
30; in spite of &c.
Phr. "for every action there is a reaction, equal in force and opposite in direction" [Newton]. CLASS II WORDS RELATING TO SPACE SECTION I.
ABSTRACT SPACE #180. [Indefinite space.] Space.-N. space, extension, extent, superficial extent, expanse, stretch, hyperspace; room, scope, range, field, way, expansion, compass, sweep, swing, spread. dimension, length &c.
105; world; ubiquity &c. (presence) 186; length and breadth of the land. proportions, acreage; acres, acres and perches, roods and perches, hectares, square miles; square inches, square yards, square centimeters, square meters, yards (clothing) &c.; ares, arpents[obs3].
Adj. spacious, roomy, extensive, expansive, capacious, ample; widespread, vast, world-wide, uncircumscribed; boundless &c. (infinite) 105; shoreless[obs3], trackless, pathless; extended.
189; locality &c. (situation) 183. ins and outs; every hole and corner.
Adv. somewhere, in some place, wherever it may be, here and there, in various places, passim. 2.
Location.-N. location, localization; lodgment; deposition, reposition; stowage, package; collocation; packing, lading; establishment, settlement, installation; fixation; insertion &c.
300. habitat, environment, surroundings (situation) 183; circumjacence &c. 227[obs3]. anchorage, mooring, encampment. plantation, colony, settlement, cantonment; colonization, domestication, situation; habitation &c. (abode) 189; cohabitation; "a local habitation and a name" [Midsummer Night's Dream]; endenization[obs3], naturalization.
Adj. placed &c. v.; situate, posited, ensconced, imbedded, embosomed[obs3], rooted; domesticated; vested in, unremoved[obs3]. moored &c. v.; at anchor. #185.
Displacement.-N. displacement, elocation[obs3], transposition. # ejectment &c.
297[obs3]; exile &c. (banishment) 893; removal &c. (transference) 270. misplacement, dislocation &c.
61; fish out of water. V. displace, misplace, displant[obs3], dislodge, disestablish; exile &c. (seclude) 893; ablegate[obs3], set aside, remove; take away, cart away; take off, draft off; lade &c.
184. unload, empty &c. (eject) 297; transfer &c.
270; dispel. vacate; depart &c.
293. Adj. displaced &c. v.; unplaced, unhoused[obs3], unharbored[obs3], unestablished[obs3], unsettled; houseless[obs3], homeless; out of place, out of a situation; in the wrong place. misplaced, out of its element. 3.
293. Adj. absent, not present, away, nonresident, gone, from home; missing; lost; wanting; omitted; nowhere to be found; inexistence &c.
Jonson]. [1] Bishop Wilkins. #188.
V. inhabit &c. (be present) 186; endenizen &c. (locate oneself) 184[obs3].
V. take up one's abode &c. (locate oneself) 184; inhabit &c. (be present) 186.
Adj. urban, metropolitan; suburban; provincial, rural, rustic; domestic; cosmopolitan; palatial.
Adj. capsular; saccular, sacculated; recipient; ventricular, cystic, vascular, vesicular, cellular, camerated, locular, multilocular, polygastric; marsupial; siliquose, siliquous. SECTION II.
50; full size, life size.
V. be large &c. adj.; become large &c. (expand) 194.
Adj. large, big; great &c. (in quantity) 31; considerable, bulky, voluminous, ample, massive, massy; capacious, comprehensive; spacious &c.
Littleness.-N. littleness &c. adj.; smallness &c. (of quantity) 32; exiguity, inextension[obs3]; parvitude[obs3], parvity[obs3]; duodecimo[obs3]; Elzevir edition, epitome, microcosm; rudiment; vanishing point; thinness &c.
330; point of a pin, mathematical point; minutiae &c. (unimportance) 643. micrometer; vernier; scale. microphotography, photomicrography, micrography[obs3]; photomicrograph, microphotograph; microscopy; microscope (optical instruments) 445..
V. be little &c. adj.; lie in a nutshell; become small &c. (decrease) 36, (contract) 195.
201. impalpable, intangible, evanescent, imperceptible, invisible, inappreciable, insignificant, inconsiderable, trivial; infinitesimal, homoeopathic[obs3]; atomic, subatomic, corpuscular, molecular; rudimentary, rudimental; embryonic, vestigial. weazen|!, scant, scraggy, scrubby; thin &c. (narrow) 203; granular &c. (powdery) 330; shrunk &c.
Adv. in a small compass, in a nutshell; on a small scale; minutely, microscopically. #194.
35; budding, gemmation[obs3]. overgrowth, overdistension[obs3]; hypertrophy, tympany[obs3]. bulb &c. (convexity) 250; plumper; superiority of size. [expansion of the universe] big bang; Hubble constant.
V. become larger &c. (large &c.
Contraction.-N. contraction, reduction, diminution; decrease &c.
36 of size; defalcation, decrement; lessening, shrinking &c. v.; compaction; tabes[obs3], collapse, emaciation, attenuation, tabefaction[obs3], consumption, marasmus[obs3], atrophy; systole, neck, hourglass. condensation, compression, compactness; compendium &c.
596; squeezing &c. v.; strangulation; corrugation; astringency; astringents, sclerotics; contractility, compressibility; coarctation[obs3]. inferiority in size.
V. become small, become smaller; lessen, decrease &c.
751. [reduce in size by abrasion or paring; see subtraction 38] abrade, pare, reduce, attenuate, rub down, scrape, file, file down, grind, grind down, chip, shave, shear, wear down.
Adj. contracting &c. v.; astringent; shrunk, contracted &c. v.; strangulated, tabid[obs3], wizened, stunted; waning &c. v.; neap, compact. unexpanded &c. (expand &c.
194)[obs3]; contractile; compressible; smaller &c. (small &c.193). #196.
180; remoteness, farness[obs3], far-cry to; longinquity[obs3], elongation; offing, background; remote region; removedness[obs3]; parallax; reach, span, stride. outpost, outskirt; horizon; aphelion; foreign parts, ultima Thule[Lat], ne plus ultra[Lat], antipodes; long range, giant's stride. dispersion &c.73. [units of distance] length &c.
Adj. distant; far off, far away; remote, telescopic, distal, wide of; stretching to &c. v.; yon, yonder; ulterior; transmarine[obs3], transpontine[obs3], transatlantic, transalpine; tramontane; ultramontane, ultramundane[obs3]; hyperborean, antipodean; inaccessible, out of the way; unapproached[obs3], unapproachable; incontiguous[obs3].
Phr. "distance lends enchantment" [Campbell]; "it's a long long way to Tipperary"; out of sight, out of mind. #197.
Nearness.-N. nearness &c. adj.; proximity, propinquity; vicinity, vicinage; neighborhood, adjacency; contiguity &c.
199. short distance, short step, short cut; earshot, close quarters, stone's throw; bow shot, gun shot, pistol shot; hair's breadth, span. purlieus, neighborhood, vicinage, environs, alentours[Fr], suburbs, confines, banlieue[obs3], borderland; whereabouts. bystander; neighbor, borderer[obs3]. approach &c.
V. be near &c. adj.; adjoin, hang about, trench on; border upon, verge upon; stand by, approximate, tread on the heels of, cling to, clasp, hug; huddle; hang upon the skirts of, hover over; burn. touch &c.
199 bring near, draw near &c.
72; place side by side &c. adv.
Adj. near, nigh; close at hand, near at hand; close, neighboring; bordering upon, contiguous, adjacent, adjoining; proximate, proximal; at hand, handy; near the mark, near run; home, intimate.
Interval.-N. interval, interspace[obs3]; separation &c.
44; break, gap, opening; hole &c.
259; abra[obs3]; barranca[obs3], barranco[obs3]; clove [U.S.], gulch [U.S.], notch [U.S.]; yawning gulf; hiatus maxime[Lat], hiatus valde deflendus[Lat]; parenthesis &c. (interjacence) 228[obs3]; void 7c. (absence) 187; incompleteness &c. 53. [interval of time] period &c.
V. gape &c. (open) 260.
Adj. with an interval, far between; breachy[obs3], rimose[obs3], rimulose[obs3].
Adv. at intervals &c. (discontinuously) 70; longo intervallo[It]. #199.
Contiguity.-N. contiguity, contact, proximity, apposition, # abuttal[obs3], juxtaposition; abutment, osculation; meeting, appulse[obs3], rencontre[obs3], rencounter[obs3], syzygy[Astron], coincidence, coexistence; adhesion &c.
Length.-N. length, longitude, span; mileage; distance &c.
Shortness.-N. shortness &c. adj.; brevity; littleness &c.
193; a span. shortening &c. v.; abbreviation, abbreviature[obs3]; abridgment, concision, retrenchment, curtailment, decurtation|; reduction &c. (contraction) 195; epitome &c. (compendium) 596. elision, ellipsis; conciseness &c. (in style) 572. abridger, epitomist[obs3], epitomizer[obs3].
V. be short &c. adj.; render short &c. adj.; shorten, curtail, abridge, abbreviate, take in, reduce; compress &c. (contract) 195; epitomize &c.
596. retrench, cut short, obtruncate[obs3]; scrimp, cut, chop up, hack, hew; cut down, pare down; clip, dock, lop, prune, shear, shave, mow, reap, crop; snub; truncate, pollard, stunt, nip, check the growth of; foreshorten[in drawing].
Adj. short, brief, curt; compendious, compact; stubby, scrimp; shorn, stubbed; stumpy, thickset, pug; chunky [U.S.], decurtate[obs3]; retrousse[obs3]; stocky; squab, squabby[obs3]; squat, dumpy; little &c.
193; curtailed of its fair proportions; short by; oblate; concise &c.
Adv. shortly &c. adj.; in short &c. (concisely) 572. #202.
198. narrowing, coarctation[obs3], angustation[obs3], tapering; contraction &c.
V. be narrow &c. adj.; narrow, taper, contract &c. 195; render narrow &c. adj; waste away.
Adj. narrow, close; slender, thin, fine; thread-like &c. (filament) 205; finespun[obs3], gossamer; paper-thin; taper, slim, slight-made; scant, scanty; spare, delicate, incapacious[obs3]; contracted &c.
V. slice, shave, pare, peel; delaminate; plate, coat, veneer; cover &c.
Adj. lamellar, lamellated[obs3], lamelliform[obs3], layered; laminated, laminiferous[obs3]; micaceous[obs3]; schistose, schistous[obs3]; scaly, filmy, membranous, pellicular, flaky, squamous[Anat]; foliated, foliaceous[obs3]; stratified, stratiform; tabular, discoid; spathic[obs3], spathose[obs3]. trilamellar[obs3]. graphitic[obs3]. #205.
Adj. filamentous, filamentiferous[obs3], filaceous[obs3], filiform[obs3]; fibrous, fibrillous[obs3]; thread-like, wiry, stringy, ropy; capillary, capilliform[obs3]; funicular, wire-drawn; anguilliform[obs3]; flagelliform[obs3]; hairy &c. (rough) 256; taeniate[obs3], taeniform[obs3], taenioid[obs3]; venose[obs3], venous. #206.
Height.-N. height, altitude, elevation; eminence, pitch; loftiness &c. adj.; sublimity. tallness &c. adj.; stature, procerity[obs3]; prominence &c.
V. be high &c. adj.; tower, soar, command; hover, hover over, fly over; orbit, be in orbit; cap, culminate; overhang, hang over, impend, beetle, bestride, ride, mount; perch, surmount; cover &c.
223; overtop &c. (be superior) 33; stand on tiptoe. become high &c. adj.; grow higher, grow taller; upgrow[obs3]; rise &c. (ascend) 305; send into orbit. render high &c. adj.; heighten &c. (elevate) 307.
Adj. high, elevated, eminent, exalted, lofty, tall; gigantic &c. (big) 192; Patagonian; towering, beetling, soaring, hanging [gardens]; elevated &c.
307; upper; highest &c. (topmost) 210; high reaching, insessorial[obs3], perching. upland, moorland; hilly, knobby [U.S.]; mountainous, alpine, subalpine, heaven kissing; cloudtopt[obs3], cloudcapt[obs3], cloudtouching[obs3]; aerial. overhanging &c. v.; incumbent, overlying, superincumbent[obs3], supernatant, superimposed; prominent &c. c.
250. tall as a maypole, tall as a poplar, tall as a steeple, lanky &c. (thin) 203.
Adv. on high, high up, aloft, up, above, aloof, overhead; airwind[obs3]; upstairs, abovestairs[obs3]; in the clouds; on tiptoe, on stilts, on the shoulders of; over head and ears; breast high. over, upwards; from top to bottom &c. (completely) 52.
Phr. e meglio cader dalle finistre che dal tetto[It]. #207.
Lowness.-N. lowness &c. adj.; debasement, depression, prostration &c. (horizontal) 213; depression &c. (concave) 252. molehill; lowlands; basement floor, ground floor; rez de chaussee[Fr]; cellar; hold, bilge; feet, heels. low water; low tide, ebb tide, neap tide, spring tide.
V. be low &c. adj.; lie low, lie flat; underlie; crouch, slouch, wallow, grovel; lower &c. (depress) 308.
Depth.-N. depth; deepness &c. adj.; profundity, depression # &c. (concavity) 252. hollow, pit, shaft, well, crater; gulf &c.
Shallowness.-N. shallowness &c. adj.; shoals; mere scratch. # Adj. shallow, slight, superficial; skin deep, ankle deep, knee deep; just enough to wet one's feet; shoal, shoaly[obs3]. #210.
206); top; top most, upper most; tiptop; culminating &c. v.; meridian, meridional[obs3]; capital, head, polar, supreme, supernal, topgallant. Adv. atop, at the top of the tree. Phr. en flute; fleur deau[Fr]. #211.
Adj. bottom, undermost, nethermost; fundamental; founded on, based on, grounded on, built on. #212.
Verticality.-N. verticality; erectness &c. adj.; # perpendicularity &c.
Horizontality.-N. horizontality[obs3]; flatness; level, # plane; stratum &c.
Pendency.-N. pendency[obs3], dependency; suspension, hanging # &c. v.; pedicel, pedicle, peduncle; tail, train, flap, skirt, pigtail, pony tail, pendulum; hangnail peg, knob, button, hook, nail, stud, ring, staple, tenterhook; fastening &c.
Atlas, Persides, Atlantes[obs3], Caryatides, Hercules.
43. give support, furnish support, afford support, supply support, lend support, give foundations, furnish foundations, afford foundations, supply foundations, lend foundations; bottom, found, base, ground, imbed, embed. maintain, keep on foot; aid &c.
Adj. supporting, supported &c. v.; fundamental; dorsigerous[obs3].
Adv. astride on, straddle. #216.
216a} parallelism; coextension[obs3]; # equidistance[obs3]; similarity &c.
17. Adj. parallel; coextensive; equidistant. Adv. alongside &c. (laterally) 236. #216a.
216} perpendicularity, # orthogonality; verticality, &c.
212. V. be perpendicular, be orthogonal; intersect at right angles, be rectangular, be at right angles to, intersect at 90 degrees; have no correlation. Adj. orthogonal, perpendicular; rectangular; uncorrelated. #217.
Obliquity.-N. obliquity, inclination, slope, slant, crookedness &c. adj.; slopeness[obs3]; leaning &c. v.; bevel, tilt; bias, list, twist, swag, cant, lurch; distortion &c.
243; bend &c. (curve) 245; tower of Pisa. acclivity, rise, ascent, gradient, khudd[obs3], rising ground, hill, bank, declivity, downhill, dip, fall, devexity|; gentle slope, rapid slope, easy ascent, easy descent; shelving beach; talus; monagne Russe[Fr]; facilis descensus averni[Lat].
V. intersect; lack parallelism. #218.
Inversion.-N. inversion, eversion, subversion, reversion, retroversion, introversion; contraposition &c.
14; reversal; turn of the tide. overturn; somersault, somerset; summerset[obs3]; culbute[obs3]; revulsion; pirouette. transposition, transposal[obs3], anastrophy[obs3], metastasis, hyperbaton[obs3], anastrophe[obs3], hysteron proteron[Grk][Grk], hypallage[obs3], synchysis[obs3], tmesis[obs3], parenthesis; metathesis; palindrome. pronation and supination[Anat][obs3].
Adj. inverted &c. v.; wrong side out, wrong side up; inside out, upside down; bottom upwards, keel upwards; supine, on one's head, topsy- turvy, sens dessus dessous[Fr]. inverse; reverse &c. (contrary) 14; opposite &c.
Adv. inversely &c. adj.; hirdy-girdy[obs3]; heels over head, head over heels. #219.
Crossing.-N. crossing &c. v.; intersection, interdigitation; # decussation[obs3], transversion[obs3]; convolution &c.
Exteriority.-N. exteriority[obs3]; outside, exterior; # surface, superficies; skin &c. (covering) 223; superstratum[obs3]; disk, disc; face, facet; extrados[obs3]. excentricity[obs3]; eccentricity; circumjacence &c.
227[obs3]. V. be exterior &c. adj.; lie around &c.
227. place exteriorly, place outwardly, place outside; put out, turn out. Adj. exterior, external; outer most; outward, outlying, outside, outdoor; round about &c.
227; extramural; extralimitary[obs3], extramundane. superficial, skin-deep; frontal, discoid. extraregarding[obs3]; excentric[obs3], eccentric; outstanding; extrinsic &c.
6; ecdemic[Med], exomorphic[obs3]. Adv. externally &c. adj.; out, with out, over, outwards, ab extra, out of doors; extra muros[Lat]. in the open air; sub Jove, sub dio[Lat]; a la belle etoile[Fr], al fresco. #221.
Interiority.-N. interiority; inside, interior; interspace[obs3], subsoil, substratum; intrados. contents &c.
190; substance, pith, marrow; backbone &c. (center) 222; heart, bosom, breast; abdomen; vitals, viscera, entrails, bowels, belly, intestines, guts, chitterings[obs3], womb, lap; penetralia[Lat], recesses, innermost recesses; cave &c. (concavity) 252.
V. be inside &c. adj.; within &c. adv. place within, keep within; inclose &c. (circumscribe) 229; intern; imbed &c. (insert) 300.
Adj. interior, internal; inner, inside, inward, intraregarding[obs3]; inmost, innermost; deep seated, gut; intestine, intestinal; inland; subcutaneous; abdominal, coeliac, endomorphic[Physiol]; interstitial &c. (interjacent) 228[obs3]; inwrought &c. (intrinsic) 5; inclosed &c. v. home, domestic, indoor, intramural, vernacular; endemic.
Adv. internally &c. adj.; inwards, within, in, inly[obs3]; here in, there in, where in; ab intra, withinside[obs3]; in doors, within doors; at home, in the bosom of one's family. #222.
Centrality.-N. centrality, centricalness[obs3], center; # middle &c.
290. render central, centralize, concentrate; bring to a focus. Adj. central, centrical[obs3]; middle &c.
68; azygous, axial, focal, umbilical, concentric; middlemost; rachidian[obs3]; spinal, vertebral. Adv. middle; midst; centrally &c. adj. #223.
V. cover; superpose, superimpose; overlay, overspread; wrap &c.
528. [of aluminum] anodize. [of steel] galvanize.
Adj. covering &c. v.; superimposed, overlaid, plated &c. v.; cutaneous, dermal, cortical, cuticular, tegumentary[obs3], skinny, scaly, squamous[Anat]; covered &c. v.; imbricated, loricated[obs3], armor plated, ironclad; under cover; cowled, cucullate[obs3], dermatoid[obs3], encuirassed[obs3], hooded, squamiferous[obs3], tectiform[obs3]; vaginate[obs3]. #224.
Lining.-N. lining, inner coating; coating &c. (covering) 223; # stalactite, stalagmite. filling, stuffing, wadding, padding. wainscot, parietes[Lat], wall. V. line, stuff, incrust, wad, pad, fill. Adj. lined &c. v.. #225.
Clothing.-N. clothing, investment; covering &c.
Adj. invested &c. v.; habited; dighted[obs3]; barbed, barded; clad, costume, shod, chausse[Fr]; en grande tenue &c. (show) 882[Fr]. sartorial.
Phr. "the soul of this man is his clothes" [All's Well]. #226.
Divestment.-N. divestment; taking off &c. v.. nudity; bareness &c. adj.; undress; dishabille &c.
225; the altogether; nudation[obs3], denudation; decortication, depilation, excoriation, desquamation; molting; exfoliation; trichosis[Med]. V. divest; uncover &c. (cover &c.
223); denude, bare, strip; disfurnish[obs3]; undress, disrobe &c. (dress, enrobe &c.
225); uncoif[obs3]; dismantle; put off, take off, cast off; doff; peel, pare, decorticate, excoriate, skin, scalp, flay; expose, lay open; exfoliate, molt, mew; cast the skin.
Circumjacence.-N. circumjacence[obs3], circumambience[obs3]; environment, encompassment; atmosphere, medium, surroundings. outpost; border &c. (edge) 231; girdle &c. (circumference) 230; outskirts, boulebards, suburbs, purlieus, precincts, faubourgs[obs3], environs, entourage, banlieue[obs3]; neighborhood, vicinage, vicinity.
V. lie around &c. adv.; surround, beset, compass, encompass, environ, inclose, enclose, encircle, embrace, circumvent, lap, gird; belt; begird, engird[obs3]; skirt, twine round; hem in &c. (circumscribe) 229.
Adj. circumjacent, circumambient[obs3], circumfluent[obs3]; ambient; surrounding &c. v.; circumferential, suburban.
Adv. around, about; without; on every side; on all sides; right and left, all round, round about. #228.
Interposition.-N. interposition, interjacence[obs3], intercurrence[obs3], intervenience[obs3], interlocation[obs3], interdigitation, interjection, interpolation, interlineation, interspersion, intercalation. [interposition at a fine-grained level] interpenetration; permeation; infiltration. [interposition by one person in another's affairs, at the intervenor's initiative] intervention, interference; intrusion, obtrusion; insinuation. insertion &c.
300; dovetailing; embolism. intermediary, intermedium[obs3]; go between, bodkin|!, intruder, interloper; parenthesis, episode, flyleaf. partition, septum, diaphragm; midriff; dissepiment[obs3]; party wall, panel, room divider. halfway house.
Adj. interjacent[obs3], intercurrent[obs3], intervenient[obs3], intervening &c. v., intermediate, intermediary, intercalary, interstitial; embolismal[obs3]. parenthetical, episodic; mediterranean; intrusive; embosomed[obs3]; merged.
Adv. between, betwixt; twixt; among, amongst; amid, amidst; mid, midst; in the thick of; betwixt and between; sandwich-wise; parenthetically, obiter dictum. #229.
Circumscription.-N. circumscription, limitation, inclosure; confinement &c. (restraint) 751; circumvallation[obs3]; encincture; envelope &c.
V. circumscribe, limit, bound, confine, inclose; surround &c.
227; compass about; imprison &c. (restrain) 751; hedge in, wall in, rail in; fence round, fence in, hedge round; picket; corral. enfold, bury, encase, incase[obs3], pack up, enshrine, inclasp[obs3]; wrap up &c. (invest) 225; embay[obs3], embosom[obs3]. containment (inclusion) 76.
Adj. circumscribed &c. v.; begirt[obs3], lapt[obs3]; buried in, immersed in; embosomed[obs3], in the bosom of, imbedded, encysted, mewed up; imprisoned &c.
751; landlocked, in a ring fence. #230.
Outline.-N. outline, circumference; perimeter, periphery, ambit, circuit, lines tournure[obs3], contour, profile, silhouette; bounds; coast line. zone, belt, girth, band, baldric, zodiac, girdle, tyre[Brit], cingle[obs3], clasp, girt; cordon &c. (inclosure) 232; circlet, &c.
Inclosure.-N. inclosure, envelope; case &c. (receptacle) 191; # wrapper; girdle &c.
752. dike, dyke, ditch, fosse[obs3], moat. V. inclose, circumscribe &c.
V. be in front, stand in front &c. adj.; front, face, confront; bend forwards; come to the front, come to the fore.
Adj. fore, anterior, front, frontal.
Adv. before; in front, in the van, in advance; ahead, right ahead; forehead, foremost; in the foreground, in the lee of; before one's face, before one's eyes; face to face, vis-a-vis; front a front.
Phr. formosa muta commendatio est [Lat][Syrus]; frons est animi janua [Lat][Cicero]; "Human face divine" [Milton]; imago animi vultus est indices oculi [Lat][Cicero]; "sea of upturned faces" [Scott]. #235.
Contraposition.-N. contraposition[obs3], opposition; # polarity; inversion &c.
Dextrality.-N. dextrality[obs3]; right, right hand; dexter, # offside, starboard. Adj. dextral, right-handed; dexter, dextrorsal[obs3], dextrorse[obs3]; ambidextral[obs3], ambidextrous; dextro-. Adv. dextrad[obs3], dextrally[obs3]. #239.
Sinistrality.-N. sinistrality[obs3]; left, left hand, a # gauche; sinister, nearside[obs3], larboard, port. Adj. left-handed; sinister; sinistral, sinistrorsal[obs3], sinistrorse[obs3], sinistrous[obs3]; Pref. laevo-. Adv. sinistrally, sinistrously[obs3]. SECTION III.
Form.-N. form, figure, shape; conformation, configuration; # make, formation, frame, construction, cut, set, build, trim, cut of one's jib; stamp, type, cast, mold; fashion; contour &c. (outline) 230; structure &c.
149. #241. [Absence of form.] Amorphism.-N. amorphism[obs3], # informity[obs3]; unlicked cub[obs3]; rudis indigestaque moles[Lat]; disorder &c.
243. disfigurement, defacement; mutilation; deforming. chaos, randomness (disorder) 59. [taking form from surroundings] fluid &c.
333. V. deface[Destroy form], disfigure, deform, mutilate, truncate; derange &c.
61; blemish, mar. Adj. shapeless, amorphous, formless; unformed, unhewn[obs3], unfashioned[obs3], unshaped, unshapen; rough, rude, Gothic, barbarous, rugged. #242. [Regularity of form.] Symmetry.-N. symmetry, shapeliness, # finish; beauty &c.
845; proportion, eurythmy[obs3], uniformity, parallelism; bilateral symmetry, trilateral symmetry, multilateral symmetry; centrality &c.
222. arborescence[obs3], branching, ramification; arbor vitae. Adj. symmetrical, shapely, well set, finished; beautiful &c.
845; classic, chaste, severe. regular, uniform, balanced; equal &c.
846; talipes[obs3]; teratology. asymmetry; irregularity. V. distort, contort, twist, warp, wrest, writhe, make faces, deform, misshape.
194; scalene; simous[obs3]; taliped[obs3], talipedic[obs3].
Adv. all manner of ways.
Phr. crooked as a Virginia fence [U.S.]. 2.
Angularity.-N. angularity, angularness[obs3]; aduncity[obs3]; angle, cusp, bend; fold &c.
257; fork, bifurcation. elbow, knee, knuckle, ankle, groin, crotch, crutch, crane, fluke, scythe, sickle, zigzag, kimbo[obs3], akimbo. corner, nook, recess, niche, oriel[Arch], coign[obs3]. right angle &c. (perpendicular) 216a, 212; obliquity &c.
Platonic bodies; cube, rhomboid; tetrahedron, pentahedron, hexahedron, octahedron, dodecahedron, icosahedron, eicosahedron; prism, pyramid; parallelopiped; curb roof, gambrel roof, mansard roof.
V. bend, fork, bifurcate, crinkle.
Adj. angular, bent, crooked, aduncous[obs3], uncinated[obs3], aquiline, jagged, serrated; falciform[obs3], falcated[obs3]; furcated[obs3], forked, bifurcate, zigzag; furcular[obs3]; hooked; dovetailed; knock kneed, crinkled, akimbo, kimbo[obs3], geniculated[obs3]; oblique &c.
217. fusiform[Microb], wedge-shaped, cuneiform; cuneate[obs3], multangular[obs3], oxygonal[obs3]; triangular, trigonal[obs3], trilateral; quadrangular, quadrilateral; foursquare; rectangular, square, multilateral; polygonal &c. n.; cubical, rhomboid, rhomboidal, pyramidal. #245.
Curvature.-N. curvature, curvity[obs3], curvation[obs3]; incurvature[obs3], incurvity|; incurvation[obs3]; bend; flexure, flexion, flection[obs3]; conflexure|; crook, hook, bought, bending; deflection, deflexion[obs3]; inflection, inflexion[obs3]; concameration[obs3]; arcuation[obs3], devexity|, turn, deviation, detour, sweep; curl, curling; bough; recurvity[obs3], recurvation[obs3]; sinuosity &c.
V. be curved &c. adj[intrans].; curve, sweep, sway, swag, sag; deviate &c.
279; curl, turn; reenter. [trans] render curved &c. adj.; flex, bend, curve, incurvate[obs3]; inflect; deflect, scatter[Phys]; refract (light) 420; crook; turn, round, arch, arcuate, arch over, concamerate[obs3]; bow, curl, recurve, frizzle. rotundity &c.
247. aduncated[obs3], arclike[obs3], arcuate, arched, beaked; bicorn[obs3], bicornuous[obs3], bicornute[obs3]; clypeate[obs3], clypeiform[obs3]; cymbiform[obs3], embowed[obs3], galeiform[obs3]; hamate[obs3], hamiform[obs3], hamous[obs3]; hooked; linguiform[obs3], lingulate[obs3]; lobiform[obs3], lunate, navicular[obs3], peltate[obs3], remiform[obs3], rhamphoid[obs3]; rostrate[obs3], rostriferous[obs3], rostroid[obs3]; scutate[obs3], scaphoid[obs3], uncate[obs3]; unguiculate[obs3], unguiform[obs3]. #246.
Straightness.-N. straightness, rectilinearity[obs3], directness; inflexibility &c. (stiffness) 323; straight line, right line, direct line; short cut.
219, unwrap. Adj. straight; rectilinear, rectilineal[obs3]; direct, even, right, true, in a line; unbent, virgate &c. v[obs3].; undeviating, unturned, undistorted, unswerving; straight as an arrow &c. (direct) 278; inflexible &c.
323. laser-straight; ramrod-straight. #247. [Simple circularity.] Circularity.-N. circularity, roundness; rotundity &c.
V. make round &c. adj.; round. go round; encircle &c.
227; describe a circle &c.
311. Adj. round, rounded, circular, annular, orbicular; oval, ovate; elliptic, elliptical; egg-shaped; pear-shaped &c.
245; cycloidal &c. n[obs3].; spherical &c.
256. coil, roll, curl; buckle, spiral, helix, corkscrew, worm, volute, rundle; tendril; scollop[obs3], scallop, escalop[obs3]; kink; ammonite, snakestone[obs3]. serpent, eel, maze, labyrinth. knot.
V. be convoluted &c. adj.; wind, twine, turn and twist, twirl; wave, undulate, meander; inosculate[obs3]; entwine, intwine[obs3]; twist, coil, roll; wrinkle, curl, crisp, twill; frizzle; crimp, crape, indent, scollop[obs3], scallop, wring, intort[obs3]; contort; wreathe &c. (cross) 219.
Adv. in and out, round and round; a can of worms; Gordian knot. #249.
V. render spherical &c. adj.; form into a sphere, sphere, roll into a ball; give rotundity &c. n.; round.
Convexity.-N. convexity, prominence, projection, swelling, gibbosity[obs3], bilge, bulge, protuberance, protrusion; camber, cahot [obs3][N.
Flatness.-N. flatness &c. adj.; smoothness &c.
255. # plane; level &c.
213; plate, platter, table, tablet, slab. V. render flat, flatten; level &c.
213. Adj. flat, plane, even, flush, scutiform[obs3], discoid; level &c. (horizontal) 213; flat as a pancake, flat as a fluke, flat as a flounder, flat as a board, flat as my hand. #252.
V. be sharp &c. adj.; taper to a point; bristle with. render sharp &c. adj.; sharpen, point, aculeate, whet, barb, spiculate[obs3], set, strop, grind; chip [flint]. cut &c. (sunder) 44.
Bluntness.-N. bluntness &c. adj. # V. be blunt, render blunt &c. adj.; obtund[obs3], dull; take off the point, take off the edge; turn. Adj. blunt, obtuse, dull, bluff; edentate, toothless. #255.
V. smooth, smoothen[obs3]; plane; file; mow, shave; level, roll; macadamize; polish, burnish, calender[obs3], glaze; iron, hot-press, mangle; lubricate &c. (oil) 332.
Adj. smooth; polished &c. v.; leiodermatous[obs3], slick, velutinous[obs3]; even; level &c.
Phr. smooth as silk; slippery as coonshit on a pump handle; slippery as a greased pig. #256.
Roughness.-N. roughness &c. adj.; tooth, grain, texture, ripple; asperity, rugosity[obs3], salebrosity|, corrugation, nodosity[obs3]; arborescence[obs3] &c.
V. be rough &c. adj.; go against the grain. render-rough &c. adj.; roughen, ruffle, crisp, crumple, corrugate, set on edge, stroke the wrong way, rumple.
Adj. rough, uneven, scabrous, scaly ,knotted; rugged, rugose[obs3], rugous[obs3]; knurly[obs3]; asperous[obs3], crisp, salebrous|, gnarled, unpolished, unsmooth[obs3], roughhewn[obs3]; craggy, cragged; crankling[obs3], scraggy; prickly &c. (sharp) 253; arborescent &c.
Phr. cabello luengo y corto el seso[Sp]. #257.
Fold.-N. fold, plicature[obs3], plait, pleat, ply, crease; tuck, gather; flexion, flexure, joint, elbow, double, doubling, duplicature[obs3], gather, wrinkle, rimple[obs3], crinkle, crankle[obs3], crumple, rumple, rivel[obs3], ruck[obs3], ruffle, dog's ear, corrugation, frounce[obs3], flounce, lapel; pucker, crow's feet; plication[obs3].
V. fold, double, plicate[obs3], plait, crease, wrinkle, crinkle, crankle[obs3], curl, cockle up, cocker, rimple[obs3], rumple, flute, frizzle, frounce[obs3], rivel[obs3], twill, corrugate, ruffle, crimple|, crumple, pucker; turn down, double down, down under; tuck, ruck[obs3], hem, gather.
Adj. folded, fluted, pleated &c. v.. #259.
Furrow.-N. furrow, groove, rut, sulcus[Anat], scratch, streak, striae, crack, score, incision, slit; chamfer, fluting; corduroy road, cradle hole. channel, gutter, trench, ditch, dike, dyke; moat, fosse[obs3], trough, kennel; ravine &c. (interval) 198; tajo [obs3][U.S.], thank-ye-ma'am [U.S.].
V. furrow &c. n.; flute, plow; incise, engrave, etch, bite in. Adj. furrowed &c. v.; ribbed, striated, sulcated[Anat], fluted, canaliculated[obs3]; bisulcous[obs3], bisulcate[obs3], bisulcated[obs3]; canaliferous[obs3]; trisulcate[obs3]; corduroy; unisulcate[obs3]; costate[obs3], rimiform[obs3]. #260.
627; thoroughfare; channel; passage, passageway; tube, pipe; water pipe &c.
631, opener, master key, password, combination, passe-partout.
Adj. open; perforated &c. v.; perforate; wide open, ajar, unclosed, unstopped; oscitant[obs3], gaping, yawning; patent. tubular, cannular[obs3], fistulous; pervious, permeable; foraminous[obs3]; vesicular, vasicular[obs3]; porous, follicular, cribriform[obs3], honeycombed, infundibular[obs3], riddled; tubulous[obs3], tubulated[obs3]; piped, tubate[obs3]. opening &c. v.; aperient[obs3].
Closure.-N. closure, occlusion, blockade; shutting up &c. v.; obstruction &c. (hindrance) 706; embolus; contraction &c.
195; infarction; constipation, obstipation[obs3]; blind alley, blind corner; keddah[obs3]; cul-de-sac, caecum; imperforation[obs3], imperviousness &c. adj.; impermeability; stopper &c.
Adj. closed &c. v.; shut, operculated[obs3]; unopened. unpierced[obs3], imporous[obs3], caecal[Med]; closable; imperforate, impervious, impermeable; impenetrable; impassable, unpassable|2; invious|; pathless, wayless[obs3]; untrodden, untrod. unventilated; air tight, water tight; hermetically sealed; tight, snug. #262.
Stopper.-N. stopper, stopple; plug, cork, bung, spike, spill, # stopcock, tap; rammer[obs3]; ram, ramrod; piston; stop-gap; wadding, stuffing, padding, stopping, dossil[obs3], pledget[obs3], tompion[obs3], tourniquet. cover &c.
223; valve, vent peg, spigot, slide valve. janitor, doorkeeper, porter, warder, beadle, cerberus, ostiary[obs3]. SECTION IV.
270. restlessness &c. (changeableness) 149; mobility; movableness, motive power; laws of motion; mobilization.
V. be in motion &c. adj.; move, go, hie, gang, budge, stir, pass, flit; hover about, hover round, hover about; shift, slide, glide; roll, roll on; flow, stream, run, drift, sweep along; wander &c. (deviate) 279; walk &c.
266; change one's place, shift one's place, change one's quarters, shift one's quarters; dodge; keep going, keep moving; put in motion, set in motion; move; impel &c.
Adj. moving &c. v.; in motion; transitional; motory[obs3], motive; shifting, movable, mobile, mercurial, unquiet; restless &c. (changeable) 149; nomadic &c.
Adv. under way; on the move, on the wing, on the tramp, on the march.
Phr. eppur si muove [It][Galileo]; es bildet ein Talent sich in der Stille[Ger], sich ein Charakter in dem Strom der Welt[Ger]. #265.
403; still as a statue, still as a post, still as a mouse, still as death; vegetative, vegetating.
Adv. at a stand &c. adj.; tout court; at the halt.
Int. stop! stay! avast! halt! hold hard! whoa! hold! sabr karo[obs3]!.
272; automobile, train, bus, airplane, plane, autobus, omnibus, subway, motorbike, dirt bike, off-road vehicle, van, minivan, motor scooter, trolley, locomotive; legs, feet, pegs, pins, trotters. traveler &c.
268. depot [U.S.], railway station, station.
Adj. traveling &c. v.; ambulatory, itinerant, peripatetic, roving, rambling, gadding, discursive, vagrant, migratory, monadic; circumforanean[obs3], circumforaneous[obs3]; noctivagrant[obs3], mundivagrant; locomotive. wayfaring, wayworn; travel-stained.
Adv. on foot, on horseback, on Shanks's mare; by the Marrowbone stage, in transitu &c.
Int. come along! #267. [Locomotion by water, or air.] Navigation.-N. navigation; aquatics; boating, yachting; ship &c.
273; oar, paddle, screw, sail, canvas, aileron. natation[obs3], swimming; fin, flipper, fish's tail. aerostation[obs3], aerostatics[obs3], aeronautics; balloonery[obs3]; balloon &c.
273; ballooning, aviation, airmanship; flying, flight, volitation[obs3]; wing, pinion; rocketry, space travel, astronautics, orbital mechanics, orbiting. voyage, sail, cruise, passage, circumnavigation, periplus[obs3]; headway, sternway, leeway; fairway. mariner &c.
269. flight, trip; shuttle, run, airlift.
Adj. sailing &c. v.; volant[obs3], aerostatic[obs3]; seafaring, nautical, maritime, naval; seagoing, coasting; afloat; navigable; aerial, aeronautic; grallatory[obs3].
Adv. under way, under sail, under canvas, under steam; on the wing, in flight, in orbit.
Phr. bon voyage; "spread the thin oar and catch the driving gale" [Pope]. #268.
Phr. on the road #269.
Mariner.-N. sailor, mariner, navigator; seaman, seafarer, seafaring man; dock walloper*; tar, jack tar, salt, able seaman, A.
73; transposition &c. (interchange) 148; traction &c. 285. [Thing transferred] drift.
185; throw &c. 284; drag &c.
285; mail, post. shovel, ladle, decant, draft off, transfuse, infuse, siphon.
Adj. transferred &c. v.; drifted, movable; portable, portative[obs3]; mailable [U.S.]; contagious.
Pegasus, Bucephalus, Rocinante. ass, donkey, jackass, mule, hinny; sumpter horse, sumpter mule; burro, cuddy[obs3], ladino [obs3][U.S.]; reindeer; camel, dromedary, llama, elephant; carrier pigeon. [object used for carrying] pallet, brace, cart, dolley; support &c.
215; fork lift. carriage &c. (vehicle) 272; ship &c.
Adv. afloat, aboard; on board, on ship board; hard a lee, hard a port, hard a starboard, hard a weather. 2.
Velocity.-N. velocity, speed, celerity; swiftness &c. adj.; rapidity, eagle speed; expedition &c. (activity) 682; pernicity|; acceleration; haste &c.
Mercury, Ariel[obs3], Camilla[obs3], Harlequin. [Measurement of velocity] log, log line; speedometer, odometer, tachometer, strobe, radar speed detector, radar trap, air speed gauge, wind sock, wind speed meter; pedometer.
Adj. fast, speedy, swift, rapid, quick, fleet; aliped[obs3]; nimble, agile, expeditious; express; active &c.
682; flying, galloping &c. v.; light footed, nimble footed; winged, eagle winged, mercurial, electric, telegraphic; light-legged, light of heel; swift as an arrow &c. n.; quick as lightning &c. n., quick as a thought.
Phr. vires acquirit eundo[Lat]; "I'll put a girdle about the earth in forty minutes" [M.N.D.]; "swifter than arrow from the Tartar's bow" [M.N.D.]; go like a bat out of hell; tempus fugit[Lat]. #275.
Adj. slow, slack; tardy; dilatory &c. (inactive) 683; gentle, easy; leisurely; deliberate, gradual; insensible, imperceptible; glacial, languid, sluggish, slow paced, tardigrade|!, snail-like; creeping &c. v.; reptatorial[obs3].
Phr. dum Roma deliberat Saguntum perit[Lat]; at a glacial pace. 3.
Motion conjoined with Force #276.
Impulse.-N. impulse, impulsion, impetus; momentum; push, pulsion[obs3], thrust, shove, jog, jolt, brunt, booming, boost [U.S.], throw; explosion &c. (violence) 173; propulsion &c.
Phr. "a hit, a very palpable hit" [Hamlet]. #277.
Recoil.-N. recoil; reaction, retroaction; revulsion; bounce, # rebound, ricochet; repercussion, recalcitration[obs3]; kick, contrecoup[Fr]; springing back &c. v.; elasticity &c.
Motion with reference to Direction #278.
Direction.-N. direction, bearing, course, vector; set, drift, tenor; tendency &c.
Adj. directed &c. v. directed towards; pointing towards &c. v.; bound for; aligned, with alligned with[obs3]; direct, straight; undeviating, unswerving; straightforward; North, Northern, Northerly, &c. n.
Phr. the shortest distance between two points is a straight line. #279.
Deviation.-N. deviation; swerving &c. v.; obliquation|, warp, refraction; flection[obs3], flexion; sweep; deflection, deflexure[obs3]; declination. diversion, digression, depart from, aberration; divergence &c.
291; zigzag; detour &c. (circuit) 629; divagation. [Desultory motion] wandering &c. v.; vagrancy, evagation[obs3]; bypaths and crooked ways; byroad. [Motion sideways, oblique motion] sidling &c. v.; knight's move at chess.
V. alter one's course, deviate, depart from, turn, trend; bend, curve &c.
245; swerve, heel, bear off; gybe[obs3], wear. intervert[obs3]; deflect; divert, divert from its course; put on a new scent, shift, shunt, draw aside, crook, warp. stray, straggle; sidle; diverge &c.
Adj. deviating &c. v.; aberrant, errant; excursive, discursive; devious, desultory, loose; rambling; stray, erratic, vagrant, undirected, circuitous, indirect, zigzag; crab-like.
Adv. astray from, round about, wide of the mark; to the right about; all manner of ways; circuitously &c.
629. obliquely, sideling, like the move of the knight on a chessboard. #280. [Going before.] Precession.-N. precession, leading, heading; precedence &c.
116; the lead, le pas; van &c. (front) 234; precursor &c.
Adj. leading, precedent &c. v.
Adv. in advance, before, ahead, in the van, in the lead; foremost, headmost[obs3]; in front; at the head, out in front; way out in front, far ahead.
Phr. seniores priores[Lat], ahead of his time. #281. [Going after.] Sequence.-N. sequence; coming after &c. (order) 63; (time) 117; following pursuit &c.
622. follower, attendant, satellite, shadow, dangler, train.
Adj. subsequent, next, succeeding; following &c. v..
Adv. behind; in the rear &c.
235, in the train of, in the wake of; after &c. (order) 63, (time) 117. #282. [Motion forward; progressive motion.] Progression.-N. progress, progression, progressiveness; advancing &c. v.; advance, advancement; ongoing; flood, tide, headway; march &c.
Adj. advancing &c. v.; progressive, profluent[obs3]; advanced.
Adv. forward, onward; forth, on, ahead, under way, en route for, on one's way, on the way, on the road, on the high road, on the road to; in progress; in mid progress; in transitu &c.
659; recidivism, recidivity[obs3]. reversal, relapse, turning point &c.(reversion) 145. V. recede, regrade, return, revert, retreat, retire; retrograde, retrocede; back out; back down; balk; crawfish* [U.S.], crawl*; withdraw; rebound &c.
Adj. receding &c. v.; retrograde, retrogressive; regressive, refluent[obs3], reflex, recidivous, resilient; crab-like; balky; reactionary &c.
Adv. back, backwards; reflexively, to the right about; a reculons[Fr], a rebours[Fr].
Phr. revenons a nos moutons[Fr], as you were. #284. [Motion given to an object situated in front.] Propulsion.-N. # propulsion, projection; propelment[obs3]; vis a tergo[Lat: force from behind]; push, shove &c. (impulse) 276; ejaculate; ejection &c.
276; trundle &c. (set in rotation) 312; expel &c.
V. approach, approximate, appropinquate[obs3]; near; get near, go near, draw near; come to close quarters, come near; move towards, set in towards; drift; make up to; gain upon; pursue &c.
622; tread on the heels of; bear up; make the land; hug the shore, hug the land.
Adj. approaching &c. v.; approximative[obs3]; affluent; impending, imminent &c. (destined) 152.
Int. come hither! approach! here! come! come near! forward! #287. [Motion from.] Recession.-N. recession, retirement, # withdrawal; retreat; retrocession &c.
277; flight &c. (avoidance) 623. V. recede, go, move back, move from, retire; withdraw, shrink, back off; come away, move away, back away, go away, get away, drift away; depart &c.
V. diverge, divaricate, radiate; ramify; branch off, glance off, file off; fly off, fly off at a tangent; spread, scatter, disperse &c.
279; part &c. (separate) 44.
729. recursion[Math, Comp]. V. arrive; get to, come to; come; reach, attain; come up with, come up to; overtake, make, fetch; complete &c.
449; abscond &c. (avoid) 623; entrain; inspan[obs3].
Adj. departing &c. v.; valedictory; outward bound.
Adv. whence, hence, thence; with a foot in the stirrup; on the wing, on the move.
Int. begone! &c. (ejection) 297; farewell! adieu! goodbye! good day! au revoir[Fr]! fare you well!
300. inlet; way in; mouth, door, &c. (opening) 260; barway[obs3]; path &c. (way) 627; conduit &c.
Adj. effused &c. v.; outgoing. #296. [Motion into, actively.] Reception.-N. reception; admission, admittance, entree, importation; introduction, intromission; immission[obs3], ingestion, imbibation[obs3], introception[obs3], absorption, ingurgitation[obs3], inhalation; suction, sucking; eating, drinking &c. (food) 298; insertion &c.
284 throw out, throw up, throw off, throw away, throw aside; push &c.
Adj. emitting, emitted, &c. v.
957. [eating specific foods] hippophagy[obs3], ichthyophagy[obs3]. [CAUSED BY: appetite &c.
865]. mouth, jaws, mandible, mazard[obs3], chops. drinking &c. v.; potation, draught, libation; carousal &c. (amusement) 840; drunkenness &c.
189. [person who eats] diner; hippophage; glutton &c.
Meredith]; "now good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both!" [Macbeth]; "who can cloy the hungry edge of appetite?" [Richard II] #299.
363. clyster[Med], enema, glyster[obs3], lavage, lavement[obs3]. V. insert; introduce, intromit; put into, run into; import; inject; interject &c.
310. bury &c. (inter) 363. insert &c itself; plunge in medias res. Adj. inserted &c. v. #301. [Forcible egress.] Extraction.-N. extraction; extracting &c. # v.; removal, elimination, extrication, eradication, evolution. evulsion[obs3], avulsion[obs3]; wrench; expression, squeezing; extirpation, extermination; ejection &c.
297. express, squeeze out, press out. Adj. extracted &c. v. #302. [Motion through.] Passage.-N. passage, transmission; permeation; penetration, interpenetration; transudation, infiltration; endosmose exosmose[obs3]; endosmosis[Chem]; intercurrence[obs3]; ingress &c.
Adj. passing &c. v.; intercurrent[obs3]; endosmosmic[obs3], endosmotic[Chem].
Adv. en passant &c. (transit) 270[Fr]. #303. [Motion beyond] Transcursion-N. transcursion|, transiliency[obs3], transgression; trespass; encroachment, infringement; extravagation|, transcendence; redundancy &c.
Adv. beyond the mark, ahead. #304. [motion short of] Shortcoming-N. shortcoming, failure; falling short &c v.; default, defalcation; leeway; labor in vain, no go. incompleteness &c.
Adj. unreached; deficient; short, short of; minus; out of depth; perfunctory &c. (neglect) 460.
Adv. within the mark, within the compass, within the bounds; behindhand; re infecta[Lat]; to no purpose; for from it.
Phr. the bubble burst. #305. [Motion upwards] Ascent.-N. ascent, ascension; rising &c. # 309; acclivity, hill &c.
307. go aloft, fly aloft; tower, soar, take off; spring up, pop up, jump up, catapult upwards, explode upwards; hover, spire, plane, swim, float, surge; leap &c.
308; fall prostrate, precipitate oneself; let fall &c.
Elevation.-N. elevation; raising &c. v.; erection, lift; # sublevation[obs3], upheaval; sublimation, exaltation; prominence &c. (convexity) 250. lever &c.
Depression.-N. lowering &c. v.; depression; dip &c. (concavity) 252; abasement; detrusion[obs3]; reduction. overthrow, overset[obs3], overturn; upset; prostration, subversion, precipitation. bow; courtesy, curtsy; genuflexion[obs3], genuflection, kowtow, obeisance, salaam.
Adj. depressed &c. v.; at a low ebb; prostrate &c. (horizontal) 213; detrusive[obs3].
Phr. facinus quos inquinat aequat [Lat][Lucan]. #309.
629. turning &c. v.; wrench; evolution; coil, corkscrew.
Adj. turning &c. v.; circuitous; circumforaneous[obs3], circumfluent[obs3].
Adj. rotating &c.v.; rotary, rotary; circumrotatory[obs3], trochilic[obs3], vertiginous, gyratory; vortical, vorticose[obs3].
Adv. head over heels, round and round, like a horse in a mill. #313. [Motion in the reverse circle.] Evolution.-N. evolution, unfolding, development; evolvement; unfoldment; eversion &c. (inversion) 218.
V. evolve; unfold, unroll, unwind, uncoil, untwist, unfurl, untwine, unravel; untangle, disentangle; develop.
Adv.; pass and repass, ebb and flow, come and go; vacillate &c.
605; teeter [U.S.]. brandish, shake, flourish.
Adj. oscillating &c. v.; oscillatory, undulatory, pulsatory[obs3], libratory, rectilinear; vibratory, vibratile[obs3]; pendulous.
312; whirlwind &c. (wind) 349.
Adj. shaking &c. v.; agitated, tremulous; desultory, subsultory|; saltatoric[obs3]; quasative[obs3]; shambling; giddy-paced, saltatory[obs3], convulsive, unquiet, restless, all of a twitter.
Adv. by fits and starts; subsultorily| &c. adj[obs3].; per saltum[Lat]; hop skip and jump; in convulsions, in fits.
Phr. tempete dans un verre d'eau[Fr]. CLASS III WORDS RELATING TO MATTER SECTION I.
MATERIALITY.-N. materiality, materialness; corporeity[obs3], corporality[obs3]; substantiality, substantialness, flesh and blood, plenum; physical condition. matter, body, substance, brute matter, stuff, element, principle, parenchyma[Biol], material, substratum, hyle[obs3], corpus, pabulum; frame. object, article, thing, something; still life; stocks and stones; materials &c.
635. [Science of matter] physics; somatology[obs3], somatics; natural philosophy, experimental philosophy; physicism[obs3]; physical science, philosophie positive[Fr], materialism; materialist; physicist; somatism[obs3], somatist[obs3].
Adj. material, bodily; corporeal, corporal; physical; somatic, somatoscopic[obs3]; sensible, tangible, ponderable, palpable, substantial. objective, impersonal, nonsubjective[obs3], neuter, unspiritual, materialistic. #317.
Density..-N. density, solidity; solidness &c. adj.; impenetrability, impermeability; incompressibility; imporosity[obs3]; cohesion &c.
Adj. dense, solid; solidified &c. v.; caseous; pukka[obs3]; coherent, cohesive &c.
46; compact, close, serried, thickset; substantial, massive, lumpish[obs3]; impenetrable, impermeable, nonporous, imporous[obs3]; incompressible; constipated; concrete &c. (hard) 323; knotted, knotty; gnarled; crystalline, crystallizable; thick, grumous|, stuffy. undissolved, unmelted[obs3], unliquefied[obs3], unthawed[obs3]. indivisible, indiscerptible[obs3], infrangible[obs3], indissolvable[obs3], indissoluble, insoluble, infusible. #322.
Rarity.-N. rarity, tenuity; absence of solidity &c.
321; # subtility[obs3]; subtilty[obs3], subtlety; sponginess, compressibility. rarefaction, expansion, dilatation, inflation, subtilization[obs3]. vaporization, evaporation, diffusion, gassification[obs3]. ether &c. (gas) 334. V. rarefy, expand, dilate, subtilize[obs3]. Adj. rare, subtile, thin, fine, tenuous, compressible, flimsy, slight; light &c.
320; cavernous, spongy &c. (hollow) 252. rarefied &c. v.; unsubstantial; uncompact[obs3], incompressed[obs3]; rarefiable[obs3]. #323.
V. render hard &c. adj.; harden, stiffen, indurate, petrify, temper, ossify, vitrify; accrust[obs3].
Inelasticity.-N. want of elasticity, absence of elasticity # &c.
325; inelasticity &c. (softness) 324, Adj. unyielding, inelastic, inflexible &c. (soft) 324; irresilient[obs3]. #327.
327} brittleness &c. adj.; fragility, friability, frangibility, fissibility[obs3]; house of cards, house of glass.
V. be brittle &c. adj.; live in a glass house. break, crack, snap, split, shiver, splinter, crumble, break short, burst, fly, give way; fall to pieces; crumble to, crumble into dust.
Adj. powdery, pulverulent[obs3], granular, mealy, floury, farinaceous, branny[obs3], furfuraceous[obs3], flocculent, dusty, sandy, sabulous[obs3], psammous[obs3]; arenose[obs3], arenarious[obs3], arenaceous[obs3]; gritty, efflorescent, impalpable; lentiginous[obs3], lepidote[obs3], sabuline[obs3]; sporaceous[obs3], sporous[obs3]. pulverizable; friable, crumbly, shivery; pulverized &c. v.; attrite[obs3]; in pieces. #331.
Friction.-N. friction, attrition; rubbing, abrasion, scraping # &c. v.; confrication|, detrition, contrition|, affriction[obs3], abrasion, arrosion|, limature|, frication[obs3], rub; elbow grease; rosin; massage; roughness &c.
Prevention of friction.] Lubrication.- # N. smoothness &c.
355. lubrication, lubrification[obs3]; anointment; oiling &c. v. synovia[Anat]; glycerine, oil, lubricating oil, grease &c.
356; saliva; lather. teflon. V. lubricate, lubricitate|; oil, grease, lather, soap; wax. Adj. lubricated &c. v.; lubricous. 2.
Fluidity.-N. fluidity, liquidity; liquidness &c. adj[obs3].; # gaseity &c.
335. Adj. liquid, fluid, serous, juicy, succulent, sappy; ichorous[obs3]; fluent &c. (flowing) 348. liquefied &c.
Gaseity.-N. gaseity[obs3]; vaporousness &c. adj.; flatulence, # flatulency; volatility; aeration, aerification. elastic fluid, gas, air, vapor, ether, steam, essence, fume, reek, effluvium, flatus; cloud &c.
353; ammonia, ammoniacal gas[obs3]; volatile alkali; vacuum, partial vacuum. [Science of elastic fluids] pneumatics, pneumatostatics[obs3]; aerostatics[obs3], aerodynamics. gasmeter[obs3], gasometer[obs3]; air bladder, swimming bladder, sound (of a fish). V. vaporize, evaporate, evanesce, gasify, emit vapor &c.
336; diffuse. Adj. gaseous, aeriform[obs3], ethereal, aerial, airy, vaporous, volatile, evaporable[obs3], flatulent. #335.
Liquefaction.-N. liquefaction; liquescence[obs3], liquescency[obs3]; melting &c. (heat) 384; colliquation|, colliquefaction|; thaw; liquation|, deliquation|, deliquescence; lixiviation[obs3], dissolution. solution, apozem[obs3], lixivium[obs3], infusion, flux. solvent, menstruum, alkahest[obs3].
333; liquefy, run; deliquesce; melt &c. (heat) 384; solve; dissolve, resolve; liquate|; hold in solution; condense, precipitate, rain.
Adj. liquefied &c. v., liquescent, liquefiable; deliquescent, soluble, colliquative[obs3]. #336.
Vaporization.-N. vaporization, volatilization; gasification, # evaporation, vaporation[obs3]; distillation, cupellation[Chem], cohobation, sublimination[obs3], exhalation; volatility. vaporizer, still, retort; fumigation, steaming; bay salt, chloride of sodium|!. mister, spray. bubble, effervescence. V. render -gaseous &c.
334; vaporize, volatilize; distill, sublime; evaporate, exhale, smoke, transpire, emit vapor, fume, reek, steam, fumigate; cohobate[obs3]; finestill[obs3]. bubble, sparge, effervesce, boil. Adj. volatilized &c. v.; reeking &c. v.; volatile; evaporable[obs3], vaporizable. bubbly, effervescent, boiling. _2.
Water.-N. water; serum, serosity[obs3]; lymph; rheum; diluent; agua[Sp], aqua, pani[obs3]. dilution, maceration, lotion; washing &c. v.; immersion|, humectation[obs3], infiltration, spargefaction|, affusion[obs3], irrigation, douche, balneation[obs3], bath. deluge &c. (water in motion) 348; high water, flood tide.
V. be watery &c. adj.; reek. add water, water, wet; moisten &c.
339; dilute, dip, immerse; merge; immerge, submerge; plunge, souse, duck, drown; soak, steep, macerate, pickle, wash, sprinkle, lave, bathe, affuse[obs3], splash, swash, douse, drench; dabble, slop, slobber, irrigate, inundate, deluge; syringe, inject, gargle.
Adj. watery, aqueous, aquatic, hydrous, lymphatic; balneal[obs3], diluent; drenching &c. v.; diluted &c. v.; weak; wet &c. (moist) 339.
Phr. the waters are out. #338.
Air.-N. air &c. (gas) 334; common air, atmospheric air; # atmosphere; aerosphere[obs3]. open air; sky, welkin; blue sky; cloud &c.
349. atmospheric, airy; aerial, aeriform[obs3]; meteorological; weatherwise[obs3]. Adv. in the open air, a la belle etoile[Fr], al fresco; sub jove dio[Lat]. #339.
Moisture.-N. moisture; moistness &c. adj.; humidity, # humectation[obs3]; madefaction|, dew; serein[obs3]; marsh &c.
345; hygrometry, hygrometer. V. moisten, wet; humect[obs3], humectate[obs3]; sponge, damp, bedew; imbue, imbrue, infiltrate, saturate; soak, drench &c. (water) 337. be moist &c. adj.; not have a dry thread; perspire &c. (exude) 295. Adj. moist, damp; watery &c.
Adj. champaign[obs3], alluvial; campestral[obs3], campestrial[obs3], campestrian[obs3], campestrine[obs3]. #345.
Marsh.-N. marsh, swamp, morass, marish[obs3], moss, fen, bog, quagmire, slough, sump, wash; mud, squash, slush; baygall [obs3][U.S.], cienaga[obs3], jhil[obs3], vlei[obs3].
Adj. marsh, marshy; swampy, boggy, plashy[obs3], poachy[obs3], quaggy[obs3], soft; muddy, sloppy, squashy; paludal[obs3]; moorish, moory; fenny. #346.
Island.-N. island, isle, islet, eyot[obs3], ait[obs3], # holf[obs3], reef, atoll, breaker; archipelago; islander. Adj. insular, seagirt; archipelagic[obs3]. _3.
Fluids in Motion_ #347. [Fluid in motion.] Stream.-N. stream &c. (of water) 348, (of # air) 349. flowmeter. V. flow &c.
Adj. fluent; diffluent[obs3], profluent[obs3], affluent; tidal; flowing &c. v.; meandering, meandry[obs3], meandrous[obs3]; fluvial, fluviatile; streamy[obs3], showery, rainy, pluvial, stillicidous|; stillatitious[obs3].
Eolus, Boreas, Zephyr, cave of Eolus. air pump, air blower, lungs, bellows, blowpipe, fan, ventilator, punkah[obs3]; branchiae[obs3], gills, flabellum[obs3], vertilabrum[obs3]. whiffle ball.
V. blow, waft; blow hard, blow great guns, blow a hurricane &c. n.; wuther[obs3]; stream, issue. respire, breathe, puff; whiff, whiffle; gasp, wheeze; snuff, snuffle; sniff, sniffle; sneeze, cough. fan, ventilate; inflate, perflate|; blow up.
V. inspissate[obs3], incrassate[obs3]; thicken, mash, squash, churn, beat up. sinter.
V. bubble, boil, foam, froth, mantle, sparkle, guggle[obs3], gurgle; effervesce, ferment, fizzle. Adj. bubbling &c. v.; frothy, nappy[obs3], effervescent, sparkling, mousseux[French: frothy], up. cloudy &c. n.; thunderheaded[obs3]; vaporous, nebulous, overcast.
Phr. "the lowring element scowls o'er the darkened landscip" [Paradise Lost]. #354.
Pulpiness.-N. pulpiness &c. adj.; pulp, taste, dough, curd, # pap, rob, jam, pudding, poultice, grume[obs3]. mush, oatmeal, baby food. Adj. pulpy &c. n.; pultaceous[obs3], grumous[obs3]; baccate[obs3]. #355.
Unctuousness.-N. unctuousness &c. adj.; unctuosity[obs3], # lubricity; ointment &c. (oil) 356; anointment; lubrication &c.
332. V. oil &c. (lubricate) 332. Adj. unctuous, oily, oleaginous, adipose, sebaceous; unguinous[obs3]; fat, fatty, greasy; waxy, butyraceous, soapy, saponaceous[obs3], pinguid, lardaceous[obs3]; slippery. #356.
Organization.-N. organized world, organized nature; living nature, animated nature; living beings; organic remains, fossils. protoplasm, cytoplasm, protein; albumen; structure &c.
329; organization, organism. [Science of living beings] biology; natural history, organic chemistry, anatomy, physiology; zoology &c.
368; botany; microbiology, virology, bacteriology, mycology &c.
Darwinism, neo-Darwinism, Lamarkism, neoLamarkism, Weismannism. morphology, taxonomy.
Adj. organic, organized; karyoplasmic[obs3], unsegmentic[obs3], vacuolar, zoogloeic[obs3], zoogloeoid[obs3]. #358.
Life.-N. life, vitality, viability; animation; vital spark, # vital flame, soul, spirit. respiration, wind; breath of life, breath of one's nostrils; oxygen, air. [devices to sustain respiration] respirator, artificial respirator, heart and lung machine, iron lung; medical devices &c.
662. lifeblood; Archeus[obs3]; existence &c.
1. vivification; vital force; vitalization; revivification &c.
Death.-N. death; decease, demise; dissolution, departure, obit, release, rest, quietus, fall; loss, bereavement; mortality, morbidity. end of life &c.
67, cessation of life &c.
142, loss of life, extinction of life, ebb of life &c.
Adv. post obit, post mortem[Lat].
Adj. killing &c. v.; murderous, slaughterous; sanguinary, sanguinolent[obs3]; blood stained, blood thirsty; homicidal, red handed; bloody, bloody minded; ensanguined[obs3], gory; thuggish. mortal, fatal, lethal; dead, deadly; mortiferous|, lethiferous[obs3]; unhealthy &c.
657; internecine; suicidal. sporting; piscatorial, piscatory[obs3].
Adv. in at the death.
Phr. "assassination has never changed the history of the world" [Disraeli]. #362.
V. inter, bury; lay in the grave, consign to the grave, lay in the tomb, entomb, in tomb; inhume; lay out, perform a funeral, embalm, mummify; toll the knell; put to bed with a shovel; inurn[obs3]. exhume, disinter, unearth.
Adj. burried &c. v.; burial, funereal, funebrial[obs3]; mortuary, sepulchral, cinerary[obs3]; elegiac; necroscopic[obs3].
Adv. in memoriam; post obit, post mortem[Lat]; beneath the sod.
Animality.-N. animal life; animation, animality[obs3], # animalization[obs3]; animalness, corporeal nature, human system; breath. flesh, flesh and blood; physique; strength &c.
159. Adj. fleshly, human, corporeal. #365.
Vegetability|.-N. vegetable life; vegetation, vegetability|; # vegetality[obs3]. V. vegetate, grow roots, put down roots. Adj. rank, lush; vegetable, vegetal, vegetive[obs3]. #366.
Adj. animal, zoological equine, bovine, vaccine, canine, feline, fishy; piscatory[obs3], piscatorial; molluscous[obs3], vermicular; gallinaceous, rasorial[obs3], solidungulate[obs3], soliped[obs3]. #367.
51; leaf. flower, blossom, bine[obs3]; flowering plant; timber tree, fruit tree; pulse, legume.
Adj. vegetable, vegetal, vegetive[obs3], vegitous|; herbaceous, herbal; botanic[obs3]; sylvan, silvan[obs3]; arborary[obs3], arboreous[obs3], arborescent[obs3], arborical|; woody, grassy; verdant, verdurous; floral, mossy; lignous[obs3], ligneous; wooden, leguminous; vosky[obs3], cespitose[obs3], turf-like, turfy; endogenous, exogenous.
V. tame, domesticate, acclimatize, breed, tend, break in, train; cage, bridle, &c. (restrain) 751.
V. cultivate; till the soil; farm, garden; sow, plant; reap, mow, cut; manure, dress the ground, dig, delve, dibble, hoe, plough, plow, harrow, rake, weed, lop and top; backset [obs3][U.S.].
Adj. agricultural, agrarian, agrestic[obs3]. arable, predial[obs3], rural, rustic, country; horticultural. #372.
Adj. human, mortal, personal, individual, national, civic, public, social; cosmopolitan; anthropoid.
Phr. "am I not a man and a brother?" [Wedgwood]. #373.
Eliot]; varium et mutabile semper femina [Lat][Vergil]; "woman is the lesser man" [Tennyson]. #374a.
Sexuality [human]-N. sex, sexuality, gender; male, # masculinity, maleness &c.
Physical Sensibility.-N. sensibility; sensitiveness &c. adj.; # physical sensibility, feeling, impressibility, perceptivity, aesthetics; moral sensibility &c.
Physical Insensibility.-N. insensibility, physical insensibility; obtuseness &c. adj.; palsy, paralysis, paraesthesia[Med], anaesthesia; sleep &c.
823; hemiplegia[obs3], motor paralysis; vegetable state; coma. anaesthetic agent, opium, ether, chloroform, chloral; nitrous oxide, laughing gas; exhilarating gas, protoxide of nitrogen[ISA:chemsubcfs]; refrigeration.
394; bonne bouche[Fr]. source of pleasure &c.
829; happiness &c. (mental enjoyment) 827.
Adj. enjoying &c. v.; luxurious, voluptuous, sensual, comfortable, cosy, snug, in comfort, at ease. pleasant, agreeable &c.
Adv. in comfort &c. n.; on a bed of roses &c. n.; at one's ease.
Phr. ride si sapis [Lat][Martial]; voluptales commendat rarior usus [Lat][Juvenal]. #378.
Physical Pain.-N. pain; suffering, sufferance, suffrance[obs3]; bodily pain, physical pain, bodily suffering, physical suffering, body pain; mental suffering &c.
Adj. in pain &c. n., in a state of pain; pained &c. v.; gouty, podagric[obs3], torminous[obs3]. painful; aching &c. v.; sore, raw. _2.
Special Sensation_ _(1) Touch_ #379. [Sensation of pressure] Touch.-N. touch; tact, taction[obs3], tactility; feeling; palpation, palpability; contrectation[obs3]; manipulation; massage. [Organ of touch] hand, finger, forefinger, thumb, paw, feeler, antenna; palpus[obs3].
V. touch, feel, handle, finger, thumb, paw, fumble, grope, grabble; twiddle, tweedle; pass the fingers over, run the fingers over; manipulate, wield; throw out a feeler.
Adj. tactual, tactile; tangible, palpable; lambent. #380.
376. Adj. numb; benumbed &c. v.; deadened; intangible, impalpable. _(2) Heat_ #382.
384. sun &c. (luminary) 423. [Science of heat] pyrology[obs3]; thermology[obs3], thermotics[obs3], thermodynamics; thermometer &c.
389. [thermal units] calorie, gram-calorie, small calorie; kilocalorie, kilogram calorie, large calorie; British Thermal Unit, B.T.U.; therm, quad. [units of temperature] degrees Kelvin, kelvins, degrees centigrade, degrees Celsius; degrees Fahrenheit.
V. be hot &c. adj.; glow, flush, sweat, swelter, bask, smoke, reek, stew, simmer, seethe, boil, burn, blister, broil, blaze, flame; smolder; parch, fume, pant. heat &c. (make hot) 384; recalesce[obs3]; thaw, give.
Adj. hot, warm, mild, genial, tepid, lukewarm, unfrozen; thermal, thermic; calorific; fervent, fervid; ardent; aglow. sunny, torrid, tropical, estival|!, canicular[obs3], steamy; close, sultry, stifling, stuffy, suffocating, oppressive; reeking &c. v.; baking &c.
Phr. not a breath of air; "whirlwinds of tempestuous fire" [Paradise Lost]. #383.
V. be cold &c. adj[intrans.].; shiver, starve, quake, shake, tremble, shudder, didder[obs3], quiver; freeze, freeze to death, perish with cold. [transitive] chill, freeze &c. (render cold) 385; horripilate[obs3], make the skin crawl, give one goose flesh.
Adv. coldly, bitterly &c. adj.; pierre fendre[Fr]; #384.
Calefaction.-N. increase of temperature; heating &c. v.; calefaction[obs3], tepefaction[obs3], torrefaction[obs3]; melting, fusion; liquefaction &c.
V. heat, warm, chafe, stive[obs3], foment; make hot &c.
Adj. heated &c. v.; molten, sodden; rchauff; heating &c. v.; adust[obs3]. inflammable, combustible; diathermal[obs3], diathermanous[obs3]; burnt &c. v.; volcanic, radioactive. #385.
Refrigeration.-N. refrigeration, infrigidation[obs3], reduction of temperature; cooling &c. v.; congelation[obs3], conglaciation| [obs3]; ice &c.
Adj. cooled &c. v.; frozen out; cooling &c. v.; frigorific[obs3]. #386.
Adj. carbonaceous; combustible, inflammable; high octane, high specific impulse; heat of combustion,. #388a.
Thermometer.-N. thermometer, thermometrograph[obs3], mercury thermometer, alcohol thermometer, clinical thermometer, dry-bulb thermometer, wet-bulb thermometer, Anschutz thermometer[Ger], gas thermometer, telethermometer; color-changing temperature indicator; thermopile, thermoscope[obs3]; pyrometer, calorimeter, bomb calorimeter; thermistor, thermocouple. [temperature-control devices] thermostat, thermoregulator. _(3) Taste_ #390.
Insipidity.-N. insipidity, blandness; tastelessness &c. adj. # V. be tasteless &c. adj. Adj. bland, void of taste &c.
390; insipid; tasteless, gustless|, savorless; ingustible|, mawkish, milk and water, weak, stale, flat, vapid, fade, wishy-washy, mild; untasted[obs3]. #392.
Pungency.-N. pungency, piquance, piquancy, poignancy haut- gout, strong taste, twang, race. sharpness &c. adj.; acrimony; roughness &c. (sour) 392; unsavoriness &c.
V. be pungent &c. adj.; bite the tongue. render -pungent &c. adj.; season, spice, salt, pepper, pickle, brine, devil. smoke, chew, take snuff.
Adj. pungent, strong; high-, full-flavored; high-tasted, high- seasoned; gamy, sharp, stinging, rough, piquant, racy; biting, mordant; spicy; seasoned &c. v.; hot, hot as pepper; peppery, vellicating[obs3], escharotic[obs3], meracious|; acrid, acrimonious, bitter; rough &c. (sour) 397; unsavory &c.
Saltiness.-N. saltiness. # niter, saltpeter, brine. Adj. salty, salt, saline, brackish, briny; salty as brine, salty as a herring, salty as Lot's wife. salty, racy (indecent) 961. Phr. take it with a grain of salt. #392b.
Bitterness-N. bitterness, acridness[obs3], acridity, # acrimony; caustic, alkali; acerbity; gall, wormwood; bitters, astringent bitters. [additive for alcoholic beverages]Angostura aromatic bitters. sourness &c.
392. [bitter substances] alkaloids; turmeric. Adj. bitter, bitterish, acrid, acerb, acerbic. Phr. bitter as gall; bitter pill to take; sugar coating on a bitter pill. #393.
Unsavoriness.-N. unsavoriness &c. adj.; amaritude[obs3]; acrimony, acridity (bitterness) 392b; roughness &c. (sour) 397; acerbity, austerity; gall and wormwood, rue, quassia[obs3], aloes; marah[obs3]; sickener[obs3].
V. be unpalatable &c. adj.; sicken, disgust, nauseate, pall, turn the stomach.
Adj. unsavory, unpalatable, unsweetened, unsweet[obs3]; ill-flavored; bitter, bitter as gall; acrid, acrimonious; rough. offensive, repulsive, nasty; sickening &c. v.; nauseous; loathsome, fulsome; unpleasant &c.
Adj. sweet; saccharine, sacchariferous[obs3]; dulcet, candied, honied[obs3], luscious, lush, nectarious[obs3], melliferous[obs3]; sweetened &c. v. sweet as a nut, sweet as sugar, sweet as honey. sickly sweet. Phr. eau sucre[Fr]; "sweets to the sweet" [Hamlet]. #397.
Odor.-N. odor, smell, odorament|, scent, effluvium; # emanation, exhalation; fume, essence, trail, nidor|, redolence. sense of smell; scent; act of smelling &c. v.; olfaction, olfactories[obs3]. [pleasant odor] fragrance &c.
Inodorousness.-N. inodorousness[obs3]; absence of smell, want # of smell. deodorant, deodorization, deodorizer. V. be inodorous &c. adj[obs3].; not smell. deodorize. Adj. inodorous[obs3], onodorate; scentless; without smell, wanting smell &c.
V. be fragrant &c. adj.; have a perfume &c. n.; smell sweet. scent[render fragrant], perfume, embalm.
Adj. fragrant, aromatic, redolent, spicy, savory, balmy, scented, sweet-smelling, sweet-scented; perfumed, perfumatory[obs3]; thuriferous; fragrant as a rose, muscadine[obs3], ambrosial. #401.
Fetor.-N. fetor[obs3]; bad &c. adj. smell, bad odor; stench, stink; foul odor, malodor; empyreuma[obs3]; mustiness &c. adj.; rancidity; foulness &c. (uncleanness) 653. stoat, polecat, skunk; assafoetida[obs3]; fungus, garlic; stinkpot; fitchet[obs3], fitchew[obs3], fourmart[obs3], peccary. acridity &c.
V. have a bad smell &c. n.; smell; stink, stink in the nostrils, stink like a polecat; smell strong &c. adj., smell offensively.
Adj. fetid; strong-smelling; high, bad, strong, fulsome, offensive, noisome, rank, rancid, reasty[obs3], tainted, musty, fusty, frouzy[obs3]; olid[obs3], olidous|; nidorous[obs3]; smelling, stinking; putrid &c.
653; suffocating, mephitic; empyreumatic[obs3]. #401a.
Acridity-N. acridity, astringency, bite. # [acrid substances] tear gas; smoke, acrid fumes. Adj. acrid, biting, astringent, sharp, harsh; bitter &c.
392b. _(5) Sound_ (i) SOUND IN GENERAL #402.
Sound.-N. sound, noise, strain; accent, twang, intonation, tone; cadence; sonorousness &c. adj.; audibility; resonance &c.
580; aspirate; ideophone[obs3]; rough breathing. [Science, of sound] acoustics; phonics, phonetics, phonology, phonography[obs3]; diacoustics[obs3], diaphonics[obs3]; phonetism[obs3].
V. produce sound; sound, make a noise; give out sound, emit sound; resound &c.
Adj. sounding; soniferous[obs3]; sonorous, sonorific[obs3]; resonant, audible, distinct; stertorous; phonetic; phonic, phonocamptic[obs3]. Phr. "a thousand trills and quivering sounds" [Addison]; forensis strepitus[Lat]. #403.
Silence.-N. silence; stillness &c. (quiet) 265; peace, hush, lull; muteness &c.
581; solemn silence, awful silence, dead silence, deathlike silence.
V. be silent &c. adj.; hold one's tongue &c. (not speak) 585. render silent &c. adj.; silence, still, hush; stifle, muffle, stop; muzzle, put to silence &c. (render mute) 581.
Adj. silent; still, stilly; noiseless, soundless; hushed &c. v.; mute &c. 581. soft, solemn, awful, deathlike, silent as the grave; inaudible &c. (faint) 405.
Adv. silently &c. adj.; sub silentio[Lat].
Rossetti]; tacent satis laudant[Latin]; better to be silent and thought a fool than to speak up and remove all doubt. #404.
Loudness.-N. loudness, power; loud noise, din; blare; clang, clangor; clatter, noise, bombilation[obs3], roar, uproar, racket, hubbub, bobbery[obs3], fracas, charivari[obs3], trumpet blast, flourish of trumpets, fanfare, tintamarre[obs3], peal, swell, blast, larum[obs3], boom; bang (explosion) 406; resonance &c.
411; lungs; Stentor. artillery, cannon; thunder.
V. be loud &c. adj.; peal, swell, clang, boom, thunder, blare, fulminate, roar; resound &c.
Adj. loud, sonorous; high-sounding, big-sounding; deep, full, powerful, noisy, blatant, clangorous, multisonous[obs3]; thundering, deafening &c. v; trumpet-tongued; ear-splitting, ear-rending, ear- deafening; piercing; obstreperous, rackety, uproarious; enough to wake the dead, enough to wake seven sleepers. shrill &c.
410 clamorous &c. (vociferous) 411 stentorian, stentorophonic|.
Adv. loudly &c. adj. aloud; at the top of one's voice, at the top of one's lungs, lustily, in full cry.
Phr. the air rings with; "the deep dread-bolted thunder" [Lear]. #405.
Faintness.-N. faintness &c. adj.; faint sound, whisper, breath; undertone, underbreath[obs3]; murmur, hum, susurration; tinkle; "still small voice." hoarseness &c. adj.; raucity[obs3].
V. whisper, breathe, murmur, purl, hum, gurgle, ripple, babble, flow; tinkle; mutter &c. (speak imperfectly) 583; susurrate[obs3]. steal on the ear; melt in the air, float on the air.
Heewhack! pow! #407. [Repeated and protracted sounds.] Roll.-N. roll &c. v.; # drumming &c. v.; berloque[obs3], bombination[obs3], rumbling; tattoo, drumroll; dingdong; tantara[obs3]; rataplan[obs3]; whirr; ratatat, ratatat- tat; rubadub; pitapat; quaver, clutter, charivari[obs3], racket; cuckoo; repetition &c.
V. resound, reverberate, reecho, resonate; ring, jingle, gingle[obs3], chink, clink; tink[obs3], tinkle; chime; gurgle &c.
405 plash, goggle, echo, ring in the ear.
Adj. resounding &c. v.; resonant, reverberant, tinnient|, tintinnabulary; sonorous, booming, deep-toned, deep-sounding, deep-mouthed, vibrant; hollow, sepulchral; gruff &c. (harsh) 410.
Phr. "sweet bells jangled, out of time and harsh" [Hamlet]; echoing down the mountain and through the dell. #408a.
414; stridor; roughness, sharpness, &c. adj.; cacophony; cacoepy[obs3]. acute note, high note; soprano, treble, tenor, alto, falsetto, penny trumpet, voce di testa[It].
Adj. creaking &c. v.; stridulous[obs3], harsh, coarse, hoarse, horrisonous|, rough, gruff, grum[obs3], sepulchral, hollow. sharp, high, acute, shrill; trumpet-toned; piercing, ear-piercing, high-pitched, high-toned; cracked; discordant &c.
Cry.-N. cry &c. v.; voice &c. (human) 580; hubbub; bark &c. (animal) 412. vociferation, outcry, hullabaloo, chorus, clamor, hue and cry, plaint; lungs; stentor.
Adj. crying &c. v.; clamant[obs3], clamorous; vociferous; stentorian &c. (loud) 404; open-mouthed. #412. [Animal sounds.] Ululation.-N. cry &c. v.; crying &c. v.; bowwow, ululation, latration[obs3], belling; reboation[obs3]; wood-note; insect cry, fritiniancy|, drone; screech owl; cuckoo. wailing (lamentation) 839.
Adj. crying &c. v.; blatant, latrant[obs3], remugient[obs3], mugient[obs3]; deep-mouthed, full-mouthed; rebellowing[obs3], reboant[obs3].
Adv. in full cry. (iii) MUSICAL SOUNDS #413.
415[Fr]; composer, harmonist[obs3], contrapuntist (musician) 416.
V. be harmonious &c. adj.; harmonize, chime, symphonize[obs3], transpose; put in tune, tune, accord, string.
Adv. harmoniously, in harmony; as one &c. adj.
Phr. "the hidden soul of harmony" [Milton]. #414.
Discord.-N. discord, discordance; dissonance, cacophony, want of harmony, caterwauling; harshness &c.
Babel[Confused sounds]; Dutch concert, cat's concert; marrowbones and cleavers.
V. be discordant &c. adj.; jar &c. (sound harshly) 410.
Adj. discordant; dissonant, absonant[obs3]; out of tune, tuneless; unmusical, untunable[obs3]; unmelodious, immelodious[obs3]; unharmonious[obs3], inharmonious; singsong; cacophonous; harsh &c.
Music.-N. music; concert; strain, tune, air; melody &c.
Adj. musical; instrumental, vocal, choral, lyric, operatic; harmonious &c.
Adv. adagio; largo, larghetto, andante, andantino[obs3]; alla capella[It][obs3]; maestoso[obs3], moderato; allegro, allegretto; spiritoso[obs3], vivace[obs3], veloce[obs3]; presto, prestissimo[obs3]; con brio; capriccioso[obs3]; scherzo, scherzando[obs3]; legato, staccato, crescendo, diminuendo, rallentando[obs3], affettuoso[obs3]; obbligato; pizzicato; desto[obs3].
Oyez! listen up [coll.]; listen here! hear ye! attention! achtung [German]. #419.
Adj. dark, darksome[obs3], darkling; obscure, tenebrious[obs3], sombrous[obs3], pitch dark, pitchy, pitch black; caliginous[obs3]; black &c. (in color) 431. sunless, lightless &c. (see sun[obs3], light, &c.
423); somber, dusky; unilluminated &c. (see illuminate &c.
420)[obs3]; nocturnal; dingy, lurid, gloomy; murky, murksome[obs3]; shady, umbrageous; overcast &c. (dim) 422; cloudy &c. (opaque) 426; darkened; &c. v. dark as pitch, dark as a pit, dark as Erebus[Lat]. benighted; noctivagant!|, noctivagous!|.
Adv. in the dark, in the shade.
Phr. "brief as the lightning in the collied night" [M.
N. D.]; "eldest Night and Chaos, ancestors of Nature" [P.
L.]; "the blackness of the noonday night" [Longfellow]; "the prayer of Ajax was for light" [Longfellow]. #422.
Dimness.-N. dimness &c. adj.; darkness &c.
421; paleness &c. # (light color) 429. half light, demi-jour; partial shadow, partial eclipse; shadow of a shade; glimmer, gliming[obs3]; nebulosity; cloud &c.
V. illuminate &c. (light) 420.
Adj. self-luminous, glowing; phosphoric|!, phosphorescent, fluorescent; incandescent; luminescent, chemiluminescent; radiant &c. (light) 420.
Shade.-N. shade; awning &c. (cover) 223; parasol, sunshade, # umbrella; chick; portiere; screen, curtain, shutter, blind, gauze, veil, chador, mantle, mask; cloud, mist, gathering. of clouds. umbrage, glade; shadow &c.
421. beach umbrella, folding umbrella. V. draw a curtain; put up a shutter, close a shutter; veil &c. v.; cast a shadow &c. (darken) 421. Adj. shady, umbrageous. Phr. "welcome ye shades! ye bowery thickets hail" [Thomson]. #425.
Transparency.-N. transparence, transparency; clarity; translucence, translucency; diaphaneity[obs3]; lucidity, pellucidity[obs3], limpidity; fluorescence; transillumination, translumination[obs3]. transparent medium, glass, crystal, lymph, vitrite[obs3], water.
V. be transparent &c. adj.; transmit light.
Adj. transparent, pellucid, lucid, diaphanous, translucent, tralucent|, relucent[obs3]; limpid, clear, serene, crystalline, clear as crystal, vitreous, transpicuous[obs3], glassy, hyaline; hyaloid[Med], vitreform[obs3]. #426.
Opacity.-N. opacity; opaqueness &c. adj. # film; cloud &c.
353. V. be opaque &c. adj.; obstruct the passage of light; obfuscate, offuscate|. Adj. opaque, impervious to light; adiaphanous[obs3]; dim &c.
422; turbid, thick, muddy, opacous|, obfuscated, fuliginous[obs3], cloud, hazy, misty, foggy, vaporous, nubiferous[obs3], muggy|| (turbidity) 426a. smoky, fumid[obs3], murky, dirty. #426a.
Turbidity-N. turbidity, cloudiness, fog, haze, muddiness, # haziness, obscurity. nephelometer[instrument to measure turbidity]. Adj. turbid, thick, muddy, obfuscated, fuliginous[obs3], hazy, misty, foggy, vaporous, nubiferous[obs3]; cloudy (cloud) 353. smoky, fumid[obs3], murky, dirty. #427.
Semitransparency.-N. semitransparency, translucency, # semiopacity; opalescence, milkiness, pearliness[obs3]; gauze, muslin; film; mica, mother-of-pearl, nacre; mist &c. (cloud) 353. [opalescent jewel] opal. turbidity &c.
426a. Adj. semitransparent, translucent, semipellucid[obs3], semidiaphanous[obs3], semiopacous[obs3], semiopaque; opalescent, opaline[obs3]; pearly, milky; frosted, nacreous. V. opalesce. (ii) SPECIFIC LIGHT #428.
V. color, dye, tinge, stain, tint, tinct[obs3], paint, wash, ingrain, grain, illuminate, emblazon, bedizen, imbue; paint &c. (fine art) 556.
428; fade, fly, go; become colorless &c. adj.; turn pale, pale. deprive of color, decolorize, bleach, tarnish, achromatize, blanch, etiolate, wash out, tone down.
Adj. uncolored &c. (see color &c.
428); colorless, achromatic, aplanatic[obs3]; etiolate, etiolated; hueless[obs3], pale, pallid; palefaced[obs3], tallow-faced; faint, dull, cold, muddy, leaden, dun, wan, sallow, dead, dingy, ashy, ashen, ghastly, cadaverous, glassy, lackluster; discolored &c. v. light-colored, fair, blond; white &c.
430. pale as death, pale as ashes, pale as a witch, pale as a ghost, pale as a corpse, white as a corpse. #430.
Whiteness.-N. whiteness &c. adj.; argent. albification[obs3], etiolation; lactescence[obs3]. snow, paper, chalk, milk, lily, ivory, alabaster; albata[obs3], eburin[obs3], German silver, white metal, barium sulphate[Chem], titanium oxide, blanc fixe[Fr], ceruse[obs3], pearl white; white lead, carbonate of lead.
V. be white &c. adj. render white &c. adj.; whiten, bleach, blanch, etiolate, whitewash, silver.
Blackness.-N. blackness &c. adj.; darkness &c. (want of light).
421; swartliness[obs3], lividity, dark color, tone, color; chiaroscuro &c.
420. nigrification[obs3], infuscation[obs3]. jet, ink, ebony, coal pitch, soot, charcoal, sloe, smut, raven, crow. [derogatory terms for black-skinned people] Negro, blackamoor, man of color, nigger, darkie, Ethiop, black; buck, nigger [U.
S.], sambo. [Pigments] lampblack, ivory black, blueblack; writing ink, printing ink, printer's ink, Indian ink, India ink.
V. be black &c. adj.; render -black &c. adj. blacken, infuscate[obs3], denigrate; blot, blotch; smutch[obs3]; smirch; darken &c.
Gray.-N. gray &c. adj.; neutral tint, silver, pepper and salt, chiaroscuro, grisaille[Fr]. [Pigments] Payne's gray; black &c. 431.
Adj. gray, grey; iron-gray, dun, drab, dingy, leaden, livid, somber, sad, pearly, russet, roan; calcareous, limy, favillous[obs3]; silver, silvery, silvered; ashen, ashy; cinereous[obs3], cineritious[obs3]; grizzly, grizzled; slate-colored, stone-colored, mouse-colored, ash- colored; cool. #433.
Brown.-N. brown &c. adj. bister[obs3][Pigments], ocher, sepia, Vandyke brown.
V. render brown &c. adj.; tan, embrown[obs3], bronze.
Yellowness.-N. yellow &c. adj.; or. [Pigments] gamboge; cadmium-yellow, chrome-yellow, Indian-yellow king's-yellow, lemonyellow; orpiment[obs3], yellow ocher, Claude tint, aureolin[obs3]; xanthein[Chemsub], xanthin[obs3]; zaofulvin[obs3]. crocu s, saffron, topaz; xanthite[obs3]; yolk. jaundice; London fog|!; yellowness &c. adj.; icterus[obs3]; xantho- cyanopia|!, xanthopsia[Med].
Purple.-N. purple &c. adj.; blue and red, bishop's purple; # aniline dyes, gridelin[obs3], amethyst; purpure[Heraldry]; heliotrope. lividness, lividity. V. empurple[obs3]. Adj. purple, violet, ultraviolet; plum-colored, lavender, lilac, puce, mauve; livid. #438.
V. be variegated &c. adj.; variegate, stripe, streak, checker, chequer; bespeckle[obs3], speckle; besprinkle, sprinkle; stipple, maculate, dot, bespot[obs3]; tattoo, inlay, damascene; embroider, braid, quilt.
Adj. seeing &c. v.; visual, ocular; optic, optical; ophthalmic. clear-eyesighted &c. n.; eagle-eyed, hawk-eyed, lynx-eyed, keen-eyed, Argus-eyed. visible &c.
446; in sight of, with one's eyes open at sight, at first sight, at a glance, at the first blush; prima facie[Lat].
Int. look! &c. (attention) 457.
Phr. the scales falling from one's eyes; "an eye like Mars to threaten or command" [Hamlet]; "her eyes are homes of silent prayer" [Tennyson]; "looking before and after" [Hamlet]; "thy rapt soul sitting in thine eyes" [Milton]. #442.
Blindness.-N. blindness, cecity[obs3], excecation|, amaurosis[obs3], cataract, ablepsy|, ablepsia[obs3], prestriction|; dim- sightedness &c.
443; Braille, Braille-type; guttaserena ("drop serene"), noctograph[obs3], teichopsia[obs3].
Adj. blind; eyeless, sightless, visionless; dark; stone-blind, sand- blind, stark-blind; undiscerning[obs3]; dimsighted &c.
443. blind as a bat, blind as a buzzard, blind as a beetle, blind as a mole, blind as an owl; wall-eyed. blinded &c. v.
Adv. blindly, blindfold, blindfolded; darkly. Phr.
Adj. dim-sighted &c. n.; myopic, presbyopic[obs3]; astigmatic moon- eyed, mope-eyed, blear-eyed, goggle-eyed, gooseberry-eyed, one-eyed; blind of one eye, monoculous[obs3]; half-blind, purblind; cock-eyed, dim-eyed, mole-eyed; dichroic. blind as a bat &c. (blind) 442; winking &c. v. #444.
Spectator.-N. spectator, beholder, observer, looker-on, onlooker, witness, eyewitness, bystander, passer by; sightseer; rubberneck * [U.
S.]. spy; sentinel &c. (warning) 668. V. witness, behold &c. (see) 441; look on &c. (be present) 186; gawk, rubber *, rubberneck *[U.S.]. #445.
X-ray diffractometer, goniometer. spectrometer, monochrometer, UV spectrometer, visible spectrometer, Infrared spectrometer, Fourier transform infrared spectrometer, recording spectrometer; densitometer, scanning densitometer, two-dimensional densitometer. abdominoscope[obs3], gastroscope[Med], helioscope[obs3], polariscope[obs3], polemoscope[obs3], spectroscope. abdominoscopy[obs3]; gastroscopy[Med]; microscopy, microscopist. #446.
Visibility.-N. visibility, perceptibility; conspicuousness, distinctness &c. adj.; conspicuity[obs3], conspicuousness; appearance &c.
448; bassetting[obs3]; exposure; manifestation &c.
525; ocular proof, ocular evidence, ocular demonstration; field of view &c. (vision) 441; periscopism[obs3].
457; reappear; live in a glass house. expose to view &c.
Adv. visibly &c. adj.; in sight of; before one's eyes &c. adj.; veluti in speculum[Lat]. #447.
Invisibility.-N. invisibility, invisibleness, nonappearance, # imperceptibility; indistinctness &c. adj.; mystery, delitescence[obs3]. concealment &c.
526. V. be invisible &c. adj.; be hidden &c. (hide) 528; lurk &c. (lie hidden) 526; escape notice. render invisible &c. adj.; conceal &c.
V. appear; be visible, become visible &c.
Adj. apparent, seeming, ostensible; on view.
Adv. apparently; to all seeming, to all appearance; ostensibly, seemingly, as it seems, on the face of it, prima facie [Lat]; at the first blush, at first sight; in the eyes of; to the eye.
Phr. editio princeps [Lat]. #449.
Disappearance.-N. disappearance, evanescence, eclipse, # occultation. departure &c.
498; ability &c. (skill) 698; wisdom &c.
317; universal concept, universal conception. metaphysician, psychologist &c.
V. note, notice, mark; take notice of, take cognizance of be aware of, be conscious of; realize; appreciate; ruminate &c. (think) 451; fancy &c. (imagine) 515.
Adj. intellectual[Relating to intellect], mental, rational, subjective, metaphysical, nooscopic[obs3], spiritual; ghostly; psychical[obs3], psychological; cerebral; animastic[obs3]; brainy; hyperphysical[obs3], superphysical[obs3]; subconscious, subliminal. immaterial &c.
Absence or want of Intellect.-N. absence of intellect, want # of intellect &c.
499.: brutality, brute force. instinct, brute instinct, stimulus-response loop, conditioned response, instinctive reaction, Pavlovian response. mimicry, aping (imitation) 19. moron, imbecile, idiot; fool &c.
501; dumb animal; vegetable, brain- dead. Adj. unendowed with reason, void of reason; thoughtless; vegetative; moronic, idiotic, brainless [all pejorative]. Adv. instinctively, like Pavlov's dog; vegetatively. V. mimic, ape (imitate) 19; respond instinctively. #451.
Adj. thinking &c. v.; thoughtful, pensive, meditative, reflective, museful[obs3], wistful, contemplative, speculative, deliberative, studious, sedate, introspective, Platonic, philosophical. lost in thought &c. (inattentive) 458; deep musing &c. (intent) 457. in the mind, under consideration.
Meredith]; "go speed the stars of Thought"[Emerson]; "in maiden meditation fancy-free" [M.
499; thoughtlessness &c. (inattention) 458; vacuity. couch potato, vegetable. V. not think &c.
451; not think of; dismiss from the mind, dismiss from the thoughts &c.
451. indulge in reverie &c. (be inattentive) 458. put away thought; unbend the mind, relax the mind, divert the mind, veg out. Adj. vacant, unintellectual, unideal[obs3], unoccupied, unthinking, inconsiderate, thoughtless, mindless, no-brain, vacuous; absent &c. (inattentive) 458; diverted; irrational &c.
451. Adj. thought of; uppermost in the mind; in petto. Adv. under consideration; in question, in the mind; on foot, on the carpet, on the docket, on the tapis[obs3]; relative to &c.
V. be curious &c. adj.; take an interest in, stare, gape; prick up the ears, see sights, lionize; pry; nose; rubberneck*[U.
Adj. curious, inquisitive, burning with curiosity, overcurious; inquiring &c.
461; prying, snoopy, nosy, peering; prurient; inquisitorial, inquisitory[obs3]; curious as a cat; agape &c. (expectant) 507.
Phr. what's the matter? what next? consumed with curiosity; curiosity killed the cat, satisfaction brought it back. "curiouser and curiouser" [Alice in Wonderland]. #456. [Absence of curiosity.] Incuriosity.-N. incuriosity, incuriousness &c. adj.; insouciance &c.
866; indifference, lack of interest, disinterest. boredom, ennui (weariness) 841; satiety &c.
V. be incurious &c. adj.; have no curiosity &c.
455; take no interest in &c.
823; mind one's own business.
Adj. incurious, uninquisitive, indifferent; impassive &c. 823; uninterested, detached, aloof. #457.
Attention.-N. attention; mindfulness, presence of mind &c. adj.; intentness, intentiveness[obs3]; alertness; thought &c.
Int. see! look, look here, look you, look to it! mark! lo! behold! soho[obs3]! hark, hark ye! mind! halloo! observe! lo and behold! attention! nota bene [Latin], "N.B.", note well; I'd have you to know; notice!
Phr. this is to give notice, these are to give notice; dictum sapienti sat est [Latin: a word to the wise is sufficient]; finem respice[Lat].
Oyez!; Achtung[German]; vnimanie[Russ][Russian]; chui[Japanese]. #458.
V. be inattentive &c. adj.; overlook, disregard; pass by &c. (neglect) 460 not observe &c.
Adv. inattentively, inadvertently, absent-mindedly &c. adj[obs3].; per incuriam[Lat], sub silentio[Lat]. Int. stand at ease, stand easy!
Care. [Vigilance.]-N. care, solicitude, heed; heedfulness &c. adj.; scruple &c. (conscientiousness) 939. watchfulness &c. adj.; vigilance, surveillance, eyes of Argus[obs3], watch, vigil, look out, watch and ward, loeil du maitre[Fr]. alertness &c. (activity) 682; attention &c.
457; prudence &c., circumspection &c. (caution) 864; anxiety; forethought &c.
510; precaution &c. (preparation) 673; tidiness &c. (order) 58, (cleanliness) 652; accuracy &c. (exactness) 494; minuteness, attention to detail.
V. be careful &c. adj.; reck[obs3]; take care &c. (be cautious) 864; pay attention to &c.
Adv. carefully &c. adj.; with care, gingerly.
Phr. quis custodiet istos custodes? [Latin: who will watch the watchers?]; "care will kill a cat" [Wither]; ni bebas agua que no veas [Sp]; "O polished perturbation!
Golden care!" [Henry IV]; "the incessant care and labor of his mind" [Henry IV]. #460.
Neglect.-N. neglect; carelessness &c. adj.; trifling &c. v.; negligence; omission, oversight, laches[Law], default; supineness &c. (inactivity) 683; inattention &c.
458; nonchalance &c. (insensibility) 823; imprudence, recklessness &c.
863; slovenliness &c. (disorder) 59, (dirt) 653; improvidence &c.
730; inexactness &c. (error) 495. paralipsis, paralepsis, paraleipsis [in rhetoric]. trifler, waiter on Providence; Micawber.
V. be negligent &c. adj.; take no care of &c. (take care of &c.
457, not mind; not trouble oneself about, not trouble one's head about, not trouble oneself with; forget &c.
506; be caught napping &c. (not expect) 508; leave a loose thread; let the grass grow under one's feet. render neglectful &c. adj.; put off one's guard, throw off one's guard; distract, divert.
Adj. neglecting &c. v.; unmindful, negligent, neglectful; heedless, careless, thoughtless; perfunctory, remiss; feebleness &c.
575. inconsiderate; uncircumspect[obs3], incircumspect[obs3]; off one's guard; unwary, unwatchful[obs3], unguarded; offhand. supine &c. (inactive) 683; inattentive &c.
458; insouciant &c. (indifferent) 823; imprudent, reckless &c.
863; slovenly &c. (disorderly) 59, (dirty) 653; inexact &c. (erroneous) 495; improvident &c.
674. neglected &c. v.; unheeded, uncared-for, unperceived, unseen, unobserved, unnoticed, unnoted[obs3], unmarked, unattended to, unthought of, unregarded[obs3], unremarked, unmissed[obs3]; shunted, shelved. unexamined, unstudied, unsearched[obs3], unscanned[obs3], unweighed[obs3], unsifted, unexplored. abandoned; buried in a napkin, hid under a bushel.
Adv. negligently &c. adj.; hand over head, anyhow; in an unguarded moment &c. (unexpectedly) 508; per incuriam[Lat].
Int. never mind, no matter, let it pass.
Phr. out of sight, out of mind. #461.
765; search, research, quest, pursuit &c.
Adv. what? why? wherefore? whence? whither? where? quaere? how comes it[Lat], how happens it, how is it? what is the reason? what's the matter, what's in the wind? what on earth? when? who? nicht wahr?[Ger]. #462.
Answer.-N. answer, response, reply, replication, riposte, # rejoinder, surrejoinder[obs3], rebutter, surrebutter[obs3], retort, repartee; rescript, rescription[obs3]; antiphon[obs3], antiphony; acknowledgment; password; echo; counter statement. discovery &c.
480a; solution &c. (explanation) 522; rationale &c. (cause) 153; clue &c. (indication) 550. Oedipus; oracle &c.
467. [reasoning about an experiment] deduction, induction, abduction.
Adj. experimental, empirical. probative, probatory[obs3], probationary, provisional; analytic, docimastic[obs3]; tentative;unverified, unproven, speculative, untested.
Adv. on trial, under examination, on probation, under probation, on one's trial, on approval.
Phr. check it out, give it a try, see how it goes; "Run it up the flagpole and see who salutes." #464.
521. compared with &c. v.; comparable; judged by comparison. Adv. relatively &c. (relation) 9; as compared with &c. v. Phr. comparisons are odious; "comparisons are odorous" [Much Ado about Nothing]. #464a.
Incomparability [Lack of comparison]-N. incomparability; # incommensurability; indistinguishablility &c.
465a. Adj. incommensurable, incommensurate; incomparable; different &c.15. Phr. like apples and oranges; no basis for comparison; no standard for comparison. #465. [results of comparison.
1] Discrimination.-N. discrimination, distinction, differentiation, diagnosis, diorism[obs3]; nice perception; perception of difference, appreciation of difference; estimation &c.
466; nicety, refinement; taste &c.
850; critique, judgment; tact; discernment &c. (intelligence) 498; acuteness, penetration; nuances. dope*, past performances.
Adj. discriminating &c. v.; dioristic[obs3], discriminative, distinctive; nice.
Phr. il y a fagots et fagots; rem acu tetigisti[Lat][obs3]; la critique est aisee et l'art est difficile [Fr]; miles apart; a distinction without a difference. #465a. [results of comparison.
2] Indiscrimination.-N. # indiscrimination[obs3], indistinguishability; indistinctness, indistinction[obs3]; uncertainty &c. (doubt) 475; incomparability &c. 464a. V. not discriminate &c.
465; overlook &c. (neglect) 460 a distinction: confound, confuse. Adj. indiscriminate; undistinguished|!, indistinguishable, undistinguishable[obs3]; unmeasured; promiscuous, undiscriminating. Phr. valeat quantum valere potest[Lat.]. #465b. [results of comparison.
3] Identification.-N. identification, recognition, diagnosis, match; apperception, assimilation; dereplication; classification; memory &c.
V. identify, recognize, match, match up; classify; recall, remember &c. (memory) 505; find similarity (similarity) 17; put in its proper place, put in its proper niche, place in order (arrangement) 60. #466.
550. scale; graduation, graduated scale; nonius[obs3]; vernier &c. (minuteness) 193. [instruments for measuring] bathometer, galvanometer, heliometer, interferometer, odometer, ombrometer[obs3], pantometer[obs3], pluviometer[obs3], pneumatometer[obs3], pneumometer[obs3], radiometer, refractometer, respirometer, rheometer, spirometer[obs3], telemeter, udometer[obs3], vacuometer[obs3], variometer[obs3], viameter[obs3], thermometer, thermistor (heat &c.
29; graduate. Adj. measuring &c. v.; metric, metrical; measurable, perceptible, noticeable, detectable, appreciable, ponderable, determinable, fathomable; geodetical, topographic, topographical, cartographic, cartographical. SECTION III.
Evidence [On one side.]-N. evidence; facts, premises, data, praecognita[Lat], grounds. indication &c.
550; criterion &c. (test) 463. testimony, testification[obs3], expert testimony; attestation; deposition &c. (affirmation) 535; examination. admission &c. (assent) 488; authority, warrant, credential, diploma, voucher, certificate, doquet[obs3], docket; testamur[obs3]; record &c.
463. have a case, make out a case; establish, authenticate, substantiate, verify, make good, quote chapter and verse; bring home to, bring to book.
Adj. showing &c. v.; indicative, indicatory; deducible &c.
478; grounded on, founded on, based on; corroborative, confirmatory. Adv. by inference; according to, witness, a fortiori; still more, still less; raison de plus[Fr]; in corroboration &c. n. of; valeat quantum[Lat]; under seal, under one's hand and seal.
Phr. dictum de dicto[Lat]; mise en evidence[Fr.]. #468. [Evidence on the other side, on the other hand.] Counter Evidence.-N. counter evidence; evidence on the other side, evidence on the other hand; conflicting evidence, contradictory evidence, opposing evidence; disproof, refutation &c.
536. plea &c. 617; vindication &c.
937 counter protest; "tu quoque" argument; other side of the shield, other side of the coin, reverse of the shield.
Adj. countervailing &c. v.; contradictory. unattested, unauthenticated, unsupported by evidence; supposititious.
Adv. on the contrary, per contra. #469.
470. subject to, conditioned upon; with this proviso &c. n. Phr. "if the good lord is willing and the creeks don't rise"; catch-22. _Degrees of Evidence_ #470.
Possibility.-N. possibility, potentiality; what may be, what # is possible &c. adj.; compatibility &c. (agreement) 23. practicability, feasibility; practicableness &c. adj. contingency, chance &c.
156. V. be possible &c. adj.; stand a chance; admit of, bear. render possible &c. adj.; put in the way of. Adj. possible; in the cards, on the dice; in posse, within the bounds of possibility, conceivable, credible; compatible &c.
V.; as luck may have it. Phr. misericordia Domini inter pontem et fontent[Lat]; "the glories of the Possible are ours" [B.
Taylor]; anything is possible; in theory possible, but in practise unlikely. #471.
Impossibility.-N. impossibility &c. adj.; what cannot, what can never be; sour grapes; hopelessness &c.
Adj. impossible; not possible &c.
470; absurd, contrary to reason; unlikely; unreasonable &c.
24; inaccessible, uncomeatable[obs3], impassable, impervious, innavigable[obs3], inextricable; self-contradictory. out of one's power, beyond one's power, beyond one's depth, beyond one's reach, beyond one's grasp; too much for; ultra crepidam[Lat].
Phr. the grapes are sour; non possumus[Lat]; non nostrum tantas componere lites [Lat][Vergil]; look for a needle in a haystack, chercher une aiguille dans une botte de foin [obs3][Fr.]; il a le mer boire[obs3]. #472.
507; count upon &c. (believe) 484.
Adj. probable, likely, hopeful, to be expected, in a fair way. plausible, specious, ostensible, colorable, ben trovato[It], well- founded, reasonable, credible, easy of belief, presumable, presumptive, apparent.
Improbability.-N. improbability, unlikelihood; unfavorable chance, bad chance, ghost of a chance, little chance, small chance, poor chance, scarcely any chance, no chance; bare possibility; long odds; incredibility &c.
V. be improbable &c. adj.; have a small chance &c. n.
Adj. improbable, unlikely, contrary to all reasonable expectation; wild, far out, out of sight, outtasight, heavy [all coll.]. rare &c. (infrequent) 137; unheard of, inconceivable; unimaginable, inimaginable[obs3]; incredible &c.
485; more than doubtful; strange, bizarre (uncomformable) 83.
Phr. the chances are against; aquila non capit muscas[Lat]; pedir peras pal olmo[Lat]. #474.
V. be certain &c. adj.; stand to reason. render certain &c. adj.; insure, ensure, assure; clinch, make sure; determine, decide, set at rest, "make assurance double sure" [Macbeth]; know &c. (believe) 484. dogmatize, lay down the law.
Adj. certain, sure, assured &c. v.; solid, well-founded. unqualified, absolute, positive, determinate, definite, clear, unequivocal, categorical, unmistakable, decisive, decided, ascertained. inevitable, unavoidable, avoidless[obs3]; ineluctable. unerring, infallible; unchangeable &c.
Uncertainty.-N. uncertainty, incertitude, doubt; doubtfulness &c. adj.; dubiety, dubitation[obs3], dubitancy|, dubitousness[obs3]. hesitation, suspense; perplexity, embarrassment, dilemma, bewilderment; timidity &c. (fear) 860; vacillation &c.
Adj. uncertain; casual; random &c. (aimless) 621; changeable &c.
491; afraid to say; out of one's reckoning, astray, adrift; at sea, at fault, at a loss, at one's wit's end, at a nonplus; puzzled &c. v.; lost, abroad, dsorient; distracted, distraught.
Adv. pendente lite[Lat]; sub spe rati[Lat].
Heaven knows; who can tell? who shall decide when doctors disagree? ambiguas in vulgum spargere voces[Lat]. SECTION IV.
477} reasoning, ratiocination, rationalism; dialectics, induction, generalization. discussion, comment; ventilation; inquiry &c.
461. argumentation, controversy, debate; polemics, wrangling; contention &c.
478; subtle reasoning; force of argument, strong point, strong argument, persuasive argument. arguments, reasons, pros and cons.
480. follow from &c. (demonstration) 478.
Adj. reasoning &c. v.; rationalistic; argumentative, controversial, dialectic, polemical; discursory[obs3], discursive; disputatious; Aristotelian[obs3], eristic[obs3], eristical[obs3]. debatable, controvertible. logical; relevant &c.
V. judge intuitively, judge by intuition; hazard a proposition, hazard a guess, talk at random. reason ill, falsely &c. adj.; misjudge &c.
481; paralogize[obs3]. take on faith, take as a given; assume (supposition) 514. pervert, quibble; equivocate, mystify, evade, elude; gloss over, varnish; misteach &c.
Adv. intuitively &c. adj.; by intuition; illogically &c. adj.
Phr. non constat[Lat]; that goes for nothing. #478.
479} demonstration, proof, rigorous # proof; conclusiveness &c. adj.; apodeixis[obs3], apodixis[obs3], probation, comprobation|. logic of facts &c. (evidence) 467; experimentum crucis &c. (test) 463[Lat]; argument &c.
Confutation.-N. {ant 478} confutation, refutation; answer, complete answer; disproof, conviction, redargution[obs3], invalidation; exposure, exposition; clincher; retort; reductio ad absurdum; knock down argument, tu quoque argument[Lat]; sockdolager * [obs3][U.
Adj. confuting, confuted, &c. v.; capable of refutation; refutable, confutable[obs3], defeasible. contravene (counter evidence) 468. condemned on one's own showing,condemned out of one's own mouth.
Phr. the argument falls to the ground, cadit quaestio[Lat], it does not hold water, "suo sibi gladio hunc jugulo" [Terence]; his argument was demolished by new evidence. SECTION V.
524; inspector, inspecting officer. twenty-twenty hindsight[judgment after the fact]; armchair general, monday morning quarterback.
Adj. judging &c. v.; judicious &c. (wise) 498; determinate, conclusive.
Adv. on the whole, all things considered.
V. discover, find, determine, evolve, learn &c.
529. trace, get at; hit it, have it; lay one's finger, lay one's hands upon; spot; get at the truth, arrive at the truth &c.
Misjudgment.-N. misjudgment, obliquity of judgment; miscalculation, miscomputation, misconception &c. (error) 495; hasty conclusion. [causes of misjudgment.
491. erroneous assumptions, erroneous data, mistaken assumptions, incorrect assumptions (error) 495.
V. misjudge, misestimate, misthink[obs3], misconjecture[obs3], misconceive &c. (error) 495; fly in the face of facts; miscalculate, misreckon, miscompute. overestimate &c.
499; credulous &c 486; warped. misjudged &c. v.
Phr. nothing like leather; the wish the father to the thought; wishful thinking; unshakable conviction; "my mind is made up - don't bother me with the facts". #482.
Overestimation.-N. overestimation &c. v.; exaggeration &c. 549; vanity &c.
880; optimism, pessimism, pessimist. much cry and little wool, much ado about nothing; storm in a teacup, tempest in a teacup; fine talking.
V. overestimate, overrate, overvalue, overprize, overweigh, overreckon[obs3], overstrain, overpraise; eulogize; estimate too highly, attach too much importance to, make mountains of molehills, catch at straws; strain, magnify; exaggerate &c.
Adj. overestimated &c. v.; oversensitive &c. (sensibility) 822.
Phr. all his geese are swans; parturiunt montes[Lat]. #483.
Underestimation.-N. underestimation; depreciation &c. (detraction) 934; pessimism, pessimist; undervaluing &c. v.; modesty &c.
V. underrate, underestimate, undervalue, underreckon[obs3]; depreciate; disparage &c. (detract) 934; not do justice to; misprize, disprize; ridicule &c.
856; slight &c. (despise) 930; neglect &c.
460; slur over. make light of, make little of, make nothing of, make no account of; belittle; minimize, think nothing of; set no store by, set at naught; shake off as dewdrops from the lion's mane.
Adj. depreciating, depreciated &c. v.; unvalued, unprized[obs3]. #484.
Belief.-N. belief; credence; credit; assurance; faith, trust, troth, confidence, presumption, sanguine expectation &c. (hope) 858; dependence on, reliance on. persuasion, conviction, convincement[obs3], plerophory[obs3], self- conviction; certainty &c.
474; opinion, mind, view; conception, thinking; impression &c. (idea) 453; surmise &c.
488; propaganda &c. (teaching) 537. credibility &c. (probability) 472.
Adj. believing &c. v.; certain, sure, assured, positive, cocksure, satisfied, confident, unhesitating, convinced, secure. under the impression; impressed with, imbued with, penetrated with. confiding, suspectless[obs3]; unsuspecting, unsuspicious; void of suspicion; credulous &c.
486; wedded to. believed &c. v.; accredited, putative; unsuspected. worthy of, deserving of, commanding belief; credible, reliable, trustworthy, to be depended on; satisfactory; probably &c.
472; fiducial[obs3], fiduciary; persuasive, impressive. relating to belief, doctrinal.
Phr. experto crede [Lat][Vergil]; fata viam invenient [Lat]; Justitiae soror incorrupta Fides[Lat]; "live to explain thy doctrine by thy life" [Prior]; "stands not within the prospect of belief" [Macbeth]; tarde quae credita laedunt credimus [Lat][Ovid]; vide et crede [Lat]. #485.
Doubt.-N. unbelief, disbelief, misbelief; discredit, miscreance[obs3]; infidelity &c. (irreligion) 989[obs3]; dissent &c. 489; change of opinion &c.
607. doubt &c. (uncertainty) 475; skepticism, scepticism, misgiving, demure; distrust, mistrust, cynicism; misdoubt[obs3], suspicion, jealousy, scruple, qualm; onus probandi[Lat]. incredibility, incredibleness; incredulity. [person who doubts] doubter, skeptic, cynic.; unbeliever &c.
V. disbelieve, discredit; not believe &c.
536; cavil; cause a doubt, raise a doubt, start a doubt, suggest a doubt, awake a doubt, make suspicion; ergotize[obs3]. startle, stagger; shake one's faith, shake one's belief, stagger one's faith, stagger one's belief.
471. fallible &c. (uncertain) 475; undemonstrable; controvertible &c. (untrue) 495.
Adv. cum grano salis[Latin: with a grain of salt]; with grains of allowance.
Credulity.-N. credulity, credulousness &c. adj.; cullibility|, gullibility; gross credulity, infatuation; self delusion, self deception; superstition; one's blind side; bigotry &c. (obstinacy) 606; hyperorthodoxy &c.
481. credulous person &c (dupe) 547.
Adj. credulous, gullible; easily deceived &c.
545; simple, green, soft, childish, silly, stupid; easily convinced; over-credulous, over confident, over trustful; infatuated, superstitious; confiding &c. (believing) 484.
Phr. the wish the father to the thought; credo quia impossibile [Lat][Tertullian]; all is not gold that glitters; no es oro todo lo que reluce[Sp]; omne ignotum pro magnifico[Lat]. #487.
See Trench, On the Study of Words, p.
Assent.-N. assent, assentment[obs3]; acquiescence, admission; nod; accord, concord, concordance; agreement &c.
V. assent; give assent, yield assent, nod assent; acquiesce; agree &c.
760. arrive at an understanding, come to an understanding, come to terms, come to an agreement. confirm, affirm; ratify, approve, indorse, countersign; corroborate &c.
Adj. assenting &c. v; of one accord, of one mind; of the same mind, at one with, agreed, acquiescent, content; willing &c.
602. uncontradicted, unchallenged, unquestioned, uncontroverted. carried, agreed, nem[abbr]. con. &c. adv[abbr: nemine contradicente].; unanimous; agreed on all hands, carried by acclamation. affirmative &c. 535.
602. affirmatively, in the affirmative.
Phr. avec plaisir[Fr]; chi tace accousente[It][obs3]; "the public mind is the creation of the Master-Writers" [Disraeli]; you bet your sweet ass it is; what are we waiting for? whenever you're ready; anytime you're ready. #489.
Dissent.-N. dissent; discordance &c. (disagreement) 24; # difference diversity of opinion. nonconformity &c. (heterodoxy) 984; protestantism, recusancy, schism; disaffection; secession &c.
607. dissension &c (discord) 713; discontent &c.
832; cavilling. protest; contradiction &c (denial) 536; noncompliance &c (rejection) 764. dissentient, dissenter; non-juror, non-content, nonconformist; sectary, separatist, recusant, schismatic, protestant, heretic. refusal &c.
764. V. dissent, demur; call in question &c. (doubt) 485; differ in opinion, disagree; say no &c.
607. Adj. dissenting &c. v; negative &c.
536; dissident, dissentient; unconsenting &c. (refusing) 764; non-content, nonjuring[obs3]; protestant, recusant; unconvinced, unconverted. unavowed, unacknowledged; out of the question. discontented &c.
603; extorted. sectarian, denominational, schismatic; heterodox; intolerant. Adv. no &c.
536; at variance, at issue with; under protest. Int.
Knowledge.-N. knowledge; cognizance, cognition, cognoscence|; acquaintance, experience, ken, privity[obs3], insight, familiarity; comprehension, apprehension; recognition; appreciation &c. (judgment) 480; intuition; conscience, consciousness; perception, precognition; acroamatics|!. light, enlightenment; glimpse, inkling; glimmer, glimmering; dawn; scent, suspicion; impression &c. (idea) 453; discovery &c.
698. see one's way; discover &c.
480a. come to one's knowledge &c. (information) 527.
V. be ignorant &c. adj.; not know &c.
Adv. ignorantly &c. adj.; unawares; for anything, for aught one knows; not that one knows.
God knows, Heaven knows, the Lord knows, who knows, nobody knows.
Phr. "ignorance never settles a question" [Disraeli]; quantum animis erroris inest[Lat]! [Ovid]; "small Latin and less Greek" [B.
Jonson]; "that unlettered small-knowing soul" [Love's Labor's Lost]; "there is no darkness but ignorance" [Twelfth NIght]. #492.
490; brought up at the feet of Gamaliel.
Phr. "he was a scholar and a ripe and good one" [Henry VIII]; "the manifold linguist" [All's Well That Ends Well]. #493.
501; pedant &c 492. Adj. bookless[obs3], shallow; ignorant &c.
V. be true &c. adj., be the case; sand the test; have the true ring; hold good, hold true, hold water. render true, prove true &c. adj.; substantiate &c. (evidence) 467. get at the truth &c. (discover) 480a.
Adj. real, actual &c. (existing) 1; veritable, true; right, correct; certain &c.
474; substantially true, categorically true, definitively true &c; true to the letter, true as gospel; unimpeachable; veracious &c.
983a; official, ex officio. pure, natural, sound, sterling; unsophisticated, unadulterated, unvarnished, unalloyed, uncolored; in its true colors; pukka[obs3]. well-grounded, well founded; solid, substantial, tangible, valid; undistorted, undisguised; unaffected, unexaggerated, unromantic, unflattering.
Error.-N. error, fallacy; misconception, misapprehension, misstanding[obs3], misunderstanding; inexactness &c. adj.; laxity; misconstruction &c. (misinterpretation) 523; miscomputation &c. (misjudgment) 481; non sequitur &c.
V. be erroneous &c. adj. cause error; mislead, misguide; lead astray, lead into error; beguile, misinform &c. (misteach) 538[obs3]; delude; give a false impression, give a false idea; falsify, misstate; deceive &c. 545; lie &c.
732; be in the wrong box; take the wrong sow by the ear &c. (mismanage) 699; put the saddle on the wrong horse; reckon without one's host; take the shadow for the substance &c (credulity) 486; dream &c (imagine) 515.
Adj. erroneous, untrue, false, devoid of truth, fallacious, apocryphal, unreal, ungrounded, groundless; unsubstantial &c.
4; heretical &c. (heterodox) 984; unsound; illogical &c.
477. inexact, unexact inaccurate[obs3], incorrect; indefinite &c. (uncertain) 475. illusive, illusory; delusive; mock, ideal &c (imaginary) 515; spurious &c.
Phr. errare est humanum[Lat]; mentis gratissimus error [Lat][Horace]; "on the dubious waves of error tost" [Cowper]; "to err is human, to forgive divine" [Pope]; "you lie-under a mistake" [Shelley]. #496.
Absurdity.-N. absurdity, absurdness &c. adj.; imbecility &c. 499; alogy|, nonsense, utter nonsense; paradox, inconsistency; stultiloquy[obs3], stultiloquence[obs3]; nugacity[obs3]. blunder, muddle, bull; Irishism|!, Hibernicism|!; slipslop[obs3]; anticlimax, bathos; sophism &c.
V. play the fool &c.
Adj. absurd, nonsensical, preposterous, egregious, senseless, inconsistent, ridiculous, extravagant, quibbling; self-annulling, self- contradictory; macaronic[obs3], punning. foolish &c.
517; without rhyme or reason; fantastic.
Int. fiddlededee! pish! pho[obs3]! "in the name of the Prophet-figs!" [Horace Smith].
Phr. credat Judaeus Apella [Lat][Horace]; tell it to the marines. _Faculties_ #498.
Wisdom.-N. intelligence, capacity, comprehension, understanding; cuteness, sabe * [obs3][U.S.], savvy * [U.S.]; intellect &c.
450; nous[Fr], parts, sagacity, mother wit, wit, esprit, gumption, quick parts, grasp of intellect; acuteness &c adj.; acumen, subtlety, penetration, perspicacy[obs3], perspicacity; discernment, due sense of, good judgment; discrimination &c 465; cunning &c.
459; tact &c 698; foresight &c 510; sobriety, self-possession, aplomb, ballast. a bright thought, not a bad idea. Solomon-like wisdom.
465; know what's what &c.
459; provident &c (prepared) 673; in advance of one' age; wise as a serpent, wise as Solomon, wise as Solon. [Applied to actions] wise, sensible, reasonable, judicious; well- thought-out, well-planned, well-judged, well-advised; prudent, politic; expedient &c.
Folly-N. want of -intelligence &c.
498, want of - intellect &c.
477; giddiness &c (inattention) 458; eccentricity &c.
503; extravagance &c (absurdity) 497; rashness &c.
863. act of folly &c.
699. b. be - imbecile &c adj.; have no -brains, have no sense &c.
498. trifle, drivel, radoter[obs3], dote; ramble &c (madness) 503; play the fool, play the monkey, monkey around, fool around; take leave of one's senses (insanity) 503; not see an inch beyond one's nose; stultify oneself &c.
699; talk nonsense &c. 497.
Adj. unintelligent[Applied to persons], unintellectual, unreasoning; mindless, witless, reasoningless[obs3], brainless; halfbaked; having no head &c.
481; bigoted &c. (obstinate) 606; giddy &c. (thoughtless) 458; rash &c.
863; eccentric &c. (crazed) 503. [Applied to actions] foolish, unwise, injudicious, improper, unreasonable, without reason, ridiculous, absurd, idiotic, silly, stupid, asinine; ill-imagined, ill-advised, ill-judged, ill-devised; mal entendu[Fr]; inconsistent, irrational, unphilosophical[obs3]; extravagant &c (nonsensical) 497; sleeveless, idle; pointless, useless &c.
647; frivolous &c. (trivial) 643.
Sage-N. sage, wise man; genius; master mind, master spirit of # the age; longhead[obs3], thinker; intellectual, longhair. authority, oracle, luminary, shining light, esprit fort, magnus Apollo[Lat][obs3], Solon, Solomon, Nestor, Magi, "second Daniel." man of learning &c.
994. [Ironically] wiseacre, bigwig, know-it-all; poor man's Einstein. Adj. venerable, reverenced, emeritus. Phr. barba tenus sapientes[Lat]. #501.
Phr. fortuna favet fatuis[Lat]; les fous font les festinas et les sages les mangent [Fr]; nomina stultorum parietibus harrent [Lat]; stultorum plena sunt omnia [Lat][Cicero]. #502.
Adv. like one possessed. Phr. the mind having lost its balance; the reason under a cloud; tet exaltee[French], tet montee[French]; ira furor brevis est[Latin]; omnes stultos insanire [Latin][Horace]. #504.
Madman.-N. madman, lunatic, maniac, bedlamite[obs3], candidate for Bedlam, raver[obs3], madcap, crazy; energumen[obs3]; automaniac[obs3], monomaniac, dipsomaniac, kleptomaniac; hypochondriac &c. (low spirits); crank, Tom o'Bedlam. dreamer &c.
515; rhapsodist, seer, highflier[obs3], enthusiast, fanatic, fanatico[Sp]; exalte[French]; knight errant, Don Quixote. idiot &c.
Adv. by heart, by rote; without book, memoriter[obs3]. in memory of; in memoriam; memoria in aeterna[Lat]; suggestive.
Oblivion.-N. oblivion, obliviousness, lethe; forgetfulness &c. adj.; amnesia; obliteration &c.
823 to the past. short memory, treacherous memory, poor memory, loose memory, slippery memory, failing memory; decay of memory, failure of memory, lapse of memory; waters of Lethe, waters of oblivion. amnesty, general pardon. [deliberate or unconscious forgetting] repressed memory.
552, discharge from the memory; consign to oblivion, consign to the tomb of the Capulets; think no more of &c. (turn the attention from) 458; cast behind one's back, wean one's thoughts from; let bygones be bygones &c.(forgive) 918.
Adj. forgotten &c. v.; unremembered, past recollection, bygone, out of mind; buried in oblivion, sunk in oblivion; clean forgotten; gone out of one's head, gone out of one's recollection. forgetful, oblivious, mindless, Lethean; insensible &c.
823 to the past; heedless. Phr. non mi ricordo[It]; the memory failing, the memory deserting one, being at (or in) fault. _2.
Expectation.-N. expectation, expectance, expectancy; anticipation, reckoning, calculation; foresight &c.
510. contemplation, prospection[obs3], lookout; prospect, perspective, horizon, vista; destiny &c.
152. suspense, waiting, abeyance; curiosity &c.
455; anxious expectation, ardent expectation, eager expectation, breathless expectation, sanguine expectation; torment of Tantalus. hope &c.
858; trust &c. (belief) 484; auspices &c. (prediction) 511; assurance, confidence, presumption, reliance.
V. expect; look for, look out for, look forward to; hope for; anticipate; have in prospect, have in contemplation; keep in view; contemplate, promise oneself; not wonder &c.
673; forestall &c. (be early) 132; count upon &c. (believe in) 484; think likely &c. (probability) 472. lead one to expect &c. (predict) 511; have in store for &c. (destiny) 152. prick up one's ears, hold one's breath.
Adj. expectant; expecting &c. v.; in expectation &c. n.; on the watch &c. (vigilant) 459; open-eyed, open-mouthed, in wide-eyed anticipation; agape, gaping, all agog; on tenterhooks, on tiptoe, on the tiptoe of expectation; aux aguets[obs3]; ready; curious &c.
Adv. on the watch &c. adj.; with breathless expectation &c. n.; with bated breath, with rapt anticipation; arrectis auribus[Lat].
Phr. we shall see; nous verrons[Fr]; "expectation whirls me round" [Troilus and Cressida]; the light at the end of the tunnel. #508.
Inexpectation.-N. inexpectation[obs3], non-expectation; false expectation &c. (disappointment) 509; miscalculation &c.
481. surprise, sudden burst, thunderclap, blow, shock, start; bolt out of the blue; wonder &c.
870; eye opener. unpleasant surprise, pleasant surprise.
507; be taken by surprise; start; miscalculate &c.
Africa]. pounce upon, spring a mine upon. surprise, startle, take aback, electrify, stun, stagger, take away one's breath, throw off one's guard; astonish, dumbfound &c. (strike with wonder) 870.
Int. heydey[obs3]! &c. (wonder) 870.
481; fool's paradise; much cry and little wool.
Phr. the mountain labored and brought forth a mouse; parturiunt montes[Lat]; nascitur ridiculus mus [Lat][Horace]; diis aliter visum[Lat][obs3], the bubble burst; one's countenance falling. #510.
507; be beforehand &c. (early) 132; predict &c.
511; foreknow, forejudge, forecast; presurmise[obs3]; have an eye to the future, have an eye to the main chance; respicere finem[Lat]; keep a sharp lookout &c. (vigilance) 459; forewarn &c.
Adj. foreseeing &c. v.; prescient; farseeing, farsighted; sagacious &c. (intelligent) 498; weatherwise[obs3]; provident &c. (prepared) 673; prospective &c.
507. Adv. against the time when.
Phr. cernit omnia Deus vindex[Lat]; mihi cura futuri[Lat]; run it up the flagpole and see who salutes. #511.
Prediction.-N. prediction, announcement; program, programme &c. (plan) 626[Brit]; premonition &c. (warning) 668; prognosis, prophecy, vaticination, mantology[obs3], prognostication, premonstration|; augury, auguration|; ariolation|, hariolation|; foreboding, aboding[obs3]; bodement[obs3], abodement[obs3]; omniation|, omniousness[obs3]; auspices, forecast; omen &c.
512; horoscope, nativity; sooth[obs3], soothsaying; fortune telling, crystal gazing; divination; necromancy &c.
992. [Divination by the stars] astrology[obs3], horoscopy[obs3], judicial astrology1[obs3]. [obs3] adytum[Place of prediction]. prefiguration[obs3], prefigurement; prototype, type. [person who predicts] oracle &c.
V. predict, prognosticate, prophesy, vaticinate, divine, foretell, soothsay, augurate[obs3], tell fortunes; cast a horoscope, cast a nativity; advise; forewarn &c.
Adj. predicting &cv.; predictive, prophetic; fatidic[obs3], fatidical[obs3]; vaticinal, oracular, fatiloquent[obs3], haruspical, Sibylline; weatherwise[obs3]. ominous, portentous, augurous[obs3], augurial, augural; auspicial[obs3], auspicious; prescious[obs3], monitory, extispicious[obs3], premonitory, significant of, pregnant with, bit with the fate of.
Omen.-N. omen, portent, presage, prognostic, augury, auspice; # sign &c. (indication) 550; harbinger &c. (precursor) 64; yule candle|!. bird of ill omen; signs of the times; gathering clouds; warning &c. 668. prefigurement &c.
511. Adj. ill-boding. Phr. auspicium melioris aevi[Lat][obs3]. #513.
Oracle.-N. oracle; prophet, prophesier, seer, soothsayer, augur, fortune teller, crystal gazer[obs3], witch, geomancer[obs3], aruspex[obs3]; aruspice[obs3], haruspice[obs3]; haruspex; astrologer, star gazer[obs3]; Sibyl; Python, Pythoness[obs3]; Pythia; Pythian oracle, Delphian oracle; Monitor, Sphinx, Tiresias, Cassandra[obs3], Sibylline leaves; Zadkiel, Old Moore; sorcerer &c.
994; interpreter &c. 524. [person who predicts by non-mystical (natural) means] predictor, prognosticator, forecaster; weather forecaster, weatherman.
Phr. a prophet is without honor in his own country; "you don't need a weatherman to know which way the wind blows" [Bob Dylan]. SECTION VII.
V. suppose, conjecture, surmise, suspect, guess, divine; theorize; presume, presurmise[obs3], presuppose; assume, fancy, wis[obs3], take it; give a guess, speculate, believe, dare say, take it into one's head, take for granted; imagine &c.
Adj. supposing &c. v.; given, mooted, postulatory[obs3]; assumed &c. v.; supposititious, suppositive[obs3], suppositious; gratuitous, speculative, conjectural, hypothetical, theoretical, academic, supposable, presumptive, putative; suppositional. suggestive, allusive.
Adv. if, if so be; an; on the supposition &c. n.;ex hypothesi[Lat]; in the case, in the event of; quasi, as if, provided; perhaps &c. (by possibility) 470; for aught one knows. #514a.
Analogy-N. analogy, association, association of ideas. # metaphor &c.
521. analogical thinking; free association; train of thought. Adj. analogical. #515.
Adj. imagined &c. v.; ben trovato[It]; air drawn, airbuilt[obs3]. imagining &cv. v, imaginative; original, inventive, creative, fertile. romantic, high flown, flighty, extravagant, fanatic, enthusiastic, unrealistic, Utopian, Quixotic. ideal, unreal; in the clouds, in nubibus[Lat]; unsubsantial[obs3] &c.
4; illusory &c. (fallacious) 495. fabulous, legendary; mythical, mythic, mythological; chimerical; imaginary, visionary; notional; fancy, fanciful, fantastic, fantastical[obs3]; whimsical; fairy, fairy-like; gestic[obs3].
NATURE OF IDEAS COMMUNICATED #516. [Idea to be conveyed.] Meaning. [Thing signified.]-N. meaning; signification, significance; sense, expression; import, purport; force; drift, tenor, spirit, bearing, coloring; scope. [important part of the meaning] substance; gist, essence, marrow, spirit &c.
5. matter; subject, subject matter; argument, text, sum and substance. general meaning, broad meaning, substantial meaning, colloquial meaning, literal meaning, plain meaning, simple meaning, natural meaning, unstrained meaning, true &c. (exact) 494 meaning, honest &c.
543 meaning, prima facie &c. (manifest) 525 meaning[Lat]; letter of the law. literally; after acceptation. synonym; implication, allusion &c. (latency) 526; suggestion &c. (information) 527; figure of speech &c.
521; acceptation &c. (interpretation) 522.
V. mean, signify, express; import, purport; convey, imply, breathe, indicate, bespeak, bear a sense; tell of, speak of; touch on; point to, allude to; drive at; involve &c. (latency) 526; declare &c. (affirm) 535. understand by &c. (interpret) 522.
Adj. meaning &c. v.; expressive, suggestive, allusive; significant, significative[obs3], significatory[obs3]; pithy; full of meaning, pregnant with meaning. declaratory &c.
518; literal; synonymous; tantamount &c. (equivalent) 27; implied &c. (latent) 526; explicit &c. 525.
497; vagueness &c. (unintelligibility) 519. [routine or reflexive statements without substantive thought, esp. legal] boilerplate.
V. mean nothing; be unmeaning &c. adj.; twaddle, quibble, scrabble.
Adj. unmeaning; meaningless, senseless; nonsensical; void of sense &c.
516. inexpressive, unexpressive; vacant; not significant &c.
516; insignificant. trashy, washy, trumpery, trivial, fiddle-faddle, twaddling, quibbling. unmeant, not expressed; tacit &c. (latent) 526. inexpressible, undefinable, incommunicable. #518.
Intelligibility.-N. intelligibility; clearness, explicitness &c. adj.; lucidity, comprehensibility, perspicuity; legibility, plain speaking &c. (manifestation) 525; precision &c.
525. Adv. in plain terms, in plain words, in plain English. Phr. he that runs may read &c. (manifest) 525. #519.
Unintelligibility.-N. unintelligibility; incomprehensibility, imperspicuity[obs3]; inconceivableness, vagueness &c. adj.; obscurity; ambiguity &c.
520; doubtful meaning; uncertainty &c.
475; perplexity &c. (confusion) 59; spinosity[obs3]; obscurum per obscurius[Lat]; mystification &c. (concealment) 528; latency &c.
526; transcendentalism. paradox, oxymoron; riddle, enigma, puzzle &c. (secret) 533; diagnus vindice nodus[Lat]; sealed book; steganography[obs3], freemasonry. pons asinorum[Lat], asses' bridge; high Dutch, Greek, Hebrew; jargon &c. (unmeaning) 517.
V. be unintelligible &c. adj.; require explanation &c.
522; have a doubtful meaning, pass comprehension. render unintelligible &c. adj.; conceal &c 528; darken &c.
421; confuse &c. (derange) 61; perplex &c. (bewilder) 475. not understand &c.
870; see through a glass darkly &c. (ignorance) 491. not understand one another; play at cross purposes &c. (misinterpret) 523.
Phr. it's Greek to me. #520. [Having a double sense] Equivocalness.-N. equivocalness &c adj.; double meaning &c.
516; ambiguity, double entente, double entendre[Fr], pun, paragram[obs3], calembour[obs3], quibble, equivoque[Fr], anagram; conundrum &c (riddle) 533; play on words, word play &c. (wit) 842; homonym, homonymy[Gram]; amphiboly[obs3], amphibology[obs3]; ambilogy[obs3], ambiloquy|.
Sphinx, Delphic oracle. equivocation &c. (duplicity) 544; white lie, mental reservation &c. (concealment) 528; paltering.
V. be -equivocal &c. adj.; have two meanings &c.
516; equivocate &c. (alter) 544.
Adj. equivocal, ambiguous, amphibolous[obs3], homonymous[obs3]; double-tongued &c. (lying) 544; enigmatical, indeterminate.
Phr. on the one hand, on the other hand. #521.
Metaphor.-N. figure of speech; facon de parler [French], way # of speaking, colloquialism. phrase &c.
566; figure, trope, metaphor, enallage[obs3], catachresis[obs3]; metonymy[Gram], synecdoche[Semant]; autonomasia|!, irony, figurativeness &c. adj.; image, imagery; metalepsis[obs3], type, anagoge[obs3], simile, personification, prosopopoeia[obs3], allegory, apologue[obs3], parable, fable; allusion, adumbration; application. exaggeration, hyperbole &c.
Interpretation.-N. interpretation, definition; explanation, explication; solution, answer; rationale; plain interpretation, simple interpretation, strict interpretation; meaning &c.
516; synonym; paraphrase, metaphrase[obs3]; convertible terms, apposition; dictionary &c.
V. interpret, explain, define, construe, translate, render; do into, turn into; transfuse the sense of. find out &c.
516 of; read; spell out, make out; decipher, unravel, disentangle; find the key of, enucleate, resolve, solve; read between the lines. account for; find the cause, tell the cause &c.
Adv. in explanation &c. n.; that is to say, id est, videlicet, to wit, namely, in other words. literally, strictly speaking; in plain, in plainer terms, in plainer words, in plainer English; more simply. #523.
Misinterpretation.-N. misinterpretation, misapprehension, misunderstanding, misacceptation|, misconstruction, misapplication; catachresis[obs3]; eisegesis[obs3]; cross-reading, cross-purposes; mistake &c.
495. misrepresentation, perversion, exaggeration &c.
549; false coloring, false construction; abuse of terms; parody, travesty; falsification &c. (lying) 544.
V. misinterpret, misapprehend, misunderstand, misconceive, misspell, mistranslate, misconstrue, misapply; mistake &c.
Adj. misinterpreted &c. v.; untranslated, untranslatable. #524.
Interpreter.-N. interpreter; expositor, expounder, exponent, # explainer; demonstrator. scholiast, commentator, annotator; metaphrast[obs3], paraphrast[obs3]; glossarist[obs3], prolocutor. spokesman, speaker, mouthpiece. dragoman, courier, valet de place, cicerone, showman; oneirocritic[obs3]; (Edipus; oracle &c.
526} manifestation; plainness &c. adj.; plain speaking; expression; showing &c. v.; exposition, demonstration; exhibition, production; display, show; showing off; premonstration|. exhibit[Thing shown]. indication &c. (calling attention to) 457. publicity &c.
529; openness &c. (honesty) 543, (artlessness) 703; panchement. evidence &c.
529; capable of being shown, producible; inconcealable[obs3], unconcealable; no secret.
525} latency, inexpression[obs3]; hidden meaning, occult meaning; occultness, mystery, cabala[obs3], anagoge[obs3]; silence &c (taciturnity) 585; concealment &c.
528; more than meets the eye, more than meets the ear; Delphic oracle; le dessous des cartes[Fr], undercurrent. implication, logical implication; logical consequence; entailment. allusion, insinuation; innuendo &c.
527; adumbration; "something rotten in the state of Denmark" [Hamlet]. snake in the grass &c. (pitfall) 667; secret &c.
V. be latent &c. adj.; lurk, smolder, underlie, make no sign; escape observation, escape detection, escape recognition; lie hid &c.
528. laugh in one's sleeve; keep back &c. (conceal) 528. involve, imply, understand, allude to, infer, leave an inference; entail; whisper &c. (conceal) 528. [understand the implication] read between the lines.
Adj. latent; lurking &c.v.; secret &c.
528; occult; implied &c. v.; dormant; abeyant. unapparent, unknown, unseen &c.
441; in the background; invisible &c.
447; indiscoverable[obs3], dark; impenetrable &c. (unintelligible) 519; unspied[obs3], unsuspected. unsaid, unwritten, unpublished, unbreathed[obs3], untalked of[obs3], untold &c.
527, unsung, unexposed, unproclaimed[obs3], undisclosed &c.
529, unexpressed; not expressed, tacit. undeveloped, solved, unexplained, untraced[obs3], undiscovered &c.
480a, untracked, unexplored, uninvented[obs3]. indirect, crooked, inferential; by inference, by implication; implicit; constructive; allusive, covert, muffled; steganographic[obs3]; understood, underhand, underground; delitescent[obs3], concealed &c.
Adv. by a side wind; sub silentio[Lat]; in the background; behind the scenes, behind one's back; on the tip of one's tongue; secretly &c.
Phr. "thereby hangs a tale" [As You Like It]; tacitum vivit sub pectore vulnus [Lat][Vergil]; where there's smoke, there's fire. #527.
Information.-N. information, enlightenment, acquaintance, knowledge &c.
467. communication, intimation; notice, notification; enunciation, annunciation; announcement; communiqu; representation, round robin, presentment. case, estimate, specification, report, advice, monition; news &c.
V. tell; inform, inform of; acquaint, acquaint with; impart, impart to; make acquaintance with, apprise, advise, enlighten, awaken; transmit. let fall, mention, express, intimate, represent, communicate, make known; publish &c.
539; get scent of, get wind of, gather from; awaken to, open one's eyes to; become alive, become awake to; hear, overhear, understand. come to one's ears, come to one's knowledge; reach one's ears.
Adj. informed &c. v.; communique; reported &c. v.; published &c.
516; explicit &c. (open) 525, (clear) 518; plain spoken &c, (artless) 703. nuncupative, nuncupatory|; declaratory, expository; enunciative[obs3]; communicative, communicatory[obs3].
Phr. a little bird told me; I heard it through the grapevine. #527a.
Correction. [Correct an error of information; distinguish from # correcting a flaw or misbehavior]-N. correction. disillusionment &c.
616. V. correct, set right, set straight, put straight; undeceive[obs3]; enlighten. show one one's error; point out an error, point out a fallacy; pick out an error, pick out the fallacy; open one's eyes. pick apart an argument, confutation &c.
Concealment.-N. concealment; hiding &c. v.; occultation, mystification. seal of secrecy; screen &c.
530; masquerade; masked battery; hiding place &c.
530; cryptography, steganography[obs3]; freemasonry. stealth, stealthiness, sneakiness; obreption|; slyness &c. (cunning) 702. latitancy[obs3], latitation[obs3]; seclusion &c.
893; privacy, secrecy, secretness[obs3]; incognita. reticence; reserve; mental reserve, reservation; arriere pensee[Fr], suppression, evasion, white lie, misprision; silence &c. (taciturnity) 585; suppression of truth &c. 544; underhand dealing; closeness, secretiveness &c. adj.; mystery. latency &c.
526; snake in the grass; secret &c.
893; lurk, sneak, skulk, slink, prowl; steal into, steal out of, steal by, steal along; play at bopeep[obs3], play at hide and seek; hide in holes and corners; still hunt.
Adj. concealed &c. v.; hidden; secret, recondite, mystic, cabalistic, occult, dark; cryptic, cryptical[obs3]; private, privy, in petto, auricular, clandestine, close, inviolate; tortuous. behind a screen &c.
527; covert &c. (latent) 526; untraceable; mysterious &c. (unintelligible) 519. irrevealable[obs3], inviolable; confidential; esoteric; not to be spoken of; unmentionable. obreptitious[obs3], furtive, stealthy, feline; skulking &c. v.; surreptitious, underhand, hole and corner; sly &c. (cunning).
702; secretive, evasive; reserved, reticent, uncommunicative, buttoned up; close, close as wax; taciturn &c.
Disclosure-N. disclosure; retection|; unveiling &c.v.; deterration[obs3], revealment, revelation; exposition, exposure; expose; whole truth; telltale &c (news) 532. acknowledgment, avowal; confession, confessional; shrift. bursting of a bubble; denouement. [person who discloses a secret] tattletale, snitch, fink, stool pigeon, canary.
Adj. disclosed &c.v.; open, public &c.
Phr. the murder is out; a light breaks in upon one; the scales fall from one's eyes; the eyes are opened. #530.
Adj. published &c.v.; current &c. (news) 532; in circulation, public; notorious; flagrant, arrant; open &c 525; trumpet-tongued; encyclical, encyclic[obs3], promulgatory[obs3]; exoteric.
Adv. publicly &c. adj.; in open court, with open doors.
Phr. notice is hereby given; this is to give, these are to give notice; nomina stultorum parietibus haerent[Lat]; semel emissum volat irrevocabile verbum[Lat].. #532.
V. transpire &c (be disclosed) 529; rumor &c (publish) 531.
Adj. many-tongued; rumored; publicly rumored, currently rumored, currently reported; rife, current, floating, afloat, going about, in circulation, in every one's mouth, all over the town. in progress; live; on the spot; in person.
Adv. as the story goes, as the story runs; as they say, it is said; by telegraph, by wireless. Phr. "airy tongues that syllable men's names" [Milton]; what's up?; what's the latest?; what's new?; what's the latest poop?. #533.
519; terra incognita &c. (ignorance) 491. Adj. secret &c. (concealed) 528; involved &c, 248; labyrinthine, labyrinthian[obs3], mazy. confidential; top secret. #534.
532] reporter, gentleman of the press, representative of the press; penny-a-liner; special correspondent, own correspondent; spy, scout; informer &c.
Adj. asserting &c.v.; declaratory, predicatory[obs3], pronunciative[obs3], affirmative, soi-disant[Fr]; positive; certain &c 474; express, explicit &c (patent) 525; absolute, emphatic, flat, broad, round, pointed, marked, distinct, decided, confident, trenchant, dogmatic, definitive, formal, solemn, categorical, peremptory; unretracted[obs3]; predicable.
Phr. quoth he; dixi[Lat]. #536.
Negation.-N. negation, abnegation; denial; disavowal, disclaimer; abjuration; contradiction, contravention; recusation[obs3][Law], protest; recusancy &c (dissent) 489; flat contradiction, emphatic contradiction, emphatic denial, dementi[Lat]. qualification &c 469; repudiation &c 610; retraction &c 607; confutation &c 479; refusal &c 764; prohibition &c 761.
Adj. denying &c.v.; denied &c.v.; contradictory; negative, negatory; recusant &c (dissenting) 489; at issue upon.
Phr. there never was a greater mistake; I know better; non haec in faedera[Lat]; a thousand times no. #537.
Teaching.-N. teaching &c.v.; instruction; edification; education; tuition; tutorage, tutelage; direction, guidance; opsimathy[obs3]. qualification, preparation; training, schooling &c. v.; discipline; excitation. drill, practice; book exercise. persuasion, proselytism, propagandism[obs3], propaganda; indoctrination, inculcation, inoculation; advise &c.
Adj. teaching &c.v; taught &c.v.; educational; scholastic, academic, doctrinal; disciplinal[obs3]; instructive, instructional, didactic; propaedeutic[obs3], propaedeutical[obs3].
Phr. the schoolmaster abroad; a bovi majori disscit arare minor[Lat]; adeo in teneris consuecere multum est [Lat][Vergil]; docendo discimus[Lat]; quaenocent docent[Lat]; qui docet discit[Latin]; "sermons in stones and good in everything" [As You Like It]. #538.
Adj. studious; scholastic, scholarly; teachable; docile &c (willing) 602; apt &c 698, industrious &c 682.
Adv. at one's books; in statu pupillari &c (learner) 541[Lat]. Phr. "a lumber-house of books in every head" [Pope]; ancora imparo[Lat][obs3]! "hold high converse with the mighty dead" [Thomson]; "lash'd into Latin by the tingling rod" [Gay]. #540.
542. V. learn; practise. Adj. in statu pupillari[Lat], in leading strings. Phr. practise makes perfect. #542.
School Board Council of Education; Board of Education; Board of Studies, Prefect of Studies; Textbook Committee; propaganda.
Adj. scholastic, academic, collegiate; educational.
Veracity.-N. veracity; truthfulness, frankness, &c. adj.; truth, sincerity, candor, unreserve|!, honesty, fidelity; plain dealing, bona fides[Lat]; love of truth; probity &c.
939; ingenuousness &c (artlessness) 703. the truth the whole truth and nothing but the truth; honest truth, sober truth &c (fact) 494; unvarnished tale; light of truth.
Falsehood.-N. falsehood, falseness; falsity, falsification; deception &c.
545; untruth &c 546; guile; lying &c.
Phr. blandae mendacia lingua[Lat]; falsus in uno falsus in omnibus[Lat]; "I give him joy that's awkward at a lie" [Young]; la mentira tiene las piernas cortas [Sp]; "O what a goodly outside falsehood hath" [Merchant of Venice]. #545.
V. have a false meaning.
Adj. untrue, false, phony, trumped up; void of foundation, without- foundation; fictive, far from the truth, false as dicer's oaths; unfounded, ben trovato[It], invented, fabulous, fabricated, forged; fictitious, factitious, supposititious, surreptitious; elusory[obs3], illusory; ironical; soi-disant &c (misnamed) 565[Fr].
Phr. se non e vero e ben trovato[It]; "where none is meant that meets the ear"[Milton]. #547.
Dupe.-N. dupe, gull, gudgeon, gobemouche[obs3], cull*, cully[obs3], victim, pigeon, April fool[obs3]; jay*, sucker*; laughingstock &c 857; Cyclops, simple Simon, flat; greenhorn; fool &c 501; puppet, cat's paw.
V. be deceived &c 545, be the dupe of; fall into a trap; swallow the bait, nibble at the bait; bite, catch a Tartar.
Adj. credulous &c 486; mistaken &c. (error) 495. #548.
Phr. "saint abroad and a devil at home" [Bunyan]. #549.
Adj. exaggerated &c. v.; overwrought; bombastic &c. (grandiloquent) 577; hyperbolical[obs3], on stilts; fabulous, extravagant, preposterous, egregious, outre[Fr], highflying[obs3].
Phr. excitabat enim fluctus in simpulo [Lat][Cicero]. SECTION III.
554; epigraph, motto, posy. gesture, gesticulation; pantomime; wink, glance, leer; nod, shrug, beck; touch, nudge; dactylology[obs3], dactylonomy[obs3]; freemasonry, telegraphy, chirology[Med], byplay, dumb show; cue; hint &c.
511. trace[Of the past], record &c.
669. scepter &c. 747[Of authority]. trophy &c.
Adj. indicating &c. v., indicative, indicatory; denotative, connotative; diacritical, representative, typical, symbolic, pantomimic, pathognomonic[obs3], symptomatic, characteristic, demonstrative, diagnostic, exponential, emblematic, armorial; individual &c. (special) 79. known by, recognizable by; indicated &c. v.; pointed, marked. [Capable of being denoted] denotable[obs3]; indelible.
Adv. in token of; symbolically &c. adj.; in dumb show.
Phr. ecce signum[Lat]; ex ungue leonem[Lat], ex pede Herculem[Lat]; vide ut supra; vultus ariete fortior[Lat][obs3]. #551.
86; compte rendu[Fr]; Acts of, Transactions of, Proceedings of; Hansard's Debates; chronicle,annals, legend; history, biography &c. 594; Congressional Records. registration; registry; enrollment, inrollment[obs3]; tabulation; entry, booking; signature &c (identification) 550; recorder &c.
553; journalism. [analog recording media] recording, tape recording, videotape. [digital recording media] compact disk; floppy disk, diskette; hard disk, Winchester disk; read-only memory, ROM; write once read mostly memory, WORM.
550; "leave not a rack behind." Adj. obliterated &c. v.; out of print; printless[obs3]; leaving no trace; intestate; unrecorded, unregistered, unwritten. Int. dele; out with it! Phr. delenda est Carthago [Lat][Cato]. #553.
Recorder.-N. recorder, notary, clerk; registrar, registrary[obs3], register; prothonotary[Law]; amanuensis, secretary, scribe, babu[obs3], remembrancer[obs3], bookkeeper, custos rotulorum[Lat], Master of the Rolls. annalist; historian, historiographer; chronicler, journalist; biographer &c. (narrator) 594; antiquary &c. (antiquity) 122; memorialist[obs3]; interviewer. #554.
Representation.-N. representation, representment[obs3]; imitation &c.
19; illustration, delineation, depictment[obs3]; imagery, portraiture, iconography; design, designing; art, fine arts; painting &c.
558; photography, cinematography; radiography, autoradiography[Bioch], fluorography[Chem], sciagraphy[obs3]. personation, personification; impersonation; drama &c.
599. picture, photo, photograph, daguerreotype, snapshot; X-ray photo; movie film, movie; tracing, scan, TV image, video image, image file, graphics, computer graphics, televideo, closed-circuit TV. copy &c.
V. represent, delineate; depict, depicture[obs3]; portray; take a likeness, catch a likeness &c. n.; hit off, photograph, daguerreotype; snapshot; figure, shadow forth, shadow out; adumbrate; body forth; describe &c.
594; trace, copy; mold. dress up; illustrate, symbolize. paint &c.
558. personate, personify; impersonate; assume a character; pose as; act; play &c. (drama) 599; mimic &c. (imitate) 19; hold the mirror up to nature.
Adj. represent, representing &c. v., representative; *illustrative; represented &c. v.; imitative, figurative; iconic. like &c.
17; graphic &c. (descriptive) 594; cinquecento quattrocento[Fr][obs3], trecento[obs3]. #555.
Misrepresentation.-N. misrepresentation, distortion, caricatura|, exaggeration; daubing &c. v.; bad likeness, daub, sign painting; scratch, caricature; anamorphosis[obs3]; burlesque, falsification, misstatement; parody, lampoon, take-off, travesty.
V. misrepresent, distort, overdraw, exaggerate, caricature, daub; burlesque, parody, travesty.
Adj. misrepresented &c. v. #556.
847. monochrome, polychrome; grisaille[Fr]. pallet, palette; easel; brush, pencil, stump; black lead, charcoal, crayons, chalk, pastel; paint &c. (coloring matter) 428; watercolor, body color, oil color; oils, oil paint; varnish &c.
V. paint, design, limn draw, sketch, pencil, scratch, shade, stipple, hatch, dash off, chalk out, square up; color, dead color, wash, varnish; draw in pencil &c. n.; paint in oils &c. n.; stencil; depict &c. (represent) 554.
Adj. painted &c. v.; pictorial, graphic, picturesque. pencil, oil &c. n.
Adv. in pencil &c. n.
Phr. fecit[Lat], delineavit[Lat]; mutum est pictura poema[Lat]. #557.
591; three-color process. illustration, illumination; half tone; photogravure; vignette, initial letter, cul de lampe[Fr], tailpiece. [person who inscribes on stone] lapidary, lapidarian.
V. engrave, grave, stipple, scrape, etch; bite, bite in; lithograph &c., n.; print.
Adj. insculptured[obs3]; engraved &c. v.. [of inscriptions on stone] lapidary.
Phr. photo safari; "with gun and camera" 2.
582; tongue, lingo, vernacular; mother tongue, vulgar tongue, native tongue; household words; King's English, Queen's English; dialect &c.
V. express by words &c. 566.
Adj. lingual, linguistic; dialectic; vernacular, current; bilingual; diglot[obs3], hexaglot[obs3], polyglot; literary.
Phr. "syllables govern the world" [Selden]. #561.
Adj. literal; alphabetical, abecedarian; syllabic; majuscular[obs3], minuscular[obs3]; uncial &c. (writing) 590. #562.
Word.-N. word, term, vocable; name &c.
522; technical term; cant &c.
Adj. named &c. v.; hight[obs3], ycleped, known as; what one may well, call fairly, call properly, call fitly. nuncupatory[obs3], nuncupative; cognominal[obs3], titular, nominal, orismological[obs3].
Phr. "beggar'd all description" [Antony and Cleopatra]. #565.
Phrase.-N. phrase, expression, set phrase; sentence, paragraph; figure of speech &c.
521; idiom, idiotism[obs3]; turn of expression; style. paraphrase &c. (synonym) 522; periphrase &c. (circumlocution) 573 motto &c. (proverb) 496[obs3]. phraseology &c. 569.
V. express, phrase; word, word it; give words to, give expression to; voice; arrange in words, clothe in words, put into words, express by words; couch in terms; find words to express; speak by the card; call, denominate, designate, dub.
Adj. expressed &c. v.; idiomatic. Adv. in round terms, in set terms, in good set terms, set terms; in set phrases. #567.
Grammar.-N. grammar, accidence, syntax, praxis, punctuation; parts of speech; jussive[obs3]; syllabication; inflection, case, declension, conjugation; us et norma loquendi[Lat]; Lindley Murray &c. (schoolbook) 542; correct style, philology &c. (language) 560.
V. parse, punctuate, syllabicate[obs3]. #568.
Solecism.-N. solecism; bad grammar, false grammar, faulty grammar; slip of the pen, slip of the tongue; lapsus linguae[Lat]; slipslop[obs3]; bull; barbarism, impropriety.
V. use bad grammar, faulty grammar; solecize[obs3], commit a solecism; murder the King's English, murder the Queen's English, break Priscian's head.
Adj. ungrammatical; incorrect, inaccurate; faulty; improper, incongruous; solecistic, solecistical[obs3]. #569.
Style.-N. style, diction, phraseology, wording; manner, strain; composition; mode of expression, choice of words; mode of speech, literary power, ready pen, pen of a ready writer; command of language &c. (eloquence) 582; authorship; la morgue litteraire[Fr]..
V. express by words &c.
Phr. le style c'est de l'homme [Fr][Buffon]; "style is the dress of thoughts" [Chesterfield]. _Various Qualities of Style_ #570.
Perspicuity.-N. perspicuity, perspicuousness &c. (intelligibility) 518; plain speaking &c. (manifestation) 525; definiteness, definition; exactness &c.
494; explicitness, lucidness. Adj. lucid &c. (intelligible) 518; explicit &c. (manifest) 525; exact &c.
Obscurity.-N. obscurity &c. (unintelligibility) 519; involution; hard words; ambiguity &c.
495; what d'ye call 'em &c. (neologism) 563[obs3]; darkness of meaning.
Adj. obscure &c. n.; crabbed, involved, confused. #572.
Conciseness.-N. conciseness &c. adj.; brevity, "the soul of wit", laconism[obs3]; Tacitus; ellipsis; syncope; abridgment &c. (shortening) 201; compression &c.
596; monostich[obs3]; brunch word, portmanteau word.
V. be concise &c. adj.; condense &c.
596; come to the point. Adj. concise, brief, short, terse,close; to the point, exact; neat, compact; compressed, condensed, pointed; laconic, curt, pithy, trenchant, summary; pregnant; compendious &c. (compendium) 596; succinct; elliptical, epigrammatic, quaint, crisp; sententious.
Phr. brevis esse laboro obscurus fio [Lat][Horace]. #573.
575. Adv. in plain terms, in plain words, in plain English, in plain common parlance; point-blank. #577.
Ornament.-N. ornament; floridness c[obs3]. adj. turgidity, turgescence[obs3]; altiloquence &c. adj[obs3].; declamation, teratology|!; well-rounded periods; elegance &c.
V. ornament, overlay with ornament, overcharge; smell of the lamp.
521; artificial &c. (inelegant) 579.
Elegance.-N. elegance, purity, grace, ease; gracefulness, # readiness &c. adj.; concinnity[obs3], euphony, numerosity[obs3]; Atticism[obs3], classicalism[obs3], classicism. well rounded periods, well turned periods, flowing periods; the right word in the right place; antithesis &c.
Inelegance.-N. inelegance; stiffness &c. adj.; "unlettered Muse" [Gray]; barbarism; slang &c.
568; mannerism &c. (affectation) 855; euphuism[obs3]; fustian &c.
577; cacophony; words that break the teeth, words that dislocate the jaw; marinism[obs3].
V. be inelegant &c. adj.
Adj. inelegant, graceless, ungraceful; harsh, abrupt; dry, stiff, cramped, formal, guinde[Fr]; forced, labored; artificial, mannered, ponderous; awkward, uncourtly[obs3], unpolished; turgid &c.
577; affected, euphuistic[obs3]; barbarous, uncouth, grotesque, rude, crude, halting; offensive to ears polite. _2.
V. utter, breathe; give utterance, give tongue; cry &c. (shout) 411; ejaculate, rap out; vocalize, prolate|, articulate, enunciate, pronounce, accentuate, aspirate, deliver, mouth; whisper in the ear.
Adj. vocal, phonetic, oral; ejaculatory, articulate, distinct, stertorous; euphonious &c. (melodious) 413.
Phr. "how sweetly sounds the voice of a good woman" [Massinger]; "the organ of the soul" [Longfellow]; "thy voice is a celestial melody" [Longfellow]. #581.
Aphony.-N. aphony[obs3], aphonia[obs3]; dumbness &c. adj.; obmutescence[obs3]; absence of voice, want of voice; dysphony[obs3]; cacoepy[obs3]; silence &c. (taciturnity) 585; raucity[obs3]; harsh voice &c.
414; falsetto, "childish treble mute"; dummy.
585; speak low, speak softly; whisper &c. (faintness) 405. silence; render mute, render silent; muzzle, muffle, suppress, smother, gag, strike dumb, dumfounder; drown the voice, put to silence, stop one's mouth, cut one short. stick in the throat.
Adv. with bated breath, with the finger on the lips; sotto voce[Lat]; in a low tone, in a cracked voice, in a broken voice.
Phr. vox faucibus haesit [Lat][Vergil]. #582.
Speech.-N. speech, faculty of speech; locution, talk, parlance, verbal intercourse, prolation[obs3], oral communication, word of mouth, parole, palaver, prattle; effusion. oration, recitation, delivery, say, speech, lecture, harangue, sermon, tirade, formal speech, peroration; speechifying; soliloquy &c.
589; allocution &c. 586; conversation &c.
589; tell &c. (inform) 527; speak to &c.
Adv. orally &c. adj.; by word of mouth, viva voce, from the lips of.
563; slip of the tongue, lapsus linouae [Lat].
V. stammer, stutter, hesitate, falter, hammer; balbutiate|, balbucinate|, haw, hum and haw, be unable to put two words together. mumble, mutter; maud|, mauder[obs3]; whisper &c.
405; mince, lisp; jabber, gibber; sputter, splutter; muffle, mump[obs3]; drawl, mouth; croak; speak thick, speak through the nose; snuffle, clip one's words; murder the language, murder the King's English, murder the Queen's English; mispronounce, missay[obs3].
Adj. stammering &c. v.; inarticulate, guttural, nasal; tremulous; affected.
Adv. sotto voce &c. (faintly) 405[Lat]. #584.
S.]; gossip &c. (converse) 588; magpie, jay, parrot, poll, Babel; moulin a paroles[Fr]..
497; be hoarse with talking.
Adj. loquacious, talkative, garrulous, linguacious|, multiloquous[obs3]; largiloquent|; chattering &c. v.; chatty &c. (sociable) 892; declamatory &c.
582; open-mouthed. fluent, voluble, glib, flippant; long tongued, long winded &c. (diffuse) 573.
Adv. trippingly on the tongue; glibly &c. adj.; off the reel.
Phr. the tongue running fast, the tongue running loose, the tongue running on wheels; all talk and no cider; "foul whisperings are abroad" [Macbeth]; "what a spendthrift is he of his tongue!" [Tempest]. #585.
Taciturnity.-N. silence, muteness, obmutescence[obs3]; taciturnity, pauciloquy[obs3], costiveness|, curtness; reserve, reticence &c. (concealment) 528. man of few words.
V. be silent &c. adj.; keep silence, keep mum; hold one's tongue, hold one's peace, hold one's jaw; not speak. &c.
528; not have a word to say; hush up, hush, lay the finger on the lips, place the finger on the lips; render mute &c.
581. stick in one's throat.
Adj. silent, mute, mum; silent as a post, silent as a stone, silent as the grave &c. (still) 403; dumb &c.
581; unconversable[obs3]. taciturn, sparing of words; closetongued; costive|, inconversable|, curt; reserved; reticent &c. (concealing) 528.
Int. shush! tush! silence! mum! hush! chut[obs3]! hist! tut! chup[obs3]! mum's the word; keep your mouth shut![vulgar].
Phr. cave quid dicis quando et cui[Lat]; volto sciolto i pensieri stretti[It]. #586.
Allocution.-N. allocution, alloquy|, address; speech &c.
582; # apostrophe, interpellation, appeal, invocation, salutation; word in the ear. [Feigned dialogue] dialogism[obs3]. platform &c.
Response-N. &c., see Answer 462. # # # #588.
S.]. hall of audience, durbar[obs3]. palaver, debate, logomachy[obs3], war of words. gossip, tattler; Paul Pry; tabby; chatterer &c. (loquacity) 584; interlocutor &c. (spokesman) 582; conversationist[obs3], dialogist[obs3]. "the feast of reason and the flow of soul" [Pope]; mollia tempora fandi[Lat][obs3].
Adj. conversing &c. v.; interlocutory; conversational, conversable[obs3]; discursive, discoursive[obs3]; chatty &c. (sociable) 892; colloquial.
Phr. "with thee conversing I forget all time" [Paradise Lost]. #589.
Soliloquy.-N. soliloquy, monologue, apostrophe; # monology[obs3]. V.
Soliloquize; say to oneself, talk to oneself; say aside, think aloud, apostrophize. Adj. soliloquizing &c. v. Adv. aside. _3.
Writing.-N. writing &c. v.; chirography, stelography[obs3], cerography[obs3]; penmanship, craftmanship[obs3]; quill driving; typewriting. writing, manuscript, MS., literae scriptae[Lat]; these presents. stroke of the pen, dash of the pen; coupe de plume; line; headline; pen and ink. letter &c.
Adj. writing &c. v.; written &c. v.; in writing, in black and white; under one's hand. uncial, Runic, cuneiform, hieroglyphical[obs3].
Adv. currente calamo[Sp]; pen in hand.
Printing.-N. printing; block printing, type- printing; plate printing &c.
V. print; compose; put to press, go to press; pass through the press, see through the press; publish &c.
531; bring out; appear in print, rush into print; distribute, makeup, mortise, offset, overrun, rout.
Adj. printed &c. v.; in type; typographical &c. n.; solid in galleys. #592.
Correspondence.-N. correspondence, letter, epistle, note, billet, post card, missive, circular, favor, billet-doux; chit, chitty[obs3], letter card, picture post card; postal [U.S.], card; despatch; dispatch; bulletin, these presents; rescript, rescription[obs3]; post &c. (messenger) 534.
V. correspond with; write to, send a letter to; keep up a correspondence.
597. bookseller, publisher; bibliopole[obs3], bibliopolist[obs3]; librarian; bookstore, bookshop, bookseller's shop. knowledge of books, bibliography; book learning &c. (knowledge) 490. Phr. "among the giant fossils of my past" [E.
Adj. descriptive, graphic, narrative, epic, suggestive, well-drawn; historic; traditional, traditionary; legendary; anecdotic[obs3], storied; described &c. v.
Adj. discursive, discoursive[obs3]; disquisitionary[obs3]; expository. #596.
V. abridge, abstract, epitomize, summarize; make an abstract, prepare an abstract, draw an abstract, compile an abstract &c. n. recapitulate, review, skim, run over, sum up. abbreviate &c. (shorten) 201; condense &c. (compress) 195; compile &c. (collect) 72.
Adj. compendious, synoptic, analectic[obs3]; abrege[Fr], abridged &c. v.; variorum[obs3].
Adv. in short, in epitome, in substance, in few words.
Phr. it lies in a nutshell. #597.
V. poetize, sing, versify, make verses, rhyme, scan.
Adj. poetic, poetical; lyric, lyrical, tuneful, epic, dithyrambic &c. n.; metrical; a catalectin[obs3]; elegiac, iambic, trochaic, anapestic[obs3]; amoebaeic, Melibean, skaldic[obs3]; Ionic, Sapphic, Alcaic[obs3], Pindaric.
Phr. "a poem round and perfect as a star" [Alex.
Prose.-N. prose, prose writer. prosaicism[obs3], # prosaism[obs3], prosaist[obs3], proser[obs3]. V. prose. write prose, write in prose. Adj. prosal[obs3],prosy, prosaic; unpoetic, unpoetical[obs3]. rhymeless[obs3], unrhymed, in prose, not in verse. #599.
V. act, play, perform; put on the stage; personate &c.
Adj. dramatic; theatric, theatrical; scenic, histrionic, comic, tragic, buskined[obs3], farcical, tragicomic, melodramatic, operatic; stagy.
Adv. on the stage, on the boards; on film; before the floats, before an audience; behind the scenes.
Will.-N. will, volition, conation[obs3], velleity; liberum arbitrium[Lat]; will and pleasure, free will; freedom &c.
748; discretion; option &c. (choice) 609; voluntariness[obs3]; spontaneity, spontaneousness; originality. pleasure, wish, mind; desire; frame of mind &c. (inclination) 602; intention &c.
Adj. voluntary, volitional, willful; free &c.
748; optional; discretional, discretionary; volitient[obs3], volitive[obs3]. minded &c. (willing) 602; prepense &c. (predetermined) 611[obs3]; intended &c.
620; autocratic; unbidden &c. (bid &c.
741); spontaneous; original &c. (casual) 153; unconstrained.
609; purposely &c. (intentionally) 620; deliberately &c.
Phr. stet pro ratione voluntas[Lat]; sic volo sic jubeo[Lat]; a vostro beneplacito[It]; beneficium accipere libertatem est vendere[Lat]; Deus vult[Lat]; was man nicht kann meiden muss man willig leiden[Ger]. #601.
Necessity.-N. involuntariness; instinct, blind impulse; inborn proclivity, innate proclivity; native tendency, natural tendency; natural impulse, predetermination. necessity, necessitation; obligation; compulsion &c.
749; stern necessity, hard necessity, dire necessity, imperious necessity, inexorable necessity, iron necessity, adverse necessity; fate; what must be. destiny, destination; fatality, fate, kismet, doom, foredoom, election, predestination; preordination, foreordination; lot fortune; fatalism; inevitableness &c. adj.; spell &c.
Adj. necessary, needful &c (requisite) 630. fated; destined &c. v.; elect; spellbound, compulsory &c. (compel) 744; uncontrollable, inevitable, unavoidable, irresistible, irrevocable, inexorable; avoidless[obs3], resistless. involuntary, instinctive, automatic, blind, mechanical; unconscious, unwitting, unthinking; unintentional &c. (undesigned) 621; impulsive &c.
Adv. necessarily &c. adv.; of necessity, of course; ex necessitate rei[Lat]; needs must; perforce &c.
Nor all your piety and wit can bring it back to cancel half a line, nor all your tears wash out a word of it."[Rubayyat of Omar Khayyam]. #602.
Willingness.-N. willingness, voluntariness &c. adj[obs3].; willing mind, heart. disposition, inclination, leaning, animus; frame of mind, humor, mood, vein; bent &c. (turn of mind) 820; penchant &c. (desire) 865; aptitude &c.
698. docility, docibleness[obs3]; persuasibleness[obs3], persuasibility[obs3]; pliability &c. (softness) 324. geniality, cordiality; goodwill; alacrity, readiness, earnestness, forwardness; eagerness &c. (desire) 865. asset &c.
488; compliance &c. 762; pleasure &c. (will) 600; gratuitous service. labor of love; volunteer, volunteering.
865. see fit, think good, think proper; acquiesce &c (assent) 488; comply with &c.
762. swallow the bait, nibble at the bait; gorge the hook; have no scruple of, make no scruple of; make no bones of; jump at, catch at; meet halfway; volunteer.
765); unforced &c. (free) 748.
Unwillingness.-N. unwillingness &c. adj.; indisposition, indisposedness[obs3]; disinclination, aversation[obs3]; nolleity[obs3], nolition[obs3]; renitence[obs3], renitency; reluctance; indifference &c.
866; backwardness &c. adj.; slowness &c.
275; want of alacrity, want of readiness; indocility &c. (obstinacy) 606[obs3]. scrupulousness, scrupulosity; qualms of conscience, twinge of conscience; delicacy, demur, scruple, qualm, shrinking, recoil; hesitation &c. (irresolution) 605; fastidiousness &c.
868. averseness &c. (dislike) 867[obs3]; dissent &c.
V. be unwilling &c. adj.; nill; dislike &c.
867; grudge, begrudge; not be able to find it in one's heart to, not have the stomach to. demur, stick at, scruple, stickle; hang fire, run rusty; recoil, shrink, swerve; hesitate &c.
708; dissent &c. 489; refuse &c.
Adj. unwilling; not in the vein, loth, loath, shy of, disinclined, indisposed, averse, reluctant, not content; adverse &c. (opposed) 708; laggard, backward, remiss, slack, slow to; indifferent &c.
866; scrupulous; squeamish &c. (fastidious) 868; repugnant &c. (dislike) 867; restiff|, restive; demurring &c. v.; unconsenting &c. (refusing) 764; involuntary &c.
744; under protest; no &c.
536; not for the world, far be it from me. #604.
Resolution.-N. determination, will; iron will, unconquerable will; will of one's own, decision, resolution; backbone; clear grit, true grit, grit [U.
606; steady &c. (persevering) 604a. earnest, serious; set upon, bent upon, intent upon. steel against, proof against; in utrumque paratus[Lat].
Phr. spes sibi quisque[Lat]; celui qui veut celui-la peut[Fr]; chi non s'arrischia non guadagna[Fr][obs3]; frangas non flectes[Lat]; manu forti[Lat]; tentanda via est[Lat]. #604a.
Perseverance.-N. perseverance; continuance &c. (inaction) 143; permanence &c. (absence of change) 141; firmness &c. (stability) 150. constancy, steadiness; singleness of purpose, tenacity of purpose; persistence, plodding, patience; sedulity &c. (industry) 682; pertinacy|, pertinacity, pertinaciousness; iteration &c.
104 bottom, game, pluck, stamina, backbone, grit; indefatigability, indefatigableness; bulldog courage.
143; follow up; die in harness, die at one's post.
Adj. persevering, constant; steady, steadfast; undeviating, unwavering, unfaltering, unswerving, unflinching, unsleeping[obs3], unflagging, undrooping[obs3]; steady as time; unrelenting, unintermitting[obs3], unremitting; plodding; industrious &c.
686; pertinacious; persisting, persistent. solid, sturdy, staunch, stanch, true to oneself; unchangeable &c.
150; unconquerable &c. (strong) 159; indomitable, game to the last, indefatigable, untiring, unwearied, never tiring.
Adv. through evil report and good report, through thick and thin, through fire and water; per fas et nefas[Lat]; without fail, sink or swim, at any price, vogue la galere[Fr]..
Phr. never say die; give it the old college try; vestigia nulla retrorsum[Lat]; aut vincer aut mori[Lat]; la garde meurt et ne se rend pas[Fr]; tout vient a temps pour qui sait attendre[Fr]. #605.
Irresolution.-N. irresolution, infirmity of purpose, indecision; indetermination, undetermination|!; unsettlement; uncertainty &c.
475; demur, suspense; hesitating &c. v., hesitation, hesitancy; vacillation; changeableness &c.
149; fluctuation; alternation &c. (oscillation) 314; caprice &c.
608. fickleness, levity, legerete[Fr]; pliancy &c. (softness) 324; weakness; timidity &c.
862; half measures. waverer, ass between two bundles of hay; shuttlecock, butterfly; wimp; doughface [obs3][U.
860; "let 'I dare not' wait upon 'I would'" [Macbeth]; falter, waver vacillate &c.
607; fluctuate; pendulate[obs3]; alternate &c. (oscillate) 314; keep off and on, play fast and loose; blow hot and cold &c. (caprice) 608. shuffle, palter, blink; trim.
Adj. irresolute, infirm of purpose, double-minded, half-hearted; undecided, unresolved, undetermined; shilly-shally; fidgety, tremulous; hesitating &c. v.; off one's balance; at a loss &c. (uncertain) 475. vacillating &c. v.; unsteady &c. (changeable) 149; unsteadfast[obs3], fickle, without ballast; capricious &c.
608; volatile, frothy; light, lightsome, light-minded; giddy; fast and loose. weak, feeble-minded, frail; timid, wimpish, wimpy &c.
862; dough-faced [U.S.]; facile; pliant &c. (soft) 324; unable to say "no", easy-going, revocable, reversible.
Adv. irresolutely &c. adj.; irresolved[obs3], irresolvedly[obs3]; in faltering accents; off and on; from pillar to post; seesaw &c.
Int. "how happy could I be with either!" [Gay]. #606.
Obstinacy.-N. obstinateness &c. adj.; obstinacy, tenacity; cussedness [U.
604a; immovability; old school; inflexibility &c. (hardness) 323; obduracy, obduration[obs3]; dogged resolution; resolution &c.
604; ruling passion; blind side. self-will, contumacy, perversity; pervicacy|, pervicacity[obs3]; indocility[obs3]. bigotry, intolerance, dogmatism; opiniatry|, opiniativeness; fixed idea &c. (prejudgment) 481; fanaticism, zealotry, infatuation, monomania; opinionatedness opinionativeness[obs3]. mule; opinionist|, opinionatist[obs3], opiniator|, opinator|; stickler, dogmatist; bigot; zealot, enthusiast, fanatic.
Adj. obstinate, tenacious, stubborn, obdurate, casehardened; inflexible &c. (hard) 323; balky; immovable, unshakable, not to be moved; inert &c. 172; unchangeable &c.
150; inexorable &c. (determined) 604; mulish, obstinate as a mule, pig-headed. dogged; sullen, sulky; unmoved, uninfluenced, unaffected. willful, self-willed, perverse; resty[obs3], restive, restiff|; pervicacious[obs3], wayward, refractory, unruly; heady, headstrong; entete[Fr]; contumacious; crossgrained[obs3]. arbitrary, dogmatic, positive, bigoted; prejudiced &c.
481; creed- bound; prepossessed, infatuated; stiff-backed, stiff necked, stiff hearted; hard-mouthed, hidebound; unyielding; impervious, impracticable, inpersuasible[obs3]; unpersuadable; intractable, untractable[obs3]; incorrigible, deaf to advice, impervious to reason; crotchety &c.
Phr. non possumus[Lat]; no surrender; ils n'ont rien appris ne rien oublie[Fr]. #607.
Tergiversation.-N. change of mind, change of intention, change of purpose; afterthought. tergiversation, recantation; palinode, palinody[obs3]; renunciation; abjuration,abjurement[obs3]; defection &c. (relinquishment) 624; going over &c. v.; apostasy; retraction, retractation[obs3]; withdrawal; disavowal &c. (negation) 536; revocation, revokement[obs3]; reversal; repentance &c.
950- redintegratio amoris[Lat]. coquetry; vacillation &c.
605; backsliding; volte-face[Fr]. turn coat, turn tippet|; rat, apostate, renegade; convert, pervert; proselyte, deserter; backslider; blackleg, crawfish [U.
S.], recidivist. time server, time pleaser[obs3]; timist|, Vicar of Bray, trimmer, ambidexter[obs3]; weathercock &c. (changeable) 149; Janus.
605; ductile, slippery as an eel, trimming, ambidextrous, timeserving[obs3]; coquetting &c. v. revocatory[obs3], reactionary.
Phr. "a change came o'er the spirit of my dream" [Byron]. #608.
Caprice.-N. caprice, fancy, humor; whim, whimsy, whimsey[obs3], whimwham[obs3]; crotchet, capriccio, quirk, freak, maggot, fad, vagary, prank, fit, flimflam, escapade, boutade[Fr], wild-goose chase; capriciousness &c. adj.; kink.
V. be capricious &c. adj.; have a maggot in the brain; take it into one's head, strain at a gnat and swallow a camel; blow hot and cold; play fast and loose, play fantastic tricks; tourner casaque[Fr].
Adj. capricious; erratic, eccentric, fitful, hysterical; full of whims &c. n.; maggoty; inconsistent, fanciful, fantastic, whimsical, crotchety, kinky [U.
S.], particular, humorsome[obs3], freakish, skittish, wanton, wayward; contrary; captious; arbitrary; unconformable &c.
83; penny wise and pound foolish; fickle &c. (irresolute) 605; frivolous, sleeveless, giddy, volatile.
Adv. by fits and starts, without rhyme or reason.
Phr. nil fuit unquain sic inipar sibi[Lat]; the deuce is in him. #609.
615. take a decided step, take a decisive step; commit oneself to a course; pass the Rubicon, cross the Rubicon; cast in one's lot with; take for better or for worse.
Adj. optional; discretional &c. (voluntary) 600. eclectic; choosing &c. v.; preferential; chosen &c. v.; choice &c. (good) 648.
Adv. optionally &c. adj.; at pleasure &c. (will) 600; either the one or the other; or at the option of; whether or not; once and for all; for one's money. by choice, by preference; in preference; rather, before. #609a.
Absence of Choice.-N. no choice, Hobson's choice; first come # first served, random selection; necessity &c.
There's not a dime's worth of difference between them." [George Wallace]. #610.
Adj. rejected &c. v.; reject, rejectaneous|, rejectious|; not chosen &c.
609, to be thought of, out of the question Adv. neither, neither the one nor the other; no &c 536.
Phr. non haec in faedera[Lat]. #611.
Predetermination.-N. predestination, preordination, premeditation, predeliberation[obs3], predetermination; foregone conclusion, fait accompli[Fr]; parti pris[Fr]; resolve, propendency|; intention &c.
V. predestine, preordain, predetermine, premeditate, resolve, concert; resolve beforehand, predesignate.
Adj. prepense[obs3], premeditated &c. v., predesignated, predesigned[obs3]; advised, studied, designed, calculated; aforethought; intended &c.
620; foregone. well-laid, well-devised, well-weighed; maturely considered; cunning.
Adv. advisedly &c. adj.; with premeditation, deliberately, all things considered, with eyes open, in cold blood; intentionally &c.
Impulse.-N. impulse, sudden thought; impromptu, improvisation; inspiration, flash, spurt. improvisatore[obs3]; creature of impulse.
V. flash on the mind. say what comes uppermost; improvise, extemporize.
Adj. extemporaneous, impulsive, indeliberate[obs3]; snap; improvised, improvisate[obs3], improvisatory[obs3]; unpremeditated, unmeditated; improvise; unprompted, unguided; natural, unguarded; spontaneous &c. (voluntary) 600; instinctive &c.
Adv. extempore, extemporaneously; offhand, impromptu, a limproviste[Fr]; improviso[obs3]; on the spur of the moment, on the spur of the occasion. #613.
539; cling to, adhere to; repeat &c.
Desuetude.-N. desuetude, disusage[obs3]; obsolescence, disuse &c.
678; want of habit, want of practice; inusitation[obs3]; newness to; new brooms. infraction of usage &c. (unconformity) 83; nonprevalence[obs3]; "a custom more honored in the breach than the observance" [Hamlet].
Adj. unaccustomed, unused, unwonted, unseasoned, uninured[obs3], unhabituated[obs3], untrained; new; green &c. (unskilled) 699; unhackneyed. unusual &c. (unconformable) 83; nonobservant[obs3]; disused &c.
284; whip, lash, goad, spur, prick, urge; egg on, hound, hurry on; drag &c.
Adv. because, therefore &c. (cause) 155; from this motive, from that motive; for this reason, for that reason; for; by reason of, for the sake of, count of; out of, from, as, forasmuch as. for all the world; on principle.
Phr. fax mentis incendium gloriae[Lat]; "temptation hath a music for all ears" "to beguile many and be beguiled by one" [Willis][Othello]. #615a.
Absence of Motive.-N. absence of motive, aimlessness; # caprice &c.
608; chance &c. (absence of design) 621. V. have no motive; scruple &c. (be unwilling) 603. Adj. without rhyme or reason; aimless, capricious, whimsical &c. (chance) 621. Adv. out of mere caprice. #616.
Dissuasion.-N. dissuasion, dehortation[obs3], expostulation, remonstrance; deprecation &c.
766. discouragement, damper, wet blanket; disillusionment, disenchantment. cohibition &c. (restraint) 751[obs3]; curb &c. (means of restraint) 752; check &c. (hindrance) 706. reluctance &c. (unwillingness) 603; contraindication.
V. dissuade, dehort[obs3], cry out against, remonstrate, expostulate, warn, contraindicate. disincline, indispose, shake, stagger; dispirit; discourage, dishearten; deter; repress, hold back, keep back &c. (restrain) 751; render averse &c.
Adj. dissuading &c. v.; dissuasive; dehortatory[obs3], expostulatory[obs3]; monitive|, monitory. dissuaded &c. v.; admonitory; uninduced &c. (induce &c.
Adj. ostensibly &c. (manifest) 525; alleged, apologetic; pretended &c.
Adv. ostensibly; under color; under the plea, under the pretense of, under the guise of. 3.
Good.-N. good, benefit, advantage; improvement &c.
827. [Source of good] goodness &c.
662; pleasure giving &c. 829.
644; good &c., beneficial &c. 648.
Adv. well, aright, satisfactorily, favorably, not amis[Fr]; all for the best; to one's advantage &c. n.; in one's favor, in one's interest &c. n.
Phr. so far so good; magnum bonum[Lat]. #619.
828. * demon &v[Evil spirit].
980. bane &c. 663[Cause of evil]. badness &c.
649[Production of evil]; painfulness &c. 830; evil doer &c.
913. outrage, wrong, injury, foul play; bad turn, ill turn; disservice, spoliation &c.
791; grievance, crying evil. V. be in trouble &c. (adversity) 735. Adj. disastrous, bad &c.
649; awry, out of joint; disadvantageous. Adv. amis[Fr], wrong, ill, to one's cost Phr. "moving accidents by flood and field" [Othello]. SECTION II.
PROSPECTIVE VOLITION[1] [1] That is, volition having reference to a future object. 1.
Intention.-N. intent, intention, intentionality; purpose; quo animo[Lat]; project &c.
676; predetermination &c. 611; design, ambition. contemplation, mind, animus, view, purview, proposal; study; look out. final cause; raison d'etre[Fr]; cui bono[Lat]; object, aim, end; "the be all and the end all"; drift &c. (meaning) 516; tendency &c.
176; destination, mark, point, butt, goal, target, bull's-eye, quintain[obs3][medeival]; prey, quarry, game. decision, determination, resolve; fixed set purpose, settled purpose; ultimatum; resolution &c.
865; arriere pensee[Fr]; motive &c.
615. [Study of final causes] teleology.
611; compass, calculate; destine, destinate[obs3]; propose. project &c. (plan) 626; have a mind to &c. (be willing) 602; desire &c.
Adj. intended &c. v.; intentional, advised, express, determinate; prepense &c.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions" [Johnson]; sublimi feriam sidera vertice [Lat][Horace]. #621. [Absence of purpose in the succession of events] Chance.
156; unintentional, unintended; accidental; not meant; undesigned, purposed; unpremeditated &c.
612; unforeseen, uncontemplated, never thought of. random, indiscriminate, promiscuous; undirected; aimless, driftless[obs3], designless[obs3], purposeless, causeless; without purpose. possible &c.
470. unforeseeable, unpredictable, chancy, risky, speculative, dicey.
Adv. randomly, by chance, fortuitously; unpredictably, unforeseeably; casually &c.
156; unintentionally &c. adj.; unwittingly. en passant[Fr], by the way, incidentally; as it may happen; at random, at a venture, at haphazard.
Phr. acierta errando[Lat]; dextro tempore[Lat]; "fearful concatenation of circumstances" [D.
V. pursue, prosecute, follow; run after, make after, be after, hunt after, prowl after; shadow; carry on &c. (do) 680; engage in &c. (undertake) 676; set about &c. (begin) 66; endeavor &c.
Adj. pursuing &c. v.; in quest of &c. (inquiry) 461 in pursuit, in full cry, in hot pursuit; on the scent.
Adv. in pursuance of &c. (intention) 620; after.
Int. tallyho! yoicks! soho[obs3]! #623. [Absence of pursuit.] Avoidance.-N. abstention, abstinence; for bearance[obs3]; refraining &c. v.; inaction &c.
681; neutrality. avoidance, evasion, elusion; seclusion &c.
893. avolation|, flight; escape &c.
610. shirker &c. v.; truant; fugitive, refugee; runaway, runagate; maroon.
671; go away &c. (depart) 293; abandon &c.
624; reject &c. 610. lead one a dance, lead one a pretty dance; throw off the scent, play at hide and seek.
Adj. unsought, unattempted; avoiding &c. v.; neutral, shy of &c. (unwilling) 603; elusive, evasive; fugitive, runaway; shy, wild.
Adj. lest, in order to avoid.
Int. forbear! keep off, hands off! sauve qui peut[Fr]! [French: every man for himself]; devil take the hindmost!
Phr. "things unattempted yet in prose or rhyme" [Paradise Lost]. #624.
Relinquishment.-N. relinquishment, abandonment; desertion, defection, secession, withdrawal; cave of Adullam[obs3]; nolle prosequi[Lat]. discontinuance &c. (cessation) 142; renunciation &c. (recantation) 607; abrogation &c.
756; resignation &c. (retirement) 757; desuetude &c.
614; cession &c. (of property) 782.
Adj. unpursued[obs3]; relinquished &c. v.; relinquishing &c. v.
Int. avast! &c. (stop) 142. Phr. aufgeschoben ist nicht aufgehoben[Ger]; entbehre gern was du nicht hast[Ger]. #625.
926. part, role, cue; province, function, lookout, department, capacity, sphere, orb, field, line; walk, walk of life; beat, round, routine; race, career. office, place, post, chargeship[obs3], incumbency, living; situation, berth, employ; service &c. (servitude) 749; engagement; undertaking &c.
676. vocation, calling, profession, cloth, faculty; industry, art; industrial arts; craft, mystery, handicraft; trade &c. (commerce) 794. exercise; work &c. (action) 680; avocation; press of business &c. (activity) 682.
V. pass one's time in, employ one's time in, spend one's time in; employ oneself in, employ oneself upon; occupy oneself with, concern oneself with; make it one's business &c. n.; undertake &c.
676; enter a profession; betake oneself to, turn one's hand to; have to do with &c. (do) 680. office, place, post, chargeship[obs3], incumbency, living; situation, berth, employ; service &c. (servitude) 749; engagement; undertaking &c.
Adj. businesslike; workaday; professional; official, functional; busy &c. (actively employed) 682; on hand, in hand, in one's hands; afoot; on foot, on the anvil; going on; acting.
Adv. in the course of business, all in one's day's work; professionally &c.
Phr. "a business with an income at its heels" [Cowper]; amoto quaeramus seria ludo [Lat][Horace]; par negotiis neque supra [Lat][Tacitus]. #626.
S.]. role; policy &c. (line of conduct) 692. contrivance, invention, expedient, receipt, nostrum, artifice, device; pipelaying [U.
V. plan,,scheme, design, frame, contrive, project, forecast, sketch; devise, invent &c. (imagine) 515; set one's wits to work &c.
515; spring a project; fall upon, hit upon; strike out, chalk out, cut out, lay out, map out; lay down a plan; shape out a course, mark out a course; predetermine &c. 611; concert, preconcert, preestablish; prepare &c.
673; hatch, hatch a plot concoct; take steps, take measures. cast, recast, systematize, organize; arrange &c.
60; digest, mature. plot; counter-plot, counter-mine; dig a mine; lay a train; intrigue &c. (cunning) 702.
Adj. planned &c. v.; strategic, strategical; planning &c. v.; prepared, in course of preparation &c.
673; under consideration; on the tapis[obs3], on the carpet, on the floor. #627.
270[Lat]; on the high road to.
Phr. hae tibi erunt artes[Lat]. #628.
Mid-course.-N. middle course, midcourse; mean &c.
Adj. Adj. required &c. v.; requisite, needful, necessary, imperative, essential, indispensable, prerequisite; called for; in demand, in request. urgent, exigent, pressing, instant, crying, absorbing. in want of; destitute of &c.
707; subservience, subserviency; mediation, intervention, medium, intermedium[obs3], vehicle, hand; agency &c.
170. minister, handmaid; midwife, accoucheur[Fr], accoucheuse[Fr], obstetrician; gobetween; cat's-paw; stepping-stone. opener &c.
260; key; master key, passkey, latchkey; "open sesame"; passport, passe-partout, safe-conduct, password. instrument &c.
633; expedient &c. (plan) 626; means &c.
632. V. subserve, minister, mediate, intervene; be instrumental &c. adj.; pander to; officiate; tend.
644; ministerial, subservient, mediatorial[obs3]; intermediate, intervening; conducive.
Adv. through, by, per; whereby, thereby, hereby; by the agency of &c.
170; by dint of; by virtue of, in virtue of; through the medium of &c. n.; along with; on the shoulders of; by means of &c.
632; by the aid of, with the aid of &c. (assistance) 707. per fas et nefas[Lat], by fair means or foul; somehow, somehow or other; by hook or by crook. #632.
Means.-N. means, resources, wherewithal, ways and means; capital &c. (money) 800; revenue; stock in trade &c.
636; provision &c. 637; a shot in the locker; appliances &c. (machinery) 633; means and appliances; conveniences; cards to play; expedients &c. (measures) 626; two strings to one's bow; sheet anchor &c. (safety) 666; aid &c.
V. find means, have means, possess means &c. n.
262; vice, teeth, &c. (hold) 781; nail, rope &c. (join) 45; peg &c. (hang) 214; support &c.
215; spoon &c. (vehicle) 272; arms &c.
727; oar &c. (navigation) 267; cardiograph, recapper[obs3], snowplow, tenpenny[obs3], votograph[obs3].
Adj. instrumental &c. 631; mechanical, machinal[obs3]; brachial[Med]. #634.
Materials.-N. material, raw material, stuff, stock, staple; adobe, brown stone; chinking; clapboard; daubing; puncheon; shake; shingle, bricks and mortar; metal; stone; clay, brick crockery &c.
384; compo, composition; concrete; reinforced concrete, cement; wood, ore, timber. materials; supplies, munition, fuel, grist, household stuff pabulum &c. (food) 298; ammunition &c. (arms) 727; contingents; relay, reinforcement, reenforcement[obs3]; baggage &c. (personal property) 780; means &c.
Adj. raw &c. (unprepared) 674; wooden &c. n.; adobe. #636.
72; lay in store &c. Adj.; keep, file [papers]; lay in &c. (provide) 637; preserve &c. 670. Adj. stored &c. v.; in store, in reserve, in ordinary; spare, supernumerary. Phr. adde parvum parvo magnus acervus erit[Lat]. #637.
636; provide against a rainy day &c. (economy) 817. #638.
Waste.-N. consumption, expenditure, exhaustion; dispersion &c.
73; ebb; leakage &c. (exudation) 295; loss &c.
776; wear and tear; waste; prodigality &c.
679; wasting &c. v.; rubbish &c. (useless) 645. mountain in labor.
V. spend, expend, use, consume, swallow up, exhaust; impoverish; spill, drain, empty; disperse &c.
73. cast away, fool away, muddle away, throw away, fling away, fritter away; burn the candle at both ends, waste; squander &c.
Adj. wasted &c. v.; at a low ebb. wasteful &c. (prodigal) 818; penny wise and pound foolish.
Phr. magno conatu magnas nugas[Lat]; le jeu ne vaut pas la chandelle[Fr]; "idly busy rolls their world away" [Goldsmith]. #639.
Sufficiency.-N. sufficiency, adequacy, enough, withal, satisfaction, competence; no less; quantum sufficit[Lat], Q.S.. mediocrity &c. (average) 29. fill; fullness &c. (completeness) 52; plenitude, plenty; abundance; copiousness &c.
641; wholesale. rich; luxuriant &c. (fertile) 168; affluent &c. (wealthy) 803; wantless[obs3]; big with &c. (pregnant) 161. unexhausted[obs3], unwasted[obs3]; exhaustless, inexhaustible.
Adj.; full; in abundance &c. n. with no sparing hand; to one's heart's content, ad libitum, without stint.
Phr. "cut and come again" [Crabbe]; das Beste ist gut genug[Ger]. #640.
Insufficiency.-N. insufficiency; inadequacy, inadequateness; incompetence &c. (impotence) 158; deficiency &c. (incompleteness) 53; imperfection &c.
304; paucity; stint; scantiness &c. (smallness) 32; none to spare, bare subsistence. scarcity, dearth; want, need, lack, poverty, exigency; inanition, starvation, famine, drought. dole, mite, pittance; short allowance, short commons; half rations; banyan day. emptiness, poorness &c.
Adj.; depletion, vacancy, flaccidity; ebb tide; low water; "a beggarly account of empty boxes" [Romeo and Jul.]; indigence &c.
804; insolvency &c. (nonpayment) 808. V. be insufficient &c.
639; come short of &c.
304 run dry. want, lack, need, require; caret; be in want &c. (poor) 804, live from hand to mouth. render insufficient &c.
Adj.; drain of resources, impoverish &c. (waste) 638; stint &c. (begrudge) 819; put on short allowance. do insufficiently &c. adv.; scotch the snake.
Adj. insufficient, inadequate; too little &c.
639; unequal to; incompetent &c. (impotent) 158; "weighed in the balance and found wanting"; perfunctory &c. (neglect) 460; deficient &c. (incomplete) 53; wanting, &c. v.; imperfect &c.
651; ill-furnished, ill-provided, ill- stored, ill-off. slack, at a low ebb; empty, vacant, bare; short of, out of, destitute of, devoid of, bereft of &c.
819; at the end of one's tether; without resources &c.
632; in want &c. (poor) 804; in debt &c.
Adj.; in default of, for want of; failing.
Phr. semper avarus eget [Lat][Horace]. #641.
Redundancy.-N. redundancy, redundance[obs3]; too much, too many; superabundance, superfluity, superfluence|, saturation; nimiety[obs3], transcendency, exuberance, profuseness; profusion &c. (plenty) 639; repletion, enough in all conscience, satis superque[Lat], lion's share; more than enough &c.
639; plethora, engorgement, congestion, load, surfeit, sickener[obs3]; turgescence &c. (expansion) 194[obs3]; overdose, overmeasure[obs3], oversupply, overflow; inundation &c. (water) 348; avalanche. accumulation &c. (store) 636; heap &c.
72; drug, drug in the market; glut; crowd; burden. excess; surplus, overplus[obs3]; epact[obs3]; margin; remainder &c.
40; duplicate; surplusage[obs3], expletive; work of supererogation; bonus, bonanza. luxury; intemperance &c.
954; extravagance &c. (prodigality) 818; exorbitance, lavishment[obs3]. pleonasm &c. (diffuseness) 573; too many irons in the fire; embarras de richesses[Fr].
549; wallow in roll in &c. (plenty) 639 remain on one's hands, hang heavy on hand, go a begging.
Adj. redundant; too much, too many; exuberant, inordinate, superabundant, excessive, overmuch, replete, profuse, lavish; prodigal &c.
818; exorbitant; overweening; extravagant; overcharged &c. v.; supersaturated, drenched, overflowing; running over, running to waste, running down. crammed to overflowing, filled to overflowing; gorged, ready to burst; dropsical, turgid, plethoric; obese &c.
194. superfluous, unnecessary, needless, supervacaneous|, uncalled for, to spare, in excess; over and above &c. (remainder) 40; de trop[Fr]; adscititious &c. (additional) 37; supernumerary &c. (reserve) 636; on one's hands, spare, duplicate, supererogatory, expletive; un peu fort[Fr].
Phr. it never rains but it pours; fortuna multis dat nimium nulli satis [Lat]. _2.
Importance.-N. importance, consequence, moment, prominence, consideration, mark, materialness. import, significance, concern; emphasis, interest. greatness &c.
33; notability &c. (repute) 873; weight &c. (influence) 175; value &c. (goodness) 648; usefulness &c.
33; considerable &c. (great) 31; marked &c. v.; rare &c.
137. significant, telling, trenchant, emphatic, pregnant; tanti[Lat].
Phr. expende Hannibalem![Lat] [Juvenal]. #643.
Unimportance.-N. unimportance, insignificance, nothingness, immateriality. triviality, levity, frivolity; paltriness &c.
32; vanity &c. (uselessness) 645; matter of indifference &c.
866; no object. nothing, nothing to signify,, nothing worth speaking of, nothing particular, nothing to boast of, nothing to speak of; small matter, no great matter, trifling matter &c.
642; go for nothing, matter nothing, signify nothing, matter little, matter little or nothing; not matter a straw &c. n. make light of &c. (underestimate) 483; catch at straws &c. (overestimate) 482.
Adj. unimportant; of little account, of small account, of no account, of little importance, of no importance &c.
Phr. magno conatu magnas nugas[Lat]; le jeu ne vaut pas la chandelle[Fr]; it matters not, it does not signify; it is of no consequence, it is of no importance; elephantus non capit murem[Lat]; tempete dans un verre d'eau[Fr]. #644.
Utility.-N. utility; usefulness &c. adj.; efficacy, efficiency, adequacy; service, use, stead, avail; help &c. (aid) 707; applicability &c. adj.; subservience &c. (instrumentality) 631; function &c. (business) 625; value; worth &c. (goodness) 648; money's worth; productiveness &c.
168; cui bono &c. (intention) 620[Lat]; utilization &c. (use) 677 step in the right direction. common weal; commonwealth public good, public interest; utilitarianism &c. (philanthropy) 910.
707. bear fruit &c. (produce) 161; bring grist to the mill; profit, remunerate; benefit &c. (do good) 648. find one's account in, find one's advantage in; reap the benefit of &c. (be better for) 658. render useful &c. (use) 677.
646. applicable, available, ready, handy, at hand, tangible; commodious, adaptable; of all work.
Adv. usefully &c. adj.; pro bono publico[Lat]. #645.
Inutility.-N. inutility; uselessness &c. adj.; inefficacy[obs3], futility; ineptitude, inaptitude; unsubservience[obs3]; inadequacy &c. (insufficiency) 640; inefficiency.&c. (incompetence) 158; unskillfulness &c.
V. be useless &c. Adj.; go a begging &c. (redundant) 641; fail &c.
Adj. useless, inutile, inefficacious, futile, unavailing, bootless; inoperative &c.
Adv. uselessly &c. adj.; to little purpose, to no purpose, to little or no purpose.
Int. cui bono?[Lat]; what's the good!
Phr. actum ne agas[Lat][obs3]; chercher une aiguille dans une botte de foin[obs3][Fr]; tanto buon che val niente[It]. #646. [Specific subservience.] Expedience.-N. expedience, expediency; desirableness, desirability &c. adj.; fitness &c. (agreement) 23; utility &c.
644; propriety; opportunism; advantage. high time &c. (occasion) 134.
Adj.; suit &c. (agree) 23; befit; suit the time, befit the time, suit the season, befit the season, suit the occasion, befit the occasion. conform &c. 82.
Adj. expedient; desirable, advisable, acceptable; convenient; worth while, meet; fit, fitting; due, proper, eligible, seemly, becoming; befitting &c. v.; opportune &c. (in season) 134; in loco; suitable &c. (accordant) 23; applicable &c. (useful) 644.
Adv. in the right place; conveniently &c. adj.
Phr. operae pretium est[Lat]. #647.
Inexpedience.-N. inexpedience, inexpediency; undesirableness, undesirability &c.
Adj.; discommodity[obs3], impropriety; unfitness &c. (disagreement) 24; inutility &c.
Adj.; come amiss &c. (disagree) 24; embarrass &c. (hinder) 706; put to inconvenience; pay too dear for one's whistle.
Phr. it will never do. #648. [Capability of producing good.
Good qualities.] Goodness.-N. goodness &c. adj.; excellence, merit; virtue &c.
944; value, worth, price. super-excellence, supereminence; superiority &c.
Adj.; produce good, do good &c.
618; profit &c. (be of use) 644; benefit; confer a benefit &c.
618. be the making of, do a world of good, make a man of. produce a good effect; do a good turn, confer an obligation; improve &c.
658. do no harm, break no bones. be good &c. adj.; excel, transcend &c. (be superior) 33; bear away the bell. stand the proof, stand the test; pass muster, pass an examination. challenge comparison, vie, emulate, rival.
Adj. harmless, hurtless[obs3]; unobnoxious[obs3], innocuous, innocent, inoffensive. beneficial, valuable, of value; serviceable &c. (useful) 644; advantageous, edifying, profitable; salutary &c. (healthful) 656. favorable; propitious &c. (hope-giving) 858; fair. good, good as gold; excellent; better; superior &c.
33; above par; nice, fine; genuine &c. (true) 494. best, choice, select, picked, elect, recherche, rare, priceless; unparagoned[obs3], unparalleled &c. (supreme) 33; superlatively &c.
33; good; bully*, crackajack*[obs3], giltedged; superfine, superexcellent[obs3]; of the first water; first-rate, first-class; high- wrought, exquisite, very best, crack, prime, tiptop, capital, cardinal; standard &c. (perfect) 650; inimitable. admirable, estimable; praiseworthy &c. (approve) 931; pleasing &c.
Adv. beneficially &c. adj.; well &c.
Jewels five words long" [Tennyson]; "long may such goodness live!" [Rogers]; "the luxury of doing good" [Goldsmith]. #649. [Capability of producing evil.
Bad qualities.] Badness.-N. hurtfulness &c.
Adj[obs3].; virulence. evil doer &c.
663; plague spot &c. (insalubrity) 657; evil star, ill wind; hoodoo; Jonah; snake in the grass, skeleton in the closet; amari aliquid[Lat][obs3], thorn in the side. malignity; malevolence &c.
907; tender mercies [ironically]. ill-treatment, annoyance, molestation, abuse, oppression, persecution, outrage; misusage &c.
679; injury &c. (damage) 659; knockout drops [U.
S.]. badness &c. adj.; peccancy[obs3], abomination; painfulness &c.
830; pestilence &c. (disease) 655; guilt &c.
V. be hurtful &c. adj.; cause evil, produce evil, inflict evil, work evil, do evil &c.
619; damnify[obs3], endamage[obs3], hurt, harm; injure &c. (damage) 659; pain &c.
830. wrong, aggrieve, oppress, persecute; trample upon, tread upon, bear hard upon, put upon; overburden; weigh down, weigh heavy on; victimize; run down; molest &c.
830. maltreat, abuse; ill-use, ill-treat; buffet, bruise, scratch, maul; smite &c. (scourge) 972; do violence, do harm, do a mischief; stab, pierce, outrage. do mischief, make mischief; bring into trouble. destroy &c.
Adj. hurtful, harmful, scathful[obs3], baneful, baleful; injurious, deleterious, detrimental, noxious, pernicious, mischievous, full of mischief, mischief-making, malefic, malignant, nocuous, noisome; prejudicial; disserviceable[obs3], disadvantageous; wide-wasting. unlucky, sinister; obnoxious; untoward, disastrous. oppressive, burdensome, onerous; malign &c. (malevolent) 907. corrupting &c. (corrupt &c.
659); virulent, venomous, envenomed, corrosive; poisonous &c. (morbific) 657[obs3]; deadly &c. (killing) 361; destructive &c. (destroying) 162; inauspicious &c.
859. bad, ill, arrant, as bad as bad can be, dreadful; horrid, horrible; dire; rank, peccant, foul, fulsome; rotten, rotten at the core. vile, base, villainous; mean &c. (paltry) 643; injured &c. deteriorated &c.
659; unsatisfactory, exceptionable, indifferent; below par &c. (imperfect) 651; illcontrived, ill-conditioned; wretched, sad, grievous, deplorable, lamentable; pitiful, pitiable, woeful &c. (painful) 830. evil, wrong; depraved &c.
Adj.; wrong, ill; to one's cost; where the shoe pinches. Phr. bad is the best; the worst come to the worst; herba mala presto cresco [Lat]; "wrongs unredressed or insults unavenged" [Wordsworth]. #650.
Perfection.-N. perfection; perfectness &c. adj.; indefectibility[obs3]; impeccancy[obs3], impeccability. pink, beau ideal, phenix, paragon; pink of perfection, acme of perfection; ne plus ultra[Lat]; summit &c.
210. cygne noir[Fr]; philosopher's stone; chrysolite, Koh-i-noor. model, standard, pattern, mirror, admirable Crichton; trump, very prince of. masterpiece, superexcellence &c. (goodness) 648[obs3]; transcendence &c. (superiority) 33.
V. be perfect &c. adj.; transcend &c. (be supreme) 33. bring to perfection, perfect, ripen, mature; complete &,,c.
729; put in trim &c. (prepare) 673; maturate.
Adj. perfect, faultless; indefective[obs3], indeficient[obs3], indefectible; immaculate, spotless, impeccable; free from imperfection &c.
659; sound, sound as a roach; in perfect condition; scathless[obs3], intact, harmless; seaworthy &c. (safe) 644; right as a trivet; in seipso totus teres atque rotundus [Lat][Horace]; consummate &c. (complete) 52; finished &c.
Adj.; deficiency; inadequacy &c. (insufficiency) 640; peccancy &c. (badness) 649[obs3]; immaturity &c.
674. fault, defect, weak point; screw loose; flaw &c. (break) 70; gap &c.
243; taint, attainder; bar sinister, hole in one's coat; blemish &c.
160; half blood; shortcoming &c.
304; drawback; seamy side. mediocrity; no great shakes, no great catch; not much to boast of; one-horse shay.
V. be imperfect &c. adj.; have a defect &c. n.; lie under a disadvantage; spring a leak. not pass muster, barely pass muster; fall short &c.
304. Adj. imperfect; not perfect &c.
53; found wanting; below par; short- handed; below its full strength, under its full strength, below its full complement. indifferent, middling, ordinary, mediocre; average &c.
Adv. almost &c.; to a limited extent, rather &c.
32; pretty, moderately, passing; only, considering, all things considered, enough.
Phr. surgit amari aliquid[Lat]. #652.
V. be clean, render clean &c.
Adv. neatly &c. adj.; clean as a whistle. #653.
Adj.; impurity; immundity[obs3], immundicity[obs3]; impurity &c.
961[of mind]. defilement, contamination &c. v.; defoedation|; soilure[obs3], soiliness|; abomination; leaven; taint, tainture|; fetor &c.
401[obs3]. decay; putrescence, putrefaction; corruption; mold, must, mildew, dry rot, mucor, rubigo|. slovenry[obs3]; slovenliness &c.
S.]. spawn, offal, gurry [obs3][U.
S.]; lientery[obs3]; garbage, carrion; excreta &c.
V. be unclean, become unclean &c.
Adj.; rot, putrefy, ferment, fester, rankle, reek; stink &c.
Phr. "they that touch pitch will be defiled" [Much Ado About Nothing]. #654.
Health.-N. health, sanity; soundness &c. adj.; vigor; good health, perfect health, excellent health, rude health, robust health; bloom. mens sana in corpore sano[Lat]; Hygeia[obs3]; incorruption, incorruptibility; good state of health, clean bill of health; eupepsia[obs3]; euphoria, euphory[obs3]; St. Anthony's fire[obs3].
V. be in health &c. adj. bloom, flourish. keep body and soul together, keep on one's legs; enjoy good health, enjoy a good state of health; have a clean bill of health. return to health; recover &c.
660; get better &c. (improve) 658; take a new lease of life, fresh lease of life; recruit; restore to health; cure &c. (restore) 660; tinker.
Phr. "health that snuffs the morning air" [Grainger]; non est vivere sed valere vita [Lat][Martial]. #655.
657[obs3]; epidemic, endemic; zymotic[obs3]. #656.
Adj. # fine air, fine climate; eudiometer[obs3]. [Preservation of health] hygiene; valetudinarian, valetudinarianism; sanitarian; sanitarium, sanitorium. V. be salubrious &c.
Adj.; agree with; assimilate &c.
23. Adj. salubrious, salutary, salutiferous[obs3]; wholesome; healthy, healthful; sanitary, prophYlactic, benign, bracing, tonic, invigorating, good for, nutritious; hygeian[obs3], hygienic. innoxious[obs3], innocuous, innocent; harmless, uninjurious, uninfectious. sanative &c. (remedial) 662; restorative &c. (reinstate) 660; useful &c.
Adj.; nonnaturals[obs3]; plague spot; malaria &c. (poison) 663; death in the pot, contagion; toxicity.
Improvement.-N. improvement; amelioration, melioration; # betterment; mend, amendment, emendation; mending &c. v.; advancement; advance &c. (progress) 282; ascent &c.
305; promotion, preferment; elevation &c.
35; cultivation, civilization; culture, march of intellect; menticulture[obs3]; race-culture, eugenics. reform, reformation; revision, radical reform; second thoughts, correction, limoe labor[Lat], refinement, elaboration; purification &c. 652; oxidation; repair &c. (restoration) 660; recovery &c.
660. revise, new edition. reformer, radical. V. improve; be better, become better, get better; mend, amend. advance &c. (progress) 282; ascend &c.
35; fructify, ripen, mature; pick up, come about, rally, take a favorable turn; turn over a new leaf, turn the corner; raise one's head, sow one's wild oats; recover &c.
652. relieve, refresh, infuse new blood into, recruit. reform, remodel, reorganize; new model. view in a new light, think better of, appeal from Philip drunk to Philip sober. palliate, mitigate; lessen an evil &c.
36. Adj. improving &c. v.; progressive, improved &c. v.; better, better off, better for; all the better for; better advised. reformatory, emendatory[obs3]; reparatory &c. (restorative) 660[obs3]; remedial &c.
662. corrigible, improvable; accultural[obs3]. adv. on consideration, on reconsideration, on second thoughts, on better advice; ad melius inquirendum[Lat]. phr. urbent latericiam invenit marmoream reliquit[Lat]. #659.
Deterioration.-N. deterioration, debasement; wane, ebb; recession &c.
36. degeneracy, degeneration, degenerateness; degradation; depravation, depravement; devolution; depravity &c.
162; aphid, Aphis, plant louse, puceron[obs3]; vinefretter[obs3], vinegrub[obs3]. wreck, mere wreck, honeycomb, magni nominis umbra[Lat]; jade, plug, rackabones [obs3][U.
V. be worse, be deteriorated, become worse, become deteriorated &c.
Adj.; have seen better days, deteriorate, degenerate, fall off; wane &c. (decrease) 36; ebb; retrograde &c.
360. [Render less good] deteriorate; weaken &c.
945. embitter, acerbate, exacerbate, aggravate. injure, impair, labefy[obs3], damage, harm, hurt, shend|, scath|, scathe, spoil, mar, despoil, dilapidate, waste; overrun; ravage; pillage &c.
Adj. unimproved &c. (improve &c.
688; retrograde &c. (retrogressive) 283; deleterious &c.
Phr. out of the frying pan into the fire; agrescit medendo[Latin]; "what a falling off was there!" [Hamlet]. #660.
Restoration.-N. restoration, restoral; reinstatement, replacement, rehabilitation, reestablishment, reconstitution, reconstruction; reproduction &c.
163; renovation, renewal; revival, revivessence[obs3], reviviscence[obs3]; refreshment &c.
834. tinker, cobbler; vis medicatrix &c. (remedy) 662[obs3]. curableness.
689. make whole, redintegrate[obs3]; recoup &c.
Adj. restored &c. v.; redivivus[Lat], convalescent; in a fair way; none the worse; rejuvenated. restoring &c. v.; restorative, recuperative; sanative, reparative, sanatory[obs3], reparatory[obs3]; curative, remedial. restorable, recoverable, sanable[obs3], remediable, retrievable, curable.
Adv. in statu quo[Lat]; as you were. phr. revenons a nos moutons[Fr]; medecin[Fr], gueris-toi toi-meme[Fr]; vestigia nulla retrorsum [Lat][Horace]. #661.
Relapse.-N. relapse, lapse; falling back &c. v.; # retrogradation &c. (retrogression) 283[obs3]; deterioration &c.
659. [Return to, or recurrence of a bad state] backsliding, recidivation |; recidivism, recidivity[obs3]; recrudescence. V. relapse, lapse; fall back, slide back, sink back; return; retrograde &c.
283; recidivate; fall off again &c.
V. apply a remedy &c. n.; doctor, dose, physic, nurse, minister to, attend, dress the wounds, plaster; drain; prevent &c.
660; drench with physic; bleed, cup, let blood; manicure. operate, excise, cut out; incise.
Bane.-N. bane, curse; evil &c.
980. [Science of poisons] toxicology.
Adj. baneful &c. (bad) 649; poisonous &c. (unwholesome) 657. phr. bibere venenum in auro[Lat]. _3.
Safety.-N. safety, security, surety, impregnability; invulnerability, invulnerableness &c.
Adj.; danger past, danger over; storm blown over; coast clear; escape &c.
671; means of escape; blow valve, safety valve, release valve, sniffing valve; safeguard, palladium. guardianship, wardship, wardenship; tutelage, custody, safekeeping; preservation &c.
666; precaution &c. (preparation) 673; quarantine, cordon sanitaire[Fr]. confidence &c. 858[Sense of security].
Adj.; keep one's head above water, tide over, save one's bacon; ride out the storm, weather the storm; light upon one's feet, land on one's feet; bear a charmed life; escape &c.
671. make safe, render safe &c.
Adj.; protect; take care of &c. (care) 459; preserve &c.
Danger.-N. danger, peril, insecurity, jeopardy, risk, hazard, venture, precariousness, slipperiness; instability &c.
667. rock ahead[Approach of danger], breakers ahead; storm brewing; clouds in the horizon, clouds gathering; warning &c.
669. [Sense of danger] apprehension &c.
V. be in danger &c.
909; run one hard; lay a trap for &c. (deceive) 545.
Adj. in danger &c. n.; endangered &c. v.; fraught with danger; dangerous, hazardous, perilous, parlous, periculous|; unsafe, unprotected &c. (safe, protect &c.
Phr. incidit in Scyllam qui vult vitare Charybdim[Lat]; nam tua res agitur paries dum proximus ardet[Lat]. #666. [Means of safety.] Refuge.-N. refuge, sanctuary, retreat, fastness; acropolis; keep, last resort; ward; prison &c.
V. seek refuge, take refuge, find refuge &c. n.; seek safety, find safety &c.
664; throw oneself into the arms of; break for taller timber [U.
530; pitfall, trapdoor; trap &c. (snare) 545. sword of Damocles; wolf at the door, snake in the grass, death in the pot; latency &c.
526. ugly customer, dangerous person, le chat qui dort[Fr]; firebrand, hornet's nest.
Phr. latet anquis in herba [Lat][Vergil]; proximus ardet Ucalegon [Lat][Vergil]. #668.
Warning.-N. warning, early warning, caution, caveat; notice &c. (information) 527; premonition, premonishment[obs3]; prediction &c. 511; contraindication, lesson, dehortation[obs3]; admonition, monition; alarm &c.
864. monitor, guard camera, radar, AWACS, spy satellite, spy-in-the-sky, U2 plane, spy plane.
V. warn, caution; forewarn, prewarn[obs3]; admonish, premonish[obs3]; give notice, give warning, dehort[obs3]; menace &c. (threaten) 909; put on one's guard; sound the alarm &c.
669; croak. beware, ware; take warning, take heed at one's peril; keep watch and ward &c. (care) 459.
Adj. warning &c. v.; premonitory, monitory, cautionary; admonitory, admonitive[obs3]; sematic[Biol]. warned, forewarned &c. v.; on one's guard &c. (careful) 459, (cautious) 864.
Adv. in terrorem[Lat] &c. (threat) 909.
Int. beware! ware! take care! look out! fore![golf], mind what you are about!, take care what you are about! mind!
668; fogsignal, foghorn; yellow flag; danger signal; red light, red flag; fire bell; police whistle. false alarm, cry of wolf; bug-bear, bugaboo.
V. give the alarm, raise the alarm, sound the alarm, turn in the alarm, beat the alarm, give an alarm, raise an alarm, sound an alarm, turn in an alarm, beat an alarm &c. n.; alarm; warn &c.
668; ring the tocsin; battre la generale[Fr]; cry wolf.
Int. sauve qui peut[Fr]! [French: every man for himself]; qui vive? [Fr]. #670.
V. preserve, maintain, keep, sustain, support, hold; keep up, keep alive; refrigerate, keep on ice; not willingly let die; bank up; nurse; save, rescue; be safe, make safe &c.
Phr. nolumus leges Angliae mutari[Lat][obs3]. #671.
Escape.-N. escape, scape; avolation|, elopement, flight; evasion &c. (avoidance) 623; retreat; narrow escape, hairbreadth escape; close call; come off, impunity. [Means of escape] loophole &c. (opening) 260; path &c.
666; vent, vent peg; safety valve; drawbridge, fire escape. reprieve &c. (deliverance) 672; liberation &c.
750. refugee &c. (fugitive) 623.
Adj..escaping, escaped &c. v. stolen away, fled.
Phr. the bird has flown the coop. #672.
Deliverance.-N. deliverance, extrication, rescue; reprieve, reprieval[obs3]; respite; liberation &c.
750; emancipation; redemption, salvation; riddance; gaol delivery; redeemableness[obs3].
Adj. saved &c. v. extricable, redeemable, rescuable.
Int. to the rescue! 3.
Preparation.-N. preparation; providing &c. v.; provision, providence; anticipation &c. (foresight) 510; precaution, preconcertation[obs3], predisposition; forecast &c. (plan) 626; rehearsal, note of preparation. [Putting in order] arrangement &c.
Adv. in preparation, in anticipation of; against, for; abroach[obs3].
Phr. a bove majori discit arare minor[Lat]; "looking before and after" [Hamlet], si vis pacem para bellum[Lat]. #674.
Nonpreparation.-N. non-preparation, absence of preparation, want of preparation; inculture|, inconcoction|, improvidence. immaturity, crudity; rawness &c.
Adj.; abortion; disqualification. [Absence of art] nature, state of nature; virgin soil, unweeded garden; neglect &c.
460. rough copy &c. (plan) 626; germ &c.
635. improvisation &c. (impulse) 612.
Adj.; want preparation, lack preparation; lie fallow; s'embarquer sans biscuits[Fr]; live from hand to mouth. [Render unprepared] dismantle &c. (render useless) 645; undress &c.
226. extemporize, improvise, ad lib.
Adj. unprepared &c. [prepare &c.
673]; without preparation &c. 673; incomplete &c.
Essay.-N. essay, trial, endeavor, attempt; aim, struggle, venture, adventure, speculation, coup d'essai[Fr], debut; probation &c. (experiment) 463.
V. try, essay; experiment &c.
Adj. essaying &c. v.; experimental &c.
Adv. experimentally &c. Adj.; on trial, at a venture; by rule of thumb. if one may be so bold. Phr. aut non tentaris aut perfice [Lat][Ovid]; chi non s'arrischia non guadagna[Fr][obs3]. #676.
769; adventure, venture; engagement &c. (promise) 768; enterprise, emprise[obs3]; pilgrimage; matter in hand &c. (business ) 625; move; first move &c. (beginning) 66.
V. undertake; engage in, embark in; launch into, plunge into; volunteer; apprentice oneself to; engage &c. (promise) 768; contract &c.
Use.-N. use; employ, employment; exercise, exercitation[obs3]; application, appliance; adhibition[obs3], disposal; consumption; agency &c. (physical) 170; usufruct; usefulness &c.
644; benefit; recourse, resort, avail. [Conversion to use] utilization, service, wear. [Way of using] usage.
Adj. in use; used &c. v.; well-worn, well-trodden. useful &c.
644; subservient &c. (instrumental) 631. #678.
Disuse.-N. forbearance, abstinence; disuse; relinquishment &c.
782; desuetude &c. (want of habit) 614; disusage[obs3].
Adj. not used &c. v.; unemployed, unapplied, undisposed of, unspent, unexercised, untouched, untrodden, unessayed[obs3], ungathered[obs3], unculled; uncalled for, not required. disused &c. v.; done with. #679.
Misuse.-N. misuse, misusage, misemployment[obs3], # misapplication, misappropriation. abuse, profanation, prostitution, desecration; waste &c.
638. V. misuse, misemploy, misapply, misappropriate. desecrate, abuse, profane, prostitute; waste &c.
638; overtask, overtax, overwork; squander &c.
818. cut blocks with a razor, employ a steam engine to crack a nut; catch at a straw. Adj. misused &c. v. Phr. ludere cum sacris[Lat]. SECTION III.
Action.-N. action, performance; doing, &c. v.; perpetration; exercise, excitation; movement, operation, evolution, work; labor &c. (exertion) 686; praxis, execution; procedure &c. (conduct) 692; handicraft; business &c.
V. do, perform, execute; achieve &c. (complete) 729; transact, enact; commit, perpetrate, inflict; exercise, prosecute, carry on, work, practice, play. employ oneself, ply one's task; officiate, have in hand &c. (business) 625; labor &c.
Adj. doing &c. v.; acting; in action; in harness; on duty; in operation &c.
Browning]; vivre-ce nest pas respirer c'est agir[Fr][obs3]; "we live in deeds not years" [Bailey]. #681.
Inaction.-N. inaction, passiveness, abstinence from action; noninterference, nonintervention; Fabian policy, conservative policy; neglect &c.
683; rest &c. (repose) 687; quiescence &c.
265; want of occupation, inoccupation[obs3]; idle hours, time hanging on one's hands, dolce far niente[It]; sinecure, featherbed, featherbedding, cushy job, no- show job; soft snap, soft thing.
V. not do, not act, not attempt; be inactive &c.
Adj. not doing &c. v.; not done &c. v.; undone; passive; unoccupied, unemployed; out of employ, out of work; fallow; desaeuvre[Fr].
Adv. re infecta[Lat], at a stand, les bras croisis[Fr], with folded arms; with the hands in the pockets, with the hands behind one's back; pour passer le temps[Fr].
Int. so let it be! stop! &c.
Phr. cunctando restituit rem "If it ain't broke don't fix it" [Lat][Bert Lance]; stare decisis [Latin: (Law) let the decision stand]. #682.
Activity.-N. activity; briskness, liveliness &c. adj.; animation, life, vivacity, spirit, dash, energy; snap, vim. nimbleness, agility; smartness, quickness &c. adj.; velocity, &c.
274; alacrity, promptitude; despatch, dispatch; expedition; haste &c.
684; punctuality &c. (early) 132. eagerness, zeal, ardor, perfervidum aingenium[Lat][obs3], empressement[Fr], earnestness, intentness; abandon; vigor &c. (physical energy) 171; devotion &c. (resolution) 604; exertion &c.
686. industry, assiduity; assiduousness &c. adj.; sedulity; laboriousness; drudgery &c. (labor) 686; painstaking, diligence; perseverance &c.
604a; indefatigation|; habits of business. vigilance &c.
134 lose no time, not lose a moment, make the most of one's time, not suffer the grass to grow under one's feet, improve the shining hour, make short work of; dash off; make haste &c.
Adv. actively &c. adj.; with life and spirit, with might and main &c.
684, with wings; full tilt, in mediis rebus[Lat].
Int. be alive, look alive, look sharp! move on, push on! keep moving! go ahead! stir your stumps! age quod agis[Lat]! jaldi[obs3]! karo[obs3]! step lively!
681; inertness &c. 172; obstinacy &c.
606. lull &c. (cessation) 142; quiescence &c.
V. be inactive &c. adj.; do nothing &c.
265; unoccupied &c. (doing nothing) 681 unbusied[obs3]. indolent, lazy, slothful, idle, lusk[obs3], remiss, slack, inert, torpid, sluggish, otiose, languid, supine, heavy, dull, leaden, lumpish[obs3]; exanimate[obs3], soulless; listless; drony[obs3], dronish[obs3]; lazy as Ludlam's dog. dilatory, laggard; lagging &c. v.; slow &c.
Adv. inactively &c. adj.; at leisure &c.
Haste.-N. haste, urgency; despatch, dispatch; acceleration, spurt, spirt[obs3], forced march, rush, dash; speed, velocity &c.
274; precipitancy, precipitation, precipitousness &c. adj.; impetuosity; brusquerie[obs3]; hurry, drive, scramble, bustle, fuss, fidget, flurry, flutter, splutter.
274; accelerate, expedite, put on, precipitate, urge, whip; railroad.
Adj. hasty, hurried, brusque; scrambling, cursory, precipitate, headlong, furious, boisterous, impetuous, hotheaded; feverish, fussy; pushing. in haste, in a hurry &c. n.; in hot haste, in all haste; breathless, pressed for time, hard pressed, urgent.
275; while away the time &c. (inaction) 681; be master of one's time, be an idle man. Adj. leisure, leisurely; slow &c.
275; deliberate, quiet, calm, undisturbed; at leisure, at one's ease, at loose ends, at a loose end. Adv. unhurriedly, deliberately, without undue haste; anytime. Phr. time hanging heavy on one's hands; eile mit Weile[Ger]. #686.
604; energy &c. (physical) 171.
Adj. laboring &c. v. laborious, operose[obs3], elaborate; strained; toilsome, troublesome, wearisome; uphill; herculean, gymnastic, palestric[obs3]. hard-working, painstaking; strenuous, energetic. hard at work, on the stretch.
Phr. aide-toi le ciel t'aidera[Fr]; "and still be doing, never done" [Butler]; buen principio la mitad es hecha [Sp]; cosa ben fatta e' fatta due volie [It];"it is better to wear out than to rust out" [Bp.
Hornel]; labor omnia vincit "labor, wide as the earth, has its summit in Heaven" [Lat][Vergil][Carlyle]; le travail du corps delivre des peines de l'esprit [Fr][fr]; manu forti[Lat]; ora et labora[Lat]. #687.
Repose.-N. repose, rest, silken repose; sleep &c.
683; lassitude, tiredness, fatigation|, exhaustion; sweat; dyspnoea. anhelation, shortness of breath; faintness; collapse, prostration, swoon, fainting, deliquium[Lat], syncope, lipothymy[obs3]; goneness[obs3].
Adj. fatigued, tired &c. v.; weary &c.
Refreshment.-N. bracing &c. v.; recovery of strength, recuperation &c.
660; repair, refection, refocillation|, refreshment, regalement[obs3], bait; relief &c.
834. break, spell. refreshment stand; refreshments; ice cream[list], cold soda, soda pop, hot dogs (food).
159; perk up, get one's second wind. come to oneself &c. (revive) 660; feel refreshed, feel like a giant refreshed.
Adj. refreshing &c v.; recuperative &c.
660. refreshed &c. v.; untired[obs3], unwearied. #690.
746; representative &c. (commissioner) 758, (deputy) 759. coworker, party to, participator in, particeps criminis[Lat], dramatis personae[Lat]; personnel.
Phr. quorum pars magna fui [Lat][Vergil]; faber est quisque fortunae suae [Lat]. #691.
Adj. at work, at the office, at the shop; working. 2.
Conduct.-N. conduct[actions of an individual agent]; behavior; deportment, comportment; carriage, maintien[obs3], demeanor, guise, bearing, manner, observance. dealing, transaction &c. (action) 680; business &c.
625. tactics, game, game plan, policy, polity; generalship, statesmanship, seamanship; strategy, strategics[obs3]; plan &c.
V. transact[cause to occur], execute; despatch, dispatch; proceed with, discharge; carry on, carry through, carry out, carry into effect, put into effect; work out; go through, get through; enact; put into practice; do &c.
680. deal with, have to do with; treat, handle a case; take steps, take measures.
Adj. conducting &c. v. strategical, businesslike, practical, executive. #693.
694; chair, portfolio. statesmanship; statecraft, kingcraft[obs3], queencraft[obs3]. ministry, ministration; administration; stewardship, proctorship[obs3]; agency. [person who directs] director &c.
Adj. directing &c. v.; hegemonic.
Adv. at the helm, at the head of. #694.
Director.-N. director, manager, governor, rector, comptroller. superintendent, supervisor, straw boss. intendant; overseer, overlooker[obs3]; supercargo[obs3], husband, inspector, visitor, ranger, surveyor, aedile[obs3]; moderator, monitor, taskmaster; master &c.
745; leader, ringleader, demagogue, corypheus, conductor, fugleman[obs3], precentor[obs3], bellwether, agitator; caporal[obs3], choregus[obs3], collector, file leader, flugelman[obs3], linkboy[obs3]. guiding star &c. (guidance) 693; adviser &c.
72. [person who is member of a council] member; senator; member of parliament, M.P.; councilor, representative of the people; assemblyman, congressman; councilman, councilwoman, alderman, freeholder.
V. assemble, gather together, meet (assemblage) 72; confer, caucus, hold council; huddle [coll.].
Adj. senatorial, curule[obs3]; congressional, parliamentary; legislative, law-making; regulatory; deliberative. #697.
Precept.-N. precept, direction, instruction, charge; # prescript, prescription; recipe, receipt; golden rule; maxim &c.
496. rule, canon, law, code, corpus juris[Lat], lex scripta[Lat], act, statute, rubric, stage direction, regulation; form, formula, formulary; technicality; canon law; norm. order &c. (command) 741. #698.
498; sharpness, readiness &c. (activity) 682; invention &c.
515; aptness, aptitude; turn for, capacity for, genius for; felicity, capability, curiosa felicitas[Lat], qualification, habilitation. proficient &c.
700. masterpiece, coup de maitre[Fr], chef d'euvre[Fr], tour de force; good stroke &c. (plan) 626.
515; shrewd, sharp, on the ball &c. (intelligent) 498; cunning &c.
702; alive to, up to snuff, not to be caught with chaff; discreet. neat-handed, fine-fingered, nimble-fingered, ambidextrous, sure- footed; cut out for, fitted for. technical, artistic, scientific, daedalian[obs3], shipshape; workman- like, business-like, statesman-like.
Adv. skillfully &c. adj.; well &c.
618; artistically; with skill, with consummate skill; secundum artem[Lat], suo Marte; to the best of one's abilities &c. (exertion) 686.
Unskillfulness.-N. unskillfulness &c. adj.; want of skill &c. 698; incompetence, incompentency[obs3]; inability, infelicity, indexterity[obs3], inexperience; disqualification, unproficiency[obs3]; quackery. folly, stupidity &c.
499; indiscretion &c. (rashness) 863; thoughtlessness &c. (inattention) 458 (neglect) 460; sabotage. mismanagement, misconduct; impolicy[obs3]; maladministration; misrule, misgovernment, misapplication, misdirection, misfeasance; petticoat government. absence of rule, rule of thumb; bungling &c. v.; failure &c.
732; screw loose; too many cooks. blunder &c. (mistake) 495; etourderie gaucherie[Fr], act of folly, balourdise[obs3]; botch, botchery[obs3]; bad job, sad work. sprat sent out to catch a whale, much ado about nothing, wild-goose chase. bungler &c.
V. be unskillful &c. adj.; not see an inch beyond one's nose; blunder, bungle, boggle, fumble, botch, bitch, flounder, stumble, trip; hobble &c.
698; inexpert; bungling &c.v.; awkward, clumsy, unhandy, lubberly, gauche, maladroit; left-handed, heavy-handed; slovenly, slatternly; gawky. adrift, at fault. inapt, unapt; inhabile[Fr]; untractable[obs3], unteachable; giddy &c. (inattentive) 458; inconsiderate &c. (neglectful) 460; stupid &c.
683; incompetent; unqualified, disqualified, ill-qualified; unfit; quackish; raw, green, inexperienced, rusty, out of practice. unaccustomed, unused, untrained &c.
537, uninitiated, unconversant &c. (ignorant) 491[obs3]; shiftless; unstatesmanlike. unadvised; ill-advised, misadvised; ill-devised, ill-imagined, ill- judged, ill-contrived, ill-conducted; unguided, misguided; misconducted, foolish, wild; infelicitous; penny wise and pound foolish &c. (inconsistent) 608.
Phr. one's fingers being all thumbs; the right hand forgets its cunning; il se noyerait dans une goutte d'eau[Fr]; incidit in Scyllam qui vult vitare Charybdim[Lat]; out of the frying pan into the fire; non omnia possumus omnes [Lat][Vergil]. #700.
994. genius; mastermind, master head, master spirit. cunning blade, sharp blade, sharp fellow; jobber; cracksman &c. (thief) 792[obs3]; politician, tactician, strategist. pantologist[obs3], admirable Crichton, Jack of all trades; prodigy of learning. #701.
Phr. il n'a pas invente' la poudre[Fr]; he will never set the Thames on fire; acierta errando[Lat]; aliquis in omnibus nullus in singulis[Lat][obs3]. #702.
Cunning.-N. cunning, craft; cunningness[obs3], craftiness &c. adj.; subtlety, artificiality; maneuvering &c. v.; temporization; circumvention. chicane, chicanery; sharp practice, knavery, jugglery[obs3]; concealment &c.
Ulysses, Machiavel, sly boots, fox, reynard; Scotchman; Jew, Yankee; intriguer, intrigant[obs3]; floater [U.S.], Indian giver [U.S.], keener [U.S.], repeater [U.S. politics].
V. be cunning &c. adj.; have cut one's eyeteeth; contrive &c (plan) 626; live by one's wits; maneuver; intrigue, gerrymander, finesse, double, temporize, stoop to conquer, reculer pour mieux sauter[Fr], circumvent, steal a march upon; overreach &c.
545; throw off one's guard; surprise &c.
508; snatch a verdict; waylay, undermine, introduce the thin end of the wedge; play a deep game, play tricks with; ambiguas in vulgum spargere voces[Lat]; flatter, make things pleasant; have an ax to grind. dodge, sidestep, bob and weave.
Adj. cunning, crafty, artful; skillful &c.
698; subtle, feline, vulpine; cunning as a fox, cunning as a serpent; deep, deep laid; profound; designing, contriving; intriguing &c.v.; strategic, diplomatic, politic, Machiavelian, timeserving[obs3]; artificial; tricky, tricksy[obs3]; wily, sly, slim, insidious, stealthy; underhand &c (hidden) 528; subdolous[obs3]; deceitful &c.
545; slippery as an eel, evasive &c.
623; crooked; arch, pawky[obs3], shrewd, acute; sharp, sharp as a tack, sharp as a needle|!; canny, astute, leery, knowing, up to snuff, too clever by half, not to be caught with chaff. tactful, diplomatic, politic; polite &c.
Adv. cunningly &c. adj.; slyly, slily[obs3], on the sly, by a side wind.
Phr. diamond cut diamond; a' bis ou a blanc[Fr][obs3]; fin contre fin[Fr]; "something is rotten in the state of Denmark" [Hamlet]. #703.
Artlessness.-N. artlessness &c. adj; nature, simplicity; innocence &c.
946; bonhomie, naivete, abandon, candor, sincerity; singleness of purpose, singleness of heart; honesty &c.
939; plain speaking; epanchement[Fr]. rough diamond, matter of fact man; le palais de verite[Fr]; enfant terrible[Fr].
V. be artless &c. adj; look one in the face; wear one's heart upon his sleeves for daws to peck at[obs3]; think aloud; speak out, speak one's mind; be free with one, call a spade a spade.
Adj. artless, natural, pure, native, confiding, simple, lain, inartificial[obs3], untutored, unsophisticated, ingenu[obs3], unaffected, naive; sincere, frank; open, open as day; candid, ingenuous, guileless; unsuspicious, honest &c.
946; Arcadian[obs3]; undesigning, straightforward, unreserved, aboveboard; simple-minded, single-minded; frank-hearted, open-hearted, single-hearted, simple-hearted. free-spoken, plain-spoken, outspoken; blunt, downright, direct, matter of fact, unpoetical[obs3]; unflattering.
Adv. in plain words, in plain English; without mincing the matter; not to mince the matter &c. (affirmation) 535.
Davus sum non Oedipus [Terence]; liberavi animam meam[Lat]; "as frank as rain on cherry blossoms" [E.B.
Phr. "ay there's the rub" [Hamlet]; hic labor hoc opus [Lat][Vergil]; things are come to a pretty pass, ab inconvenienti[Lat]; ad astra per aspera[Lat]; acun chemin de fleurs ne conduit a la gloire[Fr]. #705.
Facility.-N. facility, ease; easiness &c. adj.; capability; feasibility &c. (practicability) 470; flexibility, pliancy &c.
255. plain sailing, smooth sailing, straight sailing; mere child's play, holiday task; cinch [U.S.]. smooth water, fair wind; smooth royal road; clear coast, clear stage; tabula rasa[Lat]; full play &c. (freedom) 748. disencumbrance[obs3], disentanglement; deoppilation|!; permission &c.
Adj. easy, facile; feasible &c (practicable) 470; easily managed, easily accomplished; within reach, accessible, easy of access, for the million, open to. manageable, wieldy; towardly[obs3], tractable; submissive; yielding, ductile; suant[obs3]; pliant &c. (soft) 324; glib, slippery; smooth &c.
Adv. easily &c. adj.; readily, smoothly, swimmingly, on easy terms, single-handed.
Phr. touch and go. 2.
Hindrance.-N. prevention, preclusion, obstruction, stoppage; embolus, embolism [medical]; infarct [medical]; interruption, interception, interclusion|; hindrance, impedition|; retardment[obs3], retardation; embarrassment, oppilation|!; coarctation[obs3], stricture, restriction; restraint &c.
V. hinder, impede, filibuster [U.S.], impedite[obs3], embarrass. keep off, stave off, ward off; obviate; avert, antevert|; turn aside, draw off, prevent, forefend, nip in the bud; retard, slacken, check, let; counteract, countercheck[obs3]; preclude, debar, foreclose, estop[Law]; inhibit &c.
142; traverse, contravene; interrupt, intercept; oppose &c.
708; hedge in, hedge round; cut off; inerclude|. interpose, interfere, intermeddle &c.
Adj. hindering &c. v.; obstructive, obstruent[obs3]; impeditive[obs3], impedient[obs3]; intercipient|; prophylactic &c. (remedial) 662; impedimentary. in the way of, unfavorable; onerous, burdensome; cumbrous, cumbersome; obtrusive. hindered &c v.; windbound[obs3], waterlogged, heavy laden; hard pressed. unassisted &c. (see assist &c.
707); single-handed, alone; deserted &c.
Aid.-N. aid, aidance[obs3]; assistance, help, opitulation|, succor; support, lift, advance, furtherance, promotion; coadjuvancy &c. (cooperation) 709[obs3]. patronage, championship, countenance, favor, interest, advocacy. sustentation, subvention, alimentation, nutrition, nourishment; eutrophy; manna in the wilderness; food &c.
298; means &c. 632. ministry, ministration; subministration[obs3]; accommodation. relief, rescue; help at a dead lift; supernatural aid; deus ex machina[Lat]. supplies, reinforcements, reenforcements[obs3], succors, contingents, recruits; support &c. (physical) 215; adjunct, ally &c. (helper) 711.
648; render a service &c. (utility) 644; conduce &c. (tend) 176.
Adj. aiding &c. v.; auxiliary, adjuvant, helpful; coadjuvant &c.
709[obs3]; subservient, ministrant, ancillary, accessory, subsidiary. at one's beck, at one's beck and call; friendly, amicable, favorable, propitious, well-disposed; neighborly; obliging &c. (benevolent) 906.
Int. help! save us! to the rescue!
Phr. alterum alterius auxilio eget [Lat][Sallust]; "God befriend us as our cause is just" [Henry IV]; at your service. #708.
Opposition.-N.. opposition, antagonism; oppugnancy[obs3], oppugnation[obs3]; impugnation|!; contrariety; contravention; counteraction &c.
179; counterplot. cross fire, undercurrent, head wind. clashing, collision, conflict. competition, two of a trade, rivalry, emulation, race. absence of aid &c.
V. oppose, counteract, run counter to; withstand &c. (resist) 719; control &c. (restrain) 751; hinder &c.
Adj. opposing, opposed &c.v.; adverse, antagonistic; contrary &c.
24; at issue, at war with. unfavorable, unfriendly; hostile, inimical, cross, unpropitious. in hostile array, front to front, with crossed bayonets, at daggers drawn; up in arms; resistant &c.
30; even; quand meme[Fr]; per contra.
Phr. nitor in adversum[Lat]. #709.
Cooperation.-N. cooperation; coadjuvancy[obs3], coadjutancy[obs3]; coagency[obs3], coefficiency[obs3]; concert, concurrence, complicity, participation; union &c.
V. cooperate, concur; coact[obs3], synergize. conduce &c.
Adj. cooperating &c. v.; in cooperation &c.n., in league &c. (party) 712; coadjuvant[obs3], coadjutant[obs3]; dyed in the wool; cooperative; additive; participative; coactive[obs3], synergetic, synergistic. favorable &c.
Adv. as one &c. (unanimously) 488; shoulder to shoulder; synergistically; cooperatively.
Phr. due teste valgono piu che una sola [It]. #710.
Opponent.-N. opponent, antagonist, adversary; adverse party, # opposition; enemy &c.
891; the other side; assailant. oppositionist, obstructive; brawler, wrangler, brangler[obs3], disputant; filibuster [U.S.], obstructionist. malcontent; Jacobin, Fenian; demagogue, reactionist[obs3]. rival, competitor. bete noir[Fr]. #711.
Party.-N. party, faction, side, denomination, communion, set, crew, band. horde, posse, phalanx; family, clan, &c.
166; team; tong. council &c.
Confederates, Conservatives, Democrats, Federalists, Federals, Freemason, Knight Templar; Kuklux, Kuklux Klan, KKK; Liberals, Luddites, Republicans, Socialists, Tories, Whigs &c. staff; dramatis personae[Lat].
V. unite, join; club together &c. (cooperate) 709; cement a party, form a party &c. n.; associate &c. (assemble) 72; enleague[obs3], federalize, go cahoots.
Adj. in league, in partnership, in alliance &c. n. bonded together, banded together, linked &c. (joined) 43- together; embattled; confederated, federative, joint.
Adv. hand in hand, side by side, shoulder to shoulder, en masse, in the same boat. #713.
898; Kilkenny cats; disputant &c.
V. be discordant &c. adj.; disagree, come amiss &c.
24; clash, jar, jostle, pull different ways, conflict, have no measures with, misunderstand one another; live like cat and dog; differ; dissent &c.
489; unreconciled, unpacified; contentious &c.
Phr. quot homines tot sententiae [Lat][Terence]; no love lost between them, non nostrum tantas componere lites [Lat][Vergil]; Mars gravior sub pace latet [Lat][Claudius]. #714.
Concord.-N. concord, accord, harmony, symphony; homologue; agreement &c.
23; sympathy, empathy &c. (love) 897; response; union, unison, unity; bonds of harmony; peace &c.
721; unanimity &c. (assent) 488; league &c.
712; happy family. rapprochement; reunion; amity &c. (friendship) 888; alliance, entente cordiale[Fr], good understanding, conciliation, peacemaker; intercessor, mediator.
Adj. concordant, congenial; agreeing &c.v.; in accord &c. n.; harmonious, united, cemented; banded together &c.
888; fraternal; conciliatory; at one with; of one mind &c. (assent) 488. at peace, in still water; tranquil &c. (pacific) 721.
Adv. with one voice &c. (assent) 488; in concert with, hand in hand; on one's side.
Phr. commune periculum concordiam parit[Lat][obs3]. #715.
Defiance.-N. defiance; daring &. v.; dare; challenge, # cartel|!; threat &c.
742. show fight, show one's teeth, show a bold front; bluster, look big, stand akimbo, beat one's chest; double the fist, shake the fist; threaten &c.
Defense-N. defense, protection, guard, ward; shielding &c.v.; propugnation|, preservation &c.
670; guardianship. area defense; site defense. self-defense, self-preservation; resistance &c.
Adj. defending &c.v.; defensive; mural|!; armed, armed at all points, armed cap-a-pie, armed to the teeth; panoplied[obs3]; iron-plated, ironclad; loopholed, castellated, machicolated[obs3], casemated[obs3]; defended &c.v.; proof against. armored, ballproof|!, bulletproof; hardened.
Adv. defensively; on the defense, on the defensive; in defense; at bay, pro aris et focis[obs3][Lat].
Phr. defense not defiance; Dieu defend le droit [Fr]; fidei defensor [Lat: defender of the faith]. #718.
30; reaction &c. (recoil) 277.
Adj. retaliating &c. v.; retaliatory, retaliative; talionic[obs3].
Adv. in retaliation; en revanche.
Phr. mutato nomine de te fabula narratur [Lat][Horace]; par pari refero [Lat][Terence]; tu quoque[Lat: you too]; you're another; suo sibi gladio hunc jugulo [Lat]; a beau jeu beau retour[Fr]; litem [Lat]. . . lite resolvit [Lat][Horace]. #719.
Resistance.-N. resistance, stand, front, oppugnation[obs3]; oppugnancy[obs3]; opposition &c.
708; renitence[obs3], renitency; reluctation[obs3], recalcitration[obs3]; kicking &c. v. repulse, rebuff. insurrection &c. (disobedience) 742; strike; turn out, lock out, barring out; levee en masse[Fr], Jacquerie; riot &c. (disorder) 59.
V. resist; not submit &c.
Adj. resisting &c.v.; resistive, resistant; refractory &c. (disobedient) 742; recalcitrant, renitent; up in arms. repulsive, repellant. proof against; unconquerable &c. (strong) 159; stubborn, unconquered; indomitable &c. (persevering) 604a; unyielding &c. (obstinate) 606.
Int. hands off! keep off! #720.
Contention.-N. contention, strife; contest, contestation[obs3]; struggle; belligerency; opposition &c.
Adj. contending &c. v.; together by the ears, at loggerheads at war at issue. competitive, rival; belligerent; contentious, combative, bellicose, unpeaceful[obs3]; warlike &c.
901; pugnacious; pugilistic, gladiatorial; palestric[obs3], palestrical[obs3].
Phr. a verbis ad verbera[Lat]; a word and a blow; "a very pretty quarrel as it stands" [Sheridan]; commune periculum concordiam parit[Lat]; lis litem generat[Lat]. #721.
V. arm; raise troops, mobilize troops; raise up in arms; take up the cudgels &c.
Adv. flagrante bello[Lat], in the thick of the fray, in the cannon's mouth; at the sword's point, at the point of the bayonet.
Int. vae victis[Lat]! to arms! to your tents O Israel!
Phr. requiescat in pace[Lat]. #724.
Mediation.-N. mediation, mediatorship[obs3], mediatization[obs3]; intervention, interposition, interference, intermeddling, intercession; arbitration; flag of truce &c.
723; good offices, peace offering; parley, negotiation; diplomatics[obs3], diplomacy; compromise &c.
774. [person who mediates] mediator, arbitrator, intercessor, peacemaker, makepeace[obs3], negotiator, go-between; diplomatist &c. (consignee) 758; moderator; propitiator; umpire.
V. mediate, mediatize[obs3]; intercede, interpose, interfere, intervene; step in, negotiate; meet halfway; arbitrate; magnas componere lites[Lat]. bargain &c.
Submission.-N. submission, yielding; nonresistance; obedience &c.
743. surrender, cession, capitulation, resignation; backdown[obs3]. obeisance, homage, kneeling, genuflexion[obs3], courtesy, curtsy, kowtow, prostration.
Adj. surrendering &c. v.; submissive, resigned, crouching; downtrodden; down on one's marrow bones; on one's bended knee; unresistant, unresisting, nonresisting; pliant &c. (soft) 324; undefended. untenable, indefensible; humble &c.
Phr. have it your own way; it can't be helped; amen &c. (assent) 488; da locum melioribus[Lat]; tempori parendum[Lat]. #726.
Arms.-N. arm, arms; weapon, deadly weapon; armament, armaments, armature; panoply, stand of arms; armor &c. (defense) 717; armory &c. (store) 636; apparatus belli[Lat]. ammunition; powder, powder and shot; cartridge; ball cartridge, cartouche, fireball; "villainous saltpeter" [Hen.
Phr. en flute; nervos belli pecuniam infinitam[Lat]. #728.
53; superstructure, ne plus ultra[Lat], work done, fait accompli[Fr]. elaboration; finality; completeness &c.
Adj. completing, final; concluding, conclusive; crowning &c. v.; exhaustive. done, completed &c. v.; done for, sped, wrought out; highly wrought &c. (preparation) 673; thorough &c.
52; ripe &c. (ready) 673.
Adv. completely &c.(thoroughly) 52; to crown all, out of hand.
Phr. the race is run; actum est[Lat]; finis coronat opus[Lat]; consummatum est[Lat]; c'en est fait[Fr]; it is all over; the game is played out, the bubble has burst; aussitot dit aussitot fait[Fr]; aut non tentaris aut perfice [Lat][Ovid]. #730.
Noncompletion.-N. noncompletion, nonfulfillment; shortcoming # &c.
53; drawn battle, drawn game; work of Penelope. nonperformance, inexecution[obs3]; neglect &c.
460. V. not complete &c.
729; leave unfinished &c. adj., leave undone, drop, put down; neglect &c.
460; let alone, let slip; lose sight of (forget) 506. fall short of &c.
304; do things by halves, parboil, scotch the snake not lull it; hang fire; be slow to; collapse &c.
304. drop out. Adj. not completed &c. v.; incomplete &c.
53; uncompleted, unfinished, unaccomplished, unperformed, unexecuted; sketchy, addle. in progress, in hand; ongoing, going on, proceeding; on one's hands; on the anvil; in the fire, in the oven. parboiled, half-baked. Adv. re infecta[Lat]. #731.
734; triumphant; flushed with success, crowned with success; victorious, on top; set up; in the ascendant; unbeaten &c. (see beat &c. v.); well-spent; felicitous, effective, in full swing.
Adv. successfully &c. adj.; well flying colors, in triumph, swimmingly; a merveille[Fr], beyond all hope; to some purpose, to good purpose; to one's heart's content.
Failure.-N. failure; nonsuccess[obs3], nonfulfillment; dead failure, successlessness[obs3]; abortion, miscarriage; brutum fulmen &c.
V. fail; be unsuccessful &c. adj.; not succeed &c.
304. miss, miss one's aim, miss the mark, miss one's footing, miss stays; slip, trip, stumble; make a slip &c., n. blunder &c.
Adj. unsuccessful, successless[obs3]; failing, tripping &c.v.; at fault; unfortunate &c.
735. abortive, addle, stillborn; fruitless, bootless; ineffectual, ineffective, inconsequential, trifling, nugatory; inefficient &c. (impotent) 158; insufficient &c.
640; unavailing &c. (useless) 645; of no effect. aground, grounded, swamped, stranded, cast away, wrecked, foundered, capsized, shipwrecked, nonsuited[obs3]; foiled; defeated &c.
Adv. unsuccessfully &c. adj.; to little or no purpose, in vain, re infecta[Lat].
Phr. the bubble has burst, "the jig is up", "the game is up" [Cymbeline]; all is lost; the devil to pay; parturiunt montes &c. (disappointment) 509[Lat]; dies infaustus[Lat]; tout est perdu hors l'honneur[Fr]. #733.
Trophy.-N. trophy; medal, prize, palm, award; laurel, # laurels; bays, crown, chaplet, wreath, civic crown; insignia &c.
550; feather in one's cap &c. (honor) 873; decoration &c.
877; garland, triumphal arch, Victoria Cross, Iron Cross. triumph &c. (celebration) 883; flying colors &c. (show) 882. monumentum aere perennius [Lat][obs3][Hor.]. Phr. "for valor." #734.
Prosperity.-N. prosperity, welfare, well-being; affluence &c. (wealth) 803; success &c.
731; thrift, roaring trade; good fortune, smiles of fortune; blessings, godsend. luck; good luck, run of luck; sunshine; fair weather, fair wind; palmy days, bright days, halcyon days; piping times, tide, flood, high tide.
Saturnia regna[Lat], Saturnian age; golden time, golden age; bed of roses, fat city [coll.]; fat of the land, milk and honey, loaves and fishes. made man, lucky dog, enfant gate[Fr], spoiled child of fortune. upstart, parvenu, skipjack[obs3], mushroom.
Adj. prosperous; thriving &c. v.; in a fair way, buoyant; well off, well to do, well to do in the world; set up, at one's ease; rich &c.
Adv. prosperously &c. adj.; swimmingly; as good luck would have it; beyond all hope.
V. be ill off &c. adj.; go hard with; fall on evil, fall on evil days; go on ill; not prosper &c.
Adj. unfortunate, unblest[obs3], unhappy, unlucky; improsperous[obs3], unprosperous; hoodooed [U.S.]; luckless, hapless; out of luck; in trouble, in a bad way, in an evil plight; under a cloud; clouded; ill off, badly off; in adverse circumstances; poor &c.
Mediocrity.-N. moderate circumstances, average circumstances; respectability; middle classes; mediocrity; golden mean &c. (mid-course) 628, (moderation) 174.
Authority.-N. authority; influence, patronage, power, preponderance, credit, prestige, prerogative, jurisdiction; right &c. (title) 924; direction &c.
755; deputy &c.759; permission &c.
V. authorize &c. (permit) 760; warrant &c. (right) 924; dictate &c. (order) 741. be at the head of &c. adj.; hold office, be in office, fill an office; hold master, occupy master, a post master, be master &c.
Adj. at the head, dominant, paramount, supreme, predominant, preponderant, in the ascendant, influential; arbitrary; compulsory &c.
744: stringent. at one's command; in one's power, in one's grasp; under control.
Phr. the gray mare the better horse; "every inch a king" [Lear]. #737a.
Government.-N. government, legal authority, soveriegn, sovereign authority; authority &c.
745; direction &c. 693. [nations] national government, nation, state, country, nation-state, dominion, republic, empire, union, democratic republic; kingdom, principality. [subdivisions of nations] state government[U.S terminology], state; shire[England]; province[Canada]; county[Ireland]; canton[Switzerland]; territory [Australia]; duchy, archduchy, archdukedom[obs3]; woiwodshaft; commonwealth; region &c.
965; cabinet &c. (council) 696; seat of government, seat of authority; headquarters. [Acquisition of authority] accession; installation &c.
737a. be governed by, be in the power of, be a subject of, be a citizen of.
V. run for office, stand for office; campaign, stump; throw one's hat in the ring; announce one's candidacy. Adj. political, partisan.
Money is the mother's milk of politics" [Tip O'Neill]. #738. [Absence of authority] Laxity.-N. laxity; laxness, looseness, slackness; toleration &c. (lenity) 740; freedom &c.
748. anarchy, interregnum; relaxation; loosening &c. v.; remission; dead letter, brutum fulmen[Lat], misrule; license, licentiousness; insubordination &c. (disobedience) 742; lynch law &c. (illegality) 964; nihilism, reign of violence. [Deprivation of power] dethronement, deposition, usurpation, abdication.
Adj. lax, loose; slack; remiss &c. (careless) 460; weak. relaxed; licensed; reinless[obs3], unbridled; anarchical; unauthorized &c. (unwarranted) 925; adespotic[obs3]. #739.
Severity.-N. severity; strictness, harshness &c. adj.; rigor, stringency, austerity; inclemency &c. (pitilessness) 914a; arrogance &c.
885; precisianism[obs3]. arbitrary power; absolutism, despotism; dictatorship, autocracy, tyranny, domineering, oppression; assumption, usurpation; inquisition, reign of terror, martial law; iron heel, iron rule, iron hand, iron sway; tight grasp; brute force, brute strength; coercion &c.
744; strong hand, tight hand. hard lines, hard measure; tender mercies [ironical]; sharp practice; pipe-clay, officialism. tyrant, disciplinarian, precisian[obs3], martinet, stickler, bashaw[obs3], despot, hard master, Draco, oppressor, inquisitor, extortioner, harpy, vulture; accipitres[obs3], birds of prey, raptorials[obs3], raptors[obs3].
V. be -severe &c. adj. assume, usurp, arrogate, take liberties; domineer, bully &c.
744; give no quarter &c. (pitiless) 914a.
Adj. severe; strict, hard, harsh, dour, rigid, stiff, stern, rigorous, uncompromising, exacting, exigent, exigeant[obs3], inexorable, inflexible, obdurate, austere, hard-headed, hard-nosed, hard-shell [U.S.], relentless, Spartan, Draconian, stringent, strait-laced, searching, unsparing, iron- handed, peremptory, absolute, positive, arbitrary, imperative; coercive &c.
744; tyrannical, extortionate, grinding, withering, oppressive, inquisitorial; inclement &c. (ruthless) 914a; cruel &c. (malevolent) 907; haughty, arrogant &c.
Adv. severely &c. adj.; with a high hand, with a strong hand, with a tight hand, with a heavy hand. at the point of the sword, at the point of the bayonet.
Delirant reges plectuntur Achivi[Lat]; manu forti[Lat]; ogni debole ha sempre il suo tiranno[It]. #740.
Lenity.-N. lenity, lenience, leniency; moderation &c.
174; tolerance, toleration; mildness, gentleness; favor, indulgence, indulgency[obs3]; clemency, mercy, forbearance, quarter; compassion &c. 914.
V. be -lenient &c. adj.; tolerate, bear with; parcere subjectis[Lat], give quarter. indulge, allow one to have his own way, spoil.
Adj. lenient; mild, mild as milk; gentle, soft; tolerant, indulgent, easy-going; clement &c. (compassionate) 914; forbearing; long-suffering. #741.
Command.-N. command, order, ordinance, act, fiat, hukm[obs3], bidding, dictum, hest[obs3], behest, call, beck, nod. despatch, dispatch; message, direction, injunction, charge, instructions; appointment, fixture. demand, exaction, imposition, requisition, claim, reclamation, revendication[obs3]; ultimatum &c. (terms) 770; request &c.
Adj. commanding &c. v.; authoritative &c.
737; decretory[obs3], decretive[obs3], decretal[obs3]; callable, jussive[obs3].
Adv. in a commanding tone; by a stroke of the pen, by a dash of the pen; by order, at beat of drum, on the first summons.
Phr. the decree is gone forth; sic volo sic jubeo[Lat]; le Roi le veut[Fr]; boutez en avant[Fr]. #742.
Disobedience.-N. disobedience, insubordination, contumacy; infraction, infringement; violation, noncompliance; nonobservance &c. 773. revolt, rebellion, mutiny, outbreak, rising, uprising, insurrection, emeute[Fr]; riot, tumult &c. (disorder) 59; strike &c.(resistance) 719; barring out; defiance &c.
715. mutinousness &c. adj.; mutineering[obs3]; sedition, treason; high treason, petty treason, misprision of treason; premunire[Lat]; lese majeste[Fr]; violation of law &c.
964; defection, secession. insurgent, mutineer, rebel, revolter, revolutionary, rioter, traitor, quisling, carbonaro[obs3], sansculottes[Fr], red republican, bonnet rouge, communist, Fenian, frondeur; seceder, secessionist, runagate, renegade, brawler, anarchist, demagogue; Spartacus, Masaniello, Wat Tyler, Jack Cade; ringleader.
Adj. disobedient; uncomplying, uncompliant; unsubmissive[obs3], unruly, ungovernable; breachy[obs3], insubordinate, impatient of control, incorrigible; restiff|, restive; refractory, contumacious, recusant &c. (refuse) 764; recalcitrant; resisting &c.
719; lawless, mutinous, seditions, insurgent, riotous. unobeyed[obs3]; unbidden.
Phr. seditiosissimus quisque ignavus [Lat][Tacitus]; "unthread the rude eye of rebellion" [King John]. #743.
749; nonresistance; passiveness, resignation. allegiance, loyalty, fealty, homage, deference, devotion; constancy, fidelity. submissness[obs3], submissiveness; ductility &c. (softness) 324; obsequiousness &c. (servility) 886.
V. be -obedient &c. adj.; obey, bear obedience to; submit &c.
725; comply, answer the helm, come at one's call; do one's bidding, do what one is told, do suit and service; attend to orders, serve faithfully. follow the lead of, follow to the world's end; serve &c.
Adj. obedient; complying, compliant; loyal, faithful, devoted; at one's call, at one's command, at one's orders, at one's beck and call; under beck and call, under control. restrainable; resigned, passive; submissive &c.
725; henpecked; pliant &c. (soft) 324. unresisted[obs3].
Adv. obediently &c. adj.; in compliance with, in obedience to.
Phr. to hear is to obey; as you please, if you please; your wish is my command; as you wish; no sooner said than done. #744.
Compulsion.-N. compulsion, coercion, coaction[obs3], constraint, duress, enforcement, press, conscription. force; brute force, main force, physical force; the sword, ultima ratio[Lat]; club law, lynch law, mob law, arguementum baculinum[obs3], le droit du plus fort[Fr], martial law. restraint &c.
601; force majeure[Fr]; Hobson's choice.
Adj. compelling &c. v.; coercive, coactive[obs3]; inexorable &c.
739; compulsory, compulsatory[obs3]; obligatory, stringent, peremptory. forcible, not to be trifled with; irresistible &c.
601; compelled &c. v.; fain to.
603; nolens volens &c. (of necessity) 601[Lat]; by stress of circumstances, by stress of weather; under press of; de rigueur. with a gun to one's head.
Phr. I'll make him an offer he can't refuse. #745.
Phr. da locum melioribus[Lat]; der Furst ist der erste Diener seines Staats [German: the prince is the first servant of his state]; "lord of thy presence and no land beside" [King John]. #746.
V. serve; wait upon, attend upon, dance attendance upon, pin oneself upon; squire, tend, hang on the sleeve of; chore [U.S.].
877; portfolio. key, signet, seals, talisman; helm; reins &c. (means of restraint) 752. #748.
Freedom.-N. freedom, liberty, independence; license &c. # (permission) 760; facility &c.
750; freeborn; autonomous, freehold, allodial[obs3]; gratis &c.
815; eleutherian[obs3]. unclaimed, going a begging. Adv. freely &c. adj.; ad libitum &c. (at will) 600. Phr. ubi libertas ibi patria[Lat]; free white and twenty-one. #749.
Subjection.-N. subjection; dependence, dependency; subordination; thrall, thralldom, thraldom, enthrallment, subjugation, bondage, serfdom; feudalism, feudality[obs3]; vassalage, villenage; slavery, enslavement, involuntary servitude; conquest. service; servitude, servitorship[obs3]; tendence[obs3], employ, tutelage, clientship[obs3]; liability &c.
177; constraint &c.751; oppression &c. (severity) 739; yoke &c. (means of restraint) 752; submission &c.
725. break in, tame; subject, subjugate; master &c.
731; tread down, tread under foot; weigh down; drag at one's chariot wheels; reduce to subjection, reduce to slavery; enthrall, inthrall[obs3], bethrall[obs3]; enslave, lead captive; take into custody &c. (restrain) 751; rule &c.
737; drive into a corner, hold at the sword's point; keep under; hold in bondage, hold in leading strings, hold in swaddling clothes.
Adj. subject, dependent, subordinate; feudal, feudatory; in subjection to, under control; in leading strings, in harness; subjected, enslaved &c. v.; constrained &c.
Adv. under. Phr. "slaves - in a land of light and law" [Whittier]. #750.
Liberation.-N. liberation, disengagement, release, enlargement, emancipation; disenthrallment[obs3], disenthralment[obs3]; affranchisement[obs3], enfranchisement; manumission; discharge, dismissal. deliverance &c.
672; redemption, extrication, acquittance, absolution; acquittal &c.
V. liberate, free; set free, set clear, set at liberty; render free, emancipate, release; enfranchise, affranchise[obs3]; manumit; enlarge; disband, discharge, disenthrall, disenthral, dismiss; let go, let loose, loose, let out, let slip; cast adrift, turn adrift; deliver &c.
672; absolve &c. (acquit) 970. unfetter &c.
43; loose &c. (disjoin) 44; loosen, relax; unbolt, unbar, unclose, uncork, unclog, unhand, unbind, unchain, unharness, unleash; disengage, disentangle; clear, extricate, unloose. gain one's liberty, obtain one's liberty, acquire one's liberty &c.
748; get rid of, get clear of; deliver oneself from; shake off the yoke, slip the collar; break loose, break prison; tear asunder one's bonds, cast off trammels; escape &c.
Adj. liberated &c. v.; out of harness &c. (free) 748.
Int. unhand me! let me go! #751.
232; isolation (exclusion) 893; penal settlement, penal colony; bilboes, stocks, limbo, quod*[Lat]; calaboose, chauki[obs3], choky[obs3], thana[obs3]; workhouse [U.S.].
Prisoner.-N. prisoner, prisoner of war, POW, captive, inmate, # detainee, hostage, abductee[obs3], detenu[Fr], close prisoner. jail bird, ticket of leave man, chevronne[Fr]. V. stand committed; be imprisoned &c.
751. take prisoner, take hostage (capture) 789. Adj. imprisoned &c.
162; abolish; revoke, repeal, rescind, reverse, retract, recall; abolitionize[obs3]; overrule, override; set aside; disannul, dissolve, quash, nullify, declare null and void; disestablish, disendow[obs3]; deconsecrate. disclaim &c. (deny) 536; ignore, repudiate; recant &c.
Adj. abrogated &c. v.; functus officio[Lat].
Int. get along with you! begone! go about your business! away with! #757.
Resignation.-N. resignation, retirement, abdication, # renunciation, abjuration; abandonment, relinquishment. V. resign; give up, throw up; lay down, throw up the cards, wash one's hands of, abjure, renounce, forego, disclaim, retract; deny &c.
756; desert &c. (relinquish) 624; get rid of &c.
782. abdicate; vacate, vacate one's seat; accept the stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds; retire; tender one's resignation. Adj. abdicant[obs3]. Phr.
Othello's occupation's gone" [Othello]. #758.
Consignee.-N. consignee, trustee, nominee, committee. agent, delegate; commissary, commissioner; emissary, envoy, commissionaire[Fr]; messenger &c.
534. diplomatist, diplomat(e), corps diplomatique[Fr], embassy; ambassador, embassador[obs3]; representative, resident, consul, legate, nuncio, internuncio[obs3], charge d'affaires[Fr], attache. vicegerent &c. (deputy) 759; plenipotentiary. functionary, placeman[obs3], curator; treasurer &c.
801; factor, bailiff, clerk, secretary, attorney, advocate, solicitor, proctor, broker, underwriter, commission agent, auctioneer, one's man of business; factotum &c. (director) 694; caretaker; dalal[obs3], dubash[obs3], garnishee, gomashta[obs3]. negotiator, go-between; middleman; under agent, employe; servant &c.
746; referee, arbitrator &c.. (judge) 967. traveler, bagman, commis-voyageur[Fr], touter[obs3], commercial traveler, drummer [U.S.], traveling man. newspaper correspondent, own correspondent, special correspondent. #759.
Deputy.-N. deputy, substitute, vice, proxy, locum tenens, # badli[obs3], delegate, representative, next friend, surrogate, secondary. regent, viceregent[obs3], vizier, minister, vicar; premier &c. (director) 694; chancellor, prefect, provost, warden, lieutenant, archon, consul, proconsul; viceroy &c. (governor) 745; commissioner &c.
Adj. permitting &c. v.; permissive, indulgent; permitted &c. v.; patent, chartered, permissible, allowable, lawful, legitimate, legal; legalized &c. (law) 963; licit; unforbid[obs3], unforbidden[obs3]; unconditional.
Adv. by leave, with leave, on leave &c. n.; speciali gratia[It]; under favor of; pace; ad libitum &c. (freely) 748, (at will) 600; by all means &c. (willingly) 602; yes &c. (assent) 488.
Phr. avec permissin[Fr]; brevet d'invention [Fr]. #761.
Adj. prohibitive, prohibitory; proscriptive; restrictive, exclusive; forbidding &c. v. prohibited &c. v.; not permitted &c.
760; unlicensed, contraband, impermissible, under the ban of; illegal &c.
964; unauthorized, not to be thought of, uncountenanced, unthinkable, beyond the pale.
Adv. on no account &c. (no) 536.
Int. forbid it heaven! &c. (deprecation) 766. hands off! keep off! hold! stop! desist! cease and desist! avast!
Phr. that will never do; don't you dare; forget it; don't even think about doing it;"go ahead; make my day [ironical, threatening]" [Dirty Harry]. #762.
931; compliance, agreement, concession; yieldance|, yieldingness[obs3]; accession, acknowledgment, acceptance, agnition|. settlement, ratification, confirmation, adjustment. permit &c. (permission) 760; promise &c.
764; turn a willing ear &c. (willingness) 602; jump at; deign, vouchsafe; promise &c.
Adj. consenting &c. v.; squeezable; agreed &c. (assent) 488; unconditional.
OK, yes &c. (assent) 488; by all means &c. (willingly) 602; no problem; if you please, as you please; be it so, so be it, well and good, of course; please do; don't hesitate.
Phr. chi tace accousente[It][obs3]. #763.
Offer.-N. offer, proffer, presentation, tender, bid, overture; proposal, proposition; motion, invitation; candidature; offering &c. (gift) 784.
V. offer, proffer, present, tender; bid; propose, move; make a motion, make advances; start; invite, hold out, place in one's way, put forward. hawk about; offer for sale &c.
796; press &c. (request) 765; lay at one's feet. offer oneself, present oneself; volunteer, come forward, be a candidate; stand for, bid for; seek; be at one's service; go a begging; bribe &c. (give) 784.
Adj. offering, offered &c. v.; in the market, for sale, to let, disengaged, on hire. #764.
Refusal.-N. refusal, rejection; noncompliance, incompliance[obs3]; denial; declining &c. v.; declension; declinature[obs3]; peremptory refusal, flat refusal, point blank refusal; repulse, rebuff; discountenance. recusancy, abnegation, protest, disclaimer; dissent &c.
Adj. refusing &c. v.; restive, restiff|; recusant; uncomplying, unconsenting; not willing to hear of, deaf to. refused &c. v.; ungranted, out of the question, not to be thought of, impossible. Adv. no &c.
536; on no account, not for the world; no thank you, thanks but no thanks.
Phr. non possumus[Lat]; your humble servant[ironically]; bien oblige[Fr]; not on your life [U.S.]; no way; not even if you beg on your knees. #765.
Adj. requesting &c. v.; precatory[obs3]; suppliant, supplicant, supplicatory; postulant; obsecratory[obs3]. importunate, clamorous, urgent; cap in hand; on one's knees, on one's bended knees, on one's marrowbones.
Adv. prithee, do, please, pray; be so good as, be good enough; have the goodness, vouchsafe, will you, I pray thee, if you please.
Int. for God's sake! for heaven's sake! for goodness' sake! for mercy's sake!
765). Int. cry you mercy!
God forbid! forbid it Heaven!
Heaven forefend, Heaven forbid! far be it from! hands off! &c. (prohibition) 761; please don't. #767.
Promise.-N. promise, undertaking, word, troth, plight, pledge, parole, word of honor, vow; oath &c. (affirmation) 535; profession, assurance, warranty, guarantee, insurance, obligation; contract &c. 769; stipulation. engagement, preengagement; affiance; betroth, betrothal, betrothment.
769; attest &c. (bear witness) 467. hold out an expectation; contract an obligation; become bound to, become sponsor for; answer for, be answerable for; secure; give security &c.
771; underwrite. adjure, administer an oath, put to one's oath, swear a witness.
Adj. promising &c. v.; promissory; votive; under hand and seal, upon oath. promised &c. v.; affianced, pledged, bound; committed, compromised; in for it.
Adv. as one's head shall answer for.
Phr. in for a penny in for a pound; ex voto[Lat]; gage d'amour. #768a.
Release from engagement.-N. release &c. (liberation) 750. # Adj. absolute; unconditional &c. (free) 748. #769.
787. Phr. bonis avibus[Lat]; "gone where the woodbine twineth". #772.
Observance.-N. observance, performance, compliance, acquiescence, concurrence; obedience &c.
743; fulfillment, satisfaction, discharge; acquittance, acquittal. adhesion, acknowledgment; fidelity &c. (probity) 939; exact &c.
Adj. observant, faithful, true, loyal; honorable &c.
939; true as the dial to the sun, true as the needle to the pole; punctual, punctilious; literal &c. (exact) 494; as good as one's word.
Phr. ignoscito saepe alteri nunquam tibi[Lat]; tempori parendum[Lat]; "to God, thy country, and thy friend be true" [Vaughan]. #773.
772; evasion, # inobservance, failure, omission, neglect, laches[Law], laxity, informality. infringement, infraction; violation, transgression; piracy. retraction, retractation[obs3], repudiation, nullification; protest; forfeiture. lawlessness; disobedience &c.
Compromise.-N. compromise, commutation, composition; middle term, mezzo termine[It]; compensation &c.
30; abatement of differences, adjustment, mutual concession.
Acquisition.-N. acquisition; gaining &c. v.; obtainment; procuration[obs3], procurement; purchase, descent, inheritance; gift &c.
784. recovery, retrieval, revendication[obs3], replevin[Law], restitution &c.
803. subreption[obs3][Fraudulent acquisition]; obreption[obs3]; stealing &c.
789. get back, recover, regain, retrieve, revendicate[obs3], replevy[Law], redeem, come by one's own. come by, come in for; receive &c.
638. be lost; lapse. Adj. losing &c. v.; not having &c.
777a. shorn of, deprived of; denuded, bereaved, bereft, minus, cut off; dispossessed &c.
789; rid of, quit of; out of pocket. lost &c. v.; long lost; irretrievable &c. (hopeless) 859; off one's hands. Int. farewell to! adieu to. #777.
Possession.-N. possession, seizin[Law], seisin[Law]; ownership &c.
V. possess, have, hold, occupy, enjoy; be possessed of &c. adj.; have in hand &c. adj.; own &c.
Phr. entbehre gern was du nicht hast[Ger]; meum et tuum[Lat]; tuum est[Lat]. #777a.
187; exception, # immunity, privilege, release. V. not have &c.
777; be without &c. adj.; excuse. Adj. exempt from, devoid of, without, unpossessed of[obs3], unblest with[obs3]; immune from. not having &c.
633. parcels, appurtenances. impedimenta; luggage, baggage; bag and baggage; pelf; cargo, lading. rent roll; income &c. (receipts) 810; maul and wedges [U.S.]. patent, copyright; chose in action; credit &c.
777; be the possessor &c.
779 of; own; have for one's own, have for one's very own; come in for, inherit. savor of the realty. be one's property &c. n.; belong to; appertain to, pertain to.
Adj. one's own; landed, predial[obs3], manorial, allodial[obs3]; free lease-hold, copy lease-hold; feudal, feodal[obs3].
Relinquishment.-N. relinquishment, abandonment &c. (of a course) 624; renunciation, expropriation|!, dereliction; cession, surrender, dispensation; quitclaim deed; resignation &c.757; riddance. derelict &c. adj.; foundling; jetsam, waif. discards, culls, rejects; garbage, refuse, rubbish.
Adj. relinquished &c. v.; cast off, derelict; unowned, unappropriated, unculled; left &c. (residuary) 40. Int. away with! 2.
Transfer.-N. transfer, conveyance, assignment, alienation, # abalienation[obs3]; demise, limitation; conveyancing[obs3]; transmission &c. (transference) 270; enfeoffment[obs3], bargain and sale, lease and release; exchange &c. (interchange) 148; barter &c.
789; substitute &c. 147. Adj. alienable, negotiable. Phr. estate coming into possession. #784.
807; render, impart, communicate. concede, cede, yield, part with, shed, cast; spend &c.
763; sacrifice, immolate. Adj. giving &c. v.; given &c. v.; allowed, allowable; concessional[obs3]; communicable; charitable, eleemosynary, sportulary|, tributary; gratis &c.
815; donative[obs3]. Phr. auctor pretiosa facit[Lat]; ex dono[Lat]; res est ingeniosa dare [Lat][Ovid]. #785.
Receiving.-N. receiving &c. v.; acquisition &c.
775; reception # &c. (introduction) 296; suscipiency|!, acceptance, admission. recipient, accipient[obs3]; assignee, devisee; legatee, legatary[obs3]; grantee, feoffee[obs3], donee[Fr], releasee[Law], relessee[obs3], lessee; receiver. sportulary|, stipendiary; beneficiary; pensioner, pensionary[obs3]; almsman[obs3]. income &c. (receipt) 810. V. receive; take &c.
784 to one. Adj. receiving &c. v.; recipient, suscipient|!. received &c. v.; given &c.
784; secondhand. not given, unbestowed &c. (see give, bestow &c.
44. partition, assign, appropriate, appoint. come in for one's share &c. (participate) 778. Adj. apportioning &c. v.; respective. Adv. respectively, each to each. #787.
Taking.-N. taking &c. v.; reception &c. (taking in) 296; deglutition &c. (taking food) 298; appropriation, prehension, prensation|; capture, caption; apprehension, deprehension|; abreption|, seizure, expropriation, abduction, ablation; subtraction, withdrawal &c.
38; abstraction, ademption[obs3]; adrolepsy|!. dispossession; deprivation, deprivement[obs3]; bereavement; divestment; disherison[obs3]; distraint, distress; sequestration, confiscation; eviction &c.
297. rapacity, rapaciousness, extortion, vampirism; theft &c.791. resumption; reprise, reprisal; recovery &c.
775. clutch, swoop, wrench; grip &c. (retention) 781; haul, take, catch; scramble. taker, captor. [Geol: descent of one of the earth's crustal plates under another plate] subduction.
Adj. taking &c.v.; privative[obs3], prehensile; predaceous, predal[obs3], predatory, predatorial[obs3]; lupine, rapacious, raptorial; ravenous; parasitic. bereft &c.
Adv. at one fell swoop.
Phr. give an inch and take an ell. #790.
660. Phr. suum cuique[Lat]. #791.
545; larceny, petty larceny, grand larceny, shoplifting. thievishness, rapacity, kleptomania, Alsatia[obs3], den of Cacus, den of thieves. blackmail, extortion, shakedown, Black Hand [U.S.]. [person who commits theft] thief &c.
Dillinger[famous thieves], Al Capone; Robin Hood. #793.
Booty.-N. booty, spoil, plunder, prize, loot, swag*, pickings; spolia opima[Lat], prey; blackmail; stolen goods.
Barter.-N. barter, exchange, scorse|, truck system; # interchange &c.
Sale.-N. sale, vent, disposal; auction, roup, Dutch auction; # outcry, vendue[obs3]; custom &c. (traffic) 794. vendibility, vendibleness[obs3]. seller; vender, vendor; merchant &c.
797; auctioneer. V. sell, vend, dispose of, effect a sale; sell over the counter, sell by auction &c. n.; dispense, retail; deal in &c.
794; sell off, sell out; turn into money, realize; bring to the hammer, bring under the hammer, put up to auction, put up for auction; offer for sale, put up for sale; hawk, bring to market; offer &c.
763; undersell. let; mortgage &c.(security) 771. Adj. under the hammer, on the market, for sale. salable, marketable, vendible; unsalable &c., unpurchased[obs3], unbought; on one's hands. Phr. chose qui plait est a demi vendue[obs3][Fr]. #797.
795; seller &c.796; bear, bull. concern; firm &c. (partnership) 712. #798.
Merchandise.-N. merchandise, ware, commodity, effects, goods, article, stock, product, produce, staple commodity; stock in trade &c. (store) 636; cargo &c. (contents) 190. #799.
V. speculate, invest, trade, trade stocks, play the market; buy long, sell short, take a position, straddle; take a plunge, plunge in, take a flier [coll.]. #799b.
Securities.-N. securities, stocks, common stock, preferred # stock, bonds, puts, calls, options, option contract, warrants, commercial paper, bearer bond, tax-exempt bond, callable bond, convertable bond[obs3]. share, stock certificate; coupon, bond coupon. liquid assets. 4.
Money.-N. money, legal tender; money matters, money market; finance; accounts &c.
811; funds, treasure; capital, stock; assets &c.(property) 780; wealth &c.
Adj. monetary, pecuniary, crumenal|, fiscal, financial, sumptuary, numismatic, numismatical[obs3]; sterling; nummary[obs3].
Treasurer.-N. treasurer; bursar, bursary; purser, purse bearer; cash keeper, banker; depositary; questor[obs3], receiver, steward, trustee, accountant, Accountant General, almoner, liquidator, paymaster, cashier, teller; cambist[obs3]; money changer &c. (merchant) 797. financier.
Secretary of the Treasury; Chancellor of the Exchequer, minister of finance. #802.
Treasury.-N. treasury, bank, exchequer, fisc, hanaper[obs3]; cash register, kutcherry[obs3], bursary; strong box, strong hold, strong room; coffer; chest &c.(receptacle) 191; safe; bank vault; depository &c.
636; till, tiller; purse; money bag, money box; porte-monnaie[Fr]. purse strings; pocket, breeches pocket. sinking fund; stocks; public stocks, public funds, public securities, parliamentary stocks, parliamentary funds, parliamentary securities; Consols, credit mobilier[Fr]; bonds. #803.
Wealth.-N. wealth, riches, fortune, handsome fortune, opulence, affluence; good circumstances, easy circumstances; independence; competence &c. (sufficiency) 639; solvency. provision, livelihood, maintenance; alimony, dowry; means, resources, substance; property &c.
780; command of money. income &c.
Debt.-N. debt, obligation, liability, indebtment[obs3], debit, # score. bill; check; account (credit) 805. arrears, deferred payment, deficit, default, insolvency &c. (nonpayment) 808; bad debt. interest; premium; usance[obs3], usury; floating debt, floating capital. debtor, debitor[obs3]; mortgagor; defaulter &c.
801. pay cash, pay cash on the barrelhead.
Adj. paying &c. paid &c. v.; owing nothing, out of debt, all straight; unowed[obs3], never indebted.
Adv. to the tune of; on the nail, money down. #808.
Nonpayment-N. nonpayment; default, defalcation; protest, # repudiation; application of the sponge|!; whitewashing. insolvency, bankruptcy, failure; insufficiency &c.
640; run upon a bank; overdrawn account. waste paper bonds; dishonored bills, protested bills; bogus check, bogus cheque, rubber check. bankrupt, insolvent, debtor, lame duck, man of straw, welsher, stag, defaulter, levanter|!. V. not pay &c.
806; behindhand, in arrear[obs3], behind in payments, in arrears; beggared &c. (poor) 804; unable to make both ends meet, minus; worse than nothing; worthless. insolvent, bankrupt, in the gazette, gazetted. unpaid &c. (outstanding) 806; gratis &c.
785; take money; draw from, derive from; acquire &c. 775; take &c.
789. bring in, yield, afford, pay, return; accrue &c. (be received from) 785. Adj. receiving, received &c. v.; profitable &c. (gainful) 775. #811.
801; accounting party; chartered accountant, certified accountant; accounting firm, auditing firm.
Adj. monetary &c.800; accountable, accounting. #812.
Price.-N. price, amount, cost, expense, prime cost, charge, figure; demand, damage; fare, hire, wages &c. (remuneration) 973; value &c.
812a. dues, duty, toll, tax, impost, cess[obs3], sess[obs3], tallage[obs3], levy; abkari[obs3]; capitation tax, poll tax; doomage [obs3][U.S.], likin[obs3]; gabel[obs3], gabelle[obs3]; gavel, octroi[obs3], custom, excise, assessment, benevolence, tithe, tenths, exactment[obs3], ransom, salvage, tariff; brokerage, wharfage, freightage. bill &c. (account) 811; shot.
Adj. priced &c. v.; to the tune of, ad valorem; dutiable; mercenary, venal.
Worthlessness-N. {ant. to 812a} worthlessness, # valuelessness[obs3]; lack of value; uselessness. [low value] cheapness, shoddiness; low quality, poor quality. [worthless item] trash, garbage. Adj. worthless, valueless; useless. [of low value] cheap, shoddy; slapdash. inexpensive &c.
815. Phr. not worth the paper it's printed on, not worth a sou. #813.
Liberality.-N. liberality, generosity, munificence; bounty, bounteousness, bountifulness; hospitality; charity &c. (beneficence) 906.
V. be liberal &c.adj.; spend freely, bleed freely; shower down upon; open one's purse strings &c. (disburse) 809; spare no expense, give carte blanche[Fr].
Adj. liberal, free, generous; charitable &c. (beneficent) 906; hospitable; bountiful, bounteous; handsome; unsparing, ungrudging; unselfish; open handed, free handed, full handed; open hearted, large hearted, free hearted; munificent, princely. overpaid.
Phr. "handsome is that handsome does" [Goldsmith]. #817.
Economy.-N. economy, frugality; thrift, thriftiness; care, # husbandry, good housewifery, savingness[obs3], retrenchment. savings; prevention of waste, save-all; cheese parings and candle ends; parsimony &c.
Greed [excessive desire]-N. covetousness, ravenousness &c. # adj.; venality, avidity, cupidity; acquisitiveness (acquisition) 775; desire &c.
Prodigality.-N. prodigality, prodigence|; unthriftiness[obs3], waste; profusion, profuseness; extravagance; squandering &c. v.; malversation. prodigal; spendthrift, waste thrift; losel[obs3], squanderer[obs3], locust; high roller* [U.S.].
Adj. prodigal, profuse, thriftless, unthrifty, improvident, wasteful, losel[obs3], extravagant, lavish, dissipated, overliberal; full-handed &c. (liberal) 816. penny wise and pound foolish.
Adv. with an unsparing hand; money burning a hole in one's pocket.
Phr. amor nummi [Latin]; facile largiri de alieno[Lat]; wie gewonnen so zerronnen [German]; les fous font les festins et les sages les mangent [French]; "spendthrift alike of money and of wit" [Cowper]; "squandering wealth was his peculiar art" [Dryden]. #819.
Parsimony.-N. parsimony, parcity|; parsimoniousness[obs3], stinginess &c. adj.; stint; illiberality, tenacity. avarice, greed &c. 817a. miser, niggard, churl, screw, skinflint, crib, codger, muckworm[obs3], scrimp, lickpenny[obs3], hunks, curmudgeon, Harpagon, harpy, extortioner, Jew, usurer; Hessian [U.S.]; pinch fist, pinch penny.
Adv. with a sparing hand.
Phr. desunt inopioe multa avaritiae omnia [Latin][Syrus]; "hoards after hoards his rising raptures fill" [Goldsmith]; "the unsunn'd heaps of miser's treasures" [Milton]. CLASS VI WORDS RELATING TO THE SENTIMENT AND MORAL POWERS SECTION I.
V. have affections, possess affections &c. n.; be of a character &c. n.; be affected &c. adj.; breathe.
Phr. "affection is a coal that must be cool'd else suffer'd it will set the heart on fire" [Venus and Adonis]. #821.
315; be agitated, be excited &c.
824; look blue, look black; wince; draw a deep breath. impress &c. (excite the feelings) 824.
82; devoured by; wrought up &c. (excited) 824; struck all of a heap; rapt; in a quiver &c. n.; enraptured &c.
Adv. heart and soul, from the bottom of one's heart, ab imo pectore[Lat], at heart, con amore[It], heartily, devoutly, over head and ears, head over heels.
Sensibility.-N. sensibility, sensibleness, sensitiveness; moral sensibility; impressibility, affectibility[obs3]; susceptibleness, susceptibility, susceptivity[obs3]; mobility; vivacity, vivaciousness; tenderness, softness; sentimental, sentimentality; sentimentalism. excitability &c.
375. sore point, sore place; where the shoe pinches.
Adj. sensible, sensitive; impressible, impressionable; susceptive, susceptible; alive to, impassionable[obs3], gushing; warm hearted, tender hearted, soft hearted; tender as a chicken; soft, sentimental, romantic; enthusiastic, highflying[obs3], spirited, mettlesome, vivacious, lively, expressive, mobile, tremblingly alive; excitable &c.
825; oversensitive, without skin, thin-skinned; fastidious &c.
Adv. sensibly &c. adj; to the quick, to the inmost core.
Phr. mens aequa in arduis[Lat]; pour salt in the wound. #823.
863; callousness; heart of stone, stock and stone, marble, deadness. torpor, torpidity; obstupefaction|, lethargy, coma, trance, vegetative state; sleep &c.
683; suspended animation; stupor, stupefaction; paralysis, palsy; numbness &c. (physical insensibility) 376. neutrality; quietism, vegetation.
V. be insensible &c. adj.; have a rhinoceros hide; show insensibility &c. n.; not mind, not care, not be affected by; have no desire for &c.
376; stupefied, chloroformed, drugged, stoned; palsy-stricken. indifferent, lukewarm; careless, mindless, regardless; inattentive &c.
460; disregarding. unconcerned, nonchalant, pococurante[obs3], insouciant, sans souci[Fr]; unambitious &c.
866. unaffected, unruffled, unimpressed, uninspired, unexcited, unmoved, unstirred, untouched, unshocked[obs3], unstruck[obs3]; unblushing &c. (shameless) 885; unanimated; vegetative. callous, thick-skinned, hard-nosed, pachydermatous, impervious; hardened; inured, casehardened; steeled against, proof against; imperturbable &c. (inexcitable) 826[obs3]; unfelt.
Adj. excited &c. v.; wrought up, up the qui vive[Fr], astir, sparkling; in a quiver &c.
173; fierceness &c. adj.; rage, fury, furor, furore[obs3], desperation, madness, distraction, raving, delirium; phrensy[obs3], frenzy, hysterics; intoxication; tearing passion, raging passion; anger &c.
900. fascination, infatuation, fanaticism; Quixotism, Quixotry; tete montee[Fr].
V. be impatient &c. adj.; not be able to bear &c.
826; bear ill, wince, chafe, champ a bit; be in a stew &c. n.; be out of all patience, fidget, fuss, not have a wink of sleep; toss on one's pillow. lose one's temper &c.
725; resignation; sufferance, supportance[obs3], endurance, longsufferance[obs3], forbearance; longanimity[obs3]; fortitude; patience of Job, patience "on a monument" [Twelfth Night], patience "sovereign o'er transmuted ill" [Johnson]; moderation; repression of feelings, subjugation of feeling; restraint &c.
751. tranquillization &c. (moderation) 174[obs3].
751 check oneself. compose, appease &c. (moderate)174; propitiate; repress &c. (restrain) 751; render insensible &c.
725; tame; content, resigned, chastened, subdued, lamblike[obs3]; gentle as a lamb; suaviter in modo[Lat]; mild as mothers milk; soft as peppermint; armed with patience, bearing with, clement, long-suffering.
Adv. "like patience on a monument smiling at grief" [Twelfth Night]; aequo animo[Lat], in cold blood &c.
823; more in sorrow than in anger.
Int. patience! and shuffle the cards.
PERSONAL AFFECTIONS[1] [1] Or those which concern one's own state of feeling. 1.
Pleasure.-N. pleasure, gratification, enjoyment, fruition; oblectation, delectation, delection[obs3]; relish, zest; gusto &c. (physical pleasure) 377; satisfaction &c. (content) 831; complacency. well-being; good &c.
618; snugness, comfort, ease; cushion &c.
215; sans souci[French:without worry], mind at ease. joy, gladness, delight, glee, cheer, sunshine; cheerfulness &c.
836. treat, refreshment; amusement &c.
829; feel pleasure, experience pleasure &c. n.; joy; enjoy oneself, hug oneself; be in clover &c.
377, be in elysium &c.
981; tread on enchanted ground; fall into raptures, go into raptures. feel at home, breathe freely, bask in the sunshine. be pleased &c.
829 with; receive pleasure, derive pleasure &c. n. from; take pleasure &c. n. in; delight in, rejoice in, indulge in, luxuriate in; gloat over &c. (physical pleasure) 377; enjoy, relish, like; love &c.
897; take to, take a fancy to; have a liking for; enter into the spirit of. take in good part. treat oneself to, solace oneself with.
981, in raptures, in ecstasies, in a transport of delight. comfortable &c. (physical pleasure) 377; at ease; content &c.
831; sans souci[Fr]. overjoyed, entranced, enchanted; enraptures; enravished[obs3]; transported; fascinated, captivated. with a joyful face, with sparkling eyes. pleasing &c.
829; ecstatic, beatic[obs3]; painless, unalloyed, without alloy, cloudless.
Adv. happily &c. adj.; with pleasure &c. (willingfully) 602[obs3]; with glee &c. n..
Pain.-N. mental suffering, pain, dolor; suffering, sufferance; ache, smart &c. (physical pain) 378; passion. displeasure, dissatisfaction, discomfort, discomposure, disquiet; malaise; inquietude, uneasiness, vexation of spirit; taking; discontent &c.
859; break one's heart; weigh upon the heart &c. (inflict pain) 830.
Adj. in pain, in a state of pain, full of pain &c. n.; suffering &c. v.; pained, afflicted, worried, displeased &c.
830; aching, griped, sore &c. (physical pain) 378; on the rack, in limbo; between hawk and buzzard. uncomfortable, uneasy; ill at ease; in a taking, in a way; disturbed; discontented &c. 832; out of humor &c.
648; manna in the wilderness, land flowing with milk and honey; bittersweet; fair weather. treat; regale &c. (physical pleasure) 377; dainty; titbit[obs3], tidbit; nuts, sauce piquante[Fr].
V. cause pleasure, produce pleasure, create pleasure, give pleasure, afford pleasure, procure pleasure, offer pleasure, present pleasure, yield pleasure &c.
827. please, charm, delight, becharm[obs3], imparadise[obs3]; gladden &c. (make cheerful) 836; take, captivate, fascinate; enchant, entrance, enrapture, transport, bewitch; enravish[obs3]. bless, beatify; satisfy; gratify, desire; &c.
394; luxurious, voluptuous; sensual &c.
377. [of people] attractive &c.
615; inviting, prepossessing, engaging; winning, winsome; taking, fascinating, captivating, killing; seducing, seductive; heart-robbing, alluring, enticing; appetizing &c. (exciting) 824; cheering &c.
836; bewitching; enchanting, entrancing, enravishing[obs3]. charming; delightful, felicitous, exquisite; lovely &c. (beautiful) 845; ravishing, rapturous; heartfelt, thrilling, ecstatic; beatic[obs3]; beatific; seraphic; empyrean; elysian &c. (heavenly) 981. palmy, halcyon, Saturnian.
929; "head and front of one's offending" [Othello]. infestation, molestation; malignity &c. (malevolence) 907. V. cause pain, occasion pain, give pain, bring pain, induce pain, produce pain, create pain, inflict pain &c.
846. sharp, acute, sore, severe, grave, hard, harsh, cruel, biting, caustic; cutting, corroding, consuming, racking, excruciating, searching, grinding, grating, agonizing; envenomed; catheretic[obs3], pyrotic[Med]. ruinous, disastrous, calamitous, tragical; desolating, withering; burdensome, onerous, oppressive; cumbrous, cumbersome.
Adv. painfully &c. adj.; with pain &c.
Content.-N. content, contentment, contentedness; complacency, satisfaction, entire satisfaction, ease, heart's ease, peace of mind; serenity &c.
836; ray of comfort; comfort &c. (well- being) 827. reconciliation; resignation &c. (patience) 826. [person who is contented] waiter on Providence.
826; go down, go down well, go down with; do; be OK.
Adj. content, contented; satisfied &c. v.; at ease, at one's ease, at home; with the mind at ease, sans souci[Fr], sine cura[Lat], easygoing, not particular; conciliatory; unrepining[obs3], of good comfort; resigned &c. (patient) 826; cheerful &c.
836. unafflicted, unvexed[obs3], unmolested, unplagued[obs3]; serene &c. 826; at rest, snug, comfortable; in one's element. satisfactory, tolerable, good enough, OK, all right, acceptable.
Adv. contently[obs3], contentedly, to one's heart's content; a la bonne heure[Fr]; all for the best.
Int. amen &c. (assent) 488; very well, all the better, so much the better, well and good; it will do, that will do; it cannot be helped.
Greene]; "their wants but few their wishes all confined" [Goldsmith]; might as well relax and enjoy it. #832.
Discontent.-N. discontent, discontentment; dissatisfaction; dissent &c.
489. disappointment, mortification; cold comfort; regret &c.
833; repining, taking on &c. v.; heart-burning, heart-grief; querulousness &c. (lamentation) 839; hypercriticism. inquietude, vexation of spirit, soreness; worry, concern, fear &c.
860. [person who is discontented] malcontent, grumbler, growler, croaker, dissident, dissenter, laudator temporis acti[Lat]; censurer, complainer, fault-finder, murmerer[obs3]. cave of Adullam[obs3], indignation meeting, "winter of our discontent" [Henry VI]; "with what I most enjoy contented least" [Shakespeare].
V. be discontented &c. adj.; quarrel with one's bread and butter; repine; regret &c.
839. cause discontent &c. n.; dissatisfy, disappoint, mortify, put out, disconcert; cut up; dishearten.
Adj. discontented; dissatisfied &c. v.; unsatisfied, ungratified; dissident; dissentient &c.
489; malcontent, malcontented, exigent, exacting, hypercritical. repining &c. v.; regretful &c.
Int. so much the worse!
Phr. that won't do, that will never do, it will never do; curtae nescio quid semper abest rei [Lat][Horace]; ne Jupiter Quidem omnibus placet[Lat][obs3]; "poor in abundance, famished at a feast" [Young]. #833.
Regret.-N. regret, repining; homesickness, nostalgia; mal du # pays, maladie[Fr]; lamentation &c..
950. bitterness, heartburning[obs3]. recrimination (accusation) 938. laudator temporis acti &c. (discontent) 832[Lat]. V. regret, deplore; bewail &c. (lament) 839; repine, cast a longing lingering look behind; rue, rue the day; repent &c.
Relief.-N. relief; deliverance; refreshment &c.
689; # easement, softening, alleviation, mitigation, palliation, soothing, lullaby. solace, consolation, comfort, encouragement. lenitive, restorative &c. (remedy) 662; cushion &c.
660. Phr. "here comes a man of comfort" [Measure for Measure]. #835.
Aggravation.-N. aggravation, worsening, heightening; # exacerbation; exasperation; overestimation &c.
838; merrymaking &c. (amusement) 840; heyday, rejoicing &c.
838; marriage bell. nepenthe, Euphrosyne[obs3], sweet forgetfulness. optimism &c. (hopefulness) 858; self complacency; hedonics[obs3], hedonism.
838; carol, chirrup, lilt; frisk, rollick, give a loose to mirth. cheer, enliven, elate, exhilarate, gladden, inspirit, animate, raise the spirits, inspire; perk up; put in good humor; cheer the heart, rejoice the heart; delight &c. (give pleasure) 829.
838; cock-a- hoop. cheering, inspiriting, exhilarating; cardiac, cardiacal[obs3]; pleasing &c.
Int. never say die! come! cheer up! hurrah! &c.
838; "hence loathed melancholy!" begone dull care! away with melancholy!
Phr. "a merry heart goes all the day" [A winter's Tale]; "as merry as the day is long" [Much Ado]; ride si sapis [Lat][Martial]. #837.
859; cave of despair, cave of Trophonius demureness &c. adj.; gravity, solemnity; long face, grave face. hypochondriac, seek sorrow, self-tormentor, heautontimorumenos[obs3], malade imaginaire[Fr], medecin tant pis[Fr]; croaker, pessimist; mope, mopus[obs3]. [Cause of dejection] affliction &c.
830; sorry sight; memento mori[Lat]; damper, wet blanket, Job's comforter.
Adj. cheerless, joyless, spiritless; uncheerful, uncheery[obs3]; unlively[obs3]; unhappy &c.
Adv. with a long face, with tears in one's eyes; sadly &c. adj.
896. smile, simper, smirk, grin; broad grin, sardonic grin. laughter (amusement) 840. risibility; derision &c.
836. laughable &c. (ludicrous) 853. Int. hurrah!
915. mourning, weeds, willow, cypress, crape, deep mourning; sackcloth and ashes; lachrymatory[obs3]; knell &c.
363; deep death song, dirge, coronach[obs3], nenia[obs3], requiem, elegy, epicedium[obs3]; threne[obs3]; monody, threnody; jeremiad, jeremiade|!; ullalulla[obs3]. mourner; grumbler &c. (discontent) 832; Noobe; Heraclitus.
O dear! ah me! woe is me! lackadaisy[obs3]! well a day! lack a day! alack a day[obs3]! wellaway[obs3]! alas the day!
O tempora O mores[obs3]! what a pity! miserabile dictu[Lat]!
O lud lud[obs3]! too true!
Amusement.-N. amusement, entertainment, recreation, fun, game, fun and games; diversion, divertissement; reaction, solace; pastime, passetemps[Fr], sport; labor of love; pleasure &c.
685. fun, frolic, merriment, jollity; joviality, jovialness[obs3]; heyday; laughter &c.
838; jocosity, jocoseness[obs3]; drollery, buffoonery, tomfoolery; mummery, pleasantry; wit &c.
416. sportsman, gamester, reveler; master of ceremonies, master of revels; pompom girl[obs3]; arbiter elegantiarum[Lat]; arbiter bibendi[Lat], archer, fan [U.S.], toxophilite[obs3], turfman[obs3].
Adj. amusing, entertaining, diverting &c. v.; recreational, recreative, lusory[obs3]; pleasant &c. (pleasing) 829; laughable &c. (ludicrous) 853; witty &c.
Adv. "on the light fantastic toe" [Milton], at play, in sport.
Int. vive la bagatelle[Fr]! vogue la galere[Fr]!
Phr. deus nobis haec otia fecit[Lat]; dum vivimus vivamus[Lat]; dulce est desipere in loco [Lat][Horace]; "(every room) hath blazed with lights and brayed with minstrelsy" [Timon of Athens]; misce stullitiam consiliis brevem [Lat][Horace]. #841.
Weariness.-N. weariness, defatigation|; lassitude &c. (fatigue) 688; drowsiness &c.
683. disgust, nausea, loathing, sickness; satiety &c.
869; taedium vitae &c. (dejection) 837; boredom, ennui. wearisomeness, tediousness &c. adj.; dull work, tedium, monotony, twice-told tale. bore, buttonholer, proser[obs3], wet blanket; pill*, stiff*; heavy hours, "the enemy" [time].
Adv. wearily &c. adj.; usque ad nauseam[Lat].
Phr. time hanging heavily on one's hands; toujours perdrix[Fr]; crambe repetita[Lat][obs3]. #842.
Wit.-N. wit, humor, wittiness; sense of humor; attic wit, attic salt; atticism[obs3]; salt, esprit, point, fancy, whim, drollery, pleasantry. farce, buffoonery, fooling, tomfoolery; shenanigan [U.S.], harlequinade &c.
599[obs3]; broad farce, broad humor; fun, espieglerie[Fr]; vis comica[Lat]. jocularity; jocosity, jocoseness[obs3]; facetiousness; waggery, waggishness; whimsicality; comicality &c.
853. banter, badinage, retort, repartee, smartness, ready wit, quid-pro- quo; ridicule &c.
Adj. witty, attic; quick-witted, nimble-witted; smart; jocular, jocose, humorous; facetious, waggish, whimsical; kidding, joking, puckish; playful &c. 840; merry and wise; pleasant, sprightly, light, spirituel[obs3], sparkling, epigrammatic, full of point, ben trovato[It]; comic &c.
853. zany, madcap. funny, amusing &c. (amusement) 840.
Adv. jokingly, in joke, in jest, in sport, in play.
Phr. adhibenda est in jocando moderatio[Lat][obs3]; "gentle dullness ever loves a joke" [Pope]; "leave this keen encounter of our wits" [Richard III]; just joking, just kidding; "surely you jest!". #843.
Dullness.-N. dullness, heaviness, flatness; infestivity # [obs3] &c.
499; plodding. boring, tiresome, tedious &c.
841. Phr. davus sum non Aedipus[obs3]; deadly dull and boring, DDB[abbr]. #844.
501. zany, madcap; pickle-herring, witling[obs3], caricaturist, grimacier[obs3]; persifleur[obs3]. 2.
242; comeliness, fairness &c. adj.; polish, gloss; good effect, good looks; belle tournure[obs3]; trigness[obs3]; bloom, brilliancy, radiance, splendor, gorgeousness, magnificence; sublimity, sublimification|. concinnity[obs3], delicacy, refinement; charm, je ne sais quoi[Fr], style.
847; calisthenics|!. [person who is beautiful] beauty; hunk [of men].
V. be beautiful &c. adj.; shine, beam, bloom; become one &c. (accord) 23; set off, grace. render beautiful &c. adj.; beautify; polish, burnish; gild &c. (decorate) 847; set out. "snatch a grace beyond the reach of art" [Pope].
847. undeformed, undefaced, unspotted; spotless &c. (perfect) 650.
Phr. auxilium non leve vultus habet [Lat][Ovid]; "beauty born of murmuring sound" [Wordsworth]; "flowers preach to us if we will hear" [C.G.
Rossetti]; gratior ac pulchro veniens in corpore virtus [Lat][Vergil]; "none but the brave deserve the fair" [Dryden]; "thou who hast the fatal gift of beauty" [Byron]. #846.
Ugliness.-N. ugliness &c. adj.; deformity, inelegance; acomia[obs3]; disfigurement &c. (blemish) 848; want of symmetry, inconcinnity[obs3]; distortion &c.
V. be ugly &c. adj.; look ill, grin horribly a ghastly smile, make faces. render ugly &c. adj.; deface; disfigure, defigure|; distort &c.
23; blemish &c. (injure) 659; soil &c. (render unclean) 653.
Ornament.-N. ornament, ornamentation, ornamental art; ornature[obs3], ornateness; adornment, decoration, embellishment; architecture; jewelry &c.
V. shine like a diamond.
Adj. bejeweled; diamond &c. n[gemstones].. gemological. #848.
Blemish.-N. blemish, disfigurement, deformity; # adactylism[obs3]; flaw, defect &c. (imperfection) 651; injury &c. (deterioration) 659; spots on the sun|!; eyesore. stain, blot; spot, spottiness; speck, speckle, blur. tarnish, smudge; dirt &c.
651; blobber-lipped, bloodshot; injured &c. (deteriorated) 659. #849.
465. dilettantism, dilettanteism; virtu; fine art; culture, cultivation. [Science of taste] aesthetics. man of taste &c.; connoisseur, judge, critic, conoscente, virtuoso, amateur, dilettante, Aristarchus[obs3], Corinthian, arbiter elegantiarum[Lat], stagirite[obs3], euphemist. "caviare to the general" [Hamlet]. V. appreciate, judge, criticise, discriminate &c.
876; frump, dowdy; slattern &c.
V. be vulgar &c. adj.; misbehave; talk shop, smell of the shop.
855; meretricious; extravagant, monstrous, horrid; shocking &c. (painful) 830. gaudy, tawdry, overornamented, baroque, rococo; bedizened, tricked out, gingerbread; obtrusive. #852.
Adv. fashionably &c. adj.; for fashion's sake.
Phr. a la francaise, a la parisienne; a l' anglaise[Fr], a l' americaine[Fr]; autre temps autre mauers[Fr]; chaque pays a sa guise[Fr]. #853.
Ridiculousness.-N. ridiculousness &c. adj.; comicality, oddity &c. adj.; extravagance, drollery. farce, comedy; burlesque &c. (ridicule) 856; buffoonery &c. (fun) 840; frippery; doggerel verses; absurdity &c.
497; bombast &c. (unmeaning) 517; anticlimax, bathos; eccentricity, monstrosity &c. (unconformity) 83; laughingstock &c.
857. V. be ridiculous &c. adj.; pass from the sublime to the ridiculous; make one laugh; play the fool, make a fool of oneself, commit an absurdity.
Phr. risum teneatis amici [Horace]; rideret Heraclitus; du sublime au ridicule il n'y a qu'un pas [Napoleon]. #854.
Fop.-N. fop, fine gentleman; swell; dandy, dandiprat|!; exquisite, coxcomb, beau, macaroni, blade, blood, buck, man about town, fast man; fribble, milliner|!; Jemmy Jessamy|!, carpet knight; masher, dude. fine lady, coquette; flirt, vamp. #855.
Affectation.-N. affectation; affectedness &c. adj.; acting a part &c. v.; pretense &c. (falsehood) 544, (ostentation) 882; boasting &c.
V. affect, act a part, put on; give oneself airs &c. (arrogance) 885; boast &c.
884; coquet; simper, mince, attitudinize, pose; flirt a fan; overact, overdo.
Adj. affected, full of affectation, pretentious, pedantic, stilted, stagy, theatrical, big-sounding, ad captandum; canting, insincere. not natural, unnatural; self-conscious; maniere; artificial; overwrought, overdone, overacted; euphuist &c.
577. stiff, starch, formal, prim, smug, demure, tire a quatre epingles, quakerish, puritanical, prudish, pragmatical, priggish, conceited, coxcomical, foppish, dandified; finical, finikin; mincing, simpering, namby-pamby, sentimental.
Phr. "conceit in weakest bodies strongest works" [Hamlet]. #856.
Hope.-N. hope, hopes; desire &c.
Adj. hopeless, desperate, despairing, gone, in despair, au desespoir[Fr], forlorn, desolate; inconsolable &c. (dejected) 837; broken hearted. unpromising, unpropitious; inauspicious, ill-omened, threatening, clouded over. out of the question, not to be thought of; impracticable &c.
471; past hope, past cure, past mending, past recall; at one's last gasp &c. (death) 360; given up, given over. incurable, cureless, immedicable, remediless, beyond remedy; incorrigible; irreparable, irremediable, irrecoverable, irreversible, irretrievable, irreclaimable, irredeemable, irrevocable; ruined, undone; immitigable.
Int. "angels and ministers of grace defend us!" [Hamlet].
860; white feather, faint heart; cold feet * [U.
S.], yellow streak*. coward, poltroon, dastard, sneak, recreant; shy cock, dunghill cock; coistril[obs3], milksop, white liver, lily liver, nidget[obs3], one that cannot say "bo" to a goose; slink; Bob Acres, Jerry Sneak. alarmist, terrorist|!, pessimist; runagate &c. (fugitive) 623.
V. quail &c. (fear) 860; be cowardly &c. adj., be a coward &c. n.; funk; cower,skulk, sneak; flinch, shy, fight shy, slink, turn tail; run away &c. (avoid) 623; show, the white feather.
Adj. coward, cowardly; fearful, shy; timid, timorous; skittish; poor- spirited, spiritless, soft, effeminate. weak-minded; infirm of purpose &c.
Int. sauve qui peut[Fr]! [French: every man for himself]; devil take the hindmost!
Phr. ante tubam trepidat[Lat], one's courage oozing out; degeneres animos timor arguit [Lat][Vergil]. #863.
V. be rash &c. adj.; stick at nothing, play a desperate game; run into danger &c.
Adv. post haste, a corps perdu[Fr], hand over head, tete baissee[Fr], headforemost[obs3]; happen what may, come what may.
Phr. neck or nothing, the devil being in one; non semper temeritas est felix [Lat][Livy]; paucis temeritas est bono multis malo [Lat][Phaedrus]. #864.
Caution.-N. caution; cautiousness &c. adj.; discretion, prudence, cautel|, heed, circumspection, calculation, deliberation. foresight &c.
668. coolness &c. adj.; self-possession, self-command; presence of mind, sang froid[Fr]; well-regulated mind; worldly wisdom, Fabian policy.
636. caution &c. (warn) 668.
Adj. cautious, wary, guarded; on one's guard &c. (watchful) 459; cavendo tutus[Lat]; in medio tutissimus[Lat]; vigilant. careful, heedful; cautelous|, stealthy, chary, shy of, circumspect, prudent, discreet, politic; sure-footed &c. (skillful) 698. unenterprising, unadventurous, cool, steady, self-possessed; overcautious.
Desire.-N. desire, wish, fancy, fantasy; want, need, exigency. mind, inclination, leaning, bent, animus, partiality, penchant, predilection; propensity &c.
602; liking, love, fondness, relish. longing, hankering, inkling; solicitude, anxiety; yearning, coveting; aspiration, ambition, vaulting ambition; eagerness, zeal, ardor, empressement[Fr], breathless impatience, overanxiety; impetuosity, &c.
957. [Object of desire] desideratum; want &c. (requirement) 630; "a consummation devoutly to be wished"; attraction, magnet, allurement, fancy, temptation, seduction, fascination, prestige, height of one's ambition, idol; whim, whimsy, whimsey[obs3]; maggot; hobby, hobby-horse.
Fortunatus's cap; wishing cap, wishing stone, wishing well.
V. desire; wish, wish for; be desirous &c. adj. have a longing &c. n.; hope &c.
Adv. wistfully &c. adj.; fain.
Int. would that, would that it were!
O for! esto perpetual Phr[Lat]. the wish being father to the thought; sua cuique voluptas[Lat]; hoc erat in votis[Lat], the mouth watering, the fingers itching; aut Caesar aut nullus[Lat].
Cassius has a lean and hungry look" [Jul. Caesar]; "hungry as the grave" [Thomson]; "I was born to other things" [Tennyson]; "not what we wish but what we want" [Merrick]; "such joy ambition finds" [P.
L.]; "the sea hath bounds but deep desire hath none" [Venus and Adonis]; ubi mel ibi apes[Lat]. #866.
Indifference.-N. indifference, neutrality; coldness &c. adj.; anaphrodisia[obs3]; unconcern, insouciance, nonchalance; want of interest, want of earnestness; anorexy[obs3], anorexia, inappetency[obs3]; apathy &c. (insensibility) 823; supineness &c. (inactivity) 683; disdain &c.
458. anaphrodisiac[obs3], antaphrodisiac[obs3]; lust-quencher, passion- queller[obs3].
V. be indifferent &c. adj.; stand neuter; take no interest in &c. (insensibility) 823; have no desire for &c.
Adv. for aught one cares. Int. never mind; Who cares? whatever you like, whatever.
I couldn't care less, I could care less; anything will do; es macht nichts [German]. #867.
Dislike.-N. dislike, distaste, disrelish, disinclination, displacency[obs3]. reluctance; backwardness &c. (unwillingness) 603. repugnance, disgust, queasiness, turn, nausea, loathing; averseness[obs3], aversation|, aversion; abomination, antipathy, abhorrence, horror; mortal antipathy, rooted antipathy, mortal horror, rooted horror; hatred, detestation; hate &c.
900; hydrophobia; canine madness; byssa[obs3], xenophobia. sickener[obs3]; gall and wormwood &c. (unsavory) 395; shuddering, cold sweat.
932; hypercritical; overcritical. Phr. noli me tangere[Lat]. #869.
Satiety.-N. satiety, satisfaction, saturation, repletion, glut, surfeit; cloyment[obs3], satiation; weariness &c.
841. spoiled child; enfant gete[Fr], enfant terrible[Fr]; too much of a good thing, toujours perdrix[Fr]; crambe repetita[Lat][obs3].
V. sate, satiate, satisfy, saturate; cloy, quench, slake, pall, glut., gorge, surfeit; bore &c. (weary) 841; tire &c. (fatigue) 688; spoil. have enough of, have quite enough of, have one's fill, have too much of; be satiated &c. adj.
Adj. satiated &c. v.; overgorged[obs3]; blase, used up, sick of, heartsick.
Int. enough! hold! eheu jam satis[Lat]! basta[obs3]! 4.
Wonder.-N. wonder, marvel; astonishment, amazement, wonderment, bewilderment; amazedness &c. adj[obs3].; admiration, awe; stupor, stupefaction; stound|, fascination; sensation; surprise &c. (inexpectation) 5O8[obs3]. note of admiration; thaumaturgy &c.(sorcery) 992[obs3].
508; unheard of; mysterious &c. (inexplicable) 519; miraculous. indescribable, inexpressible, inaffable[obs3]; unutterable, unspeakable. monstrous, prodigious, stupendous, marvelous; inconceivable, incredible; inimaginable[obs3], unimaginable; strange &c. (uncommon) 83; passing strange. striking &c. v.; overwhelming; wonder-working.
Adv. wonderfully, &c. adj.; fearfully; for a wonder, in the name of wonder; strange to say; mirabile dictu[Lat], mirabile visu[Lat]; to one's great surprise. with wonder &c. n., with gaping mouth; with open eyes, with upturned eyes.
Int. lo, lo and behold!
O! heyday! halloo! what! indeed! really! surely! humph! hem! good lack, good heavens, good gracious!
Ye gods! good Lord! good grief!
Holy shit![vulg.], gad so! welladay[obs3]! dear me! only think! lackadaisy[obs3]! my stars, my goodness! gracious goodness! goodness gracious! mercy on us! heavens and earth!
God bless me! bless us, bless my heart! odzookens[obs3]!
O gemini! adzooks[obs3]! hoity-toity! strong!
Heaven save the mark, bless the mark! can such things be! zounds! 'sdeath! what on earth, what in the world! who would have thought it! &c. (inexpectation) 508[obs3]; you don't say so! You're kidding!.
No kidding? what do you say to that! nous verrons[Fr]! how now! where am I?
Phr. vox faucibus haesit[Lat]; one's hair standing on end. #871. [Absence of wonder.] Expectance.-N. expectance &c. # (expectation) 507. example, instance (conformity) 82. normality (habit) 613 nine days' wonder. V. expect &c.
507; not be surprised, not wonder &c.
Prodigy.-N. prodigy, phenomenon; wonder, wonderment; marvel, miracle; monster &c. (unconformity) 83; curiosity, lion, sight, spectacle; jeu de theatre[Fr], coup de theatre; gazingstock[obs3]; sign; St. Elmo's fire, St. Elmo's light; portent &c.
512. bursting of a shell, bursting of a bomb; volcanic eruption, peal of thunder; thunder-clap, thunder-bolt. what no words can paint; wonders of the world; annus mirabilis[Lat]; dignus vindice nodus[Lat].
Phr. natura il fece e poi roppe la stampa [Ital.]. 5.
EXTRINSIC AFFECTIONS[1] [1] Or personal affections derived from the opinion or feelings of others. #873.
Repute.-N. distinction, mark, name, figure; repute, reputation; good repute, high repute; note, notability, notoriety, eclat, "the bubble reputation" [As You Like It], vogue, celebrity; fame, famousness; renown; popularity, aura popularis[Lat]; approbation &c.
642; preeminence, supereminence; high mightiness, primacy; top of the ladder, top of the tree. elevation; ascent &c.
Adj. distinguished, distingue[Fr], noted; of note &c. n.; honored &c. v.; popular; fashionable &c.
420; full-blown; honorific. eminent, prominent; high &c.
206; in the zenith; at the head of, at the top of the tree; peerless, of the first water.; superior &c.
33; supereminent, preeminent. great, dignified, proud, noble, honorable, worshipful, lordly, grand, stately, august, princely. imposing, solemn, transcendent, majestic, sacred, sublime, heaven-born, heroic, sans peur et sans reproche[Fr]; sacrosanct.
Disrepute.-N. disrepute, discredit; ill repute, bad repute, bad name, bad odor, bad favor, ill name, ill odor, ill favor; disapprobation &c.
Int. fie! shame! for shame! proh pudor[Lat]!
O mores! ough! sic transit gloria mundi[Lat.]! #875.
Nobility.-N. nobility, rank, condition, distinction, optimacy[obs3], blood, pur sang[Fr], birth, high descent, order; quality, gentility; blue blood of Castile; ancien regime[Fr]. high life, haute monde[Fr]; upper classes, upper ten thousand; the four hundred [U.
S.]; magni nominis umbra [Lat][Lucan]; "every inch a king" [Lear].
V. be noble &c. adj.
Adj. noble, exalted; of rank &c. n.; princely, titled, patrician, aristocratic; high-, well-born; of gentle blood; genteel, comme il faut[Fr], gentlemanlike[obs3], courtly &c. (fashionable) 852; highly respectable.
Adel sitzt im Gemuthe nicht im Gebluete[Ger.]; adelig und edel sind zweierlei[obs3][Ger.]; noblesse oblige[Fr.]. #876.
S.], chaw-bacon*[obs3], tiller of the soil; hewers of wood and drawers of water, groundling[obs3]; gaffer, loon, put, cub, Tony Lumpkin[obs3], looby[obs3], rube* [U.
Goth, Vandal, Hottentot, Zulu, savage, barbarian, Yahoo; unlicked cub[obs3], rough diamond|!. barbarousness, barbarism; boeotia.
V. be ignoble &c. adj., be nobody &c. n.
Phr. dummodo sit dives barbarus ipse placet [Lat][Ovid]. #877.
Pride.-N. dignity, self-respect, mens sibi conscia recti [Lat][Vergil]. pride; haughtiness &c. adj.; high notions, hauteur; vainglory, crest; arrogance &c. (assumption) 885. proud man, highflier[obs3]; fine gentleman, fine lady.
885; unblushing &c. 880. stiff, stiff-necked; starch; perked stuck-up; in buckram, strait- laced; prim &c. (affected) 855. on one's dignity, on one's high horses,on one's tight ropes, on one's high ropes; on stilts; en grand seigneur [Fr].
Phr. odi profanum vulgus et arceo [Lat][Horace]. "a duke's revenues on her back" [Henry VI]; "disdains the shadow which he treads on at noon" [Coriolanis]; "pride in their port, defiance in their eye" [Goldsmith]. #879.
Humility.-N. humility, humbleness; meekness, lowness; lowliness, lowlihood[obs3]; abasement, self-abasement; submission &c. 725; resignation. condescension; affability &c. (courtesy) 894. modesty &c.
881; verecundity|, blush, suffusion, confusion; sense of shame,sense of disgrace; humiliation, mortification; let down, set down.
V. be humble &c. adj.; deign, vouchsafe, condescend; humble oneself, demean oneself; stoop, stoop to conquer; carry coals; submit &c.
874; stare out of countenance, put out of countenance; put to the blush; confuse, ashame[obs3], mortify, disgrace, crush; send away with a flea in one's ear. get a setdown[obs3].
Adj. humble, lowly, meek; modest &c.
881; humble minded, sober- minded; unoffended[obs3]; submissive &c.
Adv. with downcast eyes, with bated breath, with bended knee; on all fours, on one's feet. under correction, with due deference.
I am your obedient servant, I am your very humble servant; my service to you; da locum melioribus [Lat][Terence]; parvum parva decent [Lat][Horace]. #880.
Vanity.-N. vanity; conceit, conceitedness; self-conceit, self-complacency, self-confidence, self-sufficiency, self-esteem, self- love, self-approbation, self-praise, self-glorification, self-laudation, self-gratulation[obs3], self-applause, self-admiration; amour propre[Fr]; selfishness &c.
943. airs, affected manner, pretensions, mannerism; egotism; priggism[obs3], priggishness; coxcombry, gaudery[obs3], vainglory, elation; pride &c.
885. vox et praeterea nihil[Lat]; cheval de bataille[Fr]. coxcomb &c.
Adj. vain, vain as a peacock, proud as a peacock; conceited, overweening, pert, forward; vainglorious, high-flown; ostentatious &c.
882; puffed up, inflated, flushed. self-satisfied, self-confident, self-sufficient, self-flattering, self-admiring, self-applauding, self-glorious, self-opinionated; entente &c. (wrongheaded) 481; wise in one's own conceit, pragmatical[obs3], overwise[obs3], pretentious, priggish; egotistic, egotistical; soi-disant &c. (boastful) 884[Fr]; arrogant &c.
885. unabashed, unblushing; unconstrained, unceremonious; free and easy. Adv. vainly &c. adj.
Phr. "how we apples swim!" [Swift]; "prouder than rustling in unpaid-for silk" [Cymbeline]. #881.
879; diffidence, timidity; retiring disposition; unobtrusiveness; bashfulness &c. adj.; mauvaise honte[Fr]; blush, blushing; verecundity|; self-knowledge. reserve, constraint; demureness &c. adj.; "blushing honors" [Henry VIII].
V. be modest &c. adj.; retire, reserve oneself; give way to; draw in one's horns &c.
Adj. modest, diffident; humble &c.
879; timid, timorous, bashful; shy, nervous, skittish, coy, sheepish, shamefaced, blushing, overmodest. unpretending[obs3], unpretentious; unobtrusive, unassuming, unostentatious, unboastful[obs3], unaspiring; poor in spirit. out of countenance &c. (humbled) 879. reserved, constrained, demure.
Adv. humbly &c. adj.; quietly, privately; without ceremony, without beat of drum; sans fa on.
Phr. "not stepping o'er the bounds of modesty" [Romeo and Juliet]; "thy modesty's a candle to thy merit" [Fielding]. #882.
Adv. with flourish of trumpet, with beat of drum, with flying colors. ad captandum vulgus[Lat.].
Phr. honores mutant mores[Lat]. #883.
733; Te Deum &c. (thanksgiving) 990[Lat]; fete &c.
V. celebrate keep, signalize, do honor to, commemorate, solemnize, hallow, mark with a red letter. pledge, drink to, toast, hob and nob[obs3]. inaugurate, install, chair. rejoice &c.
838; kill the fatted calf, hold jubilee, roast an ox.
Adj. celebrating &c. v.; commemorative, celebrated, immortal.
Adv. in honor of, in commemoration of.
Int. hail! all hail! io paean, io triumphe[obs3]! "see the conquering hero comes!". #884.
Boasting.-N. boasting &c. v.; boast, vaunt, crake|; pretense, pretensions; puff, puffery; flourish, fanfaronade[obs3]; gasconade; blague[obs3], bluff, gas*; highfalutin, highfaluting[obs3]; hot air, spread-eagleism [obs3][U.
S.]; brag, braggardism[obs3]; bravado, bunkum, buncombe; jactitation[obs3], jactancy[obs3]; bounce; venditation|, vaporing, rodomontade, bombast, fine talking, tall talk, magniloquence, teratology|, heroics; Chauvinism; exaggeration &c.
880; vox et praeterea nihil[Lat]; much cry and little wool, brutum fulmen[Lat]. exultation; gloriation|, glorification; flourish of trumpets; triumph &c.
883. boaster; braggart, braggadocio; Gascon[Fr], fanfaron[obs3], pretender, soi-disant[Fr]; blower [U.
S.], bluffer, Foxy Quiller[obs3]; blusterer &c.
887; charlatan, jack-pudding, trumpeter; puppy &c. (fop) 854.
Adj. boasting &c. v.; magniloquent, flaming, Thrasonic, stilted, gasconading, braggart, boastful, pretentious, soi-disant[Fr]; vainglorious &c. (conceited) 880; highfalutin, highfaluting[obs3]; spread-eagle [U.
S.*]. elate, elated; jubilant, triumphant, exultant; in high feather; flushed, flushed with victory; cock-a-hoop; on stilts. vaunted &c. v.
Phr. "let the galled jade wince" [Hamlet]; facta non verba[Lat]. #885. [Undue assumption of superiority.] Insolence.-N. insolence; haughtiness &c. adj.; arrogance, airs; overbearance[obs3]; domineering &c. v.; tyranny &c.
Adj. insolent, haughty, arrogant, imperious, magisterial, dictatorial, arbitrary; high-handed, high and mighty; contumelious, supercilious, overbearing, intolerant, domineering, overweening, high-flown. flippant, pert, fresh [U.
Adv. with a high hand; ex cathedra[Lat].
Phr. one's bark being worse than his bite; "beggars mounted run their horse to death" [Henry VI]; quid times?
Caesarem vehis [Lat][Plutarch]; wagahai wa [Jap: I (expressing superiority)]. #886.
Servility.-N. servility; slavery &c. (subjection) 749; obsequiousness &c. adj.; subserviency; abasement; prostration, prosternation|; genuflection &c. (worship) 990; fawning &c. v.; tuft- hunting, timeserving[obs3], flunkeyism[obs3]; sycophancy &c. (flattery) 933; humility &c.
879. sycophant, parasite; toad, toady, toad-eater; tufthunter[obs3]; snob, flunky, flunkey, yes-man, lapdog, spaniel, lickspittle, smell-feast, Graeculus esuriens[Lat], hanger on, cavaliere servente[It], led captain, carpet knight; timeserver, fortune hunter, Vicar of Bray, Sir-Pertinax, Max Sycophant, pickthank[obs3]; flatterer &c.
935; doer of dirty work; ame damnee[Fr], tool; reptile; slave &c. (servant) 746; courtier; beat*, dead beat*, doughface * [obs3][U.
S.], homme de cour[Fr], sponger, sucker*, tagtail[obs3], truckler.
V. cringe, bow, stoop, kneel, bend the knee; fall on one's knees, prostrate oneself; worship &c.
Adj. servile, obsequious; supple,supple as a glove; soapy, oily, pliant, cringing, abased, dough-faced, fawning, slavish, groveling, sniveling, mealy-mouthed; beggarly, sycophantic, parasitical; abject, prostrate, down on ones marrowbones; base, mean, sneaking; crouching &c. v.
Adv. hat in hand, cap in hand. #887.
Blusterer.-N. blusterer, swaggerer, vaporer, roisterer[obs3], brawler; fanfaron[obs3]; braggart &c. (boaster) 884; bully, terrorist, rough; bulldozer [U.
S.], hoodlum, hooligan*, larrikin[obs3], roarer*; Mohock, Mohawk; drawcansir[obs3], swashbuckler, Captain Bobadil, Sir Lucius O'Trigger, Thraso, Pistol, Parolles, Bombastes Furioso[obs3], Hector, Chrononhotonthologos[obs3]; jingo; desperado, dare-devil, fire eater; fury, &c. (violent person) 173; rowdy; slang-whanger*[obs3], tough [U.
S.]. puppy &c. (fop) 854; prig; Sir Oracle, dogmatist, doctrinaire, jack- in-office; saucebox[obs3], malapert, jackanapes, minx; bantam-cock. SECTION III.
Friendship.-N. friendship, amity; friendliness &c. adj.; brotherhood, fraternity, sodality, confraternity; harmony &c. (concord) 714; peace &c.
V. be friendly &c. adj., be friends &c.
890, be acquainted with &c. adj.; know; have the ear of; keep company with &c.(sociality) 892; hold communication with, have dealings with, sympathize with; have a leaning to; bear good will &c. (benevolent) 906; love &c.
897; make much of; befriend &c. (aid) 707; introduce to. set one's horses together; have the latchstring out [U.
S.]; hold out the right hand of friendship, extend the right hand of friendship, hold out the right hand of fellowship; become friendly &c. adj.; make friends &c.
Adv. amicably &c. adj.; with open arms; sans ceremonie[Fr]; arm in arm.
Phr. amicitia semper prodest [Lat][Seneca]; "a mystic bond of brotherhood makes all men one" [Carlyle]; "friendship is love without either flowers or veil" [Hare]; trulgus amicitias utilitate probat [Lat][Ovid]. #889.
Enmity.-N. enmity, hostility; unfriendliness &c. adj.; discord # &c.
713; bitterness, rancor. alienation, estrangement; dislike &c.
907. V. be inimical &c. adj.; keep at arm's length, hold at arm's length; be at loggerheads; bear malice &c.
907; fall out; take umbrage &c.
Eliot]; conocidos muchos amigos pocos[Sp]; "friend more divine than all divinities" [G.
Eliot]; vida sin amigo muerte sin testigo[Sp]. #891.
Enemy.-N. enemy; antagonist; foe, foeman[obs3]; open enemy, bitter enemy; opponent &c.
710; back friend. public enemy, enemy to society.
Phr. every hand being against one; "he makes no friend who never made a foe" [Tennyson]. with friends like that, who needs enemies?; Lord protect me from my friends; I can protect myself from my enemies. #892.
S.]; house raising, barn raising; husking, husking-bee [U.
Adv. en famille[Fr], in the family circle; sans fa on, sans ceremonie[Fr]; arm in arm.
Exclusion.-N. seclusion, privacy; retirement; reclusion, recess; snugness &c. adj.; delitescence[obs3]; rustication, rus in urbe[Lat]; solitude; solitariness &c. (singleness) 87; isolation; loneliness &c. adj.; estrangement from the world, voluntary exile; aloofness. cell, hermitage; convent &c.
886; capping, shaking hands, &c. v.; grip of the hand, embrace, hug, squeeze, accolade, loving cup, vin d'honneur[Fr], pledge; love token &c. (endearment) 902; kiss, buss, salute. mark of recognition, nod; "nods and becks and wreathed smiles" [Milton]; valediction &c.
886. ingratiating, winning; gentle, mild; good-humored, cordial, gracious, affable, familiar; neighborly. diplomatic, tactful, politic; artful &c.
Adv. courteously &c. adj.; with a good grace; with open arms, with outstretched arms; a bras ouverts[Fr]; suaviter in modo[Fr], in good humor.
Int. hail! welcome! well met! ave! all hail! good day, good morrow!
Godspeed! pax vobiscum[Lat]! may your shadow never be less!
Tien de plus estimable que la ceremonie[Fr]; "the very pink of courtesy" [Romeo and Juliet]. #895.
Discourtesy.-N. discourtesy;ill breeding; ill manners, bad manners, ungainly manners; insuavity[obs3]; uncourteousness &c.adj[obs3].; rusticity, inurbanity[obs3]; illiberality, incivility displacency[obs3]. disrespect &c.
929; procacity[obs3], impudence; barbarism, barbarity; misbehavior, brutality, blackguardism[obs3], conduct unbecoming a gentleman, grossieret, brusquerie[obs3]; vulgarity, &c.
851. churlishness &c. adj.; spinosity[obs3], perversity; moroseness &c. (sullenness) 901a. sternness &c. adj.; austerity; moodishness[obs3], captiousness &c.
901; cynicism; tartness &c. adj.; acrimony, acerbity, virulence, asperity. scowl, black looks, frown; short answer, rebuff; hard words, contumely; unparliamentary language, personality. bear, bruin, brute, blackguard, beast; unlicked cub[obs3]; frump, crosspatch[obs3]; saucebox &c.
V. be -rude &c. adj.; insult &c.
90la; frown, scowl, glower, pout; snap, snarl, growl. render rude &c. ad.; brutalize, brutify[obs3].
Adj. discourteous, uncourteous[obs3]; uncourtly[obs3]; ill-bred, ill- mannered, ill-behaved, ill-conditioned; unbred; unmannerly, unmannered; impolite, unpolite[obs3]; unpolished, uncivilized, ungenteel; ungentleman- like, ungentlemanly; unladylike; blackguard; vulgar &c.
901a; peevish &c. (irascible) 901. untactful, impolitic, undiplomatic; artless &c.
703; Adv. discourteously &c. adj.; with discourtesy &c. n., with a bad grace. #896.
Congratulation.-N. congratulation, gratulation[obs3]; # felicitation; salute &c.
I wish you all the joy that you can wish" [Merchant of Venice]; best wishes. #897.
Love.-N. love; fondness &c. adj.; liking; inclination &c. (desire) 865; regard, dilection|, admiration, fancy. affection, sympathy, fellow-feeling; tenderness &c. adj.; heart, brotherly love; benevolence &c.
Cupid, Venus; myrtle; true lover's knot; love token, love suit, love affair, love tale, love story; the, old story, plighted love; courtship &c.
Phr. amantes amentes [Lat][Terence]; credula res amor est [Lat][Ovid]; militat omnis amasius [Lat][Ovid]; love conquers all, omnia vincit amor [Lat][Vergil]; si vis amari ama [obs3][Lat][Seneca]; "the sweetest joy, the wildest woe" [Bailey]. #898.
Hate.-N. hate, hatred, vials of hate. disaffection, disfavor; alienation, estrangement, coolness; enmity &c.
900. umbrage, pique, grudge; dudgeon, spleen bitterness, bitterness of feeling; ill blood, bad blood; acrimony; malice &c.
907; implacability &c. (revenge) 919. repugnance &c. (dislike) 867; misanthropy, demonophobia[obs3], gynephobia[obs3], negrophobia[obs3]; odium, unpopularity; detestation, antipathy; object of hatred, object of execration; abomination, aversion, bete noire; enemy &c.
891; bitter pill; source of annoyance &c.
V. hate, detest, abominate, abhor, loathe; recoil at, shudder at; shrink from, view with horror, hold in abomination, revolt against, execrate;scowl &c.
Adj. hating &c. v.; abhorrent; averse from &c. (disliking) 867; set against. bitter &c. (acrimonious) 895 implacable &c. (revengeful) 919. unloved, unbeloved, unlamented, undeplored, unmourned[obs3], uncared for, unendeared[obs3], un-valued; disliked &c.
867. crossed in love, forsaken, rejected, lovelorn, jilted. obnoxious, hateful, odious, abominable, repulsive, offensive, shocking; disgusting &c. (disagreeable) 830; reprehensible. invidious, spiteful; malicious &c.
907. insulting, irritating, provoking. at daggers drawn[Mutual hate]; not on speaking terms &c. (enmity) 889; at loggerheads. Phr. no love lost between. #899.
Resentment.-N. resentment, displeasure, animosity, anger, wrath, indignation; exasperation, bitter resentment, wrathful indignation. pique, umbrage, huff, miff, soreness, dudgeon, acerbity, virulence, bitterness, acrimony, asperity, spleen, gall; heart-burning, heart- swelling; rankling. ill humor, bad humor, ill temper, bad temper; irascibility &c.
901; ill blood &c. (hate) 898; revenge &c. 919. excitement, irritation; warmth, bile, choler, ire, fume, pucker, dander, ferment, ebullition; towering passion, acharnement[Fr], angry mood, taking, pet, tiff, passion, fit, tantrums. burst, explosion, paroxysm, storm, rage, fury, desperation; violence &c.
173; fire and fury; vials of wrath; gnashing of teeth, hot blood, high words. scowl &c.
901a. [Cause of umbrage] affront, provocation, offense; indignity &c. (insult) 929; grudge, crow to pluck, bone to pick, sore subject, casus belli[Lat]; ill turn, outrage.
Furies, Eumenides. buffet, slap in the face, box on the ear, rap on the knuckles.
Adj. angry, wrath, irate; ireful, wrathful; cross &c. (irascible) 901; Achillean[obs3]; sulky, &c.
901a; bitter, virulent; acrimonious &c. (discourteous) &c.
Adv. angrily &c. adj.; in the height of passion; in the heat of passion, in the heat of the moment.
Int. tantaene animis coelestibus irae [Lat][Vergil]! marry come up! zounds! 'sdeath!
Irascibility.-N. irascibility, irascibleness, temper; crossness &c. adj.; susceptibility, procacity, petulance, irritability, tartness, acerbity, protervity; pugnacity &c. (contentiousness) 720. excitability &c.
825; bad temper, fiery temper, crooked temper, irritable &c. adj. temper; genus irritabile[Lat], hot blood. ill humor &c. (sullenness) 901a; asperity &c., churlishness &c. (discourtesy) 895. huff &c. (resentment) 900; a word and a blow.
Sir Fretful Plagiary; brabbler[obs3], Tartar; shrew, vixen, virago, termagant, dragon, scold, Xantippe; porcupine; spitfire; fire eater &c. (blusterer) 887; fury &c. (violent person) 173.
V. be irascible &c. adj.; have a temper &c. n., have a devil in one; fire up &c. (be angry) 900.
Adj. irascible; bad-tempered, ill-tempered; irritable, susceptible; excitable &c.
900. resentful, resentive[obs3]; vindictive &c.
Phr. a vieux comptes nouvelles disputes[Fr]; quamvis tegatur proditur vultu furor [Lat][Seneca]; vino tortus et ira [Lat][Horace]. #901a.
Sullenness.-N. sullenness &c. adj.; morosity[obs3], spleen; churlishness &c. (discourtesy) 895; irascibility &c.
901. moodiness &c. adj.; perversity; obstinacy &c.
606; torvity|, spinosity[obs3]; crabbedness &c. adj. ill temper, bad temper, ill humor, bad humor; sulks, dudgeon, mumps[obs3], dumps, doldrums, fit of the sulks, bouderie[Fr], black looks, scowl; grouch; huff &c. (resentment) 900.
V. be sullen &c. adj.; sulk; frown, scowl, lower, glower, gloam[obs3], pout, have a hangdog look, glout[obs3].
Adj. sullen, sulky; ill-tempered, ill-humored, ill-affected, ill- disposed; grouty [obs3][U.
Adj. caressing &c. v.; "sighing like furnace" [Shakespeare]; love- sick, spoony. caressed &c.
Phr. "faint heart neer won fair lady"; "kisses honeyed by oblivion" [G. Eliot]. #903.
Adj. married &c. v.; one, one bone and one flesh. marriageable, nubile. engaged, betrothed, affianced. matrimonial, marital, conjugal, connubial, wedded; nuptial, hymeneal, spousal, bridal.
Phr. the gray mare the better horse; "a world-without-end bargain" [Love's Labor's Lost]; "marriages are made in Heaven" [Tennyson]; "render me worthy of this noble wife" [Julius Caesar]; si qua voles apte nubere nube pari [Lat][Ovid]. #904.
Benevolence.-N. benevolence, Christian charity; God's love, God's grace; good will; philanthropy &c.
942. good nature, good feeling, good wishes; kindness, kindliness &c. adj.; loving-kindness, benignity, brotherly love, charity, humanity, fellow- feeling, sympathy: goodness of heart, warmth of heart; bonhomie; kind- heartedness; amiability, milk of human kindness, tenderness; love &c. 897; friendship &c.
707. Adj. benevolent; kind, kindly; well-meaning; amiable; obliging, accommodating, indulgent, gracious, complacent, good-humored. warm-hearted, kind-hearted, tender-hearted, large-hearted, broad- hearted; merciful &c.
914; charitable, beneficent, humane, benignant; bounteous, bountiful. good-natured, well-natured; spleenless[obs3]; sympathizing, sympathetic; complaisant &c. (courteous) 894; well-meant, well-intentioned. fatherly, motherly, brotherly, sisterly; paternal, maternal, fraternal; sororal[obs3]; friendly &c.
Adv. with a good intention, with the best intentions.
Godspeed! much good may it do!
Malevolence.-N. malevolence; bad intent, bad intention; unkindness, diskindness[obs3]; ill nature, ill will, ill blood; bad blood; enmity &c.
898; malignity; malice, malice prepense[obs3]; maliciousness &c. adj.; spite, despite; resentment &c. 900. uncharitableness &c. adj.; incompassionateness &c.
Adv. malevolently &c. adj.; with bad intent &c. n.
Phr. cruel as death; "hard unkindness' alter'd eye" [Gray]; homo homini lupus [Lat][Plautus]; mala mens[Lat], malus animus [Lat][Terence].; "rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind" [Hamlet]; "sharp-tooth'd unkindness" [Lear]. #908.
909; more bark than bite; invective &c. (disapprobation) 932.
909. curse and swear; swear, swear like a trooper; fall a cursing, rap out an oath, damn.
Adj. cursing, cursed &c. v.
Phr. delenda est Carthago[Lat]. #909.
Threat.-N. threat, menace; defiance &c.
715; abuse, minacity[obs3], intimidation; denunciation; fulmination; commination &c. (curse) 908[obs3]; gathering clouds &c. (warning) 668.
V. threat, threaten; menace; snarl, growl, gnarl, mutter, bark, bully. defy &c. 715; intimidate &c.
860; keep in terrorem[Lat], hold up in terrorem[Lat], hold out in terrorem[Lat]; shake the fist at, double the fist at, clinch the fist at; thunder, talk big, fulminate, use big words, bluster, look daggers, stare daggers.
Adj. threatening, menacing; minatory, minacious[obs3]; comminatory[obs3], abusive; in terrorem[Lat]; ominous &c. (predicting) 511 ; defiant &c.
Int. vae victis[Lat]! at your peril! do your worst! #910.
942. philanthropist, endaemonist[obs3], utilitarian, Benthamite, socialist, communist, cosmopolite, citizen of the world, amicus humani generis[Lat]; knight errant; patriot.
Adj. philanthropic, humanitarian, utilitarian, cosmopolitan; public- spirited, patriotic; humane, large-hearted &c. (benevolent) 906; chivalric; generous &c. 942.
Adv. pro bono publico[Lat], pro aris et focis [Lat][obs3][Cicero]. Phr. humani nihil a me alienum puto [Lat][Terence]; omne solum forti patria [Lat][Ovid]; un bien fait n'est jamais perdu[Fr]. #911.
Misanthropy.-N. misanthropy, incivism; egotism &c. # (selfishness) 943; moroseness &c.
901a; cynicism. misanthrope, misanthropist, egotist, cynic, man hater, Timon, Diogenes. woman hater, misogynist. Adj. misanthropic, antisocial, unpatriotic; egotistical &c.(selfish) 943; morose &c.
Benefactor.-N. benefactor, savior, good genius, tutelary saint, guardian angel, good Samaritan; pater patriae[Lat]; salt of the earth &c. (good man); 948; auxiliary &c.
711. #913. [Maleficent being] Evil doer-N. evil doer, evil worker; # wrongdoer &c.
949; mischief-maker, marplot; oppressor, tyrant; destroyer, Vandal; iconoclast|!. firebrand, incendiary, fire bug [U.
S.], pyromaniac; anarchist, communist|!, terrorist. savage, brute, ruffian, barbarian, semibarbarian[obs3], caitiff, desperado; Apache[obs3], hoodlum, hood, plug-ugly*, pug-ugly* [U.S.], Red Skin, tough [U.
663. cutthroat &c. (killer) 461. cannibal; anthropophagus|!, anthropophagist|!; bloodsucker, vampire, ogre, ghoul, gorilla, vulture; gyrfalcon|!, gerfalcon|!. wild beast, tiger, hyena, butcher, hangman; blood-hound, hell-hound, sleuth-hound; catamount [U.
S.], cougar, jaguar, puma. hag, hellhag[obs3], beldam, Jezebel. monster; fiend &c. (demon) 980; devil incarnate, demon in human shape; Frankenstein's monster. harpy, siren; Furies, Eumenides. Hun, Attila[obs3], scourge of the human race. Phr. faenum habet in cornu [Lat]. 3.
Pity.-N. pity, compassion, commiseration; bowels, of compassion; sympathy, fellow-feeling, tenderness, yearning, forbearance, humanity, mercy, clemency; leniency &c. (lenity) 740; charity, ruth, long- suffering. melting mood; argumentum ad misericordiam[Lat], quarter, grace, locus paenitentiae[Lat]. sympathizer; advocate, friend, partisan, patron, wellwisher.
V. pity; have pity, show pity, take pity &c. n.; commiserate, compassionate; condole &c.
Adj. pitying &c. v.; pitiful, compassionate, sympathetic, touched. merciful, clement, ruthful; humane; humanitarian &c. (philanthropic) 910; tender, tender hearted, tender as a chicken; soft, soft hearted; unhardened[obs3]; lenient &c.
740; exorable[obs3], forbearing; melting &c. v.; weak.
Int. for pity's sake! mercy! have mercy! cry you mercy!
God help you! poor thing! poor dear! poor fellow! woe betide! "quis talia fando temperet a lachrymiss!" [Lat][Vergil].
Phr. one's heart bleeding for; haud ignara mali miseris succurrere disco [Lat][Vergil]; "a fellow feeling makes one wondrous kind" onor di bocca assai giova e poco costa[Garrick][It]. #914a.
Pitilessness.-N. pitilessness &c. adj.; inclemency; severity # &c.
907. V. have no mercy, shut the gates of mercy &c.
914; give no quarter. Adj. pitiless, merciless, ruthless, bowelless; unpitying, unmerciful, inclement; grim-faced, grim-visaged; incompassionate[obs3], uncompassionate; inexorable; harsh &c.
V. condole with, console, sympathize express pity, testify pity; afford consolation, supply consolation; lament &c.
839 with; express sympathy for; feel grief in common with, feel sorrow in common with; share one's sorrow. 4.
Adj. grateful, thankful, obliged, beholden, indebted to, under obligation.
Int. thanks! many thanks! gramercy[obs3]! much obliged! thank you! thank you very much! thanks a lot! thanks a heap, thanks loads [coll.]; thank Heaven!
Revenge.-N. revenge, revengement[obs3]; vengeance; avengement[obs3], avengeance|, sweet revenge, vendetta, death feud, blood for blood retaliation &c.
718; day of reckoning. rancor, vindictiveness, implacability; malevolence &c.
907; ruthlessness &c. 914a. avenger, vindicator, Nemesis, Eumenides.
Adj. revengeful, vengeful; vindictive, rancorous; pitiless &c.
914a; ruthless, rigorous, avenging. unforgiving, unrelenting; inexorable, stony-hearted, implacable; relentless, remorseless. aeternum servans sub pectore vulnus[Lat]; rankling; immitigable.
Phr. manet ciratrix[Lat], manet alid mente repostum[Lat][obs3]; dies irae dies illa[Lat]; "in high vengeance there is noble scorn" [G.
Eliot]; inhumanum verbum est ultio [Lat][Seneca]; malevolus animus abditos dentes habet [Lat][obs3][Syrus]; "now infidel I have thee on the hip" [Merchant of Venice]. #920.
Jealousy.-N. jealousy,jealousness; jaundiced eye; envious # suspicion, suspicion; "green-eyed monster" [Othello]; yellows; Juno. V. be jealous &c. adj.; view with jealousy, view with a jealous eye. Adj. jealous, jealous as a barbary pigeon[obs3]; jaundiced, yellow- eyed, envious, hornmad. #921.
Right.-N. right; what ought to be, what should be; fitness &c. adj.; summum jus[Lat]. justice, equity; equitableness &c. adj.; propriety; fair play, impartiality, measure for measure, give and take, lex talionis[Lat].
Astraea[obs3], Nemesis, Themis. scales of justice, evenhanded justice, karma; suum cuique[Lat]; clear stage, fair field and no favor, level playing field. morals &c. (duty) 926; law &c.
963; honor &c. (probity) 939; virtue &c.
Adj. right, good; just, reasonable; fit &c.
924; equal, equable, equatable[obs3]; evenhanded, fair. legitimate, justifiable, rightful; as it should be, as it ought to be; lawful &c. (permitted) 760, (legal) 963. deserved &c.
Adv. rightly &c. adj.; bon droit[Fr], au bon droit[Fr], in justice, in equity,, in reason. without distinction of persons, without regard to persons, without respect to persons; upon even terms.
Int. all right! fair's fair.
Phr. Dieu et mon droit[Fr]; "in equal scale weighing delight and dole" [Hamlet]; justitia cuum cuique distribuit [Lat][Cicero]; justitiae soror incorrupta fides[Lat]; justitia virtutem regina[Lat]; "thrice is he armed that hath his quarrel just" [Henry VI]. #923.
Wrong.-N. wrong; what ought not to be, what should not be; # malum in se[Lat]; unreasonableness, grievance; shame. injustice; tort [Law]; unfairness &c. adj.; iniquity, foul play. partiality, leaning, bias; favor, favoritism; nepotism, party spirit, partisanship; bigotry. undueness &c.
925; wrongdoing (vice) 945; unlawfulness &c.
945. in the wrong, in the wrong box. Adv. wrongly &c. adj. Phr. it will not do. #924.
760; sanctify, legalize, ordain, prescribe, allot. give every one his due &c.
922; pay one's dues; have one's due, have one's rights. use a right, assert, enforce, put in force, lay under contribution.
Adv. duly, ex officio, de jure[Lat]; by right, by divine right; jure divino[Lat], Dei gratia[Lat], in the name of.
Phr. civis Romanus sum [Lat][Cicero]; chaque saint sa chandelle[Fr]. #925. [Absence of right.] Undueness.-N. undueness &c. adj.; malum # prohibitum[Lat]; impropriety; illegality &c.
964. falseness &c. adj.; emptiness of title, invalidity of title; illegitimacy. loss of right, disfranchisement, forfeiture. usurpation, tort, violation, breach, encroachment, presumption, assumption, seizure; stretch, exaction, imposition, lion's share. usurper, pretender. V. be undue &c. adj.; not be due &c.
Adv. with a safe conscience, as in duty, bound, on one's own responsibility, at one's own risk, suo periculo[Lat]; in foro conscientiae[Lat]; quamdiu se bene gesserit[Lat].
Dereliction of Duty.-N. dereliction of duty; fault &c. (guilt) 947; sin &c. (vice) 945; non-observance, non-performance; neglect, relaxation, infraction, violation, transgression, failure, evasion; dead letter.
V. violate; break, break through; infringe; set aside, set at naught; encroach upon, trench upon; trample on, trample under foot; slight, neglect, evade, renounce, forswear, repudiate; wash one's hands of; escape, transgress, fail. call to account &c. (disapprobation) 932. #927a.
Exemption.-N. exemption, freedom, irresponsibility, immunity, liberty, license, release, exoneration, excuse, dispensation, absolution, franchise, renunciation, discharge; exculpation &c.
Adj. exempt, free, immune, at liberty, scot-free; released &c. v.; unbound, unencumbered; irresponsible, unaccountable, not answerable; excusable. Phr. bonis nocet quisquis pepercerit malis [Lat][Syrus]. 2.
Respect.-N. respect, regard, consideration; courtesy &c.
894; attention, deference, reverence, honor, esteem, estimation, veneration, admiration; approbation &c.
931. homage, fealty, obeisance, genuflection, kneeling prostration; obsequiousness &c.
886; salaam, kowtow, bow, presenting arms, salute. respects, regards, duty, devoirs, egards. devotion &c. (piety) 987.
894; salute, present arms; do homage to, pay homage to; pay tribute to, kneel to, bow to, bend the knee to; fall down before, prostrate oneself, kiss the hem of one's garment; worship &c.
990. keep one's distance, make room, observe due decorum, stand upon ceremony. command respect, inspire respect; awe, inspire awe, impose, overawe, dazzle.
Adj. respecting &c.v.; respectful, deferential, decorous, reverential, obsequious, ceremonious, bareheaded, cap in hand, on one's knees; prostrate &c. (servile) 886. respected &c.v.; in high esteem, in high estimation; time-honored, venerable, emeritus.
Adv. in deference to; with all respect, with all due respect, with due respect, with the highest respect; with submission. saving your grace, saving your presence; salva sit reverentia[Lat]; pace tanti nominis[Lat].
Int. hail! all hail! esto perpetua[Lat]! may your shadow never be less!
Phr. "and pluck up drowned honor by the locks" [Henry IV]; "his honor rooted in dishonor stood" [Tennyson]; "honor pricks me on" [Henry IV]. #929.
Disrespect.-N. disrespect, disesteem, disestimation[obs3]; disparagement &c. (dispraise) 932, (detraction) 934. irreverence; slight, neglect, spretae injuria formae [Lat][Vergil], superciliousness &c. (contempt) 930. vilipendency|, vilification, contumely, affront, dishonor, insult, indignity, outrage, discourtesy &c.
895; practical joking; scurrility, scoffing, sibilance, hissing, sibilation; irrision[obs3]; derision; mockery; irony &c. (ridicule) 856; sarcasm. hiss, hoot, boo, gibe, flout, jeer, scoff, gleek|, taunt, sneer, quip, fling, wipe, slap in the face.
V. hold in disrespect &c. (despise) 930; misprize, disregard, slight, trifle with, set at naught, pass by, push aside, overlook, turn one's back upon, laugh in one's sleeve; be disrespectful &c. adj., be discourteous &c.
856; laugh to scorn &c. (contempt) 930; smoke; fool; make game of, make a fool of, make an April fool of[obs3]; play a practical joke; lead one a dance, run the rig upon, have a fling at, scout; mob.
Adj. disrespectful; aweless, irreverent; disparaging &c.
934; insulting &c.v.; supercilious, contemptuous, patronizing &c. (scornful) 930; rude, derisive, sarcastic; scurrile, scurrilous; contumelious. unrespected[obs3], unworshiped[obs3], unenvied[obs3], unsaluted[obs3]; unregarded[obs3], disregarded.
Adv. disrespectfully &c. adj. #930.
Contempt.-N. contempt, disdain, scorn, sovereign contempt; despisal[obs3], despiciency[obs3]; despisement[obs3]; vilipendency|!, contumely; slight, sneer, spurn, by-word; despect[obs3]. contemptuousness &c. adj.; scornful eye; smile of contempt; derision &c. (disrespect) 929. despisedness[obs3][State of being despised].
Adj. contemptuous; disdainful, scornful; withering, contumelious, supercilious, cynical, haughty, bumptious, cavalier; derisive. contemptible, despicable; pitiable; pitiful &c. (unimportant) 643; despised &c.v.; downtrodden; unenvied[obs3]. unrespectable (unworthy) 874.
Int. a fig for &c. (unimportant) 643; bah! never mind! away with! hang it! fiddlededee!
Phr. "a dismal universal hiss, the sound of public scorn" [Paradise Lost]; "I had rather be a dog and bay the moon than such a Roman" [Julius Caesar]. #931.
Approbation.-N. approbation; approval, approvement[obs3]; sanction, advocacy; nod of approbation; esteem, estimation, good opinion, golden opinions, admiration; love &c.
V. approve; approbate[obs3][1], think good, think much of, think well of, think highly of; esteem, value, prize; set great store by, set great store on. do justice to, appreciate; honor, hold in esteem, look up to, admire; like &c.
Adv. with credit, to admiration; well &c.
618; with three times three.
Phr. probatum est[Lat]; tacent satis laudant[Lat]; "servant of God, well done!" [Paradise Lost]. [note 1][Obsolete in England except in legal writings, but surviving in the United States chiefly in a technical sense for license.
Disapprobation.-N. disapprobation, disapproval; improbation[obs3]; disesteem, disvaluation[obs3], displacency[obs3]; odium; dislike &c.
867. dispraise, discommendation[obs3]; blame, censure, obloquy; detraction &c.
934; disparagement, depreciation; denunciation; condemnation &c.
908. chiding, upbraiding &c.v.; exprobation[obs3], abuse, vituperation, invective, objurgation, contumely; hard words, cutting words, bitter words. evil-speaking; bad language &c.
938; impeach, denounce; hold up to reprobation, hold up to execration; expose, brand, gibbet, stigmatize; show up, pull up, take up; cry "shame" upon; be outspoken; raise a hue and cry against. execrate &c.
Adj. disapproving &c.v.; scandalized. disparaging, condemnatory, damnatory[obs3], denunciatory, reproachful, abusive, objurgatory[obs3], clamorous, vituperative; defamatory &c.
934. satirical, sarcastic, sardonic, cynical, dry, sharp, cutting, biting, severe, withering, trenchant, hard upon; censorious, critical, captious, carping, hypercritical; fastidious &c.
Adv. with a wry face; reproachfully &c. adj.
Int. it is too bad! it won't do, it will never do! marry come up!
Oh! come! 'sdeath! forbid it Heaven!
God forbid, Heaven forbid! out upon, fie upon it! away with! tut!
O tempora[obs3]! O mores! shame! fie, fie for shame! out on you! tell it not in Gath! #933.
Adj. flattering &c.v.; adulatory; mealy-mouthed, honey-mouthed; honeyed; smooth, smooth-tongued; soapy, oily, unctuous, blandiloquent[obs3], specious; fine-spoken, fair spoken; plausible, servile, sycophantic, fulsome; courtierly[obs3], courtier-like.
Detraction.-N. detraction, disparagement, depreciation, vilification, obloquy, scurrility, scandal, defamation, aspersion, traducement, slander, calumny, obtrectation[obs3], evil-speaking, backbiting, scandalum magnatum[Lat]. personality, libel, lampoon, skit, pasquinade; chronique scandaleuse[Fr]; roorback [U.S.]. sarcasm, cynicism; criticism (disapprobation) 932; invective &c.
932; envenomed tongue; spretae injuria formae[Lat]. personality, libel, lampoon, skit, pasquinade; chronique scandaleuse[Fr]; roorback [U.S.]. detractor &c. 936.
932; dip the pen in gall, view in a bad light. impugn[disparage the motives of]; assail, attack &c.
Adj. detracting &c.v.; defamatory, detractory[obs3], derogatory, deprecatory; catty; disparaging, libelous; scurrile, scurrilous; abusive; foul-spoken, foul-tongued, foul-mouthed; slanderous; calumnious, calumniatory[obs3]; sarcastic, sardonic; sarcastic, satirical, cynical. critical &c.
932. Phr. "damn with faint praise, assent with civil leer; and without sneering, teach the rest to sneer" [Pope]; another lie nailed to the counter; "cut men's throats with whisperings" [B.
Jonson]; "foul whisperings are abroad" "soft-buzzing slander" [Macbeth][Thomson]; "virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes" [Hamlet]. #935.
Flatterer.-N. flatterer, adulator; eulogist, euphemist; optimist, encomiast, laudator[Lat], whitewasher. toady, toadeater[obs3]; sycophant, courtier, Sir Pertinax MacSycophant; flaneur[Fr], proneur[Fr]; puffer, touter[obs3], claqueur[Fr]; clawback[obs3], earwig, doer of dirty work; parasite, hanger-on &c. (servility) 886. yes-man, suckup, ass-kisser [vulgar], brown-noser [vulgar], teacher's pet.
Phr. pessimum genus inimicorum laudantes [Lat][Tacitus]. #936.
Detractor.-N. detractor, reprover; censor, censurer; cynic, # critic, caviler, carper, word-catcher, frondeur; barracker[obs3]. defamer, backbiter, slanderer, Sir Benjamin Backbite, lampooner, satirist, traducer, libeler, calumniator, dawplucker[obs3], Thersites[obs3]; Zoilus; good-natured friend [satirically]; reviler, vituperator, castigator; shrew &c.
901; muckraker. disapprover, laudator temporis acti [Lat][Horace]. Adj. black-mouthed, abusive &c.
Vindication.-N. vindication, justification, warrant; # exoneration, exculpation; acquittal &c.
970; whitewashing. extenuation; palliation, palliative; softening, mitigation. reply, defense; recrimination &c 938. apology, gloss, varnish; plea &c.
617; salvo; excuse, extenuating circumstances; allowance, allowance to be made; locus paenitentiae[Lat]. apologist, vindicator, justifier; defendant &c.
938. justifiable charge, true bill. v. justify, warrant; be an excuse &c. n.for; lend a color, furnish a handle; vindicate; exculpate, disculpate[obs3]; acquit &c.
Accusation.-N. accusation, charge, imputation, slur, inculpation, exprobration[obs3], delation; crimination; incrimination, accrimination[obs3], recrimination; tu quoque argument[Lat]; invective &c.
932. denunciation, denouncement; libel, challenge, citation, arraignment; impeachment, appeachment[obs3]; indictment, bill of indictment, true bill; lawsuit &c.
971. gravamen of a charge, head and front of one's offending, argumentum ad hominem[Lat]; scandal &c. (detraction) 934; scandalum magnatum[Lat]. accuser, prosecutor, plaintiff; relator, informer; appellant. accused, defendant, prisoner, perpetrator, panel, respondent; litigant.
Int. look at home; tu quoque &c. (retaliation) 718[Lat].
Phr. "the breath of accusation kills an innocent name" [Shelley]; "thou can'st not say I did it" [Macbeth]. 3.
Adj. upright; honest, honest as daylight; veracious &c.
946; pure, stainless; unstained, untarnished, unsullied, untainted, unperjured[obs3]; uncorrupt, uncorrupted; undefiled, undepraved[obs3], undebauched[obs3]; integer vitae scelerisque purus [Lat][Horace]; justus et tenax propositi [Lat][Horace]. chivalrous, jealous of honor, sans peur et sans reproche[Fr]; high- spirited. supramundane[obs3], unworldly, other-worldly, overscrupulous[obs3].
Adv. honorable &c. adj.; bona fide; on the square, in good faith, honor bright, foro conscientiae[Lat], with clean hands.
Improbity.-N. improbity[obs3]; dishonesty, dishonor; deviation from rectitude; disgrace &c. (disrepute) 874; fraud &c. (deception) 545; lying &c.
544; bad faith, Punic faith; mala fides[Lat], Punica fides[Lat]; infidelity; faithlessness &c. adj.; Judas kiss, betrayal. breach of promise, breach of trust, breach of faith; prodition|, disloyalty, treason, high treason; apostasy &c. (tergiversation) 607; nonobservance &c.
Adj. dishonest, dishonorable; unconscientious, unscrupulous; fraudulent &c.
545; knavish; disgraceful &c. (disreputable) 974; wicked &c.
Adv. dishonestly &c. adj.; mala fide[Lat], like a thief in the night, by crooked paths.
Phr. corruptissima respublica plurimae leges [Lat][Tacitus]. #941.
Knave.-N. knave, rogue; Scapin[obs3], rascal; Lazarillo de Tormes; bad man &c.
949; barrater[obs3], barrator[obs3]; shyster [U.S..]. traitor, betrayer, archtraitor[obs3], conspirator, Judas, Catiline; reptile, serpent, snake in the grass, wolf in sheep's clothing, sneak, Jerry Sneak, squealer*, tell-tale, mischief-maker; trimmer, fence-sitter, renegade &c. (tergiversation) 607; truant, recreant; sycophant &c. (servility) 886. #942.
Disinterestedness.-N. disinterestedness &c. adj.; generosity; liberality, liberalism; altruism; benevolence &c.
906; elevation, loftiness of purpose, exaltation, magnanimity; chivalry, chivalrous spirit; heroism, sublimity. self-denial, self-abnegation, self-sacrifice, self-immolation, self- control &c. (resolution) 604; stoicism, devotion, martyrdom, suttee. labor of love.
V. be disinterested &c. adj.; make a sacrifice, lay one's head on the block; put oneself in the place of others, do as one would be done by, do unto others as we would men should do unto us.
Adj. disinterested; unselfish; self-denying, self-sacrificing, self- devoted; generous. handsome, liberal, noble, broad-minded; noble-minded, high-minded; princely, great, high, elevated, lofty, exalted, spirited, stoical, magnanimous; great-hearted, large-hearted; chivalrous, heroic, sublime. unbought, unbribed[obs3]; uncorrupted &c. (upright) 939.
Phr. non vobis solum[Lat]. #943.
Adj. selfish; self-seeking, self-indulgent, self-interested, self- centered; wrapped up in self, wrapt up in self[obs3], centered in self; egotistic, egotistical; egoistical[obs3]. illiberal, mean, ungenerous, narrow-minded; mercenary, venal; covetous &c.
819. unspiritual, earthly, earthly-minded; mundane; worldly, worldly- minded; worldly-wise; timeserving[obs3]. interested; alieni appetens sui profusus[Lat].
Adv. ungenerously &c. adj.; to gain some private ends, from interested motives.
Phr. apres nous le deluge[Fr]. #944.
Virtue.-N. virtue; virtuousness &c. adj.; morality; moral rectitude; integrity &c. (probity) 939; nobleness &c.
873. morals; ethics &c. (duty) 926; cardinal virtues. merit, worth, desert, excellence, credit; self-control &c. (resolution) 604; self-denial &c. (temperance) 953. well-doing; good actions, good behavior; discharge of duty, fulfillment of duty, performance of duty; well-spent life; innocence &c.
V. be virtuous &c. adj.; practice virtue &c.n.; do one's duty, fulfill one's duty, perform one's duty, discharge one's duty; redeem one's pledge, keep one's promise &c.
Adj. virtuous, good; innocent &c.
946; meritorious, deserving, worthy, desertful[obs3], correct; dutiful, duteous; moral; right, righteous, right- minded; well-intentioned, creditable, laudable, commendable, praiseworthy; above all praise, beyond all praise; excellent, admirable; sterling, pure, noble; whole-souled[obs3]. exemplary; matchless, peerless; saintly, saint-like; heaven-born, angelic, seraphic, godlike.
Adv. virtuously &c, adj.; e merito[Lat].
Phr. esse quam videri bonus malebat [Lat][Sallust]; Schonheit vergeht Tugend besteht[Ger]; "virtue the greatest of all monarchies" [Swift]; virtus laudatur et alget [Lat][obs3][Juvenal]; virtus vincit invidiam[Lat]. #945.
621; joint*, opium den, shooting gallery, crack house.
V. be vicious &c. adj.; sin, commit sin, do amiss, err, transgress; misdemean oneself[obs3], forget oneself, misconduct oneself; misdo[obs3], misbehave; fall, lapse, slip, trip, offend, trespass; deviate from the line of duty, deviate from the path of virtue &c.
944; take a wrong course, go astray; hug a sin, hug a fault; sow one's wild oats. render vicious &c. adj.; demoralize, brutalize; corrupt &c. (degrade) 659.
Mephistophelian, satanic, diabolic, hellish, infernal, stygian, fiendlike[obs3], hell-born, demoniacal, devilish, fiendish. miscreated[obs3], misbegotten; demoralized, corrupt, depraved. evil-minded, evil-disposed; ill-conditioned; malevolent &c.
Adv. wrong; sinfully &c. adj.; without excuse.
Innocence.-N. innocence; guiltlessness &c. adj.; # incorruption, impeccability. clean hands, clear conscience, mens sibi conscia recti [Lat][Vergil]. innocent, lamb, dove. V. be innocent &c. adj; nil conscire sibi nulla pallescere culpa [Lat][Horace]. acquit &c.
970; exculpate &c. (vindicate) 937. Adj. innocent, not guilty; unguilty[obs3]; guiltless, faultless, sinless, stainless, bloodless, spotless; clear, immaculate; rectus in curia[Lat]; unspotted, unblemished, unerring; undefiled &c.
939; unhardened[obs3], Saturnian; Arcadian &c. (artless) 703[obs3]. inculpable, unculpable[obs3]; unblamed, unblamable[obs3]; blameless, unfallen[obs3], inerrable[obs3], above suspicion; irreproachable, irreprovable[obs3], irreprehensible[obs3]; unexceptionable, unobjectionable, unimpeachable; salvable[obs3]; venial &c.
937. harmless; inoffensive, innoxious[obs3], innocuous; dove-like, lamb- like; pure, harmless as doves; innocent as a lamb, innocent as the babe unborn; "more sinned against than sinning" [Lear]. virtuous &c.
944; unreproved[obs3], unimpeached, unreproached[obs3]. Adv. innocently &c. adj.; with clean hands; with a clear conscience, with a safe conscience. Phr. murus aeneus conscientia sana [Lat][obs3][Horace]. #947.
Adj. guilty, to blame, culpable, peccable[obs3], in fault, at fault, censurable, reprehensible, blameworthy, uncommendable, illaudable[obs3]; weighed in the balance and found wanting; exceptionable.
Adv. in flagrante delicto[Lat]; red-handed, in the very act, with one's hand in the cookie jar.
Phr. cui prodest scelus in fecit [Lat][Seneca]; culpam paena premit comes [Lat][Horace]; "O would the deed were good!" [Richard II]; "responsibility prevents crimes" se judice nemo nocens absolvitur [Lat][Burke;][Juvenal]; "so many laws argues so many sins" [Paradise Lost]. #948.
Good Man.-N. good man, honest man, worthy. # good woman, perfect lady, Madonna. model, paragon &c. (perfection) 650; good example; hero, heroine, demigod, seraph, angel; innocent &c.
946; saint &c. (piety) 987; benefactor &c.
Bad Man.-N. bad man, wrongdoer, worker of iniquity; evildoer &c.
913; sinner; the wicked &c.
818. rough, rowdy, hooligan, tough, ugly customer, mean mother [coll.], ruffian, bully, meanie [jocular]; Jonathan Wild; hangman. incendiary, arsonist, fire bug [U.S.]. thief &c.
Acherontis pabulum[obs3]; gibier de potence[Fr]. #950.
Penitence.-N. penitence, contrition, compunction, repentance, remorse; regret &c.
952; resipiscence|!. awakened conscience, deathbed repentance, locus paenitentiae[Lat], stool of repentance, cuttystool[obs3]. penitent, repentant, Magdalen, prodigal son, "a sadder and a wiser man" [Coleridge].
V. repent, be sorry for; be penitent &c. adj.; rue; regret &c.
Adj. penitent; repenting &c.v.; repentant, contrite; conscience- smitten, conscience-stricken; self-accusing, self-convicted. penitential, penitentiary; reclaimed, reborn; not hardened; unhardened[obs3].
Phr. peccavi; erubuit[Lat]; salva res est [Lat][Terence]; Tu l'as voulu[Fr], Georges Dandin; "and wet his grave with my repentant tears" [Richard III]. #951.
Atonement.-N. atonement, reparation; compromise, composition; compensation &c.
30; quittance, quits; expiation, redemption, reclamation, conciliation, propitiation; indemnification, redress. amends, apology, amende honorable[obs3], satisfaction; peace offering, sin offering, burnt offering; scapegoat, sacrifice. penance, fasting, maceration, sackcloth and ashes, white sheet, shrift, flagellation, lustration[obs3]; purgation, purgatory.
Temperance.-N. temperance, moderation, sobriety, soberness. # forbearance, abnegation; self-denial, self-restraint, self-control &c. (resolution) 604. frugality; vegetarianism, teetotalism, total abstinence; abstinence, abstemiousness; Encratism[obs3], prohibition; system of Pythagoras, system of Cornaro; Pythagorism, Stoicism. vegetarian; Pythagorean, gymnosophist[obs3]. teetotaler &c.
Circean cup. [drugs of abuse: list] bhang, hashish, marijuana, pot [coll.], hemp [coll.], grass [coll.]; opium, cocaine, morphine, heroin; LSD[abbr], lysergic acid diethylamide[Chem][Chem]; phencyclidine, angel dust, PCP; barbiturates; amphetamines, speed [coll.].
Adj. intemperate,inabstinent[obs3]; sensual, self-indulgent; voluptuous, luxurious, licentious, wild, dissolute, rakish, fast, debauched. brutish, crapulous[obs3], swinish, piggish.
Paphian, Epicurean, Sybaritical; bred in the lap of luxury, nursed in the lap of luxury; indulged, pampered; full-fed, high-fed.
Phr. "being full of supper and distempering draughts" [Othello]. #954a.
Sybarite, voluptuary, Sardanaphalus, man of pleasure, carpet knight; epicure, epicurean, gourmet, gourmand; pig, hog; votary of Epicurus, swine of Epicurus; sensualist; Heliogabalus; free liver, hard liver; libertine &c.
Asceticism.-N. asceticism, puritanism, sabbatarianism[obs3]; # cynicism|!, austerity; total abstinence; nephalism[obs3]. mortification, maceration, sackcloth and ashes, flagellation; penance &c.
956; martyrdom. ascetic; anchoret[obs3], anchorite; martyr; Heautontimorumenos[obs3]; hermit &c. (recluse) 893; puritan, sabbatarian[obs3], cynic, sanyasi[obs3], yogi. Adj. ascetic, austere, puritanical; cynical; over-religious; acerbic. #956.
Fasting.-N. fasting; xerophagy[obs3]; famishment, starvation. fast, jour maigre[Fr]; fast day, banyan day; Lent, quadragesima[obs3]; Ramadan, Ramazan; spare diet, meager diet; lenten diet, lenten entertainment; soupe maigre[Fr], short commons, Barmecide feast[obs3]; short rations.
V. fast, starve, clem|, famish, perish with hunger; dine with Duke Humphrey[obs3]; make two bites of a cherry.
Adj. lenten, quadragesimal[obs3]; unfed[obs3]; starved &c.v.; half- starved; fasting &c. v.; hungry &c.
918. pampered; overfed, overgorged[obs3]. Phr. jejunus raro stomachus vulgaria temnit [Lat][Horace]. #958.
Sobriety.-N. sobriety; teetotalism. # temperance &c.
953. water-drinker; hydropot|!; prohibitionist; teetotaler, teetotalist; abstainer, Good Templar, band of hope. V. take the pledge. Adj. sober, sober as a judge. #959.
Phr. nunc est bibendum[Lat]; "Bacchus ever fair and young" [Dryden]; "drink down all unkindness" [Merry Wives]; "O that men should put an enemy in their mouths to steal away their brains" [Othello]. #960.
V. be impure &c. adj.; intrigue; debauch, defile, seduce; prostitute; abuse, violate, deflower; commit adultery &c.n.
922. [institution for deciding questions of law] court, tribunal &c. 966. [person who presides at a court or tribunal] judge &c.
Jurisdiction. [Executive.]-N. jurisdiction, judicature, administration of justice, soc; executive, commission of the peace; magistracy &c. (authority) 737. judge &c.
V. judge, sit in judgment; extradite. Adj. executive, administrative, municipal; inquisitorial, causidical[obs3]; judicatory[obs3], judiciary, judicial; juridical. Adv. coram judice[Lat]. #966.
Phr. die Weltgeschichte ist das Weltgericht[Ger]. #967.
V. adjudge &c. (determine) 480; try a case, try a prisoner.
965. Phr. "a Daniel come to judgment" [Merchant of Venice]. #968.
V. practice law, practice at the bar, practice within the bar; plead; call to the bar, be called to the bar, be called within the bar; take silk; take to the law. give legal counsel, provide legal counsel.
Adj. learned in the law; at the bar; forensic; esquire, esquired.
Lawsuit.-N. lawsuit, suit, action, cause; litigation; suit in # law; dispute &c.
480. Adj. litigious &c. (quarrelsome) 713; qui tam; coram judice[Lat], sub judice[Lat]. Adv. pendente lite[Lat]. Phr. adhuc sub judice lis est[Lat]; accedas ad curiam[Lat]; transeat in exemplum[Lat]. #970.
Condemnation.-N. condemnation, conviction, judgment, penalty, # sentence; proscription, damnation; death warrant. attainder, attainture[obs3], attaintment[obs3]. V. condemn, convict, cast, bring home to, find guilty, damn, doom, sign the death warrant, sentence, pass sentence on, attaint, confiscate, proscribe, sequestrate; nonsuit[obs3]. disapprove &c.
938. stand condemned. Adj. condemnatory, damnatory[obs3]; guilty, condemned &c.v.; nonsuited &c. (failure) 732[obs3]; self-convicted. Phr. mutato nomine de te fabula narratur[Lat]; "unrespited, unpitied, unreprieved" [P.L.]. #972.
Punishment.-N. punishment,punition[obs3]; chastisement, chastening; correction, castigation. discipline, infliction, trial; judgment; penalty &c.
974; retribution; thunderbolt, Nemesis; requital &c. (reward) 973; penology; retributive justice. lash, scaffold &c. (instrument of punishment) 975; imprisonment &c. (restraint) 751; transportation, banishment, expulsion, exile, involuntary exile, ostracism; penal servitude, hard labor; galleys &c.
Adj. punishing &c. v.; penal; punitory[obs3], punitive; inflictive, castigatory; punished &c.v.
Phr. culpan paena premit comes [Lat][Horace]; "eating the bitter bread of banishment" [Richard II]; gravis ira regum est semper [Lat][Seneca]; sera tamen tacitis paena venit pedibus [Lat][Tibullus]; suo sibi gladio hunc jugulo [Lat][Terence]. #973.
Penalty.-N. penalty; retribution &c. (punishment) 972; pain, pains and penalties; weregild[obs3], wergild; peine forte et dure[Fr]; penance &c. (atonement) 952; the devil to pay. fine, mulct, amercement; forfeit, forfeiture; escheat[Law], damages, deodand[obs3], sequestration, confiscation, premunire[Lat]; doomage [obs3][U.S.].
Deity, Divinity; Godhead, Godship[obs3]; Omnipotence, Providence; Heaven [metonymically]. [Quality of being divine] divineness[obs3], divinity.
The Trinity, The Holy Trinity, The Trinity in Unity, The Triune God, God the Father Son and Holy Ghost.
V. create, move, uphold, preserve, govern &c. atone, redeem, save, propitiate, mediate &c. predestinate, elect, call, ordain, bless, justify, sanctify, glorify &c.
Adj. almighty, holy, hallowed, sacred, divine, heavenly, celestial; sacrosanct; all-knowing, all-seeing, all-wise; omniscient. superhuman, supernatural; ghostly, spiritual, hyperphysical[obs3], unearthly; theistic, theocratic; anointed; soterial[obs3].
Adj. jure divino[Lat], by divine right.
980. diabolism; devilism[obs3], devilship[obs3]; diabolology[obs3]; satanism, devil worship; manicheism; the cloven foot.
Adj. satanic, diabolic, devilish; infernal, hellborn[obs3]. [1-The slang expressions "the deuce, dickens, old Gentleman; old Nick, old Scratch, old Horny, old Harry, old Gooseberry," have not been inserted in the text.]. 2.
Mythological and other fabulous Deities and Powers #979.
Jupiter.-N. god, goddess; heathen gods and goddesses; deva[obs3]; Jupiter, Jove &c.; pantheon.
Adj. god-like, fairy-like; sylph-like; sylphic[obs3].
Phr. "you moonshine revelers and shades of night" [Merry Wives]. #980.
Adj. demonic, demonical, impish, demoniacal; fiendish, fiend-like; supernatural, weird, uncanny, unearthly, spectral; ghostly, ghost-like; elfin, elvin[obs3], elfish, elflike[obs3]; haunted; pokerish [obs3][U.S.]. possessed, possessed by a devil, possessed by a demon.
Heaven.-N. heaven; kingdom of heaven, kingdom of God; heavenly kingdom; throne of God; presence of God; inheritance of the saints in light.
Adj. heavenly, celestial, supernal, unearthly, from on high, paradisiacal, beatific, elysian.
Phr. "looks through nature up to the nature's god" [Pope]; "the great world;s altarstairs, that slope through darkness up to God" [Tennyson]; "the treasury of everlasting joy" [Henry VI]; vigeur de dessus[Fr]. #982.
Adj. theological, religious; denominational; sectarian &c.
Orthodoxy.-N. orthodoxy; strictness, soundness, religious truth, true faith; truth &c.
Christianity, Christianism[obs3]; Catholicism, Catholicity; "the faith once delivered to the saints"; hyperorthodoxy &c.
Adj. orthodox, sound, strick[obs3], faithful, catholic, schismless[obs3], Christian, evangelical, scriptural, divine, monotheistic; true &c.
Phr. of the true faith. #984.
Heterodoxy. [Sectarianism.]-N. heterodoxy; error &c.
495; false doctrine, heresy, schism; schismaticism[obs3], schismaticalness; recusancy, backsliding, apostasy; atheism &c. (irreligion) 989[obs3]. bigotry &c. (obstinacy) 606; fanaticism, iconoclasm; hyperorthodoxy[obs3], precisianism[obs3], bibliolatry[obs3], sabbatarianism[obs3], puritanism; anthropomorphism; idolatry &c.
991; superstition &c. (credulity) 486; dissent &c.
489. sectarism[obs3], sectarianism; noncomformity[obs3]; secularism; syncretism[obs3], religious sects. protestantism, Arianism[obs3], Adventism, Jansenism, Stundism[obs3], Erastianism[obs3], Calvinism, quakerism[obs3], methodism, anabaptism[obs3], Puseyism, tractarianism[obs3], ritualism, Origenism, Sabellianism, Socinianism[obs3], Deism, Theism, materialism, positivism, latitudinarianism &c.
High Church, Low Church, Broad Church, Free Church; ultramontanism[obs3]; papism, papistry; monkery[obs3]; papacy; Anglicanism, Catholicism, Romanism; popery, Scarlet Lady, Church of Rome, Greek Church. paganism, heathenism, ethicism[obs3]; mythology; polytheism, ditheism[obs3], tritheism[obs3]; dualism; heathendom[obs3].
Catholic, Roman, Catholic, Romanist, papist.
Judaical, Mohammedan, Brahminical[obs3], Buddhist &c.n.; Romish, Protestant &c.n. bigoted &c. (prejudiced) 481, (obstinate) 606; superstitious &c. (credulous) 486; fanatical; idolatrous &c.
991; visionary &c. (imaginative) 515.
Phr. "slave to no sect" [Pope]; superstitione tollenda religio non tollitur [Lat][Cicero]. #985.
Judeo-Christian Revelation.-N. revelation, inspiration, afflatus; theophany[obs3], theopneusty[obs3].
Word, Word of God; Scripture; the Scriptures, the Bible; Holy Writ, Holy Scriptures; inspired writings, Gospel.
Old Testament, Septuagint, Vulgate, Pentateuch; Octateuch; the Law, the Jewish Law, the Prophets; major Prophets, minor Prophets; Hagiographa, Hagiology; Hierographa[obs3]; Apocrypha.
New Testament; Gospels, Evangelists, Acts, Epistles, Apocalypse, Revelations.
Talmud; Mishna, Masorah. prophet &c. (seer) 513; evangelist, apostle, disciple, saint; the Fathers, the Apostolical Fathers[obs3]; Holy Men of old, inspired penmen.
Adj. scriptural, biblical, sacred, prophetic; evangelical, evangelistic; apostolic, apostolical[obs3]; inspired, theopneustic[obs3], theophneusted[obs3], apocalyptic, ecclesiastical, canonical, textuary[obs3]. #986.
Pseudo-Revelation.-N. the Koran, the Alcoran[obs3]; # Lyking[obs3], Vedas, Zendavesta, Avesta[obs3], Sastra, Shastra, Tantra[obs3], Upanishads, Purana, Edda; Book of Mormon. [Non-Biblical prophets and religious founders] Gautama, Buddha; Zoroaster, Confucius, Bab-ed-Din[obs3], Mohammed. [Idols] golden calf &c.
991; Baal[obs3], Moloch, Dagon. 3.
V. be pious &c. adj.; have faith &c. n.; believe, receive Christ; revere &c.
928; be converted &c. convert, edify, sanctify, keep holy, beatify, regenerate, inspire, consecrate, enshrine.
Adj. pious, religious, devout, devoted, reverent, godly, heavenly- minded, humble, pure, holy, spiritual, pietistic; saintly, saint-like; seraphic, sacred, solemn. believing, faithful, Christian, Catholic. elected, adopted, justified, sanctified, regenerated, inspired, consecrated, converted, unearthly, not of the earth.
Phr. ne vile fano[It]; "pure-eyed Faith . . . thou hovering angel girt with golden wings" [Milton]. #988.
V. be impious &c. adj., profane, desecrate, blaspheme, revile, scoff; swear &c. (malediction) 908; commit sacrilege. snuffle; turn up the whites of the eyes; idolize.
Adj. impious; irreligious &c. 989; desecrating &c.v.; profane, irreverent, sacrilegious, blasphemous. un-hallowed, un-sanctified, un-regenerate; hardened, perverted, reprobate. hypocritical &c. (false) 544; canting, pietistical[obs3], sanctimonious, unctuous, pharisaical, overrighteous[obs3], righteous over much. bigoted, fanatical; priest-ridden.
Adv. under the mask of religion, under the cloak of religion, under the pretense of religion, under the form of religion, under the guise of religion.
Phr. giovane santo diavolo vecchio[It]. #989.
485. dechristianize[obs3]. Adj. irreligious; indevout[obs3]; undevout[obs3]; devoutless[obs3], godless, graceless; ungodly, unholy, unsanctified[obs3], unhallowed; atheistic, without God. skeptical, freethinking; unbelieving, unconverted; incredulous, faithless, lacking faith; deistical; unchristian, antichristian[obs3]. worldly, mundane, earthly, carnal; worldly &c. minded. Adv. irreligiously &c. adj. 4.
V. worship, lift up the heart, aspire; revere &c.
Adj. worshipping &c.v.; devout, devotional, reverent, pure, solemn; fervid &c. (heartfelt) 821. Int. hallelujah, allelujah[obs3]! hosanna! glory be to God!
O Lord! pray God that!
God grant, God bless, God save, God forbid! sursum corda [Lat].
Phr. "making their lives a prayer" [Whittier]; ora et labora[Lat]; "prayers ardent open heaven" [Young]. #991.
986[obs3]. V. worship idols, worship pictures, worship relics; deify, canonize. Adj. idolatrous. Phr. adorer le veau d'or[Fr]. #992.
Adj. magic, magical; mystic, weird, cabalistic, talismanic, phylacteric[obs3], incantatory; charmed &c. v.; Circean, odylic[obs3], voodoo. #993.
Sorcerer.-N. sorcerer, magician; thaumaturgist[obs3], theurgist; conjuror, necromancer, seer, wizard, witch; hoodoo, voodoo; fairy &c.
980; lamia[obs3], hag. warlock, charmer, exorcist, mage[obs3]; cunning man, medicine man; Shaman, figure flinger, ecstatica[obs3]; medium, clairvoyant, fortune teller; mesmerist; deus ex machina[Lat]; soothsayer &c.
Katerfelto, Cagliostro, Mesmer, Rosicrucian; Circe, siren, weird sisters. 5.
696; conclave, convocation, synod, consistory, chapter, vestry; sanhedrim, conge d'elire[Fr]; ecclesiastical courts, consistorial court, court of Arches.
V. call, ordain, induct, prefer, translate, consecrate, present. take orders, take the tonsure, take the veil, take vows.
Adj. ecclesiastical, ecclesiological[obs3]; clerical, sacerdotal, priestly, prelatical, pastoral, ministerial, capitular[obs3], theocratic; hierarchical, archiepiscopal; episcopal, episcopalian; canonical; monastic, monachal[obs3]; monkish; abbatial[obs3], abbatical[obs3]; Anglican[obs3]; pontifical, papal, apostolic, Roman, Popish; ultramontane, priest-ridden. #996.
Adj. the Reverend, the very Reverend, the Right Reverend; ordained, in orders, called to the ministry. #997.
Laity.-N. laity, flock, fold, congregation, assembly, # brethren, people; society [U.S.]. temporality, secularization. layman, civilian; parishioner, catechumen; secularist. V. secularize. Adj. secular, lay, laical, civil, temporal, profane. #998.
Eucharist, Lord's supper, communion; the sacrament, the holy sacrament; celebration, high celebration; missa cantata[Lat]; asperges[obs3]; offertory; introit; consecration; consubstantiation, transubstantiation; real presence; elements; mass; high mass, low mass, dry mass. matrimony &c.
Adj. ritual, ritualistic; ceremonial; baptismal, eucharistical; paschal.
Phr. "what art thou, thou idol ceremony?" [Henry V]. #999.
Adj. claustral, cloistered; monastic, monasterial; conventual.
Phr. ne vile fano[It]; "there's nothing ill can dwell in such a temple" [Tempest].
I think I never hated slavery so intensely as at that moment; certainly, my perception of the enormous outrage which is inflicted by it, on the godlike nature of its victims, was rendered far more clear than ever.
He came forward to the platform with a hesitancy and embarrassment, necessarily the attendants of a sensitive mind in such a novel position.
The response was unanimous and in thunder-tones-"NO!" "Will you succor and protect him as a brother-man-a resident of the old Bay State?
COLLINS, whose judgment in this instance entirely coincided with my own.
After much deliberation, however, he consented to make a trial; and ever since that period, he has acted as a lecturing agent, under the auspices either of the American or the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society.
In labors he has been most abundant; and his success in combating prejudice, in gaining proselytes, in agitating the public mind, has far surpassed the most sanguine expectations that were raised at the commencement of his brilliant career.
He has borne himself with gentleness and meekness, yet with true manliness of character.
As a public speaker, he excels in pathos, wit, comparison, imitation, strength of reasoning, and fluency of language.
There is in him that union of head and heart, which is indispensable to an enlightenment of the heads and a winning of the hearts of others.
May his strength continue to be equal to his day!
So much for the humanizing influence of _The Domestic Institution_!
Many have suffered incomparably more, while very few on the plantations have suffered less, than himself.
Why should its existence be prolonged one hour?
Is it not evil, only evil, and that continually?
What does its presence imply but the absence of all fear of God, all regard for man, on the part of the people of the United States?
Heaven speed its eternal overthrow! So profoundly ignorant of the nature of slavery are many persons, that they are stubbornly incredulous whenever they read or listen to any recital of the cruelties which are daily inflicted on its victims.
They do not deny that the slaves are held as property; but that terrible fact seems to convey to their minds no idea of injustice, exposure to outrage, or savage barbarity.
As if all these direful outrages were not the natural results of slavery!
As if it were less cruel to reduce a human being to the condition of a thing, than to give him a severe flagellation, or to deprive him of necessary food and clothing!
As if whips, chains, thumb-screws, paddles, blood-hounds, overseers, drivers, patrols, were not all indispensable to keep the slaves down, and to give protection to their ruthless oppressors!
Skeptics of this character abound in society.
By the slave code, they are adjudged to be as incompetent to testify against a white man, as though they were indeed a part of the brute creation.
Hence, there is no legal protection in fact, whatever there may be in form, for the slave population; and any amount of cruelty may be inflicted on them with impunity.
In the nature of the case, it must be in the highest degree pernicious.
The testimony of _Mr. Douglass_, on this point, is sustained by a cloud of witnesses, whose veracity is unimpeachable.
A slaveholder's profession of Christianity is a palpable imposture.
He is a felon of the highest grade.
It is of no importance what you put in the other scale." Reader! are you with the man-stealers in sympathy and purpose, or on the side of their down-trodden victims?
If with the former, then are you the foe of God and man.
If with the latter, what are you prepared to do and dare in their behalf?
We have been left long enough to gather the character of slavery from the involuntary evidence of the masters.
One might, indeed, rest sufficiently satisfied with what, it is evident, must be, in general, the results of such a relation, without seeking farther to find whether they have followed in every instance.
Indeed, those who stare at the half-peck of corn a week, and love to count the lashes on the slave's back, are seldom the "stuff" out of which reformers and abolitionists are to be made.
I remember that, in 1838, many were waiting for the results of the West India experiment, before they could come into our ranks.
Those "results" have come long ago; but, alas! few of that number have come with them, as converts.
You come from that part of the country where we are told slavery appears with its fairest features.
Every one who has heard you speak has felt, and, I am confident, every one who reads your book will feel, persuaded that you give them a fair specimen of the whole truth.
No one-sided portrait,-no wholesale complaints,-but strict justice done, whenever individual kindliness has neutralized, for a moment, the deadly system with which it was strangely allied.
You have been with us, too, some years, and can fairly compare the twilight of rights, which your race enjoy at the North, with that "noon of night" under which they labor south of Mason and Dixon's line.
We know that the bitter drops, which even you have drained from the cup, are no incidental aggravations, no individual ills, but such as must mingle always and necessarily in the lot of every slave.
They are the essential ingredients, not the occasional results, of the system. After all, I shall read your book with trembling for you.
Some years ago, when you were beginning to tell me your real name and birthplace, you may remember I stopped you, and preferred to remain ignorant of all.
With the exception of a vague description, so I continued, till the other day, when you read me your memoirs.
I hardly knew, at the time, whether to thank you or not for the sight of them, when I reflected that it was still dangerous, in Massachusetts, for honest men to tell their names!
They say the fathers, in 1776, signed the Declaration of Independence with the halter about their necks.
You, too, publish your declaration of freedom with danger compassing you around.
In all the broad lands which the Constitution of the United States overshadows, there is no single spot,-however narrow or desolate,-where a fugitive slave can plant himself and say, "I am safe.
The whole armory of Northern Law has no shield for you.
He was not sure of the exact year of his birth, but he knew that it was 1817 or 1818.
As a young boy he was sent to Baltimore, to be a house servant, where he learned to read and write, with the assistance of his master's wife.
In 1838 he escaped from slavery and went to New York City, where he married Anna Murray, a free colored woman whom he had met in Baltimore. Soon thereafter he changed his name to Frederick Douglass.
In 1841 he addressed a convention of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society in Nantucket and so greatly impressed the group that they immediately employed him as an agent.
He was such an impressive orator that numerous persons doubted if he had ever been a slave, so he wrote _Narrative Of The Life Of Frederick Douglass_.
During the Civil War he assisted in the recruiting of colored men for the 54th and 55th Massachusetts Regiments and consistently argued for the emancipation of slaves.
After the war he was active in securing and protecting the rights of the freemen.
He died in 1895. CHAPTER I I was born in Tuckahoe, near Hillsborough, and about twelve miles from Easton, in Talbot county, Maryland.
I have no accurate knowledge of my age, never having seen any authentic record containing it.
By far the larger part of the slaves know as little of their ages as horses know of theirs, and it is the wish of most masters within my knowledge to keep their slaves thus ignorant.
I do not remember to have ever met a slave who could tell of his birthday.
They seldom come nearer to it than planting-time, harvest-time, cherry-time, spring-time, or fall-time.
A want of information concerning my own was a source of unhappiness to me even during childhood.
The white children could tell their ages.
I could not tell why I ought to be deprived of the same privilege.
I was not allowed to make any inquiries of my master concerning it.
He deemed all such inquiries on the part of a slave improper and impertinent, and evidence of a restless spirit.
The nearest estimate I can give makes me now between twenty-seven and twenty-eight years of age.
I come to this, from hearing my master say, some time during 1835, I was about seventeen years old. My mother was named Harriet Bailey.
She was the daughter of Isaac and Betsey Bailey, both colored, and quite dark.
My mother was of a darker complexion than either my grandmother or grandfather. My father was a white man.
He was admitted to be such by all I ever heard speak of my parentage.
The opinion was also whispered that my master was my father; but of the correctness of this opinion, I know nothing; the means of knowing was withheld from me.
She was hired by a Mr. Stewart, who lived about twelve miles from my home.
She made her journeys to see me in the night, travelling the whole distance on foot, after the performance of her day's work.
I do not recollect of ever seeing my mother by the light of day.
She was with me in the night.
She would lie down with me, and get me to sleep, but long before I waked she was gone.
Very little communication ever took place between us.
Death soon ended what little we could have while she lived, and with it her hardships and suffering. She died when I was about seven years old, on one of my master's farms, near Lee's Mill.
I was not allowed to be present during her illness, at her death, or burial.
She was gone long before I knew any thing about it.
They are, in the first place, a constant offence to their mistress.
It was doubtless in consequence of a knowledge of this fact, that one great statesman of the south predicted the downfall of slavery by the inevitable laws of population.
My first master's name was Anthony.
I do not remember his first name.
He was generally called Captain Anthony-a title which, I presume, he acquired by sailing a craft on the Chesapeake Bay.
He was not considered a rich slaveholder.
He owned two or three farms, and about thirty slaves.
His farms and slaves were under the care of an overseer.
The overseer's name was Plummer.
Mr. Plummer was a miserable drunkard, a profane swearer, and a savage monster.
He always went armed with a cowskin and a heavy cudgel.
I have known him to cut and slash the women's heads so horribly, that even master would be enraged at his cruelty, and would threaten to whip him if he did not mind himself.
Master, however, was not a humane slaveholder.
It required extraordinary barbarity on the part of an overseer to affect him.
He was a cruel man, hardened by a long life of slaveholding.
He would at times seem to take great pleasure in whipping a slave.
No words, no tears, no prayers, from his gory victim, seemed to move his iron heart from its bloody purpose.
The louder she screamed, the harder he whipped; and where the blood ran fastest, there he whipped longest.
He would whip her to make her scream, and whip her to make her hush; and not until overcome by fatigue, would he cease to swing the blood-clotted cowskin.
I remember the first time I ever witnessed this horrible exhibition.
I was quite a child, but I well remember it.
I never shall forget it whilst I remember any thing.
It was the first of a long series of such outrages, of which I was doomed to be a witness and a participant.
It struck me with awful force.
It was the blood-stained gate, the entrance to the hell of slavery, through which I was about to pass.
It was a most terrible spectacle.
I wish I could commit to paper the feelings with which I beheld it. This occurrence took place very soon after I went to live with my old master, and under the following circumstances.
Aunt Hester went out one night,-where or for what I do not know,-and happened to be absent when my master desired her presence.
He had ordered her not to go out evenings, and warned her that she must never let him catch her in company with a young man, who was paying attention to her belonging to Colonel Lloyd.
The young man's name was Ned Roberts, generally called Lloyd's Ned.
Why master was so careful of her, may be safely left to conjecture.
Had he been a man of pure morals himself, he might have been thought interested in protecting the innocence of my aunt; but those who knew him will not suspect him of any such virtue.
Before he commenced whipping Aunt Hester, he took her into the kitchen, and stripped her from neck to waist, leaving her neck, shoulders, and back, entirely naked.
He then told her to cross her hands, calling her at the same time a d--d b--h.
After crossing her hands, he tied them with a strong rope, and led her to a stool under a large hook in the joist, put in for the purpose.
He made her get upon the stool, and tied her hands to the hook.
She now stood fair for his infernal purpose.
Her arms were stretched up at their full length, so that she stood upon the ends of her toes.
I was so terrified and horror-stricken at the sight, that I hid myself in a closet, and dared not venture out till long after the bloody transaction was over.
I expected it would be my turn next.
It was all new to me.
I had never seen any thing like it before.
I had always lived with my grandmother on the outskirts of the plantation, where she was put to raise the children of the younger women.
They lived in one house, upon the home plantation of Colonel Edward Lloyd.
My master was Colonel Lloyd's clerk and superintendent.
He was what might be called the overseer of the overseers.
I spent two years of childhood on this plantation in my old master's family.
It was here that I witnessed the bloody transaction recorded in the first chapter; and as I received my first impressions of slavery on this plantation, I will give some description of it, and of slavery as it there existed.
The plantation is about twelve miles north of Easton, in Talbot county, and is situated on the border of Miles River.
The principal products raised upon it were tobacco, corn, and wheat.
These were raised in great abundance; so that, with the products of this and the other farms belonging to him, he was able to keep in almost constant employment a large sloop, in carrying them to market at Baltimore.
This sloop was named Sally Lloyd, in honor of one of the colonel's daughters.
My master's son-in-law, Captain Auld, was master of the vessel; she was otherwise manned by the colonel's own slaves.
Their names were Peter, Isaac, Rich, and Jake.
The names of the farms nearest to the home plantation were Wye Town and New Design.
Wye Town" was under the overseership of a man named Noah Willis.
New Design was under the overseership of a Mr. Townsend.
The overseers of these, and all the rest of the farms, numbering over twenty, received advice and direction from the managers of the home plantation.
This was the great business place.
It was the seat of government for the whole twenty farms.
All disputes among the overseers were settled here.
The men and women slaves received, as their monthly allowance of food, eight pounds of pork, or its equivalent in fish, and one bushel of corn meal.
This, however, is not considered a very great privation.
I have seen him whip a woman, causing the blood to run half an hour at the time; and this, too, in the midst of her crying children, pleading for their mother's release.
He seemed to take pleasure in manifesting his fiendish barbarity.
Added to his cruelty, he was a profane swearer.
It was enough to chill the blood and stiffen the hair of an ordinary man to hear him talk.
Scarce a sentence escaped him but that was commenced or concluded by some horrid oath.
The field was the place to witness his cruelty and profanity.
His presence made it both the field of blood and of blasphemy.
From the rising till the going down of the sun, he was cursing, raving, cutting, and slashing among the slaves of the field, in the most frightful manner.
He died very soon after I went to Colonel Lloyd's; and he died as he lived, uttering, with his dying groans, bitter curses and horrid oaths.
His death was regarded by the slaves as the result of a merciful providence. Mr. Severe's place was filled by a Mr. Hopkins.
He was a very different man.
He was less cruel, less profane, and made less noise, than Mr. Severe.
His course was characterized by no extraordinary demonstrations of cruelty.
He whipped, but seemed to take no pleasure in it.
He was called by the slaves a good overseer. The home plantation of Colonel Lloyd wore the appearance of a country village.
All the mechanical operations for all the farms were performed here.
The shoemaking and mending, the blacksmithing, cartwrighting, coopering, weaving, and grain-grinding, were all performed by the slaves on the home plantation.
The whole place wore a business-like aspect very unlike the neighboring farms.
The number of houses, too, conspired to give it advantage over the neighboring farms.
It was called by the slaves the _Great House Farm._ Few privileges were esteemed higher, by the slaves of the out-farms, than that of being selected to do errands at the Great House Farm.
It was associated in their minds with greatness.
A representative could not be prouder of his election to a seat in the American Congress, than a slave on one of the out-farms would be of his election to do errands at the Great House Farm.
He was called the smartest and most trusty fellow, who had this honor conferred upon him the most frequently.
The competitors for this office sought as diligently to please their overseers, as the office-seekers in the political parties seek to please and deceive the people.
While on their way, they would make the dense old woods, for miles around, reverberate with their wild songs, revealing at once the highest joy and the deepest sadness.
They would compose and sing as they went along, consulting neither time nor tune.
The thought that came up, came out-if not in the word, in the sound;-and as frequently in the one as in the other.
They would sometimes sing the most pathetic sentiment in the most rapturous tone, and the most rapturous sentiment in the most pathetic tone.
Into all of their songs they would manage to weave something of the Great House Farm.
Especially would they do this, when leaving home.
They would then sing most exultingly the following words:- "I am going away to the Great House Farm! O, yea!
O!" This they would sing, as a chorus, to words which to many would seem unmeaning jargon, but which, nevertheless, were full of meaning to themselves.
I was myself within the circle; so that I neither saw nor heard as those without might see and hear.
They told a tale of woe which was then altogether beyond my feeble comprehension; they were tones loud, long, and deep; they breathed the prayer and complaint of souls boiling over with the bitterest anguish.
Every tone was a testimony against slavery, and a prayer to God for deliverance from chains.
The hearing of those wild notes always depressed my spirit, and filled me with ineffable sadness.
I have frequently found myself in tears while hearing them.
The mere recurrence to those songs, even now, afflicts me; and while I am writing these lines, an expression of feeling has already found its way down my cheek.
To those songs I trace my first glimmering conception of the dehumanizing character of slavery.
I can never get rid of that conception.
Those songs still follow me, to deepen my hatred of slavery, and quicken my sympathies for my brethren in bonds.
It is impossible to conceive of a greater mistake.
Slaves sing most when they are most unhappy.
The songs of the slave represent the sorrows of his heart; and he is relieved by them, only as an aching heart is relieved by its tears.
At least, such is my experience.
I have often sung to drown my sorrow, but seldom to express my happiness.
Crying for joy, and singing for joy, were alike uncommon to me while in the jaws of slavery.
During the summer months, people came from far and near-from Baltimore, Easton, and Annapolis-to see it.
It abounded in fruits of almost every description, from the hardy apple of the north to the delicate orange of the south.
This garden was not the least source of trouble on the plantation.
The colonel had to resort to all kinds of stratagems to keep his slaves out of the garden.
This plan worked well; the slaves became as fearful of tar as of the lash.
They seemed to realize the impossibility of touching _tar_ without being defiled. The colonel also kept a splendid riding equipage.
His stable and carriage-house presented the appearance of some of our large city livery establishments.
His horses were of the finest form and noblest blood.
His carriage-house contained three splendid coaches, three or four gigs, besides dearborns and barouches of the most fashionable style. This establishment was under the care of two slaves-old Barney and young Barney-father and son.
To attend to this establishment was their sole work.
They never knew when they were safe from punishment.
They were frequently whipped when least deserving, and escaped whipping when most deserving it.
Every thing depended upon the looks of the horses, and the state of Colonel Lloyd's own mind when his horses were brought to him for use.
If a horse did not move fast enough, or hold his head high enough, it was owing to some fault of his keepers.
It was painful to stand near the stable-door, and hear the various complaints against the keepers when a horse was taken out for use.
This horse has not had proper attention.
To all these complaints, no matter how unjust, the slave must answer never a word.
Colonel Lloyd could not brook any contradiction from a slave. When he spoke, a slave must stand, listen, and tremble; and such was literally the case.
Colonel Lloyd had three sons-Edward, Murray, and Daniel,-and three sons-in-law, Mr. Winder, Mr. Nicholson, and Mr. Lowndes.
All of these lived at the Great House Farm, and enjoyed the luxury of whipping the servants when they pleased, from old Barney down to William Wilkes, the coach-driver.
He kept from ten to fifteen house-servants.
He was said to own a thousand slaves, and I think this estimate quite within the truth.
Colonel Lloyd owned so many that he did not know them when he saw them; nor did all the slaves of the out-farms know him.
To Colonel Lloyd," replied the slave.
Well, does the colonel treat you well?
No, sir," was the ready reply.
What, does he work you too hard?
Well, don't he give you enough to eat?
Yes, sir, he gives me enough, such as it is." The colonel, after ascertaining where the slave belonged, rode on; the man also went on about his business, not dreaming that he had been conversing with his master.
He thought, said, and heard nothing more of the matter, until two or three weeks afterwards.
The poor man was then informed by his overseer that, for having found fault with his master, he was now to be sold to a Georgia trader.
He was immediately chained and handcuffed; and thus, without a moment's warning, he was snatched away, and forever sundered, from his family and friends, by a hand more unrelenting than death.
The frequency of this has had the effect to establish among the slaves the maxim, that a still tongue makes a wise head.
They suppress the truth rather than take the consequences of telling it, and in so doing prove themselves a part of the human family.
If they have any thing to say of their masters, it is generally in their masters' favor, especially when speaking to an untried man.
Moreover, slaves are like other people, and imbibe prejudices quite common to others.
They think their own better than that of others.
Many, under the influence of this prejudice, think their own masters are better than the masters of other slaves; and this, too, in some cases, when the very reverse is true.
Indeed, it is not uncommon for slaves even to fall out and quarrel among themselves about the relative goodness of their masters, each contending for the superior goodness of his own over that of the others.
At the very same time, they mutually execrate their masters when viewed separately.
It was so on our plantation.
It was considered as being bad enough to be a slave; but to be a poor man's slave was deemed a disgrace indeed! CHAPTER IV Mr. Hopkins remained but a short time in the office of overseer.
Why his career was so short, I do not know, but suppose he lacked the necessary severity to suit Colonel Lloyd.
Mr. Hopkins was succeeded by Mr. Austin Gore, a man possessing, in an eminent degree, all those traits of character indispensable to what is called a first-rate overseer.
He was artful, cruel, and obdurate.
He was just the man for such a place, and it was just the place for such a man.
It afforded scope for the full exercise of all his powers, and he seemed to be perfectly at home in it.
No matter how innocent a slave might be-it availed him nothing, when accused by Mr. Gore of any misdemeanor.
To be accused was to be convicted, and to be convicted was to be punished; the one always following the other with immutable certainty.
To escape punishment was to escape accusation; and few slaves had the fortune to do either, under the overseership of Mr. Gore.
He was just proud enough to demand the most debasing homage of the slave, and quite servile enough to crouch, himself, at the feet of the master.
He was ambitious enough to be contented with nothing short of the highest rank of overseers, and persevering enough to reach the height of his ambition.
He was cruel enough to inflict the severest punishment, artful enough to descend to the lowest trickery, and obdurate enough to be insensible to the voice of a reproving conscience.
He was, of all the overseers, the most dreaded by the slaves.
His words were in perfect keeping with his looks, and his looks were in perfect keeping with his words.
Overseers will sometimes indulge in a witty word, even with the slaves; not so with Mr. Gore.
He spoke but to command, and commanded but to be obeyed; he dealt sparingly with his words, and bountifully with his whip, never using the former where the latter would answer as well.
When he whipped, he seemed to do so from a sense of duty, and feared no consequences.
He did nothing reluctantly, no matter how disagreeable; always at his post, never inconsistent.
He never promised but to fulfil.
Mr. Gore once undertook to whip one of Colonel Lloyd's slaves, by the name of Demby.
He had given Demby but few stripes, when, to get rid of the scourging, he ran and plunged himself into a creek, and stood there at the depth of his shoulders, refusing to come out.
Mr. Gore told him that he would give him three calls, and that, if he did not come out at the third call, he would shoot him.
The first call was given.
Demby made no response, but stood his ground.
The second and third calls were given with the same result.
He alone seemed cool and collected.
He was asked by Colonel Lloyd and my old master, why he resorted to this extraordinary expedient.
His reply was, (as well as I can remember,) that Demby had become unmanageable.
He was setting a dangerous example to the other slaves,-one which, if suffered to pass without some such demonstration on his part, would finally lead to the total subversion of all rule and order upon the plantation.
He argued that if one slave refused to be corrected, and escaped with his life, the other slaves would soon copy the example; the result of which would be, the freedom of the slaves, and the enslavement of the whites.
Mr. Gore's defence was satisfactory. He was continued in his station as overseer upon the home plantation. His fame as an overseer went abroad.
His horrid crime was not even submitted to judicial investigation.
Mr. Thomas Lanman, of St. Michael's, killed two slaves, one of whom he killed with a hatchet, by knocking his brains out.
He used to boast of the commission of the awful and bloody deed.
She was immediately buried, but had not been in her untimely grave but a few hours before she was taken up and examined by the coroner, who decided that she had come to her death by severe beating.
The offence for which this girl was thus murdered was this:-She had been set that night to mind Mrs. Hicks's baby, and during the night she fell asleep, and the baby cried.
She, having lost her rest for several nights previous, did not hear the crying.
They were both in the room with Mrs. Hicks.
Mrs. Hicks, finding the girl slow to move, jumped from her bed, seized an oak stick of wood by the fireplace, and with it broke the girl's nose and breastbone, and thus ended her life.
I will not say that this most horrid murder produced no sensation in the community.
It did produce sensation, but not enough to bring the murderess to punishment.
There was a warrant issued for her arrest, but it was never served.
An old man belonging to Colonel Lloyd, while thus engaged, happened to get beyond the limits of Colonel Lloyd's, and on the premises of Mr. Beal Bondly.
At any rate, this whole fiendish transaction was soon hushed up. There was very little said about it at all, and nothing done.
I was not old enough to work in the field, and there being little else than field work to do, I had a great deal of leisure time.
The most I had to do was to drive up the cows at evening, keep the fowls out of the garden, keep the front yard clean, and run of errands for my old master's daughter, Mrs. Lucretia Auld.
The most of my leisure time I spent in helping Master Daniel Lloyd in finding his birds, after he had shot them.
My connection with Master Daniel was of some advantage to me.
He became quite attached to me, and was a sort of protector of me.
He would not allow the older boys to impose upon me, and would divide his cakes with me. I was seldom whipped by my old master, and suffered little from any thing else than hunger and cold.
I suffered much from hunger, but much more from cold.
In hottest summer and coldest winter, I was kept almost naked-no shoes, no stockings, no jacket, no trousers, nothing on but a coarse tow linen shirt, reaching only to my knees.
I must have perished with cold, but that, the coldest nights, I used to steal a bag which was used for carrying corn to the mill.
I would crawl into this bag, and there sleep on the cold, damp, clay floor, with my head in and feet out.
My feet have been so cracked with the frost, that the pen with which I am writing might be laid in the gashes. We were not regularly allowanced.
Our food was coarse corn meal boiled. This was called _mush_.
It was put into a large wooden tray or trough, and set down upon the ground.
The children were then called, like so many pigs, and like so many pigs they would come and devour the mush; some with oyster-shells, others with pieces of shingle, some with naked hands, and none with spoons.
He that ate fastest got most; he that was strongest secured the best place; and few left the trough satisfied. I was probably between seven and eight years old when I left Colonel Lloyd's plantation.
I left it with joy.
They were three of the happiest days I ever enjoyed.
I spent the most part of all these three days in the creek, washing off the plantation scurf, and preparing myself for my departure. The pride of appearance which this would indicate was not my own.
Besides, she was going to give me a pair of trousers, which I should not put on unless I got all the dirt off me.
The thought of owning a pair of trousers was great indeed!
It was almost a sufficient motive, not only to make me take off what would be called by pig-drovers the mange, but the skin itself.
I went at it in good earnest, working for the first time with the hope of reward. The ties that ordinarily bind children to their homes were all suspended in my case.
I found no severe trial in my departure.
My home was charmless; it was not home to me; on parting from it, I could not feel that I was leaving any thing which I could have enjoyed by staying.
My mother was dead, my grandmother lived far off, so that I seldom saw her.
I had two sisters and one brother, that lived in the same house with me; but the early separation of us from our mother had well nigh blotted the fact of our relationship from our memories.
I looked for home elsewhere, and was confident of finding none which I should relish less than the one which I was leaving.
If, however, I found in my new home hardship, hunger, whipping, and nakedness, I had the consolation that I should not have escaped any one of them by staying.
I had the strongest desire to see Baltimore.
Cousin Tom, though not fluent in speech, had inspired me with that desire by his eloquent description of the place.
I could never point out any thing at the Great House, no matter how beautiful or powerful, but that he had seen something at Baltimore far exceeding, both in beauty and strength, the object which I pointed out to him.
Even the Great House itself, with all its pictures, was far inferior to many buildings in Baltimore.
So strong was my desire, that I thought a gratification of it would fully compensate for whatever loss of comforts I should sustain by the exchange.
I left without a regret, and with the highest hopes of future happiness. We sailed out of Miles River for Baltimore on a Saturday morning.
I remember only the day of the week, for at that time I had no knowledge of the days of the month, nor the months of the year.
On setting sail, I walked aft, and gave to Colonel Lloyd's plantation what I hoped would be the last look.
We stopped but a few moments, so that I had no time to go on shore.
It was a new and strange sight to me, brightening up my pathway with the light of happiness.
Going to live at Baltimore laid the foundation, and opened the gateway, to all my subsequent prosperity.
I have ever regarded it as the first plain manifestation of that kind providence which has ever since attended me, and marked my life with so many favors.
I regarded the selection of myself as being somewhat remarkable.
There were a number of slave children that might have been sent from the plantation to Baltimore.
There were those younger, those older, and those of the same age.
I was chosen from among them all, and was the first, last, and only choice. I may be deemed superstitious, and even egotistical, in regarding this event as a special interposition of divine Providence in my favor.
But I should be false to the earliest sentiments of my soul, if I suppressed the opinion.
I prefer to be true to myself, even at the hazard of incurring the ridicule of others, rather than to be false, and incur my own abhorrence.
I was utterly astonished at her goodness.
I scarcely knew how to behave towards her.
She was entirely unlike any other white woman I had ever seen.
I could not approach her as I was accustomed to approach other white ladies.
My early instruction was all out of place.
The crouching servility, usually so acceptable a quality in a slave, did not answer when manifested toward her.
Her favor was not gained by it; she seemed to be disturbed by it. She did not deem it impudent or unmannerly for a slave to look her in the face.
The meanest slave was put fully at ease in her presence, and none left without feeling better for having seen her.
Her face was made of heavenly smiles, and her voice of tranquil music. But, alas! this kind heart had but a short time to remain such.
The fatal poison of irresponsible power was already in her hands, and soon commenced its infernal work.
After I had learned this, she assisted me in learning to spell words of three or four letters.
To use his own words, further, he said, "If you give a nigger an inch, he will take an ell.
A nigger should know nothing but to obey his master-to do as he is told to do.
Learning would _spoil_ the best nigger in the world.
Now," said he, "if you teach that nigger (speaking of myself) how to read, there would be no keeping him.
It would forever unfit him to be a slave.
He would at once become unmanageable, and of no value to his master.
As to himself, it could do him no good, but a great deal of harm.
It would make him discontented and unhappy.
I now understood what had been to me a most perplexing difficulty-to wit, the white man's power to enslave the black man.
It was a grand achievement, and I prized it highly.
From that moment, I understood the pathway from slavery to freedom.
It was just what I wanted, and I got it at a time when I the least expected it.
Whilst I was saddened by the thought of losing the aid of my kind mistress, I was gladdened by the invaluable instruction which, by the merest accident, I had gained from my master.
Though conscious of the difficulty of learning without a teacher, I set out with high hope, and a fixed purpose, at whatever cost of trouble, to learn how to read.
The very decided manner with which he spoke, and strove to impress his wife with the evil consequences of giving me instruction, served to convince me that he was deeply sensible of the truths he was uttering.
It gave me the best assurance that I might rely with the utmost confidence on the results which, he said, would flow from teaching me to read.
What he most dreaded, that I most desired.
What he most loved, that I most hated.
In learning to read, I owe almost as much to the bitter opposition of my master, as to the kindly aid of my mistress.
I acknowledge the benefit of both. I had resided but a short time in Baltimore before I observed a marked difference, in the treatment of slaves, from that which I had witnessed in the country.
A city slave is almost a freeman, compared with a slave on the plantation.
He is much better fed and clothed, and enjoys privileges altogether unknown to the slave on the plantation.
There is a vestige of decency, a sense of shame, that does much to curb and check those outbreaks of atrocious cruelty so commonly enacted upon the plantation.
He is a desperate slaveholder, who will shock the humanity of his non-slaveholding neighbors with the cries of his lacerated slave.
Few are willing to incur the odium attaching to the reputation of being a cruel master; and above all things, they would not be known as not giving a slave enough to eat.
Directly opposite to us, on Philpot Street, lived Mr. Thomas Hamilton.
Their names were Henrietta and Mary.
Henrietta was about twenty-two years of age, Mary was about fourteen; and of all the mangled and emaciated creatures I ever looked upon, these two were the most so.
His heart must be harder than stone, that could look upon these unmoved.
The head, neck, and shoulders of Mary were literally cut to pieces.
I have frequently felt her head, and found it nearly covered with festering sores, caused by the lash of her cruel mistress.
I do not know that her master ever whipped her, but I have been an eye-witness to the cruelty of Mrs. Hamilton.
I used to be in Mr. Hamilton's house nearly every day.
The girls seldom passed her without her saying, "Move faster, you _black gip!_" at the same time giving them a blow with the cowskin over the head or shoulders, often drawing the blood.
She would then say, "Take that, you _black gip!_" continuing, "If you don't move faster, I'll move you!
Added to the cruel lashings to which these slaves were subjected, they were kept nearly half-starved.
They seldom knew what it was to eat a full meal.
I have seen Mary contending with the pigs for the offal thrown into the street.
So much was Mary kicked and cut to pieces, that she was oftener called "_pecked_" than by her name. CHAPTER VII I lived in Master Hugh's family about seven years.
During this time, I succeeded in learning to read and write.
In accomplishing this, I was compelled to resort to various stratagems.
I had no regular teacher.
My mistress, who had kindly commenced to instruct me, had, in compliance with the advice and direction of her husband, not only ceased to instruct, but had set her face against my being instructed by any one else.
It is due, however, to my mistress to say of her, that she did not adopt this course of treatment immediately.
She at first lacked the depravity indispensable to shutting me up in mental darkness.
Slavery proved as injurious to her as it did to me. When I went there, she was a pious, warm, and tender-hearted woman. There was no sorrow or suffering for which she had not a tear.
She had bread for the hungry, clothes for the naked, and comfort for every mourner that came within her reach.
Slavery soon proved its ability to divest her of these heavenly qualities.
Under its influence, the tender heart became stone, and the lamblike disposition gave way to one of tiger-like fierceness.
The first step in her downward course was in her ceasing to instruct me.
She now commenced to practise her husband's precepts.
She finally became even more violent in her opposition than her husband himself.
She was not satisfied with simply doing as well as he had commanded; she seemed anxious to do better.
Nothing seemed to make her more angry than to see me with a newspaper.
She seemed to think that here lay the danger.
I have had her rush at me with a face made all up of fury, and snatch from me a newspaper, in a manner that fully revealed her apprehension.
She was an apt woman; and a little experience soon demonstrated, to her satisfaction, that education and slavery were incompatible with each other. From this time I was most narrowly watched.
If I was in a separate room any considerable length of time, I was sure to be suspected of having a book, and was at once called to give an account of myself.
All this, however, was too late.
The first step had been taken.
As many of these as I could, I converted into teachers. With their kindly aid, obtained at different times and in different places, I finally succeeded in learning to read.
When I was sent of errands, I always took my book with me, and by going one part of my errand quickly, I found time to get a lesson before my return.
This bread I used to bestow upon the hungry little urchins, who, in return, would give me that more valuable bread of knowledge.
It is enough to say of the dear little fellows, that they lived on Philpot Street, very near Durgin and Bailey's ship-yard. I used to talk this matter of slavery over with them.
I would sometimes say to them, I wished I could be as free as they would be when they got to be men.
Just about this time, I got hold of a book entitled "The Columbian Orator.
Every opportunity I got, I used to read this book.
Among much of other interesting matter, I found in it a dialogue between a master and his slave.
The slave was represented as having run away from his master three times.
The dialogue represented the conversation which took place between them, when the slave was retaken the third time.
In this dialogue, the whole argument in behalf of slavery was brought forward by the master, all of which was disposed of by the slave.
These were choice documents to me. I read them over and over again with unabated interest.
They gave tongue to interesting thoughts of my own soul, which had frequently flashed through my mind, and died away for want of utterance.
The moral which I gained from the dialogue was the power of truth over the conscience of even a slaveholder.
The more I read, the more I was led to abhor and detest my enslavers.
I could regard them in no other light than a band of successful robbers, who had left their homes, and gone to Africa, and stolen us from our homes, and in a strange land reduced us to slavery.
I loathed them as being the meanest as well as the most wicked of men.
As I read and contemplated the subject, behold! that very discontentment which Master Hugh had predicted would follow my learning to read had already come, to torment and sting my soul to unutterable anguish.
As I writhed under it, I would at times feel that learning to read had been a curse rather than a blessing.
It had given me a view of my wretched condition, without the remedy.
It opened my eyes to the horrible pit, but to no ladder upon which to get out.
In moments of agony, I envied my fellow-slaves for their stupidity.
I have often wished myself a beast.
I preferred the condition of the meanest reptile to my own.
Any thing, no matter what, to get rid of thinking!
It was this everlasting thinking of my condition that tormented me.
There was no getting rid of it.
It was pressed upon me by every object within sight or hearing, animate or inanimate.
The silver trump of freedom had roused my soul to eternal wakefulness.
Freedom now appeared, to disappear no more forever.
It was heard in every sound, and seen in every thing.
It was ever present to torment me with a sense of my wretched condition.
I saw nothing without seeing it, I heard nothing without hearing it, and felt nothing without feeling it.
While in this state of mind, I was eager to hear any one speak of slavery.
I was a ready listener.
Every little while, I could hear something about the abolitionists.
It was some time before I found what the word meant.
It was always used in such connections as to make it an interesting word to me.
The dictionary afforded me little or no help.
I found it was "the act of abolishing;" but then I did not know what was to be abolished.
I did not dare to ask any one about its meaning, for I was satisfied that it was something they wanted me to know very little about.
From this time I understood the words _abolition_ and _abolitionist,_ and always drew near when that word was spoken, expecting to hear something of importance to myself and fellow-slaves. The light broke in upon me by degrees.
I went one day down on the wharf of Mr. Waters; and seeing two Irishmen unloading a scow of stone, I went, unasked, and helped them.
When we had finished, one of them came to me and asked me if I were a slave.
I told him I was.
He asked, "Are ye a slave for life?
I told him that I was.
The good Irishman seemed to be deeply affected by the statement.
He said to the other that it was a pity so fine a little fellow as myself should be a slave for life.
He said it was a shame to hold me.
They both advised me to run away to the north; that I should find friends there, and that I should be free.
I pretended not to be interested in what they said, and treated them as if I did not understand them; for I feared they might be treacherous.
White men have been known to encourage slaves to escape, and then, to get the reward, catch them and return them to their masters.
I was afraid that these seemingly good men might use me so; but I nevertheless remembered their advice, and from that time I resolved to run away.
I looked forward to a time at which it would be safe for me to escape.
I was too young to think of doing so immediately; besides, I wished to learn how to write, as I might have occasion to write my own pass.
I consoled myself with the hope that I should one day find a good chance.
When a piece of timber was intended for the larboard side, it would be marked thus-"L.
When a piece was for the starboard side, it would be marked thus-"S.
A piece for the larboard side forward, would be marked thus-"L.
When a piece was for starboard side forward, it would be marked thus-"S.
For larboard aft, it would be marked thus-"L.
For starboard aft, it would be marked thus-"S.
I soon learned the names of these letters, and for what they were intended when placed upon a piece of timber in the ship-yard.
I immediately commenced copying them, and in a short time was able to make the four letters named.
After that, when I met with any boy who I knew could write, I would tell him I could write as well as he.
The next word would be, "I don't believe you.
Let me see you try it.
I would then make the letters which I had been so fortunate as to learn, and ask him to beat that.
With these, I learned mainly how to write.
I then commenced and continued copying the Italics in Webster's Spelling Book, until I could make them all without looking on the book.
My mistress used to go to class meeting at the Wilk Street meetinghouse every Monday afternoon, and leave me to take care of the house.
When left thus, I used to spend the time in writing in the spaces left in Master Thomas's copy-book, copying what he had written.
I continued to do this until I could write a hand very similar to that of Master Thomas.
He died while on a visit to see his daughter at Hillsborough.
Cut off thus unexpectedly, he left no will as to the disposal of his property.
It was therefore necessary to have a valuation of the property, that it might be equally divided between Mrs. Lucretia and Master Andrew.
I was immediately sent for, to be valued with the other property.
Here again my feelings rose up in detestation of slavery.
I had now a new conception of my degraded condition.
Prior to this, I had become, if not insensible to my lot, at least partly so.
I left Baltimore with a young heart overborne with sadness, and a soul full of apprehension.
I took passage with Captain Rowe, in the schooner Wild Cat, and, after a sail of about twenty-four hours, I found myself near the place of my birth.
I had now been absent from it almost, if not quite, five years. I, however, remembered the place very well.
Silvery-headed age and sprightly youth, maids and matrons, had to undergo the same indelicate inspection.
At this moment, I saw more clearly than ever the brutalizing effects of slavery upon both slave and slaveholder. After the valuation, then came the division.
I have no language to express the high excitement and deep anxiety which were felt among us poor slaves during this time.
Our fate for life was now to be decided. We had no more voice in that decision than the brutes among whom we were ranked.
A single word from the white men was enough-against all our wishes, prayers, and entreaties-to sunder forever the dearest friends, dearest kindred, and strongest ties known to human beings.
In addition to the pain of separation, there was the horrid dread of falling into the hands of Master Andrew.
He was known to us all as being a most cruel wretch,-a common drunkard, who had, by his reckless mismanagement and profligate dissipation, already wasted a large portion of his father's property.
I had known what it was to be kindly treated; they had known nothing of the kind.
They had seen little or nothing of the world.
They were in very deed men and women of sorrow, and acquainted with grief.
Their joy at my return equalled their sorrow at my departure.
It was a glad day to me.
I had escaped a worse than lion's jaws.
Now all the property of my old master, slaves included, was in the hands of strangers,-strangers who had had nothing to do with accumulating it.
Not a slave was left free. All remained slaves, from the youngest to the oldest.
If any one thing in my experience, more than another, served to deepen my conviction of the infernal character of slavery, and to fill me with unutterable loathing of slaveholders, it was their base ingratitude to my poor old grandmother.
She had served my old master faithfully from youth to old age.
She had been the source of all his wealth; she had peopled his plantation with slaves; she had become a great grandmother in his service.
She had rocked him in infancy, attended him in childhood, served him through life, and at his death wiped from his icy brow the cold death-sweat, and closed his eyes forever.
If my poor old grandmother now lives, she lives to suffer in utter loneliness; she lives to remember and mourn over the loss of children, the loss of grandchildren, and the loss of great-grandchildren.
The children, the unconscious children, who once sang and danced in her presence, are gone.
She gropes her way, in the darkness of age, for a drink of water.
Instead of the voices of her children, she hears by day the moans of the dove, and by night the screams of the hideous owl.
The grave is at the door.
She stands-she sits-she staggers-she falls-she groans-she dies-and there are none of her children or grandchildren present, to wipe from her wrinkled brow the cold sweat of death, or to place beneath the sod her fallen remains.
Will not a righteous God visit for these things? In about two years after the death of Mrs. Lucretia, Master Thomas married his second wife.
Her name was Rowena Hamilton.
She was the eldest daughter of Mr. William Hamilton.
Master now lived in St. Michael's.
It, however, was not so severe as the one I dreaded at the division of property; for, during this interval, a great change had taken place in Master Hugh and his once kind and affectionate wife.
The influence of brandy upon him, and of slavery upon her, had effected a disastrous change in the characters of both; so that, as far as they were concerned, I thought I had little to lose by the change.
But it was not to them that I was attached.
It was to those little Baltimore boys that I felt the strongest attachment.
I had received many good lessons from them, and was still receiving them, and the thought of leaving them was painful indeed.
I was leaving, too, without the hope of ever being allowed to return. Master Thomas had said he would never let me return again.
On my passage, I paid particular attention to the direction which the steamboats took to go to Philadelphia.
I found, instead of going down, on reaching North Point they went up the bay, in a north-easterly direction.
I deemed this knowledge of the utmost importance.
My determination to run away was again revived.
I resolved to wait only so long as the offering of a favorable opportunity.
When that came, I was determined to be off. CHAPTER IX I have now reached a period of my life when I can give dates.
I left Baltimore, and went to live with Master Thomas Auld, at St. Michael's, in March, 1832.
It was now more than seven years since I lived with him in the family of my old master, on Colonel Lloyd's plantation.
We of course were now almost entire strangers to each other.
He was to me a new master, and I to him a new slave.
I was ignorant of his temper and disposition; he was equally so of mine.
A very short time, however, brought us into full acquaintance with each other.
I was made acquainted with his wife not less than with himself.
They were well matched, being equally mean and cruel.
I was now, for the first time during a space of more than seven years, made to feel the painful gnawings of hunger-a something which I had not experienced before since I left Colonel Lloyd's plantation.
It went hard enough with me then, when I could look back to no period at which I had enjoyed a sufficiency.
It was tenfold harder after living in Master Hugh's family, where I had always had enough to eat, and of that which was good.
I have said Master Thomas was a mean man.
Not to give a slave enough to eat, is regarded as the most aggravated development of meanness even among slaveholders.
The rule is, no matter how coarse the food, only let there be enough of it.
This is the theory; and in the part of Maryland from which I came, it is the general practice,-though there are many exceptions.
Master Thomas gave us enough of neither coarse nor fine food.
It was not enough for us to subsist upon.
We were therefore reduced to the wretched necessity of living at the expense of our neighbors.
This we did by begging and stealing, whichever came handy in the time of need, the one being considered as legitimate as the other.
My master was one of this rare sort.
I do not know of one single noble act ever performed by him.
The leading trait in his character was meanness; and if there were any other element in his nature, it was made subject to this.
He was mean; and, like most other mean men, he lacked the ability to conceal his meanness.
Captain Auld was not born a slaveholder.
He had been a poor man, master only of a Bay craft.
He came into possession of all his slaves by marriage; and of all men, adopted slaveholders are the worst. He was cruel, but cowardly.
In the enforcement of his rules, he was at times rigid, and at times lax.
At times, he spoke to his slaves with the firmness of Napoleon and the fury of a demon; at other times, he might well be mistaken for an inquirer who had lost his way.
He did nothing of himself.
He might have passed for a lion, but for his ears.
In all things noble which he attempted, his own meanness shone most conspicuous.
His airs, words, and actions, were the airs, words, and actions of born slaveholders, and, being assumed, were awkward enough.
He was not even a good imitator.
He possessed all the disposition to deceive, but wanted the power.
The luxury of having slaves of his own to wait upon him was something new and unprepared for.
He was a slaveholder without the ability to hold slaves.
He found himself incapable of managing his slaves either by force, fear, or fraud.
We seldom called him "master;" we generally called him "Captain Auld," and were hardly disposed to title him at all.
I doubt not that our conduct had much to do with making him appear awkward, and of consequence fretful.
Our want of reverence for him must have perplexed him greatly. He wished to have us call him master, but lacked the firmness necessary to command us to do so.
His wife used to insist upon our calling him so, but to no purpose.
In August, 1832, my master attended a Methodist camp-meeting held in the Bay-side, Talbot county, and there experienced religion.
I indulged a faint hope that his conversion would lead him to emancipate his slaves, and that, if he did not do this, it would, at any rate, make him more kind and humane.
I was disappointed in both these respects.
It neither made him to be humane to his slaves, nor to emancipate them.
If it had any effect on his character, it made him more cruel and hateful in all his ways; for I believe him to have been a much worse man after his conversion than before.
Prior to his conversion, he relied upon his own depravity to shield and sustain him in his savage barbarity; but after his conversion, he found religious sanction and support for his slaveholding cruelty.
He made the greatest pretensions to piety.
His house was the house of prayer.
He prayed morning, noon, and night.
He very soon distinguished himself among his brethren, and was soon made a class-leader and exhorter.
His activity in revivals was great, and he proved himself an instrument in the hands of the church in converting many souls.
His house was the preachers' home.
They used to take great pleasure in coming there to put up; for while he starved us, he stuffed them.
We have had three or four preachers there at a time.
The names of those who used to come most frequently while I lived there, were Mr. Storks, Mr. Ewery, Mr. Humphry, and Mr. Hickey.
I have also seen Mr. George Cookman at our house.
We slaves loved Mr. Cookman.
When he was at our house, we were sure to be called in to prayers.
When the others were there, we were sometimes called in and sometimes not.
Mr. Cookman took more notice of us than either of the other ministers.
We met but three times, when Mr. West and Mr. Fairbanks, both class-leaders, with many others, came upon us with sticks and other missiles, drove us off, and forbade us to meet again.
Thus ended our little Sabbath school in the pious town of St. Michael's. I have said my master found religious sanction for his cruelty.
As an example, I will state one of many facts going to prove the charge.
The secret of master's cruelty toward "Henny" is found in the fact of her being almost helpless.
When quite a child, she fell into the fire, and burned herself horribly.
Her hands were so burnt that she never got the use of them.
She could do very little but bear heavy burdens.
She was to master a bill of expense; and as he was a mean man, she was a constant offence to him.
He seemed desirous of getting the poor girl out of existence.
He gave her away once to his sister; but, being a poor gift, she was not disposed to keep her.
Finally, my benevolent master, to use his own words, "set her adrift to take care of herself.
Here was a recently-converted man, holding on upon the mother, and at the same time turning out her helpless child, to starve and die!
Master Thomas was one of the many pious slaveholders who hold slaves for the very charitable purpose of taking care of them. My master and myself had quite a number of differences.
He found me unsuitable to his purpose.
My city life, he said, had had a very pernicious effect upon me.
It had almost ruined me for every good purpose, and fitted me for every thing which was bad.
One of my greatest faults was that of letting his horse run away, and go down to his father-in-law's farm, which was about five miles from St. Michael's.
I would then have to go after it.
My reason for this kind of carelessness, or carefulness, was, that I could always get something to eat when I went there.
Master William Hamilton, my master's father-in-law, always gave his slaves enough to eat.
I never left there hungry, no matter how great the need of my speedy return.
Master Thomas at length said he would stand it no longer.
I had lived with him nine months, during which time he had given me a number of severe whippings, all to no good purpose.
He resolved to put me out, as he said, to be broken; and, for this purpose, he let me for one year to a man named Edward Covey.
Mr. Covey was a poor man, a farm-renter.
He rented the place upon which he lived, as also the hands with which he tilled it. Mr. Covey had acquired a very high reputation for breaking young slaves, and this reputation was of immense value to him.
It enabled him to get his farm tilled with much less expense to himself than he could have had it done without such a reputation.
Some slaveholders thought it not much loss to allow Mr. Covey to have their slaves one year, for the sake of the training to which they were subjected, without any other compensation.
He could hire young help with great ease, in consequence of this reputation.
Added to the natural good qualities of Mr. Covey, he was a professor of religion-a pious soul-a member and a class-leader in the Methodist church.
All of this added weight to his reputation as a "nigger-breaker.
I was aware of all the facts, having been made acquainted with them by a young man who had lived there.
I was now, for the first time in my life, a field hand.
In my new employment, I found myself even more awkward than a country boy appeared to be in a large city.
I had been at my new home but one week before Mr. Covey gave me a very severe whipping, cutting my back, causing the blood to run, and raising ridges on my flesh as large as my little finger.
The details of this affair are as follows: Mr. Covey sent me, very early in the morning of one of our coldest days in the month of January, to the woods, to get a load of wood.
He gave me a team of unbroken oxen.
He told me which was the in-hand ox, and which the off-hand one.
I had never driven oxen before, and of course I was very awkward.
I expected every moment that my brains would be dashed out against the trees.
After running thus for a considerable distance, they finally upset the cart, dashing it with great force against a tree, and threw themselves into a dense thicket. How I escaped death, I do not know.
There I was, entirely alone, in a thick wood, in a place new to me.
My cart was upset and shattered, my oxen were entangled among the young trees, and there was none to help me.
After a long spell of effort, I succeeded in getting my cart righted, my oxen disentangled, and again yoked to the cart.
I now proceeded with my team to the place where I had, the day before, been chopping wood, and loaded my cart pretty heavily, thinking in this way to tame my oxen.
I then proceeded on my way home.
I had now consumed one half of the day.
I got out of the woods safely, and now felt out of danger.
Thus twice, in one short day, I escaped death by the merest chance.
On my return, I told Mr. Covey what had happened, and how it happened.
He ordered me to return to the woods again immediately.
I did so, and he followed on after me.
Just as I got into the woods, he came up and told me to stop my cart, and that he would teach me how to trifle away my time, and break gates.
He then went to a large gum-tree, and with his axe cut three large switches, and, after trimming them up neatly with his pocketknife, he ordered me to take off my clothes.
I made him no answer, but stood with my clothes on.
I still made him no answer, nor did I move to strip myself.
This whipping was the first of a number just like it, and for similar offences. I lived with Mr. Covey one year.
During the first six months, of that year, scarce a week passed without his whipping me.
I was seldom free from a sore back.
My awkwardness was almost always his excuse for whipping me.
We were worked fully up to the point of endurance.
Long before day we were up, our horses fed, and by the first approach of day we were off to the field with our hoes and ploughing teams.
Mr. Covey gave us enough to eat, but scarce time to eat it.
We were often less than five minutes taking our meals.
We were often in the field from the first approach of day till its last lingering ray had left us; and at saving-fodder time, midnight often caught us in the field binding blades. Covey would be out with us.
The way he used to stand it, was this.
He would spend the most of his afternoons in bed.
He would then come out fresh in the evening, ready to urge us on with his words, example, and frequently with the whip.
Mr. Covey was one of the few slaveholders who could and did work with his hands.
He was a hard-working man.
He knew by himself just what a man or a boy could do.
There was no deceiving him.
His work went on in his absence almost as well as in his presence; and he had the faculty of making us feel that he was ever present with us.
This he did by surprising us.
He seldom approached the spot where we were at work openly, if he could do it secretly.
He always aimed at taking us by surprise.
Such was his cunning, that we used to call him, among ourselves, "the snake.
When we were at work in the cornfield, he would sometimes crawl on his hands and knees to avoid detection, and all at once he would rise nearly in our midst, and scream out, "Ha, ha! Come, come!
This being his mode of attack, it was never safe to stop a single minute.
His comings were like a thief in the night.
He appeared to us as being ever at hand.
He was under every tree, behind every stump, in every bush, and at every window, on the plantation.
He would, for this purpose, leave his horse tied up in the woods.
His life was devoted to planning and perpetrating the grossest deceptions.
Every thing he possessed in the shape of learning or religion, he made conform to his disposition to deceive.
He seemed to think himself equal to deceiving the Almighty.
He would make a short prayer in the morning, and a long prayer at night; and, strange as it may seem, few men would at times appear more devotional than he.
The exercises of his family devotions were always commenced with singing; and, as he was a very poor singer himself, the duty of raising the hymn generally came upon me.
He would read his hymn, and nod at me to commence.
I would at times do so; at others, I would not.
My non-compliance would almost always produce much confusion.
To show himself independent of me, he would start and stagger through with his hymn in the most discordant manner. In this state of mind, he prayed with more than ordinary spirit.
This woman was named Caroline.
Mr. Covey bought her from Mr. Thomas Lowe, about six miles from St. Michael's. She was a large, able-bodied woman, about twenty years old.
She had already given birth to one child, which proved her to be just what he wanted.
After buying her, he hired a married man of Mr. Samuel Harrison, to live with him one year; and him he used to fasten up with her every night!
The result was, that, at the end of the year, the miserable woman gave birth to twins.
At this result Mr. Covey seemed to be highly pleased, both with the man and the wretched woman.
Such was his joy, and that of his wife, that nothing they could do for Caroline during her confinement was too good, or too hard, to be done.
We were worked in all weathers.
It was never too hot or too cold; it could never rain, blow, hail, or snow, too hard for us to work in the field.
Work, work, work, was scarcely more the order of the day than of the night.
The longest days were too short for him, and the shortest nights too long for him.
I was somewhat unmanageable when I first went there, but a few months of this discipline tamed me.
Mr. Covey succeeded in breaking me.
I was broken in body, soul, and spirit.
I spent this in a sort of beast-like stupor, between sleep and wake, under some large tree.
At times I would rise up, a flash of energetic freedom would dart through my soul, accompanied with a faint beam of hope, that flickered for a moment, and then vanished.
I sank down again, mourning over my wretched condition. I was sometimes prompted to take my life, and that of Covey, but was prevented by a combination of hope and fear.
Those beautiful vessels, robed in purest white, so delightful to the eye of freemen, were to me so many shrouded ghosts, to terrify and torment me with thoughts of my wretched condition.
The sight of these always affected me powerfully.
You move merrily before the gentle gale, and I sadly before the bloody whip!
You are freedom's swift-winged angels, that fly round the world; I am confined in bands of iron!
O that I were free!
O, that I were on one of your gallant decks, and under your protecting wing!
Alas! betwixt me and you, the turbid waters roll.
O that I could also go!
O, why was I born a man, of whom to make a brute!
The glad ship is gone; she hides in the dim distance.
I am left in the hottest hell of unending slavery.
Why am I a slave?
I will not stand it. Get caught, or get clear, I'll try it.
I had as well die with ague as the fever.
I have only one life to lose.
I had as well be killed running as die standing.
Only think of it; one hundred miles straight north, and I am free!
God helping me, I will.
It cannot be that I shall live and die a slave.
I will take to the water.
This very bay shall yet bear me into freedom.
The steamboats steered in a north-east course from North Point.
I will do the same; and when I get to the head of the bay, I will turn my canoe adrift, and walk straight through Delaware into Pennsylvania.
When I get there, I shall not be required to have a pass; I can travel without being disturbed.
Let but the first opportunity offer, and, come what will, I am off.
Meanwhile, I will try to bear up under the yoke.
I am not the only slave in the world.
I can bear as much as any of them.
Besides, I am but a boy, and all boys are bound to some one.
The circumstances leading to the change in Mr. Covey's course toward me form an epoch in my humble history.
You have seen how a man was made a slave; you shall see how a slave was made a man.
On one of the hottest days of the month of August, 1833, Bill Smith, William Hughes, a slave named Eli, and myself, were engaged in fanning wheat.
Hughes was clearing the fanned wheat from before the fan.
Eli was turning, Smith was feeding, and I was carrying wheat to the fan.
The work was simple, requiring strength rather than intellect; yet, to one entirely unused to such work, it came very hard.
I stood as long as I could stagger to the hopper with grain.
When I could stand no longer, I fell, and felt as if held down by an immense weight.
On hearing the fan stop, he left immediately, and came to the spot where we were.
He hastily inquired what the matter was.
Bill answered that I was sick, and there was no one to bring wheat to the fan.
I had by this time crawled away under the side of the post and rail-fence by which the yard was enclosed, hoping to find relief by getting out of the sun. He then asked where I was.
He was told by one of the hands.
He came to the spot, and, after looking at me awhile, asked me what was the matter.
I told him as well as I could, for I scarce had strength to speak.
He then gave me a savage kick in the side, and told me to get up.
I tried to do so, but fell back in the attempt.
He gave me another kick, and again told me to rise.
I again tried, and succeeded in gaining my feet; but, stooping to get the tub with which I was feeding the fan, I again staggered and fell.
I made no effort to comply, having now made up my mind to let him do his worst. In a short time after receiving this blow, my head grew better.
Mr. Covey had now left me to my fate.
At this moment I resolved, for the first time, to go to my master, enter a complaint, and ask his protection.
In order to do this, I must that afternoon walk seven miles; and this, under the circumstances, was truly a severe undertaking.
I was exceedingly feeble; made so as much by the kicks and blows which I received, as by the severe fit of sickness to which I had been subjected.
I, however, watched my chance, while Covey was looking in an opposite direction, and started for St. Michael's.
I succeeded in getting a considerable distance on my way to the woods, when Covey discovered me, and called after me to come back, threatening what he would do if I did not come.
I had not gone far before my little strength again failed me.
I could go no farther.
I fell down, and lay for a considerable time.
The blood was yet oozing from the wound on my head.
For a time I thought I should bleed to death; and think now that I should have done so, but that the blood so matted my hair as to stop the wound.
I then presented an appearance enough to affect any but a heart of iron.
From the crown of my head to my feet, I was covered with blood.
My hair was all clotted with dust and blood; my shirt was stiff with blood.
I suppose I looked like a man who had escaped a den of wild beasts, and barely escaped them.
In this state I appeared before my master, humbly entreating him to interpose his authority for my protection.
I told him all the circumstances as well as I could, and it seemed, as I spoke, at times to affect him.
He would then walk the floor, and seek to justify Covey by saying he expected I deserved it. He asked me what I wanted.
I remained all night, and, according to his orders, I started off to Covey's in the morning, (Saturday morning,) wearied in body and broken in spirit.
I got no supper that night, or breakfast that morning.
I reached Covey's about nine o'clock; and just as I was getting over the fence that divided Mrs. Kemp's fields from ours, out ran Covey with his cowskin, to give me another whipping.
Before he could reach me, I succeeded in getting to the cornfield; and as the corn was very high, it afforded me the means of hiding.
He seemed very angry, and searched for me a long time. My behavior was altogether unaccountable.
He finally gave up the chase, thinking, I suppose, that I must come home for something to eat; he would give himself no further trouble in looking for me.
I went home with him, and talked this whole matter over, and got his advice as to what course it was best for me to pursue.
I found Sandy an old adviser.
He said he had carried it for years; and since he had done so, he had never received a blow, and never expected to while he carried it.
To please him, I at length took the root, and, according to his direction, carried it upon my right side.
I immediately started for home; and upon entering the yard gate, out came Mr. Covey on his way to meeting.
He spoke to me very kindly, bade me drive the pigs from a lot near by, and passed on towards the church.
All went well till Monday morning.
On this morning, the virtue of the _root_ was fully tested.
Long before daylight, I was called to go and rub, curry, and feed, the horses.
I obeyed, and was glad to obey.
As soon as I found what he was up to, I gave a sudden spring, and as I did so, he holding to my legs, I was brought sprawling on the stable floor.
He held on to me, and I to him.
My resistance was so entirely unexpected that Covey seemed taken all aback.
He trembled like a leaf.
This gave me assurance, and I held him uneasy, causing the blood to run where I touched him with the ends of my fingers.
Mr. Covey soon called out to Hughes for help.
Hughes came, and, while Covey held me, attempted to tie my right hand.
While he was in the act of doing so, I watched my chance, and gave him a heavy kick close under the ribs.
This kick fairly sickened Hughes, so that he left me in the hands of Mr. Covey. This kick had the effect of not only weakening Hughes, but Covey also. When he saw Hughes bending over with pain, his courage quailed.
He asked me if I meant to persist in my resistance.
I told him I did, come what might; that he had used me like a brute for six months, and that I was determined to be used so no longer.
With that, he strove to drag me to a stick that was lying just out of the stable door.
He meant to knock me down.
But just as he was leaning over to get the stick, I seized him with both hands by his collar, and brought him by a sudden snatch to the ground.
By this time, Bill came.
Covey called upon him for assistance.
Bill wanted to know what he could do.
Covey said, "Take hold of him, take hold of him!
Bill said his master hired him out to work, and not to help to whip me; so he left Covey and myself to fight our own battle out.
We were at it for nearly two hours.
Covey at length let me go, puffing and blowing at a great rate, saying that if I had not resisted, he would not have whipped me half so much.
The truth was, that he had not whipped me at all.
I considered him as getting entirely the worst end of the bargain; for he had drawn no blood from me, but I had from him.
The whole six months afterwards, that I spent with Mr. Covey, he never laid the weight of his finger upon me in anger.
He would occasionally say, he didn't want to get hold of me again.
No," thought I, "you need not; for you will come off worse than you did before." This battle with Mr. Covey was the turning-point in my career as a slave.
It rekindled the few expiring embers of freedom, and revived within me a sense of my own manhood.
It recalled the departed self-confidence, and inspired me again with a determination to be free. The gratification afforded by the triumph was a full compensation for whatever else might follow, even death itself.
He only can understand the deep satisfaction which I experienced, who has himself repelled by force the bloody arm of slavery.
I felt as I never felt before.
It was a glorious resurrection, from the tomb of slavery, to the heaven of freedom.
My long-crushed spirit rose, cowardice departed, bold defiance took its place; and I now resolved that, however long I might remain a slave in form, the day had passed forever when I could be a slave in fact.
And the only explanation I can now think of does not entirely satisfy me; but such as it is, I will give it.
Mr. Covey enjoyed the most unbounded reputation for being a first-rate overseer and negro-breaker.
It was of considerable importance to him.
The days between Christmas and New Year's day are allowed as holidays; and, accordingly, we were not required to perform any labor, more than to feed and take care of the stock.
This time we regarded as our own, by the grace of our masters; and we therefore used or abused it nearly as we pleased.
Those of us who had families at a distance, were generally allowed to spend the whole six days in their society. This time, however, was spent in various ways.
The staid, sober, thinking and industrious ones of our number would employ themselves in making corn-brooms, mats, horse-collars, and baskets; and another class of us would spend the time in hunting opossums, hares, and coons.
A slave who would work during the holidays was considered by our masters as scarcely deserving them. He was regarded as one who rejected the favor of his master.
But for these, the slave would be forced up to the wildest desperation; and woe betide the slaveholder, the day he ventures to remove or hinder the operation of those conductors!
I warn him that, in such an event, a spirit will go forth in their midst, more to be dreaded than the most appalling earthquake. The holidays are part and parcel of the gross fraud, wrong, and inhumanity of slavery.
They are professedly a custom established by the benevolence of the slaveholders; but I undertake to say, it is the result of selfishness, and one of the grossest frauds committed upon the down-trodden slave.
They do not give the slaves this time because they would not like to have their work during its continuance, but because they know it would be unsafe to deprive them of it.
This will be seen by the fact, that the slaveholders like to have their slaves spend those days just in such a manner as to make them as glad of their ending as of their beginning.
Their object seems to be, to disgust their slaves with freedom, by plunging them into the lowest depths of dissipation.
For instance, the slaveholders not only like to see the slave drink of his own accord, but will adopt various plans to make him drunk.
One plan is, to make bets on their slaves, as to who can drink the most whisky without getting drunk; and in this way they succeed in getting whole multitudes to drink to excess.
Thus, when the slave asks for virtuous freedom, the cunning slaveholder, knowing his ignorance, cheats him with a dose of vicious dissipation, artfully labelled with the name of liberty.
The most of us used to drink it down, and the result was just what might be supposed; many of us were led to think that there was little to choose between liberty and slavery.
We felt, and very properly too, that we had almost as well be slaves to man as to rum.
The mode here adopted to disgust the slave with freedom, by allowing him to see only the abuse of it, is carried out in other things.
For instance, a slave loves molasses; he steals some.
His master, in many cases, goes off to town, and buys a large quantity; he returns, takes his whip, and commands the slave to eat the molasses, until the poor fellow is made sick at the very mention of it.
The same mode is sometimes adopted to make the slaves refrain from asking for more food than their regular allowance. A slave runs through his allowance, and applies for more.
His master is enraged at him; but, not willing to send him off without food, gives him more than is necessary, and compels him to eat it within a given time.
Then, if he complains that he cannot eat it, he is said to be satisfied neither full nor fasting, and is whipped for being hard to please!
I have an abundance of such illustrations of the same principle, drawn from my own observation, but think the cases I have cited sufficient.
The practice is a very common one. On the first of January, 1834, I left Mr. Covey, and went to live with Mr. William Freeland, who lived about three miles from St. Michael's.
I soon found Mr. Freeland a very different man from Mr. Covey.
Though not rich, he was what would be called an educated southern gentleman.
Mr. Covey, as I have shown, was a well-trained negro-breaker and slave-driver.
The former (slaveholder though he was) seemed to possess some regard for honor, some reverence for justice, and some respect for humanity.
The one was open and frank, and we always knew where to find him.
The other was a most artful deceiver, and could be understood only by such as were skilful enough to detect his cunningly-devised frauds.
Another advantage I gained in my new master was, he made no pretensions to, or profession of, religion; and this, in my opinion, was truly a great advantage.
Were I to be again reduced to the chains of slavery, next to that enslavement, I should regard being the slave of a religious master the greatest calamity that could befall me.
For of all slaveholders with whom I have ever met, religious slaveholders are the worst.
I have ever found them the meanest and basest, the most cruel and cowardly, of all others.
It was my unhappy lot not only to belong to a religious slaveholder, but to live in a community of such religionists.
Very near Mr. Freeland lived the Rev. Daniel Weeden, and in the same neighborhood lived the Rev. Rigby Hopkins.
These were members and ministers in the Reformed Methodist Church.
Mr. Weeden owned, among others, a woman slave, whose name I have forgotten.
This woman's back, for weeks, was kept literally raw, made so by the lash of this merciless, _religious_ wretch.
He used to hire hands.
His maxim was, Behave well or behave ill, it is the duty of a master occasionally to whip a slave, to remind him of his master's authority.
Such was his theory, and such his practice. Mr. Hopkins was even worse than Mr. Weeden.
His chief boast was his ability to manage slaves.
The peculiar feature of his government was that of whipping slaves in advance of deserving it.
He always managed to have one or more of his slaves to whip every Monday morning.
He did this to alarm their fears, and strike terror into those who escaped. His plan was to whip for the smallest offences, to prevent the commission of large ones.
Mr. Hopkins could always find some excuse for whipping a slave.
It would astonish one, unaccustomed to a slaveholding life, to see with what wonderful ease a slaveholder can find things, of which to make occasion to whip a slave.
A mere look, word, or motion,-a mistake, accident, or want of power,-are all matters for which a slave may be whipped at any time.
Does a slave look dissatisfied?
It is said, he has the devil in him, and it must be whipped out.
Does he speak loudly when spoken to by his master?
Then he is getting high-minded, and should be taken down a button-hole lower.
Does he forget to pull off his hat at the approach of a white person?
Then he is wanting in reverence, and should be whipped for it.
Does he ever venture to vindicate his conduct, when censured for it?
Then he is guilty of impudence,-one of the greatest crimes of which a slave can be guilty. Does he ever venture to suggest a different mode of doing things from that pointed out by his master?
He is indeed presumptuous, and getting above himself; and nothing less than a flogging will do for him.
Does he, while ploughing, break a plough,-or, while hoeing, break a hoe?
It is owing to his carelessness, and for it a slave must always be whipped.
Mr. Hopkins could always find something of this sort to justify the use of the lash, and he seldom failed to embrace such opportunities.
There was not a man in the whole county, with whom the slaves who had the getting their own home, would not prefer to live, rather than with this Rev. Mr. Hopkins.
He, like Mr. Covey, gave us enough to eat; but, unlike Mr. Covey, he also gave us sufficient time to take our meals.
He worked us hard, but always between sunrise and sunset.
He required a good deal of work to be done, but gave us good tools with which to work.
His farm was large, but he employed hands enough to work it, and with ease, compared with many of his neighbors.
My treatment, while in his employment, was heavenly, compared with what I experienced at the hands of Mr. Edward Covey. Mr. Freeland was himself the owner of but two slaves.
Their names were Henry Harris and John Harris.
The rest of his hands he hired.
These consisted of myself, Sandy Jenkins,[1] and Handy Caldwell. [1] This is the same man who gave me the roots to prevent my being whipped by Mr. Covey.
He was "a clever soul.
We used frequently to talk about the fight with Covey, and as often as we did so, he would claim my success as the result of the roots which he gave me.
This superstition is very common among the more ignorant slaves.
This desire soon sprang up in the others also.
They very soon mustered up some old spelling-books, and nothing would do but that I must keep a Sabbath school.
I agreed to do so, and accordingly devoted my Sundays to teaching these my loved fellow-slaves how to read.
Neither of them knew his letters when I went there.
Some of the slaves of the neighboring farms found what was going on, and also availed themselves of this little opportunity to learn to read.
It was understood, among all who came, that there must be as little display about it as possible.
My blood boils as I think of the bloody manner in which Messrs.
I had at one time over forty scholars, and those of the right sort, ardently desiring to learn.
They were of all ages, though mostly men and women.
I look back to those Sundays with an amount of pleasure not to be expressed.
They were great days to my soul.
The work of instructing my dear fellow-slaves was the sweetest engagement with which I was ever blessed.
We loved each other, and to leave them at the close of the Sabbath was a severe cross indeed.
These dear souls came not to Sabbath school because it was popular to do so, nor did I teach them because it was reputable to be thus engaged.
Every moment they spent in that school, they were liable to be taken up, and given thirty-nine lashes.
They came because they wished to learn.
Their minds had been starved by their cruel masters.
They had been shut up in mental darkness.
I taught them, because it was the delight of my soul to be doing something that looked like bettering the condition of my race.
I kept up my school nearly the whole year I lived with Mr. Freeland; and, beside my Sabbath school, I devoted three evenings in the week, during the winter, to teaching the slaves at home.
And I have the happiness to know, that several of those who came to Sabbath school learned how to read; and that one, at least, is now free through my agency. The year passed off smoothly.
It seemed only about half as long as the year which preceded it.
I went through it without receiving a single blow.
They were noble souls; they not only possessed loving hearts, but brave ones.
We were linked and interlinked with each other. I loved them with a love stronger than any thing I have experienced since.
It is sometimes said that we slaves do not love and confide in each other.
In answer to this assertion, I can say, I never loved any or confided in any people more than my fellow-slaves, and especially those with whom I lived at Mr. Freeland's.
I believe we would have died for each other.
We never undertook to do any thing, of any importance, without a mutual consultation.
But, by this time, I began to want to live _upon free land_ as well as _with Freeland;_ and I was no longer content, therefore, to live with him or any other slaveholder.
I began, with the commencement of the year, to prepare myself for a final struggle, which should decide my fate one way or the other.
I was fast approaching manhood, and year after year had passed, and I was still a slave.
These thoughts roused me-I must do something.
I therefore resolved that 1835 should not pass without witnessing an attempt, on my part, to secure my liberty.
But I was not willing to cherish this determination alone.
My fellow-slaves were dear to me.
I was anxious to have them participate with me in this, my life-giving determination.
I therefore, though with great prudence, commenced early to ascertain their views and feelings in regard to their condition, and to imbue their minds with thoughts of freedom.
I bent myself to devising ways and means for our escape, and meanwhile strove, on all fitting occasions, to impress them with the gross fraud and inhumanity of slavery.
I went first to Henry, next to John, then to the others.
I found, in them all, warm hearts and noble spirits.
They were ready to hear, and ready to act when a feasible plan should be proposed.
This was what I wanted.
I talked to them of our want of manhood, if we submitted to our enslavement without at least one noble effort to be free.
We met often, and consulted frequently, and told our hopes and fears, recounted the difficulties, real and imagined, which we should be called on to meet.
At times we were almost disposed to give up, and try to content ourselves with our wretched lot; at others, we were firm and unbending in our determination to go.
Whenever we suggested any plan, there was shrinking-the odds were fearful.
Our path was beset with the greatest obstacles; and if we succeeded in gaining the end of it, our right to be free was yet questionable-we were yet liable to be returned to bondage.
We could see no spot, this side of the ocean, where we could be free.
We knew nothing about Canada.
The case sometimes stood thus: At every gate through which we were to pass, we saw a watchman-at every ferry a guard-on every bridge a sentinel-and in every wood a patrol.
We were hemmed in upon every side.
Here were the difficulties, real or imagined-the good to be sought, and the evil to be shunned.
On the one hand, there stood slavery, a stern reality, glaring frightfully upon us,-its robes already crimsoned with the blood of millions, and even now feasting itself greedily upon our own flesh.
On the other hand, away back in the dim distance, under the flickering light of the north star, behind some craggy hill or snow-covered mountain, stood a doubtful freedom-half frozen-beckoning us to come and share its hospitality.
This in itself was sometimes enough to stagger us; but when we permitted ourselves to survey the road, we were frequently appalled.
Upon either side we saw grim death, assuming the most horrid shapes.
With us it was a doubtful liberty at most, and almost certain death if we failed.
For my part, I should prefer death to hopeless bondage. Sandy, one of our number, gave up the notion, but still encouraged us. Our company then consisted of Henry Harris, John Harris, Henry Bailey, Charles Roberts, and myself.
Henry Bailey was my uncle, and belonged to my master.
Any one having a white face, and being so disposed, could stop us, and subject us to examination. The week before our intended start, I wrote several protections, one for each of us.
As well as I can remember, they were in the following words, to wit:- "This is to certify that I, the undersigned, have given the bearer, my servant, full liberty to go to Baltimore, and spend the Easter holidays.
It was truly a matter of life and death with us.
The strength of our determination was about to be fully tested.
This, none of us were prepared to acknowledge.
Every man stood firm; and at our last meeting, we pledged ourselves afresh, in the most solemn manner, that, at the time appointed, we would certainly start in pursuit of freedom.
This was in the middle of the week, at the end of which we were to be off. We went, as usual, to our several fields of labor, but with bosoms highly agitated with thoughts of our truly hazardous undertaking.
We tried to conceal our feelings as much as possible; and I think we succeeded very well. After a painful waiting, the Saturday morning, whose night was to witness our departure, came.
I hailed it with joy, bring what of sadness it might.
Friday night was a sleepless one for me.
I probably felt more anxious than the rest, because I was, by common consent, at the head of the whole affair.
The responsibility of success or failure lay heavily upon me.
The glory of the one, and the confusion of the other, were alike mine.
The first two hours of that morning were such as I never experienced before, and hope never to again.
Early in the morning, we went, as usual, to the field.
We were spreading manure; and all at once, while thus engaged, I was overwhelmed with an indescribable feeling, in the fulness of which I turned to Sandy, who was near by, and said, "We are betrayed!
Well," said he, "that thought has this moment struck me.
I was never more certain of any thing. The horn was blown as usual, and we went up from the field to the house for breakfast.
I went for the form, more than for want of any thing to eat that morning.
Just as I got to the house, in looking out at the lane gate, I saw four white men, with two colored men.
The white men were on horseback, and the colored ones were walking behind, as if tied.
I watched them a few moments till they got up to our lane gate. Here they halted, and tied the colored men to the gate-post.
I was not yet certain as to what the matter was.
In a few moments, in rode Mr. Hamilton, with a speed betokening great excitement.
He came to the door, and inquired if Master William was in. He was told he was at the barn.
Mr. Hamilton, without dismounting, rode up to the barn with extraordinary speed.
In a few moments, he and Mr. Freeland returned to the house.
By this time, the three constables rode up, and in great haste dismounted, tied their horses, and met Master William and Mr. Hamilton returning from the barn; and after talking awhile, they all walked up to the kitchen door.
There was no one in the kitchen but myself and John.
Henry and Sandy were up at the barn.
Mr. Freeland put his head in at the door, and called me by name, saying, there were some gentlemen at the door who wished to see me.
I stepped to the door, and inquired what they wanted.
They at once seized me, and, without giving me any satisfaction, tied me-lashing my hands closely together.
I insisted upon knowing what the matter was.
They then turned to Henry, who had by this time returned, and commanded him to cross his hands.
I won't!" said Henry, in a firm tone, indicating his readiness to meet the consequences of his refusal.
Won't you?" said Tom Graham, the constable.
No, I won't!" said Henry, in a still stronger tone. With this, two of the constables pulled out their shining pistols, and swore, by their Creator, that they would make him cross his hands or kill him.
Each cocked his pistol, and, with fingers on the trigger, walked up to Henry, saying, at the same time, if he did not cross his hands, they would blow his damned heart out.
Shoot me, shoot me!" said Henry; "you can't kill me but once.
We were all now tied; and just as we were to leave for Easton jail, Betsy Freeland, mother of William Freeland, came to the door with her hands full of biscuits, and divided them between Henry and John.
She then delivered herself of a speech, to the following effect:-addressing herself to me, she said, "_You devil!
You yellow devil!_ it was you that put it into the heads of Henry and John to run away.
But for you, you long-legged mulatto devil!
Henry nor John would never have thought of such a thing.
I made no reply, and was immediately hurried off towards St. Michael's.
Just a moment previous to the scuffle with Henry, Mr. Hamilton suggested the propriety of making a search for the protections which he had understood Frederick had written for himself and the rest.
I told him to eat it with his biscuit, and own nothing; and we passed the word around, "_Own nothing;_" and "_Own nothing!_" said we all.
Our confidence in each other was unshaken.
We were resolved to succeed or fail together, after the calamity had befallen us as much as before.
We were now prepared for any thing.
We were to be dragged that morning fifteen miles behind horses, and then to be placed in the Easton jail.
When we reached St. Michael's, we underwent a sort of examination.
We all denied that we ever intended to run away.
We did this more to bring out the evidence against us, than from any hope of getting clear of being sold; for, as I have said, we were ready for that.
The fact was, we cared but little where we went, so we went together.
Our greatest concern was about separation.
We dreaded that more than any thing this side of death.
We found the evidence against us to be the testimony of one person; our master would not tell who it was; but we came to a unanimous decision among ourselves as to who their informant was.
We were sent off to the jail at Easton.
When we got there, we were delivered up to the sheriff, Mr. Joseph Graham, and by him placed in jail.
Such a set of beings I never saw before!
I felt myself surrounded by so many fiends from perdition.
A band of pirates never looked more like their father, the devil.
They laughed and grinned over us, saying, "Ah, my boys! we have got you, haven't we?
And after taunting us in various ways, they one by one went into an examination of us, with intent to ascertain our value. They would impudently ask us if we would not like to have them for our masters.
We would make them no answer, and leave them to find out as best they could.
Upon the whole, we got along very well, so far as the jail and its keeper were concerned.
Immediately after the holidays were over, contrary to all our expectations, Mr. Hamilton and Mr. Freeland came up to Easton, and took Charles, the two Henrys, and John, out of jail, and carried them home, leaving me alone.
I regarded this separation as a final one.
It caused me more pain than any thing else in the whole transaction.
I was ready for any thing rather than separation.
It is due to the noble Henry to say, he seemed almost as reluctant at leaving the prison as at leaving home to come to the prison.
But we knew we should, in all probability, be separated, if we were sold; and since he was in their hands, he concluded to go peaceably home. I was now left to my fate.
I was all alone, and within the walls of a stone prison.
But a few days before, and I was full of hope.
I expected to have been safe in a land of freedom; but now I was covered with gloom, sunk down to the utmost despair.
I thought the possibility of freedom was gone.
I was put there to learn how to calk.
It, however, proved a very unfavorable place for the accomplishment of this object.
Mr. Gardner was engaged that spring in building two large man-of-war brigs, professedly for the Mexican government.
The vessels were to be launched in the July of that year, and in failure thereof, Mr. Gardner was to lose a considerable sum; so that when I entered, all was hurry.
There was no time to learn any thing.
Every man had to do that which he knew how to do.
In entering the shipyard, my orders from Mr. Gardner were, to do whatever the carpenters commanded me to do.
This was placing me at the beck and call of about seventy-five men.
I was to regard all these as masters. Their word was to be my law.
My situation was a most trying one.
At times I needed a dozen pair of hands.
I was called a dozen ways in the space of a single minute.
Three or four voices would strike my ear at the same moment.
The facts in the case were these: Until a very little while after I went there, white and black ship-carpenters worked side by side, and no one seemed to see any impropriety in it.
All hands seemed to be very well satisfied.
Many of the black carpenters were freemen.
Things seemed to be going on very well.
All at once, the white carpenters knocked off, and said they would not work with free colored workmen.
Their reason for this, as alleged, was, that if free colored carpenters were encouraged, they would soon take the trade into their own hands, and poor white men would be thrown out of employment.
They therefore felt called upon at once to put a stop to it.
And, taking advantage of Mr. Gardner's necessities, they broke off, swearing they would work no longer, unless he would discharge his black carpenters.
Now, though this did not extend to me in form, it did reach me in fact.
My fellow-apprentices very soon began to feel it degrading to them to work with me.
They, however, at length combined, and came upon me, armed with sticks, stones, and heavy handspikes.
One came in front with a half brick.
There was one at each side of me, and one behind me.
While I was attending to those in front, and on either side, the one behind ran up with the handspike, and struck me a heavy blow upon the head.
I fell, and with this they all ran upon me, and fell to beating me with their fists.
I let them lay on for a while, gathering strength.
In an instant, I gave a sudden surge, and rose to my hands and knees.
Just as I did that, one of their number gave me, with his heavy boot, a powerful kick in the left eye.
My eyeball seemed to have burst.
When they saw my eye closed, and badly swollen, they left me. With this I seized the handspike, and for a time pursued them.
But here the carpenters interfered, and I thought I might as well give it up.
It was impossible to stand my hand against so many.
All this took place in sight of not less than fifty white ship-carpenters, and not one interposed a friendly word; but some cried, "Kill the damned nigger! Kill him! kill him!
He struck a white person.
I found my only chance for life was in flight.
He listened attentively to my narration of the circumstances leading to the savage outrage, and gave many proofs of his strong indignation at it.
The heart of my once overkind mistress was again melted into pity.
My puffed-out eye and blood-covered face moved her to tears.
She took a chair by me, washed the blood from my face, and, with a mother's tenderness, bound up my head, covering the wounded eye with a lean piece of fresh beef.
It was almost compensation for my suffering to witness, once more, a manifestation of kindness from this, my once affectionate old mistress.
Master Hugh was very much enraged.
He gave expression to his feelings by pouring out curses upon the heads of those who did the deed.
As soon as I got a little the better of my bruises, he took me with him to Esquire Watson's, on Bond Street, to see what could be done about the matter.
Mr. Watson inquired who saw the assault committed.
Master Hugh told him it was done in Mr. Gardner's ship-yard at midday, where there were a large company of men at work.
As to that," he said, "the deed was done, and there was no question as to who did it.
His answer was, he could do nothing in the case, unless some white man would come forward and testify.
He could issue no warrant on my word.
If I had been killed in the presence of a thousand colored people, their testimony combined would have been insufficient to have arrested one of the murderers.
Master Hugh, for once, was compelled to say this state of things was too bad.
Of course, it was impossible to get any white man to volunteer his testimony in my behalf, and against the white young men.
Even those who may have sympathized with me were not prepared to do this.
It required a degree of courage unknown to them to do so; for just at that time, the slightest manifestation of humanity toward a colored person was denounced as abolitionism, and that name subjected its bearer to frightful liabilities.
The watchwords of the bloody-minded in that region, and in those days, were, "Damn the abolitionists!" and "Damn the niggers!
There was nothing done, and probably nothing would have been done if I had been killed.
Such was, and such remains, the state of things in the Christian city of Baltimore. Master Hugh, finding he could get no redress, refused to let me go back again to Mr. Gardner.
He kept me himself, and his wife dressed my wound till I was again restored to health.
He then took me into the ship-yard of which he was foreman, in the employment of Mr. Walter Price.
There I was immediately set to calking, and very soon learned the art of using my mallet and irons.
In the course of one year from the time I left Mr. Gardner's, I was able to command the highest wages given to the most experienced calkers.
I was now of some importance to my master.
I was bringing him from six to seven dollars per week.
I sometimes brought him nine dollars per week: my wages were a dollar and a half a day. After learning how to calk, I sought my own employment, made my own contracts, and collected the money which I earned.
My pathway became much more smooth than before; my condition was now much more comfortable.
When I could get no calking to do, I did nothing.
During these leisure times, those old notions about freedom would steal over me again.
When in Mr. Gardner's employment, I was kept in such a perpetual whirl of excitement, I could think of nothing, scarcely, but my life; and in thinking of my life, I almost forgot my liberty.
I have observed this in my experience of slavery,-that whenever my condition was improved, instead of its increasing my contentment, it only increased my desire to be free, and set me to thinking of plans to gain my freedom.
I have found that, to make a contented slave, it is necessary to make a thoughtless one.
It is necessary to darken his moral and mental vision, and, as far as possible, to annihilate the power of reason.
The right of the grim-visaged pirate upon the high seas is exactly the same. CHAPTER XI I now come to that part of my life during which I planned, and finally succeeded in making, my escape from slavery.
But before narrating any of the peculiar circumstances, I deem it proper to make known my intention not to state all the facts connected with the transaction.
I deeply regret the necessity that impels me to suppress any thing of importance connected with my experience in slavery.
But I must deprive myself of this pleasure, and the curious of the gratification which such a statement would afford.
They do nothing towards enlightening the slave, whilst they do much towards enlightening the master.
They stimulate him to greater watchfulness, and enhance his power to capture his slave.
I would keep the merciless slaveholder profoundly ignorant of the means of flight adopted by the slave.
I would leave him to imagine himself surrounded by myriads of invisible tormentors, ever ready to snatch from his infernal grasp his trembling prey.
Let us render the tyrant no aid; let us not hold the light by which he can trace the footprints of our flying brother.
I could see no reason why I should, at the end of each week, pour the reward of my toil into the purse of my master.
When I carried to him my weekly wages, he would, after counting the money, look me in the face with a robber-like fierceness, and ask, "Is this all?
He was satisfied with nothing less than the last cent.
He would, however, when I made him six dollars, sometimes give me six cents, to encourage me.
It had the opposite effect.
I regarded it as a sort of admission of my right to the whole.
The fact that he gave me any part of my wages was proof, to my mind, that he believed me entitled to the whole of them.
I always felt worse for having received any thing; for I feared that the giving me a few cents would ease his conscience, and make him feel himself to be a pretty honorable sort of robber.
My discontent grew upon me.
I was ever on the look-out for means of escape; and, finding no direct means, I determined to try to hire my time, with a view of getting money with which to make my escape.
In the spring of 1838, when Master Thomas came to Baltimore to purchase his spring goods, I got an opportunity, and applied to him to allow me to hire my time.
He exhorted me to content myself, and be obedient.
He told me, if I would be happy, I must lay out no plans for the future.
He said, if I behaved myself properly, he would take care of me.
Indeed, he advised me to complete thoughtlessness of the future, and taught me to depend solely upon him for happiness.
He seemed to see fully the pressing necessity of setting aside my intellectual nature, in order to contentment in slavery.
He was not acquainted with the fact that I had applied to Master Thomas, and had been refused.
My board was two dollars and a half per week.
This, with the wear and tear of clothing and calking tools, made my regular expenses about six dollars per week.
This arrangement, it will be perceived, was decidedly in my master's favor.
It relieved him of all need of looking after me.
He received all the benefits of slaveholding without its evils; while I endured all the evils of a slave, and suffered all the care and anxiety of a freeman.
I found it a hard bargain.
But, hard as it was, I thought it better than the old mode of getting along.
It was a step towards freedom to be allowed to bear the responsibilities of a freeman, and I was determined to hold on upon it.
I bent myself to the work of making money.
I was ready to work at night as well as day, and by the most untiring perseverance and industry, I made enough to meet my expenses, and lay up a little money every week.
I went on thus from May till August. Master Hugh then refused to allow me to hire my time longer.
The ground for his refusal was a failure on my part, one Saturday night, to pay him for my week's time.
This failure was occasioned by my attending a camp meeting about ten miles from Baltimore.
I knew that Master Hugh was in no special need of the money that night.
I therefore decided to go to camp meeting, and upon my return pay him the three dollars.
I staid at the camp meeting one day longer than I intended when I left.
But as soon as I returned, I called upon him to pay him what he considered his due.
I found him very angry; he could scarce restrain his wrath.
He said he had a great mind to give me a severe whipping.
He wished to know how I dared go out of the city without asking his permission.
Upon the same plea, he told me to bring my tools and clothing home forthwith.
I did so; but instead of seeking work, as I had been accustomed to do previously to hiring my time, I spent the whole week without the performance of a single stroke of work.
I did this in retaliation.
Saturday night, he called upon me as usual for my week's wages.
I told him I had no wages; I had done no work that week.
Here we were upon the point of coming to blows.
He raved, and swore his determination to get hold of me.
I did not allow myself a single word; but was resolved, if he laid the weight of his hand upon me, it should be blow for blow.
He did not strike me, but told me that he would find me in constant employment in future.
I thought the matter over during the next day, Sunday, and finally resolved upon the third day of September, as the day upon which I would make a second attempt to secure my freedom.
I now had three weeks during which to prepare for my journey.
At the end of the week, I brought him between eight and nine dollars.
He seemed very well pleased, and asked why I did not do the same the week before.
I told him I would. Things went on without very smoothly indeed, but within there was trouble.
It is impossible for me to describe my feelings as the time of my contemplated start drew near.
I had a number of warmhearted friends in Baltimore,-friends that I loved almost as I did my life,-and the thought of being separated from them forever was painful beyond expression.
It is my opinion that thousands would escape from slavery, who now remain, but for the strong cords of affection that bind them to their friends.
The thought of leaving my friends was decidedly the most painful thought with which I had to contend.
The love of them was my tender point, and shook my decision more than all things else.
Besides the pain of separation, the dread and apprehension of a failure exceeded what I had experienced at my first attempt.
The appalling defeat I then sustained returned to torment me.
I felt assured that, if I failed in this attempt, my case would be a hopeless one-it would seal my fate as a slave forever.
I could not hope to get off with any thing less than the severest punishment, and being placed beyond the means of escape.
It required no very vivid imagination to depict the most frightful scenes through which I should have to pass, in case I failed. The wretchedness of slavery, and the blessedness of freedom, were perpetually before me.
It was life and death with me.
But I remained firm, and, according to my resolution, on the third day of September, 1838, I left my chains, and succeeded in reaching New York without the slightest interruption of any kind.
How I did so,-what means I adopted,-what direction I travelled, and by what mode of conveyance,-I must leave unexplained, for the reasons before mentioned. I have been frequently asked how I felt when I found myself in a free State.
I have never been able to answer the question with any satisfaction to myself.
It was a moment of the highest excitement I ever experienced.
I suppose I felt as one may imagine the unarmed mariner to feel when he is rescued by a friendly man-of-war from the pursuit of a pirate.
In writing to a dear friend, immediately after my arrival at New York, I said I felt like one who had escaped a den of hungry lions.
This state of mind, however, very soon subsided; and I was again seized with a feeling of great insecurity and loneliness.
I was yet liable to be taken back, and subjected to all the tortures of slavery.
This in itself was enough to damp the ardor of my enthusiasm. But the loneliness overcame me.
The motto which I adopted when I started from slavery was this-"Trust no man!
I saw in every white man an enemy, and in almost every colored man cause for distrust.
It was a most painful situation; and, to understand it, one must needs experience it, or imagine himself in similar circumstances.
I am glad of an opportunity to express, as far as words can, the love and gratitude I bear him.
Mr. Ruggles is now afflicted with blindness, and is himself in need of the same kind offices which he was once so forward in the performance of toward others.
I had been in New York but a few days, when Mr. Ruggles sought me out, and very kindly took me to his boarding-house at the corner of Church and Lespenard Streets.
In a few days after her arrival, Mr. Ruggles called in the Rev. J.
Richmond for Newport, on our way to New Bedford.
We were encouraged to do this by two excellent gentlemen, residents of New Bedford, whose names I afterward ascertained to be Joseph Ricketson and William C.
Taber. They seemed at once to understand our circumstances, and gave us such assurance of their friendliness as put us fully at ease in their presence. It was good indeed to meet with such friends, at such a time.
Upon reaching New Bedford, we were directed to the house of Mr. Nathan Johnson, by whom we were kindly received, and hospitably provided for. Both Mr. and Mrs. Johnson took a deep and lively interest in our welfare.
They proved themselves quite worthy of the name of abolitionists.
When the stage-driver found us unable to pay our fare, he held on upon our baggage as security for the debt.
I had but to mention the fact to Mr. Johnson, and he forthwith advanced the money. We now began to feel a degree of safety, and to prepare ourselves for the duties and responsibilities of a life of freedom.
On the morning after our arrival at New Bedford, while at the breakfast-table, the question arose as to what name I should be called by.
The name given me by my mother was, "Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey.
I, however, had dispensed with the two middle names long before I left Maryland so that I was generally known by the name of "Frederick Bailey.
I started from Baltimore bearing the name of "Stanley.
When I got to New York, I again changed my name to "Frederick Johnson," and thought that would be the last change.
But when I got to New Bedford, I found it necessary again to change my name.
The reason of this necessity was, that there were so many Johnsons in New Bedford, it was already quite difficult to distinguish between them.
I gave Mr. Johnson the privilege of choosing me a name, but told him he must not take from me the name of "Frederick.
I must hold on to that, to preserve a sense of my identity.
Mr. Johnson had just been reading the "Lady of the Lake," and at once suggested that my name be "Douglass.
The impression which I had received respecting the character and condition of the people of the north, I found to be singularly erroneous.
I had very strangely supposed, while in slavery, that few of the comforts, and scarcely any of the luxuries, of life were enjoyed at the north, compared with what were enjoyed by the slaveholders of the south.
I probably came to this conclusion from the fact that northern people owned no slaves.
I supposed that they were about upon a level with the non-slaveholding population of the south.
I knew _they_ were exceedingly poor, and I had been accustomed to regard their poverty as the necessary consequence of their being non-slaveholders.
I had somehow imbibed the opinion that, in the absence of slaves, there could be no wealth, and very little refinement.
And upon coming to the north, I expected to meet with a rough, hard-handed, and uncultivated population, living in the most Spartan-like simplicity, knowing nothing of the ease, luxury, pomp, and grandeur of southern slaveholders.
Here I found myself surrounded with the strongest proofs of wealth.
Lying at the wharves, and riding in the stream, I saw many ships of the finest model, in the best order, and of the largest size.
Upon the right and left, I was walled in by granite warehouses of the widest dimensions, stowed to their utmost capacity with the necessaries and comforts of life.
Added to this, almost every body seemed to be at work, but noiselessly so, compared with what I had been accustomed to in Baltimore.
There were no loud songs heard from those engaged in loading and unloading ships.
I heard no deep oaths or horrid curses on the laborer.
I saw no whipping of men; but all seemed to go smoothly on.
To me this looked exceedingly strange.
I saw few or no dilapidated houses, with poverty-stricken inmates; no half-naked children and barefooted women, such as I had been accustomed to see in Hillsborough, Easton, St. Michael's, and Baltimore.
The people looked more able, stronger, healthier, and happier, than those of Maryland.
I was for once made glad by a view of extreme wealth, without being saddened by seeing extreme poverty.
But the most astonishing as well as the most interesting thing to me was the condition of the colored people, a great many of whom, like myself, had escaped thither as a refuge from the hunters of men.
I found many, who had not been seven years out of their chains, living in finer houses, and evidently enjoying more of the comforts of life, than the average of slaveholders in Maryland.
Yet Mr. Johnson was a working man.
His hands were hardened by toil, and not his alone, but those also of Mrs. Johnson.
I found the colored people much more spirited than I had supposed they would be.
I found among them a determination to protect each other from the blood-thirsty kidnapper, at all hazards.
Soon after my arrival, I was told of a circumstance which illustrated their spirit.
A colored man and a fugitive slave were on unfriendly terms.
The former was heard to threaten the latter with informing his master of his whereabouts.
Straightway a meeting was called among the colored people, under the stereotyped notice, "Business of importance!
The betrayer was invited to attend.
It was new, dirty, and hard work for me; but I went at it with a glad heart and a willing hand.
I was now my own master.
It was a happy moment, the rapture of which can be understood only by those who have been slaves.
It was the first work, the reward of which was to be entirely my own.
There was no Master Hugh standing ready, the moment I earned the money, to rob me of it.
I worked that day with a pleasure I had never before experienced.
I was at work for myself and newly-married wife.
Mr. Johnson kindly let me have his wood-horse and saw, and I very soon found myself a plenty of work.
There was no work too hard-none too dirty.
I told him I did; but, just having made my escape from slavery, I remarked that I was unable to pay for it then.
I, however, finally became a subscriber to it.
The paper came, and I read it from week to week with such feelings as it would be quite idle for me to attempt to describe.
The paper became my meat and my drink.
My soul was set all on fire.
I took right hold of the cause.
I could do but little; but what I could, I did with a joyful heart, and never felt happier than when in an anti-slavery meeting.
I seldom had much to say at the meetings, because what I wanted to say was said so much better by others.
But, while attending an anti-slavery convention at Nantucket, on the 11th of August, 1841, I felt strongly moved to speak, and was at the same time much urged to do so by Mr. William C.
Coffin, a gentleman who had heard me speak in the colored people's meeting at New Bedford.
It was a severe cross, and I took it up reluctantly.
The truth was, I felt myself a slave, and the idea of speaking to white people weighed me down.
I spoke but a few moments, when I felt a degree of freedom, and said what I desired with considerable ease.
To remove the liability of such misapprehension, I deem it proper to append the following brief explanation.
To be the friend of the one, is of necessity to be the enemy of the other.
I love the pure, peaceable, and impartial Christianity of Christ: I therefore hate the corrupt, slaveholding, women-whipping, cradle-plundering, partial and hypocritical Christianity of this land.
Indeed, I can see no reason, but the most deceitful one, for calling the religion of this land Christianity.
I look upon it as the climax of all misnomers, the boldest of all frauds, and the grossest of all libels.
We have men-stealers for ministers, women-whippers for missionaries, and cradle-plunderers for church members.
The man who wields the blood-clotted cowskin during the week fills the pulpit on Sunday, and claims to be a minister of the meek and lowly Jesus.
The man who robs me of my earnings at the end of each week meets me as a class-leader on Sunday morning, to show me the way of life, and the path of salvation.
He who sells my sister, for purposes of prostitution, stands forth as the pious advocate of purity.
He who proclaims it a religious duty to read the Bible denies me the right of learning to read the name of the God who made me.
He who is the religious advocate of marriage robs whole millions of its sacred influence, and leaves them to the ravages of wholesale pollution.
The warm defender of the sacredness of the family relation is the same that scatters whole families,-sundering husbands and wives, parents and children, sisters and brothers,-leaving the hut vacant, and the hearth desolate.
We see the thief preaching against theft, and the adulterer against adultery.
We have men sold to build churches, women sold to support the gospel, and babes sold to purchase Bibles for the _Poor Heathen!
Revivals of religion and revivals in the slave-trade go hand in hand together.
The slave prison and the church stand near each other.
The clanking of fetters and the rattling of chains in the prison, and the pious psalm and solemn prayer in the church, may be heard at the same time.
The dealers in the bodies and souls of men erect their stand in the presence of the pulpit, and they mutually help each other.
The dealer gives his blood-stained gold to support the pulpit, and the pulpit, in return, covers his infernal business with the garb of Christianity.
Ye blind guides! which strain at a gnat, and swallow a camel.
They strain at a gnat, and swallow a camel.
Could any thing be more true of our churches?
They would be shocked at the proposition of fellowshipping a _sheep_-stealer; and at the same time they hug to their communion a _man_-stealer, and brand me with being an infidel, if I find fault with them for it.
They attend with Pharisaical strictness to the outward forms of religion, and at the same time neglect the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith.
They are always ready to sacrifice, but seldom to show mercy.
They are they who are represented as professing to love God whom they have not seen, whilst they hate their brother whom they have seen.
They love the heathen on the other side of the globe.
It is said to have been drawn, several years before the present anti-slavery agitation began, by a northern Methodist preacher, who, while residing at the south, had an opportunity to see slaveholding morals, manners, and piety, with his own eyes.
Shall I not visit for these things? saith the Lord.
O PIONEERS! by Willa Sibert Cather "Those fields, colored by various grain!" MICKIEWICZ Contents PART I.
The Wild Land I II III IV V PART II.
Neighboring Fields I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X XI XII PART III.
Winter Memories I II PART IV.
The White Mulberry Tree I II III IV V VI VII VIII PART V.
A mist of fine snowflakes was curling and eddying about the cluster of low drab buildings huddled on the gray prairie, under a gray sky.
The dwelling-houses were set about haphazard on the tough prairie sod; some of them looked as if they had been moved in overnight, and others as if they were straying off by themselves, headed straight for the open plain.
None of them had any appearance of permanence, and the howling wind blew under them as well as over them.
On either side of this road straggled two uneven rows of wooden buildings; the general merchandise stores, the two banks, the drug store, the feed store, the saloon, the post-office.
The board sidewalks were gray with trampled snow, but at two o'clock in the afternoon the shopkeepers, having come back from dinner, were keeping well behind their frosty windows.
The children were all in school, and there was nobody abroad in the streets but a few rough-looking countrymen in coarse overcoats, with their long caps pulled down to their noses.
Some of them had brought their wives to town, and now and then a red or a plaid shawl flashed out of one store into the shelter of another.
At the hitch-bars along the street a few heavy work-horses, harnessed to farm wagons, shivered under their blankets.
About the station everything was quiet, for there would not be another train in until night. On the sidewalk in front of one of the stores sat a little Swede boy, crying bitterly.
He was about five years old.
His black cloth coat was much too big for him and made him look like a little old man.
His shrunken brown flannel dress had been washed many times and left a long stretch of stocking between the hem of his skirt and the tops of his clumsy, copper-toed shoes.
His cap was pulled down over his ears; his nose and his chubby cheeks were chapped and red with cold.
He cried quietly, and the few people who hurried by did not notice him.
He was afraid to stop any one, afraid to go into the store and ask for help, so he sat wringing his long sleeves and looking up a telegraph pole beside him, whimpering, "My kitten, oh, my kitten!
At the top of the pole crouched a shivering gray kitten, mewing faintly and clinging desperately to the wood with her claws.
The boy had been left at the store while his sister went to the doctor's office, and in her absence a dog had chased his kitten up the pole.
The little creature had never been so high before, and she was too frightened to move.
Her master was sunk in despair.
He was a little country boy, and this village was to him a very strange and perplexing place, where people wore fine clothes and had hard hearts.
He always felt shy and awkward here, and wanted to hide behind things for fear some one might laugh at him.
Just now, he was too unhappy to care who laughed.
She had a serious, thoughtful face, and her clear, deep blue eyes were fixed intently on the distance, without seeming to see anything, as if she were in trouble.
She did not notice the little boy until he pulled her by the coat.
Then she stopped short and stooped down to wipe his wet face. "Why, Emil!
I told you to stay in the store and not to come out.
What is the matter with you?" "My kitten, sister, my kitten!
A man put her out, and a dog chased her up there.
His forefinger, projecting from the sleeve of his coat, pointed up to the wretched little creature on the pole. "Oh, Emil!
Didn't I tell you she'd get us into trouble of some kind, if you brought her?
What made you tease me so?
But there, I ought to have known better myself.
She went to the foot of the pole and held out her arms, crying, "Kitty, kitty, kitty," but the kitten only mewed and faintly waved its tail.
No, she won't come down.
Somebody will have to go up after her.
I saw the Linstrums' wagon in town.
I'll go and see if I can find Carl.
Maybe he can do something.
Only you must stop crying, or I won't go a step.
Did you leave it in the store?
He took his cigar out of his mouth and held the wet end between the fingers of his woolen glove.
My God, girl, what a head of hair!" he exclaimed, quite innocently and foolishly.
She stabbed him with a glance of Amazonian fierceness and drew in her lower lip-most unnecessary severity.
It gave the little clothing drummer such a start that he actually let his cigar fall to the sidewalk and went off weakly in the teeth of the wind to the saloon.
His hand was still unsteady when he took his glass from the bartender.
His feeble flirtatious instincts had been crushed before, but never so mercilessly.
He felt cheap and ill-used, as if some one had taken advantage of him.
I think at the depot they have some spikes I can strap on my feet.
Carl thrust his hands into his pockets, lowered his head, and darted up the street against the north wind.
He was a tall boy of fifteen, slight and narrow-chested.
When he came back with the spikes, Alexandra asked him what he had done with his overcoat. "I left it in the drug store.
I couldn't climb in it, anyhow.
Catch me if I fall, Emil," he called back as he began his ascent.
Alexandra watched him anxiously; the cold was bitter enough on the ground.
The kitten would not budge an inch.
Carl had to go to the very top of the pole, and then had some difficulty in tearing her from her hold.
When he reached the ground, he handed the cat to her tearful little master. "Now go into the store with her, Emil, and get warm.
He opened the door for the child.
Why can't I drive for you as far as our place?
It's getting colder every minute.
Have you seen the doctor?" "Yes.
He is coming over to-morrow.
But he says father can't get better; can't get well.
The wind flapped the skirts of her heavy coat about her. Carl did not say anything, but she felt his sympathy.
He was a thin, frail boy, with brooding dark eyes, very quiet in all his movements.
There was a delicate pallor in his thin face, and his mouth was too sensitive for a boy's.
The lips had already a little curl of bitterness and skepticism.
The two friends stood for a few moments on the windy street corner, not speaking a word, as two travelers, who have lost their way, sometimes stand and admit their perplexity in silence.
When Carl turned away he said, "I'll see to your team.
He was playing with a little Bohemian girl, Marie Tovesky, who was tying her handkerchief over the kitten's head for a bonnet.
Marie was a stranger in the country, having come from Omaha with her mother to visit her uncle, Joe Tovesky.
She was a dark child, with brown curly hair, like a brunette doll's, a coaxing little red mouth, and round, yellow-brown eyes.
This, with her poke bonnet, gave her the look of a quaint little woman.
His children were all boys, and he adored this little creature.
His cronies formed a circle about him, admiring and teasing the little girl, who took their jokes with great good nature.
They were all delighted with her, for they seldom saw so pretty and carefully nurtured a child.
Each of Joe's friends gave her a bag of candy, and she kissed them all around, though she did not like country candy very well.
Perhaps that was why she bethought herself of Emil.
Let me down, Uncle Joe," she said, "I want to give some of my candy to that nice little boy I found.
The women were checking over their groceries and pinning their big red shawls about their heads.
The men were buying tobacco and candy with what money they had left, were showing each other new boots and gloves and blue flannel shirts.
Three big Bohemians were drinking raw alcohol, tinctured with oil of cinnamon.
This was said to fortify one effectually against the cold, and they smacked their lips after each pull at the flask.
Come," he said, "I've fed and watered your team, and the wagon is ready.
He carried Emil out and tucked him down in the straw in the wagonbox.
The heat had made the little boy sleepy, but he still clung to his kitten. "You were awful good to climb so high and get my kitten, Carl.
When I get big I'll climb and get little boys' kittens for them," he murmured drowsily.
Before the horses were over the first hill, Emil and his cat were both fast asleep. Although it was only four o'clock, the winter day was fading.
The road led southwest, toward the streak of pale, watery light that glimmered in the leaden sky.
The homesteads were few and far apart; here and there a windmill gaunt against the sky, a sod house crouching in a hollow.
But the great fact was the land itself, which seemed to overwhelm the little beginnings of human society that struggled in its sombre wastes.
The two friends had less to say to each other than usual, as if the cold had somehow penetrated to their hearts. "Did Lou and Oscar go to the Blue to cut wood to-day?
I'm almost sorry I let them go, it's turned so cold.
But mother frets if the wood gets low.
She stopped and put her hand to her forehead, brushing back her hair.
I don't know what is to become of us, Carl, if father has to die.
I don't dare to think about it.
I wish we could all go with him and let the grass grow back over everything." Carl made no reply.
Just ahead of them was the Norwegian graveyard, where the grass had, indeed, grown back over everything, shaggy and red, hiding even the wire fence.
I almost feel as if there were nothing to go ahead for." "Does your father know?" "Yes, I think he does.
He lies and counts on his fingers all day.
I think he is trying to count up what he is leaving for us.
It's a comfort to him that my chickens are laying right on through the cold weather and bringing in a little money.
Have you got it?" "Yes.
It's back there in the straw.
Didn't you notice the box I was carrying?
I tried it all morning in the drug-store cellar, and it worked ever so well, makes fine big pictures." "What are they about?" "Oh, hunting pictures in Germany, and Robinson Crusoe and funny pictures about cannibals.
I'm going to paint some slides for it on glass, out of the Hans Andersen book." Alexandra seemed actually cheered.
There is often a good deal of the child left in people who have had to grow up too soon.
Do bring it over, Carl.
I can hardly wait to see it, and I'm sure it will please father.
Then I know he'll like them.
He likes the calendars I get him in town.
I wish I could get more.
You must leave me here, mustn't you?
It's been nice to have company." Carl stopped the horses and looked dubiously up at the black sky.
After a dozen trials he succeeded in lighting the lantern, which he placed in front of Alexandra, half covering it with a blanket so that the light would not shine in her eyes.
Now, wait until I find my box.
Yes, here it is. Good-night, Alexandra.
Carl sprang to the ground and ran off across the fields toward the Linstrum homestead.
Hoo, hoo-o-o-o!" he called back as he disappeared over a ridge and dropped into a sand gully.
The wind answered him like an echo, "Hoo, hoo-o-o-o-o-o!
This creek gave a sort of identity to the farms that bordered upon it.
Of all the bewildering things about a new country, the absence of human landmarks is one of the most depressing and disheartening.
The houses on the Divide were small and were usually tucked away in low places; you did not see them until you came directly upon them.
Most of them were built of the sod itself, and were only the unescapable ground in another form.
The roads were but faint tracks in the grass, and the fields were scarcely noticeable.
It was still a wild thing that had its ugly moods; and no one knew when they were likely to come, or why. Mischance hung over it.
Its Genius was unfriendly to man.
The sick man was feeling this as he lay looking out of the window, after the doctor had left him, on the day following Alexandra's trip to town.
There it lay outside his door, the same land, the same lead-colored miles.
He knew every ridge and draw and gully between him and the horizon.
To the south, his plowed fields; to the east, the sod stables, the cattle corral, the pond,-and then the grass. Bergson went over in his mind the things that had held him back.
One winter his cattle had perished in a blizzard.
The next summer one of his plow horses broke its leg in a prairiedog hole and had to be shot. Another summer he lost his hogs from cholera, and a valuable stallion died from a rattlesnake bite.
Time and again his crops had failed.
He had lost two children, boys, that came between Lou and Emil, and there had been the cost of sickness and death.
Now, when he had at last struggled out of debt, he was going to die himself.
He was only forty-six, and had, of course, counted upon more time. Bergson had spent his first five years on the Divide getting into debt, and the last six getting out.
He had paid off his mortgages and had ended pretty much where he began, with the land.
So far John had not attempted to cultivate the second half-section, but used it for pasture land, and one of his sons rode herd there in open weather. John Bergson had the Old-World belief that land, in itself, is desirable.
But this land was an enigma.
It was like a horse that no one knows how to break to harness, that runs wild and kicks things to pieces.
He had an idea that no one understood how to farm it properly, and this he often discussed with Alexandra.
Their neighbors, certainly, knew even less about farming than he did.
Many of them had never worked on a farm until they took up their homesteads.
They had been _handwerkers_ at home; tailors, locksmiths, joiners, cigar-makers, etc. Bergson himself had worked in a shipyard. For weeks, John Bergson had been thinking about these things.
His bed stood in the sitting-room, next to the kitchen.
Through the day, while the baking and washing and ironing were going on, the father lay and looked up at the roof beams that he himself had hewn, or out at the cattle in the corral.
He counted the cattle over and over.
It diverted him to speculate as to how much weight each of the steers would probably put on by spring.
He often called his daughter in to talk to her about this.
Before Alexandra was twelve years old she had begun to be a help to him, and as she grew older he had come to depend more and more upon her resourcefulness and good judgment.
His boys were willing enough to work, but when he talked with them they usually irritated him.
It was Alexandra who read the papers and followed the markets, and who learned by the mistakes of their neighbors.
It was Alexandra who could always tell about what it had cost to fatten each steer, and who could guess the weight of a hog before it went on the scales closer than John Bergson himself.
Lou and Oscar were industrious, but he could never teach them to use their heads about their work. Alexandra, her father often said to himself, was like her grandfather; which was his way of saying that she was intelligent.
John Bergson's father had been a shipbuilder, a man of considerable force and of some fortune.
Late in life he married a second time, a Stockholm woman of questionable character, much younger than he, who goaded him into every sort of extravagance.
On the shipbuilder's part, this marriage was an infatuation, the despairing folly of a powerful man who cannot bear to grow old.
In a few years his unprincipled wife warped the probity of a lifetime.
He speculated, lost his own fortune and funds entrusted to him by poor seafaring men, and died disgraced, leaving his children nothing.
But when all was said, he had come up from the sea himself, had built up a proud little business with no capital but his own skill and foresight, and had proved himself a man.
In his daughter, John Bergson recognized the strength of will, and the simple direct way of thinking things out, that had characterized his father in his better days.
He would much rather, of course, have seen this likeness in one of his sons, but it was not a question of choice.
The sick man heard his wife strike a match in the kitchen, and the light of a lamp glimmered through the cracks of the door.
It seemed like a light shining far away.
He turned painfully in his bed and looked at his white hands, with all the work gone out of them.
He was ready to give up, he felt.
He did not know how it had come about, but he was quite willing to go deep under his fields and rest, where the plow could not find him.
He was tired of making mistakes.
He felt her youth and strength, how easily she moved and stooped and lifted.
But he would not have had it again if he could, not he!
He knew the end too well to wish to begin again.
He knew where it all went to, what it all became. His daughter came and lifted him up on his pillows.
She called him by an old Swedish name that she used to call him when she was little and took his dinner to him in the shipyard. "Tell the boys to come here, daughter.
I want to speak to them." "They are feeding the horses, father.
They have just come back from the Blue.
Shall I call them?" He sighed.
No, no. Wait until they come in. Alexandra, you will have to do the best you can for your brothers.
Everything will come on you." "I will do all I can, father." "Don't let them get discouraged and go off like Uncle Otto.
I want them to keep the land." "We will, father.
We will never lose the land." There was a sound of heavy feet in the kitchen.
Alexandra went to the door and beckoned to her brothers, two strapping boys of seventeen and nineteen.
They came in and stood at the foot of the bed.
Their father looked at them searchingly, though it was too dark to see their faces; they were just the same boys, he told himself, he had not been mistaken in them.
The square head and heavy shoulders belonged to Oscar, the elder.
The younger boy was quicker, but vacillating. "Boys," said the father wearily, "I want you to keep the land together and to be guided by your sister.
I have talked to her since I have been sick, and she knows all my wishes.
I want no quarrels among my children, and so long as there is one house there must be one head. Alexandra is the oldest, and she knows my wishes.
She will do the best she can.
If she makes mistakes, she will not make so many as I have made.
When you marry, and want a house of your own, the land will be divided fairly, according to the courts.
But for the next few years you will have it hard, and you must all keep together.
Alexandra will manage the best she can." Oscar, who was usually the last to speak, replied because he was the older, "Yes, father.
It would be so anyway, without your speaking.
We will all work the place together." "And you will be guided by your sister, boys, and be good brothers to her, and good sons to your mother?
And Alexandra must not work in the fields any more.
There is no necessity now.
Hire a man when you need help.
She can make much more with her eggs and butter than the wages of a man.
It was one of my mistakes that I did not find that out sooner.
Try to break a little more land every year; sod corn is good for fodder.
Keep turning the land, and always put up more hay than you need.
Don't grudge your mother a little time for plowing her garden and setting out fruit trees, even if it comes in a busy season.
She has been a good mother to you, and she has always missed the old country." When they went back to the kitchen the boys sat down silently at the table.
Throughout the meal they looked down at their plates and did not lift their red eyes.
Mrs. Bergson was a fair-skinned, corpulent woman, heavy and placid like her son, Oscar, but there was something comfortable about her; perhaps it was her own love of comfort.
For eleven years she had worthily striven to maintain some semblance of household order amid conditions that made order very difficult.
She missed the fish diet of her own country, and twice every summer she sent the boys to the river, twenty miles to the southward, to fish for channel cat.
She had experimented even with the rank buffalo-pea, and she could not see a fine bronze cluster of them without shaking her head and murmuring, "What a pity!
When there was nothing more to preserve, she began to pickle.
The amount of sugar she used in these processes was sometimes a serious drain upon the family resources.
She was a good mother, but she was glad when her children were old enough not to be in her way in the kitchen.
She had never quite forgiven John Bergson for bringing her to the end of the earth; but, now that she was there, she wanted to be let alone to reconstruct her old life in so far as that was possible.
She could still take some comfort in the world if she had bacon in the cave, glass jars on the shelves, and sheets in the press.
She disapproved of all her neighbors because of their slovenly housekeeping, and the women thought her very proud.
Looking up he recognized the Bergsons' team, with two seats in the wagon, which meant they were off for a pleasure excursion.
Oscar stopped the horses and waved to Carl, who caught up his hat and ran through the melon patch to join them. "Want to go with us?
We're going to Crazy Ivar's to buy a hammock." "Sure.
Carl ran up panting, and clambering over the wheel sat down beside Emil.
I've always wanted to see Ivar's pond.
They say it's the biggest in all the country.
Aren't you afraid to go to Ivar's in that new shirt, Emil?
He might want it and take it right off your back." Emil grinned.
I'd be awful scared to go," he admitted, "if you big boys weren't along to take care of me.
Did you ever hear him howl, Carl?
People say sometimes he runs about the country howling at night because he is afraid the Lord will destroy him.
Mother thinks he must have done something awful wicked." Lou looked back and winked at Carl.
What would you do, Emil, if you was out on the prairie by yourself and seen him coming?" Emil stared.
Maybe I could hide in a badger-hole," he suggested doubtfully. "But suppose there wasn't any badger-hole," Lou persisted.
Would you run?" "No, I'd be too scared to run," Emil admitted mournfully, twisting his fingers.
I guess I'd sit right down on the ground and say my prayers." The big boys laughed, and Oscar brandished his whip over the broad backs of the horses. "He wouldn't hurt you, Emil," said Carl persuasively.
He came to doctor our mare when she ate green corn and swelled up most as big as the water-tank.
He petted her just like you do your cats.
They say when horses have distemper he takes the medicine himself, and then prays over the horses." Alexandra spoke up.
That's what the Crows said, but he cured their horses, all the same.
Some days his mind is cloudy, like.
But if you can get him on a clear day, you can learn a great deal from him.
Didn't I see him take the horn off the Berquist's cow when she had torn it loose and went crazy?
She was tearing all over the place, knocking herself against things.
And at last she ran out on the roof of the old dugout and her legs went through and there she stuck, bellowing.
And then didn't it hurt her any more?" he asked. Alexandra patted him.
And in two days they could use her milk again." The road to Ivar's homestead was a very poor one.
He had settled in the rough country across the county line, where no one lived but some Russians,-half a dozen families who dwelt together in one long house, divided off like barracks.
Ivar had explained his choice by saying that the fewer neighbors he had, the fewer temptations.
Nevertheless, when one considered that his chief business was horse-doctoring, it seemed rather short-sighted of him to live in the most inaccessible place he could find.
I wish I'd brought my gun, anyway, Alexandra," he said fretfully.
I could have hidden it under the straw in the bottom of the wagon." "Then we'd have had to lie to Ivar.
Besides, they say he can smell dead birds.
And if he knew, we wouldn't get anything out of him, not even a hammock.
I want to talk to him, and he won't talk sense if he's angry. It makes him foolish." Lou sniffed.
Whoever heard of him talking sense, anyhow!
I'd rather have ducks for supper than Crazy Ivar's tongue." Emil was alarmed.
Oh, but, Lou, you don't want to make him mad!
He might howl!" They all laughed again, and Oscar urged the horses up the crumbling side of a clay bank.
They had left the lagoons and the red grass behind them.
In Crazy Ivar's country the grass was short and gray, the draws deeper than they were in the Bergsons' neighborhood, and the land was all broken up into hillocks and clay ridges.
The wild flowers disappeared, and only in the bottom of the draws and gullies grew a few of the very toughest and hardiest: shoestring, and ironweed, and snow-on-the-mountain. "Look, look, Emil, there's Ivar's big pond!
Alexandra pointed to a shining sheet of water that lay at the bottom of a shallow draw.
At one end of the pond was an earthen dam, planted with green willow bushes, and above it a door and a single window were set into the hillside.
You would not have seen them at all but for the reflection of the sunlight upon the four panes of window-glass.
And that was all you saw.
Not a shed, not a corral, not a well, not even a path broken in the curly grass.
But for the piece of rusty stovepipe sticking up through the sod, you could have walked over the roof of Ivar's dwelling without dreaming that you were near a human habitation.
He was a queerly shaped old man, with a thick, powerful body set on short bow-legs.
His shaggy white hair, falling in a thick mane about his ruddy cheeks, made him look older than he was.
He was barefoot, but he wore a clean shirt of unbleached cotton, open at the neck.
He always put on a clean shirt when Sunday morning came round, though he never went to church.
He had a peculiar religion of his own and could not get on with any of the denominations.
Often he did not see anybody from one week's end to another.
He kept a calendar, and every morning he checked off a day, so that he was never in any doubt as to which day of the week it was.
Ivar hired himself out in threshing and corn-husking time, and he doctored sick animals when he was sent for.
He preferred the cleanness and tidiness of the wild sod.
He always said that the badgers had cleaner houses than people, and that when he took a housekeeper her name would be Mrs. Badger.
He best expressed his preference for his wild homestead by saying that his Bible seemed truer to him there.
Not many birds just now.
A few ducks this morning; and some snipe come to drink.
But there was a crane last week.
She spent one night and came back the next evening.
It is not her season, of course.
Many of them go over in the fall.
Then the pond is full of strange voices every night." Alexandra translated for Carl, who looked thoughtful.
Ask him, Alexandra, if it is true that a sea gull came here once.
I have heard so." She had some difficulty in making the old man understand. He looked puzzled at first, then smote his hands together as he remembered.
A big white bird with long wings and pink feet.
My! what a voice she had!
She came in the afternoon and kept flying about the pond and screaming until dark.
She was in trouble of some sort, but I could not understand her.
She was going over to the other ocean, maybe, and did not know how far it was.
She was afraid of never getting there.
She was more mournful than our birds here; she cried in the night.
She saw the light from my window and darted up to it.
Maybe she thought my house was a boat, she was such a wild thing. Next morning, when the sun rose, I went out to take her food, but she flew up into the sky and went on her way.
Ivar ran his fingers through his thick hair.
I have many strange birds stop with me here.
They come from very far away and are great company.
I hope you boys never shoot wild birds?" Lou and Oscar grinned, and Ivar shook his bushy head.
Yes, I know boys are thoughtless.
But these wild things are God's birds.
He watches over them and counts them, as we do our cattle; Christ says so in the New Testament." "Now, Ivar," Lou asked, "may we water our horses at your pond and give them some feed?
It's a bad road to your place." "Yes, yes, it is.
The old man scrambled about and began to loose the tugs.
A bad road, eh, girls?
And the bay with a colt at home!" Oscar brushed the old man aside.
We'll take care of the horses, Ivar. You'll be finding some disease on them.
Alexandra wants to see your hammocks." Ivar led Alexandra and Emil to his little cave house.
He had but one room, neatly plastered and whitewashed, and there was a wooden floor. There was a kitchen stove, a table covered with oilcloth, two chairs, a clock, a calendar, a few books on the window-shelf; nothing more.
But the place was as clean as a cupboard. "But where do you sleep, Ivar?
Emil asked, looking about. Ivar unslung a hammock from a hook on the wall; in it was rolled a buffalo robe.
A hammock is a good bed, and in winter I wrap up in this skin.
Where I go to work, the beds are not half so easy as this." By this time Emil had lost all his timidity.
He thought a cave a very superior kind of house.
There was something pleasantly unusual about it and about Ivar.
Do the birds know you will be kind to them, Ivar?
Is that why so many come?" he asked. Ivar sat down on the floor and tucked his feet under him.
See, little brother, they have come from a long way, and they are very tired.
From up there where they are flying, our country looks dark and flat.
They must have water to drink and to bathe in before they can go on with their journey.
They look this way and that, and far below them they see something shining, like a piece of glass set in the dark earth.
They come to it and are not disturbed.
Maybe I sprinkle a little corn.
They tell the other birds, and next year more come this way.
They have their roads up there, as we have down here." Emil rubbed his knees thoughtfully.
And is that true, Ivar, about the head ducks falling back when they are tired, and the hind ones taking their place?" "Yes.
The point of the wedge gets the worst of it; they cut the wind. They can only stand it there a little while-half an hour, maybe.
Then they fall back and the wedge splits a little, while the rear ones come up the middle to the front.
Then it closes up and they fly on, with a new edge.
They are always changing like that, up in the air.
Never any confusion; just like soldiers who have been drilled." Alexandra had selected her hammock by the time the boys came up from the pond.
Ivar was sitting on the floor at her feet.
Ivar," she said suddenly, beginning to trace the pattern on the oilcloth with her forefinger, "I came to-day more because I wanted to talk to you than because I wanted to buy a hammock." "Yes?
The old man scraped his bare feet on the plank floor. "We have a big bunch of hogs, Ivar.
I wouldn't sell in the spring, when everybody advised me to, and now so many people are losing their hogs that I am frightened.
What can be done?" Ivar's little eyes began to shine.
They lost their vagueness. "You feed them swill and such stuff?
Oh, yes! And keep them in a stinking pen?
I tell you, sister, the hogs of this country are put upon!
They become unclean, like the hogs in the Bible. If you kept your chickens like that, what would happen?
You have a little sorghum patch, maybe?
Put a fence around it, and turn the hogs in. Build a shed to give them shade, a thatch on poles.
Let the boys haul water to them in barrels, clean water, and plenty.
Get them off the old stinking ground, and do not let them go back there until winter.
Give them only grain and clean feed, such as you would give horses or cattle.
Hogs do not like to be filthy." The boys outside the door had been listening.
Lou nudged his brother. "Come, the horses are done eating.
Let's hitch up and get out of here. He'll fill her full of notions.
She'll be for having the pigs sleep with us, next." Oscar grunted and got up.
Carl, who could not understand what Ivar said, saw that the two boys were displeased.
They did not mind hard work, but they hated experiments and could never see the use of taking pains.
Even Lou, who was more elastic than his older brother, disliked to do anything different from their neighbors.
He felt that it made them conspicuous and gave people a chance to talk about them. Once they were on the homeward road, the boys forgot their ill-humor and joked about Ivar and his birds.
Alexandra did not propose any reforms in the care of the pigs, and they hoped she had forgotten Ivar's talk.
The boys persuaded Carl to stay for supper and go swimming in the pasture pond after dark. That evening, after she had washed the supper dishes, Alexandra sat down on the kitchen doorstep, while her mother was mixing the bread.
It was a still, deep-breathing summer night, full of the smell of the hay fields.
Then came the hard times that brought every one on the Divide to the brink of despair; three years of drouth and failure, the last struggle of a wild soil against the encroaching plowshare.
The first of these fruitless summers the Bergson boys bore courageously.
The failure of the corn crop made labor cheap.
Lou and Oscar hired two men and put in bigger crops than ever before.
They lost everything they spent.
The whole country was discouraged.
Farmers who were already in debt had to give up their land.
A few foreclosures demoralized the county.
The Bergson boys, certainly, would have been happier with their uncle Otto, in the bakery shop in Chicago.
Like most of their neighbors, they were meant to follow in paths already marked out for them, not to break trails in a new country.
A steady job, a few holidays, nothing to think about, and they would have been very happy.
It was no fault of theirs that they had been dragged into the wilderness when they were little boys.
A pioneer should have imagination, should be able to enjoy the idea of things more than the things themselves. The second of these barren summers was passing.
One September afternoon Alexandra had gone over to the garden across the draw to dig sweet potatoes-they had been thriving upon the weather that was fatal to everything else.
But when Carl Linstrum came up the garden rows to find her, she was not working.
She was standing lost in thought, leaning upon her pitchfork, her sunbonnet lying beside her on the ground.
The dry garden patch smelled of drying vines and was strewn with yellow seed-cucumbers and pumpkins and citrons.
At one end, next the rhubarb, grew feathery asparagus, with red berries.
Down the middle of the garden was a row of gooseberry and currant bushes.
A few tough zenias and marigolds and a row of scarlet sage bore witness to the buckets of water that Mrs. Bergson had carried there after sundown, against the prohibition of her sons.
Carl came quietly and slowly up the garden path, looking intently at Alexandra.
She did not hear him.
She was standing perfectly still, with that serious ease so characteristic of her.
Her thick, reddish braids, twisted about her head, fairly burned in the sunlight.
The air was cool enough to make the warm sun pleasant on one's back and shoulders, and so clear that the eye could follow a hawk up and up, into the blazing blue depths of the sky.
He picked up her sack of potatoes and they crossed the garden.
Boys gone to town?" he asked as he sank down on the warm, sun-baked earth.
Well, we have made up our minds at last, Alexandra.
We are really going away." She looked at him as if she were a little frightened.
Is it settled?" "Yes, father has heard from St. Louis, and they will give him back his old job in the cigar factory.
He must be there by the first of November.
They are taking on new men then.
We will sell the place for whatever we can get, and auction the stock.
We haven't enough to ship. I am going to learn engraving with a German engraver there, and then try to get work in Chicago." Alexandra's hands dropped in her lap.
Her eyes became dreamy and filled with tears. Carl's sensitive lower lip trembled.
He scratched in the soft earth beside him with a stick.
That's all I hate about it, Alexandra," he said slowly.
You've stood by us through so much and helped father out so many times, and now it seems as if we were running off and leaving you to face the worst of it.
But it isn't as if we could really ever be of any help to you.
We are only one more drag, one more thing you look out for and feel responsible for.
Father was never meant for a farmer, you know that.
We'd only get in deeper and deeper." "Yes, yes, Carl, I know.
You are wasting your life here.
You are able to do much better things.
You are nearly nineteen now, and I wouldn't have you stay.
I've always hoped you would get away.
But I can't help feeling scared when I think how I will miss you-more than you will ever know.
It's by understanding me, and the boys, and mother, that you've helped me.
I expect that is the only way one person ever really can help another.
I think you are about the only one that ever helped me. Somehow it will take more courage to bear your going than everything that has happened before." Carl looked at the ground.
You see, we've all depended so on you," he said, "even father.
When anything comes up he always says, 'I wonder what the Bergsons are going to do about that?
I guess I'll go and ask her.
You were only a little girl then, but you knew ever so much more about farm work than poor father.
You remember how homesick I used to get, and what long talks we used to have coming from school?
We've someway always felt alike about things." "Yes, that's it; we've liked the same things and we've liked them together, without anybody else knowing.
And we've had good times, hunting for Christmas trees and going for ducks and making our plum wine together every year.
We've never either of us had any other close friend.
And now-" Alexandra wiped her eyes with the corner of her apron, "and now I must remember that you are going where you will have many friends, and will find the work you were meant to do.
But you'll write to me, Carl?
That will mean a great deal to me here." "I'll write as long as I live," cried the boy impetuously.
And I'll be working for you as much as for myself, Alexandra.
I want to do something you'll like and be proud of.
I'm a fool here, but I know I can do something!
He sat up and frowned at the red grass. Alexandra sighed.
How discouraged the boys will be when they hear. They always come home from town discouraged, anyway.
So many people are trying to leave the country, and they talk to our boys and make them low-spirited.
I'm afraid they are beginning to feel hard toward me because I won't listen to any talk about going.
Sometimes I feel like I'm getting tired of standing up for this country." "I won't tell the boys yet, if you'd rather not." "Oh, I'll tell them myself, to-night, when they come home.
They'll be talking wild, anyway, and no good comes of keeping bad news.
It's all harder on them than it is on me.
Lou wants to get married, poor boy, and he can't until times are better.
See, there goes the sun, Carl.
I must be getting back.
Mother will want her potatoes.
It's chilly already, the moment the light goes." Alexandra rose and looked about.
A golden afterglow throbbed in the west, but the country already looked empty and mournful.
A dark moving mass came over the western hill, the Lee boy was bringing in the herd from the other half-section.
Emil ran from the windmill to open the corral gate.
From the log house, on the little rise across the draw, the smoke was curling.
The cattle lowed and bellowed.
In the sky the pale half-moon was slowly silvering.
Alexandra and Carl walked together down the potato rows.
I have to keep telling myself what is going to happen," she said softly.
Since you have been here, ten years now, I have never really been lonely.
But I can remember what it was like before.
Now I shall have nobody but Emil.
But he is my boy, and he is tender-hearted." That night, when the boys were called to supper, they sat down moodily. They had worn their coats to town, but they ate in their striped shirts and suspenders.
Oscar could not grow a mustache; his pale face was as bare as an egg, and his white eyebrows gave it an empty look.
He was a man of powerful body and unusual endurance; the sort of man you could attach to a corn-sheller as you would an engine.
He would turn it all day, without hurrying, without slowing down.
But he was as indolent of mind as he was unsparing of his body.
His love of routine amounted to a vice.
If a field had once been in corn, he couldn't bear to put it into wheat.
He liked to begin his corn-planting at the same time every year, whether the season were backward or forward.
He seemed to feel that by his own irreproachable regularity he would clear himself of blame and reprove the weather.
He liked to keep the place up, but he never got round to doing odd jobs until he had to neglect more pressing work to attend to them.
The two boys balanced each other, and they pulled well together.
They had been good friends since they were children.
One seldom went anywhere, even to town, without the other. To-night, after they sat down to supper, Oscar kept looking at Lou as if he expected him to say something, and Lou blinked his eyes and frowned at his plate.
It was Alexandra herself who at last opened the discussion. "The Linstrums," she said calmly, as she put another plate of hot biscuit on the table, "are going back to St. Louis.
The old man is going to work in the cigar factory again." At this Lou plunged in. "You see, Alexandra, everybody who can crawl out is going away.
There's no use of us trying to stick it out, just to be stubborn.
There's something in knowing when to quit." "Where do you want to go, Lou?" "Any place where things will grow," said Oscar grimly. Lou reached for a potato.
Chris Arnson has traded his half-section for a place down on the river." "Who did he trade with?" "Charley Fuller, in town." "Fuller the real estate man?
You see, Lou, that Fuller has a head on him.
He's buying and trading for every bit of land he can get up here. It'll make him a rich man, some day." "He's rich now, that's why he can take a chance." "Why can't we?
We'll live longer than he will.
Some day the land itself will be worth more than all we can ever raise on it." Lou laughed.
It could be worth that, and still not be worth much.
Why, Alexandra, you don't know what you're talking about.
Our place wouldn't bring now what it would six years ago.
The fellows that settled up here just made a mistake.
Now they're beginning to see this high land wasn't never meant to grow nothing on, and everybody who ain't fixed to graze cattle is trying to crawl out.
It's too high to farm up here.
All the Americans are skinning out.
That man Percy Adams, north of town, told me that he was going to let Fuller take his land and stuff for four hundred dollars and a ticket to Chicago." "There's Fuller again!
I wish that man would take me for a partner.
If only poor people could learn a little from rich people!
But all these fellows who are running off are bad farmers, like poor Mr. Linstrum.
They couldn't get ahead even in good years, and they all got into debt while father was getting out.
I think we ought to hold on as long as we can on father's account.
He was so set on keeping this land.
He must have seen harder times than this, here.
How was it in the early days, mother?" Mrs. Bergson was weeping quietly.
These family discussions always depressed her, and made her remember all that she had been torn away from.
I don't see why the boys are always taking on about going away," she said, wiping her eyes.
I don't want to move again; out to some raw place, maybe, where we'd be worse off than we are here, and all to do over again.
If the rest of you go, I will ask some of the neighbors to take me in, and stay and be buried by father.
I'm not going to leave him by himself on the prairie, for cattle to run over." She began to cry more bitterly. The boys looked angry.
Alexandra put a soothing hand on her mother's shoulder.
There's no question of that, mother.
You don't have to go if you don't want to.
A third of the place belongs to you by American law, and we can't sell without your consent.
We only want you to advise us. How did it use to be when you and father first came?
Was it really as bad as this, or not?" "Oh, worse!
Much worse," moaned Mrs. Bergson.
My garden all cut to pieces like sauerkraut.
No grapes on the creek, no nothing.
The people all lived just like coyotes." Oscar got up and tramped out of the kitchen.
They felt that Alexandra had taken an unfair advantage in turning their mother loose on them.
The next morning they were silent and reserved. They did not offer to take the women to church, but went down to the barn immediately after breakfast and stayed there all day.
When Carl Linstrum came over in the afternoon, Alexandra winked to him and pointed toward the barn.
He understood her and went down to play cards with the boys.
They believed that a very wicked thing to do on Sunday, and it relieved their feelings. Alexandra stayed in the house.
On Sunday afternoon Mrs. Bergson always took a nap, and Alexandra read.
During the week she read only the newspaper, but on Sunday, and in the long evenings of winter, she read a good deal; read a few things over a great many times.
She knew long portions of the "Frithjof Saga" by heart, and, like most Swedes who read at all, she was fond of Longfellow's verse,-the ballads and the "Golden Legend" and "The Spanish Student.
To-day she sat in the wooden rocking-chair with the Swedish Bible open on her knees, but she was not reading.
She was looking thoughtfully away at the point where the upland road disappeared over the rim of the prairie.
Her body was in an attitude of perfect repose, such as it was apt to take when she was thinking earnestly.
Her mind was slow, truthful, steadfast.
She had not the least spark of cleverness. All afternoon the sitting-room was full of quiet and sunlight.
Emil was making rabbit traps in the kitchen shed.
Because I am going to take a trip, and you can go with me if you want to." The boys looked up in amazement; they were always afraid of Alexandra's schemes.
Carl was interested. "I've been thinking, boys," she went on, "that maybe I am too set against making a change.
I'm going to take Brigham and the buckboard to-morrow and drive down to the river country and spend a few days looking over what they've got down there.
If I find anything good, you boys can go down and make a trade." "Nobody down there will trade for anything up here," said Oscar gloomily. "That's just what I want to find out.
Maybe they are just as discontented down there as we are up here.
Things away from home often look better than they are.
You know what your Hans Andersen book says, Carl, about the Swedes liking to buy Danish bread and the Danes liking to buy Swedish bread, because people always think the bread of another country is better than their own.
Anyway, I've heard so much about the river farms, I won't be satisfied till I've seen for myself." Lou fidgeted.
Don't let them fool you." Lou was apt to be fooled himself.
It was not long before the two boys at the table neglected their game to listen.
Alexandra talked to the men about their crops and to the women about their poultry.
She spent a whole day with one young farmer who had been away at school, and who was experimenting with a new kind of clover hay.
She learned a great deal.
As they drove along, she and Emil talked and planned.
At last, on the sixth day, Alexandra turned Brigham's head northward and left the river behind. "There's nothing in it for us down there, Emil.
There are a few fine farms, but they are owned by the rich men in town, and couldn't be bought.
Most of the land is rough and hilly.
They can always scrape along down there, but they can never do anything big.
Down there they have a little certainty, but up with us there is a big chance.
We must have faith in the high land, Emil.
I want to hold on harder than ever, and when you're a man you'll thank me.
She urged Brigham forward. When the road began to climb the first long swells of the Divide, Alexandra hummed an old Swedish hymn, and Emil wondered why his sister looked so happy.
Her face was so radiant that he felt shy about asking her.
For the first time, perhaps, since that land emerged from the waters of geologic ages, a human face was set toward it with love and yearning.
It seemed beautiful to her, rich and strong and glorious.
Her eyes drank in the breadth of it, until her tears blinded her.
Then the Genius of the Divide, the great, free spirit which breathes across it, must have bent lower than it ever bent to a human will before.
The history of every country begins in the heart of a man or a woman. Alexandra reached home in the afternoon.
That evening she held a family council and told her brothers all that she had seen and heard. "I want you boys to go down yourselves and look it over.
Nothing will convince you like seeing with your own eyes.
The river land was settled before this, and so they are a few years ahead of us, and have learned more about farming.
The land sells for three times as much as this, but in five years we will double it.
The rich men down there own all the best land, and they are buying all they can get.
The thing to do is to sell our cattle and what little old corn we have, and buy the Linstrum place.
Then the next thing to do is to take out two loans on our half-sections, and buy Peter Crow's place; raise every dollar we can, and buy every acre we can." "Mortgage the homestead again?
He sprang up and began to wind the clock furiously.
I won't slave to pay off another mortgage. I'll never do it.
You'd just as soon kill us all, Alexandra, to carry out some scheme!" Oscar rubbed his high, pale forehead.
How do you propose to pay off your mortgages?" Alexandra looked from one to the other and bit her lip.
They had never seen her so nervous.
See here," she brought out at last.
We borrow the money for six years.
Well, with the money we buy a half-section from Linstrum and a half from Crow, and a quarter from Struble, maybe. That will give us upwards of fourteen hundred acres, won't it?
You won't have to pay off your mortgages for six years.
By that time, any of this land will be worth thirty dollars an acre-it will be worth fifty, but we'll say thirty; then you can sell a garden patch anywhere, and pay off a debt of sixteen hundred dollars.
It's not the principal I'm worried about, it's the interest and taxes.
We'll have to strain to meet the payments.
But as sure as we are sitting here to-night, we can sit down here ten years from now independent landowners, not struggling farmers any longer.
The chance that father was always looking for has come." Lou was pacing the floor.
But how do you _know_ that land is going to go up enough to pay the mortgages and-" "And make us rich besides?
I can't explain that, Lou.
You'll have to take my word for it.
I _know_, that's all. When you drive about over the country you can feel it coming." Oscar had been sitting with his head lowered, his hands hanging between his knees.
But we can't work so much land," he said dully, as if he were talking to himself.
It would just lie there and we'd work ourselves to death.
He sighed, and laid his calloused fist on the table. Alexandra's eyes filled with tears.
She put her hand on his shoulder. "You poor boy, you won't have to work it.
The men in town who are buying up other people's land don't try to farm it.
They are the men to watch, in a new country.
Let's try to do like the shrewd ones, and not like these stupid fellows.
I don't want you boys always to have to work like this.
I want you to be independent, and Emil to go to school." Lou held his head as if it were splitting.
Everybody will say we are crazy.
It must be crazy, or everybody would be doing it." "If they were, we wouldn't have much chance.
No, Lou, I was talking about that with the smart young man who is raising the new kind of clover.
He says the right thing is usually just what everybody don't do.
Why are we better fixed than any of our neighbors?
Because father had more brains.
Our people were better people than these in the old country.
We _ought_ to do more than they do, and see further ahead. Yes, mother, I'm going to clear the table now." Alexandra rose.
The boys went to the stable to see to the stock, and they were gone a long while.
When they came back Lou played on his _dragharmonika_ and Oscar sat figuring at his father's secretary all evening.
They said nothing more about Alexandra's project, but she felt sure now that they would consent to it.
Just before bedtime Oscar went out for a pail of water.
When he did not come back, Alexandra threw a shawl over her head and ran down the path to the windmill.
She found him sitting there with his head in his hands, and she sat down beside him. "Don't do anything you don't want to do, Oscar," she whispered.
She waited a moment, but he did not stir.
I won't say any more about it, if you'd rather not.
What makes you so discouraged?" "I dread signing my name to them pieces of paper," he said slowly.
All the time I was a boy we had a mortgage hanging over us." "Then don't sign one.
I don't want you to, if you feel that way." Oscar shook his head.
No, I can see there's a chance that way.
I've thought a good while there might be.
We're in so deep now, we might as well go deeper.
But it's hard work pulling out of debt.
Like pulling a threshing-machine out of the mud; breaks your back.
Me and Lou's worked hard, and I can't see it's got us ahead much." "Nobody knows about that as well as I do, Oscar.
That's why I want to try an easier way.
I don't want you to have to grub for every dollar." "Yes, I know what you mean.
Maybe it'll come out right.
But signing papers is signing papers.
There ain't no maybe about that.
She always loved to watch them, to think of their vastness and distance, and of their ordered march.
It fortified her to reflect upon the great operations of nature, and when she thought of the law that lay behind them, she felt a sense of personal security.
That night she had a new consciousness of the country, felt almost a new relation to it.
Even her talk with the boys had not taken away the feeling that had overwhelmed her when she drove back to the Divide that afternoon.
She had never known before how much the country meant to her.
The chirping of the insects down in the long grass had been like the sweetest music.
His wife now lies beside him, and the white shaft that marks their graves gleams across the wheat-fields.
Could he rise from beneath it, he would not know the country under which he has been asleep.
The shaggy coat of the prairie, which they lifted to make him a bed, has vanished forever.
From the Norwegian graveyard one looks out over a vast checker-board, marked off in squares of wheat and corn; light and dark, dark and light.
Telephone wires hum along the white roads, which always run at right angles.
From the graveyard gate one can count a dozen gayly painted farmhouses; the gilded weather-vanes on the big red barns wink at each other across the green and brown and yellow fields.
The rich soil yields heavy harvests; the dry, bracing climate and the smoothness of the land make labor easy for men and beasts.
The wheat-cutting sometimes goes on all night as well as all day, and in good seasons there are scarcely men and horses enough to do the harvesting.
The grain is so heavy that it bends toward the blade and cuts like velvet. There is something frank and joyous and young in the open face of the country.
It gives itself ungrudgingly to the moods of the season, holding nothing back.
Like the plains of Lombardy, it seems to rise a little to meet the sun. The air and the earth are curiously mated and intermingled, as if the one were the breath of the other.
He wore a flannel cap and duck trousers, and the sleeves of his white flannel shirt were rolled back to the elbow.
When he was satisfied with the edge of his blade, he slipped the whetstone into his hip pocket and began to swing his scythe, still whistling, but softly, out of respect to the quiet folk about him.
Unconscious respect, probably, for he seemed intent upon his own thoughts, and, like the Gladiator's, they were far away.
He was a splendid figure of a boy, tall and straight as a young pine tree, with a handsome head, and stormy gray eyes, deeply set under a serious brow.
He was not thinking about the tired pioneers over whom his blade glittered.
The old wild country, the struggle in which his sister was destined to succeed while so many men broke their hearts and died, he can scarcely remember.
Supposing that it was his sister coming back from one of her farms, he kept on with his work.
The cart stopped at the gate and a merry contralto voice called, "Almost through, Emil?
He dropped his scythe and went toward the fence, wiping his face and neck with his handkerchief.
In the cart sat a young woman who wore driving gauntlets and a wide shade hat, trimmed with red poppies.
Her face, too, was rather like a poppy, round and brown, with rich color in her cheeks and lips, and her dancing yellow-brown eyes bubbled with gayety.
The wind was flapping her big hat and teasing a curl of her chestnut-colored hair.
She shook her head at the tall youth. "What time did you get over here?
That's not much of a job for an athlete.
Here I've been to town and back.
Alexandra lets you sleep late.
Lou's wife was telling me about the way she spoils you.
I was going to give you a lift, if you were done.
She gathered up her reins. "But I will be, in a minute.
Please wait for me, Marie," Emil coaxed. "Alexandra sent me to mow our lot, but I've done half a dozen others, you see.
Just wait till I finish off the Kourdnas'.
By the way, they were Bohemians.
Why aren't they up in the Catholic graveyard?" "Free-thinkers," replied the young woman laconically. "Lots of the Bohemian boys at the University are," said Emil, taking up his scythe again.
What did you ever burn John Huss for, anyway?
It's made an awful row.
Emil mowed vigorously and Marie sat sunning herself and watching the long grass fall.
She sat with the ease that belongs to persons of an essentially happy nature, who can find a comfortable spot almost anywhere; who are supple, and quick in adapting themselves to circumstances.
After a final swish, Emil snapped the gate and sprang into the cart, holding his scythe well out over the wheel.
I gave old man Lee a cut or so, too.
Lou's wife needn't talk. I never see Lou's scythe over here." Marie clucked to her horse.
She looked at the young man's bare arms.
How brown you've got since you came home.
I wish I had an athlete to mow my orchard.
I get wet to my knees when I go down to pick cherries." "You can have one, any time you want him.
Better wait until after it rains.
Emil squinted off at the horizon as if he were looking for clouds. "Will you?
Oh, there's a good boy!
She turned her head to him with a quick, bright smile.
He felt it rather than saw it.
Indeed, he had looked away with the purpose of not seeing it.
Is anybody but you going to stand up with him?
Well, then it will be a handsome wedding party.
There will be barrels of beer.
If once I get Frank to the supper, I'll see that I stay for the dance.
And by the way, Emil, you mustn't dance with me but once or twice.
You must dance with all the French girls.
It hurts their feelings if you don't.
They think you're proud because you've been away to school or something." Emil sniffed.
There were so many sheds and outbuildings grouped about it that the place looked not unlike a tiny village.
A stranger, approaching it, could not help noticing the beauty and fruitfulness of the outlying fields.
There was something individual about the great farm, a most unusual trimness and care for detail.
On either side of the road, for a mile before you reached the foot of the hill, stood tall osage orange hedges, their glossy green marking off the yellow fields.
South of the hill, in a low, sheltered swale, surrounded by a mulberry hedge, was the orchard, its fruit trees knee-deep in timothy grass.
One room is papered, carpeted, over-furnished; the next is almost bare.
There is even a white row of beehives in the orchard, under the walnut trees.
He slipped into his empty place at his sister's right.
The three pretty young Swedish girls who did Alexandra's housework were cutting pies, refilling coffeecups, placing platters of bread and meat and potatoes upon the red tablecloth, and continually getting in each other's way between the table and the stove.
To be sure they always wasted a good deal of time getting in each other's way and giggling at each other's mistakes.
But, as Alexandra had pointedly told her sisters-in-law, it was to hear them giggle that she kept three young things in her kitchen; the work she could do herself, if it were necessary.
Signa is apt to be skittish at mealtime, when the men are about, and to spill the coffee or upset the cream.
Nelse watches her glumly as she waits upon the table, and in the evening he sits on a bench behind the stove with his DRAGHARMONIKA, playing mournful airs and watching her as she goes about her work.
When Alexandra asked Signa whether she thought Nelse was in earnest, the poor child hid her hands under her apron and murmured, "I don't know, ma'm.
But he scolds me about everything, like as if he wanted to have me!" At Alexandra's left sat a very old man, barefoot and wearing a long blue blouse, open at the neck.
His shaggy head is scarcely whiter than it was sixteen years ago, but his little blue eyes have become pale and watery, and his ruddy face is withered, like an apple that has clung all winter to the tree.
When Ivar lost his land through mismanagement a dozen years ago, Alexandra took him in, and he has been a member of her household ever since.
He is too old to work in the fields, but he hitches and unhitches the work-teams and looks after the health of the stock.
Sometimes of a winter evening Alexandra calls him into the sitting-room to read the Bible aloud to her, for he still reads very well.
He dislikes human habitations, so Alexandra has fitted him up a room in the barn, where he is very comfortable, being near the horses and, as he says, further from temptations.
No one has ever found out what his temptations are.
In cold weather he sits by the kitchen fire and makes hammocks or mends harness until it is time to go to bed.
Then he says his prayers at great length behind the stove, puts on his buffalo-skin coat and goes out to his room in the barn. Alexandra herself has changed very little.
Her figure is fuller, and she has more color.
She seems sunnier and more vigorous than she did as a young girl.
But she still has the same calmness and deliberation of manner, the same clear eyes, and she still wears her hair in two braids wound round her head.
It is so curly that fiery ends escape from the braids and make her head look like one of the big double sunflowers that fringe her vegetable garden.
Her face is always tanned in summer, for her sunbonnet is oftener on her arm than on her head.
It happened to be the first silo on the Divide, and Alexandra's neighbors and her men were skeptical about it.
To be sure, if the thing don't work, we'll have plenty of feed without it, indeed," Barney conceded. Nelse Jensen, Signa's gloomy suitor, had his word.
Lou, he says he wouldn't have no silo on his place if you'd give it to him.
He says the feed outen it gives the stock the bloat.
He heard of somebody lost four head of horses, feedin' 'em that stuff." Alexandra looked down the table from one to another.
Well, the only way we can find out is to try.
Lou and I have different notions about feeding stock, and that's a good thing.
It's bad if all the members of a family think alike.
Lou can learn by my mistakes and I can learn by his.
Isn't that fair, Barney?" The Irishman laughed.
He had no love for Lou, who was always uppish with him and who said that Alexandra paid her hands too much.
I've no thought but to give the thing an honest try, mum.
T would be only right, after puttin' so much expense into it.
Maybe Emil will come out an' have a look at it wid me.
He pushed back his chair, took his hat from the nail, and marched out with Emil, who, with his university ideas, was supposed to have instigated the silo.
The other hands followed them, all except old Ivar.
He had been depressed throughout the meal and had paid no heed to the talk of the men, even when they mentioned cornstalk bloat, upon which he was sure to have opinions. "Did you want to speak to me, Ivar?
Alexandra asked as she rose from the table.
Come into the sitting-room." The old man followed Alexandra, but when she motioned him to a chair he shook his head.
She took up her workbasket and waited for him to speak. He stood looking at the carpet, his bushy head bowed, his hands clasped in front of him.
Ivar's bandy legs seemed to have grown shorter with years, and they were completely misfitted to his broad, thick body and heavy shoulders. "Well, Ivar, what is it?
Alexandra asked after she had waited longer than usual. Ivar had never learned to speak English and his Norwegian was quaint and grave, like the speech of the more old-fashioned people.
You know there has been talk." "Talk about what, Ivar?" "About sending me away; to the asylum." Alexandra put down her sewing-basket.
Nobody has come to me with such talk," she said decidedly.
They say that your brothers are afraid-God forbid!-that I may do you some injury when my spells are on me.
Mistress, how can any one think that?-that I could bite the hand that fed me!
The tears trickled down on the old man's beard. Alexandra frowned.
Ivar, I wonder at you, that you should come bothering me with such nonsense.
I am still running my own house, and other people have nothing to do with either you or me.
So long as I am suited with you, there is nothing to be said." Ivar pulled a red handkerchief out of the breast of his blouse and wiped his eyes and beard.
You know that my spells come from God, and that I would not harm any living creature.
You believe that every one should worship God in the way revealed to him.
But that is not the way of this country. The way here is for all to do alike.
We thought nothing of it, and let them alone. But here, if a man is different in his feet or in his head, they put him in the asylum.
That is the way; they have built the asylum for people who are different, and they will not even let us live in the holes with the badgers.
Only your great prosperity has protected me so far.
If you had had ill-fortune, they would have taken me to Hastings long ago." As Ivar talked, his gloom lifted.
Alexandra had found that she could often break his fasts and long penances by talking to him and letting him pour out the thoughts that troubled him.
Sympathy always cleared his mind, and ridicule was poison to him. "There is a great deal in what you say, Ivar.
Like as not they will be wanting to take me to Hastings because I have built a silo; and then I may take you with me.
But at present I need you here.
Only don't come to me again telling me what people say.
Let people go on talking as they like, and we will go on living as we think best.
You have been with me now for twelve years, and I have gone to you for advice oftener than I have ever gone to any one.
That ought to satisfy you." Ivar bowed humbly.
Yes, mistress, I shall not trouble you with their talk again.
And as for my feet, I have observed your wishes all these years, though you have never questioned me; washing them every night, even in winter." Alexandra laughed.
Oh, never mind about your feet, Ivar.
We can remember when half our neighbors went barefoot in summer.
I expect old Mrs. Lee would love to slip her shoes off now sometimes, if she dared. I'm glad I'm not Lou's mother-in-law." Ivar looked about mysteriously and lowered his voice almost to a whisper.
You know what they have over at Lou's house?
A great white tub, like the stone water-troughs in the old country, to wash themselves in. When you sent me over with the strawberries, they were all in town but the old woman Lee and the baby.
She took me in and showed me the thing, and she told me it was impossible to wash yourself clean in it, because, in so much water, you could not make a strong suds.
So when they fill it up and send her in there, she pretends, and makes a splashing noise.
Then, when they are all asleep, she washes herself in a little wooden tub she keeps under her bed." Alexandra shook with laughter.
They won't let her wear nightcaps, either.
Never mind; when she comes to visit me, she can do all the old things in the old way, and have as much beer as she wants.
We'll start an asylum for old-time people, Ivar." Ivar folded his big handkerchief carefully and thrust it back into his blouse.
This is always the way, mistress.
I come to you sorrowing, and you send me away with a light heart.
And will you be so good as to tell the Irishman that he is not to work the brown gelding until the sore on its shoulder is healed?" "That I will.
Now go and put Emil's mare to the cart.
I am going to drive up to the north quarter to meet the man from town who is to buy my alfalfa hay." III Alexandra was to hear more of Ivar's case, however.
On Sunday her married brothers came to dinner.
The table was set for company in the dining-room, where highly varnished wood and colored glass and useless pieces of china were conspicuous enough to satisfy the standards of the new prosperity.
Alexandra had put herself into the hands of the Hanover furniture dealer, and he had conscientiously done his best to make her dining-room look like his display window.
She said frankly that she knew nothing about such things, and she was willing to be governed by the general conviction that the more useless and utterly unusable objects were, the greater their virtue as ornament.
Since she liked plain things herself, it was all the more necessary to have jars and punchbowls and candlesticks in the company rooms for people who did appreciate them.
Her guests liked to see about them these reassuring emblems of prosperity. The family party was complete except for Emil, and Oscar's wife who, in the country phrase, "was not going anywhere just now.
Oscar sat at the foot of the table and his four tow-headed little boys, aged from twelve to five, were ranged at one side.
Neither Oscar nor Lou has changed much; they have simply, as Alexandra said of them long ago, grown to be more and more like themselves.
Lou now looks the older of the two; his face is thin and shrewd and wrinkled about the eyes, while Oscar's is thick and dull.
For all his dullness, however, Oscar makes more money than his brother, which adds to Lou's sharpness and uneasiness and tempts him to make a show.
The trouble with Lou is that he is tricky, and his neighbors have found out that, as Ivar says, he has not a fox's face for nothing.
Politics being the natural field for such talents, he neglects his farm to attend conventions and to run for county offices. Lou's wife, formerly Annie Lee, has grown to look curiously like her husband.
Her face has become longer, sharper, more aggressive.
She wears her yellow hair in a high pompadour, and is bedecked with rings and chains and "beauty pins.
Her tight, high-heeled shoes give her an awkward walk, and she is always more or less preoccupied with her clothes.
As she sat at the table, she kept telling her youngest daughter to "be careful now, and not drop anything on mother." The conversation at the table was all in English.
Oscar's wife, from the malaria district of Missouri, was ashamed of marrying a foreigner, and his boys do not understand a word of Swedish.
He says Ivar's case is one of the most dangerous kind, and it's a wonder he hasn't done something violent before this." Alexandra laughed good-humoredly.
The doctors would have us all crazy if they could.
Ivar's queer, certainly, but he has more sense than half the hands I hire." Lou flew at his fried chicken.
Oh, I guess the doctor knows his business, Alexandra.
He was very much surprised when I told him how you'd put up with Ivar.
He says he's likely to set fire to the barn any night, or to take after you and the girls with an axe." Little Signa, who was waiting on the table, giggled and fled to the kitchen.
That was too much for Signa, Lou. We all know that Ivar's perfectly harmless.
The girls would as soon expect me to chase them with an axe." Lou flushed and signaled to his wife.
All the same, the neighbors will be having a say about it before long.
He may burn anybody's barn.
It's only necessary for one property-owner in the township to make complaint, and he'll be taken up by force.
You'd better send him yourself and not have any hard feelings." Alexandra helped one of her little nephews to gravy.
Well, Lou, if any of the neighbors try that, I'll have myself appointed Ivar's guardian and take the case to court, that's all.
I am perfectly satisfied with him." "Pass the preserves, Lou," said Annie in a warning tone.
She had reasons for not wishing her husband to cross Alexandra too openly.
But don't you sort of hate to have people see him around here, Alexandra?" she went on with persuasive smoothness.
He IS a disgraceful object, and you're fixed up so nice now.
It sort of makes people distant with you, when they never know when they'll hear him scratching about.
My girls are afraid as death of him, aren't you, Milly, dear?" Milly was fifteen, fat and jolly and pompadoured, with a creamy complexion, square white teeth, and a short upper lip.
She looked like her grandmother Bergson, and had her comfortable and comfort-loving nature.
She grinned at her aunt, with whom she was a great deal more at ease than she was with her mother.
Alexandra winked a reply. "Milly needn't be afraid of Ivar.
She's an especial favorite of his.
In my opinion Ivar has just as much right to his own way of dressing and thinking as we have.
But I'll see that he doesn't bother other people. I'll keep him at home, so don't trouble any more about him, Lou.
I've been wanting to ask you about your new bathtub.
How does it work?" Annie came to the fore to give Lou time to recover himself.
Oh, it works something grand!
I can't keep him out of it.
He washes himself all over three times a week now, and uses all the hot water.
I think it's weakening to stay in as long as he does.
You ought to have one, Alexandra." "I'm thinking of it.
I might have one put in the barn for Ivar, if it will ease people's minds.
But before I get a bathtub, I'm going to get a piano for Milly." Oscar, at the end of the table, looked up from his plate.
What does Milly want of a pianny?
What's the matter with her organ?
She can make some use of that, and play in church." Annie looked flustered.
She had begged Alexandra not to say anything about this plan before Oscar, who was apt to be jealous of what his sister did for Lou's children.
Alexandra did not get on with Oscar's wife at all.
Milly can play in church just the same, and she'll still play on the organ.
But practising on it so much spoils her touch.
Her teacher says so," Annie brought out with spirit. Oscar rolled his eyes.
Well, Milly must have got on pretty good if she's got past the organ.
I know plenty of grown folks that ain't," he said bluntly. Annie threw up her chin.
She has got on good, and she's going to play for her commencement when she graduates in town next year." "Yes," said Alexandra firmly, "I think Milly deserves a piano.
All the girls around here have been taking lessons for years, but Milly is the only one of them who can ever play anything when you ask her.
I'll tell you when I first thought I would like to give you a piano, Milly, and that was when you learned that book of old Swedish songs that your grandfather used to sing.
He had a sweet tenor voice, and when he was a young man he loved to sing.
She could always find out more about Alexandra's domestic economy from the prattling maids than from Alexandra herself, and what she discovered she used to her own advantage with Lou.
On the Divide, farmers' daughters no longer went out into service, so Alexandra got her girls from Sweden, by paying their fare over.
They stayed with her until they married, and were replaced by sisters or cousins from the old country. Alexandra took her three nieces into the flower garden.
A man got out and stood talking to the driver.
The little girls were delighted at the advent of a stranger, some one from very far away, they knew by his clothes, his gloves, and the sharp, pointed cut of his dark beard.
The girls fell behind their aunt and peeped out at him from among the castor beans. The stranger came up to the gate and stood holding his hat in his hand, smiling, while Alexandra advanced slowly to meet him.
As she approached he spoke in a low, pleasant voice. "Don't you know me, Alexandra?
I would have known you, anywhere." Alexandra shaded her eyes with her hand.
Suddenly she took a quick step forward.
Can it be!" she exclaimed with feeling; "can it be that it is Carl Linstrum?
She threw out both her hands and caught his across the gate.
Sadie, Milly, run tell your father and Uncle Oscar that our old friend Carl Linstrum is here.
Why, Carl, how did it happen?
Alexandra shook the tears from her eyes and laughed. The stranger nodded to his driver, dropped his suitcase inside the fence, and opened the gate.
Then you are glad to see me, and you can put me up overnight?
I couldn't go through this country without stopping off to have a look at you.
How little you have changed!
Do you know, I was sure it would be like that.
You simply couldn't be different.
He stepped back and looked at her admiringly. Alexandra blushed and laughed again.
But you yourself, Carl-with that beard-how could I have known you?
You went away a little boy.
She reached for his suitcase and when he intercepted her she threw up her hands.
You see, I give myself away.
I have only women come to visit me, and I do not know how to behave.
Where is your trunk?" "It's in Hanover.
I can stay only a few days.
I am on my way to the coast." They started up the path.
After all these years!" Alexandra shook her finger at him.
See this, you have walked into a trap.
You do not get away so easy.
She put her hand affectionately on his shoulder.
You owe me a visit for the sake of old times.
Why must you go to the coast at all?" "Oh, I must!
I am a fortune hunter.
From Seattle I go on to Alaska." "Alaska?
She looked at him in astonishment.
Are you going to paint the Indians?" "Paint?" the young man frowned.
I'm not a painter, Alexandra.
I have nothing to do with painting." "But on my parlor wall I have the paintings-" He interrupted nervously.
Oh, water-color sketches-done for amusement. I sent them to remind you of me, not because they were good.
What a wonderful place you have made of this, Alexandra.
He turned and looked back at the wide, map-like prospect of field and hedge and pasture.
I would never have believed it could be done.
I'm disappointed in my own eye, in my imagination." At this moment Lou and Oscar came up the hill from the orchard.
They did not quicken their pace when they saw Carl; indeed, they did not openly look in his direction.
They advanced distrustfully, and as if they wished the distance were longer. Alexandra beckoned to them.
They think I am trying to fool them.
Come, boys, it's Carl Linstrum, our old Carl!" Lou gave the visitor a quick, sidelong glance and thrust out his hand. "Glad to see you." Oscar followed with "How d' do.
Carl could not tell whether their offishness came from unfriendliness or from embarrassment.
He and Alexandra led the way to the porch. "Carl," Alexandra explained, "is on his way to Seattle.
He is going to Alaska." Oscar studied the visitor's yellow shoes.
Got business there?" he asked. Carl laughed.
I'm going there to get rich.
Engraving's a very interesting profession, but a man never makes any money at it.
So I'm going to try the goldfields." Alexandra felt that this was a tactful speech, and Lou looked up with some interest.
Ever done anything in that line before?" "No, but I'm going to join a friend of mine who went out from New York and has done well.
He has offered to break me in." "Turrible cold winters, there, I hear," remarked Oscar.
I thought people went up there in the spring." "They do.
But my friend is going to spend the winter in Seattle and I am to stay with him there and learn something about prospecting before we start north next year." Lou looked skeptical.
Let's see, how long have you been away from here?" "Sixteen years.
You ought to remember that, Lou, for you were married just after we went away." "Going to stay with us some time?
Oscar asked. "A few days, if Alexandra can keep me." "I expect you'll be wanting to see your old place," Lou observed more cordially.
You won't hardly know it.
But there's a few chunks of your old sod house left.
She was greatly impressed by Carl's urban appearance, and in her excitement talked very loud and threw her head about.
And you ain't married yet? At your age, now!
You'll have to wait for Milly.
Yes, we've got a boy, too.
He's at home with his grandma.
You must come over to see mother and hear Milly play.
She's the musician of the family.
That's burnt wood, you know.
You wouldn't believe what she can do with her poker.
Yes, she goes to school in town, and she is the youngest in her class by two years." Milly looked uncomfortable and Carl took her hand again.
He liked her creamy skin and happy, innocent eyes, and he could see that her mother's way of talking distressed her.
I'm sure she's a clever little girl," he murmured, looking at her thoughtfully.
Let me see-Ah, it's your mother that she looks like, Alexandra.
Mrs. Bergson must have looked just like this when she was a little girl.
Does Milly run about over the country as you and Alexandra used to, Annie?" Milly's mother protested.
Things has changed since we was girls.
Milly has it very different.
We are going to rent the place and move into town as soon as the girls are old enough to go out into company.
A good many are doing that here now.
Lou is going into business." Lou grinned.
You better go get your things on. Ivar's hitching up," he added, turning to Annie. Young farmers seldom address their wives by name.
It is always "you," or "she." Having got his wife out of the way, Lou sat down on the step and began to whittle.
Well, what do folks in New York think of William Jennings Bryan?
Lou began to bluster, as he always did when he talked politics. "We gave Wall Street a scare in ninety-six, all right, and we're fixing another to hand them.
Silver wasn't the only issue," he nodded mysteriously.
There's a good many things got to be changed.
The West is going to make itself heard." Carl laughed.
But, surely, it did do that, if nothing else." Lou's thin face reddened up to the roots of his bristly hair.
We're waking up to a sense of our responsibilities, out here, and we ain't afraid, neither.
You fellows back there must be a tame lot.
If you had any nerve you'd get together and march down to Wall Street and blow it up.
Dynamite it, I mean," with a threatening nod. He was so much in earnest that Carl scarcely knew how to answer him. "That would be a waste of powder.
The same business would go on in another street.
But what have you fellows out here got to kick about?
You have the only safe place there is. Morgan himself couldn't touch you.
One only has to drive through this country to see that you're all as rich as barons." "We have a good deal more to say than we had when we were poor," said Lou threateningly.
We're getting on to a whole lot of things." As Ivar drove a double carriage up to the gate, Annie came out in a hat that looked like the model of a battleship.
Carl rose and took her down to the carriage, while Lou lingered for a word with his sister. "What do you suppose he's come for?" he asked, jerking his head toward the gate. "Why, to pay us a visit.
I've been begging him to for years." Oscar looked at Alexandra.
He didn't let you know he was coming?" "No. Why should he?
I told him to come at any time." Lou shrugged his shoulders.
He doesn't seem to have done much for himself.
Wandering around this way!" Oscar spoke solemnly, as from the depths of a cavern.
He never was much account." Alexandra left them and hurried down to the gate where Annie was rattling on to Carl about her new dining-room furniture.
You must bring Mr. Linstrum over real soon, only be sure to telephone me first," she called back, as Carl helped her into the carriage.
Old Ivar, his white head bare, stood holding the horses.
Lou came down the path and climbed into the front seat, took up the reins, and drove off without saying anything further to any one.
Oscar picked up his youngest boy and trudged off down the road, the other three trotting after him. Carl, holding the gate open for Alexandra, began to laugh.
Up and coming on the Divide, eh, Alexandra?" he cried gayly. IV Carl had changed, Alexandra felt, much less than one might have expected.
He had not become a trim, self-satisfied city man.
There was still something homely and wayward and definitely personal about him. Even his clothes, his Norfolk coat and his very high collars, were a little unconventional.
He seemed to shrink into himself as he used to do; to hold himself away from things, as if he were afraid of being hurt.
In short, he was more self-conscious than a man of thirty-five is expected to be.
He looked older than his years and not very strong.
His black hair, which still hung in a triangle over his pale forehead, was thin at the crown, and there were fine, relentless lines about his eyes.
His back, with its high, sharp shoulders, looked like the back of an over-worked German professor off on his holiday.
His face was intelligent, sensitive, unhappy. That evening after supper, Carl and Alexandra were sitting by the clump of castor beans in the middle of the flower garden.
The gravel paths glittered in the moonlight, and below them the fields lay white and still. "Do you know, Alexandra," he was saying, "I've been thinking how strangely things work out.
I've been away engraving other men's pictures, and you've stayed at home and made your own.
He pointed with his cigar toward the sleeping landscape.
How in the world have you done it?
How have your neighbors done it?" "We hadn't any of us much to do with it, Carl.
It had its little joke.
It pretended to be poor because nobody knew how to work it right; and then, all at once, it worked itself.
It woke up out of its sleep and stretched itself, and it was so big, so rich, that we suddenly found we were rich, just from sitting still.
As for me, you remember when I began to buy land.
For years after that I was always squeezing and borrowing until I was ashamed to show my face in the banks.
And then, all at once, men began to come to me offering to lend me money-and I didn't need it!
Then I went ahead and built this house. I really built it for Emil.
I want you to see Emil, Carl.
He is so different from the rest of us!" "How different?" "Oh, you'll see!
I'm sure it was to have sons like Emil, and to give them a chance, that father left the old country.
It's curious, too; on the outside Emil is just like an American boy,-he graduated from the State University in June, you know,-but underneath he is more Swedish than any of us.
Sometimes he is so like father that he frightens me; he is so violent in his feelings like that." "Is he going to farm here with you?" "He shall do whatever he wants to," Alexandra declared warmly.
He is going to have a chance, a whole chance; that's what I've worked for. Sometimes he talks about studying law, and sometimes, just lately, he's been talking about going out into the sand hills and taking up more land.
He has his sad times, like father.
But I hope he won't do that. We have land enough, at last!
Alexandra laughed. "How about Lou and Oscar?
They've done well, haven't they?" "Yes, very well; but they are different, and now that they have farms of their own I do not see so much of them.
We divided the land equally when Lou married.
They have their own way of doing things, and they do not altogether like my way, I am afraid.
Perhaps they think me too independent.
But I have had to think for myself a good many years and am not likely to change.
On the whole, though, we take as much comfort in each other as most brothers and sisters do.
And I am very fond of Lou's oldest daughter." "I think I liked the old Lou and Oscar better, and they probably feel the same about me.
I even, if you can keep a secret,"-Carl leaned forward and touched her arm, smiling,-"I even think I liked the old country better.
This is all very splendid in its way, but there was something about this country when it was a wild old beast that has haunted me all these years.
Alexandra paused and looked up thoughtfully at the stars.
We can remember the graveyard when it was wild prairie, Carl, and now-" "And now the old story has begun to write itself over there," said Carl softly.
The young people, they live so hard.
And yet I sometimes envy them.
There is my little neighbor, now; the people who bought your old place.
I wouldn't have sold it to any one else, but I was always fond of that girl.
You must remember her, little Marie Tovesky, from Omaha, who used to visit here?
When she was eighteen she ran away from the convent school and got married, crazy child!
She came out here a bride, with her father and husband.
He had nothing, and the old man was willing to buy them a place and set them up.
Your farm took her fancy, and I was glad to have her so near me.
I've never been sorry, either.
I even try to get along with Frank on her account." "Is Frank her husband?" "Yes.
He's one of these wild fellows.
Most Bohemians are good-natured, but Frank thinks we don't appreciate him here, I guess.
He's jealous about everything, his farm and his horses and his pretty wife. Everybody likes her, just the same as when she was little.
Frank's not a bad neighbor, but to get on with him you've got to make a fuss over him and act as if you thought he was a very important person all the time, and different from other people.
I find it hard to keep that up from one year's end to another." "I shouldn't think you'd be very successful at that kind of thing, Alexandra.
Carl seemed to find the idea amusing. "Well," said Alexandra firmly, "I do the best I can, on Marie's account.
She has it hard enough, anyway.
She's too young and pretty for this sort of life.
We're all ever so much older and slower.
But she's the kind that won't be downed easily.
She'll work all day and go to a Bohemian wedding and dance all night, and drive the hay wagon for a cross man next morning.
I could stay by a job, but I never had the go in me that she has, when I was going my best.
I'll have to take you over to see her to-morrow." Carl dropped the end of his cigar softly among the castor beans and sighed.
Yes, I suppose I must see the old place.
I'm cowardly about things that remind me of myself.
It took courage to come at all, Alexandra.
I wouldn't have, if I hadn't wanted to see you very, very much." Alexandra looked at him with her calm, deliberate eyes.
Why do you dread things like that, Carl?" she asked earnestly.
Why are you dissatisfied with yourself?" Her visitor winced.
How direct you are, Alexandra!
Just like you used to be.
Do I give myself away so quickly?
Well, you see, for one thing, there's nothing to look forward to in my profession.
Wood-engraving is the only thing I care about, and that had gone out before I began. Everything's cheap metal work nowadays, touching up miserable photographs, forcing up poor drawings, and spoiling good ones.
I'm absolutely sick of it all.
Alexandra, all the way out from New York I've been planning how I could deceive you and make you think me a very enviable fellow, and here I am telling you the truth the first night.
I waste a lot of time pretending to people, and the joke of it is, I don't think I ever deceive any one.
There are too many of my kind; people know us on sight." Carl paused.
Alexandra pushed her hair back from her brow with a puzzled, thoughtful gesture.
You see," he went on calmly, "measured by your standards here, I'm a failure.
I couldn't buy even one of your cornfields.
I've enjoyed a great many things, but I've got nothing to show for it all." "But you show for it yourself, Carl.
I'd rather have had your freedom than my land." Carl shook his head mournfully.
Freedom so often means that one isn't needed anywhere.
Here you are an individual, you have a background of your own, you would be missed.
But off there in the cities there are thousands of rolling stones like me.
We are all alike; we have no ties, we know nobody, we own nothing.
When one of us dies, they scarcely know where to bury him.
We have no house, no place, no people of our own.
We live in the streets, in the parks, in the theatres.
We sit in restaurants and concert halls and look about at the hundreds of our own kind and shudder." Alexandra was silent.
She sat looking at the silver spot the moon made on the surface of the pond down in the pasture.
He knew that she understood what he meant.
At last she said slowly, "And yet I would rather have Emil grow up like that than like his two brothers.
We pay a high rent, too, though we pay differently.
We grow hard and heavy here. We don't move lightly and easily as you do, and our minds get stiff.
If the world were no wider than my cornfields, if there were not something beside this, I wouldn't feel that it was much worth while to work.
No, I would rather have Emil like you than like them.
I felt that as soon as you came." "I wonder why you feel like that?
Carl mused. "I don't know.
Perhaps I am like Carrie Jensen, the sister of one of my hired men.
She had never been out of the cornfields, and a few years ago she got despondent and said life was just the same thing over and over, and she didn't see the use of it.
After she had tried to kill herself once or twice, her folks got worried and sent her over to Iowa to visit some relations.
Ever since she's come back she's been perfectly cheerful, and she says she's contented to live and work in a world that's so big and interesting.
She said that anything as big as the bridges over the Platte and the Missouri reconciled her.
And it's what goes on in the world that reconciles me." V Alexandra did not find time to go to her neighbor's the next day, nor the next.
It was a busy season on the farm, with the corn-plowing going on, and even Emil was in the field with a team and cultivator.
Carl went about over the farms with Alexandra in the morning, and in the afternoon and evening they found a great deal to talk about.
The color was reflected in the globules of dew that sheathed the short gray pasture grass.
Carl walked rapidly until he came to the crest of the second hill, where the Bergson pasture joined the one that had belonged to his father.
There he sat down and waited for the sun to rise.
It was just there that he and Alexandra used to do their milking together, he on his side of the fence, she on hers.
He could remember exactly how she looked when she came over the close-cropped grass, her skirts pinned up, her head bare, a bright tin pail in either hand, and the milky light of the early morning all about her.
Birds and insects without number began to chirp, to twitter, to snap and whistle, to make all manner of fresh shrill noises.
He had not gone far, however, when he discovered that he was not the only person abroad.
In the draw below, his gun in his hands, was Emil, advancing cautiously, with a young woman beside him.
There was a sharp crack from the gun, and five of the birds fell to the ground. Emil and his companion laughed delightedly, and Emil ran to pick them up.
When he came back, dangling the ducks by their feet, Marie held her apron and he dropped them into it.
As she stood looking down at them, her face changed.
Why, Marie, you asked me to come yourself." "Yes, yes, I know," she said tearfully, "but I didn't think.
I hate to see them when they are first shot.
They were having such a good time, and we've spoiled it all for them." Emil gave a rather sore laugh.
I should say we had!
I'm not going hunting with you any more.
You're as bad as Ivar.
Here, let me take them.
He snatched the ducks out of her apron. "Don't be cross, Emil.
Only-Ivar's right about wild things.
They're too happy to kill.
You can tell just how they felt when they flew up.
They were scared, but they didn't really think anything could hurt them.
No, we won't do that any more." "All right," Emil assented.
I'm sorry I made you feel bad.
As he looked down into her tearful eyes, there was a curious, sharp young bitterness in his own. Carl watched them as they moved slowly down the draw.
They had not seen him at all.
He had not overheard much of their dialogue, but he felt the import of it.
It made him, somehow, unreasonably mournful to find two young things abroad in the pasture in the early morning.
He decided that he needed his breakfast. VI At dinner that day Alexandra said she thought they must really manage to go over to the Shabatas' that afternoon.
It's not often I let three days go by without seeing Marie.
You see we have kept up the old path, Carl.
It has been so nice for me to feel that there was a friend at the other end of it again." Carl smiled a little ruefully.
All the same, I hope it hasn't been _quite_ the same." Alexandra looked at him with surprise.
Why, no, of course not.
She could not very well take your place, if that's what you mean. I'm friendly with all my neighbors, I hope.
But Marie is really a companion, some one I can talk to quite frankly.
You wouldn't want me to be more lonely than I have been, would you?" Carl laughed and pushed back the triangular lock of hair with the edge of his hat.
I ought to be thankful that this path hasn't been worn by-well, by friends with more pressing errands than your little Bohemian is likely to have.
He paused to give Alexandra his hand as she stepped over the stile.
Are you the least bit disappointed in our coming together again?" he asked abruptly.
Is it the way you hoped it would be?" Alexandra smiled at this.
When I've thought about your coming, I've sometimes been a little afraid of it.
You have lived where things move so fast, and everything is slow here; the people slowest of all.
Our lives are like the years, all made up of weather and crops and cows.
She shook her head and laughed to herself. "I didn't when we milked together.
I walked up to the pasture corners this morning.
I wonder whether I shall ever be able to tell you all that I was thinking about up there.
It's a strange thing, Alexandra; I find it easy to be frank with you about everything under the sun except-yourself!" "You are afraid of hurting my feelings, perhaps.
Alexandra looked at him thoughtfully. "No, I'm afraid of giving you a shock.
You've seen yourself for so long in the dull minds of the people about you, that if I were to tell you how you seem to me, it would startle you.
But you must see that you astonish me.
You must feel when people admire you." Alexandra blushed and laughed with some confusion.
I felt that you were pleased with me, if you mean that." "And you've felt when other people were pleased with you?" he insisted. "Well, sometimes.
The men in town, at the banks and the county offices, seem glad to see me.
She often sits there and sews.
I didn't telephone her we were coming, because I didn't want her to go to work and bake cake and freeze ice-cream.
She'll always make a party if you give her the least excuse.
Do you recognize the apple trees, Carl?" Linstrum looked about him.
I wish I had a dollar for every bucket of water I've carried for those trees.
Poor father, he was an easy man, but he was perfectly merciless when it came to watering the orchard." "That's one thing I like about Germans; they make an orchard grow if they can't make anything else.
I'm so glad these trees belong to some one who takes comfort in them.
When I rented this place, the tenants never kept the orchard up, and Emil and I used to come over and take care of it ourselves.
There she is, down in the corner.
Maria-a-a!" she called. A recumbent figure started up from the grass and came running toward them through the flickering screen of light and shade. "Look at her!
Isn't she like a little brown rabbit?
Alexandra laughed. Maria ran up panting and threw her arms about Alexandra.
Oh, I had begun to think you were not coming at all, maybe.
I knew you were so busy.
Yes, Emil told me about Mr. Linstrum being here.
Won't you come up to the house?" "Why not sit down there in your corner?
Carl wants to see the orchard. He kept all these trees alive for years, watering them with his own back." Marie turned to Carl.
Then I'm thankful to you, Mr. Linstrum.
We'd never have bought the place if it hadn't been for this orchard, and then I wouldn't have had Alexandra, either.
She gave Alexandra's arm a little squeeze as she walked beside her.
In this corner the ground dipped a little, and the blue-grass, which the weeds had driven out in the upper part of the orchard, grew thick and luxuriant.
Wild roses were flaming in the tufts of bunchgrass along the fence.
Under a white mulberry tree there was an old wagon-seat.
Beside it lay a book and a workbasket. "You must have the seat, Alexandra.
The grass would stain your dress," the hostess insisted.
She dropped down on the ground at Alexandra's side and tucked her feet under her.
Carl sat at a little distance from the two women, his back to the wheatfield, and watched them.
Alexandra took off her shade-hat and threw it on the ground.
Marie picked it up and played with the white ribbons, twisting them about her brown fingers as she talked.
Carl had never forgotten little Marie Tovesky's eyes, and he was glad to have an opportunity to study them.
The brown iris, he found, was curiously slashed with yellow, the color of sunflower honey, or of old amber.
In each eye one of these streaks must have been larger than the others, for the effect was that of two dancing points of light, two little yellow bubbles, such as rise in a glass of champagne.
Sometimes they seemed like the sparks from a forge.
She seemed so easily excited, to kindle with a fierce little flame if one but breathed upon her.
What a waste," Carl reflected.
She ought to be doing all that for a sweetheart.
How awkwardly things come about!" It was not very long before Marie sprang up out of the grass again. "Wait a moment.
I want to show you something.
She ran away and disappeared behind the low-growing apple trees. "What a charming creature," Carl murmured.
I don't wonder that her husband is jealous.
But can't she walk? does she always run?" Alexandra nodded.
I don't see many people, but I don't believe there are many like her, anywhere." Marie came back with a branch she had broken from an apricot tree, laden with pale yellow, pink-cheeked fruit.
She dropped it beside Carl. "Did you plant those, too?
They are such beautiful little trees." Carl fingered the blue-green leaves, porous like blotting-paper and shaped like birch leaves, hung on waxen red stems.
Yes, I think I did. Are these the circus trees, Alexandra?" "Shall I tell her about them?
Sit down like a good girl, Marie, and don't ruin my poor hat, and I'll tell you a story.
A long time ago, when Carl and I were, say, sixteen and twelve, a circus came to Hanover and we went to town in our wagon, with Lou and Oscar, to see the parade.
We hadn't money enough to go to the circus.
We followed the parade out to the circus grounds and hung around until the show began and the crowd went inside the tent.
Then Lou was afraid we looked foolish standing outside in the pasture, so we went back to Hanover feeling very sad.
There was a man in the streets selling apricots, and we had never seen any before.
He had driven down from somewhere up in the French country, and he was selling them twenty-five cents a peck.
We had a little money our fathers had given us for candy, and I bought two pecks and Carl bought one.
They cheered us a good deal, and we saved all the seeds and planted them.
Up to the time Carl went away, they hadn't borne at all." "And now he's come back to eat them," cried Marie, nodding at Carl. "That IS a good story.
I can remember you a little, Mr. Linstrum.
I used to see you in Hanover sometimes, when Uncle Joe took me to town.
I remember you because you were always buying pencils and tubes of paint at the drug store.
Once, when my uncle left me at the store, you drew a lot of little birds and flowers for me on a piece of wrapping-paper.
I kept them for a long while.
I thought you were very romantic because you could draw and had such black eyes." Carl smiled.
Yes, I remember that time.
Your uncle bought you some kind of a mechanical toy, a Turkish lady sitting on an ottoman and smoking a hookah, wasn't it?
And she turned her head backwards and forwards." "Oh, yes!
I knew well enough I ought not to tell Uncle Joe I wanted it, for he had just come back from the saloon and was feeling good.
You remember how he laughed?
She tickled him, too. But when we got home, my aunt scolded him for buying toys when she needed so many things.
We wound our lady up every night, and when she began to move her head my aunt used to laugh as hard as any of us.
It was a music-box, you know, and the Turkish lady played a tune while she smoked.
That was how she made you feel so jolly.
He was breathing hard, as if he had been running, and was muttering to himself. Marie ran forward, and, taking him by the arm, gave him a little push toward her guests.
Frank, this is Mr. Linstrum." Frank took off his broad straw hat and nodded to Alexandra.
When he spoke to Carl, he showed a fine set of white teeth.
He was burned a dull red down to his neckband, and there was a heavy three-days' stubble on his face.
I go to take dat old woman to de court if she ain't careful, I tell you!" His wife spoke soothingly.
But, Frank, she has only her lame boy to help her.
She does the best she can." Alexandra looked at the excited man and offered a suggestion.
Why don't you go over there some afternoon and hog-tight her fences?
You'd save time for yourself in the end." Frank's neck stiffened.
I keep my hogs home. Other peoples can do like me.
If that Louis can mend shoes, he can mend fence." "Maybe," said Alexandra placidly; "but I've found it sometimes pays to mend other people's fences.
Come to see me soon." Alexandra walked firmly down the path and Carl followed her. Frank went into the house and threw himself on the sofa, his face to the wall, his clenched fist on his hip.
Marie, having seen her guests off, came in and put her hand coaxingly on his shoulder. "Poor Frank!
You've run until you've made your head ache, now haven't you?
Let me make you some coffee." "What else am I to do?" he cried hotly in Bohemian.
Am I to let any old woman's hogs root up my wheat?
Is that what I work myself to death for?" "Don't worry about it, Frank.
I'll speak to Mrs. Hiller again.
But, really, she almost cried last time they got out, she was so sorry." Frank bounced over on his other side.
That's it; you always side with them against me.
Anybody here feels free to borrow the mower and break it, or turn their hogs in on me.
They know you won't care!" Marie hurried away to make his coffee.
When she came back, he was fast asleep.
She sat down and looked at him for a long while, very thoughtfully.
When the kitchen clock struck six she went out to get supper, closing the door gently behind her.
She was always sorry for Frank when he worked himself into one of these rages, and she was sorry to have him rough and quarrelsome with his neighbors.
He settled in Omaha and became a leader and adviser among his people there.
Marie was his youngest child, by a second wife, and was the apple of his eye.
She was barely sixteen, and was in the graduating class of the Omaha High School, when Frank Shabata arrived from the old country and set all the Bohemian girls in a flutter.
He was easily the buck of the beer-gardens, and on Sunday he was a sight to see, with his silk hat and tucked shirt and blue frock-coat, wearing gloves and carrying a little wisp of a yellow cane.
He was tall and fair, with splendid teeth and close-cropped yellow curls, and he wore a slightly disdainful expression, proper for a young man with high connections, whose mother had a big farm in the Elbe valley.
There was often an interesting discontent in his blue eyes, and every Bohemian girl he met imagined herself the cause of that unsatisfied expression.
He had a way of drawing out his cambric handkerchief slowly, by one corner, from his breast-pocket, that was melancholy and romantic in the extreme.
When she got home that evening she went straight to her father's room and told him that she was engaged to Shabata.
Old Tovesky was having a comfortable pipe before he went to bed.
When he heard his daughter's announcement, he first prudently corked his beer bottle and then leaped to his feet and had a turn of temper.
He characterized Frank Shabata by a Bohemian expression which is the equivalent of stuffed shirt. "Why don't he go to work like the rest of us did?
His farm in the Elbe valley, indeed!
Ain't he got plenty brothers and sisters?
It's his mother's farm, and why don't he stay at home and help her?
Haven't I seen his mother out in the morning at five o'clock with her ladle and her big bucket on wheels, putting liquid manure on the cabbages?
Don't I know the look of old Eva Shabata's hands?
Like an old horse's hoofs they are-and this fellow wearing gloves and rings!
But the way to make Frank want anything was to tell him he couldn't have it.
He managed to have an interview with Marie before she went away, and whereas he had been only half in love with her before, he now persuaded himself that he would not stop at anything.
Marie took with her to the convent, under the canvas lining of her trunk, the results of a laborious and satisfying morning on Frank's part; no less than a dozen photographs of himself, taken in a dozen different love-lorn attitudes.
There was a little round photograph for her watch-case, photographs for her wall and dresser, and even long narrow ones to be used as bookmarks.
More than once the handsome gentleman was torn to pieces before the French class by an indignant nun. Marie pined in the convent for a year, until her eighteenth birthday was passed.
Then she met Frank Shabata in the Union Station in St. Louis and ran away with him.
Old Tovesky forgave his daughter because there was nothing else to do, and bought her a farm in the country that she had loved so well as a child.
Since then her story had been a part of the history of the Divide.
She and Frank had been living there for five years when Carl Linstrum came back to pay his long deferred visit to Alexandra.
Frank had, on the whole, done better than one might have expected.
He had flung himself at the soil with savage energy.
Once a year he went to Hastings or to Omaha, on a spree.
He stayed away for a week or two, and then came home and worked like a demon.
One of the Goulds was getting a divorce, and Frank took it as a personal affront.
In printing the story of the young man's marital troubles, the knowing editor gave a sufficiently colored account of his career, stating the amount of his income and the manner in which he was supposed to spend it.
Frank read English slowly, and the more he read about this divorce case, the angrier he grew.
At last he threw down the page with a snort.
He turned to his farm-hand who was reading the other half of the paper. "By God! if I have that young feller in de hayfield once, I show him someting.
Listen here what he do wit his money.
And Frank began the catalogue of the young man's reputed extravagances. Marie sighed.
She thought it hard that the Goulds, for whom she had nothing but good will, should make her so much trouble.
She hated to see the Sunday newspapers come into the house.
Frank was always reading about the doings of rich people and feeling outraged.
He had an inexhaustible stock of stories about their crimes and follies, how they bribed the courts and shot down their butlers with impunity whenever they chose.
After he was gone, Marie went out to the back porch to begin her butter-making.
A brisk wind had come up and was driving puffy white clouds across the sky.
She ran into the house, put on a short skirt and a pair of her husband's boots, caught up a tin pail and started for the orchard.
Emil had already begun work and was mowing vigorously.
When he saw her coming, he stopped and wiped his brow.
His yellow canvas leggings and khaki trousers were splashed to the knees. "Don't let me disturb you, Emil.
I'm going to pick cherries.
Isn't everything beautiful after the rain?
Oh, but I'm glad to get this place mowed!
When I heard it raining in the night, I thought maybe you would come and do it for me to-day.
Just smell the wild roses!
They are always so spicy after a rain.
We never had so many of them in here before.
I suppose it's the wet season.
Will you have to cut them, too?" "If I cut the grass, I will," Emil said teasingly.
What makes you so flighty?" "Am I flighty?
I suppose that's the wet season, too, then.
It's exciting to see everything growing so fast,-and to get the grass cut! Please leave the roses till last, if you must cut them.
Oh, I don't mean all of them, I mean that low place down by my tree, where there are so many.
Look at the spider-webs all over the grass.
I'll call you if I see a snake." She tripped away and Emil stood looking after her.
In a few moments he heard the cherries dropping smartly into the pail, and he began to swing his scythe with that long, even stroke that few American boys ever learn.
Marie picked cherries and sang softly to herself, stripping one glittering branch after another, shivering when she caught a shower of raindrops on her neck and hair.
All sorts of weeds and herbs and flowers had grown up there; splotches of wild larkspur, pale green-and-white spikes of hoarhound, plantations of wild cotton, tangles of foxtail and wild wheat.
South of the apricot trees, cornering on the wheatfield, was Frank's alfalfa, where myriads of white and yellow butterflies were always fluttering above the purple blossoms.
About like the Germans', wasn't it?" Marie went on as if she had not heard him.
The Bohemians, you know, were tree worshipers before the missionaries came.
Father says the people in the mountains still do queer things, sometimes,-they believe that trees bring good or bad luck." Emil looked superior.
Well, which are the lucky trees?
I'd like to know." "I don't know all of them, but I know lindens are.
The old people in the mountains plant lindens to purify the forest, and to do away with the spells that come from the old trees they say have lasted from heathen times.
I'm a good Catholic, but I think I could get along with caring for trees, if I hadn't anything else." "That's a poor saying," said Emil, stooping over to wipe his hands in the wet grass. "Why is it?
If I feel that way, I feel that way.
I like trees because they seem more resigned to the way they have to live than other things do.
I feel as if this tree knows everything I ever think of when I sit here.
When I come back to it, I never have to remind it of anything; I begin just where I left off." Emil had nothing to say to this.
He reached up among the branches and began to pick the sweet, insipid fruit,-long ivory-colored berries, tipped with faint pink, like white coral, that fall to the ground unheeded all summer through.
He dropped a handful into her lap. "Do you like Mr. Linstrum?
Don't you?" "Oh, ever so much; only he seems kind of staid and school-teachery. But, of course, he is older than Frank, even.
I'm sure I don't want to live to be more than thirty, do you?
Do you think Alexandra likes him very much?" "I suppose so.
They were old friends." "Oh, Emil, you know what I mean!
Marie tossed her head impatiently. "Does she really care about him?
When she used to tell me about him, I always wondered whether she wasn't a little in love with him." "Who, Alexandra?
Emil laughed and thrust his hands into his trousers pockets.
Alexandra's never been in love, you crazy!
He laughed again. "She wouldn't know how to go about it.
The idea!" Marie shrugged her shoulders.
Oh, you don't know Alexandra as well as you think you do!
If you had any eyes, you would see that she is very fond of him.
It would serve you all right if she walked off with Carl. I like him because he appreciates her more than you do." Emil frowned.
What are you talking about, Marie?
She and I have always been good friends.
What more do you want? I like to talk to Carl about New York and what a fellow can do there." "Oh, Emil!
Surely you are not thinking of going off there?" "Why not?
I must go somewhere, mustn't I?
The young man took up his scythe and leaned on it.
Would you rather I went off in the sand hills and lived like Ivar?" Marie's face fell under his brooding gaze.
She looked down at his wet leggings.
I'm sure Alexandra hopes you will stay on here," she murmured. "Then Alexandra will be disappointed," the young man said roughly. "What do I want to hang around here for?
Alexandra can run the farm all right, without me.
I don't want to stand around and look on.
I want to be doing something on my own account." "That's so," Marie sighed.
There are so many, many things you can do. Almost anything you choose." "And there are so many, many things I can't do.
Emil echoed her tone sarcastically.
Sometimes I don't want to do anything at all, and sometimes I want to pull the four corners of the Divide together,"-he threw out his arm and brought it back with a jerk,-"so, like a table-cloth.
I get tired of seeing men and horses going up and down, up and down." Marie looked up at his defiant figure and her face clouded.
I wish you weren't so restless, and didn't get so worked up over things," she said sadly. "Thank you," he returned shortly. She sighed despondently.
Everything I say makes you cross, don't it? And you never used to be cross to me." Emil took a step nearer and stood frowning down at her bent head.
He stood in an attitude of self-defense, his feet well apart, his hands clenched and drawn up at his sides, so that the cords stood out on his bare arms.
I can't play with you like a little boy any more," he said slowly.
That's what you miss, Marie.
You'll have to get some other little boy to play with.
He stopped and took a deep breath.
Then he went on in a low tone, so intense that it was almost threatening: "Sometimes you seem to understand perfectly, and then sometimes you pretend you don't.
You don't help things any by pretending.
It's then that I want to pull the corners of the Divide together.
If you WON'T understand, you know, I could make you!" Marie clasped her hands and started up from her seat.
She had grown very pale and her eyes were shining with excitement and distress.
But, Emil, if I understand, then all our good times are over, we can never do nice things together any more.
We shall have to behave like Mr. Linstrum.
And, anyhow, there's nothing to understand!
She struck the ground with her little foot fiercely.
It will go away, and things will be just as they used to.
I wish you were a Catholic.
The Church helps people, indeed it does.
Oh, Emil, you won't try!
Then all our good times are over." "Yes; over.
I never expect to have any more." Emil gripped the hand-holds of his scythe and began to mow.
Marie took up her cherries and went slowly toward the house, crying bitterly. IX On Sunday afternoon, a month after Carl Linstrum's arrival, he rode with Emil up into the French country to attend a Catholic fair.
A married man don't lose his head no more.
He slapped Emil on the back as he caught step with him.
Oh, Emil, you wanna get married right off quick!
It's the greatest thing ever!" Emil laughed.
There are plenty girls will have you.
You wanna get some nice French girl, now.
She treat you well; always be jolly.
Why don't you get after them?
Are you stuck up, Emil, or is anything the matter with you?
I never did know a boy twenty-two years old before that didn't have no girl.
You wanna be a priest, maybe?
I bring many good Catholics into this world, I hope, and that's a way I help the Church." Emil looked down and patted him on the shoulder.
Bah!" he exclaimed in disgust.
I tell all the French girls to keep 'way from you.
They belted themselves up, and Raoul Marcel, the choir tenor and Father Duchesne's pet, and Jean Bordelau, held the string over which they vaulted.
And anyhow, he is much more graceful.
He goes over like a bird, and you have to hump yourself all up." "Oh, I do, do I?
I could run away with you right now and he could only sit down and cry about it.
I'll show you whether I have to hump myself!
Not until he saw Marie Shabata's tiger eyes flashing from the gloom of the basement doorway did he hand the disheveled bride over to her husband.
He was delighted with his friend's good fortune.
On Sundays and holidays they were always arm in arm.
It was like that when Alexandra tested her seed-corn in the spring, he mused.
They had seemed to avoid her ever since Carl Linstrum's arrival, four weeks ago that day, and she hurried to the door to welcome them.
She saw at once that they had come with some very definite purpose.
They followed her stiffly into the sitting-room. Oscar sat down, but Lou walked over to the window and remained standing, his hands behind him. "You are by yourself?" he asked, looking toward the doorway into the parlor. "Yes.
Carl and Emil went up to the Catholic fair." For a few moments neither of the men spoke. Then Lou came out sharply.
How soon does he intend to go away from here?" "I don't know, Lou.
Not for some time, I hope.
Alexandra spoke in an even, quiet tone that often exasperated her brothers.
They felt that she was trying to be superior with them. Oscar spoke up grimly.
We thought we ought to tell you that people have begun to talk," he said meaningly. Alexandra looked at him.
What about?" Oscar met her eyes blankly.
About you, keeping him here so long.
It looks bad for him to be hanging on to a woman this way.
People think you're getting taken in." Alexandra shut her account-book firmly.
Boys," she said seriously, "don't let's go on with this.
We won't come out anywhere.
I can't take advice on such a matter.
I know you mean well, but you must not feel responsible for me in things of this sort.
If we go on with this talk it will only make hard feeling." Lou whipped about from the window.
You ought to think a little about your family.
You're making us all ridiculous." "How am I?" "People are beginning to say you want to marry the fellow." "Well, and what is ridiculous about that?" Lou and Oscar exchanged outraged looks.
Can't you see he's just a tramp and he's after your money?
He wants to be taken care of, he does!" "Well, suppose I want to take care of him?
Whose business is it but my own?" "Don't you know he'd get hold of your property?" "He'd get hold of what I wished to give him, certainly." Oscar sat up suddenly and Lou clutched at his bristly hair. "Give him?
Our property, our homestead?" "I don't know about the homestead," said Alexandra quietly.
I know you and Oscar have always expected that it would be left to your children, and I'm not sure but what you're right.
But I'll do exactly as I please with the rest of my land, boys." "The rest of your land!" cried Lou, growing more excited every minute. "Didn't all the land come out of the homestead?
It was bought with money borrowed on the homestead, and Oscar and me worked ourselves to the bone paying interest on it." "Yes, you paid the interest.
But when you married we made a division of the land, and you were satisfied.
I've made more on my farms since I've been alone than when we all worked together." "Everything you've made has come out of the original land that us boys worked for, hasn't it?
The farms and all that comes out of them belongs to us as a family." Alexandra waved her hand impatiently.
Go to the county clerk and ask him who owns my land, and whether my titles are good." Lou turned to his brother.
This is what comes of letting a woman meddle in business," he said bitterly.
We ought to have taken things in our own hands years ago.
But she liked to run things, and we humored her.
We thought you had good sense, Alexandra.
We never thought you'd do anything foolish." Alexandra rapped impatiently on her desk with her knuckles.
You say you ought to have taken things into your own hands years ago.
I suppose you mean before you left home.
But how could you take hold of what wasn't there?
I've got most of what I have now since we divided the property; I've built it up myself, and it has nothing to do with you." Oscar spoke up solemnly.
The property of a family really belongs to the men of the family, no matter about the title.
If anything goes wrong, it's the men that are held responsible." "Yes, of course," Lou broke in. "Everybody knows that.
Oscar and me have always been easy-going and we've never made any fuss.
We were willing you should hold the land and have the good of it, but you got no right to part with any of it.
Oh, now, Alexandra, you always took it pretty easy!
Of course we wanted you to.
You liked to manage round, and we always humored you.
We realize you were a great deal of help to us. There's no woman anywhere around that knows as much about business as you do, and we've always been proud of that, and thought you were pretty smart.
But, of course, the real work always fell on us.
Good advice is all right, but it don't get the weeds out of the corn." "Maybe not, but it sometimes puts in the crop, and it sometimes keeps the fields for corn to grow in," said Alexandra dryly.
Why, Lou, I can remember when you and Oscar wanted to sell this homestead and all the improvements to old preacher Ericson for two thousand dollars.
If I'd consented, you'd have gone down to the river and scraped along on poor farms for the rest of your lives.
When I put in our first field of alfalfa you both opposed me, just because I first heard about it from a young man who had been to the University.
You said I was being taken in then, and all the neighbors said so.
You know as well as I do that alfalfa has been the salvation of this country.
You all laughed at me when I said our land here was about ready for wheat, and I had to raise three big wheat crops before the neighbors quit putting all their land in corn.
Why, I remember you cried, Lou, when we put in the first big wheat-planting, and said everybody was laughing at us." Lou turned to Oscar.
That's the woman of it; if she tells you to put in a crop, she thinks she's put it in. It makes women conceited to meddle in business.
I shouldn't think you'd want to remind us how hard you were on us, Alexandra, after the way you baby Emil." "Hard on you?
I never meant to be hard.
Maybe I would never have been very soft, anyhow; but I certainly didn't choose to be the kind of girl I was.
If you take even a vine and cut it back again and again, it grows hard, like a tree." Lou felt that they were wandering from the point, and that in digression Alexandra might unnerve him.
He wiped his forehead with a jerk of his handkerchief.
We never doubted you, Alexandra.
We never questioned anything you did.
You've always had your own way.
But you can't expect us to sit like stumps and see you done out of the property by any loafer who happens along, and making yourself ridiculous into the bargain." Oscar rose.
Yes," he broke in, "everybody's laughing to see you get took in; at your age, too.
Everybody knows he's nearly five years younger than you, and is after your money.
Why, Alexandra, you are forty years old!" "All that doesn't concern anybody but Carl and me.
Go to town and ask your lawyers what you can do to restrain me from disposing of my own property.
And I advise you to do what they tell you; for the authority you can exert by law is the only influence you will ever have over me again.
I think I would rather not have lived to find out what I have to-day," she said quietly, closing her desk. Lou and Oscar looked at each other questioningly.
There seemed to be nothing to do but to go, and they walked out. "You can't do business with women," Oscar said heavily as he clambered into the cart.
But anyhow, we've had our say, at last." Lou scratched his head.
Talk of that kind might come too high, you know; but she's apt to be sensible.
You hadn't ought to said that about her age, though, Oscar.
I'm afraid that hurt her feelings; and the worst thing we can do is to make her sore at us.
She'd marry him out of contrariness." "I only meant," said Oscar, "that she is old enough to know better, and she is.
If she was going to marry, she ought to done it long ago, and not go making a fool of herself now." Lou looked anxious, nevertheless.
Of course," he reflected hopefully and inconsistently, "Alexandra ain't much like other women-folks.
Maybe it won't make her sore.
Maybe she'd as soon be forty as not!" XI Emil came home at about half-past seven o'clock that evening.
Old Ivar met him at the windmill and took his horse, and the young man went directly into the house.
He called to his sister and she answered from her bedroom, behind the sitting-room, saying that she was lying down. Emil went to her door. "Can I see you for a minute?" he asked.
I want to talk to you about something before Carl comes." Alexandra rose quickly and came to the door.
Where is Carl?" "Lou and Oscar met us and said they wanted to talk to him, so he rode over to Oscar's with them.
Emil asked impatiently. "Yes, sit down.
I'll be dressed in a moment." Alexandra closed her door, and Emil sank down on the old slat lounge and sat with his head in his hands.
When his sister came out, he looked up, not knowing whether the interval had been short or long, and he was surprised to see that the room had grown quite dark.
That was just as well; it would be easier to talk if he were not under the gaze of those clear, deliberate eyes, that saw so far in some directions and were so blind in others.
Alexandra, too, was glad of the dusk.
Her face was swollen from crying. Emil started up and then sat down again.
Alexandra," he said slowly, in his deep young baritone, "I don't want to go away to law school this fall.
Let me put it off another year.
I want to take a year off and look around.
It's awfully easy to rush into a profession you don't really like, and awfully hard to get out of it.
Linstrum and I have been talking about that." "Very well, Emil.
Only don't go off looking for land.
She came up and put her hand on his shoulder.
I've been wishing you could stay with me this winter." "That's just what I don't want to do, Alexandra.
I want to go to a new place.
I want to go as soon as harvest is over.
I guess Lou and Oscar will be sore about it." "I suppose they will.
Alexandra sat down on the lounge beside him. "They are very angry with me, Emil.
We have had a quarrel.
They will not come here again." Emil scarcely heard what she was saying; he did not notice the sadness of her tone.
He was thinking about the reckless life he meant to live in Mexico. "What about?" he asked absently. "About Carl Linstrum.
They are afraid I am going to marry him, and that some of my property will get away from them." Emil shrugged his shoulders.
Just like them." Alexandra drew back.
Why nonsense, Emil?" "Why, you've never thought of such a thing, have you?
They always have to have something to fuss about." "Emil," said his sister slowly, "you ought not to take things for granted.
Do you agree with them that I have no right to change my way of living?" Emil looked at the outline of his sister's head in the dim light.
They were sitting close together and he somehow felt that she could hear his thoughts.
He was silent for a moment, and then said in an embarrassed tone, "Why, no, certainly not.
You ought to do whatever you want to. I'll always back you." "But it would seem a little bit ridiculous to you if I married Carl?" Emil fidgeted.
The issue seemed to him too far-fetched to warrant discussion.
Why, no. I should be surprised if you wanted to.
I can't see exactly why.
But that's none of my business.
You ought to do as you please.
Certainly you ought not to pay any attention to what the boys say." Alexandra sighed.
I had hoped you might understand, a little, why I do want to.
But I suppose that's too much to expect.
I've had a pretty lonely life, Emil.
Besides Marie, Carl is the only friend I have ever had." Emil was awake now; a name in her last sentence roused him.
He put out his hand and took his sister's awkwardly.
You ought to do just as you wish, and I think Carl's a fine fellow.
He and I would always get on.
I don't believe any of the things the boys say about him, honest I don't. They are suspicious of him because he's intelligent.
They've been sore at me ever since you let me go away to college. They're always trying to catch me up.
If I were you, I wouldn't pay any attention to them.
There's nothing to get upset about.
He won't mind them." "I don't know.
If they talk to him the way they did to me, I think he'll go away." Emil grew more and more uneasy.
Well, Marie said it would serve us all right if you walked off with him." "Did she?
Alexandra's voice broke. Emil began unlacing his leggings.
Why don't you talk to her about it? There's Carl, I hear his horse.
I guess I'll go upstairs and get my boots off.
No, I don't want any supper.
We had supper at five o'clock, at the fair." Emil was glad to escape and get to his own room.
He was a little ashamed for his sister, though he had tried not to show it.
He felt that there was something indecorous in her proposal, and she did seem to him somewhat ridiculous.
There was trouble enough in the world, he reflected, as he threw himself upon his bed, without people who were forty years old imagining they wanted to get married.
In the darkness and silence Emil was not likely to think long about Alexandra.
Every image slipped away but one.
He had seen Marie in the crowd that afternoon.
She sold candy at the fair. _Why_ had she ever run away with Frank Shabata, and how could she go on laughing and working and taking an interest in things?
Why did she like so many people, and why had she seemed pleased when all the French and Bohemian boys, and the priest himself, crowded round her candy stand?
Why did she care about any one but him?
In that dream he could lie for hours, as if in a trance.
He was distinguished-looking, and not the jollying kind.
They felt that he was too intense and preoccupied.
There was something queer about him. Emil's fraternity rather prided itself upon its dances, and sometimes he did his duty and danced every dance.
His sharp shoulders stooped as if he were very tired, his face was pale, and there were bluish shadows under his dark eyes.
His anger had burned itself out and left him sick and disgusted. "You have seen Lou and Oscar?
His eyes avoided hers. Alexandra took a deep breath.
And now you are going away.
I thought so." Carl threw himself into a chair and pushed the dark lock back from his forehead with his white, nervous hand.
What a hopeless position you are in, Alexandra!" he exclaimed feverishly.
It is your fate to be always surrounded by little men.
And I am no better than the rest.
I am too little to face the criticism of even such men as Lou and Oscar. Yes, I am going away; to-morrow.
I cannot even ask you to give me a promise until I have something to offer you.
I thought, perhaps, I could do that; but I find I can't." "What good comes of offering people things they don't need?
But I have needed you for a great many years.
I wonder why I have been permitted to prosper, if it is only to take my friends away from me." "I don't deceive myself," Carl said frankly.
I know that I am going away on my own account.
I must make the usual effort.
I must have something to show for myself.
To take what you would give me, I should have to be either a very large man or a very small one, and I am only in the middle class." Alexandra sighed.
I have a feeling that if you go away, you will not come back.
Something will happen to one of us, or to both.
People have to snatch at happiness when they can, in this world.
It is always easier to lose than to find.
What I have is yours, if you care enough about me to take it." Carl rose and looked up at the picture of John Bergson.
But I can't, my dear, I can't!
I will go North at once.
Instead of idling about in California all winter, I shall be getting my bearings up there.
I won't waste another week.
Be patient with me, Alexandra.
Give me a year!" "As you will," said Alexandra wearily.
All at once, in a single day, I lose everything; and I do not know why.
Emil, too, is going away.
Carl was still studying John Bergson's face and Alexandra's eyes followed his.
Yes," she said, "if he could have seen all that would come of the task he gave me, he would have been sorry.
I hope he does not see me now.
The birds have gone. The teeming life that goes on down in the long grass is exterminated. The prairie-dog keeps his hole.
The rabbits run shivering from one frozen garden patch to another and are hard put to it to find frost-bitten cabbage-stalks.
At night the coyotes roam the wintry waste, howling for food.
The variegated fields are all one color now; the pastures, the stubble, the roads, the sky are the same leaden gray. The hedgerows and trees are scarcely perceptible against the bare earth, whose slaty hue they have taken on.
The ground is frozen so hard that it bruises the foot to walk in the roads or in the ploughed fields.
It is like an iron country, and the spirit is oppressed by its rigor and melancholy.
One could easily believe that in that dead landscape the germs of life and fruitfulness were extinct forever. Alexandra has settled back into her old routine.
There are weekly letters from Emil.
She has not told Marie about Carl, or her differences with her brothers.
But on the first day of December Alexandra telephoned Annie that to-morrow she would send Ivar over for her mother, and the next day the old lady arrived with her bundles.
For twelve years Mrs. Lee had always entered Alexandra's sitting-room with the same exclamation, "Now we be yust-a like old times!
She enjoyed the liberty Alexandra gave her, and hearing her own language about her all day long.
Here she could wear her nightcap and sleep with all her windows shut, listen to Ivar reading the Bible, and here she could run about among the stables in a pair of Emil's old boots.
Though she was bent almost double, she was as spry as a gopher. Her face was as brown as if it had been varnished, and as full of wrinkles as a washerwoman's hands.
Sometimes she forgot which were the printed stories and which were the real stories, it all seemed so far away.
She loved to take a little brandy, with hot water and sugar, before she went to bed, and Alexandra always had it ready for her.
Mrs. Lee was firm with herself at dinner, and refused a second helping of apple dumplings.
I ta-ank I save up," she said with a giggle. At two o'clock in the afternoon Alexandra's cart drove up to the Shabatas' gate, and Marie saw Mrs. Lee's red shawl come bobbing up the path.
She ran to the door and pulled the old woman into the house with a hug, helping her to take off her wraps while Alexandra blanketed the horse outside.
Mrs. Lee had put on her best black satine dress-she abominated woolen stuffs, even in winter-and a crocheted collar, fastened with a big pale gold pin, containing faded daguerreotypes of her father and mother.
She had not worn her apron for fear of rumpling it, and now she shook it out and tied it round her waist with a conscious air.
Marie drew back and threw up her hands, exclaiming, "Oh, what a beauty!
I've never seen this one before, have I, Mrs. Lee?" The old woman giggled and ducked her head.
No, yust las' night I ma-ake.
See dis tread; verra strong, no wa-ash out, no fade.
My sister send from Sveden.
I yust-a ta-ank you like dis." Marie ran to the door again.
I have been looking at Mrs. Lee's apron.
Do stop on your way home and show it to Mrs. Hiller.
My, a-an't you gotta fine plants; such-a much flower.
Other nights I only put newspapers behind them.
Before he left California he sent me a box of orange flowers, but they didn't keep very well.
I have brought a bunch of Emil's letters for you.
Alexandra came out from the sitting-room and pinched Marie's cheek playfully.
You don't look as if the weather ever froze you up.
Never have colds, do you?
She had dark red cheeks like this when she was a little girl, Mrs. Lee.
She looked like some queer foreign kind of a doll.
I've never forgot the first time I saw you in Mieklejohn's store, Marie, the time father was lying sick.
Carl and I were talking about that before he went away." "I remember, and Emil had his kitten along.
When are you going to send Emil's Christmas box?" "It ought to have gone before this.
I'll have to send it by mail now, to get it there in time." Marie pulled a dark purple silk necktie from her workbasket.
I knit this for him.
It's a good color, don't you think?
Will you please put it in with your things and tell him it's from me, to wear when he goes serenading." Alexandra laughed.
I don't believe he goes serenading much.
He says in one letter that the Mexican ladies are said to be very beautiful, but that don't seem to me very warm praise." Marie tossed her head.
If he's bought a guitar, he goes serenading.
Who wouldn't, with all those Spanish girls dropping flowers down from their windows!
I'd sing to them every night, wouldn't you, Mrs. Lee?" The old lady chuckled.
Her eyes lit up as Marie bent down and opened the oven door.
A delicious hot fragrance blew out into the tidy kitchen.
I hope you'll like these, Mrs. Lee; Alexandra does.
The Bohemians always like them with their coffee.
But if you don't, I have a coffee-cake with nuts and poppy seeds.
Alexandra, will you get the cream jug?
I put it in the window to keep cool." "The Bohemians," said Alexandra, as they drew up to the table, "certainly know how to make more kinds of bread than any other people in the world.
Yust like-a fedders," she pronounced with satisfaction.
My, a-an't dis nice!" she exclaimed as she stirred her coffee.
I yust ta-ake a liddle yelly now, too, I ta-ank." Alexandra and Marie laughed at her forehandedness, and fell to talking of their own affairs.
I was afraid you had a cold when I talked to you over the telephone the other night, Marie.
What was the matter, had you been crying?" "Maybe I had," Marie smiled guiltily.
Frank was out late that night. Don't you get lonely sometimes in the winter, when everybody has gone away?" "I thought it was something like that.
If I hadn't had company, I'd have run over to see for myself.
If you get down-hearted, what will become of the rest of us?
Alexandra asked. "I don't, very often.
There's Mrs. Lee without any coffee!" Later, when Mrs. Lee declared that her powers were spent, Marie and Alexandra went upstairs to look for some crochet patterns the old lady wanted to borrow.
Better put on your coat, Alexandra.
It's cold up there, and I have no idea where those patterns are.
I may have to look through my old trunks.
Marie caught up a shawl and opened the stair door, running up the steps ahead of her guest.
While I go through the bureau drawers, you might look in those hat-boxes on the closet-shelf, over where Frank's clothes hang.
There are a lot of odds and ends in them." She began tossing over the contents of the drawers, and Alexandra went into the clothes-closet.
Presently she came back, holding a slender elastic yellow stick in her hand. "What in the world is this, Marie?
You don't mean to tell me Frank ever carried such a thing?" Marie blinked at it with astonishment and sat down on the floor.
Where did you find it?
I didn't know he had kept it.
I haven't seen it for years." "It really is a cane, then?" "Yes.
One he brought from the old country.
He used to carry it when I first knew him.
Poor Frank!" Alexandra twirled the stick in her fingers and laughed.
He must have looked funny!" Marie was thoughtful.
It didn't seem out of place.
He used to be awfully gay like that when he was a young man.
I guess people always get what's hardest for them, Alexandra.
Marie gathered the shawl closer about her and still looked hard at the cane. "Frank would be all right in the right place," she said reflectively. "He ought to have a different kind of wife, for one thing.
Do you know, Alexandra, I could pick out exactly the right sort of woman for Frank-now.
The trouble is you almost have to marry a man before you can find out the sort of wife he needs; and usually it's exactly the sort you are not.
Then what are you going to do about it?" she asked candidly. Alexandra confessed she didn't know.
No; I was spoiled at home.
I like my own way, and I have a quick tongue.
When Frank brags, I say sharp things, and he never forgets.
He goes over and over it in his mind; I can feel him.
Frank's wife ought to be timid, and she ought not to care about another living thing in the world but just Frank!
I didn't, when I married him, but I suppose I was too young to stay like that.
Marie sighed. Alexandra had never heard Marie speak so frankly about her husband before, and she felt that it was wiser not to encourage her.
No good, she reasoned, ever came from talking about such things, and while Marie was thinking aloud, Alexandra had been steadily searching the hat-boxes.
Aren't these the patterns, Maria?" Maria sprang up from the floor.
Sure enough, we were looking for patterns, weren't we?
I'd forgot about everything but Frank's other wife.
She went out to the cart with them, and tucked the robes about old Mrs. Lee while Alexandra took the blanket off her horse.
As they drove away, Marie turned and went slowly back to the house.
She took up the package of letters Alexandra had brought, but she did not read them.
They were not the sort of letters that a young man writes to his sister.
They were both more personal and more painstaking; full of descriptions of the gay life in the old Mexican capital in the days when the strong hand of Porfirio Diaz was still strong.
He told about bull-fights and cock-fights, churches and _fiestas_, the flower-markets and the fountains, the music and dancing, the people of all nations he met in the Italian restaurants on San Francisco Street.
When everything is done and over for one at twenty-three, it is pleasant to let the mind wander forth and follow a young adventurer who has life before him.
And if it had not been for me," she thought, "Frank might still be free like that, and having a good time making people admire him.
Poor Frank, getting married wasn't very good for him either.
I'm afraid I do set people against him, as he says.
I seem, somehow, to give him away all the time.
Perhaps he would try to be agreeable to people again, if I were not around.
It seems as if I always make him just as bad as he can be." Later in the winter, Alexandra looked back upon that afternoon as the last satisfactory visit she had had with Marie.
After that day the younger woman seemed to shrink more and more into herself.
When she was with Alexandra she was not spontaneous and frank as she used to be.
She seemed to be brooding over something, and holding something back.
The weather had a good deal to do with their seeing less of each other than usual.
There had not been such snowstorms in twenty years, and the path across the fields was drifted deep from Christmas until March.
When the two neighbors went to see each other, they had to go round by the wagon-road, which was twice as far.
She was a sincerely devout girl.
She prayed for herself and for Frank, and for Emil, among the temptations of that gay, corrupt old city.
She found more comfort in the Church that winter than ever before.
It seemed to come closer to her, and to fill an emptiness that ached in her heart.
She tried to be patient with her husband.
He and his hired man usually played California Jack in the evening.
When she went out into the dark kitchen to fix her plants for the night, she used to stand by the window and look out at the white fields, or watch the currents of snow whirling over the orchard.
She seemed to feel the weight of all the snow that lay down there.
The branches had become so hard that they wounded your hand if you but tried to break a twig.
And yet, down under the frozen crusts, at the roots of the trees, the secret of life was still safe, warm as the blood in one's heart; and the spring would come again!
Oh, it would come again! II If Alexandra had had much imagination she might have guessed what was going on in Marie's mind, and she would have seen long before what was going on in Emil's.
But that, as Emil himself had more than once reflected, was Alexandra's blind side, and her life had not been of the kind to sharpen her vision.
Her training had all been toward the end of making her proficient in what she had undertaken to do.
There were days, too, which she and Emil had spent together, upon which she loved to look back.
There had been such a day when they were down on the river in the dry year, looking over the land.
They had made an early start one morning and had driven a long way before noon.
They sat for a long time, watching the solitary bird take its pleasure.
No living thing had ever seemed to Alexandra as beautiful as that wild duck.
Emil must have felt about it as she did, for afterward, when they were at home, he used sometimes to say, "Sister, you know our duck down there-" Alexandra remembered that day as one of the happiest in her life.
Her mind was a white book, with clear writing about weather and beasts and growing things.
Not many people would have cared to read it; only a happy few.
She had never been in love, she had never indulged in sentimental reveries.
Even as a girl she had looked upon men as work-fellows.
She had grown up in serious times. There was one fancy indeed, which persisted through her girlhood.
Sometimes, as she lay thus luxuriously idle, her eyes closed, she used to have an illusion of being lifted up bodily and carried lightly by some one very strong.
It was a man, certainly, who carried her, but he was like no man she knew; he was much larger and stronger and swifter, and he carried her as easily as if she were a sheaf of wheat.
She never saw him, but, with eyes closed, she could feel that he was yellow like the sunlight, and there was the smell of ripe cornfields about him.
She could feel him approach, bend over her and lift her, and then she could feel herself being carried swiftly off across the fields.
After such a reverie she would rise hastily, angry with herself, and go down to the bath-house that was partitioned off the kitchen shed.
The high, narrow, red-brick building, with its tall steeple and steep roof, could be seen for miles across the wheatfields, though the little town of Sainte-Agnes was completely hidden away at the foot of the hill.
The sunlight was shining directly in her face, and there was a blaze of light all about the red church on the hill.
Beside Alexandra lounged a strikingly exotic figure in a tall Mexican hat, a silk sash, and a black velvet jacket sewn with silver buttons.
All the girls who have stands are going to wear fancy costumes," she argued, "and some of the boys.
Marie is going to tell fortunes, and she sent to Omaha for a Bohemian dress her father brought back from a visit to the old country.
If you wear those clothes, they will all be pleased.
And you must take your guitar.
Everybody ought to do what they can to help along, and we have never done much.
Signa had shyly asked to have the wedding put off until Emil came home. Alexandra was well satisfied with her brother.
As they drove through the rolling French country toward the westering sun and the stalwart church, she was thinking of that time long ago when she and Emil drove back from the river valley to the still unconquered Divide.
Yes, she told herself, it had been worth while; both Emil and the country had become what she had hoped.
Out of her father's children there was one who was fit to cope with the world, who had not been tied to the plow, and who had a personality apart from the soil.
And that, she reflected, was what she had worked for.
She felt well satisfied with her life. When they reached the church, a score of teams were hitched in front of the basement doors that opened from the hillside upon the sanded terrace, where the boys wrestled and had jumping-matches.
Oh, Emil," he cried, hugging his old friend rapturously, "why ain't you been up to see my boy?
Emil, you wanna get a boy right off!
It's the greatest thing ever!
Angel not sick at all.
That boy he come into this world laughin', and he been laughin' ever since.
He pounded Emil's ribs to emphasize each announcement. Emil caught his arms.
You're knocking the wind out of me.
I brought him cups and spoons and blankets and moccasins enough for an orphan asylum.
I'm awful glad it's a boy, sure enough!" The young men crowded round Emil to admire his costume and to tell him in a breath everything that had happened since he went away.
The Norwegian and Swedish lads were much more self-centred, apt to be egotistical and jealous.
Now they carried Emil off to show him the club room they had just fitted up over the post-office, down in the village.
They ran down the hill in a drove, all laughing and chattering at once, some in French, some in English. Alexandra went into the cool, whitewashed basement where the women were setting the tables.
Marie was standing on a chair, building a little tent of shawls where she was to tell fortunes.
She sprang down and ran toward Alexandra, stopping short and looking at her in disappointment. Alexandra nodded to her encouragingly. "Oh, he will be here, Marie.
The boys have taken him off to show him something.
He is a man now, sure enough.
I have no boy left.
He smokes terrible-smelling Mexican cigarettes and talks Spanish.
How pretty you look, child.
Where did you get those beautiful earrings?" "They belonged to father's mother.
He always promised them to me.
Her ears had been pierced against a piece of cork by her great-aunt when she was seven years old.
Marie could hear him talking and strumming on his guitar while Raoul Marcel sang falsetto.
She was vexed with him for staying out there.
It made her very nervous to hear him and not to see him; for, certainly, she told herself, she was not going out to look for him.
When the supper bell rang and the boys came trooping in to get seats at the first table, she forgot all about her annoyance and ran to greet the tallest of the crowd, in his conspicuous attire.
She didn't mind showing her embarrassment at all.
When she was delighted, she was as likely as not to stand on her tip-toes and clap her hands.
If people laughed at her, she laughed with them. "Do the men wear clothes like that every day, in the street?
She caught Emil by his sleeve and turned him about.
Oh, I wish I lived where people wore things like that!
Are the buttons real silver?
Put on the hat, please.
How do you ever wear it?
Why don't you tell us about the bull-fights?" She wanted to wring all his experiences from him at once, without waiting a moment.
Emil smiled tolerantly and stood looking down at her with his old, brooding gaze, while the French girls fluttered about him in their white dresses and ribbons, and Alexandra watched the scene with pride.
Several of the French girls, Marie knew, were hoping that Emil would take them to supper, and she was relieved when he took only his sister.
Marie caught Frank's arm and dragged him to the same table, managing to get seats opposite the Bergsons, so that she could hear what they were talking about.
Alexandra made Emil tell Mrs. Xavier Chevalier, the mother of the twenty, about how he had seen a famous matador killed in the bull-ring.
How did the women dress when they went to bull-fights?
Did they never wear hats? After supper the young people played charades for the amusement of their elders, who sat gossiping between their guesses.
All the shops in Sainte-Agnes were closed at eight o'clock that night, so that the merchants and their clerks could attend the fair.
The auction was the liveliest part of the entertainment, for the French boys always lost their heads when they began to bid, satisfied that their extravagance was in a good cause.
After all the pincushions and sofa pillows and embroidered slippers were sold, Emil precipitated a panic by taking out one of his turquoise shirt studs, which every one had been admiring, and handing it to the auctioneer.
All the French girls clamored for it, and their sweethearts bid against each other recklessly.
Marie wanted it, too, and she kept making signals to Frank, which he took a sour pleasure in disregarding.
He didn't see the use of making a fuss over a fellow just because he was dressed like a clown.
I see a long journey across water for you, Father.
You will go to a town all cut up by water; built on islands, it seems to be, with rivers and green fields all about.
And you will visit an old lady with a white cap and gold hoops in her ears, and you will be very happy there." "Mais, oui," said the priest, with a melancholy smile.
Sometimes he could have thanked the man who would bring him evidence against his wife.
He had discharged a good farm-boy, Jan Smirka, because he thought Marie was fond of him; but she had not seemed to miss Jan when he was gone, and she had been just as kind to the next boy.
The farm-hands would always do anything for Marie; Frank couldn't find one so surly that he would not make an effort to please her.
At the bottom of his heart Frank knew well enough that if he could once give up his grudge, his wife would come back to him.
But he could never in the world do that.
Perhaps he could not have given it up if he had tried. Perhaps he got more satisfaction out of feeling himself abused than he would have got out of being loved.
If he could once have made Marie thoroughly unhappy, he might have relented and raised her from the dust.
But she had never humbled herself.
In the first days of their love she had been his slave; she had admired him abandonedly.
But the moment he began to bully her and to be unjust, she began to draw away; at first in tearful amazement, then in quiet, unspoken disgust.
The distance between them had widened and hardened.
It no longer contracted and brought them suddenly together.
The spark of her life went somewhere else, and he was always watching to surprise it.
He knew that somewhere she must get a feeling to live upon, for she was not a woman who could live without loving.
He wanted to prove to himself the wrong he felt.
What did she hide in her heart?
Even Frank had his churlish delicacies; he never reminded her of how much she had once loved him.
He leaned over the card-table and gave himself up to looking at her.
Do you think you could tell my fortune?" he murmured.
It was the first word he had had alone with her for almost a year.
My luck hasn't changed any.
It's just the same." Marie had often wondered whether there was anyone else who could look his thoughts to you as Emil could.
To-night, when she met his steady, powerful eyes, it was impossible not to feel the sweetness of the dream he was dreaming; it reached her before she could shut it out, and hid itself in her heart.
She began to shuffle her cards furiously.
I'm angry with you, Emil," she broke out with petulance.
Why did you give them that lovely blue stone to sell?
You might have known Frank wouldn't buy it for me, and I wanted it awfully!" Emil laughed shortly.
People who want such little things surely ought to have them," he said dryly.
He thrust his hand into the pocket of his velvet trousers and brought out a handful of uncut turquoises, as big as marbles.
Leaning over the table he dropped them into her lap. "There, will those do?
Be careful, don't let any one see them.
Now, I suppose you want me to go away and let you play with them?" Marie was gazing in rapture at the soft blue color of the stones.
Is everything down there beautiful like these?
There was a shiver and a giggle, and every one looked toward the red blur that Marie's candle made in the dark.
Immediately that, too, was gone. Little shrieks and currents of soft laughter ran up and down the dark hall.
Marie started up,-directly into Emil's arms.
In the same instant she felt his lips.
The veil that had hung uncertainly between them for so long was dissolved.
Not until it was over did she realize what it meant.
And Emil, who had so often imagined the shock of this first kiss, was surprised at its gentleness and naturalness.
Only Marie, in her little tent of shawls, was pale and quiet.
Under her yellow turban the red coral pendants swung against white cheeks.
Frank was still staring at her, but he seemed to see nothing.
Years ago, he himself had had the power to take the blood from her cheeks like that.
Perhaps he did not remember-perhaps he had never noticed!
Emil was already at the other end of the hall, walking about with the shoulder-motion he had acquired among the Mexicans, studying the floor with his intent, deep-set eyes.
Marie began to take down and fold her shawls.
She did not glance up again.
The young people drifted to the other end of the hall where the guitar was sounding.
In a moment she heard Emil and Raoul singing:- "Across the Rio Grand-e There lies a sunny land-e, My bright-eyed Mexico!" Alexandra Bergson came up to the card booth.
Let me help you, Marie. You look tired." She placed her hand on Marie's arm and felt her shiver.
Marie stiffened under that kind, calm hand.
The guests, and the tiresome little Norwegian preacher who had performed the marriage ceremony, were saying good-night.
Old Ivar was hitching the horses to the wagon to take the wedding presents and the bride and groom up to their new home, on Alexandra's north quarter.
When Ivar drove up to the gate, Emil and Marie Shabata began to carry out the presents, and Alexandra went into her bedroom to bid Signa good-bye and to give her a few words of good counsel.
She was surprised to find that the bride had changed her slippers for heavy shoes and was pinning up her skirts.
At that moment Nelse appeared at the gate with the two milk cows that Alexandra had given Signa for a wedding present. Alexandra began to laugh.
Why, Signa, you and Nelse are to ride home. I'll send Ivar over with the cows in the morning." Signa hesitated and looked perplexed.
When her husband called her, she pinned her hat on resolutely.
Emil burst into a laugh before they were out of hearing. "Those two will get on," said Alexandra as they turned back to the house.
They are not going to take any chances.
They will feel safer with those cows in their own stable.
Marie, I am going to send for an old woman next.
As soon as I get the girls broken in, I marry them off." "I've no patience with Signa, marrying that grumpy fellow!
I wanted her to marry that nice Smirka boy who worked for us last winter.
I think she liked him, too." "Yes, I think she did," Alexandra assented, "but I suppose she was too much afraid of Nelse to marry any one else.
Now that I think of it, most of my girls have married men they were afraid of.
I believe there is a good deal of the cow in most Swedish girls.
You high-strung Bohemian can't understand us.
We're a terribly practical people, and I guess we think a cross man makes a good manager." Marie shrugged her shoulders and turned to pin up a lock of hair that had fallen on her neck.
Somehow Alexandra had irritated her of late. Everybody irritated her.
She was tired of everybody.
I'm going home alone, Emil, so you needn't get your hat," she said as she wound her scarf quickly about her head.
Good-night, Alexandra," she called back in a strained voice, running down the gravel walk. Emil followed with long strides until he overtook her.
Then she began to walk slowly.
It never seems to make much difference whether it is me or Raoul Marcel or Jan Smirka.
Are you really like that?" "Perhaps I am. What do you want me to do?
Sit round and cry all day? When I've cried until I can't cry any more, then-then I must do something else." "Are you sorry for me?" he persisted. "No, I'm not.
If I were big and free like you, I wouldn't let anything make me unhappy.
As old Napoleon Brunot said at the fair, I wouldn't go lovering after no woman.
I'd take the first train and go off and have all the fun there is." "I tried that, but it didn't do any good.
The nicer the place was, the more I wanted you.
They had come to the stile and Emil pointed to it persuasively.
Sit down a moment, I want to ask you something.
Marie sat down on the top step and Emil drew nearer. "Would you tell me something that's none of my business if you thought it would help me out?
Well, then, tell me, _please_ tell me, why you ran away with Frank Shabata!" Marie drew back.
Because I was in love with him," she said firmly. "Really?" he asked incredulously. "Yes, indeed.
Very much in love with him.
I think I was the one who suggested our running away.
From the first it was more my fault than his." Emil turned away his face. "And now," Marie went on, "I've got to remember that.
Frank is just the same now as he was then, only then I would see him as I wanted him to be.
I would have my own way.
And now I pay for it." "You don't do all the paying." "That's it.
When one makes a mistake, there's no telling where it will stop.
But you can go away; you can leave all this behind you." "Not everything.
I can't leave you behind.
Will you go away with me, Marie?" Marie started up and stepped across the stile.
I am not that kind of a girl, and you know it.
But what am I going to do if you keep tormenting me like this!" she added plaintively. "Marie, I won't bother you any more if you will tell me just one thing. Stop a minute and look at me.
No, nobody can see us.
That was only a firefly.
Marie, _stop_ and tell me!" Emil overtook her and catching her by the shoulders shook her gently, as if he were trying to awaken a sleepwalker. Marie hid her face on his arm.
Don't ask me anything more.
I don't know anything except how miserable I am. And I thought it would be all right when you came back.
Oh, Emil," she clutched his sleeve and began to cry, "what am I to do if you don't go away?
I can't go, and one of us must.
Can't you see?" Emil stood looking down at her, holding his shoulders stiff and stiffening the arm to which she clung.
Her white dress looked gray in the darkness.
She seemed like a troubled spirit, like some shadow out of the earth, clinging to him and entreating him to give her peace. Behind her the fireflies were weaving in and out over the wheat.
He put his hand on her bent head.
On my honor, Marie, if you will say you love me, I will go away." She lifted her face to his.
How could I help it?
Didn't you know?" Emil was the one who trembled, through all his frame.
From time to time he rose and wandered about the house, picking up stray volumes and bringing them listlessly back to his box.
He was packing without enthusiasm.
He was not very sanguine about his future.
Alexandra sat sewing by the table.
She had helped him pack his trunk in the afternoon.
As Emil came and went by her chair with his books, he thought to himself that it had not been so hard to leave his sister since he first went away to school.
He was going directly to Omaha, to read law in the office of a Swedish lawyer until October, when he would enter the law school at Ann Arbor.
His ideas about the future would not crystallize; the more he tried to think about it, the vaguer his conception of it became.
He studied Alexandra's face for a long time in the lamplight.
It had never occurred to him that his sister was a handsome woman until Marie Shabata had told him so.
Indeed, he had never thought of her as being a woman at all, only a sister.
As he studied her bent head, he looked up at the picture of John Bergson above the lamp.
No," he thought to himself, "she didn't get it there.
I suppose I am more like that." "Alexandra," he said suddenly, "that old walnut secretary you use for a desk was father's, wasn't it?" Alexandra went on stitching.
It was one of the first things he bought for the old log house.
It was a great extravagance in those days.
But he wrote a great many letters back to the old country.
He had many friends there, and they wrote to him up to the time he died.
No one ever blamed him for grandfather's disgrace.
I can see him now, sitting there on Sundays, in his white shirt, writing pages and pages, so carefully.
He wrote a fine, regular hand, almost like engraving. Yours is something like his, when you take pains." "Grandfather was really crooked, was he?" "He married an unscrupulous woman, and then-then I'm afraid he was really crooked.
When we first came here father used to have dreams about making a great fortune and going back to Sweden to pay back to the poor sailors the money grandfather had lost." Emil stirred on the lounge.
I say, that would have been worth while, wouldn't it?
Father wasn't a bit like Lou or Oscar, was he?
I can't remember much about him before he got sick." "Oh, not at all!
Alexandra dropped her sewing on her knee.
He had better opportunities; not to make money, but to make something of himself.
He was a quiet man, but he was very intelligent.
You would have been proud of him, Emil." Alexandra felt that he would like to know there had been a man of his kin whom he could admire.
She knew that Emil was ashamed of Lou and Oscar, because they were bigoted and self-satisfied.
He never said much about them, but she could feel his disgust.
His brothers had shown their disapproval of him ever since he first went away to school.
The only thing that would have satisfied them would have been his failure at the University.
As it was, they resented every change in his speech, in his dress, in his point of view; though the latter they had to conjecture, for Emil avoided talking to them about any but family matters.
All his interests they treated as affectations. Alexandra took up her sewing again.
I can remember father when he was quite a young man.
He belonged to some kind of a musical society, a male chorus, in Stockholm.
I can remember going with mother to hear them sing.
There must have been a hundred of them, and they all wore long black coats and white neckties.
I was used to seeing father in a blue coat, a sort of jacket, and when I recognized him on the platform, I was very proud.
Do you remember that Swedish song he taught you, about the ship boy?" "Yes.
I used to sing it to the Mexicans.
They like anything different." Emil paused.
Father had a hard fight here, didn't he?" he added thoughtfully. "Yes, and he died in a dark time.
He believed in the land." "And in you, I guess," Emil said to himself.
I have great hopes of Milly." Emil shivered.
Seems to me it gets worse as it goes on. The worst of the Swedes is that they're never willing to find out how much they don't know.
It was like that at the University.
Always so pleased with themselves!
There's no getting behind that conceited Swedish grin.
The Bohemians and Germans were so different." "Come, Emil, don't go back on your own people.
Father wasn't conceited, Uncle Otto wasn't.
Even Lou and Oscar weren't when they were boys." Emil looked incredulous, but he did not dispute the point.
He turned on his back and lay still for a long time, his hands locked under his head, looking up at the ceiling.
Alexandra knew that he was thinking of many things.
She felt no anxiety about Emil.
She had always believed in him, as she had believed in the land.
He had been more like himself since he got back from Mexico; seemed glad to be at home, and talked to her as he used to do.
I often think of her.
It always seems to me she's there still, just like we saw her." "I know.
It's queer what things one remembers and what things one forgets.
Emil yawned and sat up.
Well, it's time to turn in." He rose, and going over to Alexandra stooped down and kissed her lightly on the cheek.
I think you did pretty well by us." Emil took up his lamp and went upstairs.
He begins to cut his wheat to-day; the first wheat ready to cut anywhere about here.
He bought a new header, you know, because all the wheat's so short this year.
I hope he can rent it to the neighbors, it cost so much.
He and his cousins bought a steam thresher on shares.
You ought to go out and see that header work.
He's sick, too, and ought to be in his bed." Emil bent over Hector Baptiste, trying to make him blink his round, bead-like black eyes.
We don't have that kind of babies.
It was his father that kept Baptiste awake.
All night I had to be getting up and making mustard plasters to put on his stomach.
He had an awful colic.
Stepping off the header without stopping it, he ran up to Emil who had dismounted.
I have to go over to the engine for a minute.
I gotta green man running it, and I gotta to keep an eye on him." Emil thought the lad was unnaturally flushed and more excited than even the cares of managing a big farm at a critical time warranted.
I got an awful pain in me, Emil.
Something's the matter with my insides, for sure." Emil felt his fiery cheek.
I got no time to be sick.
Three thousand dollars' worth of new machinery to manage, and the wheat so ripe it will begin to shatter next week.
My wheat's short, but it's gotta grand full berries.
What's he slowing down for?
He mounted his mare and rode on to Sainte-Agnes, to bid his friends there good-bye.
It was a comfort to hear her friend's voice.
Emil had been there when they carried him out of the field, and had stayed with him until the doctors operated for appendicitis at five o'clock.
They were afraid it was too late to do much good; it should have been done three days ago.
Emil had just come home, worn out and sick himself.
She had given him some brandy and put him to bed. Marie hung up the receiver.
Marie looked about the dusky sitting-room.
She had seldom felt so utterly lonely.
If Emil was asleep, there was not even a chance of his coming; and she could not go to Alexandra for sympathy.
She meant to tell Alexandra everything, as soon as Emil went away.
Then whatever was left between them would be honest. But she could not stay in the house this evening.
Where should she go? She walked slowly down through the orchard, where the evening air was heavy with the smell of wild cotton.
The fresh, salty scent of the wild roses had given way before this more powerful perfume of midsummer. Wherever those ashes-of-rose balls hung on their milky stalks, the air about them was saturated with their breath.
The sky was still red in the west and the evening star hung directly over the Bergsons' wind-mill.
Marie crossed the fence at the wheatfield corner, and walked slowly along the path that led to Alexandra's.
It seemed to her most unnatural that he should not have come.
If she were in trouble, certainly he was the one person in the world she would want to see.
Perhaps he wished her to understand that for her he was as good as gone already. Marie stole slowly, flutteringly, along the path, like a white night-moth out of the fields.
Marie walked on, her face lifted toward the remote, inaccessible evening star. When she reached the stile she sat down and waited.
How terrible it was to love people when you could not really share their lives! Yes, in so far as she was concerned, Emil was already gone.
They couldn't meet any more.
There was nothing for them to say.
They had spent the last penny of their small change; there was nothing left but gold.
The day of love-tokens was past.
They had now only their hearts to give each other.
And Emil being gone, what was her life to be like? In some ways, it would be easier.
She would not, at least, live in perpetual fear.
If Emil were once away and settled at work, she would not have the feeling that she was spoiling his life.
With the memory he left her, she could be as rash as she chose.
Nobody could be the worse for it but herself; and that, surely, did not matter.
Her own case was clear.
When a girl had loved one man, and then loved another while that man was still alive, everybody knew what to think of her.
What happened to her was of little consequence, so long as she did not drag other people down with her.
Emil once away, she could let everything else go and live a new life of perfect love. Marie left the stile reluctantly.
She had, after all, thought he might come.
And how glad she ought to be, she told herself, that he was asleep.
She left the path and went across the pasture.
The moon was almost full.
An owl was hooting somewhere in the fields.
She had scarcely thought about where she was going when the pond glittered before her, where Emil had shot the ducks.
She stopped and looked at it.
Yes, there would be a dirty way out of life, if one chose to take it.
But she did not want to die.
She wanted to live and dream-a hundred years, forever!
As long as this sweetness welled up in her heart, as long as her breast could hold this treasure of pain!
Emil, I went to your room as soon as it was light, but you were sleeping so sound I hated to wake you.
There was nothing you could do, so I let you sleep.
Father Duchesne divided his time between the living and the dead.
The choir were busy rehearsing a mass of Rossini, which they had studied and practised for this occasion.
At six o'clock on Sunday morning the boys met at the church.
As they stood holding their horses by the bridle, they talked in low tones of their dead comrade.
He had played and wrestled and sung and courted under its shadow.
Only three weeks ago he had proudly carried his baby there to be christened.
A wave of zeal and fiery enthusiasm swept over them.
They longed for a Jerusalem to deliver.
The thud of their galloping hoofs interrupted many a country breakfast and brought many a woman and child to the door of the farmhouses as they passed.
Five miles east of Sainte-Agnes they met the bishop in his open carriage, attended by two priests.
What fine boys!" he said to his priests.
He knelt and uncovered as the bishop passed.
The boys with one accord looked away from old Pierre to the red church on the hill, with the gold cross flaming on its steeple. Mass was at eleven.
While the church was filling, Emil Bergson waited outside, watching the wagons and buggies drive up the hill.
After the bell began to ring, he saw Frank Shabata ride up on horseback and tie his horse to the hitch-bar.
Marie, then, was not coming.
Emil turned and went into the church.
When all the pews were full, the old men and boys packed the open space at the back of the church, kneeling on the floor.
There was scarcely a family in town that was not represented in the confirmation class, by a cousin, at least.
The new communicants, with their clear, reverent faces, were beautiful to look upon as they entered in a body and took the front benches reserved for them.
Even before the Mass began, the air was charged with feeling.
The choir had never sung so well and Raoul Marcel, in the "Gloria," drew even the bishop's eyes to the organ loft.
For the offertory he sang Gounod's "Ave Maria,"-always spoken of in Sainte-Agnes as "the Ave Maria." Emil began to torture himself with questions about Marie.
Was she ill? Had she quarreled with her husband?
Was she too unhappy to find comfort even here?
Had she, perhaps, thought that he would come to her?
Was she waiting for him?
Overtaxed by excitement and sorrow as he was, the rapture of the service took hold upon his body and mind.
As he listened to Raoul, he seemed to emerge from the conflicting emotions which had been whirling him about and sucking him under.
He felt as if a clear light broke upon his mind, and with it a conviction that good was, after all, stronger than evil, and that good was possible to men.
He seemed to discover that there was a kind of rapture in which he could love forever without faltering and without sin.
He looked across the heads of the people at Frank Shabata with calmness.
That rapture was for those who could feel it; for people who could not, it was non-existent.
He coveted nothing that was Frank Shabata's.
The spirit he had met in music was his own.
The girls, and even the boys, were kissed and embraced and wept over.
All the aunts and grandmothers wept with joy.
The housewives had much ado to tear themselves away from the general rejoicing and hurry back to their kitchens.
The country parishioners were staying in town for dinner, and nearly every house in Sainte-Agnes entertained visitors that day. Father Duchesne, the bishop, and the visiting priests dined with Fabien Sauvage, the banker.
Emil and Frank Shabata were both guests of old Moise Marcel.
He slipped out under cover of "The Holy City," followed by Malvina's wistful eye, and went to the stable for his mare.
He was at that height of excitement from which everything is foreshortened, from which life seems short and simple, death very near, and the soul seems to soar like an eagle.
That, too, was beautiful, that simple doorway into forgetfulness.
The heart, when it is too much alive, aches for that brown earth, and ecstasy has no fear of death.
It is the old and the poor and the maimed who shrink from that brown hole; its wooers are found among the young, the passionate, the gallant-hearted.
It was not until he had passed the graveyard that Emil realized where he was going.
It was the hour for saying good-bye.
The breath of the wheat and the sweet clover passed him like pleasant things in a dream.
He could feel nothing but the sense of diminishing distance.
It seemed to him that his mare was flying, or running on wheels, like a railway train.
The sunlight, flashing on the window-glass of the big red barns, drove him wild with joy.
He was like an arrow shot from the bow.
His life poured itself out along the road before him as he rode to the Shabata farm. When Emil alighted at the Shabatas' gate, his horse was in a lather.
He tied her in the stable and hurried to the house.
She might be at Mrs. Hiller's or with Alexandra.
But anything that reminded him of her would be enough, the orchard, the mulberry tree...
When he reached the orchard the sun was hanging low over the wheatfield.
Marie was lying on her side under the white mulberry tree, her face half hidden in the grass, her eyes closed, her hands lying limply where they had happened to fall.
She had lived a day of her new life of perfect love, and it had left her like this.
Her breast rose and fell faintly, as if she were asleep.
Emil threw himself down beside her and took her in his arms.
Such an impertinence amazed him.
Like everybody else, Frank had had an exciting day.
Since noon he had been drinking too much, and he was in a bad temper.
He talked bitterly to himself while he put his own horse away, and as he went up the path and saw that the house was dark he felt an added sense of injury.
He approached quietly and listened on the doorstep.
Hearing nothing, he opened the kitchen door and went softly from one room to another.
Then he went through the house again, upstairs and down, with no better result.
He sat down on the bottom step of the box stairway and tried to get his wits together.
In that unnatural quiet there was no sound but his own heavy breathing. Suddenly an owl began to hoot out in the fields.
Frank lifted his head. An idea flashed into his mind, and his sense of injury and outrage grew.
He went into his bedroom and took his murderous 405 Winchester from the closet. When Frank took up his gun and walked out of the house, he had not the faintest purpose of doing anything with it.
He did not believe that he had any real grievance.
But it gratified him to feel like a desperate man.
He had got into the habit of seeing himself always in desperate straits.
His unhappy temperament was like a cage; he could never get out of it; and he felt that other people, his wife in particular, must have put him there.
It had never more than dimly occurred to Frank that he made his own unhappiness.
He retraced his steps and looked through the barn and the hayloft.
Then he went out to the road, where he took the foot-path along the outside of the orchard hedge.
The hedge was twice as tall as Frank himself, and so dense that one could see through it only by peering closely between the leaves.
He could see the empty path a long way in the moonlight.
His mind traveled ahead to the stile, which he always thought of as haunted by Emil Bergson.
But why had he left his horse? At the wheatfield corner, where the orchard hedge ended and the path led across the pasture to the Bergsons', Frank stopped.
In the warm, breathless night air he heard a murmuring sound, perfectly inarticulate, as low as the sound of water coming from a spring, where there is no fall, and where there are no stones to fret it.
It seemed to him that they must feel his eyes, that they must hear him breathing. But they did not.
Frank, who had always wanted to see things blacker than they were, for once wanted to believe less than he saw.
The woman lying in the shadow might so easily be one of the Bergsons' farm-girls....
Again the murmur, like water welling out of the ground. This time he heard it more distinctly, and his blood was quicker than his brain.
He began to act, just as a man who falls into the fire begins to act.
The gun sprang to his shoulder, he sighted mechanically and fired three times without stopping, stopped without knowing why. Either he shut his eyes or he had vertigo.
He did not see anything while he was firing.
He thought he heard a cry simultaneous with the second report, but he was not sure.
He peered again through the hedge, at the two dark figures under the tree.
She was dragging herself toward the hedge! Frank dropped his gun and ran back along the path, shaking, stumbling, gasping.
He had never imagined such horror.
The cries followed him. They grew fainter and thicker, as if she were choking.
He dropped on his knees beside the hedge and crouched like a rabbit, listening; fainter, fainter; a sound like a whine; again-a moan-another-silence. Frank scrambled to his feet and ran on, groaning and praying.
From habit he went toward the house, where he was used to being soothed when he had worked himself into a frenzy, but at the sight of the black, open door, he started back.
He knew that he had murdered somebody, that a woman was bleeding and moaning in the orchard, but he had not realized before that it was his wife.
The gate stared him in the face. He threw his hands over his head.
He lifted his tormented face and looked at the sky.
Holy Mother of God, not to suffer!
The thought of going into a doorway was terrible to him.
He caught Emil's horse by the bit and led it out.
He could not have buckled a bridle on his own.
After two or three attempts, he lifted himself into the saddle and started for Hanover.
Terror was the only thing that kept him from going back to her, terror that she might still be she, that she might still be suffering.
A woman, mutilated and bleeding in his orchard-it was because it was a woman that he was so afraid.
It was inconceivable that he should have hurt a woman.
He would rather be eaten by wild beasts than see her move on the ground as she had moved in the orchard. Why had she been so careless?
She knew he was like a crazy man when he was angry.
She had more than once taken that gun away from him and held it, when he was angry with other people.
Once it had gone off while they were struggling over it.
But, when she knew him, why hadn't she been more careful?
Didn't she have all summer before her to love Emil Bergson in, without taking such chances? Probably she had met the Smirka boy, too, down there in the orchard.
She could have met all the men on the Divide there, and welcome, if only she hadn't brought this horror on him. There was a wrench in Frank's mind.
He did not honestly believe that of her.
He knew that he was doing her wrong.
He stopped his horse to admit this to himself the more directly, to think it out the more clearly.
He knew that he was to blame.
For three years he had been trying to break her spirit.
She had a way of making the best of things that seemed to him a sentimental affectation.
He wanted his wife to resent that he was wasting his best years among these stupid and unappreciative people; but she had seemed to find the people quite good enough.
He had tried to make her life ugly.
He had refused to share any of the little pleasures she was so plucky about making for herself.
She could be gay about the least thing in the world; but she must be gay!
When she first came to him, her faith in him, her adoration-Frank struck the mare with his fist.
Why had Marie made him do this thing; why had she brought this upon him?
He was overwhelmed by sickening misfortune.
All at once he heard her cries again-he had forgotten for a moment.
Maria," he sobbed aloud, "Maria!" When Frank was halfway to Hanover, the motion of his horse brought on a violent attack of nausea.
After it had passed, he rode on again, but he could think of nothing except his physical weakness and his desire to be comforted by his wife.
He wanted to get into his own bed.
The old man was thrown into a fright at once.
He put the mare in her stall, threw her a measure of oats, and then set out as fast as his bow-legs could carry him on the path to the nearest neighbor. "Something is wrong with that boy.
Some misfortune has come upon us.
He would never have used her so, in his right senses.
The story of what had happened was written plainly on the orchard grass, and on the white mulberries that had fallen in the night and were covered with dark stain.
For Emil the chapter had been short.
He was shot in the heart, and had rolled over on his back and died.
His face was turned up to the sky and his brows were drawn in a frown, as if he had realized that something had befallen him.
But for Marie Shabata it had not been so easy.
One ball had torn through her right lung, another had shattered the carotid artery.
She must have started up and gone toward the hedge, leaving a trail of blood.
There she had fallen and bled.
From that spot there was another trail, heavier than the first, where she must have dragged herself back to Emil's body.
Once there, she seemed not to have struggled any more.
She had lifted her head to her lover's breast, taken his hand in both her own, and bled quietly to death.
She was lying on her right side in an easy and natural position, her cheek on Emil's shoulder.
On her face there was a look of ineffable content.
Her lips were parted a little; her eyes were lightly closed, as if in a day-dream or a light slumber.
After she lay down there, she seemed not to have moved an eyelash.
The hand she held was covered with dark stains, where she had kissed it. But the stained, slippery grass, the darkened mulberries, told only half the story.
He turned and peered through the branches, falling upon his knees as if his legs had been mowed from under him.
Merciful God!" he groaned. Alexandra, too, had risen early that morning, because of her anxiety about Emil.
She was in Emil's room upstairs when, from the window, she saw Ivar coming along the path that led from the Shabatas'.
She ran downstairs and hurried out to meet him, to hide his infirmity from the eyes of her household.
The old man fell in the road at her feet and caught her hand, over which he bowed his shaggy head.
Mistress, mistress," he sobbed, "it has fallen!
It was only five o'clock of a mid-October day, but a storm had come up in the afternoon, bringing black clouds, a cold wind and torrents of rain.
The old man wore his buffalo-skin coat, and occasionally stopped to warm his fingers at the lantern.
Suddenly a woman burst into the shed, as if she had been blown in, accompanied by a shower of rain-drops.
It was Signa, wrapped in a man's overcoat and wearing a pair of boots over her shoes.
In time of trouble Signa had come back to stay with her mistress, for she was the only one of the maids from whom Alexandra would accept much personal service.
It was three months now since the news of the terrible thing that had happened in Frank Shabata's orchard had first run like a fire over the Divide.
Signa and Nelse were staying on with Alexandra until winter. "Ivar," Signa exclaimed as she wiped the rain from her face, "do you know where she is?" The old man put down his cobbler's knife.
She went away about three o'clock.
I happened to look out of the window and saw her going across the fields in her thin dress and sun-hat.
And now this storm has come on.
I thought she was going to Mrs. Hiller's, and I telephoned as soon as the thunder stopped, but she had not been there.
She was shivering with cold and excitement.
Where do you suppose she can be, Ivar?" The old man lifted a set of single harness carefully from its peg.
How should I know?" "But you think she is at the graveyard, don't you?
Signa persisted. "So do I.
Oh, I wish she would be more like herself!
I can't believe it's Alexandra Bergson come to this, with no head about anything.
I have to tell her when to eat and when to go to bed." "Patience, patience, sister," muttered Ivar as he settled the bit in the horse's mouth.
When the eyes of the flesh are shut, the eyes of the spirit are open.
She will have a message from those who are gone, and that will bring her peace.
Until then we must bear with her.
You and I are the only ones who have weight with her.
She trusts us." "How awful it's been these last three months.
Signa held the lantern so that he could see to buckle the straps.
It don't seem right that we must all be so miserable.
Why do we all have to be punished?
Seems to me like good times would never come again." Ivar expressed himself in a deep sigh, but said nothing.
He stooped and took a sandburr from his toe. "Ivar," Signa asked suddenly, "will you tell me why you go barefoot? All the time I lived here in the house I wanted to ask you.
Is it for a penance, or what?" "No, sister.
It is for the indulgence of the body.
From my youth up I have had a strong, rebellious body, and have been subject to every kind of temptation.
Even in age my temptations are prolonged.
It was necessary to make some allowances; and the feet, as I understand it, are free members.
There is no divine prohibition for them in the Ten Commandments.
The hands, the tongue, the eyes, the heart, all the bodily desires we are commanded to subdue; but the feet are free members.
I indulge them without harm to any one, even to trampling in filth when my desires are low.
They are quickly cleaned again." Signa did not laugh.
She looked thoughtful as she followed Ivar out to the wagon-shed and held the shafts up for him, while he backed in the mare and buckled the hold-backs.
You have been a good friend to the mistress, Ivar," she murmured. "And you, God be with you," replied Ivar as he clambered into the cart and put the lantern under the oilcloth lap-cover.
Now for a ducking, my girl," he said to the mare, gathering up the reins. As they emerged from the shed, a stream of water, running off the thatch, struck the mare on the neck.
She tossed her head indignantly, then struck out bravely on the soft ground, slipping back again and again as she climbed the hill to the main road.
Between the rain and the darkness Ivar could see very little, so he let Emil's mare have the rein, keeping her head in the right direction.
The sky and the land were a dark smoke color, and seemed to be coming together, like two waves.
There's nothing to be worried about.
I'm sorry if I've scared you all.
I didn't notice the storm till it was on me, and I couldn't walk against it.
I am so tired I didn't know how I'd ever get home." Ivar swung the lantern up so that it shone in her face. "_Gud!_ You are enough to frighten us, mistress.
You look like a drowned woman.
How could you do such a thing!" Groaning and mumbling he led her out of the gate and helped her into the cart, wrapping her in the dry blankets on which he had been sitting. Alexandra smiled at his solicitude.
Not much use in that, Ivar.
You will only shut the wet in. I don't feel so cold now; but I'm heavy and numb.
I'm glad you came." Ivar turned the mare and urged her into a sliding trot.
Her feet sent back a continual spatter of mud. Alexandra spoke to the old man as they jogged along through the sullen gray twilight of the storm.
Ivar, I think it has done me good to get cold clear through like this, once.
I don't believe I shall suffer so much any more.
When you get so near the dead, they seem more real than the living.
Ever since Emil died, I've suffered so when it rained.
Now that I've been out in it with him, I shan't dread it.
After you once get cold clear through, the feeling of the rain on you is sweet.
It seems to bring back feelings you had when you were a baby.
It carries you back into the dark, before you were born; you can't see things, but they come to you, somehow, and you know them and aren't afraid of them.
Maybe it's like that with the dead.
If they feel anything at all, it's the old things, before they were born, that comfort people like the feeling of their own bed does when they are little." "Mistress," said Ivar reproachfully, "those are bad thoughts.
When Alexandra was in bed, wrapped in hot blankets, Ivar came in with his tea and saw that she drank it.
Signa asked permission to sleep on the slat lounge outside her door. Alexandra endured their attentions patiently, but she was glad when they put out the lamp and left her.
As she lay alone in the dark, it occurred to her for the first time that perhaps she was actually tired of life.
All the physical operations of life seemed difficult and painful.
She longed to be free from her own body, which ached and was so heavy.
He was with her a long while this time, and carried her very far, and in his arms she felt free from pain.
When he laid her down on her bed again, she opened her eyes, and, for the first time in her life, she saw him, saw him clearly, though the room was dark, and his face was covered.
He was standing in the doorway of her room.
His white cloak was thrown over his face, and his head was bent a little forward.
His shoulders seemed as strong as the foundations of the world.
His right arm, bared from the elbow, was dark and gleaming, like bronze, and she knew at once that it was the arm of the mightiest of all lovers.
She knew at last for whom it was she had waited, and where he would carry her.
That, she told herself, was very well.
Then she went to sleep. Alexandra wakened in the morning with nothing worse than a hard cold and a stiff shoulder.
She kept her bed for several days, and it was during that time that she formed a resolution to go to Lincoln to see Frank Shabata.
Ever since she last saw him in the courtroom, Frank's haggard face and wild eyes had haunted her.
The trial had lasted only three days.
Frank had given himself up to the police in Omaha and pleaded guilty of killing without malice and without premeditation.
The gun was, of course, against him, and the judge had given him the full sentence,-ten years.
He had now been in the State Penitentiary for a month. Frank was the only one, Alexandra told herself, for whom anything could be done.
He had been less in the wrong than any of them, and he was paying the heaviest penalty.
She often felt that she herself had been more to blame than poor Frank.
From the time the Shabatas had first moved to the neighboring farm, she had omitted no opportunity of throwing Marie and Emil together.
Because she knew Frank was surly about doing little things to help his wife, she was always sending Emil over to spade or plant or carpenter for Marie.
She was glad to have Emil see as much as possible of an intelligent, city-bred girl like their neighbor; she noticed that it improved his manners.
She knew that Emil was fond of Marie, but it had never occurred to her that Emil's feeling might be different from her own.
She wondered at herself now, but she had never thought of danger in that direction.
If Marie had been unmarried,-oh, yes!
Then she would have kept her eyes open.
But the mere fact that she was Shabata's wife, for Alexandra, settled everything.
That she was beautiful, impulsive, barely two years older than Emil, these facts had had no weight with Alexandra.
Emil was a good boy, and only bad boys ran after married women. Now, Alexandra could in a measure realize that Marie was, after all, Marie; not merely a "married woman.
Sometimes, when Alexandra thought of her, it was with an aching tenderness.
The moment she had reached them in the orchard that morning, everything was clear to her.
There was something about those two lying in the grass, something in the way Marie had settled her cheek on Emil's shoulder, that told her everything.
She wondered then how they could have helped loving each other; how she could have helped knowing that they must.
She and Frank, she told herself, were left out of that group of friends who had been overwhelmed by disaster.
She must certainly see Frank Shabata.
Even in the courtroom her heart had grieved for him.
He was in a strange country, he had no kinsmen or friends, and in a moment he had ruined his life.
Being what he was, she felt, Frank could not have acted otherwise.
She could understand his behavior more easily than she could understand Marie's.
Yes, she must go to Lincoln to see Frank Shabata. The day after Emil's funeral, Alexandra had written to Carl Linstrum; a single page of notepaper, a bare statement of what had happened.
She was not a woman who could write much about such a thing, and about her own feelings she could never write very freely.
She knew that Carl was away from post-offices, prospecting somewhere in the interior.
Before he started he had written her where he expected to go, but her ideas about Alaska were vague.
As the weeks went by and she heard nothing from him, it seemed to Alexandra that her heart grew hard against Carl. She began to wonder whether she would not do better to finish her life alone.
What was left of life seemed unimportant. II Late in the afternoon of a brilliant October day, Alexandra Bergson, dressed in a black suit and traveling-hat, alighted at the Burlington depot in Lincoln.
She drove to the Lindell Hotel, where she had stayed two years ago when she came up for Emil's Commencement.
In spite of her usual air of sureness and self-possession, Alexandra felt ill at ease in hotels, and she was glad, when she went to the clerk's desk to register, that there were not many people in the lobby.
She had her supper early, wearing her hat and black jacket down to the dining-room and carrying her handbag.
After supper she went out for a walk. It was growing dark when she reached the university campus.
A squad of cadets were going through their drill behind the armory, and the commands of their young officer rang out at regular intervals, so sharp and quick that Alexandra could not understand them.
Two stalwart girls came down the library steps and out through one of the iron gates.
As they passed her, Alexandra was pleased to hear them speaking Bohemian to each other.
Every few moments a boy would come running down the flagged walk and dash out into the street as if he were rushing to announce some wonder to the world. Alexandra felt a great tenderness for them all.
She wished one of them would stop and speak to her.
She wished she could ask them whether they had known Emil. As she lingered by the south gate she actually did encounter one of the boys.
He had on his drill cap and was swinging his books at the end of a long strap.
It was dark by this time; he did not see her and ran against her.
He snatched off his cap and stood bareheaded and panting. "I'm awfully sorry," he said in a bright, clear voice, with a rising inflection, as if he expected her to say something. "Oh, it was my fault!" said Alexandra eagerly.
Are you an old student here, may I ask?" "No, ma'am. I'm a Freshie, just off the farm.
Were you hunting somebody?" "No, thank you.
That is-" Alexandra wanted to detain him.
That is, I would like to find some of my brother's friends.
He graduated two years ago." "Then you'd have to try the Seniors, wouldn't you?
Let's see; I don't know any of them yet, but there'll be sure to be some of them around the library.
That red building, right there," he pointed. "Thank you, I'll try there," said Alexandra lingeringly. "Oh, that's all right!
The lad clapped his cap on his head and ran straight down Eleventh Street.
Alexandra looked after him wistfully. She walked back to her hotel unreasonably comforted.
What a nice voice that boy had, and how polite he was.
I know Emil was always like that to women.
I hope he will get on well here.
Cherry County; that's where the hay is so fine, and the coyotes can scratch down to water." At nine o'clock the next morning Alexandra presented herself at the warden's office in the State Penitentiary.
The warden was a German, a ruddy, cheerful-looking man who had formerly been a harness-maker. Alexandra had a letter to him from the German banker in Hanover.
As he glanced at the letter, Mr. Schwartz put away his pipe. "That big Bohemian, is it?
Sure, he's gettin' along fine," said Mr. Schwartz cheerfully. "I am glad to hear that.
I was afraid he might be quarrelsome and get himself into more trouble.
We'll take care of him all right," he said, rising.
You can talk to him here, while I go to see to things in the kitchen.
I'll have him sent in. He ought to be done washing out his cell by this time.
Coming out on the streetcar she had not had the least dread of meeting Frank.
It was easy to see that he was a sick man.
Alexandra looked at him timidly, but he did not once raise his eyes.
He wore a white shirt under his striped jacket, a high collar, and a necktie, very carefully tied.
Through the door he opened a guard came in, bringing Frank Shabata. "You the lady that wanted to talk to 1037?
Be on your good behavior, now.
He can set down, lady," seeing that Alexandra remained standing.
Push that white button when you're through with him, and I'll come." The guard went out and Alexandra and Frank were left alone. Alexandra tried not to see his hideous clothes.
She tried to look straight into his face, which she could scarcely believe was his.
It was already bleached to a chalky gray.
His lips were colorless, his fine teeth looked yellowish.
He glanced at Alexandra sullenly, blinked as if he had come from a dark place, and one eyebrow twitched continually.
She felt at once that this interview was a terrible ordeal to him.
His shaved head, showing the conformation of his skull, gave him a criminal look which he had not had during the trial. Alexandra held out her hand.
Frank," she said, her eyes filling suddenly, "I hope you'll let me be friendly with you.
I understand how you did it.
I don't feel hard toward you.
They were more to blame than you." Frank jerked a dirty blue handkerchief from his trousers pocket.
He had begun to cry.
He turned away from Alexandra.
I never did mean to do not'ing to dat woman," he muttered.
I never mean to do not'ing to dat boy.
I ain't had not'ing ag'in' dat boy.
I always like dat boy fine. An' then I find him-" He stopped.
The feeling went out of his face and eyes.
He dropped into a chair and sat looking stolidly at the floor, his hands hanging loosely between his knees, the handkerchief lying across his striped leg.
He seemed to have stirred up in his mind a disgust that had paralyzed his faculties. "I haven't come up here to blame you, Frank.
I think they were more to blame than you.
Alexandra, too, felt benumbed. Frank looked up suddenly and stared out of the office window.
I guess dat place all go to hell what I work so hard on," he said with a slow, bitter smile.
I not care a damn.
He stopped and rubbed the palm of his hand over the light bristles on his head with annoyance.
I no can t'ink without my hair," he complained.
We not talk here, except swear." Alexandra was bewildered.
Frank seemed to have undergone a change of personality.
There was scarcely anything by which she could recognize her handsome Bohemian neighbor.
He seemed, somehow, not altogether human.
She did not know what to say to him. "You do not feel hard to me, Frank?" she asked at last. Frank clenched his fist and broke out in excitement.
I not feel hard at no woman.
I tell you I not that kind-a man.
I never hit my wife.
No, never I hurt her when she devil me something awful!
He struck his fist down on the warden's desk so hard that he afterward stroked it absently.
A pale pink crept over his neck and face.
Two, t'ree years I know dat woman don' care no more 'bout me, Alexandra Bergson.
I know she after some other man.
An' I ain't never hurt her.
I never would-a done dat, if I ain't had dat gun along.
I don' know what in hell make me take dat gun.
She always say I ain't no man to carry gun.
I know you never meant to hurt Marie." Frank smiled at her queerly.
His eyes filled slowly with tears.
You know, I most forgit dat woman's name.
She ain't got no name for me no more.
I never hate my wife, but dat woman what make me do dat-Honest to God, but I hate her!
I no man to fight.
I don' want to kill no boy and no woman.
I not care how many men she take under dat tree.
I no care for not'ing but dat fine boy I kill, Alexandra Bergson.
I guess I go crazy sure 'nough." Alexandra remembered the little yellow cane she had found in Frank's clothes-closet.
She thought of how he had come to this country a gay young fellow, so attractive that the prettiest Bohemian girl in Omaha had run away with him.
It seemed unreasonable that life should have landed him in such a place as this.
That was the strangest thing of all.
Was there, then, something wrong in being warm-hearted and impulsive like that? Alexandra hated to think so.
But there was Emil, in the Norwegian graveyard at home, and here was Frank Shabata.
Alexandra rose and took him by the hand. "Frank Shabata, I am never going to stop trying until I get you pardoned.
I'll never give the Governor any peace.
I know I can get you out of this place." Frank looked at her distrustfully, but he gathered confidence from her face.
Alexandra," he said earnestly, "if I git out-a here, I not trouble dis country no more.
I go back where I come from; see my mother." Alexandra tried to withdraw her hand, but Frank held on to it nervously.
He put out his finger and absently touched a button on her black jacket.
Alexandra," he said in a low tone, looking steadily at the button, "you ain' t'ink I use dat girl awful bad before-" "No, Frank.
We won't talk about that," Alexandra said, pressing his hand.
Alexandra nodded, and he came in and touched the white button on his desk.
The guard appeared, and with a sinking heart Alexandra saw Frank led away down the corridor.
After a few words with Mr. Schwartz, she left the prison and made her way to the street-car.
She had refused with horror the warden's cordial invitation to "go through the institution.
She remembered some lines from a poem she had liked in her schooldays:- Henceforth the world will only be A wider prison-house to me,- and sighed.
A disgust of life weighed upon her heart; some such feeling as had twice frozen Frank Shabata's features while they talked together.
She wished she were back on the Divide. When Alexandra entered her hotel, the clerk held up one finger and beckoned to her.
As she approached his desk, he handed her a telegram. Alexandra took the yellow envelope and looked at it in perplexity, then stepped into the elevator without opening it.
As she walked down the corridor toward her room, she reflected that she was, in a manner, immune from evil tidings.
On reaching her room she locked the door, and sitting down on a chair by the dresser, opened the telegram.
It was from Hanover, and it read:- Arrived Hanover last night.
Shall wait here until you come.
Please hurry. CARL LINSTRUM. Alexandra put her head down on the dresser and burst into tears. III The next afternoon Carl and Alexandra were walking across the fields from Mrs. Hiller's.
Alexandra had left Lincoln after midnight, and Carl had met her at the Hanover station early in the morning.
After they reached home, Alexandra had gone over to Mrs. Hiller's to leave a little present she had bought for her in the city.
Carl had changed very little.
His cheeks were browner and fuller.
He looked less like a tired scholar than when he went away a year ago, but no one, even now, would have taken him for a man of business.
His soft, lustrous black eyes, his whimsical smile, would be less against him in the Klondike than on the Divide.
There are always dreamers on the frontier. Carl and Alexandra had been talking since morning.
Her letter had never reached him.
He had first learned of her misfortune from a San Francisco paper, four weeks old, which he had picked up in a saloon, and which contained a brief account of Frank Shabata's trial.
You see, my dear, I happen to have an honest partner.
I trust him with everything.
In fact, it's been his enterprise from the beginning, you know.
I'm in it only because he took me in. I'll have to go back in the spring.
Perhaps you will want to go with me then.
We haven't turned up millions yet, but we've got a start that's worth following.
But this winter I'd like to spend with you.
You won't feel that we ought to wait longer, on Emil's account, will you, Alexandra?" Alexandra shook her head.
No, Carl; I don't feel that way about it. And surely you needn't mind anything Lou and Oscar say now.
They are much angrier with me about Emil, now, than about you.
They say it was all my fault.
That I ruined him by sending him to college." "No, I don't care a button for Lou or Oscar.
The moment I knew you were in trouble, the moment I thought you might need me, it all looked different.
You've always been a triumphant kind of person.
Carl hesitated, looking sidewise at her strong, full figure.
But you do need me now, Alexandra?" She put her hand on his arm.
I needed you terribly when it happened, Carl.
I cried for you at night.
Then everything seemed to get hard inside of me, and I thought perhaps I should never care for you again. But when I got your telegram yesterday, then-then it was just as it used to be.
You are all I have in the world, you know." Carl pressed her hand in silence.
They were passing the Shabatas' empty house now, but they avoided the orchard path and took one that led over by the pasture pond. "Can you understand it, Carl?
I have had nobody but Ivar and Signa to talk to.
Can you understand it? Could you have believed that of Marie Tovesky?
I would have been cut to pieces, little by little, before I would have betrayed her trust in me!" Carl looked at the shining spot of water before them.
Maybe she was cut to pieces, too, Alexandra.
I am sure she tried hard; they both did. That was why Emil went to Mexico, of course.
And he was going away again, you tell me, though he had only been home three weeks.
You remember that Sunday when I went with Emil up to the French Church fair?
I thought that day there was some kind of feeling, something unusual, between them.
I meant to talk to you about it.
But on my way back I met Lou and Oscar and got so angry that I forgot everything else.
You mustn't be hard on them, Alexandra.
Sit down here by the pond a minute.
There are women who spread ruin around them through no fault of theirs, just by being too beautiful, too full of life and love.
People come to them as people go to a warm fire in winter.
I used to feel that in her when she was a little girl.
Do you remember how all the Bohemians crowded round her in the store that day, when she gave Emil her candy?
You remember those yellow sparks in her eyes?" Alexandra sighed.
People couldn't help loving her.
Poor Frank does, even now, I think; though he's got himself in such a tangle that for a long time his love has been bitterer than his hate.
But if you saw there was anything wrong, you ought to have told me, Carl." Carl took her hand and smiled patiently.
My dear, it was something one felt in the air, as you feel the spring coming, or a storm in summer.
Simply, when I was with those two young things, I felt my blood go quicker, I felt-how shall I say it?-an acceleration of life.
After I got away, it was all too delicate, too intangible, to write about." Alexandra looked at him mournfully.
I try to be more liberal about such things than I used to be.
I try to realize that we are not all made alike.
Only, why couldn't it have been Raoul Marcel, or Jan Smirka?
Why did it have to be my boy?" "Because he was the best there was, I suppose.
They were both the best you had here." The sun was dropping low in the west when the two friends rose and took the path again.
The straw-stacks were throwing long shadows, the owls were flying home to the prairie-dog town.
When they came to the corner where the pastures joined, Alexandra's twelve young colts were galloping in a drove over the brow of the hill. "Carl," said Alexandra, "I should like to go up there with you in the spring.
I haven't been on the water since we crossed the ocean, when I was a little girl.
After we first came out here I used to dream sometimes about the shipyard where father worked, and a little sort of inlet, full of masts.
After a moment's thought she said, "But you would never ask me to go away for good, would you?" "Of course not, my dearest.
I think I know how you feel about this country as well as you do yourself.
Carl took her hand in both his own and pressed it tenderly. "Yes, I still feel that way, though Emil is gone.
When I was on the train this morning, and we got near Hanover, I felt something like I did when I drove back with Emil from the river that time, in the dry year.
I was glad to come back to it.
I've lived here a long time.
There is great peace here, Carl, and freedom....
I thought when I came out of that prison, where poor Frank is, that I should never feel free again. But I do, here.
Alexandra took a deep breath and looked off into the red west. "You belong to the land," Carl murmured, "as you have always said.
Now more than ever." "Yes, now more than ever.
You remember what you once said about the graveyard, and the old story writing itself over?
Only it is we who write it, with the best we have." They paused on the last ridge of the pasture, overlooking the house and the windmill and the stables that marked the site of John Bergson's homestead.
On every side the brown waves of the earth rolled away to meet the sky. "Lou and Oscar can't see those things," said Alexandra suddenly. "Suppose I do will my land to their children, what difference will that make?
The land belongs to the future, Carl; that's the way it seems to me.
How many of the names on the county clerk's plat will be there in fifty years?
I might as well try to will the sunset over there to my brother's children.
We come and go, but the land is always here.
And the people who love it and understand it are the people who own it-for a little while." Carl looked at her wonderingly.
She was still gazing into the west, and in her face there was that exalted serenity that sometimes came to her at moments of deep feeling.
It will never come true, now, in the way I thought it might.
She took Carl's arm and they walked toward the gate.
How many times we have walked this path together, Carl.
How many times we will walk it again!
Does it seem to you like coming back to your own place?
Do you feel at peace with the world here?
I think we shall be very happy.
I think when friends marry, they are safe.
We don't suffer like-those young ones.
Alexandra ended with a sigh. They had reached the gate.
Before Carl opened it, he drew Alexandra to him and kissed her softly, on her lips and on her eyes. She leaned heavily on his shoulder.
I am tired," she murmured.
I have been very lonely, Carl." They went into the house together, leaving the Divide behind them, under the evening star.
Fortunate country, that is one day to receive hearts like Alexandra's into its bosom, to give them out again in the yellow wheat, in the rustling corn, in the shining eyes of youth!
The Literacy entry now includes rates for males, females, and both sexes.
Appendix C: International Organizations and Groups is new and includes date established, aim, and list of members.
Changes that have been reported but not yet acted upon by BGN are noted. _#_Area: Total area is the sum of all land and water areas delimited by international boundaries and/or coastlines.
The smaller entities are compared with Washington, DC (178 km2, 69 miles2) or The Mall in Washington, DC (0.59 km2, 0.23 miles2, 146 acres). _#_Birth rate: The average annual number of births during a year per 1,000 population at midyear.
Also known as crude birth rate. _#_Dates of information: In general, information available as of 1 January 1991 was used in the preparation of this edition.
Population figures are estimates for 1 July 1991, with population growth rates estimated for mid-1991 through mid-1992.
Major political events have been updated through 30 June 1991.
Military age figures are average annual estimates for 1991-95. _#_Death rate: The average annual number of deaths during a year per l,000 population at midyear.
Also known as crude death rate. _#_Diplomatic representation: The US Government has diplomatic relations with 162 nations.
The US has diplomatic relations with 151 of the 159 UN members--the exceptions are Angola, Belorussia (Byelorussia; constituent republic of the Soviet Union), Cambodia, Cuba, Iran, Vietnam, Ukraine (constituent republic of the Soviet Union) and, obviously, the US itself.
In addition, the US has diplomatic relations with 12 nations that are not in the UN--Andorra, Federated States of Micronesia, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Monaco, Nauru, San Marino, South Korea, Switzerland, Tonga, Tuvalu, and the Vatican City.
North Korea is not in the UN and the US does not have diplomatic relations with that nation.
The PPP method normally involves the use of international dollar price weights, which are applied to the quantities of goods and services produced in a given economy.
In addition to the lack of reliable data from the majority of countries, the statistician faces a major difficulty in specifying, identifying, and allowing for the quality of goods and services.
The division of a PPP GNP/GDP estimate in dollars by the corresponding estimate in the local currency gives the PPP conversion rate.
One thousand dollars will buy the same market basket of goods in the US as one thousand dollars, converted to the local currency at the PPP conversion rate, will buy in the other country.
GNP/GDP estimates for the LDCs, on the other hand, are based on the conversion of GNP/GDP estimates in local currencies to dollars at the official currency exchange rates.
Over the past decade, one-third of the population has fled the country, with Pakistan sheltering about 3.3 million refugees and Iran about 1.3 million.
In recent years Albania has implemented limited economic reforms to stimulate its lagging economy, provide incentives, and decentralize decisionmaking.
In an effort to expand international ties, Tirane has reestablished diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union and the US.
The Albanians have also passed legislation allowing foreign investment.
ROSS; Embassy at 4 Chemin Cheich Bachir El-Ibrahimi, Algiers (mailing address is B.
Tuna fishing and tuna processing plants are the backbone of the private-sector economy, with canned tuna the primary export.
The principal livestock activity is sheep raising. Manufacturing consists mainly of cigarettes, cigars, and furniture.
In recent years, however, the impact of fighting an internal war has severely affected the nonoil economy, and food has to be imported.
For the long run, Angola has the advantage of rich natural resources, notably gold, diamonds, and arable land.
Administration is carried out through consultative member meetings--the last meeting was held in Madrid (Spain) in April 1991. Consultative (voting) members include seven nations that claim portions of Antarctica as national territory (some claims overlap) and nonclaimant nations.
The US and other nations have made no claims, but have reserved the right to claim territory.
The US does not recognize the claims of others.
The year in parentheses indicates when an acceding nation was voted to full consultative (voting) status, while no date indicates an original 1959 treaty signatory.
Nevertheless, following decades of mismanagement and statist policies, the economy has encountered major problems in recent years, leading to escalating inflation and a recession in 1988-90.
A widening public-sector deficit and a multidigit inflation rate have dominated the economy over the past three years; retail prices rose nearly 5,000% in 1989 and another 1,345% in 1990.
Unemployment has steadily declined from about 20% in 1986 to about 2% in 1990.
Improved export prospects from German unification and the opening of Eastern Europe will also boost the economy during the next few years.
Problems for the l990s include an aging population, the high level of subsidies, and the struggle to keep welfare benefits within budget capabilities.
McDONALD; Chancery at Suite 865, 600 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington DC 20037; telephone (202) 944-3390; there are Bahamian Consulates General in Miami and New York; US--Ambassador Chic HECHT; Embassy at Mosmar Building, Queen Street, Nassau (mailing address is P.
HOSTLER; Embassy at Building No. 979, Road No. 3119, Block/Area 331, Manama ZINJ (mailing address is P.
The liberation of Kuwait in early 1991 has improved short- to medium-term prospects and has raised investors' confidence.
JALIL; Ganotantri Party, leader NA; Islami Oikya Jote, leader NA; National Democratic Party, leader NA; Muslim League, Khan A.
Ataul KARIM; Chancery at 2201 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington DC 20007; telephone (202) 342-8372 through 8376; there is a Bangladesh Consulate General in New York; US--Ambassador William B.
MILAM; Embassy at Diplomatic Enclave, Madani Avenue, Baridhara, Dhaka (mailing address is G.
Bangladesh is hampered by a relative lack of natural resources, population growth of more than 2% a year, large-scale unemployment, and a limited infrastructure; furthermore, it is highly vulnerable to natural disasters.
Despite these constraints, real GDP growth averaged about 3.5% annually during 1985-89.
Over 70% of trade is with other EC countries.
During the period 1988-90 Belgium's economic performance was marked by buoyant output growth, moderate inflation, and a substantial external surplus. Real GDP grew by an average of 3.9% in 1988-90.
HYDE; Chancery at Suite 2J, 3400 International Drive NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 363-4505; US--Ambassador Eugene L.
SCASSA; Embassy at Gabourel Lane and Hutson Street, Belize City (mailing address is P.
Agriculture accounts for almost 40% of GDP, employs about 60% of the labor force, and generates a major share of foreign exchange earnings.
The industrial sector contributes only about 15% to GDP and employs 2% of the work force.
Ebersole GAINES; Consulate General at Crown Hill, 16 Middle Road, Devonshire, Hamilton (mailing address is P.
Rugged mountains dominate the terrain and make the building of roads and other infrastructure difficult and expensive.
The economy is closely aligned with that of India through strong trade and monetary links. Low wages in industry lead most Bhutanese to stay in agriculture. Most development projects, such as road construction, rely on Indian migrant labor.
GELBARD; Embassy at Banco Popular del Peru Building, corner of Calles Mercado y Colon, La Paz (mailing address is P.
Nevertheless, Bolivia continues to be one of the poorest countries in Latin America, and it remains vulnerable to price fluctuations for its limited exports--agricultural products, minerals, and natural gas.
Box 90, Gaborone); telephone [267] 353-982 through 353-984 _#_Flag: light blue with a horizontal white-edged black stripe in the center _*_Economy _#_Overview: The economy has historically been based on cattle raising and crops.
Agriculture today provides a livelihood for over 80% of the population, but produces only about 50% of food needs and contributes a small 3% to GDP.
This sector, mostly on the strength of diamonds, has gone from generating 25% of GDP in 1980 to over 50% in 1989.
No other sector has experienced such growth, especially not agriculture, which is plagued by erratic rainfall and poor soils.
In addition, the economy remained highly regulated, inward-looking, and protected by substantial trade and investment barriers.
Ownership of major industrial and mining facilities is divided among private interests--including several multinationals--and the government.
Most large agricultural holdings are private, with the government channeling financing to this sector.
Conflicts between large landholders and landless peasants have produced intermittent violence. The government is seeking an IMF standby loan despite several failed agreements over the past decade.
Relations with foreign commercial banks remain strained because of mounting interest arrears on Brazil's long-term debt.
The Collor government, which assumed office in March 1990, is embarked on an ambitious reform program that seeks to modernize and reinvigorate the economy by stabilizing prices, deregulating the economy, and opening it to increased foreign competition.
Lavity STOUTT (since NA 1986) _#_Political parties and leaders: United Party (UP), Conrad MADURO; Virgin Islands Party (VIP), H.
Lavity STOUTT; Independent People's Movement (IPM), Cyril B.
PHILLIPS; Embassy at Third Floor, Teck Guan Plaza, Jalan Sultan, Bandar Seri Begawan (mailing address is P.
It is almost totally supported by exports of crude oil and natural gas, with revenues from the petroleum sector accounting for more than 50% of GDP.
By 1990 Sofia's foreign debt had skyrocketed to over $10 billion--giving a debt service ratio of more than 40% of hard currency earnings and leading the regime to declare a moratorium on its hard currency payments.
A major decree of January 1989 summarized and extended the government's economic restructuring efforts, which include a partial decentralization of controls over production decisions and foreign trade.
In October 1990 the Lukanov government proposed an economic reform program based on a US Chamber of Commerce study.
It was never instituted because of a political stalemate between the BSP and the UDF.
BRYNN; Embassy at Avenue Raoul Follerau, Ouagadougou (mailing address is 01 B.
The nation has been unable to achieve any substantial improvement in export earnings because of falling prices for many of its major commodity exports.
Its economic health depends on the coffee crop, which accounts for an average 90% of foreign exchange earnings each year.
Foreign trade is primarily with the USSR and Vietnam.
Statistical data on the economy continues to be sparse and unreliable.
COOK; Embassy at Rue Nachtigal, Yaounde (mailing address is B.
Because of the sharp drop in oil prices, however, the economy experienced serious budgetary difficulties and balance-of-payments disequilibrium.
Despite the recent upsurge in oil prices, Cameroon's economic outlook is troubled.
In the 1980s Canada registered one of the highest rates of real growth among the OECD nations, averaging about 3.2%.
The economy is service oriented, with commerce, transport, and public services accounting for 65% of GDP during the period 1985-88.
Although nearly 70% of the population lives in rural areas, agriculture's share of GDP is only 16%; the fishing sector accounts for 4%.
The fishing potential, mostly lobster and tuna, is not fully exploited.
In 1988 fishing represented only 3.5% of GDP.
Subsistence agriculture, including forestry, is the backbone of the economy, with over 70% of the population living in the countryside.
In 1988 the agricultural sector generated about 40% of GDP.
BOGOSIAN; Embassy at Avenue Felix Eboue, N'Djamena (mailing address is B.
Its economy is burdened by the ravages of civil war, conflict with Libya, drought, and food shortages.
In 1986 real GDP returned to its 1977 level, with cotton, the major cash crop, accounting for 48% of exports.
Over 80% of the work force is employed in subsistence farming and fishing. Industry is based almost entirely on the processing of agricultural products, including cotton, sugarcane, and cattle.
Chad is highly dependent on foreign aid, with its economy in trouble and many regions suffering from shortages.
Monetary policy was not successful at slowing price increases until the end of the year, however, and inflation, stimulated by higher world oil prices, increased to 27.3% in 1990 from 21.4% in 1989.
Copper prices held strong in 1990, helping to maintain a balance-of-payments surplus and increase international reserves.
BUSBY; Embassy at Calle 38, No.8-61, Bogota (mailing address is P.
Conservative economic policies have kept inflation and unemployment near 30% and 10%, respectively.
PELTIER; Embassy at address NA, Moroni (mailing address B.
The low educational level of the labor force contributes to a low level of economic activity, high unemployment, and a heavy dependence on foreign grants and technical assistance.
Agriculture, including fishing and forestry, is the leading sector of the economy.
It contributes about 40% to GDP, employs 80% of the labor force, and provides most of the exports. The country is not self-sufficient in food production, and rice, the main staple, accounts for 90% of imports.
During the period 1982-86 the industrial sector grew at an annual average rate of 5.3%, but its contribution to GDP was only 5% in 1988.
Despite major investment in the tourist industry, which accounts for about 25% of GDP, growth has stagnated since 1983.
Manufacturing activities are limited to a fruit-processing plant and several clothing factories. Economic development is hindered by the isolation of the islands from foreign markets and a lack of natural resources and good transportation links.
In 1990 consumer prices rose by about 25% and the trade deficit widened.
Unemployment is officially reported at 6%, but much underemployment remains.
Sugar provides about 75% of export revenues and over half is exported to the USSR.
The economy has stagnated since 1985 under policies that have deemphasized material incentives in the workplace, abolished farmers' informal produce markets, and raised prices of government-supplied goods and services.
In 1990 the economy probably fell 3%, largely as a result of declining trade with the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
The annual $4 billion Soviet subsidy, a main prop to Cuba's threadbare economy, is likely to show a substantial decline over the next few years in view of the USSR's mounting economic problems.
Instead of highly subsidized trade, Cuba will be shifting to trade at market prices in convertible currencies.
SHERIFIS; Chancery at 2211 R Street NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 462-5772; there is a Cypriot Consulate General in New York; US--Ambassador Robert E.
The country is deficient, however, in energy and in many raw materials. Moreover, its aging capital plant lags well behind West European standards.
Industry contributes almost 50% to GNP and construction contributes 10%.
About 95% of agricultural land is in collectives or state farms.
GNP per capita is the highest in Eastern Europe.
As in the rest of Eastern Europe, the sweeping political changes of 1989-90 have been disrupting normal channels of supply and compounding the government's economic problems.
The Danish economy is likely to maintain its slow but steady improvement in 1991.
GDP grew by 1.3% in 1990 and probably will grow by about 1.25% in 1991; unemployment is running close to 10%.
In 1990 Denmark had the lowest inflation rate in the EC, a record trade surplus, and the first balance-of-payments surplus in 26 years.
BARRETT IV; Embassy at Villa Plateau du Serpent, Boulevard Marechal Joffre, Djibouti (mailing address is B.
Djibouti provides services as both a transit port for the region and an international transshipment and refueling center. It has few natural resources and little industry.
The nation is, therefore, heavily dependent on foreign assistance to help support its balance of payments and to finance development projects.
An unemployment rate of over 40% continues to be a major problem.
Principal products include bananas, citrus, mangoes, root crops, and coconuts.
In 1988 the economy achieved a 5.6% growth in real GDP on the strength of a boost in construction, higher agricultural production, and growth of the small manufacturing sector based on the soap and garment industries.
In 1989, however, Hurricane Hugo wiped out 70% of the banana crop and affected other economic activity.
Agriculture remains a key sector of the economy.
The principal commercial crop is sugarcane, followed by coffee, cotton, cocoa, and tobacco.
Domestic industry is based on the processing of agricultural products, durable consumer goods, minerals, and chemicals.
Unemployment is officially reported at about 30%, but there is considerable underemployment.
Growth has been uneven because of natural disasters (e.g., a major earthquake in 1987), fluctuations in global oil prices, and government policies designed to curb inflation.
The manufacturing sector, based largely on food and beverage processing, accounts for 18% of GDP and 15% of employment.
Economic losses because of guerrilla sabotage total more than $2.0 billion since 1979.
Gen. (Ret.) Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO, party leader _#_Suffrage: universal adult at age NA _#_Elections: President--last held 25 June 1989 (next to be held 25 June 1996); results--President Brig.
Its economy is based on subsistence agriculture, which accounts for about 45% of GDP, 90% of exports, and 80% of total employment; coffee generates 60% of export earnings.
Over 90% of large-scale industry, but less then 10% of agriculture, is state run.
Exports feature shipments of high-grade wool to the UK and the sale of postage stamps and coins. Rich stocks of fish in the surrounding waters are not presently exploited by the islanders.
So far efforts to establish a domestic fishing industry have been unsuccessful.
In 1987 the government began selling fishing licenses to foreign trawlers operating within the Falklands exclusive fishing zone.
These license fees amount to more than $40 million per year and are a primary source of income for the government.
DAM (since 15 January 1991) _#_Political parties and leaders: two-party ruling coalition--Social Democratic Party, Atli P.
Half the fishing fleet is for sale, and the 22 fish-processing plants work at only half capacity.
TEEGEN; Embassy at 31 Loftus Street, Suva (mailing address is P.
Sugar exports are a major source of foreign exchange and sugar processing accounts for one-third of industrial output. Industry, including sugar milling, contributes 13% to GDP.
Fiji traditionally had earned considerable sums of hard currency from the 250,000 tourists who visited each year.
GDP dropped by 7.8% in 1987 and by another 2.5% in 1988; political uncertainty created a drop in tourism, and the worst drought of the century caused sugar production to fall sharply.
In contrast, sugar and tourism turned in strong performances in 1989, and the economy rebounded vigorously.
Trade is important, with the export of goods representing about 30% of GDP.
Because of the climate, agricultural development is limited to maintaining self-sufficiency in basic commodities.
The economy, which experienced an average of 4.9% annual growth between 1987 and 1989, leveled off in 1990 and is now in a recession facing negative growth in 1991.
As a result, Finland must increase its competitiveness in certain sectors, for example, textiles, foodstuffs, paper, and metals, and has already begun to shift trade westward.
The industrial sector generates about one-quarter of GDP, and the growing services sector has become crucial to the economy.
After sluggish growth during the period 1982-87, the economy expanded at a rapid 3.8% pace in 1988-89.
Besides the French space center at Kourou, fishing and forestry are the most important economic activities, with exports of fish and fish products (mostly shrimp) accounting for more than 60% of total revenue in 1987.
4000, Libreville); telephone 762003 or 762004, 743492 _#_Flag: three equal horizontal bands of green (top), yellow, and blue _*_Economy _#_Overview: The economy, dependent on timber and manganese until the early 1970s, is now dominated by the oil sector.
The three-year slide of Gabon's economy, which began with falling oil prices in 1985, was reversed in 1989 because of a near doubling of oil prices over their 1988 lows.
In 1990 the economy continued to grow, but debt servicing problems are hindering economic advancement.
SALLAH; Chancery at Suite 720, 1030 15th Street NW, Washington DC 20005; telephone (202) 842-1356 or 842-1359; US--Ambassador Arlene RENDER; Embassy at Pipeline Road (Kairaba Avenue), Fajara, Banjul (mailing address is P.
It is one of the world's poorest countries with a per capita income of about $230.
About 75% of the population is engaged in crop production and livestock raising, which contributes 30% to GDP.
The Gambia imports one-third of its food, all fuel, and most manufactured goods.
With respect to negotiations envisaged in the framework agreement, however, it is US policy that a distinction must be made between Jerusalem and the rest of the West Bank because of the city's special status and circumstances.
Unrest in the territory in 1988-91 (intifadah) has raised unemployment and substantially lowered the incomes of the population.
Furthermore, the Persian Gulf crisis dealt a severe blow to the Gaza Strip in 1990 and on into 1991. Worker remittances from the Gulf states have plunged, unemployment has increased, and export revenues have fallen dramatically.
Western Germany has an advanced market economy and is a leading exporter.
It experienced faster-than-projected real growth largely because of demand in eastern Germany for western German goods.
Western Germany has a highly urbanized and skilled population which enjoys excellent living standards, abundant leisure time, and comprehensive social welfare benefits.
Western Germany is relatively poor in natural resources, coal being the most important mineral. Western Germany's world-class companies manufacture technologically advanced goods.
The region's economy is mature: manufacturing and service industries account for the dominant share of economic activity, and raw materials and semimanufactured products constitute a large proportion of imports.
In 1989 manufacturing accounted for 31% of GDP, with other sectors contributing lesser amounts.
In recent years, gross fixed investment has accounted for about 21% of GDP.
In 1990 GDP in the western region was an estimated $16,300 per capita. In contrast, eastern Germany's obsolete command economy, once dominated by smokestack heavy industries, has been undergoing a wrenching change to a market economy.
Industrial production in early 1991 is down 50% from the same period last year, due largely to the slump in domestic demand for eastern German-made goods and the ongoing economic restructuring.
The FRG's legal, social welfare, and economic systems have been extended to the east, but economic restructuring--privatizing industry, establishing clear property rights, clarifying responsibility for environmental clean-up, and removing Communist-era holdovers from management--is proceeding slowly so far, deterring outside investors.
The biggest danger is that soaring unemployment in eastern Germany, which could climb to the 30 to 40% range, could touch off labor disputes or renewed mass relocation to western Germany and erode investor confidence in eastern Germany.
Overall economic activity grew an estimated 4.6% in western Germany in 1990, while dropping roughly 15% in eastern Germany.
Heavily dependent on cocoa, gold, and timber exports, economic growth is threatened by a poor cocoa harvest and higher oil prices in 1991.
Rising inflation--unofficially estimated at 50%--could undermine Ghana's relationships with multilateral lenders.
Civil service wage increases and the cost of peacekeeping forces sent to Liberia are boosting government expenditures and undercutting structural adjustment reforms.
Mitsotakis inherited several severe economic problems from the preceding socialist and caretaker governments, which neglected the runaway budget deficit, a ballooning current account deficit, and accelerating inflation.
With only a two-seat majority in the Chamber of Deputies, Mitsotakis has concentrated on cutting the public-sector payroll, cautiously expanding the tax base, and adopting guidelines for privatizing Greece's loss-ridden state-owned enterprises.
Once the political situation is sorted out, Greece will have to face the challenges posed by the steadily increasing integration of the European Community, including the progressive lowering of trade and investment barriers.
Fishing is still the most important industry, accounting for over 75% of exports and about 25% of the population's income.
Agriculture accounts for about 16% of GDP and 80% of exports and employs 24% of the labor force.
Tourism is the leading foreign exchange earner, followed by agricultural exports.
Manufacturing remains relatively undeveloped, but is expected to grow, given a more favorable private investment climate since 1983.
It is also dependent upon France for large subsidies and imports.
Most manufactured goods and fuel are imported.
ADA (since NA November 1986); Lieutenant Governor Frank F.
Visitors numbered about 900,000 in 1990.
About 60% of the labor force works for the private sector and the rest for government.
Manufacturing accounts for about 15% of GDP and 12% of the labor force.
In 1990 the economy grew by 3.5%, the fourth consecutive year of mild growth.
SMITH, Jr.; Embassy at 2nd Boulevard and 9th Avenue, Conakry (mailing address is B.
The agricultural sector contributes about 40% to GDP and employs more than 80% of the work force, while industry accounts for 27% of GDP.
Agriculture and fishing are the main economic activities, with cashew nuts, peanuts, and palm kernels the primary exports.
Exploitation of known mineral deposits is unlikely at present because of a weak infrastructure and the high cost of development.
The decline resulted from bad weather, labor trouble in the canefields, and flooding and equipment problems in the bauxite industry.
Consumer prices rose about 35% in 1988 and by over 100% in 1989, and the current account deficit widened substantially as sugar and bauxite exports fell.
ADAMS, Jr.; Embassy at Harry Truman Boulevard, Port-au-Prince (mailing address is P.
Agriculture, the most important sector of the economy, accounts for nearly 30% of GDP, employs 62% of the labor force, and produces two-thirds of exports.
Industry, still in its early stages, employs nearly 9% of the labor force, accounts for 15% of GDP, and generates 20% of exports.
The service sectors, including public administration, account for 50% of GDP and employ nearly 20% of the labor force.
Natural resources are limited, and food and raw materials must be imported.
Manufacturing accounts for about 18% of GDP, employs 28% of the labor force, and exports about 90% of its output.
Real GDP growth averaged a remarkable 8% in 1987-88, then slowed to 2.5-3.0% in 1989-90.
Industry accounts for about 40% of GNP and 30% of employment.
About 40% of Hungary's foreign trade is with the USSR and Eastern Europe and a third is with the EC. Low rates of growth reflect the inability of the Soviet-style economy to modernize capital plant and motivate workers.
GNP declined by 1% in 1989 and by an estimated 6% in 1990.
Since 1985 external debt has more than doubled, to over $20 billion.
In recent years Hungary has experimented widely with decentralized and market-oriented enterprises.
The newly democratic government has renounced the Soviet economic growth model and plans to open the economy to wider market forces and to much closer economic relations with Western Europe.
TOMASSON; Chancery at 2022 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 265-6653 through 6655; there is an Icelandic Consulate General in New York; US--Ambassador Charles E.
Narasimha RAO (since 21 June 1991) _#_Political parties and leaders: Congress (I) Party, P.
Narasimha RAO, president; Bharatiya Janata Party, L.
ADVANI; Janata Dal Party, V.
SINGH; Communist Party of India/Marxist (CPI/M), E.
NAMBOODIRIPAD; Communist Party of India (CPI), C.
Rajeswara RAO; Telugu Desam (a regional party in Andhra Pradesh), N.
Industry has benefited from a partial liberalization of controls.
The growth rate of the service sector has also been strong.
Indonesia has extensive natural wealth yet, with a large and rapidly increasing population, it remains a poor country.
GDP growth in 1985-89 averaged about 4%, somewhat short of the more than 5% rate needed to absorb the 2.3 million workers annually entering the labor force.
Agriculture, including forestry and fishing, is an important sector, accounting for 21% of GDP and over 50% of the labor force.
Once the world's largest rice importer, Indonesia is now nearly self-sufficient.
Plantation crops--rubber and palm oil--and textiles and plywood are being encouraged for both export and job generation.
Industrial output now accounts for 30% of GDP based on a supply of diverse natural resources, including crude oil, natural gas, timber, metals, and coal.
Of these, the oil sector dominates the external economy, generating more than 20% of the government's revenues and 40% of export earnings in 1989.
Disruptions from the bitter war with Iraq, massive corruption, mismanagement, demographic pressures, and ideological rigidities have kept economic growth at depressed levels.
Oil accounts for over 90% of export revenues.
GNP probably rose slightly in 1989, considerably short of the 3.2% population growth rate in 1989. Heating oil and gasoline are rationed.
The economy has been dominated by the oil sector, which has provided about 95% of foreign exchange earnings.
In the 1980s financial problems, caused by massive expenditures in the eight-year war with Iran and damage to oil export facilities by Iran, led the government to implement austerity measures and to borrow heavily and later reschedule foreign debt payments.
After the end of hostilities in 1988, oil exports gradually increased with the construction of new pipelines and restoration of damaged facilities.
Agricultural development remained hampered by labor shortages, salinization, and dislocations caused by previous land reform and collectivization programs.
The industrial sector, although accorded high priority by the government, also was under financial constraints.
Iraq's seizure of Kuwait in August 1990, subsequent international economic embargoes, and military actions by an international coalition beginning in January 1991 drastically changed the economic picture.
The government has successfully reduced the rate of inflation from double-digit figures in the late 1970s to 3.3% in 1990.
On 25 April 1982 Israel relinquished control of the Sinai to Egypt.
Despite limited natural resources, Israel has developed its agricultural and industrial sectors on an intensive scale over the past 20 years.
Industry accounts for about 23% of the labor force, agriculture for 5%, and services for most of the balance.
The balance of payments has traditionally been negative, but is offset by large transfer payments and foreign loans.
About half of Israel's $18 billion external government debt is owed to the US, which is its major source for economic and military aid.
To earn needed foreign exchange, Israel must continue to exploit high-technology niches in the international market, such as medical scanning equipment.
Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on 2 August dealt a blow to Israel's economy in 1990.
Higher world oil prices added an estimated $300 million to Israel's 1990 oil import bill, and helped keep the inflation rate at 18% for the year.
Regional tensions and continuing acts of the Palestinian uprising (intifadah)-related violence contributed to a sharp dropoff in tourism--a key source of foreign exchange--to the lowest level since the 1973 Arab-Israeli war.
The country is still divided into a developed industrial north, dominated by small private companies, and an undeveloped agricultural south, dominated by large public enterprises.
Services account for 48% of GDP, industry 34%, agriculture 4%, and public administration 13%.
The economic recovery that began in mid-1983 has continued through 1990, with the economy growing at an annual average rate of 3%.
BROWN; Embassy at 5 Rue Jesse Owens, Abidjan (mailing address is 01 B.
By October 1989 the economic recovery from the hurricane was largely complete and real growth was up about 3% for 1989.
DOI, chairman; Democratic Socialist Party (DSP), Keigo OUCHI, chairman; Japan Communist Party (JCP), K.
Industry, the most important sector of the economy, is heavily dependent on imported raw materials and fuels.
Self-sufficent in rice, Japan must import 50% of its requirements for other grain and fodder crops.
Japan maintains one of the world's largest fishing fleets and accounts for nearly 15% of the global catch.
In 1990 strong investment and consumption spending helped maintain growth at 5.6%.
Inflation remains low at 3.1% despite higher oil prices and rising wages because of a tight labor market.
HAMMAMI; Chancery at 3504 International Drive NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 966-2664; US--Ambassador Roger Gram HARRISON; Embassy on Jebel Amman, Amman (mailing address is P.
Recent years, however, have witnessed a sharp reduction in grant aid from Arab oil-producing countries and a dropoff in worker remittances, with national growth averaging 1-2%.
In mid-1989, the Jordanian Government agreed to implement an IMF austerity program designed to tackle the country's serious economic problems.
The program sought to gradually reduce the government's budget deficit over the next several years and implement badly needed structural reforms in the economy.
In return for agreeing to the IMF program, Jordan was granted IMF standby loans of over $100 million.
Recognizing that it would be unable to cover its debt obligations, the government also began debt rescheduling negotiations with creditors in mid-1989.
The onset of the Gulf crisis in August 1990 forced the government to shelve the IMF program and suspend most debt payments and rescheduling negotiations.
In the meantime, GDP growth in the near term has kept slightly ahead of population--annually averaging 4.9% in the 1986-90 period.
Commercially viable phosphate deposits were exhausted at the time of independence in 1979.
Copra and fish now represent the bulk of production and exports. The economy has fluctuated widely in recent years.
Economic growth during the period 1984-90 averaged approximately 3%.
Output of the extractive industries includes coal, iron ore, magnesite, graphite, copper, zinc, lead, and precious metals. Manufacturing emphasis is centered on heavy industry, with light industry lagging far behind.
Despite the use of high-yielding seed varieties, expansion of irrigation, and the heavy use of fertilizers, North Korea has not yet become self-sufficient in food production.
Four consecutive years of poor harvests, coupled with distribution problems, have led to chronic food shortages.
Real GNP--which grew by 6.7% in 1989 after an average annual growth of over 12% between 1986-88--grew about 9% in 1990.
Labor unrest--which led to substantial wage hikes in 1987-88--was noticeably calmer in 1990, unemployment averaged a low 2.5%, and investment was strong.
Inflation rates, however, are beginning to challenge South Korea's strong economic performance.
Consumer prices rose 8.6%, the highest rate in nine years.
Kuwait has the third-largest oil reserves in the world after Saudi Arabia and Iraq.
Earnings from hydrocarbons generated over 90% of both export and government revenues and contributed about 40% to GDP.
Most of the nonoil sector has traditionally been dependent upon oil-derived government revenues. Iraq's destruction of Kuwait's oil industry during the Gulf war has devastated the economy.
Iraq destroyed or damaged more than 80% of Kuwait's 950 operating oil wells, as well as sabotaging key surface facilities.
SALMON, Jr.; Embassy at Rue Bartholonie, Vientiane (mailing address is B.
Awn had defied the legitimate government and established a separate mini-state within East Beirut after being appointed acting Prime Minister by outgoing President Gemayel in 1988.
The army has deployed from Beirut north along the coast road to Tripoli, southeast into the Shuf mountains, and south to the vicinity of Sidon.
LAHOUD; Chancery at 2560 28th Street NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 939-6300; there are Lebanese Consulates General in Detroit, New York, and Los Angeles; US--Ambassador Ryan C.
CROCKER; Embassy at Antelias, Beirut (mailing address is P.
The battered economy has also been propped up by a financially sound banking system and resilient small- and medium-scale manufacturers.
Gen. LEKHANYA); Head of Government--Chairman of the Military Council Col. Elias Phisoana RAMAEMA (since 30 April 1991) _#_Political parties and leaders: Basotho National Party (BNP), Matete MAJARA (interim leader); Basutoland Congress Party (BCP), Ntsu MOKHEHLE; National Independent Party (NIP), A.
MANYELI; Marematlou Freedom Party (MFP), S.
VAN TONDER; Chancery at 2511 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 797-5 534; US--Ambassador Leonard H.O.
SPEARMAN, Jr.; Embassy at address NA, Maseru (mailing address is P.
Its economy is based on agriculture, light manufacturing, and remittances from laborers employed in South Africa ($153 million in 1989).
The great majority of households gain their livelihoods from subsistence farming and migrant labor. Manufacturing depends largely on farm products to support the milling, canning, leather, and jute industries; other industries include textile, clothing, and light engineering.
Industry's share of GDP rose from 6% in 1982 to 15% in 1989.
JOHNSON and Charles TAYLOR are challenging the Sawyer government's legitimacy while observing a tenuous cease fire; the former president, Gen. Dr. Samuel Kanyon DOE, was ousted and killed on 9 September 1990 in a coup led by Prince Y.
Expatriate businessmen fled the country, taking capital and expertise with them. Many will not return.
Richly endowed with water, mineral resources, forests, and a climate favorable to agriculture, Liberia had been a producer and exporter of basic products, while local manufacturing, mainly foreign owned, had been small in scope.
Since 1980, however, the sharp drop in oil prices and the resulting decline in export revenues have adversely affected economic development.
The nonoil industrial and construction sectors, which account for about 22% of GDP, have expanded from processing mostly agricultural products to include petrochemicals, iron, steel, and aluminum.
Although agriculture accounts for less than 5% of GNP, it employs 18% of the labor force.
The sale of postage stamps to collectors is estimated at $10 million annually.
Such companies, incorporated solely for tax purposes, provide 30% of state revenues.
During the past decade, growth in the financial sector has more than compensated for the decline in steel.
Efforts to diversify have spawned other small industries--toys, artificial flowers, and electronics.
The tourist sector has accounted for roughly 25% of GDP, and the clothing industry has provided about two-thirds of export earnings. Macau depends on China for most of its food, fresh water, and energy imports.
Agriculture, including fishing and forestry, is the mainstay of the economy, accounting for over 40% of GDP, employing about 80% of the labor force, and contributing to more than 70% of total export earnings.
Industry is largely confined to the processing of agricultural products and textile manufacturing; in 1990 it accounted for only 16% of GDP and employed 3% of the labor force.
The economy is predominately agricultural and operates under a relatively free enterprise environment, with about 90% of the population living in rural areas.
Agriculture accounts for 40% of GDP and 90% of export revenues.
After two years of weak performance, economic growth improved significantly in 1988-90 as a result of good weather and a broadly based economic adjustment effort by the government.
The economy depends on substantial inflows of economic assistance from the IMF, the World Bank, and individual donor nations.
Inflation remained low as unemployment stood at 6% of the labor force and as the government followed prudent fiscal/monetary policies.
The country is not self-sufficient in food, and some of the rural population subsists at the poverty level.
Fishing is the largest industry, employing 25% of the work force and accounting for over 60% of exports; it is also an important source of government revenue.
In 1988 industry accounted for about 5% of GDP.
GELBER; Embassy at Rue Rochester NY and Rue Mohamed V., Bamako (mailing address is B.
About 10% of the population live as nomads and some 80% of the labor force is engaged in agriculture and fishing.
NOVETZKE; Embassy at 2nd Floor, Development House, Saint Anne Street, Floriana, Valletta (mailing address is P.
Manufacturing accounts for about 27% of GDP, with the electronics and textile industries major contributors.
In 1989 inflation was held to a low 0.9%.
KENDALL; Chancery at 2433 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 234-5414; US--Ambassador William BODDE, Jr.; Embassy at NA address (mailing address is P.
A few cattle ranches supply the domestic meat market. Small-scale industry is limited to handicrafts, fish processing, and copra.
ROBINSON; Consulate General at 14 Rue Blenac, Fort-de-France (mailing address is B.
561, Fort-de-France 97206); telephone [590] 63-13-03 _#_Flag: the flag of France is used _*_Economy _#_Overview: The economy is based on sugarcane, bananas, tourism, and light industry.
Agriculture accounts for about 12% of GDP and the small industrial sector for 10%.
Banana exports are increasing, going mostly to France.
In 1986 per capita GDP was relatively high at $6,000.
Mauritania has extensive deposits of iron ore that account for almost 50% of total exports.
The decline in world demand for this ore, however, has led to cutbacks in production.
The country's first deepwater port opened near Nouakchott in 1986.
In recent years, the droughts, the conflict with Senegal, rising energy costs, and economic mismanagement have resulted in a substantial buildup of foreign debt.
Sugarcane is grown on about 90% of the cultivated land area and accounts for 32% of export earnings.
NEGROPONTE, Jr.; Embassy at Paseo de la Reforma 305, 06500 Mexico, D.F. (mailing address is P.
Growth in national output, however, appears to be recovering, rising from 1.4% in 1988 to 3.9% in 1990. The US is Mexico's major trading partner, accounting for two-thirds of its exports and imports.
The government, in consultation with international economic agencies, is implementing programs to stabilize the economy and foster growth.
MAREHALAU; Embassy at 706 G Street SE, Washington DC 20003; telephone (202) 544-2640; US--Ambassador Aurelia BRAZEAL; Embassy at address NA, Kolonia (mailing address is P.
The state has no income tax and low business taxes and thrives as a tax haven both for individuals who have established residence and for foreign companies that have set up businesses and offices.
LAKE; Deputy Chief of Mission Michael J.
The mining and processing of coal, copper, molybdenum, tin, tungsten, and gold account for a large part of industrial production.
In early 1991 the Mongolian leadership was struggling with severe economic dislocations, mainly attributable to chaotic economic conditions in the USSR, by far Mongolia's leading trade and development partner.
For example, the government doubled most prices in January 1991, and industrial production dropped 10% in the first quarter of 1991.
Agriculture accounted for about 4% of GDP and industry 10%.
Michael USSERY; Embassy at 2 Avenue de Marrakech, Rabat (mailing address is P.
In addition, a dramatic increase in worker remittances, increased Arab donor aid, and generous debt rescheduling agreements helped ease foreign payments pressures.
On the down side, higher oil import costs fueled inflation.
FRIEDMAN, Jr.; Embassy at Avenida Kenneth Kuanda, 193 Maputo (mailing address is P.
Mining accounts for almost 30% of GDP.
Namibia is the fourth-largest exporter of nonfuel minerals in Africa and the world's fifth-largest producer of uranium.
Namibia also produces large quantities of lead, zinc, tin, silver, and tungsten, and it has substantial resources of coal.
Naryan SINGH; Communist--Communist Party of Nepal/United Marxist and Leninist (CPN/UML), Man Mohan ADIKHARY; United People's Front (UPF), N.
Real growth averaged 4% in the 1980s until FY89, when it plunged to 1.5% because of a trade/transit dispute with India.
Though the impasse is over, political turmoil and inflated energy costs will probably constrain growth to under 4%.
Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, providing a livelihood for over 90% of the population and accounting for 60% of GDP.
Industrial activity is limited, mainly involving the processing of agricultural produce (jute, sugarcane, tobacco, and grain).
Production of textiles and carpets has expanded recently and accounted for 87% of foreign exchange earnings in FY89. Apart from agricultural land and forests, the only other exploitable natural resources are mica, hydropower, and tourism.
Agricultural production in the late 1980s grew by about 5%, compared with a population growth of 2.6%.
Industrial activity provides about 25% of GDP and is led by the food-processing, oil-refining, and metalworking industries.
Winklaar; Democratic Party of Bonaire (PDB), John Evert (Jopie) ABRAHAM; New Force, Rudy ELLIS; Sint Maarten--Democratic Party of Sint Maarten (DP-St.M), Claude WATHEY; Patriotic Movement of Sint Maarten (SPM), Romeo PAPLOPHLET; Sint Eustatius--Democratic Party of Sint Eustatius (DP-St.E), Albert K.
WILKINSON; Consulate General at Sint Anna Boulevard 19, Willemstad, Curacao (mailing address P.
The islands enjoy a high per capita income and a well-developed infrastructure compared with other countries in the region.
In recent years the economy has suffered because of depressed international demand for nickel, the principal source of export earnings.
NEWMAN; Embassy at 29 Fitzherbert Terrace, Thorndon, Wellington (mailing address is P.
External debt is one of the highest in the world on a per capita basis.
CUNDIFF; Embassy at Avenue des Ambassades, Niamey (mailing address is B.
The economy also depends heavily on exploitation of large uranium deposits.
Uranium production grew rapidly in the mid-1970s, but tapered off in the early 1980s, when world prices declined.
In 1990, despite rising oil prices and a sharp drop in inflation, performance remained slack with continuing underutilization of industrial capacity and a second year of relatively weak agricultural performance.
Agricultural production was up only 4.2% in 1990, still below the 1987 level. Industrial output showed a 7.2% increase, but remained below the 1985 level.
Government efforts to reduce Nigeria's dependence on oil exports and to sustain noninflationary growth have fallen short due to inadequate new investment funds.
Government expenditures regularly exceed revenues, with the shortfall made up by grants from New Zealand--the grants are used to pay wages to public employees.
The agricultural sector consists mainly of subsistence gardening, although some cash crops are grown for export. Industry consists primarily of small factories to process passion fruit, lime oil, honey, and coconut cream.
The sale of postage stamps to foreign collectors is an important source of revenue.
The number of visitors has increased steadily over the years and reached 29,000 in FY89.
Tagpochu on Saipan) _#_Natural resources: arable land, fish _#_Land use: arable land 1%; permanent crops NA%; meadows and pastures 19%; forest and woodland NA%; other NA% _#_Environment: Mt.
DeLeon GUERRERO (since NA 1990); Lieutenant Governor Benjamin T.
Since 1975 exploitation of large crude oil and natural gas reserves has helped maintain high growth; for the past five years growth has averaged 4.1%, the fourth-highest among OECD countries.
Growth slackened in 1987-88 partially because of the sharp drop in world oil prices, but picked up again in 1989.
BOEHM; Embassy at address NA, Muscat (mailing address is P.
Petroleum accounts for nearly all export earnings, about 80% of government revenues, and roughly 40% of GDP.
Box 6028, Koror, Republic of Palau 96940); telephone 160-680-920 or 990 _#_Flag: light blue with a large yellow disk (representing the moon) shifted slightly to the hoist side _*_Economy _#_Overview: The economy consists primarily of subsistence agriculture and fishing.
Late in 1990, the IMF suspended assistance to Pakistan because the government failed to follow through on deficit reforms.
Political stability prompted greater business confidence and consumer demand, leading to increased production by the agricultural, commercial, manufacturing, construction, and utilities sectors.
FERRAND; Embassy at Armit Street, Port Moresby (mailing address is P.
Agriculture provides a subsistence livelihood for 85% of the population.
Paraguay has no known significant mineral or petroleum resources but does have a large hydropower potential.
During 1982-86 real GDP fell in three of five years, inflation jumped to an annual rate of 32%, and foreign debt rose.
Factors responsible for the erratic behavior of the economy were the completion of the Itaipu hydroelectric dam, bad weather for crops, and weak international commodity prices for agricultural exports.
In 1987 the economy experienced a minor recovery because of improved weather conditions and stronger international prices for key agricultural exports.
The recovery continued through 1990, on the strength of bumper crops in 1988-89.
QUAINTON; Embassy at the corner of Avenida Inca Garcilaso de la Vega and Avenida Espana, Lima (mailing address is P.
In the 1980s the economy suffered from hyperinflation, declining per capita output, and mounting external debt.
Peru was shut off from IMF and World Bank support in the mid-1980s because of its huge debt arrears.
An austerity program implemented shortly after the Fujimori government took office in July 1990 contributed to a third consecutive yearly contraction of economic activity, but was able to generate a small recovery in the last quarter.
After a burst of inflation as the program eliminated government price subsidies, monthly price increases eased to the single-digit level for the first time since mid-1988.
After two consecutive years of economic contraction (1984 and 1985), the economy has since 1986 had positive growth, although in 1990 the economy slowed considerably from 1989.
The agricultural sector together with forestry and fishing, plays an important role in the economy, employing about 45% of the work force and providing almost 30% of GDP.
The Philippines is the world's largest exporter of coconuts and coconut products.
Manufacturing contributes about 25% of GDP.
Bartering is an important part of the economy.
GNP dropped by 2.0% in 1989 and by a further 8.9% in 1990.
The inflation rate, after falling sharply from the 1982 peak of 100% to 22% in 1986, rose to a galloping rate of 640% in 1989 and dropped back to 250% in 1990.
Agricultural products and coal are among the biggest hard currency earners, but manufactures are increasing in importance.
Poland, with its hard currency debt of $48.5 billion, is severely limited in its ability to import much-needed hard currency goods.
The government moved to eliminate subsidies, free prices, make the zloty convertible, and, in general, halt the hyperinflation.
These financial measures were accompanied by plans to privatize the economy in stages.
While inflation fell to an annual rate of 77.5% by November of 1990, the rise in unemployment and the drop in living standards have led to growing popular discontent and to a change of government in January 1991.
The new government is continuing the previous government's economic program, while trying to speed privatization and to better cushion the populace from the dislocations associated with reform.
The economy grew by 14% during the 1987-89 period, largely because of strong domestic consumption and investment spending.
Encouraged by duty-free access to the US and by tax incentives, US firms have invested heavily in Puerto Rico since the 1950s.
Tourism has traditionally been an important source of income for the island.
The economy is slowly recovering from the disruptions caused by Hurricane Hugo in September 1989.
HAMBLEY; Embassy at 149 Ali Bin Ahmed St., Farig Bin Omran (opposite the television station), Doha (mailing address is P.
The government has been pushing the development of a tourist industry to relieve high unemployment, which recently amounted to one-third of the labor force.
The white and Indian communities are substantially better off than other segments of the population, adding to the social tensions generated by poverty and unemployment.
The year 1990 witnessed about a 20% drop in industrial production because of energy and input shortages and labor unrest.
In recent years the agricultural sector has had to contend with drought, mismanagement, and shortages of inputs.
A drought in 1990 contributed to a lackluster harvest, a problem compounded by corruption and a poor distribution system.
It has instituted moderate land reforms, with close to one-half of cropland now in private hands, and it has allowed changes in prices for private agricultural output.
Also, the new regime is permitting the establishment of private enterprises, largely in services, handicrafts, and small-scale industry.
New laws providing for the privatization of large state firms have been passed.
However, most of the early privatization will involve converting state firms into joint-stock companies.
The selling of shares to the public has not yet been worked out.
So far, the government does not seem willing to adopt a thoroughgoing market system, that is, there is great caution in decontrolling prices because of public opposition.
Gen. Juvenal HABYARIMANA (since 5 July 1973) _#_Political parties and leaders: only party--National Revolutionary Movement for Development (MRND), Maj.
Gen. Juvenal HABYARIMANA; note--the MRND is officially a development movement, not a party _#_Suffrage: universal adult, exact age NA _#_Elections: President--last held 19 December 1988 (next to be held December 1993); results--President Maj.
FLATEN; Embassy at Boulevard de la Revolution, Kigali (mailing address is B.
The industrial sector in Rwanda is small, contributing only 16% to GDP.
Manufacturing focuses mainly on the processing of agricultural products.
The Rwandan economy remains dependent on coffee exports and foreign aid, with no relief in sight.
Weak international prices since 1986 have caused the economy to contract and per capita GDP to decline.
A structural adjustment program with the World Bank began in October 1990.
STIMSON (since 1987) _#_Political parties and leaders: Saint Helena Labor Party, G.
Saint Lucia also possesses an expanding industrial base supported by foreign investment in manufacturing and other activities, such as in data processing.
The economy has been declining, however, because the number of ships stopping at Saint Pierre has dropped steadily over the years.
In March 1989, an agreement between France and Canada set fish quotas for Saint Pierre's trawlers fishing in Canadian and Canadian-claimed waters for three years.
The agreement settles a longstanding dispute that had virtually brought fish exports to a halt. The islands are heavily subsidized by France.
The services sector, based mostly on a growing tourist industry, is also important.
The economy continues to have a high unemployment rate of 30% because of an overdependence on the weather-plagued banana crop as a major export earner.
FREEMAN, Jr.; Embassy at Collector Road M, Diplomatic Quarter, Riyadh (mailing address is P.
About 40% of the total cultivated land is used to grow peanuts, an important export crop. The principal economic resource is fishing, which brought in about $200 million or about 25% of total foreign exchange earnings in 1987.
MARENGO; Chancery (temporary) at 820 Second Avenue, Suite 201, New York, NY 10017; telephone (212) 687-9766; US--Ambassador James B.
Subsistence agriculture dominates the economy, generating about one-third of GDP and employing about two-thirds of the working population.
NATHAN; Chancery at 1824 R Street NW, Washington DC 20009; telephone (202) 667-7555; US--Ambassador Robert D.
Recovery was strong based on rising demand for Singapore's products in OECD countries and improved competitiveness of domestic manufactures.
The economy grew 8.3% in 1990.
BISHOP; Embassy at K-7, AFGOI Road, Mogadishu (mailing address is P.
Nomads and seminomads who are dependent upon livestock for their livelihoods make up more than half of the population.
DE KLERK (since 13 September 1989) _#_Political parties and leaders: white political parties and leaders--National Party (NP), Frederik W.
DE KLERK (majority party); Conservative Party (CP), Dr. Andries P.
The initial reforms have featured greater authority for enterprise managers over prices, wages, product mix, investment, sources of supply, and customers.
The regime has vacillated among a series of ambitious economic policy prescriptions put forth by leading economists and political leaders.
The plans vary from proposals for (a) quick marketization of the economy; (b) gradual marketization; (c) a period of retrenchment to ensure a stable base for future marketization; and (d) a return to disciplined central planning and allocation.
The economy, caught between two systems, is suffering from even greater mismatches between what is being produced and what would serve the best interests of enterprises and households.
Meanwhile, the seething nationality problems have been dislocating regional patterns of economic specialization and pose a further major threat to growth prospects over the next few years.
Official Soviet statistics report GNP fell by 2% in 1990, but the actual decline was substantially greater.
With annual increases in real GNP averaging about 5% in the 1987-90 period, Spain has been the fastest growing member of the EC.
Inflation moderated to 4.8% in 1988, but an overheated economy caused inflation to reach almost 7% in 1989-90.
SILVA; Communist Party/Beijing (CP/B), N.
CREEKMORE, Jr.; Embassy at 210 Galle Road, Colombo 3 (mailing address is P.
The plantation crops of tea, rubber, and coconuts provide about 35% of export earnings.
The economy has been plagued by high rates of unemployment since the late 1970s.
CHEEK; Embassy at Shar'ia Ali Abdul Latif, Khartoum (mailing address is P.
Sluggish economic performance over the past decade, attributable largely to declining annual rainfall, has reduced levels of per capita income and consumption.
A high foreign debt and huge arrearages continue to cause difficulties.
UDENHOUT; Chancery at Suite 108, 4301 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 244-7488 or 7490 through 7492; there is a Surinamese Consulate General in Miami; US--Ambassador John (Jack) P.
LEONARD; Embassy at Dr. Sophie Redmonstraat 129, Paramaribo (mailing address is P.
These problems have created high inflation, high unemployment, widespread black market activity, and a bad climate for foreign investment.
Although US, UK, Dutch, and Swedish coal companies have mined in the past, the only companies still mining are Norwegian and Soviet. Each company mines about half a million tons of coal annually.
ROGERS; Embassy at Central Bank Building, Warner Street, Mbabane (mailing address is P.
Mining has declined in importance in recent years; high-grade iron ore deposits were depleted in 1978, and health concerns cut world demand for asbestos.
Exports of sugar and forestry products are the main earners of hard currency.
It has essentially full employment, a modern distribution system, excellent internal and external communications, and a skilled labor force.
For some observers, the Swedish model has succeeded in making economic efficiency and social egalitarianism complementary, rather than competitive, goals.
Others argue that the Swedish model is on the verge of collapsing by pointing to the serious economic problems Sweden faces in 1991: high inflation and absenteeism, growing unemployment and deficits, and declining international competitiveness.
In 1990, to improve the economy, the government approved a mandate for Sweden to seek EC membership and an austerity and privatization package and implemented a major tax reform.
Two bright spots: a sizable number of villagers have benefited from land redistribution, electrification, and other rural development programs; and a recent find of light crude oil has enabled Syria to cut oil imports.
A long-term concern is the additional drain of upstream Euphrates water by Turkey when its vast dam and irrigation projects are completed toward the end of the 1990s.
The increasingly sophisticated manufacturing sector benefited from export-oriented investment, but the agricultural sector contracted 2%, primarily because of weaker demand in Thailand's major overseas markets for commodities such as rice.
The trade deficit almost doubled in 1990, to $9 billion, but earnings from tourism ($4.7 billion), remittances, and net capital inflows helped keep the balance of payments in surplus.
The government has followed fairly sound fiscal and monetary policies, aided by increased tax receipts from the fast-moving economy.
In 1990 the government approved new projects--especially for telecommunications and roads--needed to refurbish the country's now overtaxed infrastructure.
KIRBY; Embassy at Rue Pelletier Caventou and Rue Vauban, Lome (mailing address is B.
In the industrial sector phosphate mining is by far the most important activity, with phosphate exports accounting for about 40% of total foreign exchange earnings.
Togo serves as a regional commercial and trade center.
The people must rely on aid from New Zealand to maintain public services, annual aid being substantially greater than GDP.
The principal sources of revenue come from sales of copra, postage stamps, souvenir coins, and handicrafts.
The country must import a high proportion of its food, mainly from New Zealand.
The manufacturing sector accounts for only 11% of GDP.
Box 752, Port-of-Spain); telephone (809) 622-6372 through 6376, 6176 _#_Flag: red with a white-edged black diagonal band from the upper hoist side _*_Economy _#_Overview: Trinidad and Tobago's petroleum-based economy began to emerge from a lengthy depression in 1990.
The economy fell sharply through most of the 1980s, largely because of the decline in oil prices. This sector accounts for 80% of export earnings and more than 25% of GDP.
The government, in response to the oil revenue loss, pursued a series of austerity measures that pushed the unemployment rate as high as 22% in 1988.
The economy showed signs of recovery in 1990, however, helped along by rising oil prices.
Agriculture employs only about 11% of the labor force and produces about 3% of GDP.
Continued high inflation and unemployment have eroded popular support for the government, however, and forced Tunis to slow the pace of economic reform.
Agriculture remains the most important economic sector, employing about 55% of the labor force, accounting for almost 20% of GDP, and contributing about 20% to exports.
The country has no known mineral resources and few exports.
Coffee is the major export crop and accounts for the bulk of export revenues.
Industry is a mixture of public and private enterprises, employing about 27% of the work force and generating 22% of GDP.
In mid-1990 the economy fell into recession after eight years of strong economic expansion, which had raised national output by one quarter.
Britain's inflation rate, which has been consistently well above those of her major trading partners, is expected to decline in 1991.
Between 1986 and 1990 unemployment fell from 11% to about 6%, but it is now rising rapidly because of the economic slowdown.
The Federated States of Micronesia signed a Compact of Free Association with the US (effective 3 November 1986).
In 1989 the economy enjoyed its seventh successive year of substantial growth, the longest in peacetime history.
The expansion featured moderation in wage and consumer price increases and a steady reduction in unemployment to 5.2% of the labor force.
In 1988 real GDP grew by only 0.5% and in 1989 by 1.5%.
In 1990, despite healthy exports and an improved current account, domestic growth remained weak because of government concentration on the external sector, adverse weather conditions, and prolonged strikes.
A small light industry sector caters to the local market.
Oil was discovered off the southern coast in 1986 with production reaching 54,000 b/d in 1990 and expected to increase in the years ahead.
Following the end of the war in 1975, heavy-handed government measures undermined efforts at an efficient merger of the agricultural resources of the south and the industrial resources of the north.
Inflation, although down from recent triple-digit levels, is still a major weakness and is showing signs of accelerating upwards again.
Per capita output is among the world's lowest.
The manufacturing sector consists of textile, electronics, pharmaceutical, and watch assembly plants.
The agricultural sector is small, most food being imported. International business and financial services are a small but growing component of the economy.
About 4% of the population is employed in government. Revenues come from French Government subsidies, licensing of fishing rights to Japan and South Korea, import taxes, and remittances from expatriate workers in New Caledonia.
It is US policy that the final status of the West Bank will be determined by negotiations among the concerned parties.
A major share of GNP is derived from remittances of workers employed in Israel and neighboring Gulf states but remittances from the Gulf dropped dramatically in the wake of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in August 1990.
The technologically advanced areas--North America, Japan, and Western Europe--together account for 67% of the gross world product (GWP) of $20.9 trillion; these developed areas grew in the aggregate at 2.3% in 1990.
In contrast, output in the USSR and Eastern Europe fell an average of 5.2%; these countries account for 15% of GWP.
Experience in the developing countries continued mixed, with the newly industrializing economies generally maintaining their rapid growth, and many others struggling with debt, rampant inflation, and inadequate investment.
This third group contributed 18% of GWP and grew on average 2.3% in 1990; output in this group is probably understated because of lack of data and the method of calculation used.
The year 1990 witnessed continued political and economic upheavals in the USSR and Eastern Europe, which are in between systems, lacking both the rough discipline of the command economy and the institutions of the market economy.
DUNBAR; Embassy at Dhahr Himyar Zone, Sheraton Hotel District, Sanaa (mailing address is P.
Box 22347 Sanaa, Republic of Yemen or Sanaa--Department of State, Washington, D.
Future economic development depends heavily on Western-assisted development of promising oil resources.
South Yemen's willingness to merge stemmed partly from the steady decline in Soviet economic support. North--The low level of domestic industry and agriculture have made northern Yemen dependent on imports for virtually all of its essential needs.
Large trade deficits have been made up for by remittances from Yemenis working abroad and foreign aid.
Once self-sufficient in food production, northern Yemen has been a major importer.
Land once used for export crops--cotton, fruit, and vegetables--has been turned over to growing qat, a mildly narcotic shrub chewed by Yemenis that has no significant export market.
Oil export revenues started flowing in late 1987 and boosted 1988 earnings by about $800 million. South--This has been one of the poorest Arab countries, with a per capita GNP of about $500.
A shortage of natural resources, a widely dispersed population, and an arid climate have made economic development difficult.
The economy had been organized along socialist lines, dominated by the public sector.
This program brought hyperinflation to a halt and encouraged a rise in foreign investment.
Since June 1990, however, inflation has rebounded and threatens to rise further in 1991.
Estimated annual inflation for 1990 is 164%.
Other huge problems remain: rising unemployment, the low quality of industrial output, and striking differences in income between the poorer southern regions and the comparatively well-off northern areas.
The country's chronic economic problems worsened in 1990, with copper production down 20% to a 20-year low, inflation near 250% compared with 100% in 1987-89, and IMF and most World Bank support suspended until the institution of agreed-on changes.
Agriculture, a key sector of the economy, employs 75% of the population but generates under 25% of GDP.
The main potential for economic development has been the extractive industries.
LUSAKA; Chancery at 2419 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington DC 20008; telephone (202) 265-9717 through 9721; US--Ambassador Gordon L.
STREET; Embassy at corner of Independence Avenue and United Nations Avenue, Lusaka (mailing address is P.
In 1990 real GDP stood only slightly higher than that of 10 years before, while an annual population growth of more than 3% has brought a decline in per capita GDP of 25% during the same period.
The manufacturing sector, based on agriculture and mining, produces a variety of goods and contributes 35% to GDP.
Agriculture contributes about 4% to GNP, down from 35% in 1952.
Spellings are not necessarily those approved by the United States Board on Geographic Names (BGN).
Then another month to convert to something we could massage with our favorite 486 in DOS.
After that it was only a matter of days to get it into this shape you will see below.
Such resting found the sole Of unblest feet.
Be it so, since he Who now is sovereign can dispose and bid What shall be right: farthest from him is best Whom reason hath equalled, force hath made supreme Above his equals.
Farewell, happy fields, Where joy for ever dwells!
Him the Ammonite Worshiped in Rabba and her watery plain, In Argob and in Basan, to the stream Of utmost Arnon.
After these appeared A crew who, under names of old renown- Osiris, Isis, Orus, and their train- With monstrous shapes and sorceries abused Fanatic Egypt and her priests to seek Their wandering gods disguised in brutish forms Rather than human.
Thus they, Breathing united force with fixed thought, Moved on in silence to soft pipes that charmed Their painful steps o'er the burnt soil.
And now Advanced in view they stand-a horrid front Of dreadful length and dazzling arms, in guise Of warriors old, with ordered spear and shield, Awaiting what command their mighty Chief Had to impose.
He through the armed files Darts his experienced eye, and soon traverse The whole battalion views-their order due, Their visages and stature as of gods; Their number last he sums.
Thus far these beyond Compare of mortal prowess, yet observed Their dread Commander.
He, above the rest In shape and gesture proudly eminent, Stood like a tower.
Darkened so, yet shone Above them all th' Archangel: but his face Deep scars of thunder had intrenched, and care Sat on his faded cheek, but under brows Of dauntless courage, and considerate pride Waiting revenge.
O Powers Matchless, but with th' Almighty!-and that strife Was not inglorious, though th' event was dire, As this place testifies, and this dire change, Hateful to utter.
But these thoughts Full counsel must mature.
Peace is despaired; For who can think submission?
War, then, war Open or understood, must be resolved." He spake; and, to confirm his words, outflew Millions of flaming swords, drawn from the thighs Of mighty Cherubim; the sudden blaze Far round illumined Hell.
Thither, winged with speed, A numerous brigade hastened: as when bands Of pioneers, with spade and pickaxe armed, Forerun the royal camp, to trench a field, Or cast a rampart.
By him first Men also, and by his suggestion taught, Ransacked the centre, and with impious hands Rifled the bowels of their mother Earth For treasures better hid.
Soon had his crew Opened into the hill a spacious wound, And digged out ribs of gold.
Let none admire That riches grow in Hell; that soil may best Deserve the precious bane.
Not Babylon Nor great Alcairo such magnificence Equalled in all their glories, to enshrine Belus or Serapis their gods, or seat Their kings, when Egypt with Assyria strove In wealth and luxury.
The hasty multitude Admiring entered; and the work some praise, And some the architect.
Their summons called From every band and squared regiment By place or choice the worthiest: they anon With hundreds and with thousands trooping came Attended.
But far within, And in their own dimensions like themselves, The great Seraphic Lords and Cherubim In close recess and secret conclave sat, A thousand demi-gods on golden seats, Frequent and full.
Who but felt of late, When the fierce foe hung on our broken rear Insulting, and pursued us through the Deep, With what compulsion and laborious flight We sunk thus low?
Th' ascent is easy, then; Th' event is feared!
Should we again provoke Our stronger, some worse way his wrath may find To our destruction, if there be in Hell Fear to be worse destroyed!
The towers of Heaven are filled With armed watch, that render all access Impregnable: oft on the bordering Deep Encamp their legions, or with obscure wing Scout far and wide into the realm of Night, Scorning surprise.
Thus repulsed, our final hope Is flat despair: we must exasperate Th' Almighty Victor to spend all his rage; And that must end us; that must be our cure- To be no more.
Sad cure! for who would lose, Though full of pain, this intellectual being, Those thoughts that wander through eternity, To perish rather, swallowed up and lost In the wide womb of uncreated Night, Devoid of sense and motion?
And who knows, Let this be good, whether our angry Foe Can give it, or will ever?
Wherefore cease we, then?" Say they who counsel war; "we are decreed, Reserved, and destined to eternal woe; Whatever doing, what can we suffer more, What can we suffer worse?
Is this, then, worst- Thus sitting, thus consulting, thus in arms? What when we fled amain, pursued and struck With Heaven's afflicting thunder, and besought The Deep to shelter us?
This Hell then seemed A refuge from those wounds.
Or when we lay Chained on the burning lake?
This would be worse. War, therefore, open or concealed, alike My voice dissuades; for what can force or guile With him, or who deceive his mind, whose eye Views all things at one view?
Better these than worse, By my advice; since fate inevitable Subdues us, and omnipotent decree, The Victor's will.
To suffer, as to do, Our strength is equal; nor the law unjust That so ordains.
This must be our task In Heaven, this our delight.
How wearisome Eternity so spent in worship paid To whom we hate!
Our greatness will appear Then most conspicuous when great things of small, Useful of hurtful, prosperous of adverse, We can create, and in what place soe'er Thrive under evil, and work ease out of pain Through labour and endurance.
All things invite To peaceful counsels, and the settled state Of order, how in safety best we may Compose our present evils, with regard Of what we are and where, dismissing quite All thoughts of war.
Deep on his front engraven Deliberation sat, and public care; And princely counsel in his face yet shone, Majestic, though in ruin.
What if we find Some easier enterprise?
This would surpass Common revenge, and interrupt his joy In our confusion, and our joy upraise In his disturbance; when his darling sons, Hurled headlong to partake with us, shall curse Their frail original, and faded bliss- Faded so soon!
Advise if this be worth Attempting, or to sit in darkness here Hatching vain empires.
But their spite still serves His glory to augment.
What strength, what art, can then Suffice, or what evasion bear him safe, Through the strict senteries and stations thick Of Angels watching round?
But all sat mute, Pondering the danger with deep thoughts; and each In other's countenance read his own dismay, Astonished.
Empyreal Thrones! With reason hath deep silence and demur Seized us, though undismayed.
This enterprise None shall partake with me.
But they Dreaded not more th' adventure than his voice Forbidding; and at once with him they rose. Their rising all at once was as the sound Of thunder heard remote.
Thus roving on In confused march forlorn, th' adventurous bands, With shuddering horror pale, and eyes aghast, Viewed first their lamentable lot, and found No rest.
At last appear Hell-bounds, high reaching to the horrid roof, And thrice threefold the gates; three folds were brass, Three iron, three of adamantine rock, Impenetrable, impaled with circling fire, Yet unconsumed.
Before the gates there sat On either side a formidable Shape. The one seemed woman to the waist, and fair, But ended foul in many a scaly fold, Voluminous and vast-a serpent armed With mortal sting.
On th' other side, Incensed with indignation, Satan stood Unterrified, and like a comet burned, That fires the length of Ophiuchus huge In th' arctic sky, and from his horrid hair Shakes pestilence and war.
What fury, O son, Possesses thee to bend that mortal dart Against thy father's head?
Meanwhile war arose, And fields were fought in Heaven: wherein remained (For what could else?) to our Almighty Foe Clear victory; to our part loss and rout Through all the Empyrean.
On a sudden open fly, With impetuous recoil and jarring sound, Th' infernal doors, and on their hinges grate Harsh thunder, that the lowest bottom shook Of Erebus.
To whom these most adhere He rules a moment: Chaos umpire sits, And by decision more embroils the fray By which he reigns: next him, high arbiter, Chance governs all.
At last his sail-broad vans He spread for flight, and, in the surging smoke Uplifted, spurns the ground; thence many a league, As in a cloudy chair, ascending rides Audacious; but, that seat soon failing, meets A vast vacuity.
Admiration seized All Heaven, what this might mean, and whither tend, Wondering; but soon th' Almighty thus replied: O thou in Heaven and Earth the only peace Found out for mankind under wrath, O thou My sole complacence!
O unexampled love, Love no where to be found less than Divine! Hail, Son of God, Saviour of Men!
Why should their Lord Envy them that?
Can it be sin to know? Can it be death?
And do they only stand By ignorance?
In shadier bower More sacred and sequestered, though but feigned, Pan or Sylvanus never slept, nor Nymph Nor Faunus haunted.
If I must contend, said he, Best with the best, the sender, not the sent, Or all at once; more glory will be won, Or less be lost.
Now drew they nigh The western point, where those half-rounding guards Just met, and closing stood in squadron joined, A waiting next command.
To whom their Chief, Gabriel, from the front thus called aloud. O friends!
Lives there who loves his pain! Who would not, finding way, break loose from Hell, Though thither doomed!
As when by night the glass Of Galileo, less assured, observes Imagined lands and regions in the moon: Or pilot, from amidst the Cyclades Delos or Samos first appearing, kens A cloudy spot.
Like Maia's son he stood, And shook his plumes, that heavenly fragrance filled The circuit wide.
A while discourse they hold; No fear lest dinner cool; when thus began Our author.
But say, What meant that caution joined, If ye be found Obedient?
Can we want obedience then To him, or possibly his love desert, Who formed us from the dust and placed us here Full to the utmost measure of what bliss Human desires can seek or apprehend? To whom the Angel.
Son of Heaven and Earth, Attend!
What sleep can close Thy eye-lids? and rememberest what decree Of yesterday, so late hath passed the lips Of Heaven's Almighty.
Thou to me thy thoughts Wast wont, I mine to thee was wont to impart; Both waking we were one; how then can now Thy sleep dissent?
New laws thou seest imposed; New laws from him who reigns, new minds may raise In us who serve, new counsels to debate What doubtful may ensue: More in this place To utter is not safe.
On to the sacred hill They led him high applauded, and present Before the seat supreme; from whence a voice, From midst a golden cloud, thus mild was heard. Servant of God.
All Heaven Resounded; and had Earth been then, all Earth Had to her center shook.
But think not here To trouble holy rest; Heaven casts thee out From all her confines.
Nor think thou with wind Of aery threats to awe whom yet with deeds Thou canst not.
Sense of pleasure we may well Spare out of life perhaps, and not repine, But live content, which is the calmest life: But pain is perfect misery, the worst Of evils, and, excessive, overturns All patience.
God saw the light was good; And light from darkness by the hemisphere Divided: light the Day, and darkness Night, He named.
Greater now in thy return Than from the giant Angels: Thee that day Thy thunders magnified; but to create Is greater than created to destroy. Who can impair thee, Mighty King, or bound Thy empire!
Easily the proud attempt Of Spirits apostate, and their counsels vain, Thou hast repelled; while impiously they thought Thee to diminish, and from thee withdraw The number of thy worshippers.
In solitude What happiness, who can enjoy alone, Or, all enjoying, what contentment find? Thus I presumptuous; and the Vision bright, As with a smile more brightened, thus replied. What callest thou solitude?
Is not the Earth With various living creatures, and the air Replenished, and all these at thy command To come and play before thee?
Knowest thou not Their language and their ways?
Who aspires, must down as low As high he soared; obnoxious, first or last, To basest things.
He, leading, swiftly rolled In tangles, and made intricate seem straight, To mischief swift.
Why, but to awe; Why, but to keep ye low and ignorant, His worshippers?
But, if death Bind us with after-bands, what profits then Our inward freedom?
In the day we eat Of this fair fruit, our doom is, we shall die! How dies the Serpent? he hath eaten and lives, And knows, and speaks, and reasons, and discerns, Irrational till then.
So rose the Danite strong, Herculean Samson, from the harlot-lap Of Philistean Dalilah, and waked Shorn of his strength.
Those heavenly shapes Will dazzle now this earthly with their blaze Insufferably bright.
O, how unlike To that first naked glory!
To whom The gracious Judge without revile replied. My voice thou oft hast heard, and hast not feared, But still rejoiced; how is it now become So dreadful to thee?
That thou art naked, who Hath told thee?
Thus was the applause they meant, Turned to exploding hiss, triumph to shame Cast on themselves from their own mouths.
The sun Had first his precept so to move, so shine, As might affect the earth with cold and heat Scarce tolerable; and from the north to call Decrepit winter; from the south to bring Solstitial summer's heat.
O fleeting joys Of Paradise, dear bought with lasting woes! Did I request thee, Maker, from my clay To mould me Man? did I solicit thee From darkness to promote me, or here place In this delicious garden?
To the loss of that, Sufficient penalty, why hast thou added The sense of endless woes?
Inexplicable Thy justice seems; yet to say truth, too late I thus contest; then should have been refused Those terms whatever, when they were proposed: Thou didst accept them; wilt thou enjoy the good, Then cavil the conditions?
And, though God Made thee without thy leave, what if thy son Prove disobedient, and reproved, retort, "Wherefore didst thou beget me?
Why delays His hand to execute what his decree Fixed on this day?
Why do I overlive, Why am I mocked with death, and lengthened out To deathless pain?
How gladly would I meet Mortality my sentence, and be earth Insensible!
How glad would lay me down As in my mother's lap!
There I should rest, And sleep secure; his dreadful voice no more Would thunder in my ears; no fear of worse To me, and to my offspring, would torment me With cruel expectation.
O thought Horrid, if true!
It was but breath Of life that sinned; what dies but what had life And sin?
The body properly had neither, All of me then shall die: let this appease The doubt, since human reach no further knows. For though the Lord of all be infinite, Is his wrath also?
Be it, Man is not so, But mortal doomed.
How can he exercise Wrath without end on Man, whom death must end? Can he make deathless death?
That were to make Strange contradiction, which to God himself Impossible is held; as argument Of weakness, not of power.
Will he draw out, For anger's sake, finite to infinite, In punished Man, to satisfy his rigour, Satisfied never?
That were to extend His sentence beyond dust and Nature's law; By which all causes else, according still To the reception of their matter, act; Not to the extent of their own sphere.
O, were I able To waste it all myself, and leave ye none! So disinherited, how would you bless Me, now your curse!
Ah, why should all mankind, For one man's fault, thus guiltless be condemned, It guiltless?
But from me what can proceed, But all corrupt; both mind and will depraved Not to do only, but to will the same With me?
How can they then acquitted stand In sight of God?
Fond wish! couldst thou support That burden, heavier than the earth to bear; Than all the world much heavier, though divided With that bad Woman?
Why comes not Death, Said he, with one thrice-acceptable stroke To end me?
To which our sire. Alas! both for the deed, and for the cause! But have I now seen Death?
O sight Of terrour, foul and ugly to behold, Horrid to think, how horrible to feel! To whom thus Michael.
Can thus The image of God in Man, created once So goodly and erect, though faulty since, To such unsightly sufferings be debased Under inhuman pains?
To sojourn in that land He comes, invited by a younger son In time of dearth, a son whose worthy deeds Raise him to be the second in that realm Of Pharaoh.
Who then shall guide His people, who defend?
There are two editions of this ebook in the Project Gutenberg collection.
A FOGGY NIGHT AND MORNING-CONCLUSION List of Illustrations HANDS WERE LOOSENING HIS NECKERCHIEF. "DO YOU HAPPEN TO WANT A SHEPPERD MA'AM?" "GET THE FRONT DOOR KEY.
This instrument being several years older than Oak's grandfather, had the peculiarity of going either too fast or not at all.
The smaller of its hands, too, occasionally slipped round on the pivot, and thus, though the minutes were told with precision, nobody could be quite certain of the hour they belonged to.
In his face one might notice that many of the hues and curves of youth had tarried on to manhood: there even remained in his remoter crannies some relics of the boy.
His height and breadth would have been sufficient to make his presence imposing, had they been exhibited with due consideration.
This may be said to be a defect in an individual if he depends for his valuation as a total more upon his appearance than upon his capacity to wear well, which Oak did not.
He had just reached the time of life at which "young" is ceasing to be the prefix of "man" in speaking of one.
In short, he was twenty-eight, and a bachelor. The field he was in sloped steeply to a ridge called Norcombe Hill. Through a spur of this hill ran the highway from Norcombe to Casterbridge, sunk in a deep cutting.
Casually glancing over the hedge, Oak saw coming down the incline before him an ornamental spring waggon, painted yellow and gaily marked, drawn by two horses, a waggoner walking alongside bearing a whip perpendicularly.
The waggon was laden with household goods and window plants, and on the apex of the whole sat a woman, young and attractive.
Then she looked attentively downwards.
It was not at the bird, nor at the cat; it was at an oblong package tied in paper, and lying between them.
She turned her head to learn if the waggoner were coming.
He was not yet in sight; and her eyes crept back to the package, her thoughts seeming to run upon what was inside it.
At length she drew the article into her lap, and untied the paper covering; a small swing looking-glass was disclosed, in which she proceeded to survey herself attentively.
Then she parted her lips and smiled. It was a fine morning, and the sun lighted up to a scarlet glow the crimson jacket she wore, and painted a soft lustre upon her bright face and dark hair.
The myrtles, geraniums, and cactuses packed around her were fresh and green, and at such a leafless season they invested the whole concern of horses, waggon, furniture, and girl with a peculiar charm of rarity.
Woman's prescriptive infirmity had stalked into the sunlight, which had invested it with the freshness of an originality.
A cynical inference was irresistible by Gabriel Oak as he regarded the scene, generous though he fain would have been.
There was no necessity whatever for her looking in the glass.
She did not adjust her hat, or pat her hair, or press a dimple into shape, or do one thing to signify that any such intention had been her motive in taking up the glass.
Still, this was but conjecture, and the whole series of actions was so idly put forth as to make it rash to assert that intention had any part in them at all. The waggoner's steps were heard returning.
About twenty steps still remained between him and the gate, when he heard a dispute.
These were the waggoner's words. "Very well; then mis'ess's niece can't pass," said the turnpike-keeper, closing the gate. Oak looked from one to the other of the disputants, and fell into a reverie.
There was something in the tone of twopence remarkably insignificant.
Threepence had a definite value as money-it was an appreciable infringement on a day's wages, and, as such, a higgling matter; but twopence- "Here," he said, stepping forward and handing twopence to the gatekeeper; "let the young woman pass.
The red-jacketed and dark-haired maiden seemed to think so too, for she carelessly glanced over him, and told her man to drive on.
To-night these trees sheltered the southern slope from the keenest blasts, which smote the wood and floundered through it with a sound as of grumbling, or gushed over its crowning boughs in a weakened moan.
The dry leaves in the ditch simmered and boiled in the same breezes, a tongue of air occasionally ferreting out a few, and sending them spinning across the grass.
The thin grasses, more or less coating the hill, were touched by the wind in breezes of differing powers and almost differing natures-one rubbing the blades heavily, another raking them piercingly, another brushing them like a soft broom.
The North star was directly in the wind's eye, and since evening the Bear had swung round it outwardly to the east, till it was now at a right angle with the meridian.
A difference of colour in the stars-oftener read of than seen in England-was really perceptible here.
The hut stood on small wheels, which raised its floor about a foot from the ground.
Such shepherds' huts are dragged into the fields when the lambing season comes on, to shelter the shepherd in his enforced nightly attendance. It was only latterly that people had begun to call Gabriel "Farmer" Oak.
During the twelvemonth preceding this time he had been enabled by sustained efforts of industry and chronic good spirits to lease the small sheep-farm of which Norcombe Hill was a portion, and stock it with two hundred sheep.
A rectangular space of light appeared in the side of the hut, and in the opening the outline of Farmer Oak's figure.
Fitness being the basis of all beauty, nobody could have denied that his steady swings and turns in and about the flock had elements of grace.
Detached hurdles thatched with straw were stuck into the ground at various scattered points, amid and under which the whitish forms of his meek ewes moved and rustled.
Oak extinguished the lantern by blowing into it and then pinching out the snuff, the cot being lighted by a candle suspended by a twisted wire.
A rather hard couch, formed of a few corn sacks thrown carelessly down, covered half the floor of this little habitation, and here the young man stretched himself along, loosened his woollen cravat, and closed his eyes.
In the corner stood the sheep-crook, and along a shelf at one side were ranged bottles and canisters of the simple preparations pertaining to ovine surgery and physic; spirits of wine, turpentine, tar, magnesia, ginger, and castor-oil being the chief.
On a triangular shelf across the corner stood bread, bacon, cheese, and a cup for ale or cider, which was supplied from a flagon beneath.
Beside the provisions lay the flute, whose notes had lately been called forth by the lonely watcher to beguile a tedious hour.
For a moment he seemed impressed with the speaking loneliness of the scene, or rather with the complete abstraction from all its compass of the sights and sounds of man.
A dim mass under the slope reminded him that a shed occupied a place here, the site being a cutting into the slope of the hill, so that at its back part the roof was almost level with the ground.
In front it was formed of boards nailed to posts and covered with tar as a preservative.
Through crevices in the roof and side spread streaks and dots of light, a combination of which made up the radiance that had attracted him.
Oak stepped up behind, where, leaning down upon the roof and putting his eye close to a hole, he could see into the interior clearly. The place contained two women and two cows.
By the side of the latter a steaming bran-mash stood in a bucket.
One of the women was past middle age.
I do hope Daisy will fetch round again now.
It went over the hedge, I think.
Gabriel Oak returned to his flock. CHAPTER III. A GIRL ON HORSEBACK-CONVERSATION The sluggish day began to break.
Even its position terrestrially is one of the elements of a new interest, and for no particular reason save that the incident of the night had occurred there, Oak went again into the plantation.
Lingering and musing here, he heard the steps of a horse at the foot of the hill, and soon there appeared in view an auburn pony with a girl on its back, ascending by the path leading past the cattle-shed.
She was the young woman of the night before.
Gabriel instantly thought of the hat she had mentioned as having lost in the wind; possibly she had come to look for it.
He hastily scanned the ditch, and after walking about ten yards along it, found the hat among the leaves.
Gabriel took it in his hand and returned to his hut.
The rapidity of her glide into this position was that of a kingfisher-its noiselessness that of a hawk.
Gabriel's eyes had scarcely been able to follow her. The tall lank pony seemed used to such phenomena, and ambled along unconcerned.
She had no side-saddle, and it was very apparent that a firm seat upon the smooth leather beneath her was unattainable sideways.
An hour passed, the girl returned, properly seated now, with a bag of bran in front of her.
On nearing the cattle-shed she was met by a boy bringing a milking-pail, who held the reins of the pony whilst she slid off.
The boy led away the horse, leaving the pail with the young woman. Soon a soft spirt, alternating with a loud spirt, came in regular succession from within the shed.
They were the sounds of a person milking a cow.
Gabriel took the lost hat in his hand, and waited beside the path she would follow in leaving the hill. She came, the pail in one hand, hanging against her knee.
The left arm was extended as a balance, enough of it being shown bare to make Oak wish that the event had happened in summer, when the whole would have been revealed.
Like exceptional emphasis in the tone of a genius, that which would have made mediocrity ridiculous was an addition to recognized power.
The starting-point selected by the judgment was her height.
Without throwing a Nymphean tissue over a milkmaid, let it be said that here criticism checked itself in examining details to return to where it began, and looked at her proportions with a long consciousness of pleasure.
From the contours of her figure in its upper part, she must have had a beautiful neck and shoulders; but it may be stated that since her infancy nobody had ever seen them.
Had she been put into a low dress she would have run and thrust her head into a bush.
The self-consciousness shown would have been vanity if a little more pronounced, dignity if a little less.
How did you know?" she said. "I was here." "You are Farmer Oak, are you not?" "That or thereabouts.
About a hundred." (In speaking of farms the word "acres" is omitted by the natives, by analogy to such old expressions as "a stag of ten.") "I wanted my hat this morning," she went on.
Recollection of the strange antics she had indulged in when passing through the trees, was succeeded in the girl by a nettled palpitation, and that by a hot face.
It was a time to see a woman redden who was not given to reddening as a rule; not a point in the milkmaid but was of the deepest rose-colour.
She had gone away. With an air between that of Tragedy and Comedy, Gabriel returned to his work. Five mornings and evenings passed.
The young woman came regularly to milk the healthy cow or to attend to the sick one, but never allowed her vision to stray in the direction of Oak's person.
His want of tact had deeply offended her-not by seeing what he could not help, but by letting her know that he had seen it.
For, as without law there is no sin, without eyes there is no indecorum; and she appeared to feel that Gabriel's espial had made her an indecorous woman without her own connivance.
One afternoon it began to freeze, and the frost increased with evening, which drew on like a stealthy tightening of bonds.
It was a time when in cottages the breath of the sleepers freezes to the sheets, when round the drawing-room fire of a thick-walled mansion the sitters' backs are cold, even whilst their faces are all aglow.
Many a small bird went to bed supperless that night among the bare boughs. As the milking-hour drew near, Oak kept his usual watch upon the cowshed.
At last he felt cold, and shaking an extra quantity of bedding round the yeaning ewes, he entered the hut and heaped more fuel upon the stove.
The wind came in at the bottom of the door, to prevent which Oak wheeled the cot round a little more to the south.
He fell asleep without having performed the necessary preliminary. How long he remained unconscious Gabriel never knew.
During the first stages of his return to perception peculiar deeds seemed to be in course of enactment.
The young girl with the remarkably pleasant lips and white teeth was beside him.
It was a wonder you were not suffocated in this hut of yours." "Ah, the hut!" murmured Gabriel.
I gave ten pounds for that hut.
But I'll sell it, and sit under thatched hurdles as they did in old times, curl up to sleep in a lock of straw!
It played me nearly the same trick the other day!
You should, I think, have considered, and not have been so foolish as to leave the slides closed." "Yes, I suppose I should," said Oak, absently.
He was endeavouring to catch and appreciate the sensation of being thus with her-his head upon her dress-before the event passed on into the heap of bygone things.
He wished she knew his impressions; but he would as soon have thought of carrying an odour in a net as of attempting to convey the intangibilities of his feeling in the coarse meshes of language.
So he remained silent. She made him sit up, and then Oak began wiping his face and shaking himself like a Samson.
I came across and looked round the hut the very first thing to see if the slides were closed.
My uncle has a hut like this one, and I have heard him tell his shepherd not to go to sleep without leaving a slide open. I opened the door, and there you were like dead.
I threw the milk over you, as there was no water, forgetting it was warm, and no use." "I wonder if I should have died?
Gabriel said, in a low voice, which was rather meant to travel back to himself than to her. "Oh no," the girl replied.
I know your aunt's, but not yours." "I would just as soon not tell it-rather not.
But I can't match you, I know, in mapping out my mind upon my tongue, as I may say. I never was very clever in my inside.
Come, give me your hand!" She hesitated, somewhat disconcerted at Oak's old-fashioned earnest conclusion to a dialogue lightly carried on.
Very well," she said, and gave him her hand, compressing her lips to a demure impassivity.
She gave him her hand again. Oak held it longer this time-indeed, curiously long.
How soft it is-being winter time, too-not chapped or rough or anything!" he said. "There-that's long enough," said she, though without pulling it away. "But I suppose you are thinking you would like to kiss it?
You may if you want to." "I wasn't thinking of any such thing," said Gabriel, simply; "but I will--" "That you won't!
His dog waited for his meals in a way so like that in which Oak waited for the girl's presence, that the farmer was quite struck with the resemblance, felt it lowering, and would not look at the dog.
However, he continued to watch through the hedge for her regular coming, and thus his sentiments towards her were deepened without any corresponding effect being produced upon herself.
He dreaded the eight day. At last the eighth day came.
The cow had ceased to give milk for that year, and Bathsheba Everdene came up the hill no more.
Gabriel had reached a pitch of existence he never could have anticipated a short time before.
Love is a possible strength in an actual weakness.
Marriage transforms a distraction into a support, the power of which should be, and happily often is, in direct proportion to the degree of imbecility it supplants.
Nobody appeared, and he heard the person retreat among the bushes. Gabriel meditated, and so deeply that he brought small furrows into his forehead by sheer force of reverie.
Where the issue of an interview is as likely to be a vast change for the worse as for the better, any initial difference from expectation causes nipping sensations of failure.
Oak went up to the door a little abashed: his mental rehearsal and the reality had had no common grounds of opening. Bathsheba's aunt was indoors.
The voice had evidently been hers. "Will you come in, Mr. Oak?" "Oh, thank ye," said Gabriel, following her to the fireplace.
I've brought a lamb for Miss Everdene.
I thought she might like one to rear: girls do." "She might," said Mrs. Hurst, musingly; "though she's only a visitor here.
If you will wait a minute, Bathsheba will be in." "Yes, I will wait," said Gabriel, sitting down.
The lamb isn't really the business I came about, Mrs. Hurst.
In short, I was going to ask her if she'd like to be married." "And were you indeed?" "Yes.
Because if she would, I should be very glad to marry her.
D'ye know if she's got any other young man hanging about her at all?" "Let me think," said Mrs. Hurst, poking the fire superfluously.... "Yes-bless you, ever so many young men.
You see, Farmer Oak, she's so good-looking, and an excellent scholar besides-she was going to be a governess once, you know, only she was too wild.
Not that her young men ever come here-but, Lord, in the nature of women, she must have a dozen!" "That's unfortunate," said Farmer Oak, contemplating a crack in the stone floor with sorrow.
I'm only an every-day sort of man, and my only chance was in being the first comer. . . .
He looked round, and saw a girl racing after him, waving a white handkerchief. Oak stood still-and the runner drew nearer.
I didn't know you had come (pant) to ask to have me, or I should have come in from the garden instantly.
I ran after you to say (pant) that my aunt made a mistake in sending you away from courting me (pant)--" Gabriel expanded.
I'm sorry to have made you run so fast, my dear," he said, with a grateful sense of favours to come.
Wait a bit till you've found your breath." "-It was quite a mistake-aunt's telling you I had a young man already." Bathsheba went on.
He held out his hand to take hers, which, when she had eased her side by pressing it there, was prettily extended upon her bosom to still her loud-beating heart.
Gabriel uttered "a little" in a tone to show her that it was the complacent form of "a great deal.
He continued: "When we are married, I am quite sure I can work twice as hard as I do now." He went forward and stretched out his arm again.
Bathsheba had overtaken him at a point beside which stood a low, stunted holly-bush, now laden with red berries.
Why, if I'd wanted you I shouldn't have run after you like this; 'twould have been the _forwardest_ thing!
But there was no harm in hurrying to correct a piece of false news that had been told you." "Oh, no-no harm at all.
I'll wait awhile, Miss Everdene.
I love you far more than common!" "I'll try to think," she observed, rather more timorously; "if I can think out of doors; but my mind spreads away so." "But you can give a guess." "Then give me time.
Bathsheba looked thoughtfully into the distance, away from the direction in which Gabriel stood. "I can make you happy," said he to the back of her head, across the bush.
And at home by the fire, whenever you look up, there I shall be-and whenever I look up, there will be you." "Wait, wait, and don't be improper!" Her countenance fell, and she was silent awhile.
He contemplated the red berries between them over and over again, to such an extent, that holly seemed in his after-life to be a cypher signifying a proposal of marriage.
Bathsheba decisively turned to him. "No;" 'tis no use," she said.
I don't want to marry you." "Try." "I have tried hard all the time I've been thinking; for a marriage would be very nice in one sense.
But dearest," he continued in a palliative voice, "don't be like it!
Oak sighed a deep honest sigh-none the less so in that, being like the sigh of a pine plantation, it was rather noticeable as a disturbance of the atmosphere.
I don't love you," she said." "But I love you-and, as for myself, I am content to be liked." "Oh, Mr. Oak-that's very fine!
You'd get to despise me." "Never," said Mr. Oak, so earnestly that he seemed to be coming, by the force of his words, straight through the bush and into her arms.
I shall do one thing in this life-one thing certain-that is, love you, and long for you, and _keep wanting you_ till I die.
How I wish I hadn't run after you!
However, she seemed to have a short cut for getting back to cheerfulness, and set her face to signify archness.
It wouldn't do, Mr. Oak.
I have hardly a penny in the world-I am staying with my aunt for my bare sustenance.
I am better educated than you-and I don't love you a bit: that's my side of the case.
After that, do you think I could marry you?
Not if I know it." He broke in passionately: "But don't mistake me like that!
Because I am open enough to own what every man in my position would have thought of, you make your colours come up your face, and get crabbed with me.
That about your not being good enough for me is nonsense.
You speak like a lady-all the parish notice it, and your uncle at Weatherbury is, I have heard, a large farmer-much larger than ever I shall be.
May I call in the evening, or will you walk along with me on Sundays?
I don't want you to make up your mind at once, if you'd rather not." "No-no-I cannot.
Don't press me any more-don't.
I don't love you-so 'twould be ridiculous!" she said, with a laugh. No man likes to see his emotions the sport of a merry-go-round of skittishness.
It appeared that she had gone to a place called Weatherbury, more than twenty miles off, but in what capacity-whether as a visitor, or permanently, he could not discover. Gabriel had two dogs.
On the further side of Norcombe Hill was a chalk-pit, from which chalk had been drawn for generations, and spread over adjacent farms.
Two hedges converged upon it in the form of a V, but without quite meeting.
Only one responded-old George; the other could not be found, either in the house, lane, or garden.
Just before dawn he was assisted in waking by the abnormal reverberation of familiar music.
In the solemn calm of the awakening morn that note was heard by Gabriel, beating with unusual violence and rapidity.
The forward ewes were kept apart from those among which the fall of lambs would be later, there being two hundred of the latter class in Gabriel's flock.
These two hundred seemed to have absolutely vanished from the hill.
There were the fifty with their lambs, enclosed at the other end as he had left them, but the rest, forming the bulk of the flock, were nowhere.
Gabriel called at the top of his voice the shepherd's call. "Ovey, ovey, ovey!" Not a single bleat.
He went to the hedge-a gap had been broken through it, and in the gap were the footprints of the sheep.
Rather surprised to find them break fence at this season, yet putting it down instantly to their great fondness for ivy in winter-time, of which a great deal grew in the plantation, he followed through the hedge.
They were not in the plantation.
He called again: the valleys and furthest hills resounded as when the sailors invoked the lost Hylas on the Mysian shore; but no sheep.
He passed through the trees and along the ridge of the hill.
With a sensation of bodily faintness he advanced: at one point the rails were broken through, and there he saw the footprints of his ewes.
The dog came up, licked his hand, and made signs implying that he expected some great reward for signal services rendered.
Oak looked over the precipice.
A shadow in his life had always been that his flock ended in mutton-that a day came and found every shepherd an arrant traitor to his defenseless sheep.
His first feeling now was one of pity for the untimely fate of these gentle ewes and their unborn lambs. It was a second to remember another phase of the matter.
The sheep were not insured.
All the savings of a frugal life had been dispersed at a blow; his hopes of being an independent farmer were laid low-possibly for ever.
Gabriel's energies, patience, and industry had been so severely taxed during the years of his life between eighteen and eight-and-twenty, to reach his present stage of progress, that no more seemed to be left in him.
He leant down upon a rail, and covered his face with his hands. Stupors, however, do not last for ever, and Farmer Oak recovered from his.
It was as remarkable as it was characteristic that the one sentence he uttered was in thankfulness:- "Thank God I am not married: what would _she_ have done in the poverty now coming upon me!
Oak raised his head, and wondering what he could do, listlessly surveyed the scene.
By the outer margin of the pit was an oval pond, and over it hung the attenuated skeleton of a chrome-yellow moon, which had only a few days to last-the morning star dogging her on the right hand.
His answer always was,- "I am looking for a place myself-a bailiff's.
Do you know of anybody who wants one?" Gabriel was paler now.
His eyes were more meditative, and his expression was more sad.
He had passed through an ordeal of wretchedness which had given him more than it had taken away.
And thus the abasement had been exaltation, and the loss gain. In the morning a regiment of cavalry had left the town, and a sergeant and his party had been beating up for recruits through the four streets.
As the end of the day drew on, and he found himself not hired, Gabriel almost wished that he had joined them, and gone off to serve his country.
Weary of standing in the market-place, and not much minding the kind of work he turned his hand to, he decided to offer himself in some other capacity than that of bailiff. All the farmers seemed to be wanting shepherds.
However, two or three farmers noticed him and drew near.
Dialogues followed, more or less in the subjoined form:- "Where do you come from?" "Norcombe." "That's a long way. "Twenty miles." "Who's farm were you upon last?" "My own." This reply invariably operated like a rumour of cholera.
The inquiring farmer would edge away and shake his head dubiously.
Gabriel wished he had not nailed up his colours as a shepherd, but had instead laid himself out for anything in the whole cycle of labour that was required in the fair.
Some merry men were whistling and singing by the corn-exchange.
Gabriel's hand, which had lain for some time idle in his smock-frock pocket, touched his flute, which he carried there.
Here was an opportunity for putting his dearly bought wisdom into practice. He drew out his flute and began to play "Jockey to the Fair" in the style of a man who had never known moment's sorrow.
Oak could pipe with Arcadian sweetness, and the sound of the well-known notes cheered his own heart as well as those of the loungers.
It was where Bathsheba had gone two months before.
Moreover, the Weatherbury folk were by no means uninteresting intrinsically.
If report spoke truly they were as hardy, merry, thriving, wicked a set as any in the whole county.
The waggon, from its position, seemed to have been left there for the night, for beyond about half a truss of hay which was heaped in the bottom, it was quite empty.
Gabriel sat down on the shafts of the vehicle and considered his position.
Inward melancholy it was impossible for a man like Oak, introspective far beyond his neighbours, to banish quite, whilst conning the present untoward page of his history.
This utterance was very shaky by nature, and more so by circumstance, the jolting of the waggon not being without its effect upon the speaker's larynx.
It came from the man who held the reins. "She's a very vain feymell-so 'tis said here and there." "Ah, now.
If so be 'tis like that, I can't look her in the face.
Such a shy man as I be!" "Yes-she's very vain.
Tis said that every night at going to bed she looks in the glass to put on her nightcap properly." "And not a married woman.
Oh, the world!" "And 'a can play the peanner, so 'tis said.
Can play so clever that 'a can make a psalm tune sound as well as the merriest loose song a man can wish for." "D'ye tell o't!
A happy mercy for us, and I feel quite unspeakable!
And how do she pay?" "That I don't know, Master Poorgrass." On hearing these and other similar remarks, a wild thought flashed into Gabriel's mind that they might be speaking of Bathsheba.
There were, however, no grounds for retaining such a supposition, for the waggon, though going in the direction of Weatherbury, might be going beyond it, and the woman alluded to seemed to be the mistress of some estate.
The crunching jangle of the waggon died upon his ear.
He was about to walk on, when he noticed on his left hand an unusual light-appearing about half a mile distant.
Oak watched it, and the glow increased.
Something was on fire. Gabriel again mounted the stile, and, leaping down on the other side upon what he found to be ploughed soil, made across the field in the exact direction of the fire.
The blaze, enlarging in a double ratio by his approach and its own increase, showed him as he drew nearer the outlines of ricks beside it, lighted up to great distinctness.
A rick-yard was the source of the fire.
He came up to the boundary fence, and stood to regain breath.
It seemed as if the spot was unoccupied by a living soul. The fire was issuing from a long straw-stack, which was so far gone as to preclude a possibility of saving it.
A rick burns differently from a house.
As the wind blows the fire inwards, the portion in flames completely disappears like melting sugar, and the outline is lost to the eye.
It glowed on the windward side, rising and falling in intensity, like the coal of a cigar.
Then a superincumbent bundle rolled down, with a whisking noise, flames elongated, and bent themselves about with a quiet roar, but no crackle.
The first man he came to was running about in a great hurry, as if his thoughts were several yards in advance of his body, which they could never drag on fast enough. "O, man-fire, fire!
A good master and a bad servant is fire, fire!-I mane a bad servant and a good master Oh, Mark Clark-come!
And you, Billy Smallbury-and you, Maryann Money-and you, Joseph Poorgrass, and Matthew there, for his mercy endureth for ever!
The corn stood on stone staddles, and between these, tongues of yellow hues from the burning straw licked and darted playfully.
If the fire once got _under_ this stack, all would be lost. "Get a tarpaulin-quick!" said Gabriel. A rick-cloth was brought, and they hung it like a curtain across the channel.
They were all tinged orange, and backed up by shadows as tall as fir-trees. Round the corner of the largest stack, out of the direct rays of the fire, stood a pony, bearing a young woman on its back.
By her side was another female, on foot.
These two seemed to keep at a distance from the fire, that the horse might not become restive. "He's a shepherd," said the woman on foot.
See how his crook shines as he beats the rick with it.
And his smock-frock is burnt in two holes, I declare!
A fine young shepherd he is too, ma'am." "Whose shepherd is he?" said the equestrian in a clear voice. "Don't know, ma'am." "Don't any of the others know?" "Nobody at all-I've asked 'em.
If this rick had gone the barn would have followed.
Lately 'a came here from a distance.
Took on her uncle's farm, who died suddenly.
Used to measure his money in half-pint cups.
She scarcely knew whether most to be amused at the singularity of the meeting, or to be concerned at its awkwardness.
But--" "He's the very man, ma'am," said one of the villagers, quietly. Conviction breeds conviction.
Ay, that 'a is," said a second, decisively. "The man, truly!" said a third, with heartiness." "He's all there!" said number four, fervidly." "Then will you tell him to speak to the bailiff," said Bathsheba. All was practical again now.
Men," said Bathsheba, "you shall take a little refreshment after this extra work.
Good-night to ye, shepherd." "Can you get me a lodging?" inquired Gabriel. "That I can't, indeed," he said, moving past Oak as a Christian edges past an offertory-plate when he does not mean to contribute.
If you follow on the road till you come to Warren's Malthouse, where they are all gone to have their snap of victuals, I dare say some of 'em will tell you of a place.
There was a wide margin of grass along here, and Gabriel's footsteps were deadened by its softness, even at this indurating period of the year.
When abreast of a trunk which appeared to be the oldest of the old, he became aware that a figure was standing behind it on the other side.
Gabriel did not pause in his walk, and in another moment he accidentally kicked a loose stone.
It's at the bottom of the hill.
And do you know--" The girl hesitated and then went on again.
Do you know how late they keep open the 'Buck's Head Inn?'" She seemed to be won by Gabriel's heartiness, as Gabriel had been won by her modulations. "I don't know where the 'Buck's Head' is, or anything about it.
Do you think of going there to-night?" "Yes--.
You are not a Weatherbury man?" she said, timorously. "I am not.
I am rather poor, and I don't want people to know anything about me.
Then she was silent and shivered. "You ought to have a cloak on such a cold night," Gabriel observed.
I would advise you to get indoors." "O no!
Would you mind going on and leaving me?
I thank you much for what you have told me." "I will go on," he said; adding hesitatingly,-"Since you are not very well off, perhaps you would accept this trifle from me.
It is only a shilling, but it is all I have to spare." "Yes, I will take it," said the stranger, gratefully. She extended her hand; Gabriel his.
In feeling for each other's palms in the gloom before the money could be passed, a minute incident occurred which told much.
Gabriel's fingers alighted on the young woman's wrist.
It was beating with a throb of tragic intensity.
He had frequently felt the same quick, hard beat in the femoral artery of his lambs when overdriven.
It suggested a consumption too great of a vitality which, to judge from her figure and stature, was already too little. "What is the matter?" "Nothing." "But there is?" "No, no, no!
Let your having seen me be a secret!" "Very well; I will.
Good-night, again." "Good-night." The young girl remained motionless by the tree and Gabriel descended into the village.
There was no window in front; but a square hole in the door was glazed with a single pane, through which red, comfortable rays now stretched out upon the ivied wall in front.
Voices were to be heard inside. Oak's hand skimmed the surface of the door with fingers extended to an Elymas-the-Sorcerer pattern, till he found a leathern strap, which he pulled.
The stone-flag floor was worn into a path from the doorway to the kiln, and into undulations everywhere.
He wore breeches and the laced-up shoes called ankle-jacks; he kept his eyes fixed upon the fire. Gabriel's nose was greeted by an atmosphere laden with the sweet smell of new malt.
Tis gape and swaller with us-a drap of sommit, but not of much account," said the maltster, removing from the fire his eyes, which were vermilion-red and bleared by gazing into it for so many years.
Take up the God-forgive-me, Jacob.
Taking the mug he drank an inch or more from the depth of its contents, and duly passed it to the next man.
The cider will go down better with a bit of victuals.
Ther's plenty more in the barrel," said Jan. "Ay-that I will, as the doctor said," replied Mr. Clark, who, twenty years younger than Jan Coggan, revolved in the same orbit.
And how long have ye suffered from it, Joseph?" "Oh, ever since I was a boy.
Yes-mother was concerned to her heart about it-yes.
But 'twas all nought." "Did ye ever take anything to try and stop it, Joseph Poorgrass?" "Oh ay, tried all sorts.
They took me to Greenhill Fair, and into a grate large jerry-go-nimble show, where there were women-folk riding round-standing upon horses, with hardly anything on but their smocks, but it didn't cure me a morsel.
And then I was put errand-man at the Women's Skittle Alley at the back of the 'Tailor's Arms' in Casterbridge.
Twas a horrible gross situation, and altogether a very curious place for a good man.
I had to stand and look wicked people in the face from morning till night; but 'twas no use-I was just as bad as ever after all.
Blushes hev been in the family for generations.
There, 'tis a happy providence that I be no worse, so to speak it-yes, a happy thing, and I feel my few poor gratitudes." "True," said Jacob Smallbury, deepening his thoughts to a profounder view of the subject.
Tis a thought to look at, that ye might have been worse; but even as you be, 'tis a very bad affliction for ye, Joseph.
For ye see, shepherd, though 'tis very well for a woman, dang it all, 'tis awkward for a man like him, poor feller.
And as he was coming along in the middle of the night, much afeared, and not able to find his way out of the trees, nohow, 'a cried out, 'Man-a-lost! man-a-lost!
I'll take my oath I didn't say 'Joseph Poorgrass o' Weatherbury, _sir_.
No, no; what's right is right, and I never said sir to the bird, knowing very well that no man of a gentleman's rank would be hollering there at that time o' night.
Joseph Poorgrass of Weatherbury,'-that's every word I said, and I shouldn't ha' said that if 't hadn't been for Keeper Day's metheglin....
My heart died within me, that time; but I kneeled down and said the Lord's Prayer, and then the Belief right through, and then the Ten Commandments, in earnest prayer.
What sort of a place is this to live at, and what sort of a mis'ess is she to work under?
Gabriel's bosom thrilled gently as he thus slipped under the notice of the assembly the innermost subject of his heart. "We d' know little of her-nothing.
She only showed herself a few days ago.
Her uncle was took bad, and the doctor was called with his world-wide skill; but he couldn't save the man.
As I take it, she's going to keep on the farm. "That's about the shape o't, 'a b'lieve," said Jan Coggan.
Ay, 'tis a very good family.
I'd as soon be under 'em as under one here and there. Her uncle was a very fair sort of man.
Did ye know en, be under 'em as under one here and there.
Her uncle was a very fair sort of man.
Ay, 'twere like drinking blessedness itself.
Such lovely drunks as I used to have at that house.
You used to go wi' me sometimes." "I can-I can," said Jacob.
That one, too, that we had at Buck's Head on a White Monday was a pretty tipple, indeed." "'Twas.
But for a drunk of really a noble class and on the highest princliples, that brought you no nearer to the dark man than you were afore you begun, there was none like those in Farmer Everdene's kitchen.
Nature requires her swearing at the regular times, or she's not herself; and unholy exclamations is a necessity of life." "But Charlotte," continued Coggan-"not a word of the sort would Charlotte allow, nor the smallest item of taking in vain....
Ay, poor Charlotte, I wonder if she had the good fortune to get into Heaven when 'a died!
They've been dead for years.
Father, what sort of people were mis'ess' father and mother?" "Well," said the maltster, "he wasn't much to look at; but she was a lovely woman.
I knowed the man and woman both well.
Levi Everdene-that was the man's name, sure enough.
Man,' saith I in my hurry, but he were of a higher circle of life than that-'a was a gentleman-tailor really, worth scores of pounds.
And he became a very celebrated bankrupt two or three times." "Oh, I thought he was quite a common man!" said Joseph. "O no, no!
The pore feller were faithful and true enough to her in his wish, but his heart would rove, do what he would.
Ay, 'a spoke to me in real tribulation about it once.
Coggan,' he said, 'I could never wish for a handsomer woman than I've got, but feeling she's ticketed as my lawful wife, I can't help my wicked heart wandering, do what I will.
He got himself confirmed over again in a more serious way, and took to saying 'Amen' almost as loud as the clerk, and he liked to copy comforting verses from the tombstones.
One day Parson Thirdly met him and said, 'Good-morning, Mister Everdene; 'tis a fine day!
Amen' said Everdene, quite absent-like, thinking only of religion when he seed a parson.
Yes, he was a very Christian man." "His second-cousin, John, was the most religious of the family, however," said the old malster.
None of the others were so pious as he, for they never went past us Church people in their Christianity, but John's feelings growed as strong as a chapel member's.
A was a watch and clock maker by trade, and thought of nothing but godliness, poor man.
I judge every clock according to his works,' he used to say when he were in his holy frame of mind.
Ay, he likewise was a very Christian man. "Their daughter was not at all a pretty chiel at that time," said Henery Fray.
He'll strain for money as a salmon will strain for the river's head.
Tis a thief and a robber, that's what 'tis." Gabriel thought fit to change the subject.
You must be a very aged man, malster, to have sons growed mild and ancient," he remarked. "Father's so old that 'a can't mind his age, can ye, father?" interposed Jacob.
And he's growled terrible crooked, too, lately," Jacob continued, surveying his father's figure, which was rather more bowed than his own.
I bode at Juddle Farm across there" (nodding to the north) "till I were eleven.
I bode seven at Lower Twifford" (nodding to the east), "where I took to malting.
I went therefrom to Norcombe, and malted there two-and-twenty years, and two-and-twenty years I was there turnip-hoeing and harvesting.
Ah, I knowed that old place, Norcombe, years afore you were thought of, Master Oak" (Oak smiled a corroboration of the fact).
Then I malted at Snoodly-under-Drool four year, and four year turnip-hoeing; and I was fourteen times eleven months at Moreford St. Jude's" (nodding north-west-by-north).
Old Twills wouldn't hire me for more than eleven months at a time, to keep me from being chargeable to the parish if so be I was disabled.
Then I was three year at Mellstock, and I've been here one-and-thirty year come Candlemas.
How much is that?" "Hundred and seventeen," chuckled another old gentleman, given to mental arithmetic and little conversation, who had hitherto sat unobserved in a corner. "Well, then, that's my age," said the maltster, emphatically. "Oh, no, father!
Your turnip-hoeing were in the summer and your malting in the winter of the same years, and ye don't ought to count both halves father." "Chok' it all!
I lived through the summers, didn't I?
I've been in great trouble, neighbours, and was driven to it.
I used not to be so poor as I be now." "Never mind, heart!" said Mark Clark.
You should take it careless-like, shepherd, and your time will come.
But we could thank ye for a tune, if ye bain't too tired?" "Neither drum nor trumpet have I heard this Christmas," said Jan Coggan.
Come, raise a tune, Master Oak!" "Ay, that I will," said Gabriel readily, pulling out his flute and putting it together.
I must be moving, and when there's tunes going on I seem as if hung in wires.
If I thought after I'd left that music was still playing, and I not there, I should be quite melancholy-like." "What's yer hurry then, Laban?" inquired Coggan.
You used to bide as late as the latest." "Well, ye see, neighbours, I was lately married to a woman, and she's my vocation now, and so ye see. . . .
Then Gabriel arose and went off with Jan Coggan, who had offered him a lodging.
A few minutes later, when the remaining ones were on their legs and about to depart, Fray came back again in a hurry.
The news is, that after Miss Everdene got home she went out again to see all was safe, as she usually do, and coming in found Baily Pennyways creeping down the granary steps with half a bushel of barley.
I've had the news-bell ringing in my left ear quite bad enough for a murder, and I've seed a magpie all alone!" "Fanny Robin-Miss everdene's youngest servant-can't be found.
They've been wanting to lock up the door these two hours, but she isn't come in. And they don't know what to do about going to bed for fear of locking her out.
Do it quietly; there is no reason for alarm as yet.
For any lover of hers might have come to the house if he had been a respectable lad.
That's true-she would not, ma'am." "She had, I think, a bundle, though I couldn't see very well," said a female voice from another window, which seemed to belong to Maryann. "But she had no young man about here.
Hers lives in Casterbridge, and I believe he's a soldier." "Do you know his name?
I feel more responsible than I should if she had had any friends or relations alive.
I do hope she has come to no harm through a man of that kind....
And then there's this disgraceful affair of the bailiff-but I can't speak of him now." Bathsheba had so many reasons for uneasiness that it seemed she did not think it worth while to dwell upon any particular one.
Night had always been the time at which he saw Bathsheba most vividly, and through the slow hours of shadow he tenderly regarded her image now.
Soft brown mosses, like faded velveteen, formed cushions upon the stone tiling, and tufts of the houseleek or sengreen sprouted from the eaves of the low surrounding buildings.
Going up, we find the floors above to have a very irregular surface, rising to ridges, sinking into valleys, and being at present uncarpeted, the face of the boards is shown to be eaten into innumerable vermiculations.
Liddy, the maltster's great-granddaughter, was about Bathsheba's equal in age, and her face was a prominent advertisement of the light-hearted English country girl.
The paces slackened, turned in at the wicket, and, what was most unusual, came up the mossy path close to the door.
The door was tapped with the end of a whip or stick. "What impertinence!" said Liddy, in a low voice.
To ride up the footpath like that!
Why didn't he stop at the gate?
I see the top of his hat." "Be quiet!" said Bathsheba. The further expression of Liddy's concern was continued by exhibition instead of relation. "Why doesn't Mrs. Coggan go to the door?
All I wanted to ask was, if anything had been heard of Fanny Robin?" "Nothing, sir-but we may know to-night.
I am always in some unfortunate plight or other," Bathsheba said, complainingly.
Why should he inquire about Fanny?" "Oh, because, as she had no friends in her childhood, he took her and put her to school, and got her her place here under your uncle.
He's a very kind man that way, but Lord-there!" "What?" "Never was such a hopeless man for a woman!
He's been courted by sixes and sevens-all the girls, gentle and simple, for miles round, have tried him.
What did you say that for?" "'Cause he gave me the penny!" "What a pucker everything is in!" said Bathsheba, discontentedly when the child had gone.
Get away, Maryann, or go on with your scrubbing, or do something!
You ought to be married by this time, and not here troubling me." "Ay, mistress-so I did.
But what between the poor men I won't have, and the rich men who won't have me, I stand forlorn as a pelican in the wilderness.
Ah, poor soul of me!" "Did anybody ever want to marry you miss?
Liddy ventured to ask when they were again alone.
And you wouldn't have him?" "He wasn't quite good enough for me." "How sweet to be able to disdain, when most of us are glad to say, 'Thank you!
I seem I hear it.
No, sir-I'm your better,' or 'Kiss my foot, sir; my face is for mouths of consequence.
A crooked file of men was approaching the back door.
Two or three women in pattens brought up the rear. "The Philistines are upon us," said Liddy, making her nose white against the glass. "Oh, very well.
She sat down at a table and opened the time-book, pen in her hand, and a canvas money-bag beside her.
From this she poured a small heap of coin.
He promised to be back by six." "It wants a quarter to six at present," said Bathsheba, looking at her watch.
I daresay he'll be in directly.
Well, now then"-she looked into the book-"Joseph Poorgrass, are you there?" "Yes, sir-ma'am I mane," said the person addressed.
I am the personal name of Poorgrass-a small matter who is nothing in his own eye.
Ten and two-pence halfpenny is the sum put down to you, I see?" "Yes, mis'ess," said Matthew, as the rustle of wind among dead leaves. "Here it is and ten shillings.
Now the next-Andrew Candle, you are a new man, I hear.
Are they satisfactory women?" she inquired softly of Henery Fray. "Oh, mem-don't ask me!
Bathsheba asked. "I be his lawful wife!" continued the voice with greater prominence of manner and tone.
This lady called herself five-and-twenty, looked thirty, passed as thirty-five, and was forty.
She was a woman who never, like some newly married, showed conjugal tenderness in public, perhaps because she had none to show. "Oh, you are," said Bathsheba.
Well, Laban, will you stay on?" "Yes, he'll stay, ma'am!" said again the shrill tongue of Laban's lawful wife. "Well, he can speak for himself, I suppose." "O Lord, no, ma'am!
Has William Smallbury returned?" "No, ma'am." "The new shepherd will want a man under him," suggested Henery Fray, trying to make himself official again by a sideway approach towards her chair. "Oh-he will.
The parson put it right, but 'twas too late, for the name could never be got rid of in the parish. 'Tis very unfortunate for the boy." "It is rather unfortunate." "Yes.
However, we soften it down as much as we can, and call him Cainy. Ah, pore widow-woman! she cried her heart out about it almost.
And you quite understand your duties?-you I mean, Gabriel Oak?" "Quite well, I thank you, Miss Everdene," said Shepard Oak from the doorpost.
If I don't, I'll inquire.
Gabriel was rather staggered by the remarkable coolness of her manner.
Certainly nobody without previous information would have dreamt that Oak and the handsome woman before whom he stood had ever been other than strangers.
But perhaps her air was the inevitable result of the social rise which had advanced her from a cottage to a large house and fields.
The case is not unexampled in high places.
When I got to Casterbridge Barracks, they said, 'The 11th Dragoon-Guards be gone away, and new troops have come.
The Eleventh left last week for Melchester.
The Route came from Government like a thief in the night, as is his nature to, and afore the Eleventh knew it almost, they were on the march." Gabriel had listened with interest.
And so I said to myself, Fanny's young man was one of the regiment, and she's gone after him.
There, ma'am, that's it in black and white." "Did you find out his name?" "No; nobody knew it.
I believe he was higher in rank than a private." Gabriel remained musing and said nothing, for he was in doubt. "Well, we are not likely to know more to-night, at any rate," said Bathsheba.
I don't yet know my powers or my talents in farming; but I shall do my best, and if you serve me well, so shall I serve you.
On the right was a tract of land, partly meadow and partly moor, reaching, at its remote verge, to a wide undulating heath. The changes of the seasons are less obtrusive on spots of this kind than amid woodland scenery.
Still, to a close observer, they are just as perceptible; the difference is that their media of manifestation are less trite and familiar than such well-known ones as the bursting of the buds or the fall of the leaf.
Many are not so stealthy and gradual as we may be apt to imagine in considering the general torpidity of a moor or heath.
From this chaotic skyful of crowding flakes the heath and moor momentarily received additional clothing, only to appear momentarily more naked thereby.
They were flatness as regards the river, verticality as regards the wall behind it, and darkness as regards both.
These features made up the mass. If anything could be darker than the sky, it was the wall; and if anything could be gloomier than the wall, it was the river beneath.
Below, down to the water's edge, the flat was unbroken by hole or projection. An indescribable succession of dull blows, perplexing in their regularity, sent their sound with difficulty through the fluffy atmosphere.
It was a neighbouring clock striking ten.
Not long after a form moved by the brink of the river. By its outline upon the colourless background, a close observer might have seen that it was small.
This was all that was positively discoverable.
Human it seemed. The shape went slowly along, but without much exertion, for the snow, though sudden, was not as yet more than two inches deep.
At this time some words were spoken aloud:- "One.
Five." Between each utterance the little shape advanced about half a dozen yards.
It was evident now that the windows high in the wall were being counted.
The word "Five" represented the fifth window from the end of the wall. Here the spot stopped, and dwindled small.
The figure was stooping. Then a morsel of snow flew across the river towards the fifth window. It smacked against the wall at a point several yards from its mark.
The throw was the idea of a man conjoined with the execution of a woman.
This was followed by a voice from the same quarter. "Who's there?" The tones were masculine, and not those of surprise.
What girl are you?" "Oh, Frank-don't you know me?" said the spot.
The dialogue went on. "How did you come here?" "I asked which was your window.
Forgive me!" "I did not expect you to-night.
Indeed, I did not think you would come at all.
It was a wonder you found me here.
I am orderly to-morrow." "You said I was to come." "Well-I said that you might." "Yes, I mean that I might.
You are glad to see me, Frank?" "O yes-of course." "Can you-come to me!" "My dear Fan, no!
The bugle has sounded, the barrack gates are closed, and I have no leave.
We are all of us as good as in Melchester Gaol till to-morrow morning." "Then I shan't see you till then!
The words were in a faltering tone of disappointment. "How did you get here from Weatherbury?" "I walked-some part of the way-the rest by the carrier." "I am surprised." "Yes-so am I.
And Frank, when will it be?" "What?" "That you promised." "I don't quite recollect." "Oh you do!
It weighs me to the earth.
It makes me say what ought to be said first by you." "Never mind-say it." "Oh, must I?-it is, when shall we be married, Frank?" "Oh, I see.
Well-you have to get proper clothes." "I have money.
Will it be by banns or license?" "Banns, I should think." "And we live in two parishes." "Do we?
What then?" "My lodgings are in St. Mary's, and this is not.
So they will have to be published in both." "Is that the law?" "Yes.
O Frank-you think me forward, I am afraid!
Don't, dear Frank-will you-for I love you so.
And you said lots of times you would marry me, and-and-I-I-I--" "Don't cry, now!
If I said so, of course I will." "And shall I put up the banns in my parish, and will you in yours?" "Yes" "To-morrow?" "Not to-morrow.
We'll settle in a few days." "You have the permission of the officers?" "No-not yet." "Oh-how is it?
You said you almost had before you left Casterbridge." "The fact is, I forgot to ask.
Your coming like this is so sudden and unexpected." "Yes-yes-it is.
It was wrong of me to worry you.
Will you come and see me to-morrow, at Mrs. Twills's, in North Street?
I don't like to come to the Barracks.
There are bad women about, and they think me one." "Quite so.
I'll come to you, my dear.
Good-night." "Good-night, Frank-good-night!" And the noise was again heard of a window closing.
The little spot moved away.
When she passed the corner a subdued exclamation was heard inside the wall. "Ho-ho-Sergeant-ho-ho!
She was prettily and even daintily dressed.
She moved between them as a chaise between carts, was heard after them as a romance after sermons, was felt among them like a breeze among furnaces.
In arguing on prices, she held to her own firmly, as was natural in a dealer, and reduced theirs persistently, as was inevitable in a woman.
But we ought to be proud of her here-she lightens up the old place.
Women seem to have eyes in their ribbons for such matters as these.
Bathsheba, without looking within a right angle of him, was conscious of a black sheep among the flock. It perplexed her first.
If there had been a respectable minority on either side, the case would have been most natural.
If nobody had regarded her, she would have taken the matter indifferently-such cases had occurred.
If everybody, this man included, she would have taken it as a matter of course-people had done so before.
He was a gentlemanly man, with full and distinctly outlined Roman features, the prominences of which glowed in the sun with a bronze-like richness of tone.
He was erect in attitude, and quiet in demeanour.
Probably, as with persons playing whist for love, the consciousness of a certain immunity under any circumstances from that worst possible ultimate, the having to pay, makes them unduly speculative.
Bathsheba was convinced that this unmoved person was not a married man. When marketing was over, she rushed off to Liddy, who was waiting for her beside the yellow gig in which they had driven to town.
I shan't mind it again, for they will all have grown accustomed to seeing me there; but this morning it was as bad as being married-eyes everywhere!" "I knowed it would be," Liddy said.
Men be such a terrible class of society to look at a body." "But there was one man who had more sense than to waste his time upon me.
The information was put in this form that Liddy might not for a moment suppose her mistress was at all piqued.
A very good-looking man," she continued, "upright; about forty, I should think.
Now, if he'd taken more, it would have mattered a great deal." Bathsheba was suffering from the reverse feeling just then, and they bowled along in silence.
A low carriage, bowling along still more rapidly behind a horse of unimpeachable breed, overtook and passed them. "Why, there he is!" she said. Liddy looked.
That's Farmer Boldwood-of course 'tis-the man you couldn't see the other day when he called." "Oh, Farmer Boldwood," murmured Bathsheba, and looked at him as he outstripped them.
A woman jilted him, they say." "People always say that-and we know very well women scarcely ever jilt men; 'tis the men who jilt us.
I expect it is simply his nature to be so reserved." "Simply his nature-I expect so, miss-nothing else in the world." "Still, 'tis more romantic to think he has been served cruelly, poor thing!
Perhaps, after all, he has!" "Depend upon it he has.
Oh yes, miss, he has.
I feel he must have." "However, we are very apt to think extremes of people.
I shouldn't wonder after all if it wasn't a little of both-just between the two-rather cruelly used and rather reserved." "Oh dear no, miss-I can't think it between the two!" "That's most likely." "Well, yes, so it is.
I am convinced it is most likely.
You may take my word, miss, that that's what's the matter with him." CHAPTER XIII. SORTES SANCTORUM-THE VALENTINE It was Sunday afternoon in the farmhouse, on the thirteenth of February.
Dinner being over, Bathsheba, for want of a better companion, had asked Liddy to come and sit with her.
Liddy, like a little brook, though shallow, was always rippling; her presence had not so much weight as to task thought, and yet enough to exercise it. On the table lay an old quarto Bible, bound in leather.
Liddy looking at it said,- "Did you ever find out, miss, who you are going to marry by means of the Bible and key?" "Don't be so foolish, Liddy.
As if such things could be." "Well, there's a good deal in it, all the same." "Nonsense, child." "And it makes your heart beat fearfully.
Go and get the front door key." Liddy fetched it.
I wish it wasn't Sunday," she said, on returning." Perhaps 'tis wrong." [Illustration: "GET THE FRONT DOOR KEY.
The special verse in the Book of Ruth was sought out by Bathsheba, and the sublime words met her eye.
They slightly thrilled and abashed her.
It was Wisdom in the abstract facing Folly in the concrete.
Folly in the concrete blushed, persisted in her intention, and placed the key on the book.
Farmer Boldwood?" It was the single name among all possible wrong ones that just at this moment seemed to Bathsheba more pertinent than the right. "Well, no. It is only for little Teddy Coggan.
I have promised him something, and this will be a pretty surprise for him.
What shall I put?" "Something of this sort, I should think," returned Liddy promptly:- "The rose is red, The violet blue, Carnation's sweet, And so are you." "Yes, that shall be it.
It just suits itself to a chubby-faced child like him," said Bathsheba.
She was far from being seriously concerned about his non-conformity.
Still, it was faintly depressing that the most dignified and valuable man in the parish should withhold his eyes, and that a girl like Liddy should talk about it.
So Liddy's idea was at first rather harassing than piquant. "No, I won't do that.
He wouldn't see any humour in it." "He'd worry to death," said the persistent Liddy. "Really, I don't care particularly to send it to Teddy," remarked her mistress.
He's rather a naughty child sometimes." "Yes-that he is." "Let's toss as men do," said Bathsheba, idly.
Now then, head, Boldwood; tail, Teddy.
No, we won't toss money on a Sunday, that would be tempting the devil indeed." "Toss this hymn-book; there can't be no sinfulness in that, miss." "Very well.
No; it's more likely to fall open.
Open, Teddy-shut, Boldwood." The book went fluttering in the air and came down shut. Bathsheba, a small yawn upon her mouth, took the pen, and with off-hand serenity directed the missive to Boldwood. "Now light a candle, Liddy.
Which seal shall we use?
Here's a unicorn's head-there's nothing in that.
What's this?-two doves-no. It ought to be something extraordinary, ought it not, Lidd?
Here's one with a motto-I remember it is some funny one, but I can't read it.
We'll try this, and if it doesn't do we'll have another." A large red seal was duly affixed.
Upon the mantel-shelf before him was a time-piece, surmounted by a spread eagle, and upon the eagle's wings was the letter Bathsheba had sent.
The disturbance was as the first floating weed to Columbus-the eontemptibly little suggesting possibilities of the infinitely great. The letter must have had an origin and a motive.
That the latter was of the smallest magnitude compatible with its existence at all, Boldwood, of course, did not know.
And such an explanation did not strike him as a possibility even.
He was conscious of its presence, even when his back was turned upon it.
It was the first time in Boldwood's life that such an event had occurred.
The same fascination that caused him to think it an act which had a deliberate motive prevented him from regarding it as an impertinence.
He looked again at the direction.
The mysterious influences of night invested the writing with the presence of the unknown writer.
Somebody's some _woman's_-hand had travelled softly over the paper bearing his name; her unrevealed eyes had watched every curve as she formed it: her brain had seen him in imagination the while.
Why should she have imagined him?
She was a misty shape, and well she might be, considering that her original was at that moment sound asleep and oblivious of all love and letter-writing under the sky.
Whenever Boldwood dozed she took a form, and comparatively ceased to be a vision: when he awoke there was the letter justifying the dream. The moon shone to-night, and its light was not of a customary kind.
He suddenly wondered if anything more might be found in the envelope than what he had withdrawn.
He jumped out of bed in the weird light, took the letter, pulled out the flimsy sheet, shook the envelope-searched it.
Boldwood looked, as he had a hundred times the preceding day, at the insistent red seal: "Marry me," he said aloud. The solemn and reserved yeoman again closed the letter, and stuck it in the frame of the glass.
In doing so he caught sight of his reflected features, wan in expression, and insubstantial in form.
He saw how closely compressed was his mouth, and that his eyes were wide-spread and vacant.
Feeling uneasy and dissatisfied with himself for this nervous excitability, he returned to bed. Then the dawn drew on.
The full power of the clear heaven was not equal to that of a cloudy sky at noon, when Boldwood arose and dressed himself.
A half-muffled noise of light wheels interrupted him. Boldwood turned back into the road.
It was the mail-cart-a crazy, two-wheeled vehicle, hardly heavy enough to resist a puff of wind.
The driver held out a letter.
Boldwood seized it and opened it, expecting another anonymous one.
Though there is no name, I think it is for your shepherd." Boldwood looked then at the address:- _To the New Shepherd, Weatherbury Farm, Near Casterbridge_. "Oh-what a mistake!-it is not mine.
Nor is it for my shepherd.
It is for Miss Everdene's.
You had better take it on to him-Gabriel Oak-and say I opened it in mistake." At this moment, on the ridge, up against the blazing sky, a figure was visible, like the black snuff in the midst of a candle-flame.
Then it moved and began to bustle about vigorously from place to place, carrying square skeleton masses, which were riddled by the same rays.
A small figure on all fours followed behind.
The tall form was that of Gabriel Oak; the small one that of George; the articles in course of transit were hurdles. "Wait," said Boldwood.
That's the man on the hill.
I'll take the letter to him myself." To Boldwood it was now no longer merely a letter to another man.
Exhibiting a face pregnant with intention, he entered the snowy field. Gabriel, at that minute, descended the hill towards the right.
The glow stretched down in this direction now, and touched the distant roof of Warren's Malthouse-whither the shepherd was apparently bent.
The maltster's lack of teeth appeared not to sensibly diminish his powers as a mill.
He had been without them for so many years that toothlessness was felt less to be a defect than hard gums an acquisition.
But to think she can manage alone!
He allowed his head to swing laterally three or four times in silence.
Pride and vanity have ruined many a cobbler's dog.
There, 'twas to be, I suppose.
Liddy saith she've a new one." "Got a pianner?" "Ay.
Seems her old uncle's things were not good enough for her.
She've bought all but everything new.
Mr. Oak appeared in the entry with a steaming face, hay-bands wound about his ankles to keep out the snow, a leather strap round his waist outside the smock-frock, and looking altogether an epitome of the world's health and vigour.
I've been wet through twice a-day, either in snow or rain, this last fortnight.
Cainy and I haven't tined our eyes to-night." "A good few twins, too, I hear, so to speak it?" "Too many by half.
Yes; 'tis a very queer lambing this year.
We sha'n't have done by Lady Day." "And last year 'twer all over by Sexagessamine Sunday," Joseph remarked. "Bring on the rest, Cain," said Gabriel, "and then run back to the ewes.
I'll follow you soon." Cainy Ball-a cheery-faced young lad, with a small circular orifice by way of mouth, advanced and deposited two others, and retired as he was bidden.
And how is it with you to-day, malster?" "Oh, neither sick nor sorry, shepherd, but no younger." "Ay-I understand." "Sit down, Shepherd Oak," continued the ancient man of malt.
And how was the old place at Norcombe, when ye went for your dog?
I should like to see the old familiar spot; but faith, I shouldn't know a soul there now." "I suppose you wouldn't.
Ah! stirring times we live in-stirring times." "And you can mind the old well that used to be in the middle of the place?
That's turned into a solid iron pump with a large stone trough, and all complete." "Dear, dear-how the face of nations alter, and what great revolutions we live to see now-a-days!
Yes-and 'tis the same here.
Why ye know I wouldn't harm a worm-no, not one underground worm?" said Matthew Moon, looking very uneasy. "Well, somebody has-and look here, neighbours.
Gabriel, though one of the quietest and most gentle men on earth, rose to the occasion, with martial promptness and vigour.
A excellent fine thing for ye to be such a clever man, shepherd.
Joseph Poorgrass used to prent to Farmer James Everdene's waggons before you came, and 'a could never mind which way to turn the J's and E's-could ye, Joseph?
Joseph shook his head to express how absolute was the fact that he couldn't.
And so you used to do 'em the wrong way, like this, didn't ye, Joseph?
As to shepherd, there, I'm sure mis'ess ought to have made ye her baily-such a fitting man for't as you be." "I don't mind owning that I expected it," said Oak, frankly.
Indeed, I hoped for the place.
At the same time, Miss Everdene has a right to be her own baily if she chooses-and to keep me down to be a common shepherd only.
Oak, I thought you were here," he said.
I met the mail-cart ten minutes ago, and a letter was put into my hand, which I opened without reading the address.
I believe it is yours.
You must excuse the accident please." "O yes-not a bit of difference, Mr. Boldwood-not a bit," said Gabriel, readily.
I also return the money I owe you, which you will excuse my not keeping as a gift.
All has ended well, and I am happy to say I am going to be married to the young man who has courted me for some time-Sergeant Troy, of the 11th Dragoon Guards, now quartered in Melchester.
We mean to surprise Weatherbury by coming there soon as husband and wife, though I blush to state it to one nearly a stranger.
The sergeant grew up in Weatherbury. Thanking you again for your kindness, "I am, your sincere well-wisher, "FANNY ROBIN." "Have you read it, Mr. Boldwood?" said Gabriel; "if not, you had better do so.
A slight romance attaches to him, too.
His mother was a French governess, and it seems that a secret attachment existed between her and the late Lord Severn.
He stayed there for some time, and might have worked himself into a dignified position of some sort had he not indulged in the wild freak of enlisting.
Two more ewes have twinned-that's what's the matter, Shepherd Oak." "Oh, that's it," said Oak, jumping up, and dimissing for the present his thoughts on poor Fanny.
E.," which signified to all the region round that henceforth the lambs belonged to farmer Bathsheba Everdene, and to no one else. "Now, Cainy, shoulder your two, and off.
He followed him again with a last resolve, annihilating return. On approaching the nook in which the fold was constructed, the farmer drew out his pocket-book, unfastened it, and allowed it to lie open on his hand.
He now felt a strangely distressing qualm from a new thought.
You know it is always expected that privy inquiries will be made: that's where the-fun lies.
They were about to disperse, when a smart footstep, entering the porch and coming up the central passage, arrested their attention.
The step echoed with a ring unusual in a church; it was the clink of spurs.
A slight flush had mounted his cheek by the time he had run the gauntlet between these females; but, passing on through the chancel arch, he never paused till he came close to the altar railing.
Here for a moment he stood alone. The officiating curate, who had not yet doffed his surplice, perceived the new-comer and followed him to the communion-space.
He whispered to the soldier, and then beckoned to the clerk, who in his turn whispered to an elderly woman, apparently his wife, and they also went up the chancel steps. "'Tis a wedding!" murmured some of the women, brightening.
Let's wait!" The majority again sat down. There was a creaking of machinery behind, and some of the young ones turned their heads.
From the interior face of the west wall of the tower projected a little canopy with a quarter-jack and small bell beneath it, the automaton being driven by the same clock machinery that struck the large bell in the tower.
Between the tower and the church was a close screen, the door of which was kept shut during services, hiding this grotesque clockwork from sight.
He faced the south-east, and was as silent as he was still. The silence grew to be a noticeable thing as the minutes went on, and nobody else appeared, and not a soul moved.
At length there was a titter.
But the soldier never moved.
There he stood, his face to the south-east, upright as a column, his cap in his hand. The clock ticked on.
The women threw off their nervousness, and titters and giggling became more frequent.
Then came a dead silence.
Every one was waiting for the end.
Some persons may have noticed how extraordinarily the striking of quarters seems to quicken the flight of time.
It was hardly credible that the jack had not got wrong with the minutes when the rattle began again, the puppet emerged, and the four quarters were struck fitfully as before.
One could almost be positive that there was a malicious leer upon the hideous creature's face, and a mischievous delight in its twitchings.
Then followed the dull and remote resonance of the twelve heavy strokes in the tower above.
The women were impressed, and there was no giggle this time. The clergyman glided into the vestry, and the clerk vanished.
The sergeant had not yet turned; every woman in the church was waiting to see his face, and he appeared to know it.
At last he did turn, and stalked resolutely down the nave, braving them all, with a compressed lip.
The young man on leaving the door went to cross the square, when, in the middle, he met a little woman.
The expression of her face, which had been one of intense anxiety, sank at the sight of his nearly to terror. "Well?" he said, in a suppressed passion, without looking at her. "O, Frank-I made a mistake!
I thought that church with the spire was All Saints', and I was at the door at half-past eleven to a minute, as you said.
I waited till a quarter to twelve, and found then that I was in All Souls'.
But I wasn't much frightened, for I thought it could be to-morrow as well." "You fool, for so fooling me!
But say no more." "Shall it be to-morrow, Frank?" she asked blankly. "To-morrow!" and he gave vent to a hoarse laugh.
I don't go through that experience again for some time, I warrant you!" "But after all," she expostulated in a trembling voice, "the mistake was not such a terrible thing!
Now, dear Frank, when shall it be?" "Ah, when?
Adam had awakened from his deep sleep, and behold! there was Eve.
The farmer took courage, and for the first time really looked at her. Emotional causes and effects are not to be arranged in regular equation.
The result from capital employed in the production of any movement of a mental nature is sometimes as tremendous as the cause itself is absurdly minute.
He saw then the side of her eyelids, eyes, and lashes, and the shape of her ear.
To the best of his judgment neither nature nor art could improve this perfect one of an imperfect many.
His heart began to move within him.
Boldwood, it must be remembered, though forty years of age, had never before inspected a woman with the very centre and force of his glance; they had struck upon all his senses at wide angles. Was she really beautiful?
He could not assure himself that his opinion was true even now.
He furtively said to a neighbour, "Is Miss Everdene considered handsome?" "Oh, yes; she was a good deal noticed the first time she came, if you remember.
Boldwood was satisfied now. And this charming woman had in effect said to him, "Marry me.
Why should she have done that strange thing?
It was evident that such a nature as his had no attraction for a woman of Bathsheba's taste.
But Boldwood grew hot down to his hands with an incipient jealousy; he trod for the first time the threshold of "the injured lover's hell.
His first impulse was to go and thrust himself between them.
This could be done, but only in one way-by asking to see a sample of her corn.
His eyes, she knew, were following her everywhere.
This was a triumph; and had it come naturally, such a triumph would have been the sweeter to her for this piquing delay.
Over these, and lost to the eye gazing in from the outer light, the mouths of the same animals could be heard busily sustaining the above-named warmth and plumpness by quantities of oats and hay.
In this meditative walk his foot met the floor with heel and toe simultaneously, and his fine, reddish-fleshed face was bent downwards just enough to render obscure the still mouth and the well-rounded though rather prominent and broad chin.
A few clear and thread-like horizontal lines were the only interruption to the otherwise smooth surface of his large forehead. The phases of Boldwood's life were ordinary enough, but his was not an ordinary nature.
The quiet mean to which we originally found him adhering, and in which, with few exceptions, he had continually moved, was that of neutralization: it was not structural at all.
That stillness, which struck casual observers more than anything else in his character and habit, and seemed so precisely like the rest of inanition, may have been the perfect balance of enormous antagonistic forces-positives and negatives in fine adjustment.
His equilibrium disturbed, he was in extremity at once. Boldwood was thus either hot or cold.
If an emotion possessed him at all, it ruled him; a feeling not mastering him was entirely latent. Stagnant or rapid, it was never slow.
He was always hit mortally, or ho was missed.
The shallows in the characters of ordinary men were sterile strands in his, but his depths were so profound as to be practically bottomless. He had no light and careless touches in his constitution, either for good or for evil.
Stern in the outlines of action, mild in the details, he was serious throughout all.
Had she known Boldwood's moods, her blame would have been fearful, and the stain upon her heart ineradicable.
Moreover, had she known her present power for good or evil over this man, she would have trembled at her responsibility.
Luckily for her present, unluckily for her future tranquillity, her understanding had not yet told her what Boldwood was.
The wind, which had been blowing east for several weeks, had veered to the southward, and the middle of spring had come abruptly-almost without a beginning.
It was that period in the vernal quarter when we may suppose the Dryads to be waking for the season.
A man's body is as the shell, or the tablet, of his soul, as he is reserved or ingenuous, overflowing or self-contained.
There was a change in Boldwood's exterior from its former impassibleness; and his face showed that he was now living outside his defences for the first time, and with a fearful sense of exposure.
It is the usual experience of strong natures when they love. At last he arrived at a conclusion.
It was to go across and inquire boldly of her. The insulation of his heart by reserve during these many years, without a duct of any kind for disposable emotion, had worked its effect.
It has been observed more than once that the causes of love are chiefly subjective, and Boldwood was a living testimony to the truth of the proposition.
No mother existed to absorb his devotion, no sister for his tenderness, no idle ties for sense.
He became surcharged with the compound, which was genuine lover's love. He approached the gate of the meadow.
Beyond it the ground was melodious with ripples, and the sky with larks; the low bleating of the flock mingling with both.
Mistress and man were engaged in the operation of making a lamb "take," which is performed whenever an ewe has lost her own offspring, one of the twins of another ewe being given her as a substitute.
Gabriel, to whom her face was as the uncertain glory of an April day, was ever regardful of its faintest changes, and instantly discerned thereon the mark of some influence from without, in the form of a keenly self-conscious reddening.
He was still in the road, and by moving on he hoped that neither would recognize that he had originally intended to enter the field.
He passed by with an utter and overwhelming sensation of ignorance, shyness, and doubt.
Perhaps in her manner there were signs that she wished to see him-perhaps not-he could not read a woman.
The cabala of this erotic philosophy seemed to consist of the subtlest meanings expressed in misleading ways.
She collected the probabilities of the case, and concluded that she was herself responsible for Boldwood's appearance there.
But a resolution to avoid an evil is seldom framed till the evil is so far advanced as to make avoidance impossible. CHAPTER XIX. THE SHEEP-WASHING-THE OFFER Boldwood did eventually call upon her.
She was not at home.
Of course not," he murmured.
This, and the other oversights Boldwood was guilty of, were natural to the mood, and still more natural to the circumstances.
The great aids to idealization in love were present here: occasional observation of her from a distance, and the absence of social intercourse with her-visual familiarity, oral strangeness.
He had by this time grown used to being in love; the passion now startled him less even when it tortured him more, and he felt himself adequate to the situation.
To birds on the wing its glassy surface, reflecting the light sky, must have been visible for miles round as a glistening Cyclop's eye in a green face.
The grass about the margin at this season was a sight to remember long-in a minor sort of way.
Its activity in sucking the moisture from the rich damp sod was almost a process observable by the eye.
The outskirts of this level water-meadow were diversified by rounded and hollow pastures, where just now everything that was not a buttercup was a daisy, losing this character somewhat as they sank to the verge of the intervening river.
It slid along noiselessly as a shade, the swelling reeds and sedge forming a flexible palisade along its moist brink.
To the north of the mead were trees, the leaves of which were new, soft, moist, and flexible, not yet having stiffened and darkened under summer sun and drought, their colour being yellow beside a green, green beside a yellow.
A tributary of the main stream flowed through the basin of the pool by means of an inlet and outlet at opposite points of its diameter.
Flagons of cider were rolling about upon the green.
Bathsheba immediately contrived to withdraw, and glided along by the river till she was a stone's throw off: she heard footsteps brushing the grass, and had a consciousness that love was encircling her like a perfume.
Instead of turning or waiting, Bathsheba went further among the high sedges, but Boldwood seemed determined, and pressed on till they were completely past the bend of the river.
Here, without being seen, they could hear the splashing and shouts of the washers above. "Miss Everdene!" said the farmer. She trembled, turned, and said "Good morning.
His tone was so utterly removed from all she had expected as a beginning.
It was lowness and quiet accentuated: an emphasis of deep meanings, their form, at the same time, being scarcely expressed.
Silence has sometimes a remarkable power of showing itself as the disembodied soul of feeling wandering without its carcase, and it is then more impressive than speech.
In the same way, to say a little is often to tell more than to say a great deal.
I may have been called a confirmed bachelor, and I was a confirmed bachelor.
I had never any views of myself as a husband in my earlier days, nor have I made any calculation on the subject since I have been older.
But we all change, and my change, in this matter, came with seeing you.
I have felt lately, more and more, that my present way of living is bad in every respect.
I want you for my wife-so wildly that no other feeling can abide in me; but I should not have spoken out had I not been led to hope." The valentine again!
O that valentine!" she said to herself, but not a word to him. "If you can love me, say so, Miss Everdene.
If you will only pardon my thoughtlessness, I promise never to--" "No, no, no. Don't say thoughtlessness!
Make me think it was something more-that it was a sort of prophetic instinct-the beginning of a feeling that you would like me.
You torture me to say it was done in thoughtlessness-I never thought of it in that light, and I can't endure it.
I wish I knew how to win you! but that I can't do-I can only ask if I have already got you.
If I have not, and it is not true that you have come unwittingly to me as I have to you, I can say no more." "I have not fallen in love with you, Mr. Boldwood-certainly I must say that.
I fear I am too old for you, but believe me I will take more care of you than would many a man of your own age.
I will protect and cherish you with all my strength-I will indeed.
You shall have no cares-be worried by no household affairs, and live quite at ease, Miss Everdene.
The dairy superintendence shall be done by a man-I can afford it well-you shall never have so much as to look out of doors at hay-making time, or to think of weather in the harvest.
I rather cling to the chaise, because it is he same my poor father and mother drove, but if you don't like it I will sell it, and you shall have a pony-carriage of your own.
I cannot bear you to feel so much, and me to feel nothing.
And I am afraid they will notice us, Mr. Boldwood.
Will you let the matter rest now?
I did not know you were going to say this to me.
Oh, I am wicked to have made you suffer so!
She was frightened as well as agitated at his vehemence. "Say then, that you don't absolutely refuse.
Do not quite refuse!" "I can do nothing.
I cannot answer." "I may speak to you again on the subject?" "Yes." "I may think of you?" "Yes, I suppose you may think of me." "And hope to obtain you?" "No-do not hope!
Let us go on." "I will call upon you again to-morrow." "No-please not.
Give me time." "Yes-I will give you any time," he said earnestly and gratefully.
I am happier now." "No-I beg you!
Don't be happier if happiness only comes from my agreeing.
I must think." "I will wait," he said. And then she turned away.
Boldwood dropped his eyes to the ground, and stood long like a man who did not know where he was.
The rarest offerings of the purest loves are but a self-indulgence, and no generosity at all. Bathsheba, not being the least in love with him, was eventually able to look calmly at his offer.
It was one which many women of her own station in the neighbourhood, and not a few of higher rank, would have been wild to accept and proud to publish.
In every point of view, ranging from politic to passionate, it was desirable that she, a lonely girl, should marry, and marry this earnest, well-to-do, and respected man.
He was close to her doors: his standing was sufficient: his qualities were even supererogatory.
Had she felt, which she did not, any wish whatever for the married state in the abstract, she could not reasonably have rejected him as a woman who frequently appealed to her understanding for deliverance from her whims.
Boldwood as a means to marriage was unexceptionable: she esteemed and liked him: yet she did not want him.
It appears that men take wives because possession is not possible without marriage, and that women accept husbands because marriage is not possible without possession; with totally differing aims the method is the same on both sides.
But the understood incentive on the woman's part was wanting here.
Beyond the mentioned reasons with which she combated her objections, she had a strong feeling that having been the one who began the game, she ought in honesty to accept the consequences.
She said in the same breath that it would be ungenerous not to marry Boldwood, and that she couldn't do it to save her life. Bathsheba's was an impulsive nature under a deliberative aspect.
An Elizabeth in brain and a Mary Stuart in spirit, she often performed actions of the greatest temerity with a manner of extreme discretion. Many of her thoughts were perfect syllogisms; unluckily they always remained thoughts.
All the surrounding cottages were more or less scenes of the same operation; the scurr of whetting spread into the sky from all parts of the village as from an armoury previous to a campaign.
I'll turn the winch of the grindstone.
I want to speak to you, Gabriel." Cain departed, and Bathsheba took the handle.
Gabriel had glanced up in intense surprise, quelled its expression, and looked down again. Bathsheba turned the winch, and Gabriel applied the shears. The peculiar motion involved in turning a wheel has a wonderful tendency to benumb the mind.
It is a sort of attenuated variety of Ixion's punishment, and contributes a dismal chapter to the history of gaols.
The brain gets muddled, the head grows heavy, and the body's centre of gravity seems to settle by degrees in a leaden lump somewhere between the eyebrows and the crown.
Bathsheba felt the unpleasant symptoms after two or three dozen turns. "Will you turn, Gabriel, and let me hold the shears?" she said.
My head is in a whirl, and I can't talk." Gabriel turned.
Incline the edge so," he said. Hands and shears were inclined to suit the words, and held thus for a peculiarly long time by the instructor as he spoke. "That will do," exclaimed Bathsheba.
I won't have them held!
Why, there's nothing in it.
I have already tried to please you too much for my own good." Bathsheba regarded him with round-eyed perplexity.
And I could likewise give an opinion to you on what you have done." "I daresay.
It must be added, however, that time was very seldom gained.
At this period the single opinion in the parish on herself and her doings that she valued as sounder than her own was Gabriel Oak's.
And the outspoken honesty of his character was such that on any subject, even that of her love for, or marriage with, another man, the same disinterestedness of opinion might be calculated on, and be had for the asking.
Thoroughly convinced of the impossibility of his own suit, a high resolve constrained him not to injure that of another.
This is a lover's most stoical virtue, as the lack of it is a lover's most venial sin.
Knowing he would reply truly, she asked the question, painful as she must have known the subject would be.
Such is the selfishness of some charming women.
She then broke out,- "I may ask, I suppose, where in particular my unworthiness lies?
In my not marrying you, perhaps!" "Not by any means," said Gabriel quietly.
This was what she had been expecting, and what she had not got.
To be lectured because the lecturer saw her in the cold morning light of open-shuttered disillusion was exasperating.
He had not finished, either.
Nor will I for a minute.
Her nether lip quivered now. "Very well, so I will," said Gabriel calmly.
He had been held to her by a beautiful thread which it pained him to spoil by breaking, rather than by a chain he could not break.
I should be even better pleased to go at once," he added. "Go at once then, in Heaven's name!" said she, her eyes flashing at his, though never meeting them.
Laban Tall's lips were thin, and his face was rigid.
To come to me, and not go and get them out directly!
Oh, the stupid numskulls!" Her eyes were at their darkest and brightest now.
Having once received the stimulus that her presence always gave them, they went round among the sheep with a will.
The majority of the afflicted animals were lying down, and could not be stirred.
Sheep are such unfortunate animals!-there's always something happening to them!
I never knew a flock pass a year without getting into some scrape or other." "There's only one way of saving them," said Tall. "What way?
Tell me quick!" "They must be pierced in the side with a thing made on purpose." "Can you do it?
Can I?" "No, ma'am. We can't, nor you neither.
It must be done in a particular spot.
If ye go to the right or left but an inch you stab the ewe and kill her.
Not even a shepherd can do it, as a rule." "Then they must die," she said, in a resigned tone. "Only one man in the neighbourhood knows the way," said Joseph, now just come up.
He could cure 'em all if he were here." "Who is he?
Let's get him!" "Shepherd Oak," said Matthew.
Ah, he's a clever man in talents!" "Ah, that he is so!" said Joseph Poorgrass. "True-he's the man," said Laban Tall. "How dare you name that man in my presence!" she said excitedly.
I told you never to allude to him, nor shall you if you stay with me. Ah!" she added, brightening, "Farmer Boldwood knows!" "Oh no, ma'am," said Matthew.
Two of his store ewes got into some vetches t'other day, and were just like these.
He sent a man on horseback here posthaste for Gable, and Gable went and saved 'em. Farmer Boldwood hev got the thing they do it with.
Tis a holler pipe, with a sharp pricker inside.
Isn't it, Joseph?" "Ay-a holler pipe," echoed Joseph.
That's what 'tis." "Ay, sure-that's the machine," chimed in Henery Fray, reflectively, with an Oriental indifference to the flight of time. "Well," burst out Bathsheba, "don't stand there with your 'ayes' and your 'sures' talking at me!
Get somebody to cure the sheep instantly!" All then stalked off in consternation, to get somebody as directed, without any idea of who it was to be.
The leap was an astonishing one.
The ewe fell heavily, and lay still. Bathsheba went up to it.
The sheep was dead. "Oh, what shall I do-what shall I do!" she again exclaimed, wringing her hands.
I won't send for him.
No, I won't!" The most vigorous expression of a resolution does not always coincide with the greatest vigour of the resolution itself.
It is often flung out as a sort of prop to support a decaying conviction which, whilst strong, required no enunciation to prove it so.
The "No, I won't" of Bathsheba meant virtually, "I think I must." She followed her assistants through the gate, and lifted her hand to one of them.
He diminished down the hill. Bathsheba watched.
So did all the rest.
Tall cantered along the bridle-path through Sixteen Acres, Sheeplands, Middle Field, The Flats, Cappel's Piece, shrank almost to a point, crossed the bridge, and ascended from the valley through Springmead and Whitepits on the other side.
The cottage to which Gabriel had retired before taking his final departure from the locality was visible as a white spot on the opposite hill, backed by blue firs.
Bathsheba walked up and down.
The men entered the field and endeavoured to ease the anguish of the dumb creatures by rubbing them.
Nothing availed. Bathsheba continued walking.
The horse was seen descending the hill, and the wearisome series had to be repeated in reverse order: Whitepits, Springmead, Cappel's Piece, The Flats, Middle Field, Sheeplands, Sixteen Acres.
She hoped Tall had had presence of mind enough to give the mare up to Gabriel, and return himself on foot.
Joseph Poorgrass retired a few steps behind a hurdle. "He says he shall not come unless you request him to come civilly and in a proper manner, as becomes any person begging a favour." "Oh, ho, that's his answer!
Where does he get his airs?
Who am I, then, to be treated like that?
Shall I beg to a man who has begged to me?" Another of the flock sprang into the air, and fell dead. The men looked grave, as if they suppressed opinion. Bathsheba turned aside, her eyes full of tears.
The strait she was in through pride and shrewishness could not be disguised longer: she burst out crying bitterly; they all saw it; and she attempted no further concealment. "I wouldn't cry about it, miss," said William Smallbury, compassionately.
Why not ask him softer like?
I'm sure he'd come then. Gable is a true man in that way." Bathsheba checked her grief and wiped her eyes.
O, it is a wicked cruelty to me-it is-it is!" she murmured.
And he drives me to do what I wouldn't; yes, he does!-Tall, come indoors." After this collapse, not very dignified for the head of an establishment, she went into the house, Tall at her heels.
Here she sat down and hastily scribbled a note between the small convulsive sobs of convalescence which follow a fit of crying as a ground-swell follows a storm.
Gabriel was not angry, he was simply neutral, although her first command had been so haughty.
Such imperiousness would have damned a little less beauty; and on the other hand, such beauty would have redeemed a little less imperiousness. She went out when the horse was heard, and looked up.
A mounted figure passed between her and the sky, and went on towards the field of sheep, the rider turning his face in receding.
She knew from the look which sentence in her note had brought him.
Bathsheba followed to the field. Gabriel was already among the turgid, prostrate forms.
He had flung off his coat, rolled up his shirt-sleeves, and taken from his pocket the instrument of salvation.
It was a small tube or trochar, with a lance passing down the inside; and Gabriel began to use it with a dexterity that would have graced a hospital-surgeon.
Passing his hand over the sheep's left flank, and selecting the proper point, he punctured the skin and rumen with the lance as it stood in the tube; then he suddenly withdrew the lance, retaining the tube in its place.
Four had died; three recovered without an operation.
But this incurable loitering beside Bathsheba Everdene stole his time ruinously.
Every green was young, every pore was open, and every stalk was swollen with racing currents of juice.
God was palpably present in the country, and the devil had gone with the world to town.
None of these were clothed to any extent worth mentioning, each appearing to have hit in the matter of raiment the decent mean between a high and low caste Hindoo.
It not only emulated the form of the neighbouring church of the parish, but vied with it in antiquity.
Whether the barn had ever formed one of a group of conventual buildings nobody seemed to be aware; no trace of such surroundings remained.
The dusky, filmed, chestnut roof, braced and tied in by huge collars, curves, and diagonals, was far nobler in design, because more wealthy in material, than nine-tenths of those in our modern churches.
Unlike and superior to either of those two typical remnants of mediaevalism, the old barn embodied practices which had suffered no mutilation at the hands of time.
Here at least the spirit of the builders then was at one with the spirit of the beholder now.
For once mediaevalism and modernism had a common standpoint. The lanceolate windows, the time-eaten arch-stones and chamfers, the orientation of the axis, the misty chestnut work of the rafters, referred to no exploded fortifying art or worn-out religious creed.
Here the shearers knelt, the sun slanting in upon their bleached shirts, tanned arms, and the polished shears they flourished, causing them to bristle with a thousand rays strong enough to blind a weak-eyed man.
In comparison with cities, Weatherbury was immutable.
The citizen's _Then_ is the rustic's _Now_.
Five decades hardly modified the cut of a gaiter, the embroidery of a smock-frock, by the breadth of a hair.
Ten generations failed to alter the turn of a single phrase.
Gabriel, who flitted and hovered under her bright eyes like a moth, did not shear continuously, half his time being spent in attending to the others and selecting the sheep for them.
Like Guildenstern, Oak was happy in that he was not over happy.
He had no wish to converse with her: that his bright lady and himself formed one group, exclusively their own, and containing no others in the world, was enough. So the chatter was all on her side.
There is a loquacity that tells nothing, which was Bathsheba's; and there is a silence which says much: that was Gabriel's.
E." is newly stamped upon the shorn skin, and away the simple dam leaps, panting, over the board into the shirtless flock outside.
Nobody seemed to have perceived his entry, but there he certainly was.
He spoke to her in low tones, and she instinctively modulated her own to the same pitch, and her voice ultimately even caught the inflection of his.
Gabriel theorized, not without truth, that in quiet discussion of any matter within reach of the speakers' eyes, these are usually fixed upon it.
Bathsheba demurely regarded a contemptible straw lying upon the ground, in a way which suggested less ovine criticism than womanly embarrassment.
She became more or less red in the cheek, the blood wavering in uncertain flux and reflux over the sensitive space between ebb and flood.
Gabriel sheared on, constrained and sad. She left Boldwood's side, and he walked up and down alone for nearly a quarter of an hour.
But let it be, for 'tis a pity he and she should trouble two houses." As usual with decided characters, Bathsheba invariably provoked the criticism of individuals like Henery Fray.
Her emblazoned fault was to be too pronounced in her objections, and not sufficiently overt in her likings.
That wasn't too strong for her, say?" "Passably well put." "Yes; and I would have said it, had death and salvation overtook me for it.
Such is my spirit when I have a mind!" "A true man, and proud as a Lucifer." "You see the artfulness?
Why, 'twas about being baily really; but I didn't put it so plain that she could understand my meaning, so I could lay it on all the stronger.
That was my depth!... However, let her marry an she will.
But I may see a little distance into things.
To be long-headed enough for a baily's place is a poor mere trifle-yet a trifle more than nothing.
However, I look round upon life quite promiscuous.
Do you conceive me, neighbours?
My words, though made as simple as I can, may be rather deep for some heads." "Oh yes, Henery, we quite conceive ye." "A strange old piece, goodmen-whirled about from here to yonder, as if I were nothing worth.
But I have my depths; ha, and even my great depths!
I might close with a certain shepherd, brain to brain.
But no-Oh no!" "A strange old piece, ye say!" interposed the maltster, in a querulous voice.
At the same time ye be no old man worth naming-no old man at all.
Yer teeth baint half gone yet; and what's a old man's standing if so be his teeth baint gone?
Weren't I stale in wedlock afore ye were out of arms?
Malter, we feel ye to be a wonderful old veteran man, and nobody can gainsay it." "Nobody," said Joseph Poorgrass.
A perfect article I don't expect to get at my time of life.
If I could hear of such a thing 'twould do me more good than toast and ale." Coggan furnished a suitable reply.
Oak went on with his shearing, and said not another word.
Pestilent moods had come, and teased away his quiet.
Bathsheba had shown indications of anointing him above his fellows by installing him as the bailiff that the farm imperatively required.
He did not covet the post relatively to the farm: in relation to herself, as beloved by him and unmarried to another, he had coveted it.
His readings of her seemed now to be vapoury and indistinct.
His lecture to her was, he thought, one of the absurdest mistakes.
Far from coquetting with Boldwood, she had trifled with himself in thus feigning that she had trifled with another.
He was inwardly convinced that, in accordance with the anticipations of his easy-going and worse-educated comrades, that day would see Boldwood the accepted husband of Miss Everdene.
He adored Bathsheba just the same. "We workfolk shall have some lordly junketing to-night," said Cainy Ball, casting forth his thoughts in a new direction.
This morning I see 'em making the great puddens in the milking-pails-lumps of fat as big as yer thumb, Mister Oak!
I've never seed such splendid large knobs of fat before in the days of my life-they never used to be bigger than a horse-bean.
Yes; victuals and drink is a cheerful thing, and gives nerves to the nerveless, if the form of words may be used.
Miss Everdene sat inside the window, facing down the table.
She was thus at the head without mingling with the men. This evening Bathsheba was unusually excited, her red cheeks and lips contrasting lustrously with the mazy skeins of her shadowy hair.
She seemed to expect assistance, and the seat at the bottom of the table was at her request left vacant until after they had begun the meal.
She then asked Gabriel to take the place and the duties appertaining to that end, which he did with great readiness. At this moment Mr. Boldwood came in at the gate, and crossed the green to Bathsheba at the window.
And mistress is looking hard at ye, as much as to say, 'Sing at once, Joseph Poorgrass.'" "Faith, so she is; well, I must suffer it!... How do I bear her gaze?
They do sing' was a very taking paragraph." "Ay; and there was a pretty place at 'seeds of love,' and 'twas well let out.
Though 'love' is a nasty high corner when a man's voice is getting crazed.
Joseph perceived it, and with hectic cheeks of indignation instantly ceased singing.
Coggan boxed Bob's ears immediately. "Go on, Joseph-go on, and never mind the young scamp," said Coggan. "'Tis a very catching ballet.
Bathsheba still remained enthroned inside the window, and occupied herself in knitting, from which she sometimes looked up to view the fading scene outside.
The slow twilight expanded and enveloped them completely before the signs of moving were shown. Gabriel suddenly missed Farmer Boldwood from his place at the bottom of the table.
How long he had been gone Oak did not know; but he had apparently withdrawn into the encircling dusk.
Her singing was soft and rather tremulous at first, but it soon swelled to a steady clearness.
Yet there was nothing exceptional in his actions beyond what appertained to his time of performing them.
It was when the rest were all looking away that Boldwood observed her; when they regarded her he turned aside; when they thanked or praised he was silent; when they were inattentive he murmured his thanks.
Oak wandered away under the quiet and scented trees.
His body moved restlessly, and it was with what the poet calls a too happy happiness.
But remember this distinctly, I don't promise yet." "It is enough; I don't ask more.
I can wait on those dear words.
She had been awestruck at her past temerity, and was struggling to make amends without thinking whether the sin quite deserved the penalty she was schooling herself to pay.
To have brought all this about her ears was terrible; but after a while the situation was not without a fearful joy.
Here the only sounds disturbing the stillness were steady munchings of many mouths, and stentorian breathings from all but invisible noses, ending in snores and puffs like the blowing of bellows slowly.
By reason of the density of the interwoven foliage it was gloomy there at cloudless noontide, twilight in the evening, dark as midnight at dusk, and black as the ninth plague of Egypt at midnight.
Slipping along here covertly as Time, Bathsheba fancied she could hear footsteps entering the track at the opposite end.
It was certainly a rustle of footsteps.
Her own instantly fell as gently as snowflakes.
The instantaneous check nearly threw Bathsheba off her balance.
In recovering she struck against warm clothes and buttons. "A rum start, upon my soul!" said a masculine voice, a foot or so above her head.
His sudden appearance was to darkness what the sound of a trumpet is to silence.
Gloom, the _genius loci_ at all times hitherto, was now totally overthrown, less by the lantern light than by what the lantern lighted.
But she had obliquely noticed that he was young and slim, and that he wore three chevrons upon his sleeve. Bathsheba pulled again. "You are a prisoner, miss; it is no use blinking the matter," said the soldier, drily.
I must cut your dress if you are in such a hurry." "Yes-please do!" she exclaimed, helplessly. "It wouldn't be necessary if you could wait a moment;" and he unwound a cord from the little wheel.
She withdrew her own hand, but, whether by accident or design, he touched it.
She pulled again, and the gathers of her dress began to give way like lilliputian musketry. "I deserve such a chastisement your words give me.
But why should such a fair and dutiful girl have such an aversion to her father's sex?" "Go on your way, please." "What, Beauty, and drag you after me?
I insist upon undoing it.
Now, allow me!" "Certainly, miss; I am not of steel.
He added a sigh which had as much archness in it as a sigh could possess without losing its nature altogether.
I am thankful for beauty, even when 'tis thrown to me like a bone to a dog.
The thought was too dreadful.
The dress-which she had put on to appear stately at the supper-was the head and front of her wardrobe; not another in her stock became her so well.
Take it or leave it-be offended or like it-I don't care." "Who are you, then, who can so well afford to despise opinion?" "No stranger.
I am staying in this place.-There! it is undone at last, you see.
Your light fingers were more eager than mine. I wish it had been the knot of knots, which there's no untying!" This was worse and worse.
She started up, and so did he.
How to decently get away from him-that was her difficulty now.
He was here once in that way when the regiment was at Casterbridge." "Yes; that's the name.
Had he a moustache-no whiskers or beard?" "He had." "What kind of a person is he?" "Oh! miss-I blush to name it-a gay man!
But I know him to be very quick and trim, who might have made his thousands, like a squire.
Such a clever young dandy as he is!
He's a doctor's son by name, which is a great deal; and he's an earl's son by nature!" "Which is a great deal more.
And, he was brought up so well, and sent to Casterbridge Grammar School for years and years.
Ah! such a blessing it is to be high-born; nobility of blood will shine out even in the ranks and files.
And is he really come home, miss?" "I believe so.
Good-night, Liddy." After all, how could a cheerful wearer of skirts be permanently offended with the man?
There are occasions when girls like Bathsheba will put up with a great deal of unconventional behaviour.
And was ever anything so meanly done as what I did-to skulk away like that from a man who was only civil and kind!
Simply feeling, considering, and caring for what was before his eyes, he was vulnerable only in the present.
With him the past was yesterday; the future, to-morrow; never, the day after. On this account he might, in certain lights, have been regarded as one of the most fortunate of his order.
To set against this negative gain there may have been some positive losses from a certain narrowing of the higher tastes and sensations which it entailed.
Hence, whilst he sometimes reached the brilliant in speech because that was spontaneous, he fell below the commonplace in action, from inability to guide incipient effort.
Still less is it acted upon for the good of the complemental being alluded to.
With the majority such an opinion is shelved with all those trite aphorisms which require some catastrophe to bring their tremendous meanings thoroughly home.
When expressed with some amount of reflectiveness it seems co-ordinate with a belief that this flattery must be reasonable to be effective.
It is to the credit of men that few attempt to settle the question by experiment, and it is for their happiness, perhaps, that accident has never settled it for them.
And some-frequently those who are definable as middle-aged youths, though not always-profess to have attained the same knowledge by other and converse experiences, and jauntily continue their indulgence in such experiences with terrible effect.
He had been known to observe casually that in dealing with womankind the only alternative to flattery was cursing and swearing.
There was no third method.
Treat them fairly, and you are a lost man," he would say. This person's public appearance in Weatherbury promptly followed his arrival there.
A week or two after the shearing, Bathsheba, feeling a nameless relief of spirits on account of Boldwood's absence, approached her hayfields and looked over the hedge towards the haymakers.
I step across now to beg your forgiveness a thousand times for having been led by my feelings to express myself too strongly for a stranger.
To be sure I am no stranger to the place-I am Sergeant Troy, as I told you, and I have assisted your uncle in these fields no end of times when I was a lad.
I have been doing the same for you to-day." "I suppose I must thank you for that, Sergeant Troy," said the "Queen of the Corn-market," in an indifferently grateful tone. The sergeant looked hurt and sad.
Indeed you must not, Miss Everdene," he said.
Oh these intolerable times: that ill-luck should follow a man for honestly telling a woman she is beautiful!
Twas the most I said-you must own that; and the least I could say-that I own myself." "There is some talk I could do without more easily than money." "Indeed.
That remark seems somewhat digressive." "It means that I would rather have your room than your company." "And I would rather have curses from you than kisses from any other woman; so I'll stay here." Bathsheba was absolutely speechless.
And yet she could not help feeling that the assistance he was rendering forbade a harsh repulse. "Well," continued Troy, "I suppose there is a praise which is rudeness, and that may be mine.
At the same time there is a treatment which is injustice, and that may be yours.
I don't allow strangers to be bold and impudent-even in praise of me." "Ah-it is not the fact but the method which offends you," he said, carelessly.
But I have the sad satisfaction of knowing that my words, whether pleasing or offensive, are unmistakably true.
Would you have had me look at you, and tell my acquaintance that you are quite a commonplace woman, to save you the embarrassment of being stared at if they come near you?
You have a rare invention, Sergeant Troy.
Why couldn't you have passed by me that night, and said nothing?-that was all I meant to reproach you for." "Because I wasn't going to.
I won't listen to you-you are so profane!" she said, in a restless state between distress at hearing him and a _penchant_ to hear more. "I again say you are a most fascinating woman.
There's nothing remarkable in my saying so, is there?
I'm sure the fact is evident enough.
She paused. Capitulation-that was the purport of the simple reply, guarded as it was-capitulation, unknown to herself.
Never did a fragile tailless sentence convey a more perfect meaning.
The careless sergeant smiled within himself, and probably the devil smiled from a loop-hole in Tophet, for the moment was the turning-point of a career.
Never tell me that a young lady can live in a buzz of admiration without knowing something about it.
Ah, well, Miss Everdene, you are-pardon my blunt way-you are rather an injury to our race than otherwise." "How-indeed?" she said, opening her eyes. "Oh, it is true enough.
She can marry him: he is content, and leads a useful life.
Such women as you a hundred men always covet-your eyes will bewitch scores on scores into an unavailing fancy for you-you can only marry one of that many.
Men are such constant fools!
The rest may try to get over their passion with more or less success.
But all these men will be saddened.
And not only those ninety-nine men, but the ninety-nine women they might have married are saddened with them.
And then poor Bathsheba instantly perceived her slip in making this admission: in hastily trying to retrieve it, she went from bad to worse.
Still, there might have been some self-conceit in my foolish supposition the other night.
And I thank you for giving help here.
But-but mind you don't speak to me again in that way, or in any other, unless I speak to you." "Oh, Miss Bathsheba!
That is to hard!" "No, it isn't.
Why is it?" "You will never speak to me; for I shall not be here long.
I am soon going back again to the miserable monotony of drill-and perhaps our regiment will be ordered out soon.
And yet you take away the one little ewe-lamb of pleasure that I have in this dull life of mine.
But you can't really care for a word from me? you only say so-I think you only say so." "That's unjust-but I won't repeat the remark.
I am too gratified to get such a mark of your friendship at any price to cavil at the tone.
I _do_, Miss Everdene, care for it.
You may think a man foolish to want a mere word-just a good morning.
Perhaps he is-I don't know.
But you have never been a man looking upon a woman, and that woman yourself." "Well." "Then you know nothing of what such an experience is like-and Heaven forbid that you ever should." "Nonsense, flatterer!
There is no such sudden feeling in people.
I won't listen to you any longer.
Dear me, I wish I knew what o'clock it is-I am going-I have wasted too much time here already." The sergeant looked at his watch and told her.
What, haven't you a watch, miss?" he inquired. "I have not just at present-I am about to get a new one." "No. You shall be given one.
A gift, Miss Everdene-a gift." And before she knew what the young man was intending, a heavy gold watch was in her hand. "It is an unusually good one for a man like me to possess," he quietly said.
That watch has a history.
Press the spring and open the back." She did so. "What do you see?" "A crest and a motto." "A coronet with five points, and beneath, _Cedit amor rebus_-'Love yields to circumstance.
It's the motto of the Earls of Severn.
That watch belonged to the last lord, and was given to my mother's husband, a medical man, for his use till I came of age, when it was to be given to me.
It was all the fortune that ever I inherited.
That watch has regulated imperial interests in its time-the stately ceremonial, the courtly assignation, pompous travels, and lordly sleeps.
Now it is yours. "But, Sergeant Troy, I cannot take this-I cannot!" she exclaimed, with round-eyed wonder.
Don't be such a dissembler!" The sergeant retreated to avoid receiving back his gift, which she held out persistently towards him.
It is in far worthier hands than ever it has been in before." "But indeed I can't have it!" she said, in a perfect simmer of distress.
Oh, how can you do such a thing; that is if you really mean it!
Give me your dead father's watch, and such a valuable one!
You should not be so reckless, indeed, Sergeant Troy!" "I loved my father: good; but better, I love you more.
That's how I can do it," said the sergeant, with an intonation of such exquisite fidelity to nature that it was evidently not all acted now.
O, how can it be, that you care for me, and so suddenly!
You have seen so little of me: I may not be really so-so nice-looking as I seem to you.
Please, do take it; Oh, do!
I cannot and will not have it.
Believe me, your generosity is too great.
I have never done you a single kindness, and why should you be so kind to me?" A factitious reply had been again upon his lips, but it was again suspended, and he looked at her with an arrested eye.
The truth was, that as she now stood-excited, wild, and honest as the day-her alluring beauty bore out so fully the epithets he had bestowed upon it that he was quite startled at his temerity in advancing them as false.
He said mechanically, "Ah, why?" and continued to look at her. "And my workfolk see me following you about the field, and are wondering.
Don't deny me the happiness of wearing it for my sake?
But you are too lovely even to care to be kind as others are." "No, no; don't say so!
I have reasons for reserve which I cannot explain." "Let it be, then, let it be," he said, receiving back the watch at last; "I must be leaving you now.
And will you speak to me for these few weeks of my stay?" "Indeed I will.
Yet, I don't know if I will!
Oh, why did you come and disturb me so!" "Perhaps in setting a gin, I have caught myself.
Her heart erratically flitting hither and thither from perplexed excitement, hot, and almost tearful, she retreated homeward, murmuring, "Oh, what have I done! what does it mean!
I wish I knew how much of it was true!" CHAPTER XXVII. HIVING THE BEES The Weatherbury bees were late in their swarming this year.
It was in the latter part of June, and the day after the interview with Troy in the hayfield, that Bathsheba was standing in her garden, watching a swarm in the air and guessing their probable settling place.
Not only were they late this year, but unruly.
Bathsheba's eyes, shaded by one hand, were following the ascending multitude against the unexplorable stretch of blue till they ultimately halted by one of the unwieldy trees spoken of.
A process was observable somewhat analogous to that of alleged formations of the universe, time and times ago.
By the time she reached the bottom Troy was there also, and he stooped to pick up the hive. "How fortunate I am to have dropped in at this moment!" exclaimed the sergeant. She found her voice in a minute.
What! and will you shake them in for me?" she asked, in what, for a defiant girl, was a faltering way; though, for a timid girl, it would have seemed a brave way enough. "Will I!" said Troy.
Why, of course I will.
How blooming you are to-day!
Troy flung down his cane and put his foot on the ladder to ascend. "But you must have on the veil and gloves, or you'll be stung fearfully!" "Ah, yes.
I must put on the veil and gloves.
Then the veil had to be tied at its lower edge round his collar and the gloves put on him. He looked such an extraordinary object in this guise that, flurried as she was, she could not avoid laughing outright.
When the manoeuvre was complete he approached her.
Would you be good enough to untie me and let me out?
She had heard wondrous reports from time to time by dwellers in Weatherbury, who had by chance sojourned awhile in Casterbridge, near the barracks, of this strange and glorious performance, the sword-exercise.
Men and boys who had peeped through chinks or over walls into the barrack-yard returned with accounts of its being the most flashing affair conceivable; accoutrements and weapons glistening like stars-here, there, around-yet all by rule and compass.
So she said mildly what she felt strongly. "Yes; I should like to see it very much." "And so you shall; you shall see me go through it." "No!
How?" "Let me consider." "Not with a walking-stick-I don't care to see that.
It must be a real sword." "Yes, I know; and I have no sword here; but I think I could get one by the evening.
Now, will you do this?" Troy bent over her and murmured some suggestion in a low voice. "Oh no, indeed!" said Bathsheba, blushing.
Thank you very much, but I couldn't on any account. "Surely you might?
Nobody would know." She shook her head, but with a weakened negation.
If I were to," she said, "I must bring Liddy too.
Might I not?" Troy looked far away.
She had felt it, even whilst making the proposal. "Well, I won't bring Liddy-and I'll come.
It disappeared on the other side. She waited one minute-two minutes-thought of Troy's disappointment at her non-fulfilment of a promised engagement, tossed on her hat again, ran up the garden, clambered over the bank and followed the original direction.
She was now literally trembling and panting at this her temerity in such an errant undertaking; her breath came and went quickly, and her eyes shone with an infrequent light.
Yet go she must. She reached the verge of a pit in the middle of the ferns.
Standing in the centre, the sky overhead was met by a circular horizon of fern: this grew nearly to the bottom of the slope and then abruptly ceased.
They have seven cuts and three thrusts. So much as a preliminary.
Well, next, our cut one is as if you were sowing your corn-so.
Bathsheba saw a sort of rainbow, upside down in the air, and Troy's arm was still again.
Cut two, as if you were hedging-so.
Three, as if you were reaping-so.
Four, as if you were threshing-in that way.
Then the same on the left.
The thrusts are these: one, two, three, four, right; one, two, three, four, left.
Have 'em again?" he said.
One, two--" She hurriedly interrupted: "I'd rather not; though I don't mind your twos and fours; but your ones and threes are terrible!" "Very well.
I'll let you off the ones and threes.
Next, cuts, points and guards altogether.
Then there's pursuing practice, in this way.
He gave the movements as before. "There, those are the stereotyped forms.
The infantry have two most diabolical upward cuts, which we are too humane to use.
Like this-three, four." "How murderous and bloodthirsty!" "They are rather deathy.
Now I'll be more interesting, and let you see some loose play-giving all the cuts and points, infantry and cavalry, quicker than lightning, and as promiscuously-with just enough rule to regulate instinct and yet not to fetter it.
You are my antagonist, with this difference from real warfare, that I shall miss you every time by one hair's breadth, or perhaps two.
The third item of consciousness was that of seeing the same sword, perfectly clean and free from blood held vertically in Troy's hand (in the position technically called "recover swords").
All was as quick as electricity. "Oh!" she cried out in affright, pressing her hand to her side.
Have you run me through?-no, you have not!
Whatever have you done!" "I have not touched you," said Troy, quietly.
It was mere sleight of hand.
The sword passed behind you.
Now you are not afraid, are you? Because if you are I can't perform.
I give my word that I will not only not hurt you, but not once touch you." "I don't think I am afraid.
You are quite sure you will not hurt me?" "Quite sure." "Is the sword very sharp?" "Oh no-only stand as still as a statue.
Now!" In an instant the atmosphere was transformed to Bathsheba's eyes.
Beams of light caught from the low sun's rays, above, around, in front of her, well-nigh shut out earth and heaven-all emitted in the marvellous evolutions of Troy's reflecting blade, which seemed everywhere at once, and yet nowhere specially.
These circumambient gleams were accompanied by a keen sibilation that was almost a whistling-also springing from all sides of her at once.
Next, his movements lapsed slower, and she could see them individually.
The hissing of the sword had ceased, and he stopped entirely. "That outer loose lock of hair wants tidying, he said, before she had moved or spoken.
Wait: I'll do it for you." An arc of silver shone on her right side: the sword had descended.
The lock droped to the ground. "Bravely borne!" said Troy.
You didn't flinch a shade's thickness. Wonderful in a woman!" "It was because I didn't expect it.
Oh you have spoilt my hair!" "Only once more." "No-no!
I am afraid of you-indeed I am!" she cried. "I won't touch you at all-not even your hair.
I am only going to kill that caterpillar settling on you.
Now: still!" It appeared that a caterpillar had come from the fern and chosen the front of her bodice as his resting place.
She saw the point glisten towards her bosom, and seemingly enter it.
Bathsheba closed her eyes in the full persuasion that she was killed at last.
However, feeling just as usual, she opened them again. "There it is, look," said the sargeant, holding his sword before her eyes. The caterpillar was spitted upon its point. "Why, it is magic!" said Bathsheba, amazed. "Oh no-dexterity.
This sword will shave like a razor.
The risk of injuring you through your moving was too great not to compel me to tell you an untruth to obviate it." She shuddered.
And Troy returned the weapon to the scabbard. Bathsheba, overcome by a hundred tumultuous feelings resulting from the scene, abstractedly sat down on a tuft of heather. "I must leave you now," said Troy, softly.
She felt powerless to withstand or deny him.
He was altogether too much for her, and Bathsheba seemed as one who, facing a reviving wind, finds it blow so strongly that it stops the breath. He drew near and said, "I must be leaving you.
It had brought upon her a stroke resulting, as did that of Moses in Horeb, in a liquid stream-here a stream of tears.
She felt like one who has sinned a great sin. The circumstance had been the gentle dip of Troy's mouth downwards upon her own.
It was introduced as lymph on the dart of Eros, and eventually permeated and coloured her whole constitution.
Bathsheba, though she had too much understanding to be entirely governed by her womanliness, had too much womanliness to use her understanding to the best advantage.
When a strong woman recklessly throws away her strength she is worse than a weak woman who has never had any strength to throw away.
One source of her inadequacy is the novelty of the occasion.
She has never had practice in making the best of such a condition.
Weakness is doubly weak by being new. Bathsheba was not conscious of guile in this matter.
Of the fabricated tastes of good fashionable society she knew but little, and of the formulated self-indulgence of bad, nothing at all.
Had her utmost thoughts in this direction been distinctly worded (and by herself they never were) they would only have amounted to such a matter as that she felt her impulses to be pleasanter guides than her discretion.
Her love was entire as a child's, and though warm as summer it was fresh as spring.
Her culpability lay in her making no attempt to control feeling by subtle and careful inquiry into consciences.
Oak determined to speak to his mistress.
He would base his appeal on what he considered her unfair treatment of Farmer Boldwood, now absent from home. An opportunity occurred one evening when she had gone for a short walk by a path through the neighbouring corn-fields.
Two persons could not walk abreast without damaging the crop, and Oak stood aside to let her pass. "Oh, is it Gabriel?" she said.
You are taking a walk too.
But all at once the scheme broke down, it suddenly occurring to him that this was rather a clumsy way, and too barefaced to begin with.
He tried another preamble. "And as the man who would naturally come to meet you is away from home, too-I mean Farmer Boldwood-why, thinks I, I'll go," he said. "Ah, yes.
She walked on without turning her head, and for many steps nothing further was heard from her quarter than the rustle of her dress against the heavy corn-ears.
I didn't definitely promise Mr. Boldwood anything.
I have never cared for him.
I respect him, and he has urged me to marry him.
But I have given him no distinct answer.
I don't trifle with him; but then, I have nothing to do with him." Oak was unfortunately led on to speak of Boldwood's rival in a wrong tone to her after all.
I wish you had never met that young Sergeant Troy, miss," he sighed. Bathsheba's steps became faintly spasmodic.
Why?" she asked. "He is not good enough for you." "Did any one tell you to speak to me like this?" "Nobody at all." "Then it appears to me that Sergeant Troy does not concern us here," she said, intractably.
Yet I must say that Sergeant Troy is an educated man, and quite worthy of any woman.
He is well born." "His being higher in learning and birth than the ruck of soldiers is anything but a proof of his worth.
It shows his course to be downward." "I cannot see what this has to do with our conversation.
Mr. Troy's course is not by any means downward; and his superiority _is_ a proof of his worth!" "I believe him to have no conscience at all.
And I cannot help begging you, miss, to have nothing to do with him.
Listen to me this once-only this once!
I don't say he's such a bad man as I have fancied-I pray to God he is not.
But since we don't exactly know what he is, why not behave as if he _might_ be bad, simply for your own safety?
Don't trust him, mistress; I ask you not to trust him so." "Why, pray?" "I like soldiers, but this one I do not like," he said, sturdily.
His nature of his calling may have tempted him astray, and what is mirth to the neighbours is ruin to the woman.
When he tries to talk to you again, why not turn away with a short 'Good day,' and when you see him coming one way, turn the other.
When he says anything laughable, fail to see the point and don't smile, and speak of him before those who will report your talk as 'that fantastical man,' or 'that Sergeant What's-his-name.
Why he should be mentioned passes me quite!" she exclaimed desperately.
I know this, th-th-that he is a thoroughly conscientious man-blunt sometimes even to rudeness-but always speaking his mind about you plain to your face!" "Oh." "He is as good as anybody in this parish!
He is very particular, too, about going to church-yes, he is!" "I am afeard nobody saw him there.
I never did certainly." "The reason of that is," she said eagerly, "that he goes in privately by the old tower door, just when the service commences, and sits at the back of the gallery.
He told me so." This supreme instance of Troy's goodness fell upon Gabriel ears like the thirteenth stroke of a crazy clock.
It was not only received with utter incredulity as regarded itself, but threw a doubt on all the assurances that had preceded it. Oak was grieved to find how entirely she trusted him.
I only mention this to bring to your mind that at any rate I would wish to do you no harm: beyond that I put it aside.
I have lost in the race for money and good things, and I am not such a fool as to pretend to you now I am poor, and you have got altogether above me.
Do not remain on this farm any longer.
I don't want you-I beg you to go!" "That's nonsense," said Oak, calmly.
This is the second time you have pretended to dismiss me; and what's the use of it?" "Pretended!
You shall go, sir-your lecturing I will not hear!
I am mistress here." "Go, indeed-what folly will you say next?
Treating me like Dick, Tom and Harry when you know that a short time ago my position was as good as yours!
Upon my life, Bathsheba, it is too barefaced.
You know, too, that I can't go without putting things in such a strait as you wouldn't get out of I can't tell when.
Unless, indeed, you'll promise to have an understanding man as bailiff, or manager, or something.
I'll go at once if you'll promise that." "I shall have no bailiff; I shall continue to be my own manager," she said decisively. "Very well, then; you should be thankful to me for staying.
How would the farm go on with nobody to mind it but a woman?
But mind this, I don't wish you to feel you owe me anything.
What I do, I do. Sometimes I say I should be as glad as a bird to leave the place-for don't suppose I'm content to be a nobody.
I was made for better things. However, I don't like to see your concerns going to ruin, as they must if you keep in this mind....
I hate taking my own measures so plainly, but upon my life, your provoking ways make a man say what he wouldn't dream of at other times!
I own to being rather interfering.
At any rate she murmured something to the effect that he might stay if he wished.
She said more distinctly, "Will you leave me alone now?
I don't order it as a mistress-I ask it as a woman, and I expect you not to be so uncourteous as to refuse." "Certainly I will, Miss Everdene," said Gabriel, gently.
He wondered that the request should have come at this moment, for the strife was over, and they were on a most desolate hill, far from every human habitation, and the hour was getting late.
He stood still and allowed her to get far ahead of him till he could only see her form upon the sky. A distressing explanation of this anxiety to be rid of him at that point now ensued.
A figure apparently rose from the earth beside her. The shape beyond all doubt was Troy's.
Oak would not be even a possible listener, and at once turned back till a good two hundred yards were between the lovers and himself. Gabriel went home by way of the churchyard.
In passing the tower he thought of what she had said about the sergeant's virtuous habit of entering the church unperceived at the beginning of service.
Believing that the little gallery door alluded to was quite disused, he ascended the external flight of steps at the top of which it stood, and examined it.
It was a decisive proof that the door had not been opened at least since Troy came back to Weatherbury. CHAPTER XXX. HOT CHEEKS AND TEARFUL EYES Half an hour later Bathsheba entered her own house.
There burnt upon her face when she met the light of the candles the flush and excitement which were little less than chronic with her now.
The farewell words of Troy, who had accompanied her to the very door, still lingered in her ears.
He had bidden her adieu for two days, which were, so he stated, to be spent at Bath in visiting some friends.
She had expressed to Oak an intention to wait till Boldwood came home before communicating to him her conclusive reply.
She burst in upon them. "Who are you speaking of?" she asked. There was a pause before anybody replied.
At last Liddy said frankly," What was passing was a bit of a word about yourself, miss." "I thought so!
Maryann and Liddy and Temperance-now I forbid you to suppose such things.
You know I don't care the least for Mr. Troy-not I.
Everybody knows how much I hate him.-Yes," repeated the froward young person, "_hate_ him!" "We know you do, miss," said Liddy; "and so do we all." "I hate him too," said Maryann. "Maryann-O you perjured woman!
How can you speak that wicked story!" said Bathsheba, excitedly.
You admired him from your heart only this morning in the very world, you did.
Yes, Maryann, you know it!" "Yes, miss, but so did you.
He is a wild scamp now, and you are right to hate him." "He's _not_ a wild scamp!
How dare you to my face!
I have no right to hate him, nor you, nor anybody.
But I am a silly woman!
What is it to me what he is?
You know it is nothing.
I don't care for him; I don't mean to defend his good name, not I.
I am sorry we mistook you so!
Are you a woman yourself?" Liddy's clear eyes rounded with wonderment. "Yes; you must be a blind thing, Liddy!" she said, in reckless abandonment and grief.
Oh, I love him to very distraction and misery and agony!
Don't be frightened at me, though perhaps I am enough to frighten any innocent woman.
She put her arms round Liddy's neck.
I must let it out to somebody; it is wearing me away.
Don't you yet know enough of me to see through that miserable denial of mine?
O God, what a lie it was!
Heaven and my Love forgive me.
And don't you know that a woman who loves at all thinks nothing of perjury when it is balanced against her love?
There, go out of the room; I want to be quite alone." Liddy went towards the door. "Liddy, come here.
Solemnly swear to me that he's not a bad man; that it is all lies they say about him!" "But, miss, how can I say he is not if--" "You graceless girl.
How can you have the cruel heart to repeat what they say?
Unfeeling thing that you are....
But _I'll_ see if you or anybody else in the village, or town either, dare do such a thing!
She started off, pacing from fireplace to door, and back again. "No, miss. I don't-I know it is not true!" said Liddy, frightened at Bathsheba's unwonted vehemence. "I suppose you only agree with me like that to please me.
But, Liddy, he _cannot be_ bad, as is said.
Do you hear?" "Yes, miss, yes." "And you don't believe he is?" "I don't know what to say, miss," said Liddy, beginning to cry.
My poor life and heart, how weak I am!" she moaned, in a relaxed, desultory way, heedless of Liddy's presence.
Oh, how I wish I had never seen him!
Loving is misery for women always.
I shall never forgive my Maker for making me a woman, and dearly am I beginning to pay for the honour of owning a pretty face.
She freshened and turned to Liddy suddenly.
And, if you please, I'll go at the end of the harvest, or this week, or to-day....
I don't see that I deserve to be put upon and stormed at for nothing!" concluded the small woman, bigly. "No, no, Liddy; you must stay!" said Bathsheba, dropping from haughtiness to entreaty with capricious inconsequence.
You must not notice my being in a taking just now.
You are not as a servant-you are a companion to me.
Dear, dear-I don't know what I am doing since this miserable ache o' my heart has weighted and worn upon me so.
What shall I come to!
I suppose I shall get further and further into troubles.
I wonder sometimes if I am doomed to die in the Union.
Try to think him a good man, won't you, dear Liddy?" "I will, miss, indeed." "He is a sort of steady man in a wild way, you know.
That's better than to be as some are, wild in a steady way.
I am afraid that's how I am. And promise me to keep my secret-do, Liddy!
Do you know, I fancy you would be a match for any man when you are in one o' your takings." "Never! do you?" said Bathsheba, slightly laughing, though somewhat seriously alarmed by this Amazonian picture of herself.
I hope I am not a bold sort of maid-mannish?" she continued with some anxiety. "Oh no, not mannish; but so almighty womanish that 'tis getting on that way sometimes.
Ah! miss," she said, after having drawn her breath very sadly in and sent it very sadly out, "I wish I had half your failing that way.
Bathsheba's companion, as a gage of their reconciliation, had been granted a week's holiday to visit her sister, who was married to a thriving hurdler and cattle-crib-maker living in a delightful labyrinth of hazel copse not far from Yalbury.
Freshness was exhaled in an essence from the varied contours of bank and hollow, as if the earth breathed maiden breath, and the pleased birds were hymning to the scene.
Boldwood was stepping on, not with that quiet tread of reserved strength which was his customary gait, in which he always seemed to be balancing two thoughts.
His manner was stunned and sluggish now. Boldwood had for the first time been awakened to woman's privileges in the practice of tergiversation without regard to another's distraction and possible blight.
There are accents in the eye which are not on the tongue, and more tales come from pale lips than can enter an ear.
It is both the grandeur and the pain of the remoter moods that they avoid the pathway of sound.
Boldwood's look was unanswerable. Seeing she turned a little aside, he said, "What, are you afraid of me?" "Why should you say that?" said Bathsheba. "I fancied you looked so," said he.
And it is most strange, because of its contrast with my feeling for you." She regained self-possession, fixed her eyes calmly, and waited. "You know what that feeling is," continued Boldwood, deliberately.
A thing strong as death.
No dismissal by a hasty letter affects that." "I wish you did not feel so strongly about me," she murmured.
It is generous of you, and more than I deserve, but I must not hear it now." "Hear it?
What do you think I have to say, then?
I am not to marry you, and that's enough.
Your letter was excellently plain.
I want you to hear nothing-not I." Bathsheba was unable to direct her will into any definite groove for freeing herself from this fearfully awkward position.
She confusedly said, "Good-evening," and was moving on.
Boldwood walked up to her heavily and dully. "Bathsheba-darling-is it final indeed?" "Indeed it is." "Oh Bathsheba-have pity upon me!
God's sake, yes-I am come to that low, lowest stage-to ask a woman for pity!
Still, she is you-she is you." Bathsheba commanded herself well.
But she could hardly get a clear voice for what came instinctively to her lips: "There is little honour to the woman in that speech.
I am no stoic at all to be supplicating here; but I do supplicate to you.
I wish you knew what is in me of devotion to you; but it is impossible, that.
In bare human mercy to a lonely man, don't throw me off now!" "I don't throw you off-indeed, how can I?
In her noon-clear sense that she had never loved him she forgot for a moment her thoughtless angle on that day in February. "But there was a time when you turned to me, before I thought of you!
But, I say, there was a time when I knew nothing of you, and cared nothing for you, and yet you drew me on.
And if you say you gave me no encouragement, I cannot but contradict you." "What you call encouragement was the childish game of an idle minute.
I have bitterly repented of it-ay, bitterly, and in tears.
Can you still go on reminding me?" "I don't accuse you of it-I deplore it.
I took for earnest what you insist was jest, and now this that I pray to be jest you say is awful, wretched earnest.
Our moods meet at wrong places.
I wish your feeling was more like mine, or my feeling more like yours!
But it is weak, idle drivelling to go on like this....
Bathsheba, you are the first woman of any shade or nature that I have ever looked at to love, and it is the having been so near claiming you for my own that makes this denial so hard to bear.
How nearly you promised me!
Oh sweet-how dearly you spoke to me behind the spear-bed at the washing-pool, and in the barn at the shearing, and that dearest last time in the evening at your home!
Where are your pleasant words all gone-your earnest hope to be able to love me?
I was bound to show some feeling, if I would not be a graceless shrew. Yet each of those pleasures was just for the day-the day just for the pleasure.
How was I to know that what is a pastime to all other men was death to you?
Have reason, do, and think more kindly of me!" "Well, never mind arguing-never mind.
One thing is sure: you were all but mine, and now you are not nearly mine.
Everything is changed, and that by you alone, remember.
You were nothing to me once, and I was contented; you are now nothing to me again, and how different the second nothing is from the first!
Would to God you had never taken me up, since it was only to throw me down!" Bathsheba, in spite of her mettle, began to feel unmistakable signs that she was inherently the weaker vessel.
She strove miserably against this feminity which would insist upon supplying unbidden emotions in stronger and stronger current.
But don't be in this mood with me.
I can endure being told I am in the wrong, if you will only tell it me gently!
Oh sir, will you not kindly forgive me, and look at it cheerfully?" "Cheerfully!
Can a man fooled to utter heart-burning find a reason for being merry?
If I have lost, how can I be as if I had won?
Heavens, you must be heartless quite!
Had I known what a fearfully bitter sweet this was to be, how I would have avoided you, and never seen you, and been deaf of you.
I tell you all this, but what do you care!
Forget that you have said No, and let it be as it was.
Say, Bathsheba, that you only wrote that refusal to me in fun-come, say it to me!" "It would be untrue, and painful to both of us.
You overrate my capacity for love.
I don't possess half the warmth of nature you believe me to have.
An unprotected childhood in a cold world has beaten gentleness out of me." He immediately said with more resentment: "That may be true, somewhat; but ah, Miss Everdene, it won't do as a reason!
You are not the cold woman you would have me believe.
No, no. It isn't because you have no feeling in you that you don't love me.
You naturally would have me think so-you would hide from me that you have a burning heart like mine.
You have love enough, but it is turned into a new channel.
I know where." The swift music of her heart became hubbub now, and she throbbed to extremity.
He was coming to Troy.
He did then know what had transpired! And the name fell from his lips the next moment. "Why did Troy not leave my treasure alone?" he asked, fiercely.
When I had no thought of injuring him, why did he force himself upon your notice!
Before he worried you your inclination was to have me; when next I should have come to you your answer would have been Yes.
Can you deny it-I ask, can you deny it?" She delayed the reply, but was too honest to withhold it.
I cannot," she whispered. "I know you cannot.
But he stole in in my absence and robbed me.
Why didn't he win you away before, when nobody would have been grieved?-when nobody would have been set tale-bearing.
Now the people sneer at me-the very hills and sky seem to laugh at me till I blush shamefuly for my folly.
I have lost my respect, my good name, my standing-lost it, never to get it again.
Go and marry your man-go on!" "Oh sir-Mr. Boldwood!" "You may as well.
I have no further claim upon you.
As for me, I had better go somewhere alone, and hide-and pray.
I loved a woman once.
When I am dead they'll say, miserable love-sick man that he was.
Heaven-heaven-if I had got jilted secretly, and the dishonour not known, and my position kept!
But no matter, it is gone, and the woman not gained.
Dazzled by brass and scarlet-Oh Bathsheba-this is woman's folly indeed!" She fired up at once.
You are taking too much upon yourself!" she said, vehemently.
It is unmanly to attack a woman so!
I have nobody in the world to fight my battles for me; but no mercy is shown.
Yet if a thousand of you sneer and say things against me, I _will not_ be put down!" "You'll chatter with him doubtless about me.
Say to him, 'Boldwood would have died for me.
Yes, and you have given way to him, knowing him to be not the man for you.
He has kissed you-claimed you as his.
Do you hear-he has kissed you.
Deny it!" The most tragic woman is cowed by a tragic man, and although Boldwood was, in vehemence and glow, nearly her own self rendered into another sex, Bathsheba's cheek quivered.
She gasped, "Leave me, sir-leave me!
I am nothing to you.
Let me go on!" "Deny that he has kissed you." "I shall not." "Ha-then he has!" came hoarsely from the farmer. "He has," she said, slowly, and, in spite of her fear, defiantly.
I am not ashamed to speak the truth." "Then curse him; and curse him!" said Boldwood, breaking into a whispered fury.
Oh, be kind to him, sir, for I love him true!" Boldwood's ideas had reached that point of fusion at which outline and consistency entirely disappear.
The impending night appeared to concentrate in his eye.
He did not hear her at all now. "I'll punish him-by my soul, that will I!
I'll meet him, soldier or no, and I'll horsewhip the untimely stripling for this reckless theft of my one delight.
If he were a hundred men I'd horsewhip him....
He dropped his voice suddenly and unnaturally.
Bathsheba, sweet, lost coquette, pardon me!
I've been blaming you, threatening you, behaving like a churl to you, when he's the greatest sinner.
He stole your dear heart away with his unfathomable lies!... It is a fortunate thing for him that he's gone back to his regiment-that he's in Melchester, and not here!
I hope he may not return here just yet.
I pray God he may not come into my sight, for I may be tempted beyond myself.
Such astounding wells of fevered feeling in a still man like Mr. Boldwood were incomprehensible, dreadful.
She panted with solicitude when she thought of possible injury to Troy.
But now there was no reserve.
In fer her distraction, instead of advancing further, she walked up and down, beating the air with her fingers, pressing her brow, and sobbing brokenly to herself.
Then she sat down on a heap of stones by the wayside to think.
She gazed upon their silent throes amid the shades of space, but realized none at all.
Her troubled spirit was far away with Troy. CHAPTER II. NIGHT-HORSES TRAMPING The village of Weatherbury was quiet as the graveyard in its midst, and the living were lying well-nigh as still as the dead.
The church clock struck eleven.
The air was so empty of other sounds that the whirr of the clock-work immediately before the strokes was distinct, and so was also the click of the same at their close.
A few minutes after eleven had struck, Maryann turned in her bed with a sense of being disturbed.
She was totally unconscious of the nature of the interruption to her sleep.
It led to a dream, and the dream to an awakening, with an uneasy sensation that something had happened.
The figure seized the horse by the forelock, and led it to the corner of the field.
They were a woman and a gipsy man.
She hastily slipped on her clothes, stumped down the disjointed staircase with its hundred creaks, ran to Coggan's, the nearest house, and raised an alarm.
Coggan called Gabriel, who now again lodged in his house as at first, and together they went to the paddock.
Beyond all doubt the horse was gone. "Listen!" said Gabriel. They listened.
Distinct upon the stagnant air came the sounds of a trotting horse passing up Weatherbury Hill-just beyond the gipsies' encampment in Weatherbury Bottom. "That's our Dainty-I'll swear to her step," said Jan. "Mighty me!
Won't mis'ess storm and call us stupids wen she comes back!" moaned Maryann.
How I wish it had happened when she was at home, and none of us had been answerable!" "We must ride after," said Gabriel, decisively.
I'll be responsible to Miss Everdene for what we do.
Yes, we'll follow." "Faith, I don't see how," said Coggan.
He ran down the hill towards Farmer Boldwood's. "Farmer Boldwood is not at home," said Maryann. "All the better," said Coggan.
I knew where they were kept," said Gabriel, following him.
Having neither bit nor bridle, Oak and Coggan extemporized the former by passing the rope in each case through the animal's mouth and looping it on the other side.
Oak vaulted astride, and Coggan clambered up by aid of the bank, when they ascended to the gate and galloped off in the direction taken by Bathsheha's horse and the robber.
Whose vehicle the horse had been harnessed to was a matter of some uncertainty. Weatherbury Bottom was reached in three or four minutes.
They scanned the shady green patch by the roadside.
The gipsies were gone. "The villains!" said Gabriel.
Which way have they gone, I wonder?" "Straight on, as sure as God made little apples," said Jan. "Very well; we are better mounted, and must overtake overtake 'em," said Oak.
Now, on at full speed!" No sound of the rider in their van could now be discovered.
The road-metal grew softer and more clayey as Weatherbury was left behind, and the late rain had wetted its surface to a somewhat plastic, but not muddy state.
Coggan suddenly pulled up Moll and slipped off. "What's the matter?" said Gabriel. "We must try to track 'em, since we can't hear 'em," said Jan, fumbling in his pockets.
One set of tracks was fresh and had no water in them; one pair of ruts was also empty, and not small canals, like the others.
The footprints forming this recent impression were full of information as to pace; they were in equidistant pairs, three or four feet apart, the right and left foot of each pair being exactly opposite one another. "Straight on!
Tracks like that mean a stiff gallop.
No wonder we don't hear him.
You saw there were no other tracks?" "Trew.
They rode along silently for a long weary time.
He lighted another match, and examined the ground again. "'Tis a canter now," he said, throwing away the light.
A twisty, rickety pace for a gig.
The fact is, they overdrove her at starting; we shall catch them yet." Again they hastened on.
When they looked again the hoof-marks were so spaced as to form a sort of zigzag if united, like the lamps along a street. "That's a trot, I know," said Gabriel. "Only a trot now," said Coggan, cheerfully.
We shall overtake him in time." They pushed rapidly on for yet two or three miles.
Ah! a moment," said Jan. "Let's see how she was driven up this hill.
A light was promptly struck upon his gaiters as before, and the examination made. "Hurrah!" said Coggan.
She walked up here-and well she might.
We shall get them in two miles, for a crown." They rode three, and listened.
No sound was to be heard save a mill-pond trickling hoarsely through a hatch, and suggesting gloomy possibilities of drowning by jumping in. Gabriel dismounted when they came to a turning.
Coggan, who, no less than the panting horses, had latterly shown signs of weariness, again scrutinized the mystic characters.
This time only three were of the regular horseshoe shape.
Every fourth was a dot. He screwed up his face and emitted a long "whew-w-w!" "Lame," said Oak. "Yes.
The last turning had brought them into the high road leading to Bath.
Coggan recollected himself. "We shall have him now!" he exclaimed. "Where?" "Pettiton Turnpike.
The keeper of that gate is the sleepiest man between here and London-Dan Randall, that's his name-knowed en for years, when he was at Casterbridge gate.
Between the lameness and the gate 'tis a done job." They now advanced with extreme caution.
The silence of this lonely time was pierced by an exclamation from that quarter. "Hoy-a-hoy!
Gate!" It appeared that there had been a previous call which they had not noticed, for on their close approach the door of the turnpike-house opened, and the keeper came out half-dressed, with a candle in his hand.
The rays illumined the whole group. "Keep the gate close!" shouted Gabriel.
An important matter made it necessary for me to give up my visit to Liddy, and go off at once.
What, then, were you following me?" "We thought the horse was stole." "Well-what a thing!
How very foolish of you not to know that I had taken the trap and horse.
I could neither wake Maryann nor get into the house, though I hammered for ten minutes against her window-sill. Fortunately, I could get the key of the coach-house, so I troubled no one further.
Didn't you think it might be me?" "Why should we, miss?" "Perhaps not.
Why, those are never Farmer Boldwood's horses!
She added with a very pretty grace, "Well, I really thank you heartily for taking all this trouble; but I wish you had borrowed anybody's horses but Mr. Boldwood's." "Dainty is lame, miss," said Coggan.
Can ye go on?" "It was only a stone in her shoe.
I dismounted and pulled it out a hundred yards back.
I can manage very well, thank you.
I shall be in Bath by daylight.
Will you now return, please?" She turned her head-the gateman's candle shimmering upon her quick, clear eyes as she did so-passed through the gate, and was soon wrapped in the embowering shades of mysterious summer boughs.
Coggan, suppose we keep this night's work as quiet as we can?" "I am of one and the same mind." "Very well.
The first was merely to keep Troy away from Weatherbury till Boldwood's indignation had cooled; the second to listen to Oak's entreaties, and Boldwood's denunciations, and give up Troy altogether. Alas!
She would see him at once.
Yes, she would implore him by word of mouth to assist her in this dilemma.
The only way to accomplish her purpose was to give up her idea of visiting Liddy at Yalbury, return to Weatherbury Farm, put the horse into the gig, and drive at once to Bath.
Bathsheba was full of a stimulating turbulence, beside which caution vainly prayed for a hearing.
She turned back towards the village. Her walk was slow, for she wished not to enter Weatherbury till the cottagers were in bed, and, particularly, till Boldwood was secure.
The oat-harvest began, and all the men were afield under a monochromatic Lammas sky, amid the trembling air and short shadows of noon.
Indoors nothing was to be heard save the droning of blue-bottle flies; out-of-doors the whetting of scythes and the hiss of tressy oat-ears rubbing together as their perpendicular stalks of amber-yellow fell heavily to each swath.
Every drop of moisture not in the men's bottles and flagons in the form of cider was raining as perspiration from their foreheads and cheeks.
Breaking a key is a dreadful bodement.
When he came close, his mouth assumed the bell shape, and he began to cough violently. "Now, Cainy!" said Gabriel, sternly.
How many more times must I tell you to keep from running so fast when you are eating?
You'll choke yourself some day, that's what you'll do, Cain Ball." "Hok-hok-hok!" replied Cain.
A crumb of my victuals went the wrong way-hok-hok!
That's what 'tis, Mister Oak!
And I've been visiting to Bath because I had a felon on my thumb; yes, and I've seen-ahok-hok!" Directly Cain mentioned Bath, they all threw down their hooks and forks and drew round him.
Something is always going the wrong way down your throat, so that you can't tell what's necessary to be told." "Ahok! there!
Please, Mister Oak, a gnat have just flewed into my stomach and brought the cough on again!" "Yes, that's just it.
And a great history on hand, too.
Bump his back, shepherd." "'Tis my nater." mourned Cain.
Mother says I always was so excitable when my feelings were worked up to a point." "True, true," said Joseph Poorgrass.
The Balls were always a very excitable family.
I knowed the boy's grandfather-a truly nervous and modest man, even to genteel refinement.
Twas blush, blush with him, almost as much as 'tis with me-not but that 'tis a fault in me." "Not at all, Master Poorgrass," said Coggan.
Tis a very noble quality in ye." "Heh-heh! well, I wish to noise nothing abroad-nothing at all," murmured Poorgrass, diffidently.
But we are born to things-that's true.
Yet I would rather my trifle were hid; though, perhaps, a high nater is a little high, and at my birth all things were possible to my Maker, and he may have begrudged no gifts....
But under your bushel, Joseph! under your bushel with you!
A strange desire, neighbours, this desire to hide, and no praise due.
A Quarrington grafted on a Tom Putt, and a Rathe-ripe upon top o' that again.
And I think the soldier was Sergeant Troy.
And they sat there together for more than half-an-hour, talking moving things, and she once was crying almost to death.
And when they came out her eyes were shining and she was as white as a lily; and they looked into one another's faces, as desperately friendly as a man and woman can be." Gabriel's features seemed to get thinner.
Well, what did you see besides?" "Oh, all sorts." "White as a lily?
You are sure 'twas she? "Yes." "Well, what besides?" "Great glass windows to the shops, and great clouds in the sky, full of rain, and old wooden trees in the country round." "You stun-poll!
What will ye say next?" said Coggan. "Let en alone," interposed Joseph Poorgrass.
The boy's maning is that the sky and the earth in the kingdom of Bath is not altogether different from ours here.
And when the sun shone upon the bright gown and his red coat-my! how handsome they looked.
And I went to grand churches and chapels.
And how the parson would pray!
And as good a man as ever walked.
I don't believe poor Thirdly have a single one, even of humblest tin or copper. Such a great ornament as they'd be to him on a dull afternoon, when he's up in the pulpit lighted by the wax candles!
But 'tis impossible, poor man.
Ah, to think how unequal things be." "Perhaps he's made of different stuff than to wear 'em," said Gabriel, grimly.
Well, that's enough of this.
Our mis'ess has too much sense under those knots of black hair to do such a mad thing." "You see, he's not a coarse, ignorant man, for he was well brought up," said Matthew, dubiously.
Tis a horrible testament mind ye, which you say and seal with your blood-stone, and the prophet Matthew tells us that on whomsoever it shall fall it will grind him to powder.
Now, before all the work-folk here assembled, can you swear to your words as the shepherd asks ye?" "Please no, Mister Oak!" said Cainy, looking from one to the other with great uneasiness at the spiritual magnitude of the position.
I don't mind saying 'tis true, but I don't like to say 'tis d-- true, if that's what you mane." "Cain, Cain, how can you!" asked Joseph sternly.
You are asked to swear in a holy manner, and you swear like wicked Shimei, the son of Gera, who cursed as he came.
Young man, fie!" "No, I don't!
Tis you want to squander a pore boy's soul, Joseph Poorgrass-that's what 'tis!" said Cain, beginning to cry.
Gabriel, without making any pretence of being lively, did nothing to show that he was particularly dull.
However, Coggan knew pretty nearly how the land lay, and when they were in a nook together he said- "Don't take on about her, Gabriel.
From it spread the tones of two women talking.
The tones were natural and not at all suppressed.
Oak instantly knew the voices to he those of Bathsheba and Liddy. The carriage came opposite and passed by.
It was Miss Everdene's gig, and Liddy and her mistress were the only occupants of the seat.
Liddy was asking questions about the city of Bath, and her companion was answering them listlessly and unconcernedly.
Both Bathsheba and the horse seemed weary. The exquisite relief of finding that she was here again, safe and sound, overpowered all reflection, and Oak could only luxuriate in the sense of it.
All grave reports were forgotten. He lingered and lingered on, till there was no difference between the eastern and western expanses of sky, and the timid hares began to limp courageously round the dim hillocks.
Gabriel might have been there an additional half-hour when a dark form walked slowly by.
Good-night, Gabriel," the passer said. It was Boldwood.
Good-night, sir," said Gabriel. Boldwood likewise vanished up the road, and Oak shortly afterwards turned indoors to bed. Farmer Boldwood went on towards Miss Everdene's house.
He reached the front, and approaching the entrance, saw a light in the parlour.
The blind was not drawn down, and inside the room was Bathsheba, looking over some papers or letters.
Her back was towards Boldwood.
He went to the door, knocked, and waited with tense muscles and an aching brow. Boldwood had not been outside his garden since his meeting with Bathsheba in the road to Yalbury.
Silent and alone, he had remained in moody meditation on woman's ways, deeming as essentials of the whole sex the accidents of the single one of their number he had ever closely beheld.
By degrees a more charitable temper had pervaded him, and this was the reason of his sally to-night.
Liddy's manner was odd, but he did not notice it.
She went in, leaving him standing there, and in her absence the blind of the room containing Bathsheba was pulled down.
Boldwood augured ill from that sign.
Liddy came out. "My mistress cannot see you, sir," she said. The farmer instantly went out by the gate.
He was unforgiven-that was the issue of it all.
It was ten o'clock at least, when, walking deliberately through the lower part of Weatherbury, he heard the carrier's spring-van entering the village.
The van ran to and from a town in a northern direction, and it was owned and driven by a Weatherbury man, at the door of whose house it now pulled up.
Boldwood was moved by a sudden determination.
In ten minutes he was back again, and made as if he were going to call upon Troy at the carrier's. But as he approached, some one opened the door and came out.
He heard this person say "Good-night" to the inmates, and the voice was Troy's. This was strange, coming so immediately after his arrival.
Boldwood, however, hastened up to him.
Troy had what appeared to be a carpet-bag in his hand-the same that he had brought with him.
It seemed as if he were going to leave again this very night. Troy turned up the hill and quickened his pace.
He remembered it was past ten o'clock.
I may say, too, that I believe I am the only person in the village, excepting Gabriel Oak, who does know it.
You ought to marry her." "I suppose I ought.
Indeed, I wish to, but I cannot." "Why?" Troy was about to utter something hastily; he then checked himself and said, "I am too poor.
Previously it had had a devil-may-care tone.
It was the voice of a trickster now. Boldwood's present mood was not critical enough to notice tones.
He continued, "I may as well speak plainly; and understand, I don't wish to enter into the questions of right or wrong, woman's honour and shame, or to express any opinion on your conduct.
I intend a business transaction with you." "I see," said Troy.
If you had not seen her you might have been married to Fanny.
Well, there's too much difference between Miss Everdene's station and your own for this flirtation with her ever to benefit you by ending in marriage.
So all I ask is, don't molest her any more.
I'll make it worth your while." "How will you?" "I'll pay you well now, I'll settle a sum of money upon her, and I'll see that you don't suffer from poverty in the future.
His manner had lapsed quite from that of the firm and dignified Boldwood of former times; and such a scheme as he had now engaged in he would have condemned as childishly imbecile only a few months ago.
We discern a grand force in the lover which he lacks whilst a free man; but there is a breadth of vision in the free man which in the lover we vainly seek.
Where there is much bias there must be some narrowness, and love, though added emotion, is subtracted capacity.
But she's only a servant." "Never mind-do you agree to my arrangement?" "I do." "Ah!" said Boldwood, in a more elastic voice.
Oh Troy, if you like her best, why then did you step in here and injure my happiness?" "I love Fanny best now," said Troy.
But Bathsh--Miss Everdene inflamed me, and displaced Fanny for a time.
It is over now." "Why should it be over so soon?
And why then did you come here again?" "There are weighty reasons.
Fifty pounds at once, you said?" "I did," said Boldwood, "and here they are-fifty sovereigns.
I must go on and meet her." "She-who?" "Bathsheba." "Bathsheba-out alone at this time o' night!" said Boldwood in amazement, and starting up.
You shall hear all I say to her.
Now sit still there, and hold my carpet bag for me, and mark what you hear." The light footstep came closer, halting occasionally, as if the walker listened for a sound.
Troy whistled a double note in a soft, fluty tone. "Come to that, is it!" murmured Boldwood, uneasily. "You promised silence," said Troy. "I promise again." Troy stepped forward. "Frank, dearest, is that you?
The tones were Bathsheba's. "O God!" said Boldwood. "Yes," said Troy to her. "How late you are," she continued, tenderly.
Did you come by the carrier?
I listened and heard his wheels entering the village, but it was some time ago, and I had almost given you up, Frank." "I was sure to come," said Frank.
You knew I should, did you not?" "Well, I thought you would," she said, playfully; "and, Frank, it is so lucky!
There's not a soul in my house but me to-night.
I've packed them all off, so nobody on earth will know of your visit to your lady's bower.
But, dear me, I had better go back for my bag: you run home whilst I fetch it, and I'll promise to be in your parlour in ten minutes." "Yes.
She turned and tripped up the hill again. During the progress of this dialogue there was a nervous twitching of Boldwood's tightly closed lips, and his face became bathed in a clammy dew.
He now started forward towards Troy.
Troy turned to him and took up the bag. "Shall I tell her I have come to give her up and cannot marry her?" said the soldier, mockingly. "No, no; wait a minute.
I want to say more to you-more to you," said Boldwood, in a hoarse whisper. "Now," said Troy," you see my dilemma.
Perhaps I am a bad man-the victim of my impulses-led away to do what I ought to leave undone.
I can't, however, marry them both.
And I have two reasons for choosing Fanny.
First, I like her best upon the whole, and second, you make it worth my while." At the same instant Boldwood sprang upon him, and held him by the neck. Troy felt Boldwood's grasp slowly tightening.
The move was absolutely unexpected. "A moment," he gasped.
He reluctantly released the soldier, and flung him back against the hedge.
Devil, you torture me!" said he. Troy rebounded like a ball, and was about to make a dash at the farmer; but he checked himself, saying lightly,- "It is not worth while to measure my strength with you.
Indeed it is a barbarous way of settling a quarrel.
I shall shortly leave the army because of the same conviction.
She must love you indeed to sell soul and body to you so utterly as she has done.
I could do anything with poor Fanny Robin." "Troy," said Boldwood, imploringly," I'll do anything for you, only don't desert her; pray don't desert her, Troy." "Which, poor Fanny?" "No; Bathsheba Everdene.
How shall I get you to see how advantageous it will be to you to secure her at once?" "I don't wish to secure her in any new way." Boldwood's arm moved spasmodically towards Troy's person again.
He repressed the instinct, and his form drooped as with pain. Troy went on,- "I shall soon purchase my discharge, and then--" "But I wish you to hasten on this marriage.
It will be better for you both.
You love each other, and you must let me help you to do it." "How?" "Why, by settling the five hundred on Bathsheba instead of Fanny, to enable you to marry at once.
No; she wouldn't have it of me.
I'll pay it down to you on the wedding-day." Troy paused in secret amazement at Boldwood's wild and purblind infatuation.
He carelessly said, "And am I to have anything now?" "Yes, if you wish to.
But I have not much additional money with me.
Two notes and a sovereign.
But before I leave you I must have a paper signed--" "Pay me the money, and we'll go straight to her parlour, and make any arrangement you please to secure my compliance with your wishes.
But she must know nothing of this cash business." "Nothing, nothing," said Boldwood, hastily.
Here is the sum, and if you'll come to my house we'll write out the agreement for the remainder, and the terms also." "First we'll call upon her." "But why?
Come with me to-night, and go with me to-morrow to the surrogate's." "But she must be consulted; at any rate informed." "Very well; go on." They went up the hill to Bathsheba's house.
When they stood at the entrance, Troy said, "Wait here a moment.
Opening the door, he glided inside, leaving the door ajar. Boldwood waited.
Will you read this a moment?
I'll hold the light." Troy handed a folded newspaper through the slit between door and doorpost, and put the candle close.
A low gurgle of derisive laughter followed the words. The paper fell from Boldwood's hands.
Troy continued,- "Fifty pounds to marry Fanny, Good.
Twenty-one pounds not to marry Fanny, but Bathsheba.
Now, Boldwood, yours is the ridiculous fate which always attends interference between a man and his wife.
Bad as I am, I am not such a villain as to make the marriage or misery of any woman a matter of huckster and sale.
Fanny has long ago left me.
I don't know where she is.
You say you love Bathsheba; yet on the merest apparent evidence you instantly believe in her dishonour.
A fig for such love!
Now that I've taught you a lesson, take your money back again." "I will not; I will not!" said Boldwood, in a hiss. "Anyhow I won't have it," said Troy, contemptuously.
He wrapped the packet of gold in the notes, and threw the whole into the road. Boldwood shook his clenched fist at him.
But I'll punish you yet; mark me, I'll punish you yet!" Another peal of laughter.
The confused beginnings of many birds' songs spread into the healthy air, and the wan blue of the heaven was here and there coated with thin webs of incorporeal cloud which were of no effect in obscuring day.
All the lights in the scene were yellow as to colour, and all the shadows were attenuated as to form.
They were yet barely in view of their mistress's house, when Oak fancied he saw the opening of a casement in one of the upper windows.
The two men were at this moment partially screened by an elder bush, now beginning to be enriched with black bunches of fruit, and they paused before emerging from its shade. A handsome man leaned idly from the lattice.
He looked east and then west, in the manner of one who makes a first morning survey.
The man was Sergeant Troy.
I heard wheels pass my door just after dark-you were out somewhere.
He glanced round upon Gabriel.
His mind sped into the future, and saw there enacted in years of leisure the scenes of repentance that would ensue from this work of haste.
That they were married he had instantly decided.
Why had it been so mysteriously managed?
It was not at all Bathsheba's way of doing things.
With all her faults, she was candour itself.
Could she have been entrapped?
The union was not only an unutterable grief to him: it amazed him, notwithstanding that he had passed the preceding week in a suspicion that such might be the issue of Troy's meeting her away from home.
Her quiet return with Liddy had to some extent dispersed the dread.
The sergeant still looked from the window. "Morning, comrades!" he shouted, in a cheery voice, when they came up. Coggan replied to the greeting.
Bain't ye going to answer the man?" he then said to Gabriel.
Perhaps she's not there." Gabriel shook his head.
Creation and preservation don't do well together,' says he, 'and a million of antiquarians can't invent a style.
I am for making this place more modern, that we may be cheerful whilst we can." The military man turned and surveyed the interior of the room, to assist his ideas of improvement in this direction.
Well, I shall be down in the fields with you some time this week; but I have a few matters to attend to first.
We shall, of course, keep on just as friendly terms as usual.
I'm not a proud man: nobody is ever able to say that of Sergeant Troy.
However, what is must be, and here's half-a-crown to drink my health, men." Troy threw the coin dexterously across the front plot towards Gabriel, who shunned it in its fall, his face turning to an angry red.
Coggan twirled his eye, edged forward, and caught the money in its ricochet upon the grass. "Very well-you keep it, Coggan," said Gabriel with disdain and almost fiercely.
As for me, I'll do without gifts from him." "Don't show it too much," said Coggan, musingly.
The horse bore him away, and the very step of the animal seemed significant of dogged despair.
Gabriel, for a minute, rose above his own grief in noticing Boldwood's.
To one who knew the man and his story there was something more striking in this immobility than in a collapse.
The moon, as seen through these films, had a lurid metallic look.
The fields were sallow with the impure light, and all were tinged in monochrome, as if beheld through stained glass.
Before twelve hours had passed a harvest atmosphere would be a bygone thing. Oak gazed with misgiving at eight naked and unprotected ricks, massive and heavy with the rich produce of one-half the farm for that year.
He went on to the barn. This was the night which had been selected by Sergeant Troy-ruling now in the room of his wife-for giving the harvest supper and dance.
As Oak approached the building the sound of violins and a tambourine, and the regular jigging of many feet, grew more distinct.
As to the merits of "The Soldier's Joy." there cannot be, and never were, two opinions.
He avoided Bathsheba, and got as near as possible to the platform, where Sergeant Troy was now seated, drinking brandy-and-water, though the others drank without exception cider and ale.
Gabriel could not easily thrust himself within speaking distance of the sergeant, and he sent a message, asking him to come down for a moment.
At the door he paused for a moment: Troy was speaking. "Friends, it is not only the Harvest Home that we are celebrating to-night; but this is also a Wedding Feast.
A short time ago I had the happiness to lead to the altar this lady, your mistress, and not until now have we been able to give any public flourish to the event in Weatherbury.
That it may be thoroughly well done, and that every man may go happy to bed, I have ordered to be brought here some bottles of brandy and kettles of hot water.
A treble-strong goblet will he handed round to each guest." Bathsheba put her hand upon his arm, and, with upturned pale face, said imploringly, "No-don't give it to them-pray don't, Frank!
Friends," he said," we'll send the women-folk home!
Tis time they were in bed.
Then we cockbirds will have a jolly carouse to ourselves.
If any of the men show the white feather, let them look elsewhere for a winter's work." Bathsheba indignantly left the barn, followed by all the women and children.
The musicians, not looking upon themselves as "company," slipped quietly away to their spring waggon and put in the horse.
In approaching the door, his toe kicked something which felt and sounded soft, leathery, and distended, like a boxing-glove.
It was a large toad humbly travelling across the path.
Oak took it up, thinking it might be better to kill the creature to save it from pain; but finding it uninjured, he placed it again among the grass.
He knew what this direct message from the Great Mother meant.
And soon came another. When he struck a light indoors there appeared upon the table a thin glistening streak, as if a brush of varnish had been lightly dragged across it.
Oak's eyes followed the serpentine sheen to the other side, where it led up to a huge brown garden-slug, which had come indoors to-night for reasons of its own.
It was Nature's second way of hinting to him that he was to prepare for foul weather. Oak sat down meditating for nearly an hour.
During this time two black spiders, of the kind common in thatched houses, promenaded the ceiling, ultimately dropping to the floor.
This reminded him that if there was one class of manifestation on this matter that he thoroughly understood, it was the instincts of sheep.
He knew now that he was right, and that Troy was wrong.
Every voice in nature was unanimous in bespeaking change.
But two distinct translations attached to these dumb expressions.
Apparently there was to be a thunder-storm, and afterwards a cold continuous rain.
Oak returned to the stack-yard.
All was silent here, and the conical tips of the ricks jutted darkly into the sky.
There were five wheat-ricks in this yard, and three stacks of barley.
The wheat when threshed would average about thirty quarters to each stack; the barley, at least forty.
Never, if I can prevent it!" said Gabriel. Such was the argument that Oak set outwardly before him.
But man, even to himself, is a cryptographic page, having an ostensible writing, and another between the lines.
Coggan was on his back, with his mouth open, buzzing forth snores, as were several others; the united breathings of the horizonal assemblage forming a subdued roar like London from a distance.
Joseph Poorgrass was curled round in the fashion of a hedgehog, apparently in attempts to present the least possible portion of his surface to the air; and behind him was dimly visible an unimportant remnant of William Smallbury.
He saw at once that if the ricks were to be saved that night, or even the next morning, he must save them with his own hands. A faint "ting-ting" resounded from under Coggan's waistcoat.
It was Coggan's watch striking the hour of two. Oak went to the recumbent form of Matthew Moon, who usually undertook the rough thatching of the homestead, and shook him.
He then went to Susan Tall's husband. "Where's the key of the granary?" No answer.
The question was repeated, with the same result.
To be shouted to at night was evidently less of a novelty to Susan Tall's husband than to Matthew Moon.
Oak flung down Tall's head into the corner again and turned away. To be just, the men were not greatly to blame for this painful and demoralizing termination to the evening's entertainment.
Sergeant Troy had so strenuously insisted, glass in hand, that drinking should be the bond of their union, that those who wished to refuse hardly liked to be so unmannerly under the circumstances.
I want the key of the granary." "Gabriel!
What in the name of fortune did you pretend to be Laban for?" "I didn't.
I thought you meant--" "Yes you did!
What do you want here?" "The key of the granary." "Take it then.
People coming disturbing women at this time of night ought--" Gabriel took the key, without waiting to hear the conclusion of the tirade.
Ten minutes later his lonely figure might have been seen dragging four large waterproof coverings across the yard, and soon two of these heaps of treasure in grain were covered snug-two cloths to each.
Two hundred pounds were secured.
Three wheat-stacks remained open, and there were no more cloths.
Oak looked under the staddles and found a fork.
He mounted the third pile of wealth and began operating, adopting the plan of sloping the upper sheaves one over the other; and, in addition, filling the interstices with the material of some untied sheaves. So far all was well.
By this hurried contrivance Bathsheba's property in wheat was safe for at any rate a week or two, provided always that there was not much wind. Next came the barley.
This it was only possible to protect by systematic thatching.
Time went on, and the moon vanished not to re-appear.
It was the farewell of the ambassador previous to war.
The night had a haggard look, like a sick thing; and there came finally an utter expiration of air from the whole heaven in the form of a slow breeze, which might have been likened to a death.
Manoeuvres of a most extraordinary kind were going on in the vast firmamental hollows overhead.
The lightning now was the colour of silver, and gleamed in the heavens like a mailed army.
Gabriel from his elevated position could see over the landscape at least half-a-dozen miles in front.
Every hedge, bush, and tree was distinct as in a line engraving.
A poplar in the immediate foreground was like an ink stroke on burnished tin.
A blue light appeared in the zenith, and in some indescribable manner flickered down near the top of the rod.
It was the fourth of the larger flashes.
A moment later and there was a smack-smart, clear, and short.
Gabriel felt his position to be anything but a safe one, and he resolved to descend. Not a drop of rain had fallen as yet.
He wiped his weary brow, and looked again at the black forms of the unprotected stacks.
Was his life so valuable to him after all?
What were his prospects that he should be so chary of running risk, when important and urgent labour could not be carried on without such risk?
He resolved to stick to the stack. However, he took a precaution.
Under the staddles was a long tethering chain, used to prevent the escape of errant horses.
This he carried up the ladder, and sticking his rod through the clog at one end, allowed the other end of the chain to trail upon the ground.
It was green as an emerald, and the reverberation was stunning.
What was this the light revealed to him?
I am on the rick, thatching." "Oh, Gabriel!-and are you?
I have come about them.
The weather awoke me, and I thought of the corn.
I am so distressed about it-can we save it anyhow?
I cannot find my husband.
Is he with you?" "He is not here." "Do you know where he is?" "Asleep in the barn." "He promised that the stacks should be seen to, and now they are all neglected!
Can I do anything to help?
Liddy is afraid to come out. Fancy finding you here at such an hour!
Surely I can do something?" "You can bring up some reed-sheaves to me, one by one, ma'am; if you are not afraid to come up the ladder in the dark," said Gabriel.
Every moment is precious now, and that would save a good deal of time.
It is not very dark when the lightning has been gone a bit." "I'll do anything!" she said, resolutely.
She instantly took a sheaf upon her shoulder, clambered up close to his heels, placed it behind the rod, and descended for another.
At her third ascent the rick suddenly brightened with the brazen glare of shining majolica-every knot in every straw was visible.
On the slope in front of him appeared two human shapes, black as jet.
The rick lost its sheen-the shapes vanished.
It had been the sixth flash which had come from the east behind him, and the two dark forms on the slope had been the shadows of himself and Bathsheba. Then came the peal.
It hardly was credible that such a heavenly light could be the parent of such a diabolical sound. "How terrible!" she exclaimed, and clutched him by the sleeve.
It was the shadow of that tree, thrown across by a secondary flash in the west. The next flare came.
Bathsheba was on the ground now, shouldering another sheaf, and she bore its dazzle without flinching-thunder and all-and again ascended with the load.
There was then a silence everywhere for four or five minutes, and the crunch of the spars, as Gabriel hastily drove them in, could again be distinctly heard.
He thought the crisis of the storm had passed.
But there came a burst of light. "Hold on!" said Gabriel, taking the sheaf from her shoulder, and grasping her arm again. Heaven opened then, indeed.
The flash was almost too novel for its inexpressibly dangerous nature to be at once realized, and they could only comprehend the magnificence of its beauty.
It sprang from east, west, north, south.
It was a perfect dance of death.
The forms of skeletons appeared in the air, shaped with blue fire for bones-dancing, leaping, striding, racing around, and mingling altogether in unparalleled confusion.
With these were intertwined undulating snakes of green.
Behind these was a broad mass of lesser light.
Simultaneously came from every part of the tumbling sky what may be called a shout; since, though no shout ever came near it, it was more of the nature of a shout than of anything else earthly.
In the meantime one of the grisly forms had alighted upon the point of Gabriel's rod, to run invisibly down it, down the chain, and into the earth.
It was a stupefying blast, harsh and pitiless, and it fell upon their ears in a dead, flat blow, without that reverberation which lends the tones of a drum to more distant thunder.
The other portion remained erect, and revealed the bared surface as a strip of white down the front.
The lightning had struck the tree.
A sulphurous smell filled the air; then all was silent, and black as a cave in Hinnom. "We had a narrow escape!" said Gabriel, hurriedly.
You had better go down." Bathsheba said nothing; but he could distinctly hear her rhythmical pants, and the recurrent rustle of the sheaf beside her in response to her frightened pulsations.
She descended the ladder, and, on second thoughts, he followed her.
The darkness was now impenetrable by the sharpest vision.
They both stood still at the bottom, side by side. Bathsheba appeared to think only of the weather-Oak thought only of her just then.
At last he said,- "The storm seems to have passed now, at any rate." "I think so too," said Bathsheba.
Though there are multitudes of gleams, look!" The sky was now filled with an incessant light, frequent repetition melting into complete continuity, as an unbroken sound results from the successive strokes on a gong. "Nothing serious," said he.
I cannot understand no rain falling.
But, Heaven be praised, it is all the better for us.
I am now going up again." "Gabriel, you are kinder than I deserve!
That's it, is it not?
Don't think I am a timid woman, and can't endure things." "I am not certain," said Gabriel.
I will go and see." He crossed to the barn, leaving her there alone.
He looked through the chinks of the door.
All was in total darkness, as he had left it, and there still arose, as at the former time, the steady buzz of many snores. He felt a zephyr curling about his cheek, and turned.
She followed, but without a sheaf "Gabriel," she said, in a strange and impressive voice. Oak looked up at her.
She had not spoken since he left the barn.
The soft and continual shimmer of the dying lightning showed a marble face high against the black sky of the opposite quarter.
Now, I care a little for your good opinion, and I want to explain something-I have longed to do it ever since I returned, and you looked so gravely at me.
For if I were to die-and I may die soon-it would be dreadful that you should always think mistakingly of me.
Now, listen." Gabriel ceased his rustling. "I went to Bath that night in the full intention of breaking off my engagement to Mr. Troy.
It was owing to circumstances which occurred after I got there that-that we were married.
Now, do you see the matter in a new light?" "I do-somewhat." "I must, I suppose, say more, now that I have begun.
And perhaps it's no harm, for you are certainly under no delusion that I ever loved you, or that I can have any object in speaking, more than that object I have mentioned.
Well, I was alone in a strange city, and the horse was lame. And at last I didn't know what to do.
I saw, when it was too late, that scandal might seize hold of me for meeting him alone in that way.
But I was coming away, when he suddenly said he had that day seen a woman more beautiful than I, and that his constancy could not be counted on unless I at once became his....
And I was grieved and troubled....
She cleared her voice, and waited a moment, as if to gather breath.
And then, between jealousy and distraction, I married him!" she whispered, with desperate impetuosity. Gabriel made no reply. "He was not to blame, for it was perfectly true about-about his seeing somebody else," she quickly added.
And now I don't wish for a single remark from you upon the subject-indeed, I forbid it.
I only wanted you to know that misunderstood bit of my history before a time comes when you could never know it.-You want some more sheaves?" She went down the ladder, and the work proceeded.
Gabriel soon perceived a languor in the movements of his mistress up and down, and he said to her, gently as a mother,- "I think you had better go indoors now, you are tired.
I can finish the rest alone.
You have done well." "And you better!" she said, gratefully.
Thank you for your devotion, a thousand times, Gabriel!
Good-night-I know you are doing your very best for me." She diminished in the gloom, and vanished, and he heard the latch of the gate fall as she passed through.
In ten minutes every wind of heaven seemed to be roaming at large.
Some of the thatching on the wheat-stacks was now whirled fantastically aloft, and had to be replaced and weighted with some rails that lay near at hand. This done, Oak slaved away again at the barley.
A huge drop of rain smote his face, the wind snarled round every corner, the trees rocked to the bases of their trunks, and the twigs clashed in strife.
Driving in spars at any point and on any system, inch by inch he covered more and more safely from ruin this distracting impersonation of seven hundred pounds.
The rain came on in earnest, and Oak soon felt the water to be tracking cold and clammy routes down his back.
Ultimately he was reduced well-nigh to a homogeneous sop, and a decoction of his person trickled down and stood in a pool at the foot of the ladder.
But Oak was generous and true, and dismissed his reflections. It was about seven o'clock in the dark leaden morning when Gabriel came down from the last stack, and thankfully exclaimed, "It is done!
He was drenched, weary, and sad; and yet not so sad as drenched and weary, for he was cheered by a sense of success in a good cause. Faint sounds came from the barn, and he looked that way.
Figures came singly and in pairs through the doors-all walking awkwardly, and abashed, save the foremost, who wore a red jacket, and advanced with his hands in his pockets, whistling.
The others shambled after with a conscience-stricken air: the whole procession was not unlike Flaxman's group of the suitors tottering on towards the infernal regions under the conduct of Mercury.
The gnarled shapes passed into the village, Troy their leader entering the farmhouse.
Not a single one of them had turned his face to the ricks, or apparently bestowed one thought upon their condition.
Soon Oak too went homeward, by a different route from theirs.
You look tired and ill, Oak," he said then, desultorily regarding his companion. "I am tired.
You look strangely altered, sir." "I?
Not a bit of it: I am well enough.
What put that into your head?" "I thought you didn't look quite so topping as you used to, that was all." "Indeed, then you are mistaken," said Boldwood, shortly.
My constitution is an iron one." "I've been working hard to get our ricks covered, and was barely in time.
Never had such a struggle in my life....
Yours of course are safe, sir." "Oh yes.
I overlooked the ricks this year." "Then not a tenth of your corn will come to measure, sir." "Possibly not. "Overlooked them," repeated Gabriel slowly to himself.
It is difficult to describe the intensely dramatic effect that announcement had upon Oak at such a moment.
All the night he had been feeling that the neglect he was labouring to repair was abnormal and isolated-the only instance of the kind within the circuit of the county.
Yet at this very time, within the same parish, a greater waste had been going on, uncomplained of and disregarded.
A few months earlier Boldwood's forgetting his husbandry would have been as preposterous an idea as a sailor forgetting he was in a ship.
No engagement ever existed between me and Miss Everdene.
People say so, but it is untrue: she never promised me!
Boldwood stood still now and turned his wild face to Oak.
Oh Gabriel," he continued, "I am weak and foolish, and I don't know what, and I can't fend off my miserable grief!... I had some faint belief in the mercy of God till I lost that woman.
Yes, he prepared a gourd to shade me, and like the prophet I thanked him and was glad.
But the next day he prepared a worm to smite the gourd, and wither it; and I feel it is better to die than to live." A silence followed.
I do feel a little regret occasionally, but no woman ever had power over me for any length of time.
In returning from market it is usual for the farmers and other gig-gentry to alight at the bottom and walk up. One Saturday evening in the month of October Bathsheba's vehicle was duly creeping up this incline.
She was sitting listlessly in the second seat of the gig, whilst walking beside her in farmer's marketing suit of unusually fashionable cut was an erect, well-made young man.
Though on foot, he held the reins and whip, and occasionally aimed light cuts at the horse's ear with the end of the lash, as a recreation.
This man was her husband, formerly Sergeant Troy, who, having bought his discharge with Bathsheba's money, was gradually transforming himself into a farmer of a spirited and very modern school.
Don't you see, it altered all the chances?
To speak like a book I once read, wet weather is the narrative, and fine days are the episodes, of our country's history; now, isn't that true?" "But the time of year is come for changeable weather." "Well, yes.
The fact is, these autumn races are the ruin of everybody. Never did I see such a day as 'twas!
Tis a wild open place, not far from the sands, and a drab sea rolled in towards us like liquid misery. Wind and rain-good Lord!
Why, 'twas as black as my hat before the last race was run.
Twas five o'clock, and you couldn't see the horses till they were almost in, leave alone colours.
The ground was as heavy as lead, and all judgment from a fellow's experience went for nothing. Horses, riders, people, were all blown about like ships at sea.
Three booths were blown over, and the wretched folk inside crawled out upon their hands and knees; and in the next field were as many as a dozen hats at one time.
Oh, Frank, it is cruel; it is foolish of you to take away my money so.
We shall have to leave the farm; that will be the end of it!" "Humbug about cruel.
Now, there 'tis again-turn on the waterworks; that's just like you." "But you'll promise me not to go to Budmouth races next week, won't you?" she implored.
Bathsheba was at the full depth for tears, but she maintained a dry eye. "I don't see why I should; in fact, if it turns out to be a fine day, I was thinking of taking you." "Never, never!
I'll go a hundred miles the other way first.
I hate the sound of the very word!" "But the question of going to see the race or staying at home has very little to do with the matter.
Bets are all booked safely enough before the race begins, you may depend.
Wait till you are told.
They moved on without further speech, some early-withered leaves from the beech trees which hooded the road at this spot occasionally spinning downward across their path to the earth. A woman appeared on the brow of the hill.
The ridge was so abrupt that she was very near the husband and wife before she became visible.
He said, slowly- "I don't know." The woman, on hearing him speak, quickly looked up, examined the side of his face, and recognized the soldier under the yeoman's garb.
Her face was drawn into an expression which had gladness and agony both among its elements.
She uttered an hysterical cry, and fell down. "Oh, poor thing!" exclaimed Bathsheba, instantly preparing to alight. "Stay where you are, and attend to the horse!" said Troy, peremptorily throwing her the reins and the whip.
Walk the horse to the top: I'll see to the woman." "But I-" "Do you hear?
Clk-Poppet!" The horse, gig, and Bathsheba moved on. "How on earth did you come here?
I thought you were miles away, or dead!
Why didn't you write to me?" said Troy to the woman, in a strangely gentle, yet hurried voice, as he lifted her up. "I feared to." "Have you any money?" "None." "Good Heaven-I wish I had more to give you!
It is every farthing I have left.
I have none but what my wife gives me, you know, and I can't ask her now." The woman made no answer. "I have only another moment," continued Troy; "and now listen.
Where are you going to-night?
Casterbridge Union?" "Yes; I thought to go there." "You shan't go there; yet, wait.
Yes, perhaps for to-night; I can do nothing better-worse luck.
Sleep there to-night, and stay there to-morrow.
Monday is the first free day I have; and on Monday morning, at ten exactly, meet me on Casterbridge Bridge.
I'll bring all the money I can muster.
You shan't want-I'll see that, Fanny; then I'll get you a lodging somewhere.
I am a brute-but good-bye!" After advancing the distance which completed the ascent of the hill, Bathsheba turned her head.
The woman was upon her feet, and Bathsheba saw her withdrawing from Troy, and going feebly down the hill.
Troy then came on towards his wife, stepped into the gig, took the reins from her hand, and without making any observation whipped the horse into a trot.
He was rather pale. "Do you know who that woman was?" said Bathsheba, looking searchingly into his face. "I do," he said, looking boldly back into hers. "I thought you did," said she, with angry hauteur, and still regarding him.
Who is she?" He suddenly seemed to think that frankness would benefit neither of the women. "Nothing to either of us," he said.
I know her by sight." "What is her name?" "How should I know her name?" "I think you do." "Think if you will, and be--.
The sentence was completed by a smart cut of the whip round Poppet's flank, which caused the animal to start forward at a wild pace.
No more was said. CHAPTER X. ON CASTERBRIDGE HIGHWAY For a considerable time the woman walked on.
Her steps became feebler, and she strained her eyes to look afar upon the naked road, now indistinct amid the penumbrae of night.
At length her onward walk dwindled to the merest totter, and she opened a gate within which was a haystack.
Underneath this she sat down and presently slept. [Illustration: SHE OPENED A GATE WITHIN WHICH WAS A HAYSTACK.
UNDER THIS SHE SAT DOWN.] When the woman awoke it was to find herself in the depths of a moonless and starless night.
Towards this weak, soft glow the woman turned her eyes. "If I could only get there!" she said.
Meet him the day after to-morrow: God help me!
Perhaps I shall be in my grave before then." A clock from the far depths of shadow struck the hour, one, in a small, attenuated tone.
After midnight the voice of a clock seems to lose in breadth as much as in length, and to diminish its sonorousness to a thin falsetto. Afterwards a light-two lights-arose from the remote shade, and grew larger.
A carriage rolled along the road, and passed the gate.
It probably contained some late diners-out.
The beams from one lamp shone for a moment upon the crouching woman, and threw her face into vivid relief.
The face was young in the groundwork, old in the finish; the general contours were flexuous and childlike, but the finer lineaments had begun to be sharp and thin. The pedestrian stood up, apparently with revived determination, and looked around.
The road appeared to be familiar to her, and she carefully scanned the fence as she slowly walked along.
Presently there became visible a dim white shape; it was another milestone.
She drew her fingers across its face to feel the marks. "Three!" she said. She leant against the stone as a means of rest for a short interval, then bestirred herself, and again pursued her way.
For a lengthy distance she bore up bravely, afterwards flagging as before.
This was beside a lone hazel copse, wherein heaps of white chips strewn upon the leafy ground showed that woodmen had been faggoting and making hurdles during the day.
Now there was not a rustle, not a breeze, not the faintest clash of twigs to keep her company.
Her attitude was that of a person who listens, either to the external world of sound, or to the imagined discourse of thought.
A close criticism might have detected signs proving that she was intent on the latter alternative.
These sticks were nearly straight to the height of three or four feet, where each branched into a fork like the letter Y.
She sat down, snapped off the small upper twigs, and carried the remainder with her into the road.
She placed one of these forks under each arm as a crutch, tested them, timidly threw her whole weight upon them-so little that it was-and swung herself forward.
The girl had made for herself a material aid. The crutches answered well.
The pat of her feet, and the tap of her sticks upon the highway, were all the sounds that came from the traveller now.
She had passed a second milestone by a good long distance, and began to look wistfully towards the bank as if calculating upon another milestone soon.
The crutches, though so very useful, had their limits of power.
Mechanism only transmutes labour, being powerless to abstract it, and the original quantum of exertion was not cleared away; it was thrown into the body and arms.
She was exhausted, and each swing forward became fainter.
At last she swayed sideways, and fell. Here she lay, a shapeless heap, for ten minutes and more.
The morning wind began to boom dully over the flats, and to move afresh dead leaves which had lain still since yesterday.
The woman desperately turned round upon her knees, and next rose to her feet.
Steadying herself by the help of one crutch, she essayed a step, then another, then a third, using the crutches now as walking sticks only.
Thus she progressed till the beginning of a long railed fence came into view.
She staggered across to the first post, clung to it, and looked around.
Another milestone was on the opposite side of the road. The Casterbridge lights were now individually visible.
It was getting towards morning, and vehicles might be hoped for if not expected soon. She listened.
No; less," she added, after a pause.
The mile is to the Town Hall, and my resting-place is on this side Casterbridge.
Three-quarters of a mile, and there I am!
After an interval she again spoke.
Five or six steps to a yard-six perhaps.
I have to go seventeen hundred yards.
A hundred times six, six hundred. Twelve times that.
During the effort each breath of the woman went into the air as if never to return again. "Now for the truth of the matter," she said, sitting down.
The truth is, that I have less than half a mile.
Self-beguilement with what she had known all the time to be false had given her strength to come a quarter of a mile that she would have been powerless to face in the lump.
It was an impassive King of her world.
The road here ran across a level plateau with only a bank on either side.
She surveyed the wide space, the lights, herself, sighed, and lay down on the bank. Never was ingenuity exercised so sorely as the traveller here exercised hers.
Every conceivable aid, method, stratagem, mechanism, by which these last desperate eight hundred yards could be overpassed by a human being unperceived, was revolved in her busy brain, and dismissed as impracticable.
She thought of sticks, wheels, crawling-she even thought of rolling.
But the exertion demanded by either of these latter two was greater than to walk erect.
It glided noiselessly towards the recumbent woman. She became conscious of something touching her hand; it was softness and it was warmth.
She opened her eyes, and the substance touched her face.
A dog was licking her cheek. He was huge, heavy, and quiet creature, standing darkly against the low horizon, and at least two feet higher than the present position of her eyes.
Whether Newfoundland, mastiff, bloodhound, or what not, it was impossible to say.
Night, in its sad, solemn, and benevolent aspect, apart from its stealthy and cruel side, was personified in this form.
The animal, who was as homeless as she, respectfully withdrew a step or two when the woman moved, and, seeing that she did not repulse him, he licked her hand again. A thought moved within her like lightning.
Perhaps I can make use of him-I might do it then!" She pointed in the direction of Casterbridge, and the dog seemed to misunderstand: he trotted on.
Whilst she sorrowed in her heart she cheered with her voice, and what was stranger than that the strong should need encouragement from the weak was that cheerfulness should be so well stimulated by such utter dejection.
Her friend moved forward slowly, and she with small mincing steps moved forward beside him, half her weight being thrown upon the animal. Sometimes she sank as she had sunk from walking erect, from the crutches, from the rails.
The dog, who now thoroughly understood her desire and her incapacity, was frantic in his distress on these occasions; he would tug at her dress and run forward.
She always called him back, and it was now to be observed that the woman listened for human sounds only to avoid them.
It was evident that she had an object in keeping her presence on the road and her forlorn state unknown. Their progress was necessarily very slow.
They reached the brow of the hill, and the Casterbridge lamps lay beneath them like fallen Pleiads as they walked down the incline.
Thus the distance was passed, and the goal was reached.
On this much desired spot outside the town rose a picturesque building.
Originally it had been a mere case to hold people.
Masses of ivy grew up, completely covering the walls, till the place looked like an abbey; and it was discovered that the view from the front, over the Casterbridge chimneys, was one of the most magnificent in the county.
In the wall was a gate, and by the gate a bell-pull formed of a hanging wire.
The woman raised herself as high as possible upon her knees, and could just reach the handle.
A little door by the large one was opened, and a man appeared inside.
He discerned the panting heap of clothes, went back for a light, and came again.
He entered a second time, and returned with two women. These lifted the prostrate figure and assisted her in through the doorway.
The man then closed the door. "How did she get here?" said one of the women. "The Lord knows," said the other. "There is a dog outside," murmured the overcome traveller.
He helped me." "I stoned him away," said the man. The little procession then moved forward-the man in front bearing the light, the two bony women next, supporting between them the small and supple one.
Thus they entered the door and disappeared. CHAPTER XI. SUSPICION-FANNY IS SENT FOR Bathsheba said very little to her husband all that evening of their return from market, and he was not disposed to say much to her.
He exhibited the unpleasant combination of a restless condition with a silent tongue.
The next day, which was Sunday, passed nearly in the same manner as regarded their taciturnity, Bathsheba going to church both morning and afternoon.
This was the day before the Budmouth races. In the evening Troy said suddenly,- "Bathsheba, could you let me have twenty pounds?" Her countenance instantly sank.
Twenty pounds?" she said. "The fact is, I want it badly.
The anxiety upon Troy's face was unusual and very marked.
It was a culmination of the mood he had been in all the day. "Ah! for those races to-morrow." Troy for the moment made no reply.
Her mistake had its advantages to a man who shrank from having his mind inspected as he did now.
Well, suppose I do want it for races?" he said, at last. "Oh, Frank!
Bathsheba replied, and there was such a volume of entreaty in the words.
Come, let me fascinate you by all I can do-by pretty words and pretty looks, and everything I can think of-to stay at home.
You worry me a great deal by these mysterious responsibilities, Frank." Troy hesitated.
He did not now love her enough to allow himself to be carried too far by her ways.
Yet it was necessary to be civil.
You wrong me by such a suspicious manner," he said.
I do that already," she said, quickly. "What do you regret?" "That my romance has come to an end." "All romances end at marriage." "I wish you wouldn't talk like that.
You grieve me to my soul by being smart at my expense." "You are dull enough at mine.
I believe you hate me." "Not you-only your faults.
I do hate them." "'Twould be much more becoming if you set yourself to cure them.
Come, let's strike a balance with the twenty pounds, and be friends." She gave a sigh of resignation.
I have about that sum here for household expenses.
If you must have it, take it." "Very good.
I expect I shall have gone away before you are in to breakfast to-morrow." "And must you go?
Ah! there was a time, Frank, when it would have taken a good many promises to other people to drag you away from me.
You used to call me darling, then.
But it doesn't matter to you how my days are passed now." "I must go, in spite of sentiment.
She flushed in pain and surprise, and some words escaped her before she had thought whether or not it was wise to utter them.
A woman's curl of hair!" she said.
Oh, Frank, whose is that?" Troy had instantly closed his watch.
He carelessly replied, as one who cloaked some feelings that the sight had stirred.
I had quite forgotten that I had it." "What a dreadful fib, Frank!" "I tell you I had forgotten it!" he said, loudly. "I don't mean that-it was yellow hair." "Nonsense." "That's insulting me.
I know it was yellow.
I want to know." "Very well-I'll tell you, so make no more ado.
Why, her hair has been admired by everybody who has seen her since she has worn it loose, which has not been long.
People used to turn their heads to look at it, poor girl!" "Pooh! that's nothing-that's nothing!" she exclaimed, in incipient accents of pique.
If I cared for your love as much as I used to I could say people had turned to look at mine." "Bathsheba, don't be so fitful and jealous.
Ashamed as she was to show emotion, at last she burst out:- "This is all I get for loving you so well!
Ah! when I married you your life was dearer to me than my own.
I would have died for you-how truly I can say that I would have died for you!
And now you sneer at my foolishness in marrying you.
Oh! is it kind to me to throw my mistake in my face?
You'll burn it, won't you, Frank?" Frank went on as if he had not heard her.
There are considerations even before my consideration for you; reparations to be made-ties you know nothing of.
You don't repent because you already love somebody better than you love me, do you?" "I don't know.
Why do you say that?" "You won't burn that curl.
You like the woman who owns that pretty hair-yes; it is pretty-more beautiful than my miserable black mane! Well, it is no use; I can't help being ugly.
There, now that you have wormed it out of me, I hope you are content." "And what are the ties?" "Oh! that meant nothing-a mere jest." "A mere jest!" she said, in mournful astonishment.
Can you jest when I am so wretchedly in earnest?
Tell me the truth, Frank.
I am not a fool, you know, although I am a woman, and have my woman's moments.
Come! treat me fairly," she said, looking honestly and fearlessly into his face.
I don't want much; bare justice-that's all!
Ah! once I felt I could be content with nothing less than the highest homage from the husband I should choose.
Now, anything short of cruelty will content me.
Yes! the independent and spirited Bathsheba is come to this!" "For Heaven's sake don't be so desperate!
Troy said, snappishly, rising as he did so, and leaving the room. Directly he had gone, Bathsheba burst into great sobs-dry-eyed sobs, which cut as they came, without any softening by tears.
But she determined to repress all evidences of feeling.
She was conquered; but she would never own it as long as she lived.
Her pride was indeed brought low by despairing discoveries of her spoliation by marriage with a less pure nature than her own.
She chafed to and fro in rebelliousness, like a caged leopard; her whole soul was in arms, and the blood fired her face.
In those earlier days she had always nourished a secret contempt for girls who were the slaves of the first good-looking young fellow who should choose to salute them.
She had never taken kindly to the idea of marriage in the abstract as did the majority of women she saw about her.
In the turmoil of her anxiety for her lover she had agreed to marry him; but the perception that had accompanied her happiest hours on this account was rather that of self-sacrifice than of promotion and honour.
Although she scarcely knew the divinity's name, Diana was the goddess whom Bathsheba instinctively adored.
Of course, she sometimes thought of him in the light of an old lover, and had momentary imaginings of what life with him as a husband would have been like; also of life with Boldwood under the same conditions.
Bathsheba blushed painfully, and watched.
The farmer stopped when still a long way off, and held up his hand to Gabriel Oak, who was in another part of the field.
The two men then approached each other and seemed to engage in earnest conversation. Thus they continued for a long time.
She was such a limber maid that 'a could stand no hardship, even when I knowed her, and 'a went like a candle-snoff, so 'tis said.
She was took bad in the morning, and, being quite feeble and worn out, she died in the afternoon.
How very, very sad this is!-the idea of Fanny being in a workhouse.
Bathsheba had begun to know what suffering was, and she spoke with real feeling....
Send across to Mr. Boldwood's, and say that Mrs. Troy will take upon herself the duty of fetching an old servant of the family....
We ought not to put her in a waggon; we'll get a hearse." "There will hardly be time, ma'am, will there?" "Perhaps not," she said, musingly.
When did you say we must be at the door-three o'clock?" "Three o'clock this afternoon, ma'am, so to speak it." "Very well-you go with it.
A pretty waggon is better than an ugly hearse, after all.
Joseph, have the new spring waggon with the blue body and red wheels, and wash it very clean.
I wish I had known of it sooner.
She only got handy the Union-house on Sunday morning 'a b'lieve, and 'tis supposed here and there that she had traipsed every step of the way from Melchester.
Why she left her place, I can't say, for I don't know; and as to a lie, why, I wouldn't tell it.
That's the short of the story, ma'am." "Ah-h!" No gem ever flashed from a rosy ray to a white one more rapidly than changed the young wife's countenance whilst this word came from her in a long drawn breath.
Did she walk along our turnpike-road?" she said, in a suddenly restless and eager voice. "I believe she did....
Ma'am, shall I call Liddy?
You bain't well, ma'am, surely?
You look like a lily-so pale and fainty!" "No; don't call her; it is nothing.
When did she pass Weatherbury?" "Last Saturday night." "That will do, Joseph; now you may go." "Certainly, ma'am." "Joseph, come hither a moment.
What was the colour of Fanny Robin's hair?" "Really, mistress, now that 'tis put to me so judge-and-jury-like, I can't call to mind, if ye'll believe me!" "Never mind; go on and do what I told you.
Stop-well no, go on." She turned herself away from him, that he might no longer notice the mood which had set its sign so visibly upon her, and went indoors with a distressing sense of faintness and a beating brow.
About an hour after, she heard the noise of the waggon and went out, still with a painful consciousness of her bewildered and troubled look.
Joseph, dressed in his best suit of clothes, was putting in the horse to start. The shrubs and flowers were all piled in the waggon, as she had directed.
What Oak and Mr. Boldwood told me was only these few words.
Little Fanny Robin is dead, Joseph,' Gabriel said, looking in my face in his steady old way.
I was very sorry, and I said, 'Ah!-and how did she come to die?
Well, she's dead in Casterbridge Union,' he said, 'and perhaps 'tisn't much matter about how she came to die.
She reached the Union early Sunday morning, and died in the afternoon-that's clear enough.
Then I asked what she'd been doing lately, and Mr. Boldwood turned round to me then, and left off spitting a thistle with the end of his stick.
He told me about her having lived by seampstering in Melchester, as I mentioned to you, and that she walked therefrom at the end of last week, passing near here Saturday night in the dusk.
They then said I had better just name a hent of her death to you, and away they went.
Her death might have been brought on by biding in the night wind, you know, ma'am; for people used to say she'd go off in a decline: she used to cough a good deal in winter time.
However, 'tisn't much odds to us about that now, for 'tis all over." "Have you heard a different story at all?
She looked at him so intently that Joseph's eyes quailed. "Not a word, mistress, I assure you," he said.
Hardly anybody in the parish knows the news yet." "I wonder why Gabriel didn't bring the message to me himself.
He mostly makes a point of seeing me upon the most trifling errand.
These words were merely murmured, and she was looking upon the ground. "Perhaps he was busy, ma'am." Joseph suggested.
And sometimes he seems to suffer from things upon his mind connected with the time when he was better off than 'a is now.
Go on now, or you'll be late." Bathsheba, still unhappy, went indoors again.
In the course of the afternoon she said to Liddy, who had been informed of the occurrence, "What was the colour of poor Fanny Robin's hair?
I cannot recollect-I only saw her for a day or two." "It was light, ma'am; but she wore it rather short, and packed away under her cap, so that you would hardly notice it.
But I have seen her let it down when she was going to bed, and it looked beautiful then. Real golden hair." "Her young man was a soldier, was he not?" "Yes.
In the same regiment as Mr. Troy.
He says he knew him very well." "What, Mr. Troy says so?
How came he to say that?" "One day I just named it to him, and asked him if he knew Fanny's young man.
He said, 'Oh yes, he knew the young man as well as he knew himself, and that there wasn't a man in the regiment he liked better.'" "Ah!
Here a high gable stood prominent, and it was covered like the front with a mat of ivy.
In this gable was no window, chimney, ornament, or protuberance of any kind.
The single feature appertaining to it, beyond the expanse of dark green leaves, was a small door. The situation of the door was peculiar.
Upon the whole, the door seemed to advertise itself as a species of Traitor's Gate translated to another element.
Whilst the chimes were yet stammering out a shattered form of "Malbrook," Joseph Poorgrass rang the bell, and received directions to back his waggon against the high door under the gable.
They came in yet greater volumes, and indolently crept across the intervening valleys, and around the withered papery flags of the sloughs and river brinks.
Then their dank spongy forms closed in upon the sky.
It was the first arrival of the autumn fogs, and the first fog of the series. The air was as an eye suddenly struck blind.
The waggon and its load rolled no longer on the horizontal division between clearness and opacity.
They were imbedded in an elastic body of a monotonous pallor throughout.
There was no perceptible motion in the air, not a visible drop of water fell upon a leaf of the beeches, birches, and firs composing the wood on either side.
The trees stood in an attitude of intentness, as if they waited longingly for a wind to come and rock them.
He felt anything but cheerful, and wished he had the company even of a child or dog.
Stopping the horse, he listened.
Not a footstep or wheel was audible anywhere around, and the dead silence was broken only by a heavy particle falling from a tree through the evergreens and alighting with a smart rap upon the coffin of poor Fanny.
The fog had by this time saturated the trees, and this was the first dropping of water from the overbrimming leaves.
The hollow echo of its fall reminded the waggoner painfully of the grim Leveller.
Then hard by came down another drop, then two or three. Presently there was a continual tapping of these heavy drops upon the dead leaves, the road, and the travellers.
It was about a mile and a half from Weatherbury, and in the meridian times of stage-coach travelling had been the place where many coaches changed and kept their relays of horses.
His spirits were oozing out of him quite.
I'm sure your face don't praise your mistress's table, Joseph." "I've had a very pale companion for the last five miles," said Joseph, indulging in a shudder toned down by resignation.
And to speak the truth, 'twas beginning to tell upon me.
Not but that I should like another nip with ye; but the country might lose confidence in me if I was seed here." "Where be ye trading o't to to-day, then, Joseph?" "Back to Weatherbury.
I've got poor little Fanny Robin in my waggon outside, and I must be at the churchyard gates at a quarter to five with her." "Ay-I've heard of it.
However, I expect our mistress will pay all." "A pretty maid as ever I see!
But what's yer hurry, Joseph?
The pore woman's dead, and you can't bring her to life, and you may as well sit down comfortable and finish another with us." "I don't mind taking just the merest thimbleful of imagination more with ye, sonnies.
But only a few minutes, because 'tis as 'tis." "Of course, you'll have another drop.
A man's twice the man afterwards. You feel so warm and glorious, and you whop and slap at your work without any trouble, and everything goes on like sticks a-breaking.
Tis a talent the Lord has mercifully bestowed upon us, and we ought not to neglect it.
The poor woman is dead, isn't she, and what's your hurry?" "Well, I hope Providence won't be in a way with me for my doings," said Joseph, again sitting down.
I've been troubled with weak moments lately, 'tis true.
I've been drinky once this month already, and I did not go to church a-Sunday, and I dropped a curse or two yesterday; so I don't want to go too far for my safety.
Your next world is your next world, and not to be squandered lightly." "I believe ye to be a chapel-member, Joseph.
That I do." "Oh, no, no!
Not but that chapel-members be clever chaps enough in their way.
We know very well that if anybody goes to heaven, they will.
They've worked hard for it, and they deserve to have it, such as 'tis.
I'd as soon turn king's-evidence for the few pounds you get.
Why, neighbours, when every one of my taties were frosted, our Parson Thirdly were the man who gave me a sack for seed, though he hardly had one for his own use, and no money to buy 'em.
If it hadn't been for him, I shouldn't hae had a tatie to put in my garden.
D'ye think I'd turn after that?
No, I'll stick to my side; and if we be in the wrong, so be it: I'll fall with the fallen!" "Well said-very well said," observed Joseph.-"However, folks, I must be moving now: upon my life I must.
Parson Thirdly will be waiting at the church gates, and there's the woman a-biding outside in the waggon." "Joseph Poorgrass, don't be so miserable!
Sit down." The longer Joseph Poorgrass remained, the less his spirit was troubled by the duties which devolved upon him this afternoon.
The minutes glided by uncounted, until the evening shades began perceptibly to deepen, and the eyes of the three were but sparkling points on the surface of darkness.
He stared sternly at the one lengthy and two round faces of the sitters, which confronted him with the expressions of a fiddle and a couple of warming-pans.
Joseph Poorgrass blinked, and shrank several inches into the background. "Upon my soul, I'm ashamed of you; 'tis disgraceful, Joseph, disgraceful!" said Gabriel, indignantly.
If she'd been alive, I would have been the first to help her.
If she now wanted victuals and drink, I'd pay for it, money down.
But she's dead, and no speed of ours will bring her to life.
The woman's past us-time spent upon her is throwed away: why should we hurry to do what's not required?
Yes; I see two of every sort, as if I were some holy man living in the times of King Noah and entering into the ark....
I know that I always do say 'Please God' afore I do anything, from my getting up to my going down of the same, and I am willing to take as much disgrace as belongs to that holy act.
Hah, yes!... But not a man of spirit?
Have I ever allowed the toe of pride to be lifted against my person without shouting manfully that I question the right to do so?
I inquire that query boldly?" "We can't say that you have, Joseph Poorgrass," said Jan, emphatically. "Never have I allowed such treatment to pass unquestioned!
Yet the shepherd says in the face of that rich testimony that I am not a man of spirit!
I am afraid it is too late now for the funeral to be performed with proper decency.
Have you the registrar's certificate?" "No," said Gabriel.
I expect Poorgrass has that; and he's at the Buck's Head.
I forgot to ask him for it." "Then that settles the matter.
We'll put off the funeral till to-morrow morning.
The body may be brought on to the church, or it may be left here at the farm and fetched by the bearers in the morning.
Visions of several unhappy contingencies which might arise from this delay flitted before him.
But his will was not law, and he went indoors to inquire of his mistress what were her wishes on the subject.
He found her in an unusual mood: her eyes as she looked up to him were suspicious and perplexed as with some antecedent thought.
And I will arrange that the funeral shall take place early to-morrow.
Mr. Thirdly then left them, and Gabriel lighted a lantern.
He still indecisively lingered beside the body.
He was deeply troubled at the wretchedly ironical aspect that circumstances were putting on with regard to Troy's wife, and at his own powerlessness to counteract them.
In spite of his careful manoeuvring all this day, the very worst event that could in any way have happened in connection with the burial had happened now.
The scrawl was this simple one, "_Fanny Robin and child._" Gabriel took his handkerchief and carefully rubbed out the two latter words.
She was such a childlike, nesh young thing that her spirit couldn't appear to anybody if it tried, I'm quite sure." "Oh no, no!
It isn't worth while-there's a fire here, Liddy," she suddenly exclaimed in an impulsive and excited whisper, "have you heard anything strange said of Fanny?
The words had no sooner escaped her than an expression of unutterable regret crossed her face, and she burst into tears. "No-not a word!" said Liddy, looking at the weeping woman with astonishment.
What is it makes you cry so, ma'am; has anything hurt you?
She came to Bathsheba's side with a face full of sympathy. "No, Liddy-I don't want you any more.
I can hardly say why I have taken so to crying lately: I never used to cry.
And within the last day or two had come these disquieting thoughts about her husband's past.
Her wayward sentiment that evening concerning Fanny's temporary resting-place had been the result of a strange complication of impulses in Bathsheba's bosom.
Liddy reappeared, and coming in a little way stood hesitating, until at length she said, "Maryann has just heard something very strange, but I know it isn't true.
And we shall be sure to know the rights of it in a day or two." "What is it?" "Oh, nothing connected with you or us, ma'am. It is about Fanny.
The sadness of Fanny Robin's fate did not make Bathsheba's glorious, although she was the Esther to this poor Vashti, and their fates might be supposed to stand in some respects as contrasts to each other.
When Liddy came into the room a second time the beautiful eyes which met hers had worn a listless, weary look.
When she went out after telling the story they had expressed wretchedness in full activity.
This also sank to apathy after a time.
The meeting with the lonely woman on the previous Saturday night had been unwitnessed and unspoken of.
Where could she find such a friend? nowhere in the house.
She was by far the coolest of the women under her roof.
Patience and suspension of judgement for a few hours were what she wanted to learn, and there was nobody to teach her.
Might she but go to Gabriel Oak!-but that could not be.
What a way Oak had, she thought, of enduring things.
Oak meditatively looked upon the horizon of circumstances without any special regard to his own standpoint in the midst.
That was how she would wish to be.
But then Oak was not racked by incertitude upon the inmost matter of his bosom as she was at this moment.
Oak knew all that he wished to know-she felt convinced of that.
If she were to go to him now at once and say no more than these few words, "What is the truth of the story?" he would feel bound in honour to tell her.
It would be an inexpressible relief.
No further speech would need to be uttered.
He knew her so well that no eccentricity of behaviour in her would alarm him. She flung a cloak round her, went to the door and opened it.
Every blade, every twig was still.
The air was yet thick with moisture, though somewhat less dense than during the afternoon, and a steady smack of drops upon the fallen leaves under the boughs was almost musical in its soothing regularity.
The shutters were not closed, nor was any blind or curtain drawn over the window, neither robbery nor observation being a contingency which could do much injury to the occupant of the domicile.
Yes, it was Gabriel himself who was sitting up: he was reading.
From her standing-place in the road she could see him plainly, sitting quite still, his light curly head upon his hand, and only occasionally looking up to snuff the candle which stood beside him.
At length he looked at the clock, seemed surprised at the lateness of the hour, closed his book, and arose.
He was going to bed, she knew, and if she tapped it must be done at once. Alas for her resolve!
She felt she could not do it.
Not for worlds now could she give a hint about her misery to him, much less ask him plainly for information.
Gabriel appeared in an upper room, placed his light in the window-bench, and then-knelt down to pray.
The contrast of the picture with her rebellious and agitated existence at this same time was too much for her to bear to look upon longer.
It was not for her to make a truce with trouble by any such means.
She must tread her giddy distracting measure to its last note, as she had begun it.
Assuredly their wonted fires must have lived in Fanny's ashes when events were so shaped as to chariot her hither in this natural, unobtrusive, yet effectual manner.
The one feat alone-that of dying-by which a mean condition could be resolved into a grand one, Fanny had achieved.
I am miserable at all this!" Bathsheba became at this moment so terrified at her own state of mind that she looked around for some sort of refuge from herself.
The vision of Oak kneeling down that night recurred to her, and with the imitative instinct which animates women she seized upon the idea, resolved to kneel, and if possible, pray.
Bathsheba knew no other way of showing kindness to persons departed than by giving them flowers.
She knew not how long she remained engaged thus. She forgot time, life, where she was, what she was doing.
A slamming together of the coach-house doors in the yard brought her to herself again.
His first confused idea was that somebody in the house had died. "Well-what?" said Troy, blankly. "I must go!
I want air!" she continued. "But no; stay, I insist!
He seized her hand, and then volition seemed to leave her, and she went off into a state of passivity.
Troy looked in, dropped his wife's hand, knowledge of it all came over him in a lurid sheen, and he stood still. So still he remained that he could be imagined to have left in him no motive power whatever.
And now, in the well-nigh congealed immobility of his frame could be discerned an incipient movement, as in the darkest night may be discerned light after a while. He was gradually sinking forwards.
The lines of his features softened, and dismay modulated to illimitable sadness.
All the strong feelings which had been scattered over her existence since she knew what feeling was, seemed gathered together into one pulsation now.
The revulsion from her indignant mood a little earlier, when she had meditated upon compromised honour, forestalment, eclipse by another, was violent and entire.
All that was forgotten in the simple and still strong attachment of wife to husband. She had sighed for her self-completeness then, and now she cried aloud against the severance of the union she had deplored.
She flung her arms round Troy's neck, exclaiming wildly from the deepest deep of her heart,- "Don't-don't kiss them!
Oh, Frank, I can"t bear it-I can't!
Fanny's own spirit seemed to be animating her frame.
But this was the mood of a few instants only.
When the momentary surprise had passed, his expression changed to a silencing imperious gaze. "I will not kiss you," he said, pushing her away. Had the wife now but gone no further.
Yet, perhaps, under the harrowing circumstances, to speak out was the one wrong act which can be better understood, if not forgiven in her, than the right and politic one.
This woman is more to me, dead as she is, than ever you were, or are, or can be.
If Satan had not tempted me with that face of yours, and those cursed coquetries, I should have married her.
I never had another thought till you came in my way.
Would to God that I had; but it is all too late!
I deserve to live in torment for this!
He turned to Fanny then.
A ceremony before a priest doesn't make a marriage.
I am not morally yours." A vehement impulse to flee from him, to run from this place, hide, and escape humiliation at any price, not stopping short of death itself, mastered Bathsheba now.
She waited not an instant, but turned to the door and ran out. CHAPTER XIV. UNDER A TREE-REACTION Bathsheba went along the dark road, neither knowing nor caring about the direction or issue of her flight.
The first time that she definitely noticed her position was when she reached a gate leading into a thicket overhung by some large oak and beech trees.
On looking into the place, it occurred to her that she had seen it by daylight on some previous occasion, and that what appeared like an impassable thicket was in reality a brake of fern, now withering fast.
Presently he came opposite, and she believed from his voice that he was one of the boys on her own farm.
He was followed by a shambling tramp of heavy feet, and looking through the ferns Bathsheba could just discern in the wan light of daybreak a team of her own horses.
They stopped to drink at a pond on the other side of the way.
She watched them flouncing into the pool, drinking, tossing up their heads, drinking again, the water dribbling from their lips in silver threads.
There was another flounce, and they came out of the pond, and turned back again towards the farm. She looked further around.
Day was just dawning, and beside its cool air and colours her heated actions and resolves of the night stood out in lurid contrast.
She perceived that in her lap, and clinging to her hair, were red and yellow leaves which had come down from the tree and settled silently upon her during her partial sleep.
From her feet, and between the beautiful yellowing ferns with their feathery arms, the ground sloped downwards to a hollow, in which was a species of swamp, dotted with fungi.
A morning mist hung over it now-a fulsome yet magnificent silvery veil, full of light from the sun, yet semi-opaque-the hedge behind it being in some measure hidden by its hazy luminousness.
Up the sides of this depression grew sheaves of the common rush, and here and there a peculiar species of flag, the blades of which glistened in the emerging sun like scythes.
But the general aspect of the swamp was malignant.
From its moist and poisonous coat seemed to be exhaled the essences of evil things in the earth, and in the waters under the earth.
The fungi grew in all manner of positions from rotting leaves and tree stumps, some exhibiting to her listless gaze their clammy tops, others their oozing gills.
Some were marked with great splotches, red as arterial blood, others were saffron yellow, and others tall and attenuated, with stems like macaroni.
Some were leathery and of richest browns.
Bathsheba's nerves were still unstrung: she crouched down out of sight again, and the pedestrian came into view.
He was a schoolboy, with a bag slung over his shoulder containing his dinner, and a book in his hand.
Grace that, grace that, grace that, grace that':-that I know.
Other words followed to the same effect.
A form now appeared upon the rise on the other side of the swamp, half-hidden by the mist, and came towards Bathsheba.
The female-for it was a female-approached with her face askance, as if looking earnestly on all sides of her.
O, Liddy!" she said, or attempted to say; but the words had only been framed by her lips; there came no sound.
She had lost her voice by exposure to the clogged atmosphere all these hours of night. "Oh, ma'am!
I am so glad I have found you," said the girl, as soon as she saw Bathsheba. "You can't come across," Bathsheba said in a whisper, which she vainly endeavoured to make loud enough to reach Liddy's ears.
Liddy, not knowing this, stepped down upon the swamp, saying, as she did so, "It will bear me up, I think." Bathsheba never forgot that transient little picture of Liddy crossing the swamp to her there in the morning light.
Iridescent bubbles of dank subterranean breath rose from the sweating sod beside the waiting-maid's feet as she trod, hissing as they burst and expanded away to join the vapoury firmament above.
Liddy did not sink, as Bathsheba had anticipated. She landed safely on the other side, and looked up at the beautiful though pale and weary face of her young mistress. "Poor thing!" said Liddy, with tears in her eyes.
Do hearten yourself up a little, ma'am. However did--" "I can't speak above a whisper-my voice is gone for the present," said Bathsheba, hurriedly.
I suppose the damp air from that hollow has taken it away.
Liddy, don't question me, mind.
I thought, when I found you were not at home, that something cruel had happened.
I fancy I heard his voice late last night; and so, knowing something was wrong--" "Is he at home?" "No; he left just before I came out." "Is Fanny taken away?" "Not yet.
She will soon be-at nine o'clock." "We won't go home at present, then.
Suppose we walk about in this wood?" Liddy, without exactly understanding everything, or anything, in this episode, assented, and they walked together further among the trees. "But you had better come in, ma'am, and have something to eat.
Her voice was then a little clearer, and trifling colour returned to her face.
Now we'll walk about again," she said. They wandered about the wood for nearly two hours, Bathsheba replying in monosyllables to Liddy's prattle, for her mind ran on one subject, and one only.
Liddy then ventured to add: "You said when I first found you that you might never go home again-you didn't mean it, ma'am?" "No; I've altered my mind.
It is only women with no pride in them who run away from their husbands.
There is one position worse than that of being found dead in your husband's house from his ill usage, and that is, to be found alive through having gone away to the house of somebody else.
I've thought of it all this morning, and I've chosen my course.
Liddy, if ever you marry-God forbid that you ever should!-you'll find yourself in a fearful situation; but mind this, don't you flinch.
Stand your ground, and be cut to pieces. That's what I'm going to do." "Oh, mistress, don't talk so!" said Liddy, taking her hand; "but I knew you had too much sense to bide away.
May I ask what dreadful thing it is that has happened between you and him?" "You may ask; but I may not tell." In about ten minutes they returned to the house by a circuitous route, entering at the rear.
Well, I shall take up my abode here for a while.
Will you get a fire lighted, put down a piece of carpet, and help me to make the place comfortable?
I hate needle-work-I always did." "Knitting?" "And that, too." "You might finish your sampler.
Only the carnations and peacocks want filling in; and then it could be framed and glazed, and hung beside your aunt's, ma'am." "Samplers are out of date-horribly countrified.
No Liddy, I'll read. Bring up some books-not new ones.
I haven't heart to read anything new." "Some of your uncle's old ones, ma'am?" "Yes.
Some of those we stowed away in boxes.
It is a nice dismal one that would suit you excellent just now." "Now, Lidd, you've been looking into my books, without telling me; and I said you were not to!
How do you know it would suit me?
It wouldn't suit me at all." "But if the others do--" "No, they don't; and I won't read dismal books.
Why should I read dismal books, indeed?
Up against this dark background the west front of the church tower-the only part of the edifice visible from the farm-house windows-rose distinct and lustrous, the vane upon the pinnacle bristling with rays.
Here, about six o'clock, the young men of the village gathered, as was their custom, for a game of fives.
Bathsheba inquired, the next time that Liddy entered the room. "I think 'twas because two men came just then from Casterbridge and began putting up grand carved tombstone," said Liddy.
The lads went to see whose it was." "Do you know?
Bathsheba asked. "I don't," said Liddy. CHAPTER XV. TROY'S ROMANTICISM When Troy's wife had left the house at the previous midnight his first act was to cover the dead from sight.
The clocks struck the hour, and no Fanny appeared.
In fact, at that moment she was being robed in her grave-clothes by two attendants at the Union poorhouse-the first and last tiring-women the gentle creature had ever been honoured with.
The quarter went, the half hour.
A rush of recollection came upon Troy as he waited: this was the second time she had broken a serious engagement with him.
But Fanny's image, as it had appeared to him in the sombre shadows of that Saturday evening, returned to his mind, backed up by Bathsheba's reproaches.
This time she could have made no mistake.
He regretted that he had not remained in Casterbridge and made inquiries.
His walk was towards the churchyard, entering which he searched around till he found a newly dug unoccupied grave.
His method of engaging himself in this business of purchasing a tomb was that of an absolutely unpractised man.
He could not bring himself to consider, calculate, or economize.
He waywardly wished for something, and he set about obtaining it like a child in a nursery.
I want a good tomb," he said to the man who stood in a little office within the yard.
I want as good a one as you can give me for twenty-seven pounds," It was all the money he possessed. "That sum to include everything?" "Everything.
Let's see what you have." "The best I have in stock is this one," said the stonecutter, going into a shed.
Here's a marble headstone beautifully crocketed, with medallions beneath of typical subjects; here's the footstone after the same pattern, and here's the coping to enclose the grave.
Troy then wrote the words which were to form the inscription, settled the account and went away.
In the afternoon he came back again, and found that the lettering was almost done.
He carried rather a heavy basket upon his arm, with which he strode moodily along the road, resting occasionally at bridges and gates, whereon he deposited his burden for a time.
Midway on his journey he met in the darkness the men and the waggon which had conveyed the tomb.
In the midst was mould, suitable for plants. Troy deposited his basket beside the tomb, and vanished for a few minutes.
When he returned he carried a spade and a lantern, the light of which he directed for a few moments upon the tomb, whilst he read the inscription.
He hung his lantern on the lowest bough of the yew tree, and took from his basket flower-roots of several varieties.
He felt a large drop of rain upon the back of his hand, and presently one came and entered the open side of the lantern, whereupon the candle sputtered and went out.
Troy was weary, and it being now not far from midnight, and the rain threatening to increase, he resolved to leave the finishing touches of his labour until the day should break.
He groped along the wall and over the graves in the dark till he found himself round at the south side.
Of these eight carved protuberances only two at this time continued to serve the purpose of their erection-that of spouting the water from the lead roof within.
There was, so to speak, that symmetry in their distortion which is less the characteristic of British than of Continental grotesques of the period.
All the eight were different from each other.
A beholder was convinced that nothing on earth could be more hideous than those he saw on the south side until he went round to the north.
Of the two on this latter face, only that at the north-eastern corner concerns the story.
These during the summer had been cleared from the ground, and there was now nothing to resist the down-fall but the bare earth.
For several years the stream had not spouted so far from the tower as it was doing on this night, and such a contingency had been overlooked.
The rich tawny mould was stirred into motion, and boiled like chocolate.
The water accumulated and washed deeper down, and the roar of the pool thus formed spread into the night as the head and chief among other noises of the kind created by the deluging rain.
The flowers so carefully planted by Fanny's repentant lover began to move and writhe in their bed.
The winter-violets turned slowly upside down, and became a mere mat of mud.
Soon the snowdrop and other bulbs danced in the boiling mass like ingredients in a cauldron.
The path, instead of being stony as it had been the night before, was browned over with a thin coating of mud.
At one place in the path he saw a tuft of stringy roots washed white and clean as a bundle of tendons.
He picked it up-surely it could not be one of the primroses he had planted?
He saw a bulb, another, and another as he advanced.
Beyond doubt they were the crocuses.
With a face of perplexed dismay Troy turned the corner and then beheld the wreck the stream had made. The pool upon the grave had soaked away into the ground, and in its place was a hollow.
The disturbed earth was washed over the grass and pathway in the guise of the brown mud he had already seen, and it spotted the marble tombstone with the same stains.
Nearly all the flowers were washed clean out of the ground, and they lay, roots upwards, on the spots whither they had been splashed by the stream. Troy's brow became heavily contracted.
He set his teeth closely, and his compressed lips moved as those of one in great pain.
This singular accident, by a strange confluence of emotions in him, was felt as the sharpest sting of all.
Troy's face was very expressive, and any observer who had seen him now would hardly have believed him to be a man who had laughed, and sung, and poured love-trifles into a woman's ear.
To curse his miserable lot was at first his impulse, but even that lowest stage of rebellion needed an activity whose absence was necessarily antecedent to the existence of the morbid misery which wrung him.
The sight, coming as it did, superimposed upon the other dark scenery of the previous days, formed a sort of climax to the whole panorama, and it was more than he could endure.
Sanguine by nature, Troy had a power of eluding grief by simply adjourning it.
He could put off the consideration of any particular spectre till the matter had become old and softened by time.
Troy had felt, in his transient way, hundreds of times, that he could not envy other people their condition, because the possession of that condition would have necessitated a different personality, when he desired no other than his own.
This very morning the illusion completed its disappearance, and, as it were, all of a sudden, Troy hated himself.
The suddenness was probably more apparent than real.
He that is accursed, let him be accursed still." was the pitiless anathema written in this spoliated effort of his new-born solicitousness.
A man who has spent his primal strength in journeying in one direction has not much spirit left for reversing his course.
Troy had, since yesterday, faintly reversed his; but the merest opposition had disheartened him.
He did not attempt to fill up the hole, replace the flowers, or do anything at all.
He simply threw up his cards and forswore his game for that time and always.
Going out of the churchyard silently and unobserved-none of the villagers having yet risen-he passed down some fields at the back, and emerged just as secretly upon the high road.
Shortly afterwards he had gone from the village. Meanwhile, Bathsheba remained a voluntary prisoner in the attic.
The door was kept locked, except during the entries and exits of Liddy, for whom a bed had been arranged in a small adjoining room.
Bathsheba sat here till it began to rain, and the light vanished, when she withdrew to lie restlessly in her bed and re-enact in a worn mind the lurid scene of yesternight.
I've been thinking it must have been the water from the tower spouts." "Well, that's what the shepherd was saying, ma'am. He's now gone on to see." "Oh!
Gabriel has been here this morning?" "Only just looked in in passing-quite in his old way, which I thought he had left off lately.
But the tower spouts used to spatter on the stones, and we are puzzled, for this was like the boiling of a pot." Not being able to read, think, or work, Bathsheba asked Liddy to stay and breakfast with her.
The tongue of the more childish woman still ran upon recent events.
Are you going across to the church, ma'am?" she asked. "Not that I know of," said Bathsheba. "I thought you might like to go and see where they have put Fanny.
The tree hides the place from your window." Bathsheba had all sorts of dreads about meeting her husband.
Has Mr. Troy been in to-night?" she said "No, ma'am; I think he's gone to Budmouth." Budmouth!
The sound of the word carried with it a much diminished perspective of him and his deeds; there were thirteen miles interval betwixt them now.
She hated questioning Liddy about her husband's movements, and indeed had hitherto sedulously avoided doing so; but now all the house knew that there had been some dreadful disagreement between them, and it was futile to attempt disguise.
So when breakfast was over, she put on her bonnet, and took a direction towards the church.
It was nine o'clock, and the men having returned to work again from their first meal, she was not likely to meet many of them in the road.
On the other side of the scene stood Gabriel.
His eyes, too, were fixed on the tomb, and her arrival having been noiseless, she had not as yet attracted his attention.
Bathsheba did not at once perceive that the grand tomb and the disturbed grave were Fanny's, and she looked on both sides and around for some humbler mound, earthed up and clodded in the usual way.
But such discoveries did not much affect her now.
She requested Oak to get the churchwardens to turn the leadwork at the mouth of the gurgoyle that hung gaping down upon them, that by this means the stream might be directed sideways, and a repetition of the accident prevented.
The sad accessories of Fanny's end confronted him as vivid pictures which threatened to be indelible, and made life in Bathsheba's house intolerable.
Up the hill stretched a road perfectly straight and perfectly white, the two sides approaching each other in a gradual taper till they met the sky at the top about two miles off.
Throughout the length of this narrow and irksome inclined plane not a sign of life was visible on this garish afternoon.
Troy toiled up the road with a languor and depression greater than any he had experienced for many a day and year before.
Unfortunately for Troy a current unknown to him existed outside, which, unimportant to craft of any burden, was awkward for a swimmer who might be taken in it unawares.
Troy found himself carried to the left and then round in a swoop out to sea. He now recollected the place and its sinister character.
Many bathers had there prayed for a dry death from time to time, and, like Gonzalo also, had been unanswered; and Troy began to deem it possible that he might be added to their number.
She belonged to him: the certainties of that position were so well defined, and the reasonable probabilities of its issue so bounded, that she could not speculate on contingencies.
Once out of the farm, the approach of poverty would be sure. Hence Bathsheba lived in a perception that her purposes were broken off.
Bathsheba's ears were keen as those of any wild animal, and she distinctly heard what the speaker said, though her back was towards him "I am looking for Mrs. Troy.
Is that she there?" "Yes; that's the young lady, I believe," said the the person addressed. "I have some awkward news to break to her.
Her husband is drowned." As if endowed with the spirit of prophecy, Bathsheba gasped out, "Oh, it is not true; it cannot be true!
Then she said and heard no more. The ice of self-command which had latterly gathered over her was broken, and the currents burst forth again, and overwhelmed her.
A darkness came into her eyes, and she fell. But not to the ground.
He lifted her bodily off the ground, and smoothed down the folds of her dress as a child might have taken a storm-beaten bird and arranged its ruffled plumes, and bore her along the pavement to the Three Choughs Inn.
He stood for a moment in the passage to recover his senses.
The experience had been too much for his consciousness to keep up with, and now that he had grasped it it had gone again.
For those few heavenly, golden moments she had been in his arms.
What did it matter about her not knowing it?
She had been close to his breast; he had been close to hers. He started onward again, and sending a woman to her, went out to ascertain all the facts of the case.
These appeared to be limited to what he had already heard.
He then ordered her horse to be put into the gig, and when all was ready returned to inform her.
These proposals Bathsheba gently declined, and the farmer at once departed.
About half an hour later she invigorated herself by an effort, and took her seat and the reins as usual-in external appearance much as if nothing had happened.
She went out of the town by a tortuous back street, and drove slowly along, unconscious of the road and the scene.
The first shades of evening were showing themselves when Bathsheba reached home, when, silently alighting and leaving the horse in the hands of the boy, she proceeded at once upstairs.
Liddy met her on the landing.
The news had preceded Bathsheba to Weatherbury by half an hour, and Liddy looked inquiringly into her mistress's face.
Bathsheba had nothing to say. She entered her bedroom and sat by the window, and thought and thought till night enveloped her, and the extreme lines only of her shape were visible.
It is not necessary." "Why not, ma'am?" "Because he's still alive." "How do you know that?" said Liddy, amazed. "I don't know it.
But wouldn't it have been different, or shouldn't I have heard more, or wouldn't they have found him, Liddy?-or-I don't know how it is, but death would have been different from how this is.
I am full of a feeling that he is still alive!" Bathsheba remained firm in this opinion till Monday, when two circumstances conjoined to shake it.
In this he stated that he was passing over the cliff on the remoter side of the cove just as the sun was setting.
He drifted behind a projection of the coast, and Mr. Barker followed along the shore in the same direction.
A strange reflection occurred to her, causing her face to flush.
Troy had left her, and followed Fanny into another world.
Had he done this intentionally, yet contrived to make his death appear like an accident?
She opened the case as he had opened it before her a week ago.
There was the little coil of pale hair which had been as the fuze to this great explosion. "He was hers and she was his, and they are gone together," she said.
I am nothing to either of them, and why should I keep her hair?
She took it in her hand, and held it over the fire.
Bathsheba, having previously been living in a state of suspended feeling which was not suspense, now lived in a mood of quietude which was not precisely peacefulness.
While she had known him to be alive she could have thought of his death with equanimity; but now that she believed she had lost him, she regretted that he was not hers still.
She kept the farm going, raked in her profits without caring keenly about them, and expended money on ventures because she had done so in bygone days, which, though not long gone by, seemed infinitely removed from her present.
Much of his wheat and all his barley of that season had been spoilt by the rain.
The sight of the pigs turning in disgust from the rotten ears seemed to arouse Boldwood, and he one evening sent for Oak.
Gabriel's malignant star was assuredly setting fast. Bathsheba, when she learnt of this proposal-for Oak was obliged to consult her-at first languidly objected.
Boldwood did not directly communicate with her during these negotiations, only speaking to Oak, who was the go-between throughout.
Whatever d'ye think," said Susan Tall, "Gable Oak is coming it quite the dand.
He now wears shining boots with hardly a hob in 'em, two or three times a-week, and a tall hat a-Sundays, and 'a hardly knows the name of smockfrock.
This fevered hope had grown up again like a grain of mustard-seed during the quiet which followed the universal belief that Troy was drowned.
He nourished it fearfully, and almost shunned the contemplation of it in earnest, lest facts should reveal the wildness of the dream.
How long he might have to wait he had not yet closely considered.
There was a substratum of good feeling in her: her self reproach for the injury she had thoughtlessly done him might be depended upon now to a much greater extent than before her infatuation and disappointment.
It would be possible to approach her by the channel of her good-nature, and to suggest a friendly businesslike compact between them for fulfilment at some future day, keeping the passionate side of his desire entirely out of her sight.
Such was Boldwood's hope. To the eyes of the middle-aged, Bathsheba was perhaps additionally charming just now.
I've been with her all through her troubles, and was with her at the time of Mr. Troy's death and all.
I merely judge on my own account." "Yes, yes, I understand.
When she alludes to the possibility of marrying again, you conclude--" "She never do allude to it, sir," said Liddy, thinking how very stupid Mr. Boldwood was getting. "Of course not," he returned hastily, his hope falling again.
You needn't take quite such long reaches with your rake, Lydia-short and quick ones are best.
She might marry at once in every reasonable person's opinion, whatever the lawyers may say to the contrary." "Have you been to ask them?" said Liddy, innocently. "Not I!" said Boldwood, growing red.
Liddy, you needn't stay here a minute later than you wish, so Mr. Oak says.
I am now going on a little farther.
Good afternoon." He went away vexed with himself, and ashamed of having for this one time in his life done anything which could be called underhand.
Poor Boldwood had no more skill in finesse than a battering-ram, and he was uneasy with a sense of having made himself to appear stupid and, what was worse, mean.
But he had, after all, lighted upon one fact by way of repayment.
It was a singularly fresh and fascinating fact, and though not without its sadness it was pertinent and real.
In little more than six years from this time Bathsheba might certainly marry him.
Six years were a long time, but how much shorter than never, the idea he had for so long been obliged to endure!
Jacob had served twice seven years for Rachel: what were six for such a woman as this?
He tried to like the notion of waiting for her better than that of winning her at once.
He would annihilate the six years of his life as if they were minutes-so little did he value his time on earth beside her love.
To each of the two chief openings on opposite sides a winding road ascended, and the level green space of twenty or thirty acres enclosed by the bank was the site of the fair.
The shepherd of each flock marched behind, a bundle containing his kit for the week strapped upon his shoulders, and in his hand his crook, which he used as the staff of his pilgrimage.
Several of the sheep would get worn and lame, and occasionally a lambing occurred on the road.
These gradually converged upon the base of the hill, and the flocks became individually visible, climbing the serpentine ways which led to the top.
These filed in about nine o'clock, their vermiculated horns lopping gracefully on each side of their cheeks in geometrically perfect spirals, a small pink and white ear nestling under each horn.
Before and behind came other varieties, perfect leopards as to the full rich substance of their coats, and only lacking the spots.
There were also a few of the Oxfordshire breed, whose wool was beginning to curl like a child's flaxen hair, though surpassed in this respect by the effeminate Leicesters, which were in turn less curly than the Cotswolds.
But the most picturesque by far was a small flock of Exmoors, which chanced to be there this year.
Their pied faces and legs, dark and heavy horns, tresses of wool hanging round their swarthy foreheads, quite relieved the monotony of the flocks in that quarter.
All these bleating, panting, and weary thousands had entered and were penned before the morning had far advanced, the dog belonging to each flock being tied to the corner of the pen containing it.
Alleys for pedestrians intersected the pens, which soon became crowded with buyers and sellers from far and near. In another part of the hill an altogether different scene began to force itself upon the eye towards midday.
A circular tent, of exceptional newness and size, was in course of erection here.
Upon my carcase, neighbours, if I could only get out of this cheesewring, the d-- women might eat the show for me!" "Don't ye lose yer temper, Jan!" implored Joseph Poorgrass, in a whisper.
The brig aboard which he was taken in Budmouth Roads was about to start on a voyage, though somewhat short of hands.
Troy read the articles and joined, but before they sailed a boat was despatched across the bay to Carrow Cove; but, as he had half expected, his clothes were gone.
He ultimately worked his passage to the United States, where he made a precarious living in various towns as Professor of Gymnastics, Sword Exercise, Fencing, and Pugilism.
A few months were sufficient to give him a distaste for this kind of life.
There was a certain animal form of refinement in his nature; and however pleasant a strange condition might be whilst privations were easily warded off, it was disadvantageously coarse when money was short.
There was ever present, too, the idea that he could claim a home and its comforts did he but chose to return to England and Weatherbury Farm.
Whether Bathsheba thought him dead was a frequent subject of curious conjecture.
To England he did return at last; but the but the fact of drawing nearer to Weatherbury abstracted its fascinations, and his intention to enter his old groove at the place became modified.
Troy introduced himself to the manager by taming a restive horse of the troupe, hitting a suspended apple with pistol-bullet fired from the animal's back when in full gallop, and other feats.
For his merits in these-all more or less based upon his experiences as a dragoon-guardsman-Troy was taken into the company, and the play of Turpin was prepared with a view to his personation of the chief character.
Troy was not greatly elated by the appreciative spirit in which he was undoubtedly treated, but he thought the engagement might afford him a few weeks for consideration.
This particular show was by far the largest and grandest in the fair, a horde of little shows grouping themselves under its shade like chickens around a hen.
I was looking at this large tent and the announcement.
Have you ever seen the play of 'Turpin's Ride to York?
Turpin was a real man, was he not?" "Oh yes, perfectly true-all of it.
Indeed, I think I've heard Jan Coggan say that a relation of his knew Tom King, Turpin's friend, quite well." "Coggan is rather given to strange stories connected with his relations, we must remember.
I hope they can all be believed." "Yes, yes; we know Coggan.
But Turpin is true enough.
You have never seen it played, I suppose?" "Never.
I was not allowed to go into these places when I was young. Hark! what's that prancing?
How they shout!" "Black Bess just started off, I suppose.
Am I right in supposing you would like to see the performance, Mrs. Troy?
Please excuse my mistake, if it is one; but if you would like to, I'll get a seat for you with pleasure.
Hence as many eyes were turned upon her, enthroned alone in this place of honour, against a scarlet background, as upon the ponies and clown who were engaged in preliminary exploits in the centre, Turpin not having yet appeared.
In a few minutes she noticed the fat red nape of Coggan's neck among those standing just below her, and Joseph Poorgrass's saintly profile a little further on. The interior was shadowy with a peculiar shade.
He started back in utter confusion, for although his disguise effectually concealed his personality, he instantly felt that she would be sure to recognize his voice.
He had several times during the day thought of the possibility of some Weatherbury person or other appearing and recognizing him; but he had taken the risk carelessly.
If they see me, let them, he had said.
But here was Bathsheba in her own person; and the reality of the scene was so much intenser than any of his prefigurings that he felt he had not half enough considered the point.
She looked so charming and fair that his cool mood about Weatherbury people was changed.
He had not expected her to exercise this power over him in the twinkling of an eye.
Should he go on, and care nothing?
He could not bring himself to do that.
He actually blushed at the thought, and was vexed beyond measure that his sentiments of dislike towards Weatherbury should have led him to dally about the country in this way.
But Troy was never more clever than when absolutely at his wit's end.
I tell you how we'll manage," said the other, who perhaps felt it would be extremely awkward to offend his leading man just at this time.
I won't tell them anything about your keeping silence; go on with the piece and say nothing, doing what you can by a judicious wink now and then, and a few indomitable nods in the heroic places, you know.
At the death of Tom King, he could not refrain from seizing Coggan by the hand, and whispering, with tears in his eyes, "Of course he's not really shot, Jan-only seemingly!
Nevertheless, he was relieved when it was got through.
There a second performance in the evening, and the tent was lighted up.
It occurred to him that to find Pennyways, and make a friend of him if possible, would be a very wise act.
He had put on a thick beard borrowed from the establishment, and in this he wandered about the fair-field.
It was now almost dark, and respectable people were getting their carts and gigs ready to go home. The largest refreshment-booth in the fair was provided by an innkeeper from a neighbouring town.
This was considered an unexceptionable place for obtaining the necessary food and rest: Host Trencher (as he was jauntily called by the local newspaper) being a substantial man of high repute for catering through all the county round.
He could see nothing of Pennyways, but he soon discerned Bathsheba through an opening into the reserved space at the further end.
Troy thereupon retreated, went round the tent into the darkness, and listened.
He could hear Bathsheba's voice immediately inside the canvas; she was conversing with a man.
A warmth overspread his face: surely she was not so unprincipled as to flirt in a fair!
He wondered if, then, she reckoned upon his death as an absolute certainty.
To get at the root of the matter, Troy took a penknife from his pocket and softly made two little cuts crosswise in the cloth, which, by folding back the corners left a hole the size of a wafer.
Close to this he placed his face, withdrawing it again in a movement of surprise; for his eye had been within twelve inches of the top of Bathsheba's head.
It was too near to be convenient.
He made another hole a little to one side and lower down, in a shaded place beside her chair, from which it was easy and safe to survey her by looking horizontally. Troy took in the scene completely now.
She was handsome as ever, and she was his.
It was some minutes before he could counteract his sudden wish to go in, and claim her.
Then he thought how the proud girl who had always looked down upon him even whilst it was to love him, would hate him on discovering him to be a strolling player.
Were he to make himself known, that chapter of his life must at all risks be kept for ever from her and from the Weatherbury people, or his name would be a byword throughout the parish.
He would be nicknamed "Turpin" as long as he lived.
Assuredly before he could claim her these few past months of his existence must be entirely blotted out. "Shall I get you another cup before you start, ma'am?" said Farmer Boldwood. "Thank you," said Bathsheba.
But I must be going at once.
It was great neglect in that man to keep me waiting here till so late.
I should have gone two hours ago, if it had not been for him.
She took out her purse and was insisting to Boldwood on paying for her tea for herself, when at this moment Pennyways entered the tent.
Troy trembled: here was his scheme for respectability endangered at once.
He stooped over the table, pulled a leaf from a warped pocket-book, and wrote upon the paper, in a round hand- "_Your husband is here.
Who's the fool now?_" This he folded small, and handed towards her.
Bathsheba would not read it; she would not even put out her hand to take it.
Nothing that he could think of could be done to check the exposure.
Curse my luck!" he whispered, and added imprecations which rustled in the gloom like a pestilent wind. Meanwhile Boldwood said, taking up the note from her lap- "Don't you wish to read it, Mrs. Troy?
If not, I'll destroy it." "Oh, well," said Bathsheba, carelessly, "perhaps it is unjust not to read it; but I can guess what it is about.
He wants me to recommend him, or it is to tell me of some little scandal or another connected with my workpeople.
He's always doing that." Bathsheba held the note in her right hand.
One or two men were speaking of a daring attempt that had just been made to rob a young lady by lifting the canvas of the tent beside her.
But having fallen in with Farmer Boldwood accidentally (on her part at least) at the refreshment-tent, she found it impossible to refuse his offer to ride on horseback beside her as escort.
Boldwood mounted his horse, and followed in close attendance behind.
Thus they descended into the lowlands, and the sounds of those left on the hill came like voices from the sky, and the lights were as those of a camp in heaven.
A man saw him drowning, too.
But though I am fully persuaded that I shall see him no more, I am far from thinking of marriage with another.
Boldwood ended the pause. "Do you remember when I carried you fainting in my arms into the Three Choughs, in Casterbridge?
I mean, you know, I am sorry you thought I-" "I have always this dreary pleasure in thinking over those past times with you-that I was something to you before _he_ was anything, and that you belonged _almost_ to me.
But, of course, that's nothing.
You never liked me." "I did; and respected you, too." "Do you now?" "Yes." "Which?" "How do you mean which?" "Do you like me, or do you respect me?" "I don't know-at least, I cannot tell you.
It is difficult for a woman to define her feelings in language which is chiefly made by men to express theirs.
My treatment of you was thoughtless, inexcusable, wicked.
I shall eternally regret it.
If there had been anything I could have done to make amends I would most gladly have done it-there was nothing on earth I so longed to do as to repair the error.
If I wait that time, will you marry me?
You own that you owe me amends-let that be your way of making them." "But, Mr. Boldwood-six years-" "Do you want to be the wife of any other man?" "No indeed!
I mean, that I don't like to talk about this matter now. Perhaps it is not proper, and I ought not to allow it.
Let us drop it for the present, please do!" "Of course, I'll drop the subject if you wish.
But propriety has nothing to do with reasons.
I am a middle-aged man, willing to protect you for the remainder of our lives.
On your side, at least, there is no passion or blameable haste-on mine, perhaps, there is.
Haven't you been almost mine once already?
Surely you can say to me as much as this, you will have me back again should circumstances permit?
O Bathsheba, promise-it is only a little promise-that if you marry again, you will marry me!" His tone was so excited that she almost feared him at this moment, even whilst she sympathized.
It was a simple physical fear-the weak of the strong; there no emotional aversion or inner repugnance.
Unexpected accidents we'll not mention, because those, of course, must be given way to.
Now, this time I know you will keep your word." "That's why I hesitate to give it." "But do give it!
Remember the past, and be kind." She breathed; and then said mournfully: "Oh what shall I do!
I don't love you, and I much fear that I never shall love you as much as a woman ought to love a husband.
If you, sir, know that, and I can yet give you happiness by a mere promise without feeling, and just in friendliness, to marry at the end of six years, it is a great honour to me.
When the weeks intervening between the night of this conversation and Christmas day began perceptibly to diminish, her anxiety and perplexity increased. One day she was led by an accident into an oddly confidential dialogue with Gabriel about her difficulty.
It afforded her a little relief-of a dull and cheerless kind.
His career depends entirely upon my treatment of him.
His natural manner has always been dark and strange, you know. But since the case is so sad and odd-like, why don't ye give the conditional promise?
I think I would." "But is it right?
Some rash acts of my past life have taught me that a watched woman must have very much circumspection to retain only a very little credit, and I do want and long to be discreet in this!
And six years-why we may all be in our graves by that time!
Indeed the long time and the uncertainty of the whole thing give a sort of absurdity to the scheme.
Now, isn't it preposterous, Gabriel?
However he came to dream of it, I cannot think.
In fact the very thing that makes it doubtful if you ought to marry en under any condition, that is, your not caring about him-for I may suppose--" "Yes, you may suppose that love is wanting," she said shortly.
Love is an utterly bygone, sorry, worn-out, miserable thing with me-for him or any one else." "Well, your want of love seems to me the one thing that takes away harm from such an agreement with him.
If wild heat had to do wi' it, making ye long to overcome the awkwardness about your husband's death, it might be wrong; but a cold-hearted agreement to oblige a man seems different, somehow.
The real sin, ma'am, in my mind, lies in thinking of ever wedding with a man you don't love honest and true." "That I'm willing to pay the penalty of," said Bathsheba, firmly.
You know, Gabriel, this is what I cannot get off my conscience-that I once seriously injured him in sheer idleness.
If I had never played a trick upon him, he would never have wanted to marry me.
When a rake gambles away his expectations, the fact that it is an inconvenient debt doesn't make him the less liable.
I well know what would have brought him back long before this time if he had lived." "Well, then, in religious sense you must be as free to think o' marrying again as any other widow of one year's standing.
But why don't ye ask Mr. Thirdly's advice on how to treat Mr. Boldwood?" "No. When I want a broad-minded opinion for general enlightenment, distinct from special advice, I never go to a man who deals in the subject professionally.
Yet in the centremost parts of her complicated heart there existed at this minute a little pang of disappointment, for a reason she would not allow herself to recognize.
Oak had not once wished her free that he might marry her himself-had not once said, "I could wait for you as well as he.
That was the insect sting.
Not that she would have listened to any such hypothesis.
Oh no-for wasn't she saying all the time that such thoughts of the future were improper, and wasn't Gabriel far too poor a man to speak sentiment to her?
Yet he might have just hinted about that old love of his, and asked, in a playful off hand way, if he might speak of it.
It would have seemed pretty and sweet, if no more; and then she would have shown how kind and inoffensive a woman's "No" can sometimes be.
It was not that the rarity of Christmas parties in the parish made this one a wonder, but that Boldwood should be the giver.
The announcement had had an abnormal and incongruous sound, as if one should hear of croquet-playing in a cathedral aisle, or that some much-respected judge was going upon the stage.
That the party was intended to be a truly jovial one there was no room for doubt.
A large bough of mistletoe had been brought from the woods that day, and suspended in the hall of the bachelor's home.
Holly and ivy had followed in armfuls.
Such a thing had never been attempted before by its owner, and it was now done as by a wrench.
She had called for candles, and Liddy entered and placed one on each side of her mistress's glass. "Don't go away, Liddy," said Bathsheba, almost timidly.
I am foolishly agitated-I cannot tell why.
I wish I had not been obliged to go to this dance; but there's no escaping now.
But I am _the cause_ of the party, and that upsets me.-Don't tell, Liddy." "Oh no, ma'am, You the cause of it, ma'am?" "Yes.
I am the reason of the party-I.
If it had not been for me, there would never have been one.
I can't explain any more-there's no more to be explained.
I wish I had never seen Weatherbury." "That's wicked of you-to wish to be worse off than you are." "No, Liddy.
I have never been free from trouble since I have lived here, and this party is likely to bring me more.
Now, fetch my black silk dress, and see how it sits upon me." "But you will leave off that, surely, ma'am?
You have been a widow-lady fourteen months, and ought to brighten up a little on such a night as this." "Is it necessary?
No; I will appear as usual, for if I were to wear any light dress people would say things about me, and I should seem to be rejoicing when I am solemn all the time.
The party doesn't suit me a bit; but never mind, stay and help to finish me off." III. Boldwood was dressing also at this hour.
A tailor from Casterbridge was with him, assisting him in the operation of trying on a new coat that had just been brought home. Never had Boldwood been so fastidious, unreasonable about the fit, and generally difficult to please.
The tailor walked round and round him, tugged at the waist, pulled the sleeve, pressed out the collar, and for the first time in his experience Boldwood was not bored.
Boldwood at last expressed himself nearly satisfied, and paid the bill, the tailor passing out of the door just as Oak came in to report progress for the day. "Oh, Oak," said Boldwood.
I shall of course see you here to-night. Make yourself merry.
I am determined that neither expense nor trouble shall be spared." "I'll try to be here, sir, though perhaps it may not be very early," said Gabriel, quietly.
And sometimes, when I am excessively hopeful and blithe, a trouble is looming in the distance: so that I often get to look upon gloom in me with content, and to fear a happy mood.
Still this may be absurd-I feel that it is absurd.
Perhaps my day is dawning at last." "I hope it will be a long and a fair one." "Thank you-thank you.
Yet perhaps my cheerfulness rests on a slender hope.
And yet I trust my hope.
It is faith, not hope.
I think this time I reckon with my host.-Oak, my hands are a little shaky, or something; I can't tie this neckerchief properly.
Perhaps you will tie it for me. The fact is, I have not been well lately, you know." "I am sorry to hear that, sir." "Oh, it's nothing.
I want it done as well as you can, please.
Is there any late knot in fashion, Oak?" "I don't know, sir," said Oak.
You have got quite cynical lately-how is it?
We seem to have shifted our positions: I have become the young and hopeful man, and you the old and unbelieving one.
However, does a woman keep a promise, not to marry, but to enter on an engagement to marry at some time?
Now you know women better than I-tell me." "I am afeard you honour my understanding too much.
I have pressed her upon the subject, and she inclines to be kind to me, and to think of me as a husband at a long future time, and that's enough for me.
How can I expect more?
She has a notion that a woman should not marry within seven years of her husband's death-that her own self shouldn't, I mean-because his body was not found.
It may be merely this legal reason which influences her, or it may be a religious one, but she is reluctant to talk on the point.
Yet she has promised-implied-that she will ratify an engagement to-night." "Seven years," murmured Oak. "No, no-it's no such thing!" he said, with impatience.
Five years, nine months, and a few days.
Fifteen months nearly have passed since his death, and is there anything so wonderful in an engagement of little more than five years?" "It seems long in a forward view.
Don't build too much upon such promises, sir.
Remember, you have once been deceived.
Her maning may be good; but there-she's young yet." "Deceived?
She never promised me at that first time, and hence she did not break her promise.
If she promises me, she'll marry me.
Bathsheba is a woman to her word." IV. Troy was sitting in a small apartment in a small tavern at Casterbridge, smoking and drinking a steaming mixture from a glass.
A knock was given at the door, and Pennyways entered. "Well, have you seen him?
Troy inquired, pointing to a chair. "Boldwood?" "No-Lawyer Long." "He wadn' at home.
I went there first, too." "That's a nuisance." "'Tis rather, I suppose." "Yet I don't see that, because a man appears to be drowned and was not, he should be liable for anything.
I shan't ask any lawyer-not I." "But that's not it, exactly.
Troy had laughed, but it was with some anxiety that he said, "Now, what I want to know is this, do you think there's really anything going on between her and Boldwood?
Upon my soul, I should never have believed it!
How she must detest me!
Have you found out whether she has encouraged him?" "I haen't been able to learn.
There's a deal of feeling on his side seemingly, but I don't answer for her.
I didn't know a word about any such thing till yesterday, and all I heard then was that she was gwine to the party at his house to-night.
This is the first time she has ever gone there, they say.
She's a handsome woman, Pennyways, is she not?
Own that you never saw a finer or more splendid creature in your life.
He smoked on awhile, and then added, "How did she look when you passed by yesterday?" "Oh, she took no great heed of me, ye may well fancy; but she looked well enough, far's I know.
Just flashed her haughty eyes upon my poor scram body, and then let them go past me to what was yond, much as if I'd been no more than a leafless tree.
Ay, and there were the fellers round her wringing down the cheese and bustling about and saying, 'Ware o' the pommy, ma'am: 'twill spoil yer gown.
Never mind me,' says she.
Then Gabe brought her some of the new cider, and she must needs go drinking it through a strawmote, and not in a nateral way at all.
Liddy,' says she, 'bring indoors a few gallons, and I'll make some cider-wine.
Sergeant, I was no more to her than a morsel of scroff in the fuel house!" "I must go and find her out at once-Oh yes, I see that-I must go.
Oak is head man still, isn't he?" "Yes, 'a b'lieve.
And at Lower Farm too.
He manages everything." "'Twill puzzle him to manage her, or any other man of his compass." "I don't know about that.
She can't do without him, and knowing it well he's pretty independent.
And she've a few soft corners to her mind, though I've never been able to get into one, the devil's in't." "Ah baily she's a notch above you, and you must own it: a higher class of animal-a finer tissue.
However, stick to me, and neither this haughty goddess, dashing piece of womanhood, Juno-wife of mine (Juno was a goddess, you know), nor anybody else shall hurt you.
But all this wants looking into, I perceive.
At least they'll say so.
Can't my hair be brushed down a little flatter?
I dread going-yet I dread the risk of wounding him by staying away." "Anyhow, ma'am, you can't well be dressed plainer than you are, unless you go in sackcloth at once.
Tis your excitement is what makes you look so noticeable to-night." "I don't know what's the matter, I feel wretched at one time, and buoyant at another.
Mind, I won't hear joking on any such matter.
That share is small, too small, considering how little I attend to business now, and how much time and thought you give to it.
Well, since the world is brightening for me, I want to show my sense of it by increasing your proportion in the partnership.
I'll make a memorandum of the arrangement which struck me as likely to be convenient, for I haven't time to talk about it now; and then we'll discuss it at our leisure.
My intention is ultimately to retire from the management altogether, and until you can take all the expenditure upon your shoulders, I'll be a sleeping partner in the stock.
Then, if I marry her-and I hope-I feel I shall, why--" "Pray don't speak of it, sir," said Oak, hastily.
We don't know what may happen.
So many upsets may befall ye.
There's many a slip, as they say-and I would advise you-I know you'll pardon me this once-not to be _too sure_." "I know, I know.
But the feeling I have about increasing your share is on account of what I know of you.
Oak, I have learnt a little about your secret: your interest in her is more than that of bailiff for an employer.
I must get used to such as that; other men have, and so shall I." Oak then left him.
But he lingered to open the cover and take a momentary glance inside.
It contained a woman's finger-ring, set all the way round with small diamonds, and from its appearance had evidently been recently purchased.
Boldwood closed the box, stowed it away carefully in his pocket, and went out upon the landing.
The old man who was his indoor factotum came at the same moment to the foot of the stairs. "They be coming, sir-lots of 'em-a-foot and a-driving!" "I was coming down this moment.
Yes; of course I have." "Why not write to her?
Tis a very queer corner that you have got into, sergeant.
You see all these things will come to light if you go back, and they won't sound well at all.
Faith, if I was you I'd even bide as you be-a single man of the name of Francis.
A good wife is good, but the best wife is not so good as no wife at all.
Now that's my outspoke mind, and I've been called a long-headed feller here and there." "All nonsense!" said Troy, angrily.
There she is with plenty of money, and a house and farm, and horses, and comfort, and here am I living from hand to mouth-a needy adventurer.
Besides, it is no use talking now; it is too late, and I am glad of it; I've been seen and recognized here this very afternoon.
I should have gone back to her the day after the fair, if it hadn't been for you talking about the law, and rubbish about getting a separation; and I don't put it off any longer.
What the deuce put it into my head to run away at all, I can't think!
Humbugging sentiment-that's what it was.
But what man on earth was to know that his wife would be in such a hurry to get rid of his name!" "I should have known it.
She's bad enough for anything." "Pennyways, mind who you are talking to." "Well, sergeant, all I say is this, that if I were you I'd go abroad again where I came from-'tisn't too late to do it now.
I wouldn't stir up the business and get a bad name for the sake of living with her-for all that about your play-acting is sure to come out, you know, although you think otherwise.
My eyes and limbs, there'll be a racket if you go back just now-in the middle of Boldwood's Christmasing!" "H'm, yes.
I expect I shall not be a very welcome guest if he has her there," said the sergeant, with a slight laugh.
Well, what is there besides?
I sometimes think she likes you yet, and is a good woman at bottom," he said, as a saving sentence.
But there's no telling to a certainty from a body's outside.
And I for one believe it.
His body was never found, you know." "'Tis a strange story," said the next.
You may depend upon't that she knows nothing about it." "Not a word." "Perhaps he don't mean that she shall," said another man. "If he's alive and here in the neighbourhood, he means mischief," said the first.
Poor young thing: I do pity her, if 'tis true.
She is so self-willed and independent too, that one is more minded to say it serves her right than pity her." "No, no!
I don't hold with ye there.
She was no otherwise than a girl mind, and how could she tell what the man was made of.
If 'tis really true, 'tis too hard a punishment, and more than she ought to hae.-Hullo, who's that?
This was to some footsteps that were heard approaching. "William Smallbury," said a dim figure in the shades, coming up and joining them.
Dark as a hedge, to-night, isn't it?
I all but missed the plank over the river ath'art there in the bottom-never did such a thing before in my life.
Be ye any of Boldwood's workfolk?
He peered into their faces. "Yes-all o' us.
We met here a few minutes ago." "Oh, I hear now-that's Sam Samway: thought I knowed the voice, too. Going in?" "Presently.
But I say, William," Samway whispered, "have ye heard this strange tale?" "What-that about Sergeant Troy being seen, d'ye mean, souls?" said Smallbury, also lowering his voice. "Ay: in Casterbridge." "Yes, I have.
Laban Tall named a hint of it to me but now-but I don't think it.
Hark, here Laban comes himself, 'a b'lieve.
A footstep drew near. "Laban?" "Yes, 'tis I," said Tall. "Have ye heard any more about that?" "No," said Tall, joining the group.
And I'm inclined to think we'd better keep quiet.
If so be 'tis not true, 'twill flurry her, and do her much harm to repeat it; and if so be 'tis true, 'twill do no good to forestall her time o' trouble.
God send that it may be a lie, for though Henery Fray and some of 'em do speak against her, she's never been anything but fair to me.
Ay, all the harm she thinks she says to yer face: there's nothing underhand wi' her." They stood silent then, every man busied with his own thoughts, during which interval sounds of merriment could be heard within.
We'd better stand quiet-he'll go in again directly.
He would think it unseemly o' us to be loitering here." Boldwood came on, and passed by the men without seeing them, they being under the bushes on the grass.
He paused, leant over the gate, and breathed a long breath.
They heard low words come from him. "I hope to God she'll come, or this night will be nothing but misery to me.
Oh my darling, my darling, why do you keep me in suspense like this!" He said this to himself, and they all distinctly heard it.
Boldwood remained silent after that, and the noise from indoors was again just audible, until, a few minutes later, light wheels could be distinguished coming down the hill.
They drew nearer, and ceased at the gate.
More harm may come of this than we know of.
Poor Mr. Boldwood, it will be hard upon en.
I wish Troy was in--.
Well, God forgive me for such a wish!
A scoundrel to play a poor wife such tricks.
Nothing has prospered in Weatherbury since he came here.
And now I've no heart to go in. Let's look into Warren's, shall us, neighbours?" Samway, Tall, and Smallbury agreed to go, and went out at the gate, the remaining ones entering the house.
The three soon drew near the malt-house, approaching it from the adjoining orchard, and not by way of the street.
The pane of glass was illuminated as usual.
Smallbury was a little in advance of the rest, when, pausing, he turned suddenly to his companions and said, "Hist!
See there." The light from the pane was now perceived to be shining not upon the ivied wall as usual, but upon some object close to the glass.
It was a human face. "Let's come closer," whispered Samway; and they approached on tiptoe. There was no disbelieving the report any longer.
The air was big with Bathsheba's fortunes to-night: every word everywhere concerned her.
When they were quite out of earshot all by one instinct paused. "It gave me quite a turn-his face," said Tall, breathing. "And so it did me," said Samway.
What's to be done?" "I don't see that 'tis any business of ours," Smallbury murmured dubiously. "Oh, yes.
Tis a thing which is everybody's business," said Samway.
We know very well that master's on a wrong tack, and that she's quite in the dark, and we should let 'em know at once.
Laban, you know her best-you'd better go and ask to speak to her." "I bain't fit for any such thing," said Laban, nervously.
I should think William ought to do it if anybody.
He's oldest." "I shall have nothing to do with it," said Smallbury.
Tis a ticklish business altogether.
Why, he'll go on to her himself in a few minutes, ye'll see." "We don't know that he will.
Come, Laban." "Very well, if I must I must, I suppose," Tall reluctantly answered. "What must I say?" "Just ask to see master." "Oh no; I shan't speak to Mr. Boldwood.
If I tell anybody, 'twill be mistress." "Very well," said Samway. Laban then went to the door.
Perhaps she won't come and speak to him." The door opened.
Tall appeared, and joined them. "Well?" said both. "I didn't like to ask for her after all," Laban faltered out.
The younger men and maids were at last just beginning to dance.
Bathsheba had been perplexed how to act, for she was not much more than a slim young maid herself, and the weight of stateliness sat heavy upon her.
We've hardly begun." "If you'll excuse me, I should like to go now.
You know perhaps what I long to say?" Bathsheba silently looked on the floor. "You do give it?" he said, eagerly. "What?" she whispered. "Now, that's evasion!
I don't want to intrude upon you at all, or to let it become known to anybody.
But do give your word!
A mere business compact, you know, between two people who are beyond the influence of passion.
Boldwood knew how false this picture was as regarded himself; but he had proved that it was the only tone in which she would allow him to approach her.
A promise to marry me at the end of five years and three-quarters.
You owe it to me!" "I feel that I do," said Bathsheba; "that is, if you demand it.
But I am a changed woman-an unhappy woman-and not-not--" "You are still a very beautiful woman, said Boldwood.
And I don't at all know what is right to do in my diddicult position, and I have nobody to advise me.
But I give my promise, if I must.
I give it as the rendering of a debt." "You'll marry me between five and six years hence." "Don't press me too hard.
I'll marry nobody else." "But surely you will name the time, or there's nothing in the promise at all." "Oh I don't know, pray let me go!" she said, her bosom beginning to rise.
I am afraid what to do!
I want to be just to you, and to be that seems to be wronging myself, and perhaps it is breaking the commandments.
Promise yourself to me; I deserve it, indeed I do, for I have loved you more than anybody in the world.
And if I said hasty words and showed uncalled-for heat of manner towards you, believe me, dear, I did not mean to distress you; I was in agony, Bathsheba, and I did not know what I said.
You wouldn't let a dog suffer what I have suffered, could you but know it!
Sometimes I shrink from your knowing what I have felt for you, and sometimes I am distressed that all of it you never will know.
And you'll not-press me-about anything more-if I say in five or six years?" she sobbed, when she had power to frame the words. "Yes, then I'll leave it to time." She waited a moment.
Oh I cannot wear a ring!" she exclaimed, on seeing what he held; "besides, I wouldn't have a soul know that it's an engagement. Perhaps it is improper.
Besides, we are not engaged in the usual sense, are we?
And Boldwood slipped the ring on her finger. "I cannot wear it," she said, weeping as if her heart would break.
Please let me go home!" "Only to-night: wear it just to-night, to please me." Bathsheba sat down in a chair, and buried her face in her handkerchief, though Boldwood kept her hand yet.
At length she said, in a sort of hopeless whisper,- "Very well, then, I will to-night, if you wish it so earnestly.
I am happy now," he said.
God bless you!" He left the room, and when he thought she might be sufficiently composed sent one of the maids to her.
Bathsheba cloaked the effects of the late scene as she best could, followed the girl, and in a few moments came downstairs with her hat and cloak on, ready to go.
At the lower end, which had been arranged for the workfolk specially, a group conversed in whispers, and with clouded looks.
Anybody married or engaged, born or dead?" inquired the farmer, gaily.
Tell it to us, Tall.
If you have anything to say, speak out; if not, get up another dance." "Mrs. Troy has come downstairs," said Samway to Tall.
If you want to tell her, you had better do it now." "Do you know what they mean?" the farmer asked Bathsheba, across the room. "I don't in the least," said Bathsheba. There was a smart rapping at the door.
One of the men opened it instantly, and went outside. "Mrs. Troy is wanted," he said, on returning. "Quite ready," said Bathsheba.
She was leaning on the stairs.
Her brow had heavily contracted; her whole face was pallid, her lips apart, her eyes rigidly staring at their visitor. Boldwood was among those who did not notice that he was Troy.
Come in, come in!" he repeated, cheerfully, "and drain a Christmas beaker with us, stranger!" Troy next advanced into the middle of the room, took off his cap, turned down his coat-collar, and looked Boldwood in the face.
Even then Boldwood did not recognize that the impersonator of Heaven's persistent irony towards him, who had once before broken in upon his bliss, scourged him, and snatched his delight away, had come to do these things a second time.
Troy began to laugh a mechanical laugh: Boldwood recognized him now. [Illustration: TROY NEXT ADVANCED INTO THE MIDDLE OF THE ROOM AND TOOK OFF HIS CAP.] Troy turned to Bathsheba.
The poor girl's wretchedness at this time was beyond all fancy or narration.
She had sunk down on the lowest stair; and there she sat, her mouth blue and dry, and her dark eyes fixed vacantly upon him, as if she wondered whether it were not all a terrible illusion. Then Troy spoke.
Bathsheba, I come here for you!" She made no reply. "Come home with me: come!" Bathsheba moved her feet a little, but did not rise.
Troy went across to her. "Come, madam, do you hear what I say?" he said, peremptorily. A strange voice came from the fireplace-a voice sounding far off and confined, as if from a dungeon.
Hardly a soul in the assembly recognized the thin tones to be those of Boldwood.
Sudden despair had transformed him. "Bathsheba, go with your husband!" Nevertheless, she did not move.
The truth was that Bathsheba was beyond the pale of activity-and yet not in a swoon.
This visible dread of him seemed to irritate Troy, and he seized her arm and pulled it sharply.
The oak partition shook with the concussion, and the place was filled with grey smoke. In bewilderment they turned their eyes to Boldwood.
At his back, as stood before the fireplace, was a gun-rack, as is usual in farmhouses, constructed to hold two guns.
When Bathsheba had cried out in her husband's grasp, Boldwood's face of gnashing despair had changed.
The veins had swollen, and a frenzied look had gleamed in his eye.
He had turned quickly, taken one of the guns, cocked it, and at once discharged it at Troy. Troy fell.
The distance apart of the two men was so small that the charge of shot did not spread in the least, but passed like a bullet into his body.
He uttered a long guttural sigh-there was a contraction-an extension-then his muscles relaxed, and he lay still. Boldwood was seen through the smoke to be now again engaged with the gun.
Boldwood had already twitched the handkerchief, and the gun exploded a second time, sending its contents, by a timely blow from Samway, into the beam which crossed the ceiling. "Well, it makes no difference," Boldwood gasped.
There is another way for me to die." Then he broke from Samway, crossed the room to Bathsheba, and kissed her hand.
He put on his hat, opened the door, and went into the darkness, nobody thinking of preventing him. CHAPTER XXIV. AFTER THE SHOCK Boldwood passed into the high road and turned in the direction of Casterbridge.
Here he walked at an even, steady pace over Buck's Head, along the dead level beyond, mounted Casterbridge Hill, and between eleven and twelve o'clock descended into the town.
The streets were nearly deserted now, and the waving lamp-flames only lighted up rows of grey shop-shutters, and strips of white paving upon which his step echoed as he passed along.
He turned to the left, and halted before an archway of old brown brick, which was closed by an iron studded pair of doors.
This was the entrance to the gaol, and over it a lamp was fixed, the light enabling the wretched traveller to find a bell-pull. The small wicket at last opened, and a porter appeared.
Boldwood stepped forward, and said something in a low tone, when, after a delay, another man came.
Boldwood entered, and the door was closed behind him, and he walked the world no more. Long before this time Weatherbury had been thoroughly aroused, and the wild deed which had terminated Boldwood's merrymaking became known to all.
Of those out of the house Oak was one of the first to hear of the catastrophe, and when he entered the room, which was about five minutes after Boldwood's exit, the scene was terrible.
All the female guests were huddled aghast against the walls like sheep in a storm, and the men were bewildered as to what to do.
As for Bathsheba, she had changed.
She was sitting on the floor beside the body of Troy, his head pillowed in her lap, where she had herself lifted it.
With one hand she held her handkerchief to his breast and covered the wound, though scarcely a single drop of blood had flowed, and with the other she tightly clasped one of his.
The household convulsion had made her herself again.
The temporary coma had ceased, and activity had come with the necessity for it.
Deeds of endurance, which seem ordinary in philosophy, are rare in conduct, and Bathsheba was astonishing all around her now, for her philosophy was her conduct, and she seldom thought practicable what she did not practise.
She was of the stuff of which great men's mothers are made.
Ride to Casterbridge instantly for a surgeon.
It is, I believe, useless, but go.
What had become of Boldwood?
He should have been looked after.
Was he mad-had there been a quarrel?
Then how had Troy got there?
Where had he come from?
How did this remarkable reappearance come to pass when he was supposed to be at the bottom of the sea?
Oak had in some slight measure been prepared for the presence of Troy by hearing a rumour of his return just before entering Boldwood's house; but before he had weighed that information, this fatal event had been superimposed.
A was quite dead, sir." This was astonishing information.
She had no right to do that," said the doctor.
There will have to be an inquest, and she should have waited to know what to do." "Yes, sir; it was hinted to her that she had better wait till the law was known.
The first person he met was poor Liddy, who seemed literally to have dwindled smaller in these few latter hours.
What has been done?" he said. "I don't know, sir," said Liddy, with suspended breath.
My mistress has done it all." "Where is she?" "Upstairs with him, sir.
When he was brought home and taken upstairs, she said she wanted no further help from the men.
But I thought I'd wait in the next room in case she should want me.
I heard her moving about inside for more than an hour, but she only came out once, and that was for more candles, because hers had burnt down into the socket.
She said we were to let her know when you or Mr. Thirdly came, sir." Oak entered with the parson at this moment, and they all went upstairs together, preceded by Liddy Smallbury.
Everything was silent as the grave when they paused on the landing.
Liddy knocked, and Bathsheba's dress was heard rustling across the room: the key turned in the lock, and she opened the door.
Her looks were calm and nearly rigid, like a slightly animated bust of Melpomene. "Oh, Mr. Granthead, you have come at last," she murmured from her lips merely, and threw back the door.
Well, all is done, and anybody in the world may see him now.
Everything around was quite orderly.
The doctor went in, and after a few minutes returned to the landing again, where Oak and the parson still waited. "It is all done, indeed, as she says," remarked Mr. Granthead, in a subdued voice.
The body has been undressed and properly laid out in grave clothes.
She must have the nerve of a stoic!" "The heart of a wife merely," floated in a whisper about the ears of the three, and turning they saw Bathsheba in the midst of them.
Then as if at that instant to prove that her fortitude had been more of will than of spontaneity, she silently sank down between them and was a shapeless heap of drapery on the floor.
The sufferer was got to bed, and Oak, finding from the bulletins that nothing really dreadful was to be apprehended on her score, left the house.
Liddy kept watch in Bathsheba's chamber, where she heard her mistress, moaning in whispers through the dull slow hours of that wretched night: "Oh, it is my fault-how can I live!
Oh Heaven, how can I live!" CHAPTER XXV. THE MARCH FOLLOWING-"BATHSHEBA BOLDWOOD" We pass rapidly on into the month of March, to a breezy day without sunshine, frost, or dew.
On Yallbury Hill, about midway between Weatherbury and Casterbridge, where the turnpike road passes over the crest, a numerous concourse of people had gathered, the eyes of the greater number being frequently stretched afar in a northerly direction.
The groups consisted of a throng of idlers, a party of javelin-men, and two trumpeters, and in the midst were carriages, one of which contained the high sheriff.
Did ye notice my lord judge's face?" "I did," said Poorgrass.
Twill disturb his mind more than anything to see us there staring at him as if he were a show." "The very thing I said this morning," observed Joseph.
Justice is come to weigh him in the balance,' I said in my reflectious way, 'and if he's found wanting, so be it unto him,' and a bystander said 'Hear, hear!
A man who can talk like that ought to be heard.
But I don't like dwelling upon it, for my few words are my few words, and not much; though the speech of some men is rumoured abroad as though by nature formed for such." "So 'tis, Joseph.
And now, neighbours, as I said, every man bide at home." The resolution was adhered to; and all waited anxiously for the news next day.
In a locked closet was now discovered an extraordinary collection of articles.
There were several sets of ladies' dresses in the piece, of sundry expensive materials; silks and satins, poplins and velvets, all of colours which from Bathsheba's style of dress might have been judged to be her favourites.
There were two muffs, sable and ermine.
Above all there was a case of jewellery, containing four heavy gold bracelets and several lockets and rings, all of fine quality and manufacture.
These things had been bought in Bath and other towns from time to time, and brought home by stealth.
He came in the afternoon, and his face, as the kiln glow shone upon it, told the tale sufficiently well.
Boldwood, as every one supposed he would do, had pleaded guilty, and had been sentenced to death. The conviction that Boldwood had not been morally responsible for his later acts now became general.
Facts elicited previous to the trial had pointed strongly in the same direction, but they had not been of sufficient weight to lead to an order for an examination into the state of Boldwood's mind.
It was not "numerously signed" by the inhabitants of Casterbridge, as is usual in such cases, for Boldwood had never made many friends over the counter.
The execution had been fixed for eight o'clock on a Saturday morning about a fortnight after the sentence was passed, and up to Friday afternoon no answer had been received.
At that time Gabriel came from Casterbridge Gaol, whither he had been to wish Boldwood good-bye, and turned down a by-street to avoid the town.
When past the last house he heard a hammering, and lifting his bowed head he looked back for a moment.
Over the chimneys he could see the upper part of the gaol entrance, rich and glowing in the afternoon sun, and some moving figures were there.
They were carpenters lifting a post into a vertical position within the parapet.
He withdrew his eyes quickly, and hastened on. It was dark when he reached home, and half the village was out to meet him. "No tidings," Gabriel said, wearily.
And I'm afraid there's no hope. I've been with him more than two hours." "Do ye think he _really_ was out of his mind when he did it?" said Smallbury. "I can't honestly say that I do," Oak replied.
However, that we can talk of another time.
Has there been any change in mistress this afternoon?" "None at all." "Is she downstairs?" "No. And getting on so nicely as she was too.
She's but very little better now again than she was a-Christmas.
She keeps on asking if you be come, and if there's news, till one's wearied out wi' answering her. Shall I go and say you've come?" "No," said Oak.
There's a chance yet; but I couldn't stay in town any longer-after seeing him too.
So Laban-Laban is here, isn't he?" "Yes," said Tall. "What I've arranged is, that you shall ride to town the last thing to-night; leave here about nine, and wait a while there, getting home about twelve.
If nothing has been received by eleven to-night, they say there's no chance at all." "I do so hope his life will be spared," said Liddy.
If it is not, she'll go out of her mind too.
Poor thing; her sufferings have been dreadful; she deserves anybody's pity." "Is she altered much?" said Coggan. "If you haven't seen poor mistress since Christmas, you wouldn't know her," said Liddy.
Her eyes are so miserable that she's not the same woman.
Tis confinement during her Majesty's pleasure." "Hurrah!" said Coggan, with a swelling heart.
God's above the devil yet!" CHAPTER XXVI. BEAUTY IN LONELINESS-AFTER ALL Bathsheba revived with the spring.
One Friday evening in August she walked a little way along the road and entered the orchard for the first time since the sombre event of the preceding Christmas.
None of the old colour had as yet come to her cheek, and its absolute paleness was heightened by the jet black of her dress till it appeared preternatural.
When she reached the gate at the other end of the orchard, which opened nearly opposite to the churchyard, Bathsheba heard singing inside the church, and she knew that the singers were practising.
She opened the gate, crossed the road and entered the graveyard, the high sills of the church windows effectually screening her from the eyes of those gathered within.
Her stealthy walk was to the nook wherein Troy had worked at planting flowers upon Fanny Robin's grave, and she came to the marble tombstone. A motion of satisfaction enlivened her face as she read the complete inscription.
The door was closed, and the choir was learning a new hymn.
Bathsheba was stirred by emotions which latterly she had assumed to be altogether dead within her.
Something big came into her throat and an uprising to her eyes-and she thought that she would allow the imminent tears to flow if they wished.
They did flow and plenteously, and one fell upon the stone bench beside her.
Once that she had begun to cry for she hardly knew what, she could not leave off for crowding thoughts she knew too well.
She would have given anything in the world to be, as those children were, unconcerned at the meaning of their words, because too innocent to feel the necessity for any such expression.
All the impassioned scenes of her brief experience seemed to revive with added emotion at that moment, and those scenes which had been without emotion during enactment had emotion then.
Bathsheba did not raise her head for some time, and when she looked round her face was wet, and her eyes drowned and dim.
I am one of the bass singers, you know.
I have sung bass for several months." "Indeed: I wasn't aware of that.
I'll leave you, then." "Which I have loved long since, and lost awhile," sang the children. "Don't let me drive you away, mistress.
I think I won't go in to-night." "Oh no-you don't drive me away." Then they stood in a state of some embarrassment, Bathsheba trying to wipe her dreadfully drenched and inflamed face without his noticing her.
At length Oak said, "I've not seen you-I mean spoken to you-since ever so long, have I?
But he feared to bring distressing memories back, and interrupted himself with: "Were you going into church?" "No," she said.
I came to see the tombstone privately-to see if they had cut the inscription as I wished.
Mr. Oak, you needn't mind speaking to me, if you wish to, on the matter which is in both our minds at this moment." "And have they done it as you wished?" said Oak. "Yes.
Come and see it, if you have not already." So together they went and read the tomb.
Gabriel murmured when he saw the date.
It seems like yesterday to me." "And to me as if it were years ago-long years, and I had been dead between.
And now I am going home, Mr. Oak." Oak walked after her.
I wanted to name a small matter to you as soon as I could," he said, with hesitation.
Merrily about business, and I think I may just mention it now, if you'll allow me." "Oh yes, certainly." "It is that I may soon have to give up the management of your farm, Mrs. Troy.
The fact is, I am thinking of leaving England-not yet, you know-next spring." "Leaving England!" she said in surprise and genuine disappointment. "Why, Gabriel, what are you going to do that for?" "Well, I've thought it best," Oak stammered out.
I shall finish out my year there as manager for the trustees, but no more." "And what shall I do without you?
Oh, Gabriel, I don't think you ought to go away!
You've been with me so long-through bright times and dark times-such old friends as we are-that it seems unkind almost.
I had fancied that if you leased the other farm as master, you might still give a helping look across at mine.
And now going away!" "I would have willingly." "Yet now that I am more helpless than ever you go away." "Yes, that's the ill fortune o' it," said Gabriel, in a distressed tone.
And it is because of that very helplessness that I feel bound to go.
It broke upon her at length as a great pain that her last old disciple was about to forsake her and flee.
Whenever he wanted directions he sent a message, or note with neither heading nor signature, to which she was obliged to reply in the same off-hand style.
There he was, as usual, coming up the path behind her.
It was a formal notice by letter from him that he should not renew his engagement with her for the following Lady-day. Bathsheba actually sat and cried over this letter most bitterly.
Since Troy's death Oak had attended all sales and fairs for her, transacting her business at the same time with his own.
What should she do now!
Gabriel opened the door, and the moon shone upon his forehead. "Mr. Oak," said Bathsheba, faintly. "Yes; I am Mr. Oak," said Gabriel.
Will you sit down, please?
Here's a chair, and there's one, too.
I am sorry that my chairs all have wood seats, and are rather hard, but I-was thinking of getting some new ones.
It was very odd to these two persons, who knew each other passing well, that the mere circumstance of their meeting in a new place and in a new way should make them so awkward and constrained.
It grieved me very much, and I couldn't help coming." "Offended me!
As if you could do that, Bathsheba!" "Haven't I?" she asked, gladly.
I have arranged for Lower Farm, and shall have it in my own hands at Lady-day.
You know I've had a share in it for some time.
Still, that wouldn't prevent my attending to your business as before, hadn't it been that things have been said about us." "What?" said Bathsheba, in surprise.
Things said about you and me! What are they?" "I cannot tell you." "It would be wiser if you were to, I think.
You have played the part of mentor to me many times, and I don't see why you should fear to do it now." "It is nothing that you have done, this time.
The top and tail o't is this-that I am sniffing about here, and waiting for poor Boldwood's farm, with a thought of getting you some day." "Getting me!
What does that mean?" "Marrying o' ye, in plain British.
You asked me to tell, so you mustn't blame me." Bathsheba did not look quite so alarmed as if a cannon had been discharged by her ear, which was what Oak had expected.
I didn't know it was that you meant," she said, quietly.
Such a thing as that is too absurd-too soon-to think of, by far!" "Yes; of course, it is too absurd.
I don't desire any such thing; I should think that was visible enough by this time.
Surely, surely you be the last person in the world I think of marrying.
Too soon' was what I said.
But it doesn't matter a bit-not at all-but I only meant, 'too soon.
Indeed, I didn't, Mr. Oak, and you must believe me!" Gabriel looked her long in the face, but the firelight being faint there was not much to be seen.
My own dear-" "You ought not to have sent me that harsh letter this morning," she interrupted.
It shows you didn't care a bit about me, and were ready to desert me like all the rest of them!
Nobody knows the heat and fret I have been caused by it." "And was that all?" "All." "Oh, how glad I am I came!" she exclaimed, thankfully, as she rose from her seat.
I have thought so much more of you since I fancied you did not want even to see me again.
But I must be going now, or I shall be missed.
Why Gabriel," she said, with a slight laugh, as they went to the door, "it seems exactly as if I had come courting you-how dreadful!" "And quite right too," said Oak.
They spoke very little of their mutual feeling; pretty phrases and warm expressions being probably unnecessary between such tried friends.
This good-fellowship-_camaraderie_-usually occurring through similarity of pursuits, is unfortunately seldom superadded to love between the sexes, because men and women associate, not in their labours, but in their pleasures merely.
Well, then, mistress and I mean to get married to-morrow morning." "Heaven's high tower!
And yet I've thought of such a thing from time to time; true, I have.
But keeping it so close!
Well, there, 'tis no consarn of mine, and I wish ye joy o' her." "Thank you, Coggan.
And you be now going down to the clerk." "Yes; you may as well come with me." "I am afeard your labour in keeping it close will be throwed away," said Coggan, as they walked along.
Labe Tall's old woman will horn it all over parish in half an hour." "So she will, upon my life; I never thought of that," said Oak, pausing.
Yet I must tell him to-night, I suppose, for he's working so far off, and leaves early." "I'll tell ye how we could tackle her," said Coggan.
I'll knock and ask to speak to Laban outside the door, you standing in the background. Then he'll come out, and you can tell yer tale.
She'll never guess what I want en for; and I'll make up a few words about the farm-work, as a blind." This scheme was considered feasible; and Coggan advanced boldly, and rapped at Mrs. Tall's door.
Mrs. Tall herself opened it. "I wanted to have a word with Laban." "He's not at home, and won't be this side of eleven o'clock.
He've been forced to go over to Yalbury since shutting out work.
I shall do quite as well." "I hardly think you will.
That he must come without fail, and wear his best clothes." "The clothes will floor us as safe as houses!" said Coggan. "It can't be helped," said Oak.
Tell her." So Coggan delivered the message.
Mind, het or wet, blow or snow, he must come," added Jan. "'Tis very particular, indeed.
The fact is 'tis to witness her sign some law-work about taking shares wi' another farmer for a long span o' years.
About six, being quite positive that her watch had stopped during the night, she could wait no longer.
She went and tapped at Liddy's door, and after some labour awoke her. "But I thought it was I who had to call you?" said the bewildered Liddy.
And it isn't six yet." Indeed it is; how can you tell such a story, Liddy?
I know it must be ever so much past seven.
Come to my room as soon as you can; I want you to give my hair a good brushing." When Liddy came to Bathsheba's room her mistress was already waiting. Liddy could not understand this extraordinary promptness.
Whatever _is_ going on, ma'am?" she said. "Well, I'll tell you," said Bathsheba, with a mischievous smile in her bright eyes.
Farmer Oak is coming here to dine with me to-day!" "Farmer Oak-and nobody else?-you two alone?" "Yes." "But is it safe, ma'am?" said her companion, dubiously.
A woman's good name is such a perishable article that--" Bathsheba laughed with a flushed cheek, and whispered in Liddy's ear, although there was nobody present.
Then Liddy stared and exclaimed, "Souls alive, what news!
It makes my heart go quite bumpity-bump!" "It makes mine rather furious, too," said Bathsheba.
However, there's no getting out of it now." It was a damp disagreeable morning.
Nevertheless, at twenty minutes to ten o'clock, Oak came out of his house, and "Went up the hill side With that sort of stride A man puts out when walking in search of a bride," and knocked Bathsheba's door.
Ten minutes later two large umbrellas might have been seen moving from the same door, and through the mist along the road to the church.
The performers came forward, and marched up to the front. "Those bright boys, Mark Clark and Jan are at the bottom of all this," said Oak.
Come in, souls, and have something to eat and drink wi' me and my wife." "Not to-night," said Mr. Clark, with evident self-denial.
Thank ye all the same; but we'll call at a more seemly time.
However, we couldn't think of letting the day pass without a note of admiration of some sort.
If ye could send a drop of som'at down to Warren's, why so it is. Here's long life and happiness to neighbour Oak and his comely bride!" "Thank ye; thank ye all," said Gabriel.
A bit and a drop shall be sent to Warren's for ye at once.
Ephraim is joined to idols: let him alone.
But since 'tis as 'tis why, it might have been worse, and I feel my thanks accordingly." THE END
[Illustration] The Fables of Aesop SELECTED, TOLD ANEW AND THEIR HISTORY TRACED By JOSEPH JACOBS DONE INTO PICTURES BY RICHARD HEIGHWAY LONDON MACMILLAN & CO. & NEW YORK 1894 _All rights reserved_ To PROF. F.J.
I could at any rate enumerate at least seven hundred which have appeared in English in various books entitled _AEsop's Fables_.
L'Estrange's collection alone contains over five hundred.
In the struggle for existence among all these a certain number stand out as being the most effective and the most familiar.
I have attempted to bring most of these into the following pages. There is no fixed text even for the nucleus collection contained in this book.
AEsop himself is so shadowy a figure that we might almost be forgiven if we held, with regard to him, the heresy of Mistress Elizabeth Prig.
What we call his fables can in most cases be traced back to the fables of other people, notably of Phaedrus and Babrius.
It is usual to regard the Greek Prose Collections, passing under the name of AEsop, as having greater claims to the eponymous title; but modern research has shown that these are but medieval prosings of Babrius's verse.
I have placed in front of the present version of the "Fables," by kind permission of Mr. Nutt, the short abstract of my researches in which I there summed up the results of that volume.
Here, again, I have tried to put in shorter and more readable form the results of my researches in the volume to which I have already referred.
Both in Greece[2] and in India we find in the earliest literature such casual and frequent mention of Fables as seems to imply a body of Folk-Fables current among the people.
And in both countries special circumstances raised the Fable from folklore into literature.
In Greece, during the epoch of the Tyrants, when free speech was dangerous, the Fable was largely used for political purposes.
The inventor of this application or the most prominent user of it was one AEsop, a slave at Samos whose name has ever since been connected with the Fable.
This habit of regarding the Fable as a form of the Jest intensified the tendency to connect it with a well-known name as in the case of our Joe Miller.
This collection, running probably to some 200 Fables, after being interpolated and edited by the Alexandrine grammarians, was turned into neat Latin iambics by Phaedrus, a Greek freedman of Augustus in the early years of the Christian era.
But one fable does not make Fable. [2] Only about twenty fables, however, are known in Greece before Phaedrus, 30 A.D.
See my Caxton's _AEsop_ vol. i. pp. 26-29, for a complete enumeration. [3] For this statement and what follows a reference to the Pedigree of the Fables on p.
196 will be found useful. In India the great ethical reformer, Sakyamuni, the Buddha, initiated (or adopted from the Brahmins) the habit of using the Beast-Tale for moral purposes, or, in other words, transformed it into the Fable proper.
So, too, the Lamb of our _Wolf and Lamb_ was once Buddha; it was therefore easy for him-so the Buddhists thought-to remember and tell these Fables as incidents of his former careers.
About the end of the first century A.D. the Libyan Fables of "Kybises" became known to the Rabbinic school at Jabne, founded by R.
In the earlier part of the next century (c.
230 A.D.) this _corpus_ of the ancient fable, AEsopic and Libyan, amounting in all to some 300 members, was done into Greek verse with Latin accentuation (choliambics) by Valerius Babrius, tutor to the young son of Alexander Severus.
A selection of some eighty fables was turned into indifferent prose in the ninth century, probably at the Schools of Charles the Great.
This was attributed to a fictitious Romulus.
Another prose collection by Ademar of Chabannes was made before 1030, and still preserves some of the lines of the lost Fables of Phaedrus.
The Fables became especially popular among the Normans.
A number of them occur on the Bayeux Tapestry, and in the twelfth century England, the head of the Angevin empire, became the home of the Fable, all the important adaptations and versions of AEsop being made in this country.
One of these done into Latin verse by Walter the Englishman became the standard AEsop of medieval Christendom.
The same history applies in large measure to the Fables of Avian, which were done into prose, transferred back into Latin verse, and sent forth through Europe from England. Meanwhile Babrius had been suffering the same fate as Phaedrus.
His scazons were turned into poor Greek prose, and selections of them pass to this day as the original Fables of AEsop.
A still larger collection of the Greek prose versions got into Arabic, where it was enriched by some 60 fables from the Arabic Bidpai and other sources, but still passed under the name of AEsop.
731). We may conclude this history of AEsop with a similar account of the progress of AEsopic investigation.
Has it a future as a mode of literary expression?
Scarcely; its method is at once too simple and too roundabout.
Too roundabout; for the truths we have to tell we prefer to speak out directly and not by way of allegory.
And the truths the Fable has to teach are too simple to correspond to the facts of our complex civilisation; its rude _graffiti_ of human nature cannot reproduce the subtle gradations of modern life.
But as we all pass through in our lives the various stages of ancestral culture, there comes a time when these rough sketches of life have their appeal to us as they had for our forefathers.
The allegory gives us a pleasing and not too strenuous stimulation of the intellectual powers; the lesson is not too complicated for childlike minds.
Indeed, in their grotesque grace, in their quaint humour, in their trust in the simpler virtues, in their insight into the cruder vices, in their innocence of the fact of sex, AEsop's Fables are as little children.
Ho! ho!" quoth he, "that's for me," and soon rooted it out from beneath the straw. "What did it turn out to be but a Pearl that by some chance had been lost in the yard?
There's my supper," thought he, "if only I can find some excuse to seize it.
Now on his way home he had to cross a plank lying across a running brook.
As he crossed, he looked down and saw his own shadow reflected in the water beneath.
Thinking it was another dog with another piece of meat, he made up his mind to have that also.
They hunted and they hunted till at last they surprised a Stag, and soon took its life.
Then came the question how the spoil should be divided.
Quarter me this Stag," roared the Lion; so the other animals skinned it and cut it into four parts.
He tried to induce every one he met to remove the bone.
I would give anything," said he, "if you would take it out.
At last the Crane agreed to try, and told the Wolf to lie on his side and open his jaws as wide as he could.
The father in a rage got his axe, and pursuing the Serpent, cut off part of its tail.
So the Serpent in revenge began stinging several of the Farmer's cattle and caused him severe loss.
He was rough and ready, this cousin, but he loved his town friend and made him heartily welcome.
When you have been in town a week you will wonder how you could ever have stood a country life.
No sooner said than done: the two mice set off for the town and arrived at the Town Mouse's residence late at night.
You will want some refreshment after our long journey," said the polite Town Mouse, and took his friend into the grand dining-room.
There they found the remains of a fine feast, and soon the two mice were eating up jellies and cakes and all that was nice.
Suddenly they heard growling and barking.
What is that?" said the Country Mouse.
It is only the dogs of the house," answered the other.
Only!" said the Country Mouse. "I do not like that music at my dinner.
Just at that moment the door flew open, in came two huge mastiffs, and the two mice had to scamper down and run off.
Good-bye, Cousin," said the Country Mouse.
What! going so soon?" said the other.
That's for me, as I am a Fox," said Master Reynard, and he walked up to the foot of the tree.
Good-day, Mistress Crow," he cried.
How well you are looking to-day: how glossy your feathers; how bright your eye.
I feel sure your voice must surpass that of other birds, just as your figure does; let me hear but one song from you that I may greet you as the Queen of Birds.
The Crow lifted up her head and began to caw her best, but the moment she opened her mouth the piece of cheese fell to the ground, only to be snapped up by Master Fox.
That will do," said he.
That was all I wanted.
The animals, his subjects, came round him and drew nearer as he grew more and more helpless.
When they saw him on the point of death they thought to themselves: "Now is the time to pay off old grudges.
With the Farmer came his Lapdog, who danced about and licked his hand and frisked about as happy as could be.
The Farmer felt in his pocket, gave the Lapdog some dainty food, and sat down while he gave his orders to his servants.
The Lapdog jumped into his master's lap, and lay there blinking while the Farmer stroked his ears. The Ass, seeing this, broke loose from his halter and commenced prancing about in imitation of the Lapdog.
The Farmer could not hold his sides with laughter, so the Ass went up to him, and putting his feet upon the Farmer's shoulder attempted to climb into his lap.
Pardon, O King," cried the little Mouse: "forgive me this time, I shall never forget it: who knows but what I may be able to do you a turn some of these days?
The Lion was so tickled at the idea of the Mouse being able to help him, that he lifted up his paw and let him go.
Some time after the Lion was caught in a trap, and the hunters who desired to carry him alive to the King, tied him to a tree while they went in search of a waggon to carry him on.
Just then the little Mouse happened to pass by, and seeing the sad plight in which the Lion was, went up to him and soon gnawed away the ropes that bound the King of the Beasts.
Beware of that man," quoth the Swallow.
Why, what is he doing?" said the others.
That is hemp seed he is sowing; be careful to pick up every one of the seeds, or else you will repent it.
But this did not suit them, so they sent another petition to Jove, and said to him, "We want a real king; one that will really rule over us.
Now this made Jove angry, so he sent among them a big Stork that soon set to work gobbling them all up.
They felt sure that something horrible was going to happen.
They all gathered together in one place to see what terrible thing this could be.
They waited and they waited, but nothing came.
At last there was a still more violent earthquake, and a huge gap appeared in the side of the Mountains.
They all fell down upon their knees and waited.
As soon as they saw a single animal approach them, off they used to run.
One day they saw a troop of wild Horses stampeding about, and in quite a panic all the Hares scuttled off to a lake hard by, determined to drown themselves rather than live in such a continual state of fear.
But just as they got near the bank of the lake, a troop of Frogs, frightened in their turn by the approach of the Hares scuttled off, and jumped into the water.
Immediately he began to revile and attack his enemy. "Murderer and thief," he cried, "what do you here near honest folks' houses?
When he came closer he saw it was a Serpent to all appearance dead.
But he took it up and put it in his bosom to warm while he hurried home.
As soon as he got indoors he put the Serpent down on the hearth before the fire.
The children watched it and saw it slowly come to life again.
Then one of them stooped down to stroke it, but the Serpent raised its head and put out its fangs and was about to sting the child to death.
So the Woodman seized his axe, and with one stroke cut the Serpent in two.
Ah," said he, "No gratitude from the wicked." The Bald Man and the Fly There was once a Bald Man who sat down after work on a hot summer's day.
A Fly came up and kept buzzing about his bald pate, and stinging him from time to time.
So the Fox invited the Stork to dinner, and for a joke put nothing before her but some soup in a very shallow dish.
This the Fox could easily lap up, but the Stork could only wet the end of her long bill in it, and left the meal as hungry as when she began.
I am sorry," said the Fox, "the soup is not to your liking." "Pray do not apologise," said the Stork.
I hope you will return this visit, and come and dine with me soon.
Suddenly he observed a face glaring down on him and began to be very frightened; but looking more closely he found it was only a Mask such as actors use to put over their face.
He tied them all to his tail and strutted down towards the Peacocks.
It was as big as a mountain, with horns on its head, and a long tail, and it had hoofs divided in two." "Tush, child, tush," said the old Frog, "that was only Farmer White's Ox.
It isn't so big either; he may be a little bit taller than I, but I could easily make myself quite as broad; just you see.
So he blew himself out, and blew himself out, and blew himself out.
And then he said: "I'm sure the Ox is not as big as this.
But at this moment he burst. Self-conceit may lead to self-destruction. Androcles A slave named Androcles once escaped from his master and fled to the forest.
As he was wandering about there he came upon a Lion lying down moaning and groaning.
At first he turned to flee, but finding that the Lion did not pursue him, he turned back and went up to him.
As he came near, the Lion put out his paw, which was all swollen and bleeding, and Androcles found that a huge thorn had got into it, and was causing all the pain.
He pulled out the thorn and bound up the paw of the Lion, who was soon able to rise and lick the hand of Androcles like a dog.
Then the Lion took Androcles to his cave, and every day used to bring him meat from which to live.
But shortly afterwards both Androcles and the Lion were captured, and the slave was sentenced to be thrown to the Lion, after the latter had been kept without food for several days.
The Emperor and all his Court came to see the spectacle, and Androcles was led out into the middle of the arena.
Soon the Lion was let loose from his den, and rushed bounding and roaring towards his victim.
But as soon as he came near to Androcles he recognised his friend, and fawned upon him, and licked his hands like a friendly dog.
The Emperor, surprised at this, summoned Androcles to him, who told him the whole story.
When the two armies were collected together the Bat hesitated which to join.
The Birds that passed his perch said: "Come with us"; but he said: "I am a Beast.
Later on, some Beasts who were passing underneath him looked up and said: "Come with us"; but he said: "I am a Bird.
Luckily at the last moment peace was made, and no battle took place, so the Bat came to the Birds and wished to join in the rejoicings, but they all turned against him and he had to fly away.
He then went to the Beasts, but soon had to beat a retreat, or else they would have torn him to pieces.
Ah," said the Bat, "I see now, "He that is neither one thing nor the other has no friends." The Hart and the Hunter The Hart was once drinking from a pool and admiring the noble figure he made there.
Ah," said he, "where can you see such noble horns as these, with such antlers!
I wish I had legs more worthy to bear such a noble crown; it is a pity they are so slim and slight.
At that moment a Hunter approached and sent an arrow whistling after him.
The Trees were good-natured and gave him one of their branches.
What did the Man do but fix it into the axe head, and soon set to work cutting down tree after tree.
Ah, Cousin," said the Dog.
I knew how it would be; your irregular life will soon be the ruin of you.
On the way there the Wolf noticed that the hair on a certain part of the Dog's neck was very much worn away, so he asked him how that had come about. "Oh, it is nothing," said the Dog.
That is only the place where the collar is put on at night to keep me chained up; it chafes a bit, but one soon gets used to it." "Is that all?" said the Wolf.
So they held a meeting, and after a long discussion, decided to strike work till the Belly consented to take its proper share of the work.
So for a day or two, the Hands refused to take the food, the Mouth refused to receive it, and the Teeth had no work to do.
Soon after the Hunters came up and asked if any one had seen the Hart.
The stable boys, who had been resting after their dinner, looked round, but could see nothing, and the Hunters went away. Shortly afterwards the master came in, and looking round, saw that something unusual had taken place.
He pointed to the truss of hay and said: "What are those two curious things sticking out of the hay?
And when the stable boys came to look they discovered the Hart, and soon made an end of him.
Just the thing to quench my thirst," quoth he.
Drawing back a few paces, he took a run and a jump, and just missed the bunch.
Turning round again with a One, Two, Three, he jumped up, but with no greater success.
The Horse agreed to the conditions, and the Hunter soon saddled and bridled him.
Then with the aid of the Hunter the Horse soon overcame the Stag, and said to the Hunter: "Now, get off, and remove those things from my mouth and back." "Not so fast, friend," said the Hunter.
The Man contended that he and his fellows were stronger than lions by reason of their greater intelligence.
Come now with me," he cried, "and I will soon prove that I am right.
I may not be so grand, but I think I am safer." "Safe!" sneered the Tree.
Who shall pluck me up by the roots or bow my head to the ground?
I have a whole bag of tricks," he said, "which contains a hundred ways of escaping my enemies." "I have only one," said the Cat; "but I can generally manage with that.
Just at that moment they heard the cry of a pack of hounds coming towards them, and the Cat immediately scampered up a tree and hid herself in the boughs.
This is my plan," said the Cat.
What are you going to do?
But one day it found the skin of a sheep that had been flayed and thrown aside, so it put it on over its own pelt and strolled down among the sheep.
But soon the Ox, returning from its afternoon work, came up to the Manger and wanted to eat some of the straw.
The Dog in a rage, being awakened from its slumber, stood up and barked at the Ox, and whenever it came near attempted to bite it.
It happened that a Man had often prayed to a wooden idol he had received from his father, but his luck never seemed to change.
He prayed and he prayed, but still he remained as unlucky as ever.
One day in the greatest rage he went to the Wooden God, and with one blow swept it down from its pedestal.
The idol broke in two, and what did he see?
So he cast his net into the river and soon drew it forth filled with fish.
Then he took his bagpipes again, and, as he played, the fish leapt up in the net.
It was rather lonely for him all day, so he thought upon a plan by which he could get a little company and some excitement.
He rushed down towards the village calling out "Wolf, Wolf," and the villagers came out to meet him, and some of them stopped with him for a considerable time.
This pleased the boy so much that a few days afterwards he tried the same trick, and again the villagers came to his help.
But shortly after this a Wolf actually did come out from the forest, and began to worry the sheep, and the boy of course cried out "Wolf, Wolf," still louder than before.
But this time the villagers, who had been fooled twice before, thought the boy was again deceiving them, and nobody stirred to come to his help.
He expressed his desire to see his Mother, and to speak with her before he was led to execution, and of course this was granted.
When his Mother came to him he said: "I want to whisper to you," and when she brought her ear near him, he nearly bit it off.
All the bystanders were horrified, and asked him what he could mean by such brutal and inhuman conduct.
It is to punish her," he said.
When I was young I began with stealing little things, and brought them home to Mother.
Instead of rebuking and punishing me, she laughed and said: "It will not be noticed.
Now the Man's hair was turning grey, which the young Wife did not like, as it made him look too old for her husband.
So every night she used to comb his hair and pick out the white ones.
But the elder Wife saw her husband growing grey with great pleasure, for she did not like to be mistaken for his mother.
So every morning she used to arrange his hair and pick out as many of the black ones as she could.
The consequence was the Man soon found himself entirely bald. Yield to all and you will soon have nothing to yield. The Nurse and the Wolf "Be quiet now," said an old Nurse to a child sitting on her lap.
If you make that noise again I will throw you to the Wolf." Now it chanced that a Wolf was passing close under the window as this was said.
So he crouched down by the side of the house and waited.
I am in good luck to-day," thought he.
It is sure to cry soon, and a daintier morsel I haven't had for many a long day.
So he waited, and he waited, and he waited, till at last the child began to cry, and the Wolf came forward before the window, and looked up to the Nurse, wagging his tail.
But all the Nurse did was to shut down the window and call for help, and the dogs of the house came rushing out.
The Eagle agreed and seizing the Tortoise by the shell with her talons soared aloft.
On their way they met a Crow, who said to the Eagle: "Tortoise is good eating.
The shell is too hard," said the Eagle in reply.
Child," said the mother, "you are walking very ungracefully.
He put it on and went towards his native village.
The Bear, coming up to him, put his muzzle close to his ear, and sniffed and sniffed.
But at last with a growl he shook his head and slouched off, for bears will not touch dead meat.
At last, however, they fell a-quarrelling among themselves, and each went off to pasture alone in a separate corner of the field.
Pray, let me go, master," said the Fish.
I am much too small for your eating just now.
If you put me back into the river I shall soon grow, then you can make a fine meal off me." "Nay, nay, my little Fish," said the Fisher, "I have you now.
I may not catch you hereafter." A little thing in hand is worth more than a great thing in prospect. Avaricious and Envious Two neighbours came before Jupiter and prayed him to grant their hearts' desire.
Now the one was full of avarice, and the other eaten up with envy.
So to punish them both, Jupiter granted that each might have whatever he wished for himself, but only on condition that his neighbour had twice as much.
The Avaricious man prayed to have a room full of gold.
No sooner said than done; but all his joy was turned to grief when he found that his neighbour had two rooms full of the precious metal.
Then came the turn of the Envious man, who could not bear to think that his neighbour had any joy at all.
He tried, and he tried, but at last had to give up in despair.
Then a thought came to him, and he took a pebble and dropped it into the Pitcher.
Then he took another pebble and dropped it into the Pitcher.
Then he took another pebble and dropped that into the Pitcher.
As he was roaming about, a Satyr came up to him, and finding that he had lost his way, promised to give him a lodging for the night, and guide him out of the forest in the morning.
But when the Man raised his spoon to his mouth he began blowing upon it.
And what do you do that for?" said the Satyr. "The porridge is too hot, and my breath will cool it." "Out you go," said the Satyr.
When he took it up it was as heavy as lead and he was going to throw it away, because he thought a trick had been played upon him.
But he took it home on second thoughts, and soon found to his delight that it was an egg of pure gold.
Every morning the same thing occurred, and he soon became rich by selling his eggs.
So pleased was he with it that the next night he set a trap for it and captured it.
Now that I have caught thee," he cried, "thou shalt always sing to me." "We Nightingales never sing in a cage." said the bird. "Then I'll eat thee." said the Labourer.
I have always heard say that a nightingale on toast is dainty morsel." "Nay, kill me not," said the Nightingale; "but let me free, and I'll tell thee three things far better worth than my poor body.
The Labourer let him loose, and he flew up to a branch of a tree and said: "Never believe a captive's promise; that's one thing.
Then again: Keep what you have.
And third piece of advice is: Sorrow not over what is lost forever.
Then the song-bird flew away. The Fox, the Cock, and the Dog One moonlight night a Fox was prowling about a farmer's hen-coop, and saw a Cock roosting high up beyond his reach.
Good news, good news!" he cried. "Why, what is that?" said the Cock. "King Lion has declared a universal truce.
No beast may hurt a bird henceforth, but all shall dwell together in brotherly friendship." "Why, that is good news," said the Cock; "and there I see some one coming, with whom we can share the good tidings.
And so saying he craned his neck forward and looked afar off. "What is it you see?" said the Fox. "It is only my master's Dog that is coming towards us.
What, going so soon?" he continued, as the Fox began to turn away as soon as he had heard the news.
Suddenly they saw a traveller coming down the road, and the Sun said: "I see a way to decide our dispute.
Whichever of us can cause that traveller to take off his cloak shall be regarded as the stronger.
So the Sun retired behind a cloud, and the Wind began to blow as hard as it could upon the traveller.
But the harder he blew the more closely did the traveller wrap his cloak round him, till at last the Wind had to give up in despair.
O Hercules, help me in this my hour of distress," quoth he.
But Hercules appeared to him, and said: "Tut, man, don't sprawl there.
A robber, who had noticed this, went and dug up the gold and decamped with it.
When the Miser next came to gloat over his treasures, he found nothing but the empty hole.
He tore his hair, and raised such an outcry that all the neighbours came around him, and he told them how he used to come and visit his gold.
As they were walking along by its side a countryman passed them and said: "You fools, what is a Donkey for but to ride upon?" So the Man put the Boy on the Donkey and they went on their way.
But soon they passed a group of men, one of whom said: "See that lazy youngster, he lets his father walk while he rides." So the Man ordered his Boy to get off, and got on himself.
By this time they had come to the town, and the passers-by began to jeer and point at them.
The Man stopped and asked what they were scoffing at.
The men said: "Aren't you ashamed of yourself for overloading that poor donkey of yours and your hulking son?" The Man and Boy got off and tried to think what to do.
They thought and they thought, till at last they cut down a pole, tied the donkey's feet to it, and raised the pole and the donkey to their shoulders.
They went along amid the laughter of all who met them till they came to Market Bridge, when the Donkey, getting one of his feet loose, kicked out and caused the Boy to drop his end of the pole.
A number of Mosquitoes seeing its plight settled upon it and enjoyed a good meal undisturbed by its tail.
At first he was ashamed to show himself among his fellow foxes.
But at last he determined to put a bolder face upon his misfortune, and summoned all the foxes to a general meeting to consider a proposal which he had to place before them.
When they had assembled together the Fox proposed that they should all do away with their tails.
He pointed out how inconvenient a tail was when they were pursued by their enemies, the dogs; how much it was in the way when they desired to sit down and hold a friendly conversation with one another.
He failed to see any advantage in carrying about such a useless encumbrance.
So to avoid any danger she always used to feed on a high cliff near the sea, with her sound eye looking towards the land.
By this means she could see whenever the hunters approached her on land, and often escaped by this means.
Some said this, and some said that; but at last a young mouse got up and said he had a proposal to make, which he thought would meet the case.
You will all agree," said he, "that our chief danger consists in the sly and treacherous manner in which the enemy approaches us.
Now, if we could receive some signal of her approach, we could easily escape from her.
I venture, therefore, to propose that a small bell be procured, and attached by a ribbon round the neck of the Cat.
The mice looked at one another and nobody spoke.
Then the old mouse said: "It is easy to propose impossible remedies." The Hare and the Tortoise The Hare was once boasting of his speed before the other animals.
Shall we race?" So a course was fixed and a start was made.
The Hare darted almost out of sight at once, but soon stopped and, to show his contempt for the Tortoise, lay down to have a nap.
The Tortoise plodded on and plodded on, and when the Hare awoke from his nap, he saw the Tortoise just near the winning-post and could not run up in time to save the race.
Then said the Tortoise: "Plodding wins the race." The Old Man and Death An old labourer, bent double with age and toil, was gathering sticks in a forest.
But one day she heard the hounds approaching and hoped to escape them by the aid of her many Friends.
So, she went to the horse, and asked him to carry her away from the hounds on his back.
But he declined, stating that he had important work to do for his master.
He felt sure," he said, "that all her other friends would come to her assistance.
She then applied to the bull, and hoped that he would repel the hounds with his horns.
The bull replied: "I am very sorry, but I have an appointment with a lady; but I feel sure that our friend the goat will do what you want.
The goat, however, feared that his back might do her some harm if he took her upon it.
The ram, he felt sure, was the proper friend to apply to.
So she went to the ram and told him the case.
The ram replied: "Another time, my dear friend.
I do not like to interfere on the present occasion, as hounds have been known to eat sheep as well as hares.
The old people did not know what to say.
They did not like to give their daughter to the Lion, yet they did not wish to enrage the King of Beasts.
At last the father said: "We feel highly honoured by your Majesty's proposal, but you see our daughter is a tender young thing, and we fear that in the vehemence of your affection you might possibly do her some injury.
Might I venture to suggest that your Majesty should have your claws removed, and your teeth extracted, then we would gladly consider your proposal again.
He ordered his servants to bring in a faggot of sticks, and said to his eldest son: "Break it.
The son strained and strained, but with all his efforts was unable to break the Bundle.
The other sons also tried, but none of them was successful.
Untie the faggots," said the father, "and each of you take a stick.
When they had done so, he called out to them: "Now, break," and each stick was easily broken.
So the Goat came to the Lion's cave, and stopped there listening for a long time.
Then a Sheep went in, and before she came out a Calf came up to receive the last wishes of the Lord of the Beasts.
But soon the Lion seemed to recover, and came to the mouth of his cave, and saw the Fox, who had been waiting outside for some time.
The Lion, on the advice of the Fox, sent a message to the Ass, proposing to make an alliance between their two families.
The Ass came to the place of meeting, overjoyed at the prospect of a royal alliance.
But when he came there the Lion simply pounced on the Ass, and said to the Fox: "Here is our dinner for to-day.
Watch you here while I go and have a nap.
Woe betide you if you touch my prey.
The Lion went away and the Fox waited; but finding that his master did not return, ventured to take out the brains of the Ass and ate them up.
Slowly it fluttered down to the earth, with its life-blood pouring out of it.
Looking down upon the Arrow with which it had been pierced, it found that the shaft of the Arrow had been feathered with one of its own plumes.
Alas!" it cried, as it died, "We often give our enemies the means for our own destruction." The Cat-Maiden The gods were once disputing whether it was possible for a living being to change its nature.
Jupiter said "Yes," but Venus said "No." So, to try the question, Jupiter turned a Cat into a Maiden, and gave her to a young man for a wife.
The wedding was duly performed and the young couple sat down to the wedding-feast.
See," said Jupiter, to Venus, "how becomingly she behaves.
Who could tell that yesterday she was but a Cat?
Surely her nature is changed?" "Wait a minute," replied Venus, and let loose a mouse into the room.
No sooner did the bride see this than she jumped up from her seat and tried to pounce upon the mouse.
Ah, you see," said Venus, "Nature will out." The Milkmaid and Her Pail Patty the Milkmaid was going to market carrying her milk in a Pail on her head.
As she went along she began calculating what she would do with the money she would get for the milk.
I'll buy some fowls from Farmer Brown," said she, "and they will lay eggs each morning, which I will sell to the parson's wife.
I shall just look at her and toss my head like this.
As she spoke she tossed her head back, the Pail fell off it, and all the milk was spilt.
I wish I were you," sighed the Ass; "nothing to do and well fed, and all that fine harness upon you.
Next day, however, there was a great battle, and the Horse was wounded to death in the final charge of the day.
His friend, the Ass, happened to pass by shortly afterwards and found him on the point of death.
I was wrong," said the Ass: "Better humble security than gilded danger." The Trumpeter Taken Prisoner A Trumpeter during a battle ventured too near the enemy and was captured by them.
They were about to proceed to put him to death when he begged them to hear his plea for mercy.
He finished off by squeaking so like a pig that the spectators thought that he had a porker concealed about him.
But a Countryman who stood by said: "Call that a pig's squeak!
You give me till tomorrow and I will show you what it's like.
The audience laughed, but next day, sure enough, the Countryman appeared on the stage, and putting his head down squealed so hideously that the spectators hissed and threw stones at him to make him stop.
One of this sort once found a Wine-jar lying in the road, and eagerly went up to it hoping to find it full.
But when she took it up she found that all the wine had been drunk out of it.
Still she took a long sniff at the mouth of the Jar.
Ah," she cried, "What memories cling 'round the instruments of our pleasure." The Fox and the Goat By an unlucky chance a Fox fell into a deep well from which he could not get out.
A Goat passed by shortly afterwards, and asked the Fox what he was doing down there.
Oh, have you not heard?" said the Fox; "there is going to be a great drought, so I jumped down here in order to be sure to have water by me.
Why don't you come down too?
The Goat thought well of this advice, and jumped down into the well.
But the Fox immediately jumped on her back, and by putting his foot on her long horns managed to jump up to the edge of the well.
Good-bye, friend," said the Fox, "remember next time, "Never trust the advice of a man in difficulties." And this is the end of AEsop's Fables.
THE 1990 UNITED STATES CENSUS 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Alabama Total population......................................
2,104,425 AGE Under 5 years............................................
283,295 5 to 17 years............................................
775,493 18 to 20 years...........................................
205,557 21 to 24 years...........................................
237,778 25 to 44 years...........................................
1,232,067 45 to 54 years...........................................
419,421 55 to 59 years...........................................
183,677 60 to 64 years...........................................
180,310 65 to 74 years...........................................
301,218 75 to 84 years...........................................
173,264 85 years and over........................................
1,058,788 Percent of total population..............................
26.2 65 years and over...........................................
522,989 Percent of total population..............................
12.9 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
858,327 Percent of total households........................
57.0 Other family, male householder........................
44,288 Other family, female householder......................
402,955 Percent of total households........................
358,078 Householder 65 years and over......................
154,191 Persons living in households.............................
2.62 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
51,583 Other persons in group quarters.......................
40,819 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
1,020,705 Percent of total population...........................
25.3 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
16,506 Percent of total population...........................
0.4 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
21,797 Percent of total population...........................
5,782 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
24,629 Percent of total population...........................
0.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Alabama Total housing units...................................
1,670,379 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
163,589 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
35,609 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
1.8 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
9.4 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.70 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.44 Units with over 1 person per room........................
52,927 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
31,943 2 to 4 units.............................................
96,104 5 to 9 units.............................................
66,413 10 or more units.........................................
102,462 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
239,530 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
53,700 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
229 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
334,513 Percent of occupied units..........................
22.2 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
5,288 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.4 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
6,077 Percent of occupied units..........................
1,649 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
7,373 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Alaska Total population......................................
260,176 AGE Under 5 years............................................
54,897 5 to 17 years............................................
117,447 18 to 20 years...........................................
22,934 21 to 24 years...........................................
32,913 25 to 44 years...........................................
216,062 45 to 54 years...........................................
53,929 55 to 59 years...........................................
16,595 60 to 64 years...........................................
12,897 65 to 74 years...........................................
15,548 75 to 84 years...........................................
5,570 85 years and over........................................
172,344 Percent of total population..............................
31.3 65 years and over...........................................
22,369 Percent of total population..............................
4.1 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
106,079 Percent of total households........................
56.2 Other family, male householder........................
8,529 Other family, female householder......................
56,078 Percent of total households........................
41,826 Householder 65 years and over......................
5,737 Persons living in households.............................
2.80 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
4,574 Other persons in group quarters.......................
16,127 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
22,451 Percent of total population...........................
4.1 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
85,698 Percent of total population...........................
15.6 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
19,728 Percent of total population...........................
6,674 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
17,803 Percent of total population...........................
3.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Alaska Total housing units...................................
232,608 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
43,693 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
16,991 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
4.5 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
8.5 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.97 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.58 Units with over 1 person per room........................
16,201 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
15,963 2 to 4 units.............................................
30,358 5 to 9 units.............................................
16,171 10 or more units.........................................
21,229 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
24,702 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
94,400 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
503 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
6,927 Percent of occupied units..........................
3.7 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
22,305 Percent of occupied units..........................
11.8 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
4,674 Percent of occupied units..........................
1,794 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
4,671 Percent of occupied units..........................
2.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Arizona Total population......................................
1,854,537 AGE Under 5 years............................................
292,859 5 to 17 years............................................
688,260 18 to 20 years...........................................
172,063 21 to 24 years...........................................
220,617 25 to 44 years...........................................
1,163,607 45 to 54 years...........................................
349,516 55 to 59 years...........................................
146,658 60 to 64 years...........................................
152,874 65 to 74 years...........................................
290,044 75 to 84 years...........................................
151,013 85 years and over........................................
981,119 Percent of total population..............................
26.8 65 years and over...........................................
478,774 Percent of total population..............................
13.1 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
747,806 Percent of total households........................
54.6 Other family, male householder........................
49,980 Other family, female householder......................
428,737 Percent of total households........................
337,681 Householder 65 years and over......................
119,287 Persons living in households.............................
41,508 Other persons in group quarters.......................
39,175 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
110,524 Percent of total population...........................
3.0 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
203,527 Percent of total population...........................
5.6 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
55,206 Percent of total population...........................
332,785 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
688,338 Percent of total population...........................
18.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Arizona Total housing units...................................
1,659,430 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
290,587 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
96,104 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
3.7 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
15.3 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.71 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.46 Units with over 1 person per room........................
101,636 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
109,989 2 to 4 units.............................................
88,371 5 to 9 units.............................................
61,111 10 or more units.........................................
257,208 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
274,867 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
80,100 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
370 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
37,140 Percent of occupied units..........................
2.7 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
49,894 Percent of occupied units..........................
3.6 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
15,934 Percent of occupied units..........................
88,526 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
184,942 Percent of occupied units..........................
13.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Arkansas Total population......................................
1,217,649 AGE Under 5 years............................................
164,667 5 to 17 years............................................
456,464 18 to 20 years...........................................
109,879 21 to 24 years...........................................
127,177 25 to 44 years...........................................
685,748 45 to 54 years...........................................
243,337 55 to 59 years...........................................
105,811 60 to 64 years...........................................
107,584 65 to 74 years...........................................
195,961 75 to 84 years...........................................
118,881 85 years and over........................................
621,131 Percent of total population..............................
26.4 65 years and over...........................................
350,058 Percent of total population..............................
14.9 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
527,358 Percent of total households........................
59.2 Other family, male householder........................
25,273 Other family, female householder......................
239,624 Percent of total households........................
213,778 Householder 65 years and over......................
103,386 Persons living in households.............................
2.57 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
34,223 Other persons in group quarters.......................
24,109 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
373,912 Percent of total population...........................
15.9 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
12,773 Percent of total population...........................
0.5 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
12,530 Percent of total population...........................
6,766 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
19,876 Percent of total population...........................
0.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Arkansas Total housing units...................................
1,000,667 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
109,488 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
18,224 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
2.4 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
10.4 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.61 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.48 Units with over 1 person per room........................
33,197 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
18,175 2 to 4 units.............................................
60,820 5 to 9 units.............................................
27,024 10 or more units.........................................
44,454 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
141,443 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
46,300 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
230 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
121,338 Percent of occupied units..........................
13.6 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
4,539 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.5 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
3,228 Percent of occupied units..........................
1,787 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
5,350 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** California Total population......................................
14,862,394 AGE Under 5 years............................................
2,397,715 5 to 17 years............................................
5,353,010 18 to 20 years...........................................
1,411,200 21 to 24 years...........................................
2,001,057 25 to 44 years...........................................
10,325,692 45 to 54 years...........................................
2,902,569 55 to 59 years...........................................
1,133,907 60 to 64 years...........................................
1,099,319 65 to 74 years...........................................
1,857,221 75 to 84 years...........................................
979,224 85 years and over........................................
7,750,725 Percent of total population..............................
26.0 65 years and over...........................................
3,135,552 Percent of total population..............................
10.5 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
5,469,522 Percent of total households........................
52.7 Other family, male householder........................
477,692 Other family, female householder......................
3,241,812 Percent of total households........................
2,429,867 Householder 65 years and over......................
818,520 Persons living in households.............................
2.79 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
376,374 Other persons in group quarters.......................
375,486 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
2,208,801 Percent of total population...........................
7.4 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
242,164 Percent of total population...........................
0.8 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
2,845,659 Percent of total population...........................
3,939,070 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
7,687,938 Percent of total population...........................
25.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** California Total housing units...................................
11,182,882 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
801,676 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
195,385 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
2.0 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
5.9 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.84 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.74 Units with over 1 person per room........................
1,275,377 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
811,684 2 to 4 units.............................................
966,355 5 to 9 units.............................................
705,704 10 or more units.........................................
1,899,934 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
679,940 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
195,500 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
561 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
751,563 Percent of occupied units..........................
7.2 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
78,848 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.8 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
777,913 Percent of occupied units..........................
901,247 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
1,836,989 Percent of occupied units..........................
17.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Colorado Total population......................................
1,663,099 AGE Under 5 years............................................
252,893 5 to 17 years............................................
608,373 18 to 20 years...........................................
148,197 21 to 24 years...........................................
187,328 25 to 44 years...........................................
1,179,936 45 to 54 years...........................................
336,671 55 to 59 years...........................................
130,193 60 to 64 years...........................................
121,360 65 to 74 years...........................................
194,527 75 to 84 years...........................................
101,963 85 years and over........................................
861,266 Percent of total population..............................
26.1 65 years and over...........................................
329,443 Percent of total population..............................
10.0 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
690,292 Percent of total households........................
53.8 Other family, male householder........................
39,353 Other family, female householder......................
428,275 Percent of total households........................
340,962 Householder 65 years and over......................
95,849 Persons living in households.............................
2.51 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
35,976 Other persons in group quarters.......................
43,496 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
133,146 Percent of total population...........................
4.0 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
27,776 Percent of total population...........................
59,862 Percent of total population...........................
168,136 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
424,302 Percent of total population...........................
12.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Colorado Total housing units...................................
1,477,349 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
194,860 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
63,814 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
3.3 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
11.4 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.66 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.25 Units with over 1 person per room........................
38,139 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
87,437 2 to 4 units.............................................
89,997 5 to 9 units.............................................
63,855 10 or more units.........................................
249,360 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
102,269 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
82,700 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
362 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
49,255 Percent of occupied units..........................
3.8 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
8,959 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.7 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
17,099 Percent of occupied units..........................
52,193 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
130,704 Percent of occupied units..........................
10.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Connecticut Total population......................................
1,694,243 AGE Under 5 years............................................
228,356 5 to 17 years............................................
521,225 18 to 20 years...........................................
145,274 21 to 24 years...........................................
200,159 25 to 44 years...........................................
1,094,878 45 to 54 years...........................................
356,042 55 to 59 years...........................................
147,022 60 to 64 years...........................................
148,253 65 to 74 years...........................................
256,237 75 to 84 years...........................................
142,677 85 years and over........................................
749,581 Percent of total population..............................
22.8 65 years and over...........................................
445,907 Percent of total population..............................
13.6 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
684,660 Percent of total households........................
55.6 Other family, male householder........................
39,448 Other family, female householder......................
365,986 Percent of total households........................
297,161 Householder 65 years and over......................
121,918 Persons living in households.............................
2.59 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
48,424 Other persons in group quarters.......................
52,743 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
274,269 Percent of total population...........................
8.3 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
6,654 Percent of total population...........................
0.2 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
50,698 Percent of total population...........................
96,142 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
213,116 Percent of total population...........................
6.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Connecticut Total housing units...................................
1,320,850 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
90,371 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
20,428 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
1.9 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
6.9 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.74 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.30 Units with over 1 person per room........................
28,237 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
66,681 2 to 4 units.............................................
243,600 5 to 9 units.............................................
75,497 10 or more units.........................................
155,492 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
30,954 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
177,800 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
510 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
90,882 Percent of occupied units..........................
7.4 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
2,383 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.2 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
13,558 Percent of occupied units..........................
26,844 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
61,580 Percent of occupied units..........................
5.0 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Delaware Total population......................................
343,200 AGE Under 5 years............................................
48,824 5 to 17 years............................................
114,517 18 to 20 years...........................................
33,586 21 to 24 years...........................................
42,647 25 to 44 years...........................................
217,981 45 to 54 years...........................................
68,114 55 to 59 years...........................................
29,861 60 to 64 years...........................................
29,903 65 to 74 years...........................................
49,596 75 to 84 years...........................................
23,997 85 years and over........................................
163,341 Percent of total population..............................
24.5 65 years and over...........................................
80,735 Percent of total population..............................
12.1 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
137,983 Percent of total households........................
55.8 Other family, male householder........................
8,565 Other family, female householder......................
71,630 Percent of total households........................
57,451 Householder 65 years and over......................
21,566 Persons living in households.............................
2.61 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
8,662 Other persons in group quarters.......................
11,409 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
112,460 Percent of total population...........................
16.9 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
2,019 Percent of total population...........................
0.3 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
9,057 Percent of total population...........................
7,538 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
15,820 Percent of total population...........................
2.4 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Delaware Total housing units...................................
289,919 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
42,422 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
19,328 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
2.3 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
7.8 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.38 Units with over 1 person per room........................
5,624 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
40,161 2 to 4 units.............................................
13,919 5 to 9 units.............................................
10,148 10 or more units.........................................
32,612 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
37,066 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
100,100 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
425 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
37,229 Percent of occupied units..........................
15.0 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
773 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.3 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
2,538 Percent of occupied units..........................
1,989 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
4,497 Percent of occupied units..........................
1.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** District of Columbia Total population......................................
323,930 AGE Under 5 years............................................
37,351 5 to 17 years............................................
79,741 18 to 20 years...........................................
35,291 21 to 24 years...........................................
47,267 25 to 44 years...........................................
216,472 45 to 54 years...........................................
62,031 55 to 59 years...........................................
25,441 60 to 64 years...........................................
25,459 65 to 74 years...........................................
44,553 75 to 84 years...........................................
25,447 85 years and over........................................
117,092 Percent of total population..............................
19.3 65 years and over...........................................
77,847 Percent of total population..............................
12.8 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
63,110 Percent of total households........................
25.3 Other family, male householder........................
10,402 Other family, female householder......................
127,547 Percent of total households........................
103,626 Householder 65 years and over......................
27,237 Persons living in households.............................
2.26 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
14,070 Other persons in group quarters.......................
27,647 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
399,604 Percent of total population...........................
65.8 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
1,466 Percent of total population...........................
11,214 Percent of total population...........................
14,949 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
32,710 Percent of total population...........................
5.4 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** District of Columbia Total housing units...................................
278,489 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
28,855 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
1,575 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
3.2 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
7.9 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.50 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.12 Units with over 1 person per room........................
20,587 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
71,321 2 to 4 units.............................................
30,699 5 to 9 units.............................................
20,783 10 or more units.........................................
118,237 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
2,847 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
123,900 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
441 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
152,356 Percent of occupied units..........................
61.0 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
612 Percent of occupied units..........................
4,070 Percent of occupied units..........................
4,301 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
10,455 Percent of occupied units..........................
4.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Florida Total population......................................
6,676,207 AGE Under 5 years............................................
849,596 5 to 17 years............................................
2,016,641 18 to 20 years...........................................
522,755 21 to 24 years...........................................
692,902 25 to 44 years...........................................
3,927,400 45 to 54 years...........................................
1,291,611 55 to 59 years...........................................
588,552 60 to 64 years...........................................
679,038 65 to 74 years...........................................
1,369,652 75 to 84 years...........................................
789,669 85 years and over........................................
2,866,237 Percent of total population..............................
22.2 65 years and over...........................................
2,369,431 Percent of total population..............................
18.3 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
2,791,734 Percent of total households........................
54.4 Other family, male householder........................
171,535 Other family, female householder......................
1,623,044 Percent of total households........................
1,309,954 Householder 65 years and over......................
591,468 Persons living in households.............................
2.46 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
173,637 Other persons in group quarters.......................
133,824 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
1,759,534 Percent of total population...........................
13.6 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
36,335 Percent of total population...........................
154,302 Percent of total population...........................
238,470 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
1,574,143 Percent of total population...........................
12.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Florida Total housing units...................................
6,100,262 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
965,393 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
417,670 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
3.5 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
12.4 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.49 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.39 Units with over 1 person per room........................
297,557 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
335,798 2 to 4 units.............................................
462,438 5 to 9 units.............................................
320,580 10 or more units.........................................
1,127,629 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
821,048 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
77,100 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
402 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
553,561 Percent of occupied units..........................
10.8 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
13,088 Percent of occupied units..........................
42,895 Percent of occupied units..........................
67,832 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
510,849 Percent of occupied units..........................
9.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Georgia Total population......................................
3,333,713 AGE Under 5 years............................................
495,535 5 to 17 years............................................
1,231,768 18 to 20 years...........................................
325,159 21 to 24 years...........................................
413,425 25 to 44 years...........................................
2,190,594 45 to 54 years...........................................
668,951 55 to 59 years...........................................
259,735 60 to 64 years...........................................
238,779 65 to 74 years...........................................
388,051 75 to 84 years...........................................
208,975 85 years and over........................................
1,727,303 Percent of total population..............................
26.7 65 years and over...........................................
654,270 Percent of total population..............................
10.1 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
1,306,756 Percent of total households........................
55.2 Other family, male householder........................
76,675 Other family, female householder......................
653,543 Percent of total households........................
537,702 Householder 65 years and over......................
185,027 Persons living in households.............................
2.66 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
87,266 Other persons in group quarters.......................
86,367 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
1,746,565 Percent of total population...........................
27.0 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
13,348 Percent of total population...........................
75,781 Percent of total population...........................
42,374 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
108,922 Percent of total population...........................
1.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Georgia Total housing units...................................
2,638,418 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
271,803 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
33,637 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
2.5 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
12.2 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.76 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.49 Units with over 1 person per room........................
95,828 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
73,412 2 to 4 units.............................................
198,036 5 to 9 units.............................................
167,552 10 or more units.........................................
232,683 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
327,888 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
71,300 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
344 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
574,113 Percent of occupied units..........................
24.3 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
4,812 Percent of occupied units..........................
20,279 Percent of occupied units..........................
10,495 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
29,873 Percent of occupied units..........................
1.3 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Hawaii Total population......................................
544,338 AGE Under 5 years............................................
83,223 5 to 17 years............................................
196,903 18 to 20 years...........................................
48,549 21 to 24 years...........................................
72,636 25 to 44 years...........................................
379,035 45 to 54 years...........................................
108,775 55 to 59 years...........................................
45,375 60 to 64 years...........................................
48,728 65 to 74 years...........................................
78,653 75 to 84 years...........................................
35,955 85 years and over........................................
280,126 Percent of total population..............................
25.3 65 years and over...........................................
125,005 Percent of total population..............................
11.3 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
210,468 Percent of total households........................
59.1 Other family, male householder........................
15,579 Other family, female householder......................
92,811 Percent of total households........................
68,985 Householder 65 years and over......................
20,933 Persons living in households.............................
3.01 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
7,805 Other persons in group quarters.......................
29,827 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
27,195 Percent of total population...........................
2.5 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
5,099 Percent of total population...........................
685,236 Percent of total population...........................
21,083 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
81,390 Percent of total population...........................
7.3 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Hawaii Total housing units...................................
389,810 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
33,543 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
12,806 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
0.8 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
5.4 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
3.19 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.78 Units with over 1 person per room........................
56,708 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
34,041 2 to 4 units.............................................
24,182 5 to 9 units.............................................
22,258 10 or more units.........................................
100,238 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
6,101 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
245,300 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
599 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
7,787 Percent of occupied units..........................
2.2 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
1,586 Percent of occupied units..........................
202,518 Percent of occupied units..........................
5,951 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
20,176 Percent of occupied units..........................
5.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Idaho Total population......................................
505,793 AGE Under 5 years............................................
80,193 5 to 17 years............................................
228,212 18 to 20 years...........................................
47,064 21 to 24 years...........................................
51,183 25 to 44 years...........................................
301,968 45 to 54 years...........................................
98,907 55 to 59 years...........................................
39,407 60 to 64 years...........................................
38,550 65 to 74 years...........................................
69,755 75 to 84 years...........................................
40,112 85 years and over........................................
308,405 Percent of total population..............................
30.6 65 years and over...........................................
121,265 Percent of total population..............................
12.0 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
224,198 Percent of total households........................
62.2 Other family, male householder........................
10,113 Other family, female householder......................
97,529 Percent of total households........................
80,800 Householder 65 years and over......................
32,939 Persons living in households.............................
2.73 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
10,478 Other persons in group quarters.......................
11,012 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
3,370 Percent of total population...........................
0.3 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
13,780 Percent of total population...........................
1.4 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
9,365 Percent of total population...........................
29,783 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
52,927 Percent of total population...........................
5.3 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Idaho Total housing units...................................
413,327 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
52,604 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
24,252 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
7.3 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.82 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.51 Units with over 1 person per room........................
15,199 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
9,102 2 to 4 units.............................................
29,151 5 to 9 units.............................................
11,701 10 or more units.........................................
17,242 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
60,246 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
58,200 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
261 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
1,095 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.3 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
4,082 Percent of occupied units..........................
1.1 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
2,602 Percent of occupied units..........................
7,460 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
13,464 Percent of occupied units..........................
3.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Illinois Total population......................................
5,878,369 AGE Under 5 years............................................
848,141 5 to 17 years............................................
2,098,225 18 to 20 years...........................................
531,971 21 to 24 years...........................................
680,979 25 to 44 years...........................................
3,693,329 45 to 54 years...........................................
1,166,727 55 to 59 years...........................................
485,581 60 to 64 years...........................................
489,104 65 to 74 years...........................................
821,940 75 to 84 years...........................................
467,056 85 years and over........................................
2,946,366 Percent of total population..............................
25.8 65 years and over...........................................
1,436,545 Percent of total population..............................
12.6 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
2,271,962 Percent of total households........................
54.1 Other family, male householder........................
147,173 Other family, female householder......................
1,277,360 Percent of total households........................
1,081,113 Householder 65 years and over......................
423,740 Persons living in households.............................
2.65 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
149,842 Other persons in group quarters.......................
137,114 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
1,694,273 Percent of total population...........................
14.8 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
21,836 Percent of total population...........................
285,311 Percent of total population...........................
476,204 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
904,446 Percent of total population...........................
7.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Illinois Total housing units...................................
4,506,275 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
304,035 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
25,056 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
1.5 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
8.0 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.81 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.37 Units with over 1 person per room........................
166,805 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
157,771 2 to 4 units.............................................
648,275 5 to 9 units.............................................
290,519 10 or more units.........................................
663,448 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
189,093 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
80,900 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
369 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
550,311 Percent of occupied units..........................
13.1 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
7,438 Percent of occupied units..........................
80,671 Percent of occupied units..........................
115,955 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
229,993 Percent of occupied units..........................
5.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Indiana Total population......................................
2,855,878 AGE Under 5 years............................................
398,656 5 to 17 years............................................
1,057,308 18 to 20 years...........................................
279,864 21 to 24 years...........................................
325,018 25 to 44 years...........................................
1,734,270 45 to 54 years...........................................
570,791 55 to 59 years...........................................
239,692 60 to 64 years...........................................
242,364 65 to 74 years...........................................
402,041 75 to 84 years...........................................
222,404 85 years and over........................................
1,455,964 Percent of total population..............................
26.3 65 years and over...........................................
696,196 Percent of total population..............................
1,202,020 Percent of total households........................
58.2 Other family, male householder........................
60,703 Other family, female householder......................
585,004 Percent of total households........................
496,841 Householder 65 years and over......................
208,437 Persons living in households.............................
81,686 Other persons in group quarters.......................
80,306 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
432,092 Percent of total population...........................
7.8 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
12,720 Percent of total population...........................
37,617 Percent of total population...........................
41,030 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
98,788 Percent of total population...........................
1.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Indiana Total housing units...................................
2,246,046 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
180,691 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
36,945 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
8.3 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.73 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
45,376 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
57,445 2 to 4 units.............................................
170,801 5 to 9 units.............................................
99,836 10 or more units.........................................
167,718 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
176,086 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
53,900 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
291 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
149,055 Percent of occupied units..........................
4,519 Percent of occupied units..........................
10,853 Percent of occupied units..........................
11,075 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
27,571 Percent of occupied units..........................
1.3 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Iowa Total population......................................
1,431,953 AGE Under 5 years............................................
193,203 5 to 17 years............................................
525,677 18 to 20 years...........................................
131,299 21 to 24 years...........................................
152,414 25 to 44 years...........................................
823,940 45 to 54 years...........................................
274,428 55 to 59 years...........................................
122,335 60 to 64 years...........................................
127,353 65 to 74 years...........................................
226,961 75 to 84 years...........................................
143,890 85 years and over........................................
718,880 Percent of total population..............................
25.9 65 years and over...........................................
426,106 Percent of total population..............................
15.3 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
629,893 Percent of total households........................
25,785 Other family, female householder......................
323,506 Percent of total households........................
275,466 Householder 65 years and over......................
130,964 Persons living in households.............................
2.52 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
47,841 Other persons in group quarters.......................
51,679 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
48,090 Percent of total population...........................
1.7 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
7,349 Percent of total population...........................
25,476 Percent of total population...........................
12,750 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
32,647 Percent of total population...........................
1.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Iowa Total housing units...................................
1,143,669 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
79,344 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
14,644 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
6.4 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.63 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
16,009 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
17,735 2 to 4 units.............................................
86,956 5 to 9 units.............................................
40,745 10 or more units.........................................
76,761 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
68,479 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
45,900 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
15,741 Percent of occupied units..........................
1.5 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
2,157 Percent of occupied units..........................
6,287 Percent of occupied units..........................
3,366 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
8,926 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Kansas Total population......................................
1,262,929 AGE Under 5 years............................................
188,390 5 to 17 years............................................
473,224 18 to 20 years...........................................
113,717 21 to 24 years...........................................
140,776 25 to 44 years...........................................
774,499 45 to 54 years...........................................
235,388 55 to 59 years...........................................
103,821 60 to 64 years...........................................
105,188 65 to 74 years...........................................
184,664 75 to 84 years...........................................
115,666 85 years and over........................................
661,614 Percent of total population..............................
342,571 Percent of total population..............................
13.8 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
552,495 Percent of total households........................
58.5 Other family, male householder........................
24,672 Other family, female householder......................
286,126 Percent of total households........................
245,156 Householder 65 years and over......................
104,297 Persons living in households.............................
2.53 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
42,896 Other persons in group quarters.......................
39,869 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
143,076 Percent of total population...........................
5.8 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
21,965 Percent of total population...........................
0.9 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
31,750 Percent of total population...........................
48,797 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
93,670 Percent of total population...........................
3.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Kansas Total housing units...................................
1,044,112 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
99,386 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
7,336 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
11.1 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.64 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.31 Units with over 1 person per room........................
23,690 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
34,868 2 to 4 units.............................................
74,100 5 to 9 units.............................................
34,720 10 or more units.........................................
74,710 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
78,396 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
52,200 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
285 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
48,365 Percent of occupied units..........................
5.1 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
6,974 Percent of occupied units..........................
8,357 Percent of occupied units..........................
13,386 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
25,606 Percent of occupied units..........................
2.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Kentucky Total population......................................
1,900,061 AGE Under 5 years............................................
250,871 5 to 17 years............................................
703,223 18 to 20 years...........................................
182,178 21 to 24 years...........................................
217,811 25 to 44 years...........................................
1,159,182 45 to 54 years...........................................
382,366 55 to 59 years...........................................
162,821 60 to 64 years...........................................
159,999 65 to 74 years...........................................
268,226 75 to 84 years...........................................
152,252 85 years and over........................................
954,094 Percent of total population..............................
466,845 Percent of total population..............................
12.7 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
816,732 Percent of total households........................
39,606 Other family, female householder......................
363,784 Percent of total households........................
321,247 Householder 65 years and over......................
142,045 Persons living in households.............................
2.60 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
47,609 Other persons in group quarters.......................
53,567 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
262,907 Percent of total population...........................
7.1 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
5,769 Percent of total population...........................
17,812 Percent of total population...........................
6,976 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
21,984 Percent of total population...........................
0.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Kentucky Total housing units...................................
1,506,845 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
127,063 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
20,962 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
1.6 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
8.2 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.69 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
35,873 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
25,285 2 to 4 units.............................................
109,291 5 to 9 units.............................................
65,348 10 or more units.........................................
96,494 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
199,567 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
50,500 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
250 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
92,639 Percent of occupied units..........................
6.7 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
2,108 Percent of occupied units..........................
4,634 Percent of occupied units..........................
1,595 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
6,220 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Louisiana Total population......................................
2,188,587 AGE Under 5 years............................................
334,650 5 to 17 years............................................
892,619 18 to 20 years...........................................
210,010 21 to 24 years...........................................
254,501 25 to 44 years...........................................
1,309,858 45 to 54 years...........................................
406,440 55 to 59 years...........................................
171,927 60 to 64 years...........................................
170,977 65 to 74 years...........................................
275,008 75 to 84 years...........................................
150,350 85 years and over........................................
1,227,269 Percent of total population..............................
29.1 65 years and over...........................................
468,991 Percent of total population..............................
11.1 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
803,282 Percent of total households........................
53.6 Other family, male householder........................
52,471 Other family, female householder......................
409,387 Percent of total households........................
356,060 Householder 65 years and over......................
137,596 Persons living in households.............................
2.74 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
67,276 Other persons in group quarters.......................
45,302 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
1,299,281 Percent of total population...........................
30.8 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
18,541 Percent of total population...........................
41,099 Percent of total population...........................
21,914 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
93,044 Percent of total population...........................
2.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Louisiana Total housing units...................................
1,716,241 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
216,972 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
30,333 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
2.7 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
12.5 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.83 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.57 Units with over 1 person per room........................
89,268 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
79,002 2 to 4 units.............................................
152,060 5 to 9 units.............................................
58,819 10 or more units.........................................
124,916 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
217,523 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
58,500 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
260 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
406,880 Percent of occupied units..........................
27.1 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
5,686 Percent of occupied units..........................
10,404 Percent of occupied units..........................
6,649 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
29,990 Percent of occupied units..........................
2.0 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Maine Total population......................................
630,078 AGE Under 5 years............................................
85,722 5 to 17 years............................................
223,280 18 to 20 years...........................................
56,232 21 to 24 years...........................................
67,540 25 to 44 years...........................................
398,580 45 to 54 years...........................................
124,751 55 to 59 years...........................................
54,216 60 to 64 years...........................................
54,234 65 to 74 years...........................................
91,600 75 to 84 years...........................................
53,547 85 years and over........................................
309,002 Percent of total population..............................
25.2 65 years and over...........................................
163,373 Percent of total population..............................
13.3 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
270,565 Percent of total households........................
58.1 Other family, male householder........................
13,760 Other family, female householder......................
136,627 Percent of total households........................
108,474 Householder 65 years and over......................
48,257 Persons living in households.............................
2.56 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
14,136 Other persons in group quarters.......................
23,033 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
5,138 Percent of total population...........................
0.4 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
5,998 Percent of total population...........................
6,683 Percent of total population...........................
1,749 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
6,829 Percent of total population...........................
0.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Maine Total housing units...................................
587,045 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
121,733 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
88,039 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
8.4 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.20 Units with over 1 person per room........................
7,998 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
11,753 2 to 4 units.............................................
74,077 5 to 9 units.............................................
28,553 10 or more units.........................................
26,230 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
68,019 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
87,400 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
358 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
1,458 Percent of occupied units..........................
1,860 Percent of occupied units..........................
1,503 Percent of occupied units..........................
381 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
1,880 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.4 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Maryland Total population......................................
2,462,797 AGE Under 5 years............................................
357,818 5 to 17 years............................................
804,423 18 to 20 years...........................................
208,411 21 to 24 years...........................................
296,962 25 to 44 years...........................................
1,677,104 45 to 54 years...........................................
521,801 55 to 59 years...........................................
202,170 60 to 64 years...........................................
195,297 65 to 74 years...........................................
314,491 75 to 84 years...........................................
156,495 85 years and over........................................
1,162,241 Percent of total population..............................
24.3 65 years and over...........................................
517,482 Percent of total population..............................
10.8 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
948,563 Percent of total households........................
54.2 Other family, male householder........................
65,362 Other family, female householder......................
503,177 Percent of total households........................
394,572 Householder 65 years and over......................
135,318 Persons living in households.............................
2.67 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
62,760 Other persons in group quarters.......................
51,096 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
1,189,899 Percent of total population...........................
24.9 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
12,972 Percent of total population...........................
139,719 Percent of total population...........................
44,914 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
125,102 Percent of total population...........................
2.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Maryland Total housing units...................................
1,891,917 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
142,926 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
42,268 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
1.7 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
6.8 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.79 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.45 Units with over 1 person per room........................
53,139 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
393,185 2 to 4 units.............................................
104,332 5 to 9 units.............................................
105,530 10 or more units.........................................
294,364 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
55,992 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
116,500 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
473 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
401,460 Percent of occupied units..........................
23.0 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
4,406 Percent of occupied units..........................
38,062 Percent of occupied units..........................
11,169 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
34,404 Percent of occupied units..........................
2.0 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Massachusetts Total population......................................
3,127,680 AGE Under 5 years............................................
412,473 5 to 17 years............................................
940,602 18 to 20 years...........................................
302,128 21 to 24 years...........................................
406,971 25 to 44 years...........................................
2,019,817 45 to 54 years...........................................
600,095 55 to 59 years...........................................
253,458 60 to 64 years...........................................
261,597 65 to 74 years...........................................
459,881 75 to 84 years...........................................
267,194 85 years and over........................................
1,353,075 Percent of total population..............................
22.5 65 years and over...........................................
819,284 Percent of total population..............................
1,170,275 Percent of total households........................
52.1 Other family, male householder........................
73,548 Other family, female householder......................
732,364 Percent of total households........................
580,774 Householder 65 years and over......................
243,334 Persons living in households.............................
2.58 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
84,345 Other persons in group quarters.......................
129,962 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
300,130 Percent of total population...........................
5.0 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
12,241 Percent of total population...........................
143,392 Percent of total population...........................
155,288 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
287,549 Percent of total population...........................
4.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Massachusetts Total housing units...................................
2,472,711 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
225,601 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
90,367 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
2.24 Units with over 1 person per room........................
56,700 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
88,746 2 to 4 units.............................................
597,143 5 to 9 units.............................................
159,332 10 or more units.........................................
338,585 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
51,119 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
162,800 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
506 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
99,402 Percent of occupied units..........................
4.4 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
4,208 Percent of occupied units..........................
38,728 Percent of occupied units..........................
42,824 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
81,649 Percent of occupied units..........................
3.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Michigan Total population......................................
4,782,516 AGE Under 5 years............................................
702,554 5 to 17 years............................................
1,756,211 18 to 20 years...........................................
449,966 21 to 24 years...........................................
554,561 25 to 44 years...........................................
2,980,702 45 to 54 years...........................................
948,119 55 to 59 years...........................................
392,787 60 to 64 years...........................................
401,936 65 to 74 years...........................................
655,838 75 to 84 years...........................................
345,716 85 years and over........................................
2,458,765 Percent of total population..............................
26.5 65 years and over...........................................
1,108,461 Percent of total population..............................
11.9 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
1,883,143 Percent of total households........................
55.1 Other family, male householder........................
113,789 Other family, female householder......................
980,160 Percent of total households........................
809,449 Householder 65 years and over......................
317,659 Persons living in households.............................
112,903 Other persons in group quarters.......................
98,789 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
1,291,706 Percent of total population...........................
13.9 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
55,638 Percent of total population...........................
0.6 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
104,983 Percent of total population...........................
86,884 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
201,596 Percent of total population...........................
2.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Michigan Total housing units...................................
3,847,926 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
428,595 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
223,549 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
1.3 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
7.2 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.80 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
90,551 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
130,583 2 to 4 units.............................................
267,767 5 to 9 units.............................................
150,831 10 or more units.........................................
336,721 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
288,840 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
60,600 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
343 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
441,984 Percent of occupied units..........................
12.9 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
17,709 Percent of occupied units..........................
28,204 Percent of occupied units..........................
23,693 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
55,798 Percent of occupied units..........................
1.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Minnesota Total population......................................
2,229,916 AGE Under 5 years............................................
336,800 5 to 17 years............................................
829,983 18 to 20 years...........................................
192,809 21 to 24 years...........................................
250,000 25 to 44 years...........................................
1,445,827 45 to 54 years...........................................
428,460 55 to 59 years...........................................
173,066 60 to 64 years...........................................
171,220 65 to 74 years...........................................
294,522 75 to 84 years...........................................
183,577 85 years and over........................................
1,166,783 Percent of total population..............................
546,934 Percent of total population..............................
12.5 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
942,524 Percent of total households........................
57.2 Other family, male householder........................
46,605 Other family, female householder......................
517,170 Percent of total households........................
413,531 Householder 65 years and over......................
167,001 Persons living in households.............................
63,279 Other persons in group quarters.......................
54,342 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
94,944 Percent of total population...........................
2.2 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
49,909 Percent of total population...........................
1.1 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
77,886 Percent of total population...........................
21,965 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
53,884 Percent of total population...........................
1.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Minnesota Total housing units...................................
1,848,445 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
200,592 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
105,122 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
2.78 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.08 Units with over 1 person per room........................
34,126 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
69,267 2 to 4 units.............................................
115,347 5 to 9 units.............................................
45,190 10 or more units.........................................
276,475 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
111,605 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
74,000 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
384 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
31,201 Percent of occupied units..........................
1.9 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
14,168 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.9 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
17,198 Percent of occupied units..........................
5,564 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
14,039 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Mississippi Total population......................................
1,342,599 AGE Under 5 years............................................
195,365 5 to 17 years............................................
551,396 18 to 20 years...........................................
141,847 21 to 24 years...........................................
151,499 25 to 44 years...........................................
749,584 45 to 54 years...........................................
247,745 55 to 59 years...........................................
107,784 60 to 64 years...........................................
106,712 65 to 74 years...........................................
180,149 75 to 84 years...........................................
108,800 85 years and over........................................
746,761 Percent of total population..............................
29.0 65 years and over...........................................
321,284 Percent of total population..............................
498,240 Percent of total households........................
54.7 Other family, male householder........................
30,917 Other family, female householder......................
236,996 Percent of total households........................
212,949 Householder 65 years and over......................
98,180 Persons living in households.............................
2.75 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
29,733 Other persons in group quarters.......................
39,984 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
915,057 Percent of total population...........................
35.6 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
8,525 Percent of total population...........................
13,016 Percent of total population...........................
3,157 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
15,931 Percent of total population...........................
0.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Mississippi Total housing units...................................
1,010,423 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
99,049 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
16,002 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
9.5 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.65 Units with over 1 person per room........................
52,890 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
17,060 2 to 4 units.............................................
56,813 5 to 9 units.............................................
35,675 10 or more units.........................................
41,322 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
149,255 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
45,600 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
215 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
281,515 Percent of occupied units..........................
30.9 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
2,329 Percent of occupied units..........................
3,203 Percent of occupied units..........................
857 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
4,745 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Missouri Total population......................................
2,652,758 AGE Under 5 years............................................
369,244 5 to 17 years............................................
945,582 18 to 20 years...........................................
234,368 21 to 24 years...........................................
282,823 25 to 44 years...........................................
1,586,813 45 to 54 years...........................................
523,177 55 to 59 years...........................................
228,556 60 to 64 years...........................................
228,829 65 to 74 years...........................................
394,202 75 to 84 years...........................................
242,262 85 years and over........................................
1,314,826 Percent of total population..............................
25.7 65 years and over...........................................
717,681 Percent of total population..............................
14.0 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
1,104,723 Percent of total households........................
56.3 Other family, male householder........................
55,436 Other family, female householder......................
592,872 Percent of total households........................
510,684 Householder 65 years and over......................
221,516 Persons living in households.............................
2.54 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
80,854 Other persons in group quarters.......................
64,543 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
548,208 Percent of total population...........................
10.7 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
19,835 Percent of total population...........................
41,277 Percent of total population...........................
21,525 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
61,702 Percent of total population...........................
1.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Missouri Total housing units...................................
2,199,129 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
237,923 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
55,492 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
2.2 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
10.7 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.67 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
48,264 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
57,345 2 to 4 units.............................................
212,483 5 to 9 units.............................................
85,323 10 or more units.........................................
172,360 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
181,957 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
59,800 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
282 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
188,853 Percent of occupied units..........................
9.6 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
7,298 Percent of occupied units..........................
11,584 Percent of occupied units..........................
6,049 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
18,444 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Montana Total population......................................
403,296 AGE Under 5 years............................................
59,257 5 to 17 years............................................
162,847 18 to 20 years...........................................
32,703 21 to 24 years...........................................
37,308 25 to 44 years...........................................
249,826 45 to 54 years...........................................
82,306 55 to 59 years...........................................
34,005 60 to 64 years...........................................
34,316 65 to 74 years...........................................
60,884 75 to 84 years...........................................
34,937 85 years and over........................................
222,104 Percent of total population..............................
27.8 65 years and over...........................................
106,497 Percent of total population..............................
176,526 Percent of total households........................
57.7 Other family, male householder........................
8,743 Other family, female householder......................
94,497 Percent of total households........................
80,491 Householder 65 years and over......................
32,208 Persons living in households.............................
11,125 Other persons in group quarters.......................
12,622 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
2,381 Percent of total population...........................
47,679 Percent of total population...........................
6.0 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
4,259 Percent of total population...........................
3,635 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
12,174 Percent of total population...........................
1.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Montana Total housing units...................................
361,155 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
54,992 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
20,481 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
3.0 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
9.6 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.65 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.28 Units with over 1 person per room........................
8,886 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
8,432 2 to 4 units.............................................
29,327 5 to 9 units.............................................
10,376 10 or more units.........................................
16,931 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
58,556 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
56,600 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
251 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
760 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.2 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
13,230 Percent of occupied units..........................
4.3 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
1,040 Percent of occupied units..........................
1,103 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
3,374 Percent of occupied units..........................
1.1 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Nevada Total population......................................
589,953 AGE Under 5 years............................................
92,217 5 to 17 years............................................
204,731 18 to 20 years...........................................
47,863 21 to 24 years...........................................
71,082 25 to 44 years...........................................
414,292 45 to 54 years...........................................
136,000 55 to 59 years...........................................
54,681 60 to 64 years...........................................
53,336 65 to 74 years...........................................
85,785 75 to 84 years...........................................
34,383 85 years and over........................................
296,948 Percent of total population..............................
24.7 65 years and over...........................................
127,631 Percent of total population..............................
10.6 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
239,573 Percent of total households........................
51.4 Other family, male householder........................
20,318 Other family, female householder......................
158,897 Percent of total households........................
119,627 Householder 65 years and over......................
33,244 Persons living in households.............................
13,550 Other persons in group quarters.......................
10,650 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
78,771 Percent of total population...........................
6.6 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
19,637 Percent of total population...........................
1.6 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
38,127 Percent of total population...........................
52,603 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
124,419 Percent of total population...........................
10.4 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Nevada Total housing units...................................
518,858 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
52,561 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
11,258 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
9.1 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.35 Units with over 1 person per room........................
29,890 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
26,819 2 to 4 units.............................................
49,889 5 to 9 units.............................................
40,757 10 or more units.........................................
89,864 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
75,617 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
95,700 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
445 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
26,485 Percent of occupied units..........................
5.7 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
6,564 Percent of occupied units..........................
1.4 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
10,875 Percent of occupied units..........................
14,514 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
35,658 Percent of occupied units..........................
7.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** New Hampshire Total population......................................
565,708 AGE Under 5 years............................................
84,565 5 to 17 years............................................
194,190 18 to 20 years...........................................
52,399 21 to 24 years...........................................
65,203 25 to 44 years...........................................
387,455 45 to 54 years...........................................
112,215 55 to 59 years...........................................
44,703 60 to 64 years...........................................
43,493 65 to 74 years...........................................
71,471 75 to 84 years...........................................
40,272 85 years and over........................................
278,755 Percent of total population..............................
25.1 65 years and over...........................................
125,029 Percent of total population..............................
245,307 Percent of total households........................
59.7 Other family, male householder........................
12,517 Other family, female householder......................
118,585 Percent of total households........................
90,364 Householder 65 years and over......................
34,522 Persons living in households.............................
11,466 Other persons in group quarters.......................
20,685 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
7,198 Percent of total population...........................
0.6 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
2,134 Percent of total population...........................
9,343 Percent of total population...........................
3,144 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
11,333 Percent of total population...........................
1.0 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** New Hampshire Total housing units...................................
503,904 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
92,718 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
57,135 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
11.8 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
6,610 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
23,072 2 to 4 units.............................................
68,105 5 to 9 units.............................................
26,985 10 or more units.........................................
46,022 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
41,943 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
129,400 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
479 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
2,322 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.6 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
764 Percent of occupied units..........................
2,421 Percent of occupied units..........................
847 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
3,255 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** New Jersey Total population......................................
3,994,503 AGE Under 5 years............................................
532,637 5 to 17 years............................................
1,266,825 18 to 20 years...........................................
326,079 21 to 24 years...........................................
453,105 25 to 44 years...........................................
2,557,310 45 to 54 years...........................................
843,009 55 to 59 years...........................................
355,677 60 to 64 years...........................................
363,521 65 to 74 years...........................................
610,192 75 to 84 years...........................................
326,286 85 years and over........................................
1,799,462 Percent of total population..............................
23.3 65 years and over...........................................
1,032,025 Percent of total population..............................
13.4 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
1,578,702 Percent of total households........................
56.5 Other family, male householder........................
104,189 Other family, female householder......................
773,365 Percent of total households........................
646,171 Householder 65 years and over......................
273,736 Persons living in households.............................
2.70 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
92,670 Other persons in group quarters.......................
78,698 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
1,036,825 Percent of total population...........................
13.4 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
14,970 Percent of total population...........................
272,521 Percent of total population...........................
275,407 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
739,861 Percent of total population...........................
9.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** New Jersey Total housing units...................................
3,075,310 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
280,599 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
100,591 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
7.4 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.87 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.40 Units with over 1 person per room........................
108,771 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
234,829 2 to 4 units.............................................
526,997 5 to 9 units.............................................
146,396 10 or more units.........................................
453,254 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
76,705 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
162,300 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
521 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
333,782 Percent of occupied units..........................
11.9 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
5,105 Percent of occupied units..........................
73,840 Percent of occupied units..........................
74,174 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
215,526 Percent of occupied units..........................
7.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** New Mexico Total population......................................
769,816 AGE Under 5 years............................................
125,878 5 to 17 years............................................
320,863 18 to 20 years...........................................
68,168 21 to 24 years...........................................
83,656 25 to 44 years...........................................
484,466 45 to 54 years...........................................
147,448 55 to 59 years...........................................
62,038 60 to 64 years...........................................
59,490 65 to 74 years...........................................
97,607 75 to 84 years...........................................
51,223 85 years and over........................................
446,741 Percent of total population..............................
29.5 65 years and over...........................................
163,062 Percent of total population..............................
303,789 Percent of total households........................
56.0 Other family, male householder........................
23,143 Other family, female householder......................
151,222 Percent of total households........................
124,883 Householder 65 years and over......................
42,964 Persons living in households.............................
14,024 Other persons in group quarters.......................
14,783 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
30,210 Percent of total population...........................
2.0 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
134,355 Percent of total population...........................
8.9 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
14,124 Percent of total population...........................
190,352 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
579,224 Percent of total population...........................
38.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** New Mexico Total housing units...................................
632,058 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
89,349 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
21,862 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
2.85 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.52 Units with over 1 person per room........................
42,810 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
28,352 2 to 4 units.............................................
38,833 5 to 9 units.............................................
16,434 10 or more units.........................................
48,239 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
112,370 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
70,100 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
312 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
10,377 Percent of occupied units..........................
33,489 Percent of occupied units..........................
6.2 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
3,733 Percent of occupied units..........................
59,300 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
178,709 Percent of occupied units..........................
32.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** New York Total population......................................
9,364,782 AGE Under 5 years............................................
1,255,764 5 to 17 years............................................
3,003,785 18 to 20 years...........................................
839,066 21 to 24 years...........................................
1,114,358 25 to 44 years...........................................
5,862,873 45 to 54 years...........................................
1,913,920 55 to 59 years...........................................
811,857 60 to 64 years...........................................
825,110 65 to 74 years...........................................
1,348,279 75 to 84 years...........................................
767,270 85 years and over........................................
4,259,549 Percent of total population..............................
23.7 65 years and over...........................................
2,363,722 Percent of total population..............................
3,315,845 Percent of total households........................
49.9 Other family, male householder........................
254,201 Other family, female householder......................
2,150,010 Percent of total households........................
1,806,263 Householder 65 years and over......................
700,016 Persons living in households.............................
2.63 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
267,122 Other persons in group quarters.......................
278,143 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
2,859,055 Percent of total population...........................
62,651 Percent of total population...........................
693,760 Percent of total population...........................
989,734 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
2,214,026 Percent of total population...........................
12.3 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** New York Total housing units...................................
7,226,891 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
587,569 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
212,625 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
4.9 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.86 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
431,733 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
301,794 2 to 4 units.............................................
1,320,073 5 to 9 units.............................................
374,858 10 or more units.........................................
1,998,074 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
302,759 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
131,600 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
428 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
947,597 Percent of occupied units..........................
14.3 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
20,375 Percent of occupied units..........................
201,644 Percent of occupied units..........................
284,879 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
665,079 Percent of occupied units..........................
10.0 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** North Carolina Total population......................................
3,414,347 AGE Under 5 years............................................
458,955 5 to 17 years............................................
1,147,194 18 to 20 years...........................................
348,346 21 to 24 years...........................................
432,707 25 to 44 years...........................................
2,151,486 45 to 54 years...........................................
698,705 55 to 59 years...........................................
295,739 60 to 64 years...........................................
291,164 65 to 74 years...........................................
483,105 75 to 84 years...........................................
251,267 85 years and over........................................
1,606,149 Percent of total population..............................
24.2 65 years and over...........................................
804,341 Percent of total population..............................
1,424,206 Percent of total households........................
56.6 Other family, male householder........................
77,971 Other family, female householder......................
704,973 Percent of total households........................
596,959 Householder 65 years and over......................
226,384 Persons living in households.............................
83,400 Other persons in group quarters.......................
141,070 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
1,456,323 Percent of total population...........................
22.0 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
80,155 Percent of total population...........................
1.2 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
52,166 Percent of total population...........................
31,502 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
76,726 Percent of total population...........................
1.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** North Carolina Total housing units...................................
2,818,193 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
301,167 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
98,714 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
9.2 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.62 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
72,635 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
74,318 2 to 4 units.............................................
177,700 5 to 9 units.............................................
130,801 10 or more units.........................................
150,986 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
454,159 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
65,800 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
284 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
492,214 Percent of occupied units..........................
19.6 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
25,528 Percent of occupied units..........................
1.0 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
13,706 Percent of occupied units..........................
7,984 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
21,533 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** North Dakota Total population......................................
320,599 AGE Under 5 years............................................
47,845 5 to 17 years............................................
127,540 18 to 20 years...........................................
30,750 21 to 24 years...........................................
37,103 25 to 44 years...........................................
194,035 45 to 54 years...........................................
57,084 55 to 59 years...........................................
26,268 60 to 64 years...........................................
27,120 65 to 74 years...........................................
47,541 75 to 84 years...........................................
32,274 85 years and over........................................
175,385 Percent of total population..............................
27.5 65 years and over...........................................
91,055 Percent of total population..............................
14.3 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
142,374 Percent of total households........................
6,373 Other family, female householder......................
74,608 Percent of total households........................
63,953 Householder 65 years and over......................
28,021 Persons living in households.............................
2.55 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
10,574 Other persons in group quarters.......................
13,660 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
3,524 Percent of total population...........................
25,917 Percent of total population...........................
4.1 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
3,462 Percent of total population...........................
1,755 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
4,665 Percent of total population...........................
0.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** North Dakota Total housing units...................................
276,340 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
35,462 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
7,236 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
2.9 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
9.0 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.18 Units with over 1 person per room........................
4,762 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
10,286 2 to 4 units.............................................
21,127 5 to 9 units.............................................
12,011 10 or more units.........................................
30,362 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
29,616 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
50,800 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
266 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
1,077 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.4 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
6,998 Percent of occupied units..........................
2.9 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
879 Percent of occupied units..........................
436 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
1,138 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Ohio Total population......................................
5,620,775 AGE Under 5 years............................................
785,149 5 to 17 years............................................
2,014,595 18 to 20 years...........................................
511,421 21 to 24 years...........................................
624,997 25 to 44 years...........................................
3,411,043 45 to 54 years...........................................
1,113,443 55 to 59 years...........................................
482,526 60 to 64 years...........................................
496,980 65 to 74 years...........................................
828,028 75 to 84 years...........................................
440,903 85 years and over........................................
2,799,744 Percent of total population..............................
1,406,961 Percent of total population..............................
13.0 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
2,294,111 Percent of total households........................
56.1 Other family, male householder........................
123,042 Other family, female householder......................
1,192,323 Percent of total households........................
1,020,450 Householder 65 years and over......................
416,352 Persons living in households.............................
152,331 Other persons in group quarters.......................
109,120 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
1,154,826 Percent of total population...........................
10.6 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
20,358 Percent of total population...........................
91,179 Percent of total population...........................
58,996 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
139,696 Percent of total population...........................
1.3 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Ohio Total housing units...................................
4,371,945 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
284,399 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
37,324 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
1.4 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
7.5 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.27 Units with over 1 person per room........................
71,771 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
147,651 2 to 4 units.............................................
461,286 5 to 9 units.............................................
204,074 10 or more units.........................................
415,589 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
246,519 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
63,500 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
296 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
415,670 Percent of occupied units..........................
10.2 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
7,688 Percent of occupied units..........................
26,824 Percent of occupied units..........................
16,120 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
41,119 Percent of occupied units..........................
1.0 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Oklahoma Total population......................................
1,614,766 AGE Under 5 years............................................
226,523 5 to 17 years............................................
610,484 18 to 20 years...........................................
148,115 21 to 24 years...........................................
173,274 25 to 44 years...........................................
961,560 45 to 54 years...........................................
322,975 55 to 59 years...........................................
141,214 60 to 64 years...........................................
137,227 65 to 74 years...........................................
235,135 75 to 84 years...........................................
143,230 85 years and over........................................
837,007 Percent of total population..............................
26.6 65 years and over...........................................
424,213 Percent of total population..............................
13.5 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
695,961 Percent of total households........................
33,891 Other family, female householder......................
350,814 Percent of total households........................
309,369 Householder 65 years and over......................
131,237 Persons living in households.............................
51,211 Other persons in group quarters.......................
42,466 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
233,801 Percent of total population...........................
252,420 Percent of total population...........................
8.0 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
33,563 Percent of total population...........................
42,289 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
86,160 Percent of total population...........................
2.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Oklahoma Total housing units...................................
1,406,499 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
200,364 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
25,169 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
14.7 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.59 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.41 Units with over 1 person per room........................
39,941 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
32,851 2 to 4 units.............................................
69,010 5 to 9 units.............................................
56,306 10 or more units.........................................
99,611 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
143,701 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
48,100 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
259 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
79,203 Percent of occupied units..........................
6.6 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
77,846 Percent of occupied units..........................
6.5 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
9,439 Percent of occupied units..........................
11,681 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
23,481 Percent of occupied units..........................
1.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Oregon Total population......................................
1,445,248 AGE Under 5 years............................................
201,421 5 to 17 years............................................
522,709 18 to 20 years...........................................
119,327 21 to 24 years...........................................
148,201 25 to 44 years...........................................
926,395 45 to 54 years...........................................
296,595 55 to 59 years...........................................
116,011 60 to 64 years...........................................
120,338 65 to 74 years...........................................
224,438 75 to 84 years...........................................
128,071 85 years and over........................................
724,130 Percent of total population..............................
25.5 65 years and over...........................................
391,324 Percent of total population..............................
613,297 Percent of total households........................
35,785 Other family, female householder......................
352,469 Percent of total households........................
278,716 Householder 65 years and over......................
108,579 Persons living in households.............................
33,378 Other persons in group quarters.......................
32,827 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
46,178 Percent of total population...........................
1.6 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
38,496 Percent of total population...........................
69,269 Percent of total population...........................
51,591 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
112,707 Percent of total population...........................
4.0 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Oregon Total housing units...................................
1,193,567 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
90,254 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
30,200 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
5.3 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.33 Units with over 1 person per room........................
40,135 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
32,355 2 to 4 units.............................................
86,371 5 to 9 units.............................................
46,847 10 or more units.........................................
118,592 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
145,144 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
67,100 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
15,385 Percent of occupied units..........................
1.4 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
11,923 Percent of occupied units..........................
20,008 Percent of occupied units..........................
12,286 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
2.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Pennsylvania Total population......................................
6,187,378 AGE Under 5 years............................................
797,058 5 to 17 years............................................
1,997,752 18 to 20 years...........................................
551,216 21 to 24 years...........................................
675,559 25 to 44 years...........................................
3,657,323 45 to 54 years...........................................
1,213,845 55 to 59 years...........................................
552,378 60 to 64 years...........................................
607,406 65 to 74 years...........................................
1,070,021 75 to 84 years...........................................
587,249 85 years and over........................................
2,794,810 Percent of total population..............................
23.5 65 years and over...........................................
1,829,106 Percent of total population..............................
15.4 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
2,502,072 Percent of total households........................
55.7 Other family, male householder........................
146,909 Other family, female householder......................
1,339,977 Percent of total households........................
1,150,694 Householder 65 years and over......................
526,264 Persons living in households.............................
174,210 Other persons in group quarters.......................
174,214 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
1,089,795 Percent of total population...........................
9.2 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
14,733 Percent of total population...........................
0.1 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
137,438 Percent of total population...........................
119,476 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
232,262 Percent of total population...........................
2.0 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Pennsylvania Total housing units...................................
4,938,140 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
442,174 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
144,359 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
2.72 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.19 Units with over 1 person per room........................
82,518 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
909,676 2 to 4 units.............................................
507,488 5 to 9 units.............................................
171,041 10 or more units.........................................
393,091 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
320,213 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
69,700 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
322 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
376,034 Percent of occupied units..........................
8.4 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
5,353 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.1 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
37,362 Percent of occupied units..........................
31,787 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
65,338 Percent of occupied units..........................
1.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Rhode Island Total population......................................
521,968 AGE Under 5 years............................................
66,969 5 to 17 years............................................
158,721 18 to 20 years...........................................
54,930 21 to 24 years...........................................
65,428 25 to 44 years...........................................
321,241 45 to 54 years...........................................
96,425 55 to 59 years...........................................
42,077 60 to 64 years...........................................
47,126 65 to 74 years...........................................
85,616 75 to 84 years...........................................
48,915 85 years and over........................................
225,690 Percent of total population..............................
150,547 Percent of total population..............................
15.0 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
202,283 Percent of total households........................
53.5 Other family, male householder........................
12,261 Other family, female householder......................
119,091 Percent of total households........................
99,111 Householder 65 years and over......................
44,627 Persons living in households.............................
14,801 Other persons in group quarters.......................
23,794 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
38,861 Percent of total population...........................
3.9 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
4,071 Percent of total population...........................
18,325 Percent of total population...........................
24,832 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
45,752 Percent of total population...........................
4.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Rhode Island Total housing units...................................
414,572 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
36,595 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
12,037 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
2.23 Units with over 1 person per room........................
8,676 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
11,188 2 to 4 units.............................................
109,460 5 to 9 units.............................................
23,024 10 or more units.........................................
43,280 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
8,844 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
133,500 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
416 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
12,445 Percent of occupied units..........................
3.3 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
1,339 Percent of occupied units..........................
4,471 Percent of occupied units..........................
6,973 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
13,092 Percent of occupied units..........................
3.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** South Carolina Total population......................................
1,798,193 AGE Under 5 years............................................
256,337 5 to 17 years............................................
663,870 18 to 20 years...........................................
185,514 21 to 24 years...........................................
221,012 25 to 44 years...........................................
1,114,643 45 to 54 years...........................................
355,610 55 to 59 years...........................................
148,762 60 to 64 years...........................................
144,020 65 to 74 years...........................................
246,305 75 to 84 years...........................................
119,881 85 years and over........................................
920,207 Percent of total population..............................
396,935 Percent of total population..............................
11.4 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
710,089 Percent of total households........................
56.4 Other family, male householder........................
41,913 Other family, female householder......................
329,838 Percent of total households........................
281,347 Householder 65 years and over......................
109,012 Persons living in households.............................
2.68 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
44,134 Other persons in group quarters.......................
72,409 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
1,039,884 Percent of total population...........................
29.8 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
8,246 Percent of total population...........................
22,382 Percent of total population...........................
9,217 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
30,551 Percent of total population...........................
0.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** South Carolina Total housing units...................................
1,424,155 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
166,111 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
49,843 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
11.5 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.75 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
51,061 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
33,891 2 to 4 units.............................................
91,572 5 to 9 units.............................................
67,091 10 or more units.........................................
80,065 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
253,375 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
61,100 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
276 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
323,878 Percent of occupied units..........................
25.7 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
2,747 Percent of occupied units..........................
5,599 Percent of occupied units..........................
2,380 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
8,586 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** South Dakota Total population......................................
353,506 AGE Under 5 years............................................
54,504 5 to 17 years............................................
143,958 18 to 20 years...........................................
31,014 21 to 24 years...........................................
37,099 25 to 44 years...........................................
204,629 45 to 54 years...........................................
62,669 55 to 59 years...........................................
29,218 60 to 64 years...........................................
30,582 65 to 74 years...........................................
54,471 75 to 84 years...........................................
34,517 85 years and over........................................
198,462 Percent of total population..............................
28.5 65 years and over...........................................
102,331 Percent of total population..............................
14.7 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
152,519 Percent of total households........................
58.9 Other family, male householder........................
7,076 Other family, female householder......................
78,728 Percent of total households........................
68,308 Householder 65 years and over......................
31,560 Persons living in households.............................
13,305 Other persons in group quarters.......................
12,536 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
3,258 Percent of total population...........................
0.5 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
50,575 Percent of total population...........................
7.3 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
3,123 Percent of total population...........................
1,533 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
5,252 Percent of total population...........................
0.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** South Dakota Total housing units...................................
292,436 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
33,402 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
8,391 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
2.34 Units with over 1 person per room........................
7,660 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
5,249 2 to 4 units.............................................
19,166 5 to 9 units.............................................
10,003 10 or more units.........................................
21,642 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
34,210 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
45,200 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
242 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
987 Percent of occupied units..........................
12,053 Percent of occupied units..........................
4.7 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
712 Percent of occupied units..........................
435 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
1,321 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Tennessee Total population......................................
2,528,257 AGE Under 5 years............................................
333,415 5 to 17 years............................................
883,189 18 to 20 years...........................................
238,948 21 to 24 years...........................................
288,707 25 to 44 years...........................................
1,553,309 45 to 54 years...........................................
526,210 55 to 59 years...........................................
220,952 60 to 64 years...........................................
213,637 65 to 74 years...........................................
357,423 75 to 84 years...........................................
202,601 85 years and over........................................
1,216,604 Percent of total population..............................
24.9 65 years and over...........................................
618,818 Percent of total population..............................
1,059,569 Percent of total households........................
55,751 Other family, female householder......................
505,706 Percent of total households........................
442,129 Householder 65 years and over......................
178,077 Persons living in households.............................
65,389 Other persons in group quarters.......................
63,740 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
778,035 Percent of total population...........................
16.0 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
10,039 Percent of total population...........................
31,839 Percent of total population...........................
9,204 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
32,741 Percent of total population...........................
0.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Tennessee Total housing units...................................
2,026,067 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
172,342 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
23,389 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
2.1 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
50,767 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
55,399 2 to 4 units.............................................
145,992 5 to 9 units.............................................
92,936 10 or more units.........................................
166,172 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
207,444 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
58,400 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
273 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
262,505 Percent of occupied units..........................
14.2 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
3,771 Percent of occupied units..........................
8,797 Percent of occupied units..........................
2,491 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
9,649 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Texas Total population......................................
8,620,547 AGE Under 5 years............................................
1,390,054 5 to 17 years............................................
3,445,785 18 to 20 years...........................................
836,698 21 to 24 years...........................................
1,054,146 25 to 44 years...........................................
5,625,196 45 to 54 years...........................................
1,628,634 55 to 59 years...........................................
661,590 60 to 64 years...........................................
627,831 65 to 74 years...........................................
998,239 75 to 84 years...........................................
551,732 85 years and over........................................
4,835,839 Percent of total population..............................
1,716,576 Percent of total population..............................
3,435,540 Percent of total households........................
206,512 Other family, female householder......................
1,727,059 Percent of total households........................
1,452,936 Householder 65 years and over......................
472,029 Persons living in households.............................
221,272 Other persons in group quarters.......................
172,175 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
2,021,632 Percent of total population...........................
11.9 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
65,877 Percent of total population...........................
319,459 Percent of total population...........................
1,804,780 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
4,339,905 Percent of total population...........................
25.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Texas Total housing units...................................
7,008,999 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
938,062 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
151,919 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
13.0 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.55 Units with over 1 person per room........................
494,578 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
215,201 2 to 4 units.............................................
390,675 5 to 9 units.............................................
343,049 10 or more units.........................................
1,040,600 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
630,661 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
59,600 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
328 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
684,255 Percent of occupied units..........................
11.3 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
23,482 Percent of occupied units..........................
91,141 Percent of occupied units..........................
471,134 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
1,158,010 Percent of occupied units..........................
19.1 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Utah Total population......................................
867,091 AGE Under 5 years............................................
169,633 5 to 17 years............................................
457,811 18 to 20 years...........................................
90,245 21 to 24 years...........................................
109,741 25 to 44 years...........................................
499,570 45 to 54 years...........................................
138,481 55 to 59 years...........................................
54,930 60 to 64 years...........................................
52,481 65 to 74 years...........................................
88,187 75 to 84 years...........................................
48,160 85 years and over........................................
627,444 Percent of total population..............................
36.4 65 years and over...........................................
149,958 Percent of total population..............................
8.7 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
348,029 Percent of total households........................
64.8 Other family, male householder........................
13,756 Other family, female householder......................
126,411 Percent of total households........................
101,640 Householder 65 years and over......................
38,320 Persons living in households.............................
3.15 GROUP QUARTERS Persons living in group quarters.........................
12,739 Other persons in group quarters.......................
16,309 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
11,576 Percent of total population...........................
0.7 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
24,283 Percent of total population...........................
33,371 Percent of total population...........................
37,775 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
84,597 Percent of total population...........................
4.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Utah Total housing units...................................
598,388 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
61,115 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
21,023 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
8.6 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
3.38 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
2.67 Units with over 1 person per room........................
29,577 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
23,702 2 to 4 units.............................................
57,715 5 to 9 units.............................................
20,503 10 or more units.........................................
62,050 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
41,044 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
68,900 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
300 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
3,770 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.7 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
5,841 Percent of occupied units..........................
8,582 Percent of occupied units..........................
10,676 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
22,720 Percent of occupied units..........................
4.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Vermont Total population....................................
287,266 AGE Under 5 years............................................
41,261 5 to 17 years............................................
101,822 18 to 20 years...........................................
29,671 21 to 24 years...........................................
33,495 25 to 44 years...........................................
187,689 45 to 54 years...........................................
57,389 55 to 59 years...........................................
22,787 60 to 64 years...........................................
22,481 65 to 74 years...........................................
37,072 75 to 84 years...........................................
21,568 85 years and over........................................
143,083 Percent of total population..............................
25.4 65 years and over...........................................
66,163 Percent of total population..............................
11.8 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
118,905 Percent of total households........................
6,630 Other family, female householder......................
65,755 Percent of total households........................
49,366 Householder 65 years and over......................
19,648 Persons living in households.............................
6,161 Other persons in group quarters.......................
15,481 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
1,951 Percent of total population...........................
1,696 Percent of total population...........................
3,215 Percent of total population...........................
808 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
3,661 Percent of total population...........................
0.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Vermont Total housing units.................................
271,214 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
60,564 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
45,405 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
2.22 Units with over 1 person per room........................
3,595 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
9,367 2 to 4 units.............................................
40,864 5 to 9 units.............................................
13,742 10 or more units.........................................
10,376 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
28,593 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
95,500 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
378 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
557 Percent of occupied units..........................
591 Percent of occupied units..........................
718 Percent of occupied units..........................
177 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
1,147 Percent of occupied units..........................
210,650 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Virginia Total population......................................
3,153,384 AGE Under 5 years............................................
443,155 5 to 17 years............................................
1,061,583 18 to 20 years...........................................
308,105 21 to 24 years...........................................
411,626 25 to 44 years...........................................
2,132,444 45 to 54 years...........................................
663,332 55 to 59 years...........................................
257,207 60 to 64 years...........................................
245,436 65 to 74 years...........................................
400,622 75 to 84 years...........................................
204,139 85 years and over........................................
1,504,738 Percent of total population..............................
664,470 Percent of total population..............................
10.7 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
1,302,219 Percent of total households........................
56.8 Other family, male householder........................
72,165 Other family, female householder......................
662,340 Percent of total households........................
523,770 Householder 65 years and over......................
178,575 Persons living in households.............................
84,292 Other persons in group quarters.......................
125,008 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
1,162,994 Percent of total population...........................
18.8 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
15,282 Percent of total population...........................
159,053 Percent of total population...........................
58,290 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
160,288 Percent of total population...........................
2.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Virginia Total housing units...................................
2,496,334 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
204,504 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
41,742 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
8.1 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.43 Units with over 1 person per room........................
65,042 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
216,199 2 to 4 units.............................................
143,530 5 to 9 units.............................................
135,833 10 or more units.........................................
286,815 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
182,100 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
91,000 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
411 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
391,280 Percent of occupied units..........................
17.1 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
5,505 Percent of occupied units..........................
41,199 Percent of occupied units..........................
14,521 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
43,756 Percent of occupied units..........................
1.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Washington Total population......................................
2,452,945 AGE Under 5 years............................................
366,780 5 to 17 years............................................
894,607 18 to 20 years...........................................
210,809 21 to 24 years...........................................
277,730 25 to 44 years...........................................
1,658,951 45 to 54 years...........................................
501,543 55 to 59 years...........................................
191,602 60 to 64 years...........................................
189,382 65 to 74 years...........................................
336,034 75 to 84 years...........................................
182,953 85 years and over........................................
1,261,387 Percent of total population..............................
575,288 Percent of total population..............................
1,029,267 Percent of total households........................
55.0 Other family, male householder........................
60,145 Other family, female householder......................
607,497 Percent of total households........................
476,320 Householder 65 years and over......................
162,520 Persons living in households.............................
55,313 Other persons in group quarters.......................
65,218 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
149,801 Percent of total population...........................
3.1 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
81,483 Percent of total population...........................
1.7 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
210,958 Percent of total population...........................
115,513 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
214,570 Percent of total population...........................
4.4 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Washington Total housing units...................................
2,032,378 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
159,947 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
55,832 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
5.8 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.68 Persons per renter-occupied unit.........................
72,798 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
48,086 2 to 4 units.............................................
138,785 5 to 9 units.............................................
91,003 10 or more units.........................................
274,586 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
207,197 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
93,400 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
383 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
51,645 Percent of occupied units..........................
2.8 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
24,699 Percent of occupied units..........................
1.3 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
59,205 Percent of occupied units..........................
28,659 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
55,706 Percent of occupied units..........................
3.0 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** West Virginia Total population......................................
931,941 AGE Under 5 years............................................
106,659 5 to 17 years............................................
336,918 18 to 20 years...........................................
87,263 21 to 24 years...........................................
92,728 25 to 44 years...........................................
532,807 45 to 54 years...........................................
191,318 55 to 59 years...........................................
85,265 60 to 64 years...........................................
91,622 65 to 74 years...........................................
155,743 75 to 84 years...........................................
87,703 85 years and over........................................
443,577 Percent of total population..............................
268,897 Percent of total population..............................
406,105 Percent of total households........................
59.0 Other family, male householder........................
20,627 Other family, female householder......................
188,298 Percent of total households........................
168,735 Householder 65 years and over......................
84,405 Persons living in households.............................
19,469 Other persons in group quarters.......................
17,442 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
56,295 Percent of total population...........................
2,458 Percent of total population...........................
7,459 Percent of total population...........................
1,742 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
8,489 Percent of total population...........................
0.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** West Virginia Total housing units...................................
781,295 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
92,738 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
22,403 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
10.1 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
13,123 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
11,415 2 to 4 units.............................................
46,445 5 to 9 units.............................................
20,179 10 or more units.........................................
28,923 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
128,168 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
47,900 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
221 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
20,941 Percent of occupied units..........................
3.0 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
965 Percent of occupied units..........................
2,147 Percent of occupied units..........................
404 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
2,785 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.4 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Wisconsin Total population......................................
2,498,834 AGE Under 5 years............................................
360,730 5 to 17 years............................................
928,252 18 to 20 years...........................................
225,390 21 to 24 years...........................................
286,936 25 to 44 years...........................................
1,546,832 45 to 54 years...........................................
478,882 55 to 59 years...........................................
204,647 60 to 64 years...........................................
208,879 65 to 74 years...........................................
358,419 75 to 84 years...........................................
218,509 85 years and over........................................
1,288,982 Percent of total population..............................
651,221 Percent of total population..............................
1,048,010 Percent of total households........................
57.5 Other family, male householder........................
52,632 Other family, female householder......................
546,946 Percent of total households........................
443,673 Householder 65 years and over......................
192,072 Persons living in households.............................
71,288 Other persons in group quarters.......................
62,310 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
244,539 Percent of total population...........................
39,387 Percent of total population...........................
53,583 Percent of total population...........................
41,737 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
93,194 Percent of total population...........................
1.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Wisconsin Total housing units...................................
2,055,774 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
233,656 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
150,601 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
1.2 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
4.7 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
2.26 Units with over 1 person per room........................
38,340 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
50,380 2 to 4 units.............................................
277,221 5 to 9 units.............................................
81,331 10 or more units.........................................
175,285 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
129,327 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
62,500 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
331 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
75,441 Percent of occupied units..........................
4.1 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut.....................
11,515 Percent of occupied units..........................
0.6 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
12,284 Percent of occupied units..........................
10,661 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
24,165 Percent of occupied units..........................
1.3 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Wyoming Total population......................................
226,581 AGE Under 5 years............................................
34,780 5 to 17 years............................................
100,745 18 to 20 years...........................................
20,025 21 to 24 years...........................................
21,361 25 to 44 years...........................................
148,495 45 to 54 years...........................................
45,497 55 to 59 years...........................................
17,893 60 to 64 years...........................................
17,597 65 to 74 years...........................................
27,759 75 to 84 years...........................................
14,886 85 years and over........................................
135,525 Percent of total population..............................
29.9 65 years and over...........................................
47,195 Percent of total population..............................
10.4 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
100,800 Percent of total households........................
5,035 Other family, female householder......................
49,014 Percent of total households........................
41,287 Householder 65 years and over......................
14,431 Persons living in households.............................
5,434 Other persons in group quarters.......................
4,806 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
3,606 Percent of total population...........................
0.8 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
9,479 Percent of total population...........................
2.1 Asian or Pacific Islander................................
2,806 Percent of total population...........................
10,636 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
25,751 Percent of total population...........................
5.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Wyoming Total housing units...................................
203,411 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
34,572 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
9,468 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
3.9 Rental vacancy rate (percent).............................
14.4 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
4,702 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
6,212 2 to 4 units.............................................
15,645 5 to 9 units.............................................
6,084 10 or more units.........................................
10,418 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
35,855 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
61,600 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
270 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN OF HOUSEHOLDER Occupied housing units...................................
1,208 Percent of occupied units..........................
2,630 Percent of occupied units..........................
1.6 Asian or Pacific Islander.............................
772 Percent of occupied units..........................
3,350 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
7,662 Percent of occupied units..........................
And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to his offering: 01:004:005 But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect.
And he said, Behold, in the tent. 01:018:010 And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the time of life; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son.
At the time appointed I will return unto thee, according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son. 01:018:015 Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was afraid.
And he said, If I find there forty and five, I will not destroy it. 01:018:029 And he spake unto him yet again, and said, Peradventure there shall be forty found there.
And he said, I will not do it for forty's sake. 01:018:030 And he said unto him, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will speak: Peradventure there shall thirty be found there.
And he said, I will not do it, if I find thirty there. 01:018:031 And he said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the LORD: Peradventure there shall be twenty found there.
And he said, I will not destroy it for twenty's sake. 01:018:032 And he said, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will speak yet but this once: Peradventure ten shall be found there.
And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim. 01:025:004 And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abidah, and Eldaah.
And he said, I am. 01:027:025 And he said, Bring it near to me, and I will eat of my son's venison, that my soul may bless thee.
And they said, Of Haran are we. 01:029:005 And he said unto them, Know ye Laban the son of Nahor?
And they said, We know him. 01:029:006 And he said unto them, Is he well?
For Jacob knew not that Rachel had stolen them. 01:031:033 And Laban went into Jacob's tent, and into Leah's tent, and into the two maidservants' tents; but he found them not.
Then went he out of Leah's tent, and entered into Rachel's tent. 01:031:034 Now Rachel had taken the images, and put them in the camel's furniture, and sat upon them.
And he said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me. 01:032:027 And he said unto him, What is thy name?
And she said, Wilt thou give me a pledge, till thou send it? 01:038:018 And he said, What pledge shall I give thee?
And Joseph went out over all the land of Egypt. 01:041:046 And Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt.
Is he yet alive? 01:043:028 And they answered, Thy servant our father is in good health, he is yet alive.
And they bowed down their heads, and made obeisance. 01:043:029 And he lifted up his eyes, and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother's son, and said, Is this your younger brother, of whom ye spake unto me?
And his brethren could not answer him; for they were troubled at his presence. 01:045:004 And Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you.
And he said, I will do as thou hast said. 01:047:031 And he said, Swear unto me.
And he said, Bring them, I pray thee, unto me, and I will bless them. 01:048:010 Now the eyes of Israel were dim for age, so that he could not see.
And they built for Pharaoh treasure cities, Pithom and Raamses. 02:001:012 But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and grew.
And the maid went and called the child's mother. 02:002:009 And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Take this child away, and nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages.
And the woman took the child, and nursed it. 02:002:010 And the child grew, and she brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son.
And he said, A rod. 02:004:003 And he said, Cast it on the ground.
And he cast it on the ground, and it became a serpent; and Moses fled from before it. 02:004:004 And the LORD said unto Moses, Put forth thine hand, and take it by the tail.
And he put his hand into his bosom: and when he took it out, behold, his hand was leprous as snow. 02:004:007 And he said, Put thine hand into thy bosom again.
I know that he can speak well.
Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my last end be like his! 04:023:011 And Balak said unto Balaam, What hast thou done unto me?
And when ye had girded on every man his weapons of war, ye were ready to go up into the hill. 05:001:042 And the LORD said unto me, Say unto them.
And all the people shall answer and say, Amen. 05:027:016 Cursed be he that setteth light by his father or his mother. And all the people shall say, Amen. 05:027:017 Cursed be he that removeth his neighbour's landmark.
And all the people shall say, Amen. 05:027:020 Cursed be he that lieth with his father's wife; because he uncovereth his father's skirt.
And all the people shall say, Amen. 05:027:021 Cursed be he that lieth with any manner of beast.
And all the people shall say, Amen. 05:027:022 Cursed be he that lieth with his sister, the daughter of his father, or the daughter of his mother.
And all the people shall say, Amen. 05:027:023 Cursed be he that lieth with his mother in law.
And all the people shall say, Amen. 05:027:024 Cursed be he that smiteth his neighbour secretly.
And all Israel stoned him with stones, and burned them with fire, after they had stoned them with stones. 06:007:026 And they raised over him a great heap of stones unto this day.
Now their cities were Gibeon, and Chephirah, and Beeroth, and Kirjathjearim. 06:009:018 And the children of Israel smote them not, because the princes of the congregation had sworn unto them by the LORD God of Israel.
And all that stood by him went out from him. 07:003:020 And Ehud came unto him; and he was sitting in a summer parlour, which he had for himself alone.
And Ehud said, I have a message from God unto thee.
And when he had turned in unto her into the tent, she covered him with a mantle. 07:004:019 And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water to drink; for I am thirsty.
So he died. 07:004:022 And, behold, as Barak pursued Sisera, Jael came out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will shew thee the man whom thou seekest.
For the divisions of Reuben there were great thoughts of heart. 07:005:016 Why abodest thou among the sheepfolds, to hear the bleatings of the flocks?
And they did chide with him sharply. 07:008:002 And he said unto them, What have I done now in comparison of you?
Is not the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiezer? 07:008:003 God hath delivered into your hands the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb: and what was I able to do in comparison of you?
If he said, Nay; 07:012:006 Then said they unto him, Say now Shibboleth: and he said Sibboleth: for he could not frame to pronounce it right.
Then they took him, and slew him at the passages of Jordan: and there fell at that time of the Ephraimites forty and two thousand. 07:012:007 And Jephthah judged Israel six years.
And Manoah and his wife looked on it, and fell on their faces to the ground. 07:013:021 But the angel of the LORD did no more appear to Manoah and to his wife.
And they said unto him, Put forth thy riddle, that we may hear it. 07:014:014 And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth meat, and out of the strong came forth sweetness.
And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them. 07:015:012 And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines.
And she said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he brake the withs, as a thread of tow is broken when it toucheth the fire.
And he brake them from off his arms like a thread. 07:016:013 And Delilah said unto Samson, Hitherto thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: tell me wherewith thou mightest be bound.
And he said unto her, If thou weavest the seven locks of my head with the web. 07:016:014 And she fastened it with the pin, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson.
And he said, Let it not be known that a woman came into the floor. 08:003:015 Also he said, Bring the vail that thou hast upon thee, and hold it.
And when she held it, he measured six measures of barley, and laid it on her: and she went into the city. 08:003:016 And when she came to her mother in law, she said, Who art thou, my daughter?
And he turned aside, and sat down. 08:004:002 And he took ten men of the elders of the city, and said, Sit ye down here.
And he said, I called not; lie down again.
And he went and lay down. 09:003:006 And the LORD called yet again, Samuel.
And Eli perceived that the LORD had called the child. 09:003:009 Therefore Eli said unto Samuel, Go, lie down: and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, LORD; for thy servant heareth.
So Samuel went and lay down in his place. 09:003:010 And the LORD came, and stood, and called as at other times, Samuel, Samuel.
And Samuel feared to shew Eli the vision. 09:003:016 Then Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my son.
And he answered, Here am I. 09:003:017 And he said, What is the thing that the LORD hath said unto thee?
And they understood that the ark of the LORD was come into the camp. 09:004:007 And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, God is come into the camp.
And when the man came into the city, and told it, all the city cried out. 09:004:014 And when Eli heard the noise of the crying, he said, What meaneth the noise of this tumult?
And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpeh. 09:007:007 And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mizpeh, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel.
Is Saul also among the prophets? 09:010:012 And one of the same place answered and said, But who is their father?
And all the people shouted, and said, God save the king. 09:010:025 Then Samuel told the people the manner of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before the LORD.
And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear. 09:013:004 And all Israel heard say that Saul had smitten a garrison of the Philistines, and that Israel also was had in abomination with the Philistines.
And when they had numbered, behold, Jonathan and his armourbearer were not there. 09:014:018 And Saul said unto Ahiah, Bring hither the ark of God.
Then said the priest, Let us draw near hither unto God. 09:014:037 And Saul asked counsel of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel?
But there was not a man among all the people that answered him. 09:014:040 Then said he unto all Israel, Be ye on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side.
And the people said unto Saul, Do what seemeth good unto thee. 09:014:041 Therefore Saul said unto the LORD God of Israel, Give a perfect lot.
And Saul and Jonathan were taken: but the people escaped. 09:014:042 And Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son.
And Jonathan was taken. 09:014:043 Then Saul said to Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done.
Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. 09:015:023 For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry.
And Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death is past. 09:015:033 And Samuel said, As the sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be childless among women.
And the elders of the town trembled at his coming, and said, Comest thou peaceably? 09:016:005 And he said, Peaceably: I am come to sacrifice unto the LORD: sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice.
I know thy pride, and the naughtiness of thine heart; for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle. 09:017:029 And David said, What have I now done?
And when the Philistines saw their champion was dead, they fled. 09:017:052 And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, and shouted, and pursued the Philistines, until thou come to the valley, and to the gates of Ekron.
And Michal answered Saul, He said unto me, Let me go; why should I kill thee? 09:019:018 So David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him.
And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they prophesied also. 09:019:022 Then went he also to Ramah, and came to a great well that is in Sechu: and he asked and said, Where are Samuel and David?
And the LORD said, He will come down. 09:023:012 Then said David, Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul?
And the LORD said, They will deliver thee up. 09:023:013 Then David and his men, which were about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went whithersoever they could go.
And it was told Saul that David was escaped from Keilah; and he forbare to go forth. 09:023:014 And David abode in the wilderness in strong holds, and remained in a mountain in the wilderness of Ziph.
But Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way. 09:024:008 David also arose afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king.
And Saul went home; but David and his men gat them up unto the hold. 09:025:001 And Samuel died; and all the Israelites were gathered together, and lamented him, and buried him in his house at Ramah.
As the LORD liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept your master, the LORD's anointed.
And now see where the king's spear is, and the cruse of water that was at his bolster. 09:026:017 And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David?
And Achish said unto David, Know thou assuredly, that thou shalt go out with me to battle, thou and thy men. 09:028:002 And David said to Achish, Surely thou shalt know what thy servant can do.
And Achish said to David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of mine head for ever. 09:028:003 Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city.
And the woman said unto Saul, I saw gods ascending out of the earth. 09:028:014 And he said unto her, What form is he of?
And Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and bowed himself. 09:028:015 And Samuel said to Saul, Why hast thou disquieted me, to bring me up?
And Abiathar brought thither the ephod to David. 09:030:008 And David enquired at the LORD, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? shall I overtake them?
And he said unto him, Out of the camp of Israel am I escaped. 10:001:004 And David said unto him, How went the matter?
I pray thee, tell me.
And I answered, Here am I. 10:001:008 And he said unto me, Who art thou?
And he answered, I am. 10:002:021 And Abner said to him, Turn thee aside to thy right hand or to thy left, and lay thee hold on one of the young men, and take thee his armour.
Then said Abner unto him, Go, return.
So all the people departed every one to his house. 10:006:020 Then David returned to bless his household.
And he said, Thy servant is he. 10:009:003 And the king said, Is there not yet any of the house of Saul, that I may shew the kindness of God unto him?
And Ziba said unto the king, Jonathan hath yet a son, which is lame on his feet. 10:009:004 And the king said unto him, Where is he?
Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants. 10:009:011 Then said Ziba unto the king, According to all that my lord the king hath commanded his servant, so shall thy servant do.
As for Mephibosheth, said the king, he shall eat at my table, as one of the king's sons. 10:009:012 And Mephibosheth had a young son, whose name was Micha.
But the thing that David had done displeased the LORD. 10:012:001 And the LORD sent Nathan unto David.
And she took flour, and kneaded it, and made cakes in his sight, and did bake the cakes. 10:013:009 And she took a pan, and poured them out before him; but he refused to eat.
And they went out every man from him. 10:013:010 And Amnon said unto Tamar, Bring the meat into the chamber, that I may eat of thine hand.
And Amnon said unto her, Arise, be gone. 10:013:016 And she said unto him, There is no cause: this evil in sending me away is greater than the other that thou didst unto me.
And he pressed him: howbeit he would not go, but blessed him. 10:013:026 Then said Absalom, If not, I pray thee, let my brother Amnon go with us.
And he said, As the LORD liveth, there shall not one hair of thy son fall to the earth. 10:014:012 Then the woman said, Let thine handmaid, I pray thee, speak one word unto my lord the king.
And the woman said, Let my lord the king now speak. 10:014:019 And the king said, Is not the hand of Joab with thee in all this?
And Cushi bowed himself unto Joab, and ran. 10:018:022 Then said Ahimaaz the son of Zadok yet again to Joab, But howsoever, let me, I pray thee, also run after Cushi.
And Joab said, Wherefore wilt thou run, my son, seeing that thou hast no tidings ready? 10:018:023 But howsoever, said he, let me run.
And he came apace, and drew near. 10:018:026 And the watchman saw another man running: and the watchman called unto the porter, and said, Behold another man running alone.
And the king said, He also bringeth tidings. 10:018:027 And the watchman said, Me thinketh the running of the foremost is like the running of Ahimaaz the son of Zadok.
And the king said, He is a good man, and cometh with good tidings. 10:018:028 And Ahimaaz called, and said unto the king, All is well.
And Ahimaaz answered, When Joab sent the king's servant, and me thy servant, I saw a great tumult, but I knew not what it was. 10:018:030 And the king said unto him, Turn aside, and stand here.
What right therefore have I yet to cry any more unto the king? 10:019:029 And the king said unto him, Why speakest thou any more of thy matters?
And the woman said unto Joab, Behold, his head shall be thrown to thee over the wall. 10:020:022 Then the woman went unto all the people in her wisdom.
And they cut off the head of Sheba the son of Bichri, and cast it out to Joab.
And he blew a trumpet, and they retired from the city, every man to his tent.
These things did these three mighty men. 10:023:018 And Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was chief among three.
So David bought the threshingfloor and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver. 10:024:025 And David built there an altar unto the LORD, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings.
And he said, Peaceably. 11:002:014 He said moreover, I have somewhat to say unto thee.
Then Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, saying, Go, fall upon him. 11:002:030 And Benaiah came to the tabernacle of the LORD, and said unto him, Thus saith the king, Come forth.
And Shimei dwelt in Jerusalem many days. 11:002:039 And it came to pass at the end of three years, that two of the servants of Shimei ran away unto Achish son of Maachah king of Gath.
For his sons had seen what way the man of God went, which came from Judah. 11:013:013 And he said unto his sons, Saddle me the ass.
So they saddled him the ass: and he rode thereon, 11:013:014 And went after the man of God, and found him sitting under an oak: and he said unto him, Art thou the man of God that camest from Judah?
And they did it the second time.
And he said, Do it the third time.
And Elijah went up to the top of Carmel; and he cast himself down upon the earth, and put his face between his knees, 11:018:043 And said to his servant, Go up now, look toward the sea.
And he said, Is he yet alive? he is my brother. 11:020:033 Now the men did diligently observe whether any thing would come from him, and did hastily catch it: and they said, Thy brother Benhadad.
So he made a covenant with him, and sent him away. 11:020:035 And a certain man of the sons of the prophets said unto his neighbour in the word of the LORD, Smite me, I pray thee.
And the man refused to smite him. 11:020:036 Then said he unto him, Because thou hast not obeyed the voice of the LORD, behold, as soon as thou art departed from me, a lion shall slay thee.
And one said on this manner, and another said on that manner. 11:022:021 And there came forth a spirit, and stood before the LORD, and said, I will persuade him. 11:022:022 And the LORD said unto him, Wherewith?
And he said, I will go forth, and I will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.
And he said, It is Elijah the Tishbite. 12:001:009 Then the king sent unto him a captain of fifty with his fifty.
And there came down fire from heaven, and consumed him and his fifty. 12:001:011 Again also he sent unto him another captain of fifty with his fifty.
So they went down to Bethel. 12:002:003 And the sons of the prophets that were at Bethel came forth to Elisha, and said unto him, Knowest thou that the LORD will take away thy master from thy head to day?
And he said, Yea, I know it; hold ye your peace. 12:002:004 And Elijah said unto him, Elisha, tarry here, I pray thee; for the LORD hath sent me to Jericho.
So they came to Jericho. 12:002:005 And the sons of the prophets that were at Jericho came to Elisha, and said unto him, Knowest thou that the LORD will take away thy master from thy head to day?
And he answered, Yea, I know it; hold ye your peace. 12:002:006 And Elijah said unto him, Tarry, I pray thee, here; for the LORD hath sent me to Jordan.
And he said, I will go up: I am as thou art, my people as thy people, and my horses as thy horses. 12:003:008 And he said, Which way shall we go up?
And one of the king of Israel's servants answered and said, Here is Elisha the son of Shaphat, which poured water on the hands of Elijah. 12:003:012 And Jehoshaphat said, The word of the LORD is with him.
And the oil stayed. 12:004:007 Then she came and told the man of God.
And Gehazi answered, Verily she hath no child, and her husband is old. 12:004:015 And he said, Call her.
And when he had called her, she stood in the door. 12:004:016 And he said, About this season, according to the time of life, thou shalt embrace a son.
And they could not eat thereof. 12:004:041 But he said, Then bring meal.
And there was no harm in the pot. 12:004:042 And there came a man from Baalshalisha, and brought the man of God bread of the firstfruits, twenty loaves of barley, and full ears of corn in the husk thereof.
And he said, Give unto the people, that they may eat. 12:004:043 And his servitor said, What, should I set this before an hundred men?
And when Naaman saw him running after him, he lighted down from the chariot to meet him, and said, Is all well? 12:005:022 And he said, All is well.
And he said, Thy servant went no whither. 12:005:026 And he said unto him, Went not mine heart with thee, when the man turned again from his chariot to meet thee?
Is it a time to receive money, and to receive garments, and oliveyards, and vineyards, and sheep, and oxen, and menservants, and maidservants? 12:005:027 The leprosy therefore of Naaman shall cleave unto thee, and unto thy seed for ever.
And he answered, Go ye. 12:006:003 And one said, Be content, I pray thee, and go with thy servants.
And he answered, I will go. 12:006:004 So he went with them.
And he shewed him the place.
And he cut down a stick, and cast it in thither; and the iron did swim. 12:006:007 Therefore said he, Take it up to thee.
And the messengers returned, and told the king. 12:007:016 And the people went out, and spoiled the tents of the Syrians.
And Gehazi said, My lord, O king, this is the woman, and this is her son, whom Elisha restored to life. 12:008:006 And when the king asked the woman, she told him.
And Elisha answered, The LORD hath shewed me that thou shalt be king over Syria. 12:008:014 So he departed from Elisha, and came to his master; who said to him, What said Elisha to thee?
And he opened the door, and fled. 12:009:011 Then Jehu came forth to the servants of his lord: and one said unto him, Is all well? wherefore came this mad fellow to thee?
And he said unto them, Ye know the man, and his communication. 12:009:012 And they said, It is false; tell us now.
And Ahaziah king of Judah was come down to see Joram. 12:009:017 And there stood a watchman on the tower in Jezreel, and he spied the company of Jehu as he came, and said, I see a company.
And Joram said, Take an horseman, and send to meet them, and let him say, Is it peace? 12:009:018 So there went one on horseback to meet him, and said, Thus saith the king, Is it peace?
And the watchman told, saying, The messenger came to them, but he cometh not again. 12:009:019 Then he sent out a second on horseback, which came to them, and said, Thus saith the king, Is it peace?
Now therefore take and cast him into the plat of ground, according to the word of the LORD. 12:009:027 But when Ahaziah the king of Judah saw this, he fled by the way of the garden house.
And they did so at the going up to Gur, which is by Ibleam.
And there looked out to him two or three eunuchs. 12:009:033 And he said, Throw her down.
And as he was at the shearing house in the way, 12:010:013 Jehu met with the brethren of Ahaziah king of Judah, and said, Who are ye?
And they answered, We are the brethren of Ahaziah; and we go down to salute the children of the king and the children of the queen. 12:010:014 And he said, Take them alive.
And he gave him his hand; and he took him up to him into the chariot. 12:010:016 And he said, Come with me, and see my zeal for the LORD.
And they proclaimed it. 12:010:021 And Jehu sent through all Israel: and all the worshippers of Baal came, so that there was not a man left that came not.
And they came into the house of Baal; and the house of Baal was full from one end to another. 12:010:022 And he said unto him that was over the vestry, Bring forth vestments for all the worshippers of Baal.
And he took unto him bow and arrows. 12:013:016 And he said to the king of Israel, Put thine hand upon the bow.
And he put his hand upon it: and Elisha put his hands upon the king's hands. 12:013:017 And he said, Open the window eastward.
And he opened it. Then Elisha said, Shoot.
And he said, The arrow of the LORD's deliverance, and the arrow of deliverance from Syria: for thou shalt smite the Syrians in Aphek, till thou have consumed them. 12:013:018 And he said, Take the arrows.
And Esarhaddon his son reigned in his stead. 12:020:001 In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death.
And Hezekiah said, They are come from a far country, even from Babylon. 12:020:015 And he said, What have they seen in thine house?
These are the sons of Ishmael. 13:001:032 Now the sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she bare Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah.
And the sons of Jokshan; Sheba, and Dedan. 13:001:033 And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Henoch, and Abida, and Eldaah.
All these are the sons of Keturah. 13:001:034 And Abraham begat Isaac.
And the sons of Dishon; Amram, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran. 13:001:042 The sons of Ezer; Bilhan, and Zavan, and Jakan.
And the dukes of Edom were; duke Timnah, duke Aliah, duke Jetheth, 13:001:052 Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah, duke Pinon, 13:001:053 Duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar, 13:001:054 Duke Magdiel, duke Iram.
And Er, the firstborn of Judah, was evil in the sight of the LORD; and he slew him. 13:002:004 And Tamar his daughter in law bore him Pharez and Zerah.
And the sons of Ishi; Sheshan. And the children of Sheshan; Ahlai. 13:002:032 And the sons of Jada the brother of Shammai; Jether, and Jonathan: and Jether died without children. 13:002:033 And the sons of Jonathan; Peleth, and Zaza.
These were the sons of Jerahmeel. 13:002:034 Now Sheshan had no sons, but daughters.
These are the sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephratah, the father of Bethlehem. 13:004:005 And Ashur the father of Tekoa had two wives, Helah and Naarah. 13:004:006 And Naarah bare him Ahuzam, and Hepher, and Temeni, and Haahashtari.
And God granted him that which he requested. 13:004:011 And Chelub the brother of Shuah begat Mehir, which was the father of Eshton. 13:004:012 And Eshton begat Bethrapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah the father of Irnahash.
These were their cities unto the reign of David. 13:004:032 And their villages were, Etam, and Ain, Rimmon, and Tochen, and Ashan, five cities: 13:004:033 And all their villages that were round about the same cities, unto Baal.
Nevertheless David took the castle of Zion, which is the city of David. 13:011:006 And David said, Whosoever smiteth the Jebusites first shall be chief and captain.
And David heard of it, and went out against them. 13:014:009 And the Philistines came and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim. 13:014:010 And David enquired of God, saying, Shall I go up against the Philistines?
Moreover I will subdue all thine enemies.
And he sent to meet them: for the men were greatly ashamed.
Herein thou hast done foolishly: therefore from henceforth thou shalt have wars. 14:016:010 Then Asa was wroth with the seer, and put him in a prison house; for he was in a rage with him because of this thing.
And one spake saying after this manner, and another saying after that manner. 14:018:020 Then there came out a spirit, and stood before the LORD, and said, I will entice him.
And the LORD said unto him, Wherewith? 14:018:021 And he said, I will go out, and be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.
And the ships were broken, that they were not able to go to Tarshish. 14:021:001 Now Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David.
And his people made no burning for him, like the burning of his fathers. 14:021:020 Thirty and two years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem eight years, and departed without being desired.
So Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah reigned. 14:022:002 Forty and two years old was Ahaziah when he began to reign, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem.
And Amaziah his son reigned in his stead. 14:025:001 Amaziah was twenty and five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem.
And the king granted me, according to the good hand of my God upon me. 16:002:009 Then I came to the governors beyond the river, and gave them the king's letters.
After him repaired also Shemaiah the son of Shechaniah, the keeper of the east gate. 16:003:030 After him repaired Hananiah the son of Shelemiah, and Hanun the sixth son of Zalaph, another piece.
And there was very great gladness. 16:008:018 Also day by day, from the first day unto the last day, he read in the book of the law of God.
From that time forth came they no more on the sabbath. 16:013:022 And I commanded the Levites that they should cleanse themselves, and that they should come and keep the gates, to sanctify the sabbath day.
Then said the king's servants that ministered unto him, There is nothing done for him. 17:006:004 And the king said, Who is in the court?
And the king said, Let him come in. 17:006:006 So Haman came in. And the king said unto him, What shall be done unto the man whom the king delighteth to honour?
But Haman hasted to his house mourning, and having his head covered. 17:006:013 And Haman told Zeresh his wife and all his friends every thing that had befallen him.
Then the king said, Hang him thereon. 17:007:010 So they hanged Haman on the gallows that he had prepared for Mordecai.
Then was the king's wrath pacified. 17:008:001 On that day did the king Ahasuerus give the house of Haman the Jews' enemy unto Esther the queen.
And Mordecai came before the king; for Esther had told what he was unto her. 17:008:002 And the king took off his ring, which he had taken from Haman, and gave it unto Mordecai.
Thus did Job continually. 18:001:006 Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the LORD, and Satan came also among them. 18:001:007 And the LORD said unto Satan, Whence comest thou?
I am full of confusion; therefore see thou mine affliction; 18:010:016 For it increaseth.
Selah. 19:003:003 But thou, O LORD, art a shield for me; my glory, and the lifter up of mine head. 19:003:004 I cried unto the LORD with my voice, and he heard me out of his holy hill.
Selah. 19:004:005 Offer the sacrifices of righteousness, and put your trust in the LORD. 19:004:006 There be many that say, Who will shew us any good?
He that sweareth to his own hurt, and changeth not. 19:015:005 He that putteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward against the innocent.
Selah. 19:024:007 Lift up your heads, O ye gates; and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in. 19:024:008 Who is this King of glory?
The LORD strong and mighty, the LORD mighty in battle. 19:024:009 Lift up your heads, O ye gates; even lift them up, ye everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in. 19:024:010 Who is this King of glory?
Selah. 19:032:005 I acknowledge my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid.
I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the LORD; and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin.
Selah. 19:084:009 Behold, O God our shield, and look upon the face of thine anointed. 19:084:010 For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand.
Praise ye the LORD. 19:117:001 O praise the LORD, all ye nations: praise him, all ye people. 19:117:002 For his merciful kindness is great toward us: and the truth of the LORD endureth for ever.
Praise ye the LORD. 19:148:001 Praise ye the LORD.
Praise ye the LORD. 19:150:001 Praise ye the LORD.
As whirlwinds in the south pass through; so it cometh from the desert, from a terrible land. 23:021:002 A grievous vision is declared unto me; the treacherous dealer dealeth treacherously, and the spoiler spoileth.
Watchman, what of the night? 23:021:012 The watchman said, The morning cometh, and also the night: if ye will enquire, enquire ye: return, come. 23:021:013 The burden upon Arabia.
And Hezekiah said, They are come from a far country unto me, even from Babylon. 23:039:004 Then said he, What have they seen in thine house?
Behold, for your iniquities have ye sold yourselves, and for your transgressions is your mother put away. 23:050:002 Wherefore, when I came, was there no man? when I called, was there none to answer?
Woe unto us! for we are spoiled. 24:004:014 O Jerusalem, wash thine heart from wickedness, that thou mayest be saved.
But they said, We will not walk therein. 24:006:017 Also I set watchmen over you, saying, Hearken to the sound of the trumpet.
So Baruch the son of Neriah took the roll in his hand, and came unto them. 24:036:015 And they said unto him, Sit down now, and read it in our ears.
Then they began at the ancient men which were before the house. 26:009:007 And he said unto them, Defile the house, and fill the courts with the slain: go ye forth.
When the son hath done that which is lawful and right, and hath kept all my statutes, and hath done them, he shall surely live. 26:018:020 The soul that sinneth, it shall die.
O house of Israel, are not my ways equal? are not your ways unequal? 26:018:030 Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel, every one according to his ways, saith the Lord GOD.
And this is the north side. 26:047:018 And the east side ye shall measure from Hauran, and from Damascus, and from Gilead, and from the land of Israel by Jordan, from the border unto the east sea.
And this is the east side. 26:047:019 And the south side southward, from Tamar even to the waters of strife in Kadesh, the river to the great sea.
And this is the south side southward. 26:047:020 The west side also shall be the great sea from the border, till a man come over against Hamath.
And the priests answered and said, No. 37:002:013 Then said Haggai, If one that is unclean by a dead body touch any of these, shall it be unclean?
And he answered me, These are the horns which have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem. 38:001:020 And the LORD shewed me four carpenters. 38:001:021 Then said I, What come these to do?
And unto him he said, Behold, I have caused thine iniquity to pass from thee, and I will clothe thee with change of raiment. 38:003:005 And I said, Let them set a fair mitre upon his head.
So they weighed for my price thirty pieces of silver. 38:011:013 And the LORD said unto me, Cast it unto the potter: a goodly price that I was prised at of them.
And ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name? 39:001:007 Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar; and ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee?
Because the LORD hath been witness between thee and the wife of thy youth, against whom thou hast dealt treacherously: yet is she thy companion, and the wife of thy covenant. 39:002:015 And did not he make one?
Yet had he the residue of the spirit.
But ye said, Wherein shall we return? 39:003:008 Will a man rob God?
Ye cannot serve God and mammon. 40:006:025 Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on.
Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment? 40:006:026 Behold the fowls of the air: for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth them.
Are ye not much better than they? 40:006:027 Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his stature? 40:006:028 And why take ye thought for raiment?
A reed shaken with the wind? 40:011:008 But what went ye out for to see?
A man clothed in soft raiment? behold, they that wear soft clothing are in kings' houses. 40:011:009 But what went ye out for to see?
Wherefore it is lawful to do well on the sabbath days. 40:012:013 Then saith he to the man, Stretch forth thine hand.
Whence then hath this man all these things? 40:013:057 And they were offended in him.
And they were exceeding sorry. 40:017:024 And when they were come to Capernaum, they that received tribute money came to Peter, and said, Doth not your master pay tribute? 40:017:025 He saith, Yes.
She saith unto him, Grant that these my two sons may sit, the one on thy right hand, and the other on the left, in thy kingdom. 40:020:022 But Jesus answered and said, Ye know not what ye ask.
And he said unto them, Neither tell I you by what authority I do these things. 40:021:028 But what think ye?
And he answered and said, I go, sir: and went not. 40:021:031 Whether of them twain did the will of his father?
Is it lawful to give tribute unto Caesar, or not? 40:022:018 But Jesus perceived their wickedness, and said, Why tempt ye me, ye hypocrites? 40:022:019 Shew me the tribute money.
And they brought unto him a penny. 40:022:020 And he saith unto them, Whose is this image and superscription? 40:022:021 They say unto him, Caesar's.
I sat daily with you teaching in the temple, and ye laid no hold on me. 40:026:056 But all this was done, that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled.
And immediately the cock crew. 40:026:075 And Peter remembered the word of Jesus, which said unto him, Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice.
They said, Barabbas. 40:027:022 Pilate saith unto them, What shall I do then with Jesus which is called Christ?
They all say unto him, Let him be crucified. 40:027:023 And the governor said, Why, what evil hath he done?
If thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross. 40:027:041 Likewise also the chief priests mocking him, with the scribes and elders, said, 40:027:042 He saved others; himself he cannot save.
But they held their peace. 41:003:005 And when he had looked round about on them with anger, being grieved for the hardness of their hearts, he saith unto the man, Stretch forth thine hand.
I adjure thee by God, that thou torment me not. 41:005:008 For he said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit. 41:005:009 And he asked him, What is thy name?
And they say unto him, Shall we go and buy two hundred pennyworth of bread, and give them to eat? 41:006:038 He saith unto them, How many loaves have ye? go and see.
They say unto him, Twelve. 41:008:020 And when the seven among four thousand, how many baskets full of fragments took ye up?
The blind man said unto him, Lord, that I might receive my sight. 41:010:052 And Jesus said unto him, Go thy way; thy faith hath made thee whole.
And Jesus answering saith unto them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things. 41:012:001 And he began to speak unto them by parables.
But he, knowing their hypocrisy, said unto them, Why tempt ye me? bring me a penny, that I may see it. 41:012:016 And they brought it.
And they said unto him, Caesar's. 41:012:017 And Jesus answering said unto them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's.
And he went out into the porch; and the cock crew. 41:014:069 And a maid saw him again, and began to say to them that stood by, This is one of them. 41:014:070 And he denied it again.
I know thee who thou art; the Holy One of God. 42:004:035 And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of him.
And he said, Young man, I say unto thee, Arise. 42:007:015 And he that was dead sat up, and began to speak.
A reed shaken with the wind? 42:007:025 But what went ye out for to see?
Behold, they which are gorgeously apparelled, and live delicately, are in kings' courts. 42:007:026 But what went ye out for to see?
And he saith, Master, say on. 42:007:041 There was a certain creditor which had two debtors: the one owed five hundred pence, and the other fifty. 42:007:042 And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both.
Tell me therefore, which of them will love him most? 42:007:043 Simon answered and said, I suppose that he, to whom he forgave most.
And he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged. 42:007:044 And he turned to the woman, and said unto Simon, Seest thou this woman?
Then he arose, and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water: and they ceased, and there was a calm. 42:008:025 And he said unto them, Where is your faith?
I beseech thee, torment me not. 42:008:029 (For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man.
For oftentimes it had caught him: and he was kept bound with chains and in fetters; and he brake the bands, and was driven of the devil into the wilderness.) 42:008:030 And Jesus asked him, saying, What is thy name?
And he desired to see him. 42:009:010 And the apostles, when they were returned, told him all that they had done.
And they said, We have no more but five loaves and two fishes; except we should go and buy meat for all this people. 42:009:014 For they were about five thousand men.
Bring thy son hither. 42:009:042 And as he was yet a coming, the devil threw him down, and tare him.
And Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the child, and delivered him again to his father. 42:009:043 And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God.
Thy will be done, as in heaven, so in earth. 42:011:003 Give us day by day our daily bread. 42:011:004 And forgive us our sins; for we also forgive every one that is indebted to us.
And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and sit down quickly, and write fifty. 42:016:007 Then said he to another, And how much owest thou?
What therefore shall the lord of the vineyard do unto them? 42:020:016 He shall come and destroy these husbandmen, and shall give the vineyard to others.
And immediately, while he yet spake, the cock crew. 42:022:061 And the Lord turned, and looked upon Peter.
I have found no cause of death in him: I will therefore chastise him, and let him go. 42:023:023 And they were instant with loud voices, requiring that he might be crucified.
And they parted his raiment, and cast lots. 42:023:035 And the people stood beholding.
And he answered, No. 43:001:022 Then said they unto him, Who art thou? that we may give an answer to them that sent us.
They said unto him, Rabbi, (which is to say, being interpreted, Master,) where dwellest thou? 43:001:039 He saith unto them, Come and see.
Philip saith unto him, Come and see. 43:001:047 Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and saith of him, Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile! 43:001:048 Nathanael saith unto him, Whence knowest thou me?
And they filled them up to the brim. 43:002:008 And he saith unto them, Draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the feast.
When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father of it. 43:008:045 And because I tell you the truth, ye believe me not. 43:008:046 Which of you convinceth me of sin?
He said unto them, He put clay upon mine eyes, and I washed, and do see. 43:009:016 Therefore said some of the Pharisees, This man is not of God, because he keepeth not the sabbath day.
And there was a division among them. 43:009:017 They say unto the blind man again, What sayest thou of him, that he hath opened thine eyes?
It was a cave, and a stone lay upon it. 43:011:039 Jesus said, Take ye away the stone.
Father, save me from this hour: but for this cause came I unto this hour. 43:012:028 Father, glorify thy name.
Walk while ye have the light, lest darkness come upon you: for he that walketh in darkness knoweth not whither he goeth. 43:012:036 While ye have light, believe in the light, that ye may be the children of light.
And when he had dipped the sop, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. 43:013:027 And after the sop Satan entered into him.
Jesus answered him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now; but thou shalt follow me afterwards. 43:013:037 Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now?
Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. 43:014:028 Ye have heard how I said unto you, I go away, and come again unto you.
Jesus saith unto them, I am he.
And Judas also, which betrayed him, stood with them. 43:018:006 As soon then as he had said unto them, I am he, they went backward, and fell to the ground. 43:018:007 Then asked he them again, Whom seek ye?
Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice. 43:018:038 Pilate saith unto him, What is truth?
And Pilate saith unto them, Behold the man! 43:019:006 When the chief priests therefore and officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify him, crucify him.
Pilate saith unto them, Shall I crucify your King?
She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away. 43:020:016 Jesus saith unto her, Mary.
They answered him, No. 43:021:006 And he said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find.
They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes. 43:021:007 Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved saith unto Peter, It is the Lord.
He saith unto him, Feed my lambs. 43:021:016 He saith to him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me?
He saith unto him, Feed my sheep. 43:021:017 He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me?
And when he had said this, he fell asleep. 44:008:001 And Saul was consenting unto his death.
And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest: it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks. 44:009:006 And he trembling and astonished said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?
And on the morrow Peter went away with them, and certain brethren from Joppa accompanied him. 44:010:024 And the morrow after they entered into Caesarea.
And his chains fell off from his hands. 44:012:008 And the angel said unto him, Gird thyself, and bind on thy sandals.
But Paul, being grieved, turned and said to the spirit, I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her.
And they said unto him, We have not so much as heard whether there be any Holy Ghost. 44:019:003 And he said unto them, Unto what then were ye baptized?
He said, Yea. 44:022:028 And the chief captain answered, With a great sum obtained I this freedom.
And when he understood that he was of Cilicia; 44:023:035 I will hear thee, said he, when thine accusers are also come.
By what law? of works?
Nay: but by the law of faith. 45:003:028 Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law. 45:003:029 Is he the God of the Jews only? is he not also of the Gentiles?
Yes, of the Gentiles also: 45:003:030 Seeing it is one God, which shall justify the circumcision by faith, and uncircumcision through faith. 45:003:031 Do we then make void the law through faith?
But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound: 45:005:021 That as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord. 45:006:001 What shall we say then?
Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound? 45:006:002 God forbid.
Nay, I had not known sin, but by the law: for I had not known lust, except the law had said, Thou shalt not covet. 45:007:008 But sin, taking occasion by the commandment, wrought in me all manner of concupiscence.
It is God that justifieth. 45:008:034 Who is he that condemneth?
Amen. 45:009:006 Not as though the word of God hath taken none effect.
That the Gentiles, which followed not after righteousness, have attained to righteousness, even the righteousness which is of faith. 45:009:031 But Israel, which followed after the law of righteousness, hath not attained to the law of righteousness. 45:009:032 Wherefore?
For Esaias saith, Lord, who hath believed our report? 45:010:017 So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. 45:010:018 But I say, Have they not heard?
Yes verily, their sound went into all the earth, and their words unto the ends of the world. 45:010:019 But I say, Did not Israel know?
For I also am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. 45:011:002 God hath not cast away his people which he foreknew.
But if it be of works, then it is no more grace: otherwise work is no more work. 45:011:007 What then?
Be not wise in your own conceits. 45:012:017 Recompense to no man evil for evil.
Yea, he shall be holden up: for God is able to make him stand. 45:014:005 One man esteemeth one day above another: another esteemeth every day alike.
Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind. 45:014:006 He that regardeth the day, regardeth it unto the Lord; and he that regardeth not the day, to the Lord he doth not regard it.
Salute them which are of Aristobulus' household. 45:016:011 Salute Herodion my kinsman.
Greet them that be of the household of Narcissus, which are in the Lord. 45:016:012 Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labour in the Lord.
I am glad therefore on your behalf: but yet I would have you wise unto that which is good, and simple concerning evil. 45:016:020 And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
If any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become a fool, that he may be wise. 46:003:019 For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God.
For it is written, He taketh the wise in their own craftiness. 46:003:020 And again, The Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise, that they are vain. 46:003:021 Therefore let no man glory in men.
Know ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump? 46:005:007 Purge out therefore the old leaven, that ye may be a new lump, as ye are unleavened.
And so ordain I in all churches. 46:007:018 Is any man called being circumcised? let him not become uncircumcised.
Art thou loosed from a wife? seek not a wife. 46:007:028 But and if thou marry, thou hast not sinned; and if a virgin marry, she hath not sinned.
Doth God take care for oxen? 46:009:010 Or saith he it altogether for our sakes?
So run, that ye may obtain. 46:009:025 And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things.
Aquila and Priscilla salute you much in the Lord, with the church that is in their house. 46:016:020 All the brethren greet you.
For we also are weak in him, but we shall live with him by the power of God toward you. 47:013:005 Examine yourselves, whether ye be in the faith; prove your own selves.
The brethren which are with me greet you. 50:004:022 All the saints salute you, chiefly they that are of Caesar's household. 50:004:023 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
Remember my bonds. Grace be with you.
The Lord be with you all. 53:003:017 The salutation of Paul with mine own hand, which is the token in every epistle: so I write. 53:003:018 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
Amen. 55:004:019 Salute Prisca and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus. 55:004:020 Erastus abode at Corinth: but Trophimus have I left at Miletum sick. 55:004:021 Do thy diligence to come before winter.
Eubulus greeteth thee, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brethren. 55:004:022 The Lord Jesus Christ be with thy spirit.
For in that he put all in subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put under him.
They of Italy salute you. 58:013:025 Grace be with you all.
Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble. 59:004:007 Submit yourselves therefore to God.
Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. 59:004:008 Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you.
The grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth away: 60:001:025 But the word of the Lord endureth for ever.
I write unto you, little children, because ye have known the Father. 62:002:014 I have written unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that is from the beginning.
I have written unto you, young men, because ye are strong, and the word of God abideth in you, and ye have overcome the wicked one. 62:002:015 Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world.
And wherefore slew he him?
Because his own works were evil, and his brother's righteous. 62:003:013 Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. 62:003:014 We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren.
This is the true God, and eternal life. 62:005:021 Little children, keep yourselves from idols.
This is the commandment, That, as ye have heard from the beginning, ye should walk in it. 63:001:007 For many deceivers are entered into the world, who confess not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh.
Amen. 66:001:007 Behold, he cometh with clouds; and every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him: and all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him.
Of the tribe of Gad were sealed twelve thousand. 66:007:006 Of the tribe of Aser were sealed twelve thousand.
Of the tribe of Manasses were sealed twelve thousand. 66:007:007 Of the tribe of Simeon were sealed twelve thousand.
Of the tribe of Issachar were sealed twelve thousand. 66:007:008 Of the tribe of Zabulon were sealed twelve thousand.
Amen. 66:007:013 And one of the elders answered, saying unto me, What are these which are arrayed in white robes? and whence came they? 66:007:014 And I said unto him, Sir, thou knowest.
These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth.
And he saith unto me, These are the true sayings of God. 66:019:010 And I fell at his feet to worship him.
And he said unto me, Write: for these words are true and faithful. 66:021:006 And he said unto me, It is done.
I am the root and the offspring of David, and the bright and morning star. 66:022:017 And the Spirit and the bride say, Come.
Even so, come, Lord Jesus. 66:022:021 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
The Oedipus Trilogy by Sophocles Contents OEDIPUS THE KING OEDIPUS AT COLONUS ANTIGONE OEDIPUS THE KING Translation by F.
So when in time a son was born the infant's feet were riveted together and he was left to die on Mount Cithaeron.
But a shepherd found the babe and tended him, and delivered him to another shepherd who took him to his master, the King of Corinth.
Polybus being childless adopted the boy, who grew up believing that he was indeed the King's son.
Afterwards doubting his parentage he inquired of the Delphic god and heard himself the word declared before to Laius.
Wherefore he fled from what he deemed his father's house and in his flight he encountered and unwillingly slew his father Laius.
Arriving at Thebes he answered the riddle of the Sphinx and the grateful Thebans made their deliverer king.
So he reigned in the room of Laius, and espoused the widowed queen.
Children were born to them and Thebes prospered under his rule, but again a grievous plague fell upon the city.
Again the oracle was consulted and it bade them purge themselves of blood-guiltiness. Oedipus denounces the crime of which he is unaware, and undertakes to track out the criminal.
Step by step it is brought home to him that he is the man.
Before the Palace of Oedipus. OEDIPUS THE KING Suppliants of all ages are seated round the altar at the palace doors, at their head a PRIEST OF ZEUS.
1) Sweet-voiced daughter of Zeus from thy gold-paved Pythian shrine Wafted to Thebes divine, What dost thou bring me?
My soul is racked and shivers with fear. (Healer of Delos, hear!) Hast thou some pain unknown before, Or with the circling years renewest a penance of yore? Offspring of golden Hope, thou voice immortal, O tell me. (Ant.
Father Zeus, whose hand Doth wield the lightning brand, Slay him beneath thy levin bold, we pray, Slay him, O slay! (Ant.
This is man's highest end, To others' service all his powers to lend. TEIRESIAS. Alas, alas, what misery to be wise When wisdom profits nothing!
This old lore I had forgotten; else I were not here. OEDIPUS. What ails thee?
Why ask Thus idly what from me thou shalt not learn? OEDIPUS. Monster! thy silence would incense a flint. Will nothing loose thy tongue?
Then I charge thee to abide By thine own proclamation; from this day Speak not to these or me.
2) Sore perplexed am I by the words of the master seer. Are they true, are they false?
Thou hast spoken, 'tis my turn To make reply.
First, I bid thee think, Would any mortal choose a troubled reign Of terrors rather than secure repose, If the same power were given him?
Tis not right to adjudge Bad men at random good, or good men bad. I would as lief a man should cast away The thing he counts most precious, his own life, As spurn a true friend.
Who so fit As peacemaker to reconcile your feud? [Enter JOCASTA.] JOCASTA. Misguided princes, why have ye upraised This wordy wrangle?
Are ye not ashamed, While the whole land lies striken, thus to voice Your private injuries?
The land is sore distressed; 'Twere better sleeping ills to leave at rest. OEDIPUS. Strange counsel, friend!
I know thou mean'st me well, And yet would'st mitigate and blunt my zeal. CHORUS. (Ant.
O king, Regard it not.
Whate'er the god deems fit To search, himself unaided will reveal. OEDIPUS. What memories, what wild tumult of the soul Came o'er me, lady, as I heard thee speak! JOCASTA. What mean'st thou?
What has shocked and startled thee? OEDIPUS. Methought I heard thee say that Laius Was murdered at the meeting of three roads. JOCASTA. So ran the story that is current still. OEDIPUS. Where did this happen?
Was he still in manhood's prime? JOCASTA. Tall was he, and his hair was lightly strewn With silver; and not unlike thee in form. OEDIPUS. O woe is me!
Mehtinks unwittingly I laid but now a dread curse on myself. JOCASTA. What say'st thou?
Twas an honest slave And well deserved some better recompense. OEDIPUS. Fetch him at once.
And this same curse Was laid on me, and laid by none but me. Yea with these hands all gory I pollute The bed of him I slew.
Henceforth I Will look for signs neither to right nor left. OEDIPUS. Thou reasonest well.
Still I would have thee send And fetch the bondsman hither.
See to it. JOCASTA. That will I straightway.
Come, let us within. I would do nothing that my lord mislikes. [Exeunt OEDIPUS and JOCASTA] CHORUS. (Str.
But tell me why Thou comest-what thy need or what thy news. MESSENGER. Good for thy consort and the royal house. JOCASTA. What may it be?
With that last word I leave thee, henceforth silent evermore. [Exit JOCASTA] CHORUS. Why, Oedipus, why stung with passionate grief Hath the queen thus departed?
But I will revive His blunted memories.
What of that? MESSENGER. Friend, he that stands before thee was that child. HERDSMAN. A plague upon thee!
The end, ah where? CHORUS. An end too dread to tell, too dark to see. OEDIPUS. (Str.
The horror of darkness, like a shroud, Wraps me and bears me on through mist and cloud. Ah me, ah me!
What spasms athwart me shoot, What pangs of agonizing memory? CHORUS. No marvel if in such a plight thou feel'st The double weight of past and present woes. OEDIPUS. (Ant.
1) Ah friend, still loyal, constant still and kind, Thou carest for the blind. I know thee near, and though bereft of eyes, Thy voice I recognize. CHORUS. O doer of dread deeds, how couldst thou mar Thy vision thus?
What demon goaded thee? OEDIPUS. (Str.
2) Apollo, friend, Apollo, he it was That brought these ills to pass; But the right hand that dealt the blow Was mine, none other.
Thou canst never shake My firm belief.
Has Creon pitied me And sent me my two darlings?
O children mine, Where are ye?
Thy hand upon it, Prince. To you, my children I had much to say, Were ye but ripe to hear.
But Oedipus, instructed by an oracle that he had reached his final resting-place, refuses to stir, and the stranger consents to go and consult the Elders of Colonus (the Chorus of the Play).
Conducted to the spot they pity at first the blind beggar and his daughter, but on learning his name they are horror-striken and order him to quit the land.
He appeals to the world-famed hospitality of Athens and hints at the blessings that his coming will confer on the State.
They agree to await the decision of King Theseus.
From Theseus Oedipus craves protection in life and burial in Attic soil; the benefits that will accrue shall be told later. Theseus departs having promised to aid and befriend him.
In the next scene Theseus returns bringing with him the rescued maidens.
He informs Oedipus that a stranger who has taken sanctuary at the altar of Poseidon wishes to see him.
It is Polyneices who has come to crave his father's forgiveness and blessing, knowing by an oracle that victory will fall to the side that Oedipus espouses.
But Oedipus spurns the hypocrite, and invokes a dire curse on both his unnatural sons.
A sudden clap of thunder is heard, and as peal follows peal, Oedipus is aware that his hour is come and bids Antigone summon Theseus.
Self-guided he leads the way to the spot where death should overtake him, attended by Theseus and his daughters.
Halfway he bids his daughters farewell, and what followed none but Theseus knew.
A prudent man Will ever shape his course by what he learns. [Enter CHORUS] CHORUS. (Str.
Come, Sir, why dally thus! OEDIPUS. Know'st one of Laius'- CHORUS. Ha?
For, look you, now Athens is held of States the most devout, Athens alone gives hospitality And shelters the vexed stranger, so men say. Have I found so?
Who serves his neighbor serves himself.
Do I wake or dream? 'Tis she; 'tis not-I cannot tell, alack; It is no other!
In a parent's cause Toil, if there be toil, is of no account. [Exit ISMENE] CHORUS. (Str.
Thy choice is mine. OEDIPUS. Zeus, may the blessing fall on men like these! THESEUS. What dost thou then decide-to come with me? OEDIPUS. Yea, were it lawful-but 'tis rather here- THESEUS. What wouldst thou here?
My name, Though I be distant, warrants thee from harm. CHORUS. (Str.
What is forward? wherefore was I called away From the altar of Poseidon, lord of your Colonus?
Speak. OEDIPUS. Creon who stands before thee.
Thou, Oedipus, Stay here assured that nothing save my death Will stay my purpose to restore the maids. OEDIPUS. Heaven bless thee, Theseus, for thy nobleness And all thy loving care in my behalf. [Exeunt THESEUS and CREON] CHORUS. (Str.
Can I wish that thou should'st touch One fallen like me to utter wretchedness, Corrupt and tainted with a thousand ills? Oh no, I would not let thee if thou would'st. They only who have known calamity Can share it.
If his suit offend, No need to grant it.
Why so loth to hear him? OEDIPUS. That voice, O king, grates on a father's ears; I have come to loathe it.
Force me not to yield. THESEUS. But he hath found asylum.
For transgressions past May be amended, cannot be made worse. Why silent?
So I pray and call On the ancestral gloom of Tartarus To snatch thee hence, on these dread goddesses I call, and Ares who incensed you both To mortal enmity.
What a desperate end To that glad march from Argos!
Say on. ANTIGONE. Turn back thy host to Argos with all speed, And ruin not thyself and Thebes as well. POLYNEICES. That cannot be.
Zeus defend us! OEDIPUS. Children, my children! will no messenger Go summon hither Theseus my best friend? ANTIGONE. And wherefore, father, dost thou summon him? OEDIPUS. This winged thunder of the god must bear me Anon to Hades.
Send and tarry not. CHORUS. (Ant.
1) Hark! with louder, nearer roar The bolt of Zeus descends once more. My spirit quails and cowers: my hair Bristles for fear.
Again that flare! What doth the lightning-flash portend? Ever it points to issues grave. Dread powers of air!
Save, Zeus, O save! OEDIPUS. Daughters, upon me the predestined end Has come; no turning from it any more. ANTIGONE. How knowest thou?
What sign convinces thee? OEDIPUS. I know full well.
Let some one with all speed Go summon hither the Athenian prince. CHORUS. (Str.
Will he when he comes Find me yet living and my senses clear! ANTIGONE. What solemn charge would'st thou impress on him? OEDIPUS. For all his benefits I would perform The promise made when I received them first. CHORUS. (Ant.
2) Hither haste, my son, arise, Altar leave and sacrifice, If haply to Poseidon now In the far glade thou pay'st thy vow. For our guest to thee would bring And thy folk and offering, Thy due guerdon.
Strange that I Whom you have led so long should lead you now. Oh, touch me not, but let me all alone Find out the sepulcher that destiny Appoints me in this land.
By a god-sent, painless doom, poor soul? MESSENGER. Thy question hits the marvel of the tale. How he moved hence, you saw him and must know; Without a friend to lead the way, himself Guiding us all.
Wither roam O'er land or sea in our distress Eating the bread of bitterness? ISMENE. I know not.
Man is born to fate a prey. ANTIGONE. (Str.
She is caught in the act by Creon's watchmen and brought before the king.
She justifies her action, asserting that she was bound to obey the eternal laws of right and wrong in spite of any human ordinance.
Creon, unrelenting, condemns her to be immured in a rock-hewn chamber.
His son Haemon, to whom Antigone is betrothed, pleads in vain for her life and threatens to die with her.
Warned by the seer Teiresias Creon repents him and hurries to release Antigone from her rocky prison.
But he is too late: he finds lying side by side Antigone who had hanged herself and Haemon who also has perished by his own hand.
Some dark secret stirs thy breast. ANTIGONE. What but the thought of our two brothers dead, The one by Creon graced with funeral rites, The other disappointed?
Decide. ISMENE. In what bold venture?
I perforce obey The powers that be.
As for thee, Scorn, if thou wilt, the eternal laws of Heaven. ISMENE. I scorn them not, but to defy the State Or break her ordinance I have no skill. ANTIGONE. A specious pretext.
2) To earthy from earth rebounding, down he crashed; The fire-brand from his impious hand was dashed, As like a Bacchic reveler on he came, Outbreathing hate and flame, And tottered.
Creon our new lord draws near, Crowned by this strange chance, our king. What, I marvel, pondering? Why this summons?
Then again, "If Creon learn This from another, thou wilt rue it worse." Thus leisurely I hastened on my road; Much thought extends a furlong to a league. But in the end the forward voice prevailed, To face thee.
I will speak though I say nothing. For plucking courage from despair methought, 'Let the worst hap, thou canst but meet thy fate.' CREON. What is thy news?
Or perchance The gods bestow their favors on the bad. No! no!
I have long noted malcontents Who wagged their heads, and kicked against the yoke, Misliking these my orders, and my rule. 'Tis they, I warrant, who suborned my guards By bribes.
Of evils current upon earth The worst is money.
If thou fail'st To find these malefactors, thou shalt own The wages of ill-gotten gains is death. [Exit CREON] GUARD. I pray he may be found.
But caught or not (And fortune must determine that) thou never Shalt see me here returning; that is sure. For past all hope or thought I have escaped, And for my safety owe the gods much thanks. CHORUS. (Str.
But where's the King? CHORUS. There from the palace he returns in time. [Enter CREON] CREON. Why is my presence timely?
There's nothing more to tell. CREON. Hast thou thy wits?
Or know'st thou what thou say'st? GUARD. I saw this woman burying the corpse Against thy orders.
Is that clear and plain? CREON. But how was she surprised and caught in the act? GUARD. It happened thus.
No sooner had we come, Driven from thy presence by those awful threats, Than straight we swept away all trace of dust, And bared the clammy body.
A sudden whirlwind then upraised A cloud of dust that blotted out the sky, And swept the plain, and stripped the woodlands bare, And shook the firmament.
Undismayed she stood, and when We taxed her with the former crime and this, She disowned nothing.
I was glad-and grieved; For 'tis most sweet to 'scape oneself scot-free, And yet to bring disaster to a friend Is grievous.
Take it all in all, I deem A man's first duty is to serve himself. CREON. Speak, girl, with head bent low and downcast eyes, Does thou plead guilty or deny the deed? ANTIGONE. Guilty.
I knew that I must die, E'en hadst thou not proclaimed it; and if death Is thereby hastened, I shall count it gain. For death is gain to him whose life, like mine, Is full of misery.
Say, didst thou too abet This crime, or dost abjure all privity? ISMENE. I did the deed, if she will have it so, And with my sister claim to share the guilt. ANTIGONE. That were unjust.
Wherefore should'st thou die? ISMENE. What would life profit me bereft of thee? ANTIGONE. Ask Creon, he's thy kinsman and best friend. ISMENE. Why taunt me?
Henceforward let them learn To live as women use, not roam at large. For e'en the bravest spirits run away When they perceive death pressing on life's heels. CHORUS. (Str.
Son, be warned And let no woman fool away thy wits. Ill fares the husband mated with a shrew, And her embraces very soon wax cold. For what can wound so surely to the quick As a false friend?
O monstrous doom, Within a rock-built prison sepulchered, To fade and wither in a living tomb, And alien midst the living and the dead. CHORUS. (Str.
3) In thy boldness over-rash Madly thou thy foot didst dash 'Gainst high Justice' altar stair. Thou a father's guild dost bear. ANTIGONE. (Ant.
This word I hear Brings death most near. CHORUS. I have no comfort.
O forbear To vex the dead.
What glory wilt thou win By slaying twice the slain?
I mean thee well; Counsel's most welcome if I promise gain. CREON. Old man, ye all let fly at me your shafts Like anchors at a target; yea, ye set Your soothsayer on me.
I will heed. CHORUS. Go, free the maiden from her rocky cell; And for the unburied outlaw build a tomb. CREON. Is that your counsel?
You would have me yield? CHORUS. Yea, king, this instant.
Vengeance of the gods Is swift to overtake the impenitent. CREON. Ah! what a wrench it is to sacrifice My heart's resolve; but Fate is ill to fight. CHORUS. Go, trust not others.
Do it quick thyself. CREON. I go hot-foot.
Bestir ye one and all, My henchmen!
Speed away To yonder eminence!
But repeat your tale To one not unacquaint with misery. MESSENGER. Dear mistress, I was there and will relate The perfect truth, omitting not one word. Why should we gloze and flatter, to be proved Liars hereafter?
Truth is ever best. Well, in attendance on my liege, your lord, I crossed the plain to its utmost margin, where The corse of Polyneices, gnawn and mauled, Was lying yet.
Then to the caverned rock, The bridal chamber of the maid and Death, We sped, about to enter.
What mischance Has reft thee of thy reason?
O come forth, Come forth, my son; thy father supplicates." But the son glared at him with tiger eyes, Spat in his face, and then, without a word, Drew his two-hilted sword and smote, but missed His father flying backwards.
Then the boy, Wroth with himself, poor wretch, incontinent Fell on his sword and drove it through his side Home, but yet breathing clasped in his lax arms The maid, her pallid cheek incarnadined With his expiring gasps.
So there they lay Two corpses, one in death.
His marriage rites Are consummated in the halls of Death: A witness that of ills whate'er befall Mortals' unwisdom is the worst of all. [Exit EURYDICE] CHORUS. What makest thou of this?
It may be thou art right: Unnatural silence signifies no good. CHORUS. Lo! the King himself appears. Evidence he with him bears 'Gainst himself (ah me!
I quake 'Gainst a king such charge to make) But all must own, The guilt is his and his alone. CREON. (Str.
1) How bottomless the pit! Does claim me too, O Death? What is this word he saith, This woeful messenger?
Say, is it fit To slay anew a man already slain? Is Death at work again, Stroke upon stroke, first son, then mother slain? CHORUS. Look for thyself.
She lies for all to view. CREON. (Ant.
4) I am the guilty cause.
I did the deed, Thy murderer.
Yea, I guilty plead. My henchmen, lead me hence, away, away, A cipher, less than nothing; no delay! CHORUS. Well said, if in disaster aught is well His past endure demand the speediest cure. CREON. (Ant.
HERLAND by Charlotte Perkins Stetson Gilman CHAPTER 1. A Not Unnatural Enterprise This is written from memory, unfortunately.
If I could have brought with me the material I so carefully prepared, this would be a very different story.
Whole books full of notes, carefully copied records, firsthand descriptions, and the pictures--that's the worst loss.
Descriptions aren't any good when it comes to women, and I never was good at descriptions anyhow.
There were three of us, classmates and friends--Terry O.
Nicholson (we used to call him the Old Nick, with good reason), Jeff Margrave, and I, Vandyck Jennings. We had known each other years and years, and in spite of our differences we had a good deal in common.
All of us were interested in science. Terry was rich enough to do as he pleased.
His great aim was exploration.
He used to make all kinds of a row because there was nothing left to explore now, only patchwork and filling in, he said.
He filled in well enough--he had a lot of talents--great on mechanics and electricity.
He was a good one, for his age, but his real interest was in what he loved to call "the wonders of science." As for me, sociology's my major.
You have to back that up with a lot of other sciences, of course.
There are few things that don't. We three had a chance to join a big scientific expedition.
That was only the merest starter for ours. My interest was first roused by talk among our guides.
I'm quick at languages, know a good many, and pick them up readily.
It was dangerous, deadly, they said, for any man to go there.
But there were tales of long ago, when some brave investigator had seen it--a Big Country, Big Houses, Plenty People--All Women. Had no one else gone?
Yes--a good many--but they never came back.
It was no place for men--of that they seemed sure. I told the boys about these stories, and they laughed at them.
Maybe we can really find something.
I fancy the savage could have done it alone much quicker.
There was a desperate tangle of wood and water and a swampy patch we never should have found our way across alone.
Our guide told us that boats could go from there to our camp--but "long way--all day." This water was somewhat clearer than that we had left, but we could not judge well from the margin.
May be hundreds of miles from the range.
They crop out like that." Suddenly we left the lake and struck directly toward the cliffs.
We heard running water before we reached it, and the guide pointed proudly to his river. It was short.
We could see where it poured down a narrow vertical cataract from an opening in the face of the cliff.
It was sweet water. The guide drank eagerly and so did we. "That's snow water," Terry announced.
Must come from way back in the hills." But as to being red and blue--it was greenish in tint.
The guide seemed not at all surprised.
Look to me like dyestuffs.
Let's get nearer," he urged, "up there by the fall." We scrambled along the steep banks and got close to the pool that foamed and boiled beneath the falling water.
Here we searched the border and found traces of color beyond dispute.
More--Jeff suddenly held up an unlooked-for trophy. It was only a rag, a long, raveled fragment of cloth.
But it was a well-woven fabric, with a pattern, and of a clear scarlet that the water had not faded.
Woman Country--up there." Then we were interested.
We had our rest and lunch right there and pumped the man for further information.
He could tell us only what the others had--a land of women--no men--babies, but all girls.
Some had gone to see--none had come back. I could see Terry's jaw set at that.
He looked as if he might shin up the waterfall on the spot.
Look here, fellows," he said.
Let's not tell those cocky old professors.
Let's go on home with 'em, and then come back--just us--have a little expedition of our own." We looked at him, much impressed.
Somewhere up yonder they spin and weave and dye--as well as we do." "That would mean a considerable civilization, Van.
There couldn't be such a place--and not known about." "Oh, well, I don't know.
What's that old republic up in the Pyrenees somewhere--Andorra?
Precious few people know anything about that, and it's been minding its own business for a thousand years.
Then there's Montenegro--splendid little state--you could lose a dozen Montenegroes up and down these great ranges." We discussed it hotly all the way back to camp.
We discussed it with care and privacy on the voyage home.
We discussed it after that, still only among ourselves, while Terry was making his arrangements. He was hot about it.
Lucky he had so much money--we might have had to beg and advertise for years to start the thing, and then it would have been a matter of public amusement--just sport for the papers. But T.
His previous experience stood him in good stead there.
It had a special covering of fitted armor, thin but strong, shut up like a clamshell. "Those natives can't get into it, or hurt it, or move it," Terry explained proudly.
There may be a contingent of gentlemen with poisoned arrows or something." "You don't need to go if you don't want to," Terry remarked drily. "Go?
You'll have to get an injunction to stop me!
Both Jeff and I were sure about that. But we did have differences of opinion, all the long way. An ocean voyage is an excellent time for discussion.
Now we had no eavesdroppers, we could loll and loaf in our deck chairs and talk and talk--there was nothing else to do.
Our absolute lack of facts only made the field of discussion wider. "We'll leave papers with our consul where the yacht stays," Terry planned.
If we don't come back in--say a month--they can send a relief party after us." "A punitive expedition," I urged.
If three valuable American citizens are lost up there, they will follow somehow--to say nothing of the glittering attractions of that fair land--let's call it 'Feminisia,'" he broke off. "You're right, Terry.
Once the story gets out, the river will crawl with expeditions and the airships rise like a swarm of mosquitoes.
I laughed as I thought of it.
We've made a great mistake not to let Mr. Yellow Press in on this.
What headlines!" "Not much!" said Terry grimly.
We're going to find that place alone." "What are you going to do with it when you do find it--if you do?
Jeff asked mildly. Jeff was a tender soul.
If there is such a place--and there does seem some foundation for believing it--you'll find it's built on a sort of matriarchal principle, that's all.
The men have a separate cult of their own, less socially developed than the women, and make them an annual visit--a sort of wedding call.
This is a condition known to have existed--here's just a survival.
They've got some peculiarly isolated valley or tableland up there, and their primeval customs have survived. That's all there is to it." "How about the boys?
It was no use to tell ourselves and one another that all this was idle speculation.
We were idle and we did speculate, on the ocean voyage and the river voyage, too. "Admitting the improbability," we'd begin solemnly, and then launch out again. "They would fight among themselves," Terry insisted.
Women always do. We mustn't look to find any sort of order and organization." "You're dead wrong," Jeff told him.
It will be like a nunnery under an abbess--a peaceful, harmonious sisterhood." I snorted derision at this idea. "Nuns, indeed!
Your peaceful sisterhoods were all celibate, Jeff, and under vows of obedience.
These are just women, and mothers, and where there's motherhood you don't find sisterhood--not much." "No, sir--they'll scrap," agreed Terry.
Also we mustn't look for inventions and progress; it'll be awfully primitive." "How about that cloth mill?
Women have always been spinsters.
But there they stop--you'll see." We joked Terry about his modest impression that he would be warmly received, but he held his ground. "You'll see," he insisted.
I'll get solid with them all--and play one bunch against another.
I'll get myself elected king in no time--whew! Solomon will have to take a back seat!" "Where do we come in on that deal?
Aren't we Viziers or anything?" "Couldn't risk it," he asserted solemnly.
You might start a revolution--probably would.
No, you'll have to be beheaded, or bowstrung--or whatever the popular method of execution is." "You'd have to do it yourself, remember," grinned Jeff.
No husky black slaves and mamelukes!
And there'd be two of us and only one of you--eh, Van?" Jeff's ideas and Terry's were so far apart that sometimes it was all I could do to keep the peace between them.
Jeff idealized women in the best Southern style.
He was full of chivalry and sentiment, and all that.
And he was a good boy; he lived up to his ideals. You might say Terry did, too, if you can call his views about women anything so polite as ideals.
He was a man's man, very much so, generous and brave and clever; but I don't think any of us in college days was quite pleased to have him with our sisters.
We weren't very stringent, heavens no!
But Terry was "the limit.
He had such rose-colored halos on his womenfolks.
It might take months--we haven't got the provisions.
No, sir--we've got to take our chances.
If we get back safe--all right.
If we don't, why, we're not the first explorers to get lost in the shuffle.
There are plenty to come after us." So we got the big biplane together and loaded it with our scientifically compressed baggage: the camera, of course; the glasses; a supply of concentrated food.
It ran back on either side, apparently, to the far-off white-crowned peaks in the distance, themselves probably inaccessible. "Let's make the first trip geographical," I suggested.
Spy out the land, and drop back here for more gasoline.
With your tremendous speed we can reach that range and back all right.
Then we can leave a sort of map on board--for that relief expedition." "There's sense in that," Terry agreed.
We could tell the size fairly by our speed.
It appeared to be well forested about the edges, but in the interior there were wide plains, and everywhere parklike meadows and open places. There were cities, too; that I insisted.
Looks like a first-rate climate.
It's wonderful what a little height will do for temperature.
Terry was studying the forest growth. "Little height!
Is that what you call little?
Our instruments measured it clearly.
We had not realized the long gentle rise from the coast perhaps. "Mighty lucky piece of land, I call it," Terry pursued.
Now for the folks--I've had enough scenery." So we sailed low, crossing back and forth, quartering the country as we went, and studying it.
We were approaching a village. I confess that we paid small attention to the clean, well-built roads, to the attractive architecture, to the ordered beauty of the little town.
We had our glasses out; even Terry, setting his machine for a spiral glide, clapped the binoculars to his eyes. They heard our whirring screw.
They ran out of the houses--they gathered in from the fields, swift-running light figures, crowds of them.
There must be men." "Of course there are men," said Terry.
But we were three young men.
Here goes for Herland!" CHAPTER 2. Rash Advances Not more than ten or fifteen miles we judged it from our landing rock to that last village.
But there are men somewhere--didn't you see the babies?" We had all seen babies, children big and little, everywhere that we had come near enough to distinguish the people.
Terry studied it as we progressed. "Talk of civilization," he cried softly in restrained enthusiasm.
I never saw a forest so petted, even in Germany.
Look, there's not a dead bough--the vines are trained--actually!
And see here"--he stopped and looked about him, calling Jeff's attention to the kinds of trees. They left me for a landmark and made a limited excursion on either side. "Food-bearing, practically all of them," they announced returning.
It's a truck farm!" "Good thing to have a botanist on hand," I agreed.
Sure there are no medicinal ones?
Or any for pure ornament?" As a matter of fact they were quite right.
These towering trees were under as careful cultivation as so many cabbages.
Hark!" We had heard something: something not in the least like a birdsong, and very much like a suppressed whisper of laughter--a little happy sound, instantly smothered.
We stood like so many pointers, and then used our glasses, swiftly, carefully. "It couldn't have been far off," said Terry excitedly.
How about this big tree?" There was a very large and beautiful tree in the glade we had just entered, with thick wide-spreading branches that sloped out in lapping fans like a beech or pine.
It was trimmed underneath some twenty feet up, and stood there like a huge umbrella, with circling seats beneath. "Look," he pursued.
There are short stumps of branches left to climb on.
There's someone up that tree, I believe." We stole near, cautiously. "Look out for a poisoned arrow in your eye," I suggested, but Terry pressed forward, sprang up on the seat-back, and grasped the trunk.
In my heart, more likely," he answered.
Look, boys!" We rushed close in and looked up.
There among the boughs overhead was something--more than one something--that clung motionless, close to the great trunk at first, and then, as one and all we started up the tree, separated into three swift-moving figures and fled upward.
As we climbed we could catch glimpses of them scattering above us.
If we pursued further, the boughs would break under the double burden.
We might shake them off, perhaps, but none of us was so inclined.
Mr. Jeff Margrave," he said clearly; Jeff bowed as gracefully as a man could in the fork of a great limb.
This was pleasant, but we got no nearer. "We can't sit here and learn the language," Terry protested.
He beckoned to them to come nearer, most winningly--but they gaily shook their heads.
He suggested, by signs, that we all go down together; but again they shook their heads, still merrily.
I don't know about you fellows, but I came prepared.
He held it up, swung it, glittering in the sun, offered it first to one, then to another, holding it out as far as he could reach toward the girl nearest him.
Then, softly and slowly, she drew nearer.
This was Alima, a tall long-limbed lass, well-knit and evidently both strong and agile. Her eyes were splendid, wide, fearless, as free from suspicion as a child's who has never been rebuked.
Her interest was more that of an intent boy playing a fascinating game than of a girl lured by an ornament. The others moved a bit farther out, holding firmly, watching.
Terry's smile was irreproachable, but I did not like the look in his eyes--it was like a creature about to spring.
I could already see it happen--the dropped necklace, the sudden clutching hand, the girl's sharp cry as he seized her and drew her in. But it didn't happen.
They dropped from the ends of the big boughs to those below, fairly pouring themselves off the tree, while we climbed downward as swiftly as we could.
They got away with it.
The men of this country must be good sprinters!" "Inhabitants evidently arboreal," I grimly suggested.
Civilized and still arboreal--peculiar people." "You shouldn't have tried that way," Jeff protested.
They were perfectly friendly; now we've scared them." But it was no use grumbling, and Terry refused to admit any mistake. "Nonsense," he said.
Women like to be run after.
Come on, let's get to that town; maybe we'll find them there.
Let's see, it was in this direction and not far from the woods, as I remember." When we reached the edge of the open country we reconnoitered with our field glasses.
There it was, about four miles off, the same town, we concluded, unless, as Jeff ventured, they all had pink houses.
The broad green fields and closely cultivated gardens sloped away at our feet, a long easy slant, with good roads winding pleasantly here and there, and narrower paths besides. "Look at that!" cried Jeff suddenly.
There they go!" Sure enough, close to the town, across a wide meadow, three bright-hued figures were running swiftly. "How could they have got that far in this time?
It can't be the same ones," I urged.
But through the glasses we could identify our pretty tree-climbers quite plainly, at least by costume. Terry watched them, we all did for that matter, till they disappeared among the houses.
Then he put down his glass and turned to us, drawing a long breath.
Mother of Mike, boys--what Gorgeous Girls!
To climb like that! to run like that! and afraid of nothing.
This country suits me all right.
Let's get ahead." "Nothing venture, nothing have," I suggested, but Terry preferred "Faint heart ne'er won fair lady." We set forth in the open, walking briskly.
If there are any men, we'd better keep an eye out," I suggested, but Jeff seemed lost in heavenly dreams, and Terry in highly practical plans. "What a perfect road!
No men, eh?" sneered Terry.
Mighty nice place they've got here.
We stopped and studied it. Jeff drew a long breath.
I wouldn't have believed a collection of houses could look so lovely," he said. "They've got architects and landscape gardeners in plenty, that's sure," agreed Terry. I was astonished myself.
You see, I come from California, and there's no country lovelier, but when it comes to towns--!
I have often groaned at home to see the offensive mess man made in the face of nature, even though I'm no art sharp, like Jeff.
Boys, it behooves us to go forward most politely." The place had an odd look, more impressive as we approached.
It's too pretty to be true.
Plenty of palaces, but where are the homes?
Oh there are little ones enough--but--.
It certainly was different from any towns we had ever seen. "There's no dirt," said Jeff suddenly.
The street behind was closed by another band, marching steadily, shoulder to shoulder.
We went on--there seemed no other way to go--and presently found ourselves quite surrounded by this close-massed multitude, women, all of them, but-- They were not young.
They were not, in the girl sense, beautiful.
They were not in the least ferocious.
We felt like small boys, very small boys, caught doing mischief in some gracious lady's house.
But Terry showed no such consciousness.
I saw his quick eyes darting here and there, estimating numbers, measuring distances, judging chances of escape.
He examined the close ranks about us, reaching back far on every side, and murmured softly to me, "Every one of 'em over forty as I'm a sinner." Yet they were not old women.
Each was in the full bloom of rosy health, erect, serene, standing sure-footed and light as any pugilist.
They had no weapons, and we had, but we had no wish to shoot. "I'd as soon shoot my aunts," muttered Terry again.
What do they want with us anyhow?
They seem to mean business.
But in spite of that businesslike aspect, he determined to try his favorite tactics.
Terry had come armed with a theory. He stepped forward, with his brilliant ingratiating smile, and made low obeisance to the women before him.
She took it with a gracious nod of acknowledgment, and passed it on to those behind her. He tried again, this time bringing out a circlet of rhinestones, a glittering crown that should have pleased any woman on earth.
He made a brief address, including Jeff and me as partners in his enterprise, and with another bow presented this.
Again his gift was accepted and, as before, passed out of sight. "If they were only younger," he muttered between his teeth.
As they get older they pass off the stage, somehow, into private ownership mostly, or out of it altogether.
We mustn't let them get us in this, boys.
All together, now--" We stopped in our tracks.
We seemed to think that if there were men we could fight them, and if there were only women--why, they would be no obstacles at all. Jeff, with his gentle romantic old-fashioned notions of women as clinging vines.
Terry, with his clear decided practical theories that there were two kinds of women--those he wanted and those he didn't; Desirable and Undesirable was his demarcation.
Even a peaceful detention was not to our minds, and when we named it imprisonment it looked even worse. So we made a stand, trying to make clear that we preferred the open country.
All around us and behind they were massed solidly--there was simply nothing to do but go forward--or fight. We held a consultation. "I never fought with women in my life," said Terry, greatly perturbed, "but I'm not going in there.
I'm not going to be--herded in--as if we were in a cattle chute." "We can't fight them, of course," Jeff urged.
They're all women, in spite of their nondescript clothes; nice women, too; good strong sensible faces.
I guess we'll have to go in." "We may never get out, if we do," I told them.
Strong and sensible, yes; but I'm not so sure about the good.
Look at those faces!" They had stood at ease, waiting while we conferred together, but never relaxing their close attention. Their attitude was not the rigid discipline of soldiers; there was no sense of compulsion about them.
Terry's term of a "vigilance committee" was highly descriptive.
But we were two to one against him and he loyally stood by us.
We made one more effort to be let go, urgent, but not imploring.
In vain. "Now for a rush, boys!
Terry soon found that it was useless, tore himself loose for a moment, pulled his revolver, and fired upward.
Or like the return to consciousness after concussion of the brain.
I was once thrown from a horse while on a visit to a wild mountainous country quite new to me, and I can clearly remember the mental experience of coming back to life, through lifting veils of dream.
I was lying in a perfect bed: long, broad, smooth; firmly soft and level; with the finest linen, some warm light quilt of blanket, and a counterpane that was a joy to the eye.
The sheet turned down some fifteen inches, yet I could stretch my feet at the foot of the bed free but warmly covered. I felt as light and clean as a white feather.
There were three beds in this chamber, and plenty of room for them. Terry was sitting up, looking about him, alert as ever.
His remark, though not loud, roused Jeff also.
We all sat up. Terry swung his legs out of bed, stood up, stretched himself mightily. He was in a long nightrobe, a sort of seamless garment, undoubtedly comfortable--we all found ourselves so covered.
Come on back to bed--the bed's all right anyhow.
Now then, my scientific friend, let us consider our case dispassionately." He meant me, but Jeff seemed most impressed. "They haven't hurt us in the least!" he said.
They could have killed us--or--or anything--and I never felt better in my life." "That argues that they are all women," I suggested, "and highly civilized.
You know you hit one in the last scrimmage--I heard her sing out--and we kicked awfully." Terry was grinning at us.
So you realize what these ladies have done to us?" he pleasantly inquired.
They have taken away all our possessions, all our clothes--every stitch.
We have been stripped and washed and put to bed like so many yearling babies--by these highly civilized women." Jeff actually blushed.
He had a poetic imagination.
Terry had imagination enough, of a different kind.
So had I, also different. I always flattered myself I had the scientific imagination, which, incidentally, I considered the highest sort.
One has a right to a certain amount of egotism if founded on fact--and kept to one's self--I think. "No use kicking, boys," I said.
They've got us, and apparently they're perfectly harmless.
It remains for us to cook up some plan of escape like any other bottled heroes.
Then there were tunics, knee-length, and some long robes.
Needless to say, we took tunics. We bathed and dressed quite cheerfully. "Not half bad," said Terry, surveying himself in a long mirror.
With which we all agreed. "Now then," Terry proclaimed, "we've had a fine long sleep--we've had a good bath--we're clothed and in our right minds, though feeling like a lot of neuters.
Do you think these highly civilized ladies are going to give us any breakfast?" "Of course they will," Jeff asserted confidently.
If they had meant to kill us, they would have done it before.
I believe we are going to be treated as guests." "Hailed as deliverers, I think," said Terry. "Studied as curiosities," I told them.
But anyhow, we want food.
So now for a sortie!" A sortie was not so easy. The bathroom only opened into our chamber, and that had but one outlet, a big heavy door, which was fastened. We listened. "There's someone outside," Jeff suggested.
Let's knock." So we knocked, whereupon the door opened. Outside was another large room, furnished with a great table at one end, long benches or couches against the wall, some smaller tables and chairs.
All these were solid, strong, simple in structure, and comfortable in use--also, incidentally, beautiful. This room was occupied by a number of women, eighteen to be exact, some of whom we distinctly recalled. Terry heaved a disappointed sigh.
We had plenty of time to get tired of those women! The breakfast was not profuse, but sufficient in amount and excellent in quality.
We were all too good travelers to object to novelty, and this repast with its new but delicious fruit, its dish of large rich-flavored nuts, and its highly satisfactory little cakes was most agreeable.
We examined them curiously. "Shades of Sauveur!" muttered Terry.
We're to learn the language!" We were indeed to learn the language, and not only that, but to teach our own.
Such subtle understanding, such instant recognition of our difficulties, and readiness to meet them, were a constant surprise to us. Of course, we were willing to meet them halfway.
It was wholly to our advantage to be able to understand and speak with them, and as to refusing to teach them--why should we?
I myself was intensely interested. It was evident that those sets of five were there to check any outbreak on our part.
We had no weapons, and if we did try to do any damage, with a chair, say, why five to one was too many for us, even if they were women; that we had found out to our sorrow.
It was not pleasant, having them always around, but we soon got used to it. "It's better than being physically restrained ourselves," Jeff philosophically suggested when we were alone.
They've given us a room--with no great possibility of escape--and personal liberty--heavily chaperoned.
It's better than we'd have been likely to get in a man-country." "Man-Country!
Do you really believe there are no men here, you innocent? Don't you know there must be?" demanded Terry. "Ye--es," Jeff agreed.
Of course--and yet--" "And yet--what!
Come, you obdurate sentimentalist--what are you thinking about?" "They may have some peculiar division of labor we've never heard of," I suggested.
The men may live in separate towns, or they may have subdued them--somehow--and keep them shut up.
But there must be some." "That last suggestion of yours is a nice one, Van," Terry protested. "Same as they've got us subdued and shut up! you make me shiver." "Well, figure it out for yourself, anyway you please.
We saw plenty of kids, the first day, and we've seen those girls--" "Real girls!
Terry agreed, in immense relief.
I declare, if I thought there was nothing in the country but those grenadiers I'd jump out the window." "Speaking of windows," I suggested, "let's examine ours." We looked out of all the windows.
The blinds opened easily enough, and there were no bars, but the prospect was not reassuring. This was not the pink-walled town we had so rashly entered the day before.
Our chamber was high up, in a projecting wing of a sort of castle, built out on a steep spur of rock.
Immediately below us were gardens, fruitful and fragrant, but their high walls followed the edge of the cliff which dropped sheer down, we could not see how far.
The distant sound of water suggested a river at the foot. We could look out east, west, and south.
It's right up among the hills--they must have brought us a long way." "We saw some kind of swift-moving vehicles the first day," Jeff reminded us.
If they've got motors, they _are_ civilized." "Civilized or not, we've got our work cut out for us to get away from here.
I don't propose to make a rope of bedclothes and try those walls till I'm sure there is no better way." We all concurred on this point, and returned to our discussion as to the women. Jeff continued thoughtful.
All the same, there's something funny about it," he urged.
It isn't just that we don't see any men--but we don't see any signs of them.
The--the--reaction of these women is different from any that I've ever met." "There is something in what you say, Jeff," I agreed.
There is a different--atmosphere." "They don't seem to notice our being men," he went on.
They treat us--well--just as they do one another.
It's as if our being men was a minor incident." I nodded.
But Terry broke in rudely. "Fiddlesticks!" he said.
It's because of their advanced age.
They're all grandmas, I tell you--or ought to be.
Those girls were girls all right, weren't they?" "Yes--" Jeff agreed, still slowly.
But they weren't afraid--they flew up that tree and hid, like schoolboys caught out of bounds--not like shy girls." "And they ran like marathon winners--you'll admit that, Terry," he added. Terry was moody as the days passed.
He seemed to mind our confinement more than Jeff or I did; and he harped on Alima, and how near he'd come to catching her.
If I had--" he would say, rather savagely, "we'd have had a hostage and could have made terms." But Jeff was getting on excellent terms with his tutor, and even his guards, and so was I.
It interested me profoundly to note and study the subtle difference between these women and other women, and try to account for them.
In the matter of personal appearance, there was a great difference.
Why we should so admire "a woman's crown of hair" and not admire a Chinaman's queue is hard to explain, except that we are so convinced that the long hair "belongs" to a woman.
Whereas the "mane" in horses is on both, and in lions, buffalos, and such creatures only on the male.
But I did miss it--at first. Our time was quite pleasantly filled.
We were free of the garden below our windows, quite long in its irregular rambling shape, bordering the cliff.
The walls were perfectly smooth and high, ending in the masonry of the building; and as I studied the great stones I became convinced that the whole structure was extremely old.
It was built like the pre-Incan architecture in Peru, of enormous monoliths, fitted as closely as mosaics. "These folks have a history, that's sure," I told the others.
And SOME time they were fighters--else why a fortress?" I said we were free of the garden, but not wholly alone in it.
Scotch shepherds knit--always knitting." "When we get out--" Terry stretched himself and looked at the far peaks, "when we get out of this and get to where the real women are--the mothers, and the girls--" "Well, what'll we do then?
How do you know we'll ever get out?" This was an unpleasant idea, which we unanimously considered, returning with earnestness to our studies. "If we are good boys and learn our lessons well," I suggested.
If we are quiet and respectful and polite and they are not afraid of us--then perhaps they will let us out.
Here we learned real respect for our tall guards.
No change of costume was needed for this work, save to lay off outer clothing.
A good deal of music went with it, with posture dancing and, sometimes, gravely beautiful processional performances. Jeff was much impressed by it.
We did not know then how small a part of their physical culture methods this really was, but found it agreeable to watch, and to take part in. Oh yes, we took part all right!
They ran like deer, by which I mean that they ran not as if it was a performance, but as if it was their natural gait.
I remembered the sprawling spread-eagle way in which some of the fellows used to come over the line--and tried to learn the trick.
There isn't a man-size game in the lot," I said. "But they are interesting--I like them," Jeff objected, "and I'm sure they are educational." "I'm sick and tired of being educated," Terry protested.
Fancy going to a dame school--at our age.
I want to Get Out!" But we could not get out, and we were being educated swiftly.
Our special tutors rose rapidly in our esteem.
They seemed of rather finer quality than the guards, though all were on terms of easy friendliness. Mine was named Somel, Jeff's Zava, and Terry's Moadine.
We tried to generalize from the names, those of the guards, and of our three girls, but got nowhere. "They sound well enough, and they're mostly short, but there's no similarity of termination--and no two alike.
However, our acquaintance is limited as yet." There were many things we meant to ask--as soon as we could talk well enough.
Better teaching I never saw.
From morning to night there was Somel, always on call except between two and four; always pleasant with a steady friendly kindness that I grew to enjoy very much.
Sick of the whole thing.
Here we are cooped up as helpless as a bunch of three-year-old orphans, and being taught what they think is necessary--whether we like it or not.
Confound their old-maid impudence!" Nevertheless we were taught.
Every day we can understand them better, and pretty soon we can make a reasonable plea to be let out--" "_Let_ out!" he stormed. "_Let_ out--like children kept after school.
I want to Get Out, and I'm going to.
I want to find the men of this place and fight!--or the girls--" "Guess it's the girls you're most interested in," Jeff commented.
What are you going to fight _with_--your fists?" "Yes--or sticks and stones--I'd just like to!
And Terry squared off and tapped Jeff softly on the jaw.
Just for instance," he said. "Anyhow," he went on, "we could get back to our machine and clear out." "If it's there," I cautiously suggested. "Oh, don't croak, Van!
If it isn't there, we'll find our way down somehow--the boat's there, I guess." It was hard on Terry, so hard that he finally persuaded us to consider a plan of escape.
It was difficult, it was highly dangerous, but he declared that he'd go alone if we wouldn't go with him, and of course we couldn't think of that. It appeared he had made a pretty careful study of the environment.
From our end window that faced the point of the promontory we could get a fair idea of the stretch of wall, and the drop below.
Also from the roof we could make out more, and even, in one place, glimpse a sort of path below the wall. "It's a question of three things," he said.
Ropes, agility, and not being seen." "That's the hardest part," I urged, still hoping to dissuade him.
One or another pair of eyes is on us every minute except at night." "Therefore we must do it at night," he answered.
That's easy." "We've got to think that if they catch us we may not be so well treated afterward," said Jeff. "That's the business risk we must take.
I'm going--if I break my neck." There was no changing him. The rope problem was not easy.
These Jennies have glass and china, you see.
We'll break a glass from the bathroom and use that.
Love will find out a way,'" he hummed.
When we're all out of the window, we'll stand three-man high and cut the rope as far up as we can reach, so as to have more for the wall.
He had been foresighted enough to mark the very spot, only a scratch of stone on stone, but we could see to read in that light.
For anchorage there was a tough, fair-sized shrub close to the wall. "Now I'll climb up on you two again and go over first," said Terry. "That'll hold the rope firm till you both get up on top.
Then I'll go down to the end.
If I can get off safely, you can see me and follow--or, say, I'll twitch it three times.
If I find there's absolutely no footing--why I'll climb up again, that's all.
I don't think they'll kill us." From the top he reconnoitered carefully, waved his hand, and whispered, "OK," then slipped over.
This was a thick-leaved, wide-spreading thing, a little like Amphelopsis. "It's not _quite_ vertical here, you see," said Terry, full of pride and enthusiasm.
They were in all their garments, and the middle one in particular was shingled with them.
Alive yet?" "Very much so," I told him.
And Jeff was equally cheerful. We had room to stretch, if not to turn around; but we could very carefully roll over, one at a time, behind the sheltering foliage. It was no use to leave there by daylight.
I never said 'twould be a picnic.
Sometimes we were near the outer edge, and caught sudden glimpses of the tremendous depths beyond. "This piece of geography stands up like a basalt column," Jeff said. "Nice time we'll have getting down if they have confiscated our machine!
For which suggestion he received summary chastisement. What we could see inland was peaceable enough, but only moonlit glimpses; by daylight we lay very close.
As Terry said, we did not wish to kill the old ladies--even if we could; and short of that they were perfectly competent to pick us up bodily and carry us back, if discovered.
There was nothing for it but to lie low, and sneak out unseen if we could do it. There wasn't much talking done.
At night we had our marathon-obstacle race; we "stayed not for brake and we stopped not for stone," and swam whatever water was too deep to wade and could not be got around; but that was only necessary twice.
By day, sleep, sound and sweet.
Mighty lucky it was that we could live off the country as we did.
Now, if we can't find the 'plane, we know where to aim if we have to drop over this wall some other way." The wall at that point was singularly uninviting.
It rose so straight that we had to put our heads over to see the base, and the country below seemed to be a far-off marshy tangle of rank vegetation.
Would you think they had that much sense?" cried Terry. "If they had that much, they're likely to have more," I warned him, softly.
We decided to make a quick dash as soon as the light was strong enough for accurate work. "I don't care if the old thing'll go or not," Terry declared.
We can run her to the edge, get aboard, and just plane down--plop!--beside our boat there.
Look there--see the boat!" Sure enough--there was our motor, lying like a gray cocoon on the flat pale sheet of water. Quietly but swiftly we rushed forward and began to tug at the fastenings of that cover. "Confound the thing!
Terry cried in desperate impatience.
They've got it sewed up in a bag!
Look out for a trap." "Let us appeal to their kind hearts," Jeff urged.
I think they will help us.
Perhaps they've got knives." "It's no use rushing them, anyhow," I was absolutely holding on to Terry.
To make sure, we advanced a step or two and they promptly and swiftly withdrew.
It was easy to show what we wanted to do, and they each proudly produced a sort of strong clasp-knife from their pockets. "Yes," we said eagerly, "that's it!
Please--" We had learned quite a bit of their language, you see.
And we just begged for those knives, but they would not give them to us.
If we came a step too near they backed off, standing light and eager for flight. "It's no sort of use," I said.
It's all up--they're forty to one." It was no use to fight.
Our swift high-sweeping view from the 'plane had been most attractive, but lacked detail; and in that first day of struggle and capture, we noticed little.
And everywhere, open country, village, or city--only women.
Old women and young women and a great majority who seemed neither young nor old, but just women; young girls, also, though these, and the children, seeming to be in groups by themselves generally, were less in evidence.
We caught many glimpses of girls and children in what seemed to be schools or in playgrounds, and so far as we could judge there were no boys.
We all looked, carefully. Everyone gazed at us politely, kindly, and with eager interest.
We could catch quite a bit of the talk now, and all they said seemed pleasant enough. Well--before nightfall we were all safely back in our big room.
The damage we had done was quite ignored; the beds as smooth and comfortable as before, new clothing and towels supplied.
The only thing those women did was to illuminate the gardens at night, and to set an extra watch. But they called us to account next day.
So our flight had troubled no one; all they did was to call the inhabitants to keep an eye on our movements all along the edge of the forest between the two points.
It appeared that we were considered as guests of the country--sort of public wards.
Of course he did not tell on Terry, but he made it clear that he was ashamed of himself, and that he would now conform.
Of course one expects to begin on child-stories, but I would like something more interesting now." "Can't expect stirring romance and wild adventure without men, can you?" I asked.
Nothing irritated Terry more than to have us assume that there were no men; but there were no signs of them in the books they gave us, or the pictures. "Shut up!" he growled.
What infernal nonsense you talk!
We did not want those beards, but had so far been unable to induce them to give us any cutting instruments. "Ladies," Terry began, out of a clear sky, as it were, "are there no men in this country?" "Men?
Like you?" "Yes, men," Terry indicated his beard, and threw back his broad shoulders.
Men, real men." "No," she answered quietly.
There are no men in this country.
I do not wonder you are puzzled.
We are mothers--all of us--but there are no fathers.
We thought you would ask about that long ago--why have you not?
And does it apply to the male also?
Or is there a different term for him?" He passed this over rather hurriedly, saying that the same term would apply, but was seldom used. "No?" she said.
But one cannot mate without the other surely.
Is not each then--virgin--before mating?
Of course we know that among other animals it is not so, that there are fathers as well as mothers; and we see that you are fathers, that you come from a people who are of both kinds.
We have been waiting, you see, for you to be able to speak freely with us, and teach us about your country and the rest of the world.
All this had been scant and in outline, but they quite understood. I find I succeed very poorly in conveying the impression I would like to of these women.
And we want to teach you what we have that is novel and useful.
You can well imagine that it is a wonderful event to us, to have men among us--after two thousand years.
And we want to know about your women." What she said about our importance gave instant pleasure to Terry.
I could see by the way he lifted his head that it pleased him.
But when she spoke of our women--someway I had a queer little indescribable feeling, not like any feeling I ever had before when "women" were mentioned. "Will you tell us how it came about?
You said 'for two thousand years'--did you have men here before that?" "Yes," answered Zava. They were all quiet for a little. "You should have our full history to read--do not be alarmed--it has been made clear and short.
It took us a long time to learn how to write history.
Oh, how I should love to read yours!" She turned with flashing eager eyes, looking from one to the other of us. "It would be so wonderful--would it not?
To compare the history of two thousand years, to see what the differences are--between us, who are only mothers, and you, who are mothers and fathers, too.
The father is not very useful." "Have you no cattle--sheep--horses?
They took up too much room--we need all our land to feed our people.
It is such a little country, you know." "Whatever do you do without milk?
Terry demanded incredulously. "_Milk?_ We have milk in abundance--our own." "But--but--I mean for cooking--for grown people," Terry blundered, while they looked amazed and a shade displeased. Jeff came to the rescue.
We keep cattle for their milk, as well as for their meat," he explained.
Cow's milk is a staple article of diet. There is a great milk industry--to collect and distribute it." Still they looked puzzled.
I pointed to my outline of a cow.
The farmer milks the cow," I said, and sketched a milk pail, the stool, and in pantomime showed the man milking.
We did get away, as described, and were peacefully brought back again without, as Terry complained, even the satisfaction of hitting anybody. There were no adventures because there was nothing to fight.
There were no wild beasts in the country and very few tame ones.
Of these I might as well stop to describe the one common pet of the country.
But such cats! What do you suppose these Lady Burbanks had done with their cats?
By the most prolonged and careful selection and exclusion they had developed a race of cats that did not sing!
We hastened to assure her that they did not--drew for them our kind of headgear. "And do no men wear feathers in their hats?" "Only Indians," Jeff explained.
And he sketched a war bonnet to show them. "And soldiers," I added, drawing a military hat with plumes. They never expressed horror or disapproval, nor indeed much surprise--just a keen interest.
And the notes they made!--miles of them! But to return to our pussycats.
It was not just curiosity--they weren't a bit more curious about us than we were about them, if as much.
Why, the hunting dogs and watchdogs and sheepdogs are useful--and sleddogs of course!--and ratters, I suppose, but we don't keep dogs for their _usefulness_.
The dog is 'the friend of man,' we say--we love them." That they understood.
We love our cats that way.
They surely are our friends, and helpers, too.
You can see how intelligent and affectionate they are." It was a fact.
I'd never seen such cats, except in a few rare instances. Big, handsome silky things, friendly with everyone and devotedly attached to their special owners. "You must have a heartbreaking time drowning kittens," we suggested.
But they said, "Oh, no!
You see we care for them as you do for your valuable cattle.
The fathers are few compared to the mothers, just a few very fine ones in each town; they live quite happily in walled gardens and the houses of their friends.
But they only have a mating season once a year." "Rather hard on Thomas, isn't it?" suggested Terry. "Oh, no--truly!
You see, it is many centuries that we have been breeding the kind of cats we wanted.
They are healthy and happy and friendly, as you see.
How do you manage with your dogs?
Do they enjoy it--living without mates?
Are your dogs as uniformly healthy and sweet-tempered as our cats?" Jeff laughed, eyeing Terry mischievously.
And as to temper--there are always some dogs who bite people--especially children." That was pure malice.
All our interlocutors sat up straight at once.
They were still gentle, still restrained, but there was a note of deep amazement in their voices. "Do we understand that you keep an animal--an unmated male animal--that bites children?
About how many are there of them, please?" "Thousands--in a large city," said Jeff, "and nearly every family has one in the country." Terry broke in at this.
You must not imagine they are all dangerous--it's not one in a hundred that ever bites anybody.
Why, they are the best friends of the children--a boy doesn't have half a chance that hasn't a dog to play with!" "And the girls?" asked Somel. "Oh--girls--why they like them too," he said, but his voice flatted a little.
Jeff maliciously added vivid instances he had known or read of injury and death from mad dogs. They did not scold or fuss about it.
Calm as judges, those women were. But they made notes; Moadine read them to us. "Please tell me if I have the facts correct," she said.
In your country--and in others too?" "Yes," we admitted, "in most civilized countries." "In most civilized countries a kind of animal is kept which is no longer useful--" "They are a protection," Terry insisted.
They bark if burglars try to get in." Then she made notes of "burglars" and went on: "because of the love which people bear to this animal." Zava interrupted here.
This animal is kept shut up, or chained." "Why?" suddenly asked Somel.
We keep our father cats shut up because we do not want too much fathering; but they are not chained--they have large grounds to run in." "A valuable dog would be stolen if he was let loose," I said.
We put collars on them, with the owner's name, in case they do stray.
Besides, they get into fights--a valuable dog might easily be killed by a bigger one." "I see," she said.
They fight when they meet--is that common?
We admitted that it was. "They are kept shut up, or chained.
She paused again, and asked, "Is not a dog fond of running?
Are they not built for speed?
Then we were under surveillance for three more--always with a tutor or a guard or both.
But those months were pleasant because we were really getting acquainted with the girls.
I'm not saying where, for good reasons.
They were decimated by war, driven up from their coastline till finally the reduced population, with many of the men killed in battle, occupied this hinterland, and defended it for years, in the mountain passes.
Nothing but earthquakes could destroy such architecture--huge solid blocks, holding by their own weight.
They must have had efficient workmen and enough of them in those days. They made a brave fight for their existence, but no nation can stand up against what the steamship companies call "an act of God.
While the whole fighting force was doing its best to defend their mountain pathway, there occurred a volcanic outburst, with some local tremors, and the result was the complete filling up of the pass--their only outlet.
Instead of a passage, a new ridge, sheer and high, stood between them and the sea; they were walled in, and beneath that wall lay their whole little army.
There were many of them, and but few of these would-be masters, so the young women, instead of submitting, rose in sheer desperation and slew their brutal conquerors. This sounds like Titus Andronicus, I know, but that is their account.
The mountains towered between them and their old enemies, but also between them and escape. There was no way up or down or out--they simply had to stay there.
Some were for suicide, but not the majority.
They were much surprised to learn that we were still burying--asked our reasons for it, and were much dissatisfied with what we gave.
We told them of the belief in the resurrection of the body, and they asked if our God was not as well able to resurrect from ashes as from long corruption.
We told them of how people thought it repugnant to have their loved ones burn, and they asked if it was less repugnant to have them decay.
They were inconveniently reasonable, those women. Well--that original bunch of girls set to work to clean up the place and make their living as best they could.
Some of the remaining slave women rendered invaluable service, teaching such trades as they knew.
Of course they all thought there must be a man somewhere, but none was found.
Then they decided it must be a direct gift from the gods, and placed the proud mother in the Temple of Maaia--their Goddess of Motherhood--under strict watch.
There were some five or six hundred of them, and they were harem-bred; yet for the few preceding generations they had been reared in the atmosphere of such heroic struggle that the stock must have been toughened somewhat.
The whole little nation of women surrounded them with loving service, and waited, between a boundless hope and an equally boundless despair, to see if they, too, would be mothers. And they were!
As fast as they reached the age of twenty-five they began bearing.
Each of them, like her mother, bore five daughters.
Presently there were twenty-five New Women, Mothers in their own right, and the whole spirit of the country changed from mourning and mere courageous resignation to proud joy.
Their little country was quite safe. Their farms and gardens were all in full production.
Such industries as they had were in careful order.
One family, all descended from one mother!
To them the longed-for motherhood was not only a personal joy, but a nation's hope.
Their twenty-five daughters in turn, with a stronger hope, a richer, wider outlook, with the devoted love and care of all the surviving population, grew up as a holy sisterhood, their whole ardent youth looking forward to their great office.
A lot of traditions as old as Herodotus--and about as trustworthy!" he said.
It's likely women--just a pack of women--would have hung together like that!
We all know women can't organize--that they scrap like anything--are frightfully jealous." "But these New Ladies didn't have anyone to be jealous of, remember," drawled Jeff. "That's a likely story," Terry sneered. "Why don't you invent a likelier one?
Here _are_ the women--nothing but women, and you yourself admit there's no trace of a man in the country.
This was after we had been about a good deal. "I'll admit that," he growled.
And it's a big miss, too.
There's not only no fun without 'em--no real sport--no competition; but these women aren't _womanly_.
You know they aren't." That kind of talk always set Jeff going; and I gradually grew to side with him.
Then you don't call a breed of women whose one concern is motherhood--womanly?" he asked. "Indeed I don't," snapped Terry.
What does a man care for motherhood--when he hasn't a ghost of a chance at fatherhood?
And besides--what's the good of talking sentiment when we are just men together?
What a man wants of women is a good deal more than all this 'motherhood'!" We were as patient as possible with Terry.
He had lived about nine months among the "Colonels" when he made that outburst; and with no chance at any more strenuous excitement than our gymnastics gave us--save for our escape fiasco.
I don't suppose Terry had ever lived so long with neither Love, Combat, nor Danger to employ his superabundant energies, and he was irritable.
These women, whose essential distinction of motherhood was the dominant note of their whole culture, were strikingly deficient in what we call "femininity.
But Terry came to no such conclusion. "Just you wait till I get out!" he muttered. Then we both cautioned him.
Look here, Terry, my boy!
You be careful! They've been mighty good to us--but do you remember the anesthesia?
If you do any mischief in this virgin land, beware of the vengeance of the Maiden Aunts!
It won't be forever." To return to the history: They began at once to plan and built for their children, all the strength and intelligence of the whole of them devoted to that one thing.
Each girl, of course, was reared in full knowledge of her Crowning Office, and they had, even then, very high ideas of the molding powers of the mother, as well as those of education. Such high ideals as they had!
Beauty, Health, Strength, Intellect, Goodness--for those they prayed and worked. They had no enemies; they themselves were all sisters and friends.
Then, as they grew more intelligent, this had turned into a sort of Maternal Pantheism. Here was Mother Earth, bearing fruit.
All that they ate was fruit of motherhood, from seed or egg or their product.
They had had no kings, and no priests, and no aristocracies.
They were sisters, and as they grew, they grew together--not by competition, but by united action. We tried to put in a good word for competition, and they were keenly interested.
Terry was very strong on that point. "No stimulus to industry," they repeated, with that puzzled look we had learned to know so well. "_Stimulus?
To Industry?_ But don't you _like_ to work?" "No man would work unless he had to," Terry declared. "Oh, no _man!_ You mean that is one of your sex distinctions?" "No, indeed!" he said hastily.
No one, I mean, man or woman, would work without incentive.
Competition is the--the motor power, you see." "It is not with us," they explained gently, "so it is hard for us to understand.
Do you mean, for instance, that with you no mother would work for her children without the stimulus of competition?" No, he admitted that he did not mean that.
And there are two of you--the two sexes--to love and help one another.
It must be a rich and wonderful world.
Tell us--what is the work of the world, that men do--which we have not here?" "Oh, everything," Terry said grandly.
The men do everything, with us." He squared his broad shoulders and lifted his chest.
We do not allow our women to work.
Women are loved--idolized--honored--kept in the home to care for the children." "What is 'the home'?" asked Somel a little wistfully. But Zava begged: "Tell me first, do _no_ women work, really?" "Why, yes," Terry admitted.
Some have to, of the poorer sort." "About how many--in your country?" "About seven or eight million," said Jeff, as mischievous as ever. CHAPTER 6. Comparisons Are Odious I had always been proud of my country, of course.
And they are all _poor_.
What is _poor_, exactly?" "Ours is the best country in the world as to poverty," Terry told them. "We do not have the wretched paupers and beggars of the older countries, I assure you.
Why, European visitors tell us, we don't know what poverty is." "Neither do we," answered Zava.
Won't you tell us?" Terry put it up to me, saying I was the sociologist, and I explained that the laws of nature require a struggle for existence, and that in the struggle the fittest survive, and the unfit perish.
And two-thirds are the ones who are--how was it you so beautifully put it?--'loved, honored, kept in the home to care for the children.
This inferior one-third have no children, I suppose?" Jeff--he was getting as bad as they were--solemnly replied that, on the contrary, the poorer they were, the more children they had.
That too, he explained, was a law of nature: "Reproduction is in inverse proportion to individuation." "These 'laws of nature,'" Zava gently asked, "are they all the laws you have?" "I should say not!" protested Terry.
We have systems of law that go back thousands and thousands of years--just as you do, no doubt," he finished politely. "Oh no," Moadine told him.
We have no laws over a hundred years old, and most of them are under twenty.
In a few weeks more," she continued, "we are going to have the pleasure of showing you over our little land and explaining everything you care to know about.
We want you to see our people." "And I assure you," Somel added, "that our people want to see you." Terry brightened up immensely at this news, and reconciled himself to the renewed demands upon our capacity as teachers.
Indeed, when it came to the simpler and more concrete sciences, wherein the subject matter was at hand and they had but to exercise their minds upon it, the results were surprising.
Out of that same pocket reference book of mine came facts and figures which were seized upon and placed in right relation with unerring acumen. Even Terry grew interested in this work.
If we can keep this up, they'll be having us lecture to all the girls' schools and colleges--how about that?" he suggested to us.
It was some time before we were allowed to meet the young women. "Do you mind telling what you intend to do with us?
Terry burst forth one day, facing the calm and friendly Moadine with that funny half-blustering air of his.
At first he used to storm and flourish quite a good deal, but nothing seemed to amuse them more; they would gather around and watch him as if it was an exhibition, politely, but with evident interest.
So he learned to check himself, and was almost reasonable in his bearing--but not quite. She announced smoothly and evenly: "Not in the least.
I thought it was quite plain.
We are trying to learn of you all we can, and to teach you what you are willing to learn of our country." "Is that all?" he insisted. She smiled a quiet enigmatic smile.
He had thought as much, inwardly; but he pushed the question.
Why should you be afraid?
The danger is quite the other way.
You are but men, three men, in a country where the whole population are mothers--or are going to be. Motherhood means to us something which I cannot yet discover in any of the countries of which you tell us.
You have spoken"--she turned to Jeff, "of Human Brotherhood as a great idea among you, but even that I judge is far from a practical expression?" Jeff nodded rather sadly.
Every step of our advance is always considered in its effect on them--on the race.
You see, we are _Mothers_," she repeated, as if in that she had said it all. "I don't see how that fact--which is shared by all women--constitutes any risk to us," Terry persisted.
You mean they would defend their children from attack.
Then they suffered the loss of everything masculine, and supposed at first that all human power and safety had gone too.
It's impossible!" he would insist.
Women cannot cooperate--it's against nature." When we urged the obvious facts he would say: "Fiddlesticks!" or "Hang your facts--I tell you it can't be done!
And we never succeeded in shutting him up till Jeff dragged in the hymenoptera. "'Go to the ant, thou sluggard'--and learn something," he said triumphantly.
Don't they cooperate pretty well?
This place is just like an enormous anthill--you know an anthill is nothing but a nursery.
Don't they manage to cooperate and love one another? As the birds do love the Spring, Or the bees their careful king, as that precious Constable had it.
Just show me a combination of male creatures, bird, bug, or beast, that works as well, will you?
Or one of our masculine countries where the people work together as well as they do here!
I tell you, women are the natural cooperators, not men!" Terry had to learn a good many things he did not want to.
To go back to my little analysis of what happened: They developed all this close inter-service in the interests of their children.
To do the best work they had to specialize, of course; the children needed spinners and weavers, farmers and gardeners, carpenters and masons, as well as mothers. Then came the filling up of the place.
When a population multiplies by five every thirty years it soon reaches the limits of a country, especially a small one like this.
They very soon eliminated all the grazing cattle--sheep were the last to go, I believe.
They sat down in council together and thought it out.
Very clear, strong thinkers they were.
They said: "With our best endeavors this country will support about so many people, with the standard of peace, comfort, health, beauty, and progress we demand.
That is all the people we will make." There you have it.
Mother-love with them was not a brute passion, a mere "instinct," a wholly personal feeling; it was--a religion. It included that limitless feeling of sisterhood, that wide unity in service, which was so difficult for us to grasp.
But these women were working all together at the grandest of tasks--they were Making People--and they made them well. There followed a period of "negative eugenics" which must have been an appalling sacrifice.
We were as friendly by that time as I had ever been in my life with any woman.
A mighty comfortable soul she was, giving one the nice smooth mother-feeling a man likes in a woman, and yet giving also the clear intelligence and dependableness I used to assume to be masculine qualities.
We had talked volumes already. "See here," said I.
Here was this dreadful period when they got far too thick, and decided to limit the population.
I gathered that each woman had five.
You have no tyrannical husbands to hold in check--and you surely do not destroy the unborn--" The look of ghastly horror she gave me I shall never forget.
She started from her chair, pale, her eyes blazing. "Destroy the unborn--!" she said in a hard whisper.
Do men do that in your country?" "Men!
I began to answer, rather hotly, and then saw the gulf before me.
None of us wanted these women to think that _our_ women, of whom we boasted so proudly, were in any way inferior to them.
I am ashamed to say that I equivocated.
I told her of certain criminal types of women--perverts, or crazy, who had been known to commit infanticide.
But we did work it out.
You see, before a child comes to one of us there is a period of utter exaltation--the whole being is uplifted and filled with a concentrated desire for that child.
We learned to look forward to that period with the greatest caution.
Often our young women, those to whom motherhood had not yet come, would voluntarily defer it.
Her wise sweet face grew deeply, reverently tender. "We soon grew to see that mother-love has more than one channel of expression.
I think the reason our children are so--so fully loved, by all of us, is that we never--any of us--have enough of our own." This seemed to me infinitely pathetic, and I said so.
To hear a lot of women talk about "our children"!
This they had been at work on, uninterruptedly, for some fifteen hundred years.
Do you wonder they were nice people? Physiology, hygiene, sanitation, physical culture--all that line of work had been perfected long since.
A close-trimmed beard is certainly more comfortable than a full one.
Razors, naturally, they could not supply. "With so many old women you'd think there'd be some razors," sneered Terry.
A less feminine lot I never saw.
A motherliness which dominated society, which influenced every art and industry, which absolutely protected all childhood, and gave to it the most perfect care and training, did not seem motherly--to Terry. We had become well used to the clothes.
They were quite as comfortable as our own--in some ways more so--and undeniably better looking.
As to pockets, they left nothing to be desired.
That second garment was fairly quilted with pockets.
Only our special tutors, and we got on famously with them.
Jeff said he loved Zava like an aunt--"only jollier than any aunt I ever saw"; Somel and I were as chummy as could be--the best of friends; but it was funny to watch Terry and Moadine.
She was patient with him, and courteous, but it was like the patience and courtesy of some great man, say a skilled, experienced diplomat, with a schoolgirl.
When she dropped an argument he always thought he had silenced her; when she laughed he thought it tribute to his wit. I hated to admit to myself how much Terry had sunk in my esteem.
Jeff felt it too, I am sure; but neither of us admitted it to the other. At home we had measured him with other men, and, though we knew his failings, he was by no means an unusual type.
We knew his virtues too, and they had always seemed more prominent than the faults.
Measured among women--our women at home, I mean--he had always stood high.
But here he was all out of drawing. Moadine was a big woman, with a balanced strength that seldom showed. Her eye was as quietly watchful as a fencer's.
Needless to say, he called Jeff's teacher "Java," and sometimes "Mocha," or plain "Coffee"; when specially mischievous, "Chicory," and even "Postum.
A good many of us have another, as we get on in life--a descriptive one.
That is the name we earn.
Sometimes even that is changed, or added to, in an unusually rich life.
Such as our present Land Mother--what you call president or king, I believe.
She was called Mera, even as a child; that means 'thinker.
Later there was added Du--Du-Mera--the wise thinker, and now we all know her as O-du-mera--great and wise thinker.
You shall meet her." "No surnames at all then?" pursued Terry, with his somewhat patronizing air.
No family name?" "Why no," she said.
We are all descended from a common source--all one 'family' in reality.
You see, our comparatively brief and limited history gives us that advantage at least." "But does not each mother want her own child to bear her name?
I asked. "No--why should she?
The child has its own." "Why for--for identification--so people will know whose child she is." "We keep the most careful records," said Somel.
Each one of us has our exact line of descent all the way back to our dear First Mother.
There are many reasons for doing that.
But as to everyone knowing which child belongs to which mother--why should she?" Here, as in so many other instances, we were led to feel the difference between the purely maternal and the paternal attitude of mind.
The element of personal pride seemed strangely lacking. "How about your other works?" asked Jeff.
Don't you sign your names to them--books and statues and so on?" "Yes, surely, we are all glad and proud to.
Not only books and statues, but all kinds of work.
You will find little names on the houses, on the furniture, on the dishes sometimes.
We have pride enough in our work." "Then why not in your children?" urged Jeff. "But we have!
We're magnificently proud of them," she insisted. "Then why not sign 'em?" said Terry triumphantly. Moadine turned to him with her slightly quizzical smile.
Because the finished product is not a private one.
When they are babies, we do speak of them, at times, as 'Essa's Lato,' or 'Novine's Amel'; but that is merely descriptive and conversational.
We were not prepared to show our way was better. There was growing in our minds, at least in Jeff's and mine, a keen appreciation of the advantages of this strange country and its management.
We laid most of it to his nerves. He certainly was irritable. The most conspicuous feature of the whole land was the perfection of its food supply.
We had begun to notice from that very first walk in the forest, the first partial view from our 'plane.
Now we were taken to see this mighty garden, and shown its methods of culture. The country was about the size of Holland, some ten or twelve thousand square miles.
One could lose a good many Hollands along the forest-smothered flanks of those mighty mountains.
They had a population of about three million--not a large one, but quality is something.
This they had found in their work with plants, and fully proven in their own case. Physically they were more alike than we, as they lacked all morbid or excessive types.
They were tall, strong, healthy, and beautiful as a race, but differed individually in a wide range of feature, coloring, and expression. "But surely the most important growth is in mind--and in the things we make," urged Somel.
Do you find your physical variation accompanied by a proportionate variation in ideas, feelings, and products?
We have always thought it a grave initial misfortune to have lost half our little world.
Perhaps that is one reason why we have so striven for conscious improvement." "But acquired traits are not transmissible," Terry declared.
Weissman has proved that." They never disputed our absolute statements, only made notes of them. "If that is so, then our improvement must be due either to mutation, or solely to education," she gravely pursued.
And in the amazing psychic growth you have made.
Having known in our lives several people who showed the same delicate courtesy and were equally pleasant to live with, at least when they wore their "company manners," we had assumed that our companions were a carefully chosen few.
But they had not thought so.
To them the country was a unit--it was theirs.
They themselves were a unit, a conscious group; they thought in terms of the community.
As such, their time-sense was not limited to the hopes and ambitions of an individual life.
Yet this seemed to them the simplest common sense, like a man's plowing up an inferior lawn and reseeding it.
Now every tree bore fruit--edible fruit, that is.
In the case of one tree, in which they took especial pride, it had originally no fruit at all--that is, none humanly edible--yet was so beautiful that they wished to keep it.
Here was this little shut-in piece of land where one would have thought an ordinary people would have been starved out long ago or reduced to an annual struggle for life.
These careful culturists had worked out a perfect scheme of refeeding the soil with all that came out of it.
It really was child's play for those profound educators to work out a painfully accurate estimate of our conditions--in some lines.
Of course they can't understand a Man's World!
They aren't human--they're just a pack of Fe-Fe-Females!
This was after he had to admit their parthenogenesis. "I wish our grandfatherly minds had managed as well," said Jeff.
Do you really think it's to our credit that we have muddled along with all our poverty and disease and the like?
They have peace and plenty, wealth and beauty, goodness and intellect.
What'll they be like?" And we had been cocksure as to the inevitable limitations, the faults and vices, of a lot of women.
The whole thing's deuced unnatural--I'd say impossible if we weren't in it.
And an unnatural condition's sure to have unnatural results.
You'll find some awful characteristics--see if you don't!
For instance--we don't know yet what they do with their criminals--their defectives--their aged.
You notice we haven't seen any!
The delicious food had been eaten, a plate of fruit still before us.
We could look out on one side over a stretch of open country, quietly rich and lovely; on the other, the garden, with tables here and there, far apart enough for privacy.
Let me say right here that with all their careful "balance of population" there was no crowding in this country.
There was room, space, a sunny breezy freedom everywhere. Somel set her chin upon her hand, her elbow on the low wall beside her, and looked off over the fair land. "Of course we have faults--all of us," she said.
In one way you might say that we have more than we used to--that is, our standard of perfection seems to get farther and farther away.
But we are not discouraged, because our records do show gain--considerable gain. "When we began--even with the start of one particularly noble mother--we inherited the characteristics of a long race-record behind her.
And they cropped out from time to time--alarmingly.
But it is--yes, quite six hundred years since we have had what you call a 'criminal.' "We have, of course, made it our first business to train out, to breed out, when possible, the lowest types." "Breed out?
How could you--with parthenogenesis?" "If the girl showing the bad qualities had still the power to appreciate social duty, we appealed to her, by that, to renounce motherhood.
Some of the few worst types were, fortunately, unable to reproduce.
But if the fault was in a disproportionate egotism--then the girl was sure she had the right to have children, even that hers would be better than others." "I can see that," I said.
And then she would be likely to rear them in the same spirit." "That we never allowed," answered Somel quietly. "Allowed?
But education is our highest art, only allowed to our highest artists." "Education?
I mean by motherhood not only child-bearing, but the care of babies." "The care of babies involves education, and is entrusted only to the most fit," she repeated. "Then you separate mother and child!
I cried in cold horror, something of Terry's feeling creeping over me, that there must be something wrong among these many virtues. "Not usually," she patiently explained.
You see, almost every woman values her maternity above everything else.
Each girl holds it close and dear, an exquisite joy, a crowning honor, the most intimate, most personal, most precious thing.
I said, not getting her drift. "Does mother-love urge mothers--with you--to fill their own children's teeth?
Or to wish to?" "Why no--of course not," I protested.
But that is a highly specialized craft.
Surely the care of babies is open to any woman--any mother!" "We do not think so," she gently replied.
Not in the least bereaved.
It is her baby still--it is with her--she has not lost it.
But she is not the only one to care for it.
There are others whom she knows to be wiser.
She knows it because she has studied as they did, practiced as they did, and honors their real superiority.
For the child's sake, she is glad to have for it this highest care." I was unconvinced.
Besides, this was only hearsay; I had yet to see the motherhood of Herland. CHAPTER 8. The Girls of Herland At last Terry's ambition was realized.
We were invited, always courteously and with free choice on our part, to address general audiences and classes of girls. I remember the first time--and how careful we were about our clothes, and our amateur barbering.
Terry, in particular, was fussy to a degree about the cut of his beard, and so critical of our combined efforts, that we handed him the shears and told him to please himself.
We began to rather prize those beards of ours; they were almost our sole distinction among those tall and sturdy women, with their cropped hair and sexless costume.
Jeff looked more like--well, like a Huguenot Lover; and I don't know what I looked like, only that I felt very comfortable.
We know nothing but such science as we have worked out for ourselves, just the brain work of one small half-country; and you, we gather, have helped one another all over the globe, sharing your discoveries, pooling your progress.
How wonderful, how supremely beautiful your civilization must be!" Somel gave a further suggestion. "You do not have to begin all over again, as you did with us.
We have made a sort of digest of what we have learned from you, and it has been eagerly absorbed, all over the country.
Perhaps you would like to see our outline?" We were eager to see it, and deeply impressed.
To us, at first, these women, unavoidably ignorant of what to us was the basic commonplace of knowledge, had seemed on the plane of children, or of savages.
The memorable fact is what they taught us, or some faint glimpse of it.
We were impatient and said as much, at which I saw a flickering little smile cross Moadine's face.
Even then, with all those eager young things waiting to talk to us, a sudden question crossed my mind: "What was their point of view?
What did they think of us?
We learned that later. Terry plunged in among those young creatures with a sort of rapture, somewhat as a glad swimmer takes to the sea.
Jeff, with a rapt look on his high-bred face, approached as to a sacrament.
But I was a little chilled by that last thought of mine, and kept my eyes open.
And I could see, just in snatches, of course, how his suave and masterful approach seemed to irritate them; his too-intimate glances were vaguely resented, his compliments puzzled and annoyed.
Sometimes a girl would flush, not with drooped eyelids and inviting timidity, but with anger and a quick lift of the head.
At home I never was "popular.
I had my girl friends, good ones, but they were friends--nothing else.
Also they were of somewhat the same clan, not popular in the sense of swarming admirers.
But here, to my astonishment, I found my crowd was the largest. I have to generalize, of course, rather telescoping many impressions; but the first evening was a good sample of the impression we made.
Jeff had a following, if I may call it that, of the more sentimental--though that's not the word I want.
We could hardly blame him. "Girls!" he burst forth, when that evening was over and we were by ourselves once more.
Call those _girls!_" "Most delightful girls, I call them," said Jeff, his blue eyes dreamily contented. "What do _you_ call them?
Nothing but boys, most of 'em.
A standoffish, disagreeable lot at that.
No girls at all." He was angry and severe, not a little jealous, too, I think.
Afterward, when he found out just what it was they did not like, he changed his manner somewhat and got on better.
For, in spite of his criticism, they were girls, and, furthermore, all the girls there were!
Always excepting our three!--with whom we presently renewed our acquaintance. When it came to courtship, which it soon did, I can of course best describe my own--and am least inclined to.
Evidently highly civilized. Doubtless possessed of much valuable knowledge.
Catch them if possible; tame and train them if necessary.
This may be a chance to re-establish a bi-sexual state for our people." They were not afraid of us--three million highly intelligent women--or two million, counting only grown-ups--were not likely to be afraid of three young men.
No wonder their questions were hard to answer.
But I am sorry to say, when we were at last brought out and--exhibited (I hate to call it that, but that's what it was), there was no rush of takers.
They were not each choosing a lover; they hadn't the faintest idea of love--sex-love, that is.
The reason for my own comparative success was at first far from pleasing to my pride. "We like you the best," Somel told me, "because you seem more like us." "More like a lot of women!
I thought to myself disgustedly, and then remembered how little like "women," in our derogatory sense, they were. She was smiling at me, reading my thought. "We can quite see that we do not seem like--women--to you.
Of course, in a bi-sexual race the distinctive feature of each sex must be intensified.
But surely there are characteristics enough which belong to People, aren't there?
That's what I mean about you being more like us--more like People.
We feel at ease with you." Jeff's difficulty was his exalted gallantry.
He idealized women, and was always looking for a chance to "protect" or to "serve" them.
These needed neither protection nor service.
I thought of her most.
Afterward I turned to her like a friend when we met for the third time, and continued the acquaintance.
While Jeff's ultra-devotion rather puzzled Celis, really put off their day of happiness, while Terry and Alima quarreled and parted, re-met and re-parted, Ellador and I grew to be close friends. We talked and talked.
We took long walks together.
She showed me things, explained them, interpreted much that I had not understood.
Through her sympathetic intelligence I became more and more comprehending of the spirit of the people of Herland, more and more appreciative of its marvelous inner growth as well as outer perfection. I ceased to feel a stranger, a prisoner.
There was a sense of understanding, of identity, of purpose.
But this one-- At first I never even thought of her "in that way," as the girls have it.
I had not come to the country with any Turkish-harem intentions, and I was no woman-worshipper like Jeff.
I just liked that girl "as a friend," as we say.
That friendship grew like a tree.
She was _such_ a good sport!
We did all kinds of things together.
I had never known there could be such a human being. So--great.
She was a forester--one of the best--but it was not that gift I mean.
When I say _great_, I mean great--big, all through.
If I had known more of those women, as intimately, I should not have found her so unique; but even among them she was noble.
I felt my own soul rise and lift its wings, as it were.
It seemed as if I understood--as I never had before--as if I could Do things--as if I too could grow--if she would help me.
And then It came--to both of us, all at once. A still day--on the edge of the world, their world.
Then gradually develops such comradeship as the two temperaments allow.
There was no sex-feeling to appeal to, or practically none.
There was no accepted standard of what was "manly" and what was "womanly." When Jeff said, taking the fruit basket from his adored one, "A woman should not carry anything," Celis said, "Why?" with the frankest amazement.
He could not look that fleet-footed, deep-chested young forester in the face and say, "Because she is weaker.
Are the women in your country so weak that they could not carry such a thing as that?" "It is a convention," he said.
We assume that motherhood is a sufficient burden--that men should carry all the others." "What a beautiful feeling!" she said, her blue eyes shining. "Does it work?" asked Alima, in her keen, swift way.
Do all men in all countries carry everything?
Or is it only in yours?" "Don't be so literal," Terry begged lazily.
Why aren't you willing to be worshipped and waited on?
Also, between us, we made things clearer to Jeff and Celis.
But Terry would not listen to reason. He was madly in love with Alima.
Terry was a past master in this process.
He tried it here, and Alima was so affronted, so repelled, that it was weeks before he got near enough to try again. The more coldly she denied him, the hotter his determination; he was not used to real refusal.
The approach of flattery she dismissed with laughter, gifts and such "attentions" we could not bring to bear, pathos and complaint of cruelty stirred only a reasoning inquiry.
It took Terry a long time. I doubt if she ever accepted her strange lover as fully as did Celis and Ellador theirs.
Jeff was for bringing them to our country for the religious and the civil ceremony, but neither Celis nor the others would consent. "We can't expect them to want to go with us--yet," said Terry sagely. "Wait a bit, boys.
We've got to take 'em on their own terms--if at all." This, in rueful reminiscence of his repeated failures. "But our time's coming," he added cheerfully.
Back of that, only traditions of the harem.
Patriotism is largely pride, and very largely combativeness.
Their idea of education was the special training they took, when half grown up, under experts.
A man wants a home of his own, with his wife and family in it." "Staying in it?
All the time?" asked Ellador.
Not imprisoned, surely!" "Of course not!
Living there--naturally," he answered. "What does she do there--all the time?
Alima had her notebook out now, and a rather firm set of lip.
Terry began to dodge. "There is no set number, my dear," he explained.
One or two or no children, and three or four servants.
Now what do those women _do?_" We explained as best we might.
We talked of "social duties," disingenuously banking on their not interpreting the words as we did; we talked of hospitality, entertainment, and various "interests.
All the time we knew that to these large-minded women whose whole mental outlook was so collective, the limitations of a wholly personal life were inconceivable. "We cannot really understand it," Ellador concluded.
We are only half a people.
We have our woman-ways and they have their man-ways and their both-ways.
We have worked out a system of living which is, of course, limited.
They must have a broader, richer, better one.
I should like to see it." "You shall, dearest," I whispered. "There's nothing to smoke," complained Terry.
He was in the midst of a prolonged quarrel with Alima, and needed a sedative.
These blessed women have no pleasant vices.
I wish we could get out of here!" This wish was vain.
We were always under a certain degree of watchfulness.
We were free--but there was a string to it. "They've no unpleasant ones, either," Jeff reminded him. "Wish they had!
They've neither the vices of men, nor the virtues of women--they're neuters!" "You know better than that.
Don't talk nonsense," said I, severely. I was thinking of Ellador's eyes when they gave me a certain look, a look she did not at all realize. Jeff was equally incensed.
I don't know what 'virtues of women' you miss. Seems to me they have all of them." "They've no modesty," snapped Terry.
No patience, no submissiveness, none of that natural yielding which is woman's greatest charm." I shook my head pityingly.
Go and apologize and make friends again, Terry.
You've got a grouch, that's all.
These women have the virtue of humanity, with less of its faults than any folks I ever saw.
As for patience--they'd have pitched us over the cliffs the first day we lit among 'em, if they hadn't that." "There are no--distractions," he grumbled.
Nowhere a man can go and cut loose a bit.
It's an everlasting parlor and nursery." "And workshop," I added.
And school, and office, and laboratory, and studio, and theater, and--home." "_Home!_" he sneered.
There isn't a home in the whole pitiful place." "There isn't anything else, and you know it," Jeff retorted hotly.
I never saw, I never dreamed of, such universal peace and good will and mutual affection." "Oh, well, of course, if you like a perpetual Sunday school, it's all very well.
But I like Something Doing.
Here it's all done." There was something to this criticism.
The years of pioneering lay far behind them.
Theirs was a civilization in which the initial difficulties had long since been overcome.
The untroubled peace, the unmeasured plenty, the steady health, the large good will and smooth management which ordered everything, left nothing to overcome.
It was like a pleasant family in an old established, perfectly run country place. I liked it because of my eager and continued interest in the sociological achievements involved.
If there is no struggle, there is no life--that's all." "You're talking nonsense--masculine nonsense," the peaceful Jeff replied.
He was certainly a warm defender of Herland.
Ants don't raise their myriads by a struggle, do they?
Or the bees?" "Oh, if you go back to insects--and want to live in an anthill--!
I tell you the higher grades of life are reached only through struggle--combat. There's no Drama here.
They make me sick." He rather had us there.
The drama of the country was--to our taste--rather flat.
You see, they lacked the sex motive and, with it, jealousy.
There was a most impressive array of pageantry, of processions, a sort of grand ritual, with their arts and their religion broadly blended.
The very babies joined in it.
Let me try again to give, if I can, a faint sense of the difference in the life view--the background and basis on which their culture rested. Ellador told me a lot about it.
She took me to see the children, the growing girls, the special teachers.
She picked out books for me to read.
From the first memory, they knew Peace, Beauty, Order, Safety, Love, Wisdom, Justice, Patience, and Plenty.
By "plenty" I mean that the babies grew up in an environment which met their needs, just as young fawns might grow up in dewy forest glades and brook-fed meadows.
And they enjoyed it as frankly and utterly as the fawns would. They found themselves in a big bright lovely world, full of the most interesting and enchanting things to learn about and to do.
The people everywhere were friendly and polite.
No Herland child ever met the overbearing rudeness we so commonly show to children.
The things they learned were _related_, from the first; related to one another, and to the national prosperity. "It was a butterfly that made me a forester," said Ellador.
I was about eleven years old, and I found a big purple-and-green butterfly on a low flower.
She took it from me with a little cry of delight.
Oh, you blessed child,' she said.
Of course I liked obernuts, and said so.
It is our best food-nut, you know.
This is a female of the obernut moth,' she told me.
We have been trying to exterminate them for centuries.
If you had not caught this one, it might have laid eggs enough to raise worms enough to destroy thousands of our nut trees--thousands of bushels of nuts--and make years and years of trouble for us.' "Everybody congratulated me.
The children all over the country were told to watch for that moth, if there were any more.
I was shown the history of the creature, and an account of the damage it used to do and of how long and hard our foremothers had worked to save that tree for us.
I grew a foot, it seemed to me, and determined then and there to be a forester." This is but an instance; she showed me many.
I could have spent years following the delicate subtleties, the smooth simplicities with which they had bent that great art to the service of the child mind. We have two life cycles: the man's and the woman's.
The most impressive part of their whole culture beyond this perfect system of child-rearing was the range of interests and associations open to them all, for life.
The youngest ones, rosy fatlings in their mothers' arms, or sleeping lightly in the flower-sweet air, seemed natural enough, save that they never cried.
The steady level of good health gave them all that natural stimulus we used to call "animal spirits"--an odd contradiction in terms.
I did not mind seeming foolish to Somel--she was used to it. "I want a chapter of explanation," I told her.
You know my stupidities by heart, and I do not want to show them to Ellador--she thinks me so wise!" She smiled delightedly.
It is beautiful to see," she told me, "this new wonderful love between you.
The whole country is interested, you know--how can we help it!" I had not thought of that.
We say: "All the world loves a lover," but to have a couple of million people watching one's courtship--and that a difficult one--was rather embarrassing. "Tell me about your theory of education," I said.
Make it short and easy.
All our children do that--they love to." That puzzled me again.
If they loved to do it, how could it be educational? "Our theory is this," she went on carefully.
Here is a young human being.
The mind is as natural a thing as the body, a thing that grows, a thing to use and enjoy.
We seek to nourish, to stimulate, to exercise the mind of a child as we do the body.
There are the two main divisions in education--you have those of course?--the things it is necessary to know, and the things it is necessary to do." "To do?
Mental exercises, you mean?" "Yes.
The other division is in arranging a properly graduated series of exercises which will best develop each mind; the common faculties we all have, and most carefully, the especial faculties some of us have.
You do this also, do you not?" "In a way," I said rather lamely.
We have not so subtle and highly developed a system as you, not approaching it; but tell me more.
As to the information--how do you manage?
It appears that all of you know pretty much everything--is that right?" This she laughingly disclaimed.
We are, as you soon found out, extremely limited in knowledge.
I wish you could realize what a ferment the country is in over the new things you have told us; the passionate eagerness among thousands of us to go to your country and learn--learn--learn!
But what we do know is readily divisible into common knowledge and special knowledge.
The common knowledge we have long since learned to feed into the minds of our little ones with no waste of time or strength; the special knowledge is open to all, as they desire it.
Some of us specialize in one line only.
But most take up several--some for their regular work, some to grow with." "To grow with?" "Yes.
When one settles too close in one kind of work there is a tendency to atrophy in the disused portions of the brain.
We like to keep on learning, always." "What do you study?" "As much as we know of the different sciences.
We have, within our limits, a good deal of knowledge of anatomy, physiology, nutrition--all that pertains to a full and beautiful personal life.
We have our botany and chemistry, and so on--very rudimentary, but interesting; our own history, with its accumulating psychology." "You put psychology with history--not with personal life?" "Of course.
It is ours; it is among and between us, and it changes with the succeeding and improving generations.
We are at work, slowly and carefully, developing our whole people along these lines.
To see the thousands of babies improving, showing stronger clearer minds, sweeter dispositions, higher capacities--don't you find it so in your country?" This I evaded flatly.
I remembered the cheerless claim that the human mind was no better than in its earliest period of savagery, only better informed--a statement I had never believed. "We try most earnestly for two powers," Somel continued.
The two that seem to us basically necessary for all noble life: a clear, far-reaching judgment, and a strong well-used will.
We spend our best efforts, all through childhood and youth, in developing these faculties, individual judgment and will." "As part of your system of education, you mean?" "Exactly.
As the most valuable part.
But as early as possible, going very carefully, not to tax the mind, we provide choices, simple choices, with very obvious causes and consequences.
You've noticed the games?" I had.
The children seemed always playing something; or else, sometimes, engaged in peaceful researches of their own.
I had wondered at first when they went to school, but soon found that they never did--to their knowledge.
It was all education but no schooling. "We have been working for some sixteen hundred years, devising better and better games for children," continued Somel. I sat aghast.
Making up new ones, you mean?" "Exactly," she answered.
Don't you?" Then I remembered the kindergarten, and the "material" devised by Signora Montessori, and guardedly replied: "To some extent.
But most of our games, I told her, were very old--came down from child to child, along the ages, from the remote past. "And what is their effect?" she asked.
Do they develop the faculties you wish to encourage?" Again I remembered the claims made by the advocates of "sports," and again replied guardedly that that was, in part, the theory. "But do the children _like_ it?
Having things made up and set before them that way?
Don't they want the old games?" "You can see the children," she answered.
Being adapted to children it was at least comprehensible to adults.
They were taught, as rapidly as feasible, to use and control their own bodies, and never did I see such sure-footed, steady-handed, clear-headed little things.
If I feared at first the effects of a too intensive system of culture, that fear was dissipated by seeing the long sunny days of pure physical merriment and natural sleep in which these heavenly babies passed their first years.
They never knew they were being educated.
They did not dream that in this association of hilarious experiment and achievement they were laying the foundation for that close beautiful group feeling into which they grew so firmly with the years.
She soon found that we had many, that they varied widely, but had some points in common.
There were some common features in certain groups of religions, but the one always present was this Power, and the things which must be done or not done because of it.
And when we get a thing like that into our minds it's like--oh, like red pepper in your eyes.
So I just ran to her, blinded and almost screaming, and she took it out so quickly--so easily!" "How?
I asked, very curious. "'Why, you blessed child,' she said, 'you've got the wrong idea altogether.
You do not have to think that there ever was such a God--for there wasn't.
Or such a happening--for there wasn't.
Nor even that this hideous false idea was believed by anybody.
But only this--that people who are utterly ignorant will believe anything--which you certainly knew before.'" "Anyhow," pursued Ellador, "she turned pale for a minute when I first said it." This was a lesson to me.
No wonder this whole nation of women was peaceful and sweet in expression--they had no horrible ideas. "Surely you had some when you began," I suggested. "Oh, yes, no doubt.
For what was thought and believed by your foremothers?" "Why, no," she said.
They knew less than we do.
If we are not beyond them, we are unworthy of them--and unworthy of the children who must go beyond us." This set me thinking in good earnest.
I had always imagined--simply from hearing it said, I suppose--that women were by nature conservative.
Yet these women, quite unassisted by any masculine spirit of enterprise, had ignored their past and built daringly for the future. Ellador watched me think.
She seemed to know pretty much what was going on in my mind. "It's because we began in a new way, I suppose.
All our folks were swept away at once, and then, after that time of despair, came those wonder children--the first.
And then the whole breathless hope of us was for _their_ children--if they should have them.
I persisted. She said she couldn't talk about the difference very intelligently, not being familiar with other religions, but that theirs seemed simple enough.
Their great Mother Spirit was to them what their own motherhood was--only magnified beyond human limits.
That meant that they felt beneath and behind them an upholding, unfailing, serviceable love--perhaps it was really the accumulated mother-love of the race they felt--but it was a Power. "Just what is your theory of worship?
What is that?" I found it singularly difficult to explain.
We do things _from_ our mothers--not _for_ them.
We don't have to do things _for_ them--they don't need it, you know.
But we have to live on--splendidly--because of them; and that's the way we feel about God." I meditated again.
I thought of that God of Battles of ours, that Jealous God, that Vengeance-is-mine God.
I thought of our world-nightmare--Hell. "You have no theory of eternal punishment then, I take it?" Ellador laughed.
Her eyes were as bright as stars, and there were tears in them, too.
She was so sorry for me. "How could we?" she asked, fairly enough.
We have no punishments in life, you see, so we don't imagine them after death." "Have you _no_ punishments?
Neither for children nor criminals--such mild criminals as you have?
I urged. "Do you punish a person for a broken leg or a fever?
We credit God--our idea of God--with all that and more.
Our mothers are not angry with us--why should God be?" "Does God mean a person to you?" This she thought over a little.
Why--in trying to get close to it in our minds we personify the idea, naturally; but we certainly do not assume a Big Woman somewhere, who is God.
What we call God is a Pervading Power, you know, an Indwelling Spirit, something inside of us that we want more of.
Is your God a Big Man?" she asked innocently. "Why--yes, to most of us, I think.
Of course we call it an Indwelling Spirit just as you do, but we insist that it is Him, a Person, and a Man--with whiskers." "Whiskers?
Oh yes--because you have them!
It is in your common motherhood.
Your children grow up in a world where everybody loves them.
They find life made rich and happy for them by the diffused love and wisdom of all mothers.
So it is easy for you to think of God in the terms of a similar diffused and competent love.
I think you are far nearer right than we are." "What I cannot understand," she pursued carefully, "is your preservation of such a very ancient state of mind.
This patriarchal idea you tell me is thousands of years old?" "Oh yes--four, five, six thousand--every so many." "And you have made wonderful progress in those years--in other things?" "We certainly have.
You see, our religions come from behind us, and are initiated by some great teacher who is dead.
He is supposed to have known the whole thing and taught it, finally.
All we have to do is believe--and obey." "Who was the great Hebrew teacher?" "Oh--there it was different.
The Hebrew religion is an accumulation of extremely ancient traditions, some far older than their people, and grew by accretion down the ages.
We consider it inspired--'the Word of God.'" "How do you know it is?" "Because it says so." "Does it say so in as many words?
You have changed all your others, haven't you?" "Pretty generally," I agreed.
But this we call 'revealed religion,' and think it is final.
But tell me more about these little temples of yours," I urged.
Their relation to it, similarly, was filial, a loving appreciation and a glad fulfillment of its high purposes.
Then, being nothing if not practical, they set their keen and active minds to discover the kind of conduct expected of them.
This worked out in a most admirable system of ethics.
The principle of Love was universally recognized--and used. Patience, gentleness, courtesy, all that we call "good breeding," was part of their code of conduct.
But where they went far beyond us was in the special application of religious feeling to every field of life.
They had no ritual, no little set of performances called "divine service," save those religious pageants I have spoken of, and those were as much educational as religious, and as much social as either.
But they had a clear established connection between everything they did--and God.
It gave to the "soul" that sense of contact with the inmost force, of perception of the uttermost purpose, which we always crave.
It gave to the "heart" the blessed feeling of being loved, loved and _understood_.
It gave clear, simple, rational directions as to how we should live--and why.
Second, it gave these numerous little centers of wisdom where the least wise could go to the most wise and be helped. "It is beautiful!
It is the most practical, comforting, progressive religion I ever heard of.
You _do_ love one another--you _do_ bear one another's burdens--you _do_ realize that a little child is a type of the kingdom of heaven.
You are more Christian than any people I ever saw.
What does your religion teach about eternity?" "Nothing," said Ellador.
What is eternity?" What indeed?
I tried, for the first time in my life, to get a real hold on the idea. "It is--never stopping." "Never stopping?
She looked puzzled. "Yes, life, going on forever." "Oh--we see that, of course.
Life does go on forever, all about us." "But eternal life goes on _without dying_." "The same person?" "Yes, the same person, unending, immortal.
I was pleased to think that I had something to teach from our religion, which theirs had never promulgated. "Here?" asked Ellador.
I could see her practical mind heaping up the people, and hurriedly reassured her. "Oh no, indeed, not here--hereafter.
We must die here, of course, but then we 'enter into eternal life.
The soul lives forever." "How do you know?" she inquired. "I won't attempt to prove it to you," I hastily continued.
Let us assume it to be so.
How does this idea strike you?" Again she smiled at me, that adorable, dimpling, tender, mischievous, motherly smile of hers.
Shall I be quite, quite honest?" "You couldn't be anything else," I said, half gladly and half a little sorry.
The transparent honesty of these women was a never-ending astonishment to me. "It seems to me a singularly foolish idea," she said calmly.
And if true, most disagreeable." Now I had always accepted the doctrine of personal immortality as a thing established.
The efforts of inquiring spiritualists, always seeking to woo their beloved ghosts back again, never seemed to me necessary.
She meant it, too. "What do you _want_ it for?" she asked. "How can you _not_ want it!
Do you want to go out like a candle?
Don't you want to go on and on--growing and--and--being happy, forever?" "Why, no," she said.
I don't in the least.
I want my child--and my child's child--to go on--and they will.
Why should _I_ want to?" "But it means Heaven!
Peace and Beauty and Comfort and Love--with God.
I had never been so eloquent on the subject of religion.
She could be horrified at Damnation, and question the justice of Salvation, but Immortality--that was surely a noble faith. "Why, Van," she said, holding out her hands to me.
Why Van--darling! How splendid of you to feel it so keenly.
That's what we all want, of course--Peace and Beauty, and Comfort and Love--with God!
And Progress too, remember; Growth, always and always.
That is what our religion teaches us to want and to work for, and we do!" "But that is _here_," I said, "only for this life on earth." "Well?
There was so little, after all, that we could do for them.
As to the names, Alima, frank soul that she was, asked what good it would do. Terry, always irritating her, said it was a sign of possession.
You are going to be Mrs. Nicholson," he said.
It is because we are monogamous, you know.
Celis suddenly demanded. "Why, yes," Jeff explained.
They have their maiden names--their father's names, that is." "And what becomes of them?" asked Alima. "They change them for their husbands', my dear," Terry answered her. "Change them?
Do the husbands then take the wives' 'maiden names'?" "Oh, no," he laughed.
The man keeps his own and gives it to her, too." "Then she just loses hers and takes a new one--how unpleasant!
Alima said decidedly. Terry was good-humored about it.
You see, we love you just for yourselves--we wouldn't want you to--to pay anything.
Isn't it enough to know that you are loved personally--and just as men?" Enough or not, that was the way we were married.
We had a great triple wedding in the biggest temple of all, and it looked as if most of the nation was present.
It was very solemn and very beautiful.
Anybody'd think we were High Priests of--of Philoprogenitiveness!" he protested. "These women think of _nothing_ but children, seems to me!
We'll teach 'em!" He was so certain of what he was going to teach, and Alima so uncertain in her moods of reception, that Jeff and I feared the worst.
We tried to caution him--much good that did.
The big handsome fellow drew himself up to his full height, lifted that great chest of his, and laughed. "There are three separate marriages," he said.
Somel said softly to me, while we watched the symbolic marches. "You see, it is the dawn of a new era.
You don't know how much you mean to us.
It is not only Fatherhood--that marvelous dual parentage to which we are strangers--the miracle of union in life-giving--but it is Brotherhood.
You are the rest of the world.
You join us to our kind--to all the strange lands and peoples we have never seen.
We hope to know them--to love and help them--and to learn of them.
You cannot know!" Thousands of voices rose in the soaring climax of that great Hymn of The Coming Life.
By the great Altar of Motherhood, with its crown of fruit and flowers, stood a new one, crowned as well.
We had discussed--at least Ellador and I had--the conditions of The Great Adventure, and thought the path was clear before us.
He goes on with his business, and she adapts herself to him and to it.
Even in citizenship, by some strange hocus-pocus, that fact of birth and geography was waved aside, and the woman automatically acquired the nationality of her husband. Well--here were we, three aliens in this land of women.
What we imagined, before marriage, did not matter any more than what an average innocent young girl imagines. We found the facts to be different. It was not that they did not love us; they did, deeply and warmly.
This angel might love the man with an affection quite beyond his power of return or even of appreciation, but her ideas of service and duty would be on a very different scale from his.
More of Terry and his special troubles later.
It was hard on Terry. Jeff--well, Jeff always had a streak that was too good for this world! He's the kind that would have made a saintly priest in parentagearlier times.
He accepted the angel theory, swallowed it whole, tried to force it on us--with varying effect.
Dear old Jeff was no milksop or molly-coddle either.
He was a strong, brave, efficient man, and an excellent fighter when fighting was necessary.
But there was always this angel streak in him.
It was rather a wonder, Terry being so different, that he really loved Jeff as he did; but it happens so sometimes, in spite of the difference--perhaps because of it. As for me, I stood between.
I was no such gay Lothario as Terry, and no such Galahad as Jeff.
But for all my limitations I think I had the habit of using my brains in regard to behavior rather more frequently than either of them.
I had to use brain-power now, I can tell you. The big point at issue between us and our wives was, as may easily be imagined, in the very nature of the relation. "Wives!
Don't talk to me about wives!" stormed Terry.
They don't know what the word means." Which is exactly the fact--they didn't.
We, having no special learnings, had long since qualified as assistants.
They had, every one of them, the "two rooms and a bath" theory realized.
How could we be aloner?" This was all very true.
They only got up that ceremony to please us--please Jeff, mostly.
They've no real idea of being married." I tried my best to get Ellador's point of view, and naturally I tried to give her mine.
Of course, what we, as men, wanted to make them see was that there were other, and as we proudly said "higher," uses in this relation than what Terry called "mere parentage.
In the highest terms I knew I tried to explain this to Ellador. "Anything higher than for mutual love to hope to give life, as we did?" she said.
How is it higher?" "It develops love," I explained.
All the power of beautiful permanent mated love comes through this higher development." "Are you sure?" she asked gently.
How do you know that it was so developed?
There are some birds who love each other so that they mope and pine if separated, and never pair again if one dies, but they never mate except in the mating season.
But what of it? "Those are lower forms of life!
They have no capacity for faithful and affectionate, and apparently happy--but oh, my dear! my dear!--what can they know of such a love as draws us together?
Why, to touch you--to be near you--to come closer and closer--to lose myself in you--surely you feel it too, do you not?" I came nearer.
I seized her hands. Her eyes were on mine, tender radiant, but steady and strong.
She did not resent my attitude, did not repel it, did not in the least fear it, evidently.
There was not a shade of that timid withdrawal or pretty resistance which are so--provocative. "You see, dearest," she said, "you have to be patient with us.
We are not like the women of your country.
We are Mothers, and we are People, but we have not specialized in this line." "We" and "we" and "we"--it was so hard to get her to be personal.
They are not mere parents. They are men and women, and they love each other." "How long?" asked Ellador, rather unexpectedly. "How long?
I repeated, a little dashed.
Why as long as they live." "There is something very beautiful in the idea," she admitted, still as if she were discussing life on Mars.
This climactic expression, which, in all the other life-forms, has but the one purpose, has with you become specialized to higher, purer, nobler uses.
It has--I judge from what you tell me--the most ennobling effect on character.
And you say it has other results, stimulating all high creative work.
That must mean floods, oceans of such work, blossoming from this intense happiness of every married pair!
It is a beautiful idea!" She was silent, thinking. So was I. She slipped one hand free, and was stroking my hair with it in a gentle motherly way.
I bowed my hot head on her shoulder and felt a dim sense of peace, a restfulness which was very pleasant. "You must take me there someday, darling," she was saying.
It is not only that I love you so much, I want to see your country--your people--your mother--" she paused reverently.
Oh, how I shall love your mother!" I had not been in love many times--my experience did not compare with Terry's.
I found that much, very much, of what I had honestly supposed to be a physiological necessity was a psychological necessity--or so believed.
I found, after my ideas of what was essential had changed, that my feelings changed also.
They were women, _plus_, and so much plus that when they did not choose to let the womanness appear, you could not find it anywhere. I don't say it was easy for me; it wasn't.
But when I made appeal to her sympathies I came up against another immovable wall.
That is not the kind of high romantic love you spoke of, surely?
It is a pity, of course, that you should have to adjust your highly specialized faculties to our unspecialized ones." Confound it!
I hadn't married the nation, and I told her so.
But she only smiled at her own limitations and explained that she had to "think in we's." Confound it again!
My happiness was in the hands of a larger, sweeter womanhood than I had ever imagined.
Before our marriage my own ardor had perhaps blinded me to much of this.
I was madly in love with not so much what was there as with what I supposed to be there.
Now I found an endlessly beautiful undiscovered country to explore, and in it the sweetest wisdom and understanding.
It was this: You see, with us, women are kept as different as possible and as feminine as possible.
We men have our own world, with only men in it; we get tired of our ultra-maleness and turn gladly to the ultra-femaleness.
Also, in keeping our women as feminine as possible, we see to it that when we turn to them we find the thing we want always in evidence.
Well, the atmosphere of this place was anything but seductive.
The very numbers of these human women, always in human relation, made them anything but alluring.
I see now clearly enough why a certain kind of man, like Sir Almroth Wright, resents the professional development of women.
Only--when I had had her with me in her de-feminine capacity for a sixteen-hour day, I could go to my own room and sleep without dreaming about her. The witch!
If ever anybody worked to woo and win and hold a human soul, she did, great superwoman that she was.
I couldn't then half comprehend the skill of it, the wonder.
Of course I blame her somewhat.
She wasn't as fine a psychologist as Ellador, and what's more, I think she had a far-descended atavistic trace of more marked femaleness, never apparent till Terry called it out.
But when all is said, it doesn't excuse him.
I hadn't realized to the full Terry's character--I couldn't, being a man. The position was the same as with us, of course, only with these distinctions.
Alima, a shade more alluring, and several shades less able as a practical psychologist; Terry, a hundredfold more demanding--and proportionately less reasonable. Things grew strained very soon between them.
I fancy at first, when they were together, in her great hope of parentage and his keen joy of conquest--that Terry was inconsiderate.
In fact, I know it, from things he said. "You needn't talk to me," he snapped at Jeff one day, just before our weddings.
There never was a woman yet that did not enjoy being _mastered_.
All your pretty talk doesn't amount to a hill o'beans--I _know_.
I was a bit disquieted myself. Poor old Terry!
The things he'd learned didn't help him a heap in Herland.
His idea was to take--he thought that was the way.
He thought, he honestly believed, that women like it.
Not the women of Herland!
Not Alima! I can see her now--one day in the very first week of their marriage, setting forth to her day's work with long determined strides and hard-set mouth, and sticking close to Ellador.
But there she drew the line sharply. He came away one night, and stamped up and down the moonlit road, swearing under his breath.
I was taking a walk that night too, but I wasn't in his state of mind.
And perhaps she was a bit nervous, I don't know, but she got Moadine to come and stay next door to her.
Also, she had a sturdy assistant detailed to accompany her in her work. Terry had his own ideas, as I've tried to show.
I daresay he thought he had a right to do as he did.
Perhaps he even convinced himself that it would be better for her.
Anyhow, he hid himself in her bedroom one night... The women of Herland have no fear of men.
They are not timid in any sense.
They are not weak; and they all have strong trained athletic bodies.
I got a pretty clear account of it later from Ellador, but what we heard at the time was the noise of a tremendous struggle, and Alima calling to Moadine.
Moadine was close by and came at once; one or two more strong grave women followed. Terry dashed about like a madman; he would cheerfully have killed them--he told me that, himself--but he couldn't.
But this was not our country; it was theirs.
He called them neuters, epicenes, bloodless, sexless creatures.
He waited, grim and defiant.
The sentence was: "You must go home!" CHAPTER 12. Expelled We had all meant to go home again.
Indeed we had _not_ meant--not by any means--to stay as long as we had.
But when it came to being turned out, dismissed, sent away for bad conduct, we none of us really liked it. Terry said he did.
He professed great scorn of the penalty and the trial, as well as all the other characteristics of "this miserable half-country.
We found out later why no reserve party had arrived.
All our careful directions had been destroyed in a fire.
Parcel of old maids!" he called them. "They're all old maids--children or not.
We never spoke like that before the women.
I wouldn't take Celis there for anything on earth!" he protested.
She'd die of horror and shame to see our slums and hospitals.
How can you risk it with Ellador? You'd better break it to her gently before she really makes up her mind." Jeff was right.
I ought to have told her more fully than I did, of all the things we had to be ashamed of.
But it is very hard to bridge the gulf of as deep a difference as existed between our life and theirs.
I tried to. "Look here, my dear," I said to her.
If you are really going to my country with me, you've got to be prepared for a good many shocks.
It's not as beautiful as this--the cities, I mean, the civilized parts--of course the wild country is." "I shall enjoy it all," she said, her eyes starry with hope.
I understand it's not like ours.
I can see how monotonous our quiet life must seem to you, how much more stirring yours must be.
Oh, I just can't wait to see it!" What could I do?
It's like those little tropical islands you've told me about, shining like jewels in the big blue sea--I can't wait to see the sea!
The little island may be as perfect as a garden, but you always want to get back to your own big country, don't you?
Even if it is bad in some ways?" Ellador was more than willing.
And of course I had, at first, rather idealized my country and its ways, in describing it.
Also, I had always accepted certain evils as integral parts of our civilization and never dwelt on them at all.
Even when I tried to tell her the worst, I never remembered some things--which, when she came to see them, impressed her at once, as they had never impressed me.
It took me a long time to realize--Terry never did realize--how little it meant to them.
When we say _men, man, manly, manhood_, and all the other masculine derivatives, we have in the background of our minds a huge vague crowded picture of the world and all its activities.
To grow up and "be a man," to "act like a man"--the meaning and connotation is wide indeed.
We had learned their limited history, with its straight, smooth, upreaching lines, reaching higher and going faster up to the smooth comfort of their present life.
We had learned a little of their psychology, a much wider field than the history, but here we could not follow so readily.
This was given me with great clearness by both Ellador and Somel.
The feeling was the same--sick revulsion and horror, such as would be felt at some climactic blasphemy. They had no faintest approach to such a thing in their minds, knowing nothing of the custom of marital indulgence among us.
To parentage, I mean," she added carefully. "Yes, surely.
It is love we think of--the deep sweet love between two. Of course we want children, and children come--but that is not what we think about." "But--but--it seems so against nature!" she said.
None of the creatures we know do that.
Do other animals--in your country?" "We are not animals!
I replied with some sharpness.
At least we are something more--something higher.
This is a far nobler and more beautiful relation, as I have explained before.
Your view seems to us rather--shall I say, practical?
Merely a means to an end!
With us--oh, my dear girl--cannot you see?
It is the last, sweetest, highest consummation of mutual love." She was impressed visibly.
She trembled in my arms, as I held her close, kissing her hungrily.
It gives me a deep sympathy with what you feel, no doubt more strongly still.
But what I feel, even what you feel, dearest, does not convince me that it is right.
Until I am sure of that, of course I cannot do as you wish." Ellador, at times like this, always reminded me of Epictetus.
I will put you in prison!" said his master.
My body, you mean," replied Epictetus calmly.
I will cut your head off," said his master.
Have I said that my head could not be cut off?
I know it is hard for you.
And I begin to see--a little--how Terry was so driven to crime." "Oh, come, that's a pretty hard word for it.
After all, Alima was his wife, you know," I urged, feeling at the moment a sudden burst of sympathy for poor Terry.
Also, we really thought some things were right, or at least unavoidable, which we could readily see would be repugnant to them, and therefore did not discuss.
Again there was much of our world's life which we, being used to it, had not noticed as anything worth describing.
You see, I loved her so much that even the restrictions she so firmly established left me much happiness.
We were lovers, and there is surely delight enough in that. Do not imagine that these young women utterly refused "the Great New Hope," as they called it, that of dual parentage.
For that they had agreed to marry us, though the marrying part of it was a concession to our prejudices rather than theirs.
The New Motherhood" they called it, and the whole country knew.
There was no pleasure, no service, no honor in all the land that Celis might not have had.
Every woman of them placed motherhood not only higher than other duties, but so far higher that there were no other duties, one might almost say.
She was at first, for a brief moment, envious of her friend--a thought she put away from her at once and forever. "It is better," she said to me.
It is much better that it has not come to me yet--to us, that is.
For if I am to go with you to your country, we may have 'adventures by sea and land,' as you say [and as in truth we did], and it might not be at all safe for a baby.
So we won't try again, dear, till it is safe--will we?" This was a hard saying for a very loving husband. "Unless," she went on, "if one is coming, you will leave me behind.
You can come back, you know--and I shall have the child." Then that deep ancient chill of male jealousy of even his own progeny touched my heart. "I'd rather have you, Ellador, than all the children in the world.
I'd rather have you with me--on your own terms--than not to have you." This was a very stupid saying.
For if she wasn't there I should want all of her and have none of her.
But if she went along as a sort of sublimated sister--only much closer and warmer than that, really--why I should have all of her but that one thing.
We talk fine things about women, but in our hearts we know that they are very limited beings--most of them.
Oh, we value them, all right, "in their place," which place is the home, where they perform that mixture of duties so ably described by Mrs. Josephine Dodge Daskam Bacon, in which the services of "a mistress" are carefully specified.
She is a very clear writer, Mrs. J.
Bacon, and understands her subject--from her own point of view.
It gave me a queer feeling, way down deep, as of the stirring of some ancient dim prehistoric consciousness, a feeling that they were right somehow--that this was the way to feel.
It was like--coming home to mother.
I don't mean the underflannels-and-doughnuts mother, the fussy person that waits on you and spoils you and doesn't really know you.
I mean the feeling that a very little child would have, who had been lost--for ever so long.
If you won't go," I said, "I'll get Terry to the coast and come back alone.
You can let me down a rope.
And if you will go--why you blessed wonder-woman--I would rather live with you all my life--like this--than to have any other woman I ever saw, or any number of them, to do as I like with.
Will you come?" She was keen for coming.
So the plans went on.
She'd have liked to wait for that Marvel of Celis's, but Terry had no such desire.
He was crazy to be out of it all.
It made him sick, he said, _sick;_ this everlasting mother-mother-mothering.
He sounded like Sir Almwroth Wright. Well--it was hard.
He was madly in love with Alima, really; more so than he had ever been before, and their tempestuous courtship, quarrels, and reconciliations had fanned the flame.
Women have killed themselves rather than submit to outrage; they have killed the outrager; they have escaped; or they have submitted--sometimes seeming to get on very well with the victor afterward.
There was that adventure of "false Sextus," for instance, who "found Lucrese combing the fleece, under the midnight lamp.
He threatened, as I remember, that if she did not submit he would slay her, slay a slave and place him beside her and say he found him there.
A poor device, it always seemed to me.
If Mr. Lucretius had asked him how he came to be in his wife's bedroom overlooking her morals, what could he have said?
But the point is Lucrese submitted, and Alima didn't. "She kicked me," confided the embittered prisoner--he had to talk to someone.
I was doubled up with the pain, of course, and she jumped on me and yelled for this old harpy [Moadine couldn't hear him] and they had me trussed up in no time.
I believe Alima could have done it alone," he added with reluctant admiration.
She's as strong as a horse.
And of course a man's helpless when you hit him like that.
No woman with a shade of decency--" I had to grin at that, and even Terry did, sourly.
She left our end of the country entirely, went up into the fir-forest on the highest slopes, and stayed there.
Before we left he quite desperately longed to see her, but she would not come and he could not go.
We'd have gone gladly in a week's time, of course, but there was a great to-do all over the country about Ellador's leaving them.
She had interviews with some of the leading ethicists--wise women with still eyes, and with the best of the teachers.
We had called it "the family of nations," and they liked the phrase immensely. They were deeply aroused on the subject of evolution; indeed, the whole field of natural science drew them irresistibly.
That is, we men talked of that last--not with the women.
They had a definite aversion to killing things. But meanwhile there was high council being held among the wisest of them all.
Even more subtly with no show of horror or condemnation, they had gathered something--far from the truth, but something pretty clear--about poverty, vice, and crime.
They first explained the matter fully to Ellador, as she was the one who purposed visiting the Rest of the World.
To Celis they said nothing.
He thought they were quite right.
I never saw an alien become naturalized more quickly than that man in Herland. I studied it awhile, thinking of the time they'd have if some of our contagions got loose there, and concluded they were right.
So I agreed. Terry was the obstacle.
Indeed I won't!" he protested.
With which agreement we at last left Herland.
The Scarlet Letter by Nathaniel Hawthorne Contents THE CUSTOM-HOUSE THE SCARLET LETTER I.
And now-because, beyond my deserts, I was happy enough to find a listener or two on the former occasion-I again seize the public by the button, and talk of my three years' experience in a Custom-House.
The example of the famous "P.
P., Clerk of this Parish," was never more faithfully followed.
It is scarcely decorous, however, to speak all, even where we speak impersonally.
Over the entrance hovers an enormous specimen of the American eagle, with outspread wings, a shield before her breast, and, if I recollect aright, a bunch of intermingled thunderbolts and barbed arrows in each claw.
In some months of the year, however, there often chances a forenoon when affairs move onward with a livelier tread.
Here, before his own wife has greeted him, you may greet the sea-flushed ship-master, just in port, with his vessel's papers under his arm in a tarnished tin box.
Another figure in the scene is the outward-bound sailor, in quest of a protection; or the recently arrived one, pale and feeble, seeking a passport to the hospital.
A tin pipe ascends through the ceiling, and forms a medium of vocal communication with other parts of the edifice.
But now, should you go thither to seek him, you would inquire in vain for the Locofoco Surveyor.
And yet, though invariably happiest elsewhere, there is within me a feeling for Old Salem, which, in lack of a better phrase, I must be content to call affection.
The sentiment is probably assignable to the deep and aged roots which my family has stuck into the soil.
It is now nearly two centuries and a quarter since the original Briton, the earliest emigrant of my name, made his appearance in the wild and forest-bordered settlement which has since become a city.
In part, therefore, the attachment which I speak of is the mere sensuous sympathy of dust for dust.
Few of my countrymen can know what it is; nor, as frequent transplantation is perhaps better for the stock, need they consider it desirable to know. But the sentiment has likewise its moral quality.
The figure of that first ancestor, invested by family tradition with a dim and dusky grandeur, was present to my boyish imagination as far back as I can remember.
It still haunts me, and induces a sort of home-feeling with the past, which I scarcely claim in reference to the present phase of the town.
He was a soldier, legislator, judge; he was a ruler in the Church; he had all the Puritanic traits, both good and evil.
His son, too, inherited the persecuting spirit, and made himself so conspicuous in the martyrdom of the witches, that their blood may fairly be said to have left a stain upon him.
So deep a stain, indeed, that his dry old bones, in the Charter-street burial-ground, must still retain it, if they have not crumbled utterly to dust!
I know not whether these ancestors of mine bethought themselves to repent, and ask pardon of Heaven for their cruelties; or whether they are now groaning under the heavy consequences of them in another state of being.
No aim that I have ever cherished would they recognise as laudable; no success of mine-if my life, beyond its domestic scope, had ever been brightened by success-would they deem otherwise than worthless, if not positively disgraceful.
What is he?" murmurs one grey shadow of my forefathers to the other.
A writer of story books!
What kind of business in life-what mode of glorifying God, or being serviceable to mankind in his day and generation-may that be? Why, the degenerate fellow might as well have been a fiddler!
Such are the compliments bandied between my great grandsires and myself, across the gulf of time!
The boy, also in due time, passed from the forecastle to the cabin, spent a tempestuous manhood, and returned from his world-wanderings, to grow old, and die, and mingle his dust with the natal earth.
This long connexion of a family with one spot, as its place of birth and burial, creates a kindred between the human being and the locality, quite independent of any charm in the scenery or moral circumstances that surround him.
It is not love but instinct.
The spell survives, and just as powerfully as if the natal spot were an earthly paradise.
So has it been in my case.
Nevertheless, this very sentiment is an evidence that the connexion, which has become an unhealthy one, should at last be severed.
Human nature will not flourish, any more than a potato, if it be planted and re-planted, for too long a series of generations, in the same worn-out soil.
My doom was on me.
It was not the first time, nor the second, that I had gone away-as it seemed, permanently-but yet returned, like the bad halfpenny, or as if Salem were for me the inevitable centre of the universe.
The whereabouts of the Oldest Inhabitant was at once settled when I looked at them.
For upwards of twenty years before this epoch, the independent position of the Collector had kept the Salem Custom-House out of the whirlpool of political vicissitude, which makes the tenure of office generally so fragile.
Thus, on taking charge of my department, I found few but aged men.
Though by no means less liable than their fellow-men to age and infirmity, they had evidently some talisman or other that kept death at bay.
I must plead guilty to the charge of abbreviating the official breath of more than one of these venerable servants of the republic.
They were allowed, on my representation, to rest from their arduous labours, and soon afterwards-as if their sole principle of life had been zeal for their country's service-as I verily believe it was-withdrew to a better world.
It is a pious consolation to me that, through my interference, a sufficient space was allowed them for repentance of the evil and corrupt practices into which, as a matter of course, every Custom-House officer must be supposed to fall.
Neither the front nor the back entrance of the Custom-House opens on the road to Paradise. The greater part of my officers were Whigs.
It was well for their venerable brotherhood that the new Surveyor was not a politician, and though a faithful Democrat in principle, neither received nor held his office with any reference to political services.
According to the received code in such matters, it would have been nothing short of duty, in a politician, to bring every one of those white heads under the axe of the guillotine.
It was plain enough to discern that the old fellows dreaded some such discourtesy at my hands.
I knew it, too, but could never quite find in my heart to act upon the knowledge.
Much and deservedly to my own discredit, therefore, and considerably to the detriment of my official conscience, they continued, during my incumbency, to creep about the wharves, and loiter up and down the Custom-House steps.
So, with lightsome hearts and the happy consciousness of being usefully employed-in their own behalf at least, if not for our beloved country-these good old gentlemen went through the various formalities of office.
Sagaciously under their spectacles, did they peep into the holds of vessels.
Mighty was their fuss about little matters, and marvellous, sometimes, the obtuseness that allowed greater ones to slip between their fingers!
The better part of my companion's character, if it have a better part, is that which usually comes uppermost in my regard, and forms the type whereby I recognise the man.
As most of these old Custom-House officers had good traits, and as my position in reference to them, being paternal and protective, was favourable to the growth of friendly sentiments, I soon grew to like them all.
In one case, however, it is real sunshine; in the other, it more resembles the phosphorescent glow of decaying wood. It would be sad injustice, the reader must understand, to represent all my excellent old friends as in their dotage.
Then, moreover, the white locks of age were sometimes found to be the thatch of an intellectual tenement in good repair.
But, as respects the majority of my corps of veterans, there will be no wrong done if I characterize them generally as a set of wearisome old souls, who had gathered nothing worth preservation from their varied experience of life.
They seemed to have flung away all the golden grain of practical wisdom, which they had enjoyed so many opportunities of harvesting, and most carefully to have stored their memory with the husks.
This Inspector, when I first knew him, was a man of fourscore years, or thereabouts, and certainly one of the most wonderful specimens of winter-green that you would be likely to discover in a lifetime's search.
He had been the husband of three wives, all long since dead; the father of twenty children, most of whom, at every age of childhood or maturity, had likewise returned to dust.
Here, one would suppose, might have been sorrow enough to imbue the sunniest disposition through and through with a sable tinge.
Not so with our old Inspector.
He was, in truth, a rare phenomenon; so perfect, in one point of view; so shallow, so delusive, so impalpable such an absolute nonentity, in every other.
His gourmandism was a highly agreeable trait; and to hear him talk of roast meat was as appetizing as a pickle or an oyster.
His reminiscences of good cheer, however ancient the date of the actual banquet, seemed to bring the savour of pig or turkey under one's very nostrils.
There were flavours on his palate that had lingered there not less than sixty or seventy years, and were still apparently as fresh as that of the mutton chop which he had just devoured for his breakfast.
I have heard him smack his lips over dinners, every guest at which, except himself, had long been food for worms.
The step was palsied now, that had been foremost in the charge.
His countenance, in this repose, was mild and kindly.
It was marked with the noble and heroic qualities which showed it to be not a mere accident, but of good right, that he had won a distinguished name.
The heat that had formerly pervaded his nature, and which was not yet extinct, was never of the kind that flashes and flickers in a blaze; but rather a deep red glow, as of iron in a furnace.
And, in so intense a moment his demeanour would have still been calm.
Such an exhibition, however, was but to be pictured in fancy; not to be anticipated, nor desired.
Still, even in respect of grace and beauty, there were points well worth noting.
A ray of humour, now and then, would make its way through the veil of dim obstruction, and glimmer pleasantly upon our faces.
He seemed away from us, although we saw him but a few yards off; remote, though we passed close beside his chair; unattainable, though we might have stretched forth our hands and touched his own.
It might be that he lived a more real life within his thoughts than amid the unappropriate environment of the Collector's office.
It was the recollection of those memorable words of his-"I'll try, Sir"-spoken on the very verge of a desperate and heroic enterprise, and breathing the soul and spirit of New England hardihood, comprehending all perils, and encountering all.
The accidents of my life have often afforded me this advantage, but never with more fulness and variety than during my continuance in office.
There was one man, especially, the observation of whose character gave me a new idea of talent.
His gifts were emphatically those of a man of business; prompt, acute, clear-minded; with an eye that saw through all perplexities, and a faculty of arrangement that made them vanish as by the waving of an enchanter's wand.
Bred up from boyhood in the Custom-House, it was his proper field of activity; and the many intricacies of business, so harassing to the interloper, presented themselves before him with the regularity of a perfectly comprehended system.
In my contemplation, he stood as the ideal of his class.
Thus, by an inevitable necessity, as a magnet attracts steel-filings, so did our man of business draw to himself the difficulties which everybody met with.
With an easy condescension, and kind forbearance towards our stupidity-which, to his order of mind, must have seemed little short of crime-would he forth-with, by the merest touch of his finger, make the incomprehensible as clear as daylight.
The merchants valued him not less than we, his esoteric friends.
Here, in a word-and it is a rare instance in my life-I had met with a person thoroughly adapted to the situation which he held. Such were some of the people with whom I now found myself connected.
I took it in good part, at the hands of Providence, that I was thrown into a position so little akin to my past habits; and set myself seriously to gather from it whatever profit was to be had.
Even the old Inspector was desirable, as a change of diet, to a man who had known Alcott.
A gift, a faculty, if it had not been departed, was suspended and inanimate within me.
There would have been something sad, unutterably dreary, in all this, had I not been conscious that it lay at my own option to recall whatever was valuable in the past.
But I never considered it as other than a transitory life.
A man of thought, fancy, and sensibility (had he ten times the Surveyor's proportion of those qualities), may, at any time, be a man of affairs, if he will only choose to give himself the trouble.
My fellow-officers, and the merchants and sea-captains with whom my official duties brought me into any manner of connection, viewed me in no other light, and probably knew me in no other character.
Borne on such queer vehicle of fame, a knowledge of my existence, so far as a name conveys it, was carried where it had never been before, and, I hope, will never go again. But the past was not dead.
Once in a great while, the thoughts that had seemed so vital and so active, yet had been put to rest so quietly, revived again.
The edifice-originally projected on a scale adapted to the old commercial enterprise of the port, and with an idea of subsequent prosperity destined never to be realized-contains far more space than its occupants know what to do with.
This airy hall, therefore, over the Collector's apartments, remains unfinished to this day, and, in spite of the aged cobwebs that festoon its dusky beams, appears still to await the labour of the carpenter and mason.
At one end of the room, in a recess, were a number of barrels piled one upon another, containing bundles of official documents.
Large quantities of similar rubbish lay lumbering the floor.
Yet not altogether worthless, perhaps, as materials of local history.
This envelope had the air of an official record of some period long past, when clerks engrossed their stiff and formal chirography on more substantial materials than at present.
There was something about it that quickened an instinctive curiosity, and made me undo the faded red tape that tied up the package, with the sense that a treasure would here be brought to light.
These supplied material for petty activity to a mind that would otherwise have been eaten up with rust.
A portion of his facts, by the by, did me good service in the preparation of the article entitled "MAIN STREET," included in the present volume.
Meanwhile, they shall be at the command of any gentleman, inclined and competent, to take the unprofitable labour off my hands.
As a final disposition I contemplate depositing them with the Essex Historical Society.
This rag of scarlet cloth-for time, and wear, and a sacrilegious moth had reduced it to little other than a rag-on careful examination, assumed the shape of a letter. It was the capital letter A.
By an accurate measurement, each limb proved to be precisely three inches and a quarter in length.
And yet it strangely interested me.
I shuddered, and involuntarily let it fall upon the floor. In the absorbing contemplation of the scarlet letter, I had hitherto neglected to examine a small roll of dingy paper, around which it had been twisted.
This I now opened, and had the satisfaction to find recorded by the old Surveyor's pen, a reasonably complete explanation of the whole affair.
There were several foolscap sheets, containing many particulars respecting the life and conversation of one Hester Prynne, who appeared to have been rather a noteworthy personage in the view of our ancestors.
The original papers, together with the scarlet letter itself-a most curious relic-are still in my possession, and shall be freely exhibited to whomsoever, induced by the great interest of the narrative, may desire a sight of them.
On the contrary, I have allowed myself, as to such points, nearly, or altogether, as much license as if the facts had been entirely of my own invention.
What I contend for is the authenticity of the outline. This incident recalled my mind, in some degree, to its old track.
There seemed to be here the groundwork of a tale.
In his port was the dignity of one who had borne His Majesty's commission, and who was therefore illuminated by a ray of the splendour that shone so dazzlingly about the throne.
How unlike alas the hangdog look of a republican official, who, as the servant of the people, feels himself less than the least, and below the lowest of his masters.
Do this," said the ghost of Mr. Surveyor Pue, emphatically nodding the head that looked so imposing within its memorable wig; "do this, and the profit shall be all your own.
You will shortly need it; for it is not in your days as it was in mine, when a man's office was a life-lease, and oftentimes an heirloom.
Great were the weariness and annoyance of the old Inspector and the Weighers and Gaugers, whose slumbers were disturbed by the unmercifully lengthened tramp of my passing and returning footsteps.
Remembering their own former habits, they used to say that the Surveyor was walking the quarter-deck.
They probably fancied that my sole object-and, indeed, the sole object for which a sane man could ever put himself into voluntary motion-was to get an appetite for dinner.
And, to say the truth, an appetite, sharpened by the east wind that generally blew along the passage, was the only valuable result of so much indefatigable exercise.
My imagination was a tarnished mirror.
It would not reflect, or only with miserable dimness, the figures with which I did my best to people it.
The characters of the narrative would not be warmed and rendered malleable by any heat that I could kindle at my intellectual forge.
They would take neither the glow of passion nor the tenderness of sentiment, but retained all the rigidity of dead corpses, and stared me in the face with a fixed and ghastly grin of contemptuous defiance.
What have you to do with us?" that expression seemed to say. "The little power you might have once possessed over the tribe of unrealities is gone!
You have bartered it for a pittance of the public gold.
Go then, and earn your wages!
The same torpor, as regarded the capacity for intellectual effort, accompanied me home, and weighed upon me in the chamber which I most absurdly termed my study.
Nothing is too small or too trifling to undergo this change, and acquire dignity thereby.
Ghosts might enter here without affrighting us.
It throws its unobtrusive tinge throughout the room, with a faint ruddiness upon the walls and ceiling, and a reflected gleam upon the polish of the furniture.
This warmer light mingles itself with the cold spirituality of the moon-beams, and communicates, as it were, a heart and sensibilities of human tenderness to the forms which fancy summons up.
It converts them from snow-images into men and women.
Could I have preserved the picturesque force of his style, and the humourous colouring which nature taught him how to throw over his descriptions, the result, I honestly believe, would have been something new in literature.
Or I might readily have found a more serious task.
At some future day, it may be, I shall remember a few scattered fragments and broken paragraphs, and write them down, and find the letters turn to gold upon the page. These perceptions had come too late.
At the Instant, I was only conscious that what would have been a pleasure once was now a hopeless toil.
There was no occasion to make much moan about this state of affairs.
I had ceased to be a writer of tolerably poor tales and essays, and had become a tolerably good Surveyor of the Customs.
Of the fact there could be no doubt and, examining myself and others, I was led to conclusions, in reference to the effect of public office on the character, not very favourable to the mode of life in question.
In some other form, perhaps, I may hereafter develop these effects.
If he possesses an unusual share of native energy, or the enervating magic of place do not operate too long upon him, his forfeited powers may be redeemable.
The ejected officer-fortunate in the unkindly shove that sends him forth betimes, to struggle amid a struggling world-may return to himself, and become all that he has ever been.
He usually keeps his ground just long enough for his own ruin, and is then thrust out, with sinews all unstrung, to totter along the difficult footpath of life as he best may.
Conscious of his own infirmity-that his tempered steel and elasticity are lost-he for ever afterwards looks wistfully about him in quest of support external to himself.
This faith, more than anything else, steals the pith and availability out of whatever enterprise he may dream of undertaking.
Why should he toil and moil, and be at so much trouble to pick himself up out of the mud, when, in a little while hence, the strong arm of his Uncle will raise and support him?
Why should he work for his living here, or go to dig gold in California, when he is so soon to be made happy, at monthly intervals, with a little pile of glittering coin out of his Uncle's pocket?
It is sadly curious to observe how slight a taste of office suffices to infect a poor fellow with this singular disease.
Uncle Sam's gold-meaning no disrespect to the worthy old gentleman-has, in this respect, a quality of enchantment like that of the devil's wages.
Not that the Surveyor brought the lesson home to himself, or admitted that he could be so utterly undone, either by continuance in office or ejectment.
Yet my reflections were not the most comfortable.
I began to grow melancholy and restless; continually prying into my mind, to discover which of its poor properties were gone, and what degree of detriment had already accrued to the remainder.
I endeavoured to calculate how much longer I could stay in the Custom-House, and yet go forth a man.
A dreary look-forward, this, for a man who felt it to be the best definition of happiness to live throughout the whole range of his faculties and sensibilities.
But, all this while, I was giving myself very unnecessary alarm.
Providence had meditated better things for me than I could possibly imagine for myself. A remarkable event of the third year of my Surveyorship-to adopt the tone of "P.
P."-was the election of General Taylor to the Presidency. It is essential, in order to form a complete estimate of the advantages of official life, to view the incumbent at the incoming of a hostile administration.
Strange, too, for one who has kept his calmness throughout the contest, to observe the bloodthirstiness that is developed in the hour of triumph, and to be conscious that he is himself among its objects!
There are few uglier traits of human nature than this tendency-which I now witnessed in men no worse than their neighbours-to grow cruel, merely because they possessed the power of inflicting harm.
But the long habit of victory has made them generous.
But who can see an inch into futurity beyond his nose?
In my particular case the consolatory topics were close at hand, and, indeed, had suggested themselves to my meditations a considerable time before it was requisite to use them.
Now, after he had won the crown of martyrdom (though with no longer a head to wear it on), the point might be looked upon as settled.
So much for my figurative self.
Rusty through long idleness, some little space was requisite before my intellectual machinery could be brought to work upon the tale with an effect in any degree satisfactory.
This uncaptivating effect is perhaps due to the period of hardly accomplished revolution, and still seething turmoil, in which the story shaped itself.
It is no indication, however, of a lack of cheerfulness in the writer's mind: for he was happier while straying through the gloom of these sunless fantasies than at any time since he had quitted the Old Manse.
Peace be with all the world!
My blessing on my friends!
My forgiveness to my enemies!
For I am in the realm of quiet! The life of the Custom-House lies like a dream behind me.
It is with an effort that I recall the figures and appellations of these few.
Henceforth it ceases to be a reality of my life; I am a citizen of somewhere else.
Certain it is that, some fifteen or twenty years after the settlement of the town, the wooden jail was already marked with weather-stains and other indications of age, which gave a yet darker aspect to its beetle-browed and gloomy front.
The rust on the ponderous iron-work of its oaken door looked more antique than anything else in the New World.
Like all that pertains to crime, it seemed never to have known a youthful era.
Amongst any other population, or at a later period in the history of New England, the grim rigidity that petrified the bearded physiognomies of these good people would have augured some awful business in hand.
It could have betokened nothing short of the anticipated execution of some noted culprit, on whom the sentence of a legal tribunal had but confirmed the verdict of public sentiment.
But, in that early severity of the Puritan character, an inference of this kind could not so indubitably be drawn.
It might be that a sluggish bond-servant, or an undutiful child, whom his parents had given over to the civil authority, was to be corrected at the whipping-post.
Meagre, indeed, and cold, was the sympathy that a transgressor might look for, from such bystanders, at the scaffold.
The women who were now standing about the prison-door stood within less than half a century of the period when the man-like Elizabeth had been the not altogether unsuitable representative of the sex.
They were her countrywomen: and the beef and ale of their native land, with a moral diet not a whit more refined, entered largely into their composition.
The bright morning sun, therefore, shone on broad shoulders and well-developed busts, and on round and ruddy cheeks, that had ripened in the far-off island, and had hardly yet grown paler or thinner in the atmosphere of New England.
It would be greatly for the public behoof if we women, being of mature age and church-members in good repute, should have the handling of such malefactresses as this Hester Prynne.
If the hussy stood up for judgment before us five, that are now here in a knot together, would she come off with such a sentence as the worshipful magistrates have awarded?
At the very least, they should have put the brand of a hot iron on Hester Prynne's forehead. Madame Hester would have winced at that, I warrant me.
But she-the naughty baggage-little will she care what they put upon the bodice of her gown!
This woman has brought shame upon us all, and ought to die; is there not law for it?
Truly there is, both in the Scripture and the statute-book.
That is the hardest word yet!
This personage prefigured and represented in his aspect the whole dismal severity of the Puritanic code of law, which it was his business to administer in its final and closest application to the offender.
On the breast of her gown, in fine red cloth, surrounded with an elaborate embroidery and fantastic flourishes of gold thread, appeared the letter A.
She was ladylike, too, after the manner of the feminine gentility of those days; characterised by a certain state and dignity, rather than by the delicate, evanescent, and indescribable grace which is now recognised as its indication.
And never had Hester Prynne appeared more ladylike, in the antique interpretation of the term, than as she issued from the prison.
It may be true that, to a sensitive observer, there was some thing exquisitely painful in it.
Her attire, which indeed, she had wrought for the occasion in prison, and had modelled much after her own fancy, seemed to express the attitude of her spirit, the desperate recklessness of her mood, by its wild and picturesque peculiarity.
Not a stitch in that embroidered letter but she has felt it in her heart." The grim beadle now made a gesture with his staff.
Make way, good people-make way, in the King's name!" cried he.
Open a passage; and I promise ye, Mistress Prynne shall be set where man, woman, and child may have a fair sight of her brave apparel from this time till an hour past meridian.
A blessing on the righteous colony of the Massachusetts, where iniquity is dragged out into the sunshine!
Come along, Madame Hester, and show your scarlet letter in the market-place!" A lane was forthwith opened through the crowd of spectators.
Preceded by the beadle, and attended by an irregular procession of stern-browed men and unkindly visaged women, Hester Prynne set forth towards the place appointed for her punishment.
It was no great distance, in those days, from the prison door to the market-place.
In our nature, however, there is a provision, alike marvellous and merciful, that the sufferer should never know the intensity of what he endures by its present torture, but chiefly by the pang that rankles after it.
With almost a serene deportment, therefore, Hester Prynne passed through this portion of her ordeal, and came to a sort of scaffold, at the western extremity of the market-place.
The very ideal of ignominy was embodied and made manifest in this contrivance of wood and iron.
There can be no outrage, methinks, against our common nature-whatever be the delinquencies of the individual-no outrage more flagrant than to forbid the culprit to hide his face for shame; as it was the essence of this punishment to do.
When such personages could constitute a part of the spectacle, without risking the majesty, or reverence of rank and office, it was safely to be inferred that the infliction of a legal sentence would have an earnest and effectual meaning.
Accordingly, the crowd was sombre and grave.
The unhappy culprit sustained herself as best a woman might, under the heavy weight of a thousand unrelenting eyes, all fastened upon her, and concentrated at her bosom.
It was almost intolerable to be borne.
Had a roar of laughter burst from the multitude-each man, each woman, each little shrill-voiced child, contributing their individual parts-Hester Prynne might have repaid them all with a bitter and disdainful smile.
She saw her own face, glowing with girlish beauty, and illuminating all the interior of the dusky mirror in which she had been wont to gaze at it.
There she beheld another countenance, of a man well stricken in years, a pale, thin, scholar-like visage, with eyes dim and bleared by the lamp-light that had served them to pore over many ponderous books.
Yet those same bleared optics had a strange, penetrating power, when it was their owner's purpose to read the human soul.
This figure of the study and the cloister, as Hester Prynne's womanly fancy failed not to recall, was slightly deformed, with the left shoulder a trifle higher than the right.
There was a remarkable intelligence in his features, as of a person who had so cultivated his mental part that it could not fail to mould the physical to itself and become manifest by unmistakable tokens.
Although, by a seemingly careless arrangement of his heterogeneous garb, he had endeavoured to conceal or abate the peculiarity, it was sufficiently evident to Hester Prynne that one of this man's shoulders rose higher than the other.
Again, at the first instant of perceiving that thin visage, and the slight deformity of the figure, she pressed her infant to her bosom with so convulsive a force that the poor babe uttered another cry of pain.
But the mother did not seem to hear it. At his arrival in the market-place, and some time before she saw him, the stranger had bent his eyes on Hester Prynne.
It was carelessly at first, like a man chiefly accustomed to look inward, and to whom external matters are of little value and import, unless they bear relation to something within his mind.
Very soon, however, his look became keen and penetrative.
A writhing horror twisted itself across his features, like a snake gliding swiftly over them, and making one little pause, with all its wreathed intervolutions in open sight.
His face darkened with some powerful emotion, which, nevertheless, he so instantaneously controlled by an effort of his will, that, save at a single moment, its expression might have passed for calmness.
After a brief space, the convulsion grew almost imperceptible, and finally subsided into the depths of his nature.
She hath raised a great scandal, I promise you, in godly Master Dimmesdale's church." "You say truly," replied the other; "I am a stranger, and have been a wanderer, sorely against my will.
I have met with grievous mishaps by sea and land, and have been long held in bonds among the heathen-folk to the southward; and am now brought hither by this Indian to be redeemed out of my captivity.
So learned a man as you speak of should have learned this too in his books.
Madame Hester absolutely refuseth to speak, and the magistrates have laid their heads together in vain.
The penalty thereof is death.
It irks me, nevertheless, that the partner of her iniquity should not at least, stand on the scaffold by her side.
Dreadful as it was, she was conscious of a shelter in the presence of these thousand witnesses.
It was better to stand thus, with so many betwixt him and her, than to greet him face to face-they two alone.
She fled for refuge, as it were, to the public exposure, and dreaded the moment when its protection should be withdrawn from her.
It was the place whence proclamations were wont to be made, amidst an assemblage of the magistracy, with all the ceremonial that attended such public observances in those days.
Here, to witness the scene which we are describing, sat Governor Bellingham himself with four sergeants about his chair, bearing halberds, as a guard of honour.
He wore a dark feather in his hat, a border of embroidery on his cloak, and a black velvet tunic beneath-a gentleman advanced in years, with a hard experience written in his wrinkles.
The other eminent characters by whom the chief ruler was surrounded were distinguished by a dignity of mien, belonging to a period when the forms of authority were felt to possess the sacredness of Divine institutions.
This last attribute, however, had been less carefully developed than his intellectual gifts, and was, in truth, rather a matter of shame than self-congratulation with him.
There he stood, with a border of grizzled locks beneath his skull-cap, while his grey eyes, accustomed to the shaded light of his study, were winking, like those of Hester's infant, in the unadulterated sunshine.
Truly, as I sought to convince him, the shame lay in the commission of the sin, and not in the showing of it forth.
What say you to it, once again, brother Dimmesdale?
His eloquence and religious fervour had already given the earnest of high eminence in his profession.
The trying nature of his position drove the blood from his cheek, and made his lips tremulous. "Speak to the woman, my brother," said Mr. Wilson.
It is of moment to her soul, and, therefore, as the worshipful Governor says, momentous to thine own, in whose charge hers is.
If thou feelest it to be for thy soul's peace, and that thy earthly punishment will thereby be made more effectual to salvation, I charge thee to speak out the name of thy fellow-sinner and fellow-sufferer!
What can thy silence do for him, except it tempt him-yea, compel him, as it were-to add hypocrisy to sin?
Heaven hath granted thee an open ignominy, that thereby thou mayest work out an open triumph over the evil within thee and the sorrow without.
Even the poor baby at Hester's bosom was affected by the same influence, for it directed its hitherto vacant gaze towards Mr. Dimmesdale, and held up its little arms with a half-pleased, half-plaintive murmur.
That little babe hath been gifted with a voice, to second and confirm the counsel which thou hast heard.
That, and thy repentance, may avail to take the scarlet letter off thy breast." "Never," replied Hester Prynne, looking, not at Mr. Wilson, but into the deep and troubled eyes of the younger clergyman.
It is too deeply branded.
Ye cannot take it off.
And my child must seek a heavenly father; she shall never know an earthly one!" "She will not speak!" murmured Mr. Dimmesdale, who, leaning over the balcony, with his hand upon his heart, had awaited the result of his appeal.
He now drew back with a long respiration.
Wondrous strength and generosity of a woman's heart!
In this state, the voice of the preacher thundered remorselessly, but unavailingly, upon her ears.
The infant, during the latter portion of her ordeal, pierced the air with its wailings and screams; she strove to hush it mechanically, but seemed scarcely to sympathise with its trouble.
With the same hard demeanour, she was led back to prison, and vanished from the public gaze within its iron-clamped portal.
As night approached, it proving impossible to quell her insubordination by rebuke or threats of punishment, Master Brackett, the jailer, thought fit to introduce a physician.
Nor did his demeanour change when the withdrawal of the prison keeper left him face to face with the woman, whose absorbed notice of him, in the crowd, had intimated so close a relation between himself and her.
His first care was given to the child, whose cries, indeed, as she lay writhing on the trundle-bed, made it of peremptory necessity to postpone all other business to the task of soothing her.
He examined the infant carefully, and then proceeded to unclasp a leathern case, which he took from beneath his dress.
Wouldst thou avenge thyself on the innocent babe?" whispered she. "Foolish woman!" responded the physician, half coldly, half soothingly. "What should ail me to harm this misbegotten and miserable babe?
The medicine is potent for good, and were it my child-yea, mine own, as well as thine!
The moans of the little patient subsided; its convulsive tossings gradually ceased; and in a few moments, as is the custom of young children after relief from pain, it sank into a profound and dewy slumber.
The physician, as he had a fair right to be termed, next bestowed his attention on the mother.
It may be less soothing than a sinless conscience.
That I cannot give thee.
See! it is even now at my lips." "Drink, then," replied he, still with the same cold composure.
Dost thou know me so little, Hester Prynne?
Are my purposes wont to be so shallow?
As he spoke, he laid his long forefinger on the scarlet letter, which forthwith seemed to scorch into Hester's breast, as if it had been red hot.
He noticed her involuntary gesture, and smiled.
Live, therefore, and bear about thy doom with thee, in the eyes of men and women-in the eyes of him whom thou didst call thy husband-in the eyes of yonder child!
The reason is not far to seek.
It was my folly, and thy weakness.
I-a man of thought-the book-worm of great libraries-a man already in decay, having given my best years to feed the hungry dream of knowledge-what had I to do with youth and beauty like thine own?
Misshapen from my birth-hour, how could I delude myself with the idea that intellectual gifts might veil physical deformity in a young girl's fantasy?
If sages were ever wise in their own behoof, I might have foreseen all this.
I felt no love, nor feigned any." "True," replied he.
But, up to that epoch of my life, I had lived in vain.
The world had been so cheerless! My heart was a habitation large enough for many guests, but lonely and chill, and without a household fire.
I longed to kindle one!
It seemed not so wild a dream-old as I was, and sombre as I was, and misshapen as I was-that the simple bliss, which is scattered far and wide, for all mankind to gather up, might yet be mine.
And so, Hester, I drew thee into my heart, into its innermost chamber, and sought to warm thee by the warmth which thy presence made there!" "I have greatly wronged thee," murmured Hester. "We have wronged each other," answered he.
Mine was the first wrong, when I betrayed thy budding youth into a false and unnatural relation with my decay.
Therefore, as a man who has not thought and philosophised in vain, I seek no vengeance, plot no evil against thee. Between thee and me, the scale hangs fairly balanced.
But, Hester, the man lives who has wronged us both!
Who is he?" "Ask me not!" replied Hester Prynne, looking firmly into his face. "That thou shalt never know!" "Never, sayest thou?" rejoined he, with a smile of dark and self-relying intelligence.
Believe me, Hester, there are few things whether in the outward world, or, to a certain depth, in the invisible sphere of thought-few things hidden from the man who devotes himself earnestly and unreservedly to the solution of a mystery.
But, as for me, I come to the inquest with other senses than they possess.
I shall seek this man, as I have sought truth in books: as I have sought gold in alchemy. There is a sympathy that will make me conscious of him.
I shall see him tremble.
I shall feel myself shudder, suddenly and unawares.
Not the less he is mine," resumed he, with a look of confidence, as if destiny were at one with him.
He bears no letter of infamy wrought into his garment, as thou dost, but I shall read it on his heart.
Yet fear not for him!
Think not that I shall interfere with Heaven's own method of retribution, or, to my own loss, betray him to the gripe of human law.
Neither do thou imagine that I shall contrive aught against his life; no, nor against his fame, if as I judge, he be a man of fair repute.
Let him hide himself in outward honour, if he may!
Not the less he shall be mine!" "Thy acts are like mercy," said Hester, bewildered and appalled; "but thy words interpret thee as a terror!" "One thing, thou that wast my wife, I would enjoin upon thee," continued the scholar.
Thou hast kept the secret of thy paramour. Keep, likewise, mine!
There are none in this land that know me.
Breathe not to any human soul that thou didst ever call me husband!
Here, on this wild outskirt of the earth, I shall pitch my tent; for, elsewhere a wanderer, and isolated from human interests, I find here a woman, a man, a child, amongst whom and myself there exist the closest ligaments.
No matter whether of love or hate: no matter whether of right or wrong!
Thou and thine, Hester Prynne, belong to me.
My home is where thou art and where he is.
But betray me not!" "Wherefore dost thou desire it?" inquired Hester, shrinking, she hardly knew why, from this secret bond.
Why not announce thyself openly, and cast me off at once?" "It may be," he replied, "because I will not encounter the dishonour that besmirches the husband of a faithless woman.
It may be for other reasons.
Enough, it is my purpose to live and die unknown.
Let, therefore, thy husband be to the world as one already dead, and of whom no tidings shall ever come.
Recognise me not, by word, by sign, by look!
Breathe not the secret, above all, to the man thou wottest of. Shouldst thou fail me in this, beware!
His fame, his position, his life will be in my hands.
Doth thy sentence bind thee to wear the token in thy sleep?
Art thou not afraid of nightmares and hideous dreams?" "Why dost thou smile so at me?" inquired Hester, troubled at the expression of his eyes.
Art thou like the Black Man that haunts the forest round about us?
Hast thou enticed me into a bond that will prove the ruin of my soul?" "Not thy soul," he answered, with another smile.
No, not thine!" V. HESTER AT HER NEEDLE Hester Prynne's term of confinement was now at an end.
Her prison-door was thrown open, and she came forth into the sunshine, which, falling on all alike, seemed, to her sick and morbid heart, as if meant for no other purpose than to reveal the scarlet letter on her breast.
Then, she was supported by an unnatural tension of the nerves, and by all the combative energy of her character, which enabled her to convert the scene into a kind of lurid triumph.
It was, moreover, a separate and insulated event, to occur but once in her lifetime, and to meet which, therefore, reckless of economy, she might call up the vital strength that would have sufficed for many quiet years.
The very law that condemned her-a giant of stern features but with vigour to support, as well as to annihilate, in his iron arm-had held her up through the terrible ordeal of her ignominy.
But now, with this unattended walk from her prison door, began the daily custom; and she must either sustain and carry it forward by the ordinary resources of her nature, or sink beneath it.
She could no longer borrow from the future to help her through the present grief.
Throughout them all, giving up her individuality, she would become the general symbol at which the preacher and moralist might point, and in which they might vivify and embody their images of woman's frailty and sinful passion.
Her sin, her ignominy, were the roots which she had struck into the soil.
It was as if a new birth, with stronger assimilations than the first, had converted the forest-land, still so uncongenial to every other pilgrim and wanderer, into Hester Prynne's wild and dreary, but life-long home.
All other scenes of earth-even that village of rural England, where happy infancy and stainless maidenhood seemed yet to be in her mother's keeping, like garments put off long ago-were foreign to her, in comparison.
Over and over again, the tempter of souls had thrust this idea upon Hester's contemplation, and laughed at the passionate and desperate joy with which she seized, and then strove to cast it from her.
She barely looked the idea in the face, and hastened to bar it in its dungeon.
On the outskirts of the town, within the verge of the peninsula, but not in close vicinity to any other habitation, there was a small thatched cottage.
It stood on the shore, looking across a basin of the sea at the forest-covered hills, towards the west.
In this little lonesome dwelling, with some slender means that she possessed, and by the licence of the magistrates, who still kept an inquisitorial watch over her, Hester established herself, with her infant child.
She possessed an art that sufficed, even in a land that afforded comparatively little scope for its exercise, to supply food for her thriving infant and herself.
It was the art, then, as now, almost the only one within a woman's grasp-of needle-work.
Here, indeed, in the sable simplicity that generally characterised the Puritanic modes of dress, there might be an infrequent call for the finer productions of her handiwork.
Vanity, it may be, chose to mortify itself, by putting on, for ceremonials of pomp and state, the garments that had been wrought by her sinful hands.
But it is not recorded that, in a single instance, her skill was called in to embroider the white veil which was to cover the pure blushes of a bride.
The exception indicated the ever relentless vigour with which society frowned upon her sin. Hester sought not to acquire anything beyond a subsistence, of the plainest and most ascetic description, for herself, and a simple abundance for her child.
Her own dress was of the coarsest materials and the most sombre hue, with only that one ornament-the scarlet letter-which it was her doom to wear.
We may speak further of it hereafter.
Except for that small expenditure in the decoration of her infant, Hester bestowed all her superfluous means in charity, on wretches less miserable than herself, and who not unfrequently insulted the hand that fed them.
Much of the time, which she might readily have applied to the better efforts of her art, she employed in making coarse garments for the poor.
It is probable that there was an idea of penance in this mode of occupation, and that she offered up a real sacrifice of enjoyment in devoting so many hours to such rude handiwork.
She had in her nature a rich, voluptuous, Oriental characteristic-a taste for the gorgeously beautiful, which, save in the exquisite productions of her needle, found nothing else, in all the possibilities of her life, to exercise itself upon.
Women derive a pleasure, incomprehensible to the other sex, from the delicate toil of the needle.
To Hester Prynne it might have been a mode of expressing, and therefore soothing, the passion of her life.
Like all other joys, she rejected it as sin.
With her native energy of character and rare capacity, it could not entirely cast her off, although it had set a mark upon her, more intolerable to a woman's heart than that which branded the brow of Cain.
In all her intercourse with society, however, there was nothing that made her feel as if she belonged to it.
These emotions, in fact, and its bitterest scorn besides, seemed to be the sole portion that she retained in the universal heart.
The poor, as we have already said, whom she sought out to be the objects of her bounty, often reviled the hand that was stretched forth to succour them.
Hester had schooled herself long and well; and she never responded to these attacks, save by a flush of crimson that rose irrepressibly over her pale cheek, and again subsided into the depths of her bosom.
She grew to have a dread of children; for they had imbibed from their parents a vague idea of something horrible in this dreary woman gliding silently through the town, with never any companion but one only child.
Another peculiar torture was felt in the gaze of a new eye.
When strangers looked curiously at the scarlet letter-and none ever failed to do so-they branded it afresh in Hester's soul; so that, oftentimes, she could scarcely refrain, yet always did refrain, from covering the symbol with her hand.
But then, again, an accustomed eye had likewise its own anguish to inflict.
Its cool stare of familiarity was intolerable.
She shuddered to believe, yet could not help believing, that it gave her a sympathetic knowledge of the hidden sin in other hearts.
She was terror-stricken by the revelations that were thus made.
Or, must she receive those intimations-so obscure, yet so distinct-as truth?
In all her miserable experience, there was nothing else so awful and so loathsome as this sense.
What evil thing is at hand?" would Hester say to herself.
Lifting her reluctant eyes, there would be nothing human within the scope of view, save the form of this earthly saint!
Again a mystic sisterhood would contumaciously assert itself, as she met the sanctified frown of some matron, who, according to the rumour of all tongues, had kept cold snow within her bosom throughout life.
That unsunned snow in the matron's bosom, and the burning shame on Hester Prynne's-what had the two in common?
O Fiend, whose talisman was that fatal symbol, wouldst thou leave nothing, whether in youth or age, for this poor sinner to revere?-such loss of faith is ever one of the saddest results of sin.
They averred that the symbol was not mere scarlet cloth, tinged in an earthly dye-pot, but was red-hot with infernal fire, and could be seen glowing all alight whenever Hester Prynne walked abroad in the night-time.
How strange it seemed to the sad woman, as she watched the growth, and the beauty that became every day more brilliant, and the intelligence that threw its quivering sunshine over the tiny features of this child!
Her Pearl-for so had Hester called her; not as a name expressive of her aspect, which had nothing of the calm, white, unimpassioned lustre that would be indicated by the comparison.
But she named the infant "Pearl," as being of great price-purchased with all she had-her mother's only treasure!
Man had marked this woman's sin by a scarlet letter, which had such potent and disastrous efficacy that no human sympathy could reach her, save it were sinful like herself.
Yet these thoughts affected Hester Prynne less with hope than apprehension.
She knew that her deed had been evil; she could have no faith, therefore, that its result would be good.
Day after day she looked fearfully into the child's expanding nature, ever dreading to detect some dark and wild peculiarity that should correspond with the guiltiness to which she owed her being. Certainly there was no physical defect.
The child had a native grace which does not invariably co-exist with faultless beauty; its attire, however simple, always impressed the beholder as if it were the very garb that precisely became it best.
But little Pearl was not clad in rustic weeds.
And yet a russet gown, torn and soiled with the child's rude play, made a picture of her just as perfect.
Pearl's aspect was imbued with a spell of infinite variety; in this one child there were many children, comprehending the full scope between the wild-flower prettiness of a peasant-baby, and the pomp, in little, of an infant princess.
Her nature appeared to possess depth, too, as well as variety; but-or else Hester's fears deceived her-it lacked reference and adaptation to the world into which she was born.
The child could not be made amenable to rules.
Above all, the warfare of Hester's spirit at that epoch was perpetuated in Pearl.
She could recognize her wild, desperate, defiant mood, the flightiness of her temper, and even some of the very cloud-shapes of gloom and despondency that had brooded in her heart.
Hester Prynne, nevertheless, the loving mother of this one child, ran little risk of erring on the side of undue severity.
Mindful, however, of her own errors and misfortunes, she early sought to impose a tender but strict control over the infant immortality that was committed to her charge. But the task was beyond her skill.
After testing both smiles and frowns, and proving that neither mode of treatment possessed any calculable influence, Hester was ultimately compelled to stand aside and permit the child to be swayed by her own impulses.
Physical compulsion or restraint was effectual, of course, while it lasted.
As to any other kind of discipline, whether addressed to her mind or heart, little Pearl might or might not be within its reach, in accordance with the caprice that ruled the moment.
She seemed rather an airy sprite, which, after playing its fantastic sports for a little while upon the cottage floor, would flit away with a mocking smile.
Then, perhaps-for there was no foreseeing how it might affect her-Pearl would frown, and clench her little fist, and harden her small features into a stern, unsympathising look of discontent.
Not seldom she would laugh anew, and louder than before, like a thing incapable and unintelligent of human sorrow.
Or-but this more rarely happened-she would be convulsed with rage of grief and sob out her love for her mother in broken words, and seem intent on proving that she had a heart by breaking it.
Yet Hester was hardly safe in confiding herself to that gusty tenderness: it passed as suddenly as it came.
Brooding over all these matters, the mother felt like one who has evoked a spirit, but, by some irregularity in the process of conjuration, has failed to win the master-word that should control this new and incomprehensible intelligence.
Her only real comfort was when the child lay in the placidity of sleep.
But this could never be.
Pearl was a born outcast of the infantile world.
An imp of evil, emblem and product of sin, she had no right among christened infants.
Never since her release from prison had Hester met the public gaze without her.
Pearl felt the sentiment, and requited it with the bitterest hatred that can be supposed to rankle in a childish bosom.
It appalled her, nevertheless, to discern here, again, a shadowy reflection of the evil that had existed in herself.
All this enmity and passion had Pearl inherited, by inalienable right, out of Hester's heart.
The spell of life went forth from her ever-creative spirit, and communicated itself to a thousand objects, as a torch kindles a flame wherever it may be applied.
The unlikeliest materials-a stick, a bunch of rags, a flower-were the puppets of Pearl's witchcraft, and, without undergoing any outward change, became spiritually adapted to whatever drama occupied the stage of her inner world.
Her one baby-voice served a multitude of imaginary personages, old and young, to talk withal.
It was like nothing so much as the phantasmagoric play of the northern lights.
The singularity lay in the hostile feelings with which the child regarded all these offsprings of her own heart and mind.
She never created a friend, but seemed always to be sowing broadcast the dragon's teeth, whence sprung a harvest of armed enemies, against whom she rushed to battle.
But that first object of which Pearl seemed to become aware was-shall we say it?-the scarlet letter on Hester's bosom!
Again, as if her mother's agonised gesture were meant only to make sport for her, did little Pearl look into her eyes, and smile.
From that epoch, except when the child was asleep, Hester had never felt a moment's safety: not a moment's calm enjoyment of her.
It was a face, fiend-like, full of smiling malice, yet bearing the semblance of features that she had known full well, though seldom with a smile, and never with malice in them.
It was as if an evil spirit possessed the child, and had just then peeped forth in mockery.
But whether from pride or resignation, or a feeling that her penance might best be wrought out by this unutterable pain, she resisted the impulse, and sat erect, pale as death, looking sadly into little Pearl's wild eyes.
Still came the battery of flowers, almost invariably hitting the mark, and covering the mother's breast with hurts for which she could find no balm in this world, nor knew how to seek it in another.
Thou art no Pearl of mine!" said the mother half playfully; for it was often the case that a sportive impulse came over her in the midst of her deepest suffering.
Tell me, then, what thou art, and who sent thee hither?" "Tell me, mother!" said the child, seriously, coming up to Hester, and pressing herself close to her knees.
Do thou tell me!" "Thy Heavenly Father sent thee!" answered Hester Prynne. But she said it with a hesitation that did not escape the acuteness of the child.
Whether moved only by her ordinary freakishness, or because an evil spirit prompted her, she put up her small forefinger and touched the scarlet letter. "He did not send me!" cried she, positively.
I have no Heavenly Father!" "Hush, Pearl, hush!
Thou must not talk so!" answered the mother, suppressing a groan.
He sent us all into the world.
He sent even me, thy mother.
Or, if not, thou strange and elfish child, whence didst thou come?" "Tell me!
Tell me!" repeated Pearl, no longer seriously, but laughing and capering about the floor.
It is thou that must tell me!" But Hester could not resolve the query, being herself in a dismal labyrinth of doubt.
It had reached her ears that there was a design on the part of some of the leading inhabitants, cherishing the more rigid order of principles in religion and government, to deprive her of her child.
On the supposition that Pearl, as already hinted, was of demon origin, these good people not unreasonably argued that a Christian interest in the mother's soul required them to remove such a stumbling-block from her path.
Among those who promoted the design, Governor Bellingham was said to be one of the most busy.
At that epoch of pristine simplicity, however, matters of even slighter public interest, and of far less intrinsic weight than the welfare of Hester and her child, were strangely mixed up with the deliberations of legislators and acts of state.
Little Pearl, of course, was her companion.
She was now of an age to run lightly along by her mother's side, and, constantly in motion from morn till sunset, could have accomplished a much longer journey than that before her.
There was fire in her and throughout her: she seemed the unpremeditated offshoot of a passionate moment.
Her mother, in contriving the child's garb, had allowed the gorgeous tendencies of her imagination their full play, arraying her in a crimson velvet tunic of a peculiar cut, abundantly embroidered in fantasies and flourishes of gold thread.
It was the scarlet letter in another form: the scarlet letter endowed with life!
The victory accomplished, Pearl returned quietly to her mother, and looked up, smiling, into her face. Without further adventure, they reached the dwelling of Governor Bellingham.
Then, however, there was the freshness of the passing year on its exterior, and the cheerfulness, gleaming forth from the sunny windows, of a human habitation, into which death had never entered.
The brilliancy might have befitted Aladdin's palace rather than the mansion of a grave old Puritan ruler.
Yea, his honourable worship is within.
But he hath a godly minister or two with him, and likewise a leech.
Here, then, was a wide and reasonably lofty hall, extending through the whole depth of the house, and forming a medium of general communication, more or less directly, with all the other apartments.
At one extremity, this spacious room was lighted by the windows of the two towers, which formed a small recess on either side of the portal.
At the other end, though partly muffled by a curtain, it was more powerfully illuminated by one of those embowed hall windows which we read of in old books, and which was provided with a deep and cushioned seat.
This bright panoply was not meant for mere idle show, but had been worn by the Governor on many a solemn muster and training field, and had glittered, moreover, at the head of a regiment in the Pequod war.
In truth, she seemed absolutely hidden behind it.
Pearl pointed upwards also, at a similar picture in the head-piece; smiling at her mother, with the elfish intelligence that was so familiar an expression on her small physiognomy.
But the proprietor appeared already to have relinquished as hopeless, the effort to perpetuate on this side of the Atlantic, in a hard soil, and amid the close struggle for subsistence, the native English taste for ornamental gardening.
Do not cry, dear little Pearl!
I hear voices in the garden.
The Governor is coming, and gentlemen along with him." In fact, adown the vista of the garden avenue, a number of persons were seen approaching towards the house.
The wide circumference of an elaborate ruff, beneath his grey beard, in the antiquated fashion of King James's reign, caused his head to look not a little like that of John the Baptist in a charger.
The impression made by his aspect, so rigid and severe, and frost-bitten with more than autumnal age, was hardly in keeping with the appliances of worldly enjoyment wherewith he had evidently done his utmost to surround himself.
The shadow of the curtain fell on Hester Prynne, and partially concealed her. "What have we here?" said Governor Bellingham, looking with surprise at the scarlet little figure before him.
I profess, I have never seen the like since my days of vanity, in old King James's time, when I was wont to esteem it a high favour to be admitted to a court mask!
There used to be a swarm of these small apparitions in holiday time, and we called them children of the Lord of Misrule.
But how gat such a guest into my hall?" "Ay, indeed!" cried good old Mr. Wilson.
What little bird of scarlet plumage may this be?
Methinks I have seen just such figures when the sun has been shining through a richly painted window, and tracing out the golden and crimson images across the floor.
But that was in the old land.
Prithee, young one, who art thou, and what has ailed thy mother to bedizen thee in this strange fashion?
Art thou a Christian child-ha? Dost know thy catechism?
But where is this mother of thine?
I see," he added; and, turning to Governor Bellingham, whispered, "This is the selfsame child of whom we have held speech together; and behold here the unhappy woman, Hester Prynne, her mother!" "Sayest thou so?" cried the Governor.
Nay, we might have judged that such a child's mother must needs be a scarlet woman, and a worthy type of her of Babylon!
Speak thou, the child's own mother!
Were it not, thinkest thou, for thy little one's temporal and eternal welfare that she be taken out of thy charge, and clad soberly, and disciplined strictly, and instructed in the truths of heaven and earth?
Here is a child of three years old, and she cannot tell who made her!
Without question, she is equally in the dark as to her soul, its present depravity, and future destiny!
He gave her in requital of all things else which ye had taken from me.
She is my happiness-she is my torture, none the less!
Pearl keeps me here in life!
See ye not, she is the scarlet letter, only capable of being loved, and so endowed with a millionfold the power of retribution for my sin?
Ye shall not take her!
I will not give her up!
And here by a sudden impulse, she turned to the young clergyman, Mr. Dimmesdale, at whom, up to this moment, she had seemed hardly so much as once to direct her eyes.
Speak thou for me!" cried she.
Thou wast my pastor, and hadst charge of my soul, and knowest me better than these men can. I will not lose the child!
Thou knowest-for thou hast sympathies which these men lack-thou knowest what is in my heart, and what are a mother's rights, and how much the stronger they are when that mother has but her child and the scarlet letter!
Look thou to it! I will not lose the child!
God gave her the child, and gave her, too, an instinctive knowledge of its nature and requirements-both seemingly so peculiar-which no other mortal being can possess.
For, if we deem it otherwise, do we not thereby say that the Heavenly Father, the creator of all flesh, hath lightly recognised a deed of sin, and made of no account the distinction between unhallowed lust and holy love?
This child of its father's guilt and its mother's shame has come from the hand of God, to work in many ways upon her heart, who pleads so earnestly and with such bitterness of spirit the right to keep her.
It was meant for a blessing-for the one blessing of her life!
It was meant, doubtless, the mother herself hath told us, for a retribution, too; a torture to be felt at many an unthought-of moment; a pang, a sting, an ever-recurring agony, in the midst of a troubled joy!
Hath she not expressed this thought in the garb of the poor child, so forcibly reminding us of that red symbol which sears her bosom?" "Well said again!" cried good Mr. Wilson.
I feared the woman had no better thought than to make a mountebank of her child!" "Oh, not so!-not so!" continued Mr. Dimmesdale.
She recognises, believe me, the solemn miracle which God hath wrought in the existence of that child.
Herein is the sinful mother happier than the sinful father.
Yet she knew that there was love in the child's heart, although it mostly revealed itself in passion, and hardly twice in her lifetime had been softened by such gentleness as now.
She needs no old woman's broomstick to fly withal!" "A strange child!" remarked old Roger Chillingworth.
It is easy to see the mother's part in her.
Better to fast and pray upon it; and still better, it may be, to leave the mystery as we find it, unless Providence reveal it of its own accord.
Thereby, every good Christian man hath a title to show a father's kindness towards the poor, deserted babe." The affair being so satisfactorily concluded, Hester Prynne, with Pearl, departed from the house.
Wilt thou go with us tonight?
There will be a merry company in the forest; and I well-nigh promised the Black Man that comely Hester Prynne should make one." "Make my excuse to him, so please you!" answered Hester, with a triumphant smile.
I must tarry at home, and keep watch over my little Pearl.
Even thus early had the child saved her from Satan's snare. IX. THE LEECH Under the appellation of Roger Chillingworth, the reader will remember, was hidden another name, which its former wearer had resolved should never more be spoken.
Her matronly fame was trodden under all men's feet.
Infamy was babbling around her in the public market-place.
Then why-since the choice was with himself-should the individual, whose connexion with the fallen woman had been the most intimate and sacred of them all, come forward to vindicate his claim to an inheritance so little desirable?
He resolved not to be pilloried beside her on her pedestal of shame.
They seldom, it would appear, partook of the religious zeal that brought other emigrants across the Atlantic.
The only surgeon was one who combined the occasional exercise of that noble art with the daily and habitual flourish of a razor.
To such a professional body Roger Chillingworth was a brilliant acquisition.
He soon manifested his familiarity with the ponderous and imposing machinery of antique physic; in which every remedy contained a multitude of far-fetched and heterogeneous ingredients, as elaborately compounded as if the proposed result had been the Elixir of Life.
About this period, however, the health of Mr. Dimmesdale had evidently begun to fail.
Some declared, that if Mr. Dimmesdale were really going to die, it was cause enough that the world was not worthy to be any longer trodden by his feet.
He himself, on the other hand, with characteristic humility, avowed his belief that if Providence should see fit to remove him, it would be because of his own unworthiness to perform its humblest mission here on earth.
With all this difference of opinion as to the cause of his decline, there could be no question of the fact.
His first entry on the scene, few people could tell whence, dropping down as it were out of the sky or starting from the nether earth, had an aspect of mystery, which was easily heightened to the miraculous.
He was heard to speak of Sir Kenelm Digby and other famous men-whose scientific attainments were esteemed hardly less than supernatural-as having been his correspondents or associates.
Why, with such rank in the learned world, had he come hither?
What, could he, whose sphere was in great cities, be seeking in the wilderness?
He expressed great alarm at his pastor's state of health, but was anxious to attempt the cure, and, if early undertaken, seemed not despondent of a favourable result.
The elders, the deacons, the motherly dames, and the young and fair maidens of Mr. Dimmesdale's flock, were alike importunate that he should make trial of the physician's frankly offered skill.
Was he weary of his labours?
Did he wish to die?
Youthful men, not having taken a deep root, give up their hold of life so easily!
As not only the disease interested the physician, but he was strongly moved to look into the character and qualities of the patient, these two men, so different in age, came gradually to spend much time together.
Often, likewise, one was the guest of the other in his place of study and retirement.
In truth, he was startled, if not shocked, to find this attribute in the physician.
Not the less, however, though with a tremulous enjoyment, did he feel the occasional relief of looking at the universe through the medium of another kind of intellect than those with which he habitually held converse.
But the air was too fresh and chill to be long breathed with comfort.
He deemed it essential, it would seem, to know the man, before attempting to do him good. Wherever there is a heart and an intellect, the diseases of the physical frame are tinged with the peculiarities of these.
In Arthur Dimmesdale, thought and imagination were so active, and sensibility so intense, that the bodily infirmity would be likely to have its groundwork there.
So Roger Chillingworth-the man of skill, the kind and friendly physician-strove to go deep into his patient's bosom, delving among his principles, prying into his recollections, and probing everything with a cautious touch, like a treasure-seeker in a dark cavern.
Few secrets can escape an investigator, who has opportunity and licence to undertake such a quest, and skill to follow it up.
A man burdened with a secret should especially avoid the intimacy of his physician.
The latter had his suspicions, indeed, that even the nature of Mr. Dimmesdale's bodily disease had never fairly been revealed to him.
There was much joy throughout the town when this greatly desirable object was attained.
This latter step, however, there was no present prospect that Arthur Dimmesdale would be prevailed upon to take; he rejected all suggestions of the kind, as if priestly celibacy were one of his articles of Church discipline.
It had the graveyard, originally Isaac Johnson's home-field, on one side, and so was well adapted to call up serious reflections, suited to their respective employments, in both minister and man of physic.
The motherly care of the good widow assigned to Mr. Dimmesdale a front apartment, with a sunny exposure, and heavy window-curtains, to create a noontide shadow when desirable.
When an uninstructed multitude attempts to see with its eyes, it is exceedingly apt to be deceived.
When, however, it forms its judgment, as it usually does, on the intuitions of its great and warm heart, the conclusions thus attained are often so profound and so unerring as to possess the character of truth supernaturally revealed.
The people, in the case of which we speak, could justify its prejudice against Roger Chillingworth by no fact or argument worthy of serious refutation.
At first, his expression had been calm, meditative, scholar-like.
Now there was something ugly and evil in his face, which they had not previously noticed, and which grew still the more obvious to sight the oftener they looked upon him.
This diabolical agent had the Divine permission, for a season, to burrow into the clergyman's intimacy, and plot against his soul.
No sensible man, it was confessed, could doubt on which side the victory would turn.
The people looked, with an unshaken hope, to see the minister come forth out of the conflict transfigured with the glory which he would unquestionably win.
But, as he proceeded, a terrible fascination, a kind of fierce, though still calm, necessity, seized the old man within its gripe, and never set him free again until he had done all its bidding.
Trusting no man as his friend, he could not recognize his enemy when the latter actually appeared.
They are new to me.
I found them growing on a grave, which bore no tombstone, no other memorial of the dead man, save these ugly weeds, that have taken upon themselves to keep him in remembrance.
The heart, making itself guilty of such secrets, must perforce hold them, until the day when all hidden things shall be revealed.
Nor have I so read or interpreted Holy Writ, as to understand that the disclosure of human thoughts and deeds, then to be made, is intended as a part of the retribution.
That, surely, were a shallow view of it.
No; these revelations, unless I greatly err, are meant merely to promote the intellectual satisfaction of all intelligent beings, who will stand waiting, on that day, to see the dark problem of this life made plain.
A knowledge of men's hearts will be needful to the completest solution of that problem.
Why should not the guilty ones sooner avail themselves of this unutterable solace?" "They mostly do," said the clergyman, griping hard at his breast, as if afflicted with an importunate throb of pain.
Many, many a poor soul hath given its confidence to me, not only on the death-bed, but while strong in life, and fair in reputation.
And ever, after such an outpouring, oh, what a relief have I witnessed in those sinful brethren! even as in one who at last draws free air, after a long stifling with his own polluted breath.
How can it be otherwise?
But not to suggest more obvious reasons, it may be that they are kept silent by the very constitution of their nature.
They fear to take up the shame that rightfully belongs to them.
But, if they seek to glorify God, let them not lift heavenward their unclean hands!
If they would serve their fellowmen, let them do it by making manifest the power and reality of conscience, in constraining them to penitential self-abasement!
Would thou have me to believe, O wise and pious friend, that a false show can be better-can be more for God's glory, or man's welfare-than God's own truth?
Trust me, such men deceive themselves!" "It may be so," said the young clergyman, indifferently, as waiving a discussion that he considered irrelevant or unseasonable.
Looking instinctively from the open window-for it was summer-time-the minister beheld Hester Prynne and little Pearl passing along the footpath that traversed the enclosure.
Pearl looked as beautiful as the day, but was in one of those moods of perverse merriment which, whenever they occurred, seemed to remove her entirely out of the sphere of sympathy or human contact.
She now skipped irreverently from one grave to another; until coming to the broad, flat, armorial tombstone of a departed worthy-perhaps of Isaac Johnson himself-she began to dance upon it.
In reply to her mother's command and entreaty that she would behave more decorously, little Pearl paused to gather the prickly burrs from a tall burdock which grew beside the tomb.
Taking a handful of these, she arranged them along the lines of the scarlet letter that decorated the maternal bosom, to which the burrs, as their nature was, tenaciously adhered.
I saw her, the other day, bespatter the Governor himself with water at the cattle-trough in Spring Lane.
What, in heaven's name, is she?
Is the imp altogether evil?
The sensitive clergyman shrank, with nervous dread, from the light missile. Detecting his emotion, Pearl clapped her little hands in the most extravagant ecstacy.
Hester Prynne, likewise, had involuntarily looked up, and all these four persons, old and young, regarded one another in silence, till the child laughed aloud, and shouted-"Come away, mother! Come away, or yonder old black man will catch you!
He hath got hold of the minister already.
Come away, mother or he will catch you!
Is Hester Prynne the less miserable, think you, for that scarlet letter on her breast?" "I do verily believe it," answered the clergyman.
Nevertheless, I cannot answer for her.
There was a look of pain in her face which I would gladly have been spared the sight of.
He to whom only the outward and physical evil is laid open, knoweth, oftentimes, but half the evil which he is called upon to cure.
A bodily disease, which we look upon as whole and entire within itself, may, after all, be but a symptom of some ailment in the spiritual part.
Your pardon once again, good sir, if my speech give the shadow of offence.
Would you, therefore, that your physician heal the bodily evil?
But, if it be the soul's disease, then do I commit myself to the one Physician of the soul!
We shall be friends again anon.
But see, now, how passion takes hold upon this man, and hurrieth him out of himself!
As with one passion so with another.
He marvelled, indeed, at the violence with which he had thrust back the kind old man, when merely proffering the advice which it was his duty to bestow, and which the minister himself had expressly sought.
This expression was invisible in Mr. Dimmesdale's presence, but grew strongly evident as the physician crossed the threshold. "A rare case," he muttered.
I must needs look deeper into it.
A strange sympathy betwixt soul and body!
It must have been a work of vast ability in the somniferous school of literature.
The profound depth of the minister's repose was the more remarkable, inasmuch as he was one of those persons whose sleep ordinarily is as light as fitful, and as easily scared away, as a small bird hopping on a twig.
To such an unwonted remoteness, however, had his spirit now withdrawn into itself that he stirred not in his chair when old Roger Chillingworth, without any extraordinary precaution, came into the room.
The intellect of Roger Chillingworth had now a sufficiently plain path before it.
To make himself the one trusted friend, to whom should be confided all the fear, the remorse, the agony, the ineffectual repentance, the backward rush of sinful thoughts, expelled in vain!
All that guilty sorrow, hidden from the world, whose great heart would have pitied and forgiven, to be revealed to him, the Pitiless-to him, the Unforgiving!
All that dark treasure to be lavished on the very man, to whom nothing else could so adequately pay the debt of vengeance! The clergyman's shy and sensitive reserve had balked this scheme.
A revelation, he could almost say, had been granted to him.
It mattered little for his object, whether celestial or from what other region.
He became, thenceforth, not a spectator only, but a chief actor in the poor minister's interior world.
He could play upon him as he chose.
Would he arouse him with a throb of agony?
The victim was for ever on the rack; it needed only to know the spring that controlled the engine: and the physician knew it well.
Would he startle him with sudden fear?
True, he looked doubtfully, fearfully-even, at times, with horror and the bitterness of hatred-at the deformed figure of the old physician.
For, as it was impossible to assign a reason for such distrust and abhorrence, so Mr. Dimmesdale, conscious that the poison of one morbid spot was infecting his heart's entire substance, attributed all his presentiments to no other cause.
He took himself to task for his bad sympathies in reference to Roger Chillingworth, disregarded the lesson that he should have drawn from them, and did his best to root them out.
He won it indeed, in great part, by his sorrows.
His intellectual gifts, his moral perceptions, his power of experiencing and communicating emotion, were kept in a state of preternatural activity by the prick and anguish of his daily life.
His fame, though still on its upward slope, already overshadowed the soberer reputations of his fellow-clergymen, eminent as several of them were.
These fathers, otherwise so apostolic, lacked Heaven's last and rarest attestation of their office, the Tongue of Flame.
They would have vainly sought-had they ever dreamed of seeking-to express the highest truths through the humblest medium of familiar words and images.
Their voices came down, afar and indistinctly, from the upper heights where they habitually dwelt. Not improbably, it was to this latter class of men that Mr. Dimmesdale, by many of his traits of character, naturally belonged.
To the high mountain peaks of faith and sanctity he would have climbed, had not the tendency been thwarted by the burden, whatever it might be, of crime or anguish, beneath which it was his doom to totter.
It kept him down on a level with the lowest; him, the man of ethereal attributes, whose voice the angels might else have listened to and answered!
Oftenest persuasive, but sometimes terrible!
The people knew not the power that moved them thus.
They deemed the young clergyman a miracle of holiness.
They fancied him the mouth-piece of Heaven's messages of wisdom, and rebuke, and love.
In their eyes, the very ground on which he trod was sanctified.
It was his genuine impulse to adore the truth, and to reckon all things shadow-like, and utterly devoid of weight or value, that had not its divine essence as the life within their life.
Then what was he?-a substance?-or the dimmest of all shadows?
He longed to speak out from his own pulpit at the full height of his voice, and tell the people what he was.
More than once he had cleared his throat, and drawn in the long, deep, and tremulous breath, which, when sent forth again, would come burdened with the black secret of his soul.
More than once-nay, more than a hundred times-he had actually spoken!
Could there be plainer speech than this?
Would not the people start up in their seats, by a simultaneous impulse, and tear him down out of the pulpit which he defiled?
They heard it all, and did but reverence him the more.
They little guessed what deadly purport lurked in those self-condemning words.
The godly youth!" said they among themselves.
Alas! if he discern such sinfulness in his own white soul, what horrid spectacle would he behold in thine or mine!
The minister well knew-subtle, but remorseful hypocrite that he was!-the light in which his vague confession would be viewed.
He had striven to put a cheat upon himself by making the avowal of a guilty conscience, but had gained only one other sin, and a self-acknowledged shame, without the momentary relief of being self-deceived.
He had spoken the very truth, and transformed it into the veriest falsehood.
In Mr. Dimmesdale's secret closet, under lock and key, there was a bloody scourge.
Oftentimes, this Protestant and Puritan divine had plied it on his own shoulders, laughing bitterly at himself the while, and smiting so much the more pitilessly because of that bitter laugh.
He kept vigils, likewise, night after night, sometimes in utter darkness, sometimes with a glimmering lamp, and sometimes, viewing his own face in a looking-glass, by the most powerful light which he could throw upon it.
He thus typified the constant introspection wherewith he tortured, but could not purify himself.
Now came the dead friends of his youth, and his white-bearded father, with a saint-like frown, and his mother turning her face away as she passed by.
Ghost of a mother-thinnest fantasy of a mother-methinks she might yet have thrown a pitying glance towards her son!
But, for all that, they were, in one sense, the truest and most substantial things which the poor minister now dealt with.
It is the unspeakable misery of a life so false as his, that it steals the pith and substance out of whatever realities there are around us, and which were meant by Heaven to be the spirit's joy and nutriment.
To the untrue man, the whole universe is false-it is impalpable-it shrinks to nothing within his grasp.
And he himself in so far as he shows himself in a false light, becomes a shadow, or, indeed, ceases to exist.
The only truth that continued to give Mr. Dimmesdale a real existence on this earth was the anguish in his inmost soul, and the undissembled expression of it in his aspect.
A new thought had struck him.
There might be a moment's peace in it.
The same platform or scaffold, black and weather-stained with the storm or sunshine of seven long years, and foot-worn, too, with the tread of many culprits who had since ascended it, remained standing beneath the balcony of the meeting-house.
The minister went up the steps. It was an obscure night in early May.
An unvaried pall of cloud muffled the whole expanse of sky from zenith to horizon.
But the town was all asleep. There was no peril of discovery.
No eye could see him, save that ever-wakeful one which had seen him in his closet, wielding the bloody scourge.
Why, then, had he come hither?
Was it but the mockery of penitence?
A mockery, indeed, but in which his soul trifled with itself!
A mockery at which angels blushed and wept, while fiends rejoiced with jeering laughter!
Poor, miserable man! what right had infirmity like his to burden itself with crime?
Crime is for the iron-nerved, who have their choice either to endure it, or, if it press too hard, to exert their fierce and savage strength for a good purpose, and fling it off at once!
On that spot, in very truth, there was, and there had long been, the gnawing and poisonous tooth of bodily pain.
The shriek had perhaps sounded with a far greater power, to his own startled ears, than it actually possessed.
The clergyman, therefore, hearing no symptoms of disturbance, uncovered his eyes and looked about him.
He looked like a ghost evoked unseasonably from the grave.
The cry had evidently startled him.
At another window of the same house, moreover appeared old Mistress Hibbins, the Governor's sister, also with a lamp, which even thus far off revealed the expression of her sour and discontented face.
Possibly, she went up among the clouds.
The minister saw nothing further of her motions.
The magistrate, after a wary observation of the darkness-into which, nevertheless, he could see but little further than he might into a mill-stone-retired from the window. The minister grew comparatively calm.
His eyes, however, were soon greeted by a little glimmering light, which, at first a long way off was approaching up the street.
The good old minister came freshly from the death-chamber of Governor Winthrop, who had passed from earth to heaven within that very hour.
Come up hither, I pray you, and pass a pleasant hour with me!" Good Heavens!
Had Mr. Dimmesdale actually spoken?
For one instant he believed that these words had passed his lips.
But they were uttered only within his imagination.
The venerable Father Wilson continued to step slowly onward, looking carefully at the muddy pathway before his feet, and never once turning his head towards the guilty platform.
He felt his limbs growing stiff with the unaccustomed chilliness of the night, and doubted whether he should be able to descend the steps of the scaffold.
Morning would break and find him there.
The neighbourhood would begin to rouse itself.
A dusky tumult would flap its wings from one house to another.
Then-the morning light still waxing stronger-old patriarchs would rise up in great haste, each in his flannel gown, and matronly dames, without pausing to put off their night-gear.
The whole tribe of decorous personages, who had never heretofore been seen with a single hair of their heads awry, would start into public view with the disorder of a nightmare in their aspects.
All people, in a word, would come stumbling over their thresholds, and turning up their amazed and horror-stricken visages around the scaffold.
Whom would they discern there, with the red eastern light upon his brow?
It was immediately responded to by a light, airy, childish laugh, in which, with a thrill of the heart-but he knew not whether of exquisite pain, or pleasure as acute-he recognised the tones of little Pearl. "Pearl!
Little Pearl!" cried he, after a moment's pause; then, suppressing his voice-"Hester!
Are you there?" "Yes; it is Hester Prynne!" she replied, in a tone of surprise; and the minister heard her footsteps approaching from the side-walk, along which she had been passing.
It is I, and my little Pearl." "Whence come you, Hester?" asked the minister.
Ye have both been here before, but I was not with you. Come up hither once again, and we will stand all three together." She silently ascended the steps, and stood on the platform, holding little Pearl by the hand.
The minister felt for the child's other hand, and took it.
I shall, indeed, stand with thy mother and thee one other day, but not tomorrow." Pearl laughed, and attempted to pull away her hand.
Then, and there, before the judgment-seat, thy mother, and thou, and I must stand together.
But the daylight of this world shall not see our meeting!" Pearl laughed again. But before Mr. Dimmesdale had done speaking, a light gleamed far and wide over all the muffled sky.
It was doubtless caused by one of those meteors, which the night-watcher may so often observe burning out to waste, in the vacant regions of the atmosphere.
So powerful was its radiance, that it thoroughly illuminated the dense medium of cloud betwixt the sky and earth.
The great vault brightened, like the dome of an immense lamp.
It showed the familiar scene of the street with the distinctness of mid-day, but also with the awfulness that is always imparted to familiar objects by an unaccustomed light.
And there stood the minister, with his hand over his heart; and Hester Prynne, with the embroidered letter glimmering on her bosom; and little Pearl, herself a symbol, and the connecting link between those two.
She withdrew her hand from Mr. Dimmesdale's, and pointed across the street.
Thus, a blazing spear, a sword of flame, a bow, or a sheaf of arrows seen in the midnight sky, prefigured Indian warfare.
Pestilence was known to have been foreboded by a shower of crimson light.
We doubt whether any marked event, for good or evil, ever befell New England, from its settlement down to revolutionary times, of which the inhabitants had not been previously warned by some spectacle of its nature.
Not seldom, it had been seen by multitudes.
Oftener, however, its credibility rested on the faith of some lonely eye-witness, who beheld the wonder through the coloured, magnifying, and distorted medium of his imagination, and shaped it more distinctly in his after-thought.
It was, indeed, a majestic idea that the destiny of nations should be revealed, in these awful hieroglyphics, on the cope of heaven.
A scroll so wide might not be deemed too expensive for Providence to write a people's doom upon.
The belief was a favourite one with our forefathers, as betokening that their infant commonwealth was under a celestial guardianship of peculiar intimacy and strictness.
But what shall we say, when an individual discovers a revelation addressed to himself alone, on the same vast sheet of record.
All the time that he gazed upward to the zenith, he was, nevertheless, perfectly aware that little Pearl was pointing her finger towards old Roger Chillingworth, who stood at no great distance from the scaffold.
The minister appeared to see him, with the same glance that discerned the miraculous letter.
Dost thou know the man?
I hate him, Hester!" She remembered her oath, and was silent. "I tell thee, my soul shivers at him!" muttered the minister again. "Who is he?
Canst thou do nothing for me?
I have a nameless horror of the man!" "Minister," said little Pearl, "I can tell thee who he is!" "Quickly, then, child!" said the minister, bending his ear close to her lips.
Quickly, and as low as thou canst whisper." Pearl mumbled something into his ear that sounded, indeed, like human language, but was only such gibberish as children may be heard amusing themselves with by the hour together.
At all events, if it involved any secret information in regard to old Roger Chillingworth, it was in a tongue unknown to the erudite clergyman, and did but increase the bewilderment of his mind.
The elvish child then laughed aloud. "Dost thou mock me now?" said the minister. "Thou wast not bold!-thou wast not true!" answered the child.
Thou wouldst not promise to take my hand, and mother's hand, tomorrow noontide!" "Worthy sir," answered the physician, who had now advanced to the foot of the platform-"pious Master Dimmesdale! can this be you?
We men of study, whose heads are in our books, have need to be straitly looked after!
We dream in our waking moments, and walk in our sleep.
Come, good sir, and my dear friend, I pray you let me lead you home!" "How knewest thou that I was here?" asked the minister, fearfully. "Verily, and in good faith," answered Roger Chillingworth, "I knew nothing of the matter.
I had spent the better part of the night at the bedside of the worshipful Governor Winthrop, doing what my poor skill might to give him ease.
He, going home to a better world, I, likewise, was on my way homeward, when this light shone out.
Come with me, I beseech you, Reverend sir, else you will be poorly able to do Sabbath duty tomorrow.
Aha! see now how they trouble the brain-these books!-these books!
Souls, it is said, more souls than one, were brought to the truth by the efficacy of that sermon, and vowed within themselves to cherish a holy gratitude towards Mr. Dimmesdale throughout the long hereafter.
Satan dropped it there, I take it, intending a scurrilous jest against your reverence.
But, indeed, he was blind and foolish, as he ever and always is.
But did your reverence hear of the portent that was seen last night? a great red letter in the sky-the letter A, which we interpret to stand for Angel.
His nerve seemed absolutely destroyed.
His moral force was abased into more than childish weakness.
It grovelled helpless on the ground, even while his intellectual faculties retained their pristine strength, or had perhaps acquired a morbid energy, which disease only could have given them.
Knowing what this poor fallen man had once been, her whole soul was moved by the shuddering terror with which he had appealed to her-the outcast woman-for support against his instinctively discovered enemy.
She decided, moreover, that he had a right to her utmost aid.
The links that united her to the rest of humankind-links of flowers, or silk, or gold, or whatever the material-had all been broken.
Here was the iron link of mutual crime, which neither he nor she could break.
Like all other ties, it brought along with it its obligations. Hester Prynne did not now occupy precisely the same position in which we beheld her during the earlier periods of her ignominy.
Years had come and gone.
Pearl was now seven years old.
Her mother, with the scarlet letter on her breast, glittering in its fantastic embroidery, had long been a familiar object to the townspeople.
It is to the credit of human nature that, except where its selfishness is brought into play, it loves more readily than it hates.
None so self-devoted as Hester when pestilence stalked through the town.
In all seasons of calamity, indeed, whether general or of individuals, the outcast of society at once found her place.
She came, not as a guest, but as a rightful inmate, into the household that was darkened by trouble, as if its gloomy twilight were a medium in which she was entitled to hold intercourse with her fellow-creature.
There glimmered the embroidered letter, with comfort in its unearthly ray.
Elsewhere the token of sin, it was the taper of the sick chamber.
It had even thrown its gleam, in the sufferer's hard extremity, across the verge of time.
It had shown him where to set his foot, while the light of earth was fast becoming dim, and ere the light of futurity could reach him.
In such emergencies Hester's nature showed itself warm and rich-a well-spring of human tenderness, unfailing to every real demand, and inexhaustible by the largest.
Her breast, with its badge of shame, was but the softer pillow for the head that needed one.
She was self-ordained a Sister of Mercy, or, we may rather say, the world's heavy hand had so ordained her, when neither the world nor she looked forward to this result.
The letter was the symbol of her calling.
Such helpfulness was found in her-so much power to do, and power to sympathise-that many people refused to interpret the scarlet A by its original signification.
They said that it meant Able, so strong was Hester Prynne, with a woman's strength. It was only the darkened house that could contain her.
When sunshine came again, she was not there.
Her shadow had faded across the threshold.
The helpful inmate had departed, without one backward glance to gather up the meed of gratitude, if any were in the hearts of those whom she had served so zealously.
Meeting them in the street, she never raised her head to receive their greeting.
The prejudices which they shared in common with the latter were fortified in themselves by an iron frame-work of reasoning, that made it a far tougher labour to expel them.
Do you see that woman with the embroidered badge?" they would say to strangers.
It is our Hester-the town's own Hester-who is so kind to the poor, so helpful to the sick, so comfortable to the afflicted!
Then, it is true, the propensity of human nature to tell the very worst of itself, when embodied in the person of another, would constrain them to whisper the black scandal of bygone years.
It was none the less a fact, however, that in the eyes of the very men who spoke thus, the scarlet letter had the effect of the cross on a nun's bosom.
It imparted to the wearer a kind of sacredness, which enabled her to walk securely amid all peril.
Had she fallen among thieves, it would have kept her safe.
It was a sad transformation, too, that her rich and luxuriant hair had either been cut off, or was so completely hidden by a cap, that not a shining lock of it ever once gushed into the sunshine.
If she be all tenderness, she will die.
If she survive, the tenderness will either be crushed out of her, or-and the outward semblance is the same-crushed so deeply into her heart that it can never show itself more.
The latter is perhaps the truest theory.
She who has once been a woman, and ceased to be so, might at any moment become a woman again, if there were only the magic touch to effect the transformation.
The world's law was no law for her mind.
It was an age in which the human intellect, newly emancipated, had taken a more active and a wider range than for many centuries before.
Men of the sword had overthrown nobles and kings.
Men bolder than these had overthrown and rearranged-not actually, but within the sphere of theory, which was their most real abode-the whole system of ancient prejudice, wherewith was linked much of ancient principle.
Hester Prynne imbibed this spirit.
She assumed a freedom of speculation, then common enough on the other side of the Atlantic, but which our forefathers, had they known it, would have held to be a deadlier crime than that stigmatised by the scarlet letter.
The thought suffices them, without investing itself in the flesh and blood of action.
So it seemed to be with Hester.
Yet, had little Pearl never come to her from the spiritual world, it might have been far otherwise.
Then she might have come down to us in history, hand in hand with Ann Hutchinson, as the foundress of a religious sect. She might, in one of her phases, have been a prophetess.
She might, and not improbably would, have suffered death from the stern tribunals of the period, for attempting to undermine the foundations of the Puritan establishment.
But, in the education of her child, the mother's enthusiasm of thought had something to wreak itself upon.
Providence, in the person of this little girl, had assigned to Hester's charge, the germ and blossom of womanhood, to be cherished and developed amid a host of difficulties.
Was existence worth accepting even to the happiest among them?
As concerned her own individual existence, she had long ago decided in the negative, and dismissed the point as settled.
A tendency to speculation, though it may keep women quiet, as it does man, yet makes her sad.
She discerns, it may be, such a hopeless task before her.
As a first step, the whole system of society is to be torn down and built up anew.
Then the very nature of the opposite sex, or its long hereditary habit, which has become like nature, is to be essentially modified before woman can be allowed to assume what seems a fair and suitable position.
A woman never overcomes these problems by any exercise of thought.
They are not to be solved, or only in one way.
If her heart chance to come uppermost, they vanish.
Thus Hester Prynne, whose heart had lost its regular and healthy throb, wandered without a clue in the dark labyrinth of mind; now turned aside by an insurmountable precipice; now starting back from a deep chasm.
There was wild and ghastly scenery all around her, and a home and comfort nowhere.
She had witnessed the intense misery beneath which the minister struggled, or, to speak more accurately, had ceased to struggle.
A secret enemy had been continually by his side, under the semblance of a friend and helper, and had availed himself of the opportunities thus afforded for tampering with the delicate springs of Mr. Dimmesdale's nature.
Her only justification lay in the fact that she had been able to discern no method of rescuing him from a blacker ruin than had overwhelmed herself except by acquiescing in Roger Chillingworth's scheme of disguise.
Under that impulse she had made her choice, and had chosen, as it now appeared, the more wretched alternative of the two.
She determined to redeem her error so far as it might yet be possible.
She had climbed her way since then to a higher point.
The occasion was not long to seek.
So the child flew away like a bird, and, making bare her small white feet went pattering along the moist margin of the sea.
But the visionary little maid on her part, beckoned likewise, as if to say-"This is a better place; come thou into the pool.
I would speak a word with you," said she-"a word that concerns us much." "Aha! and is it Mistress Hester that has a word for old Roger Chillingworth?" answered he, raising himself from his stooping posture. "With all my heart!
Why, mistress, I hear good tidings of you on all hands!
No longer ago than yester-eve, a magistrate, a wise and godly man, was discoursing of your affairs, Mistress Hester, and whispered me that there had been question concerning you in the council.
It was debated whether or no, with safety to the commonweal, yonder scarlet letter might be taken off your bosom.
On my life, Hester, I made my intreaty to the worshipful magistrate that it might be done forthwith." "It lies not in the pleasure of the magistrates to take off the badge," calmly replied Hester.
It was not so much that he had grown older; for though the traces of advancing life were visible, he bore his age well, and seemed to retain a wiry vigour and alertness.
But the former aspect of an intellectual and studious man, calm and quiet, which was what she best remembered in him, had altogether vanished, and been succeeded by an eager, searching, almost fierce, yet carefully guarded look.
It seemed to be his wish and purpose to mask this expression with a smile, but the latter played him false, and flickered over his visage so derisively that the spectator could see his blackness all the better for it.
Not to hide the truth, Mistress Hester, my thoughts happen just now to be busy with the gentleman.
So speak freely and I will make answer." "When we last spake together," said Hester, "now seven years ago, it was your pleasure to extort a promise of secrecy as touching the former relation betwixt yourself and me.
As the life and good fame of yonder man were in your hands there seemed no choice to me, save to be silent in accordance with your behest.
Since that day no man is so near to him as you.
You tread behind his every footstep.
You are beside him, sleeping and waking.
You burrow and rankle in his heart!
Your clutch is on his life, and you cause him to die daily a living death, and still he knows you not.
In permitting this I have surely acted a false part by the only man to whom the power was left me to be true!" "What choice had you?" asked Roger Chillingworth.
My finger, pointed at this man, would have hurled him from his pulpit into a dungeon, thence, peradventure, to the gallows!" "It had been better so!" said Hester Prynne. "What evil have I done the man?" asked Roger Chillingworth again.
I tell thee, Hester Prynne, the richest fee that ever physician earned from monarch could not have bought such care as I have wasted on this miserable priest!
But for my aid his life would have burned away in torments within the first two years after the perpetration of his crime and thine.
For, Hester, his spirit lacked the strength that could have borne up, as thine has, beneath a burden like thy scarlet letter.
Oh, I could reveal a goodly secret!
What art can do, I have exhausted on him.
Better had he died at once!
Never did mortal suffer what this man has suffered.
And all, all, in the sight of his worst enemy!
He has been conscious of me. He has felt an influence dwelling always upon him like a curse.
But he knew not that the eye and hand were mine!
But it was the constant shadow of my presence, the closest propinquity of the man whom he had most vilely wronged, and who had grown to exist only by this perpetual poison of the direst revenge!
Yea, indeed, he did not err, there was a fiend at his elbow!
Not improbably he had never before viewed himself as he did now. "Hast thou not tortured him enough?" said Hester, noticing the old man's look.
Has he not paid thee all?" "No, no!
He has but increased the debt!" answered the physician, and as he proceeded, his manner lost its fiercer characteristics, and subsided into gloom.
No life had been more peaceful and innocent than mine; few lives so rich with benefits conferred.
Was I not, though you might deem me cold, nevertheless a man thoughtful for others, craving little for himself-kind, true, just and of constant, if not warm affections?
Was I not all this?" "All this, and more," said Hester. "And what am I now?" demanded he, looking into her face, and permitting the whole evil within him to be written on his features.
I have already told thee what I am-a fiend!
Who made me so?" "It was myself," cried Hester, shuddering.
And now what wouldst thou with me touching this man?" "I must reveal the secret," answered Hester, firmly.
He must discern thee in thy true character.
What may be the result I know not.
But this long debt of confidence, due from me to him, whose bane and ruin I have been, shall at length be paid.
So far as concerns the overthrow or preservation of his fair fame and his earthly state, and perchance his life, he is in my hands.
There is no good for him, no good for me, no good for thee.
There is no good for little Pearl.
Peradventure, hadst thou met earlier with a better love than mine, this evil had not been.
I pity thee, for the good that has been wasted in thy nature." "And I thee," answered Hester Prynne, "for the hatred that has transformed a wise and just man to a fiend!
Wilt thou yet purge it out of thee, and be once more human?
If not for his sake, then doubly for thine own!
Forgive, and leave his further retribution to the Power that claims it!
There might be good for thee, and thee alone, since thou hast been deeply wronged and hast it at thy will to pardon.
Wilt thou give up that only privilege?
Wilt thou reject that priceless benefit?" "Peace, Hester-peace!" replied the old man, with gloomy sternness-"it is not granted me to pardon.
I have no such power as thou tellest me of.
My old faith, long forgotten, comes back to me, and explains all that we do, and all we suffer.
By thy first step awry, thou didst plant the germ of evil; but since that moment it has all been a dark necessity.
Ye that have wronged me are not sinful, save in a kind of typical illusion; neither am I fiend-like, who have snatched a fiend's office from his hands.
Let the black flower blossom as it may!
He gathered here and there a herb, or grubbed up a root and put it into the basket on his arm.
His gray beard almost touched the ground as he crept onward.
She wondered what sort of herbs they were which the old man was so sedulous to gather.
Would not the earth, quickened to an evil purpose by the sympathy of his eye, greet him with poisonous shrubs of species hitherto unknown, that would start up under his fingers?
Or might it suffice him that every wholesome growth should be converted into something deleterious and malignant at his touch?
Did the sun, which shone so brightly everywhere else, really fall upon him? Or was there, as it rather seemed, a circle of ominous shadow moving along with his deformity whichever way he turned himself?
And whither was he now going?
He needed to bask himself in that smile, he said, in order that the chill of so many lonely hours among his books might be taken off the scholar's heart.
Such scenes had once appeared not otherwise than happy, but now, as viewed through the dismal medium of her subsequent life, they classed themselves among her ugliest remembrances.
She marvelled how such scenes could have been!
She marvelled how she could ever have been wrought upon to marry him!
She deemed it her crime most to be repented of, that she had ever endured and reciprocated the lukewarm grasp of his hand, and had suffered the smile of her lips and eyes to mingle and melt into his own.
He has done me worse wrong than I did him!" Let men tremble to win the hand of woman, unless they win along with it the utmost passion of her heart!
But Hester ought long ago to have done with this injustice.
Where are you?" Pearl, whose activity of spirit never flagged, had been at no loss for amusement while her mother talked with the old gatherer of herbs.
At first, as already told, she had flirted fancifully with her own image in a pool of water, beckoning the phantom forth, and-as it declined to venture-seeking a passage for herself into its sphere of impalpable earth and unattainable sky.
Soon finding, however, that either she or the image was unreal, she turned elsewhere for better pastime.
She made little boats out of birch-bark, and freighted them with snailshells, and sent out more ventures on the mighty deep than any merchant in New England; but the larger part of them foundered near the shore.
Perceiving a flock of beach-birds that fed and fluttered along the shore, the naughty child picked up her apron full of pebbles, and, creeping from rock to rock after these small sea-fowl, displayed remarkable dexterity in pelting them.
One little gray bird, with a white breast, Pearl was almost sure had been hit by a pebble, and fluttered away with a broken wing.
She inherited her mother's gift for devising drapery and costume.
As the last touch to her mermaid's garb, Pearl took some eel-grass and imitated, as best she could, on her own bosom the decoration with which she was so familiar on her mother's.
A letter-the letter A-but freshly green instead of scarlet.
But dost thou know, my child, what this letter means which thy mother is doomed to wear?" "Yes, mother," said the child.
It is the great letter A.
Ask yonder old man whom thou hast been talking with,-it may be he can tell.
The thought occurred to Hester, that the child might really be seeking to approach her with childlike confidence, and doing what she could, and as intelligently as she knew how, to establish a meeting-point of sympathy.
And this, moreover, was a mother's estimate of the child's disposition.
Any other observer might have seen few but unamiable traits, and have given them a far darker colouring.
From the earliest epoch of her conscious life, she had entered upon this as her appointed mission.
No! if this be the price of the child's sympathy, I cannot pay it." Then she spoke aloud- "Silly Pearl," said she, "what questions are these?
There are many things in this world that a child must not ask about.
What know I of the minister's heart?
And as for the scarlet letter, I wear it for the sake of its gold thread." In all the seven bygone years, Hester Prynne had never before been false to the symbol on her bosom.
As for little Pearl, the earnestness soon passed out of her face. But the child did not see fit to let the matter drop.
He would probably return by a certain hour in the afternoon of the morrow.
It straggled onward into the mystery of the primeval forest.
The day was chill and sombre.
Overhead was a gray expanse of cloud, slightly stirred, however, by a breeze; so that a gleam of flickering sunshine might now and then be seen at its solitary play along the path.
This flitting cheerfulness was always at the further extremity of some long vista through the forest.
It runs away and hides itself, because it is afraid of something on your bosom. Now, see!
There it is, playing a good way off.
Stand you here, and let me run and catch it.
I am but a child.
It will not flee from me-for I wear nothing on my bosom yet!" "Nor ever will, my child, I hope," said Hester. "And why not, mother?" asked Pearl, stopping short, just at the beginning of her race.
Will not it come of its own accord when I am a woman grown?" "Run away, child," answered her mother, "and catch the sunshine.
She wanted-what some people want throughout life-a grief that should deeply touch her, and thus humanise and make her capable of sympathy.
But you may sit down, if you will tell me a story meanwhile." "A story, child!" said Hester.
But she fancied me asleep while she was talking of it.
She said that a thousand and a thousand people had met him here, and had written in his book, and have his mark on them.
And that ugly tempered lady, old Mistress Hibbins, was one.
And, mother, the old dame said that this scarlet letter was the Black Man's mark on thee, and that it glows like a red flame when thou meetest him at midnight, here in the dark wood.
And dost thou go to meet him in the nighttime?" "Didst thou ever awake and find thy mother gone?" asked Hester. "Not that I remember," said the child.
If thou fearest to leave me in our cottage, thou mightest take me along with thee.
I would very gladly go!
But, mother, tell me now!
Is there such a Black Man?
And didst thou ever meet him?
And is this his mark?" "Wilt thou let me be at peace, if I once tell thee?" asked her mother. "Yes, if thou tellest me all," answered Pearl. "Once in my life I met the Black Man!" said her mother.
This scarlet letter is his mark!" Thus conversing, they entered sufficiently deep into the wood to secure themselves from the observation of any casual passenger along the forest track.
Here they sat down on a luxuriant heap of moss; which at some epoch of the preceding century, had been a gigantic pine, with its roots and trunk in the darksome shade, and its head aloft in the upper atmosphere.
It was a little dell where they had seated themselves, with a leaf-strewn bank rising gently on either side, and a brook flowing through the midst, over a bed of fallen and drowned leaves.
Oh, foolish and tiresome little brook!" cried Pearl, after listening awhile to its talk, "Why art thou so sad?
Pearl resembled the brook, inasmuch as the current of her life gushed from a well-spring as mysterious, and had flowed through scenes shadowed as heavily with gloom.
But now, Pearl, I hear a footstep along the path, and the noise of one putting aside the branches.
It is no Black Man! Thou canst see him now, through the trees.
It is the minister!" "And so it is!" said the child.
And, mother, he has his hand over his heart!
Is it because, when the minister wrote his name in the book, the Black Man set his mark in that place?
But why does he not wear it outside his bosom, as thou dost, mother?" "Go now, child, and thou shalt tease me as thou wilt another time," cried Hester Prynne.
But do not stray far.
So Pearl, who had enough of shadow in her own little life, chose to break off all acquaintance with this repining brook.
She beheld the minister advancing along the path entirely alone, and leaning on a staff which he had cut by the wayside.
He looked haggard and feeble, and betrayed a nerveless despondency in his air, which had never so remarkably characterised him in his walks about the settlement, nor in any other situation where he deemed himself liable to notice.
Here it was wofully visible, in this intense seclusion of the forest, which of itself would have been a heavy trial to the spirits.
At length she succeeded. "Arthur Dimmesdale!" she said, faintly at first, then louder, but hoarsely-"Arthur Dimmesdale!" "Who speaks?" answered the minister.
Gathering himself quickly up, he stood more erect, like a man taken by surprise in a mood to which he was reluctant to have witnesses.
It may be that his pathway through life was haunted thus by a spectre that had stolen out from among his thoughts. He made a step nigher, and discovered the scarlet letter. "Hester!
Hester Prynne!", said he; "is it thou?
Art thou in life?" "Even so." she answered.
In such life as has been mine these seven years past!
And thou, Arthur Dimmesdale, dost thou yet live?" It was no wonder that they thus questioned one another's actual and bodily existence, and even doubted of their own.
The soul beheld its features in the mirror of the passing moment.
It was with fear, and tremulously, and, as it were, by a slow, reluctant necessity, that Arthur Dimmesdale put forth his hand, chill as death, and touched the chill hand of Hester Prynne.
The grasp, cold as it was, took away what was dreariest in the interview.
When they found voice to speak, it was at first only to utter remarks and inquiries such as any two acquaintances might have made, about the gloomy sky, the threatening storm, and, next, the health of each.
Thus they went onward, not boldly, but step by step, into the themes that were brooding deepest in their hearts.
What else could I look for, being what I am, and leading such a life as mine?
Were I an atheist-a man devoid of conscience-a wretch with coarse and brutal instincts-I might have found peace long ere now.
Nay, I never should have lost it. But, as matters stand with my soul, whatever of good capacity there originally was in me, all of God's gifts that were the choicest have become the ministers of spiritual torment.
Hester, I am most miserable!" "The people reverence thee," said Hester.
And surely thou workest good among them!
Doth this bring thee no comfort?" "More misery, Hester!-Only the more misery!" answered the clergyman with a bitter smile.
As concerns the good which I may appear to do, I have no faith in it.
It must needs be a delusion.
What can a ruined soul like mine effect towards the redemption of other souls?-or a polluted soul towards their purification?
And as for the people's reverence, would that it were turned to scorn and hatred!
I have laughed, in bitterness and agony of heart, at the contrast between what I seem and what I am!
And Satan laughs at it!" "You wrong yourself in this," said Hester gently.
You have deeply and sorely repented.
Your sin is left behind you in the days long past. Your present life is not less holy, in very truth, than it seems in people's eyes.
Is there no reality in the penitence thus sealed and witnessed by good works?
And wherefore should it not bring you peace?" "No, Hester-no!" replied the clergyman.
There is no substance in it! It is cold and dead, and can do nothing for me!
Of penance, I have had enough!
Of penitence, there has been none!
Else, I should long ago have thrown off these garments of mock holiness, and have shown myself to mankind as they will see me at the judgment-seat.
Happy are you, Hester, that wear the scarlet letter openly upon your bosom!
Thou little knowest what a relief it is, after the torment of a seven years' cheat, to look into an eye that recognises me for what I am!
Even thus much of truth would save me! But now, it is all falsehood!-all emptiness!-all death!" Hester Prynne looked into his face, but hesitated to speak.
Yet, uttering his long-restrained emotions so vehemently as he did, his words here offered her the very point of circumstances in which to interpose what she came to say.
She conquered her fears, and spoke: "Such a friend as thou hast even now wished for," said she, "with whom to weep over thy sin, thou hast in me, the partner of it!
What sayest thou?" cried he.
The very contiguity of his enemy, beneath whatever mask the latter might conceal himself, was enough to disturb the magnetic sphere of a being so sensitive as Arthur Dimmesdale.
There had been a period when Hester was less alive to this consideration; or, perhaps, in the misanthropy of her own trouble, she left the minister to bear what she might picture to herself as a more tolerable doom.
But of late, since the night of his vigil, all her sympathies towards him had been both softened and invigorated.
She now read his heart more accurately.
By means of them, the sufferer's conscience had been kept in an irritated state, the tendency of which was, not to cure by wholesome pain, but to disorganize and corrupt his spiritual being.
Hester felt that the sacrifice of the clergyman's good name, and death itself, as she had already told Roger Chillingworth, would have been infinitely preferable to the alternative which she had taken upon herself to choose.
And now, rather than have had this grievous wrong to confess, she would gladly have laid down on the forest leaves, and died there, at Arthur Dimmesdale's feet. "Oh, Arthur!" cried she, "forgive me!
In all things else, I have striven to be true!
Truth was the one virtue which I might have held fast, and did hold fast, through all extremity; save when thy good-thy life-thy fame-were put in question!
Then I consented to a deception. But a lie is never good, even though death threaten on the other side! Dost thou not see what I would say?
Never was there a blacker or a fiercer frown than Hester now encountered.
For the brief space that it lasted, it was a dark transfiguration.
But his character had been so much enfeebled by suffering, that even its lower energies were incapable of more than a temporary struggle.
He sank down on the ground, and buried his face in his hands. "I might have known it," murmured he-"I did know it!
Was not the secret told me, in the natural recoil of my heart at the first sight of him, and as often as I have seen him since?
Why did I not understand?
Oh, Hester Prynne, thou little, little knowest all the horror of this thing!
And the shame!-the indelicacy!-the horrible ugliness of this exposure of a sick and guilty heart to the very eye that would gloat over it!
Woman, woman, thou art accountable for this!-I cannot forgive thee!" "Thou shalt forgive me!" cried Hester, flinging herself on the fallen leaves beside him.
Thou shalt forgive!" With sudden and desperate tenderness she threw her arms around him, and pressed his head against her bosom, little caring though his cheek rested on the scarlet letter.
He would have released himself, but strove in vain to do so.
Hester would not set him free, lest he should look her sternly in the face.
All the world had frowned on her-for seven long years had it frowned upon this lonely woman-and still she bore it all, nor ever once turned away her firm, sad eyes.
Heaven, likewise, had frowned upon her, and she had not died.
But the frown of this pale, weak, sinful, and sorrow-stricken man was what Hester could not bear, and live! "Wilt thou yet forgive me?" she repeated, over and over again.
Wilt thou forgive?" "I do forgive you, Hester," replied the minister at length, with a deep utterance, out of an abyss of sadness, but no anger.
I freely forgive you now.
May God forgive us both.
We are not, Hester, the worst sinners in the world.
There is one worse than even the polluted priest!
That old man's revenge has been blacker than my sin.
He has violated, in cold blood, the sanctity of a human heart.
Thou and I, Hester, never did so!" "Never, never!" whispered she.
What we did had a consecration of its own.
We said so to each other.
Hast thou forgotten it?" "Hush, Hester!" said Arthur Dimmesdale, rising from the ground.
No; I have not forgotten!" They sat down again, side by side, and hand clasped in hand, on the mossy trunk of the fallen tree.
The forest was obscure around them, and creaked with a blast that was passing through it.
The boughs were tossing heavily above their heads; while one solemn old tree groaned dolefully to another, as if telling the sad story of the pair that sat beneath, or constrained to forbode evil to come. And yet they lingered.
How dreary looked the forest-track that led backward to the settlement, where Hester Prynne must take up again the burden of her ignominy and the minister the hollow mockery of his good name!
So they lingered an instant longer.
No golden light had ever been so precious as the gloom of this dark forest.
Here seen only by his eyes, the scarlet letter need not burn into the bosom of the fallen woman!
Here seen only by her eyes, Arthur Dimmesdale, false to God and man, might be, for one moment true! He started at a thought that suddenly occurred to him. "Hester!" cried he, "here is a new horror!
Roger Chillingworth knows your purpose to reveal his true character.
Will he continue, then, to keep our secret?
What will now be the course of his revenge?" "There is a strange secrecy in his nature," replied Hester, thoughtfully; "and it has grown upon him by the hidden practices of his revenge.
I deem it not likely that he will betray the secret.
Thou art strong. Resolve for me!" "Thou must dwell no longer with this man," said Hester, slowly and firmly.
Thy heart must be no longer under his evil eye!" "It were far worse than death!" replied the minister.
But how to avoid it?
What choice remains to me?
Shall I lie down again on these withered leaves, where I cast myself when thou didst tell me what he was?
Must I sink down there, and die at once?" "Alas! what a ruin has befallen thee!" said Hester, with the tears gushing into her eyes.
Wilt thou die for very weakness?
There is no other cause!" "The judgment of God is on me," answered the conscience-stricken priest.
It is too mighty for me to struggle with!" "Heaven would show mercy," rejoined Hester, "hadst thou but the strength to take advantage of it." "Be thou strong for me!" answered he.
Doth the universe lie within the compass of yonder town, which only a little time ago was but a leaf-strewn desert, as lonely as this around us?
Backward to the settlement, thou sayest!
Deeper it goes, and deeper into the wilderness, less plainly to be seen at every step; until some few miles hence the yellow leaves will show no vestige of the white man's tread.
So brief a journey would bring thee from a world where thou hast been most wretched, to one where thou mayest still be happy!
If thou so choose, it will bear thee back again. In our native land, whether in some remote rural village, or in vast London-or, surely, in Germany, in France, in pleasant Italy-thou wouldst be beyond his power and knowledge!
And what hast thou to do with all these iron men, and their opinions?
They have kept thy better part in bondage too long already!" "It cannot be!" answered the minister, listening as if he were called upon to realise a dream.
I am powerless to go.
Wretched and sinful as I am, I have had no other thought than to drag on my earthly existence in the sphere where Providence hath placed me.
Lost as my own soul is, I would still do what I may for other human souls!
But thou shalt leave it all behind thee!
It shall not cumber thy steps, as thou treadest along the forest-path: neither shalt thou freight the ship with it, if thou prefer to cross the sea.
Leave this wreck and ruin here where it hath happened.
Meddle no more with it!
Hast thou exhausted possibility in the failure of this one trial? Not so!
The future is yet full of trial and success.
There is happiness to be enjoyed!
There is good to be done!
Exchange this false life of thine for a true one.
Be, if thy spirit summon thee to such a mission, the teacher and apostle of the red men.
Or, as is more thy nature, be a scholar and a sage among the wisest and the most renowned of the cultivated world.
Do anything, save to lie down and die!
Give up this name of Arthur Dimmesdale, and make thyself another, and a high one, such as thou canst wear without fear or shame.
Why shouldst thou tarry so much as one other day in the torments that have so gnawed into thy life? that have made thee feeble to will and to do? that will leave thee powerless even to repent?
Up, and away!" "Oh, Hester!" cried Arthur Dimmesdale, in whose eyes a fitful light, kindled by her enthusiasm, flashed up and died away, "thou tellest of running a race to a man whose knees are tottering beneath him!
There is not the strength or courage left me to venture into the wide, strange, difficult world alone!" It was the last expression of the despondency of a broken spirit.
He lacked energy to grasp the better fortune that seemed within his reach. He repeated the word-"Alone, Hester!" "Thou shall not go alone!" answered she, in a deep whisper.
She had wandered, without rule or guidance, in a moral wilderness, as vast, as intricate, and shadowy as the untamed forest, amid the gloom of which they were now holding a colloquy that was to decide their fate.
Her intellect and heart had their home, as it were, in desert places, where she roamed as freely as the wild Indian in his woods.
The tendency of her fate and fortunes had been to set her free.
The scarlet letter was her passport into regions where other women dared not tread.
But this had been a sin of passion, not of principle, nor even purpose.
Since that wretched epoch, he had watched with morbid zeal and minuteness, not his acts-for those it was easy to arrange-but each breath of emotion, and his every thought.
At the head of the social system, as the clergymen of that day stood, he was only the more trammelled by its regulations, its principles, and even its prejudices.
Were such a man once more to fall, what plea could be urged in extenuation of his crime?
And be the stern and sad truth spoken, that the breach which guilt has once made into the human soul is never, in this mortal state, repaired.
It may be watched and guarded, so that the enemy shall not force his way again into the citadel, and might even in his subsequent assaults, select some other avenue, in preference to that where he had formerly succeeded.
But there is still the ruined wall, and near it the stealthy tread of the foe that would win over again his unforgotten triumph. The struggle, if there were one, need not be described.
But now-since I am irrevocably doomed-wherefore should I not snatch the solace allowed to the condemned culprit before his execution?
Or, if this be the path to a better life, as Hester would persuade me, I surely give up no fairer prospect by pursuing it!
Neither can I any longer live without her companionship; so powerful is she to sustain-so tender to soothe!
It was the exhilarating effect-upon a prisoner just escaped from the dungeon of his own heart-of breathing the wild, free atmosphere of an unredeemed, unchristianised, lawless region.
His spirit rose, as it were, with a bound, and attained a nearer prospect of the sky, than throughout all the misery which had kept him grovelling on the earth.
Of a deeply religious temperament, there was inevitably a tinge of the devotional in his mood. "Do I feel joy again?" cried he, wondering at himself.
Methought the germ of it was dead in me!
Oh, Hester, thou art my better angel!
I seem to have flung myself-sick, sin-stained, and sorrow-blackened-down upon these forest leaves, and to have risen up all made anew, and with new powers to glorify Him that hath been merciful!
This is already the better life!
Why did we not find it sooner?" "Let us not look back," answered Hester Prynne.
The past is gone! Wherefore should we linger upon it now?
She had not known the weight until she felt the freedom!
There played around her mouth, and beamed out of her eyes, a radiant and tender smile, that seemed gushing from the very heart of womanhood.
A crimson flush was glowing on her cheek, that had been long so pale.
Her sex, her youth, and the whole richness of her beauty, came back from what men call the irrevocable past, and clustered themselves with her maiden hope, and a happiness before unknown, within the magic circle of this hour.
And, as if the gloom of the earth and sky had been but the effluence of these two mortal hearts, it vanished with their sorrow.
The objects that had made a shadow hitherto, embodied the brightness now.
Love, whether newly-born, or aroused from a death-like slumber, must always create a sunshine, filling the heart so full of radiance, that it overflows upon the outward world.
Had the forest still kept its gloom, it would have been bright in Hester's eyes, and bright in Arthur Dimmesdale's! Hester looked at him with a thrill of another joy. "Thou must know Pearl!" said she.
Thou hast seen her-yes, I know it!-but thou wilt see her now with other eyes.
She is a strange child!
But thou wilt love her dearly, as I do, and wilt advise me how to deal with her!" "Dost thou think the child will be glad to know me?" asked the minister, somewhat uneasily.
I have long shrunk from children, because they often show a distrust-a backwardness to be familiar with me.
I have even been afraid of little Pearl!" "Ah, that was sad!" answered the mother.
But she will love thee dearly, and thou her.
She is not far off.
Pearl! Pearl!" "I see the child," observed the minister.
Yonder she is, standing in a streak of sunshine, a good way off, on the other side of the brook.
The ray quivered to and fro, making her figure dim or distinct-now like a real child, now like a child's spirit-as the splendour went and came again.
She heard her mother's voice, and approached slowly through the forest. Pearl had not found the hour pass wearisomely while her mother sat talking with the clergyman.
The great black forest-stern as it showed itself to those who brought the guilt and troubles of the world into its bosom-became the playmate of the lonely infant, as well as it knew how.
Sombre as it was, it put on the kindest of its moods to welcome her.
It offered her the partridge-berries, the growth of the preceding autumn, but ripening only in the spring, and now red as drops of blood upon the withered leaves.
These Pearl gathered, and was pleased with their wild flavour.
The small denizens of the wilderness hardly took pains to move out of her path.
A partridge, indeed, with a brood of ten behind her, ran forward threateningly, but soon repented of her fierceness, and clucked to her young ones not to be afraid.
A pigeon, alone on a low branch, allowed Pearl to come beneath, and uttered a sound as much of greeting as alarm.
It was a last year's nut, and already gnawed by his sharp tooth.
With these she decorated her hair and her young waist, and became a nymph child, or an infant dryad, or whatever else was in closest sympathy with the antique wood.
Dost thou not think her beautiful? And see with what natural skill she has made those simple flowers adorn her!
Had she gathered pearls, and diamonds, and rubies in the wood, they could not have become her better!
She is a splendid child!
But I know whose brow she has!" "Dost thou know, Hester," said Arthur Dimmesdale, with an unquiet smile, "that this dear child, tripping about always at thy side, hath caused me many an alarm?
Methought-oh, Hester, what a thought is that, and how terrible to dread it!-that my own features were partly repeated in her face, and so strikingly that the world might see them!
But she is mostly thine!" "No, no!
Not mostly!" answered the mother, with a tender smile.
A little longer, and thou needest not to be afraid to trace whose child she is.
But how strangely beautiful she looks with those wild flowers in her hair!
In her was visible the tie that united them.
And Pearl was the oneness of their being.
Our Pearl is a fitful and fantastic little elf sometimes.
Especially she is generally intolerant of emotion, when she does not fully comprehend the why and wherefore.
But the child hath strong affections!
She loves me, and will love thee!" "Thou canst not think," said the minister, glancing aside at Hester Prynne, "how my heart dreads this interview, and yearns for it!
But, in truth, as I already told thee, children are not readily won to be familiar with me.
They will not climb my knee, nor prattle in my ear, nor answer to my smile, but stand apart, and eye me strangely.
Even little babes, when I take them in my arms, weep bitterly.
Yet Pearl, twice in her little lifetime, hath been kind to me!
The first time-thou knowest it well!
The last was when thou ledst her with thee to the house of yonder stern old Governor." "And thou didst plead so bravely in her behalf and mine!" answered the mother.
I remember it; and so shall little Pearl.
This image, so nearly identical with the living Pearl, seemed to communicate somewhat of its own shadowy and intangible quality to the child herself.
It was strange, the way in which Pearl stood, looking so steadfastly at them through the dim medium of the forest gloom, herself, meanwhile, all glorified with a ray of sunshine, that was attracted thitherward as by a certain sympathy.
In the brook beneath stood another child-another and the same-with likewise its ray of golden light.
When hast thou been so sluggish before now?
Here is a friend of mine, who must be thy friend also.
Thou wilt have twice as much love henceforward as thy mother alone could give thee!
Leap across the brook and come to us.
Thou canst leap like a young deer!" Pearl, without responding in any manner to these honey-sweet expressions, remained on the other side of the brook.
Now she fixed her bright wild eyes on her mother, now on the minister, and now included them both in the same glance, as if to detect and explain to herself the relation which they bore to one another.
For some unaccountable reason, as Arthur Dimmesdale felt the child's eyes upon himself, his hand-with that gesture so habitual as to have become involuntary-stole over his heart.
At length, assuming a singular air of authority, Pearl stretched out her hand, with the small forefinger extended, and pointing evidently towards her mother's breast.
Leap across the brook, naughty child, and run hither!
Pearl misses something that she has always seen me wear!" "I pray you," answered the minister, "if thou hast any means of pacifying the child, do it forthwith!
Save it were the cankered wrath of an old witch like Mistress Hibbins," added he, attempting to smile, "I know nothing that I would not sooner encounter than this passion in a child.
In Pearl's young beauty, as in the wrinkled witch, it has a preternatural effect.
Oh, I have much to tell thee about her!
But, in very truth, she is right as regards this hateful token.
I must bear its torture yet a little longer-only a few days longer-until we shall have left this region, and look back hither as to a land which we have dreamed of.
The forest cannot hide it!
The mid-ocean shall take it from my hand, and swallow it up for ever!" With these words she advanced to the margin of the brook, took up the scarlet letter, and fastened it again into her bosom.
Hopefully, but a moment ago, as Hester had spoken of drowning it in the deep sea, there was a sense of inevitable doom upon her as she thus received back this deadly symbol from the hand of fate.
She had flung it into infinite space! she had drawn an hour's free breath! and here again was the scarlet misery glittering on the old spot!
So it ever is, whether thus typified or no, that an evil deed invests itself with the character of doom.
Hester next gathered up the heavy tresses of her hair and confined them beneath her cap.
When thou hast shown me a little love, thou mockest me!" "Why doth the minister sit yonder?" asked Pearl. "He waits to welcome thee," replied her mother.
Come thou, and entreat his blessing!
He loves thee, my little Pearl, and loves thy mother, too.
Wilt thou not love him?
Come he longs to greet thee!" "Doth he love us?" said Pearl, looking up with acute intelligence into her mother's face.
Will he go back with us, hand in hand, we three together, into the town?" "Not now, my child," answered Hester.
But in days to come he will walk hand in hand with us.
We will have a home and fireside of our own; and thou shalt sit upon his knee; and he will teach thee many things, and love thee dearly.
Thou wilt love him-wilt thou not?" "And will he always keep his hand over his heart?" inquired Pearl. "Foolish child, what a question is that!" exclaimed her mother.
Come, and ask his blessing!" But, whether influenced by the jealousy that seems instinctive with every petted child towards a dangerous rival, or from whatever caprice of her freakish nature, Pearl would show no favour to the clergyman.
The minister-painfully embarrassed, but hoping that a kiss might prove a talisman to admit him into the child's kindlier regards-bent forward, and impressed one on her brow.
Hereupon, Pearl broke away from her mother, and, running to the brook, stooped over it, and bathed her forehead, until the unwelcome kiss was quite washed off and diffused through a long lapse of the gliding water.
The dell was to be left in solitude among its dark, old trees, which, with their multitudinous tongues, would whisper long of what had passed there, and no mortal be the wiser.
So great a vicissitude in his life could not at once be received as real.
And there was Pearl, too, lightly dancing from the margin of the brook-now that the intrusive third person was gone-and taking her old place by her mother's side.
This vessel had recently arrived from the Spanish Main, and within three days' time would sail for Bristol.
It would probably be on the fourth day from the present.
This is most fortunate!" he had then said to himself.
At least, they shall say of me," thought this exemplary man, "that I leave no public duty unperformed or ill-performed!
Sad, indeed, that an introspection so profound and acute as this poor minister's should be so miserably deceived!
The pathway among the woods seemed wilder, more uncouth with its rude natural obstacles, and less trodden by the foot of man, than he remembered it on his outward journey.
But he leaped across the plashy places, thrust himself through the clinging underbrush, climbed the ascent, plunged into the hollow, and overcame, in short, all the difficulties of the track, with an unweariable activity that astonished him.
He could not but recall how feebly, and with what frequent pauses for breath he had toiled over the same ground, only two days before.
As he drew near the town, he took an impression of change from the series of familiar objects that presented themselves.
It seemed not yesterday, not one, not two, but many days, or even years ago, since he had quitted them.
There, indeed, was each former trace of the street, as he remembered it, and all the peculiarities of the houses, with the due multitude of gable-peaks, and a weather-cock at every point where his memory suggested one.
Not the less, however, came this importunately obtrusive sense of change.
The same was true as regarded the acquaintances whom he met, and all the well-known shapes of human life, about the little town.
A similar impression struck him most remarkably as he passed under the walls of his own church.
The minister's own will, and Hester's will, and the fate that grew between them, had wrought this transformation.
It was the same town as heretofore, but the same minister returned not from the forest.
He might have said to the friends who greeted him-"I am not the man for whom you take me!
I left him yonder in the forest, withdrawn into a secret dell, by a mossy tree trunk, and near a melancholy brook!
In truth, nothing short of a total change of dynasty and moral code, in that interior kingdom, was adequate to account for the impulses now communicated to the unfortunate and startled minister.
For instance, he met one of his own deacons.
Never was there a more beautiful example of how the majesty of age and wisdom may comport with the obeisance and respect enjoined upon it, as from a lower social rank, and inferior order of endowment, towards a higher.
He absolutely trembled and turned pale as ashes, lest his tongue should wag itself in utterance of these horrible matters, and plead his own consent for so doing, without his having fairly given it.
And, even with this terror in his heart, he could hardly avoid laughing, to imagine how the sanctified old patriarchal deacon would have been petrified by his minister's impiety. Again, another incident of the same nature.
The instilment thereof into her mind would probably have caused this aged sister to drop down dead, at once, as by the effect of an intensely poisonous infusion.
What he really did whisper, the minister could never afterwards recollect.
There was, perhaps, a fortunate disorder in his utterance, which failed to impart any distinct idea to the good widow's comprehension, or which Providence interpreted after a method of its own.
Assuredly, as the minister looked back, he beheld an expression of divine gratitude and ecstasy that seemed like the shine of the celestial city on her face, so wrinkled and ashy pale. Again, a third instance.
After parting from the old church member, he met the youngest sister of them all.
She was fair and pure as a lily that had bloomed in Paradise.
The minister knew well that he was himself enshrined within the stainless sanctity of her heart, which hung its snowy curtains about his image, imparting to religion the warmth of love, and to love a religious purity.
Satan, that afternoon, had surely led the poor young girl away from her mother's side, and thrown her into the pathway of this sorely tempted, or-shall we not rather say?-this lost and desperate man.
As she drew nigh, the arch-fiend whispered him to condense into small compass, and drop into her tender bosom a germ of evil that would be sure to blossom darkly soon, and bear black fruit betimes.
So-with a mightier struggle than he had yet sustained-he held his Geneva cloak before his face, and hurried onward, making no sign of recognition, and leaving the young sister to digest his rudeness as she might.
Did I make a contract with him in the forest, and sign it with my blood?
The next time I pray you to allow me only a fair warning, and I shall be proud to bear you company.
I went not into the forest to seek a potentate, neither do I, at any future time, design a visit thither, with a view to gaining the favour of such personage.
Well, well! we must needs talk thus in the daytime!
You carry it off like an old hand!
He had made a bargain very like it!
Tempted by a dream of happiness, he had yielded himself with deliberate choice, as he had never done before, to what he knew was deadly sin.
And the infectious poison of that sin had been thus rapidly diffused throughout his moral system.
It had stupefied all blessed impulses, and awakened into vivid life the whole brotherhood of bad ones.
Here he had studied and written; here gone through fast and vigil, and come forth half alive; here striven to pray; here borne a hundred thousand agonies!
He knew that it was himself, the thin and white-cheeked minister, who had done and suffered these things, and written thus far into the Election Sermon!
But he seemed to stand apart, and eye this former self with scornful pitying, but half-envious curiosity.
It was old Roger Chillingworth that entered.
The minister stood white and speechless, with one hand on the Hebrew Scriptures, and the other spread upon his breast. "Welcome home, reverend sir," said the physician.
And how found you that godly man, the Apostle Eliot?
But methinks, dear sir, you look pale, as if the travel through the wilderness had been too sore for you.
Will not my aid be requisite to put you in heart and strength to preach your Election Sermon?" "Nay, I think not so," rejoined the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale.
My journey, and the sight of the holy Apostle yonder, and the free air which I have breathed have done me good, after so long confinement in my study.
But, in spite of this outward show, the latter was almost convinced of the old man's knowledge, or, at least, his confident suspicion, with respect to his own interview with Hester Prynne.
The physician knew then that in the minister's regard he was no longer a trusted friend, but his bitterest enemy.
So much being known, it would appear natural that a part of it should be expressed.
It is singular, however, how long a time often passes before words embody things; and with what security two persons, who choose to avoid a certain subject, may approach its very verge, and retire without disturbing it.
Thus the minister felt no apprehension that Roger Chillingworth would touch, in express words, upon the real position which they sustained towards one another.
But touching your medicine, kind sir, in my present frame of body I need it not." "I joy to hear it," answered the physician.
I thank you, and can but requite your good deeds with my prayers." "A good man's prayers are golden recompense!" rejoined old Roger Chillingworth, as he took his leave.
Her face, so long familiar to the townspeople, showed the marble quietude which they were accustomed to behold there.
Look your last on the scarlet letter and its wearer!"-the people's victim and lifelong bond-slave, as they fancied her, might say to them.
Yet a little while, and she will be beyond your reach!
A few hours longer and the deep, mysterious ocean will quench and hide for ever the symbol which ye have caused to burn on her bosom!
Might there not be an irresistible desire to quaff a last, long, breathless draught of the cup of wormwood and aloes, with which nearly all her years of womanhood had been perpetually flavoured.
Wherefore have all the people left their work today?
Is it a play-day for the whole world?
See, there is the blacksmith!
He has washed his sooty face, and put on his Sabbath-day clothes, and looks as if he would gladly be merry, if any kind body would only teach him how!
And there is Master Brackett, the old jailer, nodding and smiling at me.
Why does he do so, mother?" "He remembers thee a little babe, my child," answered Hester. "He should not nod and smile at me, for all that-the black, grim, ugly-eyed old man!" said Pearl.
He may nod at thee, if he will; for thou art clad in gray, and wearest the scarlet letter.
But see, mother, how many faces of strange people, and Indians among them, and sailors! What have they all come to do, here in the market-place?" "They wait to see the procession pass," said Hester.
For the Governor and the magistrates are to go by, and the ministers, and all the great people and good people, with the music and the soldiers marching before them." "And will the minister be there?" asked Pearl.
In the dark nighttime he calls us to him, and holds thy hand and mine, as when we stood with him on the scaffold yonder!
And in the deep forest, where only the old trees can hear, and the strip of sky see it, he talks with thee, sitting on a heap of moss!
And he kisses my forehead, too, so that the little brook would hardly wash it off!
But, here, in the sunny day, and among all the people, he knows us not; nor must we know him!
The persons now in the market-place of Boston had not been born to an inheritance of Puritanic gloom.
Had they followed their hereditary taste, the New England settlers would have illustrated all events of public importance by bonfires, banquets, pageantries, and processions.
There was some shadow of an attempt of this kind in the mode of celebrating the day on which the political year of the colony commenced.
All such professors of the several branches of jocularity would have been sternly repressed, not only by the rigid discipline of law, but by the general sentiment which give law its vitality.
Not the less, however, the great, honest face of the people smiled-grimly, perhaps, but widely too.
Their immediate posterity, the generation next to the early emigrants, wore the blackest shade of Puritanism, and so darkened the national visage with it, that all the subsequent years have not sufficed to clear it up.
From beneath their broad-brimmed hats of palm-leaf, gleamed eyes which, even in good-nature and merriment, had a kind of animal ferocity.
It remarkably characterised the incomplete morality of the age, rigid as we call it, that a licence was allowed the seafaring class, not merely for their freaks on shore, but for far more desperate deeds on their proper element.
The sailor of that day would go near to be arraigned as a pirate in our own.
As was usually the case wherever Hester stood, a small vacant area-a sort of magic circle-had formed itself about her, into which, though the people were elbowing one another at a little distance, none ventured or felt disposed to intrude.
It was a forcible type of the moral solitude in which the scarlet letter enveloped its fated wearer; partly by her own reserve, and partly by the instinctive, though no longer so unkindly, withdrawal of her fellow-creatures.
No fear of scurvy or ship fever this voyage.
Have you another passenger?" "Why, know you not," cried the shipmaster, "that this physician here-Chillingworth he calls himself-is minded to try my cabin-fare with you?
They have long dwelt together." Nothing further passed between the mariner and Hester Prynne.
This body of soldiery-which still sustains a corporate existence, and marches down from past ages with an ancient and honourable fame-was composed of no mercenary materials.
The high estimation then placed upon the military character might be seen in the lofty port of each individual member of the company.
Some of them, indeed, by their services in the Low Countries and on other fields of European warfare, had fairly won their title to assume the name and pomp of soldiership.
Even in outward demeanour they showed a stamp of majesty that made the warrior's haughty stride look vulgar, if not absurd.
It was an age when what we call talent had far less consideration than now, but the massive materials which produce stability and dignity of character a great deal more.
The people possessed by hereditary right the quality of reverence, which, in their descendants, if it survive at all, exists in smaller proportion, and with a vastly diminished force in the selection and estimate of public men.
The change may be for good or ill, and is partly, perhaps, for both.
These primitive statesmen, therefore-Bradstreet, Endicott, Dudley, Bellingham, and their compeers-who were elevated to power by the early choice of the people, seem to have been not often brilliant, but distinguished by a ponderous sobriety, rather than activity of intellect.
They had fortitude and self-reliance, and in time of difficulty or peril stood up for the welfare of the state like a line of cliffs against a tempestuous tide.
The traits of character here indicated were well represented in the square cast of countenance and large physical development of the new colonial magistrates.
There was no feebleness of step as at other times; his frame was not bent, nor did his hand rest ominously upon his heart.
Yet, if the clergyman were rightly viewed, his strength seemed not of the body.
It might be spiritual and imparted to him by angelical ministrations.
It might be the exhilaration of that potent cordial which is distilled only in the furnace-glow of earnest and long-continued thought.
Or perchance his sensitive temperament was invigorated by the loud and piercing music that swelled heavenward, and uplifted him on its ascending wave.
Nevertheless, so abstracted was his look, it might be questioned whether Mr. Dimmesdale even heard the music.
There was his body, moving onward, and with an unaccustomed force.
But where was his mind?
One glance of recognition she had imagined must needs pass between them.
She thought of the dim forest, with its little dell of solitude, and love, and anguish, and the mossy tree-trunk, where, sitting hand-in-hand, they had mingled their sad and passionate talk with the melancholy murmur of the brook.
How deeply had they known each other then!
And was this the man?
She hardly knew him now!
Her spirit sank with the idea that all must have been a delusion, and that, vividly as she had dreamed it, there could be no real bond betwixt the clergyman and herself.
While the procession passed, the child was uneasy, fluttering up and down, like a bird on the point of taking flight.
When the whole had gone by, she looked up into Hester's face- "Mother," said she, "was that the same minister that kissed me by the brook?" "Hold thy peace, dear little Pearl!" whispered her mother.
We must not always talk in the market-place of what happens to us in the forest." "I could not be sure that it was he-so strange he looked," continued the child.
Else I would have run to him, and bid him kiss me now, before all the people, even as he did yonder among the dark old trees. What would the minister have said, mother?
It was Mistress Hibbins, who, arrayed in great magnificence, with a triple ruff, a broidered stomacher, a gown of rich velvet, and a gold-headed cane, had come forth to see the procession.
That saint on earth, as the people uphold him to be, and as-I must needs say-he really looks!
Who, now, that saw him pass in the procession, would think how little while it is since he went forth out of his study-chewing a Hebrew text of Scripture in his mouth, I warrant-to take an airing in the forest!
Aha! we know what that means, Hester Prynne!
But truly, forsooth, I find it hard to believe him the same man.
Many a church member saw I, walking behind the music, that has danced in the same measure with me, when Somebody was fiddler, and, it might be, an Indian powwow or a Lapland wizard changing hands with us!
That is but a trifle, when a woman knows the world.
Yea, though no leaf of the wild garlands which they wore while they danced be left in their hair! I know thee, Hester, for I behold the token.
We may all see it in the sunshine! and it glows like a red flame in the dark.
Thou wearest it openly, so there need be no question about that.
Let me tell thee in thine ear!
What is that the minister seeks to hide, with his hand always over his heart?
Ha, Hester Prynne?" "What is it, good Mistress Hibbins?" eagerly asked little Pearl.
Hast thou seen it?" "No matter, darling!" responded Mistress Hibbins, making Pearl a profound reverence.
Thou thyself wilt see it, one time or another. They say, child, thou art of the lineage of the Prince of Air!
Wilt thou ride with me some fine night to see thy father?
An irresistible feeling kept Hester near the spot.
As the sacred edifice was too much thronged to admit another auditor, she took up her position close beside the scaffold of the pillory.
Like all other music, it breathed passion and pathos, and emotions high or tender, in a tongue native to the human heart, wherever educated.
Muffled as the sound was by its passage through the church walls, Hester Prynne listened with such intenseness, and sympathized so intimately, that the sermon had throughout a meaning for her, entirely apart from its indistinguishable words.
These, perhaps, if more distinctly heard, might have been only a grosser medium, and have clogged the spiritual sense.
And yet, majestic as the voice sometimes became, there was for ever in it an essential character of plaintiveness.
A loud or low expression of anguish-the whisper, or the shriek, as it might be conceived, of suffering humanity, that touched a sensibility in every bosom!
At times this deep strain of pathos was all that could be heard, and scarcely heard sighing amid a desolate silence.
The complaint of a human heart, sorrow-laden, perchance guilty, telling its secret, whether of guilt or sorrow, to the great heart of mankind; beseeching its sympathy or forgiveness,-at every moment,-in each accent,-and never in vain!
It was this profound and continual undertone that gave the clergyman his most appropriate power. During all this time, Hester stood, statue-like, at the foot of the scaffold.
If the minister's voice had not kept her there, there would, nevertheless, have been an inevitable magnetism in that spot, whence she dated the first hour of her life of ignominy.
She had an undulating, but oftentimes a sharp and irregular movement.
It indicated the restless vivacity of her spirit, which today was doubly indefatigable in its tip-toe dance, because it was played upon and vibrated with her mother's disquietude.
The Puritans looked on, and, if they smiled, were none the less inclined to pronounce the child a demon offspring, from the indescribable charm of beauty and eccentricity that shone through her little figure, and sparkled with its activity.
She ran and looked the wild Indian in the face, and he grew conscious of a nature wilder than his own.
Finding it as impossible to touch her as to catch a humming-bird in the air, he took from his hat the gold chain that was twisted about it, and threw it to the child.
So let thy mother take no thought, save for herself and thee.
Wilt thou tell her this, thou witch-baby?" "Mistress Hibbins says my father is the Prince of the Air!" cried Pearl, with a naughty smile.
These, after exhausting other modes of amusement, now thronged about Hester Prynne with rude and boorish intrusiveness.
Unscrupulous as it was, however, it could not bring them nearer than a circuit of several yards.
At that distance they accordingly stood, fixed there by the centrifugal force of the repugnance which the mystic symbol inspired.
The whole gang of sailors, likewise, observing the press of spectators, and learning the purport of the scarlet letter, came and thrust their sunburnt and desperado-looking faces into the ring.
Hester saw and recognized the selfsame faces of that group of matrons, who had awaited her forthcoming from the prison-door seven years ago; all save one, the youngest and only compassionate among them, whose burial-robe she had since made.
The sainted minister in the church!
The woman of the scarlet letter in the market-place!
There was a momentary silence, profound as what should follow the utterance of oracles.
Then ensued a murmur and half-hushed tumult, as if the auditors, released from the high spell that had transported them into the region of another's mind, were returning into themselves, with all their awe and wonder still heavy on them.
In a moment more the crowd began to gush forth from the doors of the church.
The street and the market-place absolutely babbled, from side to side, with applauses of the minister.
His subject, it appeared, had been the relation between the Deity and the communities of mankind, with a special reference to the New England which they were here planting in the wilderness.
But, throughout it all, and through the whole discourse, there had been a certain deep, sad undertone of pathos, which could not be interpreted otherwise than as the natural regret of one soon to pass away.
Yes; their minister whom they so loved-and who so loved them all, that he could not depart heavenward without a sigh-had the foreboding of untimely death upon him, and would soon leave them in their tears.
When they were fairly in the market-place, their presence was greeted by a shout.
Within the church, it had hardly been kept down; beneath the sky it pealed upward to the zenith.
Never, from the soil of New England had gone up such a shout!
Never, on New England soil had stood the man so honoured by his mortal brethren as the preacher! How fared it with him, then?
Were there not the brilliant particles of a halo in the air about his head?
The shout died into a murmur, as one portion of the crowd after another obtained a glimpse of him.
How feeble and pale he looked, amid all his triumph!
The energy-or say, rather, the inspiration which had held him up, until he should have delivered the sacred message that had brought its own strength along with it from heaven-was withdrawn, now that it had so faithfully performed its office.
The minister tremulously, but decidedly, repelled the old man's arm.
He still walked onward, if that movement could be so described, which rather resembled the wavering effort of an infant, with its mother's arms in view, outstretched to tempt him forward.
And now, almost imperceptible as were the latter steps of his progress, he had come opposite the well-remembered and weather-darkened scaffold, where, long since, with all that dreary lapse of time between, Hester Prynne had encountered the world's ignominious stare.
There stood Hester, holding little Pearl by the hand!
And there was the scarlet letter on her breast!
The minister here made a pause; although the music still played the stately and rejoicing march to which the procession moved.
But there was something in the latter's expression that warned back the magistrate, although a man not readily obeying the vague intimations that pass from one spirit to another.
The crowd, meanwhile, looked on with awe and wonder.
Come, my little Pearl!" It was a ghastly look with which he regarded them; but there was something at once tender and strangely triumphant in it.
The child, with the bird-like motion, which was one of her characteristics, flew to him, and clasped her arms about his knees.
Hester Prynne-slowly, as if impelled by inevitable fate, and against her strongest will-likewise drew near, but paused before she reached him.
At this instant old Roger Chillingworth thrust himself through the crowd-or, perhaps, so dark, disturbed, and evil was his look, he rose up out of some nether region-to snatch back his victim from what he sought to do!
Be that as it might, the old man rushed forward, and caught the minister by the arm. "Madman, hold! what is your purpose?" whispered he.
Do not blacken your fame, and perish in dishonour!
I can yet save you!
Would you bring infamy on your sacred profession?" "Ha, tempter!
Methinks thou art too late!" answered the minister, encountering his eye, fearfully, but firmly.
Thy power is not what it was!
Thy strength, Hester; but let it be guided by the will which God hath granted me!
This wretched and wronged old man is opposing it with all his might!-with all his own might, and the fiend's!
Support me up yonder scaffold." The crowd was in a tumult.
They beheld the minister, leaning on Hester's shoulder, and supported by her arm around him, approach the scaffold, and ascend its steps; while still the little hand of the sin-born child was clasped in his.
I know not!" she hurriedly replied.
Yea; so we may both die, and little Pearl die with us!" "For thee and Pearl, be it as God shall order," said the minister; "and God is merciful!
Let me now do the will which He hath made plain before my sight.
For, Hester, I am a dying man.
Lo, the scarlet letter which Hester wears!
Ye have all shuddered at it!
Wherever her walk hath been-wherever, so miserably burdened, she may have hoped to find repose-it hath cast a lurid gleam of awe and horrible repugnance round about her.
But there stood one in the midst of you, at whose brand of sin and infamy ye have not shuddered!" It seemed, at this point, as if the minister must leave the remainder of his secret undisclosed.
But he fought back the bodily weakness-and, still more, the faintness of heart-that was striving for the mastery with him.
He threw off all assistance, and stepped passionately forward a pace before the woman and the children. "It was on him!" he continued, with a kind of fierceness; so determined was he to speak out the whole.
Now, at the death-hour, he stands up before you! He bids you look again at Hester's scarlet letter!
Stand any here that question God's judgment on a sinner!
Behold, a dreadful witness of it!" With a convulsive motion, he tore away the ministerial band from before his breast.
But it were irreverent to describe that revelation.
For an instant, the gaze of the horror-stricken multitude was concentrated on the ghastly miracle; while the minister stood, with a flush of triumph in his face, as one who, in the crisis of acutest pain, had won a victory.
Then, down he sank upon the scaffold!
Hester partly raised him, and supported his head against her bosom.
Old Roger Chillingworth knelt down beside him, with a blank, dull countenance, out of which the life seemed to have departed. "Thou hast escaped me!" he repeated more than once.
Thou hast escaped me!" "May God forgive thee!" said the minister.
Thou wouldst not, yonder, in the forest!
But now thou wilt?" Pearl kissed his lips.
Towards her mother, too, Pearl's errand as a messenger of anguish was fulfilled. "Hester," said the clergyman, "farewell!" "Shall we not meet again?" whispered she, bending her face down close to his.
Shall we not spend our immortal life together?
Surely, surely, we have ransomed one another, with all this woe!
Thou lookest far into eternity, with those bright dying eyes!
Then tell me what thou seest!" "Hush, Hester-hush!" said he, with tremulous solemnity.
The law we broke!-the sin here awfully revealed!-let these alone be in thy thoughts!
It may be, that, when we forgot our God-when we violated our reverence each for the other's soul-it was thenceforth vain to hope that we could meet hereafter, in an everlasting and pure reunion.
God knows; and He is merciful!
He hath proved his mercy, most of all, in my afflictions.
By giving me this burning torture to bear upon my breast!
By sending yonder dark and terrible old man, to keep the torture always at red-heat!
By bringing me hither, to die this death of triumphant ignominy before the people!
Had either of these agonies been wanting, I had been lost for ever!
Praised be His name! His will be done!
Farewell!" That final word came forth with the minister's expiring breath.
As regarded its origin there were various explanations, all of which must necessarily have been conjectural.
Some affirmed that the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale, on the very day when Hester Prynne first wore her ignominious badge, had begun a course of penance-which he afterwards, in so many futile methods, followed out-by inflicting a hideous torture on himself.
Others contended that the stigma had not been produced until a long time subsequent, when old Roger Chillingworth, being a potent necromancer, had caused it to appear, through the agency of magic and poisonous drugs.
The reader may choose among these theories.
Neither, by their report, had his dying words acknowledged, nor even remotely implied, any-the slightest-connexion on his part, with the guilt for which Hester Prynne had so long worn the scarlet letter.
Among many morals which press upon us from the poor minister's miserable experience, we put only this into a sentence:-"Be true!
But, to all these shadowy beings, so long our near acquaintances-as well Roger Chillingworth as his companions we would fain be merciful.
It is a curious subject of observation and inquiry, whether hatred and love be not the same thing at bottom.
Philosophically considered, therefore, the two passions seem essentially the same, except that one happens to be seen in a celestial radiance, and the other in a dusky and lurid glow.
But, in no long time after the physician's death, the wearer of the scarlet letter disappeared, and Pearl along with her.
For many years, though a vague report would now and then find its way across the sea-like a shapeless piece of driftwood tossed ashore with the initials of a name upon it-yet no tidings of them unquestionably authentic were received.
The story of the scarlet letter grew into a legend.
Its spell, however, was still potent, and kept the scaffold awful where the poor minister had died, and likewise the cottage by the sea-shore where Hester Prynne had dwelt.
Near this latter spot, one afternoon some children were at play, when they beheld a tall woman in a gray robe approach the cottage-door.
But her hesitation was only for an instant, though long enough to display a scarlet letter on her breast. And Hester Prynne had returned, and taken up her long-forsaken shame! But where was little Pearl?
If still alive she must now have been in the flush and bloom of early womanhood.
Letters came, with armorial seals upon them, though of bearings unknown to English heraldry.
In the cottage there were articles of comfort and luxury such as Hester never cared to use, but which only wealth could have purchased and affection have imagined for her.
There were trifles too, little ornaments, beautiful tokens of a continual remembrance, that must have been wrought by delicate fingers at the impulse of a fond heart.
Here had been her sin; here, her sorrow; and here was yet to be her penitence.
She had returned, therefore, and resumed-of her own free will, for not the sternest magistrate of that iron period would have imposed it-resumed the symbol of which we have related so dark a tale.
Never afterwards did it quit her bosom.
And, as Hester Prynne had no selfish ends, nor lived in any measure for her own profit and enjoyment, people brought all their sorrows and perplexities, and besought her counsel, as one who had herself gone through a mighty trouble.
Hester comforted and counselled them, as best she might.
And, after many, many years, a new grave was delved, near an old and sunken one, in that burial-ground beside which King's Chapel has since been built.
It was near that old and sunken grave, yet with a space between, as if the dust of the two sleepers had no right to mingle.
Yet one tomb-stone served for both.
All around, there were monuments carved with armorial bearings; and on this simple slab of slate-as the curious investigator may still discern, and perplex himself with the purport-there appeared the semblance of an engraved escutcheon.
Part A Zen and the Art of the Internet Copyright (c) 1992 Brendan P.
Kehoe This is revision 1.0 of February 2, 1992. Copyright (c) 1992 Brendan P.
Aimed at the novice user, it attempts to remain operating system "neutral"---little information herein is specific to Unix, VMS, or any other environment.
Also, it forms a foundation from which people can explore the vast expanse of the Internet.
Hours can slip by, people can come and go, and you'll be locked into Cyberspace.
The chapter on Usenet is, in large part, made up of what's posted monthly to news.announce.newusers, with some editing and rewriting.
Also, the main section on archie was derived from whatis.archie by Peter Deutsch of the McGill University Computing Centre.
It's available via anonymous FTP from archie.mcgill.ca.
Much of what's in the telnet section came from an impressive introductory document put together by SuraNet.
I'd like to thank the folks who gave this a read-through and returned some excellent comments, suggestions, and criticisms, and those who provided much-needed information on the fly.
Ward <cew@venera.isi.edu> Craig Ward, USC/Information Sciences Institute (ISI) Glee Willis <willis@unssun.nevada.edu> Glee Willis, University of Nevada, Reno Charles Yamasaki <chip@oshcomm.osha.gov> Chip Yamasaki, OSHA Network Basics We are truly in an information society.
Now more than ever, moving vast amounts of information quickly across great distances is one of our most pressing needs.
Likewise, researchers from all corners of the earth are finding that their work thrives in a networked environment.
Immediate access to the work of colleagues and a "virtual" library of millions of volumes and thousands of papers affords them the ability to encorporate a body of knowledge heretofore unthinkable.
No airline (or tardis, for that matter) could ever match that travel itinerary. The largest problem people face when first using a network is grasping all that's available.
Even seasoned users find themselves surprised when they discover a new service or feature that they'd never known even existed.
Once acquainted with the terminology and sufficiently comfortable with making occasional mistakes, the learning process will drastically speed up. Domains Getting where you want to go can often be one of the more difficult aspects of using networks.
The variety of ways that places are named will probably leave a blank stare on your face at first.
Don't fret; there is a method to this apparent madness. If someone were to ask for a home address, they would probably expect a street, apartment, city, state, and zip code.
That's all the information the post office needs to deliver mail in a reasonably speedy fashion.
Likewise, computer addresses have a structure to them.
One such gateway is near.net.} org This is a domain reserved for private organizations, who don't comfortably fit in the other classes of domains.
One example is the Electronic Frontier Foundation named eff.org. Each country also has its own top-level domain.
For example, the us domain includes each of the fifty states.
Other countries represented with domains include: au Australia ca Canada fr France uk The United Kingdom.
These also have sub-domains of things like ac.uk for academic sites and co.uk for commercial ones. FQDN (Fully Qualified Domain Name) The proper terminology for a site's domain name (somewhere.domain above) is its Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN).
It is usually selected to give a clear indication of the site's organization or sponsoring agent.
For example, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's FQDN is mit.edu; similarly, Apple Computer's domain name is apple.com.
While such obvious names are usually the norm, there are the occasional exceptions that are ambiguous enough to mislead---like vt.edu, which on first impulse one might surmise is an educational institution of some sort in Vermont; not so.
It's actually the domain name for Virginia Tech.
It's actually a 32-bit number, but is most commonly represented as four numbers joined by periods (.), like 147.31.254.130.
This is sometimes also called a dotted quad; there are literally thousands of different possible dotted quads.
The ARPAnet (the mother to today's Internet) originally only had the capacity to have up to 256 systems on it because of the way each system was addressed.
The first two or three pieces (e.g. 192.55.239) represent the network that a system is on, called its subnet.
For example, all of the computers for Wesleyan University are in the subnet 129.133.
They can have numbers like 129.133.10.10, 129.133.230.19, up to 65 thousand possible combinations (possible computers). IP addresses and domain names aren't assigned arbitrarily---that would lead to unbelievable confusion.
An application must be filed with the Network Information Center (NIC), either electronically (to hostmaster@nic.ddn.mil) or via regular mail. Resolving Names and Numbers Ok, computers can be referred to by either their FQDN or their Internet address.
How can one user be expected to remember them all? They aren't.
The Internet is designed so that one can use either method.
Since humans find it much more natural to deal with words than numbers in most cases, the FQDN for each host is mapped to its Internet number.
Each domain is served by a computer within that domain, which provides all of the necessary information to go from a domain name to an IP address, and vice-versa.
For example, when someone refers to foosun.bar.com, the resolver knows that it should ask the system foovax.bar.com about systems in bar.com.
It asks what Internet address foosun.bar.com has; if the name foosun.bar.com really exists, foovax will send back its number.
All of this "magic" happens behind the scenes. Rarely will a user have to remember the Internet number of a site (although often you'll catch yourself remembering an apparently obscure number, simply because you've accessed the system frequently).
However, you will remember a substantial number of FQDNs.
There is no one network known as The Internet; rather, regional nets like SuraNet, PrepNet, NearNet, et al., are all inter-connected (nay, "inter-networked") together into one great living thing, communicating at amazing speeds with the TCP/IP protocol.
Historically most UUCP was done with Unix equipment, although the software's since been implemented on other platforms (e.g. VMS).
For example, the system oregano polls the system basil once every two hours.
Also, a number of mail gateways are in place to reach users on other networks. The Physical Connection The actual connections between the various networks take a variety of forms.
The most prevalent for Internet links are 56k leased lines (dedicated telephone lines carrying 56kilobit-per-second connections) and T1 links (special phone lines with 1Mbps connections).
Also available are SLIP connections, which carry Internet traffic (packets) over high-speed modems. UUCP links are made with modems (for the most part), that run from 1200 baud all the way up to as high as 38.4Kbps.
As was mentioned in The Networks, the connections are of the store-and-forward variety.
Also in use are Internet-based UUCP links (as if things weren't already confusing enough!).
The systems do their UUCP traffic over TCP/IP connections, which give the UUCP-based network some blindingly fast "hops," resulting in better connectivity for the network as a whole.
UUCP connections first became popular in the 1970's, and have remained in wide-spread use ever since.
Only with UUCP can Joe Smith correspond with someone across the country or around the world, for the price of a local telephone call. BITNET links mostly take the form of 9600bps modems connected from site to site.
People have always wanted to correspond with each other in the fastest way possible, short of normal conversation.
Electronic mail (or email) is the most prevalent application of this in computer networking.
It allows people to write back and forth without having to spend much time worrying about how the message actually gets delivered.
Your email address provides all of the information required to get a message to you from anywhere in the world.
The latter of the two, UUCP "bang" paths, is more restrictive, yet more clearly dictates how the mail will travel. To reach Jim Morrison on the system south.america.org, one would address the mail as jm@south.america.org.
But if Jim's account was on a UUCP site named brazil, then his address would be brazil!jm.
If it's possible (and one exists), try to use the Internet form of an address; bang paths can fail if an intermediate site in the path happens to be down.
There is a growing trend for UUCP sites to register Internet domain names, to help alleviate the problem of path failures. Another symbol that enters the fray is %---it acts as an extra "routing" method.
This address says that the local system should first send the mail to south.america.org.
There the address debbie%dream will turn into debbie@dream, which will hopefully be a valid address.
Please don't oversleep this time. The first line, with From and the two lines for Received: are usually not very interesting.
They give the "real" address that the mail is coming from (as opposed to the address you should reply to, which may look much different), and what places the mail went through to get to you.
Over the Internet, there is always at least one Received: header and usually no more than four or five.
When a message is sent using UUCP, one Received: header is added for each system that the mail passes through.
This can often result in more than a dozen Received: headers.
While they help with dissecting problems in mail delivery, odds are the average user will never want to see them.
Most mail programs will filter out this kind of "cruft" in a header. The Date: header contains the date and time the message was sent.
Likewise, the "good" address (as opposed to "real" address) is laid out in the From: header.
Every Message-ID: is guaranteed to be unique. To: lists the email address (or addresses) of the recipients of the message.
There may be a Cc: header, listing additional addresses.
User unknown As you can see, a carbon copy of the message (the Cc: header entry) was sent to the postmaster of Widener's CS department.
The Postmaster is responsible for maintaining a reliable mail system on his system.
Usually postmasters at sites will attempt to aid you in getting your mail where it's supposed to go.
If a typing error was made, then try re-sending the message.
One modern way to aid in this exchange of information is by using a mailing list---usually an email address that redistributes all mail sent to it back out to a list of addresses.
For example, the Sun Managers mailing list (of interest to people that administer computers manufactured by Sun) has the address sun-managers@eecs.nwu.edu.
This does nothing more than waste traffic and bother everyone else receiving the messages.
It's updated fairly regularly, but is large (presently around 700K), so only get it every once in a while.
A full list of the available BITNET lists can be obtained by writing to LISTSERV@BITNIC.BITNET with a body containing the command list global However, be sparing in your use of this---see if it's already on your system somewhere.
The reply is quite large. The most fundamental command is subscribe.
It will tell the listserv to add the sender to a specific list.
It will remove a given address from a BITNET list.
On many systems, it's also the name of the program that implements the protocol.
It essentially will let anyone in the world have access to a certain area of disk space in a non-threatening way.
With this, people can make files publicly available with little hassle.
Some systems have dedicated entire disks or even entire computers to maintaining extensive archives of source code and information.
A site that has a 9600bps SLIP connection will not get the same throughput as a system with a 56k leased line (The Physical Connection, for more on what kinds of connections can exist in a network).
Also, the traffic of all other users on that link will affect performance.
People using the network and the systems on it are doing so for a purpose, whether it be research, development, whatever.
To help be considerate of this, it's highly recommended that FTP sessions be held only after normal business hours for that site, preferably late at night.
For more specific information, read the manual for your specific FTP program.
Using the hostname is usually preferred. However, some sites aren't able to resolve hostnames properly, and have no alternative.
We'll assume you're able to use hostnames for simplicity's sake.
On your system, type: ftp ftp.uu.net (the actual syntax will vary depending on the type of system the connection's being made from).
This is to protect a user's security when he or she is using a real account to FTP files between machines.
Once you reach the ftp> prompt, you know you're logged in and ready to go. Notice the ftp.uu.net:joe in the Name: prompt?
That's another clue that anonymous FTP is special: FTP expects a normal user accounts to be used for transfers. dir At the ftp> prompt, you can type a number of commands to perform various functions.
One example is dir---it will list the files in the current directory.
Learning to recognize different formats will take some time.
The above example would put the names of every file that begins with an n into the local file outfilename. cd At the beginning of an FTP session, the user is in a "top-level" directory.
Most things are in directories below it (e.g. /pub).
To change the current directory, one uses the cd command.
To change to the directory pub, for example, one would type ftp> cd pub which would elicit the response 250 CWD command successful. Meaning the "Change Working Directory" command (cd) worked properly.
Moving "up" a directory is more system-specific---in Unix use the command cd .., and in VMS, cd [-]. get and put The actual transfer is performed with the get and put commands.
To get a file from the remote computer to the local system, the command takes the form: ftp> get filename where filename is the file on the remote system.
The put command will transfer a file from the local system to the remote system.
The reason is this: in a normal ASCII transfer (the default), certain characters are translated between systems, to help make text files more readable.
However, when binary files (those containing non-ASCII characters) are transferred, this translation should not take place.
One example is a binary program---a few changed characters can render it completely useless. To avoid this problem, it's possible to be in one of two modes---ASCII or binary.
In binary mode, the file isn't translated in any way. What's on the remote system is precisely what's received.
You'll often need to get a whole set of files and not have each of them confirmed---you know they're all right.
It's available in a number of ways: The Usenet groups comp.misc and comp.sources.wanted Anonymous FTP from pilot.njin.net [128.6.7.38], in /pub/ftp-list. Write to odin@pilot.njin.net with a Subject: line of listserv-request and a message body of send help.
Please don't bother Joe with your requests---the server will provide you with the list. The archie Server archie is always in lowercase A group of people at McGill University in Canada got together and created a query system called archie.
It was originally formed to be a quick and easy way to scan the offerings of the many anonymous FTP sites that are maintained around the world.
As time progressed, archie grew to include other valuable services as well. The archie service is accessible through an interactive telnet session, email queries, and command-line and X-window clients.
Collectively, these files represent well over 50 gigabytes of information, with new entries being added daily. The archie server automatically updates the listing information from each site about once a month.
Using help will yield instructions on using the prog command to make queries, set to control various aspects of the server's operation, et al. Type quit at the prompt to leave archie.
They query the archie databases and yield a list of systems that have the requested file(s) available for anonymous FTP, without requiring an interactive session to the server.
It's essential for the networked desktop. Mailing archie Users limited to email connectivity to the Internet should send a message to the address archie@archie.mcgill.ca with the single word help in the body of the message.
An email message will be returned explaining how to use the email archie server, along with the details of using FTPmail.
Most of the commands offered by the telnet interface can be used with the mail server. The whatis database In addition to offering access to anonymous FTP listings, archie also permits access to the whatis description database.
It includes the names and brief synopses for over 3,500 public domain software packages, datasets and informational documents located on the Internet. Additional whatis databases are scheduled to be added in the future.
Every day on Usenet the "blind men and the elephant" phenomenon appears, in spades.
In the opinion of the author, more flame wars (rabid arguments) arise because of a lack of understanding of the nature of Usenet than from any other source.
And consider that such flame wars arise, of necessity, among people who are on Usenet.
Imagine, then, how poorly understood Usenet must be by those outside! No essay on the nature of Usenet can ignore the erroneous impressions held by many Usenet users.
Therefore, this section will treat falsehoods first.
If you want to be understood, be accurate.) The Diversity of Usenet If the above definition of Usenet sounds vague, that's because it is. It is almost impossible to generalize over all Usenet sites in any non-trivial way.
Usenet encompasses government agencies, large universities, high schools, businesses of all sizes, home computers of all descriptions, etc. Every administrator controls his own site.
No one has any real control over any site but his own.
The administrator gets his power from the owner of the system he administers.
As long as the owner is happy with the job the administrator is doing, he can do whatever he pleases, up to and including cutting off Usenet entirely.
C'est la vie. What Usenet Is Not Usenet is not an organization. Usenet has no central authority.
In fact, it has no central anything. There is a vague notion of "upstream" and "downstream" related to the direction of high-volume news flow.
It follows that, to the extent that "upstream" sites decide what traffic they will carry for their "downstream" neighbors, that "upstream" sites have some influence on their neighbors.
But such influence is usually easy to circumvent, and heavy-handed manipulation typically results in a backlash of resentment. Usenet is not a democracy. A democracy can be loosely defined as "government of the people, by the people, for the people.
However, as explained above, Usenet is not an organization, and only an organization can be run as a democracy.
Even a democracy must be organized, for if it lacks a means of enforcing the peoples' wishes, then it may as well not exist. Some people wish that Usenet were a democracy.
Many people pretend that it is.
Both groups are sadly deluded. Usenet is not fair. After all, who shall decide what's fair?
For that matter, if someone is behaving unfairly, who's going to stop him?
Freedom of speech also means freedom not to speak; if I choose not to use my computer to aid your speech, that is my right.
Freedom of the press belongs to those who own one. Usenet is not a public utility. Some Usenet sites are publicly funded or subsidized.
Most of them, by plain count, are not.
There is no government monopoly on Usenet, and little or no control. Usenet is not a commercial network. Many Usenet sites are academic or government organizations; in fact, Usenet originated in academia.
Therefore, there is a Usenet custom of keeping commercial traffic to a minimum.
If such commercial traffic is generally considered worth carrying, then it may be grudgingly tolerated.
Even so, it is usually separated somehow from non-commercial traffic; see comp.newprod. Usenet is not the Internet. The Internet is a wide-ranging network, parts of which are subsidized by various governments.
The Internet carries many kinds of traffic; Usenet is only one of them.
And the Internet is only one of the various networks carrying Usenet traffic. Usenet is not a Unix network, nor even an ASCII network. Don't assume that everyone is using "rn" on a Unix machine.
There are Vaxen running VMS, IBM mainframes, Amigas, and MS-DOS PCs reading and posting to Usenet.
And, yes, some of them use (shudder) EBCDIC. Ignore them if you like, but they're out there. Usenet is not software. There are dozens of software packages used at various sites to transport and read Usenet articles.
Those sites called themselves "the backbone." But things have changed.
Nowadays, even the smallest Internet site has connectivity the likes of which the backbone admin of yesteryear could only dream.
In addition, in the U.S., the advent of cheaper long-distance calls and high-speed modems has made long-distance Usenet feeds thinkable for smaller companies.
There is only one pre-eminent UUCP transport site today in the U.S., namely UUNET.
In Europe, different cost structures favored the creation of strictly controlled hierarchical organizations with central registries.
This is all very unlike the traditional mode of U.S. sites (pick a name, get the software, get a feed, you're on).
Europe's "benign monopolies", long uncontested, now face competition from looser organizations patterned after the U.S. model. Group Creation As discussed above, Usenet is not a democracy.
Nevertheless, currently the most popular way to create a new newsgroup involves a "vote" to determine popular support for (and opposition to) a proposed newsgroup.
Newsgroup Creation, for detailed instructions and guidelines on the process involved in making a newsgroup. If you follow the guidelines, it is probable that your group will be created and will be widely propagated.
However, due to the nature of Usenet, there is no way for any user to enforce the results of a newsgroup vote (or any other decision, for that matter).
If you're too impatient to wait six months, then you really need to learn; read news.groups for a year instead.
If you just can't wait, find a Usenet old hand to run the vote for you. Readers may think this advice unnecessarily strict.
Ignore it at your peril.
It is embarrassing to speak before learning.
It is foolish to jump into a society you don't understand with your mouth open.
If the owner of the machine you use says, "We will not carry alt.sex on this machine," and you are not happy with that order, you have no Usenet recourse.
What can we outsiders do, after all? That doesn't mean you are without options.
Depending on the nature of your site, you may have some internal political recourse.
Or you might find external pressure helpful.
Or, with a minimal investment, you can get a feed of your own from somewhere else.
Persuade them that the user in question is a problem for them, and they might do something (if they feel like it).
Then came Usenet in 1979, shortly after the release of V7 Unix with UUCP; and it was better.
Two Duke University grad students in North Carolina, Tom Truscott and Jim Ellis, thought of hooking computers together to exchange information with the Unix community.
Steve Bellovin, a grad student at the University of North Carolina, put together the first version of the news software using shell scripts and installed it on the first two sites: unc and duke.
Shortly thereafter, Steve Daniel did another implementation in the C programming language for public distribution.
This rewrite was the "B" news version.
The first public release was version 2.1 in 1982; all versions before 2.1 were considered in beta test.
As The Net grew, the news software was expanded and modified.
The last version maintained and released primarily by Mark was 2.10.1. Rick Adams, then at the Center for Seismic Studies, took over coordination of the maintenance and enhancement of the news software with the 2.10.2 release in 1984.
By this time, the increasing volume of news was becoming a concern, and the mechanism for moderated groups was added to the software at 2.10.2.
Moderated groups were inspired by ARPA mailing lists and experience with other bulletin board systems.
In late 1986, version 2.11 of news was released, including a number of changes to support a new naming structure for newsgroups, enhanced batching and compression, enhanced ihave/sendme control messages, and other features.
The current release of news is 2.11, patchlevel 19. A new version of news, becoming known as "C" news, has been developed at the University of Toronto by Geoff Collyer and Henry Spencer.
Since the groups are in a tree structure, the various areas are called hierarchies.
Not all groups actually enjoy such wide distribution, however.
For further info on what the FSF is, FSF. biz Business-related groups. Moderated vs Unmoderated Some newsgroups insist that the discussion remain focused and on-target; to serve this need, moderated groups came to be.
All articles posted to a moderated group get mailed to the group's moderator.
He or she periodically (hopefully sooner than later) reviews the posts, and then either posts them individually to Usenet, or posts a composite digest of the articles for the past day or two.
This is how many mailing list gateways work (for example, the Risks Digest). news.groups & news.announce.newgroups Being a good net.citizen includes being involved in the continuing growth and evolution of the Usenet system.
One part of this involvement includes following the discussion in the groups news.groups and the notes in news.announce.newgroups.
It is there that discussion goes on about the creation of new groups and destruction of inactive ones.
Every person on Usenet is allowed and encouraged to vote on the creation of a newsgroup. How Usenet Works The transmission of Usenet news is entirely cooperative.
Feeds are generally provided out of good will and the desire to distribute news everywhere.
There are places which provide feeds for a fee (e.g. UUNET), but for the large part no exchange of money is involved. There are two major transport methods, UUCP and NNTP.
The first is mainly modem-based and involves the normal charges for telephone calls.
The second, NNTP, is the primary method for distributing news over the Internet. With UUCP, news is stored in batches on a site until the neighbor calls to receive the articles, or the feed site happens to call.
A list of groups which the neighbor wishes to receive is maintained on the feed site.
The Cnews system compresses its batches, which can dramatically reduce the transmission time necessary for a relatively heavy newsfeed. NNTP, on the other hand, offers a little more latitude with how news is sent.
The traditional store-and-forward method is, of course, available.
Given the "real-time" nature of the Internet, though, other methods have been devised.
Programs now keep constant connections with their news neighbors, sending news nearly instantaneously, and can handle dozens of simultaneous feeds, both incoming and outgoing. The transmission of a Usenet article is centered around the unique Message-ID: header.
When an NNTP site offers an article to a neighbor, it says it has that specific Message ID.
If the neighbor finds it hasn't received the article yet, it tells the feed to send it through; this is repeated for each and every article that's waiting for the neighbor.
The RFCs do tend to be rather dry reading, particularly to the new user. Mail Gateways A natural progression is for Usenet news and electronic mailing lists to somehow become merged---which they have, in the form of news gateways.
If you follow a few basic guidelines, you, and everyone that reads your posts, will be much happier in the long run. Signatures At the end of most articles is a small blurb called a person's signature.
Even so, signatures have become the graffiti of computers.
Netiquette dictates limiting oneself to this "quota" of four---some people make signatures that are ten lines or even more, including elaborate ASCII drawings of their hand-written signature or faces or even the space shuttle.
This is not cute, and will bother people to no end. Similarly, it's not necessary to include your signature---if you forget to append it to an article, don't worry about it.
The article's just as good as it ever would be, and contains everything you should want to say.
Don't re-post the article just to include the signature. Posting Personal Messages If mail to a person doesn't make it through, avoid posting the message to a newsgroup.
Even if the likelihood of that person reading the group is very high, all of the other people reading the articles don't give a whit what you have to say to Jim Morrison.
Simply wait for the person to post again and double-check the address, or get in touch with your system administrator and see if it's a problem with local email delivery.
Often the mechanics of getting messages out is the most difficult part of Usenet.
To this end, many, many users find it necessary to post their tests to "normal" groups (for example, news.admin or comp.mail.misc).
This is considered a major netiquette faux pas in the Usenet world.
There are a number of groups available, called test groups, that exist solely for the purpose of trying out a news system, reader, or even new signature.
They include alt.test gnu.gnusenet.test misc.test some of which will generate auto-magic replies to your posts to let you know they made it through.
There are certain denizens of Usenet that frequent the test groups to help new users out.
They respond to the posts, often including the article so the poster can see how it got to the person's site.
One should act with skepticism whenever a notable personality is "seen" in a newsgroup. Summaries Authors of articles occasionally say that readers should reply by mail and they'll summarize.
Accordingly, readers should do just that---reply via mail.
Responding with a followup article to such an article defeats the intention of the author.
She, in a few days, will post one article containing the highlights of the responses she received.
By following up to the whole group, the author may not read what you have to say. When creating a summary of the replies to a post, try to make it as reader-friendly as possible.
Avoid just putting all of the messages received into one big file.
Here's a list of every person > in PA that currently engages in it publicly: line ... etc ... This is a severe example (potentially a horribly long article), but proves a point.
When you quote another person, edit out whatever isn't directly applicable to your reply. {But not changing their words, of course. } This gives the reader of the new article a better idea of what points you were addressing.
By including the entire article, you'll only annoy those reading it.
Also, signatures in the original aren't necessary; the readers already know who wrote it (by the attribution). Avoid being tedious with responses---rather than pick apart an article, address it in parts or as a whole.
No one enjoys watching people bicker incessantly. Crossposting The Newsgroups: line isn't limited to just one group---an article can be posted in a list of groups.
For instance, the line Newsgroups: sci.space,comp.simulation posts the article to both the groups sci.space and comp.simulation.
It's usually safe to crosspost to up to three or four groups.
To list more than that is considered "excessive noise." It's also suggested that if an article is crossposted a Followup-To: header be included.
It should name the group to which all additional discussion should be directed to.
For the above example a possible Followup-To: would be Followup-To: sci.space which would make all followups automatically be posted to just sci.space, rather than both sci.space and comp.simulation.
If every response made with a newsreader's "followup" command should go to the person posting the article no matter what, there's also a mechanism worked in to accommodate.
The Followup-To: header should contain the single word poster: Followup-To: poster Certain newsreaders will use this to sense that a reply should never be posted back onto The Net.
If you have terrible spelling, keep a dictionary near by.
If you have trouble with grammar and punctuation, try to get a book on English grammar and composition (found in many bookstores and at garage sales).
By all means pay attention to what you say---it makes you who you are on The Net. Likewise, try to be clear in what you ask.
Ambiguous or vague questions often lead to no response at all, leaving the poster discouraged.
Give as much essential information as you feel is necessary to let people help you, but keep it within limits.
At the same time, Subject: lines that're too wordy tend to be irritating.
Posting articles asking questions like What computer should I buy?
An Atari ST or an Amiga? will lead only to fervent arguments over the merits and drawbacks of each brand.
Don't even ask The Net---go to a local user group, or do some research of your own like reading some magazine reviews.
They're intended to help cut down on the redundant traffic in a group.
For example, in the newsgroup alt.tv.simpsons, one recurring question is Did you notice that there's a different blackboard opening at the beginning of every Simpsons episode?
As a result, it's part of the FAQ for that group. Usually, FAQ lists are posted at the beginning of each month, and are set to expire one month later (when, supposedly, the next FAQ will be published).
It gives the user the opportunity to be on one computer system and do work on another, which may be across the street or thousands of miles away.
The most common is telnet itself, though.
It takes the form of: telnet somewhere.domain To be safe, we'll use your local system as a working example.
By now, you hopefully know your site's domain name.
If not, ask or try to figure it out.
Local documentation should be checked for information on specific commands, functions, and escape character that can be used. Telnet Ports Many telnet clients also include a third option, the port on which the connection should take place.
Normally, port 23 is the default telnet port; the user never has to think about it.
But sometimes it's desirable to telnet to a different port on a system, where there may be a service available, or to aid in debugging a problem.
Using telnet somewhere.domain port will connect the user to the given port on the system somewhere.domain.
Many libraries use this port method to offer their facilities to the general Internet community; other services are also available.
For instance, one would type telnet martini.eecs.umich.edu 3000 to connect to the geographic server at the University of Michigan (Geographic Server).
Now many of us can check on our local library's holdings or that of a library halfway around the world! Many, many institutions of higher learning have made their library catalogs available for searching by anyone on the Internet.
Also, the Internet Resource Guide (IRG) also describes a few libraries that are accessible---IRG for further information. Art St. George and Ron Larsen are maintaining a list of Internet-accessible libraries and databases often referred to as "the St. George directory.
It began with only library catalogs but has expanded to include sections on campus-wide information systems, and even bulletin board systems that are not on the Internet.
The library catalog sections are divided into those that are free, those that charge, and international (i.e. non-U.S.) catalogs; they are arranged by state, province, or country within each section.
There is also a section giving dialup information for some of the library catalogs.
It's available for FTP (Anonymous FTP) on nic.cerf.net in the directory cerfnet/cerfnet_info/library_catalog.
The file internet-catalogs has a date suffix; check for the most current date.
The information is updated periodically. Billy Barron, Systems Manager at the University of North Texas, produces a directory as an aid to his user community.
It complements the St. George guide by providing a standard format for all systems which lists the Internet address, login instructions, the system vendor, and logoff information.
The arrangement is alphabetic by organization name.
One such system is the Cleveland Freenet, sponsored by CWRU (Case Western Reserve University).
Anyone and everyone is welcome to join and take part in the exciting project---that of a National Telecomputing Public Network, where everyone benefits.
There's no charge for the registration process and no charge to use the system. To register, telnet to any one of freenet-in-a.cwru.edu freenet-in-b.cwru.edu freenet-in-c.cwru.edu After you're connected, choose the entry on the menu that signifies you're a guest user.
At that point you're free to use the system as you wish.
Most of these services are email registries themselves, but Knowbot provides a very comfortable way to access all of them in one place. Telnet to nri.reston.va.us on port 185. White Pages PSI maintains a directory of information on individuals.
It will list the person's name, organization, and email address if it is given.
Telnet to wp.psi.net and log in as fred.
The White Pages Project also includes an interface to use Xwindows remotely. Faculty and Staff Listings Many universities offer access to information on current faculty and staff.
New ones spring up regularly. To find out more about the databases in this section, contact the people directly responsible for them.
Their areas of concentration and the software used to implement them are widely disparate, and are probably beyond the author's expertise.
Other services are available to CARL members including an online encyclopedia.
Telnet to pac.carl.org, or write to help@carl.org for more details. PENpages PENpages is an agriculturally-oriented database administered by Pennsylvania State University.
Information entered into PENpages is provided by numerous sources including the Pennsylvania Dept. of Agriculture, Rutgers University, and Penn State.
Easy-to-use menus guide users to information ranging from cattle and agricultural prices to current weather information, from health information to agricultural news from around the nation.
A keyword search option also allows users to search the database for related information and articles.
The database is updated daily, and a listing of most recent additions is displayed after login.
Telnet to psupen.psu.edu and log in as the user PNOTPA. Clemson Univ. Forestry & Agricultural Network Clemson maintains a database similar to PENpages in content, but the information provided tends to be localized to the Southeastern United States.
A menu-driven database offers queries involving the weather, food, family, and human resources.
Telnet to eureka.clemson.edu and log in as PUBLIC.
Telnet to info.umd.edu and log in as info.
Available are current weather conditions and forecasts for cities in the U.S., a national weather summary, ski conditions, earthquake and hurricane updates, and a listing of severe weather conditions.
The system provides accurate and timely federal agency information to colleges, universities, and other research organizations.
To access the database, telnet to fedix.fie.com and log in as fedix. Science & Technology Information System The STIS is maintained by the National Science Foundation (NSF), and provides access to many NSF publications.
The full text of publications can be searched online and copied from the system, which can accommodate up to ten users at one time.
Telnet to stis.nsf.gov and log in as public.
Everything on the system is also available via anonymous FTP.
For further information, contact: STIS, Office of Information Systems, Room 401 National Science Foundation 1800 G.
20550 stis-request@nsf.gov (202) 357-7492 (202) 357-7663 (Fax) Ocean Network Information Center The University of Delaware College of Marine Studies offers access to an interactive database of research information covering all aspects of marine studies, nicknamed OCEANIC.
This includes the World Oceanic Circulation Experiment (WOCE) information and program information, research ship schedules and information, and a Who's Who of email and mailing addresses for oceanic studies.
NED is an object-oriented database which contains extensive information for nearly 132,000 extragalactic objects taken from about major catalogs of galaxies, quasars, infrared and radio sources.
NED provides positions, names, and other basic data (e.g. magnitude types, sizes and redshifts as well as bibliographic references and abstracts).
Searches can be done by name, around a name, and on an astronomical position.
NED contains a tutorial which guides the user through the retrieval process.
Telnet to ipac.caltech.edu and log in as ned. U.S.
Naval Observatory Automated Data Service Operated by the U.S.
Naval Observatory in Washington, D.C., this automated data service provides database access to information ranging from current navigational satellite positioning, astronomical data, and software utilities.
A wide variety of databases can be searched and instructions for file transfer are given.
Howard Rheingold, Virtual Reality p255 ----------------- Various Tools New and interesting ways to use the Internet are being dreamed up every day.
As they gain wide-spread use, some methods become near-standard (or actual written standard) tools for Internet users to take advantage of.
A few are detailed here; there are undoubtedly others, and new ideas spring up all the time.
An active user of the Internet will discover most of the more common ones in time.
Usually, these services are free.
Commercial Services for applications that are commercially available over the Internet. Usenet is often used to announce a new service or capability on the Internet.
In particular, the groups comp.archives and comp.protocols.tcp-ip are good places to look.
Information will drift into other areas as word spreads.
Usenet News for information on reading news. Finger On many systems there exists the finger command, which yield information about each user that's currently logged in. This command also has extensions for use over the Internet, as well.
Under normal circumstances, the command is simply finger for a summary of who's logged into the local system, or finger username for specific information about a user.
It's also possible to go one step further and go onto the network.
The Internet provides for that as well, in the form of talk.
To leave talk, on many systems one would type Ctrl-C (hold down the Control key and press C).
Check local documentation to be sure. There are two different versions of talk in common use today.
The first, dubbed "old talk," is supported by a set of Unix systems (most notably, those currently sold by Sun).
The second, ntalk (aka "new talk"), is more of the standard.
If, when attempting to talk with another user, it responds with an error about protocol families, odds are the incompatibilities between versions of talk is the culprit.
It's up to the system administrators of sites which use the old talk to install ntalk for their users. Wide Area Information Servers (WAIS) The WHOIS Database The main WHOIS database is run at the Network Information Center (NIC).
The whois command will let you search a database of every registered domain (e.g. mit.edu) and of registered users.
It's primarily used by system postmasters or listowners to find the Points of Contact for a site, to let them know of a problem or contact them for one reason or another.
You can also find out their postal address.
People who are administrative or technical contacts for domains are registered automatically when their domain applications are processed.
For normal users, one must simply fill out a form from the NIC.
FTP to nic.ddn.mil and get the file netinfo/user-template.txt.
The completed form should be mailed to registrar@nic.ddn.mil. Other Uses of WHOIS Also, many educational sites run WHOIS servers of their own, to offer information about people who may be currently on the staff or attending the institution.
To specify a WHOIS server, many implementations include some sort of option or qualifier---in VMS under MultiNet, it's /HOST, in Unix -h.
To receive information about using the Stanford server, one might use the command whois -h stanford.edu help A large list of systems offering WHOIS services is being maintained by Matt Power of MIT (mhpower@stan.mit.edu).
It is available via anonymous FTP from sipb.mit.edu, in the directory pub/whois.
As time progresses and more outlets for commercial activity appear, once-restricted traffic (by the NSFnet Acceptable Use Policy) may now flow freely.
It is a compilation of entries for hundreds of sts, dozens of journals and newsletters, and a many "other" titles, including newsletter-digests, into one reference source.
The publication is available to ARL members for $10 and to non-members for $20 (add $5 postage per directory for foreign addresses).
Orders of six or more copies will receive a 10% discount; all orders must be prepaid and sent to the ARL. Commercial Databases The American Institute of Physics maintains the Physics Information Network.
It contains the bibliographic SPIN and General Physics Advanced Abstracts databases.
ClariNews articles are distributed in 100 newsgroups based on their subject matter, and are keyworded for additional topics and the geographical location of the story.
ClariNews includes headlines, industry news, box scores, network TV schedules, and more.
Most people assume that everyone's familiar with them, and they require no additional explanation.
If only that were true! This section addresses a few topics that are commonly encountered and asked about as a new user explores Cyberspace.
Some of them are directly related to how the networks are run today; other points are simply interesting to read about. The Internet Worm from a letter by Severo M.
He chose to release it from MIT, to disguise the fact that the worm came from Cornell.
Morris soon discovered that the program was replicating and reinfecting machines at a much faster rate than he had anticipated---there was a bug.
Ultimately, many machines at locations around the country either crashed or became "catatonic." When Morris realized what was happening, he contacted a friend at Harvard to discuss a solution.
Eventually, they sent an anonymous message from Harvard over the network, instructing programmers how to kill the worm and prevent reinfection.
However, because the network route was clogged, this message did not get through until it was too late.
Computers were affected at many sites, including universities, military sites, and medical research facilities.
After about twelve hours, the team at Berkeley came up with steps that would help retard the spread of the virus.
Another method was also discovered at Purdue and widely published.
Morris was later named in The New York Times as the author (though this hadn't yet been officially proven, there was a substantial body of evidence pointing to Morris). Robert T.
Morris was convicted of violating the computer Fraud and Abuse Act (Title 18), and sentenced to three years of probation, 400 hours of community service, a fine of $10,050, and the costs of his supervision.
The only way everyone can peacefully co-exist in Cyberspace is by ensuring rapid recognition of any existing problems. Organizations The indomitable need for humans to congregate and share their common interests is also present in the computing world.
There are local chapters around the world, and many colleges and universities endorse student chapters.
Lecturers frequent these meetings, which tend to be one step above the normal "user group" gathering.
Each of the SIGs also publishes its own newsletter.
There is a Usenet group, comp.org.acm, for the discussion of ACM topics.
It traces its history to the fall of 1981, when several researchers in Palo Alto, California, organized a lunch meeting to discuss their shared concerns about the connection between computing and the nuclear arms race.
They also have mailing list counterparts for those that don't have access to Usenet, eff-talk-request@eff.org and eff-news-request@eff.org.
The first is an informal arena (aka a normal newsgroup) where anyone may voice his or her opinions.
The second, comp.org.eff.news, is a moderated area for regular postings from the EFF in the form of EFFector Online.
To submit a posting for the EFFector Online, or to get general information about the EFF, write to eff@eff.org.
It is dedicated to eliminating restrictions on copying, redistributing, and modifying software. The word "free" in their name does not refer to price; it refers to freedom.
First, the freedom to copy a program and redistribute it to your neighbors, so that they can use it as well as you.
The name GNU is itself recursive (the mainstay of the LISP language); it stands for "Gnu's Not Unix."} When it is released, everyone will be permitted to copy it and distribute it to others.
The League is not opposed to the legal system that Congress intended--copyright on individual programs.
On May 24, 1989, the League picketed Lotus headquarters because of their lawsuits, and then again on August 2, 1990.
These marches stimulated widespread media coverage for the issue.
They welcome suggestions for other activities, as well as help in carrying them out. For information on the League and how to join, write to League for Programming Freedom 1 Kendall Square #143 P.O.
Box 9171 Cambridge, MA 02139 league@prep.ai.mit.edu Networking Initiatives Research and development are two buzz words often heard when discussing the networking field---everything needs to go faster, over longer distances, for a lower cost.
To "keep current," one should read the various trade magazines and newspapers, or frequent the networking-oriented newsgroups of Usenet.
If possible, attend trade shows and symposia like Usenix, Interop, et. al. ISDN NREN The National Research and Education Network (NREN) is a five-year project approved by Congress in the Fall of 1991.
It's intended to create a national electronic "super-highway.
The NREN will be 50 times faster than the fastest available networks (at the time of this writing).
Proponents of the NREN claim it will be possible to transfer the equivalent of the entire text of the Encyclopedia Britannica in one second.
Further information, including the original text of the bill presented by Senator Al Gore (D--TN), is available through anonymous FTP to nis.nsf.net, in the directory nsfnet.
The goal of the guide is to increase the visibility of various Internet resources that may help users do their work better.
While not yet an exhaustive list, the guide is a useful compendium of many resources and can be a helpful reference for a new user. Resources listed are grouped by types into sections.
Current sections include descriptions of online library catalogs, data archives, online white pages directory services, networks, network information centers, and computational resources, such as supercomputers.
Each entry describes the resource, identifies who can use the resource, explains how to reach the local network via the Internet, and lists contacts for more information.
The list is distributed electronically by the NNSC.
The general process for creating an RFC is for someone wanting something formalized to write a document describing the issue and mailing it to Jon Postel (postel@isi.edu).
He acts as a referee for the proposal.
It is then commented upon by all those wishing to take part in the discussion (electronically, of course).
It may go through multiple revisions. Should it be generally accepted as a good idea, it will be assigned a number and filed with the RFCs. The RFCs can be divided into five groups: required, suggested, directional, informational and obsolete.
Required RFCs (e.g., RFC-791, The Internet Protocol) must be implemented on any host connected to the Internet. Suggested RFCs are generally implemented by network hosts.
Lack of them does not preclude access to the Internet, but may impact its usability.
RFC-793, Transmission Control Protocol, is a must for those implementing TCP. Directional RFCs were discussed and agreed to, but their application has never come into wide use.
This may be due to the lack of wide need for the specific application (RFC-937, The Post Office Protocol) or that, although technically superior, ran against other pervasive approaches (RFC-891, Hello).
It is suggested that, should the facility be required by a particular site, an implementation be done in accordance with the RFC.
Topics range from answers to common questions for new and experienced users to a suggested bibliography. Finally, as the Internet has grown and technology has changed, some RFCs become unnecessary.
These obsolete RFCs cannot be ignored, however.
Frequently when a change is made to some RFC that causes a new one to obsolete others, the new RFC only contains explanations and motivations for the change.
However, this booklet should provide enough information to make the incredible breadth and complexity of the Internet a mite less imposing.
If something was unclear, left you with doubts, or wasn't addressed, it should be fixed.
The ultimate desire is to make it so one person can contact anyone else no matter where they are.
A number of "gateways" between networks have been set up.
They include: AppleLink Quantum Services sells access to AppleLink, which is similar to QuantumLink for Commodore computers and PCLink for IBM PCs and compatibles.
It also provides email access through the address user@applelink.apple.com. ATTMail AT&T sells a commercial email service called ATTMail.
Normally CompuServe ids are represented as being separated by a comma (like 71999,141); since most mailers don't react well to having commas in addresses, it was changed to a period.
If John Smith is on the node 1:2/3.4 on FidoNet, his or her email address would be john.smith@p4.f3.n2.z1.fidonet.org (notice how the numbers fall in place?). MCI Mail MCI also sells email accounts (similar to ATTMail).
Users can be reached with user@mcimail.com. PeaceNet Users on the PeaceNet network can be reached by writing to user@igc.org. The Well Users on the service The Well can be reached by writing to user@well.sf.ca.us.
The Well is directly connected to the Internet. This table is far from complete.
In addition to sites not being listed, some services are not (nor do they plan to be) accessible from the "outside" (like Prodigy); others, like GEnie, are actively investigating the possibility of creating a gateway into their system.
For the latest information, consult a list called the Inter-Network Mail Guide.
These are programs that receive email messages that contain commands, and act on them.
For example, sending an archive server the command help will usually yield, in the form of a piece of email, information on how to use the various commands that the server has available. One such archive server is service@nic.ddn.mil.
Maintained by the Network Information Center (NIC) in Chantilly, VA, the server is set up to make all of the information at the NIC available for people who don't have access to FTP.
This also includes the WHOIS service (Whois).
Anonymous FTP for a general overview of how to FTP.
Write to ftpmail@decwrl.dec.com with help in the body of the letter for instructions on its use.
The formal Request For Discussion (RFD) should be posted to news.announce.newgroups, along with any other groups or mailing lists at all related to the proposed topic. news.announce.newgroups is moderated.
You should place it first in the Newsgroups: header, so that it will get mailed to the moderator only.
Also the Followup-To: header will be set so that the actual discussion takes place only in news.groups.
If it's to be moderated, the discussion will also decide who the moderator will be.
The CFV should be posted (or mailed to the news.announce.newgroups moderator) as soon as possible after the discussion ends (to keep it fresh in everyone's mind). The Call for Votes should include clear instructions on how to cast a vote.
It's important that it be clearly explained how to both vote for and against a group (and be of equivalent difficulty or ease).
If it's easier for you or your administrator, two separate addresses can be used to mail yes and no votes to, providing that they're on the same machine.
Regardless of the method, everyone must have a very specific idea of how to get his/her vote counted. The voting period can last between 21 and 31 days, no matter what the preliminary results of the vote are.
A vote can't be called off simply because 400 "no" votes have come in and only two "yes" votes.
The charter can't change in mid-vote.
A mass acknowledgement ("Mass ACK" or "Vote ACK") is permitted; however, it must be presented in a way that gives no indication of which way a person voted.
One way to avoid this is to create one large list of everyone who's voted, and sort it in alphabetical order.
It should not be two sorted lists (of the yes and no votes, respectively). Every vote is autonomous.
The votes for or against one group can't be transferred to another, similar proposal.
A vote can only count for the exact proposal that it was a response to.
Whew! Finally, the vote has to be explicit; they should be of the form I vote for the group foo.bar as proposed or I vote against the group foo.bar as proposed.
Again, it can also be posted to any of the groups listed in the original CFV.
The tally should make clear which way a person voted, so the results can be verified if it proves necessary to do so. After the vote result is posted to news.announce.newgroups, there is a mandatory five-day waiting period.
For a more complete (and very entertaining) reference, it's suggested you get a copy of The New Hacker's Dictionary, which is based on a VERY large text file called the Jargon File.
This is `metacommunication', and there are literally hundreds of them, from the obvious to the obscure.
This particular example expresses "happiness.
Tilt your head to the left 90 degrees. Smilies are also used to denote sarcasm. Network addresses are usually of two types: the physical or hardware address of a network interface card; for ethernet this 48-bit address might be 0260.8C00.7666.
The 32-bit Internet address is made up of a network number, a subnetwork number, and a host number.
Each host computer on the Internet, has a unique address.
For example, all Internet addresses at Colorado State have a network number of 129.82, a subnet number in the range of 1-254, and a host number in the range of 1-254.
All Internet hosts have a numeric address and an English-style name.
It served as the basis for early networking research as well as a central backbone during the development of the Internet.
The ARPAnet consisted of individual packet switching computers interconnected by leased lines.
Also used in reference to a system that acts as a "hub" for activity (although those are becoming much less prevalent now than they were ten years ago). bandwidth The capacity of a medium to transmit a signal.
More informally, the mythical "size" of The Net, and its ability to carry the files and messages of those that use it.
At least one (occasionally two or more) email address is customarily included as a repository for the votes.
It contains a source and destination address along with data.
For example, the author's address is brendan@cs.widener.edu. ethernet A 10-million bit per second networking scheme originally developed by Xerox Corporation.
FDDI specifies a 100-million bit per second data rate.
For example, the system lisa at Widener University has a FQDN of lisa.cs.widener.edu. FTP (File Transfer Protocol) The Internet standard high-level protocol for transferring files from one computer to another. FYI An abbreviation for the phrase "for your information.
There is also a series of RFCs put out by the Network Information Center called FYIs; they address common questions of new users and many other useful things.
RFCs for instructions on retrieving FYIs. gateway A special-purpose dedicated computer that attaches to two or more networks and routes packets from one network to the other.
In particular, an Internet gateway routes IP datagrams among the networks it connects.
Gateways route packets to other gateways until they can be delivered to the final destination directly across one physical network. header The portion of a packet, preceding the actual data, containing source and destination addresses and error-checking fields.
The Internet number for the site cs.widener.edu is 147.31.254.130.
A resolver is used to translate between hostnames and Internet addresses. interoperate The ability of multi-vendor computers to work together using a common set of protocols.
In a Unix system, the kernel is a program that contains the device drivers, the memory management routines, the scheduler, and system calls.
This can be copper wire, coaxial cable, optical fiber, or electromagnetic wave (as in microwave). multiplex The division of a single transmission medium into multiple logical channels supporting many simultaneous sessions.
For example, one network may have simultaneous FTP, telnet, rlogin, and SMTP connections, all going at the same time. net.citizen An inhabitant of Cyberspace.
One usually tries to be a good net.citizen, lest one be flamed. netiquette A pun on "etiquette"; proper behavior on The Net.
Usenet Netiquette. network A group of machines connected together so they can transmit information to one another.
The term is used loosely.
The word `Fantastic' is usually replaced with one much more vulgar. SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) The Internet standard protocol for transferring electronic mail messages from one computer to another.
SMTP specifies how two mail systems interact and the format of control messages they exchange to transfer mail. server A computer that shares its resources, such as printers and files, with other computers on the network.
More often than not, there's substantial activity in a newsgroup, but a very small number of those articles actually contain anything useful. signature The small, usually four-line message at the bottom of a piece of email or a Usenet article.
In Unix, it's added by creating a file ..signature in the user's home directory.
Large signatures are a no-no. summarize To encapsulate a number of responses into one coherent, usable message.
S ISDN User-Network Interfaces IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications 343--348 May 1986 magazine: Ginsberg, K Getting from Here to There UNIX REVIEW 45 January 1986 magazine: Hiltz, S.
C The ARPA Network Design Decisions Computer Networks 243--289 1977 magazine: Ornstein, S.
The Time Machine An Invention by H.
His grey eyes shone and twinkled, and his usually pale face was flushed and animated.
The fire burnt brightly, and the soft radiance of the incandescent lights in the lilies of silver caught the bubbles that flashed and passed in our glasses.
Our chairs, being his patents, embraced and caressed us rather than submitted to be sat upon, and there was that luxurious after-dinner atmosphere, when thought runs gracefully free of the trammels of precision.
And he put it to us in this way-marking the points with a lean forefinger-as we sat and lazily admired his earnestness over this new paradox (as we thought it) and his fecundity. "You must follow me carefully.
I shall have to controvert one or two ideas that are almost universally accepted.
You will soon admit as much as I need from you.
You know of course that a mathematical line, a line of thickness _nil_, has no real existence.
Neither has a mathematical plane. These things are mere abstractions." "That is all right," said the Psychologist. "Nor, having only length, breadth, and thickness, can a cube have a real existence." "There I object," said Filby.
Of course a solid body may exist.
All real things-" "So most people think.
Can an _instantaneous_ cube exist?" "Don't follow you," said Filby. "Can a cube that does not last for any time at all, have a real existence?" Filby became pensive.
Clearly," the Time Traveller proceeded, "any real body must have extension in _four_ directions: it must have Length, Breadth, Thickness, and-Duration.
But through a natural infirmity of the flesh, which I will explain to you in a moment, we incline to overlook this fact.
There are really four dimensions, three which we call the three planes of Space, and a fourth, Time.
It is only another way of looking at Time. _There is no difference between Time and any of the three dimensions of Space except that our consciousness moves along it_.
But some foolish people have got hold of the wrong side of that idea.
You have all heard what they have to say about this Fourth Dimension?" "_I_ have not," said the Provincial Mayor. "It is simply this.
That Space, as our mathematicians have it, is spoken of as having three dimensions, which one may call Length, Breadth, and Thickness, and is always definable by reference to three planes, each at right angles to the others.
But some philosophical people have been asking why _three_ dimensions particularly-why not another direction at right angles to the other three?-and have even tried to construct a Four-Dimensional geometry.
Professor Simon Newcomb was expounding this to the New York Mathematical Society only a month or so ago.
See?" "I think so," murmured the Provincial Mayor; and, knitting his brows, he lapsed into an introspective state, his lips moving as one who repeats mystic words.
Yes, I think I see it now," he said after some time, brightening in a quite transitory manner. "Well, I do not mind telling you I have been at work upon this geometry of Four Dimensions for some time.
Some of my results are curious.
For instance, here is a portrait of a man at eight years old, another at fifteen, another at seventeen, another at twenty-three, and so on.
Here is a popular scientific diagram, a weather record.
This line I trace with my finger shows the movement of the barometer.
Yesterday it was so high, yesterday night it fell, then this morning it rose again, and so gently upward to here.
Surely the mercury did not trace this line in any of the dimensions of Space generally recognised?
And why cannot we move about in Time as we move about in the other dimensions of Space?" The Time Traveller smiled.
Are you so sure we can move freely in Space?
Right and left we can go, backward and forward freely enough, and men always have done so.
I admit we move freely in two dimensions. But how about up and down?
Gravitation limits us there." "Not exactly," said the Medical Man.
That is just where the whole world has gone wrong.
We are always getting away from the present moment.
Our mental existences, which are immaterial and have no dimensions, are passing along the Time-Dimension with a uniform velocity from the cradle to the grave.
Just as we should travel _down_ if we began our existence fifty miles above the earth's surface." "But the great difficulty is this," interrupted the Psychologist.
You _can_ move about in all directions of Space, but you cannot move about in Time." "That is the germ of my great discovery.
But you are wrong to say that we cannot move about in Time.
For instance, if I am recalling an incident very vividly I go back to the instant of its occurrence: I become absent-minded, as you say.
I jump back for a moment.
Of course we have no means of staying back for any length of Time, any more than a savage or an animal has of staying six feet above the ground.
But a civilised man is better off than the savage in this respect.
But now you begin to see the object of my investigations into the geometry of Four Dimensions.
The German scholars have improved Greek so much." "Then there is the future," said the Very Young Man.
You are going to verify _that_?" "The experiment!" cried Filby, who was getting brain-weary. "Let's see your experiment anyhow," said the Psychologist, "though it's all humbug, you know." The Time Traveller smiled round at us.
Then, still smiling faintly, and with his hands deep in his trousers pockets, he walked slowly out of the room, and we heard his slippers shuffling down the long passage to his laboratory. The Psychologist looked at us.
There was ivory in it, and some transparent crystalline substance.
And now I must be explicit, for this that follows-unless his explanation is to be accepted-is an absolutely unaccountable thing.
He took one of the small octagonal tables that were scattered about the room, and set it in front of the fire, with two legs on the hearthrug.
On this table he placed the mechanism.
Then he drew up a chair, and sat down.
The only other object on the table was a small shaded lamp, the bright light of which fell full upon the model.
There were also perhaps a dozen candles about, two in brass candlesticks upon the mantel and several in sconces, so that the room was brilliantly illuminated.
I sat in a low arm-chair nearest the fire, and I drew this forward so as to be almost between the Time Traveller and the fireplace.
Filby sat behind him, looking over his shoulder.
The Medical Man and the Provincial Mayor watched him in profile from the right, the Psychologist from the left.
The Very Young Man stood behind the Psychologist.
We were all on the alert.
It appears incredible to me that any kind of trick, however subtly conceived and however adroitly done, could have been played upon us under these conditions. The Time Traveller looked at us, and then at the mechanism.
Well?" said the Psychologist. "This little affair," said the Time Traveller, resting his elbows upon the table and pressing his hands together above the apparatus, "is only a model.
It is my plan for a machine to travel through time.
You will notice that it looks singularly askew, and that there is an odd twinkling appearance about this bar, as though it was in some way unreal.
He pointed to the part with his finger.
Also, here is one little white lever, and here is another." The Medical Man got up out of his chair and peered into the thing. "It's beautifully made," he said. "It took two years to make," retorted the Time Traveller.
Then, when we had all imitated the action of the Medical Man, he said: "Now I want you clearly to understand that this lever, being pressed over, sends the machine gliding into the future, and this other reverses the motion.
This saddle represents the seat of a time traveller.
Presently I am going to press the lever, and off the machine will go.
It will vanish, pass into future Time, and disappear.
Have a good look at the thing.
Look at the table too, and satisfy yourselves there is no trickery.
I don't want to waste this model, and then be told I'm a quack." There was a minute's pause perhaps.
The Psychologist seemed about to speak to me, but changed his mind.
Then the Time Traveller put forth his finger towards the lever.
And turning to the Psychologist, he took that individual's hand in his own and told him to put out his forefinger.
So that it was the Psychologist himself who sent forth the model Time Machine on its interminable voyage.
We all saw the lever turn.
I am absolutely certain there was no trickery.
There was a breath of wind, and the lamp flame jumped.
Save for the lamp the table was bare. Everyone was silent for a minute.
Then Filby said he was damned. The Psychologist recovered from his stupor, and suddenly looked under the table.
At that the Time Traveller laughed cheerfully.
Well?" he said, with a reminiscence of the Psychologist.
Then, getting up, he went to the tobacco jar on the mantel, and with his back to us began to fill his pipe. We stared at each other.
Look here," said the Medical Man, "are you in earnest about this?
Do you seriously believe that that machine has travelled into time?" "Certainly," said the Time Traveller, stooping to light a spill at the fire.
It's presentation below the threshold, you know, diluted presentation." "Of course," said the Psychologist, and reassured us.
That's a simple point in psychology.
I should have thought of it.
It's plain enough, and helps the paradox delightfully.
We cannot see it, nor can we appreciate this machine, any more than we can the spoke of a wheel spinning, or a bullet flying through the air.
He passed his hand through the space in which the machine had been.
You see?" he said, laughing. We sat and stared at the vacant table for a minute or so.
Then the Time Traveller asked us what we thought of it all. "It sounds plausible enough tonight," said the Medical Man; "but wait until tomorrow.
Wait for the common sense of the morning." "Would you like to see the Time Machine itself?" asked the Time Traveller.
And therewith, taking the lamp in his hand, he led the way down the long, draughty corridor to his laboratory.
Parts were of nickel, parts of ivory, parts had certainly been filed or sawn out of rock crystal.
The thing was generally complete, but the twisted crystalline bars lay unfinished upon the bench beside some sheets of drawings, and I took one up for a better look at it.
Quartz it seemed to be. "Look here," said the Medical Man, "are you perfectly serious?
Or is this a trick-like that ghost you showed us last Christmas?" "Upon that machine," said the Time Traveller, holding the lamp aloft, "I intend to explore time.
Had Filby shown the model and explained the matter in the Time Traveller's words, we should have shown _him_ far less scepticism.
For we should have perceived his motives: a pork-butcher could understand Filby.
But the Time Traveller had more than a touch of whim among his elements, and we distrusted him.
Things that would have made the fame of a less clever man seemed tricks in his hands.
It is a mistake to do things too easily.
The serious people who took him seriously never felt quite sure of his deportment; they were somehow aware that trusting their reputations for judgment with him was like furnishing a nursery with eggshell china.
For my own part, I was particularly preoccupied with the trick of the model.
That I remember discussing with the Medical Man, whom I met on Friday at the Linnaean.
The Medical Man was standing before the fire with a sheet of paper in one hand and his watch in the other.
I looked round for the Time Traveller, and-"It's half-past seven now," said the Medical Man.
I suppose we'd better have dinner?" "Where's--?" said I, naming our host. "You've just come?
He asks me in this note to lead off with dinner at seven if he's not back.
The other men were Blank, the Editor aforementioned, a certain journalist, and another-a quiet, shy man with a beard-whom I didn't know, and who, as far as my observation went, never opened his mouth all the evening.
There was some speculation at the dinner-table about the Time Traveller's absence, and I suggested time travelling, in a half-jocular spirit.
The Editor wanted that explained to him, and the Psychologist volunteered a wooden account of the "ingenious paradox and trick" we had witnessed that day week.
He was in the midst of his exposition when the door from the corridor opened slowly and without noise.
I was facing the door, and saw it first.
And the door opened wider, and the Time Traveller stood before us.
I gave a cry of surprise.
Good heavens! man, what's the matter?" cried the Medical Man, who saw him next.
And the whole tableful turned towards the door. He was in an amazing plight.
His coat was dusty and dirty, and smeared with green down the sleeves; his hair disordered, and as it seemed to me greyer-either with dust and dirt or because its colour had actually faded.
His face was ghastly pale; his chin had a brown cut on it-a cut half-healed; his expression was haggard and drawn, as by intense suffering.
For a moment he hesitated in the doorway, as if he had been dazzled by the light.
Then he came into the room.
He walked with just such a limp as I have seen in footsore tramps.
We stared at him in silence, expecting him to speak. He said not a word, but came painfully to the table, and made a motion towards the wine.
The Editor filled a glass of champagne, and pushed it towards him.
He drained it, and it seemed to do him good: for he looked round the table, and the ghost of his old smile flickered across his face.
What on earth have you been up to, man?" said the Doctor.
The Time Traveller did not seem to hear.
Don't let me disturb you," he said, with a certain faltering articulation.
He stopped, held out his glass for more, and took it off at a draught. "That's good," he said.
His eyes grew brighter, and a faint colour came into his cheeks.
His glance flickered over our faces with a certain dull approval, and then went round the warm and comfortable room.
Then he spoke again, still as it were feeling his way among his words.
I'm going to wash and dress, and then I'll come down and explain things.... Save me some of that mutton.
I'm starving for a bit of meat." He looked across at the Editor, who was a rare visitor, and hoped he was all right.
The Editor began a question.
Tell you presently," said the Time Traveller.
Be all right in a minute." He put down his glass, and walked towards the staircase door.
Again I remarked his lameness and the soft padding sound of his footfall, and standing up in my place, I saw his feet as he went out.
He had nothing on them but a pair of tattered, blood-stained socks.
Then the door closed upon him.
I had half a mind to follow, till I remembered how he detested any fuss about himself.
For a minute, perhaps, my mind was wool-gathering.
Then, "Remarkable Behaviour of an Eminent Scientist," I heard the Editor say, thinking (after his wont) in headlines.
And this brought my attention back to the bright dinner-table. "What's the game?" said the Journalist.
Has he been doing the Amateur Cadger?
I met the eye of the Psychologist, and read my own interpretation in his face.
I thought of the Time Traveller limping painfully upstairs.
I don't think anyone else had noticed his lameness. The first to recover completely from this surprise was the Medical Man, who rang the bell-the Time Traveller hated to have servants waiting at dinner-for a hot plate.
At that the Editor turned to his knife and fork with a grunt, and the Silent Man followed suit.
The dinner was resumed. Conversation was exclamatory for a little while with gaps of wonderment; and then the Editor got fervent in his curiosity.
Does our friend eke out his modest income with a crossing? or has he his Nebuchadnezzar phases?" he inquired.
I feel assured it's this business of the Time Machine," I said, and took up the Psychologist's account of our previous meeting.
The new guests were frankly incredulous.
What _was_ this time travelling?
A man couldn't cover himself with dust by rolling in a paradox, could he?" And then, as the idea came home to him, he resorted to caricature. Hadn't they any clothes-brushes in the Future?
The Journalist too, would not believe at any price, and joined the Editor in the easy work of heaping ridicule on the whole thing.
They were both the new kind of journalist-very joyous, irreverent young men.
Our Special Correspondent in the Day after Tomorrow reports," the Journalist was saying-or rather shouting-when the Time Traveller came back.
Tell us all about little Rosebery, will you?
What will you take for the lot?" The Time Traveller came to the place reserved for him without a word. He smiled quietly, in his old way.
Where's my mutton?" he said.
What a treat it is to stick a fork into meat again!" "Story!" cried the Editor. "Story be damned!" said the Time Traveller.
I want something to eat.
I won't say a word until I get some peptone into my arteries.
And the salt." "One word," said I.
Have you been time travelling?" "Yes," said the Time Traveller, with his mouth full, nodding his head. "I'd give a shilling a line for a verbatim note," said the Editor.
The Time Traveller pushed his glass towards the Silent Man and rang it with his fingernail; at which the Silent Man, who had been staring at his face, started convulsively, and poured him wine.
The rest of the dinner was uncomfortable.
For my own part, sudden questions kept on rising to my lips, and I dare say it was the same with the others.
The Journalist tried to relieve the tension by telling anecdotes of Hettie Potter.
The Time Traveller devoted his attention to his dinner, and displayed the appetite of a tramp.
The Medical Man smoked a cigarette, and watched the Time Traveller through his eyelashes.
The Silent Man seemed even more clumsy than usual, and drank champagne with regularity and determination out of sheer nervousness.
At last the Time Traveller pushed his plate away, and looked round us.
I suppose I must apologise," he said.
I've had a most amazing time.
He reached out his hand for a cigar, and cut the end.
But come into the smoking-room.
It's too long a story to tell over greasy plates.
I don't mind telling you the story, but I can't argue.
I will," he went on, "tell you the story of what has happened to me, if you like, but you must refrain from interruptions.
I want to tell it.
Most of it will sound like lying.
It's true-every word of it, all the same.
I was in my laboratory at four o'clock, and since then ... I've lived eight days ... such days as no human being ever lived before!
I'm nearly worn out, but I shan't sleep till I've told this thing over to you.
Then I shall go to bed.
Is it agreed?" "Agreed," said the Editor, and the rest of us echoed "Agreed.
And with that the Time Traveller began his story as I have set it forth.
He sat back in his chair at first, and spoke like a weary man.
Afterwards he got more animated.
In writing it down I feel with only too much keenness the inadequacy of pen and ink-and, above all, my own inadequacy-to express its quality.
You read, I will suppose, attentively enough; but you cannot see the speaker's white, sincere face in the bright circle of the little lamp, nor hear the intonation of his voice.
You cannot know how his expression followed the turns of his story!
Most of us hearers were in shadow, for the candles in the smoking-room had not been lighted, and only the face of the Journalist and the legs of the Silent Man from the knees downward were illuminated.
At first we glanced now and again at each other.
There it is now, a little travel-worn, truly; and one of the ivory bars is cracked, and a brass rail bent; but the rest of it's sound enough.
It was at ten o'clock today that the first of all Time Machines began its career.
I gave it a last tap, tried all the screws again, put one more drop of oil on the quartz rod, and sat myself in the saddle.
I suppose a suicide who holds a pistol to his skull feels much the same wonder at what will come next as I felt then.
I took the starting lever in one hand and the stopping one in the other, pressed the first, and almost immediately the second.
I seemed to reel; I felt a nightmare sensation of falling; and, looking round, I saw the laboratory exactly as before. Had anything happened?
For a moment I suspected that my intellect had tricked me.
Then I noted the clock.
The laboratory got hazy and went dark. Mrs. Watchett came in and walked, apparently without seeing me, towards the garden door.
I suppose it took her a minute or so to traverse the place, but to me she seemed to shoot across the room like a rocket.
I pressed the lever over to its extreme position.
The night came like the turning out of a lamp, and in another moment came tomorrow.
The laboratory grew faint and hazy, then fainter and ever fainter.
Tomorrow night came black, then day again, night again, day again, faster and faster still.
An eddying murmur filled my ears, and a strange, dumb confusedness descended on my mind. "I am afraid I cannot convey the peculiar sensations of time travelling.
There is a feeling exactly like that one has upon a switchback-of a helpless headlong motion!
I felt the same horrible anticipation, too, of an imminent smash.
As I put on pace, night followed day like the flapping of a black wing.
The dim suggestion of the laboratory seemed presently to fall away from me, and I saw the sun hopping swiftly across the sky, leaping it every minute, and every minute marking a day.
I supposed the laboratory had been destroyed and I had come into the open air.
I had a dim impression of scaffolding, but I was already going too fast to be conscious of any moving things.
The slowest snail that ever crawled dashed by too fast for me.
The twinkling succession of darkness and light was excessively painful to the eye.
Then, in the intermittent darknesses, I saw the moon spinning swiftly through her quarters from new to full, and had a faint glimpse of the circling stars.
I was still on the hillside upon which this house now stands, and the shoulder rose above me grey and dim.
I saw trees growing and changing like puffs of vapour, now brown, now green; they grew, spread, shivered, and passed away.
I saw huge buildings rise up faint and fair, and pass like dreams.
The whole surface of the earth seemed changed-melting and flowing under my eyes. The little hands upon the dials that registered my speed raced round faster and faster.
They merged at last into a kind of hysterical exhilaration.
I remarked, indeed, a clumsy swaying of the machine, for which I was unable to account.
But my mind was too confused to attend to it, so with a kind of madness growing upon me, I flung myself into futurity.
At first I scarce thought of stopping, scarce thought of anything but these new sensations.
But presently a fresh series of impressions grew up in my mind-a certain curiosity and therewith a certain dread-until at last they took complete possession of me.
What strange developments of humanity, what wonderful advances upon our rudimentary civilisation, I thought, might not appear when I came to look nearly into the dim elusive world that raced and fluctuated before my eyes!
I saw great and splendid architecture rising about me, more massive than any buildings of our own time, and yet, as it seemed, built of glimmer and mist.
I saw a richer green flow up the hillside, and remain there, without any wintry intermission.
Even through the veil of my confusion the earth seemed very fair.
And so my mind came round to the business of stopping. "The peculiar risk lay in the possibility of my finding some substance in the space which I, or the machine, occupied.
So long as I travelled at a high velocity through time, this scarcely mattered: I was, so to speak, attenuated-was slipping like a vapour through the interstices of intervening substances!
This possibility had occurred to me again and again while I was making the machine; but then I had cheerfully accepted it as an unavoidable risk-one of the risks a man has got to take!
Now the risk was inevitable, I no longer saw it in the same cheerful light.
The fact is that, insensibly, the absolute strangeness of everything, the sickly jarring and swaying of the machine, above all, the feeling of prolonged falling, had absolutely upset my nerves.
I told myself that I could never stop, and with a gust of petulance I resolved to stop forthwith.
Like an impatient fool, I lugged over the lever, and incontinently the thing went reeling over, and I was flung headlong through the air. "There was the sound of a clap of thunder in my ears.
I may have been stunned for a moment.
A pitiless hail was hissing round me, and I was sitting on soft turf in front of the overset machine.
Everything still seemed grey, but presently I remarked that the confusion in my ears was gone.
I was on what seemed to be a little lawn in a garden, surrounded by rhododendron bushes, and I noticed that their mauve and purple blossoms were dropping in a shower under the beating of the hailstones.
The rebounding, dancing hail hung in a little cloud over the machine, and drove along the ground like smoke.
In a moment I was wet to the skin.
Fine hospitality,' said I, 'to a man who has travelled innumerable years to see you.' "Presently I thought what a fool I was to get wet.
I stood up and looked round me.
A colossal figure, carved apparently in some white stone, loomed indistinctly beyond the rhododendrons through the hazy downpour.
But all else of the world was invisible. "My sensations would be hard to describe.
As the columns of hail grew thinner, I saw the white figure more distinctly.
It was very large, for a silver birch-tree touched its shoulder.
It was of white marble, in shape something like a winged sphinx, but the wings, instead of being carried vertically at the sides, were spread so that it seemed to hover.
The pedestal, it appeared to me, was of bronze, and was thick with verdigris.
It chanced that the face was towards me; the sightless eyes seemed to watch me; there was the faint shadow of a smile on the lips.
It was greatly weather-worn, and that imparted an unpleasant suggestion of disease.
I stood looking at it for a little space-half a minute, perhaps, or half an hour.
It seemed to advance and to recede as the hail drove before it denser or thinner.
What might appear when that hazy curtain was altogether withdrawn?
What might not have happened to men? What if cruelty had grown into a common passion?
What if in this interval the race had lost its manliness, and had developed into something inhuman, unsympathetic, and overwhelmingly powerful?
I was seized with a panic fear.
I turned frantically to the Time Machine, and strove hard to readjust it.
As I did so the shafts of the sun smote through the thunderstorm.
The grey downpour was swept aside and vanished like the trailing garments of a ghost.
Above me, in the intense blue of the summer sky, some faint brown shreds of cloud whirled into nothingness.
The great buildings about me stood out clear and distinct, shining with the wet of the thunderstorm, and picked out in white by the unmelted hailstones piled along their courses.
I felt naked in a strange world.
I felt as perhaps a bird may feel in the clear air, knowing the hawk wings above and will swoop.
My fear grew to frenzy.
I took a breathing space, set my teeth, and again grappled fiercely, wrist and knee, with the machine.
It gave under my desperate onset and turned over.
It struck my chin violently. One hand on the saddle, the other on the lever, I stood panting heavily in attitude to mount again. "But with this recovery of a prompt retreat my courage recovered.
I looked more curiously and less fearfully at this world of the remote future.
In a circular opening, high up in the wall of the nearer house, I saw a group of figures clad in rich soft robes.
They had seen me, and their faces were directed towards me. "Then I heard voices approaching me.
Coming through the bushes by the White Sphinx were the heads and shoulders of men running.
One of these emerged in a pathway leading straight to the little lawn upon which I stood with my machine.
Noticing that, I noticed for the first time how warm the air was. "He struck me as being a very beautiful and graceful creature, but indescribably frail.
His flushed face reminded me of the more beautiful kind of consumptive-that hectic beauty of which we used to hear so much.
At the sight of him I suddenly regained confidence.
I took my hands from the machine. V. In the Golden Age "In another moment we were standing face to face, I and this fragile thing out of futurity.
He came straight up to me and laughed into my eyes.
The absence from his bearing of any sign of fear struck me at once.
One of them addressed me.
It came into my head, oddly enough, that my voice was too harsh and deep for them.
So I shook my head, and, pointing to my ears, shook it again.
He came a step forward, hesitated, and then touched my hand.
Then I felt other soft little tentacles upon my back and shoulders.
They wanted to make sure I was real.
There was nothing in this at all alarming.
Indeed, there was something in these pretty little people that inspired confidence-a graceful gentleness, a certain childlike ease.
And besides, they looked so frail that I could fancy myself flinging the whole dozen of them about like ninepins.
But I made a sudden motion to warn them when I saw their little pink hands feeling at the Time Machine.
Then I turned again to see what I could do in the way of communication. "And then, looking more nearly into their features, I saw some further peculiarities in their Dresden china type of prettiness.
Their hair, which was uniformly curly, came to a sharp end at the neck and cheek; there was not the faintest suggestion of it on the face, and their ears were singularly minute.
The mouths were small, with bright red, rather thin lips, and the little chins ran to a point.
I pointed to the Time Machine and to myself.
The question had come into my mind abruptly: were these creatures fools?
You may hardly understand how it took me.
You see, I had always anticipated that the people of the year Eight Hundred and Two Thousand odd would be incredibly in front of us in knowledge, art, everything.
Then one of them suddenly asked me a question that showed him to be on the intellectual level of one of our five-year-old children-asked me, in fact, if I had come from the sun in a thunderstorm!
It let loose the judgment I had suspended upon their clothes, their frail light limbs, and fragile features.
A flow of disappointment rushed across my mind.
For a moment I felt that I had built the Time Machine in vain. "I nodded, pointed to the sun, and gave them such a vivid rendering of a thunderclap as startled them.
They all withdrew a pace or so and bowed.
Then came one laughing towards me, carrying a chain of beautiful flowers altogether new to me, and put it about my neck.
The idea was received with melodious applause; and presently they were all running to and fro for flowers, and laughingly flinging them upon me until I was almost smothered with blossom.
You who have never seen the like can scarcely imagine what delicate and wonderful flowers countless years of culture had created.
I was naturally most occupied with the growing crowd of little people, and with the big open portals that yawned before me shadowy and mysterious.
My general impression of the world I saw over their heads was a tangled waste of beautiful bushes and flowers, a long neglected and yet weedless garden.
I saw a number of tall spikes of strange white flowers, measuring a foot perhaps across the spread of the waxen petals.
They grew scattered, as if wild, among the variegated shrubs, but, as I say, I did not examine them closely at this time.
The roof was in shadow, and the windows, partially glazed with coloured glass and partially unglazed, admitted a tempered light.
Transverse to the length were innumerable tables made of slabs of polished stone, raised, perhaps, a foot from the floor, and upon these were heaps of fruits.
Some I recognised as a kind of hypertrophied raspberry and orange, but for the most part they were strange. "Between the tables was scattered a great number of cushions.
I was not loath to follow their example, for I felt thirsty and hungry.
And it caught my eye that the corner of the marble table near me was fractured.
Nevertheless, the general effect was extremely rich and picturesque.
There were, perhaps, a couple of hundred people dining in the hall, and most of them, seated as near to me as they could come, were watching me with interest, their little eyes shining over the fruit they were eating.
All were clad in the same soft, and yet strong, silky material. "Fruit, by the bye, was all their diet.
These people of the remote future were strict vegetarians, and while I was with them, in spite of some carnal cravings, I had to be frugivorous also.
Indeed, I found afterwards that horses, cattle, sheep, dogs, had followed the Ichthyosaurus into extinction.
But the fruits were very delightful; one, in particular, that seemed to be in season all the time I was there-a floury thing in a three-sided husk-was especially good, and I made it my staple.
At first I was puzzled by all these strange fruits, and by the strange flowers I saw, but later I began to perceive their import. "However, I am telling you of my fruit dinner in the distant future now.
So soon as my appetite was a little checked, I determined to make a resolute attempt to learn the speech of these new men of mine. Clearly that was the next thing to do.
The fruits seemed a convenient thing to begin upon, and holding one of these up I began a series of interrogative sounds and gestures.
I had some considerable difficulty in conveying my meaning.
At first my efforts met with a stare of surprise or inextinguishable laughter, but presently a fair-haired little creature seemed to grasp my intention and repeated a name.
They would come to me with eager cries of astonishment, like children, but, like children they would soon stop examining me, and wander away after some other toy.
The dinner and my conversational beginnings ended, I noted for the first time that almost all those who had surrounded me at first were gone.
It is odd, too, how speedily I came to disregard these little people.
I went out through the portal into the sunlit world again as soon as my hunger was satisfied.
Everything was so entirely different from the world I had known-even the flowers.
The big building I had left was situated on the slope of a broad river valley, but the Thames had shifted, perhaps, a mile from its present position.
It was evidently the derelict remains of some vast structure, to what end built I could not determine.
I looked at the half-dozen little figures that were following me.
Then, in a flash, I perceived that all had the same form of costume, the same soft hairless visage, and the same girlish rotundity of limb.
It may seem strange, perhaps, that I had not noticed this before.
But everything was so strange.
Now, I saw the fact plainly enough.
In costume, and in all the differences of texture and bearing that now mark off the sexes from each other, these people of the future were alike.
And the children seemed to my eyes to be but the miniatures of their parents.
We see some beginnings of this even in our own time, and in this future age it was complete.
This, I must remind you, was my speculation at the time.
Later, I was to appreciate how far it fell short of the reality. "While I was musing upon these things, my attention was attracted by a pretty little structure, like a well under a cupola.
I thought in a transitory way of the oddness of wells still existing, and then resumed the thread of my speculations.
There were no large buildings towards the top of the hill, and as my walking powers were evidently miraculous, I was presently left alone for the first time.
I sat down on it, and I surveyed the broad view of our old world under the sunset of that long day.
It was as sweet and fair a view as I have ever seen.
The sun had already gone below the horizon and the west was flaming gold, touched with some horizontal bars of purple and crimson.
Below was the valley of the Thames, in which the river lay like a band of burnished steel.
I have already spoken of the great palaces dotted about among the variegated greenery, some in ruins and some still occupied.
Here and there rose a white or silvery figure in the waste garden of the earth, here and there came the sharp vertical line of some cupola or obelisk.
The ruddy sunset set me thinking of the sunset of mankind.
For the first time I began to realise an odd consequence of the social effort in which we are at present engaged.
And yet, come to think, it is a logical consequence enough.
Strength is the outcome of need; security sets a premium on feebleness.
The work of ameliorating the conditions of life-the true civilising process that makes life more and more secure-had gone steadily on to a climax.
One triumph of a united humanity over Nature had followed another.
Things that are now mere dreams had become projects deliberately put in hand and carried forward.
And the harvest was what I saw! "After all, the sanitation and the agriculture of today are still in the rudimentary stage.
The science of our time has attacked but a little department of the field of human disease, but, even so, it spreads its operations very steadily and persistently.
Our agriculture and horticulture destroy a weed just here and there and cultivate perhaps a score or so of wholesome plants, leaving the greater number to fight out a balance as they can.
We improve our favourite plants and animals-and how few they are-gradually by selective breeding; now a new and better peach, now a seedless grape, now a sweeter and larger flower, now a more convenient breed of cattle.
We improve them gradually, because our ideals are vague and tentative, and our knowledge is very limited; because Nature, too, is shy and slow in our clumsy hands.
Some day all this will be better organised, and still better.
That is the drift of the current in spite of the eddies.
The whole world will be intelligent, educated, and co-operating; things will move faster and faster towards the subjugation of Nature.
The air was free from gnats, the earth from weeds or fungi; everywhere were fruits and sweet and delightful flowers; brilliant butterflies flew hither and thither.
The ideal of preventive medicine was attained.
Diseases had been stamped out.
I saw no evidence of any contagious diseases during all my stay.
And I shall have to tell you later that even the processes of putrefaction and decay had been profoundly affected by these changes. "Social triumphs, too, had been effected.
I saw mankind housed in splendid shelters, gloriously clothed, and as yet I had found them engaged in no toil.
There were no signs of struggle, neither social nor economical struggle.
The shop, the advertisement, traffic, all that commerce which constitutes the body of our world, was gone.
It was natural on that golden evening that I should jump at the idea of a social paradise.
The difficulty of increasing population had been met, I guessed, and population had ceased to increase. "But with this change in condition comes inevitably adaptations to the change.
What, unless biological science is a mass of errors, is the cause of human intelligence and vigour?
For after the battle comes Quiet.
Humanity had been strong, energetic, and intelligent, and had used all its abundant vitality to alter the conditions under which it lived.
And now came the reaction of the altered conditions. "Under the new conditions of perfect comfort and security, that restless energy, that with us is strength, would become weakness.
Even in our own time certain tendencies and desires, once necessary to survival, are a constant source of failure.
Physical courage and the love of battle, for instance, are no great help-may even be hindrances-to a civilised man.
And in a state of physical balance and security, power, intellectual as well as physical, would be out of place.
For countless years I judged there had been no danger of war or solitary violence, no danger from wild beasts, no wasting disease to require strength of constitution, no need of toil.
For such a life, what we should call the weak are as well equipped as the strong, are indeed no longer weak.
Better equipped indeed they are, for the strong would be fretted by an energy for which there was no outlet.
This has ever been the fate of energy in security; it takes to art and to eroticism, and then come languor and decay. "Even this artistic impetus would at last die away-had almost died in the Time I saw.
To adorn themselves with flowers, to dance, to sing in the sunlight: so much was left of the artistic spirit, and no more. Even that would fade in the end into a contented inactivity.
Possibly the checks they had devised for the increase of population had succeeded too well, and their numbers had rather diminished than kept stationary.
That would account for the abandoned ruins.
The bright little figures ceased to move about below, a noiseless owl flitted by, and I shivered with the chill of the night.
I determined to descend and find where I could sleep. "I looked for the building I knew.
Then my eye travelled along to the figure of the White Sphinx upon the pedestal of bronze, growing distinct as the light of the rising moon grew brighter.
I could see the silver birch against it.
There was the tangle of rhododendron bushes, black in the pale light, and there was the little lawn.
I looked at the lawn again.
A queer doubt chilled my complacency.
No,' said I stoutly to myself, 'that was not the lawn.' "But it _was_ the lawn.
For the white leprous face of the sphinx was towards it.
Can you imagine what I felt as this conviction came home to me?
The Time Machine was gone! "At once, like a lash across the face, came the possibility of losing my own age, of being left helpless in this strange new world.
The bare thought of it was an actual physical sensation.
I could feel it grip me at the throat and stop my breathing.
All the time I ran I was saying to myself: 'They have moved it a little, pushed it under the bushes out of the way.
Nevertheless, I ran with all my might.
All the time, with the certainty that sometimes comes with excessive dread, I knew that such assurance was folly, knew instinctively that the machine was removed out of my reach.
My breath came with pain.
I suppose I covered the whole distance from the hill crest to the little lawn, two miles perhaps, in ten minutes.
And I am not a young man.
I cursed aloud, as I ran, at my confident folly in leaving the machine, wasting good breath thereby.
I cried aloud, and none answered.
Not a creature seemed to be stirring in that moonlit world. "When I reached the lawn my worst fears were realised.
Not a trace of the thing was to be seen.
I felt faint and cold when I faced the empty space among the black tangle of bushes.
I ran round it furiously, as if the thing might be hidden in a corner, and then stopped abruptly, with my hands clutching my hair.
Above me towered the sphinx, upon the bronze pedestal, white, shining, leprous, in the light of the rising moon.
It seemed to smile in mockery of my dismay. "I might have consoled myself by imagining the little people had put the mechanism in some shelter for me, had I not felt assured of their physical and intellectual inadequacy.
That is what dismayed me: the sense of some hitherto unsuspected power, through whose intervention my invention had vanished.
Yet, for one thing I felt assured: unless some other age had produced its exact duplicate, the machine could not have moved in time.
The attachment of the levers-I will show you the method later-prevented anyone from tampering with it in that way when they were removed.
It had moved, and was hid, only in space.
But then, where could it be? "I think I must have had a kind of frenzy.
I remember running violently in and out among the moonlit bushes all round the sphinx, and startling some white animal that, in the dim light, I took for a small deer.
The big hall was dark, silent, and deserted.
I slipped on the uneven floor, and fell over one of the malachite tables, almost breaking my shin.
I lit a match and went on past the dusty curtains, of which I have told you. "There I found a second great hall covered with cushions, upon which, perhaps, a score or so of the little people were sleeping.
I have no doubt they found my second appearance strange enough, coming suddenly out of the quiet darkness with inarticulate noises and the splutter and flare of a match.
For they had forgotten about matches.
Where is my Time Machine?
I began, bawling like an angry child, laying hands upon them and shaking them up together.
It must have been very queer to them.
Some laughed, most of them looked sorely frightened.
When I saw them standing round me, it came into my head that I was doing as foolish a thing as it was possible for me to do under the circumstances, in trying to revive the sensation of fear.
For, reasoning from their daylight behaviour, I thought that fear must be forgotten. "Abruptly, I dashed down the match, and knocking one of the people over in my course, went blundering across the big dining-hall again, out under the moonlight.
I heard cries of terror and their little feet running and stumbling this way and that.
I do not remember all I did as the moon crept up the sky.
I suppose it was the unexpected nature of my loss that maddened me.
I felt hopelessly cut off from my own kind-a strange animal in an unknown world.
I must have raved to and fro, screaming and crying upon God and Fate.
I had nothing left but misery.
Then things came clear in my mind.
With the plain, reasonable daylight, I could look my circumstances fairly in the face.
I saw the wild folly of my frenzy overnight, and I could reason with myself. 'Suppose the worst?
Suppose the machine altogether lost-perhaps destroyed?
That would be my only hope, a poor hope, perhaps, but better than despair.
And, after all, it was a beautiful and curious world. "But probably the machine had only been taken away.
Still, I must be calm and patient, find its hiding-place, and recover it by force or cunning.
And with that I scrambled to my feet and looked about me, wondering where I could bathe.
I felt weary, stiff, and travel-soiled. The freshness of the morning made me desire an equal freshness.
I had exhausted my emotion.
Indeed, as I went about my business, I found myself wondering at my intense excitement overnight.
I made a careful examination of the ground about the little lawn.
I wasted some time in futile questionings, conveyed, as well as I was able, to such of the little people as came by.
They all failed to understand my gestures; some were simply stolid, some thought it was a jest and laughed at me. I had the hardest task in the world to keep my hands off their pretty laughing faces.
It was a foolish impulse, but the devil begotten of fear and blind anger was ill curbed and still eager to take advantage of my perplexity.
The turf gave better counsel.
This directed my closer attention to the pedestal.
It was, as I think I have said, of bronze. It was not a mere block, but highly decorated with deep framed panels on either side.
I went and rapped at these.
The pedestal was hollow. Examining the panels with care I found them discontinuous with the frames.
There were no handles or keyholes, but possibly the panels, if they were doors, as I supposed, opened from within.
One thing was clear enough to my mind.
It took no very great mental effort to infer that my Time Machine was inside that pedestal.
But how it got there was a different problem. "I saw the heads of two orange-clad people coming through the bushes and under some blossom-covered apple-trees towards me.
I turned smiling to them, and beckoned them to me.
They came, and then, pointing to the bronze pedestal, I tried to intimate my wish to open it.
But at my first gesture towards this they behaved very oddly.
I don't know how to convey their expression to you.
Suppose you were to use a grossly improper gesture to a delicate-minded woman-it is how she would look. They went off as if they had received the last possible insult.
I tried a sweet-looking little chap in white next, with exactly the same result.
Somehow, his manner made me feel ashamed of myself.
But, as you know, I wanted the Time Machine, and I tried him once more.
As he turned off, like the others, my temper got the better of me.
In three strides I was after him, had him by the loose part of his robe round the neck, and began dragging him towards the sphinx.
Then I saw the horror and repugnance of his face, and all of a sudden I let him go. "But I was not beaten yet.
I banged with my fist at the bronze panels. I thought I heard something stir inside-to be explicit, I thought I heard a sound like a chuckle-but I must have been mistaken.
Then I got a big pebble from the river, and came and hammered till I had flattened a coil in the decorations, and the verdigris came off in powdery flakes.
The delicate little people must have heard me hammering in gusty outbreaks a mile away on either hand, but nothing came of it.
I saw a crowd of them upon the slopes, looking furtively at me.
At last, hot and tired, I sat down to watch the place.
But I was too restless to watch long; I am too Occidental for a long vigil.
I could work at a problem for years, but to wait inactive for twenty-four hours-that is another matter. "I got up after a time, and began walking aimlessly through the bushes towards the hill again.
Patience,' said I to myself.
If you want your machine again you must leave that sphinx alone.
Learn its ways, watch it, be careful of too hasty guesses at its meaning.
In the end you will find clues to it all.
Then suddenly the humour of the situation came into my mind: the thought of the years I had spent in study and toil to get into the future age, and now my passion of anxiety to get out of it.
I had made myself the most complicated and the most hopeless trap that ever a man devised.
Although it was at my own expense, I could not help myself.
I laughed aloud. "Going through the big palace, it seemed to me that the little people avoided me.
It may have been my fancy, or it may have had something to do with my hammering at the gates of bronze.
Yet I felt tolerably sure of the avoidance.
I was careful, however, to show no concern and to abstain from any pursuit of them, and in the course of a day or two things got back to the old footing.
Their sentences were usually simple and of two words, and I failed to convey or understand any but the simplest propositions.
From every hill I climbed I saw the same abundance of splendid buildings, endlessly varied in material and style, the same clustering thickets of evergreens, the same blossom-laden trees and tree ferns.
Here and there water shone like silver, and beyond, the land rose into blue undulating hills, and so faded into the serenity of the sky.
A peculiar feature, which presently attracted my attention, was the presence of certain circular wells, several, as it seemed to me, of a very great depth.
One lay by the path up the hill which I had followed during my first walk.
Like the others, it was rimmed with bronze, curiously wrought, and protected by a little cupola from the rain.
Sitting by the side of these wells, and peering down into the shafted darkness, I could see no gleam of water, nor could I start any reflection with a lighted match.
But in all of them I heard a certain sound: a thud-thud-thud, like the beating of some big engine; and I discovered, from the flaring of my matches, that a steady current of air set down the shafts.
Putting things together, I reached a strong suggestion of an extensive system of subterranean ventilation, whose true import it was difficult to imagine.
I was at first inclined to associate it with the sanitary apparatus of these people.
It was an obvious conclusion, but it was absolutely wrong. "And here I must admit that I learnt very little of drains and bells and modes of conveyance, and the like conveniences, during my time in this real future.
In some of these visions of Utopias and coming times which I have read, there is a vast amount of detail about building, and social arrangements, and so forth.
But while such details are easy enough to obtain when the whole world is contained in one's imagination, they are altogether inaccessible to a real traveller amid such realities as I found here.
Conceive the tale of London which a negro, fresh from Central Africa, would take back to his tribe!
What would he know of railway companies, of social movements, of telephone and telegraph wires, of the Parcels Delivery Company, and postal orders and the like?
Yet we, at least, should be willing enough to explain these things to him!
And even of what he knew, how much could he make his untravelled friend either apprehend or believe?
Then, think how narrow the gap between a negro and a white man of our own times, and how wide the interval between myself and these of the Golden Age!
But it occurred to me that, possibly, there might be cemeteries (or crematoria) somewhere beyond the range of my explorings.
This, again, was a question I deliberately put to myself, and my curiosity was at first entirely defeated upon the point.
Yet I could think of no other.
Let me put my difficulties.
The several big palaces I had explored were mere living places, great dining-halls and sleeping apartments.
I could find no machinery, no appliances of any kind.
Yet these people were clothed in pleasant fabrics that must at times need renewal, and their sandals, though undecorated, were fairly complex specimens of metalwork.
Somehow such things must be made.
And the little people displayed no vestige of a creative tendency.
There were no shops, no workshops, no sign of importations among them.
They spent all their time in playing gently, in bathing in the river, in making love in a half-playful fashion, in eating fruit and sleeping.
Those waterless wells, too, those flickering pillars.
I felt I lacked a clue.
I felt-how shall I put it? Suppose you found an inscription, with sentences here and there in excellent plain English, and interpolated therewith, others made up of words, of letters even, absolutely unknown to you?
Well, on the third day of my visit, that was how the world of Eight Hundred and Two Thousand Seven Hundred and One presented itself to me! "That day, too, I made a friend-of a sort.
It happened that, as I was watching some of the little people bathing in a shallow, one of them was seized with cramp and began drifting downstream.
When I realised this, I hurriedly slipped off my clothes, and, wading in at a point lower down, I caught the poor mite and drew her safe to land.
A little rubbing of the limbs soon brought her round, and I had the satisfaction of seeing she was all right before I left her.
I had got to such a low estimate of her kind that I did not expect any gratitude from her.
In that, however, I was wrong. "This happened in the morning.
The thing took my imagination.
Very possibly I had been feeling desolate. At any rate I did my best to display my appreciation of the gift.
We were soon seated together in a little stone arbour, engaged in conversation, chiefly of smiles.
The creature's friendliness affected me exactly as a child's might have done.
We passed each other flowers, and she kissed my hands.
I did the same to hers.
Then I tried talk, and found that her name was Weena, which, though I don't know what it meant, somehow seemed appropriate enough.
That was the beginning of a queer friendship which lasted a week, and ended-as I will tell you! "She was exactly like a child.
She wanted to be with me always.
She tried to follow me everywhere, and on my next journey out and about it went to my heart to tire her down, and leave her at last, exhausted and calling after me rather plaintively.
But the problems of the world had to be mastered.
I had not, I said to myself, come into the future to carry on a miniature flirtation.
Yet her distress when I left her was very great, her expostulations at the parting were sometimes frantic, and I think, altogether, I had as much trouble as comfort from her devotion.
Nevertheless she was, somehow, a very great comfort.
I thought it was mere childish affection that made her cling to me.
Until it was too late, I did not clearly know what I had inflicted upon her when I left her.
Nor until it was too late did I clearly understand what she was to me.
She was fearless enough in the daylight, and she had the oddest confidence in me; for once, in a foolish moment, I made threatening grimaces at her, and she simply laughed at them.
But she dreaded the dark, dreaded shadows, dreaded black things.
Darkness to her was the one thing dreadful.
It was a singularly passionate emotion, and it set me thinking and observing.
I discovered then, among other things, that these little people gathered into the great houses after dark, and slept in droves.
To enter upon them without a light was to put them into a tumult of apprehension.
I never found one out of doors, or one sleeping alone within doors, after dark.
But my story slips away from me as I speak of her.
It must have been the night before her rescue that I was awakened about dawn.
I had been restless, dreaming most disagreeably that I was drowned, and that sea anemones were feeling over my face with their soft palps.
I woke with a start, and with an odd fancy that some greyish animal had just rushed out of the chamber.
I tried to get to sleep again, but I felt restless and uncomfortable.
It was that dim grey hour when things are just creeping out of darkness, when everything is colourless and clear cut, and yet unreal.
I got up, and went down into the great hall, and so out upon the flagstones in front of the palace.
I thought I would make a virtue of necessity, and see the sunrise. "The moon was setting, and the dying moonlight and the first pallor of dawn were mingled in a ghastly half-light.
The bushes were inky black, the ground a sombre grey, the sky colourless and cheerless.
And up the hill I thought I could see ghosts.
Three several times, as I scanned the slope, I saw white figures.
Twice I fancied I saw a solitary white, ape-like creature running rather quickly up the hill, and once near the ruins I saw a leash of them carrying some dark body.
I did not see what became of them.
It seemed that they vanished among the bushes.
The dawn was still indistinct, you must understand.
I was feeling that chill, uncertain, early-morning feeling you may have known.
I doubted my eyes. "As the eastern sky grew brighter, and the light of the day came on and its vivid colouring returned upon the world once more, I scanned the view keenly.
But I saw no vestige of my white figures.
They were mere creatures of the half-light.
They must have been ghosts,' I said; 'I wonder whence they dated.
For a queer notion of Grant Allen's came into my head, and amused me.
If each generation die and leave ghosts, he argued, the world at last will get overcrowded with them.
On that theory they would have grown innumerable some Eight Hundred Thousand Years hence, and it was no great wonder to see four at once.
But the jest was unsatisfying, and I was thinking of these figures all the morning, until Weena's rescue drove them out of my head.
I associated them in some indefinite way with the white animal I had startled in my first passionate search for the Time Machine.
But Weena was a pleasant substitute.
Yet all the same, they were soon destined to take far deadlier possession of my mind. "I think I have said how much hotter than our own was the weather of this Golden Age.
I cannot account for it.
It may be that the sun was hotter, or the earth nearer the sun. It is usual to assume that the sun will go on cooling steadily in the future.
But people, unfamiliar with such speculations as those of the younger Darwin, forget that the planets must ultimately fall back one by one into the parent body.
As these catastrophes occur, the sun will blaze with renewed energy; and it may be that some inner planet had suffered this fate.
Clambering among these heaps of masonry, I found a narrow gallery, whose end and side windows were blocked by fallen masses of stone.
By contrast with the brilliancy outside, it seemed at first impenetrably dark to me.
I entered it groping, for the change from light to blackness made spots of colour swim before me.
A pair of eyes, luminous by reflection against the daylight without, was watching me out of the darkness. "The old instinctive dread of wild beasts came upon me.
I clenched my hands and steadfastly looked into the glaring eyeballs.
I was afraid to turn.
Then the thought of the absolute security in which humanity appeared to be living came to my mind.
And then I remembered that strange terror of the dark.
Overcoming my fear to some extent, I advanced a step and spoke.
I will admit that my voice was harsh and ill-controlled.
I put out my hand and touched something soft.
At once the eyes darted sideways, and something white ran past me.
I turned with my heart in my mouth, and saw a queer little ape-like figure, its head held down in a peculiar manner, running across the sunlit space behind me.
But, as I say, it went too fast for me to see distinctly.
I cannot even say whether it ran on all fours, or only with its forearms held very low.
After an instant's pause I followed it into the second heap of ruins.
I could not find it at first; but, after a time in the profound obscurity, I came upon one of those round well-like openings of which I have told you, half closed by a fallen pillar.
A sudden thought came to me.
Could this Thing have vanished down the shaft?
I lit a match, and, looking down, I saw a small, white, moving creature, with large bright eyes which regarded me steadfastly as it retreated.
It was so like a human spider!
It was clambering down the wall, and now I saw for the first time a number of metal foot and hand rests forming a kind of ladder down the shaft.
Then the light burned my fingers and fell out of my hand, going out as it dropped, and when I had lit another the little monster had disappeared. "I do not know how long I sat peering down that well.
It was not for some time that I could succeed in persuading myself that the thing I had seen was human.
I began to suspect their true import.
And what, I wondered, was this Lemur doing in my scheme of a perfectly balanced organisation?
How was it related to the indolent serenity of the beautiful Overworlders?
And what was hidden down there, at the foot of that shaft?
I sat upon the edge of the well telling myself that, at any rate, there was nothing to fear, and that there I must descend for the solution of my difficulties.
And withal I was absolutely afraid to go! As I hesitated, two of the beautiful upperworld people came running in their amorous sport across the daylight in the shadow.
The male pursued the female, flinging flowers at her as he ran. "They seemed distressed to find me, my arm against the overturned pillar, peering down the well.
Apparently it was considered bad form to remark these apertures; for when I pointed to this one, and tried to frame a question about it in their tongue, they were still more visibly distressed and turned away.
But they were interested by my matches, and I struck some to amuse them.
I tried them again about the well, and again I failed.
So presently I left them, meaning to go back to Weena, and see what I could get from her.
But my mind was already in revolution; my guesses and impressions were slipping and sliding to a new adjustment.
And very vaguely there came a suggestion towards the solution of the economic problem that had puzzled me. "Here was the new view.
Plainly, this second species of Man was subterranean.
There were three circumstances in particular which made me think that its rare emergence above ground was the outcome of a long-continued underground habit.
In the first place, there was the bleached look common in most animals that live largely in the dark-the white fish of the Kentucky caves, for instance.
Then, those large eyes, with that capacity for reflecting light, are common features of nocturnal things-witness the owl and the cat.
The presence of ventilating shafts and wells along the hill slopes-everywhere, in fact, except along the river valley-showed how universal were its ramifications.
What so natural, then, as to assume that it was in this artificial Underworld that such work as was necessary to the comfort of the daylight race was done?
The notion was so plausible that I at once accepted it, and went on to assume the _how_ of this splitting of the human species.
No doubt it will seem grotesque enough to you-and wildly incredible!-and yet even now there are existing circumstances to point that way.
I mean that it had gone deeper and deeper into larger and ever larger underground factories, spending a still-increasing amount of its time therein, till, in the end-!
About London, for instance, perhaps half the prettier country is shut in against intrusion.
So, in the end, above ground you must have the Haves, pursuing pleasure and comfort and beauty, and below ground the Have-nots, the Workers getting continually adapted to the conditions of their labour.
Once they were there, they would no doubt have to pay rent, and not a little of it, for the ventilation of their caverns; and if they refused, they would starve or be suffocated for arrears.
As it seemed to me, the refined beauty and the etiolated pallor followed naturally enough. "The great triumph of Humanity I had dreamed of took a different shape in my mind.
It had been no such triumph of moral education and general co-operation as I had imagined.
Instead, I saw a real aristocracy, armed with a perfected science and working to a logical conclusion the industrial system of today.
Its triumph had not been simply a triumph over Nature, but a triumph over Nature and the fellow-man.
This, I must warn you, was my theory at the time.
I had no convenient cicerone in the pattern of the Utopian books.
My explanation may be absolutely wrong.
I still think it is the most plausible one.
That I could see clearly enough already.
Why had the Morlocks taken my Time Machine?
For I felt sure it was they who had taken it.
Why, too, if the Eloi were masters, could they not restore the machine to me?
And why were they so terribly afraid of the dark?
I proceeded, as I have said, to question Weena about this Underworld, but here again I was disappointed.
At first she would not understand my questions, and presently she refused to answer them.
She shivered as though the topic was unendurable.
And when I pressed her, perhaps a little harshly, she burst into tears.
They were the only tears, except my own, I ever saw in that Golden Age.
When I saw them I ceased abruptly to trouble about the Morlocks, and was only concerned in banishing these signs of her human inheritance from Weena's eyes.
I felt a peculiar shrinking from those pallid bodies.
They were just the half-bleached colour of the worms and things one sees preserved in spirit in a zoological museum.
And they were filthily cold to the touch.
Probably my shrinking was largely due to the sympathetic influence of the Eloi, whose disgust of the Morlocks I now began to appreciate. "The next night I did not sleep well.
Probably my health was a little disordered.
I was oppressed with perplexity and doubt.
Once or twice I had a feeling of intense fear for which I could perceive no definite reason.
I remember creeping noiselessly into the great hall where the little people were sleeping in the moonlight-that night Weena was among them-and feeling reassured by their presence.
And on both these days I had the restless feeling of one who shirks an inevitable duty.
I felt assured that the Time Machine was only to be recovered by boldly penetrating these mysteries of underground.
Yet I could not face the mystery.
If only I had had a companion it would have been different. But I was so horribly alone, and even to clamber down into the darkness of the well appalled me.
I don't know if you will understand my feeling, but I never felt quite safe at my back. "It was this restlessness, this insecurity, perhaps, that drove me farther and farther afield in my exploring expeditions.
Going to the south-westward towards the rising country that is now called Combe Wood, I observed far-off, in the direction of nineteenth-century Banstead, a vast green structure, different in character from any I had hitherto seen.
This difference in aspect suggested a difference in use, and I was minded to push on and explore.
But next morning I perceived clearly enough that my curiosity regarding the Palace of Green Porcelain was a piece of self-deception, to enable me to shirk, by another day, an experience I dreaded.
I resolved I would make the descent without further waste of time, and started out in the early morning towards a well near the ruins of granite and aluminium. "Little Weena ran with me.
She danced beside me to the well, but when she saw me lean over the mouth and look downward, she seemed strangely disconcerted.
Good-bye, little Weena,' I said, kissing her; and then putting her down, I began to feel over the parapet for the climbing hooks.
Rather hastily, I may as well confess, for I feared my courage might leak away!
At first she watched me in amazement.
Then she gave a most piteous cry, and running to me, she began to pull at me with her little hands.
I think her opposition nerved me rather to proceed.
I shook her off, perhaps a little roughly, and in another moment I was in the throat of the well.
I saw her agonised face over the parapet, and smiled to reassure her.
Then I had to look down at the unstable hooks to which I clung. "I had to clamber down a shaft of perhaps two hundred yards.
One of the bars bent suddenly under my weight, and almost swung me off into the blackness beneath.
For a moment I hung by one hand, and after that experience I did not dare to rest again.
Though my arms and back were presently acutely painful, I went on clambering down the sheer descent with as quick a motion as possible.
Glancing upward, I saw the aperture, a small blue disc, in which a star was visible, while little Weena's head showed as a round black projection.
The thudding sound of a machine below grew louder and more oppressive.
Everything save that little disc above was profoundly dark, and when I looked up again Weena had disappeared. "I was in an agony of discomfort.
I had some thought of trying to go up the shaft again, and leave the Underworld alone.
But even while I turned this over in my mind I continued to descend.
At last, with intense relief, I saw dimly coming up, a foot to the right of me, a slender loophole in the wall.
Swinging myself in, I found it was the aperture of a narrow horizontal tunnel in which I could lie down and rest.
It was not too soon.
My arms ached, my back was cramped, and I was trembling with the prolonged terror of a fall.
Besides this, the unbroken darkness had had a distressing effect upon my eyes.
The air was full of the throb and hum of machinery pumping air down the shaft. "I do not know how long I lay.
I was roused by a soft hand touching my face.
Starting up in the darkness I snatched at my matches and, hastily striking one, I saw three stooping white creatures similar to the one I had seen above ground in the ruin, hastily retreating before the light.
Living, as they did, in what appeared to me impenetrable darkness, their eyes were abnormally large and sensitive, just as are the pupils of the abysmal fishes, and they reflected the light in the same way.
I have no doubt they could see me in that rayless obscurity, and they did not seem to have any fear of me apart from the light.
But I said to myself, 'You are in for it now,' and, feeling my way along the tunnel, I found the noise of machinery grow louder.
Presently the walls fell away from me, and I came to a large open space, and striking another match, saw that I had entered a vast arched cavern, which stretched into utter darkness beyond the range of my light.
The view I had of it was as much as one could see in the burning of a match. "Necessarily my memory is vague.
Great shapes like big machines rose out of the dimness, and cast grotesque black shadows, in which dim spectral Morlocks sheltered from the glare.
The place, by the bye, was very stuffy and oppressive, and the faint halitus of freshly-shed blood was in the air.
Some way down the central vista was a little table of white metal, laid with what seemed a meal.
The Morlocks at any rate were carnivorous!
Even at the time, I remember wondering what large animal could have survived to furnish the red joint I saw.
It was all very indistinct: the heavy smell, the big unmeaning shapes, the obscene figures lurking in the shadows, and only waiting for the darkness to come at me again!
Then the match burnt down, and stung my fingers, and fell, a wriggling red spot in the blackness. "I have thought since how particularly ill-equipped I was for such an experience.
When I had started with the Time Machine, I had started with the absurd assumption that the men of the Future would certainly be infinitely ahead of ourselves in all their appliances.
I had come without arms, without medicine, without anything to smoke-at times I missed tobacco frightfully!-even without enough matches.
If only I had thought of a Kodak!
I could have flashed that glimpse of the Underworld in a second, and examined it at leisure.
It had never occurred to me until that moment that there was any need to economise them, and I had wasted almost half the box in astonishing the Overworlders, to whom fire was a novelty.
Now, as I say, I had four left, and while I stood in the dark, a hand touched mine, lank fingers came feeling over my face, and I was sensible of a peculiar unpleasant odour.
I fancied I heard the breathing of a crowd of those dreadful little beings about me.
I felt the box of matches in my hand being gently disengaged, and other hands behind me plucking at my clothing.
The sense of these unseen creatures examining me was indescribably unpleasant.
The sudden realisation of my ignorance of their ways of thinking and doing came home to me very vividly in the darkness.
I shouted at them as loudly as I could.
They started away, and then I could feel them approaching me again.
They clutched at me more boldly, whispering odd sounds to each other.
I shivered violently, and shouted again-rather discordantly.
This time they were not so seriously alarmed, and they made a queer laughing noise as they came back at me.
I will confess I was horribly frightened.
I determined to strike another match and escape under the protection of its glare.
I did so, and eking out the flicker with a scrap of paper from my pocket, I made good my retreat to the narrow tunnel.
I struck another light, and waved it in their dazzled faces.
You can scarce imagine how nauseatingly inhuman they looked-those pale, chinless faces and great, lidless, pinkish-grey eyes!-as they stared in their blindness and bewilderment.
But I did not stay to look, I promise you: I retreated again, and when my second match had ended, I struck my third.
It had almost burnt through when I reached the opening into the shaft.
I lit my last match ... and it incontinently went out.
With the last twenty or thirty feet of it a deadly nausea came upon me.
I had the greatest difficulty in keeping my hold.
The last few yards was a frightful struggle against this faintness.
Several times my head swam, and I felt all the sensations of falling.
At last, however, I got over the well-mouth somehow, and staggered out of the ruin into the blinding sunlight.
I fell upon my face.
Even the soil smelt sweet and clean.
Then I remember Weena kissing my hands and ears, and the voices of others among the Eloi.
Then, for a time, I was insensible. X. When Night Came "Now, indeed, I seemed in a worse case than before.
Hitherto, except during my night's anguish at the loss of the Time Machine, I had felt a sustaining hope of ultimate escape, but that hope was staggered by these new discoveries.
Before, I had felt as a man might feel who had fallen into a pit: my concern was with the pit and how to get out of it.
Now I felt like a beast in a trap, whose enemy would come upon him soon. "The enemy I dreaded may surprise you.
It was the darkness of the new moon.
Weena had put this into my head by some at first incomprehensible remarks about the Dark Nights.
It was not now such a very difficult problem to guess what the coming Dark Nights might mean.
The moon was on the wane: each night there was a longer interval of darkness.
And I now understood to some slight degree at least the reason of the fear of the little Upperworld people for the dark.
I wondered vaguely what foul villainy it might be that the Morlocks did under the new moon.
I felt pretty sure now that my second hypothesis was all wrong.
The Upperworld people might once have been the favoured aristocracy, and the Morlocks their mechanical servants: but that had long since passed away.
The two species that had resulted from the evolution of man were sliding down towards, or had already arrived at, an altogether new relationship.
The Eloi, like the Carlovignan kings, had decayed to a mere beautiful futility.
They still possessed the earth on sufferance: since the Morlocks, subterranean for innumerable generations, had come at last to find the daylit surface intolerable.
And the Morlocks made their garments, I inferred, and maintained them in their habitual needs, perhaps through the survival of an old habit of service.
They did it as a standing horse paws with his foot, or as a man enjoys killing animals in sport: because ancient and departed necessities had impressed it on the organism.
But, clearly, the old order was already in part reversed. The Nemesis of the delicate ones was creeping on apace.
Ages ago, thousands of generations ago, man had thrust his brother man out of the ease and the sunshine.
And now that brother was coming back-changed! Already the Eloi had begun to learn one old lesson anew.
They were becoming reacquainted with Fear.
And suddenly there came into my head the memory of the meat I had seen in the Underworld.
It seemed odd how it floated into my mind: not stirred up as it were by the current of my meditations, but coming in almost like a question from outside.
I tried to recall the form of it.
I had a vague sense of something familiar, but I could not tell what it was at the time. "Still, however helpless the little people in the presence of their mysterious Fear, I was differently constituted.
I came out of this age of ours, this ripe prime of the human race, when Fear does not paralyse and mystery has lost its terrors.
I at least would defend myself. Without further delay I determined to make myself arms and a fastness where I might sleep.
With that refuge as a base, I could face this strange world with some of that confidence I had lost in realising to what creatures night by night I lay exposed.
I felt I could never sleep again until my bed was secure from them.
I shuddered with horror to think how they must already have examined me. "I wandered during the afternoon along the valley of the Thames, but found nothing that commended itself to my mind as inaccessible.
All the buildings and trees seemed easily practicable to such dexterous climbers as the Morlocks, to judge by their wells, must be.
The distance, I had reckoned, was seven or eight miles, but it must have been nearer eighteen.
I had first seen the place on a moist afternoon when distances are deceptively diminished.
In addition, the heel of one of my shoes was loose, and a nail was working through the sole-they were comfortable old shoes I wore about indoors-so that I was lame.
My pockets had always puzzled Weena, but at the last she had concluded that they were an eccentric kind of vases for floral decoration.
At least she utilised them for that purpose.
In changing my jacket I found..." _The Time Traveller paused, put his hand into his pocket, and silently placed two withered flowers, not unlike very large white mallows, upon the little table.
Then he resumed his narrative._ "As the hush of evening crept over the world and we proceeded over the hill crest towards Wimbledon, Weena grew tired and wanted to return to the house of grey stone.
But I pointed out the distant pinnacles of the Palace of Green Porcelain to her, and contrived to make her understand that we were seeking a refuge there from her Fear.
You know that great pause that comes upon things before the dusk?
Even the breeze stops in the trees.
To me there is always an air of expectation about that evening stillness.
The sky was clear, remote, and empty save for a few horizontal bars far down in the sunset.
Well, that night the expectation took the colour of my fears.
In that darkling calm my senses seemed preternaturally sharpened.
I fancied I could even feel the hollowness of the ground beneath my feet: could, indeed, almost see through it the Morlocks on their ant-hill going hither and thither and waiting for the dark.
In my excitement I fancied that they would receive my invasion of their burrows as a declaration of war.
And why had they taken my Time Machine? "So we went on in the quiet, and the twilight deepened into night.
The clear blue of the distance faded, and one star after another came out. The ground grew dim and the trees black.
Weena's fears and her fatigue grew upon her.
I took her in my arms and talked to her and caressed her.
Then, as the darkness grew deeper, she put her arms round my neck, and, closing her eyes, tightly pressed her face against my shoulder.
So we went down a long slope into a valley, and there in the dimness I almost walked into a little river.
This I waded, and went up the opposite side of the valley, past a number of sleeping houses, and by a statue-a Faun, or some such figure, _minus_ the head.
I could see no end to it, either to the right or the left.
Feeling tired-my feet, in particular, were very sore-I carefully lowered Weena from my shoulder as I halted, and sat down upon the turf.
I could no longer see the Palace of Green Porcelain, and I was in doubt of my direction.
I looked into the thickness of the wood and thought of what it might hide.
Under that dense tangle of branches one would be out of sight of the stars.
Even were there no other lurking danger-a danger I did not care to let my imagination loose upon-there would still be all the roots to stumble over and the tree-boles to strike against.
I was very tired, too, after the excitements of the day; so I decided that I would not face it, but would pass the night upon the open hill. "Weena, I was glad to find, was fast asleep.
I carefully wrapped her in my jacket, and sat down beside her to wait for the moonrise.
The hillside was quiet and deserted, but from the black of the wood there came now and then a stir of living things.
Above me shone the stars, for the night was very clear.
I felt a certain sense of friendly comfort in their twinkling.
All the old constellations had gone from the sky, however: that slow movement which is imperceptible in a hundred human lifetimes, had long since rearranged them in unfamiliar groupings.
But the Milky Way, it seemed to me, was still the same tattered streamer of star-dust as of yore.
Southward (as I judged it) was a very bright red star that was new to me; it was even more splendid than our own green Sirius.
And amid all these scintillating points of light one bright planet shone kindly and steadily like the face of an old friend. "Looking at these stars suddenly dwarfed my own troubles and all the gravities of terrestrial life.
I thought of their unfathomable distance, and the slow inevitable drift of their movements out of the unknown past into the unknown future.
I thought of the great precessional cycle that the pole of the earth describes.
Only forty times had that silent revolution occurred during all the years that I had traversed.
And during these few revolutions all the activity, all the traditions, the complex organisations, the nations, languages, literatures, aspirations, even the mere memory of Man as I knew him, had been swept out of existence.
Instead were these frail creatures who had forgotten their high ancestry, and the white Things of which I went in terror.
Then I thought of the Great Fear that was between the two species, and for the first time, with a sudden shiver, came the clear knowledge of what the meat I had seen might be.
Yet it was too horrible!
The sky kept very clear, except for a hazy cloud or so.
No doubt I dozed at times.
Then, as my vigil wore on, came a faintness in the eastward sky, like the reflection of some colourless fire, and the old moon rose, thin and peaked and white.
And close behind, and overtaking it, and overflowing it, the dawn came, pale at first, and then growing pink and warm.
No Morlocks had approached us.
Indeed, I had seen none upon the hill that night.
And in the confidence of renewed day it almost seemed to me that my fear had been unreasonable.
We found some fruit wherewith to break our fast.
We soon met others of the dainty ones, laughing and dancing in the sunlight as though there was no such thing in nature as the night.
And then I thought once more of the meat that I had seen.
I felt assured now of what it was, and from the bottom of my heart I pitied this last feeble rill from the great flood of humanity.
Clearly, at some time in the Long-Ago of human decay the Morlocks' food had run short.
Possibly they had lived on rats and such-like vermin.
Even now man is far less discriminating and exclusive in his food than he was-far less than any monkey.
His prejudice against human flesh is no deep-seated instinct.
And so these inhuman sons of men--!
I tried to look at the thing in a scientific spirit.
After all, they were less human and more remote than our cannibal ancestors of three or four thousand years ago.
And the intelligence that would have made this state of things a torment had gone.
Why should I trouble myself?
These Eloi were mere fatted cattle, which the ant-like Morlocks preserved and preyed upon-probably saw to the breeding of.
And there was Weena dancing at my side! "Then I tried to preserve myself from the horror that was coming upon me, by regarding it as a rigorous punishment of human selfishness.
Man had been content to live in ease and delight upon the labours of his fellow-man, had taken Necessity as his watchword and excuse, and in the fullness of time Necessity had come home to him.
I even tried a Carlyle-like scorn of this wretched aristocracy in decay.
But this attitude of mind was impossible.
In the next place, I hoped to procure some means of fire, so that I should have the weapon of a torch at hand, for nothing, I knew, would be more efficient against these Morlocks.
Then I wanted to arrange some contrivance to break open the doors of bronze under the White Sphinx.
I had in mind a battering ram.
I had a persuasion that if I could enter those doors and carry a blaze of light before me I should discover the Time Machine and escape.
I could not imagine the Morlocks were strong enough to move it far away.
Weena I had resolved to bring with me to our own time.
Only ragged vestiges of glass remained in its windows, and great sheets of the green facing had fallen away from the corroded metallic framework.
It lay very high upon a turfy down, and looking north-eastward before I entered it, I was surprised to see a large estuary, or even creek, where I judged Wandsworth and Battersea must once have been.
I thought, rather foolishly, that Weena might help me to interpret this, but I only learnt that the bare idea of writing had never entered her head.
The tiled floor was thick with dust, and a remarkable array of miscellaneous objects was shrouded in the same grey covering.
Then I perceived, standing strange and gaunt in the centre of the hall, what was clearly the lower part of a huge skeleton.
I recognised by the oblique feet that it was some extinct creature after the fashion of the Megatherium.
The skull and the upper bones lay beside it in the thick dust, and in one place, where rain-water had dropped through a leak in the roof, the thing itself had been worn away.
Further in the gallery was the huge skeleton barrel of a Brontosaurus.
My museum hypothesis was confirmed.
Going towards the side I found what appeared to be sloping shelves, and clearing away the thick dust, I found the old familiar glass cases of our own time.
Here and there I found traces of the little people in the shape of rare fossils broken to pieces or threaded in strings upon reeds.
And the cases had in some instances been bodily removed-by the Morlocks, as I judged.
The place was very silent.
The thick dust deadened our footsteps.
To me, at least in my present circumstances, these would be vastly more interesting than this spectacle of old-time geology in decay.
Exploring, I found another short gallery running transversely to the first.
This appeared to be devoted to minerals, and the sight of a block of sulphur set my mind running on gunpowder.
But I could find no saltpetre; indeed, no nitrates of any kind.
Doubtless they had deliquesced ages ago.
Yet the sulphur hung in my mind, and set up a train of thinking.
As for the rest of the contents of that gallery, though on the whole they were the best preserved of all I saw, I had little interest.
I am no specialist in mineralogy, and I went on down a very ruinous aisle running parallel to the first hall I had entered.
Apparently this section had been devoted to natural history, but everything had long since passed out of recognition.
A few shrivelled and blackened vestiges of what had once been stuffed animals, desiccated mummies in jars that had once held spirit, a brown dust of departed plants: that was all!
I was sorry for that, because I should have been glad to trace the patient readjustments by which the conquest of animated nature had been attained.
Then we came to a gallery of simply colossal proportions, but singularly ill-lit, the floor of it running downward at a slight angle from the end at which I entered.
At intervals white globes hung from the ceiling-many of them cracked and smashed-which suggested that originally the place had been artificially lit.
Here I was more in my element, for rising on either side of me were the huge bulks of big machines, all greatly corroded and many broken down, but some still fairly complete.
I fancied that if I could solve their puzzles I should find myself in possession of powers that might be of use against the Morlocks. "Suddenly Weena came very close to my side.
So suddenly that she startled me.
As you went down the length, the ground came up against these windows, until at last there was a pit like the 'area' of a London house before each, and only a narrow line of daylight at the top.
I went slowly along, puzzling about the machines, and had been too intent upon them to notice the gradual diminution of the light, until Weena's increasing apprehensions drew my attention.
Then I saw that the gallery ran down at last into a thick darkness.
I hesitated, and then, as I looked round me, I saw that the dust was less abundant and its surface less even.
Further away towards the dimness, it appeared to be broken by a number of small narrow footprints.
My sense of the immediate presence of the Morlocks revived at that.
I felt that I was wasting my time in this academic examination of machinery.
I called to mind that it was already far advanced in the afternoon, and that I had still no weapon, no refuge, and no means of making a fire.
And then down in the remote blackness of the gallery I heard a peculiar pattering, and the same odd noises I had heard down the well. "I took Weena's hand.
Then, struck with a sudden idea, I left her and turned to a machine from which projected a lever not unlike those in a signal-box.
Clambering upon the stand, and grasping this lever in my hands, I put all my weight upon it sideways.
Suddenly Weena, deserted in the central aisle, began to whimper.
I had judged the strength of the lever pretty correctly, for it snapped after a minute's strain, and I rejoined her with a mace in my hand more than sufficient, I judged, for any Morlock skull I might encounter.
And I longed very much to kill a Morlock or so.
Very inhuman, you may think, to want to go killing one's own descendants!
But it was impossible, somehow, to feel any humanity in the things.
The brown and charred rags that hung from the sides of it, I presently recognised as the decaying vestiges of books.
They had long since dropped to pieces, and every semblance of print had left them.
But here and there were warped boards and cracked metallic clasps that told the tale well enough.
Had I been a literary man I might, perhaps, have moralised upon the futility of all ambition.
But as it was, the thing that struck me with keenest force was the enormous waste of labour to which this sombre wilderness of rotting paper testified.
And here I had not a little hope of useful discoveries.
Except at one end where the roof had collapsed, this gallery was well preserved.
I went eagerly to every unbroken case. And at last, in one of the really air-tight cases, I found a box of matches.
Very eagerly I tried them.
They were not even damp.
Dance,' I cried to her in her own tongue.
For now I had a weapon indeed against the horrible creatures we feared.
And so, in that derelict museum, upon the thick soft carpeting of dust, to Weena's huge delight, I solemnly performed a kind of composite dance, whistling _The Land of the Leal_ as cheerfully as I could.
Yet, oddly enough, I found a far unlikelier substance, and that was camphor.
I found it in a sealed jar, that by chance, I suppose, had been really hermetically sealed.
I fancied at first that it was paraffin wax, and smashed the glass accordingly.
But the odour of camphor was unmistakable.
In the universal decay this volatile substance had chanced to survive, perhaps through many thousands of centuries.
It reminded me of a sepia painting I had once seen done from the ink of a fossil Belemnite that must have perished and become fossilised millions of years ago.
I was about to throw it away, but I remembered that it was inflammable and burnt with a good bright flame-was, in fact, an excellent candle-and I put it in my pocket.
I found no explosives, however, nor any means of breaking down the bronze doors.
As yet my iron crowbar was the most helpful thing I had chanced upon.
Nevertheless I left that gallery greatly elated. "I cannot tell you all the story of that long afternoon.
It would require a great effort of memory to recall my explorations in at all the proper order.
I remember a long gallery of rusting stands of arms, and how I hesitated between my crowbar and a hatchet or a sword.
I could not carry both, however, and my bar of iron promised best against the bronze gates.
There were numbers of guns, pistols, and rifles.
The most were masses of rust, but many were of some new metal, and still fairly sound.
But any cartridges or powder there may once have been had rotted into dust.
One corner I saw was charred and shattered; perhaps, I thought, by an explosion among the specimens.
In another place was a vast array of idols-Polynesian, Mexican, Grecian, Phoenician, every country on earth, I should think.
And here, yielding to an irresistible impulse, I wrote my name upon the nose of a steatite monster from South America that particularly took my fancy. "As the evening drew on, my interest waned.
I went through gallery after gallery, dusty, silent, often ruinous, the exhibits sometimes mere heaps of rust and lignite, sometimes fresher.
In one place I suddenly found myself near the model of a tin mine, and then by the merest accident I discovered, in an air-tight case, two dynamite cartridges!
I shouted 'Eureka!' and smashed the case with joy.
Then, selecting a little side gallery, I made my essay.
I never felt such a disappointment as I did in waiting five, ten, fifteen minutes for an explosion that never came.
Of course the things were dummies, as I might have guessed from their presence.
It was turfed, and had three fruit-trees.
So we rested and refreshed ourselves.
Towards sunset I began to consider our position. Night was creeping upon us, and my inaccessible hiding-place had still to be found.
But that troubled me very little now.
I had in my possession a thing that was, perhaps, the best of all defences against the Morlocks-I had matches!
I had the camphor in my pocket, too, if a blaze were needed.
It seemed to me that the best thing we could do would be to pass the night in the open, protected by a fire.
In the morning there was the getting of the Time Machine.
Towards that, as yet, I had only my iron mace.
But now, with my growing knowledge, I felt very differently towards those bronze doors.
Up to this, I had refrained from forcing them, largely because of the mystery on the other side.
I was determined to reach the White Sphinx early the next morning, and ere the dusk I purposed pushing through the woods that had stopped me on the previous journey.
My plan was to go as far as possible that night, and then, building a fire, to sleep in the protection of its glare.
Accordingly, as we went along I gathered any sticks or dried grass I saw, and presently had my arms full of such litter.
Thus loaded, our progress was slower than I had anticipated, and besides Weena was tired.
I had been without sleep for a night and two days, and I was feverish and irritable.
I felt sleep coming upon me, and the Morlocks with it. "While we hesitated, among the black bushes behind us, and dim against their blackness, I saw three crouching figures.
There was scrub and long grass all about us, and I did not feel safe from their insidious approach.
Yet it was evident that if I was to flourish matches with my hands I should have to abandon my firewood; so, rather reluctantly, I put it down.
And then it came into my head that I would amaze our friends behind by lighting it.
The sun's heat is rarely strong enough to burn, even when it is focused by dewdrops, as is sometimes the case in more tropical districts.
Lightning may blast and blacken, but it rarely gives rise to widespread fire.
Decaying vegetation may occasionally smoulder with the heat of its fermentation, but this rarely results in flame.
In this decadence, too, the art of fire-making had been forgotten on the earth.
The red tongues that went licking up my heap of wood were an altogether new and strange thing to Weena. "She wanted to run to it and play with it.
I believe she would have cast herself into it had I not restrained her.
But I caught her up, and in spite of her struggles, plunged boldly before me into the wood.
For a little way the glare of my fire lit the path.
Looking back presently, I could see, through the crowded stems, that from my heap of sticks the blaze had spread to some bushes adjacent, and a curved line of fire was creeping up the grass of the hill.
I laughed at that, and turned again to the dark trees before me.
It was very black, and Weena clung to me convulsively, but there was still, as my eyes grew accustomed to the darkness, sufficient light for me to avoid the stems.
Overhead it was simply black, except where a gap of remote blue sky shone down upon us here and there.
Then I seemed to know of a pattering behind me.
The pattering grew more distinct, and then I caught the same queer sound and voices I had heard in the Underworld.
There were evidently several of the Morlocks, and they were closing in upon me.
Indeed, in another minute I felt a tug at my coat, then something at my arm.
And Weena shivered violently, and became quite still. "It was time for a match.
But to get one I must put her down.
I did so, and, as I fumbled with my pocket, a struggle began in the darkness about my knees, perfectly silent on her part and with the same peculiar cooing sounds from the Morlocks.
Soft little hands, too, were creeping over my coat and back, touching even my neck.
Then the match scratched and fizzed.
I held it flaring, and saw the white backs of the Morlocks in flight amid the trees.
I hastily took a lump of camphor from my pocket, and prepared to light it as soon as the match should wane.
Then I looked at Weena.
She was lying clutching my feet and quite motionless, with her face to the ground.
With a sudden fright I stooped to her.
She seemed scarcely to breathe.
I lit the block of camphor and flung it to the ground, and as it split and flared up and drove back the Morlocks and the shadows, I knelt down and lifted her.
The wood behind seemed full of the stir and murmur of a great company! "She seemed to have fainted.
I put her carefully upon my shoulder and rose to push on, and then there came a horrible realisation.
In manoeuvring with my matches and Weena, I had turned myself about several times, and now I had not the faintest idea in what direction lay my path.
For all I knew, I might be facing back towards the Palace of Green Porcelain.
I found myself in a cold sweat.
I had to think rapidly what to do.
I determined to build a fire and encamp where we were.
I put Weena, still motionless, down upon a turfy bole, and very hastily, as my first lump of camphor waned, I began collecting sticks and leaves.
Here and there out of the darkness round me the Morlocks' eyes shone like carbuncles. "The camphor flickered and went out.
He gave a whoop of dismay, staggered a little way, and fell down.
I lit another piece of camphor, and went on gathering my bonfire.
Presently I noticed how dry was some of the foliage above me, for since my arrival on the Time Machine, a matter of a week, no rain had fallen.
So, instead of casting about among the trees for fallen twigs, I began leaping up and dragging down branches.
Very soon I had a choking smoky fire of green wood and dry sticks, and could economise my camphor.
Then I turned to where Weena lay beside my iron mace.
I tried what I could to revive her, but she lay like one dead.
I could not even satisfy myself whether or not she breathed. "Now, the smoke of the fire beat over towards me, and it must have made me heavy of a sudden.
Moreover, the vapour of camphor was in the air. My fire would not need replenishing for an hour or so.
I felt very weary after my exertion, and sat down.
The wood, too, was full of a slumbrous murmur that I did not understand.
I seemed just to nod and open my eyes.
But all was dark, and the Morlocks had their hands upon me.
Flinging off their clinging fingers I hastily felt in my pocket for the match-box, and-it had gone!
Then they gripped and closed with me again.
In a moment I knew what had happened.
I had slept, and my fire had gone out, and the bitterness of death came over my soul.
The forest seemed full of the smell of burning wood.
I was caught by the neck, by the hair, by the arms, and pulled down.
It was indescribably horrible in the darkness to feel all these soft creatures heaped upon me.
I felt as if I was in a monstrous spider's web.
I was overpowered, and went down.
I felt little teeth nipping at my neck.
I rolled over, and as I did so my hand came against my iron lever.
I struggled up, shaking the human rats from me, and, holding the bar short, I thrust where I judged their faces might be.
I could feel the succulent giving of flesh and bone under my blows, and for a moment I was free. "The strange exultation that so often seems to accompany hard fighting came upon me.
I knew that both I and Weena were lost, but I determined to make the Morlocks pay for their meat.
I stood with my back to a tree, swinging the iron bar before me.
The whole wood was full of the stir and cries of them.
Their voices seemed to rise to a higher pitch of excitement, and their movements grew faster.
Yet none came within reach.
I stood glaring at the blackness.
What if the Morlocks were afraid?
And close on the heels of that came a strange thing.
The darkness seemed to grow luminous.
And their backs seemed no longer white, but reddish. As I stood agape, I saw a little red spark go drifting across a gap of starlight between the branches, and vanish.
It was my first fire coming after me.
With that I looked for Weena, but she was gone.
The hissing and crackling behind me, the explosive thud as each fresh tree burst into flame, left little time for reflection. My iron bar still gripped, I followed in the Morlocks' path.
It was a close race.
Once the flames crept forward so swiftly on my right as I ran that I was outflanked and had to strike off to the left.
This whole space was as bright as day with the reflection of the fire.
In the centre was a hillock or tumulus, surmounted by a scorched hawthorn.
Beyond this was another arm of the burning forest, with yellow tongues already writhing from it, completely encircling the space with a fence of fire.
At one time the flames died down somewhat, and I feared the foul creatures would presently be able to see me.
I was thinking of beginning the fight by killing some of them before this should happen; but the fire burst out again brightly, and I stayed my hand.
I walked about the hill among them and avoided them, looking for some trace of Weena.
The coiling uprush of smoke streamed across the sky, and through the rare tatters of that red canopy, remote as though they belonged to another universe, shone the little stars.
Two or three Morlocks came blundering into me, and I drove them off with blows of my fists, trembling as I did so. "For the most part of that night I was persuaded it was a nightmare.
I bit myself and screamed in a passionate desire to awake.
I beat the ground with my hands, and got up and sat down again, and wandered here and there, and again sat down.
Then I would fall to rubbing my eyes and calling upon God to let me awake.
Thrice I saw Morlocks put their heads down in a kind of agony and rush into the flames.
It was plain that they had left her poor little body in the forest.
I cannot describe how it relieved me to think that it had escaped the awful fate to which it seemed destined.
As I thought of that, I was almost moved to begin a massacre of the helpless abominations about me, but I contained myself.
The hillock, as I have said, was a kind of island in the forest.
From its summit I could now make out through a haze of smoke the Palace of Green Porcelain, and from that I could get my bearings for the White Sphinx.
I walked slowly, for I was almost exhausted, as well as lame, and I felt the intensest wretchedness for the horrible death of little Weena.
It seemed an overwhelming calamity.
Now, in this old familiar room, it is more like the sorrow of a dream than an actual loss.
But that morning it left me absolutely lonely again-terribly alone.
Here was the same beautiful scene, the same abundant foliage, the same splendid palaces and magnificent ruins, the same silver river running between its fertile banks.
The gay robes of the beautiful people moved hither and thither among the trees.
Some were bathing in exactly the place where I had saved Weena, and that suddenly gave me a keen stab of pain.
And like blots upon the landscape rose the cupolas above the ways to the Underworld.
I understood now what all the beauty of the Overworld people covered.
Very pleasant was their day, as pleasant as the day of the cattle in the field.
Like the cattle, they knew of no enemies and provided against no needs.
And their end was the same. "I grieved to think how brief the dream of the human intellect had been.
It had set itself steadfastly towards comfort and ease, a balanced society with security and permanency as its watchword, it had attained its hopes-to come to this at last.
Once, life and property must have reached almost absolute safety.
The rich had been assured of his wealth and comfort, the toiler assured of his life and work.
No doubt in that perfect world there had been no unemployed problem, no social question left unsolved.
And a great quiet had followed. "It is a law of nature we overlook, that intellectual versatility is the compensation for change, danger, and trouble.
An animal perfectly in harmony with its environment is a perfect mechanism.
Nature never appeals to intelligence until habit and instinct are useless.
There is no intelligence where there is no change and no need of change.
Only those animals partake of intelligence that have to meet a huge variety of needs and dangers. "So, as I see it, the Upperworld man had drifted towards his feeble prettiness, and the Underworld to mere mechanical industry.
But that perfect state had lacked one thing even for mechanical perfection-absolute permanency.
Apparently as time went on, the feeding of an Underworld, however it was effected, had become disjointed. Mother Necessity, who had been staved off for a few thousand years, came back again, and she began below.
The Underworld being in contact with machinery, which, however perfect, still needs some little thought outside habit, had probably retained perforce rather more initiative, if less of every other human character, than the Upper.
And when other meat failed them, they turned to what old habit had hitherto forbidden. So I say I saw it in my last view of the world of Eight Hundred and Two Thousand Seven Hundred and One.
It may be as wrong an explanation as mortal wit could invent.
I was very tired and sleepy, and soon my theorising passed into dozing.
Catching myself at that, I took my own hint, and spreading myself out upon the turf I had a long and refreshing sleep. "I awoke a little before sunsetting.
I now felt safe against being caught napping by the Morlocks, and, stretching myself, I came on down the hill towards the White Sphinx.
I had my crowbar in one hand, and the other hand played with the matches in my pocket. "And now came a most unexpected thing.
As I approached the pedestal of the sphinx I found the bronze valves were open.
They had slid down into grooves. "At that I stopped short before them, hesitating to enter. "Within was a small apartment, and on a raised place in the corner of this was the Time Machine.
I had the small levers in my pocket.
So here, after all my elaborate preparations for the siege of the White Sphinx, was a meek surrender.
I was surprised to find it had been carefully oiled and cleaned.
The bronze panels suddenly slid up and struck the frame with a clang.
I was in the dark-trapped.
At that I chuckled gleefully. "I could already hear their murmuring laughter as they came towards me. Very calmly I tried to strike the match.
I had only to fix on the levers and depart then like a ghost.
But I had overlooked one little thing.
The matches were of that abominable kind that light only on the box. "You may imagine how all my calm vanished.
The little brutes were close upon me.
I made a sweeping blow in the dark at them with the levers, and began to scramble into the saddle of the machine. Then came one hand upon me and then another.
Then I had simply to fight against their persistent fingers for my levers, and at the same time feel for the studs over which these fitted.
One, indeed, they almost got away from me.
As it slipped from my hand, I had to butt in the dark with my head-I could hear the Morlock's skull ring-to recover it.
It was a nearer thing than the fight in the forest, I think, this last scramble. "But at last the lever was fixed and pulled over.
The clinging hands slipped from me.
The darkness presently fell from my eyes.
I found myself in the same grey light and tumult I have already described. XIV. The Further Vision "I have already told you of the sickness and confusion that comes with time travelling.
And this time I was not seated properly in the saddle, but sideways and in an unstable fashion.
For an indefinite time I clung to the machine as it swayed and vibrated, quite unheeding how I went, and when I brought myself to look at the dials again I was amazed to find where I had arrived.
This puzzled me very much at first.
The alternations of night and day grew slower and slower, and so did the passage of the sun across the sky, until they seemed to stretch through centuries.
All trace of the moon had vanished.
The circling of the stars, growing slower and slower, had given place to creeping points of light.
At last, some time before I stopped, the sun, red and very large, halted motionless upon the horizon, a vast dome glowing with a dull heat, and now and then suffering a momentary extinction.
At one time it had for a little while glowed more brilliantly again, but it speedily reverted to its sullen red heat.
I perceived by this slowing down of its rising and setting that the work of the tidal drag was done.
The earth had come to rest with one face to the sun, even as in our own time the moon faces the earth.
Very cautiously, for I remembered my former headlong fall, I began to reverse my motion.
Slower and slower went the circling hands until the thousands one seemed motionless and the daily one was no longer a mere mist upon its scale.
Still slower, until the dim outlines of a desolate beach grew visible. "I stopped very gently and sat upon the Time Machine, looking round. The sky was no longer blue.
The rocks about me were of a harsh reddish colour, and all the trace of life that I could see at first was the intensely green vegetation that covered every projecting point on their south-eastern face.
It was the same rich green that one sees on forest moss or on the lichen in caves: plants which like these grow in a perpetual twilight. "The machine was standing on a sloping beach.
The sea stretched away to the south-west, to rise into a sharp bright horizon against the wan sky.
There were no breakers and no waves, for not a breath of wind was stirring.
The sound of its voice was so dismal that I shivered and seated myself more firmly upon the machine.
Looking round me again, I saw that, quite near, what I had taken to be a reddish mass of rock was moving slowly towards me. Then I saw the thing was really a monstrous crab-like creature.
Its back was corrugated and ornamented with ungainly bosses, and a greenish incrustation blotched it here and there.
I could see the many palps of its complicated mouth flickering and feeling as it moved. "As I stared at this sinister apparition crawling towards me, I felt a tickling on my cheek as though a fly had lighted there.
I tried to brush it away with my hand, but in a moment it returned, and almost immediately came another by my ear.
I struck at this, and caught something threadlike.
It was drawn swiftly out of my hand.
With a frightful qualm, I turned, and I saw that I had grasped the antenna of another monster crab that stood just behind me.
Its evil eyes were wriggling on their stalks, its mouth was all alive with appetite, and its vast ungainly claws, smeared with an algal slime, were descending upon me.
In a moment my hand was on the lever, and I had placed a month between myself and these monsters.
But I was still on the same beach, and I saw them distinctly now as soon as I stopped.
Dozens of them seemed to be crawling here and there, in the sombre light, among the foliated sheets of intense green. "I cannot convey the sense of abominable desolation that hung over the world.
At last, more than thirty million years hence, the huge red-hot dome of the sun had come to obscure nearly a tenth part of the darkling heavens.
Then I stopped once more, for the crawling multitude of crabs had disappeared, and the red beach, save for its livid green liverworts and lichens, seemed lifeless.
And now it was flecked with white.
A bitter cold assailed me.
Rare white flakes ever and again came eddying down.
A certain indefinable apprehension still kept me in the saddle of the machine.
But I saw nothing moving, in earth or sky or sea.
The green slime on the rocks alone testified that life was not extinct.
A shallow sandbank had appeared in the sea and the water had receded from the beach.
I fancied I saw some black object flopping about upon this bank, but it became motionless as I looked at it, and I judged that my eye had been deceived, and that the black object was merely a rock.
The stars in the sky were intensely bright and seemed to me to twinkle very little. "Suddenly I noticed that the circular westward outline of the sun had changed; that a concavity, a bay, had appeared in the curve.
I saw this grow larger.
For a minute perhaps I stared aghast at this blackness that was creeping over the day, and then I realised that an eclipse was beginning.
Either the moon or the planet Mercury was passing across the sun's disk.
From the edge of the sea came a ripple and whisper.
Beyond these lifeless sounds the world was silent.
It would be hard to convey the stillness of it.
All the sounds of man, the bleating of sheep, the cries of birds, the hum of insects, the stir that makes the background of our lives-all that was over.
As the darkness thickened, the eddying flakes grew more abundant, dancing before my eyes; and the cold of the air more intense.
At last, one by one, swiftly, one after the other, the white peaks of the distant hills vanished into blackness.
The breeze rose to a moaning wind.
I saw the black central shadow of the eclipse sweeping towards me.
In another moment the pale stars alone were visible.
All else was rayless obscurity.
The sky was absolutely black. "A horror of this great darkness came on me.
The cold, that smote to my marrow, and the pain I felt in breathing, overcame me.
I shivered, and a deadly nausea seized me.
Then like a red-hot bow in the sky appeared the edge of the sun. I got off the machine to recover myself.
I felt giddy and incapable of facing the return journey.
As I stood sick and confused I saw again the moving thing upon the shoal-there was no mistake now that it was a moving thing-against the red water of the sea.
It was a round thing, the size of a football perhaps, or, it may be, bigger, and tentacles trailed down from it; it seemed black against the weltering blood-red water, and it was hopping fitfully about.
Then I felt I was fainting.
But a terrible dread of lying helpless in that remote and awful twilight sustained me while I clambered upon the saddle. XV. The Time Traveller's Return "So I came back.
For a long time I must have been insensible upon the machine.
The blinking succession of the days and nights was resumed, the sun got golden again, the sky blue.
I breathed with greater freedom.
The fluctuating contours of the land ebbed and flowed.
The hands spun backward upon the dials.
At last I saw again the dim shadows of houses, the evidences of decadent humanity.
These, too, changed and passed, and others came.
Presently, when the million dial was at zero, I slackened speed.
I began to recognise our own pretty and familiar architecture, the thousands hand ran back to the starting-point, the night and day flapped slower and slower.
Then the old walls of the laboratory came round me.
Very gently, now, I slowed the mechanism down. "I saw one little thing that seemed odd to me.
I think I have told you that when I set out, before my velocity became very high, Mrs. Watchett had walked across the room, travelling, as it seemed to me, like a rocket.
As I returned, I passed again across that minute when she traversed the laboratory.
But now her every motion appeared to be the exact inversion of her previous ones.
The door at the lower end opened, and she glided quietly up the laboratory, back foremost, and disappeared behind the door by which she had previously entered.
I got off the thing very shakily, and sat down upon my bench.
For several minutes I trembled violently.
Around me was my old workshop again, exactly as it had been.
I might have slept there, and the whole thing have been a dream. "And yet, not exactly!
The thing had started from the south-east corner of the laboratory.
It had come to rest again in the north-west, against the wall where you saw it.
That gives you the exact distance from my little lawn to the pedestal of the White Sphinx, into which the Morlocks had carried my machine. "For a time my brain went stagnant.
Presently I got up and came through the passage here, limping, because my heel was still painful, and feeling sorely begrimed.
I saw the _Pall Mall Gazette_ on the table by the door.
I found the date was indeed today, and looking at the timepiece, saw the hour was almost eight o'clock.
I heard your voices and the clatter of plates.
I hesitated-I felt so sick and weak.
Then I sniffed good wholesome meat, and opened the door on you.
He looked at the Medical Man. "No. I cannot expect you to believe it.
Take it as a lie-or a prophecy. Say I dreamed it in the workshop.
Consider I have been speculating upon the destinies of our race, until I have hatched this fiction.
There was a momentary stillness.
Then chairs began to creak and shoes to scrape upon the carpet.
I took my eyes off the Time Traveller's face, and looked round at his audience.
They were in the dark, and little spots of colour swam before them.
The Medical Man seemed absorbed in the contemplation of our host.
The Editor was looking hard at the end of his cigar-the sixth.
The Journalist fumbled for his watch.
The others, as far as I remember, were motionless. The Editor stood up with a sigh.
What a pity it is you're not a writer of stories!" he said, putting his hand on the Time Traveller's shoulder. "You don't believe it?" "Well--" "I thought not." The Time Traveller turned to us.
Where are the matches?" he said.
He lit one and spoke over his pipe, puffing.
To tell you the truth...
I hardly believe it myself.....
And yet..." His eye fell with a mute inquiry upon the withered white flowers upon the little table.
Then he turned over the hand holding his pipe, and I saw he was looking at some half-healed scars on his knuckles. The Medical Man rose, came to the lamp, and examined the flowers.
The gynaeceum's odd," he said.
The Psychologist leant forward to see, holding out his hand for a specimen. "I'm hanged if it isn't a quarter to one," said the Journalist.
How shall we get home?" "Plenty of cabs at the station," said the Psychologist. "It's a curious thing," said the Medical Man; "but I certainly don't know the natural order of these flowers.
May I have them?" The Time Traveller hesitated.
Then suddenly: "Certainly not." "Where did you really get them?" said the Medical Man. The Time Traveller put his hand to his head.
He spoke like one who was trying to keep hold of an idea that eluded him.
They were put into my pocket by Weena, when I travelled into Time.
He stared round the room. "I'm damned if it isn't all going.
This room and you and the atmosphere of every day is too much for my memory.
Did I ever make a Time Machine, or a model of a Time Machine?
Or is it all only a dream?
They say life is a dream, a precious poor dream at times-but I can't stand another that won't fit.
And where did the dream come from? ... I must look at that machine.
If there is one!" He caught up the lamp swiftly, and carried it, flaring red, through the door into the corridor.
There in the flickering light of the lamp was the machine sure enough, squat, ugly, and askew, a thing of brass, ebony, ivory, and translucent glimmering quartz.
It's all right now," he said.
The story I told you was true.
I remember him standing in the open doorway, bawling good-night. I shared a cab with the Editor.
He thought the tale a "gaudy lie.
For my own part I was unable to come to a conclusion.
The story was so fantastic and incredible, the telling so credible and sober.
I lay awake most of the night thinking about it.
I determined to go next day and see the Time Traveller again.
I was told he was in the laboratory, and being on easy terms in the house, I went up to him.
The laboratory, however, was empty.
I stared for a minute at the Time Machine and put out my hand and touched the lever.
At that the squat substantial-looking mass swayed like a bough shaken by the wind.
Its instability startled me extremely, and I had a queer reminiscence of the childish days when I used to be forbidden to meddle.
I came back through the corridor.
The Time Traveller met me in the smoking-room.
He was coming from the house.
He had a small camera under one arm and a knapsack under the other.
He laughed when he saw me, and gave me an elbow to shake.
I'm frightfully busy," said he, "with that thing in there." "But is it not some hoax?
Do you really travel through time?" "Really and truly I do.
And he looked frankly into my eyes.
His eye wandered about the room.
I only want half an hour," he said.
I know why you came, and it's awfully good of you.
If you'll stop to lunch I'll prove you this time travelling up to the hilt, specimens and all.
If you'll forgive my leaving you now?" I consented, hardly comprehending then the full import of his words, and he nodded and went on down the corridor.
I heard the door of the laboratory slam, seated myself in a chair, and took up a daily paper. What was he going to do before lunch-time?
Then suddenly I was reminded by an advertisement that I had promised to meet Richardson, the publisher, at two.
I looked at my watch, and saw that I could barely save that engagement.
I got up and went down the passage to tell the Time Traveller. As I took hold of the handle of the door I heard an exclamation, oddly truncated at the end, and a click and a thud.
A gust of air whirled round me as I opened the door, and from within came the sound of broken glass falling on the floor.
The Time Traveller was not there.
The Time Machine had gone.
Save for a subsiding stir of dust, the further end of the laboratory was empty.
A pane of the skylight had, apparently, just been blown in. I felt an unreasonable amazement.
I knew that something strange had happened, and for the moment could not distinguish what the strange thing might be.
As I stood staring, the door into the garden opened, and the man-servant appeared. We looked at each other.
Then ideas began to come.
Has Mr. -- gone out that way?" said I. "No, sir.
No one has come out this way.
I was expecting to find him here." At that I understood.
At the risk of disappointing Richardson I stayed on, waiting for the Time Traveller; waiting for the second, perhaps still stranger story, and the specimens and photographs he would bring with him.
But I am beginning now to fear that I must wait a lifetime. The Time Traveller vanished three years ago.
And, as everybody knows now, he has never returned. Epilogue One cannot choose but wonder.
He may even now-if I may use the phrase-be wandering on some plesiosaurus-haunted Oolitic coral reef, or beside the lonely saline seas of the Triassic Age.
Or did he go forward, into one of the nearer ages, in which men are still men, but with the riddles of our own time answered and its wearisome problems solved?
Into the manhood of the race: for I, for my own part, cannot think that these latter days of weak experiment, fragmentary theory, and mutual discord are indeed man's culminating time!
I say, for my own part.
If that is so, it remains for us to live as though it were not so.
But to me the future is still black and blank-is a vast ignorance, lit at a few casual places by the memory of his story.
/ The War of the Worlds by H.
Wells 'But who shall dwell in these worlds if they be inhabited? . . .
Are we or they Lords of the World? . . .
And how are all things made for man?' KEPLER (quoted in _The Anatomy of Melancholy_) Contents BOOK ONE.-THE COMING OF THE MARTIANS I.
With infinite complacency men went to and fro over this globe about their little affairs, serene in their assurance of their empire over matter.
It is possible that the infusoria under the microscope do the same.
No one gave a thought to the older worlds of space as sources of human danger, or thought of them only to dismiss the idea of life upon them as impossible or improbable.
It is curious to recall some of the mental habits of those departed days.
At most terrestrial men fancied there might be other men upon Mars, perhaps inferior to themselves and ready to welcome a missionary enterprise.
It must be, if the nebular hypothesis has any truth, older than our world; and long before this earth ceased to be molten, life upon its surface must have begun its course.
The fact that it is scarcely one seventh of the volume of the earth must have accelerated its cooling to the temperature at which life could begin.
That last stage of exhaustion, which to us is still incredibly remote, has become a present-day problem for the inhabitants of Mars.
The immediate pressure of necessity has brightened their intellects, enlarged their powers, and hardened their hearts.
The intellectual side of man already admits that life is an incessant struggle for existence, and it would seem that this too is the belief of the minds upon Mars.
Their world is far gone in its cooling and this world is still crowded with life, but crowded only with what they regard as inferior animals.
The Tasmanians, in spite of their human likeness, were entirely swept out of existence in a war of extermination waged by European immigrants, in the space of fifty years.
Had our instruments permitted it, we might have seen the gathering trouble far back in the nineteenth century.
Men like Schiaparelli watched the red planet-it is odd, by-the-bye, that for countless centuries Mars has been the star of war-but failed to interpret the fluctuating appearances of the markings they mapped so well.
English readers heard of it first in the issue of _Nature_ dated August 2.
I am inclined to think that this blaze may have been the casting of the huge gun, in the vast pit sunk into their planet, from which their shots were fired at us.
Peculiar markings, as yet unexplained, were seen near the site of that outbreak during the next two oppositions. The storm burst upon us six years ago now.
As Mars approached opposition, Lavelle of Java set the wires of the astronomical exchange palpitating with the amazing intelligence of a huge outbreak of incandescent gas upon the planet.
It had occurred towards midnight of the twelfth; and the spectroscope, to which he had at once resorted, indicated a mass of flaming gas, chiefly hydrogen, moving with an enormous velocity towards this earth.
This jet of fire had become invisible about a quarter past twelve.
He compared it to a colossal puff of flame suddenly and violently squirted out of the planet, "as flaming gases rushed out of a gun." A singularly appropriate phrase it proved.
Yet the next day there was nothing of this in the papers except a little note in the _Daily Telegraph_, and the world went in ignorance of one of the gravest dangers that ever threatened the human race.
I might not have heard of the eruption at all had I not met Ogilvy, the well-known astronomer, at Ottershaw.
Ogilvy moved about, invisible but audible.
But so little it was, so silvery warm-a pin's head of light!
Forty millions of miles it was from us-more than forty millions of miles of void.
You know how that blackness looks on a frosty starlight night.
I never dreamed of it then as I watched; no one on earth dreamed of that unerring missile. That night, too, there was another jetting out of gas from the distant planet.
A reddish flash at the edge, the slightest projection of the outline just as the chronometer struck midnight; and at that I told Ogilvy and he took my place.
I remember how I sat on the table there in the blackness, with patches of green and crimson swimming before my eyes.
I wished I had a light to smoke by, little suspecting the meaning of the minute gleam I had seen and all that it would presently bring me.
Ogilvy watched till one, and then gave it up; and we lit the lantern and walked over to his house.
His idea was that meteorites might be falling in a heavy shower upon the planet, or that a huge volcanic explosion was in progress.
Why the shots ceased after the tenth no one on earth has attempted to explain.
It may be the gases of the firing caused the Martians inconvenience.
The seriocomic periodical _Punch_, I remember, made a happy use of it in the political cartoon.
And, all unsuspected, those missiles the Martians had fired at us drew earthward, rushing now at a pace of many miles a second through the empty gulf of space, hour by hour and day by day, nearer and nearer.
It seems to me now almost incredibly wonderful that, with that swift fate hanging over us, men could go about their petty concerns as they did.
I remember how jubilant Markham was at securing a new photograph of the planet for the illustrated paper he edited in those days.
People in these latter times scarcely realise the abundance and enterprise of our nineteenth-century papers.
It was starlight and I explained the Signs of the Zodiac to her, and pointed out Mars, a bright dot of light creeping zenithward, towards which so many telescopes were pointed.
It was a warm night.
Coming home, a party of excursionists from Chertsey or Isleworth passed us singing and playing music.
There were lights in the upper windows of the houses as the people went to bed.
From the railway station in the distance came the sound of shunting trains, ringing and rumbling, softened almost into melody by the distance.
My wife pointed out to me the brightness of the red, green, and yellow signal lights hanging in a framework against the sky.
It seemed so safe and tranquil. II. THE FALLING STAR. Then came the night of the first falling star.
It was seen early in the morning, rushing over Winchester eastward, a line of flame high in the atmosphere.
Hundreds must have seen it, and taken it for an ordinary falling star.
Albin described it as leaving a greenish streak behind it that glowed for some seconds.
Denning, our greatest authority on meteorites, stated that the height of its first appearance was about ninety or one hundred miles.
Yet this strangest of all things that ever came to earth from outer space must have fallen while I was sitting there, visible to me had I only looked up as it passed.
Some of those who saw its flight say it travelled with a hissing sound.
I myself heard nothing of that.
Many people in Berkshire, Surrey, and Middlesex must have seen the fall of it, and, at most, have thought that another meteorite had descended.
Find it he did, soon after dawn, and not far from the sand-pits.
The uncovered part had the appearance of a huge cylinder, caked over and its outline softened by a thick scaly dun-coloured incrustation.
It had a diameter of about thirty yards.
He approached the mass, surprised at the size and more so at the shape, since most meteorites are rounded more or less completely.
The early morning was wonderfully still, and the sun, just clearing the pine trees towards Weybridge, was already warm.
He did not remember hearing any birds that morning, there was certainly no breeze stirring, and the only sounds were the faint movements from within the cindery cylinder.
He was all alone on the common. Then suddenly he noticed with a start that some of the grey clinker, the ashy incrustation that covered the meteorite, was falling off the circular edge of the end.
It was dropping off in flakes and raining down upon the sand.
It was such a gradual movement that he discovered it only through noticing that a black mark that had been near him five minutes ago was now at the other side of the circumference.
Even then he scarcely understood what this indicated, until he heard a muffled grating sound and saw the black mark jerk forward an inch or so.
Then the thing came upon him in a flash.
The cylinder was artificial-hollow-with an end that screwed out!
Something within the cylinder was unscrewing the top! "Good heavens!" said Ogilvy.
There's a man in it-men in it!
But luckily the dull radiation arrested him before he could burn his hands on the still-glowing metal.
At that he stood irresolute for a moment, then turned, scrambled out of the pit, and set off running wildly into Woking.
The time then must have been somewhere about six o'clock.
He met a waggoner and tried to make him understand, but the tale he told and his appearance were so wild-his hat had fallen off in the pit-that the man simply drove on.
He was equally unsuccessful with the potman who was just unlocking the doors of the public-house by Horsell Bridge. The fellow thought he was a lunatic at large and made an unsuccessful attempt to shut him into the taproom.
That's good." "But it's something more than a meteorite.
It's a cylinder-an artificial cylinder, man!
And there's something inside." Henderson stood up with his spade in his hand. "What's that?" he said.
He was deaf in one ear. Ogilvy told him all that he had seen.
Henderson was a minute or so taking it in. Then he dropped his spade, snatched up his jacket, and came out into the road.
The two men hurried back at once to the common, and found the cylinder still lying in the same position.
But now the sounds inside had ceased, and a thin circle of bright metal showed between the top and the body of the cylinder.
They shouted consolation and promises, and went off back to the town again to get help.
One can imagine them, covered with sand, excited and disordered, running up the little street in the bright sunlight just as the shop folks were taking down their shutters and people were opening their bedroom windows.
Henderson went into the railway station at once, in order to telegraph the news to London.
The newspaper articles had prepared men's minds for the reception of the idea. By eight o'clock a number of boys and unemployed men had already started for the common to see the "dead men from Mars.
That was the form the story took.
I heard of it first from my newspaper boy about a quarter to nine when I went out to get my _Daily Chronicle_.
I have already described the appearance of that colossal bulk, embedded in the ground.
The turf and gravel about it seemed charred as if by a sudden explosion.
No doubt its impact had caused a flash of fire.
There was very little talking.
Few of the common people in England had anything but the vaguest astronomical ideas in those days.
Most of them were staring quietly at the big table like end of the cylinder, which was still as Ogilvy and Henderson had left it.
I fancy the popular expectation of a heap of charred corpses was disappointed at this inanimate bulk.
Some went away while I was there, and other people came.
I clambered into the pit and fancied I heard a faint movement under my feet.
The top had certainly ceased to rotate. It was only when I got thus close to it that the strangeness of this object was at all evident to me.
At the first glance it was really no more exciting than an overturned carriage or a tree blown across the road.
Not so much so, indeed.
It looked like a rusty gas float.
It required a certain amount of scientific education to perceive that the grey scale of the Thing was no common oxide, that the yellowish-white metal that gleamed in the crack between the lid and the cylinder had an unfamiliar hue.
Extra-terrestrial" had no meaning for most of the onlookers. At that time it was quite clear in my own mind that the Thing had come from the planet Mars, but I judged it improbable that it contained any living creature.
I thought the unscrewing might be automatic.
In spite of Ogilvy, I still believed that there were men in Mars.
My mind ran fancifully on the possibilities of its containing manuscript, on the difficulties in translation that might arise, whether we should find coins and models in it, and so forth.
Yet it was a little too large for assurance on this idea.
I felt an impatience to see it opened.
About eleven, as nothing seemed happening, I walked back, full of such thought, to my home in Maybury.
Besides that, there was quite a heap of bicycles.
The burning heather had been extinguished, but the level ground towards Ottershaw was blackened as far as one could see, and still giving off vertical streamers of smoke.
Stent was giving directions in a clear, high-pitched voice.
They wanted a light railing put up, and help to keep the people back.
He told me that a faint stirring was occasionally still audible within the case, but that the workmen had failed to unscrew the top, as it afforded no grip to them.
Scattered groups were hurrying from the direction of Woking, and one or two persons were returning.
The crowd about the pit had increased, and stood out black against the lemon yellow of the sky-a couple of hundred people, perhaps.
There were raised voices, and some sort of struggle appeared to be going on about the pit.
Strange imaginings passed through my mind.
As I drew nearer I heard Stent's voice: "Keep back!
Keep back!" A boy came running towards me. "It's a-movin'," he said to me as he passed; "a-screwin' and a-screwin' out.
I'm a-goin' 'ome, I am." I went on to the crowd.
Every one seemed greatly excited.
I heard a peculiar humming sound from the pit. "I say!" said Ogilvy; "help keep these idiots back.
Nearly two feet of shining screw projected.
Somebody blundered against me, and I narrowly missed being pitched onto the top of the screw.
I turned, and as I did so the screw must have come out, for the lid of the cylinder fell upon the gravel with a ringing concussion.
I stuck my elbow into the person behind me, and turned my head towards the Thing again.
For a moment that circular cavity seemed perfectly black.
I had the sunset in my eyes. I think everyone expected to see a man emerge-possibly something a little unlike us terrestrial men, but in all essentials a man.
But, looking, I presently saw something stirring within the shadow: greyish billowy movements, one above another, and then two luminous disks-like eyes.
Then something resembling a little grey snake, about the thickness of a walking stick, coiled up out of the writhing middle, and wriggled in the air towards me-and then another. A sudden chill came over me.
There was a loud shriek from a woman behind.
I half turned, keeping my eyes fixed upon the cylinder still, from which other tentacles were now projecting, and began pushing my way back from the edge of the pit.
I saw astonishment giving place to horror on the faces of the people about me.
I heard inarticulate exclamations on all sides.
There was a general movement backwards.
I saw the shopman struggling still on the edge of the pit.
I found myself alone, and saw the people on the other side of the pit running off, Stent among them.
I looked again at the cylinder, and ungovernable terror gripped me.
I stood petrified and staring. A big greyish rounded bulk, the size, perhaps, of a bear, was rising slowly and painfully out of the cylinder.
As it bulged up and caught the light, it glistened like wet leather. Two large dark-coloured eyes were regarding me steadfastly.
The mass that framed them, the head of the thing, was rounded, and had, one might say, a face.
There was a mouth under the eyes, the lipless brim of which quivered and panted, and dropped saliva.
The whole creature heaved and pulsated convulsively.
A lank tentacular appendage gripped the edge of the cylinder, another swayed in the air. Those who have never seen a living Martian can scarcely imagine the strange horror of its appearance.
There was something fungoid in the oily brown skin, something in the clumsy deliberation of the tedious movements unspeakably nasty.
Even at this first encounter, this first glimpse, I was overcome with disgust and dread. Suddenly the monster vanished.
It had toppled over the brim of the cylinder and fallen into the pit, with a thud like the fall of a great mass of leather.
The common round the sand-pits was dotted with people, standing like myself in a half-fascinated terror, staring at these creatures, or rather at the heaped gravel at the edge of the pit in which they lay.
And then, with a renewed horror, I saw a round, black object bobbing up and down on the edge of the pit.
Suddenly he vanished, and I could have fancied a faint shriek had reached me.
I had a momentary impulse to go back and help him that my fears overruled. Everything was then quite invisible, hidden by the deep pit and the heap of sand that the fall of the cylinder had made.
I remained standing knee-deep in the heather, staring at the mound that hid them.
I was a battleground of fear and curiosity. I did not dare to go back towards the pit, but I felt a passionate longing to peer into it.
I began walking, therefore, in a big curve, seeking some point of vantage and continually looking at the sand-heaps that hid these new-comers to our earth.
What could be going on there? Most of the spectators had gathered in one or two groups-one a little crowd towards Woking, the other a knot of people in the direction of Chobham.
Evidently they shared my mental conflict.
There were few near me.
One man I approached-he was, I perceived, a neighbour of mine, though I did not know his name-and accosted.
But it was scarcely a time for articulate conversation. "What ugly _brutes_!" he said.
He repeated this over and over again. "Did you see a man in the pit?
I said; but he made no answer to that. We became silent, and stood watching for a time side by side, deriving, I fancy, a certain comfort in one another's company.
The crowd far away on the left, towards Woking, seemed to grow, and I heard now a faint murmur from it.
The little knot of people towards Chobham dispersed.
Vertical black figures in twos and threes would advance, stop, watch, and advance again, spreading out as they did so in a thin irregular crescent that promised to enclose the pit in its attenuated horns.
I, too, on my side began to move towards the pit. Then I saw some cabmen and others had walked boldly into the sand-pits, and heard the clatter of hoofs and the gride of wheels.
I saw a lad trundling off the barrow of apples.
And then, within thirty yards of the pit, advancing from the direction of Horsell, I noted a little black knot of men, the foremost of whom was waving a white flag. This was the Deputation.
As the green smoke arose, their faces flashed out pallid green, and faded again as it vanished.
Then slowly the hissing passed into a humming, into a long, loud, droning noise.
It was as if some invisible jet impinged upon them and flashed into white flame.
All I felt was that it was something very strange.
And far away towards Knaphill I saw the flashes of trees and hedges and wooden buildings suddenly set alight. It was sweeping round swiftly and steadily, this flaming death, this invisible, inevitable sword of heat.
I perceived it coming towards me by the flashing bushes it touched, and was too astounded and stupefied to stir.
I heard the crackle of fire in the sand-pits and the sudden squeal of a horse that was as suddenly stilled.
Then it was as if an invisible yet intensely heated finger were drawn through the heather between me and the Martians, and all along a curving line beyond the sand-pits the dark ground smoked and crackled.
Something fell with a crash far away to the left where the road from Woking station opens out on the common.
Forth-with the hissing and humming ceased, and the black, dome-like object sank slowly out of sight into the pit. All this had happened with such swiftness that I had stood motionless, dumbfounded and dazzled by the flashes of light.
It was dark, and suddenly void of men.
Overhead the stars were mustering, and in the west the sky was still a pale, bright, almost greenish blue.
The tops of the pine trees and the roofs of Horsell came out sharp and black against the western afterglow.
The Martians and their appliances were altogether invisible, save for that thin mast upon which their restless mirror wobbled.
Such an extraordinary effect in unmanning me it had that I ran weeping silently as a child might do.
Many think that in some way they are able to generate an intense heat in a chamber of practically absolute non-conductivity.
This intense heat they project in a parallel beam against any object they choose, by means of a polished parabolic mirror of unknown composition, much as the parabolic mirror of a lighthouse projects a beam of light.
But no one has absolutely proved these details.
However it is done, it is certain that a beam of heat is the essence of the matter.
You may imagine the young people brushed up after the labours of the day, and making this novelty, as they would make any novelty, the excuse for walking together and enjoying a trivial flirtation.
There were three policemen too, one of whom was mounted, doing their best, under instructions from Stent, to keep the people back and deter them from approaching the cylinder.
After that they returned to lead that ill-fated advance.
Only the fact that a hummock of heathery sand intercepted the lower part of the Heat-Ray saved them.
Had the elevation of the parabolic mirror been a few yards higher, none could have lived to tell the tale.
They saw the flashes and the men falling and an invisible hand, as it were, lit the bushes as it hurried towards them through the twilight.
Sparks and burning twigs began to fall into the road, and single leaves like puffs of flame.
Hats and dresses caught fire.
Then came a crying from the common.
They must have bolted as blindly as a flock of sheep. Where the road grows narrow and black between the high banks the crowd jammed, and a desperate struggle occurred.
All about me gathered the invisible terrors of the Martians; that pitiless sword of heat seemed whirling to and fro, flourishing overhead before it descended and smote me out of life.
That was near the bridge that crosses the canal by the gasworks.
I fell and lay still. I must have remained there some time. I sat up, strangely perplexed.
For a moment, perhaps, I could not clearly understand how I came there.
My terror had fallen from me like a garment.
My hat had gone, and my collar had burst away from its fastener.
A few minutes before, there had only been three real things before me-the immensity of the night and space and nature, my own feebleness and anguish, and the near approach of death.
Now it was as if something turned over, and the point of view altered abruptly.
There was no sensible transition from one state of mind to the other.
I was immediately the self of every day again-a decent, ordinary citizen.
The silent common, the impulse of my flight, the starting flames, were as if they had been in a dream.
I asked myself had these latter things indeed happened?
I could not credit it. I rose and walked unsteadily up the steep incline of the bridge.
My mind was blank wonder.
My muscles and nerves seemed drained of their strength.
I dare say I staggered drunkenly.
A head rose over the arch, and the figure of a workman carrying a basket appeared.
Beside him ran a little boy.
He passed me, wishing me good night.
I was minded to speak to him, but did not.
A dim group of people talked in the gate of one of the houses in the pretty little row of gables that was called Oriental Terrace.
It was all so real and so familiar.
Such things, I told myself, could not be. Perhaps I am a man of exceptional moods.
I do not know how far my experience is common.
This feeling was very strong upon me that night.
Here was another side to my dream. But the trouble was the blank incongruity of this serenity and the swift death flying yonder, not two miles away.
There was a noise of business from the gasworks, and the electric lamps were all alight.
I stopped at the group of people. "What news from the common?" said I. There were two men and a woman at the gate. "Eh?" said one of the men, turning. "What news from the common?
I said. "Ain't yer just _been_ there?" asked the men. "People seem fair silly about the common," said the woman over the gate.
What's it all abart?" "Haven't you heard of the men from Mars?" said I; "the creatures from Mars?" "Quite enough," said the woman over the gate.
Thenks;" and all three of them laughed. I felt foolish and angry.
I tried and found I could not tell them what I had seen.
They laughed again at my broken sentences. "You'll hear more yet," I said, and went on to my home. I startled my wife at the doorway, so haggard was I.
I went into the dining room, sat down, drank some wine, and so soon as I could collect myself sufficiently I told her the things I had seen.
They may keep the pit and kill people who come near them, but they cannot get out of it. . . .
But the horror of them!" "Don't, dear!" said my wife, knitting her brows and putting her hand on mine. "Poor Ogilvy!
To think he may be lying dead there!" My wife at least did not find my experience incredible.
In particular I laid stress on the gravitational difficulty.
On the surface of the earth the force of gravity is three times what it is on the surface of Mars.
A Martian, therefore, would weigh three times more than on Mars, albeit his muscular strength would be the same.
His own body would be a cope of lead to him, therefore.
That, indeed, was the general opinion.
The invigorating influences of this excess of oxygen upon the Martians indisputably did much to counterbalance the increased weight of their bodies.
With wine and food, the confidence of my own table, and the necessity of reassuring my wife, I grew by insensible degrees courageous and secure. "They have done a foolish thing," said I, fingering my wineglass.
They are dangerous because, no doubt, they are mad with terror.
I remember that dinner table with extraordinary vividness even now.
I have already described the behaviour of the men and women to whom I spoke.
A boy from the town, trenching on Smith's monopoly, was selling papers with the afternoon's news.
The ringing impact of trucks, the sharp whistle of the engines from the junction, mingled with their shouts of "Men from Mars!
Excited men came into the station about nine o'clock with incredible tidings, and caused no more disturbance than drunkards might have done.
It was only round the edge of the common that any disturbance was perceptible.
There were half a dozen villas burning on the Woking border.
Save for such, that big area of common was silent and desolate, and the charred bodies lay about on it all night under the stars, and all the next day.
A noise of hammering from the pit was heard by many people. So you have the state of things on Friday night.
In the centre, sticking into the skin of our old planet Earth like a poisoned dart, was this cylinder.
But the poison was scarcely working yet.
Around it was a patch of silent common, smouldering in places, and with a few dark, dimly seen objects lying in contorted attitudes here and there. Here and there was a burning bush or tree.
Beyond was a fringe of excitement, and farther than that fringe the inflammation had not crept as yet.
In the rest of the world the stream of life still flowed as it had flowed for immemorial years.
The military authorities were certainly alive to the seriousness of the business.
It had a greenish colour, and caused a silent brightness like summer lightning.
This was the second cylinder. IX. THE FIGHTING BEGINS. Saturday lives in my memory as a day of suspense.
It was a day of lassitude too, hot and close, with, I am told, a rapidly fluctuating barometer.
I had slept but little, though my wife had succeeded in sleeping, and I rose early.
I went into my garden before breakfast and stood listening, but towards the common there was nothing stirring but a lark. The milkman came as usual.
I heard the rattle of his chariot and I went round to the side gate to ask the latest news.
He told me that during the night the Martians had been surrounded by troops, and that guns were expected.
It was a most unexceptional morning.
My neighbour was of opinion that the troops would be able to capture or to destroy the Martians during the day. "It's a pity they make themselves so unapproachable," he said.
At the same time he told me of the burning of the pine woods about the Byfleet Golf Links. "They say," said he, "that there's another of those blessed things fallen there-number two.
This lot'll cost the insurance people a pretty penny before everything's settled.
He laughed with an air of the greatest good humour as he said this.
The woods, he said, were still burning, and pointed out a haze of smoke to me.
I talked with these soldiers for a time; I told them of my sight of the Martians on the previous evening.
None of them had seen the Martians, and they had but the vaguest ideas of them, so that they plied me with questions.
They said that they did not know who had authorised the movements of the troops; their idea was that a dispute had arisen at the Horse Guards.
The ordinary sapper is a great deal better educated than the common soldier, and they discussed the peculiar conditions of the possible fight with some acuteness.
I described the Heat-Ray to them, and they began to argue among themselves. "Crawl up under cover and rush 'em, say I," said one. "Get aht!" said another.
What's cover against this 'ere 'eat?
What we got to do is to go as near as the ground'll let us, and then drive a trench." "Blow yer trenches!
Talk about fishers of men-fighters of fish it is this time!" "It ain't no murder killing beasts like that," said the first speaker. "Why not shell the darned things strite off and finish 'em?" said the little dark man.
You carn tell what they might do." "Where's your shells?" said the first speaker.
Do it in a rush, that's my tip, and do it at once." So they discussed it.
I did not succeed in getting a glimpse of the common, for even Horsell and Chobham church towers were in the hands of the military authorities.
The soldiers I addressed didn't know anything; the officers were mysterious as well as busy.
I found people in the town quite secure again in the presence of the military, and I heard for the first time from Marshall, the tobacconist, that his son was among the dead on the common.
About half past four I went up to the railway station to get an evening paper, for the morning papers had contained only a very inaccurate description of the killing of Stent, Henderson, Ogilvy, and the others.
But there was little I didn't know. The Martians did not show an inch of themselves.
They seemed busy in their pit, and there was a sound of hammering and an almost continuous streamer of smoke.
Apparently they were busy getting ready for a struggle.
Fresh attempts have been made to signal, but without success," was the stereotyped formula of the papers.
A sapper told me it was done by a man in a ditch with a flag on a long pole.
The Martians took as much notice of such advances as we should of the lowing of a cow. I must confess the sight of all this armament, all this preparation, greatly excited me.
My imagination became belligerent, and defeated the invaders in a dozen striking ways; something of my schoolboy dreams of battle and heroism came back.
It hardly seemed a fair fight to me at that time.
They seemed very helpless in that pit of theirs. About three o'clock there began the thud of a gun at measured intervals from Chertsey or Addlestone.
I learned that the smouldering pine wood into which the second cylinder had fallen was being shelled, in the hope of destroying that object before it opened.
The pinnacle of the mosque had vanished, and the roof line of the college itself looked as if a hundred-ton gun had been at work upon it.
Then I remembered her cousins at Leatherhead. "Leatherhead!
I shouted above the sudden noise. She looked away from me downhill.
I ran, for I perceived that in a moment everyone upon this side of the hill would be moving.
I found him in his bar, quite unaware of what was going on behind his house.
I'm selling my bit of a pig.
Two pounds, and you bring it back?
What's going on now?" I explained hastily that I had to leave my home, and so secured the dog cart.
At the time it did not seem to me nearly so urgent that the landlord should leave his.
The beech trees below the house were burning while I did this, and the palings up the road glowed red.
While I was occupied in this way, one of the dismounted hussars came running up.
He was going from house to house, warning people to leave.
He was going on as I came out of my front door, lugging my treasures, done up in a tablecloth.
I shouted after him: "What news?" He turned, stared, bawled something about "crawling out in a thing like a dish cover," and ran on to the gate of the house at the crest.
A sudden whirl of black smoke driving across the road hid him for a moment.
I ran to my neighbour's door and rapped to satisfy myself of what I already knew, that his wife had gone to London with him and had locked up their house.
I saw the doctor's cart ahead of me.
At the bottom of the hill I turned my head to look at the hillside I was leaving.
Thick streamers of black smoke shot with threads of red fire were driving up into the still air, and throwing dark shadows upon the green treetops eastward.
The smoke already extended far away to the east and west-to the Byfleet pine woods eastward, and to Woking on the west.
The road was dotted with people running towards us.
When I looked back again the second hill had hidden the black smoke.
I slashed the horse with the whip, and gave him a loose rein until Woking and Send lay between us and that quivering tumult.
I overtook and passed the doctor between Woking and Send. X. IN THE STORM. Leatherhead is about twelve miles from Maybury Hill.
The scent of hay was in the air through the lush meadows beyond Pyrford, and the hedges on either side were sweet and gay with multitudes of dog-roses.
The heavy firing that had broken out while we were driving down Maybury Hill ceased as abruptly as it began, leaving the evening very peaceful and still.
I talked to her reassuringly, pointing out that the Martians were tied to the pit by sheer heaviness, and at the utmost could but crawl a little out of it; but she answered only in monosyllables.
Had it not been for my promise to the innkeeper, she would, I think, have urged me to stay in Leatherhead that night.
Her face, I remember, was very white as we parted. For my own part, I had been feverishly excited all day.
Something very like the war fever that occasionally runs through a civilised community had got into my blood, and in my heart I was not so very sorry that I had to return to Maybury that night.
I was even afraid that that last fusillade I had heard might mean the extermination of our invaders from Mars.
I can best express my state of mind by saying that I wanted to be in at the death. It was nearly eleven when I started to return.
The night was unexpectedly dark; to me, walking out of the lighted passage of my cousins' house, it seemed indeed black, and it was as hot and close as the day.
Overhead the clouds were driving fast, albeit not a breath stirred the shrubs about us.
My cousins' man lit both lamps.
Happily, I knew the road intimately.
My wife stood in the light of the doorway, and watched me until I jumped up into the dog cart.
Then abruptly she turned and went in, leaving my cousins side by side wishing me good hap. I was a little depressed at first with the contagion of my wife's fears, but very soon my thoughts reverted to the Martians.
At that time I was absolutely in the dark as to the course of the evening's fighting.
I did not know even the circumstances that had precipitated the conflict.
As I came through Ockham (for that was the way I returned, and not through Send and Old Woking) I saw along the western horizon a blood-red glow, which as I drew nearer, crept slowly up the sky.
They said nothing to me as I passed.
As I ascended the little hill beyond Pyrford Church the glare came into view again, and the trees about me shivered with the first intimation of the storm that was upon me.
I felt a tug at the reins. I saw that the driving clouds had been pierced as it were by a thread of green fire, suddenly lighting their confusion and falling into the field to my left.
It was the third falling star! Close on its apparition, and blindingly violet by contrast, danced out the first lightning of the gathering storm, and the thunder burst like a rocket overhead.
The horse took the bit between his teeth and bolted. A moderate incline runs towards the foot of Maybury Hill, and down this we clattered.
Once the lightning had begun, it went on in as rapid a succession of flashes as I have ever seen.
The thunderclaps, treading one on the heels of another and with a strange crackling accompaniment, sounded more like the working of a gigantic electric machine than the usual detonating reverberations.
At first I took it for the wet roof of a house, but one flash following another showed it to be in swift rolling movement.
How can I describe it?
Can you imagine a milking stool tilted and bowled violently along the ground?
That was the impression those instant flashes gave.
And I was galloping hard to meet it!
The horse lay motionless (his neck was broken, poor brute!) and by the lightning flashes I saw the black bulk of the overturned dog cart and the silhouette of the wheel still spinning slowly.
In another moment the colossal mechanism went striding by me, and passed uphill towards Pyrford. Seen nearer, the Thing was incredibly strange, for it was no mere insensate machine driving on its way.
Machine it was, with a ringing metallic pace, and long, flexible, glittering tentacles (one of which gripped a young pine tree) swinging and rattling about its strange body.
It picked its road as it went striding along, and the brazen hood that surmounted it moved to and fro with the inevitable suggestion of a head looking about.
Behind the main body was a huge mass of white metal like a gigantic fisherman's basket, and puffs of green smoke squirted out from the joints of the limbs as the monster swept by me.
Aloo!"-and in another minute it was with its companion, half a mile away, stooping over something in the field.
A thin hail was now beginning, and as it came and went their figures grew misty and then flashed into clearness again.
Now and then came a gap in the lightning, and the night swallowed them up. I was soaked with hail above and puddle water below.
I struggled to my feet at last, and, crouching and making use of every chance of cover, I made a run for this.
I walked among the trees trying to find the footpath.
I staggered through the trees, fell into a ditch and bruised my knees against a plank, and finally splashed out into the lane that ran down from the College Arms.
I say splashed, for the storm water was sweeping the sand down the hill in a muddy torrent.
There in the darkness a man blundered into me and sent me reeling back. He gave a cry of terror, sprang sideways, and rushed on before I could gather my wits sufficiently to speak to him.
So heavy was the stress of the storm just at this place that I had the hardest task to win my way up the hill.
Before I could distinguish clearly how the man lay, the flicker of light had passed.
I stood over him waiting for the next flash.
Apparently his neck had been broken.
The lightning flashed for a third time, and his face leaped upon me.
I sprang to my feet.
It was the landlord of the Spotted Dog, whose conveyance I had taken. I stepped over him gingerly and pushed on up the hill.
I made my way by the police station and the College Arms towards my own house.
Nothing was burning on the hillside, though from the common there still came a red glare and a rolling tumult of ruddy smoke beating up against the drenching hail.
So far as I could see by the flashes, the houses about me were mostly uninjured.
By the College Arms a dark heap lay in the road. Down the road towards Maybury Bridge there were voices and the sound of feet, but I had not the courage to shout or to go to them.
I let myself in with my latchkey, closed, locked and bolted the door, staggered to the foot of the staircase, and sat down.
After a time I discovered that I was cold and wet, and with little pools of water about me on the stair carpet.
The window of my study looks over the trees and the railway towards Horsell Common.
In the hurry of our departure this window had been left open.
The passage was dark, and, by contrast with the picture the window frame enclosed, the side of the room seemed impenetrably dark.
I stopped short in the doorway. The thunderstorm had passed.
The towers of the Oriental College and the pine trees about it had gone, and very far away, lit by a vivid red glare, the common about the sand-pits was visible.
Every now and then a haze of smoke from some nearer conflagration drove across the window and hid the Martian shapes.
A sharp, resinous tang of burning was in the air. I closed the door noiselessly and crept towards the window.
As I did so, the view opened out until, on the one hand, it reached to the houses about Woking station, and on the other to the charred and blackened pine woods of Byfleet.
There was a light down below the hill, on the railway, near the arch, and several of the houses along the Maybury road and the streets near the station were glowing ruins.
The light upon the railway puzzled me at first; there were a black heap and a vivid glare, and to the right of that a row of yellow oblongs.
It was the strangest spectacle, that black expanse set with fire.
It reminded me, more than anything else, of the Potteries at night.
At first I could distinguish no people at all, though I peered intently for them.
Later I saw against the light of Woking station a number of black figures hurrying one after the other across the line. And this was the little world in which I had been living securely for years, this fiery chaos!
What had happened in the last seven hours I still did not know; nor did I know, though I was beginning to guess, the relation between these mechanical colossi and the sluggish lumps I had seen disgorged from the cylinder.
I began to ask myself what they could be. Were they intelligent mechanisms?
Such a thing I felt was impossible. Or did a Martian sit within each, ruling, directing, using, much as a man's brain sits and rules in his body?
I heard a slight scraping at the fence, and rousing myself from the lethargy that had fallen upon me, I looked down and saw him dimly, clambering over the palings.
At the sight of another human being my torpor passed, and I leaned out of the window eagerly. "Hist!" said I, in a whisper. He stopped astride of the fence in doubt.
Then he came over and across the lawn to the corner of the house.
He bent down and stepped softly. "Who's there?" he said, also whispering, standing under the window and peering up. "Where are you going?
I asked. "God knows." "Are you trying to hide?" "That's it." "Come into the house," I said. I went down, unfastened the door, and let him in, and locked the door again.
I could not see his face.
He was hatless, and his coat was unbuttoned. "My God!" he said, as I drew him in. "What has happened?
In the obscurity I could see he made a gesture of despair.
They wiped us out-simply wiped us out," he repeated again and again. He followed me, almost mechanically, into the dining room. "Take some whisky," I said, pouring out a stiff dose. He drank it.
He was a driver in the artillery, and had only come into action about seven.
The gun he drove had been unlimbered near Horsell, in order to command the sand-pits, and its arrival it was that had precipitated the action.
As the limber gunners went to the rear, his horse trod in a rabbit hole and came down, throwing him into a depression of the ground.
And the smell-good God! Like burnt meat!
I was hurt across the back by the fall of the horse, and there I had to lie until I felt better.
Just like parade it had been a minute before-then stumble, bang, swish! "Wiped out!" he said. He had hid under the dead horse for a long time, peeping out furtively across the common.
The Cardigan men had tried a rush, in skirmishing order, at the pit, simply to be swept out of existence.
Then the monster had risen to its feet and had begun to walk leisurely to and fro across the common among the few fugitives, with its headlike hood turning about exactly like the head of a cowled human being.
The hussars had been on the road beyond the curvature of the ground, and he saw nothing of them.
He heard the Maxims rattle for a time and then become still.
The giant saved Woking station and its cluster of houses until the last; then in a moment the Heat-Ray was brought to bear, and the town became a heap of fiery ruins.
Then the Thing shut off the Heat-Ray, and turning its back upon the artilleryman, began to waddle away towards the smouldering pine woods that sheltered the second cylinder.
As it did so a second glittering Titan built itself up out of the pit. The second monster followed the first, and at that the artilleryman began to crawl very cautiously across the hot heather ash towards Horsell.
He managed to get alive into the ditch by the side of the road, and so escaped to Woking.
There his story became ejaculatory.
It seems there were a few people alive there, frantic for the most part and many burned and scalded.
He was turned aside by the fire, and hid among some almost scorching heaps of broken wall as one of the Martian giants returned.
He saw this one pursue a man, catch him up in one of its steely tentacles, and knock his head against the trunk of a pine tree.
At last, after nightfall, the artilleryman made a rush for it and got over the railway embankment. Since then he had been skulking along towards Maybury, in the hope of getting out of danger Londonward.
People were hiding in trenches and cellars, and many of the survivors had made off towards Woking village and Send.
He grew calmer telling me and trying to make me see the things he had seen.
He had eaten no food since midday, he told me early in his narrative, and I found some mutton and bread in the pantry and brought it into the room.
We lit no lamp for fear of attracting the Martians, and ever and again our hands would touch upon bread or meat.
As he talked, things about us came darkly out of the darkness, and the trampled bushes and broken rose trees outside the window grew distinct.
It would seem that a number of men or animals had rushed across the lawn.
I began to see his face, blackened and haggard, as no doubt mine was also. When we had finished eating we went softly upstairs to my study, and I looked again out of the open window.
In one night the valley had become a valley of ashes.
The fires had dwindled now.
Never before in the history of warfare had destruction been so indiscriminate and so universal.
My plan was to return at once to Leatherhead; and so greatly had the strength of the Martians impressed me that I had determined to take my wife to Newhaven, and go with her out of the country forthwith.
For I already perceived clearly that the country about London must inevitably be the scene of a disastrous struggle before such creatures as these could be destroyed. Between us and Leatherhead, however, lay the third cylinder, with its guarding giants.
Had I been alone, I think I should have taken my chance and struck across country.
He made me ransack the house for a flask, which he filled with whisky; and we lined every available pocket with packets of biscuits and slices of meat.
Then we crept out of the house, and ran as quickly as we could down the ill-made road by which I had come overnight.
In the road lay a group of three charred bodies close together, struck dead by the Heat-Ray; and here and there were things that people had dropped-a clock, a slipper, a silver spoon, and the like poor valuables.
At the corner turning up towards the post office a little cart, filled with boxes and furniture, and horseless, heeled over on a broken wheel.
A cash box had been hastily smashed open and thrown under the debris. Except the lodge at the Orphanage, which was still on fire, none of the houses had suffered very greatly here.
The Heat-Ray had shaved the chimney tops and passed.
Yet, save ourselves, there did not seem to be a living soul on Maybury Hill.
In one place the woodmen had been at work on Saturday; trees, felled and freshly trimmed, lay in a clearing, with heaps of sawdust by the sawing-machine and its engine.
Hard by was a temporary hut, deserted.
There was not a breath of wind this morning, and everything was strangely still.
Even the birds were hushed, and as we hurried along I and the artilleryman talked in whispers and looked now and again over our shoulders.
Once or twice we stopped to listen. After a time we drew near the road, and as we did so we heard the clatter of hoofs and saw through the tree stems three cavalry soldiers riding slowly towards Woking.
We hailed them, and they halted while we hurried towards them.
What's brewing?" His voice and face were eager.
The men behind him stared curiously.
The artilleryman jumped down the bank into the road and saluted. "Gun destroyed last night, sir.
Trying to rejoin battery, sir.
You'll come in sight of the Martians, I expect, about half a mile along this road." "What the dickens are they like?" asked the lieutenant. "Giants in armour, sir.
Three legs and a body like 'luminium, with a mighty great head in a hood, sir." "Get out!" said the lieutenant.
What confounded nonsense!" "You'll see, sir.
You'd better go along and report yourself to Brigadier-General Marvin, and tell him all you know.
He's at Weybridge. Know the way?" "I do," I said; and he turned his horse southward again. "Half a mile, you say?" said he. "At most," I answered, and pointed over the treetops southward.
He thanked me and rode on, and we saw them no more. Farther along we came upon a group of three women and two children in the road, busy clearing out a labourer's cottage.
They had got hold of a little hand truck, and were piling it up with unclean-looking bundles and shabby furniture.
They were all too assiduously engaged to talk to us as we passed. By Byfleet station we emerged from the pine trees, and found the country calm and peaceful under the morning sunlight.
The gunners stood by the guns waiting, and the ammunition waggons were at a business-like distance. The men stood almost as if under inspection. "That's good!" said I.
Three or four black government waggons, with crosses in white circles, and an old omnibus, among other vehicles, were being loaded in the village street.
There were scores of people, most of them sufficiently sabbatical to have assumed their best clothes.
The soldiers were having the greatest difficulty in making them realise the gravity of their position.
We saw one shrivelled old fellow with a huge box and a score or more of flower pots containing orchids, angrily expostulating with the corporal who would leave them behind.
I stopped and gripped his arm. "Do you know what's over there?
I said, pointing at the pine tops that hid the Martians. "Eh?" said he, turning.
I was explainin' these is vallyble." "Death!
Death!" and leaving him to digest that if he could, I hurried on after the artillery-man.
At the corner I looked back.
Carts, carriages everywhere, the most astonishing miscellany of conveyances and horseflesh.
The respectable inhabitants of the place, men in golf and boating costumes, wives prettily dressed, were packing, river-side loafers energetically helping, children excited, and, for the most part, highly delighted at this astonishing variation of their Sunday experiences.
Patrols of soldiers-here no longer hussars, but grenadiers in white-were warning people to move now or to take refuge in their cellars as soon as the firing began.
We saw as we crossed the railway bridge that a growing crowd of people had assembled in and about the railway station, and the swarming platform was piled with boxes and packages.
Part of the time we spent helping two old women to pack a little cart.
The Wey has a treble mouth, and at this point boats are to be hired, and there was a ferry across the river.
On the Shepperton side was an inn with a lawn, and beyond that the tower of Shepperton Church-it has been replaced by a spire-rose above the trees. Here we found an excited and noisy crowd of fugitives.
As yet the flight had not grown to a panic, but there were already far more people than all the boats going to and fro could enable to cross.
People came panting along under heavy burdens; one husband and wife were even carrying a small outhouse door between them, with some of their household goods piled thereon.
One man told us he meant to try to get away from Shepperton station. There was a lot of shouting, and one man was even jesting.
The idea people seemed to have here was that the Martians were simply formidable human beings, who might attack and sack the town, to be certainly destroyed in the end.
The people who landed there from the boats went tramping off down the lane.
The big ferryboat had just made a journey.
Three or four soldiers stood on the lawn of the inn, staring and jesting at the fugitives, without offering to help.
The inn was closed, as it was now within prohibited hours. "What's that?" cried a boatman, and "Shut up, you fool!" said a man near me to a yelping dog.
Then the sound came again, this time from the direction of Chertsey, a muffled thud-the sound of a gun. The fighting was beginning.
Almost immediately unseen batteries across the river to our right, unseen because of the trees, took up the chorus, firing heavily one after the other.
Everyone stood arrested by the sudden stir of battle, near us and yet invisible to us.
Nothing was to be seen save flat meadows, cows feeding unconcernedly for the most part, and silvery pollard willows motionless in the warm sunlight. "The sojers'll stop 'em," said a woman beside me, doubtfully.
Yonder!" Quickly, one after the other, one, two, three, four of the armoured Martians appeared, far away over the little trees, across the flat meadows that stretched towards Chertsey, and striding hurriedly towards the river.
Little cowled figures they seemed at first, going with a rolling motion and as fast as flying birds. Then, advancing obliquely towards us, came a fifth.
Their armoured bodies glittered in the sun as they swept swiftly forward upon the guns, growing rapidly larger as they drew nearer.
There was no screaming or shouting, but a silence.
Then a hoarse murmur and a movement of feet-a splashing from the water.
A man, too frightened to drop the portmanteau he carried on his shoulder, swung round and sent me staggering with a blow from the corner of his burden.
A woman thrust at me with her hand and rushed past me.
I turned with the rush of the people, but I was not too terrified for thought.
The terrible Heat-Ray was in my mind.
That was it! "Get under water!
I shouted, unheeded. I faced about again, and rushed towards the approaching Martian, rushed right down the gravelly beach and headlong into the water.
A boatload of people putting back came leaping out as I rushed past.
The splashes of the people in the boats leaping into the river sounded like thunderclaps in my ears.
People were landing hastily on both sides of the river.
But the Martian machine took no more notice for the moment of the people running this way and that than a man would of the confusion of ants in a nest against which his foot has kicked.
The knees of its foremost legs bent at the farther bank, and in another moment it had raised itself to its full height again, close to the village of Shepperton.
Forthwith the six guns which, unknown to anyone on the right bank, had been hidden behind the outskirts of that village, fired simultaneously.
The sudden near concussion, the last close upon the first, made my heart jump.
The monster was already raising the case generating the Heat-Ray as the first shell burst six yards above the hood. I gave a cry of astonishment.
I saw and thought nothing of the other four Martian monsters; my attention was riveted upon the nearer incident.
Simultaneously two other shells burst in the air near the body as the hood twisted round in time to receive, but not in time to dodge, the fourth shell. The shell burst clean in the face of the Thing.
I could have leaped out of the water with that momentary exultation. The decapitated colossus reeled like a drunken giant; but it did not fall over.
It recovered its balance by a miracle, and, no longer heeding its steps and with the camera that fired the Heat-Ray now rigidly upheld, it reeled swiftly upon Shepperton.
The living intelligence, the Martian within the hood, was slain and splashed to the four winds of heaven, and the Thing was now but a mere intricate device of metal whirling to destruction.
It drove along in a straight line, incapable of guidance.
As the camera of the Heat-Ray hit the water, the latter had immediately flashed into steam. In another moment a huge wave, like a muddy tidal bore but almost scaldingly hot, came sweeping round the bend upstream.
I saw people struggling shorewards, and heard their screaming and shouting faintly above the seething and roar of the Martian's collapse. For a moment I heeded nothing of the heat, forgot the patent need of self-preservation.
I splashed through the tumultuous water, pushing aside a man in black to do so, until I could see round the bend.
The tentacles swayed and struck like living arms, and, save for the helpless purposelessness of these movements, it was as if some wounded thing were struggling for its life amid the waves.
Enormous quantities of a ruddy-brown fluid were spurting up in noisy jets out of the machine. My attention was diverted from this death flurry by a furious yelling, like that of the thing called a siren in our manufacturing towns.
A man, knee-deep near the towing path, shouted inaudibly to me and pointed.
Looking back, I saw the other Martians advancing with gigantic strides down the riverbank from the direction of Chertsey.
The Shepperton guns spoke this time unavailingly. At that I ducked at once under water, and, holding my breath until movement was an agony, blundered painfully ahead under the surface as long as I could.
The houses caved in as they dissolved at its touch, and darted out flames; the trees changed to fire with a roar.
I turned shoreward. In another moment the huge wave, well-nigh at the boiling-point had rushed upon me.
I screamed aloud, and scalded, half blinded, agonised, I staggered through the leaping, hissing water towards the shore.
Had my foot stumbled, it would have been the end.
I fell helplessly, in full sight of the Martians, upon the broad, bare gravelly spit that runs down to mark the angle of the Wey and Thames.
Cylinder followed cylinder on its interplanetary flight; every twenty-four hours brought them reinforcement.
And meanwhile the military and naval authorities, now fully alive to the tremendous power of their antagonists, worked with furious energy.
Over that, above the blackened heather and ruined buildings that stretched far and wide, stood one as sentinel, while the rest abandoned their vast fighting-machines and descended into the pit.
There were no oars in the boat, but I contrived to paddle, as well as my parboiled hands would allow, down the river towards Halliford and Walton, going very tediously and continually looking behind me, as you may well understand.
Halliford, it seemed, was deserted, and several of the houses facing the river were on fire.
It was strange to see the place quite tranquil, quite desolate under the hot blue sky, with the smoke and little threads of flame going straight up into the heat of the afternoon.
Never before had I seen houses burning without the accompaniment of an obstructive crowd.
At last, as the bridge at Walton was coming into sight round the bend, my fever and faintness overcame my fears, and I landed on the Middlesex bank and lay down, deadly sick, amid the long grass.
I suppose the time was then about four or five o'clock.
I got up presently, walked perhaps half a mile without meeting a soul, and then lay down again in the shadow of a hedge.
I seem to remember talking, wanderingly, to myself during that last spurt.
I was also very thirsty, and bitterly regretful I had drunk no more water.
I became aware of him as a seated figure in soot-smudged shirt sleeves, and with his upturned, clean-shaven face staring at a faint flickering that danced over the sky.
I asked abruptly. He shook his head. "You have been asking for water for the last hour," he said. For a moment we were silent, taking stock of each other.
I dare say he found me a strange enough figure, naked, save for my water-soaked trousers and socks, scalded, and my face and shoulders blackened by the smoke.
His face was a fair weakness, his chin retreated, and his hair lay in crisp, almost flaxen curls on his low forehead; his eyes were rather large, pale blue, and blankly staring.
He spoke abruptly, looking vacantly away from me. "What does it mean?" he said.
What do these things mean?" I stared at him and made no answer. He extended a thin white hand and spoke in almost a complaining tone. "Why are these things permitted?
What sins have we done?
The morning service was over, I was walking through the roads to clear my brain for the afternoon, and then-fire, earthquake, death!
As if it were Sodom and Gomorrah!
All our work undone, all the work-- What are these Martians?" "What are we?
I answered, clearing my throat. He gripped his knees and turned to look at me again.
For half a minute, perhaps, he stared silently. "I was walking through the roads to clear my brain," he said.
And suddenly-fire, earthquake, death!" He relapsed into silence, with his chin now sunken almost to his knees. Presently he began waving his hand. "All the work-all the Sunday schools-What have we done-what has Weybridge done?
We rebuilt it only three years ago.
The tremendous tragedy in which he had been involved-it was evident he was a fugitive from Weybridge-had driven him to the very verge of his reason. "Are we far from Sunbury?
I said, in a matter-of-fact tone. "What are we to do?" he asked.
Has the earth been given over to them?" "Are we far from Sunbury?" "Only this morning I officiated at early celebration--" "Things have changed," I said, quietly.
You must keep your head.
There is still hope." "Hope!" "Yes.
Plentiful hope-for all this destruction!" I began to explain my view of our position.
He listened at first, but as I went on the interest dawning in his eyes gave place to their former stare, and his regard wandered from me. "This must be the beginning of the end," he said, interrupting me.
The great and terrible day of the Lord!
When men shall call upon the mountains and the rocks to fall upon them and hide them-hide them from the face of Him that sitteth upon the throne!" I began to understand the position.
I ceased my laboured reasoning, struggled to my feet, and, standing over him, laid my hand on his shoulder. "Be a man!" said I.
You are scared out of your wits!
What good is religion if it collapses under calamity?
Think of what earthquakes and floods, wars and volcanoes, have done before to men!
Did you think God had exempted Weybridge?
He is not an insurance agent." For a time he sat in blank silence. "But how can we escape?" he asked, suddenly.
They are invulnerable, they are pitiless." "Neither the one nor, perhaps, the other," I answered.
And the mightier they are the more sane and wary should we be.
One of them was killed yonder not three hours ago." "Killed!" he said, staring about him.
How can God's ministers be killed?" "I saw it happen.
I proceeded to tell him.
That flicker in the sky tells of the gathering storm.
Yonder, I take it are the Martians, and Londonward, where those hills rise about Richmond and Kingston and the trees give cover, earthworks are being thrown up and guns are being placed.
A cockchafer came droning over the hedge and past us.
He was a medical student working for an imminent examination, and he heard nothing of the arrival until Saturday morning.
The telegram concluded with the words: "Formidable as they seem to be, the Martians have not moved from the pit into which they have fallen, and, indeed, seem incapable of doing so.
Probably this is due to the relative strength of the earth's gravitational energy.
The afternoon papers puffed scraps of news under big headlines.
They had nothing to tell beyond the movements of troops about the common, and the burning of the pine woods between Woking and Weybridge, until eight.
Then the _St. James's Gazette_, in an extra-special edition, announced the bare fact of the interruption of telegraphic communication.
This was thought to be due to the falling of burning pine trees across the line.
He made up his mind to run down that night to me, in order, as he says, to see the Things before they were killed.
He dispatched a telegram, which never reached me, about four o'clock, and spent the evening at a music hall. In London, also, on Saturday night there was a thunderstorm, and my brother reached Waterloo in a cab.
On the platform from which the midnight train usually starts he learned, after some waiting, that an accident prevented trains from reaching Woking that night.
The nature of the accident he could not ascertain; indeed, the railway authorities did not clearly know at that time.
They were busy making the necessary arrangements to alter the route of the Southampton and Portsmouth Sunday League excursions.
A nocturnal newspaper reporter, mistaking my brother for the traffic manager, to whom he bears a slight resemblance, waylaid and tried to interview him.
Few people, excepting the railway officials, connected the breakdown with the Martians. I have read, in another account of these events, that on Sunday morning "all London was electrified by the news from Woking.
As a matter of fact, there was nothing to justify that very extravagant phrase.
Plenty of Londoners did not hear of the Martians until the panic of Monday morning.
Those who did took some time to realise all that the hastily worded telegrams in the Sunday papers conveyed.
Maxims have been absolutely useless against their armour; the field guns have been disabled by them.
Flying hussars have been galloping into Chertsey.
The Martians appear to be moving slowly towards Chertsey or Windsor.
Great anxiety prevails in West Surrey, and earthworks are being thrown up to check the advance Londonward.
None of the telegrams could have been written by an eyewitness of their advance.
The Sunday papers printed separate editions as further news came to hand, some even in default of it.
But there was practically nothing more to tell people until late in the afternoon, when the authorities gave the press agencies the news in their possession.
There he heard allusions made to the invasion, and a special prayer for peace. Coming out, he bought a _Referee_.
He became alarmed at the news in this, and went again to Waterloo station to find out if communication were restored.
The omnibuses, carriages, cyclists, and innumerable people walking in their best clothes seemed scarcely affected by the strange intelligence that the newsvendors were disseminating.
People were interested, or, if alarmed, alarmed only on account of the local residents.
At the station he heard for the first time that the Windsor and Chertsey lines were now interrupted.
The porters told him that several remarkable telegrams had been received in the morning from Byfleet and Chertsey stations, but that these had abruptly ceased.
My brother could get very little precise detail out of them. "There's fighting going on about Weybridge" was the extent of their information. The train service was now very much disorganised.
Quite a number of people who had been expecting friends from places on the South-Western network were standing about the station.
One grey-headed old gentleman came and abused the South-Western Company bitterly to my brother.
It wants showing up," he said. One or two trains came in from Richmond, Putney, and Kingston, containing people who had gone out for a day's boating and found the locks closed and a feeling of panic in the air.
A man in a blue and white blazer addressed my brother, full of strange tidings. "There's hosts of people driving into Kingston in traps and carts and things, with boxes of valuables and all that," he said.
They come from Molesey and Weybridge and Walton, and they say there's been guns heard at Chertsey, heavy firing, and that mounted soldiers have told them to get off at once because the Martians are coming.
We heard guns firing at Hampton Court station, but we thought it was thunder.
What the dickens does it all mean?
These were the guns that were brought up from Woolwich and Chatham to cover Kingston.
There was an exchange of pleasantries: "You'll get eaten!
We're the beast-tamers!" and so forth.
On the bridge a number of loafers were watching a curious brown scum that came drifting down the stream in patches.
The sun was just setting, and the Clock Tower and the Houses of Parliament rose against one of the most peaceful skies it is possible to imagine, a sky of gold, barred with long transverse stripes of reddish-purple cloud.
There was talk of a floating body.
Dreadful catastrophe!" they bawled one to the other down Wellington Street.
Full description! Repulse of the Martians!
He had to give threepence for a copy of that paper. Then it was, and then only, that he realised something of the full power and terror of these monsters.
Masked batteries, chiefly of field guns, had been planted in the country about Horsell Common, and especially between the Woking district and London.
Five of the machines had been seen moving towards the Thames, and one, by a happy chance, had been destroyed.
In the other cases the shells had missed, and the batteries had been at once annihilated by the Heat-Rays.
Heavy losses of soldiers were mentioned, but the tone of the dispatch was optimistic. The Martians had been repulsed; they were not invulnerable.
They had retreated to their triangle of cylinders again, in the circle about Woking.
Signallers with heliographs were pushing forward upon them from all sides.
Guns were in rapid transit from Windsor, Portsmouth, Aldershot, Woolwich-even from the north; among others, long wire-guns of ninety-five tons from Woolwich.
No doubt, ran the report, the situation was of the strangest and gravest description, but the public was exhorted to avoid and discourage panic.
And one at least was disposed of-perhaps more.
The public would be fairly warned of the approach of danger, and elaborate measures were being taken for the protection of the people in the threatened southwestern suburbs.
Men came scrambling off buses to secure copies.
Certainly this news excited people intensely, whatever their previous apathy.
There was a man with his wife and two boys and some articles of furniture in a cart such as greengrocers use.
He was driving from the direction of Westminster Bridge; and close behind him came a hay waggon with five or six respectable-looking people in it, and some boxes and bundles.
The faces of these people were haggard, and their entire appearance contrasted conspicuously with the Sabbath-best appearance of the people on the omnibuses.
People in fashionable clothing peeped at them out of cabs.
They stopped at the Square as if undecided which way to take, and finally turned eastward along the Strand.
Some way behind these came a man in workday clothes, riding one of those old-fashioned tricycles with a small front wheel.
He was dirty and white in the face. My brother turned down towards Victoria, and met a number of such people.
He had a vague idea that he might see something of me.
He noticed an unusual number of police regulating the traffic.
Some of the refugees were exchanging news with the people on the omnibuses.
One was professing to have seen the Martians.
Boilers on stilts, I tell you, striding along like men.
Most of them were excited and animated by their strange experience. Beyond Victoria the public-houses were doing a lively trade with these arrivals.
We went out to look, and there were clouds of smoke to the south-nothing but smoke, and not a soul coming that way.
Then we heard the guns at Chertsey, and folks coming from Weybridge.
He was now very anxious on my account, and disturbed at the evident magnitude of the trouble.
His mind was inclined to run, even as mine had run on Saturday, on military details.
He was restless, and after supper prowled out again aimlessly.
He returned and tried in vain to divert his attention to his examination notes.
He went to bed a little after midnight, and was awakened from lurid dreams in the small hours of Monday by the sound of door knockers, feet running in the street, distant drumming, and a clamour of bells.
Red reflections danced on the ceiling.
For a moment he lay astonished, wondering whether day had come or the world gone mad.
What a devil of a row!" They both craned their heads out of the window, straining to hear what the policemen were shouting.
And presently men selling unnaturally early newspapers came bawling into the street: "London in danger of suffocation!
The Kingston and Richmond defences forced!
It was the dawn of the great panic.
The flying people on foot and in vehicles grew more numerous every moment.
Black Smoke!" he heard people crying, and again "Black Smoke!
The contagion of such a unanimous fear was inevitable.
As my brother hesitated on the door-step, he saw another newsvendor approaching, and got a paper forthwith.
They have smothered our batteries, destroyed Richmond, Kingston, and Wimbledon, and are advancing slowly towards London, destroying everything on the way.
It is impossible to stop them.
There is no safety from the Black Smoke but in instant flight." That was all, but it was enough.
The whole population of the great six-million city was stirring, slipping, running; presently it would be pouring _en masse_ northward. "Black Smoke!" the voices cried.
Fire!" The bells of the neighbouring church made a jangling tumult, a cart carelessly driven smashed, amid shrieks and curses, against the water trough up the street.
Sickly yellow lights went to and fro in the houses, and some of the passing cabs flaunted unextinguished lamps.
And overhead the dawn was growing brighter, clear and steady and calm. He heard footsteps running to and fro in the rooms, and up and down stairs behind him.
Hidden by a pine wood as they were, they seem to have been quite unsuspected by the Martian nearest to them.
They laid their guns as deliberately as if they had been on parade, and fired at about a thousand yards' range. The shells flashed all round him, and he was seen to advance a few paces, stagger, and go down.
Everybody yelled together, and the guns were reloaded in frantic haste.
The overthrown Martian set up a prolonged ululation, and immediately a second glittering giant, answering him, appeared over the trees to the south.
It would seem that a leg of the tripod had been smashed by one of the shells.
The whole of the second volley flew wide of the Martian on the ground, and, simultaneously, both his companions brought their Heat-Rays to bear on the battery.
The Martian who had been overthrown crawled tediously out of his hood, a small brown figure, oddly suggestive from that distance of a speck of blight, and apparently engaged in the repair of his support.
About nine he had finished, for his cowl was then seen above the trees again. It was a few minutes past nine that night when these three sentinels were joined by four other Martians, each carrying a thick black tube.
It was a crescent with twelve miles between its horns.
The signal rockets burst and rained their sparks through the night and vanished, and the spirit of all those watching batteries rose to a tense expectation.
Did they grasp that we in our millions were organized, disciplined, working together?
Or did they interpret our spurts of fire, the sudden stinging of our shells, our steady investment of their encampment, as we should the furious unanimity of onslaught in a disturbed hive of bees?
Did they dream they might exterminate us? (At that time no one knew what food they needed.) A hundred such questions struggled together in my mind as I watched that vast sentinel shape.
And in the back of my mind was the sense of all the huge unknown and hidden forces Londonward.
Were the powder mills at Hounslow ready as a snare?
Another nearer, and then another.
And then the Martian beside us raised his tube on high and discharged it, gunwise, with a heavy report that made the ground heave.
The one towards Staines answered him.
As I did so a second report followed, and a big projectile hurtled overhead towards Hounslow.
I expected at least to see smoke or fire, or some such evidence of its work.
But all I saw was the deep blue sky above, with one solitary star, and the white mist spreading wide and low beneath. And there had been no crash, no answering explosion.
The silence was restored; the minute lengthened to three. "What has happened?" said the curate, standing up beside me. "Heaven knows!" said I. A bat flickered by and vanished.
A distant tumult of shouting began and ceased.
The figure of the Martian grew smaller as he receded, and presently the mist and the gathering night had swallowed him up.
By a common impulse we clambered higher.
Towards Sunbury was a dark appearance, as though a conical hill had suddenly come into being there, hiding our view of the farther country; and then, remoter across the river, over Walton, we saw another such summit.
These hill-like forms grew lower and broader even as we stared. Moved by a sudden thought, I looked northward, and there I perceived a third of these cloudy black kopjes had risen. Everything had suddenly become very still.
Far away to the southeast, marking the quiet, we heard the Martians hooting to one another, and then the air quivered again with the distant thud of their guns.
But the earthly artillery made no reply. Now at the time we could not understand these things, but later I was to learn the meaning of these ominous kopjes that gathered in the twilight.
And where it came upon water some chemical action occurred, and the surface would be instantly covered with a powdery scum that sank slowly and made way for more.
The scum was absolutely insoluble, and it is a strange thing, seeing the instant effect of the gas, that one could drink without hurt the water from which it had been strained.
The vapour did not diffuse as a true gas would do.
From there we could see the searchlights on Richmond Hill and Kingston Hill going to and fro, and about eleven the windows rattled, and we heard the sound of the huge siege guns that had been put in position there.
The horns of the crescent slowly moved apart, until at last they formed a line from Hanwell to Coombe and Malden.
All night through their destructive tubes advanced.
Never once, after the Martian at St. George's Hill was brought down, did they give the artillery the ghost of a chance against them.
In the latter aim they certainly succeeded.
Sunday night was the end of the organised opposition to their movements.
After that no body of men would stand against them, so hopeless was the enterprise.
Even the crews of the torpedo-boats and destroyers that had brought their quick-firers up the Thames refused to stop, mutinied, and went down again.
People were fighting savagely for standing-room in the carriages even at two o'clock.
By midday a Martian had been seen at Barnes, and a cloud of slowly sinking black vapour drove along the Thames and across the flats of Lambeth, cutting off all escape over the bridges in its sluggish advance.
The front tire of the machine he got was punctured in dragging it through the window, but he got up and off, notwithstanding, with no further injury than a cut wrist.
Along the road people were standing in the roadway, curious, wondering.
He was passed by a number of cyclists, some horsemen, and two motor cars.
A mile from Edgware the rim of the wheel broke, and the machine became unridable.
He left it by the roadside and trudged through the village.
There were shops half opened in the main street of the place, and people crowded on the pavement and in the doorways and windows, staring astonished at this extraordinary procession of fugitives that was beginning.
He succeeded in getting some food at an inn. For a time he remained in Edgware not knowing what next to do.
The flying people increased in number.
Many of them, like my brother, seemed inclined to loiter in the place.
There was no fresh news of the invaders from Mars. At that time the road was crowded, but as yet far from congested.
Presently he came upon a stile, and, crossing it, followed a footpath northeastward.
He passed near several farmhouses and some little places whose names he did not learn.
He saw few fugitives until, in a grass lane towards High Barnet, he happened upon two ladies who became his fellow travellers.
It seems she had had a revolver all this time, but it had been under the seat when she and her companion were attacked.
She fired at six yards' distance, narrowly missing my brother.
The less courageous of the robbers made off, and his companion followed him, cursing his cowardice.
When my brother looked again they were retreating. "I'll sit here," said my brother, "if I may"; and he got upon the empty front seat.
He had hurried home, roused the women-their servant had left them two days before-packed some provisions, put his revolver under the seat-luckily for my brother-and told them to drive on to Edgware, with the idea of getting a train there.
He stopped behind to tell the neighbours.
He would overtake them, he said, at about half past four in the morning, and now it was nearly nine and they had seen nothing of him.
He told them of his own escape out of London, and all that he knew of these Martians and their ways.
The sun crept higher in the sky, and after a time their talk died out and gave place to an uneasy state of anticipation.
Several wayfarers came along the lane, and of these my brother gathered such news as he could.
Every broken answer he had deepened his impression of the great disaster that had come on humanity, deepened his persuasion of the immediate necessity for prosecuting this flight.
So, designing to cross the Great North Road, they went on towards Barnet, my brother leading the pony to save it as much as possible.
As the sun crept up the sky the day became excessively hot, and under foot a thick, whitish sand grew burning and blinding, so that they travelled only very slowly.
The hedges were grey with dust. And as they advanced towards Barnet a tumultuous murmuring grew stronger. They began to meet more people.
Mrs. Elphinstone suddenly cried out at a number of tongues of smoky red flame leaping up above the houses in front of them against the hot, blue sky.
The tumultuous noise resolved itself now into the disorderly mingling of many voices, the gride of many wheels, the creaking of waggons, and the staccato of hoofs.
The lane came round sharply not fifty yards from the crossroads. "Good heavens!" cried Mrs. Elphinstone.
What is this you are driving us into?" My brother stopped. For the main road was a boiling stream of people, a torrent of human beings rushing northward, one pressing on another.
Make way!" It was like riding into the smoke of a fire to approach the meeting point of the lane and road; the crowd roared like a fire, and the dust was hot and pungent.
And, indeed, a little way up the road a villa was burning and sending rolling masses of black smoke across the road to add to the confusion. Two men came past them.
Then a dirty woman, carrying a heavy bundle and weeping.
Go on!" cried the voices.
Way!" One man's hands pressed on the back of another.
My brother stood at the pony's head.
Irresistibly attracted, he advanced slowly, pace by pace, down the lane. Edgware had been a scene of confusion, Chalk Farm a riotous tumult, but this was a whole population in movement.
It is hard to imagine that host.
It had no character of its own.
The figures poured out past the corner, and receded with their backs to the group in the lane.
They are coming!" In one cart stood a blind man in the uniform of the Salvation Army, gesticulating with his crooked fingers and bawling, "Eternity! Eternity!
His voice was hoarse and very loud so that my brother could hear him long after he was lost to sight in the dust.
The horses' bits were covered with foam, their eyes bloodshot. There were cabs, carriages, shop-carts, waggons, beyond counting; a mail cart, a road-cleaner's cart marked "Vestry of St. Pancras," a huge timber waggon crowded with roughs.
A brewer's dray rumbled by with its two near wheels splashed with fresh blood. "Clear the way!" cried the voices.
Eter-nity!" came echoing down the road. There were sad, haggard women tramping by, well dressed, with children that cried and stumbled, their dainty clothes smothered in dust, their weary faces smeared with tears.
With many of these came men, sometimes helpful, sometimes lowering and savage.
Fighting side by side with them pushed some weary street outcast in faded black rags, wide-eyed, loud-voiced, and foul-mouthed.
The heat and dust had already been at work upon this multitude.
Their skins were dry, their lips black and cracked.
They were all thirsty, weary, and footsore.
And amid the various cries one heard disputes, reproaches, groans of weariness and fatigue; the voices of most of them were hoarse and weak.
Through it all ran a refrain: "Way!
The Martians are coming!" Few stopped and came aside from that flood.
The lane opened slantingly into the main road with a narrow opening, and had a delusive appearance of coming from the direction of London.
Yet a kind of eddy of people drove into its mouth; weaklings elbowed out of the stream, who for the most part rested but a moment before plunging into it again.
A little way down the lane, with two friends bending over him, lay a man with a bare leg, wrapped about with bloody rags.
I can't go on!" My brother woke from his torpor of astonishment and lifted her up, speaking gently to her, and carried her to Miss Elphinstone.
So soon as my brother touched her she became quite still, as if frightened. "Ellen!" shrieked a woman in the crowd, with tears in her voice-"Ellen!
My brother pushed the pony and chaise back into the hedge, and the man drove by and stopped at the turn of the way.
It was a carriage, with a pole for a pair of horses, but only one was in the traces.
He is dying fast, and very thirsty.
It is Lord Garrick." "Lord Garrick!" said my brother; "the Chief Justice?" "The water?" he said. "There may be a tap," said my brother, "in some of the houses.
I dare not leave my people." The man pushed against the crowd towards the gate of the corner house. "Go on!" said the people, thrusting at him.
They rolled hither and thither among the struggling feet of men and horses.
The man stopped and looked stupidly at the heap, and the shaft of a cab struck his shoulder and sent him reeling.
He gave a shriek and dodged back, and a cartwheel shaved him narrowly. "Way!" cried the men all about him.
Make way!" So soon as the cab had passed, he flung himself, with both hands open, upon the heap of coins, and began thrusting handfuls in his pocket.
The driver of the cart slashed his whip at my brother, who ran round behind the cart.
The multitudinous shouting confused his ears.
The man was writhing in the dust among his scattered money, unable to rise, for the wheel had broken his back, and his lower limbs lay limp and dead.
But he still clutched after his money, and regarded my brother fiercely, hammering at his arm with a handful of gold.
Go on!" shouted angry voices behind.
Way!" There was a smash as the pole of a carriage crashed into the cart that the man on horseback stopped.
My brother looked up, and the man with the gold twisted his head round and bit the wrist that held his collar. There was a concussion, and the black horse came staggering sideways, and the carthorse pushed beside it.
A hoof missed my brother's foot by a hair's breadth.
He released his grip on the fallen man and jumped back.
Let us go back!" he shouted, and began turning the pony round.
We cannot cross this-hell," he said and they went back a hundred yards the way they had come, until the fighting crowd was hidden.
As they passed the bend in the lane my brother saw the face of the dying man in the ditch under the privet, deadly white and drawn, and shining with perspiration.
The two women sat silent, crouching in their seat and shivering. Then beyond the bend my brother stopped again.
Miss Elphinstone was white and pale, and her sister-in-law sat weeping, too wretched even to call upon "George.
My brother was horrified and perplexed.
So soon as they had retreated he realised how urgent and unavoidable it was to attempt this crossing.
He turned to Miss Elphinstone, suddenly resolute. "We must go that way," he said, and led the pony round again. For the second time that day this girl proved her quality.
To force their way into the torrent of people, my brother plunged into the traffic and held back a cab horse, while she drove the pony across its head.
A waggon locked wheels for a moment and ripped a long splinter from the chaise.
In another moment they were caught and swept forward by the stream.
No!-point it at his horse." Then he began to look out for a chance of edging to the right across the road.
But once in the stream he seemed to lose volition, to become a part of that dusty rout.
They swept through Chipping Barnet with the torrent; they were nearly a mile beyond the centre of the town before they had fought across to the opposite side of the way.
Not only along the road through Barnet, but also through Edgware and Waltham Abbey, and along the roads eastward to Southend and Shoeburyness, and south of the Thames to Deal and Broadstairs, poured the same frantic rout.
I have set forth at length in the last chapter my brother's account of the road through Chipping Barnet, in order that my readers may realise how that swarming of black dots appeared to one of those concerned.
Never before in the history of the world had such a mass of human beings moved and suffered together.
The legendary hosts of Goths and Huns, the hugest armies Asia has ever seen, would have been but a drop in that current.
And this was no disciplined march; it was a stampede-a stampede gigantic and terrible-without order and without a goal, six million people unarmed and unprovisioned, driving headlong.
Over Ealing, Richmond, Wimbledon, it would have seemed as if some monstrous pen had flung ink upon the chart.
They do not seem to have aimed at extermination so much as at complete demoralisation and the destruction of any opposition.
They exploded any stores of powder they came upon, cut every telegraph, and wrecked the railways here and there.
They seemed in no hurry to extend the field of their operations, and did not come beyond the central part of London all that day.
It is possible that a very considerable number of people in London stuck to their houses through Monday morning.
About one o'clock in the afternoon the thinning remnant of a cloud of the black vapour appeared between the arches of Blackfriars Bridge.
The sixth star fell at Wimbledon.
My brother, keeping watch beside the women in the chaise in a meadow, saw the green flash of it far beyond the hills.
On Tuesday the little party, still set upon getting across the sea, made its way through the swarming country towards Colchester. The news that the Martians were now in possession of the whole of London was confirmed.
They had been seen at Highgate, and even, it was said, at Neasden.
But they did not come into my brother's view until the morrow. That day the scattered multitudes began to realise the urgent need of provisions.
As they grew hungry the rights of property ceased to be regarded.
Farmers were out to defend their cattle-sheds, granaries, and ripening root crops with arms in their hands.
A number of people now, like my brother, had their faces eastward, and there were some desperate souls even going back towards London to get food.
These were chiefly people from the northern suburbs, whose knowledge of the Black Smoke came by hearsay.
There was also a placard in Chipping Ongar announcing that large stores of flour were available in the northern towns and that within twenty-four hours bread would be distributed among the starving people in the neighbourhood.
But this intelligence did not deter him from the plan of escape he had formed, and the three pressed eastward all day, and heard no more of the bread distribution than this promise.
Nor, as a matter of fact, did anyone else hear more of it.
That night fell the seventh star, falling upon Primrose Hill.
It fell while Miss Elphinstone was watching, for she took that duty alternately with my brother.
Here there were rumours of Martians at Epping, and news of the destruction of Waltham Abbey Powder Mills in a vain attempt to blow up one of the invaders. People were watching for Martians here from the church towers.
My brother, very luckily for him as it chanced, preferred to push on at once to the coast rather than wait for food, although all three of them were very hungry.
By midday they passed through Tillingham, which, strangely enough, seemed to be quite silent and deserted, save for a few furtive plunderers hunting for food.
This was the ram _Thunder Child_.
She had never been out of England before, she would rather die than trust herself friendless in a foreign country, and so forth.
She seemed, poor woman, to imagine that the French and the Martians might prove very similar.
She had been growing increasingly hysterical, fearful, and depressed during the two days' journeyings.
Her great idea was to return to Stanmore.
Things had been always well and safe at Stanmore.
They would find George at Stanmore.... It was with the greatest difficulty they could get her down to the beach, where presently my brother succeeded in attracting the attention of some men on a paddle steamer from the Thames.
They sent a boat and drove a bargain for thirty-six pounds for the three.
The steamer was going, these men said, to Ostend. It was about two o'clock when my brother, having paid their fares at the gangway, found himself safely aboard the steamboat with his charges.
He would probably have remained longer had it not been for the sound of guns that began about that hour in the south.
As if in answer, the ironclad seaward fired a small gun and hoisted a string of flags.
A jet of smoke sprang out of her funnels. Some of the passengers were of opinion that this firing came from Shoeburyness, until it was noticed that it was growing louder.
At the same time, far away in the southeast the masts and upperworks of three ironclads rose one after the other out of the sea, beneath clouds of black smoke.
But my brother's attention speedily reverted to the distant firing in the south.
At that the captain on the bridge swore at the top of his voice with fear and anger at his own delay, and the paddles seemed infected with his terror.
Then, far away beyond the Crouch, came another, striding over some stunted trees, and then yet another, still farther off, wading deeply through a shiny mudflat that seemed to hang halfway up between sea and sky.
They were all stalking seaward, as if to intercept the escape of the multitudinous vessels that were crowded between Foulness and the Naze.
He was so fascinated by this and by the creeping danger away to the left that he had no eyes for anything seaward.
And then a swift movement of the steamboat (she had suddenly come round to avoid being run down) flung him headlong from the seat upon which he was standing.
There was a shouting all about him, a trampling of feet, and a cheer that seemed to be answered faintly.
When his eyes were clear again he saw the monster had passed and was rushing landward.
Big iron upperworks rose out of this headlong structure, and from that twin funnels projected and spat a smoking blast shot with fire.
Thus sunken, and seen in remote perspective, they appeared far less formidable than the huge iron bulk in whose wake the steamer was pitching so helplessly.
It would seem they were regarding this new antagonist with astonishment.
To their intelligence, it may be, the giant was even such another as themselves.
The _Thunder Child_ fired no gun, but simply drove full speed towards them.
It was probably her not firing that enabled her to get so near the enemy as she did.
They did not know what to make of her.
It hit her larboard side and glanced off in an inky jet that rolled away to seaward, an unfolding torrent of Black Smoke, from which the ironclad drove clear.
He held it pointing obliquely downward, and a bank of steam sprang from the water at its touch.
It must have driven through the iron of the ship's side like a white-hot iron rod through paper. A flicker of flame went up through the rising steam, and then the Martian reeled and staggered.
In another moment he was cut down, and a great body of water and steam shot high in the air.
At the sight of the Martian's collapse the captain on the bridge yelled inarticulately, and all the crowding passengers on the steamer's stern shouted together.
And then they yelled again.
For, surging out beyond the white tumult, drove something long and black, the flames streaming from its middle parts, its ventilators and funnels spouting fire. She was alive still; the steering gear, it seems, was intact and her engines working.
She headed straight for a second Martian, and was within a hundred yards of him when the Heat-Ray came to bear.
Then with a violent thud, a blinding flash, her decks, her funnels, leaped upward.
The Martian staggered with the violence of her explosion, and in another moment the flaming wreckage, still driving forward with the impetus of its pace, had struck him and crumpled him up like a thing of cardboard.
A boiling tumult of steam hid everything again. "Two!" yelled the captain. Everyone was shouting.
The fleet of refugees was scattering to the northeast; several smacks were sailing between the ironclads and the steamboat.
After a time, and before they reached the sinking cloud bank, the warships turned northward, and then abruptly went about and passed into the thickening haze of evening southward.
Everyone struggled to the rail of the steamer and peered into the blinding furnace of the west, but nothing was to be distinguished clearly.
A mass of smoke rose slanting and barred the face of the sun. The steamboat throbbed on its way through an interminable suspense. The sun sank into grey clouds, the sky flushed and darkened, the evening star trembled into sight.
It was deep twilight when the captain cried out and pointed.
My brother strained his eyes.
We stopped there all Sunday night and all the next day-the day of the panic-in a little island of daylight, cut off by the Black Smoke from the rest of the world.
We could do nothing but wait in aching inactivity during those two weary days. My mind was occupied by anxiety for my wife.
I figured her at Leatherhead, terrified, in danger, mourning me already as a dead man.
I paced the rooms and cried aloud when I thought of how I was cut off from her, of all that might happen to her in my absence.
My cousin I knew was brave enough for any emergency, but he was not the sort of man to realise danger quickly, to rise promptly.
What was needed now was not bravery, but circumspection.
My only consolation was to believe that the Martians were moving Londonward and away from her.
Such vague anxieties keep the mind sensitive and painful.
I grew very weary and irritable with the curate's perpetual ejaculations; I tired of the sight of his selfish despair.
After some ineffectual remonstrance I kept away from him, staying in a room-evidently a children's schoolroom-containing globes, forms, and copybooks.
There were signs of people in the next house on Sunday evening-a face at a window and moving lights, and later the slamming of a door.
But I do not know who these people were, nor what became of them.
We saw nothing of them next day.
When at last we crept across the sodden rooms and looked out again, the country northward was as though a black snowstorm had passed over it.
But later I perceived that we were no longer hemmed in, that now we might get away. So soon as I realised that the way of escape was open, my dream of action returned.
But the curate was lethargic, unreasonable. "We are safe here," he repeated; "safe here." I resolved to leave him-would that I had!
Wiser now for the artilleryman's teaching, I sought out food and drink.
I had found oil and rags for my burns, and I also took a hat and a flannel shirt that I found in one of the bedrooms.
When it was clear to him that I meant to go alone-had reconciled myself to going alone-he suddenly roused himself to come.
We went through Bushey Park, with its deer going to and fro under the chestnuts, and some men and women hurrying in the distance towards Hampton, and so we came to Twickenham.
These were the first people we saw. Away across the road the woods beyond Ham and Petersham were still afire.
Twickenham was uninjured by either Heat-Ray or Black Smoke, and there were more people about here, though none could give us news.
For the most part they were like ourselves, taking advantage of a lull to shift their quarters.
I have an impression that many of the houses here were still occupied by scared inhabitants, too frightened even for flight.
Here too the evidence of a hasty rout was abundant along the road.
I remember most vividly three smashed bicycles in a heap, pounded into the road by the wheels of subsequent carts.
We crossed Richmond Bridge about half past eight.
We hurried across the exposed bridge, of course, but I noticed floating down the stream a number of red masses, some many feet across.
I did not know what these were-there was no time for scrutiny-and I put a more horrible interpretation on them than they deserved.
We stood aghast at our danger, and had the Martian looked down we must immediately have perished.
We were so terrified that we dared not go on, but turned aside and hid in a shed in a garden.
There the curate crouched, weeping silently, and refusing to stir again. But my fixed idea of reaching Leatherhead would not let me rest, and in the twilight I ventured out again.
I went through a shrubbery, and along a passage beside a big house standing in its own grounds, and so emerged upon the road towards Kew.
The curate I left in the shed, but he came hurrying after me. That second start was the most foolhardy thing I ever did.
For it was manifest the Martians were about us.
In three strides he was among them, and they ran radiating from his feet in all directions.
He used no Heat-Ray to destroy them, but picked them up one by one.
Here we happened on no dead, though the night was too dark for us to see into the side roads of the place.
There was, however, water to drink; and I took a hatchet, which promised to be useful in our next house-breaking. We then crossed to a place where the road turns towards Mortlake.
Here there stood a white house within a walled garden, and in the pantry of this domicile we found a store of food-two loaves of bread in a pan, an uncooked steak, and the half of a ham.
I give this catalogue so precisely because, as it happened, we were destined to subsist upon this store for the next fortnight.
Bottled beer stood under a shelf, and there were two bags of haricot beans and some limp lettuces.
Everything in the kitchen leaped out, clearly visible in green and black, and vanished again.
And then followed such a concussion as I have never heard before or since.
I was knocked headlong across the floor against the oven handle and stunned.
Then things came to me slowly.
A bruise on my temple asserted itself. "Are you better?" asked the curate in a whisper. At last I answered him.
I sat up. "Don't move," he said.
The floor is covered with smashed crockery from the dresser.
You can't possibly move without making a noise, and I fancy _they_ are outside." We both sat quite silent, so that we could scarcely hear each other breathing.
And then the light filtered in, not through the window, which remained black, but through a triangular aperture between a beam and a heap of broken bricks in the wall behind us.
At the top of the window frame we could see an uprooted drainpipe.
The floor was littered with smashed hardware; the end of the kitchen towards the house was broken into, and since the daylight shone in there, it was evident the greater part of the house had collapsed.
I could just see the curate's face, a dim, oval shape, and his collar and cuffs.
Outside there began a metallic hammering, then a violent hooting, and then again, after a quiet interval, a hissing like the hissing of an engine.
These noises, for the most part problematical, continued intermittently, and seemed if anything to increase in number as time wore on.
Presently a measured thudding and a vibration that made everything about us quiver and the vessels in the pantry ring and shift, began and continued.
Once the light was eclipsed, and the ghostly kitchen doorway became absolutely dark.
For many hours we must have crouched there, silent and shivering, until our tired attention failed. . . . At last I found myself awake and very hungry.
I am inclined to believe we must have spent the greater portion of a day before that awakening. My hunger was at a stride so insistent that it moved me to action.
I told the curate I was going to seek food, and felt my way towards the pantry.
The thudding vibration continued with wearisome persistence.
I whispered for the curate several times, and at last felt my way to the door of the kitchen.
Through the aperture in the wall I could see the top of a tree touched with gold and the warm blue of a tranquil evening sky.
I gripped his arm, fearing he might cry out, and for a long time we crouched motionless.
Then I turned to see how much of our rampart remained.
The detachment of the plaster had left a vertical slit open in the debris, and by raising myself cautiously across a beam I was able to see out of this gap into what had been overnight a quiet suburban roadway.
Vast, indeed, was the change that we beheld. The fifth cylinder must have fallen right into the midst of the house we had first visited.
The building had vanished, completely smashed, pulverised, and dispersed by the blow.
The cylinder lay now far beneath the original foundations-deep in a hole, already vastly larger than the pit I had looked into at Woking.
The earth all round it had splashed under that tremendous impact-"splashed" is the only word-and lay in heaped piles that hid the masses of the adjacent houses.
It had behaved exactly like mud under the violent blow of a hammer.
Over that aspect we hung now on the very edge of the great circular pit the Martians were engaged in making.
It was one of those complicated fabrics that have since been called handling-machines, and the study of which has already given such an enormous impetus to terrestrial invention.
As it dawned upon me first, it presented a sort of metallic spider with five jointed, agile legs, and with an extraordinary number of jointed levers, bars, and reaching and clutching tentacles about its body.
Most of its arms were retracted, but with three long tentacles it was fishing out a number of rods, plates, and bars which lined the covering and apparently strengthened the walls of the cylinder.
The fighting-machines were coordinated and animated to an extraordinary pitch, but nothing to compare with this.
The artist had evidently made a hasty study of one of the fighting-machines, and there his knowledge ended.
He presented them as tilted, stiff tripods, without either flexibility or subtlety, and with an altogether misleading monotony of effect.
The pamphlet containing these renderings had a considerable vogue, and I mention them here simply to warn the reader against the impression they may have created.
They were no more like the Martians I saw in action than a Dutch doll is like a human being.
But then I perceived the resemblance of its grey-brown, shiny, leathery integument to that of the other sprawling bodies beyond, and the true nature of this dexterous workman dawned upon me.
With that realisation my interest shifted to those other creatures, the real Martians. Already I had had a transient impression of these, and the first nausea no longer obscured my observation.
Moreover, I was concealed and motionless, and under no urgency of action. They were, I now saw, the most unearthly creatures it is possible to conceive.
They were huge round bodies-or, rather, heads-about four feet in diameter, each body having in front of it a face.
This face had no nostrils-indeed, the Martians do not seem to have had any sense of smell, but it had a pair of very large dark-coloured eyes, and just beneath this a kind of fleshy beak.
In the back of this head or body-I scarcely know how to speak of it-was the single tight tympanic surface, since known to be anatomically an ear, though it must have been almost useless in our dense air.
In a group round the mouth were sixteen slender, almost whiplike tentacles, arranged in two bunches of eight each.
These bunches have since been named rather aptly, by that distinguished anatomist, Professor Howes, the _hands_.
Even as I saw these Martians for the first time they seemed to be endeavouring to raise themselves on these hands, but of course, with the increased weight of terrestrial conditions, this was impossible.
There is reason to suppose that on Mars they may have progressed upon them with some facility. The internal anatomy, I may remark here, as dissection has since shown, was almost equally simple.
The greater part of the structure was the brain, sending enormous nerves to the eyes, ear, and tactile tentacles. Besides this were the bulky lungs, into which the mouth opened, and the heart and its vessels.
The pulmonary distress caused by the denser atmosphere and greater gravitational attraction was only too evident in the convulsive movements of the outer skin. And this was the sum of the Martian organs.
Strange as it may seem to a human being, all the complex apparatus of digestion, which makes up the bulk of our bodies, did not exist in the Martians.
They did not eat, much less digest.
Instead, they took the fresh, living blood of other creatures, and _injected_ it into their own veins.
I have myself seen this being done, as I shall mention in its place.
But, squeamish as I may seem, I cannot bring myself to describe what I could not endure even to continue watching.
Our bodies are half made up of glands and tubes and organs, occupied in turning heterogeneous food into blood.
The digestive processes and their reaction upon the nervous system sap our strength and colour our minds. Men go happy or miserable as they have healthy or unhealthy livers, or sound gastric glands.
Two or three of these seem to have been brought in each cylinder, and all were killed before earth was reached.
They had little or no sense of fatigue, it would seem.
On earth they could never have moved without effort, yet even to the last they kept in action.
Among the lower animals, up even to those first cousins of the vertebrated animals, the Tunicates, the two processes occur side by side, but finally the sexual method superseded its competitor altogether.
Only one other part of the body had a strong case for survival, and that was the hand, "teacher and agent of the brain.
A hundred diseases, all the fevers and contagions of human life, consumption, cancers, tumours and such morbidities, never enter the scheme of their life.
At any rate, the seeds which the Martians (intentionally or accidentally) brought with them gave rise in all cases to red-coloured growths.
Only that known popularly as the red weed, however, gained any footing in competition with terrestrial forms.
The red creeper was quite a transitory growth, and few people have seen it growing.
For a time, however, the red weed grew with astonishing vigour and luxuriance.
It spread up the sides of the pit by the third or fourth day of our imprisonment, and its cactus-like branches formed a carmine fringe to the edges of our triangular window.
Now no surviving human being saw so much of the Martians in action as I did.
I take no credit to myself for an accident, but the fact is so.
And I assert that I watched them closely time after time, and that I have seen four, five, and (once) six of them sluggishly performing the most elaborately complicated operations together without either sound or gesture.
Their peculiar hooting invariably preceded feeding; it had no modulation, and was, I believe, in no sense a signal, but merely the expiration of air preparatory to the suctional operation.
I have a certain claim to at least an elementary knowledge of psychology, and in this matter I am convinced-as firmly as I am convinced of anything-that the Martians interchanged thoughts without any physical intermediation.
And I have been convinced of this in spite of strong preconceptions.
Before the Martian invasion, as an occasional reader here or there may remember, I had written with some little vehemence against the telepathic theory. The Martians wore no clothing.
Yet though they wore no clothing, it was in the other artificial additions to their bodily resources that their great superiority over man lay.
We men, with our bicycles and road-skates, our Lilienthal soaring-machines, our guns and sticks and so forth, are just in the beginning of the evolution that the Martians have worked out.
They have become practically mere brains, wearing different bodies according to their needs just as men wear suits of clothes and take a bicycle in a hurry or an umbrella in the wet.
One would have at least expected it in locomotion.
And in this connection it is curious to remark that even on this earth Nature has never hit upon the wheel, or has preferred other expedients to its development.
Almost all the joints of the machinery present a complicated system of sliding parts moving over small but beautifully curved friction bearings.
In this way the curious parallelism to animal motions, which was so striking and disturbing to the human beholder, was attained.
Such quasi-muscles abounded in the crablike handling-machine which, on my first peeping out of the slit, I watched unpacking the cylinder.
I turned to a scowling face, and silent, eloquent lips.
This it was which had caused the regular beating noise, and the rhythmic shocks that had kept our ruinous refuge quivering.
Yet terrible as was the danger we incurred, the attraction of peeping was for both of us irresistible.
And I recall now with a sort of wonder that, in spite of the infinite danger in which we were between starvation and a still more terrible death, we could yet struggle bitterly for that horrible privilege of sight.
He was as lacking in restraint as a silly woman.
He would weep for hours together, and I verily believe that to the very end this spoiled child of life thought his weak tears in some way efficacious.
And I would sit in the darkness unable to keep my mind off him by reason of his importunities.
He ate and drank impulsively in heavy meals at long intervals.
He slept little. As the days wore on, his utter carelessness of any consideration so intensified our distress and danger that I had, much as I loathed doing it, to resort to threats, and at last to blows.
That brought him to reason for a time.
Let me return to those first new experiences of mine.
After a long time I ventured back to the peephole, to find that the new-comers had been reinforced by the occupants of no fewer than three of the fighting-machines.
These last had brought with them certain fresh appliances that stood in an orderly manner about the cylinder.
The second handling-machine was now completed, and was busied in serving one of the novel contrivances the big machine had brought.
From this unseen receiver a little thread of green smoke rose vertically into the quiet air.
As I looked, the handling-machine, with a faint and musical clinking, extended, telescopic fashion, a tentacle that had been a moment before a mere blunt projection, until its end was hidden behind the mound of clay.
In another second it had lifted a bar of white aluminium into sight, untarnished as yet, and shining dazzlingly, and deposited it in a growing stack of bars that stood at the side of the pit.
I was sitting below, huddled up, listening with all my ears.
He made a sudden movement backward, and I, fearful that we were observed, crouched in a spasm of terror.
He came sliding down the rubbish and crept beside me in the darkness, inarticulate, gesticulating, and for a moment I shared his panic.
His gesture suggested a resignation of the slit, and after a little while my curiosity gave me courage, and I rose up, stepped across him, and clambered up to it.
At first I could see no reason for his frantic behaviour.
The twilight had now come, the stars were little and faint, but the pit was illuminated by the flickering green fire that came from the aluminium-making.
The whole picture was a flickering scheme of green gleams and shifting rusty black shadows, strangely trying to the eyes.
Over and through it all went the bats, heeding it not at all.
The sprawling Martians were no longer to be seen, the mound of blue-green powder had risen to cover them from sight, and a fighting-machine, with its legs contracted, crumpled, and abbreviated, stood across the corner of the pit.
As the green flames lifted I could see the oily gleam of his integument and the brightness of his eyes.
And suddenly I heard a yell, and saw a long tentacle reaching over the shoulder of the machine to the little cage that hunched upon its back.
Then something-something struggling violently-was lifted high against the sky, a black, vague enigma against the starlight; and as this black object came down again, I saw by the green brightness that it was a man.
For an instant he was clearly visible.
He was a stout, ruddy, middle-aged man, well dressed; three days before, he must have been walking the world, a man of considerable consequence.
I could see his staring eyes and gleams of light on his studs and watch chain.
He vanished behind the mound, and for a moment there was silence.
And then began a shrieking and a sustained and cheerful hooting from the Martians. I slid down the rubbish, struggled to my feet, clapped my hands over my ears, and bolted into the scullery.
The curate, I found, was quite incapable of discussion; this new and culminating atrocity had robbed him of all vestiges of reason or forethought.
Practically he had already sunk to the level of an animal.
But as the saying goes, I gripped myself with both hands.
It grew upon my mind, once I could face the facts, that terrible as our position was, there was as yet no justification for absolute despair.
Our chief chance lay in the possibility of the Martians making the pit nothing more than a temporary encampment.
Or even if they kept it permanently, they might not consider it necessary to guard it, and a chance of escape might be afforded us.
I also weighed very carefully the possibility of our digging a way out in a direction away from the pit, but the chances of our emerging within sight of some sentinel fighting-machine seemed at first too great.
And I should have had to do all the digging myself.
The curate would certainly have failed me. It was on the third day, if my memory serves me right, that I saw the lad killed.
It was the only occasion on which I actually saw the Martians feed.
After that experience I avoided the hole in the wall for the better part of a day.
I lost heart, and lay down on the scullery floor for a long time, having no spirit even to move.
But on the fourth or fifth night I heard a sound like heavy guns. It was very late in the night, and the moon was shining brightly.
Except for the pale glow from the handling-machine and the bars and patches of white moonlight the pit was in darkness, and, except for the clinking of the handling-machine, quite still.
That night was a beautiful serenity; save for one planet, the moon seemed to have the sky to herself.
I heard a dog howling, and that familiar sound it was that made me listen.
Then I heard quite distinctly a booming exactly like the sound of great guns.
Six distinct reports I counted, and after a long interval six again.
And that was all. IV. THE DEATH OF THE CURATE. It was on the sixth day of our imprisonment that I peeped for the last time, and presently found myself alone.
Instead of keeping close to me and trying to oust me from the slit, the curate had gone back into the scullery.
I was struck by a sudden thought.
I went back quickly and quietly into the scullery.
In the darkness I heard the curate drinking. I snatched in the darkness, and my fingers caught a bottle of burgundy. For a few minutes there was a tussle.
The bottle struck the floor and broke, and I desisted and rose.
We stood panting and threatening each other.
In the end I planted myself between him and the food, and told him of my determination to begin a discipline.
I divided the food in the pantry, into rations to last us ten days.
I would not let him eat any more that day.
In the afternoon he made a feeble effort to get at the food.
I had been dozing, but in an instant I was awake.
All day and all night we sat face to face, I weary but resolute, and he weeping and complaining of his immediate hunger.
It was, I know, a night and a day, but to me it seemed-it seems now-an interminable length of time. And so our widened incompatibility ended at last in open conflict.
For two vast days we struggled in undertones and wrestling contests.
He would neither desist from his attacks on the food nor from his noisy babbling to himself.
The rudimentary precautions to keep our imprisonment endurable he would not observe.
I had strange and hideous dreams whenever I slept.
On me and mine be the punishment laid.
We have sinned, we have fallen short.
There was poverty, sorrow; the poor were trodden in the dust, and I held my peace.
I preached acceptable folly-my God, what folly!-when I should have stood up, though I died for it, and called upon them to repent-repent! . . .
Oppressors of the poor and needy! . . .
The wine press of God!" Then he would suddenly revert to the matter of the food I withheld from him, praying, begging, weeping, at last threatening.
He began to raise his voice-I prayed him not to.
He perceived a hold on me-he threatened he would shout and bring the Martians upon us.
For a time that scared me; but any concession would have shortened our chance of escape beyond estimating.
I defied him, although I felt no assurance that he might not do this thing.
But that day, at any rate, he did not.
Then he slept awhile, and began again with renewed strength, so loudly that I must needs make him desist. "Be still!
Woe unto this unfaithful city!
To the inhabitants of the earth by reason of the other voices of the trumpet--" "Shut up!
I said, rising to my feet, and in a terror lest the Martians should hear us.
For God's sake--" "Nay," shouted the curate, at the top of his voice, standing likewise and extending his arms.
The word of the Lord is upon me!" In three strides he was at the door leading into the kitchen. "I must bear my witness!
It has already been too long delayed." I put out my hand and felt the meat chopper hanging to the wall.
In a flash I was after him.
I was fierce with fear.
Before he was halfway across the kitchen I had overtaken him.
With one last touch of humanity I turned the blade back and struck him with the butt.
He went headlong forward and lay stretched on the ground.
I stumbled over him and stood panting.
He lay still. Suddenly I heard a noise without, the run and smash of slipping plaster, and the triangular aperture in the wall was darkened.
I looked up and saw the lower surface of a handling-machine coming slowly across the hole.
One of its gripping limbs curled amid the debris; another limb appeared, feeling its way over the fallen beams.
The tentacle was now some way, two yards or more, in the room, and twisting and turning, with queer sudden movements, this way and that.
For a while I stood fascinated by that slow, fitful advance. Then, with a faint, hoarse cry, I forced myself across the scullery.
I trembled violently; I could scarcely stand upright.
I opened the door of the coal cellar, and stood there in the darkness staring at the faintly lit doorway into the kitchen, and listening.
Had the Martian seen me?
Then a heavy body-I knew too well what-was dragged across the floor of the kitchen towards the opening.
Irresistibly attracted, I crept to the door and peeped into the kitchen.
In the triangle of bright outer sunlight I saw the Martian, in its Briareus of a handling-machine, scrutinizing the curate's head.
Every now and then I paused, rigid, to hear if the Martian had thrust its tentacles through the opening again. Then the faint metallic jingle returned.
I traced it slowly feeling over the kitchen.
Presently I heard it nearer-in the scullery, as I judged.
I thought that its length might be insufficient to reach me.
It passed, scraping faintly across the cellar door. An age of almost intolerable suspense intervened; then I heard it fumbling at the latch!
It had found the door!
It was like a black worm swaying its blind head to and fro. Once, even, it touched the heel of my boot.
I was on the verge of screaming; I bit my hand.
For a time the tentacle was silent.
I could have fancied it had been withdrawn.
Presently, with an abrupt click, it gripped something-I thought it had me!-and seemed to go out of the cellar again.
For a minute I was not sure.
Apparently it had taken a lump of coal to examine. I seized the opportunity of slightly shifting my position, which had become cramped, and then listened.
I heard it go into the pantry, and the biscuit-tins rattled and a bottle smashed, and then came a heavy bump against the cellar door.
It was the eleventh day before I ventured so far from my security. V. THE STILLNESS. My first act before I went into the pantry was to fasten the door between the kitchen and the scullery.
But the pantry was empty; every scrap of food had gone.
Apparently, the Martian had taken it all on the previous day.
At that discovery I despaired for the first time.
I took no food, or no drink either, on the eleventh or the twelfth day. At first my mouth and throat were parched, and my strength ebbed sensibly.
I sat about in the darkness of the scullery, in a state of despondent wretchedness.
My mind ran on eating.
I thought I had become deaf, for the noises of movement I had been accustomed to hear from the pit had ceased absolutely.
The light that came into the scullery was no longer grey, but red.
Going into the kitchen, I saw a dog's nose peering in through a break among the ruddy fronds.
Once or twice I heard a faint pitter-patter like the feet of the dog going hither and thither on the sand far below me, and there were more birdlike sounds, but that was all.
All the machinery had gone.
I could see in any direction save behind me, to the north, and neither Martians nor sign of Martians were to be seen.
The pit dropped sheerly from my feet, but a little way along the rubbish afforded a practicable slope to the summit of the ruins.
My chance of escape had come.
To the northward, too, no Martian was visible. When I had last seen this part of Sheen in the daylight it had been a straggling street of comfortable white and red houses, interspersed with abundant shady trees.
Now I stood on a mound of smashed brickwork, clay, and gravel, over which spread a multitude of red cactus-shaped plants, knee-high, without a solitary terrestrial growth to dispute their footing.
The red weed grew tumultuously in their roofless rooms.
Below me was the great pit, with the crows struggling for its refuse.
A number of other birds hopped about among the ruins.
Far away I saw a gaunt cat slink crouchingly along a wall, but traces of men there were none. The day seemed, by contrast with my recent confinement, dazzlingly bright, the sky a glowing blue.
A gentle breeze kept the red weed that covered every scrap of unoccupied ground gently swaying.
I had not realised what had been happening to the world, had not anticipated this startling vision of unfamiliar things.
I felt as a rabbit might feel returning to his burrow and suddenly confronted by the work of a dozen busy navvies digging the foundations of a house.
In the direction away from the pit I saw, beyond a red-covered wall, a patch of garden ground unburied.
This gave me a hint, and I went knee-deep, and sometimes neck-deep, in the red weed.
The density of the weed gave me a reassuring sense of hiding.
The wall was some six feet high, and when I attempted to clamber it I found I could not lift my feet to the crest.
So I went along by the side of it, and came to a corner and a rockwork that enabled me to get to the top, and tumble into the garden I coveted.
These fragments of nourishment served only to whet my hunger.
At first I was surprised at this flood in a hot, dry summer, but afterwards I discovered that it was caused by the tropical exuberance of the red weed.
Directly this extraordinary growth encountered water it straightway became gigantic and of unparalleled fecundity.
A cankering disease, due, it is believed, to the action of certain bacteria, presently seized upon it.
Now by the action of natural selection, all terrestrial plants have acquired a resisting power against bacterial diseases-they never succumb without a severe struggle, but the red weed rotted like a thing already dead.
The fronds became bleached, and then shrivelled and brittle.
They broke off at the least touch, and the waters that had stimulated their early growth carried their last vestiges out to sea. My first act on coming to this water was, of course, to slake my thirst.
I drank a great deal of it and, moved by an impulse, gnawed some fronds of red weed; but they were watery, and had a sickly, metallic taste.
I found the water was sufficiently shallow for me to wade securely, although the red weed impeded my feet a little; but the flood evidently got deeper towards the river, and I turned back to Mortlake.
The red weed was less abundant; the tall trees along the lane were free from the red creeper.
I hunted for food among the trees, finding nothing, and I also raided a couple of silent houses, but they had already been broken into and ransacked.
I rested for the remainder of the daylight in a shrubbery, being, in my enfeebled condition, too fatigued to push on. All this time I saw no human beings, and no signs of the Martians.
I encountered a couple of hungry-looking dogs, but both hurried circuitously away from the advances I made them.
Near Roehampton I had seen two human skeletons-not bodies, but skeletons, picked clean-and in the wood by me I found the crushed and scattered bones of several cats and rabbits and the skull of a sheep.
But though I gnawed parts of these in my mouth, there was nothing to be got from them. After sunset I struggled on along the road towards Putney, where I think the Heat-Ray must have been used for some reason.
And in the garden beyond Roehampton I got a quantity of immature potatoes, sufficient to stay my hunger.
From this garden one looked down upon Putney and the river.
The aspect of the place in the dusk was singularly desolate: blackened trees, blackened, desolate ruins, and down the hill the sheets of the flooded river, red-tinged with the weed.
It filled me with indescribable terror to think how swiftly that desolating change had come. For a time I believed that mankind had been swept out of existence, and that I stood there alone, the last man left alive.
Hard by the top of Putney Hill I came upon another skeleton, with the arms dislocated and removed several yards from the rest of the body.
As I proceeded I became more and more convinced that the extermination of mankind was, save for such stragglers as myself, already accomplished in this part of the world.
The Martians, I thought, had gone on and left the country desolated, seeking food elsewhere.
The place had been already searched and emptied.
In the bar I afterwards found some biscuits and sandwiches that had been overlooked.
The latter I could not eat, they were too rotten, but the former not only stayed my hunger, but filled my pockets.
I lit no lamps, fearing some Martian might come beating that part of London for food in the night.
Before I went to bed I had an interval of restlessness, and prowled from window to window, peering out for some sign of these monsters.
As I lay in bed I found myself thinking consecutively-a thing I do not remember to have done since my last argument with the curate.
During all the intervening time my mental condition had been a hurrying succession of vague emotional states or a sort of stupid receptivity.
The former gave me no sensation of horror or remorse to recall; I saw it simply as a thing done, a memory infinitely disagreeable but quite without the quality of remorse.
I saw myself then as I see myself now, driven step by step towards that hasty blow, the creature of a sequence of accidents leading inevitably to that.
I felt no condemnation; yet the memory, static, unprogressive, haunted me.
In the silence of the night, with that sense of the nearness of God that sometimes comes into the stillness and the darkness, I stood my trial, my only trial, for that moment of wrath and fear.
I retraced every step of our conversation from the moment when I had found him crouching beside me, heedless of my thirst, and pointing to the fire and smoke that streamed up from the ruins of Weybridge.
We had been incapable of co-operation-grim chance had taken no heed of that.
Had I foreseen, I should have left him at Halliford.
But I did not foresee; and crime is to foresee and do.
And I set this down as I have set all this story down, as it was.
There were no witnesses-all these things I might have concealed.
For the former I had no data; I could imagine a hundred things, and so, unhappily, I could for the latter.
And suddenly that night became terrible.
I found myself sitting up in bed, staring at the dark.
I found myself praying that the Heat-Ray might have suddenly and painlessly struck her out of being.
Since the night of my return from Leatherhead I had not prayed.
I had uttered prayers, fetish prayers, had prayed as heathens mutter charms when I was in extremity; but now I prayed indeed, pleading steadfastly and sanely, face to face with the darkness of God.
Perhaps they also prayed confidently to God.
Surely, if we have learned nothing else, this war has taught us pity-pity for those witless souls that suffer our dominion. The morning was bright and fine, and the eastern sky glowed pink, and was fretted with little golden clouds.
In the road that runs from the top of Putney Hill to Wimbledon was a number of poor vestiges of the panic torrent that must have poured Londonward on the Sunday night after the fighting began.
My movements were languid, my plans of the vaguest.
I had an idea of going to Leatherhead, though I knew that there I had the poorest chance of finding my wife.
Certainly, unless death had overtaken them suddenly, my cousins and she would have fled thence; but it seemed to me I might find or learn there whither the Surrey people had fled.
I knew I wanted to find my wife, that my heart ached for her and the world of men, but I had no clear idea how the finding might be done.
I was also sharply aware now of my intense loneliness.
I came upon a busy swarm of little frogs in a swampy place among the trees.
I stopped to look at them, drawing a lesson from their stout resolve to live.
And presently, turning suddenly, with an odd feeling of being watched, I beheld something crouching amid a clump of bushes. I stood regarding this.
I made a step towards it, and it rose up and became a man armed with a cutlass.
He stood silent and motionless, regarding me. As I drew nearer I perceived he was dressed in clothes as dusty and filthy as my own; he looked, indeed, as though he had been dragged through a culvert.
Nearer, I distinguished the green slime of ditches mixing with the pale drab of dried clay and shiny, coaly patches.
His black hair fell over his eyes, and his face was dark and dirty and sunken, so that at first I did not recognise him.
There was a red cut across the lower part of his face. "Stop!" he cried, when I was within ten yards of him, and I stopped. His voice was hoarse.
Where do you come from?" he said. I thought, surveying him. "I come from Mortlake," I said.
I was buried near the pit the Martians made about their cylinder.
I have worked my way out and escaped." "There is no food about here," he said.
All this hill down to the river, and back to Clapham, and up to the edge of the common.
There is only food for one.
Which way are you going?" I answered slowly. "I don't know," I said.
I have been buried in the ruins of a house thirteen or fourteen days.
I don't know what has happened." He looked at me doubtfully, then started, and looked with a changed expression. "I've no wish to stop about here," said I.
I think I shall go to Leatherhead, for my wife was there." He shot out a pointing finger. "It is you," said he; "the man from Woking.
And you weren't killed at Weybridge?" I recognised him at the same moment. "You are the artilleryman who came into my garden." "Good luck!" he said.
He put out a hand, and I took it.
I crawled up a drain," he said.
But they didn't kill everyone.
And after they went away I got off towards Walton across the fields.
But-- It's not sixteen days altogether-and your hair is grey.
He looked over his shoulder suddenly.
Only a rook," he said. "One gets to know that birds have shadows these days.
This is a bit open.
Let us crawl under those bushes and talk." "Have you seen any Martians?
Since I crawled out--" "They've gone away across London," he said.
I guess they've got a bigger camp there.
Of a night, all over there, Hampstead way, the sky is alive with their lights.
It's like a great city, and in the glare you can just see them moving.
But nearer-I haven't seen them-" (he counted on his fingers) "five days.
Then I saw a couple across Hammersmith way carrying something big.
And the night before last"-he stopped and spoke impressively-"it was just a matter of lights, but it was something up in the air.
If they can do that they will simply go round the world." He nodded. "They will.
But-- It will relieve things over here a bit.
And besides--" He looked at me.
Aren't you satisfied it _is_ up with humanity?
I am. We're down; we're beat." I stared.
Strange as it may seem, I had not arrived at this fact-a fact perfectly obvious so soon as he spoke.
I had still held a vague hope; rather, I had kept a lifelong habit of mind.
He repeated his words, "We're beat.
They carried absolute conviction. "It's all over," he said.
And they've made their footing good and crippled the greatest power in the world. They've walked over us.
The death of that one at Weybridge was an accident.
And these are only pioneers.
These green stars-I've seen none these five or six days, but I've no doubt they're falling somewhere every night.
We're beat!" I made him no answer.
I sat staring before me, trying in vain to devise some countervailing thought. "This isn't a war," said the artilleryman.
He thought. "Something wrong with the gun," he said.
But what if there is?
They'll get it right again.
And even if there's a delay, how can it alter the end?
It's just men and ants.
There's the ants builds their cities, live their lives, have wars, revolutions, until the men want them out of the way, and then they go out of the way.
That's what we are now-just ants. Only--" "Yes," I said. "We're eatable ants." We sat looking at each other. "And what will they do with us?
I said. "That's what I've been thinking," he said; "that's what I've been thinking.
After Weybridge I went south-thinking.
I saw what was up. Most of the people were hard at it squealing and exciting themselves. But I'm not so fond of squealing.
I've been in sight of death once or twice; I'm not an ornamental soldier, and at the best and worst, death-it's just death.
And it's the man that keeps on thinking comes through.
I saw everyone tracking away south.
Says I, 'Food won't last this way,' and I turned right back.
I went for the Martians like a sparrow goes for man.
All round"-he waved a hand to the horizon-"they're starving in heaps, bolting, treading on each other. . . ." He saw my face, and halted awkwardly. "No doubt lots who had money have gone away to France," he said.
He seemed to hesitate whether to apologise, met my eyes, and went on: "There's food all about here.
Canned things in shops; wines, spirits, mineral waters; and the water mains and drains are empty.
Well, I was telling you what I was thinking.
Here's intelligent things,' I said, 'and it seems they want us for food.
First, they'll smash us up-ships, machines, guns, cities, all the order and organisation.
If we were the size of ants we might pull through.
But we're not. It's all too bulky to stop.
Eh?" I assented. "It is; I've thought it out.
Very well, then-next; at present we're caught as we're wanted.
A Martian has only to go a few miles to get a crowd on the run.
And I saw one, one day, out by Wandsworth, picking houses to pieces and routing among the wreckage.
But they won't keep on doing that.
So soon as they've settled all our guns and ships, and smashed our railways, and done all the things they are doing over there, they will begin catching us systematic, picking the best and storing us in cages and things.
That's what they will start doing in a bit.
They haven't begun on us yet.
Don't you see that?" "Not begun!
All that's happened so far is through our not having the sense to keep quiet-worrying them with guns and such foolery.
And losing our heads, and rushing off in crowds to where there wasn't any more safety than where we were.
They don't want to bother us yet. They're making their things-making all the things they couldn't bring with them, getting things ready for the rest of their people.
Very likely that's why the cylinders have stopped for a bit, for fear of hitting those who are here.
And instead of our rushing about blind, on the howl, or getting dynamite on the chance of busting them up, we've got to fix ourselves up according to the new state of affairs.
That's how I figure it out.
It isn't quite according to what a man wants for his species, but it's about what the facts point to.
And that's the principle I acted upon.
Cities, nations, civilisation, progress-it's all over.
If it's amusement you're after, I reckon the game is up. If you've got any drawing-room manners or a dislike to eating peas with a knife or dropping aitches, you'd better chuck 'em away.
They ain't no further use." "You mean--" "I mean that men like me are going on living-for the sake of the breed. I tell you, I'm grim set on living.
And if I'm not mistaken, you'll show what insides _you've_ got, too, before long.
We aren't going to be exterminated.
And I don't mean to be caught either, and tamed and fattened and bred like a thundering ox.
Fancy those brown creepers!" "You don't mean to say--" "I do.
I'm going on, under their feet.
I've got it planned; I've thought it out.
We've got to learn before we've got a chance.
And we've got to live and keep independent while we learn.
That's what has to be done." I stared, astonished, and stirred profoundly by the man's resolution. "Great God!" cried I.
But you are a man indeed!
And suddenly I gripped his hand. "Eh!" he said, with his eyes shining.
I've thought it out, eh?" "Go on," I said. "Well, those who mean to escape their catching must get ready.
Mind you, it isn't all of us that are made for wild beasts; and that's what it's got to be.
That's why I watched you.
I didn't know that it was you, you see, or just how you'd been buried.
All these-the sort of people that lived in these houses, and all those damn little clerks that used to live down _that_ way-they'd be no good.
They haven't any spirit in them-no proud dreams and no proud lusts; and a man who hasn't one or the other-Lord! What is he but funk and precautions?
And on Sundays-fear of the hereafter.
As if hell was built for rabbits!
Well, the Martians will just be a godsend to these.
Nice roomy cages, fattening food, careful breeding, no worry.
After a week or so chasing about the fields and lands on empty stomachs, they'll come and be caught cheerful.
They'll be quite glad after a bit.
They'll wonder what people did before there were Martians to take care of them.
And the bar loafers, and mashers, and singers-I can imagine them.
I can imagine them," he said, with a sort of sombre gratification.
There'll be any amount of sentiment and religion loose among them.
There's hundreds of things I saw with my eyes that I've only begun to see clearly these last few days.
There's lots will take things as they are-fat and stupid; and lots will be worried by a sort of feeling that it's all wrong, and that they ought to be doing something.
Very likely you've seen the same thing.
It's energy in a gale of funk, and turned clean inside out.
These cages will be full of psalms and hymns and piety.
And some, maybe, they will train to hunt us." "No," I cried, "that's impossible!
No human being--" "What's the good of going on with such lies?" said the artilleryman. "There's men who'd do it cheerful.
What nonsense to pretend there isn't!" And I succumbed to his conviction. "If they come after me," he said; "Lord, if they come after me!" and subsided into a grim meditation. I sat contemplating these things.
I could find nothing to bring against this man's reasoning.
What plans have you made?" He hesitated. "Well, it's like this," he said.
What have we to do?
We have to invent a sort of life where men can live and breed, and be sufficiently secure to bring the children up.
Yes-wait a bit, and I'll make it clearer what I think ought to be done.
The tame ones will go like all tame beasts; in a few generations they'll be big, beautiful, rich-blooded, stupid-rubbish!
The risk is that we who keep wild will go savage-degenerate into a sort of big, savage rat. . . .
You see, how I mean to live is underground.
I've been thinking about the drains.
Of course those who don't know drains think horrible things; but under this London are miles and miles-hundreds of miles-and a few days rain and London empty will leave them sweet and clean.
The main drains are big enough and airy enough for anyone.
Then there's cellars, vaults, stores, from which bolting passages may be made to the drains.
And the railway tunnels and subways.
And we form a band-able-bodied, clean-minded men.
We're not going to pick up any rubbish that drifts in. Weaklings go out again." "As you meant me to go?" "Well-I parleyed, didn't I?" "We won't quarrel about that.
Go on." "Those who stop obey orders.
Able-bodied, clean-minded women we want also-mothers and teachers.
No lackadaisical ladies-no blasted rolling eyes.
We can't have any weak or silly.
Life is real again, and the useless and cumbersome and mischievous have to die.
They ought to die. They ought to be willing to die.
It's a sort of disloyalty, after all, to live and taint the race.
And they can't be happy.
Moreover, dying's none so dreadful; it's the funking makes it bad.
And in all those places we shall gather.
Our district will be London.
And we may even be able to keep a watch, and run about in the open when the Martians keep away.
That's how we shall save the race.
Eh? It's a possible thing?
But saving the race is nothing in itself.
As I say, that's only being rats.
It's saving our knowledge and adding to it is the thing.
There men like you come in. There's books, there's models.
We must make great safe places down deep, and get all the books we can; not novels and poetry swipes, but ideas, science books.
That's where men like you come in. We must go to the British Museum and pick all those books through.
Especially we must keep up our science-learn more.
We must watch these Martians.
Some of us must go as spies.
When it's all working, perhaps I will.
And the great thing is, we must leave the Martians alone.
If we get in their way, we clear out.
We must show them we mean no harm. Yes, I know.
Not a Martian in 'em, but men-men who have learned the way how.
It may be in my time, even-those men.
Fancy having one of them lovely things, with its Heat-Ray wide and free!
Fancy having it in control!
What would it matter if you smashed to smithereens at the end of the run, after a bust like that?
I reckon the Martians'll open their beautiful eyes! Can't you see them, man?
Can't you see them hurrying, hurrying-puffing and blowing and hooting to their other mechanical affairs?
Something out of gear in every case.
And swish, bang, rattle, swish!
We talked in this manner through the early morning time, and later crept out of the bushes, and, after scanning the sky for Martians, hurried precipitately to the house on Putney Hill where he had made his lair.
Such a hole I could have dug in a day.
But I believed in him sufficiently to work with him all that morning until past midday at his digging.
We had a garden barrow and shot the earth we removed against the kitchen range.
We refreshed ourselves with a tin of mock-turtle soup and wine from the neighbouring pantry.
I found a curious relief from the aching strangeness of the world in this steady labour.
As we worked, I turned his project over in my mind, and presently objections and doubts began to arise; but I worked there all the morning, so glad was I to find myself with a purpose again.
After working an hour I began to speculate on the distance one had to go before the cloaca was reached, the chances we had of missing it altogether.
My immediate trouble was why we should dig this long tunnel, when it was possible to get into the drain at once down one of the manholes, and work back to the house.
It seemed to me, too, that the house was inconveniently chosen, and required a needless length of tunnel.
And just as I was beginning to face these things, the artilleryman stopped digging, and looked at me. "We're working well," he said.
He put down his spade.
Let us knock off a bit," he said.
I think it's time we reconnoitred from the roof of the house." I was for going on, and after a little hesitation he resumed his spade; and then suddenly I was struck by a thought.
I stopped, and so did he at once. "Why were you walking about the common," I said, "instead of being here?" "Taking the air," he said.
It's safer by night." "But the work?" "Oh, one can't always work," he said, and in a flash I saw the man plain.
He hesitated, holding his spade.
We ought to reconnoitre now," he said, "because if any come near they may hear the spades and drop upon us unawares." I was no longer disposed to object.
We went together to the roof and stood on a ladder peeping out of the roof door.
The red creeper swarmed up the trees about the old palace, and their branches stretched gaunt and dead, and set with shrivelled leaves, from amid its clusters.
It was strange how entirely dependent both these things were upon flowing water for their propagation.
About us neither had gained a footing; laburnums, pink mays, snowballs, and trees of arbor-vitae, rose out of laurels and hydrangeas, green and brilliant into the sunlight.
A man who was there told me.
And as the day came they became aware of a fighting-machine standing near by the Langham and looking down at them.
Heaven knows how long he had been there.
It must have given some of them a nasty turn.
He talked so eloquently of the possibility of capturing a fighting-machine that I more than half believed in him again.
But now that I was beginning to understand something of his quality, I could divine the stress he laid on doing nothing precipitately.
And I noted that now there was no question that he personally was to capture and fight the great machine. After a time we went down to the cellar.
Neither of us seemed disposed to resume digging, and when he suggested a meal, I was nothing loath. He became suddenly very generous, and when we had eaten he went away and returned with some excellent cigars.
We lit these, and his optimism glowed.
He was inclined to regard my coming as a great occasion. "There's some champagne in the cellar," he said. "We can dig better on this Thames-side burgundy," said I. "No," said he; "I am host today.
We've a heavy enough task before us!
Let us take a rest and gather strength while we may.
Look at these blistered hands!" And pursuant to this idea of a holiday, he insisted upon playing cards after we had eaten.
He taught me euchre, and after dividing London between us, I taking the northern side and he the southern, we played for parish points.
Afterwards he taught me poker, and I beat him at three tough chess games.
When dark came we decided to take the risk, and lit a lamp. After an interminable string of games, we supped, and the artilleryman finished the champagne.
We went on smoking the cigars.
He was no longer the energetic regenerator of his species I had encountered in the morning.
He was still optimistic, but it was a less kinetic, a more thoughtful optimism.
I remember he wound up with my health, proposed in a speech of small variety and considerable intermittence.
I took a cigar, and went upstairs to look at the lights of which he had spoken that blazed so greenly along the Highgate hills. At first I stared unintelligently across the London valley.
The northern hills were shrouded in darkness; the fires near Kensington glowed redly, and now and then an orange-red tongue of flame flashed up and vanished in the deep blue night.
All the rest of London was black. Then, nearer, I perceived a strange light, a pale, violet-purple fluorescent glow, quivering under the night breeze.
For a space I could not understand it, and then I knew that it must be the red weed from which this faint irradiation proceeded.
With that realisation my dormant sense of wonder, my sense of the proportion of things, awoke again.
I recalled my mental states from the midnight prayer to the foolish card-playing.
I had a violent revulsion of feeling.
I remember I flung away the cigar with a certain wasteful symbolism.
My folly came to me with glaring exaggeration.
I seemed a traitor to my wife and to my kind; I was filled with remorse.
I resolved to leave this strange undisciplined dreamer of great things to his drink and gluttony, and to go on into London.
There, it seemed to me, I had the best chance of learning what the Martians and my fellowmen were doing.
I was still upon the roof when the late moon rose. VIII. DEAD LONDON. After I had parted from the artilleryman, I went down the hill, and by the High Street across the bridge to Fulham.
He was as black as a sweep with the black dust, alive, but helplessly and speechlessly drunk.
I could get nothing from him but curses and furious lunges at my head.
I think I should have stayed by him but for the brutal expression of his face. There was black dust along the roadway from the bridge onwards, and it grew thicker in Fulham.
The streets were horribly quiet.
Going on towards Brompton, the streets were quiet again. Here I came once more upon the black powder in the streets and upon dead bodies.
I saw altogether about a dozen in the length of the Fulham Road.
They had been dead many days, so that I hurried quickly past them.
In some places plunderers had been at work, but rarely at other than the provision and wine shops.
A jeweller's window had been broken open in one place, but apparently the thief had been disturbed, and a number of gold chains and a watch lay scattered on the pavement.
I did not trouble to touch them.
Farther on was a tattered woman in a heap on a doorstep; the hand that hung over her knee was gashed and bled down her rusty brown dress, and a smashed magnum of champagne formed a pool across the pavement.
She seemed asleep, but she was dead. The farther I penetrated into London, the profounder grew the stillness.
But it was not so much the stillness of death-it was the stillness of suspense, of expectation.
At any time the destruction that had already singed the northwestern borders of the metropolis, and had annihilated Ealing and Kilburn, might strike among these houses and leave them smoking ruins.
It was a city condemned and derelict. . . . In South Kensington the streets were clear of dead and of black powder. It was near South Kensington that I first heard the howling.
It crept almost imperceptibly upon my senses.
It was a sobbing alternation of two notes, "Ulla, ulla, ulla, ulla," keeping on perpetually.
When I passed streets that ran northward it grew in volume, and houses and buildings seemed to deaden and cut it off again.
It came in a full tide down Exhibition Road.
I stopped, staring towards Kensington Gardens, wondering at this strange, remote wailing.
I turned northwards, marvelling, towards the iron gates of Hyde Park.
I had half a mind to break into the Natural History Museum and find my way up to the summits of the towers, in order to see across the park.
At the top, near the park gate, I came upon a strange sight-a bus overturned, and the skeleton of a horse picked clean.
I puzzled over this for a time, and then went on to the bridge over the Serpentine.
The desolating cry worked upon my mind.
The mood that had sustained me passed.
The wailing took possession of me.
I found I was intensely weary, footsore, and now again hungry and thirsty. It was already past noon.
Why was I wandering alone in this city of the dead?
Why was I alone when all London was lying in state, and in its black shroud?
My mind ran on old friends that I had forgotten for years.
I grew very thirsty after the heat of my long walk.
With infinite trouble I managed to break into a public-house and get food and drink.
I was weary after eating, and went into the parlour behind the bar, and slept on a black horsehair sofa I found there. I awoke to find that dismal howling still in my ears, "Ulla, ulla, ulla, ulla.
And as I emerged from the top of Baker Street, I saw far away over the trees in the clearness of the sunset the hood of the Martian giant from which this howling proceeded.
I came upon him as if it were a matter of course.
I watched him for some time, but he did not move.
He appeared to be standing and yelling, for no reason that I could discover. I tried to formulate a plan of action.
That perpetual sound of "Ulla, ulla, ulla, ulla," confused my mind.
Perhaps I was too tired to be very fearful.
Certainly I was more curious to know the reason of this monotonous crying than afraid.
He made a wide curve to avoid me, as though he feared I might prove a fresh competitor.
As the yelping died away down the silent road, the wailing sound of "Ulla, ulla, ulla, ulla," reasserted itself. I came upon the wrecked handling-machine halfway to St. John's Wood station.
At first I thought a house had fallen across the road.
It was only as I clambered among the ruins that I saw, with a start, this mechanical Samson lying, with its tentacles bent and smashed and twisted, among the ruins it had made.
It seemed as if it had driven blindly straight at the house, and had been overwhelmed in its overthrow.
It seemed to me then that this might have happened by a handling-machine escaping from the guidance of its Martian.
Far away, through a gap in the trees, I saw a second Martian, as motionless as the first, standing in the park towards the Zoological Gardens, and silent.
The silence came like a thunderclap. The dusky houses about me stood faint and tall and dim; the trees towards the park were growing black.
All about me the red weed clambered among the ruins, writhing to get above me in the dimness. Night, the mother of fear and mystery, was coming upon me.
But while that voice sounded the solitude, the desolation, had been endurable; by virtue of it London had still seemed alive, and the sense of life about me had upheld me.
Then suddenly a change, the passing of something-I knew not what-and then a stillness that could be felt.
Nothing but this gaunt quiet. London about me gazed at me spectrally.
The windows in the white houses were like the eye sockets of skulls.
About me my imagination found a thousand noiseless enemies moving.
Terror seized me, a horror of my temerity.
In front of me the road became pitchy black as though it was tarred, and I saw a contorted shape lying across the pathway.
I could not bring myself to go on.
I turned down St. John's Wood Road, and ran headlong from this unendurable stillness towards Kilburn.
I hid from the night and the silence, until long after midnight, in a cabmen's shelter in Harrow Road.
But before the dawn my courage returned, and while the stars were still in the sky I turned once more towards Regent's Park.
I missed my way among the streets, and presently saw down a long avenue, in the half-light of the early dawn, the curve of Primrose Hill.
On the summit, towering up to the fading stars, was a third Martian, erect and motionless like the others. An insane resolve possessed me.
I would die and end it.
And I would save myself even the trouble of killing myself.
I marched on recklessly towards this Titan, and then, as I drew nearer and the light grew, I saw that a multitude of black birds was circling and clustering about the hood.
Against the sky line an eager dog ran and disappeared.
The thought that had flashed into my mind grew real, grew credible.
I felt no fear, only a wild, trembling exultation, as I ran up the hill towards the motionless monster.
A mighty space it was, with gigantic machines here and there within it, huge mounds of material and strange shelter places.
These germs of disease have taken toll of humanity since the beginning of things-taken toll of our prehuman ancestors since life began here.
But by virtue of this natural selection of our kind we have developed resisting power; to no germs do we succumb without a struggle, and to many-those that cause putrefaction in dead matter, for instance-our living frames are altogether immune.
But there are no bacteria in Mars, and directly these invaders arrived, directly they drank and fed, our microscopic allies began to work their overthrow.
Already when I watched them they were irrevocably doomed, dying and rotting even as they went to and fro.
By the toll of a billion deaths man has bought his birthright of the earth, and it is his against all comers; it would still be his were the Martians ten times as mighty as they are.
To me also at that time this death was incomprehensible.
All I knew was that these things that had been alive and so terrible to men were dead.
Across the pit on its farther lip, flat and vast and strange, lay the great flying-machine with which they had been experimenting upon our denser atmosphere when decay and death arrested them.
Death had come not a day too soon.
Far away and blue were the Surrey hills, and the towers of the Crystal Palace glittered like two silver rods.
Even that day the healing would begin.
Whatever destruction was done, the hand of the destroyer was stayed.
All the gaunt wrecks, the blackened skeletons of houses that stared so dismally at the sunlit grass of the hill, would presently be echoing with the hammers of the restorers and ringing with the tapping of their trowels.
At the thought I extended my hands towards the sky and began thanking God.
Yet, perhaps, it is not altogether strange.
I remember, clearly and coldly and vividly, all that I did that day until the time that I stood weeping and praising God upon the summit of Primrose Hill.
And then I forget. Of the next three days I know nothing.
I have learned since that, so far from my being the first discoverer of the Martian overthrow, several such wanderers as myself had already discovered this on the previous night.
One man-the first-had gone to St. Martin's-le-Grand, and, while I sheltered in the cabmen's hut, had contrived to telegraph to Paris.
Already men, weeping with joy, as I have heard, shouting and staying their work to shake hands and shout, were making up trains, even as near as Crewe, to descend upon London.
The church bells that had ceased a fortnight since suddenly caught the news, until all England was bell-ringing.
Men on cycles, lean-faced, unkempt, scorched along every country lane shouting of unhoped deliverance, shouting to gaunt, staring figures of despair.
Across the Channel, across the Irish Sea, across the Atlantic, corn, bread, and meat were tearing to our relief.
All the shipping in the world seemed going Londonward in those days.
But of all this I have no memory.
I found myself in a house of kindly people, who had found me on the third day wandering, weeping, and raving through the streets of St. John's Wood.
They have told me since that I was singing some insane doggerel about "The Last Man Left Alive!
Hurrah! The Last Man Left Alive!
Apparently they had learned something of my story from me during the days of my lapse. Very gently, when my mind was assured again, did they break to me what they had learned of the fate of Leatherhead.
I was a lonely man and a sad one, and they bore with me.
I remained with them four days after my recovery.
All that time I felt a vague, a growing craving to look once more on whatever remained of the little life that seemed so happy and bright in my past.
It was a mere hopeless desire to feast upon my misery.
They did all they could to divert me from this morbidity.
So many people were abroad everywhere, busied in a thousand activities, that it seemed incredible that any great proportion of the population could have been slain.
But then I noticed how yellow were the skins of the people I met, how shaggy the hair of the men, how large and bright their eyes, and that every other man still wore his dirty rags.
Their faces seemed all with one of two expressions-a leaping exultation and energy or a grim resolution.
Save for the expression of the faces, London seemed a city of tramps.
The vestries were indiscriminately distributing bread sent us by the French government.
The ribs of the few horses showed dismally.
Haggard special constables with white badges stood at the corners of every street.
It was the placard of the first newspaper to resume publication-the _Daily Mail_. I bought a copy for a blackened shilling I found in my pocket.
Most of it was in blank, but the solitary compositor who did the thing had amused himself by making a grotesque scheme of advertisement stereo on the back page.
The matter he printed was emotional; the news organisation had not as yet found its way back.
I learned nothing fresh except that already in one week the examination of the Martian mechanisms had yielded astonishing results.
Among other things, the article assured me what I did not believe at the time, that the "Secret of Flying," was discovered.
At Waterloo I found the free trains that were taking people to their homes.
The first rush was already over. There were few people in the train, and I was in no mood for casual conversation.
Walton, by virtue of its unburned pine woods, seemed the least hurt of any place along the line.
The Wandle, the Mole, every little stream, was a heaped mass of red weed, in appearance between butcher's meat and pickled cabbage.
The Surrey pine woods were too dry, however, for the festoons of the red climber.
Beyond Wimbledon, within sight of the line, in certain nursery grounds, were the heaped masses of earth about the sixth cylinder.
A number of people were standing about it, and some sappers were busy in the midst of it.
Over it flaunted a Union Jack, flapping cheerfully in the morning breeze.
The nursery grounds were everywhere crimson with the weed, a wide expanse of livid colour cut with purple shadows, and very painful to the eye.
Here, moved by curiosity, I turned aside to find, among a tangle of red fronds, the warped and broken dog cart with the whitened bones of the horse scattered and gnawed.
The curtains of my study fluttered out of the open window from which I and the artilleryman had watched the dawn.
No one had closed it since.
The smashed bushes were just as I had left them nearly four weeks ago.
I stumbled into the hall, and the house felt empty.
The stair carpet was ruffled and discoloured where I had crouched, soaked to the skin from the thunderstorm the night of the catastrophe.
For a space I stood reading over my abandoned arguments.
I remembered my inability to fix my mind that morning, scarcely a month gone by, and how I had broken off to get my _Daily Chronicle_ from the newsboy.
I remembered how I went down to the garden gate as he came along, and how I had listened to his odd story of "Men from Mars." I came down and went into the dining room.
There were the mutton and the bread, both far gone now in decay, and a beer bottle overturned, just as I and the artilleryman had left them.
I perceived the folly of the faint hope I had cherished so long.
And then a strange thing occurred.
It is no use," said a voice.
No one has been here these ten days.
Do not stay here to torment yourself.
No one escaped but you." I was startled.
Had I spoken my thought aloud?
I turned, and the French window was open behind me.
I made a step to it, and stood looking out. And there, amazed and afraid, even as I stood amazed and afraid, were my cousin and my wife-my wife white and tearless.
She gave a faint cry. "I came," she said.
I knew-knew--" She put her hand to her throat-swayed.
In one respect I shall certainly provoke criticism.
My particular province is speculative philosophy.
I have assumed that in the body of my narrative. At any rate, in all the bodies of the Martians that were examined after the war, no bacteria except those already known as terrestrial species were found.
That they did not bury any of their dead, and the reckless slaughter they perpetrated, point also to an entire ignorance of the putrefactive process.
But probable as this seems, it is by no means a proven conclusion. Neither is the composition of the Black Smoke known, which the Martians used with such deadly effect, and the generator of the Heat-Rays remains a puzzle.
The terrible disasters at the Ealing and South Kensington laboratories have disinclined analysts for further investigations upon the latter.
But such unproven speculations will scarcely be of interest to the general reader, to whom this story is addressed.
I do not think that nearly enough attention is being given to this aspect of the matter.
At present the planet Mars is in conjunction, but with every return to opposition I, for one, anticipate a renewal of their adventure.
In any case, we should be prepared.
It seems to me that they have lost a vast advantage in the failure of their first surprise.
Subsequently a peculiar luminous and sinuous marking appeared on the unillumined half of the inner planet, and almost simultaneously a faint dark mark of a similar sinuous character was detected upon a photograph of the Martian disk.
We have learned now that we cannot regard this planet as being fenced in and a secure abiding place for Man; we can never anticipate the unseen good or evil that may come upon us suddenly out of space.
It may be that across the immensity of space the Martians have watched the fate of these pioneers of theirs and learned their lesson, and that on the planet Venus they have found a securer settlement.
Before the cylinder fell there was a general persuasion that through all the deep of space no life existed beyond the petty surface of our minute sphere.
But that is a remote dream.
It may be, on the other hand, that the destruction of the Martians is only a reprieve.
To them, and not to us, perhaps, is the future ordained. I must confess the stress and danger of the time have left an abiding sense of doubt and insecurity in my mind.
I sit in my study writing by lamplight, and suddenly I see again the healing valley below set with writhing flames, and feel the house behind and about me empty and desolate.
Of a night I see the black powder darkening the silent streets, and the contorted bodies shrouded in that layer; they rise upon me tattered and dog-bitten.
37,602,286 Midwest Region 59,668,632 East North Central 42,008,942 West North Central 17,659,690 South Region 85,445,930 South Atlantic Div.
0.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Alabama Total housing units.........................................
0.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Alaska Total population..............................................
3.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Alaska Total housing units.........................................
2.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Arizona Total population............................................
18.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Arizona Total housing units.........................................
13.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Arkansas Total population............................................
0.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Arkansas Total housing units.........................................
0.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** California Total population............................................
25.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** California Total housing units.........................................
17.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Colorado Total population............................................
12.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Colorado Total housing units.........................................
10.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Connecticut Total population............................................
6.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Connecticut Total housing units.........................................
5.0 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Delaware Total population............................................
2.4 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Delaware Total housing units.........................................
1.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** District of Columbia Total population............................................
5.4 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** District of Columbia Total housing units.........................................
4.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Florida Total population............................................
12.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Florida Total housing units.........................................
9.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Georgia Total population............................................
1.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Georgia Total housing units.........................................
1.3 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Hawaii Total population............................................
7.3 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Hawaii Total housing units.........................................
5.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Idaho Total population............................................
5.3 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Idaho Total housing units.........................................
3.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Illinois Total population............................................
7.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Illinois Total housing units.........................................
5.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Indiana Total population............................................
1.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Indiana Total housing units.........................................
1.3 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Iowa Total population............................................
1.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Iowa Total housing units.........................................
0.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Kansas Total population............................................
3.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Kansas Total housing units.........................................
2.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Kentucky Total population............................................
0.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Kentucky Total housing units.........................................
0.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Louisiana Total population............................................
2.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Louisiana Total housing units.........................................
2.0 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Maine Total population............................................
0.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Maine Total housing units.........................................
0.4 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Maryland Total population............................................
2.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Maryland Total housing units.........................................
2.0 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Massachusetts Total population............................................
4.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Massachusetts Total housing units.........................................
3.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Michigan Total population............................................
2.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Michigan Total housing units.........................................
1.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Minnesota Total population............................................
1.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Minnesota Total housing units.........................................
0.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Mississippi Total population............................................
0.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Mississippi Total housing units.........................................
0.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Missouri Total population............................................
1.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Missouri Total housing units.........................................
0.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Montana Total population............................................
1.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Montana Total housing units.........................................
1.1 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Nebraska Total population............................................
808,946 AGE Under 5 years............................................
119,606 5 to 17 years............................................
309,406 18 to 20 years...........................................
70,495 21 to 24 years...........................................
85,392 25 to 44 years...........................................
486,020 45 to 54 years...........................................
149,389 55 to 59 years...........................................
67,281 60 to 64 years...........................................
67,728 65 to 74 years...........................................
117,643 75 to 84 years...........................................
76,223 85 years and over........................................
429,012 Percent of total population..............................
27.2 65 years and over...........................................
223,068 Percent of total population..............................
14.1 HOUSEHOLDS BY TYPE Total households............................................
350,514 Percent of total households........................
14,738 Other family, female householder......................
186,936 Percent of total households........................
159,671 Householder 65 years and over......................
69,640 Persons living in households.............................
25,620 Other persons in group quarters.......................
21,933 RACE AND HISPANIC ORIGIN White....................................................
57,404 Percent of total population...........................
3.6 American Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut........................
12,410 Percent of total population...........................
12,422 Percent of total population...........................
15,591 Hispanic origin (of any race)............................
36,969 Percent of total population...................................2.3 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Nebraska Total housing units.........................................
660,621 OCCUPANCY AND TENURE Occupied housing units...................................
58,258 For seasonal, recreational, or occasional use.........
10,978 Homeowner vacancy rate (percent)..........................
7.7 Persons per owner-occupied unit..........................
10,512 UNITS IN STRUCTURE 1-unit, detached.........................................
15,767 2 to 4 units.............................................
39,656 5 to 9 units.............................................
24,959 10 or more units.........................................
59,058 Mobile home, trailer, other..............................
42,057 VALUE Specified owner-occupied units...........................
50,400 CONTRACT RENT Specified renter-occupied units paying cash rent.........
19,720 Percent of occupied units..........................
3,342 Percent of occupied units..........................
3,264 Percent of occupied units..........................
4,434 Hispanic origin (of any race).........................
10,517 Percent of occupied units..........................
1.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Nevada Total population............................................
10.4 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Nevada Total housing units.........................................
7.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** New Hampshire Total population............................................
1.0 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** New Hampshire Total housing units.........................................
0.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** New Jersey Total population............................................
9.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** New Jersey Total housing units.........................................
7.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** New Mexico Total population............................................
38.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** New Mexico Total housing units.........................................
32.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** New York Total population............................................
12.3 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** New York Total housing units.........................................
10.0 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** North Carolina Total population............................................
1.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** North Carolina Total housing units.........................................
0.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** North Dakota Total population............................................
0.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** North Dakota Total housing units.........................................
0.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Ohio Total population............................................
1.3 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Ohio Total housing units.........................................
1.0 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Oklahoma Total population............................................
2.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Oklahoma Total housing units.........................................
1.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Oregon Total population............................................
4.0 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Oregon Total housing units.........................................
2.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Pennsylvania Total population............................................
2.0 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Pennsylvania Total housing units.........................................
1.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Rhode Island Total population............................................
4.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Rhode Island Total housing units.........................................
3.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** South Carolina Total population............................................
0.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** South Carolina Total housing units.........................................
0.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** South Dakota Total population............................................
0.8 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** South Dakota Total housing units.........................................
0.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Tennessee Total population............................................
0.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Tennessee Total housing units.........................................
0.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Texas Total population............................................
25.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Texas Total housing units.........................................
19.1 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Utah Total population............................................
4.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Utah Total housing units.........................................
4.2 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Vermont Total population............................................
0.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Vermont Total housing units.........................................
210,650 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Virginia Total population............................................
2.6 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Virginia Total housing units.........................................
1.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Washington Total population............................................
4.4 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Washington Total housing units.........................................
3.0 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** West Virginia Total population............................................
0.5 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** West Virginia Total housing units.........................................
0.4 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Wisconsin Total population............................................
1.9 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Wisconsin Total housing units.........................................
1.3 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 1 *** Wyoming Total population............................................
5.7 1990 Census of Population and Housing Page 2 *** Wyoming Total housing units.........................................
This is the Jargon File, a comprehensive compendium of hacker slang illuminating many aspects of hackish tradition, folklore, and humor. This document (the Jargon File) is in the public domain, to be freely used, shared, and modified.
Editorial responsibilities include: to collate contributions and suggestions from others; to seek out corroborating information; to cross-reference related entries; to keep the file in a consistent format; and to announce and distribute updated versions periodically.
Current volunteer editors include: Eric Raymond eric@snark.thyrsus.com (215)-296-5718 Although there is no requirement that you do so, it is considered good form to check with an editor before quoting the File in a published work or commercial product.
If you wish to have a bound paper copy of this file, you may find it convenient to purchase one of these.
They often contain additional material not found in on-line versions.
It has its own myths, heroes, villains, folk epics, in-jokes, taboos, and dreams.
Also as usual, *not* knowing the slang (or using it inappropriately) defines one as an outsider, a mundane, or (worst of all in hackish vocabulary) possibly even a {suit}.
As a simple example, take the distinction between a {kluge} and an {elegant} solution, and the differing connotations attached to each.
The distinction is not only of engineering significance; it reaches right back into the nature of the generative processes in program design and asserts something important about two different kinds of relationship between the hacker and the hack.
Hacker slang is unusually rich in implications of this kind, of overtones and undertones that illuminate the hackish psyche. But there is more.
Hackers, as a rule, love wordplay and are very conscious and inventive in their use of language.
These traits seem to be common in young children, but the conformity-enforcing machine we are pleased to call an educational system bludgeons them out of most of us before adolescence.
Thus, linguistic invention in most subcultures of the modern West is a halting and largely unconscious process.
Hackers, by contrast, regard slang formation and use as a game to be played for conscious pleasure.
Their inventions thus display an almost unique combination of the neotenous enjoyment of language-play with the discrimination of educated and powerful intelligence.
Further, the electronic media which knit them together are fluid, `hot' connections, well adapted to both the dissemination of new slang and the ruthless culling of weak and superannuated specimens.
The results of this process give us perhaps a uniquely intense and accelerated view of linguistic evolution in action. Hackish slang also challenges some common linguistic and anthropological assumptions.
For example, it has recently become fashionable to speak of `low-context' versus `high-context' communication, and to classify cultures by the preferred context level of their languages and art forms.
Even a complete outsider should find at least a chuckle on nearly every page, and much that is amusingly thought-provoking.
But it is also true that hackers use humorous wordplay to make strong, sometimes combative statements about what they feel.
Some of these entries reflect the views of opposing sides in disputes that have been genuinely passionate; this is deliberate.
We have not tried to moderate or pretty up these disputes; rather we have attempted to ensure that *everyone's* sacred cows get gored, impartially.
Compromise is not particularly a hackish virtue, but the honest presentation of divergent viewpoints is. The reader with minimal computer background who finds some references incomprehensibly technical can safely ignore them.
The `outside' reader's attention is particularly directed to {appendix B}, "A Portrait of J.
A lot of techspeak originated as jargon, and there is a steady continuing uptake of jargon into techspeak.
Some other techspeak senses of jargon words are listed in order to make the jargon senses clear; where the text does not specify that a straight technical sense is under discussion, these are marked with `[techspeak]' as an etymology.
Some entries have a primary sense marked this way, with subsequent jargon meanings explained in terms of it. We have also tried to indicate (where known) the apparent origins of terms.
The results are probably the least reliable information in the lexicon, for several reasons.
For one thing, it is well known that many hackish usages have been independently reinvented multiple times, even among the more obscure and intricate neologisms.
It often seems that the generative processes underlying hackish jargon formation have an internal logic so powerful as to create substantial parallelism across separate cultures and even in different languages!
For another, the networks tend to propagate innovations so quickly that `first use' is often impossible to pin down.
From this time until the plug was finally pulled on the SAIL computer in 1991, the File was named AIWORD.RF[UP,DOC] there.
Some terms in it date back considerably earlier ({frob} and some senses of {moby}, for instance, go back to the Tech Model Railroad Club at MIT and are believed to date at least back to the early 1960s).
The revisions of jargon-1 were all unnumbered and may be collectively considered `Version 1'. In 1976, Mark Crispin, having seen an announcement about the File on the SAIL computer, {FTP}ed a copy of the File to MIT.
The other jargon-1 editors (Raphael Finkel, Don Woods, and Mark Crispin) contributed to this revision, as did Richard M.
This book (now out of print) is hereafter referred to as `Steele-1983' and those six as the Steele-1983 coauthors. Shortly after the publication of Steele-1983, the File effectively stopped growing and changing.
At MIT, most AI work had turned to dedicated LISP Machines.
At the same time, the commercialization of AI technology lured some of the AI Lab's best and brightest away to startups along the Route 128 strip in Massachusetts and out West in Silicon Valley.
The File's compilers, already dispersed, moved on to other things.
The book, and softcopies obtained off the ARPANET, circulated even in cultures far removed from MIT and Stanford; the content exerted a strong and continuing influence on hackish language and humor.
Raymond <eric@snark.thyrsus.com> maintains the new File with assistance from Guy L.
Steele Jr. <gls@think.com>; these are the persons primarily reflected in the File's editorial `we', though we take pleasure in acknowledging the special contribution of the other coauthors of Steele-1983.
Reorganization and massive additions were by Eric S. Raymond, approved by Guy Steele.
Packaged with version 1.1 of vh(1) hypertext reader.
This version had 19509 lines, 153108 words, 1006023 characters, and 1760 entries. Version 2.9.9, Apr 01 1992: folded in XEROX PARC lexicon.
This version had 20298 lines, 159651 words, 1048909 characters, and 1821 entries. Version 2.9.10, Jul 01 1992: lots of new historical material.
This version had 21349 lines, 168330 words, 1106991 characters, and 1891 entries. Version numbering: Version numbers should be read as major.minor.revision.
Major version 1 is reserved for the `old' (ITS) Jargon File, jargon-1.
Major version 2 encompasses revisions by ESR (Eric S.
Raymond) with assistance from GLS (Guy L.
More thanks go to several of the old-timers on the USENET group alt.folklore.computers, who contributed much useful commentary and many corrections and valuable historical perspective: Joseph M.
We are indebted to Brian A.
LaMacchia <bal@zurich.ai.mit.edu> for obtaining permission for us to use material from the `TMRC Dictionary'; also, Don Libes <libes@cme.nist.gov> contributed some appropriate material from his excellent book `Life With UNIX'.
We thank Per Lindberg <per@front.se>, author of the remarkable Swedish-language 'zine `Hackerbladet', for bringing `FOO!' comics to our attention and smuggling one of the IBM hacker underground's own baby jargon files out to us.
Thanks also to Maarten Litmaath for generously allowing the inclusion of the ASCII pronunciation guide he formerly maintained.
These include the following: :Verb Doubling: --------------- A standard construction in English is to double a verb and use it as an exclamation, such as "Bang, bang!" or "Quack, quack!".
Most of these are names for noises.
Hackers also double verbs as a concise, sometimes sarcastic comment on what the implied subject does.
Also, a doubled verb is often used to terminate a conversation, in the process remarking on the current state of affairs or what the speaker intends to do next.
Typical examples involve {win}, {lose}, {hack}, {flame}, {barf}, {chomp}: "The disk heads just crashed.
Lose, lose." "Mostly he talked about his latest crock.
Flame, flame." "Boy, what a bagbiter!
Chomp, chomp!" Some verb-doubled constructions have special meanings not immediately obvious from the verb.
These have their own listings in the lexicon. The USENET culture has one *tripling* convention unrelated to this; the names of `joke' topic groups often have a tripled last element.
Once, when we were at a Chinese restaurant, Bill Gosper wanted to know whether someone would like to share with him a two-person-sized bowl of soup.
Thus (to cite one of the best-known examples) UNIX hackers often {grep} for things rather than searching for them.
Many of the lexicon entries are generalizations of exactly this kind. Hackers enjoy overgeneralization on the grammatical level as well.
Many hackers love to take various words and add the wrong endings to them to make nouns and verbs, often by extending a standard rule to nonuniform cases (or vice versa).
For example, because porous => porosity generous => generosity hackers happily generalize: mysterious => mysteriosity ferrous => ferrosity obvious => obviosity dubious => dubiosity Also, note that all nouns can be verbed.
E.g.: "All nouns can be verbed", "I'll mouse it up", "Hang on while I clipboard it over", "I'm grepping the files".
Hackers have a strong aversion to bureaucratic bafflegab and regard those who use it with contempt. Similarly, all verbs can be nouned.
This is only a slight overgeneralization in modern English; in hackish, however, it is good form to mark them in some standard nonstandard way.
Thus: win => winnitude, winnage disgust => disgustitude hack => hackification Further, note the prevalence of certain kinds of nonstandard plural forms.
Some of these go back quite a ways; the TMRC Dictionary noted that the defined plural of `caboose' is `cabeese', and includes an entry which implies that the plural of `mouse' is {meeces}.
On a similarly Anglo-Saxon note, almost anything ending in `x' may form plurals in `-xen' (see {VAXen} and {boxen} in the main text).
Even words ending in phonetic /k/ alone are sometimes treated this way; e.g., `soxen' for a bunch of socks.
Other funny plurals are `frobbotzim' for the plural of `frobbozz' (see {frobnitz}) and `Unices' and `Twenices' (rather than `Unixes' and `Twenexes'; see {UNIX}, {TWENEX} in main text).
But note that `Unixen' and `Twenexen' are never used; it has been suggested that this is because `-ix' and `-ex' are Latin singular endings that attract a Latinate plural.
It is grammatical creativity, a form of playfulness.
It is done not to impress but to amuse, and never at the expense of clarity. :Spoken inarticulations: ------------------------ Words such as `mumble', `sigh', and `groan' are spoken in places where their referent might more naturally be used.
It has been suggested that this usage derives from the impossibility of representing such noises on a comm link or in electronic mail (interestingly, the same sorts of constructions have been showing up with increasing frequency in comic strips).
Another expression sometimes heard is "Complain!", meaning "I have a complaint!" :Anthromorphization: -------------------- Semantically, one rich source of jargon constructions is the hackish tendency to anthropomorphize hardware and software.
This isn't done in a na"ive way; hackers don't personalize their stuff in the sense of feeling empathy with it, nor do they mystically believe that the things they work on every day are `alive'.
What *is* common is to hear hardware or software talked about as though it has homunculi talking to each other inside it, with intentions and desires.
Thus, one hears "The protocol handler got confused", or that programs "are trying" to do things, or one may say of a routine that "its goal in life is to X".
One even hears explanations like "... and its poor little brain couldn't understand X, and it died.
This is especially true of the adjectives and nouns used to describe the beauty and functional quality of code.
Here is an approximately correct spectrum: monstrosity brain-damage screw bug lose misfeature crock kluge hack win feature elegance perfection The last is spoken of as a mythical absolute, approximated but never actually attained.
This is one aspect of a more general fondness for form-versus-content language jokes that shows up particularly in hackish writing.
One correspondent reports that he consistently misspells `wrong' as `worng'.
This sort of thing is quite common and is enjoyed by all concerned. Hackers tend to use quotes as balanced delimiters like parentheses, much to the dismay of American editors.
Thus, if "Jim is going" is a phrase, and so are "Bill runs" and "Spock groks", then hackers generally prefer to write: "Jim is going", "Bill runs", and "Spock groks".
This is incorrect according to standard American usage (which would put the continuation commas and the final period inside the string quotes); however, it is counter-intuitive to hackers to mutilate literal strings with characters that don't belong in them.
Given the sorts of examples that can come up in discussions of programming, American-style quoting can even be grossly misleading.
One further permutation that is definitely *not* standard is a hackish tendency to do marking quotes by using apostrophes (single quotes) in pairs; that is, 'like this'.
It is notable in this respect that other hackish inventions (for example, in vocabulary) also tend to carry very precise shades of meaning even when constructed to appear slangy and loose.
The asterisk is most common, as in "What the *hell*?" even though this interferes with the common use of the asterisk suffix as a footnote mark.
The underscore is also common, suggesting underlining (this is particularly common with book titles; for example, "It is often alleged that Joe Haldeman wrote _The_Forever_War_ as a rebuttal to Robert Heinlein's earlier novel of the future military, _Starship_Troopers_.").
Other forms exemplified by "=hell=", "\hell/", or "/hell/" are occasionally seen (it's claimed that in the last example the first slash pushes the letters over to the right to make them italic, and the second keeps them from falling over).
This comes from the fact that the digraph ^H is often used as a print representation for a backspace.
It parallels (and may have been influenced by) the ironic use of `slashouts' in science-fiction fanzines. In a formula, `*' signifies multiplication but two asterisks in a row are a shorthand for exponentiation (this derives from FORTRAN).
Thus, one might write 2 ** 8 = 256. Another notation for exponentiation one sees more frequently uses the caret (^, ASCII 1011110); one might write instead `2^8 = 256'.
The notation is mildly confusing to C programmers, because `^' means bitwise {XOR} in C.
Despite this, it was favored 3:1 over ** in a late-1990 snapshot of USENET.
It is used consistently in this text. In on-line exchanges, hackers tend to use decimal forms or improper fractions (`3.5' or `7/2') rather than `typewriter style' mixed fractions (`3-1/2').
The major motive here is probably that the former are more readable in a monospaced font, together with a desire to avoid the risk that the latter might be read as `three minus one-half'.
The Pascal not-equals, `<>', is also recognized, and occasionally one sees `/=' for not-equals (from Ada, Common Lisp, and Fortran 90).
The use of prefix `!' as a loose synonym for `not-' or `no-' is particularly common; thus, `!clue' is read `no-clue' or `clueless'. A related practice borrows syntax from preferred programming languages to express ideas in a natural-language text.
For example, one might see the following: I resently had occasion to field-test the Snafu Systems 2300E adaptive gonkulator.
Uses like the following are common: So this <ethnic> walks into a bar one day, and... Hackers also mix letters and numbers more freely than in mainstream usage.
In particular, it is good hackish style to write a digit sequence where you intend the reader to understand the text string that names that number in English.
So, hackers prefer to write `1970s' rather than `nineteen-seventies' or `1970's' (the latter looks like a possessive). It should also be noted that hackers exhibit much less reluctance to use multiply nested parentheses than is normal in English.
BSD `Mail(1)' was the first message agent to support inclusion, and early USENETters emulated its style.
But the TAB character tended to push included text too far to the right (especially in multiply nested inclusions), leading to ugly wraparounds.
Inclusions within inclusions keep their `>' leaders, so the `nesting level' of a quotation is visually apparent. A few other idiosyncratic quoting styles survive because they are automatically generated.
It was hard to see who was responding to what.
Consequently, around 1984, new news-posting software evolved a facility to automatically include the text of a previous article, marked with "> " or whatever the poster chose.
Yet *another* style is to use each poster's initials (or login name) as a citation leader for that poster.
Deprived of the body-language cues through which emotional state is expressed, people tend to forget everything about other parties except what is presented over that ASCII link.
This has both good and bad effects.
Dry humor, irony, puns, and a mildly flippant attitude are highly valued --- but an underlying seriousness and intelligence are essential.
This confuses English-speaking non-hackers because they were taught to answer as though the negative part weren't there.
In some other languages (including Russian, Chinese, and Japanese) the hackish interpretation is standard and the problem wouldn't arise.
The thought of uttering something that logically ought to be an affirmative knowing it will be misparsed as a negative tends to disturb them. Here's a related quirk.
Occasionally they develop idioms in their English usage that are influenced by their native-language styles.
Slashes bracket phonetic pronunciations, which are to be interpreted using the following conventions: 1.
Syllables are hyphen-separated, except that an accent or back-accent follows each accented syllable (the back-accent marks a secondary accent in some words of four or more syllables). 2.
Consonants are pronounced as in American English.
The letter `g' is always hard (as in "got" rather than "giant"); `ch' is soft ("church" rather than "chemist").
The letter `j' is the sound that occurs twice in "judge".
The letter `s' is always as in "pass", never a z sound.
The digraph `kh' is the guttural of "loch" or "l'chaim". 3.
Uppercase letters are pronounced as their English letter names; thus (for example) /H-L-L/ is equivalent to /aitch el el/. /Z/ may be pronounced /zee/ or /zed/ depending on your local dialect. 4.
The case-blindness is a feature, not a bug. The beginning of each entry is marked by a colon (`:') at the left margin.
In addition, we reserve double quotes for actual excerpts of text or (sometimes invented) speech.
The UNIX manuals use `foo(n)' to refer to item foo in section (n) of the manual, where n=1 is utilities, n=2 is system calls, n=3 is C library routines, n=6 is games, and n=8 (where present) is system administration utilities.
The fact that a term is labelled with any one of these abbreviations does not necessarily mean its use is confined to that culture.
In particular, many terms labelled `MIT' and `Stanford' are in quite general use.
We prefer items to be attested by independent submission from two different sites. The Jargon File will be regularly maintained and re-posted from now on and will include a version number.
Read it, pass it around, contribute --- this is *your* monument! The Jargon Lexicon ****************** = A = ===== :abbrev: /*-breev'/, /*-brev'/ n.
Common abbreviation for `abbreviation'. :ABEND: [ABnormal END] /ah'bend/, /*-bend'/ n.
Abnormal termination (of software); {crash}; {lossage}.
Derives from an error message on the IBM 360; used jokingly by hackers but seriously mainly by {code grinder}s.
Usually capitalized, but may appear as `abend'.
Archaic term for a register.
On-line use of it as a synonym for `register' is a fairly reliable indication that the user has been around for quite a while and/or that the architecture under discussion is quite old.
The term in full is almost never used of microprocessor registers, for example, though symbolic names for arithmetic registers beginning in `A' derive from historical use of the term `accumulator' (and not, actually, from `arithmetic').
Confusingly, though, an `A' register name prefix may also stand for `address', as for example on the Motorola 680x0 family.
A register being used for arithmetic or logic (as opposed to addressing or a loop index), especially one being used to accumulate a sum or count of many items.
This use is in context of a particular routine or stretch of code.
The FOOBAZ routine uses A3 as an accumulator.
One's in-basket (esp. among old-timers who might use sense 1).
Sure, just put it in the accumulator." (See {stack}.) :ACK: /ak/ interj.
1. [from the ASCII mnemonic for 0000110] Acknowledge.
Used to register one's presence (compare mainstream *Yo!*).
An appropriate response to {ping} or {ENQ}. 2. [from the comic strip "Bloom County"] An exclamation of surprised disgust, esp. in "Ack pffft!
Semi-humorous. Generally this sense is not spelled in caps (ACK) and is distinguished by a following exclamation point.
Used to politely interrupt someone to tell them you understand their point (see {NAK}).
Thus, for example, you might cut off an overly long explanation with "Ack.
Gratuitous assumptions made inside certain programs, esp. expert systems, which lead to the appearance of semi-intelligent behavior but are in fact entirely arbitrary.
For example, fuzzy-matching input tokens that might be typing errors against a symbol table can make it look as though a program knows how to spell.
Special-case code to cope with some awkward input that would otherwise cause a program to {choke}, presuming normal inputs are dealt with in some cleaner and more regular way.
Also called `ad-hackery', `ad-hocity' (/ad-hos'*-tee/), `ad-crockery'.
See also {ELIZA effect}. :Ada:: n.
A {{Pascal}}-descended language that has been made mandatory for Department of Defense software projects by the Pentagon.
Hackers find Ada's exception-handling and inter-process communication features particularly hilarious.
E.g., "He started removing files and promptly adgered the whole project".
Compare {dumbass attack}. :admin: /ad-min'/ n.
Short for `administrator'; very commonly used in speech or on-line to refer to the systems person in charge on a computer.
Common constructions on this include `sysadmin' and `site admin' (emphasizing the administrator's role as a site contact for email and news) or `newsadmin' (focusing specifically on news).
Compare {postmaster}, {sysop}, {system mangler}. :ADVENT: /ad'vent/ n.
The prototypical computer adventure game, first implemented on the {PDP-10} by Will Crowther as an attempt at computer-refereed fantasy gaming, and expanded into a puzzle-oriented game by Don Woods.
Now better known as Adventure, but the {{TOPS-10}} operating system permitted only 6-letter filenames.
See also {vadding}. This game defined the terse, dryly humorous style now expected in text adventure games, and popularized several tag lines that have become fixtures of hacker-speak: "A huge green fierce snake bars the way!
I see no X here" (for some noun X).
You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.
You are in a little maze of twisty passages, all different.
Written-only abbreviation for "April Fool's Joke". Elaborate April Fool's hoaxes are a hallowed tradition on USENET and Internet; see {kremvax} for an example.
In fact, April Fool's Day is the *only* seasonal holiday marked by customary observances on the hacker networks. :AI-complete: /A-I k*m-pleet'/ [MIT, Stanford: by analogy with `NP-complete' (see {NP-})] adj.
Used to describe problems or subproblems in AI, to indicate that the solution presupposes a solution to the `strong AI problem' (that is, the synthesis of a human-level intelligence).
These may appear to be modular, but all attempts so far (1991) to solve them have foundered on the amount of context information and `intelligence' they seem to require.
See also {gedanken}. :AI koans: /A-I koh'anz/ pl.n.
A series of pastiches of Zen teaching riddles created by Danny Hillis at the MIT AI Lab around various major figures of the Lab's culture (several are included under "{A Selection of AI Koans}" in {appendix A}).
See also {ha ha only serious}, {mu}, and {{Humor, Hacker}}. :AIDS: /aydz/ n.
Short for A* Infected Disk Syndrome (`A*' is a {glob} pattern that matches, but is not limited to, Apple), this condition is quite often the result of practicing unsafe {SEX}.
See {virus}, {worm}, {Trojan horse}, {virgin}. :AIDX: n. /aydkz/ n.
Derogatory term for IBM's perverted version of UNIX, AIX, especially for the AIX 3.? used in the IBM RS/6000 series.
A victim of the dreaded "hybridism" disease, this attempt to combine the two main currents of the UNIX stream ({BSD} and {USG UNIX}) became a {monstrosity} to haunt system administrators' dreams.
For example, if new accounts are created while many users are logged on, the load average jumps quickly over 20 due to silly implementation of the user databases. For a quite similar disease, compare {HP-SUX}.
Also, compare {terminak}, {Macintrash} {Nominal Semidestructor}, {Open DeathTrap}, {ScumOS}, {sun-stools}. :airplane rule: n.
Complexity increases the possibility of failure; a twin-engine airplane has twice as many engine problems as a single-engine airplane.
By analogy, in both software and electronics, the rule that simplicity increases robustness (see also {KISS Principle}).
It is correspondingly argued that the right way to build reliable systems is to put all your eggs in one basket, after making sure that you've built a really *good* basket. :aliasing bug: n.
A class of subtle programming errors that can arise in code that does dynamic allocation, esp. via `malloc(3)' or equivalent.
Avoidable by use of allocation strategies that never alias allocated core.
Also avoidable by use of higher-level languages, such as {LISP}, which employ a garbage collector (see {GC}).
Also called a {stale pointer bug}.
Of a TSR (terminate-and-stay-resident) IBM PC program, such as the N pop-up calendar and calculator utilities that circulate on {BBS} systems: unsociable.
Used to describe a program that rudely steals the resources that it needs without considering that other TSRs may also be resident.
One particularly common form of rudeness is lock-up due to programs fighting over the keyboard interrupt.
See {rude}, also {mess-dos}. :alpha particles: n.
See {bit rot}. :alt: /awlt/ 1. n.
The alt shift key on an IBM PC or {clone}. 2. n.
The `clover' or `Command' key on a Macintosh; use of this term usually reveals that the speaker hacked PCs before coming to the Mac (see also {feature key}).
Some Mac hackers, confusingly, reserve `alt' for the Option key.
3. n.obs. [PDP-10; often capitalized to ALT] Alternate name for the ASCII ESC character (ASCII 0011011), after the keycap labeling on some older terminals.
This character was almost never pronounced `escape' on an ITS system, in {TECO}, or under TOPS-10 --- always alt, as in "Type alt alt to end a TECO command" or "alt-U onto the system" (for "log onto the [ITS] system").
This was probably because alt is more convenient to say than `escape', especially when followed by another alt or a character (or another alt *and* a character, for that matter). :alt bit: /awlt bit/ [from alternate] adj.
See {meta bit}. :altmode: n.
Syn. {alt} sense 3. :Aluminum Book: [MIT] n. `Common LISP: The Language', by Guy L.
Steele Jr. (Digital Press, first edition 1984, second edition 1990).
Note that due to a technical screwup some printings of the second edition are actually of a color the author describes succinctly as "yucky green".
See also {{book titles}}. :amoeba: n.
Humorous term for the Commodore Amiga personal computer. :amp off: [Purdue] vt. To run in {background}.
From the UNIX shell `&' operator. :amper: n.
Common abbreviation for the name of the ampersand (`&', ASCII 0100110) character.
See {{ASCII}} for other synonyms. :angle brackets: n.
Either of the characters `<' (ASCII 0111100) and `>' (ASCII 0111110) (ASCII less-than or greater-than signs).
The {Real World} angle brackets used by typographers are actually taller than a less-than or greater-than sign. See {broket}, {{ASCII}}. :angry fruit salad: n.
A bad visual-interface design that uses too many colors.
This derives, of course, from the bizarre day-glo colors found in canned fruit salad.
Too often one sees similar effects from interface designers using color window systems such as {X}; there is a tendency to create displays that are flashy and attention-getting but uncomfortable for long-term use. :annoybot: /*-noy-bot/ [IRC] n.
See {robot}. :AOS: 1. /aws/ (East Coast), /ay-os/ (West Coast) [based on a PDP-10 increment instruction] vt.,obs.
To increase the amount of something.
Usage: considered silly, and now obsolete.
Now largely supplanted by {bump}.
A {{Multics}}-derived OS supported at one time by Data General.
This was pronounced /A-O-S/ or /A-os/.
A spoof of the standard AOS system administrator's manual (`How to Load and Generate your AOS System') was created, issued a part number, and circulated as photocopy folklore.
It was called `How to Goad and Levitate your CHAOS System'.
Why, you may ask, does the `S' stand for `do not Skip' rather than for `Skip'?
Ah, here was a beloved piece of PDP-10 folklore.
Just plain AOS didn't say when to skip, so it never skipped. For similar reasons, AOJ meant `Add One and do not Jump'.
Even more bizarre, SKIP meant `do not SKIP'!
If you wanted to skip the next instruction, you had to say `SKIPA'.
Likewise, JUMP meant `do not JUMP'; the unconditional form was JUMPA.
However, hackers never did this.
By some quirk of the 10's design, the {JRST} (Jump and ReSTore flag with no flag specified) was actually faster and so was invariably used.
Such were the perverse mysteries of assembler programming. :app: /ap/ n.
Short for `application program', as opposed to a systems program.
What systems vendors are forever chasing developers to create for their environments so they can sell more boxes.
Hackers tend not to think of the things they themselves run as apps; thus, in hacker parlance the term excludes compilers, program editors, games, and messaging systems, though a user would consider all those to be apps.
Oppose {tool}, {operating system}. :arc: [primarily MSDOS] vt. To create a compressed {archive} from a group of files using SEA ARC, PKWare PKARC, or a compatible program.
Rapidly becoming obsolete as the ARC compression method is falling into disuse, having been replaced by newer compression techniques.
See {tar and feather}, {zip}. :arc wars: [primarily MSDOS] n. {holy wars} over which archiving program one should use.
The first arc war was sparked when System Enhancement Associates (SEA) sued PKWare for copyright and trademark infringement on its ARC program.
PKWare's PKARC outperformed ARC on both compression and speed while largely retaining compatibility (it introduced a new compression type that could be disabled for backward-compatibility).
PKWare settled out of court to avoid enormous legal costs (both SEA and PKWare are small companies); as part of the settlement, the name of PKARC was changed to PKPAK.
The public backlash against SEA for bringing suit helped to hasten the demise of ARC as a standard when PKWare and others introduced new, incompatible archivers with better compression algorithms. :archive: n.
A collection of several files bundled into one file by a program such as `ar(1)', `tar(1)', `cpio(1)', or {arc} for shipment or archiving (sense 2).
See also {tar and feather}.
A collection of files or archives (sense 1) made available from an `archive site' via {FTP} or an email server. :arena: [UNIX] n.
The area of memory attached to a process by `brk(2)' and `sbrk(2)' and used by `malloc(3)' as dynamic storage.
So named from a semi-mythical `malloc: corrupt arena' message supposedly emitted when some early versions became terminally confused.
See {overrun screw}, {aliasing bug}, {memory leak}, {memory smash}, {smash the stack}. :arg: /arg/ n.
Abbreviation for `argument' (to a function), used so often as to have become a new word (like `piano' from `pianoforte').
The sine function takes 1 arg, but the arc-tangent function can take either 1 or 2 args.
Compare {param}, {parm}, {var}. :armor-plated: n.
Syn. for {bulletproof}. :asbestos: adj.
Used as a modifier to anything intended to protect one from {flame}s.
Important cases of this include {asbestos longjohns} and {asbestos cork award}, but it is used more generally. :asbestos cork award: n.
Once, long ago at MIT, there was a {flamer} so consistently obnoxious that another hacker designed, had made, and distributed posters announcing that said flamer had been nominated for the `asbestos cork award'.
Persons in any doubt as to the intended application of the cork should consult the etymology under {flame}.
Since then, it is agreed that only a select few have risen to the heights of bombast required to earn this dubious dignity --- but there is no agreement on *which* few. :asbestos longjohns: n.
Notional garments often donned by {USENET} posters just before emitting a remark they expect will elicit {flamage}.
This is the most common of the {asbestos} coinages. Also `asbestos underwear', `asbestos overcoat', etc. :ASCII:: [American Standard Code for Information Interchange] /as'kee/ n.
The predominant character set encoding of present-day computers.
Uses 7 bits for each character, whereas most earlier codes (including an early version of ASCII) used fewer.
It could be worse, though.
It could be much worse.
See {{EBCDIC}} to understand how. Computers are much pickier and less flexible about spelling than humans; thus, hackers need to be very precise when talking about characters, and have developed a considerable amount of verbal shorthand for them.
Every character has one or more names --- some formal, some concise, some silly.
Common jargon names for ASCII characters are collected here.
See also individual entries for {bang}, {excl}, {open}, {ques}, {semi}, {shriek}, {splat}, {twiddle}, and {Yu-Shiang Whole Fish}. This list derives from revision 2.3 of the USENET ASCII pronunciation guide.
Single characters are listed in ASCII order; character pairs are sorted in by first member.
For each character, common names are given in rough order of popularity, followed by names that are reported but rarely seen; official ANSI/CCITT names are surrounded by brokets: <>.
Square brackets mark the particularly silly names introduced by {INTERCAL}.
Ordinary parentheticals provide some usage information. ! Common: {bang}; pling; excl; shriek; <exclamation mark>. Rare: factorial; exclam; smash; cuss; boing; yell; wow; hey; wham; eureka; [spark-spot]; soldier. " Common: double quote; quote.
Rare: literal mark; double-glitch; <quotation marks>; <dieresis>; dirk; [rabbit-ears]; double prime. # Common: <number sign>; pound; pound sign; hash; sharp; {crunch}; hex; [mesh]; octothorpe.
Rare: flash; crosshatch; grid; pig-pen; tictactoe; scratchmark; thud; thump; {splat}. $ Common: dollar; <dollar sign>.
Rare: currency symbol; buck; cash; string (from BASIC); escape (when used as the echo of ASCII ESC); ding; cache; [big money]. % Common: percent; <percent sign>; mod; grapes.
Rare: [double-oh-seven]. & Common: <ampersand>; amper; and.
Rare: address (from C); reference (from C++); andpersand; bitand; background (from `sh(1)'); pretzel; amp. [INTERCAL called this `ampersand'; what could be sillier?] ' Common: single quote; quote; <apostrophe>.
Rare: prime; glitch; tick; irk; pop; [spark]; <closing single quotation mark>; <acute accent>. () Common: left/right paren; left/right parenthesis; left/right; paren/thesis; open/close paren; open/close; open/close parenthesis; left/right banana.
Rare: so/al-ready; lparen/rparen; <opening/closing parenthesis>; open/close round bracket, parenthisey/unparenthisey; [wax/wane]; left/right ear. * Common: star; [{splat}]; <asterisk>.
Rare: wildcard; gear; dingle; mult; spider; aster; times; twinkle; glob (see {glob}); {Nathan Hale}. + Common: <plus>; add.
Rare: cross; [intersection]. , Common: <comma>.
Rare: <cedilla>; [tail]. - Common: dash; <hyphen>; <minus>.
Rare: [worm]; option; dak; bithorpe. . Common: dot; point; <period>; <decimal point>.
Rare: radix point; full stop; [spot]. / Common: slash; stroke; <slant>; forward slash.
Rare: diagonal; solidus; over; slak; virgule; [slat]. : Common: <colon>.
Rare: dots; [two-spot]. ; Common: <semicolon>; semi.
Rare: weenie; [hybrid], pit-thwong. <> Common: <less/greater than>; left/right angle bracket; bra/ket; left/right broket.
Rare: from/{into, towards}; read from/write to; suck/blow; comes-from/gozinta; in/out; crunch/zap (all from UNIX); [angle/right angle]. = Common: <equals>; gets; takes.
Rare: quadrathorpe; [half-mesh]. ? Common: query; <question mark>; {ques}.
Rare: whatmark; [what]; wildchar; huh; hook; buttonhook; hunchback. @ Common: at sign; at; strudel.
Rare: each; vortex; whorl; [whirlpool]; cyclone; snail; ape; cat; rose; cabbage; <commercial at>. V Rare: [book]. [] Common: left/right square bracket; <opening/closing bracket>; bracket/unbracket; left/right bracket.
Rare: square/unsquare; [U turn/U turn back]. \ Common: backslash; escape (from C/UNIX); reverse slash; slosh; backslant; backwhack.
Rare: bash; <reverse slant>; reversed virgule; [backslat]. ^ Common: hat; control; uparrow; caret; <circumflex>.
Rare: chevron; [shark (or shark-fin)]; to the (`to the power of'); fang; pointer (in Pascal). _ Common: <underline>; underscore; underbar; under.
Rare: score; backarrow; skid; [flatworm]. ` Common: backquote; left quote; left single quote; open quote; <grave accent>; grave.
Rare: backprime; [backspark]; unapostrophe; birk; blugle; back tick; back glitch; push; <opening single quotation mark>; quasiquote. {} Common: open/close brace; left/right brace; left/right squiggly; left/right squiggly bracket/brace; left/right curly bracket/brace; <opening/closing brace>.
Rare: brace/unbrace; curly/uncurly; leftit/rytit; left/right squirrelly; [embrace/bracelet]. | Common: bar; or; or-bar; v-bar; pipe; vertical bar.
Rare: <vertical line>; gozinta; thru; pipesinta (last three from UNIX); [spike]. ~ Common: <tilde>; squiggle; {twiddle}; not.
The U.S. usage derives from an old-fashioned commercial practice of using a `#' suffix to tag pound weights on bills of lading.
Hardware and software from the U.S. still tends to embody the assumption that ASCII is the universal character set; this is a a major irritant to people who want to use a character set suited to their own languages.
Perversely, though, efforts to solve this problem by proliferating `national' character sets produce an evolutionary pressure to use a *smaller* subset common to all those in use. :ASCII art: n.
The fine art of drawing diagrams using the ASCII character set (mainly `|', `-', `/', `\', and `+').
Also known as `character graphics' or `ASCII graphics'; see also {boxology}.
A parsec (parallax-second) is 3.26 light-years; an attoparsec is thus 3.26 * 10^(-18) light years, or about 3.1 cm (thus, 1 attoparsec/{microfortnight} equals about 1 inch/sec).
This unit is reported to be in use (though probably not very seriously) among hackers in the U.K.
See {micro-}. :autobogotiphobia: /aw'to-boh-got`*-foh'bee-*/ n.
See {bogotify}. :automagically: /aw-toh-maj'i-klee/ or /aw-toh-maj'i-k*l-ee/ adv. Automatically, but in a way that, for some reason (typically because it is too complicated, or too ugly, or perhaps even too trivial), the speaker doesn't feel like explaining to you.
The C-INTERCAL compiler generates C, then automagically invokes `cc(1)' to produce an executable." :avatar: [CMU, Tektronix] n.
There are quite a few UNIX machines on which the name of the superuser account is `avatar' rather than `root'.
It is characterized by C-like syntax, a declaration-free approach to variable typing and declarations, associative arrays, and field-oriented text processing.
Editing term for an expression awkward to manipulate through normal {regexp} facilities (for example, one containing a {newline}).
3. vt. To process data using `awk(1)'. = B = ===== :back door: n.
A hole in the security of a system deliberately left in place by designers or maintainers.
See also {iron box}, {cracker}, {worm}, {logic bomb}. :backbone cabal: n.
A group of large-site administrators who pushed through the {Great Renaming} and reined in the chaos of {USENET} during most of the 1980s.
The cabal {mailing list} disbanded in late 1988 after a bitter internal catfight, but the net hardly noticed. :backbone site: n.
Nowadays this term is primarily associated with {{UNIX}}, but it appears to have been first used in this sense on OS/360. :backspace and overstrike: interj.
Used to suggest that someone just said or did something wrong.
Common among APL programmers. :backward combatability: /bak'w*rd k*m-bat'*-bil'*-tee/ [from `backward compatibility'] n.
A property of hardware or software revisions in which previous protocols, formats, and layouts are discarded in favor of `new and improved' protocols, formats, and layouts.
Occurs usually when making the transition between major releases.
When the change is so drastic that the old formats are not retained in the new version, it is said to be `backward combatable'.
See {flag day}. :BAD: /B-A-D/ [IBM: acronym, `Broken As Designed'] adj.
Said of a program that is {bogus} because of bad design and misfeatures rather than because of bugginess.
See {working as designed}. :Bad Thing: [from the 1930 Sellar & Yeatman parody `1066 And All That'] n.
Something that can't possibly result in improvement of the subject.
This term is always capitalized, as in "Replacing all of the 9600-baud modems with bicycle couriers would be a Bad Thing".
British correspondents confirm that {Bad Thing} and {Good Thing} (and prob. therefore {Right Thing} and {Wrong Thing}) come from the book referenced in the etymology, which discusses rulers who were Good Kings but Bad Things.
This has apparently created a mainstream idiom on the British side of the pond. :bag on the side: n.
An extension to an established hack that is supposed to add some functionality to the original.
Usually derogatory, implying that the original was being overextended and should have been thrown away, and the new product is ugly, inelegant, or bloated.
Also v. phrase, `to hang a bag on the side [of]'.
That's just a bag on the side of C ...." "They want me to hang a bag on the side of the accounting system." :bagbiter: /bag'bi:t-*r/ n.
Something, such as a program or a computer, that fails to work, or works in a remarkably clumsy manner.
This text editor won't let me make a file with a line longer than 80 characters!
A person who has caused you some trouble, inadvertently or otherwise, typically by failing to program the computer properly.
3. adj. `bagbiting' Having the quality of a bagbiter.
This bagbiting system won't let me compute the factorial of a negative number.
Compare {losing}, {cretinous}, {bletcherous}, `barfucious' (under {barfulous}) and `chomping' (under {chomp}).
4. `bite the bag' vi.
To fail in some manner.
The computer keeps crashing every 5 minutes.
Yes, the disk controller is really biting the bag.
Notional sound made by a person or object teleporting in or out of the hearer's vicinity.
Often used in {virtual reality} (esp. {MUD}) electronic {fora} when a character wishes to make a dramatic entrance or exit.
The sound of magical transformation, used in virtual reality {fora} like sense 1.
3. [from `Don Washington's Survival Guide'] n.
Acronym for `Bad-Ass Mother Fucker', used to refer to one of the handful of nastiest monsters on an LPMUD or other similar MUD. :banana label: n.
The labels often used on the sides of {macrotape} reels, so called because they are shaped roughly like blunt-ended bananas.
This term, like macrotapes themselves, is still current but visibly headed for obsolescence. :banana problem: n. [from the story of the little girl who said "I know how to spell `banana', but I don't know when to stop"].
Not knowing where or when to bring a production to a close (compare {fencepost error}).
One may say `there is a banana problem' of an algorithm with poorly defined or incorrect termination conditions, or in discussing the evolution of a design that may be succumbing to featuritis (see also {creeping elegance}, {creeping featuritis}).
See item 176 under {HAKMEM}, which describes a banana problem in a {Dissociated Press} implementation.
Also, see {one-banana problem} for a superficially similar but unrelated usage. :bandwidth: n.
Used by hackers in a generalization of its technical meaning as the volume of information per unit time that a computer, person, or transmission medium can handle.
Those are amazing graphics, but I missed some of the detail --- not enough bandwidth, I guess.
On {USENET}, a measure of network capacity that is often wasted by people complaining about how items posted by others are a waste of bandwidth. :bang: 1. n.
Common spoken name for `!' (ASCII 0100001), especially when used in pronouncing a {bang path} in spoken hackish.
Note that it is used exclusively for non-emphatic written `!'; one would not say "Congratulations bang" (except possibly for humorous purposes), but if one wanted to specify the exact characters `foo!' one would speak "Eff oh oh bang".
An exclamation signifying roughly "I have achieved enlightenment!", or "The dynamite has cleared out my brain!
I guess it is ready for release.
The term {pound on} is synonymous. :bang path: n.
Bang paths of 8 to 10 hops were not uncommon in 1981.
Late-night dial-up UUCP links would cause week-long transmission times.
Bang paths were often selected by both transmission time and reliability, as messages would often get lost.
See {{Internet address}}, {network, the}, and {sitename}. :banner: n.
The title page added to printouts by most print spoolers (see {spool}).
Typically includes user or account ID information in very large character-graphics capitals.
Also called a `burst page', because it indicates where to burst (tear apart) fanfold paper to separate one user's printout from the next.
A similar printout generated (typically on multiple pages of fan-fold paper) from user-specified text, e.g., by a program such as UNIX's `banner({1,6})'.
On interactive software, a first screen containing a logo and/or author credits and/or a copyright notice. :bar: /bar/ n.
The second {metasyntactic variable}, after {foo} and before {baz}.
Suppose we have two functions: FOO and BAR. FOO calls BAR....
Often appended to {foo} to produce {foobar}. :bare metal: n.
New computer hardware, unadorned with such snares and delusions as an {operating system}, an {HLL}, or even assembler.
Commonly used in the phrase `programming on the bare metal', which refers to the arduous work of {bit bashing} needed to create these basic tools for a new machine.
This sort of thing has become less common as the relative costs of programming time and machine resources have changed, but is still found in heavily constrained environments such as industrial embedded systems.
To get 19.2 kilobaud on the serial port, you need to get down to the bare metal.
People who can do this sort of thing are held in high regard. :barf: /barf/ [from mainstream slang meaning `vomit'] 1. interj.
This is the closest hackish equivalent of the Val\-speak "gag me with a spoon". (Like, euwww!) See {bletch}.
To say "Barf!" or emit some similar expression of disgust.
I showed him my latest hack and he barfed" means only that he complained about it, not that he literally vomited.
To fail to work because of unacceptable input.
May mean to give an error message.
In Commonwealth hackish, `barf' is generally replaced by `puke' or `vom'. {barf} is sometimes also used as a {metasyntactic variable}, like {foo} or {bar}. :barfmail: n.
Multiple {bounce message}s accumulating to the level of serious annoyance, or worse.
The sort of thing that happens when an inter-network mail gateway goes down or wonky. :barfulation: /bar`fyoo-lay'sh*n/ interj.
Variation of {barf} used around the Stanford area.
An exclamation, expressing disgust. On seeing some particularly bad code one might exclaim, "Barfulation!
Who wrote this, Quux?" :barfulous: /bar'fyoo-l*s/ adj. (alt. `barfucious', /bar-fyoo-sh*s/) Said of something that would make anyone barf, if only for esthetic reasons. :barney: n.
In Commonwealth hackish, `barney' is to {fred} (sense #1) as {bar} is to {foo}.
That is, people who commonly use `fred' as their first metasyntactic variable will often use `barney' second.
The reference is, of course, to Fred Flintstone and Barney Rubble in the Flintstones cartoons. :baroque: adj.
Feature-encrusted; complex; gaudy; verging on excessive.
Said of hardware or (esp.) software designs, this has many of the connotations of {elephantine} or {monstrosity} but is less extreme and not pejorative in itself.
Metafont even has features to introduce random variations to its letterform output. Now *that* is baroque!
See also {rococo}. :BartleMUD: /bar'tl-muhd/ n.
Any of the MUDs derived from the original MUD game by Richard Bartle and Roy Trubshaw (see {MUD}).
BartleMUDs are noted for their (usually slightly offbeat) humor, dry but friendly syntax, and lack of adjectives in object descriptions, so a player is likely to come across `brand172', for instance (see {brand brand brand}).
Bartle has taken a bad rap in some MUDding circles for supposedly originating this term, but (like the story that MUD is a trademark) this appears to be a myth; he uses `MUD1'. :BASIC: n.
A programming language, originally designed for Dartmouth's experimental timesharing system in the early 1960s, which has since become the leading cause of brain-damage in proto-hackers.
This is another case (like {Pascal}) of the bad things that happen when a language deliberately designed as an educational toy gets taken too seriously.
This wouldn't be so bad if historical accidents hadn't made BASIC so common on low-end micros.
As it is, it ruins thousands of potential wizards a year. :batch: adj.
Hackers use this somewhat more loosely than the traditional technical definitions justify; in particular, switches on a normally interactive program that prepare it to receive non-interactive command input are often referred to as `batch mode' switches.
A `batch file' is a series of instructions written to be handed to an interactive program running in batch mode.
Performance of dreary tasks all at one sitting. "I finally sat down in batch mode and wrote out checks for all those bills; I guess they'll turn the electricity back on next week...
Accumulation of a number of small tasks that can be lumped together for greater efficiency.
I'm batching up those letters to send sometime" "I'm batching up bottles to take to the recycling center." :bathtub curve: n.
See also {burn-in period}, {infant mortality}. :baud: /bawd/ [simplified from its technical meaning] n.
Hence kilobaud or Kbaud, thousands of bits per second. The technical meaning is `level transitions per second'; this coincides with bps only for two-level modulation with no framing or stop bits.
Most hackers are aware of these nuances but blithely ignore them. Histotical note: this was originally a unit of telegraph signalling speed, set at one pulse per second.
It was proposed at the International Telegraph Conference of 1927, and named after J.M.E. Baudot (1845-1903), the French engineer who constructed the first successful teleprinter. :baud barf: /bawd barf/ n.
The third {metasyntactic variable} "Suppose we have three functions: FOO, BAR, and BAZ.
FOO calls BAR, which calls BAZ...." (See also {fum}) 2. interj.
A term of mild annoyance.
In this usage the term is often drawn out for 2 or 3 seconds, producing an effect not unlike the bleating of a sheep; /baaaaaaz/.
Occasionally appended to {foo} to produce `foobaz'. Earlier versions of this lexicon derived `baz' as a Stanford corruption of {bar}.
However, Pete Samson (compiler of the {TMRC} lexicon) reports it was already current when he joined TMRC in 1958.
He says "It came from `Pogo'.
At CMU and other colleges with similar facilities, refers to campus-wide electronic bulletin boards.
The term `physical bboard' is sometimes used to refer to a old-fashioned, non-electronic cork memo board.
An electronic bulletin board system; that is, a message database where people can log in and leave broadcast messages for others grouped (typically) into {topic group}s.
Compare {blast}, {snarf}, {BLT}. :beanie key: [Mac users] n.
See {command key}. :beep: n.,v.
This term seems to be preferred among micro hobbyists. :beige toaster: n.
See {toaster}; compare {Macintrash}, {maggotbox}. :bells and whistles: [by analogy with the toyboxes on theater organs] n.
Features added to a program or system to make it more {flavorful} from a hacker's point of view, without necessarily adding to its utility for its primary function.
Distinguished from {chrome}, which is intended to attract users.
Now that we've got the basic program working, let's go back and add some bells and whistles.
No one seems to know what distinguishes a bell from a whistle. :bells, whistles, and gongs: n.
A standard elaborated form of {bells and whistles}; typically said with a pronounced and ironic accent on the `gongs'. :benchmark: [techspeak] n.
An inaccurate measure of computer performance.
In the computer industry, there are three kinds of lies: lies, damn lies, and benchmarks.
Well-known ones include Whetstone, Dhrystone, Rhealstone (see {h}), the Gabriel LISP benchmarks (see {gabriel}), the SPECmark suite, and LINPACK.
See also {machoflops}, {MIPS}, {smoke and mirrors}. :Berkeley Quality Software: adj. (often abbreviated `BQS') Term used in a pejorative sense to refer to software that was apparently created by rather spaced-out hackers late at night to solve some unique problem.
It usually has nonexistent, incomplete, or incorrect documentation, has been tested on at least two examples, and core dumps when anyone else attempts to use it.
This term was frequently applied to early versions of the `dbx(1)' debugger. See also {Berzerkeley}. :berklix: /berk'liks/ n.,adj. [contraction of `Berkeley UNIX'] See {BSD}.
Not used at Berkeley itself.
May be more common among {suit}s attempting to sound like cognoscenti than among hackers, who usually just say `BSD'. :berserking: vi.
A {MUD} term meaning to gain points *only* by killing other players and mobiles (non-player characters). Hence, a Berserker-Wizard is a player character that has achieved enough points to become a wizard, but only by killing other characters.
Berserker wizards can seriously damage your elf!" :Berzerkeley: /b*r-zer'klee/ [from `berserk', via the name of a now-deceased record label] n.
Humorous distortion of `Berkeley' used esp. to refer to the practices or products of the {BSD} UNIX hackers.
In the {Real World}, software often goes through two stages of testing: Alpha (in-house) and Beta (out-house?).
Software is said to be `in beta'.
Anything that is new and experimental is in beta.
His girlfriend is in beta" means that he is still testing for compatibility and reserving judgment.
Beta software is notoriously buggy, so `in beta' connotes flakiness. Historical note: More formally, to beta-test is to test a pre-release (potentially unreliable) version of a piece of software by making it available to selected customers and users.
This term derives from early 1960s terminology for product cycle checkpoints, first used at IBM but later standard throughout the industry. `Alpha Test' was the unit, module, or component test phase; `Beta Test' was initial system test.
These themselves came from earlier A- and B-tests for hardware.
The A-test was a feasibility and manufacturability evaluation done before any commitment to design and development.
The B-test was a demonstration that the engineering model functioned as specified.
The C-test (corresponding to today's beta) was the B-test performed on early samples of the production design. :BFI: /B-F-I/ n.
See {brute force and ignorance}.
Also encountered in the variants `BFMI', `brute force and *massive* ignorance' and `BFBI' `brute force and bloody ignorance'. :bible: n.
One of a small number of fundamental source books such as {Knuth} and {K&R}.
The most detailed and authoritative reference for a particular language, operating system, or other complex software system. :BiCapitalization: n.
The act said to have been performed on trademarks (such as {PostScript}, NeXT, {NeWS}, VisiCalc, FrameMaker, TK!solver, EasyWriter) that have been raised above the ruck of common coinage by nonstandard capitalization.
Too many {marketroid} types think this sort of thing is really cute, even the 2,317th time they do it.
Compare {studlycaps}. :BIFF: /bif/ [USENET] n.
The most famous {pseudo}, and the prototypical {newbie}.
BIFF posts articles using his elder brother's VIC-20.
BIFF's location is a mystery, as his articles appear to come from a variety of sites.
However, {BITNET} seems to be the most frequent origin.
The theory that BIFF is a denizen of BITNET is supported by BIFF's (unfortunately invalid) electronic mail address: BIFF@BIT.NET. :biff: /bif/ vt. To notify someone of incoming mail.
No relation to {BIFF}. :Big Gray Wall: n.
What faces a {VMS} user searching for documentation.
A full VMS kit comes on a pallet, the documentation taking up around 15 feet of shelf space before the addition of layered products such as compilers, databases, multivendor networking, and programming tools.
Recent (since VMS version 5) DEC documentation comes with gray binders; under VMS version 4 the binders were orange (`big orange wall'), and under version 3 they were blue.
Often contracted to `Gray Wall'. :big iron: n.
Used generally of {number-crunching} supercomputers such as Crays, but can include more conventional big commercial IBMish mainframes.
Term of approval; compare {heavy metal}, oppose {dinosaur}. :Big Red Switch: [IBM] n.
The power switch on a computer, esp. the `Emergency Pull' switch on an IBM {mainframe} or the power switch on an IBM PC where it really is large and red.
Compare {power cycle}, {three-finger salute}, {120 reset}; see also {scram switch}. :Big Room, the: n.
The extremely large room with the blue ceiling and intensely bright light (during the day) or black ceiling with lots of tiny night-lights (during the night) found outside all computer installations.
He can't come to the phone right now, he's somewhere out in the Big Room." :big win: n.
Yes, those two physicists discovered high-temperature superconductivity in a batch of ceramic that had been prepared incorrectly according to their experimental schedule. Small mistake; big win!
See {win big}. :big-endian: [From Swift's `Gulliver's Travels' via the famous paper `On Holy Wars and a Plea for Peace' by Danny Cohen, USC/ISI IEN 137, dated April 1, 1980] adj.
Describes a computer architecture in which, within a given multi-byte numeric representation, the most significant byte has the lowest address (the word is stored `big-end-first').
Most processors, including the IBM 370 family, the {PDP-10}, the Motorola microprocessor families, and most of the various RISC designs current in mid-1991, are big-endian.
See {little-endian}, {middle-endian}, {NUXI problem}.
An {{Internet address}} the wrong way round.
Most of the world follows the Internet standard and writes email addresses starting with the name of the computer and ending up with the name of the country.
In the U.K. the Joint Networking Team had decided to do it the other way round before the Internet domain standard was established; e.g., me@uk.ac.wigan.cs.
Most gateway sites have {ad-hockery} in their mailers to handle this, but can still be confused.
In particular, the address above could be in the U.K. (domain uk) or Czechoslovakia (domain cs). :bignum: /big'nuhm/ [orig. from MIT MacLISP] n.
1. [techspeak] A multiple-precision computer representation for very large integers. More generally, any very large number.
Have you ever looked at the United States Budget?
There's bignums for you!" 2. [Stanford] In backgammon, large numbers on the dice are called `bignums', especially a roll of double fives or double sixes (compare {moby}, sense 4).
See also {El Camino Bignum}. Sense 1 may require some explanation.
Most computer languages provide a kind of data called `integer', but such computer integers are usually very limited in size; usually they must be smaller than than 2^(31) (2,147,483,648) or (on a losing {bitty box}) 2^(15) (32,768).
A person who is religiously attached to a particular computer, language, operating system, editor, or other tool (see {religious issues}).
Usually found with a specifier; thus, `cray bigot', `ITS bigot', `APL bigot', `VMS bigot', `Berkeley bigot'.
True bigots can be distinguished from mere partisans or zealots by the fact that they refuse to learn alternatives even when the march of time and/or technology is threatening to obsolete the favored tool.
It is said "You can tell a bigot, but you can't tell him much.
Compare {weenie}. :bit: [from the mainstream meaning and `Binary digIT'] n. 1. [techspeak] The unit of information; the amount of information obtained by asking a yes-or-no question for which the two outcomes are equally probable.
2. [techspeak] A computational quantity that can take on one of two values, such as true and false or 0 and 1. 3.
A mental flag: a reminder that something should be done eventually.
I have a bit set for you." (I haven't seen you for a while, and I'm supposed to tell or ask you something.) 4.
More generally, a (possibly incorrect) mental state of belief.
One speaks of setting and clearing bits.
To {toggle} or `invert' a bit is to change it, either from 0 to 1 or from 1 to 0.
See also {flag}, {trit}, {mode bit}. The term `bit' first appeared in print in the computer-science sense in 1949, and seems to have been coined by early computer scientist John Tukey.
Tukey records that it evolved over a lunch table as a handier alternative to `bigit' or `binit'. :bit bang: n.
Transmission of data on a serial line, when accomplished by rapidly tweaking a single output bit at the appropriate times.
The technique is a simple loop with eight OUT and SHIFT instruction pairs for each byte. Input is more interesting.
May connote either tedium or a real technical challenge (more usually the former).
The command decoding for the new tape driver looks pretty solid but the bit-bashing for the control registers still has bugs.
See also {bit bang}, {mode bit}. :bit bucket: n.
The universal data sink (originally, the mythical receptacle used to catch bits when they fall off the end of a register during a shift instruction).
Discarded, lost, or destroyed data is said to have `gone to the bit bucket'.
On {{UNIX}}, often used for {/dev/null}.
Sometimes amplified as `the Great Bit Bucket in the Sky'.
The place where all lost mail and news messages eventually go.
The selection is performed according to {Finagle's Law}; important mail is much more likely to end up in the bit bucket than junk mail, which has an almost 100% probability of getting delivered.
Routing to the bit bucket is automatically performed by mail-transfer agents, news systems, and the lower layers of the network.
The ideal location for all unwanted mail responses: "Flames about this article to the bit bucket.
Such a request is guaranteed to overflow one's mailbox with flames.
Excuse for all mail that has not been sent.
I mailed you those figures last week; they must have ended in the bit bucket.
Compare {black hole}. This term is used purely in jest.
It is based on the fanciful notion that bits are objects that are not destroyed but only misplaced.
See also {chad box}. Another variant of this legend has it that, as a consequence of the `parity preservation law', the number of 1 bits that go to the bit bucket must equal the number of 0 bits.
Any imbalance results in bits filling up the bit bucket.
A qualified computer technician can empty a full bit bucket as part of scheduled maintenance. :bit decay: n.
People with a physics background tend to prefer this one for the analogy with particle decay.
See also {computron}, {quantum bogodynamics}. :bit rot: n.
Hypothetical disease the existence of which has been deduced from the observation that unused programs or features will often stop working after sufficient time has passed, even if `nothing has changed'.
The theory explains that bits decay as if they were radioactive.
The notion long favored among hackers that cosmic rays are among the causes of such events turns out to be a myth; see the {cosmic rays} entry for details. The term {software rot} is almost synonymous.
Software rot is the effect, bit rot the notional cause. :bit twiddling: n.
1. (pejorative) An exercise in tuning (see {tune}) in which incredible amounts of time and effort go to produce little noticeable improvement, often with the result that the code has become incomprehensible.
Aimless small modification to a program, esp. for some pointless goal. 3.
The ASR-33 was a mechanical device (see {EOU}), so the only way to generate the character codes from keystrokes was by some physical linkage.
The design of the ASR-33 assigned each character key a basic pattern that could be modified by flipping bits if the SHIFT or the CTRL key was pressed.
Some vendors opted to emulate the Teletype keyboard, while others used the flexibility of electronic circuitry to make their product look like an office typewriter.
These alternatives became known as `bit-paired' and `typewriter-paired' keyboards.
The `typewriter-paired' standard became universal, `bit-paired' hardware was quickly junked or relegated to dusty corners, and both terms passed into disuse. :bitblt: /bit'blit/ n. [from {BLT}, q.v.] 1.
Synonym for {blit} or {BLT}.
Both uses are borderline techspeak. :BITNET: /bit'net/ [acronym: Because It's Time NETwork] n. Everybody's least favorite piece of the network (see {network, the}).
BITNET is also notorious as the apparent home of {BIFF}. :bits: n.pl.
Examples: "I need some bits about file formats." ("I need to know about file formats.") Compare {core dump}, sense 4.
A computer sufficiently small, primitive, or incapable as to cause a hacker acute claustrophobia at the thought of developing software on or for it.
Especially used of small, obsolescent, single-tasking-only personal machines such as the Atari 800, Osborne, Sinclair, VIC-20, TRS-80, or IBM PC.
2. [Pejorative] More generally, the opposite of `real computer' (see {Get a real computer!}).
See also {mess-dos}, {toaster}, and {toy}. :bixie: /bik'see/ n.
Variant {emoticon}s used on BIX (the Byte Information eXchange).
The {smiley} bixie is <@_@>, apparently intending to represent two cartoon eyes and a mouth.
A few others have been reported. :black art: n.
A collection of arcane, unpublished, and (by implication) mostly ad-hoc techniques developed for a particular application or systems area (compare {black magic}).
VLSI design and compiler code optimization were (in their beginnings) considered classic examples of black art; as theory developed they became {deep magic}, and once standard textbooks had been written, became merely {heavy wizardry}.
The huge proliferation of formal and informal channels for spreading around new computer-related technologies during the last twenty years has made both the term `black art' and what it describes less common than formerly.
See also {voodoo programming}. :black hole: n.
When a piece of email or netnews disappears mysteriously between its origin and destination sites (that is, without returning a {bounce message}) it is commonly said to have `fallen into a black hole'.
Compare {bit bucket}. :black magic: n.
A technique that works, though nobody really understands why.
More obscure than {voodoo programming}, which may be done by cookbook.
Compare also {black art}, {deep magic}, and {magic number} (sense 2). :blargh: /blarg/ [MIT] n.
The opposite of {ping}, sense 5; an exclamation indicating that one has absorbed or is emitting a quantum of unhappiness.
Less common than {ping}. :blast: 1. vt.,n.
Synonym for {BLT}, used esp. for large data sends over a network or comm line.
The variant `blat' has been reported.
2. vt. [HP/Apollo] Synonymous with {nuke} (sense 3).
Sometimes the message `Unable to kill all processes.
Blast them (y/n)?' would appear in the command window upon logout. :blat: n.
See {thud}. :bletch: /blech/ [from Yiddish/German `brechen', to vomit, poss. via comic-strip exclamation `blech'] interj.
Term of disgust. Often used in "Ugh, bletch".
Compare {barf}. :bletcherous: /blech'*-r*s/ adj.
Disgusting in design or function; esthetically unappealing.
This word is seldom used of people. "This keyboard is bletcherous!" (Perhaps the keys don't work very well, or are misplaced.) See {losing}, {cretinous}, {bagbiter}, {bogus}, and {random}.
The term {bletcherous} applies to the esthetics of the thing so described; similarly for {cretinous}.
By contrast, something that is `losing' or `bagbiting' may be failing to meet objective criteria.
See also {bogus} and {random}, which have richer and wider shades of meaning than any of the above. :blinkenlights: /blink'*n-li:tz/ n.
Front-panel diagnostic lights on a computer, esp. a {dinosaur}.
Derives from the last word of the famous blackletter-Gothic sign in mangled pseudo-German that once graced about half the computer rooms in the English-speaking world.
One version ran in its entirety as follows: ACHTUNG!
Das computermachine ist nicht fuer gefingerpoken und mittengrabben. Ist easy schnappen der springenwerk, blowenfusen und poppencorken mit spitzensparken.
So all the "lefthanders" stay away and do not disturben the brainstorming von here working intelligencies.
Otherwise you will be out thrown and kicked anderswhere!
Also: please keep still and only watchen astaunished the blinkenlights. See also {geef}. :blit: /blit/ vt. 1.
To copy a large array of bits from one part of a computer's memory to another part, particularly when the memory is being used to determine what is shown on a display screen.
The storage allocator picks through the table and copies the good parts up into high memory, and then blits it all back down again.
See {bitblt}, {BLT}, {dd}, {cat}, {blast}, {snarf}.
More generally, to perform some operation (such as toggling) on a large array of bits while moving them. 2.
All-capitalized as `BLIT': an early experimental bit-mapped terminal designed by Rob Pike at Bell Labs, later commercialized as the AT&T 5620. (The folk etymology from `Bell Labs Intelligent Terminal' is incorrect.) :blitter: /blit'r/ n.
A special-purpose chip or hardware system built to perform {blit} operations, esp. used for fast implementation of bit-mapped graphics.
The Commodore Amiga and a few other micros have these, but in 1991 the trend is away from them (however, see {cycle of reincarnation}).
Syn. {raster blaster}. :blivet: /bliv'*t/ [allegedly from a World War II military term meaning "ten pounds of manure in a five-pound bag"] n.
A crucial piece of hardware that can't be fixed or replaced if it breaks.
A tool that has been hacked over by so many incompetent programmers that it has become an unmaintainable tissue of hacks.
An out-of-control but unkillable development effort.
It has also been used to describe an amusing trick-the-eye drawing resembling a three-pronged fork that appears to depict a three-dimensional object until one realizes that the parts fit together in an impossible way. :BLOB: [acronym, Binary Large OBject] n.
Used by database people to refer to any random large block of bits which needs to be stored in a database, such as a picture or sound file.
The essential point about a BLOB is that it's an object you can't interpret within the database itself. :block: [from process scheduling terminology in OS theory] 1. vi. To delay or sit idle while waiting for something.
We're blocking until everyone gets here.
2. `block on' vt. To block, waiting for (something).
Lunch is blocked on Phil's arrival." :block transfer computations: n.
This term arises because the programming process for the Programmable Read-Only Memories (PROMs) that preceded present-day Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memories (EPROMs) involved intentionally blowing tiny electrical fuses on the chip.
Thus, one was said to `blow' (or `blast') a PROM, and the terminology carried over even though the write process on EPROMs is nondestructive. :blow away: vt. To remove (files and directories) from permanent storage, generally by accident.
He reformatted the wrong partition and blew away last night's netnews.
Oppose {nuke}. :blow out: vi.
Of software, to fail spectacularly; almost as serious as {crash and burn}.
See {blow past}, {blow up}, {die horribly}. :blow past: vt. To {blow out} despite a safeguard.
The server blew past the 5K reserve buffer." :blow up: vi.
1. [scientific computation] To become unstable.
Suggests that the computation is diverging so rapidly that it will soon overflow or at least go {nonlinear}.
Syn. {blow out}. :BLT: /B-L-T/, /bl*t/ or (rarely) /belt/ n.,vt. Synonym for {blit}.
This is the original form of {blit} and the ancestor of {bitblt}.
It referred to any large bit-field copy or move operation (one resource-intensive memory-shuffling operation done on pre-paged versions of ITS, WAITS, and TOPS-10 was sardonically referred to as `The Big BLT').
The jargon usage has outlasted the {PDP-10} BLock Transfer instruction from which {BLT} derives; nowadays, the assembler mnemonic {BLT} almost always means `Branch if Less Than zero'. :Blue Book: n.
Informal name for one of the three standard references on Smalltalk: `Smalltalk-80: The Language and its Implementation', David Robson, Addison-Wesley 1983, QA76.8.S635G64, ISBN 0-201-11371-63 (this is also associated with green and red books).
Any of the 1988 standards issued by the CCITT's ninth plenary assembly.
Until now, they have changed color each review cycle (1984 was {Red Book}, 1992 would be {Green Book}); however, it is rumored that this convention is going to be dropped before 1992.
These include, among other things, the X.400 email spec and the Group 1 through 4 fax standards.
See also {{book titles}}. :Blue Glue: [IBM] n.
IBM's SNA (Systems Network Architecture), an incredibly {losing} and {bletcherous} communications protocol widely favored at commercial shops that don't know any better.
The official IBM definition is "that which binds blue boxes together.
It may not be irrelevant that {Blue Glue} is the trade name of a 3M product that is commonly used to hold down the carpet squares to the removable panel floors common in {dinosaur pen}s.
Minn. reports that the CS department there has about 80 bottles of the stuff hanging about, so they often refer to any messy work to be done as `using the blue glue'. :blue goo: n.
Term for `police' {nanobot}s intended to prevent {gray goo}, denature hazardous waste, destroy pollution, put ozone back into the stratosphere, prevent halitosis, and promote truth, justice, and the American way, etc. See {{nanotechnology}}. :blue wire: [IBM] n.
Patch wires added to circuit boards at the factory to correct design or fabrication problems.
This may be necessary if there hasn't been time to design and qualify another board version. Compare {purple wire}, {red wire}, {yellow wire}. :blurgle: /bler'gl/ [Great Britain] n.
Spoken {metasyntactic variable}, to indicate some text which is obvious from context, or which is already known.
If several words are to be replaced, blurgle may well be doubled or trebled.
To look for something in several files use `grep string blurgle blurgle'.
In each case, "blurgle blurgle" would be understood to be replaced by the file you wished to search.
Compare {mumble}, sense 6. :BNF: /B-N-F/ n.
1. [techspeak] Acronym for `Backus-Naur Form', a metasyntactic notation used to specify the syntax of programming languages, command sets, and the like.
Widely used for language descriptions but seldom documented anywhere, so that it must usually be learned by osmosis from other hackers.
A personal-part consists of either a first name or an initial followed by a dot.
A street address consists of an optional apartment specifier, followed by a street number, followed by a street name.
A zip-part consists of a town-name, followed by a comma, followed by a state code, followed by a ZIP-code followed by an end-of-line.
Note that many things (such as the format of a personal-part, apartment specifier, or ZIP-code) are left unspecified.
These are presumed to be obvious from context or detailed somewhere nearby.
The term is also used loosely for any number of variants and extensions, possibly containing some or all of the {regexp} wildcards such as `*' or `+'.
In fact the example above isn't the pure form invented for the Algol-60 report; it uses `[]', which was introduced a few years later in IBM's PL/I definition but is now universally recognized.
In {{science-fiction fandom}}, BNF means `Big-Name Fan' (someone famous or notorious).
Years ago a fan started handing out black-on-green BNF buttons at SF conventions; this confused the hacker contingent terribly. :boa: [IBM] n.
Any one of the fat cables that lurk under the floor in a {dinosaur pen}.
Possibly so called because they display a ferocious life of their own when you try to lay them straight and flat after they have been coiled for some time.
In-context synonym for {bboard}; sometimes used even for USENET newsgroups.
An electronic circuit board (compare {card}). :boat anchor: n.
Like {doorstop} but more severe; implies that the offending hardware is irreversibly dead or useless.
That was a working motherboard once.
One lightning strike later, instant boat anchor!
A person who just takes up space. :BOF: /B-O-F/ or /bof/ n.
Abbreviation for the phrase "Birds Of a Feather" (flocking together), an informal discussion group and/or bull session scheduled on a conference program.
It is not clear where or when this term originated, but it is now associated with the USENIX conferences for UNIX techies and was already established there by 1984.
It serves as a sort of canonical example of awfulness.
Looking at a program and seeing a dumb algorithm, one might say "Oh, I see, this program uses bogo-sort.
Compare {bogus}, {brute force}. :bogometer: /boh-gom'-*t-er/ n.
Compare the `wankometer' described in the {wank} entry; see also {bogus}. :bogon: /boh'gon/ [by analogy with proton/electron/neutron, but doubtless reinforced after 1980 by the similarity to Douglas Adams's `Vogons'; see the Bibliography in {appendix C}] n. 1.
The elementary particle of bogosity (see {quantum bogodynamics}).
For instance, "the Ethernet is emitting bogons again" means that it is broken or acting in an erratic or bogus fashion.
A query packet sent from a TCP/IP domain resolver to a root server, having the reply bit set instead of the query bit. 3.
Any bogus or incorrectly formed packet sent on a network.
By synecdoche, used to refer to any bogus thing, as in "I'd like to go to lunch with you but I've got to go to the weekly staff bogon".
A person who is bogus or who says bogus things.
This was historically the original usage, but has been overtaken by its derivative senses 1--4.
These are not so much live usages in themselves as examples of a live meta-usage: that is, it has become a standard joke or linguistic maneuver to "explain" otherwise mysterious circumstances by inventing nonce particle names.
And these imply nonce particle theories, with all their dignity or lack thereof (we might note *parenthetically* that this is a generalization from "(bogus particle) theories" to "bogus (particle theories)"!).
Perhaps such particles are the modern-day equivalents of trolls and wood-nymphs as standard starting-points around which to construct explanatory myths.
Of course, playing on an existing word (as in the `futon') yields additional flavor. Compare {magic smoke}. :bogon filter: /boh'gon fil'tr/ n.
Any device, software or hardware, that limits or suppresses the flow and/or emission of bogons. "Engineering hacked a bogon filter between the Cray and the VAXen, and now we're getting fewer dropped packets.
See also {bogosity}, {bogus}. :bogon flux: /boh'gon fluhks/ n.
A measure of a supposed field of {bogosity} emitted by a speaker, measured by a {bogometer}; as a speaker starts to wander into increasing bogosity a listener might say "Warning, warning, bogon flux is rising".
See {quantum bogodynamics}. :bogosity: /boh-go's*-tee/ n.
The degree to which something is {bogus}.
At CMU, bogosity is measured with a {bogometer}; in a seminar, when a speaker says something bogus, a listener might raise his hand and say "My bogometer just triggered".
The agreed-upon unit of bogosity is the microLenat /mi:k`roh-len'*t/ (uL).
The consensus is that this is the largest unit practical for everyday use.
The potential field generated by a {bogon flux}; see {quantum bogodynamics}.
See also {bogon flux}, {bogon filter}, {bogus}. Historical note: The microLenat was invented as an attack against noted computer scientist Doug Lenat by a {tenured graduate student}.
Doug had failed the student on an important exam for giving only "AI is bogus" as his answer to the questions.
The slur is generally considered unmerited, but it has become a running gag nevertheless.
Some of Doug's friends argue that *of course* a microLenat is bogus, since it is only one millionth of a Lenat.
Others have suggested that the unit should be redesignated after the grad student, as the microReid. :bogotify: /boh-go't*-fi:/ vt. To make or become bogus.
A program that has been changed so many times as to become completely disorganized has become bogotified.
If you tighten a nut too hard and strip the threads on the bolt, the bolt has become bogotified and you had better not use it any more.
This coinage led to the notional `autobogotiphobia' defined as `the fear of becoming bogotified'; but is not clear that the latter has ever been `live' jargon rather than a self-conscious joke in jargon about jargon.
See also {bogosity}, {bogus}. :bogue out: /bohg owt/ vi.
To become bogus, suddenly and unexpectedly.
His talk was relatively sane until somebody asked him a trick question; then he bogued out and did nothing but {flame} afterwards.
See also {bogosity}, {bogus}. :bogus: adj.
Your patches are bogus." 2.
OPCON is a bogus program.
That algorithm is bogus." 5.
You claim to have solved the halting problem for Turing Machines?
Stop writing those bogus sagas." Astrology is bogus.
It was spread to CMU and Yale by Michael Shamos, a migratory Princeton alumnus.
A glossary of bogus words was compiled at Yale when the word was first popularized (see {autobogotiphobia} under {bogotify}).
The word spread into hackerdom from CMU and MIT.
By the early 1980s it was also current in something like the hackish sense in West Coast teen slang, and it had gone mainstream by 1985.
A correspondent from Cambridge reports, by contrast, that these uses of `bogus' grate on British nerves; in Britain the word means, rather specifically, `counterfeit', as in "a bogus 10-pound note". :Bohr bug: /bohr buhg/ [from quantum physics] n.
A repeatable {bug}; one that manifests reliably under a possibly unknown but well-defined set of conditions.
Antonym of {heisenbug}; see also {mandelbug}, {schroedinbug}. :boink: /boynk/ [USENET: ascribed there to the TV series "Cheers" and "Moonlighting"] 1.
To have sex with; compare {bounce}, sense 3. (This is mainstream slang.) In Commonwealth hackish the variant `bonk' is more common.
Var of `bonk'; see {bonk/oif}. :bomb: 1. v.
General synonym for {crash} (sense 1) except that it is not used as a noun; esp. used of software or OS failures. "Don't run Empire with less than 32K stack, it'll bomb." 2. n.,v.
Atari ST and Macintosh equivalents of a UNIX `panic' or Amiga {guru} (sense 2), where icons of little black-powder bombs or mushroom clouds are displayed, indicating that the system has died.
Often abbreviated `B&D'; thus, one may speak of things "having the B&D nature".
See {{Pascal}}; oppose {languages of choice}. :bonk/oif: /bonk/, /oyf/ interj.
In the {MUD} community, it has become traditional to express pique or censure by `bonking' the offending person.
There is a convention that one should acknowledge a bonk by saying `oif!' and a myth to the effect that failing to do so upsets the cosmic bonk/oif balance, causing much trouble in the universe.
Some MUDs have implemented special commands for bonking and oifing.
See also {talk mode}, {posing}. :book titles:: There is a tradition in hackerdom of informally tagging important textbooks and standards documents with the dominant color of their covers or with some other conspicuous feature of the cover.
Many of these are described in this lexicon under their own entries.
To load and initialize the operating system on a machine.
This is sometimes used of human thought processes, as in the following exchange: "You've lost me.
One often hard-boots by performing a {power cycle}. Historical note: this term derives from `bootstrap loader', a short program that was read in from cards or paper tape, or toggled in from the front panel switches.
Thus, in successive steps, the computer `pulled itself up by its bootstraps' to a useful operating state.
Nowadays the bootstrap is usually found in ROM or EPROM, and reads the first stage in from a fixed location on the disk, called the `boot block'.
Hackish opposite of the techspeak term `top-down design'.
It is now received wisdom in most programming cultures that it is best to design from higher levels of abstraction down to lower, specifying sequences of action in increasing detail until you get to actual code.
1. [perhaps from the image of a thrown ball bouncing off a wall] An electronic mail message that is undeliverable and returns an error notification to the sender is said to `bounce'. See also {bounce message}.
2. [Stanford] To play volleyball. At the now-demolished {D.
Power Lab} building used by the Stanford AI Lab in the 1970s, there was a volleyball court on the front lawn.
To engage in sexual intercourse; prob. from the expression `bouncing the mattress', but influenced by Roo's psychosexually loaded "Try bouncing me, Tigger!" from the "Winnie-the-Pooh" books.
To casually reboot a system in order to clear up a transient problem.
Reported primarily among {VMS} users. 5. [IBM] To {power cycle} a peripheral in order to reset it. :bounce message: [UNIX] n.
Bounce messages can themselves fail, with occasionally ugly results; see {sorcerer's apprentice mode}. The terms `bounce mail' and `barfmail' are also common. :boustrophedon: [from a Greek word for turning like an ox while plowing] n.
An ancient method of writing using alternate left-to-right and right-to-left lines.
This term is actually philologists' techspeak and typesetter's jargon.
Erudite hackers use it for an optimization performed by some computer typesetting software (notably UNIX `troff(1)').
The adverbial form `boustrophedonically' is also found (hackers purely love constructions like this). :box: n.
2. [within IBM] Without qualification but within an SNA-using site, this refers specifically to an IBM front-end processor or FEP /F-E-P/.
An FEP is a small computer necessary to enable an IBM {mainframe} to communicate beyond the limits of the {dinosaur pen}.
Typically used in expressions like the cry that goes up when an SNA network goes down: "Looks like the {box} has fallen over." (See {fall over}.) See also {IBM}, {fear and loathing}, {fepped out}, {Blue Glue}. :boxed comments: n.
The sparest variant omits all but the comment delimiters themselves; the `box' is implied.
Oppose {winged comments}. :boxen: /bok'sn/ [by analogy with {VAXen}] pl.n.
Fanciful plural of {box} often encountered in the phrase `UNIX boxen', used to describe commodity {{UNIX}} hardware.
The connotation is that any two UNIX boxen are interchangeable. :boxology: /bok-sol'*-jee/ n.
This term implies a more restricted domain, that of box-and-arrow drawings. "His report has a lot of boxology in it.
Compare {macrology}. :bozotic: /boh-zoh'tik/ or /boh-zo'tik/ [from the name of a TV clown even more losing than Ronald McDonald] adj.
Resembling or having the quality of a bozo; that is, clownish, ludicrously wrong, unintentionally humorous.
Note that the noun `bozo' occurs in slang, but the mainstream adjectival form would be `bozo-like' or (in New England) `bozoish'. :BQS: /B-Q-S/ adj.
Syn. {Berkeley Quality Software}. :brain dump: n.
The act of telling someone everything one knows about a particular topic or project.
Typically used when someone is going to let a new party maintain a piece of code.
Conceptually analogous to an operating system {core dump} in that it saves a lot of useful {state} before an exit.
You'll have to give me a brain dump on FOOBAR before you start your new job at HackerCorp.
See {core dump} (sense 4).
At Sun, this is also known as `TOI' (transfer of information). :brain fart: n.
The actual result of a {braino}, as opposed to the mental glitch which is the braino itself.
E.g. typing `dir' on a UNIX box after a session with DOS. :brain-damaged: 1. [generalization of `Honeywell Brain Damage' (HBD), a theoretical disease invented to explain certain utter cretinisms in Honeywell {{Multics}}] adj.
There is an implication that the person responsible must have suffered brain damage, because he should have known better.
Calling something brain-damaged is really bad; it also implies it is unusable, and that its failure to work is due to poor design rather than some accident.
Only six monocase characters per file name?
2. [esp. in the Mac world] May refer to free demonstration software that has been deliberately crippled in some way so as not to compete with the commercial product it is intended to sell.
It tends to imply terminal design failure rather than malfunction or simple stupidity.
This comm program doesn't know how to send a break --- how brain-dead!" :braino: /bray'no/ n.
See also {brain fart}. :branch to Fishkill: [IBM: from the location of one of the corporation's facilities] n.
Any unexpected jump in a program that produces catastrophic or just plain weird results.
See {jump off into never-never land}, {hyperspace}. :brand brand brand: n.
Humorous catch-phrase from {BartleMUD}s, in which players were described carrying a list of objects, the most common of which would usually be a brand.
Often used as a joke in {talk mode} as in "Fred the wizard is here, carrying brand ruby brand brand brand kettle broadsword flamethrower".
A brand is a torch, of course; one burns up a lot of those exploring dungeons. Prob. influenced by the famous Monty Python "Spam" skit. :bread crumbs: n.
Debugging statements inserted into a program that emit output or log indicators of the program's {state} to a file so you can see where it dies, or pin down the cause of surprising behavior.
Your latest patch to the editor broke the paragraph commands.
2. v. (of a program) To stop temporarily, so that it may debugged.
The place where it stops is a `breakpoint'.
To send an RS-232 break (two character widths of line high) over a serial comm line.
To strike whatever key currently causes the tty driver to send SIGINT to the current process.
Normally, break (sense 3) or delete does this.
That is, for a new language called, hypothetically, FOOGOL, one has reached break-even when one can write a demonstration compiler for FOOGOL in FOOGOL, discard the original implementation language, and thereafter use older versions of FOOGOL to develop newer ones.
This is an important milestone; see {MFTL}. :breath-of-life packet: [XEROX PARC] n.
An Ethernet packet that contained bootstrap (see {boot}) code, periodically sent out from a working computer to infuse the `breath of life' into any computer on the network that had happened to crash.
Machines depending on such packets have sufficient hardware or firmware code to wait for (or request) such a packet during the reboot process. See also {dickless workstation}. :breedle: n.
See {feep}. :bring X to its knees: v.
To present a machine, operating system, piece of software, or algorithm with a load so extreme or {pathological} that it grinds to a halt.
To bring a MicroVAX to its knees, try twenty users running {vi} --- or four running {EMACS}.
Said of software that is functional but easily broken by changes in operating environment or configuration, or by any minor tweak to the software itself.
Also, any system that responds inappropriately and disastrously to expected external stimuli; e.g., a file system that is usually totally scrambled by a power failure is said to be brittle.
This term is often used to describe the results of a research effort that were never intended to be robust, but it can be applied to commercially developed software, which displays the quality far more often than it ought to.
Oppose {robust}. :broadcast storm: n.
An incorrect packet broadcast on a network that causes most hosts to respond all at once, typically with wrong answers that start the process over again.
See {network meltdown}. :broken: adj.
Not working properly (of programs).
Behaving strangely; especially (when used of people) exhibiting extreme depression. :broken arrow: [IBM] n.
The error code displayed on line 25 of a 3270 terminal (or a PC emulating a 3270) for various kinds of protocol violations and "unexpected" error conditions (including connection to a {down} computer).
On a PC, simulated with `->/_', with the two center characters overstruck.
Either of the characters `<' and `>', when used as paired enclosing delimiters.
This word originated as a contraction of the phrase `broken bracket', that is, a bracket that is bent in the middle. (At MIT, and apparently in the {Real World} as well, these are usually called {angle brackets}.) :Brooks's Law: prov.
The myth in question has been most tersely expressed as "Programmer time is fungible" and Brooks established conclusively that it is not.
Hackers have never forgotten his advice; too often, {management} does.
See also {creationism}, {second-system effect}. :BRS: /B-R-S/ n.
This abbreviation is fairly common on-line. :brute force: adj.
In what order should he or she visit them in order to minimize the distance travelled?
For very small N it works well, but it rapidly becomes absurdly inefficient when N increases (for N = 15, there are already 1,307,674,368,000 possible routes to consider, and for N = 1000 --- well, see {bignum}).
Additionally, a more intelligent algorithm may imply more long-term complexity cost and bug-chasing than are justified by the speed improvement. Ken Thompson, co-inventor of UNIX, is reported to have uttered the epigram "When in doubt, use brute force".
He probably intended this as a {ha ha only serious}, but the original UNIX kernel's preference for simple, robust, and portable algorithms over {brittle} `smart' ones does seem to have been a significant factor in the success of that OS.
Like so many other tradeoffs in software design, the choice between brute force and complex, finely-tuned cleverness is often a difficult one that requires both engineering savvy and delicate esthetic judgment. :brute force and ignorance: n.
A popular design technique at many software houses --- {brute force} coding unrelieved by any knowledge of how problems have been previously solved in elegant ways.
Dogmatic adherence to design methodologies tends to encourage it.
Characteristic of early {larval stage} programming; unfortunately, many never outgrow it.
Often abbreviated BFI: "Gak, they used a bubble sort!
The BSD versions (4.1, 4.2, and 4.3) and the commercial versions derived from them (SunOS, ULTRIX, and Mt.
Xinu) held the technical lead in the UNIX world until AT&T's successful standardization efforts after about 1986, and are still widely popular.
See {{UNIX}}, {USG UNIX}. :BUAF: // [abbreviation, from the alt.fan.warlord] n.
Big Ugly ASCII Font --- a special form of {ASCII art}.
Various programs exist for rendering text strings into block, bloob, and pseudo-script fonts in cells between four and six character cells on a side; this is smaller than the letters generated by older {banner} (sense 2) programs.
These are sometimes used to render one's name in a {sig block}, and are critically referred to as `BUAF's.
See {warlording}. :BUAG: // [abbreviation, from the alt.fan.warlord] n.
Pejorative term for ugly {ASCII ART}, especially as found in {sig block}s.
For some reason, mutations of the head of Bart Simpson are particularly common in the least imaginative {sig block}s.
See {warlording}. :bubble sort: n.
Because it is not very good relative to other methods and is the one typically stumbled on by {na"ive} and untutored programmers, hackers consider it the {canonical} example of a na"ive algorithm.
The canonical example of a really *bad* algorithm is {bogo-sort}.
A bubble sort might be used out of ignorance, but any use of bogo-sort could issue only from brain damage or willful perversity. :bucky bits: /buh'kee bits/ n.
The bits produced by the CONTROL and META shift keys on a SAIL keyboard (octal 200 and 400 respectively), resulting in a 9-bit keyboard character set.
The MIT AI TV (Knight) keyboards extended this with TOP and separate left and right CONTROL and META keys, resulting in a 12-bit character set; later, LISP Machines added such keys as SUPER, HYPER, and GREEK (see {space-cadet keyboard}).
Actually, `Bucky' was Niklaus Wirth's nickname when *he* was at Stanford; he first suggested the idea of an EDIT key to set the 8th bit of an otherwise 7-bit ASCII character.
This was used in a number of editors written at Stanford or in its environs (TV-EDIT and NLS being the best-known).
The term spread to MIT and CMU early and is now in general use.
See {double bucky}, {quadruple bucky}. :buffer overflow: n.
What happens when you try to stuff more data into a buffer (holding area) than it can handle.
For example, in a text-processing tool that {crunch}es a line at a time, a short line buffer can result in {lossage} as input from a long line overflows the buffer and trashes data beyond it.
Good defensive programming would check for overflow on each character and stop accepting data when the buffer is full up.
The term is used of and by humans in a metaphorical sense.
What time did I agree to meet you?
My buffer must have overflowed.
Or "If I answer that phone my buffer is going to overflow.
See also {spam}, {overrun screw}. :bug: n.
An unwanted and unintended property of a program or piece of hardware, esp. one that causes it to malfunction.
Examples: "There's a bug in the editor: it writes things out backwards.
The system crashed because of a hardware bug.
For many years the logbook associated with the incident and the actual bug in question (a moth) sat in a display case at the Naval Surface Warfare Center.
First actual case of bug being found".
This wording seems to establish that the term was already in use at the time in its current specific sense --- and Hopper herself reports that the term `bug' was regularly applied to problems in radar electronics during WWII.
Indeed, the use of `bug' to mean an industrial defect was already established in Thomas Edison's time, and `bug' in the sense of an disruptive event goes back to Shakespeare!
I don't see any ants in it." "That's the bug." [There has been a widespread myth that the original bug was moved to the Smithsonian, and an earlier version of this entry so asserted.
A correspondent who thought to check discovered that the bug was not there.
It was moved to the Smithsonian in mid-1991.
Thus, the process of investigating the original-computer-bug bug fixed it in an entirely unexpected way, by making the myth true! --- ESR] [1992 update: the plot thickens!
A usually reliable source reports having seen The Bug at the Smithsonian in 1978.
I am unable to reconcile the conflicting histories I have been offered, and merely report this fact here. --- ESR.] :bug-compatible: adj.
Said of a design or revision that has been badly compromised by a requirement to be compatible with {fossil}s or {misfeature}s in other programs or (esp.) previous releases of itself.
MS-DOS 2.0 used \ as a path separator to be bug-compatible with some cretin's choice of / as an option character in 1.0." :bug-for-bug compatible: n.
Same as {bug-compatible}, with the additional implication that much tedious effort went into ensuring that each (known) bug was replicated. :buglix: /buhg'liks/ n.
Pejorative term referring to DEC's ULTRIX operating system in its earlier *severely* buggy versions. Still used to describe ULTRIX, but without venom.
Compare {AIDX}, {HP-SUX}, {Nominal Semidestructor}, {Telerat}, {sun-stools}. :bulletproof: adj.
Used of an algorithm or implementation considered extremely {robust}; lossage-resistant; capable of correctly recovering from any imaginable exception condition.
This is a rare and valued quality.
Syn. {armor-plated}. :bum: 1. vt. To make highly efficient, either in time or space, often at the expense of clarity.
I managed to bum three more instructions out of that code.
I spent half the night bumming the interrupt code.
In {elder days}, John McCarthy (inventor of {LISP}) used to compare some efficiency-obsessed hackers among his students to "ski bums"; thus, optimization became "program bumming", and eventually just "bumming".
To squeeze out excess; to remove something in order to improve whatever it was removed from (without changing function; this distinguishes the process from a {featurectomy}).
A small change to an algorithm, program, or hardware device to make it more efficient.
This hardware bum makes the jump instruction faster.
Usage: now uncommon, largely superseded by v. {tune} (and n. {tweak}, {hack}), though none of these exactly capture sense 2.
All these uses are rare in Commonwealth hackish, because in the parent dialects of English `bum' is a rude synonym for `buttocks'. :bump: vt. Synonym for increment.
Has the same meaning as C's ++ operator.
Used esp. of counter variables, pointers, and index dummies in `for', `while', and `do-while' loops. :burble: [from Lewis Carroll's "Jabberwocky"] v.
Like {flame}, but connotes that the source is truly clueless and ineffectual (mere flamers can be competent).
A term of deep contempt. "There's some guy on the phone burbling about how he got a DISK FULL error and it's all our comm software's fault." :buried treasure: n.
A surprising piece of code found in some program.
While usually not wrong, it tends to vary from {crufty} to {bletcherous}, and has lain undiscovered only because it was functionally correct, however horrible it is.
Used sarcastically, because what is found is anything *but* treasure.
Buried treasure almost always needs to be dug up and removed.
I just found that the scheduler sorts its queue using {bubble sort}! Buried treasure!" :burn-in period: n.
A factory test designed to catch systems with {marginal} components before they get out the door; the theory is that burn-in will protect customers by outwaiting the steepest part of the {bathtub curve} (see {infant mortality}).
A period of indeterminate length in which a person using a computer is so intensely involved in his project that he forgets basic needs such as food, drink, sleep, etc. Warning: Excessive burn-in can lead to burn-out.
See {hack mode}, {larval stage}. :burst page: n.
Syn. {banner}, sense 1. :busy-wait: vi.
Used of human behavior, conveys that the subject is busy waiting for someone or something, intends to move instantly as soon as it shows up, and thus cannot do anything else at the moment.
This is a wasteful technique, best avoided on time-sharing systems where a busy-waiting program may {hog} the processor. :buzz: vi.
Of a program, to run with no indication of progress and perhaps without guarantee of ever finishing; esp. said of programs thought to be executing tight loops of code.
A program that is buzzing appears to be {catatonic}, but you never get out of catatonia, while a buzzing loop may eventually end of its own accord.
The program buzzes for about 10 seconds trying to sort all the names into order.
See {spin}; see also {grovel}. 2. [ETA Systems] To test a wire or printed circuit trace for continuity by applying an AC rather than DC signal.
Some wire faults will pass DC tests but fail a buzz test.
Usually roughly proportional to {bogosity}.
See {TLA}. :by hand: adv.
Said of an operation (especially a repetitive, trivial, and/or tedious one) that ought to be performed automatically by the computer, but which a hacker instead has to step tediously through.
My mailer doesn't have a command to include the text of the message I'm replying to, so I have to do it by hand.
Compare {eyeball search}. :byte:: /bi:t/ [techspeak] n.
A unit of memory or data equal to the amount used to represent one character; on modern architectures this is usually 8 bits, but may be 9 on 36-bit machines.
Some older architectures used `byte' for quantities of 6 or 7 bits, and the PDP-10 supported `bytes' that were actually bitfields of 1 to 36 bits!
The move to an 8-bit byte happened in late 1956, and this size was later adopted and promulgated as a standard by the System/360.
The term `byte' was coined by mutating the word `bite' so it would not be accidentally misspelled as {bit}.
See also {nybble}. :bytesexual: /bi:t`sek'shu-*l/ adj.
Said of hardware, denotes willingness to compute or pass data in either {big-endian} or {little-endian} format (depending, presumably, on a {mode bit} somewhere).
A way of expressing mock-rude disagreement, usually immediately following an included quote from another poster.
The less abbreviated "*Bzzzzt*, wrong, but thank you for playing" is also common; capitalization and emphasis of the buzzer sound varies. = C = ===== :C: n.
The third letter of the English alphabet.
The name of a programming language designed by Dennis Ritchie during the early 1970s and immediately used to reimplement {{UNIX}}; so called because many features derived from an earlier compiler named `B' in commemoration of *its* parent, BCPL.
Before Bjarne Stroustrup settled the question by designing C++, there was a humorous debate over whether C's successor should be named `D' or `P'.
The tendency of the undisciplined C programmer to set arbitrary but supposedly generous static limits on table sizes (defined, if you're lucky, by constants in header files) rather than taking the trouble to do proper dynamic storage allocation.
This gives the programmer the comfortable feeling of having done his bit to satisfy the user's (unreasonable) demands, and often affords the user multiple opportunities to explore the marvelous consequences of {fandango on core}.
In severe cases of the disease, the programmer cannot comprehend why each fix of this kind seems only to further disgruntle the user. :calculator: [Cambridge] n.
Syn. for {bitty box}. :can: vt. To abort a job on a time-sharing system.
Used esp. when the person doing the deed is an operator, as in "canned from the {{console}}".
Frequently used in an imperative sense, as in "Can that print job, the LPT just popped a sprocket!
Often, such a condition being true indicates data corruption or a faulty algorithm; it is almost always handled by emitting a fatal error message and terminating or crashing, since there is little else that can be done.
This is also often the text emitted if the `impossible' error actually happens!
A programming-language grammar that is mostly {syntactic sugar}; the term is also a play on `candygram'. {COBOL}, Apple's Hypertalk language, and a lot of the so-called `4GL' database languages are like this.
The last attempt is a half-hearted "Candygram!" When the door is opened, a shark bursts in and chomps the poor occupant.
There is a moral here for those attracted to candygrammars.
Note that, in many circles, pretty much the same ones who remember Monty Python sketches, all it takes is the word "Candygram!", suitably timed, to get people rolling on the floor.) --- GLS] :canonical: [historically, `according to religious law'] adj.
The usual or standard state or manner of something.
This word has a somewhat more technical meaning in mathematics.
Usually there are fixed rules you can use to decide whether something is in canonical form.
Non-technical academics do not use the adjective `canonical' in any of the senses defined above with any regularity; they do however use the nouns `canon' and `canonicity' (not *canonicalness or *canonicality).
Reeds were used for measurement, and in Latin and later Greek the word `canon' meant a rule or a standard.
The establishment of a canon of scriptures within Christianity was meant to define a standard or a rule for the religion.
The above non-techspeak academic usages stem from this instance of a defined and accepted body of work. Alongside this usage was the promulgation of `canons' (`rules') for the government of the Catholic Church.
The techspeak usages ("according to religious law") derive from this use of the Latin `canon'. Hackers invest this term with a playfulness that makes an ironic contrast with its historical meaning.
A true story: One Bob Sjoberg, new at the MIT AI Lab, expressed some annoyance at the use of jargon.
We've finally got you talking jargon too!
Stallman: "What did he say?
An electronic printed-circuit board (see also {tall card}, {short card}.
Syn. {{punched card}}. :card walloper: n.
An EDP programmer who grinds out batch programs that do stupid things like print people's paychecks.
See also {{punched card}}, {eighty-column mind}. :careware: /keir'weir/ n. {Shareware} for which either the author suggests that some payment be made to a nominated charity or a levy directed to charity is included on top of the distribution charge.
Syn. {charityware}; compare {crippleware}, sense 2. :cargo cult programming: n.
A style of (incompetent) programming dominated by ritual inclusion of code or program structures that serve no real purpose.
The practices of these cults center on building elaborate mockups of airplanes and military style landing strips in the hope of bringing the return of the god-like airplanes that brought such marvelous cargo during the war.
Hackish usage probably derives from Richard Feynman's characterization of certain practices as "cargo cult science" in his book `Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman' (W.
Norton & Co, New York 1985, ISBN 0-393-01921-7). :cascade: n.
A huge volume of spurious error-message output produced by a compiler with poor error recovery.
This can happen when one initial error throws the parser out of synch so that much of the remaining program text is interpreted as garbaged or ill-formed.
The addition of a new {feature} to an existing system by selecting the code from an existing feature and pasting it in with minor changes.
Common in telephony circles because most operations in a telephone switch are selected using `case' statements.
Yet another synonym for `broken' or `down'.
Usually connotes a major failure.
By extension, to dump large amounts of data at an unprepared target or with no intention of browsing it carefully.
This because it is more often used to {blast} a file to standard output than to concatenate two files.
The name `cat' for the former operation is just as unintuitive as, say, LISP's {cdr}. Of such oppositions are {holy wars} made.... :catatonic: adj.
Describes a condition of suspended animation in which something is so {wedged} or {hung} that it makes no response.
Compare {buzz}. :cd tilde: /see-dee til-d*/ vi.
From the UNIX C-shell and Korn-shell command `cd ~', which takes one `$HOME'.
In the form `cdr down', to trace down a list of elements: "Shall we cdr down the agenda?
See also {loop through}. Historical note: The instruction format of the IBM 7090 that hosted the original LISP implementation featured two 15-bit fields called the `address' and `decrement' parts.
The term `cdr' was originally `Contents of Decrement part of Register'.
Similarly, `car' stood for `Contents of Address part of Register'. The cdr and car operations have since become bases for formation of compound metaphors in non-LISP contexts.
GLS recalls, for example, a programming project in which strings were represented as linked lists; the get-character and skip-character operations were of course called CHAR and CHDR. :chad: /chad/ n.
The perforated edge strips on printer paper, after they have been separated from the printed portion.
Also called {selvage} and {perf}.
To hand off execution to a child or successor without going through the {OS} command interpreter that invoked it.
The state of the parent program is lost and there is no returning to it.
Though this facility used to be common on memory-limited micros and is still widely supported for backward compatibility, the jargon usage is semi-obsolescent; in particular, most UNIX programmers will think of this as an {exec}.
Oppose the more modern {subshell}.
A series of linked data areas within an operating system or application. `Chain rattling' is the process of repeatedly running through the linked data areas searching for one which is of interest to the executing program.
The implication is that there is a very large number of links on the chain. :channel: [IRC] n.
The basic unit of discussion on {IRC}.
Once one joins a channel, everything one types is read by others on that channel.
Channels can either be named with numbers or with strings that begin with a `#' sign, and can have topic descriptions (which are generally irrelevant to the actual subject of discussion). Some notable channels are `#initgame', `#hottub', and `#report'.
To rapidly switch channels on {IRC}, or GEnie chat board, just as a social butterfly might hop from one group to another at a party.
This may derive from the TV watcher's idiom `channel surfing'. :channel op: /chan'l op/ [IRC] n.
Someone who is endowed with privileges on a particular {IRC} channel; commonly abbreviated `chanop' or `CHOP'.
These privileges include the right to {kick} users, to change various status bits, and to make others into CHOPs. :chanop: /chan'-op/ [IRC] n.
See {channel op}. :char: /keir/ or /char/; rarely, /kar/ n.
Esp. used by C programmers, as `char' is C's typename for character data. :charityware: /char'it-ee-weir`/ n.
Syn. {careware}. :chase pointers: 1. vi.
To go through multiple levels of indirection, as in traversing a linked list or graph structure. Used esp. by programmers in C, where explicit pointers are a very common data type.
This is techspeak, but it remains jargon when used of human networks.
Bob said you could tell me who to talk to about....
See {dangling pointer} and {snap}.
2. [Cambridge] `pointer chase' or `pointer hunt': The process of going through a dump (interactively or on a large piece of paper printed with hex {runes}) following dynamic data-structures.
Used only in a debugging context. :check: n.
A hardware-detected error condition, most commonly used to refer to actual hardware failures rather than software-induced traps.
E.g., a `parity check' is the result of a hardware-detected parity error.
Recorded here because it's often humorously extended to non-technical problems.
See {laser chicken}. :Chernobyl packet: /cher-noh'b*l pak'*t/ n.
A network packet that induces {network meltdown} (the result of a {broadcast storm}), in memory of the April 1986 nuclear accident at Chernobyl in Ukraine.
The typical scenario involves an IP Ethernet datagram that passes through a gateway with both source and destination Ether and IP address set as the respective broadcast addresses for the subnetworks being gated between.
Compare {Christmas tree packet}. :chicken head: [Commodore] n.
The Commodore Business Machines logo, which strongly resembles a poultry part.
Rendered in ASCII as `C='.
With the arguable exception of the Amiga (see {amoeba}), Commodore's machines are notoriously crocky little {bitty box}es (see also {PETSCII}).
Thus, this usage may owe something to Philip K.
Dick's novel `Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?' (the basis for the movie `Blade Runner'), in which a `chickenhead' is a mutant with below-average intelligence. :chiclet keyboard: n.
Vendors unanimously liked these because they were cheap, and a lot of early portable and laptop products got launched using them.
Customers rejected the idea with almost equal unanimity, and chiclets are not often seen on anything larger than a digital watch any more. :chine nual: /sheen'yu-*l/ [MIT] n.,obs.
The Lisp Machine Manual, so called because the title was wrapped around the cover so only those letters showed on the front. :Chinese Army technique: n.
Syn. {Mongolian Hordes technique}. :choke: v.
To reject input, often ungracefully.
NULs make System V's `lpr(1)' choke.
I tried building an {EMACS} binary to use {X}, but `cpp(1)' choked on all those `#define's." See {barf}, {gag}, {vi}.
2. [MIT] More generally, to fail at any endeavor, but with some flair or bravado; the popular definition is "to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory." :chomp: vi.
To {lose}; specifically, to chew on something of which more was bitten off than one can.
Probably related to gnashing of teeth.
A hand gesture commonly accompanies this.
To perform it, hold the four fingers together and place the thumb against their tips.
Now open and close your hand rapidly to suggest a biting action (much like what Pac-Man does in the classic video game, though this pantomime seems to predate that).
The gesture alone means `chomp chomp' (see "{Verb Doubling}" in the "{Jargon Construction}" section of the Prependices).
The hand may be pointed at the object of complaint, and for real emphasis you can use both hands at once.
Doing this to a person is equivalent to saying "You chomper!
If you point the gesture at yourself, it is a humble but humorous admission of some failure.
You might do this if someone told you that a program you had written had failed in some surprising way and you felt dumb for not having anticipated it. :chomper: n.
Someone or something that is chomping; a loser.
See {loser}, {bagbiter}, {chomp}. :CHOP: /chop/ [IRC] n.
See {channel op}. :Christmas tree: n.
A kind of RS-232 line tester or breakout box featuring rows of blinking red and green LEDs suggestive of Christmas lights. :Christmas tree packet: n.
A packet with every single option set for whatever protocol is in use.
See {kamikaze packet}, {Chernobyl packet}. (The term doubtless derives from a fanciful image of each little option bit being represented by a different-colored light bulb, all turned on.) :chrome: [from automotive slang via wargaming] n.
Showy features added to attract users but contributing little or nothing to the power of a system.
The 3D icons in Motif are just chrome, but they certainly are *pretty* chrome!
Distinguished from {bells and whistles} by the fact that the latter are usually added to gratify developers' own desires for featurefulness. Often used as a term of contempt. :chug: vi.
To run slowly; to {grind} or {grovel}.
The disk is chugging like crazy." :Church of the SubGenius: n.
A mutant offshoot of {Discordianism} launched in 1981 as a spoof of fundamentalist Christianity by the `Reverend' Ivan Stang, a brilliant satirist with a gift for promotion.
Popular among hackers as a rich source of bizarre imagery and references such as "Bob" the divine drilling-equipment salesman, the Benevolent Space Xists, and the Stark Fist of Removal.
Much SubGenius theory is concerned with the acquisition of the mystical substance or quality of `slack'. :Cinderella Book: [CMU] n. `Introduction to Automata Theory, Languages, and Computation', by John Hopcroft and Jeffrey Ullman, (Addison-Wesley, 1979).
So called because the cover depicts a girl (putatively Cinderella) sitting in front of a Rube Goldberg device and holding a rope coming out of it.
The back cover depicts the girl with the device in shambles after she has pulled on the rope. See also {{book titles}}. :CI$: // n.
Hackerism for `CIS', CompuServe Information Service. The dollar sign refers to CompuServe's rather steep line charges. Often used in {sig block}s just before a CompuServe address. Syn. {Compu$erve}. :Classic C: /klas'ik C/ [a play on `Coke Classic'] n.
The C programming language as defined in the first edition of {K&R}, with some small additions.
It is also known as `K&R C'.
The name came into use while C was being standardized by the ANSI X3J11 committee.
This is sometimes applied elsewhere: thus, `X Classic', where X = Star Trek (referring to the original TV series) or X = PC (referring to IBM's ISA-bus machines as opposed to the PS/2 series).
This construction is especially used of product series in which the newer versions are considered serious losers relative to the older ones. :clean: 1. adj.
The antonym is `grungy' or {crufty}.
To remove unneeded or undesired files in a effort to reduce clutter: "I'm cleaning up my account.
I cleaned up the garbage and now have 100 Meg free on that partition." :CLM: /C-L-M/ [Sun: `Career Limiting Move'] 1. n.
An action endangering one's future prospects of getting plum projects and raises, and possibly one's job: "His Halloween costume was a parody of his manager.
He won the prize for `best CLM'." 2. adj.
Denotes extreme severity of a bug, discovered by a customer and obviously missed earlier because of poor testing: "That's a CLM bug!" :clobber: vt. To overwrite, usually unintentionally: "I walked off the end of the array and clobbered the stack.
Compare {mung}, {scribble}, {trash}, and {smash the stack}. :clocks: n.
An exact duplicate: "Our product is a clone of their product.
Implies a legal reimplementation from documentation or by reverse-engineering.
A shoddy, spurious copy: "Their product is a clone of our product.
A blatant ripoff, most likely violating copyright, patent, or trade secret protections: "Your product is a clone of my product.
This use implies legal action is pending.
A `PC clone'; a PC-BUS/ISA or EISA-compatible 80x86-based microcomputer (this use is sometimes spelled `klone' or `PClone').
These invariably have much more bang for the buck than the IBM archetypes they resemble. 5.
In the construction `UNIX clone': An OS designed to deliver a UNIX-lookalike environment without UNIX license fees, or with additional `mission-critical' features such as support for real-time programming.
See {feature key}. :clustergeeking: /kluh'st*r-gee`king/ [CMU] n.
Hackers believe that all COBOL programmers are {suit}s or {code grinder}s, and no self-respecting hacker will ever admit to having learned the language.
Its very name is seldom uttered without ritual expressions of disgust or horror.
See also {fear and loathing}, {software rot}. :COBOL fingers: /koh'bol fing'grz/ n.
Reported from Sweden, a (hypothetical) disease one might get from coding in COBOL.
The language requires code verbose beyond all reason; thus it is alleged that programming too much in COBOL causes one's fingers to wear down to stubs by the endless typing.
I refuse to type in all that source code again; it would give me COBOL fingers!" :code grinder: n.
A {suit}-wearing minion of the sort hired in legion strength by banks and insurance companies to implement payroll packages in RPG and other such unspeakable horrors.
In its native habitat, the code grinder often removes the suit jacket to reveal an underplumage consisting of button-down shirt (starch optional) and a tie.
In times of dire stress, the sleeves (if long) may be rolled up and the tie loosened about half an inch.
The {code grinder}'s milieu is about as far from hackerdom as one can get and still touch a computer; the term connotes pity.
May be used either seriously, to underline a claim that a particular style violation is dangerous, or ironically, to suggest that the practice under discussion is condemned mainly by anal-retentive {weenie}s.
Dike out that goto or the code police will get you!
The ironic usage is perhaps more common. :codewalker: n.
A program component that traverses other programs for a living.
Compilers have codewalkers in their front ends; so do cross-reference generators and some database front ends.
Other utility programs that try to do too much with source code may turn into codewalkers.
As in "This new `vgrind' feature would require a codewalker to implement." :coefficient of X: n.
Hackish speech makes rather heavy use of pseudo-mathematical metaphors.
Four particularly important ones involve the terms `coefficient', `factor', `index', and `quotient'.
The canonical example is {fudge factor}.
Any very unusual character, particularly one you can't type because it it isn't on your keyboard.
MIT people used to complain about the `control-meta-cokebottle' commands at SAIL, and SAIL people complained right back about the `{altmode}-altmode-cokebottle' commands at MIT.
After the demise of the {space-cadet keyboard}, `cokebottle' faded away as serious usage, but was often invoked humorously to describe an (unspecified) weird or non-intuitive keystroke command.
It may be due for a second inning, however.
The OSF/Motif window manager, `mwm(1)', has a reserved keystroke for switching to the default set of keybindings and behavior.
This keystroke is (believe it or not) `control-meta-bang' (see {bang}).
Since the exclamation point looks a lot like an upside down Coke bottle, Motif hackers have begun referring to this keystroke as `cokebottle'.
See also {quadruple bucky}. :cold boot: n.
See {boot}. :COME FROM: n.
Clark's "A Linguistic Contribution to GOTO-less programming", which appeared in a 1973 {Datamation} issue (and was reprinted in the April 1984 issue of `Communications of the ACM').
This parodied the then-raging `structured programming' {holy wars} (see {considered harmful}).
Mythically, some variants are the `assigned COME FROM' and the `computed COME FROM' (parodying some nasty control constructs in FORTRAN and some extended BASICs).
Of course, multi-tasking (or non-determinism) could be implemented by having more than one `COME FROM' statement coming from the same label. In some ways the FORTRAN `DO' looks like a `COME FROM' statement.
After all, control will eventually pass to the following statement.
The implementation of the general form was left to Univac FORTRAN, ca. 1975 (though a roughly similar feature existed on the IBM 7040 ten years earlier).
The statement `AT 100' would perform a `COME FROM 100'.
It was intended strictly as a debugging aid, with dire consequences promised to anyone so deranged as to use it in production code.
Syn. {feature key}. :comment out: vt. To surround a section of code with comment delimiters or to prefix every line in the section with a comment marker; this prevents it from being compiled or interpreted.
Compare {condition out}, usually the preferred technique in languages (such as {C}) that make it possible. :Commonwealth Hackish:: n.
Hacker jargon as spoken outside the U.S., esp. in the British Commonwealth.
It is reported that Commonwealth speakers are more likely to pronounce truncations like `char' and `soc', etc., as spelled (/char/, /sok/), as opposed to American /keir/ and /sohsh/.
Dots in {newsgroup} names tend to be pronounced more often (so soc.wibble is /sok dot wib'l/ rather than /sohsh wib'l/).
The prefix {meta} may be pronounced /mee't*/; similarly, Greek letter beta is often /bee't*/, zeta is often /zee't*/, and so forth.
Finally, note that the American terms `parens', `brackets', and `braces' for (), [], and {} are uncommon; Commonwealth hackish prefers `brackets', `square brackets', and `curly brackets'.
Of a design, describes the valuable property that it can all be apprehended at once in one's head.
Designs become non-compact through accreting {feature}s and {cruft} that don't merge cleanly into the overall design scheme (thus, some fans of {Classic C} maintain that ANSI C is no longer compact). :compiler jock: n.
See {jock} (sense 2). :compress: [UNIX] vt. When used without a qualifier, generally refers to {crunch}ing of a file using a particular C implementation of compression by James A.
Woods et al. and widely circulated via {USENET}; use of {crunch} itself in this sense is rare among UNIX hackers.
Specifically, compress is built around the Lempel-Ziv-Welch algorithm as described in "A Technique for High Performance Data Compression", Terry A.
Welch, `IEEE Computer', vol. 17, no. 6 (June 1984), pp. 8-19. :Compu$erve: n.
The synonyms CompuSpend and Compu$pend are also reported. :computer confetti: n.
Though this term is common, this use of punched-card chad is not a good idea, as the pieces are stiff and have sharp corners that could injure the eyes.
GLS reports that he once attended a wedding at MIT during which he and a few other guests enthusiastically threw chad instead of rice.
The groom later grumbled that he and his bride had spent most of the evening trying to get the stuff out of their hair. :computer geek: n.
One who eats (computer) bugs for a living.
One who fulfills all the dreariest negative stereotypes about hackers: an asocial, malodorous, pasty-faced monomaniac with all the personality of a cheese grater.
Cannot be used by outsiders without implied insult to all hackers; compare black-on-black usage of `nigger'.
A computer geek may be either a fundamentally clueless individual or a proto-hacker in {larval stage}.
Also called `turbo nerd', `turbo geek'.
See also {propeller head}, {clustergeeking}, {geek out}, {wannabee}, {terminal junkie}, {spod}, {weenie}. :computron: /kom'pyoo-tron`/ n.
A notional unit of computing power combining instruction speed and storage capacity, dimensioned roughly in instructions-per-second times megabytes-of-main-store times megabytes-of-mass-storage.
That machine can't run GNU EMACS, it doesn't have enough computrons!
This usage is usually found in metaphors that treat computing power as a fungible commodity good, like a crop yield or diesel horsepower.
See {bitty box}, {Get a real computer!}, {toy}, {crank}. 2.
A mythical subatomic particle that bears the unit quantity of computation or information, in much the same way that an electron bears one unit of electric charge (see also {bogon}).
An elaborate pseudo-scientific theory of computrons has been developed based on the physical fact that the molecules in a solid object move more rapidly as it is heated.
Conversely, it should be possible to cool down an object by placing it in the path of a computron beam.
The {canonical} examples are `#if 0' (or `#ifdef notdef', though some find this {bletcherous}) and `#endif' in C.
Compare {comment out}. :condom: n.
The protective plastic bag that accompanies 3.5-inch microfloppy diskettes.
Rarely, also used of (paper) disk envelopes.
The protective cladding on a {light pipe}. :confuser: n.
Common soundalike slang for `computer'.
Usually encountered in compounds such as `confuser room', `personal confuser', `confuser guru'.
Usage: silly. :connector conspiracy: [probably came into prominence with the appearance of the KL-10 (one model of the {PDP-10}), none of whose connectors matched anything else] n.
The tendency of manufacturers (or, by extension, programmers or purveyors of anything) to come up with new products that don't fit together with the old stuff, thereby making you buy either all new stuff or expensive interface devices.
The KL-10 Massbus connector was actually *patented* by DEC, which reputedly refused to license the design and thus effectively locked third parties out of competition for the lucrative Massbus peripherals market.
This is a source of never-ending frustration for the diehards who maintain older PDP-10 or VAX systems.
There are so *many* of them to choose from!
Compare {backward combatability}. :cons: /konz/ or /kons/ [from LISP] 1. vt. To add a new element to a specified list, esp. at the top.
OK, cons picking a replacement for the console TTY onto the agenda.
2. `cons up': vt. To synthesize from smaller pieces: "to cons up an example". In LISP itself, `cons' is the most fundamental operation for building structures.
It takes any two objects and returns a `dot-pair' or two-branched tree with one object hanging from each branch.
Because the result of a cons is an object, it can be used to build binary trees of any shape and complexity.
Hackers think of it as a sort of universal constructor, and that is where the jargon meanings spring from. :considered harmful: adj.
Dijkstra's note in the March 1968 `Communications of the ACM', "Goto Statement Considered Harmful", fired the first salvo in the structured programming wars.
Amusingly, the ACM considered the resulting acrimony sufficiently harmful that it will (by policy) no longer print an article taking so assertive a position against a coding practice.
In the ensuing decades, a large number of both serious papers and parodies have borne titles of the form "X considered Y".
The structured-programming wars eventually blew over with the realization that both sides were wrong, but use of such titles has remained as a persistent minor in-joke (the `considered silly' found at various places in this lexicon is related). :console:: n.
The operator's station of a {mainframe}.
In times past, this was a privileged location that conveyed godlike powers to anyone with fingers on its keys.
Under UNIX and other modern timesharing OSes, such privileges are guarded by passwords instead, and the console is just the {tty} the system was booted from.
Some of the mystique remains, however, and it is traditional for sysadmins to post urgent messages to all users from the console (on UNIX, /dev/console).
On microcomputer UNIX boxes, the main screen and keyboard (as opposed to character-only terminals talking to a serial port).
Typically only the console can do real graphics or run {X}.
See also {CTY}. :console jockey: n.
Perhaps most used with reference to speeches by company presidents and other professional manipulators. "Content-free?
Uh...that's anything printed on glossy paper.
He gave a talk on the implications of electronic networks for postmodernism and the fin-de-siecle aesthetic.
It was content-free." :control-C: vi.
Stop whatever you are doing.
From the interrupt character used on many operating systems to abort a running program.
Among BSD UNIX hackers, the canonical humorous response to "Give me a break!" :control-O: vi.
From the character used on some operating systems to abort output but allow the program to keep on running.
Generally means that you are not interested in hearing anything more from that person, at least on that topic; a standard response to someone who is flaming.
From the ASCII DC1 or {XON} character (the pronunciation /X-on/ is therefore also used), used to undo a previous {control-S}. :control-S: vi.
Stop talking for a second.
From the ASCII DC3 or XOFF character (the pronunciation /X-of/ is therefore also used).
Considered silly. :Conway's Law: prov.
The name `SAVE' didn't stand for anything; it was just that you lost fewer card decks and listings because they all had SAVE written on them. :cookbook: [from amateur electronics and radio] n.
A book of small code segments that the reader can use to do various {magic} things in programs.
This is analogous to the role of phrasebooks in human languages. :cooked mode: [UNIX] n.
The normal character-input mode, with interrupts enabled and with erase, kill and other special-character interpretations done directly by the tty driver.
Oppose {raw mode}, {rare mode}.
A handle, transaction ID, or other token of agreement between cooperating programs.
I give him a packet, he gives me back a cookie.
The claim check you get from a dry-cleaning shop is a perfect mundane example of a cookie; the only thing it's useful for is to relate a later transaction to this one (so you get the same clothes back).
Compare {magic cookie}; see also {fortune cookie}. :cookie bear: n.
Syn. {cookie monster}. :cookie file: n.
A collection of {fortune cookie}s in a format that facilitates retrieval by a fortune program.
There are several different ones in public distribution, and site admins often assemble their own from various sources including this lexicon. :cookie monster: [from "Sesame Street"] n.
Any of a family of early (1970s) hacks reported on {{TOPS-10}}, {{ITS}}, {{Multics}}, and elsewhere that would lock up either the victim's terminal (on a time-sharing machine) or the {{console}} (on a batch {mainframe}), repeatedly demanding "I WANT A COOKIE".
The required responses ranged in complexity from "COOKIE" through "HAVE A COOKIE" and upward.
See also {wabbit}. :copious free time: [Apple; orig. fr. the intro to Tom Lehrer's song "It Makes A Fellow Proud To Be A Soldier"] n.
1. [used ironically to indicate the speaker's lack of the quantity in question] A mythical schedule slot for accomplishing tasks held to be unlikely or impossible.
Sometimes used to indicate that the speaker is interested in accomplishing the task, but believes that the opportunity will not arise.
I'll implement the automatic layout stuff in my copious free time.
2. [Archly] Time reserved for bogus or otherwise idiotic tasks, such as implementation of {chrome}, or the stroking of {suit}s.
I'll get back to him on that feature in my copious free time." :copper: n.
Conventional electron-carrying network cable with a core conductor of copper --- or aluminum!
Opposed to {light pipe} or, say, a short-range microwave link. :copy protection: n.
A class of (occasionally clever) methods for preventing incompetent pirates from stealing software and legitimate customers from using it.
Considered silly. :copybroke: /ko'pee-brohk/ adj.
1. [play on `copyright'] Used to describe an instance of a copy-protected program that has been `broken'; that is, a copy with the copy-protection scheme disabled.
Copy-protected software which is unusable because of some bit-rot or bug that has confused the anti-piracy check. :copyleft: /kop'ee-left/ [play on `copyright'] n.
The copyright notice (`General Public License') carried by {GNU} {EMACS} and other Free Software Foundation software, granting reuse and reproduction rights to all comers (but see also {General Public Virus}).
By extension, any copyright notice intended to achieve similar aims. :copywronged: /ko'pee-rongd/ [play on `copyright'] adj.
Syn. for {copybroke}. :core: n.
Dates from the days of ferrite-core memory; now archaic as techspeak most places outside IBM, but also still used in the UNIX community and by old-time hackers or those who would sound like them.
Some derived idioms are quite current; `in core', for example, means `in memory' (as opposed to `on disk'), and both {core dump} and the `core image' or `core file' produced by one are terms in favor.
Commonwealth hackish prefers {store}. :core cancer: n.
By extension, used for humans passing out, vomiting, or registering extreme shock.
He heard about X and dumped core.
Occasionally used for a human rambling on pointlessly at great length; esp. in apology: "Sorry, I dumped core on you".
A recapitulation of knowledge (compare {bits}, sense 1).
Hence, spewing all one knows about a topic (syn. {brain dump}), esp. in a lecture or answer to an exam question.
Short, concise answers are better than core dumps" (from the instructions to an exam at Columbia). See {core}. :core leak: n.
Syn. {memory leak}. :Core Wars: n.
A game between `assembler' programs in a simulated machine, where the objective is to kill your opponent's program by overwriting it.
Dewdney's column in `Scientific American' magazine, this was actually devised by Victor Vyssotsky, Robert Morris, and Dennis Ritchie in the early 1960s (their original game was called `Darwin' and ran on a PDP-1 at Bell Labs).
See {core}. :corge: /korj/ [originally, the name of a cat] n.
Yet another {metasyntactic variable}, invented by Mike Gallaher and propagated by the {GOSMACS} documentation.
See {grault}. :cosmic rays: n.
Notionally, the cause of {bit rot}.
However, this is a semi-independent usage that may be invoked as a humorous way to {handwave} away any minor {randomness} that doesn't seem worth the bother of investigating.
Hey, Eric --- I just got a burst of garbage on my {tube}, where did that come from?
Compare {sunspots}, {phase of the moon}.
Intel could not explain random bit drops in their early chips, and one hypothesis was cosmic rays.
So they created the World's Largest Lead Safe, using 25 tons of the stuff, and used two identical boards for testing.
One was placed in the safe, one outside.
The hypothesis was that if cosmic rays were causing the bit drops, they should see a statistically significant difference between the error rates on the two boards.
They did not observe such a difference.
Further investigation demonstrated conclusively that the bit drops were due to alpha particle emissions from thorium (and to a much lesser degree uranium) in the encapsulation material.
Connotes that the program is throwing its hands up by design rather than because of a bug or oversight.
The parser saw a control-A in its input where it was looking for a printable, so it coughed and died.
Compare {die}, {die horribly}. :cowboy: [Sun, from William Gibson's {cyberpunk} SF] n.
Many of CP/M's features and conventions strongly resemble those of early DEC operating systems such as {{TOPS-10}}, OS/8, RSTS, and RSX-11.
See {{MS-DOS}}, {operating system}. :CPU Wars: /C-P-U worz/ n.
A 1979 large-format comic by Chas Andres chronicling the attempts of the brainwashed androids of IPM (Impossible to Program Machines) to conquer and destroy the peaceful denizens of HEC (Human Engineered Computers).
This rather transparent allegory featured many references to {ADVENT} and the immortal line "Eat flaming death, minicomputer mongrels!" (uttered, of course, by an IPM stormtrooper).
It is alleged that the author subsequently received a letter of appreciation on IBM company stationery from the head of IBM's Thomas J.
Watson Research Laboratories (then, as now, one of the few islands of true hackerdom in the IBM archipelago).
The lower loop of the B in the IBM logo, it is said, had been carefully whited out.
See {eat flaming death}. :crack root: v.
To defeat the security system of a UNIX machine and gain {root} privileges thereby; see {cracking}. :cracker: n.
One who breaks security on a system.
Coined ca. 1985 by hackers in defense against journalistic misuse of {hacker} (q.v., sense 8).
An earlier attempt to establish `worm' in this sense around 1981--82 on USENET was largely a failure. Both these neologisms reflected a strong revulsion against the theft and vandalism perpetrated by cracking rings.
Some other reasons crackers are looked down on are discussed in the entries on {cracking} and {phreaking}.
See also {samurai}, {dark-side hacker}, and {hacker ethic, the}. :cracking: n.
The act of breaking into a computer system; what a {cracker} does.
Contrary to widespread myth, this does not usually involve some mysterious leap of hackerly brilliance, but rather persistence and the dogged repetition of a handful of fairly well-known tricks that exploit common weaknesses in the security of target systems.
Accordingly, most crackers are only mediocre hackers. :crank: [from automotive slang] vt. Verb used to describe the performance of a machine, especially sustained performance.
This box cranks (or, cranks at) about 6 megaflops, with a burst mode of twice that on vectorized operations." :crash: 1. n.
A sudden, usually drastic failure.
Most often said of the {system} (q.v., sense 1), esp. of magnetic disk drives (the term originally described what happened when the air gap of a Winchester disk collapses).
Three {luser}s lost their files in last night's disk crash.
Has the system just crashed?" "Something crashed the OS!
Also used transitively to indicate the cause of the crash (usually a person or a program, or both).
Those idiots playing {SPACEWAR} crashed the system.
Sometimes said of people hitting the sack after a long {hacking run}; see {gronk out}. :crash and burn: vi.,n.
A spectacular crash, in the mode of the conclusion of the car-chase scene in the movie "Bullitt" and many subsequent imitators (compare {die horribly}).
Sun-3 monitors losing the flyback transformer and lightning strikes on VAX-11/780 backplanes are notable crash and burn generators.
The construction `crash-and-burn machine' is reported for a computer used exclusively for alpha or {beta} testing, or reproducing bugs (i.e., not for development).
The implication is that it wouldn't be such a disaster if that machine crashed, since only the testers would be inconvenienced. :crawling horror: n.
Ancient crufty hardware or software that is kept obstinately alive by forces beyond the control of the hackers at a site.
Like {dusty deck} or {gonkulator}, but connotes that the thing described is not just an irritation but an active menace to health and sanity.
Mostly we code new stuff in C, but they pay us to maintain one big FORTRAN II application from nineteen-sixty-X that's a real crawling horror....
Compare {WOMBAT}. :cray: /kray/ n.
1. (properly, capitalized) One of the line of supercomputers designed by Cray Research.
The {canonical} {number-crunching} machine. The term is actually the lowercased last name of Seymour Cray, a noted computer architect and co-founder of the company.
Numerous vivid legends surround him, some true and some admittedly invented by Cray Research brass to shape their corporate culture and image. :cray instability: n.
A shortcoming of a program or algorithm that manifests itself only when a large problem is being run on a powerful machine (see {cray}).
Generally more subtle than bugs that can be detected in smaller problems running on a workstation or mini. :crayola: /kray-oh'l*/ n.
A super-mini or -micro computer that provides some reasonable percentage of supercomputer performance for an unreasonably low price.
Might also be a {killer micro}. :crayon: n.
Someone who works on Cray supercomputers.
More specifically, it implies a programmer, probably of the CDC ilk, probably male, and almost certainly wearing a tie (irrespective of gender).
Systems types who have a UNIX background tend not to be described as crayons.
A {computron} (sense 2) that participates only in {number-crunching}.
A unit of computational power equal to that of a single Cray-1.
There is a standard joke about this that derives from an old Crayola crayon promotional gimmick: When you buy 64 crayons you get a free sharpener. :creationism: n.
The (false) belief that large, innovative software designs can be completely specified in advance and then painlessly magicked out of the void by the normal efforts of a team of normally talented programmers.
To advance, grow, or multiply inexorably.
In hackish usage this verb has overtones of menace and silliness, evoking the creeping horrors of low-budget monster movies. :creeping elegance: n.
Describes a tendency for parts of a design to become {elegant} past the point of diminishing return.
This often happens at the expense of the less interesting parts of the design, the schedule, and other things deemed important in the {Real World}.
See also {creeping featurism}, {second-system effect}, {tense}. :creeping featurism: /kree'ping fee'chr-izm/ n.
Describes a systematic tendency to load more {chrome} and {feature}s onto systems at the expense of whatever elegance they may have possessed when originally designed.
You know, the main problem with {BSD} UNIX has always been creeping featurism.
When creeping featurism gets out of hand, it's like a cancer.
Usually this term is used to describe computer programs, but it could also be said of the federal government, the IRS 1040 form, and new cars.
A similar phenomenon sometimes afflicts conscious redesigns; see {second-system effect}.
See also {creeping elegance}. :creeping featuritis: /kree'ping fee'-chr-i:`t*s/ n.
Variant of {creeping featurism}, with its own spoonerization: `feeping creaturitis'.
Congenital {loser}; an obnoxious person; someone who can't do anything right.
Wrong; stupid; non-functional; very poorly designed.
Also used pejoratively of people.
See {dread high-bit disease} for an example. Approximate synonyms: {bletcherous}, `bagbiting' (see {bagbiter}), {losing}, {brain-damaged}. :crippleware: n.
Software that has some important functionality deliberately removed, so as to entice potential users to pay for a working version.
2. [Cambridge] {Guiltware} that exhorts you to donate to some charity (compare {careware}).
To upgrade, you buy another 486 chip with everything *but* the co-processor disabled.
When you put them together you have two crippled chips doing the work of one.
Don't you love Intel? :critical mass: n.
In physics, the minimum amount of fissionable material required to sustain a chain reaction.
Of a software product, describes a condition of the software such that fixing one bug introduces one plus {epsilon} bugs.
When software achieves critical mass, it can only be discarded and rewritten. :crlf: /ker'l*f/, sometimes /kru'l*f/ or /C-R-L-F/ n. (often capitalized as `CRLF') A carriage return (CR) followed by a line feed (LF).
More loosely, whatever it takes to get you from the end of one line of text to the beginning of the next line.
Under {{UNIX}} influence this usage has become less common (UNIX uses a bare line feed as its `CRLF'). :crock: [from the obvious mainstream scatologism] n.
Also in the adjectives `crockish' and `crocky', and the nouns `crockishness' and `crockitude'. :cross-post: [USENET] vi.
To post a single article simultaneously to several newsgroups.
Distinguished from posting the article repeatedly, once to each newsgroup, which causes people to see it multiple times (this is very bad form).
Pejorative term for the hundreds of megabytes of low-quality {freeware} circulated by user's groups and BBS systems in the micro-hobbyist world.
Yet *another* set of disk catalog utilities for {{MS-DOS}}?
What crudware!" :cruft: /kruhft/ [back-formation from {crufty}] 1. n.
The dust that gathers under your bed is cruft; the TMRC Dictionary correctly noted that attacking it with a broom only produces more.
The results of shoddy construction.
3. vt. [from `hand cruft', pun on `hand craft'] To write assembler code for something normally (and better) done by a compiler (see {hand-hacking}).
MIT or Lincoln Labs people may well have coined the term as a knock on the competition. :cruft together: vt. (also `cruft up') To throw together something ugly but temporarily workable.
Like vt. {kluge up}, but more pejorative.
There isn't any program now to reverse all the lines of a file, but I can probably cruft one together in about 10 minutes.
See {hack together}, {hack up}, {kluge up}, {crufty}. :cruftsmanship: /kruhfts'm*n-ship / n. [from {cruft}] The antithesis of craftsmanship. :crufty: /kruhf'tee/ [origin unknown; poss. from `crusty' or `cruddy'] adj.
The {canonical} example is "This is standard old crufty DEC software".
In fact, one fanciful theory of the origin of `crufty' holds that was originally a mutation of `crusty' applied to DEC software so old that the `s' characters were tall and skinny, looking more like `f' characters.
Unpleasant, especially to the touch, often with encrusted junk.
Like spilled coffee smeared with peanut butter and catsup.
4. (sometimes spelled `cruftie') n.
A small crufty object (see {frob}); often one that doesn't fit well into the scheme of things.
A LISP property list is a good place to store crufties (or, collectively, {random} cruft)." :crumb: n.
Two binary digits; a {quad}.
Larger than a {bit}, smaller than a {nybble}.
Syn. {tayste}. :crunch: 1. vi.
To process, usually in a time-consuming or complicated way.
Connotes an essentially trivial operation that is nonetheless painful to perform.
The pain may be due to the triviality's being embedded in a loop from 1 to 1,000,000,000. "FORTRAN programs do mostly {number-crunching}.
Used at XEROX and CMU, among other places.
Also describes a notional sound made by groveling hardware.
See {wugga wugga}, {grind} (sense 3). :cryppie: /krip'ee/ n.
One who hacks or implements cryptographic software or hardware. :CTSS: /C-T-S-S/ n.
An early (1963) experiment in the design of interactive time-sharing operating systems, ancestral to {{Multics}}, {{UNIX}}, and {{ITS}}.
The term is a contraction of `Console {tty}', that is, `Console TeleTYpe'. This {{ITS}}- and {{TOPS-10}}-associated term has become less common, as most UNIX hackers simply refer to the CTY as `the console'. :cube: n.
1. [short for `cubicle'] A module in the open-plan offices used at many programming shops.
I've got the manuals in my cube.
A NeXT machine (which resembles a matte-black cube). :cubing: [parallel with `tubing'] vi.
Hacking on an IPSC (Intel Personal SuperComputer) hypercube.
Hacking Rubik's Cube or related puzzles, either physically or mathematically.
An indescribable form of self-torture (see sense 1 or 2). :cursor dipped in X: n.
There are a couple of metaphors in English of the form `pen dipped in X' (perhaps the most common values of X are `acid', `bile', and `vitriol').
These map over neatly to this hackish usage (the cursor being what moves, leaving letters behind, when one is composing on-line).
He must've had his cursor dipped in acid when he wrote that one!" :cuspy: /kuhs'pee/ [WPI: from the DEC abbreviation CUSP, for `Commonly Used System Program', i.e., a utility program used by many people] adj.
1. (of a program) Well-written.
A program that performs well and interfaces well to users is cuspy. See {rude}.
3. [NYU] Said of an attractive woman, especially one regarded as available.
Implies a certain curvaceousness. :cut a tape: vi.
To write a software or document distribution on magnetic tape for shipment.
Has nothing to do with physically cutting the medium!
Early versions of this lexicon claimed that one never analogously speaks of `cutting a disk', but this has since been reported as live usage.
Related slang usages are mainstream business's `cut a check', the recording industry's `cut a record', and the military's `cut an order'. All of these usages reflect physical processes in obsolete recording and duplication technologies.
The first stage in manufacturing an old-style vinyl record involved cutting grooves in a stamping die with a precision lathe.
More mundanely, the dominant technology for mass duplication of paper documents in pre-photocopying days involved "cutting a stencil", punching away portions of the wax overlay on a silk screen.
More directly, paper tape with holes punched in it was an inportant early storage medium. :cybercrud: /si:'ber-kruhd/ [coined by Ted Nelson] n.
Verbiage with a high {MEGO} factor.
The computer equivalent of bureaucratese. :cyberpunk: /si:'ber-puhnk/ [orig. by SF writer Bruce Bethke and/or editor Gardner Dozois] n.,adj.
See {cyberspace}, {ice}, {jack in}, {go flatline}. :cyberspace: /si:'ber-spays/ n.
Notional `information-space' loaded with visual cues and navigable with brain-computer interfaces called `cyberspace decks'; a characteristic prop of {cyberpunk} SF.
At the time of this writing (mid-1991), serious efforts to construct {virtual reality} interfaces modeled explicitly on Gibsonian cyberspace are already under way, using more conventional devices such as glove sensors and binocular TV headsets.
Few hackers are prepared to deny outright the possibility of a cyberspace someday evolving out of the network (see {network, the}).
Occasionally, the metaphoric location of the mind of a person in {hack mode}.
Some hackers report experiencing strong eidetic imagery when in hack mode; interestingly, independent reports from multiple sources suggest that there are common features to the experience.
In particular, the dominant colors of this subjective `cyberspace' are often gray and silver, and the imagery often involves constellations of marching dots, elaborate shifting patterns of lines and angles, or moire patterns. :cycle: 1. n.
The basic unit of computation.
What every hacker wants more of (noted hacker Bill Gosper describes himself as a "cycle junkie").
One can describe an instruction as taking so many `clock cycles'.
Often the computer can access its memory once on every clock cycle, and so one speaks also of `memory cycles'.
These are technical meanings of {cycle}.
The jargon meaning comes from the observation that there are only so many cycles per second, and when you are sharing a computer the cycles get divided up among the users.
The more cycles the computer spends working on your program rather than someone else's, the faster your program will run.
That's why every hacker wants more cycles: so he can spend less time waiting for the computer to respond.
By extension, a notional unit of *human* thought power, emphasizing that lots of things compete for the typical hacker's think time.
I refused to get involved with the Rubik's Cube back when it was big.
Knew I'd burn too many cycles on it if I let myself.
3. vt. Syn. {bounce}, {120 reset}; from the phrase `cycle power'.
Cycle the machine again, that serial port's still hung." :cycle crunch: n.
A situation where the number of people trying to use the computer simultaneously has reached the point where no one can get enough cycles because they are spread too thin and the system has probably begun to {thrash}.
This is an inevitable result of Parkinson's Law applied to timesharing.
Usually the only solution is to buy more computer.
Several iterations of this cycle have been observed in graphics-processor design, and at least one or two in communications and floating-point processors.
Also known as `the Wheel of Life', `the Wheel of Samsara', and other variations of the basic Hindu/Buddhist theological idea. :cycle server: n.
A powerful machine that exists primarily for running large {batch} jobs.
Implies that interactive tasks such as editing are done on other machines on the network, such as workstations. = D = ===== :D.
The former site of {{SAIL}}.
Hackers thought this was very funny because the obvious connection to electrical engineering was nonexistent --- the lab was named for a Donald C. Power.
Compare {Marginal Hacks}. :daemon: /day'mn/ or /dee'mn/ [from the mythological meaning, later rationalized as the acronym `Disk And Execution MONitor'] n. A program that is not invoked explicitly, but lies dormant waiting for some condition(s) to occur.
The idea is that the perpetrator of the condition need not be aware that a daemon is lurking (though often a program will commit an action only because it knows that it will implicitly invoke a daemon).
For example, under {{ITS}} writing a file on the {LPT} spooler's directory would invoke the spooling daemon, which would then print the file.
The advantage is that programs wanting (in this example) files printed need not compete for access to the {LPT}.
They simply enter their implicit requests and let the daemon decide what to do with them. Daemons are usually spawned automatically by the system, and may either live forever or be regenerated at intervals.
Daemon and {demon} are often used interchangeably, but seem to have distinct connotations.
The term `daemon' was introduced to computing by {CTSS} people (who pronounced it /dee'mon/) and used it to refer to what ITS called a {dragon}.
Although the meaning and the pronunciation have drifted, we think this glossary reflects current (1991) usage. :dangling pointer: n.
A reference that doesn't actually lead anywhere (in C and some other languages, a pointer that doesn't actually point at anything valid).
Usually this is because it formerly pointed to something that has moved or disappeared.
Used as jargon in a generalization of its techspeak meaning; for example, a local phone number for a person who has since moved to the other coast is a dangling pointer. :dark-side hacker: n.
A criminal or malicious hacker; a {cracker}.
From George Lucas's Darth Vader, "seduced by the dark side of the Force".
The implication that hackers form a sort of elite of technological Jedi Knights is intended.
Oppose {samurai}. :Datamation: /day`t*-may'sh*n/ n.
A magazine that many hackers assume all {suit}s read.
Used of people only. :dd: /dee-dee/ [UNIX: from IBM {JCL}] vt. Equivalent to {cat} or {BLT}.
The jargon usage is now very rare outside UNIX sites and now nearly obsolete even there, as `dd(1)' has been {deprecated} for a long time (though it has no exact replacement).
Replaced by {BLT} or simple English `copy'. :DDT: /D-D-T/ n.
Generic term for a program that assists in debugging other programs by showing individual machine instructions in a readable symbolic form and letting the user change them.
In this sense the term DDT is now archaic, having been widely displaced by `debugger' or names of individual programs like `dbx', `adb', `gdb', or `sdb'.
2. [ITS] Under MIT's fabled {{ITS}} operating system, DDT (running under the alias HACTRN) was also used as the {shell} or top level command language used to execute other programs.
Any one of several specific DDTs (sense 1) supported on early DEC hardware.
The DEC PDP-10 Reference Handbook (1969) contained a footnote on the first page of the documentation for DDT which illuminates the origin of the term: Historical footnote: DDT was developed at MIT for the PDP-1 computer in 1961.
At that time DDT stood for "DEC Debugging Tape". Since then, the idea of an on-line debugging program has propagated throughout the computer industry.
DDT programs are now available for all DEC computers.
To disappear or dissolve; the image that goes with it is of an object breaking up into raster lines and static and then dissolving.
Occasionally used of a person who seems to have suddenly `fuzzed out' mentally rather than physically. Usage: extremely silly, also rare.
This verb was actually invented as *fictional* hacker jargon, and adopted in a spirit of irony by real hackers years after the fact.
2. vt. On a Macintosh, many program structures (including the code itself) are managed in small segments of the program file known as `resources'.
The standard resource compiler is Rez.
The standard resource decompiler is DeRez.
Thus, decompiling a resource is `derezzing'.
Usage: very common. :dead: adj.
Non-functional; {down}; {crash}ed. Especially used of hardware.
At XEROX PARC, software that is working but not undergoing continued development and support. :dead code: n.
Routines that can never be accessed because all calls to them have been removed, or code that cannot be reached because it is guarded by a control structure that provably must always transfer control somewhere else.
Syn. {grunge}. :DEADBEEF: /ded-beef/ n.
The hexadecimal word-fill pattern for freshly allocated memory (decimal -21524111) under a number of IBM environments, including the RS/6000.
As in "Your program is DEADBEEF" (meaning gone, aborted, flushed from memory); if you start from an odd half-word boundary, of course, you have BEEFDEAD. :deadlock: n.
1. [techspeak] A situation wherein two or more processes are unable to proceed because each is waiting for one of the others to do something.
Another common flavor is `constipation', where each process is trying to send stuff to the other but all buffers are full because nobody is reading anything.) See {deadly embrace}.
Same as {deadlock}, though usually used only when exactly 2 processes are involved.
This is the more popular term in Europe, while {deadlock} predominates in the United States. :death code: n.
A routine whose job is to set everything in the computer --- registers, memory, flags, everything --- to zero, including that portion of memory where it is running; its last act is to stomp on its own "store zero" instruction.
The PC will immediately wrap around core as many times as it can until a user hits HALT.
Any empty memory location is death code.
Worse, the manufacturer recommended use of this instruction in startup code (which would be in ROM and therefore survive). :Death Star: [from the movie "Star Wars"] 1.
The AT&T corporate logo, which appears on computers sold by AT&T and bears an uncanny resemblance to the `Death Star' in the movie.
This usage is particularly common among partisans of {BSD} UNIX, who tend to regard the AT&T versions as inferior and AT&T as a bad guy.
Copies still circulate of a poster printed by Mt.
Xinu showing a starscape with a space fighter labeled 4.2 BSD streaking away from a broken AT&T logo wreathed in flames.
AT&T's internal magazine, `Focus', uses `death star' for an incorrectly done AT&T logo in which the inner circle in the top left is dark instead of light --- a frequent result of dark-on-light logo images. :DEC Wars: n.
A 1983 {USENET} posting by Alan Hastings and Steve Tarr spoofing the "Star Wars" movies in hackish terms.
Some years later, ESR (disappointed by Hastings and Tarr's failure to exploit a great premise more thoroughly) posted a 3-times-longer complete rewrite called "UNIX WARS"; the two are often confused. :DEChead: /dek'hed/ n.
Not flattering. 2. [from `deadhead'] A Grateful Dead fan working at DEC. :deckle: /dek'l/ [from dec- and {nybble}; the original spelling seems to have been `decle'] n.
Reported among developers for Mattel's GI 1600 (the Intellivision games processor), a chip with 16-bit-wide RAM but 10-bit-wide ROM. :deep hack mode: n.
See {hack mode}. :deep magic: [poss. from C.
An awesomely arcane technique central to a program or system, esp. one not generally published and available to hackers at large (compare {black art}); one that could only have been composed by a true {wizard}.
Compiler optimization techniques and many aspects of {OS} design used to be {deep magic}; many techniques in cryptography, signal processing, graphics, and AI still are. Compare {heavy wizardry}.
Esp. found in comments of the form "Deep magic begins here...".
Compare {voodoo programming}. :deep space: n.
Describes the notional location of any program that has gone {off the trolley}.
Esp. used of programs that just sit there silently grinding long after either failure or some output is expected.
I should have gotten a prompt ten seconds ago.
The program's in deep space somewhere.
The metaphorical location of a human so dazed and/or confused or caught up in some esoteric form of {bogosity} that he or she no longer responds coherently to normal communication.
Compare {page out}. :defenestration: [from the traditional Czechoslovak method of assassinating prime ministers, via SF fandom] n.
Proper karmic retribution for an incorrigible punster.
Oh, ghod, that was *awful*!
The act of exiting a window system in order to get better response time from a full-screen program.
This comes from the dictionary meaning of `defenestrate', which is to throw something out a window.
The act of discarding something under the assumption that it will improve matters.
I don't have any disk space left.
Well, why don't you defenestrate that 100 megs worth of old core dumps?" 4. [proposed] The requirement to support a command-line interface. "It has to run on a VT100.
I've been defenestrated!" :defined as: adj.
In the role of, usually in an organization-chart sense.
Pete is currently defined as bug prioritizer.
Compare {logical}. :dehose: /dee-hohz/ vt. To clear a {hosed} condition. :delint: /dee-lint/ v.
To modify code to remove problems detected when {lint}ing.
Confusingly, this is also referred to as `linting' code. :delta: n.
1. [techspeak] A quantitative change, especially a small or incremental one (this use is general in physics and engineering).
I just doubled the speed of my program!
What was the delta on program size?
A small quantity, but not as small as {epsilon}.
The jargon usage of {delta} and {epsilon} stems from the traditional use of these letters in mathematics for very small numerical quantities, particularly in `epsilon-delta' proofs in limit theory (as in the differential calculus).
The term {delta} is often used, once {epsilon} has been mentioned, to mean a quantity that is slightly bigger than {epsilon} but still very small.
The cost isn't epsilon, but it's delta" means that the cost isn't totally negligible, but it is nevertheless very small.
Common constructions include `within delta of ---', `within epsilon of ---': that is, close to and even closer to. :demented: adj.
Yet another term of disgust used to describe a program.
The connotation in this case is that the program works as designed, but the design is bad.
Said, for example, of a program that generates large numbers of meaningless error messages, implying that it is on the brink of imminent collapse.
Compare {wonky}, {bozotic}. :demigod: n.
Major demigods include Ken Thompson and Dennis Ritchie (co-inventors of {{UNIX}} and {C}) and Richard M.
In their hearts of hearts, most hackers dream of someday becoming demigods themselves, and more than one major software project has been driven to completion by the author's veiled hopes of apotheosis.
See also {net.god}, {true-hacker}. :demo: /de'moh/ [short for `demonstration'] 1. v.
To demonstrate a product or prototype.
A far more effective way of inducing bugs to manifest than any number of {test} runs, especially when important people are watching.
Esp. as `demo version', can refer to either a special version of a program (frequently with some features crippled) which is distributed at little or no cost to the user for demonstration purposes. :demo mode: [Sun] n.
The state of being {heads down} in order to finish code in time for a {demo}, usually due yesterday. 2.
1. [MIT] A portion of a program that is not invoked explicitly, but that lies dormant waiting for some condition(s) to occur.
The distinction is that demons are usually processes within a program, while daemons are usually programs running on an operating system.
Demons are particularly common in AI programs.
For example, a knowledge-manipulation program might implement inference rules as demons.
Whenever a new piece of knowledge was added, various demons would activate (which demons depends on the particular piece of data) and would create additional pieces of knowledge by applying their respective inference rules to the original piece.
These new pieces could in turn activate more demons as the inferences filtered down through chains of logic.
Meanwhile, the main program could continue with whatever its primary task was.
2. [outside MIT] Often used equivalently to {daemon} --- especially in the {{UNIX}} world, where the latter spelling and pronunciation is considered mildly archaic. :depeditate: /dee-ped'*-tayt/ [by (faulty) analogy with `decapitate'] vt. Humorously, to cut off the feet of.
When one is using some computer-aided typesetting tools, careless placement of text blocks within a page or above a rule can result in chopped-off letter descenders.
Such letters are said to have been depeditated. :deprecated: adj.
Said of a program or feature that is considered obsolescent and in the process of being phased out, usually in favor of a specified replacement.
Deprecated features can, unfortunately, linger on for many years.
This term appears with distressing frequency in standards documents when the committees which write them decide that a sufficient number of users have written code which depends on specific features which are out of favor. :deserves to lose: adj.
Said of someone who willfully does the {Wrong Thing}; humorously, if one uses a feature known to be {marginal}.
What is meant is that one deserves the consequences of one's {losing} actions.
Boy, anyone who tries to use {mess-dos} deserves to {lose}!" ({{ITS}} fans used to say this of {{UNIX}}; many still do.) See also {screw}, {chomp}, {bagbiter}. :desk check: n.,v.
Compare {eyeball search}, {vdiff}, {vgrep}. :Devil Book: n. `The Design and Implementation of the 4.3BSD UNIX Operating System', by Samuel J.
Leffler, Marshall Kirk McKusick, Michael J.
Quarterman (Addison-Wesley Publishers, 1989) --- the standard reference book on the internals of {BSD} UNIX.
A person in a development group.
See also {doco} and {mango}. :dickless workstation: n.
Extremely pejorative hackerism for `diskless workstation', a class of botches including the Sun 3/50 and other machines designed exclusively to network with an expensive central disk server.
These combine all the disadvantages of time-sharing with all the disadvantages of distributed personal computers; typically, they cannot even {boot} themselves without help (in the form of some kind of {breath-of-life packet}) from the server. :dictionary flame: [USENET] n.
I diddled a copy of {ADVENT} so it didn't double-space all the time.
Let's diddle this piece of code and see if the problem goes away.
See {tweak} and {twiddle}. 2. n.
The action or result of diddling.
See also {tweak}, {twiddle}, {frob}. :die: v.
Unlike {crash}, which is used primarily of hardware, this verb is used of both hardware and software.
See also {go flatline}, {casters-up mode}. :die horribly: v.
The software equivalent of {crash and burn}, and the preferred emphatic form of {die}.
The converter choked on an FF in its input and died horribly". :diff: /dif/ n.
A change listing, especially giving differences between (and additions to) source code or documents (the term is often used in the plural `diffs').
Send me your diffs for the Jargon File!
Specifically, such a listing produced by the `diff(1)' command, esp. when used as specification input to the `patch(1)' utility (which can actually perform the modifications; see {patch}).
This is a common method of distributing patches and source updates in the UNIX/C world.
See also {vdiff}, {mod}. :digit: n.
An employee of Digital Equipment Corporation.
See also {VAX}, {VMS}, {PDP-10}, {{TOPS-10}}, {DEChead}, {double DECkers}, {field circus}. :dike: vt. To remove or disable a portion of something, as a wire from a computer or a subroutine from a program.
To `dike something out' means to use such cutters to remove something. Indeed, the TMRC Dictionary defined dike as "to attack with dikes".
Among hackers this term has been metaphorically extended to informational objects such as sections of code. :ding: n.,vi.
Usage: rare among hackers, but commoner in the {Real World}.
2. `dinged': What happens when someone in authority gives you a minor bitching about something, esp. something trivial.
I was dinged for having a messy desk." :dink: /dink/ n.
Said of a machine that has the {bitty box} nature; a machine too small to be worth bothering with --- sometimes the system you're currently forced to work on.
First heard from an MIT hacker working on a CP/M system with 64K, in reference to any 6502 system, then from fans of 32-bit architectures about 16-bit machines.
GNUMACS will never work on that dink machine.
Probably derived from mainstream `dinky', which isn't sufficiently pejorative. :dinosaur: n.
Any hardware requiring raised flooring and special power.
Used especially of old minis and mainframes, in contrast with newer microprocessor-based machines.
In a famous quote from the 1988 UNIX EXPO, Bill Joy compared the mainframe in the massive IBM display with a grazing dinosaur "with a truck outside pumping its bodily fluids through it".
Compare {big iron}; see also {mainframe}.
2. [IBM] A very conservative user; a {zipperhead}. :dinosaur pen: n.
A traditional {mainframe} computer room complete with raised flooring, special power, its own ultra-heavy-duty air conditioning, and a side order of Halon fire extinguishers.
See {boa}. :dinosaurs mating: n.
Said to occur when yet another {big iron} merger or buyout occurs; reflects a perception by hackers that these signal another stage in the long, slow dying of the {mainframe} industry.
In its glory days of the 1960s, it was `IBM and the Seven Dwarves': Burroughs, Control Data, General Electric, Honeywell, NCR, RCA, and Univac.
RCA and GE sold out early, and it was `IBM and the Bunch' (Burroughs, Univac, NCR, Control Data, and Honeywell) for a while.
More such earth-shaking unions of doomed giants seem inevitable. :dirtball: [XEROX PARC] n.
A small, perhaps struggling outsider; not in the major or even the minor leagues.
For example, "Xerox is not a dirtball company". [Outsiders often observe in the PARC culture an institutional arrogance which usage of this term exemplifies.
The brilliance and scope of PARC's contributions to computer science have been such that this superior attitude is not much resented. --- ESR] :dirty power: n.
Electrical mains voltage that is unfriendly to the delicate innards of computers.
Spikes, {drop-outs}, average voltage significantly higher or lower than nominal, or just plain noise can all cause problems of varying subtlety and severity (these are collectively known as {power hit}s). :disclaimer: n. [USENET] n.
The veneration of {Eris}, a.k.a.
A program with the same approximate purpose as a kaleidoscope: to make pretty pictures.
Famous display hacks include {munching squares}, {smoking clover}, the BSD UNIX `rain(6)' program, `worms(6)' on miscellaneous UNIXes, and the {X} `kaleid(1)' program.
The {hack value} of a display hack is proportional to the esthetic value of the images times the cleverness of the algorithm divided by the size of the code.
Syn. {psychedelicware}. :Dissociated Press: [play on `Associated Press'; perhaps inspired by a reference in the 1949 Bugs Bunny cartoon "What's Up, Doc?"] n.
An algorithm for transforming any text into potentially humorous garbage even more efficiently than by passing it through a {marketroid}.
You start by printing any N consecutive words (or letters) in the text.
Then at every step you search for any random occurrence in the original text of the last N words (or letters) already printed and then print the next word or letter. {EMACS} has a handy command for this.
Here is a short example of word-based Dissociated Press applied to an earlier version of this Jargon File: wart: n.
A small, crocky {feature} that sticks out of an array (C has no checks for this).
A bit was named aften /bee't*/ prefer to use the other guy's re, especially in every cast a chuckle on neithout getting into useful informash speech makes removing a featuring a move or usage actual abstractionsidered interj.
Similar techniques called `travesty generators' have been employed with considerable satirical effect to the utterances of USENET flamers; see {pseudo}. :distribution: n.
A software source tree packaged for distribution; but see {kit}.
A vague term encompassing mailing lists and USENET newsgroups (but not {BBS} {fora}); any topic-oriented message channel with multiple recipients.
An information-space domain (usually loosely correlated with geography) to which propagation of a USENET message is restricted; a much-underutilized feature. :do protocol: [from network protocol programming] vi.
To perform an interaction with somebody or something that follows a clearly defined procedure.
For example, "Let's do protocol with the check" at a restaurant means to ask for the check, calculate the tip and everybody's share, collect money from everybody, generate change as necessary, and pay the bill.
See {protocol}. :doc: /dok/ n.
Common spoken and written shorthand for `documentation'.
Often used in the plural `docs' and in the construction `doc file' (documentation available on-line). :doco: /do'koh/ [orig. in-house jargon at Symbolics] n.
See also {devo} and {mango}. :documentation:: n.
The multiple kilograms of macerated, pounded, steamed, bleached, and pressed trees that accompany most modern software or hardware products (see also {tree-killer}).
Hackers seldom read paper documentation and (too) often resist writing it; they prefer theirs to be terse and on-line.
A common comment on this is "You can't {grep} dead trees".
See {drool-proof paper}, {verbiage}. :dodgy: adj.
Preferred outside the U.S. :dogcow: /dog'kow/ n.
See {Moof}. :dogwash: /dog'wosh/ [From a quip in the `urgency' field of a very optional software change request, ca. 1982.
It was something like "Urgency: Wash your dog first".] 1. n.
A project of minimal priority, undertaken as an escape from more serious work.
2. v. To engage in such a project.
Many games and much {freeware} get written this way. :domainist: /doh-mayn'ist/ adj.
See also {big-endian}, sense 2. 2.
Said of a site, mailer, or routing program which knows how to handle domainist addresses.
Said of a person (esp. a site admin) who prefers domain addressing, supports a domainist mailer, or prosyletizes for domainist addressing and disdains {bang path}s.
This is now (1991) semi-obsolete, as most sites have converted. :Don't do that, then!: [from an old doctor's office joke about a patient with a trivial complaint] Stock response to a user complaint.
When I type control-S, the whole system comes to a halt for thirty seconds.
Don't do that, then!" (or "So don't do that!").
Compare {RTFM}. :dongle: /dong'gl/ n.
A security or {copy protection} device for commercial microcomputer programs consisting of a serialized EPROM and some drivers in a D-25 connector shell, which must be connected to an I/O port of the computer while the program is run.
Programs that use a dongle query the port at startup and at programmed intervals thereafter, and terminate if it does not respond with the dongle's programmed validation code.
Thus, users can make as many copies of the program as they want but must pay for each dongle.
The idea was clever, but it was initially a failure, as users disliked tying up a serial port this way.
The devices are still not widely used, as the industry has moved away from copy-protection schemes in general.
By extension, any physical electronic key or transferrable ID required for a program to function.
See {dongle-disk}. [Note: in early 1992, advertising copy from Rainbow Technologies (a manufacturer of dongles) included a claim that the word derived from "Don Gall", allegedly the inventor of the device.
The company's receptionist will cheerfully tell you that the story is a myth invented for the ad copy.
Nevertheless, I expect it to haunt my life as a lexicographer for at least the next ten years. ---ESR] :dongle-disk: /don'gl disk/ n.
A collective noun for any set of memory bits.
This is extremely archaic and may no longer be live jargon; it dates from the days of ferrite-{core} memories in which each bit was implemented by a doughnut-shaped magnetic flip-flop. :doorstop: n.
Used to describe equipment that is non-functional and halfway expected to remain so, especially obsolete equipment kept around for political reasons or ostensibly as a backup.
When we get another Wyse-50 in here, that ADM 3 will turn into a doorstop." Compare {boat anchor}. :dot file: [UNIX] n.
A file which is not visible by default to normal directory-browsing tools (on UNIX, files named with a leading dot are, by convention, not normally presented in directory listings).
Using both the CTRL and META keys.
The command to burn all LEDs is double bucky F." This term originated on the Stanford extended-ASCII keyboard, and was later taken up by users of the {space-cadet keyboard} at MIT.
A typical MIT comment was that the Stanford {bucky bits} (control and meta shifting keys) were nice, but there weren't enough of them; you could type only 512 different characters on a Stanford keyboard.
It was half-seriously suggested that the extra shifting keys be implemented as pedals; typing on such a keyboard would be very much like playing a full pipe organ.
Used to describe married couples in which both partners work for Digital Equipment Corporation. :doubled sig: [USENET] n.
A {sig block} that has been included twice in a {USENET} article or, less commonly, in an electronic mail message.
An article or message with a doubled sig can be caused by improperly configured software.
More often, however, it reveals the author's lack of experience in electronic communication.
See {BIFF}, {pseudo}. :down: 1. adj.
The up escalator is down" is considered a humorous thing to say, and "The elevator is down" always means "The elevator isn't working" and never refers to what floor the elevator is on.
With respect to computers, this usage has passed into the mainstream; the extension to other kinds of machine is still hackish.
To stop functioning; usually said of the {system}.
The message from the {console} that every hacker hates to hear from the operator is "The system will go down in 5 minutes".
3. `take down', `bring down' vt. To deactivate purposely, usually for repair work or {PM}.
I'm taking the system down to work on that bug in the tape drive.
Occasionally one hears the word `down' by itself used as a verb in this vt. sense.
Space-to-earth transmission is always download and the reverse upload regardless of the relative size of the computers involved.
So far the in-space machines have invariably been smaller; thus the upload/download distinction has been reversed from its usual sense. :DP: /D-P/ n.
Listed here because, according to hackers, use of the term marks one immediately as a {suit}.
Common abbrev for {Dissociated Press}. :DPB: /d*-pib'/ [from the PDP-10 instruction set] vt. To plop something down in the middle.
DPB yourself into that couch there.
This usage has been kept alive by the Common LISP function of the same name. :DPer: /dee-pee-er/ n.
Hackers are absolutely amazed that {suit}s use this term self-referentially. "*Computers* process data, not people!
See {DP}. :dragon: n. [MIT] A program similar to a {daemon}, except that it is not invoked at all, but is instead used by the system to perform various secondary tasks.
Usage: rare outside MIT --- under UNIX and most other OSes this would be called a `background demon' or {daemon}.
The best-known UNIX example of a dragon is `cron(1)'.
At SAIL, they called this sort of thing a `phantom'. :Dragon Book: n.
The classic text `Compilers: Principles, Techniques and Tools', by Alfred V.
Aho, Ravi Sethi, and Jeffrey D. Ullman (Addison-Wesley 1986; ISBN 0-201-10088-6), so called because of the cover design featuring a dragon labeled `complexity of compiler design' and a knight bearing the lance `LALR parser generator' among his other trappings.
This one is more specifically known as the `Red Dragon Book' (1986); an earlier edition, sans Sethi and titled `Principles Of Compiler Design' (Alfred V.
See also {{book titles}}. :drain: [IBM] v.
Syn. for {flush} (sense 2).
Has a connotation of finality about it; one speaks of draining a device before taking it offline. :dread high-bit disease: n.
A condition endemic to PRIME (a.k.a. PR1ME) minicomputers that results in all the characters having their high (0x80) bit ON rather than OFF.
This of course makes transporting files to other systems much more difficult, not to mention talking to true 8-bit devices.
See {meta bit}. A few other machines have exhibited similar brain damage. :DRECNET: /drek'net/ [from Yiddish/German `dreck', meaning dirt] n.
Deliberate distortion of DECNET, a networking protocol used in the {VMS} community.
So called because DEC helped write the Ethernet specification and then (either stupidly or as a malignant customer-control tactic) violated that spec in the design of DRECNET in a way that made it incompatible.
See also {connector conspiracy}. :driver: n.
The {main loop} of an event-processing program; the code that gets commands and dispatches them for execution. 2. [techspeak] In `device driver', code designed to handle a particular peripheral device such as a magnetic disk or tape unit. 3.
In the TeX world and the computerized typesetting world in general, `driver' also means a program that translates some device-independent or other common format to something a real device can actually understand. :droid: n.
The implication is that the rules and official procedures constitute software that the droid is executing.
This becomes a problem when the software has not been properly debugged. The term `droid mentality' is also used to describe the mindset behind this behavior.
Compare {suit}, {marketroid}; see {-oid}. :drool-proof paper: n.
Documentation that has been obsessively {dumbed down}, to the point where only a {cretin} could bear to read it, is said to have succumbed to the `drool-proof paper syndrome' or to have been `written on drool-proof paper'.
For example, this is an actual quote from Apple's LaserWriter manual: "Do not expose your LaserWriter to open fire or flame." :drop on the floor: vt. To react to an error condition by silently discarding messages or other valuable data.
The gateway ran out of memory, so it just started dropping packets on the floor.
Also frequently used of faulty mail and netnews relay sites that lose messages.
See also {black hole}, {bit bucket}. :drop-ins: [prob. by analogy with {drop-outs}] n.
Spurious characters appearing on a terminal or console as a result of line noise or a system malfunction of some sort.
Esp. used when these are interspersed with one's own typed input.
A variety of `power glitch' (see {glitch}); momentary 0 voltage on the electrical mains.
Missing characters in typed input due to software malfunction or system saturation (this can happen under UNIX when a bad connection to a modem swamps the processor with spurious character interrupts).
Mental glitches; used as a way of describing those occasions when the mind just seems to shut down for a couple of beats.
See {glitch}, {fried}. :drugged: adj. (also `on drugs') 1.
Conspicuously stupid, heading toward {brain-damaged}.
Often accompanied by a pantomime of toking a joint (but see {appendix B}).
Of hardware, very slow relative to normal performance. :drum: adj,n.
Ancient techspeak term referring to slow, cylindrical magnetic media which were once state-of-the-art mass-storage devices.
Under BSD UNIX the disk partition used for swapping is still called `/dev/drum'; this has led to considerable humor and not a few straight-faced but utterly bogus `explanations' getting foisted on {newbie}s.
See also "{The Story of Mel, a Real Programmer}" in {appendix A}. :drunk mouse syndrome: (also `mouse on drugs') n.
A malady exhibited by the mouse pointing device of some computers.
The typical symptom is for the mouse cursor on the screen to move in random directions and not in sync with the motion of the actual mouse.
Can usually be corrected by unplugging the mouse and plugging it back again.
Another recommended fix for optical mice is to rotate your mouse pad 90 degrees. At Xerox PARC in the 1970s, most people kept a can of copier cleaner (isopropyl alcohol) at their desks.
Finally, the mouse was declared `alcoholic' and sent to the clinic to be dried out in a CFC ultrasonic bath. :Duff's device: n.
C's default {fall through} in case statements has long been its most controversial single feature; Duff observed that "This code forms some sort of argument in that debate, but I'm not sure whether it's for or against." :dumb terminal: n.
A terminal which is one step above a {glass tty}, having a minimally-addressable cursor but no on-screen editing or other features which are claimed by a {smart terminal}.
Once upon a time, when glass ttys were common and addressable cursors were something special, what is now called a dumb terminal could pass for a smart terminal. :dumbass attack: /duhm'as *-tak'/ [Purdue] n.
Notional cause of a novice's mistake made by the experienced, especially one made while running as {root} under UNIX, e.g., typing `rm -r *' or `mkfs' on a mounted file system.
Compare {adger}. :dumbed down: adj.
Simplified, with a strong connotation of *over*simplified.
Often, a {marketroid} will insist that the interfaces and documentation of software be dumbed down after the designer has burned untold gallons of midnight oil making it smart.
In {elder days}, debugging was generally done by `groveling over' a dump (see {grovel}); increasing use of high-level languages and interactive debuggers has made this uncommon, and the term `dump' now has a faintly archaic flavor.
This usage is typical only at large timesharing installations. :dumpster diving: /dump'-ster di:'-ving/ n.
The practice of sifting refuse from an office or technical installation to extract confidential data, especially security-compromising information (`dumpster' is an Americanism for what is elsewhere called a `skip').
Back in AT&T's monopoly days, before paper shredders became common office equipment, phone phreaks (see {phreaking}) used to organize regular dumpster runs against phone company plants and offices.
Discarded and damaged copies of AT&T internal manuals taught them much.
The technique is still rumored to be a favorite of crackers operating against careless targets.
Software that is supposed to detect and delete duplicates of a message that may have reached the FidoNet system via different routes. :dup loop: /d[y]oop loop/ (also `dupe loop') [FidoNet] n.
An incorrectly configured system or network gateway may propagate duplicate messages on one or more {echo}es, with different identification information that renders {dup killer}s ineffective.
Old software (especially applications) which one is obliged to remain compatible with (or to maintain).
The term implies that the software in question is a holdover from card-punch days.
Used esp. when referring to old scientific and {number-crunching} software, much of which was written in FORTRAN and very poorly documented but is believed to be too expensive to replace.
See {fossil}. :DWIM: /dwim/ [acronym, `Do What I Mean'] 1. adj.
Able to guess, sometimes even correctly, the result intended when bogus input was provided.
The BBNLISP/INTERLISP function that attempted to accomplish this feat by correcting many of the more common errors.
This led a number of victims of DWIM to claim the acronym stood for `Damn Warren's Infernal Machine!'. In one notorious incident, Warren added a DWIM feature to the command interpreter used at Xerox PARC.
It then started to delete all the files on the disk!
Back when proofs of program correctness were in vogue, there were also jokes about `DWIMC' (Do What I Mean, Correctly).
A related term, more often seen as a verb, is DTRT (Do The Right Thing); see {Right Thing}. :dynner: /din'r/ 32 bits, by analogy with {nybble} and {{byte}}.
Usage: rare and extremely silly.
See also {playte}, {tayste}, {crumb}. = E = ===== :earthquake: [IBM] n.
The ultimate real-world shock test for computer hardware.
A message hidden in the object code of a program as a joke, intended to be found by persons disassembling or browsing the code.
A message, graphic, or sound effect emitted by a program (or, on a PC, the BIOS ROM) in response to some undocumented set of commands or keystrokes, intended as a joke or to display program credits.
One well-known early Easter egg found in a couple of OSes caused them to respond to the command `make love' with `not war?'.
Many personal computers have much more elaborate eggs hidden in ROM, including lists of the developers' names, political exhortations, snatches of music, and (in one case) graphics images of the entire development team. :Easter egging: [IBM] n.
The act of replacing unrelated parts more or less at random in hopes that a malfunction will go away.
Hackers consider this the normal operating mode of {field circus} techs and do not love them for it.
Compare {shotgun debugging}. :eat flaming death: imp.
Used in humorously overblown expressions of hostility.
Eat flaming death, {{EBCDIC}} users!" :EBCDIC:: /eb's*-dik/, /eb'see`dik/, or /eb'k*-dik/ [abbreviation, Extended Binary Coded Decimal Interchange Code] n.
An alleged character set used on IBM {dinosaur}s.
IBM adapted EBCDIC from {{punched card}} code in the early 1960s and promulgated it as a customer-control tactic (see {connector conspiracy}), spurning the already established ASCII standard.
Today, IBM claims to be an open-systems company, but IBM's own description of the EBCDIC variants and how to convert between them is still internally classified top-secret, burn-before-reading.
Hackers blanch at the very *name* of EBCDIC and consider it a manifestation of purest {evil}.
See also {fear and loathing}. :echo: [FidoNet] n.
A {topic group} on {FidoNet}'s echomail system.
Compare {newsgroup}. :eighty-column mind: [IBM] n.
The sort said to be possessed by persons for whom the transition from {punched card} to tape was traumatic (nobody has dared tell them about disks yet).
It is said that these people, including (according to an old joke) the founder of IBM, will be buried `face down, 9-edge first' (the 9-edge being the bottom of the card).
See {IBM}, {fear and loathing}, {card walloper}. :El Camino Bignum: /el' k*-mee'noh big'nuhm/ n.
The road mundanely called El Camino Real, a road through the San Francisco peninsula that originally extended all the way down to Mexico City and many portions of which are still intact.
Navigation on the San Francisco peninsula is usually done relative to El Camino Real, which defines {logical} north and south even though it isn't really north-south many places.
El Camino Real runs right past Stanford University and so is familiar to hackers. The Spanish word `real' (which has two syllables: /ray-ahl'/) means `royal'; El Camino Real is `the royal road'.
The heroic age of hackerdom (roughly, pre-1980); the era of the {PDP-10}, {TECO}, {{ITS}}, and the ARPANET.
This term has been rather consciously adopted from J.
Tolkien's fantasy epic `The Lord of the Rings'.
Compare {Iron Age}; see also {elvish}. :elegant: [from mathematical usage] adj.
Combining simplicity, power, and a certain ineffable grace of design.
Higher praise than `clever', `winning', or even {cuspy}. :elephantine: adj.
Used of programs or systems that are both conspicuous {hog}s (owing perhaps to poor design founded on {brute force and ignorance}) and exceedingly {hairy} in source form.
An elephantine program may be functional and even friendly, but (as in the old joke about being in bed with an elephant) it's tough to have around all the same (and, like a pachyderm, difficult to maintain).
In extreme cases, hackers have been known to make trumpeting sounds or perform expressive proboscatory mime at the mention of the offending program.
Compare `has the elephant nature' and the somewhat more pejorative {monstrosity}.
See also {second-system effect} and {baroque}. :elevator controller: n.
Another archetypal dumb embedded-systems application, like {toaster} (which superseded it).
During one period (1983--84) in the deliberations of ANSI X3J11 (the C standardization committee) this was the canonical example of a really stupid, memory-limited computation environment.
You can't require `printf(3)' to be part of the default runtime library --- what if you're targeting an elevator controller?
Elevator controllers became important rhetorical weapons on both sides of several {holy wars}. :ELIZA effect: /*-li:'z* *-fekt'/ [AI community] n.
The tendency of humans to attach associations to terms from prior experience. For example, there is nothing magic about the symbol `+' that makes it well-suited to indicate addition; it's just that people associate it with addition.
It was so convincing, however, that there are many anecdotes about people becoming very emotionally caught up in dealing with ELIZA.
All this was due to people's tendency to attach to words meanings which the computer never put there.
The ELIZA effect is a {Good Thing} when writing a programming language, but it can blind you to serious shortcomings when analyzing an Artificial Intelligence system.
Compare {ad-hockery}; see also {AI-complete}. :elvish: n.
The Tengwar of Feanor, a table of letterforms resembling the beautiful Celtic half-uncial hand of the `Book of Kells'.
Invented and described by J.
Tolkien in `The Lord of The Rings' as an orthography for his fictional `elvish' languages, this system (which is both visually and phonetically elegant) has long fascinated hackers (who tend to be interested by artificial languages in general).
It is traditional for graphics printers, plotters, window systems, and the like to support a Feanorian typeface as one of their demo items.
By extension, any odd or unreadable typeface produced by a graphics device.
The typeface mundanely called `B"ocklin', an art-decoish display font. :EMACS: /ee'maks/ [from Editing MACroS] n.
The ne plus ultra of hacker editors, a programmable text editor with an entire LISP system inside it.
It was originally written by Richard Stallman in {TECO} under {{ITS}} at the MIT AI lab; AI Memo 554 described it as "an advanced, self-documenting, customizable, extensible real-time display editor".
It has since been reimplemented any number of times, by various hackers, and versions exist which run under most major operating systems.
Perhaps the most widely used version, also written by Stallman and now called "{GNU} EMACS" or {GNUMACS}, runs principally under UNIX.
It includes facilities to run compilation subprocesses and send and receive mail; many hackers spend up to 80% of their {tube time} inside it.
Other variants include {GOSMACS}, CCA EMACS, UniPress EMACS, Montgomery EMACS, jove, epsilon, and MicroEMACS. Some EMACS versions running under window managers iconify as an overflowing kitchen sink, perhaps to suggest the one feature the editor does not (yet) include.
Indeed, some hackers find EMACS too heavyweight and {baroque} for their taste, and expand the name as `Escape Meta Alt Control Shift' to spoof its heavy reliance on keystrokes decorated with {bucky bits}.
Other spoof expansions include `Eight Megabytes And Constantly Swapping', `Eventually `malloc()'s All Computer Storage', and `EMACS Makes A Computer Slow' (see {{recursive acronym}}).
See also {vi}. :email: /ee'mayl/ 1. n.
Electronic mail automatically passed through computer networks and/or via modems over common-carrier lines.
2. vt. To send electronic mail. Oddly enough, the word `emailed' is actually listed in the OED; it means "embossed (with a raised pattern) or arranged in a net work". A use from 1480 is given.
The word is derived from French `emmailleure', network. :emoticon: /ee-moh'ti-kon/ n.
An ASCII glyph used to indicate an emotional state in email or news.
On {USENET}, `smiley' is often used as a generic term synonymous with {emoticon}, as well as specifically for the happy-face emoticon. It appears that the emoticon was invented by one Scott Fahlman on the CMU {bboard} systems around 1980.
More than one per paragraph is a fairly sure sign that you've gone over the line. :empire: n.
Any of a family of military simulations derived from a game written by Peter Langston many years ago.
There are five or six multi-player variants of varying degrees of sophistication, and one single-player version implemented for both UNIX and VMS; the latter is even available as MS-DOS freeware.
All are notoriously addictive. :engine: n.
A piece of hardware that encapsulates some function but can't be used without some kind of {front end}.
Today we have, especially, `print engine': the guts of a laser printer. 2.
This sense had not been completely eclipsed by the modern connotation of power-transducing machinery in Charles Babbage's time, which explains why he named the stored-program computer that he designed in 1844 the `Analytical Engine'. :English: 1. n.,obs.
The source code for a program, which may be in any language, as opposed to the linkable or executable binary produced from it by a compiler.
The idea behind the term is that to a real hacker, a program written in his favorite programming language is at least as readable as English.
Usage: used mostly by old-time hackers, though recognizable in context.
The official name of the database language used by the Pick Operating System, actually a sort of crufty, brain-damaged SQL with delusions of grandeur.
The name permits {marketroid}s to say "Yes, and you can program our computers in English!" to ignorant {suit}s without quite running afoul of the truth-in-advertising laws. :enhancement: n. {Marketroid}-speak for a bug {fix}.
This abuse of language is a popular and time-tested way to turn incompetence into increased revenue.
Compare {ping}, {finger}, and the usage of `FOO?' listed under {talk mode}. :EOF: /E-O-F/ [abbreviation, `End Of File'] n.
1. [techspeak] Refers esp. to whatever {out-of-band} value is returned by C's sequential character-input functions (and their equivalents in other environments) when end of file has been reached.
This value is -1 under C libraries postdating V6 UNIX, but was originally 0.
2. [UNIX] The keyboard character (usually control-D, the ASCII EOT (End Of Transmission) character) which is mapped by the terminal driver into an end-of-file condition.
Syn. for {newline}, derived perhaps from the original CDC6600 Pascal.
Now rare, but widely recognized and occasionally used for brevity.
Used in the example entry under {BNF}.
See also {EOF}. :EOU: /E-O-U/ n.
The mnemonic of a mythical ASCII control character (End Of User) that could make an ASR-33 Teletype explode on receipt.
This parodied the numerous obscure delimiter and control characters left in ASCII from the days when it was associated more with wire-service teletypes than computers (e.g., FS, GS, RS, US, EM, SUB, ETX, and esp.
The time and date corresponding to 0 in an operating system's clock and timestamp values.
Under most UNIX versions the epoch is 00:00:00 GMT, January 1, 1970; under VMS, it's 00:00:00 GMT of November 17, 1858 (base date of the U.S.
The 1-tick-per-second clock of UNIX is good only until January 18, 2038, assuming at least some software continues to consider it signed and that word lengths don't increase by then.
See also {wall time}. :epsilon: [see {delta}] 1. n.
A small quantity of anything.
Very small, negligible; less than {marginal}.
We can get this feature for epsilon cost." 3. `within epsilon of': close enough to be indistinguishable for all practical purposes.
This is even closer than being `within delta of'.
That's not what I asked for, but it's within epsilon of what I wanted.
Alternatively, it may mean not close enough, but very little is required to get it there: "My program is within epsilon of working." :epsilon squared: n.
A quantity even smaller than {epsilon}, as small in comparison to epsilon as epsilon is to something normal; completely negligible.
If you buy a supercomputer for a million dollars, the cost of the thousand-dollar terminal to go with it is {epsilon}, and the cost of the ten-dollar cable to connect them is epsilon squared.
Compare {lost in the underflow}, {lost in the noise}. :era, the: Syn. {epoch}.
Webster's Unabridged makes these words almost synonymous, but `era' usually connotes a span of time rather than a point in time.
The {epoch} usage is recommended. :Eric Conspiracy: n.
A shadowy group of mustachioed hackers named Eric first pinpointed as a sinister conspiracy by an infamous talk.bizarre posting ca. 1986; this was doubtless influenced by the numerous `Eric' jokes in the Monty Python oeuvre.
There do indeed seem to be considerably more mustachioed Erics in hackerdom than the frequency of these three traits can account for unless they are correlated in some arcane way.
The Greek goddess of Chaos, Discord, Confusion, and Things You Know Not Of; her name was latinized to Discordia and she was worshiped by that name in Rome.
See {Discordianism}, {Church of the SubGenius}. :erotics: /ee-ro'tiks/ n. [Helsinki University of Technology, Finland] n.
English-language university slang for electronics. Often used by hackers in Helsinki, maybe because good electronics excites them and makes them warm. :error 33: [XEROX PARC] n.
Predicating one research effort upon the success of another.
Allowing your own research effort to be placed on the critical path of some other project (be it a research effort or not). :essentials: n.
Things necessary to maintain a productive and secure hacking environment.
As used by hackers, implies that some system, program, person, or institution is sufficiently maldesigned as to be not worth the bother of dealing with.
Unlike the adjectives in the {cretinous}/{losing}/{brain-damaged} series, `evil' does not imply incompetence or bad design, but rather a set of goals or design criteria fatally incompatible with the speaker's.
This is more an esthetic and engineering judgment than a moral one in the mainstream sense.
See {{quantifiers}}. :examining the entrails: n.
The process of {grovel}ling through a core dump or hex image in the attempt to discover the bug that brought a program or system down.
The reference is to divination from the entrails of a sacrified animal.
Compare {runes}, {incantation}, {black art}, {desk check}. :EXCH: /eks'ch*/ or /eksch/ vt. To exchange two things, each for the other; to swap places.
If you point to two people sitting down and say "Exch!", you are asking them to trade places.
See {bang}, {shriek}, {{ASCII}}. :EXE: /eks'ee/ or /eek'see/ or /E-X-E/ n.
Some operating systems (notably MS-DOS, VMS, and TWENEX) use the extension .EXE to mark such files.
This usage is also occasionally found among UNIX programmers even though UNIX executables don't have any required suffix. :exec: /eg-zek'/ vt.,n.
1. [UNIX: from `execute'] Synonym for {chain}, derives from the `exec(2)' call.
The command interpreter for an {OS} (see {shell}); term esp. used around mainframes, and prob. derived from UNIVAC's archaic EXEC 2 and EXEC 8 operating systems. 3.
At IBM and VM/CMS shops, the equivalent of a shell command file (among VM/CMS users). The mainstream `exec' as an abbreviation for (human) executive is *not* used.
To a hacker, an `exec' is a always a program, never a person. :exercise, left as an: [from technical books] Used to complete a proof when one doesn't mind a {handwave}, or to avoid one entirely.
The complete phrase is: "The proof (or the rest) is left as an exercise for the reader.
This comment *has* occasionally been attached to unsolved research problems by authors possessed of either an evil sense of humor or a vast faith in the capabilities of their audiences. :eyeball search: n.
To look for something in a mass of code or data with one's own native optical sensors, as opposed to using some sort of pattern matching software like {grep} or any other automated search tool.
Also called a {vgrep}; compare {vdiff}, {desk check}. = F = ===== :fab: /fab/ [from `fabricate'] v.
To produce chips from a design that may have been created by someone at another company. Fabbing chips based on the designs of others is the activity of a {silicon foundry}.
To a hacker, `fab' is practically never short for `fabulous'.
2. `fab line': the production system (lithography, diffusion, etching, etc.) for chips at a chip manufacturer.
Different `fab lines' are run with different process parameters, die sizes, or technologies, or simply to provide more manufacturing volume. :face time: n.
Time spent interacting with somebody face-to-face (as opposed to via electronic links).
Oh, yeah, I spent some face time with him at the last Usenix." :factor: n.
See {coefficient of X}. :fall over: [IBM] vi.
Yet another synonym for {crash} or {lose}. `Fall over hard' equates to {crash and burn}. :fall through: v. (n. `fallthrough', var. `fall-through') 1.
To exit a loop by exhaustion, i.e., by having fulfilled its exit condition rather than via a break or exception condition that exits from the middle of it.
This usage appears to be *really* old, dating from the 1940s and 1950s.
To fail a test that would have passed control to a subroutine or some other distant portion of code.
In C, `fall-through' occurs when the flow of execution in a switch statement reaches a `case' label other than by jumping there from the switch header, passing a point where one would normally expect to find a `break'.
On low-end personal machines without an MMU, this can corrupt the OS itself, causing massive lossage. Other frenetic dances such as the rhumba, cha-cha, or watusi, may be substituted.
See {aliasing bug}, {precedence lossage}, {smash the stack}, {memory leak}, {memory smash}, {overrun screw}, {core}. :FAQ list: /F-A-Q list/ or /fak list/ [USENET] n.
A compendium of accumulated lore, posted periodically to high-volume newsgroups in an attempt to forestall Frequently Asked Questions.
Several extant FAQ lists do (or should) make reference to the Jargon File (the on-line version of this lexicon). :FAQL: /fa'kl/ n.
Syn. {FAQ list}. :farming: [Adelaide University, Australia] n.
What the heads of a disk drive are said to do when they plow little furrows in the magnetic media.
Typically used as follows: "Oh no, the machine has just crashed; I hope the hard drive hasn't gone {farming} again." :fascist: adj.
Said of a computer system with excessive or annoying security barriers, usage limits, or access policies.
The implication is that said policies are preventing hackers from getting interesting work done.
The variant `fascistic' seems to have been preferred at MIT, poss. by analogy with `touristic' (see {tourist}).
Compare {bondage-and-discipline language}, but that term is global rather than local. :fat electrons: n.
Old-time hacker David Cargill's theory on the causation of computer glitches.
Your typical electric utility draws its line current out of the big generators with a pair of coil taps located near the top of the dynamo.
When the normal tap brushes get dirty, they take them off line to clean up, and use special auxiliary taps on the *bottom* of the coil.
Now, this is a problem, because when they do that they get not ordinary or `thin' electrons, but the fat'n'sloppy electrons that are heavier and so settle to the bottom of the generator.
These flow down ordinary wires just fine, but when they have to turn a sharp corner (as in an integrated-circuit via) they're apt to get stuck. This is what causes computer glitches. [Fascinating.
Obviously, fat electrons must gain mass by {bogon} absorption --- ESR] Compare {bogon}, {magic smoke}. :faulty: adj.
Same denotation as {bletcherous}, {losing}, q.v., but the connotation is much milder. :fd leak: /F-D leek/ n.
A kind of programming bug analogous to a {core leak}, in which a program fails to close file descriptors (`fd's) after file operations are completed, and thus eventually runs out of them.
See {leak}. :fear and loathing: [from Hunter Thompson] n.
A state inspired by the prospect of dealing with certain real-world systems and standards that are totally {brain-damaged} but ubiquitous --- Intel 8086s, or {COBOL}, or {{EBCDIC}}, or any {IBM} machine except the Rios (a.k.a. the RS/6000).
They want PCs to be able to talk to the AI machine.
Fear and loathing time!" :feature: n.
A good property or behavior (as of a program). Whether it was intended or not is immaterial.
An intended property or behavior (as of a program).
Whether it is good or not is immaterial (but if bad, it is also a {misfeature}).
A surprising property or behavior; in particular, one that is purposely inconsistent because it works better that way --- such an inconsistency is therefore a {feature} and not a {bug}.
This kind of feature is sometimes called a {miswart}; see that entry for a classic example.
A property or behavior that is gratuitous or unnecessary, though perhaps also impressive or cute. For example, one feature of Common LISP's `format' function is the ability to print numbers in two different Roman-numeral formats (see {bells, whistles, and gongs}).
A property or behavior that was put in to help someone else but that happens to be in your way.
A bug that has been documented.
To call something a feature sometimes means the author of the program did not consider the particular case, and that the program responded in a way that was unexpected but not strictly incorrect.
A standard joke is that a bug can be turned into a {feature} simply by documenting it (then theoretically no one can complain about it because it's in the manual), or even by simply declaring it to be good.
That's not a bug, that's a feature!" is a common catchphrase.
There is an emergency exit door built around the window behind you, and the route has to be kept clear." A: "Oh.
Then it's a misfeature; they should have increased the spacing between rows here." B: "Yes.
But if they'd increased spacing in only one section it would have been a wart --- they would've had to make nonstandard-length ceiling panels to fit over the displaced seats." A: "A miswart, actually.
If they increased spacing throughout they'd lose several rows and a chunk out of the profit margin.
So unequal spacing would actually be the Right Thing." B: "Indeed." `Undocumented feature' is a common, allegedly humorous euphemism for a {bug}. :feature creature: [poss. fr. slang `creature feature' for a horror movie] n.
One who loves to add features to designs or programs, perhaps at the expense of coherence, concision, or {taste}.
Alternately, a semi-mythical being that induces otherwise rational programmers to perpetrate such crocks.
See also {feeping creaturism}, {creeping featurism}. :feature key: n.
The Macintosh key with the cloverleaf graphic on its keytop; sometimes referred to as `flower', `pretzel', `clover', `propeller', `beanie' (an apparent reference to the major feature of a propeller beanie), {splat}, or the `command key'.
The Mac's equivalent of an {alt} key.
The proliferation of terms for this creature may illustrate one subtle peril of iconic interfaces. Many people have been mystified by the cloverleaf-like symbol that appears on the feature key.
Its oldest name is `cross of St. Hannes', but it occurs in pre-Christian Viking art as a decorative motif.
Throughout Scandinavia today the road agencies use it to mark sites of historical interest.
Many of these are old churches; hence, the Swedish idiom for the symbol is `kyrka', cognate to English `church' and Scots-dialect `kirk' but pronounced /shir'k*/ in modern Swedish.
This is in fact where Apple got the symbol; they give the translation "interesting feature"! :feature shock: [from Alvin Toffler's book title `Future Shock'] n.
A user's (or programmer's!) confusion when confronted with a package that has too many features and poor introductory material. :featurectomy: /fee`ch*r-ek't*-mee/ n.
The act of removing a feature from a program.
Featurectomies come in two flavors, the `righteous' and the `reluctant'.
The soft electronic `bell' sound of a display terminal (except for a VT-52); a beep (in fact, the microcomputer world seems to prefer {beep}).
To cause the display to make a feep sound.
ASR-33s (the original TTYs) do not feep; they have mechanical bells that ring.
The `feeper' on a VT-52 has been compared to the sound of a '52 Chevy stripping its gears.
See also {ding}. :feeper: /fee'pr/ n.
The device in a terminal or workstation (usually a loudspeaker of some kind) that makes the {feep} sound. :feeping creature: [from {feeping creaturism}] n.
An unnecessary feature; a bit of {chrome} that, in the speaker's judgment, is the camel's nose for a whole horde of new features. :feeping creaturism: /fee'ping kree`ch*r-izm/ n.
A deliberate spoonerism for {creeping featurism}, meant to imply that the system or program in question has become a misshapen creature of hacks.
This term isn't really well defined, but it sounds so neat that most hackers have said or heard it.
It is probably reinforced by an image of terminals prowling about in the dark making their customary noises. :feetch feetch: /feech feech/ interj.
If someone tells you about some new improvement to a program, you might respond: "Feetch, feetch!
The meaning of this depends critically on vocal inflection.
With enthusiasm, it means something like "Boy, that's great!
Grudgingly or with obvious doubt, it means "I don't know; it sounds like just one more unnecessary and complicated thing".
With a tone of resignation, it means, "Well, I'd rather keep it simple, but I suppose it has to be done". :fence: n.
A sequence of one or more distinguished ({out-of-band}) characters (or other data items), used to delimit a piece of data intended to be treated as a unit (the computer-science literature calls this a `sentinel').
The NUL (ASCII 0000000) character that terminates strings in C is a fence. Hex FF is also (though slightly less frequently) used this way. See {zigamorph}.
2. [among users of optimizing compilers] Any technique, usually exploiting knowledge about the compiler, that blocks certain optimizations.
Used when explicit mechanisms are not available or are overkill.
Typically a hack: "I call a dummy procedure there to force a flush of the optimizer's register-coloring info" can be expressed by the shorter "That's a fence procedure". :fencepost error: n.
A problem with the discrete equivalent of a boundary condition.
Often exhibited in programs by iterative loops.
From the following problem: "If you build a fence 100 feet long with posts 10 feet apart, how many posts do you need?" Either 9 or 11 is a better answer than the obvious 10.
For example, suppose you have a long list or array of items, and want to process items m through n; how many items are there?
The obvious answer is n - m, but that is off by one; the right answer is n - m + 1.
A program that used the `obvious' formula would have a fencepost error in it.
See also {zeroth} and {off-by-one error}, and note that not all off-by-one errors are fencepost errors.
The game of Musical Chairs involves a catastrophic off-by-one error where N people try to sit in N - 1 chairs, but it's not a fencepost error.
Fencepost errors come from counting things rather than the spaces between them, or vice versa, or by neglecting to consider whether one should count one or both ends of a row.
Occasionally, an error induced by unexpectedly regular spacing of inputs, which can (for instance) screw up your hash table. :fepped out: /fept owt/ adj.
The Symbolics 3600 Lisp Machine has a Front-End Processor called a `FEP' (compare sense 2 of {box}). When the main processor gets {wedged}, the FEP takes control of the keyboard and screen.
Such a machine is said to have `fepped out'. :FidoNet: n.
A worldwide hobbyist network of personal computers which exchange mail, discussion groups, and files.
Founded in 1984 and originally consisting only of IBM PCs and compatibles, FidoNet now includes such diverse machines as Apple ][s, Ataris, Amigas, and UNIX systems.
Though it is much younger than {USENET}, FidoNet is already (in early 1991) a significant fraction of USENET's size at some 8000 systems. :field circus: [a derogatory pun on `field service'] n.
This has many of the implications of {droid}. :Fight-o-net: [FidoNet] n.
Deliberate distortion of {FidoNet}, often applied after a flurry of {flamage} in a particular {echo}, especially the SYSOP echo or Fidonews (see {'Snooze}). :File Attach: [FidoNet] 1. n.
A file sent along with a mail message from one BBS to another.
2. vt. Sending someone a file by using the File Attach option in a BBS mailer. :File Request: [FidoNet] 1. n.
The {FidoNet} equivalent of {FTP}, in which one BBS system automatically dials another and {snarf}s one or more files.
Often abbreviated `FReq'; files are often announced as being "available for FReq" in the same way that files are announced as being "available for/by anonymous FTP" on the Internet.
2. vt. The act of getting a copy of a file by using the File Request option of the BBS mailer. :file signature: n.
A {magic number} sense 3. :filk: /filk/ [from SF fandom, where a typo for `folk' was adopted as a new word] n.,v.
See {double bucky} for an example.
Compare {hing} and {newsfroup}. :film at 11: [MIT: in parody of TV newscasters] 1.
Used in conversation to announce ordinary events, with a sarcastic implication that these events are earth-shattering. "{{ITS}} crashes; film at 11.
Bug found in scheduler; film at 11." 2.
Also widely used outside MIT to indicate that additional information will be available at some future time, *without* the implication of anything particularly ordinary about the referenced event.
For example, "The mail file server died this morning; we found garbage all over the root directory.
Film at 11." would indicate that a major failure had occurred but the people working on it have no additional information about it.
Use of the phrase in this way suggests gently people would appreciate it if users would quit bothering them and wait for the 11:00 news for additional information. :filter: [orig. {{UNIX}}, now also in {{MS-DOS}}] n.
The generalized or `folk' version of {Murphy's Law}, fully named "Finagle's Law of Dynamic Negatives" and usually rendered "Anything that can go wrong, will".
One variant favored among hackers is "The perversity of the Universe tends towards a maximum" (but see also {Hanlon's Razor}).
Good, but not good enough to be {cuspy}.
The word `fine' is used elsewhere, of course, but without the implicit comparison to the higher level implied by {cuspy}. :finger: [WAITS, via BSD UNIX] 1. n.
A program that displays a particular user or all users logged on the system or a remote system.
Typically shows full name, last login time, idle time, terminal line, and terminal location (where applicable).
May also display a {plan file} left by the user.
2. vt. To apply finger to a username.
3. vt. By extension, to check a human's current state by any means.
OK, finger Lisa and see if she's idle.
Any picture (composed of ASCII characters) depicting `the finger'.
Originally a humorous component of one's plan file to deter the curious fingerer (sense 2), it has entered the arsenal of some {flamer}s. :finger-pointing syndrome: n.
All-too-frequent result of bugs, esp. in new or experimental configurations.
The hardware vendor points a finger at the software.
The software vendor points a finger at the hardware.
All the poor users get is the finger. :finn: [IRC] v.
To pull rank on somebody based on the amount of time one has spent on {IRC}.
The term derives from the fact that IRC was originally written in Finland in 1987. :firebottle: n.
A large, primitive, power-hungry active electrical device, similar in function to a FET but constructed out of glass, metal, and vacuum.
Characterized by high cost, low density, low reliability, high-temperature operation, and high power dissipation.
Sometimes mistakenly called a `tube' in the U.S. or a `valve' in England; another hackish term is {glassfet}. :firefighting: n.
What sysadmins have to do to correct sudden operational problems.
Been hacking your new newsreader?
No, a power glitch hosed the network and I spent the whole afternoon fighting fires.
The act of throwing lots of manpower and late nights at a project, esp. to get it out before deadline.
See also {gang bang}, {Mongolian Hordes technique}; however, the term `firefighting' connotes that the effort is going into chasing bugs rather than adding features. :firehose syndrome: n.
In mainstream folklore it is observed that trying to drink from a firehose can be a good way to rip your lips off.
On computer networks, the absence or failure of flow control mechanisms can lead to situations in which the sending system sprays a massive flood of packets at an unfortunate receiving system; more than it can handle.
Compare {overrun}, {buffer overflow}. :firewall code: n.
The code you put in a system (say, a telephone switch) to make sure that the users can't do any damage.
A dedicated gateway machine with special security precautions on it, used to service outside network connections and dial-in lines.
The idea is to protect a cluster of more loosely administered machines hidden behind it from {cracker}s.
The typical firewall is an inexpensive micro-based UNIX box kept clean of critical data, with a bunch of modems and public network ports on it but just one carefully watched connection back to the rest of the cluster.
The special precautions may include threat monitoring, callback, and even a complete {iron box} keyable to particular incoming IDs or activity patterns.
Syn. {flytrap}, {Venus flytrap}. :fireworks mode: n.
The mode a machine is sometimes said to be in when it is performing a {crash and burn} operation. :firmy: /fer'mee/ Syn. {stiffy} (a 3.5-inch floppy disk). :fish: [Adelaide University, Australia] n.
Derived originally from the Monty Python skit in the middle of "The Meaning of Life" entitled "Find the Fish".
A microfiche file cabinet may be referred to as a `fish tank'. :FISH queue: [acronym, by analogy with FIFO (First In, First Out)] n. `First In, Still Here'.
A joking way of pointing out that processing of a particular sequence of events or requests has stopped dead.
Also `FISH mode' and `FISHnet'; the latter may be applied to any network that is running really slowly or exhibiting extreme flakiness. :FITNR: // [Thinking Machines, Inc.] Fixed In the Next Release. A written-only notation attached to bug reports.
Often wishful thinking. :fix: n.,v.
What one does when a problem has been reported too many times to be ignored. :flag: n.
The program status word contains several flag bits.
Used of humans analogously to {bit}.
See also {hidden flag}, {mode bit}. :flag day: n.
A software change that is neither forward- nor backward-compatible, and which is costly to make and costly to reverse.
Can we install that without causing a flag day for all users?
This term has nothing to do with the use of the word {flag} to mean a variable that has two values.
It came into use when a massive change was made to the {{Multics}} timesharing system to convert from the old ASCII code to the new one; this was scheduled for Flag Day (a U.S. holiday), June 14, 1966.
See also {backward combatability}. :flaky: adj. (var sp. `flakey') Subject to frequent {lossage}. This use is of course related to the common slang use of the word to describe a person as eccentric, crazy, or just unreliable.
A system that is flaky is working, sort of --- enough that you are tempted to try to use it --- but fails frequently enough that the odds in favor of finishing what you start are low.
Commonwealth hackish prefers {dodgy} or {wonky}. :flamage: /flay'm*j/ n.
Flaming verbiage, esp. high-noise, low-signal postings to {USENET} or other electronic {fora}. Often in the phrase `the usual flamage'. `Flaming' is the act itself; `flamage' the content; a `flame' is a single flaming message.
See {flame}. :flame: 1. vi.
To post an email message intended to insult and provoke.
To speak incessantly and/or rabidly on some relatively uninteresting subject or with a patently ridiculous attitude.
3. vt. Either of senses 1 or 2, directed with hostility at a particular person or people.
I remember someone picking up on the Human Torch pun, but I don't think `flame on/off' was ever much used at WPI.
The poet Chaucer was also what passed for a wizard hacker in his time; he wrote a treatise on the astrolabe, the most advanced computing device of the day.
In Chaucer's `Troilus and Cressida', Cressida laments her inability to grasp the proof of a particular mathematical theorem; her uncle Pandarus then observes that it's called "the fleminge of wrecches.
This phrase seems to have been intended in context as "that which puts the wretches to flight" but was probably just as ambiguous in Middle English as "the flaming of wretches" would be today.
One suspects that Chaucer would be right at home on USENET. :flame bait: n.
A posting intended to trigger a {flame war}, or one that invites flames in reply. :flame on: vi.,interj.
The punning reference to Marvel Comics's Human Torch is no longer widely recognized.
See {rave}, {burble}. :flame war: n. (var. `flamewar') An acrimonious dispute, especially when conducted on a public electronic forum such as {USENET}. :flamer: n.
Said esp. of obnoxious {USENET} personalities. :flap: vt. 1.
To unload a DECtape (so it goes flap, flap, flap...).
Old-time hackers at MIT tell of the days when the disk was device 0 and {microtape}s were 1, 2,... and attempting to flap device 0 would instead start a motor banging inside a cabinet near the disk.
By extension, to unload any magnetic tape.
Yet another {metasyntactic variable} (see {foo}).
Among those who use it, it is associated with a legend that any program not containing the word `flarp' somewhere will not work.
The legend is discreetly silent on the reliability of programs which *do* contain the magic word. :flat: adj.
Lacking any complex internal structure.
That {bitty box} has only a flat filesystem, not a hierarchical one.
The verb form is {flatten}.
Said of a text file that contains only 7-bit ASCII characters and uses only ASCII-standard control characters (that is, has no embedded codes specific to a particular text formatter or markup language, and no {meta}-characters).
This code flattens an expression with parentheses into an equivalent {canonical} form." :flavor: n.
DDT commands come in two flavors.
These lights come in two flavors, big red ones and small green ones.
The attribute that causes something to be {flavorful}.
Usually used in the phrase "yields additional flavor".
This convention yields additional flavor by allowing one to print text either right-side-up or upside-down." See {vanilla}.
The term for `class' (in the object-oriented sense) in the LISP Machine Flavors system.
Though the Flavors design has been superseded (notably by the Common LISP CLOS facility), the term `flavor' is still used as a general synonym for `class' by some LISP hackers. :flavorful: adj.
Full of {flavor}; esthetically pleasing.
See {random} and {losing} for antonyms.
See also the entries for {taste} and {elegant}. :flippy: /flip'ee/ n.
A single-sided floppy disk altered for double-sided use by addition of a second write-notch, so called because it must be flipped over for the second side to be accessible.
No longer common. :flood: [IRC] v.
To dump large amounts of text onto an {IRC} channel.
This is especially rude when the text is uninteresting and the other users are trying to carry on a serious conversation. :flowchart:: [techspeak] n.
An archaic form of visual control-flow specification employing arrows and `speech balloons' of various shapes.
Hackers never use flowcharts, consider them extremely silly, and associate them with {COBOL} programmers, {card walloper}s, and other lower forms of life.
See also {pdl}, sense 3. :flower key: [Mac users] n.
See {feature key}. :flush: v.
To delete something, usually superfluous, or to abort an operation.
All that nonsense has been flushed.
2. [UNIX/C] To force buffered I/O to disk, as with an `fflush(3)' call. This is *not* an abort or deletion as in sense 1, but a demand for early completion!
To leave at the end of a day's work (as opposed to leaving for a meal).
I'm going to flush now.
To exclude someone from an activity, or to ignore a person. `Flush' was standard ITS terminology for aborting an output operation; one spoke of the text that would have been printed, but was not, as having been flushed.
It is speculated that this term arose from a vivid image of flushing unwanted characters by hosing down the internal output buffer, washing the characters away before they can be printed.
Standard name for any font that is so tiny as to be unreadable (by analogy with such names as `Helvetica 10' for 10-point Helvetica).
Legal boilerplate is usually printed in Flyspeck 3. :flytrap: n.
See {firewall machine}. :FM: n. *Not* `Frequency Modulation' but rather an abbreviation for `Fucking Manual', the back-formation from {RTFM}.
Used to refer to the manual itself in the {RTFM}. "Have you seen the Networking FM lately?" :FOAF: // [USENET] n.
Acronym for `Friend Of A Friend'.
The source of an unverified, possibly untrue story.
Compare {gun}. In aviation, FOD means Foreign Object Damage, e.g., what happens when a jet engine sucks up a rock on the runway or a bird in flight.
Finger of Death is a distressingly apt description of what this does to the engine. :fold case: v.
This term tends to be used more by people who don't mind that their tools smash case.
It also connotes that case is ignored but case distinctions in data processed by the tool in question aren't destroyed. :followup: n.
On USENET, a {posting} generated in response to another posting (as opposed to a {reply}, which goes by email rather than being broadcast).
Followups include the ID of the {parent message} in their headers; smart news-readers can use this information to present USENET news in `conversation' sequence rather than order-of-arrival.
See {thread}. :fontology: [XEROX PARC] n.
The body of knowledge dealing with the construction and use of new fonts (e.g. for window systems and typesetting software).
It has been said that fontology recapitulates file-ogeny. [Unfortunately, this reference to the embryological dictum that "Ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny" is not merely a joke.
On the Macintosh, for example, System 7 has to go through contortions to compensate for an earlier design error that created a whole different set of abstractions for fonts parallel to `files' and `folders' --- ESR] :foo: /foo/ 1. interj.
Used very generally as a sample name for absolutely anything, esp. programs and files (esp. scratch files).
First on the standard list of {metasyntactic variable}s used in syntax examples.
See also {bar}, {baz}, {qux}, {quux}, {corge}, {grault}, {garply}, {waldo}, {fred}, {plugh}, {xyzzy}, {thud}. The etymology of hackish `foo' is obscure.
In the 1938 cartoon "Daffy Doc", a very early version of Daffy Duck holds up a sign saying "SILENCE IS FOO!"; oddly, this seems to refer to some approving or positive affirmative use of foo.
Crumb' but the style of the art suggests this may well have been a sort-of pseudonym for noted weird-comix artist Robert Crumb.
The title FOO was featured in large letters on the front cover.
Our first obligation is to keep the foo counters turning. For more about the legendary foo counters, see {TMRC}.
Another common {metasyntactic variable}; see {foo}. Hackers do *not* generally use this to mean {FUBAR} in either the slang or jargon sense. :fool: n.
Indeed, in hackish experience many fools are capable of reasoning all too effectively in executing their errors.
See also {cretin}, {loser}, {fool file, the}. :fool file, the: [USENET] n.
A notional repository of all the most dramatically and abysmally stupid utterances ever.
More than one USENETter has achieved an unwanted notoriety by being quoted in this way. :Foonly: n.
The {PDP-10} successor that was to have been built by the Super Foonly project at the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Laboratory along with a new operating system.
The intention was to leapfrog from the old DEC timesharing system SAIL was running to a new generation, bypassing TENEX which at that time was the ARPANET standard.
ARPA funding for both the Super Foonly and the new operating system was cut in 1974.
Most of the design team went to DEC and contributed greatly to the design of the PDP-10 model KL10. 2.
The name of the company formed by Dave Poole, one of the principal Super Foonly designers, and one of hackerdom's more colorful personalities.
Many people remember the parrot which sat on Poole's shoulder and was a regular companion.
Any of the machines built by Poole's company.
The first was the F-1 (a.k.a. Super Foonly), which was the computational engine used to create the graphics in the movie "TRON".
The F-1 was the fastest PDP-10 ever built, but only one was ever made.
The effort drained Foonly of its financial resources, and they turned towards building smaller, slower, and much less expensive machines.
Unfortunately, these ran not the popular {TOPS-20} but a TENEX variant called Foonex; this seriously limited their market.
Also, the machines shipped were actually wire-wrapped engineering prototypes requiring individual attention from more than usually competent site personnel, and thus had significant reliability problems.
Poole's legendary temper and unwillingness to suffer fools gladly did not help matters.
By the time of the Jupiter project cancellation in 1983 Foonly's proposal to build another F-1 was eclipsed by the {Mars}, and the company never quite recovered.
See the {Mars} entry for the continuation and moral of this story. :footprint: n.
The floor or desk area taken up by a piece of hardware.
2. [IBM] The audit trail (if any) left by a crashed program (often in plural, `footprints').
See also {toeprint}. :for free: adj.
Said of a capability of a programming language or hardware equipment that is available by its design without needing cleverness to implement: "In APL, we get the matrix operations for free.
And owing to the way revisions are stored in this system, you get revision trees for free.
Used to describe a {spiffy} product whose affordability shames other comparable products, or (more often) used sarcastically to describe {spiffy} but very overpriced products.
Describes a program with a limited interface, deliberately limited capabilities, non-orthogonality, inability to compose primitives, or any other limitation designed to not `confuse' a na"ive user.
This places an upper bound on how far that user can go before the program begins to get in the way of the task instead of helping accomplish it.
Used in reference to Macintosh software which doesn't provide obvious capabilities because it is thought that the poor lusers might not be able to handle them.
The max function takes 42 arguments, for arbitrary values of 42.
There are 69 ways to leave your lover, for 69 = 50.
This is especially likely when the speaker has uttered a random number and realizes that it was not recognized as such, but even `non-random' numbers are occasionally used in this fashion.
It had a control structure FOR VALUES OF X = 3, 7, 99 DO ... that would repeat the indicated instructions for each value in the list (unlike the usual FOR that only works for arithmetic sequences of values).
MAD is long extinct, but similar for-constructs still flourish (e.g. in UNIX's shell languages). :fora: pl.n.
Plural of {forum}. :foreground: [UNIX] vt. To foreground a task is to bring it to the top of one's {stack} for immediate processing, and hackers often use it in this sense for non-computer tasks.
Nowadays this term is primarily associated with {{UNIX}}, but it appears first to have been used in this sense on OS/360.
Normally, there is only one foreground task per terminal (or terminal window); having multiple processes simultaneously reading the keyboard is a good way to {lose}. :fork bomb: [UNIX] n.
A particular species of {wabbit} that can be written in one line of C (`main() {for(;;)fork();}') or shell (`$0 & $0 &') on any UNIX system, or occasionally created by an egregious coding bug.
A fork bomb process `explodes' by recursively spawning copies of itself (using the UNIX system call `fork(2)').
Eventually it eats all the process table entries and effectively wedges the system.
Fortunately, fork bombs are relatively easy to spot and kill, so creating one deliberately seldom accomplishes more than to bring the just wrath of the gods down upon the perpetrator.
See also {logic bomb}. :forked: [UNIX; prob. influenced by a mainstream expletive] adj. Terminally slow, or dead.
Originated when one system was slowed to a snail's pace by an inadvertent {fork bomb}. :Fortrash: /for'trash/ n.
Hackerism for the FORTRAN language, referring to its primitive design, gross and irregular syntax, limited control constructs, and slippery, exception-filled semantics. :fortune cookie: [WAITS, via UNIX] n.
A random quote, item of trivia, joke, or maxim printed to the user's tty at login time or (less commonly) at logout time.
Items from this lexicon have often been used as fortune cookies.
See {cookie file}. :forum: n. [USENET, GEnie, CI$; pl. `fora' or `forums'] Any discussion group accessible through a dial-in {BBS}, a {mailing list}, or a {newsgroup} (see {network, the}).
A forum functions much like a bulletin board; users submit {posting}s for all to read and discussion ensues.
Contrast real-time chat via {talk mode} or point-to-point personal {email}. :fossil: n.
In software, a misfeature that becomes understandable only in historical context, as a remnant of times past retained so as not to break compatibility.
Example: the retention of octal as default base for string escapes in {C}, in spite of the better match of hexadecimal to ASCII and modern byte-addressable architectures.
More restrictively, a feature with past but no present utility. Example: the force-all-caps (LCASE) bits in the V7 and {BSD} UNIX tty driver, designed for use with monocase terminals.
In a perversion of the usual backward-compatibility goal, this functionality has actually been expanded and renamed in some later {USG UNIX} releases as the IUCLC and OLCUC bits.
The FOSSIL (Fido/Opus/Seadog Standard Interface Level) driver specification for serial-port access to replace the {brain-dead} routines in the IBM PC ROMs.
Since the FOSSIL specification allows additional functionality to be hooked in, drivers that use the {hook} but do not provide serial-port access themselves are named with a modifier, as in `video fossil'. :four-color glossies: 1.
2. [rare] Applied by extension to manual pages that don't contain enough information to diagnose why the program doesn't produce the expected or desired output. :fragile: adj.
The personal name most frequently used as a {metasyntactic variable} (see {foo}).
Allegedly popular because it's easy for a non-touch-typist to type on a standard QWERTY keyboard.
Random Loser', this name has no positive or negative loading (but see {Mbogo, Dr. Fred}).
An acronym for `Flipping Ridiculous Electronic Device'; other F-verbs may be substituted for `flipping'. :frednet: /fred'net/ n.
Used to refer to some {random} and uncommon protocol encountered on a network.
We're implementing bridging in our router to solve the frednet problem." :freeware: n.
Free software, often written by enthusiasts and distributed by users' groups, or via electronic mail, local bulletin boards, {USENET}, or other electronic media.
At one time, `freeware' was a trademark of Andrew Fluegelman, the author of the well-known MS-DOS comm program PC-TALK III.
It wasn't enforced after his mysterious disappearance and presumed death in 1984.
To lock an evolving software distribution or document against changes so it can be released with some hope of stability. Carries the strong implication that the item in question will `unfreeze' at some future date.
OK, fix that bug and we'll freeze for release." There are more specific constructions on this.
However, this term is also used metaphorically.) Compare {frotzed}.
Said particularly of those who continue to work in such a state.
Often used as an explanation or excuse.
Yeah, I know that fix destroyed the file system, but I was fried when I put it in." Esp. common in conjunction with `brain': "My brain is fried today, I'm very short on sleep." :friode: /fri:'ohd/ [TMRC] n.
A reversible (that is, fused or blown) diode.
Compare {fried}; see also {SED}, {LER}. :fritterware: n.
An excess of capability that serves no productive end.
2. vt. Abbreviated form of {frobnicate}.
3. [from the {MUD} world] A command on some MUDs that changes a player's experience level (this can be used to make wizards); also, to request {wizard} privileges on the `professional courtesy' grounds that one is a wizard elsewhere.
The command is actually `frobnicate' but is universally abbreviated to the shorter form. :frobnicate: /frob'ni-kayt/ vt. [Poss. derived from {frobnitz}, and usually abbreviated to {frob}, but `frobnicate' is recognized as the official full form.] To manipulate or adjust, to tweak.
One frequently frobs bits or other 2-state devices.
Thus: "Please frob the light switch" (that is, flip it), but also "Stop frobbing that clasp; you'll break it". One also sees the construction `to frob a frob'.
The variant `frobnosticate' has been recently reported. :frobnitz: /frob'nits/, pl. `frobnitzem' /frob'nit-zm/ or `frobni' /frob'ni:/ [TMRC] n.
An unspecified physical object, a widget.
Also refers to electronic black boxes.
This rare form is usually abbreviated to `frotz', or more commonly to {frob}. Also used are `frobnule' (/frob'n[y]ool/) and `frobule' (/frob'yool/).
Starting perhaps in 1979, `frobozz' /fr*-boz'/ (plural: `frobbotzim' /fr*-bot'zm/) has also become very popular, largely through its exposure as a name via {Zork}.
These can also be applied to nonphysical objects, such as data structures. Pete Samson, compiler of the {TMRC} lexicon, adds, "Under the TMRC [railroad] layout were many storage boxes, managed (in 1958) by David R.
Several had fanciful designations written on them, such as `Frobnitz Coil Oil'.
Perhaps DRS intended Frobnitz to be a proper name, but the name was quickly taken for the thing".
This was almost certainly the origin of the term. :frog: alt. `phrog' 1. interj.
Term of disgust (we seem to have a lot of them).
Used as a name for just about anything.
Of people, somewhere in between a turkey and a toad.
Similar to `bagbiting' (see {bagbiter}), but milder.
This froggy program is taking forever to run!" :frogging: [University of Waterloo] v.
Partial corruption of a text file or input stream by some bug or consistent glitch, as opposed to random events like line noise or media failures.
Might occur, for example, if one bit of each incoming character on a tty were stuck, so that some characters were correct and others were not. See {terminak} for a historical example.
By extension, accidental display of text in a mode where the output device emits special symbols or mnemonics rather than conventional ASCII.
Often happens, for example, when using a terminal or comm program on a device like an IBM PC with a special `high-half' character set and with the bit-parity assumption wrong.
A hacker sufficiently familiar with ASCII bit patterns might be able to read the display anyway. :front end: n.
An intermediary computer that does set-up and filtering for another (usually more powerful but less friendly) machine (a `back end').
What you're talking to when you have a conversation with someone who is making replies without paying attention.
Look at the dancing elephants!
Uh-huh." "Do you know what I just said?
Sorry, you were talking to the front end.
Software that provides an interface to another program `behind' it, which may not be as user-friendly.
Probably from analogy with hardware front-ends (see sense 1) that interfaced with mainframes. :frotz: /frots/ 1. n.
2. `mumble frotz': An interjection of very mild disgust. :frotzed: /frotst/ adj. {down} because of hardware problems.
A machine that is merely frotzed may be fixable without replacing parts, but a fried machine is more seriously damaged. :frowney: n. (alt. `frowney face') See {emoticon}. :fry: 1. vi.
Said especially of smoke-producing hardware failures.
More generally, to become non-working.
Usage: never said of software, only of hardware and humans.
2. vt. To cause to fail; to {roach}, {toast}, or {hose} a piece of hardware.
Never used of software or humans, but compare {fried}. :FTP: /F-T-P/, *not* /fit'ip/ 1. [techspeak] n.
The File Transfer Protocol for transmitting files between systems on the Internet.
2. vt. To {beam} a file using the File Transfer Protocol.
Sometimes used as a generic even for file transfers not using {FTP}.
Lemme get a copy of `Wuthering Heights' ftp'd from uunet." :FUBAR: n.
The Failed UniBus Address Register in a VAX.
A good example of how jargon can occasionally be snuck past the {suit}s; see {foobar}, and {foo} for a fuller etymology. :fuck me harder: excl.
Sometimes uttered in response to egregious misbehavior, esp. in software, and esp. of misbehaviors which seem unfairly persistent (as though designed in by the imp of the perverse).
Fuck me with a piledriver and 16 feet of curare-tipped wrought-iron fence *and no lubricants*!
The phrase is sometimes heard abbreviated `FMH' in polite company. [This entry is an extreme example of the hackish habit of coining elaborate and evocative terms for lossage.
As it reflects a live usage recognizably peculiar to the hacker culture, we feel it is in the hackish spirit of truthfulness and opposition to all forms of censorship to record it here. --ESR & GLS] :FUD: /fuhd/ n.
Defined by Gene Amdahl after he left IBM to found his own company: "FUD is the fear, uncertainty, and doubt that IBM sales people instill in the minds of potential customers who might be considering [Amdahl] products.
The idea, of course, was to persuade them to go with safe IBM gear rather than with competitors' equipment.
This was traditionally done by promising that Good Things would happen to people who stuck with IBM, but Dark Shadows loomed over the future of competitors' equipment or software.
See {IBM}. :FUD wars: /fuhd worz/ n. [from {FUD}] Political posturing engaged in by hardware and software vendors ostensibly committed to standardization but actually willing to fragment the market to protect their own shares.
The UNIX International vs. OSF conflict is but one outstanding example. :fudge: 1. vt. To perform in an incomplete but marginally acceptable way, particularly with respect to the writing of a program.
I didn't feel like going through that pain and suffering, so I fudged it --- I'll fix it later.
The resulting code. :fudge factor: n.
A value or parameter that is varied in an ad hoc way to produce the desired result.
A fudge factor, on the other hand, can often be tweaked in more than one direction.
See also {coefficient of X}. :fuel up: vi.
To eat or drink hurriedly in order to get back to hacking.
See also {{oriental food}}. :fuggly: /fuhg'lee/ adj.
Emphatic form of {funky}; funky + ugly).
Unusually for hacker jargon, this may actually derive from black street-jive.
To say it properly, the first syllable should be growled rather than spoken.
Man, the {{ASCII}}-to-{{EBCDIC}} code in that printer driver is *fuggly*.
See also {wonky}. :fum: [XEROX PARC] n.
At PARC, often the third of the standard {metasyntactic variable}s (after {foo} and {bar}.
Competes with {baz}, which is more common outside PARC. :funky: adj.
Said of something that functions, but in a slightly strange, klugey way.
It does the job and would be difficult to change, so its obvious non-optimality is left alone.
Often used to describe interfaces.
The more bugs something has that nobody has bothered to fix because workarounds are easier, the funkier it is. {TECO} and UUCP are funky.
The Intel i860's exception handling is extraordinarily funky.
Most standards acquire funkiness as they age.
The new mailer is installed, but is still somewhat funky; if it bounces your mail for no reason, try resubmitting it." "This UART is pretty funky.
The data ready line is active-high in interrupt mode and active-low in DMA mode.
See {fuggly}. :funny money: n.
Notional `dollar' units of computing time and/or storage handed to students at the beginning of a computer course; also called `play money' or `purple money' (in implicit opposition to real or `green' money).
In New Zealand and Germany the odd usage `paper money' has been recorded; in Gremany, the particularly amusing synonym `transfer rouble' commemmorates the worthlessness of the ex-USSR's currency.
When your funny money ran out, your account froze and you needed to go to a professor to get more.
Fortunately, the plunging cost of timesharing cycles has made this less common.
The amounts allocated were almost invariably too small, even for the non-hackers who wanted to slide by with minimum work.
In extreme cases, the practice led to small-scale black markets in bootlegged computer accounts.
By extension, phantom money or quantity tickets of any kind used as a resource-allocation hack within a system.
Antonym: `real money'. :fuzzball: [TCP/IP hackers] n.
A DEC LSI-11 running a particular suite of homebrewed software written by Dave Mills and assorted co-conspirators, used in the early 1980s for Internet protocol testbedding and experimentation.
These were used as NSFnet backbone sites in its early 56KB-line days; a few are still active on the Internet as of early 1991, doing odd jobs such as network time service. = G = ===== :G: [SI] pref.,suff.
See {{quantifiers}}. :gabriel: /gay'bree-*l/ [for Dick Gabriel, SAIL LISP hacker and volleyball fanatic] n.
An unnecessary (in the opinion of the opponent) stalling tactic, e.g., tying one's shoelaces or combing one's hair repeatedly, asking the time, etc. Also used to refer to the perpetrator of such tactics.
Also, `pulling a Gabriel', `Gabriel mode'. :gag: vi.
Equivalent to {choke}, but connotes more disgust.
Hey, this is FORTRAN code.
No wonder the C compiler gagged.
See also {barf}. :gang bang: n.
The use of large numbers of loosely coupled programmers in an attempt to wedge a great many features into a product in a short time.
Though there have been memorable gang bangs (e.g., that over-the-weekend assembler port mentioned in Steven Levy's `Hackers'), most are perpetrated by large companies trying to meet deadlines and produce enormous buggy masses of code entirely lacking in {orthogonal}ity.
When market-driven managers make a list of all the features the competition has and assign one programmer to implement each, they often miss the importance of maintaining a coherent design.
See also {firefighting}, {Mongolian Hordes technique}, {Conway's Law}. :garbage collect: vi. (also `garbage collection', n.) See {GC}. :garply: /gar'plee/ [Stanford] n.
Another metasyntactic variable (see {foo}); once popular among SAIL hackers. :gas: [as in `gas chamber'] 1. interj.
A term of disgust and hatred, implying that gas should be dispensed in generous quantities, thereby exterminating the source of irritation.
Some loser just reloaded the system for no reason!
A suggestion that someone or something ought to be flushed out of mercy.
The system's getting {wedged} every few minutes. Gas!
3. vt. To {flush} (sense 1).
You should gas that old crufty software.
Dead space in nonsequentially organized files that was occupied by data that has been deleted; the compression operation that removes it is called `degassing' (by analogy, perhaps, with the use of the same term in vacuum technology).
Empty space on a disk that has been clandestinely allocated against future need. :gaseous: adj.
I think I'll GC the top of my desk today.
When said of files, this is equivalent to {GFR}.
2. vt. To recycle, reclaim, or put to another use.
Implementations of the LISP language usually use garbage collection. In jargon, the full phrase is sometimes heard but the {abbrev} is more frequently used because it is shorter.
A {quick-and-dirty} {clone} of System/360 DOS that emerged from GE around 1970; originally called GECOS (the General Electric Comprehensive Operating System).
All this might be of zero interest, except for two facts: (1) The GCOS people won the political war, and this led in the orphaning and eventual death of Honeywell {{Multics}}, and (2) GECOS/GCOS left one permanent mark on UNIX.
GCOS later played a major role in keeping Honeywell a dismal also-ran in the mainframe market, and was itself ditched for UNIX in the late 1980s when Honeywell retired its aging {big iron} designs. :GECOS:: /jee'kohs/ n.
See {{GCOS}}. :gedanken: /g*-don'kn/ adj.
Ungrounded; impractical; not well-thought-out; untried; untested. `Gedanken' is a German word for `thought'.
A thought experiment is one you carry out in your head.
Such a project is usually perpetrated by people who aren't very good hackers or find programming distasteful or are just in a hurry.
A `gedanken thesis' is usually marked by an obvious lack of intuition about what is programmable and what is not, and about what does and does not constitute a clear specification of an algorithm.
See also {AI-complete}, {DWIM}. :geef: v. [ostensibly from `gefingerpoken'] vt. Syn. {mung}.
See also {blinkenlights}. :geek out: vi.
To temporarily enter techno-nerd mode while in a non-hackish context, for example at parties held near computer equipment.
Especially used when you need to do something highly technical and don't have time to explain: "Pardon me while I geek out for a moment.
See {computer geek}. :gen: /jen/ n.,v.
Short for {generate}, used frequently in both spoken and written contexts. :gender mender: n.
A cable connector shell with either two male or two female connectors on it, used to correct the mismatches that result when some {loser} didn't understand the RS232C specification and the distinction between DTE and DCE.
Pejorative name for some versions of the {GNU} project {copyleft} or General Public License (GPL), which requires that any tools or {app}s incorporating copylefted code must be source-distributed on the same counter-commercial terms as GNU stuff.
Thus it is alleged that the copyleft `infects' software generated with GNU tools, which may in turn infect other software that reuses any of its code.
This term retains its mechanistic connotations (though often humorously) when used of human behavior.
The canonical form of a gensym is `Gnnnn' where nnnn represents a number; any LISP hacker would recognize G0093 (for example) as a gensym.
A freshly generated data structure with a gensymmed name.
These are useful for storing or uniquely identifying crufties (see {cruft}). :Get a life!: imp.
Hacker-standard way of suggesting that the person to whom you are speaking has succumbed to terminal geekdom (see {computer geek}).
Often heard on {USENET}, esp. as a way of suggesting that the target is taking some obscure issue of {theology} too seriously.
This exhortation was popularized by William Shatner on a "Saturday Night Live" episode in a speech that ended "Get a *life*!", but some respondents believe it to have been in use before then.
It was certainly in wide use among hackers for at least five years before achieving mainstream currency around early 1992. :Get a real computer!: imp.
Typical hacker response to news that somebody is having trouble getting work done on a system that (a) is single-tasking, (b) has no hard disk, or (c) has an address space smaller than 4 megabytes.
See {essentials}, {bitty box}, and {toy}. :GFR: /G-F-R/ vt. [ITS] From `Grim File Reaper', an ITS and Lisp Machine utility.
To remove a file or files according to some program-automated or semi-automatic manual procedure, especially one designed to reclaim mass storage space or reduce name-space clutter (the original GFR actually moved files to tape).
Often generalized to pieces of data below file level.
I used to have his phone number, but I guess I {GFR}ed it.
Compare {GC}, which discards only provably worthless stuff. :gig: /jig/ or /gig/ [SI] n.
See {{quantifiers}}. :giga-: /ji'ga/ or /gi'ga/ [SI] pref.
See {{quantifiers}}. :GIGO: /gi:'goh/ [acronym] 1. `Garbage In, Garbage Out' --- usually said in response to {luser}s who complain that a program didn't complain about faulty data.
Also commonly used to describe failures in human decision making due to faulty, incomplete, or imprecise data.
2. `Garbage In, Gospel Out': this more recent expansion is a sardonic comment on the tendency human beings have to put excessive trust in `computerized' data. :gilley: [USENET] n.
The unit of analogical bogosity.
According to its originator, the standard for one gilley was "the act of bogotoficiously comparing the shutting down of 1000 machines for a day with the killing of one person".
The milligilley has been found to suffice for most normal conversational exchanges. :gillion: /gil'y*n/ or /jil'y*n/ [formed from {giga-} by analogy with mega/million and tera/trillion] n.
Same as an American billion or a British `milliard'.
How one pronounces this depends on whether one speaks {giga-} with a hard or soft `g'. :GIPS: /gips/ or /jips/ [analogy with {MIPS}] n. Giga-Instructions per Second (also possibly `Gillions of Instructions per Second'; see {gillion}).
In 1991, this is used of only a handful of highly parallel machines, but this is expected to change.
Compare {KIPS}. :glark: /glark/ vt. To figure something out from context.
The System III manuals are pretty poor, but you can generally glark the meaning from context.
It is conjectured that hackish usage mutated the verb to `glark' because {glork} was already an established jargon term.
Compare {grok}, {zen}. :glass: [IBM] n.
Synonym for {silicon}. :glass tty: /glas T-T-Y/ or /glas ti'tee/ n.
An example is the early `dumb' version of Lear-Siegler ADM 3 (without cursor control).
See {tube}, {tty}; compare {dumb terminal}, {smart terminal}.
See "{TV Typewriters}" (appendix A) for an interesting true story about a glass tty. :glassfet: /glas'fet/ [by analogy with MOSFET, the acronym for `Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor Field-Effect Transistor'] n.
Syn. {firebottle}, a humorous way to refer to a vacuum tube. :glitch: /glich/ [from German `glitschen' to slip, via Yiddish `glitshen', to slide or skid] 1. n.
A sudden interruption in electric service, sanity, continuity, or program function. Sometimes recoverable.
An interruption in electric service is specifically called a `power glitch' (also {power hit}).
3. vt. [Stanford] To scroll a display screen, esp. several lines at a time. {{WAITS}} terminals used to do this in order to avoid continuous scrolling, which is distracting to the eye.
Same as {magic cookie}, sense 2. All these uses of `glitch' derive from the specific technical meaning the term has in the electronic hardware world, where it is now techspeak.
A glitch can occur when the inputs of a circuit change, and the outputs change to some {random} value for some very brief time before they settle down to the correct value.
To expand special characters in a wildcarded name, or the act of so doing (the action is also called `globbing').
The UNIX conventions for filename wildcarding have become sufficiently pervasive that many hackers use some of them in written English, especially in email or news on technical topics.
I don't read talk.politics.*" (any of the talk.politics subgroups on {USENET}).
Other examples are given under the entry for {X}.
Compare {regexp}. Historical note: The jargon usage derives from `glob', the name of a subprogram that expanded wildcards in archaic pre-Bourne versions of the UNIX shell. :glork: /glork/ 1. interj.
Term of mild surprise, usually tinged with outrage, as when one attempts to save the results of 2 hours of editing and finds that the system has just crashed.
3. vt. Similar to {glitch}, but usually used reflexively.
My program just glorked itself.
See also {glark}. :glue: n.
Generic term for any interface logic or protocol that connects two component blocks.
For example, {Blue Glue} is IBM's SNA protocol, and hardware designers call anything used to connect large VLSI's or circuit blocks `glue logic'. :gnarly: /nar'lee/ adj.
Both {obscure} and {hairy} in the sense of complex. "{Yow!} --- the tuned assembler implementation of BitBlt is really gnarly!
From a similar but less specific usage in surfer slang. :GNU: /gnoo/, *not* /noo/ 1. [acronym: `GNU's Not UNIX!', see {{recursive acronym}}] A UNIX-workalike development effort of the Free Software Foundation headed by Richard Stallman <rms@gnu.ai.mit.edu>.
GNU EMACS and the GNU C compiler, two tools designed for this project, have become very popular in hackerdom and elsewhere.
The GNU project was designed partly to proselytize for RMS's position that information is community property and all software source should be shared.
One of its slogans is "Help stamp out software hoarding!
See {EMACS}, {copyleft}, {General Public Virus}.
To {die}, terminate, or fail, esp. irreversibly.
In hacker parlance, this is used of machines only, human death being considered somewhat too serious a matter to employ jargon-jokes about.
To go completely quiescent; said of machines undergoing controlled shutdown.
You can suffer file damage if you shut down UNIX but power off before the system has gone flatline.
Of a video tube, to fail by losing vertical scan, so all one sees is a bright horizontal line bisecting the screen. :go root: [UNIX] vi.
To temporarily enter {root mode} in order to perform a privileged operation.
This use is deprecated in Australia, where v. `root' refers to animal sex. :go-faster stripes: [UK] Syn. {chrome}. :gobble: vt. To consume or to obtain.
A network packet that in theory is a broadcast to every machine in the universe.
The typical case of this is an IP datagram whose destination IP address is [255.255.255.255].
Fortunately, few gateways are foolish enough to attempt to implement this!
A network packet of maximum size.
An IP Godzillagram has 65,536 octets. :golden: adj. [prob. from folklore's `golden egg'] When used to describe a magnetic medium (e.g., `golden disk', `golden tape'), describes one containing a tested, up-to-spec, ready-to-ship software version.
Compare {platinum-iridium}. :golf-ball printer: n.
This was the technology that enabled APL to use a non-EBCDIC, non-ASCII, and in fact completely non-standard character set.
This put it 10 years ahead of its time --- where it stayed, firmly rooted, for the next 20, until character displays gave way to programmable bit-mapped devices with the flexibility to support other character sets. :gonk: /gonk/ vt.,n.
To prevaricate or to embellish the truth beyond any reasonable recognition.
It is alleged that in German the term is (mythically) `gonken'; in Spanish the verb becomes `gonkar'.
That story you just told me is a bunch of gonk.
In German, for example, "Du gonkst mir" (You're pulling my leg).
2. [British] To grab some sleep at an odd time; compare {gronk out}. :gonkulator: /gon'kyoo-lay-tr/ [from the old "Hogan's Heroes" TV series] n.
A pretentious piece of equipment that actually serves no useful purpose.
Usually used to describe one's least favorite piece of computer hardware.
See {gonk}. :gonzo: /gon'zoh/ [from Hunter S.
Overwhelming; outrageous; over the top; very large, esp. used of collections of source code, source files, or individual functions.
Has some of the connotations of {moby} and {hairy}, but without the implication of obscurity or complexity. :Good Thing: n.,adj.
Often capitalized; always pronounced as if capitalized.
Self-evidently wonderful to anyone in a position to notice: "The Trailblazer's 19.2Kbaud PEP mode with on-the-fly Lempel-Ziv compression is a Good Thing for sites relaying netnews.
Something that can't possibly have any ill side-effects and may save considerable grief later: "Removing the self-modifying code from that shared library would be a Good Thing.
When said of software tools or libraries, as in "YACC is a Good Thing", specifically connotes that the thing has drastically reduced a programmer's work load.
Oppose {Bad Thing}. :gorilla arm: n.
The side-effect that destroyed touch-screens as a mainstream input technology despite a promising start in the early 1980s.
It seems the designers of all those {spiffy} touch-menu systems failed to notice that humans aren't designed to hold their arms in front of their faces making small motions.
After more than a very few selections, the arm begins to feel sore, cramped, and oversized; hence `gorilla arm'.
The first {EMACS}-in-C implementation, predating but now largely eclipsed by {GNUMACS}.
Originally freeware; a commercial version is now modestly popular as `UniPress EMACS'.
The author (James Gosling) went on to invent {NeWS}. :Gosperism: /gos'p*r-izm/ A hack, invention, or saying by arch-hacker R.
This notion merits its own term because there are so many of them.
Many of the entries in {HAKMEM} are Gosperisms; see also {life}. :gotcha: n.
A {misfeature} of a system, especially a programming language or environment, that tends to breed bugs or mistakes because it behaves in an unexpected way.
For example, a classic gotcha in {C} is the fact that `if (a=b) {code;}' is syntactically valid and sometimes even correct.
It puts the value of `b' into `a' and then executes `code' if `a' is non-zero.
What the programmer probably meant was `if (a==b) {code;}', which executes `code' if `a' and `b' are equal. :GPL: /G-P-L/ n.
Abbrev. for `General Public License' in widespread use; see {copyleft}. :GPV: /G-P-V/ n.
Abbrev. for {General Public Virus} in widespread use. :grault: /grawlt/ n.
See {corge}. :gray goo: n.
A hypothetical substance composed of {sagan}s of sub-micron-sized self-replicating robots programmed to make copies of themselves out of whatever is available.
The image that goes with the term is one of the entire biosphere of Earth being eventually converted to robot goo.
This is the simplest of the {{nanotechnology}} disaster scenarios, easily refuted by arguments from energy requirements and elemental abundances.
Compare {blue goo}. :Great Renaming: n.
The {flag day} on which all of the non-local groups on the {USENET} had their names changed from the net.- format to the current multiple-hierarchies scheme. :Great Runes: n.
Uppercase-only text or display messages.
Some archaic operating systems still emit these.
See also {runes}, {smash case}, {fold case}. Decades ago, back in the days when it was the sole supplier of long-distance hardcopy transmittal devices, the Teletype Corporation was faced with a major design choice.
To shorten code lengths and cut complexity in the printing mechanism, it had been decided that teletypes would use a monocase font, either ALL UPPER or all lower.
The question was, which one to choose.
The 1988 Internet {worm} perpetrated by {RTM}.
This is a play on Tolkien (compare {elvish}, {Elder Days}).
In the fantasy history of his Middle Earth books, there were dragons powerful enough to lay waste to entire regions; two of these (Scatha and Glaurung) were known as "the Great Worms".
This usage expresses the connotation that the RTM hack was a sort of devastating watershed event in hackish history; certainly it did more to make non-hackers nervous about the Internet than anything before or since. :great-wall: [from SF fandom] vi.,n.
A mass expedition to an oriental restaurant, esp. one where food is served family-style and shared.
There is a common heuristic about the amount of food to order, expressed as "Get N - 1 entrees"; the value of N, which is the number of people in the group, can be inferred from context (see {N}).
See {{oriental food}}, {ravs}, {stir-fried random}. :Green Book: n.
One of the three standard {PostScript} references: `PostScript Language Program Design', bylined `Adobe Systems' (Addison-Wesley, 1988; QA76.73.P67P66 ISBN; 0-201-14396-8); see also {Red Book}, {Blue Book}, and the {White Book} (sense 2)).
Informal name for one of the three standard references on SmallTalk: `Smalltalk-80: Bits of History, Words of Advice', by Glenn Krasner (Addison-Wesley, 1983; QA76.8.S635S58; ISBN 0-201-11669-3) (this, too, is associated with blue and red books).
The `X/Open Compatibility Guide'. Defines an international standard {{UNIX}} environment that is a proper superset of POSIX/SVID; also includes descriptions of a standard utility toolkit, systems administrations features, and the like.
This grimoire is taken with particular seriousness in Europe.
The IEEE 1003.1 POSIX Operating Systems Interface standard has been dubbed "The Ugly Green Book". 5.
Any of the 1992 standards which will be issued by the CCITT's tenth plenary assembly.
Until now, these have changed color each review cycle (1984 was {Red Book}, 1988 {Blue Book}); however, it is rumored that this convention is going to be dropped before 1992.
These include, among other things, the X.400 email standard and the Group 1 through 4 fax standards.
See also {{book titles}}. :green bytes: n. (also `green words') 1.
Meta-information embedded in a file, such as the length of the file or its name; as opposed to keeping such information in a separate description file or record.
The term comes from an IBM user's group meeting (ca. 1962) at which these two approaches were being debated and the diagram of the file on the blackboard had the `green bytes' drawn in green.
By extension, the non-data bits in any self-describing format.
A GIF file contains, among other things, green bytes describing the packing method for the image.
Compare {out-of-band}, {zigamorph}, {fence} (sense 1). :green card: n. [after the `IBM System/360 Reference Data' card] This is used for any summary of an assembly language, even if the color is not green.
Less frequently used now because of the decrease in the use of assembly language.
I'll go get my green card so I can check the addressing mode for that instruction." Some green cards are actually booklets. The original green card became a yellow card when the System/370 was introduced, and later a yellow booklet.
An anecdote from IBM refers to a scene that took place in a programmers' terminal room at Yorktown in 1978.
A luser overheard one of the programmers ask another "Do you have a green card?
The other grunted and passed the first a thick yellow booklet.
At this point the luser turned a delicate shade of olive and rapidly left the room, never to return.
See also {card}. :green lightning: [IBM] n.
Apparently random flashing streaks on the face of 3278-9 terminals while a new symbol set is being downloaded.
This hardware bug was left deliberately unfixed, as some genius within IBM suggested it would let the user know that `something is happening'.
Later microprocessor-driven IBM color graphics displays were actually *programmed* to produce green lightning!
2. [proposed] Any bug perverted into an alleged feature by adroit rationalization or marketing.
Motorola calls the CISC cruft in the 88000 architecture `compatibility logic', but I call it green lightning".
See also {feature}. :green machine: n.
A computer or peripheral device that has been designed and built to military specifications for field equipment (that is, to withstand mechanical shock, extremes of temperature and humidity, and so forth).
Comes from the olive-drab `uniform' paint used for military equipment. :Green's Theorem: [TMRC] prov.
By extension, to look for something by pattern.
Grep the bulletin board for the system backup schedule, would you?" See also {vgrep}. :grind: vt. 1. [MIT and Berkeley] To format code, especially LISP code, by indenting lines so that it looks pretty.
This usage was associated with the MacLISP community and is now rare; {prettyprint} was and is the generic term for such operations.
2. [UNIX] To generate the formatted version of a document from the nroff, troff, TeX, or Scribe source.
The BSD program `vgrind(1)' grinds code for printing on a Versatec bitmapped printer.
To run seemingly interminably, esp. (but not necessarily) if performing some tedious and inherently useless task.
Similar to {crunch} or {grovel}.
Grinding has a connotation of using a lot of CPU time, but it is possible to grind a disk, network, etc. See also {hog}.
To make the whole system slow.
Troff really grinds a PDP-11.
Roughly, "Isn't the machine slow today!" :grind crank: n.
A mythical accessory to a terminal.
A crank on the side of a monitor, which when operated makes a zizzing noise and causes the computer to run faster.
Usually one does not refer to a grind crank out loud, but merely makes the appropriate gesture and noise.
See {grind} and {wugga wugga}. Historical note: At least one real machine actually had a grind crank --- the R1, a research machine built toward the end of the days of the great vacuum tube computers, in 1959.
R1 (also known as `The Rice Institute Computer' (TRIC) and later as `The Rice University Computer' (TRUC)) had a single-step/free-run switch for use when debugging programs.
A wry (and thoroughly unoffical) name for IBM's internal VNET system, deriving from its common use by IBMers to voice pointed criticism of IBM management that would be taboo in more formal channels. :gritch: /grich/ 1. n.
A complaint (often caused by a {glitch}). 2. vi.
A synonym for {glitch} (as verb or noun). :grok: /grok/, var. /grohk/ [from the novel `Stranger in a Strange Land', by Robert A.
Heinlein, where it is a Martian word meaning literally `to drink' and metaphorically `to be one with'] vt. 1.
To understand, usually in a global sense.
Connotes intimate and exhaustive knowledge.
Contrast {zen}, similar supernal understanding as a single brief flash.
Used of programs, may connote merely sufficient understanding.
Almost all C compilers grok the `void' type these days." :gronk: /gronk/ [popularized by Johnny Hart's comic strip "B.C." but the word apparently predates that] vt. 1.
To clear the state of a wedged device and restart it.
More severe than `to {frob}'.
2. [TMRC] To cut, sever, smash, or similarly disable.
The sound made by many 3.5-inch diskette drives.
In particular, the microfloppies on a Commodore Amiga go "grink, gronk". :gronk out: vi.
Of people, to go home and go to sleep.
I guess I'll gronk out now; see you all tomorrow." :gronked: adj.
The teletype scanner was gronked, so we took the system down.
Of people, the condition of feeling very tired or (less commonly) sick.
I've been chasing that bug for 17 hours now and I am thoroughly gronked!
Compare {broken}, which means about the same as {gronk} used of hardware, but connotes depression or mental/emotional problems in people. :grovel: vi.
To work interminably and without apparent progress. Often used transitively with `over' or `through'.
The file scavenger has been groveling through the file directories for 10 minutes now.
To examine minutely or in complete detail. "The compiler grovels over the entire source program before beginning to translate it.
I grovelled through all the documentation, but I still couldn't find the command I wanted." :grunge: /gruhnj/ n.
That which is grungy, or that which makes it so.
2. [Cambridge] Code which is inaccessible due to changes in other parts of the program.
The preferred term in North America is {dead code}. :gubbish: /guhb'*sh/ [a portmanteau of `garbage' and `rubbish'?] n.
What is all this gubbish?
The opposite portmanteau `rubbage' is also reported. :guiltware: /gilt'weir/ n.
Some idiot left a background process running soaking up half the cycles, so I gunned it.
Compare {can}. :gunch: /guhnch/ [TMRC] vt. To push, prod, or poke at a device that has almost produced the desired result.
Implies a threat to {mung}. :gurfle: /ger'fl/ interj.
An expression of shocked disbelief.
He said we have to recode this thing in FORTRAN by next week. Gurfle!
Compare {weeble}. :guru: n. [UNIX] An expert.
Implies not only {wizard} skill but also a history of being a knowledge resource for others.
Less often, used (with a qualifier) for other experts on other systems, as in `VMS guru'.
See {source of all good bits}. :guru meditation: n.
Amiga equivalent of `panic' in UNIX (sometimes just called a `guru' or `guru event').
When the system crashes, a cryptic message "GURU MEDITATION #XXXXXXXX.YYYYYYYY" appears, indicating what the problem was.
An Amiga guru can figure things out from the numbers.
Generally a {guru} event must be followed by a {Vulcan nerve pinch}. This term is (no surprise) an in-joke from the earliest days of the Amiga.
This position resembled that of a meditating guru.
Sadly, the joke was removed in AmigaOS 2.04. :gweep: /gweep/ [WPI] 1. v.
To {hack}, usually at night.
I'm going to go gweep for a while.
See you in the morning" "I gweep from 8pm till 3am during the week.
One who habitually gweeps in sense 1; a {hacker}.
He's a hard-core gweep, mumbles code in his sleep." = H = ===== :h: [from SF fandom] infix.
A method of `marking' common words, i.e., calling attention to the fact that they are being used in a nonstandard, ironic, or humorous way.
Indeed, the entirety of hacker culture is often perceived as ha-ha-only-serious by hackers themselves; to take it either too lightly or too seriously marks a person as an outsider, a {wannabee}, or in {larval stage}.
For further enlightenment on this subject, consult any Zen master.
See also {{Humor, Hacker}}, and {AI koans}. :hack: 1. n.
Originally, a quick job that produces what is needed, but not well.
An incredibly good, and perhaps very time-consuming, piece of work that produces exactly what is needed. 3. vt. To bear emotionally or physically.
I can't hack this heat!
4. vt. To work on something (typically a program).
In an immediate sense: "What are you doing?
I'm hacking TECO." In a general (time-extended) sense: "What do you do around here?" "I hack TECO.
More generally, "I hack `foo'" is roughly equivalent to "`foo' is my major interest (or project)".
5. vt. To pull a prank on.
See sense 2 and {hacker} (sense 5).
To interact with a computer in a playful and exploratory rather than goal-directed way.
To explore the basements, roof ledges, and steam tunnels of a large, institutional building, to the dismay of Physical Plant workers and (since this is usually performed at educational institutions) the Campus Police.
This activity has been found to be eerily similar to playing adventure games such as Dungeons and Dragons and {Zork}. See also {vadding}. Constructions on this term abound.
They include `happy hacking' (a farewell), `how's hacking?' (a friendly greeting among hackers) and `hack, hack' (a fairly content-free but friendly comment, often used as a temporary farewell).
For more on this totipotent term see "{The Meaning of `Hack'}".
See also {neat hack}, {real hack}. :hack attack: [poss. by analogy with `Big Mac Attack' from ads for the McDonald's fast-food chain; the variant `big hack attack' is reported] n.
Nearly synonymous with {hacking run}, though the latter more strongly implies an all-nighter. :hack mode: n.
What one is in when hacking, of course.
More specifically, a Zen-like state of total focus on The Problem that may be achieved when one is hacking (this is why every good hacker is part mystic).
Ability to enter such concentration at will correlates strongly with wizardliness; it is one of the most important skills learned during {larval stage}.
Sometimes amplified as `deep hack mode'. Being yanked out of hack mode (see {priority interrupt}) may be experienced as a physical shock, and the sensation of being in it is more than a little habituating.
The intensity of this experience is probably by itself sufficient explanation for the existence of hackers, and explains why many resist being promoted out of positions where they can code.
See also {cyberspace} (sense 2). Some aspects of hackish etiquette will appear quite odd to an observer unaware of the high value placed on hack mode.
For example, if someone appears at your door, it is perfectly okay to hold up a hand (without turning one's eyes away from the screen) to avoid being interrupted.
One may read, type, and interact with the computer for quite some time before further acknowledging the other's presence (of course, he or she is reciprocally free to leave without a word).
The understanding is that you might be in {hack mode} with a lot of delicate {state} (sense 2) in your head, and you dare not {swap} that context out until you have reached a good point to pause.
Contrast this with {hack on}. To `hack up on' implies a {quick-and-dirty} modification to an existing system.
Contrast {hacked up}; compare {kluge up}, {monkey up}, {cruft together}. :hack value: n.
Often adduced as the reason or motivation for expending effort toward a seemingly useless goal, the point being that the accomplished goal is a hack.
For example, MacLISP had features for reading and printing Roman numerals, which were installed purely for hack value.
See {display hack} for one method of computing hack value, but this cannot really be explained.
As a great artist once said of jazz: "If you hafta ask, you ain't never goin' to find out." :hack-and-slay: v. (also `hack-and-slash') 1.
To play a {MUD} or go mudding, especially with the intention of {berserking} for pleasure.
Usually more mudding than work was done in these sessions. :hacked off: [analogous to `pissed off'] adj.
Said of system administrators who have become annoyed, upset, or touchy owing to suspicions that their sites have been or are going to be victimized by crackers, or used for inappropriate, technically illegal, or even overtly criminal activities.
For example, having unreadable files in your home directory called `worm', `lockpick', or `goroot' would probably be an effective (as well as impressively obvious and stupid) way to get your sysadmin hacked off at you. :hacked up: adj.
Sufficiently patched, kluged, and tweaked that the surgical scars are beginning to crowd out normal tissue (compare {critical mass}).
Not all programs that are hacked become `hacked up'; if modifications are done with some eye to coherence and continued maintainability, the software may emerge better for the experience.
Contrast {hack up}. :hacker: [originally, someone who makes furniture with an axe] n. 1.
A person who enjoys exploring the details of programmable systems and how to stretch their capabilities, as opposed to most users, who prefer to learn only the minimum necessary.
One who programs enthusiastically (even obsessively) or who enjoys programming rather than just theorizing about programming.
A person capable of appreciating {hack value}.
A person who is good at programming quickly.
An expert at a particular program, or one who frequently does work using it or on it; as in `a UNIX hacker'. (Definitions 1 through 5 are correlated, and people who fit them congregate.) 6.
An expert or enthusiast of any kind.
One might be an astronomy hacker, for example.
One who enjoys the intellectual challenge of creatively overcoming or circumventing limitations.
8. [deprecated] A malicious meddler who tries to discover sensitive information by poking around.
Hence `password hacker', `network hacker'.
See {cracker}. The term `hacker' also tends to connote membership in the global community defined by the net (see {network, the} and {Internet address}).
It also implies that the person described is seen to subscribe to some version of the hacker ethic (see {hacker ethic, the}. It is better to be described as a hacker by others than to describe oneself that way.
Hackers consider themselves something of an elite (a meritocracy based on ability), though one to which new members are gladly welcome.
There is thus a certain ego satisfaction to be had in identifying yourself as a hacker (but if you claim to be one and are not, you'll quickly be labeled {bogus}).
See also {wannabee}. :hacker ethic, the: n.
The belief that information-sharing is a powerful positive good, and that it is an ethical duty of hackers to share their expertise by writing free software and facilitating access to information and to computing resources wherever possible.
The belief that system-cracking for fun and exploration is ethically OK as long as the cracker commits no theft, vandalism, or breach of confidentiality. Both of these normative ethical principles are widely, but by no means universally) accepted among hackers.
Most hackers subscribe to the hacker ethic in sense 1, and many act on it by writing and giving away free software.
A hack session extended long outside normal working times, especially one longer than 12 hours.
May cause you to `change phase the hard way' (see {phase}). :Hacking X for Y: [ITS] n.
The information ITS made publicly available about each user (the INQUIR record) was a sort of form in which the user could fill out fields.
On display, two of these fields were combined into a project description of the form "Hacking X for Y" (e.g., `"Hacking perceptrons for Minsky"').
This form of description became traditional and has since been carried over to other systems with more general facilities for self-advertisement (such as UNIX {plan file}s). :Hackintosh: n.
An Apple Lisa that has been hacked into emulating a Macintosh (also called a `Mac XL').
A Macintosh assembled from parts theoretically belonging to different models in the line. :hackish: /hak'ish/ adj. (also {hackishness} n.) 1.
Said of something that is or involves a hack.
Of or pertaining to hackers or the hacker subculture.
See also {true-hacker}. :hackishness: n.
The quality of being or involving a hack.
This term is considered mildly silly.
Syn. {hackishness}; this word is considered sillier. :hair: [back-formation from {hairy}] n.
The complications that make something hairy.
Decoding {TECO} commands requires a certain amount of hair.
Often seen in the phrase `infinite hair', which connotes extreme complexity.
Also in `hairiferous' (tending to promote hair growth): "GNUMACS elisp encourages lusers to write complex editing modes.
Yeah, it's pretty hairiferous all right." (or just: "Hair squared!") :hairy: adj.
Annoyingly complicated. "{DWIM} is incredibly hairy.
Incomprehensible. "{DWIM} is incredibly hairy." 3.
Of people, high-powered, authoritative, rare, expert, and/or incomprehensible.
Hard to explain except in context: "He knows this hairy lawyer who says there's nothing to worry about.
In fact the noun `long-hair' was at the time used to describe a person satisfying sense 3.
Both senses probably passed out of use when long hair was adopted as a signature trait by the 1960s counterculture, leaving hackish `hairy' as a sort of stunted mutant relic. :HAKMEM: /hak'mem/ n.
MIT AI Memo 239 (February 1972).
There are about 320 million, not counting those that differ only by rotation and reflection. Item 154 (Bill Gosper): The myth that any given programming language is machine independent is easily exploded by computing the sum of powers of 2.
If the result loops with period = 1 with sign +, you are on a sign-magnitude machine.
If the result loops with period = 1 at -1, you are on a twos-complement machine.
If the result loops with period greater than 1, including the beginning, you are on a ones-complement machine.
If the result loops with period greater than 1, not including the beginning, your machine isn't binary --- the pattern should tell you the base.
If you run out of memory, you are on a string or bignum system.
If arithmetic overflow is a fatal error, some fascist pig with a read-only mind is trying to enforce machine independence.
But the very ability to trap overflow is machine dependent.
By this strategy, consider the universe, or, more precisely, algebra: Let X = the sum of many powers of 2 = ...111111.
Now add X to itself: X + X = ...111110 Thus, 2X = X - 1, so X = -1.
This ensures that every 4-letter string output occurs in the original.
We note an ambiguity in the phrase, "the Nth occurrence of.
In one sense, there are five 00's in 0000000000; in another, there are nine.
The editing program TECO finds five.
Thus it finds only the first ANA in BANANA, and is thus obligated to type N next.
By Murphy's Law, there is but one NAN, thus forcing A, and thus a loop.
An option to find overlapped instances would be useful, although it would require backing up N - 1 characters before seeking the next N-character string. Note: This last item refers to a {Dissociated Press} implementation.
See also {banana problem}. HAKMEM also contains some rather more complicated mathematical and technical items, but these examples show some of its fun flavor. :hakspek: /hak'speek/ n.
Hence, `for' becomes `4'; `two', `too', and `to' become `2'; `ck' becomes `k'.
Before I see you tomorrow" becomes "b4 i c u 2moro".
First appeared in London about 1986, and was probably caused by the slowness of available talker systems, which operated on archaic machines with outdated operating systems and no standard methods of communication.
Has become rarer since. See also {talk mode}. :hammer: vt. Commonwealth hackish syn. for {bang on}. :hamster: n.
1. [Fairchild] A particularly slick little piece of code that does one thing well; a small, self-contained hack.
The image is of a hamster happily spinning its exercise wheel.
A tailless mouse; that is, one with an infrared link to a receiver on the machine, as opposed to the conventional cable.
3. [UK] Any item of hardware made by Amstrad, a company famous for its cheap plastic PC-almost-compatibles. :hand-hacking: n.
The practice of translating {hot spot}s from an {HLL} into hand-tuned assembler, as opposed to trying to coerce the compiler into generating better code.
Both the term and the practice are becoming uncommon.
See {tune}, {bum}, {by hand}; syn. with v. {cruft}.
More generally, manual construction or patching of data sets that would normally be generated by a translation utility and interpreted by another program, and aren't really designed to be read or modified by humans. :handle: [from CB slang] n.
An electronic pseudonym; a `nom de guerre' intended to conceal the user's true identity.
Network and BBS handles function as the same sort of simultaneous concealment and display one finds on Citizen's Band radio, from which the term was adopted.
To perform a normally automated software installation or configuration process {by hand}; implies that the normal process failed due to bugs in the configurator or was defeated by something exceptional in the local environment.
The worst thing about being a gateway between four different nets is having to hand-roll a new sendmail configuration every time any of them upgrades." :handshaking: n.
Hardware or software activity designed to start or keep two machines or programs in synchronization as they {do protocol}.
Often applied to human activity; thus, a hacker might watch two people in conversation nodding their heads to indicate that they have heard each others' points and say "Oh, they're handshaking!".
See also {protocol}. :handwave: [poss. from gestures characteristic of stage magicians] 1. v.
To gloss over a complex point; to distract a listener; to support a (possibly actually valid) point with blatantly faulty logic.
The theory behind this term is that if you wave your hands at the right moment, the listener may be sufficiently distracted to not notice that what you have said is {bogus}.
To wait for an event that will never occur.
The system is hanging because it can't read from the crashed drive". See {wedged}, {hung}.
To wait for some event to occur; to hang around until something happens.
The program displays a menu and then hangs until you type a character.
To attach a peripheral device, esp. in the construction `hang off': "We're going to hang another tape drive off the file server.
Implies a device attached with cables, rather than something that is strictly inside the machine's chassis. :Hanlon's Razor: prov.
A corollary of {Finagle's Law}, similar to Occam's Razor, that reads "Never attribute to malice that which can be adequately explained by stupidity.
The derivation of the common title Hanlon's Razor is unknown; a similar epigram has been attributed to William James.
Quoted here because it seems to be a particular favorite of hackers, often showing up in {fortune cookie} files and the login banners of BBS systems and commercial networks.
This probably reflects the hacker's daily experience of environments created by well-intentioned but short-sighted people. :happily: adv.
Of software, used to emphasize that a program is unaware of some important fact about its environment, either because it has been fooled into believing a lie, or because it doesn't care.
The sense of `happy' here is not that of elation, but rather that of blissful ignorance.
The program continues to run, happily unaware that its output is going to /dev/null." :haque: /hak/ [USENET] n.
Variant spelling of {hack}, used only for the noun form and connoting an {elegant} hack. :hard boot: n.
Said of data inserted directly into a program, where it cannot be easily modified, as opposed to data in some {profile}, resource (see {de-rezz} sense 2), or environment variable that a {user} or hacker can easily modify.
In C, this is esp. applied to use of a literal instead of a `#define' macro (see {magic number}). :hardwarily: /hard-weir'*-lee/ adv.
In a way pertaining to hardware.
The system is hardwarily unreliable.
The adjective `hardwary' is *not* traditionally used, though it has recently been reported from the U.K.
In software, syn. for {hardcoded}.
By extension, anything that is not modifiable, especially in the sense of customizable to one's particular needs or tastes. :has the X nature: [seems to derive from Zen Buddhist koans of the form "Does an X have the Buddha-nature?"] adj.
Common hacker construction for `is an X', used for humorous emphasis.
Anyone who can't even use a program with on-screen help embedded in it truly has the {loser} nature!
See also {the X that can be Y is not the true X}. :hash bucket: n.
This is used as techspeak with respect to code that uses actual hash functions; in jargon, it is used for human associative memory as well.
Thus, two things `in the same hash bucket' may be confused with each other. "If you hash English words only by length, you get too many common grammar words in the first couple of hash buckets.
Compare {hash collision}. :hash collision: [from the technical usage] n. (var. `hash clash') When used of people, signifies a confusion in associative memory or imagination, especially a persistent one (see {thinko}).
True story: One of us [ESR] was once on the phone with a friend about to move out to Berkeley.
When asked what he expected Berkeley to be like, the friend replied: "Well, I have this mental picture of naked women throwing Molotov cocktails, but I think that's just a collision in my hash tables.
Compare {hash bucket}. :hat: n.
Common (spoken) name for the circumflex (`^', ASCII 1011110) character.
See {ASCII} for other synonyms. :HCF: /H-C-F/ n.
This instruction caused the processor to {toggle} a subset of the bus lines as rapidly as it could; in some configurations this could actually cause lines to burn up. :heads down: [Sun] adj.
Concentrating, usually so heavily and for so long that everything outside the focus area is missed.
See also {hack mode} and {larval stage}, although it is not confined to fledgling hackers. :heartbeat: n.
The signal emitted by a Level 2 Ethernet transceiver at the end of every packet to show that the collision-detection circuit is still connected.
A periodic synchronization signal used by software or hardware, such as a bus clock or a periodic interrupt.
The `natural' oscillation frequency of a computer's clock crystal, before frequency division down to the machine's clock rate.
A signal emitted at regular intervals by software to demonstrate that it is still alive. Sometimes hardware is designed to reboot the machine if it stops hearing a heartbeat.
See also {breath-of-life packet}. :heatseeker: [IBM] n.
A customer who can be relied upon to always buy the latest version of an existing product (not quite the same as a member the {lunatic fringe}).
A 1992 example of a heatseeker is someone who, owning a 286 PC and Windows 3.0, goes out and buys Windows 3.1 (which offers no worthwhile benefits unless you have a 386).
If all customers were heatseekers, vast amounts of money could be made by just fixing the bugs in each release (n) and selling it to them as release (n+1). :heavy metal: [Cambridge] n.
Syn. {big iron}. :heavy wizardry: n.
Code or designs that trade on a particularly intimate knowledge or experience of a particular operating system or language or complex application interface.
Distinguished from {deep magic}, which trades more on arcane *theoretical* knowledge.
Writing device drivers is heavy wizardry; so is interfacing to {X} (sense 2) without a toolkit.
Esp. found in comments similar to "Heavy wizardry begins here ...".
Compare {voodoo programming}. :heavyweight: adj.
High-overhead; {baroque}; code-intensive; featureful, but costly.
This term isn't pejorative, but one man's heavyweight is another's {elephantine} and a third's {monstrosity}.
Usage: now borders on techspeak, especially in the compound `heavyweight process'. :heisenbug: /hi:'zen-buhg/ [from Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle in quantum physics] n.
A bug that disappears or alters its behavior when one attempts to probe or isolate it.
Antonym of {Bohr bug}; see also {mandelbug}, {schroedinbug}.
In C, nine out of ten heisenbugs result from either {fandango on core} phenomena (esp. lossage related to corruption of the malloc {arena}) or errors that {smash the stack}. :Helen Keller mode: n.
On IBM PCs under DOS, refers to a specific failure mode in which a screen saver has kicked in over an {ill-behaved} application which bypasses the interrupts the screen saver watches for activity.
Your choices are to try to get from the program's current state through a successful save-and-exit without being able to see what you're doing, or re-boot the machine.
This isn't (strictly speaking) a crash. :hello, sailor!: interj.
Occasional West Coast equivalent of {hello, world}; seems to have originated at SAIL, later associated with the game {Zork} (which also included "hello, aviator" and "hello, implementor").
Originally from the traditional hooker's greeting to a swabbie fresh off the boat, of course. :hello, wall!: excl.
See {wall}. :hello, world: interj.
The canonical minimal test message in the C/UNIX universe.
Any of the minimal programs that emit this message.
Traditionally, the first program a C coder is supposed to write in a new environment is one that just prints "hello, world" to standard output (and indeed it is the first example program in {K&R}).
Environments that generate an unreasonably large executable for this trivial test or which require a {hairy} compiler-linker invocation to generate it are considered to {lose} (see {X}).
Greeting uttered by a hacker making an entrance or requesting information from anyone present.
Is the {VAX} back up yet?" :hex: n.
Short for {{hexadecimal}}, base 16.
A 6-pack of anything (compare {quad}, sense 2).
Neither usage has anything to do with {magic} or {black art}, though the pun is appreciated and occasionally used by hackers.
True story: As a joke, some hackers once offered some surplus ICs for sale to be worn as protective amulets against hostile magic.
The chips were, of course, hex inverters. :hexadecimal:: n.
Coined in the early 1960s to replace earlier `sexadecimal', which was too racy and amusing for stuffy IBM, and later adopted by the rest of the industry. Actually, neither term is etymologically pure.
The `sexa-' prefix is Latin but incorrect in this context, and `hexa-' is Greek.
The word `octal' is similarly incorrect; a correct form would be `octaval' (to go with decimal), or `octonary' (to go with binary).
If anyone ever implements a base-3 computer, computer scientists will be faced with the unprecedented dilemma of a choice between two *correct* forms; both `ternary' and `trinary' have a claim to this throne. :hexit: /hek'sit/ n.
An extra option added to a routine without changing the calling sequence.
The most significant bit in a byte.
By extension, the most significant part of something other than a data byte: "Spare me the whole {saga}, just give me the high bit.
See also {meta bit}, {hobbit}, {dread high-bit disease}, and compare the mainstream slang `bottom line'. :high moby: /hi:' mohb'ee/ n.
The high half of a 512K {PDP-10}'s physical address space; the other half was of course the low moby.
See {moby}. :highly: [scientific computation] adv.
The preferred modifier for overstating an understatement.
In other computing cultures, postfixing of {in the extreme} might be preferred. :hing: // [IRC] n.
Fortuitous typo for `hint', now in wide intentional use among players of {initgame}.
Compare {newsfroup}, {filk}. :hirsute: adj.
Occasionally used humorously as a synonym for {hairy}. :HLL: /H-L-L/ n. [High-Level Language (as opposed to assembler)] Found primarily in email and news rather than speech.
Rarely, the variants `VHLL' and `MLL' are found.
The High Order Bit of a byte; same as the {meta bit} or {high bit}.
The non-ITS name of vad@ai.mit.edu (*Hobbit*), master of lasers. :hog: n.,vt. 1.
More often than not encountered in qualified forms, e.g., `memory hog', `core hog', `hog the processor', `hog the disk'.
A controller that never gives up the I/O bus gets killed after the bus-hog timer expires.
The paper by Danny Cohen that popularized the terms {big-endian} and {little-endian} in connection with the LSB-first/MSB-first controversy was entitled "On Holy Wars and a Plea for Peace".
Other perennial Holy Wars have included {EMACS} vs. {vi}, my personal computer vs. everyone else's personal computer, {{ITS}} vs. {{UNIX}}, {{UNIX}} vs. {VMS}, {BSD} UNIX vs. {USG UNIX}, {C} vs. {{Pascal}}, {C} vs. {LISP}, etc., ad nauseam.
The characteristic that distinguishes holy wars from normal technical disputes is that in a holy wars most of the participants spend their time trying to pass off personal value choices and cultural attachments as objective technical evaluations.
See also {theology}. :home box: n.
A hacker's personal machine, especially one he or she owns.
Well, *my* home box runs a full 4.2 BSD, so there!" :hook: n.
A software or hardware feature included in order to simplify later additions or changes by a user.
The variable is a simple hook.
An even more flexible program might examine the variable and treat a value of 16 or less as the base to use, but treat any other number as the address of a user-supplied routine for printing a number.
This is a {hairy} but powerful hook; one can then write a routine to print numbers as Roman numerals, say, or as Hebrew characters, and plug it into the program through the hook.
Often the difference between a good program and a superb one is that the latter has useful hooks in judiciously chosen places.
Both may do the original job about equally well, but the one with the hooks is much more flexible for future expansion of capabilities ({EMACS}, for example, is *all* hooks).
The term `user exit' is synonymous but much more formal and less hackish. :hop: n.
One file transmission in a series required to get a file from point A to point B on a store-and-forward network.
On such networks (including {UUCPNET} and {FidoNet}), the important inter-machine metric is the number of hops in the shortest path between them, rather than their geographical separation.
See {bang path}. :hose: 1. vt. To make non-functional or greatly degraded in performance.
That big ray-tracing program really hoses the system.
A narrow channel through which data flows under pressure.
Generally denotes data paths that represent performance bottlenecks.
Cabling, especially thick Ethernet cable.
This is sometimes called `bit hose' or `hosery' (play on `hosiery') or `etherhose'.
See also {washing machine}. :hosed: adj.
Used primarily by UNIX hackers. Humorous: also implies a condition thought to be relatively easy to reverse.
Probably derived from the Canadian slang `hoser' popularized by the Bob and Doug Mackenzie skits on SCTV.
The problem was corrected, and users were then assured that everything was OK because the system had been rehosed. See also {dehose}. :hot spot: n.
Such spikes are called `hot spots' and are good candidates for heavy optimization or {hand-hacking}.
The term is especially used of tight loops and recursions in the code's central algorithm, as opposed to (say) initial set-up costs or large but infrequent I/O operations.
The active location of a cursor on a bit-map display.
Put the mouse's hot spot on the `ON' widget and click the left button." 3.
A screen region that is sensitive to mouse clicks, which trigger some action.
Hypertext help screens are an example, in which a hot spot exists in the vicinity of any word for which additional material is available.
A hacker occupying a technical-specialist, R&D, or systems position at a commercial shop.
A really effective house wizard can have influence out of all proportion to his/her ostensible rank and still not have to wear a suit.
Used esp. of UNIX wizards.
The term `house guru' is equivalent. :HP-SUX: /H-P suhks/ n.
Unflattering hackerism for HP-UX, Hewlett-Packard's UNIX port, which eatures some truly unique bogosities in the filesystem internals and elsewhere (these occasionally create portability problems).
HP-UX is often referred to as `hockey-pux' inside HP, and one respondent claims that the proper pronunciation is /H-P ukkkhhhh/ as though one were about to spit.
See also {Nominal Semidestructor}, {Telerat}, {Open DeathTrap}, {ScumOS}, {sun-stools}, {terminak}. :huff: v.
To compress data using a Huffman code.
Various programs that use such methods have been called `HUFF' or some variant thereof.
Compare {crunch}, {compress}. :humma: // excl.
A filler word used on various `chat' and `talk' programs when you had nothing to say but felt that it was important to say something.
A distinctive style of shared intellectual humor found among hackers, having the following marked characteristics: 1.
Fascination with form-vs.-content jokes, paradoxes, and humor having to do with confusion of metalevels (see {meta}).
One way to make a hacker laugh: hold a red index card in front of him/her with "GREEN" written on it, or vice-versa (note, however, that this is funny only the first time). 2.
Elaborate deadpan parodies of large intellectual constructs, such as specifications (see {write-only memory}), standards documents, language descriptions (see {INTERCAL}), and even entire scientific theories (see {quantum bogodynamics}, {computron}). 3.
Jokes that involve screwily precise reasoning from bizarre, ludicrous, or just grossly counter-intuitive premises. 4.
Fascination with puns and wordplay. 5.
A fondness for apparently mindless humor with subversive currents of intelligence in it --- for example, old Warner Brothers and Rocky & Bullwinkle cartoons, the Marx brothers, the early B-52s, and Monty Python's Flying Circus.
Humor that combines this trait with elements of high camp and slapstick is especially favored. 6.
References to the symbol-object antinomies and associated ideas in Zen Buddhism and (less often) Taoism.
See {has the X nature}, {Discordianism}, {zen}, {ha ha only serious}, {AI koans}. See also {filk}, {retrocomputing}, and {appendix B}.
If you have an itchy feeling that all 6 of these traits are really aspects of one thing that is incredibly difficult to talk about exactly, you are (a) correct and (b) responding like a hacker.
These traits are also recognizable (though in a less marked form) throughout {{science-fiction fandom}}. :hung: [from `hung up'] adj.
Equivalent to {wedged}, but more common at UNIX/C sites.
Not generally used of people.
Syn. with {locked up}, {wedged}; compare {hosed}.
See also {hang}. A hung state is distinguished from {crash}ed or {down}, where the program or system is also unusable but because it is not running rather than because it is waiting for something.
However, the recovery from both situations is often the same. :hungry puppy: n.
Syn. {slopsucker}. :hungus: /huhng'g*s/ [perhaps related to slang `humongous'] adj. Large, unwieldy, usually unmanageable.
TCP is a hungus piece of code.
This is a hungus set of modifications." :hyperspace: /hi:'per-spays/ n.
The variant `east hyperspace' is recorded among CMU and Bliss hackers. = I = ===== :I didn't change anything!: interj.
An aggrieved cry often heard as bugs manifest during a regression test.
The {canonical} reply to this assertion is "Then it works just the same as it did before, doesn't it?
This is also heard from applications programmers trying to blame an obvious applications problem on an unrelated systems software change, for example a divide-by-0 fault after terminals were added to a network. Usually, their statement is found to be false.
This goes back to the original PDP-10 {ADVENT}, which would respond in this wise if you asked it to do something involving an object not present at your location in the game. :i14y: // n.
Abbrev. for `interoperability', with the `14' replacing fourteen letters.
Used in the {X} (windows) community.
Refers to portability and compatibility of data formats (even binary ones) between different programs or implementations of the same program on different machines. :i18n: // n.
Abbrev. for `internationali{z,s}ation', with the 18 replacing 18 letters.
Used in the {X} (windows) community. :IBM: /I-B-M/ Inferior But Marketable; It's Better Manually; Insidious Black Magic; It's Been Malfunctioning; Incontinent Bowel Movement; and a near-{infinite} number of even less complimentary expansions, including `International Business Machines'.
Also, `icebreaker': a program designed for cracking security on a system.
Neither term is in serious use yet as of mid-1991, but many hackers find the metaphor attractive, and each may develop a denotation in the future. :idempotent: [from mathematical techspeak] adj.
This term is often used with respect to {C} header files, which contain common definitions and declarations to be included by several source files.
Ever since, this has been hackish standard form for fending off requests to alter a new design to mimic some older (and, by implication, inferior and {baroque}) one.
The case X = {Pascal} manifests semi-regularly on USENET's comp.lang.c newsgroup.
Indeed, the case X = X has been reported in discussions of graphics software (see {X}). :ifdef out: /if'def owt/ v.
Syn. for {condition out}, specific to {C}. :ill-behaved: adj.
1. [numerical analysis] Said of an algorithm or computational method that tends to blow up because of accumulated roundoff error or poor convergence properties.
In the IBM PC/MS-DOS world, there is a folk theorem (nearly true) to the effect that (owing to gross inadequacies and performance penalties in the OS interface) all interesting applications are ill-behaved.
See {mess-dos}. :IMHO: // [from SF fandom via USENET; abbreviation for `In My Humble Opinion'] "IMHO, mixed-case C names should be avoided, as mistyping something in the wrong case can cause hard-to-detect errors --- and they look too Pascalish anyhow.
Also seen in variant forms such as IMNSHO (In My Not-So-Humble Opinion) and IMAO (In My Arrogant Opinion). :Imminent Death Of The Net Predicted!: [USENET] prov.
Since USENET first got off the ground in 1980-81, it has grown exponentially, approximately doubling in size every year.
On the other hand, most people feel the {signal-to-noise ratio} of USENET has dropped steadily.
These trends led, as far back as mid-1983, to predictions of the imminent collapse (or death) of the net.
A preferred superlative suffix for many hackish terms.
See, for example, `obscure in the extreme' under {obscure}, and compare {highly}. :incantation: n.
Any particularly arbitrary or obscure command that one must mutter at a system to attain a desired result.
Not used of passwords or other explicit security features.
Especially used of tricks that are so poorly documented they must be learned from a {wizard}.
This compiler normally locates initialized data in the data segment, but if you {mutter} the right incantation they will be forced into text space." :include: vt. [USENET] 1.
To duplicate a portion (or whole) of another's message (typically with attribution to the source) in a reply or followup, for clarifying the context of one's response. See the the discussion of inclusion styles under "Hacker Writing Style".
2. [from {C}] `#include <disclaimer.h>' has appeared in {sig block}s to refer to a notional `standard {disclaimer} file'. :include war: n.
Excessive multi-leveled including within a discussion {thread}, a practice that tends to annoy readers.
In a forum with high-traffic newsgroups, such as USENET, this can lead to {flame}s and the urge to start a {kill file}. :indent style: [C programmers] n.
The rules one uses to indent code in a readable fashion; a subject of {holy wars}.
There are four major C indent styles, described below; all have the aim of making it easier for the reader to visually track the scope of control constructs.
Also called `kernel style' because the UNIX kernel is written in it, and the `One True Brace Style' (abbrev.
Basic indent per level shown here is eight spaces, but four is occasionally seen. if (cond) { <body> } `GNU style' --- Used throughout GNU EMACS and the Free Software Foundation code, and just about nowhere else.
K&R/1TBS used to be nearly universal, but is now much less common (the opening brace tends to get lost against the right paren of the guard part in an `if' or `while', which is a {Bad Thing}).
Defenders of 1TBS argue that any putative gain in readability is less important than their style's relative economy with vertical space, which enables one to see more code on one's screen at once.
Doubtless these issues will continue to be the subject of {holy wars}. :index: n.
See {coefficient of X}. :infant mortality: n.
Up to half of all chip and wire failures happen within a new system's first few weeks; such failures are often referred to as `infant mortality' problems (or, occasionally, as `sudden infant death syndrome').
See {bathtub curve}, {burn-in period}. :infinite: adj.
Consisting of a large number of objects; extreme. Used very loosely as in: "This program produces infinite garbage.
He is an infinite loser.
The word most likely to follow `infinite', though, is {hair} (it has been pointed out that fractals are an excellent example of infinite hair).
These uses are abuses of the word's mathematical meaning.
The term `semi-infinite', denoting an immoderately large amount of some resource, is also heard.
This compiler is taking a semi-infinite amount of time to optimize my program.
See also {semi}. :infinite loop: n.
One that never terminates (that is, the machine {spin}s or {buzz}es forever and goes {catatonic}).
There is a standard joke that has been made about each generation's exemplar of the ultra-fast machine: "The Cray-3 is so fast it can execute an infinite loop in under 2 seconds!" :infinity: n.
The largest value that can be represented in a particular type of variable (register, memory location, data type, whatever).
2. `minus infinity': The smallest such value, not necessarily or even usually the simple negation of plus infinity. In N-bit twos-complement arithmetic, infinity is 2^(N-1) - 1 but minus infinity is - (2^(N-1)), not -(2^(N-1) - 1).
Note also that this is different from "time T equals minus infinity", which is closer to a mathematician's usage of infinity. :initgame: /in-it'gaym/ [IRC] n.
As a courtesy, the one picking the initials starts by providing a 4-letter hint of the form sex, nationality, life-status, reality-status.
For example, MAAR means "Male, American, Alive, Real" (as opposed to "fictional").
Initgame can be surprisingly addictive.
A computer language designed by Don Woods and James Lyon in 1972. INTERCAL is purposely different from all other computer languages in all ways but one; it is purely a written language, being totally unspeakable.
An excerpt from the INTERCAL Reference Manual will make the style of the language clear: It is a well-known and oft-demonstrated fact that a person whose work is incomprehensible is held in high esteem.
For example, if one were to state that the simplest way to store a value of 65536 in a 32-bit INTERCAL variable is: DO :1 <- #0$#256 any sensible programmer would say that that was absurd.
Since this is indeed the simplest method, the programmer would be made to look foolish in front of his boss, who would of course have happened to turn up, as bosses are wont to do.
The effect would be no less devastating for the programmer having been correct. INTERCAL has many other peculiar features designed to make it even more unspeakable.
The Woods-Lyons implementation was actually used by many (well, at least several) people at Princeton.
The language has been recently reimplemented as C-INTERCAL and is consequently enjoying an unprecedented level of unpopularity; there is even an alt.lang.intercal newsgroup devoted to the study and ... appreciation of the language on USENET. :interesting: adj.
In hacker parlance, this word has strong connotations of `annoying', or `difficult', or both.
Hackers relish a challenge, and enjoy wringing all the irony possible out of the ancient Chinese curse "May you live in interesting times". Oppose {trivial}, {uninteresting}. :Internet address:: n.
1. [techspeak] An absolute network address of the form foo@bar.baz, where foo is a user name, bar is a {sitename}, and baz is a `domain' name, possibly including periods itself.
Contrast with {bang path}; see also {network, the} and {network address}.
All Internet machines and most UUCP sites can now resolve these addresses, thanks to a large amount of behind-the-scenes magic and PD software written since 1980 or so. See also {bang path}, {domainist}.
Within the uk domain, there is an ac subdomain for academic sites and a co domain for commercial ones.
Other top-level domains may be divided up in similar ways. :interrupt: 1. [techspeak] n.
On a computer, an event that interrupts normal processing and temporarily diverts flow-of-control through an "interrupt handler" routine.
A request for attention from a hacker. Often explicitly spoken.
Interrupt --- have you seen Joe recently?
The list of all known software interrupt calls (both documented and undocumented) for IBM PCs and compatibles, maintained and made available for free redistribution by Ralf Brown <ralf@cs.cmu.edu>.
As of early 1991, it had grown to approximately a megabyte in length. :interrupts locked out: adj.
When someone is ignoring you.
In a restaurant, after several fruitless attempts to get the waitress's attention, a hacker might well observe "She must have interrupts locked out".
The synonym `interrupts disabled' is also common. Variations abound; "to have one's interrupt mask bit set" and "interrupts masked out" is also heard.
See also {spl}. :IRC: /I-R-C/ [Internet Relay Chat] n.
A world-wide "party line" network that allows one to converse with others in real time.
IRC is structured as a network of Internet servers, each of which accepts connections from client programs, one per user.
The IRC community and the {USENET} and {MUD} communities overlap to some extent, including both hackers and regular folks who have discovered the wonders of computer networks.
Some USENET jargon has been adopted on IRC, as have some conventions such as {emoticon}s.
There is also a vigorous native jargon, represented in this lexicon by entries marked `[IRC]'.
See also {talk mode}. :iron: n.
Hardware, especially older and larger hardware of {mainframe} class with big metal cabinets housing relatively low-density electronics (but the term is also used of modern supercomputers).
Often in the phrase {big iron}.
See also {dinosaur}. :Iron Age: n.
In the history of computing, 1961--1971 --- the formative era of commercial {mainframe} technology, when {big iron} {dinosaur}s ruled the earth.
These began with the delivery of the first PDP-1, coincided with the dominance of ferrite {core}, and ended with the introduction of the first commercial microprocessor (the Intel 4004) in 1971.
See also {Stone Age}; compare {elder days}. :iron box: [UNIX/Internet] n.
A special environment set up to trap a {cracker} logging in over remote connections long enough to be traced.
May include a modified {shell} restricting the cracker's movements in unobvious ways, and `bait' files designed to keep him interested and logged on.
See also {back door}, {firewall machine}, {Venus flytrap}, and Clifford Stoll's account in `{The Cuckoo's Egg}' of how he made and used one (see the Bibliography in appendix C).
Compare {padded cell}. :ironmonger: [IBM] n.
Compare {sandbender}, {polygon pusher}. :ITS:: /I-T-S/ n.
Incompatible Time-sharing System, an influential but highly idiosyncratic operating system written for PDP-6s and PDP-10s at MIT and long used at the MIT AI Lab.
Much AI-hacker jargon derives from ITS folklore, and to have been `an ITS hacker' qualifies one instantly as an old-timer of the most venerable sort.
ITS pioneered many important innovations, including transparent file sharing between machines and terminal-independent I/O.
After about 1982, most actual work was shifted to newer machines, with the remaining ITS boxes run essentially as a hobby and service to the hacker community.
The shutdown of the lab's last ITS machine in May 1990 marked the end of an era and sent old-time hackers into mourning nationwide (see {high moby}).
A mythical image of operating-system perfection worshiped by a bizarre, fervent retro-cult of old-time hackers and ex-users (see {troglodyte}, sense 2).
ITS worshipers manage somehow to continue believing that an OS maintained by assembly-language hand-hacking that supported only monocase 6-character filenames in one directory per account remains superior to today's state of commercial art (their venom against UNIX is particularly intense).
See also {holy wars}, {Weenix}. :IWBNI: // [abbreviation] `It Would Be Nice If'.
Compare {WIBNI}. :IYFEG: // [USENET] Abbreviation for `Insert Your Favorite Ethnic Group'.
Used as a meta-name when telling racist jokes on the net to avoid offending anyone.
See {JEDR}. = J = ===== :J.
Random: /J rand'm/ n. [generalized from {J.
Random Hacker}] Arbitrary; ordinary; any one; any old. `J.
Random' is often prefixed to a noun to make a name out of it.
It means roughly `some particular' or `any specific one'.
Random Loser marry your daughter?
The most common uses are `J.
Random Loser be allowed to {gun} down other people?"), but it can be used simply as an elaborate version of {random} in any sense. :J.
Random Hacker: [MIT] /J rand'm hak'r/ n.
A mythical figure like the Unknown Soldier; the archetypal hacker nerd.
This may originally have been inspired by `J.
Fred Muggs', a show-biz chimpanzee whose name was a household word back in the early days of {TMRC}, and was probably influenced by `J.
Presper Eckert' (one of the co-inventors of the digital computer). :jack in: v.
To log on to a machine or connect to a network or {BBS}, esp. for purposes of entering a {virtual reality} simulation such as a {MUD} or {IRC} (leaving is "jacking out").
The `stairstep' effect observable when an edge (esp. a linear edge of very shallow or steep slope) is rendered on a pixel device (as opposed to a vector display). :JCL: /J-C-L/ n.
IBM's supremely {rude} Job Control Language.
JCL is the script language used to control the execution of programs in IBM's batch systems.
JCL has a very {fascist} syntax, and some versions will, for example, {barf} if two spaces appear where it expects one.
Most programmers confronted with JCL simply copy a working file (or card deck), changing the file names.
Someone who actually understands and generates unique JCL is regarded with the mixed respect one gives to someone who memorizes the phone book.
It is reported that hackers at IBM itself sometimes sing "Who's the breeder of the crud that mangles you and me?
I-B-M, J-C-L, M-o-u-s-e" to the tune of the "Mickey Mouse Club" theme to express their opinion of the beast.
A comparative for any very {rude} software that a hacker is expected to use.
That's as bad as JCL.
As with {COBOL}, JCL is often used as an archetype of ugliness even by those who haven't experienced it.
See also {IBM}, {fear and loathing}. :JEDR: // n.
Why don't you jfcl that out?
Geoff Goodfellow, one of the jargon-1 co-authors, had JFCL on the license plate of his BMW for years.
Usage: rare except among old-time PDP-10 hackers. :jiffy: n.
The duration of one tick of the system clock on the computer (see {tick}).
Often one AC cycle time (1/60 second in the U.S. and Canada, 1/50 most other places), but more recently 1/100 sec has become common.
The swapper runs every 6 jiffies" means that the virtual memory management routine is executed once for every 6 ticks of the clock, or about ten times a second. 2.
Confusingly, the term is sometimes also used for a 1-millisecond {wall time} interval.
Even more confusingly, physicists semi-jokingly use `jiffy' to mean the time required for light to travel one foot in a vacuum, which turns out to be close to one *nanosecond*.
Indeterminate time from a few seconds to forever.
I'll do it in a jiffy" means certainly not now and possibly never.
This is a bit contrary to the more widespread use of the word.
See also {Real Soon Now}. :job security: n.
This sour joke seldom has to be said in full; if two hackers are looking over some code together and one points at a section and says "job security", the other one may just nod. :jock: n.
A programmer who is characterized by large and somewhat brute-force programs.
When modified by another noun, describes a specialist in some particular computing area.
The compounds `compiler jock' and `systems jock' seem to be the best-established examples of this. :joe code: /joh' kohd`/ n.
Code that is overly {tense} and unmaintainable. "{Perl} may be a handy program, but if you look at the source, it's complete joe code.
386BSD, the freeware port of the BSD Net/2 release to the Intel i386 architecture by Bill Jolitz and friends.
Used to differentiate from BSDI's port based on the same source tape, which is called BSD/386.
See {BSD}. :JR[LN]: /J-R-L/, /J-R-N/ n.
The names JRL and JRN were sometimes used as example names when discussing a kind of user ID used under {{TOPS-10}} and {WAITS}; they were understood to be the initials of (fictitious) programmers named `J.
To suddenly change subjects, with no intention of returning to the previous topic.
Usage: rather rare except among PDP-10 diehards, and considered silly.
See also {AOS}. :juggling eggs: vi.
Keeping a lot of {state} in your head while modifying a program.
Don't bother me now, I'm juggling eggs", means that an interrupt is likely to result in the program's being scrambled.
In the classic first-contact SF novel `The Mote in God's Eye', by Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle, an alien describes a very difficult task by saying "We juggle priceless eggs in variable gravity.
That is a very hackish use of language.
See also {hack mode}. :jump off into never-never land: [from J.
Same as {branch to Fishkill}, but more common in technical cultures associated with non-IBM computers that use the term `jump' rather than `branch'.
Compare {hyperspace}. :jupiter: [IRC] vt. To kill an {IRC} {robot} or user, and then take its place by adopting its {nick} so that it cannot reconnect.
Named after a particular IRC user who did this to NickServ, the robot in charge of preventing people from inadvertently using a nick claimed by another user. = K = ===== :K: /K/ [from {kilo-}] n.
This is used both as a spoken word and a written suffix (like {meg} and {gig} for megabyte and gigabyte).
See {{quantifiers}}. :K&R: [Kernighan and Ritchie] n.
Brian Kernighan and Dennis Ritchie's book `The C Programming Language', esp. the classic and influential first edition (Prentice-Hall 1978; ISBN 0-113-110163-3).
Syn. {White Book}, {Old Testament}.
See also {New Testament}. :K-line: [IRC] v.
To ban a particular person from an {IRC} server, usually for grossly bad {netiquette}.
Comes from the `K' code used to accomplish this in IRC's configuration file. :kahuna: /k*-hoo'nuh/ [IBM: from the Hawaiian title for a shaman] n. Synonym for {wizard}, {guru}. :kamikaze packet: n.
The `official' jargon for what is more commonly called a {Christmas tree packet}.
RFC-1025, `TCP and IP Bake Off' says: 10 points for correctly being able to process a "Kamikaze" packet (AKA nastygram, christmas tree packet, lamp test segment, et al.).
That is, correctly handle a segment with the maximum combination of features at once (e.g., a SYN URG PUSH FIN segment with options and data). See also {Chernobyl packet}. :kangaroo code: n.
Syn. {spaghetti code}. :ken: /ken/ n.
1. [UNIX] Ken Thompson, principal inventor of UNIX.
In the early days he used to hand-cut distribution tapes, often with a note that read "Love, ken".
Old-timers still use his first name (sometimes uncapitalized, because it's a login name and mail address) in third-person reference; it is widely understood (on USENET, in particular) that without a last name `Ken' refers only to Ken Thompson.
Similarly, Dennis without last name means Dennis Ritchie (and he is often known as dmr).
This was originated by the Software Support group at Symbolics because the two greatest flamers in the user community were both named Ken. :kgbvax: /K-G-B'vaks/ n.
See {kremvax}. :KIBO: /kee'boh/ [acronym] Knowledge In, Bullshit Out.
A summary of what happens whenever valid data is passed through an organization (or person) which deliberately or accidentally disregards or ignores its significance.
Consider, for example, what advertising campaign can do with a product's actual specifications.
Compare {GIGO}; see also {SNAFU principle}. :kick: [IRC] v.
To cause somebody to be removed from a {IRC} channel, an option only available to {CHOP}s.
Thus to add a person (or subject) to one's kill file is to arrange for that person to be ignored by one's newsreader in future.
By extension, it may be used for a decision to ignore the person or subject in other media.
See also {plonk}. :killer micro: [popularized by Eugene Brooks] n.
A microprocessor-based machine that infringes on mini, mainframe, or supercomputer performance turf.
Often heard in "No one will survive the attack of the killer micros!", the battle cry of the downsizers.
Used esp. of RISC architectures. The popularity of the phrase `attack of the killer micros' is doubtless reinforced by the movie title "Attack Of The Killer Tomatoes" (one of the {canonical} examples of so-bad-it's-wonderful among hackers).
This has even more flavor now that killer micros have gone on the offensive not just individually (in workstations) but in hordes (within massively parallel computers). :killer poke: n.
See also {HCF}. :kilo-: [SI] pref.
See {{quantifiers}}. :KIPS: /kips/ [abbreviation, by analogy with {MIPS} using {K}] n. Thousands (*not* 1024s) of Instructions Per Second.
Usage: rare. :KISS Principle: /kis' prin'si-pl/ n.
Keep It Simple, Stupid". A maxim often invoked when discussing design to fend off {creeping featurism} and control development complexity. Possibly related to the {marketroid} maxim on sales presentations, "Keep It Short and Simple". :kit: [USENET; poss. fr.
DEC slang for a full software distribution, as opposed to a patch or upgrade] n.
The more general term {distribution} may imply that special tools or more stringent conditions on the host environment are required. :klone: /klohn/ n.
See {clone}, sense 4. :kludge: /kluhj/ n.
Common (but incorrect) variant of {kluge}, q.v. :kluge: /klooj/ [from the German `klug', clever] 1. n.
A Rube Goldberg (or Heath Robinson) device, whether in hardware or software. (A long-ago `Datamation' article by Jackson Granholme said: "An ill-assorted collection of poorly matching parts, forming a distressing whole.") 2. n.
A clever programming trick intended to solve a particular nasty case in an expedient, if not clear, manner.
Often used to repair bugs.
Often involves {ad-hockery} and verges on being a {crock}.
In fact, the TMRC Dictionary defined `kludge' as "a crock that works".
3. n. Something that works for the wrong reason.
4. vt. To insert a kluge into a program.
I've kluged this routine to get around that weird bug, but there's probably a better way.
A feature that is implemented in a {rude} manner. Nowadays this term is often encountered in the variant spelling `kludge'.
Reports from {old fart}s are consistent that `kluge' was the original spelling, reported around computers as far back as the mid-1950s and, at that time, used exclusively of *hardware* kluges.
Several respondents have connected it to the brand name of a device called a "Kluge paper feeder" dating back at least to 1935, an adjunct to mechanical printing presses.
The Kluge feeder was designed before small, cheap electric motors and control electronics; it relied on a fiendishly complex assortment of cams, belts, and linkages to both power and synchronize all its operations from one motive driveshaft.
It was accordingly tempermental, subject to frequent breakdowns, and devilishly difficult to repair --- but oh, so clever!
Some people who encountered the word first in print or on-line jumped to the reasonable but incorrect conclusion that the word should be pronounced /kluhj/ (rhyming with `sludge').
The result of this tangled history is a mess; in 1991, many (perhaps even most) hackers pronounce the word correctly as /klooj/ but spell it incorrectly as `kludge' (compare the pronunciation drift of {mung}).
Some observers consider this appropriate in view of its meaning. :kluge around: vt. To avoid a bug or difficult condition by inserting a {kluge}.
I've kluged up this routine to dump the buffer contents to a safe place." :Knights of the Lambda Calculus: n.
A semi-mythical organization of wizardly LISP and Scheme hackers.
The name refers to a mathematical formalism invented by Alonzo Church, with which LISP is intimately connected.
There is no enrollment list and the criteria for induction are unclear, but one well-known LISPer has been known to give out buttons and, in general, the *members* know who they are.... :Knuth: /nooth/ [Donald E.
Knuth's `The Art of Computer Programming'] n.
Mythically, the reference that answers all questions about data structures or algorithms.
A safe answer when you do not know: "I think you can find that in Knuth.
See also {bible}. :kremvax: /krem-vaks/ [from the then large number of {USENET} {VAXen} with names of the form foovax] n.
Originally, a fictitious USENET site at the Kremlin, announced on April 1, 1984 in a posting ostensibly originated there by Soviet leader Konstantin Chernenko.
The posting was actually forged by Piet Beertema as an April Fool's joke.
Other fictitious sites mentioned in the hoax were moskvax and {kgbvax}.
During those three days the Soviet UUCP network centered on kremvax became the only trustworthy news source for many places within the USSR.
Though the sysops were concentrating on internal communications, cross-border postings included immediate transliterations of Boris Yeltsin's decrees condemning the coup and eyewitness reports of the demonstrations in Moscow's streets.
See {feature key}. = L = ===== :lace card: n. obs.
A {{punched card}} with all holes punched (also called a `whoopee card').
Card readers tended to jam when they got to one of these, as the resulting card had too little structural strength to avoid buckling inside the mechanism.
Card punches could also jam trying to produce these things owing to power-supply problems.
When some practical joker fed a lace card through the reader, you needed to clear the jam with a `card knife' --- which you used on the joker first. :language lawyer: n.
A person, usually an experienced or senior software engineer, who is intimately familiar with many or most of the numerous restrictions and features (both useful and esoteric) applicable to one or more computer programming languages.
A language lawyer is distinguished by the ability to show you the five sentences scattered through a 200-plus-page manual that together imply the answer to your question "if only you had thought to look there".
Compare {wizard}, {legal}, {legalese}. :languages of choice: n. {C} and {LISP}.
They often prefer to be known as {real programmer}s, and other hackers consider them a bit odd (see "{The Story of Mel, a Real Programmer}" in {appendix A}).
Assembler is generally no longer considered interesting or appropriate for anything but {HLL} implementation, {glue}, and a few time-critical and hardware-specific uses in systems programs.
Can last from 6 months to 2 years, the apparent median being around 18 months.
A few so afflicted never resume a more `normal' life, but the ordeal seems to be necessary to produce really wizardly (as opposed to merely competent) programmers.
Kung Pao Chicken, a standard Chinese dish containing chicken, peanuts, and hot red peppers in a spicy pepper-oil sauce.
The name is derived from the color of the sauce, which is considered bright enough to glow in the dark (as, mythically, do some of the inhabitants of Chernobyl). :Lasherism: [Harvard] n.
A program which solves a standard problem (such as the Eight Queens puzzle or implementing the {life} algorithm) in a deliberately nonstandard way.
Distinguished from a {crock} or {kluge} by the fact that the programmer did it on purpose as a mental exercise.
Lew Lasher was a student at Harvard around 1980 who became notorious for such behavior. :laundromat: n.
Syn. {disk farm}; see {washing machine}. :LDB: /l*'d*b/ [from the PDP-10 instruction set] vt. To extract from the middle.
LDB me a slice of cake, please.
This usage has been kept alive by Common LISP's function of the same name. Considered silly.
See also {DPB}. :leaf site: n.
A machine that merely originates and reads USENET news or mail, and does not relay any third-party traffic.
Often uttered in a critical tone; when the ratio of leaf sites to backbone, rib, and other relay sites gets too high, the network tends to develop bottlenecks.
Compare {backbone site}, {rib site}. :leak: n.
An {arena} with a {memory leak}. :legal: adj.
Loosely used to mean `in accordance with all the relevant rules', esp. in connection with some set of constraints defined by software.
The older =+ alternate for += is no longer legal syntax in ANSI C.
This parser processes each line of legal input the moment it sees the trailing linefeed.
Hackers often model their work as a sort of game played with the environment in which the objective is to maneuver through the thicket of `natural laws' to achieve a desired objective.
Their use of `legal' is flavored as much by this game-playing sense as by the more conventional one having to do with courts and lawyers. Compare {language lawyer}, {legalese}. :legalese: n.
Dense, pedantic verbiage in a language description, product specification, or interface standard; text that seems designed to obfuscate and requires a {language lawyer} to {parse} it.
A light-emitting resistor (that is, one in the process of burning up).
See {SED}. :LERP: /lerp/ vi.,n.
Quasi-acronym for Linear Interpolation, used as a verb or noun for the operation.
E.g., Bresenham's algorithm lerps incrementally between the two endpoints of the line. :let the smoke out: v.
To fry hardware (see {fried}).
See {magic smoke} for the mythology behind this. :letterbomb: n.
A piece of {email} containing {live data} intended to do nefarious things to the recipient's machine or terminal.
It is possible, for example, to send letterbombs that will lock up some specific kinds of terminals when they are viewed, so thoroughly that the user must cycle power (see {cycle}, sense 3) to unwedge them.
Under UNIX, a letterbomb can also try to get part of its contents interpreted as a shell command to the mailer. The results of this could range from silly to tragic.
See also {Trojan horse}; compare {nastygram}. :lexer: /lek'sr/ n.
Common hacker shorthand for `lexical analyzer', the input-tokenizing stage in the parser for a language (the part that breaks it into word-like pieces).
Some C lexers get confused by the old-style compound ops like `=-'." :lexiphage: /lek'si-fayj`/ n.
A notorious word {chomper} on ITS.
Many hackers pass through a stage of fascination with it, and hackers at various places contributed heavily to the mathematical analysis of this game (most notably Bill Gosper at MIT, who even implemented life in {TECO}!; see {Gosperism}).
When a hacker mentions `life', he is much more likely to mean this game than the magazine, the breakfast cereal, or the human state of existence. 2.
As in {Get a life!} :Life is hard: [XEROX PARC] prov.
This phrase has two possible interpretations: (1) "While your suggestion may have some merit, I will behave as though I hadn't heard it." (2) "While your suggestion has obvious merit, equally obvious circumstances prevent it from being seriously considered.
The charm of the phrase lies precisely in this subtle but important ambiguity. :light pipe: n.
Opposite of {heavyweight}; usually found in combining forms such as `lightweight process'. :like kicking dead whales down the beach: adj.
Describes a slow, difficult, and disgusting process.
First popularized by a famous quote about the difficulty of getting work done under one of IBM's mainframe OSes.
Well, you *could* write a C compiler in COBOL, but it would be like kicking dead whales down the beach." See also {fear and loathing} :like nailing jelly to a tree: adj.
The notational line of source at which a program fails for obscure reasons, implying either that *somebody* is out to get it (when you are the programmer), or that it richly deserves to be so gotten (when you are not).
It works when I trace through it, but seems to crash on line 666 when I run it.
What happens is that whenever a large batch comes through, mmdf dies on the Line of the Beast. Probably some twit hardcoded a buffer size." :line eater, the: [USENET] n.
A bug in some now-obsolete versions of the netnews software that used to eat up to BUFSIZ bytes of the article text.
The bug was triggered by having the text of the article start with a space or tab.
This bug was quickly personified as a mythical creature called the `line eater', and postings often included a dummy line of `line eater food'.
The practice of `sacrificing to the line eater' continued for some time after the bug had been {nailed to the wall}, and is still humorously referred to.
The bug itself is still (in mid-1991) occasionally reported to be lurking in some mail-to-netnews gateways.
See {NSA line eater}. :line noise: n.
1. [techspeak] Spurious characters due to electrical noise in a communications link, especially an RS-232 serial connection.
Line noise may be induced by poor connections, interference or crosstalk from other circuits, electrical storms, {cosmic rays}, or (notionally) birds crapping on the phone wires.
Any chunk of data in a file or elsewhere that looks like the results of line noise in sense 1.
Text that is theoretically a readable text or program source but employs syntax so bizarre that it looks like line noise in senses 1 or 2.
Yes, there are languages this ugly.
The canonical example is {TECO}; it is often claimed that "TECO's input syntax is indistinguishable from line noise.
Other non-{WYSIWYG} editors, such as Multics `qed' and Unix `ed', in the hands of a real hacker, also qualify easily, as do deliberately obfuscated languages such as {INTERCAL}. :line starve: [MIT] 1. vi.
To feed paper through a printer the wrong way by one line (most printers can't do this).
A character (or character sequence) that causes a terminal to perform this action.
ASCII 0011010, also called SUB or control-Z, was one common line-starve character in the days before microcomputers and the X3.64 terminal standard.
Unlike `line feed', `line starve' is *not* standard {{ASCII}} terminology.
A directory tree that contains many links to files in a master directory tree of files.
Link farms save space when (for example) one is maintaining several nearly identical copies of the same source tree, e.g., when the only difference is architecture-dependent object files.
Let's freeze the source and then rebuild the FROBOZZ-3 and FROBOZZ-4 link farms.
Link farms may also be used to get around restrictions on the number of `-I' (include-file directory) arguments on older C preprocessors.
However, they can also get completely out of hand, becoming the filesystem equivalent of {spaghetti code}. :link-dead: [MUD] adj.
This term used to be restricted to use of `lint(1)' itself, but (judging by references on USENET) it has become a shorthand for {desk check} at some non-UNIX shops, even in languages other than C.
Also as v. {delint}. 2. n.
Excess verbiage in a document, as in "this draft has too much lint". :lion food: [IBM] n.
Middle management or HQ staff (by extension, administrative drones in general).
From an old joke about two lions who, escaping from the zoo, split up to increase their chances but agreed to meet after 2 months.
When they finally meet, one is skinny and the other overweight.
The thin one says: "How did you manage?
I ate a human just once and they turned out a small army to chase me --- guns, nets, it was terrible.
Since then I've been reduced to eating mice, insects, even grass.
The fat one replies: "Well, *I* hid near an IBM office and ate a manager a day.
And nobody even noticed!" :Lions Book: n. `Source Code and Commentary on UNIX level 6', by John Lions.
The two parts of this book contained (1) the entire source listing of the UNIX Version 6 kernel, and (2) a commentary on the source discussing the algorithms.
These were circulated internally at the University of New South Wales beginning 1976--77, and were for years after the *only* detailed kernel documentation available to anyone outside Bell Labs.
Because Western Electric wished to maintain trade secret status on the kernel, the Lions book was never formally published and was only supposed to be distributed to affiliates of source licensees.
In spite of this, it soon spread by samizdat to a good many of the early UNIX hackers. :LISP: [from `LISt Processing language', but mythically from `Lots of Irritating Superfluous Parentheses'] n.
The name of AI's mother tongue, a language based on the ideas of (a) variable-length lists and trees as fundamental data types, and (b) the interpretation of code as data and vice-versa.
Invented by John McCarthy at MIT in the late 1950s, it is actually older than any other {HLL} still in use except FORTRAN.
Accordingly, it has undergone considerable adaptive radiation over the years; modern variants are quite different in detail from the original LISP 1.5. The dominant HLL among hackers until the early 1980s, LISP now shares the throne with {C}.
When the {Right Thing} has already been done once, there is no justification for {bogosity} in newer languages. :literature, the: n.
Computer-science journals and other publications, vaguely gestured at to answer a question that the speaker believes is {trivial}.
Thus, one might answer an annoying question by saying "It's in the literature.
Oppose {Knuth}, which has no connotation of triviality. :little-endian: adj.
Describes a computer architecture in which, within a given 16- or 32-bit word, bytes at lower addresses have lower significance (the word is stored `little-end-first').
The PDP-11 and VAX families of computers and Intel microprocessors and a lot of communications and networking hardware are little-endian. See {big-endian}, {middle-endian}, {NUXI problem}.
The term is sometimes used to describe the ordering of units other than bytes; most often these are bits within a byte. :live data: n.
Data that is written to be interpreted and takes over program flow when triggered by some un-obvious operation, such as viewing it.
One use of such hacks is to break security.
For another, there are some well-known bugs in {vi} that allow certain texts to send arbitrary commands back to the machine when they are simply viewed. 2.
In C code, data that includes pointers to function {hook}s (executable code).
An object, such as a {trampoline}, that is constructed on the fly by a program and intended to be executed as code.
Actual real-world data, as opposed to `test data'. For example, "I think I have the record deletion module finished.
Have you tried it out on live data?
It usually carries the connotation that live data is more fragile and must not be corrupted, else bad things will happen.
So a possible alternate response to the above claim might be: "Well, make sure it works perfectly before we throw live data at it.
The implication here is that record deletion is something pretty significant, and a haywire record-deletion module running amok on live data would cause great harm and probably require restoring from backups. :Live Free Or Die!: imp.
The state motto of New Hampshire, which appears on that state's automobile license plates.
A slogan associated with UNIX in the romantic days when UNIX aficionados saw themselves as a tiny, beleaguered underground tilting against the windmills of industry.
The "free" referred specifically to freedom from the {fascist} design philosophies and crufty misfeatures common on commercial operating systems.
Armando Stettner, one of the early UNIX developers, used to give out fake license plates bearing this motto under a large UNIX, all in New Hampshire colors of green and white.
These are now valued collector's items. :livelock: /li:v'lok/ n.
A situation in which some critical stage of a task is unable to finish because its clients perpetually create more work for it to do after they have been serviced but before it can clear its queue.
Differs from {deadlock} in that the process is not blocked or waiting for anything, but has a virtually infinite amount of work to do and can never catch up. :liveware: /li:v'weir/ n.
Waiter, there's some liveware in my salad..." :lobotomy: n.
What a hacker subjected to formal management training is said to have undergone.
At IBM and elsewhere this term is used by both hackers and low-level management; the latter doubtless intend it as a joke.
Said of a removable disk volume properly prepared for use --- that is, locked into the drive and with the heads loaded.
Ironically, because their heads are `loaded' whenever the power is up, this description is never used of {{Winchester}} drives (which are named after a rifle). :locked up: adj.
Syn. for {hung}, {wedged}. :logic bomb: n.
Code surreptitiously inserted in an application or OS that causes it to perform some destructive or security-compromising activity whenever specified conditions are met.
Compare {back door}. :logical: [from the technical term `logical device', wherein a physical device is referred to by an arbitrary `logical' name] adj.
The concept is reinforced by North American highways which are almost, but not quite, consistently labeled with logical rather than physical directions.
A similar situation exists at MIT: Route 128 (famous for the electronics industry that has grown up along it) is a 3-quarters circle surrounding Boston at a radius of 10 miles, terminating near the coastline at each end.
It would be most precise to describe the two directions along this highway as `clockwise' and `counterclockwise', but the road signs all say "north" and "south", respectively.
Derives from the computer-language notion of an iterative loop; compare `cdr down' (under {cdr}), which is less common among C and UNIX programmers.
ITS hackers used to say `IRP over' after an obscure pseudo-op in the MIDAS PDP-10 assembler. :loose bytes: n.
The person in an organization who knows the most about some aspect of a system.
See {wizard}. :lose: [MIT] vi.
A program loses when it encounters an exceptional condition or fails to work in the expected manner. 2.
To be exceptionally unesthetic or crocky.
Of people, to be obnoxious or unusually stupid (as opposed to ignorant).
See also {deserves to lose}.
Refers to something that is {losing}, especially in the phrases "That's a lose!" and "What a lose!" :lose lose: interj.
A reply to or comment on an undesirable situation.
I accidentally deleted all my files!
An unexpectedly bad situation, program, programmer, or person.
Someone who habitually loses. (Even winners can lose occasionally.) Someone who knows not and knows not that he knows not.
Emphatic forms are `real loser', `total loser', and `complete loser' (but not *`moby loser', which would be a contradiction in terms).
Said of anything that is or causes a {lose} or {lossage}. :loss: n.
Something (not a person) that loses; a situation in which something is losing.
Emphatic forms include `moby loss', and `total loss', `complete loss'.
Common interjections are "What a loss!" and "What a moby loss!
Note that `moby loss' is OK even though *`moby loser' is not used; applied to an abstract noun, moby is simply a magnifier, whereas when applied to a person it implies substance and has positive connotations.
Compare {lossage}. :lossage: /los'*j/ n.
The result of a bug or malfunction.
This is a mass or collective noun.
What a loss!" and "What lossage!" are nearly synonymous.
The former is slightly more particular to the speaker's present circumstances; the latter implies a continuing {lose} of which the speaker is currently a victim.
Thus (for example) a temporary hardware failure is a loss, but bugs in an important tool (like a compiler) are serious lossage. :lost in the noise: adj.
Syn. {lost in the underflow}.
This term is from signal processing, where signals of very small amplitude cannot be separated from low-intensity noise in the system.
Though popular among hackers, it is not confined to hackerdom; physicists, engineers, astronomers, and statisticians all use it. :lost in the underflow: adj.
Too small to be worth considering; more specifically, small beyond the limits of accuracy or measurement.
This is a reference to `floating underflow', a condition that can occur when a floating-point arithmetic processor tries to handle quantities smaller than its limit of magnitude.
See also {overflow bit}. :lots of MIPS but no I/O: adj.
Used to describe a person who is technically brilliant but can't seem to communicate with human beings effectively.
Technically it describes a machine that has lots of processing power but is bottlenecked on input-output (in 1991, the IBM Rios, a.k.a.
RS/6000, is a notorious recent example). :low-bandwidth: [from communication theory] adj.
Used to indicate a talk that, although not {content-free}, was not terribly informative.
That was a low-bandwidth talk, but what can you expect for an audience of {suit}s!
Compare {zero-content}, {bandwidth}, {math-out}. :LPT: /L-P-T/ or /lip'it/ or /lip-it'/ [MIT, via DEC] n.
Rare under UNIX, commoner in hackers with MS-DOS or CP/M background.
The printer device is called `LPT:' on those systems that, like ITS, were strongly influenced by early DEC conventions. :lunatic fringe: [IBM] n.
Customers who can be relied upon to accept release 1 versions of software. :lurker: n.
One of the `silent majority' in a electronic forum; one who posts occasionally or not at all but is known to read the group's postings regularly.
This term is not pejorative and indeed is casually used reflexively: "Oh, I'm just lurking.
Often used in `the lurkers', the hypothetical audience for the group's {flamage}-emitting regulars. :luser: /loo'zr/ n.
A {user}; esp. one who is also a {loser}. ({luser} and {loser} are pronounced identically.) This word was coined around 1975 at MIT.
Someone thought it would be a great joke to patch the system to print "14 losers" instead.
There ensued a great controversy, as some of the users didn't particularly want to be called losers to their faces every time they used the computer.
For a while several hackers struggled covertly, each changing the message behind the back of the others; any time you logged into the computer it was even money whether it would say "users" or "losers".
Finally, someone tried the compromise "lusers", and it stuck.
Later one of the ITS machines supported `luser' as a request-for-help command.
Often the subject of the macdinking would be better off without them. "When I left at 11 P.M. last night, he was still macdinking the slides for his presentation.
See also {fritterware}. :machinable: adj.
Having the {softcopy} nature. :machoflops: /mach'oh-flops/ [pun on `megaflops', a coinage for `millions of FLoating-point Operations Per Second'] n.
Refers to artificially inflated performance figures often quoted by computer manufacturers.
Real applications are lucky to get half the quoted speed.
See {Your mileage may vary}, {benchmark}. :Macintoy: /mak'in-toy/ n.
The Apple Macintosh, considered as a {toy}.
Less pejorative than {Macintrash}. :Macintrash: /mak'in-trash`/ n.
The Apple Macintosh, as described by a hacker who doesn't appreciate being kept away from the *real computer* by the interface.
The term {maggotbox} has been reported in regular use in the Research Triangle area of North Carolina.
See also {beige toaster}, {WIMP environment}, {point-and-drool interface}, {drool-proof paper}, {user-friendly}. :macro: /mak'roh/ [techspeak] n.
A name (possibly followed by a formal {arg} list) that is equated to a text or symbolic expression to which it is to be expanded (possibly with the substitution of actual arguments) by a macro expander.
In the mainstream and among other technical cultures (for example, medical people) this competes with the prefix {mega-}, but hackers tend to restrict the latter to quantification. :macrology: /mak-rol'*-jee/ n.
Set of usually complex or crufty macros, e.g., as part of a large system written in {LISP}, {TECO}, or (less commonly) assembler.
The art and science involved in comprehending a macrology in sense 1.
Sometimes studying the macrology of a system is not unlike archeology, ecology, or {theology}, hence the sound-alike construction.
See also {boxology}. :macrotape: /ma'kroh-tayp/ n.
An industry-standard reel of tape, as opposed to a {microtape}. :maggotbox: /mag'*t-boks/ n.
This is even more derogatory. :magic: adj.
As yet unexplained, or too complicated to explain; compare {automagically} and (Arthur C.) Clarke's Third Law: "Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.
TTY echoing is controlled by a large number of magic bits.
This routine magically computes the parity of an 8-bit byte in three instructions.
Characteristic of something that works although no one really understands why (this is especially called {black magic}).
3. [Stanford] A feature not generally publicized that allows something otherwise impossible, or a feature formerly in that category but now unveiled.
Compare {black magic}, {wizardly}, {deep magic}, {heavy wizardry}. For more about hackish `magic', see {A Story About `Magic'} (in {appendix A}). :magic cookie: [UNIX] n.
Something passed between routines or programs that enables the receiver to perform some operation; a capability ticket or opaque identifier.
Especially used of small data objects that contain data encoded in a strange or intrinsically machine-dependent way.
E.g., on non-UNIX OSes with a non-byte-stream model of files, the result of `ftell(3)' may be a magic cookie rather than a byte offset; it can be passed to `fseek(3)', but not operated on in any meaningful way.
The phrase `it hands you a magic cookie' means it returns a result whose contents are not defined but which can be passed back to the same or some other program later.
An in-band code for changing graphic rendition (e.g., inverse video or underlining) or performing other control functions.
Some older terminals would leave a blank on the screen corresponding to mode-change magic cookies; this was also called a {glitch}.
See also {cookie}. :magic number: [UNIX/C] n.
In source code, some non-obvious constant whose value is significant to the operation of a program and that is inserted inconspicuously in-line ({hardcoded}), rather than expanded in by a symbol set by a commented `#define'.
Magic numbers in this sense are bad style.
A number that encodes critical information used in an algorithm in some opaque way.
The classic examples of these are the numbers used in hash or CRC functions, or the coefficients in a linear congruential generator for pseudo-random numbers.
This sense actually predates and was ancestral to the more common sense 1. 3.
Special data located at the beginning of a binary data file to indicate its type to a utility.
Under UNIX, the system and various applications programs (especially the linker) distinguish between types of executable file by looking for a magic number.
Once upon a time, these magic numbers were PDP-11 branch instructions that skipped over header data to the start of executable code; the 0407, for example, was octal for `branch 16 bytes relative'.
Nowadays only a {wizard} knows the spells to create magic numbers.
How do you choose a fresh magic number of your own?
Simple --- you pick one at random.
It's magic! :magic smoke: n.
A substance trapped inside IC packages that enables them to function (also called `blue smoke'; this is similar to the archaic `phlogiston' hypothesis about combustion).
Its existence is demonstrated by what happens when a chip burns up --- the magic smoke gets let out, so it doesn't work any more.
I only discovered that *after* I realized that Intel didn't put power-on lights under the quartz windows on the tops of their EPROMs --- the die was glowing white-hot.
Amazingly, the EPROM worked fine after I erased it, filled it full of zeros, then erased it again.
For all I know, it's still in service.
Of course, this is because the magic smoke didn't get let out.
Compare the original phrasing of {Murphy's Law}. :mailing list: n. (often shortened in context to `list') 1.
An {email} address that is an alias (or {macro}, though that word is never used in this connection) for many other email addresses. Some mailing lists are simple `reflectors', redirecting mail sent to them to the list of recipients.
Others are filtered by humans or programs of varying degrees of sophistication; lists filtered by humans are said to be `moderated'.
The people who receive your email when you send it to such an address. Mailing lists are one of the primary forms of hacker interaction, along with {USENET}.
They predate USENET, having originated with the first UUCP and ARPANET connections.
They are often used for private information-sharing on topics that would be too specialized for or inappropriate to public USENET groups.
Though some of these maintain purely technical content (such as the Internet Engineering Task Force mailing list), others (like the `sf-lovers' list maintained for many years by Saul Jaffe) are recreational, and others are purely social.
Thus, they are often created temporarily by working groups, the members of which can then collaborate on a project without ever needing to meet face-to-face.
Much of the material in this lexicon was criticized and polished on just such a mailing list (called `jargon-friends'), which included all the co-authors of Steele-1983. :main loop: n.
See also {driver}. :mainframe: n.
Term originally referring to the cabinet containing the central processor unit or `main frame' of a room-filling {Stone Age} batch machine.
After the emergence of smaller `minicomputer' designs in the early 1970s, the traditional {big iron} machines were described as `mainframe computers' and eventually just as mainframes.
As of 1991, corporate America hasn't quite figured this out yet, though the wave of failures, takeovers, and mergers among traditional mainframe makers are certainly straws in the wind (see {dinosaurs mating}). :management: n.
Corporate power elites distinguished primarily by their distance from actual productive work and their chronic failure to manage (see also {suit}).
Spoken derisively, as in "*Management* decided that ...".
Mythically, a vast bureaucracy responsible for all the world's minor irritations. Hackers' satirical public notices are often signed `The Mgt'; this derives from the `Illuminatus' novels (see the Bibliography in {appendix C}). :mandelbug: /mon'del-buhg/ [from the Mandelbrot set] n.
A bug whose underlying causes are so complex and obscure as to make its behavior appear chaotic or even non-deterministic.
This term implies that the speaker thinks it is a {Bohr bug}, rather than a {heisenbug}.
See also {schroedinbug}. :manged: /monjd/ [probably from the French `manger' or Italian `mangiare', to eat; perhaps influenced by English n. `mange', `mangy'] adj.
Refers to anything that is mangled or damaged, usually beyond repair.
The disk was manged after the electrical storm.
Compare {mung}. :mangle: vt. Used similarly to {mung} or {scribble}, but more violent in its connotations; something that is mangled has been irreversibly and totally trashed. :mangler: [DEC] n.
Compare {mango}; see also {management}.
Note that {system mangler} is somewhat different in connotation. :mango: /mang'go/ [orig. in-house jargon at Symbolics] n.
See also {devo} and {doco}. :manularity: [prob. fr. techspeak `granularity' + `manual'] n.
A notional measure of the manual labor required for some task, particularly one of the sort that automation is supposed to eliminate.
The minimum needed to build your way further up some hierarchy of tools or abstractions.
After a bad system crash, you need to determine if the machine has enough marbles to come up on its own, or enough marbles to allow a rebuild from backups, or if you need to rebuild from scratch.
This compiler doesn't even have enough marbles to compile {hello, world}." :marginal: adj.
A marginal increase in {core} can decrease {GC} time drastically.
In everyday terms, this means that it is a lot easier to clean off your desk if you have a spare place to put some of the junk while you sort through it.
This proposed new feature seems rather marginal to me.
Of extremely small probability of {win}ning.
The power supply was rather marginal anyway; no wonder it fried." :Marginal Hacks: n.
Margaret Jacks Hall, a building into which the Stanford AI Lab was moved near the beginning of the 1980s (from the {D.
The ravs here are only marginally better than at Small Eating Place.
See {epsilon}. :marketroid: /mar'k*-troyd/ alt. `marketing slime', `marketing droid', `marketeer' n.
A legendary tragic failure, the archetypal Hacker Dream Gone Wrong.
Mars was the code name for a family of PDP-10 compatible computers built by Systems Concepts (now, The SC Group); the multi-processor SC-30M, the small uniprocessor SC-25M, and the never-built superprocessor SC-40M.
These machines were marvels of engineering design; although not much slower than the unique {Foonly} F-1, they were physically smaller and consumed less power than the much slower DEC KS10 or Foonly F-2, F-3, or F-4 machines.
TOPS-10 was running on the Mars by the summer of 1984, and TOPS-20 by early fall.
By the time SC shipped the first SC-30M to Stanford in late 1985, most customers had already made the traumatic decision to abandon the PDP-10, usually for VMS or UNIX boxes.
A packet sent on a TCP/IP network with a source address of the test loopback interface [127.0.0.1].
This means that it will come back at you labeled with a source address that is clearly not of this earth.
The domain server is getting lots of packets from Mars.
Does that gateway have a martian filter?" :massage: vt. Vague term used to describe `smooth' transformations of a data set into a different form, esp. transformations that do not lose information.
Connotes less pain than {munch} or {crunch}. "He wrote a program that massages X bitmap files into GIF format.
Compare {slurp}. :math-out: [poss. from `white-out' (the blizzard variety)] n.
A paper or presentation so encrusted with mathematical or other formal notation as to be incomprehensible.
This may be a device for concealing the fact that it is actually {content-free}.
See also {numbers}, {social science number}. :Matrix: [FidoNet] n.
What the Opus BBS software and sysops call {FidoNet}.
Fanciful term for a {cyberspace} expected to emerge from current networking experiments (see {network, the}). 3.
The totality of present-day computer networks. :maximum Maytag mode: What a {washing machine} or, by extension, any hard disk is in when it's being used so heavily that it's shaking like an old Maytag with an unbalanced load.
If prolonged for any length of time, can lead to disks becoming {walking drives}. :Mbogo, Dr. Fred: /*m-boh'goh, dok'tr fred/ [Stanford] n.
The archetypal man you don't want to see about a problem, esp. an incompetent professional; a shyster.
Do you know a good eye doctor?
Sure, try Mbogo Eye Care and Professional Dry Cleaning.
The name comes from synergy between {bogus} and the original Dr. Mbogo, a witch doctor who was Gomez Addams' physician on the old "Addams Family" TV show.
See also {fred}. :meatware: n.
Less common. :meeces: /mees'*z/ [TMRC] n.
Occasional furry visitors who are not {urchin}s. [That is, mice.
This may no longer be in live use; it clearly derives from the refrain of the early-1960s cartoon character Mr. Jinx: "I hate meeces to *pieces*!" --- ESR] :meg: /meg/ n.
See {{quantifiers}}. :mega-: /me'g*/ [SI] pref.
A {handwave} intended to confuse the listener and hopefully induce agreement because the listener does not want to admit to not understanding what is going on.
MEGO is usually directed at senior management by engineers and contains a high proportion of {TLA}s.
An appropriate response to MEGO tactics.
See {network meltdown}. :meme: /meem/ [coined on analogy with `gene' by Richard Dawkins] n.
An idea considered as a {replicator}, esp. with the connotation that memes parasitize people into propagating them much as viruses do.
Used esp. in the phrase `meme complex' denoting a group of mutually supporting memes that form an organized belief system, such as a religion.
This lexicon is an (epidemiological) vector of the `hacker subculture' meme complex; each entry might be considered a meme.
However, `meme' is often misused to mean `meme complex'.
Use of the term connotes acceptance of the idea that in humans (and presumably other tool- and language-using sophonts) cultural evolution by selection of adaptive ideas has superseded biological evolution by selection of hereditary traits.
Hackers find this idea congenial for tolerably obvious reasons. :meme plague: n.
The spread of a successful but pernicious {meme}, esp. one that parasitizes the victims into giving their all to propagate it.
Astrology, BASIC, and the other guy's religion are often considered to be examples.
As of mid-1991, this is still an extremely informal and speculative endeavor, though the first steps towards at least statistical rigor have been made by H.
Memetics is a popular topic for speculation among hackers, who like to see themselves as the architects of the new information ecologies in which memes live and replicate. :memory leak: n.
An error in a program's dynamic-store allocation logic that causes it to fail to reclaim discarded memory, leading to eventual collapse due to memory exhaustion.
Also (esp. at CMU) called {core leak}.
These problems were severe on older machines with small, fixed-size address spaces, and special "leak detection" tools were commonly written to root them out.
With the advent of virtual memory, it is unfortunately easier to be sloppy about wasting a bit of memory (although when you run out of memory on a VM machine, it means you've got a *real* leak!).
See {aliasing bug}, {fandango on core}, {smash the stack}, {precedence lossage}, {overrun screw}, {leaky heap}, {leak}. :memory smash: [XEROX PARC] n.
Writing through a pointer that doesn't point to what you think it does.
This occasionally reduces your machine to a rubble of bits.
Note that this is subtly different from (and more general than) related terms such as a {memory leak} or {fandango on core} because it doesn't imply an allocation error or overrun condition. :menuitis: /men`yoo-i:'tis/ n.
See {user-obsequious}, {drool-proof paper}, {WIMP environment}, {for the rest of us}. :mess-dos: /mes-dos/ n.
Often followed by the ritual banishing "Just say No!
Most hackers (even many MS-DOS hackers) loathe MS-DOS for its single-tasking nature, its limits on application size, its nasty primitive interface, and its ties to IBMness (see {fear and loathing}).
Also `mess-loss', `messy-dos', `mess-dog', `mess-dross', `mush-dos', and various combinations thereof.
In Ireland and the U.K. it is even sometimes called `Domestos' after a brand of toilet cleanser. :meta: /me't*/ or /may't*/ or (Commonwealth) /mee't*/ [from analytic philosophy] adj.,pref.
One level of description up.
A metasyntactic variable is a variable in notation used to describe syntax, and meta-language is language used to describe language. This is difficult to explain briefly, but much hacker humor turns on deliberate confusion between meta-levels.
See {{Humor, Hacker}}. :meta bit: n.
The top bit of an 8-bit character, which is on in character values 128--255.
Also called {high bit}, {alt bit}, or {hobbit}.
Some terminals and consoles (see {space-cadet keyboard}) have a META shift key.
Others (including, *mirabile dictu*, keyboards on IBM PC-class machines) have an ALT key.
See also {bucky bits}. Historical note: although in modern usage shaped by a universe of 8-bit bytes the meta bit is invariably hex 80 (octal 0200), things were different on earlier machines with 36-bit words and 9-bit bytes.
The MIT and Stanford keyboards (see {space-cadet keyboard}) generated hex 100 (octal 400) from their meta keys. :metasyntactic variable: n.
A name used in examples and understood to stand for whatever thing is under discussion, or any random member of a class of things under discussion.
The word {foo} is the {canonical} example.
To avoid confusion, hackers never (well, hardly ever) use `foo' or other words like it as permanent names for anything.
In filenames, a common convention is that any filename beginning with a metasyntactic-variable name is a {scratch} file that may be deleted at any time. To some extent, the list of one's preferred metasyntactic variables is a cultural signature.
They occur both in series (used for related groups of variables or objects) and as singletons.
Here are a few common signatures: {foo}, {bar}, {baz}, {quux}, quuux, quuuux...: MIT/Stanford usage, now found everywhere (thanks largely to early versions of this lexicon!).
At MIT, {baz} dropped out of use for a while in the 1970s and '80s.
A common recent mutation of this sequence inserts {qux} before {quux}. {foo}, {bar}, thud, grunt: This series was popular at CMU.
Other CMU-associated variables include {gorp}. {foo}, {bar}, fum: This series is reported common at XEROX PARC. {fred}, {barney}: See the entry for {fred}.
The compounds {foobar} and `foobaz' also enjoy very wide currency. Some jargon terms are also used as metasyntactic names; {barf} and {mumble}, for example.
More broadly applied to talks --- even when the topic is not a programming language --- in which the subject matter is gone into in unnecessary and meticulous detail at the sacrifice of any conceptual content.
Well, it was a typical MFTL talk".
Describes a language about which the developers are passionate (often to the point of prosyletic zeal) but no one else cares about.
Applied to the language by those outside the originating group.
Thus, the standard put-down question at an MFTL talk is "Has it been used for anything besides its own compiler?".
On the other hand, a language that *cannot* be used to write its own compiler is beneath contempt.
The resolution unit of mouse movement.
It has been suggested that the `disney' will become a benchmark unit for animation graphics performance. :mickey mouse program: n.
North American equivalent of a {noddy} (that is, trivial) program.
Doesn't necessarily have the belittling connotations of mainstream slang "Oh, that's just mickey mouse stuff!"; sometimes trivial programs can be very useful. :micro-: pref.
Very small; this is the root of its use as a quantifier prefix.
A quantifier prefix, calling for multiplication by 10^(-6) (see {{quantifiers}}).
Neither of these uses is peculiar to hackers, but hackers tend to fling them both around rather more freely than is countenanced in standard English.
It is recorded, for example, that one CS professor used to characterize the standard length of his lectures as a microcentury --- that is, about 52.6 minutes (see also {attoparsec}, {nanoacre}, and especially {microfortnight}).
Personal or human-scale --- that is, capable of being maintained or comprehended or manipulated by one human being.
This sense is generalized from `microcomputer', and is esp. used in contrast with `macro-' (the corresponding Greek prefix meaning `large').
Local as opposed to global (or {macro-}).
3.5-inch floppies, as opposed to 5.25-inch {vanilla} or mini-floppies and the now-obsolete 8-inch variety. This term may be headed for obsolescence as 5.25-inchers pass out of use, only to be revived if anybody floats a sub-3-inch floppy standard.
See {stiffy}, {minifloppies}. :microfortnight: n.
This time is specified in microfortnights! Multiple uses of the millifortnight (about 20 minutes) and {nanofortnight} have also been reported. :microLenat: /mi:-kroh-len'-*t/ n.
See {bogosity}. :microReid: /mi:'kroh-reed/ n.
See {bogosity}. :Microsloth Windows: /mi:'kroh-sloth` win'dohz/ n.
Hackerism for `Microsoft Windows', a windowing system for the IBM-PC which is so limited by bug-for-bug compatibility with {mess-dos} that it is agonizingly slow on anything less than a fast 386.
Compare {X}, {sun-stools}. :microtape: /mi:'kroh-tayp/ n.
Occasionally used to mean a DECtape, as opposed to a {macrotape}.
A DECtape is a small reel, about 4 inches in diameter, of magnetic tape about an inch wide.
In their heyday they were used in pretty much the same ways one would now use a floppy disk: as a small, portable way to save and transport files and programs.
Not {big-endian} or {little-endian}. Used of perverse byte orders such as 3-4-1-2 or 2-1-4-3, occasionally found in the packed-decimal formats of minicomputer manufacturers who shall remain nameless.
See {NUXI problem}. :milliLampson: /mil'*-lamp`sn/ n.
A unit of talking speed, abbreviated mL.
Most people run about 200 milliLampsons.
Butler Lampson (a CS theorist and systems implementor highly regarded among hackers) goes at 1000.
A few people speak faster.
This unit is sometimes used to compare the (sometimes widely disparate) rates at which people can generate ideas and actually emit them in speech.
For example, noted computer architect C.
5.25-inch {vanilla} floppy disks, as opposed to 3.5-inch or {microfloppies} and the now-obsolescent 8-inch variety.
At one time, this term was a trademark of Shugart Associates for their SA-400 minifloppy drive.
See {stiffy}. :MIPS: /mips/ [abbreviation] n.
A measure of computing speed; formally, `Million Instructions Per Second' (that's 10^6 per second, not 2^(20)!); often rendered by hackers as `Meaningless Indication of Processor Speed' or in other unflattering ways.
This joke expresses a nearly universal attitude about the value of most {benchmark} claims, said attitude being one of the great cultural divides between hackers and {marketroid}s.
The singular is sometimes `1 MIP' even though this is clearly etymologically wrong.
See also {KIPS} and {GIPS}.
Computers, especially large computers, considered abstractly as sources of {computron}s.
This is just a workstation; the heavy MIPS are hidden in the basement.
The corporate name of a particular RISC-chip company; among other things, they designed the processor chips used in DEC's 3100 workstation series.
Acronym for `Meaningless Information per Second' (a joke, prob. from sense 1). :misbug: /mis-buhg/ [MIT] n.
An unintended property of a program that turns out to be useful; something that should have been a {bug} but turns out to be a {feature}.
See {miswart}. :misfeature: /mis-fee'chr/ or /mis'fee`chr/ n.
A feature that eventually causes lossage, possibly because it is not adequate for a new situation which has evolved.
Since it results from a deliberate and properly-implemented feature, a misfeature is not a bug.
Nor is it a simple unforeseen side effect; the term implies that the feature in question was carefully planned, but its long-term consequences were not accurately or adequately predicted (which is quite different from not having thought ahead at all).
Often a former feature becomes a misfeature because a tradeoff was made whose parameters subsequently change (possibly only in the judgment of the implementors).
Well, yeah, it is kind of a misfeature that file names are limited to 6 characters, but the original implementors wanted to save directory space and we're stuck with it for now." :Missed'em-five: n.
Pejorative hackerism for AT&T System V UNIX, generally used by {BSD} partisans in a bigoted mood. (The synonym `SysVile' is also encountered.) See {software bloat}, {Berzerkeley}. :missile address: n.
See {ICBM address}. :miswart: /mis-wort/ [from {wart} by analogy with {misbug}] n. A {feature} that superficially appears to be a {wart} but has been determined to be the {Right Thing}.
This feature is a miswart. :moby: /moh'bee/ [MIT: seems to have been in use among model railroad fans years ago.
Derived from Melville's `Moby Dick' (some say from `Moby Pickle').] 1. adj.
A Saturn V rocket is a truly moby frob.
Some MIT undergrads pulled off a moby hack at the Harvard-Yale game." (See "{The Meaning of `Hack'}").
The maximum address space of a machine (see below).
For a 680[234]0 or VAX or most modern 32-bit architectures, it is 4,294,967,296 8-bit bytes (4 gigabytes).
A title of address (never of third-person reference), usually used to show admiration, respect, and/or friendliness to a competent hacker.
How's that address-book thing for the Mac going?
Thus, a moby is classically 256K 36-bit words, the size of a PDP-6 or PDP-10 moby.
Back when address registers were narrow the term was more generally useful, because when a computer had virtual memory mapping, it might actually have more physical memory attached to it than any one program could access directly.
One could then say "This computer has 6 mobies" meaning that the ratio of physical memory to address space is 6, without having to say specifically how much memory there actually is.
On these, a `moby' would be the 1-megabyte address span of a segment/offset pair (by coincidence, a PDP-10 moby was exactly 1 megabyte of 9-bit bytes). :mod: vt.,n.
Short for `modify' or `modification'.
Very commonly used --- in fact the full terms are considered markers that one is being formal.
The plural `mods' is used esp. with reference to bug fixes or minor design changes in hardware or software, most esp. with respect to {patch} sets or a {diff}. 2.
Short for {modulo} but used *only* for its techspeak sense. :mode: n.
A general state, usually used with an adjective describing the state.
Use of the word `mode' rather than `state' implies that the state is extended over time, and probably also that some activity characteristic of that state is being carried out.
No time to hack; I'm in thesis mode.
In its jargon sense, `mode' is most often attributed to people, though it is sometimes applied to programs and inanimate objects.
In particular, see {hack mode}, {day mode}, {night mode}, {demo mode}, {fireworks mode}, and {yoyo mode}; also {talk mode}. One also often hears the verbs `enable' and `disable' used in connection with jargon modes.
Thus, for example, a sillier way of saying "I'm going to crash" is "I'm going to enable crash mode now".
One might also hear a request to "disable flame mode, please". In a usage much closer to techspeak, a mode is a special state which certain user interfaces must pass into in order to perform certain functions.
For example, in order to insert characters into a document in the UNIX editor `vi', one must type the "i" key, which invokes the "Insert" command.
The effect of this command is to put vi into "insert mode", in which typing the "i" key has a quite different effect (to wit, it inserts an "i" into the document).
One must then hit another special key, "ESC", in order to leave "insert mode".
Nowadays, moded interfaces are generally considered {losing}, but survive in quite a few widely-used tools built in less enlightened times. :mode bit: n.
A {flag}, usually in hardware, that selects between two (usually quite different) modes of operation.
The connotations are different from {flag} bit in that mode bits are mainly written during a boot or set-up phase, are seldom explicitly read, and seldom change over the lifetime of an ordinary program.
The classic example was the EBCDIC-vs.-ASCII bit (#12) of the Program Status Word of the IBM 360.
Another was the bit on a PDP-12 that controlled whether it ran the PDP-8 or the LINC instruction set. :modulo: /mo'dyu-loh/ prep.
An overgeneralization of mathematical terminology; one can consider saying that 4 = 22 except for the 9s (4 = 22 mod 9).
Well, LISP seems to work okay now, modulo that {GC} bug.
I feel fine today modulo a slight headache." :molly-guard: /mol'ee-gard/ [University of Illinois] n.
A shield to prevent tripping of some {Big Red Switch} by clumsy or ignorant hands.
Originally used of some plexiglass covers improvised for the BRS on an IBM 4341 after a programmer's toddler daughter (named Molly) frobbed it twice in one day.
Later generalized to covers over stop/reset switches on disk drives and networking equipment. :Mongolian Hordes technique: n.
Development by {gang bang} (poss. from the Sixties counterculture expression `Mongolian clusterfuck' for a public orgy).
Implies that large numbers of inexperienced programmers are being put on a job better performed by a few skilled ones.
Also called `Chinese Army technique'; see also {Brooks's Law}. :monkey up: vt. To hack together hardware for a particular task, especially a one-shot job.
Connotes an extremely {crufty} and consciously temporary solution.
Compare {hack up}, {kluge up}, {cruft together}, {cruft together}. :monkey, scratch: n.
See {scratch monkey}. :monstrosity: 1. n.
A ridiculously {elephantine} program or system, esp. one that is buggy or only marginally functional. 2.
The quality of being monstrous (see `Overgeneralization' in the discussion of jargonification).
See also {baroque}. :Moof: /moof/ [MAC users] n.
Option-shift-click will cause it to emit a characteristic `Moof!' or `!fooM' sound. *Getting* to tech note 31 is the hard part; to discover how to do that, one must needs examine the stack script with a hackerly eye.
A dogcow also appears if you choose `Page Setup...' with a LaserWriter selected and click on the `Options' button. :Moore's Law: /morz law/ prov.
See also {Parkinson's Law of Data}. :moose call, the: n.
See {whalesong}. :moria: /mor'ee-*/ n.
Like {nethack} and {rogue}, one of the large PD Dungeons-and-Dragons-like simulation games, available for a wide range of machines and operating systems.
Extremely addictive and a major consumer of time better used for hacking. :MOTAS: /moh-toz/ [USENET: Member Of The Appropriate Sex, after {MOTOS} and {MOTSS}] n.
A potential or (less often) actual sex partner.
See also {SO}. :MOTOS: /moh-tohs/ [acronym from the 1970 U.S. census forms via USENET: Member Of The Opposite Sex] n.
Less common than MOTSS or {MOTAS}, which have largely displaced it. :MOTSS: /mots/ or /M-O-T-S-S/ [from the 1970 U.S. census forms via USENET, Member Of The Same Sex] n.
Esp. one considered as a possible sexual partner.
The gay-issues newsgroup on USENET is called soc.motss.
See {MOTOS} and {MOTAS}, which derive from it.
Also see {SO}. :mouse ahead: vi.
Point-and-click analog of `type ahead'.
To manipulate a computer's pointing device (almost always a mouse in this usage, but not necessarily) and its selection or command buttons before a computer program is ready to accept such input, in anticipation of the program accepting the input.
Handling this properly is rare, but it can help make a {WIMP environment} much more usable, assuming the users are familiar with the behavior of the user interface. :mouse around: vi.
To explore public portions of a large system, esp. a network such as Internet via {FTP} or {TELNET}, looking for interesting stuff to {snarf}. :mouse belt: n.
See {rat belt}. :mouse droppings: [MS-DOS] n.
Pixels (usually single) that are not properly restored when the mouse pointer moves away from a particular location on the screen, producing the appearance that the mouse pointer has left droppings behind.
A tennis-elbow-like fatigue syndrome resulting from excessive use of a {WIMP environment}.
Compare {thinko}, {braino}. :MS-DOS:: /M-S-dos/ [MicroSoft Disk Operating System] n.
The resulting mess is now the highest-unit-volume OS in history.
Often known simply as DOS, which annoys people familiar with other similarly abbreviated operating systems (the name goes back to the mid-1960s, when it was attached to IBM's first disk operating system for the 360).
The name further annoys those who know what the term {operating system} does (or ought to) connote; DOS is more properly a set of relatively simple interrupt services.
Some people like to pronounce DOS like "dose", as in "I don't work on dose, man!", or to compare it to a dose of brain-damaging drugs (a slogan button in wide circulation among hackers exhorts: "MS-DOS: Just say No!").
See {mess-dos}, {ill-behaved}. :mu: /moo/ The correct answer to the classic trick question "Have you stopped beating your wife yet?".
According to various Discordians and Douglas Hofstadter (see the Bibliography in {appendix C}), the correct answer is usually "mu", a Japanese word alleged to mean "Your question cannot be answered because it depends on incorrect assumptions".
Hackers tend to be sensitive to logical inadequacies in language, and many have adopted this suggestion with enthusiasm.
The word `mu' is actually from Chinese, meaning `nothing'; it is used in mainstream Japanese in that sense, but native speakers do not recognize the Discordian question-denying use.
A class of {virtual reality} experiments accessible via the Internet.
To play a MUD (see {hack-and-slay}).
Because these had an image as `research' they often survived administrative hostility to BBSs in general.
The second wave of MUDs (TinyMUD and variants) tended to emphasize social interaction, puzzles, and cooperative world-building as opposed to combat and competition.
In 1991, over 50% of MUD sites are of a third major variety, LPMUD, which synthesizes the combat/puzzle aspects of AberMUD and older systems with the extensibility of TinyMud.
See also {BartleMUD}, {berserking}, {bonk/oif}, {brand brand brand}, {FOD}, {hack-and-slay}, {link-dead}, {mudhead}, {posing}, {talk mode}, {tinycrud}. :muddie: n.
More common in Great Britain, possibly because system administrators there like to mutter "bloody muddies" when annoyed at the species. :mudhead: n.
Commonly used to refer to a {MUD} player who eats, sleeps, and breathes MUD.
Mudheads have been known to fail their degrees, drop out, etc., with the consolation, however, that they made wizard level.
See also {wannabee}. :multician: /muhl-ti'shn/ [coined at Honeywell, ca. 1970] n. Competent user of {{Multics}}.
Perhaps oddly, no one has ever promoted the analogous `Unician'. :Multics:: /muhl'tiks/ n. [from "MULTiplexed Information and Computing Service"] An early (late 1960s) timesharing operating system co-designed by a consortium including MIT, GE, and Bell Laboratories.
Very innovative for its time --- among other things, it introduced the idea of treating all devices uniformly as special files.
All the members but GE eventually pulled out after determining that {second-system effect} had bloated Multics to the point of practical unusability (the `lean' predecessor in question was {CTSS}).
Honeywell commercialized Multics after buying out GE's computer group, but it was never very successful (among other things, on some versions one was commonly required to enter a password to log out).
One of the developers left in the lurch by the project's breakup was Ken Thompson, a circumstance which led directly to the birth of {{UNIX}}.
For this and other reasons, aspects of the Multics design remain a topic of occasional debate among hackers.
See also {brain-damaged} and {GCOS}. :multitask: n.
Often used of humans in the same meaning it has for computers, to describe a person doing several things at once (but see {thrash}).
The term `multiplex', from communications technology (meaning to handle more than one channel at the same time), is used similarly. :mumblage: /muhm'bl*j/ n.
The topic of one's mumbling (see {mumble}).
All that mumblage" is used like "all that stuff" when it is not quite clear how the subject of discussion works, or like "all that crap" when `mumble' is being used as an implicit replacement for pejoratives. :mumble: interj.
Said when the correct response is too complicated to enunciate, or the speaker has not thought it out. Often prefaces a longer answer, or indicates a general reluctance to get into a long discussion.
Don't you think that we could improve LISP performance by using a hybrid reference-count transaction garbage collector, if the cache is big enough and there are some extra cache bits for the microcode to use?
I'll have to think about it.
Sometimes used as an expression of disagreement.
I think we should buy a {VAX}.
Common variant: `mumble frotz' (see {frotz}; interestingly, one does not say `mumble frobnitz' even though `frotz' is short for `frobnitz').
Yet another {metasyntactic variable}, like {foo}.
When used as a question ("Mumble?") means "I didn't understand you".
Sometimes used in `public' contexts on-line as a placefiller for things one is barred from giving details about.
For example, a poster with pre-released hardware in his machine might say "Yup, my machine now has an extra 16M of memory, thanks to the card I'm testing for Mumbleco.
A conversational wild card used to designate something one doesn't want to bother spelling out, but which can be {glark}ed from context.
7. [XEROX PARC] A colloquialism used to suggest that further discussion would be fruitless. :munch: [often confused with {mung}, q.v.] vt. To transform information in a serial fashion, often requiring large amounts of computation.
To trace down a data structure.
Related to {crunch} and nearly synonymous with {grovel}, but connotes less pain. :munching: n.
Exploration of security holes of someone else's computer for thrills, notoriety, or to annoy the system manager. Compare {cracker}.
See also {hacked off}. :munching squares: n.
Frank Baum's `The Wizard of Oz'] n.
A teenage-or-younger micro enthusiast hacking BASIC or something else equally constricted.
A term of mild derision --- munchkins are annoying but some grow up to be hackers after passing through a {larval stage}.
The term {urchin} is also used.
See also {wannabee}, {bitty box}. :mundane: [from SF fandom] n.
A person who is not in science fiction fandom.
A person who is not in the computer industry. In this sense, most often an adjectival modifier as in "in my mundane life....
See also {Real World}. :mung: /muhng/ alt. `munge' /muhnj/ [in 1960 at MIT, `Mash Until No Good'; sometime after that the derivation from the {{recursive acronym}} `Mung Until No Good' became standard] vt. 1.
To make changes to a file, esp. large-scale and irrevocable changes.
To destroy, usually accidentally, occasionally maliciously.
The system only mungs things maliciously; this is a consequence of {Finagle's Law}.
See {scribble}, {mangle}, {trash}, {nuke}.
Reports from {USENET} suggest that the pronunciation /muhnj/ is now usual in speech, but the spelling `mung' is still common in program comments (compare the widespread confusion over the proper spelling of {kluge}).
The kind of beans of which the sprouts are used in Chinese food. (That's their real name!
Really!) Like many early hacker terms, this one seems to have originated at {TMRC}; it was already in use there in 1958.
Peter Samson (compiler of the TMRC lexicon) thinks it may originally have been onomatopoeic for the sound of a relay spring (contact) being twanged. :Murphy's Law: prov.
For example, you don't make a two-pin plug symmetrical and then label it `THIS WAY UP'; if it matters which way it is plugged in, then you make the design asymmetrical (see also the anecdote under {magic smoke}). Edward A.
Murphy, Jr. was one of the engineers on the rocket-sled experiments that were done by the U.S.
Air Force in 1949 to test human acceleration tolerances (USAF project MX981).
One experiment involved a set of 16 accelerometers mounted to different parts of the subject's body.
There were two ways each sensor could be glued to its mount, and somebody methodically installed all 16 the wrong way around.
Murphy then made the original form of his pronouncement, which the test subject (Major John Paul Stapp) quoted at a news conference a few days later. Within months `Murphy's Law' had spread to various technical cultures connected to aerospace engineering.
Before too many years had gone by variants had passed into the popular imagination, changing as they went.
Most of these are variants on "Anything that can go wrong, will"; this is sometimes referred to as {Finagle's Law}.
The memetic drift apparent in these mutants clearly demonstrates Murphy's Law acting on itself! :music:: n.
A common extracurricular interest of hackers (compare {{science-fiction fandom}}, {{oriental food}}; see also {filk}).
Folk music is very big in hacker circles; so is electronic music, and the sort of elaborate instrumental jazz/rock that used to be called `progressive' and isn't recorded much any more.
The hacker's musical range tends to be wide; many can listen with equal appreciation to (say) Talking Heads, Yes, Gentle Giant, Spirogyra, Scott Joplin, Tangerine Dream, King Sunny Ade, The Pretenders, or Bach's Brandenburg Concerti.
Often used in `mutter an {incantation}'.
See also {wizard}. = N = ===== :N: /N/ quant.
A large and indeterminate number of objects: "There were N bugs in that crock!
Also used in its original sense of a variable name: "This crock has N bugs, as N goes to infinity." (The true number of bugs is always at least N + 1.) 2.
A variable whose value is inherited from the current context.
For example, when a meal is being ordered at a restaurant, N may be understood to mean however many people there are at the table.
The ordinal counterpart of N, senses 1 and 2.
Now for the Nth and last time...
In the specific context "Nth-year grad student", N is generally assumed to be at least 4, and is usually 5 or more (see {tenured graduate student}).
See also {{random numbers}}, {two-to-the-N}. :nadger: /nad'jr/ [Great Britain] v.
Of software or hardware (not people), to twiddle some object in a hidden manner, generally so that it conforms better to some format.
For instance, string printing routines on 8-bit processors often take the string text from the instruction stream, thus a print call looks like `jsr print:"Hello world"'.
The print routine has to `nadger' the return instruction pointer so that the processor doesn't try to execute the text as instructions. :nailed to the wall: [like a trophy] adj.
Said of a bug finally eliminated after protracted, and even heroic, effort. :nailing jelly: vi.
See {like nailing jelly to a tree}. :na"ive: adj.
This is completely unrelated to general maturity or competence, or even competence at any other specific program.
It is a sad commentary on the primitive state of computing that the natural opposite of this term is often claimed to be `experienced user' but is really more like `cynical user'. :na"ive user: n.
Tends to imply someone who is ignorant mainly owing to inexperience.
When this is applied to someone who *has* experience, there is a definite implication of stupidity. :NAK: /nak/ [from the ASCII mnemonic for 0010101] interj. 1.
On-line joke answer to {ACK}?: "I'm not here." 2.
On-line answer to a request for chat: "I'm not available." 3.
Used to politely interrupt someone to tell them you don't understand their point or that they have suddenly stopped making sense.
And then, after we recode the project in COBOL....
I thought I heard you say COBOL!" :nano: /nan'oh/ [CMU: from `nanosecond'] n.
A brief period of time.
Smaller than {micro-}, and used in the same rather loose and connotative way.
Thus, one has {{nanotechnology}} (coined by hacker K.
Eric Drexler) by analogy with `microtechnology'; and a few machine architectures have a `nanocode' level below `microcode'.
Tom Duff at Bell Labs has also pointed out that "Pi seconds is a nanocentury". See also {{quantifiers}}, {pico-}, {nanoacre}, {nanobot}, {nanocomputer}, {nanofortnight}. :nanoacre: /nan'oh-ay`kr/ n.
A unit (about 2 mm square) of real estate on a VLSI chip.
The term gets its giggle value from the fact that VLSI nanoacres have costs in the same range as real acres once one figures in design and fabrication-setup costs. :nanobot: /nan'oh-bot/ n.
A robot of microscopic proportions, presumably built by means of {{nanotechnology}}.
As yet, only used informally (and speculatively!).
Also called a `nanoagent'. :nanocomputer: /nan'oh-k*m-pyoo'tr/ n.
A computer whose switching elements are molecular in size.
Designs for mechanical nanocomputers which use single-molecule sliding rods for their logic have been proposed.
The controller for a {nanobot} would be a nanocomputer. :nanofortnight: [Adelaide University] n.
1 fortnight * 10^-9, or about 1.2 msec.
This unit was used largely by students doing undergraduate practicals.
See {microfortnight}, {attoparsec}, and {micro-}. :nanotechnology:: /nan'-oh-tek-no`l*-jee/ n.
Nanotechnology has been a hot topic in the hacker subculture ever since the term was coined by K.
Eric Drexler in his book `Engines of Creation', where he predicted that nanotechnology could give rise to replicating assemblers, permitting an exponential growth of productivity and personal wealth.
See also {blue goo}, {gray goo}, {nanobot}. :nasal demons: n.
Someone else followed up with a reference to "nasal demons", which became recognized shorthand on that group for any unexpected behaviour of a C compiler on encountering an undefined construct. :nastygram: /nas'tee-gram/ n.
A protocol packet or item of email (the latter is also called a {letterbomb}) that takes advantage of misfeatures or security holes on the target system to do untoward things.
Disapproving mail, esp. from a {net.god}, pursuant to a violation of {netiquette} or a complaint about failure to correct some mail- or news-transmission problem.
A status report from an unhappy, and probably picky, customer.
What'd Corporate say in today's nastygram?
4. [deprecated] An error reply by mail from a {daemon}; in particular, a {bounce message}. :Nathan Hale: n.
An asterisk (see also {splat}, {{ASCII}}).
Oh, you want an etymology?
Notionally, from "I regret that I have only one asterisk for my country!", a misquote of the famous remark uttered by Nathan Hale just before he was hanged.
Hale was a (failed) spy for the rebels in the American War of Independence. :nature: n.
See {has the X nature}. :neat hack: n.
A brilliant practical joke, where neatness is correlated with cleverness, harmlessness, and surprise value.
Example: the Caltech Rose Bowl card display switch (see "{The Meaning of `Hack'}", appendix A).
See also {hack}. :neats vs. scruffies: n.
The label used to refer to one of the continuing {holy wars} in AI research.
This conflict tangles together two separate issues.
More importantly, `neats' tend to believe that logic is king, while `scruffies' favor looser, more ad-hoc methods driven by empirical knowledge.
More general than {hacker}, as it need not imply more skill than is required to boot games on a PC.
The derived noun `neep-neeping' applies specifically to the long conversations about computers that tend to develop in the corners at most SF-convention parties.
Fandom has a related proverb to the effect that "Hacking is a conversational black hole!". :neophilia: /nee`oh-fil'-ee-*/ n.
The trait of being excited and pleased by novelty.
Common trait of most hackers, SF fans, and members of several other connected leading-edge subcultures, including the pro-technology `Whole Earth' wing of the ecology movement, space activists, many members of Mensa, and the Discordian/neo-pagan underground.
All these groups overlap heavily and (where evidence is available) seem to share characteristic hacker tropisms for science fiction, {{music}}, and {{oriental food}}. :net.-: /net dot/ pref. [USENET] Prefix used to describe people and events related to USENET.
From the time before the {Great Renaming}, when most non-local newsgroups had names beginning `net.'.
Includes {net.god}s, `net.goddesses' (various charismatic net.women with circles of on-line admirers), `net.lurkers' (see {lurker}), `net.person', `net.parties' (a synonym for {boink}, sense 2), and many similar constructs.
See also {net.police}. :net.god: /net god/ n.
Net.goddesses such as Rissa or the Slime Sisters have (so far) been distinguished more by personality than by authority. :net.personality: /net per`sn-al'-*-tee/ n.
Generally used sarcastically or pejoratively.
Also spelled `net police'. See also {net.-}, {code police}. :NetBOLLIX: [from bollix: to bungle] n. {IBM}'s NetBIOS, an extremely {brain-damaged} network protocol which, like {Blue Glue}, is used at commercial shops that don't know any better. :netburp: [IRC] n.
An instance of this is called a `netburp' (or, sometimes, {netsplit}). :netdead: [IRC] n.
The state of someone who signs off {IRC}, perhaps during a {netburp}, and doesn't sign back on until later.
In the interim, he is "dead to the net". :nethack: /net'hak/ [UNIX] n.
A dungeon game similar to {rogue} but more elaborate, distributed in C source over {USENET} and very popular at UNIX sites and on PC-class machines (nethack is probably the most widely distributed of the freeware dungeon games).
The earliest versions, written by Jay Fenlason and later considerably enhanced by Andries Brouwer, were simply called `hack'.
The name changed when maintenance was taken over by a group of hackers originally organized by Mike Stephenson; the current contact address (as of mid-1991) is nethack-bugs@linc.cis.upenn.edu. :netiquette: /net'ee-ket/ or /net'i-ket/ [portmanteau from "network etiquette"] n.
Conventions of politeness recognized on {USENET}, such as avoidance of cross-posting to inappropriate groups or refraining from commercial pluggery on the net. :netlag: [IRC, MUD] n.
The software that makes {USENET} run.
I read netnews right after my mail most mornings." :netrock: /net'rok/ [IBM] n.
A {flame}; used esp. on VNET, IBM's internal corporate network. :netsplit: n.
Loosely, anyone with a {network address}.
More specifically, a {USENET} regular.
Most often found in the plural.
This is mostly functional, but is also a signal that one identifies with hackerdom (like lodge pins among Masons or tie-dyed T-shirts among Grateful Dead fans).
Net addresses are often used in email text as a more concise substitute for personal names; indeed, hackers may come to know each other quite well by network names without ever learning each others' `legal' monikers.
See also {sitename}, {domainist}. :network meltdown: n.
A state of complete network overload; the network equivalent of {thrash}ing.
This may be induced by a {Chernobyl packet}.
See also {broadcast storm}, {kamikaze packet}. :network, the: n.
A site is generally considered `on the network' if it can be reached through some combination of Internet-style (@-sign) and UUCP (bang-path) addresses.
See {bang path}, {{Internet address}}, {network address}.
Are you on the net?" is a frequent question when hackers first meet face to face, and "See you on the net!" is a frequent goodbye. :New Jersey: [primarily Stanford/Silicon Valley] adj.
Brain-damaged or of poor design.
This refers to the allegedly wretched quality of such software as C, C++, and UNIX (which originated at Bell Labs in Murray Hill, New Jersey).
This compiler bites the bag, but what can you expect from a compiler designed in New Jersey?" Compare {Berkeley Quality Software}.
See also {UNIX conspiracy}. :New Testament: n. [C programmers] The second edition of K&R's `The C Programming Language' (Prentice-Hall, 1988; ISBN 0-13-110362-8), describing ANSI Standard C.
See {K&R}. :newbie: /n[y]oo'bee/ n. [orig. from British public-school and military slang variant of `new boy'] A USENET neophyte. This term surfaced in the {newsgroup} talk.bizarre but is now in wide use.
Criteria for being considered a newbie vary wildly; a person can be called a newbie in one newsgroup while remaining a respected regular in another.
The label `newbie' is sometimes applied as a serious insult to a person who has been around USENET for a long time but who carefully hides all evidence of having a clue.
See {BIFF}. :newgroup wars: /n[y]oo'groop wohrz/ [USENET] n.
The salvos of dueling `newgroup' and `rmgroup' messages sometimes exchanged by persons on opposite sides of a dispute over whether a {newsgroup} should be created net-wide.
These usually settle out within a week or two as it becomes clear whether the group has a natural constituency (usually, it doesn't).
1. [techspeak, primarily UNIX] The ASCII LF character (0001010), used under {{UNIX}} as a text line terminator.
More generally, any magic character, character sequence, or operation (like Pascal's writeln procedure) required to terminate a text record or separate lines.
See {crlf}, {terpri}. :NeWS: /nee'wis/, /n[y]oo'is/ or /n[y]ooz/ [acronym; the `Network Window System'] n.
The road not taken in window systems, an elegant {PostScript}-based environment that would almost certainly have won the standards war with {X} if it hadn't been {proprietary} to Sun Microsystems.
There is a lesson here that too many software vendors haven't yet heeded.
Many hackers insist on the two-syllable pronunciations above as a way of distinguishing NeWS from {news} (the {netnews} software). :news: n.
See {netnews}. :newsfroup: // [USENET] n.
Silly synonym for {newsgroup}, originally a typo but now in regular use on USENET's talk.bizarre and other lunatic-fringe groups.
Compare {hing} and {filk}. :newsgroup: [USENET] n.
One of {USENET}'s huge collection of topic groups or {fora}.
Usenet groups can be `unmoderated' (anyone can post) or `moderated' (submissions are automatically directed to a moderator, who edits or filters and then posts the results).
Some newsgroups have parallel {mailing list}s for Internet people with no netnews access, with postings to the group automatically propagated to the list and vice versa.
On {IRC}, every user must pick a nick, which is sometimes the same as the user's real name or login name, but is often more fanciful. :nickle: /ni'kl/ [from `nickel', common name for the U.S. 5-cent coin] n.
A {nybble} + 1; 5 bits.
Reported among developers for Mattel's GI 1600 (the Intellivision games processor), a chip with 16-bit-wide RAM but 10-bit-wide ROM.
See also {deckle}. :night mode: n.
See {phase} (of people). :Nightmare File System: n.
Pejorative hackerism for Sun's Network File System (NFS).
In any nontrivial network of Suns where there is a lot of NFS cross-mounting, when one Sun goes down, the others often freeze up.
Some machine tries to access the down one, and (getting no response) repeats indefinitely.
This causes it to appear dead to some messages (what is actually happening is that it is locked up in what should have been a brief excursion to a higher {spl} level).
Then another machine tries to reach either the down machine or the pseudo-down machine, and itself becomes pseudo-down.
The first machine to discover the down one is now trying both to access the down one and to respond to the pseudo-down one, so it is even harder to reach.
This situation snowballs very fast, and soon the entire network of machines is frozen --- worst of all, the user can't even abort the file access that started the problem!
Most hackers assume this derives simply from LISP terminology for `false' (see also {T}), but NIL as a negative reply was well-established among radio hams decades before the advent of LISP.
The historical connection between early hackerdom and the ham radio word was strong enough that this may have been an influence. :NMI: /N-M-I/ n.
An IRQ 7 on the PDP-11 or 680[01234]0; the NMI line on an 80[1234]86.
In contrast with a {priority interrupt} (which might be ignored, although that is unlikely), an NMI is *never* ignored. :no-op: /noh'op/ alt.
NOP /nop/ [no operation] n.
1. (also v.) A machine instruction that does nothing (sometimes used in assembler-level programming as filler for data or patch areas, or to overwrite code to be removed in binaries).
A person who contributes nothing to a project, or has nothing going on upstairs, or both.
As in "He's a no-op.
Oh, well, that was a no-op.
Hot-and-sour soup (see {great-wall}) that is insufficiently either is `no-op soup'; so is wonton soup if everybody else is having hot-and-sour. :noddy: /nod'ee/ [UK: from the children's books] adj. 1.
Small and un-useful, but demonstrating a point.
Noddy programs are often written by people learning a new language or system.
The archetypal noddy program is {hello, world}.
Noddy code may be used to demonstrate a feature or bug of a compiler.
May be used of real hardware or software to imply that it isn't worth using. "This editor's a bit noddy.
A program that is more or less instant to produce.
In this use, the term does not necessarily connote uselessness, but describes a {hack} sufficiently trivial that it can be written and debugged while carrying on (and during the space of) a normal conversation.
I'll just throw together a noddy {awk} script to dump all the first fields.
In North America this might be called a {mickey mouse program}.
See {toy program}. :NOMEX underwear: /noh'meks uhn'-der-weir/ [USENET] n.
Syn. {asbestos longjohns}, used mostly in auto-related mailing lists and newsgroups.
NOMEX underwear is an actual product available on the racing equipment market, used as a fire resistance measure and required in some racing series. :Nominal Semidestructor: n.
Sound-alike slang for `National Semiconductor', found among other places in the 4.3BSD networking sources.
During the late 1970s to mid-1980s this company marketed a series of microprocessors including the NS16000 and NS32000 and several variants.
They eventually sank without trace, joining the Zilog Z80,000 and a few even more obscure also-rans in the graveyard of forgotten microprocessors.
Compare {HP-SUX}, {AIDX}, {buglix}, {Macintrash}, {Telerat}, {Open DeathTrap}, {ScumOS}, {sun-stools}. :non-optimal solution: n. (also `sub-optimal solution') An astoundingly stupid way to do something.
This term is generally used in deadpan sarcasm, as its impact is greatest when the person speaking looks completely serious.
See also {Bad Thing}. :nonlinear: adj. [scientific computation] 1.
Behaving in an erratic and unpredictable fashion; unstable.
When used to describe the behavior of a machine or program, it suggests that said machine or program is being forced to run far outside of design specifications.
This behavior may be induced by unreasonable inputs, or may be triggered when a more mundane bug sends the computation far off from its expected course.
When describing the behavior of a person, suggests a tantrum or a {flame}. "When you talk to Bob, don't mention the drug problem or he'll go nonlinear for hours.
In this context, `go nonlinear' connotes `blow up out of proportion' (proportion connotes linearity). :nontrivial: adj.
Requiring real thought or significant computing power.
Often used as an understated way of saying that a problem is quite difficult or impractical, or even entirely unsolvable ("Proving P=NP is nontrivial").
The preferred emphatic form is `decidedly nontrivial'.
See {trivial}, {uninteresting}, {interesting}. :notwork: /not'werk/ n.
A network, when it is acting {flaky} or is {down}.
Said at IBM to have orig. referred to a particular period of flakiness on IBM's VNET corporate network, ca. 1988; but there are independent reports of the term from elsewhere. :NP-: /N-P/ pref.
This is generalized from the computer-science terms `NP-hard' and `NP-complete'.
A companion program to the UNIX typesetter `troff', accepting identical input but preparing output for terminals and line printers. :NSA line eater: n.
The National Security Agency trawling program sometimes assumed to be reading {USENET} for the U.S.
Most hackers describe it as a mythical beast, but some believe it actually exists, more aren't sure, and many believe in acting as though it exists just in case.
Some netters put loaded phrases like `KGB', `Uzi', `nuclear materials', `Palestine', `cocaine', and `assassination' in their {sig block}s in a (probably futile) attempt to confuse and overload the creature.
This one was making the rounds in the late 1970s, spread by people who had no idea of then-current technology or the storage, signal-processing, or speech recognition needs of such a project.
On the basis of mass-storage costs alone it would have been cheaper to hire 50 high-school students and just let them listen in. Speech-recognition technology can't do this job even now (1991), and almost certainly won't in this millennium, either.
The peak of silliness came with a letter to an alternative paper in New Haven, Connecticut, laying out the factoids of this Big Brotherly affair.
To intentionally delete the entire contents of a given directory or storage volume.
On UNIX, `rm -r /usr' will nuke everything in the usr filesystem.
Never used for accidental deletion.
Syn. for {dike}, applied to smaller things such as files, features, or code sections.
Often used to express a final verdict.
What do you want me to do with that 80-meg {wallpaper} file?
Used of processes as well as files; nuke is a frequent verbal alias for `kill -9' on UNIX.
On IBM PCs, a bug that results in {fandango on core} can trash the operating system, including the FAT (the in-core copy of the disk block chaining information).
This can utterly scramble attached disks, which are then said to have been `nuked'.
This term is also used of analogous lossages on Macintoshes and other micros without memory protection. :number-crunching: n.
Computations of a numerical nature, esp. those that make extensive use of floating-point numbers.
The only thing {Fortrash} is good for.
This term is in widespread informal use outside hackerdom and even in mainstream slang, but has additional hackish connotations: namely, that the computations are mindless and involve massive use of {brute force}.
This is not always {evil}, esp. if it involves ray tracing or fractals or some other use that makes {pretty pictures}, esp. if such pictures can be used as {wallpaper}.
See also {crunch}. :numbers: [scientific computation] n.
Output of a computation that may not be significant results but at least indicate that the program is running.
May be used to placate management, grant sponsors, etc. `Making numbers' means running a program because output --- any output, not necessarily meaningful output --- is needed as a demonstration of progress.
See {pretty pictures}, {math-out}, {social science number}. :NUXI problem: /nuk'see pro'bl*m/ n.
This refers to the problem of transferring data between machines with differing byte-order.
The string `UNIX' might look like `NUXI' on a machine with a different `byte sex' (e.g., when transferring data from a {little-endian} to a {big-endian}, or vice-versa).
See also {middle-endian}, {swab}, and {bytesexual}. :nybble: /nib'l/ (alt. `nibble') [from v. `nibble' by analogy with `bite' => `byte'] n.
Four bits; one {hex} digit; a half-byte.
Though `byte' is now techspeak, this useful relative is still jargon.
Compare {{byte}}, {crumb}, {tayste}, {dynner}; see also {bit}, {nickle}, {deckle}.
Apparently this spelling is uncommon in Commonwealth Hackish, as British orthography suggests the pronunciation /ni:'bl/. :nyetwork: /nyet'werk/ [from Russian `nyet' = no] n.
Compare {notwork}. = O = ===== :Ob-: /ob/ pref.
A piece of {netiquette} acknowledging that the author has been straying from the newsgroup's charter topic.
It is considered a sign of great {winnitude} when your Obs are more interesting than other people's whole postings. :Obfuscated C Contest: n.
An annual contest run since 1984 over USENET by Landon Curt Noll and friends.
The overall winner is whoever produces the most unreadable, creative, and bizarre (but working) C program; various other prizes are awarded at the judges' whim.
C's terse syntax and macro-preprocessor facilities give contestants a lot of maneuvering room.
A loop of some sort in which the index is off by 1.
Common when the index should have started from 0 but instead started from 1.
A kind of {off-by-one error}.
See also {zeroth}. :Objectionable-C: n.
Hackish take on "Objective-C", the name of an object-oriented dialect of C in competition with the better-known C++ (it is used to write native applications on the NeXT machine).
Objectionable-C uses a Smalltalk-like syntax, but lacks the flexibility of Smalltalk method calls, and (like many such efforts) comes frustratingly close to attaining the {Right Thing} without actually doing so. :obscure: adj.
Used in an exaggeration of its normal meaning, to imply total incomprehensibility.
The reason for that last crash is obscure.
The `find(1)' command's syntax is obscure!" The phrase `moderately obscure' implies that it could be figured out but probably isn't worth the trouble.
The construction `obscure in the extreme' is the preferred emphatic form. :octal forty: /ok'tl for'tee/ n.
Hackish way of saying "I'm drawing a blank.
Octal 40 is the {{ASCII}} space character, 0100000; by an odd coincidence, {hex} 40 (01000000) is the {{EBCDIC}} space character.
See {wall}. :off the trolley: adj.
Describes the behavior of a program that malfunctions and goes catatonic, but doesn't actually {crash} or abort.
See {glitch}, {bug}, {deep space}. :off-by-one error: n.
Exceedingly common error induced in many ways, such as by starting at 0 when you should have started at 1 or vice versa, or by writing `< N' instead of `<= N' or vice-versa.
Also applied to giving something to the person next to the one who should have gotten it.
Often confounded with {fencepost error}, which is properly a particular subtype of it. :offline: adv.
Not now or not here.
Let's take this discussion offline.
Specifically used on {USENET} to suggest that a discussion be taken off a public newsgroup to email. :old fart: n.
At mainframe shops, where the computers have operators for routine administrivia, the programmers and hardware people tend to look down on the operators and claim that a trained monkey could do their job.
It is frequently observed that the incentives which would be offered said monkeys can be used as a scale to describe the difficulty of a task.
A one-banana problem is simple; hence "It's only a one-banana job at the most; what's taking them so long?" At IBM, folklore divides the world into one-, two-, and three-banana problems.
Other cultures have different hierarchies and may divide them more finely; at ICL, for example, five grapes (a bunch) equals a banana.
Their upper limit for the in-house {sysape}s is said to be two bananas and three grapes (another source claims it's three bananas and one grape, but observes "However, this is subject to local variations, cosmic rays and ISO").
At a complication level any higher than that, one asks the manufacturers to send someone around to check things. :one-line fix: n.
Used (often sarcastically) of a change to a program that is thought to be trivial or insignificant right up to the moment it crashes the system.
Usually `cured' by another one-line fix.
See also {I didn't change anything!} :one-liner wars: n.
A bizarre semi-liquid sludge made from cornstarch and water.
Enjoyed among hackers who make batches during playtime at parties for its amusing and extremely non-Newtonian behavior; it pours and splatters, but resists rapid motion like a solid and will even crack when hit by a hammer.
For optional ingredients of this experience, see the "{Ceremonial Chemicals}" section of {appendix B}. :op: /op/ [IRC] n.
Someone who is endowed with privileges on {IRC}, not limited to a particular channel.
These are generally people who are in charge of the IRC server at their particular site.
Sometimes used interchangably with {CHOP}.
Abbreviation for `open (or left) parenthesis' --- used when necessary to eliminate oral ambiguity.
To read aloud the LISP form (DEFUN FOO (X) (PLUS X 1)) one might say: "Open defun foo, open eks close, open, plus eks one, close close." :Open DeathTrap: n.
Abusive hackerism for the Santa Cruz Operation's `Open DeskTop' product, a Motif-based graphical interface over their UNIX.
The funniest part is that this was coined by SCO's own developers...compare {AIDX}, {terminak}, {Macintrash} {Nominal Semidestructor}, {ScumOS}, {sun-stools}, {HP-SUX}. :open switch: [IBM: prob. from railroading] n.
An unresolved question, issue, or problem. :operating system:: [techspeak] n. (Often abbreviated `OS') The foundation software of a machine, of course; that which schedules tasks, allocates storage, and presents a default interface to the user between applications.
The facilities an operating system provides and its general design philosophy exert an extremely strong influence on programming style and on the technical cultures that grow up around its host machines.
Hacker folklore has been shaped primarily by the {{UNIX}}, {{ITS}}, {{TOPS-10}}, {{TOPS-20}}/{{TWENEX}}, {{WAITS}}, {{CP/M}}, {{MS-DOS}}, and {{Multics}} operating systems (most importantly by ITS and UNIX). :optical diff: n.
See {vdiff}. :optical grep: n.
See {vgrep}. :Orange Book: n.
Government's standards document `Trusted Computer System Evaluation Criteria, DOD standard 5200.28-STD, December, 1985' which characterize secure computing architectures and defines levels A1 (most secure) through D (least).
Stock UNIXes are roughly C1, and can be upgraded to about C2 without excessive pain.
See also {{book titles}}. :oriental food:: n.
Hackers display an intense tropism towards oriental cuisine, especially Chinese, and especially of the spicier varieties such as Szechuan and Hunan.
Thai, Indian, Korean, and Vietnamese cuisines are also quite popular. :orphan: [UNIX] n.
A process whose parent has died; one inherited by `init(1)'.
Compare {zombie}. :orphaned i-node: /or'f*nd i:'nohd/ [UNIX] n.
1. [techspeak] A file that retains storage but no longer appears in the directories of a filesystem.
By extension, a pejorative for any person serving no useful function within some organization, esp. {lion food} without subordinates. :orthogonal: [from mathematics] adj.
Mutually independent; well separated; sometimes, irrelevant to.
Used in a generalization of its mathematical meaning to describe sets of primitives or capabilities that, like a vector basis in geometry, span the entire `capability space' of the system and are in some sense non-overlapping or mutually independent.
For example, in architectures such as the PDP-11 or VAX where all or nearly all registers can be used interchangeably in any role with respect to any instruction, the register set is said to be orthogonal.
Or, in logic, the set of operators `not' and `or' is orthogonal, but the set `nand', `or', and `not' is not (because any one of these can be expressed in terms of the others).
Also used in comments on human discourse: "This may be orthogonal to the discussion, but...." :OS: /O-S/ 1. [Operating System] n.
An abbreviation heavily used in email, occasionally in speech.
On ITS, an output spy.
See "{OS and JEDGAR}" (in {appendix A}). :OS/2: /O S too/ n.
The anointed successor to MS-DOS for Intel 286- and 386-based micros; proof that IBM/Microsoft couldn't get it right the second time, either.
It looks as though OS/2 is moribund.
See {vaporware}, {monstrosity}, {cretinous}, {second-system effect}. :out-of-band: [from telecommunications and network theory] adj. 1.
In software, describes values of a function which are not in its `natural' range of return values, but are rather signals that some kind of exception has occurred.
Many C functions, for example, return either a nonnegative integral value, or indicate failure with an out-of-band return value of -1.
Compare {hidden flag}, {green bytes}.
Also sometimes used to describe what communications people call `shift characters', like the ESC that leads control sequences for many terminals, or the level shift indicators in the old 5-bit Baudot codes.
In personal communication, using methods other than email, such as telephones or {snail-mail}. :overflow bit: n.
1. [techspeak] On some processors, an attempt to calculate a result too large for a register to hold causes a particular {flag} called an {overflow bit} to be set. 2.
Hackers use the term of human thought too.
Well, the {{Ada}} description was {baroque} all right, but I could hack it OK until they got to the exception handling ... that set my overflow bit." 3.
The hypothetical bit that will be set if a hacker doesn't get to make a trip to the Room of Porcelain Fixtures: "I'd better process an internal interrupt before the overflow bit gets set". :overflow pdl: [MIT] n.
The place where you put things when your {pdl} is full.
If you don't have one and too many things get pushed, you forget something.
The overflow pdl for a person's memory might be a memo pad.
1. [techspeak] Term for a frequent consequence of data arriving faster than it can be consumed, esp. in serial line communications.
Also applied to non-serial-I/O communications.
I forgot to pay my electric bill due to mail overrun.
Sorry, I got four phone calls in 3 minutes last night and lost your message to overrun." When {thrash}ing at tasks, the next person to make a request might be told "Overrun!
More loosely, may refer to a {buffer overflow} not necessarily related to processing time (as in {overrun screw}). :overrun screw: [C programming] n.
A variety of {fandango on core} produced by scribbling past the end of an array (C implementations typically have no checks for this error).
This is relatively benign and easy to spot if the array is static; if it is auto, the result may be to {smash the stack} --- often resulting in {heisenbug}s of the most diabolical subtlety.
See {spam}, {overrun}; see also {memory leak}, {memory smash}, {aliasing bug}, {precedence lossage}, {fandango on core}, {secondary damage}. = P = ===== :P.O.D.: /P-O-D/ Acronym for `Piece Of Data' (as opposed to a code section).
See also {pod}. :padded cell: n.
Where you put {luser}s so they can't hurt anything.
A program that limits a luser to a carefully restricted subset of the capabilities of the host system (for example, the `rsh(1)' utility on USG UNIX).
Note that this is different from an {iron box} because it is overt and not aimed at enforcing security so much as protecting others (and the luser) from the consequences of the luser's boundless na"ivet'e (see {na"ive}).
Also `padded cell environment'. :page in: [MIT] vi.
To become aware of one's surroundings again after having paged out (see {page out}).
Usually confined to the sarcastic comment: "Eric pages in. Film at 11.
Syn. `swap in'; see {swap}. :page out: [MIT] vi.
To become unaware of one's surroundings temporarily, due to daydreaming or preoccupation.
I paged out for a minute.
Syn. `swap out'; see {swap}. :pain in the net: n.
Hackish way of referring to the postal service, analogizing it to a very slow, low-reliability network.
USENET {sig block}s not uncommonly include a "Paper-Net:" header just before the sender's postal address; common variants of this are "Papernet" and "P-Net".
Compare {voice-net}, {snail-mail}. :param: /p*-ram'/ n.
See also {parm}; compare {arg}, {var}. :PARC: n.
See {XEROX PARC}. :parent message: n.
See {followup}. :parity errors: pl.n.
Little lapses of attention or (in more severe cases) consciousness, usually brought on by having spent all night and most of the next day hacking.
I need to go home and crash; I'm starting to get a lot of parity errors.
Derives from a relatively common but nearly always correctable transient error in RAM hardware. :Parkinson's Law of Data: prov.
Data expands to fill the space available for storage"; buying more memory encourages the use of more memory-intensive techniques.
It has been observed over the last 10 years that the memory usage of evolving systems tends to double roughly once every 18 months.
Fortunately, memory density available for constant dollars tends to double about once every 12 months (see {Moore's Law}); unfortunately, the laws of physics guarantee that the latter cannot continue indefinitely. :parm: /parm/ n.
This term is an IBMism, and written use is almost unknown outside IBM shops; spoken /parm/ is more widely distributed, but the synonym {arg} is favored among hackers.
Compare {arg}, {var}. :parse: [from linguistic terminology] vt. 1.
To determine the syntactic structure of a sentence or other utterance (close to the standard English meaning).
That was the one I saw you.
More generally, to understand or comprehend.
It's very simple; you just kretch the glims and then aos the zotz.
Of fish, to have to remove the bones yourself.
I object to parsing fish", means "I don't want to get a whole fish, but a sliced one is okay".
A `parsed fish' has been deboned.
There is some controversy over whether `unparsed' should mean `bony', or also mean `deboned'. :Pascal:: n.
An Algol-descended language designed by Niklaus Wirth on the CDC 6600 around 1967--68 as an instructional tool for elementary programming.
It was eventually published in "Comparing and Assessing Programming Languages", edited by Alan Feuer and Narain Gehani (Prentice-Hall, 1984).
Part of his discussion is worth repeating here, because its criticisms are still apposite to Pascal itself after ten years of improvement and could also stand as an indictment of many other bondage-and-discipline languages.
At the end of a summary of the case against Pascal, Kernighan wrote: 9.
There is no escape This last point is perhaps the most important.
The language is inadequate but circumscribed, because there is no way to escape its limitations.
There are no casts to disable the type-checking when necessary.
There is no way to replace the defective run-time environment with a sensible one, unless one controls the compiler that defines the "standard procedures".
The language is closed. People who use Pascal for serious programming fall into a fatal trap.
Because the language is impotent, it must be extended.
But each group extends Pascal in its own direction, to make it look like whatever language they really want.
An adhesive-backed label designed to be attached to a key on a keyboard to indicate some non-standard character which can be accessed through that key.
Pasties are likely to be used in APL environments, where almost every key is associated with a special character.
A pastie on the R key, for example, would remind the user that it is used to generate the rho character.
The term properly refers to nipple-concealing devices formerly worn by strippers in concession to indecent-exposure laws; compare {tits on a keyboard}. :patch: 1. n.
A temporary addition to a piece of code, usually as a {quick-and-dirty} remedy to an existing bug or misfeature.
A patch may or may not work, and may or may not eventually be incorporated permanently into the program.
2. vt. To insert a patch into a piece of code.
3. [in the UNIX world] n.
A set of modifications to binaries to be applied by a patching program.
IBM operating systems often receive updates to the operating system in the form of absolute hexadecimal patches.
If you have modified your OS, you have to disassemble these back to the source.
The patches might later be corrected by other patches on top of them (patches were said to "grow scar tissue").
The result was often a convoluted {patch space} and headaches galore.
The patch was actually the trapdoor they needed.
The patch was distributed at about the right time for an IBM patch, had official stationery and all accompanying documentation, and was dutifully installed.
The installation manager very shortly thereafter learned something about proper procedures. :patch space: n.
The widening use of HLLs has made this term rare; it is now primarily historical outside IBM shops.
See {patch} (sense 4), {zap} (sense 4), {hook}. :path: n.
A {bang path} or explicitly routed {{Internet address}}; a node-by-node specification of a link between two machines.
2. [UNIX] A filename, fully specified relative to the root directory (as opposed to relative to the current directory; the latter is sometimes called a `relative path').
This is also called a `pathname'.
1. [scientific computation] Used of a data set that is grossly atypical of normal expected input, esp. one that exposes a weakness or bug in whatever algorithm one is using.
An algorithm that can be broken by pathological inputs may still be useful if such inputs are very unlikely to occur in practice. 2.
When used of test input, implies that it was purposefully engineered as a worst case.
The implication in both senses is that the data is spectacularly ill-conditioned or that someone had to explicitly set out to break the algorithm in order to come up with such a crazy example.
Also said of an unlikely collection of circumstances.
If the network is down and comes up halfway through the execution of that command by root, the system may just crash.
Yes, but that's a pathological case.
Oppose {shareware} or {freeware}. :PBD: /P-B-D/ [abbrev. of `Programmer Brain Damage'] n.
Applied to bug reports revealing places where the program was obviously broken by an incompetent or short-sighted programmer.
Compare {UBD}; see also {brain-damaged}. :PC-ism: /P-C-izm/ n.
Also, `PC-ware' n., a program full of PC-isms on a machine with a more capable operating system.
Common abbreviation for `public domain', applied to software distributed over {USENET} and from Internet archive sites.
Much of this software is not in fact public domain in the legal sense but travels under various copyrights granting reproduction and use rights to anyone who can {snarf} a copy.
See {copyleft}. :pdl: /pid'l/ or /puhd'l/ [abbreviation for `Push Down List'] 1. n.
In ITS days, the preferred MITism for {stack}.
Dave Lebling, one of the co-authors of {Zork}; (his {network address} on the ITS machines was at one time pdl@dms).
3. n. `Program Design Language'.
Any of a large class of formal and profoundly useless pseudo-languages in which {management} forces one to design programs. {Management} often expects it to be maintained in parallel with the code.
To design using a program design language.
I've been pdling so long my eyes won't focus beyond 2 feet.
5. n. `Page Description Language'.
The machine that made timesharing real.
It looms large in hacker folklore because of its adoption in the mid-1970s by many university computing facilities and research labs, including the MIT AI Lab, Stanford, and CMU.
Some aspects of the instruction set (most notably the bit-field instructions) are still considered unsurpassed.
Much hacking on small, non-MMU micros consists of `peek'ing around memory, more or less at random, to find the location where the system keeps interesting stuff.
Long (and variably accurate) lists of such addresses for various computers circulate (see {{interrupt list, the}}).
An archaic information storage and transmission device that works by depositing smears of graphite on bleached wood pulp.
More recent developments in paper-based technology include improved `write-once' update devices which use tiny rolling heads similar to mouse balls to deposit colored pigment.
All these devices require an operator skilled at so-called `handwriting' technique.
These technologies are ubiquitous outside hackerdom, but nearly forgotten inside it.
Most hackers had terrible handwriting to begin with, and years of keyboarding tend to have encouraged it to degrade further.
Perhaps for this reason, hackers deprecate pencil-and-paper technology and often resist using it in any but the most trivial contexts.
See also {appendix B}. :peon: n.
A person with no special ({root} or {wheel}) privileges on a computer system.
I can't create an account on *foovax* for you; I'm only a peon there." :percent-S: /per-sent' es'/ [From the code in C's `printf(3)' library function used to insert an arbitrary string argument] n.
An unspecified person or object.
I was just talking to some percent-s in administration.
Compare {random}. :perf: /perf/ n.
The term `perfory' /per'f*-ree/ is also heard.
The term {perf} may also refer to the preforations themselves, rather than the chad they produce when torn. :perfect programmer syndrome: n.
Arrogance; the egotistical conviction that one is above normal human error.
Most frequently found among programmers of some native ability but relatively little experience (especially new graduates; their perceptions may be distorted by a history of excellent performance at solving {toy problem}s).
Of course my program is correct, there is no need to test it.
Yes, I can see there may be a problem here, but *I'll* never type `rm -r /' while in {root}." :Perl: /perl/ [Practical Extraction and Report Language, a.k.a Pathologically Eclectic Rubbish Lister] n.
An interpreted language developed by Larry Wall <lwall@jpl.nasa.gov>, author of `patch(1)' and `rn(1)') and distributed over USENET. Superficially resembles `awk(1)', but is much hairier (see {awk}).
UNIX sysadmins, who are almost always incorrigible hackers, increasingly consider it one of the {languages of choice}.
Perl has been described, in a parody of a famous remark about `lex(1)', as the "Swiss-Army chainsaw" of UNIX programming. :pessimal: /pes'im-l/ [Latin-based antonym for `optimal'] adj. Maximally bad.
This is a pessimal situation.
Also `pessimize' vt. To make as bad as possible.
These words are the obvious Latin-based antonyms for `optimal' and `optimize', but for some reason they do not appear in most English dictionaries, although `pessimize' is listed in the OED. :pessimizing compiler: /pes'*-mi:z`ing k*m-pi:l'r/ [antonym of `optimizing compiler'] n.
A compiler that produces object code that is worse than the straightforward or obvious hand translation.
The implication is that the compiler is actually trying to optimize the program, but through excessive cleverness is doing the opposite.
A few pessimizing compilers have been written on purpose, however, as pranks or burlesques. :peta-: /pe't*/ [SI] pref.
See {{quantifiers}}. :PETSCII: /pet'skee/ [abbreviation of PET ASCII] n.
The variation (many would say perversion) of the {{ASCII}} character set used by the Commodore Business Machines PET series of personal computers and the later Commodore C64, C16, and C128 machines.
The PETSCII set used left-arrow and up-arrow (as in old-style ASCII) instead of underscore and caret, placed the unshifted alphabet at positions 65--90, put the shifted alphabet at positions 193--218, and added graphics characters. :phase: 1. n.
The phase of one's waking-sleeping schedule with respect to the standard 24-hour cycle.
This is a useful concept among people who often work at night and/or according to no fixed schedule.
It is not uncommon to change one's phase by as much as 6 hours per day on a regular basis.
I've been getting in about 8 P.M. lately, but I'm going to {wrap around} to the day schedule by Friday.
3. `change phase the easy way': To stay asleep, etc. However, some claim that either staying awake longer or sleeping longer is easy, and that it is *shortening* your day or night that's hard (see {wrap around}).
The `jet lag' that afflicts travelers who cross many time-zone boundaries may be attributed to two distinct causes: the strain of travel per se, and the strain of changing phase.
Hackers who suddenly find that they must change phase drastically in a short period of time, particularly the hard way, experience something very like jet lag without traveling. :phase of the moon: n.
Used humorously as a random parameter on which something is said to depend.
Sometimes implies unreliability of whatever is dependent, or that reliability seems to be dependent on conditions nobody has been able to determine.
There is a little subroutine that had traditionally been used in various programs at MIT to calculate an approximation to the moon's true phase.
GLS incorporated this routine into a LISP program that, when it wrote out a file, would print a timestamp line almost 80 characters long.
Very occasionally the first line of the message would be too long and would overflow onto the next line, and when the file was later read back in the program would {barf}.
This has since been described as the phase-of-the-moon-bug bug. :phase-wrapping: [MIT] n.
Syn. {wrap around}, sense 2. :phreaking: /freek'ing/ [from `phone phreak'] n.
The art and science of cracking the phone network (so as, for example, to make free long-distance calls).
There was significant crossover between the hacker community and the hard-core phone phreaks who ran semi-underground networks of their own through such media as the legendary `TAP Newsletter'.
This ethos began to break down in the mid-1980s as wider dissemination of the techniques put them in the hands of less responsible phreaks.
Around the same time, changes in the phone network made old-style technical ingenuity less effective as a way of hacking it, so phreaking came to depend more on overtly criminal acts such as stealing phone-card numbers.
The crimes and punishments of gangs like the `414 group' turned that game very ugly.
Smaller than {nano-}; used in the same rather loose connotative way as {nano-} and {micro-}.
This usage is not yet common in the way {nano-} and {micro-} are, but should be instantly recognizable to any hacker.
See also {{quantifiers}}, {micro-}. :pig, run like a: v.
To run very slowly on given hardware, said of software.
Distinct from {hog}. :pilot error: [Sun: from aviation] n.
A user's misconfiguration or misuse of a piece of software, producing apparently buglike results (compare {UBD}).
Joe Luser reported a bug in sendmail that causes it to generate bogus headers.
That's not a bug, that's pilot error.
His `sendmail.cf' is hosed." :ping: [from the TCP/IP acronym `Packet INternet Groper', prob. originally contrived to match the submariners' term for a sonar pulse] 1. n.
Slang term for a small network message (ICMP ECHO) sent by a computer to check for the presence and aliveness of another.
Occasionally used as a phone greeting.
2. vt. To verify the presence of.
3. vt. To get the attention of.
From the UNIX command `ping(1)' that sends an ICMP ECHO packet to another host.
4. vt. To send a message to all members of a {mailing list} requesting an {ACK} (in order to verify that everybody's addresses are reachable).
We haven't heard much of anything from Geoff, but he did respond with an ACK both times I pinged jargon-friends.
A quantum packet of happiness.
People who are very happy tend to exude pings; furthermore, one can intentionally create pings and aim them at a needy party (e.g. a depressed person).
This sense of ping may appear as an exclamation; "Ping!" (I'm happy; I am emitting a quantum of happiness; I have been struck by a quantum of happiness).
So he used the sound-recording feature on the NeXT, then wrote a script that repeatedly invoked `ping(8)', listened for an echo, and played back the recording on each returned packet. Result?
A program that caused the machine to repeat, over and over, "Ping ... ping ... ping ..." as long as the network was up.
He turned the volume to maximum, ferreted through the building with one ear cocked, and found a faulty tee connector in no time. :Pink-Shirt Book: `The Peter Norton Programmer's Guide to the IBM PC'.
The original cover featured a picture of Peter Norton with a silly smirk on his face, wearing a pink shirt.
Perhaps in recognition of this usage, the current edition has a different picture of Norton wearing a pink shirt.
See also {{book titles}}. :PIP: /pip/ [Peripheral Interchange Program] vt.,obs.
A tool that makes it all too easy for you to shoot yourself in the foot.
UNIX `rm *' makes such a nice pistol!" :pizza box: [Sun] n.
It's an index of progress that in the old days just the disk was pizza-sized, while now the entire computer is. :pizza, ANSI standard: /an'see stan'd*rd peet'z*/ [CMU] Pepperoni and mushroom pizza.
Coined allegedly because most pizzas ordered by CMU hackers during some period leading up to mid-1990 were of that flavor.
See also {rotary debugger}; compare {tea, ISO standard cup of}. :plaid screen: [XEROX PARC] n.
A `special effect' which occurs when certain kinds of {memory smash}es overwrite the control blocks or image memory of a bit-mapped display.
On systems that support {finger}, the `.plan' file in a user's home directory is displayed when the user is fingered.
This feature was originally intended to be used to keep potential fingerers apprised of one's location and near-future plans, but has been turned almost universally to humorous and self-expressive purposes (like a {sig block}).
See {Hacking X for Y}. :platinum-iridium: adj.
Standard, against which all others of the same category are measured.
From 1960 to 1984 it was defined to be 1650763.73 wavelengths of the orange-red line of krypton-86 propagating in a vacuum.
It is now defined as the length of the path traveled by light in a vacuum in the time interval of 1/299,792,458 of a second.
The kilogram is now the only unit of measure officially defined in terms of a unique artifact.) "This garbage-collection algorithm has been tested against the platinum-iridium cons cell in Paris.
Compare {golden}. :playpen: [IBM] n.
A room where programmers work.
Compare {salt mines}. :playte: /playt/ 16 bits, by analogy with {nybble} and {{byte}}.
See also {dynner} and {crumb}. :plingnet: /pling'net/ n.
Also see {{Commonwealth Hackish}}, which uses `pling' for {bang} (as in {bang path}). :plokta: /plok't*/ [Acronym for `Press Lots Of Keys To Abort'] v.
To press random keys in an attempt to get some response from the system.
One might plokta when the abort procedure for a program is not known, or when trying to figure out if the system is just sluggish or really hung.
Used almost exclusively in the {newsgroup} talk.bizarre, this term (usually written "*plonk*") is a form of public ridicule. :plugh: /ploogh/ [from the {ADVENT} game] v.
See {xyzzy}. :plumbing: [UNIX] n.
Term used for {shell} code, so called because of the prevalence of `pipelines' that feed the output of one program to the input of another.
A few other OSs such as IBM's VM/CMS support similar facilities.
Esp. used in the construction `hairy plumbing' (see {hairy}).
You can kluge together a basic spell-checker out of `sort(1)', `comm(1)', and `tr(1)' with a little plumbing.
See also {tee}. :PM: /P-M/ 1. v. (from `preventive maintenance') To bring down a machine for inspection or test purposes; see {scratch monkey}.
Abbrev. for `Presentation Manager', an {elephantine} OS/2 graphical user interface.
See also {provocative maintenance}. :pnambic: /p*-nam'bik/ [Acronym from the scene in the film version of `The Wizard of Oz' in which the true nature of the wizard is first discovered: "Pay no attention to the man behind the curtain."] 1.
Of or pertaining to a process or function whose apparent operations are wholly or partially falsified. 3.
Requiring {prestidigitization}. The ultimate pnambic product was "Dan Bricklin's Demo", a program which supported flashy user-interface design prototyping.
There is a related maxim among hackers: "Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from a rigged demo.
See {magic}, sense 1, for illumination of this point. :pod: [allegedly from abbreviation POD for `Prince Of Darkness'] n.
A Diablo 630 (or, latterly, any letter-quality impact printer).
From the DEC-10 PODTYPE program used to feed formatted text to it. See also {P.O.D.} :point-and-drool interface: n.
Parody of the techspeak term `point-and-shoot interface', describing a windows, icons, and mice-based interface such as is found on the Macintosh.
The implication, of course, is that such an interface is only suitable for idiots.
See {for the rest of us}, {WIMP environment}, {Macintrash}, {drool-proof paper}.
Also `point-and-grunt interface'. :poke: n.,vt. See {peek}. :poll: v.,n.
1. [techspeak] The action of checking the status of an input line, sensor, or memory location to see if a particular external event has been registered.
To repeatedly call or check with someone: "I keep polling him, but he's not answering his phone; he must be swapped out.
I poll for a takeout order daily." :polygon pusher: n.
A chip designer who spends most of his or her time at the physical layout level (which requires drawing *lots* of multi-colored polygons).
Also `rectangle slinger'. :POM: /P-O-M/ n.
Common abbreviation for {phase of the moon}.
If a person says he/she has popped something from his stack, that means he/she has finally finished working on it and can now remove it from the list of things hanging overhead.
To return from a digression.
By verb doubling, "Popj, popj" means roughly "Now let's see, where were we?" See {RTI}. :posing: n.
Noun corresp. to v. {post} (but note that {post} can be nouned).
Distinguished from a `letter' or ordinary {email} message by the fact that it is broadcast rather than point-to-point.
It is not clear whether messages sent to a small mailing list are postings or email; perhaps the best dividing line is that if you don't know the names of all the potential recipients, it is a posting. :postmaster: n.
The email contact and maintenance person at a site connected to the Internet or UUCPNET.
Often, but not always, the same as the {admin}.
The Internet standard for electronic mail ({RFC}822) requires each machine to have a `postmaster' address; usually it is aliased to this person. :PostScript: n.
Compare {Vulcan nerve pinch}, {bounce}, and {boot}, and see the AI Koan in "{A Selection of AI Koans}" (in {appendix A}) about Tom Knight and the novice. :power hit: n.
A spike or drop-out in the electricity supplying your machine; a power {glitch}.
These can cause crashes and even permanent damage to your machine(s). :PPN: /P-P-N/, /pip'n/ [from `Project-Programmer Number'] n.
A user-ID under {{TOPS-10}} and its various mutant progeny at SAIL, BBN, CompuServe, and elsewhere.
Used esp. of certain common coding errors in C due to the nonintuitively low precedence levels of `&', `|', `^', `<<', and `>>' (for this reason, experienced C programmers deliberately forget the language's {baroque} precedence hierarchy and parenthesize defensively).
Can always be avoided by suitable use of parentheses. {LISP} fans enjoy pointing out that this can't happen in *their* favorite language, which eschews precedence entirely, requiring one to use explicit parentheses everywhere.
See {aliasing bug}, {memory leak}, {memory smash}, {smash the stack}, {fandango on core}, {overrun screw}. :prepend: /pree`pend'/ [by analogy with `append'] vt. To prefix.
As with `append' (but not `prefix' or `suffix' as a verb), the direct object is always the thing being added and not the original word (or character string, or whatever).
If you prepend a semicolon to the line, the translation routine will pass it through unaltered." :prestidigitization: /pres`t*-di`j*-ti:-zay'sh*n/ n.
The act of putting something into digital notation via sleight of hand. 2.
Data entry through legerdemain. :pretty pictures: n. [scientific computation] The next step up from {numbers}.
Interesting graphical output from a program that may not have any sensible relationship to the system the program is intended to model.
Good for showing to {management}. :prettyprint: /prit'ee-print/ (alt. `pretty-print') v.
To generate `pretty' human-readable output from a {hairy} internal representation; esp. used for the process of {grind}ing (sense 2) LISP code.
To format in some particularly slick and nontrivial way. :pretzel key: [Mac users] n.
See {feature key}. :prime time: [from TV programming] n.
Normal high-usage hours on a timesharing system; the day shift.
Avoidance of prime time is a major reason for {night mode} hacking. :printing discussion: [PARC] n.
A protracted, low-level, time-consuming, generally pointless discussion of something only peripherally interesting to all. :priority interrupt: [from the hardware term] n.
Also called an {NMI} (non-maskable interrupt), especially in PC-land. :profile: n.
A control file for a program, esp. a text file automatically read from each user's home directory and intended to be easily modified by the user in order to customize the program's behavior.
Used to avoid {hardcoded} choices.
2. [techspeak] A report on the amounts of time spent in each routine of a program, used to find and {tune} away the {hot spot}s in it.
This sense is often verbed.
Some profiling modes report units other than time (such as call counts) and/or report at granularities other than per-routine, but the idea is similar. :proglet: /prog'let/ [UK] n.
A short extempore program written to meet an immediate, transient need.
Compare {toy program}, {noddy}, {one-liner wars}. :program: n.
A magic spell cast over a computer allowing it to turn one's input into error messages.
An exercise in experimental epistemology.
A form of art, ostensibly intended for the instruction of computers, which is nevertheless almost inevitably a failure if other programmers can't understand it. :Programmer's Cheer: "Shift to the left!
A joke so old it has hair on it. :programming: n.
The art of debugging a blank sheet of paper (or, in these days of on-line editing, the art of debugging an empty file).
A pastime similar to banging one's head against a wall, but with fewer opportunities for reward.
The most fun you can have with your clothes on (although clothes are not mandatory). :programming fluid: n.
Many hackers consider these essential for those all-night hacking runs.
See {unleaded}, {wirewater}. :propeller head: n.
Used by hackers, this is syn. with {computer geek}.
See {feature key}. :proprietary: adj.
In {marketroid}-speak, superior; implies a product imbued with exclusive magic by the unmatched brilliance of the company's hardware or software designers.
It is used instead to describe any set of rules that allow different machines or pieces of software to coordinate with each other without ambiguity.
See also {handshaking}, {do protocol}. :provocative maintenance: [common ironic mutation of `preventive maintenance'] n.
Actions performed upon a machine at regularly scheduled intervals to ensure that the system remains in a usable state.
So called because it is all too often performed by a {field servoid} who doesn't know what he is doing; this results in the machine's remaining in an *un*usable state for an indeterminate amount of time.
See also {scratch monkey}. :prowler: [UNIX] n.
See also {GFR}, {reaper}, {skulker}. :pseudo: /soo'doh/ [USENET: truncation of `pseudonym'] n.
An electronic-mail or {USENET} persona adopted by a human for amusement value or as a means of avoiding negative repercussions of one's net.behavior; a `nom de USENET', often associated with forged postings designed to conceal message origins.
Perhaps the best-known and funniest hoax of this type is {BIFF}. 2.
Notionally, a {flamage}-generating AI program simulating a USENET user.
Many flamers have been accused of actually being such entities, despite the fact that no AI program of the required sophistication yet exists.
However, in 1989 there was a famous series of forged postings that used a phrase-frequency-based travesty generator to simulate the styles of several well-known flamers; it was based on large samples of their back postings (compare {Dissociated Press}).
A significant number of people were fooled by the forgeries, and the debate over their authenticity was settled only when the perpetrator came forward to publicly admit the hoax. :pseudoprime: n.
A backgammon prime (six consecutive occupied points) with one point missing.
This term is an esoteric pun derived from a mathematical method that, rather than determining precisely whether a number is prime (has no divisors), uses a statistical technique to decide whether the number is `probably' prime.
A {suit} wannabee; a hacker who has decided that he wants to be in management or administration and begins wearing ties, sport coats, and (shudder!) suits voluntarily.
See also {lobotomy}. :psychedelicware: /si:`k*-del'-ik-weir/ [UK] n.
See also {smoking clover}. :psyton: /si:'ton/ [TMRC] n.
The elementary particle carrying the sinister force.
The probability of a process losing is proportional to the number of psytons falling on it.
The `pub' (public) directory on a machine that allows {FTP} access.
So called because it is the default location for {SEX} (sense 1).
I'll have the source in the pube directory by Friday." :puff: vt. To decompress data that has been crunched by Huffman coding.
At least one widely distributed Huffman decoder program was actually *named* `PUFF', but these days it is usually packaged with the encoder.
Oppose {huff}. :punched card:: alt. `punch card' [techspeak] n.obs.
The signature medium of computing's {Stone Age}, now obsolescent outside of some IBM shops.
The punched card actually predated computers considerably, originating in 1801 as a control device for mechanical looms.
The version patented by Hollerith and used with mechanical tabulating machines in the 1890 U.S.
See {chad}, {chad box}, {eighty-column mind}, {green card}, {dusty deck}, {lace card}, {card walloper}. :punt: [from the punch line of an old joke referring to American football: "Drop back 15 yards and punt!"] v.
To give up, typically without any intention of retrying.
Let's punt the movie tonight.
More specifically, to give up on figuring out what the {Right Thing} is and resort to an inefficient hack.
A design decision to defer solving a problem, typically because one cannot define what is desirable sufficiently well to frame an algorithmic solution.
No way to know what the right form to dump the graph in is --- we'll punt that for now.
To hand a tricky implementation problem off to some other section of the design.
It's too hard to get the compiler to do that; let's punt to the runtime system." :Purple Book: n.
The `System V Interface Definition'.
The covers of the first editions were an amazingly nauseating shade of off-lavender.
See also {{book titles}}. :purple wire: [IBM] n.
Wire installed by Field Engineers to work around problems discovered during testing or debugging.
These are called `purple wires' even when (as is frequently the case) their actual physical color is yellow....
To put something onto a {stack} or {pdl}.
If one says that something has been pushed onto one's stack, it means that the Damoclean list of things hanging over ones's head has grown longer and heavier yet.
This may also imply that one will deal with it *before* other pending items; otherwise one might say that the thing was `added to my queue'.
To enter upon a digression, to save the current discussion for later.
Antonym of {pop}; see also {stack}, {pdl}. = Q = ===== :Q-line: [IRC] v.
To ban a particular {IRC} server from connecting to one's own; does to it what {K-line} does to an individual.
Since this is applied transitively, it has the effect of partitioning the IRC network, which is generally a {bad thing}. :quad: n.
Two bits; syn. for {quarter}, {crumb}, {tayste}.
A four-pack of anything (compare {hex}, sense 2). 3.
The rectangle or box glyph used in the APL language for various arcane purposes mostly related to I/O.
Former Ivy-Leaguers and Oxbridge types are said to associate it with nostalgic memories of dear old University. :quadruple bucky: n., obs.
On an MIT {space-cadet keyboard}, use of all four of the shifting keys (control, meta, hyper, and super) while typing a character key.
On a Stanford or MIT keyboard in {raw mode}, use of four shift keys while typing a fifth character, where the four shift keys are the control and meta keys on *both* sides of the keyboard.
This was very difficult to do!
If you want to imply that a program has ridiculously many commands or features, you can say something like: "Oh, the command that makes it spin the tapes while whistling Beethoven's Fifth Symphony is quadruple-bucky-cokebottle.
See {double bucky}, {bucky bits}, {cokebottle}. :quantifiers:: In techspeak and jargon, the standard metric prefixes used in the SI (Syst`eme International) conventions for scientific measurement have dual uses.
The binary peta- and exa- loadings, though well established, are not in jargon use either --- yet.
The prefix milli-, denoting multiplication by 1000^(-1), has always been rare in jargon (there is, however, a standard joke about the `millihelen' --- notionally, the amount of beauty required to launch one ship).
In the following table, the `prefix' column is the international standard suffix for the appropriate power of ten; the `binary' column lists jargon abbreviations and words for the corresponding power of 2.
A theory that characterizes the universe in terms of bogon sources (such as politicians, used-car salesmen, TV evangelists, and {suit}s in general), bogon sinks (such as taxpayers and computers), and bogosity potential fields.
Bogon absorption, of course, causes human beings to behave mindlessly and machines to fail (and may also cause both to emit secondary bogons); however, the precise mechanics of the bogon-computron interaction are not yet understood and remain to be elucidated.
Quantum bogodynamics is most often invoked to explain the sharp increase in hardware and software failures in the presence of suits; the latter emit bogons, which the former absorb.
See {bogon}, {computron}, {suit}, {psyton}. :quarter: n.
See also {nickle}, {nybble}, {{byte}}, {dynner}. :ques: /kwes/ 1. n.
The question mark character (`?', ASCII 0111111).
Also frequently verb-doubled as "Ques ques?
Describes a {crock} put together under time or user pressure.
Used esp. when you want to convey that you think the fast way might lead to trouble further down the road.
I can have a quick-and-dirty fix in place tonight, but I'll have to rewrite the whole module to solve the underlying design problem." See also {kluge}. :quine: [from the name of the logician Willard V.
Quine, via Douglas Hofstadter] n.
A program which generates a copy of its source text as its complete output.
Devising the shortest possible quine in some given programming language is a common hackish amusement.
Here is one classic quine: ((lambda (x) (list x (list (quote quote) x))) (quote (lambda (x) (list x (list (quote quote) x))))) This one works in LISP or Scheme.
It's relatively easy to write quines in other languages such as Postscript which readily handle programs as data; much harder (and thus more challenging!) in languages like C which do not.
Here is a classic C quine: char*f="char*f=%c%s%c;main(){printf(f,34,f,34,10);}%c"; main(){printf(f,34,f,34,10);} For excruciatingly exact quinishness, remove the line break after the second semicolon.
Some infamous {Obfuscated C Contest} entries have been quines that reproduced in exotic ways. :quote chapter and verse: [by analogy with the mainstream phrase] v.
To cite a relevant excerpt from an appropriate {bible}.
I don't care if `rn' gets it wrong; `Followup-To: poster' is explicitly permitted by RFC-1036.
I'll quote chapter and verse if you don't believe me." :quotient: n.
Originally, a {metasyntactic variable} like {foo} and {foobar}. Invented by Guy Steele for precisely this purpose when he was young and na"ive and not yet interacting with the real computing community.
Many people invent such words; this one seems simply to have been lucky enough to have spread a little.
In an eloquent display of poetic justice, it has returned to the originator in the form of a nickname.
See {foo}; however, denotes very little disgust, and is uttered mostly for the sake of the sound of it.
Guy Steele in his persona as `The Great Quux', which is somewhat infamous for light verse and for the `Crunchly' cartoons. 4.
In some circles, quux is used as a punning opposite of `crux'. "Ah, that's the quux of the matter!" implies that the point is *not* crucial (compare {tip of the ice-cube}).
Of or pertaining to a quux. :qux: /kwuhks/ The fourth of the standard {metasyntactic variable}, after {baz} and before the quu(u...)x series. See {foo}, {bar}, {baz}, {quux}.
In early typewriters, fast typing using nearby type-bars jammed the mechanism.
So Sholes fiddled the layout to separate the letters of many common digraphs (he did a far from perfect job, though; `th', `tr', `ed', and `er', for example, each use two nearby keys).
Also, putting the letters of `typewriter' on one line allowed it to be typed with particular speed and accuracy for {demo}s.
The jamming problem was essentially solved soon afterward by a suitable use of springs, but the keyboard layout lives on. = R = ===== :rain dance: n.
Any ceremonial action taken to correct a hardware problem, with the expectation that nothing will be accomplished. This especially applies to reseating printed circuit boards, reconnecting cables, etc. "I can't boot up the machine.
We'll have to wait for Greg to do his rain dance.
Any arcane sequence of actions performed with computers or software in order to achieve some goal; the term is usually restricted to rituals that include both an {incantation} or two and physical activity or motion.
Compare {magic}, {voodoo programming}, {black art}. :rainbow series: n.
Any of several series of technical manuals distinguished by cover color.
The original rainbow series was the NCSC security manuals (see {Orange Book}); the term has also been commonly applied to the PostScript reference set (see {Red Book}, {Green Book}, {Blue Book}, {White Book}).
Which books are meant by "`the' rainbow series" unqualified is thus dependent on one's local technical culture. :random: adj.
Unpredictable (closest to mathematical definition); weird.
The system's been behaving pretty randomly.
Who was at the conference?
Just a bunch of random business types." 3. (pejorative) Frivolous; unproductive; undirected.
He's just a random loser.
Incoherent or inelegant; poorly chosen; not well organized.
The program has a random set of misfeatures." "That's a random name for that function.
Well, all the names were chosen pretty randomly.
In no particular order, though deterministic.
The I/O channels are in a pool, and when a file is opened one is chosen randomly.
It generates a random name for the scratch file.
Gratuitously wrong, i.e., poorly done and for no good apparent reason.
A random hacker; used particularly of high-school students who soak up computer time and generally get in the way.
9. n. Anyone who is not a hacker (or, sometimes, anyone not known to the hacker speaking); the noun form of sense 2.
I went to the talk, but the audience was full of randoms asking bogus questions". 10. n. (occasional MIT usage) One who lives at Random Hall.
Random}, {some random X}. :random numbers:: n.
When one wishes to specify a large but random number of things, and the context is inappropriate for {N}, certain numbers are preferred by hacker tradition (that is, easily recognized as placeholders).
See also {Discordianism} or consult your pineal gland.
See also {for values of}. :randomness: n.
An inexplicable misfeature; gratuitous inelegance.
Of people, synonymous with `flakiness'.
Maybe he has a real complaint, or maybe it's just randomness.
See if he calls back." :rape: vt. 1.
To {screw} someone or something, violently; in particular, to destroy a program or information irrecoverably. Often used in describing file-system damage.
So-and-so was running a program that did absolute disk I/O and ended up raping the master directory.
To strip a piece of hardware for parts. 3. [CMU/Pitt] To mass-copy files from an anonymous ftp site. "Last night I raped Simtel's dskutl directory." :rare mode: [UNIX] adj.
CBREAK mode (character-by-character with interrupts enabled).
Distinguished from {raw mode} and {cooked mode}; the phrase "a sort of half-cooked (rare?) mode" is used in the V7/BSD manuals to describe the mode.
Usage: rare. :raster blaster: n. [Cambridge] Specialized hardware for {bitblt} operations (a {blitter}).
Allegedly inspired by `Rasta Blasta', British slang for the sort of portable stereo Americans call a `boom box' or `ghetto blaster'. :raster burn: n.
Eyestrain brought on by too many hours of looking at low-res, poorly tuned, or glare-ridden monitors, esp. graphics monitors.
See {terminal illness}. :rat belt: n.
A cable tie, esp. the sawtoothed, self-locking plastic kind that you can remove only by cutting (as opposed to a random twist of wire or a twist tie or one of those humongous metal clip frobs).
Small cable ties are `mouse belts'. :rave: [WPI] vi.
To persist in discussing a specific subject. 2.
To speak authoritatively on a subject about which one knows very little.
To complain to a person who is not in a position to correct the difficulty.
To purposely annoy another person verbally.
Sarcastic invitation to continue a {rave}, often by someone who wishes the raver would get a clue but realizes this is unlikely. :ravs: /ravz/, also `Chinese ravs' n.
Jiao-zi (steamed or boiled) or Guo-tie (pan-fried).
A Chinese appetizer, known variously in the plural as dumplings, pot stickers (the literal translation of guo-tie), and (around Boston) `Peking Ravioli'.
The term `rav' is short for `ravioli', which among hackers always means the Chinese kind rather than the Italian kind.
Both consist of a filling in a pasta shell, but the Chinese kind includes no cheese, uses a thinner pasta, has a pork-vegetable filling (good ones include Chinese chives), and is cooked differently, either by steaming or frying.
A rav or dumpling can be cooked any way, but a potsticker is always the fried kind (so called because it sticks to the frying pot and has to be scraped off).
Let's get hot-and-sour soup and three orders of ravs.
See also {{oriental food}}. :raw mode: n.
A mode that allows a program to transfer bits directly to or from an I/O device (or, under {bogus} systems which make a distinction, a disk file) without any processing, abstraction, or interpretation by the operating system.
Compare {rare mode}, {cooked mode}.
This is techspeak under UNIX, jargon elsewhere. :rc file: /R-C fi:l/ [UNIX: from the startup script `/etc/rc', but this is commonly believed to have been named after older scripts to `run commands'] n.
See also {dot file}. :RE: /R-E/ n.
Common spoken and written shorthand for {regexp}. :read-only user: n.
Describes a {luser} who uses computers almost exclusively for reading USENET, bulletin boards, and/or email, rather than writing code or purveying useful information.
See {twink}, {terminal junkie}, {lurker}. :README file: n.
When asked, hackers invariably relate the README convention to the famous scene in Lewis Carroll's `Alice's Adventures In Wonderland' in which Alice confronts magic munchies labeled "Eat Me" and "Drink Me". :real: adj.
Often used as a specific antonym to {virtual} in any of its jargon senses. :real estate: n.
May be used for any critical resource measured in units of area.
Most frequently used of `chip real estate', the area available for logic on the surface of an integrated circuit (see also {nanoacre}).
May also be used of floor space in a {dinosaur pen}, or even space on a crowded desktop (whether physical or electronic). :real hack: n.
This is sometimes used affectionately; see {hack}. :real operating system: n.
The sort the speaker is used to.
People from the BSDophilic academic community are likely to issue comments like "System V?
Why don't you use a *real* operating system?", people from the commercial/industrial UNIX sector are known to complain "BSD?
Why don't you use a *real* operating system?", and people from IBM object "UNIX?
Why don't you use a *real* operating system?
See {holy wars}, {religious issues}, {proprietary}, {Get a real computer!} :real programmer: [indirectly, from the book `Real Men Don't Eat Quiche'] n.
A particular sub-variety of hacker: one possessed of a flippant attitude toward complexity that is arrogant even when justified by experience.
Real Programmers aren't satisfied with code that hasn't been {bum}med into a state of {tense}ness just short of rupture.
Real Programmers never use comments or write documentation: "If it was hard to write", says the Real Programmer, "it should be hard to understand.
Real Programmers can make machines do things that were never in their spec sheets; in fact, they are seldom really happy unless doing so.
A Real Programmer's code can awe with its fiendish brilliance, even as its crockishness appalls.
Real Programmers live on junk food and coffee, hang line-printer art on their walls, and terrify the crap out of other programmers --- because someday, somebody else might have to try to understand their code in order to change it.
Their successors generally consider it a {Good Thing} that there aren't many Real Programmers around any more.
For a famous (and somewhat more positive) portrait of a Real Programmer, see "{The Story of Mel, a Real Programmer}" in {appendix A}. :Real Soon Now: [orig. from SF's fanzine community, popularized by Jerry Pournelle's column in `BYTE'] adv.
Supposed to be available (or fixed, or cheap, or whatever) real soon now according to somebody, but the speaker is quite skeptical.
When one's gods, fates, or other time commitments permit one to get to it (in other words, don't hold your breath).
Often abbreviated RSN. :real time: 1. [techspeak] adj.
Describes an application which requires a program to respond to stimuli within some small upper limit of response time (typically milli- or microseconds).
Process control at a chemical plant is the classic example.
Such applications often require special operating systems (because everything else must take a back seat to response time) and speed-tuned hardware.
In jargon, refers to doing something while people are watching or waiting.
I asked her how to find the calling procedure's program counter on the stack and she came up with an algorithm in real time." :real user: n.
One who is paying *real* money for his computer usage.
Someone using the system for an explicit purpose (a research project, a course, etc.) other than pure exploration.
Hackers who are also students may also be real users.
I need this fixed so I can do a problem set.
I'm not complaining out of randomness, but as a real user.
See also {luser}. :Real World: n.
Those institutions at which `programming' may be used in the same sentence as `FORTRAN', `{COBOL}', `RPG', `{IBM}', `DBASE', etc. Places where programs do such commercially necessary but intellectually uninspiring things as generating payroll checks and invoices.
The location of non-programmers and activities not related to programming.
A bizarre dimension in which the standard dress is shirt and tie and in which a person's working hours are defined as 9 to 5 (see {code grinder}).
Poor fellow, he's left MIT and gone into the Real World.
Used pejoratively by those not in residence there.
In conversation, talking of someone who has entered the Real World is not unlike speaking of a deceased person.
It is also noteworthy that on the campus of Cambridge University in England, there is a gaily-painted lamp-post which bears the label `REALITY CHECKPOINT'.
It marks the boundary between university and the Real World; check your notions of reality before passing.
See also {fear and loathing}, {mundane}, and {uninteresting}. :reality check: n.
The simplest kind of test of software or hardware; doing the equivalent of asking it what 2 + 2 is and seeing if you get 4.
The software equivalent of a {smoke test}.
The act of letting a {real user} try out prototype software.
Compare {sanity check}. :reaper: n.
A {prowler} that {GFR}s files.
A file removed in this way is said to have been `reaped'. :rectangle slinger: n.
See {polygon pusher}. :recursion: n.
See also {tail recursion}. :recursive acronym:: pl.n.
A hackish (and especially MIT) tradition is to choose acronyms/abbreviations that refer humorously to themselves or to other acronyms/abbreviations.
The classic examples were two MIT editors called EINE ("EINE Is Not EMACS") and ZWEI ("ZWEI Was EINE Initially").
More recently, there is a Scheme compiler called LIAR (Liar Imitates Apply Recursively), and {GNU} (q.v., sense 1) stands for "GNU's Not UNIX!" --- and a company with the name CYGNUS, which expands to "Cygnus, Your GNU Support".
See also {mung}, {EMACS}. :Red Book: n.
Informal name for one of the 3 standard references on Smalltalk (`Smalltalk-80: The Interactive Programming Environment' by Adele Goldberg (Addison-Wesley, 1984; QA76.8.S635G638; ISBN 0-201-11372-4); this too is associated with blue and green books).
Any of the 1984 standards issued by the CCITT eighth plenary assembly.
Until now, these have changed color each review cycle (1988 was {Blue Book}, 1992 will be {Green Book}); however, it is rumored that this convention is going to be dropped before 1992.
The NSA `Trusted Network Interpretation' companion to the {Orange Book}.
See also {{book titles}}. :red wire: [IBM] n.
Patch wires installed by programmers who have no business mucking with the hardware.
It is said that the only thing more dangerous then a hardware guy with a code patch is a {softy} with a soldering iron.... :regexp: /reg'eksp/ [UNIX] n. (alt. `regex' or `reg-ex') 1.
Common written and spoken abbreviation for `regular expression', one of the wildcard patterns used, e.g., by UNIX utilities such as `grep(1)', `sed(1)', and `awk(1)'. These use conventions similar to but more elaborate than those described under {glob}.
For purposes of this lexicon, it is sufficient to note that regexps also allow complemented character sets using `^'; thus, one can specify `any non-alphabetic character' with `[^A-Za-z]'.
Name of a well-known PD regexp-handling package in portable C, written by revered USENETter Henry Spencer <henry@zoo.toronto.edu>. :register dancing: n.
Many older processor architectures suffer from a serious shortage of general-purpose registers.
This is especially a problem for compiler-writers, because their generated code needs places to store temporaries for things like intermediate values in expression evaluation.
See {cycle of reincarnation}. :reinvent the wheel: v.
To design or implement a tool equivalent to an existing one or part of one, with the implication that doing so is silly or a waste of time.
This is often a valid criticism. On the other hand, automobiles don't use wooden rollers, and some kinds of wheel have to be reinvented many times before you get them right.
On the third hand, people reinventing the wheel do tend to come up with the moral equivalent of a trapezoid with an offset axle. :religious issues: n.
See {holy wars}; see also {theology}, {bigot}. This term is an example of {ha ha only serious}.
It is even claimed by some that {{UNIX}} and {C} are the symbiotic halves of an extremely successful replicator; see {UNIX conspiracy}. :reply: n.
See {followup}. :reset: [the MUD community] v.
In AberMUD, to bring all dead mobiles to life and move items back to their initial starting places.
New players who can't find anything shout "Reset!
Reset!" quite a bit. Higher-level players shout back "No way!" since they know where points are to be found.
Used in {RL}, it means to put things back to the way they were when you found them. :restriction: n.
A {bug} or design error that limits a program's capabilities, and which is sufficiently egregious that nobody can quite work up enough nerve to describe it as a {feature}.
Newcomer advises that whenever choosing a quantifiable but arbitrary restriction, you should make it either a power of 2 or a power of 2 minus 1.
Limits which are round numbers in base 10 are always especially suspect. :retcon: /ret'kon/ [`retroactive continuity', from the USENET newsgroup rec.arts.comics] 1. n.
The common situation in pulp fiction (esp. comics or soap operas) where a new story `reveals' things about events in previous stories, usually leaving the `facts' the same (thus preserving continuity) while completely changing their interpretation.
For example, revealing that a whole season of "Dallas" was a dream was a retcon. 2. vt. To write such a story about a character or fictitious object.
Byrne has retconned Superman's cape so that it is no longer unbreakable.
Marvelman's old adventures were retconned into synthetic dreams.
Swamp Thing was retconned from a transformed person into a sentient vegetable.
Syn. {RTI} :retrocomputing: /ret'-roh-k*m-pyoo'ting/ n.
One of a long-established series of numbered Internet standards widely followed by commercial and PD software in the Internet and UNIX communities.
Perhaps the single most influential one has been RFC-822 (the Internet mail-format standard).
The RFCs are unusual in that they are floated by technical experts acting on their own initiative and reviewed by the Internet at large, rather than formally promulgated through an institution such as ANSI.
For this reason, they remain known as RFCs even once adopted. The RFC tradition of pragmatic, experience-driven, after-the-fact standard-writing done by individuals or small working groups has important advantages over the more formal, committee-driven process typical of ANSI or ISO.
Emblematic of some of these is the existence of a flourishing tradition of `joke' RFCs; usually at least one a year is published, usually on April 1st.
Well-known joke RFCs have included 527 ("ARPAWOCKY", R.
Merryman, UCSD; 22 June 1973), 748 ("Telnet Randomly-Lose Option", Mark R.
Crispin; 1 April 1978), and 1149 ("A Standard for the Transmission of IP Datagrams on Avian Carriers", D.
1. [techspeak] Request For Enhancement. 2. [from `Radio Free Europe', Bellcore and Sun] Radio Free Ethernet, a system (originated by Peter Langston) for broadcasting audio among Sun SPARCstations over the ethernet. :rib site: [by analogy with {backbone site}] n.
A machine that has an on-demand high-speed link to a {backbone site} and serves as a regional distribution point for lots of third-party traffic in email and USENET news.
Compare {leaf site}, {backbone site}. :rice box: [from ham radio slang] n.
Any Asian-made commodity computer, esp. an 80x86-based machine built to IBM PC-compatible ISA or EISA-bus standards. :Right Thing: n.
That which is *compellingly* the correct or appropriate thing to use, do, say, etc. Often capitalized, always emphasized in speech as though capitalized.
Use of this term often implies that in fact reasonable people may disagree.
What's the right thing for LISP to do when it sees `(mod a 0)'?
Should it return `a', or give a divide-by-0 error?
Oppose {Wrong Thing}. :RL: // [MUD community] n.
Firiss laughs in RL" means that Firiss's player is laughing.
Oppose {VR}. :roach: [Bell Labs] vt. To destroy, esp. of a data structure.
Hardware gets {toast}ed or {fried}, software gets roached. :robot: [IRC, MUD] n.
An {IRC} or {MUD} user who is actually a program.
On IRC, typically the robot provides some useful service.
Examples are NickServ, which tries to prevent random users from adopting {nick}s already claimed by others, and MsgServ, which allows one to send asynchronous messages to be delivered when the recipient signs on.
Also common are "annoybots", such as KissServ, which perform no useful function except to send cute messages to other people.
Said of a system that has demonstrated an ability to recover gracefully from the whole range of exceptional inputs and situations in a given environment.
One step below {bulletproof}. Carries the additional connotation of elegance in addition to just careful attention to detail.
Compare {smart}, oppose {brittle}. :rococo: adj. {Baroque} in the extreme.
Used to imply that a program has become so encrusted with the software equivalent of gold leaf and curlicues that they have completely swamped the underlying design.
Called after the later and more extreme forms of Baroque architecture and decoration prevalent during the mid-1700s in Europe.
Alan Perlis said: "Every program eventually becomes rococo, and then rubble.
Compare {critical mass}. :rogue: [UNIX] n.
A Dungeons-and-Dragons-like game using character graphics, written under BSD UNIX and subsequently ported to other UNIX systems.
The original BSD `curses(3)' screen-handling package was hacked together by Ken Arnold to support `rogue(6)' and has since become one of UNIX's most important and heavily used application libraries.
Nethack, Omega, Larn, and an entire subgenre of computer dungeon games all took off from the inspiration provided by `rogue(6)'.
See {nethack}. :room-temperature IQ: [IBM] quant.
Used in describing the expected intelligence range of the {luser}.
Well, but how's this interface going to play with the room-temperature IQ crowd?
This is a much more insulting phrase in countries that use Celsius thermometers. :root: [UNIX] n.
The {superuser} account that ignores permission bits, user number 0 on a UNIX system.
This account has the user name `root'.
The term {avatar} is also used. 2.
The top node of the system directory structure (home directory of the root user).
By extension, the privileged system-maintenance login on any OS.
See {root mode}, {go root}. :root mode: n.
Syn. with {wizard mode} or `wheel mode'.
Like these, it is often generalized to describe privileged states in systems other than OSes. :rot13: /rot ther'teen/ [USENET: from `rotate alphabet 13 places'] n., v.
The simple Caesar-cypher encryption that replaces each English letter with the one 13 places forward or back along the alphabet, so that "The butler did it!" becomes "Gur ohgyre qvq vg!
Most USENET news reading and posting programs include a rot13 feature.
It is used to enclose the text in a sealed wrapper that the reader must choose to open --- e.g., for posting things that might offend some readers, or answers to puzzles.
A major advantage of rot13 over rot(N) for other N is that it is self-inverse, so the same code can be used for encoding and decoding. :rotary debugger: [Commodore] n.
Essential equipment for those late-night or early-morning debugging sessions.
Mainly used as sustenance for the hacker.
Comes in many decorator colors, such as Sausage, Pepperoni, and Garbage.
See {pizza, ANSI standard}. :round tape: n.
Industry-standard 1/2" magnetic tape (7- or 9-track) on traditional circular reels; oppose {square tape}. :RSN: /R-S-N/ adj.
See {Real Soon Now}. :RTBM: /R-T-B-M/ [UNIX] imp.
Commonwealth Hackish variant of {RTFM}; expands to `Read The Bloody Manual'.
RTBM is often the entire text of the first reply to a question from a {newbie}; the *second* would escalate to "RTFM". :RTFAQ: /R-T-F-A-Q/ [USENET: primarily written, by analogy with {RTFM}] imp.
Abbrev. for `Read the FAQ!', an exhortation that the person addressed ought to read the newsgroup's {FAQ list} before posting questions. :RTFB: /R-T-F-B/ [UNIX] imp.
Acronym for `Read The Fucking Binary'.
Used when neither documentation nor the the source for the problem at hand exists and the only thing to do is use some debugger or monitor and directly analyze the assembler or even the machine code.
No source for the buggy port driver?
I *hate* proprietary operating systems.
Time to RTFB." :RTFM: /R-T-F-M/ [UNIX] imp.
Acronym for `Read The Fucking Manual'.
Used by {guru}s to brush off questions they consider trivial or annoying.
Compare {Don't do that, then!} 2.
Used when reporting a problem to indicate that you aren't just asking out of {randomness}.
No, I can't figure out how to interface UNIX to my toaster, and yes, I have RTFM.
Unlike sense 1, this use is considered polite.
See also {FM}, {RTFAQ}, {RTFB}, {RTFS}, {RTM}, all of which mutated from RTFM, and compare {UTSL}. :RTFS: /R-T-F-S/ [UNIX] 1. imp.
Acronym for `Read The Fucking Source'.
Stronger form of {RTFM}, used when the problem at hand is not necessarily obvious and not available from the manuals --- or the manuals are not yet written and maybe never will be.
For even more tricky situations, see {RTFB}. 2. imp. `Read The Fucking Standard;' this oath can only be used when the problem area (e.g. a language or operating system interface) has actually been codified in a ratified standards document.
The mnemonic for the `return from interrupt' instruction on many computers including the 6502 and 6800.
The variant `RETI' is found among former Z80 hackers (almost nobody programs these things in assembler anymore). Equivalent to "Now, where was I?" or used to end a conversational digression.
See {pop}; see also {POPJ}. :RTM: /R-T-M/ [USENET: abbreviation for `Read The Manual'] 1.
Morris Jr., perpetrator of the great Internet worm of 1988 (see {Great Worm, the}); villain to many, na"ive hacker gone wrong to a few.
Morris claimed that the worm that brought the Internet to its knees was a benign experiment that got out of control as the result of a coding error.
After the storm of negative publicity that followed this blunder, Morris's name on ITS was hacked from RTM to {RTFM}. :rude: [WPI] adj.
1. (of a program) Badly written.
Functionally poor, e.g., a program that is very difficult to use because of gratuitously poor (random?) design decisions.
Anything that manipulates a shared resource without regard for its other users in such a way as to cause a (non-fatal) problem is said to be `rude'.
Examples: programs that change tty modes without resetting them on exit, or windowing programs that keep forcing themselves to the top of the window stack.
Anything that requires {heavy wizardry} or {black art} to {parse}: core dumps, JCL commands, APL, or code in a language you haven't a clue how to read.
Compare {casting the runes}, {Great Runes}.
Special display characters (for example, the high-half graphics on an IBM PC). :runic: adj.
VMS fans sometimes refer to UNIX as `Runix'; UNIX fans return the compliment by expanding VMS to `Very Messy Syntax' or `Vachement Mauvais Syst`eme' (French; lit. "Cowlike Bad System", idiomatically "Bitchy Bad System"). :rusty iron: n.
It has been claimed that this is the inevitable fate of {water MIPS}. :rusty memory: n.
Mass-storage that uses iron-oxide-based magnetic media (esp. tape and the pre-Winchester removable disk packs used in {washing machine}s).
Compare {donuts}. = S = ===== :S/N ratio: // n. (also `s/n ratio', `s:n ratio').
Often abbreviated `SNR'. :sacred: adj.
Reserved for the exclusive use of something (an extension of the standard meaning).
Often means that anyone may look at the sacred object, but clobbering it will screw whatever it is sacred to.
A cuspy but bogus raving story about N random broken people. Here is a classic example of the saga form, as told by Guy L. Steele: Jon L.
White (login name JONL) and I (GLS) were office mates at MIT for many years.
Palo Alto is adjacent to Stanford University and about 40 miles south of San Francisco.
We ate at The Good Earth, a `health food' restaurant, very popular, the sort whose milkshakes all contain honey and protein powder.
JONL ordered such a shake --- the waitress claimed the flavor of the day was "lalaberry".
I still have no idea what that might be, but it became a running joke.
It was the color of raspberry, and JONL said it tasted rather bitter.
I ate a better tostada there than I have ever had in a Mexican restaurant. After this we went to the local Uncle Gaylord's Old Fashioned Ice Cream Parlor.
They make ice cream fresh daily, in a variety of intriguing flavors.
It's a chain, and they have a slogan: "If you don't live near an Uncle Gaylord's --- MOVE!
Also, Uncle Gaylord (a real person) wages a constant battle to force big-name ice cream makers to print their ingredients on the package (like air and plastic and other non-natural garbage).
JONL and I had first discovered Uncle Gaylord's the previous August, when we had flown to a computer-science conference in Berkeley, California, the first time either of us had been on the West Coast.
The ice cream there was very good.
We had arrived on a Wednesday, and by Thursday evening we had been there at least four times.
Each time, JONL would get ginger honey ice cream, and proclaim to all bystanders that "Ginger was the spice that drove the Europeans mad!
That's why they sought a route to the East!
They used it to preserve their otherwise off-taste meat.
After the third or fourth repetition RPG and I were getting a little tired of this spiel, and began to paraphrase him: "Wow! Ginger!
The spice that makes rotten meat taste good!
Why don't we find some dog that's been run over and sat in the sun for a week and put some *ginger* on it for dinner?!
This failed to faze JONL; he took it in good humor, as long as we kept returning to Uncle Gaylord's.
I unadventurously chose the filet mignon, and KBT had je ne sais quoi du jour, but RPG and JONL had lapin (rabbit). (Waitress: "Oui, we have fresh rabbit, fresh today.
RPG: "Well, JONL, I guess we won't need any *ginger*!") We finished the meal late, about 11 P.M., which is 2 A.M Boston time, so JONL and I were rather droopy.
But it wasn't yet midnight.
Off to Uncle Gaylord's! Now the French restaurant was in Redwood City, north of Palo Alto. In leaving Redwood City, we somehow got onto route 101 going north instead of south.
JONL and I wouldn't have known the difference had RPG not mentioned it.
We still knew very little of the local geography.
I did figure out, however, that we were headed in the direction of Berkeley, and half-jokingly suggested that we continue north and go to Uncle Gaylord's in Berkeley. RPG said "Fine!" and we drove on for a while and talked.
I was drowsy, and JONL actually dropped off to sleep for 5 minutes.
When he awoke, RPG said, "Gee, JONL, you must have slept all the way over the bridge!", referring to the one spanning San Francisco Bay. Just then we came to a sign that said "University Avenue".
I mumbled something about working our way over to Telegraph Avenue; RPG said "Right!" and maneuvered some more.
It looked like a barn!
But this place looks *just like* the one back in Palo Alto!" RPG deadpanned, "Well, this is the one *I* always come to when I'm in Berkeley.
They've got two in San Francisco, too.
Remember, they're a chain." JONL accepted this bit of wisdom.
And he was not totally ignorant --- he knew perfectly well that University Avenue was in Berkeley, not far from Telegraph Avenue.
What he didn't know was that there is a completely different University Avenue in Palo Alto. JONL went up to the counter and asked for ginger honey.
The guy at the counter asked whether JONL would like to taste it first, evidently their standard procedure with that flavor, as not too many people like it. JONL said, "I'm sure I like it.
Just give me a cone.
The guy behind the counter insisted that JONL try just a taste first. "Some people think it tastes like soap.
JONL insisted, "Look, I *love* ginger.
I eat raw ginger roots.
I already went through this hassle with the guy back in Palo Alto.
I *know* I like that flavor!" At the words "back in Palo Alto" the guy behind the counter got a very strange look on his face, but said nothing.
KBT caught his eye and winked.
At this point, RPG clued me in fully. RPG, KBT, and I retreated to a table, trying to stifle our chuckles.
JONL remained at the counter, talking about ice cream with the guy b.t.c., comparing Uncle Gaylord's to other ice cream shops and generally having a good old time. At length the g.b.t.c. said, "How's the ginger honey?
I wonder what exactly is in it?
Now Uncle Gaylord publishes all his recipes and even teaches classes on how to make his ice cream at home.
So the g.b.t.c. got out the recipe, and he and JONL pored over it for a while.
But the g.b.t.c. could contain his curiosity no longer, and asked again, "You really like that stuff, huh?
JONL said, "Yeah, I've been eating it constantly back in Palo Alto for the past two days.
A large quantity of anything. "There's a sagan different ways to tweak EMACS.
Government spends sagans on bombs and welfare --- hard to say which is more destructive." :SAIL:: /sayl/, not /S-A-I-L/ n.
The Stanford Artificial Intelligence Language used at SAIL (sense 1).
It was an Algol-60 derivative with a coroutining facility and some new data types intended for building search trees and association lists. :salescritter: /sayls'kri`tr/ n.
Pejorative hackerism for a computer salesperson.
Hackers tell the following joke: Q.
What's the difference between a used-car dealer and a computer salesman? A.
The terms `salesthing' and `salesdroid' are also common.
Compare {marketroid}, {suit}, {droid}. :salsman: /salz'm*n/ v.
To flood a mailing list or newsgroup with huge amounts of useless, trivial or redundant information.
From the name of a hacker who has frequently done this on some widely distributed mailing lists. :salt mines: n.
Dense quarters housing large numbers of programmers working long hours on grungy projects, with some hope of seeing the end of the tunnel in N years.
Noted for their absence of sunshine. Compare {playpen}, {sandbox}. :salt substrate: [MIT] n.
Collective noun used to refer to potato chips, pretzels, saltines, or any other form of snack food designed primarily as a carrier for sodium chloride.
From the technical term `chip substrate', used to refer to the silicon on the top of which the active parts of integrated circuits are deposited. :same-day service: n.
See also {PC-ism}. :samurai: n.
A person involved with silicon lithography and the physical design of chips.
Compare {ironmonger}, {polygon pusher}. :sandbox: n.
1. (also `sandbox, the') Common term for the R&D department at many software and computer companies (where hackers in commercial environments are likely to be found).
Half-derisive, but reflects the truth that research is a form of creative play. Compare {playpen}.
Syn. {link farm} :sanity check: n.
To type to a terminal.
To list a directory verbosely, you have to say `ls -l'.
Tends to imply a {newline}-terminated command (a `sentence').
A computer may also be said to `say' things to you, even if it doesn't have a speech synthesizer, by displaying them on a terminal in response to your commands.
Hackers find it odd that this usage confuses {mundane}s. :scag: vt. To destroy the data on a disk, either by corrupting the filesystem or by causing media damage.
That last power hit scagged the system disk.
Compare {scrog}, {roach}. :scanno: n.
An error in a document caused by a scanner glitch, analgous to typo or {thinko}. :schroedinbug: [MIT: from the Schroedinger's Cat thought-experiment in quantum physics] n.
Though this sounds impossible, it happens; some programs have harbored latent schroedinbugs for years.
Compare {heisenbug}, {Bohr bug}, {mandelbug}. :science-fiction fandom:: n.
Another voluntary subculture having a very heavy overlap with hackerdom; most hackers read SF and/or fantasy fiction avidly, and many go to `cons' (SF conventions) or are involved in fandom-connected activities such as the Society for Creative Anachronism.
Some hacker jargon originated in SF fandom; see {defenestration}, {great-wall}, {cyberpunk}, {h}, {ha ha only serious}, {IMHO}, {mundane}, {neep-neep}, {Real Soon Now}.
Additionally, the jargon terms {cowboy}, {cyberspace}, {de-rezz}, {go flatline}, {ice}, {virus}, {wetware}, {wirehead}, and {worm} originated in SF stories. :scram switch: [from the nuclear power industry] n.
An emergency-power-off switch (see {Big Red Switch}), esp. one positioned to be easily hit by evacuating personnel.
Describes a data structure or recording medium attached to a machine for testing or temporary-use purposes; one that can be {scribble}d on without loss.
Usually in the combining forms `scratch memory', `scratch register', `scratch disk', `scratch tape', `scratch volume'.
2. [primarily IBM] vt. To delete (as in a file). :scratch monkey: n.
As in "Before testing or reconfiguring, always mount a {scratch monkey}", a proverb used to advise caution when dealing with irreplaceable data or devices.
Mabel was not (so the legend goes) your ordinary monkey; the university had spent years teaching her how to swim, breathing through a regulator, in order to study the effects of different gas mixtures on her physiology.
The moral is clear: When in doubt, always mount a scratch monkey. :screw: [MIT] n.
A {lose}, usually in software.
Especially used for user-visible misbehavior caused by a bug or misfeature.
This use has become quite widespread outside MIT. :screwage: /skroo'*j/ n.
Like {lossage} but connotes that the failure is due to a designed-in misfeature rather than a simple inadequacy or a mere bug. :scribble: n.
To modify a data structure in a random and unintentionally destructive way.
Somebody's disk-compactor program went berserk and scribbled on the i-node table.
It was working fine until one of the allocation routines scribbled on low core.
Synonymous with {trash}; compare {mung}, which conveys a bit more intention, and {mangle}, which is more violent and final. :scrog: /skrog/ [Bell Labs] vt. To damage, trash, or corrupt a data structure.
The list header got scrogged.
Also reported as `skrog', and ascribed to the comic strip "The Wizard of Id".
Compare {scag}; possibly the two are related.
Equivalent to {scribble} or {mangle}. :scrool: /skrool/ [from the pioneering Roundtable chat system in Houston ca. 1984; prob. originated as a typo for `scroll'] n.
The log of old messages, available for later perusal or to help one get back in synch with the conversation.
The damn compiler scrozzled itself again!" :scruffies: n.
See {neats vs. scruffies}. :SCSI: [Small Computer System Interface] n.
A bus-independent standard for system-level interfacing between a computer and intelligent devices.
Typically annotated in literature with `sexy' (/sek'see/), `sissy' (/sis'ee/), and `scuzzy' (/skuh'zee/) as pronunciation guides --- the last being the overwhelmingly predominant form, much to the dismay of the designers and their marketing people.
One can usually assume that a person who pronounces it /S-C-S-I/ is clueless. :ScumOS: n.
Unflattering hackerism for SunOS, the UNIX variant supported on Sun Microsystems's UNIX workstations (see also {sun-stools}), and compare {AIDX}, {terminak}, {Macintrash} {Nominal Semidestructor}, {Open DeathTrap}, {HP-SUX}.
Despite what this term might suggest, Sun was founded by hackers and still enjoys excellent relations with hackerdom; usage is more often in exasperation than outright loathing. :search-and-destroy mode: n.
The term was first used by Fred Brooks in his classic `The Mythical Man-Month: Essays on Software Engineering' (Addison-Wesley, 1975; ISBN 0-201-00650-2).
It described the jump from a set of nice, simple operating systems on the IBM 70xx series to OS/360 on the 360 series.
A similar effect can also happen in an evolving system; see {Brooks's Law}, {creeping elegance}, {creeping featurism}.
See also {{Multics}}, {OS/2}, {X}, {software bloat}. This version of the jargon lexicon has been described (with altogether too much truth for comfort) as an example of second-system effect run amok on jargon-1.... :secondary damage: n.
When a fatal error occurs (esp. a {segfault}) the immediate cause may be that a pointer has been trashed due to a previous {fandango on core}.
There is at least one case on record in which 17 hours of {grovel}ling with `adb' actually dug up the underlying bug behind an instance of seventh-level damage!
The hacker who accomplished this near-superhuman feat was presented with an award by his fellows. :security through obscurity: n.
One instance of *deliberate* security through obscurity is recorded; the command to allow patching the running ITS system ({altmode} altmode control-R) echoed as $$^D.
If you actually typed alt alt ^D, that set a flag which would prevent patching the system even if you later got it right. :SED: [TMRC, from `Light-Emitting Diode'] /S-E-D/ n. Smoke-emitting diode.
A {friode} that lost the war.
Syn. {segment}, {seggie}. :seggie: /seg'ee/ [UNIX] n.
Shorthand for {segmentation fault} reported from Britain. :segment: /seg'ment/ vi.
To experience a {segmentation fault}. Confusingly, this is often pronounced more like the noun `segment' than like mainstream v. segment; this is because it is actually a noun shorthand that has been verbed. :segmentation fault: n. [UNIX] 1.
An error in which a running program attempts to access memory not allocated to it and {core dump}s with a segmentation violation error.
To lose a train of thought or a line of reasoning.
Also uttered as an exclamation at the point of befuddlement. :segv: /seg'vee/ n.,vi.
Yet another synonym for {segmentation fault} (actually, in this case, `segmentation violation'). :self-reference: n.
See {self-reference}. :selvage: /sel'v*j/ [from sewing] n.
See {chad} (sense 1). :semi: /se'mee/ or /se'mi:/ 1. n.
Abbreviation for `semicolon', when speaking.
Commands to {grind} are prefixed by semi-semi-star" means that the prefix is `;;*', not 1/4 of a star.
A prefix used with words such as `immediately' as a qualifier.
When is the system coming up?" "Semi-immediately." (That is, maybe not for an hour.) "We did consider that possibility semi-seriously.
See also {infinite}. :semi-infinite: n.
See {infinite}. :senior bit: [IBM] n.
Syn. {meta bit}. :server: n.
A kind of {daemon} that performs a service for the requester and which often runs on a computer other than the one on which the server runs.
A particularly common term on the Internet, which is rife with `name servers', `domain servers', `news servers', `finger servers', and the like. :SEX: /seks/ [Sun Users' Group & elsewhere] n.
A technique invented by the blue-green algae hundreds of millions of years ago to speed up their evolution, which had been terribly slow up until then.
Today, SEX parties are popular among hackers and others (of course, these are no longer limited to exchanges of genetic software).
In general, SEX parties are a {Good Thing}, but unprotected SEX can propagate a {virus}. See also {pubic directory}.
The rather Freudian mnemonic often used for Sign EXtend, a machine instruction found in the PDP-11 and many other architectures.
That wasn't the last time this happened, either.
The author of `The Intel 8086 Primer', who was one of the original designers of the 8086, noted that there was originally a `SEX' instruction on that processor, too.
British hackers thought this made perfect mythic sense; after all, it was commonly observed, you could (on some theoretical level) have sex with a dragon, but you can't have sex with an apple. :sex changer: n.
Syn. {gender mender}. :shambolic link: n.
Such payment may or may not buy additional support or functionality.
See also {careware}, {charityware}, {crippleware}, {guiltware}, {postcardware}, and {-ware}; compare {payware}. :shelfware: /shelfweir/ n.
Software purchased on a whim (by an individual user) or in accordance with policy (by a corporation or government agency), but not actually required for any particular use.
To spawn an interactive {subshell} from within a program (e.g., a mailer or editor).
Bang foo runs foo in a subshell, while bang alone shells out." :shift left (or right) logical: [from any of various machines' instruction sets] 1. vi.
To move oneself to the left (right).
To move out of the way.
Get out of that (my) seat!
You can shift to that empty one to the left (right).
Often used without the `logical', or as `left shift' instead of `shift left'.
Sometimes heard as LSH /lish/, from the {PDP-10} instruction set.
See {Programmer's Cheer}. :shim: n.
A small piece of data inserted in order to achieve a desired memory alignment or other addressing property.
See also {loose bytes}. :shitogram: /shit'oh-gram/ n.
A *really* nasty piece of email. Compare {nastygram}, {flame}. :short card: n.
A half-length IBM PC expansion card or adapter that will fit in one of the two short slots located towards the right rear of a standard chassis (tucked behind the floppy disk drives). See also {tall card}. :shotgun debugging: n.
The software equivalent of {Easter egging}; the making of relatively undirected changes to software in the hope that a bug will be perturbed out of existence.
This almost never works, and usually introduces more bugs. :showstopper: n.
A hardware or (especially) software bug that makes an implementation effectively unusable; one that absolutely has to be fixed before development can go on.
Opposite in connotation from its original theatrical use, which refers to something stunningly *good*. :shriek: n.
Occasional CMU usage, also in common use among APL fans and mathematicians, especially category theorists. :Shub-Internet: /shuhb in't*r-net/ [MUD: from H.
Lovecraft's evil fictional deity `Shub-Niggurath', the Black Goat with a Thousand Young] n.
The harsh personification of the Internet, Beast of a Thousand Processes, Eater of Characters, Avatar of Line Noise, and Imp of Call Waiting; the hideous multi-tendriled entity formed of all the manifold connections of the net.
A sect of MUDders worships Shub-Internet, sacrificing objects and praying for good connections.
To no avail --- its purpose is malign and evil, and is the cause of all network slowdown.
The dread name of Shub-Internet is seldom spoken aloud, as it is said that repeating it three times will cause the being to wake, deep within its lair beneath the Pentagon. :sidecar: n.
Syn. {slap on the side}.
Esp. used of add-ons for the late and unlamented IBM PCjr.
The IBM PC compatibility box that could be bolted onto the side of an Amiga.
Designed and produced by Commodore, it broke all of the company's own rules. If it worked with any other peripherals, it was by {magic}. :SIG: n.
The Association for Computing Machinery traditionally sponsors Special Interest Groups in various technical areas; well-known ones include SIGARCH (the Special Interest Group for Computer Architecture) and SIGGRAPH (the Special Interest Group for Computer Graphics).
A maxim, quote, proverb, joke, or slogan embedded in one's {sig block} and intended to convey something of one's philosophical stance, pet peeves, or sense of humor.
Calm down, it's only ones and zeroes." :sig virus: n.
A parasitic {meme} embedded in a {sig block}. There was a {meme plague} or fad for these on USENET in late 1991.
Most were equivalents of "I am a .sig virus.
Please reproduce me in your .sig block.".
Of course, the .sig virus's memetic hook is the giggle value of going along with the gag; this, however, was a self-limiting phenomenon as more and more people picked up on the idea.
There were creative variants on it; some people stuck `sig virus antibody' texts in their sigs, and there was at least one instance of a sig virus eater. :signal-to-noise ratio: [from analog electronics] n.
Used by hackers in a generalization of its technical meaning. `Signal' refers to useful information conveyed by some communications medium, and `noise' to anything else on that medium.
Hence a low ratio implies that it is not worth paying attention to the medium in question. Figures for such metaphorical ratios are never given.
The term is most often applied to {USENET} newsgroups during {flame war}s. Compare {bandwidth}.
See also {coefficient of X}, {lost in the noise}. :silicon: n.
ICs or microprocessor-based computer systems (compare {iron}).
See also {sandbender}. :silicon foundry: n.
A company that {fab}s chips to the designs of others.
This is somewhat analogous to the use of {HLL}s versus coding in assembler. :silly walk: [from Monty Python's Flying Circus] vi.
A ridiculous procedure required to accomplish a task.
Like {grovel}, but more {random} and humorous.
I had to silly-walk through half the /usr directories to find the maps file.
Syn. {fandango on core}. :silo: n.
The FIFO input-character buffer in an RS-232 line card.
Jensen and Wirth's infamous `Pascal User Manual and Report', so called because of the silver cover of the widely distributed Springer-Verlag second edition of 1978 (ISBN 0-387-90144-2).
See {{book titles}}, {Pascal}. :since time T equals minus infinity: adj.
A long time ago; for as long as anyone can remember; at the time that some particular frob was first designed.
Usually the word `time' is omitted.
See also {time T}. :sitename: /si:t'naym/ [UNIX/Internet] n.
The unique electronic name of a computer system, used to identify it in UUCP mail, USENET, or other forms of electronic information interchange.
The folklore interest of sitenames stems from the creativity and humor they often display.
Interpreting a sitename is not unlike interpreting a vanity license plate; one has to mentally unpack it, allowing for mono-case and length restrictions and the lack of whitespace.
Hacker tradition deprecates dull, institutional-sounding names in favor of punchy, humorous, and clever coinages (except that it is considered appropriate for the official public gateway machine of an organization to bear the organization's name or acronym).
Mythological references, cartoon characters, animal names, and allusions to SF or fantasy literature are probably the most popular sources for sitenames (in roughly descending order).
The obligatory comment when discussing these is Harris's Lament: "All the good ones are taken!
See also {network address}. :skrog: v.
Syn. {prowler}. :slap on the side: n. (also called a {sidecar}, or abbreviated `SOTS'.) A type of external expansion hardware marketed by computer manufacturers (e.g., Commodore for the Amiga 500/1000 series and IBM for the hideous failure called `PCjr').
Various SOTS boxes provided necessities such as memory, hard drive controllers, and conventional expansion slots. :slash: n.
Common name for the slant (`/', ASCII 0101111) character.
See {ASCII} for other synonyms. :sleep: vi.
1. [techspeak] On a timesharing system, a process that relinquishes its claim on the scheduler until some given event occurs or a specified time delay elapses is said to `go to sleep'.
In jargon, used very similarly to v. {block}; also in `sleep on', syn. with `block on'.
A small, derivative change (e.g., to code). :slop: n.
A one-sided {fudge factor}, that is, an allowance for error but in only one of two directions.
The percentage of `extra' code generated by a compiler over the size of equivalent assembler code produced by {hand-hacking}; i.e., the space (or maybe time) you lose because you didn't do it yourself.
This number is often used as a measure of the goodness of a compiler; slop below 5% is very good, and 10% is usually acceptable.
With modern compiler technology, esp. on RISC machines, the compiler's slop may actually be *negative*; that is, humans may be unable to generate code as good.
This is one of the reasons assembler programming is no longer common. :slopsucker: /slop'suhk-r/ n.
A lowest-priority task that must wait around until everything else has `had its fill' of machine resources.
Only when the machine would otherwise be idle is the task allowed to `suck up the slop'.
Also called a `hungry puppy' or `bottom feeder'.
One common variety of slopsucker hunts for large prime numbers.
Compare {background}. :slurp: vt. To read a large data file entirely into {core} before working on it.
This may be contrasted with the strategy of reading a small piece at a time, processing it, and then reading the next piece.
This program slurps in a 1K-by-1K matrix and does an FFT.
See also {sponge}. :smart: adj.
Said of a program that does the {Right Thing} in a wide variety of complicated circumstances.
There is a difference between calling a program smart and calling it intelligent; in particular, there do not exist any intelligent programs (yet --- see {AI-complete}).
Compare {robust} (smart programs can be {brittle}). :smart terminal: n.
A terminal that has enough computing capability to render graphics or to offload some kind of front-end processing from the computer it talks to.
Any terminal with an addressable cursor; the opposite of a {glass tty}.
Flexibility and programmability, on the other hand, are *really* smart. Compare {hook}. :smash case: vi.
To lose or obliterate the uppercase/lowercase distinction in text input.
MS-DOS will automatically smash case in the names of all the files you create.
Compare {fold case}. :smash the stack: [C programming] n.
On many C implementations it is possible to corrupt the execution stack by writing past the end of an array declared `auto' in a routine.
Code that does this is said to `smash the stack', and can cause return from the routine to jump to a random address.
This can produce some of the most insidious data-dependent bugs known to mankind.
Variants include `trash' the stack, {scribble} the stack, {mangle} the stack; the term *{mung} the stack is not used, as this is never done intentionally.
See {spam}; see also {aliasing bug}, {fandango on core}, {memory leak}, {memory smash}, {precedence lossage}, {overrun screw}. :smiley: n.
See {emoticon}. :smoke and mirrors: n.
The term is mainstream in this general sense.
Among hackers it's strongly associated with bogus demos and crocked {benchmark}s (see also {MIPS}, {machoflops}).
They claim their new box cranks 5 MIPS for under $5000, but didn't specify the instruction mix --- sounds like smoke and mirrors to me.
The phrase has been said to derive from carnie slang for magic acts and `freak show' displays that depend on `trompe l'oeil' effects, but also calls to mind the fierce Aztec god Tezcatlipoca (lit.
Smoking Mirror") to whom mass human sacrifices were regularly made.
Upon hearing about a rigged demo or yet another round of fantasy-based marketing promises hackers often feel similarly disheartened. :smoke test: n.
A rudimentary form of testing applied to electronic equipment following repair or reconfiguration, in which power is applied and the tester checks for sparks, smoke, or other dramatic signs of fundamental failure.
By extension, the first run of a piece of software after construction or a critical change.
A {display hack} originally due to Bill Gosper.
Many convergent lines are drawn on a color monitor in {AOS} mode (so that every pixel struck has its color incremented).
The lines all have one endpoint in the middle of the screen; the other endpoints are spaced one pixel apart around the perimeter of a large square.
The color map is then repeatedly rotated.
This results in a striking, rainbow-hued, shimmering four-leaf clover.
Gosper joked about keeping it hidden from the FDA (the U.S.'s Food and Drug Administration) lest its hallucinogenic properties cause it to be banned. :SMOP: /S-M-O-P/ [Simple (or Small) Matter of Programming] n. 1.
A piece of code, not yet written, whose anticipated length is significantly greater than its complexity.
Used to refer to a program that could obviously be written, but is not worth the trouble.
It's easy to enhance a FORTRAN compiler to compile COBOL as well; it's just a SMOP.
A newsgroup regular with a habitual style that is irreverent, silly, and cute.
Like many other hackish terms for people, this one may be praise or insult depending on who uses it.
In general, being referred to as a smurf is probably not going to make your day unless you've previously adopted the label yourself in a spirit of irony.
Compare {old fart}. :SNAFU principle: /sna'foo prin'si-pl/ [from WWII Army acronym for `Situation Normal, All Fucked Up'] n.
Snail me a copy of those graphics, will you?" :snail-mail: n.
Paper mail, as opposed to electronic.
Sometimes written as the single word `SnailMail'.
One's postal address is, correspondingly, a `snail address'.
Derives from earlier coinage `USnail' (from `U.S.
Mail'), for which there have been parody posters and stamps made.
The underlying metaphor may be that of a rubber band stretched through a number of intermediate points; if you remove all the thumbtacks in the middle, it snaps into a straight line from first to last.
To grab, esp. to grab a large document or file for the purpose of using it with or without the author's permission.
2. [in the UNIX community] To fetch a file or set of files across a network.
This term was mainstream in the late 1960s, meaning `to eat piggishly'.
It may still have this connotation in context. "He's in the snarfing phase of hacking --- {FTP}ing megs of stuff a day.
To acquire, with little concern for legal forms or politesse (but not quite by stealing).
They were giving away samples, so I snarfed a bunch of them.
This program starts by snarfing the entire database into core, then...." :snarf & barf: /snarf'n-barf`/ n.
Under a {WIMP environment}, the act of grabbing a region of text and then stuffing the contents of that region into another region (or the same one) to avoid retyping a command line.
In the late 1960s, this was a mainstream expression for an `eat now, regret it later' cheap-restaurant expedition. :snarf down: v.
To {snarf}, with the connotation of absorbing, processing, or understanding.
I'll snarf down the latest version of the {nethack} user's guide --- It's been a while since I played last and I don't know what's changed recently." :snark: [Lewis Carroll, via the Michigan Terminal System] n.
When a user's process bombed, the operator would get the message "Help, Help, Snark in MTS!
More generally, any kind of unexplained or threatening event on a computer (especially if it might be a boojum).
Often used to refer to an event or a log file entry that might indicate an attempted security violation.
UUCP name of snark.thyrsus.com, home site of the Jargon File 2.*.* versions (i.e., this lexicon). :sneakernet: /snee'ker-net/ n.
Term used (generally with ironic intent) for transfer of electronic information by physically carrying tape, disks, or some other media from one machine to another.
Never underestimate the bandwidth of a station wagon filled with magtape, or a 747 filled with CD-ROMs.
Also called `Tennis-Net', `Armpit-Net', `Floppy-Net' or `Shoenet'. :sniff: v.,n.
Synonym for {poll}. :snivitz: /sniv'itz/ n.
A hiccup in hardware or software; a small, transient problem of unknown origin (less serious than a {snark}).
Compare {glitch}. :SO: /S-O/ n.
1. (also `S.O.') Abbrev. for Significant Other, almost invariably written abbreviated and pronounced /S-O/ by hackers.
Used to refer to one's primary relationship, esp. a live-in to whom one is not married.
The Shift Out control character in ASCII (Control-N, 0001110). :social engineering: n.
Term used among {cracker}s and {samurai} for cracking techniques that rely on weaknesses in {wetware} rather than software; the aim is to trick people into revealing passwords or other information that compromises a target system's security.
Classic scams include phoning up a mark who has the required information and posing as a field service tech or a fellow employee with an urgent access problem.
See also the {tiger team} story in the {patch} entry. :social science number: [IBM] n.
A statistic that is {content-free}, or nearly so.
A measure derived via methods of questionable validity from data of a dubious and vague nature. Predictively, having a social science number in hand is seldom much better than nothing, and can be considerably worse. {Management} loves them.
See also {numbers}, {math-out}, {pretty pictures}. :soft boot: n.
See {boot}. :softcopy: /soft'ko-pee/ n. [by analogy with `hardcopy'] A machine-readable form of corresponding hardcopy.
See {bits}, {machinable}. :software bloat: n.
The results of {second-system effect} or {creeping featuritis}.
Commonly cited examples include `ls(1)', {X}, {BSD}, {Missed'em-five}, and {OS/2}. :software rot: n.
Term used to describe the tendency of software that has not been used in a while to {lose}; such failure may be semi-humorously ascribed to {bit rot}.
More commonly, `software rot' strikes when a program's assumptions become out of date.
Actually, related lossages often afflict centenarians who have to deal with computer software designed by unimaginative clods.
One such incident became the focus of a minor public flap in 1990, when a gentleman born in 1889 applied for a driver's license renewal in Raleigh, North Carolina.
If a program that depended on a peculiar instruction hadn't been run in quite a while, the user might discover that the opcodes no longer did the same things they once did. ("Hey, so-and-so needs an instruction to do such-and-such.
We can {snarf} this opcode, right?
No one uses it.") Another classic example of this sprang from the time an MIT hacker found a simple way to double the speed of the unconditional jump instruction on a PDP-6, so he patched the hardware.
Unfortunately, this broke some fragile timing software in a music-playing program, throwing its output out of tune.
In a way pertaining to software. "The system is softwarily unreliable.
The adjective `softwary' is *not* used.
See {hardwarily}. :softy: [IBM] n.
Hardware hackers' term for a software expert who is largely ignorant of the mysteries of hardware. :some random X: adj.
Used to indicate a member of class X, with the implication that Xs are interchangeable.
I think some random cracker tripped over the guest timeout last night.
Random}. :sorcerer's apprentice mode: [from Friedrich Schiller's `Der Zauberlehrling' via the film "Fantasia"] n.
A bug in a protocol where, under some circumstances, the receipt of a message causes multiple messages to be sent, each of which, when received, triggers the same bug.
Used esp. of such behavior caused by {bounce message} loops in {email} software.
Compare {broadcast storm}, {network meltdown}. :SOS: n.,obs. /S-O-S/ 1.
An infamously {losing} text editor. Once, back in the 1960s, when a text editor was needed for the PDP-6, a hacker crufted together a {quick-and-dirty} `stopgap editor' to be used until a better one was written.
Unfortunately, the old one was never really discarded when new ones (in particular, {TECO}) came along.
SOS is a descendant (`Son of Stopgap') of that editor, and many PDP-10 users gained the dubious pleasure of its acquaintance.
Since then other programs similar in style to SOS have been written, notably the early font editor BILOS /bye'lohs/, the Brother-In-Law Of Stopgap (the alternate expansion `Bastard Issue, Loins of Stopgap' has been proposed).
To decrease; inverse of {AOS}, from the PDP-10 instruction set. :source of all good bits: n.
A person from whom (or a place from which) useful information may be obtained.
If you need to know about a program, a {guru} might be the source of all good bits. The title is often applied to a particularly competent secretary. :space-cadet keyboard: n.
A now-legendary device used on MIT LISP machines, which inspired several still-current jargon terms and influenced the design of {EMACS}.
It was equipped with no fewer than *seven* shift keys: four keys for {bucky bits} (`control', `meta', `hyper', and `super') and three like regular shift keys, called `shift', `top', and `front'.
Many keys had three symbols on them: a letter and a symbol on the top, and a Greek letter on the front.
For example, the `L' key had an `L' and a two-way arrow on the top, and the Greek letter lambda on the front.
On this keyboard, you could type over 8000 different characters!
This allowed the user to type very complicated mathematical text, and also to have thousands of single-character commands at his disposal.
Many hackers were actually willing to memorize the command meanings of that many characters if it reduced typing time (this attitude obviously shaped the interface of EMACS).
Other hackers, however, thought having that many bucky bits was overkill, and objected that such a keyboard can require three or four hands to operate.
See {bucky bits}, {cokebottle}, {double bucky}, {meta bit}, {quadruple bucky}. Note: early versions of this entry incorrectly identified the space-cadet keyboard with the `Knight keyboard'.
Though both were designed by Tom Knight, the latter term was properly applied only to a keyboard used for ITS on the PDP-10 and modeled on the Stanford keyboard (as described under {bucky bits}).
The true space-cadet keyboard evolved from the Knight keyboard. :SPACEWAR: n.
A space-combat simulation game, inspired by E.
Doc" Smith's "Lensman" books, in which two spaceships duel around a central sun, shooting torpedoes at each other and jumping through hyperspace.
This game was first implemented on the PDP-1 at MIT in 1960--61.
SPACEWAR aficionados formed the core of the early hacker culture at MIT.
Nine years later, a descendant of the game motivated Ken Thompson to build, in his spare time on a scavenged PDP-7, the operating system that became {{UNIX}}.
Less than nine years after that, SPACEWAR was commercialized as one of the first video games; descendants are still {feep}ing in video arcades everywhere. :spaghetti code: n.
Code with a complex and tangled control structure, esp. one using many GOTOs, exceptions, or other `unstructured' branching constructs.
Coined in a (successful) attempt to discourage such practice, through guilt-by-association with {spaghetti code}. :spam: [from the {MUD} community] vt. To crash a program by overrunning a fixed-size buffer with excessively large input data.
See also {buffer overflow}, {overrun screw}, {smash the stack}. :special-case: vt. To write unique code to handle input to or situations arising in program that are somehow distinguished from normal processing.
A pattern of lights displayed on a linear set of LEDs (today) or nixie tubes (yesterday, on ancient mainframes). The pattern is shifted left every N times the software goes through its main loop.
A swiftly moving pattern indicates that the system is mostly idle; the speedometer slows down as the system becomes overloaded.
Syn. {incantation}. :spiffy: /spi'fee/ adj.
Said of programs having a pretty, clever, or exceptionally well-designed interface.
Have you seen the spiffy {X} version of {empire} yet?
Said sarcastically of a program that is perceived to have little more than a flashy interface going for it.
Which meaning should be drawn depends delicately on tone of voice and context.
This word was common mainstream slang during the 1940s, in a sense close to #1. :spike: v.
To defeat a selection mechanism by introducing a (sometimes temporary) device which forces a specific result.
In programming environments it normally refers to a temporary change, usually for testing purposes (as opposed to a permanent change which would be called {hardwired}). :spin: vi.
More common among C and UNIX programmers. :spl: /S-P-L/ [abbrev, from Set Priority Level] The way traditional UNIX kernels implement mutual exclusion by running code at high interrupt levels.
Used in jargon to describe the act of tuning in or tuning out ordinary communication.
Classically, spl levels run from 1 to 7; "Fred's at spl 6 today." would mean that he is very hard to interrupt.
Wait till I finish this; I'll spl down then.
See also {interrupts locked out}. :splat: n.
Name used in many places (DEC, IBM, and others) for the asterisk (`*') character (ASCII 0101010).
This may derive from the `squashed-bug' appearance of the asterisk on many early line printers.
2. [MIT] Name used by some people for the `#' character (ASCII 0100011).
3. [Rochester Institute of Technology] The {feature key} on a Mac (same as {alt}, sense 2).
4. [Stanford] Name used by some people for the Stanford/ITS extended ASCII circle-x character.
This character is also called `blobby' and `frob', among other names; it is sometimes used by mathematicians as a notation for `tensor product'.
5. [Stanford] Name for the semi-mythical extended ASCII circle-plus character.
Canonical name for an output routine that outputs whatever the local interpretation of `splat' is. With ITS and WAITS gone, senses 4--6 are now nearly obsolete.
See also {{ASCII}}. :spod: [Great Britain] n.
A lower form of life found on {talker system}s and {MUD}s.
The spod has few friends in {RL} and uses talkers instead, finding communication easier and preferable over the net.
He has all the negative traits of the {computer geek} without having any interest in computers per se.
It's in America!") and complaining when he is not allowed to use busy routes.
Compare {newbie}, {tourist}, {weenie}, {twink}, {terminal junkie}. :sponge: [UNIX] n.
A special case of a {filter} that reads its entire input before writing any output; the canonical example is a sort utility.
Unlike most filters, a sponge can conveniently overwrite the input file with the output data stream.
If your file system has versioning (as ITS did and VMS does now) the sponge/filter distinction loses its usefulness, because directing filter output would just write a new version.
See also {slurp}. :spooge: /spooj/ 1. n.
Inexplicable or arcane code, or random and probably incorrect output from a computer program.
The spooler usually understood is the `print spooler' controlling output of jobs to a printer, but the term has been used in connection with other peripherals (especially plotters and graphics devices) and occasionally even for input devices.
See also {demon}. :spool file: n.
Any file to which data is {spool}ed to await the next stage of processing.
Especially used in circumstances where spooling the data copes with a mismatch between speeds in two devices or pieces of software.
For example, when you send mail under UNIX, it's typically copied to a spool file to await a transport {demon}'s attentions.
This is borderline techspeak. :square tape: n.
Mainframe magnetic tape cartridges for use with IBM 3480 or compatible tape drives.
The term comes from the square (actually rectangular) shape of the cartridges; contrast {round tape}. :stack: n.
A person's stack is the set of things he or she has to do in the future.
One speaks of the next project to be attacked as having risen to the top of the stack.
I'm afraid I've got real work to do, so this'll have to be pushed way down on my stack." "I haven't done it yet because every time I pop my stack something new gets pushed.
If you are interrupted several times in the middle of a conversation, "My stack overflowed" means "I forget what we were talking about.
The implication is that more items were pushed onto the stack than could be remembered, so the least recent items were lost.
See also {push} and {pop}. At MIT, {pdl} used to be a more common synonym for {stack} in all these contexts, and this may still be true.
Everywhere else {stack} seems to be the preferred term. {Knuth} (`The Art of Computer Programming', second edition, vol. 1, p.
Some processor architectures are said to `puke their guts onto the stack' to save their internal state during exception processing.
The Motorola 68020, for example, regurgitates up to 92 bytes on a bus fault.
On a pipelined machine, this can take a while. :stale pointer bug: n.
Synonym for {aliasing bug} used esp. among microcomputer hackers. :state: n.
What's the state of your latest hack?
The system tried to read and write the disk simultaneously and got into a totally wedged state.
The standard question "What's your state?" means "What are you doing?" or "What are you about to do?
Typical answers are "about to gronk out", or "hungry".
Another standard question is "What's the state of the world?", meaning "What's new?" or "What's going on?".
The more terse and humorous way of asking these questions would be "State-p?". Another way of phrasing the first question under sense 1 would be "state-p latest hack?".
Information being maintained in non-permanent memory (electronic or human). :steam-powered: adj.
This term does not have a strong negative loading and may even be used semi-affectionately for something that clanks and wheezes a lot but hangs in there doing the job. :stiffy: [University of Lowell, Massachusetts.] n.
3.5-inch {microfloppies}, so called because their jackets are more firm than those of the 5.25-inch and the 8-inch floppy.
Elsewhere this might be called a `firmy'. :stir-fried random: alt. `stir-fried mumble' n.
Term used for the best dish of many of those hackers who can cook.
Consists of random fresh veggies and meat wokked with random spices.
See {random}, {great-wall}, {ravs}, {{laser chicken}}, {{oriental food}}; see also {mumble}. :stomp on: vt. To inadvertently overwrite something important, usually automatically.
All the work I did this weekend got stomped on last night by the nightly server script.
Compare {scribble}, {mangle}, {trash}, {scrog}, {roach}. :Stone Age: n., adj.
In computer folklore, an ill-defined period from ENIAC (ca. 1943) to the mid-1950s; the great age of electromechanical {dinosaur}s.
More generally, a pejorative for any crufty, ancient piece of hardware or software technology.
Note that this is used even by people who were there for the {Stone Age} (sense 1). :stone knives and bearskins: [ITS, prob. from the Star Trek Classic episode "The City on the Edge of Forever"] n.
As in "Don't get too used to the facilities here.
Once you leave MIT it's stone knives and bearskins as far as the eye can see".
Compare {steam-powered}. :stoppage: /sto'p*j/ n.
Extreme {lossage} that renders something (usually something vital) completely unusable.
The recent system stoppage was caused by a {fried} transformer." :store: [prob. from techspeak `main store'] n.
Preferred Commonwealth synonym for {core}.
Thus, `bringing a program into store' means not that one is returning shrink-wrapped software but that a program is being {swap}ped in. :stroke: n.
See {ASCII} for other synonyms. :strudel: n.
Common (spoken) name for the at-sign (`@', ASCII 1000000) character.
See {ASCII} for other synonyms. :stubroutine: /stuhb'roo-teen/ [contraction of `stub subroutine'] n.
Tiny, often vacuous placeholder for a subroutine that is to be written or fleshed out later. :studlycaps: /stuhd'lee-kaps/ n.
A hackish form of silliness similar to {BiCapitalization} for trademarks, but applied randomly and to arbitrary text rather than to trademarks.
ThE oRigiN and SigNificaNce of thIs pRacTicE iS oBscuRe. :stunning: adj.
Usually used in sarcasm. "You want to code *what* in ADA?
That's ... a stunning idea!" :stupid-sort: n.
Term used by {samurai} for the {suit}s who employ them; succinctly expresses an attitude at least as common, though usually better disguised, among other subcultures of hackers.
There may be intended reference here to an SF story originally published in 1952 but much anthologized since, Mark Clifton's `Star, Bright'.
In it, a super-genius child classifies humans into a very few `Brights' like herself, a huge majority of `Stupids', and a minority of `Tweens', the merely ordinary geniuses. :subshell: /suhb'shel/ [UNIX, MS-DOS] n.
An OS command interpreter (see {shell}) spawned from within a program, such that exit from the command interpreter returns one to the parent program in a state that allows it to continue execution.
Compare {shell out}; oppose {chain}. :sucking mud: [Applied Data Research] adj. (also `pumping mud') Crashed or wedged.
Usually said of a machine that provides some service to a network, such as a file server.
This Dallas regionalism derives from the East Texas oilfield lament, "Shut 'er down, Ma, she's a-suckin' mud".
Often used as a query.
We are going to reconfigure the network, are you ready to suck mud?" :sufficiently small: adj.
Syn. {suitably small}. :suit: n.
Ugly and uncomfortable `business clothing' often worn by non-hackers.
Invariably worn with a `tie', a strangulation device that partially cuts off the blood supply to the brain.
It is thought that this explains much about the behavior of suit-wearers.
A person who habitually wears suits, as distinct from a techie or hacker.
See {loser}, {burble}, {management}, {Stupids}, {SNAFU Principle}, and {brain-damaged}.
English, by the way, is relatively kind; our Moscow correspondent informs us that the corresponding idiom in Russian hacker jargon is `sovok', lit. a tool for grabbing garbage. :suitable win: n.
See {win}. :suitably small: [perverted from mathematical jargon] adj.
An expression used ironically to characterize unquantifiable behavior that differs from expected or required behavior.
Compare the characterization of pi under {{random numbers}}. :sun lounge: [Great Britain] n.
The room where all the Sun workstations live.
The humor in this term comes from the fact that it's also in mainstream use to describe a solarium, and all those Sun workstations clustered together give off an amazing amount of heat. :sun-stools: n.
Unflattering hackerism for SunTools, a pre-X windowing environment notorious in its day for size, slowness, and misfeatures. {X}, however, is larger and slower; see {second-system effect}. :sunspots: n.
Notional cause of an odd error.
Why did the program suddenly turn the screen blue?
Also the cause of {bit rot} --- from the myth that sunspots will increase {cosmic rays}, which can flip single bits in memory. See {cosmic rays}, {phase of the moon}. :superprogrammer: n.
A prolific programmer; one who can code exceedingly well and quickly.
Not all hackers are superprogrammers, but many are. (Productivity can vary from one programmer to another by three orders of magnitude.
For example, one programmer might be able to write an average of 3 lines of working code in one day, while another, with the proper tools, might be able to write 3,000.
This range is astonishing; it is matched in very few other areas of human endeavor.) The term `superprogrammer' is more commonly used within such places as IBM than in the hacker community.
Hackers tend to prefer the terms {hacker} and {wizard}. :superuser: [UNIX] n.
This usage has spread to non-UNIX environments; the superuser is any account with all {wheel} bits on.
A more specific term than {wheel}. :support: n.
After-sale handholding; something many software vendors promise but few deliver.
To hackers, most support people are useless --- because by the time a hacker calls support he or she will usually know the relevant manuals better than the support people (sadly, this is *not* a joke or exaggeration).
A hacker's idea of `support' is a t^ete-`a-t^ete with the software's designer. :Suzie COBOL: /soo'zee koh'bol/ 1. [IBM: prob. from Frank Zappa's `Suzy Creamcheese'] n.
Random Hacker}. :swab: /swob/ [From the mnemonic for the PDP-11 `SWAp Byte' instruction, as immortalized in the `dd(1)' option `conv=swab' (see {dd})] 1. vt. To solve the {NUXI problem} by swapping bytes in a file.
The program in V7 UNIX used to perform this action, or anything functionally equivalent to it.
See also {big-endian}, {little-endian}, {middle-endian}, {bytesexual}. :swap: vt. 1. [techspeak] To move information from a fast-access memory to a slow-access memory (`swap out'), or vice versa (`swap in').
Often refers specifically to the use of disks as `virtual memory'.
As pieces of data or program are needed, they are swapped into {core} for processing; when they are no longer needed they may be swapped out again.
The jargon use of these terms analogizes people's short-term memories with core.
Cramming for an exam might be spoken of as swapping in. If you temporarily forget someone's name, but then remember it, your excuse is that it was swapped out.
Compare {page in}, {page out}. :swap space: n.
Storage space, especially temporary storage space used during a move or reconfiguration.
I'm just using that corner of the machine room for swap space." :swapped in: n.
See also {page in}. :swapped out: n.
See also {page out}. :swizzle: v.
The converse operation is sometimes termed `unswizzling'.
See also {snap}. :sync: /sink/ (var. `synch') n., vi.
To synchronize, to bring into synchronization.
2. [techspeak] To force all pending I/O to the disk; see {flush}, sense 2.
More generally, to force a number of competing processes or agents to a state that would be `safe' if the system were to crash; thus, to checkpoint (in the database-theory sense). :syntactic sugar: [coined by Peter Landin] n.
Features added to a language or other formalism to make it `sweeter' for humans, that do not affect the expressiveness of the formalism (compare {chrome}).
Used esp. when there is an obvious and trivial translation of the `sugar' feature into other constructs already present in the notation.
C's `a[i]' notation is syntactic sugar for `*(a + i)'.
Syntactic sugar causes cancer of the semicolon." --- Alan Perlis. The variants `syntactic saccharine' and `syntactic syrup' are also recorded.
These denotes something even more gratuitous, in that syntactic sugar serves a purpose (making something more acceptable to humans) but syntactic saccharine or syrup serves no purpose at all.
Compare {candygrammar}. :sys-frog: /sis'frog/ [the PLATO system] n.
Playful variant of `sysprog', which is in turn short for `systems programmer'. :sysadmin: /sis'ad-min/ n.
Common contraction of `system admin'; see {admin}. :sysape: /sysape/ n.
A common neophyte mistake on {FidoNet} is to address a message to `sysop' in an international {echo}, thus sending it to hundreds of sysops around the world. :system: n.
The supervisor program or OS on a computer.
The entire computer system, including input/output devices, the supervisor program or OS, and possibly other software.
5. `System hacker': one who hacks the system (in senses 1 and 2 only; for sense 3 one mentions the particular program: e.g., `LISP hacker') :systems jock: n.
See {jock}, (sense 2). :system mangler: n.
Humorous synonym for `system manager', poss. from the fact that one major IBM OS had a {root} account called SYSMANGR.
Refers specifically to a systems programmer in charge of administration, software maintenance, and updates at some site. Unlike {admin}, this term emphasizes the technical end of the skills involved. :SysVile: /sis-vi:l'/ n.
See {Missed'em-five}. = T = ===== :T: /T/ 1. [from LISP terminology for `true'] Yes.
Used in reply to a question (particularly one asked using the `-P' convention).
In LISP, the constant T means `true', among other things.
Some hackers use `T' and `NIL' instead of `Yes' and `No' almost reflexively.
When a waiter or flight attendant asks whether a hacker wants coffee, he may well respond `T', meaning that he wants coffee; but of course he will be brought a cup of tea instead.
As it happens, most hackers (particularly those who frequent Chinese restaurants) like tea at least as well as coffee --- so it is not that big a problem. 2.
See {time T} (also {since time T equals minus infinity}). 3. [techspeak] In transaction-processing circles, an abbreviation for the noun `transaction'.
4. [Purdue] Alternate spelling of {tee}.
A dialect of {LISP} developed at Yale. :tail recursion: n.
If you aren't sick of it already, see {tail recursion}. :talk mode: n.
A feature supported by UNIX, ITS, and some other OSes that allows two or more logged-in users to set up a real-time on-line conversation.
The login name is often shortened to a unique prefix (possibly a single letter) during a very long conversation. /\/\/\ A giggle or chuckle.
On a MUD, this usually means `earthquake fault'. Most of the above sub-jargon is used at both Stanford and MIT. Several of these expressions are also common in {email}, esp. FYI, FYA, BTW, BCNU, WTF, and CUL.
The use of `rehi' is also common; in fact, mudders are fond of re- compounds and will frequently `rehug' or `rebonk' (see {bonk/oif}) people.
The word `re' by itself is taken as `regreet'.
This is not the best approach.
It can be very frustrating to wait while your partner pauses to think of a word, or repeatedly makes the same spelling error and backs up to fix it.
British hackerism for software that enables real-time chat or {talk mode}. :tall card: n.
A PC/AT-size expansion card (these can be larger than IBM PC or XT cards because the AT case is bigger).
Same as {down}, used primarily by UNIX hackers.
Don't tell me I have to implement a database back end to get my address book program to work!
The quality in a program that tends to be inversely proportional to the number of features, hacks, and kluges programmed into it.
This feature comes in N tasty flavors." Although `tasteful' and `flavorful' are essentially synonyms, `taste' and {flavor} are not.
Taste refers to sound judgment on the part of the creator; a program or feature can *exhibit* taste but cannot *have* taste.
On the other hand, a feature can have {flavor}.
Also, {flavor} has the additional meaning of `kind' or `variety' not shared by `taste'. {Flavor} is a more popular word than `taste', though both are used.
Alt. sp. of {tayste}. :tayste: /tayst/ n.
Two bits; also as {taste}.
Compare {{byte}}, {dynner}, {playte}, {nybble}, {quad}. :TCB: /T-C-B/ [IBM] n.
An intermittent or difficult-to-reproduce problem that has failed to respond to neglect.
Not to be confused with: 2.
Trusted Computing Base, an `official' jargon term from the {Orange Book}. :tea, ISO standard cup of: [South Africa] n.
A cup of tea with milk and one teaspoon of sugar, where the milk is poured into the cup before the tea.
If one were feeling extremely silly, one might hypothesize an analogous `ANSI standard cup of tea' and wind up with a political situation distressingly similar to several that arise in much more serious technical contexts.
Milk and lemon don't mix very well. :TechRef: /tek'ref/ [MS-DOS] n.
The original `IBM PC Technical Reference Manual', including the BIOS listing and complete schematics for the PC.
The only PC documentation in the issue package that's considered serious by real hackers. :TECO: /tee'koh/ obs.
1. vt. Originally, to edit using the TECO editor in one of its infinite variations (see below).
2. vt.,obs. To edit even when TECO is *not* the editor being used!
This usage is rare and now primarily historical.
2. [originally an acronym for `[paper] Tape Editor and COrrector'; later, `Text Editor and COrrector'] n.
A text editor developed at MIT and modified by just about everybody.
With all the dialects included, TECO might have been the most prolific editor in use before {EMACS}, to which it was directly ancestral.
Noted for its powerful programming-language-like features and its unspeakably hairy syntax.
It is literally the case that every string of characters is a valid TECO program (though probably not a useful one); one common hacker game used to be mentally working out what the TECO commands corresponding to human names did.
As an example of TECO's obscurity, here is a TECO program that takes a list of names such as: Loser, J.
Random Quux, The Great Dick, Moby sorts them alphabetically according to surname, and then puts the surname last, removing the comma, to produce the following: Moby Dick J.
The first hack at it had a {bug}: GLS (the author) had accidentally omitted the `@' in front of `F^B', which as anyone can see is clearly the {Wrong Thing}.
It worked fine the second time.
There is no space to describe all the features of TECO, but it may be of interest that `^P' means `sort' and `J<.-Z; ...
See also {retrocomputing}, {write-only language}. :tee: n.,vt. [Purdue] A carbon copy of an electronic transmission. "Oh, you're sending him the {bits} to that?
Slap on a tee for me.
From the UNIX command `tee(1)', itself named after a pipe fitting (see {plumbing}).
Can also mean `save one for me', as in "Tee a slice for me!
Also spelled `T'. :Telerat: /tel'*-rat/ n.
Unflattering hackerism for `Teleray', a line of extremely losing terminals.
Compare {AIDX}, {terminak}, {Macintrash} {Nominal Semidestructor}, {Open DeathTrap}, {ScumOS}, {sun-stools}, {HP-SUX}. :TELNET: /tel'net/ vt. To communicate with another Internet host using the {TELNET} protocol (usually using a program of the same name).
TOPS-10 people used the word IMPCOM, since that was the program name for them.
Sometimes abbreviated to TN /T-N/.
I usually TN over to SAIL just to read the AP News." :ten-finger interface: n.
The interface between two networks that cannot be directly connected for security reasons; refers to the practice of placing two terminals side by side and having an operator read from one and type into the other. :tense: adj.
Of programs, very clever and efficient.
A tense piece of code often got that way because it was highly {bum}med, but sometimes it was just based on a great idea.
A comment in a clever routine by Mike Kazar, once a grad-student hacker at CMU: "This routine is so tense it will bring tears to your eyes.
A tense programmer is one who produces tense code. :tenured graduate student: n.
One who has been in graduate school for 10 years (the usual maximum is 5 or 6): a `ten-yeared' student (get it?).
Actually, this term may be used of any grad student beginning in his seventh year.
Students don't really get tenure, of course, the way professors do, but a tenth-year graduate student has probably been around the university longer than any untenured professor. :tera-: /te'r*/ [SI] pref.
See {{quantifiers}}. :teraflop club: /te'r*-flop kluhb/ [FLOP = Floating Point Operation] n.
A mythical association of people who consume outrageous amounts of computer time in order to produce a few simple pictures of glass balls with intricate ray-tracing techniques.
Caltech professor James Kajiya is said to have been the founder. :terminak: /ter'mi-nak`/ [Caltech, ca. 1979] n.
A common failure mode of Lear-Siegler ADM 3a terminals caused the `L' key to produce the `K' code instead; complaints about this tended to look like "Terminak #3 has a bad keyboard.
See {AIDX}, {Nominal Semidestructor}, {Open DeathTrap}, {ScumOS}, {sun-stools}, {Telerat}, {HP-SUX}. :terminal brain death: n.
The extreme form of {terminal illness} (sense 1).
What someone who has obviously been hacking continuously for far too long is said to be suffering from. :terminal illness: n.
The `burn-in' condition your CRT tends to get if you don't have a screen saver. :terminal junkie: [UK] n.
A {wannabee} or early {larval stage} hacker who spends most of his or her time wandering the directory tree and writing {noddy} programs just to get a fix of computer time.
Variants include `terminal jockey', `console junkie', and {console jockey}.
The term `console jockey' seems to imply more expertise than the other three (possibly because of the exalted status of the {{console}} relative to an ordinary terminal).
See also {twink}, {read-only user}. :terpri: /ter'pree/ [from LISP 1.5 (and later, MacLISP)] vi.
Now rare as jargon, though still used as techspeak in Common LISP.
Real users bashing on a prototype long enough to get thoroughly acquainted with it, with careful monitoring and followup of the results.
Some bored random user trying a couple of the simpler features with a developer looking over his or her shoulder, ready to pounce on mistakes.
Judging by the quality of most software, the second definition is far more prevalent.
See also {demo}. :TeX: /tekh/ n.
An extremely powerful {macro}-based text formatter written by Donald E. {Knuth}, very popular in the computer-science community (it is good enough to have displaced UNIX `troff(1)', the other favored formatter, even at many UNIX installations).
TeX fans insist on the correct (guttural) pronunciation, and the correct spelling (all caps, squished together, with the E depressed below the baseline; the mixed-case `TeX' is considered an acceptable kluge on ASCII-only devices).
In a manifestation of the typical hackish urge to solve the problem at hand once and for all, he began to design his own typesetting language.
He thought he would finish it on his sabbatical in 1978; he was wrong by only about 8 years.
The language was finally frozen around 1985, but volume IV of `The Art of Computer Programming' has yet to appear as of mid-1991.
The impact and influence of TeX's design has been such that nobody minds this very much.
Many grand hackish projects have started as a bit of tool-building on the way to something else; Knuth's diversion was simply on a grander scale than most. TeX{} has also been a noteworthy example of free, shared, but high-quality software.
Knuth used to offer monetary awards to people who found and reported bugs in it; as the years wore on and the few remaining bugs were fixed (and new ones even harder to find), the bribe went up.
Though well-written, TeX{} is so large (and so full of cutting edge technique) that it is said to have unearthed at least one bug in every Pascal it has been compiled with. :text: n.
1. [techspeak] Executable code, esp. a `pure code' portion shared between multiple instances of a program running in a multitasking OS (compare {English}).
Textual material in the mainstream sense; data in ordinary {{ASCII}} or {{EBCDIC}} representation (see {flat-ASCII}).
Those are text files; you can review them using the editor.
These two contradictory senses confuse hackers, too. :thanks in advance: [USENET] Conventional net.politeness ending a posted request for information or assistance.
Sometimes written `advTHANKSance' or `aTdHvAaNnKcSe' or abbreviated `TIA'.
See {net.-}, {netiquette}. :That's not a bug, that's a feature!: The {canonical} first parry in a debate about a purported bug.
The complainant, if unconvinced, is likely to retort that the bug is then at best a {misfeature}.
See also {feature}. :the X that can be Y is not the true X: Yet another instance of hackerdom's peculiar attraction to mystical references --- a common humorous way of making exclusive statements about a class of things.
The template is from the `Tao te Ching': "The Tao which can be spoken of is not the true Tao.
The implication is often that the X is a mystery accessible only to the enlightened.
See the {trampoline} entry for an example, and compare {has the X nature}. :theology: n.
Ironically or humorously used to refer to {religious issues}.
Technical fine points of an abstruse nature, esp. those where the resolution is of theoretical interest but is relatively {marginal} with respect to actual use of a design or system.
Used esp. around software issues with a heavy AI or language-design component, such as the smart-data vs. smart-programs dispute in AI. :theory: n.
The consensus, idea, plan, story, or set of rules that is currently being used to inform a behavior.
This is a generalization and abuse of the technical meaning.
What's the theory on fixing this TECO loss?
What's the theory on dinner tonight?" ("Chinatown, I guess.") "What's the current theory on letting lusers on during the day?
The theory behind this change is to fix the following well-known screw...." :thinko: /thing'koh/ [by analogy with `typo'] n.
A momentary, correctable glitch in mental processing, especially one involving recall of information learned by rote; a bubble in the stream of consciousness.
Syn. {braino}; see also {brain fart}. Compare {mouso}. :This can't happen: Less clipped variant of {can't happen}. :This time, for sure!: excl.
Ritual affirmation frequently uttered during protracted debugging sessions involving numerous small obstacles (e.g., attempts to bring up a UUCP connection).
For the proper effect, this must be uttered in a fruity imitation of Bullwinkle J.
Watch me pull a rabbit out of my hat!
The {canonical} response is, of course, "But that trick *never* works!
See {{Humor, Hacker}}. :thrash: vi.
To move wildly or violently, without accomplishing anything useful.
Paging or swapping systems that are overloaded waste most of their time moving data into and out of core (rather than performing useful computation) and are therefore said to thrash.
Someone who keeps changing his mind (esp. about what to work on next) is said to be thrashing.
A person frantically trying to execute too many tasks at once (and not spending enough time on any single task) may also be described as thrashing.
Compare {multitask}. :thread: n. [USENET, GEnie, CompuServe] Common abbreviation of `topic thread', a more or less continuous chain of postings on a single topic.
To `follow a thread' is to read a series of USENET postings sharing a common subject or (more correctly) which are connected by Reference headers.
The better newsreaders present news in thread order. :three-finger salute: n.
Syn. {Vulcan nerve pinch}. :thud: n.
Yet another {metasyntactic variable} (see {foo}). It is reported that at CMU from the mid-1970s the canonical series of these was `foo', `bar', `thud', `blat'.
Rare term for the hash character, `#' (ASCII 0100011).
See {ASCII} for other synonyms. :thumb: n.
The slider on a window-system scrollbar.
So called because moving it allows you to browse through the contents of a text window in a way analogous to thumbing through a book. :thunk: /thuhnk/ n.
A piece of coding which provides an address", according to P.
Ingerman, who invented thunks in 1961 as a way of binding actual parameters to their formal definitions in Algol-60 procedure calls.
If a procedure is called with an expression in the place of a formal parameter, the compiler generates a {thunk} to compute the expression and leave the address of the result in some standard location.
Later generalized into: an expression, frozen together with its environment, for later evaluation if and when needed (similar to what in techspeak is called a `closure').
The process of unfreezing these thunks is called `forcing'.
A {stubroutine}, in an overlay programming environment, that loads and jumps to the correct overlay.
People and activities scheduled in a thunklike manner.
The most common is that it is the sound made by data hitting the stack; another holds that the sound is that of the data hitting an accumulator.
Yet another holds that it is the sound of the expression being unfrozen at argument-evaluation time.
In other words, it had `already been thought of'; thus it was christened a `thunk', which is "the past tense of `think' at two in the morning". :tick: n.
In simulations, the discrete unit of time that passes between iterations of the simulation mechanism.
In AI applications, this amount of time is often left unspecified, since the only constraint of interest is the ordering of events.
This sort of AI simulation is often pejoratively referred to as `tick-tick-tick' simulation, especially when the issue of simultaneity of events with long, independent chains of causes is {handwave}d.
In the FORTH language, a single quote character. :tick-list features: [Acorn Computers] n.
Features in software or hardware that customers insist on but never use (calculators in desktop TSRs and that sort of thing).
The American equivalent would be `checklist features', but this jargon sense of the phrase has not been reported. :tickle a bug: vt. To cause a normally hidden bug to manifest through some known series of inputs or operations.
You can tickle the bug in the Paradise VGA card's highlight handling by trying to set bright yellow reverse video." :tiger team: [U.S. military jargon] n.
Serious successes of tiger teams sometimes lead to early retirement for base commanders and security officers (see the {patch} entry for an example). 2.
Some of their escapades, if declassified, would probably rank among the greatest hacks of all times.
The term has been adopted in commercial computer-security circles in this more specific sense. :time sink: [poss. by analogy with `heat sink' or `current sink'] n. A project that consumes unbounded amounts of time. :time T: /ti:m T/ n.
For a software project, the scheduling uncertainty factor is usually at least 2. :tinycrud: /ti:'nee-kruhd/ n.
A pejorative used by habitues of older game-oriented {MUD} versions for TinyMUDs and other user-extensible {MUD} variants; esp. common among users of the rather violent and competitive AberMUD and MIST systems.
These people justify the slur on the basis of how (allegedly) inconsistent and lacking in genuine atmosphere the scenarios generated in user extensible MUDs can be.
Other common knocks on them are that they feature little overall plot, bad game topology, little competitive interaction, etc. --- not to mention the alleged horrors of the TinyMUD code itself.
This dispute is one of the MUD world's hardiest perennial {holy wars}.
TinyMud-oriented chat on the USENET group rec.games.mud and elsewhere, especially {newbie} questions and flamage. :tip of the ice-cube: [IBM] n.
The visible part of something small and insignificant.
Used as an ironic comment in situations where `tip of the iceberg' might be appropriate if the subject were at all important. :tired iron: [IBM] n.
Self-describing abbreviation for a species with which computing terminology is infested.
Examples include MCA, FTP, SNA, CPU, MMU, SCCS, DMU, FPU, NNTP, TLA.
People who like this looser usage argue that not all TLAs have three letters, just as not all four-letter words have four letters.
One also hears of `ETLA' (Extended Three-Letter Acronym, pronounced /ee tee el ay/) being used to describe four-letter acronyms.
The term `SFLA' (Stupid Four-Letter Acronym) has also been reported.
See also {YABA}. The self-effacing phrase "TDM TLA" (Too Damn Many...) is often used to bemoan the plethora of TLAs in use.
In 1989, a random of the journalistic persuasion asked hacker Paul Boutin "What do you think will be the biggest problem in computing in the 90s?
Paul's straight-faced response: "There are only 17,000 three-letter acronyms." (To be exact, there are 26^3 = 17,576.) :TMRC: /tmerk'/ n.
The Tech Model Railroad Club at MIT, one of the wellsprings of hacker culture.
The control system alone featured about 1200 relays.
There were {scram switch}es located at numerous places around the room that could be thwacked if something undesirable was about to occur, such as a train going full-bore at an obstruction.
TMRC's Power and Signals group included most of the early PDP-1 hackers and the people who later bacame the core of the MIT AI Lab staff.
Thirty years later that connection is still very much alive, and this lexicon accordingly includes a number of entries from a recent revision of the TMRC Dictionary. :TMRCie: /tmerk'ee/, /tuh-merk'ee/ [MIT] n.
In jargon, a preface to any comment that indicates that the comment is only approximately true.
Compare {social science number}. :toast: 1. n.
Any completely inoperable system or component, esp. one that has just crashed and burned: "Uh, oh ...
I think the serial board is toast.
2. vt. To cause a system to crash accidentally, especially in a manner that requires manual rebooting.
Rick just toasted the {firewall machine} again." :toaster: n.
The archetypal really stupid application for an embedded microprocessor controller; often used in comments that imply that a scheme is inappropriate technology (but see {elevator controller}). "{DWIM} for an assembler?
That'd be as silly as running UNIX on your toaster!
A very, very dumb computer.
You could run this program on any dumb toaster.
See {bitty box}, {Get a real computer!}, {toy}, {beige toaster}. 3.
A Macintosh, esp. the Classic Mac.
Some hold that this is implied by sense 2.
I bought my box without toasters, but since then I've added two boards and a second disk drive." :toeprint: n.
A {footprint} of especially small size. :toggle: vt. To change a {bit} from whatever state it is in to the other state; to change from 1 to 0 or from 0 to 1.
A program used primarily to create, manipulate, modify, or analyze other programs, such as a compiler or an editor or a cross-referencing program.
Oppose {app}, {operating system}. 2. [UNIX] An application program with a simple, `transparent' (typically text-stream) interface designed specifically to be used in programmed combination with other tools (see {filter}). 3. [MIT: general to students there] vi.
To work; to study (connotes tedium).
The TMRC Dictionary defined this as "to set one's brain to the grindstone".
A student who studies too much and hacks too little. (MIT's student humor magazine rejoices in the name `Tool and Die'.) :toolsmith: n.
The software equivalent of a tool-and-die specialist; one who specializes in making the {tool}s with which other programmers create applications.
Many hackers consider this more fun than applications per se; to understand why, see {uninteresting}.
Jon Bentley, in the "Bumper-Sticker Computer Science" chapter of his book `More Programming Pearls', quotes Dick Sites from DEC as saying "I'd rather write programs to write programs than write programs". :topic drift: n.
Often used in gentle reminders that the discussion has strayed off any useful track.
I think we started with a question about Niven's last book, but we've ended up discussing the sexual habits of the common marmoset.
Now *that's* topic drift!" :topic group: n.
Syn. {forum}. :TOPS-10:: /tops-ten/ n.
DEC's proprietary OS for the fabled {PDP-10} machines, long a favorite of hackers but now effectively extinct. A fountain of hacker folklore; see {appendix A}.
See also {{ITS}}, {{TOPS-20}}, {{TWENEX}}, {VMS}, {operating system}.
TOPS-10 was sometimes called BOTS-10 (from `bottoms-ten') as a comment on the inappropriateness of describing it as the top of anything. :TOPS-20:: /tops-twen'tee/ n.
See {{TWENEX}}. :toto: /toh'toh/ n.
This is reported to be the default scratch file name among French-speaking programmers --- in other words, a francophone {foo}.
It is reported that the phonetic mutations "titi", "tata", and "tutu" canonically follow `toto', analogously to {bar}, {baz} and {quux} in English. :tourist: [ITS] n.
A guest on the system, especially one who generally logs in over a network from a remote location for {comm mode}, email, games, and other trivial purposes.
Hackers often spell this {turist}, perhaps by some sort of tenuous analogy with {luser} (this also expresses the ITS culture's penchant for six-letterisms).
Compare {twink}, {read-only user}. :tourist information: n.
Information in an on-line display that is not immediately useful, but contributes to a viewer's gestalt of what's going on with the software or hardware behind it.
Whether a given piece of info falls in this category depends partly on what the user is looking for at any given time.
The `bytes free' information at the bottom of an MS-DOS `dir' display is tourist information; so (most of the time) is the TIME information in a UNIX `ps(1)' display. :touristic: adj.
Having the quality of a {tourist}.
Often used as a pejorative, as in `losing touristic scum'.
Often spelled `turistic' or `turistik', so that phrase might be more properly rendered `lusing turistic scum'. :toy: n.
A computer system; always used with qualifiers. 1. `nice toy': One that supports the speaker's hacking style adequately.
2. `just a toy': A machine that yields insufficient {computron}s for the speaker's preferred uses.
See also {Get a real computer!}. :toy language: n.
Several moderately well-known formalisms for conceptual tasks such as programming Turing machines also qualify as toy languages in a less negative sense. See also {MFTL}. :toy problem: [AI] n.
A deliberately oversimplified case of a challenging problem used to investigate, prototype, or test algorithms for a real problem.
See also {gedanken}, {toy program}. :toy program: n.
One that can be readily comprehended; hence, a trivial program (compare {noddy}).
One for which the effort of initial coding dominates the costs through its life cycle. See also {noddy}. :trampoline: n.
An incredibly {hairy} technique, found in some {HLL} and program-overlay implementations (e.g., on the Macintosh), that involves on-the-fly generation of small executable (and, likely as not, self-modifying) code objects to do indirection between code sections.
These pieces of {live data} are called `trampolines'.
Trampolines are notoriously difficult to understand in action; in fact, it is said by those who use this term that the trampoline that doesn't bend your brain is not the true trampoline.
See also {snap}. :trap: 1. n.
A program interrupt, usually an interrupt caused by some exceptional situation in the user program.
In most cases, the OS performs some action, then returns control to the program. 2. vi.
These instructions trap to the monitor.
Also used transitively to indicate the cause of the trap.
The monitor traps all input/output instructions." This term is associated with assembler programming (`interrupt' or `exception' is more common among {HLL} programmers) and appears to be fading into history among programmers as the role of assembler continues to shrink.
However, it is still important to computer architects and systems hackers (see {system}, sense 1), who use it to distinguish deterministically repeatable exceptions from timing-dependent ones (such as I/O interrupts). :trap door: alt. `trapdoor' n.
Syn. {back door} --- a {Bad Thing}.
2. [techspeak] A `trap-door function' is one which is easy to compute but very difficult to compute the inverse of.
To sift through large volumes of data (e.g. USENET postings or FTP archives) looking for something of interest. :tree-killer: [Sun] n.
A person who wastes paper. This should be interpreted in a broad sense; `wasting paper' includes the production of {spiffy} but {content-free} documents.
Thus, most {suit}s are tree-killers.
The negative loading of this term may reflect the epithet `tree-killer' applied by Treebeard the Ent to the Orcs in J.R.R.
Tolkien's `Lord of the Rings' trilogy (see also {elvish}, {elder days}). :trit: /trit/ [by analogy with `bit'] n.
One base-3 digit; the amount of information conveyed by a selection among one of three equally likely outcomes (see also {bit}).
These arise, for example, in the context of a {flag} that should actually be able to assume *three* values --- such as yes, no, or unknown.
Trits are sometimes jokingly called `3-state bits'.
A trit may be semi-seriously referred to as `a bit and a half', although it is linearly equivalent to 1.5849625 bits (that is, log2(3) bits). :trivial: adj.
Too simple to bother detailing.
Not worth the speaker's time.
Complex, but solvable by methods so well known that anyone not utterly {cretinous} would have thought of them already.
Any problem one has already solved (some claim that hackish `trivial' usually evaluates to `I've seen it before'). Hackers' notions of triviality may be quite at variance with those of non-hackers.
See {nontrivial}, {uninteresting}. :troff: /tee'rof/ or /trof/ [UNIX] n.
A companion program, `nroff', formats output for terminals and line printers. In 1979, Brian Kernighan modified TROFF so that it could drive phototypesetters other than the Graphic Systems CAT.
His paper describing that work ("A Typesetter-independent TROFF," AT&T CSTR #97) explains `troff''s durability.
A hacker who never leaves his cubicle.
The term `Gnoll' (from Dungeons & Dragons) is also reported.
A curmudgeon attached to an obsolescent computing environment.
Programming with the lights turned off, sunglasses on, and the terminal inverted (black on white) because you've been up for so many days straight that your eyes hurt (see {raster burn}).
Loud music blaring from a stereo stacked in the corner is optional but recommended.
See {larval stage}, {hack mode}. :Trojan horse: [coined by MIT-hacker-turned-NSA-spook Dan Edwards] n.
See {back door}, {virus}, {worm}. :tron: [NRL, CMU; prob. fr. the movie `Tron'] v.
To become inaccessible except via email or `talk(1)', especially when one is normally available via telephone or in person.
Frequently used in the past tense, as in: "Ran seems to have tronned on us this week" or "Gee, Ran, glad you were able to un-tron yourself".
One may also speak of `tron mode'. :true-hacker: [analogy with `trufan' from SF fandom] n.
One who exemplifies the primary values of hacker culture, esp. competence and helpfulness to other hackers.
He spent 6 hours helping me bring up UUCP and netnews on my FOOBAR 4000 last week --- manifestly the act of a true-hacker.
Compare {demigod}, oppose {munchkin}. :tty: /T-T-Y/ [UNIX], /tit'ee/ [ITS, but some UNIX people say it this way as well; this pronunciation is not considered to have sexual undertones] n.
A terminal of the teletype variety, characterized by a noisy mechanical printer, a very limited character set, and poor print quality.
Usage: antiquated (like the TTYs themselves).
See also {bit-paired keyboard}. 2. [especially UNIX] Any terminal at all; sometimes used to refer to the particular terminal controlling a given job.
3. [UNIX] Any serial port, whether or not the device connected to it is a terminal; so called because under UNIX such devices have names of the form tty*.
Ambiguity between senses 2 and 3 is common but seldom bothersome. :tube: 1. n.
Never used in the mainstream sense of TV; real hackers don't watch TV, except for Loony Toons, Rocky & Bullwinkle, Trek Classic, the Simpsons, and the occasional cheesy old swashbuckler movie (see {appendix B}).
2. [IBM] To send a copy of something to someone else's terminal.
Tube me that note?" :tube time: n.
Time spent at a terminal or console.
More inclusive than hacking time; commonly used in discussions of what parts of one's environment one uses most heavily.
I find I'm spending too much of my tube time reading mail since I started this revision." :tunafish: n.
In hackish lore, refers to the mutated punchline of an age-old joke to be found at the bottom of the manual pages of `tunefs(8)' in the original {BSD} 4.2 distribution.
The joke was removed in later releases once commercial sites started using 4.2.
One may `tune for time' (fastest execution), `tune for space' (least memory use), or `tune for configuration' (most efficient use of hardware).
See {bum}, {hot spot}, {hand-hacking}. :turbo nerd: n.
See {computer geek}. :Turing tar-pit: n.
A place where anything is possible but nothing of interest is practical.
However, no machine or language exactly matching Turing's primitive set has ever been built (other than possibly as a classroom exercise), because it would be horribly slow and far too painful to use.
The perennial {holy wars} over whether language A or B is the "most powerful". :turist: /too'rist/ n.
Var. sp. of {tourist}, q.v. Also in adjectival form, `turistic'.
Poss. influenced by {luser} and `Turing'. :tweak: vt. 1.
To change slightly, usually in reference to a value. Also used synonymously with {twiddle}.
If a program is almost correct, rather than figure out the precise problem you might just keep tweaking it until it works.
See {frobnicate} and {fudge factor}; also see {shotgun debugging}.
To {tune} or {bum} a program; preferred usage in the U.K. :tweeter: [University of Waterloo] n.
Syn. {perf}, {chad} (sense 1).
This term (like {woofer}) has been in use at Waterloo since 1972, but is elsewhere unknown.
In audio jargon, the word refers to the treble speaker(s) on a hi-fi. :TWENEX:: /twe'neks/ n.
The TOPS-20 operating system by DEC --- the second proprietary OS for the PDP-10 --- preferred by most PDP-10 hackers over TOPS-10 (that is, by those who were not {{ITS}} or {{WAITS}} partisans).
TOPS-20 began in 1969 as Bolt, Beranek & Newman's TENEX operating system using special paging hardware.
By the early 1970s, almost all of the systems on the ARPANET ran TENEX.
DEC purchased the rights to TENEX from BBN and began work to make it their own.
The first in-house code name for the operating system was VIROS (VIRtual memory Operating System); when customers started asking questions, the name was changed to SNARK so DEC could truthfully deny that there was any project called VIROS.
When the name SNARK became known, the name was briefly reversed to become KRANS; this was quickly abandoned when it was discovered that `krans' meant `funeral wreath' in Swedish.
Ultimately DEC picked TOPS-20 as the name of the operating system, and it was as TOPS-20 that it was marketed.
The hacker community, mindful of its origins, quickly dubbed it {{TWENEX}} (a contraction of `twenty TENEX'), even though by this point very little of the original TENEX code remained (analogously to the differences between AT&T V6 UNIX and BSD).
Also called `squiggle', `sqiggle' (sic --- pronounced /skig'l/), and `twaddle', but twiddle is the most common term.
A small and insignificant change to a program.
Usually fixes one bug and generates several new ones.
3. vt. To change something in a small way.
Bits, for example, are often twiddled.
Twiddling a switch or knob implies much less sense of purpose than toggling or tweaking it; see {frobnicate}.
To speak of twiddling a bit connotes aimlessness, and at best doesn't specify what you're doing to the bit; `toggling a bit' has a more specific meaning (see {bit twiddling}, {toggle}). :twilight zone: [IRC] n.
Notionally, the area of cyberspace where {IRC} operators live.
An {op} is said to have a "connection to the twilight zone". :twink: /twink/ [UCSC] n.
Equivalent to {read-only user}. Also reported on the USENET group soc.motss; may derive from gay slang for a cute young thing with nothing upstairs (compare mainstream `chick'). :two pi: quant.
The number of years it takes to finish one's thesis.
Occurs in stories in the following form: "He started on his thesis; 2 pi years later..." :two-to-the-N: quant.
An amount much larger than {N} but smaller than {infinity}.
I have 2-to-the-N things to do before I can go out for lunch" means you probably won't show up. :twonkie: /twon'kee/ n.
The software equivalent of a Twinkie (a variety of sugar-loaded junk food, or (in gay slang) the male equivalent of `chick'); a useless `feature' added to look sexy and placate a {marketroid} (compare {Saturday-night special}).
This may also be related to "The Twonky", title menace of a classic SF short story by Lewis Padgett (Henry Kuttner and C.
Compare {pilot error}; oppose {PBD}; see also {brain-damaged}. :UN*X: n.
Used to refer to the UNIX operating system (a trademark of AT&T) in writing, but avoiding the need for the ugly {(TM)} typography. Also used to refer to any or all varieties of Unixoid operating systems.
Ironically, lawyers now say (1990) that the requirement for the TM-postfix has no legal force, but the asterisk usage is entrenched anyhow.
It has been suggested that there may be a psychological connection to practice in certain religions (especially Judaism) in which the name of the deity is never written out in full, e.g., `YHWH' or `G--d' is used.
See also {glob}. :undefined external reference: excl. [UNIX] A message from UNIX's linker.
Used in speech to flag loose ends or dangling references in an argument or discussion. :under the hood: prep. [hot-rodder talk] 1.
Used to introduce the underlying implementation of a product (hardware, software, or idea).
Implies that the implementation is not intuitively obvious from the appearance, but the speaker is about to enable the listener to {grok} it.
Let's now look under the hood to see how ....
Can also imply that the implementation is much simpler than the appearance would indicate: "Under the hood, we are just fork/execing the shell.
Inside a chassis, as in "Under the hood, this baby has a 40MHz 68030!" :undocumented feature: n.
Said of a problem that, although {nontrivial}, can be solved simply by throwing sufficient resources at it.
Dennis Ritchie, the inventor of C, is considered a co-author of the system.
The turning point in UNIX's history came when it was reimplemented almost entirely in C during 1972--1974, making it the first source-portable OS.
UNIX subsequently underwent mutations and expansions at the hands of many different people, resulting in a uniquely flexible and developer-friendly environment.
In 1991, UNIX is the most widely used multiuser general-purpose operating system in the world.
Many people consider this the most important victory yet of hackerdom over industry opposition (but see {UNIX weenie} and {UNIX conspiracy} for an opposing point of view).
See {Version 7}, {BSD}, {USG UNIX}. :UNIX brain damage: n.
Something that has to be done to break a network program (typically a mailer) on a non-UNIX system so that it will interoperate with UNIX systems.
The hack may qualify as `UNIX brain damage' if the program conforms to published standards and the UNIX program in question does not.
Such things can make even a hardened {jock} weep. :UNIX conspiracy: [ITS] n.
This would be accomplished by disseminating an operating system that is apparently inexpensive and easily portable, but also relatively unreliable and insecure (so as to require continuing upgrades from AT&T).
A derogatory play on `UNIX wizard', common among hackers who use UNIX by necessity but would prefer alternatives.
This shell script tries to parse its arguments in 69 bletcherous ways.
It must have been written by a real UNIX weenie.
A derogatory term for anyone who engages in uncritical praise of UNIX.
Often appearing in the context "stupid UNIX weenie".
See also {weenie}. :unixism: n.
Compare {vaxocentrism}; see also {New Jersey}. :unleaded: adj.
Said of decaffeinated coffee, diet coke, and other imitation {programming fluid}s.
Do you want regular or unleaded?".
Appears to be widespread among programmers associated with the oil industry in Texas (and probably elsewhere).
Usage: silly, and probably unintelligable to the next generation of hackers. :unroll: v.
To repeat the body of a loop several times in succession. This optimization technique reduces the number of times the loop-termination test has to be executed.
But it only works if the number of iterations desired is a multiple of the number of repetitions of the body.
Something has to be done to take care of any leftover iterations --- such as {Duff's device}. :unswizzle: v.
See {swizzle}. :unwind the stack: vi.
In C this is done with `longjmp'/`setjmp', in LISP with `throw/catch'. See also {smash the stack}.
People can unwind the stack as well, by quickly dealing with a bunch of problems: "Oh heck, let's do lunch.
Just a second while I unwind my stack." :unwind-protect: [MIT: from the name of a LISP operator] n.
A task you must remember to perform before you leave a place or finish a project.
I have an unwind-protect to call my advisor." :up: adj.
The down escalator is up." Oppose {down}.
2. `bring up': vt. To create a working version and start it.
They brought up a down system." 3. `come up' vi.
To become ready for production use. :upload: /uhp'lohd/ v.
1. [techspeak] To transfer programs or data over a digital communications link from a smaller or peripheral `client' system to a larger or central `host' one.
Only those who are convinced that such patterns and algorithms capture the complete essence of the self view this prospect with gusto. :upthread: adv.
Earlier in the discussion (see {thread}), i.e., `above'.
As Joe pointed out upthread, ...
See also {followup}. :urchin: n.
See {munchkin}. :USENET: /yoos'net/ or /yooz'net/ [from `Users' Network'] n. A distributed {bboard} (bulletin board) system supported mainly by UNIX machines.
Originally implemented in 1979-1980 by Steve Bellovin, Jim Ellis, Tom Truscott, and Steve Daniel at Duke University, it has swiftly grown to become international in scope and is now probably the largest decentralized information utility in existence.
As of early 1991, it hosts well over 700 {newsgroup}s and an average of 16 megabytes (the equivalent of several thousand paper pages) of new technical articles, news, discussion, chatter, and {flamage} every day. :user: n.
Someone doing `real work' with the computer, using it as a means rather than an end.
Someone who pays to use a computer.
A programmer who will believe anything you tell him.
One who asks silly questions. [GLS observes: This is slightly unfair.
It is true that users ask questions (of necessity).
Sometimes they are thoughtful or deep. Very often they are annoying or downright stupid, apparently because the user failed to think for two seconds or look in the documentation before bothering the maintainer.] See {luser}. 3.
Someone who uses a program from the outside, however skillfully, without getting into the internals of the program.
One who reports bugs instead of just going ahead and fixing them. The general theory behind this term is that there are two classes of people who work with a program: there are implementors (hackers) and {luser}s.
A LISP hacker might be one who maintains LISP or one who uses LISP (but with the skill of a hacker).
A LISP user is one who uses LISP, whether skillfully or not.
Thus there is some overlap between the two terms; the subtle distinctions must be resolved by context. :user-friendly: adj.
Generally used by hackers in a critical tone, to describe systems that hold the user's hand so obsessively that they make it painful for the more experienced and knowledgeable to get any work done.
See {menuitis}, {drool-proof paper}, {Macintrash}, {user-obsequious}. :user-obsequious: adj.
Connotes a system so verbose, inflexible, and determinedly simple-minded that it is nearly unusable.
Design a system any fool can use and only a fool will want to use it.
See {WIMP environment}, {Macintrash}. :USG UNIX: /U-S-G yoo'niks/ n.
Refers to AT&T UNIX commercial versions after {Version 7}, especially System III and System V releases 1, 2, and 3.
So called because during most of the life-span of those versions AT&T's support crew was called the `UNIX Support Group'.
See {BSD}, {{UNIX}}. :UTSL: // [UNIX] n.
On-line acronym for `Use the Source, Luke' (a pun on Obi-Wan Kenobi's "Use the Force, Luke!" in `Star Wars') --- analogous to {RTFM} but more polite.
The store-and-forward network consisting of all the world's connected UNIX machines (and others running some clone of the UUCP (UNIX-to-UNIX CoPy) software).
Any machine reachable only via a {bang path} is on UUCPNET.
See {network address}. = V = ===== :vadding: /vad'ing/ [from VAD, a permutation of ADV (i.e., {ADVENT}), used to avoid a particular {admin}'s continual search-and-destroy sweeps for the game] n.
A leisure-time activity of certain hackers involving the covert exploration of the `secret' parts of large buildings --- basements, roofs, freight elevators, maintenance crawlways, steam tunnels, and the like.
A few go so far as to learn locksmithing in order to synthesize vadding keys.
The verb is `to vad' (compare {phreaking}; see also {hack}, sense 9).
Kids, don't try this at home! See also {hobbit} (sense 2). :vanilla: [from the default flavor of ice cream in the U.S.] adj. Ordinary {flavor}, standard.
When used of food, very often does not mean that the food is flavored with vanilla extract!
For example, `vanilla wonton soup' means ordinary wonton soup, as opposed to hot-and-sour wonton soup.
Applied to hardware and software, as in "Vanilla Version 7 UNIX can't run on a vanilla 11/34.
The prototype was Vannevar Bush's prediction of `electronic brains' the size of the Empire State Building with a Niagara-Falls-equivalent cooling system for their tubes and relays, made at a time when the semiconductor effect had already been demonstrated.
Products announced far in advance of any release (which may or may not actually take place). :var: /veir/ or /var/ n.
Compare {arg}, {param}. :VAX: /vaks/ n.
1. [from Virtual Address eXtension] The most successful minicomputer design in industry history, possibly excepting its immediate ancestor, the PDP-11.
Between its release in 1978 and its eclipse by {killer micro}s after about 1986, the VAX was probably the hacker's favorite machine of them all, esp. after the 1982 release of 4.2 BSD UNIX (see {BSD}).
Esp. noted for its large, assembler-programmer-friendly instruction set --- an asset that became a liability after the RISC revolution. 2.
A major brand of vacuum cleaner in Britain.
Cited here because its alleged sales pitch, "Nothing sucks like a VAX!" became a sort of battle-cry of RISC partisans.
DEC's Microvaxen, especially, are much slower than newer RISC-based workstations such as the SPARC.
Thus, if one knows one has a replacement coming, VAX removal can be cause for celebration. :VAXen: /vak'sn/ [from `oxen', perhaps influenced by `vixen'] n. (alt. `vaxen') The plural canonically used among hackers for the DEC VAX computers.
Our installation has four PDP-10s and twenty vaxen.
See {boxen}. :vaxherd: n. /vaks'herd/ [from `oxherd'] A VAX operator. :vaxism: /vak'sizm/ n.
A piece of code that exhibits {vaxocentrism} in critical areas.
Compare {PC-ism}, {unixism}. :vaxocentrism: /vak`soh-sen'trizm/ [analogy with `ethnocentrism'] n.
A notional disease said to afflict C programmers who persist in coding according to certain assumptions that are valid (esp. under UNIX) on {VAXen} but false elsewhere.
The assumption that dereferencing a null pointer is safe because it is all bits 0, and location 0 is readable and 0.
Problem: this may instead cause an illegal-address trap on non-VAXen, and even on VAXen under OSes other than BSD UNIX.
Usually this is an implicit assumption of sloppy code (forgetting to check the pointer before using it), rather than deliberate exploitation of a misfeature.) 2.
The assumption that characters are signed. 3.
The assumption that a pointer to any one type can freely be cast into a pointer to any other type.
A stronger form of this is the assumption that all pointers are the same size and format, which means you don't have to worry about getting the types correct in calls.
Problem: this fails on word-oriented machines or others with multiple pointer formats. 4.
The assumption that the parameters of a routine are stored in memory, contiguously, and in strictly ascending or descending order.
Problem: this fails on many RISC architectures. 5.
The assumption that a data type of any size may begin at any byte address in memory (for example, that you can freely construct and dereference a pointer to a word- or greater-sized object at an odd char address).
Problem: this fails on many (esp.
RISC) architectures better optimized for {HLL} execution speed, and can cause an illegal address fault or bus error. 7.
The assumption that memory address space is globally flat and that the array reference `foo[-1]' is necessarily valid.
Problem: this fails at 0, or other places on segment-addressed machines like Intel chips (yes, segmentation is universally considered a {brain-damaged} way to design machines (see {moby}), but that is a separate issue). 9.
The assumption that objects can be arbitrarily large with no special considerations.
Problem: this fails on segmented architectures and under non-virtual-addressing environments. 10.
The assumption that the stack can be as large as memory.
Problem: this fails on segmented architectures or almost anything else without virtual addressing and a paged stack. 11.
The assumption that bits and addressable units within an object are ordered in the same way and that this order is a constant of nature.
Problem: this fails on {big-endian} machines. 12.
The assumption that it is meaningful to compare pointers to different objects not located within the same array, or to objects of different types.
Problem: the former fails on segmented architectures, the latter on word-oriented machines or others with multiple pointer formats. 13.
The assumption that an `int' is 32 bits, or (nearly equivalently) the assumption that `sizeof(int) == sizeof(long)'.
Problem: this fails on PDP-11s, 286-based systems and even on 386 and 68000 systems under some compilers. 14.
The assumption that `argv[]' is writable.
Problem: this fails in many embedded-systems C environments and even under a few flavors of UNIX. Note that a programmer can validly be accused of vaxocentrism even if he or she has never seen a VAX.
Some of these assumptions (esp.
2--5) were valid on the PDP-11, the original C machine, and became endemic years before the VAX.
The terms `vaxocentricity' and `all-the-world's-a-VAX syndrome' have been used synonymously. :vdiff: /vee'dif/ v.,n.
The operation of finding differences between two files by {eyeball search}.
The term `optical diff' has also been reported, and is sometimes more specifically used for the act of superimposing two nearly identical printouts on one another and holding them up to a light to spot differences.
Though this method is poor for detecting omissions in the `rear' file, it can also be used with printouts of graphics, a claim few if any diff programs can make.
See {diff}. :veeblefester: /vee'b*l-fes`tr/ [from the "Born Loser" comix via Commodore; prob. originally from `Mad' Magazine's `Veeblefeetzer' parodies ca. 1960] n.
Any obnoxious person engaged in the (alleged) professions of marketing or management.
Compare {suit}, {marketroid}. :Venus flytrap: [after the insect-eating plant] n.
See {firewall machine}. :verbage: /ver'b*j/ n.
A deliberate misspelling and mispronunciation of {verbiage} that assimilates it to the word `garbage'.
More pejorative than `verbiage'. :verbiage: n.
When the context involves a software or hardware system, this refers to {{documentation}}.
This term borrows the connotations of mainstream `verbiage' to suggest that the documentation is of marginal utility and that the motives behind its production have little to do with the ostensible subject. :Version 7: alt.
The 1978 unsupported release of {{UNIX}} ancestral to all current commercial versions.
Before the release of the POSIX/SVID standards, V7's features were often treated as a UNIX portability baseline.
See {BSD}, {USG UNIX}, {{UNIX}}.
Some old-timers impatient with commercialization and kernel bloat still maintain that V7 was the Last True UNIX. :vgrep: /vee'grep/ v.,n.
The operation of finding patterns in a file optically rather than digitally (also called an `optical grep').
See {grep}; compare {vdiff}. :vi: /V-I/, *not* /vi:/ and *never* /siks/ [from `Visual Interface'] n.
A screen editor crufted together by Bill Joy for an early {BSD} release.
Became the de facto standard UNIX editor and a nearly undisputed hacker favorite outside of MIT until the rise of {EMACS} after about 1984.
See {holy wars}. :videotex: n. obs.
An electronic service offering people the privilege of paying to read the weather on their television screens instead of having somebody read it to them for free while they brush their teeth.
The idea bombed everywhere it wasn't government-subsidized, because by the time videotex was practical the installed base of personal computers could hook up to timesharing services and do the things for which videotex might have been worthwhile better and cheaper.
Videotex planners badly overestimated both the appeal of getting information from a computer and the cost of local intelligence at the user's end. Like the {gorilla arm} effect, this has been a cautionary tale to hackers ever since.
See also {vannevar}. :virgin: adj.
Unused; pristine; in a known initial state.
Common alternative to {logical}; often used to refer to the artificial objects created by a computer system to help the system control access to shared resources.
Simulated; performing the functions of something that isn't really there.
An imaginative child's doll may be a virtual playmate.
Oppose {real}. :virtual Friday: n.
The last day before an extended weekend, if that day is not a `real' Friday.
For example, the U.S. holiday Thanksgiving is always on a Thursday.
The next day is often also a holiday or taken as an extra day off, in which case Wednesday of that week is a virtual Friday (and Thursday is a virtual Saturday, as is Friday).
There are also `virtual Mondays' that are actually Tuesdays, after the three-day weekends associated with many national holidays in the U.S. :virtual reality: n.
Computer simulations that use 3-D graphics and devices such as the Dataglove to allow the user to interact with the simulation.
A form of network interaction incorporating aspects of role-playing games, interactive theater, improvisational comedy, and `true confessions' magazines.
The one iron law is that you may not write irreversible changes to a character without the consent of the person who `owns' it. Otherwise anything goes.
See {bamf}, {cyberspace}. :virus: [from the obvious analogy with biological viruses, via SF] n.
A cracker program that searches out other programs and `infects' them by embedding a copy of itself in them, so that they become {Trojan Horse}s.
When these programs are executed, the embedded virus is executed too, thus propagating the `infection'.
This normally happens invisibly to the user.
Unlike a {worm}, a virus cannot infect other computers without assistance.
It is propagated by vectors such as humans trading programs with their friends (see {SEX}).
The virus may do nothing but propagate itself and then allow the program to run normally.
Usually, however, after propagating silently for a while, it starts doing things like writing cute messages on the terminal or playing strange tricks with your display (some viruses include nice {display hack}s).
Accordingly, this sense of `virus' has passed not only into techspeak but into also popular usage (where it is often incorrectly used to denote a {worm} or even a {Trojan horse}).
Compare {back door}; see also {UNIX conspiracy}. :visionary: n.
See {SMOP}, {AI-complete}.) 2. [IBM] One who reads the outside literature.
At IBM, apparently, such a penchant is viewed with awe and wonder. :VMS: /V-M-S/ n.
DEC's proprietary operating system for its VAX minicomputer; one of the seven or so environments that loom largest in hacker folklore.
Many UNIX fans generously concede that VMS would probably be the hacker's favorite commercial OS if UNIX didn't exist; though true, this makes VMS fans furious.
I'm busy now; I'll voice you later." :voice-net: n.
Hackish way of referring to the telephone system, analogizing it to a digital network.
USENET {sig block}s not uncommonly include the sender's phone next to a "Voice:" or "Voice-Net:" header; common variants of this are "Voicenet" and "V-Net".
Compare {paper-net}, {snail-mail}. :voodoo programming: [from George Bush's "voodoo economics"] n. The use by guess or cookbook of an {obscure} or {hairy} system, feature, or algorithm that one does not truly understand.
The implication is that the technique may not work, and if it doesn't, one will never know why.
Almost synonymous with {black magic}, except that black magic typically isn't documented and *nobody* understands it.
Compare {magic}, {deep magic}, {heavy wizardry}, {rain dance}, {cargo cult programming}, {wave a dead chicken}. :VR: // [MUD] n.
On many micros this is Ctrl-Alt-Del; on Suns, L1-A; on some Macintoshes, it is <Cmd>-<Power switch>!
Compare {quadruple bucky}. :vulture capitalist: n.
A legendary early hack reported on a System/360 at RPI and elsewhere around 1978; this may have descended (if only by inspiration) from hack called RABBITS reported from 1969 on a Burroughs 55000 at the University of Washington Computer Center.
The program would make two copies of itself every time it was run, eventually crashing the system. 2.
By extension, any hack that includes infinite self-replication but is not a {virus} or {worm}.
See {fork bomb}, see also {cookie monster}. :WAITS:: /wayts/ n.
The mutant cousin of {{TOPS-10}} used on a handful of systems at {{SAIL}} up to 1990.
There was never an `official' expansion of WAITS (the name itself having been arrived at by a rather sideways process), but it was frequently glossed as `West-coast Alternative to ITS'.
Though WAITS was less visible than ITS, there was frequent exchange of people and ideas between the two communities, and innovations pioneered at WAITS exerted enormous indirect influence.
A mechanical agent, such as a gripper arm, controlled by a human limb.
When these were developed for the nuclear industry in the mid-1940s they were named after the invention described by Heinlein in the story, which he wrote in 1942.
Now known by the more generic term `telefactoring', this technology is of intense interest to NASA for tasks like space station maintenance.
At Harvard (particularly by Tom Cheatham and students), this is used instead of {foobar} as a metasyntactic variable and general nonsense word.
See {foo}, {bar}, {foobar}, {quux}. :walk: n.,vt. Traversal of a data structure, especially an array or linked-list data structure in {core}.
Compare {clobber}, {roach}, {smash the stack}. :walking drives: n.
An occasional failure mode of magnetic-disk drives back in the days when they were huge, clunky {washing machine}s.
There is a legend about a drive that walked over to the only door to the computer room and jammed it shut; the staff had to cut a hole in the wall in order to get at it!
Walking could also be induced by certain patterns of drive access (a fast seek across the whole width of the disk, followed by a slow seek in the other direction).
Some bands of old-time hackers figured out how to induce disk-accessing patterns that would do this to particular drive models and held disk-drive races. :wall: [WPI] interj.
An indication of confusion, usually spoken with a quizzical tone: "Wall??
A request for further explication.
To send a message to everyone currently logged in, esp. with the wall(8) utility. It is said that sense 1 came from the idiom `like talking to a blank wall'.
It was originally used in situations where, after you had carefully answered a question, the questioner stared at you blankly, clearly having understood nothing that was explained.
You would then throw out a "Hello, wall?" to elicit some sort of response from the questioner.
Later, confused questioners began voicing "Wall?" themselves. :wall follower: n.
A person or algorithm that compensates for lack of sophistication or native stupidity by efficiently following some simple procedure shown to have been effective in the past.
Used of an algorithm, this is not necessarily pejorative; it recalls `Harvey Wallbanger', the winning robot in an early AI contest (named, of course, after the cocktail).
Harvey successfully solved mazes by keeping a `finger' on one wall and running till it came out the other end.
See also {code grinder}, {droid}. :wall time: n. (also `wall clock time') 1. `Real world' time (what the clock on the wall shows), as opposed to the system clock's idea of time.
The background pattern used on graphical workstations (this is techspeak under the `Windows' graphical user interface to MS-DOS).
The file that contains the wallpaper information before it is actually printed on paper. (Even if you don't intend ever to produce a real paper copy of the file, it is still called a wallpaper file.) :wango: /wang'goh/ n.
Random bit-level {grovel}ling going on in a system during some unspecified operation.
Often used in combination with {mumble}.
For example: "You start with the `.o' file, run it through this postprocessor that does mumble-wango --- and it comes out a snazzy object-oriented executable." :wank: /wangk/ [Columbia University: prob. by mutation from Commonwealth slang v. `wank', to masturbate] n.,v.
Used much as {hack} is elsewhere, as a noun denoting a clever technique or person or the result of such cleverness.
May describe (negatively) the act of hacking for hacking's sake ("Quit wanking, let's go get supper!") or (more positively) a {wizard}.
Adj. `wanky' describes something particularly clever (a person, program, or algorithm).
Conversations can also get wanky when there are too many wanks involved.
This excess wankiness is signalled by an overload of the `wankometer' (compare {bogometer}).
When the wankometer overloads, the conversation's subject must be changed, or all non-wanks will leave.
The connotations of this term differ sharply depending on the age and exposure of the subject.
Used of a person who is in or might be entering {larval stage}, it is semi-approving; such wannabees can be annoying but most hackers remember that they, too, were once such creatures.
Compare {newbie}. Historical note: The wannabee phenomenon has a slightly different flavor now (1991) than it did ten or fifteen years ago.
Fortunately, to do this really well, one has to actually become a wizard.
Nevertheless, old-time hackers tend to share a poorly articulated disquiet about the change; among other things, it gives them mixed feelings about the effects of public compendia of lore like this one. :warlording: [from the USENET group alt.fan.warlord] v.
The act of excoriating a bloated, ugly, or derivative {sig block}. Common grounds for warlording include the presence of a signature rendered in a {BUAF}, over-used or cliched {sig quote}s, ugly {ASCII art}, or simply excessive size.
A small, {crock}y {feature} that sticks out of an otherwise {clean} design.
Something conspicuous for localized ugliness, especially a special-case exception to a general rule. For example, in some versions of `csh(1)', single quotes literalize every character inside them except `!'.
In ANSI C, the `??' syntax used obtaining ASCII characters in a foreign environment is a wart.
See also {miswart}. :washing machine: n.
Old-style 14-inch hard disks in floor-standing cabinets.
So called because of the size of the cabinet and the `top-loading' access to the media packs --- and, of course, they were always set on `spin cycle'.
The washing-machine idiom transcends language barriers; it is even used in Russian hacker jargon.
The thick channel cables connecting these were called `bit hoses' (see {hose}). :water MIPS: n. (see {MIPS}, sense 2) Large, water-cooled machines of either today's ECL-supercomputer flavor or yesterday's traditional {mainframe} type. :wave a dead chicken: v.
To perform a ritual in the direction of crashed software or hardware that one believes to be futile but is nevertheless necessary so that others are satisfied that an appropriate degree of effort has been expended.
I'll wave a dead chicken over the source code, but I really think we've run into an OS bug.
Compare {voodoo programming}, {rain dance}. :weasel: n. [Cambridge] A na"ive user, one who deliberately or accidentally does things that are stupid or ill-advised.
Roughly synonymous with {loser}. :wedged: [from a common description of recto-cranial inversion] adj.
To be stuck, incapable of proceeding without help.
This is different from having crashed.
If the system has crashed, then it has become totally non-functioning.
If the system is wedged, it is trying to do something but cannot make progress; it may be capable of doing a few things, but not be fully operational.
For example, a process may become wedged if it {deadlock}s with another (but not all instances of wedging are deadlocks).
See also {gronk}, {locked up}, {hosed}.
Often refers to humans suffering misconceptions.
He's totally wedged --- he's convinced that he can levitate through meditation.
3. [UNIX] Specifically used to describe the state of a TTY left in a losing state by abort of a screen-oriented program or one that has messed with the line discipline in some obscure way. :wedgie: [Fairchild] n.
Prob. related to {wedged}. :wedgitude: /wedj'i-t[y]ood/ n.
The quality or state of being {wedged}. :weeble: /weeb'l/ [Cambridge] interj.
Used to denote frustration, usually at amazing stupidity.
I stuck the disk in upside down." "Weeble....
Refers to development projects or algorithms that have no possible relevance or practical application.
Comes from `off in the weeds'.
Used in phrases like "lexical analysis for microcode is serious weeds....
At CDC/ETA before its demise, the phrase `go off in the weeds' was equivalent to IBM's {branch to Fishkill} and mainstream hackerdom's {jump off into never-never land}. :weenie: n.
1. [on BBSes] Any of a species of luser resembling a less amusing version of {BIFF} that infests many {BBS} systems.
The typical weenie is a teenage boy with poor social skills travelling under a grandiose {handle} derived from fantasy or heavy-metal rock lyrics.
Implies that the weenie has put a major investment of time, effort, and concentration into the area indicated; whether this is positive or negative depends on the hearer's judgment of how the speaker feels about that area.
The semicolon character, `;' (ASCII 0111011). :Weenix: /wee'niks/ [ITS] n.
A derogatory term for {{UNIX}}, derived from {UNIX weenie}.
According to one noted ex-ITSer, it is "the operating system preferred by Unix Weenies: typified by poor modularity, poor reliability, hard file deletion, no file version numbers, case sensitivity everywhere, and users who believe that these are all advantages".
Some ITS fans behave as though they believe UNIX stole a future that rightfully belonged to them. See {{ITS}}, sense 2. :well-behaved: adj.
1. [primarily {{MS-DOS}}] Said of software conforming to system interface guidelines and standards. Well-behaved software uses the operating system to do chores such as keyboard input, allocating memory and drawing graphics.
Software that does its job quietly and without counterintuitive effects.
Esp. said of software having an interface spec sufficiently simple and well-defined that it can be used as a {tool} by other software.
The human nervous system, as opposed to computer hardware or software.
Wetware has 7 plus or minus 2 temporary registers." 2.
Human beings (programmers, operators, administrators) attached to a computer system, as opposed to the system's hardware or software.
See {liveware}, {meatware}. :whack: v.
As a trivial example, it is relatively easy to change all `stderr' writes to `stdout' writes in a piece of C filter code which remains otherwise mysterious. :whacker: [University of Maryland: from {hacker}] n.
A person, similar to a {hacker}, who enjoys exploring the details of programmable systems and how to stretch their capabilities. Whereas a hacker tends to produce great hacks, a whacker only ends up whacking the system or program in question.
Whackers are often quite egotistical and eager to claim {wizard} status, regardless of the views of their peers.
A person who is good at programming quickly, though rather poorly and ineptly. :whales: n.
See {like kicking dead whales down the beach}. :whalesong: n.
The peculiar clicking and whooshing sounds made by a PEP modem such as the Telebit Trailblazer as it tries to synchronize with another PEP modem for their special high-speed mode.
This sound isn't anything like the normal two-tone handshake between conventional modems and is instantly recognizable to anyone who has heard it more than once.
It sounds, in fact, very much like whale songs.
My curiosity has finally overcome my guilt.
The PARC lexicon adds "Moral: don't hesitate to ask questions, even if they seem obvious." :wheel: [from slang `big wheel' for a powerful person] n.
A person who has an active {wheel bit}.
We need to find a wheel to unwedge the hung tape drives." (see {wedged}, sense 1.) :wheel bit: n.
The term was invented on the TENEX operating system, and carried over to TOPS-20, XEROX-IFS, and others.
The state of being in a privileged logon is sometimes called `wheel mode'.
This term entered the UNIX culture from TWENEX in the mid-1980s and has been gaining popularity there (esp. at university sites).
Adobe's fourth book in the PostScript series, describing the previously-secret format of Type 1 fonts; `Adobe Type 1 Font Format, version 1.1', (Addison-Wesley, 1990, ISBN 0-201-57044-0).
See also {Red Book}, {Green Book}, {Blue Book}. :whizzy: [Sun] adj. (alt. `wizzy') Describes a {cuspy} program; one that is feature-rich and well presented. :WIBNI: // [Bell Labs: Wouldn't It Be Nice If] n.
What most requirements documents and specifications consist entirely of. Compare {IWBNI}. :widget: n.
Used to stand for a real object in didactic examples (especially database tutorials).
Legend has it that the original widgets were holders for buggy whips.
If an algorithm is unstable, this is often the most unstable waveform, so it grows to dominate the solution.
See {menuitis}, {user-obsequious}. :win: [MIT] 1. vi.
A program wins if no unexpected conditions arise, or (especially) if it sufficiently {robust} to take exceptions in stride.
Success, or a specific instance thereof.
Emphatic forms: `moby win', `super win', `hyper-win' (often used interjectively as a reply).
For some reason `suitable win' is also common at MIT, usually in reference to a satisfactory solution to a problem.
Oppose {lose}; see also {big win}, which isn't quite just an intensification of `win'. :win big: vi.
I went shopping and won big; there was a 2-for-1 sale.
See {big win}. :win win: interj.
Expresses pleasure at a {win}. :Winchester:: n.
Informal generic term for `floating-head' magnetic-disk drives in which the read-write head planes over the disk surface on an air cushion.
Comments set on the same line as code, as opposed to {boxed comments}.
In C, for example: d = sqrt(x*x + y*y); /* distance from origin */ Generally these refer only to the action(s) taken on that line. :winkey: n. (alt. `winkey face') See {emoticon}. :winnage: /win'*j/ n.
The situation when a lossage is corrected, or when something is winning. :winner: 1. n.
An unexpectedly good situation, program, programmer, or person.
So it turned out I could use a {lexer} generator instead of hand-coding my own pattern recognizer.
What a win!" 2. `real winner': Often sarcastic, but also used as high praise (see also the note under {user}).
He's a real winner --- never reports a bug till he can duplicate it and send in an example." :winnitude: /win'*-t[y]ood/ n.
The quality of winning (as opposed to {winnage}, which is the result of winning).
Guess what? They tweaked the microcode and now the LISP interpreter runs twice as fast as it used to.
I'll probably get a half-hour's winnage on the next run of my program.
Perhaps curiously, the obvious antonym `lossitude' is rare. :wired: n.
See {hardwired}. :wirehead: /wi:r'hed/ n. [prob. from SF slang for an electrical-brain-stimulation addict] 1.
A hardware hacker, especially one who concentrates on communications hardware.
An expert in local-area networks.
A wirehead can be a network software wizard too, but will always have the ability to deal with network hardware, down to the smallest component.
Wireheads are known for their ability to lash up an Ethernet terminator from spare resistors, for example. :wirewater: n.
This melds the mainstream slang adjective `wired' (stimulated, up, hyperactive) with `firewater'. :wish list: n.
A list of desired features or bug fixes that probably won't get done for a long time, usually because the person responsible for the code is too busy or can't think of a clean way to do it.
OK, I'll add automatic filename completion to the wish list for the new interface.
Compare {tick-list features}. :within delta of: adj.
See {delta}. :within epsilon of: adj.
A person who knows how a complex piece of software or hardware works (that is, who {grok}s it); esp. someone who can find and fix bugs quickly in an emergency.
Someone is a {hacker} if he or she has general hacking ability, but is a wizard with respect to something only if he or she has specific detailed knowledge of that thing.
A good hacker could become a wizard for something given the time to study it.
A person who is permitted to do things forbidden to ordinary people; one who has {wheel} privileges on a system.
A UNIX expert, esp. a UNIX systems programmer.
This usage is well enough established that `UNIX Wizard' is a recognized job title at some corporations and to most headhunters.
See {guru}, {lord high fixer}.
See also {deep magic}, {heavy wizardry}, {incantation}, {magic}, {mutter}, {rain dance}, {voodoo programming}, {wave a dead chicken}. :Wizard Book: n.
Hal Abelson and Jerry Sussman's `Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs' (MIT Press, 1984; ISBN 0-262-01077-1, an excellent computer science text used in introductory courses at MIT.
So called because of the wizard on the jacket.
One of the {bible}s of the LISP/Scheme world.
Also, less commonly, known as the {Purple Book}. :wizard mode: [from {rogue}] n.
A special access mode of a program or system, usually passworded, that permits some users godlike privileges.
Generally not used for operating systems themselves (`root mode' or `wheel mode' would be used instead). :wizardly: adj.
A wizardly {feature} is one that only a wizard could understand or use properly. :womb box: n.
1. [TMRC] Storage space for equipment.
2. [proposed] A variety of hard-shell equipment case with heavy interior padding and/or shaped carrier cutouts in a foam-rubber matrix; mundanely called a `flight case'.
Used for delicate test equipment, electronics, and musical instruments. :WOMBAT: [Waste Of Money, Brains, And Time] adj.
Applied to problems which are both profoundly {uninteresting} in themselves and unlikely to benefit anyone interesting even if solved.
Often used in fanciful constructions such as `wrestling with a wombat'.
See also {crawling horror}, {SMOP}.
Also note the rather different usage as a metasyntactic variable in {{Commonwealth Hackish}}. :wonky: /wong'kee/ [from Australian slang] adj.
Yet another approximate synonym for {broken}.
Specifically connotes a malfunction that produces behavior seen as crazy, humorous, or amusingly perverse.
That was the day the printer's font logic went wonky and everybody's listings came out in Tengwar.
See {funky}, {demented}, {bozotic}. :woofer: [University of Waterloo] n.
Some varieties of wide paper for printers have a perforation 8.5 inches from the left margin that allows the excess on the right-hand side to be torn off when the print format is 80 columns or less wide.
The right-hand excess may be called `woofer'.
This term (like {tweeter}, which see) has been in use at Waterloo since 1972, but is elsewhere unknown. In audio jargon, the word refers to the bass speaker(s) on a hi-fi. :workaround: n.
A temporary {kluge} inserted in a system under development or test in order to avoid the effects of a {bug} or {misfeature} so that work can continue.
Theoretically, workarounds are always replaced by {fix}es; in practice, customers often find themselves living with workarounds in the first couple of releases.
The code died on NUL characters in the input, so I fixed it to interpret them as spaces.
That's not a fix, that's a workaround!" :working as designed: [IBM] adj.
In conformance to a wrong or inappropriate specification; useful, but misdesigned. 2.
Frequently used as a sardonic comment on a program's utility. 3.
Unfortunately also used as a bogus reason for not accepting a criticism or suggestion.
At {IBM}, this sense is used in official documents!
See {BAD}. :worm: [from `tapeworm' in John Brunner's novel `The Shockwave Rider', via XEROX PARC] n.
A program that propagates itself over a network, reproducing itself as it goes.
Nowadays the term has negative connotations, as it is assumed that only {cracker}s write worms.
Perhaps the best-known example was Robert T.
Morris's `Internet Worm' of 1988, a `benign' one that got out of control and hogged hundreds of Suns and VAXen across the U.S.
See also {cracker}, {RTM}, {Trojan horse}, {ice}, and {Great Worm, the}. :wound around the axle: adj.
To change {phase} gradually and continuously by maintaining a steady wake-sleep cycle somewhat longer than 24 hours, e.g., living six long (28-hour) days in a week (or, equivalently, sleeping at the rate of 10 microhertz).
See also {phase-wrapping}. :write-only code: [a play on `read-only memory'] n.
Code so arcane, complex, or ill-structured that it cannot be modified or even comprehended by anyone but its author, and possibly not even by him/her.
A {Bad Thing}. :write-only language: n.
A language with syntax (or semantics) sufficiently dense and bizarre that any routine of significant size is {write-only code}.
A sobriquet applied occasionally to C and often to APL, though {INTERCAL} and {TECO} certainly deserve it more. :write-only memory: n.
The obvious antonym to `read-only memory'.
This inclusion came to the attention of Signetics {management} only when regular customers started calling and asking for pricing information.
Signetics published a corrected edition of the data book and requested the return of the `erroneous' ones.
Later, around 1974, Signetics bought a double-page spread in `Electronics' magazine's April issue and used the spec as an April Fools' Day joke.
The 25120 required a 6.3 VAC VFF supply, a +10V VCC, and VDD of 0V, +/- 2%. :Wrong Thing: n.
A design, action, or decision that is clearly incorrect or inappropriate.
Often capitalized; always emphasized in speech as if capitalized.
The opposite of the {Right Thing}; more generally, anything that is not the Right Thing.
In cases where `the good is the enemy of the best', the merely good --- although good --- is nevertheless the Wrong Thing.
In C, the default is for module-level declarations to be visible everywhere, rather than just within the module.
This is clearly the Wrong Thing." :wugga wugga: /wuh'g* wuh'g*/ n.
Imaginary sound that a computer program makes as it labors with a tedious or difficult task. Compare {cruncha cruncha cruncha}, {grind} (sense 4). :WYSIAYG: /wiz'ee-ayg/ adj.
Describes a user interface under which "What You See Is *All* You Get"; an unhappy variant of {WYSIWYG}.
Visual, `point-and-shoot'-style interfaces tend to have easy initial learning curves, but also to lack depth; they often frustrate advanced users who would be better served by a command-style interface.
When this happens, the frustrated user has a WYSIAYG problem.
This term is most often used of editors, word processors, and document formatting programs.
WYSIWYG `desktop publishing' programs, for example, are a clear win for creating small documents with lots of fonts and graphics in them, especially things like newsletters and presentation slides.
Describes a user interface under which "What You See Is What You Get", as opposed to one that uses more-or-less obscure commands which do not result in immediate visual feedback.
All these can be mildly derogatory, as they are often used to refer to dumbed-down {user-friendly} interfaces targeted at non-programmers; a hacker has no fear of obscure commands (compare {WYSIAYG}).
On the other hand, {EMACS} was one of the very first WYSIWYG editors, replacing (actually, at first overlaying) the extremely obscure, command-based {TECO}.
See also {WIMP environment}. [Oddly enough, WYSIWYG has already made it into the OED, in lower case yet. --- ESR] = X = ===== :X: /X/ n.
Used in various speech and writing contexts (also in lowercase) in roughly its algebraic sense of `unknown within a set defined by context' (compare {N}).
Thus, the abbreviation 680x0 stands for 68000, 68010, 68020, 68030, or 68040, and 80x86 stands for 80186, 80286 80386 or 80486 (note that a UNIX hacker might write these as 680[0-4]0 and 80[1-4]86 or 680?0 and 80?86 respectively; see {glob}).
2. [after the name of an earlier window system called `W'] An over-sized, over-featured, over-engineered and incredibly over-complicated window system developed at MIT and widely used on UNIX systems. :XEROX PARC: The famed Palo Alto Research Center.
For more than a decade, from the early 1970s into the mid-1980s, PARC yielded an astonishing volume of groundbreaking hardware and software innovations.
The modern mice, windows, and icons style of software interface was invented there.
So was the laser printer, and the local-area network; and PARC's series of D machines anticipated the poweful personal computers of the 1980s by a decade.
Sadly, these prophets were without honor in their own company; so much so that it became a standard joke to describe PARC as a place characterized by developing brilliant ideas for everyone else. :XOFF: /X'of/ n.
Syn. {control-S}. :XON: /X'on/ n.
Syn. {control-Q}. :xor: /X'or/, /kzor/ conj.
Exclusive or. `A xor B' means `A or B, but not both'.
I want to get cherry pie xor a banana split.
This derives from the technical use of the term as a function on truth-values that is true if exactly one of its two arguments is true. :xref: /X'ref/ vt., n.
Hackish standard abbreviation for `cross-reference'. :XXX: /X-X-X/ n.
A marker that attention is needed. Commonly used in program comments to indicate areas that are kluged up or need to be.
Some hackers liken `XXX' to the notional heavy-porn movie rating. :xyzzy: /X-Y-Z-Z-Y/, /X-Y-ziz'ee/, /ziz'ee/, or /ik-ziz'ee/ [from the ADVENT game] adj.
The {canonical} `magic word'. This comes from {ADVENT}, in which the idea is to explore an underground cave with many rooms and to collect the treasures you find there.
If you type `xyzzy' at the appropriate time, you can move instantly between two otherwise distant points.
If, therefore, you encounter some bit of {magic}, you might remark on this quite succinctly by saying simply "Xyzzy!
Ordinarily you can't look at someone else's screen if he has protected it, but if you type quadruple-bucky-clear the system will let you do it anyway.
In more recent 32-bit versions, by the way, AOS/VS responds "Twice as much happens".
See also {plugh}. = Y = ===== :YA-: [Yet Another] abbrev.
In hackish acronyms this almost invariably expands to {Yet Another}, following the precedent set by UNIX `yacc(1)' (Yet Another Compiler-Compiler).
See {YABA}. :YABA: /ya'b*/ [Cambridge] n.
Yet Another Bloody Acronym. Whenever some program is being named, someone invariably suggests that it be given a name that is acronymic.
The response from those with a trace of originality is to remark ironically that the proposed name would then be `YABA-compatible'.
Also used in response to questions like "What is WYSIWYG?
See also {TLA}. :YAUN: /yawn/ [Acronym for `Yet Another UNIX Nerd'] n.
Reported from the San Diego Computer Society (predominantly a microcomputer users' group) as a good-natured punning insult aimed at UNIX zealots. :Yellow Book: [proposed] n.
The print version of this Jargon File; `The New Hacker's Dictionary', MIT Press, 1991 (ISBN 0-262-68069-6).
Includes all the material in the 2.9.6 version of the File, plus a Foreword by Guy L.
Steele Jr. and a Preface by Eric S.
Most importantly, the book version is nicely typeset and includes almost all of the infamous Crunchly cartoons by the Great Quux, each attached to an appropriate entry. :yellow wire: [IBM] n.
Repair wires used when connectors (especially ribbon connectors) got broken due to some schlemiel pinching them, or to reconnect cut traces after the FE mistakenly cut one.
Compare {blue wire}, {purple wire}, {red wire}. :Yet Another: adj. [From UNIX's `yacc(1)', `Yet Another Compiler-Compiler', a LALR parser generator] 1.
Of your own work: A humorous allusion often used in titles to acknowledge that the topic is not original, though the content is.
As in `Yet Another AI Group' or `Yet Another Simulated Annealing Algorithm'.
Of others' work: Describes something of which there are already far too many.
See also {YA-}, {YABA}, {YAUN}. :You are not expected to understand this: cav. [UNIX] The canonical comment describing something {magic} or too complicated to bother explaining properly.
From an infamous comment in the context-switching code of the V6 UNIX kernel. :You know you've been hacking too long when...: The set-up line for a genre of one-liners told by hackers about themselves.
Even hackers may have trouble spotting the ringer.
The ringer was balancing one's checkbook in octal, which I made up out of whole cloth.
A ritual warning often found in UNIX freeware distributions.
Translates roughly as "Hey, I tried to write this portably, but who *knows* what'll happen on your system?
A qualifier more generally attached to advice.
I find that sending flowers works well, but your mileage may vary." :Yow!: /yow/ [from "Zippy the Pinhead" comix] interj.
A favored hacker expression of humorous surprise or emphasis.
Check out what happens when you twiddle the foo option on this display hack!" Compare {gurfle}. :yoyo mode: n.
Tourists staying at one of Atlanta's most respectable hotels were subsequently treated to the sight of 200 of the country's top computer scientists testing yo-yo algorithms in the lobby. :Yu-Shiang Whole Fish: /yoo-shyang hohl fish/ n. obs.
The character gamma (extended SAIL ASCII 0001001), which with a loop in its tail looks like a little fish swimming down the page.
The term is actually the name of a Chinese dish in which a fish is cooked whole (not {parse}d) and covered with Yu-Shiang (or Yu-Hsiang) sauce.
Usage: primarily by people on the MIT LISP Machine, which could display this character on the screen.
Tends to elicit incredulity from people who hear about it second-hand. = Z = ===== :zap: 1. n.
2. vt. To make food spicy.
3. vt. To make someone `suffer' by making his food spicy. (Most hackers love spicy food.
5. vt. To erase or reset.
To {fry} a chip with static electricity. "Uh oh --- I think that lightning strike may have zapped the disk controller." :zapped: adj.
See also {{oriental food}}, {laser chicken}.
See {zap}, senses 1 and 2. :zen: vt. To figure out something by meditation or by a sudden flash of enlightenment.
Originally applied to bugs, but occasionally applied to problems of life in general.
How'd you figure out the buffer allocation problem?
Contrast {grok}, which connotes a time-extended version of zenning a system. Compare {hack mode}.
See also {guru}. :zero: vt. 1.
Usually said of small pieces of data, such as bits or words (esp. in the construction `zero out').
To erase; to discard all data from.
Said of disks and directories, where `zeroing' need not involve actually writing zeroes throughout the area being zeroed.
One may speak of something being `logically zeroed' rather than being `physically zeroed'.
Syn. {content-free}. :zeroth: /zee'rohth/ adj.
Among software designers, comes from C's and LISP's 0-based indexing of arrays.
In recent years this trait has also been observed among many pure mathematicians (who have an independent tradition of numbering from 0).
Zero-based numbering tends to reduce {fencepost error}s, though it cannot eliminate them entirely. :zigamorph: /zig'*-morf/ n.
Hex FF (11111111) when used as a delimiter or {fence} character.
Usage: primarily at IBM shops. :zip: [primarily MS-DOS] vt. To create a compressed archive from a group of files using PKWare's PKZIP or a compatible archiver.
Its use is spreading now that portable implementations of the algorithm have been written.
Commonly used as follows: "I'll zip it up and send it to you.
See {arc}, {tar and feather}. :zipperhead: [IBM] n.
A person with a closed mind. :zombie: [UNIX] n.
A process that has died but has not yet relinquished its process table slot (because the parent process hasn't executed a `wait(2)' for it yet).
These can be seen in `ps(1)' listings occasionally.
Compare {orphan}. :zorch: /zorch/ 1. [TMRC] v.
To attack with an inverse heat sink. 2. [TMRC] v.
To travel, with v approaching c [that is, with velocity approaching lightspeed --- ESR].
To propel something very quickly.
The new comm software is very fast; it really zorches files through the network.
The intangible and fuzzy currency in which favors are measured.
I'd rather not ask him for that just yet; I think I've used up my quota of zorch with him for the week.
I think I'll {punt} that change for now; I've been up for 30 hours and I've run out of zorch." :Zork: /zork/ n.
The second of the great early experiments in computer fantasy gaming; see {ADVENT}.
Originally written on MIT-DM during the late 1970s, later distributed with BSD UNIX (as a patched, sourceless RT-11 Fortran binary; see {retrocomputing}) and commercialized as `The Zork Trilogy' by Infocom. :zorkmid: /zork'mid/ n.
The canonical unit of currency in hacker-written games.
This originated in {zork} but has spread to {nethack} and is referred to in several other games. = [^A-Za-z] (see {regexp}) = ============================ :'Snooze: /snooz/ [FidoNet] n.
Fidonews, the weekly official on-line newsletter of FidoNet.
Sometimes used ironically as a form of protest against the recent spate of software and algorithm patents and `look and feel' lawsuits.
See also {UN*X}. :-oid: [from `android'] suff.
This suffix is used as in mainstream English to indicate a poor imitation, a counterfeit, or some otherwise slightly bogus resemblance.
Hackers will happily use it with all sorts of non-Greco/Latin stem words that wouldn't keep company with it in mainstream English.
For example, "He's a nerdoid" means that he superficially resembles a nerd but can't make the grade; a `modemoid' might be a 300-baud box (Real Modems run at 9600); a `computeroid' might be any {bitty box}.
The word `keyboid' could be used to describe a {chiclet keyboard}, but would have to be written; spoken, it would confuse the listener as to the speaker's city of origin.
There is a more specific sense of `oid' as an indicator for `resembling an android' which in the past has been confined to science-fiction fans and hackers.
It too has recently (in 1991) started to go mainstream (most notably in the term `trendoid' for victims of terminal hipness).
Commonly used to form jargon terms for classes of software.
For examples, see {careware}, {crippleware}, {crudware}, {freeware}, {fritterware}, {guiltware}, {liveware}, {meatware}, {payware}, {psychedelicware}, {shareware}, {shelfware}, {vaporware}, {wetware}. :/dev/null: /dev-nuhl/ [from the UNIX null device, used as a data sink] n.
A notional `black hole' in any information space being discussed, used, or referred to.
A controversial posting, for example, might end "Kudos to rasputin@kremlin.org, flames to /dev/null".
See {bit bucket}. :0: Numeric zero, as opposed to `O' (the 15th letter of the English alphabet).
In their unmodified forms they look a lot alike, and various kluges invented to make them visually distinct have compounded the confusion.
If your zero is slashed but letter-O is not, you're probably looking at an old-style ASCII graphic set descended from the default typewheel on the venerable ASR-33 Teletype (Scandinavians, for whom slashed-O is a letter, curse this arrangement).
Some Burroughs/Unisys equipment displays a zero with a *reversed* slash.
And yet another convention common on early line printers left zero unornamented but added a tail or hook to the letter-O so that it resembled an inverted Q or cursive capital letter-O.
Are we sufficiently confused yet? :1TBS: // n.
The "One True Brace Style"; see {indent style}. :120 reset: /wuhn-twen'tee ree'set/ [from 120 volts, U.S. wall voltage] n.
To cycle power on a machine in order to reset or unjam it.
Compare {Big Red Switch}, {power cycle}. :2: infix.
One of the most reliable opportunities for hackers to meet face to face with people who might otherwise be represented by mere phosphor dots on their screens.
Compare {boink}. :@Begin: // See {\begin}. :\begin: // [from the LaTeX command] With \end, used humorously in writing to indicate a context or to remark on the surrounded text.
For example: \begin{flame} Predicate logic is the only good programming language.
Anyone who would use anything else is an idiot.
Also, all computers should be tredecimal instead of binary. \end{flame} The Scribe users at CMU and elsewhere used to use @Begin/@End in an identical way (LaTeX was built to resemble Scribe).
In fact, {hack} has only one meaning, an extremely subtle and profound one which defies articulation.
Which connotation is implied by a given use of the word depends in similarly profound ways on the context.
Similar remarks apply to a couple of other hacker words, most notably {random}." Hacking might be characterized as `an appropriate application of ingenuity'.
Of course, some hacks have both natures; see the lexicon entries for {pseudo} and {kgbvax}.
But here are some examples of pure practical jokes that illustrate the hacking spirit: In 1961, students from Caltech (California Institute of Technology, in Pasadena) hacked the Rose Bowl football game.
One student posed as a reporter and `interviewed' the director of the University of Washington card stunts (such stunts involve people in the stands who hold up colored cards to make pictures).
They then had a printer run off 2300 copies of the blank.
The next day they picked the lock again and stole the master plans for the stunts --- large sheets of graph paper colored in with the stunt pictures.
Using these as a guide, they made new instructions for three of the stunts on the duplicated blanks.
Another stunt showed the word `HUSKIES', the Washington nickname, but spelled it backwards.
The Washington student body president remarked: "No hard feelings, but at the time it was unbelievable.
The letters `MIT' appeared all over the ball.
The device consisted of a weather balloon, a hydraulic ram powered by Freon gas to lift it out of the ground, and a vacuum-cleaner motor to inflate it.
They made eight separate expeditions to Harvard Stadium between 1 and 5 A.M., locating an unused 110-volt circuit in the stadium and running buried wires from the stadium circuit to the 40-yard line, where they buried the balloon device.
The use of manual control allowed the prank to be timed so as not to disrupt the game (it was set off between plays, so the outcome of the game would not be unduly affected).
Gray of MIT said: "There is absolutely no truth to the rumor that I had anything to do with it, but I wish there were." The hacks above are verifiable history; they can be proved to have happened.
Many other classic-hack stories from MIT and elsewhere, though retold as history, have the characteristics of what Jan Brunvand has called `urban folklore' (see {FOAF}).
Perhaps the best known of these is the legend of the infamous trolley-car hack, an alleged incident in which engineering students are said to have welded a trolley car to its tracks with thermite.
Through a simple programming strategy, it was possible for a user program to trick the system into running a portion of the program in `master mode' (supervisor state), in which memory protection does not apply.
The program could then poke a large value into its `privilege level' byte (normally write-protected) and could then proceed to bypass all levels of security within the file-management system, patch the system monitor, and do numerous other interesting things.
In short, the barn door was wide open. Motorola quite properly reported this problem to Xerox via an official `level 1 SIDR' (a bug report with an intended urgency of `needs to be fixed yesterday').
The Motorola guys pestered their Xerox field-support rep, to no avail.
These patches were then incorporated into a pair of programs called `Robin Hood' and `Friar Tuck'.
When Robin Hood was X'ed, the following sequence of events took place: !X id1 id1: Friar Tuck...
Pray save me! id1: Off (aborted) id2: Fear not, friend Robin!
He had to stay in the hospital quite a while, and got restless because he couldn't {hack}.
Computer terminals weren't on the list, so the guard wouldn't let it in. Rules are rules, you know. (This guard was clearly a {droid}.) Fair enough, said the two friends, and they left again.
They said: "This is a TV typewriter!
The guard was skeptical, so they plugged it in and demonstrated it.
You just type on the keyboard and what you type shows up on the TV screen.
Now the guard didn't stop to think about how utterly useless a typewriter would be that didn't produce any paper copies of what you typed; but this was clearly a TV typewriter, no doubt about it.
So he checked his list: "A TV is all right, a typewriter is all right ... okay, take it on in!" [Historical note: Many years ago, `Popular Electronics' published solder-it-yourself plans for a TV typewriter.
Despite the essential uselessness of the device, it was an enormously popular project. Steve Ciarcia, the man behind `Byte' magazine's "Circuit Cellar" feature, resurrected this ghost in one of his books of the early 1980s.
It was obviously a homebrew job, added by one of the lab's hardware hackers (no one knows who). You don't touch an unknown switch on a computer without knowing what it does, because you might crash the computer.
The switch was labeled in a most unhelpful way.
It had two positions, and scrawled in pencil on the metal switch body were the words `magic' and `more magic'.
The switch was in the `more magic' position. I called another hacker over to look at it.
He had never seen the switch before either.
Closer examination revealed that the switch had only one wire running to it!
The other end of the wire did disappear into the maze of wires inside the computer, but it's a basic fact of electricity that a switch can't do anything unless there are two wires connected to it.
The computer instantly crashed. Imagine our utter astonishment.
We wrote it off as coincidence, but nevertheless restored the switch to the `more magic' position before reviving the computer. A year later, I told this story to yet another hacker, David Moon as I recall.
He clearly doubted my sanity, or suspected me of a supernatural belief in the power of this switch, or perhaps thought I was fooling him with a bogus saga.
To prove it to him, I showed him the very switch, still glued to the cabinet frame with only one wire connected to it, still in the `more magic' position.
We scrutinized the switch and its lone connection, and found that the other end of the wire, though connected to the computer wiring, was connected to a ground pin.
That clearly made the switch doubly useless: not only was it electrically nonoperative, but it was connected to a place that couldn't affect anything anyway.
So we flipped the switch. The computer promptly crashed. This time we ran for Richard Greenblatt, a long-time MIT hacker, who was close at hand.
He had never noticed the switch before, either.
He inspected it, concluded it was useless, got some diagonal cutters and {dike}d it out.
We then revived the computer and it has run fine ever since. We still don't know how the switch crashed the machine.
There is a theory that some circuit near the ground pin was marginal, and flipping the switch changed the electrical capacitance enough to upset the circuit as millionth-of-a-second pulses went through it.
But we'll never know for sure; all we can really say is that the switch was {magic}. I still have that switch in my basement.
Maybe I'm silly, but I usually keep it set on `more magic'. :A Selection of AI Koans: ========================= These are some of the funniest examples of a genre of jokes told at the MIT AI Lab about various noted hackers.
The original koans were composed by Danny Hillis.
It spied on the other guy's output by examining the insides of the monitor system.
The output spy program was called OS.
There was another program that would automatically notify you if anyone started to spy on your output.
It worked in exactly the same way, by looking at the insides of the operating system to see if anyone else was looking at the insides that had to do with your output.
This `counterspy' program was called JEDGAR (a six-letterism pronounced as two syllables: /jed'gr/), in honor of the former head of the FBI. But there's more.
JEDGAR would ask the user for `license to kill'.
If the user said yes, then JEDGAR would actually {gun} the job of the {luser} who was spying.
Unfortunately, people found that this made life too violent, especially when tourists learned about it.
One of the systems hackers solved the problem by replacing JEDGAR with another program that only pretended to do its job.
It took a long time to do this, because every copy of JEDGAR had to be patched.
In bouncing around the net it apparently got modified into the `free verse' form now popular.
In other words, it got hacked on the net.
That seems appropriate, somehow."] :Appendix B: A Portrait of J.
Random Hacker ******************************************* This profile reflects detailed comments on an earlier `trial balloon' version from about a hundred USENET respondents.
Surprisingly for a sedentary profession, more hackers run to skinny than fat; both extremes are more common than elsewhere.
Tans are rare. :Dress: ======= Casual, vaguely post-hippie; T-shirts, jeans, running shoes, Birkenstocks (or bare feet).
Long hair, beards, and moustaches are common.
Hackers often have a reading range that astonishes liberal arts people but tend not to talk about it as much.
Other interests that seem to correlate less strongly but positively with hackerdom include linguistics and theater teching. :Physical Activity and Sports: ============================== Many (perhaps even most) hackers don't follow or do sports at all and are determinedly anti-physical.
Hacker sports are almost always primarily self-competitive ones involving concentration, stamina, and micromotor skills: martial arts, bicycling, auto racing, kite flying, hiking, rock climbing, aviation, target-shooting, sailing, caving, juggling, skiing, skating (ice and roller).
Hackers' delight in techno-toys also tends to draw them towards hobbies with nifty complicated equipment that they can tinker with. :Education: =========== Nearly all hackers past their teens are either college-degreed or self-educated to an equivalent level.
The self-taught hacker is often considered (at least by other hackers) to be better-motivated, and may be more respected, than his school-shaped counterpart.
Academic areas from which people often gravitate into hackerdom include (besides the obvious computer science and electrical engineering) physics, mathematics, linguistics, and philosophy. :Things Hackers Detest and Avoid: ================================= IBM mainframes.
Smurfs, Ewoks, and other forms of offensive cuteness. Bureaucracies.
Television (except for cartoons, movies, the old "Star Trek", and the new "Simpsons").
Character-based menu interfaces. :Food: ====== Ethnic.
Szechuan, Hunan, and Mandarin (hackers consider Cantonese vaguely d'eclass'e).
Hackers prefer the exotic; for example, the Japanese-food fans among them will eat with gusto such delicacies as fugu (poisonous pufferfish) and whale. Thai food has experienced flurries of popularity.
Where available, high-quality Jewish delicatessen food is much esteemed.
This may be generational; anecdotal evidence suggests that the stereotype was more on the mark 10--15 years ago. :Politics: ========== Vaguely left of center, except for the strong libertarian contingent which rejects conventional left-right politics entirely.
Very commonly, three or more of these are combined in the same person.
Conventional faith-holding Christianity is rare though not unknown. Even hackers who identify with a religious affiliation tend to be relaxed about it, hostile to organized religion in general and all forms of religious bigotry in particular.
Limited use of non-addictive psychedelic drugs, such as cannabis, LSD, psilocybin, and nitrous oxide, etc., used to be relatively common and is still regarded with more tolerance than in the mainstream culture.
Use of `downers' and opiates, on the other hand, appears to be particularly rare; hackers seem in general to dislike drugs that `dumb them down'.
On the third hand, many hackers regularly wire up on caffeine and/or sugar for all-night hacking runs. :Communication Style: ===================== See the discussions of speech and writing styles near the beginning of this File.
Though hackers often have poor person-to-person communication skills, they are as a rule extremely sensitive to nuances of language and very precise in their use of it.
It includes a relatively large gay and bi contingent.
Hackers are somewhat more likely to live in polygynous or polyandrous relationships, practice open marriage, or live in communes or group houses.
In this, as in general appearance, hackerdom semi-consciously maintains `counterculture' values. :Personality Characteristics: ============================= The most obvious common `personality' characteristics of hackers are high intelligence, consuming curiosity, and facility with intellectual abstractions.
Also, most hackers are `neophiles', stimulated by and appreciative of novelty (especially intellectual novelty).
Most are also relatively individualistic and anti-conformist. Although high general intelligence is common among hackers, it is not the sine qua non one might expect.
Another trait is probably even more important: the ability to mentally absorb, retain, and reference large amounts of `meaningless' detail, trusting to later experience to give it context and meaning.
In the same way that children delight in making model trains go forward and back by moving a switch, hackers love making complicated things like computers do nifty stuff for them.
But it has to be *their* nifty stuff.
They don't like tedium, nondeterminism, or most of the fussy, boring, ill-defined little tasks that go with maintaining a normal existence. Accordingly, they tend to be careful and orderly in their intellectual lives and chaotic elsewhere.
Their code will be beautiful, even if their desks are buried in 3 feet of crap. Hackers are generally only very weakly motivated by conventional rewards such as social approval or money.
ENT[JP] types are also concentrated among hackers but are in a minority. :Weaknesses of the Hacker Personality: ====================================== Hackers have relatively little ability to identify emotionally with other people.
This may be because hackers generally aren't much like `other people'.
This bias often contributes to weakness in communication skills.
Old-time {{ITS}} partisans look down on the ever-growing hordes of {{UNIX}} hackers; UNIX aficionados despise {VMS} and {{MS-DOS}}; and hackers who are used to conventional command-line user interfaces loathe mouse-and-menu based systems such as the Macintosh.
At worst, they can produce the classic {computer geek}: withdrawn, relationally incompetent, sexually frustrated, and desperately unhappy when not submerged in his or her craft.
Fortunately, this extreme is far less common than mainstream folklore paints it --- but almost all hackers will recognize something of themselves in the unflattering paragraphs above. Hackers are often monumentally disorganized and sloppy about dealing with the physical world.
Bills don't get paid on time, clutter piles up to incredible heights in homes and offices, and minor maintenance tasks get deferred indefinitely. The sort of person who uses phrases like `incompletely socialized' usually thinks hackers are.
Hackers regard such people with contempt when they notice them at all. :Miscellaneous: =============== Hackers are more likely to have cats than dogs (in fact, it is widely grokked that cats have the hacker nature).
Many drive incredibly decrepit heaps and forget to wash them; richer ones drive spiffy Porsches and RX-7s and then forget to have them washed.
Music, mathematical logic, programming, speculations on the nature of intelligence, biology, and Zen are woven into a brilliant tapestry themed on the concept of encoded self-reference.
First published in three volumes, but there is now a one-volume trade paperback, carried by most chain bookstores under SF.
The perfect right-brain companion to Hofstadter's `G"odel, Escher, Bach'.
There are also numerous misspellings in the book that inflame the passions of old-timers; as Dan Murphy, the author of TECO, once said: "You would have thought he'd take the trouble to spell the name of a winning editor right.
It is more satirical and less anthropological, and is largely a product of the author's literate and quirky imagination.
She has a keen eye for the human aspects of the lore and is very good at illuminating the psychology and evolution of hackerdom.
It is an amazingly well-done portrait of the hacker mindset --- although largely the hardware hacker --- done by a complete outsider.
The result is gossipy, funny, opinionated, downright weird in spots, and invaluable.
Along the way they expose you to enough of UNIX's history, folklore and humor to qualify as a first-class source for these things.
This may well be true; it's certainly difficult to recall a better job.
The principals are Kevin Mitnick, "Pengo" and "Hagbard" of the Chaos Computer Club, and Robert T.
Morris (see {RTM}, sense 2) . Markoff and Hafner focus as much on their psychologies and motivations as on the details of their exploits, but don't slight the latter.
The result is a balanced and fascinating account, particularly useful when read immediately before or after Cliff Stoll's {The Cuckoo's Egg}.
It is especially instructive to compare RTM, a true hacker who blundered, with the sociopathic phone-freak Mitnick and the alienated, drug-addled crackers who made the Chaos Club notorious.
The Hitchhikers Guide to the Internet 25 August 1987 Ed Krol krol@uxc.cso.uiuc.edu This document was produced through funding of the National Science Foundation. Copyright (C) 1987, by the Board of Trustees of The University of Illinois.
Its purpose is to get that person, familiar with a simple net, versed in the "oral tradition" of the Internet to the point that that net can be connected to the Internet with little danger to either.
It is not a tutorial, it consists of pointers to other places, literature, and hints which are not normally documented.
Since the Internet is a dynamic environment, changes to this document will be made regularly.
The author welcomes comments and suggestions. This is especially true of terms for the glossary (definitions are not necessary). In the beginning there was the ARPAnet, a wide area experimental network connecting hosts and terminal servers together.
Procedures were set up to regulate the allocation of addresses and to create voluntary standards for the network. As local area networks became more pervasive, many hosts became gateways to local networks.
A network layer to allow the interoperation of these networks was developed and called IP (Internet Protocol).
Over time other groups created long haul IP based networks (NASA, NSF, states...).
These nets, too, interoperate because of IP.
The collection of all of these interoperating networks is the Internet. Two groups do much of the research and information work of the Internet (ISI and SRI).
ISI (the Informational Sciences Institute) does much of the research, standardization, and allocation work of the Internet.
SRI International provides information services for the Internet.
The ARPAnet is run by BBN, Inc. under contract from DARPA.
Their facility is called the Network Operations Center or NOC.
Cornell University temporarily operates NSFnet (called the Network Information Service Center, NISC).
If a problem comes up, it is suggested that a campus network liaison should contact the network operator to which he is directly connected.
It is then commented upon by all those wishing to take part in the discussion (electronically of course). It may go through multiple revisions.
Should it be generally accepted as a good idea, it will be assigned a number and filed with the RFCs. The RFCs can be divided into five groups: required, suggested, directional, informational and obsolete.
Required RFC's (e.g. RFC-791, The Internet Protocol) must be implemented on any host connected to the Internet.
Suggested RFCs are generally implemented by network hosts.
RFC-793 (Transmission Control Protocol) is a suggested RFC.
Directional RFCs were discussed and agreed to, but their application has never come into wide use.
This may be due to the lack of wide need for the specific application (RFC-937 The Post Office Protocol) or that, although technically superior, ran against other pervasive approaches (RFC-891 Hello).
It is suggested that should the facility be required by a particular site, animplementation be done in accordance with the RFC.
Frequently when a change is made to some RFC that causes a new one to be issued obsoleting others, the new RFC only contains explanations and motivations for the change.
There are three means of NIC contact: network, telephone, and mail.
The network accesses are the most prevalent.
From poking around in the databases provided one might decide that a document named NETINFO:NUG.DOC (The Users Guide to the ARPAnet) would be worth having.
It could be retrieved via an anonymous FTP.
Goodbye. (Another good initial document to fetch is NETINFO:WHAT-THE-NIC-DOES.TXT)! Questions of the NIC or problems with services can be asked of or reported to using electronic mail.
One frequently ordered document for starting sites is a compendium of major RFCs.
Mail reflectors are special electronic mailboxes which, when they receive a message, resend it to a list of other mailboxes. This in effect creates a discussion group on a particular topic.
For example, if you wanted to take part in the mailing list for NSFnet reflected by NSFNET@NNSC.NSF.NET, one sends a request to -5- NSFNET-REQUEST@NNSC.NSF.NET.
This may be a wonderful scheme, but the problem is that you must know the list exists in the first place.
One is to re-reflect the message on the campus. That is, set up a reflector on a local machine which forwards the message to a campus distribution list.
The other is to create an alias on a campus machine which places the messages into a notesfile on the topic.
Campus users who want the information could access the notesfile and see the messages that have been sent since their last access.
One might also elect to have the campus wide area network liaison screen the messages in either case and only forward those which are considered of merit.
Either of these schemes allows one message to be sent to the campus, while allowing wide distribution within. Address Allocation Before a local network can be connected to the Internet it must be allocated a unique IP address.
These addresses are allocated by ISI.
The allocation process consists of getting an application form received from ISI. (Send a message to hostmaster@sri-nic.arpa and ask for the template for a connected address).
This template is filled out and mailed back to hostmaster.
An address is allocated and e-mailed back to you.
This can also be done by postal mail (Appendix B). IP addresses are 32 bits long.
It is usually written as four decimal numbers separated by periods (e.g., 192.17.5.100). Each number is the value of an octet of the 32 bits.
This classification had to with the interpretation of the octets.
Class A networks have the first octet as a network address and the remaining three as a host address on that network.
Class C addresses have three octets of network address and one of host.
All of the class A nets have been allocated.
Some of these nodes have a limited capability to store and exchange routing information (limited to about 300 networks).
Therefore, it is suggested that any campus announce (make known to the Internet) no more than two discrete network numbers. If a campus expects to be constrained by this, it should consider subnetting.
Subnetting (RFC-932) allows one to announce one address to the Internet and use a set of addresses on the campus.
Basically, one defines a mask which allows the network to differentiate between the network portion and host portion of the address.
By using a different mask on the Internet and the campus, the address can be interpreted in multiple ways.
For example, if a campus requires two networks internally and has the 32,000 addresses beginning 128.174.X.X (a Class B address) allocated to it, the campus could allocate 128.174.5.X to one part of campus and 128.174.10.X to another.
By advertising 128.174 to the Internet with a subnet mask of FF.FF.00.00, the Internet would treat these two addresses as one.
Not all systems know how to do subnetting.
Some 4.2BSD systems require additional software.
4.3BSD systems subnet as released.
Other devices -7- and operating systems vary in the problems they have dealing with subnets.
Frequently these machines can be used as a leaf on a network but not as a gateway within the subnetted portion of the network.
As time passes and more systems become 4.3BSD based, these problems should disappear. There has been some confusion in the past over the format of an IP broadcast address.
Some machines used an address of all zeros to mean broadcast and some all ones.
This was confusing when machines of both type were connected to the same network.
The broadcast address of all ones has been adopted to end the grief.
Some systems (e.g. 4.2 BSD) allow one to choose the format of the broadcast address.
If a system does allow this choice, care should be taken that the all ones format is chosen. (This is explained in RFC-1009 and RFC-1010). Internet Problems There are a number of problems with the Internet.
Solutions to the problems range from software changes to long term research projects.
Some of the major ones are detailed below: Number of Networks When the Internet was designed it was to have about 50 connected networks.
With the explosion of networking, the number is now approaching 300.
The software in a group of critical gateways (called the core gateways of the ARPAnet) are not able to pass or store much more than that number.
In the short term, core reallocation and recoding has raised the number slightly.
Much research is being done in the area, but the optimal solution to these routing problems is still years away.
In the past this was not a big problem since most of the gateways belonged to a single administrative entity (DARPA).
The chairs of these task forces are not part of the IAB. -9- Routing Routing is the algorithm by which a network directs a packet from its source to its destination.
To appreciate the problem, watch a small child trying to find a table in a restaurant. From the adult point of view the structure of the dining room is seen and an optimal route easily chosen.
The child, however, is presented with a set of paths between tables where a good path, let alone the optimal one to the goal is not discernible.*** A little more background might be appropriate.
IP gateways (more correctly routers) are boxes which have connections to multiple networks and pass traffic between these nets.
The information in the IP header which is used is primarily the destination address. Other information (e.g. type of service) is largely ignored at this time.
The state of the network is determined by the routers passing information among themselves.
They know completely about their own area, but to leave that area they go to one particular place (the default gateway).
Typically these are used in smaller networks (campus, regional...). -10- Routing protocols in current use: Static (no protocol-table/default routing) Don't laugh.
It is probably the most reliable, easiest to implement, and least likely to get one into trouble for a small network or a leaf on the Internet.
This is, also, the only method available on some CPU-operating system combinations.
The routers passing dynamic information are sometimes confused by conflicting dynamic and static routes.
It is used by many routers (Proteon, cisco, UB...) and many BSD Unix systems BSD systems typically run a program called "routed" to exchange information with other systems running RIP.
RIP works best for nets of small diameter where the links are of equal speed.
The reason for this is that the metric used to determine which path is best is the hop-count.
A hop is a traversal across a gateway.
So, all machines on the same Ethernet are zero hops away.
If a router connects connects two net- works directly, a machine on the other side of the router is one hop away....
As the routing information is passed through a gateway, the gateway adds one to the hop counts to keep them consistent across the net- work.
The diameter of a network is defined as the largest hop-count possible within a network.
Unfor- tunately, a hop count of 16 is defined as infinity in RIP meaning the link is down.
Therefore, RIP will not allow hosts separated by more than 15 gateways in the RIP space to communicate. The other problem with hop-count metrics is that if links have different speeds, that difference is not -11- reflected in the hop-count.
So a one hop satellite link (with a .5 sec delay) at 56kb would be used instead of a two hop T1 connection.
Congestion can be viewed as a decrease in the efficacy of a link.
So, as a link gets more congested, RIP will still know it is the best hop-count route and congest it even more by throwing more packets on the queue for that link. The protocol is not well documented.
A group of people are working on producing an RFC to both define the current RIP and to do some extensions to it to allow it to better cope with larger networks.
Currently, the best documentation for RIP appears to be the code to BSD "routed". Routed The ROUTED program, which does RIP for 4.2BSD systems, has many options.
One of the most frequently used is: "routed -q" (quiet mode) which means listen to RIP infor- mation but never broadcast it.
This would be used by a machine on a network with multiple RIP speaking gate- ways.
For the most part the "route add" command is preferable to use.
The reason for this is that the command adds the route to that machine's routing table but does not export it through RIP.
The "/etc/gateways" file takes precedence over any routing information received through a RIP update.
It does not have wide usage, but is the routing protocol currently used on the NSFnet backbone.
The data transferred between nodes is similar to RIP (a list of networks and their metrics).
If you consider the problem of measuring delay on a link for the metric, you find that it is not an easy thing to do.
You cannot measure round trip time since the return link may be more congested, of a different speed, or even not there.
It is not really feasible for each node on the network to have a builtin WWV (nationwide radio time standard) receiver.
So, you must design an algorithm to pass around time between nodes over the network links where the delay in transmission can only be approximated.
Hello routers do this and in a nationwide network maintain synchronized time within milliseconds. Exterior Gateway Protocol (EGP RFC-904) EGP is not strictly a routing protocol, it is a reacha- bility protocol.
It tells only if nets can be reached through a particular gateway, not how good the connec- tion is.
It is the standard by which gateways to local nets inform the ARPAnet of the nets they can reach. There is a metric passed around by EGP but its usage is not standardized formally.
Its typical value is value is 1 to 8 which are arbitrary goodness of link values understood by the internal DDN gateways.
The smaller the value the better and a value of 8 being unreach- able.
A quirk of the protocol prevents distinguishing between 1 and 2, 3 and 4..., so the usablity of this as a metric is as three values and unreachable.
Within NSFnet the values used are 1, 3, and unreachable.
Many routers talk EGP so they can be used for ARPAnet gateways. -13- Gated So we have regional and campus networks talking RIP among themselves, the NSFnet backbone talking Hello, and the DDN speaking EGP. How do they interoperate?
In the beginning there was static routing, assembled into the Fuzzball software configured for each site.
The problem with doing static routing in the middle of the network is that it is broadcast to the Internet whether it is usable or not.
Therefore, if a net becomes unreachable and you try to get there, dynamic routing will immediately issue a net unreachable to you.
Under static routing the routers would think the net could be reached and would continue trying until the application gave up (in 2 or more minutes).
Mark Fedor of Cornell (fedor@devvax.tn.cornell.edu) attempted to solve these problems with a replacement for "routed" called "gated". "Gated" talks RIP to RIP speaking hosts, EGP to EGP speakers, and Hello to Hello'ers.
These speakers frequently all live on one Ethernet, but luckily (or unluckily) cannot understand each others ruminations. In addition, under configuration file control it can filter the conversion.
For example, one can produce a configuration saying announce RIP nets via Hello only if they are specified in a list and are reachable by way of a RIP broadcast as well.
This means that if a rogue network appears in your local site's RIP space, it won't be passed through to the Hello side of the world.
Also, remember that infinity (unreachability) is 16 to RIP, 30000 or so to Hello, and 8 to the DDN with EGP. Getting all these metrics to work well together is no small feat.
If done incorrectly and you translate an RIP of 16 into an EGP of 6, everyone in the ARPAnet will still think your gateway can reach the unreachable and will send every packet in the world your way.
For these reasons, Mark requests that you consult closely with him when configuring and using "gated". -14- "Names" All routing across the network is done by means of the IP address associated with a packet.
Since humans find it difficult to remember addresses like 128.174.5.50, a symbolic name register was set up at the NIC where people would say "I would like my host to be named 'uiucuxc'".
Machines connected to the Internet across the nation would connect to the NIC in the middle of the night, check modification dates on the hosts file, and if modified move it to their local machine.
With the advent of workstations and micros, changes to the host file would have to be made nightly.
It would also be very labor intensive and consume a lot of network bandwidth.
If the machine moves, the address changes.
Second, a machine can have one or more names and one or more network addresses (connections) to different networks.
Names point to a something which does useful work (i.e. the machine) and IP addresses point to an interface on that provider.
A name is a purely symbolic representation of a list of addresses on the network.
If a machine moves to a different network, the addresses will change but the name could remain the same. Domain names are tree structured names with the root of the tree at the right.
The resolver knows how to contact across the network a root name server.
Root servers are the base of the tree structured data retrieval system.
They know who is responsible for handling first level domains (e.g. 'edu').
What root servers to use is an installation parameter.
From the root server the resolver finds out who provides 'edu' service.
It contacts the 'edu' name server which supplies it with a list of addresses of servers for the subdomains (like 'uiuc').
This action is repeated with the subdomain servers until the final sub- domain returns a list of addresses of interfaces on the host in question.
The user's machine then has its choice of which of these addresses to use for communication. -15- A group may apply for its own domain name (like 'uiuc' above).
This is done in a manner similar to the IP address allocation.
The only requirements are that the requestor have two machines reachable from the Internet, which will act as name servers for that domain.
Those servers could also act as servers for subdomains or other servers could be designated as such.
Note that the servers need not be located in any particular place, as long as they are reach- able for name resolution. (U of I could ask Michigan State to act on its behalf and that would be fine).
The biggest problem is that someone must do maintenance on the database. If the machine is not convenient, that might not be done in a timely fashion.
The name server is a distributed data base system that allows clients to name resources and to share that information with other net- work hosts.
BIND is integrated with 4.3BSD and is used to lookup and store host names, addresses, mail agents, host information, and more.
It replaces the "/etc/hosts" file for host name lookup.
BIND is still an evolving program.
To keep up with reports on operational problems, future design decisions, etc, join the BIND mailing list by sending a request to "bind-request@ucbarp.Berkeley.EDU".
BIND can also be obtained via anonymous FTP from ucbarpa.berkley.edu. There are several advantages in using BIND.
One of the most important is that it frees a host from relying on "/etc/hosts" being up to date and complete.
Within the .uiuc.edu domain, only a few hosts are included in the host table distributed by SRI.
The remainder are listed locally within the BIND tables on uxc.cso.uiuc.edu (the server machine for most of the .uiuc.edu domain).
All are equally reachable from any other Internet host running BIND. BIND can also provide mail forwarding information for inte- rior hosts not directly reachable from the Internet.
These hosts can either be on non-advertised networks, or not con- nected to a network at all, as in the case of UUCP-reachable hosts.
More information on BIND is available in the "Name Server Operations Guide for BIND" in "UNIX System Manager's Manual", 4.3BSD release. There are a few special domains on the network, like SRI- NIC.ARPA.
The 'arpa' domain is historical, referring to hosts registered in the old hosts database at the NIC. There are others of the form NNSC.NSF.NET.
These special domains are used sparingly and require ample justification. They refer to servers under the administrative control of -16- the network rather than any single organization.
Resolvers and some servers cache information to allow steps in the resolution to be skipped.
Information provided by the servers can be arbitrary, not merely IP addresses.
In earlier versions (e.g. BSD 4.2) there was good support for the basic Internet protocols (TCP, IP, SMTP, ARP) which allowed it to perform nicely on IP ether- nets and smaller Internets.
There were deficiencies, how- ever, when it was connected to complicated networks.
Most of these problems have been resolved under the newest release (BSD 4.3).
As time goes on, when BSD 4.3 trickles through vendors as new release, many of the problems will be resolved.
It doesn't have to be the best gateway.
If the system is on a network with multiple gateways, and a host sends a packet for delivery to a gateway which feels another directly connected gateway is more appropriate, the gateway sends the sender a message.
This message is an ICMP redirect, which politely says "I'll deliver this message for you, but you really ought to use that gate- way over there to reach this host".
BSD 4.2 ignores these messages.
The problem is that trailers were never standardized and most gateways don't know to look for the routing information at the end of the block.
When trailers are used, the machine typically works fine on the local network (no gateways involved) and for short blocks through gateways (on which trailers aren't used).
So TELNET and FTP's of very short files work just fine and FTP's of long files seem to hang.
On BSD 4.2 trailers are a boot option and one should make sure they are off when using the Internet.
BSD 4.3 negotiates trailers, so it uses them on its local net and doesn't use them when going across the network. Retransmissions TCP fires off blocks to its partner at the far end of the connection.
If it doesn't receive an acknowledge- ment in a reasonable amount of time it retransmits the blocks.
The determination of what is reasonable is done by TCP's retransmission algorithm.
There is no correct algorithm but some are better than others, where better is measured by the number of retransmis- sions done unnecessarily.
BSD 4.2 had a retransmission algorithm which retransmitted quickly and often.
This is exactly what you would want if you had a bunch of machines on an ethernet (a low delay network of large bandwidth).
If you have a network of relatively longer delay and scarce bandwidth (e.g. 56kb lines), it tends to retransmit too aggressively.
Therefore, it makes the networks and gateways pass more traffic than is really necessary for a given conversation.
Retransmis- sion algorithms do adapt to the delay of the network -18- after a few packets, but 4.2's adapts slowly in delay situations.
BSD 4.3 does a lot better and tries to do the best for both worlds.
It fires off a few retransmissions really quickly assuming it is on a low delay network, and then backs off very quickly.
These gateways have a total picture of the reacha- bility to all networks known to the ARPAnet with EGP.
They then redistribute reachabil- ity information to all those gateways speak- ing EGP.
It is from them your EGP agent (there is one acting for you somewhere if you can reach the ARPAnet) finds out it can reach all the nets on the ARPAnet.
Which is then passed to you via Hello, gated, RIP.... count to infinity The symptom of a routing problem where routing information is passed in a circular manner through multiple gateways.
Each gate- way increments the metric appropriately and passes it on.
This is an attempt to prevent bogus routes to a network from being propagated because of gossip or counting to infinity. -23- End of Project Gutenberg's Hitchhiker's Guide to the Internet, by Ed Krol
This name was given, we are told, in former days, by the good housewives of the adjacent country, from the inveterate propensity of their husbands to linger about the village tavern on market days.
I had wandered into it at noontime, when all nature is peculiarly quiet, and was startled by the roar of my own gun, as it broke the Sabbath stillness around and was prolonged and reverberated by the angry echoes.
A drowsy, dreamy influence seems to hang over the land, and to pervade the very atmosphere.
Certain it is, the place still continues under the sway of some witching power, that holds a spell over the minds of the good people, causing them to walk in a continual reverie.
They are given to all kinds of marvellous beliefs, are subject to trances and visions, and frequently see strange sights, and hear music and voices in the air.
His haunts are not confined to the valley, but extend at times to the adjacent roads, and especially to the vicinity of a church at no great distance.
He was tall, but exceedingly lank, with narrow shoulders, long arms and legs, hands that dangled a mile out of his sleeves, feet that might have served for shovels, and his whole frame most loosely hung together.
His head was small, and flat at top, with huge ears, large green glassy eyes, and a long snipe nose, so that it looked like a weather-cock perched upon his spindle neck to tell which way the wind blew.
The schoolhouse stood in a rather lonely but pleasant situation, just at the foot of a woody hill, with a brook running close by, and a formidable birch-tree growing at one end of it.
Truth to say, he was a conscientious man, and ever bore in mind the golden maxim, "Spare the rod and spoil the child.
Indeed, it behooved him to keep on good terms with his pupils.
He assisted the farmers occasionally in the lighter labors of their farms, helped to make hay, mended the fences, took the horses to water, drove the cows from pasture, and cut wood for the winter fire.
His appearance, therefore, is apt to occasion some little stir at the tea-table of a farmhouse, and the addition of a supernumerary dish of cakes or sweetmeats, or, peradventure, the parade of a silver teapot.
Our man of letters, therefore, was peculiarly happy in the smiles of all the country damsels.
His appetite for the marvellous, and his powers of digesting it, were equally extraordinary; and both had been increased by his residence in this spell-bound region.
No tale was too gross or monstrous for his capacious swallow.
What fearful shapes and shadows beset his path, amidst the dim and ghastly glare of a snowy night!
With what wistful look did he eye every trembling ray of light streaming across the waste fields from some distant window!
How often was he appalled by some shrub covered with snow, which, like a sheeted spectre, beset his very path!
How often did he shrink with curdling awe at the sound of his own steps on the frosty crust beneath his feet; and dread to look over his shoulder, lest he should behold some uncouth being tramping close behind him!
She was a blooming lass of fresh eighteen; plump as a partridge; ripe and melting and rosy-cheeked as one of her father's peaches, and universally famed, not merely for her beauty, but her vast expectations.
She was withal a little of a coquette, as might be perceived even in her dress, which was a mixture of ancient and modern fashions, as most suited to set off her charms.
He seldom, it is true, sent either his eyes or his thoughts beyond the boundaries of his own farm; but within those everything was snug, happy and well-conditioned.
He was satisfied with his wealth, but not proud of it; and piqued himself upon the hearty abundance, rather than the style in which he lived.
His stronghold was situated on the banks of the Hudson, in one of those green, sheltered, fertile nooks in which the Dutch farmers are so fond of nestling.
Under this were hung flails, harness, various utensils of husbandry, and nets for fishing in the neighboring river.
Benches were built along the sides for summer use; and a great spinning-wheel at one end, and a churn at the other, showed the various uses to which this important porch might be devoted.
From this piazza the wondering Ichabod entered the hall, which formed the centre of the mansion, and the place of usual residence.
Here rows of resplendent pewter, ranged on a long dresser, dazzled his eyes.
He was broad-shouldered and double-jointed, with short curly black hair, and a bluff but not unpleasant countenance, having a mingled air of fun and arrogance.
From his Herculean frame and great powers of limb he had received the nickname of BROM BONES, by which he was universally known.
He was always ready for either a fight or a frolic; but had more mischief than ill-will in his composition; and with all his overbearing roughness, there was a strong dash of waggish good humor at bottom.
He had three or four boon companions, who regarded him as their model, and at the head of whom he scoured the country, attending every scene of feud or merriment for miles round.
Ichabod, therefore, made his advances in a quiet and gently insinuating manner.
Under cover of his character of singing-master, he made frequent visits at the farmhouse; not that he had anything to apprehend from the meddlesome interference of parents, which is so often a stumbling-block in the path of lovers.
Balt Van Tassel was an easy indulgent soul; he loved his daughter better even than his pipe, and, like a reasonable man and an excellent father, let her have her way in everything.
To me they have always been matters of riddle and admiration.
Some seem to have but one vulnerable point, or door of access; while others have a thousand avenues, and may be captured in a thousand different ways.
It is a great triumph of skill to gain the former, but a still greater proof of generalship to maintain possession of the latter, for man must battle for his fortress at every door and window.
He who wins a thousand common hearts is therefore entitled to some renown; but he who keeps undisputed sway over the heart of a coquette is indeed a hero.
On a fine autumnal afternoon, Ichabod, in pensive mood, sat enthroned on the lofty stool from whence he usually watched all the concerns of his little literary realm.
But it is meet I should, in the true spirit of romantic story, give some account of the looks and equipments of my hero and his steed.
The animal he bestrode was a broken-down plow-horse, that had outlived almost everything but its viciousness.
A small wool hat rested on the top of his nose, for so his scanty strip of forehead might be called, and the skirts of his black coat fluttered out almost to the horses tail.
In the fullness of their revelry, they fluttered, chirping and frolicking from bush to bush, and tree to tree, capricious from the very profusion and variety around them.
The sun gradually wheeled his broad disk down in the west.
The wide bosom of the Tappan Zee lay motionless and glassy, excepting that here and there a gentle undulation waved and prolonged the blue shadow of the distant mountain.
A few amber clouds floated in the sky, without a breath of air to move them.
The horizon was of a fine golden tint, changing gradually into a pure apple green, and from that into the deep blue of the mid-heaven.
A slanting ray lingered on the woody crests of the precipices that overhung some parts of the river, giving greater depth to the dark gray and purple of their rocky sides.
Old farmers, a spare leathern-faced race, in homespun coats and breeches, blue stockings, huge shoes, and magnificent pewter buckles.
Their brisk, withered little dames, in close-crimped caps, long-waisted short gowns, homespun petticoats, with scissors and pincushions, and gay calico pockets hanging on the outside.
Buxom lasses, almost as antiquated as their mothers, excepting where a straw hat, a fine ribbon, or perhaps a white frock, gave symptoms of city innovation.
Not those of the bevy of buxom lasses, with their luxurious display of red and white; but the ample charms of a genuine Dutch country tea-table, in the sumptuous time of autumn.
Such heaped up platters of cakes of various and almost indescribable kinds, known only to experienced Dutch housewives!
There was the doughty doughnut, the tender oly koek, and the crisp and crumbling cruller; sweet cakes and short cakes, ginger cakes and honey cakes, and the whole family of cakes.
He could not help, too, rolling his large eyes round him as he ate, and chuckling with the possibility that he might one day be lord of all this scene of almost unimaginable luxury and splendor.
The musician was an old gray-headed negro, who had been the itinerant orchestra of the neighborhood for more than half a century.
His instrument was as old and battered as himself.
How could the flogger of urchins be otherwise than animated and joyous?
The British and American line had run near it during the war; it had, therefore, been the scene of marauding and infested with refugees, cowboys, and all kinds of border chivalry.
The neighborhood is rich in legendary treasures of the kind.
Local tales and superstitions thrive best in these sheltered, long-settled retreats; but are trampled under foot by the shifting throng that forms the population of most of our country places.
Several of the Sleepy Hollow people were present at Van Tassel's, and, as usual, were doling out their wild and wonderful legends.
It stands on a knoll, surrounded by locust-trees and lofty elms, from among which its decent, whitewashed walls shine modestly forth, like Christian purity beaming through the shades of retirement.
A gentle slope descends from it to a silver sheet of water, bordered by high trees, between which, peeps may be caught at the blue hills of the Hudson.
To look upon its grass-grown yard, where the sunbeams seem to sleep so quietly, one would think that there at least the dead might rest in peace.
On one side of the church extends a wide woody dell, along which raves a large brook among broken rocks and trunks of fallen trees.
Such was one of the favorite haunts of the Headless Horseman, and the place where he was most frequently encountered.
The old farmers gathered together their families in their wagons, and were heard for some time rattling along the hollow roads, and over the distant hills.
Oh, these women! these women!
Could that girl have been playing off any of her coquettish tricks?
Was her encouragement of the poor pedagogue all a mere sham to secure her conquest of his rival? Heaven only knows, not I!
Let it suffice to say, Ichabod stole forth with the air of one who had been sacking a henroost, rather than a fair lady's heart.
The hour was as dismal as himself.
Far below him the Tappan Zee spread its dusky and indistinct waste of waters, with here and there the tall mast of a sloop, riding quietly at anchor under the land.
Now and then, too, the long-drawn crowing of a cock, accidentally awakened, would sound far, far off, from some farmhouse away among the hills--but it was like a dreaming sound in his ear.
The night grew darker and darker; the stars seemed to sink deeper in the sky, and driving clouds occasionally hid them from his sight.
He had never felt so lonely and dismal.
He was, moreover, approaching the very place where many of the scenes of the ghost stories had been laid.
In the centre of the road stood an enormous tulip-tree, which towered like a giant above all the other trees of the neighborhood, and formed a kind of landmark.
Its limbs were gnarled and fantastic, large enough to form trunks for ordinary trees, twisting down almost to the earth, and rising again into the air.
Suddenly he heard a groan--his teeth chattered, and his knees smote against the saddle: it was but the rubbing of one huge bough upon another, as they were swayed about by the breeze.
He passed the tree in safety, but new perils lay before him. About two hundred yards from the tree, a small brook crossed the road, and ran into a marshy and thickly-wooded glen, known by the name of Wiley's Swamp.
A few rough logs, laid side by side, served for a bridge over this stream.
On that side of the road where the brook entered the wood, a group of oaks and chestnuts, matted thick with wild grape-vines, threw a cavernous gloom over it.
To pass this bridge was the severest trial.
In the dark shadow of the grove, on the margin of the brook, he beheld something huge, misshapen and towering.
It stirred not, but seemed gathered up in the gloom, like some gigantic monster ready to spring upon the traveller. The hair of the affrighted pedagogue rose upon his head with terror. What was to be done?
To turn and fly was now too late; and besides, what chance was there of escaping ghost or goblin, if such it was, which could ride upon the wings of the wind?
Summoning up, therefore, a show of courage, he demanded in stammering accents, "Who are you?" He received no reply.
He repeated his demand in a still more agitated voice.
Still there was no answer.
Once more he cudgelled the sides of the inflexible Gunpowder, and, shutting his eyes, broke forth with involuntary fervor into a psalm tune.
Just then the shadowy object of alarm put itself in motion, and with a scramble and a bound stood at once in the middle of the road.
Though the night was dark and dismal, yet the form of the unknown might now in some degree be ascertained.
He appeared to be a horseman of large dimensions, and mounted on a black horse of powerful frame.
The stranger, however, quickened his horse to an equal pace.
Ichabod pulled up, and fell into a walk, thinking to lag behind,--the other did the same.
His heart began to sink within him; he endeavored to resume his psalm tune, but his parched tongue clove to the roof of his mouth, and he could not utter a stave.
There was something in the moody and dogged silence of this pertinacious companion that was mysterious and appalling.
It was soon fearfully accounted for.
His terror rose to desperation; he rained a shower of kicks and blows upon Gunpowder, hoping by a sudden movement to give his companion the slip; but the spectre started full jump with him.
Away, then, they dashed through thick and thin; stones flying and sparks flashing at every bound.
The wavering reflection of a silver star in the bosom of the brook told him that he was not mistaken.
He saw the walls of the church dimly glaring under the trees beyond.
He recollected the place where Brom Bones's ghostly competitor had disappeared.
If I can but reach that bridge," thought Ichabod, "I am safe.
Just then he heard the black steed panting and blowing close behind him; he even fancied that he felt his hot breath.
Just then he saw the goblin rising in his stirrups, and in the very act of hurling his head at him.
Ichabod endeavored to dodge the horrible missile, but too late.
Ichabod did not make his appearance at breakfast; dinner-hour came, but no Ichabod.
The boys assembled at the schoolhouse, and strolled idly about the banks of the brook; but no schoolmaster.
Hans Van Ripper now began to feel some uneasiness about the fate of poor Ichabod, and his saddle.
An inquiry was set on foot, and after diligent investigation they came upon his traces.
Hans Van Ripper as executor of his estate, examined the bundle which contained all his worldly effects.
Knots of gazers and gossips were collected in the churchyard, at the bridge, and at the spot where the hat and pumpkin had been found.
The bridge became more than ever an object of superstitious awe; and that may be the reason why the road has been altered of late years, so as to approach the church by the border of the millpond.
The narrator was a pleasant, shabby, gentlemanly old fellow, in pepper-and-salt clothes, with a sadly humourous face, and one whom I strongly suspected of being poor--he made such efforts to be entertaining.
When his story was concluded, there was much laughter and approbation, particularly from two or three deputy aldermen, who had been asleep the greater part of the time.
He was one of your wary men, who never laugh but upon good grounds--when they have reason and law on their side.
He was austere with himself; drank gin when he was alone, to mortify a taste for vintages; and though he enjoyed the theatre, had not crossed the doors of one for twenty years.
But he had an approved tolerance for others; sometimes wondering, almost with envy, at the high pressure of spirits involved in their misdeeds; and in any extremity inclined to help rather than to reprove.
I incline to Cain's heresy," he used to say quaintly: "I let my brother go to the devil in his own way.
In this character, it was frequently his fortune to be the last reputable acquaintance and the last good influence in the lives of down-going men.
It is the mark of a modest man to accept his friendly circle ready-made from the hands of opportunity; and that was the lawyer's way.
His friends were those of his own blood or those whom he had known the longest; his affections, like ivy, were the growth of time, they implied no aptness in the object.
Hence, no doubt, the bond that united him to Mr. Richard Enfield, his distant kinsman, the well-known man about town.
It was a nut to crack for many, what these two could see in each other, or what subject they could find in common.
It was reported by those who encountered them in their Sunday walks, that they said nothing, looked singularly dull, and would hail with obvious relief the appearance of a friend.
The street was small and what is called quiet, but it drove a thriving trade on the week-days.
It was two stories high; showed no window, nothing but a door on the lower story and a blind forehead of discoloured wall on the upper; and bore in every feature, the marks of prolonged and sordid negligence.
The door, which was equipped with neither bell nor knocker, was blistered and distained.
Well, sir, the two ran into one another naturally enough at the corner; and then came the horrible part of the thing; for the man trampled calmly over the child's body and left her screaming on the ground.
It sounds nothing to hear, but it was hellish to see.
It wasn't like a man; it was like some damned Juggernaut.
I gave a view-halloa, took to my heels, collared my gentleman, and brought him back to where there was already quite a group about the screaming child.
He was perfectly cool and made no resistance, but gave me one look, so ugly that it brought out the sweat on me like running.
The people who had turned out were the girl's own family; and pretty soon, the doctor, for whom she had been sent, put in his appearance.
Well, the child was not much the worse, more frightened, according to the Sawbones; and there you might have supposed would be an end to it.
But there was one curious circumstance.
I had taken a loathing to my gentleman at first sight.
So had the child's family, which was only natural.
But the doctor's case was what struck me.
He was the usual cut-and-dry apothecary, of no particular age and colour, with a strong Edinburgh accent, and about as emotional as a bagpipe.
Well, sir, he was like the rest of us; every time he looked at my prisoner, I saw that Sawbones turn sick and white with the desire to kill him.
I knew what was in his mind, just as he knew what was in mine; and killing being out of the question, we did the next best.
We told the man we could and would make such a scandal out of this, as should make his name stink from one end of London to the other.
If he had any friends or any credit, we undertook that he should lose them.
And all the time, as we were pitching it in red hot, we were keeping the women off him as best we could, for they were as wild as harpies.
I never saw a circle of such hateful faces; and there was the man in the middle, with a kind of black, sneering coolness-frightened too, I could see that-but carrying it off, sir, really like Satan.
If you choose to make capital out of this accident,' said he, 'I am naturally helpless.
No gentleman but wishes to avoid a scene,' says he.
Well, we screwed him up to a hundred pounds for the child's family; he would have clearly liked to stick out; but there was something about the lot of us that meant mischief, and at last he struck.
The figure was stiff; but the signature was good for more than that, if it was only genuine.
But he was quite easy and sneering.
Set your mind at rest,' says he, 'I will stay with you till the banks open and cash the cheque myself.
So we all set off, the doctor, and the child's father, and our friend and myself, and passed the rest of the night in my chambers; and next day, when we had breakfasted, went in a body to the bank.
I gave in the check myself, and said I had every reason to believe it was a forgery.
Not a bit of it.
The cheque was genuine." "Tut-tut," said Mr. Utterson. "I see you feel as I do," said Mr. Enfield.
Yes, it's a bad story.
Black-mail, I suppose; an honest man paying through the nose for some of the capers of his youth. Black-Mail House is what I call that place with the door, in consequence.
But I happen to have noticed his address; he lives in some square or other." "And you never asked about the-place with the door?" said Mr. Utterson. "No, sir: I had a delicacy," was the reply.
I feel very strongly about putting questions; it partakes too much of the style of the day of judgment.
You start a question, and it's like starting a stone.
No, sir, I make it a rule of mine: the more it looks like Queer Street, the less I ask." "A very good rule, too," said the lawyer. "But I have studied the place for myself," continued Mr. Enfield.
It seems scarcely a house.
There is no other door, and nobody goes in or out of that one but, once in a great while, the gentleman of my adventure.
There are three windows looking on the court on the first floor; none below; the windows are always shut but they're clean.
And then there is a chimney which is generally smoking; so somebody must live there.
It was a man of the name of Hyde." "H'm," said Mr. Utterson.
What sort of a man is he to see?" "He is not easy to describe.
There is something wrong with his appearance; something displeasing, something downright detestable.
I never saw a man I so disliked, and yet I scarce know why.
He must be deformed somewhere; he gives a strong feeling of deformity, although I couldn't specify the point.
He's an extraordinary-looking man, and yet I really can name nothing out of the way.
No, sir; I can make no hand of it; I can't describe him.
The fact is, if I do not ask you the name of the other party, it is because I know it already.
You see, Richard, your tale has gone home.
If you have been inexact in any point, you had better correct it." "I think you might have warned me," returned the other, with a touch of sullenness.
But I have been pedantically exact, as you call it.
The fellow had a key; and what's more, he has it still.
I saw him use it, not a week ago." Mr. Utterson sighed deeply but said never a word; and the young man presently resumed.
Here is another lesson to say nothing," said he.
I am ashamed of my long tongue.
Let us make a bargain never to refer to this again." "With all my heart," said the lawyer.
I shake hands on that, Richard." SEARCH FOR MR. HYDE That evening Mr. Utterson came home to his bachelor house in sombre spirits and sat down to dinner without relish.
On this night, however, as soon as the cloth was taken away, he took up a candle and went into his business-room.
There he opened his safe, took from the most private part of it a document endorsed on the envelope as Dr. Jekyll's Will, and sat down with a clouded brow to study its contents.
This document had long been the lawyer's eyesore.
It offended him both as a lawyer and as a lover of the sane and customary sides of life, to whom the fanciful was the immodest.
This was a hearty, healthy, dapper, red-faced gentleman, with a shock of hair prematurely white, and a boisterous and decided manner.
At sight of Mr. Utterson, he sprang up from his chair and welcomed him with both hands.
The geniality, as was the way of the man, was somewhat theatrical to the eye; but it reposed on genuine feeling.
But I suppose we are.
I see little of him now." "Indeed?" said Utterson.
I thought you had a bond of common interest." "We had," was the reply.
But it is more than ten years since Henry Jekyll became too fanciful for me.
He began to go wrong, wrong in mind; and though of course I continue to take an interest in him for old sake's sake, as they say, I see and I have seen devilish little of the man.
He gave his friend a few seconds to recover his composure, and then approached the question he had come to put.
Did you ever come across a protege of his-one Hyde?" he asked. "Hyde?" repeated Lanyon.
No. Never heard of him.
Since my time." That was the amount of information that the lawyer carried back with him to the great, dark bed on which he tossed to and fro, until the small hours of the morning began to grow large.
If he could but once set eyes on him, he thought the mystery would lighten and perhaps roll altogether away, as was the habit of mysterious things when well examined.
He might see a reason for his friend's strange preference or bondage (call it which you please) and even for the startling clause of the will.
Small sounds carried far; domestic sounds out of the houses were clearly audible on either side of the roadway; and the rumour of the approach of any passenger preceded him by a long time.
Mr. Utterson had been some minutes at his post, when he was aware of an odd, light footstep drawing near.
The lawyer, looking forth from the entry, could soon see what manner of man he had to deal with.
He was small and very plainly dressed, and the look of him, even at that distance, went somehow strongly against the watcher's inclination.
But his fear was only momentary; and though he did not look the lawyer in the face, he answered coolly enough: "That is my name.
What do you want?" "I see you are going in," returned the lawyer.
And then suddenly, but still without looking up, "How did you know me?" he asked. "On your side," said Mr. Utterson, "will you do me a favour?" "With pleasure," replied the other.
Now I shall know you again," said Mr. Utterson.
And he gave a number of a street in Soho. "Good God!" thought Mr. Utterson, "can he, too, have been thinking of the will?
Who are they?" "Jekyll, for instance," said the lawyer. "He never told you," cried Mr. Hyde, with a flush of anger.
Then he began slowly to mount the street, pausing every step or two and putting his hand to his brow like a man in mental perplexity.
The problem he was thus debating as he walked, was one of a class that is rarely solved.
There is something more, if I could find a name for it.
God bless me, the man seems hardly human!
Something troglodytic, shall we say? or can it be the old story of Dr. Fell? or is it the mere radiance of a foul soul that thus transpires through, and transfigures, its clay continent?
Will you wait here by the fire, sir? or shall I give you a light in the dining room?" "Here, thank you," said the lawyer, and he drew near and leaned on the tall fender.
This hall, in which he was now left alone, was a pet fancy of his friend the doctor's; and Utterson himself was wont to speak of it as the pleasantest room in London.
Mr. Hyde has a key." "Your master seems to repose a great deal of trust in that young man, Poole," resumed the other musingly. "Yes, sir, he do indeed," said Poole.
We have all orders to obey him." "I do not think I ever met Mr. Hyde?" asked Utterson. "O, dear no, sir.
He never _dines_ here," replied the butler.
Indeed we see very little of him on this side of the house; he mostly comes and goes by the laboratory." "Well, good-night, Poole." "Good-night, Mr. Utterson." And the lawyer set out homeward with a very heavy heart.
Poor Harry Jekyll," he thought, "my mind misgives me he is in deep waters!
He was wild when he was young; a long while ago to be sure; but in the law of God, there is no statute of limitations.
Ay, it must be that; the ghost of some old sin, the cancer of some concealed disgrace: punishment coming, _pede claudo_, years after memory has forgotten and self-love condoned the fault.
And the lawyer, scared by the thought, brooded a while on his own past, groping in all the corners of memory, lest by chance some Jack-in-the-Box of an old iniquity should leap to light there.
And then by a return on his former subject, he conceived a spark of hope.
This Master Hyde, if he were studied," thought he, "must have secrets of his own; black secrets, by the look of him; secrets compared to which poor Jekyll's worst would be like sunshine. Things cannot continue as they are.
It turns me cold to think of this creature stealing like a thief to Harry's bedside; poor Harry, what a wakening!
And the danger of it; for if this Hyde suspects the existence of the will, he may grow impatient to inherit.
Ay, I must put my shoulder to the wheel if Jekyll will but let me," he added, "if Jekyll will only let me.
This was no new arrangement, but a thing that had befallen many scores of times.
Where Utterson was liked, he was liked well.
You know that will of yours?" A close observer might have gathered that the topic was distasteful; but the doctor carried it off gaily.
My poor Utterson," said he, "you are unfortunate in such a client.
I never saw a man so distressed as you were by my will; unless it were that hide-bound pedant, Lanyon, at what he called my scientific heresies.
Oh, I know he's a good fellow-you needn't frown-an excellent fellow, and I always mean to see more of him; but a hide-bound pedant for all that; an ignorant, blatant pedant.
I was never more disappointed in any man than Lanyon." "You know I never approved of it," pursued Utterson, ruthlessly disregarding the fresh topic. "My will?
Yes, certainly, I know that," said the doctor, a trifle sharply.
You have told me so." "Well, I tell you so again," continued the lawyer.
I have been learning something of young Hyde." The large handsome face of Dr. Jekyll grew pale to the very lips, and there came a blackness about his eyes.
I do not care to hear more," said he.
This is a matter I thought we had agreed to drop." "What I heard was abominable," said Utterson. "It can make no change.
You do not understand my position," returned the doctor, with a certain incoherency of manner.
I am painfully situated, Utterson; my position is a very strange-a very strange one. It is one of those affairs that cannot be mended by talking." "Jekyll," said Utterson, "you know me: I am a man to be trusted.
I have really a very great interest in poor Hyde.
I know you have seen him; he told me so; and I fear he was rude.
But, I do sincerely take a great, a very great interest in that young man; and if I am taken away, Utterson, I wish you to promise me that you will bear with him and get his rights for him.
The details were few and startling.
A maid servant living alone in a house not far from the river, had gone up-stairs to bed about eleven.
Although a fog rolled over the city in the small hours, the early part of the night was cloudless, and the lane, which the maid's window overlooked, was brilliantly lit by the full moon.
It seems she was romantically given, for she sat down upon her box, which stood immediately under the window, and fell into a dream of musing.
Never (she used to say, with streaming tears, when she narrated that experience), never had she felt more at peace with all men or thought more kindly of the world.
And as she so sat she became aware of an aged and beautiful gentleman with white hair, drawing near along the lane; and advancing to meet him, another and very small gentleman, to whom at first she paid less attention.
Presently her eye wandered to the other, and she was surprised to recognise in him a certain Mr. Hyde, who had once visited her master and for whom she had conceived a dislike.
He had in his hand a heavy cane, with which he was trifling; but he answered never a word, and seemed to listen with an ill-contained impatience.
And then all of a sudden he broke out in a great flame of anger, stamping with his foot, brandishing the cane, and carrying on (as the maid described it) like a madman.
The old gentleman took a step back, with the air of one very much surprised and a trifle hurt; and at that Mr. Hyde broke out of all bounds and clubbed him to the earth.
And next moment, with ape-like fury, he was trampling his victim under foot and hailing down a storm of blows, under which the bones were audibly shattered and the body jumped upon the roadway.
I shall say nothing till I have seen the body," said he; "this may be very serious.
Have the kindness to wait while I dress.
And with the same grave countenance he hurried through his breakfast and drove to the police station, whither the body had been carried.
As soon as he came into the cell, he nodded. "Yes," said he, "I recognise him.
I am sorry to say that this is Sir Danvers Carew." "Good God, sir," exclaimed the officer, "is it possible?
And the next moment his eye lighted up with professional ambition.
This will make a deal of noise," he said.
And perhaps you can help us to the man.
She had an evil face, smoothed by hypocrisy; but her manners were excellent.
This is Inspector Newcomen of Scotland Yard." A flash of odious joy appeared upon the woman's face.
Ah!" said she, "he is in trouble!
What has he done?" Mr. Utterson and the inspector exchanged glances.
He don't seem a very popular character," observed the latter.
A visit to the bank, where several thousand pounds were found to be lying to the murderer's credit, completed his gratification. "You may depend upon it, sir," he told Mr. Utterson: "I have him in my hand.
He must have lost his head, or he never would have left the stick or, above all, burned the cheque-book.
Why, money's life to the man.
The doctor had bought the house from the heirs of a celebrated surgeon; and his own tastes being rather chemical than anatomical, had changed the destination of the block at the bottom of the garden.
At the further end, a flight of stairs mounted to a door covered with red baize; and through this, Mr. Utterson was at last received into the doctor's cabinet.
It was a large room, fitted round with glass presses, furnished, among other things, with a cheval-glass and a business table, and looking out upon the court by three dusty windows barred with iron.
A fire burned in the grate; a lamp was set lighted on the chimney shelf, for even in the houses the fog began to lie thickly; and there, close up to the warmth, sat Dr. Jekyll, looking deadly sick.
They were crying it in the square," he said.
I heard them in my dining-room." "One word," said the lawyer.
Carew was my client, but so are you, and I want to know what I am doing.
You have not been mad enough to hide this fellow?" "Utterson, I swear to God," cried the doctor, "I swear to God I will never set eyes on him again.
I bind my honour to you that I am done with him in this world.
It is all at an end.
You seem pretty sure of him," said he; "and for your sake, I hope you may be right.
If it came to a trial, your name might appear." "I am quite sure of him," replied Jekyll; "I have grounds for certainty that I cannot share with any one.
But there is one thing on which you may advise me.
I have-I have received a letter; and I am at a loss whether I should show it to the police.
I cannot say that I care what becomes of Hyde; I am quite done with him.
I was thinking of my own character, which this hateful business has rather exposed." Utterson ruminated a while; he was surprised at his friend's selfishness, and yet relieved by it.
But it bore no postmark.
The note was handed in." "Shall I keep this and sleep upon it?" asked Utterson. "I wish you to judge for me entirely," was the reply.
I have lost confidence in myself." "Well, I shall consider," returned the lawyer.
And now one word more: it was Hyde who dictated the terms in your will about that disappearance?" The doctor seemed seized with a qualm of faintness: he shut his mouth tight and nodded. "I knew it," said Utterson.
He meant to murder you.
You have had a fine escape." "I have had what is far more to the purpose," returned the doctor solemnly: "I have had a lesson-O God, Utterson, what a lesson I have had!
But Poole was positive nothing had come except by post; "and only circulars by that," he added. This news sent off the visitor with his fears renewed.
Plainly the letter had come by the laboratory door; possibly, indeed, it had been written in the cabinet; and if that were so, it must be differently judged, and handled with the more caution.
The newsboys, as he went, were crying themselves hoarse along the footways: "Special edition. Shocking murder of an M.
That was the funeral oration of one friend and client; and he could not help a certain apprehension lest the good name of another should be sucked down in the eddy of the scandal.
It was, at least, a ticklish decision that he had to make; and self-reliant as he was by habit, he began to cherish a longing for advice.
But the room was gay with firelight.
There was no man from whom he kept fewer secrets than Mr. Guest; and he was not always sure that he kept as many as he meant.
It has elicited a great deal of public feeling," returned Guest.
The man, of course, was mad." "I should like to hear your views on that," replied Utterson.
I have a document here in his handwriting; it is between ourselves, for I scarce know what to do about it; it is an ugly business at the best.
But there it is; quite in your way a murderer's autograph." Guest's eyes brightened, and he sat down at once and studied it with passion.
No, sir," he said: "not mad; but it is an odd hand." "And by all accounts a very odd writer," added the lawyer. Just then the servant entered with a note. "Is that from Dr. Jekyll, sir?" inquired the clerk.
I thought I knew the writing.
Anything private, Mr. Utterson?" "Only an invitation to dinner.
Do you want to see it?" "One moment.
I thank you, sir"; and the clerk laid the two sheets of paper alongside and sedulously compared their contents.
I understand." But no sooner was Mr. Utterson alone that night than he locked the note into his safe, where it reposed from that time forward.
Henry Jekyll forge for a murderer!
The death of Sir Danvers was, to his way of thinking, more than paid for by the disappearance of Mr. Hyde. Now that that evil influence had been withdrawn, a new life began for Dr. Jekyll.
He came out of his seclusion, renewed relations with his friends, became once more their familiar guest and entertainer; and whilst he had always been known for charities, he was now no less distinguished for religion.
On the 12th, and again on the 14th, the door was shut against the lawyer.
The doctor was confined to the house," Poole said, "and saw no one.
On the 15th, he tried again, and was again refused; and having now been used for the last two months to see his friend almost daily, he found this return of solitude to weigh upon his spirits.
He had his death-warrant written legibly upon his face.
It was unlikely that the doctor should fear death; and yet that was what Utterson was tempted to suspect.
Yes," he thought; "he is a doctor, he must know his own state and that his days are counted; and the knowledge is more than he can bear.
And yet when Utterson remarked on his ill-looks, it was with an air of greatness that Lanyon declared himself a doomed man. "I have had a shock," he said, "and I shall never recover.
It is a question of weeks.
Well, life has been pleasant; I liked it; yes, sir, I used to like it.
I sometimes think if we knew all, we should be more glad to get away." "Jekyll is ill, too," observed Utterson.
Have you seen him?" But Lanyon's face changed, and he held up a trembling hand.
We are three very old friends, Lanyon; we shall not live to make others." "Nothing can be done," returned Lanyon; "ask himself." "He will not see me," said the lawyer. "I am not surprised at that," was the reply.
Some day, Utterson, after I am dead, you may perhaps come to learn the right and wrong of this.
The quarrel with Lanyon was incurable.
I do not blame our old friend," Jekyll wrote, "but I share his view that we must never meet.
I mean from henceforth to lead a life of extreme seclusion; you must not be surprised, nor must you doubt my friendship, if my door is often shut even to you.
You must suffer me to go my own dark way.
I have brought on myself a punishment and a danger that I cannot name.
If I am the chief of sinners, I am the chief of sufferers also.
I could not think that this earth contained a place for sufferings and terrors so unmanning; and you can do but one thing, Utterson, to lighten this destiny, and that is to respect my silence.
PRIVATE: for the hands of G.
Utterson ALONE and in case of his predecease _to be destroyed unread_," so it was emphatically superscribed; and the lawyer dreaded to behold the contents.
I have buried one friend to-day," he thought: "what if this should cost me another?
And then he condemned the fear as a disloyalty, and broke the seal.
Within there was another enclosure, likewise sealed, and marked upon the cover as "not to be opened till the death or disappearance of Dr. Henry Jekyll.
Utterson could not trust his eyes.
Yes, it was disappearance; here again, as in the mad will which he had long ago restored to its author, here again were the idea of a disappearance and the name of Henry Jekyll bracketed.
But in the will, that idea had sprung from the sinister suggestion of the man Hyde; it was set there with a purpose all too plain and horrible. Written by the hand of Lanyon, what should it mean?
He thought of him kindly; but his thoughts were disquieted and fearful.
Poole had, indeed, no very pleasant news to communicate.
We shall never see more of Mr. Hyde." "I hope not," said Utterson.
It was partly your own fault that I found it out, even when I did." "So you found it out, did you?" said Utterson.
But if that be so, we may step into the court and take a look at the windows.
The middle one of the three windows was half-way open; and sitting close beside it, taking the air with an infinite sadness of mien, like some disconsolate prisoner, Utterson saw Dr. Jekyll. "What!
I trust you are better." "I am very low, Utterson," replied the doctor, drearily, "very low.
It will not last long, thank God." "You stay too much indoors," said the lawyer.
You should be out, whipping up the circulation like Mr. Enfield and me. (This is my cousin-Mr. Enfield-Dr. Jekyll.) Come, now; get your hat and take a quick turn with us." "You are very good," sighed the other.
I should like to very much; but no, no, no, it is quite impossible; I dare not.
But the words were hardly uttered, before the smile was struck out of his face and succeeded by an expression of such abject terror and despair, as froze the very blood of the two gentlemen below.
They saw it but for a glimpse, for the window was instantly thrust down; but that glimpse had been sufficient, and they turned and left the court without a word.
Well, he's shut up again in the cabinet; and I don't like it, sir-I wish I may die if I like it.
Mr. Utterson, sir, I'm afraid." "Now, my good man," said the lawyer, "be explicit.
Even now, he sat with the glass of wine untasted on his knee, and his eyes directed to a corner of the floor.
I can bear it no more," he repeated. "Come," said the lawyer, "I see you have some good reason, Poole; I see there is something seriously amiss.
Try to tell me what it is." "I think there's been foul play," said Poole, hoarsely. "Foul play!" cried the lawyer, a good deal frightened and rather inclined to be irritated in consequence.
The wind made talking difficult, and flecked the blood into the face.
It seemed to have swept the streets unusually bare of passengers, besides; for Mr. Utterson thought he had never seen that part of London so deserted.
Open the door." The hall, when they entered it, was brightly lighted up; the fire was built high; and about the hearth the whole of the servants, men and women, stood huddled together like a flock of sheep.
At the sight of Mr. Utterson, the housemaid broke into hysterical whimpering; and the cook, crying out, "Bless God! it's Mr. Utterson," ran forward as if to take him in her arms. "What, what?
Are you all here?" said the lawyer peevishly.
Very irregular, very unseemly; your master would be far from pleased." "They're all afraid," said Poole. Blank silence followed, no one protesting; only the maid lifted up her voice and now wept loudly. "Hold your tongue!
And now," continued the butler, addressing the knife-boy, "reach me a candle, and we'll get this through hands at once.
And then he begged Mr. Utterson to follow him, and led the way to the back-garden. "Now, sir," said he, "you come as gently as you can.
I want you to hear, and I don't want you to be heard.
Well, yes, I think so," said the butler.
Have I been twenty years in this man's house, to be deceived about his voice?
Suppose it were as you suppose, supposing Dr. Jekyll to have been-well, murdered, what could induce the murderer to stay?
That won't hold water; it doesn't commend itself to reason." "Well, Mr. Utterson, you are a hard man to satisfy, but I'll do it yet," said Poole.
All this last week (you must know) him, or it, or whatever it is that lives in that cabinet, has been crying night and day for some sort of medicine and cannot get it to his mind.
It was sometimes his way-the master's, that is-to write his orders on a sheet of paper and throw it on the stair.
We've had nothing else this week back; nothing but papers, and a closed door, and the very meals left there to be smuggled in when nobody was looking.
Well, sir, every day, ay, and twice and thrice in the same day, there have been orders and complaints, and I have been sent flying to all the wholesale chemists in town.
Every time I brought the stuff back, there would be another paper telling me to return it, because it was not pure, and another order to a different firm.
This drug is wanted bitter bad, sir, whatever for." "Have you any of these papers?" asked Mr. Utterson. Poole felt in his pocket and handed out a crumpled note, which the lawyer, bending nearer to the candle, carefully examined.
Its contents ran thus: "Dr. Jekyll presents his compliments to Messrs.
He assures them that their last sample is impure and quite useless for his present purpose.
In the year 18--, Dr. J. purchased a somewhat large quantity from Messrs.
He now begs them to search with the most sedulous care, and should any of the same quality be left, to forward it to him at once.
The importance of this to Dr. J. can hardly be exaggerated.
So far the letter had run composedly enough, but here with a sudden splutter of the pen, the writer's emotion had broken loose.
Well?" "That's it!" said Poole.
I came suddenly into the theatre from the garden.
It seems he had slipped out to look for this drug or whatever it is; for the cabinet door was open, and there he was at the far end of the room digging among the crates.
He looked up when I came in, gave a kind of cry, and whipped up-stairs into the cabinet. It was but for one minute that I saw him, but the hair stood upon my head like quills.
Sir, if that was my master, why had he a mask upon his face?
If it was my master, why did he cry out like a rat, and run from me?
I have served him long enough.
And then..." The man paused and passed his hand over his face. "These are all very strange circumstances," said Mr. Utterson, "but I think I begin to see daylight.
My master"-here he looked round him and began to whisper-"is a tall, fine build of a man, and this was more of a dwarf.
We both think more than we have said; let us make a clean breast.
This masked figure that you saw, did you recognise it?" "Well, sir, it went so quick, and the creature was so doubled up, that I could hardly swear to that," was the answer.
But if you mean, was it Mr. Hyde?-why, yes, I think it was!
You see, it was much of the same bigness; and it had the same quick, light way with it; and then who else could have got in by the laboratory door?
You have not forgot, sir that at the time of the murder he had still the key with him?
Well, when that masked thing like a monkey jumped from among the chemicals and whipped into the cabinet, it went down my spine like ice.
Oh, I know it's not evidence, Mr. Utterson.
I'm book-learned enough for that; but a man has his feelings, and I give you my bible-word it was Mr. Hyde!" "Ay, ay," said the lawyer.
My fears incline to the same point.
Evil, I fear, founded-evil was sure to come-of that connection.
Ay, truly, I believe you; I believe poor Harry is killed; and I believe his murderer (for what purpose, God alone can tell) is still lurking in his victim's room.
Well, let our name be vengeance.
Call Bradshaw." The footman came at the summons, very white and nervous. "Pull yourself together, Bradshaw," said the lawyer.
This suspense, I know, is telling upon all of you; but it is now our intention to make an end of it.
Poole, here, and I are going to force our way into the cabinet.
If all is well, my shoulders are broad enough to bear the blame.
Meanwhile, lest anything should really be amiss, or any malefactor seek to escape by the back, you and the boy must go round the corner with a pair of good sticks and take your post at the laboratory door.
We give you ten minutes to get to your stations." As Bradshaw left, the lawyer looked at his watch.
And now, Poole, let us get to ours," he said; and taking the poker under his arm, led the way into the yard.
The scud had banked over the moon, and it was now quite dark.
Only when a new sample comes from the chemist, there's a bit of a break.
Ah, it's an ill conscience that's such an enemy to rest!
Is there never anything else?" he asked. Poole nodded.
Once I heard it weeping!" "Weeping? how that?" said the lawyer, conscious of a sudden chill of horror. "Weeping like a woman or a lost soul," said the butler.
I came away with that upon my heart, that I could have wept too." But now the ten minutes drew to an end.
He paused a moment, but there came no reply.
Down with the door, Poole!" Poole swung the axe over his shoulder; the blow shook the building, and the red baize door leaped against the lock and hinges.
A dismal screech, as of mere animal terror, rang from the cabinet.
They drew near on tiptoe, turned it on its back and beheld the face of Edward Hyde.
A corridor joined the theatre to the door on the by-street; and with this the cabinet communicated separately by a second flight of stairs.
There were besides a few dark closets and a spacious cellar.
All these they now thoroughly examined.
Each closet needed but a glance, for all were empty, and all, by the dust that fell from their doors, had stood long unopened.
He must be buried here," he said, hearkening to the sound. "Or he may have fled," said Utterson, and he turned to examine the door in the by-street.
It was locked; and lying near by on the flags, they found the key, already stained with rust. "This does not look like use," observed the lawyer. "Use!" echoed Poole.
Do you not see, sir, it is broken? much as if a man had stamped on it." "Ay," continued Utterson, "and the fractures, too, are rusty.
The two men looked at each other with a scare.
This is beyond me, Poole," said the lawyer.
Let us go back to the cabinet." They mounted the stair in silence, and still with an occasional awe-struck glance at the dead body, proceeded more thoroughly to examine the contents of the cabinet.
For what did Jekyll"-he caught himself up at the word with a start, and then conquering the weakness-"what could Jekyll want with it?" he said. "You may say that!" said Poole.
He looked at Poole, and then back at the paper, and last of all at the dead malefactor stretched upon the carpet. "My head goes round," he said.
O Poole!" the lawyer cried, "he was alive and here this day.
He cannot have been disposed of in so short a space, he must be still alive, he must have fled!
And then, why fled? and how? and in that case, can we venture to declare this suicide?
Oh, we must be careful.
I foresee that we may yet involve your master in some dire catastrophe." "Why don't you read it, sir?" asked Poole. "Because I fear," replied the lawyer solemnly.
God grant I have no cause for it!
I would say nothing of this paper.
If your master has fled or is dead, we may at least save his credit.
You might suppose, after this preface, that I am going to ask you for something dishonourable to grant.
Poole, my butler, has his orders; you will find, him waiting your arrival with a locksmith.
In my extreme distress of wind, I have a morbid fear of misdirecting you; but even if I am in error, you may know the right drawer by its contents: some powders, a phial and a paper book.
This drawer I beg of you to carry back with you to Cavendish Square exactly as it stands. "That is the first part of the service: now for the second.
Then you will have played your part and earned my gratitude completely.
Serve me, my dear Lanyon, and save "Your friend, "H.
I had already sealed this up when a fresh terror struck upon my soul.
It is possible that the postoffice may fail me, and this letter not come into your hands until to-morrow morning.
In that case, dear Lanyon, do my errand when it shall be most convenient for you in the course of the day; and once more expect my messenger at midnight.
The less I understood of this farrago, the less I was in a position to judge of its importance; and an appeal so worded could not be set aside without a grave responsibility.
I rose accordingly from table, got into a hansom, and drove straight to Jekyll's house.
The butler was awaiting my arrival; he had received by the same post as mine a registered letter of instruction, and had sent at once for a locksmith and a carpenter.
The tradesmen came while we were yet speaking; and we moved in a body to old Dr. Denman's surgical theatre, from which (as you are doubtless aware) Jekyll's private cabinet is most conveniently entered.
The door was very strong, the lock excellent; the carpenter avowed he would have great trouble and have to do much damage, if force were to be used; and the locksmith was near despair.
But this last was a handy fellow, and after two hours' work, the door stood open.
The press marked E was unlocked; and I took out the drawer, had it filled up with straw and tied in a sheet, and returned with it to Cavendish Square. Here I proceeded to examine its contents.
The phial, to which I next turned my attention, might have been about half-full of a blood-red liquor, which was highly pungent to the sense of smell and seemed to me to contain phosphorus and some volatile ether.
At the other ingredients I could make no guess.
The book was an ordinary version-book and contained little but a series of dates.
These covered a period of many years, but I observed that the entries ceased nearly a year ago and quite abruptly.
Here were a phial of some tincture, a paper of some salt, and the record of a series of experiments that had led (like too many of Jekyll's investigations) to no end of practical usefulness.
How could the presence of these articles in my house affect either the honour, the sanity, or the life of my flighty colleague?
If his messenger could go to one place, why could he not go to another?
And even granting some impediment, why was this gentleman to be received by me in secret?
I went myself at the summons, and found a small man crouching against the pillars of the portico. "Are you come from Dr. Jekyll?
I asked. He told me "yes" by a constrained gesture; and when I had bidden him enter, he did not obey me without a searching backward glance into the darkness of the square.
Here, at last, I had a chance of clearly seeing him.
I had never set eyes on him before, so much was certain.
This bore some resemblance to incipient rigour, and was accompanied by a marked sinking of the pulse.
Strange to relate, this ludicrous accoutrement was far from moving me to laughter.
My visitor was, indeed, on fire with sombre excitement. "Have you got it?" he cried.
And so lively was his impatience that he even laid his hand upon my arm and sought to shake me. I put him back, conscious at his touch of a certain icy pang along my blood.
You forget that I have not yet the pleasure of your acquaintance.
Be seated, if you please.
What you say is very well founded; and my impatience has shown its heels to my politeness.
At sight of the contents, he uttered one loud sob of such immense relief that I sat petrified.
The mixture, which was at first of a reddish hue, began, in proportion as the crystals melted, to brighten in colour, to effervesce audibly, and to throw off small fumes of vapour.
Suddenly and at the same moment, the ebullition ceased and the compound changed to a dark purple, which faded again more slowly to a watery green.
My visitor, who had watched these metamorphoses with a keen eye, smiled, set down the glass upon the table, and then turned and looked upon me with an air of scrutiny. "And now," said he, "to settle what remains.
Will you be wise? will you be guided? will you suffer me to take this glass in my hand and to go forth from your house without further parley? or has the greed of curiosity too much command of you?
Think before you answer, for it shall be done as you decide.
As you decide, you shall be left as you were before, and neither richer nor wiser, unless the sense of service rendered to a man in mortal distress may be counted as a kind of riches of the soul.
But I have gone too far in the way of inexplicable services to pause before I see the end." "It is well," replied my visitor.
Lanyon, you remember your vows: what follows is under the seal of our profession.
I saw what I saw, I heard what I heard, and my soul sickened at it; and yet now when that sight has faded from my eyes, I ask myself if I believe it, and I cannot answer.
As for the moral turpitude that man unveiled to me, even with tears of penitence, I cannot, even in memory, dwell on it without a start of horror.
I will say but one thing, Utterson, and that (if you can bring your mind to credit it) will be more than enough.
Many a man would have even blazoned such irregularities as I was guilty of; but from the high views that I had set before me, I regarded and hid them with an almost morbid sense of shame.
In this case, I was driven to reflect deeply and inveterately on that hard law of life, which lies at the root of religion and is one of the most plentiful springs of distress.
And it chanced that the direction of my scientific studies, which led wholly toward the mystic and the transcendental, re-acted and shed a strong light on this consciousness of the perennial war among my members.
I say two, because the state of my own knowledge does not pass beyond that point.
Others will follow, others will outstrip me on the same lines; and I hazard the guess that man will be ultimately known for a mere polity of multifarious, incongruous, and independent denizens.
I, for my part, from the nature of my life, advanced infallibly in one direction and in one direction only.
I began to perceive more deeply than it has ever yet been stated, the trembling immateriality, the mist-like transience of this seemingly so solid body in which we walk attired.
Certain agents I found to have the power to shake and to pluck back that fleshly vestment, even as a wind might toss the curtains of a pavilion.
For two good reasons, I will not enter deeply into this scientific branch of my confession.
Second, because, as my narrative will make, alas! too evident, my discoveries were incomplete.
But the temptation of a discovery so singular and profound, at last overcame the suggestions of alarm.
Then these agonies began swiftly to subside, and I came to myself as if out of a great sickness.
There was something strange in my sensations, something indescribably new and, from its very novelty, incredibly sweet.
I knew myself, at the first breath of this new life, to be more wicked, tenfold more wicked, sold a slave to my original evil; and the thought, in that moment, braced and delighted me like wine.
The evil side of my nature, to which I had now transferred the stamping efficacy, was less robust and less developed than the good which I had just deposed.
Again, in the course of my life, which had been, after all, nine-tenths a life of effort, virtue, and control, it had been much less exercised and much less exhausted.
And hence, as I think, it came about that Edward Hyde was so much smaller, slighter, and younger than Henry Jekyll.
Even as good shone upon the countenance of the one, evil was written broadly and plainly on the face of the other.
Evil besides (which I must still believe to be the lethal side of man) had left on that body an imprint of deformity and decay.
And yet when I looked upon that ugly idol in the glass, I was conscious of no repugnance, rather of a leap of welcome.
It seemed natural and human.
In my eyes it bore a livelier image of the spirit, it seemed more express and single, than the imperfect and divided countenance I had been hitherto accustomed to call mine.
And in so far I was doubtless right.
I have observed that when I wore the semblance of Edward Hyde, none could come near to me at first without a visible misgiving of the flesh.
The drug had no discriminating action; it was neither diabolical nor divine; it but shook the doors of the prison-house of my disposition; and like the captives of Philippi, that which stood within ran forth.
At that time my virtue slumbered; my evil, kept awake by ambition, was alert and swift to seize the occasion; and the thing that was projected was Edward Hyde.
Hence, although I had now two characters as well as two appearances, one was wholly evil, and the other was still the old Henry Jekyll, that incongruous compound of whose reformation and improvement I had already learned to despair.
The movement was thus wholly toward the worse. Even at that time, I had not yet conquered my aversion to the dryness of a life of study.
It was on this side that my new power tempted me until I fell in slavery.
I had but to drink the cup, to doff at once the body of the noted professor, and to assume, like a thick cloak, that of Edward Hyde.
I smiled at the notion; it seemed to me at the time to be humorous; and I made my preparations with the most studious care.
I was the first that ever did so for his pleasures.
I was the first that could thus plod in the public eye with a load of genial respectability, and in a moment, like a schoolboy, strip off these lendings and spring headlong into the sea of liberty.
But for me, in my impenetrable mantle, the safety was complete.
Think of it-I did not even exist!
But in the hands of Edward Hyde, they soon began to turn toward the monstrous.
When I would come back from these excursions, I was often plunged into a kind of wonder at my vicarious depravity.
Henry Jekyll stood at times aghast before the acts of Edward Hyde; but the situation was apart from ordinary laws, and insidiously relaxed the grasp of conscience.
It was Hyde, after all, and Hyde alone, that was guilty.
Jekyll was no worse; he woke again to his good qualities seemingly unimpaired; he would even make haste, where it was possible, to undo the evil done by Hyde.
I met with one accident which, as it brought on no consequence, I shall no more than mention.
I smiled to myself, and, in my psychological way began lazily to inquire into the elements of this illusion, occasionally, even as I did so, dropping back into a comfortable morning doze.
I was still so engaged when, in one of my more wakeful moments, my eyes fell upon my hand.
Now the hand of Henry Jekyll (as you have often remarked) was professional in shape and size: it was large, firm, white, and comely.
But the hand which I now saw, clearly enough, in the yellow light of a mid-London morning, lying half shut on the bed-clothes, was lean, corded, knuckly, of a dusky pallor and thickly shaded with a swart growth of hair.
At the sight that met my eyes, my blood was changed into something exquisitely thin and icy.
Yes, I had gone to bed Henry Jekyll, I had awakened Edward Hyde.
How was this to be explained? I asked myself, and then, with another bound of terror-how was it to be remedied?
It might indeed be possible to cover my face; but of what use was that, when I was unable to conceal the alteration in my stature?
And then with an overpowering sweetness of relief, it came back upon my mind that the servants were already used to the coming and going of my second self.
The power of the drug had not been always equally displayed.
All things therefore seemed to point to this: that I was slowly losing hold of my original and better self, and becoming slowly incorporated with my second and worse. Between these two, I now felt I had to choose.
My two natures had memory in common, but all other faculties were most unequally shared between them.
Jekyll had more than a father's interest; Hyde had more than a son's indifference.
To cast in my lot with Jekyll, was to die to those appetites which I had long secretly indulged and had of late begun to pamper.
To cast it in with Hyde, was to die to a thousand interests and aspirations, and to become, at a blow and for ever, despised and friendless.
The bargain might appear unequal; but there was still another consideration in the scales; for while Jekyll would suffer smartingly in the fires of abstinence, Hyde would be not even conscious of all that he had lost.
I made this choice perhaps with some unconscious reservation, for I neither gave up the house in Soho, nor destroyed the clothes of Edward Hyde, which still lay ready in my cabinet.
For two months, however, I was true to my determination; for two months I led a life of such severity as I had never before attained to, and enjoyed the compensations of an approving conscience.
Yet it was by these that I was punished.
My devil had been long caged, he came out roaring.
A mist dispersed; I saw my life to be forfeit; and fled from the scene of these excesses, at once glorying and trembling, my lust of evil gratified and stimulated, my love of life screwed to the topmost peg.
The pangs of transformation had not done tearing him, before Henry Jekyll, with streaming tears of gratitude and remorse, had fallen upon his knees and lifted his clasped hands to God.
As the acuteness of this remorse began to die away, it was succeeded by a sense of joy.
The problem of my conduct was solved.
It was not only a crime, it had been a tragic folly.
I think I was glad to know it; I think I was glad to have my better impulses thus buttressed and guarded by the terrors of the scaffold.
You know yourself how earnestly in the last months of last year, I laboured to relieve suffering; you know that much was done for others, and that the days passed quietly, almost happily for myself.
And yet I was not alarmed; the fall seemed natural, like a return to the old days before I had made discovery.
It was a fine, clear, January day, wet under foot where the frost had melted, but cloudless overhead; and the Regent's Park was full of winter chirrupings and sweet with spring odours.
I sat in the sun on a bench; the animal within me licking the chops of memory; the spiritual side a little drowsed, promising subsequent penitence, but not yet moved to begin.
After all, I reflected, I was like my neighbours; and then I smiled, comparing myself with other men, comparing my active goodwill with the lazy cruelty of their neglect.
And at the very moment of that vain-glorious thought, a qualm came over me, a horrid nausea and the most deadly shuddering.
I looked down; my clothes hung formlessly on my shrunken limbs; the hand that lay on my knee was corded and hairy.
I was once more Edward Hyde.
My drugs were in one of the presses of my cabinet; how was I to reach them?
That was the problem that (crushing my temples in my hands) I set myself to solve.
The laboratory door I had closed.
If I sought to enter by the house, my own servants would consign me to the gallows.
I saw I must employ another hand, and thought of Lanyon.
How was he to be reached? how persuaded?
At my appearance (which was indeed comical enough, however tragic a fate these garments covered) the driver could not conceal his mirth.
I gnashed my teeth upon him with a gust of devilish fury; and the smile withered from his face-happily for him-yet more happily for myself, for in another instant I had certainly dragged him from his perch.
Hyde in danger of his life was a creature new to me; shaken with inordinate anger, strung to the pitch of murder, lusting to inflict pain.
He, I say-I cannot say, I. That child of Hell had nothing human; nothing lived in him but fear and hatred.
He walked fast, hunted by his fears, chattering to himself, skulking through the less-frequented thoroughfares, counting the minutes that still divided him from midnight.
Once a woman spoke to him, offering, I think, a box of lights.
A change had come over me.
It was no longer the fear of the gallows, it was the horror of being Hyde that racked me.
I received Lanyon's condemnation partly in a dream; it was partly in a dream that I came home to my own house and got into bed.
I slept after the prostration of the day, with a stringent and profound slumber which not even the nightmares that wrung me could avail to break.
I awoke in the morning shaken, weakened, but refreshed.
It took on this occasion a double dose to recall me to myself; and alas!
Six hours after, as I sat looking sadly in the fire, the pangs returned, and the drug had to be re-administered.
In short, from that day forth it seemed only by a great effort as of gymnastics, and only under the immediate stimulation of the drug, that I was able to wear the countenance of Jekyll.
At all hours of the day and night, I would be taken with the premonitory shudder; above all, if I slept, or even dozed for a moment in my chair, it was always as Hyde that I awakened.
The powers of Hyde seemed to have grown with the sickliness of Jekyll.
And certainly the hate that now divided them was equal on each side.
With Jekyll, it was a thing of vital instinct.
This was the shocking thing; that the slime of the pit seemed to utter cries and voices; that the amorphous dust gesticulated and sinned; that what was dead, and had no shape, should usurp the offices of life.
The hatred of Hyde for Jekyll, was of a different order.
My provision of the salt, which had never been renewed since the date of the first experiment, began to run low.
I sent out for a fresh supply, and mixed the draught; the ebullition followed, and the first change of colour, not the second; I drank it and it was without efficiency.
This, then, is the last time, short of a miracle, that Henry Jekyll can think his own thoughts or see his own face (now how sadly altered!) in the glass.
Nor must I delay too long to bring my writing to an end; for if my narrative has hitherto escaped destruction, it has been by a combination of great prudence and great good luck.
And indeed the doom that is closing on us both, has already changed and crushed him.
Will Hyde die upon the scaffold? or will he find courage to release himself at the last moment?
God knows; I am careless; this is my true hour of death, and what is to follow concerns another than myself.
Here then, as I lay down the pen and proceed to seal up my confession, I bring the life of that unhappy Henry Jekyll to an end.
In this character, it was frequently his fortune to be the last reputable acquaintance and the last good influence in the lives of downgoing men.
Hence, no doubt the bond that united him to Mr. Richard Enfield, his distant kinsman, the well-known man about town.
It was reported by those who encountered them in their Sunday walks, that they said nothing, looked singularly dull and would hail with obvious relief the appearance of a friend.
The street was small and what is called quiet, but it drove a thriving trade on the weekdays.
It was two storeys high; showed no window, nothing but a door on the lower storey and a blind forehead of discoloured wall on the upper; and bore in every feature, the marks of prolonged and sordid negligence.
I gave a few halloa, took to my heels, collared my gentleman, and brought him back to where there was already quite a group about the screaming child.
He was the usual cut and dry apothecary, of no particular age and colour, with a strong Edinburgh accent and about as emotional as a bagpipe.
We told the man we could and would make such a scandal out of this as should make his name stink from one end of London to the other.
And all the time, as we were pitching it in red hot, we were keeping the women off him as best we could for they were as wild as harpies.
I never saw a circle of such hateful faces; and there was the man in the middle, with a kind of black sneering coolness-frightened too, I could see that-but carrying it off, sir, really like Satan.
The figure was stiff; but the signature was good for more than that if it was only genuine.
I gave in the cheque myself, and said I had every reason to believe it was a forgery.
The cheque was genuine." "Tut-tut!" said Mr. Utterson. "I see you feel as I do," said Mr. Enfield.
Blackmail, I suppose; an honest man paying through the nose for some of the capers of his youth.
Black Mail House is what I call the place with the door, in consequence.
But I happen to have noticed his address; he lives in some square or other." "And you never asked about the-place with the door?" said Mr. Utterson. "No, sir; I had a delicacy," was the reply.
No sir, I make it a rule of mine: the more it looks like Queer Street, the less I ask." "A very good rule, too," said the lawyer. "But I have studied the place for myself," continued Mr. Enfield.
I want to ask the name of that man who walked over the child." "Well," said Mr. Enfield, "I can't see what harm it would do.
It was a man of the name of Hyde." "Hm," said Mr. Utterson.
There is something wrong with his appearance; something displeasing, something down-right detestable.
He's an extraordinary looking man, and yet I really can name nothing out of the way.
And it's not want of memory; for I declare I can see him this moment." Mr. Utterson again walked some way in silence and obviously under a weight of consideration.
You are sure he used a key?" he inquired at last. "My dear sir..." began Enfield, surprised out of himself. "Yes, I know," said Utterson; "I know it must seem strange.
If you have been inexact in any point you had better correct it." "I think you might have warned me," returned the other with a touch of sullenness.
I saw him use it not a week ago." Mr. Utterson sighed deeply but said never a word; and the young man presently resumed.
On this night however, as soon as the cloth was taken away, he took up a candle and went into his business room.
There he opened his safe, took from the most private part of it a document endorsed on the envelope as Dr. Jekyll's Will and sat down with a clouded brow to study its contents.
This document had long been the lawyer's eyesore. It offended him both as a lawyer and as a lover of the sane and customary sides of life, to whom the fanciful was the immodest.
And hitherto it was his ignorance of Mr. Hyde that had swelled his indignation; now, by a sudden turn, it was his knowledge.
It was already bad enough when the name was but a name of which he could learn no more.
He might see a reason for his friend's strange preference or bondage (call it which you please) and even for the startling clauses of the will.
It was a fine dry night; frost in the air; the streets as clean as a ballroom floor; the lamps, unshaken by any wind, drawing a regular pattern of light and shadow.
By ten o'clock, when the shops were closed, the by-street was very solitary and, in spite of the low growl of London from all round, very silent.
Mr. Utterson had been some minutes at his post, when he was aware of an odd light footstep drawing near.
He was small and very plainly dressed and the look of him, even at that distance, went somehow strongly against the watcher's inclination.
And then suddenly, but still without looking up, "How did you know me?" he asked. "On your side," said Mr. Utterson "will you do me a favour?" "With pleasure," replied the other.
There must be something else," said the perplexed gentleman.
There _is_ something more, if I could find a name for it.
Will you wait here by the fire, sir? or shall I give you a light in the dining-room?" "Here, thank you," said the lawyer, and he drew near and leaned on the tall fender.
He was ashamed of his relief, when Poole presently returned to announce that Dr. Jekyll was gone out. "I saw Mr. Hyde go in by the old dissecting room door, Poole," he said.
Is that right, when Dr. Jekyll is from home?" "Quite right, Mr. Utterson, sir," replied the servant.
Mr. Hyde has a key." "Your master seems to repose a great deal of trust in that young man, Poole," resumed the other musingly. "Yes, sir, he does indeed," said Poole.
Ah, it must be that; the ghost of some old sin, the cancer of some concealed disgrace: punishment coming, _pede claudo_, years after memory has forgotten and self-love condoned the fault.
And the lawyer, scared by the thought, brooded awhile on his own past, groping in all the corners of memory, lest by chance some Jack-in-the-Box of an old iniquity should leap to light there.
This Master Hyde, if he were studied," thought he, "must have secrets of his own; black secrets, by the look of him; secrets compared to which poor Jekyll's worst would be like sunshine.
Things cannot continue as they are.
Ah, I must put my shoulder to the wheel-if Jekyll will but let me," he added, "if Jekyll will only let me.
But I do sincerely take a great, a very great interest in that young man; and if I am taken away, Utterson, I wish you to promise me that you will bear with him and get his rights for him.
A maid servant living alone in a house not far from the river, had gone upstairs to bed about eleven.
And as she so sat she became aware of an aged beautiful gentleman with white hair, drawing near along the lane; and advancing to meet him, another and very small gentleman, to whom at first she paid less attention.
She had an evil face, smoothed by hypocrisy: but her manners were excellent.
He must have lost his head, or he never would have left the stick or, above all, burned the cheque book.
It was a large room fitted round with glass presses, furnished, among other things, with a cheval-glass and a business table, and looking out upon the court by three dusty windows barred with iron.
The fire burned in the grate; a lamp was set lighted on the chimney shelf, for even in the houses the fog began to lie thickly; and there, close up to the warmth, sat Dr. Jekyll, looking deathly sick.
I was thinking of my own character, which this hateful business has rather exposed." Utterson ruminated awhile; he was surprised at his friend's selfishness, and yet relieved by it.
And now one word more: it was Hyde who dictated the terms in your will about that disappearance?" The doctor seemed seized with a qualm of faintness; he shut his mouth tight and nodded. "I knew it," said Utterson.
You had a fine escape." "I have had what is far more to the purpose," returned the doctor solemnly: "I have had a lesson-O God, Utterson, what a lesson I have had!
The newsboys, as he went, were crying themselves hoarse along the footways: "Special edition. Shocking murder of an M.P.
But there it is; quite in your way: a murderer's autograph." Guest's eyes brightened, and he sat down at once and studied it with passion.
No sir," he said: "not mad; but it is an odd hand." "And by all accounts a very odd writer," added the lawyer. Just then the servant entered with a note. "Is that from Dr. Jekyll, sir?" inquired the clerk.
I thank you, sir;" and the clerk laid the two sheets of paper alongside and sedulously compared their contents.
I understand." But no sooner was Mr. Utterson alone that night, than he locked the note into his safe, where it reposed from that time forward.
And yet when Utterson remarked on his ill looks, it was with an air of great firmness that Lanyon declared himself a doomed man. "I have had a shock," he said, "and I shall never recover.
Utterson ALONE, and in case of his predecease _to be destroyed unread_," so it was emphatically superscribed; and the lawyer dreaded to behold the contents.
I trust you are better." "I am very low, Utterson," replied the doctor drearily, "very low.
You should be out, whipping up the circulation like Mr. Enfield and me. (This is my cousin-Mr. Enfield-Dr. Jekyll.) Come now; get your hat and take a quick turn with us." "You are very good," sighed the other.
They saw it but for a glimpse for the window was instantly thrust down; but that glimpse had been sufficient, and they turned and left the court without a word.
The square, when they got there, was full of wind and dust, and the thin trees in the garden were lashing themselves along the railing.
Poole, who had kept all the way a pace or two ahead, now pulled up in the middle of the pavement, and in spite of the biting weather, took off his hat and mopped his brow with a red pocket-handkerchief.
At the sight of Mr. Utterson, the housemaid broke into hysterical whimpering; and the cook, crying out "Bless God! it's Mr. Utterson," ran forward as if to take him in her arms. "What, what?
Very irregular, very unseemly; your master would be far from pleased." "They're all afraid," said Poole. Blank silence followed, no one protesting; only the maid lifted her voice and now wept loudly. "Hold your tongue!
And then he begged Mr. Utterson to follow him, and led the way to the back garden. "Now, sir," said he, "you come as gently as you can.
All this last week (you must know) him, or it, whatever it is that lives in that cabinet, has been crying night and day for some sort of medicine and cannot get it to his mind.
In the year 18-, Dr. J. purchased a somewhat large quantity from Messrs.
He now begs them to search with most sedulous care, and should any of the same quality be left, forward it to him at once.
He looked up when I came in, gave a kind of cry, and whipped upstairs into the cabinet. It was but for one minute that I saw him, but the hair stood upon my head like quills.
The man paused and passed his hand over his face. "These are all very strange circumstances," said Mr. Utterson, "but I think I begin to see daylight.
You have not forgot, sir, that at the time of the murder he had still the key with him?
O, I know it's not evidence, Mr. Utterson; I'm book-learned enough for that; but a man has his feelings, and I give you my bible-word it was Mr. Hyde!" "Ay, ay," said the lawyer.
Ay truly, I believe you; I believe poor Harry is killed; and I believe his murderer (for what purpose, God alone can tell) is still lurking in his victim's room.
They drew near on tiptoe, turned it on his back and beheld the face of Edward Hyde.
Let us go back to the cabinet." They mounted the stair in silence, and still with an occasional awestruck glance at the dead body, proceeded more thoroughly to examine the contents of the cabinet.
For what did Jekyll"-he caught himself up at the word with a start, and then conquering the weakness-"what could Jekyll want with it?" he said. "You may say that!" said Poole. Next they turned to the business table.
On the desk, among the neat array of papers, a large envelope was uppermost, and bore, in the doctor's hand, the name of Mr. Utterson.
The lawyer unsealed it, and several enclosures fell to the floor.
He cannot have been disposed of in so short a space; he must be still alive, he must have fled!
O, we must be careful.
Poole, my butler, has his orders; you will find him waiting your arrival with a locksmith.
In my extreme distress of mind, I have a morbid fear of misdirecting you; but even if I am in error, you may know the right drawer by its contents: some powders, a phial and a paper book.
Serve me, my dear Lanyon and save "Your friend, "H.J. "P.S.-I had already sealed this up when a fresh terror struck upon my soul.
It is possible that the post-office may fail me, and this letter not come into your hands until to-morrow morning.
But this last was a handy fellow, and after two hour's work, the door stood open.
The phial, to which I next turned my attention, might have been about half full of a blood-red liquor, which was highly pungent to the sense of smell and seemed to me to contain phosphorus and some volatile ether.
The book was an ordinary version book and contained little but a series of dates.
Here were a phial of some salt, and the record of a series of experiments that had led (like too many of Jekyll's investigations) to no end of practical usefulness.
I come here at the instance of your colleague, Dr. Henry Jekyll, on a piece of business of some moment; and I understood...
And it chanced that the direction of my scientific studies, which led wholly towards the mystic and the transcendental, reacted and shed a strong light on this consciousness of the perennial war among my members.
Others will follow, others will outstrip me on the same lines; and I hazard the guess that man will be ultimately known for a mere polity of multifarious, incongruous and independent denizens.
I began to perceive more deeply than it has ever yet been stated, the trembling immateriality, the mistlike transience, of this seemingly so solid body in which we walk attired.
Certain agents I found to have the power to shake and pluck back that fleshly vestment, even as a wind might toss the curtains of a pavilion.
But the temptation of a discovery so singular and profound at last overcame the suggestions of alarm.
Again, in the course of my life, which had been, after all, nine tenths a life of effort, virtue and control, it had been much less exercised and much less exhausted.
And hence, as I think, it came about that Edward Hyde was so much smaller, slighter and younger than Henry Jekyll.
The drug had no discriminating action; it was neither diabolical nor divine; it but shook the doors of the prisonhouse of my disposition; and like the captives of Philippi, that which stood within ran forth.
The movement was thus wholly toward the worse. Even at that time, I had not conquered my aversion to the dryness of a life of study.
I smiled at the notion; it seemed to me at the time to be humourous; and I made my preparations with the most studious care.
I took and furnished that house in Soho, to which Hyde was tracked by the police; and engaged as a housekeeper a creature whom I knew well to be silent and unscrupulous.
I next drew up that will to which you so much objected; so that if anything befell me in the person of Dr. Jekyll, I could enter on that of Edward Hyde without pecuniary loss.
And thus fortified, as I supposed, on every side, I began to profit by the strange immunities of my position. Men have before hired bravos to transact their crimes, while their own person and reputation sat under shelter.
I was the first that could plod in the public eye with a load of genial respectability, and in a moment, like a schoolboy, strip off these lendings and spring headlong into the sea of liberty.
I smiled to myself, and in my psychological way, began lazily to inquire into the elements of this illusion, occasionally, even as I did so, dropping back into a comfortable morning doze.
Now the hand of Henry Jekyll (as you have often remarked) was professional in shape and size; it was large, firm, white and comely.
But the hand which I now saw, clearly enough, in the yellow light of a mid-London morning, lying half shut on the bedclothes, was lean, corded, knuckly, of a dusky pallor and thickly shaded with a swart growth of hair.
How was this to be explained? I asked myself; and then, with another bound of terror-how was it to be remedied?
All things therefore seemed to point to this; that I was slowly losing hold of my original and better self, and becoming slowly incorporated with my second and worse. Between these two, I now felt I had to choose.
To cast it in with Hyde, was to die to a thousand interests and aspirations, and to become, at a blow and forever, despised and friendless.
For two months, however, I was true to my determination; for two months, I led a life of such severity as I had never before attained to, and enjoyed the compensations of an approving conscience.
The veil of self-indulgence was rent from head to foot.
You know yourself how earnestly, in the last months of the last year, I laboured to relieve suffering; you know that much was done for others, and that the days passed quietly, almost happily for myself.
And yet I was not alarmed; the fall seemed natural, like a return to the old days before I had made my discovery.
After all, I reflected, I was like my neighbours; and then I smiled, comparing myself with other men, comparing my active good-will with the lazy cruelty of their neglect.
And at the very moment of that vainglorious thought, a qualm came over me, a horrid nausea and the most deadly shuddering.
He, I say-I cannot say, I.
That child of Hell had nothing human; nothing lived in him but fear and hatred.
He walked fast, hunted by his fears, chattering to himself, skulking through the less frequented thoroughfares, counting the minutes that still divided him from midnight.
It took on this occasion a double dose to recall me to myself; and alas! six hours after, as I sat looking sadly in the fire, the pangs returned, and the drug had to be re-administered.
The hatred of Hyde for Jekyll was of a different order.
I sent out for a fresh supply and mixed the draught; the ebullition followed, and the first change of colour, not the second; I drank it and it was without efficiency.
And indeed the doom that is closing on us both has already changed and crushed him.
[Illustration] THE SONG OF THE LARK By Willa Cather (1915 edition) CONTENTS PART I.
His offices were in the Duke Block, over the drug store. Larry, the doctor's man, had lit the overhead light in the waiting-room and the double student's lamp on the desk in the study.
The isinglass sides of the hard-coal burner were aglow, and the air in the study was so hot that as he came in the doctor opened the door into his little operating-room, where there was no stove.
The waiting room was carpeted and stiffly furnished, something like a country parlor.
The study had worn, unpainted floors, but there was a look of winter comfort about it.
The doctor's flat-top desk was large and well made; the papers were in orderly piles, under glass weights.
Behind the stove a wide bookcase, with double glass doors, reached from the floor to the ceiling.
Dr. Archie was barely thirty.
He was tall, with massive shoulders which he held stiffly, and a large, well-shaped head.
He was a distinguished-looking man, for that part of the world, at least. There was something individual in the way in which his reddish-brown hair, parted cleanly at the side, bushed over his high forehead.
His nose was straight and thick, and his eyes were intelligent.
He wore a curly, reddish mustache and an imperial, cut trimly, which made him look a little like the pictures of Napoleon III.
His hands were large and well kept, but ruggedly formed, and the backs were shaded with crinkly reddish hair.
He wore a blue suit of woolly, wide-waled serge; the traveling men had known at a glance that it was made by a Denver tailor.
The doctor was always well dressed. Dr. Archie turned up the student's lamp and sat down in the swivel chair before his desk.
He sat uneasily, beating a tattoo on his knees with his fingers, and looked about him as if he were bored.
He glanced at his watch, then absently took from his pocket a bunch of small keys, selected one and looked at it.
A contemptuous smile, barely perceptible, played on his lips, but his eyes remained meditative. Behind the door that led into the hall, under his buffalo-skin driving-coat, was a locked cupboard.
This the doctor opened mechanically, kicking aside a pile of muddy overshoes.
Inside, on the shelves, were whiskey glasses and decanters, lemons, sugar, and bitters.
Hearing a step in the empty, echoing hall without, the doctor closed the cupboard again, snapping the Yale lock.
The door of the waiting-room opened, a man entered and came on into the consulting-room. "Good-evening, Mr. Kronborg," said the doctor carelessly.
Sit down." His visitor was a tall, loosely built man, with a thin brown beard, streaked with gray.
He wore a frock coat, a broad-brimmed black hat, a white lawn necktie, and steel rimmed spectacles.
Altogether there was a pretentious and important air about him, as he lifted the skirts of his coat and sat down. "Good-evening, doctor.
Can you step around to the house with me?
I think Mrs. Kronborg will need you this evening.
This was said with profound gravity and, curiously enough, with a slight embarrassment. "Any hurry?" the doctor asked over his shoulder as he went into his operating-room. Mr. Kronborg coughed behind his hand, and contracted his brows.
His face threatened at every moment to break into a smile of foolish excitement.
He controlled it only by calling upon his habitual pulpit manner.
Well, I think it would be as well to go immediately.
Mrs. Kronborg will be more comfortable if you are there.
She has been suffering for some time." The doctor came back and threw a black bag upon his desk.
He wrote some instructions for his man on a prescription pad and then drew on his overcoat.
All ready," he announced, putting out his lamp.
Mr. Kronborg rose and they tramped through the empty hall and down the stairway to the street.
The drug store below was dark, and the saloon next door was just closing.
Every other light on Main Street was out. On either side of the road and at the outer edge of the board sidewalk, the snow had been shoveled into breastworks.
The town looked small and black, flattened down in the snow, muffled and all but extinguished. Overhead the stars shone gloriously.
It was impossible not to notice them.
The air was so clear that the white sand hills to the east of Moonstone gleamed softly.
Following the Reverend Mr. Kronborg along the narrow walk, past the little dark, sleeping houses, the doctor looked up at the flashing night and whistled softly.
He wished he had gone down to Denver to hear Fay Templeton sing "See-Saw.
Then he remembered that he had a personal interest in this family, after all.
They turned into another street and saw before them lighted windows; a low story-and-a-half house, with a wing built on at the right and a kitchen addition at the back, everything a little on the slant-roofs, windows, and doors.
As they approached the gate, Peter Kronborg's pace grew brisker.
His nervous, ministerial cough annoyed the doctor.
Exactly as if he were going to give out a text," he thought.
He drew off his glove and felt in his vest pocket.
Have a troche, Kronborg," he said, producing some.
Very good for a rough throat." "Ah, thank you, thank you.
I was in something of a hurry.
I neglected to put on my overshoes.
Kronborg opened his front door-seemed delighted to be at home again. The front hall was dark and cold; the hatrack was hung with an astonishing number of children's hats and caps and cloaks.
They were even piled on the table beneath the hatrack.
Under the table was a heap of rubbers and overshoes.
While the doctor hung up his coat and hat, Peter Kronborg opened the door into the living-room.
Peter Kronborg's seventh child, a boy, was being soothed and cosseted by his aunt, Mrs. Kronborg was asleep, and the doctor was going home.
But he wanted first to speak to Kronborg, who, coatless and fluttery, was pouring coal into the kitchen stove.
As the doctor crossed the dining-room he paused and listened.
From one of the wing rooms, off to the left, he heard rapid, distressed breathing.
He went to the kitchen door. "One of the children sick in there?" he asked, nodding toward the partition. Kronborg hung up the stove-lifter and dusted his fingers.
I meant to ask you to look at her.
She has a croupy cold.
But in my excitement-Mrs. Kronborg is doing finely, eh, doctor?
Not many of your patients with such a constitution, I expect." "Oh, yes.
The doctor took up the lamp from the kitchen table and unceremoniously went into the wing room.
Two chubby little boys were asleep in a double bed, with the coverlids over their noses and their feet drawn up.
In a single bed, next to theirs, lay a little girl of eleven, wide awake, two yellow braids sticking up on the pillow behind her.
Her face was scarlet and her eyes were blazing. The doctor shut the door behind him.
Feel pretty sick, Thea?" he asked as he took out his thermometer.
Why didn't you call somebody?" She looked at him with greedy affection.
I thought you were here," she spoke between quick breaths.
There is a new baby, isn't there?
Which?" "Which?" repeated the doctor. "Brother or sister?" He smiled and sat down on the edge of the bed.
Brother," he said, taking her hand.
Brothers are better," she murmured as he put the glass tube under her tongue. "Now, be still, I want to count.
Dr. Archie reached for her hand and took out his watch.
When he put her hand back under the quilt he went over to one of the windows-they were both tight shut-and lifted it a little way.
He reached up and ran his hand along the cold, unpapered wall.
Keep under the covers; I'll come back to you in a moment," he said, bending over the glass lamp with his thermometer.
He winked at her from the door before he shut it. Peter Kronborg was sitting in his wife's room, holding the bundle which contained his son.
His air of cheerful importance, his beard and glasses, even his shirt-sleeves, annoyed the doctor.
He beckoned Kronborg into the living-room and said sternly:- "You've got a very sick child in there.
Why didn't you call me before? It's pneumonia, and she must have been sick for several days.
Put the baby down somewhere, please, and help me make up the bed-lounge here in the parlor.
She's got to be in a warm room, and she's got to be quiet. You must keep the other children out.
Here, this thing opens up, I see," swinging back the top of the carpet lounge.
We can lift her mattress and carry her in just as she is.
I don't want to disturb her more than is necessary." Kronborg was all concern immediately.
The two men took up the mattress and carried the sick child into the parlor.
I'll have to go down to my office to get some medicine, Kronborg.
The drug store won't be open. Keep the covers on her.
I won't be gone long.
Nobody was stirring yet, and the cold was bitter.
He was tired and hungry and in no mild humor.
The idea!" he muttered; "to be such an ass at his age, about the seventh!
And to feel no responsibility about the little girl.
The baby would have got into the world somehow; they always do.
But a nice little girl like that-she's worth the whole litter.
She forgot, for the time being, all about the new baby. When she heard the front door open, it occurred to her that the pleasant thing which was going to happen was Dr. Archie himself.
He came in and warmed his hands at the stove.
As he turned to her, she threw herself wearily toward him, half out of her bed.
She would have tumbled to the floor had he not caught her.
He gave her some medicine and went to the kitchen for something he needed.
She drowsed and lost the sense of his being there.
When she opened her eyes again, he was kneeling before the stove, spreading something dark and sticky on a white cloth, with a big spoon; batter, perhaps.
Presently she felt him taking off her nightgown.
He wrapped the hot plaster about her chest. There seemed to be straps which he pinned over her shoulders.
Then he took out a thread and needle and began to sew her up in it.
That, she felt, was too strange; she must be dreaming anyhow, so she succumbed to her drowsiness. Thea had been moaning with every breath since the doctor came back, but she did not know it.
It was perplexing and unsatisfactory, like dreaming.
She wished she could waken up and see what was going on. The doctor thanked God that he had persuaded Peter Kronborg to keep out of the way.
He could do better by the child if he had her to himself. He had no children of his own.
His marriage was a very unhappy one.
As he lifted and undressed Thea, he thought to himself what a beautiful thing a little girl's body was,-like a flower.
It was so neatly and delicately fashioned, so soft, and so milky white.
Thea must have got her hair and her silky skin from her mother.
She was a little Swede, through and through.
Dr. Archie could not help thinking how he would cherish a little creature like this if she were his.
Her hands, so little and hot, so clever, too,-he glanced at the open exercise book on the piano.
When he had stitched up the flaxseed jacket, he wiped it neatly about the edges, where the paste had worked out on the skin.
He put on her the clean nightgown he had warmed before the fire, and tucked the blankets about her.
As he pushed back the hair that had fuzzed down over her eyebrows, he felt her head thoughtfully with the tips of his fingers.
No, he couldn't say that it was different from any other child's head, though he believed that there was something very different about her.
Her brows were usually drawn together defiantly, but never when she was with Dr. Archie.
Her affection for him was prettier than most of the things that went to make up the doctor's life in Moonstone. The windows grew gray.
He heard a tramping on the attic floor, on the back stairs, then cries: "Give me my shirt!
On the contrary, after that she recovered very rapidly.
The sunlight was pouring in over her shoulders, the baby was asleep on a pillow in a big rocking-chair beside her.
Whenever he stirred, she put out her hand and rocked him.
Nothing of him was visible but a flushed, puffy forehead and an uncompromisingly big, bald cranium.
The door into her mother's room stood open, and Mrs. Kronborg was sitting up in bed darning stockings.
She was a short, stalwart woman, with a short neck and a determined-looking head.
Her skin was very fair, her face calm and unwrinkled, and her yellow hair, braided down her back as she lay in bed, still looked like a girl's.
She was a woman whom Dr. Archie respected; active, practical, unruffled; goodhumored, but determined. Exactly the sort of woman to take care of a flighty preacher.
She had brought her husband some property, too,-one fourth of her father's broad acres in Nebraska,-but this she kept in her own name.
She had profound respect for her husband's erudition and eloquence.
But for all this, she had no confidence in his administration of worldly affairs.
It was her work to keep their bodies, their clothes, and their conduct in some sort of order, and this she accomplished with a success that was a source of wonder to her neighbors.
As she used to remark, and her husband admiringly to echo, she "had never lost one.
More modern views would not have startled her; they would simply have seemed foolish-thin chatter, like the boasts of the men who built the tower of Babel, or like Axel's plan to breed ostriches in the chicken yard.
From what evidence Mrs. Kronborg formed her opinions on this and other matters, it would have been difficult to say, but once formed, they were unchangeable.
She would no more have questioned her convictions than she would have questioned revelation.
The arrival of a new baby meant a revision of her entire domestic schedule, and as she drove her needle along she had been working out new sleeping arrangements and cleaning days.
The doctor had entered the house without knocking, after making noise enough in the hall to prepare his patients.
She wanted him in there for company." Before the doctor picked up the baby, he put a yellow paper bag down on Thea's coverlid and winked at her.
They had a code of winks and grimaces.
When he went in to chat with her mother, Thea opened the bag cautiously, trying to keep it from crackling.
She drew out a long bunch of white grapes, with a little of the sawdust in which they had been packed still clinging to them.
They were called Malaga grapes in Moonstone, and once or twice during the winter the leading grocer got a keg of them.
They were used mainly for table decoration, about Christmas-time.
Thea had never had more than one grape at a time before.
When the doctor came back she was holding the almost transparent fruit up in the sunlight, feeling the pale-green skins softly with the tips of her fingers.
And how's Thea feeling to-day?" He was quite as shy as his patient, especially when a third person overheard his conversation.
Big and handsome and superior to his fellow townsmen as Dr. Archie was, he was seldom at his ease, and like Peter Kronborg he often dodged behind a professional manner.
There was sometimes a contraction of embarrassment and self consciousness all over his big body, which made him awkward-likely to stumble, to kick up rugs, or to knock over chairs.
If any one was very sick, he forgot himself, but he had a clumsy touch in convalescent gossip. Thea curled up on her side and looked at him with pleasure.
All right. I like to be sick.
I have more fun then than other times." "How's that?" "I don't have to go to school, and I don't have to practice.
I can read all I want to, and have good things,"-she patted the grapes.
I had lots of fun that time I mashed my finger and you wouldn't let Professor Wunsch make me practice.
Only I had to do left hand, even then.
I think that was mean." The doctor took her hand and examined the forefinger, where the nail had grown back a little crooked.
You mustn't trim it down close at the corner there, and then it will grow straight.
You won't want it crooked when you're a big girl and wear rings and have sweethearts." She made a mocking little face at him and looked at his new scarf-pin. "That's the prettiest one you ev-ER had.
I wish you'd stay a long while and let me look at it.
What is it?" Dr. Archie laughed.
Spanish Johnny brought it up for me from Chihuahua in his shoe.
I had it set in Denver, and I wore it to-day for your benefit." Thea had a curious passion for jewelry.
She wanted every shining stone she saw, and in summer she was always going off into the sand hills to hunt for crystals and agates and bits of pink chalcedony.
She had two cigar boxes full of stones that she had found or traded for, and she imagined that they were of enormous value.
She was always planning how she would have them set. "What are you reading?
The doctor reached under the covers and pulled out a book of Byron's poems.
Do you like this?" She looked confused, turned over a few pages rapidly, and pointed to "My native land, good-night.
That," she said sheepishly. "How about 'Maid of Athens'?" She blushed and looked at him suspiciously.
I like 'There was a sound of revelry,'" she muttered. The doctor laughed and closed the book.
It was clumsily bound in padded leather and had been presented to the Reverend Peter Kronborg by his Sunday-School class as an ornament for his parlor table. "Come into the office some day, and I'll lend you a nice book.
You can skip the parts you don't understand.
You can read it in vacation. Perhaps you'll be able to understand all of it by then." Thea frowned and looked fretfully toward the piano.
In vacation I have to practice four hours every day, and then there'll be Thor to take care of.
She pronounced it "Tor." "Thor?
Oh, you've named the baby Thor?" exclaimed the doctor. Thea frowned again, still more fiercely, and said quickly, "That's a nice name, only maybe it's a little-old fashioned.
He always spoke of "the infant Saviour," "our Heavenly Father," etc. The poor man had no natural, spontaneous human speech.
If he had his sincere moments, they were perforce inarticulate.
Probably a good deal of his pretentiousness was due to the fact that he habitually expressed himself in a book learned language, wholly remote from anything personal, native, or homely.
Mrs. Kronborg spoke Swedish to her own sisters and to her sister-in-law Tillie, and colloquial English to her neighbors.
Thea, who had a rather sensitive ear, until she went to school never spoke at all, except in monosyllables, and her mother was convinced that she was tongue-tied. She was still inept in speech for a child so intelligent.
He'll be sick himself, trotting around in this slush with no overcoat or overshoes." "He's poor," said Thea simply. The doctor sighed.
I'm afraid he's worse than that.
Is he always all right when you take your lessons?
Never acts as if he'd been drinking?" Thea looked angry and spoke excitedly.
I don't care if he does drink; he's old and poor.
Her voice shook a little. Mrs. Kronborg spoke up from the next room.
He's a good teacher, doctor.
It's good for us he does drink.
He'd never be in a little place like this if he didn't have some weakness.
These women that teach music around here don't know nothing.
I wouldn't have my child wasting time with them.
If Professor Wunsch goes away, Thea'll have nobody to take from.
He's careful with his scholars; he don't use bad language.
Mrs. Kohler is always present when Thea takes her lesson.
It's all right." Mrs. Kronborg spoke calmly and judicially.
One could see that she had thought the matter out before. "I'm glad to hear that, Mrs. Kronborg.
I wish we could get the old man off his bottle and keep him tidy.
Do you suppose if I gave you an old overcoat you could get him to wear it?
The doctor went to the bedroom door and Mrs. Kronborg looked up from her darning. "Why, yes, I guess he'd be glad of it.
He'll take most anything from me.
He won't buy clothes, but I guess he'd wear 'em if he had 'em.
I've never had any clothes to give him, having so many to make over for." "I'll have Larry bring the coat around to-night.
You aren't cross with me, Thea?" taking her hand. Thea grinned warmly.
Not if you give Professor Wunsch a coat-and things," she tapped the grapes significantly.
There, beside a soft-coal stove, the younger children of the family undressed at night and dressed in the morning.
The older daughter, Anna, and the two big boys slept upstairs, where the rooms were theoretically warmed by stovepipes from below.
Their winter underwear was a trial to all the children, but it was bitterest to Thea because she happened to have the most sensitive skin.
While she was tugging it on, her Aunt Tillie brought in warm water from the boiler and filled the tin pitcher.
Thea washed her face, brushed and braided her hair, and got into her blue cashmere dress.
Over this she buttoned a long apron, with sleeves, which would not be removed until she put on her cloak to go to school.
Gunner and Axel, on the soap box behind the stove, had their usual quarrel about which should wear the tightest stockings, but they exchanged reproaches in low tones, for they were wholesomely afraid of Mrs. Kronborg's rawhide whip.
She did not chastise her children often, but she did it thoroughly.
Mrs. Kronborg would have made a good chess player; she had a head for moves and positions. Anna, the elder daughter, was her mother's lieutenant.
All the children knew that they must obey Anna, who was an obstinate contender for proprieties and not always fair minded.
To see the young Kronborgs headed for Sunday School was like watching a military drill.
Mrs. Kronborg let her children's minds alone.
She did not pry into their thoughts or nag them.
She respected them as individuals, and outside of the house they had a great deal of liberty.
But their communal life was definitely ordered. In the winter the children breakfasted in the kitchen; Gus and Charley and Anna first, while the younger children were dressing.
Gus was nineteen and was a clerk in a dry-goods store.
Charley, eighteen months younger, worked in a feed store.
They left the house by the kitchen door at seven o'clock, and then Anna helped her Aunt Tillie get the breakfast for the younger ones.
Without the help of this sister-in-law, Tillie Kronborg, Mrs. Kronborg's life would have been a hard one.
Mrs. Kronborg often reminded Anna that "no hired help would ever have taken the same interest." Mr. Kronborg came of a poorer stock than his wife; from a lowly, ignorant family that had lived in a poor part of Sweden.
His great-grandfather had gone to Norway to work as a farm laborer and had married a Norwegian girl.
This strain of Norwegian blood came out somewhere in each generation of the Kronborgs.
The intemperance of one of Peter Kronborg's uncles, and the religious mania of another, had been alike charged to the Norwegian grandmother.
Tillie was always cheerful, and her tongue was still for scarcely a minute during the day.
She had been cruelly overworked on her father's Minnesota farm when she was a young girl, and she had never been so happy as she was now; had never before, as she said, had such social advantages.
She thought her brother the most important man in Moonstone.
She never missed a church service, and, much to the embarrassment of the children, she always "spoke a piece" at the Sunday-School concerts.
She had a complete set of "Standard Recitations," which she conned on Sundays.
This morning, when Thea and her two younger brothers sat down to breakfast, Tillie was remonstrating with Gunner because he had not learned a recitation assigned to him for George Washington Day at school.
The unmemorized text lay heavily on Gunner's conscience as he attacked his buckwheat cakes and sausage.
He knew that Tillie was in the right, and that "when the day came he would be ashamed of himself." "I don't care," he muttered, stirring his coffee; "they oughtn't to make boys speak.
It's all right for girls.
They like to show off." "No showing off about it.
Boys ought to like to speak up for their country.
And what was the use of your father buying you a new suit, if you're not going to take part in anything?" "That was for Sunday-School.
I'd rather wear my old one, anyhow.
Why didn't they give the piece to Thea?
Gunner grumbled. Tillie was turning buckwheat cakes at the griddle.
Thea can play and sing, she don't need to speak.
But you've got to know how to do something, Gunner, that you have.
What are you going to do when you git big and want to git into society, if you can't do nothing?
Everybody'll say, 'Can you sing?
Then git right out of society.
An' that's what they'll say to you, Mr. Gunner." Gunner and Alex grinned at Anna, who was preparing her mother's breakfast.
They never made fun of Tillie, but they understood well enough that there were subjects upon which her ideas were rather foolish.
There'll be a lot of 'em." "I don't mind, I can work 'em fast.
How about yours, Axel?" Axel was a fat little boy of seven, with pretty, lazy blue eyes.
I don't care," he murmured, buttering his last buckwheat cake without ambition; "too much trouble to copy 'em down.
Jenny Smiley'll let me have hers." The boys were to pull Thea to school on their sled, as the snow was deep.
The three set off together.
Then all the little overcrowded houses were opened wide, and the wind blew through them with sweet, earthy smells of garden-planting.
The town looked as if it had just been washed.
People were out painting their fences.
The cottonwood trees were a-flicker with sticky, yellow little leaves, and the feathery tamarisks were in pink bud.
With the warm weather came freedom for everybody.
People were dug up, as it were.
The very old people, whom one had not seen all winter, came out and sunned themselves in the yard.
Beyond that gulch, on a little rise of ground that faced the open sandy plain, was the Kohlers' house, where Professor Wunsch lived.
Fritz Kohler was the town tailor, one of the first settlers.
He had moved there, built a little house and made a garden, when Moonstone was first marked down on the map.
He had three sons, but they now worked on the railroad and were stationed in distant cities.
As she did not go to church, she did not possess such a thing as a hat.
Year after year she wore the same red hood in winter and a black sunbonnet in summer.
She made her own dresses; the skirts came barely to her shoe-tops, and were gathered as full as they could possibly be to the waistband.
She preferred men's shoes, and usually wore the cast-offs of one of her sons.
She had never learned much English, and her plants and shrubs were her companions.
She lived for her men and her garden.
Beside that sand gulch, she had tried to reproduce a bit of her own village in the Rhine Valley.
She hid herself behind the growth she had fostered, lived under the shade of what she had planted and watered and pruned.
In the blaze of the open plain she was stupid and blind like an owl.
Shade, shade; that was what she was always planning and making.
In seventeen years old Fritz had never had a crony, except the harness-maker and Spanish Johnny. This Wunsch came from God knew where,-followed Spanish Johnny into town when that wanderer came back from one of his tramps.
Wunsch played in the dance orchestra, tuned pianos, and gave lessons.
When Mrs. Kohler rescued him, he was sleeping in a dirty, unfurnished room over one of the saloons, and he had only two shirts in the world.
Once he was under her roof, the old woman went at him as she did at her garden.
She sewed and washed and mended for him, and made him so clean and respectable that he was able to get a large class of pupils and to rent a piano.
As soon as he had money ahead, he sent to the Narrow Gauge lodging-house, in Denver, for a trunkful of music which had been held there for unpaid board.
Mrs. Kronborg was a strange woman.
That word "talent," which no one else in Moonstone, not even Dr. Archie, would have understood, she comprehended perfectly.
To any other woman there, it would have meant that a child must have her hair curled every day and must play in public.
Mrs. Kronborg knew it meant that Thea must practice four hours a day.
Their father had played the oboe in an orchestra in Sweden, before he came to America to better his fortunes.
He had even known Jenny Lind.
Not that the Kohler sons ever so much as looked at a glass of beer.
They were ashamed of their old folks and got out into the world as fast as possible; had their clothes made by a Denver tailor and their necks shaved up under their hair and forgot the past.
Old Fritz and Wunsch, however, indulged in a friendly bottle pretty often.
The garden looked like a relief-map now, and gave no indication of what it would be in August; such a jungle!
Pole beans and potatoes and corn and leeks and kale and red cabbage-there would even be vegetables for which there is no American name.
Mrs. Kohler was always getting by mail packages of seeds from Freeport and from the old country.
There were big sunflowers for the canary bird, tiger lilies and phlox and zinnias and lady's-slippers and portulaca and hollyhocks,-giant hollyhocks.
There is hardly a German family in the most arid parts of Utah, New Mexico, Arizona, but has its oleander trees.
Wunsch was short and stocky, with something rough and bear-like about his shoulders.
His face was a dark, bricky red, deeply creased rather than wrinkled, and the skin was like loose leather over his neck band-he wore a brass collar button but no collar.
His hair was cropped close; iron-gray bristles on a bullet-like head.
His eyes were always suffused and bloodshot.
He had a coarse, scornful mouth, and irregular, yellow teeth, much worn at the edges.
He twirled the stool to the proper height, pointed to it, and sat down in a wooden chair beside Thea. "The scale of B flat major," he directed, and then fell into an attitude of deep attention.
Without a word his pupil set to work. To Mrs. Kohler, in the garden, came the cheerful sound of effort, of vigorous striving.
Unconsciously she wielded her rake more lightly. Occasionally she heard the teacher's voice.
Scale of E minor.... _Weiter, weiter!...
There is only one right way.
The thumb there. _Ein, zwei, drei, vier_," etc. Then for an hour there was no further interruption. At the end of the lesson Thea turned on her stool and leaned her arm on the keyboard.
They usually had a little talk after the lesson. Herr Wunsch grinned.
How soon is it you are free from school?
Then we make ahead faster, eh?" "First week in June.
Then will you give me the 'Invitation to the Dance'?" He shrugged his shoulders.
If you want him, you play him out of lesson hours." "All right.
Thea fumbled in her pocket and brought out a crumpled slip of paper.
What does this mean, please?
I guess it's Latin." Wunsch blinked at the line penciled on the paper.
Wherefrom you get this?" he asked gruffly. "Out of a book Dr. Archie gave me to read.
It's all English but that. Did you ever see it before?" she asked, watching his face. "Yes.
A long time ago," he muttered, scowling.
It recalled the poem, which he had read as a student, and thought very fine.
There were treasures of memory which no lodging-house keeper could attach.
One carried things about in one's head, long after one's linen could be smuggled out in a tuning-bag.
He handed the paper back to Thea.
The "piece-picture," which hung on the wall and nearly covered one whole end of the room, was the handiwork of Fritz Kohler.
Napoleon rode his white horse; Murat, in Oriental dress, a bay charger.
Thea was never tired of examining this work, of hearing how long it had taken Fritz to make it, how much it had been admired, and what narrow escapes it had had from moths and fire.
Silk, Mrs. Kohler explained, would have been much easier to manage than woolen cloth, in which it was often hard to get the right shades.
The reins of the horses, the wheels of the spurs, the brooding eyebrows of the Emperor, Murat's fierce mustaches, the great shakos of the Guard, were all worked out with the minutest fidelity.
Thea's admiration for this picture had endeared her to Mrs. Kohler.
It was now many years since she used to point out its wonders to her own little boys.
As Mrs. Kohler did not go to church, she never heard any singing, except the songs that floated over from Mexican Town, and Thea often sang for her after the lesson was over.
This morning Wunsch pointed to the piano. "On Sunday, when I go by the church, I hear you sing something." Thea obediently sat down on the stool again and began, "_Come, ye Disconsolate_.
Wunsch listened thoughtfully, his hands on his knees. Such a beautiful child's voice!
Old Mrs. Kohler's face relaxed in a smile of happiness; she half closed her eyes.
You believe that?" looking quizzically at Thea. She became confused and pecked nervously at a black key with her middle finger.
I guess so," she murmured. Her teacher rose abruptly.
Remember, for next time, thirds.
He was thinking of youth; of his own, so long gone by, and of his pupil's, just beginning.
He would even have cherished hopes for her, except that he had become superstitious.
He believed that whatever he hoped for was destined not to be; that his affection brought ill-fortune, especially to the young; that if he held anything in his thoughts, he harmed it.
He had taught in music schools in St. Louis and Kansas City, where the shallowness and complacency of the young misses had maddened him.
He had encountered bad manners and bad faith, had been the victim of sharpers of all kinds, was dogged by bad luck.
He had played in orchestras that were never paid and wandering opera troupes which disbanded penniless.
And there was always the old enemy, more relentless than the others.
It was long since he had wished anything or desired anything beyond the necessities of the body.
Now that he was tempted to hope for another, he felt alarmed and shook his head. It was his pupil's power of application, her rugged will, that interested him.
He had lived for so long among people whose sole ambition was to get something for nothing that he had learned not to look for seriousness in anything.
Now that he by chance encountered it, it recalled standards, ambitions, a society long forgot.
What was it she reminded him of?
A yellow flower, full of sunlight, perhaps.
No; a thin glass full of sweet-smelling, sparkling Moselle wine.
To the west of this street lived all the people who were, as Tillie Kronborg said, "in society.
Sylvester Street, the third parallel with Main Street on the west, was the longest in town, and the best dwellings were built along it.
Far out at the north end, nearly a mile from the court-house and its cottonwood grove, was Dr. Archie's house, its big yard and garden surrounded by a white paling fence.
The Methodist Church was in the center of the town, facing the court-house square.
The Kronborgs lived half a mile south of the church, on the long street that stretched out like an arm to the depot settlement. This was the first street west of Main, and was built up only on one side.
The preacher's house faced the backs of the brick and frame store buildings and a draw full of sunflowers and scraps of old iron.
The sidewalk which ran in front of the Kronborgs' house was the one continuous sidewalk to the depot, and all the train men and roundhouse employees passed the front gate every time they came uptown.
The houses were little story-and-a-half cottages, with none of the fussy architectural efforts that marked those on Sylvester Street.
They nestled modestly behind their cottonwoods and Virginia creeper; their occupants had no social pretensions to keep up.
There were no half-glass front doors with doorbells, or formidable parlors behind closed shutters.
Here the old women washed in the back yard, and the men sat in the front doorway and smoked their pipes.
The people on Sylvester Street scarcely knew that this part of the town existed.
She had many friends there, old women who gave her a yellow rose or a spray of trumpet vine and appeased Thor with a cooky or a doughnut.
They called Thea "that preacher's girl," but the demonstrative was misplaced, for when they spoke of Mr. Kronborg they called him "the Methodist preacher." Dr. Archie was very proud of his yard and garden, which he worked himself.
He was the only man in Moonstone who was successful at growing rambler roses, and his strawberries were famous.
Mrs. Archie doesn't know what to do with them all.
Just tell Mrs. Archie I sent you.
She won't bite you." After dinner Thea took a basket, put Thor in his baby buggy, and set out for Dr. Archie's house at the other end of town.
As soon as she came within sight of the house, she slackened her pace.
She thought, too, that neighbors were less likely to drop in if the house was closed up.
She was one of those people who are stingy without motive or reason, even when they can gain nothing by it.
She must have known that skimping the doctor in heat and food made him more extravagant than he would have been had she made him comfortable.
He never came home for lunch, because she gave him such miserable scraps and shreds of food.
No matter how much milk he bought, he could never get thick cream for his strawberries.
Even when he watched his wife lift it from the milk in smooth, ivory-colored blankets, she managed, by some sleight-of-hand, to dilute it before it got to the breakfast table.
The butcher's favorite joke was about the kind of meat he sold Mrs. Archie.
She felt no interest in food herself, and she hated to prepare it.
She used what mind she had in devising shifts to minimize her housework.
She used to tell her neighbors that if there were no men, there would be no housework.
When Mrs. Archie was first married, she had been always in a panic for fear she would have children.
Now that her apprehensions on that score had grown paler, she was almost as much afraid of having dust in the house as she had once been of having children in it.
If dust did not get in, it did not have to be got out, she said.
She would take any amount of trouble to avoid trouble.
Why, nobody knew. Certainly her husband had never been able to make her out.
Such little, mean natures are among the darkest and most baffling of created things. There is no law by which they can be explained.
The ordinary incentives of pain and pleasure do not account for their behavior.
They live like insects, absorbed in petty activities that seem to have nothing to do with any genial aspect of human life. Mrs. Archie, as Mrs. Kronborg said, "liked to gad.
She liked to have her house clean, empty, dark, locked, and to be out of it-anywhere.
A church social, a prayer meeting, a ten-cent show; she seemed to have no preference.
She had then a train of suitors.
She could truly remind Archie that "the boys hung around her.
They thought her very spirited and were always saying, "Oh, that Belle White, she's a case!
She used to play heavy practical jokes which the young men thought very clever. Archie was considered the most promising young man in "the young crowd," so Belle selected him.
She let him see, made him fully aware, that she had selected him, and Archie was the sort of boy who could not withstand such enlightenment.
Belle's family were sorry for him.
On his wedding day her sisters looked at the big, handsome boy-he was twenty-four-as he walked down the aisle with his bride, and then they looked at each other.
His besotted confidence, his sober, radiant face, his gentle, protecting arm, made them uncomfortable.
Well, they were glad that he was going West at once, to fulfill his doom where they would not be onlookers.
Anyhow, they consoled themselves, they had got Belle off their hands. More than that, Belle seemed to have got herself off her hands.
Her reputed prettiness must have been entirely the result of determination, of a fierce little ambition.
Once she had married, fastened herself on some one, come to port,-it vanished like the ornamental plumage which drops away from some birds after the mating season.
The one aggressive action of her life was over.
She began to shrink in face and stature. Of her harum-scarum spirit there was nothing left but the little screech.
Within a few years she looked as small and mean as she was. Thor's chariot crept along.
Thea approached the house unwillingly.
She didn't care about the strawberries, anyhow.
She had come only because she did not want to hurt Dr. Archie's feelings.
She not only disliked Mrs. Archie, she was a little afraid of her.
While Thea was getting the heavy baby-buggy through the iron gate she heard some one call, "Wait a minute!" and Mrs. Archie came running around the house from the back door, her apron over her head.
Wait a minute," she said again, when Thea explained why she had come. She went into her kitchen and Thea sat down on the porch step.
When Mrs. Archie reappeared she carried in her hand a little wooden butter-basket trimmed with fringed tissue paper, which she must have brought home from some church supper.
You'll have to have something to put them in," she said, ignoring the yawning willow basket which stood empty on Thor's feet.
You can have this, and you needn't mind about returning it.
You know about not trampling the vines, don't you?" Mrs. Archie went back into the house and Thea leaned over in the sand and picked a few strawberries.
She was angry, and she was ashamed for Dr. Archie.
She could not help thinking how uncomfortable he would be if he ever found out about it.
Little things like that were the ones that cut him most. She slunk home by the back way, and again almost cried when she told her mother about it. Mrs. Kronborg was frying doughnuts for her husband's supper.
She laughed as she dropped a new lot into the hot grease.
It's wonderful, the way some people are made," she declared.
But I wouldn't let that upset me if I was you.
Think what it would be to live with it all the time.
You look in the black pocketbook inside my handbag and take a dime and go downtown and get an ice-cream soda.
That'll make you feel better.
Thor can have a little of the ice-cream if you feed it to him with a spoon.
He likes it, don't you, son?
She stooped to wipe his chin.
The church stood there because the land was given to the parish by the man who owned the adjoining waste lots, in the hope of making them more salable-"Farrier's Addition," this patch of prairie was called in the clerk's office.
An eighth of a mile beyond the church was a washout, a deep sand-gully, where the board sidewalk became a bridge for perhaps fifty feet.
Just beyond the gully was old Uncle Billy Beemer's grove,-twelve town lots set out in fine, well-grown cottonwood trees, delightful to look upon, or to listen to, as they swayed and rippled in the wind.
Uncle Billy had been one of the most worthless old drunkards who ever sat on a store box and told filthy stories.
One night he played hide-and-seek with a switch engine and got his sodden brains knocked out.
But his grove, the one creditable thing he had ever done in his life, rustled on.
Thea was sitting in a child's express wagon, her feet out behind, kicking the wagon along and steering by the tongue.
Thor was on her lap and she held him with one arm.
He had grown to be a big cub of a baby, with a constitutional grievance, and he had to be continually amused.
Thea took him philosophically, and tugged and pulled him about, getting as much fun as she could under her encumbrance.
Her hair was blowing about her face, and her eyes were squinting so intently at the uneven board sidewalk in front of her that she did not see the doctor until he spoke to her. "Look out, Thea.
You'll steer that youngster into the ditch." The wagon stopped.
Thea released the tongue, wiped her hot, sandy face, and pushed back her hair.
I never ran off but once, and then he didn't get anything but a bump.
He likes this better than a baby buggy, and so do I." "Are you going to kick that cart all the way home?" "Of course.
We take long trips; wherever there is a sidewalk.
It's no good on the road." "Looks to me like working pretty hard for your fun.
Are you going to be busy to-night?
Want to make a call with me?
Spanish Johnny's come home again, all used up.
His wife sent me word this morning, and I said I'd go over to see him to-night.
He's an old chum of yours, isn't he?" "Oh, I'm glad.
She's been crying her eyes out.
When did he come?" "Last night, on Number Six.
Paid his fare, they tell me.
Too sick to beat it.
Thea leaned forward and grabbed the wagon tongue.
Dr. Archie stepped in front of her and blocked the way.
Why don't you make him wait?
What do you let him boss you like that for?" "If he gets mad he throws himself, and then I can't do anything with him.
When he's mad he's lots stronger than me, aren't you, Thor?
Thea spoke with pride, and the idol was appeased.
All the windows were open, but the night was breathless after the sandstorm, and his hair was moist where it hung over his forehead.
He was deeply engrossed in his book and sometimes smiled thoughtfully as he read.
When Thea Kronborg entered quietly and slipped into a seat, he nodded, finished his paragraph, inserted a bookmark, and rose to put the book back into the case.
It was one out of the long row of uniform volumes on the top shelf. "Nearly every time I come in, when you're alone, you're reading one of those books," Thea remarked thoughtfully.
They must be very nice." The doctor dropped back into his swivel chair, the mottled volume still in his hand.
They aren't exactly books, Thea," he said seriously. "They're a city." "A history, you mean?" "Yes, and no. They're a history of a live city, not a dead one.
A Frenchman undertook to write about a whole cityful of people, all the kinds he knew.
And he got them nearly all in, I guess.
You'll like to read it some day, when you're grown up." Thea leaned forward and made out the title on the back, "A Distinguished Provincial in Paris." "It doesn't sound very interesting." "Perhaps not, but it is.
The doctor scrutinized her broad face, low enough to be in the direct light from under the green lamp shade. "Yes," he went on with some satisfaction, "I think you'll like them some day.
You're always curious about people, and I expect this man knew more about people than anybody that ever lived." "City people or country people?" "Both.
People are pretty much the same everywhere." "Oh, no, they're not.
The people who go through in the dining-car aren't like us." "What makes you think they aren't, my girl?
Their clothes?" Thea shook her head.
Her eyes shifted under the doctor's searching gaze and she glanced up at the row of books.
How soon will I be old enough to read them?" "Soon enough, soon enough, little girl.
The doctor patted her hand and looked at her index finger.
The nail's coming all right, isn't it?
But I think that man makes you practice too much.
You have it on your mind all the time.
He had noticed that when she talked to him she was always opening and shutting her hands.
It makes you nervous." "No, he don't," Thea replied stubbornly, watching Dr. Archie return the book to its niche. He took up a black leather case, put on his hat, and they went down the dark stairs into the street.
The summer moon hung full in the sky.
For the time being, it was the great fact in the world.
Beyond the edge of the town the plain was so white that every clump of sage stood out distinct from the sand, and the dunes looked like a shining lake.
The doctor took off his straw hat and carried it in his hand as they walked toward Mexican Town, across the sand. North of Pueblo, Mexican settlements were rare in Colorado then.
This one had come about accidentally.
Spanish Johnny was the first Mexican who came to Moonstone.
He was a painter and decorator, and had been working in Trinidad, when Ray Kennedy told him there was a "boom" on in Moonstone, and a good many new buildings were going up.
During the strike, the master mechanic put a gang of Mexicans to work in the roundhouse.
All the Mexican houses had neat little yards, with tamarisk hedges and flowers, and walks bordered with shells or whitewashed stones.
He is in the back room.
I will make a light.
His profile was strong and severe, like an Indian's.
What was termed his "wildness" showed itself only in his feverish eyes and in the color that burned on his tawny cheeks.
That night he was a coppery green, and his eyes were like black holes.
Now, Thea, you can run outside and wait for me." Thea slipped noiselessly through the dark house and joined Mrs. Tellamantez.
The somber Mexican woman did not seem inclined to talk, but her nod was friendly.
Thea sat down on the warm sand, her back to the moon, facing Mrs. Tellamantez on her doorstep, and began to count the moon flowers on the vine that ran over the house.
Mrs. Tellamantez was always considered a very homely woman.
Her face was of a strongly marked type not sympathetic to Americans.
Such long, oval faces, with a full chin, a large, mobile mouth, a high nose, are not uncommon in Spain.
Mrs. Tellamantez could not write her name, and could read but little.
Her strong nature lived upon itself.
She was chiefly known in Moonstone for her forbearance with her incorrigible husband. Nobody knew exactly what was the matter with Johnny, and everybody liked him.
His popularity would have been unusual for a white man, for a Mexican it was unprecedented.
His talents were his undoing.
He had a high, uncertain tenor voice, and he played the mandolin with exceptional skill.
There was no other way to explain his behavior.
He was a clever workman, and, when he worked, as regular and faithful as a burro.
Then some night he would fall in with a crowd at the saloon and begin to sing.
He would go on until he had no voice left, until he wheezed and rasped.
He always managed to get aboard a freight somewhere.
Once beyond Denver, he played his way southward from saloon to saloon until he got across the border.
Mrs. Tellamantez waited and wept and combed her hair.
She ought to discipline him, people said; she ought to leave him; she had no self-respect.
In short, Mrs. Tellamantez got all the blame.
Even Thea thought she was much too humble.
To-night, as she sat with her back to the moon, looking at the moon flowers and Mrs. Tellamantez's somber face, she was thinking that there is nothing so sad in the world as that kind of patience and resignation.
It was much worse than Johnny's craziness. She even wondered whether it did not help to make Johnny crazy.
People had no right to be so passive and resigned.
She would like to roll over and over in the sand and screech at Mrs. Tellamantez.
She was glad when the doctor came out. The Mexican woman rose and stood respectful and expectant.
The doctor held his hat in his hand and looked kindly at her. "Same old thing, Mrs. Tellamantez.
He's no worse than he's been before. I've left some medicine.
Don't give him anything but toast water until I see him again.
You're a good nurse; you'll get him out.
He glanced about the little garden and wrinkled his brows.
I can't see what makes him behave so.
He's killing himself, and he's not a rowdy sort of fellow.
Can't you tie him up someway? Can't you tell when these fits are coming on?" Mrs. Tellamantez put her hand to her forehead.
The saloon, doctor, the excitement; that is what makes him.
People listen to him, and it excites him." The doctor shook his head.
He's too much for my calculations.
I don't see what he gets out of it." "He is always fooled,"-the Mexican woman spoke rapidly and tremulously, her long under lip quivering. "He is good at heart, but he has no head.
You do not understand in this country, you are progressive.
But he has no judgment, and he is fooled.
She stooped quickly, took up one of the white conch-shells that bordered the walk, and, with an apologetic inclination of her head, held it to Dr. Archie's ear.
Listen, doctor. You hear something in there?
You hear the sea; and yet the sea is very far from here.
You have judgment, and you know that.
But he is fooled. To him, it is the sea itself.
A little thing is big to him.
She bent and placed the shell in the white row, with its fellows.
Thea took it up softly and pressed it to her own ear.
The sound in it startled her; it was like something calling one.
So that was why Johnny ran away. There was something awe-inspiring about Mrs. Tellamantez and her shell. Thea caught Dr. Archie's hand and squeezed it hard as she skipped along beside him back toward Moonstone.
She went home, and the doctor went back to his lamp and his book.
He never left his office until after midnight.
If he did not play whist or pool in the evening, he read.
It had become a habit with him to lose himself. VII Thea's twelfth birthday had passed a few weeks before her memorable call upon Mrs. Tellamantez.
There was a worthy man in Moonstone who was already planning to marry Thea as soon as she should be old enough.
His name was Ray Kennedy, his age was thirty, and he was conductor on a freight train, his run being from Moonstone to Denver.
Ray was a big fellow, with a square, open American face, a rock chin, and features that one would never happen to remember.
He was an aggressive idealist, a freethinker, and, like most railroad men, deeply sentimental.
Thea liked him for reasons that had to do with the adventurous life he had led in Mexico and the Southwest, rather than for anything very personal.
She liked him, too, because he was the only one of her friends who ever took her to the sand hills.
The sand hills were a constant tantalization; she loved them better than anything near Moonstone, and yet she could so seldom get to them.
But the real hills-the Turquoise Hills, the Mexicans called them-were ten good miles away, and one reached them by a heavy, sandy road.
Dr. Archie sometimes took Thea on his long drives, but as nobody lived in the sand hills, he never had calls to make in that direction.
Ray Kennedy was her only hope of getting there. This summer Thea had not been to the hills once, though Ray had planned several Sunday expeditions.
Once Thor was sick, and once the organist in her father's church was away and Thea had to play the organ for the three Sunday services.
But on the first Sunday in September, Ray drove up to the Kronborgs' front gate at nine o'clock in the morning and the party actually set off.
Gunner and Axel went with Thea, and Ray had asked Spanish Johnny to come and to bring Mrs. Tellamantez and his mandolin.
They objected to this, of course, but there were some things about which Thea would have her own way.
As stubborn as a Finn," Mrs. Kronborg sometimes said of her, quoting an old Swedish saying.
When they passed the Kohlers', old Fritz and Wunsch were cutting grapes at the arbor. Thea gave them a businesslike nod.
Wunsch came to the gate and looked after them.
He divined Ray Kennedy's hopes, and he distrusted every expedition that led away from the piano.
Unconsciously he made Thea pay for frivolousness of this sort. As Ray Kennedy's party followed the faint road across the sagebrush, they heard behind them the sound of church bells, which gave them a sense of escape and boundless freedom.
Every rabbit that shot across the path, every sage hen that flew up by the trail, was like a runaway thought, a message that one sent into the desert.
As they went farther, the illusion of the mirage became more instead of less convincing; a shallow silver lake that spread for many miles, a little misty in the sunlight.
Here and there one saw reflected the image of a heifer, turned loose to live upon the sparse sand-grass.
They were magnified to a preposterous height and looked like mammoths, prehistoric beasts standing solitary in the waters that for many thousands of years actually washed over that desert;-the mirage itself may be the ghost of that long-vanished sea.
Beyond the phantom lake lay the line of many-colored hills; rich, sun-baked yellow, glowing turquoise, lavender, purple; all the open, pastel colors of the desert. After the first five miles the road grew heavier.
The horses had to slow down to a walk and the wheels sank deep into the sand, which now lay in long ridges, like waves, where the last high wind had drifted it.
Two hours brought the party to Pedro's Cup, named for a Mexican desperado who had once held the sheriff at bay there.
On the surface of this fluid sand, one could find bits of brilliant stone, crystals and agates and onyx, and petrified wood as red as blood.
Dried toads and lizards were to be found there, too.
Birds, decomposing more rapidly, left only feathered skeletons. After a little reconnoitering, Mrs. Tellamantez declared that it was time for lunch, and Ray took his hatchet and began to cut greasewood, which burns fiercely in its green state.
The little boys dragged the bushes to the spot that Mrs. Tellamantez had chosen for her fire. Mexican women like to cook out of doors. After lunch Thea sent Gunner and Axel to hunt for agates.
If you see a rattlesnake, run.
Don't try to kill it," she enjoined. Gunner hesitated.
Down in the hot country, _muchacha_," turning to Thea, "people keep a pet snake in the house to kill rats and mice.
They call him the house snake.
They keep a little mat for him by the fire, and at night he curl up there and sit with the family, just as friendly!" Gunner sniffed with disgust.
Well, I think that's a dirty Mexican way to keep house; so there!" Johnny shrugged his shoulders.
A Mexican learns to dive below insults or soar above them, after he crosses the border. By this time the south wall of the amphitheater cast a narrow shelf of shadow, and the party withdrew to this refuge.
Ray and Johnny began to talk about the Grand Canyon and Death Valley, two places much shrouded in mystery in those days, and Thea listened intently.
Mrs. Tellamantez took out her drawn-work and pinned it to her knee.
Ray could talk well about the large part of the continent over which he had been knocked about, and Johnny was appreciative. "You been all over, pretty near.
Like a Spanish boy," he commented respectfully. Ray, who had taken off his coat, whetted his pocketknife thoughtfully on the sole of his shoe.
I began to browse around early.
I had a mind to see something of this world, and I ran away from home before I was twelve.
Rustled for myself ever since." "Ran away?
What for?" "Couldn't make it go with my old man, and didn't take to farming.
There were plenty of boys at home.
I wasn't missed." Thea wriggled down in the hot sand and rested her chin on her arm. "Tell Johnny about the melons, Ray, please do!" Ray's solid, sunburned cheeks grew a shade redder, and he looked reproachfully at Thea.
You're stuck on that story, kid.
You like to get the laugh on me, don't you?
That was the finishing split I had with my old man, John.
He had a claim along the creek, not far from Denver, and raised a little garden stuff for market.
One day he had a load of melons and he decided to take 'em to town and sell 'em along the street, and he made me go along and drive for him.
Denver wasn't the queen city it is now, by any means, but it seemed a terrible big place to me; and when we got there, if he didn't make me drive right up Capitol Hill!
Pap got out and stopped at folkses houses to ask if they didn't want to buy any melons, and I was to drive along slow.
The farther I went the madder I got, but I was trying to look unconscious, when the end-gate came loose and one of the melons fell out and squashed.
I couldn't stand it any longer.
I grabbed the whip and lit into that team, and they tore up the hill like jack-rabbits, them damned melons bouncing out the back every jump, the old man cussin' an' yellin' behind and everybody laughin'.
I never looked behind, but the whole of Capitol Hill must have been a mess with them squashed melons.
I didn't stop the team till I got out of sight of town.
Oh, I wish I could have seen those melons fly, Ray!
I'll never see anything as funny as that.
Now, tell Johnny about your first job." Ray had a collection of good stories.
He was observant, truthful, and kindly-perhaps the chief requisites in a good story-teller. Occasionally he used newspaper phrases, conscientiously learned in his efforts at self-instruction, but when he talked naturally he was always worth listening to.
Never having had any schooling to speak of, he had, almost from the time he first ran away, tried to make good his loss.
As a sheep-herder he had worried an old grammar to tatters, and read instructive books with the help of a pocket dictionary.
By the light of many camp-fires he had pondered upon Prescott's histories, and the works of Washington Irving, which he bought at a high price from a book-agent.
Mathematics and physics were easy for him, but general culture came hard, and he was determined to get it.
He was one of the stepchildren of Fortune, and he had very little to show for all his hard work; the other fellow always got the best of it.
He had come in too late, or too early, on several schemes that had made money.
Thea often thought that the nicest thing about Ray was his love for Mexico and the Mexicans, who had been kind to him when he drifted, a homeless boy, over the border.
Johnny asked trustfully. Ray smiled and shook his head.
I've been out on some, John.
I've never been exactly in on any.
So far, I've either held on too long or let go too soon.
But mine's coming to me, all right.
Ray looked reflective. He leaned back in the shadow and dug out a rest for his elbow in the sand.
The narrowest escape I ever had, was in the Bridal Chamber.
If I hadn't let go there, it would have made me rich.
That was a close call." Johnny looked delighted.
She was silver mine, I guess?" "I guess she was!
I put up a few hundred for the prospector, and he gave me a bunch of stock.
Before we'd got anything out of it, my brother-in-law died of the fever in Cuba.
My sister was beside herself to get his body back to Colorado to bury him.
Seemed foolish to me, but she's the only sister I got.
It's expensive for dead folks to travel, and I had to sell my stock in the mine to raise the money to get Elmer on the move.
Two months afterward, the boys struck that big pocket in the rock, full of virgin silver.
They named her the Bridal Chamber.
It wasn't ore, you remember.
It was pure, soft metal you could have melted right down into dollars.
The boys cut it out with chisels.
If old Elmer hadn't played that trick on me, I'd have been in for about fifty thousand.
That was a close call, Spanish." "I recollec'.
When the pocket gone, the town go bust." "You bet.
There was no vein, just a pocket in the rock that had sometime or another got filled up with molten silver.
You'd think there would be more somewhere about, but _nada_.
There's fools digging holes in that mountain yet." When Ray had finished his cigar, Johnny took his mandolin and began Kennedy's favorite, "Ultimo Amor.
It was now three o'clock in the afternoon, the hottest hour in the day.
The narrow shelf of shadow had widened until the floor of the amphitheater was marked off in two halves, one glittering yellow, and one purple.
The little boys had come back and were making a robbers' cave to enact the bold deeds of Pedro the bandit.
Johnny, stretched gracefully on the sand, passed from "Ultimo Amor" to "Fluvia de Oro," and then to "Noches de Algeria," playing languidly. Every one was busy with his own thoughts.
Mrs. Tellamantez was thinking of the square in the little town in which she was born; of the white church steps, with people genuflecting as they passed, and the round-topped acacia trees, and the band playing in the plaza.
Ray Kennedy was thinking of the future, dreaming the large Western dream of easy money, of a fortune kicked up somewhere in the hills,-an oil well, a gold mine, a ledge of copper.
He always told himself, when he accepted a cigar from a newly married railroad man, that he knew enough not to marry until he had found his ideal, and could keep her like a queen.
He believed that in the yellow head over there in the sand he had found his ideal, and that by the time she was old enough to marry, he would be able to keep her like a queen.
He would kick it up from somewhere, when he got loose from the railroad. Thea, stirred by tales of adventure, of the Grand Canyon and Death Valley, was recalling a great adventure of her own.
Early in the summer her father had been invited to conduct a reunion of old frontiersmen, up in Wyoming, near Laramie, and he took Thea along with him to play the organ and sing patriotic songs.
There they stayed at the house of an old ranchman who told them about a ridge up in the hills called Laramie Plain, where the wagon-trails of the Forty-niners and the Mormons were still visible.
The old man even volunteered to take Mr. Kronborg up into the hills to see this place, though it was a very long drive to make in one day.
Thea had begged frantically to go along, and the old rancher, flattered by her rapt attention to his stories, had interceded for her. They set out from Laramie before daylight, behind a strong team of mules.
All the way there was much talk of the Forty-niners.
He told of Indians and buffalo, thirst and slaughter, wanderings in snowstorms, and lonely graves in the desert. The road they followed was a wild and beautiful one.
It led up and up, by granite rocks and stunted pines, around deep ravines and echoing gorges.
The top of the ridge, when they reached it, was a great flat plain, strewn with white boulders, with the wind howling over it.
There was not one trail, as Thea had expected; there were a score; deep furrows, cut in the earth by heavy wagon wheels, and now grown over with dry, whitish grass.
The furrows ran side by side; when one trail had been worn too deep, the next party had abandoned it and made a new trail to the right or left.
They were, indeed, only old wagon ruts, running east and west, and grown over with grass.
But as Thea ran about among the white stones, her skirts blowing this way and that, the wind brought to her eyes tears that might have come anyway.
The old rancher picked up an iron ox-shoe from one of the furrows and gave it to her for a keepsake.
To the west one could see range after range of blue mountains, and at last the snowy range, with its white, windy peaks, the clouds caught here and there on their spurs.
Again and again Thea had to hide her face from the cold for a moment.
The wind never slept on this plain, the old man said.
He had been in the room when the instrument began to click, and all the men there had, without thinking what they were doing, taken off their hats, waiting bareheaded to hear the message translated.
Thea remembered that message when she sighted down the wagon tracks toward the blue mountains.
She told herself she would never, never forget it.
The spirit of human courage seemed to live up there with the eagles.
For long after, when she was moved by a Fourth-of-July oration, or a band, or a circus parade, she was apt to remember that windy ridge. To-day she went to sleep while she was thinking about it.
When Ray wakened her, the horses were hitched to the wagon and Gunner and Axel were begging for a place on the front seat.
The air had cooled, the sun was setting, and the desert was on fire.
Thea contentedly took the back seat with Mrs. Tellamantez.
Throughout October the days were bathed in sunlight and the air was clear as crystal.
The town kept its cheerful summer aspect, the desert glistened with light, the sand hills every day went through magical changes of color.
The scarlet sage bloomed late in the front yards, the cottonwood leaves were bright gold long before they fell, and it was not until November that the green on the tamarisks began to cloud and fade.
There was a flurry of snow about Thanksgiving, and then December came on warm and clear. Thea had three music pupils now, little girls whose mothers declared that Professor Wunsch was "much too severe.
They took their lessons on Saturday, and this, of course, cut down her time for play.
She did not really mind this because she was allowed to use the money-her pupils paid her twenty-five cents a lesson-to fit up a little room for herself upstairs in the half-story.
It was the end room of the wing, and was not plastered, but was snugly lined with soft pine.
The ceiling was so low that a grown person could reach it with the palm of the hand, and it sloped down on either side.
There was only one window, but it was a double one and went to the floor.
In October, while the days were still warm, Thea and Tillie papered the room, walls and ceiling in the same paper, small red and brown roses on a yellowish ground.
Thea bought a brown cotton carpet, and her big brother, Gus, put it down for her one Sunday.
At the head of her bed she had a tall round wooden hat-crate, from the clothing store.
This, standing on end and draped with cretonne, made a fairly steady table for her lantern.
Mrs. Kronborg declared that she "had no patience with American physiology," though the lessons about the injurious effects of alcohol and tobacco were well enough for the boys.
Thea asked Dr. Archie about the window, and he told her that a girl who sang must always have plenty of fresh air, or her voice would get husky, and that the cold would harden her throat.
The important thing, he said, was to keep your feet warm.
On very cold nights Thea always put a brick in the oven after supper, and when she went upstairs she wrapped it in an old flannel petticoat and put it in her bed.
Before daylight, her internal fires went down a little, and she often wakened to find herself drawn up into a tight ball, somewhat stiff in the legs.
But that made it all the easier to get up. The acquisition of this room was the beginning of a new era in Thea's life.
It was one of the most important things that ever happened to her.
Hitherto, except in summer, when she could be out of doors, she had lived in constant turmoil; the family, the day school, the Sunday-School.
The clamor about her drowned the voice within herself. In the end of the wing, separated from the other upstairs sleeping-rooms by a long, cold, unfinished lumber room, her mind worked better.
She thought things out more clearly.
Pleasant plans and ideas occurred to her which had never come before.
She had certain thoughts which were like companions, ideas which were like older and wiser friends.
She left them there in the morning, when she finished dressing in the cold, and at night, when she came up with her lantern and shut the door after a busy day, she found them awaiting her.
He was a faithful soul, and many disappointments had not changed his nature.
He used to remark to Spanish Johnny, "That girl is developing something fine.
Thea was patient with Ray, even in regard to the liberties he took with her name.
Outside the family, every one in Moonstone, except Wunsch and Dr. Archie, called her "Thee-a," but this seemed cold and distant to Ray, so he called her "Thee.
She was always helpless before homely sentiment and usually changed the subject. It was the custom for each of the different Sunday Schools in Moonstone to give a concert on Christmas Eve.
But this year all the churches were to unite and give, as was announced from the pulpits, "a semi-sacred concert of picked talent" at the opera house.
The Moonstone Orchestra, under the direction of Professor Wunsch, was to play, and the most talented members of each Sunday School were to take part in the programme.
Thea was put down by the committee "for instrumental.
This made her indignant, for the vocal numbers were always more popular. Thea went to the president of the committee and demanded hotly if her rival, Lily Fisher, were going to sing.
The president was a big, florid, powdered woman, a fierce W.C.T.U. worker, one of Thea's natural enemies.
Her name was Johnson; her husband kept the livery stable, and she was called Mrs. Livery Johnson, to distinguish her from other families of the same surname.
Mrs. Johnson was a prominent Baptist, and Lily Fisher was the Baptist prodigy.
As she delivered this thrust, her eyes glittered more than the Ancient Mariner's, Thea thought.
Mrs. Johnson disapproved of the way in which Thea was being brought up, of a child whose chosen associates were Mexicans and sinners, and who was, as she pointedly put it, "bold with men.
She so enjoyed an opportunity to rebuke Thea, that, tightly corseted as she was, she could scarcely control her breathing, and her lace and her gold watch chain rose and fell "with short, uneasy motion.
Frowning, Thea turned away and walked slowly homeward.
Lily Fisher was the most stuck-up doll in the world, and it was certainly not like her to recite to be obliging.
Nobody who could sing ever recited, because the warmest applause always went to the singers. However, when the programme was printed in the Moonstone _Gleam_, there it was: "Instrumental solo, Thea Kronborg.
Recitation, Lily Fisher." Because his orchestra was to play for the concert, Mr. Wunsch imagined that he had been put in charge of the music, and he became arrogant.
He insisted that Thea should play a "Ballade" by Reinecke.
When Thea consulted her mother, Mrs. Kronborg agreed with her that the "Ballade" would "never take" with a Moonstone audience.
She advised Thea to play "something with variations," or, at least, "The Invitation to the Dance." "It makes no matter what they like," Wunsch replied to Thea's entreaties.
The dentist was a clumsy, ignorant country boy, and Mr. Kronborg would not hear of Dr. Archie's taking Thea to a dentist in Denver, though Ray Kennedy said he could get a pass for her.
It was the first time she had ever played in the opera house, and she had never before had to face so many people.
Wunsch would not let her play with her notes, and she was afraid of forgetting.
Before the concert began, all the participants had to assemble on the stage and sit there to be looked at.
Thea wore her white summer dress and a blue sash, but Lily Fisher had a new pink silk, trimmed with white swansdown. The hall was packed.
It seemed as if every one in Moonstone was there, even Mrs. Kohler, in her hood, and old Fritz.
The seats were wooden kitchen chairs, numbered, and nailed to long planks which held them together in rows.
As the floor was not raised, the chairs were all on the same level.
The more interested persons in the audience peered over the heads of the people in front of them to get a good view of the stage.
From the platform Thea picked out many friendly faces.
There was Ray Kennedy, with a party of freshly barbered railroad men he had brought along with him. There was Mrs. Kronborg with all the children, even Thor, who had been brought out in a new white plush coat.
When it was over every one breathed more freely.
No committee had the courage to leave Tillie off a programme.
She was accepted as a trying feature of every entertainment.
The Progressive Euchre Club was the only social organization in the town that entirely escaped Tillie.
After Tillie sat down, the Ladies' Quartette sang, "Beloved, it is Night," and then it was Thea's turn. The "Ballade" took ten minutes, which was five minutes too long.
The audience grew restive and fell to whispering.
Thea could hear Mrs. Livery Johnson's bracelets jangling as she fanned herself, and she could hear her father's nervous, ministerial cough.
Thor behaved better than any one else.
When Thea bowed and returned to her seat at the back of the stage there was the usual applause, but it was vigorous only from the back of the house where the Mexicans sat, and from Ray Kennedy's _claqueurs_.
Any one could see that a good-natured audience had been bored. Because Mr. Kronborg's sister was on the programme, it had also been necessary to ask the Baptist preacher's wife's cousin to sing.
She was a "deep alto" from McCook, and she sang, "Thy Sentinel Am I.
After her came Lily Fisher.
Thea's rival was also a blonde, but her hair was much heavier than Thea's, and fell in long round curls over her shoulders. She was the angel-child of the Baptists, and looked exactly like the beautiful children on soap calendars.
Her pink-and-white face, her set smile of innocence, were surely born of a color-press.
She had long, drooping eyelashes, a little pursed-up mouth, and narrow, pointed teeth, like a squirrel's. Lily began:- "_Rock of Ages, cleft for me_, carelessly the maiden sang." Thea drew a long breath.
That was the game; it was a recitation and a song in one.
Lily trailed the hymn through half a dozen verses with great effect.
The Baptist preacher had announced at the beginning of the concert that "owing to the length of the programme, there would be no encores.
But the applause which followed Lily to her seat was such an unmistakable expression of enthusiasm that Thea had to admit Lily was justified in going back.
She was attended this time by Mrs. Livery Johnson herself, crimson with triumph and gleaming-eyed, nervously rolling and unrolling a sheet of music.
She took off her bracelets and played Lily's accompaniment.
Lily had the effrontery to come out with, "She sang the song of Home, Sweet Home, the song that touched my heart.
The Baptists had everything their own way. After the concert Ray Kennedy joined the Kronborgs' party and walked home with them.
Thea was grateful for his silent sympathy, even while it irritated her.
She inwardly vowed that she would never take another lesson from old Wunsch.
She wished that her father would not keep cheerfully singing, "When Shepherds Watched," as he marched ahead, carrying Thor.
She felt that silence would become the Kronborgs for a while.
As a family, they somehow seemed a little ridiculous, trooping along in the starlight.
There were so many of them, for one thing.
Then Tillie was so absurd.
They all hurried in to the glowing stove in the parlor.
The sleepy children were sent to bed.
Mrs. Kronborg and Anna stayed up to fill the stockings. "I guess you're tired, Thea.
Mrs. Kronborg's clear and seemingly indifferent eye usually measured Thea pretty accurately. Thea hesitated.
She glanced at the presents laid out on the dining-room table, but they looked unattractive.
Even the brown plush monkey she had bought for Thor with such enthusiasm seemed to have lost his wise and humorous expression.
She murmured, "All right," to her mother, lit her lantern, and went upstairs. Ray's box contained a hand-painted white satin fan, with pond lilies-an unfortunate reminder.
Thea smiled grimly and tossed it into her upper drawer.
She was not to be consoled by toys.
She undressed quickly and stood for some time in the cold, frowning in the broken looking glass at her flaxen pig-tails, at her white neck and arms.
Her own broad, resolute face set its chin at her, her eyes flashed into her own defiantly.
Lily Fisher was pretty, and she was willing to be just as big a fool as people wanted her to be.
Very well; Thea Kronborg wasn't. She would rather be hated than be stupid, any day.
She popped into bed and read stubbornly at a queer paper book the drug-store man had given her because he couldn't sell it.
She had trained herself to put her mind on what she was doing, otherwise she would have come to grief with her complicated daily schedule.
She read, as intently as if she had not been flushed with anger, the strange "Musical Memories" of the Reverend H.
At last she blew out the lantern and went to sleep.
She had many curious dreams that night.
In one of them Mrs. Tellamantez held her shell to Thea's ear, and she heard the roaring, as before, and distant voices calling, "Lily Fisher!
Lily Fisher!" IX Mr. Kronborg considered Thea a remarkable child; but so were all his children remarkable.
She found her more interesting than her other children, and she took her more seriously, without thinking much about why she did so.
The other children had to be guided, directed, kept from conflicting with one another.
Gunner often got bored with his own clothes or stilts or sled, and wanted Axel's.
But Thea, from the time she was a little thing, had her own routine.
She kept out of every one's way, and was hard to manage only when the other children interfered with her.
Then there was trouble indeed: bursts of temper which used to alarm Mrs. Kronborg. "You ought to know enough to let Thea alone.
She lets you alone," she often said to the other children. One may have staunch friends in one's own family, but one seldom has admirers.
Thea, however, had one in the person of her addle-pated aunt, Tillie Kronborg.
Tillie's mind was a curious machine; when she was awake it went round like a wheel when the belt has slipped off, and when she was asleep she dreamed follies.
But she had intuitions. She knew, for instance, that Thea was different from the other Kronborgs, worthy though they all were.
Her romantic imagination found possibilities in her niece.
People declared that, on this subject, Tillie made them tired. Tillie belonged to a dramatic club that once a year performed in the Moonstone Opera House such plays as "Among the Breakers," and "The Veteran of 1812.
Tillie played character parts, the flirtatious old maid or the spiteful _intrigante_.
She used to study her parts up in the attic at home.
While she was committing the lines, she got Gunner or Anna to hold the book for her, but when she began "to bring out the expression," as she said, she used, very timorously, to ask Thea to hold the book.
Thea was usually-not always-agreeable about it.
Thea would sit on the foot of Tillie's bed, her feet tucked under her, and stare at the silly text.
I wouldn't make so much fuss, there, Tillie," she would remark occasionally; "I don't see the point in it"; or, "What do you pitch your voice so high for?
It don't carry half as well." "I don't see how it comes Thea is so patient with Tillie," Mrs. Kronborg more than once remarked to her husband.
She ain't patient with most people, but it seems like she's got a peculiar patience for Tillie." Tillie always coaxed Thea to go "behind the scenes" with her when the club presented a play, and help her with her make-up.
Thea hated it, but she always went.
She felt as if she had to do it.
There was something in Tillie's adoration of her that compelled her.
There was no family impropriety that Thea was so much ashamed of as Tillie's "acting" and yet she was always being dragged in to assist her.
Tillie simply had her, there.
She didn't know why, but it was so.
There was a string in her somewhere that Tillie could pull; a sense of obligation to Tillie's misguided aspirations.
The saloon-keepers had some such feeling of responsibility toward Spanish Johnny. The dramatic club was the pride of Tillie's heart, and her enthusiasm was the principal factor in keeping it together.
Sick or well, Tillie always attended rehearsals, and was always urging the young people, who took rehearsals lightly, to "stop fooling and begin now.
The young men-bank clerks, grocery clerks, insurance agents-played tricks, laughed at Tillie, and "put it up on each other" about seeing her home; but they often went to tiresome rehearsals just to oblige her.
They were good-natured young fellows.
The club had decided to put on "The Drummer Boy of Shiloh," a very ambitious undertaking because of the many supers needed and the scenic difficulties of the act which took place in Andersonville Prison.
The members of the club consulted together in Tillie's absence as to who should play the part of the drummer boy.
It must be taken by a very young person, and village boys of that age are self-conscious and are not apt at memorizing.
The part was a long one, and clearly it must be given to a girl.
Some members of the club suggested Thea Kronborg, others advocated Lily Fisher.
Lily's partisans urged that she was much prettier than Thea, and had a much "sweeter disposition.
But there was nothing in the least boyish about Lily, and she sang all songs and played all parts alike.
Thea's got the voice, too.
They expected Tillie to be overcome with joy, but, on the contrary, she seemed embarrassed.
I'm afraid Thea hasn't got time for that," she said jerkily.
She is always so busy with her music.
Guess you'll have to get somebody else." The club lifted its eyebrows.
Several of Lily Fisher's friends coughed. Mr. Upping flushed.
The stout woman who always played the injured wife called Tillie's attention to the fact that this would be a fine opportunity for her niece to show what she could do.
Her tone was condescending. Tillie threw up her head and laughed; there was something sharp and wild about Tillie's laugh-when it was not a giggle.
Oh, I guess Thea hasn't got time to do any showing off.
Her time to show off ain't come yet.
I expect she'll make us all sit up when it does.
No use asking her to take the part.
She'd turn her nose up at it.
I guess they'd be glad to get her in the Denver Dramatics, if they could." The company broke up into groups and expressed their amazement.
Of course all Swedes were conceited, but they would never have believed that all the conceit of all the Swedes put together would reach such a pitch as this.
They confided to each other that Tillie was "just a little off, on the subject of her niece," and agreed that it would be as well not to excite her further.
In the middle of the vacation week Thea went to the Kohlers' through a soft, beautiful snowstorm.
The air was a tender blue-gray, like the color on the doves that flew in and out of the white dove-house on the post in the Kohlers' garden.
The sand hills looked dim and sleepy.
The tamarisk hedge was full of snow, like a foam of blossoms drifted over it.
When Thea opened the gate, old Mrs. Kohler was just coming in from the chicken yard, with five fresh eggs in her apron and a pair of old top-boots on her feet.
She called Thea to come and look at a bantam egg, which she held up proudly.
Her bantam hens were remiss in zeal, and she was always delighted when they accomplished anything.
She took Thea into the sitting-room, very warm and smelling of food, and brought her a plateful of little Christmas cakes, made according to old and hallowed formulae, and put them before her while she warmed her feet.
He avoided Thea's eyes when he came in, nodded without speaking, and pointed directly to the piano stool.
He was not so insistent upon the scales as usual, and throughout the little sonata of Mozart's she was studying, he remained languid and absent-minded.
His eyes looked very heavy, and he kept wiping them with one of the new silk handkerchiefs Mrs. Kohler had given him for Christmas.
When the lesson was over he did not seem inclined to talk.
Thea, loitering on the stool, reached for a tattered book she had taken off the music-rest when she sat down.
It was a very old Leipsic edition of the piano score of Gluck's "Orpheus.
She turned over the pages curiously. "Is it nice?" she asked. "It is the most beautiful opera ever made," Wunsch declared solemnly. "You know the story, eh?
How, when she die, Orpheus went down below for his wife?" "Oh, yes, I know.
I didn't know there was an opera about it, though.
Do people sing this now?" "_Aber ja!_ What else?
He drew her from the stool and sat down at the piano.
Turning over the leaves to the third act, he handed the score to Thea.
Listen, I play it through and you get the _rhythmus.
He played through Orpheus' lament, then pushed back his cuffs with awakening interest and nodded at Thea.
It was evidently one that was very dear to him. "_Noch einmal_, alone, yourself.
He dropped his hands on his knees and looked up at Thea.
That is very fine, eh?
There is no such beautiful melody in the world.
You can take the book for one week and learn something, to pass the time.
It is good to know-always. _Euridice, Eu-ri-di-ce, weh dass ich auf Erden bin!_" he sang softly, playing the melody with his right hand. Thea, who was turning over the pages of the third act, stopped and scowled at a passage.
The old German's blurred eyes watched her curiously. "For what do you look so, _immer?_" puckering up his own face.
You see something a little difficult, may-be, and you make such a face like it was an enemy." Thea laughed, disconcerted.
Well, difficult things are enemies, aren't they?
When you have to get them?" Wunsch lowered his head and threw it up as if he were butting something.
He took the book from her and looked at it.
Yes, that is not so easy, there.
This is an old book. They do not print it so now any more, I think.
They leave it out, may-be.
Only one woman could sing that good." Thea looked at him in perplexity. Wunsch went on.
It is written for alto, you see.
A woman sings the part, and there was only one to sing that good in there.
He glanced at her quickly and lifted his red forefinger upright before her eyes. Thea looked at the finger as if she were hypnotized.
Only one?" she asked breathlessly; her hands, hanging at her sides, were opening and shutting rapidly. Wunsch nodded and still held up that compelling finger.
When he dropped his hands, there was a look of satisfaction in his face. "Was she very great?" Wunsch nodded. "Was she beautiful?" "_Aber gar nicht!_ Not at all.
She was ugly; big mouth, big teeth, no figure, nothing at all," indicating a luxuriant bosom by sweeping his hands over his chest.
But for the voice-_ach!_ She have something in there, behind the eyes," tapping his temples. Thea followed all his gesticulations intently.
Was she German?" "No, _Spanisch_.
He looked down and frowned for a moment. "_Ach_, I tell you, she look like the Frau Tellamantez, some-thing.
Long face, long chin, and ugly al-so." "Did she die a long while ago?" "Die?
I guess she is alive somewhere in the world; Paris, may-be.
I hear her when I was a youth.
She is too old to sing now any more." "Was she the greatest singer you ever heard?" Wunsch nodded gravely.
Thea regretfully put on her cloak and hood and set out for home. When Wunsch looked for his score late that afternoon, he found that Thea had not forgotten to take it with her.
He smiled his loose, sarcastic smile, and thoughtfully rubbed his stubbly chin with his red fingers.
When Fritz came home in the early blue twilight the snow was flying faster, Mrs. Kohler was cooking _Hasenpfeffer_ in the kitchen, and the professor was seated at the piano, playing the Gluck, which he knew by heart.
Old Fritz took off his shoes quietly behind the stove and lay down on the lounge before his masterpiece, where the firelight was playing over the walls of Moscow.
He listened, while the room grew darker and the windows duller.
Wunsch always came back to the same thing:- "Ach, ich habe sie verloren, ... Euridice, Euridice!" From time to time Fritz sighed softly.
He, too, had lost a Euridice. XI One Saturday, late in June, Thea arrived early for her lesson.
As she perched herself upon the piano stool,-a wobbly, old-fashioned thing that worked on a creaky screw,-she gave Wunsch a side glance, smiling. "You must not be cross to me to-day.
This is my birthday." "So?" he pointed to the keyboard. After the lesson they went out to join Mrs. Kohler, who had asked Thea to come early, so that she could stay and smell the linden bloom.
It was one of those still days of intense light, when every particle of mica in the soil flashed like a little mirror, and the glare from the plain below seemed more intense than the rays from above.
The sand ridges ran glittering gold out to where the mirage licked them up, shining and steaming like a lake in the tropics.
The sky looked like blue lava, forever incapable of clouds,-a turquoise bowl that was the lid of the desert.
And yet within Mrs. Kohler's green patch the water dripped, the beds had all been hosed, and the air was fresh with rapidly evaporating moisture. The two symmetrical linden trees were the proudest things in the garden.
Their sweetness embalmed all the air.
Under the round leaves, where the waxen yellow blossoms hung, bevies of wild bees were buzzing.
The tamarisks were still pink, and the flower-beds were doing their best in honor of the linden festival.
The white dove-house was shining with a fresh coat of paint, and the pigeons were crooning contentedly, flying down often to drink at the drip from the water tank.
Mrs. Kohler, who was transplanting pansies, came up with her trowel and told Thea it was lucky to have your birthday when the lindens were in bloom, and that she must go and look at the sweet peas.
You know that von Heine? _Im leuchtenden Sommermorgen?_" He looked down at Thea and softly pressed her hand. "No, I don't know it.
You must begin now to know such things.
I'm in my 'teens now.
But how can I know words like that?
I only know what you say at my lessons.
They don't teach German at school.
How can I learn?" "It is always possible to learn when one likes," said Wunsch.
His words were peremptory, as usual, but his tone was mild, even confidential. "There is always a way.
And if some day you are going to sing, it is necessary to know well the German language." Thea stooped over to pick a leaf of rosemary.
How did Wunsch know that, when the very roses on her wall-paper had never heard it?
But am I going to?" she asked, still stooping. "That is for you to say," returned Wunsch coldly.
You would better marry some _Jacob_ here and keep the house for him, may-be?
That is as one desires." Thea flashed up at him a clear, laughing look.
No, I don't want to do that.
You know," she brushed his coat sleeve quickly with her yellow head.
Only how can I learn anything here?
It's so far from Denver." Wunsch's loose lower lip curled in amusement.
Then, as if he suddenly remembered something, he spoke seriously.
Nothing is far and nothing is near, if one desires.
The world is little, people are little, human life is little.
There is only one big thing-desire.
And before it, when it is big, all is little.
It brought Columbus across the sea in a little boat, _und so weiter_.
Wunsch made a grimace, took his pupil's hand and drew her toward the grape arbor.
Hereafter I will more speak to you in German.
Now, sit down and I will teach you for your birthday that little song.
Ask me the words you do not know already.
Now: _Im leuchtenden Sommermorgen_." Thea memorized quickly because she had the power of listening intently. In a few moments she could repeat the eight lines for him.
Wunsch nodded encouragingly and they went out of the arbor into the sunlight again.
As they went up and down the gravel paths between the flowerbeds, the white and yellow butterflies kept darting before them, and the pigeons were washing their pink feet at the drip and crooning in their husky bass.
Over and over again Wunsch made her say the lines to him.
You see it is nothing.
If you learn a great many of the _Lieder_, you will know the German language already. _Weiter, nun_.
It was a soft, rich contralto, and she read quietly; the feeling was in the voice itself, not indicated by emphasis or change of pitch.
She sat down, bending over the cat and teasing his whiskers. "Because he had been awake all night, thinking about her, wasn't it? Maybe that was why he was up so early." Wunsch shrugged his shoulders.
If he think about her all night already, why do you say the flowers remind him?" Thea looked up at him in perplexity.
A flash of comprehension lit her face and she smiled eagerly.
Oh, I didn't mean 'remind' in that way!
I didn't mean they brought her to his mind!
The warm smile left her face.
She lifted her eyebrows in annoyance and looked off at the sand hills. Wunsch persisted.
Why you not answer me?" "Because it would be silly.
You are just trying to make me say things. It spoils things to ask questions." Wunsch bowed mockingly; his smile was disagreeable.
Suddenly his face grew grave, grew fierce, indeed.
He pulled himself up from his clumsy stoop and folded his arms.
But it is necessary to know if you know some things.
Some things cannot be taught.
If you not know in the beginning, you not know in the end.
For a singer there must be something in the inside from the beginning.
I shall not be long in this place, may-be, and I like to know.
Yes,"-he ground his heel in the gravel,-"yes, when you are barely six, you must know that already.
That is the beginning of all things; _der Geist, die Phantasie_.
It must be in the baby, when it makes its first cry, like _der Rhythmus_, or it is not to be.
The dark flush of his face had spread up under the iron-gray bristles on his head.
He was talking to himself, not to Thea.
Insidious power of the linden bloom!
They have nothing inside them," striking his chest with both fists.
Something they can learn, oh, yes, may-be!
Purple and breathless he went out of the arbor and into the house, without saying good-bye. These outbursts frightened Wunsch.
They were always harbingers of ill. Thea got her music-book and stole quietly out of the garden.
She did not go home, but wandered off into the sand dunes, where the prickly pear was in blossom and the green lizards were racing each other in the glittering light.
She was shaken by a passionate excitement.
She did not altogether understand what Wunsch was talking about; and yet, in a way she knew.
She knew, of course, that there was something about her that was different.
But it was more like a friendly spirit than like anything that was a part of herself.
She thought everything to it, and it answered her; happiness consisted of that backward and forward movement of herself.
And when it was there, everything was more interesting and beautiful, even people.
She looked at the sand hills until she wished she _were_ a sand hill.
And yet she knew that she was going to leave them all behind some day.
They would be changing all day long, yellow and purple and lavender, and she would not be there.
From that day on, she felt there was a secret between her and Wunsch. Together they had lifted a lid, pulled out a drawer, and looked at something.
He carried his straw hat in his hand, and kept brushing his hair back from his forehead with a purposeless, unsatisfied gesture.
After he passed Uncle Billy Beemer's cottonwood grove, the sidewalk ran out of the shadow into the white moonlight and crossed the sand gully on high posts, like a bridge.
As the doctor approached this trestle, he saw a white figure, and recognized Thea Kronborg.
He quickened his pace and she came to meet him. "What are you doing out so late, my girl?" he asked as he took her hand. "Oh, I don't know.
What do people go to bed so early for?
I'd like to run along before the houses and screech at them.
Isn't it glorious out here?" The young doctor gave a melancholy laugh and pressed her hand. "Think of it," Thea snorted impatiently.
Nobody up but us and the rabbits!
I've started up half a dozen of 'em.
Look at that little one down there now,"-she stooped and pointed.
In the gully below them there was, indeed, a little rabbit with a white spot of a tail, crouching down on the sand, quite motionless.
It seemed to be lapping up the moonlight like cream.
On the other side of the walk, down in the ditch, there was a patch of tall, rank sunflowers, their shaggy leaves white with dust.
The moon stood over the cottonwood grove.
There was no wind, and no sound but the wheezing of an engine down on the tracks. "Well, we may as well watch the rabbits.
Dr. Archie sat down on the sidewalk and let his feet hang over the edge.
He pulled out a smooth linen handkerchief that smelled of German cologne water.
You must know about all Wunsch can teach you by this time." Thea shook her head.
Oh, no, I don't, Dr. Archie.
He's hard to get at, but he's been a real musician in his time.
Mother says she believes he's forgotten more than the music-teachers down in Denver ever knew." "I'm afraid he won't be around here much longer," said Dr. Archie. "He's been making a tank of himself lately.
He'll be pulling his freight one of these days.
That's the way they do, you know.
I'll be sorry on your account.
He paused and ran his fresh handkerchief over his face.
What the deuce are we all here for anyway, Thea?" he said abruptly. "On earth, you mean?
Thea asked in a low voice. "Well, primarily, yes.
But secondarily, why are we in Moonstone?
It isn't as if we'd been born here.
You were, but Wunsch wasn't, and I wasn't.
I suppose I'm here because I married as soon as I got out of medical school and had to get a practice quick.
If you hurry things, you always get left in the end.
I don't learn anything here, and as for the people-In my own town in Michigan, now, there were people who liked me on my father's account, who had even known my grandfather.
But here it's all like the sand: blows north one day and south the next.
We're all a lot of gamblers without much nerve, playing for small stakes.
The railroad is the one real fact in this country.
That has to be; the world has to be got back and forth.
But the rest of us are here just because it's the end of a run and the engine has to have a drink.
Some day I'll get up and find my hair turning gray, and I'll have nothing to show for it." Thea slid closer to him and caught his arm.
No, no. I won't let you get gray.
You've got to stay young for me.
I'm getting young now, too." Archie laughed.
People aren't young when they're children.
Look at Thor, now; he's just a little old man.
But Gus has a sweetheart, and he's young!" "Something in that!
Dr. Archie patted her head, and then felt the shape of her skull gently, with the tips of his fingers.
When you were little, Thea, I used always to be curious about the shape of your head. You seemed to have more inside it than most youngsters.
I haven't examined it for a long time.
Seems to be the usual shape, but uncommonly hard, some how.
What are you going to do with yourself, anyway?" "I don't know." "Honest, now?
He lifted her chin and looked into her eyes. Thea laughed and edged away from him. "You've got something up your sleeve, haven't you?
Anything you like; only don't marry and settle down here without giving yourself a chance, will you?" "Not much.
See, there's another rabbit!" "That's all right about the rabbits, but I don't want you to get tied up.
Be nice to Wunsch, then.
I don't know what I'd do if he went away." "You've got older friends than Wunsch here, Thea." "I know.
Thea spoke seriously and looked up at the moon, propping her chin on her hand.
But Wunsch is the only one that can teach me what I want to know.
I've got to learn to do something well, and that's the thing I can do best." "Do you want to be a music-teacher?" "Maybe, but I want to be a good one.
I'd like to go to Germany to study, some day.
Wunsch says that's the best place,-the only place you can really learn.
Thea hesitated and then went on nervously, "I've got a book that says so, too.
It's called 'My Musical Memories.
It made me want to go to Germany even before Wunsch said anything.
Of course it's a secret.
You're the first one I've told." Dr. Archie smiled indulgently.
That's a long way off.
Is that what you've got in your hard noddle?
He put his hand on her hair, but this time she shook him off. "No, I don't think much about it.
But you talk about going, and a body has to have something to go _to!_" "That's so.
You're lucky if you have.
Poor Wunsch, now, he hasn't.
What do such fellows come out here for?
He's been asking me about my mining stock, and about mining towns.
What would he do in a mining town?
He wouldn't know a piece of ore if he saw one. He's got nothing to sell that a mining town wants to buy.
Why don't those old fellows stay at home?
We won't need them for another hundred years.
An engine wiper can get a job, but a piano player!
Such people can't make good." "My grandfather Alstrom was a musician, and he made good." Dr. Archie chuckled.
Oh, a Swede can make good anywhere, at anything! You've got that in your favor, miss. Come, you must be getting home." Thea rose.
Yes, I used to be ashamed of being a Swede, but I'm not any more.
Swedes are kind of common, but I think it's better to be _something_." "It surely is!
How tall you are getting.
You come above my shoulder now." "I'll keep on growing, don't you think?
I particularly want to be tall. Yes, I guess I must go home.
I wish there'd be a fire." "A fire?" "Yes, so the fire-bell would ring and the roundhouse whistle would blow, and everybody would come running out.
Sometime I'm going to ring the fire-bell myself and stir them all up." "You'd be arrested." "Well, that would be better than going to bed." "I'll have to lend you some more books." Thea shook herself impatiently.
I can't read every night." Dr. Archie gave one of his low, sympathetic chuckles as he opened the gate for her.
You're beginning to grow up, that's what's the matter with you.
I'll have to keep an eye on you.
Now you'll have to say good-night to the moon." "No, I won't.
I sleep on the floor now, right in the moonlight.
My window comes down to the floor, and I can look at the sky all night." She shot round the house to the kitchen door, and Dr. Archie watched her disappear with a sigh.
He thought of the hard, mean, frizzy little woman who kept his house for him; once the belle of a Michigan town, now dry and withered up at thirty.
If I had a daughter like Thea to watch," he reflected, "I wouldn't mind anything.
I wonder if all of my life's going to be a mistake just because I made a big one then?
Hardly seems fair." Howard Archie was "respected" rather than popular in Moonstone. Everyone recognized that he was a good physician, and a progressive Western town likes to be able to point to a handsome, well-set-up, well-dressed man among its citizens.
But a great many people thought Archie "distant," and they were right.
He had the uneasy manner of a man who is not among his own kind, and who has not seen enough of the world to feel that all people are in some sense his own kind.
He knew that every one was curious about his wife, that she played a sort of character part in Moonstone, and that people made fun of her, not very delicately.
Her own friends-most of them women who were distasteful to Archie-liked to ask her to contribute to church charities, just to see how mean she could be.
The little, lop-sided cake at the church supper, the cheapest pincushion, the skimpiest apron at the bazaar, were always Mrs. Archie's contribution. All this hurt the doctor's pride.
But if there was one thing he had learned, it was that there was no changing Belle's nature.
He had married a mean woman; and he must accept the consequences.
Even in Colorado he would have had no pretext for divorce, and, to do him justice, he had never thought of such a thing.
The tenets of the Presbyterian Church in which he had grown up, though he had long ceased to believe in them, still influenced his conduct and his conception of propriety.
To him there was something vulgar about divorce.
A divorced man was a disgraced man; at least, he had exhibited his hurt, and made it a matter for common gossip.
Respectability was so necessary to Archie that he was willing to pay a high price for it.
As long as he could keep up a decent exterior, he could manage to get on; and if he could have concealed his wife's littleness from all his friends, he would scarcely have complained.
He was more afraid of pity than he was of any unhappiness.
Had there been another woman for whom he cared greatly, he might have had plenty of courage; but he was not likely to meet such a woman in Moonstone. There was a puzzling timidity in Archie's make-up.
The thing that held his shoulders stiff, that made him resort to a mirthless little laugh when he was talking to dull people, that made him sometimes stumble over rugs and carpets, had its counterpart in his mind.
He had not the courage to be an honest thinker.
He could comfort himself by evasions and compromises.
He consoled himself for his own marriage by telling himself that other people's were not much better.
He often told himself that "hanging and wiving go by destiny.
If wiving went badly with a man,-and it did oftener than not,-then he must do the best he could to keep up appearances and help the tradition of domestic happiness along.
The Moonstone gossips, assembled in Mrs. Smiley's millinery and notion store, often discussed Dr. Archie's politeness to his wife, and his pleasant manner of speaking about her.
Nobody has ever got a thing out of him yet," they agreed.
He always bought her presents, and would have liked to send her flowers if she had not repeatedly told him never to send her anything but bulbs,-which did not appeal to him in his expansive moments.
He had married Belle White because he was romantic-too romantic to know anything about women, except what he wished them to be, or to repulse a pretty girl who had set her cap for him.
At medical school, though he was a rather wild boy in behavior, he had always disliked coarse jokes and vulgar stories.
In his old Flint's Physiology there was still a poem he had pasted there when he was a student; some verses by Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes about the ideals of the medical profession.
After so much and such disillusioning experience with it, he still had a romantic feeling about the human body; a sense that finer things dwelt in it than could be explained by anatomy.
He never jested about birth or death or marriage, and did not like to hear other doctors do it.
He was a good nurse, and had a reverence for the bodies of women and children.
When he was tending them, one saw him at his best.
Then his constraint and self-consciousness fell away from him.
He was easy, gentle, competent, master of himself and of other people.
Then the idealist in him was not afraid of being discovered and ridiculed. In his tastes, too, the doctor was romantic.
Though he read Balzac all the year through, he still enjoyed the Waverley Novels as much as when he had first come upon them, in thick leather-bound volumes, in his grandfather's library.
He nearly always read Scott on Christmas and holidays, because it brought back the pleasures of his boyhood so vividly.
Constance de Beverley and the minstrel girl in "The Fair Maid of Perth," not the Duchesse de Langeais, were his heroines.
But better than anything that ever got from the heart of a man into printer's ink, he loved the poetry of Robert Burns.
Death and Dr. Hornbook" and "The Jolly Beggars," Burns's "Reply to his Tailor," he often read aloud to himself in his office, late at night, after a glass of hot toddy.
He used to read "Tam o'Shanter" to Thea Kronborg, and he got her some of the songs, set to the old airs for which they were written.
He loved to hear her sing them.
Sometimes when she sang, "Oh, wert thou in the cauld blast," the doctor and even Mr. Kronborg joined in. Thea never minded if people could not sing; she directed them with her head and somehow carried them along.
Wunsch exclaimed furiously. "I know, but it takes them two years, and Thor is slow," Thea answered reprovingly. The summer went well beyond her hopes, however.
She told herself that it was the best summer of her life, so far.
Nobody was sick at home, and her lessons were uninterrupted.
Now that she had four pupils of her own and made a dollar a week, her practicing was regarded more seriously by the household.
Her mother had always arranged things so that she could have the parlor four hours a day in summer.
Thor proved a friendly ally.
He behaved handsomely about his molars, and never objected to being pulled off into remote places in his cart.
On Saturday morning she set out for the Kohlers' again, but on her way, when she was crossing the ravine, she noticed a woman sitting at the bottom of the gulch, under the railroad trestle.
She turned from her path and saw that it was Mrs. Tellamantez, and she seemed to be doing drawn-work.
Then Thea noticed that there was something beside her, covered up with a purple and yellow Mexican blanket.
She ran up the gulch and called to Mrs. Tellamantez.
The Mexican woman held up a warning finger.
Thea glanced at the blanket and recognized a square red hand which protruded.
The middle finger twitched slightly. "Is he hurt?" she gasped. Mrs. Tellamantez shook her head.
Probably he had been trying to get home and had lost his way.
The blanket looked as if it were over a heap of bricks. "I don't see him breathing any," she said anxiously. "Yes, he breathes," said Mrs. Tellamantez, not lifting her eyes. It seemed to Thea that they waited for hours.
At last they heard voices, and a party of men came down the hill and up the gulch.
Dr. Archie and Fritz Kohler came first; behind were Johnny and Ray, and several men from the roundhouse.
Ray had the canvas litter that was kept at the depot for accidents on the road.
Behind them trailed half a dozen boys who had been hanging round the depot. When Ray saw Thea, he dropped his canvas roll and hurried forward. "Better run along home, Thee.
Ray was indignant that anybody who gave Thea music lessons should behave in such a manner. Thea resented both his proprietary tone and his superior virtue.
I want to know how bad he is.
I'm not a baby!" she exclaimed indignantly, stamping her foot into the sand. Dr. Archie, who had been kneeling by the blanket, got up and came toward Thea, dusting his knees.
He smiled and nodded confidentially. "He'll be all right when we get him home.
But he wouldn't want you to see him like this, poor old chap!
He lay unconscious all day.
Ray Kennedy stayed with him till two o'clock in the afternoon, when he had to go out on his run.
I'm on a confinement case, and I can't be here, but there ought to be somebody.
He may get violent." Mrs. Kohler insisted that she could always do anything with Wunsch, but the doctor shook his head and Spanish Johnny grinned.
He said he would stay.
The doctor laughed at him.
Ten fellows like you couldn't hold him, Spanish, if he got obstreperous; an Irishman would have his hands full.
Guess I'd better put the soft pedal on him.
He pulled out his hypodermic. Spanish Johnny stayed, however, and the Kohlers went to bed.
His face was snarling and savage, and his eyes were crazy.
He had risen to avenge himself, to wipe out his shame, to destroy his enemy.
One look was enough for Johnny.
Wunsch raised a chair threateningly, and Johnny, with the lightness of a _picador_, darted under the missile and out of the open window.
He shot across the gully to get help, meanwhile leaving the Kohlers to their fate. Fritz, upstairs, heard the chair crash upon the stove.
Then he heard doors opening and shutting, and some one stumbling about in the shrubbery of the garden.
He and Paulina sat up in bed and held a consultation.
Fritz slipped from under the covers, and going cautiously over to the window, poked out his head.
It would do no good; he would not be afraid of anything now.
Stay you in the bed, Paulina.
The dresser had lost its casters years ago, but he managed to drag it in front of the door.
He is in the garden.
He will get sick again, may-be." Fritz went back to bed and his wife pulled the quilt over him and made him lie down.
They heard stumbling in the garden again, then a smash of glass. "_Ach, das Mistbeet!_" gasped Paulina, hearing her hotbed shivered. "The poor soul, Fritz, he will cut himself. _Ach!_ what is that?
They both sat up in bed. "_Wieder!
Ach_, What is he doing?" The noise came steadily, a sound of chopping.
Gerechter Himmel_, he is chopping the dove-house down!" Fritz reached her side before she had got her breath again, and poked his head out beside hers.
There, in the faint starlight, they saw a bulky man, barefoot, half dressed, chopping away at the white post that formed the pedestal of the dove-house.
The startled pigeons were croaking and flying about his head, even beating their wings in his face, so that he struck at them furiously with the axe.
In a few seconds there was a crash, and Wunsch had actually felled the dove-house. "Oh, if only it is not the trees next!" prayed Paulina.
In the garden below Wunsch stood in the attitude of a woodman, contemplating the fallen cote.
Suddenly he threw the axe over his shoulder and went out of the front gate toward the town. "The poor soul, he will meet his death!
She ran back to her feather bed and hid her face in the pillow. Fritz kept watch at the window.
No, no, Paulina," he called presently; "I see lanterns coming.
Johnny must have gone for somebody.
Yes, four lanterns, coming along the gulch.
They stop; they must have seen him already.
Now they are under the hill and I cannot see them, but I think they have him.
They will bring him back.
I must dress and go down.
He caught his trousers and began pulling them on by the window.
Yes, here they come, half a dozen men.
And they have tied him with a rope, Paulina!" "_Ach_, the poor man!
To be led like a cow," groaned Mrs. Kohler.
Oh, it is good that he has no wife!
The Baptist preacher took a shot at the fallen man from his pulpit, Mrs. Livery Johnson nodding approvingly from her pew.
The mothers of Wunsch's pupils sent him notes informing him that their daughters would discontinue their music-lessons.
The old maid who had rented him her piano sent the town dray for her contaminated instrument, and ever afterward declared that Wunsch had ruined its tone and scarred its glossy finish.
The Kohlers were unremitting in their kindness to their friend.
When Fritz asked what he was going to sew, he produced the tattered score of "Orpheus" and said he would like to fix it up for a little present.
Fritz carried it over to the shop and stitched it into pasteboards, covered with dark suiting-cloth.
Over the stitches he glued a strip of thin red leather which he got from his friend, the harness-maker.
After Paulina had cleaned the pages with fresh bread, Wunsch was amazed to see what a fine book he had.
Several times he dipped the pen in the ink, and then put it back again in the cigar box in which Mrs. Kohler kept her writing utensils.
His thoughts wandered over a wide territory; over many countries and many years. There was no order or logical sequence in his ideas.
Pictures came and went without reason.
Faces, mountains, rivers, autumn days in other vineyards far away.
The roundhouse whistle woke him from his reveries.
Ah, yes, he was in Moonstone, Colorado.
He frowned for a moment and looked at the book on his knee.
Wunsch. Moonstone, Colo. September 30, 18- Nobody in Moonstone ever found what Wunsch's first name was.
That "A" may have stood for Adam, or August, or even Amadeus; he got very angry if any one asked him. He remained A.
Wunsch to the end of his chapter there.
He said he was coming back some day, but that for the present, since he had lost all his pupils, it would be better for him to try some "new town.
Mrs. Kohler darned and mended all his clothes, and gave him two new shirts she had made for Fritz.
He said that after he got to Denver he would "look around.
He left Moonstone one bright October morning, without telling any one good-bye.
He bought his ticket and went directly into the smoking-car.
When the train was beginning to pull out, he heard his name called frantically, and looking out of the window he saw Thea Kronborg standing on the siding, bareheaded and panting.
Some boys had brought word to school that they saw Wunsch's trunk going over to the station, and Thea had run away from school.
She was at the end of the station platform, her hair in two braids, her blue gingham dress wet to the knees because she had run across lots through the weeds.
Ah, she will run a long way; they cannot stop her!" What was it about the child that one believed in?
Was it her dogged industry, so unusual in this free-and-easy country?
More likely it was because she had both imagination and a stubborn will, curiously balancing and interpenetrating each other. There was something unconscious and unawakened about her, that tempted curiosity.
She had a kind of seriousness that he had not met with in a pupil before.
She hated difficult things, and yet she could never pass one by.
They seemed to challenge her; she had no peace until she mastered them.
She had the power to make a great effort, to lift a weight heavier than herself.
Wunsch hoped he would always remember her as she stood by the track, looking up at him; her broad eager face, so fair in color, with its high cheek-bones, yellow eyebrows and greenishhazel eyes.
It was a face full of light and energy, of the unquestioning hopefulness of first youth.
Yes, she was like a flower full of sun, but not the soft German flowers of his childhood.
When they sat down, Fritz was more silent than usual.
She felt, for the first time in years, that she was tired of her own cooking.
She looked across the glass lamp at her husband and asked him if the butcher liked his new overcoat, and whether he had got the shoulders right in a ready-made suit he was patching over for Ray Kennedy.
As she came back from the hen-house she stopped by one of the linden trees and stood resting her hand on the trunk.
He would never come back, the poor man; she knew that.
He would drift on from new town to new town, from catastrophe to catastrophe.
He would hardly find a good home for himself again.
He, too, was sorry to lose his friend.
There was a big spring there and a creek and a few irrigating ditches.
It was a community of discouraged agriculturists who had disastrously experimented with dry farming.
Mr. Kronborg always drove out one day and back the next, spending the night with one of his parishioners.
Often, when the weather was fine, his wife accompanied him.
To-day they set out from home after the midday meal, leaving Tillie in charge of the house.
Mrs. Kronborg's maternal feeling was always garnered up in the baby, whoever the baby happened to be.
If she had the baby with her, the others could look out for themselves.
Thor, of course, was not, accurately speaking, a baby any longer.
In the matter of nourishment he was quite independent of his mother, though this independence had not been won without a struggle.
Thor was conservative in all things, and the whole family had anguished with him when he was being weaned.
Being the youngest, he was still the baby for Mrs. Kronborg, though he was nearly four years old and sat up boldly on her lap this afternoon, holding on to the ends of the lines and shouting "'mup, 'mup, horsey.
She had a rather unusual capacity for getting the flavor of places and of people.
Although she was so enmeshed in family cares most of the time, she could emerge serene when she was away from them.
For a mother of seven, she had a singularly unprejudiced point of view.
She shifted Thor to her left knee, where he would be more out of the way. "Well, it's about Thea.
Mr. Follansbee came to my study at the church the other day and said they would like to have their two girls take lessons of Thea.
Then I sounded Miss Meyers" (Miss Meyers was the organist in Mr. Kronborg's church) "and she said there was a good deal of talk about whether Thea wouldn't take over Wunsch's pupils.
She said if Thea stopped school she wouldn't wonder if she could get pretty much all Wunsch's class.
People think Thea knows about all Wunsch could teach." Mrs. Kronborg looked thoughtful.
Do you think we ought to take her out of school so young?" "She is young, but next year would be her last year anyway.
She's far along for her age.
And she can't learn much under the principal we've got now, can she?" "No, I'm afraid she can't," his wife admitted.
She frets a good deal and says that man always has to look in the back of the book for the answers.
She hates all that diagramming they have to do, and I think myself it's a waste of time." Mr. Kronborg settled himself back into the seat and slowed the mare to a walk.
You see, it occurs to me that we might raise Thea's prices, so it would be worth her while.
Seventy-five cents for hour lessons, fifty cents for half-hour lessons.
If she got, say two thirds of Wunsch's class, that would bring her in upwards of ten dollars a week.
Better pay than teaching a country school, and there would be more work in vacation than in winter.
Steady work twelve months in the year; that's an advantage.
And she'd be living at home, with no expenses." "There'd be talk if you raised her prices," said Mrs. Kronborg dubiously. "At first there would.
But Thea is so much the best musician in town that they'd all come into line after a while.
I believe Thea can have as many scholars as she can handle, if we set her up a little." "How set her up, do you mean?
Mrs. Kronborg felt a certain reluctance about accepting this plan, though she had not yet had time to think out her reasons. "Well, I've been thinking for some time we could make good use of another room.
We couldn't give up the parlor to her all the time.
If we built another room on the ell and put the piano in there, she could give lessons all day long and it wouldn't bother us.
We could build a clothes-press in it, and put in a bed-lounge and a dresser and let Anna have it for her sleeping-room.
She needs a place of her own, now that she's beginning to be dressy." "Seems like Thea ought to have the choice of the room, herself," said Mrs. Kronborg. "But, my dear, she don't want it.
I sounded her coming home from church on Sunday; asked her if she would like to sleep in a new room, if we built on.
She fired up like a little wild-cat and said she'd made her own room all herself, and she didn't think anybody ought to take it away from her." "She don't mean to be impertinent, father.
She's made decided that way, like my father.
I never have any trouble with the child.
I remember my father's ways and go at her carefully. Thea's all right." Mr. Kronborg laughed indulgently and pinched Thor's full cheek.
Oh, I didn't mean anything against your girl, mother!
She's all right, but she's a little wild-cat, just the same.
I think Ray Kennedy's planning to spoil a born old maid." "Huh!
She'll get something a good sight better than Ray Kennedy, you see!
Thea's an awful smart girl.
I've seen a good many girls take music lessons in my time, but I ain't seen one that took to it so.
She's got the making of something in her." "I don't deny that, and the sooner she gets at it in a businesslike way, the better.
She's the kind that takes responsibility, and it'll be good for her." Mrs. Kronborg was thoughtful.
In some ways it will, maybe.
But there's a good deal of strain about teaching youngsters, and she's always worked so hard with the scholars she has.
I've often listened to her pounding it into 'em.
I don't want to work her too hard.
Don't you believe it, mother.
Thea is not the marrying kind.
Anna will marry before long and make a good wife, but I don't see Thea bringing up a family.
She's got a good deal of her mother in her, but she hasn't got all.
She's too peppery and too fond of having her own way.
Then she's always got to be ahead in everything.
That kind make good church-workers and missionaries and school teachers, but they don't make good wives.
They fret all their energy away, like colts, and get cut on the wire." Mrs. Kronborg laughed.
Give me the graham crackers I put in your pocket for Thor.
You're a funny man, Peter.
A body wouldn't think, to hear you, you was talking about your own daughters. I guess you see through 'em.
Still, even if Thea ain't apt to have children of her own, I don't know as that's a good reason why she should wear herself out on other people's." "That's just the point, mother.
A girl with all that energy has got to do something, same as a boy, to keep her out of mischief.
If you don't want her to marry Ray, let her do something to make herself independent." "Well, I'm not against it.
It might be the best thing for her.
I wish I felt sure she wouldn't worry.
She nearly cried herself sick about Wunsch's going away.
She's the smartest child of 'em all, Peter, by a long ways." Peter Kronborg smiled.
That's you all over again. Now, I have no favorites; they all have their good points.
But you," with a twinkle, "always did go in for brains." Mrs. Kronborg chuckled as she wiped the cracker crumbs from Thor's chin and fists.
Well, you're mighty conceited, Peter!
But I don't know as I ever regretted it.
I prefer having a family of my own to fussing with other folks' children, that's the truth." Before the Kronborgs reached Copper Hole, Thea's destiny was pretty well mapped out for her.
Mr. Kronborg was always delighted to have an excuse for enlarging the house. Mrs. Kronborg was quite right in her conjecture that there would be unfriendly comment in Moonstone when Thea raised her prices for music-lessons.
She was now in the "high room," as it was called, in next to the highest class, and was studying geometry and beginning Caesar.
She no longer recited her lessons to the teacher she liked, but to the Principal, a man who belonged, like Mrs. Livery Johnson, to the camp of Thea's natural enemies.
He taught school because he was too lazy to work among grown-up people, and he made an easy job of it.
He got out of real work by inventing useless activities for his pupils, such as the "tree-diagramming system.
Thea had spent hours making trees out of "Thanatopsis," Hamlet's soliloquy, Cato on "Immortality.
She agonized under this waste of time, and was only too glad to accept her father's offer of liberty. So Thea left school the first of November.
By the first of January she had eight one-hour pupils and ten half-hour pupils, and there would be more in the summer.
She spent her earnings generously.
She bought a new Brussels carpet for the parlor, and a rifle for Gunner and Axel, and an imitation tiger-skin coat and cap for Thor.
She enjoyed being able to add to the family possessions, and thought Thor looked quite as handsome in his spots as the rich children she had seen in Denver.
Thor was most complacent in his conspicuous apparel.
He could walk anywhere by this time-though he always preferred to sit, or to be pulled in his cart.
He was a blissfully lazy child, and had a number of long, dull plays, such as making nests for his china duck and waiting for her to lay him an egg.
Thea thought him very intelligent, and she was proud that he was so big and burly.
She found him restful, loved to hear him call her "sitter," and really liked his companionship, especially when she was tired.
The new room had been added to the house early in the spring, and Thea had been giving her lessons there since the middle of May.
She liked the personal independence which was accorded her as a wage-earner.
The family questioned her comings and goings very little.
She could go buggy-riding with Ray Kennedy, for instance, without taking Gunner or Axel.
She could go to Spanish Johnny's and sing part songs with the Mexicans, and nobody objected. Thea was still under the first excitement of teaching, and was terribly in earnest about it.
If a pupil did not get on well, she fumed and fretted.
She counted until she was hoarse.
She listened to scales in her sleep.
Wunsch had taught only one pupil seriously, but Thea taught twenty.
The duller they were, the more furiously she poked and prodded them.
With the little girls she was nearly always patient, but with pupils older than herself, she sometimes lost her temper.
One of her mistakes was to let herself in for a calling-down from Mrs. Livery Johnson.
Thea was frightened. She felt she could never bear the disgrace, if such a thing happened. Besides, what would her father say, after he had gone to the expense of building an addition to the house?
Mrs. Johnson demanded an apology to Grace.
Thea said she was willing to make it.
Mrs. Johnson said that hereafter, since she had taken lessons of the best piano teacher in Grinnell, Iowa, she herself would decide what pieces Grace should study.
There's no general dissatisfaction among your scholars.
She just wanted to get in a knock.
I talked to the piano tuner the last time he was here, and he said all the people he tuned for expressed themselves very favorably about your teaching.
I wish you didn't take so much pains with them, myself." "But I have to, Ray.
They've got no ambition," Thea exclaimed irritably.
Jenny Smiley is the only one who isn't stupid.
She can read pretty well, and she has such good hands.
But she don't care a rap about it.
She has no pride." Ray's face was full of complacent satisfaction as he glanced sidewise at Thea, but she was looking off intently into the mirage, at one of those mammoth cattle that are nearly always reflected there.
Do you find it easier to teach in your new room?" he asked. "Yes; I'm not interrupted so much.
Of course, if I ever happen to want to practice at night, that's always the night Anna chooses to go to bed early." "It's a darned shame, Thee, you didn't cop that room for yourself.
I'm sore at the _padre_ about that.
He ought to give you that room.
You could fix it up so pretty." "I didn't want it, honest I didn't.
Father would have let me have it.
I like my own room better.
They need other things more," she muttered.
I brought something to show you. Look here, it came on my birthday.
Wasn't it nice of him to remember?" She took from her pocket a postcard, bent in the middle and folded, and handed it to Ray.
On it was a white dove, perched on a wreath of very blue forget-me-nots, and "Birthday Greetings" in gold letters.
Under this was written, "From A.
Wunsch." Ray turned the card over, examined the postmark, and then began to laugh. "Concord, Kansas.
He has my sympathy!" "Why, is that a poor town?" "It's the jumping-off place, no town at all.
Some houses dumped down in the middle of a cornfield.
You get lost in the corn.
Not even a saloon to keep things going; sell whiskey without a license at the butcher shop, beer on ice with the liver and beefsteak.
I wouldn't stay there over Sunday for a ten-dollar bill." "Oh, dear!
What do you suppose he's doing there?
Maybe he just stopped off there a few days to tune pianos," Thea suggested hopefully. Ray gave her back the card.
He's headed in the wrong direction.
What does he want to get back into a grass country for?
He could always get a job playing in saloons if he was dead broke.
I've figured out that I've got no years of my life to waste in a Methodist country where they raise pork." "We must stop on our way back and show this card to Mrs. Kohler.
She misses him so." "By the way, Thee, I hear the old woman goes to church every Sunday to hear you sing.
Fritz tells me he has to wait till two o'clock for his Sunday dinner these days.
The church people ought to give you credit for that, when they go for you." Thea shook her head and spoke in a tone of resignation.
They'll always go for me, just as they did for Wunsch.
It wasn't because he drank they went for him; not really.
It was something else." "You want to salt your money down, Thee, and go to Chicago and take some lessons.
Then you come back, and wear a long feather and high heels and put on a few airs, and that'll fix 'em.
That's what they like." "I'll never have money enough to go to Chicago.
Mother meant to lend me some, I think, but now they've got hard times back in Nebraska, and her farm don't bring her in anything.
Takes all the tenant can raise to pay the taxes.
Don't let's talk about that.
Ray looked his best out of doors, when his thick red hands were covered by gloves, and the dull red of his sunburned face somehow seemed right in the light and wind.
He looked better, too, with his hat on; his hair was thin and dry, with no particular color or character, "regular Willy-boy hair," as he himself described it.
His eyes were pale beside the reddish bronze of his skin.
He knew she worked hard, that she put up with a great many little annoyances, and that her duties as a teacher separated her more than ever from the boys and girls of her own age.
He did everything he could to provide recreation for her.
He brought her candy and magazines and pineapples-of which she was very fond-from Denver, and kept his eyes and ears open for anything that might interest her. He was, of course, living for Thea.
He had thought it all out carefully and had made up his mind just when he would speak to her.
When she was seventeen, then he would tell her his plan and ask her to marry him.
He would be willing to wait two, or even three years, until she was twenty, if she thought best.
By that time he would surely have got in on something: copper, oil, gold, silver, sheep,-something. Meanwhile, it was pleasure enough to feel that she depended on him more and more, that she leaned upon his steady kindness.
He had the chivalry which is perhaps the proudest possession of his race.
He had never embarrassed her by so much as a glance.
Sometimes, when they drove out to the sand hills, he let his left arm lie along the back of the buggy seat, but it never came any nearer to Thea than that, never touched her.
He often turned to her a face full of pride, and frank admiration, but his glance was never so intimate or so penetrating as Dr. Archie's.
His blue eyes were clear and shallow, friendly, uninquiring.
Yes, with Ray she was safe; by him she would never be discovered! XVI The pleasantest experience Thea had that summer was a trip that she and her mother made to Denver in Ray Kennedy's caboose.
Mrs. Kronborg had been looking forward to this excursion for a long while, but as Ray never knew at what hour his freight would leave Moonstone, it was difficult to arrange.
The call-boy was as likely to summon him to start on his run at twelve o'clock midnight as at twelve o'clock noon.
The first week in June started out with all the scheduled trains running on time, and a light freight business.
His former brakeman had asked to be transferred because, he said, "Kennedy was as fussy about his car as an old maid about her bird-cage.
Muttering that all his brakemen seemed to consider him "easy," Ray went down to his car alone.
He built a fire in the stove and put water on to heat while he got into his overalls and jumper.
Then he set to work with a scrubbing-brush and plenty of soap and "cleaner.
He scrubbed the floor and seats, blacked the stove, put clean sheets on the bunks, and then began to demolish Giddy's picture gallery.
Ray found that his brakemen were likely to have what he termed "a taste for the nude in art," and Giddy was no exception.
Underneath the picture was printed the title, "The Odalisque.
Giddy was under the happy delusion that this title meant something wicked,-there was a wicked look about the consonants,-but Ray, of course, had looked it up, and Giddy was indebted to the dictionary for the privilege of keeping his lady.
If "odalisque" had been what Ray called an objectionable word, he would have thrown the picture out in the first place.
Ray even took down a picture of Mrs. Langtry in evening dress, because it was entitled the "Jersey Lily," and because there was a small head of Edward VII, then Prince of Wales, in one corner.
Albert Edward's conduct was a popular subject of discussion among railroad men in those days, and as Ray pulled the tacks out of this lithograph he felt more indignant with the English than ever.
His good humored, sunburned face seemed fairly to swell with amazement and anger. "That's all right, Giddy," Ray called in a conciliatory tone.
I'll put 'em all up again as I found 'em.
Going to take some ladies down in the car to-morrow." Giddy scowled.
He did not dispute the propriety of Ray's measures, if there were to be ladies on board, but he felt injured.
I suppose you'll expect me to behave like a Y.M.C.A. secretary," he growled.
Then I guess she'll get it," he observed knowingly.
I don't think your musical friend is much on the grub-box.
Has to keep her hands white to tickle the ivories.
Giddy had nothing against Thea, but he felt cantankerous and wanted to get a rise out of Kennedy. "Every man to his own job," Ray replied agreeably, pulling his white shirt on over his head. Giddy emitted smoke disdainfully.
The man that gets her will have to wear an apron and bake the pancakes.
Well, some men like to mess about the kitchen.
He paused, but Ray was intent on getting into his clothes as quickly as possible.
Giddy thought he could go a little further.
I was never much enslaved to hard-boiled eggs, anyhow." "You'll eat 'em to-morrow, all the same.
Ray's tone had a steely glitter as he jumped out of the car, and Giddy stood aside to let him pass.
He knew that Kennedy's next reply would be delivered by hand.
He had once seen Ray beat up a nasty fellow for insulting a Mexican woman who helped about the grub-car in the work train, and his fists had worked like two steel hammers.
Giddy wasn't looking for trouble. At eight o'clock the next morning Ray greeted his ladies and helped them into the car.
Giddy had put on a clean shirt and yellow pig-skin gloves and was whistling his best.
He considered Kennedy a fluke as a ladies' man, and if there was to be a party, the honors had to be done by some one who wasn't a blacksmith at small-talk.
Giddy had, as Ray sarcastically admitted, "a local reputation as a jollier," and he was fluent in gallant speeches of a not too-veiled nature.
He insisted that Thea should take his seat in the cupola, opposite Ray's, where she could look out over the country.
Thea told him, as she clambered up, that she cared a good deal more about riding in that seat than about going to Denver.
Ray was never so companionable and easy as when he sat chatting in the lookout of his little house on wheels.
Good stories came to him, and interesting recollections.
I thought you and Ray might have some housework here for me to look after, but I couldn't improve any on this car." "Oh, we like to keep her neat," returned Giddy glibly, winking up at Ray's expressive back.
If you want to see a clean ice-box, look at this one.
Yes, Kennedy always carries fresh cream to eat on his oatmeal.
The tin cow's good enough for me." "Most of you boys smoke so much that all victuals taste alike to you," said Mrs. Kronborg.
I've got no religious scruples against smoking, but I couldn't take as much interest cooking for a man that used tobacco.
I guess it's all right for bachelors who have to eat round." Mrs. Kronborg took off her hat and veil and made herself comfortable. She seldom had an opportunity to be idle, and she enjoyed it.
She could sit for hours and watch the sage-hens fly up and the jack-rabbits dart away from the track, without being bored.
She wore a tan bombazine dress, made very plainly, and carried a roomy, worn, mother-of-the-family handbag. Ray Kennedy always insisted that Mrs. Kronborg was "a fine-looking lady," but this was not the common opinion in Moonstone.
Ray had lived long enough among the Mexicans to dislike fussiness, to feel that there was something more attractive in ease of manner than in absentminded concern about hairpins and dabs of lace.
He had learned to think that the way a woman stood, moved, sat in her chair, looked at you, was more important than the absence of wrinkles from her skirt.
Ray had, indeed, such unusual perceptions in some directions, that one could not help wondering what he would have been if he had ever, as he said, had "half a chance." He was right; Mrs. Kronborg was a fine-looking woman.
She was short and square, but her head was a real head, not a mere jerky termination of the body.
It had some individuality apart from hats and hairpins.
Her hair, Moonstone women admitted, would have been very pretty "on anybody else.
Frizzy bangs were worn then, but Mrs. Kronborg always dressed her hair in the same way, parted in the middle, brushed smoothly back from her low, white forehead, pinned loosely on the back of her head in two thick braids.
It was growing gray about the temples, but after the manner of yellow hair it seemed only to have grown paler there, and had taken on a color like that of English primroses.
Her eyes were clear and untroubled; her face smooth and calm, and, as Ray said, "strong." Thea and Ray, up in the sunny cupola, were laughing and talking.
Ray got great pleasure out of seeing her face there in the little box where he so often imagined it.
You see the sand blows low, being so heavy, and cuts them out underneath.
Wind and sand are pretty high-class architects.
That's the principle of most of the Cliff-Dweller remains down at Canyon de Chelly.
The sandstorms had dug out big depressions in the face of a cliff, and the Indians built their houses back in that depression." "You told me that before, Ray, and of course you know.
But the geography says their houses were cut out of the face of the living rock, and I like that better." Ray sniffed.
What nonsense does get printed!
It's enough to give a man disrespect for learning.
How could them Indians cut houses out of the living rock, when they knew nothing about the art of forging metals?" Ray leaned back in his chair, swung his foot, and looked thoughtful and happy.
He was in one of his favorite fields of speculation, and nothing gave him more pleasure than talking these things over with Thea Kronborg.
I'll tell you, Thee, if those old fellows had learned to work metals once, your ancient Egyptians and Assyrians wouldn't have beat them very much.
Whatever they did do, they did well.
Their masonry's standing there to-day, the corners as true as the Denver Capitol.
They were clever at most everything but metals; and that one failure kept them from getting across.
It was the quicksand that swallowed 'em up, as a race.
I guess civilization proper began when men mastered metals." Ray was not vain about his bookish phrases.
He did not use them to show off, but because they seemed to him more adequate than colloquial speech.
He felt strongly about these things, and groped for words, as he said, "to express himself.
He had the lamentable American belief that "expression" is obligatory.
He still carried in his trunk, among the unrelated possessions of a railroad man, a notebook on the title-page of which was written "Impressions on First Viewing the Grand Canyon, Ray H.
The pages of that book were like a battlefield; the laboring author had fallen back from metaphor after metaphor, abandoned position after position.
He would have admitted that the art of forging metals was nothing to this treacherous business of recording impressions, in which the material you were so full of vanished mysteriously under your striving hand.
Escaping steam!" he had said to himself, the last time he tried to read that notebook. Thea didn't mind Ray's travel-lecture expressions.
She dodged them, unconsciously, as she did her father's professional palaver.
Well," he said when he returned, "about the aborigines: once or twice I've been with some fellows who were cracking burial mounds.
Always felt a little ashamed of it, but we did pull out some remarkable things.
We got some pottery out whole; seemed pretty fine to me.
I guess their women were their artists.
We found lots of old shoes and sandals made out of yucca fiber, neat and strong; and feather blankets, too." "Feather blankets?
You never told me about them." "Didn't I?
The old fellows-or the squaws-wove a close netting of yucca fiber, and then tied on little bunches of down feathers, overlapping, just the way feathers grow on a bird.
Some of them were feathered on both sides.
You can't get anything warmer than that, now, can you?-or prettier.
What I like about those old aborigines is, that they got all their ideas from nature." Thea laughed.
That means you're going to say something about girls' wearing corsets.
But some of your Indians flattened their babies' heads, and that's worse than wearing corsets." "Give me an Indian girl's figure for beauty," Ray insisted.
And a girl with a voice like yours ought to have plenty of lung-action.
But you know my sentiments on that subject.
I was going to tell you about the handsomest thing we ever looted out of those burial mounds.
It was on a woman, too, I regret to say.
She was preserved as perfect as any mummy that ever came out of the pyramids.
She had a big string of turquoises around her neck, and she was wrapped in a fox-fur cloak, lined with little yellow feathers that must have come off wild canaries.
Can you beat that, now?
The fellow that claimed it sold it to a Boston man for a hundred and fifty dollars." Thea looked at him admiringly.
Oh, Ray, and didn't you get anything off her, to remember her by, even?
She must have been a princess." Ray took a wallet from the pocket of the coat that was hanging beside him, and drew from it a little lump wrapped in worn tissue paper.
In a moment a stone, soft and blue as a robin's egg, lay in the hard palm of his hand.
It was a turquoise, rubbed smooth in the Indian finish, which is so much more beautiful than the incongruous high polish the white man gives that tender stone.
I got this from her necklace.
See the hole where the string went through?
You know how the Indians drill them?
Work the drill with their teeth.
You like it, don't you?
They're just right for you.
Blue and yellow are the Swedish colors.
I'll go into the burial mounds and get you more keepsakes than any girl ever had before.
Ray had planned such an expedition for his wedding journey, and it made his heart thump to see how Thea's eyes kindled when he talked about it.
I've learned more down there about what makes history," he went on, "than in all the books I've ever read.
When you sit in the sun and let your heels hang out of a doorway that drops a thousand feet, ideas come to you.
You begin to feel what the human race has been up against from the beginning.
There's something mighty elevating about those old habitations.
You feel like it's up to you to do your best, on account of those fellows having it so hard.
You feel like you owed them something." At Wassiwappa, Ray got instructions to sidetrack until Thirty-six went by.
After reading the message, he turned to his guests.
I'm afraid this will hold us up about two hours, Mrs. Kronborg, and we won't get into Denver till near midnight." "That won't trouble me," said Mrs. Kronborg contentedly.
They know me at the Y.W.C.A., and they'll let me in any time of night.
I came to see the country, not to make time.
I've always wanted to get out at this white place and look around, and now I'll have a chance.
What makes it so white?" "Some kind of chalky rock.
Ray sprang to the ground and gave Mrs. Kronborg his hand.
The station agent "batched" and raised chickens.
He ran out to meet Mrs. Kronborg, clutched at her feverishly, and began telling her at once how lonely he was and what bad luck he was having with his poultry.
She went to his chicken yard with him, and prescribed for gapes. Wassiwappa seemed a dreary place enough to people who looked for verdure, a brilliant place to people who liked color.
Beside the station house there was a blue-grass plot, protected by a red plank fence, and six fly-bitten box-elder trees, not much larger than bushes, were kept alive by frequent hosings from the water plug.
Over the windows some dusty morning-glory vines were trained on strings.
All the country about was broken up into low chalky hills, which were so intensely white, and spotted so evenly with sage, that they looked like white leopards crouching.
White dust powdered everything, and the light was so intense that the station agent usually wore blue glasses.
Behind the station there was a water course, which roared in flood time, and a basin in the soft white rock where a pool of alkali water flashed in the sun like a mirror.
The agent looked almost as sick as his chickens, and Mrs. Kronborg at once invited him to lunch with her party.
He had, he confessed, a distaste for his own cooking, and lived mainly on soda crackers and canned beef.
They sat up and stared at her, heavy with sleep.
When she asked them where they were going, they told her "to the coast.
I suppose you both drink?" she went on thoughtfully, not censoriously. The huskier of the two hoboes, a bushy, bearded fellow, rolled his eyes and said, "I wonder?
But the other, who was old and spare, with a sharp nose and watery eyes, sighed.
Some has one affliction, some another," he said. Mrs. Kronborg reflected.
Well," she said at last, "you can't get liquor here, anyway.
I am going to ask you to vacate, because I want to have a little picnic under this tank for the freight crew that brought me along.
I wish I had lunch enough to provide you, but I ain't.
The station agent says he gets his provisions over there at the post office store, and if you are hungry you can get some canned stuff there.
She opened her handbag and gave each of the tramps a half-dollar. The old man wiped his eyes with his forefinger.
Thank 'ee, ma'am. A can of tomatters will taste pretty good to me.
I wasn't always walkin' ties; I had a good job in Cleveland before-" The hairy tramp turned on him fiercely.
Aw, shut up on that, grandpaw! Ain't you got no gratitude?
What do you want to hand the lady that fur?" The old man hung his head and turned away.
As he went off, his comrade looked after him and said to Mrs. Kronborg: "It's true, what he says. He had a job in the car shops; but he had bad luck.
They both limped away toward the store, and Mrs. Kronborg sighed.
She was not afraid of tramps.
She always talked to them, and never turned one away.
She hated to think how many of them there were, crawling along the tracks over that vast country. Her reflections were cut short by Ray and Giddy and Thea, who came bringing the lunch box and water bottles.
Although there was not shadow enough to accommodate all the party at once, the air under the tank was distinctly cooler than the surrounding air, and the drip made a pleasant sound in that breathless noon.
The station agent ate as if he had never been fed before, apologizing every time he took another piece of fried chicken.
Giddy was unabashed before the devilled eggs of which he had spoken so scornfully last night.
Your job has its drawbacks, but it don't tie you down.
Of course there's the risk; but I believe a man's watched over, and he can't be hurt on the railroad or anywhere else if it's intended he shouldn't be." Giddy laughed.
Then the trains must be operated by fellows the Lord has it in for, Mrs. Kronborg.
They figure it out that a railroad man's only due to last eleven years; then it's his turn to be smashed." "That's a dark Providence, I don't deny," Mrs. Kronborg admitted.
But there's lots of things in life that's hard to understand." "I guess!" murmured Giddy, looking off at the spotted white hills. Ray smoked in silence, watching Thea and her mother clear away the lunch.
He was thinking that Mrs. Kronborg had in her face the same serious look that Thea had; only hers was calm and satisfied, and Thea's was intense and questioning.
But in both it was a large kind of look, that was not all the time being broken up and convulsed by trivial things.
They both carried their heads like Indian women, with a kind of noble unconsciousness.
They were now about thirty miles from Denver, and the mountains looked very near.
The great toothed wall behind which the sun had gone down now separated into four distinct ranges, one behind the other.
They were a very pale blue, a color scarcely stronger than wood smoke, and the sunset had left bright streaks in the snow-filled gorges.
In the clear, yellow-streaked sky the stars were coming out, flickering like newly lighted lamps, growing steadier and more golden as the sky darkened and the land beneath them fell into complete shadow.
It was a cool, restful darkness that was not black or forbidding, but somehow open and free; the night of high plains where there is no moistness or mistiness in the atmosphere. Ray lit his pipe.
I never get tired of them old stars, Thee.
I miss 'em up in Washington and Oregon where it's misty.
Like 'em best down in Mother Mexico, where they have everything their own way.
I'm not for any country where the stars are dim.
Ray paused and drew on his pipe. "I don't know as I ever really noticed 'em much till that first year I herded sheep up in Wyoming.
That was the year the blizzard caught me." "And you lost all your sheep, didn't you, Ray?
Was the man who owned them nice about it?" "Yes, he was a good loser.
But I didn't get over it for a long while. Sheep are so damned resigned.
Sometimes, to this day, when I'm dog-tired, I try to save them sheep all night long.
I don't believe I could.
I don't see how people can stand it to get knocked out, anyhow!
She spoke with such fierceness that Ray glanced at her in surprise.
She was sitting on the floor of the car, crouching like a little animal about to spring. "No occasion for you to see," he said warmly.
There'll always be plenty of other people to take the knocks for you." "That's nonsense, Ray.
Thea spoke impatiently and leaned lower still, frowning at the red star.
If a man stumbles, there's plenty of people to push him down.
But if he's like 'the youth who bore,' those same people are foreordained to help him along.
They may hate to, worse than blazes, and they may do a lot of cussin' about it, but they have to help the winners and they can't dodge it.
It's a natural law, like what keeps the big clock up there going, little wheels and big, and no mix-up.
Ray's hand and his pipe were suddenly outlined against the sky.
Ever occur to you, Thee, that they have to be on time close enough to _make time?_ The Dispatcher up there must have a long head.
Pleased with his similitude, Ray went back to the lookout.
Nobody knows who makes these songs; they seem to follow events automatically.
Mrs. Kronborg made Giddy sing the whole twelve verses of this one, and laughed until she wiped her eyes.
The story was that of Katie Casey, head diningroom girl at Winslow, Arizona, who was unjustly discharged by the Harvey House manager.
Her suitor, the yardmaster, took the switchmen out on a strike until she was reinstated.
Freight trains from the east and the west piled up at Winslow until the yards looked like a log-jam.
Everything was so kindly and comfortable; Giddy and Ray, and their hospitable little house, and the easy-going country, and the stars.
She curled up on the seat again with that warm, sleepy feeling of the friendliness of the world-which nobody keeps very long, and which she was to lose early and irrevocably. XVII The summer flew by.
Thea was glad when Ray Kennedy had a Sunday in town and could take her driving.
Out among the sand hills she could forget the "new room" which was the scene of wearing and fruitless labor.
Dr. Archie was away from home a good deal that year.
He had put all his money into mines above Colorado Springs, and he hoped for great returns from them. In the fall of that year, Mr. Kronborg decided that Thea ought to show more interest in church work.
He put it to her frankly, one night at supper, before the whole family.
You won't do anything in the sewing society, and you won't take part in the Christian Endeavor or the Band of Hope.
Very well, you must make it up in other ways.
I want some one to play the organ and lead the singing at prayer-meeting this winter.
Deacon Potter told me some time ago that he thought there would be more interest in our prayer-meetings if we had the organ.
Miss Meyers don't feel that she can play on Wednesday nights.
And there ought to be somebody to start the hymns.
Mrs. Potter is getting old, and she always starts them too high.
It won't take much of your time, and it will keep people from talking." This argument conquered Thea, though she left the table sullenly.
The fear of the tongue, that terror of little towns, is usually felt more keenly by the minister's family than by other households.
Whenever the Kronborgs wanted to do anything, even to buy a new carpet, they had to take counsel together as to whether people would talk.
Mrs. Kronborg had her own conviction that people talked when they felt like it, and said what they chose, no matter how the minister's family conducted themselves.
But she did not impart these dangerous ideas to her children.
Thor was too old to furnish such an excuse now, so every Wednesday night, unless one of the children was sick, she trudged off with Thea, behind Mr. Kronborg.
At first Thea was terribly bored.
But she got used to prayer-meeting, got even to feel a mournful interest in it. The exercises were always pretty much the same.
After the first hymn her father read a passage from the Bible, usually a Psalm.
Then there was another hymn, and then her father commented upon the passage he had read and, as he said, "applied the Word to our necessities.
After a third hymn, the meeting was declared open, and the old men and women took turns at praying and talking.
Mrs. Kronborg never spoke in meeting.
She told people firmly that she had been brought up to keep silent and let the men talk, but she gave respectful attention to the others, sitting with her hands folded in her lap. The prayer-meeting audience was always small.
The young and energetic members of the congregation came only once or twice a year, "to keep people from talking.
The usual Wednesday night gathering was made up of old women, with perhaps six or eight old men, and a few sickly girls who had not much interest in life; two of them, indeed, were already preparing to die.
Thea accepted the mournfulness of the prayer-meetings as a kind of spiritual discipline, like funerals.
The old women sat motionless as Indians in their shawls and bonnets; some of them wore long black mourning veils.
The old men drooped in their chairs. Every back, every face, every head said "resignation.
She never whined, and what she said was always cheerful, though she spoke so nervously that Thea knew she dreaded getting up, and that she made a real sacrifice to, as she said, "testify to the goodness of her Saviour.
She was the mother of the girl who coughed, and Thea used to wonder how she explained things to herself.
There was, indeed, only one woman who talked because she was, as Mr. Kronborg said, "tonguey.
The others were somehow impressive.
They told about the sweet thoughts that came to them while they were at their work; how, amid their household tasks, they were suddenly lifted by the sense of a divine Presence.
Sometimes they told of their first conversion, of how in their youth that higher Power had made itself known to them.
Sometimes they asked their brothers and sisters in Christ to pray that they might be stronger against temptations.
One of the sick girls used to ask them to pray that she might have more faith in the times of depression that came to her, "when all the way before seemed dark.
She repeated that husky phrase so often, that Thea always remembered it. One old woman, who never missed a Wednesday night, and who nearly always took part in the meeting, came all the way up from the depot settlement.
She always wore a black crocheted "fascinator" over her thin white hair, and she made long, tremulous prayers, full of railroad terminology.
She had six sons in the service of different railroads, and she always prayed "for the boys on the road, who know not at what moment they may be cut off.
When, in Thy divine wisdom, their hour is upon them, may they, O our Heavenly Father, see only white lights along the road to Eternity.
Thea liked to look at her sunken eyes that seemed full of wisdom, at her black thread gloves, much too long in the fingers and so meekly folded one over the other.
The prayers and the talks went on and on.
It was as if the old people were afraid to go out into the cold, or were stupefied by the hot air of the room.
She had left a book at home that she was impatient to get back to.
At last the Doxology was sung, but the old people lingered about the stove to greet each other, and Thea took her mother's arm and hurried out to the frozen sidewalk, before her father could get away.
The wind was whistling up the street and whipping the naked cottonwood trees against the telegraph poles and the sides of the houses.
Thin snow clouds were flying overhead, so that the sky looked gray, with a dull phosphorescence.
The icy streets and the shingle roofs of the houses were gray, too.
All along the street, shutters banged or windows rattled, or gates wobbled, held by their latch but shaking on loose hinges.
There was not a cat or a dog in Moonstone that night that was not given a warm shelter; the cats under the kitchen stove, the dogs in barns or coal-sheds.
When Thea and her mother reached home, their mufflers were covered with ice, where their breath had frozen.
They hurried into the house and made a dash for the parlor and the hard-coal burner, behind which Gunner was sitting on a stool, reading his Jules Verne book.
The door stood open into the dining-room, which was heated from the parlor.
Mr. Kronborg always had a lunch when he came home from prayer-meeting, and his pumpkin pie and milk were set out on the dining-table.
Mrs. Kronborg said she thought she felt hungry, too, and asked Thea if she didn't want something to eat. "No, I'm not hungry, mother.
I guess I'll go upstairs." "I expect you've got some book up there," said Mrs. Kronborg, bringing out another pie.
You'd better bring it down here and read.
I'll take a hot brick up for my feet.
I put one in the stove before I left, if one of the boys hasn't stolen it. Good-night, mother.
Thea got her brick and lantern, and dashed upstairs through the windy loft.
She undressed at top speed and got into bed with her brick.
She put a pair of white knitted gloves on her hands, and pinned over her head a piece of soft flannel that had been one of Thor's long petticoats when he was a baby.
Thus equipped, she was ready for business.
She took from her table a thick paper-backed volume, one of the "line" of paper novels the druggist kept to sell to traveling men.
She had bought it, only yesterday, because the first sentence interested her very much, and because she saw, as she glanced over the pages, the magical names of two Russian cities.
The book was a poor translation of "Anna Karenina.
Thea opened it at a mark, and fixed her eyes intently upon the small print.
The hymns, the sick girl, the resigned black figures were forgotten.
He was more sincere than many preachers, but when he spoke to his family about matters of conduct it was usually with a regard for keeping up appearances.
The church and church work were discussed in the family like the routine of any other business. Sunday was the hard day of the week with them, just as Saturday was the busy day with the merchants on Main Street.
The Scandinavian mould of countenance, more or less marked in each of the other children, was scarcely discernible in her, and she looked enough like other Moonstone girls to be thought pretty.
Anna's nature was conventional, like her face.
Her position as the minister's eldest daughter was important to her, and she tried to live up to it.
She read sentimental religious story-books and emulated the spiritual struggles and magnanimous behavior of their persecuted heroines.
Everything had to be interpreted for Anna.
Her opinions about the smallest and most commonplace things were gleaned from the Denver papers, the church weeklies, from sermons and Sunday-School addresses.
Scarcely anything was attractive to her in its natural state-indeed, scarcely anything was decent until it was clothed by the opinion of some authority.
Her ideas about habit, character, duty, love, marriage, were grouped under heads, like a book of popular quotations, and were totally unrelated to the emergencies of human living.
She discussed all these subjects with other Methodist girls of her age.
They would spend hours, for instance, in deciding what they would or would not tolerate in a suitor or a husband, and the frailties of masculine nature were too often a subject of discussion among them.
In her behavior Anna was a harmless girl, mild except where her prejudices were concerned, neat and industrious, with no graver fault than priggishness; but her mind had really shocking habits of classification.
The wickedness of Denver and of Chicago, and even of Moonstone, occupied her thoughts too much.
She had none of the delicacy that goes with a nature of warm impulses, but the kind of fishy curiosity which justifies itself by an expression of horror. Thea, and all Thea's ways and friends, seemed indecorous to Anna.
She not only felt a grave social discrimination against the Mexicans; she could not forget that Spanish Johnny was a drunkard and that "nobody knew what he did when he ran away from home.
Thea pretended, of course, that she liked the Mexicans because they were fond of music; but every one knew that music was nothing very real, and that it did not matter in a girl's relations with people.
What was real, then, and what did matter?
Poor Anna! Anna approved of Ray Kennedy as a young man of steady habits and blameless life, but she regretted that he was an atheist, and that he was not a passenger conductor with brass buttons on his coat.
On the whole, she wondered what such an exemplary young man found to like in Thea.
Dr. Archie she treated respectfully because of his position in Moonstone, but she _knew_ he had kissed the Mexican barytone's pretty daughter, and she had a whole _dossier_ of evidence about his behavior in his hours of relaxation in Denver.
He was "fast," and it was because he was "fast" that Thea liked him.
Thea always liked that kind of people.
Dr. Archie's whole manner with Thea, Anna often told her mother, was too free.
He was always putting his hand on Thea's head, or holding her hand while he laughed and looked down at her.
The kindlier manifestation of human nature (about which Anna sang and talked, in the interests of which she went to conventions and wore white ribbons) were never realities to her after all.
She did not believe in them.
It was only in attitudes of protest or reproof, clinging to the cross, that human beings could be even temporarily decent. Preacher Kronborg's secret convictions were very much like Anna's.
She could always be taken in by the stories of tramps and runaway boys.
She went to the circus and admired the bareback riders, who were "likely good enough women in their way.
One Sunday the dispute in the parlor grew warm and was carried to Mrs. Kronborg in the kitchen.
She listened judicially and told Anna to read the chapter about how Naaman the leper was permitted to bow down in the house of Rimmon.
Thea went back to the piano, and Anna lingered to say that, since she was in the right, her mother should have supported her. "No," said Mrs. Kronborg, rather indifferently, "I can't see it that way, Anna.
I never forced you to practice, and I don't see as I should keep Thea from it.
I like to hear her, and I guess your father does. You and Thea will likely follow different lines, and I don't see as I'm called upon to bring you up alike." Anna looked meek and abused.
Of course all the church people must hear her.
Ours is the only noisy house on this street.
You hear what she's playing now, don't you?" Mrs. Kronborg rose from browning her coffee.
Yes; it's the Blue Danube waltzes.
If any of the church people come at you, you just send 'em to me.
I ain't afraid to speak out on occasion, and I wouldn't mind one bit telling the Ladies' Aid a few things about standard composers.
A scourge of typhoid broke out in Moonstone and several of Thea's schoolmates died of it.
She went to their funerals, saw them put into the ground, and wondered a good deal about them.
He had a thin, hungry face covered with black hair.
It was just before suppertime when he came along, and the street smelled of fried potatoes and fried onions and coffee.
Thea saw him sniffing the air greedily and walking slower and slower.
He looked over the fence.
She hoped he would not stop at their gate, for her mother never turned any one away, and this was the dirtiest and most utterly wretched-looking tramp she had ever seen.
There was a terrible odor about him, too.
She caught it even at that distance, and put her handkerchief to her nose.
A moment later she was sorry, for she knew that he had noticed it.
He told the boys who went to see what he was doing, that he had traveled with a circus.
There she found the tramp, his bony body grotesquely attired in the clown's suit, his face shaved and painted white,-the sweat trickling through the paint and washing it away,-and his eyes wild and feverish.
Pulling the accordion in and out seemed to be almost too great an effort for him, and he panted to the tune of "Marching through Georgia.
The tramp was utterly filthy and there was no way to give him a bath.
The law made no provision to grub-stake vagrants, so after the constable had detained the tramp for twentyfour hours, he released him and told him to "get out of town, and get quick.
The fellow's rattlesnakes had been killed by the saloon keeper.
He hid in a box car in the freight yard, probably hoping to get a ride to the next station, but he was found and put out.
After that he was seen no more.
The Kronborgs had a well in their back yard and did not use city water, but they heard the complaints of their neighbors.
At first people said that the town well was full of rotting cottonwood roots, but the engineer at the pumping-station convinced the mayor that the water left the well untainted.
Mayors reason slowly, but, the well being eliminated, the official mind had to travel toward the standpipe-there was no other track for it to go in. The standpipe amply rewarded investigation.
The tramp had got even with Moonstone.
He had climbed the standpipe by the handholds and let himself down into seventy-five feet of cold water, with his shoes and hat and roll of ticking.
The city council had a mild panic and passed a new ordinance about tramps.
But the fever had already broken out, and several adults and half a dozen children died of it. Thea had always found everything that happened in Moonstone exciting, disasters particularly so.
It was gratifying to read sensational Moonstone items in the Denver paper.
But she wished she had not chanced to see the tramp as he came into town that evening, sniffing the supper-laden air.
His face remained unpleasantly clear in her memory, and her mind struggled with the problem of his behavior as if it were a hard page in arithmetic.
She kept seeing him in his bedraggled clown suit, the white paint on his roughly shaven face, playing his accordion before the saloon.
She had noticed his lean body, his high, bald forehead that sloped back like a curved metal lid.
How could people fall so far out of fortune?
She tried to talk to Ray Kennedy about her perplexity, but Ray would not discuss things of that sort with her.
It was in his sentimental conception of women that they should be deeply religious, though men were at liberty to doubt and finally to deny.
A picture called "The Soul Awakened," popular in Moonstone parlors, pretty well interpreted Ray's idea of woman's spiritual nature. One evening when she was haunted by the figure of the tramp, Thea went up to Dr. Archie's office.
She found him sewing up two bad gashes in the face of a little boy who had been kicked by a mule.
After the boy had been bandaged and sent away with his father, Thea helped the doctor wash and put away the surgical instruments.
Then she dropped into her accustomed seat beside his desk and began to talk about the tramp.
Her eyes were hard and green with excitement, the doctor noticed. "It seems to me, Dr. Archie, that the whole town's to blame.
I know he saw me hold my nose when he went by.
If he believes the Bible, he ought to have gone to the calaboose and cleaned that man up and taken care of him.
That's what I can't understand; do people believe the Bible, or don't they?
Does it matter, or don't it?" Dr. Archie swung round in his chair and looked at her, honestly and leniently.
Well, Thea, it seems to me like this.
Every people has had its religion.
Now, most religions are passive, and they tell us chiefly what we should not do.
That's not long enough to get acquainted with half the fine things that have been done in the world, much less to do anything ourselves.
Ugly accidents happen, Thea; always have and always will.
But the failures are swept back into the pile and forgotten.
They don't leave any lasting scar in the world, and they don't affect the future.
The things that last are the good things.
The people who forge ahead and do something, they really count.
He saw tears on her cheeks, and he remembered that he had never seen her cry before, not even when she crushed her finger when she was little.
He rose and walked to the window, came back and sat down on the edge of his chair. "Forget the tramp, Thea.
This is a great big world, and I want you to get about and see it all.
You're going to Chicago some day, and do something with that fine voice of yours.
You're going to be a number one musician and make us proud of you.
Take Mary Anderson, now; even the tramps are proud of her.
There isn't a tramp along the 'Q' system who hasn't heard of her.
We all like people who do things, even if we only see their faces on a cigar-box lid." They had a long talk.
Thea felt that Dr. Archie had never let himself out to her so much before.
It was the most grown-up conversation she had ever had with him.
She left his office happy, flattered and stimulated.
She ran for a long while about the white, moonlit streets, looking up at the stars and the bluish night, at the quiet houses sunk in black shade, the glittering sand hills.
She loved the familiar trees, and the people in those little houses, and she loved the unknown world beyond Denver.
When she went home, it was not to go to sleep.
She used to drag her mattress beside her low window and lie awake for a long while, vibrating with excitement, as a machine vibrates from speed.
Life rushed in upon her through that window-or so it seemed.
In reality, of course, life rushes from within, not from without.
There is no work of art so big or so beautiful that it was not once all contained in some youthful body, like this one which lay on the floor in the moonlight, pulsing with ardor and anticipation.
The only men who are incurably nervous about railway travel are the railroad operatives.
A railroad man never forgets that the next run may be his turn. On a single-track road, like that upon which Ray Kennedy worked, the freight trains make their way as best they can between passenger trains.
Even when there is such a thing as a freight time-schedule, it is merely a form.
Along the one track dozens of fast and slow trains dash in both directions, kept from collision only by the brains in the dispatcher's office.
They have no right to the track at any given time, but are supposed to be on it when it is free, and to make the best time they can between passenger trains.
A freight train, on a single-track road, gets anywhere at all only by stealing bases. Ray Kennedy had stuck to the freight service, although he had had opportunities to go into the passenger service at higher pay.
He always regarded railroading as a temporary makeshift, until he "got into something," and he disliked the passenger service.
No brass buttons for him, he said; too much like a livery.
While he was railroading he would wear a jumper, thank you! The wreck that "caught" Ray was a very commonplace one; nothing thrilling about it, and it got only six lines in the Denver papers.
It happened about daybreak one morning, only thirty-two miles from home. At four o'clock in the morning Ray's train had stopped to take water at Saxony, having just rounded the long curve which lies south of that station.
Giddy took his torpedoes, swung off the rear platform, and glanced back at the curve.
He decided that he would not go back to flag this time.
If anything was coming up behind, he could hear it in plenty of time.
So he ran forward to look after a hot journal that had been bothering him.
In a general way, Giddy's reasoning was sound.
If a freight train, or even a passenger train, had been coming up behind them, he could have heard it in time.
But as it happened, a light engine, which made no noise at all, was coming,-ordered out to help with the freight that was piling up at the other end of the division.
Gunner answered the knock, and the telegraph operator told him he wanted to see his father a minute, quick.
Mr. Kronborg appeared at the door, napkin in hand.
The operator was pale and panting. "Fourteen was wrecked down at Saxony this morning," he shouted, "and Kennedy's all broke up.
We're sending an engine down with the doctor, and the operator at Saxony says Kennedy wants you to come along with us and bring your girl.
He stopped for breath. Mr. Kronborg took off his glasses and began rubbing them with his napkin. "Bring-I don't understand," he muttered.
How did this happen?" "No time for that, sir.
Getting the engine out now.
Your girl, Thea. You'll surely do that for the poor chap. Everybody knows he thinks the world of her.
Seeing that Mr. Kronborg showed no indication of having made up his mind, the operator turned to Gunner.
I'm going to ask the girl herself," he blurted out. "Yes, yes, certainly.
Archie jumped out the moment his driver stopped the team and came up to the bewildered girl without so much as saying good-morning to any one.
He took her hand with the sympathetic, reassuring graveness which had helped her at more than one hard time in her life.
Get your hat, my girl.
Kennedy's hurt down the road, and he wants you to run down with me.
They'll have a car for us.
Get into my buggy, Mr. Kronborg.
I'll drive you down, and Larry can come for the team." The driver jumped out of the buggy and Mr. Kronborg and the doctor got in. Thea, still bewildered, sat on her father's knee.
Dr. Archie gave his ponies a smart cut with the whip. When they reached the depot, the engine, with one car attached, was standing on the main track.
The engineer had got his steam up, and was leaning out of the cab impatiently.
In a moment they were off.
The run to Saxony took forty minutes.
Thea sat still in her seat while Dr. Archie and her father talked about the wreck.
She took no part in the conversation and asked no questions, but occasionally she looked at Dr. Archie with a frightened, inquiring glance, which he answered by an encouraging nod.
Neither he nor her father said anything about how badly Ray was hurt.
When the engine stopped near Saxony, the main track was already cleared.
As they got out of the car, Dr. Archie pointed to a pile of ties. "Thea, you'd better sit down here and watch the wreck crew while your father and I go up and look Kennedy over.
She was frightened and absent-minded.
She felt that she ought to be thinking about Ray, but her mind kept racing off to all sorts of trivial and irrelevant things.
Her mind worked fast, but she could fix it upon nothing.
The grasshoppers, the lizards, distracted her attention and seemed more real to her than poor Ray. On their way to the sand bank where Ray had been carried, Dr. Archie and Mr. Kronborg met the Saxony doctor.
He shook hands with them. "Nothing you can do, doctor.
I couldn't count the fractures.
He wouldn't be alive now if he weren't so confoundedly strong, poor chap. No use bothering him.
I've given him morphia, one and a half, in eighths." Dr. Archie hurried on.
Ray was lying on a flat canvas litter, under the shelter of a shelving bank, lightly shaded by a slender cottonwood tree.
When the doctor and the preacher approached, he looked at them intently. "Didn't-" he closed his eyes to hide his bitter disappointment. Dr. Archie knew what was the matter.
I'll bring her as soon as I've had a look at you." Ray looked up.
You might clean me up a trifle, doc.
Won't need you for anything else, thank you all the same." However little there was left of him, that little was certainly Ray Kennedy.
His personality was as positive as ever, and the blood and dirt on his face seemed merely accidental, to have nothing to do with the man himself.
Dr. Archie told Mr. Kronborg to bring a pail of water, and he began to sponge Ray's face and neck.
Mr. Kronborg stood by, nervously rubbing his hands together and trying to think of something to say.
Never mind about all that, _padre_," he said quietly.
Christ and me fell out long ago." There was a moment of silence.
Then Ray took pity on Mr. Kronborg's embarrassment.
You go back for the little girl, _padre_.
I want a word with the doc in private." Ray talked to Dr. Archie for a few moments, then stopped suddenly, with a broad smile.
Over the doctor's shoulder he saw Thea coming up the gulch, in her pink chambray dress, carrying her sun-hat by the strings. Such a yellow head!
He often told himself that he "was perfectly foolish about her hair.
The sight of her, coming, went through him softly, like the morphia.
There she is," he whispered.
Get the old preacher out of the way, doc.
I want to have a little talk with her." Dr. Archie looked up.
Thea was hurrying and yet hanging back.
She was more frightened than he had thought she would be.
She had gone with him to see very sick people and had always been steady and calm.
As she came up, she looked at the ground, and he could see that she had been crying. Ray Kennedy made an unsuccessful effort to put out his hand.
Hello, little kid, nothing to be afraid of.
Darned if I don't believe they've gone and scared you!
I'm the same old goods, only a little dented.
Sit down on my coat there, and keep me company.
I've got to lay still a bit." Dr. Archie and Mr. Kronborg disappeared.
Thea cast a timid glance after them, but she sat down resolutely and took Ray's hand. "You ain't scared now, are you?" he asked affectionately.
You were a regular brick to come, Thee.
Did you get any breakfast?" "No, Ray, I'm not scared.
Only I'm dreadful sorry you're hurt, and I can't help crying." His broad, earnest face, languid from the opium and smiling with such simple happiness, reassured her.
She drew nearer to him and lifted his hand to her knee.
He looked at her with his clear, shallow blue eyes. How he loved everything about that face and head!
The doctor's medicine makes me sort of dopey.
But it's nice to have company.
Kind of cozy, don't you think? Pull my coat under you more.
It's a darned shame I can't wait on you." "No, no, Ray.
Yes, I like it here.
And I guess you ought not to talk much, ought you?
If you can sleep, I'll stay right here, and be awful quiet.
I feel just as much at home with you as ever, now." That simple, humble, faithful something in Ray's eyes went straight to Thea's heart.
She did feel comfortable with him, and happy to give him so much happiness.
It was the first time she had ever been conscious of that power to bestow intense happiness by simply being near any one. She always remembered this day as the beginning of that knowledge.
She bent over him and put her lips softly to his cheek. Ray's eyes filled with light.
Oh, do that again, kid!" he said impulsively.
Thea kissed him on the forehead, blushing faintly.
Ray held her hand fast and closed his eyes with a deep sigh of happiness. The morphia and the sense of her nearness filled him with content.
The gold mine, the oil well, the copper ledge-all pipe dreams, he mused, and this was a dream, too.
He might have known it before.
It had always been like that; the things he admired had always been away out of his reach: a college education, a gentleman's manner, an Englishman's accent-things over his head.
And Thea was farther out of his reach than all the rest put together.
He had been a fool to imagine it, but he was glad he had been a fool.
She had given him one grand dream.
Every mile of his run, from Moonstone to Denver, was painted with the colors of that hope.
Every cactus knew about it.
But now that it was not to be, he knew the truth.
Thea was never meant for any rough fellow like him-hadn't he really known that all along, he asked himself?
She wasn't meant for common men.
She was like wedding cake, a thing to dream on. He raised his eyelids a little.
She was stroking his hand and looking off into the distance.
He felt in her face that look of unconscious power that Wunsch had seen there.
Yes, she was bound for the big terminals of the world; no way stations for her.
He opened his eyes, and they were full of tears. Thea leaned closer.
What did you say, Ray?
I couldn't hear." "Then you'll remember me," he whispered. The spark in his eye, which is one's very self, caught the spark in hers that was herself, and for a moment they looked into each other's natures.
Thea realized how good and how great-hearted he was, and he realized about her many things.
When that elusive spark of personality retreated in each of them, Thea still saw in his wet eyes her own face, very small, but much prettier than the cracked glass at home had ever shown it.
It was the first time she had seen her face in that kindest mirror a woman can ever find. Ray had felt things in that moment when he seemed to be looking into the very soul of Thea Kronborg.
Yes, the gold mine, the oil well, the copper ledge, they'd all got away from him, as things will; but he'd backed a winner once in his life!
With all his might he gave his faith to the broad little hand he held.
He wished he could leave her the rugged strength of his body to help her through with it all.
He would have liked to tell her a little about his old dream,-there seemed long years between him and it already,-but to tell her now would somehow be unfair; wouldn't be quite the straightest thing in the world.
You know, don't you, Thee, that I think you are just the finest thing I've struck in this world?" The tears ran down Thea's cheeks.
You're too good to me, Ray.
You're a lot too good to me," she faltered. "Why, kid," he murmured, "everybody in this world's going to be good to you!" Dr. Archie came to the gulch and stood over his patient.
How's it going?" "Can't you give me another punch with your pacifier, doc?
The little girl had better run along now.
See you later, Thee." She got up and moved away aimlessly, carrying her hat by the strings. Ray looked after her with the exaltation born of bodily pain and said between his teeth, "Always look after that girl, doc.
She's a queen!" Thea and her father went back to Moonstone on the one-o'clock passenger.
Dr. Archie stayed with Ray Kennedy until he died, late in the afternoon. XX On Monday morning, the day after Ray Kennedy's funeral, Dr. Archie called at Mr. Kronborg's study, a little room behind the church.
Mr. Kronborg did not write out his sermons, but spoke from notes jotted upon small pieces of cardboard in a kind of shorthand of his own.
As sermons go, they were not worse than most.
His conventional rhetoric pleased the majority of his congregation, and Mr. Kronborg was generally regarded as a model preacher.
He did not smoke, he never touched spirits.
His indulgence in the pleasures of the table was an endearing bond between him and the women of his congregation.
He ate enormously, with a zest which seemed incongruous with his spare frame. This morning the doctor found him opening his mail and reading a pile of advertising circulars with deep attention. "Good-morning, Mr. Kronborg," said Dr. Archie, sitting down.
I came to see you on business.
Poor Kennedy asked me to look after his affairs for him.
Like most railroad men he spent his wages, except for a few investments in mines which don't look to me very promising.
But his life was insured for six hundred dollars in Thea's favor." Mr. Kronborg wound his feet about the standard of his desk-chair.
I assure you, doctor, this is a complete surprise to me." "Well, it's not very surprising to me," Dr. Archie went on.
He talked to me about it the day he was hurt.
He said he wanted the money to be used in a particular way, and in no other.
Dr. Archie paused meaningly. Mr. Kronborg fidgeted.
I am sure Thea would observe his wishes in every respect." "No doubt; but he wanted me to see that you agreed to his plan.
It seems that for some time Thea has wanted to go away to study music.
It was Kennedy's wish that she should take this money and go to Chicago this winter.
She is very young," he hesitated; "she is barely seventeen.
Chicago is a long way from home. We would have to consider.
I think, Dr. Archie, we had better consult Mrs. Kronborg." "I think I can bring Mrs. Kronborg around, if I have your consent.
I've always found her pretty level-headed.
I have several old classmates practicing in Chicago.
One is a throat specialist.
He has a good deal to do with singers.
He probably knows the best piano teachers and could recommend a boarding-house where music students stay.
I think Thea needs to get among a lot of young people who are clever like herself. Here she has no companions but old fellows like me.
It's not a natural life for a young girl.
She'll either get warped, or wither up before her time.
At any rate, he'll know the right teachers.
Of course, six hundred dollars won't take her very far, but even half the winter there would be a great advantage.
I think Kennedy sized the situation up exactly." "Perhaps; I don't doubt it.
You are very kind, Dr. Archie.
Mr. Kronborg was ornamenting his desk-blotter with hieroglyphics.
I should think Denver might be better.
There we could watch over her.
She is very young." Dr. Archie rose.
Under the circumstances, it seems to me we ought to try to carry out his wishes exactly, if Thea is willing." "Certainly, certainly.
She would not waste her opportunities.
If Thea were your own daughter, doctor, would you consent to such a plan, at her present age?" "I most certainly should.
In fact, if she were my daughter, I'd have sent her away before this.
She's a most unusual child, and she's only wasting herself here.
At her age she ought to be learning, not teaching.
She'll never learn so quickly and easily as she will right now." "Well, doctor, you had better talk it over with Mrs. Kronborg.
I make it a point to defer to her wishes in such matters.
She understands all her children perfectly.
I may say that she has all a mother's insight, and more." Dr. Archie smiled.
I feel quite confident about Mrs. Kronborg.
Good-morning." Dr. Archie stepped out into the hot sunshine and walked rapidly toward his office, with a determined look on his face.
He found his waiting-room full of patients, and it was one o'clock before he had dismissed the last one.
Then he shut his door and took a drink before going over to the hotel for his lunch.
He smiled as he locked his cupboard.
I feel almost as gay as if I were going to get away for a winter myself," he thought. Afterward Thea could never remember much about that summer, or how she lived through her impatience.
She was to set off with Dr. Archie on the fifteenth of October, and she gave lessons until the first of September.
Then she began to get her clothes ready, and spent whole afternoons in the village dressmaker's stuffy, littered little sewing-room.
Thea and her mother made a trip to Denver to buy the materials for her dresses.
Ready-made clothes for girls were not to be had in those days.
Miss Spencer, the dressmaker, declared that she could do handsomely by Thea if they would only let her carry out her own ideas.
But Mrs. Kronborg and Thea felt that Miss Spencer's most daring productions might seem out of place in Chicago, so they restrained her with a firm hand.
Tillie, who always helped Mrs. Kronborg with the family sewing, was for letting Miss Spencer challenge Chicago on Thea's person.
Since Ray Kennedy's death, Thea had become more than ever one of Tillie's heroines.
This discussion went on, upon front porches and in back yards, pretty much all summer.
Some people approved of Thea's going to Chicago, but most people did not.
Anyhow, I don't know anybody in Chicago.
I won't be going to parties." Tillie always replied with a knowing toss of her head, "You see!
You'll be in society before you know it.
There ain't many girls as accomplished as you." On the morning of the fifteenth of October the Kronborg family, all of them but Gus, who couldn't leave the store, started for the station an hour before train time.
Charley had taken Thea's trunk and telescope to the depot in his delivery wagon early that morning.
Thea wore her new blue serge traveling-dress, chosen for its serviceable qualities.
She had done her hair up carefully, and had put a pale-blue ribbon around her throat, under a little lace collar that Mrs. Kohler had crocheted for her.
As they went out of the gate, Mrs. Kronborg looked her over thoughtfully.
Yes, that blue ribbon went very well with the dress, and with Thea's eyes.
Thea had a rather unusual touch about such things, she reflected comfortably.
Tillie always said that Thea was "so indifferent to dress," but her mother noticed that she usually put her clothes on well.
She felt the more at ease about letting Thea go away from home, because she had good sense about her clothes and never tried to dress up too much.
Her coloring was so individual, she was so unusually fair, that in the wrong clothes she might easily have been "conspicuous." It was a fine morning, and the family set out from the house in good spirits.
Thea was quiet and calm.
She had forgotten nothing, and she clung tightly to her handbag, which held her trunk-key and all of her money that was not in an envelope pinned to her chemise.
Thea walked behind the others, holding Thor by the hand, and this time she did not feel that the procession was too long.
Thor was uncommunicative that morning, and would only talk about how he would rather get a sand bur in his toe every day than wear shoes and stockings.
I guess I can make a pond for my duck." Thea leaned down and looked into his face.
But you won't forget about sister, will you?
And won't you be glad when sister comes back and can take you over to Mrs. Kohler's to see the pigeons?" "Yes, I'll be glad.
But I'm going to have a pigeon my own self." "But you haven't got any little house for one.
Maybe Axel would make you a little house." "Oh, her can live in the barn, her can," Thor drawled indifferently. Thea laughed and squeezed his hand.
She always liked his sturdy matter-of-factness.
Boys ought to be like that, she thought. When they reached the depot, Mr. Kronborg paced the platform somewhat ceremoniously with his daughter.
Any member of his flock would have gathered that he was giving her good counsel about meeting the temptations of the world.
He did, indeed, begin to admonish her not to forget that talents come from our Heavenly Father and are to be used for his glory, but he cut his remarks short and looked at his watch.
He believed that Thea was a religious girl, but when she looked at him with that intent, that passionately inquiring gaze which used to move even Wunsch, Mr. Kronborg suddenly felt his eloquence fail.
Thea was like her mother, he reflected; you couldn't put much sentiment across with her.
As a usual thing, he liked girls to be a little more responsive.
He liked them to blush at his compliments; as Mrs. Kronborg candidly said, "Father could be very soft with the girls.
But this morning he was thinking that hard-headedness was a reassuring quality in a daughter who was going to Chicago alone. Mr. Kronborg believed that big cities were places where people went to lose their identity and to be wicked.
He himself, when he was a student at the Seminary-he coughed and opened his watch again.
He knew, of course, that a great deal of business went on in Chicago, that there was an active Board of Trade, and that hogs and cattle were slaughtered there.
But when, as a young man, he had stopped over in Chicago, he had not interested himself in the commercial activities of the city.
He remembered it as a place full of cheap shows and dance halls and boys from the country who were behaving disgustingly. Dr. Archie drove up to the station about ten minutes before the train was due.
His man tied the ponies and stood holding the doctor's alligator-skin bag-very elegant, Thea thought it.
Mrs. Kronborg did not burden the doctor with warnings and cautions.
She said again that she hoped he could get Thea a comfortable place to stay, where they had good beds, and she hoped the landlady would be a woman who'd had children of her own.
I don't go much on old maids looking after girls," she remarked as she took a pin out of her own hat and thrust it into Thea's blue turban.
You'll be sure to lose your hatpins on the train, Thea.
It's better to have an extra one in case.
She tucked in a little curl that had escaped from Thea's careful twist.
Don't forget to brush your dress often, and pin it up to the curtains of your berth to-night, so it won't wrinkle.
If you get it wet, have a tailor press it before it draws." She turned Thea about by the shoulders and looked her over a last time. Yes, she looked very well.
She wasn't pretty, exactly,-her face was too broad and her nose was too big.
But she had that lovely skin, and she looked fresh and sweet.
She had always been a sweet-smelling child.
Her mother had always liked to kiss her, when she happened to think of it. The train whistled in, and Mr. Kronborg carried the canvas "telescope" into the car.
Thea kissed them all good-bye.
Tillie cried, but she was the only one who did.
They all shouted things up at the closed window of the Pullman car, from which Thea looked down at them as from a frame, her face glowing with excitement, her turban a little tilted in spite of three hatpins.
She had already taken off her new gloves to save them.
Mrs. Kronborg reflected that she would never see just that same picture again, and as Thea's car slid off along the rails, she wiped a tear from her eye.
She won't come back a little girl," Mrs. Kronborg said to her husband as they turned to go home.
Anyhow, she's been a sweet one." While the Kronborg family were trooping slowly homeward, Thea was sitting in the Pullman, her telescope in the seat beside her, her handbag tightly gripped in her fingers.
Dr. Archie had gone into the smoker.
He thought she might be a little tearful, and that it would be kinder to leave her alone for a while.
Her eyes did fill once, when she saw the last of the sand hills and realized that she was going to leave them behind for a long while.
They always made her think of Ray, too. She had had such good times with him out there. But, of course, it was herself and her own adventure that mattered to her.
If youth did not matter so much to itself, it would never have the heart to go on.
Thea was surprised that she did not feel a deeper sense of loss at leaving her old life behind her.
It seemed, on the contrary, as she looked out at the yellow desert speeding by, that she had left very little.
Everything that was essential seemed to be right there in the car with her.
She even felt more compact and confident than usual.
She was all there, and something else was there, too,-in her heart, was it, or under her cheek?
The doctor thought she was the prettiest thing he had ever seen, and very funny, with her telescope and big handbag.
She made him feel jolly, and a little mournful, too.
He knew that the splendid things of life are few, after all, and so very easy to miss. PART II. THE SONG OF THE LARK I Thea and Dr. Archie had been gone from Moonstone four days.
On the afternoon of the nineteenth of October they were in a street-car, riding through the depressing, unkept wastes of North Chicago, on their way to call upon the Reverend Lars Larsen, a friend to whom Mr. Kronborg had written.
Thea was still staying at the rooms of the Young Women's Christian Association, and was miserable and homesick there. The housekeeper watched her in a way that made her uncomfortable. Things had not gone very well, so far.
The noise and confusion of a big city tired and disheartened her.
She had not had her trunk sent to the Christian Association rooms because she did not want to double cartage charges, and now she was running up a bill for storage on it.
The contents of her gray telescope were becoming untidy, and it seemed impossible to keep one's face and hands clean in Chicago.
She felt as if she were still on the train, traveling without enough clothes to keep clean.
She wanted another nightgown, and it did not occur to her that she could buy one.
Dr. Evans said he could easily tell him who was the best piano teacher in Chicago, but that most students' boarding-houses were "abominable places, where girls got poor food for body and mind.
He gave Dr. Archie several addresses, however, and the doctor went to look the places over.
He left Thea in her room, for she seemed tired and was not at all like herself.
His inspection of boardinghouses was not encouraging.
The only place that seemed to him at all desirable was full, and the mistress of the house could not give Thea a room in which she could have a piano.
The Swedish Reform Church was in a sloughy, weedy district, near a group of factories.
The church itself was a very neat little building.
The parsonage, next door, looked clean and comfortable, and there was a well-kept yard about it, with a picket fence.
Thea saw several little children playing under a swing, and wondered why ministers always had so many.
When they rang at the parsonage door, a capable-looking Swedish servant girl answered the bell and told them that Mr. Larsen's study was in the church, and that he was waiting for them there. Mr. Larsen received them very cordially.
There were even flowers in a glass vase on the desk.
He looked cheerful and agreeable.
He wore a blue coat and no cuffs. After Dr. Archie and Thea sat down on a slippery leather couch, the minister asked for an outline of Thea's plans.
But he is a concert pianist already.
He will be very expensive." "That's why Miss Kronborg wants to get a church position if possible. She has not money enough to see her through the winter.
There's no use her coming all the way from Colorado and studying with a second-rate teacher.
My friends here tell me Harsanyi is the best." "Oh, very likely!
I have heard him play with Thomas.
You Western people do things on a big scale.
There are half a dozen teachers that I should think-However, you know what you want.
Mr. Larsen showed his contempt for such extravagant standards by a shrug.
He felt that Dr. Archie was trying to impress him.
He had succeeded, indeed, in bringing out the doctor's stiffest manner.
Mr. Larsen went on to explain that he managed the music in his church himself, and drilled his choir, though the tenor was the official choirmaster.
Unfortunately there were no vacancies in his choir just now.
He had his four voices, very good ones.
He looked away from Dr. Archie and glanced at Thea.
She looked troubled, even a little frightened when he said this, and drew in her lower lip.
She, certainly, was not pretentious, if her protector was. He continued to study her.
She wore no veil, and her hair, too, was the worse for the wind and dust.
When he said he had all the voices he required, he noticed that her gloved hands shut tightly.
Mr. Larsen reflected that she was not, after all, responsible for the lofty manner of her father's physician; that she was not even responsible for her father, whom he remembered as a tiresome fellow.
As he watched her tired, worried face, he felt sorry for her. "All the same, I would like to try your voice," he said, turning pointedly away from her companion.
I am interested in voices.
Can you sing to the violin?" "I guess so," Thea replied dully.
I never tried." Mr. Larsen took his violin out of the case and began to tighten the keys.
We might go into the lecture-room and see how it goes.
I can't tell much about a voice by the organ.
The violin is really the proper instrument to try a voice.
He opened a door at the back of his study, pushed Thea gently through it, and looking over his shoulder to Dr. Archie said, "Excuse us, sir.
We will be back soon." Dr. Archie chuckled.
All preachers were alike, officious and on their dignity; liked to deal with women and girls, but not with men.
He took up a thin volume from the minister's desk.
To his amusement it proved to be a book of "Devotional and Kindred Poems; by Mrs. Aurelia S. Larsen.
He looked them over, thinking that the world changed very little.
He could remember when the wife of his father's minister had published a volume of verses, which all the church members had to buy and all the children were encouraged to read.
His grandfather had made a face at the book and said, "Puir body!
Both ladies seemed to have chosen the same subjects, too: Jephthah's Daughter, Rizpah, David's Lament for Absalom, etc. The doctor found the book very amusing. The Reverend Lars Larsen was a reactionary Swede.
His father came to Iowa in the sixties, married a Swedish girl who was ambitious, like himself, and they moved to Kansas and took up land under the Homestead Act.
After that, they bought land and leased it from the Government, acquired land in every possible way.
They worked like horses, both of them; indeed, they would never have used any horse-flesh they owned as they used themselves.
They reared a large family and worked their sons and daughters as mercilessly as they worked themselves; all of them but Lars.
Lars was the fourth son, and he was born lazy.
He seemed to bear the mark of overstrain on the part of his parents.
Even in his cradle he was an example of physical inertia; anything to lie still.
When he was a growing boy his mother had to drag him out of bed every morning, and he had to be driven to his chores.
At school he had a model "attendance record," because he found getting his lessons easier than farm work.
In so far as he could see, it was the only business in which there was practically no competition, in which a man was not all the time pitted against other men who were willing to work themselves to death.
His English was no worse than that of most young preachers of American parentage, and he made the most of his skill with the violin.
He was supposed to exert a very desirable influence over young people and to stimulate their interest in church work.
He married an American girl, and when his father died he got his share of the property-which was very considerable.
He invested his money carefully and was that rare thing, a preacher of independent means.
His white, well-kept hands were his result,-the evidence that he had worked out his life successfully in the way that pleased him.
His Kansas brothers hated the sight of his hands. Larsen liked all the softer things of life,-in so far as he knew about them.
He slept late in the morning, was fussy about his food, and read a great many novels, preferring sentimental ones.
He did not smoke, but he ate a great deal of candy "for his throat," and always kept a box of chocolate drops in the upper right-hand drawer of his desk.
He always bought season tickets for the symphony concerts, and he played his violin for women's culture clubs.
He did not wear cuffs, except on Sunday, because he believed that a free wrist facilitated his violin practice.
When he drilled his choir he always held his hand with the little and index fingers curved higher than the other two, like a noted German conductor he had seen.
On the whole, the Reverend Larsen was not an insincere man; he merely spent his life resting and playing, to make up for the time his forebears had wasted grubbing in the earth.
He was simple-hearted and kind; he enjoyed his candy and his children and his sacred cantatas.
He could work energetically at almost any form of play. Dr. Archie was deep in "The Lament of Mary Magdalen," when Mr. Larsen and Thea came back to the study.
From the minister's expression he judged that Thea had succeeded in interesting him. Mr. Larsen seemed to have forgotten his hostility toward him, and addressed him frankly as soon as he entered.
My soprano is a young married woman and is temporarily indisposed.
She would be glad to be excused from her duties for a while.
I like Miss Kronborg's singing very much, and I think she would benefit by the instruction in my choir.
Singing here might very well lead to something else.
We pay our soprano only eight dollars a Sunday, but she always gets ten dollars for singing at funerals.
Miss Kronborg has a sympathetic voice, and I think there would be a good deal of demand for her at funerals.
I would advise her to keep away from boarding-houses altogether.
Among my parishioners there are two German women, a mother and daughter.
The daughter is a Swede by marriage, and clings to the Swedish Church.
They live near here, and they rent some of their rooms.
They have now a large room vacant, and have asked me to recommend some one.
They have never taken boarders, but Mrs. Lorch, the mother, is a good cook,-at least, I am always glad to take supper with her,-and I think I could persuade her to let this young woman partake of the family table.
The daughter, Mrs. Andersen, is musical, too, and sings in the Mozart Society.
I think they might like to have a music student in the house. You speak German, I suppose?" he turned to Thea. "Oh, no; a few words.
I don't know the grammar," she murmured. Dr. Archie noticed that her eyes looked alive again, not frozen as they had looked all morning.
If this fellow can help her, it's not for me to be stand-offish," he said to himself. "Do you think you would like to stay in such a quiet place, with old-fashioned people?
I shouldn't think you could find a better place to work, if that's what you want." "I think mother would like to have me with people like that," Thea replied.
And I'd be glad to settle down most anywhere.
I'm losing time." "Very well, there's no time like the present.
Let us go to see Mrs. Lorch and Mrs. Andersen." The minister put his violin in its case and caught up a black-and-white checked traveling-cap that he wore when he rode his high Columbia wheel.
The three left the church together. II So Thea did not go to a boarding-house after all.
The house, which had been left over from country times, needed paint badly, and looked gloomy and despondent among its smart Queen Anne neighbors.
There was a big back yard with two rows of apple trees and a grape arbor, and a warped walk, two planks wide, which led to the coal bins at the back of the lot.
Thea's room was on the second floor, overlooking this back yard, and she understood that in the winter she must carry up her own coal and kindling from the bin.
There was no furnace in the house, no running water except in the kitchen, and that was why the room rent was small.
All the rooms were heated by stoves, and the lodgers pumped the water they needed from the cistern under the porch, or from the well at the entrance of the grape arbor.
Old Mrs. Lorch could never bring herself to have costly improvements made in her house; indeed she had very little money.
She preferred to keep the house just as her husband built it, and she thought her way of living good enough for plain people. Thea's room was large enough to admit a rented upright piano without crowding.
It was, the widowed daughter said, "a double room that had always before been occupied by two gentlemen"; the piano now took the place of a second occupant.
There was an ingrain carpet on the floor, green ivy leaves on a red ground, and clumsy, old-fashioned walnut furniture.
The bed was very wide, and the mattress thin and hard.
Besides an old horsehair armchair, there were two low plush "spring-rockers," against the massive pedestals of which one was always stumbling in the dark.
Thea sat in the dark a good deal those first weeks, and sometimes a painful bump against one of those brutally immovable pedestals roused her temper and pulled her out of a heavy hour.
The wall-paper was brownish yellow, with blue flowers.
When it was put on, the carpet, certainly, had not been consulted.
There was only one picture on the wall when Thea moved in: a large colored print of a brightly lighted church in a snow-storm, on Christmas Eve, with greens hanging about the stone doorway and arched windows.
There was something warm and home, like about this picture, and Thea grew fond of it.
One day, on her way into town to take her lesson, she stopped at a bookstore and bought a photograph of the Naples bust of Julius Caesar.
This she had framed, and hung it on the big bare wall behind her stove.
It was a curious choice, but she was at the age when people do inexplicable things.
She had been interested in Caesar's "Commentaries" when she left school to begin teaching, and she loved to read about great generals; but these facts would scarcely explain her wanting that grim bald head to share her daily existence.
Old Mrs. Lorch was fat and jolly, with a red face, always shining as if she had just come from the stove, bright little eyes, and hair of several colors.
Her own hair was one cast of iron-gray, her switch another, and her false front still another.
Her clothes always smelled of savory cooking, except when she was dressed for church or _Kaffeeklatsch_, and then she smelled of bay rum or of the lemon-verbena sprig which she tucked inside her puffy black kid glove.
Her cooking justified all that Mr. Larsen had said of it, and Thea had never been so well nourished before. The daughter, Mrs. Andersen,-Irene, her mother called her,-was a different sort of woman altogether.
She was perhaps forty years old, angular, big-boned, with large, thin features, light-blue eyes, and dry, yellow hair, the bang tightly frizzed.
She was pale, anaemic, and sentimental.
She had married the youngest son of a rich, arrogant Swedish family who were lumber merchants in St. Paul.
There she dwelt during her married life.
Oscar Andersen was a strong, full-blooded fellow who had counted on a long life and had been rather careless about his business affairs.
He was killed by the explosion of a steam boiler in the mills, and his brothers managed to prove that he had very little stock in the big business.
They had strongly disapproved of his marriage and they agreed among themselves that they were entirely justified in defrauding his widow, who, they said, "would only marry again and give some fellow a good thing of it.
This experience had given her sentimental nature an incurable hurt.
Something withered away in her.
Her head had a downward droop; her step was soft and apologetic, even in her mother's house, and her smile had the sickly, uncertain flicker that so often comes from a secret humiliation.
She had to go to his eldest brother for the key when she went to say good-bye to his grave.
There she spent most of her time, doing fancywork or writing letters to sympathizing German friends in St. Paul, surrounded by keepsakes and photographs of the burly Oscar Andersen.
It sometimes annoyed Thea very much to hear her insinuating knock on the door, her flurried explanation of why she had come, as she backed toward the stairs.
Mrs. Andersen admired Thea greatly.
She thought it a distinction to be even a "temporary soprano"-Thea called herself so quite seriously-in the Swedish Church.
She also thought it distinguished to be a pupil of Harsanyi's.
She considered Thea very handsome, very Swedish, very talented.
She fluttered about the upper floor when Thea was practicing. In short, she tried to make a heroine of her, just as Tillie Kronborg had always done, and Thea was conscious of something of the sort.
Her Moonstone party dress might do to wear in the evening, but she must have one frock that could stand the light of day.
She, of course, knew nothing about Chicago dressmakers, so she let Mrs. Andersen take her to a German woman whom she recommended warmly.
The German dressmaker was excitable and dramatic.
Concert dresses, she said, were her specialty.
She and Mrs. Andersen together achieved a costume which would have warmed Tillie Kronborg's heart.
It was clearly intended for a woman of forty, with violent tastes.
There seemed to be a piece of every known fabric in it somewhere.
When it came home, and was spread out on her huge bed, Thea looked it over and told herself candidly that it was "a horror.
However, her money was gone, and there was nothing to do but make the best of the dress.
She never wore it except, as she said, "to sing in," as if it were an unbecoming uniform.
When Thea sat down to take her first lesson from him, she had never heard a work by Beethoven or a composition by Chopin.
She knew their names vaguely.
Wunsch had been a musician once, long before he wandered into Moonstone, but when Thea awoke his interest there was not much left of him.
From him Thea had learned something about the works of Gluck and Bach, and he used to play her some of the compositions of Schumann.
In his trunk he had a mutilated score of the F sharp minor sonata, which he had heard Clara Schumann play at a festival in Leipsic.
Though his powers of execution were at such a low ebb, he used to play at this sonata for his pupil and managed to give her some idea of its beauty.
When Wunsch was a young man, it was still daring to like Schumann; enthusiasm for his work was considered an expression of youthful waywardness.
Perhaps that was why Wunsch remembered him best. Thea studied some of the _Kinderszenen_ with him, as well as some little sonatas by Mozart and Clementi.
She had never heard a symphony orchestra.
The literature of the piano was an undiscovered world to her.
He wondered how she had been able to work so hard when she knew so little of what she was working toward.
She had been taught according to the old Stuttgart method; stiff back, stiff elbows, a very formal position of the hands.
The best thing about her preparation was that she had developed an unusual power of work.
He noticed at once her way of charging at difficulties.
She ran to meet them as if they were foes she had long been seeking, seized them as if they were destined for her and she for them.
Whatever she did well, she took for granted.
Her eagerness aroused all the young Hungarian's chivalry.
Instinctively one went to the rescue of a creature who had so much to overcome and who struggled so hard.
He used to tell his wife that Miss Kronborg's hour took more out of him than half a dozen other lessons.
It was always interesting to play for her.
Sometimes she was so silent that he wondered, when she left him, whether she had got anything out of it.
But a week later, two weeks later, she would give back his idea again in a way that set him vibrating. All this was very well for Harsanyi; an interesting variation in the routine of teaching.
But for Thea Kronborg, that winter was almost beyond enduring.
She always remembered it as the happiest and wildest and saddest of her life.
Things came too fast for her; she had not had enough preparation.
She said something of this kind once to her teacher, in the midst of a bitter struggle.
Harsanyi turned the light of his wonderful eye upon her-poor fellow, he had but one, though that was set in such a handsome head-and said slowly: "Every artist makes himself born.
It is very much harder than the other time, and longer.
Your mother did not bring anything into the world to play piano.
That you must bring into the world yourself." This comforted Thea temporarily, for it seemed to give her a chance. But a great deal of the time she was comfortless.
Her letters to Dr. Archie were brief and businesslike.
She was not apt to chatter much, even in the stimulating company of people she liked, and to chatter on paper was simply impossible for her.
If she tried to write him anything definite about her work, she immediately scratched it out as being only partially true, or not true at all.
That sonata will keep; it won't run away.
Even if you and I should not waken up to-morrow, it will be there." Thea turned to him fiercely.
No, it isn't here unless I have it-not for me," she cried passionately.
Only what I hold in my two hands is there for me!" Harsanyi made no reply.
He took a deep breath and sat down again.
The second movement now, quietly, with the shoulders relaxed." There were hours, too, of great exaltation; when she was at her best and became a part of what she was doing and ceased to exist in any other sense.
There were other times when she was so shattered by ideas that she could do nothing worth while; when they trampled over her like an army and she felt as if she were bleeding to death under them.
She sometimes came home from a late lesson so exhausted that she could eat no supper.
If she tried to eat, she was ill afterward.
She used to throw herself upon the bed and lie there in the dark, not thinking, not feeling, but evaporating.
That same night, perhaps, she would waken up rested and calm, and as she went over her work in her mind, the passages seemed to become something of themselves, to take a sort of pattern in the darkness.
Then, by sticking to it, she could always do what she set out to do.
Now, everything that she really wanted was impossible; a _cantabile_ like Harsanyi's, for instance, instead of her own cloudy tone.
No use telling her she might have it in ten years.
She wondered how she had ever found other things interesting: books, "Anna Karenina"-all that seemed so unreal and on the outside of things.
And while she walked she cried.
There was scarcely a street in the neighborhood that she had not cried up and down before that winter was over.
The thing that used to lie under her cheek, that sat so warmly over her heart when she glided away from the sand hills that autumn morning, was far from her.
He saw in her discontent a curious definition of character.
He would have said that a girl with so much musical feeling, so intelligent, with good training of eye and hand, would, when thus suddenly introduced to the great literature of the piano, have found boundless happiness.
But he soon learned that she was not able to forget her own poverty in the richness of the world he opened to her.
Often when he played to her, her face was the picture of restless misery.
She would sit crouching forward, her elbows on her knees, her brows drawn together and her gray-green eyes smaller than ever, reduced to mere pin-points of cold, piercing light.
Sometimes, while she listened, she would swallow hard, two or three times, and look nervously from left to right, drawing her shoulders together.
The little daughter, Tanya, liked to touch Miss Kronborg's yellow hair and pat it, saying, "Dolly, dolly," because it was of a color much oftener seen on dolls than on people.
But if Harsanyi opened the piano and sat down to play, Miss Kronborg gradually drew away from the children, retreated to a corner and became sullen or troubled.
Mrs. Harsanyi noticed this, also, and thought it very strange behavior. Another thing that puzzled Harsanyi was Thea's apparent lack of curiosity.
Several times he offered to give her tickets to concerts, but she said she was too tired or that it "knocked her out to be up late.
Harsanyi did not know that she was singing in a choir, and had often to sing at funerals, neither did he realize how much her work with him stirred her and exhausted her.
Once, just as she was leaving his studio, he called her back and told her he could give her some tickets that had been sent him for Emma Juch that evening.
Thea fingered the black wool on the edge of her plush cape and replied, "Oh, thank you, Mr. Harsanyi, but I have to wash my hair to-night." Mrs. Harsanyi liked Miss Kronborg thoroughly.
She saw in her the making of a pupil who would reflect credit upon Harsanyi.
She felt that the girl could be made to look strikingly handsome, and that she had the kind of personality which takes hold of audiences.
Moreover, Miss Kronborg was not in the least sentimental about her husband.
Sometimes from the show pupils one had to endure a good deal.
I like that girl," she used to say, when Harsanyi told her of one of Thea's _gaucheries_. "She doesn't sigh every time the wind blows.
With her one swallow doesn't make a summer." Thea told them very little about herself.
She was not naturally communicative, and she found it hard to feel confidence in new people. She did not know why, but she could not talk to Harsanyi as she could to Dr. Archie, or to Johnny and Mrs. Tellamantez.
She arrived early, to have time to play with the children before they went to bed.
Mrs. Harsanyi took her into her own room and helped her take off her country "fascinator" and her clumsy plush cape. Thea had bought this cape at a big department store and had paid $16.50 for it.
As she had never paid more than ten dollars for a coat before, that seemed to her a large price.
It was very heavy and not very warm, ornamented with a showy pattern in black disks, and trimmed around the collar and the edges with some kind of black wool that "crocked" badly in snow or rain.
It was lined with a cotton stuff called "farmer's satin.
Mrs. Harsanyi was one woman in a thousand.
As she lifted this cape from Thea's shoulders and laid it on her white bed, she wished that her husband did not have to charge pupils like this one for their lessons.
Thea wore her Moonstone party dress, white organdie, made with a "V" neck and elbow sleeves, and a blue sash.
She looked very pretty in it, and around her throat she had a string of pink coral and tiny white shells that Ray once brought her from Los Angeles.
Mrs. Harsanyi noticed that she wore high heavy shoes which needed blacking.
The choir in Mr. Larsen's church stood behind a railing, so Thea did not pay much attention to her shoes. "You have nothing to do to your hair," Mrs. Harsanyi said kindly, as Thea turned to the mirror.
However it happens to lie, it's always pretty.
I admire it as much as Tanya does." Thea glanced awkwardly away from her and looked stern, but Mrs. Harsanyi knew that she was pleased.
They went into the living-room, behind the studio, where the two children were playing on the big rug before the coal grate.
Andor, the boy, was six, a sturdy, handsome child, and the little girl was four.
She came tripping to meet Thea, looking like a little doll in her white net dress-her mother made all her clothes.
Thea picked her up and hugged her.
Mrs. Harsanyi excused herself and went to the dining-room.
She kept only one maid and did a good deal of the housework herself, besides cooking her husband's favorite dishes for him.
She was still under thirty, a slender, graceful woman, gracious, intelligent, and capable.
She adapted herself to circumstances with a well-bred ease which solved many of her husband's difficulties, and kept him, as he said, from feeling cheap and down at the heel.
No musician ever had a better wife.
Unfortunately her beauty was of a very frail and impressionable kind, and she was beginning to lose it.
She showed him new ways to lay his tracks and how to make switches, set up his Noah's ark village for stations and packed the animals in the open coal cars to send them to the stockyards.
He sat down and made pretense of glancing at the evening paper, but he soon dropped it.
Her fingers were very supple, and she could make a duck and a cow and a sheep and a fox and a rabbit and even an elephant.
Harsanyi, from his low chair, watched them, smiling.
The boy was on his knees, jumping up and down with the excitement of guessing the beasts, and Tanya sat with her feet tucked under her and clapped her frail little hands.
Thea's profile, in the lamplight, teased his fancy.
Where had he seen a head like it before? When dinner was announced, little Andor took Thea's hand and walked to the dining-room with her.
The children always had dinner with their parents and behaved very nicely at table.
Mamma," said Andor seriously as he climbed into his chair and tucked his napkin into the collar of his blouse, "Miss Kronborg's hands are every kind of animal there is." His father laughed.
He had a theory that if the soup went well, the dinner would go well; but if the soup was poor, all was lost.
There were always flowers, too.
To-night there was a little orange tree, with oranges on it, that one of Harsanyi's pupils had sent him at Thanksgiving time.
After Harsanyi had finished his soup and a glass of red Hungarian wine, he lost his fagged look and became cordial and witty.
He was to have a very brilliant career, but he did not know it then.
Theodore Thomas was perhaps the only man in Chicago who felt that Harsanyi might have a great future. Harsanyi belonged to the softer Slavic type, and was more like a Pole than a Hungarian.
He was tall, slender, active, with sloping, graceful shoulders and long arms.
His head was very fine, strongly and delicately modelled, and, as Thea put it, "so independent.
A lock of his thick brown hair usually hung over his forehead.
His eye was wonderful; full of light and fire when he was interested, soft and thoughtful when he was tired or melancholy.
The meaning and power of two very fine eyes must all have gone into this one-the right one, fortunately, the one next his audience when he played.
Andor ran away and crossed the ocean with an uncle, who smuggled him through the port as one of his own many children.
The explosion in which Andor was hurt killed a score of people, and he was thought lucky to get off with an eye.
He still had a clipping from a Pittsburg paper, giving a list of the dead and injured.
He appeared as "Harsanyi, Andor, left eye and slight injuries about the head.
That was his first American "notice"; and he kept it.
I have to be at a choir rehearsal in the afternoon, to get ready for the Christmas music, and I expect it will last until late." Harsanyi put down his fork and looked up.
You sing in a church?" "Yes.
A little Swedish church, over on the North side." "Why did you not tell us?" "Oh, I'm only a temporary.
The regular soprano is not well." "How long have you been singing there?" "Ever since I came.
I had to get a position of some kind," Thea explained, flushing, "and the preacher took me on.
He runs the choir himself.
He knew my father, and I guess he took me to oblige." Harsanyi tapped the tablecloth with the ends of his fingers.
But why did you never tell us?
Why are you so reticent with us?" Thea looked shyly at him from under her brows.
Well, it's certainly not very interesting.
It's only a little church.
I only do it for business reasons." "What do you mean?
Don't you like to sing?
Don't you sing well?" "I like it well enough, but, of course, I don't know anything about singing.
I guess that's why I never said anything about it.
Anybody that's got a voice can sing in a little church like that." Harsanyi laughed softly-a little scornfully, Thea thought.
So you have a voice, have you?" Thea hesitated, looked intently at the candles and then at Harsanyi. "Yes," she said firmly; "I have got some, anyway." "Good girl," said Mrs. Harsanyi, nodding and smiling at Thea.
You must let us hear you sing after dinner." This remark seemingly closed the subject, and when the coffee was brought they began to talk of other things.
The studio was the only spacious room.
The Harsanyis were poor, and it was due to Mrs. Harsanyi's good management that their lives, even in hard times, moved along with dignity and order.
She had long ago found out that bills or debts of any kind frightened her husband and crippled his working power.
He said they were like bars on the windows, and shut out the future; they meant that just so many hundred dollars' worth of his life was debilitated and exhausted before he got to it.
So Mrs. Harsanyi saw to it that they never owed anything. Harsanyi was not extravagant, though he was sometimes careless about money.
Quiet and order and his wife's good taste were the things that meant most to him.
After these, good food, good cigars, a little good wine.
He wore his clothes until they were shabby, until his wife had to ask the tailor to come to the house and measure him for new ones.
While his wife and his pupil talked, Harsanyi sank into a _chaise longue_ in which he sometimes snatched a few moments' rest between his lessons, and smoked.
He sat well out of the circle of the lamplight, his feet to the fire.
His feet were slender and well shaped, always elegantly shod.
Much of the grace of his movements was due to the fact that his feet were almost as sure and flexible as his hands. He listened to the conversation with amusement.
He admired his wife's tact and kindness with crude young people; she taught them so much without seeming to be instructing.
When the clock struck nine, Thea said she must be going home. Harsanyi rose and flung away his cigarette.
We have just begun the evening.
Now you are going to sing for us.
I have been waiting for you to recover from dinner.
Come, what shall it be?" he crossed to the piano. Thea laughed and shook her head, locking her elbows still tighter about her knees.
Thank you, Mr. Harsanyi, but if you really make me sing, I'll accompany myself.
You couldn't stand it to play the sort of things I have to sing." As Harsanyi still pointed to the chair at the piano, she left her stool and went to it, while he returned to his _chaise longue_.
Thea looked at the keyboard uneasily for a moment, then she began "Come, ye Disconsolate," the hymn Wunsch had always liked to hear her sing.
Mrs. Harsanyi glanced questioningly at her husband, but he was looking intently at the toes of his boots, shading his forehead with his long white hand.
When Thea finished the hymn she did not turn around, but immediately began "The Ninety and Nine.
That's about enough, isn't it? That song got me my job.
The preacher said it was sympathetic," she minced the word, remembering Mr. Larsen's manner. Harsanyi drew himself up in his chair, resting his elbows on the low arms.
That is better suited to your voice.
Your upper tones are good, above G.
I must teach you some songs.
Don't you know anything-pleasant?" Thea shook her head ruefully.
Let me see-Perhaps," she turned to the piano and put her hands on the keys.
I used to sing this for Mr. Wunsch a long while ago.
It's for contralto, but I'll try it.
She frowned at the keyboard a moment, played the few introductory measures, and began: "Ach, ich habe sie verloren," She had not sung it for a long time, and it came back like an old friendship.
When she finished, Harsanyi sprang from his chair and dropped lightly upon his toes, a kind of _entre-chat_ that he sometimes executed when he formed a sudden resolution, or when he was about to follow a pure intuition, against reason.
His wife said that when he gave that spring he was shot from the bow of his ancestors, and now when he left his chair in that manner she knew he was intensely interested.
He went quickly to the piano. "Sing that again.
There is nothing the matter with your low voice, my girl.
I will play for you.
Without looking at her he began the accompaniment.
Thea drew back her shoulders, relaxed them instinctively, and sang. When she finished the aria, Harsanyi beckoned her nearer.
Sing _ah-ah_ for me, as I indicate.
He kept his right hand on the keyboard and put his left to her throat, placing the tips of his delicate fingers over her larynx.
Again,-until your breath is gone.-Trill between the two tones, always; good!
Not so good, is it?
F is always a hard one.-Now, try the half-tone.-That's right, nothing difficult about it.-Now, pianissimo, _ah-ah_.
Now, swell it, _ah-ah_.-Again, follow my hand.-Now, carry it down.-Anybody ever tell you anything about your breathing?" "Mr. Larsen says I have an unusually long breath," Thea replied with spirit. Harsanyi smiled.
So you have, so you have.
That was what I meant.
Now, once more; carry it up and then down, _ah-ah_.
He put his hand back to her throat and sat with his head bent, his one eye closed.
He loved to hear a big voice throb in a relaxed, natural throat, and he was thinking that no one had ever felt this voice vibrate before.
It was like a wild bird that had flown into his studio on Middleton Street from goodness knew how far!
No one knew that it had come, or even that it existed; least of all the strange, crude girl in whose throat it beat its passionate wings.
What a simple thing it was, he reflected; why had he never guessed it before?
Everything about her indicated it,-the big mouth, the wide jaw and chin, the strong white teeth, the deep laugh.
The machine was so simple and strong, seemed to be so easily operated.
She sang from the bottom of herself.
Her breath came from down where her laugh came from, the deep laugh which Mrs. Harsanyi had once called "the laugh of the people.
A relaxed throat, a voice that lay on the breath, that had never been forced off the breath; it rose and fell in the air-column like the little balls which are put to shine in the jet of a fountain.
You must be tired, Miss Kronborg." When she replied, she startled him; he had forgotten how hard and full of burs her speaking voice was.
No," she said, "singing never tires me." Harsanyi pushed back his hair with a nervous hand.
I don't know much about the voice, but I shall take liberties and teach you some good songs.
I think you have a very interesting voice." "I'm glad if you like it.
All I really know about that girl is that she tires me to death.
We must not have her often.
If I did not have my living to make, then-" he dropped into a chair and closed his eyes.
How tired I am. What a voice!" IV After that evening Thea's work with Harsanyi changed somewhat.
He insisted that she should study some songs with him, and after almost every lesson he gave up half an hour of his own time to practicing them with her.
He did not pretend to know much about voice production, but so far, he thought, she had acquired no really injurious habits.
A healthy and powerful organ had found its own method, which was not a bad one.
He wished to find out a good deal before he recommended a vocal teacher.
He never told Thea what he thought about her voice, and made her general ignorance of anything worth singing his pretext for the trouble he took.
That was in the beginning.
After the first few lessons his own pleasure and hers were pretext enough.
The singing came at the end of the lesson hour, and they both treated it as a form of relaxation. Harsanyi did not say much even to his wife about his discovery.
He brooded upon it in a curious way.
He found that these unscientific singing lessons stimulated him in his own study.
He had never got so much back for himself from any pupil as he did from Miss Kronborg.
From the first she had stimulated him; something in her personality invariably affected him.
Now that he was feeling his way toward her voice, he found her more interesting than ever before.
She lifted the tedium of the winter for him, gave him curious fancies and reveries.
Musically, she was sympathetic to him. Why all this was true, he never asked himself.
He had learned that one must take where and when one can the mysterious mental irritant that rouses one's imagination; that it is not to be had by order.
She often wearied him, but she never bored him.
Under her crudeness and brusque hardness, he felt there was a nature quite different, of which he never got so much as a hint except when she was at the piano, or when she sang.
It was toward this hidden creature that he was trying, for his own pleasure, to find his way.
How she sang it mattered only to him and to her.
He was playing his own game now, without interference; he suspected that he could not do so always. When she finished the song, she looked back over her shoulder at him and spoke thoughtfully.
That wasn't right, at the end, was it?" "No, that should be an open, flowing tone, something like this,"-he waved his fingers rapidly in the air.
You get the idea?" "No, I don't.
Seems a queer ending, after the rest." Harsanyi corked his little bottle and dropped it into the pocket of his velvet coat.
There you have your open, flowing tone." Thea looked intently at the music.
I see," she said dully.
Oh, I see!" she repeated quickly and turned to him a glowing countenance.
It is the river.-Oh, yes, I get it now!
She looked at him but long enough to catch his glance, then turned to the piano again.
Harsanyi was never quite sure where the light came from when her face suddenly flashed out at him in that way.
She went at the song again: "Ich weiss nicht, was soll es bedeuten, Das ich so traurig bin." A kind of happiness vibrated in her voice.
Harsanyi noticed how much and how unhesitatingly she changed her delivery of the whole song, the first part as well as the last.
He had often noticed that she could not think a thing out in passages.
Until she saw it as a whole, she wandered like a blind man surrounded by torments.
After she once had her "revelation," after she got the idea that to her-not always to him-explained everything, then she went forward rapidly.
But she was not always easy to help.
She was sometimes impervious to suggestion; she would stare at him as if she were deaf and ignore everything he told her to do.
I shan't be able to get it out of my head to-night." Thea laughed tolerantly as she began to gather up her music.
Why, I thought you had gone, Mr. Harsanyi.
Do you know," he said in a tone so intimate and confidential that he might have been speaking to himself,-"do you know, I like to see Miss Kronborg get hold of an idea.
In spite of being so talented, she's not quick.
But when she does get an idea, it fills her up to the eyes.
She had my room so reeking of a song this afternoon that I couldn't stay there." Mrs. Harsanyi looked up quickly, "'Die Lorelei,' you mean?
One couldn't think of anything else anywhere in the house.
I thought she was possessed.
But don't you think her voice is wonderful sometimes?" Harsanyi tasted his wine slowly.
My dear, I've told you before that I don't know what I think about Miss Kronborg, except that I'm glad there are not two of her.
I sometimes wonder whether she is not glad.
Fresh as she is at it all, I've occasionally fancied that, if she knew how, she would like to-diminish.
She was, as Harsanyi said, incurious.
Her work took most of her time, and she found that she had to sleep a good deal.
It had never before been so hard to get up in the morning.
She had the bother of caring for her room, and she had to build her fire and bring up her coal.
Her routine was frequently interrupted by a message from Mr. Larsen summoning her to sing at a funeral.
Every funeral took half a day, and the time had to be made up.
Indeed, she shunned them, as places where one was sure to be parted from one's money in some way.
She was nervous about counting her change, and she could not accustom herself to having her purchases sent to her address.
She felt much safer with her bundles under her arm. During this first winter Thea got no city consciousness.
Chicago was simply a wilderness through which one had to find one's way.
She felt no interest in the general briskness and zest of the crowds.
The crash and scramble of that big, rich, appetent Western city she did not take in at all, except to notice that the noise of the drays and street-cars tired her.
The jewelers' windows, too, had a strong attraction for her-she had always liked bright stones.
When she went into the city she used to brave the biting lake winds and stand gazing in at the displays of diamonds and pearls and emeralds; the tiaras and necklaces and earrings, on white velvet.
These seemed very well worth while to her, things worth coveting. Mrs. Lorch and Mrs. Andersen often told each other it was strange that Miss Kronborg had so little initiative about "visiting points of interest.
When Thea came to live with them she had expressed a wish to see two places: Montgomery Ward and Company's big mail-order store, and the packing-houses, to which all the hogs and cattle that went through Moonstone were bound.
One of Mrs. Lorch's lodgers worked in a packing-house, and Mrs. Andersen brought Thea word that she had spoken to Mr. Eckman and he would gladly take her to Packingtown.
Eckman was a toughish young Swede, and he thought it would be something of a lark to take a pretty girl through the slaughter-houses.
Thea neither grew faint nor clung to the arm he kept offering her.
That night he told his roommate that he "could have kissed her as easy as rolling off a log, but she wasn't worth the trouble.
Thea, who always felt that she was behindhand in courtesy to Mrs. Andersen, thought that here was an opportunity to show interest without committing herself to anything.
Where is that, the Institute?" she asked absently. Mrs. Andersen clasped her napkin in both hands.
Our beautiful Art Institute on Michigan Avenue?
Do you mean to say you have never visited it?" "Oh, is it the place with the big lions out in front?
I remember; I saw it when I went to Montgomery Ward's.
Yes, I thought the lions were beautiful." "But the pictures!
Didn't you visit the galleries?" "No. The sign outside said it was a pay-day.
I've always meant to go back, but I haven't happened to be down that way since." Mrs. Lorch and Mrs. Andersen looked at each other.
The old mother spoke, fixing her shining little eyes upon Thea across the table.
Ah, but Miss Kronborg, there are old masters!
Oh, many of them, such as you could not see anywhere out of Europe." "And Corots," breathed Mrs. Andersen, tilting her head feelingly.
Such examples of the Barbizon school!
This was meaningless to Thea, who did not read the art columns of the Sunday _Inter-Ocean_ as Mrs. Andersen did. "Oh, I'm going there some day," she reassured them.
She did not come out again until the closing hour.
In the street-car, on the long cold ride home, while she sat staring at the waistcoat buttons of a fat strap-hanger, she had a serious reckoning with herself.
She seldom thought about her way of life, about what she ought or ought not to do; usually there was but one obvious and important thing to be done.
But that afternoon she remonstrated with herself severely.
She told herself that she was missing a great deal; that she ought to be more willing to take advice and to go to see things.
She was sorry that she had let months pass without going to the Art Institute.
That building was a place in which she could relax and play, and she could hardly ever play now.
On the whole, she spent more time with the casts than with the pictures.
They were at once more simple and more perplexing; and some way they seemed more important, harder to overlook.
It never occurred to her to buy a catalogue, so she called most of the casts by names she made up for them.
Some of them she knew; the Dying Gladiator she had read about in "Childe Harold" almost as long ago as she could remember; he was strongly associated with Dr. Archie and childish illnesses.
The Venus di Milo puzzled her; she could not see why people thought her so beautiful.
She told herself over and over that she did not think the Apollo Belvedere "at all handsome.
There she liked best the ones that told stories.
The Pasha was seated on a rug, beside a green candle almost as big as a telegraph pole, and before him was stretched his dead tiger, a splendid beast, and there were pink roses scattered about him.
She loved, too, a picture of some boys bringing in a newborn calf on a litter, the cow walking beside it and licking it.
The Corot which hung next to this painting she did not like or dislike; she never saw it. But in that same room there was a picture-oh, that was the thing she ran upstairs so fast to see!
She imagined that nobody cared for it but herself, and that it waited for her.
That was a picture indeed.
She liked even the name of it, "The Song of the Lark." The flat country, the early morning light, the wet fields, the look in the girl's heavy face-well, they were all hers, anyhow, whatever was there.
She told herself that that picture was "right.
Just what she meant by this, it would take a clever person to explain.
One sunny morning the apple trees in Mrs. Lorch's back yard burst into bloom, and for the first time in months Thea dressed without building a fire.
The morning shone like a holiday, and for her it was to be a holiday.
There was in the air that sudden, treacherous softness which makes the Poles who work in the packing-houses get drunk.
She would make her work light that morning, she told herself.
She would go to the concert full of energy.
When she set off, after dinner, Mrs. Lorch, who knew Chicago weather, prevailed upon her to take her cape.
She had been to so few concerts that the great house, the crowd of people, and the lights, all had a stimulating effect.
She was surprised to see so many men in the audience, and wondered how they could leave their business in the afternoon.
During the first number Thea was so much interested in the orchestra itself, in the men, the instruments, the volume of sound, that she paid little attention to what they were playing.
Her excitement impaired her power of listening. She kept saying to herself, "Now I must stop this foolishness and listen; I may never hear this again"; but her mind was like a glass that is hard to focus.
She was not ready to listen until the second number, Dvorak's Symphony in E minor, called on the programme, "From the New World.
The first theme had scarcely been given out when her mind became clear; instant composure fell upon her, and with it came the power of concentration.
This was music she could understand, music from the New World indeed!
Here were the sand hills, the grasshoppers and locusts, all the things that wakened and chirped in the early morning; the reaching and reaching of high plains, the immeasurable yearning of all flat lands.
But she sat still, scarcely knowing where she was, because her mind had been far away and had not yet come back to her.
She was startled when the orchestra began to play again-the entry of the gods into Walhalla. She heard it as people hear things in their sleep.
She knew scarcely anything about the Wagner operas.
She had a vague idea that "Rhinegold" was about the strife between gods and men; she had read something about it in Mr. Haweis's book long ago.
Too tired to follow the orchestra with much understanding, she crouched down in her seat and closed her eyes.
The cold, stately measures of the Walhalla music rang out, far away; the rainbow bridge throbbed out into the air, under it the wailing of the Rhine daughters and the singing of the Rhine.
But Thea was sunk in twilight; it was all going on in another world.
A furious gale was beating over the city from Lake Michigan.
The streets were full of cold, hurrying, angry people, running for street-cars and barking at each other.
The sun was setting in a clear, windy sky, that flamed with red as if there were a great fire somewhere on the edge of the city.
For almost the first time Thea was conscious of the city itself, of the congestion of life all about her, of the brutality and power of those streams that flowed in the streets, threatening to drive one under.
People jostled her, ran into her, poked her aside with their elbows, uttering angry exclamations. She got on the wrong car and was roughly ejected by the conductor at a windy corner, in front of a saloon.
She stood there dazed and shivering.
The cars passed, screaming as they rounded curves, but either they were full to the doors, or were bound for places where she did not want to go.
Her hands were so cold that she took off her tight kid gloves.
The street lights began to gleam in the dusk.
A young man came out of the saloon and stood eyeing her questioningly while he lit a cigarette.
Looking for a friend to-night?" he asked.
Thea drew up the collar of her cape and walked on a few paces.
The young man shrugged his shoulders and drifted away. Thea came back to the corner and stood there irresolutely.
An old man approached her.
He, too, seemed to be waiting for a car.
He wore an overcoat with a black fur collar, his gray mustache was waxed into little points, and his eyes were watery.
He kept thrusting his face up near hers.
Her hat blew off and he ran after it-a stiff, pitiful skip he had-and brought it back to her.
Then, while she was pinning her hat on, her cape blew up, and he held it down for her, looking at her intently.
His face worked as if he were going to cry or were frightened.
He leaned over and whispered something to her.
It struck her as curious that he was really quite timid, like an old beggar.
Oh, let me _Alone!_" she cried miserably between her teeth.
He vanished, disappeared like the Devil in a play.
But in the mean time something had got away from her; she could not remember how the violins came in after the horns, just there.
When her cape blew up, perhaps-Why did these men torment her?
A cloud of dust blew in her face and blinded her.
If one had that, the world became one's enemy; people, buildings, wagons, cars, rushed at one to crush it under, to make one let go of it.
Thea glared round her at the crowds, the ugly, sprawling streets, the long lines of lights, and she was not crying now.
Her eyes were brighter than even Harsanyi had ever seen them.
All these things and people were no longer remote and negligible; they had to be met, they were lined up against her, they were there to take something from her. Very well; they should never have it.
They might trample her to death, but they should never have it.
As long as she lived that ecstasy was going to be hers.
She would live for it, work for it, die for it; but she was going to have it, time after time, height after height.
She could hear the crash of the orchestra again, and she rose on the brasses.
She would have it, what the trumpets were singing!
She would have it, have it,-it!
The conductor welcomed him with a hearty hand-grip and threw off the overcoat he had just put on.
He pushed Harsanyi into a chair and sat down at his burdened desk, pointing to the piles of papers and railway folders upon it. "Another tour, clear to the coast.
This traveling is the part of my work that grinds me, Andor.
You know what it means: bad food, dirt, noise, exhaustion for the men and for me.
I'm not so young as I once was.
It's time I quit the highway.
This is the last tour, I swear!" "Then I'm sorry for the 'highway.
I remember when I first heard you in Pittsburg, long ago.
It was a life-line you threw me.
It's about one of the people along your highway that I've come to see you.
Whom do you consider the best teacher for voice in Chicago?" Mr. Thomas frowned and pulled his heavy mustache.
Let me see; I suppose on the whole Madison Bowers is the best.
He's intelligent, and he had good training.
I don't like him." Harsanyi nodded.
I thought there was no one else.
I don't like him, either, so I hesitated.
But I suppose he must do, for the present." "Have you found anything promising?
One of your own students?" "Yes, sir.
A young Swedish girl from somewhere in Colorado.
She is very talented, and she seems to me to have a remarkable voice." "High voice?" "I think it will be; though her low voice has a beautiful quality, very individual.
She has had no instruction in voice at all, and I shrink from handing her over to anybody; her own instinct about it has been so good.
It is one of those voices that manages itself easily, without thinning as it goes up; good breathing and perfect relaxation.
But she must have a teacher, of course.
There is a break in the middle voice, so that the voice does not all work together; an unevenness." Thomas looked up.
Curious; that cleft often happens with the Swedes.
Some of their best singers have had it.
It always reminds me of the space you so often see between their front teeth.
Is she strong physically?" Harsanyi's eye flashed.
He lifted his hand before him and clenched it. "Like a horse, like a tree!
Every time I give her a lesson, I lose a pound.
She goes after what she wants." "Intelligent, you say?
Musically intelligent?" "Yes; but no cultivation whatever.
She came to me like a fine young savage, a book with nothing written in it.
That is why I feel the responsibility of directing her.
Harsanyi paused and crushed his soft gray hat over his knee.
She would interest you, Mr. Thomas," he added slowly.
She has a quality-very individual." "Yes; the Scandinavians are apt to have that, too.
She can't go to Germany, I suppose?" "Not now, at any rate.
She is poor." Thomas frowned again "I don't think Bowers a really first-rate man. He's too petty to be really first-rate; in his nature, I mean.
But I dare say he's the best you can do, if you can't give her time enough yourself." Harsanyi waved his hand.
Oh, the time is nothing-she may have all she wants.
But I cannot teach her to sing." "Might not come amiss if you made a musician of her, however," said Mr. Thomas dryly. "I have done my best.
But I can only play with a voice, and this is not a voice to be played with.
I think she will be a musician, whatever happens.
She is not quick, but she is solid, real; not like these others.
My wife says that with that girl one swallow does not make a summer." Mr. Thomas laughed.
Tell Mrs. Harsanyi that her remark conveys something to me.
Don't let yourself get too much interested.
Voices are so often disappointing; especially women's voices.
So much chance about it, so many factors." "Perhaps that is why they interest one.
All the intelligence and talent in the world can't make a singer.
The voice is a wild thing.
It can't be bred in captivity.
It is a sport, like the silver fox.
It happens." Mr. Thomas smiled into Harsanyi's gleaming eye.
I'm sorry I'm leaving so soon.
I could advise you better if I had heard her.
I can sometimes give a singer suggestions. I've worked so much with them." "You're the only conductor I know who is not snobbish about singers." Harsanyi spoke warmly. "Dear me, why should I be?
They've learned from me, and I've learned from them.
As they rose, Thomas took the younger man affectionately by the arm.
Tell me about that wife of yours.
Is she well, and as lovely as ever?
Come to see me oftener, when I get back.
I miss it when you don't." The two men left the Auditorium Building together.
Even a short talk with Thomas always stimulated him.
When he came into a town, he went about all day tacking up posters announcing his concert in the evening.
Before the concert, he stood at the door taking in the admission money until his audience had arrived, and then he went on the platform and played.
It was a lazy, hand-to-mouth existence, and Thomas said he must have got to like that easy way of living and the relaxing Southern atmosphere.
At any rate, when he got back to New York in the fall, he was rather torpid; perhaps he had been growing too fast.
From this adolescent drowsiness the lad was awakened by two voices, by two women who sang in New York in 1851,-Jenny Lind and Henrietta Sontag.
They were the first great artists he had ever heard, and he never forgot his debt to them. As he said, "It was not voice and execution alone.
There was a greatness about them.
They were great women, great artists.
They opened a new world to me.
Night after night he went to hear them, striving to reproduce the quality of their tone upon his violin.
From that time his idea about strings was completely changed, and on his violin he tried always for the singing, vibrating tone, instead of the loud and somewhat harsh tone then prevalent among even the best German violinists.
In later years he often advised violinists to study singing, and singers to study violin.
He told Harsanyi that he got his first conception of tone quality from Jenny Lind. "But, of course," he added, "the great thing I got from Lind and Sontag was the indefinite, not the definite, thing.
For an impressionable boy, their inspiration was incalculable.
They gave me my first feeling for the Italian style-but I could never say how much they gave me.
At that age, such influences are actually creative.
Before the hour was over, he pushed back his chair and said resolutely, "I am not in the mood, Miss Kronborg.
I have something on my mind, and I must talk to you.
When do you intend to go home?" Thea turned to him in surprise.
The first of June, about.
Mr. Larsen will not need me after that, and I have not much money ahead.
I shall work hard this summer, though." "And to-day is the first of May; May-day.
Harsanyi leaned forward, his elbows on his knees, his hands locked between them.
Yes, I must talk to you about something.
I have asked Madison Bowers to let me bring you to him on Thursday, at your usual lesson-time.
He is the best vocal teacher in Chicago, and it is time you began to work seriously with your voice." Thea's brow wrinkled.
You mean take lessons of Bowers?" Harsanyi nodded, without lifting his head. "But I can't, Mr. Harsanyi.
I haven't got the time, and, besides-" she blushed and drew her shoulders up stiffly-"besides, I can't afford to pay two teachers.
Thea felt that she had blurted this out in the worst possible way, and she turned back to the keyboard to hide her chagrin. "I know that.
I don't mean that you shall pay two teachers.
After you go to Bowers you will not need me.
I need scarcely tell you that I shan't be happy at losing you." Thea turned to him, hurt and angry.
But I don't want to go to Bowers. I don't want to leave you.
Don't I work hard enough? I'm sure you teach people that don't try half as hard." Harsanyi rose to his feet.
Don't misunderstand me, Miss Kronborg.
You interest me more than any pupil I have.
I have been thinking for months about what you ought to do, since that night when you first sang for me.
He walked over to the window, turned, and came toward her again. "I believe that your voice is worth all that you can put into it.
I have not come to this decision rashly.
I have studied you, and I have become more and more convinced, against my own desires.
I cannot make a singer of you, so it was my business to find a man who could.
I have even consulted Theodore Thomas about it." "But suppose I don't want to be a singer?
I want to study with you. What's the matter?
Do you really think I've no talent?
Can't I be a pianist?" Harsanyi paced up and down the long rug in front of her.
My girl, you are very talented.
You could be a pianist, a good one.
But the early training of a pianist, such a pianist as you would want to be, must be something tremendous.
He must have had no other life than music.
At your age he must be the master of his instrument.
Nothing can ever take the place of that first training.
You know very well that your technique is good, but it is not remarkable.
It will never overtake your intelligence.
You have a fine power of work, but you are not by nature a student.
You are not by nature, I think, a pianist.
You would never find yourself.
In the effort to do so, I'm afraid your playing would become warped, eccentric.
He threw back his head and looked at his pupil intently with that one eye which sometimes seemed to see deeper than any two eyes, as if its singleness gave it privileges.
Oh, I have watched you very carefully, Miss Kronborg.
Because you had had so little and had yet done so much for yourself, I had a great wish to help you.
I believe that the strongest need of your nature is to find yourself, to emerge AS yourself.
Until I heard you sing I wondered how you were to do this, but it has grown clearer to me every day." Thea looked away toward the window with hard, narrow eyes.
You mean I can be a singer because I haven't brains enough to be a pianist." "You have brains enough and talent enough.
But to do what you will want to do, it takes more than these-it takes vocation.
Now, I think you have vocation, but for the voice, not for the piano.
If you knew,"-he stopped and sighed,-"if you knew how fortunate I sometimes think you. With the voice the way is so much shorter, the rewards are more easily won.
In your voice I think Nature herself did for you what it would take you many years to do at the piano.
Perhaps you were not born in the wrong place after all.
Let us talk frankly now.
We have never done so before, and I have respected your reticence.
What you want more than anything else in the world is to be an artist; is that true?" She turned her face away from him and looked down at the keyboard.
Her answer came in a thickened voice.
Yes, I suppose so." "When did you first feel that you wanted to be an artist?" "I don't know.
There was always-something." "Did you never think that you were going to sing?" "Yes." "How long ago was that?" "Always, until I came to you.
It was you who made me want to play piano.
Before, I tried to think I did, but I was pretending." Harsanyi reached out and caught the hand that was hanging at her side. He pressed it as if to give her something.
Can't you see, my dear girl, that was only because I happened to be the first artist you have ever known?
If I had been a trombone player, it would have been the same; you would have wanted to play trombone.
But all the while you have been working with such good-will, something has been struggling against me.
See, here we were, you and I and this instrument,"-he tapped the piano,-"three good friends, working so hard.
But all the while there was something fighting us: your gift, and the woman you were meant to be.
When you find your way to that gift and to that woman, you will be at peace.
In the beginning it was an artist that you wanted to be; well, you may be an artist, always." Thea drew a long breath.
Her hands fell in her lap.
So I'm just where I began.
No money." Harsanyi turned away.
Feel no apprehension about the money, Miss Kronborg.
Come back in the fall and we shall manage that.
I shall even go to Mr. Thomas if necessary.
This year will not be lost.
If you but knew what an advantage this winter's study, all your study of the piano, will give you over most singers.
Perhaps things have come out better for you than if we had planned them knowingly." "You mean they have _if_ I can sing." Thea spoke with a heavy irony, so heavy, indeed, that it was coarse.
It grated upon Harsanyi because he felt that it was not sincere, an awkward affectation. He wheeled toward her.
Miss Kronborg, answer me this. _You know that you can sing_, do you not?
You have always known it.
While we worked here together you sometimes said to yourself, 'I have something you know nothing about; I could surprise you.
Is that also true?" Thea nodded and hung her head. "Why were you not frank with me?
Did I not deserve it?" She shuddered.
I don't know," she muttered.
I didn't mean to be like that.
It's different." "You mean it is very personal?" he asked kindly. She nodded.
Not at church or funerals, or with people like Mr. Larsen. But with you it was-personal.
I'm not like you and Mrs. Harsanyi.
I come of rough people.
There is no use my talking, Mr. Harsanyi.
I can't tell you." "You needn't tell me.
Harsanyi stood looking at his pupil's back, bent as if she were pushing something, at her lowered head.
You can sing for those people because with them you do not commit yourself.
But the reality, one cannot uncover _that_ until one is sure.
One can fail one's self, but one must not live to see that fail; better never reveal it.
Let me help you to make yourself sure of it.
That I can do better than Bowers." Thea lifted her face and threw out her hands. Harsanyi shook his head and smiled.
You will have much to do.
There will not be voice only, but French, German, Italian. You will have work enough.
But sometimes you will need to be understood; what you never show to any one will need companionship.
And then you must come to me.
He peered into her face with that searching, intimate glance.
You know what I mean, the thing in you that has no business with what is little, that will have to do only with beauty and power." Thea threw out her hands fiercely, as if to push him away.
She made a sound in her throat, but it was not articulate.
Harsanyi took one of her hands and kissed it lightly upon the back.
His salute was one of greeting, not of farewell, and it was for some one he had never seen. When Mrs. Harsanyi came in at six o'clock, she found her husband sitting listlessly by the window.
Tired?" she asked. "A little.
I've just got through a difficulty.
I've sent Miss Kronborg away; turned her over to Bowers, for voice." "Sent Miss Kronborg away?
Andor, what is the matter with you?" "It's nothing rash.
I've known for a long while I ought to do it.
She is made for a singer, not a pianist." Mrs. Harsanyi sat down on the piano chair.
She spoke a little bitterly: "How can you be sure of that?
She was, at least, the best you had.
I thought you meant to have her play at your students' recital next fall. I am sure she would have made an impression.
I could have dressed her so that she would have been very striking.
She had so much individuality." Harsanyi bent forward, looking at the floor.
I shall miss her, of course." Mrs. Harsanyi looked at her husband's fine head against the gray window.
She had never felt deeper tenderness for him than she did at that moment.
Her heart ached for him.
You will never get on, Andor," she said mournfully. Harsanyi sat motionless.
No, I shall never get on," he repeated quietly.
Suddenly he sprang up with that light movement she knew so well, and stood in the window, with folded arms.
But some day I shall be able to look her in the face and laugh because I did what I could for her.
She will do nothing common.
She is uncommon, in a common, common world.
That is what I get out of it.
It means more to me than if she played at my concert and brought me a dozen pupils. All this drudgery will kill me if once in a while I cannot hope something, for somebody!
If I cannot sometimes see a bird fly and wave my hand to it." His tone was angry and injured.
Mrs. Harsanyi understood that this was one of the times when his wife was a part of the drudgery, of the "common, common world." He had let something he cared for go, and he felt bitterly about whatever was left.
The mood would pass, and he would be sorry.
It wounded her, of course, but that hurt was not new.
It was as old as her love for him.
She went out and left him alone. VIII One warm damp June night the Denver Express was speeding westward across the earthy-smelling plains of Iowa.
The lights in the day-coach were turned low and the ventilators were open, admitting showers of soot and dust upon the occupants of the narrow green plush chairs which were tilted at various angles of discomfort.
In each of these chairs some uncomfortable human being lay drawn up, or stretched out, or writhing from one position to another.
The brakeman, when he came through at midnight, sniffed the heavy air disdainfully and looked up at the ventilators.
As he glanced down the double rows of contorted figures, he saw one pair of eyes that were wide open and bright, a yellow head that was not overcome by the stupefying heat and smell in the car.
There's a girl for you," he thought as he stopped by Thea's chair. "Like to have the window up a little?" he asked. Thea smiled up at him, not misunderstanding his friendliness.
The girl behind me is sick; she can't stand a draft.
What time is it, please?" He took out his open-faced watch and held it before her eyes with a knowing look.
In a hurry?" he asked.
I'll leave the end door open and air you out.
Catch a wink; the time'll go faster." Thea nodded good-night to him and settled her head back on her pillow, looking up at the oil lamps.
She was going back to Moonstone for her summer vacation, and she was sitting up all night in a day-coach because that seemed such an easy way to save money.
She was pretty in spite of being so sooty and travel-stained.
She had put on an ugly figured satine kimono over her loosened clothes.
Thea, when she boarded the train in Chicago, happened to stop and plant her heavy telescope on this seat.
The mother turned on her side and went to sleep; she was used to the cough.
But the girl lay wide awake, her eyes fixed on the roof of the car, as Thea's were.
The two girls must have seen very different things there. Thea fell to going over her winter in Chicago.
It was only under unusual or uncomfortable conditions like these that she could keep her mind fixed upon herself or her own affairs for any length of time.
The rapid motion and the vibration of the wheels under her seemed to give her thoughts rapidity and clearness.
She had taken twenty very expensive lessons from Madison Bowers, but she did not yet know what he thought of her or of her ability.
He was different from any man with whom she had ever had to do.
With her other teachers she had felt a personal relation; but with him she did not.
Bowers was a cold, bitter, avaricious man, but he knew a great deal about voices.
He worked with a voice as if he were in a laboratory, conducting a series of experiments.
She had always told herself that she studied piano to fit herself to be a music teacher.
But she never asked herself why she was studying voice.
Hitherto she had felt but one obligation toward it-secrecy; to protect it even from herself.
It was as if she had an appointment to meet the rest of herself sometime, somewhere.
It was moving to meet her and she was moving to meet it.
That meeting awaited her, just as surely as, for the poor girl in the seat behind her, there awaited a hole in the earth, already dug. For Thea, so much had begun with a hole in the earth.
Yes, she reflected, this new part of her life had all begun that morning when she sat on the clay bank beside Ray Kennedy, under the flickering shade of the cottonwood tree.
She remembered the way Ray had looked at her that morning.
Why had he cared so much?
And Wunsch, and Dr. Archie, and Spanish Johnny, why had they?
It was something that had to do with her that made them care, but it was not she.
It was something they believed in, but it was not she.
Perhaps each of them concealed another person in himself, just as she did.
Why was it that they seemed to feel and to hunt for a second person in her and not in each other?
Thea frowned up at the dull lamp in the roof of the car.
What if one's second self could somehow speak to all these second selves?
What if one could bring them out, as whiskey did Spanish Johnny's?
How deep they lay, these second persons, and how little one knew about them, except to guard them fiercely.
It was to music, more than to anything else, that these hidden things in people responded.
Her mother-even her mother had something of that sort which replied to music. Thea found herself listening for the coughing behind her and not hearing it.
She turned cautiously and looked back over the head-rest of her chair.
The poor girl had fallen asleep.
Thea looked at her intently.
Why was she so afraid of men?
Why did she shrink into herself and avert her face whenever a man passed her chair?
Thea thought she knew; of course, she knew.
How horrible to waste away like that, in the time when one ought to be growing fuller and stronger and rounder every day.
Suppose there were such a dark hole open for her, between to-night and that place where she was to meet herself?
She put her hand on her breast and felt how warm it was; and within it there was a full, powerful pulsation.
She smiled-though she was ashamed of it-with the natural contempt of strength for weakness, with the sense of physical security which makes the savage merciless.
Nobody could die while they felt like that inside.
The springs there were wound so tight that it would be a long while before there was any slack in them.
The life in there was rooted deep.
She was going to have a few things before she died.
She realized that there were a great many trains dashing east and west on the face of the continent that night, and that they all carried young people who meant to have things.
But the difference was that _she was going to get them!_ That was all.
Let people try to stop her!
She glowered at the rows of feckless bodies that lay sprawled in the chairs.
Let them try it once!
Along with the yearning that came from some deep part of her, that was selfless and exalted, Thea had a hard kind of cockiness, a determination to get ahead.
At that early hour there were few people in the dining-car.
The linen was white and fresh, the darkies were trim and smiling, and the sunlight gleamed pleasantly upon the silver and the glass water-bottles.
On each table there was a slender vase with a single pink rose in it.
When Thea sat down she looked into her rose and thought it the most beautiful thing in the world; it was wide open, recklessly offering its yellow heart, and there were drops of water on the petals.
All the future was in that rose, all that one would like to be.
The flower put her in an absolutely regal mood.
She had a whole pot of coffee, and scrambled eggs with chopped ham, utterly disregarding the astonishing price they cost.
She had faith enough in what she could do, she told herself, to have eggs if she wanted them.
At the table opposite her sat a man and his wife and little boy-Thea classified them as being "from the East.
They spoke in that quick, sure staccato, which Thea, like Ray Kennedy, pretended to scorn and secretly admired. People who could use words in that confident way, and who spoke them elegantly, had a great advantage in life, she reflected.
There were so many words which she could not pronounce in speech as she had to do in singing.
Language was like clothes; it could be a help to one, or it could give one away.
But the most important thing was that one should not pretend to be what one was not. When she paid her check she consulted the waiter.
Waiter, do you suppose I could buy one of those roses?
I'm out of the day-coach, and there is a sick girl in there.
I'd like to take her a cup of coffee and one of those flowers." The waiter liked nothing better than advising travelers less sophisticated than himself.
He told Thea there were a few roses left in the icebox and he would get one.
He took the flower and the coffee into the day-coach.
Thea pointed out the girl, but she did not accompany him.
She hated thanks and never received them gracefully.
She stood outside on the platform to get some fresh air into her lungs.
She had often heard Mrs. Kronborg say that she "believed in immigration," and so did Thea believe in it.
Wire fences might mark the end of a man's pasture, but they could not shut in his thoughts as mountains and forests can.
It was over flat lands like this, stretching out to drink the sun, that the larks sang-and one's heart sang there, too.
Thea was glad that this was her country, even if one did not learn to speak elegantly there.
It was, somehow, an honest country, and there was a new song in that blue air which had never been sung in the world before.
It was hard to tell about it, for it had nothing to do with words; it was like the light of the desert at noon, or the smell of the sagebrush after rain; intangible but powerful.
Gus and Charley were young men now, and they had declared at noon that it would "look silly if the whole bunch went down to the train.
There's no use making a fuss over Thea just because she's been to Chicago," Charley warned his mother.
She's inclined to think pretty well of herself, anyhow, and if you go treating her like company, there'll be no living in the house with her.
Mrs. Kronborg simply leveled her eyes at Charley, and he faded away, muttering.
She had, as Mr. Kronborg always said with an inclination of his head, good control over her children. Anna, too, wished to absent herself from the party, but in the end her curiosity got the better of her.
So when Thea stepped down from the porter's stool, a very creditable Kronborg representation was grouped on the platform to greet her.
I'm not going to sing at all this summer, except my exercises.
Bowers says I taxed my voice last winter, singing at funerals so much.
If I begin the first day after I get home, there'll be no end to it.
You can tell them I caught cold on the train, or something." Thea saw Anna glance at their mother.
Thea remembered having seen that look on Anna's face often before, but she had never thought anything about it because she was used to it.
Now she realized that the look was distinctly spiteful, even vindictive.
She wondered whether she would ever like a plastered room as well as this one lined with scantlings.
It was snug and tight, like the cabin of a little boat.
Her bed faced the window and stood against the wall, under the slant of the ceiling.
When she went away she could just touch the ceiling with the tips of her fingers; now she could touch it with the palm of her hand.
It was so little that it was like a sunny cave, with roses running all over the roof.
Through the low window, as she lay there, she could watch people going by on the farther side of the street; men, going downtown to open their stores.
Thor was over there, rattling his express wagon along the sidewalk.
Tillie had put a bunch of French pinks in a tumbler of water on her dresser, and they gave out a pleasant perfume.
She had been dreaming something pleasant, but she could not remember what.
On the way home she would stop to see Mrs. Tellamantez.
On Sunday she would coax Gunner to take her out to the sand hills.
She had missed them in Chicago; had been homesick for their brilliant morning gold and for their soft colors at evening.
The Lake, somehow, had never taken their place. While she lay planning, relaxed in warm drowsiness, she heard a knock at her door.
She supposed it was Tillie, who sometimes fluttered in on her before she was out of bed to offer some service which the family would have ridiculed.
But instead, Mrs. Kronborg herself came in, carrying a tray with Thea's breakfast set out on one of the best white napkins.
Thea sat up with some embarrassment and pulled her nightgown together across her chest.
Mrs. Kronborg was always busy downstairs in the morning, and Thea could not remember when her mother had come to her room before. "I thought you'd be tired, after traveling, and might like to take it easy for once.
Mrs. Kronborg put the tray on the edge of the bed.
I took some thick cream for you before the boys got at it.
She chuckled and sat down in the big wooden rocking chair.
Her visit made Thea feel grown-up, and, somehow, important. Mrs. Kronborg asked her about Bowers and the Harsanyis.
She felt a great change in Thea, in her face and in her manner.
Mr. Kronborg had noticed it, too, and had spoken of it to his wife with great satisfaction while they were undressing last night.
Mrs. Kronborg sat looking at her daughter, who lay on her side, supporting herself on her elbow and lazily drinking her coffee from the tray before her.
Her short-sleeved nightgown had come open at the throat again, and Mrs. Kronborg noticed how white her arms and shoulders were, as if they had been dipped in new milk.
Her chest was fuller than when she went away, her breasts rounder and firmer, and though she was so white where she was uncovered, they looked rosy through the thin muslin.
Her body had the elasticity that comes of being highly charged with the desire to live.
She would make a very handsome woman, Mrs. Kronborg said to herself, if she would only get rid of that fierce look she had sometimes.
Mrs. Kronborg took great pleasure in good looks, wherever she found them.
She still remembered that, as a baby, Thea had been the "best-formed" of any of her children. "I'll have to get you a longer bed," she remarked, as she put the tray on the table.
You're getting too long for that one." Thea looked up at her mother and laughed, dropping back on her pillow with a magnificent stretch of her whole body.
Mrs. Kronborg sat down again. "I don't like to press you, Thea, but I think you'd better sing at that funeral to-morrow.
I'm afraid you'll always be sorry if you don't. Sometimes a little thing like that, that seems nothing at the time, comes back on one afterward and troubles one a good deal.
I don't mean the church shall run you to death this summer, like they used to.
I've spoken my mind to your father about that, and he's very reasonable.
But Maggie talked a good deal about you to people this winter; always asked what word we'd had, and said how she missed your singing and all.
I guess you ought to do that much for her." "All right, mother, if you think so.
Thea lay looking at her mother with intensely bright eyes. "That's right, daughter.
Mrs. Kronborg rose and went over to get the tray, stopping to put her hand on Thea's chest.
You're filling out nice," she said, feeling about.
No, I wouldn't bother about the buttons.
This is a good time to harden your chest." Thea lay still and heard her mother's firm step receding along the bare floor of the trunk loft.
There was no sham about her mother, she reflected.
Her mother knew a great many things of which she never talked, and all the church people were forever chattering about things of which they knew nothing.
She liked her mother. Now for Mexican Town and the Kohlers!
Thea had gone into the drug store to have a friendly chat with the proprietor, who used to lend her books from his shelves.
She found Johnny there, trimming rolls of wall-paper for the parlor of Banker Smith's new house.
I'm going to study it.
I know enough Spanish for that." Johnny looked up from his roller with his bright, affable smile. "_Si_, but it is low for you, I think; _voz contralto_.
It is low for me." "Nonsense.
I can do more with my low voice than I used to.
Sit down and write it out for me, please.
Thea beckoned him with the short yellow pencil tied to his order-book. Johnny ran his fingers through his curly black hair.
I do not know if that _serenata_ all right for young ladies.
Down there it is more for married ladies.
They sing it for husbands-or somebody else, may-bee.
Johnny's eyes twinkled and he apologized gracefully with his shoulders.
He sat down at the table, and while Thea looked over his arm, began to write the song down in a long, slanting script, with highly ornamental capitals.
This-a song not exactly Mexican," he said thoughtfully.
It come from farther down; Brazil, Venezuela, may-bee.
I learn it from some fellow down there, and he learn it from another fellow.
It is-a most like Mexican, but not quite.
Thea did not release him, but pointed to the paper.
There were three verses of the song in all, and when Johnny had written them down, he sat looking at them meditatively, his head on one side.
How you accompany with piano?" "Oh, that will be easy enough." "For you, may-bee!
Johnny smiled and drummed on the table with the tips of his agile brown fingers.
He rose and sat down on the table beside her, putting his foot on the chair.
He loved to talk at the hour of noon.
When you was a little girl, no bigger than that, you come to my house one day 'bout noon, like this, and I was in the door, playing guitar.
You was barehead, barefoot; you run away from home.
You stand there and make a frown at me an' listen.
By 'n by you say for me to sing.
I sing some lil' ting, and then I say for you to sing with me.
You don' know no words, of course, but you take the air and you sing it justa beauti-ful!
I never see a child do that, outside Mexico.
You was, oh, I do' know-seven year, may-bee.
By 'n by the preacher come look for you and begin for scold.
I say, 'Don' scold, Meester Kronborg.
She come for hear guitar. She gotta some music in her, that child.
Then he tell me 'bout your gran'papa play oboe in the old country.
I never forgetta that time.
Johnny chuckled softly. Thea nodded.
I remember that day, too.
I liked your music better than the church music.
When are you going to have a dance over there, Johnny?" Johnny tilted his head.
Well, Saturday night the Spanish boys have a lil' party, some _danza_.
He have some young cousins, two boys, very nice-a, come from Torreon.
They going to Salt Lake for some job-a, and stay off with him two-three days, and he mus' have a party.
You like to come?" That was how Thea came to go to the Mexican ball.
The "Spanish boys" are reticent about their own affairs.
She noticed that Thea had put on a white dress and had done her hair up with unusual care, and that she carried her best blue scarf.
Maybe you'll take a turn yourself, eh?
I wouldn't mind watching them Mexicans.
They're lovely dancers." Thea made a feeble suggestion that her mother might go with her, but Mrs. Kronborg was too wise for that.
She knew that Thea would have a better time if she went alone, and she watched her daughter go out of the gate and down the sidewalk that led to the depot. Thea walked slowly.
It was a soft, rosy evening.
The sand hills were lavender.
The sun had gone down a glowing copper disk, and the fleecy clouds in the east were a burning rose-color, flecked with gold.
Thea passed the cottonwood grove and then the depot, where she left the sidewalk and took the sandy path toward Mexican Town.
She could hear the scraping of violins being tuned, the tinkle of mandolins, and the growl of a double bass.
Where had they got a double bass?
She did not know there was one in Moonstone.
Even the babies had gone to the ball; a neighbor was always willing to hold the baby while the mother danced.
Mrs. Tellamantez came out to meet Thea and led her in. Johnny bowed to her from the platform at the end of the room, where he was playing the mandolin along with two fiddles and the bass.
The hall was a long low room, with whitewashed walls, a fairly tight plank floor, wooden benches along the sides, and a few bracket lamps screwed to the frame timbers.
There must have been fifty people there, counting the children.
The Mexican dances were very much family affairs.
The fathers always danced again and again with their little daughters, as well as with their wives.
One of the girls came up to greet Thea, her dark cheeks glowing with pleasure and cordiality, and introduced her brother, with whom she had just been dancing.
You better take him every time he asks you," she whispered.
He's the best dancer here, except Johnny." Thea soon decided that the poorest dancer was herself.
Even Mrs. Tellamantez, who always held her shoulders so stiffly, danced better than she did.
The musicians did not remain long at their post.
When one of them felt like dancing, he called some other boy to take his instrument, put on his coat, and went down on the floor.
The boys played rough jokes and thought it smart to be clumsy and to run into each other on the floor.
For the square dances there was always the bawling voice of the caller, who was also the county auctioneer. This Mexican dance was soft and quiet.
There was no calling, the conversation was very low, the rhythm of the music was smooth and engaging, the men were graceful and courteous.
Some of them Thea had never before seen out of their working clothes, smeared with grease from the round-house or clay from the brickyard.
Sometimes, when the music happened to be a popular Mexican waltz song, the dancers sang it softly as they moved.
There were three little girls under twelve, in their first communion dresses, and one of them had an orange marigold in her black hair, just over her ear.
They danced with the men and with each other.
There was an atmosphere of ease and friendly pleasure in the low, dimly lit room, and Thea could not help wondering whether the Mexicans had no jealousies or neighborly grudges as the people in Moonstone had.
There was no constraint of any kind there to-night, but a kind of natural harmony about their movements, their greetings, their low conversation, their smiles. Ramas brought up his two young cousins, Silvo and Felipe, and presented them.
They were handsome, smiling youths, of eighteen and twenty, with pale-gold skins, smooth cheeks, aquiline features, and wavy black hair, like Johnny's.
They were dressed alike, in black velvet jackets and soft silk shirts, with opal shirt-buttons and flowing black ties looped through gold rings.
They had charming manners, and low, guitar-like voices.
They knew almost no English, but a Mexican boy can pay a great many compliments with a very limited vocabulary.
The Ramas boys thought Thea dazzlingly beautiful.
They had never seen a Scandinavian girl before, and her hair and fair skin bewitched them. "_Blanco y oro, semjante la Pascua!_" (White and gold, like Easter!) they exclaimed to each other.
Silvo, the younger, declared that he could never go on to Utah; that he and his double bass had reached their ultimate destination.
The elder was more crafty; he asked Miguel Ramas whether there would be "plenty more girls like that _a_ Salt Lake, maybee?" Silvo, overhearing, gave his brother a contemptuous glance.
When they were not dancing with her, their eyes followed her, over the coiffures of their other partners.
That was not difficult; one blonde head moving among so many dark ones. Thea had not meant to dance much, but the Ramas boys danced so well and were so handsome and adoring that she yielded to their entreaties.
When she sat out a dance with them, they talked to her about their family at home, and told her how their mother had once punned upon their name. _Rama_, in Spanish, meant a branch, they explained.
Once when they were little lads their mother took them along when she went to help the women decorate the church for Easter.
Some one asked her whether she had brought any flowers, and she replied that she had brought her "ramas.
This was evidently a cherished family story. When it was nearly midnight, Johnny announced that every one was going to his house to have "some lil' icecream and some lil' _musica_.
He began to put out the lights and Mrs. Tellamantez led the way across the square to her _casa_.
Thea sat on Felipe's coat, since Silvo's was already about her shoulders.
The youths lay down on the shining gravel beside her, one on her right and one on her left.
Johnny already called them "_los acolitos_," the altar-boys.
The talk all about them was low, and indolent.
One of the girls was playing on Johnny's guitar, another was picking lightly at a mandolin.
The moonlight was so bright that one could see every glance and smile, and the flash of their teeth.
The moonflowers over Mrs. Tellamantez's door were wide open and of an unearthly white.
Now we have some lil' _serenata_, eh? You wan' a try?" When Thea began to sing, instant silence fell upon the company.
She felt all those dark eyes fix themselves upon her intently.
She could see them shine.
The faces came out of the shadow like the white flowers over the door.
Felipe leaned his head upon his hand.
Silvo dropped on his back and lay looking at the moon, under the impression that he was still looking at Thea.
They turned themselves and all they had over to her.
For the moment they cared about nothing in the world but what she was doing.
Their faces confronted her, open, eager, unprotected.
She felt as if all these warm-blooded people debouched into her.
The men began hunting feverishly for cigarettes.
Famos Serranos the barytone bricklayer, touched Johnny's arm, gave him a questioning look, then heaved a deep sigh.
In the City of Mexico they ain't-a sit like stumps when they hear that, not-a much!
When they like, they just-a give you the town." Thea laughed.
He began teasing his strings.
His voice was thin, unsteady, husky in the middle tones.
But it was distinctly a voice, and sometimes he managed to get something very sweet out of it. Certainly it made him happy to sing.
Thea kept glancing down at him as he lay there on his elbow.
His eyes seemed twice as large as usual and had lights in them like those the moonlight makes on black, running water.
Thea remembered the old stories about his "spells.
We have no alto, but all the girls can sing alto and make some noise." The women laughed.
Mexican women of the poorer class do not sing like the men.
Perhaps they are too indolent.
Aren't you going to sing, Silvo?" she asked teasingly. The boy turned on his side and raised himself on his elbow for a moment.
He dropped back again, and lay with his cheek on his right arm, the hand lying passive on the sand above his head. "How does he flatten himself into the ground like that?
It's very effective, somehow." Across the gulch the Kohlers' little house slept among its trees, a dark spot on the white face of the desert.
The windows of their upstairs bedroom were open, and Paulina had listened to the dance music for a long while before she drowsed off.
She was a light sleeper, and when she woke again, after midnight, Johnny's concert was at its height.
She lay still until she could bear it no longer.
Then she wakened Fritz and they went over to the window and leaned out.
He grunted and scratched on the floor with his bare foot.
They were listening to a Mexican part-song; the tenor, then the soprano, then both together; the barytone joins them, rages, is extinguished; the tenor expires in sobs, and the soprano finishes alone.
Then the guitar sounded fiercely, and several male voices began the sextette from "Lucia.
Johnny's reedy tenor they knew well, and the bricklayer's big, opaque barytone; the others might be anybody over there-just Mexican voices.
Then at the appointed, at the acute, moment, the soprano voice, like a fountain jet, shot up into the light. "_Horch!
Horch!_" the old people whispered, both at once.
How it leaped from among those dusky male voices!
How it played in and about and around and over them, like a goldfish darting among creek minnows, like a yellow butterfly soaring above a swarm of dark ones.
Ah," said Mrs. Kohler softly, "the dear man; if he could hear her now!" XI Mrs. Kronborg had said that Thea was not to be disturbed on Sunday morning, and she slept until noon.
When she came downstairs the family were just sitting down to dinner, Mr. Kronborg at one end of the long table, Mrs. Kronborg at the other.
Anna, stiff and ceremonious, in her summer silk, sat at her father's right, and the boys were strung along on either side of the table.
There was a place left for Thea between her mother and Thor.
During the silence which preceded the blessing, Thea felt something uncomfortable in the air.
I hope you got your sleep out." "High society, that," remarked Charley, giving the mashed potatoes a vicious swat.
Anna's mouth and eyebrows became half-moons. Thea looked across the table at the uncompromising countenances of her older brothers.
Why, what's the matter with the Mexicans?" she asked, flushing.
They don't trouble anybody, and they are kind to their families and have good manners." "Nice clean people; got some style about them.
Do you really like that kind, Thea, or do you just pretend to?
That's what I'd like to know." Gus looked at her with pained inquiry.
But he at least looked at her. "They're just as clean as white people, and they have a perfect right to their own ways.
Of course I like 'em.
I don't pretend things." "Everybody according to their own taste," remarked Charley bitterly. "Quit crumbing your bread up, Thor.
Ain't you learned how to eat yet?" "Children, children!" said Mr. Kronborg nervously, looking up from the chicken he was dismembering.
He glanced at his wife, whom he expected to maintain harmony in the family. "That's all right, Charley.
Drop it there," said Mrs. Kronborg.
No use spoiling your Sunday dinner with race prejudices.
The Mexicans suit me and Thea very well.
They are a useful people.
Now you can just talk about something else." Conversation, however, did not flourish at that dinner.
Everybody ate as fast as possible.
Charley and Gus said they had engagements and left the table as soon as they finished their apple pie.
Anna sat primly and ate with great elegance.
When she spoke at all she spoke to her father, about church matters, and always in a commiserating tone, as if he had met with some misfortune.
Mr. Kronborg, quite innocent of her intentions, replied kindly and absent-mindedly.
After the dessert he went to take his usual Sunday afternoon nap, and Mrs. Kronborg carried some dinner to a sick neighbor.
Thea and Anna began to clear the table. "I should think you would show more consideration for father's position, Thea," Anna began as soon as she and her sister were alone. Thea gave her a sidelong glance.
Why, what have I done to father?" "Everybody at Sunday-School was talking about you going over there and singing with the Mexicans all night, when you won't sing for the church.
Somebody heard you, and told it all over town.
Of course, we all get the blame for it." "Anything disgraceful about singing?
Thea asked with a provoking yawn. "I must say you choose your company!
You always had that streak in you, Thea.
We all hoped that going away would improve you.
Of course, it reflects on father when you are scarcely polite to the nice people here and make up to the rowdies." "Oh, it's my singing with the Mexicans you object to?
Thea put down a tray full of dishes.
Well, I like to sing over there, and I don't like to over here.
I'll sing for them any time they ask me to.
They know something about what I'm doing.
They're a talented people." "Talented!
Anna made the word sound like escaping steam.
I suppose you think it's smart to come home and throw that at your family!" Thea picked up the tray.
By this time she was as white as the Sunday tablecloth.
Well," she replied in a cold, even tone, "I'll have to throw it at them sooner or later.
It's just a question of when, and it might as well be now as any time.
This place had always been her refuge, but there was a hostility in the house now which this door could not shut out.
This would be her last summer in that room.
Its services were over; its time was done. She rose and put her hand on the low ceiling.
Two tears ran down her cheeks, as if they came from ice that melted slowly.
She was not ready to leave her little shell.
She was being pulled out too soon.
She would never be able to think anywhere else as well as here.
She would never sleep so well or have such dreams in any other bed; even last night, such sweet, breathless dreams-Thea hid her face in the pillow.
Wherever she went she would like to take that little bed with her.
When she went away from it for good, she would leave something that she could never recover; memories of pleasant excitement, of happy adventures in her mind; of warm sleep on howling winter nights, and joyous awakenings on summer mornings.
The sun was beating fiercely on the shingles behind the board ceiling.
She undressed, and before she threw herself upon her bed in her chemise, she frowned at herself for a long while in her looking-glass.
Yes, she and It must fight it out together. The thing that looked at her out of her own eyes was the only friend she could count on.
Oh, she would make these people sorry enough!
There would come a time when they would want to make it up with her.
She had no little vanities, only one big one, and she would never forgive. Her mother was all right, but her mother was a part of the family, and she was not.
In the nature of things, her mother had to be on both sides.
Thea felt that she had been betrayed.
A truce had been broken behind her back.
She had never had much individual affection for any of her brothers except Thor, but she had never been disloyal, never felt scorn or held grudges.
As a little girl she had always been good friends with Gunner and Axel, whenever she had time to play.
Even before she got her own room, when they were all sleeping and dressing together, like little cubs, and breakfasting in the kitchen, she had led an absorbing personal life of her own.
But she had a cub loyalty to the other cubs.
She thought them nice boys and tried to make them get their lessons.
She had done them the honor, she told herself bitterly, to believe that though they had no particular endowments, _they were of her kind_, and not of the Moonstone kind.
Now they had all grown up and become persons.
They faced each other as individuals, and she saw that Anna and Gus and Charley were among the people whom she had always recognized as her natural enemies.
Their ambitions and sacred proprieties were meaningless to her.
She had neglected to congratulate Charley upon having been promoted from the grocery department of Commings's store to the drygoods department.
Her mother had reproved her for this omission.
And how was she to know, Thea asked herself, that Anna expected to be teased because Bert Rice now came and sat in the hammock with her every night?
No, it was all clear enough.
Nothing that she would ever do in the world would seem important to them, and nothing they would ever do would seem important to her. Thea lay thinking intently all through the stifling afternoon.
Tillie whispered something outside her door once, but she did not answer.
She lay on her bed until the second church bell rang, and she saw the family go trooping up the sidewalk on the opposite side of the street, Anna and her father in the lead.
Anna seemed to have taken on a very story-book attitude toward her father; patronizing and condescending, it seemed to Thea.
The older boys were not in the family band.
They now took their girls to church.
After she was dressed she unlocked her door and went cautiously downstairs.
She felt as if chilling hostilities might be awaiting her in the trunk loft, on the stairway, almost anywhere.
It's too bad you didn't go to the theater more when you was in Chicago; such a good chance!
Didn't you even get to see Clara Morris or Modjeska?" "No; I didn't have time.
Besides, it costs money, Tillie," Thea replied wearily, glancing at the paper Tillie held out to her. Tillie looked up at her niece.
Don't you go and be upset about any of Anna's notions.
She's one of these narrow kind.
Your father and mother don't pay any attention to what she says.
Anna's fussy; she is with me, but I don't mind her." "Oh, I don't mind her.
I guess I'll take a walk." Thea knew that Tillie hoped she would stay and talk to her for a while, and she would have liked to please her.
But in a house as small as that one, everything was too intimate and mixed up together.
The family was the family, an integral thing.
One couldn't discuss Anna there.
Mexican Town, somehow, was spoiled for her just then, and she felt that she would hide if she saw Silvo or Felipe coming toward her. She walked down through the empty main street.
All the stores were closed, their blinds down.
On the steps of the bank some idle boys were sitting, telling disgusting stories because there was nothing else to do.
Several of them had gone to school with Thea, but when she nodded to them they hung their heads and did not speak.
Thea's body was often curiously expressive of what was going on in her mind, and to-night there was something in her walk and carriage that made these boys feel that she was "stuck up.
If she had stopped and talked to them, they would have thawed out on the instant and would have been friendly and grateful.
But Thea was hurt afresh, and walked on, holding her chin higher than ever.
As she passed the Duke Block, she saw a light in Dr. Archie's office, and she went up the stairs and opened the door into his study.
She found him with a pile of papers and accountbooks before him.
He pointed her to her old chair at the end of his desk and leaned back in his own, looking at her with satisfaction.
How handsome she was growing! "I'm still chasing the elusive metal, Thea,"-he pointed to the papers before him,-"I'm up to my neck in mines, and I'm going to be a rich man some day." "I hope you will; awfully rich.
That's the only thing that counts.
She looked restlessly about the consulting-room.
To do any of the things one wants to do, one has to have lots and lots of money." Dr. Archie was direct.
Do you need some?" Thea shrugged.
Oh, I can get along, in a little way.
She looked intently out of the window at the arc streetlamp that was just beginning to sputter.
But it's silly to live at all for little things," she added quietly.
Living's too much trouble unless one can get something big out of it." Dr. Archie rested his elbows on the arms of his chair, dropped his chin on his clasped hands and looked at her.
Living is no trouble for little people, believe me!" he exclaimed.
What do you want to get out of it?" "Oh-so many things!
Well, you can make money, if you care about that more than anything else.
He nodded prophetically above his interlacing fingers. "But I don't.
Anyhow, I couldn't if I did.
She pulled her dress lower at the neck as if she were suffocating.
I only want impossible things," she said roughly.
The others don't interest me." Dr. Archie watched her contemplatively, as if she were a beaker full of chemicals working.
A few years ago, when she used to sit there, the light from under his green lampshade used to fall full upon her broad face and yellow pigtails.
Now her face was in the shadow and the line of light fell below her bare throat, directly across her bosom.
The shrunken white organdie rose and fell as if she were struggling to be free and to break out of it altogether.
He felt that her heart must be laboring heavily in there, but he was afraid to touch her; he was, indeed.
He had never seen her like this before.
But if you decide what it is you want most, _you can get it_.
His eye caught hers for a moment. "Not everybody can, but you can.
Only, if you want a big thing, you've got to have nerve enough to cut out all that's easy, everything that's to be had cheap.
Do you mean to break loose, too, and-do something?" she asked in a low voice. "I mean to get rich, if you call that doing anything.
I've found what I can do without.
You make such bargains in your mind, first." Thea sprang up and took the paper-cutter he had put down, twisting it in her hands.
A long while first, sometimes," she said with a short laugh.
But suppose one can never get out what they've got in them? Suppose they make a mess of it in the end; then what?
She threw the paper-cutter on the desk and took a step toward the doctor, until her dress touched him.
She stood looking down at him.
Oh, it's easy to fail!
She was breathing through her mouth and her throat was throbbing with excitement. As he looked up at her, Dr. Archie's hands tightened on the arms of his chair.
He had thought he knew Thea Kronborg pretty well, but he did not know the girl who was standing there.
She was beautiful, as his little Swede had never been, but she frightened him.
Her pale cheeks, her parted lips, her flashing eyes, seemed suddenly to mean one thing-he did not know what.
A light seemed to break upon her from far away-or perhaps from far within.
She seemed to grow taller, like a scarf drawn out long; looked as if she were pursued and fleeing, and-yes, she looked tormented.
It's easy to fail," he heard her say again, "and if I fail, you'd better forget about me, for I'll be one of the worst women that ever lived.
I'll be an awful woman!" In the shadowy light above the lampshade he caught her glance again and held it for a moment.
Wild as her eyes were, that yellow gleam at the back of them was as hard as a diamond drill-point.
He rose with a nervous laugh and dropped his hand lightly on her shoulder.
You'll be a splendid one!" She shook him off before he could say anything more, and went out of his door with a kind of bound.
She left so quickly and so lightly that he could not even hear her footstep in the hallway outside.
Archie dropped back into his chair and sat motionless for a long while. So it went; one loved a quaint little girl, cheerful, industrious, always on the run and hustling through her tasks; and suddenly one lost her.
He had thought he knew that child like the glove on his hand.
But about this tall girl who threw up her head and glittered like that all over, he knew nothing.
She was goaded by desires, ambitions, revulsions that were dark to him.
One thing he knew: the old highroad of life, worn safe and easy, hugging the sunny slopes, would scarcely hold her again. After that night Thea could have asked pretty much anything of him.
He could have refused her nothing.
Years ago a crafty little bunch of hair and smiles had shown him what she wanted, and he had promptly married her.
To-night a very different sort of girl-driven wild by doubts and youth, by poverty and riches-had let him see the fierceness of her nature.
She went out still distraught, not knowing or caring what she had shown him.
But to Archie knowledge of that sort was obligation.
Oh, he was the same old Howard Archie! That Sunday in July was the turning-point; Thea's peace of mind did not come back.
She found it hard even to practice at home.
There was something in the air there that froze her throat.
In the morning, she walked as far as she could walk.
In the hot afternoons she lay on her bed in her nightgown, planning fiercely.
She haunted the post-office. She must have worn a path in the sidewalk that led to the post-office, that summer.
She hung upon any sort of word from Chicago; a card from Bowers, a letter from Mrs. Harsanyi, from Mr. Larsen, from her landlady,-anything to reassure her that Chicago was still there.
She began to feel the same restlessness that had tortured her the last spring when she was teaching in Moonstone.
Suppose she never got away again, after all? Suppose one broke a leg and had to lie in bed at home for weeks, or had pneumonia and died there.
The desert was so big and thirsty; if one's foot slipped, it could drink one up like a drop of water. This time, when Thea left Moonstone to go back to Chicago, she went alone.
As the train pulled out, she looked back at her mother and father and Thor.
They were calm and cheerful; they did not know, they did not understand.
Something pulled in her-and broke.
She cried all the way to Denver, and that night, in her berth, she kept sobbing and waking herself.
But when the sun rose in the morning, she was far away. It was all behind her, and she knew that she would never cry like that again.
People live through such pain only once; pain comes again, but it finds a tougher surface.
Thea remembered how she had gone away the first time, with what confidence in everything, and what pitiful ignorance.
She felt resentful toward that stupid, good-natured child.
How much older she was now, and how much harder! She was going away to fight, and she was going away forever. PART III. STUPID FACES I So many grinning, stupid faces!
Thea was sitting by the window in Bowers's studio, waiting for him to come back from lunch.
On her knee was the latest number of an illustrated musical journal in which musicians great and little stridently advertised their wares.
Every afternoon she played accompaniments for people who looked and smiled like these.
She was getting tired of the human countenance. Thea had been in Chicago for two months.
She had a small church position which partly paid her living expenses, and she paid for her singing lessons by playing Bowers's accompaniments every afternoon from two until six.
Then she went out to lunch with an Italian grammar under her arm, and came back to the studio to begin her work at two.
He seldom missed an evening concert, and was usually to be seen lounging somewhere at the back of the concert hall, reading a newspaper or review, and conspicuously ignoring the efforts of the performers.
At the end of a number he looked up from his paper long enough to sweep the applauding audience with a contemptuous eye.
His face was intelligent, with a narrow lower jaw, a thin nose, faded gray eyes, and a close-cut brown mustache.
His hair was iron-gray, thin and dead-looking.
He went to concerts chiefly to satisfy himself as to how badly things were done and how gullible the public was.
He hated the whole race of artists; the work they did, the wages they got, and the way they spent their money.
His father, old Hiram Bowers, was still alive and at work, a genial old choirmaster in Boston, full of enthusiasm at seventy.
Madison worked under the best teachers, and afterward sang in England in oratorio.
His cold nature and academic methods were against him.
His audiences were always aware of the contempt he felt for them.
A dozen poorer singers succeeded, but Bowers did not. Bowers had all the qualities which go to make a good teacher-except generosity and warmth.
His intelligence was of a high order, his taste never at fault.
He seldom worked with a voice without improving it, and in teaching the delivery of oratorio he was without a rival.
Singers came from far and near to study Bach and Handel with him.
He was not at all above helping a very lame singer across, if her husband's check-book warranted it.
He had a whole bag of tricks for stupid people, "life-preservers," he called them.
Cheap repairs for a cheap 'un," he used to say, but the husbands never found the repairs very cheap.
Choral societies flourished in all the rich lake cities and river cities.
The soloists came to Chicago to coach with Bowers, and he often took long journeys to hear and instruct a chorus.
He was intensely avaricious, and from these semi-professionals he reaped a golden harvest.
They fed his pockets and they fed his ever-hungry contempt, his scorn of himself and his accomplices.
The more money he made, the more parsimonious he became.
His wife was so shabby that she never went anywhere with him, which suited him exactly.
Because his clients were luxurious and extravagant, he took a revengeful pleasure in having his shoes halfsoled a second time, and in getting the last wear out of a broken collar.
He had first been interested in Thea Kronborg because of her bluntness, her country roughness, and her manifest carefulness about money.
The mention of Harsanyi's name always made him pull a wry face.
He never carried a cane or wore gloves. Thea followed him from the reception-room into the studio.
I may cut my lesson out to-morrow, Mr. Bowers.
I have to hunt a new boarding-place." Bowers looked up languidly from his desk where he had begun to go over a pile of letters.
What's the matter with the Studio Club?
Been fighting with them again?" "The Club's all right for people who like to live that way.
I don't." Bowers lifted his eyebrows.
Why so tempery?" he asked as he drew a check from an envelope postmarked "Minneapolis." "I can't work with a lot of girls around.
I never could get along with girls of my own age.
I didn't come here to play kindergarten games.
Thea began energetically to arrange the scattered music on the piano. Bowers grimaced good-humoredly at her over the three checks he was pinning together.
When you come to marketing your wares in the world, a little smoothness goes farther than a great deal of talent sometimes.
If you happen to be cursed with a real talent, then you've got to be very smooth indeed, or you'll never get your money back.
Bowers snapped the elastic band around his bank-book. Thea gave him a sharp, recognizing glance.
Well, that's the money I'll have to go without," she replied. "Just what do you mean?" "I mean the money people have to grin for.
I used to know a railroad man who said there was money in every profession that you couldn't take.
He'd tried a good many jobs," Thea added musingly; "perhaps he was too particular about the kind he could take, for he never picked up much.
He was proud, but I liked him for that." Bowers rose and closed his desk.
Mrs. Priest is late again.
By the way, Miss Kronborg, remember not to frown when you are playing for Mrs. Priest.
You did not remember yesterday." "You mean when she hits a tone with her breath like that?
Why do you let her?
You wouldn't let me." "I certainly would not.
But that is a mannerism of Mrs. Priest's.
The public like it, and they pay a great deal of money for the pleasure of hearing her do it.
She was large, handsome, expansive, uncontrolled; one felt this the moment she crossed the threshold.
Her brown hair was waved in front and done up behind in a great twist, held by a tortoiseshell comb with gold filigree.
She wore a beautiful little green hat with three long green feathers sticking straight up in front, a little cape made of velvet and fur with a yellow satin rose on it.
Her gloves, her shoes, her veil, somehow made themselves felt.
She gave the impression of wearing a cargo of splendid merchandise. Mrs. Priest nodded graciously to Thea, coquettishly to Bowers, and asked him to untie her veil for her.
She threw her splendid wrap on a chair, the yellow lining out.
Thea was already at the piano.
Mrs. Priest stood behind her. "'Rejoice Greatly' first, please.
And please don't hurry it in there," she put her arm over Thea's shoulder, and indicated the passage by a sweep of her white glove.
She threw out her chest, clasped her hands over her abdomen, lifted her chin, worked the muscles of her cheeks back and forth for a moment, and then began with conviction, "Re-jo-oice!
Re-jo-oice!" Bowers paced the room with his catlike tread.
When he checked Mrs. Priest's vehemence at all, he handled her roughly; poked and hammered her massive person with cold satisfaction, almost as if he were taking out a grudge on this splendid creation.
Such treatment the imposing lady did not at all resent.
She tried harder and harder, her eyes growing all the while more lustrous and her lips redder.
He liked to watch the germination and growth of antipathies. One of the first disappointments Thea had to face when she returned to Chicago that fall, was the news that the Harsanyis were not coming back.
They had spent the summer in a camp in the Adirondacks and were moving to New York.
The Harsanyis had taken a furnished apartment in New York, as they would not attempt to settle a place of their own until Andor's recitals were over.
Mrs. Harsanyi herself opened it, and embraced her visitor warmly.
Taking Thea into the studio, which was littered with excelsior and packing-cases, she stood holding her hand and looking at her in the strong light from the big window before she allowed her to sit down.
Her quick eye saw many changes.
The girl was taller, her figure had become definite, her carriage positive.
She had got used to living in the body of a young woman, and she no longer tried to ignore it and behave as if she were a little girl.
With that increased independence of body there had come a change in her face; an indifference, something hard and skeptical.
Her clothes, too, were different, like the attire of a shopgirl who tries to follow the fashions; a purple suit, a piece of cheap fur, a three-cornered purple hat with a pompon sticking up in front.
The queer country clothes she used to wear suited her much better, Mrs. Harsanyi thought.
But such trifles, after all, were accidental and remediable.
She put her hand on the girl's strong shoulder. "How much the summer has done for you!
Yes, you are a young lady at last.
Andor will be so glad to hear about you." Thea looked about at the disorder of the familiar room.
The pictures were piled in a corner, the piano and the _chaise longue_ were gone.
I suppose I ought to be glad you have gone away," she said, "but I'm not. It's a fine thing for Mr. Harsanyi, I suppose." Mrs. Harsanyi gave her a quick glance that said more than words.
If you knew how long I have wanted to get him away from here, Miss Kronborg!
He is never tired, never discouraged, now." Thea sighed.
I'm glad for that, then.
Her eyes traveled over the faint discolorations on the walls where the pictures had hung.
I may run away myself.
I don't know whether I can stand it here without you." "We hope that you can come to New York to study before very long.
We have thought of that.
And you must tell me how you are getting on with Bowers.
Andor will want to know all about it." "I guess I get on more or less.
But I don't like my work very well.
It never seems serious as my work with Mr. Harsanyi did.
I play Bowers's accompaniments in the afternoons, you know.
I thought I would learn a good deal from the people who work with him, but I don't think I get much." Mrs. Harsanyi looked at her inquiringly.
Thea took out a carefully folded handkerchief from the bosom of her dress and began to draw the corners apart.
Singing doesn't seem to be a very brainy profession, Mrs. Harsanyi," she said slowly.
The people I see now are not a bit like the ones I used to meet here.
Mr. Harsanyi's pupils, even the dumb ones, had more-well, more of everything, it seems to me.
The people I have to play accompaniments for are discouraging.
The professionals, like Katharine Priest and Miles Murdstone, are worst of all.
If I have to play 'The Messiah' much longer for Mrs. Priest, I'll go out of my mind!
Thea brought her foot down sharply on the bare floor. Mrs. Harsanyi looked down at the foot in perplexity.
You mustn't wear such high heels, my dear.
They will spoil your walk and make you mince along.
Can't you at least learn to avoid what you dislike in these singers?
I was never able to care for Mrs. Priest's singing." Thea was sitting with her chin lowered.
Without moving her head she looked up at Mrs. Harsanyi and smiled; a smile much too cold and desperate to be seen on a young face, Mrs. Harsanyi felt.
Mrs. Harsanyi, it seems to me that what I learn is just _to dislike_.
I dislike so much and so hard that it tires me out.
I've got no heart for anything.
She threw up her head suddenly and sat in defiance, her hand clenched on the arm of the chair.
Mr. Harsanyi couldn't stand these people an hour, I know he couldn't.
He'd put them right out of the window there, frizzes and feathers and all.
Now, take that new soprano they're all making such a fuss about, Jessie Darcey.
She's going on tour with a symphony orchestra and she's working up her repertory with Bowers.
She's singing some Schumann songs Mr. Harsanyi used to go over with me.
Well, I don't know what he _would_ do if he heard her." "But if your own work goes well, and you know these people are wrong, why do you let them discourage you?" Thea shook her head.
That's just what I don't understand myself.
Only, after I've heard them all afternoon, I come out frozen up.
Somehow it takes the shine off of everything.
People want Jessie Darcey and the kind of thing she does; so what's the use?" Mrs. Harsanyi smiled.
That stile you must simply vault over.
You must not begin to fret about the successes of cheap people.
After all, what have they to do with you?" "Well, if I had somebody like Mr. Harsanyi, perhaps I wouldn't fret about them.
He was the teacher for me.
Please tell him so." Thea rose and Mrs. Harsanyi took her hand again.
I am sorry you have to go through this time of discouragement.
I wish Andor could talk to you, he would understand it so well.
But I feel like urging you to keep clear of Mrs. Priest and Jessie Darcey and all their works." Thea laughed discordantly.
I don't get on with them _at all_.
My spine gets like a steel rail when they come near me.
I liked them at first, you know.
Their clothes and their manners were so fine, and Mrs. Priest _is_ handsome.
But now I keep wanting to tell them how stupid they are.
Seems like they ought to be informed, don't you think so?
There was a flash of the shrewd grin that Mrs. Harsanyi remembered.
I had to give my lesson hour this morning to a Duluth woman who has come on to coach, and I must go and play 'On Mighty Pens' for her.
Please tell Mr. Harsanyi that I think oratorio is a great chance for bluffers." Mrs. Harsanyi detained her.
But he will want to know much more than that about you.
You are free at seven?
Come back this evening, then, and we will go to dinner somewhere, to some cheerful place.
I think you need a party." Thea brightened.
I'll love to come; that will be like old times.
You see," she lingered a moment, softening, "I wouldn't mind if there were only _one_ of them I could really admire." "How about Bowers?
Mrs. Harsanyi asked as they were approaching the stairway. "Well, there's nothing he loves like a good fakir, and nothing he hates like a good artist.
I always remember something Mr. Harsanyi said about him.
He said Bowers was the cold muffin that had been left on the plate." Mrs. Harsanyi stopped short at the head of the stairs and said decidedly: "I think Andor made a mistake.
I can't believe that is the right atmosphere for you.
It would hurt you more than most people.
The boarding-houses were wretchedly conducted and Thea's complaints sometimes took an insulting form.
She quarreled with one landlady after another and moved on.
They liked her, however, and when she left the house after a storm, they helped her to move her things and came to see her after she got settled in a new place.
But she moved so often that they soon ceased to follow her.
They could see no reason for keeping up with a girl who, under her jocularity, was cold, self-centered, and unimpressionable.
She had never been conscious of those instinctive standards which are called ideals, and she did not know that she was suffering for them.
After one of Jessie Darcey's concerts the glowing press notices, and the admiring comments that floated about Bowers's studio, caused Thea bitter unhappiness.
It was not the torment of personal jealousy.
She had never thought of herself as even a possible rival of Miss Darcey.
She was a poor music student, and Jessie Darcey was a popular and petted professional.
Mrs. Priest, whatever one held against her, had a fine, big, showy voice and an impressive presence.
She read indifferently, was inaccurate, and was always putting other people wrong, but she at least had the material out of which singers can be made.
But people seemed to like Jessie Darcey exactly because she could not sing; because, as they put it, she was "so natural and unprofessional.
Her singing was pronounced "artless," her voice "birdlike.
Miss Darcey was thin and awkward in person, with a sharp, sallow face.
Thea noticed that her plainness was accounted to her credit, and that people spoke of it affectionately.
Miss Darcey was singing everywhere just then; one could not help hearing about her.
She was backed by some of the packing-house people and by the Chicago Northwestern Railroad.
Only one critic raised his voice against her. Thea went to several of Jessie Darcey's concerts.
It was the first time she had had an opportunity to observe the whims of the public which singers live by interesting.
She saw that people liked in Miss Darcey every quality a singer ought not to have, and especially the nervous complacency that stamped her as a commonplace young woman.
They seemed to have a warmer feeling for Jessie than for Mrs. Priest, an affectionate and cherishing regard.
Chicago was not so very different from Moonstone, after all, and Jessie Darcey was only Lily Fisher under another name. Thea particularly hated to accompany for Miss Darcey because she sang off pitch and didn't mind it in the least.
It was excruciating to sit there day after day and hear her; there was something shameless and indecent about not singing true. One morning Miss Darcey came by appointment to go over the programme for her Peoria concert.
She was such a frail-looking girl that Thea ought to have felt sorry for her.
True, she had an arch, sprightly little manner, and a flash of salmon-pink on either brown cheek.
But a narrow upper jaw gave her face a pinched look, and her eyelids were heavy and relaxed.
By the morning light, the purplish brown circles under her eyes were pathetic enough, and foretold no long or brilliant future.
A singer with a poor digestion and low vitality; she needed no seer to cast her horoscope.
If Thea had ever taken the pains to study her, she would have seen that, under all her smiles and archness, poor Miss Darcey was really frightened to death.
She could not understand her success any more than Thea could; she kept catching her breath and lifting her eyebrows and trying to believe that it was true.
Oh why did you stop just there!
Now we'd better go back to that other _crescendo_ and try it from there." "I beg your pardon," Thea muttered.
I thought you wanted to get that B natural.
She began again, as Miss Darcey indicated. After the singer was gone, Bowers walked up to Thea and asked languidly, "Why do you hate Jessie so?
Her little variations from pitch are between her and her public; they don't hurt you.
Has she ever done anything to you except be very agreeable?" "Yes, she has done things to me," Thea retorted hotly. Bowers looked interested.
What, for example?" "I can't explain, but I've got it in for her." Bowers laughed.
I'll have to suggest that you conceal it a little more effectually.
That is-necessary, Miss Kronborg," he added, looking back over the shoulder of the overcoat he was putting on. He went out to lunch and Thea thought the subject closed.
And how did you form your conception of what a singer ought to be?" he asked. "I don't know.
She knew she had offended Bowers.
Somehow she had hurt herself, too.
She felt unequal to the boarding-house table, the sneaking divinity student who sat next her and had tried to kiss her on the stairs last night.
She went over to the waterside of Michigan Avenue and walked along beside the lake. It was a clear, frosty winter night.
The great empty space over the water was restful and spoke of freedom.
If she had any money at all, she would go away.
The stars glittered over the wide black water.
She looked up at them wearily and shook her head.
She believed that what she felt was despair, but it was only one of the forms of hope.
She felt, indeed, as if she were bidding the stars good-bye; but she was renewing a promise.
Money and office and success are the consolations of impotence.
Fortune turns kind to such solid people and lets them suck their bone in peace.
She went out from it to uncertainties, and hastened to it from nebulous confusion.
She was more influenced by Bowers than she knew.
Unconsciously she began to take on something of his dry contempt, and to share his grudge without understanding exactly what it was about.
His cynicism seemed to her honest, and the amiability of his pupils artificial.
She admired his drastic treatment of his dull pupils.
The stupid deserved all they got, and more.
I like him better than the others." Bowers nodded.
He's a beer prince: son of the big brewer in St. Louis.
He's been in Germany with his mother.
I didn't know he was back." "Does he take lessons?" "Now and again.
He's at the head of the Chicago branch of the Ottenburg business, but he can't stick to work and is always running away.
He has great ideas in beer, people tell me.
Oh, he's a lady-killer, all right!
The girls in here are always making eyes at him.
You won't be the first.
He threw some sheets of music on the piano.
Better look that over; accompaniment's a little tricky.
It's for that new woman from Detroit.
And Mrs. Priest will be in this afternoon." Thea sighed.
I Know that my Redeemer Liveth'?" "The same.
She starts on her concert tour next week, and we'll have a rest.
Until then, I suppose we'll have to be going over her programme." The next day Thea hurried through her luncheon at a German bakery and got back to the studio at ten minutes past one.
Ah-ha!" he exclaimed, "I thought if I came early I might have good luck.
And how are you to-day, Miss Kronborg?" Thea was sitting in the window chair.
At her left elbow there was a table, and upon this table the young man sat down, holding his hat and cane in his hand, loosening his long coat so that it fell back from his shoulders.
He was a gleaming, florid young fellow.
His hair, thick and yellow, was cut very short, and he wore a closely trimmed beard, long enough on the chin to curl a little.
Even his eyebrows were thick and yellow, like fleece.
He had lively blue eyes-Thea looked up at them with great interest as he sat chatting and swinging his foot rhythmically.
He was easily familiar, and frankly so.
Wherever people met young Ottenburg, in his office, on shipboard, in a foreign hotel or railway compartment, they always felt (and usually liked) that artless presumption which seemed to say, "In this case we may waive formalities.
This is to-day, but it will soon be to-morrow, and then we may be very different people, and in some other country.
He had a way of floating people out of dull or awkward situations, out of their own torpor or constraint or discouragement.
It was a marked personal talent, of almost incalculable value in the representative of a great business founded on social amenities.
Thea had liked him yesterday for the way in which he had picked her up out of herself and her German grammar for a few exciting moments. "By the way, will you tell me your first name, please?
Oh, then you _are_ a Swede, sure enough!
Let me call you Miss Thea, after the German fashion.
He usually made his assumption of a special understanding seem a tribute to the other person and not to himself. "How long have you been with Bowers here?
Do you like the old grouch? So do I.
I've come to tell him about a new soprano I heard at Bayreuth. He'll pretend not to care, but he does.
Do you warble with him?
Have you anything of a voice?
You look it, you know.
What are you going in for, something big?
Oh, I'm not going in for anything.
I'm trying to learn to sing at funerals." Ottenburg leaned forward.
I'll engage you to sing at mine.
You can't fool me, Miss Thea.
May I hear you take your lesson this afternoon?" "No, you may not.
I took it this morning." He picked up a roll of music that lay behind him on the table.
Let me see what you are doing." He snapped back the clasp and began turning over the songs.
All very fine, but tame.
What's he got you at this Mozart stuff for?
I shouldn't think it would suit your voice.
Oh, I can make a pretty good guess at what will suit you!
This from 'Gioconda' is more in your line.
What does that mean?" "'Thanks for your Advice.
Don't you know it?" "No; not at all.
He rose, pushed open the door into the music-room, and motioned Thea to enter before him.
She hung back. "I couldn't give you much of an idea of it.
It's a big song." Ottenburg took her gently by the elbow and pushed her into the other room.
He sat down carelessly at the piano and looked over the music for a moment.
I think I can get you through it.
But how stupid not to have the German words.
Can you really sing the Norwegian?
What an infernal language to sing.
Translate the text for me.
He handed her the music. Thea looked at it, then at him, and shook her head.
The truth is I don't know either English or Swedish very well, and Norwegian's still worse," she said confidentially.
She not infrequently refused to do what she was asked to do, but it was not like her to explain her refusal, even when she had a good reason. "I understand.
We immigrants never speak any language well.
But you know what it means, don't you?" "Of course I do!" "Then don't frown at me like that, but tell me." Thea continued to frown, but she also smiled.
She was confused, but not embarrassed.
She was not afraid of Ottenburg.
He was not one of those people who made her spine like a steel rail.
On the contrary, he made one venturesome. "Well, it goes something like this: _Thanks for your advice!
But I prefer to steer my boat into the din of roaring breakers.
Even if the journey is my last, I may find what I have never found before.
Onward must I go, for I yearn for the wild sea.
I long to fight my way through the angry waves, and to see how far, and how long I can make them carry me._" Ottenburg took the music and began: "Wait a moment.
Is that too fast? How do you take it?
He pulled up his cuffs and began the accompaniment again.
He had become entirely serious, and he played with fine enthusiasm and with understanding. Fred's talent was worth almost as much to old Otto Ottenburg as the steady industry of his older sons.
When Fred sang the Prize Song at an interstate meet of the _Turnverein_, ten thousand _Turners_ went forth pledged to Ottenburg beer. As Thea finished the song Fred turned back to the first page, without looking up from the music.
Now, once more," he called.
They began again, and did not hear Bowers when he came in and stood in the doorway.
Her whole back seemed plastic, seemed to be moulding itself to the galloping rhythm of the song.
Bowers perceived such things sometimes-unwillingly.
He had known to-day that there was something afoot.
The river of sound which had its source in his pupil had caught him two flights down.
He had stopped and listened with a kind of sneering admiration.
From the door he watched her with a half-incredulous, half-malicious smile. When he had struck the keys for the last time, Ottenburg dropped his hands on his knees and looked up with a quick breath.
Did I play it right?" Thea studied his excited face.
There was a good deal of meaning in it, and there was a good deal in her own as she answered him.
You suited me," she said ungrudgingly. After Ottenburg was gone, Thea noticed that Bowers was more agreeable than usual.
She had heard the young brewer ask Bowers to dine with him at his club that evening, and she saw that he looked forward to the dinner with pleasure.
He dropped a remark to the effect that Fred knew as much about food and wines as any man in Chicago.
He said this boastfully. "If he's such a grand business man, how does he have time to run around listening to singing-lessons?
Thea asked suspiciously. As she went home to her boarding-house through the February slush, she wished she were going to dine with them.
At nine o'clock she looked up from her grammar to wonder what Bowers and Ottenburg were having to eat.
At that moment they were talking of her. IV Thea noticed that Bowers took rather more pains with her now that Fred Ottenburg often dropped in at eleven-thirty to hear her lesson.
After the lesson the young man took Bowers off to lunch with him, and Bowers liked good food when another man paid for it.
He encouraged Fred's visits, and Thea soon saw that Fred knew exactly why. One morning, after her lesson, Ottenburg turned to Bowers.
If you'll lend me Miss Thea, I think I have an engagement for her.
Mrs. Henry Nathanmeyer is going to give three musical evenings in April, first three Saturdays, and she has consulted me about soloists.
For the first evening she has a young violinist, and she would be charmed to have Miss Kronborg.
She will pay fifty dollars.
Not much, but Miss Thea would meet some people there who might be useful.
What do you say?" Bowers passed the question on to Thea.
I guess you could use the fifty, couldn't you, Miss Kronborg?
You can easily work up some songs." Thea was perplexed.
I need the money awfully," she said frankly; "but I haven't got the right clothes for that sort of thing.
I suppose I'd better try to get some." Ottenburg spoke up quickly, "Oh, you'd make nothing out of it if you went to buying evening clothes.
Mrs. Nathanmeyer has a troop of daughters, a perfect seraglio, all ages and sizes. She'll be glad to fit you out, if you aren't sensitive about wearing kosher clothes.
Let me take you to see her, and you'll find that she'll arrange that easily enough.
I told her she must produce something nice, blue or yellow, and properly cut.
I shall call for you at eight.
Bring all your songs along; she will want us to give her a little rehearsal, perhaps. I'll play your accompaniments, if you've no objection.
That will save money for you and for Mrs. Nathanmeyer.
Ottenburg chuckled as he took down the number of Thea's boarding-house. The Nathanmeyers were so rich and great that even Thea had heard of them, and this seemed a very remarkable opportunity.
Ottenburg had brought it about by merely lifting a finger, apparently.
He was a beer prince sure enough, as Bowers had said. The next evening at a quarter to eight Thea was dressed and waiting in the boarding-house parlor.
There was no one in the parlor but the medical student, who was playing one of Sousa's marches so vigorously that the china ornaments on the top of the piano rattled.
In a few moments some of the pension-office girls would come in and begin to two-step.
Thea wished that Ottenburg would come and let her escape.
She glanced at herself in the long, somber mirror.
She was wearing her pale-blue broadcloth church dress, which was not unbecoming but was certainly too heavy to wear to anybody's house in the evening.
Her slippers were run over at the heel and she had not had time to have them mended, and her white gloves were not so clean as they should be.
Thea jumped up and ran into the hall, where Ottenburg stood smiling, his caped cloak open, his silk hat in his white-kid hand.
The Hungarian girl stood like a monument on her flat heels, staring at the pink carnation in Ottenburg's coat.
Her broad, pockmarked face wore the only expression of which it was capable, a kind of animal wonder.
Can you understand her?" Ottenburg laughed as he helped her into the carriage.
Oh, yes; I can understand her!
He settled himself on the front seat opposite Thea. "Now, I want to tell you about the people we are going to see.
We may have a musical public in this country some day, but as yet there are only the Germans and the Jews.
All the other people go to hear Jessie Darcey sing, 'O, Promise Me!
The Nathanmeyers are the finest kind of Jews.
If you do anything for Mrs. Henry Nathanmeyer, you must put yourself into her hands.
Whatever she says about music, about clothes, about life, will be correct.
And you may feel at ease with her.
She expects nothing of people; she has lived in Chicago twenty years.
If you were to behave like the Magyar who was so interested in my buttonhole, she would not be surprised.
If you were to sing like Jessie Darcey, she would not be surprised; but she would manage not to hear you again." "Would she?
Well, that's the kind of people I want to find.
Thea felt herself growing bolder. "You will be all right with her so long as you do not try to be anything that you are not.
Her standards have nothing to do with Chicago.
Her perceptions-or her grandmother's, which is the same thing-were keen when all this was an Indian village.
So merely be yourself, and you will like her.
His somewhat academic manner amused her. "What makes you take such an interest in singers?" she asked curiously. "You seem to have a perfect passion for hearing music-lessons.
I wish I could trade jobs with you!" "I'm not interested in singers.
I am interested in talent.
There are only two interesting things in the world, anyhow; and talent is one of them." "What's the other?
The question came meekly from the figure opposite him.
Another arc-light flashed in at the window. Fred saw her face and broke into a laugh.
Why, you're guying me, you little wretch!
You won't let me behave properly.
I'm in earnest all right; only I never was much good at talking. Jessie Darcey is the smooth talker.
You notice the effect I get there-' If she only got 'em, she'd be a wonder, you know!" Mr. and Mrs. Nathanmeyer were alone in their great library.
Their three unmarried daughters had departed in successive carriages, one to a dinner, one to a Nietszche club, one to a ball given for the girls employed in the big department stores.
When Ottenburg and Thea entered, Henry Nathanmeyer and his wife were sitting at a table at the farther end of the long room, with a reading-lamp and a tray of cigarettes and cordial-glasses between them.
The overhead lights were too soft to bring out the colors of the big rugs, and none of the picture lights were on.
One could merely see that there were pictures there.
Fred whispered that they were Rousseaus and Corots, very fine ones which the old banker had bought long ago for next to nothing.
In the hall Ottenburg had stopped Thea before a painting of a woman eating grapes out of a paper bag, and had told her gravely that there was the most beautiful Manet in the world.
She wore a black velvet dress with a long train, and a diamond necklace and earrings.
She took Thea to the other side of the table and presented her to Mr. Nathanmeyer, who apologized for not rising, pointing to a slippered foot on a cushion; he said that he suffered from gout.
He had a very soft voice and spoke with an accent which would have been heavy if it had not been so caressing.
He kept Thea standing beside him for some time.
He admired her just as she was, as she happened to be standing, and she felt it.
He was much handsomer than his wife, Thea thought.
His forehead was high, his hair soft and white, his skin pink, a little puffy under his clear blue eyes.
She noticed how warm and delicate his hands were, pleasant to touch and beautiful to look at.
He was interested to hear that her mother's mother was still living, and that her grandfather had played the oboe.
Thea felt at home standing there beside him; she felt that he was very wise, and that he some way took one's life up and looked it over kindly, as if it were a story.
She was sorry when they left him to go into the music-room. As they reached the door of the music-room, Mrs. Nathanmeyer turned a switch that threw on many lights.
The room was even larger than the library, all glittering surfaces, with two Steinway pianos. Mrs. Nathanmeyer rang for her own maid.
Selma will take you upstairs, Miss Kronborg, and you will find some dresses on the bed.
Try several of them, and take the one you like best.
She has a great deal of taste.
I liked her when she talked to father.
She will always get on better with men." Ottenburg leaned over her chair.
Do you see what I meant?" "About her beauty?
She has great possibilities, but you can never tell about those Northern women.
They look so strong, but they are easily battered.
The face falls so early under those wide cheek-bones.
A single idea-hate or greed, or even love-can tear them to shreds.
Well, in ten years she may have quite a regal beauty, or she may have a heavy, discontented face, all dug out in channels.
That will depend upon the kind of ideas she lives with." "Or the kind of people?
Ottenburg suggested. The old Jewess folded her arms over her massive chest, drew back her shoulders, and looked up at the young man.
With that hard glint in her eye?
The people won't matter much, I fancy.
They will come and go.
She is very much interested in herself-as she should be." Ottenburg frowned.
Wait until you hear her sing.
Her eyes are different then.
That gleam that comes in them is curious, isn't it?
As you say, it's impersonal." The object of this discussion came in, smiling.
She had chosen neither the blue nor the yellow gown, but a pale rose-color, with silver butterflies.
Mrs. Nathanmeyer lifted her lorgnette and studied her as she approached.
She caught the characteristic things at once: the free, strong walk, the calm carriage of the head, the milky whiteness of the girl's arms and shoulders. "Yes, that color is good for you," she said approvingly.
The yellow one probably killed your hair?
Yes; this does very well indeed, so we need think no more about it." Thea glanced questioningly at Ottenburg.
He smiled and bowed, seemed perfectly satisfied.
He asked her to stand in the elbow of the piano, in front of him, instead of behind him as she had been taught to do. "Yes," said the hostess with feeling.
You accented it more, like a dance or a galop.
How did you do it?" Thea laughed, glancing sidewise at Mrs. Nathanmeyer.
You want it rough-house, do you?
Bowers likes me to sing it more seriously, but it always makes me think about a story my grandmother used to tell." Fred pointed to the chair behind her.
Won't you rest a moment and tell us about it?
I thought you had some notion about it when you first sang it for me." Thea sat down.
In Norway my grandmother knew a girl who was awfully in love with a young fellow.
She went into service on a big dairy farm to make enough money for her outfit.
They were married at Christmastime, and everybody was glad, because they'd been sighing around about each other for so long.
That very summer, the day before St. John's Day, her husband caught her carrying on with another farm-hand.
The next night all the farm people had a bonfire and a big dance up on the mountain, and everybody was dancing and singing.
I guess they were all a little drunk, for they got to seeing how near they could make the girls dance to the edge of the cliff.
Ole-he was the girl's husband-seemed the jolliest and the drunkest of anybody.
Let it go!" Thea took her place.
She laughed and drew herself up out of her corsets, threw her shoulders high and let them drop again.
She had never sung in a low dress before, and she found it comfortable. Ottenburg jerked his head and they began the song.
The accompaniment sounded more than ever like the thumping and scraping of heavy feet. When they stopped, they heard a sympathetic tapping at the end of the room.
Old Mr. Nathanmeyer had come to the door and was sitting back in the shadow, just inside the library, applauding with his cane.
Thea threw him a bright smile.
He continued to sit there, his slippered foot on a low chair, his cane between his fingers, and she glanced at him from time to time.
The doorway made a frame for him, and he looked like a man in a picture, with the long, shadowy room behind him. Mrs. Nathanmeyer summoned the maid again.
Selma will pack that gown in a box for you, and you can take it home in Mr. Ottenburg's carriage." Thea turned to follow the maid, but hesitated.
Shall I wear gloves?" she asked, turning again to Mrs. Nathanmeyer. "No, I think not.
That's the first real voice I have heard in Chicago," she said decidedly.
I don't count that stupid Priest woman.
What do you say, father?" Mr. Nathanmeyer shook his white head and smiled softly, as if he were thinking about something very agreeable. "_Svensk sommar_," he murmured.
She is like a Swedish summer.
I spent nearly a year there when I was a young man," he explained to Ottenburg. When Ottenburg got Thea and her big box into the carriage, it occurred to him that she must be hungry, after singing so much.
When he asked her, she admitted that she was very hungry, indeed. He took out his watch.
Would you mind stopping somewhere with me?
Of course, I wouldn't mind.
I wasn't brought up like that.
I can take care of myself." Ottenburg laughed.
And I can take care of myself, so we can do lots of jolly things together.
He opened the carriage door and spoke to the driver.
I'm stuck on the way you sing that Grieg song," he declared. When Thea got into bed that night she told herself that this was the happiest evening she had had in Chicago.
She had enjoyed the Nathanmeyers and their grand house, her new dress, and Ottenburg, her first real carriage ride, and the good supper when she was so hungry. And Ottenburg _was_ jolly!
He made you want to come back at him.
You weren't always being caught up and mystified.
When you started in with him, you went; you cut the breeze, as Ray used to say.
He had some go in him. Philip Frederick Ottenburg was the third son of the great brewer.
As a young woman she had been a conspicuous figure in German-American society in New York, and not untouched by scandal.
She was a handsome, headstrong girl, a rebellious and violent force in a provincial society.
She was brutally sentimental and heavily romantic.
Her free speech, her Continental ideas, and her proclivity for championing new causes, even when she did not know much about them, made her an object of suspicion.
Even as children they were industrious, earnest little tradesmen.
As Frau Ottenburg said, "she had to wait for her Fred, but she got him at last," the first man who had altogether pleased her.
Frederick entered Harvard when he was eighteen.
When his mother went to Boston to visit him, she not only got him everything he wished for, but she made handsome and often embarrassing presents to all his friends.
She gave dinners and supper parties for the Glee Club, made the crew break training, and was a generally disturbing influence.
In his third year Fred left the university because of a serious escapade which had somewhat hampered his life ever since.
He had never wanted anything that he could not have it, and he might have had a great many things that he had never wanted. He was extravagant, but not prodigal.
He turned most of the money his mother gave him into the business, and lived on his generous salary. Fred had never been bored for a whole day in his life.
When he was in Chicago or St. Louis, he went to ballgames, prize-fights, and horse-races.
When he was in Germany, he went to concerts and to the opera.
He belonged to a long list of sporting-clubs and hunting-clubs, and was a good boxer.
He had so many natural interests that he had no affectations.
At Harvard he kept away from the aesthetic circle that had already discovered Francis Thompson.
He liked no poetry but German poetry.
Physical energy was the thing he was full to the brim of, and music was one of its natural forms of expression.
He had a healthy love of sport and art, of eating and drinking.
When he was in Germany, he scarcely knew where the soup ended and the symphony began. V March began badly for Thea.
She had a cold during the first week, and after she got through her church duties on Sunday she had to go to bed with tonsilitis.
She was still in the boarding-house at which young Ottenburg had called when he took her to see Mrs. Nathanmeyer.
Her rooms had all been as damp and mouldy as they were dark, with deep foundations of dirt under the carpets, and dirty walls.
In her present room there was no running water and no clothes closet, and she had to have the dresser moved out to make room for her piano.
But there were two windows, one on the south and one on the west, a light wall-paper with morning-glory vines, and on the floor a clean matting.
The landlady had tried to make the room look cheerful, because it was hard to let.
It was so small that Thea could keep it clean herself, after the Hun had done her worst.
She hung her dresses on the door under a sheet, used the washstand for a dresser, slept on a cot, and opened both the windows when she practiced.
She felt less walled in than she had in the other houses. Wednesday was her third day in bed.
The Hungarian chambermaid brought her soup and toast.
The exertion made her feel miserably ill, but at least she could lie still contentedly for a long while afterward.
She hated the poisoned feeling in her throat, and no matter how often she gargled she felt unclean and disgusting.
Still, if she had to be ill, she was almost glad that she had a contagious illness.
Otherwise she would have been at the mercy of the people in the house.
She knew that they disliked her, yet now that she was ill, they took it upon themselves to tap at her door, send her messages, books, even a miserable flower or two.
Thea knew that their sympathy was an expression of self-righteousness, and she hated them for it.
The divinity student, who was always whispering soft things to her, sent her "The Kreutzer Sonata." The medical student had been kind to her: he knew that she did not want to pay a doctor.
His gargle had helped her, and he gave her things to make her sleep at night.
But he had been a cheat, too.
He had exceeded his rights.
She had no soreness in her chest, and had told him so clearly.
All this thumping of her back, and listening to her breathing, was done to satisfy personal curiosity.
She had watched him with a contemptuous smile.
She was too sick to care; if it amused him-She made him wash his hands before he touched her; he was never very clean.
All the same, it wounded her and made her feel that the world was a pretty disgusting place.
The Kreutzer Sonata" did not make her feel any more cheerful.
She threw it aside with hatred.
That was much the worst thing about being sick.
If she were going to the studio every day, she might be having pleasant encounters with Fred.
He was always running away, Bowers said, and he might be planning to go away as soon as Mrs. Nathanmeyer's evenings were over.
And here she was losing all this time! After a while she heard the Hun's clumsy trot in the hall, and then a pound on the door.
Mary came in, making her usual uncouth sounds, carrying a long box and a big basket.
Thea sat up in bed and tore off the strings and paper.
The basket was full of fruit, with a big Hawaiian pineapple in the middle, and in the box there were layers of pink roses with long, woody stems and dark-green leaves.
They filled the room with a cool smell that made another air to breathe.
Mary stood with her apron full of paper and cardboard.
When she saw Thea take an envelope out from under the flowers, she uttered an exclamation, pointed to the roses, and then to the bosom of her own dress, on the left side.
She pointed to the water pitcher,-she had nothing else big enough to hold the flowers,-and made Mary put it on the window sill beside her. After Mary was gone Thea locked the door.
When the landlady knocked, she pretended that she was asleep.
She lay still all afternoon and with drowsy eyes watched the roses open.
They were the first hothouse flowers she had ever had.
The cool fragrance they released was soothing, and as the pink petals curled back, they were the only things between her and the gray sky.
She lay on her side, putting the room and the boarding-house behind her.
Fred knew where all the pleasant things in the world were, she reflected, and knew the road to them.
He had keys to all the nice places in his pocket, and seemed to jingle them from time to time.
And then, he was young; and her friends had always been old.
Her mind went back over them.
They had all been teachers; wonderfully kind, but still teachers.
Ray Kennedy, she knew, had wanted to marry her, but he was the most protecting and teacher-like of them all.
She moved impatiently in her cot and threw her braids away from her hot neck, over her pillow.
I don't want him for a teacher," she thought, frowning petulantly out of the window.
I've had such a string of them.
Work, I suppose." "With Bowers, you mean?
Even Bowers goes fishing for a month.
Chicago's no place to work, in the summer.
Haven't you made any plans?" Thea shrugged her shoulders.
No use having any plans when you haven't any money.
They are unbecoming." "Aren't you going home?" She shook her head.
No. It won't be comfortable there till I've got something to show for myself.
I'm not getting on at all, you know.
This year has been mostly wasted." "You're stale; that's what's the matter with you.
And just now you're dead tired.
You'll talk more rationally after you've had some tea.
Rest your throat until it comes.
They were sitting by a window.
As Ottenburg looked at her in the gray light, he remembered what Mrs. Nathanmeyer had said about the Swedish face "breaking early.
Thea was as gray as the weather.
Her hair, too, though on a damp day it curled charmingly about her face, looked pale. Fred beckoned the waiter and increased his order for food.
Thea did not hear him.
She was staring out of the window, down at the roof of the Art Institute and the green lions, dripping in the rain.
The lake was all rolling mist, with a soft shimmer of robin's-egg blue in the gray. A lumber boat, with two very tall masts, was emerging gaunt and black out of the fog.
When the tea came Thea ate hungrily, and Fred watched her.
He thought her eyes became a little less bleak.
The kettle sang cheerfully over the spirit lamp, and she seemed to concentrate her attention upon that pleasant sound.
She kept looking toward it listlessly and indulgently, in a way that gave him a realization of her loneliness.
Fred lit a cigarette and smoked thoughtfully.
He and Thea were alone in the quiet, dusky room full of white tables.
In those days Chicago people never stopped for tea.
Come," he said at last, "what would you do this summer, if you could do whatever you wished?" "I'd go a long way from here!
Maybe I could get some of my spring back.
All this cold, cloudy weather,"-she looked out at the lake and shivered,-"I don't know, it does things to me," she ended abruptly. Fred nodded.
You've been going down ever since you had tonsilitis.
What you need is to sit in the sun and bake for three months.
You've got the right idea.
I remember once when we were having dinner somewhere you kept asking me about the Cliff-Dweller ruins.
Do they still interest you?" "Of course they do.
I've always wanted to go down there-long before I ever got in for this." "I don't think I told you, but my father owns a whole canyon full of Cliff-Dweller ruins.
He has a big worthless ranch down in Arizona, near a Navajo reservation, and there's a canyon on the place they call Panther Canyon, chock full of that sort of thing.
I often go down there to hunt.
Henry Biltmer and his wife live there and keep a tidy place. He's an old German who worked in the brewery until he lost his health. Now he runs a few cattle.
Henry likes to do me a favor.
I've done a few for him.
Fred drowned his cigarette in his saucer and studied Thea's expression, which was wistful and intent, envious and admiring.
He continued with satisfaction: "If you went down there and stayed with them for two or three months, they wouldn't let you pay anything.
I might send Henry a new gun, but even I couldn't offer him money for putting up a friend of mine.
It would make a new girl of you.
Let me write to Henry, and you pack your trunk. That's all that's necessary.
No red tape about it.
What do you say, Thea?" She bit her lip, and sighed as if she were waking up. Fred crumpled his napkin impatiently.
Well, isn't it easy enough?" "That's the trouble; it's _too_ easy.
I'm not used to getting things for nothing." Ottenburg laughed.
Oh, if that's all, I'll show you how to begin.
You won't get this for nothing, quite.
I'll ask you to let me stop off and see you on my way to California.
Perhaps by that time you will be glad to see me.
Better let me break the news to Bowers.
He needs a little transportation himself now and then.
You must get corduroy riding-things and leather leggings.
There are a few snakes about.
Why do you keep frowning?" "Well, I don't exactly see why you take the trouble.
What do you get out of it?
You haven't liked me so well the last two or three weeks." Fred dropped his third cigarette and looked at his watch.
If you don't see that, it's because you need a tonic.
I'll show you what I'll get out of it.
Now I'm going to get a cab and take you home.
You are too tired to walk a step.
You'd better get to bed as soon as you get there. Of course, I don't like you so well when you're half anaesthetized all the time.
What have you been doing to yourself?" Thea rose.
Being bored eats the heart out of me, I guess.
She walked meekly in front of him to the elevator.
Fred noticed for the hundredth time how vehemently her body proclaimed her state of feeling.
He remembered how remarkably brilliant and beautiful she had been when she sang at Mrs. Nathanmeyer's: flushed and gleaming, round and supple, something that couldn't be dimmed or downed.
And now she seemed a moving figure of discouragement.
The very waiters glanced at her apprehensively.
It was not that she made a fuss, but her back was most extraordinarily vocal.
One never needed to see her face to know what she was full of that day.
Yet she was certainly not mercurial.
Her flesh seemed to take a mood and to "set," like plaster.
As he put her into the cab, Fred reflected once more that he "gave her up.
About its base lie the pine forests of the Navajos, where the great red-trunked trees live out their peaceful centuries in that sparkling air.
The great pines stand at a considerable distance from each other.
Each tree grows alone, murmurs alone, thinks alone.
They do not intrude upon each other.
The Navajos are not much in the habit of giving or of asking help.
Their language is not a communicative one, and they never attempt an interchange of personality in speech.
Over their forests there is the same inexorable reserve.
The white peak of the mountain, the snow gorges above the timber, now disappeared from time to time as the road dropped and dropped, and the forest closed behind the wagon.
More than the mountain disappeared as the forest closed thus.
Thea seemed to be taking very little through the wood with her.
The personality of which she was so tired seemed to let go of her. The high, sparkling air drank it up like blotting-paper.
The old, fretted lines which marked one off, which defined her,-made her Thea Kronborg, Bowers's accompanist, a soprano with a faulty middle voice,-were all erased. So far she had failed.
Her two years in Chicago had not resulted in anything.
She had failed with Harsanyi, and she had made no great progress with her voice.
She had come to believe that whatever Bowers had taught her was of secondary importance, and that in the essential things she had made no advance.
Her student life closed behind her, like the forest, and she doubted whether she could go back to it if she tried.
Probably she would teach music in little country towns all her life.
Failure was not so tragic as she would have supposed; she was tired enough not to care. She was getting back to the earliest sources of gladness that she could remember.
She had loved the sun, and the brilliant solitudes of sand and sun, long before these other things had come along to fasten themselves upon her and torment her.
That night, when she clambered into her big German feather bed, she felt completely released from the enslaving desire to get on in the world.
Darkness had once again the sweet wonder that it had in childhood. II Thea's life at the Ottenburg ranch was simple and full of light, like the days themselves.
She awoke every morning when the first fierce shafts of sunlight darted through the curtainless windows of her room at the ranch house.
After breakfast she took her lunch-basket and went down to the canyon.
This canyon headed on the Ottenburg ranch, about a mile from the ranch house, and it was accessible only at its head.
The canyon walls, for the first two hundred feet below the surface, were perpendicular cliffs, striped with even-running strata of rock.
The effect was that of a gentler canyon within a wilder one.
The dead city lay at the point where the perpendicular outer wall ceased and the V-shaped inner gorge began.
There a stratum of rock, softer than those above, had been hollowed out by the action of time until it was like a deep groove running along the sides of the canyon.
In this hollow (like a great fold in the rock) the Ancient People had built their houses of yellowish stone and mortar.
The over-hanging cliff above made a roof two hundred feet thick.
The hard stratum below was an everlasting floor.
The canyon had a dozen of these false endings near its head.
Beyond, the windings were larger and less perceptible, and it went on for a hundred miles, too narrow, precipitous, and terrible for man to follow it.
One of these rock-rooms Thea took for her own.
Fred had told her how to make it comfortable.
The day after she came old Henry brought over on one of the pack-ponies a roll of Navajo blankets that belonged to Fred, and Thea lined her cave with them.
The room was not more than eight by ten feet, and she could touch the stone roof with her finger-tips.
This was her old idea: a nest in a high cliff, full of sun. All morning long the sun beat upon her cliff, while the ruins on the opposite side of the canyon were in shadow.
In the afternoon, when she had the shade of two hundred feet of rock wall, the ruins on the other side of the gulf stood out in the blazing sunlight.
Before her door ran the narrow, winding path that had been the street of the Ancient People.
The yucca and niggerhead cactus grew everywhere.
From her doorstep she looked out on the ocher-colored slope that ran down several hundred feet to the stream, and this hot rock was sparsely grown with dwarf trees.
Their colors were so pale that the shadows of the little trees on the rock stood out sharper than the trees themselves.
When Thea first came, the chokecherry bushes were in blossom, and the scent of them was almost sickeningly sweet after a shower.
At the very bottom of the canyon, along the stream, there was a thread of bright, flickering, golden-green,-cottonwood seedlings.
They made a living, chattering screen behind which she took her bath every morning. Thea went down to the stream by the Indian water trail.
She had found a bathing-pool with a sand bottom, where the creek was damned by fallen trees.
The climb back was long and steep, and when she reached her little house in the cliff she always felt fresh delight in its comfort and inaccessibility.
By the time she got there, the woolly red-and-gray blankets were saturated with sunlight, and she sometimes fell asleep as soon as she stretched her body on their warm surfaces.
She used to wonder at her own inactivity.
She could lie there hour after hour in the sun and listen to the strident whir of the big locusts, and to the light, ironical laughter of the quaking asps.
All her life she had been hurrying and sputtering, as if she had been born behind time and had been trying to catch up.
Now, she reflected, as she drew herself out long upon the rugs, it was as if she were waiting for something to catch up with her.
She had got to a place where she was out of the stream of meaningless activity and undirected effort. Here she could lie for half a day undistracted, holding pleasant and incomplete conceptions in her mind-almost in her hands.
They were scarcely clear enough to be called ideas.
They had something to do with fragrance and color and sound, but almost nothing to do with words.
She was singing very little now, but a song would go through her head all morning, as a spring keeps welling up, and it was like a pleasant sensation indefinitely prolonged.
It was much more like a sensation than like an idea, or an act of remembering.
Music had never come to her in that sensuous form before.
It had always been a thing to be struggled with, had always brought anxiety and exaltation and chagrin-never content and indolence.
Thea began to wonder whether people could not utterly lose the power to work, as they can lose their voice or their memory.
She had always been a little drudge, hurrying from one task to another-as if it mattered!
And now her power to think seemed converted into a power of sustained sensation.
But the things which were for her, she saw; she experienced them physically and remembered them as if they had once been a part of herself.
These recollections were a part of her mind and personality.
In Chicago she had got almost nothing that went into her subconscious self and took root there.
But here, in Panther Canyon, there were again things which seemed destined for her. Panther Canyon was the home of innumerable swallows.
They built nests in the wall far above the hollow groove in which Thea's own rock chamber lay.
They seldom ventured above the rim of the canyon, to the flat, wind-swept tableland.
Their world was the blue air-river between the canyon walls.
In that blue gulf the arrow-shaped birds swam all day long, with only an occasional movement of the wings.
The only sad thing about them was their timidity; the way in which they lived their lives between the echoing cliffs and never dared to rise out of the shadow of the canyon walls.
A timid, nest-building folk, like the swallows.
How often Thea remembered Ray Kennedy's moralizing about the cliff cities.
He used to say that he never felt the hardness of the human struggle or the sadness of history as he felt it among those ruins.
He used to say, too, that it made one feel an obligation to do one's best.
On the first day that Thea climbed the water trail she began to have intuitions about the women who had worn the path, and who had spent so great a part of their lives going up and down it.
At the first turning of the canyon there was a half-ruined tower of yellow masonry, a watch-tower upon which the young men used to entice eagles and snare them with nets.
After supper he used to sit and smoke his pipe by the kitchen stove and talk to Thea about them.
He had never found any one before who was interested in his ruins.
Every Sunday the old man prowled about in the canyon, and he had come to know a good deal more about it than he could account for.
He had gathered up a whole chestful of Cliff-Dweller relics which he meant to take back to Germany with him some day.
He taught Thea how to find things among the ruins: grinding-stones, and drills and needles made of turkey-bones.
There were fragments of pottery everywhere.
Old Henry explained to her that the Ancient People had developed masonry and pottery far beyond any other crafts.
After they had made houses for themselves, the next thing was to house the precious water.
He explained to her how all their customs and ceremonies and their religion went back to water.
The men provided the food, but water was the care of the women.
The stupid women carried water for most of their lives; the cleverer ones made the vessels to hold it.
Their pottery was their most direct appeal to water, the envelope and sheath of the precious element itself.
That stream was the only living thing left of the drama that had been played out in the canyon centuries ago.
In the rapid, restless heart of it, flowing swifter than the rest, there was a continuity of life that reached back into the old time.
The glittering thread of current had a kind of lightly worn, loosely knit personality, graceful and laughing.
The Indian women had held it in their jars.
In the sculpture she had seen in the Art Institute, it had been caught in a flash of arrested motion.
If she took a few bits back to her own lodge and hid them under the blankets, she did it guiltily, as if she were being watched.
She was a guest in these houses, and ought to behave as such.
Nearly every afternoon she went to the chambers which contained the most interesting fragments of pottery, sat and looked at them for a while.
Some of them were beautifully decorated.
This care, expended upon vessels that could not hold food or water any better for the additional labor put upon them, made her heart go out to those ancient potters.
They had not only expressed their desire, but they had expressed it as beautifully as they could.
Food, fire, water, and something else-even here, in this crack in the world, so far back in the night of the past!
Some of the pottery was decorated in color, red and brown, black and white, in graceful geometrical patterns.
One day, on a fragment of a shallow bowl, she found a crested serpent's head, painted in red on terra-cotta.
Again she found half a bowl with a broad band of white cliff-houses painted on a black ground.
They were scarcely conventionalized at all; there they were in the black border, just as they stood in the rock before her.
It brought her centuries nearer to these people to find that they saw their houses exactly as she saw them. Yes, Ray Kennedy was right.
All these things made one feel that one ought to do one's best, and help to fulfill some desire of the dust that slept there.
A dream had been dreamed there long ago, in the night of ages, and the wind had whispered some promise to the sadness of the savage.
In their own way, those people had felt the beginnings of what was to come.
These potsherds were like fetters that bound one to a long chain of human endeavor. Not only did the world seem older and richer to Thea now, but she herself seemed older.
She had never been alone for so long before, or thought so much.
Nothing had ever engrossed her so deeply as the daily contemplation of that line of pale-yellow houses tucked into the wrinkle of the cliff.
Moonstone and Chicago had become vague.
Here everything was simple and definite, as things had been in childhood. Her mind was like a ragbag into which she had been frantically thrusting whatever she could grab.
And here she must throw this lumber away.
The things that were really hers separated themselves from the rest.
Her ideas were simplified, became sharper and clearer.
She felt united and strong. When Thea had been at the Ottenburg ranch for two months, she got a letter from Fred announcing that he "might be along at almost any time now.
The letter came at night, and the next morning she took it down into the canyon with her.
Certainly she liked Fred better than any one else in the world.
There was Harsanyi, of course-but Harsanyi was always tired.
Perhaps she would never be so happy or so good-looking again, and she would like Fred to see her, for once, at her best.
She had not been singing much, but she knew that her voice was more interesting than it had ever been before.
She had begun to understand that-with her, at least-voice was, first of all, vitality; a lightness in the body and a driving power in the blood.
If she had that, she could sing.
When she felt so keenly alive, lying on that insensible shelf of stone, when her body bounded like a rubber ball away from its hardness, then she could sing.
This, too, she could explain to Fred.
He would know what she meant. Another week passed.
A persistent affirmation-or denial-was going on in her, like the tapping of the woodpecker in the one tall pine tree across the chasm.
Musical phrases drove each other rapidly through her mind, and the song of the cicada was now too long and too sharp.
Only by the merest chance had she ever got to Panther Canyon.
There was certainly no kindly Providence that directed one's life; and one's parents did not in the least care what became of one, so long as one did not misbehave and endanger their comfort.
One's life was at the mercy of blind chance.
She had better take it in her own hands and lose everything than meekly draw the plough under the rod of parental guidance.
She had seen it when she was at home last summer,-the hostility of comfortable, self-satisfied people toward any serious effort.
Even to her father it seemed indecorous.
Whenever she spoke seriously, he looked apologetic.
Yet she had clung fast to whatever was left of Moonstone in her mind.
The Cliff-Dwellers had lengthened her past.
She had older and higher obligations. V One Sunday afternoon late in July old Henry Biltmer was rheumatically descending into the head of the canyon.
The yuccas were in blossom now.
Out of each clump of sharp bayonet leaves rose a tall stalk hung with greenish-white bells with thick, fleshy petals.
He was really very curious about the new occupants of the canyon, and what they found to do there all day long.
There on the promontory, against the cream-colored cliff, were two figures nimbly moving in the light, both slender and agile, entirely absorbed in their game.
They looked like two boys.
Both were hatless and both wore white shirts. Henry forgot his pick-axe and followed the trail before the cliff-houses toward the tower.
Behind the tower, as he well knew, were heaps of stones, large and small, piled against the face of the cliff. He had always believed that the Indian watchmen piled them there for ammunition.
Thea and Fred had come upon these missiles and were throwing them for distance.
As Biltmer approached he could hear them laughing, and he caught Thea's voice, high and excited, with a ring of vexation in it.
Fred was teaching her to throw a heavy stone like a discus.
When it was Fred's turn, he sent a triangular-shaped stone out into the air with considerable skill.
Thea watched it enviously, standing in a half-defiant posture, her sleeves rolled above her elbows and her face flushed with heat and excitement.
After Fred's third missile had rung upon the rocks below, she snatched up a stone and stepped impatiently out on the ledge in front of him.
He caught her by the elbows and pulled her back. "Not so close, you silly!
You'll spin yourself off in a minute." "You went that close.
There's your heel-mark," she retorted. "Well, I know how.
He drew a mark in the dust with his toe.
Pivot yourself on your spine, and make a half turn.
She hung expectantly in the air, forgetting to draw back her arm, her eyes following the stone as if it carried her fortunes with it.
Her comrade watched her; there weren't many girls who could show a line like that from the toe to the thigh, from the shoulder to the tip of the outstretched hand.
The stone spent itself and began to fall.
Thea drew back and struck her knee furiously with her palm. "There it goes again!
Not nearly so far as yours.
What _is_ the matter with me?
She faced the cliff and whirled again.
The stone spun out, not quite so far as before. Ottenburg laughed.
Why do you keep on working _after_ you've thrown it?
You can't help it along then." Without replying, Thea stooped and selected another stone, took a deep breath and made another turn.
Fred watched the disk, exclaiming, "Good girl!
You got past the pine that time.
That's a good throw." She took out her handkerchief and wiped her glowing face and throat, pausing to feel her right shoulder with her left hand. "Ah-ha, you've made yourself sore, haven't you?
What did I tell you? You go at things too hard.
I'll tell you what I'm going to do, Thea," Fred dusted his hands and began tucking in the blouse of his shirt, "I'm going to make some single-sticks and teach you to fence.
You'd be all right there.
You're light and quick and you've got lots of drive in you.
I'd like to have you come at me with foils; you'd look so fierce," he chuckled. She turned away from him and stubbornly sent out another stone, hanging in the air after its flight.
Her fury amused Fred, who took all games lightly and played them well.
She was breathing hard, and little beads of moisture had gathered on her upper lip.
He slipped his arm about her.
If you will look as pretty as that-" he bent his head and kissed her.
Thea was startled, gave him an angry push, drove at him with her free hand in a manner quite hostile.
Fred was on his mettle in an instant.
I should say you did deserve it!" He saw her shoulders harden.
Well, I just said I deserved it, didn't I?
What more do you want?" "I want you to tell me why you flew at me like that!
You weren't playing; you looked as if you'd like to murder me." She brushed back her hair impatiently.
I didn't mean anything, really. You interrupted me when I was watching the stone.
I can't jump from one thing to another.
I pushed you without thinking." Fred thought her back expressed contrition.
He went up to her, stood behind her with his chin above her shoulder, and said something in her ear.
Thea laughed and turned toward him.
He had not heard their conversation, but the pantomime against the rocks was clear enough.
When the two young people disappeared, their host retreated rapidly toward the head of the canyon. "I guess that young lady can take care of herself," he chuckled.
Young Fred, though, he has quite a way with them." VI Day was breaking over Panther Canyon.
The gulf was cold and full of heavy, purplish twilight.
The wood smoke which drifted from one of the cliff-houses hung in a blue scarf across the chasm, until the draft caught it and whirled it away.
Thea was crouching in the doorway of her rock house, while Ottenburg looked after the crackling fire in the next cave.
During the descent into the canyon by lantern-light, they were chilled through their coats and sweaters.
Thea had often seen the desert sunrise,-a lighthearted affair, where the sun springs out of bed and the world is golden in an instant.
But this canyon seemed to waken like an old man, with rheum and stiffness of the joints, with heaviness, and a dull, malignant mind.
In a moment the pine trees up on the edge of the rim were flashing with coppery fire.
The thin red clouds which hung above their pointed tops began to boil and move rapidly, weaving in and out like smoke.
At first the golden light seemed to hang like a wave upon the rim of the canyon; the trees and bushes up there, which one scarcely noticed at noon, stood out magnified by the slanting rays.
Long, thin streaks of light began to reach quiveringly down into the canyon.
The red sun rose rapidly above the tops of the blazing pines, and its glow burst into the gulf, about the very doorstep on which Thea sat. It bored into the wet, dark underbrush.
All the pale, dusty little herbs of the bean family, never seen by any one but a botanist, became for a moment individual and important, their silky leaves quite beautiful with dew and light.
I couldn't get a word out of you." "I know.
I was cold and hungry, and I didn't believe there was going to be any morning, anyway.
Didn't you feel queer, at all?" Fred squinted above his smoking cup.
Well, I am never strong for getting up before the sun. The world looks unfurnished.
When I first lit the fire and had a square look at you, I thought I'd got the wrong girl.
Pale, grim-you were a sight!" Thea leaned back into the shadow of the rock room and warmed her hands over the coals.
How warm these walls are, all the way round; and your breakfast is so good.
I'm all right now, Fred." "Yes, you're all right now.
Fred lit a cigarette and looked at her critically as her head emerged into the sun again.
You get up every morning just a little bit handsomer than you were the day before.
I'd love you just as much if you were not turning into one of the loveliest women I've ever seen; but you are, and that's a fact to be reckoned with.
He watched her across the thin line of smoke he blew from his lips.
What are you going to do with all that beauty and all that talent, Miss Kronborg?" She turned away to the fire again.
I don't know what you're talking about," she muttered with an awkwardness which did not conceal her pleasure. Ottenburg laughed softly.
You're a close one, but you give yourself away sometimes, like everybody else. Do you know, I've decided that you never do a single thing without an ulterior motive.
He threw away his cigarette, took out his tobacco-pouch and began to fill his pipe.
You ride and fence and walk and climb, but I know that all the while you're getting somewhere in your mind.
All these things are instruments; and I, too, am an instrument.
He looked up in time to intercept a quick, startled glance from Thea.
Oh, I don't mind," he chuckled; "not a bit.
Every woman, every interesting woman, has ulterior motives, many of 'em less creditable than yours.
It's your constancy that amuses me.
You must have been doing it ever since you were two feet high." Thea looked slowly up at her companion's good-humored face.
His eyes, sometimes too restless and sympathetic in town, had grown steadier and clearer in the open air.
His short curly beard and yellow hair had reddened in the sun and wind.
The pleasant vigor of his person was always delightful to her, something to signal to and laugh with in a world of negative people.
With Fred she was never becalmed.
There was always life in the air, always something coming and going, a rhythm of feeling and action,-stronger than the natural accord of youth.
As she looked at him, leaning against the sunny wall, she felt a desire to be frank with him.
She was not willfully holding anything back.
But, on the other hand, she could not force things that held themselves back. "Yes, it was like that when I was little," she said at last.
I had to be close, as you call it, or go under.
But I didn't know I had been like that since you came.
I've had nothing to be close about.
I haven't thought about anything but having a good time with you.
I've just drifted." Fred blew a trail of smoke out into the breeze and looked knowing. "Yes, you drift like a rifle ball, my dear.
It's your-your direction that I like best of all.
Most fellows wouldn't, you know.
I'm unusual." They both laughed, but Thea frowned questioningly.
Other fellows have liked me." "Yes, serious fellows.
You told me yourself they were all old, or solemn.
But jolly fellows want to be the whole target.
They would say you were all brain and muscle; that you have no feeling." She glanced at him sidewise.
Oh, they would, would they?" "Of course they would," Fred continued blandly.
Jolly fellows have no imagination.
They want to be the animating force.
When they are not around, they want a girl to be-extinct," he waved his hand.
Old fellows like Mr. Nathanmeyer understand your kind; but among the young ones, you are rather lucky to have found me.
Even I wasn't always so wise.
I've had my time of thinking it would not bore me to be the Apollo of a homey flat, and I've paid out a trifle to learn better.
All those things get very tedious unless they are hooked up with an idea of some sort.
It's because we _don't_ come out here only to look at each other and drink coffee that it's so pleasant to-look at each other." Fred drew on his pipe for a while, studying Thea's abstraction.
She was staring up at the far wall of the canyon with a troubled expression that drew her eyes narrow and her mouth hard.
Her hands lay in her lap, one over the other, the fingers interlacing.
Would it look attractive to you?" Thea sat up straight and stared at him in alarm, glared into his eyes. "Perfectly hideous!" she exclaimed. Fred dropped back against the old stonework and laughed deep in his chest.
You're not a nest-building bird.
You know I always liked your song, 'Me for the jolt of the breakers!
I understand." She rose impatiently and walked to the edge of the cliff.
It's not that so much.
It's waking up every morning with the feeling that your life is your own, and your strength is your own, and your talent is your own; that you're all there, and there's no sag in you.
She stood for a moment as if she were tortured by uncertainty, then turned suddenly back to him.
Don't talk about these things any more now," she entreated.
It isn't that I want to keep anything from you.
The trouble is that I've got nothing to keep-except (you know as well as I) that feeling.
I told you about it in Chicago once.
But it always makes me unhappy to talk about it.
It will spoil the day.
Will you go for a climb with me?
A word's enough to me.
But I love it, all the same.
He pressed her hands and dropped them.
Now, where are you going to drag me?" "I want you to drag me.
Over there, to the other houses.
They are more interesting than these.
She pointed across the gorge to the row of white houses in the other cliff.
The trail is broken away, but I got up there once.
You have to go to the bottom of the canyon, cross the creek, and then go up hand-over-hand." Ottenburg, lounging against the sunny wall, his hands in the pockets of his jacket, looked across at the distant dwellings.
It's an awful climb," he sighed, "when I could be perfectly happy here with my pipe. However-" He took up his stick and hat and followed Thea down the water trail.
Do you climb this path every day?
You surely earn your bath.
I went down and had a look at your pool the other afternoon.
Neat place, with all those little cottonwoods.
Must be very becoming." "Think so?
Thea said over her shoulder, as she swung round a turn. "Yes, and so do you, evidently.
I'm becoming expert at reading your meaning in your back.
I'm behind you so much on these single-foot trails.
You don't wear stays, do you?" "Not here." "I wouldn't, anywhere, if I were you.
They will make you less elastic. The side muscles get flabby.
If you go in for opera, there's a fortune in a flexible body.
Oh, I'll never get fat! That I can promise you." Fred smiled, looking after her.
Keep that promise, no matter how many others you break," he drawled. The upward climb, after they had crossed the stream, was at first a breathless scramble through underbrush.
When they reached the big boulders, Ottenburg went first because he had the longer leg-reach, and gave Thea a hand when the step was quite beyond her, swinging her up until she could get a foothold.
It's a good thing to know when to stop, Thea," he said meaningly. "I'm not going to stop now until I get there," Thea insisted.
I'll go on alone." Fred settled his shoulder against the tree-trunk.
Go on if you like, but I'm here to enjoy myself.
If you meet a rattler on the way, have it out with him." She hesitated, fanning herself with her felt hat.
I never have met one." "There's reasoning for you," Fred murmured languidly. Thea turned away resolutely and began to go up the wall, using an irregular cleft in the rock for a path.
The cliff, which looked almost perpendicular from the bottom, was really made up of ledges and boulders, and behind these she soon disappeared.
For a long while Fred smoked with half-closed eyes, smiling to himself now and again. Occasionally he lifted an eyebrow as he heard the rattle of small stones among the rocks above.
In a temper," he concluded; "do her good.
Looking up, he saw Thea standing on the edge of a projecting crag.
Thea was one of those people who emerge, unexpectedly, larger than we are accustomed to see them.
Even at this distance one got the impression of muscular energy and audacity,-a kind of brilliancy of motion,-of a personality that carried across big spaces and expanded among big things.
Lying still, with his hands under his head, Ottenburg rhetorically addressed the figure in the air.
You are the sort that used to run wild in Germany, dressed in their hair and a piece of skin.
Soldiers caught 'em in nets.
Old Nathanmeyer," he mused, "would like a peep at her now.
Always buying those Zorn etchings of peasant girls bathing.
No sag in them either. Must be the cold climate.
She'll begin to pitch rocks on me if I don't move.
In response to another impatient gesture from the crag, he rose and began swinging slowly up the trail. It was the afternoon of that long day.
Thea was lying on a blanket in the door of her rock house.
She and Ottenburg had come back from their climb and had lunch, and he had gone off for a nap in one of the cliff-houses farther down the path.
He was sleeping peacefully, his coat under his head and his face turned toward the wall. Thea, too, was drowsy, and lay looking through halfclosed eyes up at the blazing blue arch over the rim of the canyon.
She was thinking of nothing at all.
Her mind, like her body, was full of warmth, lassitude, physical content.
Suddenly an eagle, tawny and of great size, sailed over the cleft in which she lay, across the arch of sky.
He dropped for a moment into the gulf between the walls, then wheeled, and mounted until his plumage was so steeped in light that he looked like a golden bird.
He swept on, following the course of the canyon a little way and then disappearing beyond the rim.
Thea sprang to her feet as if she had been thrown up from the rock by volcanic action.
She stood rigid on the edge of the stone shelf, straining her eyes after that strong, tawny flight.
Endeavor, achievement, desire, glorious striving of human art!
From a cleft in the heart of the world she saluted it...It had come all the way; when men lived in caves, it was there.
Thea had never felt this pleasant excitement about any man before, and she found herself trying very hard to please young Ottenburg.
She was never tired, never dull.
The day was already hot and there was no breeze.
The sun was shining, but heavy brown clouds were hanging in the west, like the smoke of a forest fire. She and Fred had meant to ride to Flagstaff that morning, but Biltmer advised against it, foretelling a storm.
After breakfast they lingered about the house, waiting for the weather to make up its mind.
Fred had brought his guitar, and as they had the dining-room to themselves, he made Thea go over some songs with him.
They got interested and kept it up until Mrs. Biltmer came to set the table for dinner.
Ottenburg knew some of the Mexican things Spanish Johnny used to sing.
Fred carried a slicker and a sweater, and he made Thea wear one of the rubber hats that hung in Biltmer's gun-room.
As they crossed the pasture land the clumsy slicker kept catching in the lacings of his leggings. "Why don't you drop that thing?
I won't mind a shower. I've been wet before." "No use taking chances." From the canyon they were unable to watch the sky, since only a strip of the zenith was visible.
We're in for it, Thea. Better make for your cave where there are blankets.
He caught her elbow and hurried her along the path before the cliff-houses.
They made the half-mile at a quick trot, and as they ran the rocks and the sky and the air between the cliffs turned a turbid green, like the color in a moss agate.
When they reached the blanketed rock room, they looked at each other and laughed.
Their faces had taken on a greenish pallor. Thea's hair, even, was green. "Dark as pitch in here," Fred exclaimed as they hurried over the old rock doorstep.
The rocks hold the heat.
It's going to be terribly cold outside, all right.
He was interrupted by a deafening peal of thunder.
It's worth watching out there.
We needn't come in yet." The green light grew murkier and murkier.
The smaller vegetation was blotted out.
The swallows flew up with sharp, terrified twitterings. Even the quaking asps were still.
While Fred and Thea watched from the doorway, the light changed to purple.
Clouds of dark vapor, like chlorine gas, began to float down from the head of the canyon and hung between them and the cliff-houses in the opposite wall.
Before they knew it, the wall itself had disappeared.
The air was positively venomous-looking, and grew colder every minute.
The thunder seemed to crash against one cliff, then against the other, and to go shrieking off into the inner canyon. The moment the rain broke, it beat the vapors down.
In the gulf before them the water fell in spouts, and dashed from the high cliffs overhead.
It tore aspens and chokecherry bushes out of the ground and left the yuccas hanging by their tough roots.
Only the little cedars stood black and unmoved in the torrents that fell from so far above. The rock chamber was full of fine spray from the streams of water that shot over the doorway.
Thea crept to the back wall and rolled herself in a blanket, and Fred threw the heavier blankets over her.
The wool of the Navajo sheep was soon kindled by the warmth of her body, and was impenetrable to dampness.
Her hair, where it hung below the rubber hat, gathered the moisture like a sponge.
Fred put on the slicker, tied the sweater about his neck, and settled himself cross-legged beside her. The chamber was so dark that, although he could see the outline of her head and shoulders, he could not see her face.
He struck a wax match to light his pipe.
As he sheltered it between his hands, it sizzled and sputtered, throwing a yellow flicker over Thea and her blankets. "You look like a gypsy," he said as he dropped the match.
Any one you'd rather be shut up with than me?
Sure about that?" "I think I am. Aren't you cold?" "Not especially.
Fred smoked in silence, listening to the roar of the water outside.
We may not get away from here right away," he remarked. "I shan't mind.
Shall you?" He laughed grimly and pulled on his pipe.
Do you know where you're at, Miss Thea Kronborg?" he said at last.
You've got me going pretty hard, I suppose you know.
I've had a lot of sweethearts, but I've never been so much-engrossed before.
What are you going to do about it?
He heard nothing from the blankets.
Are you going to play fair, or is it about my cue to cut away?" "I'll play fair.
I don't see why you want to go." "What do you want me around for?-to play with?" Thea struggled up among the blankets.
I want you for everything.
I don't know whether I'm what people call in love with you or not.
In Moonstone that meant sitting in a hammock with somebody.
I don't want to sit in a hammock with you, but I want to do almost everything else. Oh, hundreds of things!" "If I run away, will you go with me?" "I don't know.
I'll have to think about that.
She freed herself from her wrappings and stood up.
It's not raining so hard now. Hadn't we better start this minute?
It will be night before we get to Biltmer's." Fred struck another match.
I don't know how much of the path may be washed away.
I don't even know whether I ought to let you try it without a lantern." Thea went to the doorway and looked out.
There's nothing else to do. The sweater and the slicker will keep me dry, and this will be my chance to find out whether these shoes are really water-tight.
They cost a week's salary.
She retreated to the back of the cave.
It's getting blacker every minute." Ottenburg took a brandy flask from his coat pocket.
Better have some of this before we start.
Can you take it without water?" Thea lifted it obediently to her lips.
She put on the sweater and Fred helped her to get the clumsy slicker on over it.
He buttoned it and fastened the high collar.
She could feel that his hands were hurried and clumsy.
The coat was too big, and he took off his necktie and belted it in at the waist.
You know how to handle me, don't you?" she whispered.
For the first time, she kissed him without constraint or embarrassment. "Thea, Thea, Thea!
Fred whispered her name three times, shaking her a little as if to waken her.
It was too dark to see, but he could feel that she was smiling. When she kissed him she had not hidden her face on his shoulder,-she had risen a little on her toes, and stood straight and free.
In that moment when he came close to her actual personality, he felt in her the same expansion that he had noticed at Mrs. Nathanmeyer's.
She became freer and stronger under impulses.
Now for it, Fred," she called back exultantly.
The rain was pouring steadily down through the dying gray twilight, and muddy streams were spouting and foaming over the cliff. Fred caught her and held her back.
I don't know about the path.
It may be gone altogether.
Can't tell what there is under this water." But the path was older than the white man's Arizona.
The rush of water had washed away the dust and stones that lay on the surface, but the rock skeleton of the Indian trail was there, ready for the foot.
By wading and slipping and climbing, they got along.
As they neared the head of the canyon, where the path lifted and rose in steep loops to the surface of the plateau, the climb was more difficult.
The earth above had broken away and washed down over the trail, bringing rocks and bushes and even young trees with it.
The last ghost of daylight was dying and there was no time to lose.
The canyon behind them was already black. "We've got to go right through the top of this pine tree, Thea.
No time to hunt a way around.
After they had crashed through the mass of branches, Fred stopped abruptly.
Wait a minute." He cleared the washout, slipped on the wet rock at the farther side, and caught himself just in time to escape a tumble.
If I could only find something to hold to, I could give you a hand.
It's so cursed dark, and there are no trees here where they're needed.
Here's something; it's a root.
It will hold all right.
He braced himself on the rock, gripped the crooked root with one hand and swung himself across toward Thea, holding out his arm.
I must say you don't lose your nerve in a tight place.
Can you keep at it a little longer?
Have to make that next ledge.
Put your foot on my knee and catch something to pull by." Thea went up over his shoulder.
It's hard ground up here," she panted. "Did I wrench your arm when I slipped then?
It was a cactus I grabbed, and it startled me." "Now, one more pull and we're on the level." They emerged gasping upon the black plateau.
In the last five minutes the darkness had solidified and it seemed as if the skies were pouring black water.
They kept laughing as they stumbled over tufts of grass or stepped into slippery pools.
They were delighted with each other and with the adventure which lay behind them. "I can't even see the whites of your eyes, Thea.
But I'd know who was here stepping out with me, anywhere.
Part coyote you are, by the feel of you.
When you make up your mind to jump, you jump!
My gracious, what's the matter with your hand?" "Cactus spines.
Didn't I tell you when I grabbed the cactus?
I thought it was a root.
Are we going straight?" "I don't know.
Somewhere near it, I think.
I'm very comfortable, aren't you?
You're warm, except your cheeks.
How funny they are when they're wet.
Still, you always feel like you.
I could walk to Flagstaff.
It's fun, not being able to see anything.
I feel surer of you when I can't see you.
Will you run away with me?" Thea laughed.
I won't run far to-night.
Look, Fred, there's somebody coming." "Henry, with his lantern.
Fred shouted. The moving light bobbed toward them.
As the bright morning advanced, they sat alone on the rear platform of the observation car, watching the yellow miles unfold and disappear.
With complete content they saw the brilliant, empty country flash by.
They were tired of the desert and the dead races, of a world without change or ideas.
Where else would we be going?
Thea hunted for a handkerchief in her handbag. "I wasn't sure, so I had the trunks checked to Albuquerque.
We can recheck there to Chicago, if you like.
You'll never go back to Bowers.
Why wouldn't this be a good time to make a run for it? We could take the southern branch at Albuquerque, down to El Paso, and then over into Mexico.
Nobody waiting for us anywhere." Thea sighted along the steel rails that quivered in the light behind them.
I don't see why I couldn't marry you in Chicago, as well as any place," she brought out with some embarrassment. Fred took the handbag out of her nervous clasp and swung it about on his finger.
You've no particular love for that spot, have you? Besides, as I've told you, my family would make a row.
They are an excitable lot.
They discuss and argue everlastingly.
The only way I can ever put anything through is to go ahead, and convince them afterward." "Yes; I understand.
I don't want to marry your family.
I'm sure you wouldn't want to marry mine.
But I don't see why we have to go so far." "When we get to Winslow, you look about the freight yards and you'll probably see several yellow cars with my name on them.
When your visiting-card is on every beer bottle, you can't do things quietly.
Things get into the papers.
As he watched her troubled expression, he grew anxious.
He leaned forward on his camp-chair, and kept twirling the handbag between his knees.
Here's a suggestion, Thea," he said presently.
Dismiss it if you don't like it: suppose we go down to Mexico on the chance.
You've never seen anything like Mexico City; it will be a lark for you, anyhow.
If you change your mind, and don't want to marry me, you can go back to Chicago, and I'll take a steamer from Vera Cruz and go up to New York.
When I get to Chicago, you'll be at work, and nobody will ever be the wiser.
No reason why we shouldn't both travel in Mexico, is there?
You'll be traveling alone. I'll merely tell you the right places to stop, and come to take you driving.
I won't put any pressure on you.
He swung the bag toward her and looked up under her hat. "No, you haven't," she murmured.
She was thinking that her own position might be less difficult if he had used what he called pressure.
He clearly wished her to take the responsibility. "You have your own future in the back of your mind all the time," Fred began, "and I have it in mine.
I'm not going to try to carry you off, as I might another girl.
If you wanted to quit me, I couldn't hold you, no matter how many times you had married me.
I don't want to overpersuade you.
But I'd like mighty well to get you down to that jolly old city, where everything would please you, and give myself a chance.
Then, if you thought you could have a better time with me than without me, I'd try to grab you before you changed your mind.
You are not a sentimental person." Thea drew her veil down over her face.
I think I am, a little; about you," she said quietly.
Fred's irony somehow hurt her. "What's at the bottom of your mind, Thea?" he asked hurriedly.
Why do you consider it at all, if you're not sure?
Why are you here with me now?" Her face was half-averted.
He was thinking that it looked older and more firm-almost hard-under a veil. "Isn't it possible to do things without having any very clear reason?" she asked slowly.
I have no plan in the back of my mind.
Now that I'm with you, I want to be with you; that's all.
I can't settle down to being alone again.
I am here to-day because I want to be with you to-day.
One thing, though; if I gave you my word, I'd keep it.
And you could hold me, though you don't seem to think so. Maybe I'm not sentimental, but I'm not very light, either.
If I went off with you like this, it wouldn't be to amuse myself." Ottenburg's eyes fell.
His lips worked nervously for a moment.
Do you mean that you really care for me, Thea Kronborg?" he asked unsteadily. "I guess so.
It takes hold of you and you've got to go through with it, even if you're afraid.
I was afraid to leave Moonstone, and afraid to leave Harsanyi.
But I had to go through with it." "And are you afraid now?
Fred asked slowly. "Yes; more than I've ever been.
But I don't think I could go back.
The past closes up behind one, somehow.
One would rather have a new kind of misery.
The old kind seems like death or unconsciousness.
You can't force your life back into that mould again.
No, one can't go back.
She rose and stood by the back grating of the platform, her hand on the brass rail. Fred went to her side.
She pushed up her veil and turned her most glowing face to him.
Her eyes were wet and there were tears on her lashes, but she was smiling the rare, whole-hearted smile he had seen once or twice before.
He looked at her shining eyes, her parted lips, her chin a little lifted.
It was as if they were colored by a sunrise he could not see.
He put his hand over hers and clasped it with a strength she felt.
Her eyelashes trembled, her mouth softened, but her eyes were still brilliant. "Will you always be like you were down there, if I go with you?" she asked under her breath. His fingers tightened on hers.
By God, I will!" he muttered. "That's the only promise I'll ask you for.
Now go away for a while and let me think about it.
Come back at lunchtime and I'll tell you.
Will that do?" "Anything will do, Thea, if you'll only let me keep an eye on you.
The rest of the world doesn't interest me much.
You've got me in deep." Fred dropped her hand and turned away.
As he glanced back from the front end of the observation car, he saw that she was still standing there, and any one would have known that she was brooding over something.
The earnestness of her head and shoulders had a certain nobility.
He stood looking at her for a moment. When he reached the forward smoking-car, Fred took a seat at the end, where he could shut the other passengers from his sight.
He put on his traveling-cap and sat down wearily, keeping his head near the window. "In any case, I shall help her more than I shall hurt her," he kept saying to himself.
He admitted that this was not the only motive which impelled him, but it was one of them.
I'll make it my business in life to get her on.
There's nothing else I care about so much as seeing her have her chance.
She hasn't touched her real force yet.
She isn't even aware of it.
Lord, don't I know something about them?
There isn't one of them that has such a depth to draw from.
She'll be one of the great artists of our time.
Playing accompaniments for that cheese-faced sneak!
I'll get her off to Germany this winter, or take her.
She hasn't got any time to waste now.
Mrs. Frederick Ottenburg lived in California, at Santa Barbara, where her health was supposed to be better than elsewhere, and her husband lived in Chicago.
She would be at the Holland House, with her aunt and a girl from Kansas City who was to be a bridesmaid, for two weeks or more.
If Ottenburg happened to be going down to New York, would he call upon Miss Beers and "show her a good time"? Fred did happen to be going to New York.
He was going down from New Haven, after the Thanksgiving game.
He called on Miss Beers and found her, as he that night telegraphed Brisbane, a "ripping beauty, no mistake.
He took her and her aunt and her uninteresting friend to the theater and to the opera, and he asked them to lunch with him at the Waldorf.
He took no little pains in arranging the luncheon with the head waiter.
Miss Beers was the sort of girl with whom a young man liked to seem experienced.
She was dark and slender and fiery.
She was witty and slangy; said daring things and carried them off with _nonchalance_.
Her childish extravagance and contempt for all the serious facts of life could be charged to her father's generosity and his long packing-house purse.
Freaks that would have been vulgar and ostentatious in a more simpleminded girl, in Miss Beers seemed whimsical and picturesque.
She darted about in magnificent furs and pumps and close-clinging gowns, though that was the day of full skirts. Her hats were large and floppy.
When she wriggled out of her moleskin coat at luncheon, she looked like a slim black weasel.
Her satin dress was a mere sheath, so conspicuous by its severity and scantness that every one in the dining-room stared.
She ate nothing but alligator-pear salad and hothouse grapes, drank a little champagne, and took cognac in her coffee.
She ridiculed, in the raciest slang, the singers they had heard at the opera the night before, and when her aunt pretended to reprove her, she murmured indifferently, "What's the matter with you, old sport?
She rattled on with a subdued loquaciousness, always keeping her voice low and monotonous, always looking out of the corner of her eye and speaking, as it were, in asides, out of the corner of her mouth.
She was scornful of everything,-which became her eyebrows. Her face was mobile and discontented, her eyes quick and black.
There was a sort of smouldering fire about her, young Ottenburg thought.
She entertained him prodigiously. After luncheon Miss Beers said she was going uptown to be fitted, and that she would go alone because her aunt made her nervous.
When Fred held her coat for her, she murmured, "Thank you, Alphonse," as if she were addressing the waiter.
As she stepped into a hansom, with a long stretch of thin silk stocking, she said negligently, over her fur collar, "Better let me take you along and drop you somewhere.
He sprang in after her, and she told the driver to go to the Park. It was a bright winter day, and bitterly cold.
Miss Beers asked Fred to tell her about the game at New Haven, and when he did so paid no attention to what he said.
She sank back into the hansom and held her muff before her face, lowering it occasionally to utter laconic remarks about the people in the carriages they passed, interrupting Fred's narrative in a disconcerting manner.
She had thought she was "perfectly cracked" about Brisbane, until she met Fred at the Holland House three days ago.
Then she knew she would scratch Brisbane's eyes out if she married him.
What was she going to do? Fred told the driver to keep going.
What did she want to do?
One had to marry somebody, after all the machinery had been put in motion.
Perhaps she might as well scratch Brisbane as anybody else; for scratch she would, if she didn't get what she wanted. Of course, Fred agreed, one had to marry somebody.
And certainly this girl beat anything he had ever been up against before.
Again he told the driver to go ahead.
Did she mean that she would think of marrying him, by any chance?
Of course she did, Alphonse.
Hadn't he seen that all over her face three days ago?
If he hadn't, he was a snowball. By this time Fred was beginning to feel sorry for the driver.
Miss Beers, however, was compassionless.
After a few more turns, Fred suggested tea at the Casino.
He was very cold himself, and remembering the shining silk hose and pumps, he wondered that the girl was not frozen.
Miss Beers had with her plenty of money, destined for tradesmen, which she was quite willing to divert into other channels-the first excitement of buying a trousseau had worn off, anyway.
It was very much like any other shopping.
Fred had his allowance and a few hundred he had won on the game.
She would meet him to-morrow morning at the Jersey ferry.
They were jerked about in the cab for another hour through the deserted Park.
The bride's family were rather pleased with her originality; besides, any one of the Ottenburg boys was clearly a better match than young Brisbane.
Her sons had always been clay in her hands, and now the _geliebter Sohn_ had escaped her. Beers, the packer, gave his daughter a house in St. Louis, and Fred went into his father's business.
At the end of a year, he was mutely appealing to his mother for sympathy.
At the end of two, he was drinking and in open rebellion.
He had learned to detest his wife.
Her wastefulness and cruelty revolted him.
The ignorance and the fatuous conceit which lay behind her grimacing mask of slang and ridicule humiliated him so deeply that he became absolutely reckless.
Her grace was only an uneasy wriggle, her audacity was the result of insolence and envy, and her wit was restless spite.
As her personal mannerisms grew more and more odious to him, he began to dull his perceptions with champagne.
He had it for tea, he drank it with dinner, and during the evening he took enough to insure that he would be well insulated when he got home.
This behavior spread alarm among his friends.
It was scandalous, and it did not occur among brewers.
He was violating the _noblesse oblige_ of his guild.
He didn't want anything but the shirt on his back and clean salt air.
All the Ottenburgs and all the Beers, and many of their friends, were drawn into the quarrel.
It was to public opinion, however and not to his mother's activities, that Fred owed his partial escape from bondage.
The cosmopolitan brewing world of St. Louis had conservative standards.
The Ottenburgs' friends were not predisposed in favor of the plunging Kansas City set, and they disliked young Fred's wife from the day that she was brought among them.
They found her ignorant and ill-bred and insufferably impertinent.
When they became aware of how matters were going between her and Fred, they omitted no opportunity to snub her.
Young Fred had always been popular, and St. Louis people took up his cause with warmth.
Even the younger men, among whom Mrs. Fred tried to draft a following, at first avoided and then ignored her.
Her defeat was so conspicuous, her life became such a desert, that she at last consented to accept the house in Santa Barbara which Mrs. Otto Ottenburg had long owned and cherished.
This villa, with its luxuriant gardens, was the price of Fred's furlough. His mother was only too glad to offer it in his behalf.
As soon as his wife was established in California, Fred was transferred from St. Louis to Chicago. A divorce was the one thing Edith would never, never, give him.
She told him so, and she told his family so, and her father stood behind her.
She would enter into no arrangement that might eventually lead to divorce.
In her behavior with other men she was discreet. After Fred went to Chicago, his mother visited him often, and dropped a word to her old friends there, who were already kindly disposed toward the young man.
Among artists his position was not irregular, because with them his marriageableness was not an issue.
She impressed him as equipped to be an artist, and to be nothing else; already directed, concentrated, formed as to mental habit.
He was generous and sympathetic, and she was lonely and needed friendship; needed cheerfulness.
She had not much power of reaching out toward useful people or useful experiences, did not see opportunities.
She had no tact about going after good positions or enlisting the interest of influential persons.
She antagonized people rather than conciliated them.
He discovered at once that she had a merry side, a robust humor that was deep and hearty, like her laugh, but it slept most of the time under her own doubts and the dullness of her life.
She had not what is called a "sense of humor.
That is, she had no intellectual humor; no power to enjoy the absurdities of people, no relish of their pretentiousness and inconsistencies-which only depressed her.
But her joviality, Fred felt, was an asset, and ought to be developed.
He discovered that she was more receptive and more effective under a pleasant stimulus than she was under the gray grind which she considered her salvation.
She was still Methodist enough to believe that if a thing were hard and irksome, it must be good for her.
And yet, whatever she did well was spontaneous.
He believed that he knew a great deal more about her possibilities than Bowers knew, and he liked to think that he had given her a stronger hold on life.
She had never seen herself or known herself as she did at Mrs. Nathanmeyer's musical evenings.
She had been a different girl ever since.
He had not anticipated that she would grow more fond of him than his immediate usefulness warranted.
He thought he knew the ways of artists, and, as he said, she must have been "at it from her cradle.
He had imagined, perhaps, but never really believed, that he would find her waiting for him sometime as he found her waiting on the day he reached the Biltmer ranch.
Once he found her so-well, he did not pretend to be anything more or less than a reasonably well-intentioned young man.
A lovesick girl or a flirtatious woman he could have handled easily enough.
But a personality like that, unconsciously revealing itself for the first time under the exaltation of a personal feeling,-what could one do but watch it?
As he used to say to himself, in reckless moments back there in the canyon, "You can't put out a sunrise.
He had to watch it, and then he had to share it. Besides, was he really going to do her any harm?
The Lord knew he would marry her if he could!
Marriage would be an incident, not an end with her; he was sure of that.
He meant to help her, and he could not think of another man who would.
He went over his unmarried friends, East and West, and he could not think of one who would know what she was driving at-or care.
The clever ones were selfish, the kindly ones were stupid. "Damn it, if she's going to fall in love with somebody, it had better be me than any of the others-of the sort she'd find.
Get her tied up with some conceited ass who'd try to make her over, train her like a puppy!
At least, I understand her.
They seemed to him, for the most part, to lie between windowless stone walls, and their rectitude had been achieved at the expense of light and air.
In their unquestioned regularity lurked every sort of human cruelty and meanness, and every kind of humiliation and suffering.
He would rather have any woman he cared for wounded than crushed.
Things have closed behind me.
I can't go back, so I am going on-to Mexico?
She lifted her face with an eager, questioning smile. Fred met it with a sinking heart.
Had he really hoped she would give him another answer?
He would have given pretty much anything-But there, that did no good.
He could give only what he had.
Things were never complete in this world; you had to snatch at them as they came or go without.
Nobody could look into her face and draw back, nobody who had any courage.
She had courage enough for anything-look at her mouth and chin and eyes!
Where did it come from, that light?
How could a face, a familiar face, become so the picture of hope, be painted with the very colors of youth's exaltation?
She was right; she was not one of those who draw back.
Some people get on by avoiding dangers, others by riding through them. They stood by the railing looking back at the sand levels, both feeling that the train was steaming ahead very fast.
Fred's mind was a confusion of images and ideas.
Only two things were clear to him: the force of her determination, and the belief that, handicapped as he was, he could do better by her than another man would do.
It was not absolutely necessary for him to come, but he had no very pressing cases at home. Winter was closing down in Moonstone, and he dreaded the dullness of it.
On the 10th day of January, therefore, he was registered at the Brown Palace Hotel.
On the morning of the 11th he came down to breakfast to find the streets white and the air thick with snow.
A wild northwester was blowing down from the mountains, one of those beautiful storms that wrap Denver in dry, furry snow, and make the city a loadstone to thousands of men in the mountains and on the plains.
He felt as cheerful as if he had received a legacy that morning, and he greeted the clerk with even greater friendliness than usual when he stopped at the desk for his mail.
In the dining-room he found several old friends seated here and there before substantial breakfasts: cattlemen and mining engineers from odd corners of the State, all looking fresh and well pleased with themselves.
He had a word with one and another before he sat down at the little table by a window, where the Austrian head waiter stood attentively behind a chair.
After his breakfast was put before him, the doctor began to run over his letters.
There was one directed in Thea Kronborg's handwriting, forwarded from Moonstone.
He saw with astonishment, as he put another lump of sugar into his cup, that this letter bore a New York postmark.
He had known that Thea was in Mexico, traveling with some Chicago people, but New York, to a Denver man, seems much farther away than Mexico City.
He put the letter behind his plate, upright against the stem of his water goblet, and looked at it thoughtfully while he drank his second cup of coffee.
He had been a little anxious about Thea; she had not written to him for a long while. As he never got good coffee at home, the doctor always drank three cups for breakfast when he was in Denver.
Oscar knew just when to bring him a second pot, fresh and smoking.
And more cream, Oscar, please.
You know I like lots of cream," the doctor murmured, as he opened the square envelope, marked in the upper right-hand corner, "Everett House, Union Square.
The text of the letter was as follows:- DEAR DOCTOR ARCHIE:- I have not written to you for a long time, but it has not been unintentional.
I could not write you frankly, and so I would not write at all.
I can be frank with you now, but not by letter.
It is a great deal to ask, but I wonder if you could come to New York to help me out?
I have got into difficulties, and I need your advice. I need your friendship.
I am afraid I must even ask you to lend me money, if you can without serious inconvenience.
I have to go to Germany to study, and it can't be put off any longer.
Needless to say, I don't want any word of this to reach my family.
They are the last people I would turn to, though I love my mother dearly.
If you can come, please telegraph me at this hotel. Don't despair of me.
At last Oscar came out, as if the idea had just struck him, "Matches, sir?" "Yes, thank you.
The doctor slipped a coin into his palm and rose, crumpling Thea's letter in his hand and thrusting the others into his pocket unopened.
He went back to the desk in the lobby and beckoned to the clerk, upon whose kindness he threw himself apologetically. "Harry, I've got to pull out unexpectedly.
Call up the Burlington, will you, and ask them to route me to New York the quickest way, and to let us know.
Ask for the hour I'll get in. I have to wire." "Certainly, Dr. Archie.
Have it for you in a minute.
The young man's pallid, clean-scraped face was all sympathetic interest as he reached for the telephone.
Dr. Archie put out his hand and stopped him. "Wait a minute.
Tell me, first, is Captain Harris down yet?" "No, sir.
The Captain hasn't come down yet this morning." "I'll wait here for him.
If I don't happen to catch him, nail him and get me.
Thank you, Harry." The doctor spoke gratefully and turned away.
He began to pace the lobby, his hands behind him, watching the bronze elevator doors like a hawk.
At last Captain Harris issued from one of them, tall and imposing, wearing a Stetson and fierce mustaches, a fur coat on his arm, a solitaire glittering upon his little finger and another in his black satin ascot.
He was one of the grand old bluffers of those good old days.
Must see you a minute, Captain.
Want to sell you some shares in the San Felipe.
Bad time to sell, doctor.
You want to hold on to San Felipe, and buy more.
What have you got to raise?" "Oh, not a great sum.
I've been buying up close and have run short." "I see, I see.
Well, doctor, you'll have to let me get through that door.
I was out last night, and I'm going to get my bacon, if you lose your mine.
He clapped Archie on the shoulder and pushed him along in front of him.
Come ahead with me, and we'll talk business." Dr. Archie attended the Captain and waited while he gave his order, taking the seat the old promoter indicated. "Now, sir," the Captain turned to him, "you don't want to sell anything.
You must be under the impression that I'm one of these damned New England sharks that get their pound of flesh off the widow and orphan.
If you're a little short, sign a note and I'll write a check. That's the way gentlemen do business.
He wrote a few words in one book and Archie wrote a few in the other.
Then they each tore across perforations and exchanged slips of paper. "That's the way.
Saves office rent," the Captain commented with satisfaction, returning the books to his pocket.
And now, Archie, where are you off to?" "Got to go East to-night.
A deal waiting for me in New York.
Dr. Archie rose. The Captain's face brightened as he saw Oscar approaching with a tray, and he began tucking the corner of his napkin inside his collar, over his ascot.
Don't let them unload anything on you back there, doctor," he said genially, "and don't let them relieve you of anything, either. Don't let them get any Cripple stuff off you.
Thank you. ARCHIE He stood and heard the message actually clicked off on the wire, with the feeling that she was hearing the click at the other end.
Then he sat down in the lobby and wrote a note to his wife and one to the other doctor in Moonstone.
When he at last issued out into the storm, it was with a feeling of elation rather than of anxiety.
Whatever was wrong, he could make it right.
He had never been in New York, never been farther east than Buffalo.
That's rather a shame," he reflected boyishly as he put the long tickets in his pocket, "for a man nearly forty years old.
However, he thought as he walked up toward the club, he was on the whole glad that his first trip had a human interest, that he was going for something, and because he was wanted. He loved holidays.
He felt as if he were going to Germany himself. "Queer,"-he went over it with the snow blowing in his face,-"but that sort of thing is more interesting than mines and making your daily bread.
It's worth paying out to be in on it,-for a fellow like me.
Probably he had better get a new overcoat, and he was not sure about the shape of his collars.
I don't want to look different to her from everybody else there," he mused.
His attitude was one of deep dejection, and his face, though it had the cool, unimpeachable fairness possible only to a very blond young man, was by no means happy.
The page knocked at the door of Thea's sitting-room, and then wandered away.
Thea came to the door with a telegram in her hand.
She asked Ottenburg to come in and pointed to one of the clumsy, sullen-looking chairs that were as thick as they were high.
The room was brown with time, dark in spite of two windows that opened on Union Square, with dull curtains and carpet, and heavy, respectable-looking furniture in somber colors.
The place was saved from utter dismalness by a coal fire under the black marble mantelpiece,-brilliantly reflected in a long mirror that hung between the two windows.
This was the first time Fred had seen the room, and he took it in quickly, as he put down his hat and gloves. Thea seated herself at the walnut writing-desk, still holding the slip of yellow paper.
Dr. Archie is coming," she said.
He will be here Friday morning." "Well, that's good, at any rate," her visitor replied with a determined effort at cheerfulness.
Then, turning to the fire, he added blankly, "If you want him." "Of course I want him.
I would never have asked such a thing of him if I hadn't wanted him a great deal.
It's a very expensive trip.
Then she went on, in a milder tone.
He doesn't say anything about the money, but I think his coming means that he can let me have it." Fred was standing before the mantel, rubbing his hands together nervously.
You are still determined to call on him?
He sat down tentatively in the chair Thea had indicated.
I don't see why you won't borrow from me, and let him sign with you, for instance.
That would constitute a perfectly regular business transaction.
I could bring suit against either of you for my money." Thea turned toward him from the desk.
We won't take that up again, Fred.
I should have a different feeling about it if I went on your money.
In a way I shall feel freer on Dr. Archie's, and in another way I shall feel more bound.
I shall try even harder.
He is almost like my father," she added irrelevantly. "Still, he isn't, you know," Fred persisted.
It wouldn't be anything new.
I've loaned money to students before, and got it back, too." "Yes; I know you're generous," Thea hurried over it, "but this will be the best way.
He will be here on Friday did I tell you?" "I think you mentioned it.
May I smoke?" he took out a small cigarette case.
I suppose you'll be off next week?" he asked as he struck a match. "Just as soon as I can," she replied with a restless movement of her arms, as if her dark-blue dress were too tight for her.
It seems as if I'd been here forever." "And yet," the young man mused, "we got in only four days ago.
Facts really don't count for much, do they?
It's all in the way people feel: even in little things." Thea winced, but she did not answer him.
She put the telegram back in its envelope and placed it carefully in one of the pigeonholes of the desk. "I suppose," Fred brought out with effort, "that your friend is in your confidence?" "He always has been.
I shall have to tell him about myself.
I wish I could without dragging you in." Fred shook himself.
Don't bother about where you drag me, please," he put in, flushing.
I don't give-" he subsided suddenly. "I'm afraid," Thea went on gravely, "that he won't understand.
But that only matters in so far as it hurts his feelings." Thea sighed.
We'll both look pretty low.
And after all, we must really be just about as we shall look to him." Ottenburg started up and threw his cigarette into the grate.
Have you ever been really frank with this preceptor of your childhood, even when you _were_ a child?
Think a minute, have you?
From your cradle, as I once told you, you've been 'doing it' on the side, living your own life, admitting to yourself things that would horrify him.
You've always deceived him to the extent of letting him think you different from what you are.
He couldn't understand then, he can't understand now.
So why not spare yourself and him?" She shook her head.
Of course, I've had my own thoughts.
Maybe he has had his, too.
But I've never done anything before that he would much mind.
I must put myself right with him,-as right as I can,-to begin over.
He'll make allowances for me.
But I'm afraid he won't for you." "Leave that to him and me.
I take it you want me to see him?
Fred sat down again and began absently to trace the carpet pattern with his cane.
At the worst," he spoke wanderingly, "I thought you'd perhaps let me go in on the business end of it and invest along with you.
You'd put in your talent and ambition and hard work, and I'd put in the money and-well, nobody's good wishes are to be scorned, not even mine.
Then, when the thing panned out big, we could share together.
Your doctor friend hasn't cared half so much about your future as I have." "He's cared a good deal.
He doesn't know as much about such things as you do.
Of course you've been a great deal more help to me than any one else ever has," Thea said quietly.
The black clock on the mantel began to strike.
She listened to the five strokes and then said, "I'd have liked your helping me eight months ago.
But now, you'd simply be keeping me." "You weren't ready for it eight months ago.
Fred leaned back at last in his chair.
You simply weren't ready for it.
Your whole tone was too low.
You couldn't rise from a chair like that,"-she had started up apprehensively and gone toward the window.-"You were fumbling and awkward.
Since then you've come into your personality.
You were always locking horns with it before.
You were a sullen little drudge eight months ago, afraid of being caught at either looking or moving like yourself.
Nobody could tell anything about you.
A voice is not an instrument that's found ready-made.
I divined more than anybody else." "Yes, I know you did.
Thea walked over to the oldfashioned mantel and held her hands down to the glow of the fire.
I owe so much to you, and that's what makes things hard.
That's why I have to get away from you altogether.
I depend on you for so many things.
Oh, I did even last winter, in Chicago!
She knelt down by the grate and held her hands closer to the coals.
And one thing leads to another." Ottenburg watched her as she bent toward the fire.
His glance brightened a little.
Anyhow, you couldn't look as you do now, before you knew me.
And whatever you do now, you do splendidly.
And you can't cry enough to spoil your face for more than ten minutes.
It comes right back, in spite of you.
It's only since you've known me that you've let yourself be beautiful." Without rising she turned her face away.
Oh, you can turn it away from me, Thea; you can take it away from me!
All the same-" his spurt died and he fell back.
How can you turn on me so, after all!" he sighed. "I haven't.
But when you arranged with yourself to take me in like that, you couldn't have been thinking very kindly of me.
I can't understand how you carried it through, when I was so easy, and all the circumstances were so easy." Her crouching position by the fire became threatening.
Fred got up, and Thea also rose. "No," he said, "I can't make you see that now.
Some time later, perhaps, you will understand better.
For one thing, I honestly could not imagine that words, names, meant so much to you.
Fred was talking with the desperation of a man who has put himself in the wrong and who yet feels that there was an idea of truth in his conduct.
He took a rapid turn about the room and then as Thea remained standing, he rolled one of the elephantine chairs up to the hearth for her. "Sit down and listen to me for a moment, Thea.
He began pacing from the hearthrug to the window and back again, while she sat down compliantly.
Don't you know most of the people in the world are not individuals at all?
They never have an individual idea or experience.
Such women know as much about the reality of the forms they go through as they know about the wars they learn the dates of.
They get their most personal experiences out of novels and plays.
Everything is second-hand with them.
Why, you _couldn't_ live like that." Thea sat looking toward the mantel, her eyes half closed, her chin level, her head set as if she were enduring something.
Her hands, very white, lay passive on her dark gown.
From the window corner Fred looked at them and at her.
He shook his head and flashed an angry, tormented look out into the blue twilight over the Square, through which muffled cries and calls and the clang of car bells came up from the street.
He turned again and began to pace the floor, his hands in his pockets. "Say what you will, Thea Kronborg, you are not that sort of person.
You will never sit alone with a pacifier and a novel.
You won't subsist on what the old ladies have put into the bottle for you.
You will always break through into the realities.
That was the first thing Harsanyi found out about you; that you couldn't be kept on the outside.
If you'd lived in Moonstone all your life and got on with the discreet brakeman, you'd have had just the same nature.
Your children would have been the realities then, probably.
If they'd been commonplace, you'd have killed them with driving.
You'd have managed some way to live twenty times as much as the people around you." Fred paused.
He sought along the shadowy ceiling and heavy mouldings for words.
When he began again, his voice was lower, and at first he spoke with less conviction, though again it grew on him.
Now I knew all this-oh, knew it better than I can ever make you understand!
You've been running a handicap.
You had no time to lose.
I wanted you to have what you need and to get on fast-get through with me, if need be; I counted on that.
You've no time to sit round and analyze your conduct or your feelings.
Other women give their whole lives to it.
They've nothing else to do.
Helping a man to get his divorce is a career for them; just the sort of intellectual exercise they like." Fred dived fiercely into his pockets as if he would rip them out and scatter their contents to the winds.
Stopping before her, he took a deep breath and went on again, this time slowly.
All that sort of thing is foreign to you.
You'd be nowhere at it.
You haven't that kind of mind.
The grammatical niceties of conduct are dark to you.
Fred's voice seemed to be wandering about in the thickening dusk.
You won't, perhaps, love many times.
And you did love me, you know.
Your railroad friend would have understood me.
I _could_ have thrown you back.
The reverse was there,-it stared me in the face,-but I couldn't pull it.
I let you drive ahead.
He threw out his hands.
What Thea noticed, oddly enough, was the flash of the firelight on his cuff link.
And you'll always drive ahead," he muttered.
It's your way." There was a long silence.
Fred had dropped into a chair.
He seemed, after such an explosion, not to have a word left in him.
Thea put her hand to the back of her neck and pressed it, as if the muscles there were aching. "Well," she said at last, "I at least overlook more in you than I do in myself.
I am always excusing you to myself.
I don't do much else." "Then why, in Heaven's name, won't you let me be your friend?
You make a scoundrel of me, borrowing money from another man to get out of my clutches." "If I borrow from him, it's to study.
Anything I took from you would be different.
As I said before, you'd be keeping me." "Keeping!
It's pure Moonstone, Thea,-like your point of view.
I wonder how long you'll be a Methodist.
He turned away bitterly. "Well, I've never said I wasn't Moonstone, have I?
I am, and that's why I want Dr. Archie.
I can't see anything so funny about Moonstone, you know.
She pushed her chair back a little from the hearth and clasped her hands over her knee, still looking thoughtfully into the red coals. "We always come back to the same thing, Fred.
The name, as you call it, makes a difference to me how I feel about myself.
You would have acted very differently with a girl of your own kind, and that's why I can't take anything from you now.
Being married is one thing and not being married is the other thing, and that's all there is to it.
I can't see how you reasoned with yourself, if you took the trouble to reason.
You say I was too much alone, and yet what you did was to cut me off more than I ever had been.
Now I'm going to try to make good to my friends out there.
That's all there is left for me." "Make good to your friends!
What one of them cares as I care, or believes as I believe?
If you know me as well as you say you do, Fred," she said slowly, "then you are not being honest with yourself.
You know that I can't do things halfway.
If you kept me at all-you'd keep me.
She dropped her head wearily on her hand and sat with her forehead resting on her fingers. Fred leaned over her and said just above his breath, "Then, when I get that divorce, you'll take it up with me again?
You'll at least let me know, warn me, before there is a serious question of anybody else?" Without lifting her head, Thea answered him.
Oh, I don't think there will ever be a question of anybody else.
Not if I can help it.
I suppose I've given you every reason to think there will be,-at once, on shipboard, any time." Ottenburg drew himself up like a shot.
Stop it, Thea!" he said sharply.
That's one thing you've never done.
That's like any common woman.
He saw her shoulders lift a little and grow calm.
Then he went to the other side of the room and took up his hat and gloves from the sofa.
I didn't drop in to bully you this afternoon.
I came to coax you to go out for tea with me somewhere.
He waited, but she did not look up or lift her head, still sunk on her hand. Her handkerchief had fallen.
Fred picked it up and put it on her knee, pressing her fingers over it.
Good-night, dear and wonderful," he whispered,-"wonderful and dear!
How can you ever get away from me when I will always follow you, through every wall, through every door, wherever you go.
He looked down at her bent head, and the curve of her neck that was so sad.
He stooped, and with his lips just touched her hair where the firelight made it ruddiest.
I didn't know I had it in me, Thea.
I thought it was all a fairy tale.
I don't know myself any more.
He closed his eyes and breathed deeply.
The salt's all gone out of your hair.
It's full of sun and wind again.
I believe it has memories.
Again she heard him take a deep breath.
I could do without you for a lifetime, if that would give you to yourself.
A woman like you doesn't find herself, alone." She thrust her free hand up to him.
He kissed it softly, as if she were asleep and he were afraid of waking her. From the door he turned back irrelevantly.
As to your old friend, Thea, if he's to be here on Friday, why,"-he snatched out his watch and held it down to catch the light from the grate,-"he's on the train now! That ought to cheer you.
Thea was flushed and animated, and she seemed as restless as the sooty sparrows that chirped and cheeped distractingly about the windows.
She kept looking at the black clock, and then down into the Square.
The room was full of flowers, and she stopped now and then to arrange them or to move them into the sunlight.
I am glad you've come, Fred.
I was afraid you might not get my note, and I wanted to see you before you see Dr. Archie.
She brought her hands together to emphasize her statement. "Is he?
You see I'm quite out of breath.
I didn't wait for the elevator, but ran upstairs.
I was so pleased at being sent for.
He dropped his hat and overcoat.
Yes, I should say he is nice!
I don't seem to recognize all of these," waving his handkerchief about at the flowers. "Yes, he brought them himself, in a big box.
He brought lots with him besides flowers.
The old Moonstone feeling,"-Thea moved her hand back and forth in the air, fluttering her fingers,-"the feeling of starting out, early in the morning, to take my lesson." "And you've had everything out with him?" "No, I haven't." "Haven't?
He looked up in consternation. "No, I haven't!
Thea spoke excitedly, moving about over the sunny patches on the grimy carpet.
I've lied to him, just as you said I had always lied to him, and that's why I'm so happy.
I've let him think what he likes to think.
Oh, I couldn't do anything else, Fred,"-she shook her head emphatically.
If you'd seen him when he came in, so pleased and excited!
You see this is a great adventure for him.
From the moment I began to talk to him, he entreated me not to say too much, not to spoil his notion of me.
Not in so many words, of course.
But if you'd seen his eyes, his face, his kind hands!
She took a deep breath, as if with a renewed sense of her narrow escape. "Then, what did you tell him?
Fred demanded. Thea sat down on the edge of the sofa and began shutting and opening her hands nervously.
Well, I told him enough, and not too much.
I told him all about how good you were to me last winter, getting me engagements and things, and how you had helped me with my work more than anybody.
Then I told him about how you sent me down to the ranch when I had no money or anything.
Thea dropped her eyes and moved the toe of her shoe about restlessly on the carpet. "And he took it from you, like that?
Fred asked, almost with awe. "Yes, just like that, and asked no questions.
He was hurt; he had some wretched moments.
I could see him squirming and squirming and trying to get past it.
He kept shutting his eyes and rubbing his forehead.
But when I told him that I absolutely knew you wanted to marry me, that you would whenever you could, that seemed to help him a good deal." "And that satisfied him?
He could not quite imagine what kind of person Dr. Archie might be. "He took me by the shoulders once and asked, oh, in such a frightened way, 'Thea, was he _good_ to you, this young man?
When I told him you were, he looked at me again: 'And you care for him a great deal, you believe in him?
You see, he's just tremendously good, and tremendously afraid of things-of some things.
Otherwise he would have got rid of Mrs. Archie.
She looked up suddenly: "You were right, though; one can't tell people about things they don't know already." Fred stood in the window, his back to the sunlight, fingering the jonquils.
Yes, you can, my dear.
But you must tell it in such a way that they don't know you're telling it, and that they don't know they're hearing it." Thea smiled past him, out into the air.
Like the sound in the shell." "What's that?
Fred was watching her and thinking how moving that faraway expression, in her, happened to be.
What did you say?" She came back.
Oh, something old and Moonstony!
I have almost forgotten it myself.
But I feel better than I thought I ever could again.
I can't wait to be off.
Oh, Fred," she sprang up, "I want to get at it!" As she broke out with this, she threw up her head and lifted herself a little on her toes.
Fred colored and looked at her fearfully, hesitatingly.
Her eyes, which looked out through the window, were bright-they had no memories.
No, she did not remember.
That momentary elevation had no associations for her.
It was unconscious. He looked her up and down and laughed and shook his head.
You are just all I want you to be-and that is,-not for me!
Don't worry, you'll get at it.
My God! have you ever, for one moment, been at anything else?" Thea did not answer him, and clearly she had not heard him.
She was watching something out in the thin light of the false spring and its treacherously soft air. Fred waited a moment.
Are you going to dine with your friend to-night?" "Yes.
He has never been in New York before.
He wants to go about.
Where shall I tell him to go?" "Wouldn't it be a better plan, since you wish me to meet him, for you both to dine with me?
It would seem only natural and friendly.
You'll have to live up a little to his notion of us.
Thea seemed to consider the suggestion favorably.
If you wish him to be easy in his mind," Fred went on, "that would help.
I think, myself, that we are rather nice together.
Put on one of the new dresses you got down there, and let him see how lovely you can be.
You owe him some pleasure, after all the trouble he has taken." Thea laughed, and seemed to find the idea exciting and pleasant.
Only don't wear a dress coat, please.
He hasn't one, and he's nervous about it." Fred looked at his watch.
Your monument up there is fast.
I'll be here with a cab at eight.
I'm anxious to meet him.
You've given me the strangest idea of his callow innocence and aged indifference." She shook her head.
No, he's none of that.
He's very good, and he won't admit things.
I love him for it.
But Fred, as his father had often observed, "was not a good mixer for nothing.
He felt his quality; understood his courage in some directions and what Thea called his timidity in others, his unspent and miraculously preserved youthfulness.
Men could never impose upon the doctor, he guessed, but women always could.
Fred liked, too, the doctor's manner with Thea, his bashful admiration and the little hesitancy by which he betrayed his consciousness of the change in her.
It was just this change that, at present, interested Fred more than anything else.
As the two ran over the list of their friends, the mere sound of a name seemed to recall volumes to each of them, to indicate mines of knowledge and observation they had in common.
At some names they laughed delightedly, at some indulgently and even tenderly. "You two young people must come out to Moonstone when Thea gets back," the doctor said hospitably. "Oh, we shall!
I'm keen to know all these people. It is very tantalizing to hear only their names." "Would they interest an outsider very much, do you think, Dr. Archie?" Thea leaned toward him.
Isn't it only because we've known them since I was little?" The doctor glanced at her deferentially.
Fred had noticed that he seemed a little afraid to look at her squarely-perhaps a trifle embarrassed by a mode of dress to which he was unaccustomed.
It's all to your advantage that you can still take your old interest, isn't it, Mr. Ottenburg?" "That's exactly one of her advantages, Dr. Archie.
Nobody can ever take that away from her, and none of us who came later can ever hope to rival Moonstone in the impression we make.
Her scale of values will always be the Moonstone scale.
And, with an artist, that _is_ an advantage.
Fred nodded. Dr. Archie looked at him seriously.
Is it simply good manners on their part, or do they get more out of life?" Fred laughed to Thea above the glass he had just lifted.
Some of them are getting a good deal out of it now, doctor.
This is the hour when bench-joy brightens." Thea chuckled and darted him a quick glance.
Where did you get that slang?" "That happens to be very old slang, my dear.
Older than Moonstone or the sovereign State of Colorado.
Our old friend Mr. Nathanmeyer could tell us why it happens to hit you.
He leaned forward and touched Thea's wrist, "See that fur coat just coming in, Thea.
It's D'Albert. He's just back from his Western tour.
Fine head, hasn't he?" "To go back," said Dr. Archie; "I insist that people do look happier here.
I've noticed it even on the street, and especially in the hotels." Fred turned to him cheerfully.
New York people live a good deal in the fourth dimension, Dr. Archie.
It's that you notice in their faces." The doctor was interested.
The fourth dimension," he repeated slowly; "and is that slang, too?" "No,"-Fred shook his head,-"that's merely a figure.
I mean that life is not quite so personal here as it is in your part of the world.
People are more taken up by hobbies, interests that are less subject to reverses than their personal affairs.
If you're interested in Thea's voice, for instance, or in voices in general, that interest is just the same, even if your mining stocks go down." The doctor looked at him narrowly.
You think that's about the principal difference between country people and city people, don't you?" Fred was a little disconcerted at being followed up so resolutely, and he attempted to dismiss it with a pleasantry.
I've never thought much about it, doctor.
But I should say, on the spur of the moment, that that is one of the principal differences between people anywhere.
It's the consolation of fellows like me who don't accomplish much.
The fourth dimension is not good for business, but we think we have a better time." Dr. Archie leaned back in his chair.
His heavy shoulders were contemplative.
And she," he said slowly; "should you say that she is one of the kind you refer to?
He inclined his head toward the shimmer of the pale-green dress beside him.
Thea was leaning, just then, over the balcony rail, her head in the light from the chandeliers below. "Never, never!
She's as hard-headed as the worst of you-with a difference." The doctor sighed.
Yes, with a difference; something that makes a good many revolutions to the second.
When she was little I used to feel her head to try to locate it." Fred laughed.
So you were on the track of it?
We can't get round it, miss," as Thea looked back inquiringly.
Dr. Archie, there's a fellow townsman of yours I feel a real kinship for.
He pressed a cigar upon Dr. Archie and struck a match for him.
Tell me about Spanish Johnny." The doctor smiled benignantly through the first waves of smoke.
Well, Johnny's an old patient of mine, and he's an old admirer of Thea's.
She was born a cosmopolitan, and I expect she learned a good deal from Johnny when she used to run away and go to Mexican Town.
Fred settled down into enjoying his comprehension of his guests. Thea, watching Dr. Archie and interested in his presentation, was unconsciously impersonating her suave, gold-tinted friend.
It was delightful to see her so radiant and responsive again.
He recognized the fine texture of her mother's skin, with the difference that, when she reached across the table to give him a bunch of grapes, her arm was not only white, but somehow a little dazzling.
She seemed to him taller, and freer in all her movements.
She had now a way of taking a deep breath when she was interested, that made her seem very strong, somehow, and brought her at one quite overpoweringly.
She looked about at other people, at other women, curiously.
She was not quite sure of herself, but she was not in the least afraid or apologetic.
She seemed to sit there on the edge, emerging from one world into another, taking her bearings, getting an idea of the concerted movement about her, but with absolute self-confidence.
So far from shrinking, she expanded.
She existed in more space than she occupied by measurement.
The enveloping air about her head and shoulders was subsidized-was more moving than she herself, for in it lived the awakenings, all the first sweetness that life kills in people.
One felt in her such a wealth of _Jugendzeit_, all those flowers of the mind and the blood that bloom and perish by the myriad in the few exhaustless years when the imagination first kindles.
It was in his office one night, when she was at home the summer before last.
With rugs and sea-clothes she was already provided; Fred had got everything of that sort she needed for the voyage up from Vera Cruz.
On Sunday afternoon Thea went to see the Harsanyis.
He had just got a telegram from home.
His mother had been thrown from her carriage and hurt; a concussion of some sort, and she was unconscious.
He was leaving for St. Louis that night on the eleven o'clock train.
He had a great deal to attend to during the day.
He would come that evening, if he might, and stay with her until train time, while she was doing her packing.
Scarcely waiting for her consent, he hurried away. All day Thea was somewhat cast down.
She was sorry for Fred, and she missed the feeling that she was the one person in his mind.
He had scarcely looked at her when they exchanged words at the breakfast-table.
She felt as if she were set aside, and she did not seem so important even to herself as she had yesterday.
Certainly, she reflected, it was high time that she began to take care of herself again.
Dr. Archie came for dinner, but she sent him away early, telling him that she would be ready to go to the boat with him at half-past ten the next morning.
When she went upstairs, she looked gloomily at the open trunk in her sitting-room, and at the trays piled on the sofa.
She stood at the window and watched a quiet snowstorm spending itself over the city.
Have you had any more word?" "She was still unconscious at four this afternoon.
It doesn't look very encouraging.
He approached the fire and warmed his hands.
He seemed to have contracted, and he had not at all his habitual ease of manner. "Poor mother!" he exclaimed; "nothing like this should have happened to her.
She has so much pride of person.
She's not at all an old woman, you know.
She's never got beyond vigorous and rather dashing middle age.
He turned abruptly to Thea and for the first time really looked at her.
How badly things come out!
She'd have liked you for a daughter-in-law.
Oh, you'd have fought like the devil, but you'd have respected each other.
He sank into a chair and thrust his feet out to the fire.
Still," he went on thoughtfully, seeming to address the ceiling, "it might have been bad for you.
Our big German houses, our good German cooking-you might have got lost in the upholstery.
I feel now as if everything were rather casual, anyhow.
A thing like that dulls one's feelings." Thea, standing by her trunk, made no reply.
Presently he shook himself and rose.
Want me to put those trays in for you?" "No, thank you.
I'm not ready for them yet." Fred strolled over to the sofa, lifted a scarf from one of the trays and stood abstractedly drawing it through his fingers.
But I shan't carry any grudge away with me, if you mean that." He dropped the scarf.
And there's nothing-nothing at all you'll let me do?" "Yes, there is one thing, and it's a good deal to ask.
If I get knocked out, or never get on, I'd like you to see that Dr. Archie gets his money back.
I'm taking three thousand dollars of his." "Why, of course I shall.
You may dismiss that from your mind.
How fussy you are about money, Thea.
You make such a point of it.
He turned sharply and walked to the windows. Thea sat down in the chair he had quitted.
It's only poor people who feel that way about money, and who are really honest," she said gravely.
Sometimes I think that to be really honest, you must have been so poor that you've been tempted to steal." "To what?" "To steal.
I used to be, when I first went to Chicago and saw all the things in the big stores there.
Never anything big, but little things, the kind I'd never seen before and could never afford.
I did take something once, before I knew it." Fred came toward her.
For the first time she had his whole attention, in the degree to which she was accustomed to having it.
What was it?" he asked with interest. "A sachet.
A little blue silk bag of orris-root powder.
There was a whole counterful of them, marked down to fifty cents.
I'd never seen any before, and they seemed irresistible.
I took one up and wandered about the store with it.
Nobody seemed to notice, so I carried it off." Fred laughed.
Why, your things always smell of orris; is it a penance?" "No, I love it.
But I saw that the firm didn't lose anything by me.
I went back and bought it there whenever I had a quarter to spend.
I got a lot to take to Arizona.
I made it up to them." "I'll bet you did!
Why didn't I find you that first winter?
I'd have loved you just as you came!" Thea shook her head.
No, you wouldn't, but you might have found me amusing.
The Harsanyis said yesterday afternoon that I wore such a funny cape and that my shoes always squeaked.
They think I've improved. I told them it was your doing if I had, and then they looked scared." "Did you sing for Harsanyi?" "Yes.
He thinks I've improved there, too.
He said nice things to me. Oh, he was very nice!
He agrees with you about my going to Lehmann, if she'll take me.
He came out to the elevator with me, after we had said good-bye.
He said something nice out there, too, but he seemed sad." "What was it that he said?" "He said, 'When people, serious people, believe in you, they give you some of their best, so-take care of it, Miss Kronborg.
Then he waved his hands and went back." "If you sang, I wish you had taken me along.
Fred turned from her and went back to the window.
I wonder when I shall hear you sing again.
He picked up a bunch of violets and smelled them. "You know, your leaving me like this-well, it's almost inhuman to be able to do it so kindly and unconditionally." "I suppose it is.
It was almost inhuman to be able to leave home, too,-the last time, when I knew it was for good.
But all the same, I cared a great deal more than anybody else did.
I have no choice now.
No matter how much it breaks me up, I have to go. Do I seem to enjoy it?" Fred bent over her trunk and picked up something which proved to be a score, clumsily bound.
Did you ever try to sing this?
He opened it and on the engraved title-page read Wunsch's inscription, "_Einst, O Wunder!_" He looked up sharply at Thea. "Wunsch gave me that when he went away.
I've told you about him, my old teacher in Moonstone.
He leaned against the mantel and looked down at her. "No, I wish I had.
He may be dead by this time.
That was five years ago, and he used himself hard.
Mrs. Kohler was always afraid he would die off alone somewhere and be stuck under the prairie.
When we last heard of him, he was in Kansas." "If he were to be found, I'd like to do something for him.
I seem to get a good deal of him from this.
He opened the book again, where he kept the place with his finger, and scrutinized the purple ink.
Had he ever sung the song for you?" "No. I didn't know where the words were from until once, when Harsanyi sang it for me, I recognized them." Fred closed the book.
Let me see, what was your noble brakeman's name?" Thea looked up with surprise.
Ray, Ray Kennedy." "Ray Kennedy!" he laughed.
It couldn't well have been better!
Wunsch and Dr. Archie, and Ray, and I,"-he told them off on his fingers,-"your whistling-posts!
You haven't done so badly.
We've backed you as we could, some in our weakness and some in our might.
In your dark hours-and you'll have them-you may like to remember us.
He smiled whimsically and dropped the score into the trunk.
You are taking that with you?" "Surely I am. I haven't so many keepsakes that I can afford to leave that.
I haven't got many that I value so highly." "That you value so highly?
Fred echoed her gravity playfully.
You are delicious when you fall into your vernacular.
He laughed half to himself. "What's the matter with that?
Isn't it perfectly good English?" "Perfectly good Moonstone, my dear.
Like the readymade clothes that hang in the windows, made to fit everybody and fit nobody, a phrase that can be used on all occasions.
Oh,"-he started across the room again,-"that's one of the fine things about your going!
You'll be with the right sort of people and you'll learn a good, live, warm German, that will be like yourself.
You'll get a new speech full of shades and color like your voice; alive, like your mind.
It will be almost like being born again, Thea." She was not offended.
Fred had said such things to her before, and she wanted to learn.
And when I see you again I shall not see you, but your daughter.
He walked about the room, smoking and singing the words under his breath.
You'll like the voyage," he said abruptly.
That first approach to a foreign shore, stealing up on it and finding it-there's nothing like it.
It wakes up everything that's asleep in you.
You won't mind my writing to some people in Berlin?
They'll be nice to you." "I wish you would.
Thea gave a deep sigh.
I wish one could look ahead and see what is coming to one." "Oh, no!
Fred was smoking nervously; "that would never do.
It's the uncertainty that makes one try.
You've never had any sort of chance, and now I fancy you'll make it up to yourself.
You'll find the way to let yourself out in one long flight." Thea put her hand on her heart.
And then drop like the rocks we used to throw-anywhere.
She left the chair and went over to the sofa, hunting for something in the trunk trays.
When she came back she found Fred sitting in her place.
Here are some handkerchiefs of yours.
I've kept one or two.
They're larger than mine and useful if one has a headache." "Thank you.
How nicely they smell of your things!
He looked at the white squares for a moment and then put them in his pocket.
But this is a case by itself.
There seems to be no limit as to how much I can be in love with you.
He did not lift his eyes from her fingers, which he continued to study with the same fervor.
Every kind of stringed instrument there is plays in your hands, Thea," he whispered, pressing them to his face. She dropped beside him and slipped into his arms, shutting her eyes and lifting her cheek to his.
Tell me one thing," Fred whispered.
I'd never give them up.
Don't make me pay too much.
In that embrace they lived over again all the others. When Thea drew away from him, she dropped her face in her hands.
You are good to me," she breathed, "you are!" Rising to his feet, he put his hands under her elbows and lifted her gently.
He drew her toward the door with him.
Don't stop short of splendid things.
I want them for you more than I want anything else, more than I want one splendid thing for myself.
I can't help feeling that you'll gain, somehow, by my losing so much.
That you'll gain the very thing I lose. Take care of her, as Harsanyi said.
He kissed her and went out of the door without looking back, just as if he were coming again to-morrow. Thea went quickly into her bedroom.
She brought out an armful of muslin things, knelt down, and began to lay them in the trays.
Suddenly she stopped, dropped forward and leaned against the open trunk, her head on her arms.
The tears fell down on the dark old carpet.
After all, she was a Moonstone girl, one of the preacher's children.
Everything else was in Fred's imagination.
Why was she called upon to take such chances?
Any safe, humdrum work that did not compromise her would be better.
But if she failed now, she would lose her soul.
There was nowhere to fall, after one took that step, except into abysses of wretchedness.
She knew what abysses, for she could still hear the old man playing in the snowstorm, "_Ach, ich habe sie verloren!_" That melody was released in her like a passion of longing.
Every nerve in her body thrilled to it.
It brought her to her feet, carried her somehow to bed and into troubled sleep. That night she taught in Moonstone again: she beat her pupils in hideous rages, she kept on beating them.
She sang at funerals, and struggled at the piano with Harsanyi.
All night she heard the shrieking of trains, whistling in and out of Moonstone, as she used to hear them in her sleep when they blew shrill in the winter air.
But to-night they were terrifying,-the spectral, fated trains that "raced with death," about which the old woman from the depot used to pray. In the morning she wakened breathless after a struggle with Mrs. Livery Johnson's daughter.
She started up with a bound, threw the blankets back and sat on the edge of the bed, her night-dress open, her long braids hanging over her bosom, blinking at the daylight.
After all, it was not too late.
She was only twenty years old, and the boat sailed at noon.
There was still time! PART VI. KRONBORG Ten Years Later I It is a glorious winter day.
Denver, standing on her high plateau under a thrilling green-blue sky, is masked in snow and glittering with sunlight.
The Capitol building is actually in armor, and throws off the shafts of the sun until the beholder is dazzled and the outlines of the building are lost in a blaze of reflected light.
The stone terrace is a white field over which fiery reflections dance, and the trees and bushes are faithfully repeated in snow-on every black twig a soft, blurred line of white.
From the terrace one looks directly over to where the mountains break in their sharp, familiar lines against the sky.
He is ten years older than when we saw him last, and emphatically ten years more prosperous.
A decade of coming into things has not so much aged him as it has fortified, smoothed, and assured him.
His sandy hair and imperial conceal whatever gray they harbor.
He has not grown heavier, but more flexible, and his massive shoulders carry fifty years and the control of his great mining interests more lightly than they carried forty years and a country practice.
In short, he is one of the friends to whom we feel grateful for having got on in the world, for helping to keep up the general temperature and our own confidence in life.
He is an acquaintance that one would hurry to overtake and greet among a hundred.
Did anything come up yesterday afternoon while I was away, T.
B.?" Thomas Burk turned over the leaf of his calendar.
Governor Alden sent down to say that he wanted to see you before he sends his letter to the Board of Pardons.
Asked if you could go over to the State House this morning." Archie shrugged his shoulders.
I'll think about it." The young man grinned. "Anything else?" his chief continued. T.
B. swung round in his chair with a look of interest on his shrewd, clean-shaven face.
Old Jasper Flight was in, Dr. Archie.
I never expected to see him alive again.
Seems he's tucked away for the winter with a sister who's a housekeeper at the Oxford.
He's all crippled up with rheumatism, but as fierce after it as ever.
Wants to know if you or the company won't grub-stake him again.
Says he's sure of it this time; had located something when the snow shut down on him in December. He wants to crawl out at the first break in the weather, with that same old burro with the split ear.
He got somebody to winter the beast for him.
He's superstitious about that burro, too; thinks it's divinely guided.
You ought to hear the line of talk he put up here yesterday; said when he rode in his carriage, that burro was a-going to ride along with him." Archie laughed.
Did he leave you his address?" "He didn't neglect anything," replied the clerk cynically. "Well, send him a line and tell him to come in again.
I like to hear him.
Of all the crazy prospectors I've ever known, he's the most interesting, because he's really crazy.
Of course I'll stake him!
As long as he can crawl out in the spring.
He and that burro are a sight together. The beast is nearly as white as Jasper; must be twenty years old." "If you stake him this time, you won't have to again," said T.
He'll croak up there, mark my word.
Says he never ties the burro at night now, for fear he might be called sudden, and the beast would starve.
I guess that animal could eat a lariat rope, all right, and enjoy it." "I guess if we knew the things those two have eaten, and haven't eaten, in their time, T.
B., it would make us vegetarians.
The doctor sat down and looked thoughtful.
That's the way for the old man to go.
It would be pretty hard luck if he had to die in a hospital.
I wish he could turn up something before he cashes in. But his kind seldom do; they're bewitched.
I've been meeting Jasper Flight, and his side meat and tin pans, up in the mountains for years, and I'd miss him.
I always halfway believe the fairy tales he spins me. Old Jasper Flight," Archie murmured, as if he liked the name or the picture it called up. A clerk came in from the outer office and handed Archie a card.
He sprang up and exclaimed, "Mr. Ottenburg?
Bring him in." Fred Ottenburg entered, clad in a long, fur-lined coat, holding a checked-cloth hat in his hand, his cheeks and eyes bright with the outdoor cold.
The two men met before Archie's desk and their handclasp was longer than friendship prompts except in regions where the blood warms and quickens to meet the dry cold.
Under the general keyingup of the altitude, manners take on a heartiness, a vivacity, that is one expression of the half-unconscious excitement which Colorado people miss when they drop into lower strata of air.
The heart, we are told, wears out early in that high atmosphere, but while it pumps it sends out no sluggish stream.
Our two friends stood gripping each other by the hand and smiling. "When did you get in, Fred?
And what have you come for?
Archie gave him a quizzical glance. "I've come to find out what you think you're doing out here," the younger man declared emphatically.
I want to get next, I do.
When can you see me?" "Anything on to-night?
Then suppose you dine with me.
Where can I pick you up at five-thirty?" "Bixby's office, general freight agent of the Burlington.
Ottenburg began to button his overcoat and drew on his gloves.
I've got to have one shot at you before I go, Archie.
Didn't I tell you Pinky Alden was a cheap squirt?" Alden's backer laughed and shook his head.
Oh, he's worse than that, Fred.
It isn't polite to mention what he is, outside of the Arabian Nights.
I guessed you'd come to rub it into me." Ottenburg paused, his hand on the doorknob, his high color challenging the doctor's calm.
I'm disgusted with you, Archie, for training with such a pup.
A man of your experience!" "Well, he's been an experience," Archie muttered.
I'm not coy about admitting it, am I?" Ottenburg flung open the door.
Even the women are out for capital and corruption, I hear.
Your Governor's done more for the United Breweries in six months than I've been able to do in six years.
He's the lily-livered sort we're looking for.
Good-morning." That afternoon at five o'clock Dr. Archie emerged from the State House after his talk with Governor Alden, and crossed the terrace under a saffron sky.
The snow, beaten hard, was blue in the dusk; a day of blinding sunlight had not even started a thaw.
Archie lived in his own house on Colfax Avenue, where he had roomy grounds and a rose garden and a conservatory.
The poor woman's fight against dust was her undoing at last.
One summer day when she was rubbing the parlor upholstery with gasoline,-the doctor had often forbidden her to use it on any account, so that was one of the pleasures she seized upon in his absence,-an explosion occurred.
Nobody ever knew exactly how it happened, for Mrs. Archie was dead when the neighbors rushed in to save her from the burning house.
She must have inhaled the burning gas and died instantly. Moonstone severity relented toward her somewhat after her death.
The house burned to the ground, and all those material reminders which have such power over people disappeared in an hour.
His mining interests now took him to Denver so often that it seemed better to make his headquarters there.
He gave up his practice and left Moonstone for good.
In a few years Dr. Archie was a very rich man.
His mine was such an important item in the mineral output of the State, and Archie had a hand in so many of the new industries of Colorado and New Mexico, that his political influence was considerable.
He had thrown it all, two years ago, to the new reform party, and had brought about the election of a governor of whose conduct he was now heartily ashamed.
As for me, just because I can't marry, I find the world full of charming, unattached women, any one of whom I could fit up a house for with alacrity." "You're more knowing than I.
I'm not very wide awake about women.
I'd be likely to pick out one of the uncomfortable ones-and there are a few of them, you know.
He drank his cocktail and rubbed his hands together in a friendly way.
My friends here have charming wives, and they don't give me a chance to get lonely.
They are very kind to me, and I have a great many pleasant friendships." Fred put down his glass.
Yes, I've always noticed that women have confidence in you.
You have the doctor's way of getting next.
And you enjoy that kind of thing?" "The friendship of attractive women?
I depend upon it a great deal." The butler announced dinner, and the two men went downstairs to the dining-room.
Dr. Archie's dinners were always good and well served, and his wines were excellent. "I saw the Fuel and Iron people to-day," Ottenburg said, looking up from his soup.
Their heart is in the right place.
I can't see why in the mischief you ever got mixed up with that reform gang, Archie. You've got nothing to reform out here.
They provide notoriety for the fellows who can't distinguish themselves at running a business or practicing law or developing an industry.
Here you have a mediocre lawyer with no brains and no practice, trying to get a look-in on something.
He comes up with the novel proposition that the prostitute has a hard time of it, puts his picture in the paper, and the first thing you know, he's a celebrity.
He gets the rake-off and she's just where she was before. How could you fall for a mouse-trap like Pink Alden, Archie?" Dr. Archie laughed as he began to carve.
Pink seems to get under your skin.
He's not worth talking about.
People won't read about his blameless life any more.
I knew those interviews he gave out would cook him.
They were a last resort.
I could have stopped him, but by that time I'd come to the conclusion that I'd let the reformers down.
I'm not against a general shaking-up, but the trouble with Pinky's crowd is they never get beyond a general writing-up.
Well, we'll go upstairs for our coffee and cut this out.
Tai placed two chairs before the fire and brought a tray of cigarettes. "Bring the cigars in my lower desk drawer, boy," the doctor directed. "Too much light in here, isn't there, Fred?
Light the lamp there on my desk, Tai.
There'd be no fight made against you.
I needn't say the United Breweries would back you.
There'd be some _kudos_ coming to us, too; backing a reform candidate." Dr. Archie measured his length in his chair and thrust his large boots toward the crackling pitch-pine.
He drank his coffee and lit a big black cigar while his guest looked over the assortment of cigarettes on the tray.
You say why don't I," the doctor spoke with the deliberation of a man in the position of having several courses to choose from, "but, on the other hand, why should I?
He puffed away and seemed, through his half-closed eyes, to look down several long roads with the intention of luxuriously rejecting all of them and remaining where he was.
I'm disillusioned about serving my crowd, and I don't particularly want to serve yours.
Nothing in it that I particularly want; and a man's not effective in politics unless he wants something for himself, and wants it hard.
I can reach my ends by straighter roads.
There are plenty of things to keep me busy.
We haven't begun to develop our resources in this State; we haven't had a look in on them yet.
Fred lit a cigarette and let his friend grope for his idea. "My boys, here," Archie went on, "have got me rather interested in Japan.
Think I'll go out there in the spring, and come back the other way, through Siberia.
I've always wanted to go to Russia.
His eyes still hunted for something in his big fireplace.
With a slow turn of his head he brought them back to his guest and fixed them upon him. "Just now, I'm thinking of running on to New York for a few weeks," he ended abruptly. Ottenburg lifted his chin.
Ah!" he exclaimed, as if he began to see Archie's drift.
Shall you see Thea?" "Yes.
The doctor replenished his cordial glass.
In fact, I suspect I am going exactly _to_ see her.
I'm getting stale on things here, Fred. Best people in the world and always doing things for me.
I'm fond of them, too, but I've been with them too much.
I'm getting ill-tempered, and the first thing I know I'll be hurting people's feelings.
I snapped Mrs. Dandridge up over the telephone this afternoon when she asked me to go out to Colorado Springs on Sunday to meet some English people who are staying at the Antlers.
Very nice of her to want me, and I was as sour as if she'd been trying to work me for something.
I've got to get out for a while, to save my reputation." To this explanation Ottenburg had not paid much attention.
He seemed to be looking at a fixed point: the yellow glass eyes of a fine wildcat over one of the bookcases.
You've never heard her at all, have you?" he asked reflectively.
Curious, when this is her second season in New York." "I was going on last March.
And then old Cap Harris thought he could drive his car and me through a lamp-post and I was laid up with a compound fracture for two months.
So I didn't get to see Thea." Ottenburg studied the red end of his cigarette attentively.
She might have come out to see you.
I remember you covered the distance like a streak when she wanted you." Archie moved uneasily.
Oh, she couldn't do that.
She had to get back to Vienna to work on some new parts for this year.
She sailed two days after the New York season closed." "Well, then she couldn't, of course.
Fred smoked his cigarette close and tossed the end into the fire.
I'm tremendously glad you're going now.
If you're stale, she'll jack you up.
That's one of her specialties.
She got a rise out of me last December that lasted me all winter." "Of course," the doctor apologized, "you know so much more about such things.
I'm afraid it will be rather wasted on me.
I'm no judge of music." "Never mind that.
The younger man pulled himself up in his chair.
She gets it across to people who aren't judges.
That's just what she does." He relapsed into his former lassitude.
If you were stone deaf, it wouldn't all be wasted.
It's a great deal to watch her.
Incidentally, you know, she is very beautiful.
Photographs give you no idea." Dr. Archie clasped his large hands under his chin.
Oh, I'm counting on that.
I don't suppose her voice will sound natural to me.
Probably I wouldn't know it." Ottenburg smiled.
You'll know it, if you ever knew it.
It's the same voice, only more so.
You'll know it." "Did you, in Germany that time, when you wrote me?
That must have been at the very beginning." "Yes, somewhere near the beginning.
She sang one of the Rhine daughters.
Fred paused and drew himself up again.
Sure, I knew it from the first note.
I'd heard a good many young voices come up out of the Rhine, but, by gracious, I hadn't heard one like that!
He fumbled for another cigarette.
Mahler was conducting that night.
I met him as he was leaving the house and had a word with him.
Interesting voice you tried out this evening,' I said.
She seems to sing for the idea.
Unusual in a young singer.
I'd never heard him admit before that a singer could have an idea.
She not only had it, but she got it across.
The Rhine music, that I'd known since I was a boy, was fresh to me, vocalized for the first time.
You realized that she was beginning that long story, adequately, with the end in view.
Every phrase she sang was basic.
She simply _was_ the idea of the Rhine music.
Ottenburg rose and stood with his back to the fire.
And at the end, where you don't see the maidens at all, the same thing again: two pretty voices _and_ the Rhine voice.
Fred snapped his fingers and dropped his hand. The doctor looked up at him enviously.
You see, all that would be lost on me," he said modestly.
I don't know the dream nor the interpretation thereof.
It's too bad that so few of her old friends can appreciate her." "Take a try at it," Fred encouraged him.
You'll get in deeper than you can explain to yourself.
People with no personal interest do that." "I suppose," said Archie diffidently, "that college German, gone to seed, wouldn't help me out much.
I used to be able to make my German patients understand me." "Sure it would!" cried Ottenburg heartily.
Don't be above knowing your libretto.
That's all very well for musicians, but common mortals like you and me have got to know what she's singing about.
Get out your dictionary and go at it as you would at any other proposition.
Her diction is beautiful, and if you know the text you'll get a great deal. So long as you're going to hear her, get all that's coming to you.
You bet in Germany people know their librettos by heart!
You Americans are so afraid of stooping to learn anything." "I _am_ a little ashamed," Archie admitted.
I guess that's the way we mask our general ignorance.
However, I'll stoop this time; I'm more ashamed not to be able to follow her.
The papers always say she's such a fine actress.
He took up the tongs and began to rearrange the logs that had burned through and fallen apart.
I suppose she has changed a great deal?" he asked absently. "We've all changed, my dear Archie,-she more than most of us.
Yes, and no. She's all there, only there's a great deal more of her.
I've had only a few words with her in several years.
It's better not, when I'm tied up this way.
The laws are barbarous, Archie." "Your wife is-still the same?" the doctor asked sympathetically. "Absolutely.
Hasn't been out of a sanitarium for seven years now.
No prospect of her ever being out, and as long as she's there I'm tied hand and foot.
What does society get out of such a state of things, I'd like to know, except a tangle of irregularities?
If you want to reform, there's an opening for you!" "It's bad, oh, very bad; I agree with you!
Dr. Archie shook his head. "But there would be complications under another system, too.
The whole question of a young man's marrying has looked pretty grave to me for a long while.
How have they the courage to keep on doing it?
It depresses me now to buy wedding presents.
For some time the doctor watched his guest, who was sunk in bitter reflections.
Such things used to go better than they do now, I believe.
Seems to me all the married people I knew when I was a boy were happy enough.
He paused again and bit the end off a fresh cigar.
You never saw Thea's mother, did you, Ottenburg?
Mrs. Kronborg was a fine woman.
I've always been afraid Thea made a mistake, not coming home when Mrs. Kronborg was ill, no matter what it cost her." Ottenburg moved about restlessly.
She couldn't, Archie, she positively couldn't.
I felt you never understood that, but I was in Dresden at the time, and though I wasn't seeing much of her, I could size up the situation for myself.
It was by just a lucky chance that she got to sing _Elizabeth_ that time at the Dresden Opera, a complication of circumstances.
If she'd run away, for any reason, she might have waited years for such a chance to come again.
She gave a wonderful performance and made a great impression.
They offered her certain terms; she had to take them and follow it up then and there.
In that game you can't lose a single trick.
She was ill herself, but she sang.
Her mother was ill, and she sang.
No, you mustn't hold that against her, Archie.
She did the right thing there.
Ottenburg drew out his watch.
You hear from her regularly?" "More or less regularly.
She was never much of a letter-writer.
She tells me about her engagements and contracts, but I know so little about that business that it doesn't mean much to me beyond the figures, which seem very impressive.
We've had a good deal of business correspondence, about putting up a stone to her father and mother, and, lately, about her youngest brother, Thor.
He is with me now; he drives my car.
To-day he's up at the mine." Ottenburg, who had picked up his overcoat, dropped it.
Drives your car?" he asked incredulously. "Yes.
Thea and I have had a good deal of bother about Thor.
We tried a business college, and an engineering school, but it was no good.
Thor was born a chauffeur before there were cars to drive.
He was never good for anything else; lay around home and collected postage stamps and took bicycles to pieces, waiting for the automobile to be invented. He's just as much a part of a car as the steering-gear.
I can't find out whether he likes his job with me or not, or whether he feels any curiosity about his sister.
You can't find anything out from a Kronborg nowadays.
The mother was different." Fred plunged into his coat.
Well, it's a queer world, Archie.
But you'll think better of it, if you go to New York.
Wish I were going with you.
I'll drop in on you in the morning at about eleven.
I want a word with you about this Interstate Commerce Bill.
Good-night." Dr. Archie saw his guest to the motor which was waiting below, and then went back to his library, where he replenished the fire and sat down for a long smoke.
A man of Archie's modest and rather credulous nature develops late, and makes his largest gain between forty and fifty.
At thirty, indeed, as we have seen, Archie was a soft-hearted boy under a manly exterior, still whistling to keep up his courage.
Prosperity and large responsibilities-above all, getting free of poor Mrs. Archie-had brought out a good deal more than he knew was in him.
And yet, he was not so fresh and energetic as he ought to be.
He was tired of business and of politics.
Worse than that, he was tired of the men with whom he had to do and of the women who, as he said, had been kind to him.
He felt as if he were still hunting for something, like old Jasper Flight.
He knew that this was an unbecoming and ungrateful state of mind, and he reproached himself for it.
But he could not help wondering why it was that life, even when it gave so much, after all gave so little.
What was it that he had expected and missed?
Why was he, more than he was anything else, disappointed? He fell to looking back over his life and asking himself which years of it he would like to live over again,-just as they had been,-and they were not many.
His college years he would live again, gladly.
After them there was nothing he would care to repeat until he came to Thea Kronborg.
He realized now that she had counted for a great deal more to him than he knew at the time.
It was a continuous sort of relationship.
He was always on the lookout for her as he went about the town, always vaguely expecting her as he sat in his office at night.
He had never asked himself then if it was strange that he should find a child of twelve the most interesting and companionable person in Moonstone.
It had seemed a pleasant, natural kind of solicitude.
He explained it then by the fact that he had no children of his own.
But now, as he looked back at those years, the other interests were faded and inanimate.
The thought of them was heavy.
But wherever his life had touched Thea Kronborg's, there was still a little warmth left, a little sparkle.
They came nearer to being tender secrets than any others he possessed.
Nearer than anything else they corresponded to what he had hoped to find in the world, and had not found.
It came over him now that the unexpected favors of fortune, no matter how dazzling, do not mean very much to us.
Mrs. Kronborg's land in Nebraska increased in value and brought her in a good rental.
The family drifted into an easier way of living, half without realizing it, as families will.
Then Mr. Kronborg, who had never been ill, died suddenly of cancer of the liver, and after his death Mrs. Kronborg went, as her neighbors said, into a decline.
Hearing discouraging reports of her from the physician who had taken over his practice, Dr. Archie went up from Denver to see her.
When the doctor arrived, she was sitting up in her bed, knitting.
He felt at once how glad she was to see him, but he soon gathered that she had made no determination to get well.
She told him, indeed, that she could not very well get along without Mr. Kronborg.
The doctor looked at her with astonishment.
Was it possible that she could miss the foolish old man so much?
He reminded her of her children. "Yes," she replied; "the children are all very well, but they are not father.
We were married young." The doctor watched her wonderingly as she went on knitting, thinking how much she looked like Thea.
The difference was one of degree rather than of kind.
The daughter had a compelling enthusiasm, the mother had none.
But their framework, their foundation, was very much the same. In a moment Mrs. Kronborg spoke again.
Have you heard anything from Thea lately?" During his talk with her, the doctor gathered that what Mrs. Kronborg really wanted was to see her daughter Thea.
Lying there day after day, she wanted it calmly and continuously.
He told her that, since she felt so, he thought they might ask Thea to come home. "I've thought a good deal about it," said Mrs. Kronborg slowly.
I hate to interrupt her, now that she's begun to get advancement.
I expect she's seen some pretty hard times, though she was never one to complain.
Perhaps she'd feel that she would like to come.
Complications in the opera at Dresden had given her an unhoped-for opportunity to go on in a big part.
She wanted to go to her mother more than she wanted anything else in the world, but, unless she failed,-which she would not,-she absolutely could not leave Dresden for six months.
It was not that she chose to stay; she had to stay-or lose everything.
The next few months would put her five years ahead, or would put her back so far that it would be of no use to struggle further.
As soon as she was free, she would go to Moonstone and take her mother back to Germany with her.
Her mother, she was sure, could live for years yet, and she would like German people and German ways, and could be hearing music all the time.
He had great confidence in Mrs. Kronborg's power of will, and if Thea's appeal took hold of her enough, he believed she might get better.
But when he was shown into the familiar room off the parlor, his heart sank.
Mrs. Kronborg was lying serene and fateful on her pillows.
On the dresser at the foot of her bed there was a large photograph of Thea in the character in which she was to make her debut.
Mrs. Kronborg pointed to it. "Isn't she lovely, doctor?
It's nice that she hasn't changed much.
I've seen her look like that many a time." They talked for a while about Thea's good fortune.
Mrs. Kronborg had had a cablegram saying, "First performance well received.
In her letter Thea said; "If you'll only get better, dear mother, there's nothing I can't do.
I will make a really great success, if you'll try with me.
You shall have everything you want, and we will always be together.
The children you don't especially need, you have always with you, like the poor.
But the bright ones get away from you.
They have their own way to make in the world.
Seems like the brighter they are, the farther they go.
I used to feel sorry that you had no family, doctor, but maybe you're as well off." "Thea's plan seems sound to me, Mrs. Kronborg.
There's no reason I can see why you shouldn't pull up and live for years yet, under proper care.
You'd have the best doctors in the world over there, and it would be wonderful to live with anybody who looks like that.
If father were here, I might rouse myself.
But sometimes it's hard to come back. Or if she were in trouble, maybe I could rouse myself." "But, dear Mrs. Kronborg, she is in trouble," her old friend expostulated.
As she says, she's never needed you as she needs you now.
I make my guess that she's never begged anybody to help her before." Mrs. Kronborg smiled.
Yes, it's pretty of her.
But that will pass. When these things happen far away they don't make such a mark; especially if your hands are full and you've duties of your own to think about.
My own father died in Nebraska when Gunner was born,-we were living in Iowa then,-and I was sorry, but the baby made it up to me.
I was father's favorite, too.
That's the way it goes, you see." The doctor took out Thea's letter to him, and read it over to Mrs. Kronborg.
She seemed to listen, and not to listen. When he finished, she said thoughtfully: "I'd counted on hearing her sing again.
But I always took my pleasures as they come.
I always enjoyed her singing when she was here about the house.
While she was practicing I often used to leave my work and sit down in a rocker and give myself up to it, the same as if I'd been at an entertainment.
I was never one of these housekeepers that let their work drive them to death.
I always thought she got more from you than from any of her teachers." "Except Wunsch; he was a real musician," said Mrs. Kronborg respectfully.
I gave her what chance I could, in a crowded house.
I kept the other children out of the parlor for her.
That was about all I could do.
If she wasn't disturbed, she needed no watching.
She went after it like a terrier after rats from the first, poor child.
She was downright afraid of it.
That's why I always encouraged her taking Thor off to outlandish places.
When she was out of the house, then she was rid of it." After they had recalled many pleasant memories together, Mrs. Kronborg said suddenly: "I always understood about her going off without coming to see us that time.
You had to keep your own counsel.
You were a good friend to her.
She patted the doctor's sleeve and went on absently.
There was something she didn't want to tell me, and that's why she didn't come.
Something happened when she was with those people in Mexico.
I worried for a good while, but I guess she's come out of it all right.
She'd had a pretty hard time, scratching along alone like that when she was so young, and my farms in Nebraska were down so low that I couldn't help her none. That's no way to send a girl out.
But I guess, whatever there was, she wouldn't be afraid to tell me now.
Mrs. Kronborg looked up at the photograph with a smile.
She doesn't look like she was beholding to anybody, does she?" "She isn't, Mrs. Kronborg.
That was why she borrowed the money from me." "Oh, I knew she'd never have sent for you if she'd done anything to shame us.
Mrs. Kronborg paused and turned a little on her side.
It's been quite a satisfaction to you and me, doctor, having her voice turn out so fine.
The things you hope for don't always turn out like that, by a long sight.
As long as old Mrs. Kohler lived, she used always to translate what it said about Thea in the German papers she sent.
I could make some of it out myself,-it's not very different from Swedish,-but it pleased the old lady.
She left Thea her piece-picture of the burning of Moscow.
I've got it put away in moth-balls for her, along with the oboe her grandfather brought from Sweden.
I want her to take father's oboe back there some day.
Mrs. Kronborg paused a moment and compressed her lips.
He looked down wonderingly at his old friend and patient.
After all, one never knew people to the core.
The other children were acting-up because they thought I might make a fuss over her and give her the big-head.
We gave her the dare, somehow, the lot of us, because we couldn't understand her changing teachers and all that.
That's the trouble about giving the dare to them quiet, unboastful children; you never know how far it'll take 'em.
Well, we ought not to complain, doctor; she's given us a good deal to think about." The next time Dr. Archie came to Moonstone, he came to be a pall-bearer at Mrs. Kronborg's funeral.
When he last looked at her, she was so serene and queenly that he went back to Denver feeling almost as if he had helped to bury Thea Kronborg herself.
He had got into Jersey City on an early train, and a red, windy sunrise over the North River had given him a good appetite.
He consulted the morning paper while he drank his coffee and saw that "Lohengrin" was to be sung at the opera that evening.
In the list of the artists who would appear was the name "Kronborg.
Such abruptness rather startled him.
Kronborg": it was impressive and yet, somehow, disrespectful; somewhat rude and brazen, on the back page of the morning paper.
After breakfast he went to the hotel ticket office and asked the girl if she could give him something for "Lohengrin," "near the front.
His manner was a trifle awkward and he wondered whether the girl noticed it.
Even if she did, of course, she could scarcely suspect.
Before the ticket stand he saw a bunch of blue posters announcing the opera casts for the week.
There was "Lohengrin," and under it he saw:- _Elsa von Brabant_ . . . .
Thea Kronborg. That looked better.
The girl gave him a ticket for a seat which she said was excellent.
He paid for it and went out to the cabstand.
He mentioned to the driver a number on Riverside Drive and got into a taxi.
It would not, of course, be the right thing to call upon Thea when she was going to sing in the evening.
He knew that much, thank goodness!
Fred Ottenburg had hinted to him that, more than almost anything else, that would put one in wrong. When he reached the number to which he directed his letters, he dismissed the cab and got out for a walk.
The house in which Thea lived was as impersonal as the Waldorf, and quite as large.
It was above 116th Street, where the Drive narrows, and in front of it the shelving bank dropped to the North River.
As Archie strolled about the paths which traversed this slope, below the street level, the fourteen stories of the apartment hotel rose above him like a perpendicular cliff.
He had no idea on which floor Thea lived, but he reflected, as his eye ran over the many windows, that the outlook would be fine from any floor.
The forbidding hugeness of the house made him feel as if he had expected to meet Thea in a crowd and had missed her.
He did not really believe that she was hidden away behind any of those glittering windows, or that he was to hear her this evening.
His walk was curiously uninspiring and unsuggestive.
Presently remembering that Ottenburg had encouraged him to study his lesson, he went down to the opera house and bought a libretto.
He had never been inside the Metropolitan Opera House before, and the height of the audience room, the rich color, and the sweep of the balconies were not without their effect upon him.
He watched the house fill with a growing feeling of expectation.
When the steel curtain rose and the men of the orchestra took their places, he felt distinctly nervous.
The whole atmosphere, he reflected, was somehow more serious than he had anticipated. After the curtains were drawn back upon the scene beside the Scheldt, he got readily into the swing of the story.
He was so much interested in the bass who sang _King Henry_ that he had almost forgotten for what he was waiting so nervously, when the _Herald_ began in stentorian tones to summon _Elsa Von Brabant_.
Then he began to realize that he was rather frightened.
There was a flutter of white at the back of the stage, and women began to come in: two, four, six, eight, but not the right one.
Yes, unquestionably it was she.
Her eyes were downcast, but the head, the cheeks, the chin-there could be no mistake; she advanced slowly, as if she were walking in her sleep.
Some one spoke to her; she only inclined her head.
He spoke again, and she bowed her head still lower.
Archie had forgotten his libretto, and he had not counted upon these long pauses.
He had expected her to appear and sing and reassure him.
They seemed to be waiting for her.
Why in thunder didn't she-She made a sound, a faint one.
The people on the stage whispered together and seemed confounded.
His nervousness was absurd. She must have done this often before; she knew her bearings.
She made another sound, but he could make nothing of it.
Then the King sang to her, and Archie began to remember where they were in the story.
Her face was there, toward the house now, before his eyes, and he positively could not see it.
She was singing, at last, and he positively could not hear her.
He was conscious of nothing but an uncomfortable dread and a sense of crushing disappointment.
He had, after all, missed her.
Whatever was there, she was not there-for him. The King interrupted her.
She began again, "_In lichter Waffen Scheine._" Archie did not know when his buckfever passed, but presently he found that he was sitting quietly in a darkened house, not listening to but dreaming upon a river of silver sound.
He felt apart from the others, drifting alone on the melody, as if he had been alone with it for a long while and had known it all before.
As a lad he used to believe that the faces of people who died were like that in the next world; the same faces, but shining with the light of a new understanding.
No, Ottenburg had not prepared him! What he felt was admiration and estrangement.
The homely reunion, that he had somehow expected, now seemed foolish.
Instead of feeling proud that he knew her better than all these people about him, he felt chagrined at his own ingenuousness.
For he did not know her better. This woman he had never known; she had somehow devoured his little friend, as the wolf ate up Red Ridinghood.
Beautiful, radiant, tender as she was, she chilled his old affection; that sort of feeling was not appropriate.
She seemed much, much farther away from him than she had seemed all those years when she was in Germany.
The ocean he could cross, but there was something here he could not cross.
There was a moment, when she turned to the King and smiled that rare, sunrise smile of her childhood, when he thought she was coming back to him.
After the _Herald's_ second call for her champion, when she knelt in her impassioned prayer, there was again something familiar, a kind of wild wonder that she had had the power to call up long ago.
But she merely reminded him of Thea; this was not the girl herself. After the tenor came on, the doctor ceased trying to make the woman before him fit into any of his cherished recollections.
He took her, in so far as he could, for what she was then and there.
When the knight raised the kneeling girl and put his mailed hand on her hair, when she lifted to him a face full of worship and passionate humility, Archie gave up his last reservation.
He knew no more about her than did the hundreds around him, who sat in the shadow and looked on, as he looked, some with more understanding, some with less.
He knew as much about _Ortrude_ or _Lohengrin_ as he knew about _Elsa_-more, because she went further than they, she sustained the legendary beauty of her conception more consistently.
Even he could see that.
He had begun, indeed, to feel the exhilaration of getting free from personalities, of being released from his own past as well as from Thea Kronborg's.
It was very much, he told himself, like a military funeral, exalting and impersonal.
Something old died in one, and out of it something new was born.
Archie did his part in the applause that greeted her, but it was the new and wonderful he applauded, not the old and dear.
His personal, proprietary pride in her was frozen out. He walked about the house during the _entr'acte_, and here and there among the people in the foyer he caught the name "Kronborg.
On the staircase, in front of the coffeeroom, a long-haired youth with a fat face was discoursing to a group of old women about "die Kronborg.
Dr. Archie gathered that he had crossed on the boat with her. After the performance was over, Archie took a taxi and started for Riverside Drive.
He meant to see it through to-night.
When he entered the reception hall of the hotel before which he had strolled that morning, the hall porter challenged him.
He said he was waiting for Miss Kronborg.
The porter looked at him suspiciously and asked whether he had an appointment.
He answered brazenly that he had.
He was not used to being questioned by hall boys.
Archie sat first in one tapestry chair and then in another, keeping a sharp eye on the people who came in and went up in the elevators.
He walked about and looked at his watch.
No one had come in from the street now for about twenty minutes, when two women entered, carrying a great many flowers and followed by a tall young man in chauffeur's uniform.
Archie advanced toward the taller of the two women, who was veiled and carried her head very firmly.
He confronted her just as she reached the elevator.
Although he did not stand directly in her way, something in his attitude compelled her to stop.
She gave him a piercing, defiant glance through the white scarf that covered her face.
Then she lifted her hand and brushed the scarf back from her head.
There was still black on her brows and lashes.
She was very pale and her face was drawn and deeply lined.
She looked, the doctor told himself with a sinking heart, forty years old.
Her suspicious, mystified stare cleared slowly. "Pardon me," the doctor murmured, not knowing just how to address her here before the porters, "I came up from the opera.
I merely wanted to say good-night to you." Without speaking, still looking incredulous, she pushed him into the elevator.
She kept her hand on his arm while the cage shot up, and she looked away from him, frowning, as if she were trying to remember or realize something.
Oh, I wanted to take my chance with you, like anybody else.
Forgive me, this time." He bent over and put his hand soothingly on her shoulder.
He felt a strong shudder run through her from head to foot. Still bundled in her fur coat as she was, she threw both arms about him and hugged him.
Oh, Dr. Archie, _Dr. Archie_,"-she shook him,-"don't let me go.
Hold on, now you're here," she laughed, breaking away from him at the same moment and sliding out of her fur coat.
She left it for the maid to pick up and pushed the doctor into the sitting-room, where she turned on the lights.
Let me _look_ at you.
Yes; hands, feet, head, shoulders-just the same.
She looked distinctly clipped and plucked.
Her hair was parted in the middle and done very close to her head, as she had worn it under the wig.
She looked like a fugitive, who had escaped from something in clothes caught up at hazard.
It flashed across Dr. Archie that she was running away from the other woman down at the opera house, who had used her hardly. He took a step toward her.
I can't tell a thing in the world about you, Thea-if I may still call you that." She took hold of the collar of his overcoat.
Do: I like to hear it.
You frighten me a little, but I expect I frighten you more.
I'm always a scarecrow after I sing a long part like that-so high, too.
She absently pulled out the handkerchief that protruded from his breast pocket and began to wipe the black paint off her eyebrows and lashes.
I can't take you in much to-night, but I must see you for a little while.
She pushed him to a chair.
I shall be more recognizable to-morrow.
You mustn't think of me as you see me to-night. Come at four to-morrow afternoon and have tea with me.
That's good." She sat down in a low chair beside him and leaned forward, drawing her shoulders together.
She seemed to him inappropriately young and inappropriately old, shorn of her long tresses at one end and of her long robes at the other. "How do you happen to be here?" she asked abruptly.
How can you leave a silver mine?
But you can explain everything tomorrow.
You remember how you sewed me up in a poultice, once?
I wish you could to-night.
I need a poultice, from top to toe.
Something very disagreeable happened down there.
You said you were out front?
Oh, don't say anything about it.
I always know exactly how it goes, unfortunately.
I was rotten in the balcony.
Probably not, but I did." Here the maid appeared at the door and her mistress rose.
My supper? Very well, I'll come.
I'd ask you to stay, doctor, but there wouldn't be enough for two.
They seldom send up enough for one,"-she spoke bitterly.
I haven't got a sense of you yet,"-turning directly to Archie again.
You've only announced yourself, and told me you are coming to-morrow.
You haven't seen me, either.
But I'll be here waiting for you to-morrow, my whole works! Goodnight, till then.
A moment later Fred's voice reached him over the telephone. "That you, Archie?
I'm having some supper and I'd like company.
I won't keep you long." Archie dropped his overcoat and set out for room 811.
He found Ottenburg in the act of touching a match to a chafing-dish, at a table laid for two in his sitting-room.
I'm catering here," he announced cheerfully.
I let the waiter off at midnight, after he'd set me up. You'll have to account for yourself, Archie." The doctor laughed, pointing to three wine-coolers under the table. "Are you expecting guests?" "Yes, two.
Ottenburg held up two fingers,-"you, and my higher self. He's a thirsty boy, and I don't invite him often.
He has been known to give me a headache.
Now, where have you been, Archie, until this shocking hour?" "Bah, you've been banting!" the doctor exclaimed, pulling out his white gloves as he searched for his handkerchief and throwing them into a chair.
Ottenburg was in evening clothes and very pointed dress shoes. His white waistcoat, upon which the doctor had fixed a challenging eye, went down straight from the top button, and he wore a camelia.
He was conspicuously brushed and trimmed and polished.
His smoothly controlled excitement was wholly different from his usual easy cordiality, though he had his face, as well as his figure, well in hand.
On the serving-table there was an empty champagne pint and a glass.
He had been having a little starter, the doctor told himself, and would probably be running on high gear before he got through.
There was even now an air of speed about him. "Been, Freddy?"-the doctor at last took up his question.
I expect I've been exactly where you have.
Why didn't you tell me you were coming on?" "I wasn't, Archie.
Fred lifted the cover of the chafingdish and stirred the contents.
He stood behind the table, holding the lid with his handkerchief.
I had never thought of such a thing.
But Landry, a young chap who plays her accompaniments and who keeps an eye out for me, telegraphed me that Madame Rheinecker had gone to Atlantic City with a bad throat, and Thea might have a chance to sing _Elsa_.
She has sung it only twice here before, and I missed it in Dresden.
I got in at four this afternoon and saw you registered, but I thought I wouldn't butt in. How lucky you got here just when she was coming on for this.
You couldn't have hit a better time.
Ottenburg stirred the contents of the dish faster and put in more sherry.
And where have you been since twelve o'clock, may I ask?" Archie looked rather self-conscious, as he sat down on a fragile gilt chair that rocked under him, and stretched out his long legs.
Well, if you'll believe me, I had the brutality to go to see her.
I wanted to identify her.
Couldn't wait." Ottenburg placed the cover quickly on the chafing-dish and took a step backward.
None but the brave deserve the fair.
Well,"-he stooped to turn the wine,-"and how was she?" "She seemed rather dazed, and pretty well used up.
She seemed disappointed in herself, and said she hadn't done herself justice in the balcony scene." "Well, if she didn't, she's not the first.
Beastly stuff to sing right in there; lies just on the 'break' in the voice.
Fred pulled a bottle out of the ice and drew the cork.
Lifting his glass he looked meaningly at Archie.
He drank off his glass with a sigh of satisfaction.
After he had turned the lamp low under the chafing-dish, he remained standing, looking pensively down at the food on the table.
Well, she rather pulled it off!
As a backer, you're a winner, Archie.
Fred poured himself another glass. "Now you must eat something, and so must I.
Here, get off that bird cage and find a steady chair.
This stuff ought to be rather good; head waiter's suggestion.
He bent over the chafing-dish and began to serve the contents.
Perfectly innocuous: mushrooms and truffles and a little crab-meat.
And now, on the level, Archie, how did it hit you?" Archie turned a frank smile to his friend and shook his head.
It was all miles beyond me, of course, but it gave me a pulse.
The general excitement got hold of me, I suppose.
I like your wine, Freddy.
He put down his glass.
It goes to the spot to-night.
She _was_ all right, then?
My dear Archie, that's the high voice we dream of; so pure and yet so virile and human.
That combination hardly ever happens with sopranos.
Ottenburg sat down and turned to the doctor, speaking calmly and trying to dispel his friend's manifest bewilderment.
You see, Archie, there's the voice itself, so beautiful and individual, and then there's something else; the thing in it which responds to every shade of thought and feeling, spontaneously, almost unconsciously.
That color has to be born in a singer, it can't be acquired; lots of beautiful voices haven't a vestige of it.
It's almost like another gift-the rarest of all.
The voice simply is the mind and is the heart. It can't go wrong in interpretation, because it has in it the thing that makes all interpretation.
That's why you feel so sure of her. After you've listened to her for an hour or so, you aren't afraid of anything.
All the little dreads you have with other artists vanish.
How satisfactory it must be, he thought, to really know what she was doing and not to have to take it on hearsay.
He took up his glass with a sigh.
I seem to need a good deal of cooling off to-night.
I'd just as lief forget the Reform Party for once. "Yes, Fred," he went on seriously; "I thought it sounded very beautiful, and I thought she was very beautiful, too.
I never imagined she could be as beautiful as that." "Wasn't she?
Every attitude a picture, and always the right kind of picture, full of that legendary, supernatural thing she gets into it.
I never heard the prayer sung like that before.
That look that came in her eyes; it went right out through the back of the roof.
Of course, you get an _Elsa_ who can look through walls like that, and visions and Grail-knights happen naturally.
She becomes an abbess, that girl, after _Lohengrin_ leaves her.
She's made to live with ideas and enthusiasms, not with a husband.
Fred folded his arms, leaned back in his chair, and began to sing softly:- "In lichter Waffen Scheine, Ein Ritter nahte da." "Doesn't she die, then, at the end?" the doctor asked guardedly. Fred smiled, reaching under the table.
Some _Elsas_ do; she didn't. She left me with the distinct impression that she was just beginning. Now, doctor, here's a cold one.
He twirled a napkin smoothly about the green glass, the cork gave and slipped out with a soft explosion.
And now we must have another toast.
It's up to you, this time." The doctor watched the agitation in his glass.
The same," he said without lifting his eyes.
I can't raise you." Fred leaned forward, and looked sharply into his face.
That's the point; how _could_ you raise me?
Once again!" "Once again, and always the same!
The doctor put down his glass.
This doesn't seem to produce any symptoms in me to-night.
He lit a cigar. "Seriously, Freddy, I wish I knew more about what she's driving at.
It makes me jealous, when you are so in it and I'm not." "In it?
My God, haven't you seen her this blessed night?-when she'd have kicked any other man down the elevator shaft, if I know her.
Leave me something; at least what I can pay my five bucks for." "Seems to me you get a good deal for your five bucks," said Archie ruefully.
And that, after all, is what she cares about,-what people get." Fred lit a cigarette, took a puff or two, and then threw it away.
He was lounging back in his chair, and his face was pale and drawn hard by that mood of intense concentration which lurks under the sunny shallows of the vineyard.
In his voice there was a longer perspective than usual, a slight remoteness.
You see, Archie, it's all very simple, a natural development.
It's exactly what Mahler said back there in the beginning, when she sang _Woglinde_.
It's the idea, the basic idea, pulsing behind every bar she sings.
She simplifies a character down to the musical idea it's built on, and makes everything conform to that. The people who chatter about her being a great actress don't seem to get the notion of where _she_ gets the notion.
It all goes back to her original endowment, her tremendous musical talent.
Instead of inventing a lot of business and expedients to suggest character, she knows the thing at the root, and lets the musical pattern take care of her.
The score pours her into all those lovely postures, makes the light and shadow go over her face, lifts her and drops her.
She lies on it, the way she used to lie on the Rhine music.
Talk about rhythm!" The doctor frowned dubiously as a third bottle made its appearance above the cloth.
Aren't you going in rather strong?" Fred laughed.
No, I'm becoming too sober.
You see this is breakfast now; kind of wedding breakfast.
But it isn't every fellow who can see-well, what we saw tonight.
There are compensations in life, Dr. Howard Archie, though they come in disguise.
Did you notice her when she came down the stairs?
Wonder where she gets that bright-and-morning star look?
Carries to the last row of the family circle.
I moved about all over the house.
I'll tell you a secret, Archie: that carrying power was one of the first things that put me wise.
Noticed it down there in Arizona, in the open.
That, I said, belongs only to the big ones.
Fred got up and began to move rhythmically about the room, his hands in his pockets.
The doctor was astonished at his ease and steadiness, for there were slight lapses in his speech.
You see, Archie, _Elsa_ isn't a part that's particularly suited to Thea's voice at all, as I see her voice.
She makes it, but there's nothing in it that fits her like a glove, except, maybe, that long duet in the third act.
There, of course,"-he held out his hands as if he were measuring something,-"we know exactly where we are.
But wait until they give her a chance at something that lies properly in her voice, and you'll see me rosier than I am to-night." Archie smoothed the tablecloth with his hand.
I am sure I don't want to see you any rosier, Fred." Ottenburg threw back his head and laughed.
It's enthusiasm, doctor. It's not the wine.
I've got as much inflated as this for a dozen trashy things: brewers' dinners and political orgies.
You, too, have your extravagances, Archie.
And what I like best in you is this particular enthusiasm, which is not at all practical or sensible, which is downright Quixotic.
You are not altogether what you seem, and you have your reservations.
Living among the wolves, you have not become one. _Lupibus vivendi non lupus sum_." The doctor seemed embarrassed.
I was just thinking how tired she looked, plucked of all her fine feathers, while we get all the fun. Instead of sitting here carousing, we ought to go solemnly to bed." "I get your idea.
Ottenburg crossed to the window and threw it open. "Fine night outside; a hag of a moon just setting.
It begins to smell like morning.
After all, Archie, think of the lonely and rather solemn hours we've spent waiting for all this, while she's been-reveling." Archie lifted his brows.
I somehow didn't get the idea to-night that she revels much." "I don't mean this sort of thing.
Fred turned toward the light and stood with his back to the window.
That," with a nod toward the wine-cooler, "is only a cheap imitation, that any poor stiff-fingered fool can buy and feel his shell grow thinner.
But take it from me, no matter what she pays, or how much she may see fit to lie about it, the real, the master revel is hers.
He leaned back against the window sill and crossed his arms.
Anybody with all that voice and all that talent and all that beauty, has her hour.
Even I can say to-night, Archie," he brought out slowly, "'As in my dream I dreamed it, As in my will it was.' Now, doctor, you may leave me.
I'm beautifully drunk, but not with anything that ever grew in France." The doctor rose.
Fred tossed his flower out of the window behind him and came toward the door.
I say," he called, "have you a date with anybody?" The doctor paused, his hand on the knob.
If she ducks me, you tell her for me, that to spite me now she'd have to cut off more than she can spare.
Good-night, Archie." VI It was late on the morning after the night she sang _Elsa_, when Thea Kronborg stirred uneasily in her bed.
The room was darkened by two sets of window shades, and the day outside was thick and cloudy.
She turned and tried to recapture unconsciousness, knowing that she would not be able to do so.
She dreaded waking stale and disappointed after a great effort.
The first thing that came was always the sense of the futility of such endeavor, and of the absurdity of trying too hard.
Up to a certain point, say eighty degrees, artistic endeavor could be fat and comfortable, methodical and prudent.
But if you went further than that, if you drew yourself up toward ninety degrees, you parted with your defenses and left yourself exposed to mischance.
The legend was that in those upper reaches you might be divine; but you were much likelier to be ridiculous.
Your public wanted just about eighty degrees; if you gave it more it blew its nose and put a crimp in you.
In the morning, especially, it seemed to her very probable that whatever struggled above the good average was not quite sound.
Certainly very little of that superfluous ardor, which cost so dear, ever got across the footlights.
These misgivings waited to pounce upon her when she wakened.
They hovered about her bed like vultures. She reached under her pillow for her handkerchief, without opening her eyes.
She had a shadowy memory that there was to be something unusual, that this day held more disquieting possibilities than days commonly held.
There was something she dreaded; what was it?
After all, why had he come?
It had been so long, and so much had happened.
The things she had lost, he would miss readily enough. What she had gained, he would scarcely perceive.
He, and all that he recalled, lived for her as memories.
In sleep, and in hours of illness or exhaustion, she went back to them and held them to her heart.
But they were better as memories.
They had nothing to do with the struggle that made up her actual life.
She rose and ran up the window shades and turned on the water in her bathroom, glancing into the mirror apprehensively as she passed it.
Her bath usually cheered her, even on low mornings like this.
Her white bathroom, almost as large as her sleeping-room, she regarded as a refuge.
When she turned the key behind her, she left care and vexation on the other side of the door.
She slid into the tub with anticipation and splashed and tumbled about a good deal.
Whatever else she hurried, she never hurried her bath.
She used her brushes and sponges and soaps like toys, fairly playing in the water.
Her own body was always a cheering sight to her.
When she was careworn, when her mind felt old and tired, the freshness of her physical self, her long, firm lines, the smoothness of her skin, reassured her.
This morning, because of awakened memories, she looked at herself more carefully than usual, and was not discouraged.
While she was in the tub she began to whistle softly the tenor aria, "_Ah!
Fuyez, douce image_," somehow appropriate to the bath.
After a noisy moment under the cold shower, she stepped out on the rug flushed and glowing, threw her arms above her head, and rose on her toes, keeping the elevation as long as she could.
When she dropped back on her heels and began to rub herself with the towels, she took up the aria again, and felt quite in the humor for seeing Dr. Archie.
Thea was sitting in a davenport behind the piano, talking to a young man whom she later introduced as her friend Mr. Landry.
As she rose, and came to meet him, Archie felt a deep relief, a sudden thankfulness.
She no longer looked clipped and plucked, or dazed and fleeing. Dr. Archie neglected to take account of the young man to whom he was presented.
He kept Thea's hands and held her where he met her, taking in the light, lively sweep of her hair, her clear green eyes and her throat that came up strong and dazzlingly white from her green velvet gown.
The chin was as lovely as ever, the cheeks as smooth.
All the lines of last night had disappeared.
Only at the outer corners of her eyes, between the eye and the temple, were the faintest indications of a future attack-mere kitten scratches that playfully hinted where one day the cat would claw her.
Mr. Landry knows all about you, Dr. Archie.
He has known about you for many years.
While the two men shook hands she stood between them, drawing them together by her presence and her glances.
When I first went to Germany, Landry was studying there.
He used to be good enough to work with me when I could not afford to have an accompanist for more than two hours a day.
We got into the way of working together.
He is a singer, too, and has his own career to look after, but he still manages to give me some time.
I want you to be friends.
They evidently did not expect as much as I did. _Elsa_ is not really in my voice.
Thea turned to the doctor with interest.
They were from him, then-some flowers that came last night without a card.
She indicated the white lilacs on the window sill.
Yes, he would know, certainly," she said thoughtfully. "Why don't we sit down?
There will be some tea for you in a minute, Landry.
He's very dependent upon it," disapprovingly to Archie.
Now tell me, Doctor, did you really have a good time last night, or were you uncomfortable?
Did you feel as if I were trying to hold my hat on by my eyebrows?" He smiled.
I had all kinds of a time.
But I had no feeling of that sort.
I couldn't be quite sure that it was you at all.
That was why I came up here last night.
I felt as if I'd lost you." She leaned toward him and brushed his sleeve reassuringly.
Then I didn't give you an impression of painful struggle?
Landry was singing at Weber and Fields' last night.
He didn't get in until the performance was half over.
But I see the _Tribune_ man felt that I was working pretty hard.
Did you see that notice, Oliver?" Dr. Archie looked closely at the red-headed young man for the first time, and met his lively brown eyes, full of a droll, confiding sort of humor.
Mr. Landry was not prepossessing.
He was undersized and clumsily made, with a red, shiny face and a sharp little nose that looked as if it had been whittled out of wood and was always in the air, on the scent of something.
Yet it was this queer little beak, with his eyes, that made his countenance anything of a face at all.
From a distance he looked like the groceryman's delivery boy in a small town.
He went to the writing-table and took up the receiver.
Mr. Ottenburg is downstairs," he said, turning to Thea and holding the mouthpiece against his coat. "Tell him to come up," she replied without hesitation.
How long are you going to be in town, Dr. Archie?" "Oh, several weeks, if you'll let me stay.
I won't hang around and be a burden to you, but I want to try to get educated up to you, though I expect it's late to begin." Thea rose and touched him lightly on the shoulder.
He was still pale and looked somewhat chastened, and the lock of hair that hung down over his forehead was distinctly moist.
But his black afternoon coat, his gray tie and gaiters were of a correctness that Dr. Archie could never attain for all the efforts of his faithful slave, Van Deusen, the Denver haberdasher.
To be properly up to those tricks, the doctor supposed, you had to learn them young.
You know Mr. Ottenburg, he tells me?" Mr. Landry's eyes twinkled.
Yes, I regularly follow him about, when he's in town.
The tea-table was in the parlor.
Thea drew Ottenburg with her and went to inspect it.
Oh, yes, in that thing!
Everything seems to be here, but send up some currant preserves and cream cheese for Mr. Ottenburg.
And in about fifteen minutes, bring some fresh toast.
That's all, thank you." For the next few minutes there was a clatter of teacups and responses about sugar.
I'm glad the rest of you don't. I'm sure it's bad.
Thea poured the tea standing and got through with it as quickly as possible, as if it were a refreshment snatched between trains.
The tea-table and the little room in which it stood seemed to be out of scale with her long step, her long reach, and the energy of her movements.
Dr. Archie, standing near her, was pleasantly aware of the animation of her figure.
Under the clinging velvet, her body seemed independent and unsubdued. They drifted, with their plates and cups, back to the music-room.
When Thea followed them, Ottenburg put down his tea suddenly.
He started back to the table. "No, thank you, nothing.
I'm going to run over that aria for you presently, to convince you that I can do it.
How did the duet go, with Schlag?" She was standing in the doorway and Fred came up to her: "That you'll never do any better.
You've worked your voice into it perfectly.
She gave him a sidelong glance and spoke with a certain gruff shyness which did not deceive anybody, and was not meant to deceive.
The tone was equivalent to "Keep it up.
I like it, but I'm awkward with it." Fred held her by the door and did keep it up, furiously, for full five minutes.
She took it with some confusion, seeming all the while to be hesitating, to be arrested in her course and trying to pass him.
But she did not really try to pass, and her color deepened.
Fred spoke in German, and Archie caught from her an occasional _Ja?
So?_ muttered rather than spoken. When they rejoined Landry and Dr. Archie, Fred took up his tea again. "I see you're singing _Venus_ Saturday night.
Will they never let you have a chance at _Elizabeth?_" She shrugged her shoulders.
There are so many singers here, and they try us out in such a stingy way.
Think of it, last year I came over in October, and it was the first of December before I went on at all!
I'm often sorry I left Dresden." "Still," Fred argued, "Dresden is limited." "Just so, and I've begun to sigh for those very limitations.
In New York everything is impersonal.
Your audience never knows its own mind, and its mind is never twice the same.
I'd rather sing where the people are pig-headed and throw carrots at you if you don't do it the way they like it.
The house here is splendid, and the night audiences are exciting.
I hate the matinees; like singing at a _Kaffeklatsch_.
She rose and turned on the lights. "Ah!
Fred exclaimed, "why do you do that?
That is a signal that tea is over.
He got up and drew out his gloves. "Not at all.
Shall you be here Saturday night?
She sat down on the piano bench and leaned her elbow back on the keyboard.
Everything she sings is worth hearing." "But she's failing so.
The last time I heard her she had no voice at all.
She _is_ a poor vocalist!" Thea cut him off.
She's a great artist, whether she's in voice or not, and she's the only one here.
If you want a big voice, you can take my _Ortrude_ of last night; that's big enough, and vulgar enough." Fred laughed and turned away, this time with decision.
I don't want her!" he protested energetically.
I only wanted to get a rise out of you.
I like Necker's _Elizabeth_ well enough.
I like your _Venus_ well enough, too." "It's a beautiful part, and it's often dreadfully sung.
It's very hard to sing, of course." Ottenburg bent over the hand she held out to him.
For an uninvited guest, I've fared very well.
You were nice to let me come up.
I'd have been terribly cut up if you'd sent me away.
He kissed her hand lightly and backed toward the door, still smiling, and promising to keep an eye on Archie.
He can't be trusted at all, Thea.
One of the waiters at Martin's worked a Tourainian hare off on him at luncheon yesterday, for seven twenty-five." Thea broke into a laugh, the deep one he recognized.
Did he have a ribbon on, this hare?
Did they bring him in a gilt cage?" "No,"-Archie spoke up for himself,-"they brought him in a brown sauce, which was very good.
He didn't taste very different from any rabbit." "Probably came from a push-cart on the East Side.
Thea looked at her old friend commiseratingly.
Yes, _do_ keep an eye on him, Fred.
I had no idea," shaking her head.
Yes, I'll be obliged to you." "Count on me!
You ought to hear him, Dr. Archie.
He often sings the old Scotch airs you used to love." "Why not go down this evening?
Fred suggested hopefully, glancing at his watch.
That is, if you'd like to go.
I can telephone and find what time he comes on." Thea hesitated.
I took a long walk this afternoon and I'm rather tired.
I think I can get to sleep early and be so much ahead.
I don't mean at once, however," seeing Dr. Archie's disappointed look.
I always like to hear Landry," she added.
He never had much voice, and it's worn, but there's a sweetness about it, and he sings with such taste." "Yes, doesn't he?
Fred took out his cigarette case.
It really doesn't bother your throat?" "A little doesn't.
Like the best English ballad singers.
He can sing even popular stuff by higher lights, as it were." Thea nodded.
Yes; sometimes I make him sing his most foolish things for me.
It's restful, as he does it.
That's when I'm homesick, Dr. Archie." "You knew him in Germany, Thea?
Dr. Archie had quietly abandoned his cigarette as a comfortless article.
When you first went over?" "Yes.
He was a good friend to a green girl.
He helped me with my German and my music and my general discouragement.
Seemed to care more about my getting on than about himself.
He had no money, either.
An old aunt had loaned him a little to study on.-Will you answer that, Fred?" Fred caught up the telephone and stopped the buzz while Thea went on talking to Dr. Archie about Landry.
Telling some one to hold the wire, he presently put down the instrument and approached Thea with a startled expression on his face. "It's the management," he said quietly.
Gloeckler has broken down: fainting fits.
Madame Rheinecker is in Atlantic City and Schramm is singing in Philadelphia tonight.
They want to know whether you can come down and finish _Sieglinde_." "What time is it?" "Eight fifty-five.
The first act is just over.
They can hold the curtain twenty-five minutes." Thea did not move.
Twenty-five and thirty-five makes sixty," she muttered.
Tell them I'll come if they hold the curtain till I am in the dressing-room.
Say I'll have to wear her costumes, and the dresser must have everything ready.
Then call a taxi, please." Thea had not changed her position since he first interrupted her, but she had grown pale and was opening and shutting her hands rapidly.
She looked, Fred thought, terrified.
He half turned toward the telephone, but hung on one foot. "Have you ever sung the part?" he asked. "No, but I've rehearsed it.
Still she made no move.
And I let my maid go out.
She sprang up and beckoned Archie without so much, he felt sure, as knowing who he was.
She went quickly into her sleeping-chamber and threw open a door into a trunk-room.
It's full of wigs, in boxes.
Look until you find one marked 'Ring 2.
While she directed him, she threw open a square trunk and began tossing out shoes of every shape and color. Ottenburg appeared at the door.
Can I help you?" She threw him some white sandals with long laces and silk stockings pinned to them.
Put those in something, and then go to the piano and give me a few measures in there-you know.
Her glassy eye took in the fact that Fred was playing from memory, and even in her distracted state, a faint smile flickered over her colorless lips.
She stretched out a woolly hand, "The score, please.
Behind you, there." Dr. Archie followed with a canvas box and a satchel.
As they went through the hall, the men caught up their hats and coats.
They left the music-room, Fred noticed, just seven minutes after he got the telephone message.
In the elevator Thea said in that husky whisper which had so perplexed Dr. Archie when he first heard it, "Tell the driver he must do it in twenty minutes, less if he can.
He must leave the light on in the cab.
I can do a good deal in twenty minutes.
If only you hadn't made me eat-Damn that duck!" she broke out bitterly; "why did you?" "Wish I had it back!
But it won't bother you, to-night.
You need strength," he pleaded consolingly. But she only muttered angrily under her breath, "Idiot, idiot!" Ottenburg shot ahead and instructed the driver, while the doctor put Thea into the cab and shut the door.
She did not speak to either of them again.
As the driver scrambled into his seat she opened the score and fixed her eyes upon it.
Her face, in the white light, looked as bleak as a stone quarry. As her cab slid away, Ottenburg shoved Archie into a second taxi that waited by the curb.
We'd better trail her," he explained.
There might be a hold-up of some kind.
As the cab whizzed off he broke into an eruption of profanity. "What's the matter, Fred?" the doctor asked.
He was a good deal dazed by the rapid evolutions of the last ten minutes. "Matter enough!
Fred growled, buttoning his overcoat with a shiver. "What a way to sing a part for the first time!
That duck really is on my conscience.
It will be a wonder if she can do anything but quack! Scrambling on in the middle of a performance like this, with no rehearsal!
The stuff she has to sing in there is a fright-rhythm, pitch,-and terribly difficult intervals." "She looked frightened," Dr. Archie said thoughtfully, "but I thought she looked-determined." Fred sniffed.
That's the kind of rough deal that makes savages of singers.
Here's a part she's worked on and got ready for for years, and now they give her a chance to go on and butcher it.
Goodness knows when she's looked at the score last, or whether she can use the business she's studied with this cast.
Dr. Archie asked wonderingly. "My dear man, Necker's sore at everything.
She's breaking up; too early; just when she ought to be at her best.
There's one story that she is struggling under some serious malady, another that she learned a bad method at the Prague Conservatory and has ruined her organ.
She's the sorest thing in the world.
If she weathers this winter through, it'll be her last.
She's paying for it with the last rags of her voice. And then-" Fred whistled softly. "Well, what then?" "Then our girl may come in for some of it.
It's dog eat dog, in this game as in every other." The cab stopped and Fred and Dr. Archie hurried to the box office.
The Monday-night house was sold out.
This announcement was met with vehement applause from the upper circles of the house. "She has her-constituents," Dr. Archie murmured. "Yes, up there, where they're young and hungry.
These people down here have dined too well.
They like fires and accidents and _divertissements_.
Two _Sieglindes_ are more unusual than one, so they'll be satisfied." After the final disappearance of the mother of Siegfried, Ottenburg and the doctor slipped out through the crowd and left the house.
Near the stage entrance Fred found the driver who had brought Thea down.
He dismissed him and got a larger car.
He and Archie waited on the sidewalk, and when Kronborg came out alone they gathered her into the cab and sprang in after her. Thea sank back into a corner of the back seat and yawned.
Well, I got through, eh?
On the whole, I think I've given you gentlemen a pretty lively evening, for one who has no social accomplishments." "Rather!
There was something like a popular uprising at the end of the second act.
Archie and I couldn't keep it up as long as the rest of them did.
A howl like that ought to show the management which way the wind is blowing.
You probably know you were magnificent." "I thought it went pretty well," she spoke impartially.
I was rather smart to catch his tempo there, at the beginning of the first recitative, when he came in too soon, don't you think?
It's tricky in there, without a rehearsal.
Oh, I was all right!
He took that syncopation too fast in the beginning.
Some singers take it fast there-think it sounds more impassioned.
She sniffed, and Fred shot a mirthful glance at Archie.
Her boastfulness would have been childish in a schoolboy.
In the light of what she had done, of the strain they had lived through during the last two hours, it made one laugh,-almost cry.
She went on, robustly: "And I didn't feel my dinner, really, Fred.
I am hungry again, I'm ashamed to say,-and I forgot to order anything at my hotel." Fred put his hand on the door.
You must have food." "Do you know any quiet place, where I won't be stared at?
I've still got make-up on." "I do.
Nice English chop-house on Forty-fourth Street.
Nobody there at night but theater people after the show, and a few bachelors.
When I was little I always loved your handkerchiefs because they were silk and smelled of Cologne water.
I think they must have been the only really clean handkerchiefs in Moonstone.
You were always wiping my face with them, when you met me out in the dust, I remember. Did I never have any?" "I think you'd nearly always used yours up on your baby brother." Thea sighed.
Yes, Thor had such a way of getting messy.
You say he's a good chauffeur?
She closed her eyes for a moment as if they were tired.
Isn't it funny, how we travel in circles?
Here you are, still getting me clean, and Fred is still feeding me.
I would have died of starvation at that boarding-house on Indiana Avenue if he hadn't taken me out to the Buckingham and filled me up once in a while.
What a cavern I was to fill, too.
The waiters used to look astonished.
I'm still singing on that food." Fred alighted and gave Thea his arm as they crossed the icy sidewalk. They were taken upstairs in an antiquated lift and found the cheerful chop-room half full of supper parties.
An English company playing at the Empire had just come in. The waiters, in red waistcoats, were hurrying about.
Then grilled chops with kidneys, and salad." Thea began eating celery stalks at once, from the base to the foliage. "Necker said something nice to me tonight.
You might have thought the management would say something, but not they.
She looked at Fred from under her blackened lashes.
It _was_ a stunt, to jump in and sing that second act without rehearsal.
It doesn't sing itself." Ottenburg was watching her brilliant eyes and her face.
She was much handsomer than she had been early in the evening.
Excitement of this sort enriched her.
It was only under such excitement, he reflected, that she was entirely illuminated, or wholly present.
At other times there was something a little cold and empty, like a big room with no people in it.
Even in her most genial moods there was a shadow of restlessness, as if she were waiting for something and were exercising the virtue of patience.
During dinner she had been as kind as she knew how to be, to him and to Archie, and had given them as much of herself as she could.
But, clearly, she knew only one way of being really kind, from the core of her heart out; and there was but one way in which she could give herself to people largely and gladly, spontaneously.
Even as a girl she had been at her best in vigorous effort, he remembered; physical effort, when there was no other kind at hand.
She could be expansive only in explosions.
Old Nathanmeyer had seen it.
In the very first song Fred had ever heard her sing, she had unconsciously declared it. Thea Kronborg turned suddenly from her talk with Archie and peered suspiciously into the corner where Ottenburg sat with folded arms, observing her.
What's the matter with you, Fred?
I'm afraid of you when you're quiet,-fortunately you almost never are.
What are you thinking about?" "I was wondering how you got right with the orchestra so quickly, there at first.
I had a flash of terror," he replied easily. She bolted her last oyster and ducked her head.
I don't know how I did catch it.
Desperation, I suppose; same way the Indian babies swim when they're thrown into the river.
Now it's over, I'm glad I had to.
Why didn't you tell me?
And I seem to be wearing a rumpled dinner dress, with all this paint on my face!
I must look like something you picked up on Second Avenue.
I hope there are no Colorado reformers about, Dr. Archie.
What a dreadful old pair these people must be thinking you!
Well, I had to eat.
She sniffed the savor of the grill as the waiter uncovered it.
Yes, draught beer, please. No, thank you, Fred, _no_ champagne.-To go back to your question, Dr. Archie, you can believe I keep my mind on it.
That's the whole trick, in so far as stage experience goes; keeping right there every second. If I think of anything else for a flash, I'm gone, done for.
But at the same time, one can take things in-with another part of your brain, maybe.
It's different from what you get in study, more practical and conclusive.
There are some things you learn best in calm, and some in storm.
You learn the delivery of a part only before an audience." "Heaven help us," gasped Ottenburg.
It's beautiful to see you eat." "Glad you like it.
Are you staying over for 'Rheingold' Friday afternoon?" "My dear Thea,"-Fred lit a cigarette,-"I'm a serious business man now. I have to sell beer.
I'm due in Chicago on Wednesday.
I'd come back to hear you, but _Fricka_ is not an alluring part." "Then you've never heard it well done.
Fat German woman scolding her husband, eh?
Wait till you hear my _Fricka_.
Thea leaned forward on the table and touched Archie's arm.
You remember, Dr. Archie, how my mother always wore her hair, parted in the middle and done low on her neck behind, so you got the shape of her head and such a calm, white forehead?
I wear mine like that for _Fricka_.
A little more coronet effect, built up a little higher at the sides, but the idea's the same. I think you'll notice it.
She turned to Ottenburg reproachfully: "It's noble music, Fred, from the first measure.
There's nothing lovelier than the _wonniger Hausrath_.
It's all such comprehensive sort of music-fateful.
Of course, _Fricka knows_," Thea ended quietly. Fred sighed.
There, you've spoiled my itinerary.
Now I'll have to come back, of course.
Archie, you'd better get busy about seats to-morrow." "I can get you box seats, somewhere.
I know nobody here, and I never ask for any.
Thea began hunting among her wraps.
I've only these short woolen gloves, and no sleeves.
Put on my coat first. Those English people can't make out where you got your lady, she's so made up of contradictions.
She rose laughing and plunged her arms into the coat Dr. Archie held for her.
As she settled herself into it and buttoned it under her chin, she gave him an old signal with her eyelid. "I'd like to sing another part to-night.
This is the sort of evening I fancy, when there's something to do.
Let me see: I have to sing in 'Trovatore' Wednesday night, and there are rehearsals for the 'Ring' every day this week.
Consider me dead until Saturday, Dr. Archie.
I invite you both to dine with me on Saturday night, the day after 'Rheingold.
And Fred must leave early, for I want to talk to you alone.
After the first of these performances, Fred Ottenburg went home with Landry for tea.
Landry was one of the few public entertainers who own real estate in New York.
His father was an ignorant, violent man, a bungling farmer and a brutal husband.
The farmhouse, dilapidated and damp, stood in a hollow beside a marshy pond.
It was as if the farm, knowing he would escape from it as early as he could, had ground its mark on him deep.
When he was fifteen Oliver ran away and went to live with his Catholic aunt, on Jane Street, whom his mother was never allowed to visit.
The priest of St. Joseph's Parish discovered that he had a voice. Landry had an affection for the house on Jane Street, where he had first learned what cleanliness and order and courtesy were.
When his aunt died he had the place done over, got an Irish housekeeper, and lived there with a great many beautiful things he had collected.
His living expenses were never large, but he could not restrain himself from buying graceful and useless objects.
He had a beautiful collection of old French and Spanish fans.
One side was painted with a pearly sky and floating clouds.
On the other was a formal garden where an elegant shepherdess with a mask and crook was fleeing on high heels from a satin-coated shepherd. "You ought not to keep these things about, like this, Oliver.
The dust from your grate must get at them." "It does, but I get them to enjoy them, not to have them.
They're pleasant to glance at and to play with at odd times like this, when one is waiting for tea or something." Fred smiled.
The idea of Landry stretched out before his fire playing with his fans, amused him.
I don't see how you can stand this place without a heroine.
It would give me a raging thirst for gallantries." Landry was helping himself to a second cup of tea.
Works quite the other way with me.
It consoles me for the lack of her.
It's just feminine enough to be pleasant to return to.
Then sit down and play for me.
I'm always playing for other people, and I never have a chance to sit here quietly and listen." Ottenburg opened the piano and began softly to boom forth the shadowy introduction to the opera they had just heard.
Will that do?" he asked jokingly.
I can't seem to get it out of my head." "Oh, excellently!
Thea told me it was quite wonderful, the way you can do Wagner scores on the piano.
So few people can give one any idea of the music.
Go ahead, as long as you like.
Landry flattened himself out on his cushions and abandoned himself to ease with the circumstance of one who has never grown quite accustomed to ease. Ottenburg played on, as he happened to remember.
He understood now why Thea wished him to hear her in "Rheingold.
The _Fricka_ of that afternoon was so clear and sunny, so nobly conceived, that she made a whole atmosphere about herself and quite redeemed from shabbiness the helplessness and unscrupulousness of the gods.
Her reproaches to _Wotan_ were the pleadings of a tempered mind, a consistent sense of beauty.
In the long silences of her part, her shining presence was a visible complement to the discussion of the orchestra.
I can't seem to get the voices, in there." Landry chuckled.
I know it well enough.
I expect I've been over that with her a thousand times.
I was playing for her almost every day when she was first working on it.
When she begins with a part she's hard to work with: so slow you'd think she was stupid if you didn't know her.
Of course she blames it all on her accompanist.
It goes on like that for weeks sometimes.
She kept shaking her head and staring and looking gloomy.
All at once, she got her line-it usually comes suddenly, after stretches of not getting anywhere at all-and after that it kept changing and clearing.
As she worked her voice into it, it got more and more of that 'gold' quality that makes her _Fricka_ so different." Fred began _Fricka's_ first aria again.
It's certainly different. Curious how she does it.
Such a beautiful idea, out of a part that's always been so ungrateful.
She's a lovely thing, but she was never so beautiful as that, really.
He repeated the loveliest phrase.
How does she manage it, Landry?
You've worked with her." Landry drew cherishingly on the last cigarette he meant to permit himself before singing.
Oh, it's a question of a big personality-and all that goes with it.
But the important thing is that she was born full of color, with a rich personality.
That's a gift of the gods, like a fine nose.
You have it, or you haven't.
Against it, intelligence and musicianship and habits of industry don't count at all.
Singers are a conventional race.
When Thea was studying in Berlin the other girls were mortally afraid of her.
She has a pretty rough hand with women, dull ones, and she could be rude, too!
Of course, even a stupid woman could get effects with such machinery: such a voice and body and face.
But they couldn't possibly belong to a stupid woman, could they?" Landry shook his head.
It's personality; that's as near as you can come to it.
That's what constitutes real equipment.
What she does is interesting because she does it.
Even the things she discards are suggestive.
I regret some of them.
Her conceptions are colored in so many different ways.
You've heard her _Elizabeth?_ Wonderful, isn't it? She was working on that part years ago when her mother was ill. I could see her anxiety and grief getting more and more into the part.
The last act is heart-breaking.
It's as homely as a country prayer meeting: might be any lonely woman getting ready to die.
It's full of the thing every plain creature finds out for himself, but that never gets written down.
It's unconscious memory, maybe; inherited memory, like folk-music.
I call it personality." Fred laughed, and turning to the piano began coaxing the _Fricka_ music again.
Call it anything you like, my boy.
I have a name for it myself, but I shan't tell you.
He looked over his shoulder at Landry, stretched out by the fire.
You have a great time watching her, don't you?" "Oh, yes!" replied Landry simply.
I'm not interested in much that goes on in New York.
Now, if you'll excuse me, I'll have to dress.
He rose with a reluctant sigh.
Can I get you anything?
Some whiskey?" "Thank you, no. I'll amuse myself here.
I don't often get a chance at a good piano when I'm away from home.
You haven't had this one long, have you?
I say," he stopped Landry in the doorway, "has Thea ever been down here?" Landry turned back.
She came several times when I had erysipelas. I was a nice mess, with two nurses.
She brought down some inside window-boxes, planted with crocuses and things.
Very cheering, only I couldn't see them or her." "Didn't she like your place?" "She thought she did, but I fancy it was a good deal cluttered up for her taste.
I could hear her pacing about like something in a cage.
She pushed the piano back against the wall and the chairs into corners, and she broke my amber elephant.
Landry took a yellow object some four inches high from one of his low bookcases.
You can see where his leg is glued on,-a souvenir.
Yes, he's lemon amber, very fine." Landry disappeared behind the curtains and in a moment Fred heard the wheeze of an atomizer.
As they were going up in the elevator after dinner, Fred turned suddenly to Thea.
And why, please, did you break Landry's amber elephant?" She looked guilty and began to laugh.
Hasn't he got over that yet?
I didn't really mean to break it.
His things are so over-petted that I was tempted to be careless with a lot of them." "How can you be so heartless, when they're all he has in the world?" "He has me.
He's such a catnip man." Dr. Archie laughed, but Thea, who seemed suddenly to have thought of something annoying, repeated blankly, "Catnip man?" "Yes, he lives on catnip, and rum tea.
But he's not the only one.
You are like an eccentric old woman I know in Boston, who goes about in the spring feeding catnip to street cats.
You dispense it to a lot of fellows.
Your pull seems to be more with men than with women, you know; with seasoned men, about my age, or older.
Even on Friday afternoon I kept running into them, old boys I hadn't seen for years, thin at the part and thick at the girth, until I stood still in the draft and held my hair on.
They're always there; I hear them talking about you in the smoking room.
Probably we don't get to the point of apprehending anything good until we're about forty.
Then, in the light of what is going, and of what, God help us! is coming, we arrive at understanding." "I don't see why people go to the opera, anyway,-serious people.
I suppose they get something, or think they do. Here's the coffee.
There, please," she directed the waiter.
Going to the table she began to pour the coffee, standing.
She poured the coffee as if it were a ceremony in which she did not believe.
Can you make anything of Fred's nonsense, Dr. Archie?" she asked, as he came to take his cup. Fred approached her.
My nonsense is all right.
The same brand has gone with you before.
It's you who won't be jollied.
You have something on your mind." "I've a good deal.
Too much to be an agreeable hostess.
She turned quickly away from the coffee and sat down on the piano bench, facing the two men.
For one thing, there's a change in the cast for Friday afternoon.
They're going to let me sing _Sieglinde_.
Her frown did not conceal the pleasure with which she made this announcement. "Are you going to keep us dangling about here forever, Thea?
Archie and I are supposed to have other things to do.
I don't know what their plans are down there.
After Friday they may let me cool for several weeks, and they may rush me.
I suppose it depends somewhat on how things go Friday afternoon." "Oh, they'll go fast enough!
That's better suited to your voice than anything you've sung here.
That gives you every opportunity I've waited for.
Ottenburg crossed the room and standing beside her began to play "_Du bist der Lenz_." With a violent movement Thea caught his wrists and pushed his hands away from the keys. "Fred, can't you be serious?
A thousand things may happen between this and Friday to put me out.
If that part were sung well, as well as it ought to be, it would be one of the most beautiful things in the world.
That's why it never is sung right, and never will be.
She clenched her hands and opened them despairingly, looking out of the open window.
It's inaccessibly beautiful!" she brought out sharply. Fred and Dr. Archie watched her.
In a moment she turned back to them. "It's impossible to sing a part like that well for the first time, except for the sort who will never sing it any better.
Everything hangs on that first night, and that's bound to be bad.
There you are," she shrugged impatiently.
For one thing, they change the cast at the eleventh hour and then rehearse the life out of me." Ottenburg put down his cup with exaggerated care.
Still, you really want to do it, you know." "Want to?" she repeated indignantly; "of course I want to!
If this were only next Thursday night-But between now and Friday I'll do nothing but fret away my strength.
Oh, I'm not saying I don't need the rehearsals! But I don't need them strung out through a week.
That system's well enough for phlegmatic singers; it only drains me.
Every single feature of operatic routine is detrimental to me.
I usually go on like a horse that's been fixed to lose a race.
I have to work hard to do my worst, let alone my best.
I wish you could hear me sing well, once," she turned to Fred defiantly; "I have, a few times in my life, when there was nothing to gain by it." Fred approached her again and held out his hand.
I recall my instructions, and now I'll leave you to fight it out with Archie.
He can't possibly represent managerial stupidity to you as I seem to have a gift for doing." As he smiled down at her, his good humor, his good wishes, his understanding, embarrassed her and recalled her to herself.
She kept her seat, still holding his hand.
You saw the other night that you had the part under your thumb.
Now walk, sleep, play with Archie, keep your tiger hungry, and she'll spring all right on Friday.
I'll be there to see her, and there'll be more than I, I suspect.
Harsanyi's on the Wilhelm der Grosse; gets in on Thursday." "Harsanyi?
I haven't seen him for years.
We always miss each other.
Yes, I should like that.
But he'll be busy, maybe?" "He gives his first concert at Carnegie Hall, week after next.
Better send him a box if you can." "Yes, I'll manage it.
Thea took his hand again.
Oh, I should like that, Fred!" she added impulsively.
She pulled a flower out of a bouquet on the piano and absently drew the stem through the lapel of his coat.
I shall be walking in the Park to-morrow afternoon, on the reservoir path, between four and five, if you care to join me.
You know that after Harsanyi I'd rather please you than anyone else.
You know a lot, but he knows even more than you." "Thank you.
Don't try to analyze it. _Schlafen sie wohl!_" he kissed her fingers and waved from the door, closing it behind him. "He's the right sort, Thea.
Dr. Archie looked warmly after his disappearing friend.
I've always hoped you'd make it up with Fred." "Well, haven't I?
Oh, marry him, you mean!
Perhaps it may come about, some day.
Just at present he's not in the marriage market any more than I am, is he?" "No, I suppose not.
It's a damned shame that a man like Ottenburg should be tied up as he is, wasting all the best years of his life.
A woman with general paresis ought to be legally dead." "Don't let us talk about Fred's wife, please.
He had no business to get into such a mess, and he had no business to stay in it.
He's always been a softy where women were concerned." "Most of us are, I'm afraid," Dr. Archie admitted meekly. "Too much light in here, isn't there?
The stage lights are hard on mine.
Thea began turning them out.
We'll leave the little one, over the piano.
She sank down by Archie on the deep sofa. "We two have so much to talk about that we keep away from it altogether; have you noticed?
We don't even nibble the edges.
I wish we had Landry here to-night to play for us.
He's very comforting." "I'm afraid you don't have enough personal life, outside your work, Thea.
The doctor looked at her anxiously. She smiled at him with her eyes half closed.
My dear doctor, I don't have any.
Your work becomes your personal life.
You are not much good until it does.
It's like being woven into a big web.
You can't pull away, because all your little tendrils are woven into the picture.
It takes you up, and uses you, and spins you out; and that is your life. Not much else can happen to you." "Didn't you think of marrying, several years ago?" "You mean Nordquist?
Yes; but I changed my mind.
We had been singing a good deal together.
He's a splendid creature." "Were you much in love with him, Thea?" the doctor asked hopefully. She smiled again.
I don't think I know just what that expression means.
I've never been able to find out.
I think I was in love with you when I was little, but not with any one since then.
There are a great many ways of caring for people.
It's not, after all, a simple state, like measles or tonsilitis.
Nordquist is a taking sort of man.
He and I were out in a rowboat once in a terrible storm.
The lake was fed by glaciers,-ice water,-and we couldn't have swum a stroke if the boat had filled.
If we hadn't both been strong and kept our heads, we'd have gone down.
We pulled for every ounce there was in us, and we just got off with our lives.
We were always being thrown together like that, under some kind of pressure.
Yes, for a while I thought he would make everything right.
She paused and sank back, resting her head on a cushion, pressing her eyelids down with her fingers.
You see," she went on abruptly, "he had a wife and two children.
He hadn't lived with her for several years, but when she heard that he wanted to marry again, she began to make trouble.
He earned a good deal of money, but he was careless and always wretchedly in debt.
He came to me one day and told me he thought his wife would settle for a hundred thousand marks and consent to a divorce.
What sort of people-" He stopped and shook his head. Thea rose and stood beside him, her hand on his shoulder.
That's exactly how it struck me," she said quietly.
Oh, we have things in common, things that go away back, under everything.
He thought I wasn't willing to part with the money.
I couldn't let myself buy him from Fru Nordquist, and he couldn't see why.
He had always thought I was close about money, so he attributed it to that.
I am careful,"-she ran her arm through Archie's and when he rose began to walk about the room with him.
I can't be careless with money.
I began the world on six hundred dollars, and it was the price of a man's life.
Ray Kennedy had worked hard and been sober and denied himself, and when he died he had six hundred dollars to show for it.
I always measure things by that six hundred dollars, just as I measure high buildings by the Moonstone standpipe.
There are standards we can't get away from." Dr. Archie took her hand.
I don't believe we should be any happier if we did get away from them.
I think it gives you some of your poise, having that anchor.
You look," glancing down at her head and shoulders, "sometimes so like your mother." "Thank you.
You couldn't say anything nicer to me than that.
On Friday afternoon, didn't you think?" "Yes, but at other times, too.
I love to see it.
Do you know what I thought about that first night when I heard you sing?
I kept remembering the night I took care of you when you had pneumonia, when you were ten years old.
You were a terribly sick child, and I was a country doctor without much experience.
There were no oxygen tanks about then.
You pretty nearly slipped away from me.
If you had-" Thea dropped her head on his shoulder.
I'd have saved myself and you a lot of trouble, wouldn't I?
Dear Dr. Archie!" she murmured. "As for me, life would have been a pretty bleak stretch, with you left out.
The doctor took one of the crystal pendants that hung from her shoulder and looked into it thoughtfully.
I guess I'm a romantic old fellow, underneath.
And you've always been my romance.
Those years when you were growing up were my happiest.
When I dream about you, I always see you as a little girl." They paused by the open window.
Nearly all my dreams, except those about breaking down on the stage or missing trains, are about Moonstone.
You tell me the old house has been pulled down, but it stands in my mind, every stick and timber.
In my sleep I go all about it, and look in the right drawers and cupboards for everything.
I often dream that I'm hunting for my rubbers in that pile of overshoes that was always under the hatrack in the hall.
I pick up every overshoe and know whose it is, but I can't find my own.
Then the school bell begins to ring and I begin to cry.
That's the house I rest in when I'm tired. All the old furniture and the worn spots in the carpet-it rests my mind to go over them." They were looking out of the window.
Down on the river four battleships were anchored in line, brilliantly lighted, and launches were coming and going, bringing the men ashore.
A searchlight from one of the ironclads was playing on the great headland up the river, where it makes its first resolute turn.
Overhead the night-blue sky was intense and clear. "There's so much that I want to tell you," she said at last, "and it's hard to explain.
My life is full of jealousies and disappointments, you know.
You get to hating people who do contemptible work and who get on just as well as you do.
There are many disappointments in my profession, and bitter, bitter contempts!
Her face hardened, and looked much older.
If you love the good thing vitally, enough to give up for it all that one must give up for it, then you must hate the cheap thing just as hard.
I tell you, there is such a thing as creative hate!
A contempt that drives you through fire, makes you risk everything and lose everything, makes you a long sight better than you ever knew you could be.
As she glanced at Dr. Archie's face, Thea stopped short and turned her own face away.
Her eyes followed the path of the searchlight up the river and rested upon the illumined headland. "You see," she went on more calmly, "voices are accidental things.
You find plenty of good voices in common women, with common minds and common hearts.
Look at that woman who sang _Ortrude_ with me last week. She's new here and the people are wild about her.
Such a beautiful volume of tone!' they say.
I give you my word she's as stupid as an owl and as coarse as a pig, and any one who knows anything about singing would see that in an instant.
Yet she's quite as popular as Necker, who's a great artist.
How can I get much satisfaction out of the enthusiasm of a house that likes her atrociously bad performance at the same time that it pretends to like mine?
If they like her, then they ought to hiss me off the stage.
We stand for things that are irreconcilable, absolutely.
You can't try to do things right and not despise the people who do them wrong.
How can I be indifferent?
If that doesn't matter, then nothing matters.
Well, sometimes I've come home as I did the other night when you first saw me, so full of bitterness that it was as if my mind were full of daggers.
And I've gone to sleep and wakened up in the Kohlers' garden, with the pigeons and the white rabbits, so happy!
She sat down on the piano bench. Archie thought she had forgotten all about him, until she called his name.
Her voice was soft now, and wonderfully sweet.
It seemed to come from somewhere deep within her, there were such strong vibrations in it.
You see, Dr. Archie, what one really strives for in art is not the sort of thing you are likely to find when you drop in for a performance at the opera.
I've always believed in you, Thea; always believed," he muttered. She smiled and closed her eyes.
They save me: the old things, things like the Kohlers' garden.
They are in everything I do." "In what you sing, you mean?" "Yes.
Not in any direct way,"-she spoke hurriedly,-"the light, the color, the feeling.
Most of all the feeling.
It comes in when I'm working on a part, like the smell of a garden coming in at the window. I try all the new things, and then go back to the old.
Perhaps my feelings were stronger then.
A child's attitude toward everything is an artist's attitude.
I am more or less of an artist now, but then I was nothing else.
When I went with you to Chicago that first time, I carried with me the essentials, the foundation of all I do now.
The point to which I could go was scratched in me then.
I haven't reached it yet, by a long way." Archie had a swift flash of memory.
You mean," he asked wonderingly, "that you knew then that you were so gifted?" Thea looked up at him and smiled.
Oh, I didn't know anything!
Not enough to ask you for my trunk when I needed it.
But you see, when I set out from Moonstone with you, I had had a rich, romantic past.
I had lived a long, eventful life, and an artist's life, every hour of it. Wagner says, in his most beautiful opera, that art is only a way of remembering youth.
And the older we grow the more precious it seems to us, and the more richly we can present that memory.
When we've got it all out,-the last, the finest thrill of it, the brightest hope of it,"-she lifted her hand above her head and dropped it,-"then we stop. We do nothing but repeat after that.
The stream has reached the level of its source.
That's our measure." There was a long, warm silence.
Thea was looking hard at the floor, as if she were seeing down through years and years, and her old friend stood watching her bent head.
His look was one with which he used to watch her long ago, and which, even in thinking about her, had become a habit of his face.
It was full of solicitude, and a kind of secret gratitude, as if to thank her for some inexpressible pleasure of the heart.
She turned her head and spoke to him over her shoulder.
Come on, you know the words better than I.
Let's try it again, I have all the words now.
Then we'll have 'Sweet Afton.
Come: '_Ca' the yowes to the knowes_'-" X Ottenburg dismissed his taxicab at the 91st Street entrance of the Park and floundered across the drive through a wild spring snowstorm.
When he reached the reservoir path he saw Thea ahead of him, walking rapidly against the wind.
Except for that one figure, the path was deserted.
A flock of gulls were hovering over the reservoir, seeming bewildered by the driving currents of snow that whirled above the black water and then disappeared within it.
When he had almost overtaken Thea, Fred called to her, and she turned and waited for him with her back to the wind.
Her hair and furs were powdered with snowflakes, and she looked like some rich-pelted animal, with warm blood, that had run in out of the woods.
Fred laughed as he took her hand. "No use asking how you do.
You surely needn't feel much anxiety about Friday, when you can look like this." She moved close to the iron fence to make room for him beside her, and faced the wind again.
Oh, I'm _well_ enough, in so far as that goes. But I'm not lucky about stage appearances.
I'm easily upset, and the most perverse things happen." "What's the matter?
Do you still get nervous?" "Of course I do.
I don't mind nerves so much as getting numbed," Thea muttered, sheltering her face for a moment with her muff.
I'm under a spell, you know, hoodooed.
It's the thing I _want_ to do that I can never do.
Any other effects I can get easily enough." "Yes, you get effects, and not only with your voice.
That's where you have it over all the rest of them; you're as much at home on the stage as you were down in Panther Canyon-as if you'd just been let out of a cage.
Didn't you get some of your ideas down there?" Thea nodded.
For heroic parts, at least.
Out of the rocks, out of the dead people.
You mean the idea of standing up under things, don't you, meeting catastrophe?
Seems to me they must have been a reserved, somber people, with only a muscular language, all their movements for a purpose; simple, strong, as if they were dealing with fate bare-handed.
She put her gloved fingers on Fred's arm.
I don't know how I can ever thank you enough.
I don't know if I'd ever have got anywhere without Panther Canyon.
How did you know that was the one thing to do for me?
It's the sort of thing nobody ever helps one to, in this world.
One can learn how to sing, but no singing teacher can give anybody what I got down there.
How did you know?" "I didn't know.
Anything else would have done as well.
It was your creative hour.
I knew you were getting a lot, but I didn't realize how much." Thea walked on in silence.
She seemed to be thinking. "Do you know what they really taught me?" she came out suddenly.
They taught me the inevitable hardness of human life.
No artist gets far who doesn't know that.
And you can't know it with your mind.
You have to realize it in your body, somehow; deep.
It's an animal sort of feeling. I sometimes think it's the strongest of all.
Do you know what I'm driving at?" "I think so.
Even your audiences feel it, vaguely: that you've sometime or other faced things that make you different." Thea turned her back to the wind, wiping away the snow that clung to her brows and lashes.
Ugh!" she exclaimed; "no matter how long a breath you have, the storm has a longer.
I haven't signed for next season, yet, Fred.
I'm holding out for a big contract: forty performances.
Necker won't be able to do much next winter.
It's going to be one of those between seasons; the old singers are too old, and the new ones are too new.
They might as well risk me as anybody.
So I want good terms.
The next five or six years are going to be my best." "You'll get what you demand, if you are uncompromising.
I'm safe in congratulating you now." Thea laughed.
I may not get it at all.
They don't seem to be breaking their necks to meet me.
I can go back to Dresden." As they turned the curve and walked westward they got the wind from the side, and talking was easier. Fred lowered his collar and shook the snow from his shoulders.
Oh, I don't mean on the contract particularly.
I congratulate you on what you can do, Thea, and on all that lies behind what you do.
On the life that's led up to it, and on being able to care so much.
That, after all, is the unusual thing." She looked at him sharply, with a certain apprehension.
If I didn't, I'd be in a bad way.
What else have I got?
She stopped with a challenging interrogation, but Ottenburg did not reply.
You mean," she persisted, "that you don't care as much as you used to?" "I care about your success, of course.
You demand more and more all the time, and you'll do more and more.
One is grateful to anybody for that; it makes life in general a little less sordid.
But as a matter of fact, I'm not much interested in how anybody sings anything." "That's too bad of you, when I'm just beginning to see what is worth doing, and how I want to do it!
Thea spoke in an injured tone. "That's what I congratulate you on.
That's the great difference between your kind and the rest of us.
It's how long you're able to keep it up that tells the story.
When you needed enthusiasm from the outside, I was able to give it to you.
Now you must let me withdraw." "I'm not tying you, am I?" she flashed out.
What do you want?" Fred shrugged.
I might ask you, What have I got?
I want things that wouldn't interest you; that you probably wouldn't understand.
For one thing, I want a son to bring up." "I can understand that.
It seems to me reasonable.
Have you also found somebody you want to marry?" "Not particularly.
They turned another curve, which brought the wind to their backs, and they walked on in comparative calm, with the snow blowing past them.
It's not your fault, Thea, but I've had you too much in my mind.
I've not given myself a fair chance in other directions.
I was in Rome when you and Nordquist were there.
If that had kept up, it might have cured me." "It might have cured a good many things," remarked Thea grimly. Fred nodded sympathetically and went on.
In my library in St. Louis, over the fireplace, I have a property spear I had copied from one in Venice,-oh, years ago, after you first went abroad, while you were studying.
You can take it and its history for what they're worth.
But I'm nearly forty years old, and I've served my turn.
You've done what I hoped for you, what I was honestly willing to lose you for-then.
I'm older now, and I think I was an ass.
I wouldn't do it again if I had the chance, not much!
Her face was both angry and troubled.
So you really feel I've been ungrateful.
I thought you sent me out to get something.
I didn't know you wanted me to bring in something easy.
I thought you wanted something-" She took a deep breath and shrugged her shoulders.
But there! nobody on God's earth wants it, _really!_ If one other person wanted it,"-she thrust her hand out before him and clenched it,-"my God, what I could do!" Fred laughed dismally.
Even in my ashes I feel myself pushing you!
How can anybody help it?
My dear girl, can't you see that anybody else who wanted it as you do would be your rival, your deadliest danger?
Can't you see that it's your great good fortune that other people can't care about it so much?" But Thea seemed not to take in his protest at all.
She went on vindicating herself.
It's taken me a long while to do anything, of course, and I've only begun to see daylight.
I've always felt responsible to you." Fred looked at her face intently, through the veil of snowflakes, and shook his head.
You are a truthful woman, and you don't mean to lie to me.
But after the one responsibility you do feel, I doubt if you've enough left to feel responsible to God!
In a way, I've always been married to you.
I'm not very flexible; never was and never shall be.
I could never have that over again.
One can't, after one begins to know anything.
But I look back on it.
My life hasn't been a gay one, any more than yours.
If I shut things out from you, you shut them out from me.
We've been a help and a hindrance to each other.
I guess it's always that way, the good and the bad all mixed up.
There's only one thing that's all beautiful-and always beautiful!
That's why my interest keeps up." "Yes, I know.
Fred looked sidewise at the outline of her head against the thickening atmosphere.
And you give one the impression that that is enough.
I've gradually, gradually given you up." "See, the lights are coming out.
Thea pointed to where they flickered, flashes of violet through the gray tree-tops.
Lower down the globes along the drives were becoming a pale lemon color.
Yes, I don't see why anybody wants to marry an artist, anyhow.
I remember Ray Kennedy used to say he didn't see how any woman could marry a gambler, for she would only be marrying what the game left.
She shook her shoulders impatiently.
Who marries who is a small matter, after all.
But I hope I can bring back your interest in my work.
You've cared longer and more than anybody else, and I'd like to have somebody human to make a report to once in a while.
You can send me your spear.
If you're not interested, I'll do my best anyhow.
I've only a few friends, but I can lose every one of them, if it has to be.
I learned how to lose when my mother died.-We must hurry now.
My taxi must be waiting." The blue light about them was growing deeper and darker, and the falling snow and the faint trees had become violet.
To the south, over Broadway, there was an orange reflection in the clouds.
Motors and carriage lights flashed by on the drive below the reservoir path, and the air was strident with horns and shrieks from the whistles of the mounted policemen. Fred gave Thea his arm as they descended from the embankment.
I guess you'll never manage to lose me or Archie, Thea.
You do pick up queer ones.
But loving you is a heroic discipline.
It wears a man out.
Tell me one thing: could I have kept you, once, if I'd put on every screw?" Thea hurried him along, talking rapidly, as if to get it over.
You might have kept me in misery for a while, perhaps.
I have to think well of myself, to work.
You could have made it hard.
I was a difficult proposition to deal with.
I understand now, of course.
Since you didn't tell me the truth in the beginning, you couldn't very well turn back after I'd set my head.
At least, if you'd been the sort who could, you wouldn't have had to,-for I'd not have cared a button for that sort, even then.
She stopped beside a car that waited at the curb and gave him her hand.
We part friends?" Fred looked at her.
It was dark outside now, and the light from the lamps along the drive flashed into the cab.
Taxicabs were still new in New York, and the theme of popular minstrelsy.
At the beginning of the season, when she was not singing often, she had gone one afternoon to hear Paderewski's recital.
In front of her sat an old German couple, evidently poor people who had made sacrifices to pay for their excellent seats.
Their intelligent enjoyment of the music, and their friendliness with each other, had interested her more than anything on the programme.
When the pianist began a lovely melody in the first movement of the Beethoven D minor sonata, the old lady put out her plump hand and touched her husband's sleeve and they looked at each other in recognition.
They both wore glasses, but such a look! Like forget-menots, and so full of happy recollections.
After several fruitless efforts, he succeeded in getting a word with her over the telephone, but she sounded so distracted and driven that he was glad to say good-night and hang up the instrument.
She was in no happy frame of mind.
Thea had always felt that she and Necker stood for the same sort of endeavor, and that Necker recognized it and had a cordial feeling for her.
In Germany she had several times sung _Brangaena_ to Necker's _Isolde_, and the older artist had let her know that she thought she sang it beautifully.
It was a bitter disappointment to find that the approval of so honest an artist as Necker could not stand the test of any significant recognition by the management.
Madame Necker was forty, and her voice was failing just when her powers were at their height.
Every fresh young voice was an enemy, and this one was accompanied by gifts which she could not fail to recognize. Thea had her dinner sent up to her apartment, and it was a very poor one.
She tasted the soup and then indignantly put on her wraps to go out and hunt a dinner.
As she was going to the elevator, she had to admit that she was behaving foolishly.
She took off her hat and coat and ordered another dinner.
When it arrived, it was no better than the first.
There was even a burnt match under the milk toast.
She had a sore throat, which made swallowing painful and boded ill for the morrow.
Although she had been speaking in whispers all day to save her throat, she now perversely summoned the housekeeper and demanded an account of some laundry that had been lost.
And how am I ever going to get to sleep in this state?" she kept asking herself.
If I don't sleep, I'll be perfectly worthless to-morrow.
I'll go down there to-morrow and make a fool of myself.
If I'd let that laundry alone with whatever nigger has stolen it-_why_ did I undertake to reform the management of this hotel to-night?
After to-morrow I could pack up and leave the place.
There's the Phillamon-I liked the rooms there better, anyhow-and the Umberto-" She began going over the advantages and disadvantages of different apartment hotels.
What _am_ I doing this for?
I can't move into another hotel to-night.
I'll keep this up till morning.
I shan't sleep a wink." Should she take a hot bath, or shouldn't she?
Sometimes it relaxed her, and sometimes it roused her and fairly put her beside herself.
Between the conviction that she must sleep and the fear that she couldn't, she hung paralyzed.
When she looked at her bed, she shrank from it in every nerve.
She was much more afraid of it than she had ever been of the stage of any opera house.
It yawned before her like the sunken road at Waterloo. She rushed into her bathroom and locked the door.
She would risk the bath, and defer the encounter with the bed a little longer.
She lay in the bath half an hour.
The warmth of the water penetrated to her bones, induced pleasant reflections and a feeling of well-being.
It was very nice to have Dr. Archie in New York, after all, and to see him get so much satisfaction out of the little companionship she was able to give him.
She liked people who got on, and who became more interesting as they grew older.
There was Fred; he was much more interesting now than he had been at thirty.
He was intelligent about music, and he must be very intelligent in his business, or he would not be at the head of the Brewers' Trust.
She respected that kind of intelligence and success. Any success was good.
She herself had made a good start, at any rate, and now, if she could get to sleep-Yes, they were all more interesting than they used to be.
Look at Harsanyi, who had been so long retarded; what a place he had made for himself in Vienna.
If she could get to sleep, she would show him something to-morrow that he would understand. She got quickly into bed and moved about freely between the sheets. Yes, she was warm all over.
A cold, dry breeze was coming in from the river, thank goodness!
She tried to think about her little rock house and the Arizona sun and the blue sky.
But that led to memories which were still too disturbing.
She turned on her side, closed her eyes, and tried an old device. She entered her father's front door, hung her hat and coat on the rack, and stopped in the parlor to warm her hands at the stove.
Then she went out through the diningroom, where the boys were getting their lessons at the long table; through the sitting-room, where Thor was asleep in his cot bed, his dress and stocking hanging on a chair.
In the kitchen she stopped for her lantern and her hot brick.
She hurried up the back stairs and through the windy loft to her own glacial room.
The illusion was marred only by the consciousness that she ought to brush her teeth before she went to bed, and that she never used to do it.
The water was frozen solid in the pitcher, so she got over that.
Once between the red blankets there was a short, fierce battle with the cold; then, warmer-warmer.
She could hear her father shaking down the hard-coal burner for the night, and the wind rushing and banging down the village street.
The boughs of the cottonwood, hard as bone, rattled against her gable.
The bed grew softer and warmer.
Everybody was warm and well downstairs.
The sprawling old house had gathered them all in, like a hen, and had settled down over its brood.
They were all warm in her father's house.
She slept ten hours without turning over.
From sleep like that, one awakes in shining armor. On Friday afternoon there was an inspiring audience; there was not an empty chair in the house.
Ottenburg and Dr. Archie had seats in the orchestra circle, got from a ticket broker.
Landry had not been able to get a seat, so he roamed about in the back of the house, where he usually stood when he dropped in after his own turn in vaudeville was over.
Mrs. Harsanyi's hair was noticeably gray, but her face was fuller and handsomer than in those early years of struggle, and she was beautifully dressed.
Harsanyi himself had changed very little.
He had put on his best afternoon coat in honor of his pupil, and wore a pearl in his black ascot.
His hair was longer and more bushy than he used to wear it, and there was now one gray lock on the right side.
He had always been an elegant figure, even when he went about in shabby clothes and was crushed with work.
Before the curtain rose he was restless and nervous, and kept looking at his watch and wishing he had got a few more letters off before he left his hotel.
He had not been in New York since the advent of the taxicab, and had allowed himself too much time.
His wife knew that he was afraid of being disappointed this afternoon.
At the moment when _Sieglinde_ entered from the side door, she leaned toward him and whispered in his ear, "Oh, the lovely creature!
But he made no response, either by voice or gesture.
Throughout the first scene he sat sunk in his chair, his head forward and his one yellow eye rolling restlessly and shining like a tiger's in the dark.
His eye followed _Sieglinde_ about the stage like a satellite, and as she sat at the table listening to _Siegmund's_ long narrative, it never left her.
When she prepared the sleeping draught and disappeared after _Hunding_, Harsanyi bowed his head still lower and put his hand over his eye to rest it.
Into one lovely attitude after another the music swept her, love impelled her.
And the voice gave out all that was best in it.
At last," he sighed, "somebody with _Enough!_ Enough voice and talent and beauty, enough physical power.
And such a noble, noble style!" "I can scarcely believe it, Andor.
I can see her now, that clumsy girl, hunched up over your piano.
I can see her shoulders.
She always seemed to labor so with her back.
And I shall never forget that night when you found her voice." The audience kept up its clamor until, after many reappearances with the tenor, Kronborg came before the curtain alone.
The house met her with a roar, a greeting that was almost savage in its fierceness.
The singer's eyes, sweeping the house, rested for a moment on Harsanyi, and she waved her long sleeve toward his box. "She _ought_ to be pleased that you are here," said Mrs. Harsanyi.
I wonder if she knows how much she owes to you." "She owes me nothing," replied her husband quickly.
She paid her way. She always gave something back, even then." "I remember you said once that she would do nothing common," said Mrs. Harsanyi thoughtfully. "Just so.
She might fail, die, get lost in the pack.
But if she achieved, it would be nothing common.
There are people whom one can trust for that.
There is one way in which they will never fail." Harsanyi retired into his own reflections. After the second act Fred Ottenburg brought Archie to the Harsanyis' box and introduced him as an old friend of Miss Kronborg.
The head of a musical publishing house joined them, bringing with him a journalist and the president of a German singing society.
The conversation was chiefly about the new _Sieglinde_.
Mrs. Harsanyi was gracious and enthusiastic, her husband nervous and uncommunicative.
He smiled mechanically, and politely answered questions addressed to him.
Every one, of course, said very usual things with great conviction.
Mrs. Harsanyi was used to hearing and uttering the commonplaces which such occasions demanded.
When her husband withdrew into the shadow, she covered his retreat by her sympathy and cordiality.
In reply to a direct question from Ottenburg, Harsanyi said, flinching, "_Isolde?_ Yes, why not?
She will sing all the great roles, I should think." The chorus director said something about "dramatic temperament.
The journalist insisted that it was "explosive force," "projecting power." Ottenburg turned to Harsanyi.
What is it, Mr. Harsanyi?
Miss Kronborg says if there is anything in her, you are the man who can say what it is." The journalist scented copy and was eager.
You know all about her.
What's her secret?" Harsanyi rumpled his hair irritably and shrugged his shoulders.
It is every artist's secret,"-he waved his hand,-"passion.
It is an open secret, and perfectly safe.
Like heroism, it is inimitable in cheap materials." The lights went out.
Fred and Archie left the box as the second act came on. Artistic growth is, more than it is anything else, a refining of the sense of truthfulness.
The stupid believe that to be truthful is easy; only the artist, the great artist, knows how difficult it is.
That afternoon nothing new came to Thea Kronborg, no enlightenment, no inspiration.
She merely came into full possession of things she had been refining and perfecting for so long.
But this afternoon the closed roads opened, the gates dropped.
What she had so often tried to reach, lay under her hand.
She had only to touch an idea to make it live. While she was on the stage she was conscious that every movement was the right movement, that her body was absolutely the instrument of her idea.
Not for nothing had she kept it so severely, kept it filled with such energy and fire.
All that deep-rooted vitality flowered in her voice, her face, in her very finger-tips.
She felt like a tree bursting into bloom.
And her voice was as flexible as her body; equal to any demand, capable of every _nuance_.
Thea Kronborg's friends, old and new, seated about the house on different floors and levels, enjoyed her triumph according to their natures.
There was one there, whom nobody knew, who perhaps got greater pleasure out of that afternoon than Harsanyi himself.
One of the managers of the show had traveled about the Southwest, signing up a lot of Mexican musicians at low wages, and had brought them to New York.
Among them was Spanish Johnny.
After Mrs. Tellamantez died, Johnny abandoned his trade and went out with his mandolin to pick up a living for one.
A little crowd of people was lingering about the door-musicians from the orchestra who were waiting for their comrades, curious young men, and some poorly dressed girls who were hoping to get a glimpse of the singer.
She bowed graciously to the group, through her veil, but she did not look to the right or left as she crossed the sidewalk to her cab.
And she would have known him, changed as he was.
His lustrous black hair was full of gray, and his face was a good deal worn by the _extasi_, so that it seemed to have shrunk away from his shining eyes and teeth and left them too prominent.
But she would have known him.
She passed so near that he could have touched her, and he did not put on his hat until her taxi had snorted away.
Then he walked down Broadway with his hands in his overcoat pockets, wearing a smile which embraced all the stream of life that passed him and the lighted towers that rose into the limpid blue of the evening sky.
If the singer, going home exhausted in her cab, was wondering what was the good of it all, that smile, could she have seen it, would have answered her.
It is the only commensurate answer. Here we must leave Thea Kronborg.
From this time on the story of her life is the story of her achievement.
The growth of an artist is an intellectual and spiritual development which can scarcely be followed in a personal narrative.
Any account of the loyalty of young hearts to some exalted ideal, and the passion with which they strive, will always, in some of us, rekindle generous emotions. EPILOGUE Moonstone again, in the year 1909.
The Methodists are giving an ice-cream sociable in the grove about the new court-house.
It is a warm summer night of full moon.
The paper lanterns which hang among the trees are foolish toys, only dimming, in little lurid circles, the great softness of the lunar light that floods the blue heavens and the high plateau.
To the east the sand hills shine white as of old, but the empire of the sand is gradually diminishing.
The grass grows thicker over the dunes than it used to, and the streets of the town are harder and firmer than they were twenty-five years ago.
The old inhabitants will tell you that sandstorms are infrequent now, that the wind blows less persistently in the spring and plays a milder tune.
Cultivation has modified the soil and the climate, as it modifies human life. The people seated about under the cottonwoods are much smarter than the Methodists we used to know.
The interior of the new Methodist Church looks like a theater, with a sloping floor, and as the congregation proudly say, "opera chairs.
The country child, in made-overs and cut-downs, seems to have vanished from the face of the earth. At one of the tables, with her Dutch-cut twin boys, sits a fair-haired, dimpled matron who was once Lily Fisher.
Her husband is president of the new bank, and she "goes East for her summers," a practice which causes envy and discontent among her neighbors.
There sits a spry little old spinster whom they know well.
She has a long chin, a long nose, and she is dressed like a young girl, with a pink sash and a lace garden hat with pink rosebuds.
The observing child's remark had made every one suddenly realize that Tillie never stopped talking about that particular sum of money.
When she was making her Christmas presents, she never failed to ask the women who came into her shop what you _could_ make for anybody who got a thousand dollars a night.
When the Denver papers announced that Thea Kronborg had married Frederick Ottenburg, the head of the Brewers' Trust, Moonstone people expected that Tillie's vain-gloriousness would take another form.
But Tillie had hoped that Thea would marry a title, and she did not boast much about Ottenburg,-at least not until after her memorable trip to Kansas City to hear Thea sing. Tillie is the last Kronborg left in Moonstone.
She lives alone in a little house with a green yard, and keeps a fancywork and millinery store.
Her business methods are informal, and she would never come out even at the end of the year, if she did not receive a draft for a good round sum from her niece at Christmas time.
The arrival of this draft always renews the discussion as to what Thea would do for her aunt if she really did the right thing.
Most of the Moonstone people think Thea ought to take Tillie to New York and keep her as a companion.
While they are feeling sorry for Tillie because she does not live at the Plaza, Tillie is trying not to hurt their feelings by showing too plainly how much she realizes the superiority of her position.
She tries to be modest when she complains to the postmaster that her New York paper is more than three days late.
It means enough, surely, on the face of it, that she is the only person in Moonstone who takes a New York paper or who has any reason for taking one.
A foolish young girl, Tillie lived in the splendid sorrows of "Wanda" and "Strathmore"; a foolish old girl, she lives in her niece's triumphs.
As she often says, she just missed going on the stage herself. That night after the sociable, as Tillie tripped home with a crowd of noisy boys and girls, she was perhaps a shade troubled.
The twin's question rather lingered in her ears.
Did she, perhaps, insist too much on that thousand dollars?
Surely, people didn't for a minute think it was the money she cared about?
As for that, Tillie tossed her head, she didn't care a rap.
On glorious, soft summer nights like this, when the moon is opulent and full, the day submerged and forgotten, she loves to sit there behind her rose-vine and let her fancy wander where it will.
The legend of Kronborg, the artist, fills Tillie's life; she feels rich and exalted in it.
What delightful things happen in her mind as she sits there rocking!
She goes back to those early days of sand and sun, when Thea was a child and Tillie was herself, so it seems to her, "young.
When she used to hurry to church to hear Mr. Kronborg's wonderful sermons, and when Thea used to stand up by the organ of a bright Sunday morning and sing "Come, Ye Disconsolate.
Thea let Tillie go through her costume trunks and try on her wigs and jewels.
And the kindness of Mr. Ottenburg!
When Thea dined in her own room, he went down to dinner with Tillie, and never looked bored or absent-minded when she chattered.
He took her to the hall the first time Thea sang there, and sat in the box with her and helped her through "Lohengrin.
After the first act, when Tillie turned tearful eyes to him and burst out, "I don't care, she always seemed grand like that, even when she was a girl.
Then a neighbor boy came down the sidewalk outside her window, singing "Casey Jones" as if he hadn't a care in the world.
By this time Tillie was wide awake.
The twin's question, and the subsequent laughter, came back with a faint twinge.
Tillie knew she was short-sighted about facts, but this time-Why, there were her scrapbooks, full of newspaper and magazine articles about Thea, and half-tone cuts, snap-shots of her on land and sea, and photographs of her in all her parts.
There, in her parlor, was the phonograph that had come from Mr. Ottenburg last June, on Thea's birthday; she had only to go in there and turn it on, and let Thea speak for herself.
At her household work Tillie was always bursting out with shrill snatches of song, and as suddenly stopping, right in the middle of a phrase, as if she had been struck dumb.
She emerged upon the back porch with one of these bursts, and bent down to get her butter and cream out of the ice-box.
The cat was purring on the bench and the morning-glories were thrusting their purple trumpets in through the lattice-work in a friendly way.
They reminded Tillie that while she was waiting for the coffee to boil she could get some flowers for her breakfast table.
She looked out uncertainly at a bush of sweet-briar that grew at the edge of her yard, off across the long grass and the tomato vines.
The front porch, to be sure, was dripping with crimson ramblers that ought to be cut for the good of the vines; but never the rose in the hand for Tillie!
She caught up the kitchen shears and off she dashed through grass and drenching dew.
In the Sunday paper there was always a page about singers, even in summer, and that week the musical page began with a sympathetic account of Madame Kronborg's first performance of _Isolde_ in London.
All through breakfast she kept sticking her sharp nose down into the glass of sweet-briar, with the old incredible lightness of heart, like a child's balloon tugging at its string.
She had always insisted, against all evidence, that life was full of fairy tales, and it was!
She had been feeling a little down, perhaps, and Thea had answered her, from so far.
From a common person, now, if you were troubled, you might get a letter.
But Thea almost never wrote letters.
She answered every one, friends and foes alike, in one way, her own way, her only way.
Once more Tillie has to remind herself that it is all true, and is not something she has "made up." Like all romancers, she is a little terrified at seeing one of her wildest conceits admitted by the hardheaded world.
The same little houses sit under the cottonwoods; the men smoke their pipes in the front doorways, and the women do their washing in the back yard.
The older women remember Thea, and how she used to come kicking her express wagon along the sidewalk, steering by the tongue and holding Thor in her lap.
Not much happens in that part of town, and the people have long memories.
A boy grew up on one of those streets who went to Omaha and built up a great business, and is now very rich.
Moonstone people always speak of him and Thea together, as examples of Moonstone enterprise.
They do, however, talk oftener of Thea.
A voice has even a wider appeal than a fortune.
It is the one gift that all creatures would possess if they could.
Dreary Maggie Evans, dead nearly twenty years, is still remembered because Thea sang at her funeral "after she had studied in Chicago." However much they may smile at her, the old inhabitants would miss Tillie.
Her stories give them something to talk about and to conjecture about, cut off as they are from the restless currents of the world.
So, into all the little settlements of quiet people, tidings of what their boys and girls are doing in the world bring real refreshment; bring to the old, memories, and to the young, dreams. THE END
She was a notable housewife; her work was always done and well done; she "ran" the Sewing Circle, helped run the Sunday-school, and was the strongest prop of the Church Aid Society and Foreign Missions Auxiliary.
The sun was coming in at the window warm and bright; the orchard on the slope below the house was in a bridal flush of pinky-white bloom, hummed over by a myriad of bees.
Mrs. Rachel knew that he ought because she had heard him tell Peter Morrison the evening before in William J.
Blair's store over at Carmody that he meant to sow his turnip seed the next afternoon.
Now, where was Matthew Cuthbert going and why was he going there? Had it been any other man in Avonlea, Mrs. Rachel, deftly putting this and that together, might have given a pretty good guess as to both questions.
Matthew, dressed up with a white collar and driving in a buggy, was something that didn't happen often.
To be sure, the long lane made it a good deal further.
Matthew Cuthbert's father, as shy and silent as his son after him, had got as far away as he possibly could from his fellow men without actually retreating into the woods when he founded his homestead.
Green Gables was built at the furthest edge of his cleared land and there it was to this day, barely visible from the main road along which all the other Avonlea houses were so sociably situated.
Mrs. Rachel Lynde did not call living in such a place _living_ at all. "It's just _staying_, that's what," she said as she stepped along the deep-rutted, grassy lane bordered with wild rose bushes.
It's no wonder Matthew and Marilla are both a little odd, living away back here by themselves.
Trees aren't much company, though dear knows if they were there'd be enough of them.
I'd ruther look at people.
To be sure, they seem contented enough; but then, I suppose, they're used to it.
A body can get used to anything, even to being hanged, as the Irishman said." With this Mrs. Rachel stepped out of the lane into the backyard of Green Gables.
Very green and neat and precise was that yard, set about on one side with great patriarchal willows and on the other with prim Lombardies.
Not a stray stick nor stone was to be seen, for Mrs. Rachel would have seen it if there had been.
Privately she was of the opinion that Marilla Cuthbert swept that yard over as often as she swept her house.
One could have eaten a meal off the ground without overbrimming the proverbial peck of dirt. Mrs. Rachel rapped smartly at the kitchen door and stepped in when bidden to do so.
The kitchen at Green Gables was a cheerful apartment--or would have been cheerful if it had not been so painfully clean as to give it something of the appearance of an unused parlor.
Yet what of Matthew's white collar and the sorrel mare?
Mrs. Rachel was getting fairly dizzy with this unusual mystery about quiet, unmysterious Green Gables. "Good evening, Rachel," Marilla said briskly.
This is a real fine evening, isn't it?
I was kind of afraid _you_ weren't, though, when I saw Matthew starting off today.
I thought maybe he was going to the doctor's." Marilla's lips twitched understandingly.
She had expected Mrs. Rachel up; she had known that the sight of Matthew jaunting off so unaccountably would be too much for her neighbor's curiosity. "Oh, no, I'm quite well although I had a bad headache yesterday," she said.
Matthew went to Bright River.
She thought in exclamation points.
Marilla and Matthew Cuthbert of all people adopting a boy!
Well, the world was certainly turning upside down!
Mrs. Alexander Spencer was up here one day before Christmas and she said she was going to get a little girl from the asylum over in Hopeton in the spring.
Her cousin lives there and Mrs. Spencer has visited her and knows all about it.
So Matthew and I have talked it over off and on ever since.
We thought we'd get a boy.
Matthew is getting up in years, you know--he's sixty--and he isn't so spry as he once was.
His heart troubles him a good deal.
And you know how desperate hard it's got to be to get hired help.
There's never anybody to be had but those stupid, half-grown little French boys; and as soon as you do get one broke into your ways and taught something he's up and off to the lobster canneries or the States.
At first Matthew suggested getting a Home boy.
But I said 'no' flat to that.
They may be all right--I'm not saying they're not--but no London street Arabs for me,' I said.
Give me a native born at least.
There'll be a risk, no matter who we get.
But I'll feel easier in my mind and sleep sounder at nights if we get a born Canadian.
So in the end we decided to ask Mrs. Spencer to pick us out one when she went over to get her little girl.
We heard last week she was going, so we sent her word by Richard Spencer's folks at Carmody to bring us a smart, likely boy of about ten or eleven.
We decided that would be the best age--old enough to be of some use in doing chores right off and young enough to be trained up proper.
We mean to give him a good home and schooling.
We had a telegram from Mrs. Alexander Spencer today--the mail-man brought it from the station--saying they were coming on the five-thirty train tonight.
So Matthew went to Bright River to meet him.
Mrs. Spencer will drop him off there.
You don't know what you're getting.
And I know another case where an adopted boy used to suck the eggs--they couldn't break him of it.
If you had asked my advice in the matter--which you didn't do, Marilla--I'd have said for mercy's sake not to think of such a thing, that's what." This Job's comforting seemed neither to offend nor to alarm Marilla.
She knitted steadily on. "I don't deny there's something in what you say, Rachel.
I've had some qualms myself.
But Matthew was terrible set on it.
There's risks in people's having children of their own if it comes to that--they don't always turn out well.
And then Nova Scotia is right close to the Island. It isn't as if we were getting him from England or the States.
He can't be much different from ourselves." "Well, I hope it will turn out all right," said Mrs. Rachel in a tone that plainly indicated her painful doubts.
Only, it was a girl in that instance." "Well, we're not getting a girl," said Marilla, as if poisoning wells were a purely feminine accomplishment and not to be dreaded in the case of a boy.
I'd never dream of taking a girl to bring up.
I wonder at Mrs. Alexander Spencer for doing it.
But there, _she_ wouldn't shrink from adopting a whole orphan asylum if she took it into her head." Mrs. Rachel would have liked to stay until Matthew came home with his imported orphan.
But reflecting that it would be a good two hours at least before his arrival she concluded to go up the road to Robert Bell's and tell the news.
It would certainly make a sensation second to none, and Mrs. Rachel dearly loved to make a sensation.
It does really seem as if I must be dreaming.
Matthew Cuthbert Is Surprised MATTHEW Cuthbert and the sorrel mare jogged comfortably over the eight miles to Bright River.
It was a pretty road, running along between snug farmsteads, with now and again a bit of balsamy fir wood to drive through or a hollow where wild plums hung out their filmy bloom.
The long platform was almost deserted; the only living creature in sight being a girl who was sitting on a pile of shingles at the extreme end.
Matthew, barely noting that it _was_ a girl, sidled past her as quickly as possible without looking at her.
Had he looked he could hardly have failed to notice the tense rigidity and expectation of her attitude and expression.
But there was a passenger dropped off for you--a little girl.
She's sitting out there on the shingles.
I asked her to go into the ladies' waiting room, but she informed me gravely that she preferred to stay outside.
There was more scope for imagination,' she said.
She's a case, I should say." "I'm not expecting a girl," said Matthew blankly.
It's a boy I've come for.
Mrs. Alexander Spencer was to bring him over from Nova Scotia for me." The stationmaster whistled. "Guess there's some mistake," he said.
Mrs. Spencer came off the train with that girl and gave her into my charge.
Said you and your sister were adopting her from an orphan asylum and that you would be along for her presently.
I dare say she'll be able to explain--she's got a tongue of her own, that's certain.
Matthew groaned in spirit as he turned about and shuffled gently down the platform towards her. She had been watching him ever since he had passed her and she had her eyes on him now.
She wore a faded brown sailor hat and beneath the hat, extending down her back, were two braids of very thick, decidedly red hair.
I'm very glad to see you.
I was beginning to be afraid you weren't coming for me and I was imagining all the things that might have happened to prevent you.
I had made up my mind that if you didn't come for me tonight I'd go down the track to that big wild cherry-tree at the bend, and climb up into it to stay all night.
I wouldn't be a bit afraid, and it would be lovely to sleep in a wild cherry-tree all white with bloom in the moonshine, don't you think? You could imagine you were dwelling in marble halls, couldn't you?
And I was quite sure you would come for me in the morning, if you didn't tonight." Matthew had taken the scrawny little hand awkwardly in his; then and there he decided what to do.
He could not tell this child with the glowing eyes that there had been a mistake; he would take her home and let Marilla do that.
The horse is over in the yard.
Give me your bag." "Oh, I can carry it," the child responded cheerfully.
It isn't heavy. I've got all my worldly goods in it, but it isn't heavy.
And if it isn't carried in just a certain way the handle pulls out--so I'd better keep it because I know the exact knack of it.
It's an extremely old carpet-bag.
Oh, I'm very glad you've come, even if it would have been nice to sleep in a wild cherry-tree.
We've got to drive a long piece, haven't we?
Mrs. Spencer said it was eight miles.
I'm glad because I love driving.
Oh, it seems so wonderful that I'm going to live with you and belong to you.
I've never belonged to anybody--not really.
But the asylum was the worst.
I've only been in it four months, but that was enough.
I don't suppose you ever were an orphan in an asylum, so you can't possibly understand what it is like.
It's worse than anything you could imagine.
Mrs. Spencer said it was wicked of me to talk like that, but I didn't mean to be wicked.
It's so easy to be wicked without knowing it, isn't it?
They were good, you know--the asylum people.
But there is so little scope for the imagination in an asylum--only just in the other orphans.
I used to lie awake at nights and imagine things like that, because I didn't have time in the day.
I guess that's why I'm so thin--I _am_ dreadful thin, ain't I?
There isn't a pick on my bones.
I do love to imagine I'm nice and plump, with dimples in my elbows." With this Matthew's companion stopped talking, partly because she was out of breath and partly because they had reached the buggy.
I don't ever expect to be a bride myself.
I'm so homely nobody will ever want to marry me--unless it might be a foreign missionary.
I suppose a foreign missionary mightn't be very particular.
But I do hope that some day I shall have a white dress.
That is my highest ideal of earthly bliss.
I just love pretty clothes.
And I've never had a pretty dress in my life that I can remember--but of course it's all the more to look forward to, isn't it?
And then I can imagine that I'm dressed gorgeously.
This morning when I left the asylum I felt so ashamed because I had to wear this horrid old wincey dress.
All the orphans had to wear them, you know.
A merchant in Hopeton last winter donated three hundred yards of wincey to the asylum.
Some people said it was because he couldn't sell it, but I'd rather believe that it was out of the kindness of his heart, wouldn't you?
When we got on the train I felt as if everybody must be looking at me and pitying me.
I felt cheered up right away and I enjoyed my trip to the Island with all my might.
I wasn't a bit sick coming over in the boat.
Neither was Mrs. Spencer, although she generally is.
She said she hadn't time to get sick, watching to see that I didn't fall overboard.
She said she never saw the beat of me for prowling about.
But if it kept her from being seasick it's a mercy I did prowl, isn't it?
And I wanted to see everything that was to be seen on that boat, because I didn't know whether I'd ever have another opportunity.
Oh, there are a lot more cherry-trees all in bloom!
This Island is the bloomiest place.
I just love it already, and I'm so glad I'm going to live here.
I've always heard that Prince Edward Island was the prettiest place in the world, and I used to imagine I was living here, but I never really expected I would.
It's delightful when your imaginations come true, isn't it? But those red roads are so funny.
She said I must have asked her a thousand already.
I suppose I had, too, but how are you going to find out about things if you don't ask questions?
And what _does_ make the roads red?" "Well now, I dunno," said Matthew. "Well, that is one of the things to find out sometime.
Isn't it splendid to think of all the things there are to find out about?
It just makes me feel glad to be alive--it's such an interesting world.
It wouldn't be half so interesting if we knew all about everything, would it?
There'd be no scope for imagination then, would there?
But am I talking too much?
People are always telling me I do.
Would you rather I didn't talk?
If you say so I'll stop.
I can _stop_ when I make up my mind to it, although it's difficult." Matthew, much to his own surprise, was enjoying himself.
Like most quiet folks he liked talkative people when they were willing to do the talking themselves and did not expect him to keep up his end of it.
But he had never expected to enjoy the society of a little girl.
Women were bad enough in all conscience, but little girls were worse.
He detested the way they had of sidling past him timidly, with sidewise glances, as if they expected him to gobble them up at a mouthful if they ventured to say a word.
That was the Avonlea type of well-bred little girl.
But this freckled witch was very different, and although he found it rather difficult for his slower intelligence to keep up with her brisk mental processes he thought that he "kind of liked her chatter.
So he said as shyly as usual: "Oh, you can talk as much as you like.
I don't mind." "Oh, I'm so glad.
I know you and I are going to get along together fine.
It's such a relief to talk when one wants to and not be told that children should be seen and not heard.
I've had that said to me a million times if I have once.
And people laugh at me because I use big words.
But if you have big ideas you have to use big words to express them, haven't you?" "Well now, that seems reasonable," said Matthew. "Mrs. Spencer said that my tongue must be hung in the middle.
But it isn't--it's firmly fastened at one end.
Mrs. Spencer said your place was named Green Gables.
I asked her all about it.
And she said there were trees all around it.
I was gladder than ever.
And there weren't any at all about the asylum, only a few poor weeny-teeny things out in front with little whitewashed cagey things about them. They just looked like orphans themselves, those trees did.
It used to make me want to cry to look at them.
I used to say to them, 'Oh, you _poor_ little things!
But you can't where you are.
I know just exactly how you feel, little trees.
I felt sorry to leave them behind this morning.
You do get so attached to things like that, don't you?
Is there a brook anywhere near Green Gables?
I forgot to ask Mrs. Spencer that." "Well now, yes, there's one right below the house." "Fancy.
It's always been one of my dreams to live near a brook.
I never expected I would, though.
Dreams don't often come true, do they? Wouldn't it be nice if they did?
But just now I feel pretty nearly perfectly happy.
I can't feel exactly perfectly happy because--well, what color would you call this?" She twitched one of her long glossy braids over her thin shoulder and held it up before Matthew's eyes.
Now you see why I can't be perfectly happy.
Nobody could who has red hair.
I don't mind the other things so much--the freckles and the green eyes and my skinniness.
I can imagine them away.
I can imagine that I have a beautiful rose-leaf complexion and lovely starry violet eyes.
But I _cannot_ imagine that red hair away.
I think to myself, 'Now my hair is a glorious black, black as the raven's wing.
But all the time I _know_ it is just plain red and it breaks my heart.
It will be my lifelong sorrow. I read of a girl once in a novel who had a lifelong sorrow but it wasn't red hair.
Her hair was pure gold rippling back from her alabaster brow. What is an alabaster brow?
I never could find out.
Can you tell me?" "Well now, I'm afraid I can't," said Matthew, who was getting a little dizzy.
He felt as he had once felt in his rash youth when another boy had enticed him on the merry-go-round at a picnic. "Well, whatever it was it must have been something nice because she was divinely beautiful.
Have you ever imagined what it must feel like to be divinely beautiful?" "Well now, no, I haven't," confessed Matthew ingenuously. "I have, often.
Which would you rather be if you had the choice--divinely beautiful or dazzlingly clever or angelically good?" "Well now, I--I don't know exactly." "Neither do I.
But it doesn't make much real difference for it isn't likely I'll ever be either.
It's certain I'll never be angelically good.
Mrs. Spencer says--oh, Mr. Cuthbert!
Oh, Mr. Cuthbert!!!" That was not what Mrs. Spencer had said; neither had the child tumbled out of the buggy nor had Matthew done anything astonishing.
Overhead was one long canopy of snowy fragrant bloom.
She leaned back in the buggy, her thin hands clasped before her, her face lifted rapturously to the white splendor above.
Even when they had passed out and were driving down the long slope to Newbridge she never moved or spoke.
Still with rapt face she gazed afar into the sunset west, with eyes that saw visions trooping splendidly across that glowing background.
Through Newbridge, a bustling little village where dogs barked at them and small boys hooted and curious faces peered from the windows, they drove, still in silence.
When three more miles had dropped away behind them the child had not spoken.
It is a kind of pretty place." "Pretty?
Oh, _pretty_ doesn't seem the right word to use.
They don't go far enough.
Oh, it was wonderful--wonderful. It's the first thing I ever saw that couldn't be improved upon by imagination.
It just satisfied me here"--she put one hand on her breast--"it made a queer funny ache and yet it was a pleasant ache.
Did you ever have an ache like that, Mr. Cuthbert?" "Well now, I just can't recollect that I ever had." "I have it lots of times--whenever I see anything royally beautiful. But they shouldn't call that lovely place the Avenue.
There is no meaning in a name like that.
They should call it--let me see--the White Way of Delight.
Isn't that a nice imaginative name?
When I don't like the name of a place or a person I always imagine a new one and always think of them so.
There was a girl at the asylum whose name was Hepzibah Jenkins, but I always imagined her as Rosalia DeVere.
Other people may call that place the Avenue, but I shall always call it the White Way of Delight.
Have we really only another mile to go before we get home?
I'm glad and I'm sorry.
I'm sorry because this drive has been so pleasant and I'm always sorry when pleasant things end.
Something still pleasanter may come after, but you can never be sure.
And it's so often the case that it isn't pleasanter.
That has been my experience anyhow.
But I'm glad to think of getting home.
You see, I've never had a real home since I can remember.
It gives me that pleasant ache again just to think of coming to a really truly home.
Oh, isn't that pretty!" They had driven over the crest of a hill.
Below them was a pond, looking almost like a river so long and winding was it.
Above the bridge the pond ran up into fringing groves of fir and maple and lay all darkly translucent in their wavering shadows.
Here and there a wild plum leaned out from the bank like a white-clad girl tiptoeing to her own reflection.
I shall call it--let me see--the Lake of Shining Waters.
Yes, that is the right name for it.
I know because of the thrill.
When I hit on a name that suits exactly it gives me a thrill.
Do things ever give you a thrill?" Matthew ruminated. "Well now, yes.
It always kind of gives me a thrill to see them ugly white grubs that spade up in the cucumber beds.
I hate the look of them." "Oh, I don't think that can be exactly the same kind of a thrill.
Do you think it can?
There doesn't seem to be much connection between grubs and lakes of shining waters, does there?
But why do other people call it Barry's pond?" "I reckon because Mr. Barry lives up there in that house.
Orchard Slope's the name of his place.
If it wasn't for that big bush behind it you could see Green Gables from here.
But we have to go over the bridge and round by the road, so it's near half a mile further." "Has Mr. Barry any little girls?
Well, not so very little either--about my size." "He's got one about eleven.
Her name is Diana." "Oh!" with a long indrawing of breath.
What a perfectly lovely name!" "Well now, I dunno.
There's something dreadful heathenish about it, seems to me.
Oh, here we are at the bridge.
I'm going to shut my eyes tight. I'm always afraid going over bridges.
I can't help imagining that perhaps, just as we get to the middle, they'll crumple up like a jack-knife and nip us.
So I shut my eyes.
But I always have to open them for all when I think we're getting near the middle.
Because, you see, if the bridge _did_ crumple up I'd want to _see_ it crumple.
What a jolly rumble it makes!
I always like the rumble part of it.
Isn't it splendid there are so many things to like in this world?
Good night, dear Lake of Shining Waters.
I always say good night to the things I love, just as I would to people.
I think they like it.
That water looks as if it was smiling at me." When they had driven up the further hill and around a corner Matthew said: "We're pretty near home now.
That's Green Gables over--" "Oh, don't tell me," she interrupted breathlessly, catching at his partially raised arm and shutting her eyes that she might not see his gesture.
I'm sure I'll guess right." She opened her eyes and looked about her.
They were on the crest of a hill.
The sun had set some time since, but the landscape was still clear in the mellow afterlight.
To the west a dark church spire rose up against a marigold sky.
Below was a little valley and beyond a long, gently-rising slope with snug farmsteads scattered along it.
From one to another the child's eyes darted, eager and wistful.
At last they lingered on one away to the left, far back from the road, dimly white with blossoming trees in the twilight of the surrounding woods.
But I reckon Mrs. Spencer described it so's you could tell." "No, she didn't--really she didn't.
All she said might just as well have been about most of those other places.
I hadn't any real idea what it looked like.
But just as soon as I saw it I felt it was home.
Oh, it seems as if I must be in a dream.
Then I'd pinch myself to see if it was real--until suddenly I remembered that even supposing it was only a dream I'd better go on dreaming as long as I could; so I stopped pinching.
But it _is_ real and we're nearly home." With a sigh of rapture she relapsed into silence.
He felt glad that it would be Marilla and not he who would have to tell this waif of the world that the home she longed for was not to be hers after all.
They drove over Lynde's Hollow, where it was already quite dark, but not so dark that Mrs. Rachel could not see them from her window vantage, and up the hill and into the long lane of Green Gables.
By the time they arrived at the house Matthew was shrinking from the approaching revelation with an energy he did not understand.
What nice dreams they must have!" Then, holding tightly to the carpet-bag which contained "all her worldly goods," she followed him into the house. CHAPTER III.
Marilla Cuthbert Is Surprised MARILLA came briskly forward as Matthew opened the door.
But when her eyes fell on the odd little figure in the stiff, ugly dress, with the long braids of red hair and the eager, luminous eyes, she stopped short in amazement. "Matthew Cuthbert, who's that?" she ejaculated.
Where is the boy?" "There wasn't any boy," said Matthew wretchedly.
There was only _her_." He nodded at the child, remembering that he had never even asked her name. "No boy!
But there _must_ have been a boy," insisted Marilla.
We sent word to Mrs. Spencer to bring a boy." "Well, she didn't.
And I had to bring her home.
Suddenly she seemed to grasp the full meaning of what had been said.
Dropping her precious carpet-bag she sprang forward a step and clasped her hands. "You don't want me!" she cried.
You don't want me because I'm not a boy!
I might have expected it.
Nobody ever did want me.
I might have known it was all too beautiful to last.
I might have known nobody really did want me.
Oh, what shall I do?
I'm going to burst into tears!" Burst into tears she did.
Sitting down on a chair by the table, flinging her arms out upon it, and burying her face in them, she proceeded to cry stormily.
Marilla and Matthew looked at each other deprecatingly across the stove.
Neither of them knew what to say or do.
Finally Marilla stepped lamely into the breach. "Well, well, there's no need to cry so about it." "Yes, there _is_ need!
Oh, this is the most _tragical_ thing that ever happened to me!" Something like a reluctant smile, rather rusty from long disuse, mellowed Marilla's grim expression. "Well, don't cry any more.
We're not going to turn you out-of-doors tonight.
You'll have to stay here until we investigate this affair. What's your name?" The child hesitated for a moment. "Will you please call me Cordelia?" she said eagerly. "_Call_ you Cordelia?
Is that your name?" "No-o-o, it's not exactly my name, but I would love to be called Cordelia.
It's such a perfectly elegant name." "I don't know what on earth you mean.
If Cordelia isn't your name, what is?" "Anne Shirley," reluctantly faltered forth the owner of that name, "but, oh, please do call me Cordelia.
It can't matter much to you what you call me if I'm only going to be here a little while, can it?
And Anne is such an unromantic name." "Unromantic fiddlesticks!" said the unsympathetic Marilla.
Anne is a real good plain sensible name.
You've no need to be ashamed of it." "Oh, I'm not ashamed of it," explained Anne, "only I like Cordelia better.
I've always imagined that my name was Cordelia--at least, I always have of late years.
When I was young I used to imagine it was Geraldine, but I like Cordelia better now.
But if you call me Anne please call me Anne spelled with an E." "What difference does it make how it's spelled?" asked Marilla with another rusty smile as she picked up the teapot. "Oh, it makes _such_ a difference.
It _looks_ so much nicer.
When you hear a name pronounced can't you always see it in your mind, just as if it was printed out?
I can; and A-n-n looks dreadful, but A-n-n-e looks so much more distinguished.
If you'll only call me Anne spelled with an E I shall try to reconcile myself to not being called Cordelia." "Very well, then, Anne spelled with an E, can you tell us how this mistake came to be made?
We sent word to Mrs. Spencer to bring us a boy. Were there no boys at the asylum?" "Oh, yes, there was an abundance of them.
But Mrs. Spencer said _distinctly_ that you wanted a girl about eleven years old.
And the matron said she thought I would do.
You don't know how delighted I was. I couldn't sleep all last night for joy.
Oh," she added reproachfully, turning to Matthew, "why didn't you tell me at the station that you didn't want me and leave me there?
I'm going out to put the mare in, Marilla.
Have tea ready when I come back." "Did Mrs. Spencer bring anybody over besides you?" continued Marilla when Matthew had gone out. "She brought Lily Jones for herself.
Lily is only five years old and she is very beautiful and had nut-brown hair.
If I was very beautiful and had nut-brown hair would you keep me?" "No. We want a boy to help Matthew on the farm.
A girl would be of no use to us.
I'll lay it and your bag on the hall table." Anne took off her hat meekly.
Matthew came back presently and they sat down to supper.
But Anne could not eat.
In vain she nibbled at the bread and butter and pecked at the crab-apple preserve out of the little scalloped glass dish by her plate.
She did not really make any headway at all. "You're not eating anything," said Marilla sharply, eying her as if it were a serious shortcoming.
I'm in the depths of despair.
Can you eat when you are in the depths of despair?" "I've never been in the depths of despair, so I can't say," responded Marilla. "Weren't you?
Well, did you ever try to _imagine_ you were in the depths of despair?" "No, I didn't." "Then I don't think you can understand what it's like.
It's a very uncomfortable feeling indeed.
When you try to eat a lump comes right up in your throat and you can't swallow anything, not even if it was a chocolate caramel.
I had one chocolate caramel once two years ago and it was simply delicious.
I've often dreamed since then that I had a lot of chocolate caramels, but I always wake up just when I'm going to eat them.
I do hope you won't be offended because I can't eat.
Everything is extremely nice, but still I cannot eat." "I guess she's tired," said Matthew, who hadn't spoken since his return from the barn.
Best put her to bed, Marilla." Marilla had been wondering where Anne should be put to bed.
She had prepared a couch in the kitchen chamber for the desired and expected boy.
But, although it was neat and clean, it did not seem quite the thing to put a girl there somehow.
But the spare room was out of the question for such a stray waif, so there remained only the east gable room.
Marilla lighted a candle and told Anne to follow her, which Anne spiritlessly did, taking her hat and carpet-bag from the hall table as she passed.
The matron of the asylum made them for me.
There is never enough to go around in an asylum, so things are always skimpy--at least in a poor asylum like ours.
But one can dream just as well in them as in lovely trailing ones, with frills around the neck, that's one consolation." "Well, undress as quick as you can and go to bed.
I'll come back in a few minutes for the candle.
I daren't trust you to put it out yourself. You'd likely set the place on fire." When Marilla had gone Anne looked around her wistfully.
The whitewashed walls were so painfully bare and staring that she thought they must ache over their own bareness.
The floor was bare, too, except for a round braided mat in the middle such as Anne had never seen before. In one corner was the bed, a high, old-fashioned one, with four dark, low-turned posts.
In the other corner was the aforesaid three-cornered table adorned with a fat, red velvet pincushion hard enough to turn the point of the most adventurous pin.
Above it hung a little six-by-eight mirror.
Midway between table and bed was the window, with an icy white muslin frill over it, and opposite it was the wash-stand.
The whole apartment was of a rigidity not to be described in words, but which sent a shiver to the very marrow of Anne's bones.
With a sob she hastily discarded her garments, put on the skimpy nightgown and sprang into bed where she burrowed face downward into the pillow and pulled the clothes over her head.
Matthew was smoking--a sure sign of perturbation of mind.
This is what comes of sending word instead of going ourselves.
Richard Spencer's folks have twisted that message somehow.
One of us will have to drive over and see Mrs. Spencer tomorrow, that's certain.
This girl will have to be sent back to the asylum." "Yes, I suppose so," said Matthew reluctantly. "You _suppose_ so!
Don't you know it?" "Well now, she's a real nice little thing, Marilla.
I suppose--we could hardly be expected to keep her." "I should say not.
What good would she be to us?" "We might be some good to her," said Matthew suddenly and unexpectedly. "Matthew Cuthbert, I believe that child has bewitched you!
I can see as plain as plain that you want to keep her." "Well now, she's a real interesting little thing," persisted Matthew. "You should have heard her talk coming from the station." "Oh, she can talk fast enough.
I saw that at once.
It's nothing in her favor, either.
I don't like children who have so much to say.
I don't want an orphan girl and if I did she isn't the style I'd pick out. There's something I don't understand about her.
No, she's got to be despatched straightway back to where she came from." "I could hire a French boy to help me," said Matthew, "and she'd be company for you." "I'm not suffering for company," said Marilla shortly.
And I'm not going to keep her." "Well now, it's just as you say, of course, Marilla," said Matthew rising and putting his pipe away.
I'm going to bed." To bed went Matthew.
And to bed, when she had put her dishes away, went Marilla, frowning most resolutely.
And up-stairs, in the east gable, a lonely, heart-hungry, friendless child cried herself to sleep. CHAPTER IV.
First came a delightful thrill, as of something very pleasant; then a horrible remembrance.
This was Green Gables and they didn't want her because she wasn't a boy! But it was morning and, yes, it was a cherry-tree in full bloom outside of her window.
Wasn't it a lovely place?
Suppose she wasn't really going to stay here!
She would imagine she was.
There was scope for imagination here. A huge cherry-tree grew outside, so close that its boughs tapped against the house, and it was so thick-set with blossoms that hardly a leaf was to be seen.
On both sides of the house was a big orchard, one of apple-trees and one of cherry-trees, also showered over with blossoms; and their grass was all sprinkled with dandelions.
Don't you feel as if you just loved the world on a morning like this?
And I can hear the brook laughing all the way up here. Have you ever noticed what cheerful things brooks are?
Even in winter-time I've heard them under the ice.
I'm so glad there's a brook near Green Gables.
Perhaps you think it doesn't make any difference to me when you're not going to keep me, but it does.
I shall always like to remember that there is a brook at Green Gables even if I never see it again.
If there wasn't a brook I'd be _haunted_ by the uncomfortable feeling that there ought to be one.
I'm not in the depths of despair this morning.
I never can be in the morning.
Isn't it a splendid thing that there are mornings?
But I feel very sad.
I've just been imagining that it was really me you wanted after all and that I was to stay here for ever and ever.
Wash your face and comb your hair.
Leave the window up and turn your bedclothes back over the foot of the bed.
As a matter of fact, however, she had forgotten to turn back the bedclothes. "I'm pretty hungry this morning," she announced as she slipped into the chair Marilla placed for her.
The world doesn't seem such a howling wilderness as it did last night.
I'm so glad it's a sunshiny morning. But I like rainy mornings real well, too.
All sorts of mornings are interesting, don't you think?
You don't know what's going to happen through the day, and there's so much scope for imagination.
But I'm glad it's not rainy today because it's easier to be cheerful and bear up under affliction on a sunshiny day.
I feel that I have a good deal to bear up under.
It's all very well to read about sorrows and imagine yourself living through them heroically, but it's not so nice when you really come to have them, is it?" "For pity's sake hold your tongue," said Marilla.
You talk entirely too much for a little girl." Thereupon Anne held her tongue so obediently and thoroughly that her continued silence made Marilla rather nervous, as if in the presence of something not exactly natural.
Who would want such a child about the place? Yet Matthew wished to keep her, of all unaccountable things!
Marilla felt that he wanted it just as much this morning as he had the night before, and that he would go on wanting it.
I'm better at looking after children, though.
I've had so much experience at that.
It's such a pity you haven't any here for me to look after." "I don't feel as if I wanted any more children to look after than I've got at present. _You're_ problem enough in all conscience.
What's to be done with you I don't know.
Matthew is a most ridiculous man." "I think he's lovely," said Anne reproachfully.
He is so very sympathetic.
He didn't mind how much I talked--he seemed to like it.
I felt that he was a kindred spirit as soon as ever I saw him." "You're both queer enough, if that's what you mean by kindred spirits," said Marilla with a sniff.
Yes, you may wash the dishes.
Take plenty of hot water, and be sure you dry them well.
I've got enough to attend to this morning for I'll have to drive over to White Sands in the afternoon and see Mrs. Spencer.
You'll come with me and we'll settle what's to be done with you.
After you've finished the dishes go up-stairs and make your bed." Anne washed the dishes deftly enough, as Marilla, who kept a sharp eye on the process, discerned.
If I can't stay here there is no use in my loving Green Gables.
And if I go out there and get acquainted with all those trees and flowers and the orchard and the brook I'll not be able to help loving it.
It's hard enough now, so I won't make it any harder.
I want to go out so much--everything seems to be calling to me, 'Anne, Anne, come out to us.
Anne, Anne, we want a playmate'--but it's better not. There is no use in loving things if you have to be torn from them, is there?
And it's so hard to keep from loving things, isn't it?
That was why I was so glad when I thought I was going to live here.
I thought I'd have so many things to love and nothing to hinder me.
But that brief dream is over.
I am resigned to my fate now, so I don't think I'll go out for fear I'll get unresigned again.
What is the name of that geranium on the window-sill, please?" "That's the apple-scented geranium." "Oh, I don't mean that sort of a name.
I mean just a name you gave it yourself.
Didn't you give it a name?
May I give it one then?
May I call it--let me see--Bonny would do--may I call it Bonny while I'm here?
Oh, do let me!" "Goodness, I don't care.
But where on earth is the sense of naming a geranium?" "Oh, I like things to have handles even if they are only geraniums.
It makes them seem more like people.
How do you know but that it hurts a geranium's feelings just to be called a geranium and nothing else?
You wouldn't like to be called nothing but a woman all the time.
Yes, I shall call it Bonny.
I named that cherry-tree outside my bedroom window this morning.
I called it Snow Queen because it was so white.
She _is_ kind of interesting, as Matthew says.
I can feel already that I'm wondering what on earth she'll say next.
She'll be casting a spell over me, too.
She's cast it over Matthew.
That look he gave me when he went out said everything he said or hinted last night over again.
I wish he was like other men and would talk things out.
A body could answer back then and argue him into reason.
But what's to be done with a man who just _looks?_" Anne had relapsed into reverie, with her chin in her hands and her eyes on the sky, when Marilla returned from her cellar pilgrimage.
There Marilla left her until the early dinner was on the table. "I suppose I can have the mare and buggy this afternoon, Matthew?" said Marilla. Matthew nodded and looked wistfully at Anne.
Marilla intercepted the look and said grimly: "I'm going to drive over to White Sands and settle this thing.
I'll take Anne with me and Mrs. Spencer will probably make arrangements to send her back to Nova Scotia at once.
I'll set your tea out for you and I'll be home in time to milk the cows." Still Matthew said nothing and Marilla had a sense of having wasted words and breath.
There is nothing more aggravating than a man who won't talk back--unless it is a woman who won't. Matthew hitched the sorrel into the buggy in due time and Marilla and Anne set off.
Marilla looked back once as the buggy bounced along and saw that aggravating Matthew leaning over the gate, looking wistfully after them. CHAPTER V.
Anne's History DO you know," said Anne confidentially, "I've made up my mind to enjoy this drive.
It's been my experience that you can nearly always enjoy things if you make up your mind firmly that you will.
Of course, you must make it up _firmly_.
I am not going to think about going back to the asylum while we're having our drive.
I'm just going to think about the drive.
Oh, look, there's one little early wild rose out!
Don't you think it must be glad to be a rose?
Wouldn't it be nice if roses could talk?
I'm sure they could tell us such lovely things.
And isn't pink the most bewitching color in the world?
I love it, but I can't wear it.
Redheaded people can't wear pink, not even in imagination.
My life is a perfect graveyard of buried hopes.
I am so fond of romantic things, and a graveyard full of buried hopes is about as romantic a thing as one can imagine, isn't it?
I'm rather glad I have one.
Are we going across the Lake of Shining Waters today?" "We're not going over Barry's pond, if that's what you mean by your Lake of Shining Waters.
We're going by the shore road." "Shore road sounds nice," said Anne dreamily.
Is it as nice as it sounds?
Just when you said 'shore road' I saw it in a picture in my mind, as quick as that!
And White Sands is a pretty name, too; but I don't like it as well as Avonlea.
Avonlea is a lovely name.
It just sounds like music.
If you'll only let me tell you what I _imagine_ about myself you'll think it ever so much more interesting." "No, I don't want any of your imaginings.
Just you stick to bald facts. Begin at the beginning.
Where were you born and how old are you?" "I was eleven last March," said Anne, resigning herself to bald facts with a little sigh.
And I was born in Bolingbroke, Nova Scotia. My father's name was Walter Shirley, and he was a teacher in the Bolingbroke High School.
My mother's name was Bertha Shirley.
Aren't Walter and Bertha lovely names?
I read in a book once that a rose by any other name would smell as sweet, but I've never been able to believe it.
I don't believe a rose _would_ be as nice if it was called a thistle or a skunk cabbage.
I suppose my father could have been a good man even if he had been called Jedediah; but I'm sure it would have been a cross.
Well, my mother was a teacher in the High School, too, but when she married father she gave up teaching, of course.
A husband was enough responsibility.
Mrs. Thomas said that they were a pair of babies and as poor as church mice.
They went to live in a weeny-teeny little yellow house in Bolingbroke.
I've never seen that house, but I've imagined it thousands of times.
I think it must have had honeysuckle over the parlor window and lilacs in the front yard and lilies of the valley just inside the gate.
Yes, and muslin curtains in all the windows.
Muslin curtains give a house such an air.
I was born in that house.
Mrs. Thomas said I was the homeliest baby she ever saw, I was so scrawny and tiny and nothing but eyes, but that mother thought I was perfectly beautiful.
I should think a mother would be a better judge than a poor woman who came in to scrub, wouldn't you?
I'm glad she was satisfied with me anyhow; I would feel so sad if I thought I was a disappointment to her--because she didn't live very long after that, you see.
She died of fever when I was just three months old.
I do wish she'd lived long enough for me to remember calling her mother. I think it would be so sweet to say 'mother,' don't you?
And father died four days afterwards from fever too.
That left me an orphan and folks were at their wits' end, so Mrs. Thomas said, what to do with me.
You see, nobody wanted me even then.
It seems to be my fate. Father and mother had both come from places far away and it was well known they hadn't any relatives living.
Finally Mrs. Thomas said she'd take me, though she was poor and had a drunken husband.
She brought me up by hand.
Do you know if there is anything in being brought up by hand that ought to make people who are brought up that way better than other people?
I helped look after the Thomas children--there were four of them younger than me--and I can tell you they took a lot of looking after.
Then Mr. Thomas was killed falling under a train and his mother offered to take Mrs. Thomas and the children, but she didn't want me.
Mrs. Thomas was at _her_ wits' end, so she said, what to do with me.
Then Mrs. Hammond from up the river came down and said she'd take me, seeing I was handy with children, and I went up the river to live with her in a little clearing among the stumps.
It was a very lonesome place.
I'm sure I could never have lived there if I hadn't had an imagination.
Mr. Hammond worked a little sawmill up there, and Mrs. Hammond had eight children.
She had twins three times.
I like babies in moderation, but twins three times in succession is _too much_.
I told Mrs. Hammond so firmly, when the last pair came.
I used to get so dreadfully tired carrying them about. "I lived up river with Mrs. Hammond over two years, and then Mr. Hammond died and Mrs. Hammond broke up housekeeping.
She divided her children among her relatives and went to the States.
I had to go to the asylum at Hopeton, because nobody would take me.
They didn't want me at the asylum, either; they said they were overcrowded as it was.
But they had to take me and I was there four months until Mrs. Spencer came." Anne finished up with another sigh, of relief this time.
Evidently she did not like talking about her experiences in a world that had not wanted her. "Did you ever go to school?" demanded Marilla, turning the sorrel mare down the shore road. "Not a great deal.
I went a little the last year I stayed with Mrs. Thomas.
When I went up river we were so far from a school that I couldn't walk it in winter and there was vacation in summer, so I could only go in the spring and fall.
But of course I went while I was at the asylum.
Don't you just love poetry that gives you a crinkly feeling up and down your back?
There is a piece in the Fifth Reader--'The Downfall of Poland'--that is just full of thrills.
Her sensitive little face suddenly flushed scarlet and embarrassment sat on her brow.
Oh, they _meant_ to be--I know they meant to be just as good and kind as possible.
And when people mean to be good to you, you don't mind very much when they're not quite--always.
They had a good deal to worry them, you know.
It's very trying to have a drunken husband, you see; and it must be very trying to have twins three times in succession, don't you think?
But I feel sure they meant to be good to me." Marilla asked no more questions.
Anne gave herself up to a silent rapture over the shore road and Marilla guided the sorrel abstractedly while she pondered deeply.
Pity was suddenly stirring in her heart for the child.
What a starved, unloved life she had had--a life of drudgery and poverty and neglect; for Marilla was shrewd enough to read between the lines of Anne's history and divine the truth.
No wonder she had been so delighted at the prospect of a real home.
It was a pity she had to be sent back.
What if she, Marilla, should indulge Matthew's unaccountable whim and let her stay?
He was set on it; and the child seemed a nice, teachable little thing. "She's got too much to say," thought Marilla, "but she might be trained out of that.
And there's nothing rude or slangy in what she does say. She's ladylike.
It's likely her people were nice folks." The shore road was "woodsy and wild and lonesome.
On the right hand, scrub firs, their spirits quite unbroken by long years of tussle with the gulf winds, grew thickly.
On the left were the steep red sandstone cliffs, so near the track in places that a mare of less steadiness than the sorrel might have tried the nerves of the people behind her.
I lived it over in happy dreams for years. But this shore is nicer than the Marysville shore.
Would you like to be a gull?
I think I would--that is, if I couldn't be a human girl.
Don't you think it would be nice to wake up at sunrise and swoop down over the water and away out over that lovely blue all day; and then at night to fly back to one's nest?
Oh, I can just imagine myself doing it.
What big house is that just ahead, please?" "That's the White Sands Hotel.
Mr. Kirke runs it, but the season hasn't begun yet.
There are heaps of Americans come there for the summer.
They think this shore is just about right." "I was afraid it might be Mrs. Spencer's place," said Anne mournfully. "I don't want to get there.
Somehow, it will seem like the end of everything." CHAPTER VI.
Marilla Makes Up Her Mind GET there they did, however, in due season.
You'll put your horse in?
And how are you, Anne?" "I'm as well as can be expected, thank you," said Anne smilelessly.
A blight seemed to have descended on her. "I suppose we'll stay a little while to rest the mare," said Marilla, "but I promised Matthew I'd be home early.
The fact is, Mrs. Spencer, there's been a queer mistake somewhere, and I've come over to see where it is.
We sent word, Matthew and I, for you to bring us a boy from the asylum.
It's too bad; but it certainly wasn't my fault, you see, Miss Cuthbert.
I did the best I could and I thought I was following your instructions.
Nancy is a terrible flighty thing.
I've often had to scold her well for her heedlessness." "It was our own fault," said Marilla resignedly.
We should have come to you ourselves and not left an important message to be passed along by word of mouth in that fashion.
Anyhow, the mistake has been made and the only thing to do now is to set it right.
Can we send the child back to the asylum?
I suppose they'll take her back, won't they?" "I suppose so," said Mrs. Spencer thoughtfully, "but I don't think it will be necessary to send her back.
Mrs. Peter Blewett was up here yesterday, and she was saying to me how much she wished she'd sent by me for a little girl to help her.
Mrs. Peter has a large family, you know, and she finds it hard to get help.
Anne will be the very girl for her.
I call it positively providential." Marilla did not look as if she thought Providence had much to do with the matter.
But she had heard of her.
A terrible worker and driver," Mrs. Peter was said to be; and discharged servant girls told fearsome tales of her temper and stinginess, and her family of pert, quarrelsome children.
That is real lucky, for we can settle the matter right away.
Take the armchair, Miss Cuthbert.
Anne, you sit here on the ottoman and don't wriggle. Let me take your hats.
Flora Jane, go out and put the kettle on.
We were just saying how fortunate it was you happened along.
Let me introduce you two ladies.
Please excuse me for just a moment.
I forgot to tell Flora Jane to take the buns out of the oven." Mrs. Spencer whisked away, after pulling up the blinds.
Anne, sitting mutely on the ottoman, with her hands clasped tightly in her lap, stared at Mrs. Blewett as one fascinated.
Was she to be given into the keeping of this sharp-faced, sharp-eyed woman?
She felt a lump coming up in her throat and her eyes smarted painfully.
I was under the impression that Mr. and Miss Cuthbert wanted a little girl to adopt.
I was certainly told so.
But it seems it was a boy they wanted.
You don't look as if there was much to you.
I don't know but the wiry ones are the best after all.
Well, if I take you you'll have to be a good girl, you know--good and smart and respectful. I'll expect you to earn your keep, and no mistake about that.
Yes, I suppose I might as well take her off your hands, Miss Cuthbert.
The baby's awful fractious, and I'm clean worn out attending to him.
Moreover, she did not fancy Mrs. Blewett.
To hand a sensitive, "highstrung" child over to such a woman!
No, she could not take the responsibility of doing that! "Well, I don't know," she said slowly.
I didn't say that Matthew and I had absolutely decided that we wouldn't keep her.
In fact, I may say that Matthew is disposed to keep her.
I just came over to find out how the mistake had occurred.
I think I'd better take her home again and talk it over with Matthew.
I feel that I oughtn't to decide on anything without consulting him.
If we make up our mind not to keep her we'll bring or send her over to you tomorrow night.
If we don't you may know that she is going to stay with us.
Will that suit you, Mrs. Blewett?" "I suppose it'll have to," said Mrs. Blewett ungraciously. During Marilla's speech a sunrise had been dawning on Anne's face.
First the look of despair faded out; then came a faint flush of hope; her eyes grew deep and bright as morning stars.
Did you really say it?
Or did I only imagine that you did?" "I think you'd better learn to control that imagination of yours, Anne, if you can't distinguish between what is real and what isn't," said Marilla crossly.
Yes, you did hear me say just that and no more.
It isn't decided yet and perhaps we will conclude to let Mrs. Blewett take you after all.
She certainly needs you much more than I do." "I'd rather go back to the asylum than go to live with her," said Anne passionately.
Marilla from afar had noted him prowling along it and guessed his motive.
She was prepared for the relief she read in his face when he saw that she had at least brought Anne back with her.
But she said nothing, to him, relative to the affair, until they were both out in the yard behind the barn milking the cows.
And, since you seem to want her, I suppose I'm willing--or have to be.
I've been thinking over the idea until I've got kind of used to it.
It seems a sort of duty.
I've never brought up a child, especially a girl, and I dare say I'll make a terrible mess of it.
But I'll do my best.
So far as I'm concerned, Matthew, she may stay." Matthew's shy face was a glow of delight. "Well now, I reckoned you'd come to see it in that light, Marilla," he said.
She's such an interesting little thing." "It'd be more to the point if you could say she was a useful little thing," retorted Marilla, "but I'll make it my business to see she's trained to be that.
And mind, Matthew, you're not to go interfering with my methods.
Perhaps an old maid doesn't know much about bringing up a child, but I guess she knows more than an old bachelor.
So you just leave me to manage her.
When I fail it'll be time enough to put your oar in." "There, there, Marilla, you can have your own way," said Matthew reassuringly.
Only be as good and kind to her as you can without spoiling her.
She'd be so excited that she wouldn't sleep a wink.
Marilla Cuthbert, you're fairly in for it.
Did you ever suppose you'd see the day when you'd be adopting an orphan girl?
It's surprising enough; but not so surprising as that Matthew should be at the bottom of it, him that always seemed to have such a mortal dread of little girls.
Anyhow, we've decided on the experiment and goodness only knows what will come of it." CHAPTER VII.
Anne Says Her Prayers WHEN Marilla took Anne up to bed that night she said stiffly: "Now, Anne, I noticed last night that you threw your clothes all about the floor when you took them off.
That is a very untidy habit, and I can't allow it at all.
As soon as you take off any article of clothing fold it neatly and place it on the chair.
I haven't any use at all for little girls who aren't neat." "I was so harrowed up in my mind last night that I didn't think about my clothes at all," said Anne.
I'll fold them nicely tonight.
They always made us do that at the asylum.
Half the time, though, I'd forget, I'd be in such a hurry to get into bed nice and quiet and imagine things." "You'll have to remember a little better if you stay here," admonished Marilla.
There, that looks something like.
Say your prayers now and get into bed." "I never say any prayers," announced Anne. Marilla looked horrified astonishment. "Why, Anne, what do you mean?
Were you never taught to say your prayers? God always wants little girls to say their prayers.
You're not quite a heathen.
Where did you learn that?" "Oh, at the asylum Sunday-school.
They made us learn the whole catechism.
I liked it pretty well.
There's something splendid about some of the words.
It has such a roll to it--just like a big organ playing.
You couldn't quite call it poetry, I suppose, but it sounds a lot like it, doesn't it?" "We're not talking about poetry, Anne--we are talking about saying your prayers.
Don't you know it's a terrible wicked thing not to say your prayers every night?
I'm afraid you are a very bad little girl." "You'd find it easier to be bad than good if you had red hair," said Anne reproachfully.
People who haven't red hair don't know what trouble is.
Mrs. Thomas told me that God made my hair red _on purpose_, and I've never cared about Him since.
And anyhow I'd always be too tired at night to bother saying prayers.
People who have to look after twins can't be expected to say their prayers.
I'd do anything to oblige you.
But you'll have to tell me what to say for this once.
After I get into bed I'll imagine out a real nice prayer to say always.
I believe that it will be quite interesting, now that I come to think of it." "You must kneel down," said Marilla in embarrassment. Anne knelt at Marilla's knee and looked up gravely. "Why must people kneel down to pray?
If I really wanted to pray I'll tell you what I'd do.
I'd go out into a great big field all alone or into the deep, deep woods, and I'd look up into the sky--up--up--up--into that lovely blue sky that looks as if there was no end to its blueness.
And then I'd just _feel_ a prayer.
What am I to say?" Marilla felt more embarrassed than ever.
She had intended to teach Anne the childish classic, "Now I lay me down to sleep.
Just thank God for your blessings and ask Him humbly for the things you want." "Well, I'll do my best," promised Anne, burying her face in Marilla's lap.
Gracious heavenly Father--that's the way the ministers say it in church, so I suppose it's all right in private prayer, isn't it?" she interjected, lifting her head for a moment.
Gracious heavenly Father, I thank Thee for the White Way of Delight and the Lake of Shining Waters and Bonny and the Snow Queen.
I'm really extremely grateful for them.
And that's all the blessings I can think of just now to thank Thee for.
As for the things I want, they're so numerous that it would take a great deal of time to name them all, so I will only mention the two most important.
Please let me stay at Green Gables; and please let me be good-looking when I grow up.
I remain, "Yours respectfully, Anne Shirley. "There, did I do all right?" she asked eagerly, getting up.
She tucked the child up in bed, mentally vowing that she should be taught a prayer the very next day, and was leaving the room with the light when Anne called her back. "I've just thought of it now.
I should have said 'Amen' in place of 'yours respectfully,' shouldn't I?--the way the ministers do.
I'd forgotten it, but I felt a prayer should be finished off in some way, so I put in the other.
Do you suppose it will make any difference?" "I--I don't suppose it will," said Marilla.
Go to sleep now like a good child.
She's next door to a perfect heathen.
Will you believe that she never said a prayer in her life till tonight?
I'll send to the manse tomorrow and borrow the Peep of the Day series, that's what I'll do.
And she shall go to Sunday-school just as soon as I can get some suitable clothes made for her.
I foresee that I shall have my hands full.
Well, well, we can't get through this world without our share of trouble.
I've had a pretty easy life of it so far, but my time has come at last and I suppose I'll just have to make the best of it." CHAPTER VIII.
Anne's Bringing-up Is Begun FOR reasons best known to herself, Marilla did not tell Anne that she was to stay at Green Gables until the next afternoon.
During the forenoon she kept the child busy with various tasks and watched over her with a keen eye while she did them.
I've tried to be patient all the morning, but I really feel that I cannot bear not knowing any longer.
It's a dreadful feeling. Please tell me." "You haven't scalded the dishcloth in clean hot water as I told you to do," said Marilla immovably.
Just go and do it before you ask any more questions, Anne." Anne went and attended to the dishcloth.
Then she returned to Marilla and fastened imploring eyes on the latter's face. "Well," said Marilla, unable to find any excuse for deferring her explanation longer, "I suppose I might as well tell you.
Matthew and I have decided to keep you--that is, if you will try to be a good little girl and show yourself grateful.
Why, child, whatever is the matter?" "I'm crying," said Anne in a tone of bewilderment.
I can't think why. I'm glad as glad can be.
Oh, _glad_ doesn't seem the right word at all.
I was glad about the White Way and the cherry blossoms--but this!
Oh, it's something more than glad.
I'll try to be so good.
It will be uphill work, I expect, for Mrs. Thomas often told me I was desperately wicked.
However, I'll do my very best.
But can you tell me why I'm crying?" "I suppose it's because you're all excited and worked up," said Marilla disapprovingly.
Sit down on that chair and try to calm yourself.
I'm afraid you both cry and laugh far too easily.
Yes, you can stay here and we will try to do right by you.
You must go to school; but it's only a fortnight till vacation so it isn't worth while for you to start before it opens again in September." "What am I to call you?" asked Anne.
Shall I always say Miss Cuthbert? Can I call you Aunt Marilla?" "No; you'll call me just plain Marilla.
I'm not used to being called Miss Cuthbert and it would make me nervous." "It sounds awfully disrespectful to just say Marilla," protested Anne. "I guess there'll be nothing disrespectful in it if you're careful to speak respectfully.
Everybody, young and old, in Avonlea calls me Marilla except the minister.
He says Miss Cuthbert--when he thinks of it." "I'd love to call you Aunt Marilla," said Anne wistfully.
I've never had an aunt or any relation at all--not even a grandmother.
It would make me feel as if I really belonged to you.
Anne drew a long breath.
Oh, Miss--Marilla, how much you miss!" "I don't believe in imagining things different from what they really are," retorted Marilla.
When the Lord puts us in certain circumstances He doesn't mean for us to imagine them away.
Go into the sitting room, Anne--be sure your feet are clean and don't let any flies in--and bring me out the illustrated card that's on the mantelpiece.
The Lord's Prayer is on it and you'll devote your spare time this afternoon to learning it off by heart.
There's to be no more of such praying as I heard last night." "I suppose I was very awkward," said Anne apologetically, "but then, you see, I'd never had any practice.
You couldn't really expect a person to pray very well the first time she tried, could you?
I thought out a splendid prayer after I went to bed, just as I promised you I would. It was nearly as long as a minister's and so poetical.
But would you believe it?
I couldn't remember one word when I woke up this morning. And I'm afraid I'll never be able to think out another one as good. Somehow, things never are so good when they're thought out a second time.
Have you ever noticed that?" "Here is something for you to notice, Anne.
When I tell you to do a thing I want you to obey me at once and not stand stock-still and discourse about it.
Just you go and do as I bid you." Anne promptly departed for the sitting-room across the hall; she failed to return; after waiting ten minutes Marilla laid down her knitting and marched after her with a grim expression.
She found Anne standing motionless before a picture hanging on the wall between the two windows, with her eyes astar with dreams.
She looks lonely and sad, don't you think?
I guess she hadn't any father or mother of her own.
But she wanted to be blessed, too, so she just crept shyly up on the outside of the crowd, hoping nobody would notice her--except Him.
I'm sure I know just how she felt.
Her heart must have beat and her hands must have got cold, like mine did when I asked you if I could stay.
She was afraid He mightn't notice her.
But it's likely He did, don't you think?
But I wish the artist hadn't painted Him so sorrowful-looking.
All His pictures are like that, if you've noticed.
But I don't believe He could really have looked so sad or the children would have been afraid of Him." "Anne," said Marilla, wondering why she had not broken into this speech long before, "you shouldn't talk that way.
It's irreverent--positively irreverent." Anne's eyes marveled. "Why, I felt just as reverent as could be.
I'm sure I didn't mean to be irreverent." "Well, I don't suppose you did--but it doesn't sound right to talk so familiarly about such things.
And another thing, Anne, when I send you after something you're to bring it at once and not fall into mooning and imagining before pictures.
Take that card and come right to the kitchen.
I've heard it before--I heard the superintendent of the asylum Sunday-school say it over once.
But I didn't like it then.
He had such a cracked voice and he prayed it so mournfully.
I really felt sure he thought praying was a disagreeable duty.
This isn't poetry, but it makes me feel just the same way poetry does.
Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be Thy name.' That is just like a line of music.
I've dreamed of meeting her all my life.
I never really supposed I would, but so many of my loveliest dreams have come true all at once that perhaps this one will, too.
Do you think it's possible?" "Diana Barry lives over at Orchard Slope and she's about your age.
She's a very nice little girl, and perhaps she will be a playmate for you when she comes home.
She's visiting her aunt over at Carmody just now.
You'll have to be careful how you behave yourself, though.
Mrs. Barry is a very particular woman.
She won't let Diana play with any little girl who isn't nice and good." Anne looked at Marilla through the apple blossoms, her eyes aglow with interest. "What is Diana like?
Her hair isn't red, is it?
It's bad enough to have red hair myself, but I positively couldn't endure it in a bosom friend." "Diana is a very pretty little girl.
She has black eyes and hair and rosy cheeks.
Next to being beautiful oneself--and that's impossible in my case--it would be best to have a beautiful bosom friend.
When I lived with Mrs. Thomas she had a bookcase in her sitting room with glass doors.
There weren't any books in it; Mrs. Thomas kept her best china and her preserves there--when she had any preserves to keep.
One of the doors was broken.
Mr. Thomas smashed it one night when he was slightly intoxicated.
But the other was whole and I used to pretend that my reflection in it was another little girl who lived in it.
I called her Katie Maurice, and we were very intimate.
I used to talk to her by the hour, especially on Sunday, and tell her everything. Katie was the comfort and consolation of my life.
And then Katie Maurice would have taken me by the hand and led me out into a wonderful place, all flowers and sunshine and fairies, and we would have lived there happy for ever after.
When I went to live with Mrs. Hammond it just broke my heart to leave Katie Maurice.
She felt it dreadfully, too, I know she did, for she was crying when she kissed me good-bye through the bookcase door.
There was no bookcase at Mrs. Hammond's.
But just up the river a little way from the house there was a long green little valley, and the loveliest echo lived there.
It echoed back every word you said, even if you didn't talk a bit loud.
So I imagined that it was a little girl called Violetta and we were great friends and I loved her almost as well as I loved Katie Maurice--not quite, but almost, you know.
The night before I went to the asylum I said good-bye to Violetta, and oh, her good-bye came back to me in such sad, sad tones.
I don't approve of such goings-on.
You seem to half believe your own imaginations.
It will be well for you to have a real live friend to put such nonsense out of your head.
But don't let Mrs. Barry hear you talking about your Katie Maurices and your Violettas or she'll think you tell stories." "Oh, I won't.
I couldn't talk of them to everybody--their memories are too sacred for that.
But I thought I'd like to have you know about them. Oh, look, here's a big bee just tumbled out of an apple blossom.
Just think what a lovely place to live--in an apple blossom!
Fancy going to sleep in it when the wind was rocking it.
If I wasn't a human girl I think I'd like to be a bee and live among the flowers." "Yesterday you wanted to be a sea-gull," sniffed Marilla.
I think you are very fickle minded.
I told you to learn that prayer and not talk. But it seems impossible for you to stop talking if you've got anybody that will listen to you.
So go up to your room and learn it." "Oh, I know it pretty nearly all now--all but just the last line." "Well, never mind, do as I tell you.
You should have left them on the tree in the first place." "I did feel a little that way, too," said Anne.
I kind of felt I shouldn't shorten their lovely lives by picking them--I wouldn't want to be picked if I were an apple blossom.
But the temptation was _irresistible_.
I learned that last sentence coming upstairs.
Now I'm going to imagine things into this room so that they'll always stay imagined.
The floor is covered with a white velvet carpet with pink roses all over it and there are pink silk curtains at the windows.
The walls are hung with gold and silver brocade tapestry.
I never saw any mahogany, but it does sound _so_ luxurious.
My hair is of midnight darkness and my skin is a clear ivory pallor.
My name is the Lady Cordelia Fitzgerald.
No, it isn't--I can't make _that_ seem real." She danced up to the little looking-glass and peered into it.
Her pointed freckled face and solemn gray eyes peered back at her. "You're only Anne of Green Gables," she said earnestly, "and I see you, just as you are looking now, whenever I try to imagine I'm the Lady Cordelia.
But it's a million times nicer to be Anne of Green Gables than Anne of nowhere in particular, isn't it?" She bent forward, kissed her reflection affectionately, and betook herself to the open window. "Dear Snow Queen, good afternoon.
And good afternoon, dear birches down in the hollow.
And good afternoon, dear gray house up on the hill. I wonder if Diana is to be my bosom friend.
I hope she will, and I shall love her very much.
But I must never quite forget Katie Maurice and Violetta.
They would feel so hurt if I did and I'd hate to hurt anybody's feelings, even a little bookcase girl's or a little echo girl's.
Mrs. Rachel Lynde Is Properly Horrified ANNE had been a fortnight at Green Gables before Mrs. Lynde arrived to inspect her.
Already she was acquainted with every tree and shrub about the place.
When details were exhausted Mrs. Rachel introduced the real reason of her call. "I've been hearing some surprising things about you and Matthew." "I don't suppose you are any more surprised than I am myself," said Marilla.
I'm getting over my surprise now." "It was too bad there was such a mistake," said Mrs. Rachel sympathetically.
Couldn't you have sent her back?" "I suppose we could, but we decided not to.
Matthew took a fancy to her. And I must say I like her myself--although I admit she has her faults. The house seems a different place already.
I suppose you'd like to see Anne.
I'll call her in." Anne came running in presently, her face sparkling with the delight of her orchard rovings; but, abashed at finding the delight herself in the unexpected presence of a stranger, she halted confusedly inside the door.
She certainly was an odd-looking little creature in the short tight wincey dress she had worn from the asylum, below which her thin legs seemed ungracefully long.
Mrs. Rachel was one of those delightful and popular people who pride themselves on speaking their mind without fear or favor.
She's terrible skinny and homely, Marilla. Come here, child, and let me have a look at you.
Lawful heart, did any one ever see such freckles?
And hair as red as carrots!
Come here, child, I say." Anne "came there," but not exactly as Mrs. Rachel expected.
I hate you--I hate you--I hate you--" a louder stamp with each assertion of hatred.
How dare you call me skinny and ugly?
How dare you say I'm freckled and redheaded?
How would you like to have such things said about you?
How would you like to be told that you are fat and clumsy and probably hadn't a spark of imagination in you?
I don't care if I do hurt your feelings by saying so!
I hope I hurt them.
You have hurt mine worse than they were ever hurt before even by Mrs. Thomas' intoxicated husband.
And I'll _never_ forgive you for it, never, never!" Stamp!
She's been very naughty and I'll have to give her a talking to about it.
But we must make allowances for her.
She's never been taught what is right.
And you _were_ too hard on her, Rachel." Marilla could not help tacking on that last sentence, although she was again surprised at herself for doing it.
Oh, no, I'm not vexed--don't worry yourself.
I'm too sorry for you to leave any room for anger in my mind.
You'll have your own troubles with that child.
But if you'll take my advice--which I suppose you won't do, although I've brought up ten children and buried two--you'll do that 'talking to' you mention with a fair-sized birch switch.
I should think _that_ would be the most effective language for that kind of a child.
Her temper matches her hair I guess.
I hope you'll come down to see me often as usual.
But you can't expect me to visit here again in a hurry, if I'm liable to be flown at and insulted in such a fashion.
Then Marilla suddenly became aware of an uncomfortable and rebuking consciousness that she felt more humiliation over this than sorrow over the discovery of such a serious defect in Anne's disposition.
And how was she to punish her?
The amiable suggestion of the birch switch--to the efficiency of which all of Mrs. Rachel's own children could have borne smarting testimony--did not appeal to Marilla.
She did not believe she could whip a child.
Aren't you ashamed of yourself?" "She hadn't any right to call me ugly and redheaded," retorted Anne, evasive and defiant. "You hadn't any right to fly into such a fury and talk the way you did to her, Anne.
I was ashamed of you--thoroughly ashamed of you.
I wanted you to behave nicely to Mrs. Lynde, and instead of that you have disgraced me.
I'm sure I don't know why you should lose your temper like that just because Mrs. Lynde said you were red-haired and homely.
You say it yourself often enough." "Oh, but there's such a difference between saying a thing yourself and hearing other people say it," wailed Anne.
You may know a thing is so, but you can't help hoping other people don't quite think it is.
I suppose you think I have an awful temper, but I couldn't help it.
When she said those things something just rose right up in me and choked me. I _had_ to fly out at her." "Well, you made a fine exhibition of yourself I must say.
Mrs. Lynde will have a nice story to tell about you everywhere--and she'll tell it, too.
She had been a very small child when she had heard one aunt say of her to another, "What a pity she is such a dark, homely little thing.
Marilla was every day of fifty before the sting had gone out of that memory. "I don't say that I think Mrs. Lynde was exactly right in saying what she did to you, Anne," she admitted in a softer tone.
But that is no excuse for such behavior on your part.
She was a stranger and an elderly person and my visitor--all three very good reasons why you should have been respectful to her.
You can punish me in any way you like, Marilla.
You can shut me up in a dark, damp dungeon inhabited by snakes and toads and feed me only on bread and water and I shall not complain.
But I cannot ask Mrs. Lynde to forgive me." "We're not in the habit of shutting people up in dark damp dungeons," said Marilla drily, "especially as they're rather scarce in Avonlea.
I'm sorry I've vexed you; but I'm _glad_ I told her just what I did.
It was a great satisfaction.
I can't say I'm sorry when I'm not, can I?
I can't even _imagine_ I'm sorry." "Perhaps your imagination will be in better working order by the morning," said Marilla, rising to depart.
You'll have the night to think over your conduct in and come to a better frame of mind.
She was as angry with herself as with Anne, because, whenever she recalled Mrs. Rachel's dumbfounded countenance her lips twitched with amusement and she felt a most reprehensible desire to laugh. CHAPTER X.
Anne's Apology MARILLA said nothing to Matthew about the affair that evening; but when Anne proved still refractory the next morning an explanation had to be made to account for her absence from the breakfast table.
You know that Anne's behavior was dreadful, and yet you take her part!
I suppose you'll be saying next thing that she oughtn't to be punished at all!" "Well now--no--not exactly," said Matthew uneasily.
I reckon she ought to be punished a little.
But don't be too hard on her, Marilla. Recollect she hasn't ever had anyone to teach her right.
You're--you're going to give her something to eat, aren't you?" "When did you ever hear of me starving people into good behavior?" demanded Marilla indignantly.
She'll have her meals regular, and I'll carry them up to her myself.
But she'll stay up there until she's willing to apologize to Mrs. Lynde, and that's final, Matthew." Breakfast, dinner, and supper were very silent meals--for Anne still remained obdurate.
After each meal Marilla carried a well-filled tray to the east gable and brought it down later on not noticeably depleted. Matthew eyed its last descent with a troubled eye.
As a general thing Matthew gravitated between the kitchen and the little bedroom off the hall where he slept; once in a while he ventured uncomfortably into the parlor or sitting room when the minister came to tea.
Very small and unhappy she looked, and Matthew's heart smote him.
He softly closed the door and tiptoed over to her. "Anne," he whispered, as if afraid of being overheard, "how are you making it, Anne?" Anne smiled wanly. "Pretty well.
I imagine a good deal, and that helps to pass the time.
Of course, it's rather lonesome.
Well now, Anne, don't you think you'd better do it and have it over with?" he whispered. "It'll have to be done sooner or later, you know, for Marilla's a dreadful determined woman--dreadful determined, Anne.
Do it right off, I say, and have it over." "Do you mean apologize to Mrs. Lynde?" "Yes--apologize--that's the very word," said Matthew eagerly.
Just smooth it over so to speak.
That's what I was trying to get at." "I suppose I could do it to oblige you," said Anne thoughtfully.
It would be true enough to say I am sorry, because I _am_ sorry now.
I wasn't a bit sorry last night.
I was mad clear through, and I stayed mad all night.
I know I did because I woke up three times and I was just furious every time.
But this morning it was over.
I wasn't in a temper anymore--and it left a dreadful sort of goneness, too.
I felt so ashamed of myself.
But I just couldn't think of going and telling Mrs. Lynde so.
It would be so humiliating.
I made up my mind I'd stay shut up here forever rather than do that.
But still--I'd do anything for you--if you really want me to--" "Well now, of course I do.
It's terrible lonesome downstairs without you.
Just go and smooth things over--that's a good girl." "Very well," said Anne resignedly.
I'll tell Marilla as soon as she comes in I've repented." "That's right--that's right, Anne.
But don't tell Marilla I said anything about it.
He fled hastily to the remotest corner of the horse pasture lest Marilla should suspect what he had been up to.
Marilla's crispness gave no sign of her relief.
She lifted her head and stepped lightly along, her eyes fixed on the sunset sky and an air of subdued exhilaration about her.
Marilla beheld the change disapprovingly.
But Marilla could not rid herself of the notion that something in her scheme of punishment was going askew.
Anne had no business to look so rapt and radiant. Rapt and radiant Anne continued until they were in the very presence of Mrs. Lynde, who was sitting knitting by her kitchen window.
Mournful penitence appeared on every feature.
Before a word was spoken Anne suddenly went down on her knees before the astonished Mrs. Rachel and held out her hands beseechingly. "Oh, Mrs. Lynde, I am so extremely sorry," she said with a quiver in her voice.
I could never express all my sorrow, no, not if I used up a whole dictionary.
You must just imagine it.
I behaved terribly to you--and I've disgraced the dear friends, Matthew and Marilla, who have let me stay at Green Gables although I'm not a boy.
I'm a dreadfully wicked and ungrateful girl, and I deserve to be punished and cast out by respectable people forever.
It was very wicked of me to fly into a temper because you told me the truth.
It _was_ the truth; every word you said was true.
My hair is red and I'm freckled and skinny and ugly. What I said to you was true, too, but I shouldn't have said it.
Oh, Mrs. Lynde, please, please, forgive me.
If you refuse it will be a lifelong sorrow on a poor little orphan girl, would you, even if she had a dreadful temper?
Oh, I am sure you wouldn't.
Please say you forgive me, Mrs. Lynde." Anne clasped her hands together, bowed her head, and waited for the word of judgment. There was no mistaking her sincerity--it breathed in every tone of her voice.
Both Marilla and Mrs. Lynde recognized its unmistakable ring. But the former understood in dismay that Anne was actually enjoying her valley of humiliation--was reveling in the thoroughness of her abasement.
Where was the wholesome punishment upon which she, Marilla, had plumed herself?
Anne had turned it into a species of positive pleasure. Good Mrs. Lynde, not being overburdened with perception, did not see this.
She only perceived that Anne had made a very thorough apology and all resentment vanished from her kindly, if somewhat officious, heart. "There, there, get up, child," she said heartily.
Of course I forgive you.
I guess I was a little too hard on you, anyway.
But I'm such an outspoken person.
You just mustn't mind me, that's what.
I wouldn't be a mite surprised if yours did, too--not a mite." "Oh, Mrs. Lynde!
Anne drew a long breath as she rose to her feet.
You have given me a hope.
I shall always feel that you are a benefactor.
Oh, I could endure anything if I only thought my hair would be a handsome auburn when I grew up.
It would be so much easier to be good if one's hair was a handsome auburn, don't you think?
And now may I go out into your garden and sit on that bench under the apple-trees while you and Marilla are talking?
There is so much more scope for imagination out there." "Laws, yes, run along, child.
And you can pick a bouquet of them white June lilies over in the corner if you like." As the door closed behind Anne, Mrs. Lynde got briskly up to light a lamp. "She's a real odd little thing.
Take this chair, Marilla; it's easier than the one you've got; I just keep that for the hired boy to sit on.
Yes, she certainly is an odd child, but there is something kind of taking about her after all.
I don't feel so surprised at you and Matthew keeping her as I did--nor so sorry for you, either.
She may turn out all right.
Of course, she has a queer way of expressing herself--a little too--well, too kind of forcible, you know; but she'll likely get over that now that she's come to live among civilized folks.
And then, her temper's pretty quick, I guess; but there's one comfort, a child that has a quick temper, just blaze up and cool down, ain't never likely to be sly or deceitful.
Preserve me from a sly child, that's what.
I thought since I had to do it I might as well do it thoroughly." "You did it thoroughly, all right enough," was Marilla's comment. Marilla was dismayed at finding herself inclined to laugh over the recollection.
She had also an uneasy feeling that she ought to scold Anne for apologizing so well; but then, that was ridiculous!
She compromised with her conscience by saying severely: "I hope you won't have occasion to make many more such apologies.
I hope you'll try to control your temper now, Anne." "That wouldn't be so hard if people wouldn't twit me about my looks," said Anne with a sigh.
I don't get cross about other things; but I'm _so_ tired of being twitted about my hair and it just makes me boil right over.
Do you suppose my hair will really be a handsome auburn when I grow up?" "You shouldn't think so much about your looks, Anne.
I'm afraid you are a very vain little girl." "How can I be vain when I know I'm homely?" protested Anne.
I love pretty things; and I hate to look in the glass and see something that isn't pretty.
It makes me feel so sorrowful--just as I feel when I look at any ugly thing.
I pity it because it isn't beautiful." "Handsome is as handsome does," quoted Marilla.
I've had that said to me before, but I have my doubts about it," remarked skeptical Anne, sniffing at her narcissi.
Oh, aren't these flowers sweet!
It was lovely of Mrs. Lynde to give them to me.
I have no hard feelings against Mrs. Lynde now.
It gives you a lovely, comfortable feeling to apologize and be forgiven, doesn't it?
Aren't the stars bright tonight?
If you could live in a star, which one would you pick?
A little gypsy wind came down it to meet them, laden with the spicy perfume of young dew-wet ferns.
Far up in the shadows a cheerful light gleamed out through the trees from the kitchen at Green Gables.
Anne suddenly came close to Marilla and slipped her hand into the older woman's hard palm. "It's lovely to be going home and know it's home," she said.
I love Green Gables already, and I never loved any place before.
No place ever seemed like home.
Oh, Marilla, I'm so happy.
I could pray right now and not find it a bit hard." Something warm and pleasant welled up in Marilla's heart at touch of that thin little hand in her own--a throb of the maternity she had missed, perhaps.
Its very unaccustomedness and sweetness disturbed her.
She hastened to restore her sensations to their normal calm by inculcating a moral. "If you'll be a good girl you'll always be happy, Anne.
And you should never find it hard to say your prayers." "Saying one's prayers isn't exactly the same thing as praying," said Anne meditatively.
But I'm going to imagine that I'm the wind that is blowing up there in those tree tops.
So I'll not talk any more just now, Marilla." "Thanks be to goodness for that," breathed Marilla in devout relief. CHAPTER XI.
Anne's Impressions of Sunday-school WELL, how do you like them?" said Marilla. Anne was standing in the gable room, looking solemnly at three new dresses spread out on the bed.
Oh, I can see you don't like the dresses!
What is the matter with them?
Aren't they neat and clean and new?" "Yes." "Then why don't you like them?" "They're--they're not--pretty," said Anne reluctantly. "Pretty!
I didn't trouble my head about getting pretty dresses for you.
I don't believe in pampering vanity, Anne, I'll tell you that right off.
Those dresses are good, sensible, serviceable dresses, without any frills or furbelows about them, and they're all you'll get this summer.
The brown gingham and the blue print will do you for school when you begin to go.
The sateen is for church and Sunday-school.
I'll expect you to keep them neat and clean and not to tear them.
I should think you'd be grateful to get most anything after those skimpy wincey things you've been wearing." "Oh, I _am_ grateful," protested Anne.
But I'd be ever so much gratefuller if--if you'd made just one of them with puffed sleeves. Puffed sleeves are so fashionable now.
It would give me such a thrill, Marilla, just to wear a dress with puffed sleeves." "Well, you'll have to do without your thrill.
I hadn't any material to waste on puffed sleeves.
I think they are ridiculous-looking things anyhow.
I prefer the plain, sensible ones." "But I'd rather look ridiculous when everybody else does than plain and sensible all by myself," persisted Anne mournfully. "Trust you for that!
Well, hang those dresses carefully up in your closet, and then sit down and learn the Sunday-school lesson.
I prayed for one, but I didn't much expect it on that account.
I didn't suppose God would have time to bother about a little orphan girl's dress.
I knew I'd just have to depend on Marilla for it.
Now, mind you behave yourself properly.
Stay to preaching afterwards and ask Mrs. Lynde to show you our pew.
Here's a cent for collection.
Don't stare at people and don't fidget.
Her hat was a little, flat, glossy, new sailor, the extreme plainness of which had likewise much disappointed Anne, who had permitted herself secret visions of ribbon and flowers.
In the porch she found a crowd of little girls, all more or less gaily attired in whites and blues and pinks, and all staring with curious eyes at this stranger in their midst, with her extraordinary head adornment.
Avonlea little girls had already heard queer stories about Anne.
Mrs. Lynde said she had an awful temper; Jerry Buote, the hired boy at Green Gables, said she talked all the time to herself or to the trees and flowers like a crazy girl.
They looked at her and whispered to each other behind their quarterlies.
Nobody made any friendly advances, then or later on when the opening exercises were over and Anne found herself in Miss Rogerson's class. Miss Rogerson was a middle-aged lady who had taught a Sunday-school class for twenty years.
Her method of teaching was to ask the printed questions from the quarterly and look sternly over its edge at the particular little girl she thought ought to answer the question.
Anne felt that life was really not worth living without puffed sleeves. "Well, how did you like Sunday-school?
Marilla wanted to know when Anne came home.
Her wreath having faded, Anne had discarded it in the lane, so Marilla was spared the knowledge of that for a time. "I didn't like it a bit.
And now about the Sunday-school.
I behaved well, just as you told me.
Mrs. Lynde was gone, but I went right on myself.
I went into the church, with a lot of other little girls, and I sat in the corner of a pew by the window while the opening exercises went on.
Mr. Bell made an awfully long prayer.
I would have been dreadfully tired before he got through if I hadn't been sitting by that window.
But it looked right out on the Lake of Shining Waters, so I just gazed at that and imagined all sorts of splendid things." "You shouldn't have done anything of the sort.
You should have listened to Mr. Bell." "But he wasn't talking to me," protested Anne.
He was talking to God and he didn't seem to be very much interested in it, either.
I think he thought God was too far off though.
There was a long row of white birches hanging over the lake and the sunshine fell down through them, 'way, 'way down, deep into the water.
Oh, Marilla, it was like a beautiful dream!
It gave me a thrill and I just said, 'Thank you for it, God,' two or three times." "Not out loud, I hope," said Marilla anxiously. "Oh, no, just under my breath.
Well, Mr. Bell did get through at last and they told me to go into the classroom with Miss Rogerson's class. There were nine other girls in it.
They all had puffed sleeves.
I tried to imagine mine were puffed, too, but I couldn't.
I hope you knew it." "Oh, yes; and I answered a lot of questions.
Miss Rogerson asked ever so many.
I don't think it was fair for her to do all the asking.
There were lots I wanted to ask her, but I didn't like to because I didn't think she was a kindred spirit.
Then all the other little girls recited a paraphrase.
She asked me if I knew any.
I told her I didn't, but I could recite, 'The Dog at His Master's Grave' if she liked.
That's in the Third Royal Reader.
It isn't a really truly religious piece of poetry, but it's so sad and melancholy that it might as well be.
She said it wouldn't do and she told me to learn the nineteenth paraphrase for next Sunday.
I read it over in church afterwards and it's splendid.
There are two lines in particular that just thrill me. "'Quick as the slaughtered squadrons fell In Midian's evil day.' "I don't know what 'squadrons' means nor 'Midian,' either, but it sounds _so_ tragical.
I can hardly wait until next Sunday to recite it. I'll practice it all the week.
After Sunday-school I asked Miss Rogerson--because Mrs. Lynde was too far away--to show me your pew. I sat just as still as I could and the text was Revelations, third chapter, second and third verses.
It was a very long text.
If I was a minister I'd pick the short, snappy ones.
The sermon was awfully long, too.
I suppose the minister had to match it to the text.
I didn't think he was a bit interesting.
The trouble with him seems to be that he hasn't enough imagination.
I didn't listen to him very much.
It almost seemed to her that those secret, unuttered, critical thoughts had suddenly taken visible and accusing shape and form in the person of this outspoken morsel of neglected humanity. CHAPTER XII.
A Solemn Vow and Promise IT was not until the next Friday that Marilla heard the story of the flower-wreathed hat.
She came home from Mrs. Lynde's and called Anne to account. "Anne, Mrs. Rachel says you went to church last Sunday with your hat rigged out ridiculous with roses and buttercups.
What on earth put you up to such a caper?
A pretty-looking object you must have been!" "Oh.
I know pink and yellow aren't becoming to me," began Anne. "Becoming fiddlesticks!
It was putting flowers on your hat at all, no matter what color they were, that was ridiculous.
You are the most aggravating child!" "I don't see why it's any more ridiculous to wear flowers on your hat than on your dress," protested Anne.
Lots of little girls there had bouquets pinned on their dresses.
What's the difference?" Marilla was not to be drawn from the safe concrete into dubious paths of the abstract. "Don't answer me back like that, Anne.
It was very silly of you to do such a thing.
Never let me catch you at such a trick again.
Mrs. Rachel says she thought she would sink through the floor when she saw you come in all rigged out like that.
She couldn't get near enough to tell you to take them off till it was too late.
She says people talked about it something dreadful.
Of course they would think I had no better sense than to let you go decked out like that." "Oh, I'm so sorry," said Anne, tears welling into her eyes.
I never thought you'd mind.
The roses and buttercups were so sweet and pretty I thought they'd look lovely on my hat.
Lots of the little girls had artificial flowers on their hats.
I'm afraid I'm going to be a dreadful trial to you.
Maybe you'd better send me back to the asylum.
That would be terrible; I don't think I could endure it; most likely I would go into consumption; I'm so thin as it is, you see.
But that would be better than being a trial to you." "Nonsense," said Marilla, vexed at herself for having made the child cry.
I don't want to send you back to the asylum, I'm sure.
All I want is that you should behave like other little girls and not make yourself ridiculous.
I've got some news for you.
Diana Barry came home this afternoon.
What if she shouldn't like me!
It would be the most tragical disappointment of my life." "Now, don't get into a fluster.
And I do wish you wouldn't use such long words.
It sounds so funny in a little girl.
I guess Diana 'll like you well enough.
It's her mother you've got to reckon with.
If she doesn't like you it won't matter how much Diana does.
If she has heard about your outburst to Mrs. Lynde and going to church with buttercups round your hat I don't know what she'll think of you.
You must be polite and well behaved, and don't make any of your startling speeches.
For pity's sake, if the child isn't actually trembling!" Anne _was_ trembling.
Mrs. Barry came to the kitchen door in answer to Marilla's knock.
She was a tall black-eyed, black-haired woman, with a very resolute mouth.
She had the reputation of being very strict with her children. "How do you do, Marilla?" she said cordially.
Then aside to Marilla in an audible whisper, "There wasn't anything startling in that, was there, Marilla?" Diana was sitting on the sofa, reading a book which she dropped when the callers entered.
She was a very pretty little girl, with her mother's black eyes and hair, and rosy cheeks, and the merry expression which was her inheritance from her father. "This is my little girl Diana," said Mrs. Barry.
Diana, you might take Anne out into the garden and show her your flowers.
It will be better for you than straining your eyes over that book.
She reads entirely too much--" this to Marilla as the little girls went out--"and I can't prevent her, for her father aids and abets her.
She's always poring over a book.
It was encircled by huge old willows and tall firs, beneath which flourished flowers that loved the shade.
Prim, right-angled paths neatly bordered with clamshells, intersected it like moist red ribbons and in the beds between old-fashioned flowers ran riot.
Diana always laughed before she spoke. "Why, I guess so," she said frankly.
I'm awfully glad you've come to live at Green Gables.
There are two kinds, you know." "I never heard of but one kind," said Diana doubtfully. "There really is another.
Oh, it isn't wicked at all.
It just means vowing and promising solemnly." "Well, I don't mind doing that," agreed Diana, relieved.
How do you do it?" "We must join hands--so," said Anne gravely.
It ought to be over running water.
We'll just imagine this path is running water.
I'll repeat the oath first.
I solemnly swear to be faithful to my bosom friend, Diana Barry, as long as the sun and moon shall endure.
Now you say it and put my name in." Diana repeated the "oath" with a laugh fore and aft.
Then she said: "You're a queer girl, Anne.
I heard before that you were queer.
But I believe I'm going to like you real well." When Marilla and Anne went home Diana went with them as far as the log bridge.
Oh Marilla, I'm the happiest girl on Prince Edward Island this very moment.
I assure you I'll say my prayers with a right good-will tonight.
Diana and I are going to build a playhouse in Mr. William Bell's birch grove tomorrow.
Can I have those broken pieces of china that are out in the woodshed?
Diana's birthday is in February and mine is in March.
Don't you think that is a very strange coincidence? Diana is going to lend me a book to read.
She says it's perfectly splendid and tremendously exciting.
She's going to show me a place back in the woods where rice lilies grow.
Don't you think Diana has got very soulful eyes?
I wish I had soulful eyes.
Diana is going to teach me to sing a song called 'Nelly in the Hazel Dell.
She's going to give me a picture to put up in my room; it's a perfectly beautiful picture, she says--a lovely lady in a pale blue silk dress.
A sewing-machine agent gave it to her.
I wish I had something to give Diana.
I'm an inch taller than Diana, but she is ever so much fatter; she says she'd like to be thin because it's so much more graceful, but I'm afraid she only said it to soothe my feelings.
We're going to the shore some day to gather shells.
We have agreed to call the spring down by the log bridge the Dryad's Bubble.
Isn't that a perfectly elegant name?
I read a story once about a spring called that.
A dryad is sort of a grown-up fairy, I think." "Well, all I hope is you won't talk Diana to death," said Marilla.
But remember this in all your planning, Anne.
You're not going to play all the time nor most of it.
You'll have your work to do and it'll have to be done first." Anne's cup of happiness was full, and Matthew caused it to overflow.
It'll ruin her teeth and stomach.
There, there, child, don't look so dismal.
You can eat those, since Matthew has gone and got them.
He'd better have brought you peppermints.
Don't sicken yourself eating all them at once now." "Oh, no, indeed, I won't," said Anne eagerly.
I'll just eat one tonight, Marilla.
And I can give Diana half of them, can't I?
The other half will taste twice as sweet to me if I give some to her.
It's delightful to think I have something to give her." "I will say it for the child," said Marilla when Anne had gone to her gable, "she isn't stingy.
I'm glad, for of all faults I detest stinginess in a child.
Dear me, it's only three weeks since she came, and it seems as if she'd been here always.
I can't imagine the place without her.
Now, don't be looking I told-you-so, Matthew.
That's bad enough in a woman, but it isn't to be endured in a man.
I'm perfectly willing to own up that I'm glad I consented to keep the child and that I'm getting fond of her, but don't you rub it in, Matthew Cuthbert." CHAPTER XIII.
The Delights of Anticipation IT'S time Anne was in to do her sewing," said Marilla, glancing at the clock and then out into the yellow August afternoon where everything drowsed in the heat.
And of course he's listening to her like a perfect ninny.
I never saw such an infatuated man. The more she talks and the odder the things she says, the more he's delighted evidently.
And Mrs. Superintendent Bell and Mrs. Rachel Lynde are going to make ice cream--think of it, Marilla--_ice cream!_ And, oh, Marilla, can I go to it?" "Just look at the clock, if you please, Anne.
What time did I tell you to come in?" "Two o'clock--but isn't it splendid about the picnic, Marilla?
Oh, I've never been to a picnic--I've dreamed of picnics, but I've never--" "Yes, I told you to come at two o'clock.
And it's a quarter to three. I'd like to know why you didn't obey me, Anne." "Why, I meant to, Marilla, as much as could be.
But you have no idea how fascinating Idlewild is.
And then, of course, I had to tell Matthew about the picnic.
Matthew is such a sympathetic listener.
Please can I go?" "You'll have to learn to resist the fascination of Idle-whatever-you-call-it.
When I tell you to come in at a certain time I mean that time and not half an hour later.
And you needn't stop to discourse with sympathetic listeners on your way, either.
As for the picnic, of course you can go.
You're a Sunday-school scholar, and it's not likely I'd refuse to let you go when all the other little girls are going." "But--but," faltered Anne, "Diana says that everybody must take a basket of things to eat.
I can't cook, as you know, Marilla, and--and--I don't mind going to a picnic without puffed sleeves so much, but I'd feel terribly humiliated if I had to go without a basket.
It's been preying on my mind ever since Diana told me." "Well, it needn't prey any longer.
I'll bake you a basket." "Oh, you dear good Marilla.
Oh, you are so kind to me.
Oh, I'm so much obliged to you." Getting through with her "ohs" Anne cast herself into Marilla's arms and rapturously kissed her sallow cheek.
It was the first time in her whole life that childish lips had voluntarily touched Marilla's face.
Again that sudden sensation of startling sweetness thrilled her.
She was secretly vastly pleased at Anne's impulsive caress, which was probably the reason why she said brusquely: "There, there, never mind your kissing nonsense.
I'd sooner see you doing strictly as you're told.
As for cooking, I mean to begin giving you lessons in that some of these days.
But you're so featherbrained, Anne, I've been waiting to see if you'd sober down a little and learn to be steady before I begin.
You've got to keep your wits about you in cooking and not stop in the middle of things to let your thoughts rove all over creation.
Now, get out your patchwork and have your square done before teatime." "I do _not_ like patchwork," said Anne dolefully, hunting out her workbasket and sitting down before a little heap of red and white diamonds with a sigh.
I think some kinds of sewing would be nice; but there's no scope for imagination in patchwork.
It's just one little seam after another and you never seem to be getting anywhere.
But of course I'd rather be Anne of Green Gables sewing patchwork than Anne of any other place with nothing to do but play.
I wish time went as quick sewing patches as it does when I'm playing with Diana, though.
Oh, we do have such elegant times, Marilla.
I have to furnish most of the imagination, but I'm well able to do that.
Diana is simply perfect in every other way.
You know that little piece of land across the brook that runs up between our farm and Mr. Barry's.
It belongs to Mr. William Bell, and right in the corner there is a little ring of white birch trees--the most romantic spot, Marilla.
Diana and I have our playhouse there.
Isn't that a poetical name?
I assure you it took me some time to think it out.
I stayed awake nearly a whole night before I invented it.
Then, just as I was dropping off to sleep, it came like an inspiration.
Diana was _enraptured_ when she heard it.
We have got our house fixed up elegantly.
You must come and see it, Marilla--won't you?
We have great big stones, all covered with moss, for seats, and boards from tree to tree for shelves.
And we have all our dishes on them.
Of course, they're all broken but it's the easiest thing in the world to imagine that they are whole.
There's a piece of a plate with a spray of red and yellow ivy on it that is especially beautiful.
We keep it in the parlor and we have the fairy glass there, too.
The fairy glass is as lovely as a dream.
Diana found it out in the woods behind their chicken house.
It's all full of rainbows--just little young rainbows that haven't grown big yet--and Diana's mother told her it was broken off a hanging lamp they once had.
But it's nice to imagine the fairies lost it one night when they had a ball, so we call it the fairy glass. Matthew is going to make us a table.
Oh, we have named that little round pool over in Mr. Barry's field Willowmere.
I got that name out of the book Diana lent me.
That was a thrilling book, Marilla.
The heroine had five lovers.
I'd be satisfied with one, wouldn't you?
She was very handsome and she went through great tribulations.
She could faint as easy as anything.
I'd love to be able to faint, wouldn't you, Marilla? It's so romantic.
But I'm really very healthy for all I'm so thin.
I believe I'm getting fatter, though.
Don't you think I am?
I look at my elbows every morning when I get up to see if any dimples are coming. Diana is having a new dress made with elbow sleeves.
She is going to wear it to the picnic.
Oh, I do hope it will be fine next Wednesday.
I don't feel that I could endure the disappointment if anything happened to prevent me from getting to the picnic.
I suppose I'd live through it, but I'm certain it would be a lifelong sorrow.
It wouldn't matter if I got to a hundred picnics in after years; they wouldn't make up for missing this one.
They're going to have boats on the Lake of Shining Waters--and ice cream, as I told you.
Now, just for curiosity's sake, see if you can hold your tongue for the same length of time." Anne held her tongue as desired.
But for the rest of the week she talked picnic and thought picnic and dreamed picnic.
I don't think I'd ever really believed until then that there was honestly going to be a picnic.
I couldn't help fearing I'd only imagined it.
But when a minister says a thing in the pulpit you just have to believe it." "You set your heart too much on things, Anne," said Marilla, with a sigh.
I'm afraid there'll be a great many disappointments in store for you through life." "Oh, Marilla, looking forward to things is half the pleasure of them," exclaimed Anne.
You mayn't get the things themselves; but nothing can prevent you from having the fun of looking forward to them.
Mrs. Lynde says, 'Blessed are they who expect nothing for they shall not be disappointed.
But I think it would be worse to expect nothing than to be disappointed." Marilla wore her amethyst brooch to church that day as usual.
Marilla always wore her amethyst brooch to church.
She would have thought it rather sacrilegious to leave it off--as bad as forgetting her Bible or her collection dime.
That amethyst brooch was Marilla's most treasured possession.
A seafaring uncle had given it to her mother who in turn had bequeathed it to Marilla.
It was an old-fashioned oval, containing a braid of her mother's hair, surrounded by a border of very fine amethysts.
I don't know how you can pay attention to the sermon or the prayers when you have it on.
I think amethysts are just sweet.
They are what I used to think diamonds were like.
Long ago, before I had ever seen a diamond, I read about them and I tried to imagine what they would be like.
I thought they would be lovely glimmering purple stones.
When I saw a real diamond in a lady's ring one day I was so disappointed I cried.
Of course, it was very lovely but it wasn't my idea of a diamond.
Will you let me hold the brooch for one minute, Marilla?
Do you think amethysts can be the souls of good violets?" CHAPTER XIV.
I thought I stuck it in my pincushion when I came home from church yesterday evening, but I can't find it anywhere." "I--I saw it this afternoon when you were away at the Aid Society," said Anne, a little slowly.
It's very wrong in a little girl to meddle.
You shouldn't have gone into my room in the first place and you shouldn't have touched a brooch that didn't belong to you in the second.
Where did you put it?" "Oh, I put it back on the bureau.
I hadn't it on a minute.
Truly, I didn't mean to meddle, Marilla.
I didn't think about its being wrong to go in and try on the brooch; but I see now that it was and I'll never do it again.
That's one good thing about me.
I never do the same naughty thing twice." "You didn't put it back," said Marilla.
That brooch isn't anywhere on the bureau.
You've taken it out or something, Anne." "I did put it back," said Anne quickly--pertly, Marilla thought.
I don't just remember whether I stuck it on the pincushion or laid it in the china tray.
But I'm perfectly certain I put it back." "I'll go and have another look," said Marilla, determining to be just. "If you put that brooch back it's there still.
If it isn't I'll know you didn't, that's all!" Marilla went to her room and made a thorough search, not only over the bureau but in every other place she thought the brooch might possibly be.
It was not to be found and she returned to the kitchen. "Anne, the brooch is gone.
By your own admission you were the last person to handle it.
Now, what have you done with it?
Tell me the truth at once.
Did you take it out and lose it?" "No, I didn't," said Anne solemnly, meeting Marilla's angry gaze squarely.
I never took the brooch out of your room and that is the truth, if I was to be led to the block for it--although I'm not very certain what a block is.
So there, Marilla." Anne's "so there" was only intended to emphasize her assertion, but Marilla took it as a display of defiance. "I believe you are telling me a falsehood, Anne," she said sharply.
There now, don't say anything more unless you are prepared to tell the whole truth.
Go to your room and stay there until you are ready to confess." "Will I take the peas with me?" said Anne meekly. "No, I'll finish shelling them myself.
Do as I bid you." When Anne had gone Marilla went about her evening tasks in a very disturbed state of mind.
She was worried about her valuable brooch.
What if Anne had lost it?
And how wicked of the child to deny having taken it, when anybody could see she must have!
With such an innocent face, too! "I don't know what I wouldn't sooner have had happen," thought Marilla, as she nervously shelled the peas.
Of course, I don't suppose she meant to steal it or anything like that.
She's just taken it to play with or help along that imagination of hers.
She must have taken it, that's clear, for there hasn't been a soul in that room since she was in it, by her own story, until I went up tonight.
And the brooch is gone, there's nothing surer.
I suppose she has lost it and is afraid to own up for fear she'll be punished.
It's a dreadful thing to think she tells falsehoods.
It's a far worse thing than her fit of temper.
It's a fearful responsibility to have a child in your house you can't trust. Slyness and untruthfulness--that's what she has displayed.
I declare I feel worse about that than about the brooch.
If she'd only have told the truth about it I wouldn't mind so much." Marilla went to her room at intervals all through the evening and searched for the brooch, without finding it.
A bedtime visit to the east gable produced no result.
Anne persisted in denying that she knew anything about the brooch but Marilla was only the more firmly convinced that she did. She told Matthew the story the next morning.
The brooch is gone and that child has taken it and lied about it.
That's the plain, ugly truth, Matthew Cuthbert, and we might as well look it in the face." "Well now, what are you going to do about it?
Matthew asked forlornly, feeling secretly thankful that Marilla and not he had to deal with the situation.
He felt no desire to put his oar in this time. "She'll stay in her room until she confesses," said Marilla grimly, remembering the success of this method in the former case.
Perhaps we'll be able to find the brooch if she'll only tell where she took it; but in any case she'll have to be severely punished, Matthew." "Well now, you'll have to punish her," said Matthew, reaching for his hat.
I've nothing to do with it, remember.
You warned me off yourself." Marilla felt deserted by everyone.
She could not even go to Mrs. Lynde for advice.
She went up to the east gable with a very serious face and left it with a face more serious still.
Anne steadfastly refused to confess.
She persisted in asserting that she had not taken the brooch. The child had evidently been crying and Marilla felt a pang of pity which she sternly repressed.
By night she was, as she expressed it, "beat out." "You'll stay in this room until you confess, Anne.
You can make up your mind to that," she said firmly. "But the picnic is tomorrow, Marilla," cried Anne.
You won't keep me from going to that, will you?
You'll just let me out for the afternoon, won't you?
Then I'll stay here as long as you like _afterwards_ cheerfully.
Birds sang around Green Gables; the Madonna lilies in the garden sent out whiffs of perfume that entered in on viewless winds at every door and window, and wandered through halls and rooms like spirits of benediction.
The birches in the hollow waved joyful hands as if watching for Anne's usual morning greeting from the east gable.
But Anne was not at her window.
When Marilla took her breakfast up to her she found the child sitting primly on her bed, pale and resolute, with tight-shut lips and gleaming eyes. "Marilla, I'm ready to confess." "Ah!
Marilla laid down her tray.
Once again her method had succeeded; but her success was very bitter to her.
Let me hear what you have to say then, Anne." "I took the amethyst brooch," said Anne, as if repeating a lesson she had learned.
I took it just as you said.
I didn't mean to take it when I went in. But it did look so beautiful, Marilla, when I pinned it on my breast that I was overcome by an irresistible temptation.
I imagined how perfectly thrilling it would be to take it to Idlewild and play I was the Lady Cordelia Fitzgerald.
It would be so much easier to imagine I was the Lady Cordelia if I had a real amethyst brooch on.
Diana and I make necklaces of roseberries but what are roseberries compared to amethysts?
So I took the brooch.
I thought I could put it back before you came home.
I went all the way around by the road to lengthen out the time.
When I was going over the bridge across the Lake of Shining Waters I took the brooch off to have another look at it.
Oh, how it did shine in the sunlight!
And then, when I was leaning over the bridge, it just slipped through my fingers--so--and went down--down--down, all purply-sparkling, and sank forevermore beneath the Lake of Shining Waters.
And that's the best I can do at confessing, Marilla." Marilla felt hot anger surge up into her heart again.
This child had taken and lost her treasured amethyst brooch and now sat there calmly reciting the details thereof without the least apparent compunction or repentance. "Anne, this is terrible," she said, trying to speak calmly.
You are the very wickedest girl I ever heard of." "Yes, I suppose I am," agreed Anne tranquilly.
And I know I'll have to be punished.
It'll be your duty to punish me, Marilla.
Won't you please get it over right off because I'd like to go to the picnic with nothing on my mind." "Picnic, indeed!
You'll go to no picnic today, Anne Shirley.
That shall be your punishment.
And it isn't half severe enough either for what you've done!" "Not go to the picnic!
Anne sprang to her feet and clutched Marilla's hand.
But you _promised_ me I might!
Oh, Marilla, I must go to the picnic.
That was why I confessed.
Punish me any way you like but that. Oh, Marilla, please, please, let me go to the picnic.
Think of the ice cream!
For anything you know I may never have a chance to taste ice cream again." Marilla disengaged Anne's clinging hands stonily. "You needn't plead, Anne.
You are not going to the picnic and that's final.
No, not a word." Anne realized that Marilla was not to be moved.
She clasped her hands together, gave a piercing shriek, and then flung herself face downward on the bed, crying and writhing in an utter abandonment of disappointment and despair. "For the land's sake!" gasped Marilla, hastening from the room.
I believe the child is crazy.
No child in her senses would behave as she does.
If she isn't she's utterly bad.
Oh dear, I'm afraid Rachel was right from the first.
But I've put my hand to the plow and I won't look back." That was a dismal morning.
Marilla worked fiercely and scrubbed the porch floor and the dairy shelves when she could find nothing else to do.
Neither the shelves nor the porch needed it--but Marilla did.
Then she went out and raked the yard. When dinner was ready she went to the stairs and called Anne.
A tear-stained face appeared, looking tragically over the banisters. "Come down to your dinner, Anne." "I don't want any dinner, Marilla," said Anne, sobbingly.
You'll feel remorse of conscience someday, I expect, for breaking it, Marilla, but I forgive you.
Remember when the time comes that I forgive you.
But please don't ask me to eat anything, especially boiled pork and greens.
Don't you think it's pretty rough not to let her go to the picnic when she's so set on it?" "Matthew Cuthbert, I'm amazed at you.
I think I've let her off entirely too easy.
And she doesn't appear to realize how wicked she's been at all--that's what worries me most.
If she'd really felt sorry it wouldn't be so bad.
And you don't seem to realize it, neither; you're making excuses for her all the time to yourself--I can see that." "Well now, she's such a little thing," feebly reiterated Matthew.
And there should be allowances made, Marilla.
You know she's never had any bringing up." "Well, she's having it now" retorted Marilla. The retort silenced Matthew if it did not convince him.
That dinner was a very dismal meal.
The shawl was in a box in her trunk.
As Marilla lifted it out, the sunlight, falling through the vines that clustered thickly about the window, struck upon something caught in the shawl--something that glittered and sparkled in facets of violet light. Marilla snatched at it with a gasp.
Whatever did that girl mean by saying she took it and lost it?
I declare I believe Green Gables is bewitched.
I remember now that when I took off my shawl Monday afternoon I laid it on the bureau for a minute.
I suppose the brooch got caught in it somehow.
Well!" Marilla betook herself to the east gable, brooch in hand.
Anne had cried herself out and was sitting dejectedly by the window. "Anne Shirley," said Marilla solemnly, "I've just found my brooch hanging to my black lace shawl.
I thought out a confession last night after I went to bed and made it as interesting as I could.
And I said it over and over so that I wouldn't forget it.
But you wouldn't let me go to the picnic after all, so all my trouble was wasted." Marilla had to laugh in spite of herself.
But her conscience pricked her. "Anne, you do beat all!
But I was wrong--I see that now.
I shouldn't have doubted your word when I'd never known you to tell a story. Of course, it wasn't right for you to confess to a thing you hadn't done--it was very wrong to do so.
But I drove you to it.
So if you'll forgive me, Anne, I'll forgive you and we'll start square again.
And now get yourself ready for the picnic." Anne flew up like a rocket. "Oh, Marilla, isn't it too late?" "No, it's only two o'clock.
They won't be more than well gathered yet and it'll be an hour before they have tea.
Wash your face and comb your hair and put on your gingham.
I'll fill a basket for you.
There's plenty of stuff baked in the house.
And I'll get Jerry to hitch up the sorrel and drive you down to the picnic ground." "Oh, Marilla," exclaimed Anne, flying to the wash-stand.
Scrumptious is a new word I learned today.
I heard Mary Alice Bell use it.
We had a splendid tea and then Mr. Harmon Andrews took us all for a row on the Lake of Shining Waters--six of us at a time.
And Jane Andrews nearly fell overboard.
She was leaning out to pick water lilies and if Mr. Andrews hadn't caught her by her sash just in the nick of time she'd fallen in and prob'ly been drowned. I wish it had been me.
It would have been such a romantic experience to have been nearly drowned.
It would be such a thrilling tale to tell.
And we had the ice cream.
Words fail me to describe that ice cream.
Marilla, I assure you it was sublime." That evening Marilla told the whole story to Matthew over her stocking basket. "I'm willing to own up that I made a mistake," she concluded candidly, "but I've learned a lesson.
I have to laugh when I think of Anne's 'confession,' although I suppose I shouldn't for it really was a falsehood.
But it doesn't seem as bad as the other would have been, somehow, and anyhow I'm responsible for it.
That child is hard to understand in some respects.
But I believe she'll turn out all right yet.
And there's one thing certain, no house will ever be dull that she's in." CHAPTER XV.
A Tempest in the School Teapot WHAT a splendid day!" said Anne, drawing a long breath.
Isn't it good just to be alive on a day like this?
I pity the people who aren't born yet for missing it.
They may have good days, of course, but they can never have this one.
And yet, when the tarts were divided among ten girls you just got enough to tantalize you. The way Anne and Diana went to school _was_ a pretty one.
Anne thought those walks to and from school with Diana couldn't be improved upon even by imagination.
It was the way by which the cows were taken to the back pasture and the wood hauled home in winter.
So we want to have one, too.
And it's a very pretty name, don't you think?
We can't imagine the lovers into it, you know.
I like that lane because you can think out loud there without people calling you crazy." Anne, starting out alone in the morning, went down Lover's Lane as far as the brook.
Here Diana met her, and the two little girls went on up the lane under the leafy arch of maples--"maples are such sociable trees," said Anne; "they're always rustling and whispering to you"--until they came to a rustic bridge.
Then they left the lane and walked through Mr. Barry's back field and past Willowmere.
Beyond Willowmere came Violet Vale--a little green dimple in the shadow of Mr. Andrew Bell's big woods.
Of course there are no violets there now," Anne told Marilla, "but Diana says there are millions of them in spring. Oh, Marilla, can't you just imagine you see them?
It actually takes away my breath.
I named it Violet Vale.
Diana says she never saw the beat of me for hitting on fancy names for places.
It's nice to be clever at something, isn't it?
But Diana named the Birch Path.
She wanted to, so I let her; but I'm sure I could have found something more poetical than plain Birch Path.
Anybody can think of a name like that.
But the Birch Path is one of the prettiest places in the world, Marilla." It was.
Now and then you might see a rabbit skipping across the road if you were quiet--which, with Anne and Diana, happened about once in a blue moon.
Anne was such an odd girl.
How would she get on with the other children?
And how on earth would she ever manage to hold her tongue during school hours? Things went better than Marilla feared, however.
Anne came home that evening in high spirits. "I think I'm going to like school here," she announced.
I don't think much of the master, though.
He's all the time curling his mustache and making eyes at Prissy Andrews.
Prissy is grown up, you know.
She's sixteen and she's studying for the entrance examination into Queen's Academy at Charlottetown next year.
Tillie Boulter says the master is _dead gone_ on her.
She's got a beautiful complexion and curly brown hair and she does it up so elegantly.
She sits in the long seat at the back and he sits there, too, most of the time--to explain her lessons, he says.
You don't go to school to criticize the master.
I guess he can teach _you_ something, and it's your business to learn.
And I want you to understand right off that you are not to come home telling tales about him.
That is something I won't encourage. I hope you were a good girl." "Indeed I was," said Anne comfortably.
It wasn't so hard as you might imagine, either.
Our seat is right by the window and we can look down to the Lake of Shining Waters.
There are a lot of nice girls in school and we had scrumptious fun playing at dinnertime.
It's so nice to have a lot of little girls to play with.
But of course I like Diana best and always will.
I'm dreadfully far behind the others.
They're all in the fifth book and I'm only in the fourth.
I feel that it's kind of a disgrace.
But there's not one of them has such an imagination as I have and I soon found that out.
We had reading and geography and Canadian history and dictation today.
Mr. Phillips said my spelling was disgraceful and he held up my slate so that everybody could see it, all marked over.
I felt so mortified, Marilla; he might have been politer to a stranger, I think.
Ruby Gillis gave me an apple and Sophia Sloane lent me a lovely pink card with 'May I see you home?' on it.
I'm to give it back to her tomorrow.
And Tillie Boulter let me wear her bead ring all the afternoon.
Can I have some of those pearl beads off the old pincushion in the garret to make myself a ring?
Marilla, have I really a pretty nose?
I know you'll tell me the truth." "Your nose is well enough," said Marilla shortly.
Secretly she thought Anne's nose was a remarkable pretty one; but she had no intention of telling her so. That was three weeks ago and all had gone smoothly so far.
And now, this crisp September morning, Anne and Diana were tripping blithely down the Birch Path, two of the happiest little girls in Avonlea. "I guess Gilbert Blythe will be in school today," said Diana.
He's been visiting his cousins over in New Brunswick all summer and he only came home Saturday night.
And he teases the girls something terrible.
He just torments our lives out." Diana's voice indicated that she rather liked having her life tormented out than not. "Gilbert Blythe?" said Anne.
Isn't his name that's written up on the porch wall with Julia Bell's and a big 'Take Notice' over them?" "Yes," said Diana, tossing her head, "but I'm sure he doesn't like Julia Bell so very much.
I've heard him say he studied the multiplication table by her freckles." "Oh, don't speak about freckles to me," implored Anne.
It isn't delicate when I've got so many.
But I do think that writing take-notices up on the wall about the boys and girls is the silliest ever.
I should just like to see anybody dare to write my name up with a boy's.
Not, of course," she hastened to add, "that anybody would." Anne sighed.
She didn't want her name written up.
It's only meant as a joke.
And don't you be too sure your name won't ever be written up. Charlie Sloane is _dead gone_ on you.
He told his mother--his _mother_, mind you--that you were the smartest girl in school.
That's better than being good-looking." "No, it isn't," said Anne, feminine to the core.
I'd rather be pretty than clever.
And I hate Charlie Sloane, I can't bear a boy with goggle eyes.
If anyone wrote my name up with his I'd _never_ get over it, Diana Barry.
But it _is_ nice to keep head of your class." "You'll have Gilbert in your class after this," said Diana, "and he's used to being head of his class, I can tell you.
He's only in the fourth book although he's nearly fourteen.
Four years ago his father was sick and had to go out to Alberta for his health and Gilbert went with him. They were there three years and Gil didn't go to school hardly any until they came back.
You won't find it so easy to keep head after this, Anne." "I'm glad," said Anne quickly.
I couldn't really feel proud of keeping head of little boys and girls of just nine or ten.
I got up yesterday spelling 'ebullition.
Josie Pye was head and, mind you, she peeped in her book.
Mr. Phillips didn't see her--he was looking at Prissy Andrews--but I did.
Gertie Pye actually went and put her milk bottle in my place in the brook yesterday.
I don't speak to her now." When Mr. Phillips was in the back of the room hearing Prissy Andrews's Latin, Diana whispered to Anne, "That's Gilbert Blythe sitting right across the aisle from you, Anne.
Just look at him and see if you don't think he's handsome." Anne looked accordingly.
She had a good chance to do so, for the said Gilbert Blythe was absorbed in stealthily pinning the long yellow braid of Ruby Gillis, who sat in front of him, to the back of her seat.
He was a tall boy, with curly brown hair, roguish hazel eyes, and a mouth twisted into a teasing smile.
Presently Ruby Gillis started up to take a sum to the master; she fell back into her seat with a little shriek, believing that her hair was pulled out by the roots.
Everybody looked at her and Mr. Phillips glared so sternly that Ruby began to cry.
Carrots!" Then Anne looked at him with a vengeance! She did more than look.
She sprang to her feet, her bright fancies fallen into cureless ruin.
She flashed one indignant glance at Gilbert from eyes whose angry sparkle was swiftly quenched in equally angry tears. "You mean, hateful boy!" she exclaimed passionately.
How dare you!" And then--thwack!
Anne had brought her slate down on Gilbert's head and cracked it--slate not head--clear across. Avonlea school always enjoyed a scene.
This was an especially enjoyable one.
Everybody said "Oh" in horrified delight.
Ruby Gillis, who was inclined to be hysterical, began to cry.
Tommy Sloane let his team of crickets escape him altogether while he stared open-mouthed at the tableau. Mr. Phillips stalked down the aisle and laid his hand heavily on Anne's shoulder. "Anne Shirley, what does this mean?" he said angrily.
It was asking too much of flesh and blood to expect her to tell before the whole school that she had been called "carrots.
Gilbert it was who spoke up stoutly. "It was my fault Mr. Phillips.
Anne, go and stand on the platform in front of the blackboard for the rest of the afternoon." Anne would have infinitely preferred a whipping to this punishment under which her sensitive spirit quivered as from a whiplash.
With a white, set face she obeyed.
Mr. Phillips took a chalk crayon and wrote on the blackboard above her head. "Ann Shirley has a very bad temper.
Anger was still too hot in her heart for that and it sustained her amid all her agony of humiliation.
With resentful eyes and passion-red cheeks she confronted alike Diana's sympathetic gaze and Charlie Sloane's indignant nods and Josie Pye's malicious smiles.
As for Gilbert Blythe, she would not even look at him. She would _never_ look at him again!
Honest I am. Don't be mad for keeps, now." Anne swept by disdainfully, without look or sign of hearing.
Oh how could you, Anne?" breathed Diana as they went down the road half reproachfully, half admiringly.
Diana felt that _she_ could never have resisted Gilbert's plea. "I shall never forgive Gilbert Blythe," said Anne firmly.
And Mr. Phillips spelled my name without an e, too.
He laughs at mine because it's so black.
He's called me a crow a dozen times; and I never heard him apologize for anything before, either." "There's a great deal of difference between being called a crow and being called carrots," said Anne with dignity.
Gilbert Blythe has hurt my feelings _excruciatingly_, Diana." It is possible the matter might have blown over without more excruciation if nothing else had happened.
But when things begin to happen they are apt to keep on. Avonlea scholars often spent noon hour picking gum in Mr. Bell's spruce grove over the hill and across his big pasture field.
From there they could keep an eye on Eben Wright's house, where the master boarded.
Anyone who came in late would be punished. All the boys and some of the girls went to Mr. Bell's spruce grove as usual, fully intending to stay only long enough to "pick a chew.
Diana, turning pale with pity, plucked the wreath from Anne's hair and squeezed her hand.
It flicked on the raw.
Obey me at once." For a moment Anne looked as if she meant to disobey.
Then, realizing that there was no help for it, she rose haughtily, stepped across the aisle, sat down beside Gilbert Blythe, and buried her face in her arms on the desk.
Anne felt that she could not bear it and it would be of no use to try.
Once, when nobody was looking, Gilbert took from his desk a little pink candy heart with a gold motto on it, "You are sweet," and slipped it under the curve of Anne's arm.
Diana wanted to know, as soon as they were out on the road.
She had not dared to ask the question before. "I am not coming back to school any more," said Anne.
Diana gasped and stared at Anne to see if she meant it. "Will Marilla let you stay home?" she asked. "She'll have to," said Anne.
I'll _never_ go to school to that man again." "Oh, Anne!
Diana looked as if she were ready to cry.
I do think you're mean.
Mr. Phillips will make me sit with that horrid Gertie Pye--I know he will because she is sitting alone.
Do come back, Anne." "I'd do almost anything in the world for you, Diana," said Anne sadly. "I'd let myself be torn limb from limb if it would do you any good.
But I can't do this, so please don't ask it.
You harrow up my very soul." "Just think of all the fun you will miss," mourned Diana.
We are going to build the loveliest new house down by the brook; and we'll be playing ball next week and you've never played ball, Anne.
And you know you are so fond of reading out loud, Anne." Nothing moved Anne in the least.
Her mind was made up.
She would not go to school to Mr. Phillips again; she told Marilla so when she got home. "Nonsense," said Marilla. "It isn't nonsense at all," said Anne, gazing at Marilla with solemn, reproachful eyes.
I've been insulted." "Insulted fiddlesticks!
You'll go to school tomorrow as usual." "Oh, no." Anne shook her head gently.
I'm not going back, Marilla.
I'll learn my lessons at home and I'll be as good as I can be and hold my tongue all the time if it's possible at all.
But I will not go back to school, I assure you." Marilla saw something remarkably like unyielding stubbornness looking out of Anne's small face.
She understood that she would have trouble in overcoming it; but she resolved wisely to say nothing more just then. "I'll run down and see Rachel about it this evening," she thought. "There's no use reasoning with Anne now.
She's too worked up and I've an idea she can be awful stubborn if she takes the notion.
Far as I can make out from her story, Mr. Phillips has been carrying matters with a rather high hand.
But it would never do to say so to her.
I'll just talk it over with Rachel.
She's sent ten children to school and she ought to know something about it.
Tillie Boulter was in on her way home from school and told me about it." "I don't know what to do with her," said Marilla.
She declares she won't go back to school.
I never saw a child so worked up.
I've been expecting trouble ever since she started to school.
I knew things were going too smooth to last.
What would you advise, Rachel?" "Well, since you've asked my advice, Marilla," said Mrs. Lynde amiably--Mrs. Lynde dearly loved to be asked for advice--"I'd just humor her a little at first, that's what I'd do.
It's my belief that Mr. Phillips was in the wrong.
Of course, it doesn't do to say so to the children, you know.
And of course he did right to punish her yesterday for giving way to temper.
But today it was different.
The others who were late should have been punished as well as Anne, that's what.
And I don't believe in making the girls sit with the boys for punishment.
Tillie Boulter was real indignant.
She took Anne's part right through and said all the scholars did too.
Anne seems real popular among them, somehow.
I never thought she'd take with them so well." "Then you really think I'd better let her stay home," said Marilla in amazement. "Yes.
That is I wouldn't say school to her again until she said it herself.
The less fuss made the better, in my opinion.
She won't miss much by not going to school, as far as _that_ goes.
Mr. Phillips isn't any good at all as a teacher.
The order he keeps is scandalous, that's what, and he neglects the young fry and puts all his time on those big scholars he's getting ready for Queen's.
He'd never have got the school for another year if his uncle hadn't been a trustee--_the_ trustee, for he just leads the other two around by the nose, that's what.
Even Diana's efforts as a peacemaker were of no avail.
One evening Marilla, coming in from the orchard with a basket of apples, found Anne sitting along by the east window in the twilight, crying bitterly. "Whatever's the matter now, Anne?" she asked. "It's about Diana," sobbed Anne luxuriously.
I love Diana so, Marilla. I cannot ever live without her.
But I know very well when we grow up that Diana will get married and go away and leave me.
And oh, what shall I do?
I hate her husband--I just hate him furiously.
When had he heard Marilla laugh like that before? "Well, Anne Shirley," said Marilla as soon as she could speak, "if you must borrow trouble, for pity's sake borrow it handier home.
I should think you had an imagination, sure enough." CHAPTER XVI.
It would be terrible if we just skipped from September to November, wouldn't it?
Look at these maple branches.
Don't they give you a thrill--several thrills?
I'm going to decorate my room with them." "Messy things," said Marilla, whose aesthetic sense was not noticeably developed.
You clutter up your room entirely too much with out-of-doors stuff, Anne.
Bedrooms were made to sleep in." "Oh, and dream in too, Marilla.
And you know one can dream so much better in a room where there are pretty things.
I'm going to put these boughs in the old blue jug and set them on my table." "Mind you don't drop leaves all over the stairs then.
I'm going on a meeting of the Aid Society at Carmody this afternoon, Anne, and I won't likely be home before dark.
He never scolded a bit. He put the tea down himself and said we could wait awhile as well as not.
And I told him a lovely fairy story while we were waiting, so he didn't find the time long at all.
It was a beautiful fairy story, Marilla.
But you keep your wits about you this time.
And--I don't really know if I'm doing right--it may make you more addlepated than ever--but you can ask Diana to come over and spend the afternoon with you and have tea here." "Oh, Marilla!
You _are_ able to imagine things after all or else you'd never have understood how I've longed for that very thing.
It will seem so nice and grown-uppish. No fear of my forgetting to put the tea to draw when I have company.
Oh, Marilla, can I use the rosebud spray tea set?" "No, indeed!
You know I never use that except for the minister or the Aids.
You'll put down the old brown tea set.
And asking Diana if she takes sugar!
I know she doesn't but of course I'll ask her just as if I didn't know.
And then pressing her to take another piece of fruit cake and another helping of preserves.
Oh, Marilla, it's a wonderful sensation just to think of it.
Can I take her into the spare room to lay off her hat when she comes?
And then into the parlor to sit?" "No. The sitting room will do for you and your company.
But there's a bottle half full of raspberry cordial that was left over from the church social the other night.
As a result just after Marilla had driven off to Carmody, Diana came over, dressed in _her_ second-best dress and looking exactly as it is proper to look when asked out to tea.
At other times she was wont to run into the kitchen without knocking; but now she knocked primly at the front door.
And when Anne, dressed in her second best, as primly opened it, both little girls shook hands as gravely as if they had never met before.
I suppose Mr. Cuthbert is hauling potatoes to the _lily sands_ this afternoon, is he?" said Diana, who had ridden down to Mr. Harmon Andrews's that morning in Matthew's cart. "Yes.
Our potato crop is very good this year.
I hope your father's crop is good too." "It is fairly good, thank you.
Have you picked many of your apples yet?" "Oh, ever so many," said Anne forgetting to be dignified and jumping up quickly.
Let's go out to the orchard and get some of the Red Sweetings, Diana.
Marilla says we can have all that are left on the tree.
Marilla is a very generous woman.
She said we could have fruit cake and cherry preserves for tea.
But it isn't good manners to tell your company what you are going to give them to eat, so I won't tell you what she said we could have to drink.
Only it begins with an R and a C and it's bright red color.
I love bright red drinks, don't you?
Diana had much to tell Anne of what went on in school.
You had to rub the warts with the pebble and then throw it away over your left shoulder at the time of the new moon and the warts would all go.
She jumped up hurriedly and said suppose they go in and have some raspberry cordial. Anne looked on the second shelf of the room pantry but there was no bottle of raspberry cordial there.
Search revealed it away back on the top shelf.
Anne put it on a tray and set it on the table with a tumbler. "Now, please help yourself, Diana," she said politely.
I don't believe I'll have any just now.
I don't feel as if I wanted any after all those apples." Diana poured herself out a tumblerful, looked at its bright-red hue admiringly, and then sipped it daintily. "That's awfully nice raspberry cordial, Anne," she said.
I didn't know raspberry cordial was so nice." "I'm real glad you like it.
Take as much as you want.
I'm going to run out and stir the fire up.
The tumblerfuls were generous ones and the raspberry cordial was certainly very nice. "The nicest I ever drank," said Diana.
It's ever so much nicer than Mrs. Lynde's, although she brags of hers so much.
It doesn't taste a bit like hers." "I should think Marilla's raspberry cordial would prob'ly be much nicer than Mrs. Lynde's," said Anne loyally.
Marilla is a famous cook.
She is trying to teach me to cook but I assure you, Diana, it is uphill work. There's so little scope for imagination in cookery.
You just have to go by rules.
The last time I made a cake I forgot to put the flour in. I was thinking the loveliest story about you and me, Diana.
Oh, it was such a pathetic tale, Diana. The tears just rained down over my cheeks while I mixed the cake.
But I forgot the flour and the cake was a dismal failure.
Flour is so essential to cakes, you know.
Marilla was very cross and I don't wonder. I'm a great trial to her.
She was terribly mortified about the pudding sauce last week.
We had a plum pudding for dinner on Tuesday and there was half the pudding and a pitcherful of sauce left over.
Marilla said there was enough for another dinner and told me to set it on the pantry shelf and cover it.
I thought of it next morning and ran to the pantry. Diana, fancy if you can my extreme horror at finding a mouse drowned in that pudding sauce!
I lifted the mouse out with a spoon and threw it out in the yard and then I washed the spoon in three waters.
Well, Mr. and Mrs. Chester Ross from Spencervale came here that morning.
You know they are very stylish people, especially Mrs. Chester Ross.
When Marilla called me in dinner was all ready and everybody was at the table.
I tried to be as polite and dignified as I could be, for I wanted Mrs. Chester Ross to think I was a ladylike little girl even if I wasn't pretty.
Everything went right until I saw Marilla coming with the plum pudding in one hand and the pitcher of pudding sauce _warmed up_, in the other.
Diana, that was a terrible moment.
I remembered everything and I just stood up in my place and shrieked out 'Marilla, you mustn't use that pudding sauce. There was a mouse drowned in it.
I forgot to tell you before.
Oh, Diana, I shall never forget that awful moment if I live to be a hundred. Mrs. Chester Ross just _looked_ at me and I thought I would sink through the floor with mortification.
She is such a perfect housekeeper and fancy what she must have thought of us.
Marilla turned red as fire but she never said a word--then.
She just carried that sauce and pudding out and brought in some strawberry preserves.
She even offered me some, but I couldn't swallow a mouthful.
It was like heaping coals of fire on my head.
After Mrs. Chester Ross went away, Marilla gave me a dreadful scolding.
Why, Diana, what is the matter?" Diana had stood up very unsteadily; then she sat down again, putting her hands to her head. "I'm--I'm awful sick," she said, a little thickly.
I--I--must go right home." "Oh, you mustn't dream of going home without your tea," cried Anne in distress.
I'll get it right off--I'll go and put the tea down this very minute." "I must go home," repeated Diana, stupidly but determinedly. "Let me get you a lunch anyhow," implored Anne.
Let me give you a bit of fruit cake and some of the cherry preserves.
Lie down on the sofa for a little while and you'll be better.
Where do you feel bad?" "I must go home," said Diana, and that was all she would say.
In vain Anne pleaded. "I never heard of company going home without tea," she mourned.
Oh, Diana, do you suppose that it's possible you're really taking the smallpox?
If you are I'll go and nurse you, you can depend on that.
But I do wish you'd stay till after tea.
Where do you feel bad?" "I'm awful dizzy," said Diana. And indeed, she walked very dizzily.
Anne, with tears of disappointment in her eyes, got Diana's hat and went with her as far as the Barry yard fence.
Monday afternoon Marilla sent her down to Mrs. Lynde's on an errand.
In a very short space of time Anne came flying back up the lane with tears rolling down her cheeks.
Into the kitchen she dashed and flung herself face downward on the sofa in an agony. "Whatever has gone wrong now, Anne?" queried Marilla in doubt and dismay.
I do hope you haven't gone and been saucy to Mrs. Lynde again." No answer from Anne save more tears and stormier sobs! "Anne Shirley, when I ask you a question I want to be answered.
Sit right up this very minute and tell me what you are crying about." Anne sat up, tragedy personified. "Mrs. Lynde was up to see Mrs. Barry today and Mrs. Barry was in an awful state," she wailed.
She says that I set Diana _drunk_ Saturday and sent her home in a disgraceful condition.
And she says I must be a thoroughly bad, wicked little girl and she's never, never going to let Diana play with me again.
Oh, Marilla, I'm just overcome with woe." Marilla stared in blank amazement. "Set Diana drunk!" she said when she found her voice.
Anne are you or Mrs. Barry crazy?
What on earth did you give her?" "Not a thing but raspberry cordial," sobbed Anne.
I never thought raspberry cordial would set people drunk, Marilla--not even if they drank three big tumblerfuls as Diana did.
Oh, it sounds so--so--like Mrs. Thomas's husband!
But I didn't mean to set her drunk." "Drunk fiddlesticks!" said Marilla, marching to the sitting-room pantry.
Her face was twitching in spite of herself. "Anne, you certainly have a genius for getting into trouble.
You went and gave Diana currant wine instead of raspberry cordial.
Didn't you know the difference yourself?" "I never tasted it," said Anne.
I thought it was the cordial.
I meant to be so--so--hospitable.
Diana got awfully sick and had to go home. Mrs. Barry told Mrs. Lynde she was simply dead drunk.
She just laughed silly-like when her mother asked her what was the matter and went to sleep and slept for hours.
Her mother smelled her breath and knew she was drunk.
She had a fearful headache all day yesterday.
Mrs. Barry is so indignant.
She will never believe but what I did it on purpose." "I should think she would better punish Diana for being so greedy as to drink three glassfuls of anything," said Marilla shortly.
Why, three of those big glasses would have made her sick even if it had only been cordial.
Well, this story will be a nice handle for those folks who are so down on me for making currant wine, although I haven't made any for three years ever since I found out that the minister didn't approve.
I just kept that bottle for sickness.
There, there, child, don't cry.
I can't see as you were to blame although I'm sorry it happened so." "I must cry," said Anne.
The stars in their courses fight against me, Marilla.
Diana and I are parted forever.
Oh, Marilla, I little dreamed of this when first we swore our vows of friendship." "Don't be foolish, Anne.
Mrs. Barry will think better of it when she finds you're not to blame.
I suppose she thinks you've done it for a silly joke or something of that sort.
You'd best go up this evening and tell her how it was." "My courage fails me at the thought of facing Diana's injured mother," sighed Anne.
I wish you'd go, Marilla.
You're so much more dignified than I am. Likely she'd listen to you quicker than to me." "Well, I will," said Marilla, reflecting that it would probably be the wiser course.
Don't cry any more, Anne.
It will be all right." Marilla had changed her mind about it being all right by the time she got back from Orchard Slope.
Anne was watching for her coming and flew to the porch door to meet her. "Oh, Marilla, I know by your face that it's been no use," she said sorrowfully.
Mrs. Barry won't forgive me?" "Mrs. Barry indeed!" snapped Marilla.
Of all the unreasonable women I ever saw she's the worst.
I told her it was all a mistake and you weren't to blame, but she just simply didn't believe me.
And she rubbed it well in about my currant wine and how I'd always said it couldn't have the least effect on anybody.
Mrs. Barry, coming to the door in answer to a timid knock, found a white-lipped eager-eyed suppliant on the doorstep. Her face hardened.
Mrs. Barry was a woman of strong prejudices and dislikes, and her anger was of the cold, sullen sort which is always hardest to overcome.
I did not mean to--to--intoxicate Diana.
Just imagine if you were a poor little orphan girl that kind people had adopted and you had just one bosom friend in all the world.
Do you think you would intoxicate her on purpose?
I thought it was only raspberry cordial.
I was firmly convinced it was raspberry cordial.
Oh, please don't say that you won't let Diana play with me any more.
If you do you will cover my life with a dark cloud of woe." This speech which would have softened good Mrs. Lynde's heart in a twinkling, had no effect on Mrs. Barry except to irritate her still more.
She was suspicious of Anne's big words and dramatic gestures and imagined that the child was making fun of her.
I went up and saw Mrs. Barry myself and she treated me very insultingly.
Marilla, I do _not_ think she is a well-bred woman.
Then she bent down and kissed the flushed cheek on the pillow. CHAPTER XVII.
A New Interest in Life THE next afternoon Anne, bending over her patchwork at the kitchen window, happened to glance out and beheld Diana down by the Dryad's Bubble beckoning mysteriously.
In a trice Anne was out of the house and flying down to the hollow, astonishment and hope struggling in her expressive eyes.
But the hope faded when she saw Diana's dejected countenance. "Your mother hasn't relented?" she gasped. Diana shook her head mournfully. "No; and oh, Anne, she says I'm never to play with you again.
I've cried and cried and I told her it wasn't your fault, but it wasn't any use.
I had ever such a time coaxing her to let me come down and say good-bye to you.
She said I was only to stay ten minutes and she's timing me by the clock." "Ten minutes isn't very long to say an eternal farewell in," said Anne tearfully.
Oh, Diana, will you promise faithfully never to forget me, the friend of your youth, no matter what dearer friends may caress thee?" "Indeed I will," sobbed Diana, "and I'll never have another bosom friend--I don't want to have.
I couldn't love anybody as I love you." "Oh, Diana," cried Anne, clasping her hands, "do you _love_ me?" "Why, of course I do.
Didn't you know that?" "No." Anne drew a long breath.
I thought you _liked_ me of course but I never hoped you _loved_ me.
Why, Diana, I didn't think anybody could love me.
Nobody ever has loved me since I can remember.
It's a ray of light which will forever shine on the darkness of a path severed from thee, Diana.
Oh, just say it once again." "I love you devotedly, Anne," said Diana stanchly, "and I always will, you may be sure of that." "And I will always love thee, Diana," said Anne, solemnly extending her hand.
In the years to come thy memory will shine like a star over my lonely life, as that last story we read together says.
I've got my patchwork scissors in my apron pocket fortunately," said Anne.
She solemnly clipped one of Diana's curls.
Fare thee well, my beloved friend.
Henceforth we must be as strangers though living side by side.
But my heart will ever be faithful to thee." Anne stood and watched Diana out of sight, mournfully waving her hand to the latter whenever she turned to look back.
Then she returned to the house, not a little consoled for the time being by this romantic parting. "It is all over," she informed Marilla.
I shall never have another friend.
I'm really worse off than ever before, for I haven't Katie Maurice and Violetta now.
And even if I had it wouldn't be the same. Somehow, little dream girls are not satisfying after a real friend. Diana and I had such an affecting farewell down by the spring.
It will be sacred in my memory forever.
I used the most pathetic language I could think of and said 'thou' and 'thee.
Thou' and 'thee' seem so much more romantic than 'you.
Diana gave me a lock of her hair and I'm going to sew it up in a little bag and wear it around my neck all my life.
Please see that it is buried with me, for I don't believe I'll live very long.
That is all there is left in life for me, now that my friend has been ruthlessly torn from me.
In school I can look at her and muse over days departed." "You'd better muse over your lessons and sums," said Marilla, concealing her delight at this development of the situation.
If you're going back to school I hope we'll hear no more of breaking slates over people's heads and such carryings on.
Behave yourself and do just what your teacher tells you." "I'll try to be a model pupil," agreed Anne dolefully.
There won't be much fun in it, I expect.
Mr. Phillips said Minnie Andrews was a model pupil and there isn't a spark of imagination or life in her.
She is just dull and poky and never seems to have a good time.
But I feel so depressed that perhaps it will come easy to me now.
I'm going round by the road.
I couldn't bear to go by the Birch Path all alone.
I should weep bitter tears if I did." Anne was welcomed back to school with open arms.
Her imagination had been sorely missed in games, her voice in the singing and her dramatic ability in the perusal aloud of books at dinner hour.
Ruby Gillis smuggled three blue plums over to her during testament reading; Ella May MacPherson gave her an enormous yellow pansy cut from the covers of a floral catalogue--a species of desk decoration much prized in Avonlea school.
Sophia Sloane offered to teach her a perfectly elegant new pattern of knit lace, so nice for trimming aprons.
When Anne went to her seat after dinner hour--she had been told by Mr. Phillips to sit with the model Minnie Andrews--she found on her desk a big luscious "strawberry apple.
Anne caught it up all ready to take a bite when she remembered that the only place in Avonlea where strawberry apples grew was in the old Blythe orchard on the other side of the Lake of Shining Waters.
Anne dropped the apple as if it were a red-hot coal and ostentatiously wiped her fingers on her handkerchief.
The apple lay untouched on her desk until the next morning, when little Timothy Andrews, who swept the school and kindled the fire, annexed it as one of his perquisites.
Charlie Sloane's slate pencil, gorgeously bedizened with striped red and yellow paper, costing two cents where ordinary pencils cost only one, which he sent up to her after dinner hour, met with a more favorable reception.
It isn't my fault and don't be cross at me, because I love you as much as ever.
I miss you awfully to tell all my secrets to and I don't like Gertie Pye one bit.
I made you one of the new bookmarkers out of red tissue paper.
They are awfully fashionable now and only three girls in school know how to make them.
I shall keep your lovely present forever.
Minnie Andrews is a very nice little girl--although she has no imagination--but after having been Diana's busum friend I cannot be Minnie's.
Perhaps Anne caught something of the "model" spirit from Minnie Andrews; at least she got on very well with Mr. Phillips thenceforth.
She was as intense in her hatreds as in her loves.
She would not stoop to admit that she meant to rival Gilbert in schoolwork, because that would have been to acknowledge his existence which Anne persistently ignored; but the rivalry was there and honors fluctuated between them.
Now Gilbert was head of the spelling class; now Anne, with a toss of her long red braids, spelled him down.
One morning Gilbert had all his sums done correctly and had his name written on the blackboard on the roll of honor; the next morning Anne, having wrestled wildly with decimals the entire evening before, would be first.
One awful day they were ties and their names were written up together.
It was almost as bad as a take-notice and Anne's mortification was as evident as Gilbert's satisfaction.
When the written examinations at the end of each month were held the suspense was terrible.
The first month Gilbert came out three marks ahead.
The second Anne beat him by five.
But her triumph was marred by the fact that Gilbert congratulated her heartily before the whole school.
By the end of the term Anne and Gilbert were both promoted into the fifth class and allowed to begin studying the elements of "the branches"--by which Latin, geometry, French, and algebra were meant.
In geometry Anne met her Waterloo. "It's perfectly awful stuff, Marilla," she groaned.
I'm sure I'll never be able to make head or tail of it.
There is no scope for imagination in it at all.
Mr. Phillips says I'm the worst dunce he ever saw at it. And Gil--I mean some of the others are so smart at it.
It is extremely mortifying, Marilla. "Even Diana gets along better than I do.
But I don't mind being beaten by Diana.
Even although we meet as strangers now I still love her with an _inextinguishable_ love.
It makes me very sad at times to think about her.
But really, Marilla, one can't stay sad very long in such an interesting world, can one?" CHAPTER XVIII.
Anne to the Rescue ALL things great are wound up with all things little.
Most of the Avonlea people were on Premier's side of politics; hence on the night of the meeting nearly all the men and a goodly proportion of the women had gone to town thirty miles away.
Mrs. Rachel Lynde had gone too.
Mrs. Rachel Lynde was a red-hot politician and couldn't have believed that the political rally could be carried through without her, although she was on the opposite side of politics.
A bright fire was glowing in the old-fashioned Waterloo stove and blue-white frost crystals were shining on the windowpanes.
Jane had assured her that it was warranted to produce any number of thrills, or words to that effect, and Anne's fingers tingled to reach out for it.
But that would mean Gilbert Blythe's triumph on the morrow.
You can't sympathize properly if you've never studied it.
It is casting a cloud over my whole life.
I'm such a dunce at it, Matthew." "Well now, I dunno," said Matthew soothingly.
I guess you're all right at anything.
Mr. Phillips told me last week in Blair's store at Carmody that you was the smartest scholar in school and was making rapid progress.
Rapid progress' was his very words.
I learn the proposition off by heart and then he draws it on the blackboard and puts different letters from what are in the book and I get all mixed up.
I don't think a teacher should take such a mean advantage, do you?
We're studying agriculture now and I've found out at last what makes the roads red.
It's a great comfort. I wonder how Marilla and Mrs. Lynde are enjoying themselves.
Mrs. Lynde says Canada is going to the dogs the way things are being run at Ottawa and that it's an awful warning to the electors.
She says if women were allowed to vote we would soon see a blessed change.
What way do you vote, Matthew?" "Conservative," said Matthew promptly.
To vote Conservative was part of Matthew's religion. "Then I'm Conservative too," said Anne decidedly.
I'm glad because Gil--because some of the boys in school are Grits.
I guess Mr. Phillips is a Grit too because Prissy Andrews's father is one, and Ruby Gillis says that when a man is courting he always has to agree with the girl's mother in religion and her father in politics.
Ruby Gillis says when she grows up she's going to have ever so many beaus on the string and have them all crazy about her; but I think that would be too exciting.
I'd rather have just one in his right mind.
But Ruby Gillis knows a great deal about such matters because she has so many big sisters, and Mrs. Lynde says the Gillis girls have gone off like hot cakes.
There are a great many things in this world that I can't understand very well, Matthew." "Well now, I dunno as I comprehend them all myself," acknowledged Matthew. "Well, I suppose I must finish up my lessons.
I won't allow myself to open that new book Jane lent me until I'm through.
But it's a terrible temptation, Matthew.
Even when I turn my back on it I can see it there just as plain.
Jane said she cried herself sick over it.
I love a book that makes me cry.
But I think I'll carry that book into the sitting room and lock it in the jam closet and give you the key.
And you must _not_ give it to me, Matthew, until my lessons are done, not even if I implore you on my bended knees.
It's all very well to say resist temptation, but it's ever so much easier to resist it if you can't get the key.
And then shall I run down the cellar and get some russets, Matthew?
Has your mother relented at last?" "Oh, Anne, do come quick," implored Diana nervously.
Minnie May is awful sick--she's got croup.
Young Mary Joe says--and Father and Mother are away to town and there's nobody to go for the doctor.
I know it as well as if he'd said so.
Matthew and I are such kindred spirits I can read his thoughts without words at all." "I don't believe he'll find the doctor at Carmody," sobbed Diana.
I know that Dr. Blair went to town and I guess Dr. Spencer would go too. Young Mary Joe never saw anybody with croup and Mrs. Lynde is away.
Oh, Anne!" "Don't cry, Di," said Anne cheerily.
I know exactly what to do for croup.
You forget that Mrs. Hammond had twins three times.
When you look after three pairs of twins you naturally get a lot of experience.
They all had croup regularly.
Just wait till I get the ipecac bottle--you mayn't have any at your house.
Come on now." The two little girls hastened out hand in hand and hurried through Lover's Lane and across the crusted field beyond, for the snow was too deep to go by the shorter wood way.
Anne thought it was truly delightful to go skimming through all this mystery and loveliness with your bosom friend who had been so long estranged. Minnie May, aged three, was really very sick.
She lay on the kitchen sofa feverish and restless, while her hoarse breathing could be heard all over the house.
First we must have lots of hot water.
I declare, Diana, there isn't more than a cupful in the kettle!
There, I've filled it up, and, Mary Joe, you may put some wood in the stove.
I don't want to hurt your feelings but it seems to me you might have thought of this before if you'd any imagination.
Now, I'll undress Minnie May and put her to bed and you try to find some soft flannel cloths, Diana.
I'm going to give her a dose of ipecac first of all." Minnie May did not take kindly to the ipecac but Anne had not brought up three pairs of twins for nothing.
But the pressing need for assistance was past.
Minnie May was much better and was sleeping soundly. "I was awfully near giving up in despair," explained Anne.
She got worse and worse until she was sicker than ever the Hammond twins were, even the last pair.
But in about three minutes she coughed up the phlegm and began to get better right away.
You must just imagine my relief, doctor, because I can't express it in words.
You know there are some things that cannot be expressed in words." "Yes, I know," nodded the doctor.
I tell you she saved that baby's life, for it would have been too late by the time I got there.
She seems to have a skill and presence of mind perfectly wonderful in a child of her age.
The world looks like something God had just imagined for His own pleasure, doesn't it?
Those trees look as if I could blow them away with a breath--pouf!
I'm so glad I live in a world where there are white frosts, aren't you?
And I'm so glad Mrs. Hammond had three pairs of twins after all.
If she hadn't I mightn't have known what to do for Minnie May.
I'm real sorry I was ever cross with Mrs. Hammond for having twins.
But, oh, Matthew, I'm so sleepy.
I can't go to school.
I just know I couldn't keep my eyes open and I'd be so stupid.
You just go right to bed and have a good sleep.
What did he look like Marilla?" "Well, he never got to be Premier on account of his looks," said Marilla.
Such a nose as that man had!
I was proud of being a Conservative.
Rachel Lynde, of course, being a Liberal, had no use for him.
Your dinner is in the oven, Anne, and you can get yourself some blue plum preserve out of the pantry.
I guess you're hungry. Matthew has been telling me about last night.
I must say it was fortunate you knew what to do.
I wouldn't have had any idea myself, for I never saw a case of croup.
There now, never mind talking till you've had your dinner.
She wanted to see you, but I wouldn't wake you up.
She says you saved Minnie May's life, and she is very sorry she acted as she did in that affair of the currant wine.
She says she knows now you didn't mean to set Diana drunk, and she hopes you'll forgive her and be good friends with Diana again.
You're to go over this evening if you like for Diana can't stir outside the door on account of a bad cold she caught last night.
I'll wash them when I come back, but I cannot tie myself down to anything so unromantic as dishwashing at this thrilling moment." "Yes, yes, run along," said Marilla indulgently.
Come back this instant and put something on you.
I might as well call to the wind.
She's gone without a cap or wrap.
Look at her tearing through the orchard with her hair streaming.
It'll be a mercy if she doesn't catch her death of cold." Anne came dancing home in the purple winter twilight across the snowy places.
Afar in the southwest was the great shimmering, pearl-like sparkle of an evening star in a sky that was pale golden and ethereal rose over gleaming white spaces and dark glens of spruce.
Just at present I have a soul above red hair.
Mrs. Barry kissed me and cried and said she was so sorry and she could never repay me.
I felt fearfully embarrassed, Marilla, but I just said as politely as I could, 'I have no hard feelings for you, Mrs. Barry.
I assure you once for all that I did not mean to intoxicate Diana and henceforth I shall cover the past with the mantle of oblivion.
That was a pretty dignified way of speaking wasn't it, Marilla?" "I felt that I was heaping coals of fire on Mrs. Barry's head.
And Diana and I had a lovely afternoon.
Diana showed me a new fancy crochet stitch her aunt over at Carmody taught her.
Not a soul in Avonlea knows it but us, and we pledged a solemn vow never to reveal it to anyone else.
Diana gave me a beautiful card with a wreath of roses on it and a verse of poetry:" "If you love me as I love you Nothing but death can part us two." "And that is true, Marilla.
We're going to ask Mr. Phillips to let us sit together in school again, and Gertie Pye can go with Minnie Andrews. We had an elegant tea.
Mrs. Barry had the very best china set out, Marilla, just as if I was real company.
I can't tell you what a thrill it gave me.
Nobody ever used their very best china on my account before. And we had fruit cake and pound cake and doughnuts and two kinds of preserves, Marilla.
And Mrs. Barry asked me if I took tea and said 'Pa, why don't you pass the biscuits to Anne?
I know from sorrowful experience how that hurts one's feelings.
After tea Diana and I made taffy.
But the making of it was splendid fun.
Then when I came home Mrs. Barry asked me to come over as often as I could and Diana stood at the window and threw kisses to me all the way down to Lover's Lane.
I assure you, Marilla, that I feel like praying tonight and I'm going to think out a special brand-new prayer in honor of the occasion." CHAPTER XIX.
You and Diana walked home from school together and then stood down there in the snow for half an hour more, your tongues going the whole blessed time, clickety-clack.
So I don't think you're very badly off to see her again." "But she wants to see me," pleaded Anne.
She has something very important to tell me." "How do you know she has?" "Because she just signaled to me from her window.
We have arranged a way to signal with our candles and cardboard.
We set the candle on the window sill and make flashes by passing the cardboard back and forth.
So many flashes mean a certain thing.
It was my idea, Marilla." "I'll warrant you it was," said Marilla emphatically.
And the next thing you'll be setting fire to the curtains with your signaling nonsense." "Oh, we're very careful, Marilla.
Two flashes mean, 'Are you there?
But at least she had made good use of them. "Oh, Marilla, what do you think?
You know tomorrow is Diana's birthday. Well, her mother told her she could ask me to go home with her from school and stay all night with her.
And her cousins are coming over from Newbridge in a big pung sleigh to go to the Debating Club concert at the hall tomorrow night.
And they are going to take Diana and me to the concert--if you'll let me go, that is.
You will, won't you, Marilla?
Oh, I feel so excited." "You can calm down then, because you're not going.
But you're not going to begin gadding about to concerts and staying out all hours of the night.
I'm surprised at Mrs. Barry's letting Diana go." "But it's such a very special occasion," mourned Anne, on the verge of tears.
Diana has only one birthday in a year.
It isn't as if birthdays were common things, Marilla.
Prissy Andrews is going to recite 'Curfew Must Not Ring Tonight.
That is such a good moral piece, Marilla, I'm sure it would do me lots of good to hear it.
And the choir are going to sing four lovely pathetic songs that are pretty near as good as hymns. And oh, Marilla, the minister is going to take part; yes, indeed, he is; he's going to give an address.
That will be just about the same thing as a sermon.
Please, mayn't I go, Marilla?" "You heard what I said, Anne, didn't you?
Take off your boots now and go to bed.
It's past eight." "There's just one more thing, Marilla," said Anne, with the air of producing the last shot in her locker.
Mrs. Barry told Diana that we might sleep in the spare-room bed.
Think of the honor of your little Anne being put in the spare-room bed." "It's an honor you'll have to get along without.
Who's bringing this child up, Matthew, you or me?" "Well now, you," admitted Matthew. "Don't interfere then." "Well now, I ain't interfering.
It ain't interfering to have your own opinion.
And my opinion is that you ought to let Anne go." "You'd think I ought to let Anne go to the moon if she took the notion, I've no doubt," was Marilla's amiable rejoinder.
I might have let her spend the night with Diana, if that was all.
But I don't approve of this concert plan.
She'd go there and catch cold like as not, and have her head filled up with nonsense and excitement.
It would unsettle her for a week.
I understand that child's disposition and what's good for it better than you, Matthew." "I think you ought to let Anne go," repeated Matthew firmly.
Argument was not his strong point, but holding fast to his opinion certainly was. Marilla gave a gasp of helplessness and took refuge in silence.
This is Matthew's doings and I wash my hands of it.
If you catch pneumonia sleeping in a strange bed or coming out of that hot hall in the middle of the night, don't blame me, blame Matthew.
Anne Shirley, you're dripping greasy water all over the floor.
I never saw such a careless child." "Oh, I know I'm a great trial to you, Marilla," said Anne repentantly. "I make so many mistakes.
But then just think of all the mistakes I don't make, although I might.
I'll get some sand and scrub up the spots before I go to school.
Oh, Marilla, my heart was just set on going to that concert.
I never was to a concert in my life, and when the other girls talk about them in school I feel so out of it.
You didn't know just how I felt about it, but you see Matthew did.
Matthew understands me, and it's so nice to be understood, Marilla." Anne was too excited to do herself justice as to lessons that morning in school.
Gilbert Blythe spelled her down in class and left her clear out of sight in mental arithmetic.
Anne's consequent humiliation was less than it might have been, however, in view of the concert and the spare-room bed.
The Avonlea Debating Club, which met fortnightly all winter, had had several smaller free entertainments; but this was to be a big affair, admission ten cents, in aid of the library.
They had a "perfectly elegant tea;" and then came the delicious occupation of dressing in Diana's little room upstairs.
Diana did Anne's front hair in the new pompadour style and Anne tied Diana's bows with the especial knack she possessed; and they experimented with at least half a dozen different ways of arranging their back hair.
But she remembered in time that she had an imagination and could use it. Then Diana's cousins, the Murrays from Newbridge, came; they all crowded into the big pung sleigh, among straw and furry robes.
Anne reveled in the drive to the hall, slipping along over the satin-smooth roads with the snow crisping under the runners.
There was a magnificent sunset, and the snowy hills and deep-blue water of the St. Lawrence Gulf seemed to rim in the splendor like a huge bowl of pearl and sapphire brimmed with wine and fire.
Tinkles of sleigh bells and distant laughter, that seemed like the mirth of wood elves, came from every quarter. "Oh, Diana," breathed Anne, squeezing Diana's mittened hand under the fur robe, "isn't it all like a beautiful dream?
Do I really look the same as usual?
Everybody seemed asleep and the house was dark and silent.
Anne and Diana tiptoed into the parlor, a long narrow room out of which the spare room opened. It was pleasantly warm and dimly lighted by the embers of a fire in the grate. "Let's undress here," said Diana.
It's so nice and warm." "Hasn't it been a delightful time?" sighed Anne rapturously.
It must be splendid to get up and recite there.
Do you suppose we will ever be asked to do it, Diana?" "Yes, of course, someday.
They're always wanting the big scholars to recite.
Gilbert Blythe does often and he's only two years older than us. Oh, Anne, how could you pretend not to listen to him?
When he came to the line, 'There's Another, _not_ a sister,' he looked right down at you." "Diana," said Anne with dignity, "you are my bosom friend, but I cannot allow even you to speak to me of that person.
Are you ready for bed? Let's run a race and see who'll get to the bed first." The suggestion appealed to Diana.
The two little white-clad figures flew down the long room, through the spare-room door, and bounded on the bed at the same moment.
And then--something--moved beneath them, there was a gasp and a cry--and somebody said in muffled accents: "Merciful goodness!" Anne and Diana were never able to tell just how they got off that bed and out of the room.
They only knew that after one frantic rush they found themselves tiptoeing shiveringly upstairs. "Oh, who was it--_what_ was it?" whispered Anne, her teeth chattering with cold and fright. "It was Aunt Josephine," said Diana, gasping with laughter.
Oh, Anne, it was Aunt Josephine, however she came to be there.
Oh, and I know she will be furious.
It's dreadful--it's really dreadful--but did you ever know anything so funny, Anne?" "Who is your Aunt Josephine?" "She's father's aunt and she lives in Charlottetown.
She's awfully old--seventy anyhow--and I don't believe she was _ever_ a little girl.
We were expecting her out for a visit, but not so soon.
She's awfully prim and proper and she'll scold dreadfully about this, I know.
Well, we'll have to sleep with Minnie May--and you can't think how she kicks." Miss Josephine Barry did not appear at the early breakfast the next morning.
Mrs. Barry smiled kindly at the two little girls. "Did you have a good time last night?
I tried to stay awake until you came home, for I wanted to tell you Aunt Josephine had come and that you would have to go upstairs after all, but I was so tired I fell asleep.
I hope you didn't disturb your aunt, Diana." Diana preserved a discreet silence, but she and Anne exchanged furtive smiles of guilty amusement across the table.
Mrs. Barry was here a few minutes ago on her way to Carmody.
She's feeling real worried over it.
Old Miss Barry was in a terrible temper when she got up this morning--and Josephine Barry's temper is no joke, I can tell you that.
She wouldn't speak to Diana at all." "It wasn't Diana's fault," said Anne contritely.
I suggested racing to see who would get into bed first." "I knew it!" said Mrs. Lynde, with the exultation of a correct guesser. "I knew that idea came out of your head.
Well, it's made a nice lot of trouble, that's what.
Old Miss Barry came out to stay for a month, but she declares she won't stay another day and is going right back to town tomorrow, Sunday and all as it is.
She'd have gone today if they could have taken her.
She had promised to pay for a quarter's music lessons for Diana, but now she is determined to do nothing at all for such a tomboy.
Oh, I guess they had a lively time of it there this morning.
The Barrys must feel cut up.
Old Miss Barry is rich and they'd like to keep on the good side of her.
Of course, Mrs. Barry didn't say just that to me, but I'm a pretty good judge of human nature, that's what." "I'm such an unlucky girl," mourned Anne.
I'm always getting into scrapes myself and getting my best friends--people I'd shed my heart's blood for--into them too.
Can you tell me why it is so, Mrs. Lynde?" "It's because you're too heedless and impulsive, child, that's what.
You never stop to think--whatever comes into your head to say or do you say or do it without a moment's reflection." "Oh, but that's the best of it," protested Anne.
Something just flashes into your mind, so exciting, and you must out with it.
If you stop to think it over you spoil it all.
Haven't you never felt that yourself, Mrs. Lynde?" No, Mrs. Lynde had not.
She shook her head sagely. "You must learn to think a little, Anne, that's what.
The proverb you need to go by is 'Look before you leap'--especially into spare-room beds." Mrs. Lynde laughed comfortably over her mild joke, but Anne remained pensive.
She saw nothing to laugh at in the situation, which to her eyes appeared very serious.
When she left Mrs. Lynde's she took her way across the crusted fields to Orchard Slope.
Diana met her at the kitchen door. "Your Aunt Josephine was very cross about it, wasn't she?" whispered Anne. "Yes," answered Diana, stifling a giggle with an apprehensive glance over her shoulder at the closed sitting-room door.
She was fairly dancing with rage, Anne.
She said I was the worst-behaved girl she ever saw and that my parents ought to be ashamed of the way they had brought me up.
She says she won't stay and I'm sure I don't care.
I'd rather walk up to a cannon's mouth.
But I've got to do it, Diana.
It was my fault and I've got to confess.
I've had practice in confessing, fortunately." "Well, she's in the room," said Diana.
You can go in if you want to.
Diana would never have thought of such a thing, I am sure. Diana is a very ladylike girl, Miss Barry.
So you must see how unjust it is to blame her." "Oh, I must, hey?
I rather think Diana did her share of the jumping at least.
Such carryings on in a respectable house!" "But we were only in fun," persisted Anne.
I think you ought to forgive us, Miss Barry, now that we've apologized.
And anyhow, please forgive Diana and let her have her music lessons.
Diana's heart is set on her music lessons, Miss Barry, and I know too well what it is to set your heart on a thing and not get it.
If you must be cross with anyone, be cross with me.
But she still said severely: "I don't think it is any excuse for you that you were only in fun. Little girls never indulged in that kind of fun when I was young.
You don't know what it is to be awakened out of a sound sleep, after a long and arduous journey, by two great girls coming bounce down on you." "I don't _know_, but I can _imagine_," said Anne eagerly.
I'm sure it must have been very disturbing.
But then, there is our side of it too.
Have you any imagination, Miss Barry?
If you have, just put yourself in our place.
We didn't know there was anybody in that bed and you nearly scared us to death.
It was simply awful the way we felt.
And then we couldn't sleep in the spare room after being promised.
I suppose you are used to sleeping in spare rooms.
But just imagine what you would feel like if you were a little orphan girl who had never had such an honor." All the snap had gone by this time.
Miss Barry actually laughed--a sound which caused Diana, waiting in speechless anxiety in the kitchen outside, to give a great gasp of relief. "I'm afraid my imagination is a little rusty--it's so long since I used it," she said.
I dare say your claim to sympathy is just as strong as mine.
It all depends on the way we look at it.
Sit down here and tell me about yourself." "I am very sorry I can't," said Anne firmly.
I would like to, because you seem like an interesting lady, and you might even be a kindred spirit although you don't look very much like it.
But it is my duty to go home to Miss Marilla Cuthbert.
Miss Marilla Cuthbert is a very kind lady who has taken me to bring up properly.
She is doing her best, but it is very discouraging work.
You must not blame her because I jumped on the bed.
She was a more agreeable guest than usual, for Anne kept her in good humor.
You don't find it right out at first, as in Matthew's case, but after a while you come to see it.
Kindred spirits are not so scarce as I used to think.
It's splendid to find out there are so many of them in the world." CHAPTER XX.
The maples in Lover's Lane were red budded and little curly ferns pushed up around the Dryad's Bubble.
Away up in the barrens, behind Mr. Silas Sloane's place, the Mayflowers blossomed out, pink and white stars of sweetness under their brown leaves.
Diana says perhaps they have something better, but there couldn't be anything better than Mayflowers, could there, Marilla?
And Diana says if they don't know what they are like they don't miss them.
But I think that is the saddest thing of all.
I think it would be _tragic_, Marilla, not to know what Mayflowers are like and _not_ to miss them.
Do you know what I think Mayflowers are, Marilla?
I think they must be the souls of the flowers that died last summer and this is their heaven.
But we had a splendid time today, Marilla.
We had our lunch down in a big mossy hollow by an old well--such a _romantic_ spot. Charlie Sloane dared Arty Gillis to jump over it, and Arty did because he wouldn't take a dare.
It is very _fashionable_ to dare.
Mr. Phillips gave all the Mayflowers he found to Prissy Andrews and I heard him to say 'sweets to the sweet.
He got that out of a book, I know; but it shows he has some imagination.
I was offered some Mayflowers too, but I rejected them with scorn.
I can't tell you the person's name because I have vowed never to let it cross my lips.
Oh, it was so thrilling, Marilla.
All Mr. Silas Sloane's folks rushed out to see us and everybody we met on the road stopped and stared after us.
We made a real sensation." "Not much wonder!
Such silly doings!" was Marilla's response. After the Mayflowers came the violets, and Violet Vale was empurpled with them.
But when I'm up in school it's all different and I care as much as ever. There's such a lot of different Annes in me.
I sometimes think that is why I'm such a troublesome person.
The walls were as white, the pincushion as hard, the chairs as stiffly and yellowly upright as ever.
Yet the whole character of the room was altered.
It was full of a new vital, pulsing personality that seemed to pervade it and to be quite independent of schoolgirl books and dresses and ribbons, and even of the cracked blue jug full of apple blossoms on the table.
It was as if all the dreams, sleeping and waking, of its vivid occupant had taken a visible although unmaterial form and had tapestried the bare room with splendid filmy tissues of rainbow and moonshine.
Presently Marilla came briskly in with some of Anne's freshly ironed school aprons.
She hung them over a chair and sat down with a short sigh.
She had had one of her headaches that afternoon, and although the pain had gone she felt weak and "tuckered out," as she expressed it.
Anne looked at her with eyes limpid with sympathy. "I do truly wish I could have had the headache in your place, Marilla.
I would have endured it joyfully for your sake." "I guess you did your part in attending to the work and letting me rest," said Marilla.
You seem to have got on fairly well and made fewer mistakes than usual.
Of course it wasn't exactly necessary to starch Matthew's handkerchiefs!
And most people when they put a pie in the oven to warm up for dinner take it out and eat it when it gets hot instead of leaving it to be burned to a crisp.
But that doesn't seem to be your way evidently." Headaches always left Marilla somewhat sarcastic. "Oh, I'm so sorry," said Anne penitently.
I never thought about that pie from the moment I put it in the oven till now, although I felt _instinctively_ that there was something missing on the dinner table.
I was firmly resolved, when you left me in charge this morning, not to imagine anything, but keep my thoughts on facts.
So that is how I came to forget the pie.
I didn't know I starched the handkerchiefs.
All the time I was ironing I was trying to think of a name for a new island Diana and I have discovered up the brook.
It's the most ravishing spot, Marilla.
There are two maple trees on it and the brook flows right around it.
At last it struck me that it would be splendid to call it Victoria Island because we found it on the Queen's birthday.
Both Diana and I are very loyal.
But I'm sorry about that pie and the handkerchiefs.
I wanted to be extra good today because it's an anniversary.
Do you remember what happened this day last year, Marilla?" "No, I can't think of anything special." "Oh, Marilla, it was the day I came to Green Gables.
I shall never forget it.
It was the turning point in my life.
Of course it wouldn't seem so important to you.
I've been here for a year and I've been so happy.
If you've finished your lessons, Anne, I want you to run over and ask Mrs. Barry if she'll lend me Diana's apron pattern." "Oh--it's--it's too dark," cried Anne. "Too dark?
And goodness knows you've gone over often enough after dark." "I'll go over early in the morning," said Anne eagerly.
I'll get up at sunrise and go over, Marilla." "What has got into your head now, Anne Shirley?
I want that pattern to cut out your new apron this evening.
Go at once and be smart too." "I'll have to go around by the road, then," said Anne, taking up her hat reluctantly. "Go by the road and waste half an hour!
I'd like to catch you!" "I can't go through the Haunted Wood, Marilla," cried Anne desperately. Marilla stared. "The Haunted Wood!
What under the canopy is the Haunted Wood?" "The spruce wood over the brook," said Anne in a whisper. "Fiddlesticks!
There is no such thing as a haunted wood anywhere.
Who has been telling you such stuff?" "Nobody," confessed Anne.
Diana and I just imagined the wood was haunted.
All the places around here are so--so--_commonplace_.
We just got this up for our own amusement.
We began it in April.
A haunted wood is so very romantic, Marilla.
We chose the spruce grove because it's so gloomy.
Oh, we have imagined the most harrowing things.
There's a white lady walks along the brook just about this time of the night and wrings her hands and utters wailing cries.
She appears when there is to be a death in the family.
And the ghost of a little murdered child haunts the corner up by Idlewild; it creeps up behind you and lays its cold fingers on your hand--so.
Oh, Marilla, it gives me a shudder to think of it.
And there's a headless man stalks up and down the path and skeletons glower at you between the boughs.
Oh, Marilla, I wouldn't go through the Haunted Wood after dark now for anything.
I'd be sure that white things would reach out from behind the trees and grab me." "Did ever anyone hear the like!" ejaculated Marilla, who had listened in dumb amazement.
Anne Shirley, do you mean to tell me you believe all that wicked nonsense of your own imagination?" "Not believe _exactly_," faltered Anne.
At least, I don't believe it in daylight.
But after dark, Marilla, it's different.
That is when ghosts walk." "There are no such things as ghosts, Anne." "Oh, but there are, Marilla," cried Anne eagerly.
I know people who have seen them.
And they are respectable people.
Charlie Sloane says that his grandmother saw his grandfather driving home the cows one night after he'd been buried for a year.
You know Charlie Sloane's grandmother wouldn't tell a story for anything.
She's a very religious woman.
And Mrs. Thomas's father was pursued home one night by a lamb of fire with its head cut off hanging by a strip of skin.
He said he knew it was the spirit of his brother and that it was a warning he would die within nine days.
He didn't, but he died two years after, so you see it was really true.
And Ruby Gillis says--" "Anne Shirley," interrupted Marilla firmly, "I never want to hear you talking in this fashion again.
I've had my doubts about that imagination of yours right along, and if this is going to be the outcome of it, I won't countenance any such doings.
You'll go right over to Barry's, and you'll go through that spruce grove, just for a lesson and a warning to you.
And never let me hear a word out of your head about haunted woods again." Anne might plead and cry as she liked--and did, for her terror was very real.
Her imagination had run away with her and she held the spruce grove in mortal dread after nightfall.
She marched the shrinking ghost-seer down to the spring and ordered her to proceed straightway over the bridge and into the dusky retreats of wailing ladies and headless specters beyond. "Oh, Marilla, how can you be so cruel?" sobbed Anne.
What would you feel like if a white thing did snatch me up and carry me off?" "I'll risk it," said Marilla unfeelingly.
You know I always mean what I say.
I'll cure you of imagining ghosts into places.
That is, she stumbled over the bridge and went shuddering up the horrible dim path beyond.
Anne never forgot that walk.
Bitterly did she repent the license she had given to her imagination.
The goblins of her fancy lurked in every shadow about her, reaching out their cold, fleshless hands to grasp the terrified small girl who had called them into being.
A white strip of birch bark blowing up from the hollow over the brown floor of the grove made her heart stand still.
The long-drawn wail of two old boughs rubbing against each other brought out the perspiration in beads on her forehead.
The swoop of bats in the darkness over her was as the wings of unearthly creatures.
The dreadful return journey had to be faced.
Anne went back over it with shut eyes, preferring to take the risk of dashing her brains out among the boughs to that of seeing a white thing.
When she finally stumbled over the log bridge she drew one long shivering breath of relief. "Well, so nothing caught you?" said Marilla unsympathetically. "Oh, Mar--Marilla," chattered Anne, "I'll b-b-be contt-tented with c-c-commonplace places after this." CHAPTER XXI.
Wasn't it fortunate, Marilla, that I took an extra handkerchief to school today?
I just cried because all the others did.
It was Ruby Gillis started it.
Ruby Gillis has always declared she hated Mr. Phillips, but just as soon as he got up to make his farewell speech she burst into tears.
Then all the girls began to cry, one after the other. I tried to hold out, Marilla.
Jane Andrews has been talking for a month about how glad she'd be when Mr. Phillips went away and she declared she'd never shed a tear.
Well, she was worse than any of us and had to borrow a handkerchief from her brother--of course the boys didn't cry--because she hadn't brought one of her own, not expecting to need it.
Oh, Marilla, it was heartrending.
Mr. Phillips made such a beautiful farewell speech beginning, 'The time has come for us to part.
And he had tears in his eyes too, Marilla.
She hadn't anything on her conscience.
The girls cried all the way home from school.
Carrie Sloane kept saying every few minutes, 'The time has come for us to part,' and that would start us off again whenever we were in any danger of cheering up.
I do feel dreadfully sad, Marilla.
But one can't feel quite in the depths of despair with two months' vacation before them, can they, Marilla?
And besides, we met the new minister and his wife coming from the station.
For all I was feeling so bad about Mr. Phillips going away I couldn't help taking a little interest in a new minister, could I?
His wife is very pretty.
Not exactly regally lovely, of course--it wouldn't do, I suppose, for a minister to have a regally lovely wife, because it might set a bad example.
Mrs. Lynde says the minister's wife over at Newbridge sets a very bad example because she dresses so fashionably.
Besides, she's only been a minister's wife for a little while, so one should make allowances, shouldn't they?
Many a thing Mrs. Lynde had lent, sometimes never expecting to see it again, came home that night in charge of the borrowers thereof.
He was a widower when he came, and a widower he remained, despite the fact that gossip regularly married him to this, that, or the other one, every year of his sojourn.
In the preceding February he had resigned his charge and departed amid the regrets of his people, most of whom had the affection born of long intercourse for their good old minister in spite of his shortcomings as an orator.
Since then the Avonlea church had enjoyed a variety of religious dissipation in listening to the many and various candidates and "supplies" who came Sunday after Sunday to preach on trial.
Mrs. Lynde says his delivery was so poor, but I think his worst fault was just like Mr. Bentley's--he had no imagination.
And Mr. Terry had too much; he let it run away with him just as I did mine in the matter of the Haunted Wood.
Besides, Mrs. Lynde says his theology wasn't sound.
Mrs. Lynde is a very farseeing woman, isn't she, Matthew?
I'm very glad they've called Mr. Allan.
And she knows his wife's people and they are most respectable and the women are all good housekeepers.
Avonlea opened its heart to them from the start. Old and young liked the frank, cheerful young man with his high ideals, and the bright, gentle little lady who assumed the mistress-ship of the manse.
With Mrs. Allan Anne fell promptly and wholeheartedly in love. She had discovered another kindred spirit. "Mrs. Allan is perfectly lovely," she announced one Sunday afternoon. "She's taken our class and she's a splendid teacher.
She said right away she didn't think it was fair for the teacher to ask all the questions, and you know, Marilla, that is exactly what I've always thought.
I didn't think that was a very proper question to ask because it hadn't any connection with the lesson--the lesson was about Daniel in the lions' den--but Mrs. Allan just smiled and said she thought there would be.
Mrs. Allan has a lovely smile; she has such _exquisite_ dimples in her cheeks.
I wish I had dimples in my cheeks, Marilla.
I'm not half so skinny as I was when I came here, but I have no dimples yet.
If I had perhaps I could influence people for good.
Mrs. Allan said we ought always to try to influence other people for good.
She talked so nice about everything.
I never knew before that religion was such a cheerful thing.
I always thought it was kind of melancholy, but Mrs. Allan's isn't, and I'd like to be a Christian if I could be one like her.
I wouldn't want to be one like Mr. Superintendent Bell." "It's very naughty of you to speak so about Mr. Bell," said Marilla severely.
Mr. Bell is a real good man." "Oh, of course he's good," agreed Anne, "but he doesn't seem to get any comfort out of it.
If I could be good I'd dance and sing all day because I was glad of it.
I suppose Mrs. Allan is too old to dance and sing and of course it wouldn't be dignified in a minister's wife.
They've been most everywhere but here.
Next Wednesday would be a good time to have them.
But don't say a word to Matthew about it, for if he knew they were coming he'd find some excuse to be away that day.
But oh, Marilla, will you let me make a cake for the occasion?
Anne was wild with excitement and delight.
I assure you, Diana, that Marilla and I have had a busy two days of it.
It's such a responsibility having a minister's family to tea.
I never went through such an experience before.
You should just see our pantry.
It's a sight to behold.
We're going to have jellied chicken and cold tongue.
Mrs. Lynde says ministers are dyspeptic, but I don't think Mr. Allan has been a minister long enough for it to have had a bad effect on him.
I just grow cold when I think of my layer cake.
Oh, Diana, what if it shouldn't be good!
I dreamed last night that I was chased all around by a fearful goblin with a big layer cake for a head." "It'll be good, all right," assured Diana, who was a very comfortable sort of friend.
However, I suppose I shall just have to trust to Providence and be careful to put in the flour.
Oh, look, Diana, what a lovely rainbow!
Do you suppose the dryad will come out after we go away and take it for a scarf?" "You know there is no such thing as a dryad," said Diana.
Diana's mother had found out about the Haunted Wood and had been decidedly angry over it.
As a result Diana had abstained from any further imitative flights of imagination and did not think it prudent to cultivate a spirit of belief even in harmless dryads. "But it's so easy to imagine there is," said Anne.
Every night before I go to bed, I look out of my window and wonder if the dryad is really sitting here, combing her locks with the spring for a mirror.
Sometimes I look for her footprints in the dew in the morning.
Oh, Diana, don't give up your faith in the dryad!" Wednesday morning came.
Anne got up at sunrise because she was too excited to sleep.
She had caught a severe cold in the head by reason of her dabbling in the spring on the preceding evening; but nothing short of absolute pneumonia could have quenched her interest in culinary matters that morning.
After breakfast she proceeded to make her cake. When she finally shut the oven door upon it she drew a long breath. "I'm sure I haven't forgotten anything this time, Marilla.
But do you think it will rise?
Just suppose perhaps the baking powder isn't good?
I used it out of the new can.
Marilla, what if that cake doesn't rise?" "We'll have plenty without it" was Marilla's unimpassioned way of looking at the subject. The cake did rise, however, and came out of the oven as light and feathery as golden foam.
Anne, flushed with delight, clapped it together with layers of ruby jelly and, in imagination, saw Mrs. Allan eating it and possibly asking for another piece! "You'll be using the best tea set, of course, Marilla," she said.
Can I fix the table with ferns and wild roses?" "I think that's all nonsense," sniffed Marilla.
In my opinion it's the eatables that matter and not flummery decorations." "Mrs. Barry had _her_ table decorated," said Anne, who was not entirely guiltless of the wisdom of the serpent, "and the minister paid her an elegant compliment.
He said it was a feast for the eye as well as the palate." "Well, do as you like," said Marilla, who was quite determined not to be surpassed by Mrs. Barry or anybody else.
Only mind you leave enough room for the dishes and the food." Anne laid herself out to decorate in a manner and after a fashion that should leave Mrs. Barry's nowhere.
But Marilla, seeing the disappointment on Anne's face, said smilingly: "Oh, you must take a piece of this, Mrs. Allan.
Marilla saw the expression and hastened to taste the cake. "Anne Shirley!" she exclaimed, "what on earth did you put into that cake?" "Nothing but what the recipe said, Marilla," cried Anne with a look of anguish.
Oh, isn't it all right?" "All right!
Mr. Allan, don't try to eat it.
What flavoring did you use?" "Vanilla," said Anne, her face scarlet with mortification after tasting the cake.
Oh, Marilla, it must have been the baking powder.
I had my suspicions of that bak--" "Baking powder fiddlesticks!
I broke the liniment bottle last week and poured what was left into an old empty vanilla bottle.
It will get out--things always do get out in Avonlea.
Diana will ask me how my cake turned out and I shall have to tell her the truth.
I shall always be pointed at as the girl who flavored a cake with anodyne liniment.
Gil--the boys in school will never get over laughing at it.
Oh, Marilla, if you have a spark of Christian pity don't tell me that I must go down and wash the dishes after this.
I'll wash them when the minister and his wife are gone, but I cannot ever look Mrs. Allan in the face again.
Perhaps she'll think I tried to poison her.
Mrs. Lynde says she knows an orphan girl who tried to poison her benefactor.
But the liniment isn't poisonous.
It's meant to be taken internally--although not in cakes.
Why, it's all just a funny mistake that anybody might make." "Oh, no, it takes me to make such a mistake," said Anne forlornly.
And I wanted to have that cake so nice for you, Mrs. Allan." "Yes, I know, dear.
And I assure you I appreciate your kindness and thoughtfulness just as much as if it had turned out all right.
Now, you mustn't cry any more, but come down with me and show me your flower garden.
Miss Cuthbert tells me you have a little plot all your own.
I want to see it, for I'm very much interested in flowers." Anne permitted herself to be led down and comforted, reflecting that it was really providential that Mrs. Allan was a kindred spirit.
Nothing more was said about the liniment cake, and when the guests went away Anne found that she had enjoyed the evening more than could have been expected, considering that terrible incident.
Nevertheless, she sighed deeply. "Marilla, isn't it nice to think that tomorrow is a new day with no mistakes in it yet?" "I'll warrant you'll make plenty in it," said Marilla.
I never saw your beat for making mistakes, Anne." "Yes, and well I know it," admitted Anne mournfully.
But have you ever noticed one encouraging thing about me, Marilla?
I never make the same mistake twice." "I don't know as that's much benefit when you're always making new ones." "Oh, don't you see, Marilla?
There must be a limit to the mistakes one person can make, and when I get to the end of them, then I'll be through with them.
That's a very comforting thought." "Well, you'd better go and give that cake to the pigs," said Marilla. "It isn't fit for any human to eat, not even Jerry Boute." CHAPTER XXII.
Anne Is Invited Out to Tea AND what are your eyes popping out of your head about.
Now?" asked Marilla, when Anne had just come in from a run to the post office.
Have you discovered another kindred spirit?
Excitement hung around Anne like a garment, shone in her eyes, kindled in every feature.
She had come dancing up the lane, like a wind-blown sprite, through the mellow sunshine and lazy shadows of the August evening. "No, Marilla, but oh, what do you think?
I am invited to tea at the manse tomorrow afternoon!
Mrs. Allan left the letter for me at the post office.
Just look at it, Marilla.
Miss Anne Shirley, Green Gables.' That is the first time I was ever called 'Miss.' Such a thrill as it gave me!
I shall cherish it forever among my choicest treasures." "Mrs. Allan told me she meant to have all the members of her Sunday-school class to tea in turn," said Marilla, regarding the wonderful event very coolly.
You needn't get in such a fever over it. Do learn to take things calmly, child." For Anne to take things calmly would have been to change her nature.
All "spirit and fire and dew," as she was, the pleasures and pains of life came to her with trebled intensity.
Marilla felt this and was vaguely troubled over it, realizing that the ups and downs of existence would probably bear hardly on this impulsive soul and not sufficiently understanding that the equally great capacity for delight might more than compensate.
Therefore Marilla conceived it to be her duty to drill Anne into a tranquil uniformity of disposition as impossible and alien to her as to a dancing sunbeam in one of the brook shallows.
She did not make much headway, as she sorrowfully admitted to herself.
The downfall of some dear hope or plan plunged Anne into "deeps of affliction.
The fulfillment thereof exalted her to dizzy realms of delight.
Marilla had almost begun to despair of ever fashioning this waif of the world into her model little girl of demure manners and prim deportment.
Anne thought that the morning would never come. But all things have an end, even nights before the day on which you are invited to take tea at the manse.
Wouldn't it be nice if it could last?
I believe I could be a model child if I were just invited out to tea every day.
But oh, Marilla, it's a solemn occasion too.
I feel so anxious. What if I shouldn't behave properly?
I'm so afraid I'll do something silly or forget to do something I should do.
Would it be good manners to take a second helping of anything if you wanted to _very_ much?" "The trouble with you, Anne, is that you're thinking too much about yourself.
You should just think of Mrs. Allan and what would be nicest and most agreeable to her," said Marilla, hitting for once in her life on a very sound and pithy piece of advice.
Anne instantly realized this. "You are right, Marilla.
One clear star hung over the orchard and the fireflies were flitting over in Lover's Lane, in and out among the ferns and rustling boughs.
Anne watched them as she talked and somehow felt that wind and stars and fireflies were all tangled up together into something unutterably sweet and enchanting. "Oh, Marilla, I've had a most _fascinating_ time.
I feel that I have not lived in vain and I shall always feel like that even if I should never be invited to tea at a manse again.
When I got there Mrs. Allan met me at the door.
She was dressed in the sweetest dress of pale-pink organdy, with dozens of frills and elbow sleeves, and she looked just like a seraph.
I really think I'd like to be a minister's wife when I grow up, Marilla.
A minister mightn't mind my red hair because he wouldn't be thinking of such worldly things.
But then of course one would have to be naturally good and I'll never be that, so I suppose there's no use in thinking about it.
Some people are naturally good, you know, and others are not.
I'm one of the others.
Mrs. Lynde says I'm full of original sin.
No matter how hard I try to be good I can never make such a success of it as those who are naturally good.
It's a good deal like geometry, I expect.
But don't you think the trying so hard ought to count for something?
Mrs. Allan is one of the naturally good people.
You know there are some people, like Matthew and Mrs. Allan that you can love right off without any trouble.
And there are others, like Mrs. Lynde, that you have to try very hard to love.
You know you _ought_ to love them because they know so much and are such active workers in the church, but you have to keep reminding yourself of it all the time or else you forget.
There was another little girl at the manse to tea, from the White Sands Sunday-school.
Her name was Laurette Bradley, and she was a very nice little girl.
Not exactly a kindred spirit, you know, but still very nice.
We had an elegant tea, and I think I kept all the rules of etiquette pretty well.
After tea Mrs. Allan played and sang and she got Lauretta and me to sing too. Mrs. Allan says I have a good voice and she says I must sing in the Sunday-school choir after this.
You can't think how I was thrilled at the mere thought.
Lauretta says that the Americans at the hotel give a concert every fortnight in aid of the Charlottetown hospital, and they ask lots of the White Sands people to recite.
Lauretta said she expected to be asked herself someday.
I just gazed at her in awe.
After she had gone Mrs. Allan and I had a heart-to-heart talk.
I told her everything--about Mrs. Thomas and the twins and Katie Maurice and Violetta and coming to Green Gables and my troubles over geometry.
And would you believe it, Marilla?
Mrs. Allan told me she was a dunce at geometry too.
You don't know how that encouraged me.
Mrs. Lynde came to the manse just before I left, and what do you think, Marilla?
The trustees have hired a new teacher and it's a lady.
Her name is Miss Muriel Stacy.
Isn't that a romantic name?
Mrs. Lynde says they've never had a female teacher in Avonlea before and she thinks it is a dangerous innovation.
But I think it will be splendid to have a lady teacher, and I really don't see how I'm going to live through the two weeks before school begins.
I'm so impatient to see her." CHAPTER XXIII.
Anne Comes to Grief in an Affair of Honor ANNE had to live through more than two weeks, as it happened.
This presently took the form of "daring." Daring was the fashionable amusement among the Avonlea small fry just then.
Now, to "walk" board fences requires more skill and steadiness of head and heel than one might suppose who has never tried it.
But Josie Pye, if deficient in some qualities that make for popularity, had at least a natural and inborn gift, duly cultivated, for walking board fences.
Josie walked the Barry fence with an airy unconcern which seemed to imply that a little thing like that wasn't worth a "dare.
Reluctant admiration greeted her exploit, for most of the other girls could appreciate it, having suffered many things themselves in their efforts to walk fences.
Josie descended from her perch, flushed with victory, and darted a defiant glance at Anne. Anne tossed her red braids. "I don't think it's such a very wonderful thing to walk a little, low, board fence," she said.
I knew a girl in Marysville who could walk the ridgepole of a roof." "I don't believe it," said Josie flatly.
I don't believe anybody could walk a ridgepole. _You_ couldn't, anyhow." "Couldn't I?" cried Anne rashly. "Then I dare you to do it," said Josie defiantly.
I dare you to climb up there and walk the ridgepole of Mr. Barry's kitchen roof." Anne turned pale, but there was clearly only one thing to be done.
She walked toward the house, where a ladder was leaning against the kitchen roof.
All the fifth-class girls said, "Oh!" partly in excitement, partly in dismay. "Don't you do it, Anne," entreated Diana.
You'll fall off and be killed.
It isn't fair to dare anybody to do anything so dangerous." "I must do it.
My honor is at stake," said Anne solemnly.
I shall walk that ridgepole, Diana, or perish in the attempt.
Nevertheless, she managed to take several steps before the catastrophe came.
Fortunately she fell on the other side, where the roof extended down over the porch so nearly to the ground that a fall therefrom was a much less serious thing.
Before Anne could answer Mrs. Barry appeared on the scene.
At sight of her Anne tried to scramble to her feet, but sank back again with a sharp little cry of pain. "What's the matter?
Where have you hurt yourself?" demanded Mrs. Barry. "My ankle," gasped Anne.
Oh, Diana, please find your father and ask him to take me home.
I know I can never walk there.
In his arms he carried Anne, whose head lay limply against his shoulder. At that moment Marilla had a revelation.
In the sudden stab of fear that pierced her very heart she realized what Anne had come to mean to her. She would have admitted that she liked Anne--nay, that she was very fond of Anne.
I was walking the ridgepole and I fell off.
I expect I have sprained my ankle.
But, Marilla, I might have broken my neck.
Mercy me, the child has gone and fainted!" It was quite true.
Overcome by the pain of her injury, Anne had one more of her wishes granted to her.
She had fainted dead away. Matthew, hastily summoned from the harvest field, was straightway dispatched for the doctor, who in due time came, to discover that the injury was more serious than they had supposed.
If I could blame it on anybody I would feel so much better.
But what would you have done, Marilla, if you had been dared to walk a ridgepole?" "I'd have stayed on good firm ground and let them dare away.
Such absurdity!" said Marilla. Anne sighed. "But you have such strength of mind, Marilla.
I just felt that I couldn't bear Josie Pye's scorn.
She would have crowed over me all my life.
And I think I have been punished so much that you needn't be very cross with me, Marilla.
It's not a bit nice to faint, after all. And the doctor hurt me dreadfully when he was setting my ankle.
I won't be able to go around for six or seven weeks and I'll miss the new lady teacher.
She won't be new any more by the time I'm able to go to school. And Gil--everybody will get ahead of me in class.
Oh, I am an afflicted mortal.
But I'll try to bear it all bravely if only you won't be cross with me, Marilla." "There, there, I'm not cross," said Marilla.
You're an unlucky child, there's no doubt about that; but as you say, you'll have the suffering of it.
Here now, try and eat some supper." "Isn't it fortunate I've got such an imagination?" said Anne.
It will help me through splendidly, I expect.
What do people who haven't any imagination do when they break their bones, do you suppose, Marilla?" Anne had good reason to bless her imagination many a time and oft during the tedious seven weeks that followed.
But she was not solely dependent on it.
It isn't very pleasant to be laid up; but there is a bright side to it, Marilla.
You find out how many friends you have.
Why, even Superintendent Bell came to see me, and he's really a very fine man.
Not a kindred spirit, of course; but still I like him and I'm awfully sorry I ever criticized his prayers.
I believe now he really does mean them, only he has got into the habit of saying them as if he didn't.
He could get over that if he'd take a little trouble.
I gave him a good broad hint.
I told him how hard I tried to make my own little private prayers interesting.
He told me all about the time he broke his ankle when he was a boy.
It does seem so strange to think of Superintendent Bell ever being a boy.
Even my imagination has its limits, for I can't imagine _that_.
When I try to imagine him as a boy I see him with gray whiskers and spectacles, just as he looks in Sunday-school, only small.
Now, it's so easy to imagine Mrs. Allan as a little girl.
Mrs. Allan has been to see me fourteen times.
Isn't that something to be proud of, Marilla?
When a minister's wife has so many claims on her time!
She is such a cheerful person to have visit you, too.
She never tells you it's your own fault and she hopes you'll be a better girl on account of it.
Mrs. Lynde always told me that when she came to see me; and she said it in a kind of way that made me feel she might hope I'd be a better girl but didn't really believe I would.
Even Josie Pye came to see me.
I received her as politely as I could, because I think she was sorry she dared me to walk a ridgepole.
If I had been killed she would had to carry a dark burden of remorse all her life.
Diana has been a faithful friend.
She's been over every day to cheer my lonely pillow.
But oh, I shall be so glad when I can go to school for I've heard such exciting things about the new teacher.
The girls all think she is perfectly sweet.
Diana says she has the loveliest fair curly hair and such fascinating eyes.
She dresses beautifully, and her sleeve puffs are bigger than anybody else's in Avonlea.
Every other Friday afternoon she has recitations and everybody has to say a piece or take part in a dialogue.
Oh, it's just glorious to think of it.
Josie Pye says she hates it but that is just because Josie has so little imagination.
Diana and Ruby Gillis and Jane Andrews are preparing a dialogue, called 'A Morning Visit,' for next Friday.
And the Friday afternoons they don't have recitations Miss Stacy takes them all to the woods for a 'field' day and they study ferns and flowers and birds.
And they have physical culture exercises every morning and evening.
Mrs. Lynde says she never heard of such goings on and it all comes of having a lady teacher.
The dews were so heavy that the fields glistened like cloth of silver and there were such heaps of rustling leaves in the hollows of many-stemmed woods to run crisply through.
The Birch Path was a canopy of yellow and the ferns were sear and brown all along it.
Anne drew a long breath of happiness as she sharpened her pencil and arranged her picture cards in her desk.
Life was certainly very interesting. In the new teacher she found another true and helpful friend.
Miss Stacy was a bright, sympathetic young woman with the happy gift of winning and holding the affections of her pupils and bringing out the best that was in them mentally and morally.
Anne expanded like a flower under this wholesome influence and carried home to the admiring Matthew and the critical Marilla glowing accounts of schoolwork and aims. "I love Miss Stacy with my whole heart, Marilla.
She is so ladylike and she has such a sweet voice.
When she pronounces my name I feel _instinctively_ that she's spelling it with an E.
We had recitations this afternoon.
I just wish you could have been there to hear me recite 'Mary, Queen of Scots.
I just put my whole soul into it.
It won't be so exciting as it is when you have a whole schoolful before you hanging breathlessly on your words.
I wonder at Miss Stacy for encouraging it." "But we wanted a crow's nest for nature study," explained Anne.
That was on our field afternoon.
Field afternoons are splendid, Marilla. And Miss Stacy explains everything so beautifully.
We have to write compositions on our field afternoons and I write the best ones." "It's very vain of you to say so then.
You'd better let your teacher say it." "But she _did_ say it, Marilla.
And indeed I'm not vain about it.
How can I be, when I'm such a dunce at geometry?
Although I'm really beginning to see through it a little, too.
Miss Stacy makes it so clear.
Still, I'll never be good at it and I assure you it is a humbling reflection. But I love writing compositions.
Mostly Miss Stacy lets us choose our own subjects; but next week we are to write a composition on some remarkable person.
It's hard to choose among so many remarkable people who have lived.
Mustn't it be splendid to be remarkable and have compositions written about you after you're dead?
Oh, I would dearly love to be remarkable.
I think when I grow up I'll be a trained nurse and go with the Red Crosses to the field of battle as a messenger of mercy.
That is, if I don't go out as a foreign missionary.
That would be very romantic, but one would have to be very good to be a missionary, and that would be a stumbling block.
We have physical culture exercises every day, too.
This was that the scholars of Avonlea school should get up a concert and hold it in the hall on Christmas Night, for the laudable purpose of helping to pay for a schoolhouse flag.
The pupils one and all taking graciously to this plan, the preparations for a program were begun at once.
And of all the excited performers-elect none was so excited as Anne Shirley, who threw herself into the undertaking heart and soul, hampered as she was by Marilla's disapproval.
Marilla thought it all rank foolishness. "It's just filling your heads up with nonsense and taking time that ought to be put on your lessons," she grumbled.
I don't approve of children's getting up concerts and racing about to practices.
It makes them vain and forward and fond of gadding." "But think of the worthy object," pleaded Anne.
A flag will cultivate a spirit of patriotism, Marilla." "Fudge!
There's precious little patriotism in the thoughts of any of you.
All you want is a good time." "Well, when you can combine patriotism and fun, isn't it all right?
Of course it's real nice to be getting up a concert.
We're going to have six choruses and Diana is to sing a solo.
I'm in two dialogues--'The Society for the Suppression of Gossip' and 'The Fairy Queen.
The boys are going to have a dialogue too.
And I'm to have two recitations, Marilla.
I just tremble when I think of it, but it's a nice thrilly kind of tremble.
And we're to have a tableau at the last--'Faith, Hope and Charity.
Diana and Ruby and I are to be in it, all draped in white with flowing hair.
I'm to be Hope, with my hands clasped--so--and my eyes uplifted.
I'm going to practice my recitations in the garret.
Don't be alarmed if you hear me groaning.
I have to groan heartrendingly in one of them, and it's really hard to get up a good artistic groan, Marilla. Josie Pye is sulky because she didn't get the part she wanted in the dialogue.
She wanted to be the fairy queen.
That would have been ridiculous, for who ever heard of a fairy queen as fat as Josie?
Fairy queens must be slender.
Jane Andrews is to be the queen and I am to be one of her maids of honor.
Josie says she thinks a red-haired fairy is just as ridiculous as a fat one, but I do not let myself mind what Josie says.
I'm to have a wreath of white roses on my hair and Ruby Gillis is going to lend me her slippers because I haven't any of my own.
It's necessary for fairies to have slippers, you know.
You couldn't imagine a fairy wearing boots, could you?
We are going to decorate the hall with creeping spruce and fir mottoes with pink tissue-paper roses in them.
And we are all to march in two by two after the audience is seated, while Emma White plays a march on the organ.
Oh, Marilla, I know you are not so enthusiastic about it as I am, but don't you hope your little Anne will distinguish herself?" "All I hope is that you'll behave yourself.
I'll be heartily glad when all this fuss is over and you'll be able to settle down.
You are simply good for nothing just now with your head stuffed full of dialogues and groans and tableaus.
Anne perched herself on a block and talked the concert over with him, sure of an appreciative and sympathetic listener in this instance at least. "Well now, I reckon it's going to be a pretty good concert.
And I expect you'll do your part fine," he said, smiling down into her eager, vivacious little face.
Anne smiled back at him.
Those two were the best of friends and Matthew thanked his stars many a time and oft that he had nothing to do with bringing her up.
That was Marilla's exclusive duty; if it had been his he would have been worried over frequent conflicts between inclination and said duty.
As it was, he was free to, "spoil Anne"--Marilla's phrasing--as much as he liked.
But it was not such a bad arrangement after all; a little "appreciation" sometimes does quite as much good as all the conscientious "bringing up" in the world. CHAPTER XXV.
Matthew Insists on Puffed Sleeves MATTHEW was having a bad ten minutes of it.
Presently they came trooping through the hall and out into the kitchen, laughing and chattering gaily.
And what worried Matthew was that the difference impressed him as being something that should not exist.
Then in what did it consist? Matthew was haunted by this question long after the girls had gone, arm in arm, down the long, hard-frozen lane and Anne had betaken herself to her books.
This, Matthew felt, would be no great help. He had recourse to his pipe that evening to help him study it out, much to Marilla's disgust.
After two hours of smoking and hard reflection Matthew arrived at a solution of his problem.
Anne was not dressed like the other girls! The more Matthew thought about the matter the more he was convinced that Anne never had been dressed like the other girls--never since she had come to Green Gables.
Marilla kept her clothed in plain, dark dresses, all made after the same unvarying pattern.
If Matthew knew there was such a thing as fashion in dress it was as much as he did; but he was quite sure that Anne's sleeves did not look at all like the sleeves the other girls wore.
Marilla knew best and Marilla was bringing her up.
Probably some wise, inscrutable motive was to be served thereby.
But surely it would do no harm to let the child have one pretty dress--something like Diana Barry always wore.
Matthew decided that he would give her one; that surely could not be objected to as an unwarranted putting in of his oar.
Christmas was only a fortnight off. A nice new dress would be the very thing for a present.
It would be, he felt assured, no trifling ordeal.
To be sure, the Cuthberts always had gone to William Blair's; it was almost as much a matter of conscience with them as to attend the Presbyterian church and vote Conservative.
But William Blair's two daughters frequently waited on customers there and Matthew held them in absolute dread.
So he would go to Lawson's, where Samuel or his son would wait on him. Alas!
During her absence Matthew collected his scattered senses for another effort. When Miss Harris returned with the rake and cheerfully inquired: "Anything else tonight, Mr. Cuthbert?
Matthew took his courage in both hands and replied: "Well now, since you suggest it, I might as well--take--that is--look at--buy some--some hayseed." Miss Harris had heard Matthew Cuthbert called odd.
She now concluded that he was entirely crazy. "We only keep hayseed in the spring," she explained loftily.
We've none on hand just now." "Oh, certainly--certainly--just as you say," stammered unhappy Matthew, seizing the rake and making for the door.
It's the only kind we have." "I'll--I'll take twenty pounds of it," said Matthew, with beads of perspiration standing on his forehead. Matthew had driven halfway home before he was his own man again.
It had been a gruesome experience, but it served him right, he thought, for committing the heresy of going to a strange store.
When he reached home he hid the rake in the tool house, but the sugar he carried in to Marilla. "Brown sugar!" exclaimed Marilla.
Whatever possessed you to get so much?
You know I never use it except for the hired man's porridge or black fruit cake.
Jerry's gone and I've made my cake long ago.
Marilla was out of the question. Matthew felt sure she would throw cold water on his project at once. Remained only Mrs. Lynde; for of no other woman in Avonlea would Matthew have dared to ask advice.
To Mrs. Lynde he went accordingly, and that good lady promptly took the matter out of the harassed man's hands. "Pick out a dress for you to give Anne?
To be sure I will.
I'm going to Carmody tomorrow and I'll attend to it.
Have you something particular in mind?
Well, I'll just go by my own judgment then.
I believe a nice rich brown would just suit Anne, and William Blair has some new gloria in that's real pretty.
Perhaps you'd like me to make it up for her, too, seeing that if Marilla was to make it Anne would probably get wind of it before the time and spoil the surprise?
No, it isn't a mite of trouble.
If it wouldn't be asking too much I--I'd like them made in the new way." "Puffs?
You needn't worry a speck more about it, Matthew. I'll make it up in the very latest fashion," said Mrs. Lynde.
To herself she added when Matthew had gone: "It'll be a real satisfaction to see that poor child wearing something decent for once.
The way Marilla dresses her is positively ridiculous, that's what, and I've ached to tell her so plainly a dozen times.
I've held my tongue though, for I can see Marilla doesn't want advice and she thinks she knows more about bringing children up than I do for all she's an old maid.
But that's always the way.
Folks that has brought up children know that there's no hard and fast method in the world that'll suit every child.
But them as never have think it's all as plain and easy as Rule of Three--just set your three terms down so fashion, and the sum 'll work out correct.
I'm sure the child must feel the difference between her clothes and the other girls'.
But to think of Matthew taking notice of it!
I knew he was up to some foolishness.
Well, I must say I don't think Anne needed any more dresses.
I made her three good, warm, serviceable ones this fall, and anything more is sheer extravagance.
There's enough material in those sleeves alone to make a waist, I declare there is.
You'll just pamper Anne's vanity, Matthew, and she's as vain as a peacock now.
Well, I hope she'll be satisfied at last, for I know she's been hankering after those silly sleeves ever since they came in, although she never said a word after the first.
The puffs have been getting bigger and more ridiculous right along; they're as big as balloons now.
Next year anybody who wears them will have to go through a door sideways." Christmas morning broke on a beautiful white world.
It had been a very mild December and people had looked forward to a green Christmas; but just enough snow fell softly in the night to transfigure Avonlea.
Anne peeped out from her frosted gable window with delighted eyes.
The firs in the Haunted Wood were all feathery and wonderful; the birches and wild cherry-trees were outlined in pearl; the plowed fields were stretches of snowy dimples; and there was a crisp tang in the air that was glorious.
Anne ran downstairs singing until her voice reechoed through Green Gables. "Merry Christmas, Marilla!
Isn't it a lovely Christmas?
I'm so glad it's white.
Any other kind of Christmas doesn't seem real, does it?
I don't like green Christmases.
They're not green--they're just nasty faded browns and grays.
What makes people call them green?
Why--why--Matthew, is that for me?
Long elbow cuffs, and above them two beautiful puffs divided by rows of shirring and bows of brown-silk ribbon. "That's a Christmas present for you, Anne," said Matthew shyly. "Why--why--Anne, don't you like it?
Well now--well now." For Anne's eyes had suddenly filled with tears. "Like it!
Anne laid the dress over a chair and clasped her hands.
Oh, I can never thank you enough.
Oh, it seems to me this must be a happy dream." "Well, well, let us have breakfast," interrupted Marilla.
I must say, Anne, I don't think you needed the dress; but since Matthew has got it for you, see that you take good care of it.
There's a hair ribbon Mrs. Lynde left for you.
It's brown, to match the dress.
Come now, sit in." "I don't see how I'm going to eat breakfast," said Anne rapturously. "Breakfast seems so commonplace at such an exciting moment.
I'd rather feast my eyes on that dress.
I'm so glad that puffed sleeves are still fashionable.
It did seem to me that I'd never get over it if they went out before I had a dress with them.
I'd never have felt quite satisfied, you see.
It was lovely of Mrs. Lynde to give me the ribbon too.
I feel that I ought to be a very good girl indeed.
It's at times like this I'm sorry I'm not a model little girl; and I always resolve that I will be in future.
But somehow it's hard to carry out your resolutions when irresistible temptations come.
Still, I really will make an extra effort after this." When the commonplace breakfast was over Diana appeared, crossing the white log bridge in the hollow, a gay little figure in her crimson ulster.
Anne flew down the slope to meet her. "Merry Christmas, Diana!
And oh, it's a wonderful Christmas.
I've something splendid to show you.
Matthew has given me the loveliest dress, with _such_ sleeves.
I couldn't even imagine any nicer." "I've got something more for you," said Diana breathlessly.
Aunt Josephine sent us out a big box with ever so many things in it--and this is for you.
I must be dreaming." "I call it providential," said Diana.
You won't have to borrow Ruby's slippers now, and that's a blessing, for they're two sizes too big for you, and it would be awful to hear a fairy shuffling.
Josie Pye would be delighted.
Mind you, Rob Wright went home with Gertie Pye from the practice night before last.
I guess we must have made as much as ten dollars.
Mind you, Mr. Allan is going to send an account of it to the Charlottetown papers." "Oh, Diana, will we really see our names in print?
It makes me thrill to think of it.
Your solo was perfectly elegant, Diana.
I felt prouder than you did when it was encored.
I just said to myself, 'It is my dear bosom friend who is so honored.'" "Well, your recitations just brought down the house, Anne.
That sad one was simply splendid." "Oh, I was so nervous, Diana.
When Mr. Allan called out my name I really cannot tell how I ever got up on that platform.
I felt as if a million eyes were looking at me and through me, and for one dreadful moment I was sure I couldn't begin at all.
Then I thought of my lovely puffed sleeves and took courage.
I knew that I must live up to those sleeves, Diana.
So I started in, and my voice seemed to be coming from ever so far away.
I just felt like a parrot.
It's providential that I practiced those recitations so often up in the garret, or I'd never have been able to get through.
Did I groan all right?" "Yes, indeed, you groaned lovely," assured Diana. "I saw old Mrs. Sloane wiping away tears when I sat down.
It was splendid to think I had touched somebody's heart.
It's so romantic to take part in a concert, isn't it?
Oh, it's been a very memorable occasion indeed." "Wasn't the boys' dialogue fine?" said Diana.
Gilbert Blythe was just splendid.
Anne, I do think it's awful mean the way you treat Gil.
Wait till I tell you.
When you ran off the platform after the fairy dialogue one of your roses fell out of your hair.
I saw Gil pick it up and put it in his breast pocket.
You're so romantic that I'm sure you ought to be pleased at that." "It's nothing to me what that person does," said Anne loftily.
She's a bright child, Matthew.
And she looked real nice too.
I've been kind of opposed to this concert scheme, but I suppose there's no real harm in it after all.
Anyhow, I was proud of Anne tonight, although I'm not going to tell her so." "Well now, I was proud of her and I did tell her so 'fore she went upstairs," said Matthew.
We must see what we can do for her some of these days, Marilla.
I guess she'll need something more than Avonlea school by and by." "There's time enough to think of that," said Marilla.
She's only thirteen in March.
Though tonight it struck me she was growing quite a big girl.
Mrs. Lynde made that dress a mite too long, and it makes Anne look so tall.
She's quick to learn and I guess the best thing we can do for her will be to send her to Queen's after a spell.
But nothing need be said about that for a year or two yet." "Well now, it'll do no harm to be thinking it over off and on," said Matthew.
Things like that are all the better for lots of thinking over." CHAPTER XXVI.
The Story Club Is Formed JUNIOR Avonlea found it hard to settle down to humdrum existence again.
To Anne in particular things seemed fearfully flat, stale, and unprofitable after the goblet of excitement she had been sipping for weeks.
Could she go back to the former quiet pleasures of those faraway days before the concert?
Perhaps after a while I'll get used to it, but I'm afraid concerts spoil people for everyday life.
I suppose that is why Marilla disapproves of them. Marilla is such a sensible woman.
It must be a great deal better to be sensible; but still, I don't believe I'd really want to be a sensible person, because they are so unromantic.
Mrs. Lynde says there is no danger of my ever being one, but you can never tell.
I feel just now that I may grow up to be sensible yet.
But perhaps that is only because I'm tired.
I simply couldn't sleep last night for ever so long.
I just lay awake and imagined the concert over and over again.
That's one splendid thing about such affairs--it's so lovely to look back to them." Eventually, however, Avonlea school slipped back into its old groove and took up its old interests.
To be sure, the concert left traces.
Ruby Gillis and Emma White, who had quarreled over a point of precedence in their platform seats, no longer sat at the same desk, and a promising friendship of three years was broken up.
With the exception of these trifling frictions, work in Miss Stacy's little kingdom went on with regularity and smoothness. The winter weeks slipped by.
It was an unusually mild winter, with so little snow that Anne and Diana could go to school nearly every day by way of the Birch Path.
I can scarcely realize that I'm in my teens.
When I woke this morning it seemed to me that everything must be different.
You've been thirteen for a month, so I suppose it doesn't seem such a novelty to you as it does to me.
It makes life seem so much more interesting. In two more years I'll be really grown up.
But I'm afraid that is an uncharitable speech.
Mrs. Allan says we should never make uncharitable speeches; but they do slip out so often before you think, don't they?
I simply can't talk about Josie Pye without making an uncharitable speech, so I never mention her at all.
You may have noticed that.
I'm trying to be as much like Mrs. Allan as I possibly can, for I think she's perfect. Mr. Allan thinks so too.
Mrs. Lynde says he just worships the ground she treads on and she doesn't really think it right for a minister to set his affections so much on a mortal being.
But then, Diana, even ministers are human and have their besetting sins just like everybody else.
I had such an interesting talk with Mrs. Allan about besetting sins last Sunday afternoon.
There are just a few things it's proper to talk about on Sundays and that is one of them.
My besetting sin is imagining too much and forgetting my duties.
I shall wait until I'm seventeen." "If I had Alice Bell's crooked nose," said Anne decidedly, "I wouldn't--but there!
I won't say what I was going to because it was extremely uncharitable.
Besides, I was comparing it with my own nose and that's vanity.
I'm afraid I think too much about my nose ever since I heard that compliment about it long ago.
It really is a great comfort to me.
Oh, Diana, look, there's a rabbit.
That's something to remember for our woods composition.
I really think the woods are just as lovely in winter as in summer.
They're so white and still, as if they were asleep and dreaming pretty dreams." "I won't mind writing that composition when its time comes," sighed Diana.
I can manage to write about the woods, but the one we're to hand in Monday is terrible.
I suppose you have your composition all done?" Anne nodded, trying hard not to look virtuously complacent and failing miserably. "I wrote it last Monday evening.
It's called 'The Jealous Rival; or In Death Not Divided.
I read it to Marilla and she said it was stuff and nonsense.
Then I read it to Matthew and he said it was fine.
That is the kind of critic I like.
It's a sad, sweet story.
I just cried like a child while I was writing it.
It's about two beautiful maidens called Cordelia Montmorency and Geraldine Seymour who lived in the same village and were devotedly attached to each other.
Cordelia was a regal brunette with a coronet of midnight hair and duskly flashing eyes.
Geraldine was a queenly blonde with hair like spun gold and velvety purple eyes." "I never saw anybody with purple eyes," said Diana dubiously. "Neither did I.
I wanted something out of the common.
Geraldine had an alabaster brow too.
I've found out what an alabaster brow is.
That is one of the advantages of being thirteen.
Then Bertram DeVere came to their native village and fell in love with the fair Geraldine.
He saved her life when her horse ran away with her in a carriage, and she fainted in his arms and he carried her home three miles; because, you understand, the carriage was all smashed up.
I found it rather hard to imagine the proposal because I had no experience to go by.
I asked Ruby Gillis if she knew anything about how men proposed because I thought she'd likely be an authority on the subject, having so many sisters married.
Ruby told me she was hid in the hall pantry when Malcolm Andres proposed to her sister Susan.
She said Malcolm told Susan that his dad had given him the farm in his own name and then said, 'What do you say, darling pet, if we get hitched this fall?
And Susan said, 'Yes--no--I don't know--let me see'--and there they were, engaged as quick as that.
Geraldine accepted him in a speech a page long.
I can tell you I took a lot of trouble with that speech.
I rewrote it five times and I look upon it as my masterpiece.
Bertram gave her a diamond ring and a ruby necklace and told her they would go to Europe for a wedding tour, for he was immensely wealthy.
But then, alas, shadows began to darken over their path.
Cordelia was secretly in love with Bertram herself and when Geraldine told her about the engagement she was simply furious, especially when she saw the necklace and the diamond ring.
All her affection for Geraldine turned to bitter hate and she vowed that she should never marry Bertram.
But she pretended to be Geraldine's friend the same as ever.
One evening they were standing on the bridge over a rushing turbulent stream and Cordelia, thinking they were alone, pushed Geraldine over the brink with a wild, mocking, 'Ha, ha, ha.
But Bertram saw it all and he at once plunged into the current, exclaiming, 'I will save thee, my peerless Geraldine.
But alas, he had forgotten he couldn't swim, and they were both drowned, clasped in each other's arms. Their bodies were washed ashore soon afterwards.
They were buried in the one grave and their funeral was most imposing, Diana.
It's so much more romantic to end a story up with a funeral than a wedding.
As for Cordelia, she went insane with remorse and was shut up in a lunatic asylum.
I thought that was a poetical retribution for her crime." "How perfectly lovely!" sighed Diana, who belonged to Matthew's school of critics.
I don't see how you can make up such thrilling things out of your own head, Anne.
I wish my imagination was as good as yours." "It would be if you'd only cultivate it," said Anne cheeringly.
I've just thought of a plan, Diana.
Let you and me have a story club all our own and write stories for practice.
I'll help you along until you can do them by yourself.
You ought to cultivate your imagination, you know. Miss Stacy says so.
Only we must take the right way.
I told her about the Haunted Wood, but she said we went the wrong way about it in that." This was how the story club came into existence.
It was limited to Diana and Anne at first, but soon it was extended to include Jane Andrews and Ruby Gillis and one or two others who felt that their imaginations needed cultivating.
No boys were allowed in it--although Ruby Gillis opined that their admission would make it more exciting--and each member had to produce one story a week. "It's extremely interesting," Anne told Marilla.
Each girl has to read her story out loud and then we talk it over.
We are going to keep them all sacredly and have them to read to our descendants.
We each write under a nom-de-plume.
All the girls do pretty well.
Ruby Gillis is rather sentimental.
She puts too much lovemaking into her stories and you know too much is worse than too little.
Jane never puts any because she says it makes her feel so silly when she had to read it out loud.
Jane's stories are extremely sensible. Then Diana puts too many murders into hers.
She says most of the time she doesn't know what to do with the people so she kills them off to get rid of them.
I mostly always have to tell them what to write about, but that isn't hard for I've millions of ideas." "I think this story-writing business is the foolishest yet," scoffed Marilla.
You'll get a pack of nonsense into your heads and waste time that should be put on your lessons.
Reading stories is bad enough but writing them is worse." "But we're so careful to put a moral into them all, Marilla," explained Anne.
All the good people are rewarded and all the bad ones are suitably punished.
I'm sure that must have a wholesome effect.
The moral is the great thing.
I read one of my stories to him and Mrs. Allan and they both agreed that the moral was excellent.
Only they laughed in the wrong places.
I like it better when people cry.
Jane and Ruby almost always cry when I come to the pathetic parts.
Diana wrote her Aunt Josephine about our club and her Aunt Josephine wrote back that we were to send her some of our stories.
So we copied out four of our very best and sent them.
Miss Josephine Barry wrote back that she had never read anything so amusing in her life.
That kind of puzzled us because the stories were all very pathetic and almost everybody died.
But I'm glad Miss Barry liked them.
It shows our club is doing some good in the world.
Mrs. Allan says that ought to be our object in everything.
I do really try to make it my object but I forget so often when I'm having fun.
I hope I shall be a little like Mrs. Allan when I grow up.
Do you think there is any prospect of it, Marilla?" "I shouldn't say there was a great deal" was Marilla's encouraging answer.
I'm sure Mrs. Allan was never such a silly, forgetful little girl as you are." "No; but she wasn't always so good as she is now either," said Anne seriously.
She told me so herself--that is, she said she was a dreadful mischief when she was a girl and was always getting into scrapes.
I felt so encouraged when I heard that.
Is it very wicked of me, Marilla, to feel encouraged when I hear that other people have been bad and mischievous?
Mrs. Lynde says it is.
Mrs. Lynde says she always feels shocked when she hears of anyone ever having been naughty, no matter how small they were.
Mrs. Lynde says she once heard a minister confess that when he was a boy he stole a strawberry tart out of his aunt's pantry and she never had any respect for that minister again.
Now, I wouldn't have felt that way.
You've taken half an hour longer than you should with all your chattering.
Learn to work first and talk afterwards." CHAPTER XXVII.
Marilla was not given to subjective analysis of her thoughts and feelings.
Matthew had come in and was waiting patiently for his tea in his corner.
She's gadding off somewhere with Diana, writing stories or practicing dialogues or some such tomfoolery, and never thinking once about the time or her duties.
She's just got to be pulled up short and sudden on this sort of thing.
I don't care if Mrs. Allan does say she's the brightest and sweetest child she ever knew.
She may be bright and sweet enough, but her head is full of nonsense and there's never any knowing what shape it'll break out in next.
Just as soon as she grows out of one freak she takes up with another.
Here I am saying the very thing I was so riled with Rachel Lynde for saying at the Aid today.
I was real glad when Mrs. Allan spoke up for Anne, for if she hadn't I know I'd have said something too sharp to Rachel before everybody.
Anne's got plenty of faults, goodness knows, and far be it from me to deny it.
But I'm bringing her up and not Rachel Lynde, who'd pick faults in the Angel Gabriel himself if he lived in Avonlea.
Just the same, Anne has no business to leave the house like this when I told her she was to stay home this afternoon and look after things.
Perhaps you're judging her too hasty, Marilla.
Don't call her untrustworthy until you're sure she has disobeyed you.
Mebbe it can all be explained--Anne's a great hand at explaining." "She's not here when I told her to stay," retorted Marilla.
I reckon she'll find it hard to explain _that_ to my satisfaction.
Of course I knew you'd take her part, Matthew.
But I'm bringing her up, not you." It was dark when supper was ready, and still no sign of Anne, coming hurriedly over the log bridge or up Lover's Lane, breathless and repentant with a sense of neglected duties.
Marilla washed and put away the dishes grimly.
Then, wanting a candle to light her way down the cellar, she went up to the east gable for the one that generally stood on Anne's table.
I'm in the depths of despair and I don't care who gets head in class or writes the best composition or sings in the Sunday-school choir any more.
Little things like that are of no importance now because I don't suppose I'll ever be able to go anywhere again.
Please, Marilla, go away and don't look at me." "Did anyone ever hear the like?" the mystified Marilla wanted to know. "Anne Shirley, whatever is the matter with you?
Get right up this minute and tell me.
There now, what is it?" Anne had slid to the floor in despairing obedience. "Look at my hair, Marilla," she whispered. Accordingly, Marilla lifted her candle and looked scrutinizingly at Anne's hair, flowing in heavy masses down her back.
It certainly had a very strange appearance. "Anne Shirley, what have you done to your hair?
Why, it's _green!_" Green it might be called, if it were any earthly color--a queer, dull, bronzy green, with streaks here and there of the original red to heighten the ghastly effect.
Never in all her life had Marilla seen anything so grotesque as Anne's hair at that moment. "Yes, it's green," moaned Anne.
I thought nothing could be as bad as red hair.
But now I know it's ten times worse to have green hair.
Oh, Marilla, you little know how utterly wretched I am." "I little know how you got into this fix, but I mean to find out," said Marilla.
Come right down to the kitchen--it's too cold up here--and tell me just what you've done.
I've been expecting something queer for some time.
You haven't got into any scrape for over two months, and I was sure another one was due.
Now, then, what did you do to your hair?" "I dyed it." "Dyed it!
Anne Shirley, didn't you know it was a wicked thing to do?" "Yes, I knew it was a little wicked," admitted Anne.
But I thought it was worth while to be a little wicked to get rid of red hair.
I counted the cost, Marilla.
Besides, I meant to be extra good in other ways to make up for it." "Well," said Marilla sarcastically, "if I'd decided it was worth while to dye my hair I'd have dyed it a decent color at least.
I wouldn't have dyed it green." "But I didn't mean to dye it green, Marilla," protested Anne dejectedly. "If I was wicked I meant to be wicked to some purpose.
He said it would turn my hair a beautiful raven black--he positively assured me that it would.
How could I doubt his word, Marilla?
I know what it feels like to have your word doubted.
And Mrs. Allan says we should never suspect anyone of not telling us the truth unless we have proof that they're not.
I have proof now--green hair is proof enough for anybody.
But I hadn't then and I believed every word he said _implicitly_." "Who said?
Who are you talking about?" "The peddler that was here this afternoon.
I bought the dye from him." "Anne Shirley, how often have I told you never to let one of those Italians in the house!
I don't believe in encouraging them to come around at all." "Oh, I didn't let him in the house.
I remembered what you told me, and I went out, carefully shut the door, and looked at his things on the step. Besides, he wasn't an Italian--he was a German Jew.
He had a big box full of very interesting things and he told me he was working hard to make enough money to bring his wife and children out from Germany.
He spoke so feelingly about them that it touched my heart.
I wanted to buy something from him to help him in such a worthy object.
Then all at once I saw the bottle of hair dye.
The peddler said it was warranted to dye any hair a beautiful raven black and wouldn't wash off.
In a trice I saw myself with beautiful raven-black hair and the temptation was irresistible.
But the price of the bottle was seventy-five cents and I had only fifty cents left out of my chicken money.
I think the peddler had a very kind heart, for he said that, seeing it was me, he'd sell it for fifty cents and that was just giving it away.
So I bought it, and as soon as he had gone I came up here and applied it with an old hairbrush as the directions said.
I used up the whole bottle, and oh, Marilla, when I saw the dreadful color it turned my hair I repented of being wicked, I can tell you.
And I've been repenting ever since." "Well, I hope you'll repent to good purpose," said Marilla severely, "and that you've got your eyes opened to where your vanity has led you, Anne.
Goodness knows what's to be done.
The peddler had certainly spoken the truth when he declared that the dye wouldn't wash off, however his veracity might be impeached in other respects. "Oh, Marilla, what shall I do?" questioned Anne in tears.
I can never live this down.
People have pretty well forgotten my other mistakes--the liniment cake and setting Diana drunk and flying into a temper with Mrs. Lynde.
But they'll never forget this.
They will think I am not respectable.
Oh, Marilla, 'what a tangled web we weave when first we practice to deceive.
That is poetry, but it is true.
And oh, how Josie Pye will laugh!
Marilla, I _cannot_ face Josie Pye.
I am the unhappiest girl in Prince Edward Island." Anne's unhappiness continued for a week.
During that time she went nowhere and shampooed her hair every day.
Diana alone of outsiders knew the fatal secret, but she promised solemnly never to tell, and it may be stated here and now that she kept her word.
At the end of the week Marilla said decidedly: "It's no use, Anne.
That is fast dye if ever there was any.
Your hair must be cut off; there is no other way.
You can't go out with it looking like that." Anne's lips quivered, but she realized the bitter truth of Marilla's remarks.
With a dismal sigh she went for the scissors. "Please cut it off at once, Marilla, and have it over.
Oh, I feel that my heart is broken.
This is such an unromantic affliction.
The girls in books lose their hair in fevers or sell it to get money for some good deed, and I'm sure I wouldn't mind losing my hair in some such fashion half so much.
But there is nothing comforting in having your hair cut off because you've dyed it a dreadful color, is there?
I'm going to weep all the time you're cutting it off, if it won't interfere.
It seems such a tragic thing." Anne wept then, but later on, when she went upstairs and looked in the glass, she was calm with despair.
Marilla had done her work thoroughly and it had been necessary to shingle the hair as closely as possible. The result was not becoming, to state the case as mildly as may be.
Anne promptly turned her glass to the wall. "I'll never, never look at myself again until my hair grows," she exclaimed passionately. Then she suddenly righted the glass. "Yes, I will, too.
I'd do penance for being wicked that way.
I'll look at myself every time I come to my room and see how ugly I am. And I won't try to imagine it away, either.
I never thought I was vain about my hair, of all things, but now I know I was, in spite of its being red, because it was so long and thick and curly.
It's hard to be told you look like a scarecrow and I wanted to say something back.
I just swept her one scornful look and then I forgave her.
It makes you feel very virtuous when you forgive people, doesn't it?
I mean to devote all my energies to being good after this and I shall never try to be beautiful again.
Of course it's better to be good.
I know it is, but it's sometimes so hard to believe a thing even when you know it.
I do really want to be good, Marilla, like you and Mrs. Allan and Miss Stacy, and grow up to be a credit to you.
Diana says when my hair begins to grow to tie a black velvet ribbon around my head with a bow at one side.
She says she thinks it will be very becoming.
I will call it a snood--that sounds so romantic.
But am I talking too much, Marilla?
Does it hurt your head?" "My head is better now.
It was terrible bad this afternoon, though. These headaches of mine are getting worse and worse.
I'll have to see a doctor about them.
As for your chatter, I don't know that I mind it--I've got so used to it." Which was Marilla's way of saying that she liked to hear it. CHAPTER XXVIII.
An Unfortunate Lily Maid OF course you must be Elaine, Anne," said Diana.
I could never have the courage to float down there." "Nor I," said Ruby Gillis, with a shiver.
I don't mind floating down when there's two or three of us in the flat and we can sit up.
But to lie down and pretend I was dead--I just couldn't.
I'd die really of fright." "Of course it would be romantic," conceded Jane Andrews, "but I know I couldn't keep still.
I'd be popping up every minute or so to see where I was and if I wasn't drifting too far out.
And you know, Anne, that would spoil the effect." "But it's so ridiculous to have a redheaded Elaine," mourned Anne.
I'm not afraid to float down and I'd love to be Elaine.
But it's ridiculous just the same.
Ruby ought to be Elaine because she is so fair and has such lovely long golden hair--Elaine had 'all her bright hair streaming down,' you know.
And Elaine was the lily maid.
I've sometimes thought it was myself--but I never dared to ask anyone for fear she would tell me it wasn't.
Ruby and Jane were spending the midsummer afternoon with Diana, and Anne had come over to play with them. Anne and Diana had spent most of their playtime that summer on and about the pond.
It was splendid to fish for trout over the bridge and the two girls learned to row themselves about in the little flat-bottomed dory Mr. Barry kept for duck shooting. It was Anne's idea that they dramatize Elaine.
They had studied Tennyson's poem in school the preceding winter, the Superintendent of Education having prescribed it in the English course for the Prince Edward Island schools.
Ruby, you must be King Arthur and Jane will be Guinevere and Diana must be Lancelot.
But first you must be the brothers and the father.
We can't have the old dumb servitor because there isn't room for two in the flat when one is lying down.
We must pall the barge all its length in blackest samite.
It makes me feel frightened, girls.
Do you suppose it's really right to act like this?
Mrs. Lynde says that all play-acting is abominably wicked." "Ruby, you shouldn't talk about Mrs. Lynde," said Anne severely.
It spoils the effect because this is hundreds of years before Mrs. Lynde was born.
It's silly for Elaine to be talking when she's dead." Jane rose to the occasion.
Cloth of gold for coverlet there was none, but an old piano scarf of yellow Japanese crepe was an excellent substitute.
A white lily was not obtainable just then, but the effect of a tall blue iris placed in one of Anne's folded hands was all that could be desired. "Now, she's all ready," said Jane.
We must kiss her quiet brows and, Diana, you say, 'Sister, farewell forever,' and Ruby, you say, 'Farewell, sweet sister,' both of you as sorrowfully as you possibly can.
Anne, for goodness sake smile a little.
You know Elaine 'lay as though she smiled.
Now push the flat off." The flat was accordingly pushed off, scraping roughly over an old embedded stake in the process.
Then something happened not at all romantic.
The flat began to leak.
That sharp stake at the landing had torn off the strip of batting nailed on the flat.
Anne did not know this, but it did not take her long to realize that she was in a dangerous plight.
At this rate the flat would fill and sink long before it could drift to the lower headland.
Left behind at the landing! Anne gave one gasping little scream which nobody ever heard; she was white to the lips, but she did not lose her self-possession.
There was one chance--just one. "I was horribly frightened," she told Mrs. Allan the next day, "and it seemed like years while the flat was drifting down to the bridge and the water rising in it every moment.
You know the piles are just old tree trunks and there are lots of knots and old branch stubs on them.
It was proper to pray, but I had to do my part by watching out and right well I knew it.
I just said, 'Dear God, please take the flat close to a pile and I'll do the rest,' over and over again.
Under such circumstances you don't think much about making a flowery prayer.
But mine was answered, for the flat bumped right into a pile for a minute and I flung the scarf and the shawl over my shoulder and scrambled up on a big providential stub.
And there I was, Mrs. Allan, clinging to that slippery old pile with no way of getting up or down.
It was a very unromantic position, but I didn't think about that at the time.
You don't think much about romance when you have just escaped from a watery grave.
Help would soon come, but meanwhile her position was a very uncomfortable one. The minutes passed by, each seeming an hour to the unfortunate lily maid.
Where had the girls gone?
Suppose they had fainted, one and all!
Suppose she grew so tired and cramped that she could hold on no longer!
Anne looked at the wicked green depths below her, wavering with long, oily shadows, and shivered.
How on earth did you get there?" he exclaimed. Without waiting for an answer he pulled close to the pile and extended his hand.
There was no help for it; Anne, clinging to Gilbert Blythe's hand, scrambled down into the dory, where she sat, drabbled and furious, in the stern with her arms full of dripping shawl and wet crepe.
The flat began to leak and I climbed out on the pile. The girls went for help.
Can't we be good friends?
I'm awfully sorry I made fun of your hair that time.
I didn't mean to vex you and I only meant it for a joke.
Besides, it's so long ago.
I think your hair is awfully pretty now--honest I do.
Let's be friends." For a moment Anne hesitated.
She had an odd, newly awakened consciousness under all her outraged dignity that the half-shy, half-eager expression in Gilbert's hazel eyes was something that was very good to see.
Her heart gave a quick, queer little beat.
But the bitterness of her old grievance promptly stiffened up her wavering determination.
That scene of two years before flashed back into her recollection as vividly as if it had taken place yesterday.
Gilbert had called her "carrots" and had brought about her disgrace before the whole school.
Her resentment, which to other and older people might be as laughable as its cause, was in no whit allayed and softened by time seemingly.
She would never forgive him! "No," she said coldly, "I shall never be friends with you, Gilbert Blythe; and I don't want to be!" "All right!
Gilbert sprang into his skiff with an angry color in his cheeks.
I'll never ask you to be friends again, Anne Shirley.
And I don't care either!" He pulled away with swift defiant strokes, and Anne went up the steep, ferny little path under the maples.
She held her head very high, but she was conscious of an odd feeling of regret.
She almost wished she had answered Gilbert differently.
Of course, he had insulted her terribly, but still--!
Altogether, Anne rather thought it would be a relief to sit down and have a good cry.
She was really quite unstrung, for the reaction from her fright and cramped clinging was making itself felt. Halfway up the path she met Jane and Diana rushing back to the pond in a state narrowly removed from positive frenzy.
They had found nobody at Orchard Slope, both Mr. and Mrs. Barry being away.
Here Ruby Gillis had succumbed to hysterics, and was left to recover from them as best she might, while Jane and Diana flew through the Haunted Wood and across the brook to Green Gables.
Why, it's so romantic!" said Jane, finding breath enough for utterance at last.
Of course you'll speak to him after this." "Of course I won't," flashed Anne, with a momentary return of her old spirit.
And I don't want ever to hear the word 'romantic' again, Jane Andrews.
I'm awfully sorry you were so frightened, girls.
It is all my fault.
I feel sure I was born under an unlucky star.
Everything I do gets me or my dearest friends into a scrape.
We've gone and lost your father's flat, Diana, and I have a presentiment that we'll not be allowed to row on the pond any more." Anne's presentiment proved more trustworthy than presentiments are apt to do.
Great was the consternation in the Barry and Cuthbert households when the events of the afternoon became known. "Will you ever have any sense, Anne?" groaned Marilla. "Oh, yes, I think I will, Marilla," returned Anne optimistically.
A good cry, indulged in the grateful solitude of the east gable, had soothed her nerves and restored her to her wonted cheerfulness.
The affair of the amethyst brooch cured me of meddling with things that didn't belong to me.
The Haunted Wood mistake cured me of letting my imagination run away with me.
The liniment cake mistake cured me of carelessness in cooking.
Dyeing my hair cured me of vanity.
I never think about my hair and nose now--at least, very seldom.
And today's mistake is going to cure me of being too romantic.
I have come to the conclusion that it is no use trying to be romantic in Avonlea.
It was probably easy enough in towered Camelot hundreds of years ago, but romance is not appreciated now.
An Epoch in Anne's Life ANNE was bringing the cows home from the back pasture by way of Lover's Lane.
It was a September evening and all the gaps and clearings in the woods were brimmed up with ruby sunset light.
Here and there the lane was splashed with it, but for the most part it was already quite shadowy beneath the maples, and the spaces under the firs were filled with a clear violet dusk like airy wine.
When she came to the lines The stubborn spearsmen still made good Their dark impenetrable wood, she stopped in ecstasy to shut her eyes that she might the better fancy herself one of that heroic ring.
When she opened them again it was to behold Diana coming through the gate that led into the Barry field and looking so important that Anne instantly divined there was news to be told.
But betray too eager curiosity she would not. "Isn't this evening just like a purple dream, Diana?
It makes me so glad to be alive.
In the mornings I always think the mornings are best; but when evening comes I think it's lovelier still." "It's a very fine evening," said Diana, "but oh, I have such news, Anne. Guess.
It's too mean, because it would be such fun.
I wouldn't be likely to boast of it if he did, the horrid creature!
I knew you couldn't guess it.
Mother had a letter from Aunt Josephine today, and Aunt Josephine wants you and me to go to town next Tuesday and stop with her for the Exhibition.
There!" "Oh, Diana," whispered Anne, finding it necessary to lean up against a maple tree for support, "do you really mean it?
But I'm afraid Marilla won't let me go.
She will say that she can't encourage gadding about. That was what she said last week when Jane invited me to go with them in their double-seated buggy to the American concert at the White Sands Hotel.
I wanted to go, but Marilla said I'd be better at home learning my lessons and so would Jane.
I was bitterly disappointed, Diana.
I felt so heartbroken that I wouldn't say my prayers when I went to bed.
But I repented of that and got up in the middle of the night and said them." "I'll tell you," said Diana, "we'll get Mother to ask Marilla.
She'll be more likely to let you go then; and if she does we'll have the time of our lives, Anne.
I've never been to an Exhibition, and it's so aggravating to hear the other girls talking about their trips.
Jane and Ruby have been twice, and they're going this year again." "I'm not going to think about it at all until I know whether I can go or not," said Anne resolutely.
If I did and then was disappointed, it would be more than I could bear.
But in case I do go I'm very glad my new coat will be ready by that time.
Marilla didn't think I needed a new coat.
She said my old one would do very well for another winter and that I ought to be satisfied with having a new dress.
The dress is very pretty, Diana--navy blue and made so fashionably.
Marilla always makes my dresses fashionably now, because she says she doesn't intend to have Matthew going to Mrs. Lynde to make them.
It is ever so much easier to be good if your clothes are fashionable.
At least, it is easier for me.
I suppose it doesn't make such a difference to naturally good people.
But Matthew said I must have a new coat, so Marilla bought a lovely piece of blue broadcloth, and it's being made by a real dressmaker over at Carmody.
It's to be done Saturday night, and I'm trying not to imagine myself walking up the church aisle on Sunday in my new suit and cap, because I'm afraid it isn't right to imagine such things.
But it just slips into my mind in spite of me.
My cap is so pretty.
Matthew bought it for me the day we were over at Carmody.
It is one of those little blue velvet ones that are all the rage, with gold cord and tassels.
Your new hat is elegant, Diana, and so becoming.
When I saw you come into church last Sunday my heart swelled with pride to think you were my dearest friend.
Do you suppose it's wrong for us to think so much about our clothes?
Marilla says it is very sinful.
But it is such an interesting subject, isn't it?" Marilla agreed to let Anne go to town, and it was arranged that Mr. Barry should take the girls in on the following Tuesday.
As Charlottetown was thirty miles away and Mr. Barry wished to go and return the same day, it was necessary to make a very early start.
After breakfast the jaunty new cap and jacket were donned, and Anne hastened over the brook and up through the firs to Orchard Slope.
Mr. Barry and Diana were waiting for her, and they were soon on the road. It was a long drive, but Anne and Diana enjoyed every minute of it.
It was delightful to rattle along over the moist roads in the early red sunlight that was creeping across the shorn harvest fields.
The air was fresh and crisp, and little smoke-blue mists curled through the valleys and floated off from the hills.
It was almost noon when they reached town and found their way to "Beechwood." It was quite a fine old mansion, set back from the street in a seclusion of green elms and branching beeches.
Miss Barry met them at the door with a twinkle in her sharp black eyes. "So you've come to see me at last, you Anne-girl," she said.
Mercy, child, how you have grown!
You're taller than I am, I declare.
And you're ever so much better-looking than you used to be, too.
But I dare say you know that without being told." "Indeed I didn't," said Anne radiantly.
I know I'm not so freckled as I used to be, so I've much to be thankful for, but I really hadn't dared to hope there was any other improvement.
I'm so glad you think there is, Miss Barry.
Miss Barry's house was furnished with "great magnificence," as Anne told Marilla afterward.
The two little country girls were rather abashed by the splendor of the parlor where Miss Barry left them when she went to see about dinner. "Isn't it just like a palace?" whispered Diana.
I never was in Aunt Josephine's house before, and I'd no idea it was so grand.
I just wish Julia Bell could see this--she puts on such airs about her mother's parlor." "Velvet carpet," sighed Anne luxuriously, "and silk curtains!
I've dreamed of such things, Diana.
But do you know I don't believe I feel very comfortable with them after all.
There are so many things in this room and all so splendid that there is no scope for imagination.
That is one consolation when you are poor--there are so many more things you can imagine about." Their sojourn in town was something that Anne and Diana dated from for years.
From first to last it was crowded with delights. On Wednesday Miss Barry took them to the Exhibition grounds and kept them there all day. "It was splendid," Anne related to Marilla later on.
I never imagined anything so interesting.
I don't really know which department was the most interesting.
I think I liked the horses and the flowers and the fancywork best.
Josie Pye took first prize for knitted lace.
I was real glad she did.
And I was glad that I felt glad, for it shows I'm improving, don't you think, Marilla, when I can rejoice in Josie's success?
Mr. Harmon Andrews took second prize for Gravenstein apples and Mr. Bell took first prize for a pig.
Diana said she thought it was ridiculous for a Sunday-school superintendent to take a prize in pigs, but I don't see why.
She said she would always think of it after this when he was praying so solemnly.
Clara Louise MacPherson took a prize for painting, and Mrs. Lynde got first prize for homemade butter and cheese.
So Avonlea was pretty well represented, wasn't it?
Mrs. Lynde was there that day, and I never knew how much I really liked her until I saw her familiar face among all those strangers.
There were thousands of people there, Marilla.
It made me feel dreadfully insignificant.
And Miss Barry took us up to the grandstand to see the horse races.
Mrs. Lynde wouldn't go; she said horse racing was an abomination and, she being a church member, thought it her bounden duty to set a good example by staying away.
But there were so many there I don't believe Mrs. Lynde's absence would ever be noticed.
I don't think, though, that I ought to go very often to horse races, because they _are_ awfully fascinating.
Diana got so excited that she offered to bet me ten cents that the red horse would win.
I didn't believe he would, but I refused to bet, because I wanted to tell Mrs. Allan all about everything, and I felt sure it wouldn't do to tell her that.
It's always wrong to do anything you can't tell the minister's wife.
It's as good as an extra conscience to have a minister's wife for your friend.
And I was very glad I didn't bet, because the red horse _did_ win, and I would have lost ten cents.
So you see that virtue was its own reward.
We saw a man go up in a balloon.
I'd love to go up in a balloon, Marilla; it would be simply thrilling; and we saw a man selling fortunes.
You paid him ten cents and a little bird picked out your fortune for you.
Miss Barry gave Diana and me ten cents each to have our fortunes told.
Mine was that I would marry a dark-complected man who was very wealthy, and I would go across water to live.
I looked carefully at all the dark men I saw after that, but I didn't care much for any of them, and anyhow I suppose it's too early to be looking out for him yet.
Oh, it was a never-to-be-forgotten day, Marilla.
I was so tired I couldn't sleep at night.
Miss Barry put us in the spare room, according to promise.
It was an elegant room, Marilla, but somehow sleeping in a spare room isn't what I used to think it was.
That's the worst of growing up, and I'm beginning to realize it.
To Anne the evening was a glittering vision of delight. "Oh, Marilla, it was beyond description.
I was so excited I couldn't even talk, so you may know what it was like.
I just sat in enraptured silence.
Madame Selitsky was perfectly beautiful, and wore white satin and diamonds.
But when she began to sing I never thought about anything else.
Oh, I can't tell you how I felt.
But it seemed to me that it could never be hard to be good any more.
I felt like I do when I look up to the stars.
Tears came into my eyes, but, oh, they were such happy tears. I was so sorry when it was all over, and I told Miss Barry I didn't see how I was ever to return to common life again.
She said she thought if we went over to the restaurant across the street and had an ice cream it might help me.
That sounded so prosaic; but to my surprise I found it true.
The ice cream was delicious, Marilla, and it was so lovely and dissipated to be sitting there eating it at eleven o'clock at night. Diana said she believed she was born for city life.
Miss Barry asked me what my opinion was, but I said I would have to think it over very seriously before I could tell her what I really thought.
So I thought it over after I went to bed.
That is the best time to think things out.
And I came to the conclusion, Marilla, that I wasn't born for city life and that I was glad of it.
I told Miss Barry so at breakfast the next morning and she laughed.
Miss Barry generally laughed at anything I said, even when I said the most solemn things.
But Miss Barry was pleased, and she stood on her veranda and watched the buggy out of sight.
Then she went back into her big house with a sigh.
It seemed very lonely, lacking those fresh young lives.
Miss Barry was a rather selfish old lady, if the truth must be told, and had never cared much for anybody but herself.
She valued people only as they were of service to her or amused her.
It was sunset when they passed through White Sands and turned into the shore road.
Beyond, the Avonlea hills came out darkly against the saffron sky.
Behind them the moon was rising out of the sea that grew all radiant and transfigured in her light. Every little cove along the curving road was a marvel of dancing ripples.
I could kiss everything, even to the clock.
You don't mean to say you cooked that for me!" "Yes, I did," said Marilla.
I thought you'd be hungry after such a drive and need something real appetizing.
Hurry and take off your things, and we'll have supper as soon as Matthew comes in. I'm glad you've got back, I must say.
But the best of it all was the coming home." CHAPTER XXX.
The Queen's Class Is Organized MARILLA laid her knitting on her lap and leaned back in her chair.
Her love made her afraid of being unduly indulgent, indeed.
Certainly Anne herself had no idea how Marilla loved her.
She sometimes thought wistfully that Marilla was very hard to please and distinctly lacking in sympathy and understanding.
Oh, I'm so sorry I wasn't in. Why didn't you call me, Marilla? Diana and I were only over in the Haunted Wood.
It's lovely in the woods now.
All the little wood things--the ferns and the satin leaves and the crackerberries--have gone to sleep, just as if somebody had tucked them away until spring under a blanket of leaves.
I think it was a little gray fairy with a rainbow scarf that came tiptoeing along the last moonlight night and did it.
Diana wouldn't say much about that, though. Diana has never forgotten the scolding her mother gave her about imagining ghosts into the Haunted Wood.
It had a very bad effect on Diana's imagination.
Mrs. Lynde says Myrtle Bell is a blighted being.
I asked Ruby Gillis why Myrtle was blighted, and Ruby said she guessed it was because her young man had gone back on her.
Ruby Gillis thinks of nothing but young men, and the older she gets the worse she is.
Young men are all very well in their place, but it doesn't do to drag them into everything, does it?
Diana and I are thinking seriously of promising each other that we will never marry but be nice old maids and live together forever.
Diana hasn't quite made up her mind though, because she thinks perhaps it would be nobler to marry some wild, dashing, wicked young man and reform him.
Diana and I talk a great deal about serious subjects now, you know.
We feel that we are so much older than we used to be that it isn't becoming to talk of childish matters. It's such a solemn thing to be almost fourteen, Marilla.
Miss Stacy took all us girls who are in our teens down to the brook last Wednesday, and talked to us about it.
She said we couldn't be too careful what habits we formed and what ideals we acquired in our teens, because by the time we were twenty our characters would be developed and the foundation laid for our whole future life.
And she said if the foundation was shaky we could never build anything really worth while on it.
Diana and I talked the matter over coming home from school.
We felt extremely solemn, Marilla.
It's perfectly appalling to think of being twenty, Marilla.
It sounds so fearfully old and grown up.
But why was Miss Stacy here this afternoon?" "That is what I want to tell you, Anne, if you'll ever give me a chance to get a word in edgewise.
She was talking about you." "About me?
Then she flushed and exclaimed: "Oh, I know what she was saying.
I meant to tell you, Marilla, honestly I did, but I forgot.
Miss Stacy caught me reading Ben Hur in school yesterday afternoon when I should have been studying my Canadian history.
Jane Andrews lent it to me.
I just looked as if I were studying Canadian history, you know, while all the while I was reveling in Ben Hur.
I was so interested in it that I never noticed Miss Stacy coming down the aisle until all at once I just looked up and there she was looking down at me, so reproachful-like.
I can't tell you how ashamed I felt, Marilla, especially when I heard Josie Pye giggling.
Miss Stacy took Ben Hur away, but she never said a word then.
She kept me in at recess and talked to me.
She said I had done very wrong in two respects.
First, I was wasting the time I ought to have put on my studies; and secondly, I was deceiving my teacher in trying to make it appear I was reading a history when it was a storybook instead.
I had never realized until that moment, Marilla, that what I was doing was deceitful.
But Miss Stacy said she wouldn't require that, and she forgave me freely.
So I think it wasn't very kind of her to come up here to you about it after all." "Miss Stacy never mentioned such a thing to me, Anne, and its only your guilty conscience that's the matter with you.
You have no business to be taking storybooks to school.
You read too many novels anyhow.
When I was a girl I wasn't so much as allowed to look at a novel." "Oh, how can you call Ben Hur a novel when it's really such a religious book?" protested Anne.
Of course it's a little too exciting to be proper reading for Sunday, and I only read it on weekdays.
And I never read _any_ book now unless either Miss Stacy or Mrs. Allan thinks it is a proper book for a girl thirteen and three-quarters to read.
Miss Stacy made me promise that.
She found me reading a book one day called, The Lurid Mystery of the Haunted Hall.
It was one Ruby Gillis had lent me, and, oh, Marilla, it was so fascinating and creepy.
It just curdled the blood in my veins.
But Miss Stacy said it was a very silly, unwholesome book, and she asked me not to read any more of it or any like it.
I didn't mind promising not to read any more like it, but it was _agonizing_ to give back that book without knowing how it turned out.
But my love for Miss Stacy stood the test and I did.
It's really wonderful, Marilla, what you can do when you're truly anxious to please a certain person." "Well, I guess I'll light the lamp and get to work," said Marilla.
I won't say another word--not one.
Please tell me, Marilla." "Well, Miss Stacy wants to organize a class among her advanced students who mean to study for the entrance examination into Queen's.
She intends to give them extra lessons for an hour after school.
And she came to ask Matthew and me if we would like to have you join it.
What do you think about it yourself, Anne?
Would you like to go to Queen's and pass for a teacher?" "Oh, Marilla!
Anne straightened to her knees and clasped her hands. "It's been the dream of my life--that is, for the last six months, ever since Ruby and Jane began to talk of studying for the Entrance.
But I didn't say anything about it, because I supposed it would be perfectly useless.
I'd love to be a teacher.
But won't it be dreadfully expensive? Mr. Andrews says it cost him one hundred and fifty dollars to put Prissy through, and Prissy wasn't a dunce in geometry." "I guess you needn't worry about that part of it.
When Matthew and I took you to bring up we resolved we would do the best we could for you and give you a good education.
I believe in a girl being fitted to earn her own living whether she ever has to or not.
You'll always have a home at Green Gables as long as Matthew and I are here, but nobody knows what is going to happen in this uncertain world, and it's just as well to be prepared.
So you can join the Queen's class if you like, Anne." "Oh, Marilla, thank you.
Anne flung her arms about Marilla's waist and looked up earnestly into her face.
I'm extremely grateful to you and Matthew.
And I'll study as hard as I can and do my very best to be a credit to you.
I warn you not to expect much in geometry, but I think I can hold my own in anything else if I work hard." "I dare say you'll get along well enough.
Miss Stacy says you are bright and diligent.
Not for worlds would Marilla have told Anne just what Miss Stacy had said about her; that would have been to pamper vanity. "You needn't rush to any extreme of killing yourself over your books. There is no hurry.
You won't be ready to try the Entrance for a year and a half yet.
But it's well to begin in time and be thoroughly grounded, Miss Stacy says." "I shall take more interest than ever in my studies now," said Anne blissfully, "because I have a purpose in life.
Mr. Allan says everybody should have a purpose in life and pursue it faithfully.
Only he says we must first make sure that it is a worthy purpose.
I would call it a worthy purpose to want to be a teacher like Miss Stacy, wouldn't you, Marilla?
I think it's a very noble profession." The Queen's class was organized in due time.
Gilbert Blythe, Anne Shirley, Ruby Gillis, Jane Andrews, Josie Pye, Charlie Sloane, and Moody Spurgeon MacPherson joined it.
Diana Barry did not, as her parents did not intend to send her to Queen's.
This seemed nothing short of a calamity to Anne.
Never, since the night on which Minnie May had had the croup, had she and Diana been separated in anything.
A lump came into her throat, and she hastily retired behind the pages of her uplifted Latin grammar to hide the tears in her eyes.
I thought how splendid it would have been if Diana had only been going to study for the Entrance, too.
But we can't have things perfect in this imperfect world, as Mrs. Lynde says.
Mrs. Lynde isn't exactly a comforting person sometimes, but there's no doubt she says a great many very true things.
And I think the Queen's class is going to be extremely interesting.
Jane and Ruby are just going to study to be teachers.
That is the height of their ambition.
Ruby says she will only teach for two years after she gets through, and then she intends to be married.
I expect Jane speaks from mournful experience, for Mrs. Lynde says that her father is a perfect old crank, and meaner than second skimmings.
Josie Pye says she is just going to college for education's sake, because she won't have to earn her own living; she says of course it is different with orphans who are living on charity--_they_ have to hustle.
Moody Spurgeon is going to be a minister.
Mrs. Lynde says he couldn't be anything else with a name like that to live up to.
But perhaps he will be more intellectual-looking when he grows up.
Previously the rivalry had been rather one-sided, but there was no longer any doubt that Gilbert was as determined to be first in class as Anne was.
He was a foeman worthy of her steel.
He talked and jested with the other girls, exchanged books and puzzles with them, discussed lessons and plans, sometimes walked home with one or the other of them from prayer meeting or Debating Club.
But Anne Shirley he simply ignored, and Anne found out that it is not pleasant to be ignored.
It was in vain that she told herself with a toss of her head that she did not care.
Deep down in her wayward, feminine little heart she knew that she did care, and that if she had that chance of the Lake of Shining Waters again she would answer very differently.
All at once, as it seemed, and to her secret dismay, she found that the old resentment she had cherished against him was gone--gone just when she most needed its sustaining power.
It was in vain that she recalled every incident and emotion of that memorable occasion and tried to feel the old satisfying anger.
That day by the pond had witnessed its last spasmodic flicker.
Anne realized that she had forgiven and forgotten without knowing it.
But it was too late. And at least neither Gilbert nor anybody else, not even Diana, should ever suspect how sorry she was and how much she wished she hadn't been so proud and horrid!
The only poor comfort he had was that she snubbed Charlie Sloane, unmercifully, continually, and undeservedly. Otherwise the winter passed away in a round of pleasant duties and studies.
For Anne the days slipped by like golden beads on the necklace of the year.
Even Anne and Gilbert lagged and grew indifferent.
Have the best time you can in the out-of-door world and lay in a good stock of health and vitality and ambition to carry you through next year.
The Queen's class listened in breathless suspense for her answer. "Yes, I think I will," said Miss Stacy.
I thought of taking another school, but I have decided to come back to Avonlea.
To tell the truth, I've grown so interested in my pupils here that I found I couldn't leave them.
So I'll stay and see you through." "Hurrah!" said Moody Spurgeon.
Moody Spurgeon had never been so carried away by his feelings before, and he blushed uncomfortably every time he thought about it for a week. "Oh, I'm so glad," said Anne, with shining eyes.
Dear Stacy, it would be perfectly dreadful if you didn't come back.
I've studied as hard all the term as I possibly could and I've pored over that geometry until I know every proposition in the first book off by heart, even when the letters _are_ changed.
I just feel tired of everything sensible and I'm going to let my imagination run riot for the summer.
Oh, you needn't be alarmed, Marilla.
I'll only let it run riot within reasonable limits.
But I want to have a real good jolly time this summer, for maybe it's the last summer I'll be a little girl.
Mrs. Lynde says that if I keep stretching out next year as I've done this I'll have to put on longer skirts.
She says I'm all running to legs and eyes.
And when I put on longer skirts I shall feel that I have to live up to them and be very dignified.
It won't even do to believe in fairies then, I'm afraid; so I'm going to believe in them with all my whole heart this summer.
I think we're going to have a very gay vacation.
They have dinner there in the evening, you know.
Jane Andrews was over once last summer and she says it was a dazzling sight to see the electric lights and the flowers and all the lady guests in such beautiful dresses.
Jane says it was her first glimpse into high life and she'll never forget it to her dying day." Mrs. Lynde came up the next afternoon to find out why Marilla had not been at the Aid meeting on Thursday.
When Marilla was not at Aid meeting people knew there was something wrong at Green Gables. "Matthew had a bad spell with his heart Thursday," Marilla explained, "and I didn't feel like leaving him.
Oh, yes, he's all right again now, but he takes them spells oftener than he used to and I'm anxious about him.
The doctor says he must be careful to avoid excitement.
Come and lay off your things, Rachel.
Lawful heart, shall I ever forget that tantrum of hers!
When I went home that night I says to Thomas, says I, 'Mark my words, Thomas, Marilla Cuthbert 'll live to rue the step she's took.
But I was mistaken and I'm real glad of it.
I ain't one of those kind of people, Marilla, as can never be brought to own up that they've made a mistake.
No, that never was my way, thank goodness.
I did make a mistake in judging Anne, but it weren't no wonder, for an odder, unexpecteder witch of a child there never was in this world, that's what.
There was no ciphering her out by the rules that worked with other children.
It's nothing short of wonderful how she's improved these three years, but especially in looks.
She's a real pretty girl got to be, though I can't say I'm overly partial to that pale, big-eyed style myself.
I like more snap and color, like Diana Barry has or Ruby Gillis.
Ruby Gillis's looks are real showy.
Where the Brook and River Meet ANNE had her "good" summer and enjoyed it wholeheartedly.
She and Diana fairly lived outdoors, reveling in all the delights that Lover's Lane and the Dryad's Bubble and Willowmere and Victoria Island afforded. Marilla offered no objections to Anne's gypsyings.
It was: "Keep that redheaded girl of yours in the open air all summer and don't let her read books until she gets more spring into her step." This message frightened Marilla wholesomely.
She read Anne's death warrant by consumption in it unless it was scrupulously obeyed.
As a result, Anne had the golden summer of her life as far as freedom and frolic went.
Oh, you good old friends, I'm glad to see your honest faces once more--yes, even you, geometry.
I've had a perfectly beautiful summer, Marilla, and now I'm rejoicing as a strong man to run a race, as Mr. Allan said last Sunday.
Doesn't Mr. Allan preach magnificent sermons?
Mrs. Lynde says he is improving every day and the first thing we know some city church will gobble him up and then we'll be left and have to turn to and break in another green preacher.
But I don't see the use of meeting trouble halfway, do you, Marilla?
I think it would be better just to enjoy Mr. Allan while we have him.
If I were a man I think I'd be a minister.
They can have such an influence for good, if their theology is sound; and it must be thrilling to preach splendid sermons and stir your hearers' hearts.
Why can't women be ministers, Marilla?
I asked Mrs. Lynde that and she was shocked and said it would be a scandalous thing.
She said there might be female ministers in the States and she believed there was, but thank goodness we hadn't got to that stage in Canada yet and she hoped we never would.
But I don't see why.
I think women would make splendid ministers.
She does plenty of unofficial preaching as it is.
Nobody has much of a chance to go wrong in Avonlea with Rachel to oversee them." "Marilla," said Anne in a burst of confidence, "I want to tell you something and ask you what you think about it.
It has worried me terribly--on Sunday afternoons, that is, when I think specially about such matters.
I do really want to be good; and when I'm with you or Mrs. Allan or Miss Stacy I want it more than ever and I want to do just what would please you and what you would approve of.
But mostly when I'm with Mrs. Lynde I feel desperately wicked and as if I wanted to go and do the very thing she tells me I oughtn't to do.
I feel irresistibly tempted to do it.
Now, what do you think is the reason I feel like that?
Do you think it's because I'm really bad and unregenerate?" Marilla looked dubious for a moment.
Then she laughed. "If you are I guess I am too, Anne, for Rachel often has that very effect on me.
I sometimes think she'd have more of an influence for good, as you say yourself, if she didn't keep nagging people to do right.
There should have been a special commandment against nagging. But there, I shouldn't talk so.
Rachel is a good Christian woman and she means well.
There isn't a kinder soul in Avonlea and she never shirks her share of work." "I'm very glad you feel the same," said Anne decidedly.
I shan't worry so much over that after this.
But I dare say there'll be other things to worry me.
They keep coming up new all the time--things to perplex you, you know.
You settle one question and there's another right after.
There are so many things to be thought over and decided when you're beginning to grow up.
It keeps me busy all the time thinking them over and deciding what is right.
It's a serious thing to grow up, isn't it, Marilla?
But when I have such good friends as you and Matthew and Mrs. Allan and Miss Stacy I ought to grow up successfully, and I'm sure it will be my own fault if I don't.
I feel it's a great responsibility because I have only the one chance.
If I don't grow up right I can't go back and begin over again.
I've grown two inches this summer, Marilla.
Mr. Gillis measured me at Ruby's party.
I'm so glad you made my new dresses longer.
That dark-green one is so pretty and it was sweet of you to put on the flounce.
Of course I know it wasn't really necessary, but flounces are so stylish this fall and Josie Pye has flounces on all her dresses.
I know I'll be able to study better because of mine.
I shall have such a comfortable feeling deep down in my mind about that flounce." "It's worth something to have that," admitted Marilla. Miss Stacy came back to Avonlea school and found all her pupils eager for work once more.
Suppose they did not pass!
That thought was doomed to haunt Anne through the waking hours of that winter, Sunday afternoons inclusive, to the almost entire exclusion of moral and theological problems.
Schoolwork was as interesting, class rivalry as absorbing, as of yore.
A sigh followed on the words.
Marilla felt a queer regret over Anne's inches. The child she had learned to love had vanished somehow and here was this tall, serious-eyed girl of fifteen, with the thoughtful brows and the proudly poised little head, in her place.
Marilla loved the girl as much as she had loved the child, but she was conscious of a queer sorrowful sense of loss.
And that night, when Anne had gone to prayer meeting with Diana, Marilla sat alone in the wintry twilight and indulged in the weakness of a cry.
Matthew, coming in with a lantern, caught her at it and gazed at her in such consternation that Marilla had to laugh through her tears. "I was thinking about Anne," she explained.
She's got to be such a big girl--and she'll probably be away from us next winter.
Perhaps she thought all the more and dreamed as much as ever, but she certainly talked less.
Marilla noticed and commented on this also. "You don't chatter half as much as you used to, Anne, nor use half as many big words.
It's nicer to think dear, pretty thoughts and keep them in one's heart, like treasures.
I don't like to have them laughed at or wondered over.
And somehow I don't want to use big words any more.
It's almost a pity, isn't it, now that I'm really growing big enough to say them if I did want to.
It's fun to be almost grown up in some ways, but it's not the kind of fun I expected, Marilla. There's so much to learn and do and think that there isn't time for big words.
Besides, Miss Stacy says the short ones are much stronger and better.
She makes us write all our essays as simply as possible.
It was hard at first.
I was so used to crowding in all the fine big words I could think of--and I thought of any number of them.
But I've got used to it now and I see it's so much better." "What has become of your story club?
I haven't heard you speak of it for a long time." "The story club isn't in existence any longer.
We hadn't time for it--and anyhow I think we had got tired of it.
It was silly to be writing about love and murder and elopements and mysteries.
I never thought my compositions had so many faults until I began to look for them myself.
I felt so ashamed I wanted to give up altogether, but Miss Stacy said I could learn to write well if I only trained myself to be my own severest critic.
And so I am trying to." "You've only two more months before the Entrance," said Marilla.
Do you think you'll be able to get through?" Anne shivered. "I don't know.
Sometimes I think I'll be all right--and then I get horribly afraid.
We've studied hard and Miss Stacy has drilled us thoroughly, but we mayn't get through for all that.
We've each got a stumbling block.
Mine is geometry of course, and Jane's is Latin, and Ruby and Charlie's is algebra, and Josie's is arithmetic.
Moody Spurgeon says he feels it in his bones that he is going to fail in English history.
Miss Stacy is going to give us examinations in June just as hard as we'll have at the Entrance and mark us just as strictly, so we'll have some idea.
I wish it was all over, Marilla.
It would be such a disgrace to fail, especially if Gil--if the others passed.
And I get so nervous in an examination that I'm likely to make a mess of it.
I wish I had nerves like Jane Andrews.
The Pass List Is Out WITH the end of June came the close of the term and the close of Miss Stacy's rule in Avonlea school.
Anne and Diana walked home that evening feeling very sober indeed.
Red eyes and damp handkerchiefs bore convincing testimony to the fact that Miss Stacy's farewell words must have been quite as touching as Mr. Phillips's had been under similar circumstances three years before.
You'll be back again next winter, but I suppose I've left the dear old school forever--if I have good luck, that is." "It won't be a bit the same.
Miss Stacy won't be there, nor you nor Jane nor Ruby probably.
I shall have to sit all alone, for I couldn't bear to have another deskmate after you.
Oh, we have had jolly times, haven't we, Anne?
It's dreadful to think they're all over." Two big tears rolled down by Diana's nose. "If you would stop crying I could," said Anne imploringly.
Just as soon as I put away my hanky I see you brimming up and that starts me off again.
As Mrs. Lynde says, 'If you can't be cheerful, be as cheerful as you can.
After all, I dare say I'll be back next year.
This is one of the times I _know_ I'm not going to pass.
They're getting alarmingly frequent." "Why, you came out splendidly in the exams Miss Stacy gave." "Yes, but those exams didn't make me nervous.
When I think of the real thing you can't imagine what a horrid cold fluttery feeling comes round my heart.
And then my number is thirteen and Josie Pye says it's so unlucky.
I am _not_ superstitious and I know it can make no difference. But still I wish it wasn't thirteen." "I do wish I was going in with you," said Diana.
Wouldn't we have a perfectly elegant time?
But I suppose you'll have to cram in the evenings." "No; Miss Stacy has made us promise not to open a book at all.
She says it would only tire and confuse us and we are to go out walking and not think about the exams at all and go to bed early.
Last night I was horribly lonesome all alone in my room and wished so much you were with me.
Ruby asked me to feel her hands and they were as cold as ice.
Josie said I looked as if I hadn't slept a wink and she didn't believe I was strong enough to stand the grind of the teacher's course even if I did get through.
There are times and seasons even yet when I don't feel that I've made any great headway in learning to like Josie Pye! "When we reached the Academy there were scores of students there from all over the Island.
The first person we saw was Moody Spurgeon sitting on the steps and muttering away to himself.
Jane and I sat together and Jane was so composed that I envied her.
No need of the multiplication table for good, steady, sensible Jane!
I wondered if I looked as I felt and if they could hear my heart thumping clear across the room.
Then a man came in and began distributing the English examination sheets.
My hands grew cold then and my head fairly whirled around as I picked it up.
The history was a pretty hard paper and I got dreadfully mixed up in the dates.
Still, I think I did fairly well today.
But oh, Diana, tomorrow the geometry exam comes off and when I think of it it takes every bit of determination I possess to keep from opening my Euclid.
If I thought the multiplication table would help me any I would recite it from now till tomorrow morning. "I went down to see the other girls this evening.
On my way I met Moody Spurgeon wandering distractedly around.
When she recovered we went uptown and had an ice cream.
How we wished you had been with us. "Oh, Diana, if only the geometry examination were over!
But there, as Mrs. Lynde would say, the sun will go on rising and setting whether I fail in geometry or not.
That is true but not especially comforting.
Diana was over at Green Gables when she arrived and they met as if they had been parted for years. "You old darling, it's perfectly splendid to see you back again.
It seems like an age since you went to town and oh, Anne, how did you get along?" "Pretty well, I think, in everything but the geometry.
I don't know whether I passed in it or not and I have a creepy, crawly presentiment that I didn't.
Oh, how good it is to be back!
Green Gables is the dearest, loveliest spot in the world." "How did the others do?" "The girls say they know they didn't pass, but I think they did pretty well.
Josie says the geometry was so easy a child of ten could do it! Moody Spurgeon still thinks he failed in history and Charlie says he failed in algebra.
But we don't really know anything about it and won't until the pass list is out.
That won't be for a fortnight.
Fancy living a fortnight in such suspense!
I wish I could go to sleep and never wake up until it is over." Diana knew it would be useless to ask how Gilbert Blythe had fared, so she merely said: "Oh, you'll pass all right.
She wanted to "pass high" for the sake of Matthew and Marilla--especially Matthew. Matthew had declared to her his conviction that she "would beat the whole Island.
That, Anne felt, was something it would be foolish to hope for even in the wildest dreams.
But she did hope fervently that she would be among the first ten at least, so that she might see Matthew's kindly brown eyes gleam with pride in her achievement.
Charlie and Gilbert were not above doing this too, but Moody Spurgeon stayed resolutely away. "I haven't got the grit to go there and look at a paper in cold blood," he told Anne.
The pass list was out!
Her head whirled and her heart beat until it hurt her.
She could not move a step.
Oh, I'm so proud!" Diana flung the paper on the table and herself on Anne's bed, utterly breathless and incapable of further speech.
Anne lighted the lamp, oversetting the match safe and using up half a dozen matches before her shaking hands could accomplish the task.
Then she snatched up the paper. Yes, she had passed--there was her name at the very top of a list of two hundred!
That moment was worth living for. "You did just splendidly, Anne," puffed Diana, recovering sufficiently to sit up and speak, for Anne, starry eyed and rapt, had not uttered a word.
You've all passed, every one of you, Moody Spurgeon and all, although he's conditioned in history.
Jane and Ruby did pretty well--they're halfway up--and so did Charlie.
Josie just scraped through with three marks to spare, but you'll see she'll put on as many airs as if she'd led.
Won't Miss Stacy be delighted?
Oh, Anne, what does it feel like to see your name at the head of a pass list like that?
If it were me I know I'd go crazy with joy.
I am pretty near crazy as it is, but you're as calm and cool as a spring evening." "I'm just dazzled inside," said Anne.
I want to say a hundred things, and I can't find words to say them in. I never dreamed of this--yes, I did too, just once!
I let myself think _once_, 'What if I should come out first?' quakingly, you know, for it seemed so vain and presumptuous to think I could lead the Island.
Excuse me a minute, Diana.
I must run right out to the field to tell Matthew.
I'm not vain, but I'm thankful." "Well now, I always said it," said Matthew, gazing at the pass list delightedly.
I knew you could beat them all easy." "You've done pretty well, I must say, Anne," said Marilla, trying to hide her extreme pride in Anne from Mrs. Rachel's critical eye.
But that good soul said heartily: "I just guess she has done well, and far be it from me to be backward in saying it.
There was in it thankfulness for the past and reverent petition for the future; and when she slept on her white pillow her dreams were as fair and bright and beautiful as maidenhood might desire. CHAPTER XXXIII.
The Hotel Concert PUT on your white organdy, by all means, Anne," advised Diana decidedly. They were together in the east gable chamber; outside it was only twilight--a lovely yellowish-green twilight with a clear-blue cloudless sky.
A big round moon, slowly deepening from her pallid luster into burnished silver, hung over the Haunted Wood; the air was full of sweet summer sounds--sleepy birds twittering, freakish breezes, faraway voices and laughter.
The floor was covered with a pretty matting, and the curtains that softened the high window and fluttered in the vagrant breezes were of pale-green art muslin.
The walls, hung not with gold and silver brocade tapestry, but with a dainty apple-blossom paper, were adorned with a few good pictures given Anne by Mrs. Allan.
Miss Stacy's photograph occupied the place of honor, and Anne made a sentimental point of keeping fresh flowers on the bracket under it.
Tonight a spike of white lilies faintly perfumed the room like the dream of a fragrance.
The guests had got it up in aid of the Charlottetown hospital, and had hunted out all the available amateur talent in the surrounding districts to help it along.
It's so soft and frilly and clinging.
The muslin is stiff, and makes you look too dressed up.
But the organdy seems as if it grew on you." Anne sighed and yielded.
Diana was beginning to have a reputation for notable taste in dressing, and her advice on such subjects was much sought after.
I'm going to braid your hair in two thick braids, and tie them halfway up with big white bows--no, don't pull out a single curl over your forehead--just have the soft part.
There is no way you do your hair suits you so well, Anne, and Mrs. Allan says you look like a Madonna when you part it so.
I shall fasten this little white house rose just behind your ear.
There was just one on my bush, and I saved it for you." "Shall I put my pearl beads on?" asked Anne.
You hold your head with such an air.
I suppose it's your figure.
I am just a dumpling.
I've always been afraid of it, and now I know it is so.
Well, I suppose I shall just have to resign myself to it." "But you have such dimples," said Anne, smiling affectionately into the pretty, vivacious face so near her own.
Lovely dimples, like little dents in cream.
I have given up all hope of dimples.
My dimple-dream will never come true; but so many of my dreams have that I mustn't complain.
Am I all ready now?" "All ready," assured Diana, as Marilla appeared in the doorway, a gaunt figure with grayer hair than of yore and no fewer angles, but with a much softer face.
Come right in and look at our elocutionist, Marilla. Doesn't she look lovely?" Marilla emitted a sound between a sniff and a grunt. "She looks neat and proper.
I like that way of fixing her hair.
But I expect she'll ruin that dress driving over there in the dust and dew with it, and it looks most too thin for these damp nights.
Organdy's the most unserviceable stuff in the world anyhow, and I told Matthew so when he got it.
Just let them tell him a thing is pretty and fashionable, and Matthew plunks his money down for it.
It's a perfect night, and there won't be any dew.
Look at the moonlight." "I'm so glad my window looks east into the sun rising," said Anne, going over to Diana.
It's so splendid to see the morning coming up over those long hills and glowing through those sharp fir tops.
It's new every morning, and I feel as if I washed my very soul in that bath of earliest sunshine.
Oh, Diana, I love this little room so dearly.
I don't know how I'll get along without it when I go to town next month." "Don't speak of your going away tonight," begged Diana.
I don't want to think of it, it makes me so miserable, and I do want to have a good time this evening.
What are you going to recite, Anne?
And are you nervous?" "Not a bit.
I've recited so often in public I don't mind at all now. I've decided to give 'The Maiden's Vow.
There are Billy and Jane now--I hear the wheels.
Come on." Billy Andrews insisted that Anne should ride on the front seat with him, so she unwillingly climbed up.
She would have much preferred to sit back with the girls, where she could have laughed and chattered to her heart's content.
There was not much of either laughter or chatter in Billy.
He was a big, fat, stolid youth of twenty, with a round, expressionless face, and a painful lack of conversational gifts.
It was a night for enjoyment.
The road was full of buggies, all bound for the hotel, and laughter, silver clear, echoed and reechoed along it.
When they reached the hotel it was a blaze of light from top to bottom.
Her dress, which, in the east gable, had seemed so dainty and pretty, now seemed simple and plain--too simple and plain, she thought, among all the silks and laces that glistened and rustled around her.
What were her pearl beads compared to the diamonds of the big, handsome lady near her? And how poor her one wee white rose must look beside all the hothouse flowers the others wore!
Anne laid her hat and jacket away, and shrank miserably into a corner.
She wished herself back in the white room at Green Gables. It was still worse on the platform of the big concert hall of the hotel, where she presently found herself.
The electric lights dazzled her eyes, the perfume and hum bewildered her.
She wished she were sitting down in the audience with Diana and Jane, who seemed to be having a splendid time away at the back.
She was wedged in between a stout lady in pink silk and a tall, scornful-looking girl in a white-lace dress.
Anne believed that she would hate that white-lace girl to the end of life. Unfortunately for Anne, a professional elocutionist was staying at the hotel and had consented to recite.
She was a lithe, dark-eyed woman in a wonderful gown of shimmering gray stuff like woven moonbeams, with gems on her neck and in her dark hair.
She had a marvelously flexible voice and wonderful power of expression; the audience went wild over her selection.
Anne, forgetting all about herself and her troubles for the time, listened with rapt and shining eyes; but when the recitation ended she suddenly put her hands over her face.
She could never get up and recite after that--never.
Had she ever thought she could recite?
Oh, if she were only back at Green Gables! At this unpropitious moment her name was called.
Very different this from the plain benches at the Debating Club, filled with the homely, sympathetic faces of friends and neighbors.
These people, she thought, would be merciless critics.
Perhaps, like the white-lace girl, they anticipated amusement from her "rustic" efforts.
She felt hopelessly, helplessly ashamed and miserable.
In reality it was nothing of the kind.
Gilbert was merely smiling with appreciation of the whole affair in general and of the effect produced by Anne's slender white form and spiritual face against a background of palms in particular.
Josie Pye, whom he had driven over, sat beside him, and her face certainly was both triumphant and taunting.
But Anne did not see Josie, and would not have cared if she had.
She drew a long breath and flung her head up proudly, courage and determination tingling over her like an electric shock.
She _would not_ fail before Gilbert Blythe--he should never be able to laugh at her, never, never!
Her fright and nervousness vanished; and she began her recitation, her clear, sweet voice reaching to the farthest corner of the room without a tremor or a break.
Self-possession was fully restored to her, and in the reaction from that horrible moment of powerlessness she recited as she had never done before.
When she finished there were bursts of honest applause.
Anne, stepping back to her seat, blushing with shyness and delight, found her hand vigorously clasped and shaken by the stout lady in pink silk. "My dear, you did splendidly," she puffed.
I've been crying like a baby, actually I have.
There, they're encoring you--they're bound to have you back!" "Oh, I can't go," said Anne confusedly.
But yet--I must, or Matthew will be disappointed.
He said they would encore me." "Then don't disappoint Matthew," said the pink lady, laughing. Smiling, blushing, limpid eyed, Anne tripped back and gave a quaint, funny little selection that captivated her audience still further.
The professional elocutionist, Mrs. Evans, came and chatted with her, telling her that she had a charming voice and "interpreted" her selections beautifully. Even the white-lace girl paid her a languid little compliment.
He was in waiting for them, with the team, however, when it was all over, and the three girls came merrily out into the calm, white moonshine radiance.
I just wish I was a rich American and could spend my summer at a hotel and wear jewels and low-necked dresses and have ice cream and chicken salad every blessed day.
I'm sure it would be ever so much more fun than teaching school.
Anne, your recitation was simply great, although I thought at first you were never going to begin.
I think it was better than Mrs. Evans's." "Oh, no, don't say things like that, Jane," said Anne quickly, "because it sounds silly.
It couldn't be better than Mrs. Evans's, you know, for she is a professional, and I'm only a schoolgirl, with a little knack of reciting.
I'm quite satisfied if the people just liked mine pretty well." "I've a compliment for you, Anne," said Diana.
At least I think it must be a compliment because of the tone he said it in. Part of it was anyhow.
There was an American sitting behind Jane and me--such a romantic-looking man, with coal-black hair and eyes.
Josie Pye says he is a distinguished artist, and that her mother's cousin in Boston is married to a man that used to go to school with him.
Well, we heard him say--didn't we, Jane?--'Who is that girl on the platform with the splendid Titian hair?
She has a face I should like to paint.
But what does Titian hair mean?" "Being interpreted it means plain red, I guess," laughed Anne.
Titian was a very famous artist who liked to paint red-haired women." "_Did_ you see all the diamonds those ladies wore?" sighed Jane.
Wouldn't you just love to be rich, girls?" "We _are_ rich," said Anne staunchly.
Why, we have sixteen years to our credit, and we're happy as queens, and we've all got imaginations, more or less.
Look at that sea, girls--all silver and shadow and vision of things not seen.
We couldn't enjoy its loveliness any more if we had millions of dollars and ropes of diamonds.
You wouldn't change into any of those women if you could.
Would you want to be that white-lace girl and wear a sour look all your life, as if you'd been born turning up your nose at the world?
Or the pink lady, kind and nice as she is, so stout and short that you'd really no figure at all?
Or even Mrs. Evans, with that sad, sad look in her eyes?
She must have been dreadfully unhappy sometime to have such a look.
You _know_ you wouldn't, Jane Andrews!" "I _don't_ know--exactly," said Jane unconvinced.
I think diamonds would comfort a person for a good deal." "Well, I don't want to be anyone but myself, even if I go uncomforted by diamonds all my life," declared Anne.
I'm quite content to be Anne of Green Gables, with my string of pearl beads.
I know Matthew gave me as much love with them as ever went with Madame the Pink Lady's jewels." CHAPTER XXXIV.
A Queen's Girl THE next three weeks were busy ones at Green Gables, for Anne was getting ready to go to Queen's, and there was much sewing to be done, and many things to be talked over and arranged.
Anne's outfit was ample and pretty, for Matthew saw to that, and Marilla for once made no objections whatever to anything he purchased or suggested.
More--one evening she went up to the east gable with her arms full of a delicate pale green material. "Anne, here's something for a nice light dress for you.
I hear that Jane and Ruby and Josie have got 'evening dresses,' as they call them, and I don't mean you shall be behind them.
I got Mrs. Allan to help me pick it in town last week, and we'll get Emily Gillis to make it for you.
Emily has got taste, and her fits aren't to be equaled." "Oh, Marilla, it's just lovely," said Anne.
I don't believe you ought to be so kind to me--it's making it harder every day for me to go away." The green dress was made up with as many tucks and frills and shirrings as Emily's taste permitted.
Anne put it on one evening for Matthew's and Marilla's benefit, and recited "The Maiden's Vow" for them in the kitchen.
Something in the memory brought tears to Marilla's own eyes. "I declare, my recitation has made you cry, Marilla," said Anne gaily stooping over Marilla's chair to drop a butterfly kiss on that lady's cheek.
Now, I call that a positive triumph." "No, I wasn't crying over your piece," said Marilla, who would have scorned to be betrayed into such weakness by any poetry stuff.
I just couldn't help thinking of the little girl you used to be, Anne.
And I was wishing you could have stayed a little girl, even with all your queer ways.
You've grown up now and you're going away; and you look so tall and stylish and so--so--different altogether in that dress--as if you didn't belong in Avonlea at all--and I just got lonesome thinking it all over." "Marilla!
Anne sat down on Marilla's gingham lap, took Marilla's lined face between her hands, and looked gravely and tenderly into Marilla's eyes.
I'm not a bit changed--not really.
I'm only just pruned down and branched out.
The real _me_--back here--is just the same.
She's been a blessing to us, and there never was a luckier mistake than what Mrs. Spencer made--if it _was_ luck.
I don't believe it was any such thing.
It was Providence, because the Almighty saw we needed her, I reckon." The day finally came when Anne must go to town.
She and Matthew drove in one fine September morning, after a tearful parting with Diana and an untearful practical one--on Marilla's side at least--with Marilla.
That first day passed pleasantly enough in a whirl of excitement, meeting all the new students, learning to know the professors by sight and being assorted and organized into classes.
Anne intended taking up the Second Year work being advised to do so by Miss Stacy; Gilbert Blythe elected to do the same.
This meant getting a First Class teacher's license in one year instead of two, if they were successful; but it also meant much more and harder work.
I suppose he's making up his mind, here and now, to win the medal.
What a splendid chin he has!
I never noticed it before. I do wish Jane and Ruby had gone in for First Class, too.
I suppose I won't feel so much like a cat in a strange garret when I get acquainted, though.
I wonder which of the girls here are going to be my friends. It's really an interesting speculation.
Of course I promised Diana that no Queen's girl, no matter how much I liked her, should ever be as dear to me as she is; but I've lots of second-best affections to bestow.
I like the look of that girl with the brown eyes and the crimson waist. She looks vivid and red-rosy; there's that pale, fair one gazing out of the window.
She has lovely hair, and looks as if she knew a thing or two about dreams.
I'd like to know them both--know them well--well enough to walk with my arm about their waists, and call them nicknames.
But just now I don't know them and they don't know me, and probably don't want to know me particularly.
Oh, it's lonesome!" It was lonesomer still when Anne found herself alone in her hall bedroom that night at twilight.
She was not to board with the other girls, who all had relatives in town to take pity on them.
Anne will not meet with any objectionable persons under her roof.
Here there was nothing of this; Anne knew that outside of her window was a hard street, with a network of telephone wires shutting out the sky, the tramp of alien feet, and a thousand lights gleaming on stranger faces.
She knew that she was going to cry, and fought against it. "I _won't_ cry.
It's silly--and weak--there's the third tear splashing down by my nose.
I must think of something funny to stop them.
But there's nothing funny except what is connected with Avonlea, and that only makes things worse--four--five--I'm going home next Friday, but that seems a hundred years away.
Oh, Matthew is nearly home by now--and Marilla is at the gate, looking down the lane for him--six--seven--eight--oh, there's no use in counting them!
They're coming in a flood presently.
I can't cheer up--I don't _want_ to cheer up. It's nicer to be miserable!" The flood of tears would have come, no doubt, had not Josie Pye appeared at that moment.
In the joy of seeing a familiar face Anne forgot that there had never been much love lost between her and Josie.
As a part of Avonlea life even a Pye was welcome. "I'm so glad you came up," Anne said sincerely. "You've been crying," remarked Josie, with aggravating pity.
I suppose you're homesick--some people have so little self-control in that respect.
I've no intention of being homesick, I can tell you.
Town's too jolly after that poky old Avonlea.
I wonder how I ever existed there so long.
You shouldn't cry, Anne; it isn't becoming, for your nose and eyes get red, and then you seem _all_ red.
I'd a perfectly scrumptious time in the Academy today.
Our French professor is simply a duck.
His moustache would give you kerwollowps of the heart.
Have you anything eatable around, Anne?
Ah, I guessed likely Marilla 'd load you up with cake.
That's why I called round. Otherwise I'd have gone to the park to hear the band play with Frank Stockley.
He boards same place as I do, and he's a sport.
He noticed you in class today, and asked me who the red-headed girl was.
As Josie was not "speaking" to Jane just then she had to subside into comparative harmlessness. "Well," said Jane with a sigh, "I feel as if I'd lived many moons since the morning.
I ought to be home studying my Virgil--that horrid old professor gave us twenty lines to start in on tomorrow.
But I simply couldn't settle down to study tonight.
Anne, methinks I see the traces of tears.
If you've been crying _do_ own up.
It will restore my self-respect, for I was shedding tears freely before Ruby came along.
I don't mind being a goose so much if somebody else is goosey, too.
Cake? You'll give me a teeny piece, won't you?
Frank Stockley told me--his uncle is one of the board of governors, you know.
It will be announced in the Academy tomorrow." An Avery scholarship!
Anne felt her heart beat more quickly, and the horizons of her ambition shifted and broadened as if by magic.
Before Josie had told the news Anne's highest pinnacle of aspiration had been a teacher's provincial license, First Class, at the end of the year, and perhaps the medal!
But now in one moment Anne saw herself winning the Avery scholarship, taking an Arts course at Redmond College, and graduating in a gown and mortar board, before the echo of Josie's words had died away.
No wonder that Anne went to bed that night with tingling cheeks! "I'll win that scholarship if hard work can do it," she resolved. "Wouldn't Matthew be proud if I got to be a B.A.?
Oh, it's delightful to have ambitions.
I'm so glad I have such a lot.
And there never seems to be any end to them--that's the best of it.
Just as soon as you attain to one ambition you see another one glittering higher up still.
It does make life so interesting." CHAPTER XXXV.
The Winter at Queen's ANNE'S homesickness wore off, greatly helped in the wearing by her weekend visits home.
As long as the open weather lasted the Avonlea students went out to Carmody on the new branch railway every Friday night.
She had large, bright-blue eyes, a brilliant complexion, and a plump showy figure.
She laughed a great deal, was cheerful and good-tempered, and enjoyed the pleasant things of life frankly. "But I shouldn't think she was the sort of girl Gilbert would like," whispered Jane to Anne.
Anne did not think so either, but she would not have said so for the Avery scholarship.
She could not help thinking, too, that it would be very pleasant to have such a friend as Gilbert to jest and chatter with and exchange ideas about books and studies and ambitions.
Gilbert had ambitions, she knew, and Ruby Gillis did not seem the sort of person with whom such could be profitably discussed. There was no silly sentiment in Anne's ideas concerning Gilbert.
Boys were to her, when she thought about them at all, merely possible good comrades.
If she and Gilbert had been friends she would not have cared how many other friends he had nor with whom he walked.
Not that Anne could have put her feelings on the matter into just such clear definition.
Gilbert was a clever young fellow, with his own thoughts about things and a determination to get the best out of life and put the best into it.
By this time all the Queen's scholars had gravitated into their own places in the ranks and the various classes had assumed distinct and settled shadings of individuality.
Certain facts had become generally accepted.
It was admitted that the medal contestants had practically narrowed down to three--Gilbert Blythe, Anne Shirley, and Lewis Wilson; the Avery scholarship was more doubtful, any one of a certain six being a possible winner.
Ethel Marr was admitted by all competent judges to have the most stylish modes of hair-dressing, and Jane Andrews--plain, plodding, conscientious Jane--carried off the honors in the domestic science course.
Even Josie Pye attained a certain preeminence as the sharpest-tongued young lady in attendance at Queen's.
So it may be fairly stated that Miss Stacy's old pupils held their own in the wider arena of the academical course. Anne worked hard and steadily.
Her rivalry with Gilbert was as intense as it had ever been in Avonlea school, although it was not known in the class at large, but somehow the bitterness had gone out of it.
Anne no longer wished to win for the sake of defeating Gilbert; rather, for the proud consciousness of a well-won victory over a worthy foeman.
The latter was, as she admitted, growing old, but her black eyes were not dim nor the vigor of her tongue in the least abated.
But she never sharpened the latter on Anne, who continued to be a prime favorite with the critical old lady. "That Anne-girl improves all the time," she said.
I get tired of other girls--there is such a provoking and eternal sameness about them.
Anne has as many shades as a rainbow and every shade is the prettiest while it lasts.
I don't know that she is as amusing as she was when she was a child, but she makes me love her and I like people who make me love them.
And here we are, with the exams looming up next week.
To them the coming examinations were constantly very important indeed--far more important than chestnut buds or Maytime hazes.
It's no use to say don't worry.
Worrying helps you some--it seems as if you were doing something when you're worrying.
It would be dreadful if I failed to get my license after going to Queen's all winter and spending so much money." "_I_ don't care," said Josie Pye.
If I don't pass this year I'm coming back next.
My father can afford to send me.
I've done my best and I begin to understand what is meant by the 'joy of the strife.
Next to trying and winning, the best thing is trying and failing.
Girls, don't talk about exams!
All the Beyond was hers with its possibilities lurking rosily in the oncoming years--each year a rose of promise to be woven into an immortal chaplet. CHAPTER XXXVI.
The Glory and the Dream ON the morning when the final results of all the examinations were to be posted on the bulletin board at Queen's, Anne and Jane walked down the street together.
Everybody says Emily Clay will win it.
And I'm not going to march up to that bulletin board and look at it before everybody.
I haven't the moral courage.
I'm going straight to the girls' dressing room.
You must read the announcements and then come and tell me, Jane.
And I implore you in the name of our old friendship to do it as quickly as possible.
If I have failed just say so, without trying to break it gently; and whatever you do _don't_ sympathize with me.
Promise me this, Jane." Jane promised solemnly; but, as it happened, there was no necessity for such a promise.
Oh, Anne I'm so proud!
Isn't it splendid?" And then the girls were around them and Anne was the center of a laughing, congratulating group.
Her shoulders were thumped and her hands shaken vigorously.
She was pushed and pulled and hugged and among it all she managed to whisper to Jane: "Oh, won't Matthew and Marilla be pleased!
I must write the news home right away." Commencement was the next important happening.
The exercises were held in the big assembly hall of the Academy.
You do like to rub things in, Matthew Cuthbert." Miss Barry, who was sitting behind them, leaned forward and poked Marilla in the back with her parasol. "Aren't you proud of that Anne-girl?
I am," she said. Anne went home to Avonlea with Matthew and Marilla that evening.
She had not been home since April and she felt that she could not wait another day.
The apple blossoms were out and the world was fresh and young. Diana was at Green Gables to meet her.
In her own white room, where Marilla had set a flowering house rose on the window sill, Anne looked about her and drew a long breath of happiness. "Oh, Diana, it's so good to be back again.
It's so good to see those pointed firs coming out against the pink sky--and that white orchard and the old Snow Queen.
Isn't the breath of the mint delicious?
And that tea rose--why, it's a song and a hope and a prayer all in one.
And it's _good_ to see you again, Diana!" "I thought you liked that Stella Maynard better than me," said Diana reproachfully.
Josie Pye told me you did.
Josie said you were _infatuated_ with her." Anne laughed and pelted Diana with the faded "June lilies" of her bouquet. "Stella Maynard is the dearest girl in the world except one and you are that one, Diana," she said.
I love you more than ever--and I've so many things to tell you.
But just now I feel as if it were joy enough to sit here and look at you.
I'm tired, I think--tired of being studious and ambitious.
I mean to spend at least two hours tomorrow lying out in the orchard grass, thinking of absolutely nothing." "You've done splendidly, Anne.
I suppose you won't be teaching now that you've won the Avery?" "No. I'm going to Redmond in September.
I'll have a brand new stock of ambition laid in by that time after three glorious, golden months of vacation.
Jane and Ruby are going to teach. Isn't it splendid to think we all got through even to Moody Spurgeon and Josie Pye?" "The Newbridge trustees have offered Jane their school already," said Diana.
Gilbert Blythe is going to teach, too.
His father can't afford to send him to college next year, after all, so he means to earn his own way through.
I expect he'll get the school here if Miss Ames decides to leave." Anne felt a queer little sensation of dismayed surprise.
She had not known this; she had expected that Gilbert would be going to Redmond also.
What would she do without their inspiring rivalry?
Would not work, even at a coeducational college with a real degree in prospect, be rather flat without her friend the enemy? The next morning at breakfast it suddenly struck Anne that Matthew was not looking well.
Surely he was much grayer than he had been a year before. "Marilla," she said hesitatingly when he had gone out, "is Matthew quite well?" "No, he isn't," said Marilla in a troubled tone.
Maybe he will now you're home.
You always cheer him up." Anne leaned across the table and took Marilla's face in her hands. "You are not looking as well yourself as I'd like to see you, Marilla. You look tired.
I'm afraid you've been working too hard.
You must take a rest, now that I'm home.
I've got a pain so often now--behind my eyes.
Doctor Spencer's been fussing with glasses, but they don't do me any good.
There is a distinguished oculist coming to the Island the last of June and the doctor says I must see him.
I guess I'll have to. I can't read or sew with any comfort now.
Well, Anne, you've done real well at Queen's I must say.
I don't believe a word of it.
Speaking of Rachel reminds me--did you hear anything about the Abbey Bank lately, Anne?" "I heard it was shaky," answered Anne.
Why?" "That is what Rachel said.
She was up here one day last week and said there was some talk about it.
All we have saved is in that bank--every penny.
I wanted Matthew to put it in the Savings Bank in the first place, but old Mr. Abbey was a great friend of father's and he'd always banked with him.
Matthew said any bank with him at the head of it was good enough for anybody." "I think he has only been its nominal head for many years," said Anne.
He is a very old man; his nephews are really at the head of the institution." "Well, when Rachel told us that, I wanted Matthew to draw our money right out and he said he'd think of it.
But Mr. Russell told him yesterday that the bank was all right." Anne had her good day in the companionship of the outdoor world.
She never forgot that day; it was so bright and golden and fair, so free from shadow and so lavish of blossom.
The woods were all gloried through with sunset and the warm splendor of it streamed down through the hill gaps in the west.
It's only that I'm getting old, Anne, and keep forgetting it.
I could find it in my heart to wish I had been, just for that." "Well now, I'd rather have you than a dozen boys, Anne," said Matthew patting her hand.
Just mind you that--rather than a dozen boys.
Well now, I guess it wasn't a boy that took the Avery scholarship, was it?
It was a girl--my girl--my girl that I'm proud of." He smiled his shy smile at her as he went into the yard.
Anne took the memory of it with her when she went to her room that night and sat for a long while at her open window, thinking of the past and dreaming of the future.
Outside the Snow Queen was mistily white in the moonshine; the frogs were singing in the marsh beyond Orchard Slope.
The Reaper Whose Name Is Death MATTHEW--Matthew--what is the matter?
Matthew, are you sick?" It was Marilla who spoke, alarm in every jerky word.
Anne dropped her flowers and sprang across the kitchen to him at the same moment as Marilla.
They were both too late; before they could reach him Matthew had fallen across the threshold. "He's fainted," gasped Marilla.
Mrs. Lynde, who was there on an errand, came too.
They found Anne and Marilla distractedly trying to restore Matthew to consciousness. Mrs. Lynde pushed them gently aside, tried his pulse, and then laid her ear over his heart.
She looked at their anxious faces sorrowfully and the tears came into her eyes. "Oh, Marilla," she said gravely.
I don't think--we can do anything for him." "Mrs. Lynde, you don't think--you can't think Matthew is--is--" Anne could not say the dreadful word; she turned sick and pallid. "Child, yes, I'm afraid of it.
The secret of the shock was discovered to be in the paper Matthew had held and which Martin had brought from the office that morning.
It contained an account of the failure of the Abbey Bank. The news spread quickly through Avonlea, and all day friends and neighbors thronged Green Gables and came and went on errands of kindness for the dead and living.
In the parlor lay Matthew Cuthbert in his coffin, his long gray hair framing his placid face on which there was a little kindly smile as if he but slept, dreaming pleasant dreams.
There were flowers about him--sweet old-fashioned flowers which his mother had planted in the homestead garden in her bridal days and for which Matthew had always had a secret, wordless love.
Anne had gathered them and brought them to him, her anguished, tearless eyes burning in her white face.
It was the last thing she could do for him. The Barrys and Mrs. Lynde stayed with them that night.
Diana, going to the east gable, where Anne was standing at her window, said gently: "Anne dear, would you like to have me sleep with you tonight?" "Thank you, Diana.
Anne looked earnestly into her friend's face.
I think you won't misunderstand me when I say I want to be alone.
I haven't been alone one minute since it happened--and I want to be.
I want to be quite silent and quiet and try to realize it.
Marilla's impassioned grief, breaking all the bounds of natural reserve and lifelong habit in its stormy rush, she could comprehend better than Anne's tearless agony.
But she went away kindly, leaving Anne alone to keep her first vigil with sorrow. Anne hoped that the tears would come in solitude.
She could see Matthew's face smiling at her as he had smiled when they parted at the gate that last evening--she could hear his voice saying, "My girl--my girl that I'm proud of.
Then the tears came and Anne wept her heart out.
Marilla heard her and crept in to comfort her. "There--there--don't cry so, dearie.
It can't bring him back. It--it--isn't right to cry so.
I knew that today, but I couldn't help it then.
He'd always been such a good, kind brother to me--but God knows best." "Oh, just let me cry, Marilla," sobbed Anne.
The tears don't hurt me like that ache did.
Stay here for a little while with me and keep your arm round me--so.
I couldn't have Diana stay, she's good and kind and sweet--but it's not her sorrow--she's outside of it and she couldn't come close enough to my heart to help me.
It's our sorrow--yours and mine.
Oh, Marilla, what will we do without him?" "We've got each other, Anne.
I don't know what I'd do if you weren't here--if you'd never come.
Oh, Anne, I know I've been kind of strict and harsh with you maybe--but you mustn't think I didn't love you as well as Matthew did, for all that.
I want to tell you now when I can.
It's never been easy for me to say things out of my heart, but at times like this it's easier.
I miss him so much--all the time--and yet, Mrs. Allan, the world and life seem very beautiful and interesting to me for all.
Today Diana said something funny and I found myself laughing.
I thought when it happened I could never laugh again.
And it somehow seems as if I oughtn't to." "When Matthew was here he liked to hear you laugh and he liked to know that you found pleasure in the pleasant things around you," said Mrs. Allan gently.
He is just away now; and he likes to know it just the same.
I am sure we should not shut our hearts against the healing influences that nature offers us.
But I can understand your feeling. I think we all experience the same thing.
I took a slip of the little white Scotch rosebush his mother brought out from Scotland long ago; Matthew always liked those roses the best--they were so small and sweet on their thorny stems.
It made me feel glad that I could plant it by his grave--as if I were doing something that must please him in taking it there to be near him.
I hope he has roses like them in heaven.
Perhaps the souls of all those little white roses that he has loved so many summers were all there to meet him.
I must go home now.
Marilla was sitting on the front door-steps and Anne sat down beside her.
The door was open behind them, held back by a big pink conch shell with hints of sea sunsets in its smooth inner convolutions. Anne gathered some sprays of pale-yellow honeysuckle and put them in her hair.
She liked the delicious hint of fragrance, as some aerial benediction, above her every time she moved. "Doctor Spencer was here while you were away," Marilla said.
He says that the specialist will be in town tomorrow and he insists that I must go in and have my eyes examined.
I suppose I'd better go and have it over.
I'll be more than thankful if the man can give me the right kind of glasses to suit my eyes.
You won't mind staying here alone while I'm away, will you?
Martin will have to drive me in and there's ironing and baking to do." "I shall be all right.
Diana will come over for company for me.
I shall attend to the ironing and baking beautifully--you needn't fear that I'll starch the handkerchiefs or flavor the cake with liniment." Marilla laughed. "What a girl you were for making mistakes in them days, Anne.
You were always getting into scrapes.
I did use to think you were possessed.
Do you mind the time you dyed your hair?" "Yes, indeed.
I shall never forget it," smiled Anne, touching the heavy braid of hair that was wound about her shapely head.
I laugh a little now sometimes when I think what a worry my hair used to be to me--but I don't laugh _much_, because it was a very real trouble then.
I did suffer terribly over my hair and my freckles.
My freckles are really gone; and people are nice enough to tell me my hair is auburn now--all but Josie Pye.
She informed me yesterday that she really thought it was redder than ever, or at least my black dress made it look redder, and she asked me if people who had red hair ever got used to having it.
Marilla, I've almost decided to give up trying to like Josie Pye.
I've made what I would once have called a heroic effort to like her, but Josie Pye won't _be_ liked." "Josie is a Pye," said Marilla sharply, "so she can't help being disagreeable.
I suppose people of that kind serve some useful purpose in society, but I must say I don't know what it is any more than I know the use of thistles.
Is Josie going to teach?" "No, she is going back to Queen's next year.
So are Moody Spurgeon and Charlie Sloane.
I saw him in church last Sunday and he seemed so tall and manly.
He looks a lot like his father did at the same age.
John Blythe was a nice boy.
We used to be real good friends, he and I.
People called him my beau." Anne looked up with swift interest. "Oh, Marilla--and what happened?--why didn't you--" "We had a quarrel.
I wouldn't forgive him when he asked me to.
I meant to, after awhile--but I was sulky and angry and I wanted to punish him first.
He never came back--the Blythes were all mighty independent.
But I always felt--rather sorry.
I've always kind of wished I'd forgiven him when I had the chance." "So you've had a bit of romance in your life, too," said Anne softly. "Yes, I suppose you might call it that.
You wouldn't think so to look at me, would you?
But you never can tell about people from their outsides. Everybody has forgot about me and John.
But it all came back to me when I saw Gilbert last Sunday." CHAPTER XXXVIII.
The Bend in the Road MARILLA went to town the next day and returned in the evening.
Anne had gone over to Orchard Slope with Diana and came back to find Marilla in the kitchen, sitting by the table with her head leaning on her hand. Something in her dejected attitude struck a chill to Anne's heart.
She had never seen Marilla sit limply inert like that. "Are you very tired, Marilla?" "Yes--no--I don't know," said Marilla wearily, looking up.
I suppose I am tired but I haven't thought about it.
It's not that." "Did you see the oculist?
What did he say?" asked Anne anxiously. "Yes, I saw him.
Anne, just think of it!" For a minute Anne, after her first quick exclamation of dismay, was silent.
It seemed to her that she could _not_ speak.
Then she said bravely, but with a catch in her voice: "Marilla, _don't_ think of it.
You know he has given you hope.
If you are careful you won't lose your sight altogether; and if his glasses cure your headaches it will be a great thing." "I don't call it much hope," said Marilla bitterly.
What am I to live for if I can't read or sew or do anything like that?
I might as well be blind--or dead.
And as for crying, I can't help that when I get lonesome.
But there, it's no good talking about it.
If you'll get me a cup of tea I'll be thankful.
Don't say anything about this to any one for a spell yet, anyway.
I can't bear that folks should come here to question and sympathize and talk about it." When Marilla had eaten her lunch Anne persuaded her to go to bed.
Then Anne went herself to the east gable and sat down by her window in the darkness alone with her tears and her heaviness of heart.
How sadly things had changed since she had sat there the night after coming home! Then she had been full of hope and joy and the future had looked rosy with promise.
Anne wondered what he could have been saying to bring that look to Marilla's face. "What did Mr. Sadler want, Marilla?" Marilla sat down by the window and looked at Anne.
There were tears in her eyes in defiance of the oculist's prohibition and her voice broke as she said: "He heard that I was going to sell Green Gables and he wants to buy it." "Buy it!
Anne wondered if she had heard aright.
Oh, Marilla, you don't mean to sell Green Gables!" "Anne, I don't know what else is to be done.
I've thought it all over. If my eyes were strong I could stay here and make out to look after things and manage, with a good hired man.
But as it is I can't.
I may lose my sight altogether; and anyway I'll not be fit to run things.
Oh, I never thought I'd live to see the day when I'd have to sell my home. But things would only go behind worse and worse all the time, till nobody would want to buy it.
Every cent of our money went in that bank; and there's some notes Matthew gave last fall to pay.
Mrs. Lynde advises me to sell the farm and board somewhere--with her I suppose.
It won't bring much--it's small and the buildings are old.
But it'll be enough for me to live on I reckon.
I'm thankful you're provided for with that scholarship, Anne.
But you can see for yourself.
I can't stay here alone.
I'd go crazy with trouble and loneliness.
And my sight would go--I know it would." "You won't have to stay here alone, Marilla.
I'm not going to Redmond." "Not going to Redmond!
Marilla lifted her worn face from her hands and looked at Anne.
Why, what do you mean?" "Just what I say.
I'm not going to take the scholarship.
I decided so the night after you came home from town.
You surely don't think I could leave you alone in your trouble, Marilla, after all you've done for me. I've been thinking and planning.
Let me tell you my plans.
Mr. Barry wants to rent the farm for next year.
So you won't have any bother over that.
And I'm going to teach.
I've applied for the school here--but I don't expect to get it for I understand the trustees have promised it to Gilbert Blythe.
But I can have the Carmody school--Mr. Blair told me so last night at the store.
Of course that won't be quite as nice or convenient as if I had the Avonlea school.
But I can board home and drive myself over to Carmody and back, in the warm weather at least.
And even in winter I can come home Fridays.
We'll keep a horse for that.
Oh, I have it all planned out, Marilla.
And I'll read to you and keep you cheered up.
You sha'n't be dull or lonesome.
And we'll be real cozy and happy here together, you and I." Marilla had listened like a woman in a dream. "Oh, Anne, I could get on real well if you were here, I know.
But I can't let you sacrifice yourself so for me.
It would be terrible." "Nonsense!
Nothing could be worse than giving up Green Gables--nothing could hurt me more.
We must keep the dear old place.
My mind is quite made up, Marilla.
I'm _not_ going to Redmond; and I _am_ going to stay here and teach.
Don't you worry about me a bit." "But your ambitions--and--" "I'm just as ambitious as ever.
Only, I've changed the object of my ambitions.
I'm going to be a good teacher--and I'm going to save your eyesight.
Besides, I mean to study at home here and take a little college course all by myself.
Oh, I've dozens of plans, Marilla.
I've been thinking them out for a week.
I shall give life here my best, and I believe it will give its best to me in return.
When I left Queen's my future seemed to stretch out before me like a straight road.
I thought I could see along it for many a milestone.
Now there is a bend in it.
I don't know what lies around the bend, but I'm going to believe that the best does.
It has a fascination of its own, that bend, Marilla.
I'm sixteen and a half, 'obstinate as a mule,' as Mrs. Lynde once told me," laughed Anne.
Oh, Marilla, don't you go pitying me.
I don't like to be pitied, and there is no need for it.
I'm heart glad over the very thought of staying at dear Green Gables.
Nobody could love it as you and I do--so we must keep it." "You blessed girl!" said Marilla, yielding.
I feel as if you'd given me new life.
I guess I ought to stick out and make you go to college--but I know I can't, so I ain't going to try.
Most of the good folks, not knowing about Marilla's eyes, thought she was foolish.
She told Anne so in approving words that brought tears of pleasure to the girl's eyes.
Neither did good Mrs. Lynde.
She came up one evening and found Anne and Marilla sitting at the front door in the warm, scented summer dusk.
I've been on my feet all day, and two hundred pounds is a good bit for two feet to carry round.
It's a great blessing not to be fat, Marilla.
I hope you appreciate it.
Well, Anne, I hear you've given up your notion of going to college.
I was real glad to hear it.
You've got as much education now as a woman can be comfortable with.
I don't believe in girls going to college with the men and cramming their heads full of Latin and Greek and all that nonsense." "But I'm going to study Latin and Greek just the same, Mrs. Lynde," said Anne laughing.
I'm going to take my Arts course right here at Green Gables, and study everything that I would at college." Mrs. Lynde lifted her hands in holy horror. "Anne Shirley, you'll kill yourself." "Not a bit of it.
I shall thrive on it.
Oh, I'm not going to overdo things.
As 'Josiah Allen's wife,' says, I shall be 'mejum'.
But I'll have lots of spare time in the long winter evenings, and I've no vocation for fancy work.
I'm going to teach over at Carmody, you know." "I don't know it.
I guess you're going to teach right here in Avonlea. The trustees have decided to give you the school." "Mrs. Lynde!" cried Anne, springing to her feet in her surprise.
Why, I thought they had promised it to Gilbert Blythe!" "So they did.
But as soon as Gilbert heard that you had applied for it he went to them--they had a business meeting at the school last night, you know--and told them that he withdrew his application, and suggested that they accept yours.
He said he was going to teach at White Sands.
Of course he knew how much you wanted to stay with Marilla, and I must say I think it was real kind and thoughtful in him, that's what.
Real self-sacrificing, too, for he'll have his board to pay at White Sands, and everybody knows he's got to earn his own way through college.
So the trustees decided to take you.
I was tickled to death when Thomas came home and told me." "I don't feel that I ought to take it," murmured Anne.
I mean--I don't think I ought to let Gilbert make such a sacrifice for--for me." "I guess you can't prevent him now.
He's signed papers with the White Sands trustees.
So it wouldn't do him any good now if you were to refuse.
Of course you'll take the school.
You'll get along all right, now that there are no Pyes going.
Josie was the last of them, and a good thing she was, that's what.
There's been some Pye or other going to Avonlea school for the last twenty years, and I guess their mission in life was to keep school teachers reminded that earth isn't their home. Bless my heart!
What does all that winking and blinking at the Barry gable mean?" "Diana is signaling for me to go over," laughed Anne.
You know we keep up the old custom.
Excuse me while I run over and see what she wants." Anne ran down the clover slope like a deer, and disappeared in the firry shadows of the Haunted Wood.
As Mrs. Lynde told her Thomas that night. "Marilla Cuthbert has got _mellow_.
That's what." Anne went to the little Avonlea graveyard the next evening to put fresh flowers on Matthew's grave and water the Scotch rosebush.
She lingered there until dusk, liking the peace and calm of the little place, with its poplars whose rustle was like low, friendly speech, and its whispering grasses growing at will among the graves.
When she finally left it and walked down the long hill that sloped to the Lake of Shining Waters it was past sunset and all Avonlea lay before her in a dreamlike afterlight--"a haunt of ancient peace.
There was a freshness in the air as of a wind that had blown over honey-sweet fields of clover.
Home lights twinkled out here and there among the homestead trees.
Beyond lay the sea, misty and purple, with its haunting, unceasing murmur.
The west was a glory of soft mingled hues, and the pond reflected them all in still softer shadings.
It was Gilbert, and the whistle died on his lips as he recognized Anne.
It was very good of you--and I want you to know that I appreciate it." Gilbert took the offered hand eagerly. "It wasn't particularly good of me at all, Anne.
I was pleased to be able to do you some small service.
Are we going to be friends after this?
Have you really forgiven me my old fault?" Anne laughed and tried unsuccessfully to withdraw her hand. "I forgave you that day by the pond landing, although I didn't know it.
What a stubborn little goose I was.
I've been--I may as well make a complete confession--I've been sorry ever since." "We are going to be the best of friends," said Gilbert, jubilantly.
We were born to be good friends, Anne.
I know we can help each other in many ways.
You are going to keep up your studies, aren't you?
Come, I'm going to walk home with you." Marilla looked curiously at Anne when the latter entered the kitchen. "Who was that came up the lane with you, Anne?" "Gilbert Blythe," answered Anne, vexed to find herself blushing.
But we have decided that it will be much more sensible to be good friends in the future.
Were we really there half an hour?
It seemed just a few minutes.
And there was always the bend in the road! "'God's in his heaven, all's right with the world,'" whispered Anne softly.
May it haunt their houses pleasantly, and no one wish to lay it. Their faithful Friend and Servant, C.
There is no doubt whatever about that.
The register of his burial was signed by the clergyman, the clerk, the undertaker, and the chief mourner.
Scrooge signed it: and Scrooge's name was good upon 'Change, for anything he chose to put his hand to.
Old Marley was as dead as a door-nail. Mind!
I don't mean to say that I know, of my own knowledge, what there is particularly dead about a door-nail.
I might have been inclined, myself, to regard a coffin-nail as the deadest piece of ironmongery in the trade.
But the wisdom of our ancestors is in the simile; and my unhallowed hands shall not disturb it, or the Country's done for.
You will therefore permit me to repeat, emphatically, that Marley was as dead as a door-nail. Scrooge knew he was dead?
Of course he did. How could it be otherwise?
Scrooge and he were partners for I don't know how many years.
Scrooge was his sole executor, his sole administrator, his sole assign, his sole residuary legatee, his sole friend, and sole mourner.
There is no doubt that Marley was dead.
This must be distinctly understood, or nothing wonderful can come of the story I am going to relate.
The firm was known as Scrooge and Marley.
Sometimes people new to the business called Scrooge Scrooge, and sometimes Marley, but he answered to both names.
It was all the same to him. Oh!
But he was a tight-fisted hand at the grind-stone, Scrooge! a squeezing, wrenching, grasping, scraping, clutching, covetous, old sinner!
Hard and sharp as flint, from which no steel had ever struck out generous fire; secret, and self-contained, and solitary as an oyster.
The cold within him froze his old features, nipped his pointed nose, shrivelled his cheek, stiffened his gait; made his eyes red, his thin lips blue; and spoke out shrewdly in his grating voice.
A frosty rime was on his head, and on his eyebrows, and his wiry chin.
He carried his own low temperature always about with him; he iced his office in the dog-days; and didn't thaw it one degree at Christmas. External heat and cold had little influence on Scrooge.
No warmth could warm, no wintry weather chill him.
No wind that blew was bitterer than he, no falling snow was more intent upon its purpose, no pelting rain less open to entreaty.
Foul weather didn't know where to have him.
The heaviest rain, and snow, and hail, and sleet, could boast of the advantage over him in only one respect.
They often "came down" handsomely, and Scrooge never did. Nobody ever stopped him in the street to say, with gladsome looks, "My dear Scrooge, how are you? When will you come to see me?
No beggars implored him to bestow a trifle, no children asked him what it was o'clock, no man or woman ever once in all his life inquired the way to such and such a place, of Scrooge.
It was the very thing he liked.
It was cold, bleak, biting weather: foggy withal: and he could hear the people in the court outside, go wheezing up and down, beating their hands upon their breasts, and stamping their feet upon the pavement stones to warm them.
The city clocks had only just gone three, but it was quite dark already-- it had not been light all day--and candles were flaring in the windows of the neighbouring offices, like ruddy smears upon the palpable brown air.
Scrooge had a very small fire, but the clerk's fire was so very much smaller that it looked like one coal.
But he couldn't replenish it, for Scrooge kept the coal-box in his own room; and so surely as the clerk came in with the shovel, the master predicted that it would be necessary for them to part.
Wherefore the clerk put on his white comforter, and tried to warm himself at the candle; in which effort, not being a man of a strong imagination, he failed. "A merry Christmas, uncle!
God save you!" cried a cheerful voice.
You don't mean that, I am sure?" "I do," said Scrooge.
What right have you to be merry?
What reason have you to be merry?
You're poor enough." "Come, then," returned the nephew gaily.
What right have you to be dismal?
What reason have you to be morose?
Merry Christmas! Out upon merry Christmas!
If I could work my will," said Scrooge indignantly, "every idiot who goes about with 'Merry Christmas' on his lips, should be boiled with his own pudding, and buried with a stake of holly through his heart.
He should!" "Uncle!" pleaded the nephew. "Nephew!" returned the uncle sternly, "keep Christmas in your own way, and let me keep it in mine." "Keep it!" repeated Scrooge's nephew.
But you don't keep it." "Let me leave it alone, then," said Scrooge.
Much good may it do you!
Much good it has ever done you!" "There are many things from which I might have derived good, by which I have not profited, I dare say," returned the nephew.
You're quite a powerful speaker, sir," he added, turning to his nephew.
I wonder you don't go into Parliament." "Don't be angry, uncle.
Dine with us to-morrow." Scrooge said that he would see him--yes, indeed he did.
He went the whole length of the expression, and said that he would see him in that extremity first. "But why?" cried Scrooge's nephew.
Why?" "Why did you get married?" said Scrooge. "Because I fell in love." "Because you fell in love!" growled Scrooge, as if that were the only one thing in the world more ridiculous than a merry Christmas.
Good afternoon!" "Nay, uncle, but you never came to see me before that happened.
We have never had any quarrel, to which I have been a party.
But I have made the trial in homage to Christmas, and I'll keep my Christmas humour to the last.
So A Merry Christmas, uncle!" "Good afternoon!" said Scrooge. "And A Happy New Year!" "Good afternoon!" said Scrooge. His nephew left the room without an angry word, notwithstanding.
I'll retire to Bedlam." This lunatic, in letting Scrooge's nephew out, had let two other people in. They were portly gentlemen, pleasant to behold, and now stood, with their hats off, in Scrooge's office.
They had books and papers in their hands, and bowed to him. "Scrooge and Marley's, I believe," said one of the gentlemen, referring to his list.
Have I the pleasure of addressing Mr. Scrooge, or Mr. Marley?" "Mr. Marley has been dead these seven years," Scrooge replied.
He died seven years ago, this very night." "We have no doubt his liberality is well represented by his surviving partner," said the gentleman, presenting his credentials. It certainly was; for they had been two kindred spirits.
Still," returned the gentleman, "I wish I could say they were not." "The Treadmill and the Poor Law are in full vigour, then?" said Scrooge. "Both very busy, sir." "Oh!
I was afraid, from what you said at first, that something had occurred to stop them in their useful course," said Scrooge.
We choose this time, because it is a time, of all others, when Want is keenly felt, and Abundance rejoices.
What shall I put you down for?" "Nothing!
Scrooge replied. "You wish to be anonymous?" "I wish to be left alone," said Scrooge.
Since you ask me what I wish, gentlemen, that is my answer. I don't make merry myself at Christmas and I can't afford to make idle people merry.
It's enough for a man to understand his own business, and not to interfere with other people's.
Good afternoon, gentlemen!" Seeing clearly that it would be useless to pursue their point, the gentlemen withdrew.
The water-plug being left in solitude, its overflowings sullenly congealed, and turned to misanthropic ice.
The brightness of the shops where holly sprigs and berries crackled in the lamp heat of the windows, made pale faces ruddy as they passed.
Poulterers' and grocers' trades became a splendid joke: a glorious pageant, with which it was next to impossible to believe that such dull principles as bargain and sale had anything to do.
If the good Saint Dunstan had but nipped the Evil Spirit's nose with a touch of such weather as that, instead of using his familiar weapons, then indeed he would have roared to lusty purpose.
But I suppose you must have the whole day.
Be here all the earlier next morning." The clerk promised that he would; and Scrooge walked out with a growl.
He lived in chambers which had once belonged to his deceased partner.
Let it also be borne in mind that Scrooge had not bestowed one thought on Marley, since his last mention of his seven years' dead partner that afternoon.
It was not in impenetrable shadow as the other objects in the yard were, but had a dismal light about it, like a bad lobster in a dark cellar.
It was not angry or ferocious, but looked at Scrooge as Marley used to look: with ghostly spectacles turned up on its ghostly forehead.
The hair was curiously stirred, as if by breath or hot air; and, though the eyes were wide open, they were perfectly motionless.
Scrooge was not a man to be frightened by echoes.
There was plenty of width for that, and room to spare; which is perhaps the reason why Scrooge thought he saw a locomotive hearse going on before him in the gloom.
But before he shut his heavy door, he walked through his rooms to see that all was right.
He had just enough recollection of the face to desire to do that. Sitting-room, bedroom, lumber-room.
All as they should be.
Nobody under the table, nobody under the sofa; a small fire in the grate; spoon and basin ready; and the little saucepan of gruel (Scrooge had a cold in his head) upon the hob.
Nobody under the bed; nobody in the closet; nobody in his dressing-gown, which was hanging up in a suspicious attitude against the wall.
Old fire-guard, old shoes, two fish-baskets, washing-stand on three legs, and a poker. Quite satisfied, he closed his door, and locked himself in; double-locked himself in, which was not his custom.
It was with great astonishment, and with a strange, inexplicable dread, that as he looked, he saw this bell begin to swing.
The bells ceased as they had begun, together.
They were succeeded by a clanking noise, deep down below; as if some person were dragging a heavy chain over the casks in the wine-merchant's cellar.
I won't believe it." His colour changed though, when, without a pause, it came on through the heavy door, and passed into the room before his eyes.
Upon its coming in, the dying flame leaped up, as though it cried, "I know him; Marley's Ghost!" and fell again. The same face: the very same.
Marley in his pigtail, usual waistcoat, tights and boots; the tassels on the latter bristling, like his pigtail, and his coat-skirts, and the hair upon his head.
The chain he drew was clasped about his middle.
You're particular, for a shade.
You may be an undigested bit of beef, a blot of mustard, a crumb of cheese, a fragment of an underdone potato.
There's more of gravy than of grave about you, whatever you are!" Scrooge was not much in the habit of cracking jokes, nor did he feel, in his heart, by any means waggish then.
There was something very awful, too, in the spectre's being provided with an infernal atmosphere of its own.
Humbug, I tell you! humbug!" At this the spirit raised a frightful cry, and shook its chain with such a dismal and appalling noise, that Scrooge held on tight to his chair, to save himself from falling in a swoon.
Dreadful apparition, why do you trouble me?" "Man of the worldly mind!" replied the Ghost, "do you believe in me or not?" "I do," said Scrooge.
Old Jacob Marley, tell me more.
Speak comfort to me, Jacob!" "I have none to give," the Ghost replied.
It comes from other regions, Ebenezer Scrooge, and is conveyed by other ministers, to other kinds of men.
Nor can I tell you what I would.
A very little more is all permitted to me.
I cannot rest, I cannot stay, I cannot linger anywhere.
And travelling all the time!" "The whole time," said the Ghost.
Not to know that any Christian spirit working kindly in its little sphere, whatever it may be, will find its mortal life too short for its vast means of usefulness.
Not to know that no space of regret can make amends for one life's opportunity misused!
Oh! such was I!" "But you were always a good man of business, Jacob," faltered Scrooge, who now began to apply this to himself. "Business!" cried the Ghost, wringing its hands again.
The common welfare was my business; charity, mercy, forbearance, and benevolence, were, all, my business.
Why did I walk through crowds of fellow-beings with my eyes turned down, and never raise them to that blessed Star which led the Wise Men to a poor abode!
Were there no poor homes to which its light would have conducted me!" Scrooge was very much dismayed to hear the spectre going on at this rate, and began to quake exceedingly. "Hear me!" cried the Ghost.
My time is nearly gone." "I will," said Scrooge.
But don't be hard upon me!
Pray!" "How it is that I appear before you in a shape that you can see, I may not tell.
I have sat invisible beside you many and many a day." It was not an agreeable idea.
Scrooge shivered, and wiped the perspiration from his brow. "That is no light part of my penance," pursued the Ghost.
I am here to-night to warn you, that you have yet a chance and hope of escaping my fate.
A chance and hope of my procuring, Ebenezer." "You were always a good friend to me," said Scrooge.
Expect the first to-morrow, when the bell tolls One." "Couldn't I take 'em all at once, and have it over, Jacob?" hinted Scrooge. "Expect the second on the next night at the same hour.
The third upon the next night when the last stroke of Twelve has ceased to vibrate.
Scrooge knew this, by the smart sound its teeth made, when the jaws were brought together by the bandage.
Scrooge stopped. Not so much in obedience, as in surprise and fear: for on the raising of the hand, he became sensible of confused noises in the air; incoherent sounds of lamentation and regret; wailings inexpressibly sorrowful and self-accusatory.
The spectre, after listening for a moment, joined in the mournful dirge; and floated out upon the bleak, dark night. Scrooge followed to the window: desperate in his curiosity.
He looked out. The air was filled with phantoms, wandering hither and thither in restless haste, and moaning as they went.
Every one of them wore chains like Marley's Ghost; some few (they might be guilty governments) were linked together; none were free.
Many had been personally known to Scrooge in their lives.
The misery with them all was, clearly, that they sought to interfere, for good, in human matters, and had lost the power for ever. Whether these creatures faded into mist, or mist enshrouded them, he could not tell.
But they and their spirit voices faded together; and the night became as it had been when he walked home. Scrooge closed the window, and examined the door by which the Ghost had entered.
It was double-locked, as he had locked it with his own hands, and the bolts were undisturbed.
He tried to say "Humbug!" but stopped at the first syllable.
He was endeavouring to pierce the darkness with his ferret eyes, when the chimes of a neighbouring church struck the four quarters.
So he listened for the hour. To his great astonishment the heavy bell went on from six to seven, and from seven to eight, and regularly up to twelve; then stopped.
It was past two when he went to bed.
An icicle must have got into the works.
Twelve! He touched the spring of his repeater, to correct this most preposterous clock.
Its rapid little pulse beat twelve: and stopped. "Why, it isn't possible," said Scrooge, "that I can have slept through a whole day and far into another night.
It isn't possible that anything has happened to the sun, and this is twelve at noon!" The idea being an alarming one, he scrambled out of bed, and groped his way to the window.
He was obliged to rub the frost off with the sleeve of his dressing-gown before he could see anything; and could see very little then.
The more he thought, the more perplexed he was; and the more he endeavoured not to think, the more he thought. Marley's Ghost bothered him exceedingly.
Light flashed up in the room upon the instant, and the curtains of his bed were drawn. The curtains of his bed were drawn aside, I tell you, by a hand.
Not the curtains at his feet, nor the curtains at his back, but those to which his face was addressed.
The arms were very long and muscular; the hands the same, as if its hold were of uncommon strength.
Its legs and feet, most delicately formed, were, like those upper members, bare.
It wore a tunic of the purest white; and round its waist was bound a lustrous belt, the sheen of which was beautiful.
It held a branch of fresh green holly in its hand; and, in singular contradiction of that wintry emblem, had its dress trimmed with summer flowers.
And in the very wonder of this, it would be itself again; distinct and clear as ever. "Are you the Spirit, sir, whose coming was foretold to me?" asked Scrooge. "I am!" The voice was soft and gentle.
Singularly low, as if instead of being so close beside him, it were at a distance. "Who, and what are you?
He then made bold to inquire what business brought him there. "Your welfare!" said the Ghost. Scrooge expressed himself much obliged, but could not help thinking that a night of unbroken rest would have been more conducive to that end.
The Spirit must have heard him thinking, for it said immediately: "Your reclamation, then.
The grasp, though gentle as a woman's hand, was not to be resisted.
The city had entirely vanished.
Not a vestige of it was to be seen.
The darkness and the mist had vanished with it, for it was a clear, cold, winter day, with snow upon the ground. "Good Heaven!" said Scrooge, clasping his hands together, as he looked about him.
I was bred in this place.
I was a boy here!" The Spirit gazed upon him mildly.
Its gentle touch, though it had been light and instantaneous, appeared still present to the old man's sense of feeling.
He was conscious of a thousand odours floating in the air, each one connected with a thousand thoughts, and hopes, and joys, and cares long, long, forgotten! "Your lip is trembling," said the Ghost.
They have no consciousness of us." The jocund travellers came on; and as they came, Scrooge knew and named them every one.
Why was he rejoiced beyond all bounds to see them!
Why did his cold eye glisten, and his heart leap up as they went past!
Why was he filled with gladness when he heard them give each other Merry Christmas, as they parted at cross-roads and bye-ways, for their several homes!
What was merry Christmas to Scrooge? Out upon merry Christmas!
What good had it ever done to him? "The school is not quite deserted," said the Ghost.
A solitary child, neglected by his friends, is left there still." Scrooge said he knew it.
And he sobbed. They left the high-road, by a well-remembered lane, and soon approached a mansion of dull red brick, with a little weathercock-surmounted cupola, on the roof, and a bell hanging in it.
It was a large house, but one of broken fortunes; for the spacious offices were little used, their walls were damp and mossy, their windows broken, and their gates decayed.
It opened before them, and disclosed a long, bare, melancholy room, made barer still by lines of plain deal forms and desks.
Suddenly a man, in foreign garments: wonderfully real and distinct to look at: stood outside the window, with an axe stuck in his belt, and leading by the bridle an ass laden with wood. "Why, it's Ali Baba!
It's dear old honest Ali Baba!
One Christmas time, when yonder solitary child was left here all alone, he did come, for the first time, just like that.
And Valentine," said Scrooge, "and his wild brother, Orson; there they go!
And what's his name, who was put down in his drawers, asleep, at the Gate of Damascus; don't you see him! And the Sultan's Groom turned upside down by the Genii; there he is upon his head!
Green body and yellow tail, with a thing like a lettuce growing out of the top of his head; there he is!
Poor Robin Crusoe, he called him, when he came home again after sailing round the island.
Poor Robin Crusoe, where have you been, Robin Crusoe?
The man thought he was dreaming, but he wasn't. It was the Parrot, you know.
There goes Friday, running for his life to the little creek!
There was a boy singing a Christmas Carol at my door last night.
The panels shrunk, the windows cracked; fragments of plaster fell out of the ceiling, and the naked laths were shown instead; but how all this was brought about, Scrooge knew no more than you do.
Home, for good and all.
Home, for ever and ever.
Father is so much kinder than he used to be, that home's like Heaven!
But she had a large heart!" "So she had," cried Scrooge.
I will not gainsay it, Spirit.
God forbid!" "She died a woman," said the Ghost, "and had, as I think, children." "One child," Scrooge returned. "True," said the Ghost.
Bless his heart; it's Fezziwig alive again!" Old Fezziwig laid down his pen, and looked up at the clock, which pointed to the hour of seven.
He rubbed his hands; adjusted his capacious waistcoat; laughed all over himself, from his shoes to his organ of benevolence; and called out in a comfortable, oily, rich, fat, jovial voice: "Yo ho, there!
Dick!" Scrooge's former self, now grown a young man, came briskly in, accompanied by his fellow-'prentice. "Dick Wilkins, to be sure!" said Scrooge to the Ghost. "Bless me, yes.
He was very much attached to me, was Dick.
Dear, dear!" "Yo ho, my boys!" said Fezziwig.
No more work to-night. Christmas Eve, Dick.
Clear away, my lads, and let's have lots of room here!
There was nothing they wouldn't have cleared away, or couldn't have cleared away, with old Fezziwig looking on.
It was done in a minute.
In came Mrs. Fezziwig, one vast substantial smile.
In came the three Miss Fezziwigs, beaming and lovable.
In came the six young followers whose hearts they broke.
In came all the young men and women employed in the business.
In came the housemaid, with her cousin, the baker.
In came the cook, with her brother's particular friend, the milkman.
When this result was brought about, old Fezziwig, clapping his hands to stop the dance, cried out, "Well done!" and the fiddler plunged his hot face into a pot of porter, especially provided for that purpose.
The sort of man who knew his business better than you or I could have told it him!) struck up "Sir Roger de Coverley.
Then old Fezziwig stood out to dance with Mrs. Fezziwig.
As to her, she was worthy to be his partner in every sense of the term.
If that's not high praise, tell me higher, and I'll use it.
A positive light appeared to issue from Fezziwig's calves.
They shone in every part of the dance like moons.
You couldn't have predicted, at any given time, what would have become of them next.
His heart and soul were in the scene, and with his former self.
He corroborated everything, remembered everything, enjoyed everything, and underwent the strangest agitation.
He has spent but a few pounds of your mortal money: three or four perhaps.
Is that so much that he deserves this praise?" "It isn't that," said Scrooge, heated by the remark, and speaking unconsciously like his former, not his latter, self. "It isn't that, Spirit.
He has the power to render us happy or unhappy; to make our service light or burdensome; a pleasure or a toil.
Say that his power lies in words and looks; in things so slight and insignificant that it is impossible to add and count 'em up: what then?
That's all." His former self turned down the lamps as he gave utterance to the wish; and Scrooge and the Ghost again stood side by side in the open air. "My time grows short," observed the Spirit.
Quick!" This was not addressed to Scrooge, or to any one whom he could see, but it produced an immediate effect.
For again Scrooge saw himself.
He was older now; a man in the prime of life.
I have seen your nobler aspirations fall off one by one, until the master-passion, Gain, engrosses you.
Have I not?" "What then?" he retorted.
Even if I have grown so much wiser, what then?
I am not changed towards you." She shook her head. "Am I?" "Our contract is an old one.
It was made when we were both poor and content to be so, until, in good season, we could improve our worldly fortune by our patient industry.
When it was made, you were another man." "I was a boy," he said impatiently. "Your own feeling tells you that you were not what you are," she returned.
I am. That which promised happiness when we were one in heart, is fraught with misery now that we are two.
How often and how keenly I have thought of this, I will not say.
It is enough that I have thought of it, and can release you." "Have I ever sought release?" "In words.
No. Never." "In what, then?" "In a changed nature; in an altered spirit; in another atmosphere of life; another Hope as its great end.
In everything that made my love of any worth or value in your sight.
If this had never been between us," said the girl, looking mildly, but with steadiness, upon him; "tell me, would you seek me out and try to win me now?
Ah, no!" He seemed to yield to the justice of this supposition, in spite of himself.
But he said with a struggle, "You think not." "I would gladly think otherwise if I could," she answered, "Heaven knows!
When I have learned a Truth like this, I know how strong and irresistible it must be.
I do; and I release you.
A very, very brief time, and you will dismiss the recollection of it, gladly, as an unprofitable dream, from which it happened well that you awoke.
May you be happy in the life you have chosen!" She left him, and they parted. "Spirit!" said Scrooge, "show me no more!
Why do you delight to torture me?" "One shadow more!" exclaimed the Ghost. "No more!" cried Scrooge.
I don't wish to see it.
Show me no more!" But the relentless Ghost pinioned him in both his arms, and forced him to observe what happened next. They were in another scene and place; a room, not very large or handsome, but full of comfort.
Near to the winter fire sat a beautiful young girl, so like that last that Scrooge believed it was the same, until he saw her, now a comely matron, sitting opposite her daughter.
What would I not have given to be one of them!
Though I never could have been so rude, no, no!
I wouldn't for the wealth of all the world have crushed that braided hair, and torn it down; and for the precious little shoe, I wouldn't have plucked it off, God bless my soul! to save my life.
As to measuring her waist in sport, as they did, bold young brood, I couldn't have done it; I should have expected my arm to have grown round it for a punishment, and never come straight again.
The shouts of wonder and delight with which the development of every package was received!
The joy, and gratitude, and ecstasy!
Tut, don't I know?" she added in the same breath, laughing as he laughed.
Mr. Scrooge." "Mr. Scrooge it was.
I passed his office window; and as it was not shut up, and he had a candle inside, I could scarcely help seeing him.
His partner lies upon the point of death, I hear; and there he sat alone.
Quite alone in the world, I do believe." "Spirit!" said Scrooge in a broken voice, "remove me from this place." "I told you these were shadows of the things that have been," said the Ghost.
That they are what they are, do not blame me!" "Remove me!
He felt that he was restored to consciousness in the right nick of time, for the especial purpose of holding a conference with the second messenger despatched to him through Jacob Marley's intervention.
Five minutes, ten minutes, a quarter of an hour went by, yet nothing came.
This idea taking full possession of his mind, he got up softly and shuffled in his slippers to the door. The moment Scrooge's hand was on the lock, a strange voice called him by his name, and bade him enter.
He obeyed. It was his own room.
There was no doubt about that. But it had undergone a surprising transformation.
The walls and ceiling were so hung with living green, that it looked a perfect grove; from every part of which, bright gleaming berries glistened.
Come in! and know me better, man!" Scrooge entered timidly, and hung his head before this Spirit.
It was clothed in one simple green robe, or mantle, bordered with white fur.
This garment hung so loosely on the figure, that its capacious breast was bare, as if disdaining to be warded or concealed by any artifice.
Its feet, observable beneath the ample folds of the garment, were also bare; and on its head it wore no other covering than a holly wreath, set here and there with shining icicles.
Its dark brown curls were long and free; free as its genial face, its sparkling eye, its open hand, its cheery voice, its unconstrained demeanour, and its joyful air.
I am afraid I have not.
Have you had many brothers, Spirit?" "More than eighteen hundred," said the Ghost. "A tremendous family to provide for!" muttered Scrooge. The Ghost of Christmas Present rose. "Spirit," said Scrooge submissively, "conduct me where you will.
I went forth last night on compulsion, and I learnt a lesson which is working now.
The poulterers' shops were still half open, and the fruiterers' were radiant in their glory.
There were great, round, pot-bellied baskets of chestnuts, shaped like the waistcoats of jolly old gentlemen, lolling at the doors, and tumbling out into the street in their apoplectic opulence.
There were ruddy, brown-faced, broad-girthed Spanish Onions, shining in the fatness of their growth like Spanish Friars, and winking from their shelves in wanton slyness at the girls as they went by, and glanced demurely at the hung-up mistletoe.
And at the same time there emerged from scores of bye-streets, lanes, and nameless turnings, innumerable people, carrying their dinners to the bakers' shops.
For they said, it was a shame to quarrel upon Christmas Day.
My own." "Would it apply to any kind of dinner on this day?" asked Scrooge. "To any kindly given.
Wouldn't you?" "I!" cried the Spirit. "You seek to close these places on the Seventh Day?" said Scrooge.
And it comes to the same thing." "I seek!" exclaimed the Spirit. "Forgive me if I am wrong.
Remember that, and charge their doings on themselves, not us." Scrooge promised that he would; and they went on, invisible, as they had been before, into the suburbs of the town.
And your brother, Tiny Tim!
And Martha warn't as late last Christmas Day by half-an-hour?" "Here's Martha, mother!" said a girl, appearing as she spoke. "Here's Martha, mother!" cried the two young Cratchits. "Hurrah!
Never mind so long as you are come," said Mrs. Cratchit.
Sit ye down before the fire, my dear, and have a warm, Lord bless ye!" "No, no!
There's father coming," cried the two young Cratchits, who were everywhere at once.
Somehow he gets thoughtful, sitting by himself so much, and thinks the strangest things you ever heard.
At last the dishes were set on, and grace was said.
Bob said he didn't believe there ever was such a goose cooked.
Its tenderness and flavour, size and cheapness, were the themes of universal admiration.
Yet every one had had enough, and the youngest Cratchits in particular, were steeped in sage and onion to the eyebrows!
But now, the plates being changed by Miss Belinda, Mrs. Cratchit left the room alone--too nervous to bear witnesses--to take the pudding up and bring it in. Suppose it should not be done enough!
Suppose it should break in turning out!
Suppose somebody should have got over the wall of the back-yard, and stolen it, while they were merry with the goose--a supposition at which the two young Cratchits became livid!
All sorts of horrors were supposed. Hallo!
A great deal of steam!
The pudding was out of the copper.
A smell like a washing-day!
A smell like an eating-house and a pastrycook's next door to each other, with a laundress's next door to that! That was the pudding!
Bob Cratchit said, and calmly too, that he regarded it as the greatest success achieved by Mrs. Cratchit since their marriage.
Mrs. Cratchit said that now the weight was off her mind, she would confess she had had her doubts about the quantity of flour.
Everybody had something to say about it, but nobody said or thought it was at all a small pudding for a large family.
It would have been flat heresy to do so.
Any Cratchit would have blushed to hint at such a thing. At last the dinner was all done, the cloth was cleared, the hearth swept, and the fire made up.
The compound in the jug being tasted, and considered perfect, apples and oranges were put upon the table, and a shovel-full of chestnuts on the fire.
Then Bob proposed: "A Merry Christmas to us all, my dears.
God bless us!" Which all the family re-echoed. "God bless us every one!" said Tiny Tim, the last of all. He sat very close to his father's side upon his little stool.
If these shadows remain unaltered by the Future, the child will die." "No, no," said Scrooge.
Oh, no, kind Spirit! say he will be spared." "If these shadows remain unaltered by the Future, none other of my race," returned the Ghost, "will find him here. What then?
Will you decide what men shall live, what men shall die?
It may be, that in the sight of Heaven, you are more worthless and less fit to live than millions like this poor man's child.
Oh God! to hear the Insect on the leaf pronouncing on the too much life among his hungry brothers in the dust!" Scrooge bent before the Ghost's rebuke, and trembling cast his eyes upon the ground.
But he raised them speedily, on hearing his own name. "Mr. Scrooge!" said Bob; "I'll give you Mr. Scrooge, the Founder of the Feast!" "The Founder of the Feast indeed!" cried Mrs. Cratchit, reddening.
I wish I had him here.
I'd give him a piece of my mind to feast upon, and I hope he'd have a good appetite for it." "My dear," said Bob, "the children!
Christmas Day." "It should be Christmas Day, I am sure," said she, "on which one drinks the health of such an odious, stingy, hard, unfeeling man as Mr. Scrooge.
You know he is, Robert! Nobody knows it better than you do, poor fellow!" "My dear," was Bob's mild answer, "Christmas Day." "I'll drink his health for your sake and the Day's," said Mrs. Cratchit, "not for his.
A merry Christmas and a happy new year!
He'll be very merry and very happy, I have no doubt!" The children drank the toast after her.
It was the first of their proceedings which had no heartiness.
Tiny Tim drank it last of all, but he didn't care twopence for it.
Scrooge was the Ogre of the family.
Bob Cratchit told them how he had a situation in his eye for Master Peter, which would bring in, if obtained, full five-and-sixpence weekly.
They were not a handsome family; they were not well dressed; their shoes were far from being water-proof; their clothes were scanty; and Peter might have known, and very likely did, the inside of a pawnbroker's.
Blessings on it, how the Ghost exulted!
How it bared its breadth of breast, and opened its capacious palm, and floated on, outpouring, with a generous hand, its bright and harmless mirth on everything within its reach!
See!" A light shone from the window of a hut, and swiftly they advanced towards it.
Passing through the wall of mud and stone, they found a cheerful company assembled round a glowing fire.
Ha, ha, ha!" If you should happen, by any unlikely chance, to know a man more blest in a laugh than Scrooge's nephew, all I can say is, I should like to know him too.
Introduce him to me, and I'll cultivate his acquaintance. It is a fair, even-handed, noble adjustment of things, that while there is infection in disease and sorrow, there is nothing in the world so irresistibly contagious as laughter and good-humour.
When Scrooge's nephew laughed in this way: holding his sides, rolling his head, and twisting his face into the most extravagant contortions: Scrooge's niece, by marriage, laughed as heartily as he.
And their assembled friends being not a bit behindhand, roared out lustily. "Ha, ha!
Ha, ha, ha, ha!" "He said that Christmas was a humbug, as I live!" cried Scrooge's nephew.
He believed it too!" "More shame for him, Fred!" said Scrooge's niece, indignantly.
Bless those women; they never do anything by halves.
They are always in earnest. She was very pretty: exceedingly pretty.
Altogether she was what you would have called provoking, you know; but satisfactory, too. Oh, perfectly satisfactory. "He's a comical old fellow," said Scrooge's nephew, "that's the truth: and not so pleasant as he might be.
However, his offences carry their own punishment, and I have nothing to say against him." "I'm sure he is very rich, Fred," hinted Scrooge's niece. "At least you always tell me so." "What of that, my dear!" said Scrooge's nephew.
His wealth is of no use to him.
He don't do any good with it. He don't make himself comfortable with it.
I am sorry for him; I couldn't be angry with him if I tried.
Who suffers by his ill whims!
Here, he takes it into his head to dislike us, and he won't come and dine with us. What's the consequence?
He don't lose much of a dinner." "Indeed, I think he loses a very good dinner," interrupted Scrooge's niece.
Everybody else said the same, and they must be allowed to have been competent judges, because they had just had dinner; and, with the dessert upon the table, were clustered round the fire, by lamplight. "Well!
I am sure he loses pleasanter companions than he can find in his own thoughts, either in his mouldy old office, or his dusty chambers.
I mean to give him the same chance every year, whether he likes it or not, for I pity him.
He may rail at Christmas till he dies, but he can't help thinking better of it--I defy him--if he finds me going there, in good temper, year after year, and saying Uncle Scrooge, how are you?
If it only puts him in the vein to leave his poor clerk fifty pounds, that's something; and I think I shook him yesterday." It was their turn to laugh now at the notion of his shaking Scrooge.
But being thoroughly good-natured, and not much caring what they laughed at, so that they laughed at any rate, he encouraged them in their merriment, and passed the bottle joyously. After tea, they had some music.
After a while they played at forfeits; for it is good to be children sometimes, and never better than at Christmas, when its mighty Founder was a child himself.
There was first a game at blind-man's buff.
And I no more believe Topper was really blind than I believe he had eyes in his boots.
My opinion is, that it was a done thing between him and Scrooge's nephew; and that the Ghost of Christmas Present knew it.
The way he went after that plump sister in the lace tucker, was an outrage on the credulity of human nature.
Knocking down the fire-irons, tumbling over the chairs, bumping against the piano, smothering himself among the curtains, wherever she went, there went he!
He always knew where the plump sister was. He wouldn't catch anybody else.
But this the Spirit said could not be done. "Here is a new game," said Scrooge.
At every fresh question that was put to him, this nephew burst into a fresh roar of laughter; and was so inexpressibly tickled, that he was obliged to get up off the sofa and stamp.
At last the plump sister, falling into a similar state, cried out: "I have found it out!
I know what it is, Fred!
I know what it is!" "What is it?" cried Fred. "It's your Uncle Scro-o-o-o-oge!" Which it certainly was.
Uncle Scrooge!" they cried. "A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year to the old man, whatever he is!" said Scrooge's nephew.
He wouldn't take it from me, but may he have it, nevertheless.
Uncle Scrooge!" Uncle Scrooge had imperceptibly become so gay and light of heart, that he would have pledged the unconscious company in return, and thanked them in an inaudible speech, if the Ghost had given him time.
The Spirit stood beside sick beds, and they were cheerful; on foreign lands, and they were close at home; by struggling men, and they were patient in their greater hope; by poverty, and it was rich.
It was strange, too, that while Scrooge remained unaltered in his outward form, the Ghost grew older, clearly older.
Is it a foot or a claw?" "It might be a claw, for the flesh there is upon it," was the Spirit's sorrowful reply.
Look here." From the foldings of its robe, it brought two children; wretched, abject, frightful, hideous, miserable.
They knelt down at its feet, and clung upon the outside of its garment. "Oh, Man! look here.
Look, look, down here!" exclaimed the Ghost. They were a boy and girl.
Yellow, meagre, ragged, scowling, wolfish; but prostrate, too, in their humility.
Where graceful youth should have filled their features out, and touched them with its freshest tints, a stale and shrivelled hand, like that of age, had pinched, and twisted them, and pulled them into shreds.
Where angels might have sat enthroned, devils lurked, and glared out menacing.
No change, no degradation, no perversion of humanity, in any grade, through all the mysteries of wonderful creation, has monsters half so horrible and dread. Scrooge started back, appalled.
Having them shown to him in this way, he tried to say they were fine children, but the words choked themselves, rather than be parties to a lie of such enormous magnitude. "Spirit! are they yours?
Scrooge could say no more. "They are Man's," said the Spirit, looking down upon them.
And they cling to me, appealing from their fathers. This boy is Ignorance.
Beware them both, and all of their degree, but most of all beware this boy, for on his brow I see that written which is Doom, unless the writing be erased.
Deny it!" cried the Spirit, stretching out its hand towards the city.
The Spirit paused a moment, as observing his condition, and giving him time to recover. But Scrooge was all the worse for this.
But as I know your purpose is to do me good, and as I hope to live to be another man from what I was, I am prepared to bear you company, and do it with a thankful heart.
Will you not speak to me?" It gave him no reply.
The hand was pointed straight before them. "Lead on!" said Scrooge.
The night is waning fast, and it is precious time to me, I know.
Left it to his company, perhaps.
He hasn't left it to me.
That's all I know." This pleasantry was received with a general laugh. "It's likely to be a very cheap funeral," said the same speaker; "for upon my life I don't know of anybody to go to it.
Suppose we make up a party and volunteer?" "I don't mind going if a lunch is provided," observed the gentleman with the excrescence on his nose.
But I must be fed, if I make one." Another laugh. "Well, I am the most disinterested among you, after all," said the first speaker, "for I never wear black gloves, and I never eat lunch.
But I'll offer to go, if anybody else will. When I come to think of it, I'm not at all sure that I wasn't his most particular friend; for we used to stop and speak whenever we met.
Bye, bye!" Speakers and listeners strolled away, and mixed with other groups.
Scrooge knew the men, and looked towards the Spirit for an explanation. The Phantom glided on into a street.
Its finger pointed to two persons meeting.
Scrooge listened again, thinking that the explanation might lie here. He knew these men, also, perfectly.
They were men of business: very wealthy, and of great importance.
Old Scratch has got his own at last, hey?" "So I am told," returned the second.
Cold, isn't it?" "Seasonable for Christmas time.
You're not a skater, I suppose?" "No. No. Something else to think of.
Good morning!" Not another word.
Nor could he think of any one immediately connected with himself, to whom he could apply them.
When he roused himself from his thoughtful quest, he fancied from the turn of the hand, and its situation in reference to himself, that the Unseen Eyes were looking at him keenly.
It made him shudder, and feel very cold. They left the busy scene, and went into an obscure part of the town, where Scrooge had never penetrated before, although he recognised its situation, and its bad repute.
The ways were foul and narrow; the shops and houses wretched; the people half-naked, drunken, slipshod, ugly.
Upon the floor within, were piled up heaps of rusty keys, nails, chains, hinges, files, scales, weights, and refuse iron of all kinds.
Secrets that few would like to scrutinise were bred and hidden in mountains of unseemly rags, masses of corrupted fat, and sepulchres of bones.
After a short period of blank astonishment, in which the old man with the pipe had joined them, they all three burst into a laugh. "Let the charwoman alone to be the first!" cried she who had entered first.
Let the laundress alone to be the second; and let the undertaker's man alone to be the third.
Look here, old Joe, here's a chance!
If we haven't all three met here without meaning it!" "You couldn't have met in a better place," said old Joe, removing his pipe from his mouth.
Come into the parlour. You were made free of it long ago, you know; and the other two an't strangers.
Stop till I shut the door of the shop. Ah!
There an't such a rusty bit of metal in the place as its own hinges, I believe; and I'm sure there's no such old bones here, as mine.
We're all suitable to our calling, we're well matched.
Come into the parlour." The parlour was the space behind the screen of rags.
What odds, Mrs. Dilber?" said the woman.
Every person has a right to take care of themselves. He always did." "That's true, indeed!" said the laundress.
No man more so." "Why then, don't stand staring as if you was afraid, woman; who's the wiser?
We're not going to pick holes in each other's coats, I suppose?" "No, indeed!" said Mrs. Dilber and the man together. "We should hope not." "Very well, then!" cried the woman.
If he had been, he'd have had somebody to look after him when he was struck with Death, instead of lying gasping out his last there, alone by himself." "It's the truest word that ever was spoke," said Mrs. Dilber.
It's a judgment on him." "I wish it was a little heavier judgment," replied the woman; "and it should have been, you may depend upon it, if I could have laid my hands on anything else.
Open that bundle, old Joe, and let me know the value of it.
I'm not afraid to be the first, nor afraid for them to see it.
We know pretty well that we were helping ourselves, before we met here, I believe.
Open the bundle, Joe." But the gallantry of her friends would not allow of this; and the man in faded black, mounting the breach first, produced his plunder.
A seal or two, a pencil-case, a pair of sleeve-buttons, and a brooch of no great value, were all.
Sheets and towels, a little wearing apparel, two old-fashioned silver teaspoons, a pair of sugar-tongs, and a few boots.
Her account was stated on the wall in the same manner. "I always give too much to ladies.
It's a weakness of mine, and that's the way I ruin myself," said old Joe.
Bed-curtains!" "Ah!" returned the woman, laughing and leaning forward on her crossed arms.
Bed-curtains!" "You don't mean to say you took 'em down, rings and all, with him lying there?" said Joe. "Yes I do," replied the woman.
Don't drop that oil upon the blankets, now." "His blankets?" asked Joe. "Whose else's do you think?" replied the woman.
He isn't likely to take cold without 'em, I dare say." "I hope he didn't die of anything catching?
Eh?" said old Joe, stopping in his work, and looking up. "Don't you be afraid of that," returned the woman.
I an't so fond of his company that I'd loiter about him for such things, if he did.
Ah! you may look through that shirt till your eyes ache; but you won't find a hole in it, nor a threadbare place.
Somebody was fool enough to do it, but I took it off again.
If calico an't good enough for such a purpose, it isn't good enough for anything.
It's quite as becoming to the body.
He can't look uglier than he did in that one." Scrooge listened to this dialogue in horror.
This is the end of it, you see!
He frightened every one away from him when he was alive, to profit us when he was dead!
Ha, ha, ha!" "Spirit!" said Scrooge, shuddering from head to foot.
The case of this unhappy man might be my own. My life tends that way, now.
A pale light, rising in the outer air, fell straight upon the bed; and on it, plundered and bereft, unwatched, unwept, uncared for, was the body of this man. Scrooge glanced towards the Phantom.
Its steady hand was pointed to the head.
The cover was so carelessly adjusted that the slightest raising of it, the motion of a finger upon Scrooge's part, would have disclosed the face.
But of the loved, revered, and honoured head, thou canst not turn one hair to thy dread purposes, or make one feature odious.
Strike, Shadow, strike! And see his good deeds springing from the wound, to sow the world with life immortal! No voice pronounced these words in Scrooge's ears, and yet he heard them when he looked upon the bed.
He thought, if this man could be raised up now, what would be his foremost thoughts?
A cat was tearing at the door, and there was a sound of gnawing rats beneath the hearth-stone.
What they wanted in the room of death, and why they were so restless and disturbed, Scrooge did not dare to think. "Spirit!" he said, "this is a fearful place.
In leaving it, I shall not leave its lesson, trust me.
Let us go!" Still the Ghost pointed with an unmoved finger to the head. "I understand you," Scrooge returned, "and I would do it, if I could.
But I have not the power, Spirit.
She hurried to the door, and met her husband; a man whose face was careworn and depressed, though he was young.
Nothing is past hope, if such a miracle has happened." "He is past relenting," said her husband.
He is dead." She was a mild and patient creature if her face spoke truth; but she was thankful in her soul to hear it, and she said so, with clasped hands.
He was not only very ill, but dying, then." "To whom will our debt be transferred?" "I don't know.
But before that time we shall be ready with the money; and even though we were not, it would be a bad fortune indeed to find so merciless a creditor in his successor.
We may sleep to-night with light hearts, Caroline!" Yes.
Soften it as they would, their hearts were lighter. The children's faces, hushed and clustered round to hear what they so little understood, were brighter; and it was a happier house for this man's death!
They entered poor Bob Cratchit's house; the dwelling he had visited before; and found the mother and the children seated round the fire. Quiet.
The noisy little Cratchits were as still as statues in one corner, and sat looking up at Peter, who had a book before him.
The mother and her daughters were engaged in sewing.
But surely they were very quiet! "'And He took a child, and set him in the midst of them.'" Where had Scrooge heard those words?
He had not dreamed them.
The boy must have read them out, as he and the Spirit crossed the threshold.
Why did he not go on? The mother laid her work upon the table, and put her hand up to her face. "The colour hurts my eyes," she said. The colour?
Ah, poor Tiny Tim! "They're better now again," said Cratchit's wife.
It makes them weak by candle-light; and I wouldn't show weak eyes to your father when he comes home, for the world.
It must be near his time." "Past it rather," Peter answered, shutting up his book. "But I think he has walked a little slower than he used, these few last evenings, mother." They were very quiet again.
At last she said, and in a steady, cheerful voice, that only faltered once: "I have known him walk with--I have known him walk with Tiny Tim upon his shoulder, very fast indeed." "And so have I," cried Peter.
Often." "And so have I," exclaimed another.
So had all. "But he was very light to carry," she resumed, intent upon her work, "and his father loved him so, that it was no trouble: no trouble.
Then the two young Cratchits got upon his knees and laid, each child a little cheek, against his face, as if they said, "Don't mind it, father.
Don't be grieved!" Bob was very cheerful with them, and spoke pleasantly to all the family.
He looked at the work upon the table, and praised the industry and speed of Mrs. Cratchit and the girls. They would be done long before Sunday, he said. "Sunday!
You went to-day, then, Robert?" said his wife. "Yes, my dear," returned Bob.
I wish you could have gone.
It would have done you good to see how green a place it is.
But you'll see it often.
I promised him that I would walk there on a Sunday.
My little, little child!" cried Bob.
My little child!" He broke down all at once.
Poor Bob sat down in it, and when he had thought a little and composed himself, he kissed the little face.
He was reconciled to what had happened, and went down again quite happy. They drew about the fire, and talked; the girls and mother working still.
On which," said Bob, "for he is the pleasantest-spoken gentleman you ever heard, I told him.
Heartily sorry,' he said, 'for your good wife.
If I can be of service to you in any way,' he said, giving me his card, 'that's where I live.
Now, it wasn't," cried Bob, "for the sake of anything he might be able to do for us, so much as for his kind way, that this was quite delightful.
Spirit of Tiny Tim, thy childish essence was from God! "Spectre," said Scrooge, "something informs me that our parting moment is at hand.
I know it, but I know not how.
Let me behold what I shall be, in days to come!" The Spirit stopped; the hand was pointed elsewhere. "The house is yonder," Scrooge exclaimed.
Why do you point away?" The inexorable finger underwent no change. Scrooge hastened to the window of his office, and looked in. It was an office still, but not his.
Here, then; the wretched man whose name he had now to learn, lay underneath the ground.
It was a worthy place.
Walled in by houses; overrun by grass and weeds, the growth of vegetation's death, not life; choked up with too much burying; fat with repleted appetite.
A worthy place! The Spirit stood among the graves, and pointed down to One.
He advanced towards it trembling.
The Phantom was exactly as it had been, but he dreaded that he saw new meaning in its solemn shape. "Before I draw nearer to that stone to which you point," said Scrooge, "answer me one question.
But if the courses be departed from, the ends will change.
Oh no, no!" The finger still was there. "Spirit!" he cried, tight clutching at its robe, "hear me! I am not the man I was.
I will not be the man I must have been but for this intercourse.
Why show me this, if I am past all hope!" For the first time the hand appeared to shake. "Good Spirit," he pursued, as down upon the ground he fell before it: "Your nature intercedes for me, and pities me.
Assure me that I yet may change these shadows you have shown me, by an altered life!" The kind hand trembled. "I will honour Christmas in my heart, and try to keep it all the year.
I will live in the Past, the Present, and the Future.
The Spirits of all Three shall strive within me.
I will not shut out the lessons that they teach.
Oh, tell me I may sponge away the writing on this stone!" In his agony, he caught the spectral hand.
The bed was his own, the room was his own.
Best and happiest of all, the Time before him was his own, to make amends in! "I will live in the Past, the Present, and the Future!" Scrooge repeated, as he scrambled out of bed.
Oh Jacob Marley! Heaven, and the Christmas Time be praised for this!
I say it on my knees, old Jacob; on my knees!" He was so fluttered and so glowing with his good intentions, that his broken voice would scarcely answer to his call.
They are here--I am here--the shadows of the things that would have been, may be dispelled.
I am as light as a feather, I am as happy as an angel, I am as merry as a schoolboy.
I am as giddy as a drunken man.
A merry Christmas to everybody!
A happy New Year to all the world.
There's the corner where the Ghost of Christmas Present, sat!
There's the window where I saw the wandering Spirits!
I don't know how long I've been among the Spirits.
I'd rather be a baby.
Whoop! Hallo here!" He was checked in his transports by the churches ringing out the lustiest peals he had ever heard.
Clash, clang, hammer; ding, dong, bell.
Bell, dong, ding; hammer, clang, clash!
Oh, glorious, glorious! Running to the window, he opened it, and put out his head.
No fog, no mist; clear, bright, jovial, stirring, cold; cold, piping for the blood to dance to; Golden sunlight; Heavenly sky; sweet fresh air; merry bells.
Why, CHRISTMAS DAY." "It's Christmas Day!" said Scrooge to himself.
The Spirits have done it all in one night. They can do anything they like.
Hallo, my fine fellow!" "Hallo!" returned the boy. "Do you know the Poulterer's, in the next street but one, at the corner?
Scrooge inquired. "I should hope I did," replied the lad. "An intelligent boy!" said Scrooge.
A remarkable boy! Do you know whether they've sold the prize Turkey that was hanging up there?--Not the little prize Turkey: the big one?" "What, the one as big as me?" returned the boy. "What a delightful boy!" said Scrooge.
It's a pleasure to talk to him.
Yes, my buck!" "It's hanging there now," replied the boy. "Is it?" said Scrooge.
Go and buy it." "Walk-ER!" exclaimed the boy. "No, no," said Scrooge, "I am in earnest.
Go and buy it, and tell 'em to bring it here, that I may give them the direction where to take it.
Come back with the man, and I'll give you a shilling.
Come back with him in less than five minutes and I'll give you half-a-crown!" The boy was off like a shot.
He must have had a steady hand at a trigger who could have got a shot off half so fast. "I'll send it to Bob Cratchit's!" whispered Scrooge, rubbing his hands, and splitting with a laugh.
He sha'n't know who sends it.
It's twice the size of Tiny Tim.
As he stood there, waiting his arrival, the knocker caught his eye. "I shall love it, as long as I live!" cried Scrooge, patting it with his hand.
I scarcely ever looked at it before. What an honest expression it has in its face!
It's a wonderful knocker!--Here's the Turkey!
Merry Christmas!" It was a Turkey!
He never could have stood upon his legs, that bird.
He would have snapped 'em short off in a minute, like sticks of sealing-wax. "Why, it's impossible to carry that to Camden Town," said Scrooge.
But if he had cut the end of his nose off, he would have put a piece of sticking-plaister over it, and been quite satisfied. He dressed himself "all in his best," and at last got out into the streets.
The people were by this time pouring forth, as he had seen them with the Ghost of Christmas Present; and walking with his hands behind him, Scrooge regarded every one with a delighted smile.
He looked so irresistibly pleasant, in a word, that three or four good-humoured fellows said, "Good morning, sir!
I hope you succeeded yesterday.
It was very kind of you.
A merry Christmas to you, sir!" "Mr. Scrooge?" "Yes," said Scrooge.
That is my name, and I fear it may not be pleasant to you.
Allow me to ask your pardon. And will you have the goodness"--here Scrooge whispered in his ear. "Lord bless me!" cried the gentleman, as if his breath were taken away.
My dear Mr. Scrooge, are you serious?" "If you please," said Scrooge.
Will you come and see me?" "I will!" cried the old gentleman.
And it was clear he meant to do it. "Thank'ee," said Scrooge.
I am much obliged to you. I thank you fifty times.
He had never dreamed that any walk--that anything--could give him so much happiness.
In the afternoon he turned his steps towards his nephew's house. He passed the door a dozen times, before he had the courage to go up and knock.
But he made a dash, and did it: "Is your master at home, my dear?" said Scrooge to the girl.
Very. "Yes, sir." "Where is he, my love?" said Scrooge. "He's in the dining-room, sir, along with mistress.
I'll show you up-stairs, if you please." "Thank'ee.
He knows me," said Scrooge, with his hand already on the dining-room lock.
I have come to dinner. Will you let me in, Fred?" Let him in!
It is a mercy he didn't shake his arm off. He was at home in five minutes.
Nothing could be heartier. His niece looked just the same.
So did Topper when he came.
So did the plump sister when she came.
So did every one when they came.
Wonderful party, wonderful games, wonderful unanimity, won-der-ful happiness! But he was early at the office next morning.
Oh, he was early there.
If he could only be there first, and catch Bob Cratchit coming late!
That was the thing he had set his heart upon. And he did it; yes, he did!
He was full eighteen minutes and a half behind his time.
Scrooge sat with his door wide open, that he might see him come into the Tank. His hat was off, before he opened the door; his comforter too.
He was on his stool in a jiffy; driving away with his pen, as if he were trying to overtake nine o'clock. "Hallo!" growled Scrooge, in his accustomed voice, as near as he could feign it.
What do you mean by coming here at this time of day?" "I am very sorry, sir," said Bob.
I am behind my time." "You are?" repeated Scrooge.
I think you are. Step this way, sir, if you please." "It's only once a year, sir," pleaded Bob, appearing from the Tank.
It shall not be repeated.
I was making rather merry yesterday, sir." "Now, I'll tell you what, my friend," said Scrooge, "I am not going to stand this sort of thing any longer.
A merrier Christmas, Bob, my good fellow, than I have given you, for many a year!
I'll raise your salary, and endeavour to assist your struggling family, and we will discuss your affairs this very afternoon, over a Christmas bowl of smoking bishop, Bob!
Make up the fires, and buy another coal-scuttle before you dot another i, Bob Cratchit!" Scrooge was better than his word.
He did it all, and infinitely more; and to Tiny Tim, who did NOT die, he was a second father.
He became as good a friend, as good a master, and as good a man, as the good old city knew, or any other good old city, town, or borough, in the good old world.
May that be truly said of us, and all of us!
And so, as Tiny Tim observed, God bless Us, Every One!
An Irate Neighbor CHAPTER II.
Selling in Haste and Repenting at Leisure CHAPTER III.
Mr. Harrison at Home CHAPTER IV.
A Full-fledged Schoolma'am CHAPTER VI.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men . . . and women CHAPTER VII.
The Pointing of Duty CHAPTER VIII.
Marilla Adopts Twins CHAPTER IX.
A Question of Color CHAPTER X.
Davy in Search of a Sensation CHAPTER XI.
Facts and Fancies CHAPTER XII.
A Jonah Day CHAPTER XIII.
A Golden Picnic CHAPTER XIV.
A Danger Averted CHAPTER XV.
The Beginning of Vacation CHAPTER XVI.
The Substance of Things Hoped For CHAPTER XVII.
A Chapter of Accidents CHAPTER XVIII.
An Adventure on the Tory Road CHAPTER XIX.
Just a Happy Day CHAPTER XX.
The Way It Often Happens CHAPTER XXI.
Sweet Miss Lavendar CHAPTER XXII.
Odds and Ends CHAPTER XXIII.
Miss Lavendar's Romance CHAPTER XXIV.
A Prophet in His Own Country CHAPTER XXV.
An Avonlea Scandal CHAPTER XXVI.
Around the Bend CHAPTER XXVII.
An Afternoon at the Stone House CHAPTER XXVIII.
The Prince Comes Back to the Enchanted Palace CHAPTER XXIX.
Poetry and Prose CHAPTER XXX.
The Virgil soon slipped unheeded to the ground, and Anne, her chin propped on her clasped hands, and her eyes on the splendid mass of fluffy clouds that were heaping up just over Mr. J.
His farm had been bought by a certain Mr. J.
Harrison, whose name, and the fact that he was a New Brunswick man, were all that was known about him.
But before he had been a month in Avonlea he had won the reputation of being an odd person . . . "a crank," Mrs. Rachel Lynde said.
Feminine Avonlea took its revenge by the gruesome tales it related about his house-keeping and cooking.
He had hired little John Henry Carter of White Sands and John Henry started the stories.
For one thing, there was never any stated time for meals in the Harrison establishment.
Mr. Harrison "got a bite" when he felt hungry, and if John Henry were around at the time, he came in for a share, but if he were not, he had to wait until Mr. Harrison's next hungry spell.
Then he went to work and washed them all at once in the rainwater hogshead, and left them to drain dry. Again, Mr. Harrison was "close.
I had to hold up my skirts as I walked across it." Finally, Mr. Harrison kept a parrot called Ginger.
Nobody in Avonlea had ever kept a parrot before; consequently that proceeding was considered barely respectable.
If you took John Henry Carter's word for it, never was such an unholy bird.
Mrs. Carter would have taken John Henry away at once if she had been sure she could get another place for him.
Besides, Ginger had bitten a piece right out of the back of John Henry's neck one day when he had stooped down too near the cage.
Mrs. Carter showed everybody the mark when the luckless John Henry went home on Sundays. All these things flashed through Anne's mind as Mr. Harrison stood, quite speechless with wrath apparently, before her.
That is what I'm here about, miss." "Will you explain what the trouble is?" asked Anne, in her most dignified manner.
She had been practicing it considerably of late to have it in good working order when school began; but it had no apparent effect on the irate J.
Bless my soul, trouble enough, I should think.
The trouble is, miss, that I found that Jersey cow of your aunt's in my oats again, not half an hour ago.
The third time, mark you.
I found her in last Tuesday and I found her in yesterday.
I came here and told your aunt not to let it occur again.
She has let it occur again.
I just want to see her for a minute and give her a piece of my mind . . . a piece of J.
I am very sorry that my cow should have broken into your oats . . . she is my cow and not Miss Cuthbert's . . .
Matthew gave her to me three years ago when she was a little calf and he bought her from Mr. Bell." "Sorry, miss!
Sorry isn't going to help matters any.
The jail fence couldn't keep a demon of a cow like that out.
His anger choked him up again and he could only glare speechlessly at Anne, who recovered her temper and followed up her advantage. "I can make allowance for you, Mr. Harrison, because I have an imagination.
I can easily imagine how very trying it must be to find a cow in your oats and I shall not cherish any hard feelings against you for the things you've said.
I promise you that Dolly shall never break into your oats again.
She looks pretty quiet now.
I daresay she has sickened herself on those oats.
I wish I'd sold her to Mr. Shearer when he wanted her last week, but I thought it was just as well to wait until we had the auction of the stock and let them all go together.
I believe it is true about Mr. Harrison being a crank.
Certainly there's nothing of the kindred spirit about _him_." Anne had always a weather eye open for kindred spirits. Marilla Cuthbert was driving into the yard as Anne returned from the house, and the latter flew to get tea ready.
They discussed the matter at the tea table. "I'll be glad when the auction is over," said Marilla.
It is too much responsibility having so much stock about the place and nobody but that unreliable Martin to look after them.
He has never come back yet and he promised that he would certainly be back last night if I'd give him the day off to go to his aunt's funeral.
I don't know how many aunts he has got, I am sure.
That's the fourth that's died since he hired here a year ago.
I'll be more than thankful when the crop is in and Mr. Barry takes over the farm.
We'll have to keep Dolly shut up in the pen till Martin comes, for she must be put in the back pasture and the fences there have to be fixed.
I declare, it is a world of trouble, as Rachel says.
Here's poor Mary Keith dying and what is to become of those two children of hers is more than I know.
She has a brother in British Columbia and she has written to him about them, but she hasn't heard from him yet." "What are the children like?
How old are they?" "Six past . . . they're twins." "Oh, I've always been especially interested in twins ever since Mrs. Hammond had so many," said Anne eagerly.
Are they pretty?" "Goodness, you couldn't tell . . . they were too dirty.
He has never had any bringing up you might say.
His father died when he was a baby and Mary has been sick almost ever since." "I'm always sorry for children that have no bringing up," said Anne soberly.
You know _I_ hadn't any till you took me in hand.
I hope their uncle will look after them.
Just what relation is Mrs. Keith to you?" "Mary?
It was her husband . . . he was our third cousin.
There's Mrs. Lynde coming through the yard.
I thought he looked pretty mad.
Did he make much of a rumpus?" Anne and Marilla furtively exchanged amused smiles.
Few things in Avonlea ever escaped Mrs. Lynde.
He gave Anne a piece of his mind." "I think he is a very disagreeable man," said Anne, with a resentful toss of her ruddy head. "You never said a truer word," said Mrs. Rachel solemnly.
I knew there'd be trouble when Robert Bell sold his place to a New Brunswick man, that's what.
I don't know what Avonlea is coming to, with so many strange people rushing into it.
It'll soon not be safe to go to sleep in our beds." "Why, what other strangers are coming in?" asked Marilla. "Haven't you heard?
Well, there's a family of Donnells, for one thing. They've rented Peter Sloane's old house.
Peter has hired the man to run his mill.
They belong down east and nobody knows anything about them. Then that shiftless Timothy Cotton family are going to move up from White Sands and they'll simply be a burden on the public.
He is in consumption . . . when he isn't stealing . . . and his wife is a slack-twisted creature that can't turn her hand to a thing.
She washes her dishes _sitting down_.
Mrs. George Pye has taken her husband's orphan nephew, Anthony Pye.
He'll be going to school to you, Anne, so you may expect trouble, that's what.
And you'll have another strange pupil, too.
Paul Irving is coming from the States to live with his grandmother.
You remember his father, Marilla . . .
Stephen Irving, him that jilted Lavendar Lewis over at Grafton?" "I don't think he jilted her.
There was a quarrel . . .
Stephen went off to the States and went into business with his uncle and married a Yankee.
He's never been home since, though his mother has been up to see him once or twice.
His wife died two years ago and he's sending the boy home to his mother for a spell.
He's ten years old and I don't know if he'll be a very desirable pupil.
You can never tell about those Yankees." Mrs Lynde looked upon all people who had the misfortune to be born or brought up elsewhere than in Prince Edward Island with a decided can-any-good-thing-come-out-of-Nazareth air.
They _might_ be good people, of course; but you were on the safe side in doubting it.
She had a special prejudice against "Yankees.
Steve Irving was the nicest boy that was ever raised in these parts, though some people did call him proud.
I should think Mrs. Irving would be very glad to have the child.
She has been very lonesome since her husband died." "Oh, the boy may be well enough, but he'll be different from Avonlea children," said Mrs. Rachel, as if that clinched the matter.
Mrs. Rachel's opinions concerning any person, place, or thing, were always warranted to wear.
What's this I hear about your going to start up a Village Improvement Society, Anne?" "I was just talking it over with some of the girls and boys at the last Debating Club," said Anne, flushing.
They thought it would be rather nice . . . and so do Mr. and Mrs. Allan.
Lots of villages have them now." "Well, you'll get into no end of hot water if you do.
Better leave it alone, Anne, that's what.
People don't like being improved." "Oh, we are not going to try to improve the _people_.
There are lots of things which might be done to make it prettier.
For instance, if we could coax Mr. Levi Boulter to pull down that dreadful old house on his upper farm wouldn't that be an improvement?" "It certainly would," admitted Mrs. Rachel.
That old ruin has been an eyesore to the settlement for years.
But if you Improvers can coax Levi Boulter to do anything for the public that he isn't to be paid for doing, may I be there to see and hear the process, that's what.
But there, I know you'll go ahead with it if you've set your mind on it.
You were always one to carry a thing through somehow." Something about the firm outlines of Anne's lips told that Mrs. Rachel was not far astray in this estimate.
Anne's heart was bent on forming the Improvement Society.
As for what the "improvements" were to be, nobody had any very clear idea except Anne and Gilbert.
They had talked them over and planned them out until an ideal Avonlea existed in their minds, if nowhere else. Mrs. Rachel had still another item of news. "They've given the Carmody school to a Priscilla Grant.
Didn't you go to Queen's with a girl of that name, Anne?" "Yes, indeed.
Priscilla to teach at Carmody!
It's a disgraceful looking place and we must attend to it even before we try to get Mr. Levi Boulder to pull his house down.
We must do our best and be content to go slowly at first. We can't expect to improve everything all at once.
You know that three-cornered piece of ground where the roads from Carmody and Newbridge and White Sands meet?
It's all grown over with young spruce; but wouldn't it be nice to have them all cleared out, and just leave the two or three birch trees that are on it?" "Splendid," agreed Anne gaily.
And have a rustic seat put under the birches.
I begin to see what you mean by educating public sentiment, Anne.
There's the old Boulter house now.
Did you ever see such a rookery?
And perched right close to the road too.
An old house with its windows gone always makes me think of something dead with its eyes picked out." "I think an old, deserted house is such a sad sight," said Anne dreamily.
It always seems to me to be thinking about its past and mourning for its old-time joys.
Marilla says that a large family was raised in that old house long ago, and that it was a real pretty place, with a lovely garden and roses climbing all over it.
It was full of little children and laughter and songs; and now it is empty, and nothing ever wanders through it but the wind.
How lonely and sorrowful it must feel!
Don't you remember how cross mother and Marilla were when we imagined ghosts into the Haunted Wood?
To this day I can't go through that bush comfortably after dark; and if I began imagining such things about the old Boulter house I'd be frightened to pass it too.
Besides, those children aren't dead.
They're all grown up and doing well . . . and one of them is a butcher.
And flowers and songs couldn't have ghosts anyhow." Anne smothered a little sigh.
She loved Diana dearly and they had always been good comrades.
But she had long ago learned that when she wandered into the realm of fancy she must go alone.
Well, she'll never get that cow out by herself.
I must go and help her, of course." Anne was charging through the grain like a mad thing.
Diana hopped briskly down, tied the horse securely to a post, turned the skirt of her pretty gingham dress over her shoulders, mounted the fence, and started in pursuit of her frantic friend.
She could run faster than Anne, who was hampered by her clinging and drenched skirt, and soon overtook her.
Behind them they left a trail that would break Mr. Harrison's heart when he should see it. "Anne, for mercy's sake, stop," panted poor Diana.
I'm right out of breath and you are wet to the skin." "I must . . . get . . . that cow . . . out . . . before . . .
Mr. Harrison . . . sees her," gasped Anne.
No sooner had the two breathless girls got near her than she turned and bolted squarely for the opposite corner of the field. "Head her off," screamed Anne.
Run, Diana, run." Diana did run.
Anne tried to, and the wicked Jersey went around the field as if she were possessed.
Privately, Diana thought she was.
It was fully ten minutes before they headed her off and drove her through the corner gap into the Cuthbert lane. There is no denying that Anne was in anything but an angelic temper at that precise moment.
You may have her this very minute." "Done.
I'll give you twenty for her as I offered before, and Jim here can drive her right over to Carmody.
She'll go to town with the rest of the shipment this evening.
Dolly was my own cow and it isn't likely she'd bring more than twenty dollars at the auction.
But oh dear, if Mr. Harrison sees that grain he will know she has been in again, and after my giving him my word of honor that I'd never let it happen!
Well, it has taught me a lesson not to give my word of honor about cows.
I don't see how she got out of the pen, though.
She must have broken some of the boards off." "I didn't think of looking," said Anne, "but I'll go and see now. Martin has never come back yet.
Perhaps some more of his aunts have died.
I think it's something like Mr. Peter Sloane and the octogenarians.
The other evening Mrs. Sloane was reading a newspaper and she said to Mr. Sloane, 'I see here that another octogenarian has just died.
What is an octogenarian, Peter?
And Mr. Sloane said he didn't know, but they must be very sickly creatures, for you never heard tell of them but they were dying.
That's the way with Martin's aunts." "Martin's just like all the rest of those French," said Marilla in disgust.
You can't depend on them for a day.
Marilla was looking over Anne's Carmody purchases when she heard a shrill shriek in the barnyard.
A minute later Anne dashed into the kitchen, wringing her hands. "Anne Shirley, what's the matter now?" "Oh, Marilla, whatever shall I do?
And it's all my fault.
Oh, will I _ever_ learn to stop and reflect a little before doing reckless things?
Dolly is out in the milking pen this very minute." "Anne Shirley, are you dreaming?" "I only wish I were.
There's no dream about it, though it's very like a nightmare.
And Mr. Harrison's cow is in Charlottetown by this time.
Oh, Marilla, I thought I'd finished getting into scrapes, and here I am in the very worst one I ever was in in my life.
What can I do?" "Do?
There's nothing to do, child, except go and see Mr. Harrison about it.
We can offer him our Jersey in exchange if he doesn't want to take the money.
She is just as good as his." "I'm sure he'll be awfully cross and disagreeable about it, though," moaned Anne. "I daresay he will.
He seems to be an irritable sort of a man.
I'll go and explain to him if you like." "No, indeed, I'm not as mean as that," exclaimed Anne.
This is all my fault and I'm certainly not going to let you take my punishment.
I'll go myself and I'll go at once.
The sooner it's over the better, for it will be terribly humiliating." Poor Anne got her hat and her twenty dollars and was passing out when she happened to glance through the open pantry door.
On the table reposed a nut cake which she had baked that morning . . . a particularly toothsome concoction iced with pink icing and adorned with walnuts.
Anne had intended it for Friday evening, when the youth of Avonlea were to meet at Green Gables to organize the Improvement Society.
But what were they compared to the justly offended Mr. Harrison?
Anne thought that cake ought to soften the heart of any man, especially one who had to do his own cooking, and she promptly popped it into a box.
When he realized who was coming up the path he sprang suddenly to his feet, bolted into the house, and shut the door.
This was merely the uncomfortable result of his surprise, mingled with a good deal of shame over his outburst of temper the day before.
He's . . . he's always talking nonsense.
I got him from my brother who was a sailor.
Sailors don't always use the choicest language, and parrots are very imitative birds." "So I should think," said poor Anne, the remembrance of her errand quelling her resentment.
She couldn't afford to snub Mr. Harrison under the circumstances, that was certain.
When you had just sold a man's Jersey cow offhand, without his knowledge or consent you must not mind if his parrot repeated uncomplimentary things.
Nevertheless, the "redheaded snippet" was not quite so meek as she might otherwise have been. "I've come to confess something to you, Mr. Harrison," she said resolutely.
It's . . . it's about . . . that Jersey cow." "Bless my soul," exclaimed Mr. Harrison nervously, "has she gone and broken into my oats again?
Well, never mind . . . never mind if she has.
It's no difference . . . none at all, I . . .
I was too hasty yesterday, that's a fact.
Never mind if she has." "Oh, if it were only that," sighed Anne.
But it's ten times worse.
I don't . . ." "Bless my soul, do you mean to say she's got into my wheat?" "No . . . no . . . not the wheat.
But . . ." "Then it's the cabbages!
She's broken into my cabbages that I was raising for Exhibition, hey?" "It's _not_ the cabbages, Mr. Harrison.
I'll tell you everything . . . that is what I came for-but please don't interrupt me.
It makes me so nervous.
Just let me tell my story and don't say anything till I get through-and then no doubt you'll say plenty," Anne concluded, but in thought only. "I won't say another word," said Mr. Harrison, and he didn't.
But Ginger was not bound by any contract of silence and kept ejaculating, "Redheaded snippet" at intervals until Anne felt quite wild. "I shut my Jersey cow up in our pen yesterday.
This morning I went to Carmody and when I came back I saw a Jersey cow in your oats.
Diana and I chased her out and you can't imagine what a hard time we had.
I was so dreadfully wet and tired and vexed-and Mr. Shearer came by that very minute and offered to buy the cow.
I sold her to him on the spot for twenty dollars.
It was wrong of me.
I should have waited and consulted Marilla, of course.
But I'm dreadfully given to doing things without thinking-everybody who knows me will tell you that.
Ginger shrieked, swore, and otherwise conducted himself in keeping with his reputation, but finding himself left alone, relapsed into sulky silence. "Excuse me and go on," said Mr. Harrison, sitting down again.
My brother the sailor never taught that bird any manners." "I went home and after tea I went out to the milking pen.
Mr. Harrison," . . .
Anne leaned forward, clasping her hands with her old childish gesture, while her big gray eyes gazed imploringly into Mr. Harrison's embarrassed face . . .
I found my cow still shut up in the pen.
It was _your_ cow I had sold to Mr. Shearer." "Bless my soul," exclaimed Mr. Harrison, in blank amazement at this unlooked-for conclusion.
What a _very_ extraordinary thing!" "Oh, it isn't in the least extraordinary that I should be getting myself and other people into scrapes," said Anne mournfully.
You might suppose I'd have grown out of it by this time . . . I'll be seventeen next March . . . but it seems that I haven't.
Mr. Harrison, is it too much to hope that you'll forgive me?
I'm afraid it's too late to get your cow back, but here is the money for her . . . or you can have mine in exchange if you'd rather.
She's a very good cow.
And I can't express how sorry I am for it all." "Tut, tut," said Mr. Harrison briskly, "don't say another word about it, miss. It's of no consequence . . . no consequence whatever. Accidents will happen.
I'm too hasty myself sometimes, miss . . . far too hasty.
But I can't help speaking out just what I think and folks must take me as they find me.
If that cow had been in my cabbages now . . . but never mind, she wasn't, so it's all right.
I think I'd rather have your cow in exchange, since you want to be rid of her." "Oh, thank you, Mr. Harrison.
I'm so glad you are not vexed.
I was afraid you would be." "And I suppose you were scared to death to come here and tell me, after the fuss I made yesterday, hey?
Don't you tell me I'm like that old gossip," said Mr. Harrison irritably.
I'm not . . . not a bit.
What have you got in that box?" "A cake," said Anne archly.
In her relief at Mr. Harrison's unexpected amiability her spirits soared upward feather-light.
I brought it over for you . . .
I thought perhaps you didn't have cake very often." "I don't, that's a fact, and I'm mighty fond of it, too.
I'm much obliged to you.
It looks good on top.
I hope it's good all the way through." "It is," said Anne, gaily confident.
I have made cakes in my time that were _not_, as Mrs. Allan could tell you, but this one is all right.
I made it for the Improvement Society, but I can make another for them." "Well, I'll tell you what, miss, you must help me eat it.
I'll put the kettle on and we'll have a cup of tea.
How will that do?" "Will you let me make the tea?" said Anne dubiously. Mr. Harrison chuckled. "I see you haven't much confidence in my ability to make tea.
You're wrong . . .
I can brew up as good a jorum of tea as you ever drank.
Fortunately it rained last Sunday, so there's plenty of clean dishes." Anne hopped briskly up and went to work.
She washed the teapot in several waters before she put the tea to steep.
Then she swept the stove and set the table, bringing the dishes out of the pantry.
The state of that pantry horrified Anne, but she wisely said nothing.
Mr. Harrison told her where to find the bread and butter and a can of peaches.
Anne adorned the table with a bouquet from the garden and shut her eyes to the stains on the tablecloth.
Soon the tea was ready and Anne found herself sitting opposite Mr. Harrison at his own table, pouring his tea for him, and chatting freely to him about her school and friends and plans.
She could hardly believe the evidence of her senses. Mr. Harrison had brought Ginger back, averring that the poor bird would be lonesome; and Anne, feeling that she could forgive everybody and everything, offered him a walnut.
But Ginger's feelings had been grievously hurt and he rejected all overtures of friendship.
Maybe it had some reference to his temper.
I think a lot of that bird though . . . you'd be surprised if you knew how much.
He has his faults of course.
That bird has cost me a good deal one way and another.
Some people object to his swearing habits but he can't be broken of them.
I've tried . . . other people have tried.
Some folks have prejudices against parrots.
Ginger's a lot of company to me.
Anne, however, was beginning to like the queer, fussy, fidgety little man, and before the meal was over they were quite good friends. Mr. Harrison found out about the Improvement Society and was disposed to approve of it. "That's right.
There's lots of room for improvement in this settlement . . . and in the people too." "Oh, I don't know," flashed Anne.
To herself, or to her particular cronies, she might admit that there were some small imperfections, easily removable, in Avonlea and its inhabitants.
But to hear a practical outsider like Mr. Harrison saying it was an entirely different thing.
I think Avonlea is a lovely place; and the people in it are very nice, too." "I guess you've got a spice of temper," commented Mr. Harrison, surveying the flushed cheeks and indignant eyes opposite him.
It goes with hair like yours, I reckon.
Avonlea is a pretty decent place or I wouldn't have located here; but I suppose even you will admit that it has _some_ faults?" "I like it all the better for them," said loyal Anne.
I don't like places or people either that haven't any faults.
I think a truly perfect person would be very uninteresting.
Mrs. Milton White says she never met a perfect person, but she's heard enough about one . . . her husband's first wife.
Tisn't far and folks ought to be neighborly.
I'm kind of interested in that society of yours.
Seems to me there'll be some fun in it.
Who are you going to tackle first?" "We are not going to meddle with _people_ . . . it is only _places_ we mean to improve," said Anne, in a dignified tone.
Mrs. Lynde was complaining the other day that it wasn't much of a world.
She said whenever you looked forward to anything pleasant you were sure to be more or less disappointed . . . perhaps that is true.
But there is a good side to it too.
The bad things don't always come up to your expectations either . . . they nearly always turn out ever so much better than you think.
I looked forward to a dreadfully unpleasant experience when I went over to Mr. Harrison's tonight; and instead he was quite kind and I had almost a nice time.
Jane would go to Newbridge and Gilbert to White Sands. "You both have the advantage of me," sighed Anne.
You're going to teach children who don't know you, but I have to teach my own old schoolmates, and Mrs. Lynde says she's afraid they won't respect me as they would a stranger unless I'm very cross from the first.
But I don't believe a teacher should be cross.
Oh, it seems to me such a responsibility!" "I guess we'll get on all right," said Jane comfortably.
Jane was not troubled by any aspirations to be an influence for good.
She meant to earn her salary fairly, please the trustees, and get her name on the School Inspector's roll of honor.
Further ambitions Jane had none.
The main thing will be to keep order and a teacher has to be a little cross to do that.
If my pupils won't do as I tell them I shall punish them." "How?" "Give them a good whipping, of course." "Oh, Jane, you wouldn't," cried Anne, shocked.
Jane, you _couldn't!_" "Indeed, I could and would, if they deserved it," said Jane decidedly. "I could _never_ whip a child," said Anne with equal decision.
I don't believe in it _at all_.
Miss Stacy never whipped any of us and she had perfect order; and Mr. Phillips was always whipping and he had no order at all.
No, if I can't get along without whipping I shall not try to teach school.
There are better ways of managing.
I shall try to win my pupils' affections and then they will _want_ to do what I tell them." "But suppose they don't?" said practical Jane. "I wouldn't whip them anyhow.
I'm sure it wouldn't do any good.
Oh, don't whip your pupils, Jane dear, no matter what they do." "What do you think about it, Gilbert?" demanded Jane.
I don't believe in whipping children _much_.
I think, as you say, Anne, that there are better ways of managing as a rule, and that corporal punishment should be a last resort.
But on the other hand, as Jane says, I believe there is an occasional child who can't be influenced in any other way and who, in short, needs a whipping and would be improved by it.
Corporal punishment as a last resort is to be my rule." Gilbert, having tried to please both sides, succeeded, as is usual and eminently right, in pleasing neither.
Jane tossed her head. "I'll whip my pupils when they're naughty.
It's the shortest and easiest way of convincing them." Anne gave Gilbert a disappointed glance. "I shall never whip a child," she repeated firmly.
I feel sure it isn't either right or necessary." "Suppose a boy sauced you back when you told him to do something?" said Jane. "I'd keep him in after school and talk kindly and firmly to him," said Anne.
There is some good in every person if you can find it.
It is a teacher's duty to find and develop it.
That is what our School Management professor at Queen's told us, you know.
Do you suppose you could find any good in a child by whipping him?
She walked slowly, enjoying the sweetness of wood and field and the starry summer twilight, and thinking soberly about the new duties she was to take up on the morrow.
I'll run over and have a chat with Mr. Harrison instead." This was not the first time Anne had run over and chatted with Mr. Harrison since the notable affair of the Jersey cow.
She had been there several evenings and Mr. Harrison and she were very good friends, although there were times and seasons when Anne found the outspokenness on which he prided himself rather trying.
Ginger still continued to regard her with suspicion, and never failed to greet her sarcastically as "redheaded snippet.
Mr. Harrison had tried vainly to break him of the habit by jumping excitedly up whenever he saw Anne coming and exclaiming, "Bless my soul, here's that pretty little girl again," or something equally flattering.
But Ginger saw through the scheme and scorned it. Anne was never to know how many compliments Mr. Harrison paid her behind her back.
She was an excellent target for teasing because she always took things so seriously.
I shall never have a switch in my school, Mr. Harrison.
Of course, I shall have to have a pointer, but I shall use it for pointing _only_." "So you mean to strap them instead?
Well, I don't know but you're right.
A switch stings more at the time but the strap smarts longer, that's a fact." "I shall not use anything of the sort.
Spare the rod and spoil the child.
When I went to school the master whipped me regular every day because he said if I wasn't in mischief just then I was plotting it." "Methods have changed since your schooldays, Mr. Harrison." "But human nature hasn't.
Mark my words, you'll never manage the young fry unless you keep a rod in pickle for them.
Anne sipped it patiently, although she could not imagine what good ginger tea would do.
The preceding teacher had trained the children to be in their places at her arrival, and when Anne entered the schoolroom she was confronted by prim rows of "shining morning faces" and bright, inquisitive eyes.
She had revised and improved it painstakingly, and then she had learned it off by heart.
It was a very good speech and had some very fine ideas in it, especially about mutual help and earnest striving after knowledge.
While the children read their verses Anne marshalled her shaky wits into order and looked over the array of little pilgrims to the Grownup Land. Most of them were, of course, quite well known to her.
Her own classmates had passed out in the preceding year but the rest had all gone to school with her, excepting the primer class and ten newcomers to Avonlea.
Anne secretly felt more interest in these ten than in those whose possibilities were already fairly well mapped out to her.
To be sure, they might be just as commonplace as the rest; but on the other hand there _might_ be a genius among them.
It was a thrilling idea. Sitting by himself at a corner desk was Anthony Pye.
He had a dark, sullen little face, and was staring at Anne with a hostile expression in his black eyes.
Anne wondered what sort of mother the child had, to send her to school dressed as she was.
She wore a faded pink silk dress, trimmed with a great deal of cotton lace, soiled white kid slippers, and silk stockings.
Her sandy hair was tortured into innumerable kinky and unnatural curls, surmounted by a flamboyant bow of pink ribbon bigger than her head.
She knew this must be Paul Irving and that Mrs. Rachel Lynde had been right for once when she prophesied that he would be unlike the Avonlea children.
Best of all, it was involuntary, born of no external effort or motive, but simply the outflashing of a hidden personality, rare and fine and sweet.
With a quick interchange of smiles Anne and Paul were fast friends forever before a word had passed between them. The day went by like a dream.
Anne could never clearly recall it afterwards.
It almost seemed as if it were not she who was teaching but somebody else.
She heard classes and worked sums and set copies mechanically.
The children behaved quite well; only two cases of discipline occurred.
Morley Andrews was caught driving a pair of trained crickets in the aisle.
Anne stood Morley on the platform for an hour and . . . which Morley felt much more keenly . . . confiscated his crickets.
Anne kept Anthony in at recess and talked to him about what was expected of gentlemen, admonishing him that they never poured water down ladies' necks.
She wanted all her boys to be gentlemen, she said.
Her little lecture was quite kind and touching; but unfortunately Anthony remained absolutely untouched.
He listened to her in silence, with the same sullen expression, and whistled scornfully as he went out.
Anne sighed; and then cheered herself up by remembering that winning a Pye's affections, like the building of Rome, wasn't the work of a day.
Her head ached and she felt woefully discouraged.
There was no real reason for discouragement, since nothing very dreadful had occurred; but Anne was very tired and inclined to believe that she would never learn to like teaching.
And how terrible it would be to be doing something you didn't like every day for . . . well, say forty years.
Anne was of two minds whether to have her cry out then and there, or wait till she was safely in her own white room at home.
She looked like a head-on collision between a fashion plate and a nightmare." The newcomer was gorgeously arrayed in a pale blue summer silk, puffed, frilled, and shirred wherever puff, frill, or shirring could possibly be placed.
Her head was surmounted by a huge white chiffon hat, bedecked with three long but rather stringy ostrich feathers.
A veil of pink chiffon, lavishly sprinkled with huge black dots, hung like a flounce from the hat brim to her shoulders and floated off in two airy streamers behind her.
She wore all the jewelry that could be crowded on one small woman, and a very strong odor of perfume attended her. "I am Mrs. Don_nell_ . . .
Don_nell_," announced this vision, "and I have come in to see you about something Clarice Almira told me when she came home to dinner today.
It annoyed me _excessively_." "I'm sorry," faltered Anne, vainly trying to recollect any incident of the morning connected with the Donnell children. "Clarice Almira told me that you pronounced our name _Don_nell.
Now, Miss Shirley, the correct pronunciation of our name is Don_nell_ . . . accent on the last syllable.
I _hope_ you'll remember this in future." "I'll try to," gasped Anne, choking back a wild desire to laugh.
I know by experience that it's very unpleasant to have one's name _spelled_ wrong and I suppose it must be even worse to have it pronounced wrong." "Certainly it is.
And Clarice Almira also informed me that you call my son Jacob." "He told me his name was Jacob," protested Anne. "I might have expected that," said Mrs. H.
Don_nell_, in a tone which implied that gratitude in children was not to be looked for in this degenerate age.
That boy has such plebeian tastes, Miss Shirley. When he was born I wanted to call him St. Clair . . . it sounds _so_ aristocratic, doesn't it?
But his father insisted he should be called Jacob after his uncle.
I yielded, because Uncle Jacob was a rich old bachelor.
And what do you think, Miss Shirley?
When our innocent boy was five years old Uncle Jacob actually went and got married and now he has three boys of his own.
Did you ever hear of such ingratitude?
The moment the invitation to the wedding . . . for he had the impertinence to send us an invitation, Miss Shirley . . . came to the house I said, 'No more Jacobs for me, thank you.
From that day I called my son St. Clair and St. Clair I am determined he shall be called.
His father obstinately continues to call him Jacob, and the boy himself has a perfectly unaccountable preference for the vulgar name.
But St. Clair he is and St. Clair he shall remain.
You will kindly remember this, Miss Shirley, will you not? _Thank_ you.
I told Clarice Almira that I was sure it was only a misunderstanding and that a word would set it right.
Don_nell_. . . accent on the last syllable . . . and St. Clair . . . on _no_ account Jacob.
You'll remember? _Thank_ you." When Mrs. H.
Don_nell_ had skimmed away Anne locked the school door and went home.
At the foot of the hill she found Paul Irving by the Birch Path.
I like you, teacher." "You darling," said Anne, taking the fragrant spikes.
As if Paul's words had been a spell of magic, discouragement and weariness passed from her spirit, and hope upwelled in her heart like a dancing fountain.
She went through the Birch Path light-footedly, attended by the sweetness of her orchids as by a benediction. "Well, how did you get along?
Marilla wanted to know. "Ask me that a month later and I may be able to tell you.
I can't now . . .
I don't know myself . . .
My thoughts feel as if they had been all stirred up until they were thick and muddy.
The only thing I feel really sure of having accomplished today is that I taught Cliffie Wright that A is A.
He never knew it before.
Isn't it something to have started a soul along a path that may end in Shakespeare and Paradise Lost?" Mrs. Lynde came up later on with more encouragement.
That good lady had waylaid the schoolchildren at her gate and demanded of them how they liked their new teacher. "And every one of them said they liked you splendid, Anne, except Anthony Pye.
I must admit he didn't.
He said you 'weren't any good, just like all girl teachers.
There's the Pye leaven for you.
But never mind." "I'm not going to mind," said Anne quietly, "and I'm going to make Anthony Pye like me yet.
Patience and kindness will surely win him." "Well, you can never tell about a Pye," said Mrs. Rachel cautiously. "They go by contraries, like dreams, often as not.
As for that _Don_nell woman, she'll get no Don_nell_ing from me, I can assure you. The name is _Don_nell and always has been.
The woman is crazy, that's what.
She has a pug dog she calls Queenie and it has its meals at the table along with the family, eating off a china plate.
I'd be afraid of a judgment if I was her.
The air has magic in it.
Look at the purple in the cup of the harvest valley, Diana.
And oh, do smell the dying fir!
It's coming up from that little sunny hollow where Mr. Eben Wright has been cutting fence poles.
Bliss is it on such a day to be alive; but to smell dying fir is very heaven.
That's two thirds Wordsworth and one third Anne Shirley.
It doesn't seem possible that there should be dying fir in heaven, does it?
And yet it doesn't seem to me that heaven would be quite perfect if you couldn't get a whiff of dead fir as you went through its woods.
Perhaps we'll have the odor there without the death.
Yes, I think that will be the way.
That delicious aroma must be the souls of the firs . . . and of course it will be just souls in heaven." "Trees haven't souls," said practical Diana, "but the smell of dead fir is certainly lovely.
I'm going to make a cushion and fill it with fir needles.
You'd better make one too, Anne." "I think I shall . . . and use it for my naps.
I'd be certain to dream I was a dryad or a woodnymph then.
Why on earth did you offer to canvass this road, Anne? Almost all the cranks in Avonlea live along it, and we'll probably be treated as if we were begging for ourselves.
It's the very worst road of all." "That is why I chose it.
Of course Gilbert and Fred would have taken this road if we had asked them.
But you see, Diana, I feel myself responsible for the A.V.I.S., since I was the first to suggest it, and it seems to me that I ought to do the most disagreeable things.
I'm sorry on your account; but you needn't say a word at the cranky places. I'll do all the talking . . .
So she is halting between two opinions and only success will justify us in Mrs. Lynde's eyes.
Priscilla is going to write a paper for our next Improvement meeting, and I expect it will be good, for her aunt is such a clever writer and no doubt it runs in the family.
I shall never forget the thrill it gave me when I found out that Mrs. Charlotte E.
It seemed so wonderful that I was a friend of the girl whose aunt wrote 'Edgewood Days' and 'The Rosebud Garden.'" "Where does Mrs. Morgan live?" "In Toronto.
And Priscilla says she is coming to the Island for a visit next summer, and if it is possible Priscilla is going to arrange to have us meet her.
That seems almost too good to be true-but it's something pleasant to imagine after you go to bed." The Avonlea Village Improvement Society was an organized fact.
Gilbert Blythe was president, Fred Wright vice-president, Anne Shirley secretary, and Diana Barry treasurer.
The "Improvers," as they were promptly christened, were to meet once a fortnight at the homes of the members.
Mr. Elisha Wright was reported to have said that a more appropriate name for the organization would be Courting Club.
Mrs. Hiram Sloane declared she had heard the Improvers meant to plough up all the roadsides and set them out with geraniums.
Mr. Levi Boulter warned his neighbors that the Improvers would insist that everybody pull down his house and rebuild it after plans approved by the society.
Mr. James Spencer sent them word that he wished they would kindly shovel down the church hill.
Eben Wright told Anne that he wished the Improvers could induce old Josiah Sloane to keep his whiskers trimmed.
Mr. Lawrence Bell said he would whitewash his barns if nothing else would please them but he would _not_ hang lace curtains in the cowstable windows.
At the second meeting, in the Barry parlor, Oliver Sloane moved that they start a subscription to re-shingle and paint the hall; Julia Bell seconded it, with an uneasy feeling that she was doing something not exactly ladylike.
Gilbert put the motion, it was carried unanimously, and Anne gravely recorded it in her minutes.
The next thing was to appoint a committee, and Gertie Pye, determined not to let Julia Bell carry off all the laurels, boldly moved that Miss Jane Andrews be chairman of said committee.
This motion being also duly seconded and carried, Jane returned the compliment by appointing Gertie on the committee, along with Gilbert, Anne, Diana, and Fred Wright.
Miss Eliza was one of those people who give you the impression that life is indeed a vale of tears, and that a smile, never to speak of a laugh, is a waste of nervous energy truly reprehensible.
The Andrew girls had been "girls" for fifty odd years and seemed likely to remain girls to the end of their earthly pilgrimage.
Catherine, it was said, had not entirely given up hope, but Eliza, who was born a pessimist, had never had any.
They lived in a little brown house built in a sunny corner scooped out of Mark Andrew's beech woods.
Eliza listened with a frown and Catherine with a smile, as the girls explained their errand.
This world is getting worse every day." "I think it's getting better," said Catherine firmly. "_You_ think!
Miss Eliza's voice expressed the utmost contempt.
It doesn't signify what you _think_, Catherine Andrews.
Facts is facts." "Well, I always like to look on the bright side, Eliza." "There isn't any bright side." "Oh, indeed there is," cried Anne, who couldn't endure such heresy in silence.
Why, there are ever so many bright sides, Miss Andrews.
It's really a beautiful world." "You won't have such a high opinion of it when you've lived as long in it as I have," retorted Miss Eliza sourly, "and you won't be so enthusiastic about improving it either.
How is your mother, Diana?
Dear me, but she has failed of late.
She looks terrible run down.
I wouldn't have much hope if I was her.
It's best to be prepared for the worst." "But oughtn't we be prepared for the best too?" pleaded Anne.
It's just as likely to happen as the worst." "Not in my experience, and I've fifty-seven years to set against your sixteen," retorted Eliza.
As they rounded the curve below the beech wood a plump figure came speeding over Mr. Andrews' pasture, waving to them excitedly.
It was Catherine Andrews and she was so out of breath that she could hardly speak, but she thrust a couple of quarters into Anne's hand. "That's my contribution to painting the hall," she gasped.
I'd like to give you a dollar but I don't dare take more from my egg money for Eliza would find it out if I did.
I'm real interested in your society and I believe you're going to do a lot of good.
I _have_ to be, living with Eliza.
I must hurry back before she misses me . . . she thinks I'm feeding the hens.
I hope you'll have good luck canvassing, and don't be cast down over what Eliza said.
The world _is_ getting better . . . it certainly is." The next house was Daniel Blair's. "Now, it all depends on whether his wife is home or not," said Diana, as they jolted along a deep-rutted lane.
If she is we won't get a cent.
Everybody says Dan Blair doesn't dare have his hair cut without asking her permission; and it's certain she's very close, to state it moderately.
She says she has to be just before she's generous.
But Mrs. Lynde says she's so much 'before' that generosity never catches up with her at all." Anne related their experience at the Blair place to Marilla that evening. "We tied the horse and then rapped at the kitchen door.
Nobody came but the door was open and we could hear somebody in the pantry, going on dreadfully.
We couldn't make out the words but Diana says she knows they were swearing by the sound of them.
I can't get this durned thing off,' he said, 'for the strings are tied in a hard knot and I can't bust 'em, so you'll have to excuse me, ladies.
We begged him not to mention it and went in and sat down.
Oh, not at all,' said Mr. Blair, trying to smile . . . you know he is always very polite . . .
I'm a little busy . . . getting ready to bake a cake as it were.
My wife got a telegram today that her sister from Montreal is coming tonight and she's gone to the train to meet her and left orders for me to make a cake for tea.
She writ out the recipe and told me what to do but I've clean forgot half the directions already.
And it says, 'flavor according to taste.
And what if my taste doesn't happen to be other people's taste?
Would a tablespoon of vanilla be enough for a small layer cake?" "I felt sorrier than ever for the poor man.
He didn't seem to be in his proper sphere at all.
I had heard of henpecked husbands and now I felt that I saw one.
It was on my lips to say, 'Mr. Blair, if you'll give us a subscription for the hall I'll mix up your cake for you.
But I suddenly thought it wouldn't be neighborly to drive too sharp a bargain with a fellow creature in distress.
So I offered to mix the cake for him without any conditions at all.
He just jumped at my offer.
He said he'd been used to making his own bread before he was married but he feared cake was beyond him, and yet he hated to disappoint his wife.
He got me another apron, and Diana beat the eggs and I mixed the cake.
Mr. Blair ran about and got us the materials.
He had forgotten all about his apron and when he ran it streamed out behind him and Diana said she thought she would die to see it.
He said he could bake the cake all right . . . he was used to that . . . and then he asked for our list and he put down four dollars.
So you see we were rewarded.
But even if he hadn't given a cent I'd always feel that we had done a truly Christian act in helping him." Theodore White's was the next stopping place.
Neither Anne nor Diana had ever been there before, and they had only a very slight acquaintance with Mrs. Theodore, who was not given to hospitality. Should they go to the back or front door?
While they held a whispered consultation Mrs. Theodore appeared at the front door with an armful of newspapers.
I've just swept the house all over and I can't have any more dust tracked in. The path's been real muddy since the rain yesterday." "Don't you dare laugh," warned Anne in a whisper, as they marched along the newspapers.
Mrs. White heard them politely, interrupting only twice, once to chase out an adventurous fly, and once to pick up a tiny wisp of grass that had fallen on the carpet from Anne's dress.
Anne felt wretchedly guilty; but Mrs. White subscribed two dollars and paid the money down . . . "to prevent us from having to go back for it," Diana said when they got away.
It would be dreadful beyond words for them if she had." At the Spencers' Mrs. Isabella Spencer made them miserable by saying something ill-natured about everyone in Avonlea.
Mr. Thomas Boulter refused to give anything because the hall, when it had been built, twenty years before, hadn't been built on the site he recommended.
When they drove into the yard they saw two faces peering at them through the porch window.
But although they rapped and waited patiently and persistently nobody came to the door.
Two decidedly ruffled and indignant girls drove away from Simon Fletcher's.
Even Anne admitted that she was beginning to feel discouraged.
But the tide turned after that.
Several Sloane homesteads came next, where they got liberal subscriptions, and from that to the end they fared well, with only an occasional snub.
Their last place of call was at Robert Dickson's by the pond bridge.
He's the proudest man in Avonlea this minute.
There's a brand new boy there . . . and after seven girls that's quite an event, I can tell you.
Anne pricked up her ears, and when they drove away she said. "I'm going straight to Lorenzo White's." "But he lives on the White Sands road and it's quite a distance out of our way," protested Diana.
Gilbert and Fred will canvass him." "They are not going around until next Saturday and it will be too late by then," said Anne firmly.
The novelty will be worn off.
Lorenzo White is dreadfully mean but he will subscribe to _anything_ just now. We mustn't let such a golden opportunity slip, Diana.
The result justified Anne's foresight.
Mr. White met them in the yard, beaming like the sun upon an Easter day.
When Anne asked for a subscription he agreed enthusiastically. "Certain, certain.
Just put me down for a dollar more than the highest subscription you've got." "That will be five dollars . . .
Mr. Daniel Blair put down four," said Anne, half afraid.
But Lorenzo did not flinch. "Five it is . . . and here's the money on the spot.
Now, I want you to come into the house.
There's something in there worth seeing . . . something very few people have seen as yet.
There always is about a baby." The baby _was_ pretty, however, and Mr. White felt that he got his five dollars' worth of the girls' honest delight over the plump little newcomer.
I was just trying to write out some of my thoughts, as Professor Hamilton advised me, but I couldn't get them to please me.
They seem so still and foolish directly they're written down on white paper with black ink.
Fancies are like shadows . . . you can't cage them, they're such wayward, dancing things.
But perhaps I'll learn the secret some day if I keep on trying.
I haven't a great many spare moments, you know.
By the time I finish correcting school exercises and compositions, I don't always feel like writing any of my own." "You are getting on splendidly in school, Anne.
All the children like you," said Gilbert, sitting down on the stone step. "No, not all.
Anthony Pye doesn't and _won't_ like me.
What is worse, he doesn't respect me . . . no, he doesn't.
He simply holds me in contempt and I don't mind confessing to you that it worries me miserably.
It isn't that he is so very bad . . . he is only rather mischievous, but no worse than some of the others.
He seldom disobeys me; but he obeys with a scornful air of toleration as if it wasn't worthwhile disputing the point or he would . . . and it has a bad effect on the others.
I've tried every way to win him but I'm beginning to fear I never shall.
I want to, for he's rather a cute little lad, if he _is_ a Pye, and I could like him if he'd let me." "Probably it's merely the effect of what he hears at home." "Not altogether.
Anthony is an independent little chap and makes up his own mind about things.
He has always gone to men before and he says girl teachers are no good.
Well, we'll see what patience and kindness will do.
I like overcoming difficulties and teaching is really very interesting work.
Paul Irving makes up for all that is lacking in the others.
That child is a perfect darling, Gilbert, and a genius into the bargain.
I'm persuaded the world will hear of him some day," concluded Anne in a tone of conviction. "I like teaching, too," said Gilbert.
It's good training, for one thing.
Why, Anne, I've learned more in the weeks I've been teaching the young ideas of White Sands than I learned in all the years I went to school myself.
We all seem to be getting on pretty well.
Why is it that they never seem to think it a duty to tell you the pleasant things they hear about you?
If Prillie would spend less time making eyes at the boys over her slate she might do better.
So I kept him in after school one night and talked kindly to him.
I told him his mother wished me to call him St. Clair and I couldn't go against her wishes.
Of course, I had to rebuke him again for using such shocking language.
Since then _I_ call him St. Clair and the boys call him Jake and all goes smoothly.
I want to do my share of honest, real work in the world, Anne . . . add a little to the sum of human knowledge that all the good men have been accumulating since it began.
The folks who lived before me have done so much for me that I want to show my gratitude by doing something for the folks who will live after me.
It seems to me that is the only way a fellow can get square with his obligations to the race." "I'd like to add some beauty to life," said Anne dreamily.
Moody Spurgeon came home from Queen's today for Sunday and he was to bring me out a book Professor Boyd is lending me." "And I must get Marilla's tea.
But Marilla sank into her chair with a deep sigh. "Are your eyes troubling you?
Does your head ache?" queried Anne anxiously. "No. I'm only tired . . . and worried.
It's about Mary and those children . . .
Mary is worse . . . she can't last much longer.
And as for the twins, _I_ don't know what is to become of them." "Hasn't their uncle been heard from?" "Yes, Mary had a letter from him.
He's working in a lumber camp and 'shacking it,' whatever that means.
Anyway, he says he can't possibly take the children till the spring.
He expects to be married then and will have a home to take them to; but he says she must get some of the neighbors to keep them for the winter.
She says she can't bear to ask any of them.
Mary never got on any too well with the East Grafton people and that's a fact.
And the long and short of it is, Anne, that I'm sure Mary wants me to take those children . . . she didn't say so but she _looked_ it." "Oh!
Anne clasped her hands, all athrill with excitement.
And of course you will, Marilla, won't you?" "I haven't made up my mind," said Marilla rather tartly.
I don't rush into things in your headlong way, Anne.
Third cousinship is a pretty slim claim.
It's only when there are two or three pairs that it gets monotonous.
It wouldn't be so risky if they were even as old as you were when I took you.
I wouldn't mind Dora so much . . . she seems good and quiet.
But that Davy is a limb." Anne was fond of children and her heart yearned over the Keith twins. The remembrance of her own neglected childhood was very vivid with her still.
If we don't take them we don't know who will, nor what kind of influences may surround them.
Suppose Mrs. Keith's next door neighbors, the Sprotts, were to take them.
Mrs. Lynde says Henry Sprott is the most profane man that ever lived and you can't believe a word his children say.
Wouldn't it be dreadful to have the twins learn anything like that?
Or suppose they went to the Wiggins'. Mrs. Lynde says that Mr. Wiggins sells everything off the place that can be sold and brings his family up on skim milk.
You wouldn't like your relations to be starved, even if they were only third cousins, would you?
It seems to me, Marilla, that it is our duty to take them." "I suppose it is," assented Marilla gloomily.
I daresay I'll tell Mary I'll take them.
You needn't look so delighted, Anne.
It will mean a good deal of extra work for you.
But that had been in springtime; and this was late autumn, and all the woods were leafless and the fields sere and brown.
The sun was just setting with a great deal of purple and golden pomp behind the dark woods west of Avonlea when a buggy drawn by a comfortable brown nag came down the hill.
Mrs. Rachel peered at it eagerly. "There's Marilla getting home from the funeral," she said to her husband, who was lying on the kitchen lounge.
Thomas Lynde lay more on the lounge nowadays than he had been used to do, but Mrs. Rachel, who was so sharp at noticing anything beyond her own household, had not as yet noticed this.
And she's got the twins with her, . . . yes, there's Davy leaning over the dashboard grabbing at the pony's tail and Marilla jerking him back.
Dora's sitting up on the seat as prim as you please. She always looks as if she'd just been starched and ironed.
Well, poor Marilla is going to have her hands full this winter and no mistake. Still, I don't see that she could do anything less than take them, under the circumstances, and she'll have Anne to help her.
Anne's tickled to death over the whole business, and she has a real knacky way with children, I must say.
Dear me, it doesn't seem a day since poor Matthew brought Anne herself home and everybody laughed at the idea of Marilla bringing up a child.
And now she has adopted twins.
You're never safe from being surprised till you're dead." The fat pony jogged over the bridge in Lynde's Hollow and along the Green Gables lane.
Marilla's face was rather grim.
It was ten miles from East Grafton and Davy Keith seemed to be possessed with a passion for perpetual motion.
In despair she finally threatened to whip him soundly when she got him home.
Whereupon Davy climbed into her lap, regardless of the reins, flung his chubby arms about her neck and gave her a bear-like hug. "I don't believe you mean it," he said, smacking her wrinkled cheek affectionately.
You don't _look_ like a lady who'd whip a little boy just 'cause he couldn't keep still.
You _was_ a girl once, I s'pose, though it's awful funny to think of it.
Dora can sit still . . . but there ain't much fun in it _I_ don't think.
Seems to me it must be slow to be a girl.
Here, Dora, let me liven you up a bit." Davy's method of "livening up" was to grasp Dora's curls in his fingers and give them a tug.
Dora shrieked and then cried. "How can you be such a naughty boy and your poor mother just laid in her grave this very day?" demanded Marilla despairingly. "But she was glad to die," said Davy confidentially.
I know, 'cause she told me so.
She was awful tired of being sick.
We'd a long talk the night before she died.
She told me you was going to take me and Dora for the winter and I was to be a good boy.
I'm going to be good, but can't you be good running round just as well as sitting still?
They'd just better try it.
I didn't hurt her much . . . she just cried 'cause she's a girl.
I'm glad I'm a boy but I'm sorry I'm a twin.
When Jimmy Sprott's sister conterdicks him he just says, 'I'm oldern you, so of course I know better,' and that settles _her_.
But I can't tell Dora that, and she just goes on thinking diffrunt from me.
You might let me drive the gee-gee for a spell, since I'm a man." Altogether, Marilla was a thankful woman when she drove into her own yard, where the wind of the autumn night was dancing with the brown leaves.
Anne was at the gate to meet them and lift the twins out.
Dora ain't half as hungry as I am. Look at all the ex'cise I took on the road here.
That cake's awful nice and plummy.
We haven't had any cake at home for ever'n ever so long, 'cause mother was too sick to make it and Mrs. Sprott said it was as much as she could do to bake our bread for us.
And Mrs. Wiggins never puts any plums in _her_ cakes.
Can I have another piece?" Marilla would have refused but Anne cut a generous second slice. However, she reminded Davy that he ought to say "Thank you" for it. Davy merely grinned at her and took a huge bite.
But you can't be a gemplum till you grow up." "Oh, indeed you can," Anne hastened to say, thinking she saw a chance to sow good seed betimes.
You can begin to be a gentleman when you are a little boy.
And gentlemen _never_ snatch things from ladies . . . or forget to say thank you . . . or pull anybody's hair." "They don't have much fun, that's a fact," said Davy frankly.
I guess I'll wait till I'm grown up to be one." Marilla, with a resigned air, had cut another piece of cake for Dora. She did not feel able to cope with Davy just then.
It had been a hard day for her, what with the funeral and the long drive.
At that moment she looked forward to the future with a pessimism that would have done credit to Eliza Andrews herself. The twins were not noticeably alike, although both were fair.
Dora had long sleek curls that never got out of order.
Davy had a crop of fuzzy little yellow ringlets all over his round head.
Dora's hazel eyes were gentle and mild; Davy's were as roguish and dancing as an elf's.
Mirth and mischief lurked in every corner of his little face. "They'd better go to bed," said Marilla, who thought it was the easiest way to dispose of them.
Dora will sleep with me and you can put Davy in the west gable.
You're not afraid to sleep alone, are you, Davy?" "No; but I ain't going to bed for ever so long yet," said Davy comfortably. "Oh, yes, you are.
That was all the much-tried Marilla said, but something in her tone squelched even Davy.
Not that it really was so much worse than the weeks that followed it; but it seemed so by reason of its novelty.
Anne dressed him for church while Marilla attended to Dora.
Davy at first objected strongly to having his face washed. "Marilla washed it yesterday . . . and Mrs. Wiggins scoured me with hard soap the day of the funeral.
That's enough for one week.
I don't see the good of being so awful clean.
If Paul Irving washed his face every day, that settled it.
He, Davy Keith, would do it too, if it killed him.
The same consideration induced him to submit meekly to the other details of his toilet, and he was really a handsome little lad when all was done.
The first two hymns and the Scripture reading passed off uneventfully.
Marilla saw and clutched at him but she was too late.
Davy dropped the caterpillar down Lauretta's neck. Right into the middle of Mr. Allan's prayer burst a series of piercing shrieks.
The minister stopped appalled and opened his eyes.
Every head in the congregation flew up.
Her shrieks died away in the distance and Mr. Allan proceeded with the service.
But everybody felt that it was a failure that day.
She would not give him any dinner but allowed him a plain tea of bread and milk.
Anne carried it to him and sat sorrowfully by him while he ate it with an unrepentant relish.
But it was such a jolly big caterpillar . . .
I picked him up on the church steps just as we went in. It seemed a pity to waste him.
And say, wasn't it fun to hear that girl yell?" Tuesday afternoon the Aid Society met at Green Gables.
Anne hurried home from school, for she knew that Marilla would need all the assistance she could give.
I thought it would keep him out of worse mischief.
He can only get dirty at that.
We'll have our teas over before we call him to his.
Mrs. Jasper Bell said Davy had come to the front door and called her out.
I didn't want to but he called me a fraid-cat.
And I fell off into the pigpen and my dress got all dirty and the pig runned right over me.
Davy was caught and sent to bed without any supper.
Anne went to his room at twilight and talked to him seriously . . . a method in which she had great faith, not altogether unjustified by results.
She told him she felt very badly over his conduct. "I feel sorry now myself," admitted Davy, "but the trouble is I never feel sorry for doing things till after I've did them.
Dora wouldn't help me make pies, cause she was afraid of messing her clo'es and that made me hopping mad.
I s'pose Paul Irving wouldn't have made _his_ sister walk a pigpen fence if he knew she'd fall in?" "No, he would never dream of such a thing.
Paul is a perfect little gentleman." Davy screwed his eyes tight shut and seemed to meditate on this for a time.
Somehow, it was impossible to help liking Davy.
But I'd like you better still if you weren't so naughty." "I . . . did something else today," went on Davy in a muffled voice. "I'm sorry now but I'm awful scared to tell you.
You won't be very cross, will you?
And you won't tell Marilla, will you?" "I don't know, Davy.
Perhaps I ought to tell her.
But I think I can promise you I won't if you promise me that you will never do it again, whatever it is." "No, I never will.
Anyhow, it's not likely I'd find any more of them this year.
I found this one on the cellar steps." "Davy, what is it you've done?" "I put a toad in Marilla's bed.
You can go and take it out if you like. But say, Anne, wouldn't it be fun to leave it there?" "Davy Keith!
Anne sprang from Davy's clinging arms and flew across the hall to Marilla's room.
The bed was slightly rumpled.
She threw back the blankets in nervous haste and there in very truth was the toad, blinking at her from under a pillow. "How can I carry that awful thing out?" moaned Anne with a shudder.
The fire shovel suggested itself to her and she crept down to get it while Marilla was busy in the pantry.
Anne had her own troubles carrying that toad downstairs, for it hopped off the shovel three times and once she thought she had lost it in the hall.
When she finally deposited it in the cherry orchard she drew a long breath of relief. "If Marilla knew she'd never feel safe getting into bed again in her life.
I'm so glad that little sinner repented in time.
There's Diana signaling to me from her window.
I'm glad . . .
That is always what is wrong when people don't like each other.
And as for understanding her, I understand that she is a confirmed busybody and I told her so." "Oh, that must have hurt her feelings very much," said Anne reproachfully.
How could you say such a thing? _I_ said some dreadful things to Mrs. Lynde long ago but it was when I had lost my temper.
I couldn't say them _deliberately_." "It was the truth and I believe in telling the truth to everybody." "But you don't tell the whole truth," objected Anne.
You only tell the disagreeable part of the truth.
You must excuse me, Anne.
I've got a habit of being outspoken and folks mustn't mind it." "But they can't help minding it.
And I don't think it's any help that it's your habit.
What would you think of a person who went about sticking pins and needles into people and saying, 'Excuse me, you mustn't mind it . . . it's just a habit I've got.
You'd think he was crazy, wouldn't you?
And as for Mrs. Lynde being a busybody, perhaps she is.
I have some myself, though you might never suspect it.
But anyhow I ain't going to give anything to that carpet.
Folks are everlasting begging for money here, it seems to me. How's your project of painting the hall coming on?" "Splendidly.
The roof will be dark red, of course.
Mr. Roger Pye is going to get the paint in town today." "Who's got the job?" "Mr. Joshua Pye of Carmody.
He has nearly finished the shingling.
We had to give him the contract, for every one of the Pyes . . . and there are four families, you know . . . said they wouldn't give a cent unless Joshua got it.
They had subscribed twelve dollars between them and we thought that was too much to lose, although some people think we shouldn't have given in to the Pyes.
Mrs. Lynde says they try to run everything." "The main question is will this Joshua do his work well.
If he does I don't see that it matters whether his name is Pye or Pudding." "He has the reputation of being a good workman, though they say he's a very peculiar man.
He hardly ever talks." "He's peculiar enough all right then," said Mr. Harrison drily.
Or at least, folks here will call him so.
I never was much of a talker till I came to Avonlea and then I had to begin in self-defense or Mrs. Lynde would have said I was dumb and started a subscription to have me taught sign language.
You're not going yet, Anne?" "I must.
I have some sewing to do for Dora this evening.
Besides, Davy is probably breaking Marilla's heart with some new mischief by this time.
This morning the first thing he said was, 'Where does the dark go, Anne?
I told him it went around to the other side of the world but after breakfast he declared it didn't . . . that it went down the well.
Marilla says she caught him hanging over the well-box four times today, trying to reach down to the dark." "He's a limb," declared Mr. Harrison.
He came over here yesterday and pulled six feathers out of Ginger's tail before I could get in from the barn.
The poor bird has been moping ever since.
He was not disturbed in his task.
The hall was situated on what was called "the lower road.
In late autumn this road was always muddy and wet, and people going to Carmody traveled by the longer "upper" road.
The hall was so closely surrounded by fir woods that it was invisible unless you were near it.
Mr. Joshua Pye painted away in the solitude and independence that were so dear to his unsociable heart. Friday afternoon he finished his job and went home to Carmody.
Soon after his departure Mrs. Rachel Lynde drove by, having braved the mud of the lower road out of curiosity to see what the hall looked like in its new coat of paint.
When she rounded the spruce curve she saw. The sight affected Mrs. Lynde oddly.
She dropped the reins, held up her hands, and said "Gracious Providence!
She stared as if she could not believe her eyes.
Then she laughed almost hysterically. "There must be some mistake . . . there _must_.
I knew those Pyes would make a mess of things." Mrs. Lynde drove home, meeting several people on the road and stopping to tell them about the hall.
The news flew like wildfire.
Gilbert Blythe, poring over a text book at home, heard it from his father's hired boy at sunset, and rushed breathlessly to Green Gables, joined on the way by Fred Wright.
Mrs. Lynde called on her way from Carmody to tell me.
Oh, it is simply dreadful! _What_ is the use of trying to improve anything?" "What is dreadful?" asked Oliver Sloane, arriving at this moment with a bandbox he had brought from town for Marilla. "Haven't you heard?" said Jane wrathfully.
Well, its simply this. . . Joshua Pye _has gone and painted the hall blue instead of green_ . . . a deep, brilliant blue, the shade they use for painting carts and wheelbarrows.
And Mrs. Lynde says it is the most hideous color for a building, especially when combined with a red roof, that she ever saw or imagined.
You could simply have knocked me down with a feather when I heard it.
It's heartbreaking, after all the trouble we've had." "How on earth could such a mistake have happened?" wailed Diana. The blame of this unmerciful disaster was eventually narrowed down to the Pyes.
The Improvers had decided to use Morton-Harris paints and the Morton-Harris paint cans were numbered according to a color card.
A purchaser chose his shade on the card and ordered by the accompanying number.
The gloom at Green Gables was so intense that it quenched even Davy.
Anne wept and would not be comforted. "I _must_ cry, even if I am almost seventeen, Marilla," she sobbed.
And it sounds the death knell of our society.
We'll simply be laughed out of existence." In life, as in dreams, however, things often go by contraries.
The Avonlea people did not laugh; they were too angry. _Their_ money had gone to paint the hall and consequently _they_ felt themselves bitterly aggrieved by the mistake.
People thought the eager, enthusiastic little band who had worked so hard for their object had been badly used.
Mrs. Lynde told them to keep on and show the Pyes that there really were people in the world who could do things without making a muddle of them.
Even Mr. Harrison chuckled, if he chuckled at all, in private, and was all sympathy outwardly. "Never mind, Anne.
Most paints fade uglier every year but that blue is as ugly as it can be to begin with, so it's bound to fade prettier.
And the roof is shingled and painted all right.
Folks will be able to sit in the hall after this without being leaked on.
November is usually such a disagreeable month . . . as if the year had suddenly found out that she was growing old and could do nothing but weep and fret over it.
This year is growing old gracefully . . . just like a stately old lady who knows she can be charming even with gray hair and wrinkles.
We've had lovely days and delicious twilights.
This last fortnight has been so peaceful, and even Davy has been almost well-behaved.
I really think he is improving a great deal.
How quiet the woods are today . . . not a murmur except that soft wind purring in the treetops!
It sounds like surf on a faraway shore.
How dear the woods are!
I love every one of you as a friend." Anne paused to throw her arm about a slim young birch and kiss its cream-white trunk.
Diana, rounding a curve in the path, saw her and laughed. "Anne Shirley, you're only pretending to be grown up.
I believe when you're alone you're as much a little girl as you ever were." "Well, one can't get over the habit of being a little girl all at once," said Anne gaily.
You see, I was little for fourteen years and I've only been grown-uppish for scarcely three.
I'm sure I shall always feel like a child in the woods.
These walks home from school are almost the only time I have for dreaming . . . except the half-hour or so before I go to sleep.
I'm so busy with teaching and studying and helping Marilla with the twins that I haven't another moment for imagining things.
You don't know what splendid adventures I have for a little while after I go to bed in the east gable every night.
I always imagine I'm something very brilliant and triumphant and splendid . . . a great prima donna or a Red Cross nurse or a queen.
Last night I was a queen.
It's really splendid to imagine you are a queen.
You have all the fun of it without any of the inconveniences and you can stop being a queen whenever you want to, which you couldn't in real life.
But here in the woods I like best to imagine quite different things . . .
I'm a dryad living in an old pine, or a little brown wood-elf hiding under a crinkled leaf.
That white birch you caught me kissing is a sister of mine.
The only difference is, she's a tree and I'm a girl, but that's no real difference.
Where are you going, Diana?" "Down to the Dicksons.
I promised to help Alberta cut out her new dress.
She did not look offended, however. Anne fully intended to go down to the Dicksons' that evening, but she did not.
When she arrived at Green Gables she found a state of affairs which banished every other thought from her mind.
Marilla met her in the yard . . . a wild-eyed Marilla. "Anne, Dora is lost!" "Dora!
Anne looked at Davy, who was swinging on the yard gate, and detected merriment in his eyes.
Davy, do you know where she is?" "No, I don't," said Davy stoutly.
I haven't seen her since dinner time, cross my heart." "I've been away ever since one o'clock," said Marilla.
Thomas Lynde took sick all of a sudden and Rachel sent up for me to go at once.
When I left here Dora was playing with her doll in the kitchen and Davy was making mud pies behind the barn.
I only got home half an hour ago . . . and no Dora to be seen.
Davy declares he never saw her since I left." "Neither I did," avowed Davy solemnly. "She must be somewhere around," said Anne.
She would never wander far away alone . . . you know how timid she is.
Perhaps she has fallen asleep in one of the rooms." Marilla shook her head. "I've hunted the whole house through.
But she may be in some of the buildings." A thorough search followed.
Every corner of house, yard, and outbuildings was ransacked by those two distracted people.
Anne roved the orchards and the Haunted Wood, calling Dora's name.
Marilla took a candle and explored the cellar.
The bucket sat on the shelf inside.
Far down below was a tiny glimmer of still water.
The Cuthbert well was the deepest in Avonlea.
If Dora. . . but Anne could not face the idea.
She shuddered and turned away. "Run across for Mr. Harrison," said Marilla, wringing her hands. "Mr. Harrison and John Henry are both away . . . they went to town today.
I'll go for Mr. Barry." Mr. Barry came back with Anne, carrying a coil of rope to which was attached a claw-like instrument that had been the business end of a grubbing fork.
It's a mighty curious thing where she could have got to, though.
Look here, young man, are you sure you've no idea where your sister is?" "I've told you a dozen times that I haven't," said Davy, with an injured air.
Maybe a tramp come and stole her." "Nonsense," said Marilla sharply, relieved from her horrible fear of the well.
Anne, do you suppose she could have strayed over to Mr. Harrison's?
He quietly slipped off the gate and ran, as fast as his fat legs could carry him, to the barn. Anne hastened across the fields to the Harrison establishment in no very hopeful frame of mind.
Anne flew to the door, unhasped it, and caught up a small mortal with a tearstained face who was sitting forlornly on an upturned nail keg. "Oh, Dora, Dora, what a fright you have given us!
How came you to be here?" "Davy and I came over to see Ginger," sobbed Dora, "but we couldn't see him after all, only Davy made him swear by kicking the door.
And then Davy brought me here and run out and shut the door; and I couldn't get out.
I cried and cried, I was frightened, and oh, I'm so hungry and cold; and I thought you'd never come, Anne." "Davy?
But Anne could say no more.
She carried Dora home with a heavy heart.
Her joy at finding the child safe and sound was drowned out in the pain caused by Davy's behavior.
The freak of shutting Dora up might easily have been pardoned.
But Davy had told falsehoods . . . downright coldblooded falsehoods about it.
That was the ugly fact and Anne could not shut her eyes to it.
She could have sat down and cried with sheer disappointment.
When he had gone home Anne soothed and warmed the sobbing, shivering Dora, got her her supper and put her to bed.
Anne was sitting limply by the west window.
Between them stood the culprit.
There was something else . . . something ugly and repulsive. "How could you behave so, Davy?" she asked sorrowfully. Davy squirmed uncomfortably. "I just did it for fun.
Things have been so awful quiet here for so long that I thought it would be fun to give you folks a big scare.
It was, too." In spite of fear and a little remorse Davy grinned over the recollection. "But you told a falsehood about it, Davy," said Anne, more sorrowfully than ever. Davy looked puzzled. "What's a falsehood?
Do you mean a whopper?" "I mean a story that was not true." "Course I did," said Davy frankly.
If I hadn't you wouldn't have been scared.
I _had_ to tell it." Anne was feeling the reaction from her fright and exertions.
Davy's impenitent attitude gave the finishing touch.
Two big tears brimmed up in her eyes. "Oh, Davy, how could you?" she said, with a quiver in her voice.
Don't you know how wrong it was?" Davy was aghast.
Anne crying . . . he had made Anne cry!
A flood of real remorse rolled like a wave over his warm little heart and engulfed it.
He rushed to Anne, hurled himself into her lap, flung his arms around her neck, and burst into tears. "I didn't know it was wrong to tell whoppers," he sobbed.
How did you expect me to know it was wrong?
All Mr. Sprott's children told them _regular_ every day, and cross their hearts too.
I s'pose Paul Irving never tells whoppers and here I've been trying awful hard to be as good as him, but now I s'pose you'll never love me again.
But I think you might have told me it was wrong.
I'm awful sorry I've made you cry, Anne, and I'll never tell a whopper again." Davy buried his face in Anne's shoulder and cried stormily.
Anne, in a sudden glad flash of understanding, held him tight and looked over his curly thatch at Marilla. "He didn't know it was wrong to tell falsehoods, Marilla.
I think we must forgive him for that part of it this time if he will promise never to say what isn't true again." "I never will, now that I know it's bad," asseverated Davy between sobs.
If you ever catch me telling a whopper again you can . . .
Why ain't whopper as good as falsehood?
It's just as big a word." "It's slang; and it's wrong for little boys to use slang." "There's an awful lot of things it's wrong to do," said Davy with a sigh.
I never s'posed there was so many.
I'm sorry it's wrong to tell whop . . . falsehoods, 'cause it's awful handy, but since it is I'm never going to tell any more.
What are you going to do to me for telling them this time?
Anne looked beseechingly at Marilla. "I don't want to be too hard on the child," said Marilla.
I daresay nobody ever did tell him it was wrong to tell lies, and those Sprott children were no fit companions for him.
Poor Mary was too sick to train him properly and I presume you couldn't expect a six-year-old child to know things like that by instinct.
Can't you suggest something else, Anne?
I should think you ought to be able to, with that imagination you're always talking of." "But punishments are so horrid and I like to imagine only pleasant things," said Anne, cuddling Davy.
There are so many unpleasant things in the world already that there is no use in imagining any more." In the end Davy was sent to bed, as usual, there to remain until noon next day.
He evidently did some thinking, for when Anne went up to her room a little later she heard him calling her name softly.
Going in, she found him sitting up in bed, with his elbows on his knees and his chin propped on his hands. "Anne," he said solemnly, "is it wrong for everybody to tell whop . . . falsehoods?
I want to know?" "Yes, indeed." "Is it wrong for a grown-up person?" "Yes." "Then," said Davy decidedly, "Marilla is bad, for _she_ tells them.
And she's worse'n me, for I didn't know it was wrong but she does." "Davy Keith, Marilla never told a story in her life," said Anne indignantly. "She did so.
She told me last Tuesday that something dreadful _would_ happen to me if I didn't say my prayers every night.
Course, I don't like it, but I've been sent to bed so much since I come here that I'm getting used to it.
And you don't save anything by making me go without supper either, for I always eat twice as much for breakfast." "I don't mean your being sent to bed.
I mean the fact that you told a falsehood today.
And, Davy," . . .
So you see Marilla told you the truth." "But I thought the something bad would be exciting," protested Davy in an injured tone. "Marilla isn't to blame for what you thought.
Bad things aren't always exciting.
I haven't seen much to laugh at today." "You'll laugh when you hear this," assured Anne.
And Marilla did laugh, which showed how much her education had advanced since the adoption of Anne.
But she sighed immediately afterwards. "I suppose I shouldn't have told him that, although I heard a minister say it to a child once.
But he did aggravate me so.
It was that night you were at the Carmody concert and I was putting him to bed.
He said he didn't see the good of praying until he got big enough to be of some importance to God.
Anne, I do not know what we are going to do with that child.
I never saw his beat.
I'm feeling clean discouraged." "Oh, don't say that, Marilla.
Remember how bad I was when I came here." "Anne, you never were bad . . . _never_.
I see that now, when I've learned what real badness is.
You were always getting into terrible scrapes, I'll admit, but your motive was always good.
Davy is just bad from sheer love of it." "Oh, no, I don't think it is real badness with him either," pleaded Anne.
And it is rather quiet for him here, you know.
He has no other boys to play with and his mind has to have something to occupy it.
Dora is so prim and proper she is no good for a boy's playmate.
There couldn't be a better child and you'd hardly know she was in the house." "Dora is too good," said Anne.
She'd behave just as well if there wasn't a soul to tell her what to do.
She was born already brought up, so she doesn't need us; and I think," concluded Anne, hitting on a very vital truth, "that we always love best the people who need us.
Davy needs us badly." "He certainly needs something," agreed Marilla.
Rachel Lynde would say it was a good spanking." XI Facts and Fancies "Teaching is really very interesting work," wrote Anne to a Queen's Academy chum.
Jane says she thinks it is monotonous but I don't find it so.
Something funny is almost sure to happen every day, and the children say such amusing things.
Jane says she punishes her pupils when they make funny speeches, which is probably why she finds teaching monotonous.
This afternoon little Jimmy Andrews was trying to spell 'speckled' and couldn't manage it.
Well,' he said finally, 'I can't spell it but I know what it means.' "'What?
I asked. "'St. Clair Donnell's face, miss.' "St. Clair is certainly very much freckled, although I try to prevent the others from commenting on it . . . for _I_ was freckled once and well do I remember it.
But I don't think St. Clair minds.
It was because Jimmy called him 'St. Clair' that St. Clair pounded him on the way home from school.
I heard of the pounding, but not officially, so I don't think I'll take any notice of it. "Yesterday I was trying to teach Lottie Wright to do addition.
I said, 'If you had three candies in one hand and two in the other, how many would you have altogether?
And in the nature study class, when I asked them to give me a good reason why toads shouldn't be killed, Benjie Sloane gravely answered, 'Because it would rain the next day.' "It's so hard not to laugh, Stella.
I have to save up all my amusement until I get home, and Marilla says it makes her nervous to hear wild shrieks of mirth proceeding from the east gable without any apparent cause.
Claude White says a 'glacier' is a man who puts in window frames! "I think the most difficult thing in teaching, as well as the most interesting, is to get the children to tell you their real thoughts about things.
One stormy day last week I gathered them around me at dinner hour and tried to get them to talk to me just as if I were one of themselves.
I asked them to tell me the things they most wanted. Some of the answers were commonplace enough . . . dolls, ponies, and skates.
Hester Boulter wanted 'to wear her Sunday dress every day and eat in the sitting room.
Hannah Bell wanted 'to be good without having to take any trouble about it.' Marjory White, aged ten, wanted to be a _widow_.
Questioned why, she gravely said that if you weren't married people called you an old maid, and if you were your husband bossed you; but if you were a widow there'd be no danger of either.
The most remarkable wish was Sally Bell's.
I couldn't get the older ones to do so, but the third class answered quite freely.
Eliza Bell had 'set fire to her aunt's carded rolls.
Asked if she meant to do it she said, 'not altogether.
She just tried a little end to see how it would burn and the whole bundle blazed up in a jiffy.
Emerson Gillis had spent ten cents for candy when he should have put it in his missionary box.
Annetta Bell's worst crime was 'eating some blueberries that grew in the graveyard.
Willie White had 'slid down the sheephouse roof a lot of times with his Sunday trousers on.
They were to write the letters on real note paper, seal them in an envelope, and address them to me, all without any assistance from other people.
Last Friday morning I found a pile of letters on my desk and that evening I realized afresh that teaching has its pleasures as well as its pains.
Those compositions would atone for much.
Here is Ned Clay's, address, spelling, and grammar as originally penned. "'Miss teacher ShiRley Green gabels. p.e.
Island can birds "'Dear teacher I think I will write you a composition about birds. birds is very useful animals. my cat catches birds.
His name is William but pa calls him tom. he is oll striped and he got one of his ears froz of last winter. only for that he would be a good-looking cat.
St. Clair never wastes words.
I do not think he chose his subject or added the postscript out of malice aforethought.
It is just that he has not a great deal of tact or imagination." "'Dear Miss Shirley "'You told us to describe something strange we have seen.
I will describe the Avonlea Hall.
It has two doors, an inside one and an outside one.
It has six windows and a chimney.
It has two ends and two sides.
That is what makes it strange.
It is built on the lower Carmody road.
It is the third most important building in Avonlea.
The others are the church and the blacksmith shop.
Annetta is a quiet little puss and a model of good behavior, but there isn't a shadow of originality in her.
Here is her letter.- "'Dearest teacher, "'I think I will write you a letter to tell you how much I love you.
I love you with my whole heart and soul and mind . . . with all there is of me to love . . . and I want to serve you for ever.
It would be my highest privilege.
That is why I try so hard to be good in school and learn my lessuns. "'You are so beautiful, my teacher.
Your voice is like music and your eyes are like pansies when the dew is on them.
You are like a tall stately queen.
Your hair is like rippling gold.
I will always look back to this year as the most wonderful in my life because it brought you to me.
Besides, it's the year we moved to Avonlea from Newbridge.
My love for you has made my life very rich and it has kept me from much of harm and evil.
I owe this all to you, my sweetest teacher. "'I shall never forget how sweet you looked the last time I saw you in that black dress with flowers in your hair.
I shall see you like that for ever, even when we are both old and gray.
You will always be young and fair to me, dearest teacher.
I am thinking of you all the time. . . in the morning and at the noontide and at the twilight.
I love you when you laugh and when you sigh . . . even when you look disdainful.
I never saw you look cross though Anthony Pye says you always look so but I don't wonder you look cross at him for he deserves it.
I love you in every dress . . . you seem more adorable in each new dress than the last. "'Dearest teacher, good night.
The sun has set and the stars are shining . . . stars that are as bright and beautiful as your eyes.
I kiss your hands and face, my sweet.
May God watch over you and protect you from all harm. "'Your afecksionate pupil, "'Annetta Bell.'" "This extraordinary letter puzzled me not a little.
I knew Annetta couldn't have composed it any more than she could fly.
When I went to school the next day I took her for a walk down to the brook at recess and asked her to tell me the truth about the letter.
Annetta cried and 'fessed up freely.
She said she couldn't make out what he was driving at half the time.
But I thought the letters were sweet and that I'd just copy things out of them here and there to write you.
I put "teacher" where he put "lady" and I put in something of my own when I could think of it and I changed some words.
I put "dress" in place of "mood.
I didn't know just what a "mood" was but I s'posed it was something to wear.
I didn't s'pose you'd know the difference.
I don't see how you found out it wasn't all mine.
You must be awful clever, teacher.' "I told Annetta it was very wrong to copy another person's letter and pass it off as her own.
But I'm afraid that all Annetta repented of was being found out. "'And I do love you, teacher,' she sobbed.
It was all true, even if the minister wrote it first.
I do love you with all my heart.' "It's very difficult to scold anybody properly under such circumstances. "Here is Barbara Shaw's letter.
I can't reproduce the blots of the original. "'Dear teacher, "'You said we might write about a visit.
I never visited but once.
It was at my Aunt Mary's last winter.
My Aunt Mary is a very particular woman and a great housekeeper.
The first night I was there we were at tea.
I knocked over a jug and broke it.
Aunt Mary said she had had that jug ever since she was married and nobody had ever broken it before. When we got up I stepped on her dress and all the gathers tore out of the skirt.
The next morning when I got up I hit the pitcher against the basin and cracked them both and I upset a cup of tea on the tablecloth at breakfast.
When I was helping Aunt Mary with the dinner dishes I dropped a china plate and it smashed.
That evening I fell downstairs and sprained my ankle and had to stay in bed for a week.
I heard Aunt Mary tell Uncle Joseph it was a mercy or I'd have broken everything in the house.
When I got better it was time to go home.
I don't like visiting very much.
I like going to school better, especially since I came to Avonlea. "'Yours respectfully, "'Barbara Shaw.'" "Willie White's began, "'Respected Miss, "'I want to tell you about my Very Brave Aunt.
She lives in Ontario and one day she went out to the barn and saw a dog in the yard.
The dog had no business there so she got a stick and whacked him hard and drove him into the barn and shut him up.
Pretty soon a man came looking for an inaginary lion' (Query;-Did Willie mean a menagerie lion?) 'that had run away from a circus.
And it turned out that the dog was a lion and my Very Brave Aunt had druv him into the barn with a stick.
It was a wonder she was not et up but she was very brave.
Emerson Gillis says if she thought it was a dog she wasn't any braver than if it really was a dog.
But Emerson is jealous because he hasn't got a Brave Aunt himself, nothing but uncles.' "'I have kept the best for the last.
You laugh at me because I think Paul is a genius but I am sure his letter will convince you that he is a very uncommon child.
Paul lives away down near the shore with his grandmother and he has no playmates . . . no real playmates.
You remember our School Management professor told us that we must not have 'favorites' among our pupils, but I can't help loving Paul Irving the best of all mine.
I don't think it does any harm, though, for everybody loves Paul, even Mrs. Lynde, who says she could never have believed she'd get so fond of a Yankee.
The other boys in school like him too. There is nothing weak or girlish about him in spite of his dreams and fancies.
He is very manly and can hold his own in all games.
He fought St. Clair Donnell recently because St. Clair said the Union Jack was away ahead of the Stars and Stripes as a flag.
The result was a drawn battle and a mutual agreement to respect each other's patriotism henceforth.
I have never told anybody about them except grandma and father but I would like to have you know about them because you understand things.
There are a great many people who do not understand things so there is no use in telling them.' "'My rock people live at the shore.
I used to visit them almost every evening before the winter came.
Now I can't go till spring, but they will be there, for people like that never change . . . that is the splendid thing about them.
Nora was the first one of them I got acquainted with and so I think I love her the best.
She lives in Andrews' Cove and she has black hair and black eyes, and she knows all about the mermaids and the water kelpies.
You ought to hear the stories she can tell.
Then there are the Twin Sailors.
They don't live anywhere, they sail all the time, but they often come ashore to talk to me.
They are a pair of jolly tars and they have seen everything in the world. . . and more than what is in the world.
Do you know what happened to the youngest Twin Sailor once?
He was sailing and he sailed right into a moonglade.
A moonglade is the track the full moon makes on the water when it is rising from the sea, you know, teacher.
Well, the youngest Twin Sailor sailed along the moonglade till he came right up to the moon, and there was a little golden door in the moon and he opened it and sailed right through.
He had some wonderful adventures in the moon but it would make this letter too long to tell them.' "'Then there is the Golden Lady of the cave.
One day I found a big cave down on the shore and I went away in and after a while I found the Golden Lady.
She has golden hair right down to her feet and her dress is all glittering and glistening like gold that is alive.
I've never told Nora about the Golden Lady.
I was afraid it might hurt her feelings.
It even hurt her feelings if I talked too long with the Twin Sailors.' "'I always met the Twin Sailors at the Striped Rocks.
The youngest Twin Sailor is very good-tempered but the oldest Twin Sailor can look dreadfully fierce at times.
I have my suspicions about that oldest Twin.
I believe he'd be a pirate if he dared.
There's really something very mysterious about him.
He swore once and I told him if he ever did it again he needn't come ashore to talk to me because I'd promised grandmother I'd never associate with anybody that swore.
He was pretty well scared, I can tell you, and he said if I would forgive him he would take me to the sunset.
So the next evening when I was sitting on the Striped Rocks the oldest Twin came sailing over the sea in an enchanted boat and I got in her.
The boat was all pearly and rainbowy, like the inside of the mussel shells, and her sail was like moonshine. Well, we sailed right across to the sunset.
Think of that, teacher, I've been in the sunset.
And what do you suppose it is?
The sunset is a land all flowers.
We sailed into a great garden, and the clouds are beds of flowers.
We sailed into a great harbor, all the color of gold, and I stepped right out of the boat on a big meadow all covered with buttercups as big as roses.
I stayed there for ever so long.
It seemed nearly a year but the Oldest Twin says it was only a few minutes.
You see, in the sunset land the time is ever so much longer than it is here.' "'Your loving pupil, "'Paul Irving.' "'P.
S. of course, this letter isn't really true, teacher. P.I.'" XII A Jonah Day It really began the night before with a restless, wakeful vigil of grumbling toothache.
When Anne arose in the dull, bitter winter morning she felt that life was flat, stale, and unprofitable. She went to school in no angelic mood.
Her cheek was swollen and her face ached.
The schoolroom was cold and smoky, for the fire refused to burn and the children were huddled about it in shivering groups.
Anne sent them to their seats with a sharper tone than she had ever used before.
It is positively disgraceful for a girl of your age to be so awkward." Poor Barbara stumbled back to her desk, her tears combining with the coal dust to produce an effect truly grotesque.
Never before had her beloved, sympathetic teacher spoken to her in such a tone or fashion, and Barbara was heartbroken.
Anne herself felt a prick of conscience but it only served to increase her mental irritation, and the second reader class remember that lesson yet, as well as the unmerciful infliction of arithmetic that followed.
St. Clair looked rather amazed at her tone but he went meekly to his desk and took out his slate.
Then he stealthily passed a small parcel to Joe Sloane across the aisle.
Anne caught him in the act and jumped to a fatal conclusion about that parcel. Old Mrs. Hiram Sloane had lately taken to making and selling "nut cakes" by way of adding to her scanty income.
The cakes were specially tempting to small boys and for several weeks Anne had had not a little trouble in regard to them.
On their way to school the boys would invest their spare cash at Mrs. Hiram's, bring the cakes along with them to school, and, if possible, eat them and treat their mates during school hours.
He was a fat urchin who always blushed and stuttered when he was frightened.
This was a new Anne whom none of her pupils had ever seen before.
Joe, with an agonized glance at St. Clair, went to the stove, opened the big, square front door, and threw the blue and white parcel in, before St. Clair, who had sprung to his feet, could utter a word.
Then he dodged back just in time. For a few moments the terrified occupants of Avonlea school did not know whether it was an earthquake or a volcanic explosion that had occurred.
The crackers went off in a thunderclap of noise and the pinwheels bursting out of the door spun madly around the room, hissing and spluttering.
Anne dropped into her chair white with dismay and all the girls climbed shrieking upon their desks.
Joe Sloane stood as one transfixed in the midst of the commotion and St. Clair, helpless with laughter, rocked to and fro in the aisle.
Prillie Rogerson fainted and Annetta Bell went into hysterics. It seemed a long time, although it was really only a few minutes, before the last pinwheel subsided.
Anne, recovering herself, sprang to open doors and windows and let out the gas and smoke which filled the room.
Everybody realized that even the explosion had not cleared the teacher's mental atmosphere.
Nobody, except Anthony Pye, dared whisper a word.
Ned Clay accidentally squeaked his pencil while working a sum, caught Anne's eye and wished the floor would open and swallow him up.
The geography class were whisked through a continent with a speed that made them dizzy.
The grammar class were parsed and analyzed within an inch of their lives.
He peered across his book at Anne, his black eyes sparkling with curiosity and mockery.
Annetta Bell was of two minds whether to go into hysterics again or not, especially as she didn't know just where the mouse had gone.
But she decided not to.
Who could take any comfort out of hysterics with a teacher so white-faced and so blazing-eyed standing before one? "Who put that mouse in my desk?" said Anne.
Her voice was quite low but it made a shiver go up and down Paul Irving's spine.
She looked at Anthony Pye, and Anthony Pye looked back unabashed and unashamed. "Anthony, was it you?" "Yes, it was," said Anthony insolently. Anne took her pointer from her desk.
It was a long, heavy hardwood pointer. "Come here, Anthony." It was far from being the most severe punishment Anthony Pye had ever undergone.
Anne, even the stormy-souled Anne she was at that moment, could not have punished any child cruelly.
But the pointer nipped keenly and finally Anthony's bravado failed him; he winced and the tears came to his eyes. Anne, conscience-stricken, dropped the pointer and told Anthony to go to his seat.
She sat down at her desk feeling ashamed, repentant, and bitterly mortified.
Her quick anger was gone and she would have given much to have been able to seek relief in tears.
So all her boasts had come to this . . . she had actually whipped one of her pupils.
And how Mr. Harrison would chuckle!
But worse than this, bitterest thought of all, she had lost her last chance of winning Anthony Pye.
Never would he like her now. Anne, by what somebody has called "a Herculaneum effort," kept back her tears until she got home that night.
Oh, this has been such a Jonah day, Marilla.
I'm so ashamed of myself.
I lost my temper and whipped Anthony Pye." "I'm glad to hear it," said Marilla with decision.
It's what you should have done long ago." "Oh, no, no, Marilla.
And I don't see how I can ever look those children in the face again.
I feel that I have humiliated myself to the very dust.
You don't know how cross and hateful and horrid I was.
I can't forget the expression in Paul Irving's eyes . . . he looked so surprised and disappointed.
When Anne's sobs grew quieter she said, very gently for her, "You take things too much to heart, Anne.
We all make mistakes . . . but people forget them.
And Jonah days come to everybody.
As for Anthony Pye, why need you care if he does dislike you?
He is the only one." "I can't help it.
I want everybody to love me and it hurts me so when anybody doesn't.
And Anthony never will now.
Oh, I just made an idiot of myself today, Marilla.
I'll tell you the whole story." Marilla listened to the whole story, and if she smiled at certain parts of it Anne never knew.
When the tale was ended she said briskly, "Well, never mind.
This day's done and there's a new one coming tomorrow, with no mistakes in it yet, as you used to say yourself.
Just come downstairs and have your supper.
She had a good sleep that night and awakened in the morning to find herself and the world transformed.
Anthony smiled . . . no, if the truth must be told, Anthony _grinned_ back.
He says he believes you are some good after all, even if you are a girl.
Says that whipping you gave him was 'just as good as a man's.'" "I never expected to win him by whipping him, though," said Anne, a little mournfully, feeling that her ideals had played her false somewhere.
But your birthday was in March!" "That wasn't my fault," laughed Anne.
If my parents had consulted me it would never have happened then.
I should have chosen to be born in spring, of course.
It must be delightful to come into the world with the mayflowers and violets.
You would always feel that you were their foster sister.
But since I didn't, the next best thing is to celebrate my birthday in the spring.
Priscilla is coming over Saturday and Jane will be home.
We'll all four start off to the woods and spend a golden day making the acquaintance of the spring.
We none of us really know her yet, but we'll meet her back there as we never can anywhere else.
I want to explore all those fields and lonely places anyhow.
I have a conviction that there are scores of beautiful nooks there that have never really been _seen_ although they may have been _looked_ at.
We'll make friends with wind and sky and sun, and bring home the spring in our hearts." "It _sounds_ awfully nice," said Diana, with some inward distrust of Anne's magic of words.
But won't it be very damp in some places yet?" "Oh, we'll wear rubbers," was Anne's concession to practicalities.
And I want you to come over early Saturday morning and help me prepare lunch.
I'm going to have the daintiest things possible . . . things that will match the spring, you understand . . . little jelly tarts and lady fingers, and drop cookies frosted with pink and yellow icing, and buttercup cake.
And we must have sandwiches too, though they're _not_ very poetical." Saturday proved an ideal day for a picnic . . . a day of breeze and blue, warm, sunny, with a little rollicking wind blowing across meadow and orchard.
Their blithe voices and laughter echoed down to him. "It's so easy to be happy on a day like this, isn't it?
Anne was saying, with true Anneish philosophy.
Let's try to make this a really golden day, girls, a day to which we can always look back with delight. We're to seek for beauty and refuse to see anything else.
Jane, you are thinking of something that went wrong in school yesterday." "How do you know?" gasped Jane, amazed. "Oh, I know the expression . . .
I've felt it often enough on my own face.
But put it out of your mind, there's a dear.
It will keep till Monday . . . or if it doesn't so much the better.
Oh, girls, girls, see that patch of violets!
There's something for memory's picture gallery. When I'm eighty years old . . . if I ever am . . .
I shall shut my eyes and see those violets just as I see them now.
Anyhow, we can tell all our thoughts today because we are going to have nothing but beautiful thoughts.
Everybody can say just what comes into her head. _That_ is conversation.
Here's a little path I never saw before.
Let's explore it." The path was a winding one, so narrow that the girls walked in single file and even then the fir boughs brushed their faces.
Under the firs were velvety cushions of moss, and further on, where the trees were smaller and fewer, the ground was rich in a variety of green growing things. "What a lot of elephant's ears," exclaimed Diana.
Later on in the season it would be dried up and its place filled with a rank growth of ferns; but now it was a glimmering placid sheet, round as a saucer and clear as crystal.
Everybody suggest a name and we'll draw lots.
Diana?" "Birch Pool," suggested Diana promptly. "Crystal Lake," said Jane. Anne, standing behind them, implored Priscilla with her eyes not to perpetrate another such name and Priscilla rose to the occasion with "Glimmer-glass.
Anne's selection was "The Fairies' Mirror." The names were written on strips of birch bark with a pencil Schoolma'am Jane produced from her pocket, and placed in Anne's hat. Then Priscilla shut her eyes and drew one.
Crystal Lake," read Jane triumphantly.
Across it they found the entrance to a lane striking up through the woods and voted to explore it also.
It rewarded their quest with a succession of pretty surprises.
First, skirting Mr. Sloane's pasture, came an archway of wild cherry trees all in bloom.
The girls swung their hats on their arms and wreathed their hair with the creamy, fluffy blossoms.
They are impish and malicious but they can't harm us, because they are not allowed to do evil in the spring.
There was one peeping at us around that old twisted fir; and didn't you see a group of them on that big freckly toadstool we just passed?
The good fairies always dwell in the sunshiny places." "I wish there really were fairies," said Jane.
Wouldn't it be nice to have three wishes granted you . . . or even only one?
What would you wish for, girls, if you could have a wish granted?
I'd wish to be rich and beautiful and clever." "I'd wish to be tall and slender," said Diana. "I would wish to be famous," said Priscilla.
In the other parts there would be summer and autumn . . . yes, and a bit of winter, too.
I think I want glittering snowy fields and white frosts in heaven sometimes.
Don't you, Jane?" "I . . .
I don't know," said Jane uncomfortably.
Jane was a good girl, a member of the church, who tried conscientiously to live up to her profession and believed everything she had been taught.
I told her we wouldn't be thinking of dresses at all there." "Oh, I think we will . . . a _little_," said Anne earnestly.
There'll be plenty of time in all eternity for it without neglecting more important things.
I believe we'll all wear beautiful dresses . . . or I suppose _raiment_ would be a more suitable way of speaking.
I shall want to wear pink for a few centuries at first . . . it would take me that long to get tired of it, I feel sure.
Just before them, hemmed in by beeches and firs but open to the south, was a little corner and in it a garden . . . or what had once been a garden.
A tumbledown stone dyke, overgrown with mosses and grass, surrounded it.
Along the eastern side ran a row of garden cherry trees, white as a snowdrift.
Anne only gazed in eloquent silence. "How in the world does it happen that there ever was a garden back here?" said Priscilla in amazement. "It must be Hester Gray's garden," said Diana.
I've heard mother speak of it but I never saw it before, and I wouldn't have supposed that it could be in existence still.
You've heard the story, Anne?" "No, but the name seems familiar to me." "Oh, you've seen it in the graveyard.
She is buried down there in the poplar corner.
You know the little brown stone with the opening gates carved on it and 'Sacred to the memory of Hester Gray, aged twenty-two.
Jordan Gray is buried right beside her but there's no stone to him.
It's a wonder Marilla never told you about it, Anne.
To be sure, it happened thirty years ago and everybody has forgotten." "Well, if there's a story we must have it," said Anne.
Let's sit right down here among the narcissi and Diana will tell it.
Why, girls, there are hundreds of them . . . they've spread over everything.
It looks as if the garden were carpeted with moonshine and sunshine combined.
This is a discovery worth making.
To think that I've lived within a mile of this place for six years and have never seen it before!
Now, Diana." "Long ago," began Diana, "this farm belonged to old Mr. David Gray.
He didn't live on it . . . he lived where Silas Sloane lives now.
He had one son, Jordan, and he went up to Boston one winter to work and while he was there he fell in love with a girl named Hester Murray.
She was working in a store and she hated it.
She'd been brought up in the country and she always wanted to get back.
When Jordan asked her to marry him she said she would if he'd take her away to some quiet spot where she'd see nothing but fields and trees.
So he brought her to Avonlea.
Well, Mr. Gray gave Jordan this farm and he built a little house back here and Jordan and Hester lived in it for four years.
She never went out much and hardly anybody went to see her except mother and Mrs. Lynde.
Jordan made her this garden and she was crazy about it and spent most of her time in it.
She wasn't much of a housekeeper but she had a knack with flowers.
And then she got sick.
Mother says she thinks she was in consumption before she ever came here.
She never really laid up but just grew weaker and weaker all the time.
Jordan wouldn't have anybody to wait on her.
He did it all himself and mother says he was as tender and gentle as a woman.
Every day he'd wrap her in a shawl and carry her out to the garden and she'd lie there on a bench quite happy.
They say she used to make Jordan kneel down by her every night and morning and pray with her that she might die out in the garden when the time came.
And her prayer was answered.
I wouldn't want it myself for a steady thing, because, although I love the fields and woods, I love people too.
But I can understand it in Hester.
And she got just what she wanted, which is something very few people do, I believe.
She had four beautiful years before she died. . . four years of perfect happiness, so I think she was to be envied more than pitied.
This is my adopted birthday, you know, and this garden and its story is the birthday gift it has given me.
Did your mother ever tell you what Hester Gray looked like, Diana?" "No . . . only just that she was pretty." "I'm rather glad of that, because I can imagine what she looked like, without being hampered by facts.
When they got hungry they had lunch in the prettiest spot of all . . . on the steep bank of a gurgling brook where white birches shot up out of long feathery grasses.
The girls sat down by the roots and did full justice to Anne's dainties, even the unpoetical sandwiches being greatly appreciated by hearty, unspoiled appetites sharpened by all the fresh air and exercise they had enjoyed.
Anne had brought glasses and lemonade for her guests, but for her own part drank cold brook water from a cup fashioned out of birch bark.
The cup leaked, and the water tasted of earth, as brook water is apt to do in spring; but Anne thought it more appropriate to the occasion than lemonade. "Look do you see that poem?" she said suddenly, pointing. "Where?
Oh, it's the most beautiful poem I ever saw." "I should rather call it a picture," said Jane.
A poem is lines and verses." "Oh dear me, no." Anne shook her head with its fluffy wild cherry coronal positively.
The lines and verses are only the outward garments of the poem and are no more really it than your ruffles and flounces are _you_, Jane.
The real poem is the soul within them . . . and that beautiful bit is the soul of an unwritten poem.
Only with shape and features of course.
I like to fancy souls as being made of light.
Jane's is an apple blossom, pink and wholesome and sweet." "And your own is a white violet, with purple streaks in its heart," finished Priscilla. Jane whispered to Diana that she really could not understand what they were talking about.
Could she? The girls went home by the light of a calm golden sunset, their baskets filled with narcissus blossoms from Hester's garden, some of which Anne carried to the cemetery next day and laid upon Hester's grave.
Minstrel robins were whistling in the firs and the frogs were singing in the marshes.
I had her last week, for, though she's too slow to stop quick, she's better than nobody.
But she's sick and can't come.
Timothy's sitting there, too, coughing and complaining.
He's been dying for ten years and he'll go on dying for ten years more.
That kind can't even die and have done with it . . . they can't stick to anything, even to being sick, long enough to finish it.
What did the specialist think of them?" she continued. "He was much pleased," said Anne brightly.
He says there is a great improvement in them and he thinks the danger of her losing her sight completely is past.
But he says she'll never be able to read much or do any fine hand-work again.
How are your preparations for your bazaar coming on?" The Ladies' Aid Society was preparing for a fair and supper, and Mrs. Lynde was the head and front of the enterprise. "Pretty well . . . and that reminds me.
Mrs. Allan thinks it would be nice to fix up a booth like an old-time kitchen and serve a supper of baked beans, doughnuts, pie, and so on.
We're collecting old-fashioned fixings everywhere.
Mrs. Simon Fletcher is going to lend us her mother's braided rugs and Mrs. Levi Boulter some old chairs and Aunt Mary Shaw will lend us her cupboard with the glass doors.
I suppose Marilla will let us have her brass candlesticks?
And we want all the old dishes we can get.
Mrs. Allan is specially set on having a real blue willow ware platter if we can find one.
But nobody seems to have one.
Do you know where we could get one?" "Miss Josephine Barry has one.
I'll write and ask her if she'll lend it for the occasion," said Anne. "Well, I wish you would.
I guess we'll have the supper in about a fortnight's time.
He was, in fact, considered in the light of a standing joke, for few of his weather predictions were ever fulfilled.
Mr. Elisha Wright, who labored under the impression that he was a local wit, used to say that nobody in Avonlea ever thought of looking in the Charlottetown dailies for weather probabilities.
No; they just asked Uncle Abe what it was going to be tomorrow and expected the opposite.
Nothing daunted, Uncle Abe kept on prophesying. "We want to have the fair over before the election comes off," continued Mrs. Lynde, "for the candidates will be sure to come and spend lots of money.
The Tories are bribing right and left, so they might as well be given a chance to spend their money honestly for once." Anne was a red-hot Conservative, out of loyalty to Matthew's memory, but she said nothing.
She knew better than to get Mrs. Lynde started on politics.
She had a letter for Marilla, postmarked from a town in British Columbia. "It's probably from the children's uncle," she said excitedly, when she got home.
Oh, Marilla, I wonder what he says about them." "The best plan might be to open it and see," said Marilla curtly.
He wants to know if we can keep them till the fall and he'll try and take them then.
We will, of course, won't we Marilla?" "I don't see that there is anything else for us to do," said Marilla rather grimly, although she felt a secret relief.
Anyhow they're not so much trouble as they were . . . or else we've got used to them.
I just peeped in and it looked so good I thought I'd take just a weeny taste.
I stuck my finger in . . .
Anne groaned . . . "and licked it clean.
It was in that question Marilla taught me last Sunday.
Why should we love God?
It says, 'Because He makes preserves, and redeems us.
Preserves is just a holy way of saying jam." "I must get a drink of water," said Anne hastily.
And besides, I didn't see when He'd find time to make jam if it's one endless Sabbath day, as the hymn says.
I don't believe I want to go to heaven.
Won't there ever be any Saturdays in heaven, Anne?" "Yes, Saturdays, and every other kind of beautiful days.
Davy and Dora were taught a hymn, a catechism question, and two Bible verses every Sunday.
Dora learned meekly and recited like a little machine, with perhaps as much understanding or interest as if she were one.
And he thinks it will be horrid to wear dresses and I think so too.
Why can't men angels wear trousers, Anne?
Chester Sloane is interested in those things, 'cause they're going to make a minister of him.
I'm going to be a storekeeper, like Mr. Blair, and keep heaps of candy and bananas.
But I'd rather like going to your kind of a heaven if they'd let me play a mouth organ instead of a harp.
The A.V.I.S. was in a flourishing condition, and had already accomplished wonders.
Early in the spring Mr. Major Spencer had redeemed his promise and had stumped, graded, and seeded down all the road front of his farm.
A dozen other men, some prompted by a determination not to let a Spencer get ahead of them, others goaded into action by Improvers in their own households, had followed his example.
The result was that there were long strips of smooth velvet turf where once had been unsightly undergrowth or brush.
The farm fronts that had not been done looked so badly by contrast that their owners were secretly shamed into resolving to see what they could do another spring.
Mr. Judson Parker _is going to rent all the road fence of his farm to a patent medicine company to paint advertisements on_." For once in her life Gertie Pye made all the sensation she desired.
But father met him this afternoon and asked him about it and he said it WAS true.
His farm is side-on to the Newbridge road and how perfectly awful it will look to see advertisements of pills and plasters all along it, don't you know?" The Improvers _did_ know, all too well.
Even the least imaginative among them could picture the grotesque effect of half a mile of board fence adorned with such advertisements.
All thought of church and school grounds vanished before this new danger.
Parliamentary rules and regulations were forgotten, and Anne, in despair, gave up trying to keep minutes at all.
Everybody knows what Judson Parker is.
He'd do _anything_ for money.
He hasn't a _spark_ of public spirit or _any_ sense of the beautiful." The prospect looked rather unpromising.
Judson Parker and his sister were the only Parkers in Avonlea, so that no leverage could be exerted by family connections.
Martha Parker was a lady of all too certain age who disapproved of young people in general and the Improvers in particular.
Judson was a jovial, smooth-spoken man, so uniformly goodnatured and bland that it was surprising how few friends he had. Perhaps he had got the better in too many business transactions. . . which seldom makes for popularity.
Perhaps she could coax him not to rent his fences." "Not she," said Gilbert emphatically.
I know Louisa Spencer well.
She doesn't 'believe' in Village Improvement Societies, but she _does_ believe in dollars and cents.
She can talk Judson over if anybody can." Anne protested.
She was willing to go and do the talking; but she must have others with her "for moral support.
Diana and Jane were therefore appointed to support her morally and the Improvers broke up, buzzing like angry bees with indignation.
Anne pleaded eloquently against his nefarious design and Jane and Diana supported her morally and valiantly.
I'll tell the agent he must use only handsome, tasty colors . . . red and yellow and so on.
Judson would slip away from him as smoothly as from us, although he _has_ taken to going to church quite regularly just now.
That is simply because Louisa Spencer's father is an elder and very particular about such things." "Judson Parker is the only man in Avonlea who would dream of renting his fences," said Jane indignantly.
Even Levi Boulter or Lorenzo White would never stoop to that, tightfisted as they are.
They would have too much respect for public opinion." Public opinion was certainly down on Judson Parker when the facts became known, but that did not help matters much.
Anne had no explanation to give.
Judson Parker had overtaken her on the road the preceding evening and told her that he had decided to humor the A.V.I.S. in its peculiar prejudice against patent medicine advertisements.
One was Judson Parker; the other was Jerry Corcoran, a Newbridge man against whom, as Mrs. Lynde would have told you in eloquent italics, nothing shady had ever been _proved_.
He was an agent for agricultural implements and a prominent personage in matters political.
Just as Anne emerged from under the overhanging beech boughs she heard Corcoran say, "If you'll vote for Amesbury, Parker . . . well, I've a note for that pair of harrows you've got in the spring.
I suppose you wouldn't object to having it back, eh?" "We . . . ll, since you put it in that way," drawled Judson with a grin, "I reckon I might as well do it.
A man must look out for his own interests in these hard times." Both saw Anne at this moment and conversation abruptly ceased.
Anne bowed frostily and walked on, with her chin slightly more tilted than usual.
Soon Judson Parker overtook her. "Have a lift, Anne?" he inquired genially. "Thank you, no," said Anne politely, but with a fine, needle-like disdain in her voice that pierced even Judson Parker's none too sensitive consciousness.
His face reddened and he twitched his reins angrily; but the next second prudential considerations checked him.
He looked uneasily at Anne, as she walked steadily on, glancing neither to the right nor to the left.
Had she heard Corcoran's unmistakable offer and his own too plain acceptance of it?
If he couldn't put his meaning into less dangerous phrases he'd get into trouble some of these long-come-shorts.
And confound redheaded school-ma'ams with a habit of popping out of beechwoods where they had no business to be.
If Anne had heard, Judson Parker, measuring her corn in his own half bushel, as the country saying went, and cheating himself thereby, as such people generally do, believed that she would tell it far and wide.
Judson Parker knew that Mr. Spencer looked somewhat askance at him as it was; he could not afford to take any risks. "Ahem . . .
Anne, I've been wanting to see you about that little matter we were discussing the other day.
I've decided not to let my fences to that company after all.
I didn't suppose you would.
Of course, I was only stringing Jerry . . . he thinks he's so all-fired cute and smart. I've no intention of voting for Amesbury.
I'm going to vote for Grant as I've always done . . . you'll see that when the election comes off. I just led Jerry on to see if he would commit himself.
I wouldn't have mentioned the disgraceful thing to a soul anyhow, so my conscience is clear on _that_ score.
She dropped the key into her pocket with a sigh of satisfaction.
Anne felt at peace with the world and herself as she walked down the hill with her basket of flowers in her hand.
Since the earliest mayflowers Anne had never missed her weekly pilgrimage to Matthew's grave.
Everyone else in Avonlea, except Marilla, had already forgotten quiet, shy, unimportant Matthew Cuthbert; but his memory was still green in Anne's heart and always would be.
He swung down and joined Anne, smiling; but there were traces of tears on his cheeks. "I thought I'd wait for you, teacher, because I knew you were going to the graveyard," he said, slipping his hand into hers.
I'm going there, too . . .
I'm taking this bouquet of geraniums to put on Grandpa Irving's grave for grandma.
And look, teacher, I'm going to put this bunch of white roses beside Grandpa's grave in memory of my little mother. . . because I can't go to her grave to put it there.
But don't you think she'll know all about it, just the same?" "Yes, I am sure she will, Paul." "You see, teacher, it's just three years today since my little mother died.
It's such a long, long time but it hurts just as much as ever . . . and I miss her just as much as ever.
Sometimes it seems to me that I just can't bear it, it hurts so." Paul's voice quivered and his lip trembled.
You're so good at understanding, teacher.
Nobody else understands so well . . . not even grandma, although she's so good to me.
Father understood pretty well, but still I couldn't talk much to him about mother, because it made him feel so bad.
When he put his hand over his face I always knew it was time to stop.
Someday, when I'm brought up, I'll go back to father and we're never going to be parted again." Paul had talked so much to Anne about his mother and father that she felt as if she had known them.
I never got really acquainted with him until after my little mother died. But he's splendid when you do get to know him.
I love him the best in all the world, and Grandma Irving next, and then you, teacher.
I'd love you next to father if it wasn't my _duty_ to love Grandma Irving best, because she's doing so much for me. _You_ know, teacher.
I wish she would leave the lamp in my room till I go to sleep, though.
She takes it right out as soon as she tucks me up because she says I mustn't be a coward.
I'm _not_ scared, but I'd _rather_ have the light.
My little mother used always to sit beside me and hold my hand till I went to sleep.
I expect she spoiled me.
Mothers do sometimes, you know." No, Anne did not know this, although she might imagine it.
She thought sadly of _her_ "little mother," the mother who had thought her so "perfectly beautiful" and who had died so long ago and was buried beside her boyish husband in that unvisited grave far away.
I believe it has come already, for Grandma is keeping the bookcase drawer locked and that is something new.
And when I asked her why, she just looked mysterious and said little boys mustn't be too curious.
It's very exciting to have a birthday, isn't it?
You'd never think it to look at me, would you?
Grandma says I'm very small for my age and that it's all because I don't eat enough porridge.
I've prayed every night that God would give me enough grace to enable me to eat every bit of my porridge in the mornings.
But I've never been able to do it yet, and whether it's because I have too little grace or too much porridge I really can't decide.
Grandma says father was brought up on porridge, and it certainly did work well in his case, for you ought to see the shoulders he has.
But sometimes," concluded Paul with a sigh and a meditative air "I really think porridge will be the death of me." Anne permitted herself a smile, since Paul was not looking at her.
All Avonlea knew that old Mrs. Irving was bringing her grandson up in accordance with the good, old-fashioned methods of diet and morals. "Let us hope not, dear," she said cheerfully.
How are your rock people coming on?
Does the oldest Twin still continue to behave himself?" "He _has_ to," said Paul emphatically.
He knows I won't associate with him if he doesn't.
He is really full of wickedness, _I_ think." "And has Nora found out about the Golden Lady yet?" "No; but I think she suspects.
I'm the only person who can see them.
But you could see rock people of your own.
You're one of the kind that can.
We're both that kind. _You_ know, teacher," he added, squeezing her hand chummily.
Isn't it splendid to be that kind, teacher?" "Splendid," Anne agreed, gray shining eyes looking down into blue shining ones.
Anne and Paul both knew "How fair the realm Imagination opens to the view," and both knew the way to that happy land.
There the rose of joy bloomed immortal by dale and stream; clouds never darkened the sunny sky; sweet bells never jangled out of tune; and kindred spirits abounded.
The knowledge of that land's geography . . . "east o' the sun, west o' the moon" . . . is priceless lore, not to be bought in any market place.
It must be the gift of the good fairies at birth and the years can never deface it or take it away.
It is better to possess it, living in a garret, than to be the inhabitant of palaces without it. The Avonlea graveyard was as yet the grass-grown solitude it had always been.
Ever since the day of the spring picnic Anne had put flowers on Hester's grave when she visited Matthew's.
They walked home together. Mrs. Allan's face was not the face of the girlbride whom the minister had brought to Avonlea five years before.
It had lost some of its bloom and youthful curves, and there were fine, patient lines about eyes and mouth.
A tiny grave in that very cemetery accounted for some of them; and some new ones had come during the recent illness, now happily over, of her little son.
I could roll the word as a sweet morsel under my tongue.
I think the summer is going to be lovely.
For one thing, Mrs. Morgan is coming to the Island in July and Priscilla is going to bring her up.
I feel one of my old 'thrills' at the mere thought." "I hope you'll have a good time, Anne.
You've worked very hard this past year and you have succeeded." "Oh, I don't know.
I've come so far short in so many things.
I haven't done what I meant to do when I began to teach last fall.
I haven't lived up to my ideals." "None of us ever do," said Mrs. Allan with a sigh.
But then, Anne, you know what Lowell says, 'Not failure but low aim is crime.
We must have ideals and try to live up to them, even if we never quite succeed.
Life would be a sorry business without them.
With them it's grand and great. Hold fast to your ideals, Anne." "I shall try.
But I have to let go most of my theories," said Anne, laughing a little.
And it agreed with him.
You have had no trouble with him since and he has come to think there's nobody like you.
Your kindness won his love after the idea that a 'girl was no good' was rooted out of his stubborn mind." "He may have deserved it, but that is not the point.
If I had calmly and deliberately decided to whip him because I thought it a just punishment for him I would not feel over it as I do.
But the truth is, Mrs. Allan, that I just flew into a temper and whipped him because of that.
I wasn't thinking whether it was just or unjust . . . even if he hadn't deserved it I'd have done it just the same.
That is what humiliates me." "Well, we all make mistakes, dear, so just put it behind you.
We should regret our mistakes and learn from them, but never carry them forward into the future with us.
There goes Gilbert Blythe on his wheel . . . home for his vacation too, I suppose.
How are you and he getting on with your studies?" "Pretty well.
We plan to finish the Virgil tonight . . . there are only twenty lines to do.
Then we are not going to study any more until September." "Do you think you will ever get to college?" "Oh, I don't know.
Anne looked dreamily afar to the opal-tinted horizon.
Marilla's eyes will never be much better than they are now, although we are so thankful to think that they will not get worse.
And then there are the twins . . . somehow I don't believe their uncle will ever really send for them.
We make our own lives wherever we are, after all . . . college can only help us to do it more easily. They are broad or narrow according to what we put into them, not what we get out.
Do you know, Mrs. Allan, I'm so thankful for friendship.
It beautifies life so much." "True friendship is a very helpful thing indeed," said Mrs. Allan, "and we should have a very high ideal of it, and never sully it by any failure in truth and sincerity.
I fear the name of friendship is often degraded to a kind of intimacy that has nothing of real friendship in it." "Yes . . . like Gertie Pye's and Julia Bell's.
They are very intimate and go everywhere together; but Gertie is always saying nasty things of Julia behind her back and everybody thinks she is jealous of her because she is always so pleased when anybody criticizes Julia.
I think it is desecration to call _that_ friendship.
If we have friends we should look only for the best in them and give them the best that is in us, don't you think?
Then friendship would be the most beautiful thing in the world." "Friendship _is_ very beautiful," smiled Mrs. Allan, "but some day . . ." Then she paused abruptly.
In the delicate, white-browed face beside her, with its candid eyes and mobile features, there was still far more of the child than of the woman.
Anne's heart so far harbored only dreams of friendship and ambition, and Mrs. Allan did not wish to brush the bloom from her sweet unconsciousness.
You've no idea." "I'll get you a piece of bread and butter in a minute," said Anne absently.
He looked with approval at the generous slice Anne presently brought to him.
You always put such a nice lot of butter on it, Anne.
Marilla spreads it pretty thin.
It slips down a lot easier when there's plenty of butter." The slice "slipped down" with tolerable ease, judging from its rapid disappearance.
Davy slid head first off the sofa, turned a double somersault on the rug, and then sat up and announced decidedly, "Anne, I've made up my mind about heaven.
I don't want to go there." "Why not?" asked Anne gravely. "Cause heaven is in Simon Fletcher's garret, and I don't like Simon Fletcher." "Heaven in . . .
Simon Fletcher's garret!" gasped Anne, too amazed even to laugh.
Davy Keith, whatever put such an extraordinary idea into your head?" "Milty Boulter says that's where it is.
It was last Sunday in Sunday School.
The lesson was about Elijah and Elisha, and I up and asked Miss Rogerson where heaven was.
Miss Rogerson looked awful offended.
She was cross anyhow, because when she'd asked us what Elijah left Elisha when he went to heaven Milty Boulter said, 'His old clo'es,' and us fellows all laughed before we thought.
I wish you could think first and do things afterwards, 'cause then you wouldn't do them.
But Milty didn't mean to be disrespeckful.
He just couldn't think of the name of the thing.
Miss Rogerson said heaven was where God was and I wasn't to ask questions like that.
Milty nudged me and said in a whisper, 'Heaven's in Uncle Simon's garret and I'll esplain about it on the road home.
So when we was coming home he esplained.
Milty's a great hand at esplaining things.
Even if he don't know anything about a thing he'll make up a lot of stuff and so you get it esplained all the same.
His mother is Mrs. Simon's sister and he went with her to the funeral when his cousin, Jane Ellen, died.
The minister said she'd gone to heaven, though Milty says she was lying right before them in the coffin.
But he s'posed they carried the coffin to the garret afterwards.
Well, when Milty and his mother went upstairs after it was all over to get her bonnet he asked her where heaven was that Jane Ellen had gone to, and she pointed right to the ceiling and said, 'Up there.
Milty knew there wasn't anything but the garret over the ceiling, so that's how _he_ found out.
And he's been awful scared to go to his Uncle Simon's ever since." Anne took Davy on her knee and did her best to straighten out this theological tangle also.
She had just succeeded in convincing Davy that heaven was _not_ in Simon Fletcher's garret when Marilla came in from the garden, where she and Dora had been picking peas.
Dora was an industrious little soul and never happier than when "helping" in various small tasks suited to her chubby fingers.
She fed chickens, picked up chips, wiped dishes, and ran errands galore.
She was neat, faithful and observant; she never had to be told how to do a thing twice and never forgot any of her little duties.
I've had a letter from Priscilla and she says that Mrs. Morgan is on the Island, and that if it is fine Thursday they are going to drive up to Avonlea and will reach here about twelve.
They will spend the afternoon with us and go to the hotel at White Sands in the evening, because some of Mrs. Morgan's American friends are staying there.
Oh, Marilla, isn't it wonderful?
I can hardly believe I'm not dreaming." "I daresay Mrs. Morgan is a lot like other people," said Marilla drily, although she did feel a trifle excited herself.
Mrs. Morgan was a famous woman and a visit from her was no commonplace occurrence. "They'll be here to dinner, then?" "Yes; and oh, Marilla, may I cook every bit of the dinner myself?
I want to feel that I can do something for the author of 'The Rosebud Garden,' if it is only to cook a dinner for her.
You won't mind, will you?" "Goodness, I'm not so fond of stewing over a hot fire in July that it would vex me very much to have someone else do it.
But I want to have everything as nice and dainty as possible.
Davy-boy, don't leave those peapods on the back stairs . . . someone might slip on them.
I'll have a light soup to begin with . . . you know I can make lovely cream-of-onion soup . . . and then a couple of roast fowls.
I'll have the two white roosters.
I have real affection for those roosters and they've been pets ever since the gray hen hatched out just the two of them . . . little balls of yellow down.
But I know they would have to be sacrificed sometime, and surely there couldn't be a worthier occasion than this.
I'll make the pies and lady fingers tomorrow and do up my white muslin dress.
And I must tell Diana tonight, for she'll want to do up hers.
Mrs. Morgan's heroines are nearly always dressed in white muslin, and Diana and I have always resolved that that was what we would wear if we ever met her.
It will be such a delicate compliment, don't you think?
Davy, dear, you mustn't poke peapods into the cracks of the floor.
I must ask Mr. and Mrs. Allan and Miss Stacy to dinner, too, for they're all very anxious to meet Mrs. Morgan.
It's so fortunate she's coming while Miss Stacy is here.
Davy dear, don't sail the peapods in the water bucket . . . go out to the trough.
You know I can make splendid lettuce salad." "Indeed you, may" said Anne unselfishly.
And I shall want you to help me decorate too.
I mean to have the parlor simply a _bower_ of blossoms . . . and the dining table is to be adorned with wild roses.
Oh, I do hope everything will go smoothly.
Mrs. Morgan's heroines _never_ get into scrapes or are taken at a disadvantage, and they are always so selfpossessed and such good housekeepers.
They seem to be _born_ good housekeepers.
You remember that _Gertrude_ in 'Edgewood Days' kept house for her father when she was only eight years old.
When I was eight years old I hardly knew how to do a thing except bring up children.
Mrs. Morgan must be an authority on girls when she has written so much about them, and I do want her to have a good opinion of us.
I've imagined it all out a dozen different ways . . . what she'll look like, and what she'll say, and what I'll say.
And I'm so anxious about my nose.
There are seven freckles on it, as you can see.
They came at the A.V.I S. picnic, when I went around in the sun without my hat.
I can't recall a freckled one among them." "Yours are not very noticeable," comforted Diana.
But Anne felt that a fleck of dust would be a desecration in a house that was to be honored by a visit from Charlotte E.
I should have a guilty conscience if I thought this closet was in disorder when Mrs. Morgan was in the house.
I'll be good, you bet.
I meant to go over to Mr. Harrison's and fire peas from my new popgun at Ginger but another day'll do as well.
I weigh four pounds more than I did in July.
Anne, _where_ will this end?
Mrs. Morgan's heroines are all tall and slender." "Well, let's forget our troubles and think of our mercies," said Anne gaily.
Mrs. Allan says that whenever we think of anything that is a trial to us we should also think of something nice that we can set over against it.
Every snip of the scissors, as rose and peony and bluebell fell, seemed to chirp, "Mrs. Morgan is coming today.
But it is wonderful what flowers can accomplish if you give them a fair chance; when Anne and Diana finished with the room you would not have recognized it. A great blue bowlful of snowballs overflowed on the polished table.
The shining black mantelpiece was heaped with roses and ferns.
Every shelf of the what-not held a sheaf of bluebells; the dark corners on either side of the grate were lighted up with jars full of glowing crimson peonies, and the grate itself was aflame with yellow poppies.
Anne prepared the potatoes and Diana got the peas and beans ready.
Was he redeeming his promise to be good?
To be sure, he insisted on remaining in the kitchen, for his curiosity wanted to see all that went on.
We must have dinner at sharp one, for the soup must be served as soon as it's done." Serious indeed were the toilet rites presently performed in the east gable.
Anne peered anxiously at her nose and rejoiced to see that its freckles were not at all prominent, thanks either to the lemon juice or to the unusual flush on her cheeks.
All Mrs. Morgan's heroines converse so beautifully.
But I'm afraid I'll be tongue-tied and stupid. And I'll be sure to say 'I seen.
I haven't often said it since Miss Stacy taught here; but in moments of excitement it's sure to pop out. Anne, if I were to say 'I seen' before Mrs. Morgan I'd die of mortification.
Marilla had dressed herself and the twins, and looked more excited than she had ever been known to look before.
At half past twelve the Allans and Miss Stacy came.
Everything was going well but Anne was beginning to feel nervous.
It was surely time for Priscilla and Mrs. Morgan to arrive.
She made frequent trips to the gate and looked as anxiously down the lane as ever her namesake in the Bluebeard story peered from the tower casement. "Suppose they don't come at all?" she said piteously. "Don't suppose it.
She had, in accordance with her promise to Mrs. Lynde, written to Miss Barry of Charlottetown, asking for the loan of it.
Miss Barry was an old friend of Anne's, and she promptly sent the platter out, with a letter exhorting Anne to be very careful of it, for she had paid twenty dollars for it.
Davy had to climb on the table and reach over to the shelf at a dangerous angle . . . something he had been forbidden by Marilla to do, as he had come to grief once before in the experiment.
The result in this instance was disastrous.
Davy slipped and came sprawling squarely down on the lemon pies.
His clean blouse was ruined for that time and the pies for all time.
It is, however, an ill wind that blows nobody good, and the pig was eventually the gainer by Davy's mischance. "Davy Keith," said Marilla, shaking him by the shoulder, "didn't I forbid you to climb up on that table again?
Didn't I?" "I forgot," whimpered Davy.
You've told me not to do such an awful lot of things that I can't remember them all." "Well, you march upstairs and stay there till after dinner.
Perhaps you'll get them sorted out in your memory by that time.
No, Anne, never you mind interceding for him.
I'm not punishing him because he spoiled your pies . . . that was an accident.
I'm punishing him for his disobedience.
Go, Davy, I say." "Ain't I to have any dinner?" wailed Davy. "You can come down after dinner is over and have yours in the kitchen." "Oh, all right," said Davy, somewhat comforted.
I know Anne'll save some nice bones for me, won't you, Anne?
Cause you know I didn't mean to fall on the pies.
Anne was in an agony.
Everybody is hungry and it's no use waiting any longer.
I put a spoonful of sugar in. We always do.
Don't you like it?" "But _I_ put a spoonful in too, when I set them on the stove," said Diana. Anne dropped her masher and tasted the peas also.
Then she made a grimace. "How awful!
I never dreamed you had put sugar in, because I knew your mother never does.
I happened to think of it, for a wonder . . .
I'm always forgetting it . . . so I popped a spoonful in." "It's a case of too many cooks, I guess," said Marilla, who had listened to this dialogue with a rather guilty expression.
There were no green peas on the dinner table that day, however. "Well," said Anne, sobering down again with a sigh of recollection, "we have the salad anyhow and I don't think anything has happened to the beans.
Let's carry the things in and get it over." It cannot be said that that dinner was a notable success socially.
The Allans and Miss Stacy exerted themselves to save the situation and Marilla's customary placidity was not noticeably ruffled.
But Anne and Diana, between their disappointment and the reaction from their excitement of the forenoon, could neither talk nor eat.
The measure of that day's tribulations was not yet full.
Just as Mr. Allan had finished returning thanks there arose a strange, ominous sound on the stairs, as of some hard, heavy object bounding from step to step, finishing up with a grand smash at the bottom.
Everybody ran out into the hall.
I set that platter there and forgot all about it.
Then Diana went home with a headache and Anne went with another to the east gable, where she stayed until Marilla came home from the post office at sunset, with a letter from Priscilla, written the day before.
And I suppose the events of today have a funny side too.
Perhaps when Diana and I are old and gray we shall be able to laugh over them.
When I think something nice is going to happen I seem to fly right up on the wings of anticipation; and then the first thing I realize I drop down to earth with a thud.
But really, Marilla, the flying part _is_ glorious as long as it lasts . . . it's like soaring through a sunset. I think it almost pays for the thud." "Well, maybe it does," admitted Marilla.
I'd rather walk calmly along and do without both flying and thud.
But everybody has her own way of living . . .
I used to think there was only one right way . . . but since I've had you and the twins to bring up I don't feel so sure of it.
What are you going to do about Miss Barry's platter?" "Pay her back the twenty dollars she paid for it, I suppose.
I'm so thankful it wasn't a cherished heirloom because then no money could replace it." "Maybe you could find one like it somewhere and buy it for her." "I'm afraid not.
Platters as old as that are very scarce.
Mrs. Lynde couldn't find one anywhere for the supper.
I only wish I could, for of course Miss Barry would just as soon have one platter as another, if both were equally old and genuine.
Marilla, look at that big star over Mr. Harrison's maple grove, with all that holy hush of silvery sky about it.
It gives me a feeling that is like a prayer.
After all, when one can see stars and skies like that, little disappointments and accidents can't matter so much, can they?" "Where's Davy?" said Marilla, with an indifferent glance at the star. "In bed.
I've promised to take him and Dora to the shore for a picnic tomorrow.
I've lived here for sixty years and I've never been on the pond yet." "Well, it's never too late to mend," said Anne roguishly.
Suppose you come with us tomorrow.
We'll shut Green Gables up and spend the whole day at the shore, daffing the world aside." "No, thank you," said Marilla, with indignant emphasis.
I'd be a nice sight, wouldn't I, rowing down the pond in a flat?
I think I hear Rachel pronouncing on it.
There's Mr. Harrison driving away somewhere. Do you suppose there is any truth in the gossip that Mr. Harrison is going to see Isabella Andrews?" "No, I'm sure there isn't.
He just called there one evening on business with Mr. Harmon Andrews and Mrs. Lynde saw him and said she knew he was courting because he had a white collar on.
I don't believe Mr. Harrison will ever marry.
He seems to have a prejudice against marriage." "Well, you can never tell about those old bachelors.
I've heard him say that's the only time a man needs to be particular about his appearance, because if he looks prosperous the party of the second part won't be so likely to try to cheat him.
I really feel sorry for Mr. Harrison; I don't believe he feels satisfied with his life.
It must be very lonely to have no one to care about except a parrot, don't you think?
But I notice Mr. Harrison doesn't like to be pitied.
Nobody does, I imagine." "There's Gilbert coming up the lane," said Marilla.
If he wants you to go for a row on the pond mind you put on your coat and rubbers.
There's a heavy dew tonight." XVIII An Adventure on the Tory Road "Anne," said Davy, sitting up in bed and propping his chin on his hands, "Anne, where is sleep?
Where is it?" Anne was kneeling at the west gable window watching the sunset sky that was like a great flower with petals of crocus and a heart of fiery yellow.
But she felt rather ashamed of saying it; for had she not, in keen remembrance of many similar snubs administered in her own early years, solemnly vowed that she would never tell any child it was too little to understand?
Yet here she was doing it . . . so wide sometimes is the gulf between theory and practice. "Well, I'm doing my best to grow," said Davy, "but it's a thing you can't hurry much.
If Marilla wasn't so stingy with her jam I believe I'd grow a lot faster." "Marilla is not stingy, Davy," said Anne severely.
It is very ungrateful of you to say such a thing." "There's another word that means the same thing and sounds a lot better, but I don't just remember it," said Davy, frowning intently.
I heard Marilla say she was it, herself, the other day." "If you mean _economical_, it's a _very_ different thing from being stingy.
It is an excellent trait in a person if she is economical.
If Marilla had been stingy she wouldn't have taken you and Dora when your mother died.
Would you have liked to live with Mrs. Wiggins?" "You just bet I wouldn't!
Davy was emphatic on that point.
Nor I don't want to go out to Uncle Richard neither.
I'd far rather live here, even if Marilla is that long-tailed word when it comes to jam, 'cause _you're_ here, Anne.
Say, Anne, won't you tell me a story 'fore I go to sleep?
I don't want a fairy story.
Anne threw her white shawl over her head and hastened through the Haunted Wood and across Mr. Bell's pasture corner to Orchard Slope. "I've good news for you, Anne," said Diana.
Mother and I have just got home from Carmody, and I saw Mary Sentner from Spencer vale in Mr. Blair's store.
She says the old Copp girls on the Tory Road have a willow-ware platter and she thinks it's exactly like the one we had at the supper.
It will be such a weight off my mind, for I have to go to town day after tomorrow and how can I face your Aunt Josephine without a willow-ware platter?
It was ten miles to Spencervale and the day was not especially pleasant for traveling.
It was very warm and windless, and the dust on the road was such as might have been expected after six weeks of dry weather. "Oh, I do wish it would rain soon," sighed Anne.
Everything is so parched up.
The poor fields just seem pitiful to me and the trees seem to be stretching out their hands pleading for rain.
As for my garden, it hurts me every time I go into it.
I suppose I shouldn't complain about a garden when the farmers' crops are suffering so.
The Tory government ran the road through when they were in power just to show they were doing something." Diana's father was a Liberal, for which reason she and Anne never discussed politics.
Green Gables folk had always been Conservatives. Finally the girls came to the old Copp homestead . . . a place of such exceeding external neatness that even Green Gables would have suffered by contrast.
The house was a very old-fashioned one, situated on a slope, which fact had necessitated the building of a stone basement under one end.
The house and out-buildings were all whitewashed to a condition of blinding perfection and not a weed was visible in the prim kitchen garden surrounded by its white paling. "The shades are all down," said Diana ruefully.
I believe that nobody is home." This proved to be the case.
The girls looked at each other in perplexity. "I don't know what to do," said Anne.
If I were sure the platter was the right kind I would not mind waiting until they came home.
The shade isn't down, so if we climbed up on the roof of that little house we could look into the pantry and might be able to see the platter.
The Copp girls had given up keeping ducks . . . "because they were such untidy birds". . . and the house had not been in use for some years, save as an abode of correction for setting hens.
So much she saw before the catastrophe came.
There are some long splinters sticking into me.
But she could not release herself. "Could I pull you out if I crawled up?" suggested Diana. Anne shook her head hopelessly. "No . . . the splinters hurt too badly.
If you can find an axe you might chop me out, though.
If you do the story of this will get out everywhere and I shall be ashamed to show my face. No, we must just wait until the Copp girls come home and bind them to secrecy.
They'll know where the axe is and get me out.
I'm not uncomfortable, as long as I keep perfectly still . . . not uncomfortable in _body_ I mean.
I wonder what the Copp girls value this house at.
I shall have to pay for the damage I've done, but I wouldn't mind that if I were only sure they would understand my motive in peeping in at their pantry window.
Oh dear, this is a dreadful predicament.
I wouldn't mind my misfortunes so much if they were romantic, as Mrs. Morgan's heroines' always are, but they are always just simply ridiculous.
Fancy what the Copp girls will think when they drive into their yard and see a girl's head and shoulders sticking out of the roof of one of their outhouses. Listen . . . is that a wagon?
A thunderstorm seemed a trifle in comparison with what had already happened.
You'd better drive the horse and buggy into that open shed.
Fortunately my parasol is in the buggy.
Here . . . take my hat with you.
There she sat and watched the resulting downpour, which was so thick and heavy that she could hardly see Anne through it, holding the parasol bravely over her bare head.
There was not a great deal of thunder, but for the best part of an hour the rain came merrily down.
Occasionally Anne slanted back her parasol and waved an encouraging hand to her friend; But conversation at that distance was quite out of the question.
Finally the rain ceased, the sun came out, and Diana ventured across the puddles of the yard. "Did you get very wet?" she asked anxiously. "Oh, no," returned Anne cheerfully.
My head and shoulders are quite dry and my skirt is only a little damp where the rain beat through the laths.
Don't pity me, Diana, for I haven't minded it at all.
I kept thinking how much good the rain will do and how glad my garden must be for it, and imagining what the flowers and buds would think when the drops began to fall.
I imagined out a most interesting dialogue between the asters and the sweet peas and the wild canaries in the lilac bush and the guardian spirit of the garden.
When I go home I mean to write it down.
Anne folded up her dripping parasol, put on her hat, spread the wrapping paper on a shingle Diana handed up, and wrote out her garden idyl under conditions that could hardly be considered as favorable to literature.
There is no _plot_ in it, you see.
It's just a string of fancies.
I like writing such things, but of course nothing of the sort would ever do for publication, for editors insist on plots, so Priscilla says.
She hurriedly unlocked the back door, produced the axe, and with a few skillfull blows set Anne free.
The latter, somewhat tired and stiff, ducked down into the interior of her prison and thankfully emerged into liberty once more. "Miss Copp," she said earnestly.
I assure you I looked into your pantry window _only_ to discover if you had a willow-ware platter.
I didn't see anything else-I didn't _look_ for anything else." "Bless you, that's all right," said Miss Sarah amiably.
You needn't worry-there's no harm done.
Thank goodness, we Copps keep our pantries presentable at all times and don't care who sees into them.
As for that old duckhouse, I'm glad it's smashed, for maybe now Martha will agree to having it taken down.
She never would before for fear it might come in handy sometime and I've had to whitewash it every spring.
But you might as well argue with a post as with Martha.
She went to town today-I drove her to the station.
And you want to buy my platter.
Well, what will you give for it?" "Twenty dollars," said Anne, who was never meant to match business wits with a Copp, or she would not have offered her price at the start. "Well, I'll see," said Miss Sarah cautiously.
That platter is mine fortunately, or I'd never dare to sell it when Martha wasn't here.
As it is, I daresay she'll raise a fuss.
Martha's the boss of this establishment I can tell you.
I'm getting awful tired of living under another woman's thumb.
But come in, come in. You must be real tired and hungry.
I'll do the best I can for you in the way of tea but I warn you not to expect anything but bread and butter and some cowcumbers.
Martha locked up all the cake and cheese and preserves afore she went.
She always does, because she says I'm too extravagant with them if company comes." The girls were hungry enough to do justice to any fare, and they enjoyed Miss Sarah's excellent bread and butter and "cowcumbers" thoroughly.
When the meal was over Miss Sarah said, "I don't know as I mind selling the platter.
But it's worth twenty-five dollars.
It's a very old platter." Diana gave Anne's foot a gentle kick under the table, meaning, "Don't agree-she'll let it go for twenty if you hold out.
But Anne was not minded to take any chances in regard to that precious platter.
She promptly agreed to give twenty-five and Miss Sarah looked as if she felt sorry she hadn't asked for thirty. "Well, I guess you may have it.
I want all the money I can scare up just now.
The fact is-" Miss Sarah threw up her head importantly, with a proud flush on her thin cheeks-"I'm going to be married-to Luther Wallace.
He wanted me twenty years ago.
I liked him real well but he was poor then and father packed him off.
I s'pose I shouldn't have let him go so meek but I was timid and frightened of father.
We've had a rather trying time but it's over now.
I've got the platter, and that rain has laid the dust beautifully.
So 'all's well that ends well.'" "We're not home yet," said Diana rather pessimistically, "and there's no telling what may happen before we are.
Such a day came late in August.
He sprang up radiantly at sight of her. "Oh, I'm so glad you've come, teacher," he said eagerly, "because Grandma's away.
You'll stay and have tea with me, won't you?
It's so lonesome to have tea all by oneself. _You_ know, teacher.
I've had serious thoughts of asking Young Mary Joe to sit down and eat her tea with me, but I expect Grandma wouldn't approve.
She says the French have to be kept in their place.
And anyhow, it's difficult to talk with Young Mary Joe.
She just laughs and says, 'Well, yous do beat all de kids I ever knowed.
That isn't my idea of conversation." "Of course I'll stay to tea," said Anne gaily.
I was dying to be asked.
But it depends on Mary Joe.
I heard Grandma tell her before she left that she wasn't to give me any shortcake because it was too rich for little boys' stomachs.
But maybe Mary Joe will cut some for you if I promise I won't eat any.
She's not a naturally unreasonable person, but she has learned by experience that it doesn't do to disobey Grandma's orders.
Grandma is an excellent woman but people must do as she tells them.
She was very much pleased with me this morning because I managed at last to eat all my plateful of porridge.
It was a great effort but I succeeded.
Grandma says she thinks she'll make a man of me yet.
But, teacher, I want to ask you a very important question.
You will answer it truthfully, won't you?" "I'll try," promised Anne. "Do you think I'm wrong in my upper story?" asked Paul, as if his very existence depended on her reply. "Goodness, no, Paul," exclaimed Anne in amazement.
What put such an idea into your head?" "Mary Joe . . . but she didn't know I heard her.
Mrs. Peter Sloane's hired girl, Veronica, came to see Mary Joe last evening and I heard them talking in the kitchen as I was going through the hall.
I heard Mary Joe say, 'Dat Paul, he is de queeres' leetle boy.
I tink dere's someting wrong in his upper story.
I couldn't sleep last night for ever so long, thinking of it, and wondering if Mary Joe was right.
I couldn't bear to ask Grandma about it somehow, but I made up my mind I'd ask you.
I'm so glad you think I'm all right in my upper story." "Of course you are.
I'm perfectly happy now, teacher, thanks to you.
It wouldn't be nice to have something wrong in your upper story, would it, teacher?
That is the time I ache to tell people things, and when nobody else is handy I just _have_ to tell Mary Joe.
But after this I won't, if it makes her imagine I'm wrong in my upper story.
But I hope Davy won't be there when I go because he makes faces at me.
I don't mind _very_ much because he is such a little boy and I am quite a big one, but still it is not pleasant to have faces made at you.
And Davy makes such terrible ones.
Sometimes I am frightened he will never get his face straightened out again.
He makes them at me in church when I ought to be thinking of sacred things.
Dora likes me though, and I like her, but not so well as I did before she told Minnie May Barry that she meant to marry me when I grew up.
Mrs. Lynde was down here one day last week having tea with Grandma, and Grandma made me show her my little mother's picture . . . the one father sent me for my birthday present.
I didn't exactly want to show it to Mrs. Lynde.
Mrs. Lynde is a good, kind woman, but she isn't the sort of person you want to show your mother's picture to. _You_ know, teacher.
But of course I obeyed Grandma.
Mrs. Lynde said she was very pretty but kind of actressy looking, and must have been an awful lot younger than father.
Then she said, 'Some of these days your pa will be marrying again likely.
How will you like to have a new ma, Master Paul?
Well, the idea almost took my breath away, teacher, but I wasn't going to let Mrs. Lynde see _that_.
And I _can_ trust him, teacher.
But still, I hope, if he ever does give me a new mother, he'll ask my opinion about her before it's too late.
There's Mary Joe coming to call us to tea.
I'll go and consult with her about the shortbread." As a result of the "consultation," Mary Joe cut the shortbread and added a dish of preserves to the bill of fare.
After tea Paul took Anne up to his room to show her his mother's picture, which had been the mysterious birthday present kept by Mrs. Irving in the bookcase.
Paul's little low-ceilinged room was a soft whirl of ruddy light from the sun that was setting over the sea and swinging shadows from the fir trees that grew close to the square, deep-set window.
From out this soft glow and glamor shone a sweet, girlish face, with tender mother eyes, that was hanging on the wall at the foot of the bed. "That's my little mother," said Paul with loving pride.
I got Grandma to hang it there where I'd see it as soon as I opened my eyes in the morning.
Isn't it wonderful how much fathers _do_ know?" "Your mother was very lovely, Paul, and you look a little like her.
But her eyes and hair are darker than yours." "My eyes are the same color as father's," said Paul, flying about the room to heap all available cushions on the window seat, "but father's hair is gray.
He has lots of it, but it is gray.
You see, father is nearly fifty.
That's ripe old age, isn't it?
But it's only _outside_ he's old. _Inside_ he's just as young as anybody.
Now, teacher, please sit here; and I'll sit at your feet.
May I lay my head against your knee?
That's the way my little mother and I used to sit.
Oh, this is real splendid, I think." "Now, I want to hear those thoughts which Mary Joe pronounces so queer," said Anne, patting the mop of curls at her side.
Paul never needed any coaxing to tell his thoughts . . . at least, to congenial souls. "I thought them out in the fir grove one night," he said dreamily.
Of course I didn't _believe_ them but I _thought_ them. _You_ know, teacher.
And then I wanted to tell them to somebody and there was nobody but Mary Joe.
Mary Joe was in the pantry setting bread and I sat down on the bench beside her and I said, 'Mary Joe, do you know what I think?
I think the evening star is a lighthouse on the land where the fairies dwell.
And Mary Joe said, 'Well, yous are de queer one.
Dare ain't no such ting as fairies.
I was very much provoked.
Of course, I knew there are no fairies; but that needn't prevent my thinking there is. _You_ know, teacher.
But I tried again quite patiently.
I said, 'Well then, Mary Joe, do you know what I think?
I think an angel walks over the world after the sun sets . . . a great, tall, white angel, with silvery folded wings . . . and sings the flowers and birds to sleep.
Children can hear him if they know how to listen.
Then Mary Joe held up her hands all over flour and said, 'Well, yous are de queer leetle boy.
Yous make me feel scare.
And she really did looked scared. I went out then and whispered the rest of my thoughts to the garden. There was a little birch tree in the garden and it died.
Grandma says the salt spray killed it; but I think the dryad belonging to it was a foolish dryad who wandered away to see the world and got lost.
Do you know what I think about the new moon, teacher?
I think it is a little golden boat full of dreams." "And when it tips on a cloud some of them spill out and fall into your sleep." "Exactly, teacher.
And I think the violets are little snips of the sky that fell down when the angels cut out holes for the stars to shine through.
And the buttercups are made out of old sunshine; and I think the sweet peas will be butterflies when they go to heaven.
But keep on thinking them, Paul . . . some day you are going to be a poet, I believe." When Anne reached home she found a very different type of boyhood waiting to be put to bed.
I'm going to give up trying to be good, 'cause no matter how good I am you'd like Paul Irving better.
So I might as well be bad and have the fun of it." "I don't like Paul Irving _better_," said Anne seriously.
I like you just as well, only in a different way." "But I want you to like me the same way," pouted Davy. "You can't like different people the same way.
But it's too much bother getting out now to say them. I'll say them twice over in the morning, Anne.
Won't that do as well?" No, Anne was positive it would not do as well.
So Davy scrambled out and knelt down at her knee.
Today Marilla give me two pieces of bread and jam, one for me and one for Dora.
One was a good deal bigger than the other and Marilla didn't say which was mine.
But I give the biggest piece to Dora.
That was good of me, wasn't it?" "Very good, and very manly, Davy." "Of course," admitted Davy, "Dora wasn't very hungry and she only et half her slice and then she give the rest to me.
She had a sudden realization that Gilbert was a schoolboy no longer.
And how manly he looked-the tall, frank-faced fellow, with the clear, straightforward eyes and the broad shoulders.
Anne thought Gilbert was a very handsome lad, even though he didn't look at all like her ideal man.
She and Diana had long ago decided what kind of a man they admired and their tastes seemed exactly similar.
He must be very tall and distinguished looking, with melancholy, inscrutable eyes, and a melting, sympathetic voice.
There was nothing either melancholy or inscrutable in Gilbert's physiognomy, but of course that didn't matter in friendship! Gilbert stretched himself out on the ferns beside the Bubble and looked approvingly at Anne.
If Gilbert had been asked to describe his ideal woman the description would have answered point for point to Anne, even to those seven tiny freckles whose obnoxious presence still continued to vex her soul.
He had made up his mind, also, that his future must be worthy of its goddess.
Even in quiet Avonlea there were temptations to be met and faced.
White Sands youth were a rather "fast" set, and Gilbert was popular wherever he went.
But he meant to keep himself worthy of Anne's friendship and perhaps some distant day her love; and he watched over word and thought and deed as jealously as if her clear eyes were to pass in judgment on it.
In Gilbert's eyes Anne's greatest charm was the fact that she never stooped to the petty practices of so many of the Avonlea girls-the small jealousies, the little deceits and rivalries, the palpable bids for favor.
He was talking to me about it today.
Major Spencer is the most progressive and public-spirited man in Avonlea.
And Mr. William Bell is going to set out a spruce hedge along his road front and up his lane.
Our Society is getting on splendidly, Anne.
It is past the experimental stage and is an accepted fact.
The older folks are beginning to take an interest in it and the White Sands people are talking of starting one too.
Even Elisha Wright has come around since that day the Americans from the hotel had the picnic at the shore.
They praised our roadsides so highly and said they were so much prettier than in any other part of the Island.
Those trees we planted on the church grounds are flourishing, and the trustees have promised me that they will fence in the school grounds next year.
Levi won't have it taken down just to vex us.
Julia Bell thinks you can do anything, if you only have a committee to attempt it. Next spring, Anne, we must start an agitation for nice lawns and grounds.
We'll sow good seed betimes this winter.
I've a treatise here on lawns and lawnmaking and I'm going to prepare a paper on the subject soon.
Well, I suppose our vacation is almost over.
School opens Monday. Has Ruby Gillis got the Carmody school?" "Yes; Priscilla wrote that she had taken her own home school, so the Carmody trustees gave it to Ruby.
I'm sorry Priscilla is not coming back, but since she can't I'm glad Ruby has got the school.
Mr. Lynde is feeling better this week and Rachel wants to go before he has another sick spell." "I intend to get up extra early tomorrow morning, for I've ever so much to do," said Anne virtuously.
For one thing, I'm going to shift the feathers from my old bedtick to the new one.
I ought to have done it long ago but I've just kept putting it off . . . it's such a detestable task.
It's a very bad habit to put off disagreeable things, and I never mean to again, or else I can't comfortably tell my pupils not to do it. That would be inconsistent.
Green Gables lay in a pool of sunshine, flecked with the dancing shadows of poplar and willow.
Beyond the land was Mr. Harrison's wheatfield, a great, windrippled expanse of pale gold.
The world was so beautiful that Anne spent ten blissful minutes hanging idly over the garden gate drinking the loveliness in. After breakfast Marilla made ready for her journey.
Dora was to go with her, having been long promised this treat. "Now, Davy, you try to be a good boy and don't bother Anne," she straitly charged him.
If you are good I'll bring you a striped candy cane from town." For alas, Marilla had stooped to the evil habit of bribing people to be good! "I won't be bad on purpose, but s'posen I'm bad zacksidentally?
Davy wanted to know. "You'll have to guard against accidents," admonished Marilla.
Anne, if Mr. Shearer comes today get a nice roast and some steak.
If he doesn't you'll have to kill a fowl for dinner tomorrow." Anne nodded. "I'm not going to bother cooking any dinner for just Davy and myself today," she said.
That cold ham bone will do for noon lunch and I'll have some steak fried for you when you come home at night." "I'm going to help Mr. Harrison haul dulse this morning," announced Davy.
He asked me to, and I guess he'll ask me to dinner too.
Mr. Harrison is an awful kind man.
He's a real sociable man.
I hope I'll be like him when I grow up.
I mean _behave_ like him . . .
I don't want to _look_ like him.
But I guess there's no danger, for Mrs. Lynde says I'm a very handsome child.
Do you s'pose it'll last, Anne?
I want to know?" "I daresay it will," said Anne gravely.
You _are_ a handsome boy, Davy," . . .
You don't have to be very good to be a Sunday School superintendent.
Mr. Bell's that, and he's a real bad man." "Indeed he's not," said Marila indignantly. "He is . . . he says he is himself," asseverated Davy.
He said it when he prayed in Sunday School last Sunday.
He said he was a vile worm and a miserable sinner and guilty of the blackest 'niquity.
What did he do that was so bad, Marilla?
Or steal the collection cents?
The floor was swept, the beds made, the hens fed, the muslin dress washed and hung out on the line.
Then Anne prepared for the transfer of feathers.
She mounted to the garret and donned the first old dress that came to hand . . . a navy blue cashmere she had worn at fourteen.
It was decidedly on the short side and as "skimpy" as the notable wincey Anne had worn upon the occasion of her debut at Green Gables; but at least it would not be materially injured by down and feathers.
There were those seven freckles on her nose, more rampant than ever, or so it seemed in the glare of light from the unshaded window. "Oh, I forgot to rub that lotion on last night," she thought.
I'd better run down to the pantry and do it now." Anne had already suffered many things trying to remove those freckles. On one occasion the entire skin had peeled off her nose but the freckles remained.
Anne caught the bottle containing the lotion from the shelf and copiously anointed her nose therewith by means of a little sponge sacred to the purpose.
This important duty done, she returned to her work.
Any one who has ever shifted feathers from one tick to another will not need to be told that when Anne finished she was a sight to behold.
Her dress was white with down and fluff, and her front hair, escaping from under the handkerchief, was adorned with a veritable halo of feathers.
At this auspicious moment a knock sounded at the kitchen door. "That must be Mr. Shearer," thought Anne.
I'm in a dreadful mess but I'll have to run down as I am, for he's always in a hurry." Down flew Anne to the kitchen door.
If ever a charitable floor did open to swallow up a miserable, befeathered damsel the Green Gables porch floor should promptly have engulfed Anne at that moment.
Morgan. In the dismay of the moment one thought stood out from the confusion of Anne's mind and she grasped at it as at the proverbial straw.
All Mrs. Morgan's heroines were noted for "rising to the occasion.
No matter what her outraged feelings were she did not show them.
She greeted Priscilla and was introduced to her companions as calmly and composedly as if she had been arrayed in purple and fine linen.
But last night her friend telephoned to her not to come because they were quarantined for scarlet fever.
So I suggested we come here instead, for I knew you were longing to see her.
We called at the White Sands Hotel and brought Mrs. Pendexter with us.
She is a friend of aunt's and lives in New York and her husband is a millionaire.
If she doesn't _know_ what it is to change a feather bed she might _imagine_ it." When Priscilla had gone to the parlor, and before Anne could escape upstairs, Diana walked into the kitchen.
Anne caught her astonished friend by the arm. "Diana Barry, who do you suppose is in that parlor at this very moment? Mrs. Charlotte E.
It's . . . it's . . . your nose, Anne." "My nose?
Oh, Diana, surely nothing has gone wrong with it!" Anne rushed to the little looking glass over the sink.
One glance revealed the fatal truth.
What shall I do?" "Wash it off," said Diana practically. "Perhaps it won't wash off.
First I dye my hair; then I dye my nose. Marilla cut my hair off when I dyed it but that remedy would hardly be practicable in this case.
Well, this is another punishment for vanity and I suppose I deserve it . . . though there's not much comfort in _that_.
Presently Anne came down again, clothed and in her right mind.
The muslin dress she had fondly hoped to wear was bobbing merrily about on the line outside, so she was forced to content herself with her black lawn.
But after the first few moments Anne thought no more of what was or was not on her bill of fare.
Mrs. Morgan's appearance might be somewhat disappointing, as even her loyal worshippers had been forced to admit to each other; but she proved to be a delightful conversationalist.
She had traveled extensively and was an excellent storyteller.
She had seen much of men and women, and crystalized her experiences into witty little sentences and epigrams which made her hearers feel as if they were listening to one of the people in clever books.
But under all her sparkle there was a strongly felt undercurrent of true, womanly sympathy and kindheartedness which won affection as easily as her brilliancy won admiration.
Nor did she monopolize the conversation.
I believe we had a nicer time than if we'd known they were coming and been cumbered with much serving.
But she took the bottle of freckle lotion and emptied it out of the window. "I shall never try any beautifying messes again," she said, darkly resolute.
She had several new pupils, six- and seven-year-olds just venturing, round-eyed, into a world of wonder. Among them were Davy and Dora.
Davy sat with Milty Boulter, who had been going to school for a year and was therefore quite a man of the world.
It's splendid to have so many boys to play with.
I sit with Milty Boulter and he's fine.
He's longer than me but I'm wider.
It seems it's dreadful to have your feelings hurt.
It's better to knock a boy down than hurt his feelings if you _must_ do something.
Milty said he wasn't scared of me but he'd just as soon call it somebody else to 'blige me, so he rubbed out Anne's name and printed Barbara Shaw's under it.
I don't want to go upstairs alone in the dark." "What notion have you got into your head now?" demanded Marilla.
I'm sure you've gone to bed alone all summer and never been frightened before." Dora still continued to cry, so Anne picked her up, cuddled her sympathetically, and whispered, "Tell Anne all about it, sweetheart.
What are you frightened of?" "Of . . . of Mirabel Cotton's uncle," sobbed Dora.
Mirabel Cotton told me all about her family today in school.
Nearly everybody in her family has died . . . all her grandfathers and grandmothers and ever so many uncles and aunts.
They have a habit of dying, Mirabel says.
I don't mind the rest so much but I can't help thinking about that uncle." Anne went upstairs with Dora and sat by her until she fell asleep.
Mirabel thought this very harsh.
The Cottons had not much to boast of.
But we can't get one of our horses to go, for they'll all be in use tomorrow, and your pony is lame . . . so I suppose we can't go." "Why can't we walk?" suggested Anne.
If we go straight back through the woods we'll strike the West Grafton road not far from the Kimball place.
I was through that way last winter and I know the road.
It's no more than four miles and we won't have to walk home, for Oliver Kimball will be sure to drive us.
It doesn't seem right to hurry through it, does it?
It seems irreverent, like running in a church." "We _must_ hurry though," said Diana, glancing at her watch.
We've left ourselves little enough time as it is." "Well, I'll walk fast but don't ask me to talk," said Anne, quickening her pace.
I just want to drink the day's loveliness in . . .
She should have taken the right, but ever afterward she counted it the most fortunate mistake of her life.
They came out finally to a lonely, grassy road, with nothing in sight along it but ranks of spruce saplings. "Why, where are we?" exclaimed Diana in bewilderment.
This isn't the West Grafton road." "No, it's the base line road in Middle Grafton," said Anne, rather shamefacedly.
I must have taken the wrong turning at the fork.
I don't know where we are exactly, but we must be all of three miles from Kimballs' still." "Then we can't get there by five, for it's half past four now," said Diana, with a despairing look at her watch.
We'll arrive after they have had their tea, and they'll have all the bother of getting ours over again." "We'd better turn back and go home," suggested Anne humbly.
Here is a gate and a lane leading right into the wood.
There must be a house at the other side.
Let us go down and inquire." "What a romantic old lane this it," said Diana, as they walked along its twists and turns.
It ran under patriarchal old firs whose branches met above, creating a perpetual gloom in which nothing except moss could grow.
On either hand were brown wood floors, crossed here and there by fallen lances of sunlight.
All was very still and remote, as if the world and the cares of the world were far away. "I feel as if we were walking through an enchanted forest," said Anne in a hushed tone.
Do you suppose we'll ever find our way back to the real world again, Diana?
Anne stopped short in rapture and Diana exclaimed, "Oh, I know where we are now.
That is the little stone house where Miss Lavendar Lewis lives . . .
Echo Lodge, she calls it, I think.
I've often heard of it but I've never seen it before.
Isn't it a romantic spot?" "It's the sweetest, prettiest place I ever saw or imagined," said Anne delightedly.
They say she is very peculiar." "She'll be interesting then," said Anne decidedly.
Peculiar people are always that at least, whatever else they are or are not.
Didn't I tell you we would come to an enchanted palace?
I knew the elves hadn't woven magic over that lane for nothing." "But Miss Lavendar Lewis is hardly a spellbound princess," laughed Diana.
She's an old maid . . . she's forty-five and quite gray, I've heard." "Oh, that's only part of the spell," asserted Anne confidently.
At heart she's young and beautiful still . . . and if we only knew how to unloose the spell she would step forth radiant and fair again.
But we don't know how . . . it's always and only the prince who knows that . . . and Miss Lavendar's prince hasn't come yet.
Perhaps some fatal mischance has befallen him . . . though _that's_ against the law of all fairy tales." "I'm afraid he came long ago and went away again," said Diana.
They say she used to be engaged to Stephen Irving . . .
Paul's father . . . when they were young.
But they quarreled and parted." "Hush," warned Anne.
The door is open." The girls paused in the porch under the tendrils of ivy and knocked at the open door.
The interior of this wonderful little house was quite as interesting as its exterior. The room had a low ceiling and two square, small-paned windows, curtained with muslin frills.
All the furnishings were old-fashioned, but so well and daintily kept that the effect was delicious.
There are six places set.
But what a funny little girl she has.
She looked like a messenger from pixy land.
I suppose she could have told us the road, but I was curious to see Miss Lavendar.
S . . . s . . . sh, she's coming." And with that Miss Lavendar Lewis was standing in the doorway.
The girls were so surprised that they forgot good manners and simply stared.
They had unconsciously been expecting to see the usual type of elderly spinster as known to their experience . . . a rather angular personage, with prim gray hair and spectacles.
Nothing more unlike Miss Lavendar could possibly be imagined. She was a little lady with snow-white hair beautifully wavy and thick, and carefully arranged in becoming puffs and coils.
Beneath it was an almost girlish face, pink cheeked and sweet lipped, with big soft brown eyes and dimples . . . actually dimples.
We are invited to tea at Mr. Kimball's, but we took the wrong path coming through the woods and came out to the base line instead of the West Grafton road.
Do we take the right or left turning at your gate?" "The left," said Miss Lavendar, with a hesitating glance at her tea table.
Then she exclaimed, as if in a sudden little burst of resolution, "But oh, won't you stay and have tea with me?
Mr. Kimball's will have tea over before you get there.
But you are expecting other guests, aren't you?" Miss Lavendar looked at her tea table again, and blushed. "I know you'll think me dreadfully foolish," she said.
I _am_ foolish . . . and I'm ashamed of it when I'm found out, but never unless I _am_ found out.
I'm not expecting anybody . . .
I was just pretending I was. You see, I was so lonely.
I love company . . . that is, the right kind of company . . . but so few people ever come here because it is so far out of the way.
Charlotta the Fourth was lonely too.
So I just pretended I was going to have a tea party.
The idea of a woman of forty-five playing at having a tea party, just as if she were a little girl!
But Anne of the shining eyes exclaimed joyfuly, "Oh, do _you_ imagine things too?" That "too" revealed a kindred spirit to Miss Lavendar. "Yes, I do," she confessed, boldly.
I don't believe I could live at times if I didn't pretend things.
I'm not often caught at it though, and Charlotta the Fourth never tells.
But I'm glad to be caught today, for you have really come and I have tea all ready for you.
Will you go up to the spare room and take off your hats?
It's the white door at the head of the stairs.
I must run out to the kitchen and see that Charlotta the Fourth isn't letting the tea boil.
And isn't Miss Lavendar sweet, if she _is_ a little odd?
I'm so glad you are young girls.
It's so easy to pretend I'm a girl myself when I'm with them.
I do hate" . . . with a little grimace . . . "to believe I'm old.
Now, who are you . . . just for convenience' sake?
May I pretend that I've known you for a hundred years and call you Anne and Diana right away?" "You, may" the girls said both together. "Then just let's sit comfily down and eat everything," said Miss Lavendar happily.
Charlotta, you sit at the foot and help with the chicken.
It is so fortunate that I made the sponge cake and doughnuts. Of course, it was foolish to do it for imaginary guests . . .
I know Charlotta the Fourth thought so, didn't you, Charlotta?
But you see how well it has turned out.
Of course they wouldn't have been wasted, for Charlotta the Fourth and I could have eaten them through time.
There was moment's stillness . . . and then from the woods over the river came a multitude of fairy echoes, sweet, elusive, silvery, as if all the "horns of elfland" were blowing against the sunset.
They are very good company . . . with a little pretending.
On calm evenings Charlotta the Fourth and I often sit out here and amuse ourselves with them.
They all look so much alike there's no telling them apart.
Her name isn't really Charlotta at all. It is . . . let me see . . . what is it?
I _think_ it's Leonora . . . yes, it _is_ Leonora.
You see, it is this way.
When mother died ten years ago I couldn't stay here alone . . . and I couldn't afford to pay the wages of a grown-up girl.
So I got little Charlotta Bowman to come and stay with me for board and clothes.
Her name really was Charlotta . . . she was Charlotta the First.
She stayed with me till she was sixteen and then she went away to Boston, because she could do better there.
Her sister came to stay with me then.
Her name was Julietta . . .
Mrs. Bowman had a weakness for fancy names I think . . . but she looked so like Charlotta that I kept calling her that all the time . . .and she didn't mind.
So I just gave up trying to remember her right name.
She was Charlotta the Second, and when she went away Evelina came and she was Charlotta the Third.
Now I have Charlotta the Fourth; but when she is sixteen . . . she's fourteen now . . . she will want to go to Boston too, and what I shall do then I really do not know.
Charlotta the Fourth is the last of the Bowman girls, and the best.
The other Charlottas always let me see that they thought it silly of me to pretend things but Charlotta the Fourth never does, no matter what she may really think.
I don't care what people think about me if they don't let me see it." "Well," said Diana looking regretfully at the setting sun. "I suppose we must go if we want to get to Mr. Kimball's before dark.
We've had a lovely time, Miss Lewis." "Won't you come again to see me?" pleaded Miss Lavendar. Tall Anne put her arm about the little lady. "Indeed we shall," she promised.
Now that we have discovered you we'll wear out our welcome coming to see you.
Yes, we must go . . . 'we must tear ourselves away,' as Paul Irving says every time he comes to Green Gables." "Paul Irving?
There was a subtle change in Miss Lavendar's voice.
I didn't think there was anybody of that name in Avonlea." Anne felt vexed at her own heedlessness.
She had forgotten about Miss Lavendar's old romance when Paul's name slipped out. "He is a little pupil of mine," she explained slowly.
He came from Boston last year to live with his grandmother, Mrs. Irving of the shore road." "Is he Stephen Irving's son?
She planted these borders long ago.
Father named me Lavendar because he was so fond of it.
The very first time he saw mother was when he visited her home in East Grafton with her brother.
He fell in love with her at first sight; and they put him in the spare room bed to sleep and the sheets were scented with lavendar and he lay awake all night and thought of her.
He always loved the scent of lavendar after that . . . and that was why he gave me the name.
Don't forget to come back soon, girls dear.
We'll be looking for you, Charlotta the Fourth and I." She opened the gate under the firs for them to pass through.
We must come often to see her." "I think her parents gave her the only right and fitting name that could possibly be given her," said Anne.
If they had been so blind as to name her Elizabeth or Nellie or Muriel she must have been called Lavendar just the same, I think.
It's so suggestive of sweetness and old-fashioned graces and 'silk attire.
Now, my name just smacks of bread and butter, patchwork and chores." "Oh, I don't think so," said Diana.
Anne seems to me real stately and like a queen.
But I'd like Kerrenhappuch if it happened to be your name.
I think people make their names nice or ugly just by what they are themselves.
I can't bear Josie or Gertie for names now but before I knew the Pye girls I thought them real pretty." "That's a lovely idea, Diana," said Anne enthusiastically.
Living so that you beautify your name, even if it wasn't beautiful to begin with . . . making it stand in people's thoughts for something so lovely and pleasant that they never think of it by itself.
Thank you, Diana." XXII Odds and Ends "So you had tea at the stone house with Lavendar Lewis?" said Marilla at the breakfast table next morning.
What is she like now?
It's over fifteen years since I saw her last . . . it was one Sunday in Grafton church.
I suppose she has changed a great deal.
Davy Keith, when you want something you can't reach, ask to have it passed and don't spread yourself over the table in that fashion.
Did you ever see Paul Irving doing that when he was here to meals?" "But Paul's arms are longer'n mine," brumbled Davy.
They've had eleven years to grow and mine've only had seven.
Sides, I _did_ ask, but you and Anne was so busy talking you didn't pay any 'tention.
Sides, Paul's never been here to any meal escept tea, and it's easier to be p'lite at tea than at breakfast.
You ain't half as hungry.
It's an awful long while between supper and breakfast.
I never knew her very well but I liked her as far as I did know her.
Anne looked at him with such horrified eyes that the little sinner turned red and said, half shamefacedly, half defiantly, "There ain't any wasted that way." "People who are different from other people are always called peculiar," said Anne.
If you don't, you don't fit in anywhere.
Far as I can learn Lavendar Lewis has just dropped out of everything.
She's lived in that out of the way place until everybody has forgotten her.
That stone house is one of the oldest on the Island. Old Mr. Lewis built it eighty years ago when he came out from England. Davy, stop joggling Dora's elbow.
You needn't try to look innocent.
What does make you behave so this morning?" "Maybe I got out of the wrong side of the bed," suggested Davy.
Milty Boulter says if you do that things are bound to go wrong with you all day.
But which _is_ the right side?
And what are you to do when your bed's against the wall?
I want to know." "I've always wondered what went wrong between Stephen Irving and Lavendar Lewis," continued Marilla, ignoring Davy.
They were certainly engaged twenty-five years ago and then all at once it was broken off.
I don't know what the trouble was but it must have been something terrible, for he went away to the States and never come home since." "Perhaps it was nothing very dreadful after all.
I think the little things in life often make more trouble than the big things," said Anne, with one of those flashes of insight which experience could not have bettered.
Marilla, please don't say anything about my being at Miss Lavendar's to Mrs. Lynde.
She's tied home now on account of Thomas; and she's feeling pretty downhearted, for I think she's beginning to lose hope of his ever getting better.
But what is the use of asking a jellyfish to sit up straight?" continued Marilla.
Thomas Lynde never had any will power to exert.
His mother ruled him till he married and then Rachel carried it on.
It's a wonder he dared to get sick without asking her permission.
But there, I shouldn't talk so.
Rachel has been a good wife to him.
He'd never have amounted to anything without her, that's certain.
He was born to be ruled; and it's well he fell into the hands of a clever, capable manager like Rachel.
He didn't mind her way.
It saved him the bother of ever making up his own mind about anything.
Davy, do stop squirming like an eel." "I've nothing else to do," protested Davy.
I can't eat any more, and it's no fun watching you and Anne eat." "Well, you and Dora go out and give the hens their wheat," said Marilla.
You might let me have some.
I'll never forget how I used to long for puffed sleeves when all the other girls had them.
And Davy isn't being spoiled.
He is improving every day.
Think what a difference there is in him since he came here a year ago." "He certainly doesn't get into as much mischief since he began to go to school," acknowledged Marilla.
I suppose he works off the tendency with the other boys.
But it's a wonder to me we haven't heard from Richard Keith before this.
Never a word since last May." "I'll be afraid to hear from him," sighed Anne, beginning to clear away the dishes.
If a letter should come I'd dread opening it, for fear it would tell us to send the twins to him." A month later a letter did come.
But it was not from Richard Keith.
A friend of his wrote to say that Richard Keith had died of consumption a fortnight previously.
In the meantime the interest was to be used for their maintenance. "It seems dreadful to be glad of anything in connection with a death," said Anne soberly.
I'm sorry for poor Mr. Keith; but I _am_ glad that we can keep the twins." "It's a very good thing about the money," said Marilla practically.
I wanted to keep them but I really didn't see how I could afford to do it, especially when they grew older.
The rent of the farm doesn't do any more than keep the house and I was bound that not a cent of your money should be spent on them.
You do far too much for them as it is. Dora didn't need that new hat you bought her any more than a cat needs two tails.
But now the way is made clear and they are provided for." Davy and Dora were delighted when they heard that they were to live at Green Gables, "for good.
The death of an uncle whom they had never seen could not weigh a moment in the balance against that.
But Dora had one misgiving. "Was Uncle Richard buried?" she whispered to Anne. "Yes, dear, of course." "He . . . he . . . isn't like Mirabel Cotton's uncle, is he?" in a still more agitated whisper.
It's a whole fortnight since I was there." Anne had paid many a visit to Echo Lodge since that October day. Sometimes she and Diana drove around by the road; sometimes they walked through the woods.
When Diana could not go Anne went alone.
Charlotta the Fourth always greeted them with her very widest smile . . . and Charlotta's smiles _were_ fearfully wide . . . loving them for the sake of her adored mistress as well as for their own.
In a "make believe" assembly of choice spirits everybody says just the thing you want her to say and so gives you the chance to say just what _you_ want to say.
Attended by this invisible company, Anne traversed the woods and arrived at the fir lane just as broad, feathery flakes began to flutter down softly. At the first bend she came upon Miss Lavendar, standing under a big, broad-branching fir.
And I'm doubly glad, for Charlotta the Fourth is away.
Her mother is sick and she had to go home for the night.
I should have been very lonely if you hadn't come . . . even the dreams and the echoes wouldn't have been enough company.
Oh, Anne, how pretty you are," she added suddenly, looking up at the tall, slim girl with the soft rose-flush of walking on her face.
How pretty and how young!
It's so delightful to be seventeen, isn't it?
I do envy you," concluded Miss Lavendar candidly. "But you are only seventeen at heart," smiled Anne. "No, I'm old . . . or rather middle-aged, which is far worse," sighed Miss Lavendar.
Sometimes I can pretend I'm not, but at other times I realize it.
And I can't reconcile myself to it as most women seem to. I'm just as rebellious as I was when I discovered my first gray hair. Now, Anne, don't look as if you were trying to understand.
I'm going to pretend right away that I am seventeen too, and I can do it, now that you're here.
You always bring youth in your hand like a gift.
We're going to have a jolly evening.
Tea first . . . what do you want for tea?
We'll have whatever you like.
Do think of something nice and indigestible." There were sounds of riot and mirth in the little stone house that night.
If you weren't I should be blue . . . very blue . . . almost navy blue.
Dreams and make-believes are all very well in the daytime and the sunshine, but when dark and storm come they fail to satisfy. One wants real things then.
But you don't know this . . . seventeen never knows it.
At seventeen dreams DO satisfy because you think the realities are waiting for you further on.
When I was seventeen, Anne, I didn't think forty-five would find me a white-haired little old maid with nothing but dreams to fill my life." "But you aren't an old maid," said Anne, smiling into Miss Lavendar's wistful woodbrown eyes.
People say I'm odd; but it's just because I follow my own way of being an old maid and refuse to copy the traditional pattern.
Anne, did anyone ever tell you anything about Stephen Irving and me?" "Yes," said Anne candidly, "I've heard that you and he were engaged once." "So we were . . . twenty-five years ago . . . a lifetime ago.
And we were to have been married the next spring.
I had my wedding dress made, although nobody but mother and Stephen ever knew _that_.
We'd been engaged in a way almost all our lives, you might say.
I remember that I said 'Thank you'; and when he was gone I told mother very gravely that there was a great weight off my mind, because I wasn't frightened any more about having to be an old maid.
How poor mother laughed!" "And what went wrong?" asked Anne breathlessly. "We had just a stupid, silly, commonplace quarrel.
So commonplace that, if you'll believe me, I don't even remember just how it began.
I hardly know who was the more to blame for it.
Stephen did really begin it, but I suppose I provoked him by some foolishness of mine.
He had a rival or two, you see.
I was vain and coquettish and liked to tease him a little.
He was a very high-strung, sensitive fellow.
Well, we parted in a temper on both sides.
But I thought it would all come right; and it would have if Stephen hadn't come back too soon.
Anne, my dear, I'm sorry to say" . . .
Miss Lavendar dropped her voice as if she were about to confess a predilection for murdering people, "that I am a dreadfully sulky person.
Oh, you needn't smile, . . . it's only too true.
I _do_ sulk; and Stephen came back before I had finished sulking. I wouldn't listen to him and I wouldn't forgive him; and so he went away for good.
He was too proud to come again.
And then I sulked because he didn't come.
I might have sent for him perhaps, but I couldn't humble myself to do that.
I was just as proud as he was . . . pride and sulkiness make a very bad combination, Anne.
But I could never care for anybody else and I didn't want to.
I knew I would rather be an old maid for a thousand years than marry anybody who wasn't Stephen Irving.
Well, it all seems like a dream now, of course.
How sympathetic you look, Anne . . . as sympathetic as only seventeen can look.
I'm really a very happy, contented little person in spite of my broken heart.
My heart did break, if ever a heart did, when I realized that Stephen Irving was not coming back.
But, Anne, a broken heart in real life isn't half as dreadful as it is in books.
It's a good deal like a bad tooth . . . though you won't think _that_ a very romantic simile.
It takes spells of aching and gives you a sleepless night now and then, but between times it lets you enjoy life and dreams and echoes and peanut candy as if there were nothing the matter with it.
And now you're looking disappointed.
You don't think I'm half as interesting a person as you did five minutes ago when you believed I was always the prey of a tragic memory bravely hidden beneath external smiles.
That's the worst . . . or the best . . . of real life, Anne.
It _won't_ let you be miserable.
It keeps on trying to make you comfortable . . . and succeeding...even when you're determined to be unhappy and romantic.
I've never been able to mention him to you since, but I've wanted to know all about him.
I want to get used to the thought.
There might be more pain than pleasure in it . . . if he looked too much like Stephen . . . or if he didn't look enough like him.
In a month's time you may bring him." Accordingly, a month later Anne and Paul walked through the woods to the stone house, and met Miss Lavendar in the lane.
As a rule, I don't like to be kissed.
Boys don't. _You_ know, Miss Lewis.
But I think I rather like to have you kiss me. And of course I'll come to see you again.
I think I'd like to have you for a particular friend of mine, if you don't object." "I . . .
I don't think I shall object," said Miss Lavendar.
She turned and went in very quickly; but a moment later she was waving a gay and smiling good-bye to them from the window. "I like Miss Lavendar," announced Paul, as they walked through the beech woods.
I like the way she looked at me, and I like her stone house, and I like Charlotta the Fourth.
I wish Grandma Irving had a Charlotta the Fourth instead of a Mary Joe.
I feel sure Charlotta the Fourth wouldn't think I was wrong in my upper story when I told her what I think about things.
She'd get things for him he did like.
But of course" . . .
Paul was nothing if not fair-minded . . . "that mightn't be very good for him.
It's very nice for a change though, teacher. _You_ know." XXIV A Prophet in His Own Country One May day Avonlea folks were mildly excited over some "Avonlea Notes," signed "Observer," which appeared in the Charlottetown _Daily Enterprise_.
Gossip ascribed the authorship thereof to Charlie Sloane, partly because the said Charlie had indulged in similar literary flights in times past, and partly because one of the notes seemed to embody a sneer at Gilbert Blythe.
Avonlea juvenile society persisted in regarding Gilbert Blythe and Charlie Sloane as rivals in the good graces of a certain damsel with gray eyes and an imagination. Gossip, as usual, was wrong.
The area of the storm will extend over the greater part of the Province.
He suspected that "Observer" was making fun of him.
He angrily denied having assigned any particular date for his storm but nobody believed him. Life in Avonlea continued on the smooth and even tenor of its way.
The "planting" was put in; the Improvers celebrated an Arbor Day.
Each Improver set out, or caused to be set out, five ornamental trees.
As the society now numbered forty members, this meant a total of two hundred young trees.
Early oats greened over the red fields; apple orchards flung great blossoming arms about the farmhouses and the Snow Queen adorned itself as a bride for her husband.
Anne liked to sleep with her window open and let the cherry fragrance blow over her face all night.
She thought it very poetical.
Marilla thought she was risking her life. "Thanksgiving should be celebrated in the spring," said Anne one evening to Marilla, as they sat on the front door steps and listened to the silver-sweet chorus of the frogs.
I feel exactly as Eve must have felt in the garden of Eden before the trouble began. _Is_ that grass in the hollow green or golden?
They came around the corner of the house just then. "Ain't it an awful nice-smelling evening?" asked Davy, sniffing delightedly as he swung a hoe in his grimy hands.
He had been working in his garden.
That spring Marilla, by way of turning Davy's passion for reveling in mud and clay into useful channels, had given him and Dora a small plot of ground for a garden.
Both had eagerly gone to work in a characteristic fashion.
Dora planted, weeded, and watered carefully, systematically, and dispassionately.
As a result, her plot was already green with prim, orderly little rows of vegetables and annuals.
I don't know why the things don't grow better.
Milty Boulter says I must have planted them in the dark of the moon and that's the whole trouble.
He says you must never sow seeds or kill pork or cut your hair or do any 'portant thing in the wrong time of the moon.
I wanted to see if there was grubs at the roots.
Milty Boulter said if it wasn't the moon's fault it must be grubs.
But I only found one grub.
He was a great big juicy curly grub.
I put him on a stone and got another stone and smashed him flat.
He made a jolly sqush I tell you.
I was sorry there wasn't more of them.
Dora's garden was planted same time's mine and her things are growing all right.
It _can't_ be the moon," Davy concluded in a reflective tone. "Marilla, look at that apple tree," said Anne.
Why, the thing is human.
It is reaching out long arms to pick its own pink skirts daintily up and provoke us to admiration." "Those Yellow Duchess trees always bear well," said Marilla complacently.
That tree'll be loaded this year.
A hot breeze blew all the forenoon; but after noon hour it died away into a heavy stillness.
Annetta Bell caught her hand nervously. "Oh, teacher, look at that awful cloud!" Anne looked and gave an exclamation of dismay.
In the northwest a mass of cloud, such as she had never in all her life beheld before, was rapidly rolling up.
It was dead black, save where its curled and fringed edges showed a ghastly, livid white.
There was something about it indescribably menacing as it gloomed up in the clear blue sky; now and again a bolt of lightning shot across it, followed by a savage growl.
It hung so low that it almost seemed to be touching the tops of the wooded hills. Mr. Harmon Andrews came clattering up the hill in his truck wagon, urging his team of grays to their utmost speed.
He pulled them to a halt opposite the school. "Guess Uncle Abe's hit it for once in his life, Anne," he shouted.
His storm's coming a leetle ahead of time.
Did ye ever see the like of that cloud?
They reached Green Gables not a moment too soon and were joined at the door by Marilla, who had been hustling her ducks and chickens under shelter.
As they dashed into the kitchen the light seemed to vanish, as if blown out by some mighty breath; the awful cloud rolled over the sun and a darkness as of late twilight fell across the world.
In three minutes every pane in the west and north windows was broken and the hail poured in through the apertures covering the floor with stones, the smallest of which was as big as a hen's egg.
For three quarters of an hour the storm raged unabated and no one who underwent it ever forgot it.
Marilla, for once in her life shaken out of her composure by sheer terror, knelt by her rocking chair in a corner of the kitchen, gasping and sobbing between the deafening thunder peals.
Anne, white as paper, had dragged the sofa away from the window and sat on it with a twin on either side.
Davy at the first crash had howled, "Anne, Anne, is it the Judgment Day?
Anne, Anne, I never _meant_ to be naughty," and then had buried his face in Anne's lap and kept it there, his little body quivering.
Dora, somewhat pale but quite composed, sat with her hand clasped in Anne's, quiet and motionless.
It is doubtful if an earthquake would have disturbed Dora. Then, almost as suddenly as it began, the storm ceased.
Her face was haggard and she looked ten years older. "Have we all come out of that alive?" she asked solemnly. "You bet we have," piped Davy cheerfully, quite his own man again.
I wasn't a bit scared either . . . only just at the first.
It come on a fellow so sudden.
I made up my mind quick as a wink that I wouldn't fight Teddy Sloane Monday as I'd promised; but now maybe I will.
When, three or four days later, those hailstones melted, the havoc they had wrought was plainly seen, for every green growing thing in the field or garden was cut off.
Not only was every blossom stripped from the apple trees but great boughs and branches were wrenched away.
And out of the two hundred trees set out by the Improvers by far the greater number were snapped off or torn to shreds. "Can it possibly be the same world it was an hour ago?" asked Anne, dazedly.
It _must_ have taken longer than that to play such havoc." "The like of this has never been known in Prince Edward Island," said Marilla, "never.
I remember when I was a girl there was a bad storm, but it was nothing to this.
We'll hear of terrible destruction, you may be sure." "I do hope none of the children were caught out in it," murmured Anne anxiously.
Mr. Harrison sent me over to see if yous had come out all right." "We're none of us killed," said Marilla grimly, "and none of the buildings was struck.
I hope you got off equally well." "Yas'm.
Not quite so well, ma'am. We was struck.
The lightning knocked over the kitchen chimbly and come down the flue and knocked over Ginger's cage and tore a hole in the floor and went into the sullar. Yas'm." "Was Ginger hurt?" queried Anne. "Yas'm.
He was hurt pretty bad.
Later on Anne went over to comfort Mr. Harrison.
Well, well, I'm an old fool to care so much.
I'll let on I don't care.
I know you're going to say something sympathetic as soon as I stop talking . . . but don't.
If you did I'd cry like a baby.
Hasn't this been a terrible storm?
I guess folks won't laugh at Uncle Abe's predictions again.
Seems as if all the storms that he's been prophesying all his life that never happened came all at once.
Beats all how he struck the very day though, don't it?
Look at the mess we have here.
I must hustle round and get some boards to patch up that hole in the floor." Avonlea folks did nothing the next day but visit each other and compare damages.
The roads were impassable for wheels by reason of the hailstones, so they walked or rode on horseback.
The mail came late with ill tidings from all over the province.
It was Uncle Abe's hour of triumph and he enjoyed it to the full.
It would be doing Uncle Abe an injustice to say that he was glad the storm had happened; but since it had to be he was very glad he had predicted it . . . to the very day, too.
Uncle Abe forgot that he had ever denied setting the day.
Mr. Barry went over to Carmody this afternoon but not a pane could he get for love or money.
Lawson and Blair were cleaned out by the Carmody people by ten o'clock.
Was the storm bad at White Sands, Gilbert?" "I should say so.
I was caught in the school with all the children and I thought some of them would go mad with fright.
Three of them fainted, and two girls took hysterics, and Tommy Blewett did nothing but shriek at the top of his voice the whole time." "I only squealed once," said Davy proudly.
Mr. Levi Boulter's old house was struck and burned to the ground.
It seems to me that I'm dreadfully wicked to feel glad over _that_, when so much damage has been done.
Mr. Boulter says he believes the A.V.I.S. magicked up that storm on purpose." "Well, one thing is certain," said Gilbert, laughing, "'Observer' has made Uncle Abe's reputation as a weather prophet.
Uncle Abe's storm' will go down in local history.
It is a most extraordinary coincidence that it should have come on the very day we selected.
I actually have a half guilty feeling, as if I really had 'magicked' it up.
We may as well rejoice over the old house being removed, for there's not much to rejoice over where our young trees are concerned.
Not ten of them have escaped." "Ah, well, we'll just have to plant them over again next spring," said Anne philosophically.
I'm so sorry . . .
I wanted some for Matthew's grave.
And my annuals are all coming up again . . . but oh, nothing can replace the June lilies.
Poor little Hester Gray will have none either.
I went all the way back to her garden last night but there wasn't one.
I'm sure she'll miss them." "I don't think it's right for you to say such things, Anne, I really don't," said Marilla severely.
Hester Gray has been dead for thirty years and her spirit is in heaven . . .
I hope." "Yes, but I believe she loves and remembers her garden here still," said Anne.
I'm sure no matter how long I'd lived in heaven I'd like to look down and see somebody putting flowers on my grave.
How sweet you are singing, little bird.
You are just putting the feelings of my heart into song ever so much better than I could myself.
Why, who is coming?" An express wagon was jolting up the lane, with two people on the front seat and a big trunk behind.
She was a very pretty little person, evidently nearer fifty than forty, but with rosy cheeks, sparkling black eyes, and shining black hair, surmounted by a wonderful beflowered and beplumed bonnet.
In spite of having driven eight miles over a dusty road she was as neat as if she had just stepped out of the proverbial bandbox. "Is this where Mr. James A.
A friend sent a marked copy to me . . . friends are always so ready to do such things.
James A.'s name was written in over 'new citizen.'" "Oh, that note was only meant as a joke," gasped Anne.
Mr. Harrison has no intention of marrying _anybody_.
I assure you he hasn't." "I'm very glad to hear it," said the rosy lady, climbing nimbly back to her seat in the wagon, "because he happens to be married already. _I_ am his wife.
Oh, you may well look surprised.
I suppose he has been masquerading as a bachelor and breaking hearts right and left.
Well, well, James A.," nodding vigorously over the fields at the long white house, "your fun is over.
I am here . . . though I wouldn't have bothered coming if I hadn't thought you were up to some mischief.
I suppose," turning to Anne, "that parrot of his is as profane as ever?" "His parrot . . . is dead . . .
I _think_," gasped poor Anne, who couldn't have felt sure of her own name at that precise moment. "Dead!
Everything will be all right then," cried the rosy lady jubilantly.
Who was that woman, I say?" "Marilla, if I'm not crazy and not asleep she can't be such stuff as dreams are made of . . . she must be real.
Anyway, I'm sure I couldn't have imagined such a bonnet.
She says she is Mr. Harrison's wife, Marilla." Marilla stared in her turn. "His wife!
Then what has he been passing himself off as an unmarried man for?" "I don't suppose he did, really," said Anne, trying to be just.
He never said he wasn't married.
People simply took it for granted.
Oh Marilla, what will Mrs. Lynde say to this?" They found out what Mrs. Lynde had to say when she came up that evening.
Mrs. Lynde had always expected something of the sort!
Mrs. Lynde had always known there was _something_ about Mr. Harrison! "To think of his deserting his wife!" she said indignantly.
We don't know the rights of it at all." "Well, we soon will.
I'm going straight over there," said Mrs. Lynde, who had never learned that there was such a word as delicacy in the dictionary.
I'm not supposed to know anything about her arrival, and Mr. Harrison was to bring some medicine for Thomas from Carmody today, so that will be a good excuse.
I'll find out the whole story and come in and tell you on the way back." Mrs. Lynde rushed in where Anne had feared to tread.
Nothing would have induced the latter to go over to the Harrison place; but she had her natural and proper share of curiosity and she felt secretly glad that Mrs. Lynde was going to solve the mystery.
She and Marilla waited expectantly for that good lady's return, but waited in vain.
Mrs. Lynde did not revisit Green Gables that night.
Davy, arriving home at nine o'clock from the Boulter place, explained why. "I met Mrs. Lynde and some strange woman in the Hollow," he said, "and gracious, how they were talking both at once!
Mrs. Lynde said to tell you she was sorry it was too late to call tonight.
We had tea at Milty's at four and I think Mrs. Boulter is real mean.
She didn't give us any preserves or cake . . . and even the bread was skurce." "Davy, when you go visiting you must never criticize anything you are given to eat," said Anne solemnly.
It is very bad manners." "All right . . .
I'll only think it," said Davy cheerfully.
Milty has a cat that takes fits . . . she's took a fit regular every day for three weeks.
Milty says it's awful fun to watch her.
I went down today on purpose to see her have one but the mean old thing wouldn't take a fit and just kept healthy as healthy, though Milty and me hung round all the afternoon and waited.
But never mind" . . .
Davy brightened up as the insidious comfort of the plum jam stole into his soul . . . "maybe I'll see her in one sometime yet.
It doesn't seem likely she'd stop having them all at once when she's been so in the habit of it, does it?
This jam is awful nice." Davy had no sorrows that plum jam could not cure. Sunday proved so rainy that there was no stirring abroad; but by Monday everybody had heard some version of the Harrison story.
The school buzzed with it and Davy came home, full of information. "Marilla, Mr. Harrison has a new wife . . . well, not ezackly new, but they've stopped being married for quite a spell, Milty says.
I always s'posed people had to keep on being married once they'd begun, but Milty says no, there's ways of stopping if you can't agree.
Milty says one way is just to start off and leave your wife, and that's what Mr. Harrison did.
I wouldn't leave MY wife for anything like that.
I'd just put my foot down and say, 'Mrs. Davy, you've just got to do what'll please _me_ 'cause I'm a _man_.' _That'd_ settle her pretty quick I guess.
But Annetta Clay says _she_ left _him_ because he wouldn't scrape his boots at the door and she doesn't blame her.
By the table sat Mr. Harrison in his working clothes, which on Friday had been noted for sundry rents and tatters but which were now neatly patched and brushed.
He was sprucely shaved and what little hair he had was carefully trimmed. "Sit down, Anne, sit down," said Mr. Harrison in a tone but two degrees removed from that which Avonlea people used at funerals.
Emily's gone over to Carmody with Rachel Lynde . . . she's struck up a lifelong friendship already with Rachel Lynde.
Beats all how contrary women are. Well, Anne, my easy times are over . . . all over.
You needn't pretend you're not, because I can see it plainly." Mr. Harrison relaxed into a sheepish smile. "Well . . . well . . .
I'm getting used to it," he conceded.
I can't say I was sorry to see Emily.
If anybody'd have asked me if I was married I'd have said I was.
But they just took it for granted.
I wasn't anxious to talk about the matter . . .
I'm going to tell you the whole story, for I don't want you to think worse of me than I deserve . . . nor of Emily neither.
But let's go out on the veranda.
Everything is so fearful neat in here that it kind of makes me homesick.
My sister kept house for me and she suited me fine; she was just reasonably tidy and she let me alone and spoiled me . . . so Emily says.
But three years ago she died.
Before she died she worried a lot about what was to become of me and finally she got me to promise I'd get married.
She advised me to take Emily Scott because Emily had money of her own and was a pattern housekeeper.
I said, says I, 'Emily Scott wouldn't look at me.
You ask her and see,' says my sister; and just to ease her mind I promised her I would . . . and I did.
And Emily said she'd have me.
Never was so surprised in my life, Anne . . . a smart pretty little woman like her and an old fellow like me.
I tell you I thought at first I was in luck.
Well, we were married and took a little wedding trip to St. John for a fortnight and then we went home.
We got home at ten o'clock at night, and I give you my word, Anne, that in half an hour that woman was at work housecleaning.
Oh, I know you're thinking my house needed it . . . you've got a very expressive face, Anne; your thoughts just come out on it like print . . . but it didn't, not that bad.
It had got pretty mixed up while I was keeping bachelor's hall, I admit, but I'd got a woman to come in and clean it up before I was married and there'd been considerable painting and fixing done.
I tell you if you took Emily into a brand new white marble palace she'd be into the scrubbing as soon as she could get an old dress on.
Well, she cleaned house till one o'clock that night and at four she was up and at it again.
And she kept on that way . . . far's I could see she never stopped.
It was scour and sweep and dust everlasting, except on Sundays, and then she was just longing for Monday to begin again.
But it was her way of amusing herself and I could have reconciled myself to it if she'd left me alone.
But that she wouldn't do.
She'd set out to make me over but she hadn't caught me young enough.
I wasn't allowed to come into the house unless I changed my boots for slippers at the door. I darsn't smoke a pipe for my life unless I went to the barn.
And I didn't use good enough grammar.
Emily'd been a schoolteacher in her early life and she'd never got over it.
Then she hated to see me eating with my knife.
Well, there it was, pick and nag everlasting.
But I s'pose, Anne, to be fair, _I_ was cantankerous too.
I didn't try to improve as I might have done . . .
I just got cranky and disagreeable when she found fault.
I told her one day she hadn't complained of my grammar when I proposed to her.
It wasn't an overly tactful thing to say.
A woman would forgive a man for beating her sooner than for hinting she was too much pleased to get him.
Well, we bickered along like that and it wasn't exactly pleasant, but we might have got used to each other after a spell if it hadn't been for Ginger.
Ginger was the rock we split on at last.
Emily didn't like parrots and she couldn't stand Ginger's profane habits of speech.
I was attached to the bird for my brother the sailor's sake.
My brother the sailor was a pet of mine when we were little tads and he'd sent Ginger to me when he was dying. I didn't see any sense in getting worked up over his swearing.
There's nothing I hate worse'n profanity in a human being, but in a parrot, that's just repeating what it's heard with no more understanding of it than I'd have of Chinese, allowances might be made.
But Emily couldn't see it that way.
She tried to break Ginger of swearing but she hadn't any better success than she had in trying to make me stop saying 'I seen' and 'them things.
Seemed as if the more she tried the worse Ginger got, same as me. "Well, things went on like this, both of us getting raspier, till the cli_max_ came.
Emily invited our minister and his wife to tea, and another minister and _his_ wife that was visiting them.
But it slipped my mind . . .
Emily was worrying me so much about clean collars and grammar that it wasn't any wonder . . . and I never thought of that poor parrot till we sat down to tea.
Just as minister number one was in the very middle of saying grace, Ginger, who was on the veranda outside the dining room window, lifted up _his_ voice.
The gobbler had come into view in the yard and the sight of a gobbler always had an unwholesome effect on Ginger.
He surpassed himself that time.
You can smile, Anne, and I don't deny I've chuckled some over it since myself, but at the time I felt almost as much mortified as Emily.
I went out and carried Ginger to the barn.
I can't say I enjoyed the meal.
I knew by the look of Emily that there was trouble brewing for Ginger and James A.
When the folks went away I started for the cow pasture and on the way I did some thinking.
I felt sorry for Emily and kind of fancied I hadn't been so thoughtful of her as I might; and besides, I wondered if the ministers would think that Ginger had learned his vocabulary from _me_.
The long and short of it was, I decided that Ginger would have to be mercifully disposed of and when I'd druv the cows home I went in to tell Emily so.
But there was no Emily and there _was_ a letter on the table . . . just according to the rule in story books.
I packed up her belongings and sent them after her.
It made an awful lot of talk . . .
Scottsford was pretty near as bad as Avonlea for gossip . . . and everybody sympathized with Emily.
It kept me all cross and cantankerous and I saw I'd have to get out or I'd never have any peace.
I concluded I'd come to the Island.
I'd been here when I was a boy and I liked it; but Emily had always said she wouldn't live in a place where folks were scared to walk out after dark for fear they'd fall off the edge.
So, just to be contrary, I moved over here.
And that's all there is to it.
She told me to eat it first and then we'd talk . . . by which I concluded that Emily had learned some lessons about getting along with a man.
So she's here and she's going to stay . . . seeing that Ginger's dead and the Island's some bigger than she thought.
There's Mrs. Lynde and her now.
Stay and get acquainted with Emily.
I want to get acquainted with all my new neighbors just as soon as possible.
Mrs. Lynde is a lovely woman, isn't she?
The blame was far from being all on his side.
I can see that now.
I wasn't back in my own house an hour before I wished I hadn't been so hasty but I wouldn't give in. I see now that I expected too much of a man.
And I was real foolish to mind his bad grammar.
It doesn't matter if a man does use bad grammar so long as he is a good provider and doesn't go poking round the pantry to see how much sugar you've used in a week.
I feel that James A. and I are going to be real happy now.
I wish I knew who 'Observer' is, so that I could thank him. I owe him a real debt of gratitude." Anne kept her own counsel and Mrs. Harrison never knew that her gratitude found its way to its object.
Anne felt rather bewildered over the far-reaching consequences of those foolish "notes.
They had reconciled a man to his wife and made the reputation of a prophet. Mrs. Lynde was in the Green Gables kitchen.
She had been telling the whole story to Marilla. "Well, and how do you like Mrs. Harrison?" she asked Anne. "Very much.
Well, I must get back.
Thomas'll be wearying for me. I get out a little since Eliza came and he's seemed a lot better these past few days, but I never like to be long away from him.
I hear Gilbert Blythe has resigned from White Sands.
He'll be off to college in the fall, I suppose." Mrs. Rachel looked sharply at Anne, but Anne was bending over a sleepy Davy nodding on the sofa and nothing was to be read in her face.
She carried Davy away, her oval girlish cheek pressed against his curly yellow head.
As they went up the stairs Davy flung a tired arm about Anne's neck and gave her a warm hug and a sticky kiss. "You're awful nice, Anne.
His wife was a tender, patient, unwearied nurse.
I'm sorry I ain't leaving you better off; but the children will look after you.
They're all smart, capable children, just like their mother.
I'm going right down to Rachel." On the day after Thomas Lynde's funeral Marilla went about Green Gables with a strangely preoccupied air.
Occasionally she looked at Anne, seemed on the point of saying something, then shook her head and buttoned up her mouth.
Eliza had to go home today . . . her son isn't well and she felt she couldn't stay any longer." "When I've finished these exercises I'll run down and chat awhile with Mrs. Lynde," said Anne.
I had intended to study some Latin composition tonight but it can wait." "I suppose Gilbert Blythe is going to college in the fall," said Marilla jerkily.
How would you like to go too, Anne?" Anne looked up in astonishment. "I would like it, of course, Marilla.
But it isn't possible." "I guess it can be made possible.
Oh, these past two years have just been delightful." "Oh, yes, I know you've been contented enough.
But that isn't the question exactly.
You ought to go on with your education.
You've saved enough to put you through one year at Redmond and the money the stock brought in will do for another year . . . and there's scholarships and things you might win." "Yes, but I can't go, Marilla.
Your eyes are better, of course; but I can't leave you alone with the twins.
They need so much looking after." "I won't be alone with them.
That's what I meant to discuss with you.
I had a long talk with Rachel tonight.
Anne, she's feeling dreadful bad over a good many things.
She's not left very well off.
It seems they mortgaged the farm eight years ago to give the youngest boy a start when he went west; and they've never been able to pay much more than the interest since.
And then of course Thomas' illness has cost a good deal, one way or another.
The farm will have to be sold and Rachel thinks there'll be hardly anything left after the bills are settled. She says she'll have to go and live with Eliza and it's breaking her heart to think of leaving Avonlea.
A woman of her age doesn't make new friends and interests easy.
If I had Rachel living with me you could go to college.
But as for asking Mrs. Lynde to come here, that is for you to decide, Marilla.
Do you think . . . are you sure . . . you would like it?
Mrs. Lynde is a good woman and a kind neighbor, but . . . but . . ." "But she's got her faults, you mean to say?
Well, she has, of course; but I think I'd rather put up with far worse faults than see Rachel go away from Avonlea.
She's the only close friend I've got here and I'd be lost without her.
We've been neighbors for forty-five years and we've never had a quarrel . . . though we came rather near it that time you flew at Mrs. Rachel for calling you homely and redhaired.
Do you remember, Anne?" "I should think I do," said Anne ruefully.
People don't forget things like that.
How I hated poor Mrs. Rachel at that moment!" "And then that 'apology' you made her.
Well, you were a handful, in all conscience, Anne.
I did feel so puzzled and bewildered how to manage you.
Matthew understood you better." "Matthew understood everything," said Anne softly, as she always spoke of him. "Well, I think it could be managed so that Rachel and I wouldn't clash at all.
It always seemed to me that the reason two women can't get along in one house is that they try to share the same kitchen and get in each other's way.
Now, if Rachel came here, she could have the north gable for her bedroom and the spare room for a kitchen as well as not, for we don't really need a spare room at all.
She could put her stove there and what furniture she wanted to keep, and be real comfortable and independent.
She'll have enough to live on of course...her children'll see to that...so all I'd be giving her would be house room. Yes, Anne, far as I'm concerned I'd like it." "Then ask her," said Anne promptly.
I'd be very sorry myself to see Mrs. Rachel go away." "And if she comes," continued Marilla, "You can go to college as well as not.
She'll be company for me and she'll do for the twins what I can't do, so there's no reason in the world why you shouldn't go." Anne had a long meditation at her window that night.
Joy and regret struggled together in her heart.
She must give up her school . . . and she loved every one of her pupils, even the stupid and naughty ones.
But it's best to go, I think, and, as Marilla says, there's no good reason why I shouldn't.
I must get out all my ambitions and dust them." Anne sent in her resignation the next day; and Mrs. Rachel, after a heart to heart talk with Marilla, gratefully accepted the offer of a home at Green Gables.
But really, Green Gables doesn't seem as out of the world as it used to do . . .
Anne has lots of company and the twins make it real lively.
And anyhow, I'd rather live at the bottom of a well than leave Avonlea." These two decisions being noised abroad speedily ousted the arrival of Mrs. Harrison in popular gossip.
Sage heads were shaken over Marilla Cuthbert's rash step in asking Mrs. Rachel to live with her.
People opined that they wouldn't get on together.
They were both "too fond of their own way," and many doleful predictions were made, none of which disturbed the parties in question at all.
You'll miss Anne for that." "Sometimes Anne's answers were about as queer as Davy's questions," said Marilla drily.
The twins will miss her and no mistake; but her future can't be sacrificed to Davy's thirst for information.
When he asks questions I can't answer I'll just tell him children should be seen and not heard.
He is a reformed character, that's what." "He isn't a bad little soul," conceded Marilla.
I never expected to get as fond of those children as I have.
Davy gets round you somehow . . . and Dora is a lovely child, although she is . . . kind of . . . well, kind of . . ." "Monotonous?
Like a book where every page is the same, that's what.
Dora will make a good, reliable woman but she'll never set the pond on fire.
Well, that sort of folks are comfortable to have round, even if they're not as interesting as the other kind." Gilbert Blythe was probably the only person to whom the news of Anne's resignation brought unmixed pleasure.
Her pupils looked upon it as a sheer catastrophe.
Annetta Bell had hysterics when she went home. Anthony Pye fought two pitched and unprovoked battles with other boys by way of relieving his feelings.
Barbara Shaw cried all night.
Paul Irving defiantly told his grandmother that she needn't expect him to eat any porridge for a week. "I can't do it, Grandma," he said.
I don't really know if I can eat _anything_.
I feel as if there was a dreadful lump in my throat.
I'd have cried coming home from school if Jake Donnell hadn't been watching me.
I believe I will cry after I go to bed.
It wouldn't show on my eyes tomorrow, would it?
And it would be such a relief.
But anyway, I can't eat porridge.
I'm going to need all my strength of mind to bear up against this, Grandma, and I won't have any left to grapple with porridge.
Oh Grandma, I don't know what I'll do when my beautiful teacher goes away.
Milty Boulter says he bets Jane Andrews will get the school.
I suppose Miss Andrews is very nice.
You and Gilbert will be gone . . . and the Allans too.
They are going to call Mr. Allan to Charlottetown and of course he'll accept.
He wants the call but he does preach such gloomy sermons.
Mr. Bell says he's a minister of the old school, but Mrs. Lynde says there's nothing whatever the matter with him but indigestion.
His wife isn't a very good cook, it seems, and Mrs. Lynde says that when a man has to eat sour bread two weeks out of three his theology is bound to get a kink in it somewhere.
Mrs. Allan feels very badly about going away.
She says everybody has been so kind to her since she came here as a bride that she feels as if she were leaving lifelong friends.
And then, there's the baby's grave, you know.
She says she has slipped through the birch grove back of the manse nearly every night to the graveyard and sung a little lullaby to it.
She told me all about it last evening when I was up putting some of those early wild roses on Matthew's grave.
I promised her that as long as I was in Avonlea I would put flowers on the baby's grave and when I was away I felt sure that . . ." "That I would do it," supplied Diana heartily.
And I'll put them on Matthew's grave too, for your sake, Anne." "Oh, thank you.
I meant to ask you to if you would.
And on little Hester Gray's too?
Do you know, I've thought and dreamed so much about little Hester Gray that she has become strangely real to me.
And we would sit down on the old bench and talk a little and dream a little, or just be beautifully silent together.
And I would not know whether it had been real or if I had just imagined it all.
Diana crawled up and got her back against the headboard of the bed.
It is too firmly established for that, especially since the older people are becoming so enthusiastic about it.
Look what they are doing this summer for their lawns and lanes.
Besides, I'll be watching for hints at Redmond and I'll write a paper for it next winter and send it over.
Don't take such a gloomy view of things, Diana.
And don't grudge me my little hour of gladness and jubilation now.
Well, of course these past two years have really been too pleasant to last.
I know _somebody_ who is glad you are going to Redmond anyhow.
Anne, I'm going to ask you a question . . . a serious question.
Don't be vexed and do answer seriously.
Do you care anything for Gilbert?" "Ever so much as a friend and not a bit in the way you mean," said Anne calmly and decidedly; she also thought she was speaking sincerely. Diana sighed.
You know what my ideal is, Diana." "But people's ideals change sometimes." "Mine won't.
And I _couldn't_ care for any man who didn't fulfill it." "What if you never meet him?" "Then I shall die an old maid," was the cheerful response.
I daresay it isn't the hardest death by any means." "Oh, I suppose the dying would be easy enough; it's the living an old maid I shouldn't like," said Diana, with no intention of being humorous.
Although I wouldn't mind being an old maid _very_ much if I could be one like Miss Lavendar.
But I never could be.
When I'm forty-five I'll be horribly fat.
And while there might be some romance about a thin old maid there couldn't possibly be any about a fat one. Oh, mind you, Nelson Atkins proposed to Ruby Gillis three weeks ago. Ruby told me all about it.
I liked her when we went to school and Queen's together . . . though not so well as you and Jane of course.
But this last year at Carmody she seems so different . . . so . . . so . . ." "I know," nodded Diana.
It's the Gillis coming out in her . . . she can't help it.
And the strange thing is, they _are_, too . . .
Diana admitted this somewhat resentfully.
Last night when I saw her in Mr. Blair's store she whispered to me that she'd just made a new 'mash.
I wouldn't ask her who it was, because I knew she was dying to _be_ asked.
Well, it's what Ruby always wanted, I suppose.
You remember even when she was little she always said she meant to have dozens of beaus when she grew up and have the very gayest time she could before she settled down.
She's so different from Jane, isn't she?
We've kept that 'oath,' I think . . . we've never had a quarrel nor even a coolness.
I shall never forget the thrill that went over me the day you told me you loved me.
I had had such a lonely, starved heart all through my childhood.
I'm just beginning to realize how starved and lonely it really was.
Nobody cared anything for me or wanted to be bothered with me.
I should have been miserable if it hadn't been for that strange little dream-life of mine, wherein I imagined all the friends and love I craved.
But when I came to Green Gables everything was changed.
And then I met you.
You don't know what your friendship meant to me.
I want to thank you here and now, dear, for the warm and true affection you've always given me." "And always, always will," sobbed Diana.
I shall _never_ love anybody . . . any _girl_ . . . half as well as I love you.
And if I ever do marry and have a little girl of my own I'm going to name her _Anne_." XXVII An Afternoon at the Stone House "Where are you going, all dressed up, Anne?
You look bully in that dress." Anne had come down to dinner in a new dress of pale green muslin . . . the first color she had worn since Matthew's death.
It became her perfectly, bringing out all the delicate, flower-like tints of her face and the gloss and burnish of her hair. "Davy, how many times have I told you that you mustn't use that word," she rebuked.
I'm going to Echo Lodge." "Take me with you," entreated Davy. "I would if I were driving.
But I'm going to walk and it's too far for your eight-year-old legs.
Besides, Paul is going with me and I fear you don't enjoy yourself in his company." "Oh, I like Paul lots better'n I did," said Davy, beginning to make fearful inroads into his pudding.
Since I've got pretty good myself I don't mind his being gooder so much.
If I can keep on I'll catch up with him some day, both in legs and goodness.
Sides, Paul's real nice to us second primer boys in school.
He won't let the other big boys meddle with us and he shows us lots of games." "How came Paul to fall into the brook at noon hour yesterday?" asked Anne.
I met him on the playground, such a dripping figure that I sent him promptly home for clothes without waiting to find out what had happened." "Well, it was partly a zacksident," explained Davy.
He stuck his head in on purpose but the rest of him fell in zacksidentally.
He got as red as a beet and said his grandmother didn't do any such thing and his hair was born curly.
And then he laid down on the bank and stuck his head right into the spring to show them.
Oh, it wasn't the spring we drink out of . . ." seeing a horrified look on Marilla's face . . . "it was the little one lower down.
But the bank's awful slippy and Paul went right in. I tell you he made a bully splash.
Oh, Anne, Anne, I didn't mean to say that . . . it just slipped out before I thought.
He made a _splendid_ splash.
But he looked so funny when he crawled out, all wet and muddy.
The girls laughed more'n ever, but Gracie didn't laugh.
She looked sorry. Gracie's a nice girl but she's got a snub nose.
When I get big enough to have a girl I won't have one with a snub nose . . .
And I'll wash behind my ears too, without being told.
I remembered to this morning, Marilla.
I don't forget half as often as I did.
But . . ." and Davy sighed . . . "there's so many corners about a fellow that it's awful hard to remember them all.
Well, if I can't go to Miss Lavendar's I'll go over and see Mrs. Harrison.
Mrs. Harrison's an awful nice woman, I tell you.
Mr. Harrison was always a nice man, but he's twice as nice since he got married over again.
I guess getting married makes folks nicer.
Why don't _you_ get married, Marilla?
Seems to me everything's put on the men in this world.
Can I have some more pudding, Marilla?" "You've had as much as was good for you," said Marilla; but she gave him a moderate second helping. "I wish people could live on pudding.
I want to know." "Because they'd soon get tired of it." "I'd like to try that for myself," said skeptical Davy.
But I guess it's better to have pudding only on fish and company days than none at all.
They never have any at Milty Boulter's.
Davy had picked this expression up from Mr. Harrison and used it with great gusto . . .
Milty meant it as a compelment.
He's awful proud of his mother, cause folks say she could scratch a living on a rock." "I . . .
I suppose them pesky hens are in my pansy bed again," said Marilla, rising and going out hurriedly. The slandered hens were nowhere near the pansy bed and Marilla did not even glance at it.
Miss Lavendar herself, all gay and sweet in the frills and laces she loved, dropped her shears and ran joyously to meet her guests, while Charlotta the Fourth grinned cheerfully. "Welcome, Anne.
I thought you'd come today.
You belong to the afternoon so it brought you.
Things that belong together are sure to come together.
What a lot of trouble that would save some people if they only knew it.
But they don't . . . and so they waste beautiful energy moving heaven and earth to bring things together that _don't_ belong. And you, Paul . . . why, you've grown!
You're half a head taller than when you were here before." "Yes, I've begun to grow like pigweed in the night, as Mrs. Lynde says," said Paul, in frank delight over the fact.
Grandma says it's the porridge taking effect at last.
Goodness knows . . .
Paul sighed deeply . . .
I've eaten enough to make anyone grow.
The day of his first visit had been too windy for echoes and Paul had been much disappointed. "Yes, just the best kind of a day," answered Miss Lavendar, rousing herself from her reverie.
But first we are all going to have something to eat.
I know you two folks didn't walk all the way back here through those beechwoods without getting hungry, and Charlotta the Fourth and I can eat any hour of the day . . . we have such obliging appetites.
So we'll just make a raid on the pantry.
But she doesn't approve of snacks between meals.
I suppose that snacks _are_ extremely unwholesome.
That is why we have them so often at Echo Lodge. We. . .
Charlotta the Fourth and I . . . live in defiance of every known law of diet.
We eat all sorts of indigestible things whenever we happen to think of it, by day or night; and we flourish like green bay trees.
We are always intending to reform.
When we read any article in a paper warning us against something we like we cut it out and pin it up on the kitchen wall so that we'll remember it.
But we never can somehow . . . until after we've gone and eaten that very thing.
So I'm always glad when it's Sunday night . . . for more reasons than one.
Sunday is a very long day on the shore road.
Grandma says it's all too short for her and that father never found Sundays tiresome when he was a little boy.
It wouldn't seem so long if I could talk to my rock people but I never do that because Grandma doesn't approve of it on Sundays.
I think a good deal; but I'm afraid my thoughts are worldly.
Grandma says we should never think anything but religious thoughts on Sundays.
But teacher here said once that every really beautiful thought was religious, no matter what it was about, or what day we thought it on.
But I feel sure Grandma thinks that sermons and Sunday School lessons are the only things you can think truly religious thoughts about.
And when it comes to a difference of opinion between Grandma and teacher I don't know what to do.
In my heart" . . . Paul laid his hand on his breast and raised very serious blue eyes to Miss Lavendar's immediately sympathetic face . . .
But then, you see, Grandma has brought father up _her_ way and made a brilliant success of him; and teacher has never brought anybody up yet, though she's helping with Davy and Dora.
But you can't tell how they'll turn out till they _are_ grown up.
So sometimes I feel as if it might be safer to go by Grandma's opinions." "I think it would," agreed Anne solemnly.
Anyway, I daresay that if your Grandma and I both got down to what we really do mean, under our different ways of expressing it, we'd find out we both meant much the same thing.
You'd better go by her way of expressing it, since it's been the result of experience.
I ought to be glad for your sake, Anne . . . but I'm horribly, selfishly sorry.
I shall miss you so much.
Oh, sometimes, I think it is of no use to make friends.
There are such things as letters and vacations.
Miss Lavendar made an impatient movement with her pretty hands. "I'm just tired of everything . . . even of the echoes.
There is nothing in my life but echoes . . . echoes of lost hopes and dreams and joys.
Oh Anne, it's horrid of me to talk like this when I have company.
It's just that I'm getting old and it doesn't agree with me.
I know I'll be fearfully cranky by the time I'm sixty.
But perhaps all I need is a course of blue pills.
Oh, I'm not so old as I thought . . . and I don't need a single blue pill!
Girls, when you come back with your strawberries we'll have tea out here under the silver poplar.
I just feel as if I were drinking in the sunshine." "Yes, ma'am, so do I.
That's just exactly how I feel too, ma'am," agreed Charlotta the Fourth, who would have said precisely the same thing if Anne had remarked that she felt like a pelican of the wilderness.
Always after Anne had visited Echo Lodge Charlotta the Fourth mounted to her little room over the kitchen and tried before her looking glass to speak and look and move like Anne.
It seemed so easy when you watched Anne.
Charlotta the Fourth admired Anne wholeheartedly.
It was not that she thought her so very handsome.
She was used to taking her compliments mixed.
Public opinion never agreed on Anne's looks.
People who had heard her called handsome met her and were disappointed.
People who had heard her called plain saw her and wondered where other people's eyes were.
Anne herself would never believe that she had any claim to beauty.
When she looked in the glass all she saw was a little pale face with seven freckles on the nose thereof.
The warm-hearted little handmaiden was honestly worried over her adored mistress' condition. "Miss Lavendar isn't well, Miss Shirley, ma'am. I'm sure she isn't, though she never complains.
She hasn't seemed like herself this long while, ma'am . . . not since that day you and Paul were here together before.
I feel sure she caught cold that night, ma'am. After you and him had gone she went out and walked in the garden for long after dark with nothing but a little shawl on her.
There was a lot of snow on the walks and I feel sure she got a chill, ma'am. Ever since then I've noticed her acting tired and lonesome like.
She don't seem to take an interest in anything, ma'am. She never pretends company's coming, nor fixes up for it, nor nothing, ma'am. It's only when you come she seems to chirk up a bit.
And the worst sign of all, Miss Shirley, ma'am . . .
Charlotta the Fourth lowered her voice as if she were about to tell some exceedingly weird and awful symptom indeed . . . "is that she never gets cross now when I breaks things.
Why, Miss Shirley, ma'am, yesterday I bruk her green and yaller bowl that's always stood on the bookcase.
Her grandmother brought it out from England and Miss Lavendar was awful choice of it.
I was dusting it just as careful, Miss Shirley, ma'am, and it slipped out, so fashion, afore I could grab holt of it, and bruk into about forty millyun pieces.
I tell you I was sorry and scared.
I thought Miss Lavendar would scold me awful, ma'am; and I'd ruther she had than take it the way she did.
She just come in and hardly looked at it and said, 'It's no matter, Charlotta.
Take up the pieces and throw them away.
Just like that, Miss Shirley, ma'am . . . 'take up the pieces and throw them away,' as if it wasn't her grandmother's bowl from England.
Oh, she isn't well and I feel awful bad about it.
She's got nobody to look after her but me." Charlotta the Fourth's eyes brimmed up with tears.
Anne patted the little brown paw holding the cracked pink cup sympathetically. "I think Miss Lavendar needs a change, Charlotta.
She stays here alone too much.
Last time when she come home she said she wasn't going to visit for family duty no more.
I've come home in love with loneliness, Charlotta,' she says to me, 'and I never want to stray from my own vine and fig tree again.
My relations try so hard to make an old lady of me and it has a bad effect on me.
Just like that, Miss Shirley, ma'am. 'It has a very bad effect on me.
So I don't think it would do any good to coax her to go visiting." "We must see what can be done," said Anne decidedly, as she put the last possible berry in her pink cup.
Just as soon as I have my vacation I'll come through and spend a whole week with you.
We'll have a picnic every day and pretend all sorts of interesting things, and see if we can't cheer Miss Lavendar up." "That will be the very thing, Miss Shirley, ma'am," exclaimed Charlotta the Fourth in rapture.
She was glad for Miss Lavendar's sake and for her own too.
Nothing ever tasted so delicious as those strawberries and cream, eaten under a great blue sky all curdled over with fluffy little white clouds, and in the long shadows of the wood with its lispings and its murmurings.
After tea Anne helped Charlotta wash the dishes in the kitchen, while Miss Lavendar sat on the stone bench with Paul and heard all about his rock people.
Do I seem very old to you, Paul?" "Do you know, I can't make up my mind about that," said Paul confidentially.
Your hair looks old . . .
I never knew a young person with white hair.
But your eyes are as young as my beautiful teacher's when you laugh.
I tell you what, Miss Lavendar" . . .
Paul's voice and face were as solemn as a judge's . . .
I think you would make a splendid mother.
You have just the right look in your eyes . . . the look my little mother always had.
I think it's a pity you haven't any boys of your own." "I have a little dream boy, Paul." "Oh, have you really?
How old is he?" "About your age I think.
He ought to be older because I dreamed him long before you were born.
But I'll never let him get any older than eleven or twelve; because if I did some day he might grow up altogether and then I'd lose him." "I know," nodded Paul.
That's the beauty of dream-people . . . they stay any age you want them.
You and my beautiful teacher and me myself are the only folks in the world that I know of that have dream-people. Isn't it funny and nice we should all know each other?
But I guess that kind of people always find each other out.
Grandma never has dream-people and Mary Joe thinks I'm wrong in the upper story because I have them.
But I think it's splendid to have them. _You_ know, Miss Lavendar.
Tell me all about your little dream-boy." "He has blue eyes and curly hair.
He steals in and wakens me with a kiss every morning.
Then all day he plays here in the garden . . . and I play with him.
Such games as we have.
We run races and talk with the echoes; and I tell him stories.
And when twilight comes . . ." "_I_ know," interrupted Paul eagerly.
A triumphant "semi-annual examination" was held and Anne's pupils acquitted themselves splendidly.
To be sure," she added hastily, "we all know we'll have a good teacher next year too." "Jane will do her duty, I've no doubt," said Mrs. Andrews rather stiffly.
I don't suppose she'll tell the children quite so many fairy tales or spend so much time roaming about the woods with them.
But she has her name on the Inspector's Roll of Honor and the Newbridge people are in a terrible state over her leaving." "I'm real glad Anne is going to college," said Mrs. Bell.
She has always wanted it and it will be a splendid thing for her." "Well, I don't know.
Mrs. Andrews was determined not to agree fully with anybody that day.
I don't see that Anne needs any more education. She'll probably be marrying Gilbert Blythe, if his infatuation for her lasts till he gets through college, and what good will Latin and Greek do her then?
That means we'll be losing him soon, I suppose." "They're not going before September," said Mrs. Sloane.
It will be a great loss to the community . . . though I always did think that Mrs. Allan dressed rather too gay for a minister's wife.
But we are none of us perfect.
Did you notice how neat and snug Mr. Harrison looked today? I never saw such a changed man.
He goes to church every Sunday and has subscribed to the salary." "Hasn't that Paul Irving grown to be a big boy?" said Mrs. Andrews.
He was such a mite for his age when he came here.
I declare I hardly knew him today.
He's getting to look a lot like his father." "He's a smart boy," said Mrs. Bell. "He's smart enough, but" . . .
Mrs. Andrews lowered her voice . . .
I believe he tells queer stories.
Gracie came home from school one day last week with the greatest rigmarole he had told her about people who lived down at the shore . . . stories there couldn't be a word of truth in, you know.
I told Gracie not to believe them, and she said Paul didn't intend her to.
But if he didn't what did he tell them to her for?" "Anne says Paul is a genius," said Mrs. Sloane. "He may be.
You never know what to expect of them Americans," said Mrs. Andrews.
Mrs. Andrews' only acquaintance with the word "genius" was derived from the colloquial fashion of calling any eccentric individual "a queer genius.
Her heart was so wrung over the parting with her pupils that for a moment college had lost all its charm.
She had had her reward.
She had taught her scholars something, but she felt that they had taught her much more . . . lessons of tenderness, self-control, innocent wisdom, lore of childish hearts.
Miss Lavendar had complained that she could not feel much interest in anything, but the sparkle came back to her eyes over her pretty dress. "What a foolish, frivolous person I must be," she sighed.
In the evening she went down to the shore road to see Paul Irving.
Father is here . . . just think of that!
Come right in. Father, this is my beautiful teacher. _You_ know, father." Stephen Irving came forward to meet Anne with a smile.
It was so disappointing to meet someone who ought to be a hero and find him bald or stooped, or otherwise lacking in manly beauty.
Anne would have thought it dreadful if the object of Miss Lavendar's romance had not looked the part. "So this is my little son's 'beautiful teacher,' of whom I have heard so much," said Mr. Irving with a hearty handshake.
Paul's letters have been so full of you, Miss Shirley, that I feel as if I were pretty well acquainted with you already.
I want to thank you for what you have done for Paul.
I think that your influence has been just what he needed. Mother is one of the best and dearest of women; but her robust, matter-of-fact Scotch common sense could not always understand a temperament like my laddie's.
What was lacking in her you have supplied.
Between you, I think Paul's training in these two past years has been as nearly ideal as a motherless boy's could be." Everybody likes to be appreciated.
Even Grandma didn't know it.
It was a great surprise.
As a general thing . . .
Paul shook his brown curls gravely . . .
I don't like to be surprised.
You lose all the fun of expecting things when you're surprised.
But in a case like this it is all right.
Father came last night after I had gone to bed.
And after Grandma and Mary Joe had stopped being surprised he and Grandma came upstairs to look at me, not meaning to wake me up till morning.
But I woke right up and saw father.
I tell you I just sprang at him." "With a hug like a bear's," said Mr. Irving, putting his arms around Paul's shoulder smilingly.
I hardly knew my boy, he had grown so big and brown and sturdy." "I don't know which was the most pleased to see father, Grandma or I," continued Paul.
Grandma's been in kitchen all day making the things father likes to eat.
She wouldn't trust them to Mary Joe, she says. That's _her_ way of showing gladness. _I_ like best just to sit and talk to father.
But I'm going to leave you for a little while now if you'll excuse me.
I must get the cows for Mary Joe.
That is one of my daily duties." When Paul had scampered away to do his "daily duty" Mr. Irving talked to Anne of various matters.
But Anne felt that he was thinking of something else underneath all the time.
Presently it came to the surface. "In Paul's last letter he spoke of going with you to visit an old . . . friend of mine . . .
Miss Lewis at the stone house in Grafton.
Do you know her well?" "Yes, indeed, she is a _very_ dear friend of mine," was Anne's demure reply, which gave no hint of the sudden thrill that tingled over her from head to foot at Mr. Irving's question.
Anne "felt instinctively" that romance was peeping at her around a corner. Mr. Irving rose and went to the window, looking out on a great, golden, billowing sea where a wild wind was harping.
For a few moments there was silence in the little dark-walled room.
Then he turned and looked down into Anne's sympathetic face with a smile, half-whimsical, half-tender. "I wonder how much you know," he said. "I know all about it," replied Anne promptly.
You see," she explained hastily, "Miss Lavendar and I are very intimate.
She wouldn't tell things of such a sacred nature to everybody.
We are kindred spirits." "Yes, I believe you are.
Well, I am going to ask a favor of you.
I would like to go and see Miss Lavendar if she will let me.
Will you ask her if I may come?" Would she not?
Yes, this was romance, the very, the real thing, with all the charm of rhyme and story and dream.
It was a little belated, perhaps, like a rose blooming in October which should have bloomed in June; but none the less a rose, all sweetness and fragrance, with the gleam of gold in its heart.
Never did Anne's feet bear her on a more willing errand than on that walk through the beechwoods to Grafton the next morning.
She found Miss Lavendar in the garden.
Her hands grew cold and her voice trembled. "Miss Lavendar, I have something to tell you . . . something very important.
Who told you?" cried Anne disappointedly, vexed that her great revelation had been anticipated. "Nobody.
I knew that must be it, just from the way you spoke." "He wants to come and see you," said Anne.
May I send him word that he may?" "Yes, of course," fluttered Miss Lavendar.
There is no reason why he shouldn't.
The important note was written and Anne herself carried it to the Grafton post office, where she waylaid the mail carrier and asked him to leave it at the Avonlea office. "It's so very important," Anne assured him anxiously.
The mail carrier was a rather grumpy old personage who did not at all look the part of a messenger of Cupid; and Anne was none too certain that his memory was to be trusted.
Miss Lavendar roamed about the garden in a distracted fashion.
Anne, too, seemed possessed by a demon of unrest, and walked to and fro and went up and down.
However, I'll tell you this much . . . and if nothing comes of it you must never breathe a word about it to a living soul.
You see, Prince Charming is coming tonight.
He came long ago, but in a foolish moment went away and wandered afar and forgot the secret of the magic pathway to the enchanted castle, where the princess was weeping her faithful heart out for him.
It is Paul's father . . .
And goodness knows what will come of it, but let us hope for the best, Charlotta." "I hope that he'll marry Miss Lavendar," was Charlotta's unequivocal response.
Some women's intended from the start to be old maids, and I'm afraid I'm one of them, Miss Shirley, ma'am, because I've awful little patience with the men.
But Miss Lavendar never was.
And I've been awful worried, thinking what on earth she'd do when I got so big I'd _have_ to go to Boston.
After tea Miss Lavendar went to her room and put on her new forget-me-not organdy, while Anne did her hair for her.
Those curtains have not worn as well as they should, considering the price I paid.
Dear me, Charlotta has forgotten to dust the stair railing _again_.
There is nothing changed about this house or garden since I was here twenty-five years ago.
It makes me feel young again." "You know time always does stand still in an enchanted palace," said Anne seriously.
It is only when the prince comes that things begin to happen." Mr. Irving smiled a little sadly into her uplifted face, all astar with its youth and promise. "Sometimes the prince comes too late," he said.
He did not ask Anne to translate her remark into prose.
Like all kindred spirits he "understood." "Oh, no, not if he is the real prince coming to the true princess," said Anne, shaking her red head decidedly, as she opened the parlor door.
What if he don't propose after all, Miss Shirley, ma'am?
You can never be sure of them men.
My older sister, Charlotta the First, thought she was engaged to one once.
But it turned out _he_ had a different opinion and she says she'll never trust one of them again.
And it will pass the time." It passed an hour.
Then, just as Anne laid down the last shining spoon, they heard the front door shut.
Both sought comfort fearfully in each other's eyes. "Oh, Miss Shirley, ma'am," gasped Charlotta, "if he's going away this early there's nothing into it and never will be.
They flew to the window.
Mr. Irving had no intention of going away.
He and Miss Lavendar were strolling slowly down the middle path to the stone bench. "Oh, Miss Shirley, ma'am, he's got his arm around her waist," whispered Charlotta the Fourth delightedly.
There'll be a wedding in this old stone house before the maple leaves are red. Do you want that translated into prose, Charlotta?" "No, I can understand that," said Charlotta.
A wedding ain't poetry. Why, Miss Shirley, ma'am, you're crying!
The preparation of her own modest outfit for Redmond was of secondary importance.
Miss Lavendar was getting ready to be married and the stone house was the scene of endless consultations and plannings and discussions, with Charlotta the Fourth hovering on the outskirts of things in agitated delight and wonder.
Then the dressmaker came, and there was the rapture and wretchedness of choosing fashions and being fitted.
Paul Irving rushed to Green Gables to talk the news over with Anne as soon as his father had told him. "I knew I could trust father to pick me out a nice little second mother," he said proudly.
It's a fine thing to have a father you can depend on, teacher.
I just love Miss Lavendar.
Grandma is pleased, too. She says she's real glad father didn't pick out an American for his second wife, because, although it turned out all right the first time, such a thing wouldn't be likely to happen twice.
Mrs. Lynde says she thoroughly approves of the match and thinks its likely Miss Lavendar will give up her queer notions and be like other people, now that she's going to be married.
But I hope she won't give her queer notions up, teacher, because I like them.
And I don't want her to be like other people.
There are too many other people around as it is. _You_ know, teacher." Charlotta the Fourth was another radiant person. "Oh, Miss Shirley, ma'am, it has all turned out so beautiful.
When Mr. Irving and Miss Lavendar come back from their tower I'm to go up to Boston and live with them . . . and me only fifteen, and the other girls never went till they were sixteen.
He just worships the ground she treads on and it makes me feel so queer sometimes to see the look in his eyes when he's watching her.
It beggars description, Miss Shirley, ma'am. I'm awful thankful they're so fond of each other.
It's the best way, when all's said and done, though some folks can get along without it.
I've got an aunt who has been married three times and says she married the first time for love and the last two times for strictly business, and was happy with all three except at the times of the funerals.
But I think she took a resk, Miss Shirley, ma'am." "Oh, it's all so romantic," breathed Anne to Marilla that night.
Mr. Irving says whenever he got that letter he made up his mind to send his partner to San Francisco and come here instead.
He hadn't heard anything of Miss Lavendar for fifteen years.
Somebody had told him then that she was to be married and he thought she was and never asked anybody anything about her.
And now everything has come right.
And I had a hand in bringing it about.
Perhaps, as Mrs. Lynde says, everything is foreordained and it was bound to happen anyway.
But even so, it's nice to think one was an instrument used by predestination.
Yes indeed, it's very romantic." "I can't see that it's so terribly romantic at all," said Marilla rather crisply.
Marilla thought Anne was too worked up about it and had plenty to do with getting ready for college without "traipsing" to Echo Lodge two days out of three helping Miss Lavendar.
In the first place two young fools quarrel and turn sulky; then Steve Irving goes to the States and after a spell gets married up there and is perfectly happy from all accounts.
Now, where is the romance in all that?" "Oh, there isn't any, when you put it that way," gasped Anne, rather as if somebody had thrown cold water over her.
I suppose that's how it looks in prose.
But it's very different if you look at it through poetry . . . and _I_ think it's nicer . . .
Anne recovered herself and her eyes shone and her cheeks flushed . . . "to look at it through poetry." Marilla glanced at the radiant young face and refrained from further sarcastic comments.
They are to be married in the garden under the honeysuckle trellis . . . the very spot where Mr. Irving proposed to her twenty-five years ago.
Marilla, that _is_ romantic, even in prose.
There's to be nobody there except Mrs. Irving and Paul and Gilbert and Diana and I, and Miss Lavendar's cousins.
And they will leave on the six o'clock train for a trip to the Pacific coast.
When they come back in the fall Paul and Charlotta the Fourth are to go up to Boston to live with them.
But Echo Lodge is to be left just as it is. . . only of course they'll sell the hens and cow, and board up the windows . . . and every summer they're coming down to live in it.
It would have hurt me dreadfully next winter at Redmond to think of that dear stone house all stripped and deserted, with empty rooms . . . or far worse still, with other people living in it.
Anne stumbled suddenly on it one evening when she went over to Orchard Slope by the wood cut and came out into the Barry garden.
Diana Barry and Fred Wright were standing together under the big willow.
Diana was leaning against the gray trunk, her lashes cast down on very crimson cheeks. One hand was held by Fred, who stood with his face bent toward her, stammering something in low earnest tones.
Oh, it does seem so . . . so . . . so _hopelessly_ grown up." Anne, of late, had not been without her suspicions that Diana was proving false to the melancholy Byronic hero of her early dreams.
But as "things seen are mightier than things heard," or suspected, the realization that it was actually so came to her with almost the shock of perfect surprise.
And I'm afraid that this can't help making some difference between Diana and me.
I'm sure I can't tell her all my secrets after this . . . she might tell Fred.
And what _can_ she see in Fred?
He's very nice and jolly . . . but he's just Fred Wright." It is always a very puzzling question . . . what can somebody see in somebody else?
But how fortunate after all that it is so, for if everybody saw alike . . . well, in that case, as the old Indian said, "Everybody would want my squaw.
It was plain that Diana _did_ see something in Fred Wright, however Anne's eyes might be holden.
I didn't mean _that_ . . . it's so hard to explain.
Never mind, you'll understand sometime, when your own turn comes." "Bless you, dearest of Dianas, I understand now.
What is an imagination for if not to enable you to peep at life through other people's eyes?" "You must be my bridesmaid, you know, Anne.
But three years isn't any too much time to get ready for housekeeping, for I haven't a speck of fancy work made yet.
But I'm going to begin crocheting doilies tomorrow.
I was only teasing you a bit.
I think you'll make the sweetest little housekeeper in the world.
But somehow I wouldn't want Fred to be tall and slender . . . because, don't you see, he wouldn't be Fred then.
Of course," added Diana rather dolefully, "we will be a dreadfully pudgy couple.
But after all that's better than one of us being short and fat and the other tall and lean, like Morgan Sloane and his wife.
But when my turn comes . . . if it ever does . . .
I do hope there'll be something a little more thrilling about it.
But then Diana thought so too, once.
I've heard her say time and again she'd never get engaged any poky commonplace way . . . he'd _have_ to do something splendid to win her.
But I won't . . . and I'm determined I won't.
Oh, I think these engagements are dreadfully unsettling things when they happen to your intimate friends." XXX A Wedding at the Stone House The last week in August came.
Miss Lavendar was to be married in it. Two weeks later Anne and Gilbert would leave for Redmond College.
In a week's time Mrs. Rachel Lynde would move to Green Gables and set up her lares and penates in the erstwhile spare room, which was already prepared for her coming.
She had sold all her superfluous household plenishings by auction and was at present reveling in the congenial occupation of helping the Allans pack up.
Mr. Allan was to preach his farewell sermon the next Sunday.
The old order was changing rapidly to give place to the new, as Anne felt with a little sadness threading all her excitement and happiness. "Changes ain't totally pleasant but they're excellent things," said Mr. Harrison philosophically.
Two years is about long enough for things to stay exactly the same.
If they stayed put any longer they might grow mossy." Mr. Harrison was smoking on his veranda.
His wife had self-sacrificingly told that he might smoke in the house if he took care to sit by an open window.
Miss Lavendar herself never had dahlias; she did not like them and they would not have suited the fine retirement of her old-fashioned garden.
Well, we're going to miss you an awful lot, Emily and me.
To be sure, Mrs. Lynde'll be over there in your place. There ain't nobody but a substitute can be found for them." The irony of Mr. Harrison's tone is quite untransferable to paper.
In spite of his wife's intimacy with Mrs. Lynde, the best that could be said of the relationship between her and Mr. Harrison even under the new regime, was that they preserved an armed neutrality. "Yes, I'm going," said Anne.
What I want to get out of my college course is some knowledge of the best way of living life and doing the most and best with it.
I want to learn to understand and help other people and myself." Mr. Harrison nodded. "That's the idea exactly.
That's what college ought to be for, instead of for turning out a lot of B.A.'s, so chock full of book-learning and vanity that there ain't room for anything else.
They found the stone house agog with excitement.
Charlotta the Fourth was flying around with such vim and briskness that her blue bows seemed really to possess the power of being everywhere at once.
I was thankful when Mr. Irving came a few minutes ago and took her off for a walk in the woods.
Courting's all right in its place, Miss Shirley, ma'am, but if you try to mix it up with cooking and scouring everything's spoiled.
That's _my_ opinion, Miss Shirley, ma'am." Anne and Diana worked so heartily that by ten o'clock even Charlotta the Fourth was satisfied.
To Diana, Charlotta the Fourth was, if not exactly a thing of beauty, certainly a joy forever. "They're not things that go by habit," said Charlotta the Fourth with dignity.
They just _happen_ . . . and there you are. _Anybody_ can have a stroke.
You don't have to learn how.
Mr. Irving looks a lot like an uncle of mine that had one once just as he was sitting down to dinner one day.
But maybe everything'll go all right.
In this world you've just got to hope for the best and prepare for the worst and take whatever God sends." "The only thing I'm worried about is that it won't be fine tomorrow," said Diana.
Anne flew to the window, hoping against hope that Charlotta the Fourth was saying this merely by way of rousing her effectually.
But alas, the morning did look unpropitious.
It'll hold off till the last minute and then pour cats and dogs.
They went out to the honeysuckle arbor, where Mr. Allan was awaiting them.
The guests grouped themselves as they pleased.
Anne and Diana stood by the old stone bench, with Charlotta the Fourth between them, desperately clutching their hands in her cold, tremulous little paws. Mr. Allan opened his blue book and the ceremony proceeded.
Just as Miss Lavendar and Stephen Irving were pronounced man and wife a very beautiful and symbolic thing happened.
The sun suddenly burst through the gray and poured a flood of radiance on the happy bride.
Instantly the garden was alive with dancing shadows and flickering lights. "What a lovely omen," thought Anne, as she ran to kiss the bride.
As Miss Lavendar . . .
But it was reserved for Paul to give the prettiest send-off. He popped out of the porch ringing furiously a huge old brass dinner bell which had adorned the dining room mantel.
Anne and Charlotta had come back to put things in order and lock up the little stone house.
A wedding ain't much cheerfuller than a funeral after all, when it's all over, Miss Shirley, ma'am." A busy evening followed.
The decorations had to be removed, the dishes washed, the uneaten delicacies packed into a basket for the delectation of Charlotta the Fourth's young brothers at home.
Anne would not rest until everything was in apple-pie order; after Charlotta had gone home with her plunder Anne went over the still rooms, feeling like one who trod alone some banquet hall deserted, and closed the blinds.
It was as if a veil that had hung before her inner consciousness had been lifted, giving to her view a revelation of unsuspected feelings and realities.
It was lonely but not forsaken.
It had not yet done with dreams and laughter and the joy of life; there were to be future summers for the little stone house; meanwhile, it could wait.
And over the river in purple durance the echoes bided their time.
Repetitive paged headers and trailing spaces are not present.
Economic considerations, however, have played second fiddle to political and military upheavals during more than 13 years of war, including the nearly 10-year Soviet military occupation (which ended 15 February 1989).
Over the past decade, one-third of the population fled the country, with Pakistan sheltering more than 3 million refugees and Iran about 1.3 million.
Another 1 million probably moved into and around urban areas within Afghanistan.
For over 40 years, the Stalinist-type economy has operated on the principle of central planning and state ownership of the means of production.
Following their overwhelming victory in the 22 March 1991 elections, the new Democratic government announced a program of shock therapy to stabilize the economy and establish a market economy.
In an effort to expand international ties, Tirane has reestablished diplomatic relations with the former Soviet Union and the US and has joined the IMF and World Bank.
Albania possesses considerable mineral resources and, until 1990, was largely self-sufficient in food; however, the breakup of cooperative farms in 1991 and general economic decline forced Albania to rely on foreign aid to maintain adequate supplies.
In 1973-74 the sharp increase in oil prices led to a booming economy and helped to finance an ambitious program of industrialization.
Plunging oil and gas prices, combined with the mismanagement of Algeria's highly centralized economy, has brought the nation to its most serious social and economic crisis since independence in 1988.
The tuna canneries and the government are by far the two largest employers.
An estimated 13 million tourists visit annually, attracted by Andorra's duty-free status and by its summer and winter resorts.
The National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA), led by Jonas SAVIMBI, has been in insurgency since 1975, but as a result of the peace accords is now a legally recognized political party.
Oil production is vital to the economy, contributing about 60% to GDP.
In recent years, a bitter internal war has severely affected the nonoil economy, and food has to be imported.
For the long run, Angola has the advantage of rich natural resources in addition to oil, notably gold, diamonds, and arable land.
During the period 1987-90, real GDP expanded at an annual average rate of about 6%.
Tourism makes a direct contribution to GDP of about 13% and also affects growth in other sectors - particularly in construction, communications, and public utilities.
Since 1978, Argentina's external debt has nearly doubled to $58 billion, creating severe debt servicing difficulties and hurting the country's creditworthiness with international lenders.
In turn, Armenia had depended on supplies of raw materials and energy from the other republics.
Most of these supplies enter the republic by rail through Azerbaijan (85%) and Georgia (15%).
The economy has been severely hurt by ethnic strife with Azerbaijan over control of the Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast, a mostly Armenian-populated enclave within the national boundaries of Azerbaijan.
In addition to outright warfare, the strife has included interdiction of Armenian imports on the Azerbaijani railroads and expensive airlifts of supplies to beleagured Armenians in Nagorno-Karabakh.
Among facilities made unserviceable by the earthquake are the Yerevan nuclear power plant, which had supplied 40% of Armenia's needs for electric power and a plant that produced one-quarter of the output of elevators in the former USSR.
Armenia has some deposits of nonferrous metal ores (bauxite, copper, zinc, and molybdenum) that are largely unexploited.
Hotel capacity expanded rapidly between 1985 and 1989 and nearly doubled in 1990 alone.
Unemployment has steadily declined from about 20% in 1986 to about 3% in 1991.
COOK; Chancery at 1601 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036; telephone (202) 797-3000; there are Australian Consulates General in Chicago, Honolulu, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, Pago Pago (American Samoa), and San Francisco US: Ambassador Melvin F.
Improved export prospects resulting from German unification and the opening of Eastern Europe, boosted the economy during 1990 and to a lesser extent in 1991.
GDP growth slowed from 4.9% in 1990 to 3% in 1991 - mainly due to the weaker world economy - and is expected to drop to around 2% in 1992.
Inflation is forecasted at about 4%, while unemployment probably will increase moderately through 1992 before declining in 1993.
Living standards are comparable with the large industrial countries of Western Europe.
It resembles the Central Asian states in its majority Muslim population, high structural unemployment, and low standard of living.
The economy's most prominent products are cotton, oil, and gas.
Production from the Caspian oil and gas field has been in decline for several years.
With foreign assistance, the oil industry might generate the funds needed to spur industrial development.
However, civil unrest, marked by armed conflict in the Nagorno-Karabakh region between Muslim Azeris and Christian Armenians, makes foreign investors wary.
Azerbaijan accounts for 1.5% to 2% of the capital stock and output of the former Soviet Union.
The economy has slackened in recent years, as the annual increase in the number of tourists slowed.
HOSTLER; Embassy at Road No. 3119 (next to Alahli Sports Club), Zinj; (mailing address is P.
Economic conditions have fluctuated with the changing fortunes of oil since 1985, for example, the Gulf crisis of 1990-91.
Bahrain with its highly developed communication and transport facilities is home to numerous multinational firms with business in the Gulf.
JALIL; Ganotantri Party, leader NA; Islami Oikya Jote, leader NA; National Democratic Party (NDP), leader NA; Muslim League, Khan A.
SHUSHKEVICH (since NA 1991) Head of Government: Prime Minister Vyacheslav F.
Belarus ranks fourth in gross output among the former Soviet republics, producing 4% of the total GDP and employing 4% of the labor force.
Belarus produces only small amounts of oil and gas and receives most of its fuel from Russia through the Druzhba oil pipeline and the Northern Lights gas pipeline.
These pipelines transit Belarus enroute to Eastern Europe.
Belarus produces petrochemicals, plastics, synthetic fibers (nearly 30% of former Soviet output), and fertilizer (20% of former Soviet output).
Raw material resources are limited to potash and peat deposits.
The peat (more than one-third of the total for the former Soviet Union) is used in domestic heating as boiler fuel for electric power stations and in the production of chemicals.
During the period 1988-90, Belgium's economic performance was marked by 4% average growth, moderate inflation, and a substantial external surplus.
HYDE; Chancery at 2535 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 332-9636 US: Ambassador Eugene L.
ISOM; Embassy at Rue Caporal Anani Bernard, Cotonou (mailing address is B.
Agriculture accounts for about 35% of GDP, employs about 60% of the labor force, and generates a major share of foreign exchange earnings.
The economy is closely aligned with that of India through strong trade and monetary links.
Low wages in industry lead most Bhutanese to stay in agriculture.
Most development projects, such as road construction, rely on Indian migrant labor.
BOWERS; Embassy at Banco Popular del Peru Building, corner of Calles Mercado y Colon, La Paz (mailing address is P.
An austere orthodox economic program adopted by then President Paz Estenssoro in 1985, however, succeeded in reducing inflation to between 10% and 20% annually since 1987, eventually restarting economic growth.
Since August 1989, President Paz Zamora has retained the economic policies of the previous government, keeping inflation down and continuing moderate growth.
Although agriculture has been almost all in private hands, farms have been small and inefficient, and the republic traditionally has been a net importer of food.
Industry has been greatly overstaffed, one reflection of the rigidities of Communist central planning and management.
Tito had pushed the development of military industries in the republic with the result that Bosnia hosted a large share of Yugoslavia's defense plants.
As of April 1992, the newly independent republic was being torn apart by bitter interethnic warfare that has caused production to plummet, unemployment and inflation to soar, and human misery to multiply.
The survival of the republic as a political and economic unit is in doubt.
Both Serbia and Croatia have imposed various economic blockades and may permanently take over large areas populated by fellow ethnic groups. These areas contain most of the industry.
If a much smaller core Muslim state survives, it will share many Third World problems of poverty, technological backwardness, and dependence on historically soft foreign markets for its primary products.
The driving force behind the rapid economic growth of the 1970s and 1980s has been the mining industry. This sector, mostly on the strength of diamonds, has gone from generating 25% of GDP in 1980 to over 50% in 1989.
Ownership of major industrial and mining facilities is divided among private interests - including several multinationals - and the government.
Conflicts between large landholders and landless peasants have produced intermittent violence.
Construction projects and various services needed to support the military installations are done by military and contract employees from the UK and the US.
A. PENFOLD (since NA 1991) Head of Government: Chief Minister H.
Lavity STOUTT (since NA 1986) Political parties and leaders: United Party (UP), Conrad MADURO; Virgin Islands Party (VIP), H.
Lavity STOUTT; Independent Progressive Movement (IPM), Cyril B.
Bulgaria's new government, led by Prime Minister Filip Dimitrov, is strongly committed to economic reform.
The previous government, even though dominated by former Communists, had taken the first steps toward dismantling the central planning system, bringing the economy back into balance, and reducing inflationary pressures.
The program produced some encouraging early results, including eased restrictions on foreign investment, increased support from international financial institutions, and liberalized currency trading. Small entrepreneurs have begun to emerge and some privatization of small enterprises has taken place.
The government has passed bills to privatize large state-owned enterprises and reform the banking system.
BYRNN; Embassy at Avenue Raoul Follerau, Ouagadougou (mailing address is 01 B.
The economy is heavily dependent on the agricultural sector, which generates about 40% of GDP and provides employment for 65% of the work force.
The ability to pay for imports therefore continues to rest largely on the vagaries of the climate and the international coffee market.
As part of its economic reform agenda, launched in February 1991 with IMF and World Bank support, Burundi is trying to diversify its export agriculture capability and attract foreign investment in industry.
The food situation remains precarious; during the 1980s famine was averted only through international relief.
Industry, other than rice processing, is almost nonexistent. Foreign trade has been primarily with the former USSR and Vietnam, and both trade and foreign aid are being adversely affected by the breakup of the USSR.
Still, it faces many of the serious problems facing other underdeveloped countries, such as political instability, a top-heavy civil service, and a generally unfavorable climate for business enterprise.
The development of the oil sector led rapid economic growth between 1970 and 1985.
Growth came to an abrupt halt in 1986 precipitated by steep declines in the prices of major exports: coffee, cocoa, and petroleum.
Export earnings were cut by almost one-third, and inefficiencies in fiscal management were exposed.
In 1990-92, with support from the IMF and World Bank, the government has begun to introduce reforms designed to spur business investment, increase efficiency in agriculture, and recapitalize the nation's banks.
In the 1980s, Canada registered one of the highest rates of real growth among the OECD nations, averaging about 3.2%.
Cape Verde annually runs a high trade deficit, financed by remittances from emigrants and foreign aid.
The country's 1991 budget deficit was US $70 million and in 1992 is expected to be about the same.
Important constraints to economic development include the CAR's landlocked position, a poor transportation system, and a weak human resource base.
Oil companies are exploring areas north of Lake Chad and in the Doba basin in the south.
In 1991 growth in GDP recovered to 5.5% (led by consumer spending) after only 2.1% growth in 1990. The tight monetary policy of 1990 helped cut the rate of inflation from 27.3% in 1990 to 18.7% in 1991.
Industry also has posted major gains, especially in coastal areas near Hong Kong and opposite Taiwan, where foreign investment and modern production methods have helped spur production of both domestic and export goods.
Aggregate output has more than doubled since 1978.
On the darker side, the leadership has often experienced in its hybrid system the worst results of socialism (bureaucracy, lassitude, corruption) and of capitalism (windfall gains and stepped-up inflation).
Beijing thus has periodically backtracked, retightening central controls at intervals and thereby lessening the credibility of the reform process.
In 1991 output rose substantially, particularly in the favored coastal areas.
BUSBY; Embassy at Calle 38, No. 8-61, Bogota (mailing address is P.
The rapid development of oil, coal, and other nontraditional industries over the past four years has helped to offset the decline in coffee prices - Colombia's major export.
The collapse of the International Coffee Agreement in the summer of 1989, a troublesome rural insurgency, and drug-related violence have dampened growth, but significant economic reforms are likely to facilitate a resurgent economy in the medium term.
Agriculture, including fishing, hunting, and forestry, is the leading sector of the economy.
It contributes about 34% to GDP, employs 80% of the labor force, and provides most of the exports.
The country is not self-sufficient in food production, and rice, the main staple, accounts for 90% of imports.
A sluggish growth rate of 1.5% during 1985-90 has led to large budget deficits, declining incomes, and balance-of-payments difficulties.
A reform program, supported by the IMF and World Bank, ran into difficulties in 1990-91 because of problems in changing to a democratic political regime and a heavy debt-servicing burden.
Oil has supplanted forestry as the mainstay of the economy, providing about two-thirds of government revenues and exports.
Increases in agricultural production (on the strength of good coffee and banana crops) and in construction have been offset by lower rates of growth for industry. In 1991 consumer prices rose by 27%, about the same as in 1990.
The trade deficit of $270 million was substantially below the 1990 deficit of $677 million.
Unemployment is officially reported at 4.6%, but much underemployment remains.
Serbia and the Serb-dominated army of the old Yugoslavia, however, have seized Croatian territory, and the overriding determinant of Croatia's long-term economic prospects will be the final border settlement.
Under the most favorable circumstances, Croatia will retain the Dalmatian coast with its major tourist attractions and Slavonia with its oilfields and rich agricultural land.
At the minimum, extensive Western aid and investment, especially in the tourist and oil industries, would seem necessary to salvage a desperate economic situation.
Sugar provided about two-thirds of export revenues in 1991, and over half was exported to the former Soviet republics.
In 1990 the economy probably fell 5% largely as a result of declining trade with the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
The government currently is encouraging foreign investment in tourist facilities and in industrial plants idled by falling imports from the former Soviet Union.
The former Soviet republics have indicated they will no longer extend aid to Cuba beginning in 1992.
Instead of highly subsidized trade, Cuba has been shifting to trade at market prices in convertible currencies.
SHERIFIS; Chancery at 2211 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 462-5772 US: Ambassador Robert E.
Industry contributes 24% to GDP and employs 35% of the labor force, while the service sector contributes 44% to GDP and employs 45% of the labor force.
Rapid growth in exports of agricultural and manufactured products and in tourism have played important roles in the average 6.4% rise in GDP between 1985 and 1990.
In mid-1991, the World Bank "graduated" Cyprus off its list of developing countries.
In contrast to the bright picture in the south, the Turkish Cypriot economy has less than half the per capita GDP and suffered a series of reverses in 1991.
GDP per capita has been the highest in Eastern Europe.
Annual GDP growth slowed to less than 1 percent during the 1985-90 period.
The country is deficient in energy and in many raw materials.
Moreover, its aging capital plant lags well behind West European standards.
In January 1991, Prague launched a sweeping program to convert its almost entirely state-owned and controlled economy to a market system. The koruna now enjoys almost full internal convertibility and over 90% of prices are set by the market.
The government is planning to privatize all small businesses and roughly two-thirds of large enterprises by the end of 1993.
New private-sector activity is also expanding.
Agriculture - 95% socialized - is to be privatized by the end of 1992.
Reform has taken its toll on the economy: inflation was roughly 50% in 1991, unemployment was nearly 70%, and GDP dropped an estimated 15%.
In 1992 the government is anticipating inflation of 10-15%, unemployment of 11-12%, and a drop in GDP of up to 8%.
Denmark probably will continue its successful economic recovery in 1992 with tight fiscal and monetary policies and export- oriented growth.
Prime Minister Schluter's main priorities are to maintain a current account surplus in order to pay off extensive external debt and to continue to freeze public-sector expenditures in order to reduce the budget deficit.
The rate of growth by 1993 - boosted by increased investment and domestic demand - may be sufficient to start to cut Denmark's high unemployment rate, which is expected to remain at about 11% in 1992.
BAQUET III; Embassy at Villa Plateau du Serpent, Boulevard Marechal Joffre, Djibouti (mailing address is B.
An unemployment rate of over 30% continues to be a major problem.
In 1990, GDP grew by 7%, bouncing back from the 1.6% decline of 1989.
Over the past decade, tourism has also increased in importance and is a major earner of foreign exchange and a source of new jobs.
Growth has been uneven because of natural disasters (for example, a major earthquake in 1987), fluctuations in global oil prices, and government policies designed to curb inflation.
The government has not taken a supportive attitude toward either domestic or foreign investment, although its agreement to enter the Andean free trade zone is an encouraging move.
The reforms have been slow in coming, however, and the economy has been largely stagnant for the past four years.
Coffee is the major commercial crop, accounting for 45% of export earnings.
Economic losses because of guerrilla sabotage total more than $2 billion since 1979.
The costs of maintaining a large military seriously constrain the government's efforts to provide essential social services.
BENNETT; Embassy at Calle de Los Ministros, Malabo (mailing address is P.O.
Subsistence agriculture predominates, with cocoa, coffee, and wood products providing income, foreign exchange, and government revenues.
Commerce accounts for about 8% of GDP and the construction, public works, and service sectors for about 38%.
Agriculture is well developed, especially meat production, and provides a surplus for export.
Only about one-fifth of the work force is in agriculture.
The major share of the work force engages in manufacturing both capital and consumer goods based on raw materials and intermediate products from the other former Soviet republics.
These manufactures are of high quality by ex-Soviet standards and are exported to the other republics. Estonia's mineral resources are limited to major deposits of shale oil (60% of old Soviet total) and phosphorites (400 million tons).
Estonia has a large, relatively modern port and produces more than half of its own energy needs at highly polluting shale oil power plants.
Like the other 14 successor republics, Estonia is suffering through a difficult transitional period - between a collapsed command economic structure and a still-to-be-built market structure.
BAAS; Embassy at Entoto Street, Addis Ababa (mailing address is P.
Over 90% of large-scale industry, but less than 10% of agriculture, is state run; the government is considering selling off a portion of state-owned plants.
Favorable agricultural weather largely explains the 4.5% growth in output in FY89, whereas drought and deteriorating internal security conditions prevented growth in FY90.
Exports feature shipments of high-grade wool to the UK and the sale of postage stamps and coins.
Rich stocks of fish in the surrounding waters are not presently exploited by the islanders.
So far, efforts to establish a domestic fishing industry have been unsuccessful.
When the nations of the world extended their fishing zones to 200 nautical miles in the early 1970s, the Faroese no longer could continue their traditional long-distance fishing and subsequently depleted their own nearby fishing areas.
The government's tight controls on fish stocks and its austerity measures have caused a recession, and subsidy cuts will force further reductions in the fishing industry, which has already been plagued with bankrupcies.
Gen. Sitiveni RABUKA on 25 September 1987, Ratu Sir Kamisese MARA was reappointed as prime minister Political parties and leaders: Fijian Political Party (primarily Fijian), leader Maj.
Industry, including sugar milling, contributes 13% to GDP.
Its main economic force is the manufacturing sector - principally the wood, metals, and engineering industries.
Except for timber and several minerals, Finland depends on imported raw materials, energy, and some components of manufactured goods. Because of the climate, agricultural development is limited to maintaining self-sufficiency in basic commodities.
The economy, which experienced an average of 4.9% annual growth between 1987 and 1989, sank into a deep recession in 1991 as growth contracted by 6.2%.
The Finnish Government has proposed efforts to increase industrial competitiveness and efficiency by an increase in exports to Western markets, cuts in public expenditures, partial privatization of state enterprises, and foreign investment and exchange liberalization.
Helsinki tied the markkaa to the EC's European Currency Unit to promote stability but was forced to devalue the markkaa by about 12% in November 1991.
The devaluation should improve industrial competitiveness and business confidence in 1992.
Finland, as a member of EFTA, negotiated a European Economic Area arrangement with the EC that allows for free movement of capital, goods, services, and labor within the organization as of January 1993.
After expanding at a rapid 3.8% pace during the period 1988-89, the economy slowed down in 1990, with growth of 1.5% in 1990 and 1.4% in 1991; growth in 1992 is expected to be about 2%.
The economy has had difficulty generating enough jobs for new entrants into the labor force, resulting in a high unemployment rate, which rose to almost 10% in 1991.
Cultivation of crops - rice, cassava, bananas, and sugarcane - are limited to the coastal area, where the population is largely concentrated.
4000, Libreville); telephone (241) 762003/4, or 743492 Flag: three equal horizontal bands of green (top), yellow, and blue :Gabon Economy Overview: The economy, dependent on timber and manganese until the early 1970s, is now dominated by the oil sector.
During the period 1981-85, oil accounted for about 46% of GDP, 83% of export earnings, and 65% of government revenues on average.
In 1990 the economy posted strong growth despite serious strikes, but debt servicing problems are hindering economic advancement.
SALLAH; Chancery at Suite 720, 1030 15th Street NW, Washington, DC 20005; telephone (202) 842-1356 or 842-1359 US: Ambassador Arlene RENDER; Embassy at Pipeline Road (Kairaba Avenue), Fajara, Banjul (mailing address is P.
About 75% of the population is engaged in crop production and livestock raising, which contribute 30% to GDP. Small-scale manufacturing activity - processing peanuts, fish, and hides - accounts for less than 10% of GDP.
In the US view, the term West Bank describes all of the area west of the Jordan River under Jordanian administration before the 1967 Arab-Israeli war.
The construction, agricultural, and industrial sectors account for about 15%, 12%, and 8% of GNP, respectively.
Gaza depends upon Israel for some 90% of its external trade.
Unrest in the territory in 1988-92 (intifadah) has raised unemployment and substantially lowered the standard of living of Gazans.
The Persian Gulf crisis and its aftershocks also have dealt severe blows to Gaza since August 1990.
Worker remittances from the Gulf states have plunged, unemployment has increased, and exports have fallen dramatically.
Another salient characteristic of the economy has been a flourishing private sector (compared with the other republics).
Almost 30% of the labor force is employed in agriculture and 18% in industry.
Mineral resources consist of manganese and copper, and, to a lesser extent, molybdenum, arsenic, tungsten, and mercury.
Except for very small quantities of domestic oil, gas, and coal, fuel must be imported from neighboring republics.
Oil and its products are delivered by pipeline from Azerbaijan to the port of Batumi for export and local refining.
Gas is supplied in pipelines from Krasnodar and Stavropol'.
Georgia is nearly self-sufficient in electric power, thanks to abundant hydropower stations as well as some thermal power stations.
While western Germany's economy was in recession in the last half of 1991, eastern Germany's economy bottomed out after a nearly two-year freefall and shows signs of recovery, particularly in the construction, transportation, and service sectors.
Eastern Germany could begin a fragile recovery later, concentrated in 1992 in construction, transportation, and services.
The two regions remain vastly different, however, despite eastern Germany's progress.
Western Germany has an advanced market economy and is a world leader in exports.
It has a highly urbanized and skilled population that enjoys excellent living standards, abundant leisure time, and comprehensive social welfare benefits.
The region's economy is mature: services and manufacturing account for the dominant share of economic activity, and raw materials and semimanufactured goods constitute a large portion of imports.
In recent years, manufacturing has accounted for about 31% of GDP, with other sectors contributing lesser amounts.
Gross fixed investment in 1990 accounted for about 21% of GDP.
In 1991, GDP in the western region was an estimated $19,200 per capita.
In contrast, eastern Germany's economy is shedding the obsolete heavy industries that dominated the economy during the Communist era.
Eastern Germany's share of all-German GDP is only about 7%, and eastern productivity is just 30% that of the west.
The privatization agency for eastern Germany, the Treuhand, is rapidly selling many of the 11,500 firms under its control.
The quality of statistics from eastern Germany is improving, yet many gaps remain; the federal government began producing all-German data for select economic statistics at the start of 1992.
The biggest danger is that excessive wage settlements and heavy federal borrowing could fuel inflation and prompt the German Central Bank, the Bundesbank, to keep a tight monetary policy to choke off a wage-price spiral.
Heavily dependent on cocoa, gold, and timber exports, economic growth so far has not spread substantially to other areas of the economy.
The costs of sending peacekeeping forces to Liberia and preparing for the transition to a democratic government have been boosting government expenditures and undercutting structural adjustment reforms.
Ghana opened a stock exchange in 1990.
Tourism continues as a major industry, and agriculture - although handicapped by geographic limitations and fragmented, small farms - is self-sufficient except for meat, dairy products, and animal feedstuffs.
The Mitsotakis government inherited several severe economic problems from the preceding socialist and caretaker administrations, which had neglected the runaway budget deficit, a ballooning current account deficit, and accelerating inflation.
In 1990, the economy became critically dependent on shrimp exports and on an annual subsidy (now about $500 million) from the Danish Government because cod exports dropped off and commercial mineral production stopped.
As of 1992, the government also has taken control of the health sector from Denmark.
Tourism is the leading foreign exchange earner, followed by agricultural exports. Manufacturing remains relatively undeveloped, but is expected to grow, given a more favorable private investment climate since 1983.
Light industry consists mostly of sugar and rum production. Most manufactured goods and fuel are imported.
The small manufacturing sector includes textiles and clothing, beverage, food, and watch production.
About 60% of the labor force works for the private sector and the rest for government. Most food and industrial goods are imported, with about 75% from the US.
Manufacturing, predominantly in private hands, accounts for about 18% of GDP and 12% of the labor force.
In both 1990 and 1991, the economy grew by 3%, the fourth and fifth consecutive years of mild growth.
Agriculture and fishing are the main economic activities.
Cashew nuts, peanuts, and palm kernels are the primary exports. Exploitation of known mineral deposits is unlikely at present because of a weak infrastructure and the high cost of development.
After growing on average at less than 1% a year in 1986-87, GDP dropped by 5% a year in 1988-90.
Consumer prices rose about 100% in 1989 and 75% in 1990, and the current account deficit widened substantially as sugar and bauxite exports fell.
The government's stabilization program - aimed at establishing realistic exchange rates, reasonable price stability, and a resumption of growth - requires considerable public administrative abilities and continued patience by consumers during a long incubation period.
In 1991, buoyed by a recovery in mining and agriculture, the economy posted 6% growth, according to official figures.
Agriculture is mainly small-scale subsistence farming and employs nearly three-fourths of the work force.
Few social assistance programs exist, and the lack of employment opportunities remains one of the most critical problems facing the economy, along with soil erosion and political instability.
Unemployment, which has been declining since the mid-1980s, is now about 2%.
A shortage of labor continues to put upward pressure on prices and the cost of living. Short-term prospects remain solid so long as major trading partners continue to be reasonably prosperous.
Agriculture is an important sector, providing sizable export earnings and meeting domestic food needs.
Industry accounts for about 40% of GDP and 30% of employment.
Hungary claims that less than 20% of foreign trade is now with former CEMA countries, while about 70% is with OECD members.
The growing private sector accounts for one-quarter to one-third of national output according to unofficial estimates.
Privatization of state enterprises is progressing, although excessive redtape, bureaucratic oversight, and uncertainties about pricing have slowed the process.
TOMASSON; Chancery at 2022 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 265-6653 through 6655; there is an Icelandic Consulate General in New York US: Ambassador Charles E.
The economic improvements resulting from climbing fish prices in 1990 and a noninflationary labor agreement probably will be reversed by tighter fish quotas and a delay in the construction of an aluminum smelting plant.
The conservative government's economic priorities include reducing the budget and current account deficits, containing inflation, revising agricultural and fishing policies, diversifying the economy, and tying the krona to the EC's European currency unit in 1993.
The fishing industries - notably the shrimp industry - are experiencing a series of bankruptcies and mergers.
Inflation has continued to drop sharply from 20% in 1989 to about 7.5% in 1991 and possibly 3% in 1992, while unemployment is expected to increase to 2.5%.
Narasimha RAO (since 21 June 1991) Political parties and leaders: Congress (I) Party, P.
SINGH; Communist Party of India/Marxist (CPI/M), Harkishan Singh SURJEET; Communist Party of India (CPI), C.
Growth of 4-5% annually in the 1980s has softened the impact of population growth on unemployment, social tranquility, and the environment.
However, tens of millions of villagers, particularly in the south, have not benefited from the green revolution and live in abject poverty, and great numbers of urban residents lack the basic essentials of life.
Fishing fleets from Russia, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan also exploit the Indian Ocean, mainly for shrimp and tuna.
GDP growth in 1985-91 averaged about 6%, quite impressive, but not sufficient to both slash underemployment and absorb the 2.3 million workers annually entering the labor force.
Agriculture, including forestry and fishing, is an important sector, accounting for 23% of GDP and over 50% of the labor force.
Plantation crops - rubber and palm oil - and textiles and plywood are being encouraged for both export and job generation.
Industrial output now accounts for 30% of GDP and is based on a supply of diverse natural resources, including crude oil, natural gas, timber, metals, and coal.
However, the economy's growth is highly dependent on the continuing expansion of nonoil exports.
Japan is Indonesia's most important customer and supplier of aid.
In 1991, rapid growth in the money supply prompted Jakarta to implement a tight monetary policy, forcing the private sector to go to foreign banks for investment financing.
After a decade of economic decline, Iran's GNP grew roughly 4% in FY90 and 10% in FY91.
An oil windfall in 1990 combined with a substantial increase in imports contributed to Iran's recent economic growth.
Iran has also begun implementing a number of economic reforms to reduce government intervention (including subsidies) and has allocated substantial resources to development projects in the hope of stimulating the economy.
Oil exports were cut to near zero, and industrial and transportation facilities were severely damaged.
Throughout 1991, the UN's economic embargo worked to reduce exports and imports and to increase prices for most goods.
Agriculture, once the most important sector, is now dwarfed by industry, which accounts for 37% of GDP and about 80% of exports and employs 26% of the labor force.
The government has successfully reduced the rate of inflation from double-digit figures in the late 1970s to 3.8% in 1991.
Unemployment, however, remains a serious problem.
It depends on imports of crude oil, grains, raw materials, and military equipment.
Despite limited natural resources, Israel has intensively developed its agricultural and industrial sectors over the past 20 years. Industry employs about 20% of Israeli workers, agriculture 5%, and services most of the rest.
Diamonds, high-technology equipment, and agricultural products (fruits and vegetables) are leading exports.
Israel usually posts balance-of-payments deficits, which are covered by large transfer payments from abroad and by foreign loans.
Roughly half of the government's $17 billion external debt is owed to the United States, which is its major source of economic and military aid.
To earn needed foreign exchange, Israel has been targeting high-technology niches in international markets, such as medical scanning equipment.
Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in August 1990 dealt a blow to Israel's economy.
Higher world oil prices added an estimated $300 million to the oil import bill that year and helped keep annual inflation at 18%.
Regional tension and the continuing Palestinian uprising (intifadah) have contributed to a sharp drop in tourism - a key foreign exchange earner - to the lowest level since the 1973 Arab-Israeli war.
The country is still divided into a developed industrial north, dominated by small private companies, and an undeveloped agricultural south, dominated by large public enterprises. Services account for 48% of GDP, industry about 35%, agriculture 4%, and public administration 13%.
After growing at an annual average rate of 3% during the period 1983-90, growth slowed to about 1% in 1991.
A collapse of world cocoa and coffee prices in 1986 threw the economy into a recession, from which the country had not recovered by 1990.
Patterson (since 30 March 1992) Political parties and leaders: People's National Party (PNP) P.
In 1985 it suffered a setback with the closure of some facilities in the bauxite and alumina industry, a major source of hard currency earnings.
By October 1989 the economic recovery from the hurricane was largely complete, and real growth was up about 3% for 1989.
A major contributor to overall growth of 4.5% in 1991 was net exports, which cushioned the effect of slower growth in domestic demand.
Inflation remains low at 3.3% and is easing due to lower oil prices and a stronger yen.
The Camp David accords also specify that these negotiations will resolve the location of the respective boundaries.
HAMMAMI; Chancery at 3504 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 966-2664 US: Ambassador Roger Gram HARRISON; Embassy on Jebel Amman, Amman (mailing address is P.
In mid-1989, the Jordanian Government began debt-rescheduling negotiations and agreed to implement an IMF program designed to gradually reduce the budget deficit and implement badly needed structural reforms.
The Persian Gulf crisis that began in August 1990, however, aggravated Jordan's already serious economic problems, forcing the government to shelve the IMF program, stop most debt payments, and suspend rescheduling negotiations.
Aid from Gulf Arab states and worker remittances have plunged, and refugees have flooded the country, straining government resources.
Kazakhstan is highly dependent on trade with Russia, exchanging its natural resources for finished consumer and industrial goods.
Kazakhstan now finds itself with serious pollution problems, backward technology, and little experience in foreign markets.
The government in 1991 pushed privatization of the economy at a faster pace than Russia's program.
US firms have been enlisted to increase oil output but face formidable obstacles; for example, oil can now reach Western markets only through pipelines that run across independent (and sometimes unfriendly) former Soviet republics.
Finally, the end of monolithic Communist control has brought ethnic grievances into the open.
The 6 million Russians in the republic, formerly the favored class, now face the hostility of a society dominated by Muslims.
In the meantime, GDP growth in the near term has kept slightly ahead of population - annually averaging 4.9% in the 1986-90 period.
Undependable weather conditions and a shortage of arable land hamper long-term growth in agriculture, the leading economic sector.
Economic growth during the period 1984-89 averaged 2-3%, but output declined by 2-4% annually during 1990-91, largely because of disruptions in economic relations with the USSR.
Output of the extractive industries includes coal, iron ore, magnesite, graphite, copper, zinc, lead, and precious metals. Manufacturing is centered on heavy industry, with light industry lagging far behind.
Despite the use of improved seed varieties, expansion of irrigation, and the heavy use of fertilizers, North Korea has not yet become self-sufficient in food production.
Real GNP has increased more than 10% annually over the past six years.
This growth has led to an overheated situation characterized by a tight labor market, strong inflationary pressures, and a rapidly rising current account deficit.
Policymakers have stated they will focus attention on slowing inflation.
Earnings from hydrocarbons have generated over 90% of both export and government revenues and contributed about 40% to GDP.
Most of the nonoil sector has traditionally been dependent upon oil-derived government revenues.
Iraq's destruction of Kuwait's oil industry during the Gulf war has devastated the economy.
Iraq destroyed or damaged more than 80% of Kuwait's 950 operating oil wells, as well as sabotaged key surface facilities.
Firefighters brought all of the roughly 750 oil well fires and blowouts under control by November 1991.
By yearend, production had been brought back to 400,000 barrels per day; it could take two to three years to restore Kuwait's oil production to its prewar level of about 2.0 million barrels per day.
Industry, concentrated around Bishkek, produces small quantities of electric motors, livestock feeding equipment, washing machines, furniture, cement, paper, and bricks.
Mineral extraction is small, the most important minerals being rare earth metals and gold.
Kyrgyzstan is a net importer of most types of food and fuel but is a net exporter of electricity.
By early 1991, the Kirghiz leadership had accelerated reform, primarily by privatizing business and granting life-long tenure to farmers.
In recent years, however, the government has been decentralizing control and encouraging private enterprise.
Prices have been freed, and privatization of shops and farms has begun.
Latvia lacks natural resources, aside from its arable land and small forests.
Its most valuable economic asset is its work force, which is better educated and disciplined than in most of the former Soviet republics.
Industrial production is highly diversified, with products ranging from agricultural machinery to consumer electronics.
One conspicuous vulnerability: Latvia produces only 10% of its electric power needs.
Latvia in the near term must retain key commercial ties to Russia, Belarus, and Ukraine while moving in the long run toward joint ventures, technological support, and trade ties to the West.
Because of the efficiency of its mostly individual farms, Latvians enjoy a diet that is higher in meat, vegetables, and dairy products and lower in grain and potatoes than diets in the 12 non-Baltic republics of the USSR.
Within days of the departure of the MNF, Lebanon's newly elected president, Bashir Gemayel, was assassinated; his elder brother Amin was elected to succeed him.
In the immediate wake of Bashir's death, however, Christian militiamen massacred hundreds of Palestinian refugees in two Beirut camps.
In late March 1984 the last MNF units withdrew.
In 1988, President Gemayel completed his term of office.
Because parliamentarians failed to elect a presidential successor, Gemayel appointed then Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) Commander Gen. Michel Awn acting president.
Lebanese parliamentarians met in Ta'if, Saudi Arabia, in late 1989 and concluded a national reconciliation pact that codified a new power-sharing formula, specifying reduced powers for the Christian president and giving Muslims more authority.
Rene MUAWAD was subsequently elected president on 4 November 1989, ending a 13-month period during which Lebanon had no president and rival Muslim and Christian governments.
MUAWAD was assassinated 17 days later, on 22 November; on 24 November, Ilyas Harawi was elected to succeed MUAWAD.
In October 1990, the civil war was apparently brought to a conclusion when Syrian and Lebanese forces ousted renegade Christian General Awn from his stronghold in East Beirut.
Awn was granted amnesty and allowed to travel in France in August 199l.
Since the removal of Awn, the Lebanese Government has made substantial progress in strengthening the central government, rebuilding government institutions, and extending its authority throughout the nation.
The LAF has deployed from Beirut north along the coast road to Tripoli, southeast into the Shuf mountains, and south to Sidon and Tyre.
Many militiamen from Christian and Muslim groups have evacuated Beirut for their strongholds in the north, south, and east of the country.
Some heavy weapons possessed by the militias have been turned over to the government, or sold outside the country, which has begun a plan to integrate some militiamen into the military and the internal security forces.
Lebanon and Syria signed a treaty of friendship and cooperation in May 1991.
Lebanon continues to be partially occupied by Syrian troops, which are deployed in Beirut, its southern suburbs, the Bekaa Valley, and northern Lebanon.
Iran also maintains a small contingent of revolutionary guards in the Bekaa Valley to support Lebanese Islamic fundamentalist groups.
Israel withdrew the bulk of its forces from the south in 1985, although it still retains troops in a 10-km-deep security zone north of its border with Lebanon.
Israel arms and trains the Army of South Lebanon (ASL), which also occupies the security zone and is Israel's first line of defense against attacks on its northern border.
Following October 1990, however, a tentative peace has enabled the central government to begin restoring control in Beirut, collect taxes, and regain access to key port and government facilities.
Family remittances, banking transactions, manufactured and farm exports, the narcotics trade, and international emergency aid are main sources of foreign exchange.
In the relatively settled year of 1991, industrial production, agricultural output, and exports showed substantial gains.
Gen. LEKHANYA) Head of Government: Chairman of the Military Council Col. Elias Phisoana RAMAEMA (since 30 April 1991) Political parties and leaders: Basotho National Party (BNP), Evaristus SEKHONYANA; Basutoland Congress Party (BCP), Ntsu MOKHEHLE; National Independent Party (NIP), A.
MANYELI; Marematlou Freedom Party (MFP), Bernard M.
KHAKETLA; United Democratic Party, Charles MOFELI; Communist Party of Lesotho (CPL), J.
SPEARMAN, Sr.; Embassy at address NA, Maseru (mailing address is P.
The great majority of households gain their livelihoods from subsistence farming and migrant labor.
Manufacturing depends largely on farm products to support the milling, canning, leather, and jute industries; other industries include textile, clothing, and light engineering. Industry's share of GDP rose from 6% in 1982 to 15% in 1989.
JOHNSON and Charles TAYLOR are challenging the SAWYER government's legitimacy while observing a tenuous cease-fire; the former president, Gen. Dr. Samuel Kanyon DOE, was killed on 9 September 1990 by Prince Y.
Expatriate businessmen fled the country, taking capital and expertise with them.
Many will not return. Richly endowed with water, mineral resources, forests, and a climate favorable to agriculture, Liberia had been a producer and exporter of basic products, while local manufacturing, mainly foreign owned, had been small in scope.
Political instability threatens prospects for economic reconstruction and repatriation of some 750,000 Liberian refugees who fled to neighboring countries.
In 1988 per capita GDP was the highest in Africa at $5,410, but GDP growth rates have slowed and fluctuate sharply in response to changes in the world oil market.
Windfall revenues from the hike in world oil prices in late 1990 improved the foreign payments position and resulted in a current account surplus for the first time in five years.
The nonoil manufacturing and construction sectors, which account for about 22% of GDP, have expanded from processing mostly agricultural products to include petrochemicals, iron, steel, and aluminum.
Although agriculture accounts for about 5% of GDP, it employs about 20% of the labor force.
Industry accounts for 53% of total employment, the service sector 45% (mostly based on tourism), and agriculture and forestry 2%.
Although substantially above average in living standards and technology in the old USSR, Lithuania historically lagged behind Latvia and Estonia in economic development.
It is ahead of its Baltic neighbors, however, in implementing market reform.
The country has no important natural resources aside from its arable land and strategic location.
Industry depends entirely on imported materials that have come from the republics of the former USSR.
Lithuania benefits from its ice-free port at Klaipeda on the Baltic Sea and its rail and highway hub at Vilnius, which provides land communication between Eastern Europe and Russia, Latvia, Estonia, and Belarus.
Industry produces a small assortment of high-quality products, ranging from complex machine tools to sophisticated consumer electronics.
Thanks to nuclear power, Lithuania is presently self-sufficient in electricity, exporting its surplus to Latvia and Belarus; the nuclear facilities inherited from the USSR, however, have come under world scrutiny as seriously deficient in safety standards.
Agriculture is efficient compared with most of the former Soviet Union.
Lithuania holds first place in per capita consumption of meat, second place for eggs and potatoes, and fourth place for milk and dairy products. Grain must be imported to support the meat and dairy industries.
As to economic reforms, Lithuania is pressing ahead with plans to privatize at least 60% of state-owned property (industry, agriculture, and housing) having already sold many small enterprises using a voucher system.
Other government priorities include stimulating foreign investment by protecting the property rights of foreign firms and redirecting foreign trade away from Eastern markets to the more competitive Western markets.
Efforts to diversify have spawned other small industries - toys, artificial flowers, and electronics.
The tourist sector has accounted for roughly 25% of GDP, and the clothing industry has provided about two-thirds of export earnings; the gambling industry represented 36% of GDP in 1991.
As a breakaway republic, however, it will move down toward a bare subsistence level of life unless economic ties are reforged or enlarged with its neighbors Serbia, Albania, Greece, and Bulgaria.
The economy depends on outside sources for all of its oil and gas and its modern machinery and parts.
Continued political turmoil, both internally and in the region as a whole, prevents any swift readjustments of trade patterns and economic rules of the game.
Inflation in early 1992 was out of control, the result of fracturing trade links, the decline in economic activity, and general uncertainties about the future status of the country; prices rose 38% in March 1992 alone.
Macedonia's geographical isolation, technological backwardness, and political instability place it far down the list of countries of interest to Western investors.
In its place, an interim High Authority of State and a Social and Economic Recovery Council have been established Judicial branch: Supreme Court (Cour Supreme), High Constitutional Court (Haute Cour Constitutionnelle) Leaders: Chief of State: President Adm.
Industry is largely confined to the processing of agricultural products and textile manufacturing; in 1990 it accounted for only 16% of GDP and employed almost 5% of the labor force.
In 1986 the government introduced a five-year development plan that stressed self-sufficiency in food (mainly rice) by 1990, increased production for exports, and reduced energy imports.
MBAYA; Chancery at 2408 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 797-1007 US: Ambassador Michael T.
PISTOR; Embassy in new capital city development area, address NA (mailing address is P.
The economy is predominately agricultural, with about 90% of the population living in rural areas.
After two years of weak performance, economic growth improved significantly in 1988-91 as a result of good weather and a broadly based economic adjustment effort by the government.
Inflation has remained low; unemployment has stood at 6% of the labor force; and the government has followed prudent fiscal/monetary policies.
The country is not self-sufficient in food, and some of the rural population subsist at the poverty level.
Agriculture is limited to the production of a few subsistence crops that provide only 10% of food requirements.
In 1990 inflation was held to a low 3.0%.
KENDALL; Chancery at 2433 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 234-5414 US: Ambassador William BODDE, Jr.; Embassy at NA address (mailing address is P. O.
Agricultural production is concentrated on small farms, and the most important commercial crops are coconuts, tomatoes, melons, and breadfruit.
BROWN; Embassy at address NA, Nouakchott (mailing address is B.
In recent years, the droughts, the endemic conflict with Senegal, rising energy costs, and economic mismanagement have resulted in a substantial buildup of foreign debt.
The government has begun the second stage of an economic reform program in consultation with the World Bank, the IMF, and major donor countries.
But the reform process suffered a major setback following the Gulf war of early 1991.
MAREHALAU; Embassy at 1725 N St., NW, Washington, DC 20036; telephone (202) 223-4383 US: Ambassador Aurelia BRAZEAL; Embassy at address NA, Kolonia (mailing address is P.
CHIOBATARU, leader; The Ecology Movement of Moldova (EMM), G.
MALARCHUK, chairman; The Christian Democratic League of Women of Moldova (CDLWM), L.
LARI, chairman; National Christian Party of Moldova (NCPM), D.
NIKU, leaders; The Peoples Movement Gagauz Khalky (GKh), S.
GULGAR, leader; The Democratic Party of Gagauzia (DPG), G.
SAVOSTIN, chairman; The Alliance of Working People of Moldova (AWPM), G.
Moldova has a little more than 1% of the population, labor force, capital stock, and output of the former Soviet Union.
Living standards have been below average for the European USSR.
The country enjoys a favorable climate, and economic development has been primarily based on agriculture, featuring fruits, vegetables, wine, and tobacco.
Industry accounts for 20% of the labor force, whereas agriculture employs more than one-third.
The Principality has successfully sought to diversify into services and small, high-value-added, nonpolluting industries.
ELBEGDORJ, chief coordinator; Mongolian Party of National Progress, GANBOLD other: Mongolian Democratic Party (MDP), BATUUL; Free Labor Party, C.
LAKE; Deputy Chief of Mission Thomas E.
Economic activity traditionally has been based on agriculture and the breeding of livestock - Mongolia has the highest number of livestock per person in the world.
Timber and fishing are also important sectors.
In 1991-92 Mongolian leadership is struggling with severe economic dislocations, mainly attributable to the economic crumbling of the USSR, by far Mongolia's leading trade and development partner.
Moscow almost certainly cut aid in 1991, and the dissolution of the USSR at yearend 1991 makes prospects for aid quite bleak for 1992.
MEADE (since October 1991) Political parties and leaders: National Progressive Party (NPP) Reuben T.
Economic performance in 1991 was mixed.
A record harvest helped real GDP advance by 4.2%, although nonagricultural output grew by less than 1%.
Inflation accelerated slightly as easier financial policies triggered rapid credit and monetary growth.
Despite recovery of domestic demand, import volume growth slowed while export volume was adversely affected by phosphate marketing difficulties.
In January 1992, Morocco reached a new 12-month standby arrangement for $129 million with the IMF.
In February 1992, the Paris Club rescheduled $1.4 billion of Morocco's commercial debt. This is thought to be Morocco's last rescheduling.
By 1993 the Moroccan authorities hope to be in a position to meet all debt service obligations without additional rescheduling.
Indeed, national output, consumption, and investment declined throughout the first half of the 1980s because of internal disorders, lack of government administrative control, and a growing foreign debt.
Agricultural output, nevertheless, is at about only 75% of its 1981 level, and grain has to be imported.
The economy depends heavily on foreign assistance to keep afloat. The continuation of civil strife through 1991 has dimmed chances of foreign investment, and growth was a mere 1%.
Mining accounts for almost 25% of GDP.
Phosphates have given Nauruans one of the highest per capita incomes in the Third World - $10,000 annually. Few other resources exist, so most necessities must be imported, including fresh water from Australia.
Naryan SINGH Communist: Communist Party of Nepal/United Marxist and Leninist (CPN/UML), Man Mohan ADIKHARY; United People's Front (UPF), N.
PRASAI, Lila Mani POKHAREL; Nepal Workers and Peasants Party, leader NA; Rohit Party, N.
Production of textiles and carpets has expanded recently and accounted for 87% of foreign exchange earnings in FY89.
Apart from agricultural land and forests, the only other exploitable natural resources are mica, hydropower, and tourism.
Agricultural production in the late 1980s grew by about 5%, as compared with annual population growth of 2.6%.
Forty percent or more of the population is undernourished partly because of poor distribution.
Since May 1991, the government has been encouraging privatization and foreign investment.
It has introduced policies to eliminate many business licenses and registration requirements in order to simplify domestic and foreign investment procedures.
The highly mechanized agricultural sector employs only 5% of the labor force, but provides large surpluses for export and the domestic food-processing industry.
The islands enjoy a high per capita income and a well-developed infrastructure as compared with other countries in the region.
The results have been mixed: inflation is down from double-digit levels, but growth has been sluggish and unemployment, always a highly sensitive issue, has exceeded 10% since May 1991.
Four private banks have been licensed, and the government has liberalized foreign trade and abolished price controls on most goods.
Over 50% of the agricultural and industrial firms remain state owned.
Sandinista economic policies and the war had produced a severe economic crisis.
Farm production fell by roughly 7% in 1989 and 4% in 1990, and remained about even in 1991.
The agricultural sector employs 44% of the work force and accounts for 15% of GDP and 80% of export earnings.
Industry, which employs 13% of the work force and contributes about 25% to GDP, showed a drop of 7% in 1989, fell slightly in 1990, and remained flat in 1991; output still is below pre-1979 levels.
WARD; Embassy at Avenue des Ambassades, Niamey (mailing address is B.
Uranium production grew rapidly in the mid-1970s, but tapered off in the early 1980s when world prices declined.
France is a major customer, while Germany, Japan, and Spain also make regular purchases.
In 1991 massive government spending, much of it to help ensure a smooth transition to civilian rule, ballooned the budget deficit and caused inflation and interest rates to rise.
The lack of fiscal discipline forced the IMF to declare Nigeria not in compliance with an 18-month standby facility started in January 1991.
Lagos has set ambitious targets for expanding oil production capacity and is offering foreign companies more attractive investment incentives.
Government efforts to reduce Nigeria's dependence on oil exports and to sustain noninflationary growth, however, have fallen short because of inadequate new investment funds and endemic corruption.
Government expenditures regularly exceed revenues, with the shortfall made up by grants from New Zealand - the grants are used to pay wages to public employees.
The agricultural sector consists mainly of subsistence gardening, although some cash crops are grown for export.
DeLeon GUERRERO (since 9 January 1990); Lieutenant Governor Benjamin T.
An agreement for the years 1986 to 1992 entitles the islands to $228 million for capital development, government operations, and special programs. Another major source of income is the tourist industry, which employs about 10% of the work force.
The government controls key areas, such as the vital petroleum sector, through large-scale state enterprises and extensively subsidizes agricultural, fishing, and other sectors.
Norway also maintains an extensive welfare system that helps propel public-sector expenditures to slightly more than 50% of the GDP and results in one of the highest average tax burdens in the world (54%).
A small country with a high dependence on international trade, Norway is basically an exporter of raw materials and semiprocessed goods, with an abundance of small- and medium-sized firms, and is ranked among the major shipping nations.
The country is richly endowed with natural resources - petroleum, hydropower, fish, forests, and minerals - and is highly dependent on its oil sector to keep its economy afloat.
Although one of the government's main priorities is to reduce this dependency, this situation is not likely to improve for years to come.
Inflation will remain about 3%, while unemployment continues at record levels of over 5% because of the weakness of the economy outside the oil sector.
MOSS; US Liaison Office at Top Side, Neeriyas, Koror (mailing address: P.
It provides cheap sea transportation between East and West, extensive fishing grounds, offshore oil and gas fields, minerals, and sand and gravel for the construction industry.
Exploitation of offshore oil and gas reserves is playing an ever-increasing role in the energy supplies of Australia, New Zealand, China, US, and Peru.
Almost all agriculture and small-scale industry is in private hands.
In 1990, Pakistan embarked on a sweeping economic liberalization program to boost foreign and domestic private investment and lower foreign aid dependence.
The SHARIF government has denationalized several state-owned firms and has attracted some foreign investment.
Pakistan likely will have difficulty raising living standards because of its rapidly expanding population.
Delay in coming to terms with the international financial institutions on policies to implement structural reform in Panama generated uncertainty in the private sector and tempered the pace of business expansion in 1991.
Public investment was limited as the administration kept the fiscal deficit below 3% of GDP.
FARRAND; Embassy at Armit Street, Port Moresby (mailing address is P.
GLASSMAN; Embassy at 1776 Avenida Mariscal Lopez, Asuncion (mailing address is C.
In a major step to increase its economic activity in the region, Paraguay in March 1991 joined the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR), which includes Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay.
During 1991 the government began to more seriously address its arrearages with international creditors and its domestic fiscal problems.
Inflation was cut in third, but the foreign trade deficit widened to more than $1 billion.
An austerity program implemented shortly after the FUJIMORI government took office in July 1990 contributed to a third consecutive yearly contraction of economic activity, but the slide halted late in the year, and output rose 2.4% in 1991.
After a burst of inflation as the austerity program eliminated government price subsidies, monthly price increases eased to the single-digit level and by December 1991 dropped to the lowest increase since mid-1987.
It slowed again during the period 1990-91.
Manufacturing contributes about 35% of GDP.
The fertile soil of the valleys produces a wide variety of fruits and vegetables, including citrus, sugarcane, watermelons, bananas, yams, and beans.
Production fell in state enterprises, however, and the unemployment rate climbed steadily from virtually nothing in 1989 to 11.4% in December 1991.
Poland fell out of compliance with its IMF program by mid-1991, and talks with commercial creditors stalled.
To prepare for the European single market, the government is restructuring and modernizing the economy and in 1989 embarked on a major privatization program.
Encouraged by duty free access to the US and by tax incentives, US firms have invested heavily in Puerto Rico since the 1950s. Important new industries include pharmaceuticals, electronics, textiles, petrochemicals, and processed foods.
The economy has largely recovered from the disruptions caused by Hurricane Hugo in September 1989.
KEITH; Embassy at 149 Ali Bin Ahmed St., Farig Bin Omran (opposite the television station), Doha (mailing address is P.
Oil has given Qatar a per capita GDP of about $15,000, comparable to the leading industrial countries.
Sugarcane has been the primary crop for more than a century, and in some years it accounts for 85% of exports.
The gap in Reunion between the well-off and the poor is extraordinary and accounts for the persistent social tensions.
The white and Indian communities are substantially better off than other segments of the population, often approaching European standards, whereas indigenous groups suffer the poverty and unemployment typical of the poorer nations of the African continent.
The outbreak of severe rioting in February 1991 illustrates the seriousness of socioeconomic tensions.
The year 1991 witnessed about a 17% drop in industrial production because of energy and input shortages and labor unrest.
In recent years the agricultural sector has had to contend with flooding, mismanagement, shortages of inputs, and disarray caused by the dismantling of cooperatives.
A shortage of fuel and equipment in 1991 contributed to a lackluster harvest, a problem compounded by corruption and a poor distribution system.
The new government is loosening the tight central controls of CEAUSESCU'S command economy.
It has instituted moderate land reforms, with more than one-half of cropland now in private hands, and it has liberalized private agricultural output.
A law providing for the privatization of large state firms has been passed.
Most of the large state firms have been converted into joint-stock companies, but the selling of shares and assets to private owners has been delayed.
While the government has halted the old policy of diverting food from domestic consumption to hard currency export markets, supplies remain scarce in some areas.
Furthermore, real wages in Romania fell about 20% in 1991, contributing to the unrest which forced the resignation of ROMAN in September.
Within the now-dismantled USSR, it had produced 60% of total output, with 55% of the total labor force and 60% of the total capital stock.
Russia depends on its world-class deposits of oil and gas not only for its own needs but also for vital hard currency earnings.
Self-sufficient in coal and iron ore, it has a crude steel production capacity of about 95 million tons, second only to Japan.
Russia's machine-building sector - 60% of the old USSR's - lags behind world standards of efficiency and quality of product.
Other major industrial sectors - chemicals, construction materials, light industry, and food processing - also suffer from quality problems, obsolescent capital equipment, and pollution.
Consumer goods have had lower priority, and the product mix has not mirrored household preferences.
Russia produces almost half of the old USSR's farm products, but most warm-climate crops must be imported.
Under the old USSR, production of industrial and agricultural goods often was concentrated in a single firm or a single republic.
Today, producing units often have lost their major customers and their major sources of supply, and the market institutions and incentives for adjusting to the new political and economic situations are only slowly emerging.
Rank-and-file Russians will continue to suffer major deprivations in 1992 and beyond before the country begins to realize its great economic potential.
The industrial sector in Rwanda is small, contributing only 17% to GDP.
The Rwandan economy remains dependent on coffee exports and foreign aid.
In March 1989, an agreement between France and Canada set fish quotas for Saint Pierre's trawlers fishing in Canadian and Canadian-claimed waters for three years. The agreement settles a longstanding dispute that had virtually brought fish exports to a halt.
The value of imports generally exceeds that of exports by a ratio of 4:1.
The emphasis on cocoa production at the expense of other food crops has meant that Sao Tome has to import 90% of food needs. It also has to import all fuels and most manufactured goods.
FREEMAN, Jr.; Embassy at Collector Road M, Diplomatic Quarter, Riyadh (mailing address is American Embassy, Unit 61307, Riyadh; International Mail: P.
Saudi Arabia has the largest reserves of petroleum in the world, ranks as the largest exporter of petroleum, and plays a leading role in OPEC.
The situation in Serbia and Montenegro remains fluid in view of the extensive political and military strife.
This new state faces major economic problems.
First, like the other former Yugoslav republics, Serbia and Montenegro depended on their sister republics for large amounts of foodstuffs, energy supplies, and manufactures.
Wide varieties in climate, mineral resources, and levels of technology among the six republics accentuated this interdependence, as did the Communist practice of concentrating much industrial output in a small number of giant plants.
The breakup of many of the trade links, the sharp drop in output as industrial plants lost suppliers and markets, and the destruction of physical assets in the fighting all have contributed to the economic difficulties of the republics.
One singular factor in the economic situation of Serbia and Montenegro is the continuation in office of a Communist government that is primarily interested in political and military mastery, not economic reform.
MARENGO; Chancery (temporary) at 820 Second Avenue, Suite 900F, New York, NY 10017; telephone (212) 687-9766 US: Ambassador Richard W.
Manufacturing, which accounts for roughly 10% of GDP, consists mainly of the processing of raw materials and of light manufacturing for the domestic market.
The economy suffers from high unemployment, rising inflation, large trade deficits, and a growing dependency on foreign assistance.
The government in 1990 was attempting to get the budget deficit under control and, in general, to bring economic policy in line with the recommendations of the IMF and the World Bank.
NATHAN; Chancery at 1824 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20009; telephone (202) 667-7555 US: Ambassador Robert D.
Because of its strong ties to Western Europe and the small scale of damage during internecine fighting in Yugoslavia, Slovenia has the brightest prospects among the former Yugoslav republics for economic reform and recovery over the next few years.
The political and economic disintegration of Yugoslavia, however, has led to severe short-term dislocations in production, employment, and trade ties.
For example, overall industrial production fell 10% in 1991; particularly hard hit were the iron and steel, machine-building, chemical, and textile industries.
Meanwhile, fighting has continued in other republics leading to further destruction of long-established trade channels and to an influx of tens of thousands of Croatian refugees.
The key program for breaking up and privatizing major industrial firms has not yet begun.
Bright spots for encouraging Western investors are Slovenia's comparatively well-educated work force, its developed infrastructure, and its Western business attitudes.
Agriculture, fishing, and forestry contribute about 70% to GDP, with the fishing and forestry sectors being important export earners.
Sh.) = 100 centesimi Exchange rates: Somali shillings (So.
DE KLERK (since 13 September 1989) Political parties and leaders: white political parties and leaders: National Party (NP), Frederik W.
In accordance with its accession treaty, Spain has almost wholly liberalized trade and capital markets.
Foreign and domestic investment has spurred average growth of 4% per year.
Beginning in 1989, Madrid implemented a tight monetary policy to fight inflation - around 7% in 1989 and 1990.
As a result growth slowed to 2.5% in 1991.
Spanish policymakers remain concerned with inflation - still hovering at 6%.
Government officials also are worried about 16% unemployment, although many people listed as unemployed work in the underground economy.
Susanta De ALWIS; Chancery at 2148 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 483-4025 through 4028; there is a Sri Lankan Consulate in New York US: Ambassador Marion V.
The plantation crops of tea, rubber, and coconuts provide about one-third of export earnings.
CHEEK (will be replaced summer of 1992); Embassy at Shar'ia Ali Abdul Latif, Khartoum (mailing address is P.
The economy's base is agriculture, which employs 80% of the work force.
Industry mainly processes agricultural items.
In 1990 the International Monetary Fund took the unusual step of declaring Sudan noncooperative because of its nonpayment of arrearages to the Fund.
UDENHOUT; Chancery at Suite 108, 4301 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 244-7488 or 7490 through 7492; there is a Surinamese Consulate General in Miami US: Ambassador John (Jack) P.
A drop in world bauxite prices which started in the late 1970s and continued until late 1986 was followed by the outbreak of a guerrilla insurgency in the interior that crippled the important bauxite sector.
Although the insurgency has since ebbed and the bauxite sector recovered, a military coup in December 1990 reflected continued political instability and deterred investment and economic reform.
Although US, UK, Dutch, and Swedish coal companies have mined in the past, the only companies still mining are Norwegian and Russian.
Manufacturing, which includes a number of agroprocessing factories, accounts for another quarter of GDP. Mining has declined in importance in recent years; high-grade iron ore deposits were depleted in 1978, and health concerns cut world demand for asbestos.
The free-market-oriented reforms are designed to spur growth, maintain price stability, lower unemployment, create a more efficient welfare state, and further adapt to EC standards.
The measures include: cutting taxes, particularly the value-added tax (VAT) and levies on new and small business; privatization; liberalizing foreign ownership restrictions; and opening the welfare system to competition and private alternatives, which the government will still finance.
Growth is expected to remain flat in 1992, but increase slightly in 1993, while inflation should remain around 3% for the next few years.
Economic stability helps promote the important banking and tourist sectors.
ROSS; Embassy at Abu Rumaneh, Al Mansur Street No. 2, Damascus (mailing address is P.
Economic growth averaged nearly 12% annually in 1990-91, buoyed by increased oil production and improved agricultural performance.
The Gulf war of early 1991 provided Syria an aid windfall of several billion dollars from Arab, European, and Japanese donors.
These inflows more than offset Damascus's war-related costs and will help Syria cover some of its debt arrears, restore suspended credit lines, and initiate selected military and civilian purchases.
For the long run, Syria's economy is still saddled with a large number of poorly performing public sector firms; investment levels remain low; and industrial and agricultural productivity is poor.
Real growth in GNP has averaged about 9% a year during the past three decades.
Export growth has been even faster and has provided the impetus for industrialization.
Traditional labor-intensive industries are steadily being replaced with more capital- and technology-intensive industries.
Taiwan has become a major investor in China, Thailand, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Malaysia.
Agriculture is the main economic sector, normally accounting for 38% of employment and featuring cotton and fruits.
Industry is sparse, bright spots including electric power and aluminum production based on the country's sizable hydropower resources and a surprising specialty in the production of metal-cutting machine tools.
In 1991 and early 1992, disruptions in food supplies from the outside have severely strained the availability of food throughout the republic.
The economy is heavily dependent on agriculture, which accounts for about 47% of GDP, provides 85% of exports, and employs 90% of the work force.
Industry accounts for 8% of GDP and is mainly limited to processing agricultural products and light consumer goods.
The World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and bilateral donors have provided funds to rehabilitate Tanzania's deteriorated economic infrastructure.
The increasingly sophisticated manufacturing sector benefited from export-oriented investment.
The manufacturing and service sectors have accounted for the lion's share of economic growth. Thailand's traditional agricultural sector continued to become less important to the overall economy in 1991.
The trade deficit continued to increase in 1991, to $11 billion; earnings from tourism and remittances grew marginally as a result of the Gulf War; and Thailand's import bill grew, especially for manufactures and oil.
The government has followed fairly sound fiscal and monetary policies.
Aided by increased tax receipts from the fast-moving economy; Bangkok recorded its fourth consecutive budget surplus in 1991.
The government is moving ahead with new projects - especially for telecommunications, roads, and port facilities - needed to refurbish the country's overtaxed infrastructure.
The economy fell sharply through most of the 1980s, largely because of the decline in oil prices.
This sector accounts for 80% of export earnings and more than 25% of GDP.
The economy showed signs of recovery in 1990, however, helped along by rising oil prices. Agriculture employs only about 11% of the labor force and produces about 3% of GDP.
Although real growth in per capita GDP averaged 5% annually between 1983 and 1988, recent economic performance has fallen substantially.
Moreover, inflation and interest rates remain high, and a large budget deficit will continue to provide difficulties for a country undergoing a substantial transformation from a centrally controlled to a free market economy.
Agriculture remains an important economic sector, employing about half of the work force, accounting for 18% of GDP, and contributing 19% to exports.
The government has launched a multibillion-dollar development program in the southeastern region, which includes the building of a dozen dams on the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers to generate electric power and irrigate large tracts of farmland.
The planned tapping of huge additional quantities of Euphrates water has raised serious concern in the downstream riparian nations of Syria and Iraq.
The Turkish economy emerged from the Gulf War of early 1991 in stronger shape than Ankara had expected.
This process requires wholesale changes in supply sources, markets, property rights, and monetary arrangements.
Industry - with 10% of the labor force - is heavily weighted toward the energy sector, which produced 11% of the ex-USSR's gas and 1% of its oil.
The policy changes are especially aimed at dampening inflation, which was running at over 300% in 1987, and boosting production and export earnings.
BILORUS; Embassy at 1828 L Street, NW, Suite 711, Washington, DC 20036; telephone (202) 296-6960 US: Ambassador Roman POPADIUK; Embassy at ;10 Vul.
After Russia, the Ukrainian republic was far and away the most important economic component of the former Soviet Union producing more than three times the output of the next-ranking republic.
Its fertile black soil generated more than one fourth of Soviet agricultural output, and its farms provided substantial quantities of meat, milk, grain and vegetables to other republics.
Likewise, its well-developed and diversified heavy industry supplied equipment and raw materials to industrial and mining sites in other regions of the USSR.
Britain's inflation rate, which has been consistently well above those of her major trading partners, declined significantly in 1991.
Between 1986 and 1990 unemployment fell from 11% to about 6%, but crept back up to 8% in 1991 because of the economic slowdown.
BOND, national committee chairman; Jeanie AUSTIN, co-chairman; Democratic Party, Ronald H.
The economy is market oriented with most decisions made by private individuals and business firms and with government purchases of goods and services made predominantly in the marketplace.
In 1991, domestic growth improved somewhat over 1990, but various government factors, including concentration on the external sector, adverse weather conditions, and greater attention to bringing down inflation and reducing the fiscal deficit kept output from expanding rapidly.
In a major step toward greater regional economic cooperation, Uruguay joined Brazil, Argentina, and Paraguay in forming the Southern Cone Common Market (Mercosur).
Moscow's push for ever-increasing amounts of cotton included massive irrigation projects which caused extensive environmental damage to the Aral Sea and rivers of the republic. Furthermore, the lavish use of chemical fertilizers has caused extensive pollution and widespread health problems.
Recently the republic has sought to encourage food production at the expense of cotton.
The small industrial sector specializes in such items as agricultural machinery, mineral fertilizers, vegetable oil, and electrical cranes.
Uzbekistan also has some important natural resources including gold (about 30% of Soviet production), uranium, and natural gas.
Lower tariffs and price supports, a free market exchange rate, and market-linked interest rates threw the economy into confusion, causing an 8% decline in GDP in 1989.
The economy is primarily agricultural; the sector employs about 70% of the labor force and accounts for half of GNP.
Oil was discovered off the southern coast in 1986 with production reaching 70,000 barrels per day in 1991 and expected to increase in the years ahead.
The economy remains heavily dependent on foreign aid and has received assistance from UN agencies, France, Australia, Sweden, and Communist countries.
Inflation, although down from recent triple-digit levels, is still a major weakness and is showing signs of accelerating upwards again. Per capita output is among the world's lowest.
HODGE (since 5 January 1987) Political parties and leaders: Democratic Party, Marilyn STAPLETON; Independent Citizens' Movement (ICM), Virdin C.
The agricultural sector is small, most food being imported.
About 4% of the population is employed in government.
Revenues come from French Government subsidies, licensing of fishing rights to Japan and South Korea, import taxes, and remittances from expatriate workers in New Caledonia.
Capital investment consists largely of residential housing, not productive assets that would enable local firms to compete with Israeli industry.
A major share of GNP is derived from remittances of workers employed in Israel and Persian Gulf states, but such transfers from the Gulf dropped dramatically after Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990.
In the wake of the Persian Gulf crisis, many Palestinians have returned to the West Bank, increasing unemployment, and export revenues have plunged because of the loss of markets in Jordan and the Gulf states.
Israeli measures to curtail the intifadah also have pushed unemployment up and lowered living standards.
Pastoral nomadism, fishing, and phosphate mining are the principal sources of income for the population. Most of the food for the urban population must be imported.
The economy depends on emigrant remittances and foreign aid to support a level of imports several times export earnings.
In 1991, the developed countries grew by 2.5% and the LDCs by 3.5%, these gains being offset by a 10-15% drop in the former Communist-dominated areas of the USSR and Eastern Europe.
As usual, results among individual countries differed widely.
In the developed group, Japan led with 4.5%, the West European members averaged 1.2%, and the recession-plagued United States lagged,with GDP down 0.7%.
As for the 15 former Soviet republics and the seven nations of Eastern Europe, output plummeted in many economic sectors because of fundamental changes in the rules of the game and in the channels of production and exchange.
China and the Four Dragons performed well in 1991 but many of the other developing countries are mired in poverty and political instability.
HUGHES; Embassy at Dhahr Himyar Zone, Sheraton Hotel District, Sanaa (mailing address is P.
South Yemen's willingness to merge stemmed partly from the steady decline in Soviet economic support. Overview: North: The low level of domestic industry and agriculture have made northern Yemen dependent on imports for virtually all of its essential needs.
Once self-sufficient in food production, northern Yemen has become a major importer.
Land once used for export crops - cotton, fruit, and vegetables - has been turned over to growing qat, a mildly narcotic shrub chewed by Yemenis which has no significant export market.
Oil export revenues started flowing in late 1987 and boosted 1988 earnings by about $800 million. South: This has been one of the poorest Arab countries, with a per capita GNP of about $500.
The country's chronic economic problems worsened in 1991, with copper and cobalt production down 20-30%, inflation near 8,000% in 1991 as compared with 100% in 1987-89, and IMF and most World Bank support suspended until the institution of agreed-on changes.
The main potential for economic development has been the extractive industries. Mining and mineral processing account for about one-third of GDP and three-quarters of total export earnings.
STREEB; Embassy at corner of Independence Avenue and United Nations Avenue, Lusaka (mailing address is P.
In 1991 real GDP fell by 2%.
An annual population growth of more than 3% has brought a decline in per capita GDP of 50% over the past decade.
Wide year-to-year fluctuations in agricultural production over the past six years have resulted in an uneven growth rate, one that on average has matched the 3% annual increase in population.
Helped by an IMF/World Bank structural adjustment program, output rose 3.5% in 1991.
The Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, and the Iraq - Saudi Arabia Neutral Zone have been dropped.
All 15 former Soviet republics have been added - Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan.
Bosnia and Hercegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Serbia and Montenegro, and Slovenia have replaced Yugoslavia.
Changes that have been reported but not yet acted on by BGN are noted. Area: Total area is the sum of all land and water areas delimited by international boundaries and/or coastlines.
Land area is the aggregate of all surfaces delimited by international boundaries and/or coastlines, excluding inland water bodies (lakes, reservoirs, rivers).
Comparative areas are based on total area equivalents.
Population figures are estimates for 1 July 1992, with population growth rates estimated for mid-1992 through mid-1993.
The US has diplomatic relations with 167 of the 178 UN members - the exceptions are Angola, Bhutan, Bosnia and Hercegovina, Croatia, Cuba, Iran, Iraq, North Korea, Slovenia, and Vietnam.
OOF transactions include official export credits (such as Eximbank credits), official equity and portfolio investment, and debt reorganization by the official sector that does not meet concessional terms.
The long-form name is included in the ``Government'' section, and an entry of ``none'' indicates a long-form name does not exist.
One thousand dollars will buy the same market basket of goods in the US as one thousand dollars - converted to the local currency at the PPP conversion rate - will buy in the other country.
The rate may be positive or negative. Illicit drugs: There are five categories of illicit drugs - narcotics, stimulants, depressants (sedatives), hallucinogens, and cannabis.
In the UK, the monarch is the chief of state, and the Prime Minister is the head of government.
Surfing the INTERNET: an Introduction Version 2.0.2 December 15, 1992 c.
Material quoted from other authors was compiled from public Internet posts by those authors.
No copyright claims are made for those compiled quotes.
Permission to reprint is granted for nonprofit educational purposes.
Please let me know if you find this compilation useful. This first (much shorter) version of this appeared in the June, 1992 Wilson Library Bulletin.
Please include this entire copyright/copy notice if you duplicate this document.
I'm not frantically packing, and I won't pick up any frequent flyer mileage.
I haven't "visited" Antarctica yet, but it is only a matter of time before a host computer becomes available there! This short, non-technical article is an introduction to Internet communications and how librarians and libraries can benefit from net connectivity.
Following will be descriptions of electronic mail, discussion lists, electronic journals and texts, and resources available to those willing to explore.
About one million people worldwide use the Internet daily.
Information packet traffic rises by 12% each month. About 727,000 host computers are connected, according to a January, 1992 report (Network Working Group Request for Comments: 1296) by Mark K.
Lottor. So, what's all the excitement about?
The Internet never closes! After that I read some electronic mail from other librarians in Israel, Korea, England, Australia and all over the U.S.
We're exchanging information about how to keep viruses off public computers, how to network CDROMS, and how to reink inkjet printer cartridges, among other things. I monitor about twelve discussion groups.
Mail sent to the group address is distributed to all other "subscribers".
It's similar to a round-robin discussion.
These are known variously as mailing lists, discussion groups, reflectors, aliases, or listservs, depending on what type they are and how they are driven.
Subscriptions are free. One of these groups allows children and young adults all over the world to communicate with each other.
Kids from Cupertino to Moscow are talking about their lives, pets, families, hope and dreams.
Their results were posted to the global project area, where they could be compared with reports from kids all over North and South America, India, Scandinavia, and Asia.
It promotes active, participatory learning.
Participating in a discussion group is like being at an ongoing library conference.
All the experts are Out There, waiting to be asked. Want to buy a CDROM drive?
Send one query and "ask" the 3,000 folks on PACS-L (Public Access Computer Systems list) for advice.
How do you cope with budget cuts: personnel layoffs or materials?
Again, LIBADMIN use allows shared advice. Here is one story about the power of the net.
At Christmas, an electronic plea came from Ireland.
My daughter believes in Santa Claus," it began. "And although the `My Little Pony Megan & Sundance' set has not been made in three years, she believes Santa will prevail and she will find one under her tree.
Mom, a university professor, had called the manufacturer in the US, but none were available.
Check around," they said, "maybe some yet stand on store shelves.
So Mom sent the call out to the net. Many readers began a global search for the wily Pony as part of their own holiday shopping forays. Soon, another message came from Dublin.
It lets all kinds of computers and humans talk to each other.
Electronic mail is not always an harmonic convergence of like souls adrift in the cyberspace cosmos: there are arguments and tirades (called "flames").
Sometimes you get so used to seeing a frequent poster's electronic signature that you know what he's going to say before he says it! Smileys One problem with written communication is that remarks meant to be humorous are often lost.
Without the visual body-language clues, some messages may be misinterpreted.
So a visual shorthand known as "smileys" has been developed.
There are a hundred or more variations on this theme- :-) That's a little smiley face.
Folks wearing glasses might look like this online: %^). But for the most part, the electronic community is willing to help others. Telecommunications helps us overcome what has been called the tyranny of distance.
We DO have a global village. Electronic Newsletters and Serials Subscribing to lists with reckless abandon can clog your mailbox and provide a convenient black hole to vacuum up all your spare time.
You may be more interested in free subscriptions to compiled documents known as electronic journals.
These journals are automatically delivered to your electronic door. There are a growing number of these.
Some of the best for librarians are listed below.
To subscribe to these journals you must know how to send an interactive message to another computer.
This information is well- documented in the resources listed at the end of this article.
Telnet and ftp are introduced further along in this article. ALCTS NETWORK NEWS (Association for Library Collections and Technical Services) Various ALA news, net news, other items of interest to librarians.
Send the following message to LISTSERV@UICVM.BITNET SUBSCRIBE ALCTS First Name Last Name. Current Cites Bibliography of current journal articles relating to computers, networks, information issues, and technology.
Distributed on PACS-L, or connect remotely via TELNET to MELVYL.UCOP.EDU (192.35.222.222); Enter this command at the prompt: SHOW CURRENT CITES. Further information: David F.
Robison, drobison@library.berkeley.edu. EFFector Online The online newsletter of the Electronic Frontier Foundation.
Further information: Susan Jurist, SJURIST@UCSD.EDU. Network News An irreverent compendium of tidbits, resources, and net factoids that is a must for true Internet surfers.
To subscribe, send the following message to LISTSERV@NDSUVM1.BITNET SUBSCRIBE NNEWS First Name Last Name. For more information: Dana Noonan at noonan@msus1.msus.edu. Public-Access Computer Systems News and The Public-Access Computer Systems Review Sent automatically to PACS-L subscribers.
This feature lets you virtually teleport anywhere on the network and use resources located physically at that host.
Further, some hosts have gateways to other hosts, which have further gateways to still more hosts.
How can you be in two places at once?
It sounds more confusing than it is.
16 schools (from five states and four nations) participated.
They are being assisted by the National Center for Supercomputing Applications." "ST. JULIE BILLIART SCHOOL Hamilton, OH (ba542@cleveland.freenet.edu) Simulating a NASA Tracking Station in Florida.
They will be posting hourly weather reports about the conditions in Florida around Cape Kennedy.
This information is vital to the recovery of the Friendship 7 capsule and crew.
It represents nearly 11 million holdings at UC, the California State Library, and the Center for Research Libraries. The MELVYL catalog also provides access to MEDLINE and Current Contents as well as a gateway to many other systems.
Access to some databases is restricted under a license agreement to the University of California faculty, staff, and students.
Normal practice is to ftp to the host you want and login as "anonymous".
Some sites use the password "guest" while others require that you put in your network address as the password.
See further information on this in the "Resources for Learning More" section of this article. Project Gutenberg The primary goal of Project Gutenberg is to encourage the creation and distribution of electronic text.
Collectively, these files represent well over 50 Gigabytes (50,000,000,000 bytes) of information, with additional information being added daily.
Gopher is still in experimental mode at many gopherized sites.
Frustrated comments in the net news- groups have recently reflected the need for such a service.
Items on this menu may be drawn from many gopher servers.
These are functional gopher items, immediately accessible via the gopher client just double- click to open directories, read files, or perform other searches -- across hundreds of gopher servers.
You need never know which server is actually involved in filling your request for information.
Veronica indexes the TITLES on all levels of the menus, for most gopher sites in the Internet.
258 gophers are indexed by Veronica on Nov. 17, 1992; we have discovered over 500 servers and will index the full set in the near future.
The client then searches various WAIS servers around the globe.
The user tells the client how relevant each hit is, and the client can be sent out on the same quest again and again to find new documents.
Client software is available for many different types of computers. WAIStation is an easy to use Macintosh implementation of a WAIS client. It can be downloaded from think.com as well as a self-running MediaTracks demo of WAIStation in action.
The WWW world consists of documents, and links.
Indexes are special documents which, rather than being read, may be searched.
The result of such a search is another (`virtual') document containing links to the documents found.
The Web contains documents in many formats.
Those documents which are hypertext, (real or virtual) contain links to other documents, or places within documents.
To search and index, a reader gives keywords (or other search criteria).
You can get it via anonymous ftp from: access.usask.ca in the pub/hytelnet/pc subdirectory.
It is listed as HYTELN63.ZIP." "Version 6.3 is a major upgrade.
Much redundant information has been deleted, and errors have been corrected.
To unarchive it, you must be able to "unzip" the file.
The file READNOW gives full instructions for un-archiving HYTELNET.ZIP.
I cannot be responsible for any local variations in these procedures which may exist.
Time was that you needed a standard, dedicated connection to the Internet.
Then you needed a robust computer system and a couple of zany gurus to keep it all running.
It is available from the NSF Network Service Center. Contact your regional network first to see what services might be available to you.
A list of regional nets can be obtained from the NSF Network Service Center (address below), or check with a local college or university's academic computing center.
Here are a few other methods of connecting to the net.
Many more are listed in the "must-have" books at the end of this article. CERFnet The California Education and Research Federation (CERFnet) has announced DIAL N' CERF USA.
There is an installation charge of $50. CERFnet California Education and Research Federation c/o San Diego Supercomputer Center P.O.
Box 85608 San Diego, CA 92186-9784 800/876-CERF or 619/534-5087 help@cerf.net Performance Systems International PSI offers several permutations of network connectivity, including low-end email-only accounts, dial-up host connectivity on demand, and dedicated connections.
Costs are competitive and performance is reliable.
Dern Free-lance technology writer P.O.
These may be obtained via anonymous ftp to nic.cerf.net (192.102.249.3). Call the CERFnet Hotline at 800-876-CERF for assistance. California Education and Research Federation c/o San Diego Supercomputer Center P.
Box 85608 San Diego, CA 92186- 9784 800/876-CERF or 619/534-5087 help@cerf.net CICNet Resource Guide Over 200 pages of Internet resources, published June, 1992.
Emily Postnews, foremost authority on proper net behaviour, gives her advice.
There are many places to ftp this file, and it is appearing on many gophers.
One place to get the file is by ftp to ra.msstate.edu (130.18.80.10) Location: /pub/docs/words- l/Funnies The file is called emily.postnews.
Here is a sample: "Dear Miss Postnews: How long should my signature be? -- verbose@noisy A: Dear Verbose: Please try and make your signature as long as you can.
It's much more important than your article, of course, so try to have more lines of signature than actual text.
Try to include a large graphic made of ASCII characters, plus lots of cute quotes and slogans.
People will never tire of reading these pearls of wisdom again and again, and you will soon become personally associated with the joy each reader feels at seeing yet another delightful repeat of your signature.
Be sure as well to include a complete map of USENET with each signature, to show how anybody can get mail to you from any site in the world. Be sure to include Internet gateways as well.
Also tell people on your own site how to mail to you.
Give independent addresses for Internet, UUCP, and BITNET, even if they're all the same." "Incomplete Guide to the Internet" The "Incomplete Guide" was compiled by the NCSA Education Group, dated September, 1992.
The resources include FTP sites, open BBS's and networks, Free-Nets, subscription services, and where to get more information on each resource.
This resource was complied by the Living Lab program (NSF funded) at NCSA as an attempt to encourage the proliferation of HPCC use in the K-12 classroom.
It can be ordered from: ALA Order Services 50 E.
It will also provide information about the tools needed to access those resources." ftp to NIC.MERIT.EDU /internet/resources.
Here is how the Gold Country Mining Instructions begin: "Jist durn tuckered o' workin' eight t' five for a salary. ain't you? An' you wanna set out for parts unknown.
Includes net history, net maps, net poetry and lore.
OPACS, databases, information resources, and more.
Here are several ways to find lists of interest to you. LISTSERVs available from NYSERNet.org Nysernet.org hosts over 20 lists, including folk_music and PUBLIB for public librarians.
Send a LIST GLOBAL command in an interactive message to our host.
For example: To: LISTSERV@nysernet.org Subject: Message: LIST GLOBAL The SRI NIC Maintained Interest-Groups List of Lists This is available by FTP from ftp.nisc.sri.com (192.33.33.22) in the directory /netinfo/interest-groups. The SRI NIC list-of-lists is also available via electronic mail.
We've also reduced the size of each record by trying to keep topic information between 25-50 words (some are still bigger).
Advice on this topic will be gratefully accepted at dkovacs@kentvm.kent.edu." "In addition, information about editorial policy and archive availability and frequency have also been included in each record.
Send an e-mail message addressed to LISTSERV@KENTVM or LISTSERV@KENTVM.KENT.EDU. 2.
Leave the subject and other info lines blank. 3.
The message must read: GET Filename Filetype (e.g.,filename=ACADLIST filetype=FILE1 or HQX or whatever) 4.
The files will be sent to you and you must receive them. 5.
If you need assistance receiving, etc. contact your local Computer Services people. How to retrieve the files via anonymous FTP (File Transfer Protocol) FTP to KSUVXA.KENT.EDU 1. when prompted for `USERID,' type ANONYMOUS. 2.
Your password will be your actual userid on your local machine. 3.
Type: GET Filename.Filetype (e.g., filename=ACADLIST filetype=FILE1 or HQX or whatever) 5.
In addition, `NEW-LIST' might be used as a final verification before establishing a list (to check for existing lists on the same topic, etc.).
It's a great idea and a useful way to "sample" a list. Here is the subscription information.
Email its author to be added to the List Review Service list, BITNET ADDRESS: SRCMUNS@UMSLVMA LIST REVIEW SERVICE ISSN: 1060-8192 Published bi-weekly, when school is in session, by The University of Missouri, St. Louis Libraries. Raleigh C.
FTP to ftp.unt.edu (129.120.1.1) /LIBRARY/LIBRARIES.TXT Dana Noonan's A Guide to Internet/Bitnet comes in two parts.
Part two is about Internet Libraries.
For more information: Metronet 226 Metro Square Building Seventh and Robert Streets St. Paul, Minnesota 55101 612/224-4801 FAX 612/224-4827 Must-have Books for the Internet Surfer Kehoe, Brendan. (1993).
Zen and the Art of the Internet: a Beginner's Guide (2nd ed.).
The first edition is available for free from many FTP sites (see below) This version has about 30 pages of new material and corrects various minor errors in the first edition.
Includes the story of the Coke Machine on the Internet.
For much of late 1991 and the first half of 1992, this was the document of choice for learning about the Internet.
The Whole Internet User's Guide & Catalog.
Sebastopol, CA: O'Reilly & Associates.
Comprehensive guide to how the network works, the domain name system, acceptable use, security, and other issues. Chapters on telnet/remote login, File Transfer Protocol, and electronic mail explain error messages, special situations, and other arcana.
Archie, Gopher, Net News, WAIS, WWW, and troubleshooting each enjoy a chapter in this well-written book.
Appendices contain info on how to get connected in addition to a glossary.
ISBN 1-56592-025-2. $24.95 LaQuey, Tracey, & Ryer, J.C. (1993).
The Internet Companion: a Beginner's Guide to Global Networking.
Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley. Beginning with a forewordby Vice-President Elect Al Gore, this book provides an often-humorous explanation of the origins of the Internet, acceptable use, basics of electronic mail, netiquette, online resources, transferring information, and finding email addresses.
The In the Know guide provides background on Internet legends (Elvis sightings is one), organizations, security issues, and how to get connected.
ISBN 0-201-62224-6 $10.95 Marine, April. (1992).
Menlo Park, CA: SRI International.
The Internet is a cooperating group of independently administered networks.
Some groups set basic policy though.) ISBN 0-944604-15-3 $39.00 SRI 333 Ravenswood Ave. Menlo Park, CA 94025 Tennant, Roy, Ober, J., & Lipow, A.
Crossing the Internet Threshold: An Instructional Handbook.
Berkeley, CA: Library Solutions Press.
A cookbook to run your own Internet training sessions.
ISBN: 1-882208-01-3 $45.00 Library Solutions Institute and Press 2137 Oregon Street Berkeley, CA 94705 510/841-2636 FAX: 510/841-2926 Magazine Matrix News, the monthly newsletter edited by John S.
Quarterman. Subscriptions are $30 per year. for a paper edition, $25/yr for an online edition.
These digits came from Scott Hemphill (see forwarded message). ***Forwarded Messages From Our Original Source*** I computed the digits of pi using Borwein's method.
I used a divide-and-conquer multiply routine, hand coded in 68020 assembly language.
The only independent check has come from David Bailey, whose results agree with mine to at least 1 million digits (probably....
The last 100 digits are the same.) Scott -- Scott Hemphill hemphill@csvax.cs.caltech.edu ...!ames!elroy!cit-vax!hemphill ***End of Forwarded Messages*** The file should fit uncompressed on a 1.44M floppy, is a million and a quarter digits of Pi.
The Shadow of Change Chapter II.
Garlands of Autumn Chapter III.
Greeting and Farewell Chapter IV.
Letters from Home Chapter VI.
In the Park Chapter VII.
Anne's First Proposal Chapter IX.
An Unwelcome Lover and a Welcome Friend Chapter X.
The Round of Life Chapter XII.
The Way of Transgressors Chapter XIV.
A Dream Turned Upside Down Chapter XVI.
A Letter from Davy Chapter XVIII.
Miss Josephine Remembers the Anne-girl Chapter XIX.
Roses of Yesterday Chapter XXII.
Spring and Anne Return to Green Gables Chapter XXIII.
Paul Cannot Find the Rock People Chapter XXIV.
Enter Prince Charming Chapter XXVI.
A June Evening Chapter XXIX.
Mrs. Skinner's Romance Chapter XXXI.
Anne to Philippa Chapter XXXII.
Tea with Mrs. Douglas Chapter XXXIII.
He Just Kept Coming and Coming" Chapter XXXIV.
John Douglas Speaks at Last Chapter XXXV.
The Last Redmond Year Opens Chapter XXXVI.
Deals with Weddings Chapter XL.
A Book of Revelation Chapter XLI.
Love Takes Up the Glass of Time Anne of the Island Chapter I The Shadow of Change "Harvest is ended and summer is gone," quoted Anne Shirley, gazing across the shorn fields dreamily.
And Miss Lavendar's wedding seemed to come as a sort of crown to it.
Miss Lavendar and Mr. and Mrs. Allan gone-how lonely the manse looks with the shutters all closed!
I went past it last night, and it made me feel as if everybody in it had died." "We'll never get another minister as nice as Mr. Allan," said Diana, with gloomy conviction.
I suppose we'll have all kinds of supplies this winter, and half the Sundays no preaching at all.
And you and Gilbert gone-it will be awfully dull." "Fred will be here," insinuated Anne slyly. "When is Mrs. Lynde going to move up?" asked Diana, as if she had not heard Anne's remark. "Tomorrow.
I'm glad she's coming-but it will be another change.
Marilla and I cleared everything out of the spare room yesterday.
Do you know, I hated to do it?
Of course, it was silly-but it did seem as if we were committing sacrilege.
That old spare room has always seemed like a shrine to me.
When I was a child I thought it the most wonderful apartment in the world.
You remember what a consuming desire I had to sleep in a spare room bed-but not the Green Gables spare room.
It would have been too terrible-I couldn't have slept a wink from awe.
I never _walked_ through that room when Marilla sent me in on an errand-no, indeed, I tiptoed through it and held my breath, as if I were in church, and felt relieved when I got out of it.
I always wondered how Marilla dared houseclean that room.
And now it's not only cleaned but stripped bare.
George Whitefield and the Duke have been relegated to the upstairs hall.
So passes the glory of this world,'" concluded Anne, with a laugh in which there was a little note of regret.
We mustn't let next week rob us of this week's joy.
I hate the thought of going myself-home and I are such good friends.
To be sure, Anne herself did not know that. "The boys may be boarding at the other end of Kingsport, for all I know," Anne went on.
I am glad I'm going to Redmond, and I am sure I shall like it after a while.
But for the first few weeks I know I won't.
I shan't even have the comfort of looking forward to the weekend visit home, as I had when I went to Queen's.
Christmas will seem like a thousand years away." "Everything is changing-or going to change," said Diana sadly.
I have a feeling that things will never be the same again, Anne." "We have come to a parting of the ways, I suppose," said Anne thoughtfully.
We had to come to it.
But there are so many puzzling things, too.
Sometimes I feel as if being grown-up just frightened me-and then I would give anything to be a little girl again." "I suppose we'll get used to being grownup in time," said Anne cheerfully.
There won't be so many unexpected things about it by and by-though, after all, I fancy it's the unexpected things that give spice to life.
In two more years we'll be twenty.
When I was ten I thought twenty was a green old age.
In no time you'll be a staid, middle-aged matron, and I shall be nice, old maid Aunt Anne, coming to visit you on vacations.
You'll always keep a corner for me, won't you, Di darling?
Not the spare room, of course-old maids can't aspire to spare rooms, and I shall be as 'umble as _Uriah Heep_, and quite content with a little over-the-porch or off-the-parlor cubby hole." "What nonsense you do talk, Anne," laughed Diana.
She found a letter awaiting her there, and when Gilbert Blythe overtook her on the bridge over the Lake of Shining Waters she was sparkling with the excitement of it. "Priscilla Grant is going to Redmond, too," she exclaimed.
I hoped she would, but she didn't think her father would consent.
He has, however, and we're to board together.
I feel that I can face an army with banners-or all the professors of Redmond in one fell phalanx-with a chum like Priscilla by my side." "I think we'll like Kingsport," said Gilbert.
It's a nice old burg, they tell me, and has the finest natural park in the world.
His hazel eyes deepened into darkness, his still boyish lips opened to say something of the dream and hope that thrilled his soul.
But Anne snatched her hand away and turned quickly.
The spell of the dusk was broken for her. "I must go home," she exclaimed, with a rather overdone carelessness. "Marilla had a headache this afternoon, and I'm sure the twins will be in some dreadful mischief by this time.
I really shouldn't have stayed away so long." She chattered ceaselessly and inconsequently until they reached the Green Gables lane.
Poor Gilbert hardly had a chance to get a word in edgewise.
Anne felt rather relieved when they parted.
There had been a new, secret self-consciousness in her heart with regard to Gilbert, ever since that fleeting moment of revelation in the garden of Echo Lodge.
It mustn't be spoiled-I won't let it.
Anne shivered over the disagreeable recollection.
Of course, you are sorry for her, but crying won't help her any.
She'll be all right tomorrow.
Crying never helps any one, Davy-boy, and-" "I ain't crying 'cause Dora fell down cellar," said Davy, cutting short Anne's wellmeant preachment with increasing bitterness.
I'm crying, cause I wasn't there to see her fall.
I'm always missing some fun or other, seems to me." "Oh, Davy!
Anne choked back an unholy shriek of laughter.
Would you call it fun to see poor little Dora fall down the steps and get hurt?" "She wasn't _much_ hurt," said Davy, defiantly.
Course, if she'd been killed I'd have been real sorry, Anne.
But the Keiths ain't so easy killed.
They're like the Blewetts, I guess.
Herb Blewett fell off the hayloft last Wednesday, and rolled right down through the turnip chute into the box stall, where they had a fearful wild, cross horse, and rolled right under his heels.
And still he got out alive, with only three bones broke.
Mrs. Lynde says there are some folks you can't kill with a meat-axe.
Is Mrs. Lynde coming here tomorrow, Anne?" "Yes, Davy, and I hope you'll be always very nice and good to her." "I'll be nice and good.
But will she ever put me to bed at nights, Anne?" "Perhaps.
Why?" "'Cause," said Davy very decidedly, "if she does I won't say my prayers before her like I do before you, Anne." "Why not?" "'Cause I don't think it would be nice to talk to God before strangers, Anne.
Dora can say hers to Mrs. Lynde if she likes, but _I_ won't.
I'll wait till she's gone and then say 'em.
Won't that be all right, Anne?" "Yes, if you are sure you won't forget to say them, Davy-boy." "Oh, I won't forget, you bet.
I think saying my prayers is great fun. But it won't be as good fun saying them alone as saying them to you.
I wish you'd stay home, Anne.
I don't see what you want to go away and leave us for." "I don't exactly _want_ to, Davy, but I feel I ought to go." "If you don't want to go you needn't.
When _I_'m grown up I'm not going to do one single thing I don't want to do, Anne." "All your life, Davy, you'll find yourself doing things you don't want to do." "I won't," said Davy flatly.
I have to do things I don't want to now 'cause you and Marilla'll send me to bed if I don't.
But when I grow up you can't do that, and there'll be nobody to tell me not to do things.
Won't I have the time!
Say, Anne, Milty Boulter says his mother says you're going to college to see if you can catch a man.
I want to know." For a second Anne burned with resentment.
Then she laughed, reminding herself that Mrs. Boulter's crude vulgarity of thought and speech could not harm her. "No, Davy, I'm not.
I'm going to study and grow and learn about many things." "What things?" "'Shoes and ships and sealing wax And cabbages and kings,'" quoted Anne. "But if you _did_ want to catch a man how would you go about it?
I want to know," persisted Davy, for whom the subject evidently possessed a certain fascination. "You'd better ask Mrs. Boulter," said Anne thoughtlessly.
I think it's likely she knows more about the process than I do." "I will, the next time I see her," said Davy gravely. "Davy!
Anne had always loved that brook.
Many a dream had she spun over its sparkling water in days gone by.
She forgot lovelorn youths, and the cayenne speeches of malicious neighbors, and all the problems of her girlish existence.
In imagination she sailed over storied seas that wash the distant shining shores of "faery lands forlorn," where lost Atlantis and Elysium lie, with the evening star for pilot, to the land of Heart's Desire.
It was a very pleasant little time, for the Pye girls were gracious, and said and did nothing to mar the harmony of the occasion-which was not according to their wont.
Josie was unusually amiable-so much so that she even remarked condescendingly to Anne, "Your new dress is rather becoming to you, Anne.
Really, you look _almost pretty_ in it." "How kind of you to say so," responded Anne, with dancing eyes.
Her sense of humor was developing, and the speeches that would have hurt her at fourteen were becoming merely food for amusement now.
She was so taken by surprise and pleased by the nice things said in the address, read in Moody Spurgeon's most solemn and ministerial tones, that the tears quite drowned the sparkle of her big gray eyes.
She had worked hard and faithfully for the A.V.I.S., and it warmed the cockles of her heart that the members appreciated her efforts so sincerely.
And they were all so nice and friendly and jolly-even the Pye girls had their merits; at that moment Anne loved all the world. She enjoyed the evening tremendously, but the end of it rather spoiled all.
Gilbert again made the mistake of saying something sentimental to her as they ate their supper on the moonlit verandah; and Anne, to punish him, was gracious to Charlie Sloane and allowed the latter to walk home with her.
She found, however, that revenge hurts nobody quite so much as the one who tries to inflict it.
Gilbert walked airily off with Ruby Gillis, and Anne could hear them laughing and talking gaily as they loitered along in the still, crisp autumn air.
They were evidently having the best of good times, while she was horribly bored by Charlie Sloane, who talked unbrokenly on, and never, even by accident, said one thing that was worth listening to.
And she honestly believed it was.
So Gilbert was not going to spend this last evening with Ruby Gillis after all! "You look tired, Anne," he said. "I am tired, and, worse than that, I'm disgruntled.
I'm tired because I've been packing my trunk and sewing all day.
That is just the trouble. If they had been spiteful cats I wouldn't have minded them.
With her sensitive nature all disapproval had weight, even the disapproval of those for whose opinions she had scant respect.
For the time being life was savorless, and ambition had gone out like a snuffed candle. "You surely don't care for what they said," protested Gilbert.
You know exactly how narrow their outlook on life is, excellent creatures though they are.
To do anything _they_ have never done is anathema maranatha.
You are the first Avonlea girl who has ever gone to college; and you know that all pioneers are considered to be afflicted with moonstruck madness." "Oh, I know.
But _feeling_ is so different from _knowing_.
My common sense tells me all you can say, but there are times when common sense has no power over me.
Common nonsense takes possession of my soul. Really, after Mrs. Elisha went away I hardly had the heart to finish packing." "You're just tired, Anne.
Come, forget it all and take a walk with me-a ramble back through the woods beyond the marsh.
There should be something there I want to show you." "Should be!
Don't you know if it is there?" "No. I only know it should be, from something I saw there in spring. Come on.
We'll pretend we are two children again and we'll go the way of the wind." They started gaily off.
Anne, remembering the unpleasantness of the preceding evening, was very nice to Gilbert; and Gilbert, who was learning wisdom, took care to be nothing save the schoolboy comrade again.
Mrs. Lynde and Marilla watched them from the kitchen window. "That'll be a match some day," Mrs. Lynde said approvingly. Marilla winced slightly.
We old folks, Marilla, are too much given to thinking children never grow up, that's what.
Anne is a young woman and Gilbert's a man, and he worships the ground she walks on, as any one can see.
He's a fine fellow, and Anne can't do better.
I hope she won't get any romantic nonsense into her head at Redmond.
I don't approve of them coeducational places and never did, that's what.
I don't believe," concluded Mrs. Lynde solemnly, "that the students at such colleges ever do much else than flirt." "They must study a little," said Marilla, with a smile. "Precious little," sniffed Mrs. Rachel.
However, I think Anne will. She never was flirtatious.
But she doesn't appreciate Gilbert at his full value, that's what.
Charlie Sloane is wild about her, too, but I'd never advise her to marry a Sloane.
The Sloanes are good, honest, respectable people, of course.
But when all's said and done, they're _Sloanes_." Marilla nodded.
To an outsider, the statement that Sloanes were Sloanes might not be very illuminating, but she understood.
Beyond, the harvest hills were basking in an amber sunset radiance, under a pale, aerial sky of rose and blue.
The distant spruce groves were burnished bronze, and their long shadows barred the upland meadows.
It seems to me that the little girls Diana and I used to be play here still, and sit by the Dryad's Bubble in the twilights, trysting with the ghosts.
Do you know, I can never go up this path in the dusk without feeling a bit of the old fright and shiver?
I'm not afraid of the White Lady or the headless man or the skeletons, but I wish I had never imagined that baby's ghost into existence.
How angry Marilla and Mrs. Barry were over that affair," concluded Anne, with reminiscent laughter. The woods around the head of the marsh were full of purple vistas, threaded with gossamers.
I was here one day last spring and found it, all white with blossom.
So I resolved I'd come again in the fall and see if it had been apples.
See, it's loaded. They look good, too-tawny as russets but with a dusky red cheek.
Most wild seedlings are green and uninviting." "I suppose it sprang years ago from some chance-sown seed," said Anne dreamily.
And how it has grown and flourished and held its own here all alone among aliens, the brave determined thing!" "Here's a fallen tree with a cushion of moss.
Sit down, Anne-it will serve for a woodland throne.
I'll climb for some apples.
They all grow high-the tree had to reach up to the sunlight." The apples proved to be delicious.
But it's time we were going home.
See, it was twilight three minutes ago and now it's moonlight.
What a pity we couldn't have caught the moment of transformation.
But such moments never are caught, I suppose." "Let's go back around the marsh and home by way of Lover's Lane.
Do you feel as disgruntled now as when you started out, Anne?" "Not I.
Those apples have been as manna to a hungry soul.
I feel that I shall love Redmond and have a splendid four years there." "And after those four years-what?" "Oh, there's another bend in the road at their end," answered Anne lightly.
I've no idea what may be around it-I don't want to have.
It's nicer not to know." Lover's Lane was a dear place that night, still and mysteriously dim in the pale radiance of the moonlight.
Anne had hoped for a fine day.
Diana was to drive her to the station and they wanted this, their last drive together for some time, to be a pleasant one.
But when Anne went to bed Sunday night the east wind was moaning around Green Gables with an ominous prophecy which was fulfilled in the morning.
Anne awoke to find raindrops pattering against her window and shadowing the pond's gray surface with widening rings; hills and sea were hidden in mist, and the whole world seemed dim and dreary.
Anne dressed in the cheerless gray dawn, for an early start was necessary to catch the boat train; she struggled against the tears that _would_ well up in her eyes in spite of herself.
She was leaving the home that was so dear to her, and something told her that she was leaving it forever, save as a holiday refuge.
Things would never be the same again; coming back for vacations would not be living there.
Could she ever be really happy anywhere else? Breakfast at Green Gables that morning was a rather doleful meal.
Davy, for the first time in his life probably, could not eat, but blubbered shamelessly over his porridge.
Nobody else seemed to have much appetite, save Dora, who tucked away her rations comfortably.
Dora, like the immortal and most prudent Charlotte, who "went on cutting bread and butter" when her frenzied lover's body had been carried past on a shutter, was one of those fortunate creatures who are seldom disturbed by anything.
Even at eight it took a great deal to ruffle Dora's placidity.
She was sorry Anne was going away, of course, but was that any reason why she should fail to appreciate a poached egg on toast?
And, seeing that Davy could not eat his, Dora ate it for him. Promptly on time Diana appeared with horse and buggy, her rosy face glowing above her raincoat.
The good-byes had to be said then somehow. Mrs. Lynde came in from her quarters to give Anne a hearty embrace and warn her to be careful of her health, whatever she did.
Marilla, brusque and tearless, pecked Anne's cheek and said she supposed they'd hear from her when she got settled.
A casual observer might have concluded that Anne's going mattered very little to her-unless said observer had happened to get a good look in her eyes.
Dora kissed Anne primly and squeezed out two decorous little tears; but Davy, who had been crying on the back porch step ever since they rose from the table, refused to say good-bye at all.
When he saw Anne coming towards him he sprang to his feet, bolted up the back stairs, and hid in a clothes closet, out of which he would not come.
Charlie and Gilbert were on the station platform when they reached it, and the train was whistling.
Anne had just time to get her ticket and trunk check, say a hurried farewell to Diana, and hasten on board.
She wished she were going back with Diana to Avonlea; she knew she was going to die of homesickness.
And oh, if only that dismal rain would stop pouring down as if the whole world were weeping over summer vanished and joys departed!
Even Gilbert's presence brought her no comfort, for Charlie Sloane was there, too, and Sloanishness could be tolerated only in fine weather.
It was absolutely insufferable in rain. But when the boat steamed out of Charlottetown harbor things took a turn for the better.
Nova Scotia is that, I suppose.
But one's native shore is the land one loves the best, and that's good old P.E.I. for me.
I can't believe I didn't always live here.
Those eleven years before I came seem like a bad dream.
It's seven years since I crossed on this boat-the evening Mrs. Spencer brought me over from Hopetown.
I can see myself, in that dreadful old wincey dress and faded sailor hat, exploring decks and cabins with enraptured curiosity.
It was a fine evening; and how those red Island shores did gleam in the sunshine.
Now I'm crossing the strait again.
Oh, Gilbert, I do hope I'll like Redmond and Kingsport, but I'm sure I won't!" "Where's all your philosophy gone, Anne?" "It's all submerged under a great, swamping wave of loneliness and homesickness.
I've longed for three years to go to Redmond-and now I'm going-and I wish I weren't!
I shall be cheerful and philosophical again after I have just one good cry.
I _must_ have that, 'as a went'-and I'll have to wait until I get into my boardinghouse bed tonight, wherever it may be, before I can have it.
Then Anne will be herself again.
I wonder if Davy has come out of the closet yet." It was nine that night when their train reached Kingsport, and they found themselves in the blue-white glare of the crowded station.
Anne felt horribly bewildered, but a moment later she was seized by Priscilla Grant, who had come to Kingsport on Saturday. "Here you are, beloved!
And I suppose you're as tired as I was when I got here Saturday night." "Tired!
Priscilla, don't talk of it.
I'm tired, and green, and provincial, and only about ten years old.
For pity's sake take your poor, broken-down chum to some place where she can hear herself think." "I'll take you right up to our boardinghouse.
I've a cab ready outside." "It's such a blessing you're here, Prissy.
If you weren't I think I should just sit down on my suitcase, here and now, and weep bitter tears.
What a comfort one familiar face is in a howling wilderness of strangers!" "Is that Gilbert Blythe over there, Anne?
How he has grown up this past year!
He was only a schoolboy when I taught in Carmody.
And of course that's Charlie Sloane. _He_ hasn't changed-couldn't!
He looked just like that when he was born, and he'll look like that when he's eighty. This way, dear.
We'll be home in twenty minutes." "Home!" groaned Anne.
You mean we'll be in some horrible boardinghouse, in a still more horrible hall bedroom, looking out on a dingy back yard." "It isn't a horrible boardinghouse, Anne-girl.
Hop in-the driver will get your trunk.
Oh, yes, the boardinghouse-it's really a very nice place of its kind, as you'll admit tomorrow morning when a good night's sleep has turned your blues rosy pink.
It's a big, old-fashioned, gray stone house on St. John Street, just a nice little constitutional from Redmond.
It used to be the 'residence' of great folk, but fashion has deserted St. John Street and its houses only dream now of better days.
They're so big that people living in them have to take boarders just to fill up.
At least, that is the reason our landladies are very anxious to impress on us.
They're delicious, Anne-our landladies, I mean." "How many are there?" "Two.
Miss Hannah Harvey and Miss Ada Harvey.
They were born twins about fifty years ago." "I can't get away from twins, it seems," smiled Anne.
Wherever I go they confront me." "Oh, they're not twins now, dear.
After they reached the age of thirty they never were twins again.
Miss Hannah has grown old, not too gracefully, and Miss Ada has stayed thirty, less gracefully still.
As for our rooms, I admit they are hall bedrooms, and mine does look out on the back yard.
Your room is a front one and looks out on Old St. John's graveyard, which is just across the street." "That sounds gruesome," shivered Anne.
I think I'd rather have the back yard view." "Oh, no, you wouldn't.
Old St. John's is a darling place. It's been a graveyard so long that it's ceased to be one and has become one of the sights of Kingsport.
I was all through it yesterday for a pleasure exertion.
There's a big stone wall and a row of enormous trees all around it, and rows of trees all through it, and the queerest old tombstones, with the queerest and quaintest inscriptions.
You'll go there to study, Anne, see if you don't.
Of course, nobody is ever buried there now.
But a few years ago they put up a beautiful monument to the memory of Nova Scotian soldiers who fell in the Crimean War.
It is just opposite the entrance gates and there's 'scope for imagination' in it, as you used to say.
Here's your trunk at last-and the boys coming to say good night.
Must I really shake hands with Charlie Sloane, Anne?
His hands are always so cold and fishy-feeling.
We must ask them to call occasionally.
I promised to see to it; but goodness knows where else they _can_ sit, unless they sit on the floor, for there are cushions on _everything_.
Miss Ada even has an elaborate Battenburg one on top of the piano." Anne was laughing by this time.
Priscilla's gay chatter had the intended effect of cheering her up; homesickness vanished for the time being, and did not even return in full force when she finally found herself alone in her little bedroom.
She went to her window and looked out.
The street below was dim and quiet.
Across it the moon was shining above the trees in Old St. John's, just behind the great dark head of the lion on the monument.
Anne wondered if it could have been only that morning that she had left Green Gables.
She had the sense of a long passage of time which one day of change and travel gives. "I suppose that very moon is looking down on Green Gables now," she mused.
But I won't think about it-that way homesickness lies.
I'm not even going to have my good cry.
For the most part no great art or skill was lavished on those old tombstones.
The larger number are of roughly chiselled brown or gray native stone, and only in a few cases is there any attempt at ornamentation.
Some are adorned with skull and cross-bones, and this grizzly decoration is frequently coupled with a cherub's head.
Many are prostrate and in ruins.
Into almost all Time's tooth has been gnawing, until some inscriptions have been completely effaced, and others can only be deciphered with difficulty.
She and Priscilla had gone to Redmond in the forenoon and registered as students, after which there was nothing more to do that day.
At least, they'd be familiar eyes." "Oh," sighed Anne.
I can't describe how I felt when I was standing there, waiting my turn to be registered-as insignificant as the teeniest drop in a most enormous bucket.
I knew I would go down to my grave unwept, unhonored and unsung." "Wait till next year," comforted Priscilla.
Then we'll be able to look as bored and sophisticated as any Sophomore of them all.
No doubt it is rather dreadful to feel insignificant; but I think it's better than to feel as big and awkward as I did-as if I were sprawled all over Redmond.
That's how I felt-I suppose because I was a good two inches taller than any one else in the crowd.
When we left Queen's we knew everybody and had a place of our own.
I suppose we have been unconsciously expecting to take life up at Redmond just where we left off at Queen's, and now we feel as if the ground had slipped from under our feet.
I'm thankful that neither Mrs. Lynde nor Mrs. Elisha Wright know, or ever will know, my state of mind at present.
They would exult in saying 'I told you so,' and be convinced it was the beginning of the end.
Whereas it is just the end of the beginning." "Exactly.
In a little while we'll be acclimated and acquainted, and all will be well.
Anne, did you notice the girl who stood alone just outside the door of the coeds' dressing room all the morning-the pretty one with the brown eyes and crooked mouth?" "Yes, I did.
I noticed her particularly because she seemed the only creature there who _looked_ as lonely and friendless as I _felt_.
I had _you_, but she had no one." "I think she felt pretty all-by-herselfish, too.
Several times I saw her make a motion as if to cross over to us, but she never did it-too shy, I suppose.
I wished she would come.
If I hadn't felt so much like the aforesaid elephant I'd have gone to her.
But I couldn't lumber across that big hall with all those boys howling on the stairs.
She was the prettiest freshette I saw today, but probably favor is deceitful and even beauty is vain on your first day at Redmond," concluded Priscilla with a laugh. "I'm going across to Old St. John's after lunch," said Anne.
I don't know that a graveyard is a very good place to go to get cheered up, but it seems the only get-at-able place where there are trees, and trees I must have.
They found themselves in a dim, cool, green place where winds were fond of purring.
He served in the army till the peace of 1763, when he retired from bad health.
He was a brave officer, the best of husbands, the best of fathers, the best of friends.
He died October 29th, 1792, aged 84 years.
There's an epitaph for you, Prissy.
There is certainly some 'scope for imagination' in it.
How full such a life must have been of adventure!
And as for his personal qualities, I'm sure human eulogy couldn't go further.
I wonder if they told him he was all those best things while he was alive." "Here's another," said Priscilla.
Listen- 'To the memory of Alexander Ross, who died on the 22nd of September, 1840, aged 43 years.
This is raised as a tribute of affection by one whom he served so faithfully for 27 years that he was regarded as a friend, deserving the fullest confidence and attachment.'" "A very good epitaph," commented Anne thoughtfully.
I wouldn't wish a better.
We are all servants of some sort, and if the fact that we are faithful can be truthfully inscribed on our tombstones nothing more need be added.
Here's a sorrowful little gray stone, Prissy-'to the memory of a favorite child.
And here is another 'erected to the memory of one who is buried elsewhere.
I wonder where that unknown grave is. Really, Pris, the graveyards of today will never be as interesting as this.
You were right-I shall come here often.
I see we're not alone here-there's a girl down at the end of this avenue." "Yes, and I believe it's the very girl we saw at Redmond this morning. I've been watching her for five minutes.
She has started to come up the avenue exactly half a dozen times, and half a dozen times has she turned and gone back.
Either she's dreadfully shy or she has got something on her conscience.
Let's go and meet her.
It's easier to get acquainted in a graveyard than at Redmond, I believe." They walked down the long grassy arcade towards the stranger, who was sitting on a gray slab under an enormous willow.
She was certainly very pretty, with a vivid, irregular, bewitching type of prettiness.
There was a gloss as of brown nuts on her satin-smooth hair and a soft, ripe glow on her round cheeks.
For a moment both girls felt like turning back. But they had already stopped and turned towards the gray slab.
It was too late to retreat, for the brown-eyed girl had evidently concluded that they were coming to speak to her.
I saw you at Redmond this morning.
Say, wasn't it _awful_ there?
For the time I wished I had stayed home and got married." Anne and Priscilla both broke into unconstrained laughter at this unexpected conclusion.
The brown-eyed girl laughed, too. "I really did.
I _could_ have, you know.
Come, let's all sit down on this gravestone and get acquainted.
I know we're going to adore each other-I knew it as soon as I saw you at Redmond this morning.
I wanted so much to go right over and hug you both." "Why didn't you?" asked Priscilla. "Because I simply couldn't make up my mind to do it.
I never can make up my mind about anything myself-I'm always afflicted with indecision. Just as soon as I decide to do something I feel in my bones that another course would be the correct one.
It's a dreadful misfortune, but I was born that way, and there is no use in blaming me for it, as some people do.
So I couldn't make up my mind to go and speak to you, much as I wanted to." "We thought you were too shy," said Anne. "No, no, dear.
Shyness isn't among the many failings-or virtues-of Philippa Gordon-Phil for short.
Do call me Phil right off.
Now, what are your handles?" "She's Priscilla Grant," said Anne, pointing. "And _she's_ Anne Shirley," said Priscilla, pointing in turn. "And we're from the Island," said both together. "I hail from Bolingbroke, Nova Scotia," said Philippa. "Bolingbroke!" exclaimed Anne.
Why, that is where I was born." "Do you really mean it?
Why, that makes you a Bluenose after all." "No, it doesn't," retorted Anne.
Wasn't it Dan O'Connell who said that if a man was born in a stable it didn't make him a horse?
I'm Island to the core." "Well, I'm glad you were born in Bolingbroke anyway.
It makes us kind of neighbors, doesn't it?
And I like that, because when I tell you secrets it won't be as if I were telling them to a stranger.
I have to tell them.
I can't keep secrets-it's no use to try.
That's my worst failing-that, and indecision, as aforesaid.
Would you believe it?-it took me half an hour to decide which hat to wear when I was coming here-_here_, to a graveyard!
At first I inclined to my brown one with the feather; but as soon as I put it on I thought this pink one with the floppy brim would be more becoming.
When I got _it_ pinned in place I liked the brown one better.
At last I put them close together on the bed, shut my eyes, and jabbed with a hat pin.
The pin speared the pink one, so I put it on.
It is becoming, isn't it?
Tell me, what do you think of my looks?" At this naive demand, made in a perfectly serious tone, Priscilla laughed again.
I can't decide even on my own appearance.
Just as soon as I've decided that I'm pretty I begin to feel miserably that I'm not.
Besides, have a horrible old great-aunt who is always saying to me, with a mournful sigh, 'You were such a pretty baby.
It's strange how children change when they grow up.
I adore aunts, but I detest great-aunts.
Please tell me quite often that I am pretty, if you don't mind.
I feel so much more comfortable when I can believe I'm pretty.
I know you think I'm abominably vain, but I'm not.
There really isn't one spark of vanity in me.
And I'm never a bit grudging about paying compliments to other girls when they deserve them.
I'm so glad I know you folks.
I came up on Saturday and I've nearly died of homesickness ever since.
It's a horrible feeling, isn't it?
In Bolingbroke I'm an important personage, and in Kingsport I'm just nobody!
There were times when I could feel my soul turning a delicate blue.
Where do you hang out?" "Thirty-eight St. John's Street." "Better and better.
Why, I'm just around the corner on Wallace Street. I don't like my boardinghouse, though.
It's bleak and lonesome, and my room looks out on such an unholy back yard.
It's the ugliest place in the world.
As for cats-well, surely _all_ the Kingsport cats can't congregate there at night, but half of them must.
I adore cats on hearth rugs, snoozing before nice, friendly fires, but cats in back yards at midnight are totally different animals.
The first night I was here I cried all night, and so did the cats.
You should have seen my nose in the morning.
It was father who wanted me to come here.
His heart was set on it-why, I don't know.
It seems perfectly ridiculous to think of me studying for a B.A. degree, doesn't it?
Not but what I can do it, all right.
I have heaps of brains." "Oh!" said Priscilla vaguely. "Yes.
But it's such hard work to use them.
And B.A.'s are such learned, dignified, wise, solemn creatures-they must be.
No, _I_ didn't want to come to Redmond.
I did it just to oblige father.
He _is_ such a duck. Besides, I knew if I stayed home I'd have to get married.
Mother wanted that-wanted it decidedly.
Mother has plenty of decision.
But I really hated the thought of being married for a few years yet.
I want to have heaps of fun before I settle down.
And, ridiculous as the idea of my being a B.A. is, the idea of my being an old married woman is still more absurd, isn't it?
No, I concluded I would rather come to Redmond than be married.
Besides, how could I ever have made up my mind which man to marry?" "Were there so many?" laughed Anne. "Heaps.
The boys like me awfully-they really do.
But there were only two that mattered.
The rest were all too young and too poor.
I must marry a rich man, you know." "Why must you?" "Honey, you couldn't imagine _me_ being a poor man's wife, could you?
I can't do a single useful thing, and I am _very_ extravagant.
Oh, no, my husband must have heaps of money.
It was not easy for her to speak to a stranger of the great mystery and transformation of life. "Goodness, no. _I_ couldn't love anybody.
Besides I wouldn't want to.
Being in love makes you a perfect slave, _I_ think. And it would give a man such power to hurt you.
No, no, Alec and Alonzo are two dear boys, and I like them both so much that I really don't know which I like the better.
Alec is the best looking, of course, and I simply couldn't marry a man who wasn't handsome.
He is good-tempered too, and has lovely, curly, black hair.
He's rather too perfect-I don't believe I'd like a perfect husband-somebody I could never find fault with." "Then why not marry Alonzo?" asked Priscilla gravely. "Think of marrying a name like Alonzo!" said Phil dolefully.
I don't believe I could endure it.
But he has a classic nose, and it _would_ be a comfort to have a nose in the family that could be depended on.
I can't depend on mine.
So far, it takes after the Gordon pattern, but I'm so afraid it will develop Byrne tendencies as I grow older.
I examine it every day anxiously to make sure it's still Gordon.
Mother was a Byrne and has the Byrne nose in the Byrnest degree.
Wait till you see it.
Your nose is awfully nice, Anne Shirley. Alonzo's nose nearly turned the balance in his favor.
But _Alonzo!_ No, I couldn't decide.
I told them they'd have to wait till I could make up my mind.
They're quite willing to wait.
They both worship me, you know.
Meanwhile, I intend to have a good time.
I expect I shall have heaps of beaux at Redmond.
I can't be happy unless I have, you know.
But don't you think the freshmen are fearfully homely?
I saw only one really handsome fellow among them.
He went away before you came.
I heard his chum call him Gilbert.
His chum had eyes that stuck out _that far_.
But you're not going yet, girls?
Don't go yet." "I think we must," said Anne, rather coldly.
It's getting late, and I've some work to do." "But you'll both come to see me, won't you?" asked Philippa, getting up and putting an arm around each.
And let me come to see you.
I want to be chummy with you.
I've taken such a fancy to you both.
And I haven't quite disgusted you with my frivolity, have I?" "Not quite," laughed Anne, responding to Phil's squeeze, with a return of cordiality. "Because I'm not half so silly as I seem on the surface, you know.
You just accept Philippa Gordon, as the Lord made her, with all her faults, and I believe you'll come to like her.
Isn't this graveyard a sweet place?
I'd love to be buried here.
Here's a grave I didn't see before-this one in the iron railing-oh, girls, look, see-the stone says it's the grave of a middy who was killed in the fight between the Shannon and the Chesapeake.
Just fancy!" Anne paused by the railing and looked at the worn stone, her pulses thrilling with sudden excitement.
The old graveyard, with its over-arching trees and long aisles of shadows, faded from her sight. Instead, she saw the Kingsport Harbor of nearly a century agone.
Out of the mist came slowly a great frigate, brilliant with "the meteor flag of England.
This grave seems to bring it so near and make it so real.
This poor little middy was only eighteen.
He 'died of desperate wounds received in gallant action'-so reads his epitaph.
There is something very lovable about her, in spite of all her nonsense.
I believe, as she says herself, that she isn't half as silly as she sounds.
She's a dear, kissable baby-and I don't know that she'll ever really grow up." "I like her, too," said Priscilla, decidedly.
She talks as much about boys as Ruby Gillis does.
But it always enrages or sickens me to hear Ruby, whereas I just wanted to laugh good-naturedly at Phil.
Now, what is the why of that?" "There is a difference," said Anne meditatively.
I think it's because Ruby is really so _conscious_ of boys.
She plays at love and love-making.
She really looks upon boys as good comrades, and she is pleased when she has dozens of them tagging round, simply because she likes to be popular and to be thought popular.
Even Alex and Alonzo-I'll never be able to think of those two names separately after this-are to her just two playfellows who want her to play with them all their lives.
I'm glad we met her, and I'm glad we went to Old St. John's.
I believe I've put forth a tiny soul-root into Kingsport soil this afternoon.
I hate to feel transplanted." Chapter V Letters from Home For the next three weeks Anne and Priscilla continued to feel as strangers in a strange land.
Then, suddenly, everything seemed to fall into focus-Redmond, professors, classes, students, studies, social doings.
Life became homogeneous again, instead of being made up of detached fragments.
He was also invited to join the "Lambs"-Redmondese for Lamba Theta-a compliment rarely paid to a Freshman.
He'd look exactly like his old Grandmother Sloane.
Gilbert, now, looked as much like a man in them as in his own proper habiliments." Anne and Priscilla found themselves in the thick of the social life of Redmond.
That this came about so speedily was due in great measure to Philippa Gordon.
Philippa was the daughter of a rich and well-known man, and belonged to an old and exclusive "Bluenose" family.
This, combined with her beauty and charm-a charm acknowledged by all who met her-promptly opened the gates of all cliques, clubs and classes in Redmond to her; and where she went Anne and Priscilla went, too.
Phil "adored" Anne and Priscilla, especially Anne.
She was a loyal little soul, crystal-free from any form of snobbishness.
Love me, love my friends" seemed to be her unconscious motto.
Yet, as she said herself, she had "heaps" of brains.
When or where she found time to study was a mystery, for she seemed always in demand for some kind of "fun," and her home evenings were crowded with callers.
She had all the "beaux" that heart could desire, for nine-tenths of the Freshmen and a big fraction of all the other classes were rivals for her smiles.
I write them both every week and tell them all about my young men here.
I'm sure it must amuse them.
But, of course, the one I like best I can't get.
Gilbert Blythe won't take any notice of me, except to look at me as if I were a nice little kitten he'd like to pat.
Too well I know the reason.
I owe you a grudge, Queen Anne.
I really ought to hate you and instead I love you madly, and I'm miserable if I don't see you every day.
You're different from any girl I ever knew before.
When you look at me in a certain way I feel what an insignificant, frivolous little beast I am, and I long to be better and wiser and stronger.
And then I make good resolutions; but the first nice-looking mannie who comes my way knocks them all out of my head. Isn't college life magnificent?
It's so funny to think I hated it that first day.
But if I hadn't I might never got really acquainted with you.
Anne, please tell me over again that you like me a little bit.
Even the grumpy old professor of Mathematics, who detested coeds, and had bitterly opposed their admission to Redmond, couldn't floor her.
She led the freshettes everywhere, except in English, where Anne Shirley left her far behind.
Anne herself found the studies of her Freshman year very easy, thanks in great part to the steady work she and Gilbert had put in during those two past years in Avonlea.
This left her more time for a social life which she thoroughly enjoyed.
But never for a moment did she forget Avonlea and the friends there.
To her, the happiest moments in each week were those in which letters came from home.
The first batch contained six letters, from Jane Andrews, Ruby Gillis, Diana Barry, Marilla, Mrs. Lynde and Davy.
Jane's was a copperplate production, with every "t" nicely crossed and every "i" precisely dotted, and not an interesting sentence in it.
She never mentioned the school, concerning which Anne was avid to hear; she never answered one of the questions Anne had asked in her letter.
Ruby Gillis wrote a gushing epistle deploring Anne's absence, assuring her she was horribly missed in everything, asking what the Redmond "fellows" were like, and filling the rest with accounts of her own harrowing experiences with her numerous admirers.
It was a silly, harmless letter, and Anne would have laughed over it had it not been for the postscript.
Gilbert seems to be enjoying Redmond, judging from his letters," wrote Ruby.
I don't think Charlie is so stuck on it." So Gilbert was writing to Ruby!
He had a perfect right to, of course.
Anne did not know that Ruby had written the first letter and that Gilbert had answered it from mere courtesy.
She tossed Ruby's letter aside contemptuously.
Marilla's was a rather prim and colorless epistle, severely innocent of gossip or emotion.
Yet somehow it conveyed to Anne a whiff of the wholesome, simple life at Green Gables, with its savor of ancient peace, and the steadfast abiding love that was there for her.
Mrs. Lynde's letter was full of church news.
Having broken up housekeeping, Mrs. Lynde had more time than ever to devote to church affairs and had flung herself into them heart and soul.
She was at present much worked up over the poor "supplies" they were having in the vacant Avonlea pulpit. "I don't believe any but fools enter the ministry nowadays," she wrote bitterly.
Such candidates as they have sent us, and such stuff as they preach!
Half of it ain't true, and, what's worse, it ain't sound doctrine.
The one we have now is the worst of the lot.
He mostly takes a text and preaches about something else.
And he says he doesn't believe all the heathen will be eternally lost.
If they won't all the money we've been giving to Foreign Missions will be clean wasted, that's what!
Last Sunday night he announced that next Sunday he'd preach on the axe-head that swam.
I think he'd better confine himself to the Bible and leave sensational subjects alone.
Things have come to a pretty pass if a minister can't find enough in Holy Writ to preach about, that's what.
What church do you attend, Anne?
I hope you go regularly.
People are apt to get so careless about church-going away from home, and I understand college students are great sinners in this respect.
I'm told many of them actually study their lessons on Sunday. I hope you'll never sink that low, Anne.
Remember how you were brought up.
And be very careful what friends you make.
You never know what sort of creatures are in them colleges.
Outwardly they may be as whited sepulchers and inwardly as ravening wolves, that's what.
You'd better not have anything to say to any young man who isn't from the Island. "I forgot to tell you what happened the day the minister called here. It was the funniest thing I ever saw.
I said to Marilla, 'If Anne had been here wouldn't she have had a laugh?
You know he's a very short, fat little man with bow legs.
It made one wild bolt to get out, but there was nowhere to bolt to except between them bow legs.
So there it went, and, being as it was so big and the minister so little, it took him clean off his feet and carried him away.
His hat went one way and his cane another, just as Marilla and I got to the door.
I'll never forget the look of him.
And that poor pig was near scared to death.
I'll never be able to read that account in the Bible of the swine that rushed madly down the steep place into the sea without seeing Mr. Harrison's pig careering down the hill with that minister.
I guess the pig thought he had the Old Boy on his back instead of inside of him.
I was thankful the twins weren't about.
It wouldn't have been the right thing for them to have seen a minister in such an undignified predicament.
Just before they got to the brook the minister jumped off or fell off.
The pig rushed through the brook like mad and up through the woods.
Marilla and I run down and helped the minister get up and brush his coat.
He wasn't hurt, but he was mad.
He seemed to hold Marilla and me responsible for it all, though we told him the pig didn't belong to us, and had been pestering us all summer.
Besides, what did he come to the back door for?
You'd never have caught Mr. Allan doing that.
It'll be a long time before we get a man like Mr. Allan.
But it's an ill wind that blows no good.
We've never seen hoof or hair of that pig since, and it's my belief we never will. "Things is pretty quiet in Avonlea.
I don't find Green Gables as lonesome as I expected.
I think I'll start another cotton warp quilt this winter.
Mrs. Silas Sloane has a handsome new apple-leaf pattern. "When I feel that I must have some excitement I read the murder trials in that Boston paper my niece sends me.
I never used to do it, but they're real interesting.
The States must be an awful place.
I hope you'll never go there, Anne.
But the way girls roam over the earth now is something terrible.
It always makes me think of Satan in the Book of Job, going to and fro and walking up and down.
I don't believe the Lord ever intended it, that's what. "Davy has been pretty good since you went away.
One day he was bad and Marilla punished him by making him wear Dora's apron all day, and then he went and cut all Dora's aprons up.
I spanked him for that and then he went and chased my rooster to death. "The MacPhersons have moved down to my place.
She's a great housekeeper and very particular.
She's rooted all my June lilies up because she says they make a garden look so untidy.
Thomas set them lilies out when we were married.
Her husband seems a nice sort of a man, but she can't get over being an old maid, that's what. "Don't study too hard, and be sure and put your winter underclothes on as soon as the weather gets cool.
Its awful lonesome here without you but grate fun in school.
Jane andrews is crosser than you.
I scared mrs. lynde with a jacky lantern last nite.
She was offel mad and she was mad cause I chased her old rooster round the yard till he fell down ded.
I didn't mean to make him fall down ded.
What made him die, anne, I want to know. mrs. lynde threw him into the pig pen she mite of sold him to mr. blair. mr. blair is giving 50 sense apeace for good ded roosters now.
I herd mrs. lynde asking the minister to pray for her.
What did she do that was so bad, anne, I want to know.
I've got a kite with a magnificent tail, anne.
Milty bolter told me a grate story in school yesterday. it is troo. old Joe Mosey and Leon were playing cards one nite last week in the woods.
The cards were on a stump and a big black man bigger than the trees come along and grabbed the cards and the stump and disapered with a noys like thunder.
Ill bet they were skared.
Milty says the black man was the old harry. was he, anne, I want to know.
Mr. kimball over at spenservale is very sick and will have to go to the hospitable. please excuse me while I ask marilla if thats spelled rite.
Marilla says its the silem he has to go to not the other place.
He thinks he has a snake inside of him. whats it like to have a snake inside of you, anne.
I ought to stay in and finish my blouse.
But I couldn't sew on a day like this.
There's something in the air that gets into my blood and makes a sort of glory in my soul.
My fingers would twitch and I'd sew a crooked seam.
Besides, I've been feeling a little blue-just a pale, elusive azure.
It isn't serious enough for anything darker.
I wrote Alec and Alonzo last week.
I put the letters into envelopes and addressed them, but I didn't seal them up.
That evening something funny happened.
That is, Alec would think it funny, but Alonzo wouldn't be likely to.
I was in a hurry, so I snatched Alec's letter-as I thought-out of the envelope and scribbled down a postscript.
Then I mailed both letters.
I got Alonzo's reply this morning.
Girls, I had put that postscript to his letter and he was furious.
Of course he'll get over it-and I don't care if he doesn't-but it spoiled my day.
So I thought I'd come to you darlings to get cheered up.
After the football season opens I won't have any spare Saturday afternoons.
I've got the most gorgeous cap and sweater striped in Redmond colors to wear to the games.
To be sure, a little way off I'll look like a walking barber's pole.
Do you know that that Gilbert of yours has been elected Captain of the Freshman football team?" "Yes, he told us so last evening," said Priscilla, seeing that outraged Anne would not answer.
He and Charlie were down.
We knew they were coming, so we painstakingly put out of sight or out of reach all Miss Ada's cushions.
That very elaborate one with the raised embroidery I dropped on the floor in the corner behind the chair it was on.
I thought it would be safe there.
Charlie Sloane made for that chair, noticed the cushion behind it, solemnly fished it up, and sat on it the whole evening.
Such a wreck of a cushion as it was!
Poor Miss Ada asked me today, still smiling, but oh, so reproachfully, why I had allowed it to be sat upon.
I told her I hadn't-that it was a matter of predestination coupled with inveterate Sloanishness and I wasn't a match for both combined." "Miss Ada's cushions are really getting on my nerves," said Anne.
She finished two new ones last week, stuffed and embroidered within an inch of their lives.
There being absolutely no other cushionless place to put them she stood them up against the wall on the stair landing.
They topple over half the time and if we come up or down the stairs in the dark we fall over them.
Last Sunday, when Dr. Davis prayed for all those exposed to the perils of the sea, I added in thought 'and for all those who live in houses where cushions are loved not wisely but too well!
There! we're ready, and I see the boys coming through Old St. John's.
Do you cast in your lot with us, Phil?" "I'll go, if I can walk with Priscilla and Charlie.
That will be a bearable degree of gooseberry.
That Gilbert of yours is a darling, Anne, but why does he go around so much with Goggle-eyes?" Anne stiffened.
She had no great liking for Charlie Sloane; but he was of Avonlea, so no outsider had any business to laugh at him. "Charlie and Gilbert have always been friends," she said coldly. "Charlie is a nice boy.
He's not to blame for his eyes." "Don't tell me that!
He must have done something dreadful in a previous existence to be punished with such eyes.
Pris and I are going to have such sport with him this afternoon.
We'll make fun of him to his face and he'll never know it." Doubtless, "the abandoned P's," as Anne called them, did carry out their amiable intentions.
But Sloane was blissfully ignorant; he thought he was quite a fine fellow to be walking with two such coeds, especially Philippa Gordon, the class beauty and belle.
It must surely impress Anne.
How I love the pines!
They seem to strike their roots deep into the romance of all the ages.
It is so comforting to creep away now and then for a good talk with them.
Life seems like a cup of glory held to my lips just now.
But there must be some bitterness in it-there is in every cup.
I shall taste mine some day.
Well, I hope I shall be strong and brave to meet it.
And I hope it won't be through my own fault that it will come.
Do you remember what Dr. Davis said last Sunday evening-that the sorrows God sent us brought comfort and strength with them, while the sorrows we brought on ourselves, through folly or wickedness, were by far the hardest to bear?
But we mustn't talk of sorrow on an afternoon like this.
I'm sure no life can be properly developed and rounded out without some trial and sorrow-though I suppose it is only when we are pretty comfortable that we admit it.
Come-the others have got to the pavilion and are beckoning to us." They all sat down in the little pavilion to watch an autumn sunset of deep red fire and pallid gold.
To their left lay Kingsport, its roofs and spires dim in their shroud of violet smoke.
To their right lay the harbor, taking on tints of rose and copper as it stretched out into the sunset.
Before them the water shimmered, satin smooth and silver gray, and beyond, clean shaven William's Island loomed out of the mist, guarding the town like a sturdy bulldog.
Its lighthouse beacon flared through the mist like a baleful star, and was answered by another in the far horizon. "Did you ever see such a strong-looking place?" asked Philippa.
I don't want William's Island especially, but I'm sure I couldn't get it if I did.
Look at that sentry on the summit of the fort, right beside the flag.
Doesn't he look as if he had stepped out of a romance?" "Speaking of romance," said Priscilla, "we've been looking for heather-but, of course, we couldn't find any.
It's too late in the season, I suppose." "Heather!" exclaimed Anne.
Heather doesn't grow in America, does it?" "There are just two patches of it in the whole continent," said Phil, "one right here in the park, and one somewhere else in Nova Scotia, I forget where.
We can see all 'the handsome houses where the wealthy nobles dwell.
Spofford Avenue is the finest residential street in Kingsport.
Nobody can build on it unless he's a millionaire." "Oh, do," said Phil.
There's a perfectly killing little place I want to show you, Anne. _it_ wasn't built by a millionaire.
It's the first place after you leave the park, and must have grown while Spofford Avenue was still a country road.
It _did_ grow-it wasn't built!
I don't care for the houses on the Avenue.
They're too brand new and plateglassy.
But this little spot is a dream-and its name-but wait till you see it." They saw it as they walked up the pine-fringed hill from the park.
Just on the crest, where Spofford Avenue petered out into a plain road, was a little white frame house with groups of pines on either side of it, stretching their arms protectingly over its low roof.
It was covered with red and gold vines, through which its green-shuttered windows peeped.
Before it was a tiny garden, surrounded by a low stone wall. October though it was, the garden was still very sweet with dear, old-fashioned, unworldly flowers and shrubs-sweet may, southern-wood, lemon verbena, alyssum, petunias, marigolds and chrysanthemums.
A tiny brick wall, in herring-bone pattern, led from the gate to the front porch.
The whole place might have been transplanted from some remote country village; yet there was something about it that made its nearest neighbor, the big lawn-encircled palace of a tobacco king, look exceedingly crude and showy and ill-bred by contrast.
As Phil said, it was the difference between being born and being made. "It's the dearest place I ever saw," said Anne delightedly.
It gives me one of my old, delightful funny aches.
It's dearer and quainter than even Miss Lavendar's stone house." "It's the name I want you to notice especially," said Phil.
Look-in white letters, around the archway over the gate.
Especially on this Avenue of Pinehursts and Elmwolds and Cedarcrofts?
Patty's Place,' if you please!
I adore it." "Have you any idea who Patty is?" asked Priscilla. "Patty Spofford is the name of the old lady who owns it, I've discovered.
She lives there with her niece, and they've lived there for hundreds of years, more or less-maybe a little less, Anne.
Exaggeration is merely a flight of poetic fancy.
I understand that wealthy folk have tried to buy the lot time and again-it's really worth a small fortune now, you know-but 'Patty' won't sell upon any consideration.
And there's an apple orchard behind the house in place of a back yard-you'll see it when we get a little past-a real apple orchard on Spofford Avenue!" "I'm going to dream about 'Patty's Place' tonight," said Anne.
Why, I feel as if I belonged to it.
I wonder if, by any chance, we'll ever see the inside of it." "It isn't likely," said Priscilla. Anne smiled mysteriously. "No, it isn't likely.
But I believe it will happen.
Before they realized it the Redmond students found themselves in the grind of Christmas examinations, emerging therefrom more or less triumphantly.
And you, Phil, will be in Bolingbroke with Alec and Alonzo." "I'm longing to see them," admitted Phil, between the chocolate she was nibbling.
They really are such dear boys, you know.
There's to be no end of dances and drives and general jamborees.
I shall never forgive you, Queen Anne, for not coming home with me for the holidays." "'Never' means three days with you, Phil.
It was dear of you to ask me-and I'd love to go to Bolingbroke some day.
But I can't go this year-I _must_ go home.
You don't know how my heart longs for it." "You won't have much of a time," said Phil scornfully.
There'll be one or two quilting parties, I suppose; and all the old gossips will talk you over to your face and behind your back.
You'll die of lonesomeness, child." "In Avonlea?" said Anne, highly amused. "Now, if you'd come with me you'd have a perfectly gorgeous time. Bolingbroke would go wild over you, Queen Anne-your hair and your style and, oh, everything!
You'd be such a success-and I would bask in reflected glory-'not the rose but near the rose.
Do come, after all, Anne." "Your picture of social triumphs is quite fascinating, Phil, but I'll paint one to offset it.
I'm going home to an old country farmhouse, once green, rather faded now, set among leafless apple orchards.
There is a brook below and a December fir wood beyond, where I've heard harps swept by the fingers of rain and wind.
There is a pond nearby that will be gray and brooding now.
There will be two oldish ladies in the house, one tall and thin, one short and fat; and there will be two twins, one a perfect model, the other what Mrs. Lynde calls a 'holy terror.
There will be a little room upstairs over the porch, where old dreams hang thick, and a big, fat, glorious feather bed which will almost seem the height of luxury after a boardinghouse mattress.
Green Gables had a very festal appearance as they drove up the lane.
There was a light in every window, the glow breaking out through the darkness like flame-red blossoms swung against the dark background of the Haunted Wood.
And in the yard was a brave bonfire with two gay little figures dancing around it, one of which gave an unearthly yell as the buggy turned in under the poplars. "Davy means that for an Indian war-whoop," said Diana.
Mr. Harrison's hired boy taught it to him, and he's been practicing it up to welcome you with.
Mrs. Lynde says it has worn her nerves to a frazzle.
He creeps up behind her, you know, and then lets go.
He was determined to have a bonfire for you, too.
He's been piling up branches for a fortnight and pestering Marilla to be let pour some kerosene oil over it before setting it on fire.
Just let me show you how to poke it-see the sparks?
I did it for you, Anne, 'cause I was so glad you were coming home." The kitchen door opened and Marilla's spare form darkened against the inner light.
The love that Anne had told Phil was waiting for her surrounded her and enfolded her with its blessing and its sweetness.
Nothing, after all, could compare with old ties, old friends, and old Green Gables!
How starry Anne's eyes were as they sat down to the loaded supper table, how pink her cheeks, how silver-clear her laughter!
And Diana was going to stay all night, too.
How like the dear old times it was!
And the rose-bud tea-set graced the table!
With Marilla the force of nature could no further go. "I suppose you and Diana will now proceed to talk all night," said Marilla sarcastically, as the girls went upstairs.
Marilla was always sarcastic after any self-betrayal. "Yes," agreed Anne gaily, "but I'm going to put Davy to bed first.
He insists on that." "You bet," said Davy, as they went along the hall.
I want somebody to say my prayers to again.
It's no fun saying them alone." "You don't say them alone, Davy.
God is always with you to hear you." "Well, I can't see Him," objected Davy.
I want to pray to somebody I can see, but I _won't_ say them to Mrs. Lynde or Marilla, there now!" Nevertheless, when Davy was garbed in his gray flannel nighty, he did not seem in a hurry to begin.
I don't feel like praying after all.
I haven't felt like it for a week now.
But you get sorry, and that's worse.
You'll be awful sorry when I tell you this, Anne-and you'll be 'shamed of me, I s'pose." "Have you done something naughty, Davy, and is that why you can't say your prayers?" "No, I haven't done anything naughty-yet.
But I want to do it." "What is it, Davy?" "I-I want to say a bad word, Anne," blurted out Davy, with a desperate effort.
The next minute his face was burrowing against her. "Oh, Anne, I'll never say it again-never.
I'll never _want_ to say it again.
I knew it was bad, but I didn't s'pose it was so-so-I didn't s'pose it was like _that_." "No, I don't think you'll ever want to say it again, Davy-or think it, either.
And now do you feel as if you could say your prayers, Davy?" "Oh, yes," said Davy, eagerly wriggling down on his knees, "I can say them now all right.
They both looked as fresh and bright-eyed at breakfast as only youth can look after unlawful hours of revelry and confession.
Soon the far-away slopes and hills were dim and wraith-like through their gauzy scarfing, as if pale autumn had flung a misty bridal veil over her hair and was waiting for her wintry bridegroom.
So they had a white Christmas after all, and a very pleasant day it was.
I am sure Miss Lavendar is perfectly happy-I know it by the general tone of her letter-but there's a note from Charlotta the Fourth.
I think I'll get Diana to go over with me next week, and we can spend the evening with Theodora Dix.
I want to see Theodora.
By the way, is Ludovic Speed still going to see her?" "They say so," said Marilla, "and he's likely to continue it.
Folks have given up expecting that that courtship will ever arrive anywhere." "I'd hurry him up a bit, if I was Theodora, that's what," said Mrs. Lynde.
I do wish you had come with me to decide for me.
Some one will have to.
When I saw Alec my heart gave a great thump and I thought, 'He might be the right one.
And then, when Alonzo came, thump went my heart again.
So that's no guide, though it should be, according to all the novels I've ever read.
Now, Anne, _your_ heart wouldn't thump for anybody but the genuine Prince Charming, would it?
There must be something radically wrong with mine.
But I'm having a perfectly gorgeous time.
How I wish you were here!
It's snowing today, and I'm rapturous.
I was so afraid we'd have a green Christmas and I loathe them.
You know, when Christmas is a dirty grayey-browney affair, looking as if it had been left over a hundred years ago and had been in soak ever since, it is called a _green_ Christmas!
As Lord Dundreary says, 'there are thome thingth no fellow can underthtand.' "Anne, did you ever get on a street car and then discover that you hadn't any money with you to pay your fare?
I did, the other day.
I had a nickel with me when I got on the car.
I thought it was in the left pocket of my coat.
When I got settled down comfortably I felt for it.
I had a cold chill.
I felt in the other pocket.
Then I felt in a little inside pocket.
I had two chills at once. "I took off my gloves, laid them on the seat, and went over all my pockets again.
I stood up and shook myself, and then looked on the floor.
The car was full of people, who were going home from the opera, and they all stared at me, but I was past caring for a little thing like that. "But I could not find my fare.
I concluded I must have put it in my mouth and swallowed it inadvertently. "I didn't know what to do.
Would the conductor, I wondered, stop the car and put me off in ignominy and shame?
Was it possible that I could convince him that I was merely the victim of my own absentmindedness, and not an unprincipled creature trying to obtain a ride upon false pretenses?
How I wished that Alec or Alonzo were there.
But they weren't because I wanted them.
If I _hadn't_ wanted them they would have been there by the dozen.
And I couldn't decide what to say to the conductor when he came around.
As soon as I got one sentence of explanation mapped out in my mind I felt nobody could believe it and I must compose another.
I hadn't swallowed it after all.
I meekly fished it out of the index finger of my glove and poked it in the box.
I smiled at everybody and felt that it was a beautiful world." The visit to Echo Lodge was not the least pleasant of many pleasant holiday outings.
Anne and Diana went back to it by the old way of the beech woods, carrying a lunch basket with them.
Echo Lodge, which had been closed ever since Miss Lavendar's wedding, was briefly thrown open to wind and sunshine once more, and firelight glimmered again in the little rooms.
The perfume of Miss Lavendar's rose bowl still filled the air.
It was hardly possible to believe that Miss Lavendar would not come tripping in presently, with her brown eyes a-star with welcome, and that Charlotta the Fourth, blue of bow and wide of smile, would not pop through the door.
Paul, too, seemed hovering around, with his fairy fancies. "It really makes me feel a little bit like a ghost revisiting the old time glimpses of the moon," laughed Anne.
Let's go out and see if the echoes are at home.
Instead, it went out with a wild, white bluster and blow.
But when they were cuddled between their blankets, in Anne's little porch room, it was not her mercies of which Jane was thinking. "Anne," she said very solemnly, "I want to tell you something.
May I" Anne was feeling rather sleepy after the party Ruby Gillis had given the night before.
She would much rather have gone to sleep than listen to Jane's confidences, which she was sure would bore her.
She had no prophetic inkling of what was coming.
Aloud she said, "Of course." "Anne," said Jane, still more solemnly, "what do you think of my brother Billy?" Anne gasped over this unexpected question, and floundered helplessly in her thoughts.
Goodness, what _did_ she think of Billy Andrews?
She had never thought _anything_ about him-round-faced, stupid, perpetually smiling, good-natured Billy Andrews.
Did _anybody_ ever think about Billy Andrews? "I-I don't understand, Jane," she stammered.
What do you mean-exactly?" "Do you like Billy?" asked Jane bluntly. "Why-why-yes, I like him, of course," gasped Anne, wondering if she were telling the literal truth.
Anne had been sitting up in bed, the better to wrestle with the problem of her exact opinion of Billy Andrews.
Now she fell flatly back on her pillows, the very breath gone out of her.
Whose husband?" "Yours, of course," answered Jane.
Billy wants to marry you.
He's always been crazy about you-and now father has given him the upper farm in his own name and there's nothing to prevent him from getting married.
But he's so shy he couldn't ask you himself if you'd have him, so he got me to do it.
I'd rather not have, but he gave me no peace till I said I would, if I got a good chance.
What do you think about it, Anne?" Was it a dream?
Was it one of those nightmare things in which you find yourself engaged or married to some one you hate or don't know, without the slightest idea how it ever came about?
No, she, Anne Shirley, was lying there, wide awake, in her own bed, and Jane Andrews was beside her, calmly proposing for her brother Billy.
Anne did not know whether she wanted to writhe or laugh; but she could do neither, for Jane's feelings must not be hurt. "I-I couldn't marry Bill, you know, Jane," she managed to gasp.
Why, such an idea never occurred to me-never!" "I don't suppose it did," agreed Jane.
Billy has always been far too shy to think of courting.
But you might think it over, Anne.
Billy is a good fellow.
I must say that, if he is my brother.
He has no bad habits and he's a great worker, and you can depend on him.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
He told me to tell you he'd be quite willing to wait till you got through college, if you insisted, though he'd _rather_ get married this spring before the planting begins.
He'd always be very good to you, I'm sure, and you know, Anne, I'd love to have you for a sister." "I can't marry Billy," said Anne decidedly.
She had recovered her wits, and was even feeling a little angry.
It was all so ridiculous.
There is no use thinking of it, Jane.
I don't care anything for him in that way, and you must tell him so." "Well, I didn't suppose you would," said Jane with a resigned sigh, feeling that she had done her best.
I told Billy I didn't believe it was a bit of use to ask you, but he insisted.
Well, you've made your decision, Anne, and I hope you won't regret it." Jane spoke rather coldly.
She had been perfectly sure that the enamored Billy had no chance at all of inducing Anne to marry him.
Nevertheless, she felt a little resentment that Anne Shirley, who was, after all, merely an adopted orphan, without kith or kin, should refuse her brother-one of the Avonlea Andrews.
Billy has too much good sense for that. He likes Nettie Blewett pretty well, too, and mother would rather he married her than any one.
She's such a good manager and saver.
I think, when Billy is once sure you won't have him, he'll take Nettie.
It was not, however, until the next morning that she had an opportunity to indulge in a good laugh over the whole affair.
Diana is the only one I'd want to tell, and, even if I hadn't sworn secrecy to Jane, I can't tell Diana things now.
She tells everything to Fred-I know she does.
Well, I've had my first proposal.
I supposed it would come some day-but I certainly never thought it would be by proxy.
It's awfully funny-and yet there's a sting in it, too, somehow." Anne knew quite well wherein the sting consisted, though she did not put it into words.
She had had her secret dreams of the first time some one should ask her the great question.
If the latter, the refusal was to be expressed so delicately that it would be next best thing to acceptance, and he would go away, after kissing her hand, assuring her of his unalterable, life-long devotion.
And it would always be a beautiful memory, to be proud of and a little sad about, also. And now, this thrilling experience had turned out to be merely grotesque.
Billy Andrews had got his sister to propose for him because his father had given him the upper farm; and if Anne wouldn't "have him" Nettie Blewett would.
There was romance for you, with a vengeance! Anne laughed-and then sighed.
The bloom had been brushed from one little maiden dream.
Would the painful process go on until everything became prosaic and hum-drum? Chapter IX An Unwelcome Lover and a Welcome Friend The second term at Redmond sped as quickly as had the first-"actually whizzed away," Philippa said.
She studied hard, for she had made up her mind to win the Thorburn Scholarship in English.
He was Anne's escort at nearly all the college affairs, and she knew that their names were coupled in Redmond gossip.
Gilbert did not love any of them, and he was exceedingly careful to give none of them the advantage over him by any untimely display of his real feelings Anne-ward.
Charlie Sloane, sitting bolt upright on Miss Ada's most dearly beloved cushion, asked Anne one night if she would promise "to become Mrs. Charlie Sloane some day.
Coming after Billy Andrews' proxy effort, this was not quite the shock to Anne's romantic sensibilities that it would otherwise have been; but it was certainly another heart-rending disillusion.
She was angry, too, for she felt that she had never given Charlie the slightest encouragement to suppose such a thing possible.
But what could you expect of a Sloane, as Mrs. Rachel Lynde would ask scornfully? Charlie's whole attitude, tone, air, words, fairly reeked with Sloanishness.
He was conferring a great honor-no doubt whatever about that.
And when Anne, utterly insensible to the honor, refused him, as delicately and considerately as she could-for even a Sloane had feelings which ought not to be unduly lacerated-Sloanishness still further betrayed itself.
Charlie certainly did not take his dismissal as Anne's imaginary rejected suitors did.
Had she actually stooped to quarrel with a Sloane?
Was it possible anything Charlie Sloane could say had power to make her angry?
It's from Stella-and she's coming to Redmond next year-and what do you think of her idea?
I think it's a perfectly splendid one, if we can only carry it out.
As I took the third year at Queen's I can enter the Sophomore year.
I'm tired of teaching in a back country school.
Some day I'm going to write a treatise on 'The Trials of a Country Schoolmarm.
It will be a harrowing bit of realism.
It seems to be the prevailing impression that we live in clover, and have nothing to do but draw our quarter's salary.
My treatise shall tell the truth about us.
Why, if a week should pass without some one telling me that I am doing easy work for big pay I would conclude that I might as well order my ascension robe 'immediately and to onct.
Well, you get your money easy,' some rate-payer will tell me, condescendingly.
All you have to do is to sit there and hear lessons.
I used to argue the matter at first, but I'm wiser now.
Facts are stubborn things, but as some one has wisely said, not half so stubborn as fallacies.
So I only smile loftily now in eloquent silence.
Why, I have nine grades in my school and I have to teach a little of everything, from investigating the interiors of earthworms to the study of the solar system.
In the wild effort to cram all sorts of research into six hours a day I don't wonder if the children feel like the little boy who was taken to see the biograph.
I have to look for what's coming next before I know what went last,' he complained.
I feel like that myself. "And the letters I get, Anne!
Tommy's mother writes me that Tommy is not coming on in arithmetic as fast as she would like.
He is only in simple reduction yet, and Johnny Johnson is in fractions, and Johnny isn't half as smart as her Tommy, and she can't understand it.
Those whom the gods wish to destroy they first make country schoolmarms! "There, I feel better, after that growl.
After all, I've enjoyed these past two years.
But I'm coming to Redmond. "And now, Anne, I've a little plan.
You know how I loathe boarding. I've boarded for four years and I'm so tired of it.
I don't feel like enduring three years more of it. "Now, why can't you and Priscilla and I club together, rent a little house somewhere in Kingsport, and board ourselves?
It would be cheaper than any other way.
Of course, we would have to have a housekeeper and I have one ready on the spot.
You've heard me speak of Aunt Jamesina? She's the sweetest aunt that ever lived, in spite of her name.
She was called Jamesina because her father, whose name was James, was drowned at sea a month before she was born.
I always call her Aunt Jimsie.
Well, her only daughter has recently married and gone to the foreign mission field.
Aunt Jamesina is left alone in a great big house, and she is horribly lonesome.
She will come to Kingsport and keep house for us if we want her, and I know you'll both love her.
The more I think of the plan the more I like it.
That would be better than leaving it till the fall.
If you could get a furnished one so much the better, but if not, we can scare up a few sticks of finiture between us and old family friends with attics.
Anyhow, decide as soon as you can and write me, so that Aunt Jamesina will know what plans to make for next year." "I think it's a good idea," said Priscilla. "So do I," agreed Anne delightedly.
Of course, we have a nice boardinghouse here, but, when all's said and done, a boardinghouse isn't home.
So let's go house-hunting at once, before exams come on." "I'm afraid it will be hard enough to get a really suitable house," warned Priscilla.
Don't expect too much, Anne.
Nice houses in nice localities will probably be away beyond our means.
Houses there were galore, furnished and unfurnished; but one was too big, another too small; this one too expensive, that one too far from Redmond.
I'm seeing visions and dreaming dreams, Pris.
That's because the wind is from the west.
I do love the west wind.
It sings of hope and gladness, doesn't it?
When the east wind blows I always think of sorrowful rain on the eaves and sad waves on a gray shore.
When I get old I shall have rheumatism when the wind is east." "And isn't it jolly when you discard furs and winter garments for the first time and sally forth, like this, in spring attire?" laughed Priscilla.
Don't you feel as if you had been made over new?" "Everything is new in the spring," said Anne.
Springs themselves are always so new, too.
No spring is ever just like any other spring.
It always has something of its own to be its own peculiar sweetness.
See how green the grass is around that little pond, and how the willow buds are bursting." "And exams are over and gone-the time of Convocation will come soon-next Wednesday.
This day next week we'll be home." "I'm glad," said Anne dreamily.
There are so many things I want to do. I want to sit on the back porch steps and feel the breeze blowing down over Mr. Harrison's fields.
I want to hunt ferns in the Haunted Wood and gather violets in Violet Vale.
Do you remember the day of our golden picnic, Priscilla?
I want to hear the frogs singing and the poplars whispering.
But I've learned to love Kingsport, too, and I'm glad I'm coming back next fall.
If I hadn't won the Thorburn I don't believe I could have.
I _couldn't_ take any of Marilla's little hoard." "If we could only find a house!" sighed Priscilla.
Look over there at Kingsport, Anne-houses, houses everywhere, and not one for us." "Stop it, Pris.
The best is yet to be.
Like the old Roman, we'll find a house or build one.
Priscilla Grant, look over there and tell me if it's true, or am I seein' things?" Priscilla looked.
Anne's thumbs and eyes had not deceived her.
Over the arched gateway of Patty's Place dangled a little, modest sign.
It said "To Let, Furnished.
Inquire Within." "Priscilla," said Anne, in a whisper, "do you suppose it's possible that we could rent Patty's Place?" "No, I don't," averred Priscilla.
It would be too good to be true. Fairy tales don't happen nowadays.
The disappointment would be too awful to bear.
They're sure to want more for it than we can afford.
Remember, it's on Spofford Avenue." "We must find out anyhow," said Anne resolutely.
It's too late to call this evening, but we'll come tomorrow.
Oh, Pris, if we can get this darling spot!
I've always felt that my fortunes were linked with Patty's Place, ever since I saw it first." Chapter X Patty's Place The next evening found them treading resolutely the herring-bone walk through the tiny garden.
The April wind was filling the pine trees with its roundelay, and the grove was alive with robins-great, plump, saucy fellows, strutting along the paths.
The girls rang rather timidly, and were admitted by a grim and ancient handmaiden.
The door opened directly into a large living-room, where by a cheery little fire sat two other ladies, both of whom were also grim and ancient.
Except that one looked to be about seventy and the other fifty, there seemed little difference between them.
Those dogs captured Anne's fancy on the spot; they seemed like the twin guardian deities of Patty's Place. For a few minutes nobody spoke.
The girls were too nervous to find words, and neither the ancient ladies nor the china dogs seemed conversationally inclined.
Anne glanced about the room.
What a dear place it was!
Another door opened out of it directly into the pine grove and the robins came boldly up on the very step.
The floor was spotted with round, braided mats, such as Marilla made at Green Gables, but which were considered out of date everywhere else, even in Avonlea. And yet here they were on Spofford Avenue!
A big, polished grandfather's clock ticked loudly and solemnly in a corner.
There were delightful little cupboards over the mantelpiece, behind whose glass doors gleamed quaint bits of china.
The walls were hung with old prints and silhouettes.
In one corner the stairs went up, and at the first low turn was a long window with an inviting seat.
I intended to take that sign down today." "Then-then we are too late," said Anne sorrowfully.
You've let it to some one else?" "No, but we have decided not to let it at all." "Oh, I'm so sorry," exclaimed Anne impulsively.
The other lady followed her example so perfectly that she might as well have been a reflection in a mirror. "You _love_ it," said Miss Patty with emphasis.
Does that mean that you really _love_ it?
Or that you merely like the looks of it?
The girls nowadays indulge in such exaggerated statements that one never can tell what they _do_ mean.
I've loved it ever since I saw it last fall.
Maria and I decided today that we would not let it after all, because we did not like any of the people who have wanted it.
We don't _have_ to let it. We can afford to go to Europe even if we don't let it.
It would help us out, but not for gold will I let my home pass into the possession of such people as have come here and looked at it. _You_ are different.
I believe you do love it and will be good to it.
You can have it." "If-if we can afford to pay what you ask for it," hesitated Anne. Miss Patty named the amount required.
Anne and Priscilla looked at each other.
Priscilla shook her head. "I'm afraid we can't afford quite so much," said Anne, choking back her disappointment.
You see, we are only college girls and we are poor." "What were you thinking you could afford?" demanded Miss Patty, ceasing not to knit. Anne named her amount.
Miss Patty nodded gravely. "That will do.
As I told you, it is not strictly necessary that we should let it at all.
We are not rich, but we have enough to go to Europe on.
I have never been in Europe in my life, and never expected or wanted to go.
But my niece there, Maria Spofford, has taken a fancy to go.
Now, you know a young person like Maria can't go globetrotting alone." "No-I-I suppose not," murmured Anne, seeing that Miss Patty was quite solemnly in earnest. "Of course not.
So I have to go along to look after her.
I expect to enjoy it, too; I'm seventy years old, but I'm not tired of living yet. I daresay I'd have gone to Europe before if the idea had occurred to me.
We shall be away for two years, perhaps three.
We sail in June and we shall send you the key, and leave all in order for you to take possession when you choose.
We shall pack away a few things we prize especially, but all the rest will be left." "Will you leave the china dogs?" asked Anne timidly. "Would you like me to?" "Oh, indeed, yes.
They are delightful." A pleased expression came into Miss Patty's face. "I think a great deal of those dogs," she said proudly.
Ah, you don't see the like of him nowadays." "He was a good uncle to you, Maria," said Miss Patty, with evident emotion.
You do well to remember him." "I shall always remember him," said Miss Maria solemnly.
Their names are Gog and Magog.
Gog looks to the right and Magog to the left.
And there's just one thing more. You don't object, I hope, to this house being called Patty's Place?" "No, indeed.
We think that is one of the nicest things about it." "You have sense, I see," said Miss Patty in a tone of great satisfaction.
All the people who came here to rent the house wanted to know if they couldn't take the name off the gate during their occupation of it.
I told them roundly that the name went with the house.
This has been Patty's Place ever since my brother Aaron left it to me in his will, and Patty's Place it shall remain until I die and Maria dies.
After that happens the next possessor can call it any fool name he likes," concluded Miss Patty, much as she might have said, "After that-the deluge.
And now, wouldn't you like to go over the house and see it all before we consider the bargain made?" Further exploration still further delighted the girls.
Besides the big living-room, there was a kitchen and a small bedroom downstairs. Upstairs were three rooms, one large and two small.
Anne took an especial fancy to one of the small ones, looking out into the big pines, and hoped it would be hers.
It was papered in pale blue and had a little, old-timey toilet table with sconces for candles.
Can you fancy them 'globe-trotting'-especially in those shawls and caps?" "I suppose they'll take them off when they really begin to trot," said Priscilla, "but I know they'll take their knitting with them everywhere.
They simply couldn't be parted from it.
They will walk about Westminster Abbey and knit, I feel sure.
Meanwhile, Anne, we shall be living in Patty's Place-and on Spofford Avenue.
I feel like the man without a country-or was it without a shadow?
Anyway, I've been packing up." "And I suppose you are worn out because you couldn't decide which things to pack first, or where to put them," laughed Priscilla. "E-zackly.
I had to unlock the old thing and poke and dive into it for an hour before I fished out what I wanted.
I would get hold of something that felt like what I was looking for, and I'd yank it up, and it would be something else.
No, Anne, I did _not_ swear." "I didn't say you did." "Well, you looked it.
But I admit my thoughts verged on the profane. And I have such a cold in the head-I can do nothing but sniffle, sigh and sneeze.
Isn't that alliterative agony for you?
Queen Anne, do say something to cheer me up." "Remember that next Thursday night, you'll be back in the land of Alec and Alonzo," suggested Anne. Phil shook her head dolefully. "More alliteration.
No, I don't want Alec and Alonzo when I have a cold in the head.
But what has happened you two?
Now that I look at you closely you seem all lighted up with an internal iridescence.
Why, you're actually _shining!_ What's up?" "We are going to live in Patty's Place next winter," said Anne triumphantly.
Live, mark you, not board!
We've rented it, and Stella Maynard is coming, and her aunt is going to keep house for us." Phil bounced up, wiped her nose, and fell on her knees before Anne. "Girls-girls-let me come, too.
Oh, I'll be so good.
Then Anne said slowly, "Phil dear, we'd love to have you.
But we may as well speak plainly.
I'm poor-Pris is poor-Stella Maynard is poor-our housekeeping will have to be very simple and our table plain.
You'd have to live as we would. Now, you are rich and your boardinghouse fare attests the fact." "Oh, what do I care for that?" demanded Phil tragically.
Better a dinner of herbs where your chums are than a stalled ox in a lonely boardinghouse.
Don't think I'm _all_ stomach, girls.
I'll be willing to live on bread and water-with just a _leetle_ jam-if you'll let me come." "And then," continued Anne, "there will be a good deal of work to be done.
Stella's aunt can't do it all.
We all expect to have our chores to do.
Now, you-" "Toil not, neither do I spin," finished Philippa.
But I'll learn to do things.
You'll only have to show me once.
I _can_ make my own bed to begin with.
And remember that, though I can't cook, I _can_ keep my temper.
And I _never_ growl about the weather.
I never wanted anything so much in my life-and this floor is awfully hard." "There's just one more thing," said Priscilla resolutely.
You, Phil, as all Redmond knows, entertain callers almost every evening.
Now, at Patty's Place we can't do that.
We have decided that we shall be at home to our friends on Friday evenings only.
If you come with us you'll have to abide by that rule." "Well, you don't think I'll mind that, do you?
Why, I'm glad of it.
I knew I should have had some such rule myself, but I hadn't enough decision to make it or stick to it.
When I can shuffle off the responsibility on you it will be a real relief.
If you won't let me cast in my lot with you I'll die of the disappointment and then I'll come back and haunt you.
I think Phil will fit into our 'appy little 'ome very well." "Oh, Phil's a dear to rattle round with and be chums.
And, of course, the more there are of us the easier it will be on our slim purses.
But how will she be to live with?
You have to summer and winter with any one before you know if she's _livable_ or not." "Oh, well, we'll all be put to the test, as far as that goes.
And we must quit us like sensible folk, living and let live.
People told her she hadn't changed much, in a tone which hinted they were surprised and a little disappointed she hadn't. Avonlea had not changed, either.
At least, so it seemed at first.
A new minister was in the pulpit.
In the pews more than one familiar face was missing forever.
And Billy Andrews was married to Nettie Blewett!
They "appeared out" that Sunday.
When Billy, beaming with pride and happiness, showed his be-plumed and be-silked bride into the Harmon Andrews' pew, Anne dropped her lids to hide her dancing eyes.
She recalled the stormy winter night of the Christmas holidays when Jane had proposed for Billy.
He certainly had not broken his heart over his rejection.
Anne wondered if Jane had also proposed to Nettie for him, or if he had mustered enough spunk to ask the fateful question himself.
All the Andrews family seemed to share in his pride and pleasure, from Mrs. Harmon in the pew to Jane in the choir.
Jane had resigned from the Avonlea school and intended to go West in the fall. "Can't get a beau in Avonlea, that's what," said Mrs. Rachel Lynde scornfully. "_Says_ she thinks she'll have better health out West.
I never heard her health was poor before." "Jane is a nice girl," Anne had said loyally.
She never tried to attract attention, as some did." "Oh, she never chased the boys, if that's what you mean," said Mrs. Rachel.
But she'd like to be married, just as much as anybody, that's what.
What else would take her out West to some forsaken place whose only recommendation is that men are plenty and women scarce?
Don't you tell me!" But it was not at Jane, Anne gazed that day in dismay and surprise.
It was at Ruby Gillis, who sat beside her in the choir.
What had happened to Ruby?
Anne asked of Mrs. Lynde, as they went home from church. "Ruby Gillis is dying of galloping consumption," said Mrs. Lynde bluntly.
Everybody knows it except herself and her _family_.
They won't give in. If you ask _them_, she's perfectly well.
She hasn't been able to teach since she had that attack of congestion in the winter, but she says she's going to teach again in the fall, and she's after the White Sands school.
She'll be in her grave, poor girl, when White Sands school opens, that's what." Anne listened in shocked silence.
Ruby Gillis, her old school-chum, dying?
Of late years they had grown apart; but the old tie of school-girl intimacy was there, and made itself felt sharply in the tug the news gave at Anne's heartstrings.
Ruby, the brilliant, the merry, the coquettish!
It was impossible to associate the thought of her with anything like death.
She had greeted Anne with gay cordiality after church, and urged her to come up the next evening. "I'll be away Tuesday and Wednesday evenings," she had whispered triumphantly.
There's a concert at Carmody and a party at White Sands. Herb Spencer's going to take me.
Be sure to come up tomorrow.
I'm dying for a good talk with you.
It's so awful to hear Ruby rattling on as she does, and pretending there is nothing the matter with her, even when she can hardly speak for coughing.
She's fighting so hard for her life, and yet she hasn't any chance at all, they say." The girls walked silently down the red, twilit road.
The robins were singing vespers in the high treetops, filling the golden air with their jubilant voices.
The silver fluting of the frogs came from marshes and ponds, over fields where seeds were beginning to stir with life and thrill to the sunshine and rain that had drifted over them.
The air was fragrant with the wild, sweet, wholesome smell of young raspberry copses.
White mists were hovering in the silent hollows and violet stars were shining bluely on the brooklands. "What a beautiful sunset," said Diana.
Look, Anne, it's just like a land in itself, isn't it?
Do you think we could find all our yesterdays there, Diana-all our old springs and blossoms?
The beds of flowers that Paul saw there are the roses that have bloomed for us in the past?" "Don't!" said Diana.
You make me feel as if we were old women with everything in life behind us." "I think I've almost felt as if we were since I heard about poor Ruby," said Anne.
If it is true that she is dying any other sad thing might be true, too." "You don't mind calling in at Elisha Wright's for a moment, do you?" asked Diana.
Mother asked me to leave this little dish of jelly for Aunt Atossa." "Who is Aunt Atossa?" "Oh, haven't you heard?
She's Mrs. Samson Coates of Spencervale-Mrs. Elisha Wright's aunt.
Her husband died last winter and she was left very poor and lonely, so the Wrights took her to live with them.
Mother thought we ought to take her, but father put his foot down.
Live with Aunt Atossa he would not." "Is she so terrible?" asked Anne absently. "You'll probably see what she's like before we can get away," said Diana significantly.
Father says she has a face like a hatchet-it cuts the air.
But her tongue is sharper still." Late as it was Aunt Atossa was cutting potato sets in the Wright kitchen.
She wore a faded old wrapper, and her gray hair was decidedly untidy.
Aunt Atossa did not like being "caught in a kilter," so she went out of her way to be disagreeable. "Oh, so you're Anne Shirley?" she said, when Diana introduced Anne. "I've heard of you.
Her tone implied that she had heard nothing good. "Mrs. Andrews was telling me you were home.
She said you had improved a good deal." There was no doubt Aunt Atossa thought there was plenty of room for further improvement.
She ceased not from cutting sets with much energy. "Is it any use to ask you to sit down?" she inquired sarcastically.
Of course, there's nothing very entertaining here for you.
The rest are all away." "Mother sent you this little pot of rhubarb jelly," said Diana pleasantly.
She made it today and thought you might like some." "Oh, thanks," said Aunt Atossa sourly.
I never fancy your mother's jelly-she always makes it too sweet.
However, I'll try to worry some down.
My appetite's been dreadful poor this spring.
I'm far from well," continued Aunt Atossa solemnly, "but still I keep a-doing.
People who can't work aren't wanted here.
If it isn't too much trouble will you be condescending enough to set the jelly in the pantry?
I'm in a hurry to get these spuds done tonight.
I suppose you two _ladies_ never do anything like this.
You'd be afraid of spoiling your hands." "I used to cut potato sets before we rented the farm," smiled Anne. "I do it yet," laughed Diana.
I cut sets three days last week.
I wonder your mother allows you.
But she always spoiled you.
Well, I suppose you can't find much amusement talking to an old woman like me.
It's such a pity the boys ain't home." "We want to run in and see Ruby Gillis a little while," explained Diana. "Oh, anything does for an excuse, of course," said Aunt Atossa, amiably.
Just whip in and whip out before you have time to say how-do decently.
It's college airs, I s'pose.
You'd be wiser to keep away from Ruby Gillis.
The doctors say consumption's catching.
I always knew Ruby'd get something, gadding off to Boston last fall for a visit. People who ain't content to stay home always catch something." "People who don't go visiting catch things, too.
Sometimes they even die," said Diana solemnly. "Then they don't have themselves to blame for it," retorted Aunt Atossa triumphantly.
I hear you are to be married in June, Diana." "There is no truth in that report," said Diana, blushing. "Well, don't put it off too long," said Aunt Atossa significantly. "You'll fade soon-you're all complexion and hair.
And the Wrights are terrible fickle.
You ought to wear a hat, _Miss Shirley_.
Your nose is freckling scandalous.
My, but you _are_ redheaded!
Well, I s'pose we're all as the Lord made us!
Give Marilla Cuthbert my respects.
She's never been to see me since I come to Avonlea, but I s'pose I oughtn't to complain.
The Cuthberts always did think themselves a cut higher than any one else round here." "Oh, isn't she dreadful?" gasped Diana, as they escaped down the lane. "She's worse than Miss Eliza Andrews," said Anne.
But then think of living all your life with a name like Atossa!
Wouldn't it sour almost any one?
She should have tried to imagine her name was Cordelia.
It might have helped her a great deal.
It certainly helped me in the days when I didn't like _Anne_." "Josie Pye will be just like her when she grows up," said Diana. "Josie's mother and Aunt Atossa are cousins, you know.
Oh, dear, I'm glad that's over.
She's so malicious-she seems to put a bad flavor in everything.
Father tells such a funny story about her.
One time they had a minister in Spencervale who was a very good, spiritual man but very deaf.
He couldn't hear any ordinary conversation at all.
Well, they used to have a prayer meeting on Sunday evenings, and all the church members present would get up and pray in turn, or say a few words on some Bible verse.
But one evening Aunt Atossa bounced up.
She didn't either pray or preach.
Finally she wound up by saying that she was disgusted with Spencervale church and she never meant to darken its door again, and she hoped a fearful judgment would come upon it.
Then she sat down out of breath, and the minister, who hadn't heard a word she said, immediately remarked, in a very devout voice, 'amen!
The Lord grant our dear sister's prayer!
You used to write perfectly thrilling stories years ago in our old Story Club." "Well, I hardly meant one of that kind of stories," smiled Anne.
I've been thinking about it a little of late, but I'm almost afraid to try, for, if I should fail, it would be too humiliating." "I heard Priscilla say once that all Mrs. Morgan's first stories were rejected.
But I'm sure yours wouldn't be, Anne, for it's likely editors have more sense nowadays." "Margaret Burton, one of the Junior girls at Redmond, wrote a story last winter and it was published in the _Canadian Woman_.
I really do think I could write one at least as good." "And will you have it published in the _Canadian Woman?_" "I might try one of the bigger magazines first.
It all depends on what kind of a story I write." "What is it to be about?" "I don't know yet.
I want to get hold of a good plot.
I believe this is very necessary from an editor's point of view.
The only thing I've settled on is the heroine's name.
It is to be _Averil Lester_.
Rather pretty, don't you think?
Don't mention this to any one, Diana.
Leonard Kimball, of Spencervale, and Morgan Bell, of Carmody, were glaring at each other across the parlor.
Several merry girls had dropped in. Ruby was dressed in white and her eyes and cheeks were very brilliant.
She laughed and chattered incessantly, and after the other girls had gone she took Anne upstairs to display her new summer dresses. "I've a blue silk to make up yet, but it's a little heavy for summer wear.
I think I'll leave it until the fall.
I'm going to teach in White Sands, you know.
How do you like my hat?
That one you had on in church yesterday was real dinky.
But I like something brighter for myself.
Did you notice those two ridiculous boys downstairs?
They've both come determined to sit each other out.
I don't care a single bit about either of them, you know.
Herb Spencer is the one I like.
Sometimes I really do think he's _Mr. Right_.
At Christmas I thought the Spencervale schoolmaster was that.
But I found out something about him that turned me against him.
He nearly went insane when I turned him down.
I wish those two boys hadn't come tonight.
I wanted to have a nice good talk with you, Anne, and tell you such heaps of things.
Come alone-I want you." "Are you feeling quite well, Ruby?" "Me!
I never felt better in my life.
Of course, that congestion last winter pulled me down a little.
But just see my color.
I don't look much like an invalid, I'm sure." Ruby's voice was almost sharp.
I've had such a time to get a suitable plot.
None of the plots that suggested themselves suited a girl named _Averil_." "Couldn't you have changed her name?" "No, the thing was impossible.
But finally I got a plot that matched her.
Then came the excitement of choosing names for all my characters.
You have no idea how fascinating that is.
I've lain awake for hours thinking over those names.
The hero's name is _Perceval Dalrymple_." "Have you named _all_ the characters?" asked Diana wistfully.
If you hadn't I was going to ask you to let me name one-just some unimportant person.
I'd feel as if I had a share in the story then." "You may name the little hired boy who lived with the _Lesters_," conceded Anne.
No one else shall see it until it is published." "How are you going to end it-happily or unhappily?" "I'm not sure.
I'd like it to end unhappily, because that would be so much more romantic.
But I understand editors have a prejudice against sad endings.
I heard Professor Hamilton say once that nobody but a genius should try to write an unhappy ending.
And," concluded Anne modestly, "I'm anything but a genius." "Oh I like happy endings best.
You'd better let him marry her," said Diana, who, especially since her engagement to Fred, thought this was how every story should end. "But you like to cry over stories?" "Oh, yes, in the middle of them.
But I like everything to come right at last." "I must have one pathetic scene in it," said Anne thoughtfully.
I might let _Robert Ray_ be injured in an accident and have a death scene." "No, you mustn't kill _Bobby_ off," declared Diana, laughing.
He belongs to me and I want him to live and flourish.
Kill somebody else if you have to." For the next fortnight Anne writhed or reveled, according to mood, in her literary pursuits.
Now she would be jubilant over a brilliant idea, now despairing because some contrary character would _not_ behave properly.
Diana could not understand this. "_Make_ them do as you want them to," she said. "I can't," mourned Anne.
Averil is such an unmanageable heroine.
She _will_ do and say things I never meant her to.
Then that spoils everything that went before and I have to write it all over again." Finally, however, the story was finished, and Anne read it to Diana in the seclusion of the porch gable.
She had achieved her "pathetic scene" without sacrificing _Robert Ray_, and she kept a watchful eye on Diana as she read it.
Diana rose to the occasion and cried properly; but, when the end came, she looked a little disappointed. "Why did you kill _Maurice Lennox?_" she asked reproachfully. "He was the villain," protested Anne.
He had to be punished." "I like him best of them all," said unreasonable Diana. "Well, he's dead, and he'll have to stay dead," said Anne, rather resentfully.
Have you got a title for it?" "Oh, I decided on the title long ago.
I call it _Averil's atonement_. Doesn't that sound nice and alliterative?
Now, Diana, tell me candidly, do you see any faults in my story?" "Well," hesitated Diana, "that part where _Averil_ makes the cake doesn't seem to me quite romantic enough to match the rest.
It's just what anybody might do.
Heroines shouldn't do cooking, _I_ think." "Why, that is where the humor comes in, and it's one of the best parts of the whole story," said Anne.
And it may be stated that in this she was quite right. Diana prudently refrained from any further criticism, but Mr. Harrison was much harder to please.
I simply _couldn't_ let it go.
It was the best of them all." "It hasn't anything to do with the story," said Mr. Harrison, "and you shouldn't have laid the scene among rich city people.
What do you know of them?
Why didn't you lay it right here in Avonlea-changing the name, of course, or else Mrs. Rachel Lynde would probably think she was the heroine." "Oh, that would never have done," protested Anne.
Avonlea is the dearest place in the world, but it isn't quite romantic enough for the scene of a story." "I daresay there's been many a romance in Avonlea-and many a tragedy, too," said Mr. Harrison drily.
But your folks ain't like real folks anywhere.
They talk too much and use too high-flown language.
There's one place where that _Dalrymple_ chap talks even on for two pages, and never lets the girl get a word in edgewise.
If he'd done that in real life she'd have pitched him." "I don't believe it," said Anne flatly.
In her secret soul she thought that the beautiful, poetical things said to _Averil_ would win any girl's heart completely.
Besides, it was gruesome to hear of _Averil_, the stately, queen-like _Averil_, "pitching" any one. _Averil_ "declined her suitors." "Anyhow," resumed the merciless Mr. Harrison, "I don't see why _Maurice Lennox_ didn't get her.
He was twice the man the other is.
He did bad things, but he did them.
Perceval hadn't time for anything but mooning." "Mooning.
That was even worse than "pitching!" "_Maurice Lennox_ was the villain," said Anne indignantly.
I don't see why every one likes him better than _Perceval_." "Perceval is too good.
Next time you write about a hero put a little spice of human nature in him." "_Averil_ couldn't have married _Maurice_.
He was bad." "She'd have reformed him.
You can reform a man; you can't reform a jelly-fish, of course.
Your story isn't bad-it's kind of interesting, I'll admit.
But you're too young to write a story that would be worth while.
Wait ten years." Anne made up her mind that the next time she wrote a story she wouldn't ask anybody to criticize it.
Diana was as excited over it as Anne herself. "How long do you suppose it will be before you hear from it?" she asked. "It shouldn't be longer than a fortnight.
Oh, how happy and proud I shall be if it is accepted!" "Of course it will be accepted, and they will likely ask you to send them more.
One evening Diana found Anne in the porch gable, with suspicious-looking eyes.
On the table lay a long envelope and a crumpled manuscript. "Anne, your story hasn't come back?" cried Diana incredulously. "Yes, it has," said Anne shortly. "Well, that editor must be crazy.
What reason did he give?" "No reason at all.
There is just a printed slip saying that it wasn't found acceptable." "I never thought much of that magazine, anyway," said Diana hotly.
The stories in it are not half as interesting as those in the _Canadian Woman_, although it costs so much more.
I suppose the editor is prejudiced against any one who isn't a Yankee.
Remember how Mrs. Morgan's stories came back.
Send yours to the _Canadian Woman_." "I believe I will," said Anne, plucking up heart.
And if it is published I'll send that American editor a marked copy.
But I'll cut the sunset out.
Anne took this second rejection with the calmness of despair.
If I had to have villains at all, I'd give them a chance, Anne-I'd give them a chance.
There are some terrible bad men in the world, I suppose, but you'd have to go a long piece to find them-though Mrs. Lynde believes we're all bad.
But most of us have got a little decency somewhere in us.
Keep on writing, Anne." "No. It was very foolish of me to attempt it.
When I'm through Redmond I'll stick to teaching.
I can't write stories." "It'll be time for you to be getting a husband when you're through Redmond," said Mr. Harrison.
I don't believe in putting marrying off too long-like I did." Anne got up and marched home.
There were times when Mr. Harrison was really intolerable.
Pitching," "mooning," and "getting a husband." Ow!! Chapter XIII The Way of Transgressors Davy and Dora were ready for Sunday School.
They were going alone, which did not often happen, for Mrs. Lynde always attended Sunday School.
But Mrs. Lynde had twisted her ankle and was lame, so she was staying home this morning.
The twins were also to represent the family at church, for Anne had gone away the evening before to spend Sunday with friends in Carmody, and Marilla had one of her headaches. Davy came downstairs slowly.
Dora was waiting in the hall for him, having been made ready by Mrs. Lynde.
Davy had attended to his own preparations.
Had he not studied them-perforce-in Mrs. Lynde's kitchen, all last Sunday afternoon?
Davy, therefore, should have been in a placid frame of mind.
Don't walk in the dust.
Don't stop in the porch to talk to the other children.
Don't squirm or wriggle in your places.
Don't forget the Golden Text.
Don't lose your collection or forget to put it in. Don't whisper at prayer time, and don't forget to pay attention to the sermon." Davy deigned no response.
He marched away down the lane, followed by the meek Dora.
But his soul seethed within.
And it was only the preceding afternoon that she had interfered to influence Marilla against allowing Davy to go fishing with the Timothy Cottons.
Doesn't He know a fellow must have some way of 'spressing his feelings?" "Davy!!!" said Dora.
She expected that Davy would be struck down dead on the spot.
But nothing happened. "Anyway, I ain't going to stand any more of Mrs. Lynde's bossing," spluttered Davy.
Anne and Marilla may have the right to boss me, but _she_ hasn't.
And I'm going to stop in the porch and talk as long as there's anybody there to talk to. I'm going to squirm and wriggle and whisper, and I'm going to say I don't know the Golden Text.
And I'm going to throw away both of my collections _right now_." And Davy hurled cent and nickel over Mr. Barry's fence with fierce delight. "Satan made you do that," said Dora reproachfully. "He didn't," cried Davy indignantly.
I just thought it out for myself. And I've thought of something else.
I'm not going to Sunday School or church at all.
I'm going up to play with the Cottons.
They told me yesterday they weren't going to Sunday School today, 'cause their mother was away and there was nobody to make them.
Come along, Dora, we'll have a great time." "I don't want to go," protested Dora. "You've got to," said Davy.
If you don't come I'll tell Marilla that Frank Bell kissed you in school last Monday." "I couldn't help it.
I didn't know he was going to," cried Dora, blushing scarlet. "Well, you didn't slap him or seem a bit cross," retorted Davy.
I'll tell her _that_, too, if you don't come.
We'll take the short cut up this field." "I'm afraid of those cows," protested poor Dora, seeing a prospect of escape. "The very idea of your being scared of those cows," scoffed Davy.
Why, they're both younger than you." "They're bigger," said Dora. "They won't hurt you.
When I grow up I ain't going to bother going to church at all.
I believe I can get to heaven by myself." "You'll go to the other place if you break the Sabbath day," said unhappy Dora, following him sorely against her will. But Davy was not scared-yet.
Hell was very far off, and the delights of a fishing expedition with the Cottons were very near.
He wished Dora had more spunk.
She kept looking back as if she were going to cry every minute, and that spoiled a fellow's fun.
Davy did not say "darn" this time, even in thought.
Pete, Tommy, Adolphus, and Mirabel Cotton were all alone.
Their mother and older sisters were away.
Dora was thankful Mirabel was there, at least.
She had been afraid she would be alone in a crowd of boys.
Mirabel was almost as bad as a boy-she was so noisy and sunburned and reckless.
But at least she wore dresses. "We've come to go fishing," announced Davy. "Whoop," yelled the Cottons.
They rushed away to dig worms at once, Mirabel leading the van with a tin can.
Dora could have sat down and cried.
Oh, if only that hateful Frank Bell had never kissed her!
Then she could have defied Davy, and gone to her beloved Sunday School. They dared not, of course, go fishing on the pond, where they would be seen by people going to church.
They had to resort to the brook in the woods behind the Cotton house.
But it was full of trout, and they had a glorious time that morning-at least the Cottons certainly had, and Davy seemed to have it.
Not being entirely bereft of prudence, he had discarded boots and stockings and borrowed Tommy Cotton's overalls. Thus accoutered, bog and marsh and undergrowth had no terrors for him. Dora was frankly and manifestly miserable.
She followed the others in their peregrinations from pool to pool, clasping her Bible and quarterly tightly and thinking with bitterness of soul of her beloved class where she should be sitting that very moment, before a teacher she adored.
Instead, here she was roaming the woods with those half-wild Cottons, trying to keep her boots clean and her pretty white dress free from rents and stains.
Mirabel had offered the loan of an apron but Dora had scornfully refused. The trout bit as they always do on Sundays.
In an hour the transgressors had all the fish they wanted, so they returned to the house, much to Dora's relief.
She sat primly on a hencoop in the yard while the others played an uproarious game of tag; and then they all climbed to the top of the pig-house roof and cut their initials on the saddleboard.
The flat-roofed henhouse and a pile of straw beneath gave Davy another inspiration.
They spent a splendid half hour climbing on the roof and diving off into the straw with whoops and yells. But even unlawful pleasures must come to an end.
When the rumble of wheels over the pond bridge told that people were going home from church Davy knew they must go.
He discarded Tommy's overalls, resumed his own rightful attire, and turned away from his string of trout with a sigh.
No use to think of taking them home. "Well, hadn't we a splendid time?" he demanded defiantly, as they went down the hill field. "I hadn't," said Dora flatly.
And I don't believe you had-really-either," she added, with a flash of insight that was not to be expected of her. "I had so," cried Davy, but in the voice of one who doth protest too much.
No wonder you hadn't-just sitting there like a-like a mule." "I ain't going to, 'sociate with the Cottons," said Dora loftily. "The Cottons are all right," retorted Davy.
And they have far better times than we have.
Would you," demanded Dora gravely, "would you say 'tomcat' before the minister?" This was a staggerer.
Davy was not prepared for such a concrete example of the freedom of speech.
But one did not have to be consistent with Dora. "Of course not," he admitted sulkily. "'Tomcat' isn't a holy word.
Now that the exhilaration of truant delights had died away, his conscience was beginning to give him salutary twinges. After all, perhaps it would have been better to have gone to Sunday School and church.
Mrs. Lynde might be bossy; but there was always a box of cookies in her kitchen cupboard and she was not stingy.
He was to discover that one sin demands another to cover it.
They had dinner with Mrs. Lynde that day, and the first thing she asked Davy was, "Were all your class in Sunday School today?" "Yes'm," said Davy with a gulp.
All were there-'cept one." "Did you say your Golden Text and catechism?" "Yes'm." "Did you put your collection in?" "Yes'm." "Was Mrs. Malcolm MacPherson in church?" "I don't know.
This, at least, was the truth, thought wretched Davy. "Was the Ladies' Aid announced for next week?" "Yes'm"-quakingly. "Was prayer-meeting?" "I-I don't know." "_You_ should know.
You should listen more attentively to the announcements.
What was Mr. Harvey's text?" Davy took a frantic gulp of water and swallowed it and the last protest of conscience together.
He glibly recited an old Golden Text learned several weeks ago.
You just shut up, Dora Keith." Then poor Davy betook himself to a secluded retreat behind the woodpile to think over the way of transgressors. Green Gables was wrapped in darkness and silence when Anne reached home.
She lost no time going to bed, for she was very tired and sleepy. There had been several Avonlea jollifications the preceding week, involving rather late hours.
Anne's head was hardly on her pillow before she was half asleep; but just then her door was softly opened and a pleading voice said, "Anne." Anne sat up drowsily. "Davy, is that you?
What is the matter?" A white-clad figure flung itself across the floor and on to the bed. "Anne," sobbed Davy, getting his arms about her neck.
I'm awful glad you're home.
I couldn't go to sleep till I'd told somebody." "Told somebody what?" "How mis'rubul I am." "Why are you miserable, dear?" "'Cause I was so bad today, Anne.
Oh, I was awful bad-badder'n I've ever been yet." "What did you do?" "Oh, I'm afraid to tell you.
You'll never like me again, Anne.
I couldn't say my prayers tonight.
I couldn't tell God what I'd done.
I was 'shamed to have Him know." "But He knew anyway, Davy." "That's what Dora said.
But I thought p'raps He mightn't have noticed just at the time.
Davy didn't know what to make of it.
Was Anne so shocked that she never would speak to him again? "Anne, what are you going to do to me?" he whispered. "Nothing, dear.
You've been punished already, I think." "No, I haven't.
Nothing's been done to me." "You've been very unhappy ever since you did wrong, haven't you?" "You bet!" said Davy emphatically. "That was your conscience punishing you, Davy." "What's my conscience?
I want to know." "It's something in you, Davy, that always tells you when you are doing wrong and makes you unhappy if you persist in doing it.
Haven't you noticed that?" "Yes, but I didn't know what it was.
I wish I didn't have it.
I'd have lots more fun.
Where is my conscience, Anne?
Is it in my stomach?" "No, it's in your soul," answered Anne, thankful for the darkness, since gravity must be preserved in serious matters. "I s'pose I can't get clear of it then," said Davy with a sigh.
Are you going to tell Marilla and Mrs. Lynde on me, Anne?" "No, dear, I'm not going to tell any one.
Say, I don't feel mis'rubul any more.
Good night." "Good night." Anne slipped down on her pillows with a sigh of relief.
Davy was back again by her bed.
Anne dragged her eyes open. "What is it now, dear?" she asked, trying to keep a note of impatience out of her voice. "Anne, have you ever noticed how Mr. Harrison spits?
Do you s'pose, if I practice hard, I can learn to spit just like him?" Anne sat up. "Davy Keith," she said, "go straight to your bed and don't let me catch you out of it again tonight!
Go, now!" Davy went, and stood not upon the order of his going. Chapter XIV The Summons Anne was sitting with Ruby Gillis in the Gillis' garden after the day had crept lingeringly through it and was gone.
It had been a warm, smoky summer afternoon.
The world was in a splendor of out-flowering. The idle valleys were full of hazes.
The woodways were pranked with shadows and the fields with the purple of the asters. Anne had given up a moonlight drive to the White Sands beach that she might spend the evening with Ruby.
But she was always gay, always hopeful, always chattering and whispering of her beaux, and their rivalries and despairs.
It was this that made Anne's visits hard for her.
What had once been silly or amusing was gruesome, now; it was death peering through a wilful mask of life.
Yet Ruby seemed to cling to her, and never let her go until she had promised to come again soon.
Ruby doesn't seem to realize her condition in the least.
And yet I somehow feel she needs help-craves it-and I want to give it to her and can't.
All the time I'm with her I feel as if I were watching her struggle with an invisible foe-trying to push it back with such feeble resistance as she has.
That is why I come home tired." But tonight Anne did not feel this so keenly.
Ruby was strangely quiet. She said not a word about parties and drives and dresses and "fellows." She lay in the hammock, with her untouched work beside her, and a white shawl wrapped about her thin shoulders.
Her long yellow braids of hair-how Anne had envied those beautiful braids in old schooldays!-lay on either side of her.
She had taken the pins out-they made her head ache, she said.
The hectic flush was gone for the time, leaving her pale and childlike. The moon rose in the silvery sky, empearling the clouds around her. Below, the pond shimmered in its hazy radiance.
Just beyond the Gillis homestead was the church, with the old graveyard beside it.
The moonlight shone on the white stones, bringing them out in clear-cut relief against the dark trees behind. "How strange the graveyard looks by moonlight!" said Ruby suddenly. "How ghostly!" she shuddered.
Anne, it won't be long now before I'll be lying over there.
You and Diana and all the rest will be going about, full of life-and I'll be there-in the old graveyard-dead!" The surprise of it bewildered Anne.
For a few moments she could not speak. "You know it's so, don't you?" said Ruby insistently. "Yes, I know," answered Anne in a low tone.
Dear Ruby, I know." "Everybody knows it," said Ruby bitterly.
I know it-I've known it all summer, though I wouldn't give in. And, oh, Anne"-she reached out and caught Anne's hand pleadingly, impulsively-"I don't want to die.
I'm _afraid_ to die." "Why should you be afraid, Ruby?" asked Anne quietly. "Because-because-oh, I'm not afraid but that I'll go to heaven, Anne. I'm a church member.
But-it'll be all so different.
I think-and think-and I get so frightened-and-and-homesick.
It had sounded funny then-she remembered how she and Priscilla had laughed over it. But it did not seem in the least humorous now, coming from Ruby's pale, trembling lips.
It was sad, tragic-and true!
Heaven could not be what Ruby had been used to.
There had been nothing in her gay, frivolous life, her shallow ideals and aspirations, to fit her for that great change, or make the life to come seem to her anything but alien and unreal and undesirable.
Anne wondered helplessly what she could say that would help her.
I don't think it can be so very different from life here as most people seem to think.
I believe we'll just go on living, a good deal as we live here-and be _ourselves_ just the same-only it will be easier to be good and to-follow the highest.
All the hindrances and perplexities will be taken away, and we shall see clearly.
Don't be afraid, Ruby." "I can't help it," said Ruby pitifully.
Even if what you say about heaven is true-and you can't be sure-it may be only that imagination of yours-it won't be _just_ the same.
I want to go on living _here_.
I haven't had my life.
I've fought so hard to live-and it isn't any use-I have to die-and leave _everything_ I care for.
Anne sat in a pain that was almost intolerable.
She could not tell comforting falsehoods; and all that Ruby said was so horribly true.
She _was_ leaving everything she cared for.
I want to live like other girls.
I-I want to be married, Anne-and-and-have little children. You know I always loved babies, Anne.
I couldn't say this to any one but you.
And then poor Herb-he-he loves me and I love him, Anne.
The others meant nothing to me, but _he_ does-and if I could live I would be his wife and be so happy.
Oh, Anne, it's hard." Ruby sank back on her pillows and sobbed convulsively.
Anne pressed her hand in an agony of sympathy-silent sympathy, which perhaps helped Ruby more than broken, imperfect words could have done; for presently she grew calmer and her sobs ceased. "I'm glad I've told you this, Anne," she whispered.
It has helped me just to say it all out.
I've wanted to all summer-every time you came. I wanted to talk it over with you-but I _couldn't_.
It seemed as if it would make death so _sure_ if I _said_ I was going to die, or if any one else said it or hinted it.
I wouldn't say it, or even think it.
In the daytime, when people were around me and everything was cheerful, it wasn't so hard to keep from thinking of it.
But in the night, when I couldn't sleep-it was so dreadful, Anne.
I couldn't get away from it then.
Death just came and stared me in the face, until I got so frightened I could have screamed. "But you won't be frightened any more, Ruby, will you?
You'll be brave, and believe that all is going to be well with you." "I'll try.
I'll think over what you have said, and try to believe it. And you'll come up as often as you can, won't you, Anne?" "Yes, dear." "It-it won't be very long now, Anne.
I feel sure of that.
And I'd rather have you than any one else.
I always liked you best of all the girls I went to school with.
You were never jealous, or mean, like some of them were.
Poor Em White was up to see me yesterday.
You remember Em and I were such chums for three years when we went to school?
And then we quarrelled the time of the school concert.
We've never spoken to each other since.
Anything like that seems silly _now_.
But Em and I made up the old quarrel yesterday.
She said she'd have spoken years ago, only she thought I wouldn't.
And I never spoke to her because I was sure she wouldn't speak to me.
Isn't it strange how people misunderstand each other, Anne?" "Most of the trouble in life comes from misunderstanding, I think," said Anne.
I must go now, Ruby.
It's getting late-and you shouldn't be out in the damp." "You'll come up soon again." "Yes, very soon.
And if there's anything I can do to help you I'll be so glad." "I know.
You _have_ helped me already.
Nothing seems quite so dreadful now.
Good night, Anne." "Good night, dear." Anne walked home very slowly in the moonlight.
The evening had changed something for her.
Life held a different meaning, a deeper purpose.
On the surface it would go on just the same; but the deeps had been stirred.
It must not be with her as with poor butterfly Ruby.
When she came to the end of one life it must not be to face the next with the shrinking terror of something wholly different-something for which accustomed thought and ideal and aspiration had unfitted her.
Anne never saw Ruby in life again.
The next night the A.V.I.S. gave a farewell party to Jane Andrews before her departure for the West.
Her loveliness, as she lay, white-clad, among the delicate flowers that Anne had placed about her, was remembered and talked of for years in Avonlea.
But death had touched it and consecrated it, bringing out delicate modelings and purity of outline never seen before-doing what life and love and great sorrow and deep womanhood joys might have done for Ruby.
Ruby would have liked you to have it.
It's the embroidered centerpiece she was working at.
But I suppose there's always some one to finish it." "How difficult it is to realize that one we have always known can really be dead," said Anne, as she and Diana walked home.
Ruby is the first of our schoolmates to go.
One by one, sooner or later, all the rest of us must follow." "Yes, I suppose so," said Diana uncomfortably.
She did not want to talk of that.
She seemed wrapped in a reverie in which Diana felt lonesomely that she had neither lot nor part. "Ruby Gillis was a great girl to laugh," said Davy suddenly.
Will she laugh as much in heaven as she did in Avonlea, Anne?
I want to know." "Yes, I think she will," said Anne. "Oh, Anne," protested Diana, with a rather shocked smile. "Well, why not, Diana?" asked Anne seriously.
Do you think we'll never laugh in heaven?" "Oh-I-I don't know" floundered Diana.
It doesn't seem just right, somehow.
You know it's rather dreadful to laugh in church." "But heaven won't be like church-all the time," said Anne. "I hope it ain't," said Davy emphatically.
If it is I don't want to go.
Anyway, I don't mean to go for ever so long. I mean to live to be a hundred years old, like Mr. Thomas Blewett of White Sands.
He says he's lived so long 'cause he always smoked tobacco and it killed all the germs.
She was happy at the thought of returning to work, classes and Redmond friends. Pleasing visions were also being woven around Patty's Place.
She said it wasn't addressed in your writing, but I thought maybe it was you." "Indeed, no!
I saw the prize offer, but I'd never dream of competing for it.
I think it would be perfectly disgraceful to write a story to advertise a baking powder.
It would be almost as bad as Judson Parker's patent medicine fence." So spake Anne loftily, little dreaming of the valley of humiliation awaiting her.
That very evening Diana popped into the porch gable, bright-eyed and rosy cheeked, carrying a letter. "Oh, Anne, here's a letter for you.
I was at the office, so I thought I'd bring it along.
If it is what I believe it is I shall just be wild with delight.
Anne, puzzled, opened the letter and glanced over the typewritten contents. Miss Anne Shirley, Green Gables, Avonlea, P.E.
Island. "DEAR MADAM: We have much pleasure in informing you that your charming story 'Averil's Atonement' has won the prize of twenty-five dollars offered in our recent competition.
We enclose the check herewith.
We are arranging for the publication of the story in several prominent Canadian newspapers, and we also intend to have it printed in pamphlet form for distribution among our patrons.
When I saw the offer I thought of your story in a minute, and at first I thought I'd ask you to send it in. But then I was afraid you wouldn't-you had so little faith left in it.
So I just decided I'd send the copy you gave me, and say nothing about it.
But you know-I'm so amazed-I can't realize it-and I don't understand.
There wasn't a word in my story about-about-" Anne choked a little over the word-"baking powder." "Oh, _I_ put that in," said Diana, reassured.
It was as easy as wink-and of course my experience in our old Story Club helped me.
You know the scene where Averil makes the cake?
You sent the story in and made the alterations.
I-I would certainly never have sent it.
So you must take the check." "I'd like to see myself," said Diana scornfully.
Why, what I did wasn't any trouble.
The honor of being a friend of the prizewinner is enough for me.
I should have gone straight home from the post office for we have company.
But I simply had to come and hear the news.
Oh, she could never live this down-never! Gilbert arrived at dusk, brimming over with congratulations, for he had called at Orchard Slope and heard the news.
But his congratulations died on his lips at sight of Anne's face. "Why, Anne, what is the matter?
I expected to find you radiant over winning Rollings Reliable prize.
Good for you!" "Oh, Gilbert, not you," implored Anne, in an _et-tu Brute_ tone.
I thought _you_ would understand.
Can't you see how awful it is?" "I must confess I can't. _What_ is wrong?" "Everything," moaned Anne.
I feel as if I were disgraced forever.
What do you think a mother would feel like if she found her child tattooed over with a baking powder advertisement?
I feel just the same.
I loved my poor little story, and I wrote it out of the best that was in me. And it is _sacrilege_ to have it degraded to the level of a baking powder advertisement.
Don't you remember what Professor Hamilton used to tell us in the literature class at Queen's?
He said we were never to write a word for a low or unworthy motive, but always to cling to the very highest ideals.
What will he think when he hears I've written a story to advertise Rollings Reliable?
And, oh, when it gets out at Redmond!
I don't see that there's anything low or unworthy about that, or anything ridiculous either.
One would rather write masterpieces of literature no doubt-but meanwhile board and tuition fees have to be paid." This commonsense, matter-of-fact view of the case cheered Anne a little.
They were all assembled at twilight in the big living-room at Patty's Place-Anne and Priscilla, Phil and Stella, Aunt Jamesina, Rusty, Joseph, the Sarah-Cat, and Gog and Magog.
He sent a complimentary bundle to Anne, who promptly dropped them all in the kitchen stove.
Her humiliation was the consequence of her own ideals only, for Avonlea folks thought it quite splendid that she should have won the prize.
Her many friends regarded her with honest admiration; her few foes with scornful envy.
Josie Pye said she believed Anne Shirley had just copied the story; she was sure she remembered reading it in a paper years before.
The Sloanes, who had found out or guessed that Charlie had been "turned down," said they didn't think it was much to be proud of; almost any one could have done it, if she tried.
And it was very jolly to be back at Redmond, a wise, experienced Soph with hosts of friends to greet on the merry opening day.
Pris and Stella and Gilbert were there, Charlie Sloane, looking more important than ever a Sophomore looked before, Phil, with the Alec-and-Alonzo question still unsettled, and Moody Spurgeon MacPherson.
Moody Spurgeon had been teaching school ever since leaving Queen's, but his mother had concluded it was high time he gave it up and turned his attention to learning how to be a minister.
Poor Moody Spurgeon fell on hard luck at the very beginning of his college career.
Half a dozen ruthless Sophs, who were among his fellow-boarders, swooped down upon him one night and shaved half of his head.
In this guise the luckless Moody Spurgeon had to go about until his hair grew again.
He told Anne bitterly that there were times when he had his doubts as to whether he was really called to be a minister. Aunt Jamesina did not come until the girls had Patty's Place ready for her.
The living room had been newly papered five years before and she and Miss Maria did not want any more holes made in that new paper than was absolutely necessary.
For the rest she trusted everything to Anne. How those girls enjoyed putting their nest in order!
As Phil said, it was almost as good as getting married.
You had the fun of homemaking without the bother of a husband.
All brought something with them to adorn or make comfortable the little house.
Marilla had sent a big box of preserves, and darkly hinted at a hamper for Thanksgiving, and Mrs. Lynde gave Anne a patchwork quilt and loaned her five more. "You take them," she said authoritatively.
He said his mother used to make quilts like that, and by Jove, he wanted one to remind him of her.
Patty's Place for all its many virtues, had its faults also.
It was really a rather cold house; and when the frosty nights came the girls were very glad to snuggle down under Mrs. Lynde's quilts, and hoped that the loan of them might be accounted unto her for righteousness.
Anne had the blue room she had coveted at sight.
Priscilla and Stella had the large one.
Anne wondered uneasily what was the matter with her. Was her hat crooked?
Craning her head to investigate, Anne, for the first time, saw Rusty. Trotting along behind her, close to her heels, was quite the most forlorn specimen of the cat tribe she had ever beheld.
The animal was well past kitten-hood, lank, thin, disreputable looking.
Pieces of both ears were lacking, one eye was temporarily out of repair, and one jowl ludicrously swollen.
As for color, if a once black cat had been well and thoroughly singed the result would have resembled the hue of this waif's thin, draggled, unsightly fur. Anne "shooed," but the cat would not "shoo.
As long as she stood he sat back on his haunches and gazed at her reproachfully out of his one good eye; when she resumed her walk he followed.
More, he promptly darted in and sprang upon Anne's lap with a half-pleading, half-triumphant "miaow." "Anne," said Stella severely, "do you own that animal?" "No, I do _not_," protested disgusted Anne.
The creature followed me home from somewhere.
I couldn't get rid of him.
I like decent cats reasonably well; but I don't like beasties of your complexion." Pussy, however, refused to get down.
He coolly curled up in Anne's lap and began to purr. "He has evidently adopted you," laughed Priscilla. "I won't BE adopted," said Anne stubbornly. "The poor creature is starving," said Phil pityingly.
Why, his bones are almost coming through his skin." "Well, I'll give him a square meal and then he must return to whence he came," said Anne resolutely. The cat was fed and put out.
In the morning he was still on the doorstep.
On the doorstep he continued to sit, bolting in whenever the door was opened.
No coolness of welcome had the least effect on him; of nobody save Anne did he take the least notice.
Out of compassion the girls fed him; but when a week had passed they decided that something must be done.
The cat's appearance had improved.
His eye and cheek had resumed their normal appearance; he was not quite so thin; and he had been seen washing his face. "But for all that we can't keep him," said Stella.
Aunt Jimsie is coming next week and she will bring the Sarah-cat with her.
We can't keep two cats; and if we did this Rusty Coat would fight all the time with the Sarah-cat.
He's a fighter by nature.
How can four unprotected females get rid of a cat who won't be got rid of?" "We must chloroform him," said Phil briskly.
That is the most humane way." "Who of us knows anything about chloroforming a cat?" demanded Anne gloomily. "I do, honey.
It's one of my few-sadly few-useful accomplishments.
I've disposed of several at home.
You take the cat in the morning and give him a good breakfast.
Then you take an old burlap bag-there's one in the back porch-put the cat on it and turn over him a wooden box.
Then take a two-ounce bottle of chloroform, uncork it, and slip it under the edge of the box.
Put a heavy weight on top of the box and leave it till evening.
The cat will be dead, curled up peacefully as if he were asleep.
No pain-no struggle." "It sounds easy," said Anne dubiously. "It _is_ easy.
Just leave it to me.
I'll see to it," said Phil reassuringly. Accordingly the chloroform was procured, and the next morning Rusty was lured to his doom.
He ate his breakfast, licked his chops, and climbed into Anne's lap.
This poor creature loved her-trusted her.
How could she be a party to this destruction? "Here, take him," she said hastily to Phil.
I feel like a murderess." "He won't suffer, you know," comforted Phil, but Anne had fled. The fatal deed was done in the back porch.
Nobody went near it that day.
But at dusk Phil declared that Rusty must be buried. "Pris and Stella must dig his grave in the orchard," declared Phil, "and Anne must come with me to lift the box off.
That's the part I always hate." The two conspirators tip-toed reluctantly to the back porch.
Phil gingerly lifted the stone she had put on the box.
Suddenly, faint but distinct, sounded an unmistakable mew under the box. "He-he isn't dead," gasped Anne, sitting blankly down on the kitchen doorstep. "He must be," said Phil incredulously. Another tiny mew proved that he wasn't.
The two girls stared at each other. "What will we do?" questioned Anne. "Why in the world don't you come?" demanded Stella, appearing in the doorway.
We've got the grave ready.
Perhaps the mews we heard were his dying groan.
That's why he didn't die.
Now, we've got to do it all over again." "No, we haven't," declared Anne suddenly.
Rusty isn't going to be killed again.
He slept o'nights on the scrubbing cushion in the back porch and lived on the fat of the land. By the time Aunt Jamesina came he was plump and glossy and tolerably respectable.
But, like Kipling's cat, he "walked by himself.
His paw was against every cat, and every cat's paw against him.
One by one he vanquished the aristocratic felines of Spofford Avenue.
As for human beings, he loved Anne and Anne alone.
Nobody else even dared stroke him.
Cat-fights in the orchard o'nights are bad enough.
But cat-fights here in the livingroom are unthinkable.
In due time Aunt Jamesina arrived.
She had pink cheeks and snow-white hair which she wore in quaint little puffs over her ears. "It's a very old-fashioned way," she said, knitting industriously at something as dainty and pink as a sunset cloud.
My clothes are, and it stands to reason my opinions are, too.
I don't say they're any the better of that, mind you.
In fact, I daresay they're a good deal the worse.
But they've worn nice and easy. New shoes are smarter than old ones, but the old ones are more comfortable.
I'm old enough to indulge myself in the matter of shoes and opinions.
I mean to take it real easy here.
I know you expect me to look after you and keep you proper, but I'm not going to do it.
You're old enough to know how to behave if you're ever going to be.
He's a beautiful cat-that is, his disposition is beautiful.
She called him Joseph because his coat is of many colors." It certainly was.
Joseph, as the disgusted Stella said, looked like a walking rag-bag.
It was impossible to say what his ground color was. His legs were white with black spots on them.
His back was gray with a huge patch of yellow on one side and a black patch on the other.
His tail was yellow with a gray tip.
One ear was black and one yellow.
A black patch over one eye gave him a fearfully rakish look.
In reality he was meek and inoffensive, of a sociable disposition.
In one respect, if in no other, Joseph was like a lily of the field.
He toiled not neither did he spin or catch mice.
Yet Solomon in all his glory slept not on softer cushions, or feasted more fully on fat things. Joseph and the Sarah-cat arrived by express in separate boxes.
After they had been released and fed, Joseph selected the cushion and corner which appealed to him, and the Sarah-cat gravely sat herself down before the fire and proceeded to wash her face.
She was a large, sleek, gray-and-white cat, with an enormous dignity which was not at all impaired by any consciousness of her plebian origin.
She had been given to Aunt Jamesina by her washerwoman. "Her name was Sarah, so my husband always called puss the Sarah-cat," explained Aunt Jamesina.
She is eight years old, and a remarkable mouser.
The Sarah-cat _never_ fights and Joseph rarely." "They'll have to fight here in self-defense," said Stella. At this juncture Rusty arrived on the scene.
He bounded joyously half way across the room before he saw the intruders.
Then he stopped short; his tail expanded until it was as big as three tails.
She met his onslaught with one contemptuous sweep of her capable paw.
Rusty went rolling helplessly over on the rug; he picked himself up dazedly.
What sort of a cat was this who had boxed his ears? He looked dubiously at the Sarah-cat.
Would he or would he not?
The Sarah-cat deliberately turned her back on him and resumed her toilet operations.
Rusty decided that he would not.
From that time on the Sarah-cat ruled the roost.
Rusty never again interfered with her. But Joseph rashly sat up and yawned.
Rusty, burning to avenge his disgrace, swooped down upon him.
Joseph, pacific by nature, could fight upon occasion and fight well.
The result was a series of drawn battles. Every day Rusty and Joseph fought at sight.
Anne took Rusty's part and detested Joseph.
But Aunt Jamesina only laughed. "Let them fight it out," she said tolerantly.
They'll make friends after a bit.
Joseph needs some exercise-he was getting too fat.
And Rusty has to learn he isn't the only cat in the world." Eventually Joseph and Rusty accepted the situation and from sworn enemies became sworn friends.
They slept on the same cushion with their paws about each other, and gravely washed each other's faces. "We've all got used to each other," said Phil.
Kittens _have_ to be drowned, I admit, or the world would be overrun.
But no decent, grown-up cat should be done to death-unless he sucks eggs." "You wouldn't have thought Rusty very decent if you'd seen him when he came here," said Stella.
He positively looked like the Old Nick." "I don't believe Old Nick can be so very ugly," said Aunt Jamesina reflectively.
I never noticed before what exquisite things snowflakes really are.
One has time to notice things like that in the simple life.
Bless you all for permitting me to live it.
It's really delightful to feel worried because butter has gone up five cents a pound." "Has it?" demanded Stella, who kept the household accounts. "It has-and here's your butter.
I'm getting quite expert at marketing. It's better fun than flirting," concluded Phil gravely. "Everything is going up scandalously," sighed Stella. "Never mind.
Thank goodness air and salvation are still free," said Aunt Jamesina. "And so is laughter," added Anne.
There's no tax on it yet and that is well, because you're all going to laugh presently.
I'm going to read you Davy's letter.
His spelling has improved immensely this past year, though he is not strong on apostrophes, and he certainly possesses the gift of writing an interesting letter.
Listen and laugh, before we settle down to the evening's study-grind." "Dear Anne," ran Davy's letter, "I take my pen to tell you that we are all pretty well and hope this will find you the same.
It's snowing some today and Marilla says the old woman in the sky is shaking her feather beds.
Is the old woman in the sky God's wife, Anne?
I want to know. "Mrs. Lynde has been real sick but she is better now.
She fell down the cellar stairs last week.
When she fell she grabbed hold of the shelf with all the milk pails and stewpans on it, and it gave way and went down with her and made a splendid crash.
The doctor said it was a wonder it dident kill her but it dident and it cured her ribs and Mrs. Lynde says doctors dont know much anyhow.
But we couldent fix up the stewpan.
Marilla had to throw it out.
Thanksgiving was last week. There was no school and we had a great dinner.
I et mince pie and rost turkey and frut cake and donuts and cheese and jam and choklut cake. Marilla said I'd die but I dident.
Dora had earake after it, only it wasent in her ears it was in her stummick.
I dident have earake anywhere. "Our new teacher is a man.
He does things for jokes.
Last week he made all us third-class boys write a composishun on what kind of a wife we'd like to have and the girls on what kind of a husband.
He laughed fit to kill when he read them.
I thought youd like to see it. "'The kind of a wife I'd like to Have. "'She must have good manners and get my meals on time and do what I tell her and always be very polite to me.
She must be fifteen yers old. She must be good to the poor and keep her house tidy and be good tempered and go to church regularly.
She must be very handsome and have curly hair.
If I get a wife that is just what I like Ill be an awful good husband to her.
I think a woman ought to be awful good to her husband.
Some poor women haven't any husbands. "'THE END.'" "I was at Mrs. Isaac Wrights funeral at White Sands last week.
The husband of the corpse felt real sorry.
Mrs. Lynde says Mrs. Wrights grandfather stole a sheep but Marilla says we mustent speak ill of the dead.
It's pretty safe, ain't it? "Mrs. Lynde was awful mad the other day because I asked her if she was alive in Noah's time.
I dident mean to hurt her feelings.
I just wanted to know.
Was she, Anne? "Mr. Harrison wanted to get rid of his dog.
So he hunged him once but he come to life and scooted for the barn while Mr. Harrison was digging the grave, so he hunged him again and he stayed dead that time.
Mr. Harrison has a new man working for him.
Mr. Harrison says he is left handed in both his feet.
Mrs. Lynde says it was a judgment on her for pride.
But I think it was hard on the pig.
Milty Boulter has been sick.
The doctor gave him medicine and it tasted horrid.
I offered to take it for him for a quarter but the Boulters are so mean.
Milty says he'd rather take it himself and save his money.
I asked Mrs. Boulter how a person would go about catching a man and she got awful mad and said she dident know, shed never chased men. "The A.V.I.S. is going to paint the hall again.
They're tired of having it blue. "The new minister was here to tea last night.
He took three pieces of pie.
If I did that Mrs. Lynde would call me piggy.
And he et fast and took big bites and Marilla is always telling me not to do that.
Why can ministers do what boys can't?
I want to know. "I haven't any more news.
Here are six kisses. xxxxxx.
Dora sends one. Heres hers. x. "Your loving friend DAVID KEITH" "P.S. Anne, who was the devils father?
And I'm not going to leave the poor creatures here alone for nearly three weeks.
If we had any decent neighbors who would feed them I might, but there's nothing except millionaires on this street.
So I'll stay here and keep Patty's Place warm for you." Anne went home with the usual joyous anticipations-which were not wholly fulfilled.
She found Avonlea in the grip of such an early, cold, and stormy winter as even the "oldest inhabitant" could not recall. Green Gables was literally hemmed in by huge drifts.
Almost every day of that ill-starred vacation it stormed fiercely; and even on fine days it drifted unceasingly.
No sooner were the roads broken than they filled in again.
It was almost impossible to stir out.
The A.V.I.S. tried, on three evenings, to have a party in honor of the college students, and on each evening the storm was so wild that nobody could go, so they gave up the attempt in despair.
Gilbert, to be sure, was still faithful, and waded up to Green Gables every possible evening. But Gilbert's visits were not what they once were.
Anne wished herself back at Patty's Place, where there was always somebody else about to take the edge off a delicate situation.
At Green Gables Marilla went promptly to Mrs. Lynde's domain when Gilbert came and insisted on taking the twins with her.
The significance of this was unmistakable and Anne was in a helpless fury over it. Davy, however, was perfectly happy.
He reveled in getting out in the morning and shoveling out the paths to the well and henhouse.
I'd ever so much rather read it than the Bible." "Would you?" smiled Anne. Davy peered curiously at her. "You don't seem a bit shocked, Anne.
Mrs. Lynde was awful shocked when I said it to her." "No, I'm not shocked, Davy.
That story about Joseph now-it's bully.
But if I'd been Joseph _I_ wouldn't have forgive the brothers.
I'd have cut all their heads off.
Mrs. Lynde was awful mad when I said that and shut the Bible up and said she'd never read me any more of it if I talked like that.
So I don't talk now when she reads it Sunday afternoons; I just think things and say them to Milty Boulter next day in school.
I told Milty the story about Elisha and the bears and it scared him so he's never made fun of Mr. Harrison's bald head once.
Are there any bears on P.E. Island, Anne?
I want to know." "Not nowadays," said Anne, absently, as the wind blew a scud of snow against the window.
Oh, dear, will it ever stop storming." "God knows," said Davy airily, preparing to resume his reading. Anne _was_ shocked this time. "Davy!" she exclaimed reproachfully. "Mrs. Lynde says that," protested Davy.
It isn't right for anybody to take that name in vain or speak it lightly, Davy.
Don't ever do it again." "Not if I say it slow and solemn, like the minister?" queried Davy gravely. "No, not even then." "Well, I won't.
Ludovic Speed and Theodora Dix live in Middle Grafton and Mrs. Rachel says he has been courting her for a hundred years. Won't they soon be too old to get married, Anne?
I hope Gilbert won't court _you_ that long.
When are you going to be married, Anne?
Mrs. Lynde says it's a sure thing." "Mrs. Lynde is a-" began Anne hotly; then stopped.
Awful old gossip," completed Davy calmly.
That's what every one calls her.
But is it a sure thing, Anne?
I want to know." "You're a very silly little boy, Davy," said Anne, stalking haughtily out of the room.
The kitchen was deserted and she sat down by the window in the fast falling wintry twilight.
The sun had set and the wind had died down.
A pale chilly moon looked out behind a bank of purple clouds in the west.
Anne looked across the still, white fields, cold and lifeless in the harsh light of that grim sunset, and sighed.
She was very lonely; and she was sad at heart; for she was wondering if she would be able to return to Redmond next year.
It did not seem likely. The only scholarship possible in the Sophomore year was a very small affair.
And by that time all my old class will have graduated and Patty's Place will be out of the question.
I'm not going to be a coward.
I'm thankful I can earn my way through if necessary." "Here's Mr. Harrison wading up the lane," announced Davy, running out. "I hope he's brought the mail.
It's three days since we got it.
I want to see what them pesky Grits are doing.
And I tell you, you have to keep your eye on them Grits." Mr. Harrison had brought the mail, and merry letters from Stella and Priscilla and Phil soon dissipated Anne's blues.
It's real company to hear her purring when I wake up in the night and think of my poor daughter in the foreign field.
If it was anywhere but in India I wouldn't worry, but they say the snakes out there are terrible.
It takes all the Sarah-cats's purring to drive away the thought of those snakes.
I have enough faith for everything but the snakes.
I can't think why Providence ever made them.
Sometimes I don't think He did.
I'm inclined to believe the Old Harry had a hand in making _them_." Anne had left a thin, typewritten communication till the last, thinking it unimportant.
When she had read it she sat very still, with tears in her eyes. "What is the matter, Anne?" asked Marilla. "Miss Josephine Barry is dead," said Anne, in a low tone. "So she has gone at last," said Marilla.
Well, she has been sick for over a year, and the Barrys have been expecting to hear of her death any time.
It is well she is at rest for she has suffered dreadfully, Anne.
She was always kind to you." "She has been kind to the last, Marilla.
This letter is from her lawyer.
She has left me a thousand dollars in her will." "Gracious, ain't that an awful lot of money," exclaimed Davy.
She's the woman you and Diana lit on when you jumped into the spare room bed, ain't she?
Diana told me that story.
Is that why she left you so much?" "Hush, Davy," said Anne gently.
She slipped away to the porch gable with a full heart, leaving Marilla and Mrs. Lynde to talk over the news to their hearts' content. "Do you s'pose Anne will ever get married now?" speculated Davy anxiously.
They were alone in the living room.
Stella and Priscilla had gone to a committee meeting and Phil was upstairs adorning herself for a party. "I suppose you feel kind of, sorry" said Aunt Jamesina.
The teens are such a nice part of life.
I'm glad I've never gone out of them myself." Anne laughed. "You never will, Aunty.
You'll be eighteen when you should be a hundred.
Yes, I'm sorry, and a little dissatisfied as well.
Miss Stacy told me long ago that by the time I was twenty my character would be formed, for good or evil.
I don't feel that it's what it should be. It's full of flaws." "So's everybody's," said Aunt Jamesina cheerfully.
Mine's cracked in a hundred places.
Your Miss Stacy likely meant that when you are twenty your character would have got its permanent bent in one direction or 'tother, and would go on developing in that line.
Don't worry over it, Anne.
Do your duty by God and your neighbor and yourself, and have a good time.
That's my philosophy and it's always worked pretty well. Where's Phil off to tonight?" "She's going to a dance, and she's got the sweetest dress for it-creamy yellow silk and cobwebby lace.
It just suits those brown tints of hers." "There's magic in the words 'silk' and 'lace,' isn't there?" said Aunt Jamesina.
The very sound of them makes me feel like skipping off to a dance.
It makes one think of a dress of sunshine.
I always wanted a yellow silk dress, but first my mother and then my husband wouldn't hear of it.
Do I look pretty nice, Anne?" "Do you really know how pretty you are, Phil?" asked Anne, in honest admiration. "Of course I do.
What are looking glasses and men for?
That wasn't what I meant.
Are all my ends tucked in?
And would this rose look better lower down?
I'm afraid it's too high-it will make me look lop-sided.
But I hate things tickling my ears." "Everything is just right, and that southwest dimple of yours is lovely." "Anne, there's one thing in particular I like about you-you're so ungrudging.
There isn't a particle of envy in you." "Why should she be envious?" demanded Aunt Jamesina.
And that one wee curl, always looking as if it were going to drop, but never dropping, is delicious.
But as for noses, mine is a dreadful worry to me.
I know by the time I'm forty it will be Byrney.
I won't go to a dance all over cat hairs.
No, Anne, I _won't_ look matronly.
As for Alec and Alonzo, if you knew them you'd understand why it's difficult to choose between them.
They're equally nice." "Then take somebody who is nicer" suggested Aunt Jamesina.
There's that Senior who is so devoted to you-Will Leslie.
You can't find a fault with him." "No, he would do if he wasn't poor.
I must marry a rich man, Aunt Jamesina.
That-and good looks-is an indispensable qualification.
I'd marry Gilbert Blythe if he were rich." "Oh, would you?" said Anne, rather viciously. "We don't like that idea a little bit, although we don't want Gilbert ourselves, oh, no," mocked Phil.
But don't let's talk of disagreeable subjects.
It's just her way of talking." Aunt Jamesina shook her head. "Well, I hope so, Anne.
I do hope so, because I love her.
But _I_ can't understand her-she beats me.
Now that spring examinations were over she was treating herself to Dickens. "It has been a prosy day for us," she said thoughtfully, "but to some people it has been a wonderful day.
Some one has been rapturously happy in it.
Perhaps a great deed has been done somewhere today-or a great poem written-or a great man born.
And some heart has been broken, Phil." "Why did you spoil your pretty thought by tagging that last sentence on, honey?" grumbled Phil.
I don't like to think of broken hearts-or anything unpleasant." "Do you think you'll be able to shirk unpleasant things all your life, Phil?" "Dear me, no. Am I not up against them now?
You don't call Alec and Alonzo pleasant things, do you, when they simply plague my life out?" "You never take anything seriously, Phil." "Why should I?
There are enough folks who do.
The world needs people like me, Anne, just to amuse it.
It would be a terrible place if _everybody_ were intellectual and serious and in deep, deadly earnest. MY mission is, as _Josiah Allen_ says, 'to charm and allure.
Hasn't life at Patty's Place been really much brighter and pleasanter this past winter because I've been here to leaven you?" "Yes, it has," owned Anne. "And you all love me-even Aunt Jamesina, who thinks I'm stark mad.
So why should I try to be different?
Oh, dear, I'm so sleepy.
I was awake until one last night, reading a harrowing ghost story.
I read it in bed, and after I had finished it do you suppose I could get out of bed to put the light out?
And if Stella had not fortunately come in late that lamp would have burned good and bright till morning.
When I heard Stella I called her in, explained my predicament, and got her to put out the light.
If I had got out myself to do it I knew something would grab me by the feet when I was getting in again.
By the way, Anne, has Aunt Jamesina decided what to do this summer?" "Yes, she's going to stay here.
There's so much good eating in it.
The characters seem always to be reveling on ham and eggs and milk punch.
I generally go on a cupboard rummage after reading _Pickwick_.
The mere thought reminds me that I'm starving.
Is there any tidbit in the pantry, Queen Anne?" "I made a lemon pie this morning.
You may have a piece of it." Phil dashed out to the pantry and Anne betook herself to the orchard in company with Rusty.
It was a moist, pleasantly-odorous night in early spring.
The snow was not quite all gone from the park; a little dingy bank of it yet lay under the pines of the harbor road, screened from the influence of April suns.
It kept the harbor road muddy, and chilled the evening air.
But grass was growing green in sheltered spots and Gilbert had found some pale, sweet arbutus in a hidden corner.
She was building a castle in air-a wondrous mansion whose sunlit courts and stately halls were steeped in Araby's perfume, and where she reigned queen and chatelaine.
She frowned as she saw Gilbert coming through the orchard.
Of late she had managed not to be left alone with Gilbert.
I'm going to visit with Phil in Bolingbroke before I go home.
You'll be in Avonlea before I will." "No, I shall not be in Avonlea at all this summer, Anne.
I've been offered a job in the Daily News office and I'm going to take it." "Oh," said Anne vaguely.
She wondered what a whole Avonlea summer would be like without Gilbert.
Somehow she did not like the prospect.
Well," she concluded flatly, "it is a good thing for you, of course." "Yes, I've been hoping I would get it.
It will help me out next year." "You mustn't work _too_ hard," said Anne, without any very clear idea of what she was saying.
She wished desperately that Phil would come out.
You've studied very constantly this winter.
Isn't this a delightful evening?
Do you know, I found a cluster of white violets under that old twisted tree over there today?
There is something I want to say to you." "Oh, don't say it," cried Anne, pleadingly.
Things can't go on like this any longer.
I-I can't tell you how much.
Will you promise me that some day you'll be my wife?" "I-I can't," said Anne miserably.
Oh, Gilbert-you-you've spoiled everything." "Don't you care for me at all?
Gilbert asked after a very dreadful pause, during which Anne had not dared to look up. "Not-not in that way.
I do care a great deal for you as a friend.
But I don't love you, Gilbert." "But can't you give me some hope that you will-yet?" "No, I can't," exclaimed Anne desperately.
I never, never can love you-in that way-Gilbert.
You must never speak of this to me again." There was another pause-so long and so dreadful that Anne was driven at last to look up.
Gilbert's face was white to the lips.
And his eyes-but Anne shuddered and looked away.
There was nothing romantic about this. Must proposals be either grotesque or-horrible?
Could she ever forget Gilbert's face? "Is there anybody else?" he asked at last in a low voice. "No-no," said Anne eagerly.
I don't care for any one like _that_-and I _like_ you better than anybody else in the world, Gilbert.
And we must-we must go on being friends, Gilbert." Gilbert gave a bitter little laugh. "Friends!
Your friendship can't satisfy me, Anne.
I want your love-and you tell me I can never have that." "I'm sorry.
Forgive me, Gilbert," was all Anne could say.
Where, oh, where were all the gracious and graceful speeches wherewith, in imagination, she had been wont to dismiss rejected suitors? Gilbert released her hand gently. "There isn't anything to forgive.
There have been times when I thought you did care.
I've deceived myself, that's all.
Goodbye, Anne." Anne got herself to her room, sat down on her window seat behind the pines, and cried bitterly.
She felt as if something incalculably precious had gone out of her life.
It was Gilbert's friendship, of course.
Oh, why must she lose it after this fashion? "What is the matter, honey?" asked Phil, coming in through the moonlit gloom. Anne did not answer.
At that moment she wished Phil were a thousand miles away. "I suppose you've gone and refused Gilbert Blythe.
You are an idiot, Anne Shirley!" "Do you call it idiotic to refuse to marry a man I don't love?" said Anne coldly, goaded to reply. "You don't know love when you see it.
You've tricked something out with your imagination that you think love, and you expect the real thing to look like that.
There, that's the first sensible thing I've ever said in my life.
I wonder how I managed it?" "Phil," pleaded Anne, "please go away and leave me alone for a little while.
My world has tumbled into pieces.
I want to reconstruct it." "Without any Gilbert in it?" said Phil, going. A world without any Gilbert in it!
Anne repeated the words drearily. Would it not be a very lonely, forlorn place?
Well, it was all Gilbert's fault.
He had spoiled their beautiful comradeship.
There was not, however, much time to think about him.
Mount Holly," the beautiful old Gordon homestead, was a very gay place, overrun by Phil's friends of both sexes.
She looked at it with delighted eyes, as she and Phil turned in at the gate. "It's almost exactly as I've pictured it," she said.
There is no honeysuckle over the windows, but there is a lilac tree by the gate, and-yes, there are the muslin curtains in the windows.
How glad I am it is still painted yellow." A very tall, very thin woman opened the door. "Yes, the Shirleys lived here twenty years ago," she said, in answer to Anne's question.
They both died of fever at onct.
I guess it's dead long ago.
It was a sickly thing.
Old Thomas and his wife took it-as if they hadn't enough of their own." "It didn't die," said Anne, smiling.
I was that baby." "You don't say so!
Why, you have grown," exclaimed the woman, as if she were much surprised that Anne was not still a baby.
Come to look at you, I see the resemblance.
You're complected like your pa.
But you favor your ma in your eyes and mouth.
She was a nice little thing.
My darter went to school to her and was nigh crazy about her.
They was buried in the one grave and the School Board put up a tombstone to them as a reward for faithful service.
Will you come in?" "Will you let me go all over the house?" asked Anne eagerly. "Laws, yes, you can if you like.
Twon't take you long-there ain't much of it.
I keep at my man to build a new kitchen, but he ain't one of your hustlers.
The parlor's in there and there's two rooms upstairs. Just prowl about yourselves.
I've got to see to the baby.
It was as a shrine to her.
Here her mother had dreamed the exquisite, happy dreams of anticipated motherhood; here that red sunrise light had fallen over them both in the sacred hour of birth; here her mother had died.
Anne looked about her reverently, her eyes with tears.
I dunno what they are-I never bothered to look in 'em, but the address on the top one is 'Miss Bertha Willis,' and that was your ma's maiden name.
You can take 'em if you'd keer to have 'em." "Oh, thank you-thank you," cried Anne, clasping the packet rapturously. "That was all that was in the house," said her hostess.
The furniture was all sold to pay the doctor bills, and Mrs. Thomas got your ma's clothes and little things.
I reckon they didn't last long among that drove of Thomas youngsters.
They was destructive young animals, as I mind 'em." "I haven't one thing that belonged to my mother," said Anne, chokily. "I-I can never thank you enough for these letters." "You're quite welcome.
Laws, but your eyes is like your ma's.
She could just about talk with hers.
Your father was sorter homely but awful nice.
She went alone to the green corner of the "old" Bolingbroke cemetery where her father and mother were buried, and left on their grave the white flowers she carried.
Then she hastened back to Mount Holly, shut herself up in her room, and read the letters. Some were written by her father, some by her mother.
There were not many-only a dozen in all-for Walter and Bertha Shirley had not been often separated during their courtship.
The letters were yellow and faded and dim, blurred with the touch of passing years.
No profound words of wisdom were traced on the stained and wrinkled pages, but only lines of love and trust.
The sweetness of forgotten things clung to them-the far-off, fond imaginings of those long-dead lovers.
Bertha Shirley had possessed the gift of writing letters which embodied the charming personality of the writer in words and thoughts that retained their beauty and fragrance after the lapse of time.
The letters were tender, intimate, sacred.
To Anne, the sweetest of all was the one written after her birth to the father on a brief absence.
It was full of a proud young mother's accounts of "baby"-her cleverness, her brightness, her thousand sweetnesses. "I love her best when she is asleep and better still when she is awake," Bertha Shirley had written in the postscript.
Probably it was the last sentence she had ever penned.
The end was very near for her. "This has been the most beautiful day of my life," Anne said to Phil that night.
I've FOUND my father and mother.
Those letters have made them REAL to me.
I'm not an orphan any longer.
Marilla was sitting by the fire-at least, in body.
In spirit she was roaming olden ways, with feet grown young.
And the coming of Anne-the vivid, imaginative, impetuous child with her heart of love, and her world of fancy, bringing with her color and warmth and radiance, until the wilderness of existence had blossomed like the rose.
Marilla felt that out of her sixty years she had lived only the nine that had followed the advent of Anne.
And Anne would be home tomorrow night. The kitchen door opened.
Marilla looked up expecting to see Mrs. Lynde. Anne stood before her, tall and starry-eyed, with her hands full of Mayflowers and violets. "Anne Shirley!" exclaimed Marilla.
For once in her life she was surprised out of her reserve; she caught her girl in her arms and crushed her and her flowers against her heart, kissing the bright hair and sweet face warmly.
I never looked for you till tomorrow night.
How did you get from Carmody?" "Walked, dearest of Marillas.
Haven't I done it a score of times in the Queen's days?
The mailman is to bring my trunk tomorrow; I just got homesick all at once, and came a day earlier.
I've had such a lovely walk in the May twilight; I stopped by the barrens and picked these Mayflowers; I came through Violet-Vale; it's just a big bowlful of violets now-the dear, sky-tinted things.
Smell them, Marilla-drink them in." Marilla sniffed obligingly, but she was more interested in Anne than in drinking violets. "Sit down, child.
You must be real tired.
I'm going to get you some supper." "There's a darling moonrise behind the hills tonight, Marilla, and oh, how the frogs sang me home from Carmody!
I do love the music of the frogs.
It seems bound up with all my happiest recollections of old spring evenings.
And it always reminds me of the night I came here first.
Do you remember it, Marilla?" "Well, yes," said Marilla with emphasis.
I'm not likely to forget it ever." "They used to sing so madly in the marsh and brook that year.
I would listen to them at my window in the dusk, and wonder how they could seem so glad and so sad at the same time.
Oh, but it's good to be home again!
See, aren't they sweet?" she went on hurriedly.
The year is a book, isn't it, Marilla?
Spring's pages are written in Mayflowers and violets, summer's in roses, autumn's in red maple leaves, and winter in holly and evergreen." "Did Gilbert do well in his examinations?" persisted Marilla. "Excellently well.
But where are the twins and Mrs. Lynde?" "Rachel and Dora are over at Mr. Harrison's.
Davy is down at Boulters'. I think I hear him coming now." Davy burst in, saw Anne, stopped, and then hurled himself upon her with a joyful yell. "Oh, Anne, ain't I glad to see you!
Say, Anne, I've grown two inches since last fall.
Mrs. Lynde measured me with her tape today, and say, Anne, see my front tooth.
Mrs. Lynde tied one end of a string to it and the other end to the door, and then shut the door.
I sold it to Milty for two cents.
Milty's collecting teeth." "What in the world does he want teeth for?" asked Marilla. "To make a necklace for playing Indian Chief," explained Davy, climbing upon Anne's lap.
I could be sorry for it afterwards, couldn't I?" "Being sorry wouldn't do away with the consequences of being bad, Davy. Don't you remember the Sunday last summer when you ran away from Sunday School?
You told me then that being bad wasn't worth while.
What were you and Milty doing today?" "Oh, we fished and chased the cat, and hunted for eggs, and yelled at the echo.
She is fleeter than a deer, and that mocking voice of hers is all we can know of her.
You can hear her calling at night; you can hear her laughing under the stars.
But you can never see her.
She flies afar if you follow her, and laughs at you always just over the next hill." "Is that true, Anne?
Or is it a whopper?" demanded Davy staring. "Davy," said Anne despairingly, "haven't you sense enough to distinguish between a fairytale and a falsehood?" "Then what is it that sasses back from the Boulter bush?
Who is the lady?" "Stella Fletcher; she's in my class at school.
And say, Anne, she's the prettiest girl you ever saw.
If I die before I grow up you'll keep an eye on her, won't you?" "Davy Keith, do stop talking such nonsense," said Marilla severely. "'Tisn't nonsense," protested Davy in an injured tone.
She's my promised wife, and if I was to die she'd be my promised widow, wouldn't she?
She would not admit, even in her inmost reflections, that this was caused by Gilbert's absence.
Gilbert did not even write to her, as she thought he might have done.
She knew he wrote to Diana occasionally, but she would not inquire about him; and Diana, supposing that Anne heard from him, volunteered no information.
Poor Anne could only blush horribly and murmur, "not very lately," which was taken by all, Mrs. Blythe included, to be merely a maidenly evasion. Apart from this, Anne enjoyed her summer.
But I call her 'Mother Lavendar' and I love her next best to father.
I-I even love her a _little_ better than you, teacher." "Which is just as it ought to be," answered Anne. Paul was thirteen now and very tall for his years.
His face and eyes were as beautiful as ever, and his fancy was still like a prism, separating everything that fell upon it into rainbows.
He and Anne had delightful rambles to wood and field and shore.
Never were there two more thoroughly "kindred spirits." Charlotta the Fourth had blossomed out into young ladyhood.
They said I did at home, but I thought likely they just wanted to aggravate me.
I don't want no Yankee accent.
Not that I've a word to say against the Yankees, Miss Shirley, ma'am. They're real civilized.
But give me old P.E.
He could hardly wait to eat his supper.
Could he not see Nora's elfin face peering around the point, watching for him wistfully?
She is changed." "Oh, Paul, it is you who are changed," said Anne.
You have grown too old for the Rock People.
They like only children for playfellows.
I am afraid the Twin Sailors will never again come to you in the pearly, enchanted boat with the sail of moonshine; and the Golden Lady will play no more for you on her golden harp.
Even Nora will not meet you much longer.
You must pay the penalty of growing-up, Paul.
You must leave fairyland behind you." "You two talk as much foolishness as ever you did," said old Mrs. Irving, half-indulgently, half-reprovingly. "Oh, no, we don't," said Anne, shaking her head gravely.
We are getting very, very wise, and it is such a pity.
We are never half so interesting when we have learned that language is given us to enable us to conceal our thoughts." "But it isn't-it is given us to exchange our thoughts," said Mrs. Irving seriously.
She had never heard of Tallyrand and did not understand epigrams. Anne spent a fortnight of halcyon days at Echo Lodge in the golden prime of August.
I feel like a giant refreshed.
And it's only a fortnight more till I go back to Kingsport, and Redmond and Patty's Place.
Patty's Place is the dearest spot, Miss Lavendar.
I feel as if I had two homes-one at Green Gables and one at Patty's Place.
But where has the summer gone?
It doesn't seem a day since I came home that spring evening with the Mayflowers.
When I was little I couldn't see from one end of the summer to the other.
It stretched before me like an unending season.
I'm going to be impertinent and ask what.
You needn't toss that young head of yours.
It's a fact." Chapter XXIV Enter Jonas "PROSPECT POINT, "August 20th. "Dear Anne-spelled-with-an-E," wrote Phil, "I must prop my eyelids open long enough to write you.
I've neglected you shamefully this summer, honey, but all my other correspondents have been neglected, too.
I have a huge pile of letters to answer, so I must gird up the loins of my mind and hoe in. Excuse my mixed metaphors.
Last night Cousin Emily and I were calling at a neighbor's.
There were several other callers there, and as soon as those unfortunate creatures left, our hostess and her three daughters picked them all to pieces.
I knew they would begin on Cousin Emily and me as soon as the door shut behind us.
When we came home Mrs. Lilly informed us that the aforesaid neighbor's hired boy was supposed to be down with scarlet fever.
You can always trust Mrs. Lilly to tell you cheerful things like that.
I have a horror of scarlet fever.
I couldn't sleep when I went to bed for thinking of it.
I tossed and tumbled about, dreaming fearful dreams when I did snooze for a minute; and at three I wakened up with a high fever, a sore throat, and a raging headache.
I knew I had scarlet fever; I got up in a panic and hunted up Cousin Emily's 'doctor book' to read up the symptoms.
Anne, I had them all.
So I went back to bed, and knowing the worst, slept like a top the rest of the night.
Though why a top should sleep sounder than anything else I never could understand.
But this morning I was quite well, so it couldn't have been the fever.
I suppose if I did catch it last night it couldn't have developed so soon.
I can remember that in daytime, but at three o'clock at night I never can be logical. "I suppose you wonder what I'm doing at Prospect Point.
Well, I always like to spend a month of summer at the shore, and father insists that I come to his second-cousin Emily's 'select boardinghouse' at Prospect Point.
So a fortnight ago I came as usual.
And as usual old 'Uncle Mark Miller' brought me from the station with his ancient buggy and what he calls his 'generous purpose' horse.
He is a nice old man and gave me a handful of pink peppermints.
Peppermints always seem to me such a religious sort of candy-I suppose because when I was a little girl Grandmother Gordon always gave them to me in church.
But I wouldn't hurt his dear old feelings for anything, so I carefully sowed them along the road at intervals.
When the last one was gone, Uncle Mark said, a little rebukingly, 'Ye shouldn't a'et all them candies to onct, Miss Phil.
You'll likely have the stummick-ache.' "Cousin Emily has only five boarders besides myself-four old ladies and one young man.
My right-hand neighbor is Mrs. Lilly.
She is one of those people who seem to take a gruesome pleasure in detailing all their many aches and pains and sicknesses.
You cannot mention any ailment but she says, shaking her head, 'Ah, I know too well what that is'-and then you get all the details.
Jonas declares he once spoke of locomotor ataxia in hearing and she said she knew too well what that was.
She suffered from it for ten years and was finally cured by a traveling doctor. "Who is Jonas?
You'll hear all about Jonas in the proper time and place.
He is not to be mixed up with estimable old ladies. "My left-hand neighbor at the table is Mrs. Phinney.
She always speaks with a wailing, dolorous voice-you are nervously expecting her to burst into tears every moment.
She gives you the impression that life to her is indeed a vale of tears, and that a smile, never to speak of a laugh, is a frivolity truly reprehensible.
She has a worse opinion of me than Aunt Jamesina, and she doesn't love me hard to atone for it, as Aunty J. does, either. "Miss Maria Grimsby sits cati-corner from me.
The first day I came I remarked to Miss Maria that it looked a little like rain-and Miss Maria laughed.
I said the road from the station was very pretty-and Miss Maria laughed.
I said there seemed to be a few mosquitoes left yet-and Miss Maria laughed.
I said that Prospect Point was as beautiful as ever-and Miss Maria laughed.
If I were to say to Miss Maria, 'My father has hanged himself, my mother has taken poison, my brother is in the penitentiary, and I am in the last stages of consumption,' Miss Maria would laugh.
She can't help it-she was born so; but is very sad and awful. "The fifth old lady is Mrs. Grant.
He has a big, loose-jointed figure with absurdly long legs.
Of course he is a graduate of Redmond, and that is a link between us.
We fished and boated together; and we walked on the sands by moonlight.
He didn't look so homely by moonlight and oh, he was nice.
Niceness fairly exhaled from him.
The old ladies-except Mrs. Grant-don't approve of Jonas, because he laughs and jokes-and because he evidently likes the society of frivolous me better than theirs. "Somehow, Anne, I don't want him to think me frivolous.
Why should I care what a tow-haired person called Jonas, whom I never saw before thinks of me? "Last Sunday Jonas preached in the village church.
I went, of course, but I couldn't realize that Jonas was going to preach.
The fact that he was a minister-or going to be one-persisted in seeming a huge joke to me. "Well, Jonas preached.
And, by the time he had preached ten minutes, I felt so small and insignificant that I thought I must be invisible to the naked eye.
Jonas never said a word about women and he never looked at me.
He was everything a minister ought to be.
Oh, I wish I was like _you_, Anne. "He caught up with me on the road home, and grinned as cheerfully as usual.
But his grin could never deceive me again.
I had seen the _real_ Jonas.
I wondered if he could ever see the _real Phil_-whom _nobody_, not even you, Anne, has ever seen yet. "'Jonas,' I said-I forgot to call him Mr. Blake.
Wasn't it dreadful? But there are times when things like that don't matter-'Jonas, you were born to be a minister.
You _couldn't_ be anything else.' "'No, I couldn't,' he said soberly.
I tried to be something else for a long time-I didn't want to be a minister.
But I came to see at last that it was the work given me to do-and God helping me, I shall try to do it.' "His voice was low and reverent.
Ministers never have much money.
But she wouldn't mind having one hat or none at all, because she would have Jonas. "Anne Shirley, don't you dare to say or hint or think that I've fallen in love with Mr. Blake.
Could _I_ care for a lank, poor, ugly theologue-named Jonas?
As Uncle Mark says, 'It's impossible, and what's more it's improbable.' "Good night, PHIL." "P.S. It is impossible-but I am horribly afraid it's true.
I'm happy and wretched and scared. _He_ can _never_ care for me, I know.
Do you think I could ever develop into a passable minister's wife, Anne?
And _would_ they expect me to lead in prayer?
Shall I spend it here where there is a cosy fire, a plateful of delicious russets, three purring and harmonious cats, and two impeccable china dogs with green noses?
But I'll admit my legs aren't as young as yours.
You go and get some fresh air, Anne.
You look pale lately." "I think I'll go to the park," said Anne restlessly.
I don't feel like tame domestic joys today.
I want to feel alone and free and wild.
The park will be empty, for every one will be at the football match." "Why didn't you go to it?" "'Nobody axed me, sir, she said'-at least, nobody but that horrid little Dan Ranger.
I wouldn't go anywhere with him; but rather than hurt his poor little tender feelings I said I wasn't going to the game at all.
I'm not in the mood for football today somehow." "You go and get some fresh air," repeated Aunt Jamesina, "but take your umbrella, for I believe it's going to rain.
I've rheumatism in my leg." "Only old people should have rheumatism, Aunty." "Anybody is liable to rheumatism in her legs, Anne.
It's only old people who should have rheumatism in their souls, though.
Thank goodness, I never have.
When you get rheumatism in your soul you might as well go and pick out your coffin." It was November-the month of crimson sunsets, parting birds, deep, sad hymns of the sea, passionate wind-songs in the pines.
Anne roamed through the pineland alleys in the park and, as she said, let that great sweeping wind blow the fogs out of her soul.
Anne was not wont to be troubled with soul fog.
On Friday evenings the big, fire-lighted livingroom was crowded by callers and echoed to endless jest and laughter, while Aunt Jamesina smiled beamingly on them all.
The "Jonas" of Phil's letter came often, running up from St. Columbia on the early train and departing on the late.
But I was speaking of _ministers_, my dear," said Aunt Jamesina rebukingly.
And you shouldn't flirt so with Mr. Blake-you really shouldn't." "I'm not flirting with him," protested Phil. Nobody believed her, except Anne.
The others thought she was amusing herself as usual, and told her roundly that she was behaving very badly. "Mr. Blake isn't of the Alec-and-Alonzo type, Phil," said Stella severely.
You may break his heart." "Do you really think I could?" asked Phil.
I'd love to think so." "Philippa Gordon!
I never thought you were utterly unfeeling.
The idea of you saying you'd love to break a man's heart!" "I didn't say so, honey.
I said I'd like to think I _could_ break it.
I would like to know I had the _power_ to do it." "I don't understand you, Phil.
He seemed always in good spirits, and held his own in the jests and repartee that flew about.
He neither sought nor avoided Anne.
When circumstances brought them in contact he talked to her pleasantly and courteously, as to any newly-made acquaintance.
The old camaraderie was gone entirely.
Anne felt it keenly; but she told herself she was very glad and thankful that Gilbert had got so completely over his disappointment in regard to her.
She had really been afraid, that April evening in the orchard, that she had hurt him terribly and that the wound would be long in healing.
Now she saw that she need not have worried.
Men have died and the worms have eaten them but not for love.
Gilbert evidently was in no danger of immediate dissolution.
He was enjoying life, and he was full of ambition and zest.
For him there was to be no wasting in despair because a woman was fair and cold.
But Anne snubbed them without fear and without reproach.
If the real Prince Charming was never to come she would have none of a substitute.
So she sternly told herself that gray day in the windy park. Suddenly the rain of Aunt Jamesina's prophecy came with a swish and rush.
Anne put up her umbrella and hurried down the slope.
As she turned out on the harbor road a savage gust of wind tore along it. Instantly her umbrella turned wrong side out.
Anne clutched at it in despair.
And then-there came a voice close to her. "Pardon me-may I offer you the shelter of my umbrella?" Anne looked up.
Tall and handsome and distinguished-looking-dark, melancholy, inscrutable eyes-melting, musical, sympathetic voice-yes, the very hero of her dreams stood before her in the flesh.
He could not have more closely resembled her ideal if he had been made to order. "Thank you," she said confusedly. "We'd better hurry over to that little pavillion on the point," suggested the unknown.
We can wait there until this shower is over.
It is not likely to rain so heavily very long." The words were very commonplace, but oh, the tone!
And the smile which accompanied them!
Anne felt her heart beating strangely. Together they scurried to the pavilion and sat breathlessly down under its friendly roof.
Her cheeks were flushed, her eyes big and starry.
Her companion looked down at her admiringly.
She felt herself blushing under his gaze.
Why, there was a bit of the Redmond white and scarlet pinned to his coat lapel.
Yet she had thought she knew, by sight at least, all the Redmond students except the Freshmen.
And this courtly youth surely was no Freshman. "We are schoolmates, I see," he said, smiling at Anne's colors.
That ought to be sufficient introduction.
My name is Royal Gardner.
And you are the Miss Shirley who read the Tennyson paper at the Philomathic the other evening, aren't you?" "Yes; but I cannot place you at all," said Anne, frankly.
Please, where _do_ you belong?" "I feel as if I didn't belong anywhere yet.
I put in my Freshman and Sophomore years at Redmond two years ago.
I've been in Europe ever since.
Now I've come back to finish my Arts course." "This is my Junior year, too," said Anne. "So we are classmates as well as collegemates.
I am reconciled to the loss of the years that the locust has eaten," said her companion, with a world of meaning in those wonderful eyes of his. The rain came steadily down for the best part of an hour.
But the time seemed really very short.
When the clouds parted and a burst of pale November sunshine fell athwart the harbor and the pines Anne and her companion walked home together.
By the time they had reached the gate of Patty's Place he had asked permission to call, and had received it. Anne went in with cheeks of flame and her heart beating to her fingertips.
Rusty, who climbed into her lap and tried to kiss her, found a very absent welcome.
Anne, with her soul full of romantic thrills, had no attention to spare just then for a crop-eared pussy cat. That evening a parcel was left at Patty's Place for Miss Shirley.
It was a box containing a dozen magnificent roses.
Phil pounced impertinently on the card that fell from it, read the name and the poetical quotation written on the back. "Royal Gardner!" she exclaimed.
Why, Anne, I didn't know you were acquainted with Roy Gardner!" "I met him in the park this afternoon in the rain," explained Anne hurriedly.
My umbrella turned inside out and he came to my rescue with his." "Oh!
Phil peered curiously at Anne.
And is that exceedingly commonplace incident any reason why he should send us longstemmed roses by the dozen, with a very sentimental rhyme?
Or why we should blush divinest rosy-red when we look at his card?
Anne, thy face betrayeth thee." "Don't talk nonsense, Phil.
Do you know Mr. Gardner?" "I've met his two sisters, and I know of him.
So does everybody worthwhile in Kingsport.
The Gardners are among the richest, bluest, of Bluenoses.
Roy is adorably handsome and clever.
Two years ago his mother's health failed and he had to leave college and go abroad with her-his father is dead.
He must have been greatly disappointed to have to give up his class, but they say he was perfectly sweet about it. Fee-fi-fo-fum, Anne.
Almost do I envy you, but not quite.
After all, Roy Gardner isn't Jonas." "You goose!" said Anne loftily.
But she lay long awake that night, nor did she wish for sleep.
Her waking fancies were more alluring than any vision of dreamland.
Had the real Prince come at last?
Anne surveyed herself in the mirror of the blue room with girlish satisfaction.
She had a particularly pretty gown on.
Originally it had been only a simple little slip of cream silk with a chiffon overdress.
But Phil had insisted on taking it home with her in the Christmas holidays and embroidering tiny rosebuds all over the chiffon.
Phil's fingers were deft, and the result was a dress which was the envy of every Redmond girl.
Roy Gardner had sent her white orchids for the reception, and she knew no other Redmond girl would have them that night-when Phil came in with admiring gaze. "Anne, this is certainly your night for looking handsome.
Nine nights out of ten I can easily outshine you.
The tenth you blossom out suddenly into something that eclipses me altogether.
How do you manage it?" "It's the dress, dear.
The last evening you flamed out into beauty you wore your old blue flannel shirtwaist that Mrs. Lynde made you.
If Roy hadn't already lost head and heart about you he certainly would tonight.
But I don't like orchids on you, Anne.
Orchids don't seem to _belong_ to you.
They're too exotic-too tropical-too insolent.
Don't put them in your hair, anyway." "Well, I won't.
I admit I'm not fond of orchids myself.
I don't think they're related to me.
Roy doesn't often send them-he knows I like flowers I can live with.
Orchids are only things you can visit with." "Jonas sent me some dear pink rosebuds for the evening-but-he isn't coming himself.
He said he had to lead a prayer-meeting in the slums!
I don't believe he wanted to come.
Anne, I'm horribly afraid Jonas doesn't really care anything about me.
You know quite well that Jonas loves you." "But-he won't _tell_ me so.
And I can't _make_ him.
He _looks_ it, I'll admit.
But speak-to-me-only-with-thine-eyes isn't a really reliable reason for embroidering doilies and hemstitching tablecloths.
I don't want to begin such work until I'm really engaged.
It would be tempting Fate." "Mr. Blake is afraid to ask you to marry him, Phil.
He is poor and can't offer you a home such as you've always had.
You know that is the only reason he hasn't spoken long ago." "I suppose so," agreed Phil dolefully.
Well"-brightening up-"if he _won't_ ask me to marry him I'll ask him, that's all.
So it's bound to come right.
By the way, Gilbert Blythe is going about constantly with Christine Stuart.
Did you know?" Anne was trying to fasten a little gold chain about her throat.
She suddenly found the clasp difficult to manage. _What_ was the matter with it-or with her fingers? "No," she said carelessly.
Who is Christine Stuart?" "Ronald Stuart's sister.
She's in Kingsport this winter studying music. I haven't seen her, but they say she's very pretty and that Gilbert is quite crazy over her.
How angry I was when you refused Gilbert, Anne. But Roy Gardner was foreordained for you.
You were right, after all." Anne did not blush, as she usually did when the girls assumed that her eventual marriage to Roy Gardner was a settled thing.
All at once she felt rather dull.
Phil's chatter seemed trivial and the reception a bore.
She boxed poor Rusty's ears. "Get off that cushion instantly, you cat, you!
Why don't you stay down where you belong?" Anne picked up her orchids and went downstairs, where Aunt Jamesina was presiding over a row of coats hung before the fire to warm.
Roy Gardner was waiting for Anne and teasing the Sarah-cat while he waited.
The Sarah-cat did not approve of him.
She always turned her back on him. But everybody else at Patty's Place liked him very much.
Aunt Jamesina, carried away by his unfailing and deferential courtesy, and the pleading tones of his delightful voice, declared he was the nicest young man she ever knew, and that Anne was a very fortunate girl.
Such remarks made Anne restive.
Roy's wooing had certainly been as romantic as girlish heart could desire, but-she wished Aunt Jamesina and the girls would not take things so for granted.
When Roy murmured a poetical compliment as he helped her on with her coat, she did not blush and thrill as usual; and he found her rather silent in their brief walk to Redmond.
He thought she looked a little pale when she came out of the coeds' dressing room; but as they entered the reception room her color and sparkle suddenly returned to her.
She turned to Roy with her gayest expression.
He smiled back at her with what Phil called "his deep, black, velvety smile.
Yet she really did not see Roy at all.
She was acutely conscious that Gilbert was standing under the palms just across the room talking to a girl who must be Christine Stuart. She was very handsome, in the stately style destined to become rather massive in middle life.
A tall girl, with large dark-blue eyes, ivory outlines, and a gloss of darkness on her smooth hair. "She looks just as I've always wanted to look," thought Anne miserably. "Rose-leaf complexion-starry violet eyes-raven hair-yes, she has them all.
They were studying hard; even Phil had settled down to text and notebooks with a doggedness not to be expected of her. "I'm going to take the Johnson Scholarship in Mathematics," she announced calmly.
I don't know that it's all for the better.
Can you cook, Phil?" "No, I never cooked anything in my life except a gingerbread and it was a failure-flat in the middle and hilly round the edges.
But, Aunty, when I begin in good earnest to learn to cook don't you think the brains that enable me to win a mathematical scholarship will also enable me to learn cooking just as well?" "Maybe," said Aunt Jamesina cautiously.
I am not decrying the higher education of women.
My daughter is an M.A.
Maria and I are going to run over Egypt.
I want to see the Sphinx once before I die." "Fancy those two dames 'running over Egypt'!
I wonder if they'll look up at the Sphinx and knit," laughed Priscilla. "I'm so glad we can keep Patty's Place for another year," said Stella. "I was afraid they'd come back.
And then our jolly little nest here would be broken up-and we poor callow nestlings thrown out on the cruel world of boardinghouses again." "I'm off for a tramp in the park," announced Phil, tossing her book aside.
Very still and mild it was, wrapped in a great, white, brooding silence-a silence which was yet threaded through with many little silvery sounds which you could hear if you hearkened as much with your soul as your ears.
It's all so wonderful here-this great, white stillness, and those dark trees that always seem to be thinking." "'The woods were God's first temples,'" quoted Anne softly.
One can't help feeling reverent and adoring in such a place.
I always feel so near Him when I walk among the pines." "Anne, I'm the happiest girl in the world," confessed Phil suddenly. "So Mr. Blake has asked you to marry him at last?" said Anne calmly. "Yes.
And I sneezed three times while he was asking me.
But I said 'yes' almost before he finished-I was so afraid he might change his mind and stop.
I couldn't really believe before that Jonas would ever care for frivolous me." "Phil, you're not really frivolous," said Anne gravely.
Way down underneath that frivolous exterior of yours you've got a dear, loyal, womanly little soul.
Why do you hide it so?" "I can't help it, Queen Anne.
You are right-I'm not frivolous at heart. But there's a sort of frivolous skin over my soul and I can't take it off.
As Mrs. Poyser says, I'd have to be hatched over again and hatched different before I could change it.
But Jonas knows the real me and loves me, frivolity and all.
I never was so surprised in my life as I was when I found out I loved him.
I'd never thought it possible to fall in love with an ugly man.
Fancy me coming down to one solitary beau.
But I mean to call him Jo.
That's such a nice, crisp little name.
I couldn't nickname Alonzo." "What about Alec and Alonzo?" "Oh, I told them at Christmas that I never could marry either of them. It seems so funny now to remember that I ever thought it possible that I might.
They felt so badly I just cried over both of them-howled.
But I knew there was only one man in the world I could ever marry.
I had made up my own mind for once and it was real easy, too.
It's very delightful to feel so sure, and know it's your own sureness and not somebody else's." "Do you suppose you'll be able to keep it up?" "Making up my mind, you mean?
I don't know, but Jo has given me a splendid rule.
He says, when I'm perplexed, just to do what I would wish I had done when I shall be eighty.
Anyhow, Jo can make up his mind quickly enough, and it would be uncomfortable to have too much mind in the same house." "What will your father and mother say?" "Father won't say much.
He thinks everything I do right.
Oh, her tongue will be as Byrney as her nose.
But in the end it will be all right." "You'll have to give up a good many things you've always had, when you marry Mr. Blake, Phil." "But I'll have _him_.
I won't miss the other things.
We're to be married a year from next June.
Jo graduates from St. Columbia this spring, you know.
Then he's going to take a little mission church down on Patterson Street in the slums.
Fancy me in the slums!
I shall be poor as gaily as I've been rich.
I'm going to learn how to cook and make over dresses.
I've learned how to market since I've lived at Patty's Place; and once I taught a Sunday School class for a whole summer.
Aunt Jamesina says I'll ruin Jo's career if I marry him.
I know I haven't much sense or sobriety, but I've got what is ever so much better-the knack of making people like me.
There is a man in Bolingbroke who lisps and always testifies in prayer-meeting.
He says, 'If you can't thine like an electric thtar thine like a candlethtick.
I'll be Jo's little candlestick." "Phil, you're incorrigible.
Well, I love you so much that I can't make nice, light, congratulatory little speeches.
But I'm heart-glad of your happiness." "I know.
Those big gray eyes of yours are brimming over with real friendship, Anne.
Some day I'll look the same way at you.
You're going to marry Roy, aren't you, Anne?" "My dear Philippa, did you ever hear of the famous Betty Baxter, who 'refused a man before he'd axed her'?
She felt that she ought to be blushing while making such a confession; but she was not; on the other hand, she always blushed hotly when any one said anything about Gilbert Blythe or Christine Stuart in her hearing.
Gilbert Blythe and Christine Stuart were nothing to her-absolutely nothing.
But Anne had given up trying to analyze the reason of her blushes.
As for Roy, of course she was in love with him-madly so.
How could she help it?
Was he not her ideal?
Who could resist those glorious dark eyes, and that pleading voice?
Were not half the Redmond girls wildly envious?
And what a charming sonnet he had sent her, with a box of violets, on her birthday!
Anne knew every word of it by heart.
It was very good stuff of its kind, too.
Not exactly up to the level of Keats or Shakespeare-even Anne was not so deeply in love as to think that.
But it was very tolerable magazine verse.
She had once told Roy a funny story-and he had not seen the point of it.
She recalled the chummy laugh she and Gilbert had had together over it, and wondered uneasily if life with a man who had no sense of humor might not be somewhat uninteresting in the long run.
But who could expect a melancholy, inscrutable hero to see the humorous side of things?
Davy-boy, why this melancholy November face in blossom-time?" "I'm just sick and tired of living," said the youthful pessimist. "At ten years?
Dear me, how sad!" "I'm not making fun," said Davy with dignity.
I'm dis-dis-discouraged"-bringing out the big word with a valiant effort. "Why and wherefore?" asked Anne, sitting down beside him. "'Cause the new teacher that come when Mr. Holmes got sick give me ten sums to do for Monday.
It'll take me all day tomorrow to do them.
It isn't fair to have to work Saturdays.
Milty Boulter said he wouldn't do them, but Marilla says I've got to.
I don't like Miss Carson a bit." "Don't talk like that about your teacher, Davy Keith," said Mrs. Rachel severely.
Miss Carson is a very fine girl.
There is no nonsense about her." "That doesn't sound very attractive," laughed Anne.
I like people to have a little nonsense about them.
But I'm inclined to have a better opinion of Miss Carson than you have.
I saw her in prayer-meeting last night, and she has a pair of eyes that can't always look sensible.
Now, Davy-boy, take heart of grace.
Tomorrow will bring another day' and I'll help you with the sums as far as in me lies.
Don't waste this lovely hour 'twixt light and dark worrying over arithmetic." "Well, I won't," said Davy, brightening up.
If you help me with the sums I'll have 'em done in time to go fishing with Milty.
I wish old Aunt Atossa's funeral was tomorrow instead of today.
I wanted to go to it 'cause Milty said his mother said Aunt Atossa would be sure to rise up in her coffin and say sarcastic things to the folks that come to see her buried.
But Marilla said she didn't." "Poor Atossa laid in her coffin peaceful enough," said Mrs. Lynde solemnly.
I never saw her look so pleasant before, that's what.
Well, there weren't many tears shed over her, poor old soul.
She was his fourth wife.
He'd sort of got into the habit of marrying.
He only lived a few years after he married her.
The doctor said he died of dyspepsia, but I shall always maintain that he died of Atossa's tongue, that's what.
Poor soul, she always knew everything about her neighbors, but she never was very well acquainted with herself.
Fred Wright has a fine farm and he is a model young man." "He certainly isn't the wild, dashing, wicked, young man Diana once wanted to marry," smiled Anne.
Fred is extremely good." "That's just what he ought to be.
Would you want Diana to marry a wicked man?
Or marry one yourself?" "Oh, no. I wouldn't want to marry anybody who was wicked, but I think I'd like it if he _could_ be wicked and _wouldn't_.
Now, Fred is _hopelessly_ good." "You'll have more sense some day, I hope," said Marilla. Marilla spoke rather bitterly.
She knew Anne had refused Gilbert Blythe.
Avonlea gossip buzzed over the fact, which had leaked out, nobody knew how.
Perhaps Charlie Sloane had guessed and told his guesses for truth.
Perhaps Diana had betrayed it to Fred and Fred had been indiscreet.
At all events it was known; Mrs. Blythe no longer asked Anne, in public or private, if she had heard lately from Gilbert, but passed her by with a frosty bow.
Anne, who had always liked Gilbert's merry, young-hearted mother, was grieved in secret over this.
After that Mrs. Rachel held her tongue, though she still wished in her inmost heart that Anne had accepted Gilbert.
Riches were all very well; but even Mrs. Rachel, practical soul though she was, did not consider them the one essential.
If Anne "liked" the Handsome Unknown better than Gilbert there was nothing more to be said; but Mrs. Rachel was dreadfully afraid that Anne was going to make the mistake of marrying for money.
Marilla knew Anne too well to fear this; but she felt that something in the universal scheme of things had gone sadly awry. "What is to be, will be," said Mrs. Rachel gloomily, "and what isn't to be happens sometimes.
I can't help believing it's going to happen in Anne's case, if Providence doesn't interfere, that's what.
He had gone into the newspaper office again when college closed, and Avonlea seemed very dull without him.
He never wrote to her, and Anne missed the letters that never came.
To be sure, Roy wrote twice a week; his letters were exquisite compositions which would have read beautifully in a memoir or biography.
Anne flung the harmless screed across her room and sat down to write an especially nice epistle to Roy. Diana was to be married in five more days.
The gray house at Orchard Slope was in a turmoil of baking and brewing and boiling and stewing, for there was to be a big, old-timey wedding.
Anne, of course, was to be bridesmaid, as had been arranged when they were twelve years old, and Gilbert was coming from Kingsport to be best man.
Anne was enjoying the excitement of the various preparations, but under it all she carried a little heartache.
She was, in a sense, losing her dear old chum; Diana's new home would be two miles from Green Gables, and the old constant companionship could never be theirs again.
Anne looked up at Diana's light and thought how it had beaconed to her for many years; but soon it would shine through the summer twilights no more.
They are the flowers of love and faith." Diana was standing nervously in the middle of the room, arrayed in her bridal white, her black curls frosted over with the film of her wedding veil.
I haven't the puffed sleeves-though these short lace ones are even prettier.
Neither is my heart wholly breaking nor do I exactly hate Fred." "We are not really parting, Anne," protested Diana.
I'm not going far away.
We'll love each other just as much as ever.
We've always kept that 'oath' of friendship we swore long ago, haven't we?" "Yes.
We've had a beautiful friendship, Diana.
We've never marred it by one quarrel or coolness or unkind word; and I hope it will always be so.
But things can't be quite the same after this.
I'll just be on the outside. But 'such is life' as Mrs. Rachel says.
Here comes the minister, Diana." "Oh, Anne," gasped Diana, suddenly turning very pale and beginning to tremble.
Oh, Anne-I'm so nervous-I can't go through with it-Anne, I know I'm going to faint." "If you do I'll drag you down to the rainwater hogshed and drop you in," said Anne unsympathetically.
Getting married can't be so very terrible when so many people survive the ceremony.
See how cool and composed I am, and take courage." "Wait till your turn comes, Miss Anne.
Oh, Anne, I hear father coming upstairs.
Am I very pale?" "You look just lovely.
Di, darling, kiss me good-bye for the last time. Diana Barry will never kiss me again." "Diana Wright will, though.
Come." Following the simple, old-fashioned way in vogue then, Anne went down to the parlor on Gilbert's arm.
They met at the top of the stairs for the first time since they had left Kingsport, for Gilbert had arrived only that day.
He was looking very well, though, as Anne instantly noted, rather thin.
He was not pale; there was a flush on his cheek that had burned into it as Anne came along the hall towards him, in her soft, white dress with lilies-of-the-valley in the shining masses of her hair.
As they entered the crowded parlor together a little murmur of admiration ran around the room.
What a fine-looking pair they are," whispered the impressible Mrs. Rachel to Marilla. Fred ambled in alone, with a very red face, and then Diana swept in on her father's arm.
She did not faint, and nothing untoward occurred to interrupt the ceremony.
Lovers' Lane was a veritable path in a fairyland that night-a shimmering, mysterious place, full of wizardry in the white-woven enchantment of moonlight.
There had been a time when such a walk with Gilbert through Lovers' Lane would have been far too dangerous.
But Roy and Christine had made it very safe now.
Anne found herself thinking a good deal about Christine as she chatted lightly to Gilbert.
She had met her several times before leaving Kingsport, and had been charmingly sweet to her.
Christine had also been charmingly sweet.
Indeed, they were a most cordial pair.
But for all that, their acquaintance had not ripened into friendship.
Evidently Christine was not a kindred spirit. "Are you going to be in Avonlea all summer?" asked Gilbert. "No. I'm going down east to Valley Road next week.
Esther Haythorne wants me to teach for her through July and August.
They have a summer term in that school, and Esther isn't feeling well.
So I'm going to substitute for her.
In one way I don't mind.
Do you know, I'm beginning to feel a little bit like a stranger in Avonlea now?
It makes me sorry-but it's true.
It's quite appalling to see the number of children who have shot up into big boys and girls-really young men and women-these past two years.
Half of my pupils are grown up.
It makes me feel awfully old to see them in the places you and I and our mates used to fill." Anne laughed and sighed.
She felt very old and mature and wise-which showed how young she was.
She told herself that she longed greatly to go back to those dear merry days when life was seen through a rosy mist of hope and illusion, and possessed an indefinable something that had passed away forever.
Where was it now-the glory and the dream? "'So wags the world away,'" quoted Gilbert practically, and a trifle absently.
Anne wondered if he were thinking of Christine.
Oh, Avonlea was going to be so lonely now-with Diana gone! Chapter XXX Mrs. Skinner's Romance Anne stepped off the train at Valley Road station and looked about to see if any one had come to meet her.
She was to board with a certain Miss Janet Sweet, but she saw no one who answered in the least to her preconception of that lady, as formed from Esther's letter.
The only person in sight was an elderly woman, sitting in a wagon with mail bags piled around her.
Two hundred would have been a charitable guess at her weight; her face was as round and red as a harvest-moon and almost as featureless.
Are you the new Valley Road schoolma'am?" "Yes." "Well, I thought so.
Valley Road is noted for its good-looking schoolma'ams, just as Millersville is noted for its humly ones.
Janet Sweet asked me this morning if I could bring you out.
I said, 'Sartin I kin, if she don't mind being scrunched up some.
This rig of mine's kinder small for the mail bags and I'm some heftier than Thomas!
Just wait, miss, till I shift these bags a bit and I'll tuck you in somehow. It's only two miles to Janet's.
Her next-door neighbor's hired boy is coming for your trunk tonight.
My name is Skinner-Amelia Skinner." Anne was eventually tucked in, exchanging amused smiles with herself during the process. "Jog along, black mare," commanded Mrs. Skinner, gathering up the reins in her pudgy hands.
This is my first trip on the mail rowte.
Thomas wanted to hoe his turnips today so he asked me to come.
So I jest sot down and took a standing-up snack and started.
O' course it's rather tejus.
Part of the time I sits and thinks and the rest I jest sits.
I want to git home airly. Thomas is terrible lonesome when I'm away.
You see, we haven't been married very long." "Oh!" said Anne politely. "Just a month.
Thomas courted me for quite a spell, though.
Anne tried to picture Mrs. Skinner on speaking terms with romance and failed. "Oh?" she said again. "Yes.
Y'see, there was another man after me.
I'd been a widder so long folks had given up expecting me to marry again. But when my darter-she's a schoolma'am like you-went out West to teach I felt real lonesome and wasn't nowise sot against the idea.
Bime-by Thomas began to come up and so did the other feller-William Obadiah Seaman, his name was.
For a long time I couldn't make up my mind which of them to take, and they kep' coming and coming, and I kep' worrying. Y'see, W.O. was rich-he had a fine place and carried considerable style.
He was by far the best match.
Jog along, black mare." "Why didn't you marry him?" asked Anne. "Well, y'see, he didn't love me," answered Mrs. Skinner, solemnly. Anne opened her eyes widely and looked at Mrs. Skinner.
But there was not a glint of humor on that lady's face.
Evidently Mrs. Skinner saw nothing amusing in her own case. "He'd been a widder-man for three yers, and his sister kept house for him.
Then she got married and he just wanted some one to look after his house.
It was worth looking after, too, mind you that.
As for Thomas, he was poor, and if his house didn't leak in dry weather it was about all that could be said for it, though it looks kind of pictureaskew.
But, y'see, I loved Thomas, and I didn't care one red cent for W.O.
So I argued it out with myself.
Sarah Crowe,' say I-my first was a Crowe-'you can marry your rich man if you like but you won't be happy.
Folks can't get along together in this world without a little bit of love.
You'd just better tie up to Thomas, for he loves you and you love him and nothing else ain't going to do you.
So I told Thomas I'd take him.
All the time I was getting ready I never dared drive past W.O.'s place for fear the sight of that fine house of his would put me in the swithers again.
But now I never think of it at all, and I'm just that comfortable and happy with Thomas.
Jog along, black mare." "How did William Obadiah take it?" queried Anne. "Oh, he rumpussed a bit.
But he's going to see a skinny old maid in Millersville now, and I guess she'll take him fast enough.
She'll make him a better wife than his first did.
W.O. never wanted to marry her. He just asked her to marry him 'cause his father wanted him to, never dreaming but that she'd say 'no.' But mind you, she said 'yes.
There was a predicament for you.
She was a great housekeeper, but most awful mean.
She wore the same bonnet for eighteen years.
Then she got a new one and W.O. met her on the road and didn't know her.
I feel that I'd a narrer escape.
I might have married him and been most awful miserable, like my poor cousin, Jane Ann.
Jane Ann married a rich man she didn't care anything about, and she hasn't the life of a dog.
She come to see me last week and says, says she, 'Sarah Skinner, I envy you.
I'd rather live in a little hut on the side of the road with a man I was fond of than in my big house with the one I've got.
Jane Ann's man ain't such a bad sort, nuther, though he's so contrary that he wears his fur coat when the thermometer's at ninety.
The only way to git him to do anything is to coax him to do the opposite.
But there ain't any love to smooth things down and it's a poor way of living.
There's Janet's place in the hollow-'Wayside,' she calls it.
I guess you'll be glad to git out of this, with all them mail bags jamming round you." "Yes, but I have enjoyed my drive with you very much," said Anne sincerely. "Git away now!" said Mrs. Skinner, highly flattered.
Wait till I tell Thomas that.
He always feels dretful tickled when I git a compliment. Jog along, black mare.
I hope you'll git on well in the school, miss. There's a short cut to it through the ma'sh back of Janet's.
If you take that way be awful keerful.
If you once got stuck in that black mud you'd be sucked right down and never seen or heard tell of again till the day of judgment, like Adam Palmer's cow.
Jog along, black mare." Chapter XXXI Anne to Philippa "Anne Shirley to Philippa Gordon, greeting. "Well-beloved, it's high time I was writing you.
Here am I, installed once more as a country 'schoolma'am' at Valley Road, boarding at 'Wayside,' the home of Miss Janet Sweet.
Janet is a dear soul and very nicelooking; tall, but not over-tall; stoutish, yet with a certain restraint of outline suggestive of a thrifty soul who is not going to be overlavish even in the matter of avoirdupois.
She has a knot of soft, crimpy, brown hair with a thread of gray in it, a sunny face with rosy cheeks, and big, kind eyes as blue as forget-me-nots.
My, you don't look a mite like I expected.
I was sure you'd be dark-my sister Anne was dark.
And here you're redheaded!' "For a few minutes I thought I wasn't going to like Janet as much as I had expected at first sight.
Then I reminded myself that I really must be more sensible than to be prejudiced against any one simply because she called my hair red.
Probably the word 'auburn' was not in Janet's vocabulary at all. "'Wayside' is a dear sort of little spot.
The house is small and white, set down in a delightful little hollow that drops away from the road. Between road and house is an orchard and flower-garden all mixed up together.
The front door walk is bordered with quahog clam-shells-'cow-hawks,' Janet calls them; there is Virginia Creeper over the porch and moss on the roof.
My room is a neat little spot 'off the parlor'-just big enough for the bed and me.
Over the head of my bed there is a picture of Robby Burns standing at Highland Mary's grave, shadowed by an enormous weeping willow tree.
Robby's face is so lugubrious that it is no wonder I have bad dreams.
Why, the first night I was here I dreamed I _couldn't laugh_. "The parlor is tiny and neat.
Its one window is so shaded by a huge willow that the room has a grotto-like effect of emerald gloom.
There are wonderful tidies on the chairs, and gay mats on the floor, and books and cards carefully arranged on a round table, and vases of dried grass on the mantel-piece.
Between the vases is a cheerful decoration of preserved coffin plates-five in all, pertaining respectively to Janet's father and mother, a brother, her sister Anne, and a hired man who died here once!
If I go suddenly insane some of these days 'know all men by these presents' that those coffin-plates have caused it. "But it's all delightful and I said so.
Janet loved me for it, just as she detested poor Esther because Esther had said so much shade was unhygienic and had objected to sleeping on a feather bed.
Now, I glory in feather-beds, and the more unhygienic and feathery they are the more I glory.
Esther is really a dear girl, but she is rather given to fads.
The trouble is that she hasn't enough imagination and HAS a tendency to indigestion. "Janet told me I could have the use of the parlor when any young men called!
I don't think there are many to call.
I haven't seen a young man in Valley Road yet, except the next-door hired boy-Sam Toliver, a very tall, lank, tow-haired youth.
He came over one evening recently and sat for an hour on the garden fence, near the front porch where Janet and I were doing fancy-work.
The only remarks he volunteered in all that time were, 'Hev a peppermint, miss!
Dew now-fine thing for car_arrh_, peppermints,' and, 'Powerful lot o' jump-grasses round here ternight.
Yep.' "But there is a love affair going on here.
It seems to be my fortune to be mixed up, more or less actively, with elderly love affairs.
Mr. and Mrs. Irving always say that I brought about their marriage.
Mrs. Stephen Clark of Carmody persists in being most grateful to me for a suggestion which somebody else would probably have made if I hadn't.
I do really think, though, that Ludovic Speed would never have got any further along than placid courtship if I had not helped him and Theodora Dix out. "In the present affair I am only a passive spectator.
I've tried once to help things along and made an awful mess of it.
So I shall not meddle again.
I'll tell you all about it when we meet." Chapter XXXII Tea with Mrs. Douglas On the first Thursday night of Anne's sojourn in Valley Road Janet asked her to go to prayer-meeting.
Janet blossomed out like a rose to attend that prayer-meeting.
She wore a pale-blue, pansy-sprinkled muslin dress with more ruffles than one would ever have supposed economical Janet could be guilty of, and a white leghorn hat with pink roses and three ostrich feathers on it.
Later on, she found out Janet's motive in so arraying herself-a motive as old as Eden. Valley Road prayer-meetings seemed to be essentially feminine.
There were thirty-two women present, two half-grown boys, and one solitary man, beside the minister.
Anne found herself studying this man.
He was not handsome or young or graceful; he had remarkably long legs-so long that he had to keep them coiled up under his chair to dispose of them-and he was stoop-shouldered.
His hands were big, his hair wanted barbering, and his moustache was unkempt.
But Anne thought she liked his face; it was kind and honest and tender; there was something else in it, too-just what, Anne found it hard to define.
She finally concluded that this man had suffered and been strong, and it had been made manifest in his face.
She smiled appreciatively at him and dropped obligingly behind on the moonlit road. So Janet had a beau!
Janet would make a paragon of a wife-cheery, economical, tolerant, and a very queen of cooks.
It would be a flagrant waste on Nature's part to keep her a permanent old maid. "John Douglas asked me to take you up to see his mother," said Janet the next day.
She's bed-rid a lot of the time and never goes out of the house.
But she's powerful fond of company and always wants to see my boarders.
It was a hot day, and poor Janet, between her excitement and her heavy black cashmere dress, looked as if she were being broiled alive. "Old Mrs. Douglas would think it terrible frivolous and unsuitable, I'm afraid.
John likes that dress, though," she added wistfully. The old Douglas homestead was half a mile from "Wayside" cresting a windy hill.
The house itself was large and comfortable, old enough to be dignified, and girdled with maple groves and orchards.
There were big, trim barns behind it, and everything bespoke prosperity.
Instead, she was a tiny scrap of a woman, with soft pink cheeks, mild blue eyes, and a mouth like a baby's.
I am so glad to see you again, dear.
She put up her pretty old face to be kissed.
And this is our new teacher.
I'm delighted to meet you.
My son has been singing your praises until I'm half jealous, and I'm sure Janet ought to be wholly so." Poor Janet blushed, Anne said something polite and conventional, and then everybody sat down and made talk.
It was hard work, even for Anne, for nobody seemed at ease except old Mrs. Douglas, who certainly did not find any difficulty in talking.
She made Janet sit by her and stroked her hand occasionally.
Janet sat and smiled, looking horribly uncomfortable in her hideous dress, and John Douglas sat without smiling. At the tea table Mrs. Douglas gracefully asked Janet to pour the tea. Janet turned redder than ever but did it.
After I had eaten twice as much as was good for me, Mrs. Douglas sighed and said she feared she had nothing to tempt my appetite. "'I'm afraid dear Janet's cooking has spoiled you for any other,' she said sweetly.
Of course nobody in Valley Road aspires to rival _her_. _Won't_ you have another piece of pie, Miss Shirley?
Miss Shirley will keep me company while you are out-won't you?" she said plaintively.
She settled down in her armchair with a sigh. "I am a very frail old woman, Miss Shirley.
For over twenty years I've been a great sufferer.
Nobody knows what I've gone through-nobody can know but myself.
Well, it can't last very much longer now.
My weary pilgrimage will soon be over, Miss Shirley.
It is a great comfort to me that John will have such a good wife to look after him when his mother is gone-a great comfort, Miss Shirley." "Janet is a lovely woman," said Anne warmly. "Lovely!
A beautiful character," assented Mrs. Douglas.
And a perfect housekeeper-something I never was.
My health would not permit it, Miss Shirley.
I am indeed thankful that John has made such a wise choice.
I hope and believe that he will be happy.
He is my only son, Miss Shirley, and his happiness lies very near my heart." "Of course," said Anne stupidly.
For the first time in her life she was stupid.
Yet she could not imagine why.
She seemed to have absolutely nothing to say to this sweet, smiling, angelic old lady who was patting her hand so kindly. "Come and see me soon again, dear Janet," said Mrs. Douglas lovingly, when they left.
You don't come half often enough.
But then I suppose John will be bringing you here to stay all the time one of these days." Anne, happening to glance at John Douglas, as his mother spoke, gave a positive start of dismay.
He looked as a tortured man might look when his tormentors gave the rack the last turn of possible endurance.
She felt sure he must be ill and hurried poor blushing Janet away. "Isn't old Mrs. Douglas a sweet woman?" asked Janet, as they went down the road. "M-m," answered Anne absently.
She was wondering why John Douglas had looked so. "She's been a terrible sufferer," said Janet feelingly.
It keeps John all worried up.
You must give him time, Janet "Time!" said Janet with indescribable scorn.
He has had twenty years. How much time does he want?" "Do you mean that John Douglas has been coming to see you for twenty years?" "He has.
And he has never so much as mentioned marriage to me.
And I don't believe he ever will now.
I've never said a word to a mortal about it, but it seems to me I've just got to talk it out with some one at last or go crazy.
John Douglas begun to go with me twenty years ago, before mother died.
Well, he kept coming and coming, and after a spell I begun making quilts and things; but he never said anything about getting married, only just kept coming and coming.
There wasn't anything I could do.
Mother died when we'd been going together for eight years.
I thought he maybe would speak out then, seeing as I was left alone in the world.
He was real kind and feeling, and did everything he could for me, but he never said marry.
And that's the way it has been going on ever since.
People blame _me_ for it.
They say I won't marry him because his mother is so sickly and I don't want the bother of waiting on her.
Why, I'd _love_ to wait on John's mother!
But I let them think so.
I'd rather they'd blame me than pity me!
It's so dreadful humiliating that John won't ask me.
Seems to me if I only knew his reason I wouldn't mind it so much." "Perhaps his mother doesn't want him to marry anybody," suggested Anne. "Oh, she does.
She's told me time and again that she'd love to see John settled before her time comes.
She's always giving him hints-you heard her yourself the other day.
I thought I'd ha' gone through the floor." "It's beyond me," said Anne helplessly.
She thought of Ludovic Speed. But the cases were not parallel.
John Douglas was not a man of Ludovic's type. "You should show more spirit, Janet," she went on resolutely.
Why didn't you send him about his business long ago?" "I couldn't," said poor Janet pathetically.
You see, Anne, I've always been awful fond of John.
I was afraid to try, anyway, for fear he'd think I meant it and just go.
I suppose I'm a poor-spirited creature, but that is how I feel.
And I can't help it." "Oh, you _could_ help it, Janet.
It isn't too late yet.
Let that man know you are not going to endure his shillyshallying any longer. _I'll_ back you up." "I dunno," said Janet hopelessly.
I dunno if I could ever get up enough spunk.
Things have drifted so long.
But I'll think it over." Anne felt that she was disappointed in John Douglas.
She had liked him so well, and she had not thought him the sort of man who would play fast and loose with a woman's feelings for twenty years.
He certainly should be taught a lesson, and Anne felt vindictively that she would enjoy seeing the process.
Janet looked frightened but resolute. "No, thank you," she said icily.
I know the road home pretty well alone.
I ought to, seeing I've been traveling it for forty years.
So you needn't trouble yourself, _Mr_.
Douglas." Anne was looking at John Douglas; and, in that brilliant moonlight, she saw the last twist of the rack again.
Without a word he turned and strode down the road. "Stop!
Anne called wildly after him, not caring in the least for the other dumbfounded onlookers.
Come back." John Douglas stopped but he did not come back.
Anne flew down the road, caught his arm and fairly dragged him back to Janet. "You must come back," she said imploringly.
It's all a mistake, Mr. Douglas-all my fault.
I made Janet do it.
She didn't want to-but it's all right now, isn't it, Janet?" Without a word Janet took his arm and walked away.
Anne followed them meekly home and slipped in by the back door. "Well, you are a nice person to back me up," said Janet sarcastically. "I couldn't help it, Janet," said Anne repentantly.
I just felt as if I had stood by and seen murder done.
I _had_ to run after him." "Oh, I'm just as glad you did.
When I saw John Douglas making off down that road I just felt as if every little bit of joy and happiness that was left in my life was going with him.
John Douglas came and took Janet driving, and walked home from prayer-meeting with her, as he had been doing for twenty years, and as he seemed likely to do for twenty years more.
Anne taught her school and wrote letters and studied a little.
Her walks to and from school were pleasant.
To be sure, there was one diverting incident. She had not seen the lank, tow-headed Samuel of the peppermints since the evening of his call, save for chance meetings on the road.
But one warm August night he appeared, and solemnly seated himself on the rustic bench by the porch.
He wore his usual working habiliments, consisting of varipatched trousers, a blue jean shirt, out at the elbows, and a ragged straw hat.
He was chewing a straw and he kept on chewing it while he looked solemnly at Anne.
Anne laid her book aside with a sigh and took up her doily.
There's one that'd suit me over at Millersville.
But ef I rents it I'll want a woman." "I suppose so," said Anne vaguely. "Yep." There was another long silence.
I'm a good worker and I've got some money in the bank." "Don't speak of this to me again.
Whatever put such an idea into your head?" said Anne, her sense of humor getting the better of her wrath. It was such an absurd situation. "Yeh're a likely-looking girl and hev a right-smart way o' stepping," said Sam.
I don't want no lazy woman.
I won't change my mind yit awhile.
Wall, I must be gitting.
Gotter milk the cows." Anne's illusions concerning proposals had suffered so much of late years that there were few of them left.
So she could laugh wholeheartedly over this one, not feeling any secret sting.
I really believe old Mrs. Douglas is going to die at last, after pretending to do it for twenty years." Janet ran to get her hat.
Anne asked if Mrs. Douglas was worse than usual. "She's not half as bad," said Alec solemnly, "and that's what makes me think it's serious.
Other times she'd be screaming and throwing herself all over the place.
This time she's lying still and mum.
When Mrs. Douglas is mum she is pretty sick, you bet." "You don't like old Mrs. Douglas?" said Anne curiously. "I like cats as _is_ cats.
I don't like cats as is women," was Alec's cryptic reply. Janet came home in the twilight. "Mrs. Douglas is dead," she said wearily.
She died soon after I got there.
She just spoke to me once-'I suppose you'll marry John now?' she said.
It cut me to the heart, Anne.
To think John's own mother thought I wouldn't marry him because of her!
I couldn't say a word either-there were other women there.
I was thankful John had gone out." Janet began to cry drearily.
But Anne brewed her a hot drink of ginger tea to her comforting.
To be sure, Anne discovered later on that she had used white pepper instead of ginger; but Janet never knew the difference. The evening after the funeral Janet and Anne were sitting on the front porch steps at sunset.
The wind had fallen asleep in the pinelands and lurid sheets of heat-lightning flickered across the northern skies. Janet wore her ugly black dress and looked her very worst, her eyes and nose red from crying.
They talked little, for Janet seemed faintly to resent Anne's efforts to cheer her up.
She plainly preferred to be miserable. Suddenly the gate-latch clicked and John Douglas strode into the garden.
He walked towards them straight over the geranium bed.
She made me promise not to-mother made me promise not to. Nineteen years ago she took a terrible spell.
We thought she couldn't live through it.
She implored me to promise not to ask you to marry me while she was alive.
I didn't want to promise such a thing, even though we all thought she couldn't live very long-the doctor only gave her six months.
But she begged it on her knees, sick and suffering.
I had to promise." "What had your mother against me?" cried Janet. "Nothing-nothing.
She just didn't want another woman-_any_ woman-there while she was living.
She said if I didn't promise she'd die right there and I'd have killed her.
And she's held me to that promise ever since, though I've gone on my knees to her in my turn to beg her to let me off." "Why didn't you tell me this?" asked Janet chokingly.
If I'd only _known!_ Why didn't you just tell me?" "She made me promise I wouldn't tell a soul," said John hoarsely.
She swore me to it on the Bible; Janet, I'd never have done it if I'd dreamed it was to be for so long.
Janet, you'll never know what I've suffered these nineteen years.
I know I've made you suffer, too, but you'll marry me for all, won't you, Janet?
I've come as soon as I could to ask you." At this moment the stupefied Anne came to her senses and realized that she had no business to be there.
She slipped away and did not see Janet until the next morning, when the latter told her the rest of the story. "That cruel, relentless, deceitful old woman!" cried Anne. "Hush-she's dead," said Janet solemnly.
If she wasn't-but she _is_.
So we mustn't speak evil of her.
But I'm happy at last, Anne.
And I wouldn't have minded waiting so long a bit if I'd only known why." "When are you to be married?" "Next month.
Of course it will be very quiet.
I suppose people will talk terrible.
They'll say I made enough haste to snap John up as soon as his poor mother was out of the way.
John wanted to let them know the truth but I said, 'No, John; after all she was your mother, and we'll keep the secret between us, and not cast any shadow on her memory.
I don't mind what people say, now that I know the truth myself.
It don't matter a mite.
Let it all be buried with the dead' says I to him.
So I coaxed him round to agree with me." "You're much more forgiving than I could ever be," Anne said, rather crossly. "You'll feel differently about a good many things when you get to be my age," said Janet tolerantly.
That's one of the things we learn as we grow older-how to forgive.
Isn't it jolly to see this dear old Patty's Place again-and Aunty-and the cats?
But I wish you'd tidy things up," said Aunt Jamesina plaintively, looking at the wilderness of trunks and suitcases by which the four laughing, chattering girls were surrounded.
You can talk just as well later on.
Oh, why must a minister's wife be supposed to utter only prunes and prisms?
But I stood rockfirm-even I, Philippa Gordon, who never before could hold fast to anything.
Father's own daddy was a minister, so you see he has a soft spot in his heart for the cloth.
I had Jo up to Mount Holly, after mother grew calm, and they both loved him.
But mother gave him some frightful hints in every conversation regarding what she had hoped for me.
Oh, my vacation pathway hasn't been exactly strewn with roses, girls dear.
But-I've won out and I've got Jo.
Nothing else matters." "To you," said Aunt Jamesina darkly. "Nor to Jo, either," retorted Phil.
You keep on pitying him.
I think he's to be envied.
He's getting brains, beauty, and a heart of gold in _me_." "It's well we know how to take your speeches," said Aunt Jamesina patiently.
I hope you don't talk like that before strangers.
What would they think?" "Oh, I don't want to know what they think.
I don't want to see myself as others see me.
I'm sure it would be horribly uncomfortable most of the time.
I don't believe Burns was really sincere in that prayer, either." "Oh, I daresay we all pray for some things that we really don't want, if we were only honest enough to look into our hearts," owned Aunt Jamesina candidly.
I've a notion that such prayers don't rise very far. _I_ used to pray that I might be enabled to forgive a certain person, but I know now I really didn't want to forgive her.
When I finally got that I _did_ want to I forgave her without having to pray about it." "I can't picture you as being unforgiving for long," said Stella. "Oh, I used to be.
The girls shrieked with laughter and Aunt Jamesina smiled. "It isn't in good taste to make fun of your beaux," she said severely; "but," she added calmly, "I always did it myself." "Tell us about your beaux, Aunty," entreated Phil.
You must have had any number of them." "They're not in the past tense," retorted Aunt Jamesina.
There are three old widowers at home who have been casting sheep's eyes at me for some time.
You children needn't think you own all the romance in the world." "Widowers and sheep's eyes don't sound very romantic, Aunty." "Well, no; but young folks aren't always romantic either.
Some of my beaux certainly weren't.
I used to laugh at them scandalous, poor boys. There was Jim Elwood-he was always in a sort of day-dream-never seemed to sense what was going on.
He didn't wake up to the fact that I'd said 'no' till a year after I'd said it.
When he did get married his wife fell out of the sleigh one night when they were driving home from church and he never missed her.
Then there was Dan Winston.
He knew everything in this world and most of what is in the next. He could give you an answer to any question, even if you asked him when the Judgment Day was to be.
Milton Edwards was real nice and I liked him but I didn't marry him.
For one thing, he took a week to get a joke through his head, and for another he never asked me.
Horatio Reeve was the most interesting beau I ever had.
But when he told a story he dressed it up so that you couldn't see it for frills.
I never could decide whether he was lying or just letting his imagination run loose." "And what about the others, Aunty?" "Go away and unpack," said Aunt Jamesina, waving Joseph at them by mistake for a needle.
The others were too nice to make fun of.
I shall respect their memory.
There's a box of flowers in your room, Anne.
They came about an hour ago." After the first week the girls of Patty's Place settled down to a steady grind of study; for this was their last year at Redmond and graduation honors must be fought for persistently.
Anne devoted herself to English, Priscilla pored over classics, and Philippa pounded away at Mathematics.
Sometimes they grew tired, sometimes they felt discouraged, sometimes nothing seemed worth the struggle for it.
In one such mood Stella wandered up to the blue room one rainy November evening.
Anne sat on the floor in a little circle of light cast by the lamp beside her, amid a surrounding snow of crumpled manuscript. "What in the world are you doing?" "Just looking over some old Story Club yarns.
I wanted something to cheer _and_ inebriate.
I'd studied until the world seemed azure.
So I came up here and dug these out of my trunk.
They are so drenched in tears and tragedy that they are excruciatingly funny." "I'm blue and discouraged myself," said Stella, throwing herself on the couch.
My very thoughts are old.
I've thought them all before.
What is the use of living after all, Anne?" "Honey, it's just brain fag that makes us feel that way, and the weather.
A pouring rainy night like this, coming after a hard day's grind, would squelch any one but a Mark Tapley.
You know it _is_ worthwhile to live." "Oh, I suppose so.
But I can't prove it to myself just now." "Just think of all the great and noble souls who have lived and worked in the world," said Anne dreamily.
Isn't it worthwhile to come after them and inherit what they won and taught?
Isn't it worthwhile to think we can share their inspiration?
And then, all the great souls that will come in the future?
Isn't it worthwhile to work a little and prepare the way for them-make just one step in their path easier?" "Oh, my mind agrees with you, Anne.
But my soul remains doleful and uninspired.
It doesn't always. I spent a gruesome night in an old country farmhouse last summer.
The roof leaked and the rain came pattering down on my bed.
There was no poetry in _that_.
I had to get up in the 'mirk midnight' and chivy round to pull the bedstead out of the drip-and it was one of those solid, old-fashioned beds that weigh a ton-more or less.
And then that drip-drop, drip-drop kept up all night until my nerves just went to pieces.
You've no idea what an eerie noise a great drop of rain falling with a mushy thud on a bare floor makes in the night.
It sounds like ghostly footsteps and all that sort of thing.
What are you laughing over, Anne?" "These stories.
As Phil would say they are killing-in more senses than one, for everybody died in them.
What dazzlingly lovely heroines we had-and how we dressed them! "Silks-satins-velvets-jewels-laces-they never wore anything else.
Here is one of Jane Andrews' stories depicting her heroine as sleeping in a beautiful white satin nightdress trimmed with seed pearls." "Go on," said Stella.
I begin to feel that life is worth living as long as there's a laugh in it." "Here's one I wrote.
My heroine is disporting herself at a ball 'glittering from head to foot with large diamonds of the first water.' But what booted beauty or rich attire?
The paths of glory lead but to the grave.
They must either be murdered or die of a broken heart. There was no escape for them." "Let me read some of your stories." "Well, here's my masterpiece.
Note its cheerful title-'My Graves.
I shed quarts of tears while writing it, and the other girls shed gallons while I read it.
Jane Andrews' mother scolded her frightfully because she had so many handkerchiefs in the wash that week.
It's a harrowing tale of the wanderings of a Methodist minister's wife.
I made her a Methodist because it was necessary that she should wander.
What fun they had had!
How the sunshine and mirth of those olden summers returned as she read.
Not all the glory that was Greece or the grandeur that was Rome could weave such wizardry as those funny, tearful tales of the Story Club.
Among the manuscripts Anne found one written on sheets of wrapping paper.
It was a little dialogue between asters and sweet-peas, wild canaries in the lilac bush, and the guardian spirit of the garden.
Here are three for Stella, and two for Pris, and a glorious fat one for me from Jo.
There's nothing for you, Anne, except a circular." Nobody noticed Anne's flush as she took the thin letter Phil tossed her carelessly.
When is it to be published? Did they pay you for it?" "Yes; they've sent a check for ten dollars, and the editor writes that he would like to see more of my work.
It was an old sketch I found in my box.
I re-wrote it and sent it in-but I never really thought it could be accepted because it had no plot," said Anne, recalling the bitter experience of Averil's Atonement. "What are you going to do with that ten dollars, Anne?
Let's all go up town and get drunk," suggested Phil. "I _am_ going to squander it in a wild soulless revel of some sort," declared Anne gaily.
At all events it isn't tainted money-like the check I got for that horrible Reliable Baking Powder story.
You never know when or how they will break out.
Anne may make copy of us." "I meant that the ability to write for the Press was a great responsibility," said Aunt Jamesina severely, "and I hope Anne realizes, it.
You'd better take that for yours, Anne, if you are going to embark in literature.
Though, to be sure," added Aunt Jamesina perplexedly, "Elizabeth always used to laugh when she said it.
She always laughed so much that I don't know how she ever came to decide on being a missionary.
Nevertheless, she was not so rapt from things of earth as to be unable to notice that Christine's walk was decidedly ungraceful. "But I suppose Gilbert looks only at her face.
She ought to be, of course.
But would it not be something of an ordeal?
Gossip had filtered to Anne regarding the light in which the Gardners viewed the "infatuation" of son and brother.
Roy must have brought pressure to bear in the matter of this call.
Anne knew she would be weighed in the balance.
From the fact that they had consented to call she understood that, willingly or unwillingly, they regarded her as a possible member of their clan. "I shall just be myself.
I shall not _try_ to make a good impression," thought Anne loftily.
But she was wondering what dress she would better wear Saturday afternoon, and if the new style of high hair-dressing would suit her better than the old; and the walking party was rather spoiled for her.
By night she had decided that she would wear her brown chiffon on Saturday, but would do her hair low. Friday afternoon none of the girls had classes at Redmond.
Stella took the opportunity to write a paper for the Philomathic Society, and was sitting at the table in the corner of the living-room with an untidy litter of notes and manuscript on the floor around her.
Stella always vowed she never could write anything unless she threw each sheet down as she completed it.
Anne, in her flannel blouse and serge skirt, with her hair rather blown from her windy walk home, was sitting squarely in the middle of the floor, teasing the Sarah-cat with a wishbone.
Joseph and Rusty were both curled up in her lap.
A warm plummy odor filled the whole house, for Priscilla was cooking in the kitchen.
Presently she came in, enshrouded in a huge work-apron, with a smudge of flour on her nose, to show Aunt Jamesina the chocolate cake she had just iced. At this auspicious moment the knocker sounded.
Nobody paid any attention to it save Phil, who sprang up and opened it, expecting a boy with the hat she had bought that morning.
On the doorstep stood Mrs. Gardner and her daughters. Anne scrambled to her feet somehow, emptying two indignant cats out of her lap as she did so, and mechanically shifting her wishbone from her right hand to her left.
Priscilla, who would have had to cross the room to reach the kitchen door, lost her head, wildly plunged the chocolate cake under a cushion on the inglenook sofa, and dashed upstairs.
Stella began feverishly gathering up her manuscript.
Only Aunt Jamesina and Phil remained normal.
Thanks to them, everybody was soon sitting at ease, even Anne.
Aline Gardner was a younger edition of her mother, lacking the cordiality.
She endeavored to be nice, but succeeded only in being haughty and patronizing.
Dorothy Gardner was slim and jolly and rather tomboyish. Anne knew she was Roy's favorite sister and warmed to her.
She would have looked very much like Roy if she had had dreamy dark eyes instead of roguish hazel ones.
Thanks to her and Phil, the call really went off very well, except for a slight sense of strain in the atmosphere and two rather untoward incidents.
Rusty and Joseph, left to themselves, began a game of chase, and sprang madly into Mrs. Gardner's silken lap and out of it in their wild career.
They are so nice and selfish.
Dogs are _too_ good and unselfish.
They make me feel uncomfortable.
But cats are gloriously human." "You have two delightful old china dogs there.
May I look at them closely?" said Aline, crossing the room towards the fireplace and thereby becoming the unconscious cause of the other accident.
Picking up Magog, she sat down on the cushion under which was secreted Priscilla's chocolate cake.
Priscilla and Anne exchanged agonized glances but could do nothing.
The stately Aline continued to sit on the cushion and discuss china dogs until the time of departure. Dorothy lingered behind a moment to squeeze Anne's hand and whisper impulsively. "I _know_ you and I are going to be chums.
Oh, Roy has told me all about you.
I'm the only one of the family he tells things to, poor boy-nobody _could_ confide in mamma and Aline, you know.
What glorious times you girls must have here!
Won't you let me come often and have a share in them?" "Come as often as you like," Anne responded heartily, thankful that one of Roy's sisters was likable.
She would never like Aline, so much was certain; and Aline would never like her, though Mrs. Gardner might be won.
Altogether, Anne sighed with relief when the ordeal was over. "'Of all sad words of tongue or pen The saddest are it might have been,'" quoted Priscilla tragically, lifting the cushion.
This cake is now what you might call a flat failure.
And the cushion is likewise ruined. Never tell me that Friday isn't unlucky." "People who send word they are coming on Saturday shouldn't come on Friday," said Aunt Jamesina. "I fancy it was Roy's mistake," said Phil.
That boy isn't really responsible for what he says when he talks to Anne.
Where _is_ Anne?" Anne had gone upstairs.
She felt oddly like crying.
But she made herself laugh instead.
Rusty and Joseph had been _too_ awful!
You're at home in Philosophy.
I'm not-and when I think of that horrible paper tomorrow I quail.
If I should fail in it what would Jo say?" "You won't fail.
How did you get on in Greek today?" "I don't know.
Perhaps it was a good paper and perhaps it was bad enough to make Homer turn over in his grave.
I've studied and mulled over notebooks until I'm incapable of forming an opinion of anything. How thankful little Phil will be when all this examinating is over." "Examinating?
Girls, do you-can you realize that our Redmond Life is almost over?" "I can't," said Anne, sorrowfully.
It seems just yesterday that Pris and I were alone in that crowd of Freshmen at Redmond.
And now we are Seniors in our final examinations." "'Potent, wise, and reverend Seniors,'" quoted Phil.
It's not to be expected, of course.
You can't learn it in a college course.
I think we have, Aunty," protested Anne. "We've learned the truth of what Professor Woodleigh told us last Philomathic," said Phil.
He said, 'Humor is the spiciest condiment in the feast of existence.
Laugh at your mistakes but learn from them, joke over your troubles but gather strength from them, make a jest of your difficulties but overcome them.
Isn't that worth learning, Aunt Jimsie?" "Yes, it is, dearie.
Summing up, I think that is what Redmond has given me." "I shall have to fall back on another Professor Woodleigh quotation to express what it has done for me," said Priscilla.
Well, that justifies higher education in my opinion.
It's a matter I was always dubious about before." "But what about people who haven't natural gumption, Aunt Jimsie?" "People who haven't natural gumption never learn," retorted Aunt Jamesina, "neither in college nor life.
If they live to be a hundred they really don't know anything more than when they were born.
It's their misfortune not their fault, poor souls.
But those of us who have some gumption should duly thank the Lord for it." "Will you please define what gumption is, Aunt Jimsie?" asked Phil. "No, I won't, young woman.
Any one who has gumption knows what it is, and any one who hasn't can never know what it is.
So there is no need of defining it." The busy days flew by and examinations were over.
Anne took High Honors in English.
Priscilla took Honors in Classics, and Phil in Mathematics. Stella obtained a good all-round showing.
Then came Convocation. "This is what I would once have called an epoch in my life," said Anne, as she took Roy's violets out of their box and gazed at them thoughtfully.
She meant to carry them, of course, but her eyes wandered to another box on her table.
It was filled with lilies-of-the-valley, as fresh and fragrant as those which bloomed in the Green Gables yard when June came to Avonlea.
Gilbert Blythe's card lay beside it. Anne wondered why Gilbert should have sent her flowers for Convocation. She had seen very little of him during the past winter.
He had come to Patty's Place only one Friday evening since the Christmas holidays, and they rarely met elsewhere.
She knew he was studying very hard, aiming at High Honors and the Cooper Prize, and he took little part in the social doings of Redmond.
Anne's own winter had been quite gay socially.
She had seen a good deal of the Gardners; she and Dorothy were very intimate; college circles expected the announcement of her engagement to Roy any day.
Yet just before she left Patty's Place for Convocation she flung Roy's violets aside and put Gilbert's lilies-of-the-valley in their place.
She could not have told why she did it.
Somehow, old Avonlea days and dreams and friendships seemed very close to her in this attainment of her long-cherished ambitions.
She and Gilbert had once picturedout merrily the day on which they should be capped and gowned graduates in Arts. The wonderful day had come and Roy's violets had no place in it.
It was not of Aline Gardner's condescending congratulations, or Dorothy's ardent, impulsive good wishes.
It was of one strange, unaccountable pang that spoiled this long-expected day for her and left in it a certain faint but enduring flavor of bitterness. The Arts graduates gave a graduation dance that night.
When Anne dressed for it she tossed aside the pearl beads she usually wore and took from her trunk the small box that had come to Green Gables on Christmas day.
In it was a thread-like gold chain with a tiny pink enamel heart as a pendant.
On the accompanying card was written, "With all good wishes from your old chum, Gilbert.
Anne, laughing over the memory the enamel heart conjured up the fatal day when Gilbert had called her "Carrots" and vainly tried to make his peace with a pink candy heart, had written him a nice little note of thanks.
But she had never worn the trinket.
Tonight she fastened it about her white throat with a dreamy smile. She and Phil walked to Redmond together.
Anne walked in silence; Phil chattered of many things.
Suddenly she said, "I heard today that Gilbert Blythe's engagement to Christine Stuart was to be announced as soon as Convocation was over.
Did you hear anything of it?" "No," said Anne. "I think it's true," said Phil lightly. Anne did not speak.
In the darkness she felt her face burning.
She slipped her hand inside her collar and caught at the gold chain.
One energetic twist and it gave way.
Anne thrust the broken trinket into her pocket.
Her hands were trembling and her eyes were smarting. But she was the gayest of all the gay revellers that night, and told Gilbert unregretfully that her card was full when he came to ask her for a dance.
He didn't know about the graduation dance.
That boy ought to sleep with a rubber band around his head to train his ears not to stick out.
I had a beau once who did that and it improved him immensely.
It was I who suggested it to him and he took my advice, but he never forgave me for it." "Moody Spurgeon is a very serious young man," yawned Priscilla.
He is concerned with graver matters than his ears.
I expect Patty's Place will seem rather small after the Hall of the Kings at Karnak, but I never did like big places to live in. And I'll be glad enough to be home again.
When you start traveling late in life you're apt to do too much of it because you know you haven't much time left, and it's a thing that grows on you.
I'm afraid Maria will never be contented again." "I shall leave here my fancies and dreams to bless the next comer," said Anne, looking around the blue room wistfully-her pretty blue room where she had spent three such happy years.
She had knelt at its window to pray and had bent from it to watch the sunset behind the pines.
She had heard the autumn raindrops beating against it and had welcomed the spring robins at its sill.
I am sure if I came into this room fifty years from now it would say 'Anne, Anne' to me.
What nice times we've had here, honey!
What chats and jokes and good chummy jamborees!
I'm to marry Jo in June and I know I will be rapturously happy.
It would be a shame to separate those cats now that they have learned to live together.
It's a hard lesson for cats and humans to learn." "I'm sorry to part with Rusty," said Anne regretfully, "but it would be no use to take him to Green Gables.
Marilla detests cats, and Davy would tease his life out.
Besides, I don't suppose I'll be home very long.
I've been offered the principalship of the Summerside High School." "Are you going to accept it?" asked Phil. "I-I haven't decided yet," answered Anne, with a confused flush. Phil nodded understandingly.
Naturally Anne's plans could not be settled until Roy had spoken.
He would soon-there was no doubt of that. And there was no doubt that Anne would say "yes" when he said "Will you please?
Anne herself regarded the state of affairs with a seldom-ruffled complacency.
She was deeply in love with Roy.
True, it was not just what she had imagined love to be.
But was anything in life, Anne asked herself wearily, like one's imagination of it?
It was the old diamond disillusion of childhood repeated-the same disappointment she had felt when she had first seen the chill sparkle instead of the purple splendor she had anticipated.
That's not my idea of a diamond," she had said.
But Roy was a dear fellow and they would be very happy together, even if some indefinable zest was missing out of life.
Roy is a nice fellow and all that.
But there's really nothing in him." "That sounds very like a jealous remark, Stella Maynard," said Aunt Jamesina rebukingly. "It does-but I am not jealous," said Stella calmly.
I love Anne and I like Roy.
Everybody says she is making a brilliant match, and even Mrs. Gardner thinks her charming now.
It all sounds as if it were made in heaven, but I have my doubts.
Make the most of that, Aunt Jamesina." Roy asked Anne to marry him in the little pavilion on the harbor shore where they had talked on the rainy day of their first meeting.
Anne thought it very romantic that he should have chosen that spot.
And his proposal was as beautifully worded as if he had copied it, as one of Ruby Gillis' lovers had done, out of a Deportment of Courtship and Marriage.
The whole effect was quite flawless.
And it was also sincere. There was no doubt that Roy meant what he said.
There was no false note to jar the symphony.
Anne felt that she ought to be thrilling from head to foot.
But she wasn't; she was horribly cool.
When Roy paused for his answer she opened her lips to say her fateful yes.
And then-she found herself trembling as if she were reeling back from a precipice.
To her came one of those moments when we realize, as by a blinding flash of illumination, more than all our previous years have taught us.
She pulled her hand from Roy's. "Oh, I can't marry you-I can't-I can't," she cried, wildly. Roy turned pale-and also looked rather foolish.
He had-small blame to him-felt very sure. "What do you mean?" he stammered. "I mean that I can't marry you," repeated Anne desperately.
I thought I could-but I can't." "Why can't you?
Roy asked more calmly. "Because-I don't care enough for you." A crimson streak came into Roy's face. "So you've just been amusing yourself these two years?" he said slowly. "No, no, I haven't," gasped poor Anne.
Oh, how could she explain?
There are some things that cannot be explained.
When he came back to Anne, he was very pale again. "You can give me no hope?" he said. Anne shook her head mutely. "Then-good-bye," said Roy.
I can't understand it-I can't believe you are not the woman I've believed you to be.
But reproaches are idle between us.
You are the only woman I can ever love.
I thank you for your friendship, at least.
Good-bye, Anne." "Good-bye," faltered Anne.
When Roy had gone she sat for a long time in the pavilion, watching a white mist creeping subtly and remorselessly landward up the harbor.
It was her hour of humiliation and self-contempt and shame.
Their waves went over her.
And yet, underneath it all, was a queer sense of recovered freedom. She slipped into Patty's Place in the dusk and escaped to her room.
But Phil was there on the window seat. "Wait," said Anne, flushing to anticipate the scene.
Wait til you hear what I have to say.
Phil, Roy asked me to marry him-and I refused." "You-you _refused_ him?" said Phil blankly. "Yes." "Anne Shirley, are you in your senses?" "I think so," said Anne wearily.
Oh, Phil, don't scold me.
You don't understand." "I certainly don't understand.
You've encouraged Roy Gardner in every way for two years-and now you tell me you've refused him.
Then you've just been flirting scandalously with him.
I never thought about his money.
Oh, I can't explain it to you any more than I could to him." "Well, I certainly think you have treated Roy shamefully," said Phil in exasperation.
He's handsome and clever and rich and good.
What more do you want?" "I want some one who _belongs_ in my life.
The trouble is, my mind changes and then I have to get acquainted with it all over again." "Well, I suppose there is no use in saying anything to you." "There is no need, Phil.
This has spoiled everything backwards.
I can never think of Redmond days without recalling the humiliation of this evening.
Roy despises me-and you despise me-and I despise myself." "You poor darling," said Phil, melting.
Just come here and let me comfort you.
I've no right to scold you.
I'd have married Alec or Alonzo if I hadn't met Jo.
Oh, Anne, things are so mixed-up in real life.
She missed the merry comradeship of Patty's Place.
She had dreamed some brilliant dreams during the past winter and now they lay in the dust around her.
In her present mood of self-disgust, she could not immediately begin dreaming again.
I did want you for a sister.
But you are quite right.
He would bore you to death.
I love him, and he is a dear sweet boy, but really he isn't a bit interesting. He looks as if he ought to be, but he isn't." "This won't spoil _our_ friendship, will it, Dorothy?
Anne had asked wistfully. "No, indeed.
You're too good to lose.
If I can't have you for a sister I mean to keep you as a chum anyway.
And don't fret over Roy.
He is feeling terribly just now-I have to listen to his outpourings every day-but he'll get over it.
He always does." "Oh-_always?_" said Anne with a slight change of voice.
So he has 'got over it' before?" "Dear me, yes," said Dorothy frankly.
And he raved to me just the same both times.
Not that the others actually refused him-they simply announced their engagements to some one else.
Of course, when he met you he vowed to me that he had never really loved before-that the previous affairs had been merely boyish fancies.
But I don't think you need worry." Anne decided not to worry.
Her feelings were a mixture of relief and resentment.
Roy had certainly told her she was the only one he had ever loved.
No doubt he believed it.
But it was a comfort to feel that she had not, in all likelihood, ruined his life.
There were other goddesses, and Roy, according to Dorothy, must needs be worshipping at some shrine.
That tree was there ever since I was a young girl.
It blew down in the big gale we had in March.
It was rotten at the core." "I'll miss it so," grieved Anne.
The porch gable doesn't seem the same room without it.
I'll never look from its window again without a sense of loss.
It's a great thing for his family.
They're getting a hundred things done that they've always wanted to do but couldn't as long as he was about, the old crank." "He came of an aggravating family," remarked Marilla. "Aggravating?
Well," she conceded grudgingly, "Jane Andrews is home from the West-came last week-and she's going to be married to a Winnipeg millionaire.
You may be sure Mrs. Harmon lost no time in telling it far and wide." "Dear old Jane-I'm so glad," said Anne heartily.
She deserves the good things of life." "Oh, I ain't saying anything against Jane.
She's a nice enough girl. But she isn't in the millionaire class, and you'll find there's not much to recommend that man but his money, that's what.
Mrs. Harmon says he's an Englishman who has made money in mines but _I_ believe he'll turn out to be a Yankee.
He certainly must have money, for he has just showered Jane with jewelry.
Her engagement ring is a diamond cluster so big that it looks like a plaster on Jane's fat paw." Mrs. Lynde could not keep some bitterness out of her tone.
I saw him when he came home last week, and he is so pale and thin I hardly knew him." "He studied very hard last winter," said Anne.
You know he took High Honors in Classics and the Cooper Prize.
It hasn't been taken for five years!
So I think he's rather run down.
Mr. Inglis is worth millions, and they're going to Europe on their wedding tour.
When they come back they'll live in a perfect mansion of marble in Winnipeg.
Jane has only one trouble-she can cook so well and her husband won't let her cook.
He is so rich he hires his cooking done.
They're going to keep a cook and two other maids and a coachman and a man-of-all-work.
But what about _you_, Anne?
I don't hear anything of your being married, after all your college-going." "Oh," laughed Anne, "I am going to be an old maid.
I really can't find any one to suit me.
It was rather wicked of her.
She deliberately meant to remind Mrs. Andrews that if she became an old maid it was not because she had not had at least one chance of marriage.
But Mrs. Harmon took swift revenge. "Well, the over-particular girls generally get left, I notice.
And what's this I hear about Gilbert Blythe being engaged to a Miss Stuart? Charlie Sloane tells me she is perfectly beautiful.
If you don't take care, Anne, all of your beaux will slip through your fingers." Anne decided not to continue her duel with Mrs. Harmon.
You could not fence with an antagonist who met rapier thrust with blow of battle axe. "Since Jane is away," she said, rising haughtily, "I don't think I can stay longer this morning.
I'll come down when she comes home." "Do," said Mrs. Harmon effusively.
Jane isn't a bit proud.
She just means to associate with her old friends the same as ever.
She'll be real glad to see you." Jane's millionaire arrived the last of May and carried her off in a blaze of splendor.
Mrs. Lynde was spitefully gratified to find that Mr. Inglis was every day of forty, and short and thin and grayish.
Mother thinks it is terrible-she thinks Jo might at least take a church in a decent place.
But the wilderness of the Patterson slums will blossom like the rose for me if Jo is there.
Oh, Anne, I'm so happy my heart aches with it." Anne was always glad in the happiness of her friends; but it is sometimes a little lonely to be surrounded everywhere by a happiness that is not your own.
And it was just the same when she went back to Avonlea.
This time it was Diana who was bathed in the wonderful glory that comes to a woman when her first-born is laid beside her.
Anne looked at the white young mother with a certain awe that had never entered into her feelings for Diana before.
Could this pale woman with the rapture in her eyes be the little black-curled, rosy-cheeked Diana she had played with in vanished schooldays?
Anne really could not say conscientiously that she thought him beautiful, but she vowed sincerely that he was sweet and kissable and altogether delightful. "Before he came I wanted a girl, so that I could call her ANNE," said Diana.
But now that little Fred is here I wouldn't exchange him for a million girls.
He just _couldn't_ have been anything but his own precious self." "'Every little baby is the sweetest and the best,'" quoted Mrs. Allan gaily.
If little Anne _had_ come you'd have felt just the same about her." Mrs. Allan was visiting in Avonlea, for the first time since leaving it.
She was as gay and sweet and sympathetic as ever.
Her old girl friends had welcomed her back rapturously.
The reigning minister's wife was an estimable lady, but she was not exactly a kindred spirit. "I can hardly wait till he gets old enough to talk," sighed Diana.
I just long to hear him say 'mother.
And oh, I'm determined that his first memory of me shall be a nice one.
The first memory I have of my mother is of her slapping me for something I had done.
I was five years old, and I had been allowed to go to school one day with my two older sisters.
When school came out my sisters went home in different groups, each supposing I was with the other.
Instead I had run off with a little girl I had played with at recess.
We went to her home, which was near the school, and began making mud pies.
We were having a glorious time when my older sister arrived, breathless and angry. "'You naughty girl" she cried, snatching my reluctant hand and dragging me along with her.
Oh, you're going to catch it!
She is going to give you a good whipping.' "I had never been whipped.
Dread and terror filled my poor little heart.
I have never been so miserable in my life as I was on that walk home.
I had not meant to be naughty.
Phemy Cameron had asked me to go home with her and I had not known it was wrong to go.
And now I was to be whipped for it.
When we got home my sister dragged me into the kitchen where mother was sitting by the fire in the twilight.
My poor wee legs were trembling so that I could hardly stand.
And mother-mother just took me up in her arms, without one word of rebuke or harshness, kissed me and held me close to her heart.
I was so frightened you were lost, darling,' she said tenderly.
I could see the love shining in her eyes as she looked down on me.
She never scolded or reproached me for what I had done-only told me I must never go away again without asking permission.
She died very soon afterwards.
That is the only memory I have of her.
Isn't it a beautiful one?" Anne felt lonelier than ever as she walked home, going by way of the Birch Path and Willowmere.
She had not walked that way for many moons. It was a darkly-purple bloomy night.
The air was heavy with blossom fragrance-almost too heavy.
The cloyed senses recoiled from it as from an overfull cup.
The birches of the path had grown from the fairy saplings of old to big trees.
Anne felt that she would be glad when the summer was over and she was away at work again.
He was sixteen, his chestnut curls had given place to close-cropped brown locks, and he was more interested in football than fairies.
But the bond between him and his old teacher still held.
Kindred spirits alone do not change with changing years. It was a wet, bleak, cruel evening in July when Anne came back to Green Gables.
One of the fierce summer storms which sometimes sweep over the gulf was ravaging the sea.
As Anne came in the first raindrops dashed against the panes. "Was that Paul who brought you home?" asked Marilla.
Why didn't you make him stay all night.
It's going to be a wild evening." "He'll reach Echo Lodge before the rain gets very heavy, I think. Anyway, he wanted to go back tonight.
Well, I've had a splendid visit, but I'm glad to see you dear folks again.
East, west, hame's best.' Davy, have you been growing again lately?" "I've growed a whole inch since you left," said Davy proudly.
I'm as tall as Milty Boulter now.
He'll have to stop crowing about being bigger.
Say, Anne, did you know that Gilbert Blythe is dying?
Anne stood quite silent and motionless, looking at Davy.
Her face had gone so white that Marilla thought she was going to faint. "Davy, hold your tongue," said Mrs. Rachel angrily.
Anne, don't look like that-_don't look like that!_ We didn't mean to tell you so suddenly." "Is-it-true?" asked Anne in a voice that was not hers. "Gilbert is very ill," said Mrs. Lynde gravely.
He took down with typhoid fever just after you left for Echo Lodge.
Did you never hear of it?" "No," said that unknown voice. "It was a very bad case from the start.
The doctor said he'd been terribly run down.
They've a trained nurse and everything's been done. _don't_ look like that, Anne.
At its window she knelt down, staring out unseeingly.
The rain was beating down over the shivering fields.
The Haunted Woods was full of the groans of mighty trees wrung in the tempest, and the air throbbed with the thunderous crash of billows on the distant shore.
And Gilbert was dying! There is a book of Revelation in every one's life, as there is in the Bible.
Anne read hers that bitter night, as she kept her agonized vigil through the hours of storm and darkness.
She loved Gilbert-had always loved him!
She knew that she could no more cast him out of her life without agony than she could have cut off her right hand and cast it from her.
And the knowledge had come too late-too late even for the bitter solace of being with him at the last.
If she had not been so blind-so foolish-she would have had the right to go to him now.
But he would never know that she loved him-he would go away from this life thinking that she did not care.
Oh, the black years of emptiness stretching before her!
She could not live through them-she could not!
She cowered down by her window and wished, for the first time in her gay young life, that she could die, too.
If Gilbert went away from her, without one word or sign or message, she could not live. Nothing was of any value without him.
She belonged to him and he to her.
In her hour of supreme agony she had no doubt of that.
He did not love Christine Stuart-never had loved Christine Stuart.
Oh, what a fool she had been not to realize what the bond was that had held her to Gilbert-to think that the flattered fancy she had felt for Roy Gardner had been love.
Anne saw a fairy fringe of light on the skirts of darkness.
Soon the eastern hilltops had a fire-shot ruby rim.
The clouds rolled themselves away into great, soft, white masses on the horizon; the sky gleamed blue and silvery.
A hush fell over the world. Anne rose from her knees and crept downstairs.
The freshness of the rain-wind blew against her white face as she went out into the yard, and cooled her dry, burning eyes.
A merry rollicking whistle was lilting up the lane.
A moment later Pacifique Buote came in sight. Anne's physical strength suddenly failed her.
If she had not clutched at a low willow bough she would have fallen.
Pacifique was George Fletcher's hired man, and George Fletcher lived next door to the Blythes.
Mrs. Fletcher was Gilbert's aunt.
Pacifique would know if-if-Pacifique would know what there was to be known. Pacifique strode sturdily on along the red lane, whistling.
He did not see Anne.
She made three futile attempts to call him.
He was almost past before she succeeded in making her quivering lips call, "Pacifique!" Pacifique turned with a grin and a cheerful good morning. "Pacifique," said Anne faintly, "did you come from George Fletcher's this morning?" "Sure," said Pacifique amiably.
I got de word las' night dat my fader, he was seeck.
It was so stormy dat I couldn't go den, so I start vair early dis mornin'.
I'm goin' troo de woods for short cut." "Did you hear how Gilbert Blythe was this morning?
Anne's desperation drove her to the question.
Even the worst would be more endurable than this hideous suspense. "He's better," said Pacifique.
He got de turn las' night.
De doctor say he'll be all right now dis soon while.
Dat boy, he jus' keel himself at college.
De old man, he'll be in hurry to see me." Pacifique resumed his walk and his whistle.
Anne gazed after him with eyes where joy was driving out the strained anguish of the night.
He was a very lank, very ragged, very homely youth.
The morning was a cup filled with mist and glamor.
In the corner near her was a rich surprise of new-blown, crystal-dewed roses.
The trills and trickles of song from the birds in the big tree above her seemed in perfect accord with her mood.
I've got to do something to this dress, and by the time it's finished I'll have to get ready.
So Alice Penhallow is to be married tonight.
Three weddings for you in one summer, Anne-Phil's, Alice's, and Jane's.
I'll never forgive Jane for not inviting me to her wedding." "You really can't blame her when you think of the tremendous Andrews connection who had to be invited.
The house could hardly hold them all. I was only bidden by grace of being Jane's old chum-at least on Jane's part.
What with all the diamonds and white satin and tulle and lace and roses and orange blossoms, prim little Jane was almost lost to sight.
But she was _very_ happy, and so was Mr. Inglis-and so was Mrs. Harmon." "Is that the dress you're going to wear tonight?" asked Gilbert, looking down at the fluffs and frills. "Yes.
And I shall wear starflowers in my hair.
The vision made him catch his breath.
But he turned lightly away. "Well, I'll be up tomorrow.
Hope you'll have a nice time tonight." Anne looked after him as he strode away, and sighed.
Gilbert was friendly-very friendly-far too friendly.
He had come quite often to Green Gables after his recovery, and something of their old comradeship had returned.
But Anne no longer found it satisfying.
The rose of love made the blossom of friendship pale and scentless by contrast.
And Anne had again begun to doubt if Gilbert now felt anything for her but friendship.
In the common light of common day her radiant certainty of that rapt morning had faded.
She was haunted by a miserable fear that her mistake could never be rectified.
It was quite likely that it was Christine whom Gilbert loved after all.
Perhaps he was even engaged to her.
Anne tried to put all unsettling hopes out of her heart, and reconcile herself to a future where work and ambition must take the place of love.
She wore a green dress-not the one she had worn to the wedding, but an old one which Gilbert had told her at a Redmond reception he liked especially.
It was just the shade of green that brought out the rich tints of her hair, and the starry gray of her eyes and the iris-like delicacy of her skin.
Gilbert, glancing at her sideways as they walked along a shadowy woodpath, thought she had never looked so lovely.
Anne, glancing sideways at Gilbert, now and then, thought how much older he looked since his illness.
It was as if he had put boyhood behind him forever. The day was beautiful and the way was beautiful.
Then it had been lovely with narcissus and violets; now golden rod had kindled its fairy torches in the corners and asters dotted it bluely.
It wouldn't do for us to have all our dreams fulfilled.
We would be as good as dead if we had nothing left to dream about.
What a delicious aroma that low-descending sun is extracting from the asters and ferns.
I wish we could see perfumes as well as smell them.
I'm sure they would be very beautiful." Gilbert was not to be thus sidetracked. "I have a dream," he said slowly.
I persist in dreaming it, although it has often seemed to me that it could never come true.
I dream of a home with a hearth-fire in it, a cat and dog, the footsteps of friends-and _you!_" Anne wanted to speak but she could find no words.
Happiness was breaking over her like a wave.
It almost frightened her. "I asked you a question over two years ago, Anne.
If I ask it again today will you give me a different answer?" Still Anne could not speak.
But she lifted her eyes, shining with all the love-rapture of countless generations, and looked into his for a moment.
He wanted no other answer. They lingered in the old garden until twilight, sweet as dusk in Eden must have been, crept over it.
I knew it and she knew I knew it.
When her brother graduated he told me his sister was coming to Kingsport the next winter to take music, and asked me if I would look after her a bit, as she knew no one and would be very lonely.
And then I liked Christine for her own sake.
She is one of the nicest girls I've ever known.
I knew college gossip credited us with being in love with each other.
Nothing mattered much to me for a time there, after you told me you could never love me, Anne.
There was nobody else-there never could be anybody else for me but you.
I believed it until one blessed day when I was sitting up after the fever.
I got a letter from Phil Gordon-Phil Blake, rather-in which she told me there was really nothing between you and Roy, and advised me to 'try again.
Well, the doctor was amazed at my rapid recovery after that." Anne laughed-then shivered. "I can never forget the night I thought you were dying, Gilbert.
Oh, I knew-I _knew_ then-and I thought it was too late." "But it wasn't, sweetheart.
Oh, Anne, this makes up for everything, doesn't it?
Let's resolve to keep this day sacred to perfect beauty all our lives for the gift it has given us." "It's the birthday of our happiness," said Anne softly.
I've always loved this old garden of Hester Gray's, and now it will be dearer than ever." "But I'll have to ask you to wait a long time, Anne," said Gilbert sadly.
It will be three years before I'll finish my medical course. And even then there will be no diamond sunbursts and marble halls." Anne laughed. "I don't want sunbursts and marble halls.
You see I'm quite as shameless as Phil about it.
Sunbursts and marble halls may be all very well, but there is more 'scope for imagination' without them.
And as for the waiting, that doesn't matter.
We'll just be happy, waiting and working for each other-and dreaming.
Oh, dreams will be very sweet now." Gilbert drew her close to him and kissed her.
Then they walked home together in the dusk, crowned king and queen in the bridal realm of love, along winding paths fringed with the sweetest flowers that ever bloomed, and over haunted meadows where winds of hope and memory blew.
Content in a New Form: Who Will Use It and What Will They Do? James Daly (Moderator) Avra Michelson, Overview Susan H.
Veccia, User Evaluation Joanne Freeman, Beyond the Scholar Discussion Session II.
Show and Tell Jacqueline Hess (Moderator) Elli Mylonas, Perseus Project Discussion Eric M.
Calaluca, Patrologia Latina Database Carl Fleischhauer and Ricky Erway, American Memory Discussion Dorothy Twohig, The Papers of George Washington Discussion Maria L.
Lebron, The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials Discussion Lynne K.
Personius, Cornell mathematics books Discussion Session III.
Distribution, Networks, and Networking: Options for Dissemination Robert G.
Lynch Discussion Howard Besser Discussion Ronald L.
Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and Image Storage Formats William L.
Hooton (Moderator) A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text: direct scanning, use of microform Anne R.
Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts Susan Hockey (Moderator) Stuart Weibel Discussion C.M. Sperberg-McQueen Discussion Eric M.
Copyright Issues Marybeth Peters Session VII.
Most attendees gained much in insight and outlook from the event.
But within this broad field the attendees represented a variety of formal, informal, figurative, and literal groups, with many individuals belonging to more than one.
This introduction was written by DALY and Carl FLEISCHHAUER. PRESERVATION AND IMAGING Preservation, as that term is used by archivists,(3) was most explicitly discussed in the context of imaging.
The books returned to the library shelves are high-quality and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last a long time.
Do not be too narrow in defining what counts as a preservation element, BATTIN counseled; for the present, at least, digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly standardized as, say, microfilm copies with the same objective.
Setting standards precipitously can inhibit creativity, but delay can result in chaos, she advised. In part, BATTIN's position reflected the unsettled nature of image-format standards, and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the comments of various speakers.
For example, Jean BARONAS reviewed the status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts; and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting document images on Internet.
Testimony from participants in the National Agricultural Library's (NAL) Text Digitization Program and LC's American Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation or interchange of images, including difficulties in converting preservation microfilm to digital form.
Michael SPERBERG-McQUEEN made a forceful presentation on the Text Encoding Initiative's (TEI) implementation of the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML).
His ideas were echoed by Susan HOCKEY, Elli MYLONAS, and Stuart WEIBEL.
While the presentations made by the TEI advocates contained no practicum, their discussion focused on the value of the finished product, what the European Community calls reusability, but what may also be termed durability.
They argued that marking up--that is, coding--a text in a well-conceived way will permit it to be moved from one computer environment to another, as well as to be used by various users.
SPERBERG-McQUEEN reminded listeners that a written or printed item (e.g., a particular edition of a book) is merely a representation of the abstraction we call a text.
To concern ourselves with faithfully reproducing a printed instance of the text, SPERBERG-McQUEEN argued, is to concern ourselves with the representation of a representation ("images as simulacra for the text").
But he was not convinced that electronic images constitute a serious attempt to represent text in electronic form.
In the case of American Memory, contractors produce texts with about 99-percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or "reference" versions of written or printed originals.
End users who need faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby library or archive.
ZIDAR explained how NAL purchased hardware and software capable of performing optical character recognition (OCR) and text conversion and used its own staff to convert texts.
The process, ZIDAR said, required extensive editing and project staff found themselves considering alternatives, including rekeying and/or creating abstracts or summaries of texts.
NAL reckoned costs at $7 per page.
By way of contrast, Ricky ERWAY explained that American Memory had decided from the start to contract out conversion to external service bureaus.
The criteria used to select these contractors were cost and quality of results, as opposed to methods of conversion.
ERWAY noted that historical documents or books often do not lend themselves to OCR. Bound materials represent a special problem.
In her experience, quality control--inspecting incoming materials, counting errors in samples--posed the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out conversion.
ERWAY reckoned American Memory's costs at $4 per page, but cautioned that fewer cost-elements had been included than in NAL's figure. OPTIONS FOR DISSEMINATION The topic of dissemination proper emerged at various points during the Workshop.
At the session devoted to national and international computer networks, LYNCH, Howard BESSER, Ronald LARSEN, and Edwin BROWNRIGG highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will evolve from Internet.
Listeners could discern in these narratives a vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely find and use what they need.
LYNCH noted that a lack of standards inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also discussed by BESSER.
LARSEN addressed the issues of network scalability and modularity and commented upon the difficulty of anticipating the effects of growth in orders of magnitude.
BROWNRIGG talked about the ability of packet radio to provide certain links in a network without the need for wiring.
However, the presenters also called attention to the shortcomings and incongruities of present-day computer networks.
For example: 1) Network use is growing dramatically, but much network traffic consists of personal communication (E-mail).
2) Large bodies of information are available, but a user's ability to search across their entirety is limited.
The Perseus and American Memory examples demonstrated recently published disks, while the descriptions of the IBYCUS version of the Papers of George Washington and Chadwyck-Healey's Patrologia Latina Database (PLD) told of disks to come.
As noted above, those interested in imaging discussed the problematical matter of digital preservation, while the TEI proponents described how machine-readable texts can be used in research.
Internet now carries more than 700 conferences, with about 80 percent of these devoted to topics in the social sciences and the humanities.
Other scholars use on-line networks for "distance learning." Meanwhile, there has been a tremendous growth in end-user computing; professors today are less likely than their predecessors to ask the campus computer center to process their data.
The Workshop was also valuable to attendees--including those involved with American Memory--who came less committed to particular approaches or concepts.
In the realm of machine-readable texts, one encounters a reasonably mature standard but methodological difficulties and high costs.
These latter problems, of course, represent a special impediment to the desire, as it is sometimes expressed in the popular press, "to put the [contents of the] Library of Congress on line.
But an even larger issue deserving mention, in GIFFORD's view, was the phenomenal growth in Internet connectivity.
In this connection, GIFFORD requested that participants reflect from the outset upon the sorts of outcomes they thought the Workshop might have.
Did those present constitute a group with sufficient common interests to propose a next step or next steps, and if so, what might those be?
In the course of these efforts, AM kept coming back to textual materials--manuscripts or rare printed matter, bound materials, etc. Text posed the greatest conversion challenge of all.
Thus, the genesis of the Workshop, which reflects the problems faced by AM. These problems include physical problems.
For example, those in the library and archive business deal with collections made up of fragile and rare manuscript items, bound materials, especially the notoriously brittle bound materials of the late nineteenth century.
These are precious cultural artifacts, however, as well as interesting sources of information, and LC desires to retain and conserve them.
AM needs to handle things without damaging them.
Guillotining a book to run it through a sheet feeder must be avoided at all costs. Beyond physical problems, issues pertaining to quality arose.
For example, the desire to provide users with a searchable text is affected by the question of acceptable level of accuracy.
One hundred percent accuracy is tremendously expensive.
An image might be desirable as a recourse for users if one could not provide 100-percent accurate text.
Again, AM wondered, as a practical matter, if a distinction could be drawn between rare printed matter that might exist in multiple collections--that is, in ten or fifteen libraries.
In such cases, the need for perfect reproduction would be less than for unique items.
Implicit in his remarks, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, was the admission that AM has been tilting strongly towards quantity and drawing back a little from perfect quality.
That is, it seemed to AM that society would be better served if more things were distributed by LC--even if they were not quite perfect--than if fewer things, perfectly represented, were distributed.
He expressed the hope that David Woodley Packard might be able to attend, noting that Packard's work and the work of the foundation had sponsored a number of projects in the text area. ****** SESSION I.
Nor would he have had to frequent as often the Milton S.
Eisenhower Library at the Johns Hopkins University to consult the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae.
Indeed, even in the course of his browsing the Latin authors disk at Rutgers, its powerful search, retrieval, and highlighting capabilities suggested to him several new avenues of research into Virgil's use of sound effects.
She drew on collaborative work with Jeff Rothenberg on the scholarly use of technology. MICHELSON sought to place the phenomenon of electronic texts within the context of broader trends within information technology and scholarly communication.
Researchers 1) identify sources, 2) communicate with their colleagues, 3) interpret and analyze data, 4) disseminate their research findings, and 5) prepare curricula to instruct the next generation of scholars and students.
So, for example, instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore descriptions of holdings in their offices.
Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are using E-mail and a variety of new electronic communications formats derived from it for further academic interchange.
E-mail exchanges are growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.
They currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and education networks.
The rate of growth of these scholarly electronic conferences also is astonishing.
From l990 to l991, 200 new conferences were identified on Internet.
From October 1991 to June 1992, an additional 150 conferences in the social sciences and humanities were added to this directory of listings.
Scholars have established conferences in virtually every field, within every different discipline.
For example, there are currently close to 600 active social science and humanities conferences on topics such as art and architecture, ethnomusicology, folklore, Japanese culture, medical education, and gifted and talented education.
The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis. Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both ends of this continuum.
For example, computers can count.
They can count brush strokes used in a Rembrandt painting or perform regression analysis for understanding cause and effect.
By means of advanced technologies, computers can recognize patterns, analyze text, and model concepts.
Furthermore, computers can complete these processes faster with more sources and with greater precision than scholars who must rely on manual interpretation of data.
But if scholars are to use computers for these processes, source materials must be in a form amenable to computer-assisted analysis.
For this reason many scholars, once they have identified the sources that are key to their research, are converting them to machine-readable form.
Thus, a representative example of the numerous textual conversion projects organized by scholars around the world in recent years to support computational text analysis is the TLG, the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae.
This project is devoted to converting the extant ancient texts of classical Greece. (Editor's note: according to the TLG Newsletter of May l992, TLG was in use in thirty-two different countries.
This figure updates MICHELSON's previous count by one.) The scholars performing these conversions have been asked to recognize that the electronic sources they are converting for one use possess value for other research purposes as well.
As a result, during the past few years, humanities scholars have initiated a number of projects to increase scholarly access to converted text.
The center estimates that there are 8,000 series of source texts in the humanities that have been converted to machine-readable form worldwide.
CETH is undertaking an international search for converted text in the humanities, compiling it into an electronic library, and preparing bibliographic descriptions of the sources for the Research Libraries Information Network's (RLIN) machine-readable data file.
Scholars are using existing research and education networks to engineer a new type of publication: scholarly-controlled journals that are electronically produced and disseminated.
Although such journals are still emerging as a communication format, their number has grown, from approximately twelve to thirty-six during the past year (July 1991 to June 1992).
Most of these electronic scholarly journals are devoted to topics in the humanities.
Beyond scholarly journals, MICHELSON remarked the delivery of commercial full-text products, such as articles in professional journals, newsletters, magazines, wire services, and reference sources.
These are being delivered via on-line local library catalogues, especially through CD-ROMs.
Such programs interactively link teachers with students in geographically scattered locations and rely on the availability of electronic instructional resources.
Distance education programs are gaining wide appeal among state departments of education because of their demonstrated capacity to bring advanced specialized course work and an array of experts to many classrooms.
First is the extent to which electronic text in particular, and electronic resources in general, are being infused into each of the five processes described above.
MICHELSON noted further that the movement toward a comprehensive on-line working context for humanities scholars is not new.
In fact, it has been underway for more than forty years in the humanities, since Father Roberto Busa began developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas in 1949.
What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the beginning of this on-line transition but, for at least some humanities scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an electronic working context.
Coinciding with the on-line transition, the second striking change is the extent to which research and education networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.
The existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network (NREN) represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most current publications in their field, and high-level educational offerings.
By avoiding programmer intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researcher's thought process.
2) Scholars are using these electronic texts, in conjunction with other electronic resources, in all the processes of scholarly communication.
3) The humanities scholars' working context is in the process of changing from print technology to electronic technology, in many ways mirroring transformations that have occurred or are occurring within the scientific community.
2) The prospects for electronic texts lie in their capacity to be integrated into the on-line network of electronic resources that comprise the new working context for scholars.
First, by way of introduction, VECCIA explained her and FREEMAN's roles in American Memory (AM).
Serving principally as an observer, VECCIA has assisted with the evaluation project of AM, placing AM collections in a variety of different sites around the country and helping to organize and implement that project.
FREEMAN has been an associate coordinator of AM and has been involved principally with the interpretative materials, preparing some of the electronic exhibits and printed historical information that accompanies AM and that is requested by users.
VECCIA and FREEMAN shared anecdotal observations concerning AM with public users of electronic resources.
In terms of the design of this system, the interpretative exhibits have been kept separate from the primary resources, with good reason.
Having started in spring 1991, the evaluation currently involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM. Since the primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.
This makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology literacy among the sites.
AM is situated in forty-four locations, of which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.
They represent a range of geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.
For example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and one in a suburban setting.
A range of technical expertise is to be found among these facilities as well.
VECCIA characterized various users: Most users in public libraries describe themselves as general readers; of the students who use AM in the public libraries, those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.
The format receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.
The adult users in public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of them seem to come from a Macintosh background.
This same tendency is found in the schools. What kinds of things do users do with AM?
In a public library there are two main goals or ways that AM is being used: as an individual learning tool, and as a leisure activity.
At the end of his hour he makes an electronic bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.
The next day he comes in and resumes where he left off.
In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.
A number of public libraries reported great interest among postcard collectors in the Detroit collection, which was essentially a collection of images used on postcards around the turn of the century.
Train buffs are similarly interested because that was a time of great interest in railroading. People, it was found, relate to things that they know of firsthand.
In one case, AM is being used as a vehicle to secure additional funding for the library.
There is often some difficulty in developing a sense of what the system contains.
Many students sit down at a computer resource and assume that, because AM comes from the Library of Congress, all of American history is now at their fingertips.
As a result of that sort of mistaken judgment, some students are known to conclude that AM contains nothing of use to them when they look for one or two things and do not find them.
It is difficult to discover that middle ground where one has a sense of what the system contains.
That distinction is often difficult for people in a school environment to grasp.
Because of that, it occasionally becomes difficult to draw conclusions from what one is viewing. FREEMAN also noted the obvious fear of the computer, which constitutes a difficulty in using an electronic resource.
Though students in general did not suffer from this anxiety, several older students feared that they were computer-illiterate, an assumption that became self-fulfilling when they searched for something but failed to find it.
FREEMAN said she believed that some teachers also fear computer resources, because they believe they lack complete control.
FREEMAN related the example of teachers shooing away students because it was not their time to use the system.
She noted the occasional existence of a gap in communication between school librarians and teachers.
Often AM sits in a school library and the librarian is the person responsible for monitoring the system.
Teachers do not always take into their world new library resources about which the librarian is excited.
Indeed, at the sites where AM had been used most effectively within a library, the librarian was required to go to specific teachers and instruct them in its use.
Centralization of equipment at the district level, with teachers invited to download things and walk away with them, proved unsuccessful because the hours these offices were open were also school hours. Another issue was hardware.
As VECCIA observed, a range of sites exists, some technologically advanced and others essentially acquiring their first computer for the primary purpose of using it in conjunction with AM's testing.
In learning to conduct research and what it means, students are motivated to seek knowledge.
These would, they thought, foster personally motivated research, exploration, and excitement in their students.
Indeed, these materials have done just that.
Ironically, however, this lack of structure produces some of the confusion to which the newness of these kinds of resources may also contribute.
No studies exist to offer guidance in creating strategies.
The most recent study was conducted in 1985 by the American Council of Learned Societies (ACLS), and what it showed was that 50 percent of humanities scholars at that time were using computers.
But FREEMAN conceded that the project staff would have to talk with students next year, after teachers have had a summer to use the materials, and attempt to discover what the students were learning from the materials.
In addition, FREEMAN described supporting materials in print provided by AM at the request of local teachers during a meeting held at LC.
These included time lines, bibliographies, and other materials that could be reproduced on a photocopier in a classroom.
Teachers could walk away with and use these, and in this way gain a better understanding of the contents.
NARA is just beginning to establish its role and what it can do.
In terms of changes and initiatives that NARA can take, no clear response could be given at this time. GREENFIELD remarked two trends mentioned in the session.
Reflecting on DALY's opening comments on how he could have used a Latin collection of text in an electronic form, he said that at first he thought most scholars would be unwilling to do that.
But as he thought of that in terms of the original meaning of research--that is, having already mastered these texts, researching them for critical and comparative purposes--for the first time, the electronic format made a lot of sense.
GREENFIELD could envision growing numbers of scholars learning the new technologies for that very aspect of their scholarship and for convenience's sake. Listening to VECCIA and FREEMAN, GREENFIELD thought of an additional application of electronic texts.
He realized that AM could be used as a guide to lead someone to original sources.
Students cannot be expected to have mastered these sources, things they have never known about before.
Thus, AM is leading them, in theory, to a vast body of information and giving them a superficial overview of it, enabling them to select parts of it.
GREENFIELD asked if any evidence exists that this resource will indeed teach the new user, the K-12 students, how to do research.
Scholars already know how to do research and are applying these new tools.
But he wondered why students would go beyond picking out things that were most exciting to them. FREEMAN conceded the correctness of GREENFIELD's observation as applied to a school environment.
She viewed the situation not as one of fine-tuning research skills but of involving students at a personal level in understanding and researching things.
SHOW AND TELL Jacqueline HESS, director, National Demonstration Laboratory, served as moderator of the "show-and-tell" session.
The number of objects and the objects for which catalog entries exist are accompanied by thousands of color images, which constitute a major feature of the database.
Perseus contains approximately 30 megabytes of text, an amount that will double in subsequent versions.
Since Perseus decided to opt for very high quality, all of its primary materials exist in a system-independent--insofar as it is possible to be system-independent--archival form.
Images, or rather the real archival forms, consist of the best available slides, which are being digitized.
Much of the catalog material exists in database form--a form that the average user could use, manipulate, and display on a personal computer, but only at great cost.
Thus, this is where the concession comes in: All of this rich, well-marked-up information is stripped of much of its content; the images are converted into bit-maps and the text into small formatted chunks.
All this information can then be imported into HyperCard and run on a mid-range Macintosh, which is what Perseus users have.
This fact has made it possible for Perseus to attain wide use fairly rapidly.
Part of what makes Perseus such a pleasure to use, MYLONAS said, is this effort at seamless integration and the ability to move around both visual and textual material.
Perseus also made the decision not to attempt to interpret its material any more than one interprets by selecting.
But, MYLONAS emphasized, Perseus is not courseware: No syllabus exists.
There is no effort to define how one teaches a topic using Perseus, although the project may eventually collect papers by people who have used it to teach.
Rather, Perseus aims to provide primary material in a kind of electronic library, an electronic sandbox, so to say, in which students and scholars who are working on this material can explore by themselves.
Then it was discovered that one can do things searching in these databases that could not be done searching in the full texts.
Thus, although there are full-text searches in Perseus, much of the work is done behind the scenes, using prepared indices.
Re the indexing that is done behind the scenes, MYLONAS pointed out that without the SGML forms of the text, it could not be done effectively.
Without words, pictures are useless; Perseus has not reached the point where it can do much with images that are not cataloged.
MYLONAS illustrated several generic scenes of sacrifice on vases.
For instance, students in a core course at Harvard this year were highly interested in Greek concepts of foreigners and representations of non-Greeks.
So they performed a great deal of research, both with texts (e.g., Herodotus) and with iconography on vases and coins, on how the Greeks portrayed non-Greeks.
Students were able to use primary material much more. The Perseus Project has an evaluation team at the University of Maryland that has been documenting Perseus' effects on education.
These are handmade links into other material. To different extents, most of the production work was done at Harvard, where the people and the equipment are located.
Thus, much of the work has involved writing essays, collecting information, rewriting it, and tagging it.
That can be done off site.
PLD's principal focus from the beginning of the project about three-and-a-half years ago was on converting Migne's Latin series, and in the end, CALALUCA suggested, conversion of the text will be the major contribution to scholarship.
Should one convert Migne? Should the database be encoded?
Is it necessary to do that?
How should it be delivered?
Since this is a transitional medium, why even bother to create software to run on a CD-ROM?
Since everybody knows people will be networking information, why go to the trouble--which is far greater with CD-ROM than with the production of magnetic data?
Finally, how does one make the data available?
Thus, PLD is not the final act in electronic publishing for this discipline, but simply the beginning.
The conversion of PLD has evoked numerous unanticipated questions: How will information be used? What about networking?
Can the rights of a database be protected? Should one protect the rights of a database?
How can it be made available? Those converting PLD also tried to avoid the sins of omission, that is, excluding portions of the collections or whole sections.
PLD is full of images, some are extremely pious nineteenth-century representations of the Fathers, while others contain highly interesting elements.
CALALUCA sees PLD as a database that can, and should, be run under a variety of retrieval softwares.
In the end, the encoding and conversion of the data will prove the most enduring testament to the value of the project. The encoding of the database was also a hard-fought issue: Did the database need to be encoded?
Were there normative structures for encoding humanist texts?
What about the TEI--will it last, will it prove useful?
CALALUCA expressed some minor doubts as to whether a data bank can be fully TEI-conformant.
Every effort can be made, but in the end to be TEI-conformant means to accept the need to make some firm encoding decisions that can, indeed, be disputed.
The TEI points the publisher in a proper direction but does not presume to make all the decisions for him or her.
The software was created by Electronic Book Technologies of Providence, RI, and is called Dynatext.
The software works only with SGML-coded data. Viewing a table of contents on the screen, the audience saw how Dynatext treats each element as a book and attempts to simplify movement through a volume.
He said that the exciting thing about PLD is that many of the applications in the retrieval software being written for it will exceed the capabilities of the software employed now for the CD-ROM version.
In the present case, the contractor, a company named Quick Source, in Silver Spring, MD., used software called Toolbook and put together a modestly interactive introduction to the collection.
Like the two preceding speakers, FLEISCHHAUER argued that the real asset was the underlying collection. FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to describe various search and retrieval capabilities while ERWAY worked the computer.
FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated both automatic stemming (which finds other forms of the same root) and a truncated search.
One of Personal Librarian's strongest features, the relevance ranking, was represented by a chart that indicated how often words being sought appeared in documents, with the one receiving the most "hits" obtaining the highest score.
He awarded a grade of C at best, perhaps a C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.
Indeed, the matter of learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and, in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.
With this scenario, he proceeded to illustrate other features of Personal Librarian that he considered helpful; for example, it provides the ability to notice words as one reads.
Clicking the "include" button on the bottom of the search window pops the words that have been highlighted into the search.
Thus, a user can refine the search as he or she reads, re-executing the search and continuing to find things in the quest for materials.
Their search strategies and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by the Perseus example.
Echoing a previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and retrieval.
AM contains a large number of photographs in analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.
These constituted approximately three hours of audio, as AM has digitized it, which occupy 150 megabytes on a CD.
Thus, they are considerably compressed.
FLEISCHHAUER also demonstrated a motion picture.
As FREEMAN had reported earlier, the motion picture materials have proved the most popular, not surprisingly.
These were the very first films made by Thomas Edison's company and some others at that time.
The particular example illustrated was a Biograph film, brought in with a frame-grabber into a window.
A single videodisc contains about fifty titles and pieces of film from that period, all of New York City.
The frame-grabber devices create a window on a computer screen, which permits users to digitize a single frame of the movie or one of the photographs.
FLEISCHHAUER conceded that he ought to have articulated his point more clearly.
MYLONAS stated that they were in fact both talking about the same thing.
By searching for words and by forcing people to focus on the word, the Perseus Project felt that they would get them to the idea.
In the Macintosh environment, for example, there probably are 35,000-40,000 photographs.
The sound recordings number sixty items.
The broadsides number about 300 items.
There are 500 political cartoons in the form of drawings.
The motion pictures, as individual items, number sixty to seventy. AM also has a manuscript collection, the life history portion of one of the federal project series, which will contain 2,900 individual documents, all first-person narratives.
AM has in process about 350 African-American pamphlets, or about 12,000 printed pages for the period 1870-1910.
Also in the works are some 4,000 panoramic photographs.
AM has recycled a fair amount of the work done by LC's Prints and Photographs Division during the Library's optical disk pilot project in the 1980s.
For example, a special division of LC has tooled up and thought through all the ramifications of electronic presentation of photographs.
But that drama remains to be enacted.
TWOHIG stressed, however, that development of the Founding Fathers CD-ROM is still in its infancy.
Slides illustrated several of the problems encountered, for example, the present inability of CD-ROM to indicate the cross-outs (deleted material) in eighteenth century documents.
However, the transcriptions receive a cursory check for obvious typos, the misspellings of proper names, and other errors from the WPP CD-ROM editor.
Eventually, all documents that appear in the electronic version will be checked by project editors.
At the moment, the Founding Fathers CD-ROM is accessible only on the IBYCUS, a computer developed out of the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae project and designed for the use of classical scholars.
The joint venture between AAAS and OCLC owes its beginning to a reorganization launched by the new chief executive officer at OCLC about three years ago and combines the strengths of these two disparate organizations.
In short, OJCCT represents the process of scholarly publishing on line. LEBRON next discussed several practices the on-line environment shares with traditional publishing on hard copy--for example, peer review of manuscripts--that are highly important in the academic world.
LEBRON noted in particular the implications of citation counts for tenure committees and grants committees.
Clinical trials are research activities that involve the administration of a test treatment to some experimental unit in order to test its usefulness before it is made available to the general population.
AAAS's capacity to download materials directly from the journal to a subscriber's printer, hard drive, or floppy disk helps ensure highly accurate transcription.
Once a subscriber logs onto the journal he or she has access not only to the currently published materials, but retrospectively to everything that has been published in it.
Thus the table of contents grows bigger.
However, only one person can access the journal at a time.
Within Cornell, participants in the project have been working jointly with both library and information technologies.
Acknowledging the familiarity of those working in preservation with this information, PERSONIUS noted that several things are being done: the primary preservation technology used today is photocopying of brittle material.
Saving the intellectual content of the material is the main goal.
Project staff scan books at a workstation located in the library, near the brittle material. An image-server filing system is located at a distance from that workstation, and a printer is located in another building.
All of the materials digitized and stored on the image-filing system are cataloged in the on-line catalogue.
In fact, a record for each of these electronic books is stored in the RLIN database so that a record exists of what is in the digital library throughout standard catalogue procedures.
In the future, researchers working from their own workstations in their offices, or their networks, will have access--wherever they might be--through a request server being built into the new digital library.
A second assumption is that the preferred means of finding the material will be by looking through a catalogue.
PERSONIUS described the scanning process, which uses a prototype scanner being developed by Xerox and which scans a very high resolution image at great speed.
Another significant feature, because this is a preservation application, is the placing of the pages that fall apart one for one on the platen.
Ordinarily, a scanner could be used with some sort of a document feeder, but because of this application that is not feasible.
Further, because CLASS is a preservation application, after the paper replacement is made there, a very careful quality control check is performed.
An original book is compared to the printed copy and verification is made, before proceeding, that all of the image, all of the information, has been captured.
Thus, the project has a library of digital books.
In essence, CLASS is scanning and storing books as 600 dot-per-inch bit-mapped images, compressed using Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French acronym for International Consultative Committee for Telegraph and Telephone) compression.
They are stored as TIFF files on an optical filing system that is composed of a database used for searching and locating the books and an optical jukebox that stores 64 twelve-inch platters.
Xerox Corporation has developed a prototype of a view station that can send images across the network to be viewed. The particular library brought down for demonstration contained two mathematics books.
CLASS is developing and will spend the next year developing an application that allows people at workstations to browse the books.
Eventually, compression and decompression will take place on an image conversion server.
Because the material being scanned is about 100 years old and was printed with less-than-ideal technologies, very early and preliminary tests have not produced good results.
But the project is capturing an image that is of sufficient resolution to be subjected to OCR in the future.
Moreover, the system architecture and the system plan have a logical place to store an OCR image if it has been captured.
But that is not being done now. ****** SESSION III.
ZICH expressed the hope that members of the audience would join the discussion.
He stressed the subtitle of this particular session, "Options for Dissemination," and, concerning CD-ROMs, the importance of determining when it would be wise to consider dissemination in CD-ROM versus networks.
A shopping list of issues pertaining to CD-ROMs included: the grounds for selecting commercial publishers, and in-house publication where possible versus nonprofit or government publication.
If an outside publisher is used, it can be nonprofit, such as the Government Printing Office (GPO) or the National Technical Information Service (NTIS), in the case of government.
The pros and cons associated with employing an outside publisher are obvious.
Among the pros, there is no trouble getting accepted.
One pays the bill and, in effect, goes one's way.
Among the cons, when one pays an outside publisher to perform the work, that publisher will perform the work it is obliged to do, but perhaps without the production expertise and skill in marketing and dissemination that some would seek.
There is the body of commercial publishers that do possess that kind of expertise in distribution and marketing but that obviously are selective.
In self-publication, one exercises full control, but then one must handle matters such as distribution and marketing.
LYNCH contended that creating genuinely networked information was different from using networks as an access or dissemination vehicle and was more sophisticated and more subtle.
He differentiated CD-ROM from the practices that have been followed up to now in distributing data on CD-ROM.
For LYNCH the problem with CD-ROM is not its portability or its slowness but the two-edged sword of having the retrieval application and the user interface inextricably bound up with the data, which is the typical CD-ROM publication model.
It is not a case of publishing data but of distributing a typically stand-alone, typically closed system, all--software, user interface, and data--on a little disk.
Hence, all the between-disk navigational issues as well as the impossibility in most cases of integrating data on one disk with that on another.
Most CD-ROM retrieval software does not network very gracefully at present.
It resembles an island, and in this respect is similar to numerous stand-alone projects that are based on videodiscs, that is, on the single-workstation concept. As scholarship evolves in a network environment, the paramount need will be to link databases.
Several databases in a sense constitute information archives without a significant amount of navigation built in. Educators, critics, and others will want a layered structure--one that defines or links paths through the layers to allow users to reach specific points.
In LYNCH's view, layering will become increasingly necessary, and not just within a single resource but across resources (e.g., tracing mythology and cultural themes across several classics databases as well as a database of Renaissance culture).
This project's objective is to produce a database of engineering courseware as well as the components that can be used to develop new courseware.
In a number of the existing applications, LYNCH said, the issue of reuse (how much one can take apart and reuse in other applications) was not being well considered.
He also raised the issue of active versus passive use, one aspect of which is how much information will be manipulated locally by users.
Most people, he argued, may do a little browsing and then will wish to print.
LYNCH was uncertain how these resources would be used by the vast majority of users in the network environment. LYNCH next said a few words about X-Windows as a way of differentiating between network access and networked information.
A number of the applications demonstrated at the Workshop could be rewritten to use X across the network, so that one could run them from any X-capable device- -a workstation, an X terminal--and transact with a database across the network.
Although this opens up access a little, assuming one has enough network to handle it, it does not provide an interface to develop a program that conveniently integrates information from multiple databases. X is a viewing technology that has limits.
In a real sense, it is just a graphical version of remote log-in across the network.
X-type applications represent only one step in the progression towards real access. LYNCH next discussed barriers to the distribution of networked multimedia information.
The heart of the problem is a lack of standards to provide the ability for computers to talk to each other, retrieve information, and shuffle it around fairly casually.
At the moment, little progress is being made on standards for networked information; for example, present standards do not cover images, digital voice, and digital video.
A useful tool kit of exchange formats for basic texts is only now being assembled.
In LYNCH's view, highly important in this context is the notion of networked digital object IDs, the ability of one object on the network to point to another object (or component thereof) on the network.
Serious bandwidth issues also exist.
LYNCH was uncertain if billion-bit-per-second networks would prove sufficient if numerous people ran video in parallel. LYNCH concluded by offering an issue for database creators to consider, as well as several comments about what might constitute good trial multimedia experiments.
In a networked information world the database builder or service builder (publisher) does not exercise the same extensive control over the integrity of the presentation; strange programs "munge" with one's data before the user sees it.
Serious thought must be given to what guarantees integrity of presentation.
Part of that is related to where one draws the boundaries around a networked information service.
He recommended producing multimedia with either very high sale value, or multimedia with a very long life span, or multimedia that will have a very broad usage base and whose costs therefore can be amortized among large numbers of users.
In this connection, historical and humanistically oriented material may be a good place to start, because it tends to have a longer life span than much of the scientific material, as well as a wider user base.
LYNCH noted, for example, that American Memory fits many of the criteria outlined.
However, many of those things do not seem to have piqued great popular interest.
For example, his recollection was that the National Library of Medicine feels strongly that one needs to employ the identifier field if he or she is to mount a database commercially.
The problem with a real networked environment is that one does not know who is reformatting and reprocessing one's data when one enters a client server mode.
It becomes anybody's guess, for example, if the network uses a Z39.50 server, or what clients are doing with one's data.
A data provider can say that his contract will only permit clients to have access to his data after he vets them and their presentation and makes certain it suits him.
Moreover, until relatively recently, one had to be rather adroit to run a full TCP/IP stack plus applications on a PC-size machine, whereas nowadays it is becoming easier as PCs grow bigger and faster.
A result would be that users with less powerful workstations would simply have less functionality.
BESSER then proceeded to the question of file size and its implications for networking.
Storing images the size of a PC screen (just 8 bit color) increases storage capacity to 4,000-12,000 images per gigabyte; 60 percent of that gives one the size of a CD-ROM, which in turn creates a major problem.
One cannot have full-screen, full-color images with lossless compression; one must compress them or use a lower resolution.
For megabyte-size images, anything slower than a T-1 speed is impractical.
For example, on a fifty-six-kilobaud line, it takes three minutes to transfer a one-megabyte file, if it is not compressed; and this speed assumes ideal circumstances (no other user contending for network bandwidth).
Thus, questions of disk access, remote display, and current telephone connection speed make transmission of megabyte-size images impractical. BESSER then discussed ways to deal with these large images, for example, compression and decompression at the user's end.
In this connection, the issues of how much one is willing to lose in the compression process and what image quality one needs in the first place are unknown.
But what is known is that compression entails some loss of data.
These issues of compression and decompression, BESSER argued, resembled those raised earlier concerning the design of different platforms.
Gauging the capabilities of potential users constitutes a primary goal.
In the latter category, for example, retrieval is tied directly to one's data, an intolerable situation in the long run on a networked system.
Finally, BESSER described a project of Jim Wallace at the Smithsonian Institution, who is mounting images in a extremely rudimentary way on the Compuserv and Genie networks and is preparing to mount them on America On Line.
Although the average user takes over thirty minutes to download these images (assuming a fairly fast modem), nevertheless, images have been downloaded 25,000 times. BESSER concluded his talk with several comments on the business arrangement between the Smithsonian and Compuserv.
LESK had heard that National Geographic, for example, had tried to buy the right to use some image in some kind of educational production for $100 per image, but the photographers will not touch it.
They want accounting and payment for each use, which cannot be accomplished within the system.
BESSER urged the launching of a study to determine what users would tolerate, what they would feel comfortable with, and what absolutely is the highest quality they would ever need.
He noted the difficulty of anticipating the effects of orders-of-magnitude growth, reflecting on the twenty years of experience with the Arpanet and Internet.
To illustrate the issue of scalability, LARSEN considered computer networks as including three generic components: computers, network communication nodes, and communication media.
This growth has been sustained largely by the availability of three basic functions: electronic mail, file transfer (ftp), and remote log-on (telnet).
LARSEN also reviewed the growth in the kind of traffic that occurs on the network.
Network traffic reflects the joint contributions of a larger population of users and increasing use per user.
Today one sees serious applications involving moving images across the network--a rarity ten years ago.
LARSEN recalled and concurred with BESSER's main point that the interesting problems occur at the application level. LARSEN then illustrated a model of a library's roles and functions in a network environment.
Implementation of the Z39.50 protocol for information retrieval would make such access practical and feasible.
For example, this would enable patrons in Maryland to search California libraries, or other libraries around the world that are conformant with Z39.50 in a manner that is familiar to University of Maryland patrons.
He went on to address the bandwidth and synchronization problems inherent in sending full-motion video across the network. LARSEN illustrated the trade-off between volumes of data in bytes or orders of magnitude and the potential usage of that data.
He discussed transmission rates (particularly, the time it takes to move various forms of information), and what one could do with a network supporting multigigabit-per-second transmission.
At the moment, the network environment includes a composite of data-transmission requirements, volumes and forms, going from steady to bursty (high-volume) and from very slow to very fast.
In short, the project needed to build a network, which at that time entailed use of satellite technology, that is, putting earth stations on campus and also acquiring some terrestrial links from the State of California's microwave system.
The solution involved adopting a recent development in wireless communication called packet radio, which combined the basic notion of packet-switching with radio.
Since then much had changed.
Those units have been built, he continued, and are in the process of being type-certified by an independent underwriting laboratory so that they can be type-licensed by the Federal Communications Commission.
BROWNRIGG presented several details of a demonstration project currently taking place in San Diego and described plans, pending funding, to install a full-bore network in the San Francisco area.
They are well above standard microwave and radar.
With a radio wave that small, one watt becomes a tremendous punch per bit and thus makes transmission at reasonable speed possible.
In order to minimize the potential for congestion, the project is undertaking to reimplement software which has been available in the networking business and is taken for granted now, for example, TCP/IP, routing algorithms, bridges, and gateways.
In addition, the project plans to take the WAIS server software in the public domain and reimplement it so that one can have a WAIS server on a Mac instead of a Unix machine.
The Memex Research Institute believes that libraries, in particular, will want to use the WAIS servers with packet radio.
This project, which has a team of about twelve people, will run through 1993 and will include the 100 libraries already mentioned as well as other professionals such as those in the medical profession, engineering, and law.
The slow speed is operating at 435 megahertz, and it would later go up to 920 megahertz.
KENNEY recounted several publishing challenges to represent faithful and legible reproductions of the originals that the 600-dpi copy for the most part successfully captured.
KENNEY also pointed out that CXP investigated the quality achieved with binary scanning only, and noted the great promise in gray scale and color scanning, whose advantages and disadvantages need to be examined.
She argued further that scanning resolutions and file formats can represent a complex trade-off between the time it takes to capture material, file size, fidelity to the original, and on-screen display; and printing and equipment availability.
All these factors must be taken into consideration. CXP placed primary emphasis on the production in a timely and cost-effective manner of printed facsimiles that consisted largely of black-and-white text.
CXP was getting compression ratios of about forty to one.
Gray-scale compression, which primarily uses JPEG, is much less economical and can represent a lossy compression (i.e., not lossless), so that as one compresses and decompresses, the illustration is subtly changed.
While binary files produce a high-quality printed version, it appears 1) that other combinations of spatial resolution with gray and/or color hold great promise as well, and 2) that gray scale can represent a tremendous advantage for on-screen viewing.
Moreover, they are based on definition of quality for a preservation copy.
If a brittle-book program included the means of disseminating reprints of books that are in demand by libraries and researchers alike, the initial investment in capture could be recovered and used to preserve additional but less popular books.
Each of these products contained the full ASCII text as well as page images of the material, or between 4,000 and 6,000 pages of material on these disks.
At this point, the pilot project had been completed for about a year and the final report would be available shortly after the Workshop.
The next step is to capture the page images. How long this process takes is determined by the decision whether or not to perform OCR.
NATDP usually scans one record at a time, because its database tracking system tracks the document in that way and does not require further logical separating of the images.
After performing optical character recognition, NATDP moves the images off the hard disk and maintains a volume sheet.
Many scanners allow for different image formats, TIFF, of course, being a de facto standard.
For instance, scanning bound books, particularly books published by the federal government whose pages are skewed, and trying to scan them straight if OCR is to be performed, is extremely time-consuming.
These resulted in approximately 3,500 images, which NATDP had had scanned by its service contractor, Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC).
The bleeding in the text simply output text, when OCR was run, that could not even be edited.
The frame size varied on account of the nature of the material, and therefore some of the frames were missed while others were just partial frames.
The only way to go back and capture this material was to print out the page with the microfilm reader from the missing frame and then scan it in from the page, which was extremely time-consuming.
The quality of the images scanned from the printout of the microfilm compared unfavorably with that of the original images captured directly from the microfilm.
The inability to perform OCR also was a major disappointment.
At the time, computer output microfilm was unavailable to test. The equipment used for a scanning system was the last topic addressed by ZIDAR.
In addition to a stand-alone scanning workstation for image capture, then, text capture requires one or two editing stations networked to this scanning station to perform editing.
Electronic tools must find a place in the library in the context of this vision.
Though related to CXP, POB has two features which distinguish it: 1) scale--conversion of 10,000 volumes into digital image form; and 2) source--conversion from microfilm.
Given these features, several key working hypotheses guide POB, including: 1) Since POB is using microfilm, it is not concerned with the image library as a preservation medium.
2) Digital imagery can improve access to recorded knowledge through printing and network distribution at a modest incremental cost of microfilm.
The terms were that POB would pay the loser.
The size and internal complexity of the company also was an important factor.
POB was looking at large companies that had substantial resources.
In the end, the process generated for Yale two competitive proposals, with Xerox's the clear winner.
Assuming TIFF files, TIFF files with Group 4 compression, TCP/IP, and ethernet network on campus, POB wanted a client-server approach with image documents distributed to the workstations and made accessible through native workstation interfaces such as Windows.
Other start-up costs are estimated at $1 million over the three phases.
Preservation materials are useful for developing that market because of the qualities of the material.
For example, much of it is out of copyright.
The resolution of key issues such as the quality of scanning and image browsing also will affect development of that market. The technology is readily available but changing rapidly.
In this context of rapid change, several factors affect quality and cost, to which POB intends to pay particular attention, for example, the various levels of resolution that can be achieved.
POB believes it can bring resolution up to 600 dpi, but an interpolation process from 400 to 600 is more likely.
The variation quality in microfilm will prove to be a highly important factor.
POB's requirement was to be able to deal with quality control at the point of scanning.
POB is ready to complete this phase now.
Re text conversion, he noted the different recognition rates obtained by substituting the make and model of scanners in NARA's recent test of an "intelligent" character-recognition product for a new company.
HOOTON agreed and commented at the same time on ZIDAR's statement that the equipment employed affects the results produced.
Most of the problems discussed today have been solved in numerous different ways by other people.
This is for scanning from bound books, which is much slower. * WATERS commented on window management questions: DEC proposed an X-Windows solution which was problematical for two reasons.
He introduced the topic of special problems by noting the advantages of electronic imaging.
In the case of documents, THOMA said, image quality boils down to legibility of the textual parts, and fidelity in the case of gray or color photo print-type material.
Legibility boils down to scan density, the standard in most cases being 300 dpi.
Thus, THOMA proceeded to illustrate various deficiencies, how they are manifested, and several techniques to overcome them. Fixed thresholding was the first technique described, suitable for black-and-white text, when the contrast does not vary over the page.
One can have many different threshold levels in scanning devices.
Thus, THOMA offered an example of extremely poor contrast, which resulted from the fact that the stock was a heavy red.
This is the sort of image that when microfilmed fails to provide any legibility whatsoever.
Fixed thresholding is the way to change the black-to-red contrast to the desired black-to-white contrast. Other examples included material that had been browned or yellowed by age.
This was also a case of contrast deficiency, and correction was done by fixed thresholding.
A final example boils down to the same thing, slight variability, but it is not significant.
Fixed thresholding solves this problem as well.
The microfilm equivalent is certainly legible, but it comes with dark areas.
One scheme, dynamic averaging, allows the threshold level not to be fixed but to be recomputed for every pixel from the neighboring characteristics.
But dithering does not provide good image quality for pure black-and-white textual material.
THOMA illustrated this point with examples.
Although its suitability for photoprint is the reason for electronic screening or dithering, it cannot be used for every compound image.
In the document that was distributed by CXP, THOMA noticed that the dithered image of the IEEE test chart evinced some deterioration in the text.
He presented an extreme example of deterioration in the text in which compounded documents had to be set right by other techniques.
Dithering provided a reproduction of all the gray in the original of another example from the same text. THOMA finally illustrated the problem of bordering, or page-edge, effects.
Very few devices in the industry offer book-edge scanning, let alone book cradles. The problem may be unsolvable, FLEISCHHAUER said, because a large enough market does not exist for a preservation-quality scanner.
But it tends to defeat efficient compression, because the very thing that dithers to reduce moire patterns also tends to work against compression schemes.
Another approach would be to provide a large body of intellectually coherent material that may be used more in digital form than it is currently used in microfilm.
Today the association maintains both its library and business-image management standardization activities--and has moved into electronic image-management standardization (EIM). BARONAS defined the program's scope.
Recommended practices differ from standards in that they contain more tutorial information.
A technical report is not an ANSI standard.
Because AIIM's policies and procedures for developing standards are approved by ANSI, its standards are labeled ANSI/AIIM, followed by the number and title of the standard. BARONAS then illustrated the domain of AIIM's standardization work.
For example, AIIM is the administrator of the U.S.
Technical Advisory Group (TAG) to the International Standards Organization's (ISO) technical committee, TC l7l Micrographics and Optical Memories for Document and Image Recording, Storage, and Use.
When AIIM's national program has conceptualized a new project, it is usually submitted to the international level, so that the member countries of TC l7l can simultaneously work on the development of the standard or the technical report.
BARONAS also illustrated a classic microfilm standard, MS23, which deals with numerous imaging concepts that apply to electronic imaging.
Originally developed in the l970s, revised in the l980s, and revised again in l991, this standard is scheduled for another revision.
Standards are essential to facilitate interconnectivity and access, but, BATTIN said, as LYNCH pointed out yesterday, if set too soon they can hinder creativity, expansion of capability, and the broadening of access.
The characteristics of standards for digital imagery differ radically from those for analog imagery.
And the nature of digital technology implies continuing volatility and change.
In the past, the naive assumption that paper would last forever produced a cavalier attitude toward life cycles.
Preserving information published in electronic media involves making sure the information remains accessible and that digital information is not lost through reproduction.
Scholars wish to know what the author saw and worked from.
And make available at the workstation the opportunity to erase all the defects and enhance the presentation.
2) The fidelity of reproduction--what is good enough, what can we afford, and the difference it makes--issues of subjective versus objective resolution.
3) The differences between primary and secondary users.
4) The relationship of the standard of reproduction to new capabilities of scholarship--the browsing standard versus an archival standard.
How good must the archival standard be?
Can a distinction be drawn between potential users in setting standards for reproduction? Archival storage, use copies, browsing copies--ought an attempt to set standards even be made?
How much are we prepared to pay to capture absolute fidelity?
What are the trade-offs between vastly enhanced access, degrees of fidelity, and costs? These standards, BATTIN concluded, serve to complicate further the reproduction process, and add to the long list of technical standards that are necessary to ensure widespread access.
TIFF is a company product, not a standard, is owned by two corporations, and is always changing.
Many people now realize that it enhances their system to be able to have more and more character data as part of their imaging system.
Re the issue of OCR versus rekeying, HOOTON posed several questions: How does one get text into computer-readable form?
He mentioned outsourcing as a possibility for converting text.
Approximately a quarter of the pages by square inch are made up of images of quasi-pictorial material; dealing with the graphic components of the pages is extremely important.
A third of them received the paper journals, the traditional paper copies and chemical abstracts on paper.
A third received image displays of the pictures of the pages, and a third received the text display with pop-up graphics. The students were given several questions made up by some chemistry professors.
The questions fell into five classes, ranging from very easy to very difficult, and included questions designed to simulate browsing as well as a traditional information retrieval-type task. LESK furnished the following results.
In the straightforward question search--the question being, what is the phosphorus oxygen bond distance and hydroxy phosphate?--the students were told that they could take fifteen minutes and, then, if they wished, give up.
The students with paper took more than fifteen minutes on average, and yet most of them gave up.
The average scores were about the same. (The students were told to answer yes or no about whether or not particular topics appeared.) The errors, however, were quite different.
The students with paper rarely said that something appeared when it had not.
But they often failed to find something actually mentioned in the issue.
The computer people found numerous things, but they also frequently said that a topic was mentioned when it was not. (The reason, of course, was that they were performing word searches.
This was an attempt to see if they performed better at remembering what they were not looking for.
They all performed about the same, paper or electronics, about 62 percent accurate.
Many students found the right article containing the answer to the question, but they did not click on the icon to bring up the right figure and see it.
On the other hand, the text display system, which represented twenty man-years of work in programming and polishing, was not winning, because the text was not being read, just searched.
Because of the variety of formats and types of texts, to capitalize the equipment and have the talents and skills to operate them at LC would be extremely expensive.
Further, the natural inclination to upgrade to newer and better equipment each year made it reasonable for AM to focus on what it did best and seek external conversion services.
Using service bureaus also allowed AM to have several types of operations take place at the same time.
2) AM was not a technology project, but an effort to improve access to library collections.
On none of these samples was OCR performed; they were all rekeyed.
AM had several special requirements for the three service bureaus it had engaged.
For instance, any errors in the original text were to be retained.
Working from bound volumes or anything that could not be sheet-fed also constituted a factor eliminating companies that would have performed OCR. AM requires 99.95 percent accuracy, which, though it sounds high, often means one or two errors per page.
The initial batch of test samples contained several handwritten materials for which AM did not require text-coding.
The results, ERWAY reported, were in all cases fairly comparable: for the most part, all three service bureaus achieved 99.95 percent accuracy.
AM was satisfied with the work but surprised at the cost. As AM began converting whole collections, it retained the requirement for 99.95 percent accuracy and added requirements for text-coding.
AM needed to begin performing work more than three years ago before LC requirements for SGML applications had been established.
Since AM's goal was simply to retain any of the intellectual content represented by the formatting of the document (which would be lost if one performed a straight ASCII conversion), AM used "SGML-like" codes.
These codes resembled SGML tags but were used without the benefit of document-type definitions.
While non-English speakers are less likely to guess or elaborate or correct typos in the original text, they are also less able to infer what we would; they also are nearly incapable of converting handwritten text.
Many service bureaus are not accustomed to retaining the image, even if they perform OCR.
Thus, questions of image format and storage media were somewhat novel to many of them.
AM has been attempting to perform a 10-percent quality review, looking at either every tenth document or every tenth page to make certain that the service bureaus are maintaining 99.95 percent accuracy.
But even if they are complying with the requirement for accuracy, finding errors produces a desire to correct them and, in turn, to clean up the whole collection, which defeats the purpose to some extent.
Even a double entry requires a character-by-character comparison to the original to meet the accuracy requirement.
2) Some material simply requires word-level access.
For instance, the legal profession insists on full-text access to its material; with taxonomic or geographic material, which entails numerous names, one virtually requires word-level access.
3) Full text permits rapid browsing and searching, something that cannot be achieved in an image with today's technology. 4) Text stored as ASCII and delivered in ASCII is standardized and highly portable.
5) People just want full-text searching, even those who do not know how to do it.
NAL, for the most part, is performing OCR at an actual cost per average-size page of approximately $7.
Confusion among the three characters I, 1, and l, constitutes perhaps the most common problem encountered.
Zeroes and O's also are frequently confused.
Double M's create a particular problem, even on clean pages.
They are so wide in most fonts that they touch, and the system simply cannot tell where one letter ends and the other begins.
Complex page formats occasionally fail to columnate properly, which entails rescanning as though one were working with a single column, entering the ASCII, and decolumnating for better searching.
NAL has also experimented with partial editing of text, whereby project workers go into and clean up the format, removing stray characters but not running a spell-check.
NAL corrects typos in the title and authors' names, which provides a foothold for searching and browsing.
Even extremely poor-quality OCR (e.g., 60-percent accuracy) can still be searched, because numerous words are correct, while the important words are probably repeated often enough that they are likely to be found correct somewhere.
Librarians, however, cannot tolerate this situation, though end users seem more willing to use this text for searching, provided that NAL indicates that it is unedited.
For example, in regard to an application containing a significant amount of redundant data, such as form-type data, numerous companies today are working on various kinds of form renewal, prior to going through a recognition process, by using dropout colors.
Thus, acquiring access to form design or using electronic means are worth considering.
HOOTON also noted that conversion usually makes or breaks one's imaging system.
The project undertaken by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) cost approximately $10 per page for the conversion, plus some expenses for the software and building of the database.
The in-house project offered considerable ease of convenience and greater control of the process.
Requirements for coding and imaging increase the costs.
The prisoners performed AM's rekeying just as well as other service bureaus and proved handy as well.
AM shipped them the books, which they would photocopy on a book-edge scanner.
Most significant is the editing, correction of errors, and spell-checkings, which though they may sound easy to perform require, in fact, a great deal of time.
Reformatting text also takes a while, but a significant amount of NAL's expenses are for equipment, which was extremely expensive when purchased because it was one of the few systems on the market.
She wondered if the speakers could extend the previous question about the cost-benefit of adding or exerting structured markup.
ERWAY noted that several OCR systems retain italics, bolding, and other spatial formatting.
HOCKEY rejoined that the current thinking on markup is that one should not say that something is italic or bold so much as why it is that way.
To be sure, one needs to know that something was italicized, but how can one get from one to the other?
STEVENS drew a useful distinction between standard, generalized markup (i.e., defining for a document-type definition the structure of the document), and what he termed a style sheet, which had to do with italics, bolding, and other forms of emphasis.
Thus, two different components are at work, one being the structure of the document itself (its logic), and the other being its representation when it is put on the screen or printed. ****** SESSION V.
It would be argued that one can do much more than just read a text, and from that starting point one can use markup and methods of preparing the text to take full advantage of the capability of the computer.
He argued that the electronic world into which we are moving must accommodate not only the future but the past as well, and to some degree even the present.
The CORE project hosted by Cornell University, Bellcore, OCLC, the American Chemical Society, and Chemical Abstracts, constitutes WEIBEL's principal concern at the moment.
He denied the existence of intelligent character recognition and asserted that what is wanted is page recognition, which is a long way off.
It will never be perfect. Concerning the CORE Project, WEIBEL observed that Bellcore is taking the topography files, extracting the page images, and converting those topography files to SGML markup.
WEIBEL strongly advocated descriptive markup.
As an example, he illustrated the index structure in the CORE data.
With subsequent illustrated examples of markup, WEIBEL acknowledged the common complaint that SGML is hard to read in its native form, although markup decreases considerably once one gets into the body.
Without the markup, however, one would not have the structure in the data.
He demonstrated how to follow links through the electronic database simply by selecting the appropriate button and bringing them up.
Since it is extremely expensive to reconvert all of this data, especially if it is just in paper form (and even if it is in electronic form in typesetting tapes), he advocated building journals electronically from the start.
These pages can be put in approximately 135 gigabytes of storage, which is not all that much, WEIBEL said.
For twenty years, something less than three terabytes would be required.
WEIBEL calculated the costs of storing this information as follows: If a gigabyte costs approximately $1,000, then a terabyte costs approximately $1 million to buy in terms of hardware.
The tapes saved by the American Chemical Society are the typography files that originally supported the publication of the journal.
Although they are not tagged in SGML, they are tagged in very fine detail.
Every single sentence is marked, all the registry numbers, all the publications issues, dates, and volumes.
No cost figures on tagging material on a per-megabyte basis were available.
Because ACS's typesetting system runs from tagged text, there is no extra cost per article.
It was unknown what it costs ACS to keyboard the tagged text rather than just keyboard the text in the cheapest process.
2) No text can be represented in a computer without some sort of encoding; images are one way of encoding text, ASCII is another, SGML yet another.
There is no encoding without some information loss, that is, there is no perfect reproduction of a text that allows one to do away with the original.
It needs to be stored, therefore, as part of one's representation of the text.
Thus, one needs to store the structure in the text.
He argued that these grammars correspond to different models of text that different developers have.
For example, one implicit model of the text is that there is no internal structure, but just one thing after another, a few characters and then perhaps a start-title command, and then a few more characters and an end-title command.
But he was not convinced that electronic images represent a serious attempt to represent text in electronic form.
It is sponsored by the Association for Computers in the Humanities, the Association for Computational Linguistics, and the Association for Literary and Linguistic Computing.
Representatives of numerous other professional societies sit on its advisory board.
In 1990, version 1.0 of the Guidelines was released (SPERBERG-McQUEEN illustrated their contents). SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that one problem besetting electronic text has been the lack of adequate internal or external documentation for many existing electronic texts.
What one needs to be able to reproduce are the things one wants to work with.
Perhaps a more useful concept than that of reproducibility or recoverability is that of processability, that is, what can one get from an electronic text without reading it again in the original.
It is a choice that has been made.
It is an arguably justifiable choice, but one does not know what color those pen strokes in the margin are or whether there was a stain on the page, because it has been filtered out.
It has relevance far beyond those who spend all of their time studying text, because one's model of text determines what one's software can do with a text.
Good models lead to good software.
Bad models lead to bad software.
The notation that the graphics are in is clearly a choice that one needs to make based on her or his environment, and that is one advantage.
SGML is less megalomaniacal in attempting to define formats for all kinds of information, though more megalomaniacal in attempting to cover all sorts of documents.
The other advantage is that the model of text represented by SGML is simply an order of magnitude richer and more flexible than the model of text offered by ODA.
The TEI can handle the kind of material ODA has, as well as a significantly broader range of material.
Finding the specialist to advise in this process is the core of that function.
The publisher must monitor and hug the fine line between giving users what they want and suggesting what they might need.
In the same way that Migne's work came to be far more than a simple handbook for clerics, PLD is already far more than a database for theologians.
Thus, the general decision to transmit the original collection as clearly as possible with the widest possible avenues for use led to other decisions: 1) To encode the data or not, SGML or not, TEI or not.
Again, the expected user community asserted the need for normative tagging structures of important humanities texts, and the TEI seemed the most appropriate structure for that purpose.
Research librarians, who are trained to view the larger impact of electronic text sources on 80 or 90 or 100 doctoral disciplines, loudly approved the decision to include tagging.
They see what is coming better than the specialist who is completely focused on one edition of Ambrose's De Anima, and they also understand that the potential uses exceed present expectations.
2) What will be tagged and what will not.
Once again, the board realized that one must tag the obvious.
But in no way should one attempt to identify through encoding schemes every single discrete area of a text that might someday be searched.
Searching by a column number, an author, a word, a volume, permitting combination searches, and tagging notations seemed logical choices as core elements.
3) How does one make the data available?
Since no one on the board could possibly anticipate each and every way in which a scholar might choose to mine this data bank, it was decided to satisfy the basics and make some provisions for what might come.
4) Not to encode the database would rob it of the interchangeability and portability these important texts should accommodate.
For CALALUCA, the extensive options presented by full-text searching require care in text selection and strongly support encoding of data to facilitate the widest possible search strategies.
In the future, when many more texts are available for on-line searching, real problems in finding what is wanted will develop, if one is faced with millions of words of data.
It therefore becomes important to consider putting markup in texts to help searchers home in on the actual things they wish to retrieve.
In order to incorporate more sophisticated mechanisms, more about how words behave needs to be known, which can be learned in part from information in dictionaries.
However, the last ten years have seen much interest in studying the structure of printed dictionaries converted into computer-readable form.
The information one derives about many words from those is only partial, one or two definitions of the common or the usual meaning of a word, and then numerous definitions of unusual usages.
If the computer is using a dictionary to help retrieve words in a text, it needs much more information about the common usages, because those are the ones that occur over and over again.
Hence the current interest in developing large bodies of text in computer-readable form in order to study the language.
Several projects are engaged in compiling, for example, 100 million words.
Hence, the more tagging or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.
Particular concerns of the affiliated projects have led, in practice, to discussions of how extensions are to be made; the primary concern of any project has to be how it can be represented locally, thus making interchange secondary.
Hence, having a well-behaved markup scheme is important. STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same except that they are different.
Thus, numerous people are seeking a standard but cannot find the tag set that will be acceptable to them and their clients.
Nevertheless, not wishing to overemphasize the opposition between imaging and full text, WATERS stated that POB views getting the images as a first step toward possibly converting to full text through character recognition, if the technology is appropriate.
WATERS also emphasized that encoding is involved even with a set of images. SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document consisting wholly of images.
WEIBEL concurred in this judgment, offering evidence from Project ADAPT, where a page is divided into text elements and graphic elements, and in fact the text elements are organized by columns and lines.
These lines may be used as the basis for distributing documents in a network environment.
They have some recommendations about DTDs one could use as examples, but they do just suggest tag sets.
He stressed the importance of the opposition between prescriptive markup, the kind that a publisher or anybody can do when producing documents de novo, and descriptive markup, in which one has to take what the text carrier provides.
In these particular tag sets it is easy to overemphasize this opposition, because the AAP tag set is extremely flexible.
Even if one just used the DTDs, they allow almost anything to appear almost anywhere. ****** SESSION VI.
Re foreign laws, very frequently a work can be in the public domain in the United States but protected in other countries.
The United States has never accepted the notion of the natural right of an author so much as it has accepted the notion of the public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it.
The standard for gaining copyright protection is simply originality.
This is a low standard and means that a work is not copied from something else, as well as shows a certain minimal amount of authorship.
One can also acquire copyright protection for making a new version of preexisting material, provided it manifests some spark of creativity. However, copyright does not protect ideas, methods, systems--only the way that one expresses those things.
Nor does copyright protect anything that is mechanical, anything that does not involve choice, or criteria concerning whether or not one should do a thing.
For example, the results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.
On the other hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion that are copyrightable.
Moreover, if a work is protected by copyright in the United States, one generally needs the permission of the copyright owner to convert it.
Normally, who will own the new--that is, converted- -material is a matter of contract.
In the absence of a contract, the person who creates the new material is the author and owner.
But people do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the fact.
PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to think about copyright in advance.
The issue is not wholly free of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain outside the United States.
Other materials in the public domain include: any works published more than seventy-five years ago, and any work published in the United States more than twenty-eight years ago, whose copyright was not renewed.
Simply, economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in any form.
They belong to the author, or in the case of a work made for hire, the employer.
The second right, which is critical to conversion, is the right to change a work.
The right to make new versions is perhaps one of the most significant rights of authors, particularly in an electronic world.
The third right is the right to publish the work and the right to disseminate it, something that everyone who deals in an electronic medium needs to know.
The basic rule is if a copy is sold, all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy. The key is that it must be sold.
A number of companies overcome this obstacle by leasing or renting their product.
These companies argue that if the material is rented or leased and not sold, they control the uses of a work.
The fourth right, and one very important in a digital world, is a right of public performance, which means the right to show the work sequentially.
For example, copyright owners control the showing of a CD-ROM product in a public place such as a public library.
The reverse side of public performance is something called the right of public display.
Moral rights also exist, which at the federal level apply only to very limited visual works of art, but in theory may apply under contract and other principles.
But the law does not allow anyone to become the distributor of the product for the entire world.
In today's electronic environment, publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a single library.
Hence, if there is to be only one sale, which publishers may choose to live with, they will obtain their money in other ways, for example, from access and use.
Hence, the development of site licenses and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they should be compensated for.
A compulsory license, of which the United States has had a few, builds into the law the right to use a work subject to certain terms and conditions.
In the international arena, however, the ability to use compulsory licenses is extremely limited. Thus, clearinghouses and other collectives comprise one option that has succeeded in providing for use of a work.
Often overlooked when one begins to use copyrighted material and put products together is how expensive the permissions process and managing it is.
According to PETERS, the price of copyright in a digital medium, whatever solution is worked out, will include managing and assembling the database.
In the event that what an individual did in developing potentially copyrightable material is not understood, the Copyright Office will ask about the creative choices the applicant chose to make or not to make.
As a practical matter, if one believes she or he has made enough of those choices, that person has a right to assert a copyright and someone else must assert that the work is not copyrightable.
Thus, a photographic copyright represents what is called a "thin" copyright.
The photograph itself must be duplicated, in order for copyright to be violated. * The Copyright Office takes the position that X-rays are not copyrightable because they are mechanical.
It can be argued whether or not image enhancement in scanning can be protected.
One must exercise care with material created with public funds and generally in the public domain.
An article written by a federal employee, if written as part of official duties, is not copyrightable.
However, control over a scientific article written by a National Institutes of Health grantee (i.e., someone who receives money from the U.S. government), depends on NIH policy.
If the government agency has no policy (and that policy can be contained in its regulations, the contract, or the grant), the author retains copyright.
If a provision of the contract, grant, or regulation states that there will be no copyright, then it does not exist.
For example, Congress recently passed into law the concept of automatic renewal, which means that copyright on any work published between l964 and l978 does not have to be renewed in order to receive a seventy-five-year term.
The World Intellectual Property Organization will hold a symposium 28 March through 2 April l993, at Harvard University, on digital technology, and will study this entire issue.
Of course, people ought not to copy a creative product without paying for it; there should be some compensation.
The author receives absolutely everything.
The less prominent the author, the more leverage the publisher will have in contract negotiations.
In order to transfer the rights, the author must sign an agreement giving them away. In an electronic society, it is important to be able to license a writer and work out deals.
With regard to use of a work, it usually is much easier when a publisher holds the rights.
In an electronic era, a real problem arises when one is digitizing and making information available. PETERS referred again to electronic licensing clearinghouses.
If changes are authorized and there is no agreement to the contrary, the person who changes a work owns the changes.
To put it another way, the person who acquires permission to change a work technically will become the author and the owner, unless some agreement to the contrary has been made.
It is typical for the original publisher to try to control all of the versions and all of the uses.
Copyright law always only sets up the boundaries.
Anything can be changed by contract. ****** SESSION VII.
And, if so, what are they and who might take them?
2) Partly derivative from that, but obviously very dangerous to LC as host, do you see a role for the Library of Congress in all this?
In other words, the new networking dimension, the accessibility of the processability, the portability of all this across the networks.
In the absence of PETERS, GIFFORD replied that the question was being actively considered but that that was only one dimension of the problem. Another dimension is the whole question of the integrity of the original electronic document.
It becomes highly important in science to prove authorship.
As a temporary measure, LC has claimed the right to demand electronic versions of electronic publications.
This measure entails a proactive role for the Library to say that it wants a particular electronic version.
Publishers then have perhaps a year to submit it.
But the real problem for LC is what to do with all this material in all these different formats.
Will the Library mount it?
How will it give people access to it?
How does LC keep track of the appropriate computers, software, and media?
The situation is so hard to control, ERWAY said, that it makes sense for each publishing house to maintain its own archive.
But LC cannot enforce that either. GIFFORD acknowledged LESK's suggestion that establishing a priority offered the solution, albeit a fairly complicated one.
But who maintains that register?, he asked.
GRABER noted that LC does attempt to collect a Macintosh version and the IBM-compatible version of software.
It does not collect other versions.
But while true for software, BYRUM observed, this reply does not speak to materials, that is, all the materials that were published that were on somebody's microcomputer or driver tapes at a publishing office across the country.
LC does well to acquire specific machine-readable products selectively that were intended to be machine-readable.
Materials that were in machine-readable form at one time, BYRUM said, would be beyond LC's capability at the moment, insofar as attempting to acquire, organize, and preserve them are concerned--and preservation would be the most important consideration.
Presumably, LC will link this material somehow to its on-line catalog in most cases.
Thus, it is in a digital form.
LYNCH had the impression that many of these institutions would be willing to make those files accessible to other people outside the institution, provided that there is no copyright problem.
This desideratum will require propagating the knowledge that those digitized files exist, so that they can end up in other on-line catalogs.
Although uncertain about the mechanism for achieving this result, LYNCH said that it warranted scrutiny because it seemed to be connected to some of the basic issues of cataloging and distribution of records.
It would be foolish, given the amount of work that all of us have to do and our meager resources, to discover multiple institutions digitizing the same work.
Re microforms, LYNCH said, we are in pretty good shape. BATTIN called this a big problem and noted that the Cornell people (who had already departed) were working on it.
At issue from the beginning was to learn how to catalog that information into RLIN and then into OCLC, so that it would be accessible.
That issue remains to be resolved. LYNCH rejoined that putting it into OCLC or RLIN was helpful insofar as somebody who is thinking of performing preservation activity on that work could learn about it.
It is not necessarily helpful for institutions to make that available.
BATTIN opined that the idea was that it not only be for preservation purposes but for the convenience of people looking for this material.
She endorsed LYNCH's dictum that duplication of this effort was to be avoided by every means. HOCKEY informed the Workshop about one major current activity of CETH, namely a catalogue of machine-readable texts in the humanities.
Held on RLIN at present, the catalogue has been concentrated on ASCII as opposed to digitized images of text.
She is exploring ways to improve the catalogue and make it more widely available, and welcomed suggestions about these concerns.
Of course that could not be accomplished overnight, but it would be something LC could plan for.
Perhaps LC's new on-line catalogue is an amalgamation of all these catalogues on line.
LYNCH conceded that perhaps that was true in the very long term, but was not applicable to scanning in the short term.
The fact that someone has created something electronically and keeps it under his or her control does not constitute publication.
While it would be important for a scholar to let other people know that this creation exists, in many respects this is no different from an unpublished manuscript.
That is what is being accessed in there, except that now one is not looking at it in the hard-copy but in the electronic environment. LEBRON expressed puzzlement at the variety of ways electronic publishing has been viewed.
Taking up the comment ERWAY made earlier about storing copies, LEBRON gave her own journal as an example.
How would she deposit OJCCT for copyright?, she asked, because the journal will exist in the mainframe at OCLC and people will be able to access it.
Here the situation is different, ownership versus access, and is something that arises with publication in the on-line environment, faster than is sometimes realized.
GREENFIELD also noted that Rebecca GUENTHER from that office gave a paper to the American Society for Information Science (ASIS) summarizing several of the discussion papers that were coming out of the Network Development Office.
GREENFIELD said he understood that that office had a list-server soliciting just the kind of feedback received today concerning the difficulties of identifying and cataloguing electronic information.
This would mean eventually accepting electronic formats.
LC could require that at some point they be in a certain limited set of formats, and then develop mechanisms for allowing people to access those in the same way that other things are accessed.
This does not imply that they are on the network and available to everyone. LC does that with most of its bibliographic records, BESSER said, which end up migrating to the utility (e.g., OCLC) or somewhere else.
But just as most of LC's books are available in some form through interlibrary loan or some other mechanism, so in the same way electronic formats ought to be available to others in some format, though with some copyright considerations.
A certain skittishness concerning cost-recovery has made people unsure exactly what to do.
He wondered if a similar movement was taking place in the humanities.
MYLONAS conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
MYLONAS framed the issues in a series of questions: How do we acquire machine-readable text?
Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?
Is it important to obtain very high-quality images and text, etc.? FLEISCHHAUER agreed with MYLONAS's framing of strategic questions, adding that a large institution such as LC probably has to do all of those things at different times.
Thus, the trick is to exercise judgment.
The Workshop had added to his and AM's considerations in making those judgments.
In the case of Perseus, MYLONAS said, the assumption was that the texts would not be entered again into electronically readable form.
Veccia, Team Leader, American Memory, User Evaluation, and Joanne Freeman, Associate Coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress (Beyond the scholar) 10:30- 11:00 AM Break 11:00 AM Session II.
Show and Tell. Each presentation to consist of a fifteen-minute statement/show; group discussion will follow lunch. Moderator: Jacqueline Hess, Director, National Demonstration Lab 1.
A classics project, stressing texts and text retrieval more than multimedia: Perseus Project, Harvard University Elli Mylonas, Managing Editor 2.
Other humanities projects employing the emerging norms of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI): Chadwyck-Healey's The English Poetry Full Text Database and/or Patrologia Latina Database Eric M.
Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc. 3.
American Memory Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, and Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, Library of Congress 4.
Founding Fathers example from Packard Humanities Institute: The Papers of George Washington, University of Virginia Dorothy Twohig, Managing Editor, and/or David Woodley Packard 5.
An electronic medical journal offering graphics and full-text searchability: The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials, American Association for the Advancement of Science Maria L.
A project that offers facsimile images of pages but omits searchable text: Cornell math books Lynne K.
Personius, Assistant Director, Cornell Information Technologies for Scholarly Information Sources, Cornell University 12:30 PM Lunch (Dining Room A, Library Madison 620.
Exhibits available.) 1:30 PM Session II.
Show and Tell (Cont'd.). 3:00- 3:30 PM Break 3:30- 5:30 PM Session III.
Distribution, Networks, and Networking: Options for Dissemination. Published disks: University presses and public-sector publishers, private-sector publishers Computer networks Moderator: Robert G.
Zich, Special Assistant to the Associate Librarian for Special Projects, Library of Congress Clifford A.
Lynch, Director, Library Automation, University of California Howard Besser, School of Library and Information Science, University of Pittsburgh Ronald L.
Larsen, Associate Director of Libraries for Information Technology, University of Maryland at College Park Edwin B.
Brownrigg, Executive Director, Memex Research Institute 6:30 PM Reception (Montpelier Room, Library Madison 619.) ****** Wednesday, 10 June 1992 DINING ROOM A, LIBRARY MADISON 620 8:30 AM Coffee and Danish 9:00 AM Session IV.
Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and Image Storage Formats. Moderator: William L.
Hooton, Vice President of Operations, I-NET A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text: Direct scanning Use of microform Anne R.
Kenney, Assistant Director, Department of Preservation and Conservation, Cornell University Pamela Q.J.
Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and Judith A.
Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL) Donald J.
Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL) 12:30- 1:30 PM Lunch 1:30 PM Session V.
Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc. 3:30- 4:00 PM Break 4:00 PM Session VI.
Copyright Issues. Marybeth Peters, Policy Planning Adviser to the Register of Copyrights, Library of Congress 5:00 PM Session VII.
Conclusion. General discussion. What topics were omitted or given short shrift that anyone would like to talk about now? Is there a "group" here?
What should the group do next, if anything?
In introducing the topic, current use of electronic texts is explored broadly within the context of scholarly communication.
These include the trends toward end-user computing and connectivity, which provide a framework for forecasting the use of electronic texts through this millennium.
AM consists of selected Library of Congress primary archival materials, stored on optical media (CD-ROM/videodisc), and presented with little or no editing.
Many collections are accompanied by electronic introductions and user's guides offering background information and historical context.
Collections represent a variety of formats including photographs, graphic arts, motion pictures, recorded sound, music, broadsides and manuscripts, books, and pamphlets. In 1991, the Library of Congress began a nationwide evaluation of AM in different types of institutions.
Test sites include public libraries, elementary and secondary school libraries, college and university libraries, state libraries, and special libraries.
Her comments on nonscholarly use of AM will focus on the public library as a cultural and community institution, often bridging the gap between formal and informal education.
FREEMAN will discuss the use of AM in school libraries.
Use by students and teachers has revealed some broad questions about the use of electronic resources, as well as definite benefits gained by the "nonscholar.
Perseus is designed to be used by a wide audience, comprised of readers at the student and scholar levels.
As such, it must be able to locate information using different strategies, and it must contain enough detail to serve the different needs of its users.
That way, it is possible to create the electronic data without thinking about the restrictions of the delivery system.
Neel Smith, "The Perseus Project: Data in the Electronic Age," in Accessing Antiquity: The Computerization of Classical Databases, J.
Worthen (eds.), University of Arizona Press, in press.] Much of the work on Perseus is focused on collecting and converting the data on which the project is based.
At the same time, it is necessary to provide means of access to the information, in order to make it usable, and them to investigate how it is used.
As we learn more about what students and scholars from different backgrounds do with Perseus, we can adjust our data collection, and also modify the system to accommodate them.
All text in Perseus is tagged using SGML, following the guidelines of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI).
This markup is used to index the text, and process it so that it can be imported into HyperCard.
The fact that the texts exist in SGML ensures that they will be relatively easy to port to different hardware and software, and so will outlast the current delivery platform.
Finally, the SGML markup incorporates existing canonical reference systems (chapter, verse, line, etc.); indexing and navigation are based on these features.
Because these tools were not designed for any one use, the same tools and the same data can be used by both students and scholars. NOTES: (5) Perseus is based at Harvard University, with collaborators at several other universities.
The project has been funded primarily by the Annenberg/CPB Project, as well as by Harvard University, Apple Computer, and others.
It is published by Yale University Press.
Editorial selection (or exclusion) of materials in each database 2.
Deciding whether or not to incorporate a normative encoding structure into the databases? A.
If one is selected, should it be SGML? B.
If SGML, then the TEI? 3.
Deliver as CD-ROM, magnetic tape, or both? 4.
Can one produce retrieval software advanced enough for the postdoctoral linguist, yet accessible enough for unattended general use?
Re fair and liberal networking policies, what are the risks to an electronic publisher? 6.
How does the emergence of national and international education networks affect the use and viability of research projects requiring high investment?
This electronic edition will supplement the published volumes, making the documents widely available to students and researchers at reasonable cost.
We estimate that our CD-ROM edition of Washington's Papers will be substantially completed within the next two years and ready for publication.
Within the next ten years or so, similar CD-ROM editions of the Franklin, Adams, Jefferson, and Madison papers also will be available.
The completed electronic edition will provide immense possibilities for the searching of documents for information in a way never possible before.
The kind of technical innovations that are currently available and on the drawing board will soon revolutionize historical research and the production of historical documents.
Unfortunately, much of this new technology is not being used in the planning stages of historical projects, simply because many historians are aware only in the vaguest way of its existence.
In fact, too many of us in history and literature are still at the stage of struggling with our PCs.
There are many historical editorial projects in progress presently, and an equal number of literary projects.
Most of these editions are being published in small quantities and the publishers' price for them puts them out of the reach not only of individual scholars but of most public libraries and all but the largest educational institutions.
This would provide an audience far beyond our present 1,000-copy, $45 published edition.
Topics of discussion will include historical overview, day-to-day management of the editorial peer review, and manuscript tagging and publication.
The project goes beyond that, however, to investigate some of the issues surrounding scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to digital images in a network environment. The Joint Study in Digital Preservation began in January 1990.
A prototype viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.
This will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up the digital library.
The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and (ultimately) printing functions with enhancements to facilitate navigation through multiple documents. Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to readers using workstations from their offices.
In addition, a display of original library books that have been digitized will be available for review with associated printed copies for comparison.
This will not require special software, although a powerful computer with good graphics will be needed. The Joint Study in Digital Preservation has generated a great deal of interest in the library community.
Unfortunately, or perhaps fortunately, this project serves to raise a vast number of other issues surrounding the use of digital technology for the preservation and use of deteriorating library materials, which subsequent projects will need to examine.
Much work remains. SESSION III Howard BESSER Networking Multimedia Databases What do we have to consider in building and distributing databases of visual materials in a multi-user environment?
The analog multimedia storage model (represented by Project Athena's parallel analog and digital networks) has required an incredibly complex (and expensive) infrastructure.
In the past the cost of such a large amount of storage space made this model a prohibitive choice as well.
But plunging storage costs are finally making this second alternative viable. If storage no longer poses such an impediment, what do we need to consider in building digitally stored multi-user databases of visual materials?
For instance, even on a 56 Kb line it would take three minutes to transfer a 1-megabyte file.
And these figures assume ideal circumstances, and do not take into consideration other users contending for network bandwidth, disk access time, or the time needed for remote display.
Current common telephone transmission rates would be completely impractical; few users would be willing to wait the hour necessary to transmit a single image at 2400 baud. This necessitates compression, which itself raises a number of other issues.
In order to decrease file sizes significantly, we must employ lossy compression algorithms.
But how much quality can we afford to lose?
To date there has been only one significant study done of image-quality needs for a particular user group, and this study did not look at loss resulting from compression.
For example, applications like Imagequery can incorporate compression, but current X implementations do not permit decompression at the end user's workstation.
Such decompression at the host computer alleviates storage capacity problems while doing nothing to address problems of telecommunications bandwidth. We need to examine the effects on network through-put of moving multimedia documents around on a network.
We need to examine various topologies that will help us avoid bottlenecks around servers and gateways.
Experience with applications such as these raise still broader questions.
How closely is the multimedia document tied to the software for viewing it?
Roughly speaking, each five-year period has yielded an order-of-magnitude improvement in price and performance of computing equipment.
No fundamental hurdles are likely to prevent this pace from continuing for at least the next decade.
This flood of capacity and use, likened by some to "drinking from a firehose," creates immense opportunities and challenges for libraries.
The emerging infrastructure is much more than computers and communication lines.
It is more than the ability to compute at a remote site, send electronic mail to a peer across the country, or move a file from one library to another.
Variations on this vision have included Ted Nelson's Xanadau, Alan Kay's Dynabook, and Lancaster's "paperless library," with the most recent incarnation being the "Knowledge Navigator" described by John Scully of Apple.
The program is working toward the creation of large, indexed publicly available electronic image collections of published documents in academic, special, and public libraries.
This combination of technology and information content is defined in this plan as an E-library or E-library collection.
Some participating sponsors are already developing projects based on MemRI's recommended directions. The E-library strategy projected in this plan is a visionary one that can enable major changes and improvements in academic, public, and special library service.
This vision is, though, one that can be realized with today's technology.
The continued expansion and rapid growth of local academic library collections is now clearly at an end.
Corporate libraries, and even law libraries, are faced with operating within a difficult economic climate, as well as with very active competition from commercial information sources.
On-line public access catalogs now serve millions of users on more than 50,000 dedicated terminals in the United States alone.
The University of California MELVYL on-line catalog system has now expanded into an index database reference service and supports more than six million searches a year.
Technicians used multiple threshold settings, filters, line art and halftone definitions, autosegmentation, windowing, and software-editing programs to optimize image capture.
At the same time, this project focused on production. The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.
Digital files were created as TIFF images which were compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.
The Xerox software is MS DOS based and utilizes off-the shelf programs such as Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.
The digital library is designed to be hardware-independent and to provide interchangeability with other institutions through network connections.
Since 1987, the Library has participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project (NATDP) a cooperative effort between NAL and forty-five land grant university libraries.
The type of equipment required for a stand-alone scanning workstation and the importance of file management software will be discussed.
The Yale Library has selected a major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems integrator.
In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the life of the project.
Pricing for the system implementation assumes the existence of Yale's campus ethernet network and its high-speed image printers, and includes other requisite hardware and software, as well as system integration services.
Following a request for proposal, the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project Open Book.
Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project.
The technology for scanning microfilm is readily available but is changing rapidly.
How does variation in the quality of microfilm, particularly in film produced to preservation standards, affect the quality of the digital images?
What technologies can an operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to separate two-up images and to control for and correct image imperfections?
How can quality control best be integrated into digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage? The actual and expected uses of digital images--storage, browsing, printing, and OCR--help determine the standards for measuring their quality.
Browsing is especially important, but the facilities available for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of imaging technology and most in need of development.
What conventions are necessary to identify a document uniquely for storage and retrieval?
Where is the database of record for storing bibliographic information about the image document? How are basic internal structures of documents, such as pagination, made accessible to the reader?
How are the image documents physically presented on the screen to the reader? The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of deteriorated library materials.
Some commercially available systems include these functions, while some do not.
The scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies-- both poor overall contrast resulting from light print and/or dark background, and variable contrast resulting from stains and bleed-through.
Furthermore, the scan density must be adequate to allow legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudo-halftoned gray material.
Borders or page-edge effects must be removed for both compactibility and aesthetics.
When combined with EIM system planning and operations, standards can assist in generating image databases that are interchangeable among a variety of systems.
The applications of different approaches for image-tagging, indexing, compression, and transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility, calibration, performance, and upward compatibility, until standard implementation parameters are established.
The AIIM standards that are being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the uncertainty, successfully integrate imaging processes, and promote "open systems.
AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute (ANSI) standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of 300 volunteers representing users, vendors, and manufacturers.
The AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by many organizations in many different countries.
It will contain standards publications' dates, origins, related national and international projects, status, key words, and abstracts.
The ANSI Image Technology Standards Board requested that such a database be established, as did the ISO/International Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force on Imagery.
The American Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from 1980 for its twenty journals.
As a formal language construct, an SGML document can be parsed against a document-type definition (DTD) that unambiguously defines what elements are allowed and where in the document they can (or must) occur.
This formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to be uncoupled from the underlying database system, an important step toward interoperability.
Our file contains the American Chemical Society's on-line journals, supplemented with the graphics from the paper publication.
The indexing of the articles from Chemical Abstracts Documents is available in both image and text format, and several different interfaces can be used.
NAL's experience with optical character recognition (OCR) will be related and compared with the experience of having text rekeyed. What factors affect OCR accuracy?
How accurate does full text have to be in order to be useful?
How do different users react to imperfect text? These are questions that will be explored.
For many, a service bureau may be a better solution than performing the work inhouse; this will also be discussed. SESSION VI Marybeth PETERS Copyright law protects creative works.
Protection granted by the law to authors and disseminators of works includes the right to do or authorize the following: reproduce the work, prepare derivative works, distribute the work to the public, and publicly perform or display the work.
In addition, copyright owners of sound recordings and computer programs have the right to control rental of their works.
The marketplace is working in this area.
Contracts, guidelines on electronic use, and collective licensing are in use and being refined. Issues concerning the ability to change works without detection are more difficult to deal with.
Questions concerning the integrity of the work and the status of the changed version under the copyright law are to be addressed.
These are public policy issues which require informed dialogue. *** *** *** ****** *** *** *** Appendix III: DIRECTORY OF PARTICIPANTS PRESENTERS: Pamela Q.J.
Brownrigg, Executive Director Memex Research Institute 422 Bonita Avenue Roseville, CA 95678 Phone: (916) 784-2298 Fax: (916) 786-7559 E-mail: BITNET: MEMEX@CALSTATE.2 Eric M.
Hooton, Vice President Business & Technical Development Imaging & Information Systems Group I-NET 6430 Rockledge Drive, Suite 400 Bethesda, MD 208l7 Phone: (301) 564-6750 Fax: (513) 564-6867 Anne R.
Kenney, Associate Director Department of Preservation and Conservation 701 Olin Library Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Phone: (607) 255-6875 Fax: (607) 255-9346 E-mail: LYDY@CORNELLA.BITNET Ronald L.
Larsen Associate Director for Information Technology University of Maryland at College Park Room B0224, McKeldin Library College Park, MD 20742-7011 Phone: (301) 405-9194 Fax: (301) 314-9865 E-mail: rlarsen@libr.umd.edu Maria L.
Lynch Director, Library Automation University of California, Office of the President 300 Lakeside Drive, 8th Floor Oakland, CA 94612-3350 Phone: (510) 987-0522 Fax: (510) 839-3573 E-mail: calur@uccmvsa Avra Michelson National Archives and Records Administration NSZ Rm.
14N 7th & Pennsylvania, N.W. Washington, D.C.
Michael Sperberg-McQueen Editor, Text Encoding Initiative Computer Center (M/C 135) University of Illinois at Chicago Box 6998 Chicago, IL 60680 Phone: (312) 413-0317 Fax: (312) 996-6834 E-mail: u35395@uicvm..cc.uic.edu or u35395@uicvm.bitnet George R.
Veccia, Team leader American Memory, User Evaluation Library of Congress American Memory Evaluation Project Phone: (202) 707-9104 Fax: (202) 707-3764 E-mail: svec@seq1.loc.gov Donald J.
Zich Special Assistant to the Associate Librarian for Special Projects Library of Congress Phone: (202) 707-6233 Fax: (202) 707-3764 E-mail: rzic@seq1.loc.gov Judith A.
20506 Phone: (202) 786-0358 Fax: (202) 786-0243 M.
Ellyn Blanton, Deputy Director National Demonstration Laboratory for Interactive Information Technologies Library of Congress Phone: (202) 707-4157 Fax: (202) 707-2829 Charles M.
Dollar National Archives and Records Administration NSZ Rm.
20036 Phone: (202) 872-4541 Fax: E-mail: INTERNET: LRG96@ACS.ORG William M.
Holmes, Jr. National Archives and Records Administration NSZ Rm.
Renear Senior Academic Planning Analyst Brown University Computing and Information Services 115 Waterman Street Campus Box 1885 Providence, R.I.
02912 Phone: (401) 863-7312 Fax: (401) 863-7329 E-mail: BITNET: Allen@BROWNVM or INTERNET: Allen@brownvm.brown.edu Susan M.
Severtson, President Chadwyck-Healey, Inc. 1101 King Street Alexandria, VA 223l4 Phone: (800) 752-05l5 Fax: (703) 683-7589 Frank Withrow U.S.
Department of Education 555 New Jersey Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20208-5644 Phone: (202) 219-2200 Fax: (202) 219-2106 (LC STAFF) Linda L.
Arret Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room LJ 132 (202) 707-1490 John D.
Harris Preservation LM G21 (202) 707-5213 Staley Hitchcock Manuscript Division LM 102 (202) 707-5383 Bohdan Kantor Office of Special Projects LM 612 (202) 707-0180 John W.
Kimball, Jr Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room LJ 132 (202) 707-6560 Basil Manns Information Technology Services LM G51 (202) 707-8345 Sally Hart McCallum Network Development LM 639 (202) 707-6237 Dana J.
Pratt Publishing Office LM 602 (202) 707-6027 Jane Riefenhauser American Memory LM 603 (202) 707-6233 William Z.
Schenck Collections Development LM 650 (202) 707-7706 Chandru J.
Shahani Preservation Research and Testing Office (R&T) LM G38 (202) 707-5607 William J.
Sittig Collections Development LM 650 (202) 707-7050 Paul Smith Manuscript Division LM 102 (202) 707-5097 James L.
This editing required the removal of diacritics, underlining, and fonts such as italics and bold. kde 11/92 [A few of the italics (when used for emphasis) were replaced by CAPS mh]
The Marvelous Land of Oz by L.
FRANK BAUM. Chicago, June, 1904 To those excellent good fellows and comedians David C.
When sent to the forest Tip often climbed trees for birds' eggs or amused himself chasing the fleet white rabbits or fishing in the brooks with bent pins.
Then he would hastily gather his armful of wood and carry it home.
So, by taking care not to exhaust his strength, he grew as strong and rugged as a boy may be. Mombi's curious magic often frightened her neighbors, and they treated her shyly, yet respectfully, because of her weird powers.
But Tip frankly hated her, and took no pains to hide his feelings.
For the body he stripped a sheet of thick bark from around a big tree, and with much labor fashioned it into a cylinder of about the right size, pinning the edges together with wooden pegs.
Then he stood the figure up against the wall and admired it.
So he went again to the forest, which was not far away, and chopped from a tree several pieces of wood with which to complete his work.
When he returned he fastened a cross-piece to the upper end of the body, making a hole through the center to hold upright the neck.
The bit of wood which formed this neck was also sharpened at the upper end, and when all was ready Tip put on the pumpkin head, pressing it well down onto the neck, and found that it fitted very well.
These he carried away to his man and succeeded, although the garments did not fit very well, in dressing the creature in a jaunty fashion.
So good a man as this must surely have a name.
So he started to carry his man there, but found him heavy and rather awkward to handle.
Tip also noticed that Jack's pumpkin head had twisted around until it faced his back; but this was easily remedied.
She had met a crooked wizard who resided in a lonely cave in the mountains, and had traded several important secrets of magic with him.
And now let us see if it is potent.
The stingy wizard didn't give me much of it, but I guess there's enough for two or three doses." [Illustration: image029] Tip was much surprised when he overheard this speech.
Then he saw old Mombi raise her arm and sprinkle the powder from the box over the pumpkin head of his man Jack.
Then it struck him as a very funny thing for Jack to come to life, especially as the expression on his pumpkin face was so droll and comical it excited laughter on the instant.
I was laughing at old Pumpkinhead!
For although I feel that I know a tremendous lot, I am not yet aware how much there is in the world to find out about.
But we must get home at once, for it is growing dark.
Help the Pumpkinhead to walk." "Never mind me," said Jack; "I can walk as well as you can.
It was a round, domeshaped structure, as are nearly all the farm houses in the Land of Oz. Mombi bade the boy light a candle, while she put her basket in a cupboard and hung her cloak on a peg.
Tip obeyed quickly, for he was afraid of her. After the candle had been lighted Mombi ordered him to build a fire in the hearth, and while Tip was thus engaged the old woman ate her supper.
There won't be any one to work for you." "I'll make the Pumpkinhead work for me," said Mombi. Again Tip groaned. "Why don't you change me into a goat, or a chicken?" he asked, anxiously.
You can't do anything with a marble statue." "Oh, yes, I can," returned Mombi.
I'm going to plant a flower garden, next Spring, and I'll put you in the middle of it, for an ornament.
For years I've been a bother to her, she says; so she's going to get rid of me.
Well, there's an easier way than to become a statue.
No boy could have any fun forever standing in the middle of a flower garden!
I'll run away, that's what I'll do-and I may as well go before she makes me drink that nasty stuff in the kettle.
While turning over the contents of the basket he came upon the pepper-box which contained the "Powder of Life." "I may as well take this with me," he thought, "or Mombi'll be using it to make more mischief with.
I wonder how I ever came to live with her." He was walking slowly toward the road when a thought made him pause. "I don't like to leave Jack Pumpkinhead to the tender mercies of old Mombi," he muttered.
Jack walked with a sort of limp, and occasionally one of the joints of his legs would turn backward, instead of frontwise, almost causing him to tumble.
But the Pumpkinhead was quick to notice this, and began to take more pains to step carefully; so that he met with few accidents. [Illustration: image041] Tip led him along the path without stopping an instant.
I don't seem to be made the same way you are," he said. "I know you are not," returned Tip; "for I made you." "Oh!
Did you?" asked Jack. [Illustration: image043] "Certainly.
And carved your eyes and nose and ears and mouth," said Tip proudly.
Yes, my son; I really believe I am!" "Then I owe you obedience," continued the man, "and you owe me-support." "That's it, exactly", declared Tip, jumping up.
I've never been there, myself, but I've heard all about its history.
Can't you see?" returned the boy. "I believe I must be color-blind," said the Pumpkinhead, after staring about him. "Well, the grass is purple, and the trees are purple, and the houses and fences are purple," explained Tip.
Even the mud in the roads is purple.
But in the Emerald City everything is green that is purple here.
I'm getting confused with all this history.
Who is the Scarecrow?" "Another friend of Dorothy's," replied Tip. "And who is Dorothy?" "She was a girl that came here from Kansas, a place in the big, outside World.
And what became of the Scarecrow?" "I told you.
He rules the Emerald City," answered Tip. "I thought you said it was ruled by a wonderful Wizard," objected Jack, seeming more and more confused. "Well, so I did.
Now, pay attention, and I'll explain it," said Tip, speaking slowly and looking the smiling Pumpkinhead squarely in the eye.
But," he continued, after a pause, "it is quite certain I shall wear out my wooden joints if I keep on walking." Tip reflected, as they journeyed on, that this was true.
He began to regret that he had not constructed the wooden limbs more carefully and substantially.
It seems the safest way." "Very well, dear father." just as you say, replied the smiling Jack, who had been in no wise confused by his tumble. Tip sat down again.
Presently the Pumpkinhead asked: "What is that thing you are sitting on?" "Oh, this is a horse," replied the boy, carelessly. "What is a horse?" demanded Jack. "A horse?
Why, there are two kinds of horses," returned Tip, slightly puzzled how to explain.
One kind of horse is alive, and has four legs and a head and a tail.
And people ride upon its back." "I understand," said Jack, cheerfully "That's the kind of horse you are now sitting on." "No, it isn't," answered Tip, promptly. "Why not?
That one has four legs, and a head, and a tail.
Tip looked at the saw-horse more carefully, and found that the Pumpkinhead was right.
The body had been formed from a tree-trunk, and a branch had been left sticking up at one end that looked very much like a tail.
And of course it can't ever be alive, because it is made of wood." "So am I," answered the man. Tip looked at him in surprise. "Why, so you are!" he exclaimed.
Then he lifted his left hand, with the little finger pointing upward, and said: "Weaugh!" "What does that mean, dear father?" asked Jack, curiously. "I don't know," answered Tip.
You are a very clever sorcerer, dear father!" [Illustration: image055] [Illustration: image056] [Illustration: image057] The Awakening of the Saw-horse The Saw-Horse, finding himself alive, seemed even more astonished than Tip.
He rolled his knotty eyes from side to side, taking a first wondering view of the world in which he had now so important an existence.
Then he tried to look at himself; but he had, indeed, no neck to turn; so that in the endeavor to see his body he kept circling around and around, without catching even a glimpse of it.
How, then, am I going to stop him?" But at that instant the Saw-Horse stopped himself, having concluded it was impossible to see his own body.
Unwinding this, he approached the Saw-Horse and tied the cord around its neck, afterward fastening the other end to a large tree.
Then you can tell him what to do." "That's a splendid idea!" said Tip.
I guess these ears are ready now.
Then he continued to rush forward as if frightened by the clatter of his own foot-steps. "Whoa!" shouted Tip, picking himself up; "whoa! you idiot whoa!
But what happened to me, a moment ago?
I don't seem to be just right, someway." [Illustration: image062] "You're upside down," explained Tip.
But just keep those legs still a minute and I'll set you right side up again." "How many sides have I?" asked the creature, wonderingly. "Several," said Tip, briefly.
Whoa!' means to stop; 'Get-Up!' means to walk forward; 'Trot!' means to go as fast as you can.
Understand?" "I believe I do," returned the horse. "Very good.
We are all going on a journey to the Emerald City, to see His Majesty, the Scarecrow; and Jack Pumpkinhead is going to ride on your back, so he won't wear out his joints." "I don't mind," said the Saw-Horse.
Anything that suits you suits me." Then Tip assisted Jack to get upon the horse. "Hold on tight," he cautioned, "or you may fall off and crack your pumpkin head." "That would be horrible!" said Jack, with a shudder.
He went into the wood and cut a short length of limb from a young, stout tree.
One end of this he sharpened to a point, and then he dug a hole in the back of the Saw-Horse, just behind its head.
Next he brought a piece of rock from the road and hammered the post firmly into the animal's back. "Stop!
Stop!" shouted the horse; "you're jarring me terribly." [Illustration: image065] "Does it hurt?" asked the boy. "Not exactly hurt," answered the animal; "but it makes me quite nervous to be jarred." "Well, it's all over now" said Tip, encouragingly.
Presently he began to whistle. "What does that sound mean?" asked the horse. "Don't pay any attention to it," said Tip.
He led the Saw-Horse to a grassy mound upon which grew several bushy trees, and carefully assisted the Pumpkinhead to alight. "I think I'll lay you upon the ground, overnight," said the boy.
He rubbed the sleep from his eyes, bathed in a little brook, and then ate a portion of his bread and cheese.
Having thus prepared for a new day the boy said: "Let us start at once.
Nine miles is quite a distance, but we ought to reach the Emerald City by noon if no accidents happen.
So the boy led it down into the water and climbed upon its back.
He was clothed all in green and wore a high, peaked green hat upon his head and green spectacles over his eyes.
Bowing before the Pumpkinhead he said: "I am the Guardian of the Gates of the Emerald City.
Then it gave a prance and brought one leg down on the Guardian's toes. "Ouch!" cried the man; "I'm sorry I asked that question.
But the answer is most convincing.
Have you any errand, sir, in the Emerald City?" "It seems to me that I have," replied the Pumpkinhead, seriously; "but I cannot think what it is.
My father knows all about it, but he is not here." "This is a strange affair very strange!" declared the Guardian.
The Guardian pulled a bell-cord, and presently a very tall soldier-clothed in a green uniform-entered from the opposite door. This soldier carried a long green gun over his shoulder and had lovely green whiskers that fell quite to his knees.
The Guardian at once addressed him, saying: "Here is a strange gentleman who doesn't know why he has come to the Emerald City, or what he wants.
Tell me, what shall we do with him?" The Soldier with the Green Whiskers looked at Jack with much care and curiosity.
I have troubles enough of my own.
All outside troubles must be turned over to His Majesty.
Tie them on, by all means.
They calmly followed after the green soldier and scarcely noticed the crowds of green people who stared at them in surprise.
The clothes were also stuffed with straw, and that so unevenly or carelessly that his Majesty's legs and arms seemed more bumpy than was necessary.
Upon his hands were gloves with long fingers, and these were padded with cotton.
Wisps of straw stuck out from the monarch's coat and also from his neck and boot-tops.
Upon his head he wore a heavy golden crown set thick with sparkling jewels, and the weight of this crown caused his brow to sag in wrinkles, giving a thoughtful expression to the painted face.
You see, I came from the Country of the Gillikins, so that I am a foreigner." "Ah, to be sure!" exclaimed the Scarecrow.
I myself speak the language of the Munchkins, which is also the language of the Emerald City.
But you, I suppose, speak the language of the Pumpkinheads?" "Exactly so, your Majesty" replied the other, bowing; "so it will be impossible for us to understand one another." "That is unfortunate, certainly," said the Scarecrow, thoughtfully.
We must have an interpreter." "What is an interpreter?" asked Jack. "A person who understands both my language and your own.
When I say anything, the interpreter can tell you what I mean; and when you say anything the interpreter can tell me what _you_ mean.
If you wish me to sit down you must make a sign for me to do so.
The Scarecrow came down from his throne and rolled an armchair to a position behind the Pumpkinhead.
A dainty green silk skirt reached to her knees, showing silk stockings embroidered with pea-pods, and green satin slippers with bunches of lettuce for decorations instead of bows or buckles.
Who made you?" "A boy named Tip," answered Jack. "What does he say?" inquired the Scarecrow.
My ears must have deceived me.
Ask him, my dear, if he has any objection to being put in jail for insulting the ruler of the Emerald City." "I didn't insult you!" protested Jack, indignantly. "Tut-tut!" cautioned the Scarecrow "wait, until Jellia translates my speech.
What have we got an interpreter for, if you break out in this rash way?" "All right, I'll wait," replied the Pumpkinhead, in a surly tone-although his face smiled as genially as ever.
Translate the speech, young woman." "His Majesty inquires if you are hungry," said Jellia. "Oh, not at all!" answered Jack, more pleasantly, "for it is impossible for me to eat." "It's the same way with me," remarked the Scarecrow.
It was the same in my case," said the King, pleasantly.
And so, as we differ from all ordinary people, let us become friends." "With all my heart!" exclaimed Jack. "What!
Then he discovered that he was hungry and the crackers and cheese he had provided for the Journey had all been eaten. While wondering what he should do in this emergency he came upon a girl sitting by the roadside.
Yes, the face was pretty enough, he decided; but it wore an expression of discontent coupled to a shade of defiance or audacity. While the boy stared the girl looked upon him calmly.
Carry that basket for me and help yourself to its contents if you are hungry." Tip seized the basket eagerly and began to eat, following for a time the strange girl without bothering to ask questions.
May I ask your name?" "I am General Jinjur," was the brief reply. "Oh!" said the boy surprised.
What sort of a General?" "I command the Army of Revolt in this war," answered the General, with unnecessary sharpness. "Oh!" he again exclaimed.
But where is your army?" "About a mile from here," said General Jinjur.
The forces have assembled from all parts of the Land of Oz, at my express command.
For this is the day we are to conquer His Majesty the Scarecrow, and wrest from him the throne.
The Army of Revolt only awaits my coming to march upon the Emerald City." "Well!" declared Tip, drawing a long breath, "this is certainly a surprising thing!
What man would oppose a girl, or dare to harm her?
And there is not an ugly face in my entire Army." Tip laughed. "Perhaps you are right," said he.
But the Guardian of the Gate is considered a faithful Guardian, and the King's Army will not let the City be conquered without a struggle." "The Army is old and feeble," replied General Jinjur, scornfully.
His strength has all been used to grow whiskers, and his wife has such a temper that she has already pulled more than half of them out by the roots.
When the Wonderful Wizard reigned the Soldier with the Green Whiskers was a very good Royal Army, for people feared the Wizard.
All had green waists, representing the Emerald City they intended to conquer, and the top button on each waist indicated by its color which country the wearer came from.
The uniforms were Jaunty and becoming, and quite effective when massed together. Tip thought this strange Army bore no weapons whatever; but in this he was wrong.
He carried a bunch of keys swung round his neck by a golden chain; his hands were thrust carelessly into his pockets, and he seemed to have no idea at all that the City was threatened by rebels.
Speaking pleasantly to the girls, he said: "Good morning, my dears!
What can I do for you?" "Surrender instantly!" answered General Jinjur, standing before him and frowning as terribly as her pretty face would allow her to. "Surrender!" echoed the man, astounded.
I never heard of such a thing in my life." "Still, you must surrender!" exclaimed the General, fiercely.
Go home to your mothers, my good girls, and milk the cows and bake the bread.
Would you shoot a poor, defenceless girl?" "No," replied the soldier. "for my gun isn't loaded." "Not loaded?" "No; for fear of accidents.
And I've forgotten where I hid the powder and shot to load it with.
But if you'll wait a short time I'll try to hunt them up." "Don't trouble yourself," said Jinjur, cheerfully.
The Army of Revolt had become an Army of Conquerors! [Illustration: image111] [Illustration: image112] [Illustration: image113] The Scarecrow Plans an escape Tip slipped away from the girls and followed swiftly after the Soldier with the Green Whiskers.
The invading army entered the City more slowly, for they stopped to dig emeralds out of the walls and paving-stones with the points of their knitting-needles.
The City is conquered!" gasped the Royal Army, who was all out of breath. "This is quite sudden," said the Scarecrow.
I'm glad to see you are here.
That terrible Saw-Horse ran away with me." "I suspected it," said Tip.
I am sure he will protect me." Tip was looking out the window. "The palace is surrounded by the enemy," said he.
It is too late to escape.
They would soon tear you to pieces." The Scarecrow sighed. "In an emergency," he announced, "it is always a good thing to pause and reflect.
Please excuse me while I pause and reflect." "But we also are in danger," said the Pumpkinhead, anxiously.
The matter is more serious than I suspected." "You," said the Pumpkinhead, gloomily, "are liable to live for many years.
My life is necessarily short.
So I must take advantage of the few days that remain to me." "There, there!
Has the animal been fed?" "Oh, yes; I gave him a heaping peck of sawdust." "Excellent!" cried the Scarecrow.
Bring the horse here at once." The Soldier hastened away, and presently they heard the clattering of the horse's wooden legs upon the pavement as he was led into the courtyard. His Majesty regarded the steed critically.
I shall therefore leave my Royal Army Behind.
For, from the ease with which he was conquered, I have little confidence in his powers." "Still, he can run," declared Tip, laughing. "I expected this blow" said the Soldier, sulkily; "but I can bear it.
I shall disguise myself by cutting off my lovely green whiskers.
And, after all, it is no more dangerous to face those reckless girls than to ride this fiery, untamed wooden horse!" "Perhaps you are right," observed his Majesty.
But, for my part, not being a soldier, I am fond of danger.
Now, my boy, you must mount first.
And please sit as close to the horse's neck as possible." Tip climbed quickly to his place, and the Soldier and the Scarecrow managed to hoist the Pumpkinhead to a seat just behind him.
There remained so little space for the King that he was liable to fall off as soon as the horse started. "Fetch a clothesline," said the King to his Army, "and tie us all together.
But in one place a passage led to an outer gateway, which the Soldier had barred by order of his sovereign.
Others ran screaming out of the way, and only one or two jabbed their knitting-needles frantically at the escaping prisoners.
Slow him up!" shouted the Scarecrow.
I only use it when I am angry." "Then it pleases me to be able to call you a fool, in return," said the horse.
Then he called out to the Pumpkinhead: "are you all right, Jack?" There was no reply.
So the boy called to the King "are you all right, your majesty?" The Scarecrow groaned. "I'm all wrong, somehow," he said, in a weak voice.
At that moment it was quite out of Tip's reach, but after a time it floated nearer and still nearer until the boy was able to reach it with his pole and draw it to the shore.
I wonder if water is liable to spoil pumpkins?" Tip did not think a reply was necessary, for he knew that the Scarecrow also stood in need of his help.
So he carefully removed the straw from the King's body and legs, and spread it out in the sun to dry.
If your head isn't cracked, my friend, you must be in fairly good condition." "Oh, my head isn't cracked in the least," declared Jack, more cheerfully. "Then don't worry," retorted the boy.
There are several distinct advantages in being a Scarecrow.
All you need fear, my boy, is old age.
When your golden youth has decayed we shall quickly part company-but you needn't look forward to it; we'll discover the fact ourselves, and notify you.
Let us resume our journey.
And the Saw-Horse rocked and rolled over the flower-strewn fields and carried its riders swiftly upon their way. Twilight fell, bye and bye, and then the dark shadows of night.
So Tip stopped the horse and they all proceeded to dismount. "I'm tired out," said the boy, yawning wearily; "and the grass is soft and cool.
I remember it was the same way with little Dorothy.
We always had to sit through the night while she slept." "I'm sorry," said Tip, meekly, "but I can't help it.
And I'm dreadfully hungry, too!" "Here is a new danger!" remarked Jack, gloomily.
I hope you are not fond of eating pumpkins." "Not unless they're stewed and made into pies," answered the boy, laughing.
We all have our weaknesses, dear friends; so we must strive to be considerate of one another.
I hope that he rules his people more successfully than I have ruled mine!" "Is the Tin Woodman the Emperor of the Winkies?" asked the horse. "Yes, indeed.
You would hurt his feelings terribly.
The Emperor is not receiving this morning." "How is that?" enquired the Scarecrow, anxiously.
I hope nothing has happened to him." "Oh, no; nothing serious," returned the man.
But this is his Majesty's day for being polished; and just now his august presence is thickly smeared with putz-pomade." "Oh, I see!" cried the Scarecrow, greatly reassured.
My friend was ever inclined to be a dandy, and I suppose he is now more proud than ever of his personal appearance." "He is, indeed," said the man, with a polite bow.
Our mighty Emperor has lately caused himself to be nickel-plated." "Good Gracious!" the Scarecrow exclaimed at hearing this.
If his wit bears the same polish, how sparkling it must be!
But show us in-I'm sure the Emperor will receive us, even in his present state" "The Emperor's state is always magnificent," said the man.
My noble comrade!" cried the Tin Woodman, joyfully. "how delighted!
What a mess I'm in!" "Never mind, my friend," returned the Tin Woodman, "I'll send you to my Imperial Laundry, and you'll come out as good as new." "Won't I be mangled?" asked the Scarecrow. "No, indeed!" was the reply.
Do not, I beg of you, dampen today's sun with the showers of tomorrow.
You will observe this engraved star upon my left breast.
So they have captured my city, robbed the treasury of all its jewels, and are running things to suit themselves." "Dear me!
How large an army can you assemble?" "We do not need an army," replied the Woodman.
A live Saw-Horse is a distinct novelty, and should prove an interesting study.
But time is precious just now, so let us quickly make preparations to start upon our Journey." [Illustration: image146] The emperor called his Lord High Chancellor and instructed him how to run the kingdom during his absence.
Meanwhile the Scarecrow was taken apart and the painted sack that served him for a head was carefully laundered and restuffed with the brains originally given him by the great Wizard.
His clothes were also cleaned and pressed by the Imperial tailors, and his crown polished and again sewed upon his head, for the Tin Woodman insisted he should not renounce this badge of royalty.
The Scarecrow now presented a very respectable appearance, and although in no way addicted to vanity he was quite pleased with himself and strutted a trifle as he walked.
E. Now, General Jinjur-who, you will remember, commanded the Army of Revolt-was rendered very uneasy by the escape of the Scarecrow from the Emerald City.
I ought to know by heart and every step of this Journey, yet I fear we have already lost our way." "That is quite impossible!" protested the Scarecrow.
But now the sunflowers suddenly stopped their rapid whirling, and the travelers plainly saw a girl's face appear in the center of each flower.
But I cannot conceive how the girls could have followed us here so quickly." "I believe it's magic," said Tip, positively, "and that someone is playing a trick upon us.
I've known old Mombi do things like that before.
Probably it's nothing more than an illusion, and there are no sunflowers here at all." "Then let us shut our eyes and walk forward," suggested the Woodman. "Excuse me," replied the Scarecrow.
My eyes are already so dazzled that I can scarcely see." So the Pumpkinhead rode boldly forward, and Tip grasped the stub tail of the Saw-Horse and followed with closed eyes.
The Saw-Horse stepped into a rabbit hole and fell to the ground.
But the Saw-Horse did not escape so easily.
For when his leg was pulled from the rabbit hole it was found to be broken short off, and must be replaced or repaired before he could go a step farther. "This is quite serious," said the Tin Woodman.
I hope you are, as an aggregation, enjoying excellent health.
Is not my name upon the card?" "It is," said the Scarecrow.
But may I ask what 'H.
M.' means Highly Magnified," returned the Woggle-Bug, proudly. "Oh, I see.
The Scarecrow viewed the stranger critically.
And are you, in truth, highly magnified?" "Sir," said the Woggle-Bug, "I take you for a gentleman of judgment and discernment.
Does it not occur to you that I am several thousand times greater than any Woggle-Bug you ever saw before?
Therefore it is plainly evident that I am Highly Magnified, and there is no good reason why you should doubt the fact." "Pardon me," returned the Scarecrow.
My brains are slightly mixed since I was last laundered.
Would it be improper for me to ask, also, what the 'T.E.' at the end of your name stands for?" "Those letters express my degree," answered the Woggle-Bug, with a condescending smile.
To be more explicit, the initials mean that I am Thoroughly Educated." "Oh!" said the Scarecrow, much relieved. Tip had not yet taken his eyes off this wonderful personage.
What he saw was a great, round, buglike body supported upon two slender legs which ended in delicate feet-the toes curling upward.
I hope, however, that this circumstance will not distress you.
Not one of them was more attentive than the humble, unnoticed Woggle-Bug, and I acquired in this way a fund of knowledge that I will myself confess is simply marvelous.
That is why I place 'T.E.
Thoroughly Educated upon my cards; for my greatest pride lies in the fact that the world cannot produce another Woggle-Bug with a tenth part of my own culture and erudition." "I do not blame you," said the Scarecrow.
Education is a thing to be proud of.
But in the course of my wanderings I had the good fortune to save the ninth life of a tailor-tailors having, like cats, nine lives, as you probably know.
The fellow was exceedingly grateful, for had he lost that ninth life it would have been the end of him; so he begged permission to furnish me with the stylish costume I now wear.
We are quite as congenial as flies and honey." "But-pardon me if I seem inquisitive-are you not all rather-ahem! rather unusual?" asked the Woggle-Bug, looking from one to another with unconcealed interest. "Not more so than yourself," answered the Scarecrow.
The Saw-Horse has broken a leg, so he can't bend his steps.
And there is no wood around to make him a new limb from.
And we can't leave the horse behind because the Pumpkinhead is so stiff in his Joints that he has to ride." "How very unfortunate!" cried the Woggle-Bug.
Then he looked the party over carefully and said: "If the Pumpkinhead is to ride, why not use one of his legs to make a leg for the horse that carries him?
I judge that both are made of wood." "Now, that is what I call real cleverness," said the Scarecrow, approvingly.
I wonder my brains did not think of that long ago!
Remember, if you please, that it is my leg you are abusing." "I cannot forget it," retorted the Saw-Horse, "for it is quite as flimsy as the rest of your person." "Flimsy! me flimsy!" cried Jack, in a rage.
How dare you call me flimsy?" "Because you are built as absurdly as a jumping-jack," sneered the horse, rolling his knotty eyes in a vicious manner.
Even your head won't stay straight, and you never can tell whether you are looking backwards or forwards!" "Friends, I entreat you not to quarrel!" pleaded the Tin Woodman, anxiously.
As a matter of fact, we are none of us above criticism; so let us bear with each others' faults." "An excellent suggestion," said the Woggle-Bug, approvingly.
You must have an excellent heart, my metallic friend." "I have," returned Nick, well pleased.
My heart is quite the best part of me.
So they were obliged to halt while the Tin Woodman chopped it down with his axe, after which the wooden steed paced along more comfortably.
But the Saw-Horse was not entirely satisfied, even yet. "It was a shame that I broke my other leg!" it growled. "On the contrary," airily remarked the Woggle-Bug, who was walking alongside, "you should consider the accident most fortunate.
It requires education of a high order.
Are you educated, young sir?" "Not especially," admitted Tip. "Then you cannot judge the matter.
I myself am Thoroughly Educated, and I say that puns display genius.
In any event, I must beg you to restrain your superior education while in our society." "We are not very particular," added the Tin Woodman; "and we are exceedingly kind hearted.
Can I do anything to assist my old friends?" "You can, indeed," replied the Scarecrow, eagerly.
Let me, I intreat you, take a dozen of your subjects with me to the Emerald City." "Will they be injured in any way?" asked the Queen, doubtfully. "I think not," replied the Scarecrow.
I will carry them hidden in the straw which stuffs my body, and when I give them the signal by unbuttoning my jacket, they have only to rush out and scamper home again as fast as they can.
For some enemy is evidently trying to prevent us from reaching it." "I will do that gladly," returned the Queen.
Are you ready?" The Tin Woodman looked at Tip. "I'm rested," said the boy.
Yet not one of the obstacles really existed-all were cleverly contrived deceptions.
The fire does not burn her in the least.
All magic is unnatural, and for that reason is to be feared and avoided.
I'm glad you have decided to come back and restore order, for doing housework and minding the children is wearing out the strength of every man in the Emerald City." "Hm!" said the Scarecrow, thoughtfully.
If it is such hard work as you say, how did the women manage it so easily?" "I really do not know" replied the man, with a deep sigh.
Perhaps the women are made of castiron." No movement was made, as they passed along the street, to oppose their progress.
Several of the women stopped their gossip long enough to cast curious looks upon our friends, but immediately they would turn away with a laugh or a sneer and resume their chatter.
Look out for trouble ahead." "I will," returned his Majesty.
Don't you know you are guilty of treason, and that there is a law against treason?" "The throne belongs to whoever is able to take it," answered Jinjur, as she slowly ate another caramel.
And then you can both rule," suggested the Woggle-Bug. Jinjur glared at the insect fiercely.
Why don't you send her back to her mother, where she belongs?" asked Jack Pumpkinhead. Jinjur frowned. "Why don't you shut her up in a closet until she behaves herself, and promises to be good?" enquired Tip.
Jinjur's lip curled scornfully. "Or give her a good shaking!" added the Saw-Horse. "No," said the Tin Woodman, "we must treat the poor girl with gentleness.
The Tin Woodman's axe was snatched from his grasp by some person behind him, and he found himself disarmed and helpless.
I bear you no ill will, I assure you; but lest you should prove troublesome to me in the future I shall order you all to be destroyed.
That is, all except the boy, who belongs to old Mombi and must be restored to her keeping.
The rest of you are not human, and therefore it will not be wicked to demolish you.
The Saw-Horse and the Pumpkinhead's body I will have chopped up for kindling-wood; and the pumpkin shall be made into tarts.
The Scarecrow will do nicely to start a bonfire, and the tin man can be cut into small pieces and fed to the goats.
The Scarecrow alone did not give way to despair.
He stood quietly before the Queen and his brow was wrinkled in deep thought as he strove to find some means to escape. While thus engaged he felt the straw within his breast move gently.
Another mouse quickly followed; then another and another, in rapid succession.
And suddenly such a scream of terror went up from the Army that it might easily have filled the stoutest heart with consternation.
But the enemy will soon return, I fear." "Let us bar all the entrances to the palace!" said the Scarecrow.
Look out of the window, and tell me what you see." Tip ran to the window and looked out. "The palace is surrounded by a double row of girl soldiers," he announced. "I thought so," returned the Scarecrow.
We are as truly their prisoners as we were before the mice frightened them from the palace." "My friend is right," said Nick Chopper, who had been polishing his breast with a bit of chamois-leather.
Jinjur is still the Queen, and we are her prisoners." "But I hope she cannot get at us," exclaimed the Pumpkinhead, with a shiver of fear.
She threatened to make tarts of me, you know." "Don't worry," said the Tin Woodman.
If you stay shut up here you will spoil in time, anyway.
A good tart is far more admirable than a decayed intellect." "Very true," agreed the Scarecrow. "Oh, dear!" moaned Jack; "what an unhappy lot is mine!
Why, dear father, did you not make me out of tin-or even out of straw-so that I would keep indefinitely." "Shucks!" returned Tip, indignantly.
You ought to be glad that I made you at all.
Not that I prefer pumpkins for food; but I believe they are somewhat nutritious, and Jack's head is large and plump." "How heartless!" exclaimed the Tin Woodman, greatly shocked.
Are we cannibals, let me ask?
Or are we faithful friends?" "I see very clearly that we cannot stay shut up in this palace," said the Scarecrow, with decision.
That's my Powder of Life.
She brought Jack to life with it, and afterward I used it to bring the Saw-Horse to life.
I guess it will make anything live that is sprinkled with it; but there's only about one dose left." "Then it is very precious," said the Tin Woodman. "Indeed it is," agreed the Scarecrow.
It may prove our best means of escape from our difficulties.
The former King of this City, who was named Pastoria, lost the crown to the Wonderful Wizard, who passed it on to me.
I'm quite proud of them.
If we attempt to escape through the doors of the palace we shall surely be captured.
And, as we can't escape through the ground, there is only one other thing to be done.
We must escape through the air!" He paused to note the effect of these words; but all his hearers seemed puzzled and unconvinced. "The Wonderful Wizard escaped in a balloon," he continued.
We don't know how to make a balloon, of course; but any sort of thing that can fly through the air can carry us easily.
This Gump resembled an Elk's head, only the nose turned upward in a saucy manner and there were whiskers upon its chin, like those of a billy-goat.
Why the Woggle-Bug selected this article he could not have explained, except that it had aroused his curiosity. Tip, with the aid of the Saw-Horse, had brought a large, upholstered sofa to the roof.
But it may be one more reason why it is necessary for us to escape.
This sofa is the biggest thing we have, and might be used for a body.
But, should the machine ever tip sideways, we would all slide off and fall to the ground." "Why not use two sofas?" asked Tip.
There's another one just like this down stairs." "That is a very sensible suggestion," exclaimed the Tin Woodman.
And, really, if you examine it critically, the Gump looks very well as a figure-head.
Are you not going to use my broom?" "What for?" asked the Scarecrow. "Why, it can be fastened to the back end for a tail," answered the Pumpkinhead.
Surely you would not call the Thing complete without a tail." "Hm!" said the Tin Woodman, "I do not see the use of a tail.
We are not trying to copy a beast, or a fish, or a bird.
All we ask of the Thing is to carry us through the air." "Perhaps, after the Thing is brought to life, it can use a tail to steer with," suggested the Scarecrow.
Don't, I beg of you, forget the head!" cried the Woggle-Bug, excitedly. "There's only a little of the powder left," announced Tip, looking within the box.
And it seems to me it is more important to bring the legs of the sofas to life than the head." "Not so," decided the Scarecrow.
The Scarecrow, being light in weight, was caught up bodily and borne through the air until Tip luckily seized him by one leg and held him fast.
The Woggle-Bug lay flat upon the roof and so escaped harm, and the Tin Woodman, whose weight of tin anchored him firmly, threw both arms around Jack Pumpkinhead and managed to save him.
The Saw-Horse toppled over upon his back and lay with his legs waving helplessly above him. And now, while all were struggling to recover themselves, the Thing rose slowly from the roof and mounted into the air. "Here!
Come back!" cried Tip, in a frightened voice, as he clung to the chimney with one hand and the Scarecrow with the other.
Come back at once, I command you!" It was now that the wisdom of the Scarecrow, in bringing the head of the Thing to life instead of the legs, was proved beyond a doubt.
The last thing I remember distinctly is walking through the forest and hearing a loud noise.
Something probably killed me then, and it certainly ought to have been the end of me.
Yet here I am, alive again, with four monstrous wings and a body which I venture to say would make any respectable animal or fowl weep with shame to own.
What does it all mean?
Am I a Gump, or am I a juggernaut?
The creature, as it spoke, wiggled its chin whiskers in a very comical manner. "You're just a Thing," answered Tip, "with a Gump's head on it.
And we have made you and brought you to life so that you may carry us through the air wherever we wish to go." "Very good!" said the Thing.
As I am not a Gump, I cannot have a Gump's pride or independent spirit.
So I may as well become your servant as anything else.
We shall be kind masters, and will strive to render your existence as pleasant as possible.
Are you willing to carry us through the air wherever we wish to go?" "Certainly," answered the Gump.
If I could but secure so complete an introduction to myself, I would be more than satisfied." "That will come in time," remarked the Scarecrow.
To 'Know Thyself' is considered quite an accomplishment, which it has taken us, who are your elders, months to perfect.
Let us go to her and ask her advice." "That is cleverly thought of," declared Nick Chopper, giving the Woggle-Bug a boost and then toppling the Saw-Horse into the rear end of the cushioned seats.
Hold on tight, or you may get a tumble.
The Thing seems to rock badly." "It will be dark soon," said Tip, observing that the sun was low on the horizon.
Perhaps we should have waited until morning.
I wonder if the Gump can fly in the night." "I've been wondering that myself," returned the Gump quietly.
You see, this is a new experience to me.
I used to have legs that carried me swiftly over the ground.
But now my legs feel as if they were asleep." "They are," said Tip.
Now, I wonder what that is for?" "Can't you get it apart, and find out?" enquired Tip, now quite interested in the mystery. "Why, yes; the lower bottom unscrews," said the Tin Woodman.
My fingers are rather stiff; please see if you can open it." He handed the pepper-box to Tip, who had no difficulty in unscrewing the bottom.
The Wish will immediately be granted. CAUTION: Keep in a Dry and Dark Place." "Why, this is a very valuable discovery!" cried the Scarecrow. "It is, indeed," replied Tip, gravely.
These pills may be of great use to us.
I wonder if old Mombi knew they were in the bottom of the pepper-box.
No one can possibly count seventeen by twos." "Then the pills are of no use to us," wailed the Pumpkinhead; "and this fact overwhelms me with grief.
For I had intended wishing that my head would never spoil." "Nonsense!" said the Scarecrow, sharply.
If we could use the pills at all we would make far better wishes than that." "I do not see how anything could be better," protested poor Jack.
If you were liable to spoil at any time you could understand my anxiety." "For my part," said the Tin Woodman, "I sympathize with you in every respect.
For Jack found his precious head resting on the soft breast of the Scarecrow, which made an excellent cushion; and Tip fell on a mass of leaves and papers, which saved him from injury.
But how we are ever to escape from this nest I must leave to someone with better brains than I possess." Here he gazed at the Scarecrow; who crawled to the edge of the nest and looked over.
Below them was a sheer precipice several hundred feet in depth.
Above them was a smooth cliff unbroken save by the point of rock where the wrecked body of the Gump still hung suspended from the end of one of the sofas.
And if they find us here they will surely kill us in their anger." "I was afraid of this!" moaned the Pumpkinhead.
So he commanded Tip to take off Jack's head and lie down with it in the bottom of the nest, and when this was done he ordered the Woggle-Bug to lie beside Tip.
Some of them pecked at the eyes of the Gump, which hung over the nest in a helpless condition; but the Gump's eyes were of glass and could not be injured.
His axe fairly flashed among the Jackdaws, and fortunately the Gump began wildly waving the two wings remaining on the left side of its body.
For where is the straw that stuffs my body?" The awful question startled them all.
They gazed around the nest with horror, for not a vestige of straw remained.
In the bottom of the nest are thousands of dollar bills-and two-dollar bills-and five-dollar bills-and tens, and twenties, and fifties.
There are enough of them to stuff a dozen Scarecrows.
I feel like a new man; and although at first glance I might be mistaken for a Safety Deposit Vault, I beg you to remember that my Brains are still composed of the same old material.
But he never said anything, so far as I can remember, about counting up to the odd number of seventeen by the even numbers of twos." "Stop! stop!" cried the Pumpkinhead.
You're making my head ache." "And mine," added the Scarecrow.
Your mathematics seem to me very like a bottle of mixed pickles the more you fish for what you want the less chance you have of getting it.
You're no wiser than the rest of us, are you?
But let us make a wish at once.
Who will swallow the first pill?" "Suppose you do it," suggested Tip. "I can't," said the Scarecrow. "Why not?
You've a mouth, haven't you?" asked the boy. "Yes; but my mouth is painted on, and there's no swallow connected with it," answered the Scarecrow.
O-o-h!" and here he rolled upon the bottom of the nest in such contortions that he frightened them all. "What can we do for you.
Speak, I beg!" entreated the Tin Woodman, tears of sympathy running down his nickel cheeks. "I-I don't know!" answered Tip.
Didn't Tip wish that he'd never swallowed one of them?
Well, the wish came true, and he _didn't_ swallow one of them.
So of course they are all three in the box." "That may be; but the pill gave me a dreadful pain, just the same," said the boy. "Impossible!" declared the Woggle-Bug.
If you have never swallowed it, the pill can not have given you a pain.
We've wasted one wish already." "Oh, no, we haven't!" protested the Scarecrow.
Here are still three pills in the box, and each pill is good for a wish." "Now you're making _my_ head ache," said Tip.
I can't understand the thing at all.
Let me have one of the pills." He swallowed it without hesitation, and they all stood admiring his courage while the Insect counted seventeen by twos in the same way that Tip had done.
We can now leave this miserable Jackdaws' nest whenever we please." "But it is nearly dark," said the Tin Woodman; "and unless we wait until morning to make our flight we may get into more trouble.
The Scarecrow took a fancy for rings, of which there were many in the nest.
Before long he had fitted a ring to each finger of his padded gloves, and not being content with that display he added one more to each thumb.
At least, that was the Scarecrow's opinion, and the others agreed that the Scarecrow was the best judge of direction.
After passing over several cities and villages the Gump carried them high above a broad plain where houses became more and more scattered until they disappeared altogether.
If we were at the Emerald City we could then move directly southward, and so reach our destination.
But these soldiers of the great Sorceress were entirely different from those of Jinjur's Army of Revolt, although they were likewise girls.
I suppose she knows why we came as well as we do ourselves." "Then what was the use of our coming?" asked Jack, stupidly. "To prove you are a Pumpkinhead!" retorted the Scarecrow.
Both the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman she knew and liked; but the awkward Pumpkinhead and Highly Magnified Woggle-Bug were creatures she had never seen before, and they seemed even more curious than the others.
But the Emerald City is now ruled by General Jinjur, who has caused herself to be proclaimed Queen.
Did you know that?" questioned the Sorceress. "No," replied the Scarecrow.
But if the girl still lives I will not stand in her way.
It will satisfy me as well to have Jinjur turned out, as an impostor, as to regain the throne myself.
In fact, it isn't much fun to be King, especially if one has good brains.
I have known for some time that I am fitted to occupy a far more exalted position.
But where is the girl who owns the throne, and what is her name?" "Her name is Ozma," answered Glinda.
But where she is I have tried in vain to discover.
I have in my library a book in which is inscribed every action of the Wizard while he was in our land of Oz-or, at least, every action that could be observed by my spies.
This book I will read carefully tonight, and try to single out the acts that may guide us in discovering the lost Ozma.
In the meantime, pray amuse yourselves in my palace and command my servants as if they were your own.
He ate beans with a knife, made three secret visits to old Mombi, and limped slightly on his left foot." "Ah! that last is certainly suspicious!" exclaimed the Pumpkinhead. "Not necessarily," said the Scarecrow. "he may, have had corns.
Why, indeed!" echoed the Woggle-Bug, impressively. "We know that the Wizard taught the old woman many of his tricks of magic," continued Glinda; "and this he would not have done had she not assisted him in some way.
So we may suspect with good reason that Mombi aided him to hide the girl Ozma, who was the real heir to the throne of the Emerald City, and a constant danger to the usurper.
For, if the people knew that she lived, they would quickly make her their Queen and restore her to her rightful position." "An able argument!" cried the Scarecrow.
I have no doubt that Mombi was mixed up in this wicked business.
But how does that knowledge help us?" "We must find Mombi," replied Glinda, "and force her to tell where the girl is hidden." "Mombi is now with Queen Jinjur, in the Emerald, City" said Tip.
The uniforms of the girl soldiers were pretty and of gay colors, and their silver-tipped spears were bright and glistening, the long shafts being inlaid with mother-of-pearl.
You might fall." "It wouldn't matter," remarked the educated Woggle-Bug. "he can't get broke so long as he is stuffed with money." "Didn't I ask you" began Tip, in a reproachful voice. "You did!" said the Woggle-Bug, promptly.
And I beg your pardon.
I will really try to restrain myself." "You'd better," declared the boy.
That is, if you wish to travel in our company." "Ah!
I couldn't bear to part with you now," murmured the Insect, feelingly; so Tip let the subject drop. The army moved steadily on, but night had fallen before they came to the walls of the Emerald City.
By the dim light of the new moon, however, Glinda's forces silently surrounded the city and pitched their tents of scarlet silk upon the greensward.
The tent of the Sorceress was larger than the others, and was composed of pure white silk, with scarlet banners flying above it.
The enemy is still outside the walls, so we must try to gain time by engaging them in parley.
Tell your Queen," said the Sorceress to the girl, "that she must deliver up to me old Mombi, to be my prisoner.
But she sent for Mombi, and told her what Glinda had said. "I see trouble ahead for all of us," muttered the old witch, after glancing into a magic mirror she carried in her pocket.
This is not Mombi at all, but some other person who has been made to resemble her!
Tell me," she demanded, turning to the trembling girl, "what is your name?" This Jellia dared not tell, having been threatened with death by the witch if she confessed the fraud.
Jinjur was prepared for this message, for the witch well understood, when her natural form was thrust upon her, that Glinda had discovered her trickery.
But the wicked old creature had already thought up a new deception, and had made Jinjur promise to carry it out.
So the Queen said to Glinda's messenger: "Tell your mistress that I cannot find Mombi anywhere, but that Glinda is welcome to enter the city and search herself for the old woman.
For no one knew the rose and Mombi to be one, and now that she was without the gates of the City her chances of escaping altogether from Glinda were much improved. "But there is no hurry," thought Mombi.
And for that I am sorry, because without our assistance little Ozma will never be rescued and restored to her rightful position as Queen of the Emerald City" "Do not let us give up so easily," said the Pumpkinhead.
It will give me great pleasure to entertain you in my castle, where there is room enough and to spare.
This quickly aroused her suspicions, and in a moment more the Sorceress had decided that the seeming rose was nothing else than a transformation of old Mombi.
So the Sorceress reached the opening of the tent before the Shadow, and with a wave of her hand closed the entrance so securely that Mombi could not find a crack big enough to creep through.
The Scarecrow and his friends were greatly surprised at Glinda's actions; for none of them had noted the Shadow.
But the Sorceress said to them: "Remain perfectly quiet, all of you!
She sprang upon the back of the Saw-Horse and cried: "Now you shall prove that you have a right to be alive!
Like a flash he followed the Griffin, his wooden legs moving so fast that they twinkled like the rays of a star.
Before our friends could recover from their surprise both the Griffin and the Saw-Horse had dashed out of sight. "Come!
So Tip called the Gump's attention to them and bade the creature try to overtake the Witch and the Sorceress.
But she had not reckoned on the untiring energy of the Saw-Horse, whose wooden limbs could run for days without slacking their speed.
Therefore, after an hour's hard running, the Griffin's breath began to fail, and it panted and gasped painfully, and moved more slowly than before.
Then it reached the edge of the desert and began racing across the deep sands.
Lie still a moment, and rest yourself, and then I will carry you back to my tent." "Why do you seek me?" asked Mombi, still scarce able to speak plainly for lack of breath.
You dare not harm me!" Just then the Gump flew up to them and alighted upon the desert sands beside Glinda.
Our friends were delighted to find that Mombi had finally been captured, and after a hurried consultation it was decided they should all return to the camp in the Gump.
So the Saw-Horse was tossed aboard, and then Glinda still holding an end of the golden thread that was around Mombi's neck, forced her prisoner to climb into the sofas.
You might spoil everything with your foolishness." "Very well, dear father!" returned the Pumpkinhead, meekly. "How glad I am to be a Woggle-Bug!" murmured the Highly Magnified Insect, softly.
For I am determined to learn the truth about the girl Ozma, and unless you tell me all that you know, I will certainly put you to death." "Oh, no!
Don't do that!" exclaimed the Tin Woodman.
It would be an awful thing to kill anyone-even old Mombi!" "But it is merely a threat," returned Glinda.
But I think you will prefer to live." Mombi cast an uneasy glance at the Sorceress, and saw that she was in earnest, and not to be trifled with.
So she replied, slowly: "I will answer your questions." "That is what I expected," said Glinda, pleasantly.
You have chosen wisely, I assure you." She then motioned to one of her Captains, who brought her a beautiful golden casket.
What did he give you for thus serving him?" "He taught me all the magical tricks he knew.
That is the rightful ruler of the Emerald City!" and she pointed her long bony finger straight at the boy. "I!" cried Tip, in amazement.
But you were born a girl, and also a Princess; so you must resume your proper form, that you may become Queen of the Emerald City." "Oh, let Jinjur be the Queen!" exclaimed Tip, ready to cry.
I want to stay a boy, and travel with the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman, and the Woggle-Bug, and Jack-yes! and my friend the Saw-Horse-and the Gump!
I don't want to be a girl!" "Never mind, old chap," said the Tin Woodman, soothingly; "it don't hurt to be a girl, I'm told; and we will all remain your faithful friends just the same.
And, to be honest with you, I've always considered girls nicer than boys." "They're just as nice, anyway," added the Scarecrow, patting Tip affectionately upon the head. "And they are equally good students," proclaimed the Woggle-Bug.
Then he added, hesitatingly, as he turned to Glinda: "I might try it for awhile,-just to see how it seems, you know.
But if I don't like being a girl you must promise to change me into a boy again." "Really," said the Sorceress, "that is beyond my magic.
I never deal in transformations, for they are not honest, and no respectable sorceress likes to make things appear to be what they are not.
Only unscrupulous witches use the art, and therefore I must ask Mombi to effect your release from her charm, and restore you to your proper form.
So the Witch consented to effect the transformation, and preparations for the event were at once made. Glinda ordered her own royal couch to be placed in the center of the tent.
Then she bent over the cushions, reached out her hand, and from the couch arose the form of a young girl, fresh and beautiful as a May morning.
Her eyes sparkled as two diamonds, and her lips were tinted like a tourmaline.
All adown her back floated tresses of ruddy gold, with a slender jeweled circlet confining them at the brow.
The girl herself cast one look into Glinda's bright face, which glowed with pleasure and satisfaction, and then turned upon the others.
Speaking the words with sweet diffidence, she said: "I hope none of you will care less for me than you did before.
Finding her advance thus baffled, Glinda bent her brows in deep thought, while the Woggle-Bug said, in his most positive tone: "We must lay siege to the city, and starve it into submission.
It is the only thing we can do." "Not so," answered the Scarecrow.
Let us go to the Gump at once!" So they passed through the ranks of the army until they came to the place, near the Scarecrow's tent, where the Gump lay.
Glinda and Princess Ozma mounted first, and sat upon the sofas.
And it is said that the women were so tired eating of their husbands' cooking that they all hailed the conquest of Jinjur with Joy.
On promise of good behavior Jinjur was likewise released. Ozma made the loveliest Queen the Emerald City had ever known; and, although she was so young and inexperienced, she ruled her people with wisdom and Justice.
I did not wish to be brought to life, and I am greatly ashamed of my conglomerate personality.
Once I was a monarch of the forest, as my antlers fully prove; but now, in my present upholstered condition of servitude, I am compelled to fly through the air-my legs being of no use to me whatever.
Therefore I beg to be dispersed." So Ozma ordered the Gump taken apart.
The antlered head was again hung over the mantle-piece in the hall, and the sofas were untied and placed in the reception parlors.
When I get home I shall have a new coat of nickel plate; for I have become somewhat marred and scratched lately; and then I shall be glad to have you pay me a visit." "Thank you," replied Ozma.
Some day I may accept the invitation.
But what is to become of the Scarecrow?" "I shall return with my friend the Tin Woodman," said the stuffed one, seriously.
We have decided never to be parted in the future." [Illustration: image309] "And I have made the Scarecrow my Royal Treasurer," explained the Tin Woodman.
For it has occurred to me that it is a good thing to have a Royal Treasurer who is made of money.
What do you think?" "I think," said the little Queen, smiling, "that your friend must be the richest man in all the world." "I am," returned the Scarecrow. "but not on account of my money.
For I consider brains far superior to money, in every way.
[Illustration] The Wonderful Wizard of Oz by L.
Frank Baum This book is dedicated to my good friend & comrade My Wife L.F.B. Contents Introduction Chapter I.
The Council with the Munchkins Chapter III.
How Dorothy Saved the Scarecrow Chapter IV.
The Road Through the Forest Chapter V.
The Rescue of the Tin Woodman Chapter VI.
The Cowardly Lion Chapter VII.
The Journey to the Great Oz Chapter VIII.
The Deadly Poppy Field Chapter IX.
The Queen of the Field Mice Chapter X.
The Guardian of the Gates Chapter XI.
The Emerald City of Oz Chapter XII.
The Search for the Wicked Witch Chapter XIII.
The Winged Monkeys Chapter XV.
The Discovery of Oz, the Terrible Chapter XVI.
The Magic Art of the Great Humbug Chapter XVII.
How the Balloon Was Launched Chapter XVIII.
Away to the South Chapter XIX.
Attacked by the Fighting Trees Chapter XX.
The Dainty China Country Chapter XXI.
The Lion Becomes the King of Beasts Chapter XXII.
The Country of the Quadlings Chapter XXIII.
Glinda The Good Witch Grants Dorothy's Wish Chapter XXIV.
Home Again Introduction Folklore, legends, myths and fairy tales have followed childhood through the ages, for every healthy youngster has a wholesome and instinctive love for stories fantastic, marvelous and manifestly unreal.
It aspires to being a modernized fairy tale, in which the wonderment and joy are retained and the heartaches and nightmares are left out. L.
Frank Baum Chicago, April, 1900. The Wonderful Wizard of Oz Chapter I The Cyclone Dorothy lived in the midst of the great Kansas prairies, with Uncle Henry, who was a farmer, and Aunt Em, who was the farmer's wife.
Their house was small, for the lumber to build it had to be carried by wagon many miles.
There were four walls, a floor and a roof, which made one room; and this room contained a rusty looking cookstove, a cupboard for the dishes, a table, three or four chairs, and the beds.
Uncle Henry and Aunt Em had a big bed in one corner, and Dorothy a little bed in another corner.
Not a tree nor a house broke the broad sweep of flat country that reached to the edge of the sky in all directions.
The sun had baked the plowed land into a gray mass, with little cracks running through it.
Even the grass was not green, for the sun had burned the tops of the long blades until they were the same gray color to be seen everywhere.
The sun and wind had changed her, too.
They had taken the sparkle from her eyes and left them a sober gray; they had taken the red from her cheeks and lips, and they were gray also.
She was thin and gaunt, and never smiled now.
He worked hard from morning till night and did not know what joy was.
He was gray also, from his long beard to his rough boots, and he looked stern and solemn, and rarely spoke. It was Toto that made Dorothy laugh, and saved her from growing as gray as her other surroundings.
Toto was not gray; he was a little black dog, with long silky hair and small black eyes that twinkled merrily on either side of his funny, wee nose.
Toto played all day long, and Dorothy played with him, and loved him dearly. Today, however, they were not playing.
Uncle Henry sat upon the doorstep and looked anxiously at the sky, which was even grayer than usual.
Dorothy stood in the door with Toto in her arms, and looked at the sky too.
Aunt Em was washing the dishes. From the far north they heard a low wail of the wind, and Uncle Henry and Dorothy could see where the long grass bowed in waves before the coming storm.
I'll go look after the stock.
Then he ran toward the sheds where the cows and horses were kept. Aunt Em dropped her work and came to the door.
One glance told her of the danger close at hand. "Quick, Dorothy!" she screamed.
Run for the cellar!" Toto jumped out of Dorothy's arms and hid under the bed, and the girl started to get him.
Aunt Em, badly frightened, threw open the trap door in the floor and climbed down the ladder into the small, dark hole. Dorothy caught Toto at last and started to follow her aunt.
Dorothy felt as if she were going up in a balloon. The north and south winds met where the house stood, and made it the exact center of the cyclone.
After the first few whirls around, and one other time when the house tipped badly, she felt as if she were being rocked gently, like a baby in a cradle. Toto did not like it.
But soon she saw one of his ears sticking up through the hole, for the strong pressure of the air was keeping him up so that he could not fall.
As it was, the jar made her catch her breath and wonder what had happened; and Toto put his cold little nose into her face and whined dismally.
Dorothy sat up and noticed that the house was not moving; nor was it dark, for the bright sunshine came in at the window, flooding the little room.
There were lovely patches of greensward all about, with stately trees bearing rich and luscious fruits.
They were not as big as the grown folk she had always been used to; but neither were they very small.
In fact, they seemed about as tall as Dorothy, who was a well-grown child for her age, although they were, so far as looks go, many years older. Three were men and one a woman, and all were oddly dressed.
They wore round hats that rose to a small point a foot above their heads, with little bells around the brims that tinkled sweetly as they moved.
The hats of the men were blue; the little woman's hat was white, and she wore a white gown that hung in pleats from her shoulders.
Over it were sprinkled little stars that glistened in the sun like diamonds.
The men were dressed in blue, of the same shade as their hats, and wore well-polished boots with a deep roll of blue at the tops.
The men, Dorothy thought, were about as old as Uncle Henry, for two of them had beards.
But the little woman was doubtless much older.
What could the little woman possibly mean by calling her a sorceress, and saying she had killed the Wicked Witch of the East?
I have not killed anything." "Your house did, anyway," replied the little old woman, with a laugh, "and that is the same thing.
See!" she continued, pointing to the corner of the house.
There are her two feet, still sticking out from under a block of wood." Dorothy looked, and gave a little cry of fright.
There, indeed, just under the corner of the great beam the house rested on, two feet were sticking out, shod in silver shoes with pointed toes. "Oh, dear!
Oh, dear!" cried Dorothy, clasping her hands together in dismay.
The house must have fallen on her.
Whatever shall we do?" "There is nothing to be done," said the little woman calmly. "But who was she?" asked Dorothy. "She was the Wicked Witch of the East, as I said," answered the little woman.
She has held all the Munchkins in bondage for many years, making them slave for her night and day.
I am the Witch of the North." "Oh, gracious!" cried Dorothy.
Are you a real witch?" "Yes, indeed," answered the little woman.
But I am a good witch, and the people love me.
There were only four witches in all the Land of Oz, and two of them, those who live in the North and the South, are good witches.
I know this is true, for I am one of them myself, and cannot be mistaken.
Then she looked up and said, "I do not know where Kansas is, for I have never heard that country mentioned before.
But tell me, is it a civilized country?" "Oh, yes," replied Dorothy. "Then that accounts for it.
In the civilized countries I believe there are no witches left, nor wizards, nor sorceresses, nor magicians.
But, you see, the Land of Oz has never been civilized, for we are cut off from all the rest of the world.
Therefore we still have witches and wizards amongst us." "Who are the wizards?" asked Dorothy. "Oz himself is the Great Wizard," answered the Witch, sinking her voice to a whisper.
He is more powerful than all the rest of us together.
But the silver shoes are yours, and you shall have them to wear.
The South is the country of the Quadlings." "I am told," said the third man, "that it is the same at the West.
Her tears seemed to grieve the kind-hearted Munchkins, for they immediately took out their handkerchiefs and began to weep also.
As for the little old woman, she took off her cap and balanced the point on the end of her nose, while she counted "One, two, three" in a solemn voice.
Whether he is a man or not I cannot tell, for I have never seen him." "How can I get there?" asked Dorothy. "You must walk.
It is a long journey, through a country that is sometimes pleasant and sometimes dark and terrible.
Where her lips touched the girl they left a round, shining mark, as Dorothy found out soon after. "The road to the City of Emeralds is paved with yellow brick," said the Witch, "so you cannot miss it.
When you get to Oz do not be afraid of him, but tell your story and ask him to help you.
Good-bye, my dear." The three Munchkins bowed low to her and wished her a pleasant journey, after which they walked away through the trees.
It was gingham, with checks of white and blue; and although the blue was somewhat faded with many washings, it was still a pretty frock.
The girl washed herself carefully, dressed herself in the clean gingham, and tied her pink sunbonnet on her head. She took a little basket and filled it with bread from the cupboard, laying a white cloth over the top.
Then she looked down at her feet and noticed how old and worn her shoes were. "They surely will never do for a long journey, Toto," she said.
We will go to the Emerald City and ask the Great Oz how to get back to Kansas again." She closed the door, locked it, and put the key carefully in the pocket of her dress.
And so, with Toto trotting along soberly behind her, she started on her journey. There were several roads nearby, but it did not take her long to find the one paved with yellow bricks.
Within a short time she was walking briskly toward the Emerald City, her silver shoes tinkling merrily on the hard, yellow road-bed.
There were neat fences at the sides of the road, painted a dainty blue color, and beyond them were fields of grain and vegetables in abundance.
Evidently the Munchkins were good farmers and able to raise large crops.
On the green lawn before it many men and women were dancing.
Blue is the color of the Munchkins, and white is the witch color.
It is better for people to keep away from Oz, unless they have business with him.
But it is a long way to the Emerald City, and it will take you many days.
When she had gone several miles she thought she would stop to rest, and so climbed to the top of the fence beside the road and sat down.
Its head was a small sack stuffed with straw, with eyes, nose, and mouth painted on it to represent a face.
An old, pointed blue hat, that had belonged to some Munchkin, was perched on his head, and the rest of the figure was a blue suit of clothes, worn and faded, which had also been stuffed with straw.
How do you do?" "I'm pretty well, thank you," replied Dorothy politely.
And where are you going?" "My name is Dorothy," said the girl, "and I am going to the Emerald City, to ask the Great Oz to send me back to Kansas." "Where is the Emerald City?" he inquired.
And who is Oz?" "Why, don't you know?" she returned, in surprise. "No, indeed.
You see," he continued confidentially, "I don't mind my legs and arms and body being stuffed, because I cannot get hurt.
If anyone treads on my toes or sticks a pin into me, it doesn't matter, for I can't feel it.
If you will come with me I'll ask Oz to do all he can for you." "Thank you," he answered gratefully. They walked back to the road.
Dorothy helped him over the fence, and they started along the path of yellow brick for the Emerald City. Toto did not like this addition to the party at first.
He smelled around the stuffed man as if he suspected there might be a nest of rats in the straw, and he often growled in an unfriendly way at the Scarecrow. "Don't mind Toto," said Dorothy to her new friend.
He never bites." "Oh, I'm not afraid," replied the Scarecrow.
He can't hurt the straw. Do let me carry that basket for you.
I shall not mind it, for I can't get tired.
Sometimes, indeed, they were broken or missing altogether, leaving holes that Toto jumped across and Dorothy walked around.
As for the Scarecrow, having no brains, he walked straight ahead, and so stepped into the holes and fell at full length on the hard bricks.
If your heads were stuffed with straw, like mine, you would probably all live in the beautiful places, and then Kansas would have no people at all.
I was only made day before yesterday.
What happened in the world before that time is all unknown to me.
Luckily, when the farmer made my head, one of the first things he did was to paint my ears, so that I heard what was going on.
There was another Munchkin with him, and the first thing I heard was the farmer saying, 'How do you like those ears?' "'They aren't straight,'" answered the other. "'Never mind,'" said the farmer.
They are ears just the same,'" which was true enough. "'Now I'll make the eyes,'" said the farmer.
Blue paint is just the color for eyes.' "'I think I'll make the other a little bigger,'" said the farmer.
And when the second eye was done I could see much better than before.
Then he made my nose and my mouth.
But I did not speak, because at that time I didn't know what a mouth was for.
He looks just like a man.' "'Why, he is a man,' said the other, and I quite agreed with him.
The farmer carried me under his arm to the cornfield, and set me up on a tall stick, where you found me.
He and his friend soon after walked away and left me alone. "I did not like to be deserted this way.
So I tried to walk after them. But my feet would not touch the ground, and I was forced to stay on that pole.
It was a lonely life to lead, for I had nothing to think of, having been made such a little while before.
Many crows and other birds flew into the cornfield, but as soon as they saw me they flew away again, thinking I was a Munchkin; and this pleased me and made me feel that I was quite an important person.
By and by an old crow flew near me, and after looking at me carefully he perched upon my shoulder and said: "'I wonder if that farmer thought to fool me in this clumsy manner.
Any crow of sense could see that you are only stuffed with straw.
Then he hopped down at my feet and ate all the corn he wanted.
Brains are the only things worth having in this world, no matter whether one is a crow or a man.' "After the crows had gone I thought this over, and decided I would try hard to get some brains.
It is such an uncomfortable feeling to know one is a fool." "Well," said the girl, "let us go.
And she handed the basket to the Scarecrow. There were no fences at all by the roadside now, and the land was rough and untilled.
Toward evening they came to a great forest, where the trees grew so big and close together that their branches met over the road of yellow brick.
If it required brains to figure it out, I never should have said it." After an hour or so the light faded away, and they found themselves stumbling along in the darkness.
Dorothy could not see at all, but Toto could, for some dogs see very well in the dark; and the Scarecrow declared he could see as well as by day.
Shall we go there?" "Yes, indeed," answered the child.
I am all tired out." So the Scarecrow led her through the trees until they reached the cottage, and Dorothy entered and found a bed of dried leaves in one corner.
She lay down at once, and with Toto beside her soon fell into a sound sleep.
She sat up and looked around her.
They turned and walked through the forest a few steps, when Dorothy discovered something shining in a ray of sunshine that fell between the trees.
They are rusted so badly that I cannot move them at all; if I am well oiled I shall soon be all right again.
I have been holding that axe in the air ever since I rusted, and I'm glad to be able to put it down at last.
Then he said: "Do you suppose Oz could give me a heart?" "Why, I guess so," Dorothy answered.
It would be as easy as to give the Scarecrow brains." "True," the Tin Woodman returned.
Indeed he was obliged to call to her to help him up again. "Why didn't you walk around the hole?" asked the Tin Woodman. "I don't know enough," replied the Scarecrow cheerfully.
My head is stuffed with straw, you know, and that is why I am going to Oz to ask him for some brains." "Oh, I see," said the Tin Woodman.
But, after all, brains are not the best things in the world." "Have you any?" inquired the Scarecrow. "No, my head is quite empty," answered the Woodman.
When I grew up, I too became a wood-chopper, and after my father died I took care of my old mother as long as she lived.
She, on her part, promised to marry me as soon as I could earn enough money to build a better house for her; so I set to work harder than ever.
But the girl lived with an old woman who did not want her to marry anyone, for she was so lazy she wished the girl to remain with her and do the cooking and the housework.
So I went to a tinsmith and had him make me a new leg out of tin.
The leg worked very well, once I was used to it.
But my action angered the Wicked Witch of the East, for she had promised the old woman I should not marry the pretty Munchkin girl.
When I began chopping again, my axe slipped and cut off my right leg.
Again I went to the tinsmith, and again he made me a leg out of tin.
After this the enchanted axe cut off my arms, one after the other; but, nothing daunted, I had them replaced with tin ones.
The Wicked Witch then made the axe slip and cut off my head, and at first I thought that was the end of me.
She thought of a new way to kill my love for the beautiful Munchkin maiden, and made my axe slip again, so that it cut right through my body, splitting me into two halves.
Once more the tinsmith came to my help and made me a body of tin, fastening my tin arms and legs and head to it, by means of joints, so that I could move around as well as ever.
I had now no heart, so that I lost all my love for the Munchkin girl, and did not care whether I married her or not.
There was only one danger-that my joints would rust; but I kept an oil-can in my cottage and took care to oil myself whenever I needed it.
But now and then there came a deep growl from some wild animal hidden among the trees.
But my father went there once, when I was a boy, and he said it was a long journey through a dangerous country, although nearer to the city where Oz dwells the country is beautiful.
With one blow of his paw he sent the Scarecrow spinning over and over to the edge of the road, and then he struck at the Tin Woodman with his sharp claws.
You are nothing but a big coward." "I know it," said the Lion, hanging his head in shame.
But how can I help it?" "I don't know, I'm sure.
It astonished me to see him whirl around so.
Is the other one stuffed also?" "No," said Dorothy, "he's made of tin.
And she helped the Woodman up again. "That's why he nearly blunted my claws," said the Lion.
When they scratched against the tin it made a cold shiver run down my back.
What is that little animal you are so tender of?" "He is my dog, Toto," answered Dorothy. "Is he made of tin, or stuffed?" asked the Lion. "Neither.
He's a-a-a meat dog," said the girl. "Oh!
He's a curious animal and seems remarkably small, now that I look at him.
I suppose I was born that way.
All the other animals in the forest naturally expect me to be brave, for the Lion is everywhere thought to be the King of Beasts.
I learned that if I roared very loudly every living thing was frightened and got out of my way.
Whenever I've met a man I've been awfully scared; but I just roared at him, and he has always run away as fast as he could go.
The King of Beasts shouldn't be a coward," said the Scarecrow. "I know it," returned the Lion, wiping a tear from his eye with the tip of his tail.
For my part, I have no heart; so I cannot have heart disease." "Perhaps," said the Lion thoughtfully, "if I had no heart I should not be a coward." "Have you brains?" asked the Scarecrow. "I suppose so.
Toto did not approve of this new comrade at first, for he could not forget how nearly he had been crushed between the Lion's great jaws.
But after a time he became more at ease, and presently Toto and the Cowardly Lion had grown to be good friends. During the rest of that day there was no other adventure to mar the peace of their journey.
Once, indeed, the Tin Woodman stepped upon a beetle that was crawling along the road, and killed the poor little thing.
This made the Tin Woodman very unhappy, for he was always careful not to hurt any living creature; and as he walked along he wept several tears of sorrow and regret.
These tears ran slowly down his face and over the hinges of his jaw, and there they rusted.
When Dorothy presently asked him a question the Tin Woodman could not open his mouth, for his jaws were tightly rusted together.
He became greatly frightened at this and made many motions to Dorothy to relieve him, but she could not understand.
The Lion was also puzzled to know what was wrong.
But the Scarecrow seized the oil-can from Dorothy's basket and oiled the Woodman's jaws, so that after a few moments he could talk as well as before. "This will serve me a lesson," said he, "to look where I step.
She and Toto ate the last of their bread, and now she did not know what they would do for breakfast. "If you wish," said the Lion, "I will go into the forest and kill a deer for you.
You can roast it by the fire, since your tastes are so peculiar that you prefer cooked food, and then you will have a very good breakfast." "Don't!
Please don't," begged the Tin Woodman.
And the Scarecrow found a tree full of nuts and filled Dorothy's basket with them, so that she would not be hungry for a long time.
She thought this was very kind and thoughtful of the Scarecrow, but she laughed heartily at the awkward way in which the poor creature picked up the nuts.
His padded hands were so clumsy and the nuts were so small that he dropped almost as many as he put in the basket.
But the Scarecrow did not mind how long it took him to fill the basket, for it enabled him to keep away from the fire, as he feared a spark might get into his straw and burn him up.
So he kept a good distance away from the flames, and only came near to cover Dorothy with dry leaves when she lay down to sleep.
They had hardly been walking an hour when they saw before them a great ditch that crossed the road and divided the forest as far as they could see on either side.
It was a very wide ditch, and when they crept up to the edge and looked into it they could see it was also very deep, and there were many big, jagged rocks at the bottom.
Neither can we climb down into this great ditch.
Who will go first?" "I will," declared the Scarecrow, "for, if you found that you could not jump over the gulf, Dorothy would be killed, or the Tin Woodman badly dented on the rocks below.
Then giving a great spring, he shot through the air and landed safely on the other side.
After the Lion had rested they started along the road of yellow brick, silently wondering, each in his own mind, if ever they would come to the end of the woods and reach the bright sunshine again.
I'm terribly afraid of the Kalidahs." "I'm not surprised that you are," returned Dorothy.
They must be dreadful beasts." The Lion was about to reply when suddenly they came to another gulf across the road.
If the Tin Woodman can chop it down, so that it will fall to the other side, we can walk across it easily." "That is a first-rate idea," said the Lion.
One would almost suspect you had brains in your head, instead of straw." The Woodman set to work at once, and so sharp was his axe that the tree was soon chopped nearly through.
Let us cross over." So Dorothy went first, holding Toto in her arms, the Tin Woodman followed, and the Scarecrow came next.
Without stopping an instant the fierce beasts also began to cross the tree.
And the Lion said to Dorothy: "We are lost, for they will surely tear us to pieces with their sharp claws.
But stand close behind me, and I will fight them as long as I am alive." "Wait a minute!" called the Scarecrow.
He had been thinking what was best to be done, and now he asked the Woodman to chop away the end of the tree that rested on their side of the ditch.
To their great joy the trees became thinner the farther they advanced, and in the afternoon they suddenly came upon a broad river, flowing swiftly just before them.
On the other side of the water they could see the road of yellow brick running through a beautiful country, with green meadows dotted with bright flowers and all the road bordered with trees hanging full of delicious fruits.
They were greatly pleased to see this delightful country before them. "How shall we cross the river?" asked Dorothy. "That is easily done," replied the Scarecrow.
Dorothy sat down in the middle of the raft and held Toto in her arms.
Then, I was stuck on a pole in a cornfield, where I could make-believe scare the crows, at any rate.
But surely there is no use for a Scarecrow stuck on a pole in the middle of a river.
I am afraid I shall never have any brains, after all!" Down the stream the raft floated, and the poor Scarecrow was left far behind.
Then the Lion said: "Something must be done to save us.
Then the Lion began to swim with all his might toward the shore.
But I must go now, for my babies are waiting in the nest for me.
When I have brains, I shall probably like them better." "If I only had a heart, I should love them," added the Tin Woodman. "I always did like flowers," said the Lion.
They seem so helpless and frail.
So they kept walking until Dorothy could stand no longer.
Her eyes closed in spite of herself and she forgot where she was and fell among the poppies, fast asleep. "What shall we do?" asked the Tin Woodman. "If we leave her here she will die," said the Lion.
The smell of the flowers is killing us all.
I myself can scarcely keep my eyes open, and the dog is asleep already." It was true; Toto had fallen down beside his little mistress.
They followed the bend of the river, and at last came upon their friend the Lion, lying fast asleep among the poppies.
We must leave him here to sleep on forever, and perhaps he will dream that he has found courage at last." "I'm sorry," said the Scarecrow.
The Lion was a very good comrade for one so cowardly.
Thank you ever so much for saving my life." "Don't speak of it, I beg of you," replied the Woodman.
I have no heart, you know, so I am careful to help all those who may need a friend, even if it happens to be only a mouse." "Only a mouse!" cried the little animal, indignantly.
How did you manage to escape the great Wildcat?
They all bowed so low to the little Queen that they almost stood upon their heads. "This funny tin man," she answered, "killed the Wildcat and saved my life.
So hereafter you must all serve him, and obey his slightest wish." "We will!" cried all the mice, in a shrill chorus.
And then they scampered in all directions, for Toto had awakened from his sleep, and seeing all these mice around him he gave one bark of delight and jumped right into the middle of the group.
Why, he would eat us all up." "Oh, no," declared the Scarecrow; "this Lion is a coward." "Really?" asked the Mouse. "He says so himself," answered the Scarecrow, "and he would never hurt anyone who is our friend.
If you will help us to save him I promise that he shall treat you all with kindness." "Very well," said the Queen, "we trust you.
He fastened it together with wooden pegs and made the four wheels out of short pieces of a big tree trunk.
It was about this time that Dorothy woke from her long sleep and opened her eyes.
She was greatly astonished to find herself lying upon the grass, with thousands of mice standing around and looking at her timidly.
One end of a string was tied around the neck of each mouse and the other end to the truck.
Of course the truck was a thousand times bigger than any of the mice who were to draw it; but when all the mice had been harnessed, they were able to pull it quite easily.
She had grown so fond of the big Lion she was glad he had been rescued. Then the mice were unharnessed from the truck and scampered away through the grass to their homes.
The Queen of the Mice was the last to leave. "If ever you need us again," she said, "come out into the field and call, and we shall hear you and come to your assistance.
How strange it all is!
Everything is green here, while in the country of the Munchkins blue was the favorite color.
The man had hurt his leg, and was lying on the couch in a corner.
Are you sure that Oz will see you?" "Why not?" she replied. "Why, it is said that he never lets anyone come into his presence.
You see, Oz is a Great Wizard, and can take on any form he wishes.
So that some say he looks like a bird; and some say he looks like an elephant; and some say he looks like a cat.
To others he appears as a beautiful fairy, or a brownie, or in any other form that pleases him.
Well, Oz can do anything; so I suppose he will find Kansas for you.
But first you must get to see him, and that will be a hard task; for the Great Wizard does not like to see anyone, and he usually has his own way.
But what do YOU want?" he continued, speaking to Toto.
The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman ate nothing at all.
Yet it was afternoon before they came to the great wall that surrounded the City.
He was clothed all in green, from his head to his feet, and even his skin was of a greenish tint.
And we have been told that Oz is a good Wizard." "So he is," said the green man, "and he rules the Emerald City wisely and well.
But to those who are not honest, or who approach him from curiosity, he is most terrible, and few have ever dared ask to see his face.
I am the Guardian of the Gates, and since you demand to see the Great Oz I must take you to his Palace.
But first you must put on the spectacles." "Why?" asked Dorothy. "Because if you did not wear spectacles the brightness and glory of the Emerald City would blind you.
Even those who live in the City must wear spectacles night and day.
All of them had green glasses in them.
The Guardian of the Gates found a pair that would just fit Dorothy and put them over her eyes.
They looked at Dorothy and her strangely assorted company with wondering eyes, and the children all ran away and hid behind their mothers when they saw the Lion; but no one spoke to them.
Many shops stood in the street, and Dorothy saw that everything in them was green.
Green candy and green pop-corn were offered for sale, as well as green shoes, green hats, and green clothes of all sorts.
When, at last, he came back, Dorothy asked: "Have you seen Oz?" "Oh, no," returned the soldier; "I have never seen him.
But I spoke to him as he sat behind his screen and gave him your message.
It was the sweetest little room in the world, with a soft comfortable bed that had sheets of green silk and a green velvet counterpane.
There was a tiny fountain in the middle of the room, that shot a spray of green perfume into the air, to fall back into a beautifully carved green marble basin.
Oz will send for you tomorrow morning." She left Dorothy alone and went back to the others.
These she also led to rooms, and each one of them found himself lodged in a very pleasant part of the Palace.
Of course this politeness was wasted on the Scarecrow; for when he found himself alone in his room he stood stupidly in one spot, just within the doorway, to wait till morning.
Then he asked me what you looked like, and when I mentioned your silver shoes he was very much interested.
At last I told him about the mark upon your forehead, and he decided he would admit you to his presence." Just then a bell rang, and the green girl said to Dorothy, "That is the signal.
You must go into the Throne Room alone." She opened a little door and Dorothy walked boldly through and found herself in a wonderful place.
It was a big, round room with a high arched roof, and the walls and ceiling and floor were covered with large emeralds set closely together.
It was shaped like a chair and sparkled with gems, as did everything else.
In the center of the chair was an enormous Head, without a body to support it or any arms or legs whatever.
Then the mouth moved, and Dorothy heard a voice say: "I am Oz, the Great and Terrible.
Who are you, and why do you seek me?" It was not such an awful voice as she had expected to come from the big Head; so she took courage and answered: "I am Dorothy, the Small and Meek.
I have come to you for help." The eyes looked at her thoughtfully for a full minute.
Then Oz asked, "What do you wish me to do?" "Send me back to Kansas, where my Aunt Em and Uncle Henry are," she answered earnestly.
I don't like your country, although it is so beautiful.
You have no right to expect me to send you back to Kansas unless you do something for me in return.
In this country everyone must pay for everything he gets.
If you wish me to use my magic power to send you home again you must do something for me first.
Even if I wanted to, how could I kill the Wicked Witch?
I don't care who kills her.
But until she is dead I will not grant your wish.
Follow me." So the Tin Woodman followed him and came to the great Throne Room.
He did not know whether he would find Oz a lovely Lady or a Head, but he hoped it would be the lovely Lady.
For," he said to himself, "if it is the head, I am sure I shall not be given a heart, since a head has no heart of its own and therefore cannot feel for me.
The Beast had a head like that of a rhinoceros, only there were five eyes in its face.
There were five long arms growing out of its body, and it also had five long, slim legs. Thick, woolly hair covered every part of it, and a more dreadful-looking monster could not be imagined.
It was fortunate the Tin Woodman had no heart at that moment, for it would have beat loud and fast from terror.
But being only tin, the Woodman was not at all afraid, although he was much disappointed. "I am Oz, the Great and Terrible," spoke the Beast, in a voice that was one great roar.
Who are you, and why do you seek me?" "I am a Woodman, and made of tin.
Therefore I have no heart, and cannot love.
And if he is the lovely Lady, I shall pretend to spring upon her, and so compel her to do my bidding.
And if he is the great Head, he will be at my mercy; for I will roll this head all about the room until he promises to give us what we desire.
Who are you, and why do you seek me?" And the Lion answered, "I am a Cowardly Lion, afraid of everything.
The Scarecrow stuffed himself with fresh straw and Dorothy put new paint on his eyes that he might see better.
No one has ever destroyed her before, so I naturally thought she would make slaves of you, as she has of the rest.
But take care; for she is wicked and fierce, and may not allow you to destroy her.
Dorothy still wore the pretty silk dress she had put on in the palace, but now, to her surprise, she found it was no longer green, but pure white.
The ribbon around Toto's neck had also lost its green color and was as white as Dorothy's dress. The Emerald City was soon left far behind.
So, as she sat in the door of her castle, she happened to look around and saw Dorothy lying asleep, with her friends all about her.
As soon as he could raise his axe another wolf came up, and he also fell under the sharp edge of the Tin Woodman's weapon.
The little girl was quite frightened when she saw the great pile of shaggy wolves, but the Tin Woodman told her all.
She saw all her wolves lying dead, and the strangers still traveling through her country.
And when the crows saw him they were frightened, as these birds always are by scarecrows, and did not dare to come any nearer.
But the King Crow said: "It is only a stuffed man.
I will peck his eyes out." The King Crow flew at the Scarecrow, who caught it by the head and twisted its neck until it died.
And then another crow flew at him, and the Scarecrow twisted its neck also.
There were forty crows, and forty times the Scarecrow twisted a neck, until at last all were lying dead beside him.
So they started upon their journey once more. The Wicked Witch was so angry when she saw her black bees in little heaps like fine coal that she stamped her foot and tore her hair and gnashed her teeth.
So they marched away until they came near to Dorothy.
This Golden Cap had a charm.
Whoever owned it could call three times upon the Winged Monkeys, who would obey any order they were given.
But no person could command these strange creatures more than three times.
Twice already the Wicked Witch had used the charm of the Cap.
Once was when she had made the Winkies her slaves, and set herself to rule over their country.
The Winged Monkeys had helped her do this.
The second time was when she had fought against the Great Oz himself, and driven him out of the land of the West.
The Winged Monkeys had also helped her in doing this.
Only once more could she use this Golden Cap, for which reason she did not like to do so until all her other powers were exhausted.
The sky was darkened, and a low rumbling sound was heard in the air.
He flew close to the Witch and said, "You have called us for the third and last time.
What do you command?" "Go to the strangers who are within my land and destroy them all except the Lion," said the Wicked Witch.
Bring that beast to me, for I have a mind to harness him like a horse, and make him work." "Your commands shall be obeyed," said the leader.
She stood, with Toto in her arms, watching the sad fate of her comrades and thinking it would soon be her turn.
Then the leader said to the Witch: "We have obeyed you as far as we were able.
The Tin Woodman and the Scarecrow are destroyed, and the Lion is tied up in your yard.
The little girl we dare not harm, nor the dog she carries in her arms.
She looked down at Dorothy's feet, and seeing the Silver Shoes, began to tremble with fear, for she knew what a powerful charm belonged to them.
So the Wicked Witch laughed to herself, and thought, "I can still make her my slave, for she does not know how to use her power.
But, in truth, she did not dare to strike Dorothy, because of the mark upon her forehead.
The child did not know this, and was full of fear for herself and Toto.
Once the Witch struck Toto a blow with her umbrella and the brave little dog flew at her and bit her leg in return.
Sometimes she would cry bitterly for hours, with Toto sitting at her feet and looking into her face, whining dismally to show how sorry he was for his little mistress.
But the child was so proud of her pretty shoes that she never took them off except at night and when she took her bath.
Indeed, the old Witch never touched water, nor ever let water touch her in any way. But the wicked creature was very cunning, and she finally thought of a trick that would give her what she wanted.
She placed a bar of iron in the middle of the kitchen floor, and then by her magic arts made the iron invisible to human eyes.
So that when Dorothy walked across the floor she stumbled over the bar, not being able to see it, and fell at full length.
How should I?" "Well, in a few minutes I shall be all melted, and you will have the castle to yourself.
I have been wicked in my day, but I never thought a little girl like you would ever be able to melt me and end my wicked deeds.
Look out-here I go!" With these words the Witch fell down in a brown, melted, shapeless mass and began to spread over the clean boards of the kitchen floor.
Seeing that she had really melted away to nothing, Dorothy drew another bucket of water and threw it over the mess.
She then swept it all out the door.
After picking out the silver shoe, which was all that was left of the old woman, she cleaned and dried it with a cloth, and put it on her foot again.
So she chose a number of the Winkies who looked as if they knew the most, and they all started away.
They traveled that day and part of the next until they came to the rocky plain where the Tin Woodman lay, all battered and bent.
Some of us are very good tinsmiths," they told her. "Then bring them to me," she said.
At the same time her own tears fell thick and fast at the joy of meeting her old friend again, and these tears did not need to be wiped away.
The next day they called the Winkies together and bade them good-bye.
The Winkies were sorry to have them go, and they had grown so fond of the Tin Woodman that they begged him to stay and rule over them and the Yellow Land of the West.
She tried it on her own head and found that it fitted her exactly.
When the four travelers went in search of the Witch she had seen them coming, and so sent the Winged Monkeys to bring them to her.
It was much harder to find their way back through the big fields of buttercups and yellow daisies than it was being carried.
They knew, of course, they must go straight east, toward the rising sun; and they started off in the right way.
But at noon, when the sun was over their heads, they did not know which was east and which was west, and that was the reason they were lost in the great fields.
They kept on walking, however, and at night the moon came out and shone brightly.
So he put out his tongue and panted and looked at Dorothy as if to ask what they should do next. "Suppose we call the field mice," she suggested.
They could probably tell us the way to the Emerald City." "To be sure they could," cried the Scarecrow.
Why didn't we think of that before?" Dorothy blew the little whistle she had always carried about her neck since the Queen of the Mice had given it to her.
In a few minutes they heard the pattering of tiny feet, and many of the small gray mice came running up to her.
Among them was the Queen herself, who asked, in her squeaky little voice: "What can I do for my friends?" "We have lost our way," said Dorothy.
Can you tell us where the Emerald City is?" "Certainly," answered the Queen; "but it is a great way off, for you have had it at your backs all this time.
Then she noticed Dorothy's Golden Cap, and said, "Why don't you use the charm of the Cap, and call the Winged Monkeys to you?
They will carry you to the City of Oz in less than an hour." "I didn't know there was a charm," answered Dorothy, in surprise.
And she scampered out of sight, with all the mice hurrying after her. Dorothy looked inside the Golden Cap and saw some words written upon the lining.
Perhaps some of us were rather too full of mischief at times, flying down to pull the tails of the animals that had no wings, chasing birds, and throwing nuts at the people who walked in the forest.
But we were careless and happy and full of fun, and enjoyed every minute of the day.
This was many years ago, long before Oz came out of the clouds to rule over this land. "There lived here then, away at the North, a beautiful princess, who was also a powerful sorceress.
All her magic was used to help the people, and she was never known to hurt anyone who was good.
Her name was Gayelette, and she lived in a handsome palace built from great blocks of ruby.
Everyone loved her, but her greatest sorrow was that she could find no one to love in return, since all the men were much too stupid and ugly to mate with one so beautiful and wise.
At last, however, she found a boy who was handsome and manly and wise beyond his years.
One day, just before the wedding, my grandfather was flying out with his band when he saw Quelala walking beside the river.
He was dressed in a rich costume of pink silk and purple velvet, and my grandfather thought he would see what he could do.
Quelala was much too wise not to swim, and he was not in the least spoiled by all his good fortune.
She had all the Winged Monkeys brought before her, and she said at first that their wings should be tied and they should be treated as they had treated Quelala, and dropped in the river.
This Cap had been made for a wedding present to Quelala, and it is said to have cost the princess half her kingdom.
She wondered at the rapid flight of the Monkeys, but was glad the journey was over.
How lucky it was you brought away that wonderful Cap!" Chapter XV The Discovery of Oz, the Terrible The four travelers walked up to the great gate of Emerald City and rang the bell.
Well, that is good news, indeed," said the man.
Afterward they passed on through the gate into the Emerald City.
They thought the Great Wizard would send for them at once, but he did not.
They had no word from him the next day, nor the next, nor the next.
The waiting was tiresome and wearing, and at last they grew vexed that Oz should treat them in so poor a fashion, after sending them to undergo hardships and slavery.
Why do you seek me?" They looked again in every part of the room, and then, seeing no one, Dorothy asked, "Where are you?" "I am everywhere," answered the Voice, "but to the eyes of common mortals I am invisible.
I will now seat myself upon my throne, that you may converse with me.
As it fell with a crash they looked that way, and the next moment all of them were filled with wonder.
I have been making believe." "Making believe!" cried Dorothy.
Are you not a Great Wizard?" "Hush, my dear," he said.
Don't speak so loud, or you will be overheard-and I should be ruined.
I am a humbug." "But this is terrible," said the Tin Woodman.
It was a great mistake my ever letting you into the Throne Room.
Usually I will not see even my subjects, and so they believe I am something terrible." "But, I don't understand," said Dorothy, in bewilderment.
I can throw the sound of my voice wherever I wish, so that you thought it was coming out of the Head.
Here are the other things I used to deceive you.
He showed the Scarecrow the dress and the mask he had worn when he seemed to be the lovely Lady.
And the Tin Woodman saw that his terrible Beast was nothing but a lot of skins, sewn together, with slats to keep their sides out.
As for the Ball of Fire, the false Wizard had hung that also from the ceiling.
When I grew up I became a ventriloquist, and at that I was very well trained by a great master.
I can imitate any kind of a bird or beast.
Here he mewed so like a kitten that Toto pricked up his ears and looked everywhere to see where she was.
It went way up above the clouds, so far that a current of air struck it and carried it many, many miles away.
But I found myself in the midst of a strange people, who, seeing me come from the clouds, thought I was a great Wizard.
The Emerald City was built a great many years ago, for I was a young man when the balloon brought me here, and I am a very old man now.
You are learning something every day.
A baby has brains, but it doesn't know much.
I cannot tell you how to use them, however; you must find that out for yourself." "Oh, thank you-thank you!" cried the Scarecrow.
I'll find a way to use them, never fear!" "But how about my courage?" asked the Lion anxiously. "You have plenty of courage, I am sure," answered Oz. "All you need is confidence in yourself.
There is no living thing that is not afraid when it faces danger.
The True courage is in facing danger when you are afraid, and that kind of courage you have in plenty." "Perhaps I have, but I'm scared just the same," said the Lion.
It makes most people unhappy.
If you only knew it, you are in luck not to have a heart." "That must be a matter of opinion," said the Tin Woodman.
For my part, I will bear all the unhappiness without a murmur, if you will give me the heart." "Very well," answered Oz meekly.
Come to me tomorrow and you shall have a heart.
Give me two or three days to consider the matter and I'll try to find a way to carry you over the desert.
In the meantime you shall all be treated as my guests, and while you live in the Palace my people will wait upon you and obey your slightest wish.
There is only one thing I ask in return for my help-such as it is.
You must keep my secret and tell no one I am a humbug." They agreed to say nothing of what they had learned, and went back to their rooms in high spirits.
I am going to Oz to get my brains at last.
When I return I shall be as other men are." "I have always liked you as you were," said Dorothy simply. "It is kind of you to like a Scarecrow," he replied.
But surely you will think more of me when you hear the splendid thoughts my new brain is going to turn out.
You are quite welcome to take my head off, as long as it will be a better one when you put it on again." So the Wizard unfastened his head and emptied out the straw.
Then he entered the back room and took up a measure of bran, which he mixed with a great many pins and needles.
His head was quite bulged out at the top with brains. "How do you feel?" she asked. "I feel wise indeed," he answered earnestly.
So he walked to the Throne Room and knocked at the door. "Come in," called Oz, and the Woodman entered and said, "I have come for my heart." "Very well," answered the little man.
But I shall have to cut a hole in your breast, so I can put your heart in the right place.
I hope it won't hurt you." "Oh, no," answered the Woodman.
I shall not feel it at all." So Oz brought a pair of tinsmith's shears and cut a small, square hole in the left side of the Tin Woodman's breast.
Then, going to a chest of drawers, he took out a pretty heart, made entirely of silk and stuffed with sawdust. "Isn't it a beauty?" he asked. "It is, indeed!" replied the Woodman, who was greatly pleased.
How can I help being a humbug," he said, "when all these people make me do things that everybody knows can't be done?
It was easy to make the Scarecrow and the Lion and the Woodman happy, because they imagined I could do anything.
The Scarecrow told them there were wonderful thoughts in his head; but he would not say what they were because he knew no one could understand them but himself.
You see, when I came to this country it was in a balloon.
You also came through the air, being carried by a cyclone.
So I believe the best way to get across the desert will be through the air.
I have plenty of silk in the Palace, so it will be no trouble to make the balloon.
Hot air isn't as good as gas, for if the air should get cold the balloon would come down in the desert, and we should be lost." "We!" exclaimed the girl.
Are you going with me?" "Yes, of course," replied Oz. "I am tired of being such a humbug.
First there was a strip of light green silk, then a strip of dark green and then a strip of emerald green; for Oz had a fancy to make the balloon in different shades of the color about them.
The news spread rapidly throughout the city and everyone came to see the wonderful sight. Oz ordered the balloon carried out in front of the Palace, and the people gazed upon it with much curiosity.
While I am gone the Scarecrow will rule over you.
Hurry up, or the balloon will fly away." "I can't find Toto anywhere," replied Dorothy, who did not wish to leave her little dog behind.
Toto had run into the crowd to bark at a kitten, and Dorothy at last found him.
I want to go, too!" "I can't come back, my dear," called Oz from the basket.
But the people remembered him lovingly, and said to one another: "Oz was always our friend.
And she also felt sorry at losing Oz, and so did her companions. The Tin Woodman came to her and said: "Truly I should be ungrateful if I failed to mourn for the man who gave me my lovely heart.
I should like to cry a little because Oz is gone, if you will kindly wipe away my tears, so that I shall not rust." "With pleasure," she answered, and brought a towel at once.
Then the Tin Woodman wept for several minutes, and she watched the tears carefully and wiped them away with the towel.
Finally he said: "Why not call the Winged Monkeys, and ask them to carry you over the desert?" "I never thought of that!" said Dorothy joyfully.
What do you wish?" "I want you to fly with me to Kansas," said Dorothy. But the Monkey King shook his head. "That cannot be done," he said.
We belong to this country alone, and cannot leave it.
There has never been a Winged Monkey in Kansas yet, and I suppose there never will be, for they don't belong there.
We shall be glad to serve you in any way in our power, but we cannot cross the desert.
Good-bye." And with another bow, the Monkey King spread his wings and flew away through the window, followed by all his band. Dorothy was ready to cry with disappointment.
She is the most powerful of all the Witches, and rules over the Quadlings.
There are wild beasts in the woods, and a race of queer men who do not like strangers to cross their country.
I am really a wild beast, you know.
Besides, Dorothy will need someone to protect her." "That is true," agreed the Woodman.
My axe may be of service to her; so I also will go with her to the Land of the South." "When shall we start?" asked the Scarecrow. "Are you going?" they asked, in surprise. "Certainly.
If it wasn't for Dorothy I should never have had brains. She lifted me from the pole in the cornfield and brought me to the Emerald City.
So my good luck is all due to her, and I shall never leave her until she starts back to Kansas for good and all." "Thank you," said Dorothy gratefully.
You are all very kind to me.
But I should like to start as soon as possible." "We shall go tomorrow morning," returned the Scarecrow.
When the Guardian of the Gate saw them again he wondered greatly that they could leave the beautiful City to get into new trouble.
I cannot tell you how grateful I am." "Don't try, my dear," he answered.
We should like to keep you with us, but if it is your wish to return to Kansas, I hope you will find a way.
He then opened the gate of the outer wall, and they walked forth and started upon their journey. The sun shone brightly as our friends turned their faces toward the Land of the South.
They were all in the best of spirits, and laughed and chatted together.
Dorothy was once more filled with the hope of getting home, and the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman were glad to be of use to her.
I have lost much flesh since I lived there, and now I am anxious for a chance to show the other beasts how courageous I have grown." They now turned and took a last look at the Emerald City.
Oz had not kept the promise he made her, but he had done his best, so she forgave him.
As he said, he was a good man, even if he was a bad Wizard. The first day's journey was through the green fields and bright flowers that stretched about the Emerald City on every side.
They slept that night on the grass, with nothing but the stars over them; and they rested very well indeed. In the morning they traveled on until they came to a thick wood.
He walked up to another tree, as he spoke, but its branches immediately seized him and tossed him back again. "This is strange," exclaimed Dorothy.
When a big branch bent down to seize him the Woodman chopped at it so fiercely that he cut it in two.
At once the tree began shaking all its branches as if in pain, and the Tin Woodman passed safely under it. "Come on!" he shouted to the others.
They all ran forward and passed under the tree without injury, except Toto, who was caught by a small branch and shaken until he howled.
Then, to their surprise, they found before them a high wall which seemed to be made of white china.
When we have climbed over it, we shall know what is on the other side." After a time the ladder was finished.
It looked clumsy, but the Tin Woodman was sure it was strong and would answer their purpose.
The Scarecrow waked Dorothy and the Lion and Toto, and told them that the ladder was ready.
The Scarecrow climbed up the ladder first, but he was so awkward that Dorothy had to follow close behind and keep him from falling off.
Scattered around were many houses made entirely of china and painted in the brightest colors. These houses were quite small, the biggest of them reaching only as high as Dorothy's waist.
Of course they took pains not to light on his head and get the pins in their feet.
See what you have done!
My cow has broken her leg, and I must take her to the mender's shop and have it glued on again.
What do you mean by coming here and frightening my cow?" "I'm very sorry," returned Dorothy.
Please forgive us." But the pretty milkmaid was much too vexed to make any answer.
She picked up the leg sulkily and led her cow away, the poor animal limping on three legs.
But the china girl cried out: "Don't chase me!
He has broken himself so often that he is mended in a hundred places, and doesn't look at all pretty.
Can't you see these are strangers, and should be treated with respect?" "Well, that's respect, I expect," declared the Clown, and immediately stood upon his head. "Don't mind Mr. Joker," said the Princess to Dorothy.
He is considerably cracked in his head, and that makes him foolish." "Oh, I don't mind him a bit," said Dorothy.
But you are so beautiful," she continued, "that I am sure I could love you dearly.
Won't you let me carry you back to Kansas, and stand you on Aunt Em's mantel?
I could carry you in my basket." "That would make me very unhappy," answered the china Princess.
You see, here in our country we live contentedly, and can talk and move around as we please.
But whenever any of us are taken away our joints at once stiffen, and we can only stand straight and look pretty.
They are all so brittle!" "They are, indeed," said the Scarecrow, "and I am thankful I am made of straw and cannot be easily damaged.
It was difficult to walk without falling into muddy holes, for the grass was so thick that it hid them from sight.
However, by carefully picking their way, they got safely along until they reached solid ground.
Never have I seen a more beautiful place." "It seems gloomy," said the Scarecrow. "Not a bit of it," answered the Lion.
I should like to live here all my life.
See how soft the dried leaves are under your feet and how rich and green the moss is that clings to these old trees.
Dorothy and Toto and the Lion lay down to sleep, while the Woodman and the Scarecrow kept watch over them as usual. When morning came, they started again.
Before they had gone far they heard a low rumble, as of the growling of many wild animals.
Toto whimpered a little, but none of the others was frightened, and they kept along the well-trodden path until they came to an opening in the wood, in which were gathered hundreds of beasts of every variety.
There were tigers and elephants and bears and wolves and foxes and all the others in the natural history, and for a moment Dorothy was afraid.
The biggest of the tigers came up to the Lion and bowed, saying: "Welcome, O King of Beasts!
It is a most tremendous monster, like a great spider, with a body as big as an elephant and legs as long as a tree trunk.
It has eight of these long legs, and as the monster crawls through the forest he seizes an animal with a leg and drags it to his mouth, where he eats it as a spider does a fly.
Its legs were quite as long as the tiger had said, and its body covered with coarse black hair.
It had a great mouth, with a row of sharp teeth a foot long; but its head was joined to the pudgy body by a neck as slender as a wasp's waist.
This gave the Lion a hint of the best way to attack the creature, and as he knew it was easier to fight it asleep than awake, he gave a great spring and landed directly upon the monster's back.
Then, with one blow of his heavy paw, all armed with sharp claws, he knocked the spider's head from its body.
But he had no arms at all, and, seeing this, the Scarecrow did not fear that so helpless a creature could prevent them from climbing the hill.
You have still the right to command them once more." "Very well," she answered, and putting on the Golden Cap she uttered the magic words.
There was field upon field of ripening grain, with well-paved roads running between, and pretty rippling brooks with strong bridges across them.
The fences and houses and bridges were all painted bright red, just as they had been painted yellow in the country of the Winkies and blue in the country of the Munchkins.
Take the road to the South and you will soon reach it." Thanking the good woman, they started afresh and walked by the fields and across the pretty bridges until they saw before them a very beautiful Castle.
Her hair was a rich red in color and fell in flowing ringlets over her shoulders.
Then he said, "The Winkies were very kind to me, and wanted me to rule over them after the Wicked Witch died.
If I could only get back to this forest, I would pass my life very happily there." "My third command to the Winged Monkeys," said Glinda, "shall be to carry you to your forest.
But you have not yet told me how to get back to Kansas." "Your Silver Shoes will carry you over the desert," replied Glinda.
If you had known their power you could have gone back to your Aunt Em the very first day you came to this country." "But then I should not have had my wonderful brains!" cried the Scarecrow.
I might have passed my whole life in the farmer's cornfield." "And I should not have had my lovely heart," said the Tin Woodman.
And one of the most curious things about them is that they can carry you to any place in the world in three steps, and each step will be made in the wink of an eye.
Then she kissed the Tin Woodman, who was weeping in a way most dangerous to his joints.
Uncle Henry was milking the cows in the barnyard, and Toto had jumped out of her arms and was running toward the barn, barking furiously. Dorothy stood up and found she was in her stocking-feet.
Where in the world did you come from?" "From the Land of Oz," said Dorothy gravely.
And here is Toto, too. And oh, Aunt Em!
I'm so glad to be at home again!
NREN for All: Insurmountable Opportunity c.
1993 Jean Armour Polly Manager of Network Development and User Training NYSERNet, Inc. jpolly@nysernet.org This was originally published in the February 1, 1993 issue of Library Journal (volume 118, n.
Was she information-poor due to her physical location, far from the resources of large cities?
Beyond that, how authoritative is the information in the digital collection, and how do we know for sure it came from a legitimate source?
Will her family be able to afford it? If not, will she be able to dial in from her school?
Her Post Office? The local feed store?
A kiosk at K-Mart? At the American Library Association's 1992 convention in San Francisco, Gloria Steinem said "the public library is the last refuge of those without modems.
I'm sure she meant that the library will act as information provider for those unable to get their information using a home computer's telecommunications connections.
But it could be taken another way.
Books and other library resources should be provided for the interest, information, and enlightenment of all people of the community the library serves.
Materials should not be excluded because of the origin, background, or views of those contributing to their creation. No problem here.
The Internet's resources are as diverse as their creators, from nations all over the world.
Every community can find something of interest on the Internet. 2.
Libraries should provide materials and information presenting all points of view on current and historical issues. Materials should not be proscribed or removed because of partisan or doctrinal disapproval. 3.
Libraries should challenge censorship in the fulfillment of their responsibility to provide information and enlightenment. 4.
Libraries should cooperate with all persons and groups concerned with resisting abridgment of free expression and free access to ideas. Again, global electronic communication allows discussion and debate in an instant electronic forum.
There is no better "reality check" than this. 5.
A person's right to use a library should not be denied or abridged because of origin, age, background, or views. In a public library, the little girl won't be barred from using the Internet because of her age.
The ALA interpretation of the above right states: "Librarians and governing bodies should not resort to age restrictions on access to library resources in an effort to avoid actual or anticipated objections from parents or anyone else.
The mission, goals, and objectives of libraries do not authorize librarians or governing bodies to assume, abrogate, or overrule the rights and responsibilities of parents or legal guardians.
Librarians and governing bodies cannot assume the role of parents or the functions of parental authority in the private relationship between parent and child.
Librarians and governing bodies have a public and professional obligation to provide equal access to all library resources for all library users." 6.
Public libraries will offer access to all comers, regardless of their status. Further, as part of the Interpretation of the Library Bill of Rights, this statement appears: "The U.S.
Supreme Court has recognized that `the right to receive ideas follows ineluctably from the sender's First Amendment right to send them. . . .
More importantly, the right to receive ideas is a necessary predicate to the recipient's meaningful exercise of his own rights such as speech, press, and political freedom' Board of Education, Island Trees Union Free School District No. 26 v.
Taxes, state aid derived from taxes, federal aid derived from taxes, and private funds all pay for the "free" services at public libraries.
Libraries are veritable temples of learning, intellectual freedom, and confidentiality. However, most public libraries lack what computer experts call infrastructure.
If there are computers, they may be out of date.
Money to update equipment, hire staff, and buy training is out of the question.
Public libraries face slashed budgets, staff layoffs, reduced hours, and cutbacks in services. Many of these drawbacks are noted in the recent study by Dr. Charles R.
McClure, called Public Libraries and the Internet/NREN: New Challenges, New Opportunities. Public librarians were surveyed about their attitudes toward NREN in interviews and focus groups.
They longed for someone else to create a pilot project to demonstrate the Internet's usefulness, or lack thereof, for public library users. The study describes several scenarios for public libraries as the NREN evolves.
Some may simply choose to ignore the sweeping technological changes in information transfer.
They may continue to exist by purveying high-demand items and traditional services, but they may find it increasingly difficult to maintain funding levels as the rest of the world looks elsewhere for their information and reference needs.
But resources will be reallocated from collections and less-visible services to support their involvement in the network.
In its networked role, the library can serve as a central point of contact as an electronic navigator and intermediary in linking individuals to electronic information resources- regardless of type or physical location.
The bill also funds development of prototype 'digital libraries' around the country." The public needs NREN because 300 baud used to be fast and low- resolution graphics used to be pretty.
I need a video clip of the explosion, a sound bite of Richard Feynman explaining the O-ring problem, some neat graphics from NASA, oh, and maybe some virtual reality mock-ups of the shuttle interior.
Can you put it all on this floppy disk for me, I know it's only 15 minutes before you close but, gee, I had band practice.
A promising future awaits the public library that can be proactive rather than reactive to technology. Information technology is driving the future, librarians should be at the wheel.
SHORT TITLE. This Act may be cited as the "Information Infrastructure and Technology Act of 1992". SEC. 7.
APPLICATIONS FOR LIBRARIES. (a) DIGITAL LIBRARIES.--In accordance with the Plan developed under section 701 of the National Science and Technology Policy, Organization and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C.
6601 et seq.), as added by section 3 of this Act, the National Science Foundation, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, and other appropriate agencies shall develop technologies for "digital libraries" of electronic information.
Moen Public Libraries and the INTERNET/NREN: New Challenges, New Opportunities. 1992.
Copies of this 38-page study may be ordered at $15 each from the Publication Office, School of Information Studies, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY 13244-4100 315/443-2911. The U.S.
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (NCLIS) has issued a Report to the Office of Science and Technology Policy on Library and Information Services' Roles in the National Research and Education Network.
The 25-page document, released in late November, 1992, summarizes the results of an open forum held in Washington during the previous summer. Topics addressed include funding NREN, charging for use, commercial access, protection of intellectual property, and security and privacy.
The report "focuses on fulfilling the potential for extending the services and effectiveness of libraries and information services for all Americans through high-speed networks and electronic databases.
A limited number of copies are available from NCLIS at 111 18th St., NW, Suite 310, Washington, D.C.
20036 202/254-3100. Grand Challenges 1993: High Performance Computing and Communications.
The "Teal Book" (because of its color) "provides a far-sighted vision for investment in technology but also recognizes the importance of human resources and applications that serve major national needs.
20550 Carl Kadie operates an excellent electronic resource of documents pertaining to academic freedom, the Library Bill of Rights, and similar policy statements.
Those with Internet access may use File Transfer Protocol (FTP) to ftp.eff.org (192.88.144.4) Login as anonymous, use your network address as the password.
The documents are in the /pub/academic directory. Further Reading Kehoe, Brendan. (1993).
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall. The first edition is available for free from many FTP sites. (see below) This version has about 30 pages of new material and corrects various minor errors in the first edition.
Index. $22.00 To ftp Zen: ftp.uu.net [137.39.1.9] in /inet/doc ftp.cs.toronto.edu [128.100.3.6] in pub/zen ftp.cs.widener.edu [147.31.254.132] in pub/zen as zen-1.0.tar.Z, zen-1.0.dvi, and zen-1.0.PS ftp.sura.net [128.167.254.179] in pub/nic as zen-1.0.PS Krol, Ed. (1992).
The Whole Internet User's Guide & Catalog. Sebastopol, CA: O'Reilly & Associates. Comprehensive guide to how the network works, the domain name system, acceptable use, security, and other issues.
Chapters on telnet/remote login, File Transfer Protocol, and electronic mail explain error messages, special situations, and other arcana.
Archie, Gopher, NetNews, WAIS, WWW, and troubleshooting each enjoy a chapter in this well-written book. Appendices contain info on how to get connected in addition to a glossary.
ISBN 1-56592-025-2. $24.95 LaQuey, Tracy, & Ryer, J.
ISBN 0-201-62224-6 $10.95 Polly, Jean Armour.
An enthusiastic tour of selected Internet resources, electronic serials, listserv discussion groups, service providers, manuals and guides and more.
Available via anonymous FTP from NYSERNET.org (192.77.173.2) in the directory /pub/resources/guides surfing.2.0.txt. Tennant, Roy, Ober, J., & Lipow, A.
Berkeley, CA: Library Solutions Press. A cookbook to run your own Internet training sessions.
Real-world examples. Foreword by Cliff Lynch.
Library Solutions Institute and Press 2137 Oregon Street Berkeley, CA 94705 Phone:(510) 841-2636 Fax: (510) 841-2926 ISBN: 1-882208-01-3 $45.00
Aladdin and the Magic Lamp There once lived a poor tailor, who had a son called Aladdin, a careless, idle boy who would do nothing but play all day long in the streets with little idle boys like himself.
This so grieved the father that he died; yet, in spite of his mother's tears and prayers, Aladdin did not mend his ways.
One day, when he was playing in the streets as usual, a stranger asked him his age, and if he was not the son of Mustapha the tailor.
I am, sir," replied Aladdin; "but he died a long while ago.
On this the stranger, who was a famous African magician, fell on his neck and kissed him saying: "I am your uncle, and knew you from your likeness to my brother.
Go to your mother and tell her I am coming.
Aladdin ran home and told his mother of his newly found uncle. "Indeed, child," she said, "your father had a brother, but I always thought he was dead.
However, she prepared supper, and bade Aladdin seek his uncle, who came laden with wine and fruit.
He fell down and kissed the place where Mustapha used to sit, bidding Aladdin's mother not to be surprised at not having seen him before, as he had been forty years out of the country.
He then turned to Aladdin, and asked him his trade, at which the boy hung his head, while his mother burst into tears.
On learning that Aladdin was idle and would learn no trade, he offered to take a shop for him and stock it with merchandise.
We will go no farther," said his uncle.
I will show you something wonderful; only do you gather up sticks while I kindle a fire.
When it was lit the magician threw on it a powder he had about him, at the same time saying some magical words.
The earth trembled a little in front of them, disclosing a square flat stone with a brass ring in the middle to raise it by.
Aladdin tried to run away, but the magician caught him and gave him a blow that knocked him down.
What have I done, uncle?" he said piteously; whereupon the magician said more kindly: "Fear nothing, but obey me.
Beneath this stone lies a treasure which is to be yours, and no one else may touch it, so you must do exactly as I tell you.
At the word treasure Aladdin forgot his fears, and grasped the ring as he was told, saying the names of his father and grandfather.
The stone came up quite easily, and some steps appeared.
Go down," said the magician; "at the foot of those steps you will find an open door leading into three large halls.
Tuck up your gown and go through them without touching anything, or you will die instantly.
These halls lead into a garden of fine fruit trees.
Walk on till you come to niche in a terrace where stands a lighted lamp.
Pour out the oil it contains, and bring it me.
The magician cried out in a great hurry: "Make haste and give me the lamp.
This Aladdin refused to do until he was out of the cave.
Though he alone knew where to find it, he could only receive it from the hand of another.
He had picked out the foolish Aladdin for this purpose, intending to get the lamp and kill him afterwards. For two days Aladdin remained in the dark, crying and lamenting.
At last he clasped his hands in prayer, and in so doing rubbed the ring, which the magician had forgotten to take from him.
Immediately an enormous and frightful genie rose out of the earth, saying: "What wouldst thou with me?
I am the Slave of the Ring, and will obey thee in all things.
Aladdin fearlessly replied, "Deliver me from this place!" whereupon the earth opened, and he found himself outside.
As soon as his eyes could bear the light he went home, but fainted on the threshold.
When he came to himself he told his mother what had passed, and showed her the lamp and the fruits he had gathered in the garden, which were in reality precious stones.
He then asked for some food. "Alas! child," she said, "I have nothing in the house, but I have spun a little cotton and will go sell it.
Aladdin bade her keep her cotton, for he would sell the lamp instead.
As it was very dirty, she began to rub it, that it might fetch a higher price.
Instantly a hideous genie appeared, and asked what she would have.
She fainted away, but Aladdin, snatching the lamp, said boldly: "Fetch me something to eat!
The genie returned with a silver bowl, twelve silver plates containing rich meats, two silver cups, and two bottles of wine.
Aladdin's mother, when she came to herself, said: "Whence comes this splendid feast?
Ask not, but eat," replied Aladdin.
So they sat at breakfast till it was dinner-time, and Aladdin told his mother about the lamp.
She begged him to sell it, and have nothing to do with devils.
No," said Aladdin, "since chance hath made us aware of its virtues, we will use it, and the ring likewise, which I shall always wear on my finger.
When they had eaten all the genie had brought, Aladdin sold one of the silver plates, and so on until none were left.
Aladdin was seized by a desire to see her face, which was very difficult, as she always went veiled.
He hid himself behind the door of the bath, and peeped through a chink. The Princess lifted her veil as she went in, and looked so beautiful that Aladdin fell in love with her at first sight.
He went home so changed that his mother was frightened.
He told her he loved the Princess so deeply he could not live without her, and meant to ask her in marriage of her father.
His mother, on hearing this, burst out laughing, but Aladdin at last prevailed upon her to go before the Sultan and carry his request.
She fetched a napkin and laid in it the magic fruits from the enchanted garden, which sparkled and shone like the most beautiful jewels.
She took these with her to please the Sultan, and set out, trusting in the lamp.
The Grand Vizier and the lords of council had just gone in as she entered the hall and placed herself in front of the Sultan.
He, however, took no notice of her.
She went every day for a week, and stood in the same place.
When the council broke up on the sixth day the Sultan said to his Vizier: "I see a certain woman in the audience-chamber every day carrying something in a napkin.
Call her next time, that I may find out what she wants.
Next day, at a sign from the vizier, she went up to the foot of the throne and remained kneeling until the Sultan said to her: "Rise, good woman, and tell me what you want.
She hesitated, so the Sultan sent away all but the Vizier, and bade her speak freely, promising to forgive her beforehand for anything she might say.
She then told him of her son's violent love for the Princess.
I prayed him to forget her," she said, "but in vain; he threatened to do some desperate deed if I refused to go and ask your Majesty for the hand of the Princess.
Now I pray you to forgive not me alone, but my son Aladdin.
The Sultan asked her kindly what she had in the napkin, whereupon she unfolded the jewels and presented them.
He was thunderstruck, and turning to the vizier, said: "What sayest thou?
Ought I not to bestow the Princess on one who values her at such a price?
The Vizier, who wanted her for his own son, begged the Sultan to withhold her for three months, in the course of which he hoped his son could contrive to make him a richer present.
Do you not know," was the answer, "that the son of the Grand Vizier is to marry the Sultan's daughter tonight?
Breathless she ran and told Aladdin, who was overwhelmed at first, but presently bethought him of the lamp.
He rubbed it and the genie appeared, saying: "What is thy will?
Aladdin replied: "The Sultan, as thou knowest, has broken his promise to me, and the vizier's son is to have the Princess.
My command is that to-night you bring hither the bride and bridegroom.
Master, I obey," said the genie.
Aladdin then went to his chamber, where, sure enough, at midnight the genie transported the bed containing the vizier's son and the Princess.
Take this new-married man," he said, "and put him outside in the cold, and return at daybreak.
Whereupon the genie took the vizier's son out of bed, leaving Aladdin with the Princess.
Fear nothing," Aladdin said to her; "you are my wife, promised to me by your unjust father, and no harm will come to you.
The Princess was too frightened to speak, and passed the most miserable night of her life, while Aladdin lay down beside her and slept soundly.
At the appointed hour the genie fetched in the shivering bridegroom, laid him in his place, and transported the bed back to the palace. Presently the Sultan came to wish his daughter good-morning.
The unhappy Vizier's son jumped up and hid himself, while the Princess would not say a word and was very sorrowful.
The Sultan sent her mother to her, who said: "How comes it, child, that you will not speak to your father?
The Princess sighed deeply, and at last told her mother how, during the night, the bed had been carried into some strange house, and what had passed there.
She then confessed all, bidding him ask the Vizier's son if it were not so.
The Sultan told the Vizier to ask his son, who owned the truth, adding that, dearly as he loved the Princess, he had rather die than go through another such fearful night, and wished to be separated from her.
His wish was granted, and there was an end of feasting and rejoicing. When the three months were over, Aladdin sent his mother to remind the Sultan of his promise.
She stood in the same place as before, and the Sultan, who had forgotten Aladdin, at once remembered him, and sent for her.
The mother of Aladdin bowed low and went home, thinking all was lost.
She gave Aladdin the message adding, "He may wait long enough for your answer!
Not so long, mother, as you think," her son replied.
I would do a great deal more than that for the Princess.
He summoned the genie, and in a few moments the eighty slaves arrived, and filled up the small house and garden.
Aladdin made them to set out to the palace, two by two, followed by his mother.
He hesitated no longer, but said: "Good woman, return and tell your son that I wait for him with open arms.
She lost no time in telling Aladdin, bidding him make haste.
But Aladdin first called the genie.
I want a scented bath," he said, "a richly embroidered habit, a horse surpassing the Sultan's, and twenty slaves to attend me.
Besides this, six slaves, beautifully dressed, to wait on my mother; and lastly, ten thousand pieces of gold in ten purses.
No sooner said then done.
Aladdin mounted his horse and passed through the streets, the slaves strewing gold as they went. Those who had played with him in his childhood knew him not, he had grown so handsome.
When the sultan saw him he came down from his throne, embraced him, and led him into a hall where a feast was spread, intending to marry him to the Princess that very day.
But Aladdin refused, saying, "I must build a palace fit for her," and took his leave.
Once home, he said to the genie: "Build me a palace of the finest marble, set with jasper, agate, and other precious stones.
The Sultan sent musicians with trumpets and cymbals to meet them, so that the air resounded with music and cheers.
She was taken to the Princess, who saluted her and treated her with great honour.
At night the princess said good-bye to her father, and set out on the carpet for Aladdin's palace, with his mother at her side, and followed by the hundred slaves.
She was charmed at the sight of Aladdin, who ran to receive her.
Princess," he said, "blame your beauty for my boldness if I have displeased you.
She told him that, having seen him, she willingly obeyed her father in this matter.
After the wedding had taken place, Aladdin led her into the hall, where a feast was spread, and she supped with him, after which they danced till midnight. Next day Aladdin invited the Sultan to see the palace.
On entering the hall with the four-and-twenty windows with their rubies, diamonds and emeralds, he cried, "It is a world's wonder!
There is only one thing that surprises me.
Was it by accident that one window was left unfinished?
No, sir, by design," returned Aladdin.
I wished your Majesty to have the glory of finishing this palace.
The Sultan was pleased, and sent for the best jewelers in the city.
He showed them the unfinished window, and bade them fit it up like the others.
Sir," replied their spokesman, "we cannot find jewels enough.
The Sultan had his own fetched, which they soon used, but to no purpose, for in a month's time the work was not half done.
Aladdin knowing that their task was vain, bade them undo their work and carry the jewels back, and the genie finished the window at his command.
The Sultan was surprised to receive his jewels again, and visited Aladdin, who showed him the window finished.
The Sultan embraced him, the envious vizier meanwhile hinting that it was the work of enchantment. Aladdin had won the hearts of the people by his gentle bearing.
He knew that the poor tailor's son could only have accomplished this by means of the lamp, and travelled night and day till he reached the capital of China, bent on Aladdin's ruin.
As he passed through the town he heard people talking everywhere about a marvelous palace.
Forgive my ignorance," he asked, "what is the palace you speak of?
Have you not heard of Prince Aladdin's palace," was the reply, "the greatest wonder in the world?
I will direct you if you have a mind to see it.
The magician thanked him who spoke, and having seen the palace knew that it had been raised by the Genie of the Lamp, and became half mad with rage.
He determined to get hold of the lamp, and again plunge Aladdin into the deepest poverty. Unluckily, Aladdin had gone a-hunting for eight days, which gave the magician plenty of time.
He bought a dozen lamps, put them into a basket, and went to the palace, crying: "New lamps for old!" followed by a jeering crowd.
Another slave, hearing this, said, "There is an old one on the cornice there which he can have.
Now this was the magic lamp, which Aladdin had left there, as he could not take it out hunting with him.
The Princess, not knowing its value, laughingly bade the slave take it and make the exchange.
She went and said to the magician: "Give me a new lamp for this.
He snatched it and bade the slave take her choice, amid the jeers of the crowd.
Little he cared, but left off crying his lamps, and went out of the city gates to a lonely place, where he remained till nightfall, when he pulled out the lamp and rubbed it.
He sent for the Vizier and asked what had become of the palace.
The Vizier looked out too, and was lost in astonishment.
He again put it down to enchantment, and this time the Sultan believed him, and sent thirty men on horseback to fetch Aladdin back in chains.
They met him riding home, bound him, and forced him to go with them on foot.
The people, however, who loved him, followed, armed, to see that he came to no harm.
He was carried before the Sultan, who ordered the executioner to cut off his head.
The executioner made Aladdin kneel down, bandaged his eyes, and raised his scimitar to strike.
At that instant the Vizier, who saw that the crowd had forced their way into the courtyard and were scaling the walls to rescue Aladdin, called to the executioner to stay his hand.
The people, indeed, looked so threatening that the Sultan gave way and ordered Aladdin to be unbound, and pardoned him in the sight of the crowd. Aladdin now begged to know what he had done.
False wretch!" said the Sultan, "come hither," and showed him from the window the place where his palace had stood.
Aladdin was so amazed he could not say a word. "Where is your palace and my daughter?" demanded the Sultan.
For the first I am not so deeply concerned, but my daughter I must have, and you must find her or lose your head.
Aladdin begged for forty days in which to find her, promising if he failed to return to suffer death at the Sultan's pleasure.
His prayer was granted, and he went forth sadly from the Sultan's presence. For three days he wandered about like a madman, asking everyone what had become of his palace, but they only laughed and pitied him.
He came to the banks of a river, and knelt down to say his prayers before throwing himself in. In doing so he rubbed the ring he still wore.
The genie he had seen in the cave appeared, and asked his will.
Save my life, genie," said Aladdin, "and bring my palace back.
That is not in my power," said the genie; "I am only the Slave of the Ring; you must ask him of the lamp.
Even so," said Aladdin, "but thou canst take me to the palace, and set me down under my dear wife's window.
She, however, treated him so harshly that he dared not live there altogether.
As she was dressing, one of her women looked out and saw Aladdin.
The Princess ran and opened the window, and at the noise she made, Aladdin looked up.
Alas," she said, "I am the innocent cause of our sorrows," and told him of the exchange of the lamp.
Now I know," cried Aladdin, "that we have to thank the African magician for this!
He carries it about with him," said the Princess.
I know, for he pulled it out of his breast to show me.
He wishes me to break my faith with you and marry him, saying that you were beheaded by my father's command.
He is forever speaking ill of you, but I only reply by my tears.
If I persist, I doubt not but he will use violence.
Aladdin comforted her, and left her for a while.
He changed clothes with the first person he met in the town, and having bought a certain powder returned to the Princess, who let him in by a little side door.
Put on your most beautiful dress," he said to her, "and receive the magician with smiles, leading him to believe that you have forgotten me.
Invite him to sup with you, and say you wish to taste the wine of his country.
He will go for some, and while he is gone I will tell you what to do.
She listened carefully to Aladdin and when he left her, arrayed herself gaily for the first time since she left China.
The magician flew to his cellar, and the Princess put the powder Aladdin had given her in her cup.
When he returned she asked him to drink her health in the wine of Africa, handing him her cup in exchange for his, as a sign she was reconciled to him.
Before drinking the magician made her a speech in praise of her beauty, but the Princess cut him short, saying: "Let us drink first, and you shall say what you will afterwards.
She set her cup to her lips and kept it there, while the magician drained his to the dregs and fell back lifeless.
He hastened thither, and Aladdin received him in the hall of the four-and-twenty windows, with the Princess at his side. Aladdin told him what had happened, and showed him the dead body of the magician, that he might believe.
He travelled to China to avenge his brother's death, and went to visit a pious woman called Fatima, thinking she might be of use to him.
He entered her cell and clapped a dagger to her breast, telling her to rise and do his bidding on pain of death.
He changed clothes with her, coloured his face like hers, put on her veil, and murdered her, that she might tell no tales.
Then he went towards the palace of Aladdin, and all the people, thinking he was the holy woman, gathered round him, kissing his hands and begging his blessing.
When he got to the palace there was such a noise going on round him that the Princess bade her slave look out the window and ask what was the matter.
The slave said it was the holy woman, curing people by her touch of their ailments, whereupon the Princess, who had long desired to see Fatima, sent for her.
On coming to the Princess the magician offered up a prayer for her health and prosperity.
When he had done the Princess made him sit by her, and begged him to stay with her always.
The false Fatima, who wished for nothing better, consented, but kept his veil down for fear of discovery.
The princess showed him the hall, and asked him what he thought of it.
It is truly beautiful," said the false Fatima.
In my mind it wants but one thing.
And what is that?" said the Princess.
If that is all," replied Aladdin, "you shall soon be happy." He left her and rubbed the lamp, and when the genie appeared commanded him to bring a roc's egg.
You and your wife and your palace deserve to be burnt to ashes, but that this request does not come from you, but from the brother of the African magician, whom you destroyed.
He is now in your palace disguised as the holy woman, whom he murdered.
He it was who put that wish into your wife's head.
Take care of yourself, for he means to kill you.
So saying, the genie disappeared. Aladdin went back to the Princess, saying his head ached, and requesting that the holy Fatima should be fetched to lay her hands on it.
But when the magician came near, Aladdin, seizing his dagger, pierced him to the heart.
What have you done?" cried the Princess. "You have killed the holy woman!
Not so," replied Aladdin, "but a wicked magician," and told her of how she had been deceived. After this Aladdin and his wife lived in peace.
He succeeded the Sultan when he died, and reigned for many years, leaving behind him a long line of kings.
To his great baptism flocked With awe the regions round, and with them came From Nazareth the son of Joseph deemed To the flood Jordan-came as then obscure, Unmarked, unknown.
But him the Baptist soon Descried, divinely warned, and witness bore As to his worthier, and would have resigned To him his heavenly office.
All come, And he himself among them was baptized- Not thence to be more pure, but to receive The testimony of Heaven, that who he is Thenceforth the nations may not doubt.
Yet this not all To which my spirit aspired.
Is it not written (For I discern thee other than thou seem'st), Man lives not by bread only, but each word Proceeding from the mouth of God, who fed 350 Our fathers here with manna?
Why should I? they to me Never did wrong or violence.
The happy place Imparts to thee no happiness, no joy- Rather inflames thy torment, representing Lost bliss, to thee no more communicable; So never more in Hell than when in Heaven.
But now, Full grown to man, acknowledged, as I hear, By John the Baptist, and in public shewn, Son owned from Heaven by his Father's voice, I looked for some great change.
To honour? no; But trouble, as old Simeon plain foretold, That to the fall and rising he should be Of many in Israel, and to a sign Spoken against-that through my very soul 90 A sword shall pierce.
This is my favoured lot, My exaltation to afflictions high! Afflicted I may be, it seems, and blest! I will not argue that, nor will repine. But where delays he now?
Some great intent Conceals him.
When twelve years he scarce had seen, I lost him, but so found as well I saw He could not lose himself, but went about His Father's business.
But these haunts Delight not all.
What woman will you find, Though of this age the wonder and the fame, On whom his leisure will voutsafe an eye 210 Of fond desire?
Four times ten days I have passed Wandering this woody maze, and human food Nor tasted, nor had appetite.
That fast To virtue I impute not, or count part Of what I suffer here.
If nature need not, Or God support nature without repast, 250 Though needing, what praise is it to endure? But now I feel I hunger; which declares Nature hath need of what she asks.
Yet God Can satisfy that need some other way, Though hunger still remain.
Satan replied. "Tell me, if food were now before thee set, 320 Wouldst thou not eat?
Thereafter as I like the giver," answered Jesus.
Why should that Cause thy refusal?" said the subtle Fiend. "Hast thou not right to all created things? Owe not all creatures, by just right, to thee Duty and service, nor to stay till bid, But tender all their power?
Nor mention I Meats by the law unclean, or offered first To idols-those young Daniel could refuse; Nor proffered by an enemy-though who 330 Would scruple that, with want oppressed?
Behold, Nature ashamed, or, better to express, Troubled, that thou shouldst hunger, hath purveyed From all the elements her choicest store, To treat thee as beseems, and as her Lord With honour.
Sit down and eat." To whom thus Jesus temperately replied:- "Said'st thou not that to all things I had right? And who withholds my power that right to use?
But I see What I can do or offer is suspect. Of these things others quickly will dispose, 400 Whose pains have earned the far-fet spoil.
This attracts the soul, Governs the inner man, the nobler part; That other o'er the body only reigns, And oft by force-which to a generous mind So reigning can be no sincere delight.
30 Thy years are ripe, and over-ripe.
70 They err who count it glorious to subdue By conquest far and wide, to overrun Large countries, and in field great battles win, Great cities by assault.
I seek not mine, but His Who sent me, and thereby witness whence I am." To whom the Tempter, murmuring, thus replied:- "Think not so slight of glory, therein least Resembling thy great Father.
And think'st thou to regain Thy right by sitting still, or thus retiring? So did not Machabeus.
He indeed Retired unto the Desert, but with arms; And o'er a mighty king so oft prevailed That by strong hand his family obtained, Though priests, the crown, and David's throne usurped, With Modin and her suburbs once content.
Who best Can suffer best can do, best reign who first Well hath obeyed-just trial ere I merit My exaltation without change or end. But what concerns it thee when I begin My everlasting Kingdom?
200 Know'st thou not that my rising is thy fall, And my promotion will be thy destruction?" To whom the Tempter, inly racked, replied:- "Let that come when it comes.
It shall be my task To render thee the Parthian at dispose, Choose which thou wilt, by conquest or by league.
Where was it then For Israel, or for David, or his throne, When thou stood'st up his tempter to the pride Of numbering Israel-which cost the lives 410 of threescore and ten thousand Israelites By three days' pestilence?
Then embassies thou shew'st From nations far and nigh!
What honour that, But tedious waste of time, to sit and hear So many hollow compliments and lies, Outlandish flatteries?
Then proceed'st to talk Of the Emperor, how easily subdued, How gloriously.
If given to thee, By thee how fairly is the Giver now Repaid!
But gratitude in thee is lost Long since.
Wert thou so void of fear or shame As offer them to me, the Son of God- 190 To me my own, on such abhorred pact, That I fall down and worship thee as God? Get thee behind me!
The childhood shews the man, 220 As morning shews the day.
Who, therefore, seeks in these True wisdom finds her not, or, by delusion Far worse, her false resemblance only meets, 320 An empty cloud.
330 Or, if I would delight my private hours With music or with poem, where so soon As in our native language can I find That solace?
The Wilderness For thee is fittest place: I found thee there, And thither will return thee.
Darkness now rose, As daylight sunk, and brought in louring Night, Her shadowy offspring, unsubstantial both, Privation mere of light and absent day.
Ill wast thou shrouded then, O patient Son of God, yet only stood'st 420 Unshaken!
Desist (thou art discerned, And toil'st in vain), nor me in vain molest." To whom the Fiend, now swoln with rage, replied:- "Then hear, O Son of David, virgin-born!
I to thy Father's house Have brought thee, and highest placed: highest is best. Now shew thy progeny; if not to stand, Cast thyself down.
Like an autumnal star, Or lightning, thou shalt fall from Heaven, trod down 620 Under his feet.
For proof, ere this thou feel'st Thy wound (yet not thy last and deadliest wound) By this repulse received, and hold'st in Hell No triumph; in all her gates Abaddon rues Thy bold attempt.
Hereafter learn with awe To dread the Son of God.
On thy glorious work Now enter, and begin to save Mankind." Thus they the Son of God, our Saviour meek, Sung victor, and, from heavenly feast refreshed, Brought on his way with joy.
He, unobserved, Home to his mother's house private returned.
For to be possessed of a vigorous mind is not enough; the prime requisite is rightly to apply it.
I know how very liable we are to delusion in what relates to ourselves, and also how much the judgments of our friends are to be suspected when given in our favor.
They who set themselves to give precepts must of course regard themselves as possessed of greater skill than those to whom they prescribe; and if they err in the slightest particular, they subject themselves to censure.
But as soon as I had finished the entire course of study, at the close of which it is customary to be admitted into the order of the learned, I completely changed my opinion.
For I found myself involved in so many doubts and errors, that I was convinced I had advanced no farther in all my attempts at learning, than the discovery at every turn of my own ignorance.
And yet I was studying in one of the most celebrated schools in Europe, in which I thought there must be learned men, if such were anywhere to be found.
And, in fine, our age appeared to me as flourishing, and as fertile in powerful minds as any preceding one.
For to hold converse with those of other ages and to travel, are almost the same thing.
On the other hand, when too much time is occupied in traveling, we become strangers to our native country; and the over curious in the customs of the past are generally ignorant of those of the present.
It is thus quite certain that the constitution of the true religion, the ordinances of which are derived from God, must be incomparably superior to that of every other.
I firmly believed that in this way I should much better succeed in the conduct of my life, than if I built only upon old foundations, and leaned upon principles which, in my youth, I had taken upon trust.
For although I recognized various difficulties in this undertaking, these were not, however, without remedy, nor once to be compared with such as attend the slightest reformation in public affairs.
Large bodies, if once overthrown, are with great difficulty set up again, or even kept erect when once seriously shaken, and the fall of such is always disastrous.
I have never contemplated anything higher than the reformation of my own opinions, and basing them on a foundation wholly my own.
And although my own satisfaction with my work has led me to present here a draft of it, I do not by any means therefore recommend to every one else to make a similar attempt.
Those whom God has endowed with a larger measure of genius will entertain, perhaps, designs still more exalted; but for the many I am much afraid lest even the present undertaking be more than they can safely venture to imitate.
The single design to strip one's self of all past beliefs is one that ought not to be taken by every one.
I was thus led to infer that the ground of our opinions is far more custom and example than any certain knowledge.
By these considerations I was induced to seek some other method which would comprise the advantages of the three and be exempt from their defects.
Besides, the three preceding maxims were founded singly on the design of continuing the work of self-instruction.
Nor could I have proceeded on such opinions without scruple, had I supposed that I should thereby forfeit any advantage for attaining still more accurate, should such exist.
And yet, that it may be determined whether the foundations that I have laid are sufficiently secure, I find myself in a measure constrained to advert to them.
Thus I perceived that doubt, inconstancy, sadness, and such like, could not be found in God, since I myself would have been happy to be free from them.
For how do we know that the thoughts which occur in dreaming are false rather than those other which we experience when awake, since the former are often not less vivid and distinct than the latter?
And it is evident that it is not less repugnant that falsity or imperfection, in so far as it is imperfection, should proceed from God, than that truth or perfection should proceed from nothing.
It was my design to comprise in it all that, before I set myself to write it, I thought I knew of the nature of material objects.
I was not, however, disposed, from these circumstances, to conclude that this world had been created in the manner I described; for it is much more likely that God made it at the first such as it was to be.
And, because the blood which thus enters into the heart passes through these two pouches called auricles, it thence happens that their motion is the contrary of that of the heart, and that when it expands they contract.
In the next place, the consistency of the coats of which the arterial vein and the great artery are composed, sufficiently shows that the blood is impelled against them with more force than against the veins.
Such persons will look upon this body as a machine made by the hands of God, which is incomparably better arranged, and adequate to movements more admirable than is any machine of human invention.
Again, by means of these two tests we may likewise know the difference between men and brutes.
For if such were the case, since they are endowed with many organs analogous to ours, they could as easily communicate their thoughts to us as to their fellows.
Thereupon, turning over in my mind I the objects that had ever been presented to my senses I freely venture to state that I have never observed any which I could not satisfactorily explain by the principles had discovered.
But though I recognize my extreme liability to error, and scarce ever trust to the first thoughts which occur to me, yet-the experience I have had of possible objections to my views prevents me from anticipating any profit from them.
Besides this, the habit which they will acquire, by seeking first what is easy, and then passing onward slowly and step by step to the more difficult, will benefit them more than all my instructions.
The Scarlet Pimpernel by Baroness Orczy Contents I.
They were traitors to the people of course, all of them, men, women, and children, who happened to be descendants of the great men who since the Crusades had made the glory of France: her old _noblesse_.
Every afternoon before the gates closed and the market carts went out in procession by the various barricades, some fool of an aristo endeavoured to evade the clutches of the Committee of Public Safety.
In various disguises, under various pretexts, they tried to slip through the barriers which were so well guarded by citizen soldiers of the Republic.
Sergeant Bibot especially at the West Gate had a wonderful nose for scenting an aristo in the most perfect disguise.
Then, of course, the fun began.
The work had been very hot lately.
Those cursed aristos were becoming terrified and tried their hardest to slip out of Paris: men, women and children, whose ancestors, even in remote ages, had served those traitorous Bourbons, were all traitors themselves and right food for the guillotine.
The paper always contained a brief notice that the band of meddlesome Englishmen were at work, and it was always signed with a device drawn in red-a little star-shaped flower, which we in England call the Scarlet Pimpernel.
We've all heard of this meddlesome Englishman, this accursed Scarlet Pimpernel.
He won't get through _my_ gate, _morbleu!_ unless he be the devil himself.
But Grospierre was a fool.
The market carts were going through the gates; there was one laden with casks, and driven by an old man, with a boy beside him.
Has a cart gone through?' he asks of Grospierre, breathlessly.
Yes,' says Grospierre, 'not half an hour ago.
And you have let them escape,' shouts the captain furiously.
You'll go to the guillotine for this, citoyen sergeant! that cart held concealed the _ci-devant_ Duc de Chalis and all his family!
Aye! and the driver was none other than that cursed Englishman, the Scarlet Pimpernel.'" A howl of execration greeted this tale.
Truly that Englishman must be the devil himself. The sun was sinking low down in the west.
They were mostly well known to Bibot, as they went through his gate twice every day on their way to and from the town.
It was great fun to see the aristos arriving for the reception of Madame la Guillotine, and the places close by the platform were very much sought after.
Bibot, during the day, had been on duty on the Place.
The people were terrified of these two horrible curses, the two maladies which nothing could cure, and which were the precursors of an awful and lonely death.
They hung about the barricades, silent and sullen for a while, eyeing one another suspiciously, avoiding each other as if by instinct, lest the plague lurked already in their midst.
Presently, as in the case of Grospierre, a captain of the guard appeared suddenly.
The two little kitchen-maids bustled around, eager to help, hot and panting, with cotton sleeves well tucked up above the dimpled elbows, and giggling over some private jokes of their own, whenever Miss Sally's back was turned for a moment.
And old Jemima, stolid in temper and solid in bulk, kept up a long and subdued grumble, while she stirred the stock-pot methodically over the fire. "What ho!
At the end of the eighteenth, in the year of grace 1792, it had not yet gained that notoriety and importance which a hundred additional years and the craze of the age have since bestowed upon it.
And is your gran'mother a-dyin' an' you wantin' to see the pore soul afore she'm gone!
I never see'd such a mighty rushin'!" A chorus of good-humoured laughter greeted this witticism, which gave the company there present food for many jokes, for some considerable time.
Sally now seemed in less of a hurry to get back to her pots and pans.
But "The Fisherman's Rest" was something more than a rendezvous for these humble folk.
An' I've been in these parts nigh on sixty years." "Aye! you wouldn't rec'llect the first three years of them sixty, Mr. Jellyband," quietly interposed Mr. Hempseed.
Pore folks like us is of no account up there in Lunnon, I knows that, and it's not often as I do complain.
As the Scriptures say-" "That's quite right, Mr. 'Empseed," retorted Jellyband, "and as I says, what can you 'xpect?
Let 'em murder!' says Mr. Pitt.
I don't 'old not with interferin' in other folks' ways.
And now look at 'im!-'E made friends with some o' them frog-eaters, 'obnobbed with them just as if they was Englishmen, and not just a lot of immoral, God-forsaking furrin' spies.
At one table two customers-gentlemen apparently by their clothes-had pushed aside their half-finished game of dominoes, and had been listening for some time, and evidently with much amusement at Mr. Jellyband's international opinions.
How did they accomplish that now, think you?" "Lud! sir, I suppose they talked 'im over.
He burst into an uproarious fit of laughter, which was soon echoed by those who happened to be in his debt. "Hahaha! hohoho! hehehe!
He laughed in every key, did my worthy host, and laughed until his sides ached, and his eyes streamed.
At me! hark at that!
Why, I wouldn't so much as drink a glass of ale with one o' them murderin' Frenchmen, and nothin' 'd make me change my opinions.
A good sportsman, a lively companion, a courteous, well-bred man of the world, with not too much brains to spoil his temper, he was a universal favourite in London drawing-rooms or in the coffee-rooms of village inns.
Lud love you, they are all right, my lord," retorted Jellyband; "don't you be afraid.
I wouldn't have spoken, only I knew we were among friends.
That gentleman over there is as true and loyal a subject of King George as you are yourself, my lord, saving your presence.
He is but lately arrived in Dover, and is settling down in business in these parts." "In business?
Sir Percy's skipper was here just now.
Everyone was curious to see my Lord Antony's swell friends from over the water.
Miss Sally cast one or two quick glances at the little bit of mirror which hung on the wall, and worthy Mr. Jellyband bustled out in order to give the first welcome himself to his distinguished guests.
Only the two strangers in the corner did not participate in the general excitement.
Mr. Hempseed, touching his forelock, was quietly vacating the seat in the hearth.
Where is that pretty wench of yours and the dish of soup?
Zooks, man, while you stand there gaping at the ladies, they will faint with hunger." "One moment! one moment, my lord," said Jellyband, as he threw open the door that led to the kitchen and shouted lustily: "Sally!
The Vicomte de Tournay was scarce nineteen, a beardless boy, on whom the terrible tragedies which were being enacted in his own country had made but little impression.
Jellyband was bustling round, filling glasses and putting chairs straight.
Sally waited, ready to hand round the soup.
May God protect him, and give him victory over his enemies." Everyone rose and drank this toast in silence.
The fate of the unfortunate King of France, then a prisoner of his own people, seemed to cast a gloom even over Mr. Jellyband's pleasant countenance. "And to M. le Comte de Tournay de Basserive," said Lord Antony, merrily.
Your fame, I assure you, has spread throughout the whole of France.
I was torn between my duty to him, and to them.
They refused to go without me . . . and you and your friends assured me so solemnly that my husband would be safe.
But, oh! now that I am here-amongst you all-in this beautiful, free England-I think of him, flying for his life, hunted like a poor beast . . . in such peril. . . .
I should not have left him . . .
I should not have left him! . . ." The poor woman had completely broken down; fatigue, sorrow and emotion had overmastered her rigid, aristocratic bearing.
She was crying gently to herself, whilst Suzanne ran up to her and tried to kiss away her tears. Lord Antony and Sir Andrew had said nothing to interrupt the Comtesse whilst she was speaking.
Ah! of course, you must have a leader.
And I did not think of that before!
But tell me where is he?
Why! what a droll name!
What is the Scarlet Pimpernel, Monsieur?" She looked at Sir Andrew with eager curiosity.
The young man's face had become almost transfigured.
They say in Paris that every time a royalist escapes to England that devil, Foucquier-Tinville, the Public Prosecutor, receives a paper with that little flower dessinated in red upon it. . . .
Yes?" "Yes, that is so," assented Lord Antony. "Then he will have received one such paper to-day?" "Undoubtedly." "Oh!
I wonder what he will say!" said Suzanne, merrily.
I have heard that the picture of that little red flower is the only thing that frightens him." "Faith, then," said Sir Andrew, "he will have many more opportunities of studying the shape of that small scarlet flower." "Ah!
To her it seemed preposterous that these young men and their great leader, all of them rich, probably well-born, and young, should for no other motive than sport, run the terrible risks, which she knew they were constantly doing.
Their nationality, once they had set foot in France, would be no safeguard to them.
Anyone found harbouring or assisting suspected royalists would be ruthlessly condemned and summarily executed, whatever his nationality might be.
There was that woman, Marguerite St. Just, for instance.
She denounced the Marquis de St. Cyr and all his family to the awful tribunal of the Terror." "Marguerite St. Just?" said Lord Antony, as he shot a quick and apprehensive glance across at Sir Andrew.
Marguerite St. Just?-Surely . . ." "Yes!" replied the Comtesse, "surely you know her.
Know Lady Blakeney-the most fashionable woman in London-the wife of the richest man in England?
You say that she actually denounced the Marquis de St. Cyr?
Why should she have done such a thing?
Surely there must be some mistake-" "No mistake is possible, Monsieur," rejoined the Comtesse, coldly. "Marguerite St. Just's brother is a noted republican.
There was some talk of a family feud between him and my cousin, the Marquis de St. Cyr.
The St. Justs' are quite plebeian, and the republican government employs many spies.
I assure you there is no mistake. . . .
You had not heard this story?" "Faith, Madame, I did hear some vague rumours of it, but in England no one would credit it. . . .
Suzanne looked sad and silent; Sir Andrew fidgeted uneasily with his fork, whilst the Comtesse, encased in the plate-armour of her aristocratic prejudices, sat, rigid and unbending, in her straight-backed chair.
I am as wet as a herring! _Dieu!_ has anyone ever seen such a contemptible climate?" "Suzanne, come with me at once-I wish it," said the Comtesse, peremptorily. "Oh!
Her whole face lighted up with additional brightness, as she stretched out both arms towards the young girl. "Why! if that isn't my little Suzanne over there. _Pardieu_, little citizeness, how came you to be in England?
And Madame too!" She went up effusively to them both, with not a single touch of embarrassment in her manner or in her smile.
Lord Tony and Sir Andrew watched the little scene with eager apprehension.
The latter, rigid, erect and defiant, with one hand still upon her daughter's arm, seemed the very personification of unbending pride.
Sir Andrew, did you ever see such an unpleasant person?
The mimicry was so perfect, the tone of the voice so accurately reproduced, that both the young men joined in a hearty cheerful "Bravo!" "Ah!
Those friends who knew, laughed to scorn the idea that Marguerite St. Just had married a fool for the sake of the worldly advantages with which he might endow her.
His father, the late Sir Algernon Blakeney, had had the terrible misfortune of seeing an idolized young wife become hopelessly insane after two years of happy married life.
Percy had just been born when the late Lady Blakeney fell a prey to the terrible malady which in those days was looked upon as hopelessly incurable and nothing short of a curse of God upon the entire family.
Sir Algernon took his afflicted young wife abroad, and there presumably Percy was educated, and grew up between an imbecile mother and a distracted father, until he attained his majority.
The fashionable circles of the time were ready to receive them both with open arms.
Sir Percy was rich, his wife was accomplished, the Prince of Wales took a very great liking to them both.
Within six months they were the acknowledged leaders of fashion and of style.
Sir Percy's coats were the talk of the town, his inanities were quoted, his foolish laugh copied by the gilded youth at Almack's or the Mall.
As for his marriage with "the cleverest woman in Europe," well! the inevitable came with sure and rapid footsteps.
No one pitied him, since his fate was of his own making.
He was always irreproachably dressed, and wore the exaggerated "Incroyable" fashions, which had just crept across from Paris to England, with the perfect good taste innate in an English gentleman.
How do, Ffoulkes?" he said, recognising the two young men and shaking them by the hand.
Zounds, my dear fellow," he added, smothering a slight yawn, "did you ever see such a beastly day?
It apparently succeeded in that, for, echoing the laugh, he rejoined placidly- "La, m'dear! you don't say so.
I cannot ask your pardon for my mother; what she does is right in my eyes.
Don't you think so, Tony-eh?
I vow I can't speak the French lingo like that.
What?" "Nay, I'll vouch for that!" rejoined Marguerite.
Sir Percy has a British accent you could cut with a knife." "Monsieur," interposed the Vicomte earnestly, and in still more broken English, "I fear you have not understand.
Demmit, young man, what's the good of your sword to me?" What the Vicomte thought and felt at that moment, when that long-limbed Englishman treated him with such marked insolence, might fill volumes of sound reflections. . . .
He laughed his own pleasant and inane laugh, and burying his slender, long hands into the capacious pockets of his overcoat, he said leisurely- "A duel?
La! is that what he meant?
Odd's fish! you are a bloodthirsty young ruffian.
Do you want to make a hole in a law-abiding man? . . . As for me, sir, I never fight duels," he added, as he placidly sat down and stretched his long, lazy legs out before him.
She laughed a mocking little laugh, which, however, did not in the least disturb her husband's placid equanimity.
The British turkey has had the day," she said.
Clever woman my wife, sir. . . .
You will find _that_ out if you live long enough in England." "Sir Percy is in the right, Vicomte," here interposed Lord Antony, laying a friendly hand on the young Frenchman's shoulder.
You, mi'lor', are our protector.
If I have done wrong, I withdraw myself." "Aye, do!" rejoined Blakeney, with a long sigh of satisfaction, "withdraw yourself over there.
Demmed excitable little puppy," he added under his breath.
Tis not the _men_ who dislike the shape of my nose." "Afraid be demmed!
Do you impugn my bravery, Madame?
I don't patronise the ring for nothing, do I, Tony?
La, Madame, you honour me!
I have made my wife laugh!-The cleverest woman in Europe! . . .
Odd's fish, we must have a bowl on that!" and he tapped vigorously on the table near him. "Hey!
Here, Jelly!" Harmony was once more restored.
Mr. Jellyband, with a mighty effort, recovered himself from the many emotions he had experienced within the last half hour. "A bowl of punch, Jelly, hot and strong, eh?" said Sir Percy.
The wits that have just made a clever woman laugh must be whetted!
Hasten, my good Jelly!" "Nay, there is no time, Sir Percy," interposed Marguerite.
The skipper will be here directly and my brother must get on board, or the _Day Dream_ will miss the tide." "Time, m'dear?
Think you, Tony," he added, turning towards the Vicomte, "that that jackanapes of yours will join us in a glass?
Both Lord Antony and Sir Andrew felt that Lady Blakeney could not altogether be in tune with them at that moment.
Her love for her brother, Armand St. Just, was deep and touching in the extreme.
Marguerite Blakeney stepped on to the porch and looked out to sea.
Silhouetted against the ever-changing sky, a graceful schooner, with white sails set, was gently dancing in the breeze.
I can't believe that you are going, dear!
The gentle sea-breeze blew Marguerite's hair about her face, and sent the ends of her soft lace fichu waving round her, like a white and supple snake.
She clung to him suddenly with strong, almost motherly, passion: "Don't go, Armand!" she begged; "don't go back!
Armand!" she said quaintly, "I sometimes wish you had not so many lofty virtues. . . .
I assure you little sins are far less dangerous and uncomfortable.
But you _will_ be prudent?" she added earnestly. "As far as possible . . .
I promise you." "Remember, dear, I have only you . . . to . . . to care for me. . . ." "Nay, sweet one, you have other interests now.
Percy is very good . . ." "Nay!" he interrupted energetically, "I will distress myself on your account, my Margot.
Listen, dear, I have not spoken of these things to you before; something always seemed to stop me when I wished to question you.
But, somehow, I feel as if I could not go away and leave you now without asking you one question. . . .
Yes, he does know. . . .
He seemed to worship me with a curious intensity of concentrated passion, which went straight to my heart.
I had never loved anyone before, as you know, and I was four-and-twenty then-so I naturally thought that it was not in my nature to love.
A clever man would naturally have other interests, an ambitious man other hopes. . . .
I thought that a fool would worship, and think of nothing else.
Granted that Percy Blakeney was dull-witted, but in his slow-going mind, there would still be room for that ineradicable pride of a descendant of a long line of English gentlemen.
She had been young, misguided, ill-advised perhaps.
Life and love have such strange vagaries.
Could it be that with the waning of her husband's love, Marguerite's heart had awakened with love for him?
Strange extremes meet in love's pathway: this woman, who had had half intellectual Europe at her feet, might perhaps have set her affections on a fool.
Marguerite was gazing out towards the sunset.
She would not spoil these last few sadly-sweet moments by speaking about herself.
She supposed that, in his own stupid, good-natured way, he may have understood that she would wish to remain alone, while those white sails disappeared into the vague horizon, so many miles away.
He, whose notions of propriety and decorum were supersensitive, had not suggested even that an attendant should remain within call.
Marguerite was grateful to her husband for all this; she always tried to be grateful to him for his thoughtfulness, which was constant, and for his generosity, which really was boundless.
Loved that inane fop! whose thoughts seemed unable to soar beyond the tying of a cravat or the new cut of a coat.
One day Armand, the respectful, timid lover, ventured on sending a small poem-enthusiastic, ardent, passionate-to the idol of his dreams.
St. Cyr and his kind had found their masters, in those same plebeians whom they had despised.
His papers were searched: letters from the Austrian Emperor, promising to send troops against the Paris populace, were found in his desk.
Now they had drifted quite apart, and Sir Percy seemed to have laid aside his love for her, as he would an ill-fitting glove.
She tried to rouse him by sharpening her ready wit against his dull intellect; endeavoured to excite his jealousy, if she could not rouse his love; tried to goad him to self-assertion, but all in vain.
He was the same stranger who an hour or two previously had joined Mr. Jellyband in a friendly glass of wine. "Chauvelin . . . my friend . . ." said Marguerite, with a pretty little sigh of satisfaction.
What of yourself?" "Oh, I?" she said, with a shrug of the shoulders.
Je m'ennuie, mon ami, that is all." They had reached the porch of "The Fisherman's Rest," but Marguerite seemed loth to go within.
The evening air was lovely after the storm, and she had found a friend who exhaled the breath of Paris, who knew Armand well, who could talk of all the merry, brilliant friends whom she had left behind.
Now, I thought that a pretty woman would have found English country life peculiarly attractive." "Yes! so did I," she said with a sigh.
The prescription I would offer, fair lady, is called by a very plebeian name: Work!" "Work?" Chauvelin looked at Marguerite long and scrutinisingly.
Listen!-I have been sent over here by the Republican Government as its representative: I present my credentials to Mr. Pitt in London to-morrow.
They are ready to join issue with any enemy bold enough to attack France. . . .
Their escape in each instance was planned, organised and effected by this society of young English jackanapes, headed by a man whose brain seems as resourceful as his identity is mysterious.
All the most strenuous efforts on the part of my spies have failed to discover who he is; whilst the others are the hands, he is the head, who beneath this strange anonymity calmly works at the destruction of France.
I mean to strike at that head, and for this I want your help-through him afterwards I can reach the rest of the gang: he is a young buck in English society, of that I feel sure.
She had not been in Paris for some months; the horrors and bloodshed of the Reign of Terror, culminating in the September massacres, had only come across the Channel to her as a faint echo.
The mysterious hero had vanished, and, not twenty yards away from her, a man was drinking and laughing, to whom she had sworn faith and loyalty. "La! man," she said with a return of her assumed flippancy, "you are astonishing.
Marguerite's fresh young cheeks became a thought more pale and she bit her under lip, for she would not let him see that the shaft had struck home. "That is beside the question," she said at last with indifference.
I can defend myself, but I refuse to do any dirty work for you-or for France.
A fifty-mile drive on a starlit summer's night!
Marguerite had hailed the notion of it with delight. . . .
He never told her, and she had never cared to ask. At "The Fisherman's Rest" Mr. Jellyband was going the round, putting out the lights.
I'll leave your candles on the dresser . . . and your rooms are quite ready . . .
I sleep at the top of the house myself, but if your lordship'll only call loudly enough, I daresay I shall hear." "All right, Jelly . . . and . . .
Good-night, sir!" "Good-night, Jelly!" The two young men listened, whilst the heavy tread of Mr. Jellyband was heard echoing along the passage and staircase.
It was all right." "Then here's to her very good health," said jovial Lord Tony.
She's a bonnie lass, though she _is_ a French one.
You have no idea, Tony. . . ." "No!
I haven't," interrupted his friend pleasantly, "but I'll take your word for it.
He crossed over to England two days before we did.
He had escorted the party all the way from Paris, dressed-you'll never credit it!-as an old market woman, and driving-until they were safely out of the city-the covered cart, under which the Comtesse de Tournay, Mlle.
Suzanne, and the Vicomte lay concealed among the turnips and cabbages.
They, themselves, of course, never suspected who their driver was.
It will be rare sport to get _him_ out of France, and you will have a narrow escape, if you get through at all.
St. Just has actually gone to meet him-of course, no one suspects St. Just as yet; but after that . . . to get them both out of the country!
I'faith, 'twill be a tough job, and tax even the ingenuity of our chief.
I hope I may yet have orders to be of the party." "Have you any special instructions for me?" "Yes! rather more precise ones than usual.
The rest of the room lay buried in complete gloom; Sir Andrew had taken a pocket-book from his pocket, and drawn therefrom a paper, which he unfolded, and together they tried to read it by the dim red firelight.
They lost count of the sounds around them, of the dropping of crisp ash from the grate, of the monotonous ticking of the clock, of the soft, almost imperceptible rustle of something on the floor close beside them.
Lord Antony stooped and picked it up. "What's that?" he asked. "I don't know," replied Sir Andrew. "It dropped out of your pocket just now.
It certainly did not seem to be with the other paper." "Strange!-I wonder when it got there?
Lord Antony crossed the room towards the door, which he threw open quickly and suddenly; at that very moment he received a stunning blow between the eyes, which threw him back violently into the room.
The masked man having taken possession of all the papers, listened for a moment or two if there were any sound within "The Fisherman's Rest.
Evidently satisfied that this dastardly outrage had remained unheard, he once more opened the door and pointed peremptorily down the passage.
Behind her sat little Suzanne and the Vicomte, both silent and somewhat shy among so many strangers. Suzanne's eyes seemed wistful; when she first entered the crowded house, she had looked eagerly all around, scanned every face, scrutinised every box.
Here is Madame la Comtesse de Tournay positively dying to hear the latest news from France." The distinguished diplomatist had come forward and was shaking hands with the ladies. "Alas!" he said sadly, "it is of the very worst.
I saw Lord Hastings yesterday . . . he reassured me again." "Then I am sure you need have no fear.
What the league have sworn, that they surely will accomplish.
My Lord Grenville, you have the gift of the gab, will you please explain to Madame la Comtesse that she is acting like a fool.
In your position here in England, Madame," she added, turning a wrathful and resolute face towards the Comtesse, "you cannot afford to put on the hoity-toity airs you French aristocrats are so fond of.
The very joy of living was writ plainly upon the sweet young face, it sparkled out of the merry blue eyes and lit up the smile that lurked around the lips.
Sir Percy had strolled away, to talk to more congenial friends probably.
I am going to Lord Grenville's ball to-night after the opera.
Then he said quietly- "Your brother, St. Just, is in peril." Not a muscle moved in the beautiful face before him.
May I?" The question was unnecessary.
Have I not already told you that I care nought about your schemes or about the Scarlet Pimpernel.
I saw them there." "They were already known to my spies as members of that accursed league.
It was Sir Andrew Ffoulkes who escorted the Comtesse de Tournay and her children across the Channel.
When the two young men were alone, my spies forced their way into the coffee-room of the inn, gagged and pinioned the two gallants, seized their papers, and brought them to me." In a moment she had guessed the danger.
Had Armand been imprudent? . . .
The very thought struck her with nameless terror. Still she would not let this man see that she feared; she laughed gaily and lightly. "Faith! and your impudence passes belief," she said merrily.
Robbery and violence!-in England!-in a crowded inn!
Your men might have been caught in the act!" "What if they had?
They are children of France, and have been trained by your humble servant.
Had they been caught they would have gone to jail, or even to the gallows, without a word of protest or indiscretion; at any rate it was well worth the risk.
A crowded inn is safer for these little operations than you think, and my men have experience." "Well?
Faith!" she added, ostentatiously smothering an imaginary yawn, "had you not spoken about my brother . . ." "I am coming to him now, citoyenne.
Among the papers there was a letter to Sir Andrew Ffoulkes, written by your brother, St. Just." "Well?
And?" "That letter shows him to be not only in sympathy with the enemies of France, but actually a helper, if not a member, of the League of the Scarlet Pimpernel." The blow had been struck at last.
All along, Marguerite had been expecting it; she would not show fear, she was determined to seem unconcerned, flippant even.
She wished, when the shock came, to be prepared for it, to have all her wits about her-those wits which had been nicknamed the keenest in Europe.
Even now she did not flinch.
It seems that my wits have become rusty by contact with this damp climate.
Marguerite took it mechanically and stooped to read it.
There were only two lines, written in a distorted, evidently disguised, handwriting; she read them half aloud- "'Remember we must not meet more often than is strictly necessary.
You have all instructions for the 2nd.
He will be at my Lord Grenville's ball to-night." "That is how I interpret the note, citoyenne," concluded Chauvelin, blandly.
But having found this tiny scrap of paper, my intention was that they should be in London, in time to attend my Lord Grenville's ball.
You see, do you not? that they must have a great deal to say to their chief . . . and thus they will have an opportunity of speaking to him to-night, just as he directed them to do.
Therefore, this morning, those two young gallants found every bar and bolt open in that lonely house on the Dover Road, their jailers disappeared, and two good horses standing ready saddled and tethered in the yard.
I have not seen them yet, but I think we may safely conclude that they did not draw rein until they reached London.
Now you hold a knife at my throat, and a hostage for my obedience. . . .
But what do you want me to do, Chauvelin?" she said, with a world of despair in her tear-choked voice.
You are going to the ball anon. . . .
Watch for me there, citoyenne, watch and listen. . . .
You can tell me if you hear a chance word or whisper. . . .
You can note everyone to whom Sir Andrew Ffoulkes or Lord Antony Dewhurst will speak.
You are absolutely beyond suspicion now.
The Scarlet Pimpernel will be at Lord Grenville's ball to-night.
Find out who he is, and I will pledge the word of France that your brother shall be safe." Chauvelin was putting the knife to her throat.
Marguerite felt herself entangled in one of those webs, from which she could hope for no escape.
A precious hostage was being held for her obedience: for she knew that this man would never make an empty threat.
No doubt Armand was already signalled to the Committee of Public Safety as one of the "suspect"; he would not be allowed to leave France again, and would be ruthlessly struck, if she refused to obey Chauvelin.
For a moment-woman-like-she still hoped to temporise.
She felt that from this man she could expect no mercy.
All-powerful, he held the beloved life in the hollow of his hand.
She knew him too well not to know that, if he failed in gaining his own ends, he would be pitiless. She felt cold in spite of the oppressive air of the opera-house.
The heart-appealing strains of the music seemed to reach her, as from a distant land.
She felt lonely, frightened for Armand's sake; she longed to seek comfort and advice from someone who would know how to help and console.
Sir Percy Blakeney had loved her once; he was her husband; why should she stand alone through this terrible ordeal?
Sir Percy knew St. Just well-he seemed attached to him-she was sure that he could help. Chauvelin was taking no further heed of her.
He had said his cruel "Either-or-" and left her to decide.
He, in his turn now, appeared to be absorbed in the soul-stirring melodies of _Orpheus_, and was beating time to the music with his sharp, ferret-like head. A discreet rap at the door roused Marguerite from her thoughts.
Excuse me-er-Monsieur Chauvelin-I had not observed you. . . ." He extended two slender, white fingers towards Chauvelin, who had risen when Sir Percy entered the box. "Are you coming, m'dear?" "Hush!
Sh!" came in angry remonstrance from different parts of the house. "Demmed impudence," commented Sir Percy with a good-natured smile. Marguerite sighed impatiently.
Her last hope seemed suddenly to have vanished away.
She wrapped her cloak round her and without looking at her husband: "I am ready to go," she said, taking his arm.
He was coming on presently from the opera.
Lord Grenville himself had listened to the two first acts of _Orpheus_, before preparing to receive his guests.
At ten o'clock-an unusually late hour in those days-the grand rooms of the Foreign Office, exquisitely decorated with exotic palms and flowers, were filled to overflowing.
And thus he looked upon every French aristocrat, who had succeeded in escaping from France, as so much prey of which the guillotine had been unwarrantably cheated.
He and the few young jackanapes under his command, well furnished with money, armed with boundless daring, and acute cunning, had succeeded in rescuing hundreds of aristocrats from France.
Chauvelin, the accredited agent of the French Government?" Chauvelin, immediately the Prince entered, had stepped forward, expecting this introduction.
As such you are welcome, Monsieur." "Monseigneur," rejoined Chauvelin, bowing once again.
Madame," he added, bowing ceremoniously before Marguerite. "Ah! my little Chauvelin!" she said with unconcerned gaiety, and extending her tiny hand to him.
The Comtesse de Tournay, who lately had so flagrantly insulted her, was here receiving a public lesson, at which Marguerite could not help but rejoice.
Here in England, Monsieur," he added, with wonderful charm and dignity, "we but name the Scarlet Pimpernel, and every fair cheek is suffused with a blush of enthusiasm.
None have seen him save his faithful lieutenants.
The tension of subdued excitement was relieved, and the next moment everyone was laughing and chatting merrily as the gay crowd broke up and dispersed in the adjoining rooms. CHAPTER XII. THE SCRAP OF PAPER Marguerite suffered intensely.
The short ray of hope-that she might find in this good-natured, lazy individual a valuable friend and adviser-had vanished as quickly as it had come, the moment she found herself alone with him.
He vowed that life without Blakeney would be but a dreary desert.
Her early, somewhat Bohemian training had made her something of a fatalist.
She felt that events would shape themselves, that the directing of them was not in her hands.
From Chauvelin she knew that she could expect no mercy.
Fate is usually swift when she deals a blow. Now Lady Blakeney had suddenly ceased to exist.
It was Marguerite St. Just who was there only: Marguerite St. Just who had passed her childhood, her early youth, in the protecting arms of her brother Armand.
Sir Andrew was standing with his back to her and close to a table upon which stood a massive silver candelabra.
At that moment he looked round and saw her; she uttered a groan, passed her hand across her forehead, and murmured faintly,- "The heat in the room was terrible . . .
I felt so faint. . . .
Let me . . ." "No, no, nothing-" she interrupted quickly.
A chair-quick." She sank into a chair close to the table, and throwing back her head, closed her eyes. "There!" she murmured, still faintly; "the giddiness is passing off. . . .
Marguerite sat there with her eyes apparently closed.
Sir Andrew was immediately behind her, and on her right was the table with the five-armed candelabra upon it. Before her mental vision there was absolutely nothing but Armand's face.
Armand! . . . For one moment there was dead silence in the little boudoir.
Then it was that that extra sense became potent in Marguerite Blakeney.
I assure you I feel much better; your remedy has proved most effectual.
Still dreaming and staring?" she said, with a merry laugh, "you are most ungallant, Sir Andrew; and now I come to think of it, you seemed more startled than pleased when you saw me just now.
I do believe, after all, that it was not concern for my health, nor yet a remedy taught you by your grandmother that caused you to burn this tiny scrap of paper. . . .
I vow it must have been your lady love's last cruel epistle you were trying to destroy.
I do believe it was Cupid himself who stood by you, and threatened the entire Foreign Office with destruction by fire, just on purpose to make me drop love's message, before it had been polluted by my indiscreet eyes.
How should I venture to thwart the love-god again?
Perhaps he would mete out some terrible chastisement against my presumption.
Burn your love-token, by all means!" Sir Andrew had already twisted the paper into a long spill, and was once again holding it to the flame of the candle, which had remained alight.
He watched the fateful note, as it curled under the flame.
If you wish to speak to me again, I shall be in the supper-room at one o'clock precisely.
The whole was signed with the hastily-scrawled little device-a tiny star-shaped flower, which had become so familiar to her. One o'clock precisely!
Two hours more, and her fate and that of Armand would be sealed.
It seemed a horrible thing to do.
But then, there was Armand!
Armand, too, was noble and brave, Armand, too, was unsuspecting.
And Armand loved her, would have willingly trusted his life in her hands, and now, when she could save him from death, she hesitated.
Oh! it was monstrous; her brother's kind, gentle face, so full of love for her, seemed to be looking reproachfully at her.
She noted-with that acute sense of hers-that she had succeeded in completely allaying Sir Andrew's fears.
Confess, I gave you a fright just now. . . .
But, remember, I am not an Englishwoman, and I do not look upon the exchanging of _billet doux_ as a crime, and I vow I'll not tell my little Suzanne.
But now, tell me, shall I welcome you at my water-party on Wednesday?" "I am not sure, Lady Blakeney," he replied evasively.
Blakeney, not content with being the richest among my father's subjects, has also the most outrageous luck.
By the way, where is that inimitable wit?
I vow, Madam, that this life would be but a dreary desert without your smiles and his sallies." CHAPTER XIV. ONE O'CLOCK PRECISELY! Supper had been extremely gay.
All those present declared that never had Lady Blakeney been more adorable, nor that "demmed idiot" Sir Percy more amusing. His Royal Highness had laughed until the tears streamed down his cheeks at Blakeney's foolish yet funny repartees.
His doggerel verse, "We seek him here, we seek him there," etc., was sung to the tune of "Ho!
Merry Britons!" and to the accompaniment of glasses knocked loudly against the table.
Escorted by a Cabinet Minister, she had once more found her way to the tiny boudoir, still the most deserted among all the rooms.
His eyes had met hers for a moment after the 'fore-supper minuet, and she knew that the keen diplomatist, with those searching pale eyes of his, had divined that her work was accomplished. Fate had willed it so.
Marguerite, torn by the most terrible conflict heart of woman can ever know, had resigned herself to its decrees.
But Armand must be saved at any cost; he, first of all, for he was her brother, had been mother, father, friend to her ever since she, a tiny babe, had lost both her parents.
To think of Armand dying a traitor's death on the guillotine was too horrible even to dwell upon-impossible, in fact.
That could never be, never. . . .
As for the stranger, the hero . . . well! there, let Fate decide.
And if he is, will you tell him that I am very tired, and would be glad to go home soon." The commands of a beautiful woman are binding on all mankind, even on Cabinet Ministers.
Lord Fancourt prepared to obey instantly. "I do not like to leave your ladyship alone," he said. "Never fear.
I shall be quite safe here-and, I think, undisturbed . . . but I am really tired.
Oh, Armand! will you ever know the terrible sacrifice of pride, of dignity, of womanliness a devoted sister is making for your sake? "Nothing of importance," she said, staring mechanically before her, "but it might prove a clue.
I contrived-no matter how-to detect Sir Andrew Ffoulkes in the very act of burning a paper at one of these candles, in this very room.
That paper I succeeded in holding between my fingers for the space of two minutes, and to cast my eye on it for that of ten seconds." "Time enough to learn its contents?" asked Chauvelin, quietly. She nodded.
Then she continued in the same even, mechanical tone of voice- "In the corner of the paper there was the usual rough device of a small star-shaped flower.
Above it I read two lines, everything else was scorched and blackened by the flame." "And what were these two lines?" Her throat seemed suddenly to have contracted.
Oh, this was cruel! cruel!
What had she done to have deserved all this?
Her choice was made: had she done a vile action or one that was sublime?
The recording angel, who writes in the book of gold, alone could give an answer. "What are you going to do?" she repeated mechanically. "Oh, nothing for the present.
After that it will depend." "On what?" "On whom I shall see in the supper-room at one o'clock precisely." "You will see the Scarlet Pimpernel, of course.
But you do not know him." "No. But I shall presently." "Sir Andrew will have warned him." "I think not.
When you parted from him after the minuet he stood and watched you, for a moment or two, with a look which gave me to understand that something had happened between you.
It was only natural, was it not? that I should make a shrewd guess as to the nature of that 'something.
When we all came upstairs again, Lady Portarles buttonholed him and started on the subject of pretty Mlle.
All these places are given as the point where this meddlesome Englishman has bidden the traitor de Tournay and others to meet his emissaries.
But it seems that he has decided not to send his emissaries, that 'he will start himself to-morrow.
I promise you that the day the Scarlet Pimpernel and I start for France, I will send you that imprudent letter of his by special courier.
She lay back in her chair, passive and still, seeing the figure of her relentless enemy ever present before her aching eyes. When Chauvelin reached the supper-room it was quite deserted.
What would this man be like, whom he and the leaders of a whole revolution had sworn to bring to his death?
Chauvelin himself as he gazed round the deserted room, where presently the weird hero would appear, felt a strange feeling of awe creeping all down his spine. But his plans were well laid.
He felt sure that the Scarlet Pimpernel had not been warned, and felt equally sure that Marguerite Blakeney had not played him false.
If she had . . . a cruel look, that would have made her shudder, gleamed in Chauvelin's keen, pale eyes.
Ah! had Armand's life not been at stake! . . . "Faith! your ladyship must have thought me very remiss," said a voice suddenly, close to her elbow.
He said that he would give orders at once for the horses to be put to." "Ah!" she said, still very absently, "you found my husband, and gave him my message?" "Yes; he was in the dining-room fast asleep.
You seem ailing, Lady Blakeney." "I am only very tired," she repeated wearily, as she allowed Lord Fancourt to lead her, where subdued lights and green plants lent coolness to the air.
He got her a chair, into which she sank.
This long interval of waiting was intolerable.
Why did not Chauvelin come and tell her the result of his watch? Lord Fancourt was very attentive.
She scarcely heard what he said, and suddenly startled him by asking abruptly,- "Lord Fancourt, did you perceive who was in the dining-room just now besides Sir Percy Blakeney?" "Only the agent of the French Government, M.
Chauvelin, equally fast asleep in another corner," he said.
Why does your ladyship ask?" "I know not . . .
Did you notice the time when you were there?" "It must have been about five or ten minutes past one. . . .
For one instant that possibility rose before her as a hope-the hope that the Scarlet Pimpernel had been warned by Sir Andrew, and that Chauvelin's trap had failed to catch his bird; but that hope soon gave way to fear.
But then-Armand! Lord Fancourt had given up talking since he found that he had no listener.
Chauvelin," she said, as he stopped on the top of the stairs, bowing elaborately before her, "my coach is outside; may I claim your arm?" As gallant as ever, he offered her his arm and led her downstairs.
When?" "You are torturing me, Chauvelin.
I have helped you to-night . . . surely I have the right to know.
But Chauvelin remained urbane, sarcastic, mysterious; not a line betrayed to the poor, anxious woman whether she need fear or whether she dared to hope. Downstairs on the landing she was soon surrounded.
Lady Blakeney never stepped from any house into her coach, without an escort of fluttering human moths around the dazzling light of her beauty.
Long shadows from overhanging trees spread occasional deep palls right across the road.
As usual, he did not speak to her, but stared straight in front of him, the ribbons seeming to lie quite loosely in his slender, white hands.
The moral crisis she had just gone through made her feel indulgent towards the faults, the delinquencies, of others. How thoroughly a human being can be buffeted and overmastered by Fate, had been borne in upon her with appalling force.
Thus human beings judge of one another, superficially, casually, throwing contempt on one another, with but little reason, and no charity.
She lingered outside for a moment, whilst he gave a few orders to one of his men.
She skirted the house, and stepped on to the lawn, looking out dreamily into the silvery landscape.
She had heard the horses prancing as they were being led away to their distant stables, the hurrying of servants' feet as they had all gone within to rest: the house also was quite still.
Involuntarily she sighed-at that moment she could really not have told why. She was suffering from unconquerable heartache.
Deeply and achingly she was sorry for herself.
Never had she felt so pitiably lonely, so bitterly in want of comfort and of sympathy.
He, too, had skirted the house, and was wandering along the lawn, towards the river.
She returned his gaze for a moment, then her eyes softened, as she came up quite close to him, to the foot of the terrace steps. "Of the shortest, Sir Percy?
Faith! how it must have altered!
Was it three years ago or four that you saw me for one hour in Paris, on your way to the East?
I take it that it was not with a view to indulging in tender reminiscences." His voice certainly was cold and uncompromising: his attitude before her, stiff and unbending.
Methought that the passion which you once felt for me would outlast the span of human life.
Is it that you have the taste to renew the devilish sport which you played so successfully last year?
I entreat you!" she whispered, "can we not bury the past?" "Pardon me, Madame, but I understood you to say that your desire was to dwell in it." "Nay!
I spoke not of _that_ past, Percy!" she said, while a tone of tenderness crept into her voice.
Rather did I speak of the time when you loved me still! and I . . . oh!
But my pride sealed my lips, when your love seemed to perish, as if under the knife of that same guillotine.
Yet I would have told you how I was duped!
I, whom that same popular rumour had endowed with the sharpest wits in France!
I was tricked into doing this thing, by men who knew how to play upon my love for an only brother, and my desire for revenge.
Was it unnatural?" Her voice became choked with tears.
She paused for a moment or two, trying to regain some sort of composure.
She looked appealingly at him, almost as if he were her judge.
The dim, grey light of early dawn seemed to make his tall form look taller and more rigid.
The lazy, good-natured face looked strangely altered. Marguerite, excited, as she was, could see that the eyes were no longer languid, the mouth no longer good-humoured and inane.
Armand was all in all to me!
We had no parents, and brought one another up.
He was my little father, and I, his tiny mother; we loved one another so.
Then one day-do you mind me, Sir Percy? the Marquis de St. Cyr had my brother Armand thrashed-thrashed by his lacqueys-that brother whom I loved better than all the world!
That he, a plebeian, had dared to love the daughter of the aristocrat; for that he was waylaid and thrashed . . . thrashed like a dog within an inch of his life!
Oh, how I suffered! his humiliation had eaten into my very soul!
When the opportunity occurred, and I was able to take my revenge, I took it.
But I only thought to bring that proud marquis to trouble and humiliation.
He plotted with Austria against his own country.
Chance gave me knowledge of this; I spoke of it, but I did not know-how could I guess?-they trapped and duped me.
When I realised what I had done, it was too late." "It is perhaps a little difficult, Madame," said Sir Percy, after a moment of silence between them, "to go back over the past.
Had you spoken but one word, from you I would have accepted any explanation and believed it.
Hardly had I gone, already I had repented.
But he would not yield to the magic charm of this woman whom he had so deeply loved, and at whose hands his pride had suffered so bitterly.
For months now it has been your plaything . . . it has served its purpose." But now she knew that that very coldness was a mask.
You spoke of my mood just now; well! we will call it that, if you will.
I can scarce believe that but a few months ago one tear in my eye had set you well-nigh crazy.
A letter of his . . . rash, impetuous, as were all his actions, and written to Sir Andrew Ffoulkes, has fallen into the hands of a fanatic.
All her trouble, her struggles, the awful uncertainty of Armand's fate overwhelmed her.
Begad, Madame," he added very gently, as Marguerite continued to sob hysterically, "will you dry your tears? . . .
You have so much influence at court . . . so many friends . . ." "Nay, Madame, should you not rather seek the influence of your French friend, M.
His extends, if I mistake not, even as far as the Republican Government of France." "I cannot ask him, Percy. . . .
But she dared not give way to that impulse . . . not now, when she was just beginning to feel that he still loved her, when she hoped that she could win him back.
She dared not make another confession to him.
After all, he might not understand; he might not sympathise with her struggles and temptation.
His love still dormant might sleep the sleep of death. Perhaps he divined what was passing in her mind.
His whole attitude was one of intense longing-a veritable prayer for that confidence, which her foolish pride withheld from him.
When she remained silent he sighed, and said with marked coldness- "Faith, Madame, since it distresses you, we will not speak of it. . . . As for Armand, I pray you have no fear.
I pledge you my word that he shall be safe.
Now, have I your permission to go?
Your women will be waiting for you upstairs." He stood aside to allow her to pass.
She sighed, a quick sigh of disappointment.
His pride and her beauty had been in direct conflict, and his pride had remained the conqueror.
Perhaps, after all, she had been deceived just now; what she took to be the light of love in his eyes might only have been the passion of pride or, who knows, of hatred instead of love.
She stood looking at him for a moment or two longer. He was again as rigid, as impassive, as before.
Pride had conquered, and he cared naught for her.
The grey of dawn was gradually yielding to the rosy light of the rising sun. Birds began to twitter; Nature awakened, smiling in happy response to the warmth of this glorious October morning.
She reached the tall glass doors which led into the house.
Before entering, she paused once again to look at him, hoping against hope to see his arms stretched out to her, and to hear his voice calling her back.
Pride had given way at last, obstinacy was gone: the will was powerless.
Give me a wrap, and leave me alone." Louise was only too glad to obey.
She took off her mistress's gorgeous ball-dress, and wrapped her up in a soft billowy gown. "Does your ladyship wish for anything else?" she asked, when that was done. "No, nothing more.
Put out the lights as you go out." "Yes, my lady.
Good-night, my lady." "Good-night, Louise." When the maid was gone, Marguerite drew aside the curtains and threw open the windows.
The garden and the river beyond were flooded with rosy light.
Far away to the east, the rays of the rising sun had changed the rose into vivid gold.
Was it love that she had felt for him a year ago when she married him?
Was it love she felt for him now that she realised that he still loved her, but that he would not become her slave, her passionate, ardent lover once again?
Marguerite herself could not have told that.
Not at this moment at any rate; perhaps her pride had sealed her mind against a better understanding of her own heart.
But this she did know-that she meant to capture that obstinate heart back again.
That she would conquer once more . . . and then, that she would never lose him . . . .
But the noise had made her nervous, and when, suddenly, at her feet, on the very doorstep, she saw something white lying there-a letter evidently-she hardly dared touch it.
My business may keep me employed for about a week, so I shall not have the privilege of being present at your ladyship's water-party on Wednesday.
Her ears had not deceived her.
He had changed his gorgeous ball costume, but was as usual irreproachably and richly apparelled in a suit of fine cloth, with lace jabot and ruffles, high top-boots, and riding breeches. Marguerite went forward a few steps.
He looked up and saw her.
A slight frown appeared between his eyes. "You are going?" she said quickly and feverishly.
May I therefore crave your permission to go. . . .
Can I do aught for you in town? . . . on my way back?" "No . . . no . . . thanks . . . nothing. . . .
Surely I, as your wife, have the right to know.
You have _not_ been called away to the North.
There were no letters, no couriers from there before we left for the opera last night, and nothing was waiting for you when we returned from the ball. . . .
You are _not_ going to the North, I feel convinced. . . .
There is some mystery . . . and . . ." "Nay, there is no mystery, Madame," he replied, with a slight tone of impatience.
My business has to do with Armand . . . there!
Now, have I your leave to depart?" "With Armand? . . .
But you will run no danger?" "Danger?
Nay, Madame, your solicitude does me honour.
As you say, I have some influence; my intention is to exert it before it be too late." "Will you allow me to thank you at least?" "Nay, Madame," he said coldly, "there is no need for that.
I will not detain you . . . my thoughts go with you . . .
Farewell! . . ." How lovely she looked in this morning sunlight, with her ardent hair streaming around her shoulders.
Marguerite, with a sigh that was almost a happy one, turned and went within.
The man who had just ridden away, bent on helping her brother, inspired her with complete confidence in his strength and in his power.
She marvelled at herself for having ever looked upon him as an inane fool; of course, _that_ was a mask worn to hide the bitter wound she had dealt to his faith and to his love.
He had failed to discover the identity of the Scarlet Pimpernel, of that she felt sure.
The groom thought that his master was about to get on board his schooner, which was lying off just below London Bridge.
Sir Percy had ridden thus far, had then met Briggs, the skipper of the _Day Dream_, and had sent the groom back to Richmond with Sultan and the empty saddle. This news puzzled Marguerite more than ever.
Where could Sir Percy be going just now in the _Day Dream_?
On Armand's behalf, he had said. Well!
Sir Percy had influential friends everywhere.
Perhaps he was going to Greenwich, or . . . but Marguerite ceased to conjecture; all would be explained anon: he said that he would come back, and that he would remember. A long, idle day lay before Marguerite.
She was expecting the visit of her old school-fellow, little Suzanne de Tournay.
With all the merry mischief at her command, she had tendered her request for Suzanne's company to the Comtesse in the presence of the Prince of Wales last night.
His Royal Highness had loudly applauded the notion, and declared that he would give himself the pleasure of calling on the two ladies in the course of the afternoon.
His own special and confidential valet, Frank, had charge of this room.
No one was ever allowed to go inside.
Frank was evidently busy with his master's rooms, for most of the doors stood open, that of the study amongst the others. A sudden, burning, childish curiosity seized her to have a peep at Sir Percy's sanctum.
The restriction, of course, did not apply to her, and Frank would, of course, not dare to oppose her.
Everything was in its place, not a scrap of paper littered the floor, not a cupboard or drawer was left open.
On the wall to the left of the desk, reaching almost from floor to ceiling, was a large full-length portrait of a woman, magnificently framed, exquisitely painted, and signed with the name of Boucher.
It was Percy's mother. Marguerite knew very little about her, except that she had died abroad, ailing in body as well as in mind, when Percy was still a lad.
She must have been a very beautiful woman once, when Boucher painted her, and as Marguerite looked at the portrait, she could not but be struck by the extraordinary resemblance which must have existed between mother and son.
It was covered with a mass of papers, all neatly tied and docketed, which looked like accounts and receipts arrayed with perfect method.
But it also strengthened her in the now certain knowledge that, with his worldly inanities, his foppish ways, and foolish talk, he was not only wearing a mask, but was playing a deliberate and studied part. Marguerite wondered again.
Why should he take all this trouble?
She felt cold and uncomfortable suddenly in this severe and dark room.
There were no pictures on the wall, save the fine Boucher portrait, only a couple of maps, both of parts of France, one of the North coast and the other of the environs of Paris.
What did Sir Percy want with those, she wondered. Her head began to ache, she turned away from this strange Blue Beard's chamber, which she had entered, and which she did not understand.
She did not wish Frank to find her here, and with a last look round, she once more turned to the door.
As she did so, her foot knocked against a small object, which had apparently been lying close to the desk, on the carpet, and which now went rolling, right across the room. She stooped to pick it up.
It was a solid gold ring, with a flat shield, on which was engraved a small device. Marguerite turned it over in her fingers, and then studied the engraving on the shield.
It was ridiculous! she was dreaming! her nerves were overwrought, and she saw signs and mysteries in the most trivial coincidences.
Had not everybody about town recently made a point of affecting the device of that mysterious and heroic Scarlet Pimpernel? Did she not herself wear it embroidered on her gowns? set in gems and enamel in her hair?
What was there strange in the fact that Sir Percy should have chosen to use the device as a seal-ring?
You won't be bored?" "Oh! bored!
Margot, how _can_ you say such a wicked thing.
Ah, well, I suppose now that you are a married woman you won't care to talk secrets with me any longer. Oh! what lots and lots of secrets we used to have at school!
Faith, there's naught to be ashamed of!
I think maman will consent," she added thoughtfully, "and I shall be-oh! so happy-but, of course, nothing is to be thought of until papa is safe. . . ." Marguerite started.
Chauvelin had told her nothing, it was true; but she remembered how sarcastic and evil he looked when she took final leave of him after the ball.
Had he discovered something then?
I love to hear you talking . . . and your happiness makes me so very glad. . . .
Have no fear, we will manage to propitiate maman.
My Lord Hastings came to see maman early this morning.
He was in London this morning; he will be in Calais, perhaps, to-morrow . . . where he will meet papa . . . and then . . . and then . . ." The blow had fallen.
Percy Blakeney . . . her husband . . . whom she had betrayed last night to Chauvelin. . . . Percy . . .
Percy . . . her husband . . . the Scarlet Pimpernel. . . . Oh! how could she have been so blind?
No wonder that Chauvelin's spies had failed to detect, in the apparently brainless nincompoop, the man whose reckless daring and resourceful ingenuity had baffled the keenest French spies, both in France and in England.
Even last night when Chauvelin went to Lord Grenville's dining-room to seek that daring Scarlet Pimpernel, he only saw that inane Sir Percy Blakeney fast asleep in a corner of the sofa. Had his astute mind guessed the secret, then?
Here lay the whole awful, horrible, amazing puzzle.
In betraying a nameless stranger to his fate in order to save her brother, had Marguerite Blakeney sent her husband to his death? No! no! no! a thousand times no!
What is it?" "Nothing, nothing, child," she murmured, as in a dream.
Wait a moment . . . let me think . . . think! . . .
You frighten me. . . ." "It is nothing, child, I tell you . . . nothing. . . .
I must be alone a minute-and-dear one . . .
I may have to curtail our time together to-day. . . .
I won't be a hindrance to you.
My maid, Lucile, has not yet gone . . . we will go back together . . . don't think of me." She threw her arms impulsively round Marguerite.
Marguerite did not move, she remained there, thinking . . . wondering what was to be done. Just as little Suzanne was about to mount the terrace steps, a groom came running round the house towards his mistress.
He carried a sealed letter in his hand.
With superhuman effort she regained control over herself-there was yet much to be done. "Bring that runner here to me," she said to the servant, with much calm.
He has not gone?" "No, my lady." The groom went, and Marguerite turned to Suzanne. "And you, child, run within.
Tell Lucile to get ready.
I fear I must send you home, child.
And-stay, tell one of the maids to prepare a travelling dress and cloak for me." Suzanne made no reply.
He said you would understand." "At 'The Rose and Thistle'?
What was he doing?" "He was waiting for the coach, your ladyship, which he had ordered." "The coach?" "Yes, my lady.
A special coach he had ordered.
I understood from his man that he was posting straight to Dover." "That's enough.
Then she turned to the groom: "My coach and the four swiftest horses in the stables, to be ready at once." The groom and runner both went quickly off to obey.
Marguerite remained standing for a moment on the lawn quite alone.
Her graceful figure was as rigid as a statue, her eyes were fixed, her hands were tightly clasped across her breast; her lips moved as they murmured with pathetic heart-breaking persistence,- "What's to be done?
Where to find him?-Oh, God! grant me light." But this was not the moment for remorse and despair.
She had done-unwittingly-an awful and terrible thing-the very worst crime, in her eyes, that woman ever committed-she saw it in all its horror.
Her very blindness in not having guessed her husband's secret seemed now to her another deadly sin.
By her own blindness she had sinned; now she must repay, not by empty remorse, but by prompt and useful action. Percy had started for Calais, utterly unconscious of the fact that his most relentless enemy was on his heels.
He had set sail early that morning from London Bridge.
Once in Calais, Percy would meet all those who were eagerly waiting for the noble and brave Scarlet Pimpernel, who had come to rescue them from horrible and unmerited death.
Once in Calais she would not know where to find her husband, whilst Chauvelin, in stealing the papers at Dover, had obtained the whole itinerary.
But if he were warned, he might form new plans, be more wary, more prudent.
This she meant to do, if God gave her wits and strength.
She meant to do or die, with him and for his sake.
A frown, which spoke of an iron will and unbending resolution, appeared between the two straight brows; already her plans were formed.
Percy, the husband whom she loved with all the ardour which her admiration for his bravery had kindled, was in immediate, deadly peril, through her hand.
She had betrayed him to his enemy-unwittingly 'tis true-but she _had_ betrayed him, and if Chauvelin succeeded in trapping him, who so far was unaware of his danger, then his death would be at her door.
He had always been her friend, and now his love for little Suzanne had brought him closer to her still.
She went upstairs to the young man's comfortable bachelor's chambers, and was shown into a small, though luxuriously furnished, dining-room.
You must take certain things I am going to tell you for granted.
These will be of no importance.
What is important is that your leader and comrade, the Scarlet Pimpernel . . . my husband . . .
This is how the matter stands.
When the agent of the French Government stole your papers that night in Dover, he found amongst them certain plans, which you or your leader meant to carry out for the rescue of the Comte de Tournay and others.
The Scarlet Pimpernel-Percy, my husband-has gone on this errand himself to-day.
Chauvelin knows that the Scarlet Pimpernel and Percy Blakeney are one and the same person.
He will follow him to Calais, and there will lay hands on him.
You know as well as I do the fate that awaits him at the hands of the Revolutionary Government of France.
No interference from England-from King George himself-would save him. Robespierre and his gang would see to it that the interference came too late.
You must know that I am speaking the truth.
Look these facts straight in the face.
Percy has sailed for Calais, I presume for some lonely part of the coast, and Chauvelin is on his track. _He_ has posted for Dover, and will cross the Channel probably to-night.
Oh, God! cannot you see that I am in deadly earnest?
Quick, man! . . . the very seconds are precious!" "Will you tell me," he asked resolutely, and looking searchingly into her blue eyes, "whose hand helped to guide M.
Chauvelin to the knowledge which you say he possesses?" "Mine," she said quietly, "I own it-I will not lie to you, for I wish you to trust me absolutely.
Armand is more than a brother to me, and . . . and . . . how _could_ I guess? . . .
Tell me what you wish me to do.
But I must know where to find him.
Is it small wonder that I did not see through it?
But last night, after I led him unwittingly into such deadly peril, it suddenly fell from my eyes.
If you will not help me, Sir Andrew, I would still strive to save my husband.
You would be running the greatest possible risks to yourself, and your chances of finding your husband now-were I to direct you ever so carefully-are infinitely remote." "Oh, I hope there are risks!" she murmured softly.
I hope there are dangers, too!-I have so much to atone for.
But I fear you are mistaken. Chauvelin's eyes are fixed upon you all, he will scarce notice me. Quick, Sir Andrew!-the coach is ready, and there is not a moment to be lost. . . .
I _must_ get to him!
I _must_!" she repeated with almost savage energy, "to warn him that that man is on his track. . . .
Gladly would I or any of my comrades lay down our lives for your husband.
If you _will_ go yourself . . ." "Nay, friend, do you not see that I would go mad if I let you go without me?
She stretched out her hand to him.
You _will_ trust me?" "I await your orders," he said simply. "Listen, then.
My coach is ready to take me to Dover.
Do you follow me, as swiftly as horses will take you.
We meet at nightfall at 'The Fisherman's Rest.
Chauvelin would avoid it, as he is known there, and I think it would be the safest.
I will gladly accept your escort to Calais . . . as you say, I might miss Sir Percy were you to direct me ever so carefully.
We'll charter a schooner at Dover and cross over during the night.
Disguised, if you will agree to it, as my lacquey, you will, I think, escape detection." "I am entirely at your service, Madame," rejoined the young man earnestly.
I trust to God that you will sight the _Day Dream_ before we reach Calais.
With Chauvelin at his heels, every step the Scarlet Pimpernel takes on French soil is fraught with danger." "God grant it, Sir Andrew.
We meet to-night at Dover!
It will be a race between Chauvelin and me across the Channel to-night-and the prize-the life of the Scarlet Pimpernel." He kissed her hand, and then escorted her to her chair.
A quarter of an hour later she was back at the "Crown" inn, where her coach and horses were ready and waiting for her.
The next moment they thundered along the London streets, and then straight on to the Dover road at maddening speed. She had no time for despair now.
She was up and doing and had no leisure to think.
With Sir Andrew Ffoulkes as her companion and ally, hope had once again revived in her heart. God would be merciful.
But my coachman and men will stay the night, and probably several days longer, so I hope you will make them comfortable." "Yes, my lady; I'll look after them.
Shall Sally bring your ladyship some supper?" "Yes, please.
Put something cold on the table, and as soon as Sir Andrew Ffoulkes comes, show him in here." "Yes, my lady." Honest Jellyband's face now expressed distress in spite of himself.
He had great regard for Sir Percy Blakeney, and did not like to see his lady running away with young Sir Andrew.
Of course, it was no business of his, and Mr. Jellyband was no gossip.
Sir Andrew may be late." Jellyband was only too willing that Sally should go to bed.
He was beginning not to like these goings-on at all.
Her coachman, whom she questioned, had not seen anyone answering the description his mistress gave him of the wizened figure of the little Frenchman. Evidently, therefore, he had been ahead of her all the time.
She had not dared to question the people at the various inns, where they had stopped to change horses.
That thought gripped her at the heart as with an iron vice.
She had heard Sally go upstairs.
Mr. Jellyband had gone to see to her coachman and men, and then had returned and taken up a position under the porch outside, just where Marguerite had first met Chauvelin about a week ago.
Marguerite wondered if the wind would be favourable for her journey.
She had no fear of the storm, and would have braved worse risks sooner than delay the crossing by an hour. A sudden commotion outside roused her from her meditations.
Monsieur, my lacquey," she said, "I am satisfied with your appearance!" Mr. Jellyband had followed Sir Andrew, looking strangely perplexed.
The young gallant's disguise had confirmed his worst suspicions.
I am sorry to say we cannot cross over to-night." "Not cross over to-night?" she repeated in amazement.
But we must, Sir Andrew, we must!
There can be no question of cannot, and whatever it may cost, we must get a vessel to-night." But the young man shook his head sadly. "I am afraid it is not a question of cost, Lady Blakeney.
There is a nasty storm blowing from France, the wind is dead against us, we cannot possibly sail until it has changed." Marguerite became deadly pale.
She had not foreseen this.
Nature herself was playing her a horrible, cruel trick.
It is quite impossible to set sail to-night, so every sailor assured me.
No one," he added, looking significantly at Marguerite, "_no one_ could possibly put out of Dover to-night." Marguerite at once understood what he meant. _No one_ included Chauvelin as well as herself.
She nodded pleasantly to Jellyband. "Well, then, I must resign myself," she said to him.
Have you a room for me?" "Oh, yes, your ladyship.
A nice, bright, airy room.
I'll see to it at once. . . .
And there is another one for Sir Andrew-both quite ready." "That's brave now, mine honest Jelly," said Sir Andrew, gaily, and clapping his worthy host vigorously on the back.
You unlock both those rooms, and leave our candles here on the dresser.
He had the satisfaction of seeing that he had partially succeeded.
Jellyband's rubicund countenance brightened somewhat, at mention of Sir Percy's name. "I'll go and see to it at once, sir," he said with alacrity, and with less frigidity in his manner.
The storm makes it quite impossible for any vessel to put out of Dover this tide.
But, what seemed to you at first a terrible calamity is really a blessing in disguise.
He may now even be lying at the bottom of the sea, for there is a furious storm raging, and it will fare ill with all small craft which happen to be out.
But I fear me we cannot build our hopes upon the shipwreck of that cunning devil, and of all his murderous plans.
Shall I go waylay him and run my sword through him?
That were indeed the quickest way out of the difficulty." "Nay!
Sir Andrew, do not jest!
I have often since last night caught myself wishing for that fiend's death.
But what you suggest is impossible!
The laws of this country do not permit of murder!
This enforced rest of at least twelve hours, until the next tide, was sure to be terribly difficult to bear in the state of intense excitement in which she was.
Obedient in these small matters like a child, Marguerite tried to eat and drink. Sir Andrew, with that profound sympathy born in all those who are in love, made her almost happy by talking to her about her husband.
He recounted to her some of the daring escapes the brave Scarlet Pimpernel had contrived for the poor French fugitives, whom a relentless and bloody revolution was driving out of their country.
There were many more to spend in enforced inactivity in Dover.
Marguerite rose from the table with an impatient sigh.
She looked forward with dread to the night in the bed upstairs, with terribly anxious thoughts to keep her company, and the howling of the storm to help chase sleep away. She wondered where Percy was now.
The _Day Dream_ was a strong, well-built, sea-going yacht.
There was no danger for them from the storm. It was long past midnight when at last Marguerite retired to rest.
As she had feared, sleep sedulously avoided her eyes.
Her thoughts were of the blackest during these long, weary hours, whilst that incessant storm raged which was keeping her away from Percy.
The sound of the distant breakers made her heart ache with melancholy.
She was in the mood when the sea has a saddening effect upon the nerves.
After a sleepless night, she rose early, wild with excitement, dying to start on her journey, terrified lest further obstacles lay in her way.
She rose before anyone else in the house was astir, so frightened was she, lest she should miss the one golden opportunity of making a start. When she came downstairs, she found Sir Andrew Ffoulkes sitting in the coffee-room.
He had been out half an hour earlier, and had gone to the Admiralty Pier, only to find that neither the French packet nor any privately chartered vessel could put out of Dover yet.
The storm was then at its fullest, and the tide was on the turn.
If the wind did not abate or change, they would perforce have to wait another ten or twelve hours until the next tide, before a start could be made.
And the storm had not abated, the wind had not changed, and the tide was rapidly drawing out. Marguerite felt the sickness of despair when she heard this melancholy news.
This enforced inactivity was terrible to them both. How they spent that wearisome day at Dover, Marguerite could never afterwards say.
One or two lights could be seen flickering, and the spires of several churches to rise out of the surrounding haze. Half an hour later Marguerite had landed upon French shore.
Calais, even in those days, was in constant business communication with England, and English merchants were often to be seen on this coast.
It was well known that in view of the heavy duties in England, a vast deal of French wines and brandies were smuggled across.
The streets were narrow, tortuous, and mostly evil-smelling, with a mixture of stale fish and damp cellar odours.
Sir Andrew evidently knew the road, for he had walked unerringly in the dark, and had not asked his way from anyone.
It was too dark then for Marguerite to notice the outside aspect of this house.
The "Chat Gris," as Sir Andrew had called it, was evidently a small wayside inn on the outskirts of Calais, and on the way to Gris Nez.
Sir Andrew knocked again, this time more peremptorily: more oaths were heard, and then shuffling steps seemed to draw near the door.
On one side of the room, high up in the wall, there was a species of loft, before which hung a tattered blue-and-white checked curtain.
He carried a short wooden pipe, from which the odour of rank tobacco emanated.
She was sitting mumbling to herself, and from time to time stirring the brew in her stock-pot. "Hey, my friend!" said Sir Andrew at last, "we should like some supper. . . .
I pray you, Sir Andrew," she said gently, "be not anxious about me.
Marguerite might have enjoyed it, but for the horrible surroundings.
She broke the bread, however, and drank some of the wine. "Nay, Sir Andrew," she said, "I do not like to see you standing.
You have need of food just as much as I have.
I'd sooner scrag him than question him. Hey! my friend," he said pleasantly in French, and tapping Brogard lightly on the shoulder, "do you see many of our quality along these parts?
But a free-born French citizen is never in any hurry to answer questions: Brogard took his time, then he said very slowly,- "Tall Englishman?-To-day!-Yes." "You have seen him?" asked Sir Andrew, carelessly. "Yes, to-day," muttered Brogard, sullenly.
He was safe and well, was coming back here presently, she would see him in a few moments perhaps. . . .
It was distinctly more fitting to his new-born dignity to be as rude as possible; it was a sure sign of servility to meekly reply to civil questions. "I don't know," he said surlily.
I have said enough, _voyons, les aristos!_ . . .
We shall not get anything more out of him, and we might arouse his suspicions.
May we talk?" "As cautiously as possible!" he entreated. "Faith, man! but you wear a glum face!
As for me, I could dance with joy!
Surely there is no longer any cause for fear.
Our boat is on the beach, the _Foam Crest_ not two miles out at sea, and my husband will be here, under this very roof, within the next half hour perhaps.
Sure! there is naught to hinder us.
But-I did not speak of it before, for I feared to alarm you-I saw him on the beach not five minutes before we embarked.
The terrible danger in which Percy stood, now that he was actually on French soil, became suddenly and horribly clear to her.
Hence his hurried note to them at Lord Grenville's ball-"Start myself to-morrow-alone." And now with his identity known to his most bitter enemy, his every step would be dogged, the moment he set foot in France.
We shall be mid-Channel ere Chauvelin has realised that we have slipped through his fingers." She spoke excitedly and eagerly, wishing to infuse into her young friend some of that buoyant hope which still clung to her heart.
But he shook his head sadly. "Silent again, Sir Andrew?" she said with some impatience.
With the sublime selfishness of a woman who loves with her whole heart, she had in the last twenty-four hours had no thought save for him.
As for breaking his word, the very thought is preposterous!" There was silence for a moment or two.
Marguerite had buried her face in her hands, and was letting the tears slowly trickle through her trembling fingers.
The young man said nothing; his heart ached for this beautiful woman in her awful grief.
All along he had felt the terrible _impasse_ in which her own rash act had plunged them all.
He knew his friend and leader so well, with his reckless daring, his mad bravery, his worship of his own word of honour.
As you say, I should plead in vain.
God grant him strength and ability," she added fervently and resolutely, "to outwit his pursuers.
He will not refuse to take you with him, perhaps, when he starts on his noble work; between you, you will have cunning as well as valour!
In the meanwhile I think we should lose no time.
I still believe that his safety depends upon his knowing that Chauvelin is on his track." "Undoubtedly.
He has wonderful resources at his command.
Could you give her the use of another room? She would wish to be alone." He took some money out of his pocket, and allowed it to jingle significantly in his hand.
Brogard had opened the door, and listened, with his usual surly apathy, to the young man's request.
It's comfortable, and I have no other room." "Nothing could be better," said Marguerite in English; she at once realised the advantages such a position hidden from view would give her.
There was no fear of her doing anything that was rash. "Nay," she said with a slight attempt at cheerfulness, "that can I faithfully promise you.
I would not jeopardise my husband's life, nor yet his plans, by speaking to him before strangers.
If I do not come across Blakeney in half an hour, I shall return, expecting to find him here." "Yes, that will be best.
We can afford to wait for half an hour. Chauvelin cannot possibly be here before that.
God grant that either you or I may have seen Percy by then.
Good luck to you, friend!
Have no fear for me." Lightly she mounted the rickety wooden steps that led to the attic. Brogard was taking no further heed of her.
She could make herself comfortable there or not as she chose.
Sir Andrew watched her until she had reached the loft and sat down upon the straw.
Then Sir Andrew prepared to go.
At the door he turned once again and looked up at the loft.
Through the ragged curtains Marguerite's sweet face was peeping down at him, and the young man rejoiced to see that it looked serene, and even gently smiling.
With a final nod of farewell to her, he walked out into the night. CHAPTER XXIV. THE DEATH-TRAP The next quarter of an hour went by swiftly and noiselessly.
In the room downstairs, Brogard had for a while busied himself with clearing the table, and re-arranging it for another guest. It was because she watched these preparations that Marguerite found the time slipping by more pleasantly.
It was for Percy that this semblance of supper was being got ready.
She could not even remotely conjecture.
She knew, of course, that Sir Andrew was right, that Percy would do everything he had set out to accomplish; that she-now she was here-could do nothing, beyond warning him to be cautious, since Chauvelin himself was on his track.
After having cautioned him, she would perforce have to see him go off upon his terrible and daring mission; she could not even with a word or look, attempt to keep him back.
Was it Percy at last? No! the step did not seem quite as long, nor quite as firm as his; she also thought that she could hear two distinct sets of footsteps.
Yes! that was it! two men were coming this way.
She could not see his face, which was shaded by his broad-brimmed hat, but she recognised the thin, bony hands, the slight stoop, the whole gait of the man!
There are any amount of fishermen's huts all along the coast, of course . . . but . . ." "That'll do.
Now about to-night?" interrupted Chauvelin, impatiently. "The roads and the beach are patrolled as usual, citoyen, and Captain Jutley awaits further orders." "Go back to him at once, then.
You understand?" "Perfectly, citoyen," replied Desgas. "As soon as any of the men have sighted a stranger, two of them are to keep him in view.
The man who loses sight of the tall stranger, after he is once seen, will pay for his negligence with his life; but one man is to ride straight back here and report to me.
Is that clear?" "Absolutely clear, citoyen." "Very well, then.
Go and see Jutley at once.
See the reinforcements start off for the patrol duty, then ask the captain to let you have half-a-dozen more men and bring them here with you.
You can be back in ten minutes.
Go-" Desgas saluted and went to the door. As Marguerite, sick with horror, listened to Chauvelin's directions to his underling, the whole of the plan for the capture of the Scarlet Pimpernel became appallingly clear to her.
Chauvelin wished that the fugitives should be left in false security waiting in their hidden retreat until Percy joined them.
Then the daring plotter was to be surrounded and caught red-handed, in the very act of aiding and abetting royalists, who were traitors to the republic.
The tall stranger may show fight.
In any case no shooting, remember, except as a last resort.
I want that tall stranger alive . . . if possible." He laughed, as Dante has told us that the devils laugh at sight of the torture of the damned.
He continued to laugh and chuckle to himself for a while, rubbing his hands together in anticipation of his triumph. His plans were well laid, and he might well triumph!
The brave eagle, captured, and with noble wings clipped, was doomed to endure the gnawing of the rat.
He was evidently quite contented, and awaited events with perfect calm; he even seemed to enjoy Brogard's unsavoury fare.
Marguerite wondered how so much hatred could lurk in one human being against another. Suddenly, as she watched Chauvelin, a sound caught her ear, which turned her very heart to stone.
In the singer she had recognised her husband.
She checked the impulse just in time.
Chauvelin would stop her before she reached the door, and, moreover, she had no idea if he had any soldiers posted within his call.
Her impetuous act might prove the death-signal of the man she would have died to save. "Long to reign over us, God save the King!" sang the voice more lustily than ever.
Where's that fool Brogard?" He wore the magnificent coat and riding-suit which he had on when Marguerite last saw him at Richmond, so many hours ago.
I vow I never thought of meeting you here." Chauvelin, who had been in the very act of conveying soup to his mouth, fairly choked.
His thin face became absolutely purple, and a violent fit of coughing saved this cunning representative of France from betraying the most boundless surprise he had ever experienced.
Blakeney had evidently guessed that much, and no doubt his resourceful brain had already formed some plan by which he could turn this unexpected interview to account. Marguerite up in the loft had not moved.
She had made a solemn promise to Sir Andrew not to speak to her husband before strangers, and she had sufficient self-control not to throw herself unreasoningly and impulsively across his plans.
To sit still and watch these two men together was a terrible trial of fortitude.
Marguerite had heard Chauvelin give the orders for the patrolling of all the roads.
She knew that if Percy now left the "Chat Gris"-in whichever direction he happened to go-he could not go far without being sighted by some of Captain Jutley's men on patrol.
On the other hand, if he stayed, then Desgas would have time to come back with the half-dozen men Chauvelin had specially ordered. The trap was closing in, and Marguerite could do nothing but watch and wonder.
The two men looked such a strange contrast, and of the two it was Chauvelin who exhibited a slight touch of fear.
Marguerite knew him well enough to guess what was passing in his mind.
He had no fear for his own person, although he certainly was alone in a lonely inn with a man who was powerfully built, and who was daring and reckless beyond the bounds of probability.
I seem to have upset you . . . eating soup, too . . . nasty, awkward thing, soup . . . er . . .
La! you don't mind?" he added, apologetically, as he sat down on a chair close to the table and drew the soup tureen towards him.
You must excuse me-h'm-I thought you the other side of the Channel.
Sudden surprise almost took my breath away." "La!" said Sir Percy, with a good-humoured grin, "it did that quite, didn't it-er-M.-er-Chaubertin?" "Pardon me-Chauvelin." "I beg pardon-a thousand times.
Yes-Chauvelin of course. . . .
This place, after all, might be infested with spies; the innkeeper might be in Chauvelin's pay.
One call on Chauvelin's part might bring twenty men about Blakeney's ears for aught he knew, and he might be caught and trapped before he could help or, at least, warn the fugitives.
This he would not risk; he meant to help the others, to get _them_ safely away; for he had pledged his word to them, and his word he _would_ keep.
The calm impudence of his antagonist had evidently thrown him off his usual balance. "But, la!
I hope you don't mind my having made the remark? . . .
Demmed bad form making remarks. . . . I hope you don't mind?" "No, no, not at all-hem!
There was a pause, during which Marguerite could watch these two antagonists who, evidently in their minds, were measuring themselves against one another.
She could see Percy almost full face where he sat at the table not ten yards from where she herself was crouching, puzzled, not knowing what to do, or what she should think.
She had quite controlled her impulse by now of rushing down and disclosing herself to her husband.
Only as far as Lille-not Paris for me . . . beastly uncomfortable place Paris, just now . . . eh, Monsieur Chaubertin . . . beg pardon . . .
Old Pitt daren't say 'Bo' to a goose.
You are in a hurry, sir," he added, as Chauvelin once again took out his watch; "an appointment, perhaps. . . .
I pray you take no heed of me. . . .
My time's my own." He rose from the table and dragged a chair to the hearth.
Once more Marguerite was terribly tempted to go to him, for time was getting on; Desgas might be back at any moment with his men.
Percy did not know that and . . . oh! how horrible it all was-and how helpless she felt. "I am in no hurry," continued Percy, pleasantly, "but, la!
I don't want to spend any more time than I can help in this God-forsaken hole!
But, begad! sir," he added, as Chauvelin had surreptitiously looked at his watch for the third time, "that watch of yours won't go any faster for all the looking you give it.
But, I say, come by the fire . . . it's getting demmed cold." He kicked the fire with the heel of his boot, making the logs blaze in the old hearth.
He seemed in no hurry to go, and apparently was quite unconscious of his immediate danger.
He dragged another chair to the fire, and Chauvelin, whose impatience was by now quite beyond control, sat down beside the hearth, in such a way as to command a view of the door.
Desgas had been gone nearly a quarter of an hour.
It was quite plain to Marguerite's aching senses that as soon as he arrived, Chauvelin would abandon all his other plans with regard to the fugitives, and capture this impudent Scarlet Pimpernel at once. "Hey, M.
Chauvelin," the latter was saying airily, "tell me, I pray you, is your friend pretty?
Demmed smart these little French women sometimes-what?
But I protest I need not ask," he added, as he carelessly strode back towards the supper-table.
In matters of taste the Church has never been backward. . . .
Eh?" But Chauvelin was not listening.
His every faculty was now concentrated on that door through which presently Desgas would enter.
Marguerite's thoughts, too, were centred there, for her ears had suddenly caught, through the stillness of the night, the sound of numerous and measured treads some distance away. It was Desgas and his men.
Another three minutes and they would be here!
Another three minutes and the awful thing would have occurred: the brave eagle would have fallen in the ferret's trap!
She would have moved now and screamed, but she dared not; for whilst she heard the soldiers approaching, she was looking at Percy and watching his every movement.
He was standing by the table whereon the remnants of the supper, plates, glasses, spoons, salt and pepper-pots were scattered pell-mell.
Did you speak, sir?" Chauvelin had been too intent on listening to the sound of those approaching footsteps, to notice what his cunning adversary had been doing.
It all was so neat, so ingenious.
For the moment, true, Chauvelin was helpless; for the moment the daring Scarlet Pimpernel had not been caught by Desgas and his men.
But all the roads and the beach were patrolled.
Every place was watched, and every stranger kept in sight.
The moon is not yet up, and . . ." "And you are just five minutes too late, my friend," said Chauvelin, with concentrated fury. "Citoyen . . .
I . . ." "You did what I ordered you to do," said Chauvelin, with impatience.
I know that, but you were a precious long time about it.
Fortunately, there's not much harm done, or it had fared ill with you, Citoyen Desgas." Desgas turned a little pale.
There was so much rage and hatred in his superior's whole attitude. "The tall stranger, citoyen-" he stammered. "Was here, in this room, five minutes ago, having supper at that table. Damn his impudence!
They are to shadow-as secretly as possible-any stranger they may see, especially if he be tall, or stoop as if he would disguise his height." "In no case to detain such a person, of course," said Chauvelin, eagerly.
That impudent Scarlet Pimpernel would slip through clumsy fingers.
Her own helplessness struck her with the terrible sense of utter disappointment.
Thus several minutes went by.
Chauvelin was evidently devoured with impatience.
It was only after a time and with plenty of kicks, that she at last could be made to move," said the Jew with a malicious chuckle. "Then they started?" "Yes, they started about five minutes ago.
I was disgusted with that stranger's folly.
Reuben is such a liar, and has such insinuating ways. The stranger was deceived.
Marguerite's heart was beating well-nigh to bursting.
She had heard the peremptory question; she looked anxiously at the Jew, but could not read his face beneath the shadow of his broad-brimmed hat.
One rolled away, and he had some trouble to get it, for it had lodged underneath the dresser.
Will your Excellency deign to look?" "I don't want to see it.
Do you accept the bargain?" The Jew again thoughtfully rubbed his chin.
He looked at the money in his hand, then at his stern interlocutor, and at Desgas, who had stood silently behind him all this while.
We shall corner our game there, I'll warrant, for this impudent Scarlet Pimpernel has had the audacity-or the stupidity, I hardly know which-to adhere to his original plans.
He has gone to meet de Tournay, St. Just and the other traitors, which for the moment, I thought, perhaps, he did not intend to do.
When we find them, there will be a band of desperate men at bay.
Some of our men will, I presume, be put _hors de combat_.
These royalists are good swordsmen, and the Englishman is devilish cunning, and looks very powerful.
Still, we shall be five against one at least.
You can follow the cart closely with your men, all along the St. Martin Road, through Miquelon.
The Englishman is ahead of us, and not likely to look behind him." Whilst he gave these curt and concise orders, he had completed his change of attire.
The priest's costume had been laid aside, and he was once more dressed in his usual dark, tight-fitting clothes.
At last he took up his hat. "I shall have an interesting prisoner to deliver into your hands," he said with a chuckle, as with unwonted familiarity he took Desgas' arm, and led him towards the door.
We won't kill him outright, eh, friend Desgas?
Choose your men well, friend Desgas . . . of the sort who would enjoy that type of sport-eh?
The last sounds outside the "Chat Gris" had died away in the night.
She even thought it best not to keep too near to the cart; everything was so still, that the rumble of the wheels could not fail to be a safe guide. The loneliness was absolute.
And ahead the rumble of the wheels, bearing an implacable enemy to his triumph. Marguerite wondered at what particular spot, on this lonely coast, Percy could be at this moment.
Not very far surely, for he had had less than a quarter of an hour's start of Chauvelin.
He rubbed his hands together, with content, as he thought of the web which he had woven, and through which that ubiquitous and daring Englishman could not hope to escape.
Caught, red-handed, on the spot, in the very act of aiding and abetting the traitors against the Republic of France, the Englishman could claim no protection from his own country.
As a matter of fact, Chauvelin had ceased even to think of her: she had been a useful tool, that was all. The Jew's lean nag did little more than walk.
For some time she had been on the alert thinking that Desgas and his squad would soon overtake them, but these came from the opposite direction, presumably from Miquelon.
The darkness lent her sufficient cover.
Every stranger on these roads or on the beach must be shadowed, especially if he be tall or stoops as if he would disguise his height; when sighted a mounted messenger must at once ride back and report.
Those had been Chauvelin's orders.
When we first sighted it, it seemed to be empty, and at first we thought that there was nothing suspicious about it, until we saw some smoke issuing through an aperture at the side.
I dismounted and crept close to it.
It was then empty, but in one corner of the hut, there was a charcoal fire, and a couple of stools were also in the hut.
One was young, the other quite old.
They were talking in a whisper, to one another, and I could not hear what they said." One was young, the other quite old.
The hut is very roughly built, and I caught snatches of their conversation." "Yes?-Quick!-What did you hear?" "The old man asked the young one if he were sure that was the right place.
Oh, yes,' he replied, ''tis the place sure enough,' and by the light of the charcoal fire he showed to his companion a paper, which he carried.
Here is the plan,' he said, 'which he gave me before I left London.
We were to adhere strictly to that plan, unless I had contrary orders, and I have had none.
I must have made a slight noise then, for the young man came to the door of the hut, and peered anxiously all round him.
In any case they would not let the stranger go." "Aye! but I did not want the stranger hurt-not just yet," murmured Chauvelin, savagely, "but there, you've done your best.
Here! there is not a moment to lose.
Let your comrade take both your horses back to Calais.
She thought it unsafe to stay where she was, and unnecessary too, as she had heard enough.
Within two short leagues of this spot, the fugitives were waiting for their brave deliverer.
They would all be captured.
To see her husband once again, to tell him how she had suffered, how much she had wronged, and how little understood him, had become now her only aim.
She thought of the ravenous beasts-in human shape-who lay in wait for their prey, and destroyed them, as mercilessly as any hungry wolf, for the satisfaction of their own appetite of hate.
Her knees shook under her, from sheer bodily fatigue.
They had come to their destination.
Chauvelin and Desgas, followed by the soldiers, had turned off sharply to the right of the road, apparently on to the footpath, which led to the cliffs.
Before we begin to descend the cliff, you shall creep down to the hut, as noiselessly as possible, and ascertain if the traitor royalists are there?
Perhaps they do," he added drily. "We listen, citoyen," said Desgas, "and a soldier of the Republic never forgets an order." "You, who have crept up to the hut, will try to peep inside.
If an Englishman is there with those traitors, a man who is tall above the average, or who stoops as if he would disguise his height, then give a sharp, quick whistle as a signal to your comrades.
You shall stay here, do you hear? with your horse and cart until our return.
You are on no account to utter the faintest sound, or even to breathe louder than you can help; nor are you, on any consideration whatever, to leave your post, until I give you orders to do so.
Do you understand?" "But your Honour-" protested the Jew pitiably. "There is no question of 'but' or of any argument," said Chauvelin, in a tone that made the timid old man tremble from head to foot.
If midnight marauders should come prowling round this lonely road, I might scream or run in my fright!
Here, Citoyen Desgas, tie this handkerchief tightly round the fellow's mouth." Chauvelin handed a scarf to Desgas, who solemnly began winding it round the Jew's mouth.
Meekly Benjamin Rosenbaum allowed himself to be gagged; he, evidently, preferred this uncomfortable state to that of being left alone, on the dark St. Martin Road.
She vaguely wondered who the others were, who were also calmly waiting for the Scarlet Pimpernel, while death lurked behind every boulder of the cliffs. For the moment she could do nothing but follow the soldiers and Chauvelin.
Her effort might be premature, and she would never be allowed to make another.
There was the edge of the cliff, and some way below was the hut, where presently, her husband would meet his death.
She peeped down the great rugged cliffs-the descent would be easy enough, as they were not precipitous, and the great boulders afforded plenty of foothold.
Suddenly, as she gazed, she saw at some little distance on her left, and about midway down the cliffs, a rough wooden construction, through the walls of which a tiny red light glimmered like a beacon.
When, suddenly, a crevice, or stone, or slippery bit of rock, threw her violently to the ground.
She struggled again to her feet, and started running forward once more to give them that timely warning, to beg them to flee before he came, and to tell him to keep away-away from this death-trap-away from this awful doom.
But now she realised that other steps, quicker than her own, were already close at her heels.
The moon was hidden again behind some clouds, and the darkness seemed in comparison more intense.
But we cannot see her boat." "Have the men taken cover?" "Yes, citoyen." "They will not blunder?" "They will not stir until the tall Englishman comes, then they will surround and overpower the five men." "Right.
And the lady?" "Still dazed, I fancy.
She's close beside you, citoyen." "And the Jew?" "He's gagged, and his legs strapped together.
He cannot move or scream." "Good.
Then have your gun ready, in case you want it.
The purpose then, for which I have travelled all these miles, will remain unaccomplished.
Marguerite's hand seemed to convey to his, in response. "To remain-on this spot, without uttering a sound, until I give you leave to speak.
My men have strict orders to spare him in every way.
As for that enigmatic Scarlet Pimpernel, what is he to you?
Believe me, no warning from you could possibly save him. And now dear lady, let me remove this unpleasant coercion, which has been placed before your pretty mouth.
She certainly did not scream: at that moment, she had no strength to do anything but barely to hold herself upright, and to force herself to think. Oh! think! think! think! of what she should do.
More and more unreal did the whole situation seem.
He had played upon her feelings as a skilful musician plays upon an instrument.
And little Suzanne's father, too! he, an old man; and the others!-oh! it was all too, too horrible. Wait! wait! wait! how long?
She felt, more than she heard, the men on the watch preparing for the fight.
Armand! for God's sake fire! your leader is near! he is coming! he is betrayed!
Armand! fire in Heaven's name!" She was seized and thrown to the ground.
She lay there moaning, bruised, not caring, but still half-sobbing, half-shrieking,- "Percy, my husband, for God's sake fly!
In the far, very far distance, could be heard faintly echoing and already dying away, the quick, sharp splash of half a dozen oars.
He must have remained behind, and was even now hiding somewhere about the cliffs; the patrols were still about, he would still be sighted, no doubt.
The boat had undoubtedly been on the look-out behind that first creek, a mile off, but she had shoved off some time ago, when we got to the beach, and was already some way out to sea.
We fired after her, but of course, it was no good.
She was making straight and quickly for the schooner.
We saw her very clearly in the moonlight." "Yes," said Chauvelin, with eager impatience, "she had shoved off some time ago, you said, and the nearest creek is a mile further on." "Yes, citoyen!
I ran all the way, straight to the beach, though I guessed the boat would have waited somewhere near the creek, as the tide would reach there earliest.
The boat must have shoved off some minutes before the woman began to scream." Some minutes before the woman began to scream!
Then Chauvelin's hopes had not deceived him.
The Scarlet Pimpernel may have contrived to send the fugitives on ahead by the boat, but he himself had not had time to reach it; he was still on shore, and all the roads were well patrolled.
I shall be there as soon as possible-they must wait for me at a safe distance out at sea, till they hear the usual signal.
Do not delay-and obey these instructions implicitly." "Then there is the signature, citoyen," added the sergeant, as he handed the paper back to Chauvelin. But the latter had not waited an instant.
One phrase of the momentous scrawl had caught his ear.
I know it well." "The Englishman is hoping to reach that creek.
He does _not_ know every stone of these cliffs, he may go there by the longest way round, and in any case he will proceed cautiously for fear of the patrols.
At any rate, there is a chance to get him yet.
Chauvelin listened to them for a moment; the promise of the reward was lending spurs to the soldiers of the Republic.
The gleam of hate and anticipated triumph was once more apparent on his face. Close to him Desgas still stood mute and impassive, waiting for further orders, whilst two soldiers were kneeling beside the prostrate form of Marguerite.
Chauvelin gave his secretary a vicious look.
Eh?" "B . . . b . . . but . . . your Honour . . ." "There is no 'but.
I said, do you remember?" "Y . . . y . . . y . . . yes . . . your Honour!" "What was the bargain?" There was dead silence.
Unfortunately, they are still in Hades, I believe, according to your creed, and cannot help you much in your present trouble.
Now, you did not fulfil your share of the bargain, but I am ready to fulfil mine.
His men, he knew, were spurred on by the hope of the reward.
The howls of Benjamin Rosenbaum were fit to make the dead rise from their graves.
I'll follow." He walked up to where Marguerite lay, and looked down into her face. She had evidently recovered consciousness, and was making feeble efforts to raise herself.
But I go away, secure in the knowledge that I do not leave you unprotected.
Our friend Benjamin here, though a trifle the worse for wear at the present moment, will prove a gallant defender of your fair person, I have no doubt.
At dawn I will send an escort for you; until then, I feel sure that you will find him devoted, though perhaps a trifle slow." Marguerite only had the strength to turn her head away.
Her heart was broken with cruel anguish.
We meet, I hope, soon in London.
How long she lay there she knew not.
All was so solitary, so silent, like unto dreamland.
Zounds! but I'm as weak as a rat!" In a moment Marguerite was on her feet. Was she dreaming?
Percy!" she shrieked hysterically, tortured between doubt and hope, "I am here!
I cannot get away." And still Marguerite did not understand.
She did not realise for at least another ten seconds whence came that voice, so drawly, so dear, but alas! with a strange accent of weakness and of suffering.
There was no one within sight . . . except by that rock . . .
Great God! . . . the Jew! . . .
Was she mad or dreaming? . . . His back was against the pale moonlight, he was half-crouching, trying vainly to raise himself with his arms tightly pinioned.
Percy! . . . my husband!" she gasped, faint with the fulness of her joy.
I am demmed if I can move." When he had drunk some brandy, he forced Marguerite to do likewise. "La! that's better now!
Eh! little woman?" he said, with a sigh of satisfaction.
Heigh-ho! but this is a queer rig-up for Sir Percy Blakeney, Bart., to be found in by his lady, and no mistake.
Begad!" he added, passing his hand over his chin, "I haven't been shaved for nearly twenty hours: I must look a disgusting object.
As for these curls . . ." And laughingly he took off the disfiguring wig and curls, and stretched out his long limbs, which were cramped from many hours' stooping.
She certainly now deserved the name of "the happiest woman in Europe." "It is a case of the blind leading the lame, sweetheart, is it not?" he said with his good-natured smile of old.
I knew that when I slipped through Chauvelin's fingers at the 'Chat Gris,' that he would lie in wait for me here, whichever way I took.
I had met Reuben Goldstein in Calais earlier in the evening.
I could but take the risk.
I know human nature pretty well by now," he added, with a note of sadness in his cheery, young voice, "and I know these Frenchmen out and out.
They so loathe a Jew, that they never come nearer than a couple of yards of him, and begad!
I reckoned on the blind obedience of the soldiers.
Chauvelin had ordered them on pain of death not to stir until the tall Englishman came.
Desgas had thrown me down in a heap quite close to the hut; the soldiers took no notice of the Jew, who had driven Citoyen Chauvelin to this spot.
They obeyed implicitly, fortunately for them and for me.
The soldiers who saw them were equally obedient to Chauvelin's orders.
I waited for nearly half an hour; when I knew that the fugitives were safe I gave the signal, which caused so much stir." And that was the whole story.
Odd's life!" he added merrily, "never fear!
Chauvelin will lose nothing by waiting, I warrant!
Wait till I get him back to England!-La! he shall pay for the thrashing he gave me with compound interest, I promise you." Marguerite laughed.
She remembered him now, tardily and with a pang of remorse. "Aye! you had forgotten him, hadn't you, m'dear?" said Sir Percy, merrily.
He was not in the way when I did not want him, and now he arrives in the nick of time.
My friend!-I have not yet had time to ask you what you were doing in France, when I ordered you to remain in London?
Wait till my shoulders are less sore, and, by Gad, see the punishment you'll get." "Odd's fish!
I'll bear it," said Sir Andrew, with a merry laugh, "seeing that you are alive to give it. . . .
Would you have had me allow Lady Blakeney to do the journey alone?
The boat of the _Day Dream_ will meet us there." "The boat of the _Day Dream_?" "Yes!" he said, with a merry laugh; "another little trick of mine.
He had my orders to go out further to sea, and then towards the west.
When well out of sight of Calais, he will send the galley to a little creek he and I know of, just beyond Gris Nez.
But I . . .
It was a weary tramp, half a league along the stony side of the cliffs, but never for a moment did his courage give way or his muscles yield to fatigue.
Chauvelin, the accredited agent of the French Republican Government, was not present at that or any other social function in London, after that memorable evening at Lord Grenville's ball.
The Communist Manifesto by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels [From the English edition of 1888, edited by Friedrich Engels] Contents I.
POSITION OF THE COMMUNISTS IN RELATION TO THE VARIOUS EXISTING OPPOSITION PARTIES A spectre is haunting Europe-the spectre of Communism.
Where is the Opposition that has not hurled back the branding reproach of Communism, against the more advanced opposition parties, as well as against its reactionary adversaries? Two things result from this fact. I.
Communism is already acknowledged by all European Powers to be itself a Power. II.
It has but established new classes, new conditions of oppression, new forms of struggle in place of the old ones.
Our epoch, the epoch of the bourgeoisie, possesses, however, this distinctive feature: it has simplified the class antagonisms.
From these burgesses the first elements of the bourgeoisie were developed. The discovery of America, the rounding of the Cape, opened up fresh ground for the rising bourgeoisie.
The manufacturing system took its place.
Even manufacture no longer sufficed.
Thereupon, steam and machinery revolutionised industrial production.
This market has given an immense development to commerce, to navigation, to communication by land.
It has pitilessly torn asunder the motley feudal ties that bound man to his "natural superiors," and has left remaining no other nexus between man and man than naked self-interest, than callous "cash payment.
It has drowned the most heavenly ecstasies of religious fervour, of chivalrous enthusiasm, of philistine sentimentalism, in the icy water of egotistical calculation.
It has resolved personal worth into exchange value, and in place of the numberless and indefeasible chartered freedoms, has set up that single, unconscionable freedom-Free Trade.
In one word, for exploitation, veiled by religious and political illusions, naked, shameless, direct, brutal exploitation. The bourgeoisie has stripped of its halo every occupation hitherto honoured and looked up to with reverent awe.
It has been the first to show what man's activity can bring about.
Conservation of the old modes of production in unaltered form, was, on the contrary, the first condition of existence for all earlier industrial classes.
Constant revolutionising of production, uninterrupted disturbance of all social conditions, everlasting uncertainty and agitation distinguish the bourgeois epoch from all earlier ones.
All fixed, fast-frozen relations, with their train of ancient and venerable prejudices and opinions, are swept away, all new-formed ones become antiquated before they can ossify.
It must nestle everywhere, settle everywhere, establish connexions everywhere. The bourgeoisie has through its exploitation of the world-market given a cosmopolitan character to production and consumption in every country.
To the great chagrin of Reactionists, it has drawn from under the feet of industry the national ground on which it stood.
All old-established national industries have been destroyed or are daily being destroyed.
In place of the old wants, satisfied by the productions of the country, we find new wants, requiring for their satisfaction the products of distant lands and climes.
In place of the old local and national seclusion and self-sufficiency, we have intercourse in every direction, universal inter-dependence of nations.
And as in material, so also in intellectual production.
The intellectual creations of individual nations become common property.
The cheap prices of its commodities are the heavy artillery with which it batters down all Chinese walls, with which it forces the barbarians' intensely obstinate hatred of foreigners to capitulate.
It compels all nations, on pain of extinction, to adopt the bourgeois mode of production; it compels them to introduce what it calls civilisation into their midst, _i.e_., to become bourgeois themselves.
In one word, it creates a world after its own image. The bourgeoisie has subjected the country to the rule of the towns.
It has created enormous cities, has greatly increased the urban population as compared with the rural, and has thus rescued a considerable part of the population from the idiocy of rural life.
The bourgeoisie, during its rule of scarce one hundred years, has created more massive and more colossal productive forces than have all preceding generations together.
It is enough to mention the commercial crises that by their periodical return put on its trial, each time more threateningly, the existence of the entire bourgeois society.
In these crises a great part not only of the existing products, but also of the previously created productive forces, are periodically destroyed.
In these crises there breaks out an epidemic that, in all earlier epochs, would have seemed an absurdity-the epidemic of over-production.
Because there is too much civilisation, too much means of subsistence, too much industry, too much commerce.
The conditions of bourgeois society are too narrow to comprise the wealth created by them.
And how does the bourgeoisie get over these crises?
On the one hand inforced destruction of a mass of productive forces; on the other, by the conquest of new markets, and by the more thorough exploitation of the old ones.
He becomes an appendage of the machine, and it is only the most simple, most monotonous, and most easily acquired knack, that is required of him.
Hence, the cost of production of a workman is restricted, almost entirely, to the means of subsistence that he requires for his maintenance, and for the propagation of his race.
But the price of a commodity, and therefore also of labour, is equal to its cost of production.
In proportion therefore, as the repulsiveness of the work increases, the wage decreases.
Masses of labourers, crowded into the factory, are organised like soldiers.
As privates of the industrial army they are placed under the command of a perfect hierarchy of officers and sergeants.
Not only are they slaves of the bourgeois class, and of the bourgeois State; they are daily and hourly enslaved by the machine, by the over-looker, and, above all, by the individual bourgeois manufacturer himself.
Differences of age and sex have no longer any distinctive social validity for the working class.
Thus the proletariat is recruited from all classes of the population. The proletariat goes through various stages of development.
With its birth begins its struggle with the bourgeoisie.
At first the contest is carried on by individual labourers, then by the workpeople of a factory, then by the operatives of one trade, in one locality, against the individual bourgeois who directly exploits them.
At this stage, therefore, the proletarians do not fight their enemies, but the enemies of their enemies, the remnants of absolute monarchy, the landowners, the non-industrial bourgeois, the petty bourgeoisie.
Thereupon the workers begin to form combinations (Trades Unions) against the bourgeois; they club together in order to keep up the rate of wages; they found permanent associations in order to make provision beforehand for these occasional revolts.
Here and there the contest breaks out into riots. Now and then the workers are victorious, but only for a time.
The real fruit of their battles lies, not in the immediate result, but in the ever-expanding union of the workers.
This union is helped on by the improved means of communication that are created by modern industry and that place the workers of different localities in contact with one another.
It was just this contact that was needed to centralise the numerous local struggles, all of the same character, into one national struggle between classes.
But every class struggle is a political struggle.
But it ever rises up again, stronger, firmer, mightier.
It compels legislative recognition of particular interests of the workers, by taking advantage of the divisions among the bourgeoisie itself.
Thus the ten-hours' bill in England was carried. Altogether collisions between the classes of the old society further, in many ways, the course of development of the proletariat.
The bourgeoisie finds itself involved in a constant battle.
At first with the aristocracy; later on, with those portions of the bourgeoisie itself, whose interests have become antagonistic to the progress of industry; at all times, with the bourgeoisie of foreign countries.
In all these battles it sees itself compelled to appeal to the proletariat, to ask for its help, and thus, to drag it into the political arena.
The other classes decay and finally disappear in the face of Modern Industry; the proletariat is its special and essential product.
The lower middle class, the small manufacturer, the shopkeeper, the artisan, the peasant, all these fight against the bourgeoisie, to save from extinction their existence as fractions of the middle class.
They are therefore not revolutionary, but conservative.
Nay more, they are reactionary, for they try to roll back the wheel of history.
The proletarians cannot become masters of the productive forces of society, except by abolishing their own previous mode of appropriation, and thereby also every other previous mode of appropriation.
They have nothing of their own to secure and to fortify; their mission is to destroy all previous securities for, and insurances of, individual property. All previous historical movements were movements of minorities, or in the interests of minorities.
The proletarian movement is the self-conscious, independent movement of the immense majority, in the interests of the immense majority.
But in order to oppress a class, certain conditions must be assured to it under which it can, at least, continue its slavish existence.
The serf, in the period of serfdom, raised himself to membership in the commune, just as the petty bourgeois, under the yoke of feudal absolutism, managed to develop into a bourgeois.
The modern laborer, on the contrary, instead of rising with the progress of industry, sinks deeper and deeper below the conditions of existence of his own class.
He becomes a pauper, and pauperism develops more rapidly than population and wealth.
And here it becomes evident, that the bourgeoisie is unfit any longer to be the ruling class in society, and to impose its conditions of existence upon society as an over-riding law.
Wage-labour rests exclusively on competition between the laborers.
The advance of industry, whose involuntary promoter is the bourgeoisie, replaces the isolation of the labourers, due to competition, by their revolutionary combination, due to association.
The development of Modern Industry, therefore, cuts from under its feet the very foundation on which the bourgeoisie produces and appropriates products.
What the bourgeoisie, therefore, produces, above all, is its own grave-diggers.
They merely express, in general terms, actual relations springing from an existing class struggle, from a historical movement going on under our very eyes.
Do you mean the property of the petty artisan and of the small peasant, a form of property that preceded the bourgeois form?
Not a bit. It creates capital, i.e., that kind of property which exploits wage-labour, and which cannot increase except upon condition of begetting a new supply of wage-labour for fresh exploitation.
Property, in its present form, is based on the antagonism of capital and wage-labour.
Let us examine both sides of this antagonism. To be a capitalist, is to have not only a purely personal, but a social _status_ in production.
It is only the social character of the property that is changed.
It loses its class-character. Let us now take wage-labour. The average price of wage-labour is the minimum wage, _i.e_., that quantum of the means of subsistence, which is absolutely requisite in bare existence as a labourer.
What, therefore, the wage-labourer appropriates by means of his labour, merely suffices to prolong and reproduce a bare existence.
We by no means intend to abolish this personal appropriation of the products of labour, an appropriation that is made for the maintenance and reproduction of human life, and that leaves no surplus wherewith to command the labour of others.
In Communist society, accumulated labour is but a means to widen, to enrich, to promote the existence of the labourer. In bourgeois society, therefore, the past dominates the present; in Communist society, the present dominates the past.
In bourgeois society capital is independent and has individuality, while the living person is dependent and has no individuality. And the abolition of this state of things is called by the bourgeois, abolition of individuality and freedom!
Even the most radical flare up at this infamous proposal of the Communists. On what foundation is the present family, the bourgeois family, based? On capital, on private gain.
In its completely developed form this family exists only among the bourgeoisie.
To this crime we plead guilty. But, you will say, we destroy the most hallowed of relations, when we replace home education by social. And your education!
Is not that also social, and determined by the social conditions under which you educate, by the intervention, direct or indirect, of society, by means of schools, etc.?
We cannot take from them what they have not got.
When Christian ideas succumbed in the 18th century to rationalist ideas, feudal society fought its death battle with the then revolutionary bourgeoisie.
But religion, morality philosophy, political science, and law, constantly survived this change." "There are, besides, eternal truths, such as Freedom, Justice, etc. that are common to all states of society.
But Communism abolishes eternal truths, it abolishes all religion, and all morality, instead of constituting them on a new basis; it therefore acts in contradiction to all past historical experience." What does this accusation reduce itself to?
Abolition of property in land and application of all rents of land to public purposes. 2.
A heavy progressive or graduated income tax. 3.
Abolition of all right of inheritance. 4.
Confiscation of the property of all emigrants and rebels. 5.
Centralisation of credit in the hands of the State, by means of a national bank with State capital and an exclusive monopoly. 6.
Centralisation of the means of communication and transport in the hands of the State. 7.
Extension of factories and instruments of production owned by the State; the bringing into cultivation of waste-lands, and the improvement of the soil generally in accordance with a common plan. 8.
Equal liability of all to labour.
Establishment of industrial armies, especially for agriculture. 9.
Combination of agriculture with manufacturing industries; gradual abolition of the distinction between town and country, by a more equable distribution of the population over the country. 10.
Free education for all children in public schools.
Abolition of children's factory labour in its present form.
Political power, properly so called, is merely the organised power of one class for oppressing another.
Feudal Socialism_ Owing to their historical position, it became the vocation of the aristocracies of France and England to write pamphlets against modern bourgeois society.
In the French revolution of July 1830, and in the English reform agitation, these aristocracies again succumbed to the hateful upstart.
Thenceforth, a serious political contest was altogether out of the question.
A literary battle alone remained possible.
Has it not preached in the place of these, charity and poverty, celibacy and mortification of the flesh, monastic life and Mother Church?
Christian Socialism is but the holy water with which the priest consecrates the heart-burnings of the aristocrat. _B.
Petty-Bourgeois Socialism_ The feudal aristocracy was not the only class that was ruined by the bourgeoisie, not the only class whose conditions of existence pined and perished in the atmosphere of modern bourgeois society.
The mediaeval burgesses and the small peasant proprietors were the precursors of the modern bourgeoisie.
Sismondi was the head of this school, not only in France but also in England. This school of Socialism dissected with great acuteness the contradictions in the conditions of modern production.
It laid bare the hypocritical apologies of economists.
In contact with German social conditions, this French literature lost all its immediate practical significance, and assumed a purely literary aspect.
The German _literati_ reversed this process with the profane French literature.
They wrote their philosophical nonsense beneath the French original.
The industrial and political supremacy of the bourgeoisie threatens it with certain destruction; on the one hand, from the concentration of capital; on the other, from the rise of a revolutionary proletariat.
True" Socialism appeared to kill these two birds with one stone.
To every villainous meanness of this model man it gave a hidden, higher, Socialistic interpretation, the exact contrary of its real character.
It went to the extreme length of directly opposing the "brutally destructive" tendency of Communism, and of proclaiming its supreme and impartial contempt of all class struggles.
With very few exceptions, all the so-called Socialist and Communist publications that now (1847) circulate in Germany belong to the domain of this foul and enervating literature. 2.
They desire the existing state of society minus its revolutionary and disintegrating elements.
They wish for a bourgeoisie without a proletariat.
Protective duties: for the benefit of the working class.
Prison Reform: for the benefit of the working class.
This is the last word and the only seriously meant word of bourgeois Socialism. It is summed up in the phrase: the bourgeois is a bourgeois-for the benefit of the working class. 3.
Bourgeois and Proletarians). The founders of these systems see, indeed, the class antagonisms, as well as the action of the decomposing elements, in the prevailing form of society.
They want to improve the condition of every member of society, even that of the most favoured.
Hence, they habitually appeal to society at large, without distinction of class; nay, by preference, to the ruling class.
They attack every principle of existing society.
Hence they are full of the most valuable materials for the enlightenment of the working class.
These proposals, therefore, are of a purely Utopian character. The significance of Critical-Utopian Socialism and Communism bears an inverse relation to historical development.
In proportion as the modern class struggle develops and takes definite shape, this fantastic standing apart from the contest, these fantastic attacks on it, lose all practical value and all theoretical justification.
Therefore, although the originators of these systems were, in many respects, revolutionary, their disciples have, in every case, formed mere reactionary sects.
They hold fast by the original views of their masters, in opposition to the progressive historical development of the proletariat.
They, therefore, endeavour, and that consistently, to deaden the class struggle and to reconcile the class antagonisms.
They openly declare that their ends can be attained only by the forcible overthrow of all existing social conditions.
Let the ruling classes tremble at a Communistic revolution.
The proletarians have nothing to lose but their chains.
They have a world to win. WORKING MEN OF ALL COUNTRIES, UNITE!
His features were regular and clear cut, his hair black and closely cropped, while his eyes were of a steel gray, reflecting a strong and loyal character, filled with fire and initiative.
His manners were perfect, and his courtliness was that of a typical southern gentleman of the highest type. His horsemanship, especially after hounds, was a marvel and delight even in that country of magnificent horsemen.
When he returned it was without warning, and I was much surprised to note that he had not aged apparently a moment, nor had he changed in any other outward way.
Left alone in the study, I opened the safe and withdrew the contents of the drawer in which he had told me I would find my instructions.
Possibly I am a hundred, possibly more; but I cannot tell because I have never aged as other men, nor do I remember any childhood.
So far as I can recollect I have always been a man, a man of about thirty.
I appear today as I did forty years and more ago, and yet I feel that I cannot go on living forever; that some day I shall die the real death from which there is no resurrection.
We were extremely fortunate, for late in the winter of 1865, after many hardships and privations, we located the most remarkable gold-bearing quartz vein that our wildest dreams had ever pictured.
Possibly I had conjured up impossible dangers, like some nervous old housewife, and when I should catch up with Powell would get a good laugh for my pains.
Their attention was so wholly riveted to this point of interest that they did not notice me, and I easily could have turned back into the dark recesses of the gorge and made my escape with perfect safety.
My mind is evidently so constituted that I am subconsciously forced into the path of duty without recourse to tiresome mental processes.
Under the clear rays of the Arizona moon lay Powell, his body fairly bristling with the hostile arrows of the braves.
The trail was level and quite broad and led upward and in the general direction I wished to go.
I found a large chamber, possibly a hundred feet in diameter and thirty or forty feet in height; a smooth and well-worn floor, and many other evidences that the cave had, at some remote period, been inhabited.
I attempted to spring to my feet but was horrified to discover that my muscles refused to respond to my will.
I was now thoroughly awake, but as unable to move a muscle as though turned to stone.
It was then, for the first time, that I noticed a slight vapor filling the cave.
It was extremely tenuous and only noticeable against the opening which led to daylight.
The noise of the approaching horses had ceased, and I judged the Indians were creeping stealthily upon me along the little ledge which led to my living tomb.
And then another savage face appeared, and a third and fourth and fifth, craning their necks over the shoulders of their fellows whom they could not pass upon the narrow ledge.
Each face was the picture of awe and fear, but for what reason I did not know, nor did I learn until ten years later.
So frantic were their efforts to escape from the unseen thing behind me that one of the braves was hurled headlong from the cliff to the rocks below.
The shock to my already overstrained nervous system was terrible in the extreme, and with a superhuman effort I strove to break my awful bonds.
It was an effort of the mind, of the will, of the nerves; not muscular, for I could not move even so much as my little finger, but none the less mighty for all that.
My first thought was, is this then death!
Have I indeed passed over forever into that other life!
But I could not well believe this, as I could feel my heart pounding against my ribs from the exertion of my efforts to release myself from the anaesthesis which had held me.
Naked and unarmed as I was, I had no desire to face the unseen thing which menaced me. My revolvers were strapped to my lifeless body which, for some unfathomable reason, I could not bring myself to touch.
My carbine was in its boot, strapped to my saddle, and as my horse had wandered off I was left without means of defense.
The crisp, fresh mountain air outside the cave acted as an immediate tonic and I felt new life and new courage coursing through me.
Pausing upon the brink of the ledge I upbraided myself for what now seemed to me wholly unwarranted apprehension.
My attention was quickly riveted by a large red star close to the distant horizon.
As I gazed upon it I felt a spell of overpowering fascination-it was Mars, the god of war, and for me, the fighting man, it had always held the power of irresistible enchantment.
There was an instant of extreme cold and utter darkness. CHAPTER III MY ADVENT ON MARS I opened my eyes upon a strange and weird landscape.
I knew that I was on Mars; not once did I question either my sanity or my wakefulness.
I was not asleep, no need for pinching here; my inner consciousness told me as plainly that I was upon Mars as your conscious mind tells you that you are upon Earth.
You do not question the fact; neither did I. I found myself lying prone upon a bed of yellowish, mosslike vegetation which stretched around me in all directions for interminable miles.
Here and there were slight outcroppings of quartz-bearing rock which glistened in the sunlight; and a little to my left, perhaps a hundred yards, appeared a low, walled enclosure about four feet in height.
I alighted softly upon the ground, however, without appreciable shock or jar.
Now commenced a series of evolutions which even then seemed ludicrous in the extreme.
Their noses were but longitudinal slits in the center of their faces, midway between their mouths and ears. There was no hair on their bodies, which were of a very light yellowish-green color.
In the adults, as I was to learn quite soon, this color deepens to an olive green and is darker in the male than in the female.
Further, the heads of the adults are not so out of proportion to their bodies as in the case of the young. The iris of the eyes is blood red, as in Albinos, while the pupil is dark.
The eyeball itself is very white, as are the teeth.
These latter add a most ferocious appearance to an otherwise fearsome and terrible countenance, as the lower tusks curve upward to sharp points which end about where the eyes of earthly human beings are located.
The whiteness of the teeth is not that of ivory, but of the snowiest and most gleaming of china.
The man himself, for such I may call him, was fully fifteen feet in height and, on Earth, would have weighed some four hundred pounds.
How can earthly words describe it!
Its belly was white, and its legs shaded from the slate of its shoulders and hips to a vivid yellow at the feet.
The feet themselves were heavily padded and nailless, which fact had also contributed to the noiselessness of their approach, and, in common with a multiplicity of legs, is a characteristic feature of the fauna of Mars.
Some were surveying me with expressions which I afterward discovered marked extreme astonishment, and the others were evidently satisfying themselves that I had not molested their young. They were conversing together in low tones, and gesticulating and pointing toward me.
The metal of the barrel is an alloy composed principally of aluminum and steel which they have learned to temper to a hardness far exceeding that of the steel with which we are familiar.
His wide mouth spread into an answering smile, and locking one of his intermediary arms in mine we turned and walked back toward his mount.
At the same time he motioned his followers to advance.
They started toward us on a wild run, but were checked by a signal from him.
The women varied in appearance but little from the men, except that their tusks were much larger in proportion to their height, in some instances curving nearly to their high-set ears.
Their bodies were smaller and lighter in color, and their fingers and toes bore the rudiments of nails, which were entirely lacking among the males.
It was constructed of gleaming white marble inlaid with gold and brilliant stones which sparkled and scintillated in the sunlight.
The main entrance was some hundred feet in width and projected from the building proper to form a huge canopy above the entrance hall.
On the platform proper squatted an enormous warrior heavily loaded with metal ornaments, gay-colored feathers and beautifully wrought leather trappings ingeniously set with precious stones.
Again locking his arm in mine, we had proceeded into the audience chamber.
There were few formalities observed in approaching the Martian chieftain.
My captor merely strode up to the rostrum, the others making way for him as he advanced.
This fact, and the similar occurrence during my first talk with Tars Tarkas, convinced me that we had at least something in common; the ability to smile, therefore to laugh; denoting a sense of humor.
They first repeated the word "sak" a number of times, and then Tars Tarkas made several jumps, repeating the same word before each leap; then, turning to me, he said, "sak!
I grasped her proffered arm and together we crossed the plaza toward a large building on the far side. My fair companion was about eight feet tall, having just arrived at maturity, but not yet to her full height.
She was of a light olive-green color, with a smooth, glossy hide.
Her name, as I afterward learned, was Sola, and she belonged to the retinue of Tars Tarkas.
In response to her call I obtained my first sight of a new Martian wonder.
It waddled in on its ten short legs, and squatted down before the girl like an obedient puppy.
The mural painting depicted scenes of rare and wonderful beauty; mountains, rivers, lake, ocean, meadow, trees and flowers, winding roadways, sun-kissed gardens-scenes which might have portrayed earthly views but for the different colorings of the vegetation.
These she placed on the floor beside me, and seating herself a short ways off regarded me intently.
The food consisted of about a pound of some solid substance of the consistency of cheese and almost tasteless, while the liquid was apparently milk from some animal.
It was not unpleasant to the taste, though slightly acid, and I learned in a short time to prize it very highly.
The other occupants of the room, five in number, were all females, and they were still sleeping, piled high with a motley array of silks and furs.
As I neared the brute he backed cautiously away from me, and when I had reached the open he moved to one side to let me pass.
Thinking to have some amusement at his expense, I rushed toward him, and when almost upon him sprang into the air, alighting far beyond him and away from the city.
He wheeled instantly and charged me with the most appalling speed I had ever beheld.
I had thought his short legs a bar to swiftness, but had he been coursing with greyhounds the latter would have appeared as though asleep on a door mat.
My exultation was short-lived, however, for scarcely had I gained a secure seat upon the sill than a huge hand grasped me by the neck from behind and dragged me violently into the room.
Their eyes were close together and non-protruding; their ears were high set, but more laterally located than those of the Martians, while their snouts and teeth were strikingly like those of our African gorilla.
The strength, agility, and blind ferocity of these two creatures is approached by nothing known to earthly man.
Back and forth upon the floor they rolled, neither one emitting a sound of fear or pain.
Presently I saw the great eyes of my beast bulging completely from their sockets and blood flowing from its nostrils.
The ape's mate, recovered from its first shock of terror, had returned to the scene of the encounter by way of the interior of the building.
He lay gasping upon the floor of the chamber, his great eyes fastened upon me in what seemed a pitiful appeal for protection.
He was now too close upon me for the cudgel to prove of any effective assistance, so I merely threw it as heavily as I could at his advancing bulk.
The effect was marvelous, for, as I lightly sidestepped, after delivering the second blow, he reeled and fell upon the floor doubled up with pain and gasping for wind.
This encounter, together with my set-to with the Martian warrior on the previous day and my feats of jumping placed me upon a high pinnacle in their regard.
It was well I did so, for the warrior drew an evil looking pistol from its holster and was on the point of putting an end to the creature when I sprang forward and struck up his arm.
The bullet striking the wooden casing of the window exploded, blowing a hole completely through the wood and masonry. I then knelt down beside the fearsome-looking thing, and raising it to its feet motioned for it to follow me.
The looks of surprise which my actions elicited from the Martians were ludicrous; they could not understand, except in a feeble and childish way, such attributes as gratitude and compassion.
In each was seated a female Martian loaded with ornaments of metal, with jewels and silks and furs, and upon the back of each of the beasts which drew the chariots was perched a young Martian driver.
Our way led out across the little valley before the city, through the hills, and down into the dead sea bottom which I had traversed on my journey from the incubator to the plaza.
They ranged in height from three to four feet, and were moving restlessly about the enclosure as though searching for food. As I came to a halt before him, Tars Tarkas pointed over the incubator and said, "Sak.
As I returned, Lorquas Ptomel grunted something at me, and turning to his warriors gave a few words of command relative to the incubator.
Coming from eggs in which they have lain for five years, the period of incubation, they step forth into the world perfectly developed except in size.
But this counts for little among the green Martians, as parental and filial love is as unknown to them as it is common among us.
I believe this horrible system which has been carried on for ages is the direct cause of the loss of all the finer feelings and higher humanitarian instincts among these poor creatures.
Every year these eggs are carefully examined by a council of twenty chieftains, and all but about one hundred of the most perfect are destroyed out of each yearly supply.
At the end of five years about five hundred almost perfect eggs have been chosen from the thousands brought forth.
These are then placed in the almost air-tight incubators to be hatched by the sun's rays after a period of another five years.
The hatching which we had witnessed today was a fairly representative event of its kind, all but about one per cent of the eggs hatching in two days.
If the remaining eggs ever hatched we knew nothing of the fate of the little Martians.
The result of such a catastrophe would mean no children in the community for another five years.
I was later to witness the results of the discovery of an alien incubator. The community of which the green Martians with whom my lot was cast formed a part was composed of some thirty thousand souls.
They roamed an enormous tract of arid and semi-arid land between forty and eighty degrees south latitude, and bounded on the east and west by two large fertile tracts.
On the day following our return all the warriors had ridden forth early in the morning and had not returned until just before darkness fell.
The Martian language, as I have said, is extremely simple, and in a week I could make all my wants known and understand nearly everything that was said to me.
A huge craft, long, low, and gray-painted, swung slowly over the crest of the nearest hill.
I could see figures crowding the forward decks and upper works of the air craft.
Our own fire never diminished, and I doubt if twenty-five per cent of our shots went wild.
Several of the craft were limping perceptibly, and seemed but barely under the control of their depleted crews.
Their fire had ceased entirely and all their energies seemed focused upon escape.
This had received the brunt of our fire and seemed to be entirely unmanned, as not a moving figure was visible upon her decks.
Slowly she swung from her course, circling back toward us in an erratic and pitiful manner.
From my vantage point in the window I could see the bodies of her crew strewn about, although I could not make out what manner of creatures they might be.
I could see them examining the dead sailors, evidently for signs of life, and presently a party of them appeared from below dragging a little figure among them.
The last warrior to leave the deck turned and threw something back upon the vessel, waiting an instant to note the outcome of his act.
As a faint spurt of flame rose from the point where the missile struck he swung over the side and was quickly upon the ground.
The scene I had witnessed seemed to mark the defeat and annihilation of the forces of a kindred people, rather than the routing by our green warriors of a horde of similar, though unfriendly, creatures.
She did not see me at first, but just as she was disappearing through the portal of the building which was to be her prison she turned, and her eyes met mine.
Just a moment we gazed upon each other, and then the look of hope and renewed courage which had glorified her face as she discovered me, faded into one of utter dejection, mingled with loathing and contempt.
I realized I had not answered her signal, and ignorant as I was of Martian customs, I intuitively felt that she had made an appeal for succor and protection which my unfortunate ignorance had prevented me from answering.
They make the powder, the cartridges, the firearms; in fact everything of value is produced by the females.
They make the laws as they are needed; a new law for each emergency.
They are unfettered by precedent in the administration of justice.
I had feared to question Sola relative to the beautiful captive, as I could not but recall the strange expression I had noted upon her face after my first encounter with the prisoner.
In our day we have progressed to a point where such sentiments mark weakness and atavism.
She has never harmed us, nor would she should we have fallen into her hands.
It is only the men of her kind who war upon us, and I have ever thought that their attitude toward us is but the reflection of ours toward them.
Fortunate indeed is he who meets his end in an early death.
Considerable freedom was allowed me, as Sola had informed me that so long as I did not attempt to leave the city I was free to go and come as I pleased.
Before me were low hills pierced by narrow and inviting ravines.
His expression was pleading rather than ferocious, nor did he bare his great tusks or utter his fearful guttural warnings.
My walk to the hills occupied but a few minutes, and I found nothing of particular interest to reward me.
I now knew that while theoretically a prisoner I was virtually free, and I hastened to regain the city limits before the defection of Woola could be discovered by his erstwhile masters.
She was standing with her guards before the entrance to the audience chamber, and as I approached she gave me one haughty glance and turned her back full upon me.
Sola, let me add, was an exception; I never saw her perform a cruel or uncouth act, or fail in uniform kindliness and good nature.
I had not long to wait for presently Lorquas Ptomel and his retinue of chieftains approached the building and, signing the guards to follow with the prisoner entered the audience chamber.
I saw that one of the women was Sarkoja, and thus understood how she had been present at the hearing of the preceding day, the results of which she had reported to the occupants of our dormitory last night.
Her attitude toward the captive was most harsh and brutal.
When she held her, she sunk her rudimentary nails into the poor girl's flesh, or twisted her arm in a most painful manner.
When it was necessary to move from one spot to another she either jerked her roughly, or pushed her headlong before her.
A people without written language, without art, without homes, without love; the victims of eons of the horrible community idea.
Owning everything in common, even to your women and children, has resulted in your owning nothing in common.
You hate each other as you hate all else except yourselves. Come back to the ways of our common ancestors, come back to the light of kindliness and fellowship.
The way is open to you, you will find the hands of the red men stretched out to aid you.
Together we may do still more to regenerate our dying planet.
The granddaughter of the greatest and mightiest of the red jeddaks has asked you.
Will you come?" Lorquas Ptomel and the warriors sat looking silently and intently at the young woman for several moments after she had ceased speaking.
In fact he could do nothing but make a wild and futile attempt to dislodge me.
I was soon successful as her injuries amounted to little more than an ordinary nosebleed, and when she could speak she placed her hand upon my arm and looking up into my eyes, said: "Why did you do it?
You who refused me even friendly recognition in the first hour of my peril!
And now you risk your life and kill one of your companions for my sake.
What strange manner of man are you, that you consort with the green men, though your form is that of my race, while your color is little darker than that of the white ape?
Suffice it, for the present, that I am your friend, and, so far as our captors will permit, your protector and your servant." "Then you too are a prisoner?
But why, then, those arms and the regalia of a Tharkian chieftain?
Should you, in recognition of your remarkable valor, ferocity, and prowess, be considered by Tal Hajus as worthy of his service you may be taken into the community and become a full-fledged Tharkian.
Until we reach the headquarters of Tal Hajus it is the will of Lorquas Ptomel that you be accorded the respect your acts have earned you.
You will be treated by us as a Tharkian chieftain, but you must not forget that every chief who ranks you is responsible for your safe delivery to our mighty and most ferocious ruler.
I am done." "I hear you, Tars Tarkas," I answered.
If you will leave me alone I will go in peace, but if not, let the individual Barsoomians with whom I must deal either respect my rights as a stranger among you, or take whatever consequences may befall.
Of one thing let us be sure, whatever may be your ultimate intentions toward this unfortunate young woman, whoever would offer her injury or insult in the future must figure on making a full accounting to me.
Was I not now a chieftain also!
Well, then, I would assume the responsibilities of one.
The poor child shrank against me and I felt her two little hands fold tightly over my arm.
You are eleventh, there are but ten chieftains in this community who rank you in prowess." "And if I should kill Lorquas Ptomel?
We also found in this building real sleeping apartments with ancient beds of highly wrought metal swinging from enormous gold chains depending from the marble ceilings.
The decoration of the walls was most elaborate, and, unlike the frescoes in the other buildings I had examined, portrayed many human figures in the compositions.
These were of people like myself, and of a much lighter color than Dejah Thoris.
They were clad in graceful, flowing robes, highly ornamented with metal and jewels, and their luxuriant hair was of a beautiful golden and reddish bronze. The men were beardless and only a few wore arms.
You are like unto my people, and yet so unlike.
You speak my language, and yet I heard you tell Tars Tarkas that you had but learned it recently.
Do not tell me that you have thus returned!
Do you believe me?" And then it struck me suddenly that I was very anxious that she should believe me.
It was not that I feared the results which would follow a general belief that I had returned from the Barsoomian heaven or hell, or whatever it was.
Why should I care what she thought?
That it was difficult to believe my statement I well knew, nor could I hope that she would do so however much I craved her confidence and respect.
As a matter of fact it was about the only kind of logic that could be brought to bear upon my problem.
We fell into a general conversation then, asking and answering many questions on each side.
She was curious to learn of the customs of my people and displayed a remarkable knowledge of events on Earth.
She then explained in general the instruments her people had used and been perfecting for ages, which permit them to throw upon a screen a perfect image of what is transpiring upon any planet and upon many of the stars.
These pictures are so perfect in detail that, when photographed and enlarged, objects no greater than a blade of grass may be distinctly recognized.
It seemed that as she had mounted the approach to the upper floors where our quarters were located, she had met Sarkoja descending.
She told me that these people had presumably flourished over a hundred thousand years before.
She said that the city in which we were camping was supposed to have been a center of commerce and culture known as Korad.
It had been built upon a beautiful, natural harbor, landlocked by magnificent hills.
And now you are reported to have been plotting to escape with another prisoner of another race; a prisoner who, from her own admission, half believes you are returned from the valley of Dor.
The safe delivery of the red girl to Tal Hajus is of the greatest importance.
Not in a thousand years have the Tharks made such a capture; she is the granddaughter of the greatest of the red jeddaks, who is also our bitterest enemy.
The red girl told us that we were without the softer sentiments of humanity, but we are a just and truthful race.
You may go." Turning, I left the audience chamber.
So this was the beginning of Sarkoja's persecution!
His demeanor toward me was unchanged, and he greeted me as though we had not just parted a few moments before. "Where are your quarters, John Carter?" he asked. "I have selected none," I replied.
It seemed best that I quartered either by myself or among the other warriors, and I was awaiting an opportunity to ask your advice.
Left alone, I ascended the winding corridor to the upper floors in search of suitable quarters.
All property among the green Martians is owned in common by the community, except the personal weapons, ornaments and sleeping silks and furs of the individuals.
These alone can one claim undisputed right to, nor may he accumulate more of these than are required for his actual needs.
His women are in no sense wives.
The green Martians use no word corresponding in meaning with this earthly word. Their mating is a matter of community interest solely, and is directed without reference to natural selection.
One of the girls I charged with the duties of my simple cuisine, and directed the others to take up the various activities which had formerly constituted their vocations.
The method was not at all complicated.
First I taught them that they could not unseat me, and even rapped them sharply between the ears to impress upon them my authority and mastery.
Then, by degrees, I won their confidence in much the same manner as I had adopted countless times with my many mundane mounts.
I was ever a good hand with animals, and by inclination, as well as because it brought more lasting and satisfactory results, I was always kind and humane in my dealings with the lower orders.
I could take a human life, if necessary, with far less compunction than that of a poor, unreasoning, irresponsible brute. In the course of a few days my thoats were the wonder of the entire community.
You see, Tars Tarkas, the softer sentiments have their value, even to a warrior.
Your other warriors would find it to the advantage of themselves as well as of the community to adopt my methods in this respect.
The few times I had visited her quarters she had been absent, walking upon the streets with Sola, or investigating the buildings in the near vicinity of the plaza.
I had warned them against venturing far from the plaza for fear of the great white apes, whose ferocity I was only too well acquainted with.
I advanced to meet them, and telling Sola that I would take the responsibility for Dejah Thoris' safekeeping, I directed her to return to her quarters on some trivial errand.
They have had me down in the pits below the buildings helping them mix their awful radium powder, and make their terrible projectiles.
You know that these have to be manufactured by artificial light, as exposure to sunlight always results in an explosion.
You have noticed that their bullets explode when they strike an object?
Well, the opaque, outer coating is broken by the impact, exposing a glass cylinder, almost solid, in the forward end of which is a minute particle of radium powder.
The moment the sunlight, even though diffused, strikes this powder it explodes with a violence which nothing can withstand.
If you ever witness a night battle you will note the absence of these explosions, while the morning following the battle will be filled at sunrise with the sharp detonations of exploding missiles fired the preceding night.
That they were keeping her away from me was not a matter for surprise, but that they should subject her to dangerous and arduous labor filled me with rage. "Have they ever subjected you to cruelty and ignominy, Dejah Thoris?
I asked, feeling the hot blood of my fighting ancestors leap in my veins as I awaited her reply. "Only in little ways, John Carter," she answered.
Nothing that can harm me outside my pride.
At heart they hate their horrid fates, and so wreak their poor spite on me who stand for everything they have not, and for all they most crave and never can attain.
A great warrior and yet a stumbling little child." "What have I done now?
I asked, in sore perplexity. "Some day you shall know, John Carter, if we live; but I may not tell you.
At least among civilized men." This made her laugh again.
Only I knew that as my arm rested there across her shoulders longer than the act of adjusting the silk required she did not draw away, nor did she speak.
And so, in silence, we walked the surface of a dying world, but in the breast of one of us at least had been born that which is ever oldest, yet ever new. I loved Dejah Thoris.
I could not chance causing her additional pain or sorrow by declaring a love which, in all probability she did not return.
Possibly you would rather return to Sola and your quarters." "No," she murmured, "I am happy here.
I sat for hours cross-legged, and cross-tempered, upon my silks meditating upon the queer freaks chance plays upon us poor devils of mortals. So this was love!
Such is love, and such are lovers wherever love is known. To me, Dejah Thoris was all that was perfect; all that was virtuous and beautiful and noble and good.
In doing so I noted with horror that she was heavily chained by one ankle to the side of the vehicle. "What does this mean?
I cried, turning to Sola. "Sarkoja thought it best," she answered, her face betokening her disapproval of the procedure. Examining the manacles I saw that they fastened with a massive spring lock. "Where is the key, Sola?
We know that you will not go without her.
You have shown yourself a mighty fighter, and we do not wish to manacle you, so we hold you both in the easiest way that will yet ensure security.
There is no such thing, John Carter; but have your will.
Lord, how she hated me!
In my extremity I did what most other lovers would have done; I sought word from her through an intimate.
In this instance it was Sola whom I intercepted in another part of camp. "What is the matter with Dejah Thoris?
I blurted out at her.
I must rank pretty low in the consideration of Dejah Thoris, I thought; but I could not help laughing at the strange figure of speech, so homely and in this respect so earthly.
It made me homesick, for it sounded very much like "not fit to polish her shoes.
And then commenced a train of thought quite new to me.
I began to wonder what my people at home were doing.
I had not seen them for years.
There was a family of Carters in Virginia who claimed close relationship with me; I was supposed to be a great uncle, or something of the kind equally foolish.
I could pass anywhere for twenty-five to thirty years of age, and to be a great uncle always seemed the height of incongruity, for my thoughts and feelings were those of a boy.
For did not even Dejah Thoris despise me!
Two incidents broke the tediousness of the march.
About noon we espied far to our right what was evidently an incubator, and Lorquas Ptomel directed Tars Tarkas to investigate it.
The warriors tore open the entrance and a couple of them, crawling in, soon demolished all the eggs with their short-swords.
Then remounting we dashed back to join the cavalcade.
This was indeed an interesting piece of information, for it had always seemed remarkable to me that the green Martian women, large as they were, could bring forth such enormous eggs as I had seen the four-foot infants emerging from.
The fight that followed was a long one and delayed the resumption of the march for an hour.
He was soon streaming blood from a half dozen minor wounds, but I could not obtain an opening to deliver an effective thrust.
Then he changed his tactics, and fighting warily and with extreme dexterity, he tried to do by science what he was unable to do by brute strength.
There, upon Dejah Thoris' chariot stood three figures, for the purpose evidently of witnessing the encounter above the heads of the intervening Tharks.
As I regained my full senses I found his weapon piercing my left breast, but only through the flesh and muscles which cover my ribs, entering near the center of my chest and coming out below the shoulder.
She did not notice my presence, nor did she hear me speaking with Sola, who was standing a short distance from the vehicle. "Is she injured?
I asked of Sola, indicating Dejah Thoris by an inclination of my head. "No," she answered, "she thinks that you are dead." "And that her grandmother's cat may now have no one to polish its teeth?
I queried, smiling. "I think you wrong her, John Carter," said Sola.
I do not understand either her ways or yours, but I am sure the granddaughter of ten thousand jeddaks would never grieve like this over any who held but the highest claim upon her affections.
I have seen but two people weep in all my life, other than Dejah Thoris; one wept from sorrow, the other from baffled rage.
The first was my mother, years ago before they killed her; the other was Sarkoja, when they dragged her from me today." "Your mother!
I exclaimed, "but, Sola, you could not have known your mother, child." "But I did.
And my father also," she added.
If you would like to hear the strange and un-Barsoomian story come to the chariot tonight, John Carter, and I will tell you that of which I have never spoken in all my life before.
And now the signal has been given to resume the march, you must go." "I will come tonight, Sola," I promised.
Be sure to tell Dejah Thoris I am alive and well.
I shall not force myself upon her, and be sure that you do not let her know I saw her tears.
We might indeed have been the wraiths of the departed dead upon the dead sea of that dying planet for all the sound or sign we made in passing.
She, my mother, was of the retinue of the great Tal Hajus, while her lover was a simple warrior, wearing only his own metal.
Once each year my mother visited it for the five long years it lay there in the process of incubation.
She dared not come oftener, for in the mighty guilt of her conscience she feared that her every move was watched.
During this period my father gained great distinction as a warrior and had taken the metal from several chieftains.
Thereafter my mother continued to keep me in the old tower, visiting me nightly and lavishing upon me the love the community life would have robbed us both of.
The sounds we heard were the squealing of thoats and the grumbling of zitidars, with the occasional clank of arms which announced the approach of a body of warriors.
As the head of the procession passed us the lesser moon swung clear of the overhanging roofs and lit up the scene with all the brilliancy of her wondrous light.
My mother shrank further back into the friendly shadows, and from her hiding place saw that the expedition was not that of my father, but the returning caravan bearing the young Tharks.
In the confusion of the plaza she mixed me with the other children, whose guardians during the journey were now free to relinquish their responsibility.
We were herded together into a great room, fed by women who had not accompanied the expedition, and the next day we were parceled out among the retinues of the chieftains. "I never saw my mother after that night.
I asked. "Yes," she replied, "but he does not know me for what I am, nor does he know who betrayed my mother to Tal Hajus.
Presently she spoke. "John Carter, if ever a real man walked the cold, dead bosom of Barsoom you are one.
When the time comes, speak the truth if it seems best to you.
My father's name is Tars Tarkas." CHAPTER XVI WE PLAN ESCAPE The remainder of our journey to Thark was uneventful.
We were twenty days upon the road, crossing two sea bottoms and passing through or around a number of ruined cities, mostly smaller than Korad.
Twice we crossed the famous Martian waterways, or canals, so-called by our earthly astronomers.
I verily believe that a man's way with women is in inverse ratio to his prowess among men.
The hordes of Thark number some thirty thousand souls, and are divided into twenty-five communities.
Each community has its own jed and lesser chieftains, but all are under the rule of Tal Hajus, Jeddak of Thark.
My home now was upon an avenue leading into the plaza from the south, the main artery down which we had marched from the gates of the city.
I was at the far end of the square and had an entire building to myself.
The same grandeur of architecture which was so noticeable a characteristic of Korad was in evidence here, only, if that were possible, on a larger and richer scale.
There was an answering murmur from the far corner of the apartment, and with a couple of quick strides I was standing beside her where she crouched among the furs and silks upon an ancient carved wooden seat.
As I waited she rose to her full height and looking me straight in the eye said: "What would Dotar Sojat, Thark, of Dejah Thoris his captive?" "Dejah Thoris, I do not know how I have angered you.
It was furtherest from my desire to hurt or offend you, whom I had hoped to protect and comfort.
Have none of me if it is your will, but that you must aid me in effecting your escape, if such a thing be possible, is not my request, but my command.
You are a queer mixture of child and man, of brute and noble.
Will you not accompany us in one supreme effort to escape?
They would know and they would follow us.
We might hide among the great trees for a time, but the chances are small indeed for escape.
They would follow us to the very gates of Helium, and they would take toll of life at every step; you do not know them." "Is there no other way we might reach Helium?
It was crisscrossed in every direction with long straight lines, sometimes running parallel and sometimes converging toward some great circle.
The lines, she said, were waterways; the circles, cities; and one far to the northwest of us she pointed out as Helium.
They were quieter now, owing to the absence of man, but as they scented me they became more restless and their hideous noise increased.
Thus I moved silently to the great gates which opened upon the street at the back of the court, and as I neared the exit I called softly to my two animals.
With the noiselessness of disembodied spirits we moved stealthily along the deserted streets, but not until we were within sight of the plain beyond the city did I commence to breathe freely.
Then there broke upon the stillness of the night the sound of an approaching party, which, from the noise, I knew could be no fugitives creeping stealthily toward liberty.
Our plan had been discovered, and the chances for escape from now on to the fearful end would be small indeed.
It was well indeed that I took this precaution, for the conversation I heard was in the low gutturals of men, and the words which finally came to me proved a most timely warning.
It will require the combined strength of all of you to do it if the reports they bring back from Korad are correct.
When you have him fast bound bear him to the vaults beneath the jeddak's quarters and chain him securely where he may be found when Tal Hajus wishes him.
Allow him to speak with none, nor permit any other to enter this apartment before he comes.
I soon discovered that my approach was not to be the easy thing I had hoped, for the rear rooms bordering the court were filled with warriors and women.
I then glanced up at the stories above, discovering that the third was apparently unlighted, and so decided to make my entrance to the building from that point.
The floor of this great circular hall was thronged with chieftains, warriors and women, and at one end was a great raised platform upon which squatted the most hideous beast I had ever put my eyes upon.
He had all the cold, hard, cruel, terrible features of the green warriors, but accentuated and debased by the animal passions to which he had given himself over for many years.
She was speaking, but I could not hear what she said, nor could I make out the low grumbling of his reply.
It was Tars Tarkas, and I could read his thoughts as they were an open book for the undisguised loathing upon his face.
No one was near to intercept me, and I reached the main floor of the chamber unobserved, taking my station in the shadow of the same column that Tars Tarkas had but just deserted.
Tomorrow the torture will commence; tonight thou art Tal Hajus'; come!" He sprang down from the platform and grasped her roughly by the arm, but scarcely had he touched her than I leaped between them.
Without a sound he slipped to the floor as one dead. In the same deathly silence I grasped Dejah Thoris by the hand, and motioning Sola to follow we sped noiselessly from the chamber and to the floor above.
Unseen we reached a rear window and with the straps and leather of my trappings I lowered, first Sola and then Dejah Thoris to the ground below.
On the second night both we and our animals were completely fagged, and so we lay down upon the moss and slept for some five or six hours, taking up the journey once more before daylight.
At any rate no waterway was in sight, and the entire party was almost ready to drop from hunger, thirst and fatigue.
Far ahead of us and a trifle to the right we could distinguish the outlines of low mountains.
These we decided to attempt to reach in the hope that from some ridge we might discern the missing waterway.
Putting my arms about his neck I pressed my cheek close to his, nor am I ashamed that I did it, nor of the tears that came to my eyes as I thought of his love for me.
Suddenly he lurched wildly to one side and pitched violently to the ground.
Dejah Thoris and I were thrown clear of him and fell upon the soft moss with scarcely a jar; but the poor beast was in a pitiable condition, not even being able to rise, although relieved of our weight.
Relieving him of his trappings, which I flung down beside him, we left the poor fellow to his fate, and pushed on with the one thoat as best we could.
Sola and I walked, making Dejah Thoris ride, much against her will.
Sola and I both looked in the direction she indicated, and there, plainly discernible, were several hundred mounted warriors.
As what proved to be the last warrior came into view from the pass, he halted and, to our consternation, threw his small but powerful fieldglass to his eye and scanned the sea bottom in all directions.
Evidently he was a chieftain, for in certain marching formations among the green men a chieftain brings up the extreme rear of the column.
As his glass swung toward us our hearts stopped in our breasts, and I could feel the cold sweat start from every pore in my body. Presently it swung full upon us and-stopped.
He did not wait for them to join him, however, instead he wheeled his thoat and came tearing madly in our direction. There was but one slight chance and that we must take quickly.
I knew that in the ravines and gullies they might find a temporary hiding place, and even though they died there of hunger and thirst it would be better so than that they fell into the hands of the Tharks.
I have escaped from worse plights than this," and I tried to smile as I lied. "What," she cried, "are you not coming with us?" "How may I, Dejah Thoris?
Dejah Thoris remains to die with the man she loves." Those words are engraved upon my heart.
In a moment they saw him, and then me; but scarcely had they discovered me than I commenced firing, lying flat upon my belly in the moss.
As I looked up they were upon me, and although I drew my long-sword in an attempt to sell my life as dearly as possible, it was soon over.
He was a huge fellow, terribly scarred about the face and chest, and with one broken tusk and a missing ear.
By the dead hands at my throat but he shall die, Bar Comas.
It soon seemed that the encounter was done saving only the final death thrust when Bar Comas slipped in breaking away from a clinch.
They are a smaller horde than the Tharks but much more ferocious.
Not a day passed but that some members of the various Warhoon communities met in deadly combat.
I have seen as high as eight mortal duels within a single day. We reached the city of Warhoon after some three days march and I was immediately cast into a dungeon and heavily chained to the floor and walls.
Food was brought me at intervals but owing to the utter darkness of the place I do not know whether I lay there days, or weeks, or months.
It was the most horrible experience of all my life and that my mind did not give way to the terrors of that inky blackness has been a wonder to me ever since.
The place was filled with creeping, crawling things; cold, sinuous bodies passed over me when I lay down, and in the darkness I occasionally caught glimpses of gleaming, fiery eyes, fixed in horrible intentness upon me.
As he stooped to place my food upon the ground I swung the chain above my head and crashed the links with all my strength upon his skull.
Without a sound he slipped to the floor, stone dead. Laughing and chattering like the idiot I was fast becoming I fell upon his prostrate form my fingers feeling for his dead throat.
Presently they came in contact with a small chain at the end of which dangled a number of keys.
The touch of my fingers on these keys brought back my reason with the suddenness of thought.
Slowly they approached and slowly I shrank back from the awful horror of them.
Back into my corner I crouched holding my hands palms out, before me, and stealthily on came the awful eyes until they reached the dead body at my feet.
But as I reached out into the darkness to locate it I found to my horror that it was gone.
By the dim torch light I saw that he was a red Martian and I could scarcely await the departure of his guards to address him.
He was much excited by the news of Helium's princess and seemed quite positive that she and Sola could easily have reached a point of safety from where they left me.
The bravery and daring of the man won my greatest respect and admiration.
Alone he had landed at the city's boundary and on foot had penetrated to the buildings surrounding the plaza.
A few days only elapsed, however, before we were dragged forth from our dungeon for the great games.
We were conducted early one morning to an enormous amphitheater, which instead of having been built upon the surface of the ground was excavated below the surface.
It had partially filled with debris so that how large it had originally been was difficult to say.
In its present condition it held the entire twenty thousand Warhoons of the assembled hordes. The arena was immense but extremely uneven and unkempt.
In the others were wild calots, thoats, mad zitidars, green warriors, and women of other hordes, and many strange and ferocious wild beasts of Barsoom which I had never before seen.
The winners in the various contests of the day would be pitted against each other until only two remained alive; the victor in the last encounter being set free, whether animal or man.
I had little hope that he could best his giant adversary who had mowed down all before him during the day.
The fellow towered nearly sixteen feet in height, while Kantos Kan was some inches under six feet.
Just as I saw the sudden coming of dark I whispered to Kantos Kan to thrust his sword between my left arm and my body.
As he did so I staggered back clasping the sword tightly with my arm and thus fell to the ground with his weapon apparently protruding from my chest.
In the darkness which had now fallen none could tell but that he had really finished me.
Several times I was attacked by wild beasts; strange, uncouth monstrosities that leaped upon me in the dark, so that I had ever to grasp my long-sword in my hand that I might be ready for them.
Slowly my arms gave to the unequal struggle, and inch by inch the burning eyes and gleaming tusks of my antagonist crept toward me, until, as the hairy face touched mine again, I realized that all was over.
And then a living mass of destruction sprang from the surrounding darkness full upon the creature that held me pinioned to the ground.
That I was glad of his companionship it is needless to say, but my pleasure at seeing him was tempered by anxiety as to the reason of his leaving Dejah Thoris.
I, myself, was in but little better plight but I could not bring myself to eat the uncooked flesh and I had no means of making a fire.
About noon I dragged myself wearily to the portals of a huge building which covered perhaps four square miles and towered two hundred feet in the air.
In color you are neither green nor red.
In the name of the ninth ray, what manner of creature are you?" "I am a friend of the red men of Barsoom and I am starving.
No one was in sight, yet immediately we passed the first door it slid gently into place behind us and receded rapidly to its original position in the front wall of the building.
I can tell that by the conformation of your brain and the strange location of your internal organs and the shape and size of your heart." "Can you see through me?
I cannot describe them any more than you could describe red to a blind man.
For eight hundred years, he told me, he had watched these pumps which are used alternately a day each at a stretch, or a little over twenty-four and one-half Earth hours.
He has one assistant who divides the watch with him.
The locks are so finely adjusted that the doors are released by the action of a certain combination of thought waves.
How could I escape through these mighty walls?
In breathless expectancy I waited, when finally the great door moved softly toward me and slid quietly to one side.
I have been a prisoner among the green men and am on my way to Zodanga.
Instead of bothering with bolts and bars for their dwellings, the red Martians simply run them up out of harm's way during the night.
They also have private means for lowering or raising them from the ground without if they wish to go away and leave them. These brothers, with their wives and children, occupied three similar houses on this farm.
They did no work themselves, being government officers in charge.
My metal and ornaments were also renewed in the style of a Zodangan gentleman, attached to the house of Ptor, which was the family name of my benefactors. They filled a little sack at my side with Zodangan money.
The medium of exchange upon Mars is not dissimilar from our own except that the coins are oval.
Paper money is issued by individuals as they require it and redeemed twice yearly.
If a man issues more than he can redeem, the government pays his creditors in full and the debtor works out the amount upon the farms or in mines, which are all owned by the government.
Along either side of these conduits, and extending their entire length, lie the cultivated districts.
Our forces took advantage of the absence of the principal fleet of Helium on their search for the princess, and so we have been able easily to reduce the city to a sorry plight.
It is said she will fall within the next few passages of the further moon." "And what, think you, may have been the fate of the princess, Dejah Thoris?
I asked as casually as possible. "She is dead," he answered.
This much was learned from a green warrior recently captured by our forces in the south.
She escaped from the hordes of Thark with a strange creature of another world, only to fall into the hands of the Warhoons.
It was still very early in the morning and the streets were practically deserted.
The residences, raised high upon their metal columns, resembled huge rookeries, while the uprights themselves presented the appearance of steel tree trunks.
The shops as a rule were not raised from the ground nor were their doors bolted or barred, since thievery is practically unknown upon Barsoom.
Were my name and city known to the Zodangans I would shortly be sitting on the banks of the lost sea of Korus with my revered and departed ancestors.
I am here in the interest of Tardos Mors, Jeddak of Helium, to discover the whereabouts of Dejah Thoris, our princess.
Sab Than, prince of Zodanga, has her hidden in the city and has fallen madly in love with her.
The shops were opening and the cafes filling with early morning patrons.
Kantos Kan led me to one of these gorgeous eating places where we were served entirely by mechanical apparatus.
In accordance with custom an examination was necessary, but Kantos Kan had told me to have no fear on this score as he would attend to that part of the matter.
The body of the one-man air craft is about sixteen feet long, two feet wide and three inches thick, tapering to a point at each end.
The driver sits on top of this plane upon a seat constructed over the small, noiseless radium engine which propels it.
The impact sufficient to have torn through inches of solid steel, hurled the fellow's headless body into the air over the head of his thoat, where it fell sprawling upon the moss.
The mounts of the other two warriors turned squealing in terror, and bolted in opposite directions. Reducing my speed I circled and came to the ground at the feet of the astonished Zodangan.
Hastening to his damaged machine we were bending every effort to finish the needed repairs and had almost completed them when we saw the two green monsters returning at top speed from opposite sides of us.
With a bound I cleared the fifty feet intervening between us, and with outstretched point drove my sword completely through the body of the green warrior.
As they waited for the troops to move into position facing the jeddak the two talked earnestly together, the jeddak and his staff occasionally glancing up at me.
I could not hear their conversation and presently it ceased and all dismounted, as the last body of troops had wheeled into position before their emperor.
When he left I was to follow.
My only duty was to guard the ruler and keep out of sight as much as possible.
I would be relieved after a period of four hours.
That you will forgive, Than Kosis, as has your son.
It would look strange indeed to my people and to yours were the Princess of Helium to give herself to her country's enemy in the midst of hostilities." "Cannot the war be ended at once?" spoke Sab Than.
It requires but the word of Than Kosis to bring peace.
Say it, my father, say the word that will hasten my happiness, and end this unpopular strife." "We shall see," replied Than Kosis, "how the people of Helium take to peace.
Apparently they were coming from the opposite side of the partition against which I leaned and presently I made out the tones of Dejah Thoris.
I could not hear the words but I knew that I could not possibly be mistaken in the voice. Moving on a few steps I discovered another passageway at the end of which lay a door.
Walking boldly forward I pushed into the room only to find myself in a small antechamber in which were the four guards who had accompanied her.
The guardsman stepped before me, saying, "No one comes from Than Kosis without carrying an order or the password.
They had me backed against the wall in no time, fighting for my life.
The third fell within ten seconds after the second, and the last lay dead upon the bloody floor a few moments later.
Another enemy to harass me in my misery?" "I am a friend," I answered, "a once cherished friend." "No friend of Helium's princess wears that metal," she replied, "and yet the voice!
I have heard it before; it is not-it cannot be-no, for he is dead." "It is, though, my Princess, none other than John Carter," I said.
O my chieftain that was, and whom I thought dead, had you but returned one little hour before-but now it is too late, too late." "What do you mean, Dejah Thoris?
That you would not have promised yourself to the Zodangan prince had you known that I lived?" "Think you, John Carter, that I would give my heart to you yesterday and today to another?
I have come to claim you, and all Zodanga cannot prevent it." "It is too late, John Carter, my promise is given, and on Barsoom that is final.
The ceremonies which follow later are but meaningless formalities.
They make the fact of marriage no more certain than does the funeral cortege of a jeddak again place the seal of death upon him. I am as good as married, John Carter.
No longer may you call me your princess.
You meant them then, my princess, and you mean them still!
Say that it is true." "I meant them, John Carter," she whispered.
I cannot repeat them now for I have given myself to another.
Ah, if you had only known our ways, my friend," she continued, half to herself, "the promise would have been yours long months ago, and you could have claimed me before all others.
You did not know, and I should not have been offended; I see that now.
But there was no one to tell you what I could not, that upon Barsoom there are two kinds of women in the cities of the red men.
The one they fight for that they may ask them in marriage; the other kind they fight for also, but never ask their hands.
When a man has won a woman he may address her as his princess, or in any of the several terms which signify possession.
I may not wed the man who slays my husband, even in self-defense.
We are ruled by custom upon Barsoom.
It is useless, my friend.
You must bear the sorrow with me.
That at least we may share in common.
That, and the memory of the brief days among the Tharks.
You must go now, nor ever see me again.
The windows opened upon a great balcony which overlooked one of the broad avenues of Zodanga.
The ground was about thirty feet below, and at a like distance from the building was a wall fully twenty feet high, constructed of polished glass about a foot in thickness.
To a red Martian escape by this path would have appeared impossible, but to me, with my earthly strength and agility, it seemed already accomplished.
Into the capacious bowl-like vase I sprang with ease, and scarcely had I settled down within it than I heard a number of people enter the apartment.
The group stopped beneath my hiding place and I could plainly overhear their every word. "It is the work of Heliumites," said one of the men. "Yes, O Jeddak, but how had they access to the palace?
I could believe that even with the diligent care of your guardsmen a single enemy might reach the inner chambers, but how a force of six or eight fighting men could have done so unobserved is beyond me.
In fact the impressions were strongly marked on the brain of each of the four guardsmen.
By the metal of my first ancestor," he went on, "but the description fits him to perfection, especially as to his fighting ability." "Where is this man?" cried Than Kosis.
Have him brought to me at once. What know you of him, cousin?
It seemed strange to me now that I think upon it that there should have been such a fighting man in Zodanga, of whose name, even, we were ignorant before today.
He also is a stranger and likely as not they both hail from Helium, and where one is we shall sooner or later find the other.
She may know more than she cared to divulge to you, Notan.
Come." They left the hall, and, as darkness had fallen without, I slipped lightly from my hiding place and hastened to the balcony.
As I neared the building I became more careful, as I judged, and rightly, that the place would be guarded.
Several men in civilian metal loitered near the front entrance and in the rear were others.
The news that Dejah Thoris had promised her hand to Sab Than filled him with dismay. "It cannot be," he exclaimed.
Why no man in all Helium but would prefer death to the selling of our loved princess to the ruling house of Zodanga.
She must have lost her mind to have assented to such an atrocious bargain.
You, who do not know how we of Helium love the members of our ruling house, cannot appreciate the horror with which I contemplate such an unholy alliance." "What can be done, John Carter?" he continued.
You are a resourceful man.
Here is my hand upon your shoulder, John Carter, and my word that Sab Than shall go out at the point of my sword for the sake of my love for Helium, for Dejah Thoris, and for you.
This very night I shall try to reach his quarters in the palace." "How?
I know a secret entrance to the palace through the pinnacle of the highest tower.
I fell upon it by chance one day as I was passing above the palace on patrol duty.
In this work it is required that we investigate any unusual occurrence we may witness, and a face peering from the pinnacle of the high tower of the palace was, to me, most unusual.
I therefore drew near and discovered that the possessor of the peering face was none other than Sab Than.
He was slightly put out at being detected and commanded me to keep the matter to myself, explaining that the passage from the tower led directly to his apartments, and was known only to him.
Here I met my first real obstacle.
No one has landed or come up from the building for the past hour.
The weapon dropped from his grasp, and my fingers choked off his attempted cry for assistance.
I gagged and bound him and then hung him over the edge of the roof as I myself had hung a few moments before.
Making his fast behind mine I started my engine, and skimming over the edge of the roof I dove down into the streets of the city far below the plane usually occupied by the air patrol.
In less than a minute I was settling safely upon the roof of our apartment beside the astonished Kantos Kan. I lost no time in explanation, but plunged immediately into a discussion of our plans for the immediate future.
It was decided that I was to try to make Helium while Kantos Kan was to enter the palace and dispatch Sab Than.
If successful he was then to follow me.
Gradually I left my pursuers further and further behind, and I was just congratulating myself on my lucky escape, when a well-directed shot from the cruiser exploded at the prow of my little craft.
As it turned out, however, morning found me speeding over a vast expanse of dead sea bottom after nearly six hours of continuous flight at high speed.
He did not see me, as I was a trifle behind him, and just then the three warriors opposing him, and whom I recognized as Warhoons, charged simultaneously.
The mighty fellow made quick work of one of them, but in stepping back for another thrust he fell over a dead body behind him and was down and at the mercy of his foes in an instant.
Quick as lightning they were upon him, and Tars Tarkas would have been gathered to his fathers in short order had I not sprung before his prostrate form and engaged his adversaries.
It was Woola-faithful, loving Woola.
Tal Hajus has ordered me to bring you before him tonight.
I have ten thoats, John Carter; you may take your choice from among them, and I will accompany you to the nearest waterway that leads to Helium.
Tars Tarkas may be a cruel green warrior, but he can be a friend as well.
Come, we must start." "And when you return, Tars Tarkas?
I asked. "The wild calots, possibly, or worse," he replied.
Unless I should chance to have the opportunity I have so long waited of battling with Tal Hajus." "We will stay, Tars Tarkas, and see Tal Hajus tonight.
I have just discovered that the warrior who loved that woman has learned of your part in the transaction.
Having heard that he would do this on the morrow, I thought it only right to warn you, for I am a just man.
We shall see who it is dares strike the mighty Tal Hajus.
You owe me, at least, a hearing.
I have won that much today.
You claim to be a just people-" "Silence," roared Tal Hajus.
Gag the creature and bind him as I command." "Justice, Tal Hajus," exclaimed Lorquas Ptomel.
I did not see him in the thick of battle; he was not there.
He rends defenseless women and little children in his lair, but how recently has one of you seen him fight with men?
Why, even I, a midget beside him, felled him with a single blow of my fist.
Is it of such that the Tharks fashion their jeddaks? There stands beside me now a great Thark, a mighty warrior and a noble man.
Chieftains, how sounds, Tars Tarkas, Jeddak of Thark?" A roar of deep-toned applause greeted this suggestion. "It but remains for this council to command, and Tal Hajus must prove his fitness to rule.
Were he a brave man he would invite Tars Tarkas to combat, for he does not love him, but Tal Hajus is afraid; Tal Hajus, your jeddak, is a coward.
With my bare hands I could kill him, and he knows it." After I ceased there was tense silence, as all eyes were riveted upon Tal Hajus.
There could be but one answer to this arraignment.
I told Tars Tarkas the story of my adventures, and in a few words had explained to him the thought I had in mind. "John Carter has made a proposal," he said, addressing the council, "which meets with my sanction.
I shall put it to you briefly.
Never in the history of Barsoom, Tars Tarkas told me, had such a force of green warriors marched to battle together.
They are built of enormous blocks of carborundum, and the task of entering the city seemed, to my escort of green warriors, an impossibility.
The head of the topmost warrior towered over forty feet from the ground. In this way, with ten warriors, I built a series of three steps from the ground to the shoulders of the topmost man.
After me I dragged six lengths of leather from an equal number of my warriors.
Our plans worked to perfection.
I led them to the palace walls, which I negotiated easily without assistance.
The immense hall was crowded with nobles and their women, as though some important function was in progress.
Then came more dignitaries, and the officers of the palace and of the army, and finally two figures entirely muffled in scarlet silk, so that not a feature of either was discernible.
These two stopped at the foot of the throne, facing Than Kosis.
When the balance of the procession had entered and assumed their stations Than Kosis addressed the couple standing before him.
Behind the throne was a narrow doorway and in this Than Kosis now stood facing me, with drawn long-sword.
As his father rolled dead upon the floor the new jeddak tore himself free from Dejah Thoris' grasp, and again we faced each other.
He was soon joined by a quartet of officers, and, with my back against a golden throne, I fought once again for Dejah Thoris.
I was hard pressed to defend myself and yet not strike down Sab Than and, with him, my last chance to win the woman I loved.
My blade was swinging with the rapidity of lightning as I sought to parry the thrusts and cuts of my opponents.
Strike her down; it is her plot.
Guided by the sound, we soon found him helpless in a dark recess. He was overjoyed at seeing me, and to know the meaning of the fight, faint echoes of which had reached his prison cell.
I know that Barsoom has never before seen your like.
They were looting, murdering, and fighting amongst themselves.
With wild, ferocious cries and amidst the nasty squealing of battle-enraged thoats we bore down upon the Zodangans. We did not catch them napping, but found a well-entrenched battle line confronting us.
At the same moment the battle line of Helium surged over the opposite breastworks of the Zodangans and in another moment they were being crushed as between two millstones.
We were greeted with an endless round of applause and showered with ornaments of gold, platinum, silver, and precious jewels.
The city had gone mad with joy. My fierce Tharks caused the wildest excitement and enthusiasm.
The avenues and plazas of Helium were filled with people.
For the most part the people looked bravely into the face of their unalterable doom.
The days of the greatness of Barsoom are over.
Tomorrow's sun will look down upon a dead world which through all eternity must go swinging through the heavens peopled not even by memories.
It is the end." He stooped and kissed the women of his family, and laid his strong hand upon the shoulders of the men. As I turned sadly from him my eyes fell upon Dejah Thoris.
Her head was drooping upon her breast, to all appearances she was lifeless.
With a cry I sprang to her and raised her in my arms. Her eyes opened and looked into mine. "Kiss me, John Carter," she murmured.
It is cruel that we must be torn apart who were just starting upon a life of love and happiness." As I pressed her dear lips to mine the old feeling of unconquerable power and authority rose in me.
The fighting blood of Virginia sprang to life in my veins. "It shall not be, my princess," I cried.
Order your swiftest flier to the palace top.
The face of Dejah Thoris hung always before me.
As I turned for a last look as I left the palace garden I had seen her stagger and sink upon the ground beside the little incubator.
There were a few men still conscious, and to one of these I spoke. "If I can open these doors is there a man who can start the engines?
I asked. "I can," he replied, "if you open quickly.
I can last but a few moments more.
But it is useless, they are both dead and no one else upon Barsoom knew the secret of these awful locks.
The Martian had crawled to my side and with staring eyes fixed on the single panel before us we waited in the silence of death. Slowly the mighty door receded before us.
I attempted to rise and follow it but I was too weak. "After it," I cried to my companion, "and if you reach the pump room turn loose all the pumps.
One of these matches I struck, and its dim flame lighted up what appeared to be a huge cave, toward the back of which I discovered a strange, still figure huddled over a tiny bench.
The silvered mountains in the distance, the almost stationary moon hanging in the sky, the cacti-studded valley below me were not of Mars.
Did the vitalizing air reach the people of that distant planet in time to save them?
The Number "e" Below is the value of 'e' to about 100,000 places, computed on the NCSA Cray Y-MP using the Brent multiple precision routines (published as Algorithm 524 in the March 1978 issue of Transactions on Mathematical Software).
The method used was to compute first the alternating series for 1/e, then to invert this result.
The time to compute 1/e was about 594 seconds, and the time to invert was about 97 seconds.
*** x-header *** [Illustration] The Gods of Mars by Edgar Rice Burroughs Contents CHAPTER I.
The Plant Men CHAPTER II.
A Forest Battle CHAPTER III.
The Chamber of Mystery CHAPTER IV.
Corridors of Peril CHAPTER VI.
The Black Pirates of Barsoom CHAPTER VII.
A Fair Goddess CHAPTER VIII.
The Depths of Omean CHAPTER IX.
Issus, Goddess of Life Eternal CHAPTER X.
The Prison Isle of Shador CHAPTER XI.
When Hell Broke Loose CHAPTER XII.
Doomed to Die CHAPTER XIII.
A Break for Liberty CHAPTER XIV.
The Eyes in the Dark CHAPTER XV.
Flight and Pursuit CHAPTER XVI.
The Death Sentence CHAPTER XVIII.
The Air Battle CHAPTER XXI.
Through Flood and Flame CHAPTER XXII.
Or was he really dead after all, never to return either to his mother Earth or his beloved Mars? Thus was I lost in useless speculation one sultry August evening when old Ben, my body servant, handed me a telegram.
Apparently he had not aged a minute, but was still the straight, clean-limbed fighting-man of thirty.
You have been back to Mars?
You found her well and awaiting you?" "Yes, I have been to Barsoom again, and-but it's a long story, too long to tell in the limited time I have before I must return.
At the door of his vault he turned and pressed my hand. "Good-bye, nephew," he said.
The great door swung slowly to.
The ponderous bolts grated into place.
What guide had I through the trackless waste of interplanetary space?
There was no accumulation of fallen debris, forming a more or less rough ascent to them, as is the case with nearly all other cliffs I have ever seen.
The sun was not quite upon them and they loomed a dull yellow in their own shade.
That I could scale them I knew full well, but Tars Tarkas, with his mighty bulk and enormous weight, would find it a task possibly quite beyond his prowess or his skill, for Martians are at best but poor climbers.
But that Tars Tarkas was the bravest of the brave he had proven thousands of times; yes, tens of thousands in countless mortal combats with men and beasts.
And so I knew that there was another reason than fear of death behind his flight, as he knew that a greater power than pride or honour spurred me to escape these fierce destroyers.
As I raised my eyes toward its roof to note the height I saw far above me a faint glow of light. There was an opening above.
If we could but reach it we might still hope to make the shelter of the cliff caves.
Its walls rose some twenty feet above the floor, which was about five feet in width.
But no further sound broke the stillness, nor within the range of our vision did aught move. At length Tars Tarkas laughed softly, after the manner of his strange kind when in the presence of the horrible or terrifying.
Where in the deuce are we?" He looked at me in surprise. "Where are we?" he repeated.
And she lives yet?" "She lives, John Carter." "You have not told me where we are," I reminded him. "We are where I expected to find you, John Carter-and another.
Many years ago you heard the story of the woman who taught me the thing that green Martians are reared to hate, the woman who taught me to love.
I asked. "This is the valley of love and peace and rest to which every Barsoomian since time immemorial has longed to pilgrimage at the end of a life of hate and strife and bloodshed," he replied.
This, John Carter, is Heaven." His tone was cold and ironical; its bitterness but reflecting the terrible disappointment he had suffered.
If you have not been here all these years where indeed have you been, and how is it that I find you here to-day?" "I have been back to Earth," I replied.
I have answered you, my friend.
Do you believe?" "I believe," replied Tars Tarkas, "though I cannot understand." As we talked I had been searching the interior of the chamber with my eyes.
Here and there polished surfaces of ruby, emerald, and diamond patched the golden walls and ceiling.
The floor was of another material, very hard, and worn by much use to the smoothness of glass.
Thinkest thou to defeat the eternal laws of life and death?
Wouldst cheat the mysterious Issus, Goddess of Death, of her just dues?
Did not her mighty messenger, the ancient Iss, bear you upon her leaden bosom at your own behest to the Valley Dor? "Thinkest thou, O fools, that Issus wilt give up her own?
In their veins flows lifeblood that may be let as easily as ours, and the fact that they remain invisible to us is the best proof to my mind that they are mortal; nor overly courageous mortals at that.
Scarcely had it started than I gave the signal to Tars Tarkas, simultaneously springing for the receding half of the pivoting door.
That you are no Barsoomian from the outer world is evident from your colour.
And you are not of us." His last statement was almost a question. "What if I were from the Temple of Issus?
Tars Tarkas was nowhere in sight and the secret panel in the wall, through which I had come, was closed. How I wished that he were by my side now!
For a moment I could neither place my surroundings nor locate the sounds which had aroused me.
I asked. "Yes; release me and I will give you entrance to the other horror chamber, if you wish.
The keys to my fetters are upon the first dead of thy foemen.
This time a slender, needle-like affair which she inserted in an almost invisible hole in the wall.
So weak was he from continued exertion and loss of blood that but for the supporting wall I doubt that he even could have stood erect.
Then Tars Tarkas said: "I heard the fighting beyond the partition through which you passed, but I did not fear for you, John Carter, until I heard the report of a revolver shot.
I am not of Barsoom, nor have I taken yet the voluntary pilgrimage upon the River Iss.
I am John Carter, Prince of the House of Tardos Mors, Jeddak of Helium.
Perchance some faint rumour of me may have leaked within the confines of your hellish abode." She smiled. "Yes," she replied, "naught that passes in the world we have left is unknown here.
I have heard of you, many years ago.
I asked. "The Holy Therns eat human flesh," she answered me; "but only that which has died beneath the sucking lips of a plant man-flesh from which the defiling blood of life has been drawn.
And to this cruel end I have been condemned.
It was to be within a few hours, had your advent not caused an interruption of their plans." "Was it then Holy Therns who felt the weight of John Carter's hand?
I asked. "Oh, no; those whom you laid low are lesser therns; but of the same cruel and hateful race.
Our own moral senses will not be offended if we succeed, for we know that the fabled life of love and peace in the blessed Valley of Dor is a rank and wicked deception.
It reaches to every nation of Barsoom.
His secret temples are hidden in the heart of every community.
What means this, Thuvia?" For answer the girl raised her revolver and fired point-blank at him. Without a sound he sank to the earth, dead. "Beast!" she hissed.
The way is still difficult, but through this vile thing upon the floor we may yet win to the outer world.
I asked the girl Thuvia.
A dozen lesser therns confronted us from a large doorway at the opposite end of the storeroom from which we had entered.
I cried in tones of fierce anger.
I cried. "Two from the outer world are at large within the dominions of the therns.
We sought them at the command of the Father of Therns.
It was left for Sator Throg and his poor slaves to accomplish what the lesser therns of the guard were unable to do-we have killed one and captured the other; for this had Sator Throg given us our liberty.
The last fleeting glimpse that I obtained of his profile as he passed from my sight without the chamber revealed a cunning smile of triumph upon his lips. Only Tars Tarkas, Thuvia, and I were left.
For even though this fellow dared not chance accusing you in error, there be those above with power sufficient to demand a closer scrutiny, and that, Prince, would indeed prove fatal." I shrugged my shoulders.
It seemed that in any event the outcome of our plight must end in death.
I was refreshed from my sleep, but still weak from loss of blood.
No medicinal aid seemed possible.
How I longed for the almost miraculous healing power of the strange salves and lotions of the green Martian women.
In an hour they would have had me as new. I was discouraged.
Never had a feeling of such utter hopelessness come over me in the face of danger.
Then the long flowing, yellow locks of the Holy Thern, caught by some vagrant draught, blew about my face. Might they not still open the way of freedom?
If we acted in time, might we not even yet escape before the general alarm was sounded?
We could at least try. "What will the fellow do first, Thuvia?
How long will it be before they may return for us?" "He will go directly to the Father of Therns, old Matai Shang.
What is the best way, Thuvia, the shortest way out of this celestial Hades?" "Straight to the top of the cliffs, Prince," she replied, "and then through the gardens to the inner courts.
From there our way will lie within the temples of the therns and across them to the outer court. Then the ramparts-O Prince, it is hopeless.
Ten thousand warriors could not hew a way to liberty from out this awful place. "Since the beginning of time, little by little, stone by stone, have the therns been ever adding to the defences of their stronghold.
A continuous line of impregnable fortifications circles the outer slopes of the Mountains of Otz. "Within the temples that lie behind the ramparts a million fighting-men are ever ready.
The courts and gardens are filled with slaves, with women and with children. "None could go a stone's throw without detection." "If there is no other way, Thuvia, why dwell upon the difficulties of this.
There are fewer abroad in the courts and gardens, though," said Thuvia. "What is the hour?
I asked. "It was midnight when you released me from my chains," said Thuvia. "Two hours later we reached the storeroom.
There you slept for fourteen hours.
It must now be nearly sundown again.
A little below us stood the Holy Thern on watch upon his balcony.
His scarlet robe of office was pulled tightly about him in anticipation of the cold that comes so suddenly with darkness as the sun sets.
So rare is the atmosphere of Mars that it absorbs very little heat from the sun. During the daylight hours it is always extremely hot; at night it is intensely cold.
Nor does the thin atmosphere refract the sun's rays or diffuse its light as upon Earth.
There is no twilight on Mars.
When the great orb of day disappears beneath the horizon the effect is precisely as that of the extinguishing of a single lamp within a chamber.
From brilliant light you are plunged without warning into utter darkness.
Then the moons come; the mysterious, magic moons of Mars, hurtling like monster meteors low across the face of the planet. The declining sun lighted brilliantly the eastern banks of Korus, the crimson sward, the gorgeous forest.
Beneath the trees we saw feeding many herds of plant men.
Presently there emerged from the mountain a canoe laden with lost souls from the outer world.
There were a dozen of them.
All were of the highly civilized and cultured race of red men who are dominant on Mars. The eyes of the herald upon the balcony beneath us fell upon the doomed party as soon as did ours.
There was a brief and futile effort of defence.
Then silence as the huge, repulsive shapes covered the bodies of their victims and scores of sucking mouths fastened themselves to the flesh of their prey. I turned away in disgust. "Their part is soon over," said Thuvia.
The great white apes get the flesh when the plant men have drained the arteries.
Look, they are coming now." As I turned my eyes in the direction the girl indicated, I saw a dozen of the great white monsters running across the valley toward the river bank.
How do you do it?" She laughed, and then shuddered. "I do not quite know," she said.
When first I came here I angered Sator Throg, because I repulsed him.
He ordered me to be thrown into one of the great pits in the inner gardens.
It was filled with banths. In my own country I had been accustomed to command.
Something in my voice, I do not know what, cowed the beasts as they sprang to attack me. "Instead of tearing me to pieces, as Sator Throg had desired, they fawned at my feet.
So greatly were Sator Throg and his friends amused by the sight that they kept me to train and handle the terrible creatures.
I know them all by name.
There are many of them wandering through these lower regions.
Many prisoners die here in their chains.
The banths solve the problem of sanitation, at least in this respect. "In the gardens and temples above they are kept in pits.
I asked. Thuvia laughed. "It would distract attention from us, I am sure," she said. She commenced calling in a low singsong voice that was half purr.
Two walked close on either side of Thuvia, as guards might walk.
The sleek sides of others now and then touched my own naked limbs.
Quietly she stole toward the entrance and glanced within.
They more resemble corpses than living beings.
In others were chained prisoners and beasts. "Why is it that we see no therns?
I asked of Thuvia. "They seldom traverse the underworld at night, for then it is that the great banths prowl the dim corridors seeking their prey.
The therns fear the awful denizens of this cruel and hopeless world that they have fostered and allowed to grow beneath their feet.
The prisoners even sometimes turn upon them and rend them.
The thern can never tell from what dark shadow an assassin may spring upon his back. "By day it is different.
Then the corridors and chambers are filled with guards passing to and fro; slaves from the temples above come by hundreds to the granaries and storerooms.
You did not see it because I led you not in the beaten tracks, but through roundabout passages seldom used.
Yet it is possible that we may meet a thern even yet.
They do occasionally find it necessary to come here after the sun has set.
I have brought you thus far.
From here on for four miles to the outer ramparts our way will be beset by countless dangers.
Guards patrol the courts, the temples, the gardens.
The sight of them in the open brought a score of fliers darting toward us from all directions. The therns fired upon them through shields affixed to their rifles, but on, steadily on, came the grim, black craft.
They were small fliers for the most part, built for two to three men.
Never had I witnessed its like before.
The tide of battle had not reached us, but the fighters from time to time swung close enough that we might distinctly note them. The black pirates interested me immensely.
Where they visited they wrought the most horrible atrocities, and when they left carried away with them firearms and ammunition, and young girls as prisoners.
That would soon put a stop to the attacks, or at least the blacks would scarce be so bold.
Why, see how perfectly unguarded they leave their craft, as though they were lying safe in their own hangars at home." "The therns do not dare.
They were near to extermination that once and they will not venture risking it again." As she ceased talking a new element was instilled into the conflict.
It came from a source equally unlooked for by either thern or pirate.
A horrid scream of bestial rage broke from the banth as he felt warm flesh beneath his powerful talons. As though his cry was but a signal to the others, the entire great pack hurled themselves among the fighters.
I turned to search for an opening through the contending hordes.
Why it had not occurred to me before!
I was thoroughly familiar with the mechanism of every known make of flier on Barsoom. For nine years I had sailed and fought with the navy of Helium.
I had raced through space on the tiny one-man air scout and I had commanded the greatest battleship that ever had floated in the thin air of dying Mars. To think, with me, is to act.
Grasping Thuvia by the arm, I whispered to Tars Tarkas to follow me.
Quickly we glided toward a small flier which lay furthest from the battling warriors.
Another instant found us huddled on the tiny deck.
My hand was on the starting lever.
Then a new cry of warning broke upon our ears.
Turning, I saw a dozen black pirates dashing toward us from the melee.
With shrieks of rage the demons sprang for us.
With frenzied insistence I continued to press the little button which should have sent us racing out into space, but still the vessel refused to budge.
Then it came to me-the reason that she would not rise. We had stumbled upon a two-man flier.
Its ray tanks were charged only with sufficient repulsive energy to lift two ordinary men.
The Thark's great weight was anchoring us to our doom. The blacks were nearly upon us.
There was not an instant to be lost in hesitation or doubt. I pressed the button far in and locked it.
I must go down eventually to certain death before them.
I shuddered at the thought of it, dying thus in this terrible place where no word of my end ever could reach my Dejah Thoris.
Dying at the hands of nameless black men in the gardens of the cruel therns. Then my old-time spirit reasserted itself.
The fighting blood of my Virginian sires coursed hot through my veins.
The fierce blood lust and the joy of battle surged over me.
The fighting smile that has brought consternation to a thousand foemen touched my lips.
Instantly the one chance for escape that it offered presented itself to me.
The vessel was slowly rising and now the anchor was beyond the blacks who faced me and several feet above their heads. With a bound that left them gaping in wide-eyed astonishment I sprang completely over them.
I wondered if by chance the vessel might be deserted.
Or possibly it might belong to a friendly people, and have wandered by accident almost within the clutches of the pirates and the therns.
The pirate's hissing, "Die, cursed thern," was half choked in his windpipe by my clutching fingers.
It was evident to him that he soon must die unless he tore loose from the steel fingers that were choking the life from him.
With one mighty downward surge I swept him clear of the deck.
Then I released my hold upon him and in an instant he was swallowed by the black shadows far below. Again I climbed to the ship's rail.
Instead her eyes warned me to beware the sleeping figures that surrounded her. Noiselessly I gained the deck.
I can use that upon those your sword does not silence in time." I did as she bid.
Then I turned toward the distasteful work that lay before me.
This was no time for fine compunctions, nor for a chivalry that these cruel demons would neither appreciate nor reciprocate. Stealthily I approached the nearest sleeper.
When he awoke he was well on his journey to the bosom of Korus.
There were five of them. As they arose the girl's revolver spoke in sharp staccato and one sank back to the deck again to rise no more. The others rushed madly upon me with drawn swords.
The girl evidently dared not fire for fear of wounding me, but I saw her sneak stealthily and cat-like toward the flank of the attackers.
Then they were on me. For a few minutes I experienced some of the hottest fighting I had ever passed through.
The quarters were too small for foot work.
It was stand your ground and give and take.
At first I took considerably more than I gave, but presently I got beneath one fellow's guard and had the satisfaction of seeing him collapse upon the deck. The others redoubled their efforts.
The crashing of their blades upon mine raised a terrific din that might have been heard for miles through the silent night.
At the same instant the girl fired and my sword arm made two moves.
Then I ducked beneath his outstretched arms, at the same time sidestepping to the right.
Never lived there upon all Barsoom before one who could fight as you have fought this night.
Who are you?" "I am John Carter, Prince of the House of Tardos Mors, Jeddak of Helium," I replied.
And whom," I added, "has the honour of serving been accorded me?" She hesitated a moment before speaking.
Then she asked: "You are no thern.
Are you an enemy of the therns?" "I have been in the territory of the therns for a day and a half. During that entire time my life has been in constant danger.
I have been harassed and persecuted.
Armed men and fierce beasts have been set upon me.
I had no quarrel with the therns before, but can you wonder that I feel no great love for them now?
I have spoken." She looked at me intently for several minutes before she replied.
I sprang to his side.
Stripping his harness from him I securely bound his hands behind his back, and after similarly fastening his feet tied him to a heavy gun carriage. "Why not the simpler way?" asked Phaidor. "I do not understand.
I replied. With a slight shrug of her lovely shoulders she made a gesture with her hands personating the casting of something over the craft's side. "I am no murderer," I said.
I kill in self-defence only." She looked at me narrowly.
Then she puckered those divine brows of hers, and shook her head.
She could not comprehend. Well, neither had my own Dejah Thoris been able to understand what to her had seemed a foolish and dangerous policy toward enemies.
Only in a very general way could I guess the location of the Valley Dor.
Beneath my hand the cruiser swung gracefully about.
Then the button which controlled the repulsive rays sent us soaring far out into space.
No sound of conflict reached our ears, for in the rarefied atmosphere of our great altitude no sound wave could penetrate; they were dissipated in thin air far below us. It became intensely cold.
The girl, Phaidor, and the black pirate kept their eyes glued upon me.
At length the girl spoke. "Unconsciousness comes quickly at this altitude," she said quietly. "Unless you are inviting death for us all you had best drop, and that quickly." There was no fear in her voice.
It was as one might say: "You had better carry an umbrella.
It is going to rain." I dropped the vessel quickly to a lower level.
Nor was I a moment too soon.
The girl had swooned. The black, too, was unconscious, while I, myself, retained my senses, I think, only by sheer will.
The one on whom all responsibility rests is apt to endure the most. We were swinging along low above the foothills of the Otz.
And Issus is for the race of therns alone.
Thus am I immortal." I caught a fleeting grin passing across the features of the black as he heard her words.
I did not then understand why he smiled.
Then, turning to me, "What are your intentions concerning me?" "I intend taking you both back to Helium," I said.
No harm will come to you.
But how is it that you wear the golden hair and the jewelled circlet of a Holy Thern?
He emphasized the word holy with a touch of irony. "I had forgotten them," I said.
They are the spoils of conquest," and with a sweep of my hand I removed the disguise from my head. When the black's eyes fell on my close-cropped black hair they opened in astonishment.
Evidently he had looked for the bald pate of a thern. "You are indeed of another world," he said, a touch of awe in his voice.
With the skin of a thern, the black hair of a First Born and the muscles of a dozen Dators it was no disgrace even for Xodar to acknowledge your supremacy.
A thing he could never do were you a Barsoomian," he added. "You are travelling several laps ahead of me, my friend," I interrupted.
Many forms of life came and went upon the Tree of Life, but still all were attached to the parent plant by stems of varying lengths.
They are a lower order still.
There is but one race of true and immortal humans on Barsoom.
Their actions and movements are largely matters of instinct and not guided to any great extent by reason, since the brain of a plant man is but a trifle larger than the end of your smallest finger.
They have no sense of self-preservation and so are entirely without fear in the face of danger.
That is why they are such terrible antagonists in combat." I wondered why the black man took such pains to discourse thus at length to enemies upon the genesis of life Barsoomian.
It seemed a strangely inopportune moment for a proud member of a proud race to unbend in casual conversation with a captor.
Simultaneously I reversed the engines and dropped the little vessel a sheer hundred feet. Above my head I could see the dangling forms of the boarding party as the battleship raced over us.
Then I rose at a sharp angle, throwing my speed lever to its last notch. Like a bolt from a crossbow my splendid craft shot its steel prow straight at the whirring propellers of the giant above us.
Only a second I hung there before tearing away, but that second was amply long to swarm my deck with black devils. There was no fight.
In the first place there was no room to fight.
We were simply submerged by numbers.
Then as swords menaced me a command from Xodar stayed the hands of his fellows. "Secure them," he said, "but do not injure them." Several of the pirates already had released Xodar.
He now personally attended to my disarming and saw that I was properly bound.
At least he thought that the binding was secure.
It would have been had I been a Martian, but I had to smile at the puny strands that confined my wrists.
When the time came I could snap them as they had been cotton string. The girl they bound also, and then they fastened us together.
In the meantime they had brought our craft alongside the disabled battleship, and soon we were transported to the latter's deck. Fully a thousand black men manned the great engine of destruction.
Her decks were crowded with them as they pressed forward as far as discipline would permit to get a glimpse of their captives. The girl's beauty elicited many brutal comments and vulgar jests.
It was evident that these self-thought supermen were far inferior to the red men of Barsoom in refinement and in chivalry. My close-cropped black hair and thern complexion were the subjects of much comment.
The officers were conspicuous through the wondrous magnificence of their resplendent trappings.
The whole scene was enchanting.
Each was occupied with his own thoughts.
It seemed to me that I could not fail to impress upon the intelligent red men of Barsoom the wicked deception that a cruel and senseless superstition had foisted upon them. Tardos Mors would believe me.
Of that I was positive.
And that he would have the courage of his convictions my knowledge of his character assured me.
Dejah Thoris would believe me.
Not a doubt as to that entered my head.
When we had entered the compartment we had seated ourselves upon a low bench beneath the porthole.
The bench was the only furniture of the room.
It was of sorapus wood.
She was regarding me with a strange expression I had not before seen upon her face.
She was very beautiful then. Instantly her white lids veiled her eyes, and I thought I discovered a delicate flush tingeing her cheek.
Evidently she was embarrassed at having been detected in the act of staring at a lesser creature, I thought. "Do you find the study of the lower orders interesting?
I asked, laughing. She looked up again with a nervous but relieved little laugh. "Oh very," she said, "especially when they have such excellent profiles." It was my turn to flush, but I did not.
That they never take a man prisoner lends strength to the belief that the fate of the girls they steal is worse than death." "Is it not a just retribution?
I could not help but ask. "What do you mean?" "Do not the therns themselves do likewise with the poor creatures who take the voluntary pilgrimage down the River of Mystery?
Was not Thuvia for fifteen years a plaything and a slave?
Is it less than just that you should suffer as you have caused others to suffer?" "You do not understand," she replied.
We therns are a holy race.
It is an honour to a lesser creature to be a slave among us.
That is the wickedest of your deeds. Can you tell me why you foster the cruel deception?" "All life on Barsoom," she said, "is created solely for the support of the race of therns.
How else could we live did the outer world not furnish our labour and our food?
Think you that a thern would demean himself by labour?" "It is true then that you eat human flesh?
I asked in horror. She looked at me in pitying commiseration for my ignorance. "Truly we eat the flesh of the lower orders.
Do not you also?" "The flesh of beasts, yes," I replied, "but not the flesh of man." "As man may eat of the flesh of beasts, so may gods eat of the flesh of man.
And-," she hesitated, "perhaps we shall find a way to keep you as-as-one of us." Again her eyes dropped to the floor, and a faint colour suffused her cheek.
Should they ever guess that you entertained such frightful thoughts, should we chance to regain the temples of the therns, they would mete out a frightful death to you. Not even my-my-" Again she flushed, and started over.
Not even I could save you." I said no more.
She was even more steeped in superstition than the Martians of the outer world.
They only worshipped a beautiful hope for a life of love and peace and happiness in the hereafter.
I will cut your bonds and you may come on deck.
You will witness something very interesting, and as you never shall return to the outer world it will do no harm to permit you to see it.
As far as the eye could reach in any direction naught else was visible. There could be but one solution to the mystery.
We were above the south polar ice cap.
Only at the poles of Mars is there ice or snow upon the planet.
No sign of life appeared below us.
Evidently we were too far south even for the great fur-bearing animals which the Martians so delight in hunting. Xodar was at my side as I stood looking out over the ship's rail. "What course?
I asked him. "A little west of south," he replied.
You will see the Otz Valley directly.
We shall skirt it for a few hundred miles." "The Otz Valley!
I exclaimed; "but, man, is not there where lie the domains of the therns from which I but just escaped?" "Yes," answered Xodar.
You crossed this ice field last night in the long chase that you led us.
The Otz Valley lies in a mighty depression at the south pole.
It is sunk thousands of feet below the level of the surrounding country, like a great round bowl.
A hundred miles from its northern boundary rise the Otz Mountains which circle the inner Valley of Dor, in the exact centre of which lies the Lost Sea of Korus.
On the shore of this sea stands the Golden Temple of Issus in the Land of the First Born.
It is there that we are bound." As I looked I commenced to realize why it was that in all the ages only one had escaped from the Valley Dor.
My only wonder was that even the one had been successful.
It was not high and seemed to have a flat top. Xodar had left us to attend to some duty on the vessel, and Phaidor and I stood alone beside the rail.
The girl had not once spoken since we had been brought to the deck. "Is what he has been telling me true?
I asked her. "In part, yes," she answered.
That about the outer valley is true, but what he says of the location of the Temple of Issus in the centre of his country is false.
If it is not false-" she hesitated.
Oh it cannot be true, it cannot be true.
Below us rose and fell the billows of a buried sea.
A phosphorescent radiance illuminated the scene.
Thousands of ships dotted the bosom of the ocean.
Little islands rose here and there to support the strange and colourless vegetation of this strange world. Slowly and with majestic grace the battleship dropped until she rested on the water.
Her great propellers had been drawn and housed during our descent of the shaft and in their place had been run out the smaller but more powerful water propellers.
As these commenced to revolve the ship took up its journey once more, riding the new element as buoyantly and as safely as she had the air. Phaidor and I were dumbfounded.
Neither had either heard or dreamed that such a world existed beneath the surface of Barsoom. Nearly all the vessels we saw were war craft.
It receives the waters of the lesser sea above it.
The few prisoners we take are presented to her.
Occasionally she selects slaves from among them to replenish the ranks of her handmaidens.
In its centre was a long tank of water, set below the level of the floor like the swimming pool of a natatorium.
Near one side of the pool floated an odd-looking black object.
Immediately a hatch cover was raised from the surface of the object, and a black seaman sprang from the bowels of the strange craft. Xodar addressed the seaman. "Transmit to your officer," he said, "the commands of Dator Xodar.
Say to him that Dator Xodar, with officers and men, escorting two prisoners, would be transported to the gardens of Issus beside the Golden Temple." "Blessed be the shell of thy first ancestor, most noble Dator," replied the man.
We were going down swiftly.
Now we could hear the water rushing past the port-holes, and in the dim light that filtered through them to the water beyond the swirling eddies were plainly visible. Phaidor grasped my arm. "Save me!" she whispered.
Save me and your every wish shall be granted.
Anything within the power of the Holy Therns to give will be yours.
Phaidor-" she stumbled a little here, and then in a very low voice, "Phaidor already is yours." I felt very sorry for the poor child, and placed my hand over hers where it rested on my arm.
So I was quite at a loss as to what to do or say.
Very clumsily too, I fear. Gently I unclasped her hands from about my neck, and still holding them in mine I told her the story of my love for Dejah Thoris.
That of all the women of two worlds that I had known and admired during my long life she alone had I loved. The tale did not seem to please her.
Like a tigress she sprang, panting, to her feet.
Her beautiful face was distorted in an expression of horrible malevolence.
Her eyes fairly blazed into mine. "Dog," she hissed.
Think you that Phaidor, daughter of Matai Shang, supplicates?
What to her is your puny outer world passion for the vile creature you chose in your other life? "Phaidor has glorified you with her love, and you have spurned her.
Ten thousand unthinkably atrocious deaths could not atone for the affront that you have put upon me.
The thing that you call Dejah Thoris shall die the most horrible of them all.
You have sealed the warrant for her doom. "And you!
You shall be the meanest slave in the service of the goddess you have attempted to humiliate.
The whole lovely programme from start to finish.
It amazed me to think that one so divinely beautiful could at the same time be so fiendishly vindictive.
Evidently we were very far beneath the surface crust of Mars. Presently our downward motion ceased, and I could hear the propellers swirling through the water at our stern and forcing us ahead at high speed.
We came to a full stop, and then commenced to rise swiftly toward the surface.
They are operated by means of enormous magnets which are suspended at the top of the shaft.
Among them moved red and white females serving their every want.
The places of the outer world and the temples of the therns had been robbed of their princesses and goddesses that the blacks might have their slaves. Through this scene we moved toward the temple.
At the main entrance we were halted by a cordon of armed guards.
Xodar spoke a few words to an officer who came forward to question us.
At length we were halted in a spacious chamber in the centre of the temple.
One of the officers who had accompanied us advanced to a large door in the further end of the chamber.
She shall serve me the allotted time.
The man you may return to the Isle of Shador which lies against the northern shore of the Sea of Omean.
She paled to a ghastly hue.
Slowly, very slowly she turned, as though drawn by some invisible yet irresistible force.
Thus spoke Issus, and the heavy hand of the officer fell upon my shoulder.
In accordance with his instructions I dropped to my hands and knees once more and crawled from the Presence.
I can help to make your life here more bearable, but your fate is inevitable.
You may never hope to return to the outer world." "What will be my fate?
I asked. "That will depend largely upon Issus.
So long as she does not send for you and reveal her face to you, you may live on for years in as mild a form of bondage as I can arrange for you." "Why should she send for me?
I asked. "The men of the lower orders she often uses for various purposes of amusement.
Such a fighter as you, for example, would render fine sport in the monthly rites of the temple.
There are men pitted against men, and against beasts for the edification of Issus and the replenishment of her larder." "She eats human flesh?
The flesh of the others goes to our boards.
The animals are eaten by the slaves.
She also eats other dainties." I did not understand then that there lay any special significance in his reference to other dainties.
I thought the limit of ghoulishness already had been reached in the recitation of Issus' menu.
Again Issus bid me rise. For several minutes all was silent as the tomb.
What I saw was a solid phalanx of armed men between myself and a dais supporting a great bench of carved sorapus wood.
On this bench, or throne, squatted a female black.
She was evidently very old.
Not a hair remained upon her wrinkled skull.
With the exception of two yellow fangs she was entirely toothless.
On either side of her thin, hawk-like nose her eyes burned from the depths of horribly sunken sockets.
The skin of her face was seamed and creased with a million deepcut furrows.
For the disgrace you have brought upon the Immortal Race you shall be degraded to a rank below the lowest.
No longer be you a Dator, but for evermore a slave of slaves, to fetch and carry for the lower orders that serve in the gardens of Issus.
Cowards and slaves wear no trappings." Xodar stood stiffly erect.
Not a muscle twitched, nor a tremor shook his giant frame as a soldier of the guard roughly stripped his gorgeous trappings from him. "Begone," screamed the infuriated little old woman.
Begone, but instead of the light of the gardens of Issus let you serve as a slave of this slave who conquered you in the prison on the Isle of Shador in the Sea of Omean.
Take him away out of the sight of my divine eyes." Slowly and with high held head the proud Xodar turned and stalked from the chamber.
Issus rose and turned to leave the room by another exit. Turning to me, she said: "You shall be returned to Shador for the present.
Later Issus will see the manner of your fighting.
Then she disappeared, followed by her retinue.
Only Phaidor lagged behind, and as I started to follow my guard toward the gardens, the girl came running after me. "Oh, do not leave me in this terrible place," she begged.
Forgive the things I said to you, my Prince.
I did not mean them.
Only take me away with you.
Let me share your imprisonment on Shador.
Her words were an almost incoherent volley of thoughts, so rapidly she spoke.
You did not understand the honour that I did you.
Among the therns there is no marriage or giving in marriage, as among the lower orders of the outer world.
We might have lived together for ever in love and happiness.
We have both looked upon Issus and in a year we die.
I do not wish to hurt you, nor to seem to undervalue the honour which you have done me, but the thing you desire may not be.
Regardless of the foolish belief of the peoples of the outer world, or of Holy Thern, or ebon First Born, I am not dead.
While I live my heart beats for but one woman-the incomparable Dejah Thoris, Princess of Helium. When death overtakes me my heart shall have ceased to beat; but what comes after that I know not.
And in that I am as wise as Matai Shang, Master of Life and Death upon Barsoom; or Issus, Goddess of Life Eternal." Phaidor stood looking at me intently for a moment.
No anger showed in her eyes this time, only a pathetic expression of hopeless sorrow. "I do not understand," she said, and turning walked slowly in the direction of the door through which Issus and her retinue had passed.
A moment later she had passed from my sight. CHAPTER X THE PRISON ISLE OF SHADOR In the outer gardens to which the guard now escorted me, I found Xodar surrounded by a crowd of noble blacks.
They were reviling and cursing him.
The men slapped his face.
The women spat upon him. When I appeared they turned their attentions toward me. "Ah," cried one, "so this is the creature who overcame the great Xodar bare-handed.
Let us see how it was done." "Let him bind Thurid," suggested a beautiful woman, laughing.
Thurid is a noble Dator.
Let Thurid show the dog what it means to face a real man." "Yes, Thurid!
What would you of Thurid?" Quickly a dozen voices explained. Thurid turned toward Xodar, his eyes narrowing to two nasty slits. "Calot!" he hissed.
Ever did I think you carried the heart of a sorak in your putrid breast.
Often have you bested me in the secret councils of Issus, but now in the field of war where men are truly gauged your scabby heart hath revealed its sores to all the world.
Calot, I spurn you with my foot," and with the words he turned to kick Xodar. My blood was up.
For minutes it had been boiling at the cowardly treatment they had been according this once powerful comrade because he had fallen from the favour of Issus.
The degraded Dator stood erect and motionless as a carven image.
And then I stooped beside the prostrate form, tore the harness from it, and bound the fellow's arms and legs securely. "As you have done to Xodar, now do you likewise to Thurid.
Take this man to your goddess, as I have said, and tell her, too, that as I have done to Xodar and Thurid, so also can I do to the mightiest of her Dators.
With naked hands, with long-sword or with short-sword, I challenge the flower of her fighting-men to combat." "Come," said the officer who was guarding me back to Shador; "my orders are imperative; there is to be no delay.
Xodar, come you also." There was little of disrespect in the tone that the man used in addressing either Xodar or myself.
We dropped down the awful shaft in the same car that had brought us to the surface.
There we entered the submarine, taking the long dive to the tunnel far beneath the upper world.
Here we found a small stone prison and a guard of half a dozen blacks.
There was no ceremony wasted in completing our incarceration.
I fell to wondering about the fate of the great Thark, and of his beautiful companion, the girl, Thuvia.
Nor would it have advantaged me any had they known the exact location of my prison, for who could hope to penetrate to this buried sea in the face of the mighty navy of the First Born?
No: my case was hopeless. Well, I would make the best of it, and, rising, I swept aside the brooding despair that had been endeavouring to claim me.
With the idea of exploring my prison, I started to look around. Xodar sat, with bowed head, upon a low stone bench near the centre of the room in which we were.
He had not spoken since Issus had degraded him. The building was roofless, the walls rising to a height of about thirty feet.
Half-way up were a couple of small, heavily barred windows.
The prison was divided into several rooms by partitions twenty feet high. There was no one in the room which we occupied, but two doors which led to other rooms were opened.
I entered one of these rooms, but found it vacant.
As he slept I leaned over and looked at him.
There was something strangely familiar about his face, and yet I could not place him. His features were very regular and, like the proportions of his graceful limbs and body, beautiful in the extreme.
It were no disgrace to be bested by John Carter.
You have seen that in the ease with which I accounted for Thurid.
You knew it before when on the cruiser's deck you saw me slay three of your comrades." "I would that you had dispatched me at the same time," he said. "Come, come!
Neither of us is dead.
Why not win to freedom?" He looked at me in amazement. "You know not of what you speak," he replied.
Issus is omnipotent. Issus is omniscient.
She hears now the words you speak.
She knows the thoughts you think.
It is sacrilege even to dream of breaking her commands." "Rot, Xodar," I ejaculated impatiently. He sprang to his feet in horror. "The curse of Issus will fall upon you," he cried.
In another instant you will be smitten down, writhing to your death in horrible agony." "Do you believe that, Xodar?
I asked. "Of course; who would dare doubt?" "I doubt; yes, and further, I deny," I said.
Why, Xodar, you tell me that she even knows my thoughts.
The red men have all had that power for ages.
They can shut their minds so that none may read their thoughts.
For a year, possibly, we may be forced to live together in the narrow confines of this tiny room.
No, Xodar, your Issus is a mortal old woman.
Once out of her clutches and she cannot harm you. "With your knowledge of this strange land, and my knowledge of the outer world, two such fighting-men as you and I should be able to win our way to freedom.
He did not renew the attack upon me, nor did he speak.
What do you here?" "I await my death, I presume," I replied with a wry smile. He too smiled, a brave and winning smile. "I also," he said.
I looked upon the radiant beauty of Issus nearly a year since.
It has always been a source of keen wonder to me that I did not drop dead at the first sight of that hideous countenance.
By my first ancestor, but never was there so grotesque a figure in all the universe.
That they should call such a one Goddess of Life Eternal, Goddess of Death, Mother of the Nearer Moon, and fifty other equally impossible titles, is quite beyond me." "How came you here?
I asked. "It is very simple.
I was flying a one-man air scout far to the south when the brilliant idea occurred to me that I should like to search for the Lost Sea of Korus which tradition places near to the south pole.
I asked. "He died before the shell broke to let me step out into a world that has been very good to me.
But for the sorrow that I had never the honour to know my father, I have been very happy.
My only sorrow now is that my mother must mourn me as she has for ten long years mourned my father." "Who was your father?
This cowardly slave of a slave is to serve you well," he said to me, indicating Xodar with a wave of his hand.
If he does not, you are to beat him into submission.
It is Issus' wish that you heap upon him every indignity and degradation of which you can conceive." With these words he left us. Xodar still sat with his face buried in his hands.
I walked to his side and placed my hand upon his shoulder. "Xodar," I said, "you have heard the commands of Issus, but you need not fear that I shall attempt to put them into execution.
You are a brave man, Xodar.
I am ready to defy Issus herself; but what will it avail us?
Be the First Born gods or mortals, they are a powerful race, and we are as fast in their clutches as though we were already dead.
Test this flint-like surface," he cried, smiting the solid rock that confined us.
And look upon this polished surface; none could cling to it to reach the top." I smiled. "That is the least of our troubles, Xodar," I replied.
No watch is kept upon the cruisers and smaller craft.
The watchers upon the larger vessels see to all about them.
It is night now." "But," I exclaimed, "it is not dark!
How can it be night, then?" He smiled. "You forget," he said, "that we are far below ground.
The light of the sun never penetrates here.
There are no moons and no stars reflected in the bosom of Omean.
From Xodar I learned the duties and customs of the guards who patrolled Shador.
It seemed that during the hours set aside for sleep only one man was on duty at a time.
He paced a beat that passed around the prison, at a distance of about a hundred feet from the building. The pace of the sentries, Xodar said, was very slow, requiring nearly ten minutes to make a single round.
Leave that to me." "When shall we make the attempt?" he asked. "The first night that finds a small craft moored near the shore of Shador," I replied. "But how will you know that any craft is moored near Shador?
Five feet above me was the top of a partition wall separating our cell from the next. There was my only chance to escape detection.
I heard the deep voice of the black bellow as my metal grated against the stone wall as I slipped over.
Then I dropped lightly to the floor of the cell beyond. "Where is the white slave?" again cried the guard. "I know not," replied Xodar.
He was here even as you entered.
I am not his keeper-go find him." The black grumbled something that I could not understand, and then I heard him unlocking the door into one of the other cells on the further side.
Listening intently, I caught the sound as the door closed behind him.
Then I sprang once more to the top of the partition and dropped into my own cell beside the astonished Xodar. "Do you see now how we will escape?
I asked him in a whisper. "I see how you may," he replied, "but I am no wiser than before as to how I am to pass these walls.
Certain it is that I cannot bounce over them as you do." We heard the guard moving about from cell to cell, and finally, his rounds completed, he again entered ours.
When his eyes fell upon me they fairly bulged from his head. "By the shell of my first ancestor!" he roared.
Where have you been?" "I have been in prison since you put me here yesterday," I answered.
I was in this room when you entered.
You had better look to your eyesight." He glared at me in mingled rage and relief. "Come," he said.
Issus commands your presence." He conducted me outside the prison, leaving Xodar behind.
There we found several other guards, and with them the red Martian youth who occupied another cell upon Shador. The journey I had taken to the Temple of Issus on the preceding day was repeated.
The guards kept the red boy and myself separated, so that we had no opportunity to continue the conversation that had been interrupted the previous night. The youth's face had haunted me.
Where had I seen him before.
There was something strangely familiar in every line of him; in his carriage, his manner of speaking, his gestures.
I could have sworn that I knew him, and yet I knew too that I had never seen him before. When we reached the gardens of Issus we were led away from the temple instead of toward it.
If, perchance, the black is killed, it is evidence of his disloyalty to Issus-the unpardonable sin.
If he lives through the contest he is held acquitted of the charge that forced the sentence of the rites, as it is called, upon him. "The forms of combat vary.
The only freedom for us death.
None who enters the domains of the First Born ever leave.
If we prove able fighters we are permitted to fight often.
If we are not mighty fighters-" He shrugged his shoulders.
Sooner or later we die in the arena." "And you have fought often?
I asked. "Very often," he replied.
It is my only pleasure.
I have known most of the warriors of Barsoom in my time; doubtless I knew him.
Who was he?" "My father was-" "Come, calots!" cried the rough voice of a guard.
Only the highest seats, which formed the low wall surrounding the pit, were above the level of the ground.
The arena itself was far below the surface. Just beneath the lowest tier of seats was a series of barred cages on a level with the surface of the arena.
Into these we were herded.
But, unfortunately, my youthful friend was not of those who occupied a cage with me. Directly opposite my cage was the throne of Issus.
Here the horrid creature squatted, surrounded by a hundred slave maidens sparkling in jewelled trappings.
There were as many women as men, and each was clothed in the wondrously wrought harness of his station and his house.
With each black was from one to three slaves, drawn from the domains of the therns and from the outer world.
The blacks are all "noble.
There is no peasantry among the First Born.
Even the lowest soldier is a god, and has his slaves to wait upon him. The First Born do no work.
The men fight-that is a sacred privilege and duty; to fight and die for Issus.
The women do nothing, absolutely nothing.
Slaves wash them, slaves dress them, slaves feed them.
It marked the end of those poor unfortunates who had looked upon the divine glory of the goddess a full year before.
There were ten of them-splendid beauties from the proud courts of mighty Jeddaks and from the temples of the Holy Therns.
Carefully he inspected them, felt of their limbs and poked them in the ribs. Presently he selected one of their number whom he led before the throne of Issus.
He addressed some words to the goddess which I could not hear.
I asked. "That was her dinner that old Thabis is taking to the kitchens.
The girls shrank in a frightened group in the centre of the enclosure. One was on her knees with imploring hands outstretched toward Issus; but the hideous deity only leaned further forward in keener anticipation of the entertainment to come.
At length the apes spied the huddled knot of terror-stricken maidens and with demoniacal shrieks of bestial frenzy, charged upon them. A wave of mad fury surged over me.
The cruel cowardliness of the power-drunk creature whose malignant mind conceived such frightful forms of torture stirred to their uttermost depths my resentment and my manhood.
The blood-red haze that presaged death to my foes swam before my eyes. The guard lolled before the unbarred gate of the cage which confined me.
What need of bars, indeed, to keep those poor victims from rushing into the arena which the edict of the gods had appointed as their death place! A single blow sent the black unconscious to the ground.
Snatching up his long-sword, I sprang into the arena.
From the tail of my eye I saw a score of guards rushing across the glistening sand toward me.
Then a figure broke from one of the cages behind them.
It was the youth whose personality so fascinated me. He paused a moment before the cages, with upraised sword. "Come, men of the outer world!" he shouted.
The racks without your cages are filled with blades." Without waiting to note the outcome of his plea, he turned and bounded toward me.
From every cage that harboured red men a thunderous shout went up in answer to his exhortation.
Close behind them pursued the youth.
Never had I seen such speed in any Martian.
On they came with fierce cries, while from every side the armed prisoners swarmed upon them. For half an hour it was as though all hell had broken loose.
I could see messengers running swiftly through the audience, and as they passed the nobles there unsheathed their swords and sprang into the arena.
We mowed them down before us as they had been paper men. "To the seats, some of you!
I cried as we approached the arena's barrier wall.
Others swarmed in to fill the breach, but inch by inch, foot by foot we won nearer and nearer to our goal. Presently a cry went up from a section of the stands near by-"Rise slaves!
In all parts of the structure the female slaves were falling upon their masters with whatever weapon came first to hand.
Rise slaves!" Only a single thin rank of men now stood between us and Issus.
Her face was blue with terror.
She seemed too paralysed with fear to move.
Only the youth and I fought now.
The others all had fallen, and I was like to have gone down too from a nasty long-sword cut had not a hand reached out from behind my adversary and clutched his elbow as the blade was falling upon me.
It is useless to fight them longer.
All within the arena are dead.
All who charged the throne are dead but you and this youth.
Only among the seats are there left any of your fighting-men, and they and the slave women are fast being cut down. Listen!
You can scarce hear the battle-cry of the women now for nearly all are dead.
For each one of you there are ten thousand blacks within the domains of the First Born.
Break for the open and the sea of Korus. With your mighty sword arm you may yet win to the Golden Cliffs and the templed gardens of the Holy Therns.
There tell your story to Matai Shang, my father.
He will keep you, and together you may find a way to rescue me.
I shouted, and together the boy and I took up the fight once more.
Two blacks went down with our swords in their vitals, and we stood face to face with Issus.
As my sword went up to end her horrid career her paralysis left her, and with an ear-piercing shriek she turned to flee.
Directly behind her a black gulf suddenly yawned in the flooring of the dais.
She sprang for the opening with the youth and I close at her heels.
Her scattered guard rallied at her cry and rushed for us.
A blow fell upon the head of the youth.
My foot felt for the floor but found only empty space.
I had backed into the pit which had received Issus.
For a second I toppled there upon the brink.
You shall pay the awful penalty for your blasphemy in this secret cell.
In another instant she was gone, and the dim light which had filled the cell faded into Cimmerian blackness. "Pleasant old lady," said a voice at my side. "Who speaks?
I asked. "'Tis I, your companion, who has had the honour this day of fighting shoulder to shoulder with the greatest warrior that ever wore metal upon Barsoom." "I thank God that you are not dead," I said.
I feared for that nasty cut upon your head." "It but stunned me," he replied.
A mere scratch." "Maybe it were as well had it been final," I said.
We seem to be in a pretty fix here with a splendid chance of dying of starvation and thirst." "Where are we?" "Beneath the arena," I replied.
The blacks in charge of the work explored them, taking several of us along to do whatever work there might be occasion for.
Xodar, the black, is there.
We were to attempt our escape together, so I cannot desert him." "No," said the boy, "one cannot desert a friend.
It were better to be recaptured ourselves than that." Then he commenced groping his way about the floor of the dark chamber searching for the trap that led to the corridors beneath.
Hang by your hands and you will alight safely on a level floor of soft sand." Very quietly I lowered myself from the inky cell above into the inky pit below.
So utterly dark was it that we could not see our hands at an inch from our noses.
Never, I think, have I known such complete absence of light as existed in the pits of Issus. For an instant I hung in mid air.
There is a strange sensation connected with an experience of that nature which is quite difficult to describe.
At the lower levels we meet the same stratum of phosphorescent rock that illuminates Omean." Never shall I forget that trip through the pits of Issus.
While it was devoid of important incidents yet it was filled for me with a strange charm of excitement and adventure which I think must have hinged principally on the unguessable antiquity of these long-forgotten corridors.
The blacks, the whites, and a race of yellow men.
From then on our progress was rapid until we came suddenly to the end of a corridor that let directly upon the ledge surrounding the pool of the submarine. The craft lay at her moorings with uncovered hatch.
Raising his finger to his lips and then tapping his sword in a significant manner, the youth crept noiselessly toward the vessel.
I was close at his heels. Silently we dropped to the deserted deck, and on hands and knees crawled toward the hatchway.
A stealthy glance below revealed no guard in sight, and so with the quickness and the soundlessness of cats we dropped together into the main cabin of the submarine.
Even here was no sign of life.
Quickly we covered and secured the hatch. Then the boy stepped into the pilot house, touched a button and the boat sank amid swirling waters toward the bottom of the shaft.
Even then there was no scurrying of feet as we had expected, and while the boy remained to direct the boat I slid from cabin to cabin in futile search for some member of the crew.
Come with what men you have and those that you can gather on the way.
Too late to get aid from Omean.
They are massacring all within the amphitheatre.
Haste. "ZITHAD" "Zithad is Dator of the guards of Issus," explained the youth.
Here we debated the wisdom of sinking the craft before leaving her, but finally decided that it would add nothing to our chances for escape.
At last I hit upon a plan. "What is the name or title of the officer in charge of these guards?
I asked the boy. "A fellow named Torith was on duty when we entered this morning," he replied. "Good.
Come, we shall see now how well it works." "But our swords!" he exclaimed.
I could not follow another leader who inspired greater confidence than you.
It was the very boldness of the plan which rendered it successful. "Were you connected with the rising of the slaves?" asked Torith.
We have just had meagre reports of some such event." "All were involved," I replied.
But it amounted to little.
The guards quickly overcame and killed the majority of us." He seemed satisfied with this reply.
Take them to Shador," he ordered, turning to one of his subordinates.
No more is needed to completely shatter the last remnant of my superstitious belief in the divinity of Issus.
She is only a wicked old woman, wielding a mighty power for evil through machinations that have kept her own people and all Barsoom in religious ignorance for ages." "She is still all-powerful here, however," I replied.
How may I aid in the adventure?" "Can you swim?
I asked him. "No slimy silian that haunts the depths of Korus is more at home in water than is Xodar," he replied. "Good.
The red one in all probability cannot swim," I said, "since there is scarce enough water in all their domains to float the tiniest craft.
One of us therefore will have to support him through the sea to the craft we select.
I had hoped that we might make the entire distance below the surface, but I fear that the red youth could not thus perform the trip.
Three swords are better than two.
Especially when the third is as mighty as this fellow's.
I have seen him battle in the arena at the rites of Issus many times.
Never, until I saw you fight, had I seen one who seemed unconquerable even in the face of great odds. One might think you two master and pupil, or father and son.
Come to recall his face there is a resemblance between you.
She works through the Holy Therns who are as ignorant of her real self as are the Barsoomians of the outer world. Her decrees are borne to the therns written in blood upon a strange parchment.
The poor deluded fools think that they are receiving the revelations of a goddess through some supernatural agency, since they find these messages upon their guarded altars to which none could have access without detection.
I myself have borne these messages for Issus for many years.
There is a long tunnel from the temple of Issus to the principal temple of Matai Shang.
It was dug ages ago by the slaves of the First Born in such utter secrecy that no thern ever guessed its existence. "The therns for their part have temples dotted about the entire civilized world.
It is criminal for a First Born to labour or invent.
That is the work of the lower orders, who live merely that the First Born may enjoy long lives of luxury and idleness.
Our females would live for ever but for the fact that we tire of them and remove them to make place for others.
Issus alone of all is protected against death.
She has lived for countless ages." "Would not the other Barsoomians live for ever but for the doctrine of the voluntary pilgrimage which drags them to the bosom of Iss at or before their thousandth year?
At a little distance from the island, a quarter of a mile perhaps, lay a monster battleship, while between her and the shore were a number of smaller cruisers and one-man scouts.
Upon the battleship alone was there a watch.
I could see him plainly in the upper works of the ship, and as I watched I saw him spread his sleeping silks upon the tiny platform in which he was stationed.
Soon he threw himself at full length upon his couch.
The discipline on Omean was lax indeed.
But it is not to be wondered at since no enemy guessed the existence upon Barsoom of such a fleet, or even of the First Born, or the Sea of Omean.
And I knew then that the First Born had stolen it from the ships of Helium, for only they are thus geared.
There I found a flat surface about a foot in width and along this I walked until I came to the cell in which I saw the boy sitting upon his bench.
He had been leaning back against the wall looking up at the glowing dome above Omean, and when he spied me balancing upon the partition wall above him his eyes opened wide in astonishment.
I have tried it many times, and each day I come a little closer.
Some day I should have been able to make it." I lay upon my belly across the wall and reached my hand far down toward him.
Let us go." Another moment found me at the top of the partition wall again with the boy beside me.
Unbuckling my harness I snapped it together with a single long strap which I lowered to the waiting Xodar below.
He grasped the end and was soon sitting beside us. "How simple," he laughed. "The balance should be even simpler," I replied.
Then I raised myself to the top of the outer wall of the prison, just so that I could peer over and locate the passing sentry.
The moment his form disappeared I grasped Xodar and drew him to the top of the wall.
At the far side of the room a rack held the swords and firearms of the men.
Warily I pushed the door a trifle wider to admit my body.
A hinge gave out a resentful groan.
One of the men stirred, and my heart stood still.
My hands hovered about his throat awaiting the moment that his eyes should open.
For what seemed an eternity to my overwrought nerves I remained poised thus.
Then the fellow turned again upon his side and resumed the even respiration of deep slumber. Carefully I picked my way between and over the soldiers until I had gained the rack at the far side of the room.
Here I turned to survey the sleeping men.
Their regular breathing rose and fell in a soothing rhythm that seemed to me the sweetest music I ever had heard. Gingerly I drew a long-sword from the rack.
The scraping of the scabbard against its holder as I withdrew it sounded like the filing of cast iron with a great rasp, and I looked to see the room immediately filled with alarmed and attacking guardsmen.
But none stirred. The second sword I withdrew noiselessly, but the third clanked in its scabbard with a frightful din.
I knew that it must awaken some of the men at least, and was on the point of forestalling their attack by a rapid charge for the doorway, when again, to my intense surprise, not a black moved.
Either they were wondrous heavy sleepers or else the noises that I made were really much less than they seemed to me. I was about to leave the rack when my attention was attracted by the revolvers.
I knew that I could not carry more than one away with me, for I was already too heavily laden to move quietly with any degree of safety or speed.
As I took one of them from its pin my eye fell for the first time on an open window beside the rack.
Where I hit him I do not know, nor if I killed him, for scarce had he started to collapse when I was through the window at my rear.
In another second the waters of Omean closed above my head, and the three of us were making for the little flier a hundred yards away. Xodar was burdened with the boy, and I with the three long-swords.
The revolver I had dropped, so that while we were both strong swimmers it seemed to me that we moved at a snail's pace through the water.
Then an alarm gun bellowed from a ship's bow, its deep boom reverberating in deafening tones beneath the rocky dome of Omean. Instantly the sleeping thousands were awake.
They dare not fire their heavy guns toward the dome-the fragments of the shells would drop back among their own craft.
If we are high enough our keel plates will protect us from rifle fire." I did as he bade.
Below us we could see the men leaping into the water by hundreds, and striking out for the small cruisers and one-man fliers that lay moored about the big ships.
It was useless to try to pass over her, for that would have allowed her to force us against the rocky dome above, and we were already too near that as it was.
To have attempted to dive below her would have put us entirely at her mercy, and precisely where she wanted us.
On either side a hundred other menacing craft were hastening toward us.
What I had hoped for happened. The cruiser, already tilted at a perilous angle, was carried completely over backward by the impact of my smaller vessel.
If one cannot pass over it, or below it, or around it, why then there is but a single alternative left, and that is to pass through it.
For the love of your first ancestor, reverse.
We are at the shaft." "Hold tight!
Grasp the boy and hold tight-we are going straight up the shaft." The words were scarce out of my mouth as we swept beneath the pitch-black opening.
By this I steered, endeavouring to keep the circle of light below me ever perfect.
Omean lies perhaps two miles below the surface crust of Mars.
Black darkness enshrouded all about us.
There were neither moons nor stars.
Never before had I seen such a thing upon Mars, and for the moment I was nonplussed.
Then the explanation came to me.
It was summer at the south pole.
I dropped into a horizontal course and headed due north. Our enemies were a good half-hour behind us with no conception of our direction.
We had performed the miraculous and come through a thousand dangers unscathed-we had escaped from the land of the First Born.
No one else could have accomplished it but John Carter." At the sound of that name the boy jumped to his feet. "John Carter!" he cried.
Why, man, John Carter, Prince of Helium, has been dead for years.
I am his son." CHAPTER XIV THE EYES IN THE DARK My son!
I could not believe my ears.
Slowly I rose and faced the handsome youth.
Now that I looked at him closely I commenced to see why his face and personality had attracted me so strongly.
Do you know what thing it was that convinced me more than all the others?" "What, my boy?
I asked. "Your first words to me-they were of my mother.
Tell me of her." "Those who have known her longest say that she has not changed, unless it be to grow more beautiful-were that possible.
Only, when she thinks I am not about to see her, her face grows very sad, and, oh, so wistful.
She thinks ever of you, my father, and all Helium mourns with her and for her.
Her grandfather's people love her.
Upon all Barsoom there is no greater name than John Carter." "And by what name has your mother called you, my boy?
So long as we were rising at a stiff angle it was not noticeable, but now that I am trying to keep a horizontal course it is different.
The wound in her bow has opened one of her forward ray tanks." It was true, and after I had examined the damage I found it a much graver matter than I had anticipated.
The boat responded to the touch, and very gently we began to sink toward the ground. It was fully half an hour before we touched.
There we found numbers of huge milk-giving shrubs-that strange plant which serves in great part as food and drink for the wild hordes of green men.
It was indeed a boon to us, for we all were nearly famished. Beneath a cluster of these which afforded perfect concealment from wandering air scouts, we lay down to sleep-for me the first time in many hours.
This was the beginning of my fifth day upon Barsoom since I had found myself suddenly translated from my cottage on the Hudson to Dor, the valley beautiful, the valley hideous.
In all this time I had slept but twice, though once the clock around within the storehouse of the therns. It was mid-afternoon when I was awakened by some one seizing my hand and covering it with kisses.
With a start I opened my eyes to look into the beautiful face of Thuvia. "My Prince!
My Prince!" she cried, in an ecstasy of happiness.
Tis you whom I had mourned as dead.
My ancestors have been good to me; I have not lived in vain." The girl's voice awoke Xodar and Carthoris.
The boy gazed upon the woman in surprise, but she did not seem to realize the presence of another than I.
She would have thrown her arms about my neck and smothered me with caresses, had I not gently but firmly disengaged myself. "Come, come, Thuvia," I said soothingly; "you are overwrought by the danger and hardships you have passed through.
You forget yourself, as you forget that I am the husband of the Princess of Helium." "I forget nothing, my Prince," she replied.
You have spoken no word of love to me, nor do I expect that you ever shall; but nothing can prevent me loving you.
I would not take the place of Dejah Thoris.
There you shall find plenty of handsome young nobles who would face Issus herself to win a smile from you, and we shall have you married in short order to one of the best of them.
Forget your foolish gratitude-begotten infatuation, which your innocence has mistaken for love.
I like your friendship better, Thuvia." "You are my master; it shall be as you say," she replied simply, but there was a note of sadness in her voice. "How came you here, Thuvia?
And where is Tars Tarkas?" "The great Thark, I fear, is dead," she replied sadly.
He was a mighty fighter, but a multitude of green warriors of another horde than his overwhelmed him.
The last that I saw of him they were bearing him, wounded and bleeding, to the deserted city from which they had sallied to attack us." "You are not sure that he is dead, then?
And where is this city of which you speak?" "It is just beyond this range of hills.
The vessel in which you so nobly resigned a place that we might find escape defied our small skill in navigation, with the result that we drifted aimlessly about for two days.
Then we decided to abandon the craft and attempt to make our way on foot to the nearest waterway.
Yesterday we crossed these hills and came upon the dead city beyond.
When they have seen my metal it will be to the death.' "Then he stepped out to meet them.
Ah, my Prince, such fighting!
Then he stumbled and went down and they rolled over him like a huge wave.
When they carried him away toward the heart of the city, he was dead, I think, for I did not see him move." "Before we go farther we must be sure," I said.
I cannot leave Tars Tarkas alive among the Warhoons.
To-night I shall enter the city and make sure." "And I shall go with you," spoke Carthoris. "And I," said Xodar. "Neither one of you shall go," I replied.
It is work that requires stealth and strategy, not force.
One man alone may succeed where more would invite disaster.
If I need your help, I will return for you." They did not like it, but both were good soldiers, and it had been agreed that I should command.
The city had been built upon the gently rolling foothills that in the dim and distant past had sloped down to meet the sea.
At intersections I halted a moment to make sure that none was in sight before I sprang quickly to the shadows of the opposite side.
Thus I made the journey to the vicinity of the plaza without detection.
It was as one might feel on coming home after a long absence.
They all went in the same direction, toward a great building which stood in the centre of the plaza.
My knowledge of green Martian customs convinced me that this was either the quarters of the principal chieftain or contained the audience chamber wherein the Jeddak met his jeds and lesser chieftains.
I had entered the city from the south and now stood on the corner of the avenue through which I had passed and the first intersecting avenue south of the plaza.
Within the court a great herd of thoats and zitidars moved restlessly about, cropping the moss-like ochre vegetation which overgrows practically the entire uncultivated area of Mars.
What breeze there was came from the north-west, so there was little danger that the beasts would scent me.
These were lighted for about three floors up, but above the third floor all was dark. To pass through the lighted rooms was, of course, out of the question, since they swarmed with green Martian men and women.
My only path lay through the upper floors, and to gain these it was necessary to scale the face of the wall.
The reaching of the balcony of the second floor was a matter of easy accomplishment-an agile leap gave my hands a grasp upon the stone hand-rail above.
At least I would learn the location of his prison. At my right was a door leading from the balcony into the building.
It was at the end of an unlighted hall, and on the impulse of the moment I stepped within.
The hall was broad and led straight through to the front of the building.
On either side were the doorways of the various apartments which lined it. I had no more than entered the corridor than I saw the three warriors at the other end-those whom I had just seen leaving the apartment.
Then a turn to the right took them from my sight again.
Quickly I hastened along the hallway in pursuit.
The three had evidently left the floor by this avenue.
And so I felt certain that Tars Tarkas lay in the dark pits beneath some nearby building, and that in that direction I should find the trail of the three warriors leading to his cell. Nor was I wrong.
The way led through a maze of tortuous corridors, unlighted save for the wavering light they carried.
We had gone perhaps a hundred yards when the party turned abruptly through a doorway at their right.
I hastened on as rapidly as I dared through the darkness until I reached the point at which they had left the corridor.
There was nothing for me but to hasten on in advance and keep out of the light of their torch.
I dared not attempt to halt in the darkness of any of the many intersecting corridors, for I knew nothing of the direction they might take.
Chance was as likely as not to carry me into the very corridor they might choose to enter. The sensation of moving rapidly through these dark passages was far from reassuring.
I knew not at what moment I might plunge headlong into some terrible pit or meet with some of the ghoulish creatures that inhabit these lower worlds beneath the dead cities of dying Mars.
I had hastened along one of them for some little distance when suddenly the faint light of the torch disappeared from behind me.
After what seemed an eternity to me, I reached the place and recognized it by groping across the entrances to the several corridors until I had counted five of them.
Here was a pretty fix, indeed!
Once back at the point where the five passageways met, I might wait with some assurance for the return of the warriors with Tars Tarkas.
My knowledge of their customs lent colour to the belief that he was but being escorted to the audience chamber to have sentence passed upon him.
Suddenly I heard the shuffling noise at my right, and, looking, saw another pair of eyes, evidently approaching from an intersecting corridor.
As I started to renew my slow retreat I heard the noise repeated behind me, and then before I could turn I heard it again at my left. The things were all about me.
They had me surrounded at the intersection of two corridors.
Retreat was cut off in all directions, unless I chose to charge one of the beasts.
Even then I had no doubt but that the others would hurl themselves upon my back.
I could not even guess the size or nature of the weird creatures.
That they were of goodly proportions I guessed from the fact that the eyes were on a level with my own. Why is it that darkness so magnifies our dangers?
Gradually they were closing in upon me-but still that awful stealthy silence! For what seemed hours the eyes approached gradually closer and closer, until I felt that I should go mad for the horror of it.
I had been constantly turning this way and that to prevent any sudden rush from behind, until I was fairly worn out.
With a cry of rage I turned to meet the cowardly beasts, but as I advanced they retreated as had their fellow.
That they were waiting to spring upon my back seemed evident, and that it would not be long before they succeeded was equally apparent, for I could not endure the wear of this repeated charge and countercharge indefinitely.
The eyes in front were not retreating so rapidly now; I was almost within sword reach of them.
I raised my sword arm to deal the blow that should free me, and then I felt a heavy body upon my back.
A cold, moist, slimy something fastened itself upon my throat.
It came from a torch in the hand of one of a party of four green warriors, who were coming rapidly down the corridor toward me.
They had not yet seen me, and so I lost no time in slipping into the first intersecting corridor that I could find.
As they passed by I breathed a sigh of relief.
I had not been discovered, and, best of all, the party was the same that I had followed into the pits.
It consisted of Tars Tarkas and his three guards. I fell in behind them and soon we were at the cell in which the great Thark had been chained.
Two of the warriors remained without while the man with the keys entered with the Thark to fasten his irons upon him once more.
It is enough that within another minute or two, Tars Tarkas, wearing the metal of a Warhoon chief, was hurrying down the corridor toward the spiral runway, bearing the Warhoon's torch to light his way.
And now I find that I have left my short-sword in the Thark's cell.
Go you on, I'll return and fetch it." "As you will, Tan Gama," replied he who had before spoken.
We shall see you above directly." "Yes," replied Tars Tarkas, and turned as though to retrace his steps to the cell, but he only waited until the two had disappeared at the floor above.
We could hear the sounds of conversation coming from the room above, but the hall still was unlighted, nor was any one in sight as we gained the top of the runway.
What mean you?" "Tan Gama left his short-sword in the Thark's cell," explained the first speaker, "and left us at the runway, to return and get it." "Tan Gama wore no short-sword this night," said the woman.
It was broken in to-day's battle with the Thark, and Tan Gama gave it to me to repair.
Methought then that his voice sounded strangely." "Come! let us hasten to the pits." We waited to hear no more.
We shall need five thoats to bear us." "Carthoris!" he cried.
I found him in the prison of Shador, on the Sea of Omean, in the land of the First Born." "I know not any of these places, John Carter.
Be they upon Barsoom?" "Upon and below, my friend; but wait until we shall have made good our escape, and you shall hear the strangest narrative that ever a Barsoomian of the outer world gave ear to.
Their long, massive necks upreared raised their great, gaping mouths high above our heads.
They are fearsome appearing brutes at best, but when they are aroused they are fully as dangerous as they look.
The thoat stands a good ten feet at the shoulder.
His hide is sleek and hairless, and of a dark slate colour on back and sides, shading down his eight legs to a vivid yellow at the huge, padded, nailless feet; the belly is pure white.
Then Thuvia was lifted to the least fractious thoat, Xodar and Carthoris mounted two others, and we set out at a rapid pace toward the east.
The beasts we hobbled, that they might move slowly about cropping the ochre moss-like vegetation which constitutes both food and drink for them on the march.
Tars Tarkas, whose giant stature towered high above the rest of us, could see the farthest. "It is a great body of mounted men," he said, "and they are travelling at high speed." There was no time to be lost.
We sprang to our hobbled thoats, freed them, and mounted.
Slowly but surely they were lessening the distance between us.
As they saw us a fiendish shout of triumph rose from their ranks. Several miles in advance lay a range of hills-the farther shore of the dead sea we had been crossing.
Could we but reach these hills our chances of escape would be greatly enhanced, but Thuvia's mount, although carrying the lightest burden, already was showing signs of exhaustion.
I was riding beside her when suddenly her animal staggered and lurched against mine.
Thuvia and I were in the rear, for our beast was lagging more and more. Suddenly I felt the girl's warm lips press a kiss upon my shoulder. "For thy sake, O my Prince," she murmured.
She should have known John Carter better than that. Turning my thoat, I urged him after her, hoping to reach her side and bear her on again in our hopeless flight.
Then he attempted to do the same with mine. The brave boy's act of chivalrous self-sacrifice filled me with pride, nor did I care that it had wrested from us our last frail chance for escape.
The Warhoons were now close upon us.
Tars Tarkas and Xodar had discovered our absence and were charging rapidly to our support. Everything pointed toward a splendid ending of my second journey to Barsoom.
At once all was confusion.
A hundred warriors toppled to the ground.
Riderless thoats plunged hither and thither among the dead and dying.
Dismounted warriors were trampled underfoot in the stampede which followed.
All semblance of order had left the ranks of the green men, and as they looked far above our heads to trace the origin of this unexpected attack, disorder turned to retreat and retreat to a wild panic.
Hor Vastus greets the son of Dejah Thoris, Princess of Helium, and of her husband, John Carter.
Where have you been, O my Prince?
All Helium has been plunged in sorrow.
My Prince," he started, "where hast thou-" and then he stopped, but I knew the question that his lips dared not frame.
The thing was equivalent to saying, "My sword, my body, my life, my soul are yours to do with as you wish. Until death and after death I look to you alone for authority for my every act.
Never had I known this high tribute paid to a lesser mortal.
There was but one response possible.
It could not be possible that she had gone far since we had last seen her.
We others stepped to the deck of the craft that had been sent to fetch us, and a moment later were upon the _Xavarian_. The first man to greet me was Kantos Kan himself.
To-day he commanded all Helium's great terrors of the skies, and I was a Prince of the House of Tardos Mors, Jeddak of Helium. He did not ask me where I had been.
Like Hor Vastus, he too dreaded the truth and would not be the one to wrest a statement from me.
That it must come some time he well knew, but until it came he seemed satisfied to but know that I was with him once more.
He greeted Carthoris and Tars Tarkas with the keenest delight, but he asked neither where he had been.
He could scarcely keep his hands off the boy. "You do not know, John Carter," he said to me, "how we of Helium love this son of yours.
It is as though all the great love we bore his noble father and his poor mother had been centred in him.
For two weeks no word has come back from them, but rumours were rife that they had met with a terrible disaster and that all were dead. "About this time Zat Arras renewed his importunities for her hand in marriage.
He has been for ever after her since you disappeared.
What took place none knows, but the next day Dejah Thoris had disappeared, and with her had gone a dozen of her household guard and body servants, including Sola the green woman-Tars Tarkas' daughter, you recall.
No word left they of their intentions, but it is always thus with those who go upon the voluntary pilgrimage from which none returns.
We cannot think aught than that Dejah Thoris has sought the icy bosom of Iss, and that her devoted servants have chosen to accompany her. "Zat Arras was at Helium when she disappeared.
He commands this fleet which has been searching for her since.
No trace of her have we found, and I fear that it be a futile quest." While we talked, Hor Vastus' fliers were returning to the _Xavarian_. Not one, however, had discovered a trace of Thuvia.
There is naught else to do.
Nothing would please him better than to humiliate me and then to kill me.
Tars Tarkas, Jeddak of Thark, is Tardos Mors' best beloved ally.
The other is a friend and companion of the Prince of Helium-that is enough for me to know." "It is not enough for me, however," retorted Zat Arras.
More must I hear from those who have taken the pilgrimage than their names.
Where have you been, John Carter?" "I have just come from the Valley Dor and the Land of the First Born, Zat Arras," I replied. "Ah!" he exclaimed in evident pleasure, "you do not deny it, then?
You have returned from the bosom of Iss?" "I have come back from a land of false hope, from a valley of torture and death; with my companions I have escaped from the hideous clutches of lying fiends.
I have come back to the Barsoom that I saved from a painless death to again save her, but this time from death in its most frightful form." "Cease, blasphemer!" cried Zat Arras.
Hope not to save thy cowardly carcass by inventing horrid lies to-" But he got no further.
One does not call John Carter "coward" and "liar" thus lightly, and Zat Arras should have known it.
It will but involve us all, for I cannot see these men lay hands upon you without aiding you.
My officers and men will join me and we shall have a mutiny then that may lead to the revolution.
Zat Arras stood white and trembling amidst his officers.
In silence we embarked, and shortly after stepped once more upon the deck of the _Xavarian_.
Fifteen minutes later we received orders from the flagship to proceed toward Helium. Our journey thither was uneventful.
Carthoris and I were wrapped in the gloomiest of thoughts.
Kantos Kan was sombre in contemplation of the further calamity that might fall upon Helium should Zat Arras attempt to follow the age-old precedent that allotted a terrible death to fugitives from the Valley Dor.
Tars Tarkas grieved for the loss of his daughter.
Xodar alone was care-free-a fugitive and outlaw, he could be no worse off in Helium than elsewhere. "Let us hope that we may at least go out with good red blood upon our blades," he said.
It was a simple wish and one most likely to be gratified. Among the officers of the _Xavarian_ I thought I could discern division into factions ere we had reached Helium.
There were those who gathered about Carthoris and myself whenever the opportunity presented, while about an equal number held aloof from us.
They offered us only the most courteous treatment, but were evidently bound by their superstitious belief in the doctrine of Dor and Iss and Korus.
When we reached Helium there must be an accounting, and if Tardos Mors had not returned I feared that the enmity of Zat Arras might weigh heavily against us, for he represented the government of Helium.
To take sides against him were equivalent to treason.
As we descended in great circles toward the navy docks a mighty multitude could be seen surging in the streets beneath.
Helium had been notified by radio-aerogram of our approach. From the deck of the _Xavarian_ we four, Carthoris, Tars Tarkas, Xodar, and I, were transferred to a lesser flier to be transported to quarters within the Temple of Reward.
It is here that Martian justice is meted to benefactor and malefactor.
Here the hero is decorated.
Here the felon is condemned.
We were taken into the temple from the landing stage upon the roof, so that we did not pass among the people at all, as is customary.
The people in the temple plaza and in the streets for a distance of a full mile were standing as close packed as it was possible for them to get.
For those who may be interested, however, I will explain that the Martian day is a trifle over 24 hours 37 minutes duration (Earth time).
This the Martians divide into ten equal parts, commencing the day at about 6 A.M. Earth time.
The zodes are divided into fifty shorter periods, each of which in turn is composed of 200 brief periods of time, about equivalent to the earthly second.
The Barsoomian Table of Time as here given is but a part of the full table appearing in Captain Carter's notes. TABLE 200 tals . . . . . . . . .
1 xat 50 xats . . . . . . . . . 1 zode 10 zodes . . . . . . . . .
As is the custom upon Barsoom there were thirty-one, supposedly selected by lot from men of the noble class, for nobles were on trial.
But to my amazement I saw no single friendly face among them.
Practically all were Zodangans, and it was I to whom Zodanga owed her defeat at the hands of the green hordes and her subsequent vassalage to Helium.
We were assigned seats with our backs toward a small platform in the exact centre of the larger one.
This placed us facing the judges and the audience.
He who attempts it must be made dead for ever.
Judges, your duty lies plain before you-here can be no testimony in contravention of truth.
It was Kantos Kan, and as all eyes turned toward him he leaped past the Zodangan soldiery and sprang upon the platform. "What manner of justice be this?" he cried to Zat Arras.
The defendant has not been heard, nor has he had an opportunity to call others in his behalf.
In the name of the people of Helium I demand fair and impartial treatment for the Prince of Helium." A great cry arose from the audience then: "Justice!
He cannot nor does he ask it.
It is to the men of Helium that he states his case; nor does he appeal for mercy to any.
It is not in his own cause that he speaks now-it is in thine.
In the cause of your wives and daughters, and of wives and daughters yet unborn.
It is to save them from the unthinkably atrocious indignities that I have seen heaped upon the fair women of Barsoom in the place men call the Temple of Issus.
When I am done let the men of Zodanga have their will with me.
Zat Arras has taken my sword from me, so the men of Zodanga no longer fear me.
A sullen murmur rose louder and louder about the packed coliseum, and then Kantos Kan, who had not left the platform since first he had taken his place near me, raised his hand for silence.
When he could be heard he spoke to the people in a cool and level voice. "You have heard the fate that the men of Zodanga would mete to Helium's noblest hero.
It may be the duty of the men of Helium to accept the verdict as final.
Let each man act according to his own heart.
A hundred men surged up on the platform, and a hundred blades rattled and clanked to the floor at my feet.
Zat Arras and his officers were furious, but they were helpless.
Some one raised a cry: "Tardos Mors is dead-a thousand years to John Carter, Jeddak of Helium.
As I heard that and saw the ugly attitude of the men of Helium toward the soldiers of Zat Arras, I knew that only a miracle could avert a clash that would end in civil war. "Hold!
I cried, leaping to the Pedestal of Truth once more.
Let no man move till I am done.
A single sword thrust here to-day may plunge Helium into a bitter and bloody war the results of which none can foresee.
It will turn brother against brother and father against son. No man's life is worth that sacrifice.
If neither be back at the end of a year a second trial may be held-the thing has a precedent.
And then turning to Zat Arras, I said in a low voice: "Unless you be a bigger fool than I take you to be, you will grasp the chance I am offering you ere it is too late.
Once that multitude of swords below is drawn against your soldiery no man upon Barsoom-not even Tardos Mors himself-can avert the consequences.
What say you? Speak quickly." The Jed of Zodangan Helium raised his voice to the angry sea beneath us. "Stay your hands, men of Helium," he shouted, his voice trembling with rage.
The sentence of the court is passed, but the day of retribution has not been set.
I, Zat Arras, Jed of Zodanga, appreciating the royal connections of the prisoner and his past services to Helium and Barsoom, grant a respite of one year, or until the return of Mors Kajak, or Tardos Mors to Helium.
Disperse quietly to your houses.
And with a haughty sneer for Zat Arras upon his handsome lips, he turned and strode to the throne steps and up the Aisle of Hope.
Here my old slaves fell upon their knees and kissed my hands as I greeted them. They cared not where I had been.
I had not had the heart to tell him what Kantos Kan had told me.
With the stoicism of the green Martian he showed no sign of suffering, yet I knew that his grief was as poignant as my own.
Carthoris and I presided in the centre of our sides of the table-midway of the third side Dejah Thoris' high-backed, carven chair stood vacant except for her gorgeous wedding trappings and jewels which were draped upon it.
Behind stood a slave as in the days when his mistress had occupied her place at the board, ready to do her bidding.
It was a quiet and saddened party.
Nearer and nearer came the tumult.
A slave rushed into the dining hall to cry that a great concourse of people was swarming through the palace gates.
A second burst upon the heels of the first alternately laughing and shrieking as a madman. "Dejah Thoris is found!" he cried.
A messenger from Dejah Thoris!" I waited to hear no more.
The great windows of the dining hall overlooked the avenue leading to the main gates-they were upon the opposite side of the hall from me with the table intervening.
I did not waste time in circling the great board-with a single leap I cleared table and diners and sprang upon the balcony beyond.
Thirty feet below lay the scarlet sward of the lawn and beyond were many people crowding about a great thoat which bore a rider headed toward the palace.
I vaulted to the ground below and ran swiftly toward the advancing party. As I came near to them I saw that the figure on the thoat was Sola. "Where is the Princess of Helium?
I cried. The green girl slid from her mighty mount and ran toward me. "O my Prince!
She is gone for ever.
Even now she may be a captive upon the lesser moon.
With her was faithful Woola the hound, but none other.
We travelled very fast and very far due south until the morning of the fifth day we sighted a great fleet of battleships sailing north.
They saw us before we could seek shelter, and soon we were surrounded by a horde of black men.
That they considered the capture of the young woman important was evident from the long and earnest interview the commander of the fleet held with her when she was brought to him.
Later she was bound and placed in the compartment with Dejah Thoris and myself. "The new captive was a very beautiful girl.
She told Dejah Thoris that many years ago she had taken the voluntary pilgrimage from the court of her father, the Jeddak of Ptarth.
She was Thuvia, the Princess of Ptarth.
Evidently this seemed to him the easiest way of ridding the vessel of my presence and killing me at the same time. "But a kind fate intervened, and by a miracle I escaped with but slight bruises.
As the sun rose I saw a vast panorama of sea bottom and distant hills lying far below me.
I was upon the highest peak of a lofty range.
When I reached it I found to my delight that it belonged to Helium.
Here a thoat was procured for me-the rest you know." For many minutes none spoke.
Dejah Thoris in the clutches of the First Born!
I shuddered at the thought, but of a sudden the old fire of unconquerable self-confidence surged through me.
Already my plans were formulated.
But I shook my head. "No, my friends," I said, smiling, "I thank you, but it cannot be.
When we know that Tardos Mors and Mors Kajak are gone to return no more; if I be here, then I shall join you all to see that the people of Helium are permitted to choose fairly their next Jeddak.
Whom they choose may count upon the loyalty of my sword, nor shall I seek the honour for myself.
It was ever his way." "He will have something interesting to report to his master then," laughed Hor Vastus. "I hope he heard only our references to a new Jeddak," I said.
If he overheard our plans to rescue Dejah Thoris, it will mean civil war, for he will attempt to thwart us, and in that I will not be thwarted.
There would I turn against Tardos Mors himself, were it necessary.
If it throws all Helium into a bloody conflict, I shall go on with these plans to save my Princess.
But even now I was to be disappointed. How long I slept I do not know.
When I awoke suddenly it was to find a half-dozen powerful men upon me, a gag already in my mouth, and a moment later my arms and legs securely bound.
That any knew of this panel outside my own household, I was doubtful.
Yet the leader of the band did not hesitate a moment.
He stepped directly to the panel, touched the concealed button, and as the door swung open he stood aside while his companions entered with me.
Then he closed the panel behind him and followed us. Down through the passageways to the pits we went.
The leader rapped upon it with the hilt of his sword-three quick, sharp blows, a pause, then three more, another pause, and then two.
The people cannot save you-I alone may accomplish that.
Tardos Mors will never return to Helium.
Neither will Mors Kajak, nor Dejah Thoris. Helium must select a new Jeddak within the year.
Zat Arras would be Jeddak of Helium.
Say that you will espouse my cause.
This is the price of your freedom.
I am done." I knew it was within the scope of Zat Arras' cruel heart to destroy me, and if I were dead I could see little reason to doubt that he might easily become Jeddak of Helium.
Free, I could prosecute the search for Dejah Thoris.
Were I dead, my brave comrades might not be able to carry out our plans.
Zat Arras will permit you in due time to reflect further upon the magnanimous offer he has made you.
The guards returned. Zat Arras waved his hand in my direction. "To the pits," he said.
Four men accompanied me from the chamber, and with a radium hand-light to illumine the way, escorted me through seemingly interminable tunnels, down, ever down beneath the city of Helium. At length they halted within a fair-sized chamber.
There were rings set in the rocky walls.
To them chains were fastened, and at the ends of many of the chains were human skeletons.
One of these they kicked aside, and, unlocking the huge padlock that had held a chain about what had once been a human ankle, they snapped the iron band about my own leg.
Then they left me, taking the light with them. Utter darkness prevailed.
For a few minutes I could hear the clanking of accoutrements, but even this grew fainter and fainter, until at last the silence was as complete as the darkness.
To gain your freedom you have but to request me to advise Zat Arras that you accept the terms of his proposition." I but shook my head.
For a long time I tried to engage him in conversation upon other matters, but he would not talk, and so, at length, I desisted. For months I sought to devise methods to inform Carthoris of my whereabouts.
I had noticed that he was a handsome fellow, about the size and age of Carthoris.
Never by word or deed have you attempted to take advantage of my defenceless condition to insult or torture me.
Go thou there and select the harness which most pleases you-it shall be yours.
All I ask is that you wear it, that I may know that my wish has been realized.
Tell me that you will do it." The boy's eyes had lighted with pleasure as I spoke, and I saw him glance from his rusty trappings to the magnificence of my own.
No, it cannot be, though I thank you for the offer.
Why, if Zat Arras even dreamed that I contemplated such a thing he would have my heart cut out of me." "There can be no harm in it, my boy," I urged.
By night you may go to my palace with a note from me to Carthoris, my son.
You may read the note before you deliver it, that you may know that it contains nothing harmful to Zat Arras.
My son will be discreet, and so none but us three need know.
It is very simple, and such a harmless act that it could be condemned by no one." Again he stood silently in deep thought. "And there is a jewelled short-sword which I took from the body of a northern Jeddak.
When you get the harness, see that Carthoris gives you that also.
I could not guess what his decision might be, and for hours I sat fretting over the outcome of the matter. If he accepted a message to Carthoris it would mean to me that Carthoris still lived and was free.
If the youth returned wearing the harness and the sword, I would know that Carthoris had received my note and that he knew that I still lived.
I did not speak beyond my accustomed greeting of him.
As he placed the food upon the floor by my side he also deposited writing materials at the same time. My heart fairly bounded for joy.
I had won my point.
But it meant everything to me and to Carthoris. I laid the note open upon the floor.
Parthak picked it up and, without a word, left me. As nearly as I could estimate, I had at this time been in the pits for three hundred days.
Three hundred and thirty days had passed since my incarceration.
To think of that beautiful creature torn and rended by the cruel fangs of the hideous white apes!
It distracted my attention from the terrible thoughts that had been occupying my entire mind.
Now a new and grim determination came to me.
I would make one super-human effort to escape.
Kill my jailer by a ruse, and trust to fate to lead me to the outer world in safety. With the thought came instant action.
I threw myself upon the floor of my cell close by the wall, in a strained and distorted posture, as though I were dead after a struggle or convulsions.
Now I heard him halt before me. There was a muttered exclamation, and then a step as he came to my side.
I felt him kneel beside me.
My grip tightened upon the chain.
He leaned close to me.
I must open my eyes to find his throat, grasp it, and strike one mighty final blow all at the same instant. The thing worked just as I had planned.
A benign though tardy Providence blurred my vision and my mind as I sank into unconsciousness across the lifeless body of my only son. When I regained consciousness it was to feel a cool, firm hand pressed upon my forehead.
For an instant I did not open my eyes.
I wondered who it could be who ministered to me.
Carthoris must have had a companion whom I had not seen.
There was no one with him.
He told me that he had lain unconscious for a time-how long he did not know. "How came you here at all?
I asked, mystified that he had found me without a guide. "It was by your wit in apprising me of your existence and imprisonment through the youth, Parthak.
Until he came for his harness and his sword, we had thought you dead.
Then I commenced to question him, but he would give me no information as to your whereabouts.
Despairing, I had him removed to the pits, where he still is. "No threats of torture or death, no bribes, however fabulous, would move him.
And so I caused Hor Vastus to be harnessed in the metal of a Zodangan soldier and chained in Parthak's cell beside him.
For fifteen days the noble Hor Vastus has languished in the darkness of the pits, but not in vain.
To come to you, though, was a trifle more difficult matter.
Zat Arras' spies are everywhere.
Seven days ago all was in readiness, but we waited in the hope that by so doing your rescue might be encompassed in time for you to command the expedition.
We are a just people, and when I had told them the entire story they were as one man in agreeing that their action toward me would be guided by the action of Helium toward John Carter.
In the meantime, at their request, I was to resume my throne as Jeddak of Thark, that I might negotiate with neighboring hordes for warriors to compose the land forces of the expedition.
I have done that which I agreed.
They are ready to sail for the Land of the First Born when I give the word and fight there until I bid them stop.
All they ask is the loot they take and transportation to their own territories when the fighting and the looting are over.
I am done." "And thou, Hor Vastus," I asked, "what has been thy success?" "A million veteran fighting-men from Helium's thin waterways man the battleships, the transports, and the convoys," he replied.
Each is sworn to loyalty and secrecy, nor were enough recruited from a single district to cause suspicion." "Good!
Each has done his duty, and now, Kantos Kan, may we not repair at once to Hastor and get under way before to-morrow's sun?" "We should lose no time, Prince," replied Kantos Kan.
Already the people of Hastor are questioning the purpose of so great a fleet fully manned with fighting-men.
I wonder much that word of it has not before reached Zat Arras.
If you will, Prince, ask that a cloth and a little thoat oil be brought." I nodded to one of the soldiers, who left the chamber, returning presently with the things that Xodar had requested.
The black kneeled beside the body and, dipping a corner of the cloth in the thoat oil, rubbed for a moment on the dead face before him.
Then he turned to me with a smile, pointing to his work.
Many were the exclamations of astonishment and questioning wonder as Xodar's acts confirmed the suspicion which he had held. "A thern!" whispered Tars Tarkas. "Worse than that, I fear," replied Xodar.
Fortunate indeed it is for us that he did not escape." The officer of the guard entered the chamber at this juncture. "My Prince," he said, "I have to report that this fellow's companion escaped us.
I think that it was with the connivance of one or more of the men at the gate.
This time it was to confirm our worst fears-half the guards at the gate that night had been therns disguised as red men. "Come!
We must lose no time.
On to Hastor at once.
When Kantos Kan told me, I realized with a pang of dismay that I had misreckoned the time while I lay in the utter darkness of my cell.
Three hundred and sixty-five days had passed-it was too late to save Dejah Thoris. The expedition was no longer one of rescue but of revenge.
I did not remind Kantos Kan of the terrible fact that ere we could hope to enter the Temple of Issus, the Princess of Helium would be no more.
For so long a time has this gone on that practically every possibility of wireless communication has been exhausted and no nation dares transmit dispatches of importance in this way. Tars Tarkas reported all well with the transports.
In this formation we had progressed toward the entrance to Omean for several hours when one of our scouts returned from the front to report that the cone-like summit of the entrance was in sight.
At almost the same instant another scout from the left flank came racing toward the flagship. His very speed bespoke the importance of his information.
Kantos Kan and I awaited him upon the little forward deck which corresponds with the bridge of earthly battleships.
Your orders, Prince." "Dispatch ten battleships to guard the entrance to Omean, with orders to let no hostile enter or leave the shaft.
That will bottle up the great fleet of the First Born. "Form the balance of the battleships into a great V with the apex pointing directly south-south-east.
They formed a ragged line as far as the eye could reach in either direction and about three ships deep.
So sudden was our onslaught that they had no time to prepare for it.
It was as unexpected as lightning from a clear sky. Every phase of my plan worked splendidly.
By this time they were moving at high speed so that they presented a difficult target for the enemy.
Broadside after broadside they delivered as each vessel came in line with the ships of the therns.
Slowly we manoeuvered our circle of death until we hung above the gardens where our green warriors were engaged.
The order was passed down for them to embark.
Then they rose slowly to a position within the centre of the circle. In the meantime the therns' fire had practically ceased.
It could be nothing other than a fleet of war. Whose or whither bound, we could not even conjecture.
When they had come close enough to make us out at all, Kantos Kan's operator received a radio-aerogram, which he immediately handed to my companion.
He read the thing and handed it to me. "Kantos Kan:" it read.
They were returning at full speed, firing their stern batteries almost continuously.
There could be but one explanation.
They were being pursued by another hostile fleet.
Well, the situation could be no worse.
The expedition already was doomed.
No man that had embarked upon it would return across that dreary ice cap.
How I wished that I might face Zat Arras with my longsword for just an instant before I died!
It was he who had caused our failure. As I watched the oncoming ten I saw their pursuers race swiftly into sight.
What a series of misfortunes and disasters!
What awful fate hovered over me, that I should have been so terribly thwarted at every angle of my search for my lost love!
Could it be possible that the curse of Issus was upon me!
That there was, indeed, some malign divinity in that hideous carcass!
I would not believe it, and, throwing back my shoulders, I ran to the deck below to join my men in repelling boarders from one of the thern craft that had grappled us broadside.
In the wild lust of hand-to-hand combat my old dauntless hopefulness returned.
A signal legible to every sailor of all the fleets engaged in that fierce struggle was strung aloft upon the flagship. "Men of Helium for the Prince of Helium against all his enemies," it read.
Presently my colours broke from one of Zat Arras' ships.
Then from another and another.
The sky was black with the three enormous fleets.
It was Helium against the field now, and the fight had settled to countless individual duels.
There could be little or no manoeuvering of fleets in that crowded, fire-split sky. Zat Arras' flagship was close to my own.
I could see the thin features of the man from where I stood.
His Zodangan crew was pouring broadside after broadside into us and we were returning their fire with equal ferocity.
Closer and closer came the two vessels until but a few yards intervened.
Grapplers and boarders lined the contiguous rails of each. We were preparing for the death struggle with our hated enemy. There was but a yard between the two mighty ships as the first grappling irons were hurled.
I rushed to the deck to be with my men as they boarded.
Just as the vessels came together with a slight shock, I forced my way through the lines and was the first to spring to the deck of Zat Arras' ship.
After me poured a yelling, cheering, cursing throng of Helium's best fighting-men.
Yield and you shall have quarter." For a moment I could not tell whether he contemplated acceding to my demand or facing me with drawn sword.
For an instant he stood hesitating, and then throwing down his arms he turned and rushed to the opposite side of the deck.
Before I could overtake him he had sprung to the rail and hurled himself headforemost into the awful depths below. And thus came Zat Arras, Jed of Zodanga, to his end. On and on went that strange battle.
The therns and blacks had not combined against us.
Wherever thern ship met ship of the First Born was a battle royal, and in this I thought I saw our salvation.
Carthoris and I, with Kantos Kan, took the remaining ships and headed for the entrance to Omean. Our plan now was to attempt to make a combined assault upon Issus at dawn of the following day.
In fact, four hundred of my fleet of five hundred rested safely upon the bosom of Omean before the first shot was fired.
He recognized me from the three trips that I had taken with him during my captivity among the First Born. "How does it seem," I asked him, "to have the tables turned?
To be prisoner of your erstwhile captive?" He smiled, a very grim smile pregnant with hidden meaning. "It will not be for long, John Carter," he replied.
I interrupted. "Why, no," insisted Yersted.
It cannot have been upward of three hundred and seventy or eighty days." A great light burst upon me.
How stupid I had been!
I could scarcely retain an outward exhibition of my great joy.
Why had I forgotten the great difference in the length of Martian and Earthly years!
I asked. "Not that, other than as a last resort," he replied.
Hast ever heard of the Temple of the Sun?
It is there that they will put her.
It lies far within the inner court of the Temple of Issus, a little temple that raises a thin spire far above the spires and minarets of the great temple that surrounds it.
Beneath it, in the ground, there lies the main body of the temple consisting in six hundred and eighty-seven circular chambers, one below another.
I must reach the Temple of Issus secretly before the forces under Tars Tarkas assaulted at dawn.
It was Carthoris who realized the full meaning of the thing-its cause and the reason for it. "Haste!" he cried.
If we delay, we all are lost.
The pumps of Omean have been stopped.
They would drown us like rats in a trap.
We must reach the upper levels of the pits in advance of the flood or we shall never reach them.
Come." "Lead the way, Carthoris," I cried.
Entirely unaccustomed to water except in quantities sufficient for drinking and bathing purposes the red Martians instinctively shrank from it in such formidable depths and menacing activity.
As the level of the passage rose, so, too, did the waters rise until it soon became apparent to me, who brought up the rear, that they were gaining rapidly upon us.
The waters were now swirling about my waist.
The men directly before me were quickly becoming panic-stricken.
Here seems a way of escape.
The men filed rapidly past me and entered the diverging corridor which I hoped would lead to safety.
The water rose breast high.
Men stumbled, floundered, and went down.
Many I grasped and set upon their feet again, but alone the work was greater than I could cope with.
Soldiers were being swept beneath the boiling torrent, never to rise.
At length the dwar of the 10th utan took a stand beside me.
They have fired the pits ahead." "We are hemmed in by flames in front and flood behind.
What chance had I, then, to rescue Dejah Thoris were I to be compelled to fight foes who never showed themselves.
A thousand times I berated myself for being drawn into such a trap as I might have known these pits easily could be.
With my men had gone the last torch, nor was this corridor lighted by the radiance of phosphorescent rock as were those of the lower levels.
It was this fact that assured me that I was not far from the upper pits which lie directly beneath the temple. Finally I felt the lapping waters about my feet.
The smoke was thick behind me.
Could I be mistaken? I felt around.
No, I had come to the main corridor, and still there was a breathing space between the surface of the water and the rocky ceiling above.
And then I turned up the main corridor in the direction that Carthoris and the head of the column had passed a half-hour before.
The worst, then, had come to me.
I had reached one of those rare places where a Martian tunnel dips suddenly to a lower level.
Filling my lungs with air, I dived beneath the surface and swam through the inky, icy blackness on and on along the submerged gallery.
Time and time again I rose with upstretched hand, only to feel the disappointing rocks close above me. Not for much longer would my lungs withstand the strain upon them.
I felt that I must soon succumb, nor was there any retreating now that I had gone this far.
I knew positively that I could never endure to retrace my path now to the point from which I had felt the waters close above my head.
Death stared me in the face, nor ever can I recall a time that I so distinctly felt the icy breath from his dead lips upon my brow. One more frantic effort I made with my fast ebbing strength.
It was at the right side of the corridor, which ran on, probably, to other entrances to the pile above. To me one point was as good as another.
What knew I where any of them led!
Although not yet dawn, the room was brilliantly lighted.
Its sole occupant lay prone upon a low couch at the further side, apparently in sleep.
From the hangings and sumptuous furniture of the room I judged it to be a living-room of some priestess, possibly of Issus herself. At the thought the blood tingled through my veins.
What, indeed, if fortune had been kind enough to place the hideous creature alone and unguarded in my hands.
With her as hostage I could force acquiescence to my every demand.
Cautiously I approached the recumbent figure, on noiseless feet.
And now that you have come, scarce can I believe it.
For an hour I have heard the sounds of conflict within the palace.
It must have been he whose men you have heard battling within the precincts of the temple. "Where is Issus?
I asked suddenly. Dejah Thoris shrugged her shoulders. "She sent me under guard to this room just before the fighting began within the temple halls.
She said that she would send for me later.
She seemed very angry and somewhat fearful.
Never have I seen her act in so uncertain and almost terrified a manner.
Why not secrete her there until I could return and fetch her away in safety and for ever from this awful place.
I explained my plan to her. For a moment she clung more closely to me. "I cannot bear to be parted from you now, even for a moment, John Carter," she said.
I shudder at the thought of being alone again where that terrible creature might discover me.
You do not know her.
None can imagine her ferocious cruelty who has not witnessed her daily acts for over half a year.
Our son is there, and the soldiers of Helium, fighting for the Princess of Helium.
Where they are you should be.
I must not think of myself now, but of them and of my husband's duty.
I may not stand in the way of that.
Hide me in the pits, and go." I led her to the door through which I had entered the chamber from below.
Scarce half a dozen chambers had I traversed before I came upon the theatre of a fierce struggle.
And then I rained cut after cut upon the surprised warriors, while the reds without took heart at the sound of my voice, and with shouts of "John Carter!
Five hundred men fought there that day, the black men against the red.
No man asked quarter or gave it.
It was a battle between the old and the new, but not for once did I question the outcome of it.
As we swung toward the great windows which overlooked the gardens of Issus a sight met my gaze which sent a wave of exultation over me. "Look!
Then it was that we interpreted his command.
Twenty yards now separated the green men from the black line.
Another word from the great Thark, and with a wild and terrifying battle-cry the green warriors charged.
For a moment the black line held, but only for a moment-then the fearsome beasts that bore equally terrible riders passed completely through it. After them came utan upon utan of red men.
The green horde broke to surround the temple.
The red men charged for the interior, and then we turned to continue our interrupted battle; but our foes had vanished. My first thought was of Dejah Thoris.
Calling to Carthoris that I had found his mother, I started on a run toward the chamber where I had left her, with my boy close beside me.
After us came those of our little force who had survived the bloody conflict. The moment I entered the room I saw that some one had been there since I had left.
A silk lay upon the floor.
It had not been there before. There were also a dagger and several metal ornaments strewn about as though torn from their wearer in a struggle.
But worst of all, the door leading to the pits where I had hidden my Princess was ajar. With a bound I was before it, and, thrusting it open, rushed within. Dejah Thoris had vanished.
I called her name aloud again and again, but there was no response.
I think in that instant I hovered upon the verge of insanity.
I do not recall what I said or did, but I know that for an instant I was seized with the rage of a maniac. "Issus!
Search the temple for her, but let no man harm her but John Carter.
Carthoris, where are the apartments of Issus?" "This way," cried the boy, and, without waiting to know that I had heard him, he dashed off at breakneck speed, further into the bowels of the temple.
As fast as he went, however, I was still beside him, urging him on to greater speed. At last we came to a great carved door, and through this Carthoris dashed, a foot ahead of me.
With a single cut I struck down two in the front rank.
But this time I was not to be outwitted by any such petty subterfuge.
The first black foot that is planted upon this platform sends my dagger into Issus' heart." For an instant they hesitated.
I cried to the thing within my hands. For a moment her eyes roved wildly about the scene beneath her.
I think that it took a moment for the true condition to make any impression upon her-she could not at first realize that the temple had fallen before the assault of men of the outer world.
Issus, thy people depend upon thee.
Daughter of the Lesser Moon, thou only art all-powerful.
Thou only canst save thy people.
Strike!" And then it was that she went mad.
A screaming, gibbering maniac writhed in my grasp.
It bit and clawed and scratched in impotent fury. And then it laughed a weird and terrible laughter that froze the blood. The slave girls upon the dais shrieked and cowered away.
And the thing jumped at them and gnashed its teeth and then spat upon them from frothing lips.
God, but it was a horrid sight. Finally, I shook the thing, hoping to recall it for a moment to rationality. "Where is Dejah Thoris?
I cried again. The awful creature in my grasp mumbled inarticulately for a moment, then a sudden gleam of cunning shot into those hideous, close-set eyes. "Dejah Thoris?
Dejah Thoris?" and then that shrill, unearthly laugh pierced our ears once more. "Yes, Dejah Thoris-I know.
And Thuvia, and Phaidor, daughter of Matai Shang.
They each love John Carter.
Ha-ah! but it is droll.
Together for a year they will meditate within the Temple of the Sun, but ere the year is quite gone there will be no more food for them.
Ho-oh! what divine entertainment," and she licked the froth from her cruel lips. "There will be no more food-except each other.
Ha-ah!" The horror of the suggestion nearly paralysed me.
To this awful fate the creature within my power had condemned my Princess.
I trembled in the ferocity of my rage.
As a terrier shakes a rat I shook Issus, Goddess of Life Eternal. "Countermand your orders!
Haste, or you die!" "It is too late.
Ha-ah!" and then she commenced her gibbering and shrieking again. Almost of its own volition, my dagger flew up above that putrid heart. But something stayed my hand, and I am now glad that it did.
It were a terrible thing to have struck down a woman with one's own hand.
But a fitter fate occurred to me for this false deity. "First Born," I cried, turning to those who stood within the chamber, "you have seen to-day the impotency of Issus-the gods are impotent. Issus is no god.
She is a cruel and wicked old woman, who has deceived and played upon you for ages.
In a thousand places it is burning now.
I cried to those who had accompanied me.
The way! Xodar; point the way and leave me.
I shall reach my Princess yet." "Follow me, John Carter," replied Xodar, and without waiting for my reply he dashed down into the tunnel at our feet.
When she saw me she rushed toward the bars that separated us.
Already the chamber had turned upon its slow way so far that but a portion of the opening in the temple wall was opposite the barred end of the corridor. Slowly the interval was closing.
Can no power stop this awful revolving thing?
Is there none who holds the secret of these terrible bars?" "None, I fear, whom we could fetch in time, though I shall go and make the attempt.
Not so the daughter of Matai Shang. "John Carter," she said, "this be the last time that you shall see any of us.
Tell me that you love me, that I may die happy." "I love only the Princess of Helium," I replied quietly.
I am sorry, Phaidor, but it is as I have told you from the beginning." She bit her lip and turned away, but not before I saw the black and ugly scowl she turned upon Dejah Thoris.
Thereafter she stood a little way apart, but not so far as I should have desired, for I had many little confidences to impart to my long-lost love. For a few minutes we stood thus talking in low tones.
Ever smaller and smaller grew the opening.
In a short time now it would be too small even to permit the slender form of my Princess to pass.
Oh, why did not Xodar haste.
Above we could hear the faint echoes of a great tumult.
It was the multitude of black and red and green men fighting their way through the fire from the burning Temple of Issus. A draught from above brought the fumes of smoke to our nostrils.
As we stood waiting for Xodar the smoke became thicker and thicker.
There was Carthoris, and Kantos Kan, and Hor Vastus, and Xodar, with a few more who had followed me to the temple court. "There is no hope, John Carter," cried Xodar.
The keeper of the keys is dead and his keys are not upon his carcass.
Our only hope is to quench this conflagration and trust to fate that a year will find your Princess alive and well.
I shall remain here beside my Princess until a merciful death releases me from my anguish.
I care not to live." As I spoke Xodar had been tossing a great number of tiny cans within the prison cell.
The remaining crack was not over an inch in width a moment later.
As my eyes met hers she spoke. "Think not, John Carter, that you may so lightly cast aside the love of Phaidor, daughter of Matai Shang.
Nor ever hope to hold thy Dejah Thoris in thy arms again.
Wait you the long, long year; but know that when the waiting is over it shall be Phaidor's arms which shall welcome you-not those of the Princess of Helium.
Behold, she dies!" And as she finished speaking I saw her raise a dagger on high, and then I saw another figure.
As the dagger fell toward the unprotected breast of my love, Thuvia was almost between them.
A blinding gust of smoke blotted out the tragedy within that fearsome cell-a shriek rang out, a single shriek, as the dagger fell. The smoke cleared away, but we stood gazing upon a blank wall.
The last crevice had closed, and for a long year that hideous chamber would retain its secret from the eyes of men. They urged me to leave. "In a moment it will be too late," cried Xodar.
There is, in fact, but a bare chance that we can come through to the outer garden alive even now.
I have ordered the pumps started, and in five minutes the pits will be flooded.
If we would not drown like rats in a trap we must hasten above and make a dash for safety through the burning temple." "Go," I urged them.
Let me die here beside my Princess-there is no hope or happiness elsewhere for me.
When they carry her dear body from that terrible place a year hence let them find the body of her lord awaiting her." Of what happened after that I have only a confused recollection.
It seems as though I struggled with many men, and then that I was picked bodily from the ground and borne away.
I have never asked, nor has any other who was there that day intruded on my sorrow or recalled to my mind the occurrences which they know could but at best reopen the terrible wound within my heart. Ah!
If I could but know one thing, what a burden of suspense would be lifted from my shoulders!
But whether the assassin's dagger reached one fair bosom or another, only time will divulge. *** x-header ***
The dawn of amateur radio in the U.K. and Greece: a personal view Norman F.
Joly. COPYRIGHT 1990 London : Joly, 1990. - 151p. - 0-9515628-0-0 C O N T E N T S 0.
GLOSSARY FOR NON-TECHNICAL READERS Prologue Thales of Miletus. Thales, who was born in 640 B.C., was a man of exceptional wisdom and one of the Seven Sages of Ancient Greece.
He was the father of Greek, and consequently of European philosophy and science.
His speculations embraced a wide range of subjects relating to political as well as to celestial matters.
An electric current cannot be seen.
In fact it does not exist outside the wires and other conductors which carry it.
A live wire carrying a current looks exactly the same and weighs exactly the same as it does when it is not carrying a current.
An electric current is simply a movement or flow of electrons. Benjamin Franklin, the American statesman and scientist born in Boston in 1706, investigated the nature of thunder and lightning by flying a child's kite during a thunderstorm.
He had attached a metal spike to the kite, and at the other end of the string to which the kite was tied he secured a key.
As the rain soaked into the string, electricity flowed freely down the string and Franklin was able to draw large sparks from the key.
Of course this could have been very dangerous, but he had foreseen it and had supported the string through an insulator.
Remembering Thales of old he coined the word 'electricity'. Otto von Guericke (1602-1686) a Mayor of Magdeburg in Germany, was an amateur scientist who had constructed all manner of gadgets.
One of them was a machine consisting of two glass discs revolving in opposite directions which produced high voltage charges through friction.
Ramsden and Wimshurst built improved versions of the machine. A significant breakthrough occurred when Alessandro Volta (1745-1827) in Italy constructed a simple electric cell (in 1799) which produced a flow of electrons by chemical means.
But Volta never found the right explanation of why his cell was working.
He thought the flow of electric current was due to the contact between the two metals, whereas in fact it results from the chemical action of the electrolyte on the zinc plate.
Like many others he was looking for a connection between the age-old study of magnetism and electricity, but now he was able to pass electric currents through wires and place magnets in various positions near the wires.
Oersted suggested to his assistant that he might try holding the wire parallel to the length of the needle (north-south) and hey presto, the needle was deflected!
If an electric current is passed through water it is broken down into the two elements of which it is composed--hydrogen and oxygen.
The process is used extensively in modern industry for electroplating.
He also established the laws of the process itself.
He had constructed powerful electromagnets consisting of coils of wire.
This completes one cycle or sine wave. (1Hz in S.I.units). In recent years other methods have been developed for generating electrical power in relatively small quantities for special applications.
Semiconductors, which combine heat insulation with good electrical conduction, are used for thermoelectric generators to power isolated weather stations, artificial satellites, undersea cables and marker buoys.
It was Davy who first demonstrated that electricity could be used to produce light.
He connected two carbon rods to a heavy duty storage battery. When he touched the tips of the rods together a very bright white light was produced.
As he drew the rods apart, the arc light persisted until the tips had burnt away to the critical gap which extinguished the light.
These used the power of the falling water to drive hydraulic turbines which were coupled to the dynamos.
But Edison's D.C. generators could not in themselves, have achieved the spectacular progress that has been made.
All over the world we depend totally on a system of transmitting mains electricity over long distances which was originally created by an amazing inventor whose scientific discoveries changed, and are still changing, the whole world.
His name was scarcely known to the general public, especially in Europe, where he was born. Who was this unknown pioneer?
Some people reckon that it was this astonishing visionary who invented wireless, remote control, robotics and a form of X-ray photography using high frequency radio waves.
A patent which he took out in the U.S.A. in 1890 ultimately led to the design of the humble ignition coil which energises billions and billions of spark plugs in all the motor cars of the world.
His American patents fill a book two inches thick.
His name was Nicola Tesla (1856-1943). Nicola Tesla was born in a small village in Croatia which at that time formed part of the great Austro-Hungarian Empire.
Today it is a northern province of Yugoslavia, a state created after the 1914-1918 war.
Tesla studied at the Graz Technical University and later in Budapest.
Early in his studies he had the idea that a way had to be found to run electric motors directly from A.C. generators.
His professor in Graz had assured him categorically that this was not possible.
But young Tesla was not convinced.
He picked up a twig and began to scratch a drawing on the soil in front of him.
He drew four coils arranged symmetrically round the circumference of a circle.
In the centre he drew a rotor or armature.
As each coil in turn was energised it attracted the rotor towards it and the rotary motion was established.
When he constructed the first practical models he used eight, sixteen and even more coils.
The simple drawing on the ground led to the design of the first induction motor driven directly by A.C.electricity. Tesla emigrated to the U.S.A. in 1884.
During the first year he filed no less than 30 patents mostly in relation to the generation and distribution of A.C. mains electricity.
He designed and built his 'A.C.
Polyphase System' which generated three-phase alternating current at 25 Hz.
Their generating station was put into service in 1895 and was called the Niagara Falls Electricity Generating Company.
Edison, who was still generating D.C., claimed A.C. was dangerous and to prove it contracted with the government to produce the first electric chair using A.C. for the execution of murderers condemned to death.
When it was first used it was a ghastly flop.
The condemned man moaned and groaned and foamed at the mouth.
After four minutes of repeated application of the A.C.voltage smoke began to come out of his back. It was obvious that the victim had suffered a horribly drawn-out death. Tesla said he could prove that A.C. was not dangerous.
He gave a demonstration of high voltage electricity flowing harmlessly over his body.
His workshop was lit by this method.
He put the small boat in a lake in Madison Square Gardens in New York.
Standing on the shore with a control box, he invited onlookers to suggest movements.
He was able to make the boat go forwards and backwards and round in circles.
These frequencies are at present used by the military for communicating with submarines submerged in the oceans of the world. Tesla's career and private life have remained something of a mystery.
He lived alone and shunned public life.
He never read any of his papers before academic institutions, though he was friendly with some journalists who wrote sensational stories about him.
They said he was terrified of microbes and that when he ate out at a restaurant he would ask for a number of clean napkins to wipe the cutlery and the glasses he drank out of.
For the last 20 years of his life until he died during World War II in 1943 he lived the life of a semi-recluse, with a pigeon as his only companion.
A disastrous fire had destroyed his workshops and many of his experimental models and all his papers were lost for ever. Tesla had moved to Colorado Springs where he built his largest ever coil which was 52 feet in diameter.
However, James Clerk Maxwell (1831-1879), Professor of Experimental Physics at Cambridge then came up with something entirely new.
By some elegant mathematics he had shown the probable existence of electromagnetic waves of radiation.
But it was twenty four years later (eight years after Maxwell's death) that Heinrich Hertz (1857-1894) in Germany gave a practical demonstration of the accuracy of this theory.
He generated and detected electromagnetic waves across the length of his laboratory on a wavelength of approximately one metre.
His own photograph of the equipment he had set up can be seen in the Deutsches Museum in Munich. To detect the electromagnetic waves Hertz employed a simple form of oscillator, which he termed a resonator.
But it was not sensitive enough to detect waves at any great distance.
Before wireless telegraphy could become practicable, a more delicate detector was necessary. Credit is due to Edouard Branly (1844-1940) of France for producing the first practical instrument for detecting Hertzian waves, the coherer.
It consisted of two metal cylinders with leads attached, fitted tightly into the interior of a glass tube containing iron or steel filings.
The instant an electric discharge of any sort occurred the coherer became conductive, and if it was tapped lightly its conducting property was immediately destroyed.
He suggested that such discharges could possibly be used for signaling over long distances.
It was Guglielmo Marconi (1874-1937), the son of a well-to-do landowner who lived in Bologna, and who was married to Annie Jameson of the well known Irish Whiskey family.
Guglielmo, their second son, had his early education at a private school in Bedford, England, and later at Livorno and Florence in Italy.
When he read about the experiments of Heinrich Hertz and about Popov's suggestion, he saw the possibility of using these waves as a means of signaling. His first transmitter, shown in the accompanying photograph, did not radiate very far.
When he folded the metal plate into a cylinder and placed it on a pole 30 feet above the induction coil and connected to it by a vertical wire, he was able to detect the radiation nearly two kilometres away.
Not only did they finance his early experiments but they also put him in touch with the right sort of people.
One of these was Alan A.
Campbell Swinton who became the first President of the Radio Society of London (now the R.S.G.B.) many years later, in 1913.
Campbell Swinton introduced the young Italian to William Preece, then Engineer-in-Chief of the British Post Office. Preece had already been investigating various methods of 'induction' telegraphy. In a book entitled Wireless Telegraphy published in 1908, William J.
The possibilities of Mr Marconi's system were at once recognised by Mr William Preece.
In it he stated that "electrical action can be transmitted through the earth, air or water, by means of oscillations of high frequency.
In the first public demonstration of his equipment Marconi spanned the 365 metres between the G.P.O. and Victoria street.
Later, on Salisbury Plain, in March 1897, his signals were detected over 7 kilometres away.
On the 11th & 18th May 1897 messages were first exchanged over water.
On the 27th of March 1899, during naval manoeuvres, Marconi bridged the English Channel for the first time, a distance of about 140 kilometres.
To produce the oscillations he employed the oscillator designed by Augusto Righi.
Depressing the key closed the circuit and brought the inductor coil into action.
But the energy occupied a very large bandwidth and the receivers of that period could not separate two transmissions.
White of the Post Office wrote in 1908, "The chief objection which has been raised against modern wireless telegraphy is its want of secrecy.
With a transmitter sending out waves in all directions, it is possible for unscrupulous persons to receive the messages and make an improper use of them. This form of 'scientific hooliganism' has, in fact, become somewhat notorious.
Marconi and his assistants ultimately solved the problem by modifying Lodge's syntonic Leyden jar tuned circuit.
They added a tapped inductance in the aerial circuit of the transmitter and used variable capacitors instead of fixed ones.
Again in the U.S.A., Professor R.O.Fessenden was responsible for the design of new types of transmitting and receiving apparatus. During this period Marconi had resisted all offers by financiers to acquire his patents.
Kemp was destined to become his right-hand man and served Marconi faithfully throughout his life.
By today's standards, Marconi can be said to have been a highly successful entrepreneur.
He had the great knack of selecting the right man for the job, and inspired deep loyalty in his staff.
Many of them were later granted licences for the use of "Wireless Telegraphy for experimental purposes" (in the United Kingdom) by the Postmaster General under the terms of the 1904 Wireless Telegraphy Act.
Had it not been for amateurs, wireless telegraphy as a great world-fact might not have existed at all.
In fact we may say that wireless telegraphy itself in its inception was an amateur product.
Numerous important inventions such as the crystal detector, the oscillating valve, the triode valve--have been due to private or amateur work.
If full opportunities for such non-official research work are not restored, the progress of the art of radio telegraphy and radio telephony will be greatly hindered." Professor W.H.
Eccles wrote: "Improvements and invention must be stimulated to the utmost.
Transmissions by amateurs in the United Kingdom and the U.S.A. on the other hand were made around 200 metres (1.5MHz).
In the U.S.A. amateurs were permitted to use a D.C.input of 1,000 watts to the anode of the final stage of their transmitters.
In the U.K. the maximum power allowed was 10 watts and the combined height and length of the transmitting aerial was not to exceed 100 feet.
Although about 200 European stations had indicated their intention to listen only 30 actually submitted logs.
We would bet our new Spring hat that if a good U.S. amateur with such a set and an Armstrong superheterodyne could be sent to England, reception of the U.S. transmissions would straightaway become commonplace.
Strong language. In September of the same year it was announced that a prominent U.S. amateur Paul Godley 2ZE would be going to Europe to take part in the second series of tests planned for December.
His expenses were being paid by the A.R.R.L. which already boasted having 15,000 transmitting members.
In the U.S.A. distances of over 2,000 miles had already been achieved. During his brief stay of a few hours in London Paul Godley was introduced to Senator Marconi, to Admiral of the Fleet Sir Henry Jackson, to Alan A.
He therefore obtained permission to set up the European receiving station at Ardrossan a coast town near Glasgow, Scotland.
The actual site was a large field heavily covered with seaweed.
He was assisted in the erection of his receiving antenna by a member of the Marconi International Marine Communications Company.
1,300 feet of phosphor-bronze wire was stretched 12 feet above the ground on ten poles spaced equally along the full length of the wire which was earthed at the far end through a non-inductive resistor.
This was the first Beverage type receiving array ever erected in the United Kingdom.
Before the actual tests took place the length of the wire was reduced to 850 feet. At 00.50 GMT on December 9th 1921 Godley identified signals from 1BCG located at Greenwich, Connecticut.
The station there was manned by six members of the Radio Club of America.
One of the operators was E.
The message read: No.1 de 1BCG.
SIGNED BURGHARD INMAN GRINAN ARMSTRONG AMY CRONKHITE. Eight British amateurs had also copied the message correctly.
One of them was W.E.
Bill" Corsham 2UV of Willesden, London who was later credited by the R.S.G.B. and the A.R.R.L. as being the inventor of the QSL card.
After a visit to the U.S.A.
Deloy was able to improve his equipment and on November 27th 1923 he contacted Fred Schnell 1MO of West Hartford, Connecticut for the first ever 2-way QSO across the Atlantic.
They used the "useless" wavelengths around 100 metres. INTERNATIONAL DX had come to stay. CHAPTER FIVE THE FIRST GREEK RADIO AMATEURS As no licences were issued for many years there are no official records to be consulted.
Early activity was mainly in and around Athens but there may have been one or two stations in other parts of the country which we never heard in the capital.
It will be ages," he said, "before the Greek State officially recognizes the very existence of radio amateurs and begins to issue transmitting licences to them.
The recipients of these three licences were Costas 'Bill' Tavaniotis SV1KE, Aghis Cazazis SV1CA and Nikos Katselis SV1NK.
As there were no relevant regulations the choice of callsign was left to the individual operators.
For instance, Tavaniotis ran his own electrical and electronic business called KONSTAV ELECTRIC so he decided to use "KE" as his callsign. As far as I know the following ten amateurs were active in the Athens area in 1937: 1.
Bill' Tavaniotis..................SV1KE (silent key) 3.
Polycarpos Psomiadis..............SV1AZ (now N2DOE) 4.
Aghis Cazazis......................SV1CA (silent key) 5.
Nikos Katselis.....................SV1NK (silent key) 6.
George Zarifis...............SV1SP/SV6SP (now SV1AA) 7.
Nasos Coucoulis....................SV1SM (silent key) 8.
George Yiapapas....................SV1GY (now QRT) 9.
Norman Joly........................SV1RX (now G3FNJ) In 1952 Costas Karayiannis who ran a big business called RADIO KARAYIANNI published an amazingly comprehensive book entitled ELLINIKI RADIOFONIA which means 'Greek Broadcasting'.
It contained a vast treasure of information on many subjects allied to broadcasting, and there was a page entitled DAWN (1930-1940) which dealt with amateur radio activity in Greece before World War II.
It confirmed most of the names listed above as can be seen in the photo-copy of the original Greek text, and it mentioned three others: George Gerardos SV1AG, (silent key), S.
In my view they were certainly not pirates.
His transmitter consisted of a single metal 6L6 crystal oscillator with an input of about 7 watts.
For reception he used an American CASE broadcast receiver in which he had fitted a BFO.
In a very short period he had about 500 QSOs. Forty four years later some of the younger generation of operators who had not heard of this early activity from Crete allocated the prefix SV9 to the island.
In 1921 when he was in the 4th form at school he had bought two kits of parts from France and put them together with the help of his fellow-student George Grabinger.
The kit consisted of a bright emitter triode in an oscillating circuit.
The heater supply was a 4 volt accumulator, and a dozen or so dry cells, with an earphone in series, supplied the anode voltage.
The tuned circuit consisted of a coil with a small pressure operated capacitor across it.
A carbon microphone with a dry cell in series was connected to two or three turns of wire wound over the coil.
The assembled kits were tested close to each other and they worked.
Later, when they had connected random length wire antennas to the circuits the two schoolboys were able to talk to each other across the 400 metres which separated their homes.
Canada and Australia declared war on Germany the next day.
His father had decided to buy a domestic radio receiver. "Of course in 1935 Athens had no broadcasting service," Socrates said, "so the receiver had to be able to tune in to the short wave broadcasting bands.
As we already had a Westinghouse refrigerator my father decided we should try one of their receivers.
When I say 'try' I must explain that it was the usual thing to ask a number of agents to submit their latest models for comparison at one's home.
But I remember the Dutch station PCJ run by the Philips company in Eindhoven.
The announcer was Edward Startz who spoke perfect English and about a dozen other languages.
It was entitled THE RADIO AMATEUR'S HANDBOOK published by the A.R.R.L.
I had no idea what the initials stood for.
The price was astronomical for my pocket but after a little coercion I got my father to buy it for me.
When I began to read it I discovered the existence of radio amateurs.
It was the 1939 edition and I found a circuit for a receiver which looked simple enough for me to try.
It was described as a regenerative detector and audio amplifier. "At that time the best place to buy components in Athens was at a store called Radio Karayianni, but three others shops also stocked valves (tubes) and components.
One was the Electron run by George Spanos, who was the agent for the Dutch Philips company.
Then there was a shop in a basement next door, Konstav Electric, owned by 'Bill' Tavaniotis SV1KE.
A wide range of components were also stocked by the Raytheon agent, Nick Katselis SV1NK. "I obtained some plug-in forms and wound the coils carefully according to the instructions but unfortunately the receiver didn't work very well, if at all.
The Russians did not send a mission. "Owing to my knowledge of English I was employed by the American mission to act as interpreter.
One day when I was off duty I was taken by a friend to a signals unit where there were many pieces of equipment which had been 'liberated', and I was able to buy a BC 342 receiver.
The American Mission had set up their short wave transmitters on the same site and later Interpol installed their own equipment as well.
Liverios was always on night shift because he attended the University during the day.
I still don't know how he ever managed to get any sleep.
When things were quiet he would 'borrow' a 5 Kw transmitter and tune it in the 20 metre band.
Using a callsign of his own choice (probably a different one every night) he would have contacts with the whole world.
On his invitation I went there at midnight one night and stayed until the morning.
This was a photograph of the shack of Mikes Psalidas SV1AF.
Of course, it was nothing of the sort.
The equipment they had seized belonged to five radio amateurs, George Gerardos SV1AG, Mikes Psalidas SV1AF, Nasos Coucoulis SV1AC, Aghis Cazazis SV1CA and Sotiris Stefanou who didn't have a callsign yet.
In fact Mikes Psalidas was not even at home at the time of the police raid, as he was in a military camp in the outskirts of Athens, doing his compulsory military service.
The newspapers described in detail what had been found.
These were SV1AG's little collection of QSL cards. Stefanos Eleftheriou of the Ministry immediately took up the matter.
Firstly, he pointed out to the Piraeus police that Athens did not come under their jurisdiction, and they had no right to arrest anybody there without a warrant.
This was to prevent the public from learning how ludicrous had been the accusations, and how completely unjustified the arrests had been.
But one newspaper came out the following day with a banner headline "THE OWNERS OF THE WIRELESS AND RADAR EQUIPMENT ALL TURNED OUT TO BE STAUNCH ROYALISTS!
Most of these operators subsequently obtained licences and had to change to the official series.
This order authorised the installation of a 50 watt transmitter to an applicant under certain strict limitations, one of which was that the station could only be operated from 06.00 to 08.00 hours and from 13.00 to midnight.
I had also assembled a double conversion receiver using a Geloso front end.
This was typical of the equipment used in Greece and Italy in the early 1960s. "Licences continued to be issued until 1967 when the Junta Colonels Papadopoulos and Patakos established the military dictatorship.
We were all ordered to seal our equipment and obtain written confirmation from the nearest Police authority that the disablement had been carried out. "Six months later, in December of 1967 we started getting our licences back.
Unsuccessful attempts had been made before the war. "In 1965 when George Papandreou was Prime Minister, on the very day when the Draft Bill was going to be put before Parliament the government resigned and another 10 years went by.
For instance, I refer to the very restricted frequencies we were allocated in the 80-metre band, 3.500 to 3.600 MHz.
Obviously when we began transmitting SSB telephony below 3.600 we were greeted with angry protestations from the CW operators there.
And what was worse, the voices of Greek amateurs were not heard in the DX portion of the phone allocation from 3.750 to 3.800 MHz. "Unfortunately, there was another and more serious snag.
The last paragraph of the Law said that it would come into force only after publication in the Government Gazette of regulations clarifying certain details and procedures.
So we were back to square one. "But this did not prevent the General Staff of the military dictatorship from continuing to issue new licences under the special restrictions they had laid down.
His motives were rather dubious, one of them being that he objected to a regulation which required an applicant for a licence to produce a declaration signed by the President and the Secretary of Radio Amateur Association of Greece.
Psiloyiannis, who had contacts with the military authorities (both his father and brother were officers) declared "I will form my own association and issue declarations myself.
General George Zarifis (retired) SV1AA. As recorded in detail in chapter 5, George was undoubtedly the first Greek amateur to have two-way contacts using radio telephony, way back in 1921.
He was also the first amateur to operate from the island of Crete in 1938. 2.
This is 15,000 kilometres more than the short path between the two stations, over which there was absolutely no propagation at that moment in time. A simple 5 element Yagi and a power of 100 watts was used at SZ2DH.
The contact was on CW but the signals were so strong that it might well have been on SSB.
So towards the end of 1977 SV1AB and SV1DH began looking for colleagues in suitable geographic locations with the appropriate equipment and the time and inclination to engage in tests which could go on for months and months on end.
Very soon the following stations agreed to participate in the tests.
The northern group included SV1AB, SV1DH, 5B4WR and 5B4AZ.
Within a few days ZS6DN had QSOs with SV1DH and SV1AB.
Of course they are not falling stars at all--they are meteorites which burn up when they hit the earth's atmosphere, leaving the trail that we see.
We take advantage of this phenomenon for bouncing our signals off the trail but unfortunately it is a very short-lived event.
Once when there were a lot of meteorites I was able to maintain contact with LX1SI of Luxembourg for a whole three minutes on SSB.
It was during the period of the Persides which usually occur for a week in August when the earth's orbit takes it through this cloud of space debris.
Millions of meteorites can be as small as a grain of sand and of course leave no visible trail when they strike the earth's atmosphere.
The earth goes through other major clusters in April and in December.
The phenomenon can also affect signals on lower frequencies.
I have been having contacts by this method for about 18 years now even before the advent of SSB on two metres.
I have had contacts with England and with Moscow to the north-east of Athens.
This type of propagation occurs during certain special meteorological conditions, like high barometric pressure and extreme heat.
I was hoping to make some Moonbounce contacts, but at that time it was very difficult to construct low noise preamplifiers.
After many days and hours of trying I managed a single brief contact with F8DO in France.
But it was many years later, using a low noise GASFET preamplifier.
One of the assistants at the station told the American that he knew an amateur who could pick up signals from satellites, meaning me.
The American, who happened to be an amateur himself, immediately asked to see me.
When he saw my 8 antenna array he suggested we should use it to try and pick up the University satellite.
I pointed out to him that my array was for 144 MHz whereas the satellite beacon was transmitting on 136 MHz.
He gave me the coordinates for the next pass and I rotated and raised my array in anticipation.
When the exact time arrived my modest receiver picked up the satellite beacon loud and clear.
The American got so excited he asked me if he could use my telephone to call the University in the U.S.A.
He told them the satellite had been heard at last in Athens, and by an amateur no less.
Later I received a letter from NASA thanking me for the assistance I had given.
I remember asking ZS6LN why we should not receive South African stations on 2 metres when we could hear them so well on 50 MHz.
He had replied that the two frequencies behaved in a very different manner, but there was no harm in trying.
The date was April 12th 1978 at 18.00 G.M.T. Ten months later I heard ZS6DN's automatic beacon with a colossal signal, but he was not at home!
I went to 20 metres and put out a frantic CQ for any station in South Africa but got no reply.
He was told that ZS6DN had gone out but would be back soon.
I was terrified that the opening would not last long enough.
But in a few minutes I heard him calling me slowly on CW and we exchanged reports at 17.20 G.M.T on February 16th 1979.
This was a new world record for the longest distance on 2 metres. "Three days earlier, however, when I was not at home, Costas SV1DH had established the first TEP contact between Greece and South Africa when he contacted ZS6DN.
As you know, my location is a mere 10 kilometres north of SV1DH's.
On several occasions we tried SSB but there was so much distortion that not a single word could be identified.
TEP has a lot of flutter and fading and as you can hear on the tapes even the morse comes through like a breathing noise, not a clear tone.
This applies to contacts between Greece and South Africa.
Contacts between Japan and Australia where the distances involved are smaller, have been made on SSB." Norman: "What about cycle 22?" George: "see how things go.
If anything is achieved it should be in 1990 or later.
With modern equipment we shall be able to hear signals that were buried in the noise in 1979." 4.
Dr Spyros Tsaltas SV1AT & George Delikaris SV1AM. (Mobile). The first two licensed amateurs to make contact on 2 metres in Greece were Dr Spyros Tsaltas SV1AT and George Delikaris SV1AM.
They had put together the famous Heathkit 'TWOER'.
Crystals were plentiful on the surplus market, but it was not easy to find two of the same frequency.
SV1AT transmitted on 144.720 and SV1AM on 145.135 MHz.
He suggested to the Committee that the Club should apply for a temporary licence to be granted to SV1AM enabling him to transmit from his vehicle while in motion.
SV1AM was travelling in his car and SV1AT was at his home QTH. 5.
Costas Tzezairlidis SV4CG. (SSTV). In 1970 Costas Tzezairlidis SV4CG built a unique electro mechanical machine using two motors to achieve horizontal and vertical scanning.
He had found a motor which rotated at 960 R.P.M. which corresponds to 16 revolutions per second, the exact speed required for the horizontal scanning.
The speed of the second motor was 1 revolution per second.
The reciprocal motion was produced by a cam through an 8:1 reduction gear.
A weight attached to the microscope pulled it back to start the next line.
The microscope was focussed sharply on the drum carrying the picture to be transmitted.
Resolution was excellent. The 'microscope' consisted of a cardboard tube with a 13 cm focal length lens at one end and a Philips OAP12 photo-diode at the other with another lens in front of it.
This primitive microscope produced a picture of reasonable quality. For reception SV4CG made a converter using the long persistence P7 c.r.t.
With this set-up Costas had his first SSTV contact on 40 metres with SV1AB on February 28th 1971.
After that he had many contacts on 7 and 14 MHz as can be seen from the extract from his log. (The special commemorative prefix of SZ0 was used by all SV stations during 1971). 6.
Costas Georgiou SV1OE. (E.M.E.) Up to the end of 1988 the only Greek amateur who had positively authenticated Moonbounce contacts was Costas Georgiou SV1OE.
His very first contact was made in 1982 when he contacted VE7BQH in Canada on 2 metres.
In the ensuing four years Costas managed to work four more stations: K1WHS, SM4GVF, W5UN and KB8RQ. In 1982 Costas had been trying for three years, without success, to hear his own signal via Moonbounce.
The reason for his failure was that he was unaware of a very basic fact. "I was completely ignorant of the Doppler shift effect," Costas told me.
The frequency of received signals varies according to the position of the moon.
If it is to the East of your own location the signals return 500 to 1,000 Hz below the original transmitted frequency.
When it moves to the west of south the returning frequency is correspondingly higher.
Using a 50Hz audio filter (which is essential for Moonbounce) it is very easy to miss the weak signals.
I had no computer at the time and no Keplerian elements.
I mounted a small video camera in the centre of four 16-element Yagi antennas and rotated the elevation and azimuth motors until I could see the moon in the centre of the monitor in the shack.
Of course when the sky was overcast I was out of business.
Much later when I obtained a little Sinclair ZX80 computer life became easier. "When I made my first contact I was simultaneously in QSO with SV1AB and SV1IO on 1,296 MHz who could hear what was going on.
I remember SV1AB got very excited and began shouting 'I can hear him, I can hear him!
The QSO was with VE7BQH.
By QRP I mean outputs of half a watt or less.
The first station to start transmitting on the hour must be the one whose QTH lies to the east of the other.
You must on no account transmit for more than two minutes because at the beginning of the third minute the other station will begin transmitting the same pattern of signals.
But if he has heard you he will alter the pattern.
And you will reply RO 73 which concludes the successful contact. "There are one or two other letters that can be used.
Sending M signifies that I hear you well but can only copy 50% of your transmission, equivalent to Q3.
And the letter T signifies I hear you but cannot read you at all--Q1. "It has been found by experience that the best sending speed is 8 w.p.m.
Little did we both suspect at the time that he also would not live to see the finished project.
I asked him how far back he could remember. "Well, I can start from 1924 when I was about 15 and living in Odessa in the Soviet Union.
There was a lot of interest in wireless and two magazines were published in Russia which dealt mainly with the construction of receivers.
My interest was first aroused when a friend of mine at school proudly showed me something he had just made. It was, he told me, a variable capacitor and he was going to use it to make a radio receiver.
The contraption was enormous by today's standards and must have weighed about half a kilo.
My friend said it had a capacity of 250 micro-micro farads, which meant absolutely nothing to me at the time. "When he completed his receiver I became very interested and decided I would build one too.
But materials were hard to find and very expensive.
Two items one had to buy: valves and headphones. "I asked my friend where he had found the sheet metal to make the plates of the capacitor.
He took me to a row of small shops which had a metal-faced ledge below the shop window.
The metal was thin and seemed easy enough to remove.
We sat on the ledge for a while and when the coast was clear we tore away a section and ran like mad. Later I ruined a pair of my mother's dressmaking scissors cutting out the plates.
I used rings of some thick copper wire to space the plates but I could not drill holes in the plates for the spindle so a friend did that for me.
I used about 15 plates and to this day I have no idea what the capacity of the finished capacitor was.
So what, you may ask.
Like many others I had to travel on the roof of a goods waggon.
I took with me a loaf of bread, a piece of cheese and two hard-boiled eggs.
They were kept warm in large metal tins ready for the arrival of the train.
I learned later that only foreign establishments closed at the week-end.
So I went to look for a cheap hotel.
Looking out of the bedroom window I saw a lot of people running in one direction.
At that moment a woman brought me a towel and a small bar of soap, so I asked her what was going on outside.
She said the butcher near the hotel had just received some liver.
Would she buy me some I said.
I gave her some money and she returned nearly two hours later with the liver wrapped in newspaper.
When I opened it I saw it was horse liver cooked with corn and it had an awful sour smell.
I just could not face it, although I was starving by now." I asked Takis about the shops in Moscow.
He said he had found several shops with parts and some made-up receivers in the State owned shops.
He learned later that these receivers were made by amateurs because the factories only made equipment for the armed forces.
He bought a triode valve called 'MICRO' and was told it had an amplification factor of 7.
He wrapped it carefully in cotton wool for the return journey to Odessa.
I had no idea how to connect the various items I made or bought.
I had seen a circuit diagram in a French magazine of a detector with reaction.
I made the connections by twisting wires together and finally the receiver was complete.
The next thing was the aerial.
Some of them who had 'superior knowledge' told me the down-lead must have no bends.
I got hold of a stiff copper wire and supported the down-lead on two enormous bell insulators as used on telegraph poles.
I had to smash a corner of my bedroom window to bring the wire in. I had bought a large knife switch which could be turned over to connect the aerial to ground.
I was afraid the large flat top of the aerial would attract thunderbolts.
When I finally connected the aerial to the receiver I heard ABSOLUTELY NOTHING." I asked him how he tuned the receiver.
He said he had put many taps on the coil and he twisted his antenna to these taps trying various combinations with the tuning capacitor. "All I heard was this breathing noise.
I learned later that it was the 'carrier wave' of a broadcasting station without modulation, but I didn't know what that meant.
As my friends also heard the same noise I was convinced my receiver was working.
We soon found out that the long wave transmitter at Ankara, the capital of Turkey was making test transmissions without modulation.
Ankara was one of the first broadcasting stations in that part of the world." Norman: "Regeneration should have produced a whistle." Takis: "Yes, indeed.
And in a peculiar way.
When I approached the receiver my hand produced the whistle." Norman: "Hand capacity effect." Takis: "And foot capacity effect as well!
When I approached my knee to the metal leg of the work-bench I would lose the station I had been listening to.
He said the tuning capacitor he had made was obviously too small and he had to alter the taps on the coil continuously.
About three o'clock in the morning during a cold winter night he heard a new sound--the breathing (carrier) noise and a sort of regular ticking.
He later found out that it was the new broadcasting station in Vienna, Austria, which transmitted the sound of a metronome throughout the night.
This would have been about 1926. I asked Takis about school.
In spite of the late nights listening I never missed a day at school.
My father was the Chairman of the School Committee and I couldn't let him down.
But I had to earn some pocket money to pay for the bits a pieces I needed.
Particularly a decent pair of headphones; I had to hold the army headphone to me ear with one hand which gave me pins and needles.
For some years I had kept goldfish and pigeons, so I sold them.
But not on his first trip, when he was not allowed to go ashore. And it was not the captain who decided who could go ashore.
A trusted member of the Party would pick out a group of seamen who could land but they had to stay together the whole time. "I never managed to go abroad.
At the Club I had obtained a morse test certificate for 40 letters a minute (8 wpm) in Latin characters and 90 letters (18 wpm) in the Cyrillic alphabet (Russian).
To go abroad one had to up-grade to 80 Latin and 120 Cyrillic letters. (16 & 24 wpm).
I was put on a small coastal ice-breaker which cleared the river estuaries in the Black Sea. "The Black Sea is one of the most treacherous inland seas in the world.
During the winter its northern shores are frozen whereas the coast of Asia Minor keeps the southern shores relatively warm by comparison.
This results in gale force winds and rough seas.
Waves follow each other very closely as opposed to the long swell one gets in the Pacific.
As we turned to starboard we noticed an American freighter behind us heavily laden with wheat and very low down in the water.
To our horror it was caught between the crests of two enormous waves and broke in two roughly amidships.
Although we were only about half a mile away the freighter sank before we could get to it.
We saw a few survivors in the water, but it would have been impossible to put a boat into that treacherous sea.
Apart from which a man cannot survive many minutes in a water temperature just above freezing.
It was all over in a flash and we returned to Odessa in deep shock. "Odessa used to have four harbours.
The callsign of the W/T station was EU5KAO.
It must be soldered, he said, to a cold water tap. "I tried everything I could think of to solder the wire to the tap, but to no avail.
Then one day I had a brain-wave and I made a stupendous invention!
I wrapped a copper strip round the tap and bolted it tightly, together with the ground wire.
I was really very proud of myself and wondered if anybody else had ever thought of doing it that way." I asked Takis if he had done any transmitting from home.
We amateurs of foreign origin were not allowed to own transmitters but we could operate the club station under close supervision by the Party member who was always present.
My own SWL callsign was RK-1136 as you can see from the QSL card I received from EU5DN in 1929. "I remember our excitement when we first contacted a station outside Russia.
It was a station in Saarbrueken and we were on a wavelength of 42 metres.
All the members of the Club sent him our SWL reports and he sent us back his cards and a photograph of his equipment which was published in the Moscow amateur journal and so Odessa became famous.
On 42 metres most of our QSOs were with German stations.
I built a cw transmitter using four Philips valves.
I1IP wrote on his card 'I am on the air since 1924 but you are the first SV station I have heard'.
And the British listener BRS1183 wrote 'Dear old man, very pleased to report your signals.
Are you the only active station in SV?
I think those comments speak for themselves." Norman: "Had you not heard about Tavaniotis, who had also emigrated from Russia?" Takis: "No. It was you who took me to the basement shack and introduced me.
I remember how I gaped when I saw the 150 watt transmitter Bill had built." Takis then described how he had heard a distress signal on his home-made receiver.
It was in a language he could not understand so he called his father, who was quite a linguist, to listen.
It appeared that the vessel had caught fire as it was approaching the port of Piraeus, south of Athens.
The captain of the ship said their predicament was complicated by the fact that they were transporting a large circus, with many wild animals.
Anyway, somebody was brought to the station and the officer said "Go with this man.
Takis was taken to the coast at Palaio Faliro where he boarded a salvage tug, and they set out to sea.
But the engine room had been damaged, so the tug towed the vessel into harbour.
When I was shown the parts I was horrified to see that there was no circuit diagram or instructions of any sort. It took me more than a month to figure it all out.
The transmitter was of French manufacture and consisted of two enormous triodes in a Hartley oscillator circuit.
When I got it to work it was installed at the Naval Wireless station at Votanikos, where the Director, Captain Kyriakos Pezopoulos used it for experimental transmissions.
There were already two other transmitters there, one on Long Waves and one on 600 metres.
The callsign of the station was SXA.
As this was the third transmitter they used the callsign SXA3.
The operator, Lt. George Bassiacos, had discovered some telegraphy stations which replied when he called them--he had accidentally stumbled upon the amateur 20 metre band!
With a transmitter supplied with unrectified A.C. at 400 Hz. and a power output of several kilowatts, no wonder contacts with any part of the world were easy.
When Captain Pezopoulos met Bill Tavaniotis the latter suggested that if the 'experimental' transmissions were to continue in the amateurs bands, the callsign should be altered to SX3A.
Thousands of successful contacts were made as it was the beginning of sunspot cycle 16, a very good one as old timers will know.
If anyone reading this has a QSL card from SX3A it would be appreciated if he would donate it to the Technical Museum in Greece." (Takis Coumbias died suddenly of a heart attack in September 1987.) 2.
Pol Psomiadis N2DOE (formerly SV1AZ). The text which follows was written by Pol N2DOE of Bergenfield NJ. Norman Joly and I first met in 1935 when I started working with Bill SV1KE as his radio mechanic.
Norman was then working for the local agents of RCA selling broadcast receivers.
The last time I saw him before the war, was in September 1939.
I was still working with Bill and I went to the British School of Archaeology in Athens to deliver a National NC 100 with a Spiderweb all-band antenna.
Norman had been recruited to set up a monitoring station for the Press Department of the British Embassy, which had been moved to a building in the grounds of the school.
After the end of the war I saw him again in 1948 in the uniform of a Superintendent of Police working in the British Police Mission to Greece.
We had lost contact with each other and it was five years later that I found Norman's address in the American callbook.
I wrote to him and in his reply he begged me to come on the air again.
As I was one of them myself I agreed.
When I left to return to the U.S.A. he gave me a number of cassettes to transcribe. Although he speaks fluent Greek without any accent at all, he never attended a Greek school and couldn't write the memories.
Although we spoke Greek at home I did not go to a Greek school until I was nine.
The broadcasting of speech and music had not started yet in that part of the world, though in 1923, a broadcasting station was built in Ankara the capital of Turkey.
At school I met Nasos Coucoulis (later SV1SM and SV1AC) who was also very interested in wireless.
I made a crystal receiver and was able to hear the Greek Royal Navy station at Votanikos SXA and the old station at Thiseon in Athens itself, which was still a spark station.
There just was nothing else to hear.
I acquired a Philips 'E' type valve and built a grid-leak detector circuit, but all I got was silence.
The four volt heater drew one amp and I had been trying to get it going with a small torch battery.
After my military training I started work at the Lambropoulos Brothers shop in the Metohikon Tameion building.
It was there that I made the acquaintance of Takis Coumbias, who had come to Greece from Russia with his family.
Bill' had built an AM and CW transmitter with an output of 150 watts.
He used the callsign SV1KE.
We had regular contacts with George Moens SU1RO in Cairo, Egypt.
George is still active in his native land of Belgium with the callsign ON5RO in Brussels.
He should be well into his 80s by now.
Chas was born in Boston of Greek parents.
His father came to Greece in 1936 or 1937 with Charles' younger sister, a pretty little girl of about 14.
They came to Bill's shack and were able to speak to Boston with the equipment shown in this photograph taken by Norman.
After the end of World War II W1FH together with W6AM of California were the two leading stations in the U.S.A. topping all the achievement tables.
One night Dorothy gave us a big surprise.
In the course of a QSO she told us to listen carefully. Suddenly the three or four of us in SV1KE's shack heard our voices coming back from New York.
Dorothy had recorded our previous transmission on a disc.
A few days later we turned the tables on her. We had hastily put together some recording equipment and played back her transmission.
Dorothy said that was the first time she had heard her voice coming from 5,000 miles away.
I must explain that at that time (about 1933) home recording was a novelty even in the U.S.A. Recording on vinyl tape was invented by Telefunken towards the end of the war in 1945.
The main target of the infamous Maniadakis, Minister of the Interior under Metaxas, were of course the Communists, but the handful of radio amateurs also came under suspicion of being subversive elements.
Things got worse, in fact, when the newspaper ESTIA owned by K.
Kyrou, published an article blaming 'amateurs' for being responsible for interference to short wave reception.
I must explain that the writer was referring to the dozens of pirate low power broadcasting stations operating in the medium wave (broadcast) band.
So, as I was working in the basement workshop at SV1KE's one afternoon, three of Maniadakis' plain-clothes men turned up and said they had come to seize 'the broadcasting equipment'.
Fortunately Bill was not in the shop when they came.
There I met several amateurs serving with the British forces, and one of them gave me a small military transmitter, so I was able to come on the air again with my old callsign of SV1AZ. 3.
Constantine 'Bill' Tavaniotis (formerly SV1KE). There is no doubt that the most active and best known amateur in Greece before World War II was 'Bill' SV1KE.
His father was a well-known doctor.
Like many other Greek families Bill and his parents left Russia in the early years of the Communist regime and moved to Istanbul, Turkey, where he began his studies at the famous Robert College.
His pronunciation in all them was excellent.
On one occasion at a party in the Athens suburb of Palaio Psyhico one of the guests was an amateur from Italy who spoke no English, so Bill interpreted from that language into Italian for his benefit.
He then translated what the Italian had said into English for the others.
But suddenly their faces went blank.
Quite unconsciously Bill had translated the Italian's remarks into Turkish!
Many years later Bill was employed at the United Nations in New York as a simultaneous translator.
In October 1946 Bill and his wife Artemis visited Charles Mellen W1FH in Boston for an 'eyeball' after more than ten years of QSOs over the air, with the exception of the war years of course.
Of course all visiting amateurs made a beeline for the shack in the basement.
As most of our contacts were with the U.S.A. we were usually up most of the night because of the 7-hour difference with Eastern Standard Time.
I am referring to Stefanos Eleftheriou who was Section Head for Telecommunications at the Ministry (Greek initials T.T.T.)., and to Captain Kyriakos Pezopoulos, Director of D.R.Y.N. (Greek initials for Directorate of the Wireless Service of the Navy).
The long wave spark transmitter at Votanikos, a suburb of Athens, (callsign SXA) had been built by the Marconi company before World (Bill Tavaniotis died of cancer in 1948.) 4.
With a maximum power of 50 watts. 2.
In the frequency bands (harmonics) 130, 260, 520 Mc/s. 3.
In the frequency bands 28 Mc/s and 56 Mc/s. 4.
In the final amplifier stage Harry used a Telefunken pentode, the famous and very efficient RL12P35 which was used in the German tank transmitters in all stages, oscillator, P.A. and audio amplifier/suppressor grid modulator.
He adopted the same method of modulation using a record player amplifier and an Astatic crystal microphone. W.A.C. was achieved by February 1948 with about 50 watts of R.F. into a simple dipole antenna.
During the ten months that SV1WE was active 750 QSL cards were sent out.
Of the 61 countries worked only 49 were confirmed. Today (1989) Harry is still regularly on the air under his original callsign G2AIQ which was first issued to him on the 1st of January 1938, 51 years ago. 5.
George Yiapapas (formerly SV1GY). George Yiapapas is a Greek amateur who was very active for over 25 years yet nobody seems to have heard of him.
In 1935 George and his father Costas built a one-valve transmitter using a type 59 pentode with suppressor grid modulation, and succeeded in contacting most of the world with this QRP rig.
A friend of his told him "Don't go into the Army, join the Navy; they have an amazing wireless station at Votanikos with which they can contact the Fleet anywhere in the world".
As it happened there was a vacancy for an officer and Stefanos together with another young man called Nikolis faced a Selection Board of naval officers who really didn't know what qualifications they were looking for.
Nor do most of my officers.
We must set up a school to train technicians and wireless operators.
I entrust you with the task of getting all the necessary books and other materials.
Write to England, the U.S.A., France and Germany and get whatever you need.
When you are ready I will appoint staff to assist you.
That was how Eleftheriou became the head of the first school for training wireless officers for the Greek Royal Navy. A couple of years later Eleftheriou joined the staff of the Ministry of Post & Telegraphs.
He was a very likeable person and had a talent for anecdotes.
One day he told us that he had attended a Joint Services Committee which had been set up to study the requirements for building a broadcasting station in Athens.
One of the military officers, who shall be nameless, remarked angrily "What!
We are spending all this money only to be received up to Koukouvaounes?
This is outrageous!" (Koukouvaounes was then a small village with a funny name about 3 miles south-west of Athens. Eleftheriou lived to the ripe old age of 84.
When I last saw him he promised to give me his collection of old photographs and a large number of books and documents relating to the development of radio communications in Greece.
Unfortunately, shortly after his death his wife and three sons moved house temporarily and a packing case containing all these priceless papers was lost in 7.
Joly G3FNJ. (Formerly SV1RX). I was born in Izmir (then known as Smyrna), on the west coast of Turkey in Asia Minor, in 1911, of British parents.
My British nationality was established through the Treaty of Capitulation which was then in force between Turkey and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
I remember there was a British Post Office in Smyrna and we posted our letters with British postage stamps (of King Edward VII) overprinted with the word LEVANT. My grandmother on my father's side had come from Russia.
It is a strange coincidence that Takis Coumbias (ex SV1AAA), Bill Tavaniotis (ex SV1KE) and I all had roots in southern Russia.
My grandmother on my mother's side was the daughter of the Dutch consul in Smyrna.
Quite a mixed bag. In 1922, at the end of the war between Turkey and Greece, the town of Smyrna was destroyed by fire when the Greek army was routed.
My widowed mother with four young children, was advised to take us on board a British merchant vessel while the town changed hands.
We were told to take a little food with us just for a day or two.
We carried a large string bag with some bread, cheese and fruit, and one knife, one fork and one spoon between the five of us.
I remember it was night and my mother put all her jewelry in a small leather bag.
As I pulled the cord to close it the pin of a large broach stuck out through the top.
My mother grabbed it and said I would hurt myself--I was only 11 years old at the time.
She looked around the bedroom, lifted up a corner of the mattress of her bed and hid the pouch 'safely' underneath it.
We hurried out of the house--and never went back. We and many other families spent one night on the merchant vessel where there was no sleeping accommodation.
Next morning we were transferred to a large hospital ship called MAINE.
All day we watched small groups of the Turkish and Greek armies skirmishing on the sea-front and in the evening many fires broke out in the town.
In the middle of the night while we were sleeping the hospital ship sailed away to an unknown destination.
After two or three days we arrived in Malta, where most of us stayed for the next four years. It was in Malta that my interest in wireless telegraphy was first aroused.
We were housed in some military 'married quarters'.
Close by there was a wireless station which produced bright greenish-blue sparks and crackling noises.
Its antennas were supported on three very tall wooden masts painted bright yellow.
I soon discovered that it was GYZ belonging to the Admiralty.
My father and grandfather had been in this business in Turkey. It was in Mitylene in 1927 that I constructed my first short wave receiver.
It had 3 valves with 4 volt filaments, heated by an accumulator (storage battery).
H.T of 130 volts was obtained from a bank of small accumulators in series.
As I had not learned how to make a charger I had to carry these two units to a local garage regularly for re-charging. Apart from commercial telegraph stations there was little else to hear.
I had still not heard about 'amateur' radio.
The B.B.C. was carrying out test transmissions from Chelmsford for what became the Empire Service (now the World Service) using the callsign G5SW.
There was also G6RX which stood for Rugby Experimental, operated by the British Post Office.
It was there that I met Bill Tavaniotis, SV1KE, and his mechanic Pol SV1AZ (now N2DOE).
With an input of around 5 watts I was able to achieve W.A.C. on 14 MHz in 25 minutes one very exciting afternoon.
There were very few stations around and single frequency working had not been heard of yet.
It was the middle of the sunspot cycle (which I knew nothing of) and propagation must have been exceptionally good. Another thing we had never heard of in those innocent days was SWR.
I had a Hot Wire ammeter and always tuned for maximum deflection, completely oblivious of the fact that a large proportion of the indicated value was 'reflected power'.
I moved to 'high power' when I added a 210 P.A. to my rig. Obviously the prefix SV was quite a rare one and SV stations were much sought after, particularly the handful who used CW.
But as I described in a short article in the October 1948 issue of the SHORT WAVE MAGAZINE published in London, it was not all fun being a rare DX station.
A photo copy appears below: To return to pre-World War II operating: Most operators used crystal oscillators in order to have a clean '9x' note.
Of course I had dismantled everything 19 months previously and even taken down the antenna.
So after this long period of QRT how did they know where to find me?
Well, FOUR YEARS EARLIER I had won the first prize for Greece in the D.A.S.D.
DX Contest for 1937 and the German society had sent me a nice certificate.
You can draw your own conclusions.
In my capacity as a member of the Press Department staff of the British Embassy I took part in the first programme, and in fact read the first news bulletin, which went out at 3 a.m. Athens time.
As I said above, early in April I was transferred to the British Embassy in Cairo, Egypt. 1941: Very small contingents of the British army landed in Greece to help the Greek army.
But they proved totally incapable of standing up to the onslaught of the German army which followed soon after.
The Greek army laid down its arms in Epirus (north-western Greece). General Tsolakoglou became the first 'Quisling' Prime Minister of Greece.
King George and his government, under Premier Emmanouil Tsouderos had left for Cairo. 1942: In North Africa General Rommel had advanced to within 100 miles of Cairo, but his supply lines had become very long.
One of the most important was the railway link through Greece, so the British strategists decided that attempts must be made to disrupt it.
It didn't take Meyers and Woodhouse long to discover that by far the largest group was E.L.A.S. (the Popular Liberation Army) under Aris Velouhiotis, about 120 ill-equipped men operating in the Pindus mountains.
Another smaller group of about 60 men had rallied round a regular officer of the Greek army, Colonel Napoleon Zervas.
They called themselves the National Republican Greek League (Greek initials E.D.E.S.) I met Zervas personally years later when he was Minister of the Interior (and therefore responsible for the Police).
I was then acting as interpreter for the Assistant-Head of the British Police Mission to Greece.
The K.K.E. controlled E.A.M., the National Liberation Front which, in turn, ran E.L.A.S.
The S.O.E. units had orders to cause the maximum disruption to the German occupation of the country.
And that was impossible without the support of E.L.A.S., which was controlled by the Communists.
At the outset, it became obvious to the S.O.E. officers that military and political priorities were already in conflict. E.L.A.S. forces were getting stronger every day and very soon they began attacking fellow Greeks in non-communist Andarte units.
When Eddie Myers told them that he had been instructed to destroy the bridge over the Asopos river, ELAS said it was too dangerous a target and refused to help, so this became an all-British operation.
A 24-year-old demolition expert of the Royal Engineers Captain Ken Scott, was sent from Cairo.
He was dropped by parachute, and planned the successful attack on the bridge.
It took the Germans four months to rebuild it. On the 11th of September 14,000 Italian troops in the north-west surrendered to the Andartes with all their arms.
A month later ELAS seized the weapons and attacked EDES.
The civil war had begun. 1944: The friction between the various groups of the Resistance movement erupted into full-scale war, described as the 'civil war' or the 'guerrilla war' depending on whose side you were on.
ELAS were determined that they alone would be in control when the Allies arrived.
In September the government moved temporarily to Italy.
In October, following the withdrawal of the Germans from Athens, British troops began landing in Greece from Greek and British warships.
The British troops, so recently feted and garlanded now found themselves fighting on the same streets of their earlier welcome.
S.O.E. had been warning Cairo for two years that this might happen.
After three or four weeks of intense fighting in the streets of Athens and in the suburbs, ELAS withdrew. Winston Churchill came to Athens on Christmas Day to mediate.
A couple of ELAS snipers hiding in a school a few hundred yards away from the British Embassy took a few pot shots at him as he got out of an armoured vehicle which had brought him from the airport.
Next day, when he attended a meeting of all parties, the ELAS representative walked in wearing a military-style uniform with crossed bandoleers across his chest, and carrying two pistols.
Plastiras replaced Papandreou as Prime Minister.
After the Varkiza agreement the guerrilla war (or civil war) was officially brought to an end. Years later in a broadcast, Chris Woodhouse summarised what the S.O.E. mission to Greece had achieved. 1.
It had provided the technical expertise, such as the handling of explosives, without which the major sabotage successes would have been impossible. 2.
It had provided the tactical planning and supplied the communications which successfully harnessed the courage of the Greeks to the strategic requirements of the Allied commanders. 3.
Most important of all, in the long run, it assured that no armed force in occupied Greece would gain a monopoly of power on the day of liberation.
AVEROF I had been appointed Radio Monitoring Officer of the Anglo-Greek Information Service (A.G.I.S.) with a staff of about 25 W/T operators and typists to assist me.
My unit was a section of the Press Department of the British Embassy.
I think the choice of title was a rather unfortunate mistake.
The English words 'information' and 'intelligence' have only one equivalent word in Greek pliroforiesq. And most Greeks hold peculiar views about the C.I.A. and the British Intelligence Service.
So here I was strutting about in the uniform of a war correspondent bearing the flashes 'I.S.', the butt of many a joke from my friends who accused me of being a master spy.
I replied I had heard nothing, but would try and find out if the rumour was true.
As he left my office I glanced at my watch; it was 11 o'clock in the morning, 9 o'clock in London.
I telephoned the General Manager of Cable & Wireless, Mr Briggs, who was a personal friend.
I told him I wanted to make use of his facilities to ask an urgent question of the B.B.C. in London.
I immediately tuned one of my receivers to the frequency of the London telegraph link, which was carrying high speed morse traffic.
In a short while the tape was stopped and an operator, using a hand key, asked my question slowly in plain language, and then the tape was put on again.
I waited anxiously for about five minutes.
Again the tape was stopped, a single letter 'R' (for received) was sent by hand, and traffic returned to normal.
My telephone rang; it was McTaggert.
The B.B.C. have no plans for such a broadcast.
I thanked him and looked at my watch.
It was 11.25, just 25 minutes had elapsed.
I called my boss and told him the answer to his question.
How do you know?" he asked.
I asked the B.B.C., sir.
You what?" he shouted at me.
Don't you know there's a war on?
I'm coming to see you.
He stormed into my office and demanded an explanation, so I told him what I had done.
Good God, what is this going to cost us?".
There is no provision for anything like that in the operating procedure".
Then I must write a letter to Cable & Wireless to thank them.
I thought to myself, why don't you write a letter to Norman and thank him for having friends in the right places.
But I kept my mouth shut. My equipment and my staff of 20 men and 5 girls were housed on the 6th floor of the Metohikon Tamion building.
When ELAS marched on Athens, there was constant firing, shelling and bombing throughout the 24 hours of the day and night for three or four weeks.
The bombing was by light aircraft of the R.A.F. on the ELAS positions in the suburbs and Beaufighter aircraft straffing them with 20 mm cannon.
Then ELAS set up a 75 mm gun in the northern suburb of Aharnon, and started hitting us back.
When we had received several hits on and around our H.Q. building, I was ordered to move down to the second floor, to safer accommodation.
I extended some of my antenna down-leads, and resumed normal service.
This was a sort of very course TV picture of 49 dots, seven by seven.
The letter 'I' for instance came out as seven dots vertically, and the letter 'T' just had another six dots across the top.
The letters were very crude but readable, provided there was no interference, or crashes of static.
The interference, which made our tape quite unreadable, used to start around 3 in the afternoon and fade slowly away about three hours later, when the tape became readable again.
I decided I would try and identify the source.
All I had in the way of recorders were office-type Dictaphones using wax cylinders.
I typed it all out and noticed that some of the paragraphs began with the letter 'B'.
I subsequently found out it was a characteristic of stations carrying Royal Air Force traffic.
I sent my text to London, and three weeks later the interference stopped.
It was more than a month later that I was told what had happened.
The transmitter causing the problem was located in Kandy, Ceylon.
It operated with a rhombic antenna beamed to R.A.F.
Its frequency was only 500 Hz away from GIN.
The department which had allocated the frequency never imagined that it could possibly cause interference in Europe to the REUTER news service.
But sunspot cycle 20, which was a good one, had decided otherwise. In 1947 I was transferred to the British Police Mission to Greece, which was headed by Sir Charles Wickham.
My principal duty was to interpret for Sir Charles, and for his second in command Colonel Prosser.
My friend Mr Eleftheriou at the Ministry issued me with a special licence and I came on the air again using my pre-war callsign SV1RX.
When the Police Mission closed down in 1948 I came to England and got the callsign G3FNJ which I have now held for over 41 years. 8.
It was the s/s 'Corinthia' which left Piraeus on the 18th of April 1941.
It happened to be Good Friday according to the Greek-Orthodox calendar.
About five days later Hitler's army marched into Athens. "The ship was packed and the British Embassy staff carried most of the Embassy files with them.
One of the passengers was David Balfour who was the vicar of the little chapel attached to the Evangelismos Hospital, an impressive tall figure of a man sporting a large black beard.
Although he had been ordained as a priest of the Greek-Orthodox Church he was a British national and it was widely rumoured that he was an agent of British Intelligence.
His official title was 'Father Dimitrios'.
He was also the spiritual father of the Greek Royal family.
When the 'Corinthia' sailed he was still 'Father Dimitrios' and in fact he officiated at a Resurrection service while we were still at sea.
Thursby in the 'ATHENIAN'. "Several years before war was even declared, the Abwehr (German military intelligence), along with the Nazi civilian secret service, had highly trained undercover agents operating in Greece.
With consummate skill they had catalogued all military and civil information that could be useful to the Third Reich, and organised spy rings throughout the country.
He had studied in various parts of Europe and spoke several languages fluently.
These included ancient, Byzantine and modern Greek, not to mention colloquial 'mangika' (slang).
We celebrated Easter on board and when we arrived at Alexandria some of us were sent on to Cairo and others went to India.
My brother and I presented ourselves at the offices of the Press Department of the British Embassy in the Garden City.
We were received by the well-known Byzantine scholar Stephen Runciman who was in charge of all foreign language broadcasts directed to Europe, that is, the Balkans, Yugoslavia, Romania, Bulgaria, Albania, Poland and several others.
One of our colleagues was Lawrence Durrell who later became the famous author of many successful books like the banned 'Black Book', 'Bitter Lemons', 'The Alexandria Quartet', 'Prospero's Cell' and others.
The Head of this section was George Haniotis the sports editor of the Athens newspaper 'Elefthero Vima' who used to sign his sporting articles 'GEO'.
Under him was the well-known literary figure of Dimitri Fotiadis, who died in October 1988. "When the broadcasts began early in May 1941 I was the principal newsreader.
Later when Haniotis was posted to the Greek Embassy in Washington D.C. as Press Attache, my brother was appointed Section Head.
At that time the Prime Minister of the Greek government in exile was Emmanouil Tsouderos, a former Director of the Bank of Greece.
The foreign language broadcasts from Radio Cairo were under the over-all control of the Political Warfare Executive (P.W.E.) of the British Ministry of Information.
He can be seen at the famous R.C.A velocity microphone type 44BX which was used throughout World War II and many years after.
During the three and a half years of the broadcasts this was done only on one special occasion and certainly not because the newsreader had gone berserk or something like that.
The Chief Censor was Professor Eric Sloman who had been the first Director of the Police Academy in Kerkyra (Corfu).
Then there were censors for the eleven languages used in these broadcasts.
The censor for the Polish broadcasts was the Countess Walevska, grand-daughter of Napoleon's lady friend.
The Countess was a rather large lumbering woman who always came into the studio carrying lots of parcels.
One evening she came in and sat in an armchair on the other side of the studio to wait her turn for the Polish broadcast which followed the Greek.
As I was reading the news bulletin I suddenly became conscious of a regular ticking noise in the headphones I was wearing.
I made a sign to Mr Joly who was acting as switch censor at the time, and he got up and walked over to the Countess.
He whispered in her ear and asked her what was in her hand bag.
The Countess blushed and replied that she had just collected her alarm clock from the watchmaker.
The Noel-Baker family are well-known in Greece because for several generations they have owned a large property on the island of Euboea (Evia in Greek).
Francis speaks fluent Greek, and his mother was related to Lord Byron.
I must explain that during a broadcast the two doors leading into the studio were kept closed and an armed officer of the Military Police sat outside (in civilian clothes) to prevent anyone from entering for any reason whatsoever.
I was in the middle of reading the news when suddenly, without warning, the inner door opened and a young despatch-rider, still wearing his crash helmet, walked in waving a piece of paper.
Mr Joly immediately switched off the microphone and asked the young man what he thought he was doing.
Most Immediate sir', he said. (This is the army's highest priority classification.) 'To be broadcast at once.' "Mr Joly handed the document to me and I saw it was written in English.
Taking a deep breath I began translating the text into Greek, with some excitement and trepidation owing to the difference in syntax between the two languages.
Forty-six years later Mr Joly gave me the identical sheet of paper, which he had kept as a souvenir.
It is printed here in full.
At the Editorial offices, where they were monitoring the newscast, they thought I had gone out of my mind, because the communique had not reached them yet.
When they tuned in to the short wave service of the B.B.C. they heard the communique read out more than an hour after our Greek broadcast.
A world scoop, if ever there was one.
Many people were escaping from occupied Greece in sailing boats across to the shores of Asia Minor, ending up in the Middle East, mostly in Cairo.
They had no means of advising their relatives and friends in Greece that they had survived the perilous journey.
The first broadcasting stations of the world. Speech was first transmitted for reception by the general public from Washington D.C. in 1915 when Europe was still at war.
Hanso Steringa Idzerda, a 35 year old engineer, obtained the first licence granted in Europe for the transmission of music and speech for general reception, as opposed to the wireless telegraphy stations which had been operating point to point services.
From the end of 1919 to 1924 this station transmitted a series of musical programmes three times a week called 'The Hague Concerts'.
Dr. Frank Conrad, who was also present at the conference, had brought with him a small short wave receiver less than a foot square.
When he connected it to a curtain rod as an antenna the faint but clear voices of his assistants in the U.S.A. were heard from nearly four thousand miles away.
It is in fairly echoey halls, theatres and churches that the majority of outside broadcasts take place.
Some rapid switching may sometimes be necessary. "Even with good microphones and amplifiers the engineer in the field may often experience difficulties with the lines connecting the outside point to the studio.
The majority of such lines do not transmit the higher frequencies adequately, especially the longer ones.
The problems become immense when European simultaneous broadcasts are attempted.
Experiments on the continental wireless link have done no more than reveal its unreliability.
Rolo wrote, "Radio went to war on five continents shortly after the Nazi Party came to power in Germany.
In nine years it has been streamlined from a crude propaganda bludgeon into the most powerful single instrument of political warfare the world has ever known.
Spreading with the speed of light, it carries the human voice seven times round the globe in one second.
When Hitler makes a speech in the Kroll Opera House in Berlin, listeners in America and the whole world hear his words by short wave even before his own immediate audience hears them.
Radio speaks in all tongues to all classes.
All pervasive, it penetrates beyond national frontiers, spans the walls of censorship that bar the way to the written word, and seeps through the fine net of the Gestapo.
It reaches the illiterate and the informed, the young and the old, the civilian and the soldier in the front line, the policy makers and the inarticulate masses.
The centre-fed T antenna was supported between two pylons of 85 metres (279 feet).
In 1944 when the German army was pulling out of Athens they tried to blow the the pylons up but one of them remained standing at a crazy angle, because one of the explosive charges had been placed incorrectly. 2.
Avlis 'The Voice of Hellas'. The 5th Programme of the Greek broadcasting service (Elliniki Radiophonia) is transmitted from the short wave transmitting centre at Avlis, about 70 kilometres north of Athens.
The pylons supporting the 6 MHz arrays are truly impressive at 328 feet.
Each line has eight separate antennas for the 6, 7, 9, 11, 15, 17 and 21 MHz broadcasting bands. Each antenna consists of two curtains with a total of 8 horizontal dipoles.
The dipoles are all fed by open wire feeders which can be remotely switched to enable radiation in two directions 180 degrees apart.
In ancient times a great fleet of ships had been assembled in the harbour there, ready to set sail for Troy, following the abduction of the beautiful Helen of Sparta by Paris, the young Prince of Troy.
But there had been no wind for many weeks, and the sea was dead calm. Agamemnon, the King of Mycenae, who had himself contributed over 100 ships to the fleet, decided to consult his Seer.
As was the custom, the Seer slaughtered a young lamb and scrutinised its entrails.
He then announced that the wind would come up if Agamemnon sacrificed his daughter Iphigenia on the Altar of Sacrifice.
King Agamemnon despatched a messenger to Mycenae (no VHF repeater being available in those days) to tell his wife Queen Klitemnestra to send their daughter Iphigenia to Avlis (Aulis).
The King said he was planning to marry her off to Achilles, the most eligible bachelor of the day.
When poor Iphigenia arrived she was quickly placed on the Sacrificial Altar--and had her pretty throat slit. However, there seems to be another version to the end of the story.
Just before the human sacrifice was due to be made Artemis (Diana, the famous Goddess of Hunting) sent a small deer which was placed on the altar instead of the girl.
He used his machine to record the Morse code only, that is magnetism 'on' and 'off'.
In 1924 Dr. Stille in Germany made a machine which could record sounds.
He called it the Blattnerphone.
By this time Dr. Stille had replaced Poulsen's wire with a flat steel tape 6 mm wide.
Each reel of tape could only accommodate 20 minutes of recording.
There was a constant and heavy background hiss, due to the inherent quality of the steel tape itself. Stille Inventions Ltd. joined forces with Marconi's Wireless Telegraph Co. Ltd. to produce, with the close co-operation of the B.B.C.
Research Department, the Marconi-Stille machine which was put into use in 1934.
The tape width was reduced to 3 mm and the thickness to only 0.08 of a millimetre.
In order to secure the reproduction of the higher audio frequencies, it was found necessary to run the tape at a rate of 90 metres per minute past the recording and reproducing heads.
This meant that the length of tape required for a half-hour's programme was nearly 3 kilometres! 4.
Brief description of the ribbon or velocity microphone. George Papandreou, Greek Prime Minister of the war-time government of National Unity in exile, is seen with the famous ribbon microphone developed by the B.B.C. in 1934.
This microphone (R.C.A. designation 44BX) consists of a ribbon of corrugated aluminium foil only 0.0002 of an inch thick suspended vertically in a very intense but narrow magnetic field.
The frequency response is 20 to 16,000 Hz.
This system provides infinitely variable polarisation which optimises the down-link signal at any instant. 6.
AVEROF in the same convoy.
The photograph of L84, a similar type destroyer to ADRIAS shows how much of her bows was blown off by the collision with the mine. (H.H.M.S. stands for His Hellenic Majesty's Ship.) 7.
German sabotage at the Cable & Wireless station at Pallini, Greece, in World War II. As the German army was pulling out of Greece in October 1944 its engineers carried out extensive sabotage to installations of a strategic value.
Here they tried to destroy six 300 foot tubular masts. One remained standing and also the lower part of another.
All the test gear in the lab was thrown out of a second floor window and burnt.
I was acting as official photographer for my unit at the time. When I walked into a small store room I saw all the equipment had been thrown off the shelves on to the floor, but appeared to be intact.
I spotted a box of brand new packed German navy morse keys and decided the time had come for me to acquire a small war trophy of my own.
As I bent down to pick up a key, I was horrified to see two large sticks of gelignite perched perilously on the edge of a shelf.
The explosive was tied with white ribbon, with a weight attached to the other end. I froze to the spot.
Gingerly I lifted my trophy out of the box and began to walk slowly backwards, being very careful not to knock anything over.
I breathed a sigh of relief when I was out of the room and immediately alerted the engineers who came and defused the booby trap.
We provided the broadcasting authority with a BC 610 mobile transmitter installed next to the Parliament building in the centre of town, using the same frequency of 610 KHz.
Listeners in Cairo couldn't understand what was going on when one moment they heard an official government announcement and a little later a war communique issued by the Communist guerrillas. 8.
On the first day the "knock-knock-knock" went on continuously for over ten hours.
Radio amateurs, who were among the services that suffered from the interference, soon came to call this noise "the woodpecker".
Modern OTHR installations have different transmitting and receiving sites, often located many miles apart. From the early 1950s pulsed oblique ionosphere sounders had shown that the normal ionosphere is much more stable than had previously been thought to be.
The physical reason for this is that the incredibly tenuous ionized gas which does the reflecting has a molasses-like viscosity.
Of course, there are daily and seasonal changes, but over limited periods of half an hour or so, the F layer at a given location is actually quite well-behaved.
It bounces back signals in a nearly constant direction and with nearly constant amplitude--just what is required for good radar performance. Over-the-horizon HF radars use the ionosphere as a kind of mirror to "see" around the curvature of the earth.
They have a variety of uses, both military and civilian.
In an early experiment operators were puzzled by the sudden disappearance from their screen of an aircraft they had been tracking as it taxied along the ground.
Because HF frequencies were being used the power was kept very low to minimize interference to other services during the early tests.
Each one of the 176 DIRs can be "illuminated" for only a few seconds at a time.
Small aircraft and small vessels can be detected by an ingenious method, only when they move.
This is how it is done: At the receiving site of the ROTHR system a very large antenna stretches out over a distance of 8,400 feet.
It consists of 372 dual-monopole vertical elements each 19 feet high, backed by a huge reflector screen which makes the antenna substantially unidirectional. Each pair of vertical elements has its own receiver which digitizes the incoming signals.
All the digitized signals are then fed through a fibre-optic link to a master signal processor.
The incoming real-time data from these soundings are compared with data stored in computer memory.
Once real-time data are matched to a model of the ionosphere, the model can be used to operate the system for the best results, based on the prevailing propagation conditions.
The data for the ionospheric models take up more than 200 megabytes of computer storage space.
Operators thus know when and where to expect degraded performance.
Of course, strong solar activity can virtually make over-the-horizon HF radar unusable. A Spectrum Analyser display shows all the frequencies between 5 and 28 MHz.
Amateur Radio Relay League (U.S.A.). Beacon Transmitter radiating identification signal. C.Q.
General call, to any station. C.R.T.
Cathode ray tube (like TV screen). C.W.
Initials of a war-time Greek guerrilla organisation. E.E.R.
Equivalent Greek initials for R.A.A.G. (q.v.) E.L.A.S.
Initials of a war-time Greek guerrilla organisation. E.L.F.
His Hellenic Majesty's Ship. Gasfet A type of transistor. KHz Kilohertz--international unit for kilocycle. M.U.F.
Frequently used for "shut up". QSO Two-way communication. QST Call to all stations.
Also title of journal of the A.R.R.L. QTH Location or address of a station. R.A.A.G.
Radio Amateur Association of Greece. R.F.
Propagation via the E layer of the ionosphere. T.E.P.
Transequatorial propagation. TX Transmitter. Troposcatter Propagation via the troposphere. U.H.F.
Worked (contacted) all continents. XYL Wife of a radio amateur. YL Young lady operator. 73 Morse abbreviation for "best regards". Yagi A type of antenna designed by a Japanese of that name.
This text may be shared in whole or in part so long as this header is included.
It may be quoted freely so long as its authorship is properly credited.
As the book is out of print, the author has chosen to make it freely available. We want to know of any mistakes you find, so we can correct them in text editions to come.
Send corrections to Norman Coombs.
African Origins The Human Cradle West African Empires The Culture of West Africa 2.
The Human Market The Slave Trade Caribbean Interlude 3.
Slavery As Capitalism The Shape of American Slavery North American and South American Slavery Slavery and the Formation of Character Slave Response 4.
All Men Are Created Equal Slavery and the American Revolution Slave Insurrections Growing Racism Part Two.
A Nation Divided Black Moderates and Militants White Liberals Growth of Extremism 6.
From Slavery to Segregation Blue, Gray, and Black Reconstruction and Its Failure The New Racism 7.
Racism and Democracy Fighting Jim Crow Making the World Safe for Democracy Urban Riots The Klan Revival Part Three.
The Search For Equality 8.
The Crisis of Leadership The Debate Over Means and Ends Booker T.
Washington: The Trumpet of Conciliation W.
DuBois: The Trumpet of Confrontation Marcus Garvey: The Trumpet of Pride A.
Philip Randolph: The Trumpet of Mobilization 9.
The New Negro Immigration and Migration Harlem: "The Promised Land" The Negro Renaissance Black Nationalism 10.
Fighting Racism at Home and Abroad Hard Times Again The Second World War The U.S. and the U.N. 11.
Civil Rights and Civil Disobedience Schools and Courts The Civil Rights Movement 12.
Previously, it emphasized how the various immigrant groups in America shed their divergent heritages and amalgamated into a new nationality.
Many of the later arrivals differed from them, in one or more ways.
History books usually depicted these new waves of immigrants as assimilating almost fully into American society.
On the one hand, they differ from the other minorities because they came involuntarily, suffered the cruelties of slavery, and were of another color.
All of this made their experience unique.
Historical presentations which stressed the political component, thereby tended to leave the later immigrants in the background.
However, because these newcomers did not assimilate fully into the mainstream of America, they maintained some of their ethnic identity and made fresh and unique contributions to American life.
A socio-cultural approach to history, through highlighting society and culture rather than politics, brings these minorities into proper focus. This study of Afro-Americans seeks to describe the character and culture which they produced for themselves in America.
Race relations in America are not today what they were a century ago.
The progress of history may not be the wide highway moving steadily and smoothly upward as many have believed, but the racial picture in America has altered and will continue to do so--sometimes for the better, sometimes for the worse.
Nevertheless, it is only by knowing ourselves that we can intelligently face our crises.
My thanks are also extended to my father, Earl Coombs, for his invaluable assistance in helping with the hours of painstaking research demanded by such a project.
Miss Dorothy Ruhl provided the detailed, careful labor necessary to help prepare the manuscript for the printer, and Mrs. Doris Kist performed the demanding task of proofreading it.
I also want to thank Cecyle S.
Neidle, the editor of the Immigrant Heritage of America series, for her helpful supervision and advice.
Finally, I owe a deep debt of gratitude to my wife, Jean, for typing the manuscript, for a host of other miscellaneous tasks and, above all, for her forbearance and encouragement. N.
C. PART ONE From Freedom to Slavery CHAPTER 1 African Origins The Human Cradle THREE and a half centuries of immigration have injected ever-fresh doses of energy and tension into the American bloodstream.
As diverse peoples learned to live together, they became a dynamo generating both creativity and conflict.
One of the most diverse elements in American life was introduced when Africans were forcibly brought to the American colonies. The American experiment had begun and consisted mainly of white men with a European heritage.
The African was of a different color, had a different language, a different religion, and had an entirely different world view.
But perhaps the most striking contrast was that, while the European came voluntarily in search of greater individual opportunity, the African came in chains.
Because the European was the master and thereby the superior in the relationship, he assumed that his heritage was also superior.
However, he was mistaken, because the African had a rich heritage of importance both to himself and to mankind.
When people interact intimately over a long period of time, the influences are reciprocal.
This is true even when their relationship is that of master and slave. To trace the importance of the African heritage one must go back millions of years.
Evidence is accumulating to the effect that Africa is the cradle of mankind.
Professor Louis Leakey argues that Africa was important in the development of mankind in three ways.
First, some thirty or forty million years ago, the basic stock which eventually gave rise to both man and the ape came into existence in the vicinity of the Nile Valley.
Second, some twelve or fourteen million years ago, the main branch which was to lead to the development of man broke away from the branch leading to the ape.
Third, about two million years ago, in the vicinity of East Africa, true man broke away from his now extinct manlike cousins.
The present species of man-Homo Sapiens--developed through a complex process of natural selection from a large number of different manlike creatures-hominids. One of the most numerous of the early hominids was Australopithecus Africanus who originated in Africa.
Although he also did some hunting, he lived mainly by collecting and eating vegetables.
One of the things that identified him as a man was his utilization of primitive tools.
Although the hominids spread far outside of Africa, it is clear that they originate there and that it was in Africa that true man first emerged.
As Darwin predicted a century ago, Africa has been found to be the father of mankind. For many thousands of years, Homo Sapiens and the other hominids lived side by side in Africa as elsewhere.
By ten thousand years ago, however, all the hominids had disappeared.
Scholars believe that this was the result of the gradual absorption of all the other hominids by the more biologically advanced Homo Sapiens.
This process may explain the appearance of variations within Homo Sapiens.
At various times and places, as Homo Sapiens absorbed other hominid strains, differences within Homo Sapiens developed.
In any case it is clear that the various types of man came into existence very early.
Anthropological literature used to suggest that skin color in some groups was a possible indication of Mongoloid influences or that the thin, straight lips common in another group could be envisioned as a Caucasoid feature.
However, it has become increasingly obvious that an analysis based on specific single traits such as these is always a poor indication of either racial origin or of racial contact.
In fact, they could just as likely be the result of spontaneous and local variations within a given population grouping.
In contrast, recent anthropological research is putting less emphasis on bone measurement and shape and, instead, is turning increasingly to technical analysis particularly through the examination of blood types. Making and using tools are what differentiate man from animals.
The earliest tools which have survived the wear of time were made of stone. As man's techniques of handling stone improved, so did his tools.
The hand axe, a large oval of chipped flint varying in size and weight, came into common usage about half a million years ago, and it has been found in much of Europe, Asia, and Africa.
This too seems to have had an African origin.
While scholars are not certain about its use, it was probably used for killing animals and for chopping meat. The first achievement which radically altered man's condition was the invention of tools.
The second achievement was his learning of primitive agriculture which transformed the hunter into the farmer.
The domestication of animals and the planting and cultivating of crops had begun in the Near East, but the practice shortly spread to the Nile Valley in Northeast Africa.
At the same time, farming communities sprang up throughout the Sahara which, at that time, was going through one of its wet phases.
This made it well-suited to early agriculture.
Farming permitted men to live together in communities and to pursue a more sedentary way of life.
Actually, some Africans had already adopted a sedentary community life before the arrival of farming.
Making hooks from bones led to the development of a few fishing communities near present-day Kenya. As the communities along the Nile grew in size and number, society began to develop a complex urban civilization.
By 3,200 B.C. the communities along the Nile had become politically united under the first of a line of great pharaohs.
These early Egyptians undoubtedly were comprised of a racial mixture.
The ancient Greeks viewed the Egyptians as being dark in complexion, and it has been estimated that the Egyptian population at the beginning was at least one-third Negro.
It was located up the Nile from Egypt.
As the Egyptian empire grew in strength and wealth, it strove to expand its power over its neighbors.
Egypt sent several military expeditions south along the Nile to try to conquer the black people of Kush.
They failed and the Kushites, in turn, endeavored to extend their power over Egypt.
In 751 B.C., Kush invaded Egypt and, shortly thereafter, conquered it.
This occupation of Egypt lasted for over a hundred years, until both the Kushites and the Egyptians were defeated by an invading army from Assyria in 666 B.C.
At that point, the Kushites returned to the safety of their homeland. The Kushites and the Egyptians had been defeated by a superior technology.
While they were fighting with weapons made of copper and bronze, the Assyrians fought with iron.
Methods of smelting and working iron had been developed centuries before by the Hittites who lived in Asia Minor.
The use of iron spread across the Near East, becoming the basis for the Assyrian power.
After their defeat in 666 B.C., the Kushites and the Egyptians rapidly adopted the new iron technology.
The coming of the Iron Age to Africa meant the production of better weapons and tools.
Better weapons provided safety from hostile foes and protection from ferocious beasts.
Its capital, Meroe located on the upper Nile, developed into a thriving commercial and industrial city.
Archeological diggings have unearthed the remains of streets, houses, sprawling palaces, and huge piles of slag left from its iron industry.
When scholars are able to decipher the Kushitic writings much more will be known about the culture and way of life of this early black empire.
In the first century A.D. a Kushite official, whom the Bible refers to as the Ethiopian eunuch, was converted to Christianity by the apostle Philip while returning from a visit to Jerusalem.
Shortly, Christianity spread throughout the entire kingdom. When Kush was defeated by the Axumites, founders of modern Ethiopia, several smaller Nubian, Christian kingdoms survived.
Not until the sixteenth century, after almost a thousand years of pressure, did Islam gain supremacy in western Sudan.
Ethiopia, shortly after defeating Kush, also became Christianized, and survived as a African only Christian island in a Moslem sea.
There is much evidence of cultural contact between people in all parts of the continent.
When the Sahara began to dry out about 2000 B.C., the population was pushed out from there in all directions, thereby forcing the spread of both people and cultures.
Even then, the Sahara did not become a block to communication as has been thought.
There is clear evidence that trade routes continued to be used even after the Sahara became a desert.
Scholars also have found that, shortly after the Iron Age reached North Africa, iron tools began to appear throughout the entire continent, and, within few centuries, iron production was being carried on at a number of different locations.
At about the same time, sailors from the far East brought the yam and the banana to the shores of Africa.
These fruits spread rapidly from the east coast across most of the continent, becoming basic staples in the African diet.
Finally, the developments of iron tools and of iron work further increased the food supply and also provided better weapons.
This permitted increased military power and political expansion.
In recent years, archaeologists have been unearthing increasing amounts of material which contribute to our knowledge of early Africa.
West Africans tended to build their cities from nondurable materials such as wood, mud, and grass.
The area does have a rich oral tradition, including special groups of trained men dedicated to its development and maintenance.
As oral history is always open to modification and embellishment, with no means available for checking the original version, this material must be used cautiously.
Nevertheless, when employed in conjunction with other sources, it does provide a rich source of information. The earliest written records were provided by the Arabs who developed close contact with West Africa by 800 A.D.
After that, West Africans began using Arabic themselves to record their own history.
In the middle of the fifteenth century, Europeans began regular contact with West Africa, and they left a wide variety of written sources.
An Arabic map of 830 A.D. has Ghana marked on it, and other contemporary Arabic sources refer to Ghana as the land of gold.
From this time on, a thriving trade developed between Ghana and the world of Islam, including the beginnings of a slave trade.
However, this early slave trade was a two-way affair.
Al-Bakri, a contemporary Arab writer, was impressed with the display of power and affluence of the Ghanaian king.
On such occasions, the king heard the grievances of his people and passed judgment on them.
Al-Bakri also describes lavish royal banquets which included a great deal of ceremonial ritual. The power of the king, and therefore of the empire, was based on his ability to maintain law and order in his kingdom.
This provided the development of a flourishing commerce, and it was by taxing all imports and exports that the king was able to finance his government.
The key item in this financial structure was the regulation of the vast gold resources of West Africa, and it was by controlling its availability that the king was also able to manipulate its value.
However, after the eleventh century, the Ghanaian empire was continually exposed to harassment from a long series of Arabic holy wars.
Over a long period of time, the power of the king was reduced until the empire of Ghana finally collapsed.
From its ashes emerged the basis for the creation of a new and even larger empire: the empire of Mali. Mali, like Ghana, was built on gold.
While Ghana had been under attack by the Arabs from outside, various peoples from within struck for their own freedom.
The Mandinka people, who had been the middlemen in the gold trade and who had received protection from the king of Ghana, achieved their independence in 1230 A.D.
They went on to use their position in the gold trade to build an empire of their own.
The peak of their influence and power was achieved in the early fourteenth century under Mansa Kankan Musa who ruled Mali for a quarter of a century.
He extended its boundaries beyond those of Ghana to include such important trading cities as Timbuktu and Gao, encompassing an area larger than that controlled by the European monarchs of that day.
This empire also was based on its ability to provide stable government and a flourishing economy.
An Arab traveler, Ibn Batuta, shortly after Musa's death, found complete safety of travel throughout the entire empire of Mali. Mansa Musa and, for that matter, the entire ruling class of Mali had converted to Islam.
This intensified the contacts between West Africa and the Islamic world.
Although several of these kings made pilgrimages to Mecca, the most spectacular was the one by Mansa Musa in 1324.
On his way there, he made a prolonged visit to Cairo.
While there, both his generosity in giving lavish gifts of gold to its citizens and his extravagant spending poured so much gold into the Cairo market that it caused a general inflation.
It was estimated by the Arabs that his caravan included some sixty thousand people and some five hundred personal slaves.
Mansa Musa took a number of Arabic scholars and skilled artisans back to West Africa with him.
These scholars enhanced the university of Timbuktu which was already widely known as a center of Islamic studies.
Having experienced the advantages of political organization, many localities sought self-government.
In fact, Mansa Musa had overextended the empire.
A skilled ruler like himself could manipulate it, but those who followed were not adequate to the challenge.
Again, a new empire was to emerge from the ruins of the previous one. The Songhay empire was based on the strength of the important trading city of Gao.
This city won its independence from Mali as early as 1375, and, within a century, it had developed into an empire.
Songhay carried on a vigorous trade with the outside world and particularly with the Arabic countries.
The ruling class, in particular, continued to follow the religion of Islam, but it is generally believed that the masses of the population remained faithful to the more traditional West African religions based on fetishism and ancestor worship.
Two of the more powerful rulers were Suni Ali, who began his 28-year reign in 1464, and Askia Mohammed, who began his 36-year reign in 1493.
Askia Mohammed was also known as Askia the Great.
The security of Songhay was undermined when Arabs from Morocco invaded and captured the key trading city of Timbuktu in 1591.
On the contrary, a number of other small yet powerful states existed throughout the entire period.
If this had not been so, the Europeans, as they arrived in the fifteenth century, could have pillaged West Africa at will.
Instead, the Europeans were only able to establish trading stations where local kings permitted it.
With the exception of a few raiding parties which seized Africans and carried them off as slaves, most slave acquisition was done through hard bargaining and a highly systematized trading process.
The Europeans were never allowed to penetrate inland, and they found that they always had to treat the African kings and their agents as business equals.
Many of the early European visitors, in fact, were impressed by the luxury, power, trading practices, skilled crafts, and the complex social structure which they found in Africa.
Only in some parts of East Africa, where the states were unusually small, were the Portuguese able to pillage and conquer at will.
However, Europeans and Americans have come to believe, at least in their subconscious minds, that civilization can be equated with progress in science and technology.
Because the Africans lagged far behind the Europeans in the arts of war and of economic exploitation, the Europeans believed at the Africans must be uncivilized savages.
Also in a subsistence economy, there is little need for money, and most trade was done through barter.
Because there was no money, there was no wage labor.
Instead, labor was created either through a system of domestic slavery or through a complex system of reciprocal duties and obligations.
However, within the trading centers, money had come into regular use.
It usually took the form of cowrie shells, iron bars, brass rings, or other standard items of value.
Systems of banking and credit had also been developed, but even those involved in money, banking, and trade had a noncapitalist attitude towards wealth.
They had developed their own systems of weights and measures and insisted on using them.
Europeans who failed to treat the king or his agent fairly, found that the Africans simply refused to deal with them again.
Trade was always monopolized by the king, and he appointed specific merchants to deal with foreign businessmen.
West African exports included gold, ivory, hides, leather goods, cotton, peppercorn, olive oil, and cola.
While some of these items were only exported for short distances, others found their way over long distances.
West African gold, for example, was exported as far away as Asia and Northern Europe. Some English coins of the period were minted with West African gold.
West African imports included silks from Asia, swords, knives, kitchen-ware, and trinkets from the primitive industrial factories of Europe as well as horses and other items from Arabia.
Two other items of trade became all important for the future--the exportation of slaves and the importation of guns and gunpowder. West African manufacturing demonstrated a considerable amount of skill in a wide variety of crafts.
These included basket-weaving, pottery making, woodworking and iron-working.
Archeological evidence shows that West Africans were making pottery and terracotta sculpture as much as two thousand years ago.
Three-dimensional forms seem to have held a particular interest for West African artists.
During the last century, art critics have gone beyond considering this art as "primitive" and have begun to appreciate its aesthetic qualities.
In fact, in recent years, African art has had considerable influence on contemporary artists. The two forms of African art best known outside Africa are music and the dance.
African music contrasts with European music in its use of a different scale and in concentrating less on melodic development and more on the creation of complex and subtle rhythmic patterns.
Musicians used to view African music as simple and undeveloped, but now musicologists admit that African rhythms are more complex and highly developed than rhythms in European music.
Africans like to sing and to develop songs for all occasions: religious songs, work songs, and songs for leisure. African singing is also marked by the frequent use of a leader and a chorus response technique.
African dance, like its music, builds on highly complex rhythmic patterns.
It too is closely related to all parts of the African's daily life.
There are dances for social and for ritual occasions.
The most common use of the dance was as an integral part of African religious rites. African religion has usually been defined as fetish worship-the belief that specific inanimate objects are inhabited by spirits endowed with magical powers.
While this view of African religion is partly true, it obscures more than it clarifies.
The fetish is believed to have some powers of its own, but, in general, it derived them from its close association with a dead ancestor.
Behind the fetish was the religion of ancestor worship, and the fetish is better understood as a religious symbol.
Ancestor worship was also part of the African's strong family ties and his powerful kinship patterns.
Behind the realm of this fetish and ancestor worship lay another world of distant and powerful deities who had control over the elemental natural forces of the universe.
While this religion might be described as primitive, it cannot be viewed as simplistic.
It involved a series of complex ideas about fetishes, ancestors, and deities which required a high degree of intelligence. The intricacies of theology, law, medicine, and politics made it necessary to develop a complex system of oral education.
Europeans, who tended to identify knowledge with writing, had long assumed that, because there was no written language in early Africa, there could be no body of knowledge.
After the arrival of Islam, Arabic provided a written form within which West African ideas could be set down. Only recently have scholars become aware of the libraries and the many publications to be found in West Africa.
Two of these books were responsible for providing historians with detailed information about the customs and social structure of the area.
One was the Tarikh al-Fattiish, the chronicle of the seeker after knowledge, written by Mahmud Kati in the early fifteenth century.
The other was the Tarikh al-Sudan, the chronicle of the Western Sudan, written by Abd al-Rahman as-Sadi about the beginning of the seventeenth century. The society of West Africa was stratified in several different ways.
It was divided in terms of differing occupations: farmers, merchants, priests, scholars, laborers, and a wide variety of craftsmen.
The social ranking assigned to these occupation divisions varied according to the importance of each occupation. Society was also divided in terms of clans, families, and villages.
At the same time, there was a hierarchical division based on the varying degrees of political power each group exercised within its society.
Some had the power to become chiefs and rulers.
Some had the right to choose and depose rulers, and others could limit and define the rights of the rulers.
Instead, another family had the power to select the next ruler from among a large number of potential candidates within the ruling family.
If the ruler who was selected ruled unwisely and unfairly, he could also be deposed.
Here was a distinct limitation on royal absolutism. In a similar way, there were limitations on the centralization of economic power.
While valuable land in Europe had been captured and controlled by private ownership and was the possession of a powerful minority, land in West Africa still belonged to the community.
Those using the land who did not fulfill their obligations to the community by utilizing it properly and wisely, could have the land taken away from them.
It might then be given to someone else.
Both in economics and in politics, historical custom and precedent has limited minority power and has protected the welfare of the community.
Nevertheless, community power and wealth has come to be divided into two major divisions: the rich and powerful few and the poor and powerless majority.
The gigantic armies of Ghana had been conscripted from the common citizenry.
Horses were expensive and could only be used efficiently by men who were expert riders and who knew how use a horse in a combat situation.
Even more, with the arrival the Europeans in the fifteenth century, West Africa was introduced to guns and gunpowder.
These, too, were expensive required trained soldiers to make good use of them. While the new military technology had increased the ruler's freedom from popular control, it made him increasingly dependent on and subject to European interests.
To the contrary, both institutions had a very long history.
A two-way slave trade had existed between the West Africans and the Arabs for centuries. In view of the social structure of both societies, sociologists believe that the Arabs could make use of more slaves than could the West Africans.
Therefore, West Africa probably exported more slaves than it imported. Slaves, besides being common laborers, were often men of considerable skill and learning, Slavery was not a badge of human inferiority.
Thus, the first slaves procured by the Europeans from Africa were displayed as curiosities and as proof of affluence.
Before long, a vigorous trade opened up between the Portuguese and the West Africans.
Slaves were only one of a great variety of exports, and guns were only one of a large variety of imports.
One of the ways in which the slave trade came to cripple the West African economy was that slaves became almost the exclusive African export.
The more the Africans sought to fulfill the Europeans' thirst for slaves, the more they needed guns with which to procure slaves, and to protect themselves from being captured and sold into slavery.
Those who wanted to eliminate or reduce the trade in slaves and who preferred to develop other aspects of a trading economy, found themselves helpless.
A ruler who would not provide the Europeans with the slaves they desired was then bypassed by all the European traders.
Besides losing the revenue from this trade, his own military position was weakened.
Any ruler who did not trade slaves for guns could not have guns.
Without guns, he would have difficulty in protecting himself and his people.
Any ruler or people who could not provide adequate self-defense could be captured and sold into slavery.
Once begun, the Africans found themselves enmeshed in a vicious system from which there seemed to be no escape.
The only possibility for escape would have been the development of some kind of African coalition, but each petty ruler as too concerned with his own power to be able to contemplate federated activity.
European greed fed African greed, and vice a versa. In the beginning, African slaves were carried back to Portugal and other parts of Europe to be used as exotic domestic servants.
In some cases, they were also used as farm laborers.
The enclosure system was under way, changing farming techniques, and it had created a labor surplus.
However, at the same time, emerging capitalism financed explorations in Africa, Asia, and the western hemisphere.
African sailors were involved in most of these explorations including Columbus's voyage in 1492.
New World gold provided the economic basis for even more rapid European expansion.
When the Spaniards began to use slaves in their American colonies, the Dutch, French, and British were only too eager to provide the transportation.
Before long, they too had colonies and slaves of their own. The triangular trade between Europe, Africa, and the New World, was one of the most lucrative aspects of the mercantile economy.
Mercantilism sought to keep each country economically self-sufficient.
These were shipped to the coast of West Africa and unloaded at a trading station.
At key points along the coast, the European nations had made treaties with the local rulers allowing them to set up trading stations and slave factories.
At this point, the European traders entered into hard bargaining sessions with the representatives of the local ruler in which the manufactured goods from Europe, especially guns, were traded for African slaves.
Then the ships were loaded with tobacco, sugar, and other West Indian produce and returned to Europe for still another sale and another profit.
At every point along the route, large sums of money were made.
A profit of at east one hundred percent was expected.
Vast wealth was obtained through the slave trade, and this money was reinvested in the developing industrial revolution.
Thereby the Africans unwittingly helped to finance the European industrial revolution which widened the technological gap between Africa and Europe. The African slave was sometimes a criminal, but, more often than not, he was captured in battle.
As the slave trade grew and with it the need for more slaves, the number of these battles increased.
Clearly, many battles were being fought solely for the purpose of acquiring slaves who could then be sold to the European traders.
The inspection was humiliating and degrading procedure. Men, women, and children usually appeared stark naked and underwent the close scrutiny of the agent and sometimes a physician.
After the trauma of capture and the shame of inspection, the slaves were regimented into crowded quarters at the trading station or "factory" to wait for the next shipment to leave.
They had to be supervised very closely as many tried to escape and others tried to commit suicide. When a ship was ready to sail, the slaves were chained together and marched down to the shore.
There they were bundled into large canoes and were paddled through the crashing breakers to where the slave ship was waiting.
Slaves have told how they began the voyage in trepidation, being frightened by the sight of the "white devils" who, they had heard, liked to eat Africans.
Then the long voyage commenced.
Conditions here were even more crowded than at the "factory.
Slaves were generally kept below deck with no sunshine or fresh air.
They were crowded so close together that there was never any standing room and often not even sitting room. Again, they had to be supervised closely as many tried to starve themselves to death or to jump overboard.
However, the greatest loss of slave property was due to disease, The ship's captain feared that disease would whittle away his profits, and, even more, he worried that it would attack him and his crew.
Statistics concerning the slave trade are often inaccurate or missing.
However, it is generally agreed that at least fifteen million Africans, and perhaps many more, became slaves in the New World.
About nine hundred thousand were brought in the sixteenth century, three million in the seventeenth century, seven million in the eighteenth century, and another four million in the nineteenth century. The mortality rate among these new slaves ran very high.
It is estimated that some five percent died in Africa on the way to the coast, another thirteen percent in transit to the West Indies, and still another thirty percent during the three-month seasoning period in the West Indies.
Most slaves were captured in the course of warfare, and many more Africans were killed in the course of this combat.
The total number of deaths, then, ran much higher than those killed en route.
Many Africans became casualty statistics, directly or indirectly, because of the slave trade.
Profits often ran as high as two or three hundred percent, and were an important part of the European economy.
However, when she was confronted with a copy of his profit ledger, her moral indignation softened, and she quickly became one of the members of the corporation.
Some merchants were hit hard by the risks accompanying the slave trade and suffered financial disaster.
The humanitarian outcry against both the slave trade and slavery which occurred at the end of the eighteenth century and swelled in the early nineteenth century, became a significant force as the need for slave labor diminished.
In the beginning, as previously noted, the Europeans were not powerful enough to seize slaves at will or to invade the African kingdoms.
But the industrial revolution had immeasurably widened the power gap between Europe and Africa.
Without troubling to consult with any Africans, they drew lines on a map of Africa dividing it among themselves.
It took only a very few years for a map drawing to become a physical reality.
To the Europeans who had settled in America the Colonies were their new home and they strove to develop a prosperous and secure society in which to live and raise their families.
They hesitated to bring their slaves directly from Africa as they believed that Africans were brutal, barbaric savages who would present a real danger to the safety and security of their new homes.
Instead, they preferred to purchase slaves who had already been tested and broken. In contrast to this, Europeans who had gone to the Caribbean islands did not consider the New World as their new home.
The island plantations were to be exploited to provide the wealth with with which their owners could return to Europe and live like gentlemen.
Many of them did not bring their families to the islands, or, when they did, their stay was a temporary one.
Therefore, they were more willing than were the Americans to purchase slaves directly from Africa.
Moreover, because their sole interest in the islands was economic profit, they could make a double profit by selling their seasoned slaves as well as selling their plantation produce.
While the Africans' stay in the Caribbean, obviously, was not part of their African heritage, it was part of the experience which they brought with them to the Colonies.
The Indians who lived on the islands were few in number and had had no experience in plantation agriculture.
The advantage of African slaves over indentured servants was that they could be purchased outright for life.
Moreover, the Africans had no contacts in the European capitals through which they could bring pressure to bear against the abuses of the plantation masters.
In fact, African slaves really had no rights which the master was obliged to respect.
The supply of African labor seemed to be endless, and many masters found it cheaper to overwork a slave and to replace him when he died, rather than take care of him while he lived.
In short, the plantation experience was a brutalizing one. In the beginning, the major plantation crop had been tobacco, It could be grown efficiently on small plantations of twenty or thirty acres.
The Caribbean islands were hit by a severe economic depression.
The Dutch came with a solution.
They had previously conquered parts of northern Brazil from the Portuguese, and there they had learned the techniques of plantation sugar production.
It could only be carried on efficiently with plantations of two or three hundred acres, and it required large numbers of unskilled laborers both to plant and harvest the crop and to refine the sugar.
The Dutch, then, brought sugar cane to the West Indies.
The small tobacco farmers did not have the capital to develop the large sugar plantations.
Some of them went into other occupations, but most of them returned to Europe.
The new labor needs were filled by a gigantic increase in the importation of African slaves.
The ratio of whites to blacks within the islands changed markedly within a matter of one or two decades.
The white population consisted of a handful of exceedingly wealthy plantation owners and another handful of white plantation managers.
Many of the slaves soon learned new skills associated with sugar manufacturing, thus reducing the need for white labor even further.
Brute force was the only answer.
The European governments had tried to solve the problem by requiring the plantation owners to hire a specified number of white workers.
However, many owners found it cheaper to pay the fine than to comply with this regulation. In 1667, the British Parliament passed a series of black codes intended to control the slaves in the Caribbean colonies.
Other colonial powers followed their example.
The law stated that a slave could not be away from the plantation on a Sunday and that he was not permitted to carry any weapons.
It also specified that, if he were to strike a Christian, he could be whipped.
If he did it a second time, he could be branded on the face.
One of the results of this was the development of an ever-growing class of mulattoes.
More and more of them were granted their freedom.
While these freedmen did not receive equal treatment with the whites, they were careful to preserve the advantages they held over the slaves.
Many of them served in the militia to help keep the slaves under control.
However, the threat of slave revolts continued.
The greater the possibility of success, the greater the probability that slaves would take the risk of starting a revolt.
All of the islands in the West Indies had a history of slave rebellion. Undoubtedly, the most outstanding slave revolt in the western hemisphere took place in Haiti.
During the French revolution, concepts of the rights of man spread from France to her colonies.
In Haiti, the free mulattoes petitioned the French revolutionary government for their rights.
The Assembly granted their request.
However, the French aristocrats in Haiti refused to follow the directives of the Assembly.
At this point, two free mulattoes, Vincent Oge and Jean Baptiste Chavannes, both of whom had received an education in Paris, led a mulatto rebellion.
The Haitian aristocrats quickly and brutally suppressed it. By this time, however, the concepts of the rights of man had spread to the slave class.
In 1791, under the leadership of Toussaint l'Ouverture, the slaves began a long and bloody revolt of their own.
Slaves flocked to Toussaint's support by the thousands until he had an army much larger than any that had fought in the American revolution, This revolt became entangled with the French revolution and the European wars connected with it.
Besides fighting the French, Toussaint had to face both British and Spanish armies.
None of them was able to suppress the revolt and to overthrow the republic which had been established in Haiti. After Napoleon came to power in France, he sent a gigantic expedition under Leclerc to reestablish French authority in Haiti.
While he claimed to stand for the principles of the revolution, Napoleon's real interest in Haiti was to make it into a base from which to rebuild a French empire in the western hemisphere.
Finally, Napoleon was forced to withdraw from the struggle.
One of the results of his failure to suppress the slave revolt in Haiti was his abandonment of his New World dreams and his willingness to sell Louisiana to the United States.
Unfortunately, this meant new areas for the expansion of the plantation economy and slavery.
In other words, the Haitian revolution was responsible for giving new life to the institution of slavery inside America. American plantation owners were faced with a dilemma.
The Louisiana Purchase, resulting from the revolution in Haiti, greatly expanded the possibilities of plantation agriculture.
This meant a greater need for slave labor.
However, they were not sure from which source to purchase these slaves.
They hesitated to bring new slaves directly from Africa. They were also loath to bring seasoned slaves from the Caribbean.
Events in Haiti had demonstrated that these Caribbean slaves might not be as docile as previously had been believed.
Certainly, Americans did not want repetition of the bloody Haitian revolt within their own borders.
Sometimes slaves were treated cruelly; at other times with kindness.
They were more often used as a sign of affluence, a way of displaying one's wealth and of enjoying luxury, rather than as the means for the systematic accumulation of wealth.
Previously, slavery had existed in hierarchical societies in which the slave was at the bottom of a social ladder, the most inferior in a society of unequals.
While each society normally preferred to choose its slaves from alien people, it did not limit its selection exclusively to the members of any one race.
Slave inferiority did not lead necessarily to racial inferiority.
In contrast to this, slavery in America was set apart by three characteristics: capitalism, individualism, and racism. Capitalism increased the degree of dehumanization and depersonalization implicit in the institution of slavery.
While it had been normal in other forms of slavery for the slave to be legally defined as a thing, a piece of property, in America he also became a form of capital.
Nevertheless, their capitalistic mentality firmly fixed their eyes on minimizing expenses and maximizing profits.
When the first twenty Africans reached Virginia in 1619, the colony was comprised of small plantations dependent on free white labor.
While some historians believe that these immigrants were held in slavery from the beginning, most think they were given the status of indentured servants.
Rumors of deplorable working conditions and of indefinite servitude were reaching England and discouraging the flow of free white labor.
To counter this, a series of acts were passed which legally established the rights of white labor, but they did nothing to improve the status of the African.
In fact, their passage pushed them relentlessly towards the status of slave. The price of tobacco declined sharply in the 1660s and drove the small white farmer to the wall.
Only those with enough capital to engage in large-scale operations could continue to make a profit.
The African slaves provided the large, dependable, and permanent supply of labor which these plantations required.
The small white planter and the free white laborer found the road to economic success had become much more difficult.
To be a successful planter meant that he had to begin with substantial capital investments.
Capitalist agriculture substantially altered the social structure of the colony.
On one hand, it created a small class of rich and powerful white planters.
On the other, it victimized the small white planters, or white laborers, and the ever-growing mass of African slaves. The second unique factor in American slavery was the growth of individualism.
While this democratic spirit attracted many European immigrants, it only served to increase the burden of slavery for the African.
Instead of being at the bottom of the social ladder, the slave in America was an inferior among equals.
A society which represented itself as recognizing individual worth and providing room for the development of talent, rigidly organized the entire life of the slave and gave him little opportunity to develop his skills.
In America, a person's worth became identified with economic achievement.
Instead of springing from a belief in abstract human rights, they were an accumulation of concrete legal and political privileges which had developed since Magna Charta.
Viewing it in this light, it may have been easier for the white colonists to insist on their rights while denying them to the slaves.
Nevertheless, the existence of slavery in the midst of a society believing in individualism increased its dehumanizing effects. The third characteristic which set American slavery apart was its racial basis.
In America, with only a few early and insignificant exceptions, all slaves were Africans, and almost all Africans were slaves.
This placed the label of inferiority on black skin and on African culture.
In other societies, it had been possible for a slave who obtained his freedom to take his place in his society with relative ease.
In America, however, when a slave became free, he was still obviously an African.
The taint of inferiority clung to him. Not only did white America become convinced of white superiority and black inferiority, but it strove to impose these racial beliefs on the Africans themselves.
At every point this education was built on the belief in white superiority and black inferiority.
Besides teaching the slave to despise his own history and culture, the master strove to inculcate his own value system into the African's outlook.
The white man's belief in the African's inferiority paralleled African self hate. Slavery has always been an evil institution, and being a slave has always been undesirable.
However, the slave in America was systematically exploited for the accumulation of wealth.
Being a slave in a democracy, he was put outside of the bounds of society.
Finally, because his slavery was racially defined, his plight was incurable.
Although both institutions were geared to the needs of capitalistic agriculture, the rights and privileges of the South American planter were restricted and challenged at many points by the traditional powers the Crown and the Church.
On one hand, capitalism, unimpeded by other powerful institutions, created a closed slave system which regimented the totality of the slave's life.
Although it eventually emerged secure, the monarchy managed to survive only by making its peace with the emerging commercial and industrial forces.
These same crises undermined the authority of the Church as a powerful institution in society.
The nonconformist sects were the stronghold of the merchant class and spread rapidly in the American colonies.
There, instead of being a check on the commercial spirit, the Church itself had become dominated by the middle class.
Equally important is the fact that in colonial America the level of religious life was very low.
Most colonists, with the exception of the original founders who had fled religious persecution, did not come for religious freedom but for economic advancement.
When some Virginians at the end of the seventeenth century, petitioned the government to build a college for the training of ministers, they were told to forget about the cure of souls and instead to cure tobacco.
The result was that the planter class, unchallenged by any other powerful institutions, was free to shape a slave system to meet its labor needs.
In any conflict which arose between personality rights and property rights the property rights of the master were always protected. In contrast, the South American planter would not have such a free hand in shaping his own affairs.
The Renaissance and Reformation had not made the same impact on Spain and Portugal as they did on the rest of Western Europe.
Consequently, secularization and commercialization had not progressed as far in eroding the traditional power and prestige of the Crown and the Church.
Roman law as well as the Church fathers had concerned themselves with it, and these concepts had been incorporated into Spanish and Portuguese law.
Also, slaves continued to exist in both countries down to modern times.
Therefore, when Portugal began importing slaves from West Africa in the fifteenth century, the institution of slavery was already in existence.
Before long, significant numbers of African slaves were to be found in both Portugal and Spain.
Instead of permitting considerable local autonomy as the British did, the Spanish Council of the Indies in Madrid assumed a stance of illiberal, paternal, bureaucratic control.
From the point of view of the colonial capitalists, the cumbersome royal bureaucracy was always involved in troublesome meddling which impeded their progress.
As part of the careful management of its colonies, the Crown strove to control the operation of the slave trade.
Similarly, it was concerned with the treatment of the African slaves within the colonies.
Besides being concerned with influencing individual behavior, the Church insisted that it was a social institution with the right to interfere in matters relating to public morals.
In fact, it was through this role that the Church was able to exercise its worldly powers.
While condemning slavery as an evil and warning that it endangered those who participated in it, the Church found it expedient to accept slavery as a labor system.
However, it insisted that the African slaves must be Christianized.
Missionaries were sent to the trading stations on the African coast where the captives were baptized and catechized.
The Church feared that the purity of the faith might be undermined by the infusion of pagan influences.
Then, when a slave ship reached the New World, a friar boarded the ship and examined the slaves to see that the requirements had been met.
Children of slave mothers were slaves, and children of free mothers were free regardless of the status of the father.
Inherited lifetime slavery was the norm. Manumission--granting freedom--was infrequent in British North America. Occasionally, masters who had fathered slave children would later give them their freedom.
A few other slaves were able to purchase their own freedom although, strictly speaking, this was a legal impossibility.
The slave was not able to own property according to the law, and this meant that the money with which he purchased his freedom had always belonged to his master.
Obviously, he could only do this with his master's fullest cooperation. In South America, however, manumission was much more frequent.
He also had the right to demand that his master or the courts set a fixed price for his purchase which he could then pay over a period of years.
Sundays and holidays were for the slave to use as he saw fit, and, in some cases, he was also guaranteed a couple of hours every day for his own use.
During this time he could sell his services and save the proceeds.
The law also stated that parents of ten or more children were to be set free.
Slaves were property, and therefore could not enter into contracts including contracts of marriage.
Jurists also noted that to prevent the sale of separate members of a family would lower the sale price, and this was to tamper with a man's property.
Therefore, property rights had to be placed above marriage rights.
In contrast, in South America the Church insisted that slave unions be brought within the sacrament of marriage.
The Church also strove to limit promiscuous relationships between slaves as well as between masters and slaves, and it encouraged marriage instead of informal mating.
Crimes comitted by a slave were prosecuted by the court, and, if a slave was murdered, this case was prosecuted by the court as if the victim had been a free man.
The law also made a more concerted attempt to protect the slave against mistreatment by his master.
A certain type of state lawyer was an official protector of the slaves; he received regular reports on slave conditions from priests as well as from special investigative officials who had been appointed by the state for this purpose.
Mistreatment could lead both to the freedom of the slave and to the imprisoning of the master.
The law had devised an ingenious system whereby the fine was divided equally between the judge, the informer, and the state treasury. Finally, the slave in North America could not own property and had absolutely no civil rights.
The law clearly stated that he could neither own, inherit, or will property nor engage in buying and selling except at the pleasure of his master.
South American masters often evaded the law and would be exceedingly brutal, and North American masters were often much more lenient than the law required.
Conditions moreover, were usually more severe in South America, and this fact may have worsened the actual material situation of South American slave.
Nevertheless, in North America the slave was consistently treated as a "thing.
In South America there was some attempt to treat him as a man.
Scholars have become engaged in the comparative examination of differing slave systems such as those of North and South America.
Elkins has begun an inquiry into the impact of a slave system in forming the individual character of the slaves within that system.
Because some of those who experienced them were social scientists trained in the skills of observation and analysis, they provide a basis for insights into the way in which a particular social system can influence mass character.
While there is also much literature about American slavery written both by slaves and masters, none of it was written from the viewpoint of modern social sciences.
However, Elkins postulates that a slave type must have existed as the result of the attempt to control mass behavior, and he believes that this type probably bore a marked resemblance to the literary stereotype of "Sambo.
Studying concentration camps and their impact on personality provides a tool for new insights into the working of slavery, but, warns Elkins, the comparison can only be used for limited purposes.
He was a child figure, often demonstrating infantile silliness and exaggeration, exasperating but lovable and, above all, utterly dependent on and attached to his master.
The master explained this behavior as the result of the slave's race or of his primitive African culture. While assuming that many slaves did approximate the character of "Sambo," Elkins absolutely rejects any racial or cultural explanation.
Modern African studies have not led to any evidence of a "Sambo" type in Africa. Similarly, the literature of South America does not contain any figure comparable to him.
Apparently, "Sambo" was not merely the result of slavery, but he was the result of the unique form of slavery which developed in North America.
Unrestricted in his powers by institutions such as the crown and the Church, the American slave master had gained total control of his slave property.
In a desire to maximize the profits of his investment, he strove to develop the perfect slave.
Although the slave might endeavor to conform externally while maintaining his inner integrity, eventually his performance as an ideal slave must have affected the shape of his personality.
Childlike action extended beyond obedience to the guards and showed that a basic character transformation had occurred.
Previous social-psychological theory stressed the ways in which an individual's personality was shaped during his earliest childhood years and emphasized the tenacity with which these early traits resisted attempt at alteration.
Personality theory was not adequate to what occurred in the camps. The concentration camp experience began with what has become labeled as shock procurement.
As terror was one of the many tools of the system, surprise late-night arrests were the favorite technique.
Camp inmates generally agreed that the train ride to the camp was the point at which they experienced the first brutal torture.
Then, each was given a tag and a number.
These two events were calculated to strip away one's identity and to reduce the individual to an item within an impersonal system. One's sense of personhood was further undermined by the fact that there was never any privacy.
The individual had lost both his identity and his power.
Everything was done to him or for him, but nothing was ever done by him.
The guards had the power to dispense food, clothing, shelter, punishment, and even death Prisoners had to request permission to use the sanitary facilities, and permission was not always forthcoming.
A childish humor and infantile giggling were common.
Boasting and lying were widely practiced.
Patterns of hero worship emerged, and the guards became the heroes.
The prisoners came to accept their values including their German nationalism and anti-Semitism. Some even altered their uniforms to resemble those of the guards, and they slavishly followed orders beyond necessity.
He too underwent a kind of shock procurement. Although millions of men became slaves, the event was unique to each man. Usually, he had been captured in the course of warfare which, in itself, was a humiliation.
After being chained together and marched to the coast, his horror must have increased when he realized that he was being sold to Europeans.
It was widely believed by Africans that white men were cannibals.
At the coastal station, he also had to endure the humiliation of a naked inspection by a physician.
This was followed by a lengthy transoceanic trip which must have exceeded the horrors of the train ride to the concentration camp.
The crowded unsanitary conditions in the slave ships were at least as bad as those in the cattle cars, and the Africans also were beaten and harassed to keep them docile. Moreover, the trip itself was much rougher and longer.
After undergoing another inspection, the African was purchased and had to face lifetime of bondage in an alien environment.
He was stripped of identity, given a new name, and he was taught to envision himself and his African heritage as inferior and barbaric.
The White master insisted on total obedience and created a situation of utter dependence.
He supplied food, clothing, shelter, discipline, and he was in a position to control the slave's friends and mating.
The "Sambo" of literature mirrored reality, this life of dependency created infantile characteristics in many of the slaves and taught them to reject their past while adopting the values of their masters.
The American slave system, besides exploiting the Africans labor, possessed and violated his person. Three schools of mass behavior have been suggested as explanations: Freudian psychology, the interpersonal theories of Henry Stack Sullivan, and role psychology.
Freudian psychology has put total emphases on early childhood experiences and is the least suited for this purpose.
This would account for the childlike behavior of both "Sambo" and the camp inmates.
Those responsible for the physical and emotional security of an individual are his "significant others.
For a child these are his parents.
As he matures, the number of "significant others" in one's experience increases.
This permits one to make decisions of one's own and to develop some individuality. However, the child has already internalized the estimations and expectations of his parents, and this tends to shape his personality for rest of his life.
Still, acquiring new "significant others" as adult can be important in reshaping the adult personality.
Both the American slaves and the camp prisoners were thrust into situations in which they had a new single "significant other.
In role psychology the individual and society can be compared to the actor and the theater.
Society provides the individual with a number of roles, and the individual's behavior is his performance, the way in which he plays them. Normally, each individual plays a number of roles simultaneously.
While some are pervasive and extensive in scope, others are limited and transitory, The role of man or woman is extensive, but that of customer or student is transitory.
Society also endows some roles with considerable clarity, while leaving others open to individual interpretation, The roles people play and the way in which they play them determine personality.
Within American slavery as well as within the German concentration camps, the number of roles available were severely limited, and both the slave master and the camp guard defined them very clearly.
Both demanded a precise and careful performance.
There were those whose performance was faultless in playing their roles.
While the concentration camp guard guaranteed its performance through terror and torture, the slave master usually used more subtle means.
Besides punishment for missed cues, masters displayed considerable fondness for slaves who played their part well.
The technique has provided important insights into the plight of the slave as the victim of a dehumanizing system, but it tends to obscure the active participation of Africans in American life.
Further, it is a crude generalization which, in fact, included many types within it.
While most slaves were plantation field hands, there were many whose lives followed different lines and for whom slavery was a very different experience.
Some slaves departed sharply enough from the "Sambo" image to become leaders in insurrections.
Many scholars, including Elkins, believe that the attempt to discover Africanisms in America by researchers such as Melville J.
Herskovits has led to trivial and insignificant results.
This belief is reinforced by the example of the German concentration camps.
There, people from wide variety of social and educational backgrounds reacted in highly similar ways.
Apparently the individual had been detached from his prior life, and his reactions to the camp were shaped in standardized manner.
Similarly, it is argued, the slave was stripped of his heritage, so that none of his African background could influence his life in America.
His personality and behavior were shaped exclusively by the unique form of American slavery. However, if we apply the experiences gained in the Chinese prisoner-of-war camps during the Korean War, some doubts on this point can be raised.
The morale of the American prisoners was easily broken, and each one strove to look out for himself even at expense of his comrade's life.
In contrast, the Turks maintained military discipline and group solidarity.
This evidence would seem indicate that, while individual differences were insignificant, cultural differences did influence adjustment to the camp situation. There are also grounds to believe that different value systems influenced the way in which contrasting cultures adjusted to slavery.
While the African made the adjustment successfully, the American Indian, when he was enslaved, did not.
The African's agricultural labor had contained many similarities to the work required on the plantation, but the Indian, accustomed to a migratory hunting existence, was totally unprepared for plantation slavery.
Perhaps, besides influencing his life as a slave, his African background may have found its way into other aspects of American society.
However, it would seem that because the African came to believe in his own inferiority, there must have been very little conscious attempt to keep his culture alive.
Certainly, the recent Black Power movement, which intended to revive pride in race and in the past, bears eloquent testimony to the degree to which any conscious link with the African past had been suppressed.
Perhaps the picture of the childlike slave is also a reverse image of the sober, patronizing white master whose life was rooted in austerity.
While Negro spirituals were not imported directly from Africa, they were more than an attempt to copy the master's music.
They represent highly complex fusion of African and European music, of African and European religion, and of African and European emotion.
Blues and jazz, which emerged at a later date, represent a similar creative tension.
They clearly evolve from the experience of the African in America and include in them elements which can be traced directly to Africa.
Jazz is now viewed throughout the world as American music.
It demonstrates the fact that the African immigrant was not totally detached from his heritage and that he has made significant contributions to American culture.
There was no hope of his returning to Africa, and there was no realistic expectation that the situation would be significantly altered.
The hopelessness of his plight created a deep sense of apathy. However, even this acceptance of his master's values may have reflected African influences.
The majority of them were herded into large work gangs, supervised by overseers, and carefully directed in the accomplishment of whatever task was necessary for that day.
Others were regularly assigned to a specific task without constant supervision and were held responsible for its completion.
In this way it was possible for them to develop some sense of initiative.
Masters who could not fully utilize the skills of such a craftsman rented their property to their neighbors.
In some cases, master permitted the slave to be responsible for hiring himself out and allowed him to keep some of the profits.
The variety of experiences permitted within slavery allowed significant variations in the types of slaves who emerged. Even apparently submissive slaves developed techniques of passive resistance.
The laziness, stealing, lying, and faked illnesses, which were usually attributed to the slave's childlike behavior, may have been deliberate ways of opposing the system.
Masters complained that many of their slaves were chronic shirkers.
When slaves dragged their feet while working, it was seen as evidence of their inferiority.
When white union workers behave similarly, it is labeled a slowdown. Other slaves appear to have indulged in deliberate mischief, trampling down crops, breaking tools, and abusing livestock.
A southern physician, Dr. Cartwright, concluded that this behavior was symptomatic of a mental disease peculiar to Africans.
He labeled the disease Dysaethesia Aethiopica and insisted that masters were wrong in thinking that it was merely rascality.
He also concluded that the slave's chronic tendency to run away was in reality the symptom of yet another African disease, Drapetomania, which he believed would eventually be medically cured. Finally, some slaves engaged in active resistance.
Most of the slave insurrections in America were very small, and most were unsuccessful. The three best known insurrections were those led by Gabriel Prosser, Denmark Vesey, and Nat Turner.
These revolts will be treated more fully in the next chapter. The masters consistently refused to see examples of passive or active resistance as signs of manhood.
Lying and stealing were never interpreted as passive resistance, but were always attributed to an inferior savage heritage, as was slave violence.
Prosser, Vesey, and Turner, instead of being numbered among the world's heroes fighting for the freedom of their people, were usually represented as something closer to savages, criminals, or psychopaths.
The British author was only one of many Europeans who thought it strange that a nation run by slave owners should be so noisily demanding its own freedom.
This same bitter inconsistency was embodied in the death of Crispus Attucks.
A mulatto slave who had run away from his Massachusetts master in 1750, he spent the next twenty years working as a seaman and living in constant fear of capture and punishment.
In 1770, he, with four others, was killed in the Boston Massacre.
Ironically, the first man to die in the Colonial fight for freedom was both an Afro-American and a runaway slave.
In his book Some Considerations on the Keeping of Negroes, John Woolman contended that no one had the right to own another human being.
To contend for liberty," John Jay wrote, "and to deny that blessing to others involves an inconsistency not to be excused.
James Otis maintained that the same arguments which were used to defend the rights of the colonists against Britain could be used with at least equal force against the colonists by their slaves.
Perhaps the most radical statement was made by the Reverend Isaac Skillman in 1773.
In an early draft of the Declaration of Independence, the British king was attacked for his in involvement in the slave trade, and he was charged with going against human nature by violating the sacred rights of life and liberty.
This seeming ambivalence concerning the future of slavery on the part of the Continental Congress left Samuel Johnson's ironic question about American hypocrisy unanswered.
From a logical point of view, the Declaration of Independence either affirmed the freedom of the African immigrant, or it denied his humanity.
In 1775 he offered to grant freedom to any slave who ran away from his master and joined the British army.
Earlier that year, in spite of the fact that both slaves and free men had served at Lexington and Concord, the colonists had shown an increasing reluctance to have any blacks serving in their Army.
The Council of War, under Washington's leadership, had unanimously rejected the enlistment of slaves and, by a large majority, it had opposed their recruitment altogether.
In most cases, slaves were granted their freedom at the end of their military service.
During the war some five thousand blacks served in the Continental Army with the vast majority coming from the North. In contrast to later practice, during the Revolution the armed services were largely integrated with only a few segregated units.
While the vast majority of Afro-American troops fighting in the Revolutionary War will always remain anonymous, there were several who achieved distinction and made their mark in history.
Both Prince Whipple and Oliver Cromwell crossed the Delaware with Washington on Christmas Day in 1776.
Lemuel Haynes, later a pastor of a white church, served at the Battle of Ticonderoga.
According to many reports, Peter Salem killed the British major, John Pitcairn, at the Battle of Bunker Hill. Gradually, the colonies were split into two sections by differing attitudes towards slavery.
In 1780 the Pennsylvania Legislature passed a law providing for the gradual abolition of slavery.
The Preamble to the legislation argued that, considering that America had gone to war for its own freedom, it should share that blessing with those who were being subjected to a similar state of bondage in its midst.
Three years later the Massachusetts Supreme Court decided that slavery was contrary to that state's constitution and that it violated the natural rights of man. Connecticut, Rhode Island, New Jersey, and New York all passed laws providing for gradual emancipation.
Although the liberal philosophy of the revolution did lead these states to end slavery, most Northern citizens were not genuinely convinced that natural law had conferred full equality on their Afro-American neighbors.
If anything, the passage of stiffer black codes increased the rights of the masters while diminishing those of slaves and freedmen.
Some Southern states had qualms about the advisability of continuing the slave trade, but this did not mean that they had doubts about the value of slavery.
The Federal Government finally took action to terminate the slave trade in 1807, but a vigorous, illegal trade continued until the Civil War.
Most of the antislavery forces concluded that it was necessary to put the Union above abolition. While the Constitution did not specifically mention slavery, it did legally recognize the institution in three places.
First, there was a heated debate over the means of calculating representation to the House. Southern spokesmen wanted as many delegates as possible and preferred that slaves be counted.
Northerners, wanting to restrict Southern representation, insisted that slaves not be counted.
Some of them pointed out that it was an insult to whites to be put on an equal footing with slaves.
The compromise which was framed in Article I, Section 2, was that a slave should be counted as three-fifths of a man. Second, the antislavery elements tried to make their stand at the convention by attacking the slave trade.
However, while many Southern states were opposed to the trade, the issue became entangled in power politics.
South Carolina, which had few slaves, believed that the termination of the slave trade would force up the price of slaves and place her at a severe disadvantage in comparison with Virginia which already had a large slave supply.
It stated that a slave who ran away and reached a free state, did not thereby obtain his freedom.
Instead, that state was required, at the master's request, to seize and return him. In fact, the delegates to the Constitutional Convention were afraid that the revolutionary ideology of freedom and equality had unwisely and unintentionally unleashed a social revolution.
Southern planters envisioned the end of slavery on which their wealth was based.
Northern capitalists were opposed to the liberal and democratic land laws which the people were demanding.
The economic leaders in both sections of the country believed that there was a need to protect property rights against these new revolutionary human rights.
Herbert Aptheker has recorded over hundred insurrections. Although most slave revolts in America were small and ineffective, there were three in particular which chilled Southern hearts.
These were led by Gabriel Prosser, Denmark Vesey, and Nat Turner and occurred within the short span between 1800 and 1831.
Toussaint l'Ouverture in Haiti had previously demonstrated that slaves could be victorious over large European armies, and the American colonists had taught by their example in the American Revolution that violence in the service of freedom was justifiable.
The gradual abolition of slavery which was occurring in the Northern states gave hope that the institution in America might be terminated altogether.
However, the slaves saw little reason to believe that their Southern masters would follow the example of the Northerners in abolishing slavery.
Many of the slaves came to accept that if the institution was to be destroyed, it would have to be done by the slaves themselves. In August, 1800, Gabriel Prosser led a slave attack on Richmond, Virginia.
If the citizens would not surrender, the rebels planned to kill all of the whites with the exception of Quakers, Methodists, and Frenchman.
Apparently, Prosser and his followers shared a deep distrust of most white men.
When they had gathered a large supply of guns and powder, and taken over the state's treasury, the rebels calculated, they would be able to hold out for several weeks.
This forced a delay of several days.
In the meantime, two slaves betrayed the plot, and the government took swift action.
Thirty-five of the participants, including Prosser, were executed.
As the leaders refused to divulge any details of their plans, the exact number involved in the plot remains unknown. However, rumor had it that somewhere between two thousand and fifty thousand slaves were connected with the conspiracy.
During the following years he worked as a carpenter.
In his concern over the plight of his slave brethren, he formed a plan for an insurrection which would bring them their freedom.
He and other freedmen collected two hundred pike heads and bayonets as well as three hundred daggers to use in the revolt, but, before the plans could be put into motion in 1882, a slave informed on them.
This time it was rumored that there had been some nine thousand involved in the plot.
Nat Turner, its leader, besides being a skilled carpenter, was a literate, mystical preacher.
He had discovered particular relevance in the prophets of the Old Testament.
Besides identifying with the slave experience of the Israelites, Turner and other slaves felt that the social righteousness which the prophets preached related directly to their situation.
The picture of the Lord exercising vengeance against the oppressors gave them hope and inspiration.
In the following months he collected a small band of followers, and in August they went into action.
Unlike Prosser and Vesey, he began with only a very small band which lessened his chance of betrayal.
As they moved from farm to farm, slaughtering the white inhabitants, they were joined by many of the slaves who were freed in the process.
However, word of the massacre spread.
At one farm, they were met by armed resistance.
Slaves as well as masters fought fiercely to stop the attack.
Some of Turner's men were killed and wounded, and the planned drive towards Jerusalem was thrown off stride.
The Turner massacre was universally depicted as the work of savages and brutes, not of men. Vigilance was tightened, and new laws controlling the slaves were passed throughout the South.
Both the violence of the slaves and the verbal abuse of the abolitionists only served to strengthen the South in its defense of the peculiar institution.
Slaves who revolted were depicted as beasts who could not be freed because they would endanger society. Submissive slaves were pictured as children in need of paternal protection from the evils of a complex, modern world.
Actually, pressure from the mass of Northern white workers had contributed to abolition of slavery in those states.
In the Northern states slavery was forced to compete with free white labor in a way which was not true of the plantation economy of the South.
White workers continually complained that slavery was keeping their wages down and unemployment up, and in 1737 the governor of New York had asked the Legislature to investigate the charges that slave competition contributed to unemployment.
While this attack had helped to undermine slavery, it had also exacerbated tension between black and white labor.
The continual flow of runaways from the South brought an increasing supply of cheap black labor to compete with white workers, and the friction between the two races continued.
Jobs such as stevedores, coachmen, barbers, and servants, which had traditionally been left to blacks, were now being invaded by the Irish.
Whereas in 1830 the vast majority of New York City servants were Afro-American, after 1850 most of them were Irish.
This economic competition contributed considerably to the hostility, fear, and discrimination which confronted the Northern freedmen. In 1816 the American Colonization Society was founded.
It was considered the ideal solution to the American racial dilemma.
Claiming to be interested in the welfare of the African in its midst, the Society advocated colonizing in Africa or wherever else it was expedient.
It comforted slave owners by announcing that it was not concerned with either emancipation or amelioration.
Several state legislatures supported the idea, and Congress voted $100,000 to finance the plan which eventually led to the establishment of the Republic of Liberia. However, the Afro-American community was not very enthusiastic about the project.
In 1817 three thousand blacks crowded into the Bethel Church in Philadelphia and, led by Richard Allen, vehemently criticized colonization.
They charged that the Society's propaganda only served to increase racial discrimination since it stressed the poverty and ignorance of the freedman and claimed he was doomed to continue in his filth and degradation because of his natural inferiority.
It also argued that whites would only take advantage of the Afro-American, and that the separation of the two races was the only solution.
Besides, while they were African by heritage, they had been born in America, and it was now their home.
Most of the fifteen thousand who did return to Africa were slaves who had been freed for this purpose, and the project was acknowledged to be a failure.
The Society's own propaganda contributed to the alienation of many freedmen.
One of its own leaders admitted that lacks could read and hear and, when they were spoken of as a nuisance to be banished, they reacted negatively like men. Widespread racial prejudice, besides creating racial discrimination, resulted in oppressive legislation.
In 1810 Congress excluded Afro-Americans from carrying the mail.
In 1820 it authorized the District of Columbia to elect white city officials, and it consistently admitted new states to the Union whose constitutions severely limited the rights of freedmen.
The office of the Attorney General usually took the position that the Constitution did not grant citizenship to Negroes, and Congress itself had limited naturalization to white aliens in 1790.
This point of view was later justified by the Dred Scott decision.
With only a few exceptions, the Secretary of State refused to grant passports to those wishing to travel abroad, although it did provide a letter of identification stating that the carrier was a resident of the United States.
Finally, Massachusetts granted its own passports to its colored citizens, complaining that they had been virtually denationalized. Also, many states in the Northwest passed laws prohibiting or limiting the migration of Afro-Americans into their territory.
An Illinois law said that anyone who entered the state illegally could be whipped and sold at auction.
Many states denied blacks the ballot, prohibited their serving on a jury and legally segregated transportation, restaurants, hotels, theaters, churches, and even cemeteries.
Most Northern states did not allow them to testify in court against whites.
This meant that, if a white man beat a black, the black had no legal protection unless another white was willing to testify on his behalf. On several occasions white hostility erupted into violence.
Black workmen were harassed, abolitionists beaten, and entire communities terrorized.
One of the worst of these events occurred in Cincinnati in 1829.
With the rapid growth of "Little Africa," that city's black ghetto, the local citizens decided to enforce the state's anti-integration legislation.
White mobs ransacked the area, indiscriminately and mercilessly beating women and children, looting stores and burning houses.
It was estimated that half of the two thousand inhabitants of the area left the city.
The Jacksonian Era brought the common man into new prominence, but the same privileges were not extended to the blacks.
In the South, society was strengthening the institution of slavery against any possible recurrences of slave insurrections.
The activities of the slaves, especially those of Negro preachers, were being watched even more closely than before.
By 1800 most of the Northern states had either done away with slavery or had made provision for its gradual abolition.
Although this might not change the status of an adult slave, he knew his children, when they reached maturity, would be free.
This meant that the important issue in the North was that of identity.
What would be the place of Negroes who were not fully accepted as Americans?
While Northern states were willing to grant freedom to the Afro-Americans, they continued to view them as inferiors.
Many observers remarked that race prejudice actually increased with the abolition of slavery.
Northern freedmen concluded, like their slave brothers in the South, that they would have to work out their own salvation.
This left them to wrestle with such questions as: "Am I an American?
How can I establish my manhood and gain acceptance?" In the years immediately preceding the Revolution, there were slaves who had wrestled with some of these questions: Jupiter Hammon and Phillis Wheatley.
They tried to establish their claim to manhood through literary ability.
Both were poets and wrote romantic poetry in the spirit of the day.
In 1761 Jupiter Hammon, a Long Island slave, published his poem: "An Evening Thought.
Salvation by Christ with Penitential Cries".
Twelve years later Phillis Wheatley published a slim volume of poetry which was written in a style much like that of Alexander Pope.
Born in Africa in 1753, she had been brought to America as a child and had served in the Wheatley home in Boston.
When she displayed some literary ability, her master granted freedom to her and, to some extent, became her patron.
Her volume of poetry was published while she was visiting England and is generally considered superior to the poetry of Jupiter Hammon.
Although on one occasion Hammon did suggest that slavery was evil, he instructed slaves to bear it with patience.
Neither he nor Phillis Wheatley made any direct challenge to race prejudice.
Instead, they strove to gain acceptance as talented individuals who might help others of their race to improve their situation.
Unfortunately, white society regarded them only as unusual individual exceptions and continued to maintain its racial views. Gustavus Vassa was born in Africa in 1745 and was brought to America as a slave.
Eventually, after serving several masters, he became the property of a Philadelphia merchant who let him buy his own freedom.
After working for some time as a sailor, he settled in England, where he felt he would encounter less racial discrimination.
There he became an active worker in the British anti-slavery movement.
While expressing doubts regarding the merits of slavery in his "Notes on Virginia", Jefferson had expressed his belief in the inferiority of the African.
Banneker had educated himself, especially in mathematics and astronomy, and in 1789 he was one of those who helped to survey the District of Columbia.
Later, he predicted a solar eclipse.
In 1791 he had begun the publication of a series of almanacs, and the next year he sent one of these to Jefferson in an attempt to challenge his racial views.
Jefferson was so impressed with the work that he sent it to the French Academy of Science.
During the Revolution, he and his brother, both of whom owned property and paid taxes, raised the question of political rights.
Claiming "no taxation without representation", they both refused to pay their taxes because they were denied the ballot.
Their protest led Massachusetts to permit blacks to vote on the same basis as whites.
Nevertheless, over the years Cuffe developed reservations about the future of the African in America. In 1815, at his own expense, he transported thirty-eight blacks back to Africa.
Prince Hall, its founder, was born in Barbados and came to America with the idea of identifying himself with Afro-Americans.
He became a minister in the Methodist Church, where he dedicated himself to their advancement.
However, he concluded that only through working together through black cooperation, could any progress be made.
After being refused recognition by the American masons, his lodge was legitimized by a branch of the British Masons connected with army stationed in Boston.
Before long African lodges as well as other fraternal organizations sprang up all across the country.
Denied access to white society, blacks found it necessary to form various kinds of organizations for their own welfare. Even within the church which supposedly stressed brotherhood, separate African organizations were emerging.
During the revolution, George Liele founded a black Baptist church in Savannah, Georgia.
Although similar churches sprang up throughout the South, the independent church movement progressed more rapidly in the Northern states.
In 1786 Richard Allen, who had previously purchased his freedom from his Delaware master, began similar meetings among his own people in Philadelphia.
He wanted to found a separate black church, but he was opposed by Blacks and whites alike. However, when the officials of St. George's Methodist Church proposed segregating the congregation, events came to a head.
Richard Allen, Absalom Jones, and others went to the gallery as directed, but the ushers even objected to their sitting in the front seats of the gallery.
When they were pulled from their knees during prayer, Allen and his friends left the church, never to return.
They immediately formed the Free African Society and began collecting funds to build a church.
This resulted in the founding of St. Thomas' African Protestant Episcopal Church headed by Absalom Jones.
In spite of the behavior of the Methodists, Allen believed that Methodism was better suited to his people's style of worship and gradually he collected a community of followers.
In 1794 the Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church was opened in Philadelphia.
In 1816 several A.M.E. congregations met together to form a national organization with Allen as its bishop. Similar events in New York City led to the establishment of the African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church.
Early in 1807 a black Baptist Church was founded in Philadelphia, and later in that same year congregations were established in Boston and New York.
The New York congregation developed into the Abyssinian Baptist Church. The African church became the most important organization within the Afro-American community.
Besides providing spiritual strength and comfort, it became a community institution, a center for social, political, and economic life.
The minister became the most important leader of his people.
However, the full potential for organizing protest was overlooked.
For the most part, the church taught an other-worldly religion which strove to provide strength with which to endure the sorrows of this life, but it did not try too actively to change the situation.
Richard Allen, for example, counseled patience and caution, advising his people to wait for God to work in His own way.
In the meantime, the Christian was to practice obedience to God and to his master.
Most of the clergy stuck to religious matters and avoided political questions.
However, there were those who took an active part in politics, and they became leaders in the abolition movement and in the Negro Convention movement.
They included men like Samuel Ringgold Ward and Henry Highland Garnet. Another manifestation of group solidarity occurred in the Negro Convention Movement which began in 1830 and continued until the Civil War.
These meetings brought together leaders from Afro-American communities throughout the North.
They debated important problems, developed common policies, and spoke out with a united voice.
They consistently urged the abolition of slavery in the Southern states, and they condemned the legal and social discrimination which was rampant throughout the North.
At the 1843 convention in Buffalo, N.Y., Henry Highland Garnet tried to persuade the movement to declare violence an acceptable tool in the destruction of slavery.
However, by a vote of 19 to 15, the movement continued to oppose violence and to limit its power to an appeal based on moral persuasion. Besides the Convention Movement, there were two other means of achieving broad leadership.
This was still an age of oratory.
Frederick Douglass, William Wells Brown, Sojourner Truth, and many others traveled from town to town and state to state giving lectures to both black and white audiences.
Although his father had been a slave, David Walker himself was born free in North Carolina.
His hatred of slavery drove him to Boston, where he became a clothing merchant, but he was unable to forget his brethren who were still in bondage.
He denied that his people wished to be white, insisting rather that they preferred to be just as their creator had made them.
Urging his brothers not to show fear because God was on their side, Walker contended that any man who was not willing to fight for his freedom deserved to remain in slavery and to be butchered by his captors.
Insisting that death was preferable to slavery, he insisted that, if an uprising occurred, the slaves would have to be willing to kill or be killed.
Moreover, he urged that it was no worse to kill a man in self-defense than it was to take a drink of water when thirsty.
Rather, a man who would not defend himself was worse than an infidel, and not deserving of pity. In addressing the American people, Walker foresaw that if they would treat Africans as men, they could all live together in harmony.
Georgia offered $10,000 for Walker if taken alive and $1,000 for him dead.
A year later Walker died under somewhat mysterious circumstances, and some claimed that he had been murdered.
His pamphlet circulated widely throughout the North and the South, and many believed that it helped to encourage slave insurrections. "Freedoms Journal", which had been founded in 1827 by Samuel E.
Russwurm, was the first in a long series of Afro-American newspapers.
Russwurm had been the first of his race to receive a college degree in America.
In their first editorial, they proclaimed what was becoming a growing conviction.
They said that others had spoken for the black man for too long.
It was time that he spoke for himself.
They also attacked slavery and racial prejudice.
They strove to make the paper a medium for communication and debate within the Afro-American community. They also intended to use the paper to clarify misconceptions about Africa.
Like many of their contemporaries, Cornish and Russwurm believed that even those who were friendly to their race were unconsciously steeped in prejudice.
Therefore, it was doubly necessary for Afro-Americans to speak out for themselves, to expose the prejudices of bigots and liberals.
However, by 1829 Russwurm had become increasingly bitter about the future of his race in America and came to believe that returning to Africa was the only way to escape prejudice.
He believed that the colony which had been established in Liberia was in need of educated leadership, and he went there to become its superintendent of education.
Cornish remained behind and continued to work as a minister and as a newspaper editor. The "North Star", later known as Frederick Douglass's paper, was the best known of the black journals.
Its editor, Frederick Douglass, was born a slave in Maryland in 1817.
His mother was a slave named Harriet Bailey, and the identity of his white father remains unknown.
He was raised by his maternal grandmother on a distant farm and almost never saw his mother.
Like many slaves, he was denied a father, almost denied a mother, and largely denied any meaningful identity.
After working for several years as a slave both on the plantation and in the city, he determined to run away.
Although an earlier attempt had failed, he now made his way north to New Bedford, Massachusetts.
There he was shocked to discover that, while some whites gave him protection and help, race prejudice was still rampant.
A skilled craftsman, he was unable to find work.
When an employer was willing to accept him, his fellow workers threatened to walk off the job.
At one meeting, after Douglass had spoken, Garrison asked the audience whether this was a beast or a man.
Douglass soon became a regular lecturer in the abolitionist movement.
As he traveled throughout the North, he was continually harassed by racial discrimination in trains, coaches, boats, restaurants hotels, and other public places.
In contrast, when he went to England to raise funds for the movement, he was struck by the fact that he could go any place, including places frequented by the aristocracy, and be accepted as a man.
He said that wherever he went in England he could always identify an American because his race prejudice clung to him like clothing.
While in England, abolitionists raised funds which allowed him to purchase his freedom. When he returned to America, Douglass settled in Rochester, New York, where he began publication of "The North Star".
Rochester was a thriving city on the Erie Canal, and, because it also had a port on Lake Ontario, it became an important terminal on the Underground Railroad.
While many runaways settled in Rochester, others boarded steamers for Canada where they would be beyond the reach of the law.
Douglass came to play an important role on the Underground Railroad, in the life of Rochester and, through "The North Star", among Northern freedmen.
Garrison felt double-crossed when his most important cohort in the Afro-American community struck out on his own.
Douglass, in agreement with the position previously taken by Cornish and Russwurm, believed that blacks must assume leadership in their own cause. Before long, "The North Star" was recognized as the voice of the black man in America.
Douglass spoke out on all issues through its pages, and he continued to tour the country lecturing before audiences of both colors and discussing matters of policy with other abolitionists.
He did not believe in merely exercising patience and obedience.
Rather, he believed it was necessary to prick the white man's conscience with moral persuasion.
His tactics combined nonviolence with self-assertion. Although the Constitution had indirectly recognized slavery, Douglass believed that its spirit, as well as that of the American Revolution, implied the eventual destruction of that institution.
Therefore, political action was a legitimate and necessary tool with which to attack slavery and racial discrimination.
From his knowledge of the South, he was convinced that slavery could not be overthrown without violence. However, he insisted that the black man was in no position to take the leadership in the use of physical force.
Garrison soon became the fiery and controversial leader of the abolitionist movement and the editor of "The Liberator".
The movement included men like Wendell Phillips, Arthur and Lewis Tappan, Theodore Dwight Weld, Gerrit Smith, James Birney, and many others.
They condemned the American Colonization Society for sharing the unchristian prejudices of the slaveholders. Although the Northern states had abolished slavery, most whites believed that it was not their business to interfere with the domestic affairs of the Southern states.
His brand of abolitionism attacked the Constitution as a vicious document giving sanction to slavery.
He advocated that the Northern states separate from the South as a means of removing federal protection from slavery.
Because the government was based on an unholy document, he concluded that any kind of political action automatically enmeshed one in this evil system.
He was vehemently against the use of violence to overthrow slavery and insisted that moral persuasion was the only legitimate tool in the cause.
Anyone who did not support his doctrines faithfully was viewed as an enemy.
This meant that he did not cooperate with abolitionists who condoned the use of violence or with those who were willing to accept the Constitution and engage in political action. Ironically, the abolitionist movement was also divided by racial prejudice.
While opposing slavery, some refused to believe in political equality.
Others were willing to grant political equality, but resisted the idea of social mixing.
Many of the whites were influential businessmen, and they were attacked for their own hiring practices.
It was claimed that, when they hired blacks at all, they hired them only in menial positions.
Delany, abolitionist, journalist, and physician, complained that the blacks had taken a back seat in the movement for too long.
He also bitterly attacked whites for thinking that they knew best what was good for the African.
He concluded that both friend and foe shared the same prejudices. The Underground Railroad was another project which involved large numbers of whites.
Besides providing financial backing for it, they worked as conductors and station masters.
They helped runaways to safety, and they sheltered escapees.
These men wanted to do more than speak out on the issue of slavery; they wanted to take action.
Helping runaway slaves was against the law, and these men had such strong convictions that, while they did not think of themselves as criminals, they were willing to deliberately break the law.
They participated in a kind of civil disobedience.
However, the bravest workers on the underground railroad were black.
If they were caught, especially in the South, they would have to pay the ultimate price for their heroism.
The best known of all the black conductors was a brave runaway slave woman named Harriet Tubman. She ventured deep into the South on several occasions to lead large numbers of slaves to freedom, and she became a national legend.
Several states put a price on her head.
During the Civil War she served as a Union spy behind confederate lines. Gradually the abolitionist movement and the Underground Railroad won the support of ever-increasing numbers of white Northerners.
At the same time, the South became increasingly bitter.
Abolitionist literature was banned throughout the South, and most of the abolitionist leaders, because they had circulated literature in violation of this ban, had a price put on their heads.
The Underground Railroad was more than a symbolic attack on the institution of slavery.
While there is no way of telling how many slaves traveled to freedom with its help, certainly the value of human property lost to the South was very high.
A slave was worth about $1,000, and thousands of slaves escaped.
The financial loss was very real.
Even Northern white bigots opposed the extension of slavery into these states.
From their point of view, slavery was unfair competition with free labor, and they wanted the new states for the purpose of expansion.
As the middle of the century approached, dark clouds of crisis could be seen on the horizon. Growth of Extremism During the 1850s American racial attitudes grew more extreme.
While slavery continued to flourish throughout the South, discrimination was rampant throughout the North.
Instead of gradually withering away as some had expected, the peculiar institution had been thriving and spreading into the Southwest ever since Eli Whitney's discovery of the cotton gin in 1793 had given new life to the growing of cotton.
Slavery was booming in Alabama and spreading into Louisiana, Mississippi, and even Texas.
At the same time, the North, after experiencing a full decade without slavery, was still steeped in discrimination and prejudice.
After several years of freedom, Northern blacks still were not gaining economic advancement, political rights, or social acceptance.
As the numbers of European immigrants had increased, job discrimination grew.
The Northern states were, at the same time, abolishing the political rights of Afro-Americans.
The hopes which had accompanied the end of slavery in those states were fading into despair.
The Southern justification of slavery was based on four main arguments.
First, it was claimed that slavery was indispensable to its economy and that every society, whether slave or free, needed those who must do its menial labor.
Although many Northerners might not agree that the need for labor was a justification for slavery, many would concur with second argument, which was that the Negro was destined for a position of inferiority.
Here the racial prejudices of North and the South overlapped.
The third argument was that Christianity had sanctioned slavery throughout all of history as a means for conversion.
This contention had more justification than the religious colonists would care to admit.
Finally, the South argued that white civilization had developed a unique high culture precisely because slavery removed the burden from the white citizens.
Again, while Northerners might not totally agree with this point, many of them did believe in the superiority of white civilization.
Although these points convinced few outsiders of the necessity for the existence of slavery, they did underline the widespread belief in black inferiority and white superiority.
The Compromise of 1850, at the urging of the South, included the Fugitive Slave Act which vastly increased the powers of the slave owner to pursue runaway slaves throughout the North.
The law also required that Northern officials cooperate in this process.
Afro-Americans who had been living in Northern communities for years and who were accepted as respected citizens were now threatened with recapture by their previous masters.
Many of these leaders were forced to flee.
In fact many felt, like Frederick Douglass, that this law made the Federal Government an agent of slavery, and they believed that it forced local governments to become its co-conspirators.
Several Northern states passed new civil rights laws in an attempt to protect their citizens.
The Fugitive Slave Act was a powerful blow at the Afro-American communities in the North.
It has been estimated that between 1850 and 1860 some twenty thousand fled to Canada.
In the face of this reversal moderation became meaningless. The involvement of the Federal Government in supporting slavery led to a growing alienation within the Afro-American community.
Increasingly, militant leaders reevaluated their position on colonization.
Henry Highland Garnet and Martin R.
Delany, both workers in the abolition movement, reversed their positions and became proponents of emigration. While Garnet favored emigration to Liberia, Delany became an advocate of moving to Central and South America.
He said that the United States had violated its own principles of republicanism and equality and that it was keeping Negroes in economic and political bondage.
He concluded that Negroes were left with a choice between continued degradation in America or emigration.
By 1852 he had come to prefer the latter choice. In 1854 a colonization convention was held in Cleveland for those who were interested in emigration within the boundaries of the western hemisphere.
The convention noted that the Afro-American community was developing a growing sense of racial consciousness and pride.
Although blacks were in the minority in Europe and America, it pointed out that most of the world's population was colored.
Integration into the mainstream of American life, besides appearing to be impossible, seemed to demand the denial of selfhood for the black man.
Therefore, black separatism grew in popularity and became a platform from which to maintain a sense of identity and individual worth. However, many militants like Frederick Douglass did not approve of black nationalism and colonization.
They claimed that they were still Americans and did not constitute a separate nation.
Leaders who were not black nationalists, however, could still be militant.
Although Douglass did not actively support John Brown's raid on Harpers Ferry, the reason for his decision was that he doubted its effectiveness and not because he opposed its violent technique.
In fact, Douglass applauded the attack.
He said that Brown had attacked slavery "with the weapons precisely adapted to bring it to the death," and he contended that, since slavery existed by "brute force," then it was legitimate to turn its own weapons against it.
Previously the Reverend Moses Dixon had established two fraternal organizations to train blacks for military action.
Although nothing substantial came from them, the idea of developing guerrilla forces as the only remaining tool against slavery was gaining support. Another militant, H.
Ford Douglass, concluded that the government had become so tyrannical that it was possible for him to engage in military action against it without his becoming a traitor to his country.
He said, "I can hate this government without becoming disloyal because it has stricken down my manhood, and treated me as a salable commodity.
He contended that to support the government and the constitution on which it was based was to endorse a despotic state, and he went on to express his abhorrence for the system which destroyed him and his people.
A slave who had resided with his master in a territory where slavery was forbidden by act of Congress had claimed his freedom.
In one single decision the court had lashed out at the Afro-American with two blows.
After beginning his public career in New England as a participant in the abolitionist struggle, Brown became absolutely outraged by the apparent success that the South was having in spreading slavery into the new territories.
He became one of the most active leaders in Kansas and rallied support to prevent that state from falling into the hands of proslavery factions.
The slavery debates in Kansas exploded into open combat.
Brown's outrage became a fiery conviction that God had chosen him to be one of the leaders in the righteous struggle against slavery.
Despite Brown's urging, Douglass refused to join in what he believed to be a futile and desperate gesture.
However, he wished Brown the best of luck.
The plan was to establish a center of operation in the Virginia hills.
Brown did not expect to defeat the South by force of arms.
Instead, he believed that he could establish a mountain refuge which would attract ever-increasing numbers of slaves.
The result was the raid on the government arsenal at Harpers Ferry, Virginia.
The attacking party included five blacks: Lewis Sheridan Leary, Dangerfield Newly, John Anthony Copeland, Osborn Perry Anderson, and Shields Green. Two of them were killed in the attack, two more were later executed, and one escaped.
The attack failed, and Brown and several others were executed.
Before his execution Brown said that, while they might dispose of him quite easily, the Negro question itself could not be easily dismissed.
At the same time, the election of Abraham Lincoln was interpreted by the South as a swing of the political pendulum in favor of the abolitionists. This was not true.
Both Lincoln and the Republican Party had decided that the Anti-slave issue was not a broad enough platform on which to win an election.
He was convinced that there was a wide social gap between whites and blacks, and he indicated that he had grave doubts about extending equal political rights to Afro-Americans.
Besides opposing slavery, he believed that racial differences pointed to the necessity for the separation of the two races, and he favored a policy of emigration.
However, he had no interest in forcing either abolition or emigration on anyone.
His political goals were to increase national unity, to suppress the extension of slavery, to encourage voluntary emancipation, and to stimulate volitional emigration.
He was far from the abolitionist which the South believed him to be.
At the same time, abolitionists were as unhappy with his election as were slaveholders.
His election was clearly an attempt to strike a compromise, but the South was in no mood to negotiate.
His strategy was to negotiate from a platform which provided the largest numbers of supporters.
With these priorities in the foreground, the government took considerable time to clarify its position on emancipation as well as its stand regarding the use of freedmen in the Union forces.
Similarly, the refusal to use blacks in the Union forces might seriously weaken the military cause.
In the absence of any uniform policy, individual officers made their own decisions.
According to the Fugitive Slave Act, Northern officials should have helped in capturing and returning them.
When General Butler learned that the South was using slaves to erect military defenses, he declared that such slaves were contraband of war and therefore did not have to be returned.
Congress stated that it was not the duty of an officer to return freed slaves.
However, on at least one occasion, Lincoln gave instructions to permit masters to cross the Potomac into Union lines to look for their runaway slaves. In August, 1861, a uniform policy was initiated with the passing of the Confiscation Act.
It stated that property used in aiding the insurrection could be captured.
When such property consisted of slaves, it stated that those slaves were to be forever free.
Thereafter, slaves flocked into Union lines in an ever-swelling flood.
Besides fighting the war, the Union army found itself bogged down caring for thousands of escaped slaves, a task for which it was unprepared.
In some cases confiscated plantations were leased to Northern whites, and escaped slaves were hired out to work them.
In December of 1862 General Saxton declared that abandoned land could be used for the benefit of the ex-slave.
Each family was given two acres of land for every worker in the family, and the government provided some tools with which to work it.
However, most of the land was sold to Northern capitalists who became absentee landlords with little or no interest in maintaining the quality of the land or in caring for the ex-slave who did the actual labor.
These ex-slaves were herded into large camps with very poor facilities.
Thousands of school teachers, both black and white, flocked into the South to help prepare the ex-slave for his new life. In the beginning, Lincoln had been very reticent in permitting the use of slaves or freedmen in the army.
As early as 1861 General Sherman had authorized the employment of fugitive slaves in "services for which they were suited.
Late in 1862 Lincoln permitted the enlistment of some freedmen, and, in 1863, their enlistment became widespread.
By the end of the war more than 186,000 of them had joined the Union forces.
For the first time in American history, however, they were forced to serve in segregated units and were usually commanded by white officers.
One of the ironies of the conflict was that the war which terminated slavery was also responsible for initiating segregation within the armed Forces.
In a way this fact became symbolic of the role which racial discrimination and segregation eventually came to play in American society.
Besides fighting in segregated units, the Negro soldiers, for about a year, received half pay.
The 54th Massachusetts regiment served for an entire year without any pay rather than to accept discriminatory wages.
In South Carolina a group of soldiers stacked their arms in front of their captain's tent in protest against the prejudicial pay scale.
Sgt. William Walker, one of the instigators of the demonstration, was court-martialed and shot for this action.
Finally, in 1864 all soldiers received equal pay. The South was outraged by the use of "colored troops.
It refused to recognize them and treat them as enemy soldiers, and, whenever any were captured, it preferred to treat them as runaway slaves under the black codes.
This meant that they received much harsher treatment than they would have if they had been treated as prisoners of war.
Also, the South preferred to kill them instead of permitting their surrender.
As a result more than 38,000 of them were killed during the war. Many Northerners were also upset by the use of "colored troops.
They did not like to have the Civil War considered a war to abolish slavery.
Many of them feared that this would only increase competition.
As a result, when white longshoremen struck in New York and blacks were brought in to take their place, a riot ensued.
Many of the white strikers found themselves drafted into the Army, and they did not appreciate fighting to secure the freedom of men who took away their jobs.
Even during the war racial emotions continued to run high in the North. In 1862 General Hunter proclaimed the freedom of all slaves in the military sector: Georgia, Florida, and South Carolina.
When Lincoln heard of it, he immediately reversed the decree.
He preferred gradual, compensated emancipation followed by voluntary emancipation.
He persuaded Congress to pass a bill promising Federal aid to any state which set forth a policy of gradual compensated emancipation.
Abolitionists said that masters should not be paid for freeing their slaves because slaves were never legitimate property.
Congress also established a fund to aid voluntary emigration to either Africa or Latin America.
However, few slaves were interested even in compensated emancipation, and the plan received almost no support.
Lincoln finally concluded that emancipation had become a military necessity.
In September 1862 he issued a preliminary decree promising to free all slaves in rebel territory.
On January 1, 1863, the Emancipation Proclamation went into effect. However, slavery continued to be legal in a areas which were not in rebellion.
As the end of the war, some questions had been solved and new ones had been created.
Lincoln's belief in the fact that the Union was indissoluble had been vindicated, and it was also evident that national unity could not go hand in hand with sectional slavery. But three new questions were now emerging.
How should sectional strife be healed?
What should be the status of the ex-slave?
Who should determine that status? Reconstruction and Its Failure At the close of the war more attention was given to the reconstruction of Southern institutions than to the elevation of the ex-slave.
They believed that blacks could immediately enter into community life on an equal footing with other citizens, Any suggestion that the ex-slave needed help to get started drew considerable resentment and hostility from liberals and conservatives alike.
With the abolition of the peculiar institution, the anti-slavery societies considered their work finished.
Frederick Douglass, however, complained that the slaves were sent out into the world empty-handed.
In fact, both the war and emancipation had intensified racial hostility.
The ex-slave had not yet been granted his civil rights.
At the same time, he was no longer covered by property rights.
Therefore he was even more vulnerable to physical intimidation than before. As the war drew to an end, Lincoln initiated a program aimed at the rapid reconstruction of the South and the healing of sectional bitterness.
With only the exclusion of a few Confederate officials, he offered immediate pardon to all who would swear allegiance to the Federal Government.
As soon as ten percent of the citizens of any state who had voted in 1860 had taken this oath, a state could then hold local elections and resume home rule.
Granting personal pardons by the thousands, he initiated a plan for restoration which was even more lenient.
Southern states resumed home rule, and, in the Federal election of 1866, they elected scores of Confederate officials to Congress.
At the same time other Confederate officials were elected to other local posts throughout the South.
One of the most urgent tasks taken up by these new home-rule governments was the determination and definition of the status of the ex-slave.
State after state passed black codes which bore an amazing resemblance to those of slavery days.
Blacks were not allowed to testify in court against whites.
If they quit their jobs, they could be imprisoned for breach of contract.
Anyone found without a job could be arrested and fined $50.
Those who could not pay the fine were hired out to anyone in the community who would pay the fine.
This created a new system of forced labor.
At the same time, blacks could be fined for insulting gestures, breaking the curfew, and for possessing firearms. This created the kind of supervision of personal life which was similar to that of slavery.
An enraged Congress passed the civil rights legislation over his veto and came within one vote of impeaching the President.
Although impeachment failed, Johnson lost his leadership in the government, and Congress, within two years after the end of the war, began Reconstruction all over again.
The first large-scale Congressional hearings in American history were held to investigate the conditions in the South.
The investigation documented widespread poverty, physical brutality, and intimidation as well as legal discrimination.
The comittee made a detailed examination of the race riots which had occurred in Memphis and New Orleans in which scores of blacks had been killed.
It concluded that the New Orleans riot was in fact a police massacre in which dozens of blacks were murdered in cold blood. Congress removed home rule from the Southern states and divided the area into five military districts.
Even those Southerners who had already received federal pardons were now required to swear a stricter oath in order to regain their right to vote.
State conventions met to draft new constitutions.
These conventions were dominated by a coalition of three groups: new black voters, whites who had come from the North either to make personal fortunes or to help educate the ex-slave, and Southern whites who had never supported the Confederacy.
The oath of allegiance required a citizen to swear that he was now and always had been loyal to the Federal Government.
This excluded all the Confederate officials. These new Southern reconstruction governments operated under the protection of the Army and with the encouragement of the Federal Government.
They strove to reconstruct the South economically, politically, and socially. They established a system of public education, built many new hospitals, founded institutions for the mentally and physically handicapped, and attempted to reform the penal system.
During Reconstruction blacks played a significant political role throughout the South.
Besides voting in large numbers, they were elected to local, state, and federal offices. Between 1869 and 1901, two became U.
Senators and twenty were members of the House of Representatives.
Senators Revels and Bruce were elected from Mississippi.
Pinchback was elected to the Senate from Louisiana, but he was not permitted to take his seat.
He did serve as Lieutenant Governor of Louisiana, and, for three days, was Acting Governor. White conservatives in the South were outraged, and they were determined to have absolutely nothing to do with a government which permitted Negro participation.
They spread the myth that Reconstruction governments were in the grip of intolerably stupid and corrupt black men.
Although Negroes were elected to state governments in significant numbers, the fact was that at no time were they in control.
Moreover, when the critics themselves came to power, they did nothing to undo the work of the Reconstruction governments.
This fact cast doubts on the sincerity of their criticism.
The one thing which the white conservatives did when they regained power was to disenfranchise the blacks.
This indicated that their real complaint in regard to Reconstruction was the participation of Negroes in government.
With the Federal Government protecting the civil and political rights of the ex-slave, the South was unable to use the law to keep him in his place.
The passionate belief in white superiority and a desperate fear of black retaliation caused many whites to resort to physical intimidation to achieve their purposes.
The Ku Klux Klan was the most notorious of a large number of similar organizations which spread throughout the South.
Negroes and white sympathizers were beaten and lynched.
Most of these organizations were spontaneous local developments, and this made it difficult for either federal or state governments to find and destroy them.
Often their tactics were successful in shaping election results.
Their propaganda was also useful in influencing public opinion.
They insisted that they were only protecting women, children, and civic morality.
The concept of social and economic rights was almost nonexistent a century ago.
Political rights, however, without economic security could be a mere abstraction. Meaningful freedom had to be more than the freedom to starve.
This meant that the ex-slave needed land, tools, and training to provide him with an economic base that would make his freedom real.
The ex-slave had limited education, limited experience, a servile slave attitude, and he was in need of social and economic training to compensate for the years of slavery.
Without this he could not enter a competitive society as an equal.
Emancipation was not enough. Most slaves had been engaged in plantation agriculture and were destined to continue in some kind of farm work.
Sumner and Stevens led the fight in Congress to provide each of them with forty acres and a mule, and this would have provided the basis for their developing into an independent class of farmers.
However, they were doomed to remain a subservient mass of peasants.
The prewar slave plantation was replaced by sharecropping, tenant farming, and the convict lease system.
In some cases the ex-slave was provided with land, tools, and seed by plantation owner who, in turn, was to get a share of the crop at the end of the season.
His share was always so large that the cropper remained permanently in his debt. Similarly, tenant farmers paid rent for their land and were extended loans by the store keeper for their provisions.
Interest rates ran so high that they too remained in permanent bondage.
Finally, some plantation owners leased convicts from the state and worked them in chain gangs which most closely resembled the prewar slave system.
In every case, the result was that black farm laborers remained members of a permanent peasant class. The other hope for the advancement of the ex-slave was through the development of industrial skills.
At this time the American labor movement was emerging and was striving to protect and elevate the status of industrial workers.
In 1866 the National Labor Union decided to organize black workers within its ranks, but by 1869 it was urging colored delegates to its convention to form their own separate organization.
This resulted in the creation of the National Negro Labor Convention.
In the North it operated mixed locals, and in the South it had separate black and white organizations.
It employed both black and white organizers.
In 1886 its total membership was estimated at 700,000 of which 60,000 were black.
The following year its total membership had shrunk to 500,000, but its black membership had increased to 90,000.
F. of L. had no power over local discriminatory practices.
Whites in skilled trades used unions to maintain an exclusive control in those trades, and they deliberately strove to relegate blacks to the lower ranks of industrial labor.
Barred from the road to advancement, black labor became a permanent industrial proletariat. The Freedmen's Bureau was the one federal attempt to raise the social and economic standing of the ex-slave.
Along with the American Missionary Association, the Freedmen's Bureau did significant work in education. Hundreds of teachers staffed scores of schools and brought some degree of literacy and job skills to thousands of pupils.
However, beyond the field of education, the bureau did little except to provide temporary help. Begun as a war measure, when the Radical Republicans came into control, they put it on a more permanent footing.
Even liberals, however, were not prepared to support a long-term social experiment, and, after some half dozen years, the Bureau was terminated.
Where terror and intimidation were not successful, relentless economic pressure by landowners, merchants, and industrialists brought most of the ex-slaves into line.
Year by year they exerted less influence at the voting booths. Although the country was aware of this, Northern liberals were growing weary of the unending fight to protect the freedman.
Furthermore, masses of Northern whites sympathized with Southern race prejudice.
While they did approve of ending slavery, they were not willing to extend social and political equality.
The North had begun to put a higher priority on peace than on justice.
Industrialists were expanding their businesses rapidly, and they wanted the South to be pacified, so that it would be a safe area for investment and expansion.
If this meant returning power to white conservatives, they were willing to pay the price.
The presidential election of 1876 degenerated into chaos and confusion.
Tilden, the Democratic candidate, and Rutherford B.
Hayes, the Republican, disputed its results.
Democrats and Republicans both claimed twenty electoral votes from Georgia, Louisiana, South Carolina, and Florida.
The first returns had shown that Tilden was the victor, but Republicans, especially Army veterans, warned that they would not accept such a result.
The Republicans represented themselves as the party of the Union, and they claimed that the Democrats were the party of secession.
The debate grew so heated that it appeared war could erupt again.
Pessimists warned that it would be the last free election in American history.
After months of bickering, a compromise was reached.
The South was willing to support Republican Hayes if, when in power, he would remove the troops and restore home rule.
The votes were counted again in the four states in question, and all twenty were awarded to Hayes allowing him to win by one electoral vote. Hayes began on an ambivalent note.
On one hand he said that the country must have honest and equal government, This would appear to be a concession to the South which complained vehemently about the supposed corruption of black Reconstruction.
On the other hand, he admitted that the rights of blacks must be protected by the Federal Government.
In practice, however, by returning the South to home rule, he abandoned the ex-slave.
He said that the ex-slave's interest would be best protected by being left in the hands of honest and influential Southern whites.
Hayes had expressed an awareness of the brutality and intimidation which still continued in the South, but he had apparently concluded that federal intervention only aggravated the problem.
In his opinion Southern gentlemen were not thieves and cut-throats; they too were educated, civilized, and Christians.
The fact that they were not aware of the brutality in their midst and that some of them undoubtedly participated in it, bewildered him.
He was willing to proceed on the assumption that, if the Southern whites were left alone, they would, as they asserted, treat the ex-slave honestly and fairly.
Hayes seemed unaware that men could be educated, civilized, and claim to be Christians while at the same time behaving as bigots and racists.
To satisfy the industrialists in the North and the white conservatives in the South, Hayes buried the last remains of Reconstruction.
However, he made a one-sided compromise. While he comitted himself to immediate action, the South was only bound by vague promises to be fulfilled at some indefinite date.
There was a growing discontent among small farmers who wanted the state governments to alter the tax burden and interest rates in their favor.
Largely spearheaded by the Populist movement, Negro and white farmers came to see that their interests were identical.
In turn, conservatives deliberately encouraged racial hatred in order to drive a wedge between poor whites and Negroes within the rising Populist movement.
It became evident to both Democrats and populists that the Negro vote had become the deciding vote in many states.
White farmers and white aristocrats both felt uneasy over this state of affairs. The result was widespread agreement to systematically and legally eliminate Negroes from politics altogether.
State constitutions were either amended or rewritten.
Literacy tests and poll taxes became standard devices for limiting Negro voting.
The "understanding test" required a citizen to interpret a portion of the state constitution to the satisfaction of the registrar.
The severity of the test varied invariably with the color of the applicant.
The "grandfather clause" prohibited those whose ancestors had not voted from exercising the franchise.
Because slaves had not voted, their descendants were disqualified.
Although the Fifteenth Amendment had been designed to guarantee the vote to the ex-slave, the South now evaded it.
Although both major parties complained about this disenfranchisement and condemned it as being unconstitutional, neither party took any action.
The Supreme Court also played an important part in restricting the freedom of freedmen.
In 1883 it declared the 1875 Civil Rights Act to be unconstitutional.
This act had made it illegal for individuals to discriminate in public accommodations.
Although it had never been enforced, the court's decision nevertheless, came as a setback, because it was the signal to the South that through Jim Crow legislation Negroes could be kept in "their place.
Under slavery there had been considerable social contact between the races.
Segregation as a social system was begun in the North prior to the Civil War, but, during the last two decades of the nineteenth century, Southern states made it a legal requirement.
Its relentless growth is carefully outlined by C.
Vann Woodward in his book The Strange Career of Jim Crow.
He was arrested and found guilty of violating the state statute. He appealed to the U.
Supreme Court, but it upheld his conviction by claiming that "separate but equal" facilities were not a violation of his rights.
White Americans came to believe that all Negroes were alike and therefore could be treated as a group.
An identical stereotype of the Negro fixed itself on the white mind throughout the entire country.
If the Northerner hated this stereotype somewhat less than did the Southerner, it was only because the number of Negroes in the North was considerably smaller.
At the end of the century only two percent of the total number of Afro-Americans was to be found in the North.
The great northern migration had not yet begun. Both the Northern press and the genteel literary magazines contained the same vulgar image of the Negro which was to be found in openly racist communities in the South.
Whether he appeared in news articles, editorials, cartoons, or works of fiction, he was universally portrayed as superstitious, stupid, lazy, happy-go-lucky, a liar, a thief, and a drunkard.
He loved fun, clothes, and trinkets as well as chickens, watermelons, and sweet potatoes.
News items concerning those involved in criminal activities almost always identified them by color.
This contributed to the development of the stereotype of the criminal Negro. Throughout its history, America had been predominantly an Anglo-Saxon and Protestant country.
The Afro-American stood out in sharp distinction to this picture both because of his color and his African heritage.
By the end of the nineteenth century America was being flooded with immigrants from Southern and Eastern Europe.
They too were much darker than the dominant strains of Northern Europe, and many were Catholics.
There was a growing feeling that these new immigrants, like the Negroes, were inherently alien and intrinsically unassimilable.
In his book The Passing of the Great Race, he warned that Nordic excellence would be swamped by the faster-spawning Catholic immigrants.
The same kind of pseudo-scientific thinking which was developed in Europe to justify anti-Semitism was used in America to reinforce prejudices against Negroes as well as against Jews and South Europeans.
In the first half of the nineteenth century the American anthropologist Samuel George Morton argued that each race had its own unique characteristics.
Racial character, he believed, was the result of inheritance rather than of environment.
Early anthropologists and sociologists were preoccupied with dividing humanity into differing races and trying to catalog and explain these differences.
Phrenology was another pseudo-science which attempted to construct a system according to which intellectual and moral characteristics would be correlated with the size and shape of the human head.
On this basis many tried to divide mankind into physical types and to assign to each its own intellectual and moral qualities.
Racial thinkers applied the concept of human competitiveness to racial conflict instead of to individual competition.
In its usual form the Anglo-Saxon or Teutonic race was depicted as superior, and the Semitic and Negroid races as inferior.
It had failed to progress in America, not because it had been enslaved, but because it did not have the faculty to raise itself above that status.
He continued to argue that its inability to advance in the scale of civilization was demonstrated by the level of social and political life to be found in Liberia, Haiti, the Dominican Republic, and Brazil.
In the same journal, Theodore Roosevelt announced that the African was a member of "a perfectly stupid race" which was kept down by a lack of natural development.
Another one whose views became influential was Josiah Strong.
This expansion would lead to racial conflict which would culminate in the survival of the fittest through the victory of the white over the colored races of the world.
Strong's belief that white racial superiority would naturally lead to racial imperialism and world domination by the white race was shared by many contemporary Americans.
A few of those who shared his ideas were Senator Albert Beveridge, Senator Cabot Lodge, John Hay, Admiral Alfred T.
Mahan, and Theodore Roosevelt. Racism opened the door to American imperialism. The new racism could not depend on the existence of slavery in order to reinforce white superiority.
Instead, it drew on racial stereotypes and flimsy scientific opinion.
In the North it was rooted in social custom, but in the South it had been made a matter of law. Separate facilities were inferior facilities.
In that decade one black was lynched almost every two days.
It became universally accepted that the American principles of justice, liberty, and equality did not have to be applied equally to whites and blacks. CHAPTER 7 Racism and Democracy Fighting Jim Crow RAYFORD W.
LOGAN, in his book The Betrayal of the Negro described the turn of the century as the low point in Afro-American history.
After Emancipation, he contended, the hopes of the Negroes were betrayed. Again they were pushed down into second-class status.
It appeared that democracy was for whites only.
Actually, the increasing growth of racism and of segregation as well, led inevitably to the development of opposition groups bent on destroying this discrimination.
Segregation promoted the creation of Negro institutions which then became the center for this counterattack. The most prominent of these Afro-American institutions was the Negro church.
Like the white church, it was fragmented into many separate denominations.
There was the African Methodist Episcopal Church, the African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church, the Colored Methodist Episcopal Church, the National Baptists, and a host of denominational organizations. However, integrated congregations within the mainly white church groups were almost nonexistent.
Those blacks who did belong to such white denominations usually attended all-black congregations within the larger institutional structure.
Negro colleges also sprang up throughout the South as well as an occasional one in the North.
These included such well-known schools as Howard, Hampton, Tuskegee, and Fisk.
The churches and colleges became training grounds for a growing middle-class and for future community leaders.
Each in its own way provided a debating center in which racial problems closing in from all sides were considered. As Negroes were frequently denied employment by whites, they began to develop businesses of their own.
Because their capital was almost always small, their task was made more difficult.
White-owned banks hesitated to lend money to Negroes, forcing them into developing banks of their own. By 1900 blacks had founded four banks which appealed mainly to a Negro clientele.
They had a combined capital of more than $90,000.
White-owned insurance companies often refused to sell insurance policies to Negroes. Standardized mortality charts showed that Negroes died at an earlier age than whites.
When insurance companies did accept them as clients, they were charged higher rates than were whites.
During the nineteenth century, various Negro secret societies attempted to develop insurance programs for their members.
In 1898 the National Benefit Insurance Company was opened in Washington.
Owned by blacks, it deliberately sought out Negro patronage.
In the same year, the Mutual Benefit Insurance Company was opened in North Carolina along similar lines. White undertakers and beauticians were reluctant to cater to Negro customers.
Aside from their personal tastes, they feared that it would alienate their white patrons.
A similar situation held true for dentists and doctors.
This forced the Afro-American community to develop its own professionals.
By 1900, Negroes had invested half a million dollars in undertaking establishments.
In 1915, Carter G. Woodson established the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History and began publication of the Journal of Negro History. In 1905, W.
DuBois, John Hope, Monroe Trotter, Kelly Miller, and other outspoken young Negro intellectuals met in Niagara Falls, Ontario, and founded the "Niagara Movement.
Unlike the other black institutions mentioned above, the "Niagara Movement" was primarily political in its objectives.
On the one hand, it strove to seize the leadership of the Afro-American community, taking it away from the more conciliatory emphasis of Booker T.
On the other hand, they wanted a platform from which to condemn, loudly and clearly, the white prejudice they found all about them. The organization deliberately tried to resurrect the spirit of the angry abolitionists immediately preceding the Civil War.
The meeting places of their three conventions were chosen for their symbolic value.
Niagara Falls was the terminal on the underground railway, the point at which runaways had reached freedom.
Whites were particularly upset by racially motivated acts of violence.
Lynchings reached a high point in American history at this time.
Between 1900 and 1910, there were 846 lynchings, in which 92 victims were white and 754 Negro.
Northern whites were especially perturbed as racial violence began to move into the North.
Previously they had viewed it as a Southern white man's problem. When a vicious race riot occurred in Springfield, Illinois, in 1908, this illusion was shattered.
William English Walling, the journalist, was shocked and wrote an impassioned article, "Race War in the North," which was published in The Independent. Walling's article, which was based on his visit to Springfield, brought several collaborators to his side.
In it, he contended that Southern racists were bringing the race war into the North and that the only alternative was to revive the spirit of abolitionism and to fight for racial equality.
The following year a group of concerned individuals, black and white, met in New York City and their meeting resulted in the formation of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
Those attending this meeting, besides Walling, included Oswald Garrison Villard, the grandson of William Lloyd Garrison.
Jane Addams, the founder of Hull House in Chicago, John Dewey, the philosopher, William Dean Howells, the editor of Harper's magazine, Mary White Ovington, a New York social worker, and Dr. Henry Moskowitz.
The Negro delegation consisted of W.
DuBois and most of the other members of the Niagara Movement.
At this meeting it was decided that the achievement of racial equality must be the major target of their attack.
In order to achieve this goal it was decided that their immediate priorities should include the enfranchisement of Negroes and the enforcement of the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments.
DuBois was the only black on its board and served as its director of publicity and research.
Most blacks and whites at the time believed that the N.A.A.C.P. was irresponsible for including so many of the members of the Niagara Movement in its membership.
Monroe Trotter and a few others, however, held that an interracial organization such as the N.A.A.C.P. could not be trusted to take a strong enough stand on important issues, and they refused to cooperate with it.
The N.A.A.C.P. began publication of its own Journal, Crisis, which was a basic part of its informational program.
Crisis was edited by W.
DuBois. The most important work of the Association was done by its legal department.
Its lawyers attacked the legal devices used by some states to disenfranchise Negroes.
In 1915, the Supreme Court declared, in Guinn v. United States, that the "grandfather clause" in the constitutions of both Maryland and Oklahoma was null and void because it contradicted the Fifteenth Amendment.
Two years later, in Buchanan v.
Warley, the court said that Louisville's ordinance requiring Negroes to live in specified sections of the city was unconstitutional.
In 1923, the N.A.A.C.P. came to the defense of a Negro who, it believed, had not received a fair trial.
Dempsey, the Supreme Court granted the defendant a new trial because the court which had convicted him of murder had exempted Negroes from serving on its Jury. Branches of the N.A.A.C.P. spread all across the country.
By 1921 there were more than 400 separate chapters, and the Association was still growing.
Its membership, whether white or black, tended to be middle-class and educated.
George Edmund Haynes, a Negro graduate student at Columbia University, was researching the economic conditions of New York City Negroes.
He was invited to present his findings to a Joint meeting of two city organizations which were probing the same problem.
Haynes and Eugene Kinckle Jones were its executive directors.
One of its sponsors was Booker T. Washington, who was more sympathetic with its orientation than he had been with either the Niagara Movement or the N.A.A.C.P., both of which were more political and aggressive.
The philanthropist Julius Rosenwald gave the League substantial financial aid.
The Urban League soon spread into other major cities and gained increasing importance as ever-growing numbers of Negroes migrated into Northern urban areas and needed assistance in making the adjustment.
American society had always contained a missionary dynamic.
The Puritan Fathers came to America to escape religious oppression and to establish what they believed would be the Kingdom of God.
While it appeared that all they wanted was space in which to be left alone, their conviction that they were building God's Kingdom implied a belief that their new society would prosper and spread.
If it were really the Kingdom of God, it could not be expected to remain an insignificant settlement on a distant and unimportant continent.
At the same time, European imperialism was gaining new vitality.
Businessmen were looking for new markets and for new sources of raw materials.
Patriots, in their turn, believed that they were being called upon to assume the "white man's burden" and to civilize and democratize the world.
Both drives seemed to coincide.
The Berlin Conference in 1885 divided those parts of Africa not yet annexed among the major European nations.
The point of the conference was to plan national exploits in such a way as to reduce conflicts.
In the course of a very few years, the rest of Africa was colonized by these nations. Africans, of course, were given no voice in the matter.
China, though it was not colonized, was also divided into spheres of economic influence. The United States was quick to join in this scramble.
Its influence, however, was limited largely to Asia and Latin America. This new imperialist expansion was not interpreted by its proponents as being exploitative.
Instead, they depicted it as bringing the blessing of civilization to the "underprivileged.
The concept of the "white man's burden" was particularly common in Britain and America.
The prevailing idea was that the white race, especially the Anglo-Saxon and Teutonic branches of it, had been especially blessed by God so that it could achieve industrialization and democratization.
At the same time, American commercial interests were searching for new markets and were making increasing investments in these very areas.
The merchants were looking for new markets to exploit, but the idealist rhetoric talked only in terms of benevolent paternalism. These trends came to a head in the Spanish-American War.
Conflicts had been increasing in Cuba between the Spanish authorities in control and the local citizens.
Americans became interested in several abortive uprisings which occurred on the island.
The brutal way in which the Spanish had suppressed them incensed the Americans.
The violence in Cuba also endangered American life and property--the result of increasing American investments.
Its real object was to protect American interests.
It was mysteriously blown up, and many of its crew were killed.
The cause of the explosion is still unknown.
The Negro participants served in segregated units.
These included the 9th and 10th Cavalry and the 24th and 25th Infantry units.
In the battle of San Juan Hill, the Negro cavalry opened the way for the Rough Riders' famous charge which was led by Theodore Roosevelt.
Spain gave up her sovereignty over Cuba, but its future status was not made clear.
American public opinion had become so wed to the cause of democracy in Cuba that the American government felt it could not take direct control of the island.
It was deemed necessary to establish a Cuban Republic, but it was obvious that America would exercise considerable influence over it.
Early in the century the Platt Amendment was passed by the U.
Congress, and Cuba was required to include it within her own constitution.
This gave the United States authority to intervene in Cuban affairs in order to maintain law and order.
S. also obtained Guantanamo Bay as a naval base in Cuba. In 1916 American marines landed in Santo Domingo to restore law and order there in the wake of a series of local uprisings.
Again, Americans wanted to protect their business interests in the island.
The American presence, however, only contributed to the total collapse of civil government, and the marines were not withdrawn until 1924.
American commercial influence continued and grew even after the soldiers left. Similarly, America intervened in the internal affairs of Haiti.
It began with the assumption of financial control of the Haitian government to help it achieve stability and, at the same time, to secure American investments.
In an attempt to maintain law and order, American intervention spread to include taking control of the country's police force.
S. established military rule in Haiti and this was not appreciated by the local citizens.
The marines were compelled to shoot some two thousand Haitians in the process of restoring peace.
The troops were not finally withdrawn from Haiti until 1934. In spreading the benefits of her civilization into the Caribbean, America acquired a colored empire which only served to complicate her own racial situation.
Blacks, however, played an important role in the acquisition of this territory.
American ministers to Haiti were usually Negroes, and Negro soldiers played a significant part in the Spanish-American War.
In their attempts to demonstrate their loyalty and patriotism, American Negroes unwittingly helped to bring more colored peoples under the sway of American racism. America's real involvement in world politics occurred with her entrance into the First World War.
The British and French had sought to give the war an ideological flavor in order both to stir up the patriotism of their own citizens and also to draw in support from other nations, especially the United States.
The war was portrayed as a conflict between democracy and authoritarianism.
Negroes were preoccupied with the racial harassments confronting them at home and seldom looked beyond the country's borders.
Once America became involved in the fighting, however, they were eager to demonstrate that they were patriotic and loyal citizens.
DuBois, who was as hostile and angry as any, came to support the war effort.
In an article which he wrote in Crisis, he called for his brothers to close ranks with the rest of American society and to present a solid front against the enemy.
This patriotic solidarity came in spite of the fact that segregation was creeping into the Federal Government itself.
President Taft, who had tried to broaden the base of the Republican Party in the South, had made some feeble beginnings at instituting segregation in federal facilities in Washington.
In 1913, Wilson the first Southern Democratic president since the Civil War, vastly expanded the process.
The N.A.A.C.P. expressed shock at Jim Crowism becoming an official part of the government in the nation's capital.
At the same time, the Civil Service required job applicants to file their photographs with their applications.
The N.A.A.C.P. charged that this was part of the spread of discriminatory practices in Washington, but the Civil Service denied it. When America declared war against Germany in April, 1917, only a few Negroes were members of the standing army.
However, many immediately rushed to enlist, but only a few were accepted.
Local enlistment officers were dubious about the ability and the loyalty of Negroes. Apparently their previous service record had been forgotten, When Congress passed the Selective Service Act in May, it was made to apply to all citizens alike.
During the course of the war, some 367,000 Negroes were called into military service.
This was 31 percent of those who had registered.
Meanwhile, only 26 percent of the white registrants were called.
Throughout the war, the Navy only accepted Negroes in menial jobs, and the Marine Corps barred them altogether. Training the Negro troops presented another problem.
No community welcomed an influx of hundreds or thousands of young Negro men.
The South, especially, was outraged when large numbers of "cocky" Negroes from the North descended upon some sleepy, peaceful town.
Segregation and discrimination within the military itself caused further irritations and triggered violence at more than one camp.
The 92nd, an all-Negro outfit, was trained at seven separate locations, and it was the only American unit never to come together before reaching the front.
The 93rd, another all-Negro unit, was never consolidated.
When it reached France, it served with various units of the French Army.
It had been sent overseas hastily, and its troops received most of their training in Europe.
Its men had largely been recruited from New York State, and they were sent to Spartanburg, South Carolina, for their training.
The local citizens deliberately picked a fight with the men in order to "put them in their place.
A riot was narrowly averted.
When they were shipped back north for training, they found themselves sharing a camp with white troops from the South.
Another incident almost occurred, and they were immediately sent overseas for training. Besides serving in segregated units, most of the Negro troops were assigned to menial tasks.
One third of the American stevedore force in Europe was Negro.
Nevertheless, many of them did become involved in the fighting and distinguished themselves heroically.
Besides receiving American awards, they were generously honored by the French.
The 369th was the first American unit to reach the Rhine, and the French praised it highly. Many of the Negro soldiers were surprised by the hospitality which they received in France.
Several stayed behind, after the war, to study in European universities.
In spite of the fact that many whites warned the French of dangers involved with associating with Negroes, especially white women with Negro men, the French were happy to have them share in the defense.
Many invited them into their homes.
In the meantime, rumors spread in America that Negro troops were taking unwise liberties with French women.
The only consideration which was given to Africa, however, was the disposal of the German colonies.
These were distributed among the victors.
This did nothing to give Africa back to the Africans; it only changed the identity of the European masters.
After beating and burning them, the mob went on to loot and burn Negro-owned homes in the community.
In 1906, a white mob raged out of control for several days in Atlanta, Georgia.
In the same year, the 25th Infantry in Brownsville, Texas, became involved in a riot with the white citizens of that town, and Roosevelt dismissed the whole battalion without honor.
In 1904, a riot occurred in Springfield, Ohio, much farther north than anyone would have expected.
A Negro, who had been charged with killing a white police officer, was seized from jail by an angry mob.
There, a white woman claimed to have been raped by a Negro.
Although she admitted that she had, in fact, been assaulted by a white man, the angry mob was only further enraged.
It ran out of control for several days, and the state's militia was called in to restore order.
Besides looting and burning, the mob boldly and deliberately lynched two of the city's responsible Negro citizens.
The leaders of the mob, as usual, went unpunished. Although DuBois had urged the Negroes to close ranks with white America during the war, white racists did not reciprocate.
An even worse race riot occurred in East St. Louis, Illinois, in 1917.
The white community was afraid that a mass influx of Negroes from the South was about to occur.
On one hand, Illinois Democrats played on racial prejudice to further their political interests.
They accused Republicans of intending to colonize large numbers of Negroes from the South in order to enlarge the Republican vote. On the other hand, labor unions feared that Negroes would be imported as strike breakers.
During an attempt to organize a union at the Aluminum Ore Company which led to a strike in April 1917 this atmosphere increased racial tensions.
In 1913, the company had hired no Negro workers at all. By 1916, there were two hundred Afro-American employees.
Within three months at the end of 1916 and the beginning of 1917, the company fired some two hundred whites while, at the same time, hiring approximately the same number of Negroes.
The city had been totally segregated, and the white citizens intended to keep it that way.
The school system had been segregated in spite of a state law of 1874 which forbade segregation in education.
Jim Crow was also standard in theaters, restaurants, and hotels in opposition to the 1885 law that had outlawed segregation in public accommodations.
Local citizens were afraid that the rumored influx of Negroes would drastically alter the situation.
Later investigation showed that the size of the migration had been vastly exaggerated. Tension surrounding the racial and labor conflict in East St. Louis exploded into a minor riot in May.
A Negro had accidentally wounded a white man during a liquor-store holdup but the story that was circulated was that an innocent young white girl had been shot and killed.
The white community, especially the striking workers, became an enraged mob which roamed the streets beating any Negroes it could find.
The mob also burned Negro-owned stores and homes.
The next day the National Guard arrived and, with the help of the police, searched the Negro community for weapons.
In spite of the fact that the mob had been white, it was the Negroes who were disarmed and arrested.
They came in another Ford sedan, and most of the officers were wearing civilian dress.
In the meantime, the Negro citizens had prepared for the return of the first car.
As the police entered the poorly lit street, they were met by a barrage of bullets. Almost all the officers were either killed or wounded.
Then, they took great delight in coldly and deliberately shooting them down as they fled.
It was reported that some of those who were shot were thrown back into the burning buildings, and others were thrown into the river.
Two children, between one and two years old, were found shot through the head.
At times, the mob would not let ambulances take away the wounded and dying.
They estimated the number of dead at a hundred, and the grand jury accepted their calculation.
It was also estimated that as many as 750 had been wounded.
The Guard held an investigation of the riot, and it exonerated the behavior of its soldiers.
The caption over the cartoon read "Why not make America safe?" When the Negro soldiers returned home from Europe, they brought new experiences and changed attitudes with them.
As soldiers, they had been taught to stand up and fight like men.
In Europe, they had been treated more like men than ever before.
The attitude of submissiveness which had been stamped on the Afro-American community by its slave mentality and which had been reinforced by the philosophy of Booker T.
Washington was undermined by this new sense of manhood.
When a wave of two dozen riots swept America in the summer of 1919, Negroes fought back as they had not done in East St. Louis.
Riots occurred in places as diverse as Longview, Texas, Washington, D.C., Omaha, Nebraska, and Chicago, Illinois. The worst riot of that bloody summer occurred in Chicago.
It began when a young Negro boy, swimming in Lake Michigan, crossed into a section of the water which had been traditionally reserved for whites.
White youths began throwing stones at him, and he drowned.
A later investigation showed that he had not been hit by any of these rocks.
Nevertheless, this incident triggered the tense racial situation in Chicago into an explosion.
Fighting broke out all over the city.
Whites pulled Negroes from streetcars and beat them openly.
The fighting raged for thirteen days.
At least thirty-eight people were killed.
Fifteen of these were white, and twenty-three were Negro.
Also, some five hundred people were injured of which the majority were Negro.
There were those within the Afro-American community who felt that a country which systematically disenfranchised a large minority group and which also tolerated widespread discrimination, segregation, and violence against that minority was not a secure democratic state.
At the same time, those who were responsible for much of this harassment and terror believed that violence was necessary precisely in order to protect democracy.
They believed that true democracy sprang from the virtue of a white, Anglo-Saxon, Protestant civilization, and they wanted to protect it against alien subversion. One of the main "protectors" of white American civilization was the Ku Klux Klan.
The original Klan had thrived in the deep South immediately after the Civil War.
In 1915, it underwent a revival.
Inspired by the migration of Afro-Americans from the South into the North and West as well as by the gigantic immigration of South and East Europeans, the Klan, beginning in Georgia, rapidly spread beyond the South into a national movement.
Confidently believing in the superiority of its own democratic way of life, America had thrown open its doors to the hungry and oppressed of Europe.
American society took pride in being the world's great melting pot.
However, many old-stock Americans did not view their society as being a cultural amalgam, and they expected that the new European immigrants, as well as the Afro-Americans, would want to be assimilated into their society as it already existed.
This sense of terror drove them to take extreme action in its defense. The invisible empire of the Ku Klux Klan was the most militant and best organized of several defenders of this kind of American patriotism.
It built its power on a series of appeals which had deep roots throughout American life.
During the 1920s, anti-Semitism was widespread, and many respectable hotels and clubs were closed to Jews.
Discrimination against foreign-born Americans was prevalent.
Many patriotic and artistic societies were exclusively for native-born Americans.
Griffith based his movie on material taken from two novels by Thomas Dixon: The Leopard's Spots and The Klansman.
At first Birth of a Nation was censored in some cities in the North and West for being inflammatory because of its racial attitudes.
This angered many who claimed that it was, in fact, a truthful account of the Klan.
Concerned by the official opposition to the movie, Dixon contacted an old college friend who was then occupying the White House.
President Woodrow Wilson consented to a special White House showing of the picture.
After the White House showing, opposition throughout the North and West disintegrated, and the movie went on to become a gigantic success.
It grossed eighteen million dollars.
Simmons chose the opening of the movie in Atlanta, Georgia, as the time to launch his Klan revival.
His father had been a member of the original Klan.
When the revival began in 1915, the Klan was primarily a fraternal, Caucasian-supremacy organization without the violence normally associated with it.
In the middle of a speech, he first drew a gun from one pocket and laid it on the table before him. Then, he pulled a second gun from another pocket and placed it beside the first one.
Opening his jacket, he unfastened a cartridge belt and draped it ostentatiously across the table.
Finally, he reached into still another pocket, pulled out a knife and plunged it into the wood between the two guns.
With this flamboyant gesture, he issued a challenge to all "niggers," Catholics, Jews, and all others.
Defending the values of American society was to them so important as to condone the use of violence and murder.
By 1921, Klan membership had soared to 100,000 but its real growth had only just begun, As it came under public attack, its popularity increased.
Newspapers and Congressmen charged that the Klan had violated the First, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth and Thirteenth Amendments to the Constitution.
By 1923 Klan membership was estimated between two and three million. When it was at its zenith, the Klan used violence, intimidation, and parades to make its presence known in the community.
Its members were prominent on police forces, sheriff departments, and various other local branches of government.
In the early 1920s, Klan support was responsible for electing a handful of senators and several Congressmen.
Finally, in 1924, an attempt was made to capture both political parties on the national level.
Failing to get its nominee chosen as Vice President on the Republican ticket, the Klan swung its full attention to the Democratic convention in Madison Square Garden in New York.
Anti-Klan forces at the convention were also strong.
The convention leadership made the attempt to keep the issue in the background, but a minority report on the platform resulted in forcing the convention to condemn the Klan by name.
The convention was split in two.
As a result, it took the party nine days and one hundred and twenty-three ballots before it was successful in choosing its national candidates.
In the following year, the Klan again tried to make its presence felt on the national scene.
It held a march of its members in Washington.
Forty thousand robed and hooded Klansmen marched down Pennsylvania Avenue in a display of strength while thousands more cheered and watched. The violence which, for a short time, had helped the Klan to grow, would eventually contribute to its decline.
It appealed to public animosity against Catholics, Jews, and Negroes, but its own vitriolic crusade swung segments of that same public opinion in favor of its victims.
The Klan revival was particularly disheartening to Negroes, who had assumed that the Klan was dead.
While slavery was gone, brutality and intimidation remained.
Half a century after the demise of the original Klan, it had risen again and, this time, had become a nationwide phenomenon.
In the twentieth century the question was how to achieve equality.
Frederick Douglass had been in the vanguard of the fight to overthrow the peculiar institution.
Later, he was among the first to realize that Emancipation had not solved all the problems.
It was his belief that the forces of racism and indifference were responsible for relegating the ex-slave to a second-class status.
When the Federal Government terminated Reconstruction without providing his people with the tools for competing in American society, Douglass's disappointment was severe. At the turn of the century the focus of the problems facing Afro-Americans had changed.
Slavery had been abolished, but not race prejudice.
The elimination of this scourge became the basis for a new drive.
Douglass, who for a half century had been looked upon as the spokesman for his people, was too old to tackle the task of ending segregation and prejudice based on race.
When he died early in 1895, the Afro-American community was left without leadership capable of uniting the diverse elements within the movement.
The pressing need was for black men and women to escape physical violence and to find acceptance with dignity, and it couldn't wait. However, within this community there were many who were capable of leadership.
What was lacking were the instruments of leadership.
Dozens of Afro-Americans, however, were not content to accept the degrading position which had been assigned to them.
Utilizing the limited resources within their own community, new leadership evolved and began to debate the issues of the day.
Before Emancipation the problems had seemed simple.
All attention was focused on the abolition of slavery, and the only point of controversy centered on the means by which it should be achieved.
But segregation and discrimination were not so easily defined and attacked.
The debates which ensued widened to include disagreement over both means and ends.
A vocal minority, discouraged by the emasculating effects of discrimination, believed that they should withdraw from white society altogether.
Some of them wanted to return to Africa and to assist its inhabitants in their liberation from European imperialism.
Some of them wanted to join the white society, accept its Euro-American cultural values, forget their past, and assimilate into the mainstream of American life.
Still others, while wanting to find their place within the American nation, insisted that the country must be transformed into a genuinely pluralistic society.
While they wanted to be integrated into the nation, they did not want to join the white society.
Instead of assimilating into Anglo-Saxon culture, they wanted American civilization to become multi-racial, multi-ethnic, and highly fluid. The means which were proposed to achieve these differing ends were highly diverse.
Some argued that the ex-slave must first demonstrate his readiness to be accepted within white society.
Others claimed that they need only demand the rights which were legally theirs.
Four of these leaders will be discussed below.
Their ideas present a broad overview of the concepts to be found within the Afro-American community. Booker T.
DuBois, Marcus Garvey, and A.
Philip Randolph represented a wide variety of approaches, their ideas forming the total spectrum of the thrust for remaking the black role in white society. Booker T.
Washington: The Trumpet of Conciliation Within a few months of Douglass's death, a new leader was thrust upon the Afro-American community.
Unlike Douglass, who believed in self-assertion, Booker T.
Washington developed a leadership style based on the model of the old plantation house servant.
He used humility, politeness, flattery, and restraint as a wedge with which he hoped to split the wall of racial discrimination.
His conciliatory approach won the enthusiastic support of the solid South as well as that of influential Northern politicians and industrialists, Their backing gained him a national reputation and provided him with easy access to the press.
Members of his own community were filled with pride to see one of their own treated with such respect by wealthy and influential leaders of white America.
When Theodore Roosevelt entertained Washington for dinner at the White House, the Afro-American community was overjoyed.
However, some whites believed that it had been a dangerous breach of etiquette.
Nevertheless, there were those within the Afro-American community who were not enthusiastic about their new leader.
They believed that conciliation was the road to surrender and not the way to victory. Booker T.
Washington was born into slavery on April 5, 1856.
His mother had been a slave in Franklin County, Virginia.
The identity of his white father remains unknown.
After Emancipation the family moved to West Virginia where it struggled to achieve a livelihood.
Young Booker attended a school for the children of ex-slaves while, at the same time, holding down a full-time job in the mines.
As a courteous, cooperative, hard-working young man he secured a job cleaning and doing other tasks around the house of one of the mine owners.
Undaunted by lack of tuition, he insisted that he could do some useful work to cover his expenses.
When he was directed to clean the adjoining room as a kind of entrance test, his response was to apply himself to the task.
Armstrong strongly believed that they should not be given what they could earn for themselves.
Louis Adams, a skilled freedman, had made a political deal which led to the establishment of the Tuskegee Institute.
In return for his delivery of the Negro vote, the state legislature provided minimal funds for educating ex-slaves.
The roof of the building which they were using leaked and the students often had to study with umbrellas over their heads. In effect, the institute became a kind of commune.
The students grew their own food on the adjoining land, and they erected their own buildings.
They sold their excess produce to the citizens of Tuskegee. They also developed skills in carpentry, brick-making, and a score of other trades and sold their products to the community.
They found that Tuskegee students were hard-working, courteous, and humble instead of being self-assertive and articulate.
They realized that their fears of educating the ex-slave had been unfounded. In an attempt to lure more business and industry into the South, political leaders scheduled a trade exposition for Atlanta, Georgia, in 1895.
A delegation was sent to the nation's capital to request financial aid from a Congressional comittee.
Washington was included in the delegation as a token that there was backing from all portions of the community for the project.
They were impressed with his racial views, particularly when he stated that character development was more important than political agitation.
This was a position which they could whole-heartily endorse. The Cotton States Exposition which was held in Atlanta in 1895 strove to project an image of the South as a peaceful and prosperous region.
It tried to represent the South as a desirable location for future financial investment.
Part of the peaceful image which it tried to create was a picture of racial harmony.
The Exposition had a pavilion which was built by ex-slaves and which displayed their products, and it was decided to invite a Negro to speak at the Exposition.
The choice fell on Booker T. Washington.
His famous speech, which later became known as "The Atlanta Compromise", lay heavily on his mind for many weeks before its delivery. He wanted to cement racial relations as well as to advance the status of his people.
He was afraid of saying something which might undermine the cause. Washington's speech was built around two graphic images.
In the first, he told the story of a ship at sea which was out of fresh water.
It signaled a passing vessel that it needed fresh water.
The other ship told them to let down their bucket.
Finally, after much consternation, the crew complied.
The second picture which he used was that of the hand.
He pointed out that while the hand was one, the fingers were separate.
Similarly, he suggested that national unity and social segregation could go together. Washington built on the image of the ship's needing fresh water to persuade Negroes to start where they were in building their future.
Cast it down in agriculture, mechanics, in commerce, in domestic service, and in the professions.
No race can prosper till it learns that there is as much dignity in tilling a field as in writing a poem.
It is at the bottom of life we must begin, and not at the top.
Cast it down among the eight millions of Negroes whose habits you know, whose fidelity and love you have tested in days when to have proved treacherous meant the ruin of your firesides.
He told the audience that "In all things that are purely social we can be as separate as the fingers, yet as one as the hand in all things essential to mutual progress.
This proposal brought forth thunderous applause.
He went on to say that the wisest in his race were aware that fighting for social equality was folly.
The ex-slave, he believed, must first struggle and prepare himself for the assumption of his rights, which were privileges to be earned.
Economic opportunity was far more important than either social equality or political rights.
This, coupled with our material prosperity, will bring into our beloved South a new heaven and a new earth." When he finished, the audience applauded wildly.
Governor Bullock rushed across the platform and shook his hand.
The next day he was greeted and praised enthusiastically on the Atlanta streets.
President Cleveland, after having read the speech, wrote Washington and thanked him for what he had said.
The following year Harvard University granted him an honorary Master's degree.
The press both North and South quoted all or parts of the speech, and most of the newspapers carried appreciative editorials.
The Charleston News and Courier, for example said "His skin is colored, but his head is sound, and his heart is in the right place." Money poured in to finance the Tuskegee Institute.
Overnight Washington was skyrocketed to national fame. However, there were those who did not appreciate their new leader's call to conciliation.
He was a professor at Roger Williams University in Nashville, Tennessee, and later was to become president of Atlanta University.
The following year, after carefully considering Washington's speech, he made an address of his own to his colleagues in Nashville.
He bitterly attacked the compromise and said that he believed it to be cowardly for a black man to admit that his people were not striving for equality.
He said that if he did not have the right to spend a dollar in the opera house and to do those things that other free men do, he was not free.
Hope was not content with demanding equality in vague terms.
He insisted that what he wanted was social equality.
Instead of urging conciliation, he advocated that the Afro-Americans should be restless and dissatisfied.
When their discontent broke through the wall of discrimination, then there would be no need to plead for Justice.
Then they would be men.
A decade later, those who opposed Washington's leadership decided that they needed to organize and coordinate their activities. John Hope, W.
DuBois, Monroe Trotter, and several others wanted to speak out more vigorously against racial discrimination, segregation, and lynching.
To do this, they created the Niagara Movement to challenge the political domination of Washington's Tuskegee machine.
Because he was the recognized advisor to politicians and philanthropists, this was a difficult task.
Hope's criticism resulted in the diminution of financial support to Atlanta University where Hope was president. W.
As a result of this tender of the palm-branch, what has been the return?
In these years there have occurred: 1.
The disenfranchisement of the Negro.
The legal creation of a distinct status of civil inferiority for the Negro.
He believed that Washington's policy had replaced manliness with a shallow materialism.
Monroe Trotter edited the Boston Guardian which was one of the most militant papers published in the Afro-American community.
Trotter used it as a platform from which to attack Washington's leadership.
On one occasion when Washington was speaking in Boston, Trotter was among those arrested for creating a disturbance during the lecture.
When the Niagara Movement was dissolved in 1909 and most of its leaders joined with liberal whites in founding the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, Trotter refused to follow them.
In 1912 he wrote an article for Century magazine entitled "Is the Negro Having a Fair Chance?
In it he criticized the fact that more money was appropriated for the education of whites than of blacks.
He also criticized the convict lease system which had developed in the South.
His dissatisfaction with segregation became clear when he pointed out that although Jim Crow facilities might be separate they were never equal. Another article which he had written was published after his death in the New Republic.
In it he described the terrible effects of segregation.
He said that it meant inferior sidewalks, inferior street-lighting, inferior sewage facilities, and inferior police protection.
Such lacks made for difficult neighborhoods in which to raise families in decency. If Washington's program was a sellout, as many believed, it is becoming increasingly clear that he did not intend his compromise as an end in itself.
He believed that it could be the means to a much broader future. When he spoke before the Congressional comittee early in 1895, he expressed his opposition to disenfranchisement on a racial basis.
His apparent acceptance of it at Atlanta was only a tactical maneuver.
In an article which he wrote in 1898, he said that he believed that the time would come when his people would be given all of their rights in the South.
He said that they would receive the privileges due to any citizen on the basis of ability, character, and material possessions.
He was, in effect, approving disenfranchisement of the poor and ignorant in both races.
When Negroes did receive what was due them as citizens, he said, it would come from Southern whites as the result of the natural evolution of mutual trust and acceptance.
Artificial external pressure, he insisted, would not help. The Atlanta Compromise was to be the means to an end and not an end in itself.
If the ex-slave would start at the bottom, develop manners and friendliness, Washington believed that he could make his labor indispensable to white society.
Acceptance of segregation was, at that time, a necessary part of good behavior.
If the whites, in turn, opened the doors of economic opportunity to the ex-slave instead of importing more European immigrants, Washington said that the nation would have an English-speaking non-striking labor force.
Gradually, individual Afro-Americans would gain trust, acceptance, and respect.
The class line based on color would be replaced by one based on intelligence and morality. Washington seemed to be unaware that a race which began at the bottom could stay at the bottom.
In an age of rapid urbanization and industrialization a strategy which emphasized craft and agriculture was drastically out of step with the economic realities.
Moreover the nation did not accept its part of the compromise.
The flood of immigration continued unabated for another two decades.
When Afro-Americans were given opportunities in industry, it became clear that there were black jobs and white jobs.
The former were always poorly paid. There were two bases for Washington's belief that the Negro should start at the bottom and work his way up.
The nineteenth-century economic creed had taught that hard work unlocked the door which led from rags to riches.
This teaching was also reinforced by Washington's own experience. Born in slavery and poverty, he rose from obscurity to fame and influence through honesty and industry.
However, Washington seemed unaware that the most which his policy could ever achieve was a token acceptance which would leave the Negro masses behind. W.
DuBois: The Trumpet of Confrontation In contrast to Washington's policy of conciliation and compromise, W.
DuBois believed that it was necessary to act like men in order to be accepted as men, Speaking the truth as he saw it, loudly, clearly, and fearlessly, was to him the minimum criterion for manliness.
This led to a contrasting style of leadership.
Where Washington had been polite and ingratiating, DuBois was self-assertive and, frequently, aggressive. Where Washington had tried to win the trust of white bigots, DuBois insisted on confronting them with the truth as he saw it.
Where Washington had counseled peace, DuBois clamored for action. The contrasting leadership styles of Washington and DuBois were rooted in their differing life experiences.
DuBois was born in February, 1868, in Great Barrington, Massachusetts.
His grandfather had procured his own freedom through participating in the American Revolution.
DuBois received his elementary and secondary education in an integrated setting which prevented his becoming conscious of the color bar.
However, receiving an integrated college education was not so simple.
Instead he headed South to Fisk University to further his education, There, the daily insults of discrimination and segregation came to him as a shock.
He had not been trained to accept them, and these daily harassments filled him with anger and hostility.
He came to believe that bigotry and discrimination were rooted in ignorance and that scholarship could destroy them by exposing them to the light of truth.
Soon afterwards, while teaching at the University of Pennsylvania, he conducted extensive sociological research which resulted in "The Philadelphia Negro".
Atlanta University invited DuBois to come there and teach and to conduct sociological studies.
There he began a research department which was devoted to studying the problems of the Afro-American community and which resulted in the production of a dozen works. Besides his interest in scholarly research, DuBois developed a theory of racial leadership.
For a people to advance, he believed, they needed leaders.
If they failed to develop such people of their own, they would be guided by others.
DuBois was doubtful whether his people should entrust themselves to white leaders.
He agreed with Washington that the masses would have to make their living with their hands, and he also believed that it was important for them to develop skills which would help them.
While wanting to assist the masses, however, he argued that the important priority, at the beginning, must be given to training a leadership elite which he called "the talented tenth.
The Negro race, like all races, is going to be saved by its exceptional men.
This influential aristocracy would include scholars who would unearth the facts about the race and its problems.
It would provide leaders who would examine those facts, make key decisions, and lead the race forward.
In 1905 DuBois and several others had founded the Niagara Movement to provide a common platform from which to speak.
They also intended it to become the framework within which they could exchange their ideas.
In it "the talented tenth" tried to oppose the policies of conciliation and submission which were being propounded by Booker T.
While continuing his interest in scholarly research, his new job involved him in the aggressive exposure and condemnation of discrimination.
He became editor of "Crisis" which he developed into a journal of protest.
When it was formed, Monroe Trotter refused to join it, claiming that its white membership would blunt its efficiency and militancy.
The fact that for many years DuBois was the only black on its executive board led many to wonder whether it had genuine biracial participation in its decision making. Later, Ralph J.
Bunche, professor of political science, U.
N. diplomat, and winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, attacked the N.A.A.C.P. on the same grounds.
He argued that its dependence on white middle-class leaders, to provide financial backing, the sympathy of a large segment of the public, and on favorable court decisions prevented it from achieving significant results.
He claimed that whenever a controversial crisis arose, it would be prohibited from taking a truly militant position.
He claimed that the Constitution was a brief, general document which always required interpretation to relate it to specific, contemporary issues.
This interpretation, he maintained, was always shared by public opinion.
While the courts' understanding of the Constitution might not always conform precisely to the majority opinion, the influential, vocal, and dominant segment of the public inevitably influenced the courts' thinking on important subjects.
While in individual cases it might even contradict this force, in the long run the Constitution could never be more than what the vocal majority wanted it to be.
Bunche believed that the N.A.A.C.P. thinking was always sensitive to the feelings of the white middle class, and therefore could never afford to alienate that group.
Washington, he felt that it could not afford to be as militant as was necessary.
At about the same time DuBois, himself, became disillusioned with the gradual conciliatory approach of the N.A.A.C.P.
While he still wanted to work for a integrated society, he had lost faith in the effectiveness of a biracial organization to achieve significant change.
In an article which he wrote in Crisis before resigning from the N.A.A.C.P., he suggested that black separatism or black unity could provide a more solid front with which to attack discrimination and segregation than cooperation with white society.
His goal, he insisted, was still to make ten million of his people free.
He wanted to see the Afro-American community develop control over its own churches, schools, social clubs, and businesses.
This was not, DuBois insisted, a surrender to segregation.
He believed that a community which controlled its own basic institutions was in a better position to make its own decisions and work for its own advancement.
This solidarity and cooperation was necessary to achieve significant change resulting in an integrated society.
Indirectly, he admitted that this was a shift away from his concept of "the talented tenth.
The assumption that an educated and cultured elite would be accepted within white society had proved to be erroneous.
To the contrary, he noted, whites often feared educated blacks as much or more than uneducated ones.
The talented tenth" had not even gained token acceptance.
Therefore DuBois shifted to a concept of a group solidarity instead of an elite leadership.
This concept of group cooperation must not be confused with that of Washington.
We have got to stop this and learn that on such a program they cannot build manhood.
No, by God, stand erect in a mud-puddle and tell the white world to go to hell, rather than lick boots in a parlor." Both Walter White and James Weldon Johnson took on the task of countering DuBois's position.
Johnson argued that DuBois ended where Washington began.
He noted that the conflict between integration into a biracial society and withdrawal into black separatism had existed throughout American history.
There had always been a minority who wanted to build a separate community, but he said that what was favored by the majority was to gain entrance into American society.
Yet the daily insults which were felt even by the most avid integrationists led them to curse white society and, at times, to consider retreat into isolationism.
According to his point of view, Johnson pointed out, isolationism had to be based on economics and although one could talk about black capitalism and could even develop some prospering businesses, the economic realities favored mass production and economic interdependence.
Separate black institutions were always contingent institutions which were subservient to the country as a whole.
Therefore they could never really be free or independent. The separate society would always be subject to external control by the larger economic and political institutions on which it relied.
Johnson also noted that integrationists like himself had been charged with failing to see the intensity of the institutional racism which existed all about them.
He denied this and claimed that racism and discrimination were patently obvious.
To the contrary, he suggested that the real danger was in overemphasizing their importance and becoming paranoid. After the Second World War, DuBois Joined the N.A.A.C.P. staff for another short period.
However, his disillusionment with society had deepened, and he was ready to consider even more radical solutions than before.
He had become increasingly convinced that racism was a world problem and not merely an American problem.
The series of Pan-African Congresses which he had helped to organize forced him to see a connection between American racism and European imperialism in Africa.
At the same time, communism was representing itself as the foe of both racism and imperialism, and for many of the oppressed peoples throughout the world the communist claim had become attractive.
To the N.A.A.C.P. it seemed that DuBois's new "pink" ideas and associations were not good for its image, and it asked him to resign.
The government charged DuBois with failing to register the "Peace Information Center", where he was employed, as an agent for a foreign principal.
Although acquitted, the harassment deepened his cynicism and hostility.
Finally, he became a communist, and he moved to Ghana in 1960.
He died there in 1963.
As a young scholar, DuBois had begun by believing that reason and research would dispel ignorance and prejudice.
Obviously, prejudice was not so easily eradicated by reason alone.
The talented tenth," which was to lead the Afro-American community into the mainstream of American life, had not been successful.
White bigots were especially antagonized by educated blacks.
When DuBois had advocated black solidarity, it had failed to take root because the intellectuals had become alienated from the masses.
The black bourgeoisie had been hindered by their color from assimilating into white society, and their newly acquired education, values, and middle-class style of life prevented them from returning to their people.
Finally, DuBois's work with the N.A.A.C.P., while it achieved some significant results, failed to bring about the kind of structural social change he desired.
Despairing of bring about racial advancement in America, DuBois decided to work for it in Africa. Marcus Garvey: The Trumpet of Pride Marcus Garvey's personality differed markedly from that of both Booker T. Washington and W.
Washington's image was one of humility and courageousness bordering, many believed, on obsequiousness.
DuBois projected the picture of a self-confident, hostile, and reserved individual.
In contrast, Garvey was easy-going and flamboyant.
The personalities of both Washington and DuBois minimized the fact that they were black.
On one hand, Washington appeared to be a man who knew his place and who did not intrude as an individual or a Negro into any situation.
On the other hand, DuBois had shaken off the habits of both the "house nigger" and the "field nigger" in order to adopt the characteristics of a cold intellectual which was more in keeping with the Anglo-Saxon character.
Garvey, however, flaunted his blackness wherever he went.
Black pride and black identity were the cornerstones of his philosophy, and they vibrated through everything he said and did.
He was not ashamed of the personality characteristics of the lower classes, and he readily identified with them.
It was the black middle class, which had adopted the life style of the mainstream of white society, that earned his scorn. Marcus Garvey was born in St. Anne's Bay, Jamaica, in August, 1887.
His parents were of unmixed African descent.
His ancestors had belonged to the Maroons, a group of slaves who had escaped and established their own community in the Jamaican hills.
They fought so well and had been so thoroughly organized that the British found it necessary to grant them their independence in 1739.
Garvey was very proud of this heritage and of his unmixed ancestry.
Jamaican society was structured hierarchically along color lines.
The whites were at the top, mulattoes in the middle, and blacks at the bottom.
The mulattoes enjoyed displaying and projecting their superiority over the blacks.
His leadership ability became evident when, during a walkout, the workers chose him to lead the strike.
He had been the only foreman to join the workers, and the company later black-listed him for it.
In 1912 he crossed the Atlantic and spent some time in London.
There he met large numbers of Africans and became interested in their plight as well. While he was there, he was influenced by a Negro Egyptian author named Duse Mohammed Ali.
His ideas further intensified Garvey's interest in Africa.
At the same time, Garvey read Booker T.
When he returned to Jamaica, he determined to establish an organization to work for the improvement of the conditions of black people the world over.
The result was the founding, in 1914, of the "Universal Negro Improvement and Conservation Association and African Communities League". In 1916, Garvey came to the United States to solicit the support of Afro-Americans.
He had hoped to get the backing of Booker T.
Washington with whom he had already corresponded, but, unfortunately, Washington died the previous year. In the United States Garvey found the Afro-American community ready to support his program of encouraging aggressive racial pride.
The hopes which had accompanied the end of slavery, half a century earlier, had turned to ashes.
Then, thousands moved from the rural South to the urban North to escape the growth of segregation and to find economic advancement.
Urban whites resented the influx of rural blacks from the South who were pouring into their cities, and they tried to confine the newcomers to dilapidated, older neighborhoods.
To do this, they were quite willing to resort to violence, and, between 1917 and 1921 Chicago was struck with a rash of house bombings as whites tried to hold the line.
During these years, there was one racially motivated bombing every twenty days. In the midst of such conditions, white America did not seem very beautiful, and black pride, black identity, and black solidarity had an appeal which was novel.
Chapters of the Universal Negro Improvement Association sprang up all across the country.
Although there has been considerable debate about the number of members in the U.N.I.A., it was clearly the largest mass organization in Afro-American history.
Its membership has been estimated between two and four million.
In any case, its sympathizers and well-wishers were ubiquitous.
The "respectable" N.A.A.C.P. never reached such grass-roots support, and even with its white liberal financing, its capital was much smaller than that which Garvey was able to tap from the lower-class blacks alone. Garvey advocated a philosophy of race redemption.
He said that blacks needed a nation of their own where they could demonstrate their abilities and develop their talents.
He believed that every people should have its own country.
The white man had Europe, and the black man should have Africa.
Race redemption did not mean that all blacks must return to Africa.
However, when there was a prosperous, independent African nation, blacks throughout the world would be treated with respect.
He noted that Englishmen and Frenchmen were not lynched, but that blacks, in contrast, were treated like lepers.
With the exception of Booker T.
Washington, they had all advocated social equality, intermarriage, and fraternization.
Garvey said that these only led to increased racial friction, He argued that racial purity for both whites and blacks was superior to racial integration, Blacks should also be proud of their race and their ancestry.
Africa was not a dark and degenerate continent; instead it was a place of which to be proud. To demonstrate this, Garvey adopted African clothes and hair style long before they became popular.
The black bourgeoisie was shocked and ashamed by his blatant display.
Whites were totally incapable of understanding why anyone would try to glorify blackness and the African heritage.
To them, he seemed merely a clown.
However, to the black masses who had no hope of achieving middle-class respectability, his pride in blackness came as a release.
Instead of a life buried in shame, he offered them pride and dignity.
Instead of being considered "nobodies," he gave them a sense of identity.
In place of weakness, he offered solidarity and strength.
These ideas spread through the ghettoes of large American urban centers like a fever.
In 1920 the Universal Negro Improvement Association held its annual convention at Madison Square Garden in New York City. There were 25,000 delegates in attendance.
Garvey told them that he planned to organize the four hundred million blacks of the world into one powerful unit and to plant the banner of freedom in Africa.
Larger businesses included a printing house and a steamship line.
The New York World, which was begun in 1918, was the only black daily in existence at that time.
After its demise, Garvey began The Black Man, which was published monthly.
Although most of these businesses only served to sink Negro roots deeper in American society, the purpose of the Black Star Steamship Line was, eventually, to provide a means of transportation for those who desired to return to Africa.
The black middle class felt that Garvey was hurting its image.
White politicians were nervous about the existence of such a large and potentially powerful organization, especially when it was led by a man like Garvey whom they could not understand.
When the steamship line ran into financial trouble, many were convinced that Garvey had been defrauding the ignorant masses. After a power struggle within the U.N.I.A., Eason, who had led the fight, was murdered in New Orleans.
Two Garveyites were accused of the crime, and opposition to the movement grew even stronger.
Finally, with the urging of middle-class Negroes, the government brought Garvey to trial for using the mails to defraud.
He insisted on being his own lawyer, and he took great pleasure in harassing the witnesses and haranguing the jury.
When he realized that this was undermining his own case, he began taking advice from a white lawyer.
Nevertheless, he was fined $1,000 and given a sentence of up to five years in prison.
In 1925, he was sent to the Atlanta Penitentiary.
At that point, many of his opponents had second thoughts about his case and asked the government to reopen it.
Garvey tried to establish a worldwide movement with its base in Jamaica, but a power fight for control with the New York leadership developed.
The outbreak of the Second World War further diminished the influence of his organization.
Garvey died in London in June, 1940. Both James Weldon Johnson and W.
Therefore Garvey's program could not achieve the kind of freedom and equality which it claimed. Johnson maintained that it would still be subject to oppression from white imperialism.
As such, the nation would only be an underdeveloped area dependent on external financing and continually subjected to economic exploitation.
Johnson claimed that a separate African nation would not provide the kind of power base which Garvey promised. Although Garvey had, overnight, created the largest mass organization in Afro-American history, it crumbled almost as quickly as it had been built.
The movement had been overly dependent on his personality. However, Garvey cannot be dismissed so easily.
Although his movement disintegrated rapidly, the interest in black identity and black pride which he had sparked, lingered on.
Lacking a structure within which to operate, it was not very obvious to the external observer.
Nevertheless, his ideas have clearly provided the spawning ground from which more recent organizations have developed. A.
Philip Randolph: The Trumpet of Mobilization The leadership style of A.
Philip Randolph differed from that of Washington, DuBois, and Garvey.
His interest in providing jobs and skills for the working class was akin to that of Washington.
His aggressive outspoken manner was more like that of DuBois.
While lacking the flamboyant style of Garvey, he was able to work among the ranks of the working class and gain their acceptance.
He, too, has demonstrated considerable ability in mass organization.
Like DuBois, he wanted to use black solidarity as a wedge with which to break through discrimination into a biracial society and not as an end in itself. Asa Philip Randolph was born in Crescent City, Florida, in 1889.
He was raised in a strict religious home.
His father was a local minister but he also had to hold down another full-time job in order to support his family.
Early in the century, Randolph moved north and attended City College in New York.
During the First World War, Randolph, with Chandler Owen, edited The Messenger and made it into an outspoken vehicle for their own opinions.
In its pages, they espoused a radical, American brand of democratic socialism.
They supported the International Workers of the World, which many viewed as being alien and communistic, and they questioned the advisability of Negroes supporting the war effort.
They were charged with undermining the national defense, and they spent some time in Jail.
Both advocated a working-class solidarity of blacks and whites which would resist exploitation by capitalism.
In their view, every nonunion man, black or white, was a potential scab and a potential threat to every union man, black or white.
While the white and black dogs were fighting over the bone, they pointed out, the yellow capitalist dog ran off with it.
The Messenger encouraged blacks to join unions, and it tried hard to persuade the unions to eliminate discrimination.
The view they propagated was that unions could not afford to be based on the color line; instead they should be based on a class line. Randolph and Owen attacked Samuel Gompers and the A.
F. of L. for failing to be truly biracial.
Randolph criticized DuBois and the N.A.A.C.P. for their lack of concern with the real day-to-day problems of the masses.
He charged that the N.A.A.C.P. was led by people who were neither blacks nor workers, and that they were incapable, therefore, of articulating the needs of the masses.
He argued that an organization for the welfare of the Irish would never be led by Jews.
Therefore, he suggested that an organization for the welfare of Blacks should not be led by whites.
He was especially critical of the gradualist, peaceful policy which DuBois appeared to support during the early years of the N.A.A.C.P.
He questioned DuBois's professed stand against violence and revolution. Randolph said: "Doubtless DuBois is the only alleged leader of an oppressed group of people in the world today who condemns revolution.
To Randolph, violence and revolution were not anti-American, but were justified by the Declaration of Independence. During the twenties, Randolph tried several schemes to increase black and white cooperation in unions.
Along with Chandler Owen, he founded the National Association for the Promotion of Unionism among Negroes.
The most successful of Randolph's efforts came in 1925 when he established the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters.
The Brotherhood appeared to demonstrate the futility of his basic thesis.
Randolph, who believed in biracial unionism, had established, in the Brotherhood, an organization which, by the nature of the occupation, was to be an exclusively black union.
He found himself being pushed relentlessly away from biracial unionism into supporting racial organizations for racial advancements. In 1936, he played a key role in forming the National Negro Congress.
It was a broad alliance of all kinds of groups to advance the welfare of the race.
Although it did not receive the backing of the N.A.A.C.P., the Urban League, an even more conservative organization, became a cornerstone in the Congress.
The Urban League has always been primarily interested in securing employment for the Negro working class.
During the thirties, the communists adopted a united-front policy, and they tried to infiltrate the N.N.C.
The Afro-American community was eager to support the war effort, particularly because it meant fighting Hitler's racism.
But they were also eager to find jobs.
However, defense industries in America continued to display their own brand of racial discrimination.
Many of them said quite openly that, while they were willing to hire blacks, they would only give them menial positions regardless of their skill and training.
It became clear that racism had to be fought at home and abroad. Many tried to get the government to take action, but it seemed more concerned with protecting its political image and with avoiding alienating the party's financial backers.
In January, 1941, Randolph suggested a mass march on Washington to demand government action against discrimination both in government services and in defense industry.
The idea took root, and a mass march was being organized for July.
On June 25, 1941, President Roosevelt issued Executive Order 8802 which forbade further discrimination either in government services or defense industries, on the grounds of race, creed, or nationality.
While some discrimination still continued, the order and the Fair Employment Practices Commission, which resulted from it, played an important role in opening large numbers of new jobs to the Afro-American community.
The planned march, which will be discussed more fully in a later chapter, was then called off.
Although the march was canceled, Randolph hoped to keep the March on Washington Movement alive.
He wanted to create a permanent mobilized community.
This, too, failed to materialize, but, if it had not been for the war, his efforts might have been more successful.
In September, 1942, Randolph called a meeting of the March on Washington Movement before which he outlined his program.
Rights would not be granted; they must be taken if need be.
His plan was to organize a permanent mass movement on a nationwide basis and to conduct protests, marches, and boycotts.
This was an adaptation of some of Gandhi's techniques to the Afro-American problem. The March on Washington Movement was to be an all-Negro movement.
Yet, Randolph did not intend it to be anti-white.
He pointed to the fact that every organization must have its own purposes, that Catholic groups concentrated on their interests in the same way as labor groups strove to gain their objectives.
Any oppressed people must assume the major responsibility for furthering their goals.
They might accept help and cooperation from outside, but they must, in the final analysis, rely on self-organization and self-help.
It was a racial movement for racial advancement. Randolph went on to envision an organization with a challenging action program.
Millions of supporters would be divided into a network of small block units.
Each would be headed by a block captain.
This would facilitate instant, mass mobilization.
At a moment's notice, a chain of command could be activated, and millions of marchers would be in the streets.
Randolph also envisioned repeated, gigantic marches aimed at Washington and state capitals.
He could also see smaller, regular marches on the city halls and other establishments in dozens of cities across the country.
To him it was desirable for blacks to picket the White House, if need be, until the nation came to see that blacks were willing to sacrifice everything to be counted as men.
It lacked the central organization and national, instant mobilization which Randolph had in mind.
It also included a substantial number of white supporters and leaders which Randolph had excluded from his program.
He had predicted that this kind of white participation would back down in times of crisis and thereby emasculate the movement.
Randolph was also one of a delegation which told President Truman that America could not afford to fight colored people in Asia with the army as it then existed.
Truman, then, took the first real steps in ending military segregation.
In 1963, Randolph and Bayard Rustin did organize a massive march on Washington.
Most of the publicity, however, went to Martin Luther King, Jr., its main speaker.
This march contributed significantly to the passage of civil rights legislation. However, most of Randolph's efforts continued to be in the realm of union organization.
In 1957, he was made a vice president in the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and a member of its executive council.
Two years later, he was censured for charging organized labor with racism. Although Randolph was not able to achieve his dream of mass mobilization, he did display considerable organizational ability.
In part, his ideas have been put into effect by subsequent groups, and his philosophy was similar to that which became popular in the 1960s.
The whole civil rights movement bore a marked resemblance to his philosophy, and undoubtedly it drew considerable motivation from it.
The idea of an all-black mass organization, with a vast network of local action groups participating in it, is still alive.
He had envisioned a grass-roots black power movement a quarter of a century before it became popular.
Although dozens of such groups have sprung up across the country, they still lack the kind of mass mobilization and national coordination which he had planned.
His was to have been a militant, all-black movement without its becoming anti-white.
The Northern states had abolished slavery early in the century, and the abolitionists self-righteously condemned Southern slaveholders while remaining unaware of their own racism.
However, the twentieth century showed that racism was really a national issue. Thousands of Afro-Americans moved from the rural South into the urban North, creating a more even distribution of that population throughout the country.
At the same time, there was a fresh wave of voluntary immigration into America by peoples with an African heritage.
Most of these newcomers also moved into Northern cities.
As thousands of blacks spread into the North and West, the inhabitants there developed sympathies with Southern racists.
Actually, this population shift only unearthed attitudes which had been there all the time.
This gigantic migration of peoples was symptomatic of the change in the heart of the black community.
It signaled a new dynamism and a new aggressiveness. The voluntary black immigration which occurred during the twentieth century was a new and unusual phenomenon.
Almost all blacks who had previously come to America had been brought in chains.
Those who came voluntarily during this century came in spite of their knowledge that racism would confront them.
In spite of the racist and ethnic overtones of this legislation, it failed to build significant barriers to movement by blacks within the western hemisphere.
During the 1920s large numbers of blacks came to the United States from other parts of the Americas.
By 1930 eighty-six percent of the foreign-born Negroes living in the United States were born in some other country in this hemisphere.
By far the largest number of these, seventy-three percent, came from the West Indies and most of them were from the British West Indies. By 1940, there were some eighty-four thousand foreign-born Negroes living in the country.
Although they were aware of the American racial situation, they were still unprepared to cope with it. Most of them were accustomed to being part of the majority in their homeland.
They had experienced discrimination before, but it had not been as uncompromising as what they found on arrival in America.
Society, as they knew it, was divided into whites, mulattoes, and blacks instead of into black and white.
Many mulattoes were not psychologically ready for the experience of being lumped in with the Blacks.
He said that the West Indians displayed a high intelligence, many having an English common-school education, and he noted that there was almost no illiteracy among them.
He also said that they were sober-minded and had a genius for business enterprise.
It has been estimated that one-third of the city's Negro professionals, physicians, dentists, and lawyers, were foreign born. The West Indians had an ethos which stressed saving, education, and hard work.
The same self-confidence and initiative which enabled substantial numbers of them to move into professional employment made others into political radicals.
Unaccustomed to the intensity of racial hostility and harassment which they found in America, they reacted with anger.
They had not been trained since birth in attitudes of submission and nonresistance.
This was the phenomenon which created Marcus Garvey and the United Negro Improvement Association.
The West Indian community had been gradually merging with the larger Afro-American society.
It never established a separate place of residence, and the second generation became mixed with the larger Afro-American community.
After the United States acquired Puerto Rico, a sizeable number of Puerto Ricans moved to the mainland.
This flow began as a trickle at the beginning of the century, and it has grown rapidly since.
Most of the Puerto Ricans settled in urban centers in the Northeast, and they established a large, Spanish-speaking community in New York City.
The migration of Cubans into America, while not as large, has been important in both Miami and New York.
The largest number of Cubans came during the 1950s and 1960s. In 1910, the Puerto Rican community in New York City numbered only five hundred, but by 1920 it had grown to seven thousand.
For this reason, it is much more difficult to identify the racial background of individual Puerto Ricans.
Certainly, there was a significant African influence on the entire population of the island.
In 1860, it was estimated that almost 50 percent of the island's residents were Negro.
In 1900, the percentage had dropped to 40 percent, and, by 1950, it had dropped to 20 percent.
The change in these statistics was due to assimilation through intermarriage.
Those who migrated to the continent did not include many with dominant negroid characteristics.
The 1960 New York City census listed only 4 percent of its Puerto Ricans as being Negro.
Nathan Glazer and Daniel P.
Moynihan, in their study of this community, believed that the Puerto Rican racial attitudes may alter the racial views of the entire city and thereby have some effect on the nation.
Puerto Ricans are not as race conscious as are most Americans. Most of them are not clearly either black or white.
Intermarriage between color groups is common.
In 1960, the Cuban community in the United States, including those born in Cuba as well as those born in America of Cuban parentage, totaled 124,416.
Only 6.5 percent of this community is nonwhite, while 25 percent of the population in Cuba is nonwhite.
Actually, this internal migration was not new.
As soon as the Northern states had begun to abolish slavery, runaways from the slave states in the South began to trickle into the North.
As the underground Railway developed, this trickle swelled into a sizeable flow. Immediately after the Civil War, the flow reversed directions for a short time.
Many who had run away during the war returned home to be with friends and family.
Thousands of others, born in the North, hurried south to help educate and rehabilitate their brothers.
However, this flow was short-lived.
As the South moved from slavery into segregation, hope slid into disillusionment and cynicism.
In 1878-79 there was a wave of migration from the south into the West.
Finally, he decided that Kansas was the ideal location in which to build a separate Negro society.
Various transportation companies saw this scheme as a way for them to make money, and they encouraged this westward migration.
Although the original migrants to Kansas were welcomed, opposition grew as their numbers increased.
Before his death in 1892, Singleton became disillusioned with the possibilities of developing a separate society anywhere in the United States, and he came to favor a return to Africa.
He believed that this was the only place where his people could escape racial discrimination.
A comittee was formed for this purpose.
It found the situation discouraging and recommended migration into other regions.
Another convention held in Nashville reached similar conclusions, and it requested funds from Congress to assist in the process.
When the boll weevil spread across the Southern states like a plague, it wiped out many poor farmers, and it drove them to seek other means of livelihood elsewhere.
On the other hand, the war had interrupted the flow of immigrants from Europe into the Northern industrial centers, and at the same time it created the need for even more unskilled labor in the factories.
By 1940, the number of those who had left the South since 1910 had soared to 1,750,000.
Between 1940 and 1950, there were another 1,597,000, and between 1950 and 1960, there were 1,457,000 more who left the South.
Much of this migration was also a move from the country to the city.
In the South, 58 percent of the Afro-Americans lived in cities.
In it, Locke heralded a spiritual awakening within the Afro-American community.
It was manifested by a creative outburst of art, music and literature as well as by a new mood of self-confidence and self-consciousness within that community.
The center of this explosion was located in Harlem.
This migration was usually explained either in economic terms--jobs pulling Negroes northward--or in social terms--discrimination pushing them out.
In both cases, the Afro-American was represented as the passive victim of external socioeconomic forces. Locke insisted that, to the contrary, it was more accurate to understand this migration as a result of a decision made by the Negro himself.
If he was less polite and more aggressive than before, he was also more self-reliant and less dependent on pity and charity.
This change, however, did not occur suddenly.
The passive, well-behaved Negro, content to stay in his place, had largely been a myth.
In part, he, had been the product of a guilt-ridden white stereotype which found this myth comforting.
The Negro himself had also contributed to this fiction by his custom of social mimicry, his habit of appearing to fill the role which whites expected of him.
By the end of slavery, however, a spirit of individuality had been growing within the Negro consciousness.
In the face of growing racism and segregation, the idealism of the new Negro was still based on the American ideal of democracy, and his goal was still to share fully, some day, in American life and institutions.
The Afro-American's heightened sense of racial consciousness was not an end in itself.
This racial self-consciousness gave him strength to withstand the daily injustices which confronted him, and it provided him with faith in himself and hope in the future.
The racial discrimination and injustice from which Afro-Americans suffered, though deeply entrenched in national institutions, were themselves a contradiction to the American democratic philosophy.
The Afro-American, besides having justice on his side, was comforted knowing that his goals were sanctioned and hallowed by the nation's ideals.
As Locke put it, "We cannot be undone without America's undoing". Thousands of Negro migrants poured north into Chicago.
The factories in Detroit attracted thousands more, and Harlem became the center of "the promised land.
James Johnson described the Harlem of the 1920s as the "culture capitol of the Negro world.
Its magnetism attracted Negroes from all across America, from the West Indies and even some from Africa itself.
Harlem contained more Negroes per square mile than any other place on earth.
It drew a bewildering and energizing diversity of peoples.
Students, peasants, artists, businessmen, professional men, poets, musicians, and workers; all came to Harlem.
It combined both the exploiters and the outcasts.
Langston Hughes, in describing his first entrance into Harlem from the 135th Street subway exit, said that he felt vitality and hope throbbing in the air.
In Black Manhattan, James Weldon Johnson said that Harlem was not a slum or a fringe.
Rather, he insisted that it was one of the "most beautiful and healthful sections of the city." According to Johnson, the stranger traveling through Harlem would be totally surprised by its appearance.
Crossing 125th Street on his way up Seventh Avenue, Johnson said, the visitor would not expect to find himself in the midst of an Afro-American community.
The character of the houses did not change.
For the next twenty-five blocks the streets, stores, and buildings looked no different from those he had already passed.
With the exception of their color, the appearance of the people on the streets was the same too.
Moreover, Johnson insisted that Harlem was an integral part of metropolitan New York and was not just a quarter within the city in the sense that was true of the communities inhabited by recent European immigrants.
Its citizens were not aliens.
They spoke American; they thought American. Harlem Negroes, claimed Johnson, were woven into the fabric of the metropolitan economy.
Unlike the Negroes in other Northern cities, they did not work in "gang labor"; rather, they had individual employment here and there scattered throughout the city.
He contended that Harlem was a laboratory for the race problem.
Many had argued that when Negroes moved north, the race problem would follow them. Johnson pointed out that 175,000 Negroes had recently moved into Harlem without any substantial racial friction and with no unusual increase in the crime rate.
The community had been, in turn, Dutch, Irish, Jewish, and Italian.
Originally Negroes, living in New York, worked for wealthy Whites and lived in the shadows of the large mansions surrounding Washington Square.
Several of the streets in Greenwich Village had been almost entirely inhabited by Negroes.
About 1890, the community shifted its focus northward into the 20's and low 30's just west of Sixth Avenue.
At the turn of the century, it moved again into the vicinity of 53rd Street.
By this time, the city's Afro-American community was developing a small middle class of its own, and it contained its own fashionable clubs and night life.
Visiting Negro entertainers from across the country usually performed at and resided in the Marshall Hotel.
The "Memphis Students", probably the first professional jazz band to tour the country, played at the Marshall. Shortly after 1900, Negroes began to move to Harlem. Harlem had been overbuilt with large apartments which the owners were unable to fill.
The Lenox Avenue subway had not yet been built, and there was inadequate transportation into the area.
As a result, most tenants preferred to live elsewhere.
Payton, a Negro real estate agent, told several of the owners, located on the east side of the district, that he could guarantee to provide them with regular tenants if they were willing to accept Negroes.
Some of the landlords on East 134th Street accepted his offer, and he filled their buildings with Negro tenants. At first, whites did not notice.
However, when Negroes spread west of Lenox Avenue, white resistance stiffened.
The local residents formed a corporation to purchase the buildings inhabited by Negroes and to evict them.
In turn, the Negroes responded by forming the Afro-American Realty Company, and they too bought out apartment buildings, evicted the white tenants, and rented the apartments to Negroes.
White residents then put pressure on lending institutions not to provide mortgages to prospective Negro buyers.
When one was able to buy a piece of property, regardless of how prosperous or orderly he might appear, local whites viewed it as an invasion, panicked, and moved out in droves.
This left the banks, still unwilling to sell to Negroes, holding a large number of deserted properties.
Eventually, they were compelled to sell these properties at deflated prices.
During and immediately after the First World War, Negroes poured into Harlem, obtained high-paying jobs, and purchased their own real estate.
Harlem, like the other Negro communities of the North, became more and more crowded.
At the same time, jobs became harder to obtain.
Poor "country cousins" streamed into "the promised land" to share in the "milk and honey," but, unfortunately, there was not enough to go around.
As the Negro population of Harlem grew, white resistance and discrimination also increased.
As Harlem grew, downtown financiers became increasingly aware that money could be made there.
In the 1930s, in contrast to Johnson's optimistic vision, Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. and others pointed out that almost all the stores on 125th Street, the major shopping district, were owned by whites and that they employed whites almost exclusively.
Harlem soon became a center for both crime and exploitation. However, in the 1920s Harlem throbbed with vitality and hope.
Artists poured into Harlem from across the country.
Night clubs rocked with music and dance.
Publishers were besieged by poets and novelists, and, surprising to the young writers, publishers were eager to see Negro authors.
Besides the new creative urge, thousands of Negroes and whites were hungry to consume the fruits of this new renaissance.
This artistic renaissance did not come out of a vacuum.
Negroes had been publishing poetry for over a century and a half, since the time of Phillis Wheatley and Jupiter Hammon.
Paul Laurence Dunbar was the first Negro poet to gain nationwide recognition, at the beginning of the twentieth century.
While, on one hand, he captured and depicted the spirit of the Negro folk, on the other hand, he did it in such a way as to perpetuate black stereotypes and white prejudices.
Actually, this aided his popularity, and he later came to regret it. Negroes had also been dancing and creating music in America for over three gundred years.
Vaudeville and minstrelsy were their first commercial products.
Ironically, the first professional entertainers to perform in minstrel shows were whites who were imitating plantation slave productions.
In the beginning, whites performed in blackface, and, only later, did Negroes themselves perform commercially.
The spirituals were a religious manifestation of the Afro-American heritage.
They appear to have been on the verge of disappearing when the "Fisk University Singers", late in the nineteenth century, took steps to preserve them.
A choral group from Fisk was touring the country in order to raise money for the school.
They received only polite appreciation.
When, on one occasion, they decided to offer one of their spirituals as an encore, the audience was enthusiastic.
The social mobility in the American scene had permitted each wave of European immigrants to move up the social ladder before it had time to develop into an American peasant class.
However, this mobility was not extended to the Afro-American.
Therefore, it was from the Afro-American peasant class that an indigenous American folk culture was to emerge.
When minstrelsy and jazz spread around the world, they were seen as American productions.
They were, at the same time, Afro-American creations. The Afro-American folk culture must be seen as the product of the African's experience in America rather than as an importation into America of foreign, African elements.
Although the content of the Afro-American folk culture grew out of the American scene, its style and flavor did have African roots.
Song and dance, for example, were involved in the African's daily experience of work, play, love, and worship.
In sculpture, painting and pottery, the African used his art to decorate the objects of his daily life rather than to make art objects for their own sake.
The African could not have imagined going to an art gallery or to a musical concert.
Art was produced by artisans rather than by artists.
This meant that slave artisans in America could continue to produce decorative work, and slave laborers in the field could continue to sing.
Art and life could still be combined, though in a restricted manner. However, while the African brought his feeling for art with him, the content of his art was actually changed as the result of his American slave experience.
The dominant African arts were sculpture, metal-working, and weaving.
In America, the Afro-American created song, dance, music, and, later, poetry.
The skills displayed in African art were technical, rigid, control disciplined.
They were characteristically sober, restrained and heavily conventionalized. In contrast, the Afro-American cultural spirit became emotional, exuberant, and sentimental.
This is to say the Afro-American characteristics which have been generally thought of as being African and primitive--his naivety, his exuberance and his spontaneity--are, in reality, his response to his American experience and not a part of his African heritage.
They are to be understood as the African's emotional reaction to his American ordeal of slavery.
It was only with the emergence of the "New Negro" and the Negro Renaissance that this folk culture entered the mainstream of the art world.
Previously, those Negroes who had gained enough education to participate in literary creation generally strove to join the American middle class, and tried to disavow all connections with their lower class background.
In doing this, they were only following the same route as that pursued by other ethnic minorities in America.
They were ashamed of slavery as well as of everything African. The folk culture, nevertheless, flourished within the music produced by the Afro-American community.
The spirituals and work songs were the product of the slave.
After Emancipation, work songs were replaced by the blues.
Work songs had been adapted to the mass labor techniques of slavery, whereas the blues, which is a solo form, was the creation of a lone individual working as a sharecropper on his own tenant farm.
It continued to express the earthy folk culture, and it, too, was woven into daily life.
It expressed the daily tribulations, weariness, fears, and loves of the Afro-American after Emancipation.
At the beginning of the twentieth century, blues along with ragtime, became popular, although not always respectable.
They could be heard most often in saloons and brothels--nevertheless, they were beginning to move out of the Afro-American subculture and into the white society.
Handy, while by no means the father of the blues, became its best-known commercial creator.
He is still remembered for the "Memphis Blues" and the "St. Louis Blues." In New Orleans, the folk tradition and formal music came together for the first time.
There, the Latin tradition had permitted the Creoles to participate in education and culture.
They had developed a rich musical tradition, and many of them had received training in French conservatories.
However, they preferred the sophisticated European music to the more earthy sounds of their blacker brothers.
With the growth of Jim Crow legislation, the Creoles lost their special position in society, and they found themselves forcibly grouped with the blacks, whom they had previously shunned.
Out of this fusion of technical musicianship and folk creativity emerged a new, vigorous music which became known as jazz. Jelly Roll Morton was one musician who had begun by studying classical guitar but preferred the music of the street.
He became a famous jazz pianist and singer.
Over the years, he played his way from night spots in New Orleans to those in St. Louis, Chicago, Los Angeles, and scores of smaller cities.
The musical quality of jazz, instead of adopting the pure tones of classical music, was boisterous and rasping.
Instruments were made to imitate the human voice, and they deliberately used a "dirty" sound.
Both the trumpet playing and singing of Louis Armstrong illustrate this jazz sound particularly well.
His well-known theme song "Take the A Train" made reference to the subway line which went to Harlem.
By the time jazz had reached Harlem the Negro Renaissance was in full swing.
This renaissance, unlike previous art produced by Negroes, consciously built on the Afro-American folk tradition. Langston Hughes, the most prolific writer of the renaissance, wrote a kind of manifesto for the movement.
He said that he was proud to be a black artist.
Further, he said that he was not writing to win the approval of white audiences.
At the same time he claimed that he and the other young Negro artists were not attempting to gain the approval of black audiences.
They were writing to express their inner souls, and they were not ashamed that those souls were black.
If what they wrote pleased either whites or blacks, Hughes said, they were happy.
The flavor of its religious life was captured best by James Weldon Johnson in his volume "God's Trombones: Negro Sermons in Verse", which he published in 1927.
Instead of resorting to the standard technique of using stereotyped dialect to capture the flavor, Johnson used powerful, poetic imagery to express its essence.
There had been Negro novelists before, and the best known of them were Charles W.
Chestnut and, to some extent, Paul Laurence Dunbar.
Chestnut's novels included "The Conjure Woman" and "The Wife of His Youth and Other Stories of the Color Line", whereas Dunbar, who wrote mainly poetry, was best known for his novel "The Sport of the Gods".
Chestnut's writing, though moving away from the plantation romanticism which had glorified slavery, developed a more realistic flavor, and it emphasized intergroup relations based on the color line rather than developing the interior lives of its characters.
Negro fiction came into its own in 1923 with Jean Toomer's publication "Cane", and, in 1924, with Jessie Redman Fauset's "There is Confusion".
These works dealt with Negroes as people and not merely as objects to be manipulated for racial propaganda.
They were more than products of an Afro-American subculture; their work became part of the mainstream of American literature.
These authors, along with other Negro artists, gained the respect of American art and literary critics.
With them, the Afro-American folk culture made its way into the formal art of the nation. The Negro Renaissance of the 1920s, however, was more than a literary movement.
There was, as had been noted earlier, a vast outpouring of musical creativity.
Besides the jazz composers and performers, many made their mark in classical concert music.
The best known composer from the Afro-American community was William Grant Still.
Many operatic and concert singers have been Negroes, and they include such well-known names as Paul Robeson, Marian Anderson, Leontyne Price, and William Warfield. The most famous of the Afro-American painters was Henry O.
Tanner, who had made his reputation before the Negro Renaissance.
Tanner's paintings had been widely acclaimed at the Paris Exposition in 1900, the Pan-American Exposition in 1901, and the St. Louis Exposition in 1904. Tanner avoided Negro subjects and concentrated on biblical themes.
In the field of sculpture, Meta Warrick Fuller was the first Negro to gain attention.
During the 1930s, however, the outpouring diminished.
The Depression affected the entire American scene, businessmen, workmen, and artists, and its impact on the Negro Renaissance was particularly severe.
One of the New Deal measures which alleviated the situation considerably was the Federal Writers Project. Sterling Brown, literary critic and Howard University professor, headed the Negro section.
Two of the better known authors who were helped by the Project were Arna Bontemps and Richard Wright. Wright's novel "Native Son" was widely acclaimed.
In it, he depicted the inner anger and hatred felt by many young Negro men as dominating characteristics of the hero's personality; eventually, his life was destroyed.
The first Negro to win a Pulitzer Prize was Gwendolyn Brooks, who won it for her poetry.
Later, Ralph Ellison was awarded a Pulitzer Prize for his novel "Invisible Man". Since the Second World War, innumerable Negroes have made significant contributions to American culture through the mass media: radio, television, and movies.
Their bitterness, undoubtedly, springs partly from the dashed hopes of the new Negro.
In 1916, Marcus Garvey came to Harlem, and before long his Universal Negro Improvement Association had opened chapters in urban centers all across the nation.
As mentioned previously, Garvey did not believe that blacks could be taken into American society.
Hundreds of thousands, who apparently agreed with him, followed his banner.
Whatever was the actual number of members of the U.N.I.A., the movement gained more grass-roots support than had any other organization in Afro-American history.
In Chicago, Grover Cleveland Redding was preaching a Back-to-Africa philosophy of his own. He organized the Abyssinian Movement and urged Negroes living on the south side of Chicago to return to Ethiopia.
On Sunday, June 20, 1920, Redding led a parade through the Chicago streets.
In the course of the melee, a white storekeeper and a white soldier were killed.
Redding and another Negro were later executed for their part in the affair. In 1925 Noble Drew Ali came to Chicago and established the Moorish American Science Temple.
Actually, he had previously attempted to organize other temples in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Michigan.
He claimed that American Negroes were of Moorish descent and, instead of being really black, were olive-hued.
His movement had a banner which carried a Moorish star and crescent on a field of red.
He also claimed that American Negroes, being Moors, had an Islamic heritage rather than a Christian one, and he endeavored to spread his particular version of that faith throughout the Afro-American community.
By 1927 Ali had established branches in Pittsburgh, Detroit, Philadelphia, Kansas City, Lansing, and elsewhere.
He wrote his own version of the Koran which combined passages from the Moslem Koran, the Christian Bible, and some of the writings of Marcus Garvey. Ali gave his followers a new sense of identity.
Most of them wore a fez which set them apart from the typical urban black.
Many were also bearded, and each one carried a membership card.
Having a different religion from that of the typical ghetto black contributed further to their special sense of identity.
Ali's teaching also made them feel that they had a special and unique heritage of which they could be proud.
His emphasis on separatism instead of on integration struck a harmonious note with their disillusionment.
Instead of leaving them in despair, it permitted them to face white America boldly. In 1929 a power struggle broke out between Noble Drew Ali and Claude Green, one of his organizers.
When Green was found murdered, the Chicago police charged Ali with the crime.
While Ali was out on bond, he too died under mysterious circumstances.
While some claimed that he had been beaten by the police, others said that he had been "mugged" by Green's followers.
Before he was released on bail Ali wrote a letter from prison to his followers encouraging them to have faith in him and in their future.
His letter bore distinctly messianic overtones.
After assuring them that he had redeemed them, he concluded by extending to them his peace and by commanding them to love one another.
His movement splintered after his death into innumerable competing factions. In Detroit, sometime before 1930, a dark-skinned man appeared selling silk and raincoats.
He said that he was W.
Fard and that he had come from the Holy City of Mecca in order to save the American Negro. People generally described him as being unusually light-skinned for a Negro with perhaps an Oriental cast.
Fard also taught that the American Negro was Islamic in origin and that he should return to his ancestral faith.
Sometime in 1933 or 1934 he disappeared as mysteriously as he had come.
He insisted that the Muslims should refrain from eating pork, should pray facing the East, and should practice a daily washing ritual.
Muslim members were reminded that their last names had been imposed upon them by the white man whom Fard equated with the Devil.
It is the practice among Muslims to drop their Christian name and, until their true names will be revealed to them, to substitute the letter X for their last name symbolizing the unknown.
Fard insisted that the first man had been a black man and that whites were a corruption of humanity.
The days of the White Devil, he said, were numbered.
Blacks should deliberately withdraw from white society in order not to be caught in its final destruction. The Muslim's life was rigidly disciplined.
There were temple services almost every evening.
Individual behavior and dress were carefully dictated.
Besides forbidding the eating of pork, devout Muslims were not allowed to drink alcohol or smoke tobacco.
Relationships between men and women were extremely puritanical.
Each temple had special groups to prepare young men and women for manhood and womanhood.
The Fruit of Islam was the young men's group, and it was a semi-military defense corps aimed at developing a sense of manhood and the ability for self-defense.
The common belief that the Fruit of Islam was preparing for racial aggression has never been substantiated.
The "Black Muslims", as well as other small, semi-religious, separatist groups, continued to exist unnoticed by the general public.
When Malcolm Little, better known as Malcolm X, was converted to the "Nation of Islam", he gave the movement the organizational skill and the eloquence which it previously lacked.
This brought it into national prominence. Black Nationalism and the Negro Renaissance shared a strong sense of racial consciousness and racial pride.
However, while the writers who expressed the spirit of the new Negro still believed in their future in America, the black nationalists enunciated a mood of alienation and despair.
The Depression, which eroded the hopes of many Americans, hit the Negro unusually hard.
Hope slid into despair and cynicism.
To quote the old adage again, "The Negro is the last to be hired and the first to be fired.
The Depression also proved that Harlem, like other Afro-American communities, was not as economically self-sufficient as Johnson had imagined.
Although such communities had many Negro-owned businesses thriving on a Negro trade, these businesses were still dependent on the economy at large.
Therefore, they were not at all free from the racial discrimination in the nation. Their clientele was largely employed in white-owned businesses.
In 1929, the Colored Merchants Association was established in New York City, and it attempted to buy goods for independent stores on a cooperative wholesale basis.
This aided them in competing with chain stores.
The Association also urged blacks to patronize stores owned by Afro-Americans. Nevertheless, the Association only survived for two years.
In October of 1933, between 25 percent and 40 percent of the blacks in many of the large cities, to which they had moved to find a brighter future, were on relief.
This percentage was three or four times higher than that of the whites in the same cities.
As affluent whites felt the economic pinch, one of the first items to be trimmed from their shrinking budgets was the maid or the gardener.
In 1935 the number of unemployed Negro domestics was at least one and a half million.
It was begun by the Urban League in St. Louis.
A boycott was organized against white-owned chain stores which catered to Negroes, but refused to employ them.
The movement spread throughout the Midwest and had some success in "persuading" white-owned stores in the heart of the ghettoes to hire Negro employees.
When the idea reached Harlem, it resulted in the establishment of the Greater New York Coordinating Comittee.
The group referred to its members as antebellum Negroes by which, Powell said, they meant before Civil War II.
Some of them, he claimed, favored repatriation to Africa; others were for black capitalism; still another group, including Powell himself, wanted the Negro to achieve full dignity within the American system.
They picketed white-owned stores on 125th Street.
They carried signs advocating, "Don't buy where you can't work," and Powell maintained that they were able almost to stop trade totally at any target they chose to picket.
He claimed to be able to call a meeting with only forty-eight hours notice and have 10,000 persons in attendance. The 125th Street stores soon negotiated and began employing Negro employees.
Next, the Comittee hit the city's utility companies.
They urged Negroes not to use electricity on specified days.
They harassed the telephone company by urging Negroes to demand that the operator place their calls instead of their dialing the number and utilizing the automatic exchanges.
Both companies changed their employment patterns in response.
When a young Negro stole a knife from a 125th Street store, it became the incident which triggered a social explosion.
Although he had escaped from the pursuing officer a rumor spread around the community that he had been beaten to death.
A mob soon gathered and began to protest everything from the discrimination practices of merchants to slum landlords and police tactics.
Window-breaking, looting, and burning soon followed.
Before peace was restored, three Negroes had been killed, some two hundred stores smashed, and it was estimated that approximately $2,000,000 worth of damage had been done.
LaGuardia appointed a study commission which was headed by the noted black sociologist E.
The commission concluded that the causes of the riot were rooted in resentment against racial discrimination and poverty.
The "promised land" of the large northern cities had not lived up to expectations. The Depression, however, brought its own kind of hope.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who had been elected in 1932, promised the country a "New Deal.
It was to be a new deal for the workers, the unemployed and, it seemed, for the Negro too.
In response, black voters switched to the Democratic party in droves.
Roosevelt was not the first president to appoint Negroes to government positions, his appointments were different in two major respects.
Vann of The Pittsburgh Courier, William H.
Hastie of the Harvard Law School, Eugene Kinckle Jones of the Urban League, Mrs. Mary McLeod Bethune of the National Council of Negro Women, Robert C.
Weaver, and Ralph Bunche, who later became the first Negro to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.
The number of Afro-Americans hired by the Federal Government mushroomed rapidly. Between 1933 and 1946 the number rose from 50,000 to almost 200,000. Most, however, were employed in the lower, unskilled and semi-skilled, brackets.
It was also during this period that the civil service terminated its policy of requiring applicants to state their race and to include photographs.
Officials at varying levels were still influenced by their personal prejudices, and they continued to use their positions in a discriminatory manner.
Actually, with the heightened competition for jobs, unions tended to intensify their discrimination.
The American Federation of Labor largely consisted of trade or skilled workers.
Its member unions regularly practiced racial exclusion and kept blacks out of the trades.
To the contrary, the United Mine Workers Union which had been organized on an industry-wide basis rather than a craft basis had encouraged the participation of Negroes within the union since at least 1890.
In 1935, several union leaders, led by John L.
Lewis of the United Mine Workers, decided that the union movement must break away from its craft orientation and begin to organize the new mass production industries on an industry-wide basis. While the A.
F. of L. dragged its feet, the dissidents withdrew and formed the Congress of Industrial Organizations.
Immediately they began to organize the steel workers, the meat packers and the automobile workers.
These were all industries which employed significant numbers of Afro-Americans, and the CIO followed an aggressive, nondiscriminatory policy.
In the beginning, black workers were suspicious, but they soon joined the new unions in large numbers.
In the long run, both black and white labor benefited from the Wagner Act. Finally, the New Deal failed to extend its program to include either agricultural or domestic workers.
These were areas in which Afro-Americans were employed in unusually high proportions, and this meant that a large portion of the Afro-American community was not covered by this legislation.
For example, both the Social Security and the Minimum Wage laws excluded both agricultural and domestic workers. Nevertheless, it was estimated that in 1939 some one million Negroes owed their livelihood to the Works Progress Administration.
If it had not been for the W.P.A., the National Youth Administration, the Civilian Conservation Corps, and other similar organizations, Afro-Americans would have suffered even more during the Depression. Some relief was brought to farmers through the Agricultural Adjustment Administration.
However, white landlords usually kept the checks which had been intended for the sharecroppers.
This alliance of poor whites and poor blacks was reminiscent of the earlier Populist Movement. Although the New Deal did much to help the Negro, it tended to further undercut his self-confidence and independence.
Alain Locke has argued that the significant fact about the northward migration by blacks had been that the Afro-Americans had made a decision for themselves.
The fact of having made a decision and of taking action on it, Locke maintains, was the event which created the aggressive self-confident New Negro.
In helping him to survive the Depression, the New Deal turned him again into a passive recipient.
The large number of Afro-Americans who were receiving government aid in one way or another were aware of their dependency.
Those who took notice of the ascendancy of Mussolini and Hitler were apt to be impressed with their successes in combatting the effects of the Depression in Italy and Germany.
The Afro-American community, however, was more concerned with the imperialistic and racist elements in the teachings of Fascism and National Socialism.
The political unification of Germany, instead of being the glorious culmination of this nationalistic drama, only signaled the end of one act and the beginning of another.
Even the German defeat in the First World War did not persuade ardent nationalists to be content with the victories they had already achieved.
Instead, they probed the heart of the nation to find an explanation for their defeat.
These nationalists contended that the defeat had been due to pollution of racial purity by the presence of a large, alien element--the Jews.
If it had not been for this impurity, it was argued, Germany would certainly have been victorious, and it would have demonstrated its global superiority.
Aggressive nationalism became virulent racism. Adolf Hitler exploited this need for a political scapegoat and turned it into a national, anti-Semitic campaign.
The racial stereotypes and accompanying feelings were already widespread.
Nineteenth century popular German literature was full of such trite symbols.
The Jew was always portrayed as a villainous merchant, shifty-eyed, large-nosed, unscrupulous, and wealthy.
In contrast, the German was invariably portrayed as a solid, blond-haired peasant, hard-working, loyal, and exploited. The drama in such literature sprang from the tension between the wealthy Jewish merchants and the hard-working but poor German peasants.
Here could be found the same kind of exploitation which Hitler used to explain the German defeat in the war.
These popular stereotypes were then joined to the teachings of Houston Stewart Chamberlain which had built on elements from biology, anthropology, sociology, and phrenology.
In his book Foundations of the Nineteenth Century, Chamberlain had developed them into a philosophy of world history which centered on the concepts of racial conflict.
Human progress and racial purity were equated.
He predicted an eventual struggle to the death between the Jewish and the Teutonic races.
The Germans, he believed, would emerge victorious. Through the survival of the fittest and the destruction of the weak, mankind would reach a higher stage of evolution.
Although Nazi racist thought was concerned almost exclusively with the conflict between the Germans and the Jews, it was clear that the Negro race was, if anything, consigned to an even lower level of importance than the Jews.
In the survival of the fittest, Negroes were also destined for extermination in the name of human progress. Afro-American suspicions about the nature of Mussolini's imperialism proved to be justified when Italy invaded Ethiopia.
Mussolini's dream of reviving Roman glory included rebuilding a powerful empire.
However, underdeveloped countries which were not already dominated by European nations and which could easily be colonized, were few in number.
When Italy invaded Ethiopia, Afro-Americans saw it as another white nation subjugating another black nation.
At the very time when Africans and Afro-Americans were looking forward to the liberation of Africa from European domination, Italy was extending imperialism even further and conquering the last remaining independent supposedly black nation in Africa.
They looked to the League of Nations hoping that it would take decisive action against the Italian aggression.
Their hopes were in vain. The war that began in 1939 came to be expressed in terms which were even more ideological than had been true of the First World War.
The Allies depicted themselves as being the champions of freedom and humanity while they portrayed their enemies as tyrants and barbarians.
Afro-Americans were painfully aware of some of the imperfections in this simple dichotomy.
Afro-Americans viewed the war both with more enthusiasm and with more pessimism than they had felt at the outbreak of the First World War.
On the one hand, they could eagerly support a war to defeat Hitler's racist doctrines.
On the other hand, they did not believe that any display of patriotism on their part would significantly diminish racism at home.
During the First World War they had thought that a demonstration of patriotism would help to knock down the walls of antagonism.
Although the American nation stood on the sidelines for the first two years, America became a major source of money, supplies, and encouragement for Britain and France.
Providing materiel for the Allies gave new life to the sagging American economy. There were still some five million unemployed in the nation, and something more seemed to be needed.
Unfortunately for the Afro-American, most of the new jobs were not open to them.
As better jobs became available, they were quickly filled by white workers eager to improve their economic status.
This left some of the more undesirable jobs to go begging, and, as the result, the war boom benefits began to trickle down to the Afro-American community. Afro-Americans, however, were not content with the crumbs from the industrial table.
Complaints began to flood into Washington.
Several government officials made pronouncements condemning discrimination in defense industries, but they were not heard.
It became clear that nothing would change without strong government action, and it was also evident that this would not occur unless the entire Afro-American community could exert united, political pressure. Early in 1941, A.
Most of them felt that there was too much apathy in the Afro-American community for such a grandiose scheme to be taken seriously.
Nevertheless, interest on the grass-roots level gradually grew and Randolph's idea was transformed into a project involving scores of organizers all across the country, all of whom were working diligently to enlist potential marchers.
In the meantime, Randolph began to formulate the complex plans for organizing the actual march.
By late spring, skepticism had turned to worry.
Many government leaders and finally President Roosevelt himself tried to talk Randolph into canceling the march.
They suggested that such an aggressive protest would do more to hurt the Afro-American than help him. Randolph remained unyielding.
Others tried to suggest that the protest would be bad for the American image and therefore was unpatriotic.
When they suggested that it would create a bad impression in Rome and Berlin, Afro-Americans retorted that white racism had already created such an image.
Finally, Roosevelt contacted Randolph and offered to issue an executive order barring discrimination in defense industries and promised to put "teeth" in the order, provided Randolph call off the march.
When Randolph became convinced that Roosevelt's intentions were sincere, he complied. Roosevelt fulfilled his promise by issuing Executive Order 8802, which condemned discrimination on the grounds of race, color, or creed.
Then, he established the Fair Employment Practices Commission and assigned to it the responsibility for enforcing the order.
Many Afro-Americans felt that Executive Order 8802 was the most important government document concerning the Negro to be issued since the Emancipation Proclamation. Their immediate joy was somewhat dampened when they found that discrimination still continued in some quarters.
However, it soon became clear that America intended to fight racism with a segregated army.
The fact that Negroes were confined to the more menial positions in the armed forces was what irritated Afro-Americans the most.
The Negro army units were obviously going to be led by white officers.
The Marine Corps was still not accepting any Negroes in its ranks at all.
Complaints again began to pour into Washington. Afro-Americans generally admitted that the Selective Service Act per se was not discriminatory and that it was applied impartially in most places.
One of the reasons for this impartiality, undoubtedly, was the fact that both local and national Selective Service Boards included Afro-American representation.
In the course of the war, about one million Afro-Americans saw service on behalf of their country.
Their ratio within the armed forces was almost the same as that within the nation.
This had been the stated goal of the Department of War. Gradually, the armed forces modified their discriminatory policies in response to the flood of complaints.
The Air Force began to train Negro pilots although they still received segregated training and served in segregated squadrons.
The Marine Corps accepted Negro recruits for the first time in its history.
They, too, served in segregated units.
The Navy, which had restricted Negroes to menial positions, gradually began to accept them in almost all noncommissioned positions.
Eventually, it even began to commission some Negro officers.
The Army, too, introduced an extensive program to prepare Negro officers.
It trained most of them in integrated facilities, but they continued to lead segregated units. As the war grew to a close, the Army announced that it intended to experiment with integration.
However, when the experiment took place, the integration proved not to be quite what had been expected.
Negro units, as well as individual Negro soldiers, made outstanding contributions to the war effort both in Europe and in the Pacific, and they received numerous commendations and citations.
In particular, they were irritated by the fact that German prisoners of war were permitted to eat with white American soldiers in the same dining car on a railroad train traveling through the South, while Negro soldiers could not.
Racial riots occurred at Fort Bragg, Camp Robinson, Camp Davis, Camp Lee, Fort Dix, and a notorious one at an American base in Australia.
The policy of the War Department was to gloss over these events.
Casualties which resulted from riots at bases in the United States were officially listed as accidental deaths.
Those which resulted from riots overseas were officially reported as being killed in action. On several occasions, Negro soldiers refused to do work which they believed had been assigned to them purely because of their race.
For this they were charged with mutiny. There was also one serious civilian race riot during the war; it occurred on June 20, 1943, in Detroit.
Before the Detroit riot ended, twenty-five Negroes and nine whites had been killed.
President Roosevelt had to send in federal troops to quell the disturbance.
Another factor which irritated Afro-Americans was that the Red Cross blood banks separated Negro and white blood.
Besides the hundreds of thousands who were involved directly in the military, millions more supported the war effort in countless other ways.
Besides growing their own vegetables, saving tin cans and newspapers, they were avid contributors to the War Bond issues.
Others volunteered to serve as block wardens in case of enemy air raids.
Negro newspapers had their own journalists at the front, and the Afro-American community eagerly kept up with the war news.
They took special pride in stories of heroism about Negro soldiers.
At the same time, they were possessed by a new drive to make American democracy into a reality.
The ideological character of the war had reminded them of America's expressed ideals of brotherhood and equality.
Their participation in the war convinced them that they were worthy of full citizenship.
Many had broken the bonds of tradition which had held them in fear and apathy.
Some had left their communities to fight in the Army, and some had moved into large urban centers to work in defense industries.
While hope ran high in most quarters, some of these same peoples were suspicious about its lofty ideological character.
Humanitarian ideologies had made their appearance before, but there had always been a gap between theory and practice. Colored peoples and other minorities around the world observed the San Francisco Conference with hope mixed with caution.
Its very initials signified that the peoples of the world were to be one people bound together in brotherhood, freedom, and equality.
This should have meant the end of imperialistic exploitation as well as the end of minority persecution.
The Afro-American community wondered if the U.N. would apply these principles to them.
Many skeptics suggested that the U.
Their number included Mrs. Mary McLeod Bethune, Dr. Mordecai W.
Johnson of Howard University, W.
DuBois and Walter White, both of the N.A.A.C.P.
Ralph Bunche was an official member of the American staff.
There were also a large number of Negro journalists, and the conference was widely covered in the Negro press.
Once the U.N. was organized and in operation, several other Afro-Americans worked for it in a number of ways.
While some held diplomatic posts, others used their specific scientific and scholarly skills to help various branches of the U.N.
The Charter proclaimed human rights and freedom for all without respect to "race, sex, language or religion.
Minority groups were particularly interested in the work of UNESCO which, among other things, studied the nature of prejudice and racism and tried to develop programs to eradicate these evils.
Minority groups throughout the world eagerly waited to see what, if anything, the U.N. would do.
When a resolution was passed by a two-thirds majority, charging South Africa with the violation of human rights, and requiring it to report back on what steps had been taken to alter the situation, religious and national minorities were overjoyed.
However, the enthusiasm of Afro-Americans was dampened by the fact that both the United States and Britain had voted against the resolution.
Government took towards human rights sheds considerable light on the internal conflict concerning race within America itself.
S. led the fight at the U.N. for the approval of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Yet the American government has been reluctant to support the inclusion of specific economic and social rights in a draft treaty.
The U.N. had endeavored to write a draft treaty which its member nations would sign and which would be binding on them.
Senate had ratified such a document, its terms presumably would then be binding on the entire nation.
At that time, senators from the Southern states were still staunchly defending legal segregation and disfranchisement of Afro-Americans.
The government found itself supporting human rights ideologically while backing down on them in practice. As the Cold War deepened, the U.
S. became increasingly sensitive about its world image.
While fighting for world leadership, Russia and America each claimed that its way of life was based on the principles of brotherhood and humanitarianism.
Each, in turn, tried to prove to the rest of the world that its ideology was genuinely humane and democratic, while its opponent's ideology was, in reality, oppressive and dehumanizing.
The communist bloc attacked the West for being purveyors of imperialism and racism.
The Federal Government had always followed a policy of "hands off," at least since the days of Hayes and the end of Reconstruction.
Party politicians always opposed taking a strong federal stand against an established state policy within the South for fear of what would happen to that party within the South.
World leadership brought with it the need to be concerned with world opinion.
Racism was no longer a local or state question.
DuBois had predicted, it had become the leading question of the twentieth century.
At the end of the Second World War, Walter White, then executive director of the N.A.A.C.P., toured Europe and drew conclusions concerning the effect of the war and the course of the future.
What they called attention to was that the British dominated colored peoples in Africa and Asia and that the Americans persecuted their racial minority at home. White believed that this propaganda was taking root in the hearts of many Asiatics.
He also believed that most of Asia would slide into the Russian camp, thereby preparing the way for a third world conflict.
He contended that Britain and America had a choice between ending their policies of racial superiority and preparing for the next war. In 1948 A.
Philip Randolph began to advocate civil disobedience on the part of Afro-Americans, rather than ever again allowing themselves to be part of a segregated army.
He recommended that they refuse to serve in future wars, and the idea received widespread attention.
In a Senate comittee inquiry, Senator Wayne Morse from Oregon suggested to him that such civil disobedience in wartime could well be viewed as treason and not merely as civil disobedience.
Clearly, Randolph's suggestion had hit a sensitive nerve.
A nation which had been skeptical about permitting Afro-Americans in its armed forces was now becoming extremely uneasy at the thought that Afro-Americans might not want to serve.
In the same year President Truman appointed a commission to study race relations in the military.
Its report, Freedom to Serve, recommended that the Armed Forces open up all jobs regardless of race, color, or creed.
As a result, the military began to move slowly in the direction of integration. However, when the communists invaded South Korea, the issue quickly came to a head.
He did this partly as a matter of philosophy and partly from necessity.
The Army needed the fullest and most efficient use of the few troops available in order to stem the flow of a much larger communist force into South Korea.
This integration proceeded very well, and when he was put in charge of all forces in the Far East, he asked the Defense Department for permission to integrate all of the forces in the area.
Within three months, the extent of integration in the Armed Forces jumped from nine percent to thirty percent.
How much of this action sprang from internal motivation and how much resulted from the pressure of world opinion is a matter of conjecture.
In any case, the Truman Administration deliberately created an atmosphere favorable to changing race relations within America.
In 1948 they formed the Dixiecrat Party and refused to support many of the policies and candidates of the Democratic Party.
Truman also appointed a comittee to study higher education in America, and its report recommended an end to discrimination in colleges and universities.
In 1948 Truman issued an executive order aimed at achieving fair employment within government service.
He also continued the practice of attacking discrimination within industries working under government contracts.
In 1948 the Supreme Court declared that restrictive covenants in housing were unconstitutional.
Sensitivity to world opinion had made all branches of the Federal Government more willing to act on racial matters.
The N.A.A.C.P. came to be the cutting edge of the campaign.
In particular, the Legal Defense Fund of the N.A.A.C.P. and the small group of intelligent, dedicated Negro lawyers whom it financed, spearheaded the attack.
It was clear that the legal system itself supported the position of Southern racists.
Most Afro-Americans in the South could not vote, and Southern senators were in a position to sabotage any attempt to change the system through the legislative process.
They were chosen through a white electorate, and Afro-Americans in the South could do little about that.
Even if a favorable majority in Congress stemming from the North and West could be established, the one-party system in the South meant that Southern Senators were continually reelected and, therefore, had Congressional seniority.
If the courts could be persuaded to understand the Constitution differently, legal segregation might well be found to be unconstitutional.
When Walter White defeated W.
DuBois in a struggle for leadership, he confirmed the Association's emphasis on striving for an integrated society.
The number of white and middle-class black supporters of the N.A.A.C.P. grew, and its treasury prospered.
He decided that the attack should be a slow, indirect one. Most Southern school systems, although they had developed two separate institutions, had not established separate graduate and professional facilities for Negroes.
Marshall decided to attack the school question on the graduate, professional, and law-school level.
Missouri wanted to solve the problem by paying the student's tuition in an integrated Northern law school, but the Court refused to accept that as a solution.
It argued that the state had already created a privilege for whites which it was denying to Negroes. This, in itself, was a Constitutional violation. A decade passed without any further action.
In 1948, the Supreme Court attacked Oklahoma for its failure to permit a Negro to enroll in its state law school.
The Oklahoma Board of Regents, then, decided to admit Negroes to any course of study not provided for by the state college for Negroes.
This was a considerable step forward. In 1950, in Sweatt v.
Painter, the Supreme Court condemned an attempt by the state of Texas to establish a special law school overnight in which it could enroll a Negro applicant.
The Court said that this fly-by-night institution was not equal, and it insisted that an equal institution must include equal faculty, equal library, and equal prestige.
It argued that part of an equal degree was the prestige conferred on the graduate by the status of that institution.
To be equal, the Court reasoned, the separate school must carry an equal degree of professional status.
It also decided, in McLaurin v.
In themselves, they did not constitute an attack on segregated education.
They merely represented an attempt by the courts to guarantee that separate education was, in fact, equal education.
Southern states, recognizing the trend of events, began crash programs to build and upgrade their Negro school systems.
The N.A.A.C.P. charged that these schools, besides being inferior, were a violation of the "equal-protection" clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
All of the suits, as had been expected, were defeated in the local courts.
However, they were appealed. Though the Supreme Court had allowed the decision made in Plessy v. Ferguson in 1896 to stand, the Court was moving closer to a reexamination of the "separate but equal" clause.
That decision had argued that separate facilities, if they were equal, did not violate a citizen's right to equal protection under the law.
It had become the cornerstone on which a whole dual society had been built.
The Court had made no attempt, however, to guarantee that these separate institutions would be equal, and clearly they were not.
At mid-century, the Court began by challenging this dual system at points of blatant and obvious inequity.
By 1950 in Sweatt v.
Painter, the Court was attacking subtle inequalities such as that of institutional prestige.
The next step was for the Court to ask whether in fact separate institutions could ever be equal.
In other words, the question was whether segregation, in itself, constituted inequality and was an infringement on a citizen's rights. On May 17, 1954, in Brown v.
Board of Education of the City of Topeka, the Supreme Court declared that school segregation was unconstitutional and that the "separate but equal" doctrine, which the Court itself had maintained for half a century, was also unconstitutional.
Although the decision referred directly only to school segregation, in striking down the "separate but equal" doctrine, the Supreme Court implied that all legal segregation was unconstitutional.
Further, the Court insisted that the damaging impact of segregation was greater when it had the sanction of law.
It pointed out that segregation was usually interpreted as denoting the inferiority of the colored child.
This resulted in a crippling psychological effect on his ability to learn by undermining his self-confidence and motivation.
They said that the Court, instead of interpreting the law, was trying to legislate. Southern states resurrected the old doctrine of interposition which they had used against the Federal Government preceding the Civil War.
Several state legislatures passed resolutions stating that the Federal Government did not have the power to prohibit segregation.
Other Southerners resorted to a whole battery of tactics.
The Ku Klux Klan was revived along with a host of new groups such as the National Association for the Advancement of White People.
The White Citizens' councils spearheaded the resistance movement.
Various forms of violence and intimidation became common.
Bombings, beatings, and murders increased sharply all across the South.
Outspoken proponents of desegregation were harassed in other ways as well.
They lost their jobs, their banks called in their mortgages, and creditors of all kinds came to collect their debts. In 1955 the Supreme Court declared that its desegregation decision should be carried out "with all deliberate speed.
Southern school districts, however, became experts in tactics of avoiding or delaying compliance.
It began to appear that each school board would have to be compelled to admit each individual Negro student.
Even then, some officials said that they would never comply.
They persisted in arguing that the Court had overstepped its constitutional functions.
When federal marshals were sent to carry out the order, Little Rock citizens were in no mood to stand idly by and watch.
Both the citizens and the local officials were united in opposing federal authority.
Everyone watched to see what President Eisenhower would do in the face of this challenge.
On the one hand, Eisenhower and the Republicans had condemned the increasing centralization of power in the federal government.
On the other hand, Eisenhower had been a general who had been accustomed to having his subordinates carry out his orders.
Eisenhower, the general, moved with decisiveness and sent troops into Little Rock to enforce the law.
Although Eisenhower himself had said that men's hearts could not be changed by legislation, he diligently fulfilled his functions as the head of the Executive Branch of the government.
Surprisingly enough, it was also under his administration that Congress passed the first Civil Rights Act since 1875.
Although the bill was rather weak, it was an admission that the Federal government had an obligation to guarantee civil rights to individual citizens and to act on their behalf when state and local governments did not.
Ghana had gained its status as an independent nation.
Communist leaders, at the same time, took great pleasure in pointing out to these Africans the mistreatments of Afro-Americans within the United States.
Afro-Americans exploited the situation in order to involve the Federal Government in their desegregation campaign. The Civil Rights Movement On December 1, 1955, an obscure black woman, Mrs. Rosa Parks, was riding home on a bus in Montgomery, Alabama.
As the bus gradually filled up with passengers, a white man demanded that she give him her seat and that she stand near the rear of the bus.
Mrs. Parks, who did not have the reputation of being a troublemaker or a revolutionary, said that she was tired and that her feet were tired.
The white man protested to the bus driver.
When the driver also demanded that she move, she refused.
Then, the driver summoned a policeman, and Mrs. Parks was arrested. None of this was unusual.
Daily, all across the South, black women surrendered their seats to demanding whites.
If she had been a troublemaker, the community might have thought that she had only received what she deserved.
On the contrary, its citizens viewed her as an innocent, hardworking woman who had been mistreated.
Her humiliation became their own. Spontaneous protest meetings occurred all across Montgomery, and the idea of retaliating against the entire system by conducting a bus boycott took hold.
Almost immediately, the call for a black boycott of Montgomery buses spread throughout the community, and car pools were quickly organized to help people in getting to and from their employment.
Whites refused to believe that the black community could either organize or sustain such a campaign.
King and several others were found guilty, but they appealed their case.
As the boycott dragged on month after month, Montgomery gained national prominence through the mass media, and King quickly gained a national reputation.
When the bus company was finally compelled to capitulate and to drop its policy of segregated seating, King had become a national hero.
Like Gandhi, King wanted to make clear that nonviolence was not the same as nonresistance.
Both maintained that if it should come to a choice between submission and violence, violence was to be preferred.
Both stressed that nonviolent resistance was not to be an excuse for cowardice.
To the contrary, nonviolent resistance was the way of the strong.
It gives them new self-respect.
Throughout history, man had met violence with violence and hate with hate.
He believed that only nonviolence and love could break this eternal cycle of revenge and retaliation.
It was his hope that the Negro, through utilizing the philosophy of nonviolent resistance, could help to bring about the birth of a new day.
From this point of view, helping to free a racist from the shackles of his own prejudice was construed to be in his best interest and, therefore, a loving act.
This philosophy would become the means of reconciliation and, to put it in religious terms, would be redemptive. King made it clear that nonviolent resistance was concerned with morality and justice and not merely with obtaining specific goals.
When laws, themselves, were unjust, nonviolent resistance could engage in civil disobedience as a means of challenging those laws.
Civil disobedience was not to be understood merely as law-breaking.
Instead, King said that it was based in a belief in law and also in a belief in the necessity to obey the law.
However, when a particular law was grossly unjust, that unjust law itself endangered society's respect for law in general.
If the unjust law could not be changed through normal legal channels, deliberate breaking of that specific law might be justified.
Because the person engaging in civil disobedience did believe in the value of law, he would break the unjust law openly, and he would willingly accept the consequences for breaking it.
King was concerned that those using the technique should fully understand its meaning and value.
Otherwise, he feared that it might be used carelessly and thereby distort its moral and redemptive quality.
Then, they sat down at its lunch counter, which served whites only.
When they were refused service, they took out their textbooks and began to do their homework.
This protest immediately made local news.
The next day, they were joined by a large number of fellow students. In a matter of weeks, student sit-ins were occurring at segregated lunch counters all across the South.
College and high school students by the thousands joined the Civil Rights Movement.
These students felt the need to form their own organization to mobilize and facilitate the spontaneous demonstrations which were springing up everywhere.
This resulted in the formation of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Comittee.
It did get involved on a massive scale in giving legal aid to the thousands of demonstrators who were arrested for various legal infractions such as marching without a parade permit, disturbing the peace, and for trespassing.
In several Northern states, Afro-Americans held the balance of power in close elections.
Also, by that year, over a million Afro-Americans had become eligible to vote in the Southern states.
Kennedy, the Democratic candidate, easily out-maneuvered his Republican opponent, Richard M.
Nixon, in the search for Afro-American votes.
Kennedy had projected an image of aggressive idealism which captured the imagination of white liberals and of Afro-Americans. The move which guaranteed the support of most Afro-Americans for Kennedy came in October, a mere three weeks before the election.
Martin Luther King, Jr., and several other Negroes had been arrested in Atlanta, Georgia, for staging a sit-in at a department store restaurant.
While the others were released, King was sentenced to four months at hard labor. Kennedy immediately telephoned his sympathy to Mrs. King.
Meanwhile, his brother and campaign manager, Robert Kennedy, telephoned the judge who had sentenced him and pleaded for his release.
The next day, King was freed.
The news was carefully and systematically spread throughout the entire Afro-American community.
As the campaign reached a climax, Attorney General Robert Kennedy became annoyed with its intensity.
Apparently, he had hoped that the direct actionists would wait for the new Administration to take the lead in Civil Rights. Instead, they chose to try to make the new Administration live up to the image which it had projected.
Kennedy requested a cooling-off period, but the freedom riders would not listen.
It was the centennial of the Emancipation Proclamation, and the Movement adopted the motto, "free in '63.
In the spring, the S.C.L.C. spearheaded a massive campaign in Birmingham for desegregation and fair employment. Marches occurred almost daily.
The marchers maintained their nonviolent tactics in the face of many arrests and much intimidation.
In June, the head of Mississippi's N.A.A.C.P., Medgar Evers, was shot in the back outside his home and killed.
Scores of sympathy demonstrations again reverberated throughout the country.
Opponents of the Bill were particularly perturbed by the section which sought to guarantee the end of discrimination in all kinds of public accommodations--stores, restaurants, hotels, motels, etc. They claimed that this was an invasion of the owners' property rights.
It soon became clear that the Bill would be entangled in a gigantic Congressional debate for months.
Civil Rights supporters looked for new techniques which would bring added pressure on Congress.
Again, the idea of a March on Washington was proposed, and this time it was carried through.
The demonstration on August 28, 1963, was larger than any previous one in the history of the capital.
At least a quarter of a million blacks and whites, from all over America, representing a wide spectrum of religious, labor, and civil rights organizations, flooded into Washington. The occasion was peaceful and orderly.
The marchers exuded an aura of interracial love and brotherhood.
The emotional impact on the participants was almost that of a religious pilgrimage.
President Kennedy, instead of trying to block the march as demanded by many Congressional leaders, aided it by providing security forces, and he also met Personally with a delegation of its leaders.
The high point of the demonstration was Martin Luther King's famous speech: "Now is the time to make real the promise of democracy.
Now is the time to rise from the dark and desolate valley of segregation to the sunlit path of racial justice.
Now is the time to lift our nation from the quicksands of racial injustice to the solid rock of brotherhood.
Now is the time to make justice a reality for all of God's children. "Now, I say to you today, my friends, so even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream.
It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream.
I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character. "This is our hope.
But on the 22nd of November, John F.
Kennedy was gunned down in the Presidential limousine in Dallas, Texas.
The nation and the world were struck dumb with disbelief.
Even those who had disliked his politics were horrified at the assassination of a President in a democratic state.
His supporters felt that they had lost a friend as well as a leader.
In fact many regarded Kennedy as a savior. The sense of shock caused despair and gloom.
The fact that his successor, Lyndon B.
Johnson, was a Southerner led most civil rights supporters to feel that there would be a reversal of federal policies on the racial question.
However, Johnson immediately tried to reassure the nation that his intention was to carry on with the unfinished business of the Kennedy era.
By the time the Bill passed in the spring of 1964, civil rights supporters felt that Johnson was as dependable an ally as Kennedy had been.
In fact, violence on both sides escalated.
C., Negro educator, Lemuel Penn, was gunned down by snipers as he drove through Georgia on his way home from a training session for reserve officers.
Two Klansmen were charged, but they were acquitted.
In Philadelphia, Mississippi, three civil rights workers--two white and one black--disappeared.
The youths were later found brutally murdered.
In spite of national protests, local justice was not forthcoming. At the same time, forewarnings of anger and violence had begun to rumble in many Afro-American communities across the land.
In spite of the legislative victories, most ghetto Negroes found that their daily lives had not changed.
In fact, the economic gap between blacks and whites had tended to increase as whites received the benefits of prosperity in larger portions than did the blacks.
Also, many ghetto residents, whose lives were surrounded with crime and violence, were further angered when they watched the evening news showing their Southern brothers kicked and clubbed by sheriffs.
These ghetto residents had not been schooled in the tactics of nonviolent resistance.
In the summer of 1964, race riots occurred in Harlem and Rochester, N.Y., as well as in several cities in New Jersey. In the spring of 1965, Selma, Alabama, was the scene of a concentrated voter registration drive.
The campaign was once again spearheaded by Martin Luther King and the S.C.L.C.
During the demonstrations, a Black civil rights worker and a Northern Unitarian clergyman were both killed. Finally, a gigantic march was planned between Selma and the state capitol at Montgomery.
State officials sought to prohibit the march.
S. District Judge at Montgomery, however, ordered officials to permit the march and to provide protection for the marchers.
President Johnson federalized the Alabama National Guard and used it to guarantee the maintenance of law and order.
When the procession reached the state capitol building, the demonstrators were addressed by two Afro-American Nobel Peace Prize winners.
Ralph Bunche, who had received the award for mediating the Middle Eastern crisis, lamented the fact that he had to address an audience while standing under a Confederate flag.
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who had just received the award himself for his work in nonviolent resistance, told the marchers to take heart because they were on the road to victory: "We are on the move now.
The burning of our churches will not deter us. We are on the move now.
The bombing of our homes will not dissuade us. We are on the move now.
The beating and killing of our clergymen and young people will not divert us.
We are on the move now.
The arrest and release of known murderers will not discourage us, We are on the move now. "Like an idea whose time has come, not even the marching of mighty armies can halt us.
We are moving to the land of freedom. "Let us therefore continue our triumph and march to the realization of the American dream.
Let us march on ballot boxes until all over Alabama God's children will be able to walk the earth in decency and honor. "For all of us today the battle is in our hands.
The road ahead is not altogether a smooth one.
There are no broad highways to lead us easily and inevitably to quick solutions.
He implied that, while he did not always approve of the methods used, the demonstrators had done a positive service for justice and for the country.
Each right, so it seemed, had to be fought for and won over and over again in almost each locality.
Although discrimination continued and even seemed to intensify at times, it no longer carried with it the force of law.
When the smoke finally subsided several days later, more than thirty people were dead, hundreds had been injured, and almost four thousand had been arrested.
Property damage ran into the millions. The nation was shocked.
The mass communications media tended to exaggerate the amount of damage done and also conjured up visions, in the mind of white America, of organized black gangs deliberately and systematically attacking white people.
Many felt that it had been the worst racial outbreak in American history.
In fact, it was not.
The 1943 riot in Detroit and the 1919 riot in Chicago had both been more violent. The 1917 race riots in East St. Louis, Illinois, had outdone the Watts outburst in terms of the amount of personal injury.
The violence in most previous riots had been inflicted by whites against blacks, and perhaps this was why white America did not remember them very clearly.
The violence in Watts, though not directed against white persons as many believed, was still accomplished by blacks and aimed against white-owned property.
White Americans were confused because they felt they had given "them" so much.
It began with a rather routine arrest for drunken driving.
Marquette Frye, a young black, was stopped by a white motorcycle officer and asked to take a standard sobriety test.
As the police cars departed, youths began to pelt the vehicles with rocks and bottles.
They continued to harass other traffic passing through the area.
For a time, the police stayed outside the area, hoping that it would cool down.
Then, believing that it was time to restore order, a line of police charged down the street clearing the mob.
The police clubbed and beat anyone who did not get out of the way.
The police, of course, were the most obvious and visible manifestation of this power, and in a riot they were one of the most convenient targets for the rioters.
Newsmen and firemen also became victims of rock and bottle throwing.
White-owned stores throughout the ghettoes formed another target for this anger.
Before long, rioters were breaking into stores and carrying off everything from beer to television sets and clothing.
Breaking and looting was shortly followed by burning. The center of the action was soon nicknamed "Charcoal Alley." After a couple of days when the riot continued to grow, Los Angeles officials began to consider calling in the National Guard.
Police Chief Parker did not know that it was necessary for him to contact the Governor's office and ask the Governor to call out the Guard. Unfortunately, Governor Brown was in Greece.
The looting and burning were no longer confined to roving gangs of youths.
Angry adults, who had previously only urged them on, had become intoxicated by the mood of destruction.
People of all ages, many of whom had had no previous police record, began to join.
The pressure chamber had blown its valve and was now letting off steam.
Watts abandoned itself to an emotional orgy. The National Guard had not been adequately trained to handle civil disorders.
It also came with a point of view which was unsuited to a civilian outburst.
They had been trained to work against an enemy, and had a tendency to interpret every action in this way and to view all the residents of Watts as enemies.
When two drunks in a car refused to stop at a Guard roadblock and ran into a line of soldiers, the Guard interpreted it as a deliberate and malicious suicide attack.
The Guard was convinced that they were being personally threatened, and the officers issued live ammunition to all the men. By the end of the riot, the Guard had fired thousands of rounds of ammunition.
They thought of their concessions to blacks as gifts from a generous heart. Blacks, to the contrary, viewed these concessions as the tardy surrender of rights which should have been theirs all along.
Moreover, the effects of the civil rights victories had been largely limited to the Deep South and almost entirely to changes in legal status.
The day-to-day realities of education, housing, employment, and social degradation had hardly been touched.
Finally, life in an urban ghetto, though lacking the humiliation of legal segregation, had brought another harsh reality into Afro-American life.
Survival for the individual as well as for the family came under fresh stress in urban slum situations.
This had also been true for immigrant groups from Europe.
Urban slum conditions created tremendous economic, social, and psychological strains.
Ghetto life added a new dimension of social disorganization to an already oppressed community.
The anonymity of life in large urban centers tended to remove many of the social constraints to individual behavior.
Actually, America had been deluded by the Civil Rights Movement into thinking that genuine changes were taking place for most Afro-Americans.
Watts became a living proclamation that this was not true. Early in 1967, violence began to reverberate throughout the ghettoes all across the nation.
The earliest disturbances occurred at three Southern universities.
Then, violence exploded in Tampa, Florida, in June.
Racial hostilities in Newark had been boiling for several months.
In spite of the black majority in Newark, a predominantly white political machine still ran City Hall.
Blacks were only given token recognition.
The event which actually triggered the riot was, again, a relatively meaningless arrest. Bystanders assumed, probably mistakenly, that the black taxi driver who was being arrested, was also being beaten by the arresting officer.
Bit by bit, again in a crazy pattern, the fires of frustration flared throughout the city.
The chief of staff of the New Jersey National Guard testified that there had been too much shooting at the snipers.
His opinion was that the Guard considered the situation as a military action.
Newark's director of police offered the opinion that the Guard may have been shooting at the police with the police shooting back at the Guard.
Of the twenty-one Negroes killed, six were women, two were children, and one was an elderly man seventy-three years old.
The Kerner Report also stated, as did the New Jersey report on the riot, that there had been considerable evidence that the police and the Guard had been deliberately shooting into stores containing "soul brother" signs.
Instead of merely quelling a riot or attacking rioters, some of them were apparently exploiting the situation to vent their own racial hatreds. The violence in Detroit exploded on July 22.
Again, it unfolded in an irrational, nightmarish fashion.
The police had been making some rather routine raids on five illegal after-hours drinking spots.
At the last target, they were overwhelmed to find eighty-two "in-mates.
They needed over an hour in which to arrest and remove all of them.
Small-scale looting and violence began. After sputtering and flaring for a few hours, the riot began to grow and spread rapidly.
He was further led to believe that such an action would mean that insurance companies would not pay for any damage.
For this reason, he refused to act.
All day, burning and looting continued and grew.
Shooting became increasingly widespread, and the number of deaths began to soar rapidly.
Finally, before midnight on Monday, President Johnson sent in federal troops on his own initiative. When the federal troops arrived, they found the city full of fear.
The Army believed that its first task was one of maintaining its own order and discipline.
Second, it strove to establish a rapport between the troops and the citizens as a basis on which to build an atmosphere of calm, trust, and order.
The soldiers provided coffee and sandwiches to the beleaguered residents, and an atmosphere of trust gradually developed. It became clear that the mutual fear between the police and the citizens had only intensified the catastrophe.
Lessons which had been learned two years earlier in Watts by the police and the Guard had not been applied in Detroit.
Law enforcement officials again overreacted and used high-powered military weapons in a crowded civilian situation.
This overreaction presented as much danger to innocent, law-abiding citizens as did the violence of the rioters.
There had also been a tendency to treat the residents, en masse, as enemies and thereby to weld them into a hostile community.
Thirty-three were black, and ten were white.
One Guardsman and one fireman were among the casualties.
Some of the other white victims had been killed while they were engaged in looting.
Damages were originally estimated at five hundred million dollars, but later estimates reduced the damage drastically. Again, as in Newark, there was evidence of police brutality during the riot.
The police were charged with brutality and murder in an incident which occurred at the Algiers Motel.
After hearing that there had been a sniper in the building, the police riddled it with bullets.
Then, they entered and searched it.
In the course of questioning its inhabitants, three youths were shot and killed. In turn, the police and the Guard accused the rioters of widespread sniping.
Twenty-seven rioters were charged with sniping, but twenty-two of these charges were dropped at the preliminary hearings for lack of evidence.
Later, one pleaded guilty to possessing an unregistered gun, and he received a suspended sentence. President Johnson appointed a commission, headed by Governor Otto Kerner of Illinois to investigate the causes of the riots.
In particular, he wished to ascertain whether any subversive or conspiratorial elements were involved.
Although many did not like the report, particularly because of the blame it laid on the white community, it clearly proved that there had been no subversive or conspiratorial elements in these riots.
The report warned that America was splitting into two nations: one black and one white.
It believed that racism and hatred were growing deeper and that communication between the two communities was breaking down.
The Commission made several recommendations for change in government, business, and society at large.
These changes, however, would be very expensive.
Government at all levels largely ignored the report. Liberals applauded it.
Blacks felt that it was merely another report; they wanted action.
Conservatives claimed that it was a prejudiced and unfair study. In April of 1968, another rash of riots swept through the Afro-American community.
This time there was a clear and obvious cause.
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who was visiting Memphis in support of a garbage workers' strike, was leaning over his motel's second-floor balcony railing talking to a colleague below when suddenly he was struck by a sniper's bullet and killed.
The nation was filled with horror and disbelief.
Robert Kennedy had gained the trust of Afro-Americans more than almost any other white man of his generation.
Violence seemed to reign supreme, and idealists, both black and white, were paralyzed by a feeling of futility. Black Power Even before the assassination of Martin Luther King, the Civil Rights Movement was disintegrating.
Many believed that it was being killed by the riots.
In fact, the Civil Rights Movement had already come under sharp attack both from within and from without.
The urban riots of the sixties, instead of being the cause of its demise, were symptoms of the disease in the urban, Afro-American communities--a disease for which the Civil Rights Movement had not been able to effect a cure.
In retrospect, it appears that there had always been voices from within the Afro-American community which had maintained that the Civil Rights Movement was not the panacea that many believed it to be.
To the contrary, militant blacks maintained that the Civil Rights Movement itself was one of the primary causes of the urban riots.
Stokeley Carmichael pointed out: "Each time the people ... saw Martin Luther King get slapped, they became angry; when they saw four little black girls bombed to death, they were angrier; and when nothing happened, they were steaming.
We had nothing to offer that they could see, except to go out and be beaten again.
We helped to build their frustration." As early as 1957, Robert F.
I just called the chairman of the board in my county.
I told him that I represented the NAACP, that we wanted to integrate the library, and that our own library had burned down.
And he said, 'Well, I don't see any reason why you can't use the same library that our people use.
It won't make any difference.
And after all, I don't read anyway.'" Williams claimed that a racist social system existed because the violence at the heart of that system went unchallenged.
Violence was an integral part of the racial system, and it had not been introduced into the system by Afro-Americans. "It is precisely this unchallenged violence that allows a racist social system to perpetuate itself.
When people say that they are opposed to Negroes 'resorting to violence' what they really mean is that they are opposed to Negroes defending themselves and challenging the exclusive monopoly of violence practiced by white racists.
We have shown in Monroe that with violence working both ways constituted law will be more inclined to keep the peace." Williams urged Monroe Negroes to carry guns and other weapons and to defend themselves when attacked.
He defended his position by invoking the teachings of Henry Thoreau who had also been used as an authority by the pacifists.
Although Thoreau usually supported pacifism, according to Williams, Thoreau also believed that there were occasions which justified violence.
Thoreau, who had defended John Brown's attack on Harpers Ferry, had made the statement that guns, for once, had been used for a righteous cause and were being held in righteous hands.
While the movement grew, the Black Muslims also grew.
Not only did they challenge the tactics of nonviolent resistance, they disagreed totally with its goals.
While Elijah Muhammed constantly opposed aggression, he did preach the need for self-defense.
To him it was not necessary for a man to turn the other cheek when he was hit.
He also ridiculed the Civil Rights goal of integration.
Instead of losing themselves in white America, Muslims believed in finding their own identity and in maintaining a separate society.
They claimed that blacks should not be ashamed of either their color or their heritage.
They taught that the black man had had a history of which to be proud.
Although the peculiar doctrines and puritanical practices of the Muslims prevented many from joining the movement, the number of its sympathizers grew rapidly.
King had gone to college and had even earned a doctorate.
Malcolm gained his reputation "hustling" on the streets of Boston and New York and also from teaching himself while serving a sentence in prison. In 1964 Malcolm X was forced to break with Elijah Muhammed.
Apparently, Elijah Muhammed had become threatened by Malcolm's charismatic appeal, and he feared he might lose his leadership in the movement.
After a pilgrimage to Mecca as well as visits to several newly independent African nations, Malcolm returned to America ready to start a movement of his own.
Although he believed more strongly than ever in Islam, he came to feel that several of the teachings of the Black Muslims were erroneous.
One reason was that in Mecca he had worshipped with people from all races.
Before any of these activities could get under way he was killed.
Malcolm X was gunned down by four blacks, probably associated with the Black Muslims, while addressing a meeting in New York City early in 1965. To Malcolm X the Civil Rights Movement was in need of a new interpretation.
The degree of segregation existing in schools and in the rest of society, he contended, had actually increased in the decade since the Supreme Court decision in 1954.
It seemed to him to be particularly true in the case of the de facto segregation practiced in the North.
Not long ago," he said, "the black man in America was fed a dose of another form of the weakening, lulling and deluding effects of so-called 'integration.
It was that 'Farce on Washington,' I call it.
Malcolm held that the famous March on Washington in 1963 had begun as a very angry, grass-roots movement among poor black people.
He said that whites took it over and turned a genuine protest into a sentimental, interracial picnic. Finally, Malcolm made it clear that he, too, was willing to resort to violence although he did not favor initiating it.
James Meredith, who had become famous for initiating federally backed integration of the University of Mississippi, was making a one-man freedom march across the South.
He sought to demonstrate that blacks could walk through the South without fear.
Their discussion became a heated debate about both the tactics and the goals of their struggle.
McKissick and Carmichael questioned the worth of nonviolence as a tactic and the value of integration as a goal.
They conjured up pictures of bloody retaliation.
Others saw it as a rejection of white allies, and they insisted that the freedom struggle could not be won without white help.
To Carmichael, the Civil Rights Movement as it existed was "pleading and begging.
It also had been wrong, he said, in assuming it was possible to build a working coalition between a group which was strong and economically secure--middle-class white liberals--and one which was insecure--poor blacks.
In his opinion, "there is in fact no group at present with whom to form a coalition in which blacks will not be absorbed and betrayed.
Two such differing groups had different sets of self-interest in spite of their similar sentiments. Carmichael contended that a genuine coalition had to be built between groups with similar self interests.
Further, he argued that each group must have its own independent base of power from which to negotiate the terms of a working alliance.
Black power, he said, was an attempt to build the strength on which future coalitions could be established. Carmichael also attacked the concept of integration.
If blacks wanted good housing or good education, integration meant leaving a black neighborhood and finding these things in white institutions.
This reinforces, among both black and white," he argued, "the idea that 'white' is automatically better and 'black' is by definition inferior. This is why integration is a subterfuge for the maintenance or white supremacy.
If blacks could gain control of their own neighborhoods, each community, black and white, could define its own goals and be responsible for achieving its own standards.
Blacks should be proud of being black, and they should be proud of their African past.
Instead of using skin lighteners and hair straighteners, black power advocates began adopting a style of dress with an African flavor.
To Carmichael there was still one other aspect to the black power philosophy.
It should accentuate human values and human dignity.
The prevailing system, besides being racist, put a primary emphasis on property rather than on humanity.
He referred to this new political system as "political modernization.
Its key was community, cooperative control of all the important things in people's lives.
In addition to building a more participatory kind of democratic government, and developing cooperative enterprises, it meant that people renting houses or apartments must have rights and protection.
He encouraged consumers and apartment dwellers to develop organizations which could fight for their special interests.
He also wanted the community to gain local control of its police force. The black power ideology spread across the nation rapidly, providing the movement with fresh impetus and a philosophical framework.
Many had lost faith in the effectiveness of marches, demonstrations, appeals to white consciences and other direct action techniques.
Black Americans were also growing weary and frustrated over the amount of violence which was being heaped upon nonviolent resisters.
In Bogalusa, Louisiana, blacks were intimidated daily by the local Ku Klux Klan.
Law enforcement officials never provided help either in terms of protection or in prosecuting wrongdoers.
In fact, the law enforcement officials themselves were increasingly suspected of belonging to the Klan.
Bogalusa blacks came to feel that arming themselves for self-defense was their only solution.
In 1966 a number of them armed themselves, and founded the Deacons for Defense and Justice.
Also in 1966, young blacks in Oakland, California, became extremely angry at what they believed to be police harassment. This resulted in their forming the Black Panther Party. Huey P.
Newton and Bobby Seale, both of whom had been raised under ghetto conditions, felt that there was a need for an organization which could communicate with poor blacks instead of merely appealing to the black bourgeoisie.
In Oakland, the Black Panthers began by keeping the police under surveillance as a means of limiting their alleged brutality.
Panther members carried registered guns and displayed them openly as the law permitted.
Whenever the police stopped to question someone, the following Panther car also stopped.
Then, the Panthers would stand nearby displaying their weapons, and someone who had some legal training, would inform the individual being questioned by the police what his legal rights were.
The police were extremely angry at this harassment and looked for ways to retaliate.
The best-known Panther recruit was Eldridge Cleaver who, like Malcolm X, had educated himself while in prison.
Cleaver wrote several articles for Ramparts magazine, and became well known for his book Soul on Ice.
His vivid writing helped the Panthers in spreading their ideas widely.
Gradually, chapters of the Black Panther party were established in ghettoes all across America. Besides demanding legal rights for blacks, the Black Panthers developed a ten-point program demanding decent jobs and decent housing.
Also, arguing that most black prisoners had been convicted in courts by people conspicuous for their racial prejudice, they advocated that all black inmates of American jails should immediately be released and granted amnesty.
Because blacks were not properly represented in the country and were not treated fairly as citizens, the Panthers contended that they should be exempted from all military service.
Blacks fighting in the Vietnam war, they pointed out, were represented in numbers above their national proportion and were being used to fight a racist war against colored people in Asia.
Carmichael had previously made this same point and had popularized the motto, "Hell No!
They expressed this teaching with the slogans, "All power to the people" and "Black power to the black people.
Eldridge Cleaver had also concluded that some young whites could be trusted to support the black cause.
He had been impressed with the commitment of some of the white college students, especially those connected with Students for a Democratic Society.
He recognized that there were some modern John Browns who could be depended on to help the cause.
In the 1968 election, the Panthers joined with militant white groups which were seeking both racial justice and an end to the war in Vietnam and formed the Peace and Freedom Party.
Although he was not old enough to meet the constitutional requirements, Eldridge Cleaver was nominated as the party's presidential candidate.
With Nixon's election, black and white radicals felt that the white and conservative backlash had taken over the "Establishment" and that official repression was bound to follow.
The police, at the same time, accused the Panthers of deliberately trying to kill "pigs," the Panthers' name for the police, and the Panthers accused the police of deliberately creating situations which would allow them to kill the Panther leadership.
Before long, most of the Panther leaders were either under arrest, had been killed, or had fled into exile to avoid being arrested. As civil disorders diminished in the ghettoes, college campuses were increasingly rocked by student riots.
In part, it was because students asked for changes in the university structure.
Black students demanded that courses in black studies be initiated and that colleges aggressively recruit new black students even if their grades were below admission standards.
Some urban schools, like Columbia University, were accused by black and white students of diminishing the housing of ghetto residents to make the university's expansion possible.
Other campus riots were aimed against the war in Vietnam.
At Jackson State in Mississippi, the police killed two black students.
Campus riots escalated, and dozens of colleges and universities were compelled to close their doors for the remainder of the academic year.
While some Americans felt that these killings were a result of government repression of the freedom of speech, others believed that more action of this kind was necessary to curb what they viewed as extremist protest.
Blacks again noticed that it had been the death of four white students which brought forth the widespread indignation.
They believed that killings of blacks by police and Guardsmen were usually taken for granted or ignored.
Even liberals, they believed, were only really stirred by repressive measures aimed against whites. When the Nixon Administration still refused to change its policies in response to these violent confrontations, radicals turned increasingly to the use of terrorist violence.
Bombings had been on the increase for a couple of years, and during the summer of 1970, they became even more frequent.
But the walls of the Establishment still did not come tumbling down.
Members of the Panthers, S.N.C.C., and the Weathermen--the left-wing of the Students for a Democratic Society--were generally thought to be responsible for much of this terrorism.
Instead of rallying fresh supporters to the cause of the radical left, their terrorism only served to alienate other moderates and radicals.
At the same time, when Bobby Seale of the Black Panthers was brought to trial for allegedly participating in the murder of an ex-Panther, only a handful of spectators attended the opening of his trial.
Pessimism, cynicism, and despair were widespread, and many advocates of change had become paralyzed by futility, but neither black nor white protesters had surrendered to the status quo.
Both groups were rethinking their attitudes.
Instead of using massive campaigns with mass media coverage, the Movement had switched its emphasis to the routine, day-by-day organization of support.
In 1966 the Black Power Movement had contained more rhetoric than power.
In 1971 it was still alive, but blacks were working in practical ways, limiting themselves to workable objectives.
The Afro-American community was quietly building community organizations to create the economic and political foundations necessary for the future.
Mass protests and radical slogans, even when they received worldwide attention, had not had enough muscle to change power relationships.
Afro-Americans, then, turned to the more grueling and inglorious job of trying to put their theories into practice. Epilogue What insights can the study of history bring to the understanding and solution of the American racial situation?
How can the knowledge of yesterday's events help us to face tomorrow's decisions?
The fact is, whether we know it or not, that the past is always with us and clings tightly to us like a cloak.
All Americans, black and white, inhale and assimilate more racism than we care to admit.
Denying that we are still infected by prejudice, however, does not help us to deal creatively with it.
On this point, the study of Afro-American history raises a particular question about the means of social change.
These factors, however, have not been totally irrelevant.
The American democratic creed has prevented the nation from building a permanent legal caste system based on color.
As a legal structure, Jim Crow lasted less than a century and was limited to the Deep South.
Idealism has made it impossible for America to rest comfortably while pursuing its racist policies. Violence is a tempting technique for the frustrated and angry.
In fact, it often has accompanied rapid social change, but it is usually a by-product of shifting power relationships in society rather than the cause of change itself.
Trusting in violence is a form of revolutionary romanticism, a seductive shortcut to other more basic kinds of social power.
The history of the Black Panthers would seem to be an example of this point.
Their appeal to violence attracted angry youths who were eager for quick results.
Although the party gained a lot of publicity, and, in some quarters, received a lot of applause, its desire for rapid success kept it from building a solid, mass base.
Apparently its leaders believed that violence made this kind of mobilization unnecessary.
Its publicity and quick successes were superficial and failed to achieve basic social transformation.
On Wednesday, May 19, 1971, Huey Newton, the Black Panther Minister of Defense, declared that the Panthers had been wrong in confronting the police: "All we got was a war and a lot of bloodshed.
We cannot jump from A to Z as some thought." Throughout history almost all social transformations have been the result of shifts in basic power relationships.
The attempt to build political and economic power on a nationwide basis within the black community is a relatively new phenomenon.
Reconstruction had attempted to do it earlier, but it was destroyed before it could be tested.
Almost all other black economic and political involvement has been dependent on sizable white support.
This was true both of the policies of Booker T.
Washington and of the Civil Rights Movement.
In fact, this meant a reliance on white power and on white conscience.
The new spirit of black pride and self-reliance along with the new voting rights has already created pockets of black political strength in many Northern cities and in parts of the rural South.
It is also being reflected in the Congress with the election of more blacks and with their creation of the Black Caucus, presently consisting of thirteen black congressmen.
After submitting a list of their demands to President Nixon, their spokesman, Representative William Clay, D-Mo., said: "We are going to set the tone for the black liberation struggle in this country....
Black people in this country have no permanent friends, no permanent enemies, only permanent interests....
I think we've reached the point in black America where we've completely given up on the mass demonstrations, sit-ins and boycotts.
We've come to the basic conclusion that America has no conscience.
Anybody who still appeals to what they think is a conscience is either stupid or frustrated.
The only possible avenue for the achievement of equal rights for all in this country is through the exertion of political power.
We have actual power, and even greater potential power, more than we've ever had in history." As Representative Clay maintains, striving for racial change through an appeal to conscience has been found woefully inadequate.
The resort to physical force has not been followed very often and, when it has, it has been used sporadically.
To succeed, it obviously requires its own kind of mass power base to bring about lasting results.
The creation of genuine black political power which was preached in 1966 is only being achieved now.
It has already gained significant local results.
In the Black Caucus, it promises broader national influence.
Trusting to white consciences has been proven naive.
Looking to terrorism for quick results has only led to publicity and bloodshed.
Building genuine political power, however, is producing results now and promises to create more social transformation in the immediate future. End of Project Gutenberg's The Black Experience in America, by Norman Coombs
Had Phaidor's slim blade found that beloved heart?
In their rage they had torn her to pieces. From the high pinnacle of their egotism the First Born had been plunged to the depths of humiliation.
Their deity was gone, and with her the whole false fabric of their religion.
My heart could never be with the race that had heaped indignities upon my princess and my son. At my suggestion Xodar became Jeddak of the First Born.
Ten thousand swords sprang on high from as many scabbards, and the glorious fighting men of ancient Helium hailed Carthoris Jeddak of Helium. His tenure of office was to be for life or until his great-grandfather, or grandfather, should return.
Only Woola, my Martian hound, accompanied me. At my heels tonight the faithful beast moved softly in my tracks.
The farther moon lay close to the horizon, casting a dense shadow beneath the cliffs that fringed the water.
Thuria, the nearer moon, had set, nor would it rise again for near four hours, so that I was ensured concealing darkness for that length of time at least. On and on went the black warrior.
Now he was opposite the mouth of the Iss.
He hugged the shore where the current was less strong. Presently he came to the dark cavernous portal in the face of the Golden Cliffs, through which the river poured.
Instead I stopped close to the opposite wall beneath an overhanging mass of rock that cast a dense shadow beneath it.
The five paddlers sent the larger boat ahead at a speed that taxed my energies to equal. Every instant I expected to feel my prow crash against solid rock.
The noise of their own paddles drowned the sound of mine, but in another instant the growing light ahead would reveal me to them. There was no time to be lost.
Whatever action I was to take must be taken at once.
I am leading you into no trap.
Nor had I long to wait.
I listened intently. "There are no obligations, Father of Therns," continued the First Born. "Thurid, Dator of Issus, has no price.
How, then, may you accomplish the impossible?" "Access may be had to any cell of the temple at any time," replied Thurid.
Only Issus knew this; nor was it ever Issus' way to divulge more of her secrets than were necessary.
I must trust you, yet at the same time you must trust me, for we are six to your one." "I do not fear," replied Thurid, "nor need you.
There was no means by which I might know, and so I chose the center opening as being as likely to lead me in the right direction as another. Here the way was through utter darkness.
It could have come from no others than the party I sought. Quickly I abandoned all thought of the left-hand passage, and a moment later had turned into the right.
The stream soon widened, and recurring areas of phosphorescent rock lighted my way. I made good time, but was convinced that I was nearly a day behind those I was tracking.
The sorapus nutshell had proved a false prophet, and, after all, my intuition had been correct-it was the left-hand channel that I should have followed. Had I been a woman I should have wept.
At my right was a great, slow-moving eddy that circled far beneath the cliff's overhanging side, and to rest my tired muscles before turning back I let my boat drift into its embrace. I was almost prostrated by disappointment.
It would mean another half-day's loss of time to retrace my way and take the only passage that yet remained unexplored.
As usual, I thought rapidly. A rope lay coiled in the bottom of my own craft.
Very softly I gathered it up, and making one end fast to the bronze ring in the prow I stepped gingerly into the boat beside me.
In one hand I grasped the rope, in the other my keen long-sword. For a full minute, perhaps, I stood motionless after entering the strange craft.
That they could be none other than Thurid and his party I was convinced by the size and build of the boat I had found. Calling to Woola to follow me I stepped out upon the ledge.
Against what, pray, should we guard this long-forgotten, abysmal path?
And what think you of the ridiculous matter of the light?
Let the light shine with the intensity of three radium units for fifty tals, and for one xat let it shine with the intensity of one radium unit, and then for twenty-five tals with nine units.
Those were his very words, and to think that wise old Matai Shang should listen to such foolishness." "Indeed, it is silly," replied Lakor.
It will open nothing other than the way to a quick death for us all.
What say you?" "Never in a long life," answered Lakor, "have I disobeyed a single command of the Father of Therns.
At sight of me their long-swords flashed from the harness at their sides, but I raised my hand in a gesture of restraint. "I seek Thurid, the black dator," I said.
My quarrel is with him, not with you.
There will be plenty of time to fight if we find it wise to fight at all.
There be good reasons why every thern upon Barsoom should yearn to spill the blood of the blasphemer, the sacrilegist; but let us mix wisdom with our righteous hate.
The Prince of Helium is bound upon an errand which we ourselves, but a moment since, were wishing that we might undertake. "Let him go then and slay the black.
Go!" During our conversation Woola had been growling and bristling close to my side.
Occasionally he would look up into my face with a low, pleading whine, as though begging for the word that would send him headlong at the bare throats before him.
In the end it shall be all the same." I turned and followed Woola into the left-hand passage, and though my back was toward my enemies, my ears were on the alert; yet I heard no sound of pursuit.
John Carter would have found it a short road to death had he taken it as you suggested to him." "Yes," said Lakor, "no amount of fighting ability would have saved him from the pivoted flagstone.
He surely would have stepped upon it, and by now, if the pit beneath it has a bottom, which Thurid denies, he should have been rapidly approaching it.
Curses on that calot of his that warned him toward the safer avenue!" "There be other dangers ahead of him, though," spoke Lakor's fellow, "which he may not so easily escape-should he succeed in escaping our two good swords.
The very presence of the two proclaimed their treachery.
Then I glanced above me along the upper edge of the entrance to which we had come, and there, to my delight, I saw an end of the gallery not a foot above my head.
But how to reach them, now that I had found the only vulnerable spot in their mighty prison, was still a baffling riddle. Slowly I circled the great shaft, looking for a means of ingress.
No button or lock were visible.
For a moment he hesitated, and then leaped after me, whining and tugging at my harness to draw me back.
I walked on, however, some distance from the door before I let him have his way, that I might see precisely what he would do.
Then I permitted him to lead me wherever he would. Straight back to that baffling portal he dragged me, again taking up his position facing the blank stone, gazing straight at its shining surface.
Such a tiny keyhole as now defied me had opened the way to the intricate lock in that other door. Hastily I dumped the contents of my pocket-pouch upon the ground before me.
Those last twenty-five tals were the longest twenty-five seconds of my life. Would the lock click at the end of those seemingly interminable intervals of time? Twenty-three!
Twenty-five! I shut off the light with a snap.
For seven tals I waited-there had been no appreciable effect upon the lock's mechanism.
Could it be that my theory was entirely wrong? Hold!
Had the nervous strain resulted in a hallucination, or did the door really move?
Scarcely was the entrance uncovered than Woola and I had leaped through-then the door slipped quietly back into place. Down the corridor at some distance I saw the faint reflection of a light, and toward this we made our way.
Somewhere above me was Dejah Thoris, unless Thurid and Matai Shang had already succeeded in stealing her. We had scarcely started up the runway when Woola suddenly displayed the wildest excitement.
Here was another doorway leading into a corridor which ran directly down a steep incline.
After all, his strange instinct might be more dependable than my faulty human judgment. And well it was that I had been forced to follow him.
Then I crept out to approach the fortress walls in search of a way within. Either through carelessness or over-confidence in the supposed inaccessibility of their hiding place, the triple-barred gate stood ajar.
Similarly they looked at Woola, growling at my heel. "Kaor!
I said in true Martian greeting, and the warriors arose and saluted me.
I have but just found my way hither from the Golden Cliffs," I continued, "and seek audience with the hekkador, Matai Shang, Father of Therns.
Before me a door opened, presumably, upon the inner court beyond.
It was of the strangely beautiful modern Barsoomian style of architecture, its entire surface hand carved in bold relief with intricate and fanciful designs.
Thirty feet above the courtyard and overlooking it was a broad balcony, and there, indeed, was Matai Shang, and with him were Thurid and Phaidor, Thuvia, and Dejah Thoris-the last two heavily ironed.
A handful of thern warriors stood just behind the little party. As I entered the enclosure the eyes of those in the balcony were full upon me. An ugly smile distorted the cruel lips of Matai Shang.
Thurid hurled a taunt at me and placed a familiar hand upon the shoulder of my princess.
Then, as the banths were about to close upon me, she turned and buried her dear face in her arms. Suddenly my attention was drawn toward Thuvia of Ptarth.
Those banths will never harm you now, nor Woola, either." It was all I cared to know.
There was naught to keep me from that balcony now, and with a long, running leap I sprang far aloft until my hands grasped its lowest sill. In an instant all was wild confusion.
Thurid sprang forward with drawn sword to cut me down. Again Dejah Thoris wielded her heavy irons and fought him back.
Two of the guards she ordered to bear away Thuvia of Ptarth; the others she commanded to remain and prevent me from following.
Then she turned toward me. "John Carter," she cried, "for the last time I offer you the love of Phaidor, daughter of the Holy Hekkador.
Accept and your princess shall be returned to the court of her grandfather, and you shall live in peace and happiness.
Refuse and the fate that my father has threatened shall fall upon Dejah Thoris. "You cannot save her now, for by this time they have reached a place where even you may not follow.
Refuse and naught can save you; for, though the way to the last stronghold of the Holy Therns was made easy for you, the way hence hath been made impossible.
What say you?" "You knew my answer, Phaidor," I replied, "before ever you spoke.
Up this he dashed, I in close pursuit.
I have no quarrel with you, nor do I crave your life.
Go!" For answer he sprang upon me with his sword, and so suddenly, at that, that I was like to have gone down before his first rush.
Above me I could see windows.
There, possibly, lay the only way by which I could reach her.
The risk was great, but not too great when the fate of a world's most wondrous woman was at stake. I glanced below.
The voice was Matai Shang's.
But to be doubly sure, I will leave two who shall patrol this runway.
Later they may follow us upon another flier-overtaking us at Kaol." My upstretched fingers never reached the window's sill.
It is a carnivorous plant of about the bigness of a large sage-brush such as dots our western plains.
Then, having eaten, too, I lay down with my back to that of my faithful hound, and dropped into a deep and dreamless sleep. The forest was shrouded in impenetrable darkness when a low growl from Woola awakened me.
All about us I could hear the stealthy movement of great, padded feet, and now and then the wicked gleam of green eyes upon us.
Arising, I drew my long-sword and waited. Suddenly a deep-toned, horrid roar burst from some savage throat almost at my side.
Only this poisoned spear pricking the very heart of a sith can kill it quickly enough to save its prey.
I have eyes and ears and ordinary intelligence, and yesterday morning I saw the party that came to the city of Kaol from the north in a small flier.
I have seen no one-John Carter least of all.
Nor have you seen Torkar Bar, nor ever heard of him.
You understand?" "Perfectly," I replied. He laid his hand upon my shoulder. "This road leads directly into the city of Kaol," he said.
To a height of thirty feet the face of the wall slanted outward, and then for almost an equal distance it was perpendicular, above which it slanted in again for some fifteen feet to the crest. And smooth!
Polished glass could not be more so.
If your vocation be shoeing horses, or painting pictures, and you can do one or the other better than your fellows, then you are a fool if you are not proud of your ability.
Nor was I to be disappointed in my desire. All day we fought, until the road was red with blood and clogged with corpses.
No slightest indication that he recognized me showed upon his countenance-my disguise was evidently complete. He spoke kindly to me and then presented me to Thurid.
The black, too, was evidently entirely deceived.
Was he commencing to suspect?
Though my eyes and ears had been wide open during my audience with the jeddak and my various passages through the palace, I had seen or heard nothing of Dejah Thoris or Thuvia of Ptarth.
Instantly I sprang to my feet, clutching in the direction I thought the presence lay.
Beneath showed the tanned texture of my own white skin. For a moment Thurid ceased speaking, to enhance, I suspect, the dramatic effect of his disclosure.
Then he resumed. "Here, O Kulan Tith," he cried, "is he who has desecrated the temples of the Gods of Mars, who has violated the persons of the Holy Therns themselves and turned a world against its age-old religion.
Before you, in your power, Jeddak of Kaol, Defender of the Holies, stands John Carter, Prince of Helium!" Kulan Tith looked toward Matai Shang as though for corroboration of these charges.
The Holy Thern nodded his head. "It is indeed the arch-blasphemer," he said.
Even now he has followed me to the very heart of thy palace, Kulan Tith, for the sole purpose of assassinating me.
Kulan Tith, listen that you may know the truth. Listen while I tell you why John Carter has followed Matai Shang to the heart of thy palace.
Kulan Tith need not permit the air of his audience chamber to be defiled by the heresies that issue from your polluted throat to judge you. "You stand already self-condemned.
It but remains to determine the manner of your death.
To the pits with him!" he concluded, addressing the officer of my guard. Here was a pretty pass, indeed!
What chance had I against a whole nation?
What hope for me of mercy at the hands of the fanatical Kulan Tith with such advisers as Matai Shang and Thurid.
The black grinned malevolently in my face. "You shall not escape this time, Earth man," he taunted. The guards closed toward me.
A red haze blurred my vision.
I could see by the expression of his face that he was sore perplexed.
Then he spoke. "Thuvan Dihn," he said, and his tone was friendly though sad, "who am I to judge my fellow-man?
Rage flamed in his keen eyes; but by the masterfulness of his self-control he kept his tones level as he spoke. "Knew you this thing, Kulan Tith?" he asked.
Knew you that my daughter lay a prisoner in your palace?" "He could not know it," interrupted Matai Shang, white with what I am sure was more fear than rage.
It is not a lie.
This much have I learned of the Prince of Helium-he does not lie.
Answer me, Kulan Tith-I have asked you a question." "Three women came with the Father of Therns," replied Kulan Tith. "Phaidor, his daughter, and two who were reported to be her slaves.
If these be Thuvia of Ptarth and Dejah Thoris of Helium I did not know it-I have seen neither.
My arms ached to enfold once more the divine form of her whose eternal youth and undying beauty were but outward manifestations of a perfect soul. At last the messenger despatched to fetch Matai Shang returned.
For a moment the silence of death reigned in the great audience chamber of Kulan Tith, Jeddak of Kaol.
It was he who broke the spell. Rising from his throne he stepped down from the dais to the side of Thuvan Dihn.
Tears dimmed his eyes as he placed both his hands upon the shoulders of his friend. "O Thuvan Dihn," he cried, "that this should have happened in the palace of thy best friend!
With my own hands would I have wrung the neck of Matai Shang had I guessed what was in his foul heart.
Say the word!" "First," I suggested, "let us find those of your people who be responsible for the escape of Matai Shang and his followers.
Without assistance on the part of the palace guard this thing could not have come to pass.
Last night it was I who commanded the palace guard.
Then a sudden light brightened his countenance. "I have it!" he cried.
Only yesterday Matai Shang let drop a hint of his destination, telling me of a race of people unlike ourselves who dwell far to the north.
They, he said, had always been known to the Holy Therns and were devout and faithful followers of the ancient cult. Among them would he find a perpetual haven of refuge, where no 'lying heretics' might seek him out.
It is there that Matai Shang has gone." "And in all Kaol there be no flier wherein to follow," I cried. "Nor nearer than Ptarth," replied Thuvan Dihn. "Wait!
I exclaimed, "beyond the southern fringe of this great forest lies the wreck of the thern flier which brought me that far upon my way.
I cast a look of questioning surprise upon him.
He turned to the highest of his own officers who had accompanied him to Kaol. "To you I entrust the return of my retinue to Ptarth," he said.
There my son rules ably in my absence.
The Prince of Helium shall not go alone into the land of his enemies.
With the journey all but completed to be thus wrecked upon the wrong side of that precipitous and unscalable wall of rock and ice! I looked at Thuvan Dihn.
How may we pass that which is impassable?" "First we must disprove its impassability," I replied.
Nor shall I admit that it is impassable before I have followed its entire circle and stand again upon this spot, defeated.
Fierce, fur-bearing creatures attacked us by daylight and by dark.
That I should have lived to witness the reality of the fabled Carrion Caves!
It is a horrid avenue to our goal, but it is the only one." "You are sure, then, that we have found the way to the land of the yellow men?
I cried. "As sure as may be," he replied; "having only ancient legend to support my belief.
But see how closely, so far, each detail tallies with the world-old story of the hegira of the yellow race.
I will go first, and you bring up the rear, with Woola between.
Then, within the eighth cave, we came upon a lair of apts. A full score of the mighty beasts were disposed about the chamber.
Should we all go on and perish, there will be none to guide a succoring party to Dejah Thoris and your daughter." "I shall not return and leave you here alone, John Carter," replied Thuvan Dihn.
Whether you go on to victory or death, the Jeddak of Ptarth remains at your side.
This huge fellow roamed restlessly about, nosing among his companions and the abhorrent litter of the cave. Occasionally he would stop to peer intently toward first one of the exits from the chamber and then the other.
It was straight and two-edged.
He then went through the same ceremony with Thuvan Dihn. Next he asked our names, and from what land we hailed.
He seemed quite familiar with the geography of the outerworld, and when I said I was from Helium he raised his brows. "Ah," he said, "you seek your ruler and his company?" "Know you of them?
I asked. "But little more than that they were captured by my uncle, Salensus Oll, Jeddak of Jeddaks, Ruler of Okar, land of the yellow men of Barsoom.
But now, as to thine own affairs.
How may I aid you?
My palace is at your disposal, if you wish to honor me by coming to Marentina." "When our work is done we shall be glad to accept your invitation," I replied.
You must have yellow faces and black beards, and your apparel and trappings must be those least likely to arouse suspicion.
Our skins were of the same lemon color as his own, and great, black beards and mustaches had been deftly affixed to our smooth faces.
It lies in a low depression near the pole, surrounded by rocky, snow-clad hills.
From the pass through which we entered the valley we had a splendid view of this great city of the north.
The crucial test had come. Could we but deceive these men the rest would be comparatively easy. "Kaor!
Only yesterday we arrived, and this morning the captain of the gate told us that you were setting out to hunt orluks, which is a sport we do not find in our own neighborhood.
We have hastened after you to pray that you allow us to accompany you." The officer was entirely deceived, and graciously permitted us to go with them for the day.
They moved leisurely, as though there were no need for haste-nor was there, as I was presently to learn. Then I turned my eyes once more toward the flier.
She was moving rapidly toward the city, and when she had come close enough I was surprised to see that her propellers were idle. Straight for that grim shaft she bore.
I am a fighting man, not a scientist. Here, at last, was an explanation of the long absence of Tardos Mors and Mors Kajak.
There is no privacy for other than married couples. Men without their wives are escorted to a large chamber, the floor of which is usually of white marble or heavy glass, kept scrupulously clean.
The number of guards and gorgeousness of their trappings quite usually denote the status of the hotel. No meals are served in these houses, but generally a public eating place adjoins them.
My companion but shook his head disconsolately and walked to one of the windows upon the far side of the apartment. Scarcely had he gazed beyond them than he called to me in a tone of suppressed excitement and surprise.
I heard Thuvan Dihn call aloud to Thuvia, but an instant later his exclamation of surprise betokened that he, too, had been repulsed by his own daughter. "They will not even listen," he cried to me.
They have put their hands over their ears and walked to the farther end of the garden.
Ever heard you of such mad work, John Carter?
Could it be that my incomparable princess still clung to the hideous faith from which I had rescued her world?
You know the fate that awaits you at his hands.
Would you not choose me rather than the other?" "I would choose neither," replied Dejah Thoris, "even were I free to choose, as you know well I am not." "You ARE free!" he cried.
I ducked beneath his outstretched arms, and as he lunged past me I planted a terrific right upon the side of his jaw. Just as he had done upon that other occasion he did now.
Like a top he spun round, his knees gave beneath him, and he crumpled to the ground at my feet.
At his right stood Matai Shang, and behind them a score of guardsmen. "Who are you," he cried, "and what means this intrusion within the precincts of the women's garden?
I do not recall your face.
How came you here?" But for his last words I should have forgotten my disguise entirely and told him outright that I was John Carter, Prince of Helium; but his question recalled me to myself.
The fellow had come into the garden to assist them to escape.
I was beyond and overheard their conversation, and when I entered, the woman screamed and the man sprang upon me and would have killed me. "What know you of this man?
He is a stranger to you, and I dare say that you will find him an enemy and a spy.
Let him be put on trial, Salensus Oll, rather than your friend and guest, Thurid, Dator of the First Born." Salensus Oll looked puzzled.
Thurid and Matai Shang went also, and as they reached the gateway the black turned and laughed again aloud in my face. What could be the meaning of his sudden change toward me?
Could he suspect my true identity?
Could it be possible that they had escaped?
A great number of nobles crowded the room, and among them I saw Thurid, but Matai Shang was not there. Dejah Thoris, as radiantly beautiful as ever, sat upon a small throne beside Salensus Oll.
For a year no queen has sat upon the throne beside me, and now it suits me to take to wife one who is reputed the most beautiful woman upon Barsoom.
John Carter, Prince of Helium, still lives.
I know it to be true, for I overheard Matai Shang tell his daughter Phaidor that he had seen him in Kaor, at the court of Kulan Tith, Jeddak.
A jeddak does not wed a married woman, nor will Salensus Oll thus violate the bonds of matrimony." Salensus Oll turned upon Thurid with an ugly look. "Is this the surprise you held in store for me?" he cried.
You assured me that no obstacle which might not be easily overcome stood between me and this woman, and now I find that the one insuperable obstacle intervenes.
I am no child to be thus played with." "I am talking only as a man who knows," replied Thurid.
John Carter is a white man.
This fellow be as yellow as myself.
John Carter's face is smooth-Matai Shang has described him to me.
This prisoner has a beard and mustache as large and black as any in Okar.
A moment only and she was before me with outstretched arms and eyes filled with the light of her great love. "John Carter!
John Carter!" she cried as I folded her to my breast, and then of a sudden I knew why she had denied me in the garden beneath the tower. What a fool I had been!
Expecting that she would penetrate the marvelous disguise that had been wrought for me by the barber of Marentina!
She had not known me, that was all; and when she saw the sign of love from a stranger she was offended and righteously indignant.
Indeed, but I had been a fool. "And it was you," she cried, "who spoke to me from the tower!
Lives there upon any world such another as John Carter, Prince of Helium?
Lives there another man who could fight his way back and forth across a warlike planet, facing savage beasts and hordes of savage men, for the love of a woman? "I, Dejah Thoris, Princess of Helium, am his.
He fought for me and won me.
If you be a brave man you will honor the bravery that is his, and you will not kill him.
Make him a slave if you will, Salensus Oll; but spare his life.
I would rather be a slave with such as he than be Queen of Okar." "Neither slave nor queen dictates to Salensus Oll," replied the Jeddak of Jeddaks.
As I opened it a few lozenges fell to the floor.
As I gathered them up, feeling of them and smelling of them, I discovered that they were tablets of concentrated food such as are quite common in all parts of Barsoom. Poison!
I thought. Well, what of it?
Why not end my misery now rather than drag out a few more wretched days in this dark pit?
Slowly I raised one of the little pellets to my lips. "Good-bye, my Dejah Thoris!
There were four separate and distinct combinations of raised lines.
Then I took it more slowly.
Follow the rope." "FOLLOW THE ROPE" What could it mean? "Follow the rope.
What rope? Presently I recalled the cord that had been attached to the parcel when it fell at my side, and after a little groping my hand came in contact with it again.
Then I made another discovery-there was a second message knotted in the rope at about the height of my head.
This I deciphered more easily, now that the key was mine. "Bring the rope with you.
Beyond the knots lies danger." That was all there was to this message.
So this was the meaning of the words: "Follow the rope." The tunnel through which I crawled was low and dark.
You know that you hate Salensus Oll and that nothing would please you more than to thwart him in some cherished plan.
I will do the rest, and then, when I am gone, you may come and throw the great switch back into its place, and all will be as before.
I need but an hour's start to be safe beyond the devilish power that you control in this hidden chamber beneath the palace of your master.
See how easy," and with the words the black dator rose from his seat and, crossing the room, laid his hand upon a large, burnished lever that protruded from the opposite wall. "No!
No!" cried the little old man, springing after him, with a wild shriek.
That controls the sunray tanks, and should you pull it too far down, all Kadabra would be consumed by heat before I could replace it.
You know not with what mighty powers you play.
This is the lever that you seek.
Note well the symbol inlaid in white upon its ebon surface." Thurid approached and examined the handle of the lever. "Ah, a magnet," he said.
It is settled then I take it," he continued. The old man hesitated.
A look of combined greed and apprehension overspread his none too beautiful features. "Double the figure," he said.
Even that were all too small an amount for the service you ask.
Why, I risk my life by even entertaining you here within the forbidden precincts of my station.
Should Salensus Oll learn of it he would have me thrown to the apts before the day was done." "He dare not do that, and you know it full well, Solan," contradicted the black.
Too great a power of life and death you hold over the people of Kadabra for Salensus Oll ever to risk threatening you with death.
Am I right?" "Quite right, Dator," answered Solan; "and now begone.
The croon changed to a querulous muttering, and finally to an ugly growl. Then the old man rose from the table, shaking his fist at the closed door.
Now he raised his voice, and his words came distinctly. "Fool!" he muttered.
Think you that for your happiness Solan will give up his life?
If you escaped, Salensus Oll would know that only through my connivance could you have succeeded.
Then would he send for me.
What would you have me do?
Reduce the city and myself to ashes?
No, fool, there is a better way-a better way for Solan to keep thy money and be revenged upon Salensus Oll." He laughed in a nasty, cackling note. "Poor fool!
You may throw the great switch that will give you the freedom of the air of Okar, and then, in fatuous security, go on with thy red princess to the freedom of-death.
When you have passed beyond this chamber in your flight, what can prevent Solan replacing the switch as it was before your vile hand touched it?
The cord, almost invisible upon the floor, stretched straight across the apartment to a door upon the far side. There was no other way of which I knew, nor could I afford to ignore the advice to "follow the rope.
What was I to do?
Which way should I turn?
I was nonplused. A careful examination of the end of the rope revealed the fact that it had been cleanly cut with some sharp instrument.
It leads to the watchtower upon the south wall.
The walls of the room were lined with racks in which were hundreds of straight and hooked swords, javelins, and daggers.
It was evidently an armory.
There were but three warriors guarding the workers. My eyes took in the entire scene at a glance.
Here were weapons in plenty!
Who are you?" he demanded.
What do you here?" "I come for Tardos Mors, Jeddak of Helium, and his son, Mors Kajak," I cried, pointing to the two red prisoners, who had now sprung to their feet, wide-eyed in astonished recognition. "Rise, red men!
In an instant both lay dead upon the floor.
But their cries had not been entirely fruitless, for now I heard answering shouts and the footfalls of many men running and the clank of accouterments and the commands of officers. "The door!
Quick, John Carter, bar the door!" cried Tardos Mors. Already the guard was in sight, charging across the open court that was visible through the doorway. A dozen seconds would bring them into the tower.
A single leap carried me to the heavy portal.
To Tardos Mors I went first, asking where the keys might be which would unfasten their fetters. "The officer of the guard has them," replied the Jeddak of Helium, "and he is among those without who seek entrance.
You will have to force them." Most of the prisoners were already hacking at their bonds with the swords in their hands.
The yellow men were battering at the door with javelins and axes. I turned my attention to the chains that held Tardos Mors.
There you may defend the tower against all Kadabra.
Turn and turn about we held the top of the runway while the others feasted their eyes upon the sight of our valiant countrymen battling far beneath us. Now they have rushed the palace gate!
Great battering-rams are dashed against its formidable surface.
And such retribution as that unconquered army would deal out to the hateful Okarians!
I sighed to think that I might not be alive to witness it. Again I turned to the windows.
A mighty fleet of fliers was approaching majestically toward Kadabra from the direction of the ice-barrier.
I shuddered at the thought, for I could vividly picture the whole horrible scene. Quick have I always been to decide and act.
The impulse that moves me and the doing of the thing seem simultaneous; for if my mind goes through the tedious formality of reasoning, it must be a subconscious act of which I am not objectively aware.
It opened into a small chamber, luxuriously furnished, and was evidently an ante-chamber off some office or audience chamber of the palace. On the far side was a heavily curtained doorway beyond which I heard the hum of voices.
Instantly I crossed the small chamber, and, parting the curtains, looked within the larger apartment. Before me were a party of perhaps fifty gorgeously clad nobles of the court, standing before a throne upon which sat Salensus Oll.
The Jeddak of Jeddaks was addressing them. "The allotted hour has come," he was saying as I entered the apartment; "and though the enemies of Okar be within her gates, naught may stay the will of Salensus Oll.
A priest opened a book and, raising his hand, commenced to drone out a sing-song ritual.
Then the fifty nobles rushed upon me.
Was Dejah Thoris preparing to take her place beside me? Heroic daughter of a heroic world!
Where is the Jeddak of Jeddaks?
The city has fallen before the hordes from beyond the barrier, and but now the great gate of the palace itself has been forced and the warriors of the south are pouring into its sacred precincts. "Where is Salensus Oll?
He alone may revive the flagging courage of our warriors.
He alone may save the day for Okar.
For the Prince of Helium!" and, like hungry lions upon their prey, they fell once more upon the weakening warriors of the north. The yellow men, cornered between two enemies, fought with the desperation that utter hopelessness often induces.
Why had I permitted the rapid development of new situations to efface the recollection of that menacing danger?
But, alas, vain regret would not erase the calamity that had befallen. Once again had Dejah Thoris fallen into the clutches of that archfiend, Thurid, the black dator of the First Born.
Again was all my arduous labor gone for naught.
The stretch where I must hug the left wall to avoid the pits was darkest of them all, and I was nearly over the edge of the abyss before I knew that I was near the danger spot.
A narrow ledge, scarce a foot wide, was all that had been left to carry the initiated past that frightful cavity into which the unknowing must surely have toppled at the first step.
Phaidor entered the small cabin upon the vessel's deck. I had come to within a quarter of a mile of them when Matai Shang espied me.
A long, claw-like hand was reaching up to grasp the metal rail. Thurid leaned farther down toward his co-conspirator. Suddenly a raised dagger gleamed in the upflung hand of the black.
Down it drove toward the white face of the Father of Therns.
With a loud shriek of fear the Holy Hekkador grasped frantically at that menacing arm. I was almost to the trailing rope by now.
The craft was still rising slowly, the while it drifted from me.
Tightly as I clung I felt the rope slipping, slipping through my grasp.
He was opposite the forward end of the cabin, while I was attempting to clamber aboard near the vessel's stern.
But a few paces lay between us.
No power on earth could raise me to that deck before the infuriated black would be upon me. My end had come.
I knew it; but had there been a doubt in my mind the nasty leer of triumph upon that wicked face would have convinced me. Beyond Thurid I could see my Dejah Thoris, wide-eyed and horrified, struggling at her bonds.
That she should be forced to witness my awful death made my bitter fate seem doubly cruel. I ceased my efforts to climb across the gunwale.
I cast a last look upon my beloved princess, smiling, as men should who are about to die.
Then I turned my face up toward Phaidor-waiting for the blow. Never have I seen that beautiful face more beautiful than it was at that moment.
You wonder, John Carter," she said, "what strange thing has wrought this change in me?
It is love-love of you," and when I darkened my brows in disapproval of her words she raised an appealing hand. "Wait," she said.
Her buoyancy tanks leaked badly.
Her engine would not start.
We were helpless there in mid air above the arctic ice. The craft had drifted across the chasm which held the corpses of Matai Shang, Thurid, and Phaidor, and now hung above a low hill.
You dream not what you do!" "Right you are," I replied.
John Carter does not dream.
You turn their own mighty power against them.
The hand of every race and nation was raised in continual strife and warring against the men of every other land and color.
Today, by the might of my sword and the loyalty of the friends my sword had made for me, black man and white, red man and green rubbed shoulders in peace and good-fellowship.
I looked at Dejah Thoris, smiling, and as I drew her close to me I whispered: "Why not?" Indeed, why not?
The sky was gorgeous with gaily trimmed fliers.
Women and children and mighty warriors wept in gratitude for the fate that had restored their beloved Tardos Mors and the divine princess whom the whole nation idolized.
When the reading had ceased Tardos Mors arose. "Most righteous judges," he exclaimed, "you have heard recited all that is known of John Carter, Prince of Helium-the good with the bad.
What is your judgment?" Then Tars Tarkas came slowly to his feet, unfolding all his mighty, towering height until he loomed, a green-bronze statue, far above us all.
Personal Merit [The Old Man and the Young Man had been conversing.
The Old Man had asserted that the human being is merely a machine, and nothing more. The Young Man objected, and asked him to go into particulars and furnish his reasons for his position.] Old Man.
What are the materials of which a steam-engine is made? Young Man.
Iron, steel, brass, white-metal, and so on. O.M.
Where are these found? Y.M.
In a pure state? Y.M.
Are the metals suddenly deposited in the ores? Y.M.
No-it is the patient work of countless ages. O.M.
You could make the engine out of the rocks themselves? Y.M.
Yes, a brittle one and not valuable. O.M.
You would not require much, of such an engine as that? Y.M.
To make a fine and capable engine, how would you proceed? Y.M.
Drive tunnels and shafts into the hills; blast out the iron ore; crush it, smelt it, reduce it to pig-iron; put some of it through the Bessemer process and make steel of it.
Mine and treat and combine several metals of which brass is made. O.M.
Out of the perfected result, build the fine engine. O.M.
You would require much of this one? Y.M.
It could drive lathes, drills, planers, punches, polishers, in a word all the cunning machines of a great factory? Y.M.
What could the stone engine do? Y.M.
Drive a sewing-machine, possibly-nothing more, perhaps. O.M.
Men would admire the other engine and rapturously praise it? Y.M.
But not the stone one? Y.M.
The merits of the metal machine would be far above those of the stone one? Y.M.
Personal merits? Y.M. _Personal_ merits?
How do you mean? O.M.
It would be personally entitled to the credit of its own performance? Y.M.
Because its performance is not personal.
It is the result of the law of construction.
It is not a _merit_ that it does the things which it is set to do-it can't _help_ doing them. O.M.
And it is not a personal demerit in the stone machine that it does so little? Y.M.
It does no more and no less than the law of its make permits and compels it to do.
There is nothing _personal_ about it; it cannot choose.
Yes-but do not be offended; I am meaning no offense.
What makes the grand difference between the stone engine and the steel one?
Shall we call it training, education?
Shall we call the stone engine a savage and the steel one a civilized man?
The original rock contained the stuff of which the steel one was built-but along with a lot of sulphur and stone and other obstructing inborn heredities, brought down from the old geologic ages-prejudices, let us call them.
Prejudices which nothing within the rock itself had either _power_ to remove or any _desire_ to remove.
Will you take note of that phrase? Y.M.
I have written it down; "Prejudices which nothing within the rock itself had either power to remove or any desire to remove.
Prejudices must be removed by _outside influences_ or not at all. Put that down. Y.M.
Very well; "Must be removed by outside influences or not at all." Go on. O.M.
The iron's prejudice against ridding itself of the cumbering rock. To make it more exact, the iron's absolute _indifference_ as to whether the rock be removed or not.
Then comes the _outside influence_ and grinds the rock to powder and sets the ore free.
The _iron_ in the ore is still captive.
An _outside influence_ smelts it free of the clogging ore. The iron is emancipated iron, now, but indifferent to further progress.
An _outside influence_ beguiles it into the Bessemer furnace and refines it into steel of the first quality.
It is educated, now-its training is complete.
And it has reached its limit.
By no possible process can it be educated into _gold_.
Will you set that down? Y.M.
Everything has its limit-iron ore cannot be educated into gold." O.M.
There are gold men, and tin men, and copper men, and leaden men, and steel men, and so on-and each has the limitations of his nature, his heredities, his training, and his environment.
You have arrived at man, now? O.M.
Man the machine-man the impersonal engine.
Whatsoever a man is, is due to his _make_, and to the _influences_ brought to bear upon it by his heredities, his habitat, his associations.
He is moved, directed, _commanded_, by _exterior_ influences-_solely_.
He _originates_ nothing, not even a thought. Y.M.
Where did I get my opinion that this which you are talking is all foolishness? O.M.
It is a quite natural opinion-indeed an inevitable opinion-but _you _did not create the materials out of which it is formed.
That was done _automatically_-by your mental machinery, in strict accordance with the law of that machinery's construction.
And you not only did not make that machinery yourself, but you have _not even any command over it_. Y.M.
You think I could have formed no opinion but that one? O.M.
No. And _you did not form that one_; your machinery did it for you-automatically and instantly, without reflection or the need of it. Y.M.
Suppose you try? Y.M. (_After a quarter of an hour_.) I have reflected. O.M.
You mean you have tried to change your opinion-as an experiment? Y.M.
No. It remains the same; it is impossible to change it. O.M.
I am sorry, but you see, yourself, that your mind is merely a machine, nothing more.
You have no command over it, it has no command over itself-it is worked _solely from the outside_.
That is the law of its make; it is the law of all machines. Y.M.
Can't I _ever_ change one of these automatic opinions? O.M.
No. You can't yourself, but _exterior influences_ can do it. Y.M.
And exterior ones _only_? O.M.
That position is untenable-I may say ludicrously untenable. O.M.
What makes you think so? Y.M.
I don't merely think it, I know it.
Not a shred of it. _It grew out of this talk with me_.
But for that it would not have occurred to you.
No man ever originates anything.
All his thoughts, all his impulses, come _from the outside_. Y.M.
The _first_ man had original thoughts, anyway; there was nobody to draw from. O.M.
Adam's thoughts came to him from the outside. _You_ have a fear of death.
You did not invent that-you got it from outside, from talking and teaching.
Adam had no fear of death-none in the world. Y.M.
When he was created? Y.M.
When he was threatened with it. O.M.
Then it came from _outside_.
Adam is quite big enough; let us not try to make a god of him. _None but gods have ever had a thought which did not come from the outside_.
Adam probably had a good head, but it was of no sort of use to him until it was filled up _from the outside_. He was not able to invent the triflingest little thing with it.
He had not a shadow of a notion of the difference between good and evil-he had to get the idea _from the outside_.
Neither he nor Eve was able to originate the idea that it was immodest to go naked; the knowledge came in with the apple _from the outside_.
A man's brain is so constructed that _it can originate nothing whatsoever_.
It can only use material obtained _outside_.
It is merely a machine; and it works automatically, not by will-power. _It has no command over itself, its owner has no command over it_. Y.M.
Well, never mind Adam: but certainly Shakespeare's creations- O.M.
No, you mean Shakespeare's _imitations_.
He correctly observed, and he marvelously painted.
He exactly portrayed people whom _God_ had created; but he created none himself. Let us spare him the slander of charging him with trying.
Shakespeare could not create. _He was a machine, and machines do not create_. Y.M.
Where _was_ his excellence, then? O.M.
He was not a sewing-machine, like you and me; he was a Gobelin loom.
In Turkey he would have produced something-something up to the highest limit of Turkish influences, associations, and training.
In France he would have produced something better-something up to the highest limit of the French influences and training.
In England he rose to the highest limit attainable through the _outside helps afforded by that land's ideals, influences, and training_.
You and I are but sewing-machines.
We must turn out what we can; we must do our endeavor and care nothing at all when the unthinking reproach us for not turning out Gobelins. Y.M.
And so we are mere machines!
And machines may not boast, nor feel proud of their performance, nor claim personal merit for it, nor applause and praise.
It is an infamous doctrine. O.M.
It isn't a doctrine, it is merely a fact. Y.M.
I suppose, then, there is no more merit in being brave than in being a coward? O.M. _Personal_ merit?
No. A brave man does not _create_ his bravery. He is entitled to no personal credit for possessing it.
It is born to him.
A baby born with a billion dollars-where is the personal merit in that?
A baby born with nothing-where is the personal demerit in that? The one is fawned upon, admired, worshiped, by sycophants, the other is neglected and despised-where is the sense in it? Y.M.
Sometimes a timid man sets himself the task of conquering his cowardice and becoming brave-and succeeds.
What do you say to that? O.M.
That it shows the value of _training in right directions over training in wrong ones_.
Inestimably valuable is training, influence, education, in right directions-_training one's self-approbation to elevate its ideals_. Y.M.
But as to merit-the personal merit of the victorious coward's project and achievement? O.M.
In the world's view he is a worthier man than he was before, but _he_ didn't achieve the change-the merit of it is not his. Y.M.
His _make_, and the influences which wrought upon it from the outside. Y.M.
To start with, he was _not_ utterly and completely a coward, or the influences would have had nothing to work upon.
He was not afraid of a cow, though perhaps of a bull: not afraid of a woman, but afraid of a man.
There was something to build upon.
Did he make that seed himself, or was it born in him? It was no merit of _his_ that the seed was there. Y.M.
Well, anyway, the idea of _cultivating_ it, the resolution to cultivate it, was meritorious, and he originated that. O.M.
He did nothing of the kind.
It came whence _all_ impulses, good or bad, come-from _outside_.
He _could not originate the idea_-it had to come to him from the _outside_.
And so, when he heard bravery extolled and cowardice derided, it woke him up.
Perhaps his sweetheart turned up her nose and said, "I am told that you are a coward!
It was not _he_ that turned over the new leaf-she did it for him. _He_ must not strut around in the merit of it -it is not his. Y.M.
But, anyway, he reared the plant after she watered the seed. O.M.
No. _Outside influences_ reared it.
At the command-and trembling-he marched out into the field-with other soldiers and in the daytime, not alone and in the dark.
He had the _influence of example_, he drew courage from his comrades' courage; he was afraid, and wanted to run, but he did not dare; he was _afraid_ to run, with all those soldiers looking on.
He was progressing, you see-the moral fear of shame had risen superior to the physical fear of harm.
The Victoria Cross breeds more heroes than- Y.M.
Hang it, where is the sense in his becoming brave if he is to get no credit for it? O.M.
Your question will answer itself presently.
It involves an important detail of man's make which we have not yet touched upon. Y.M.
What detail is that? O.M.
The impulse which moves a person to do things-the only impulse that ever moves a person to do a thing. Y.M.
Is there but one? O.M.
There is only one. Y.M.
Well, certainly that is a strange enough doctrine.
What is the sole impulse that ever moves a person to do a thing? O.M.
The impulse to _content his own spirit_-the _necessity_ of contenting his own spirit and _winning its approval_. Y.M.
Oh, come, that won't do! O.M.
Because it puts him in the attitude of always looking out for his own comfort and advantage; whereas an unselfish man often does a thing solely for another person's good when it is a positive disadvantage to himself. O.M.
The act must do _him_ good, _first_; otherwise he will not do it.
He may _think_ he is doing it solely for the other person's sake, but it is not so; he is contenting his own spirit first-the other's person's benefit has to always take _second_ place. Y.M.
Please answer me that. O.M.
The doing good to another person where no shadow nor suggestion of benefit to one's self can result from it. II Man's Sole Impulse-the Securing of His Own Approval Old Man.
There have been instances of it-you think? Young Man. _Instances_?
You have not jumped to conclusions?
You have examined them-critically? Y.M.
They don't need it: the acts themselves reveal the golden impulse back of them. O.M.
Take the case in the book here.
The man lives three miles up-town.
It is bitter cold, snowing hard, midnight. He is about to enter the horse-car when a gray and ragged old woman, a touching picture of misery, puts out her lean hand and begs for rescue from hunger and death.
The man finds that he has a quarter in his pocket, but he does not hesitate: he gives it her and trudges home through the storm.
There-it is noble, it is beautiful; its grace is marred by no fleck or blemish or suggestion of self-interest. O.M.
What makes you think that? Y.M.
Pray what else could I think?
Do you imagine that there is some other way of looking at it? O.M.
Can you put yourself in the man's place and tell me what he felt and what he thought? Y.M.
The sight of that suffering old face pierced his generous heart with a sharp pain.
He could not bear it.
He could endure the three-mile walk in the storm, but he could not endure the tortures his conscience would suffer if he turned his back and left that poor old creature to perish.
He would not have been able to sleep, for thinking of it. O.M.
What was his state of mind on his way home? Y.M.
It was a state of joy which only the self-sacrificer knows.
His heart sang, he was unconscious of the storm. O.M.
One cannot doubt it. O.M.
Now let us add up the details and see how much he got for his twenty-five cents.
Let us try to find out the _real_ why of his making the investment.
In the first place _he_ couldn't bear the pain which the old suffering face gave him.
So he was thinking of _his_ pain-this good man.
He must buy a salve for it.
If he did not succor the old woman _his_ conscience would torture him all the way home. Thinking of _his_ pain again.
He must buy relief for that.
If he didn't relieve the old woman _he_ would not get any sleep.
He must buy some sleep-still thinking of _himself_, you see.
Thus, to sum up, he bought himself free of a sharp pain in his heart, he bought himself free of the tortures of a waiting conscience, he bought a whole night's sleep-all for twenty-five cents!
It should make Wall Street ashamed of itself.
On his way home his heart was joyful, and it sang-profit on top of profit!
The impulse which moved the man to succor the old woman was-_first_-to _content his own spirit_; secondly to relieve _her_ sufferings.
Is it your opinion that men's acts proceed from one central and unchanging and inalterable impulse, or from a variety of impulses? Y.M.
From a variety, of course-some high and fine and noble, others not.
What is your opinion? O.M.
Then there is but _one_ law, one source. Y.M.
That both the noblest impulses and the basest proceed from that one source? O.M.
Will you put that law into words? O.M.
This is the law, keep it in your mind. _From his cradle to his grave a man never does a single thing which has any_ FIRST AND FOREMOST _object_ _but one_-_to secure peace of mind, spiritual comfort_, _for_ HIMSELF. Y.M.
He never does anything for any one else's comfort, spiritual or physical? O.M.
No. _except on those distinct terms_-that it shall _first_ secure _his own_ spiritual comfort.
Otherwise he will not do it. Y.M.
It will be easy to expose the falsity of that proposition. O.M.
Take that noble passion, love of country, patriotism.
A man who loves peace and dreads pain, leaves his pleasant home and his weeping family and marches out to manfully expose himself to hunger, cold, wounds, and death.
Is that seeking spiritual comfort? O.M.
He loves peace and dreads pain? Y.M.
Then perhaps there is something that he loves _more_ than he loves peace-_the approval of his neighbors and the public_.
And perhaps there is something which he dreads more than he dreads pain-the _disapproval_ of his neighbors and the public.
If he is sensitive to shame he will go to the field-not because his spirit will be _entirely_ comfortable there, but because it will be more comfortable there than it would be if he remained at home.
Do you really believe that mere public opinion could force a timid and peaceful man to- O.M.
Yes-public opinion can force some men to do _anything_. Y.M. _Anything_? O.M.
Can it force a right-principled man to do a wrong thing? O.M.
Can it force a kind man to do a cruel thing? O.M.
Alexander Hamilton was a conspicuously high-principled man.
He regarded dueling as wrong, and as opposed to the teachings of religion-but in deference to _public opinion_ he fought a duel.
The teachings of religion, his devotion to his family, his kindness of heart, his high principles, all went for nothing when they stood in the way of his spiritual comfort.
A man will do _anything_, no matter what it is, _to secure his spiritual comfort_; and he can neither be forced nor persuaded to any act which has not that goal for its object.
Hamilton's act was compelled by the inborn necessity of contenting his own spirit; in this it was like all the other acts of his life, and like all the acts of all men's lives.
Do you see where the kernel of the matter lies?
A man cannot be comfortable without _his own_ approval.
He will secure the largest share possible of that, at all costs, all sacrifices. Y.M.
A minute ago you said Hamilton fought that duel to get _public_ approval. O.M.
Some noble souls have refused to fight duels, and have manfully braved the public contempt. O.M.
They acted _according to their make_.
They valued their principles and the approval of their families _above_ the public approval.
They took the thing they valued _most_ and let the rest go.
They took what would give them the _largest_ share of _personal contentment and approval_-a man _always_ does.
Public opinion cannot force that kind of men to go to the wars.
When they go it is for other reasons.
There are no others. Y.M.
When a man sacrifices his life to save a little child from a burning building, what do you call that? O.M.
When he does it, it is the law of _his_ make. _He_ can't bear to see the child in that peril (a man of a different make _could_), and so he tries to save the child, and loses his life.
But he has got what he was after-_his own approval_. Y.M.
What do you call Love, Hate, Charity, Revenge, Humanity, Magnanimity, Forgiveness? O.M.
Different results of the one Master Impulse: the necessity of securing one's self approval.
They wear diverse clothes and are subject to diverse moods, but in whatsoever ways they masquerade they are the _same person_ all the time.
To change the figure, the _compulsion_ that moves a man-and there is but the one-is the necessity of securing the contentment of his own spirit.
When it stops, the man is dead. Y.M.
Why, love is that impulse, that law, in its most uncompromising form.
It will squander life and everything else on its object.
Not _primarily_ for the object's sake, but for _its own_.
When its object is happy _it_ is happy-and that is what it is unconsciously after. Y.M.
You do not even except the lofty and gracious passion of mother-love? O.M.
No, _it _is the absolute slave of that law.
The mother will go naked to clothe her child; she will starve that it may have food; suffer torture to save it from pain; die that it may live.
She takes a living _pleasure_ in making these sacrifices. _She does it for that reward_-that self-approval, that contentment, that peace, that comfort. _She would do it for your child_ IF SHE COULD GET THE SAME PAY. Y.M.
This is an infernal philosophy of yours. O.M.
It isn't a philosophy, it is a fact. Y.M.
Of course you must admit that there are some acts which- O.M.
No. There is _no_ act, large or small, fine or mean, which springs from any motive but the one-the necessity of appeasing and contenting one's own spirit. Y.M.
I honor them, I uncover my head to them-from habit and training; and _they_ could not know comfort or happiness or self-approval if they did not work and spend for the unfortunate.
It makes _them_ happy to see others happy; and so with money and labor they buy what they are after-_happiness, self-approval_.
Why don't miners do the same thing? Because they can get a thousandfold more happiness by _not_ doing it. There is no other reason.
They follow the law of their make. Y.M.
What do you say of duty for duty's sake? O.M.
That _it does not exist_.
Duties are not performed for duty's _sake_, but because their _neglect_ would make the man _uncomfortable_. A man performs but _one_ duty-the duty of contenting his spirit, the duty of making himself agreeable to himself.
If he can most satisfyingly perform this sole and only duty by _helping_ his neighbor, he will do it; if he can most satisfyingly perform it by _swindling_ his neighbor, he will do it.
But he always looks out for Number One-_first_; the effects upon others are a _secondary_ matter.
Men pretend to self-sacrifices, but this is a thing which, in the ordinary value of the phrase, _does not exist and has not existed_.
Apparently, then, all men, both good and bad ones, devote their lives to contenting their consciences. O.M.
That is a good enough name for it: Conscience-that independent Sovereign, that insolent absolute Monarch inside of a man who is the man's Master.
There are all kinds of consciences, because there are all kinds of men.
You satisfy an assassin's conscience in one way, a philanthropist's in another, a miser's in another, a burglar's in still another.
As a _guide_ or _incentive_ to any authoritatively prescribed line of morals or conduct (leaving _training_ out of the account), a man's conscience is totally valueless.
I know a kind-hearted Kentuckian whose self-approval was lacking-whose conscience was troubling him, to phrase it with exactness-_because he had neglected to kill a certain man_-a man whom he had never seen.
The stranger had killed this man's friend in a fight, this man's Kentucky training made it a duty to kill the stranger for it.
He neglected his duty-kept dodging it, shirking it, putting it off, and his unrelenting conscience kept persecuting him for this conduct.
At last, to get ease of mind, comfort, self-approval, he hunted up the stranger and took his life.
But we are so made that we will pay _anything_ for that contentment-even another man's life. Y.M.
You spoke a moment ago of _trained_ consciences.
You mean that we are not _born_ with consciences competent to guide us aright? O.M.
If we were, children and savages would know right from wrong, and not have to be taught it. Y.M.
But consciences can be _trained_? O.M.
Of course by parents, teachers, the pulpit, and books. O.M.
Yes-they do their share; they do what they can. Y.M.
And the rest is done by- O.M.
Oh, a million unnoticed influences-for good or bad: influences which work without rest during every waking moment of a man's life, from cradle to grave. Y.M.
You have tabulated these? O.M.
Will you read me the result? O.M.
It would take an hour. Y.M.
A conscience can be trained to shun evil and prefer good? O.M.
But will it for spirit-contenting reasons only? O.M.
It _can't_ be trained to do a thing for any _other_ reason.
The thing is impossible. Y.M.
There _must_ be a genuinely and utterly self-sacrificing act recorded in human history somewhere. O.M.
You have many years before you.
It does seem to me that when a man sees a fellow-being struggling in the water and jumps in at the risk of his life to save him- O.M.
State if there is an _audience_ present; or if they are _alone_. Y.M.
What have these things to do with the splendid act? O.M.
Shall we suppose, as a beginning, that the two are alone, in a solitary place, at midnight? Y.M.
And that the fellow-being is the man's daughter? Y.M.
Well, n-no-make it someone else. O.M.
A filthy, drunken ruffian, then? Y.M.
I suppose that if there was no audience to observe the act, the man wouldn't perform it. O.M.
But there is here and there a man who _would_.
Because they couldn't _bear_ to see a fellow-being struggling in the water and not jump in and help.
It would give _them_ pain.
They would save the fellow-being on that account. _They wouldn't do it otherwise_.
They strictly obey the law which I have been insisting upon.
You must remember and always distinguish the people who _can't bear_ things from people who _can_.
It will throw light upon a number of apparently "self-sacrificing" cases. Y.M.
Oh, dear, it's all so disgusting. O.M.
Come-take the good boy who does things he doesn't want to do, in order to gratify his mother. O.M.
He does seven-tenths of the act because it gratifies _him_ to gratify his mother.
Throw the bulk of advantage the other way and the good boy would not do the act.
He _must_ obey the iron law.
None can escape it. Y.M.
Well, take the case of a bad boy who- O.M.
You needn't mention it, it is a waste of time.
It is no matter about the bad boy's act.
Whatever it was, he had a spirit-contenting reason for it.
Otherwise you have been misinformed, and he didn't do it. Y.M.
A while ago you said that man's conscience is not a born judge of morals and conduct, but has to be taught and trained.
Now I think a conscience can get drowsy and lazy, but I don't think it can go wrong; if you wake it up- _A Little Story_ O.M.
I will tell you a little story: Once upon a time an Infidel was guest in the house of a Christian widow whose little boy was ill and near to death.
But the dying boy, in his last moments, reproached him and said: "_I believed, and was happy in it; you have taken my belief away, and my comfort.
How could you do this cruel thing?
Now he is dead,-and lost; and I am miserable.
Our faith came down to us through centuries of believing ancestors; what right had you, or any one, to disturb it?
Where was your honor, where was your shame_?" Y.M.
He was a miscreant, and deserved death! O.M.
He thought so himself, and said so. Y.M.
Ah-you see, _his conscience was awakened_! O.M.
It _pained_ him to see the mother suffer.
He was sorry he had done a thing which brought _him_ pain.
Call it what you please, it is to me a case of _awakened conscience_.
That awakened conscience could never get itself into that species of trouble again.
A cure like that is a _permanent_ cure. O.M.
Pardon-I had not finished the story.
We are creatures of _outside influences_-we originate _nothing_ within.
Whenever we take a new line of thought and drift into a new line of belief and action, the impulse is _always_ suggested from the _outside_.
Remorse so preyed upon the Infidel that it dissolved his harshness toward the boy's religion and made him come to regard it with tolerance, next with kindness, for the boy's sake and the mother's.
Finally he found himself examining it. From that moment his progress in his new trend was steady and rapid.
He became a believing Christian.
And now his remorse for having robbed the dying boy of his faith and his salvation was bitterer than ever.
It gave him no rest, no peace.
He _must_ have rest and peace-it is the law of nature.
There seemed but one way to get it; he must devote himself to saving imperiled souls.
He landed in a pagan country ill and helpless.
A native widow took him into her humble home and nursed him back to convalescence.
Then her young boy was taken hopelessly ill, and the grateful missionary helped her tend him.
Here was his first opportunity to repair a part of the wrong done to the other boy by doing a precious service for this one by undermining his foolish faith in his false gods.
But the dying boy in his last moments reproached him and said: "_I believed, and was happy in it; you have taken my belief away, and my comfort.
Now he is dead-and lost; and I am miserable.
Where was your honor, where was your shame_?" The missionary's anguish of remorse and sense of treachery were as bitter and persecuting and unappeasable, now, as they had been in the former case.
What is your comment? Y.M.
The man's conscience is a fool!
It didn't know right from wrong. O.M.
I am not sorry to hear you say that.
If you grant that _one_ man's conscience doesn't know right from wrong, it is an admission that there are others like it.
This single admission pulls down the whole doctrine of infallibility of judgment in consciences.
Meantime there is one thing which I ask you to notice. Y.M.
That in both cases the man's _act_ gave him no spiritual discomfort, and that he was quite satisfied with it and got pleasure out of it.
But afterward when it resulted in _pain_ to _him_, he was sorry.
Sorry it had inflicted pain upon the others, _but for no reason under the sun except that their pain gave him pain_.
Our consciences take _no_ notice of pain inflicted upon others until it reaches a point where it gives pain to _us_.
In _all_ cases without exception we are absolutely indifferent to another person's pain until his sufferings make us uncomfortable.
Many an infidel would not have been troubled by that Christian mother's distress.
Don't you believe that? Y.M.
You might almost say it of the _average_ infidel, I think. O.M.
And many a missionary, sternly fortified by his sense of duty, would not have been troubled by the pagan mother's distress-Jesuit missionaries in Canada in the early French times, for instance; see episodes quoted by Parkman. Y.M.
Where have we arrived? O.M.
That we (mankind) have ticketed ourselves with a number of qualities to which we have given misleading names.
Love, Hate, Charity, Compassion, Avarice, Benevolence, and so on.
I mean we attach misleading _meanings_ to the names.
They are all forms of self-contentment, self-gratification, but the names so disguise them that they distract our attention from the fact.
Also we have smuggled a word into the dictionary which ought not to be there at all-Self-Sacrifice.
It describes a thing which does not exist.
But worst of all, we ignore and never mention the Sole Impulse which dictates and compels a man's every act: the imperious necessity of securing his own approval, in every emergency and at all costs.
To it we owe all that we are.
It is our breath, our heart, our blood.
It is our only spur, our whip, our goad, our only impelling power; we have no other.
Without it we should be mere inert images, corpses; no one would do anything, there would be no progress, the world would stand still. We ought to stand reverently uncovered when the name of that stupendous power is uttered. Y.M.
I am not convinced. O.M.
You will be when you think. III Instances in Point Old Man.
Have you given thought to the Gospel of Self-Approval since we talked? Young Man.
It was I that moved you to it.
That is to say an _outside influence_ moved you to it-not one that originated in your head.
Will you try to keep that in mind and not forget it? Y.M.
Reserve your remark till we get to that part of our discussion-tomorrow or next day, say.
Now, then, have you been considering the proposition that no act is ever born of any but a self-contenting impulse-(primarily).
What have you found? Y.M.
I have not been very fortunate.
I have examined many fine and apparently self-sacrificing deeds in romances and biographies, but- O.M.
Under searching analysis the ostensible self-sacrifice disappeared?
But here in this novel is one which seems to promise.
In the Adirondack woods is a wage-earner and lay preacher in the lumber-camps who is of noble character and deeply religious.
An earnest and practical laborer in the New York slums comes up there on vacation-he is leader of a section of the University Settlement.
Holme, the lumberman, is fired with a desire to throw away his excellent worldly prospects and go down and save souls on the East Side.
He counts it happiness to make this sacrifice for the glory of God and for the cause of Christ.
He resigns his place, makes the sacrifice cheerfully, and goes to the East Side and preaches Christ and Him crucified every day and every night to little groups of half-civilized foreign paupers who scoff at him.
But he rejoices in the scoffings, since he is suffering them in the great cause of Christ.
You have so filled my mind with suspicions that I was constantly expecting to find a hidden questionable impulse back of all this, but I am thankful to say I have failed.
This man saw his duty, and for _duty's sake_ he sacrificed self and assumed the burden it imposed. O.M.
Is that as far as you have read? Y.M.
Let us read further, presently.
Meantime, in sacrificing himself-_not_ for the glory of God, _primarily_, as _he_ imagined, but _first_ to content that exacting and inflexible master within him-_did he sacrifice anybody else_? Y.M.
He relinquished a lucrative post and got mere food and lodging in place of it.
In what way and to what extend did his self-sacrifice affect _them_? Y.M.
He was the support of a superannuated father.
He had a young sister with a remarkable voice-he was giving her a musical education, so that her longing to be self-supporting might be gratified.
He was furnishing the money to put a young brother through a polytechnic school and satisfy his desire to become a civil engineer. O.M.
The old father's comforts were now curtailed? Y.M.
The sister's music-lessens had to stop? Y.M.
The young brother's education-well, an extinguishing blight fell upon that happy dream, and he had to go to sawing wood to support the old father, or something like that? Y.M.
It is about what happened.
What a handsome job of self-sacrificing he did do!
It seems to me that he sacrificed everybody _except_ himself.
And help Christ's cause. O.M.
Not firstly. _He_ thought it was firstly. Y.M.
Very well, have it so, if you will.
But it could be that he argued that if he saved a hundred souls in New York- O.M.
The sacrifice of the _family_ would be justified by that great profit upon the-the-what shall we call it? Y.M.
Not a solitary soul-capture was sure.
He played for a possible thirty-three-hundred-per-cent profit.
It was _gambling_-with his family for "chips.
However let us see how the game came out.
Maybe we can get on the track of the secret original impulse, the _real_ impulse, that moved him to so nobly self-sacrifice his family in the Savior's cause under the superstition that he was sacrificing himself.
I will read a chapter or so....
It was bound to expose itself sooner or later.
He preached to the East-Side rabble a season, then went back to his old dull, obscure life in the lumber-camps "_hurt to the heart, his pride humbled_.
Were not his efforts acceptable to the Savior, for Whom alone they were made?
Dear me, that detail is _lost sight of_, is not even referred to, the fact that it started out as a motive is entirely forgotten!
Then what is the trouble?
The authoress quite innocently and unconsciously gives the whole business away.
The trouble was this: this man merely _preached_ to the poor; that is not the University Settlement's way; it deals in larger and better things than that, and it did not enthuse over that crude Salvation-Army eloquence.
It was courteous to Holme-but cool.
It did not pet him, did not take him to its bosom. "_Perished were all his dreams of distinction, the praise and grateful approval_-" Of whom?
The Savior? No; the Savior is not mentioned.
Why did he want that?
Because the Master inside of him wanted it, and would not be content without it.
As I have warned you before, _no_ act springs from any but the one law, the one motive.
But I pray you, do not accept this law upon my say-so; but diligently examine for yourself.
Whenever you read of a self-sacrificing act or hear of one, or of a duty done for _duty's sake_, take it to pieces and look for the _real_ motive.
It is always there. Y.M.
I do it every day.
I cannot help it, now that I have gotten started upon the degrading and exasperating quest.
For it is hatefully interesting!-in fact, fascinating is the word.
As soon as I come across a golden deed in a book I have to stop and take it apart and examine it, I cannot help myself. O.M.
Have you ever found one that defeated the rule? Y.M.
But take the case of servant-tipping in Europe.
You pay the _hotel_ for service; you owe the servants _nothing_, yet you pay them besides.
Doesn't that defeat it? O.M.
You are not _obliged_ to do it, therefore its source is compassion for their ill-paid condition, and- O.M.
Has that custom ever vexed you, annoyed you, irritated you? Y.M.
Still you succumbed to it? Y.M.
Well, custom is law, in a way, and laws must be submitted to-everybody recognizes it as a _duty_. O.M.
Then you pay for the irritating tax for _duty's_ sake? Y.M.
I suppose it amounts to that. O.M.
Then the impulse which moves you to submit to the tax is not _all_ compassion, charity, benevolence? Y.M.
Is _any_ of it? Y.M.
I-perhaps I was too hasty in locating its source. O.M.
In case you ignored the custom would you get prompt and effective service from the servants? Y.M.
Why, you wouldn't get any at all, to speak of. O.M.
Couldn't _that_ work as an impulse to move you to pay the tax? Y.M.
I am not denying it. O.M.
Apparently, then, it is a case of for-duty's-sake with a little self-interest added? Y.M.
Yes, it has the look of it.
I think it will be difficult for you to find any thought of self in that impulse. O.M.
I wonder why you should think so.
When you find service charged in the _hotel_ bill does it annoy you? Y.M.
Do you ever complain of the amount of it? Y.M.
No, it would not occur to me. O.M.
The _expense_, then, is not the annoying detail.
It is a fixed charge, and you pay it cheerfully, you pay it without a murmur.
When you came to pay the servants, how would you like it if each of the men and maids had a fixed charge? Y.M.
Even if the fixed tax were a shade _more_ than you had been in the habit of paying in the form of tips? Y.M.
As I understand it, it isn't really compassion nor yet duty that moves you to pay the tax, and it isn't the _amount_ of the tax that annoys you.
Well, the trouble is, you never know _what_ to pay, the tax varies so, all over Europe. O.M.
So you have to guess? Y.M.
There is no other way.
And all about a debt which you don't owe and don't have to pay unless you want to!
What is the purpose of the guessing? Y.M.
To guess out what is right to give them, and not be unfair to any of them. O.M.
I think, myself, that if there is any ungracious motive back of it it will be hard to find. O.M.
How do you know when you have not paid a servant fairly? Y.M.
Why, he is silent; does not thank you.
Sometimes he gives you a look that makes you ashamed.
You are too proud to rectify your mistake there, with people looking, but afterward you keep on wishing and wishing you _had_ done it.
My, the shame and the pain of it!
Sometimes you see, by the signs, that you have it _just right_, and you go away mightily satisfied.
Sometimes the man is so effusively thankful that you know you have given him a good deal _more_ than was necessary. O.M. _Necessary_?
How do you feel _then_? Y.M.
It is my belief that you have _not_ been concerning yourself in guessing out his just dues, but only in ciphering out what would _content_ him.
And I think you have a self-deluding reason for that. Y.M.
If you fell short of what he was expecting and wanting, you would get a look which would _shame you before folk_.
That would give you _pain_. _You_-for you are only working for yourself, not _him_.
If you gave him too much you would be _ashamed of yourself_ for it, and that would give _you_ pain-another case of thinking of _yourself_, protecting yourself, _saving yourself from discomfort_.
You never think of the servant once-except to guess out how to get _his approval_.
If you get that, you get your _own _approval, and that is the sole and only thing you are after.
The Master inside of you is then satisfied, contented, comfortable; there was _no other_ thing at stake, as a matter of _first_ interest, anywhere in the transaction. _Further Instances_ Y.M.
Well, to think of it; Self-Sacrifice for others, the grandest thing in man, ruled out! non-existent! O.M.
Are you accusing me of saying that? Y.M.
I haven't said it. Y.M.
What did you say, then? O.M.
That no man has ever sacrificed himself in the common meaning of that phrase-which is, self-sacrifice for another _alone_.
Men make daily sacrifices for others, but it is for their own sake _first_.
The act must content their own spirit _first_.
The other beneficiaries come second. Y.M.
And the same with duty for duty's sake? O.M.
No man performs a duty for mere duty's sake; the act must content his spirit _first_.
He must feel better for _doing_ the duty than he would for shirking it.
Take the case of the _Berkeley Castle_. O.M.
It was a noble duty, greatly performed.
Take it to pieces and examine it, if you like. Y.M.
A British troop-ship crowded with soldiers and their wives and children.
She struck a rock and began to sink.
There was room in the boats for the women and children only.
The colonel lined up his regiment on the deck and said "it is our duty to die, that they may be saved.
There was no murmur, no protest.
The boats carried away the women and children.
Can you view it as other than that? O.M.
It was something as fine as that, as exalted as that.
Could you have remained in those ranks and gone down to your death in that unflinching way? Y.M.
No, I could not. O.M.
Imagine yourself there, with that watery doom creeping higher and higher around you. Y.M.
I feel all the horror of it.
I could not have endured it, I could not have remained in my place.
There is no why about it: I know myself, and I know I couldn't _do_ it. O.M.
But it would be your _duty_ to do it. Y.M.
Yes, I know-but I couldn't. O.M.
It was more than thousand men, yet not one of them flinched.
Some of them must have been born with your temperament; if they could do that great duty for duty's _sake_, why not you?
Yes, I know that. O.M.
But you _train_ them, and put them through a campaign or two; then they would be soldiers; soldiers, with a soldier's pride, a soldier's self-respect, a soldier's ideals.
They would have to content a _soldier's_ spirit then, not a clerk's, not a mechanic's.
They could not content that spirit by shirking a soldier's duty, could they? Y.M.
Then they would do the duty not for the _duty's_ sake, but for their _own _sake-primarily.
The _duty_ was _just the same_, and just as imperative, when they were clerks, mechanics, raw recruits, but they wouldn't perform it for that.
As clerks and mechanics they had other ideals, another spirit to satisfy, and they satisfied it.
They _had_ to; it is the law. _Training _is potent.
Training toward higher and higher, and ever higher ideals is worth any man's thought and labor and diligence. Y.M.
Consider the man who stands by his duty and goes to the stake rather than be recreant to it. O.M.
It is his make and his training.
He has to content the spirit that is in him, though it cost him his life.
He could not perform that duty for duty's _sake_, for that would not content his spirit, and the contenting of his spirit must be looked to _first_.
It takes precedence of all other duties. Y.M.
Take the case of a clergyman of stainless private morals who votes for a thief for public office, on his own party's ticket, and against an honest man on the other ticket. O.M.
He has to content his spirit.
He has no public morals; he has no private ones, where his party's prosperity is at stake.
He will always be true to his make and training. IV Training Young Man.
You keep using that word-training.
By it do you particularly mean- Old Man.
That is a part of it-but not a large part.
I mean _all _the outside influences.
There are a million of them.
From the cradle to the grave, during all his waking hours, the human being is under training.
In the very first rank of his trainers stands _association_.
It is his human environment which influences his mind and his feelings, furnishes him his ideals, and sets him on his road and keeps him in it.
If he leave[s] that road he will find himself shunned by the people whom he most loves and esteems, and whose approval he most values.
He is a chameleon; by the law of his nature he takes the color of his place of resort.
The influences about him create his preferences, his aversions, his politics, his tastes, his morals, his religion.
He creates none of these things for himself. He _thinks _he does, but that is because he has not examined into the matter.
You have seen Presbyterians? Y.M.
How did they happen to be Presbyterians and not Congregationalists?
You may answer your question yourself. O.M.
That list of sects is not a record of _studies_, searchings, seekings after light; it mainly (and sarcastically) indicates what _association _can do.
If you know a man's nationality you can come within a split hair of guessing the complexion of his religion: English-Protestant; American-ditto; Spaniard, Frenchman, Irishman, Italian, South American-Roman Catholic; Russian-Greek Catholic; Turk-Mohammedan; and so on.
And when you know the man's religious complexion, you know what sort of religious books he reads when he wants some more light, and what sort of books he avoids, lest by accident he get more light than he wants.
We are always hearing of people who are around _seeking after truth_.
I have never seen a (permanent) specimen. I think he had never lived.
But I have seen several entirely sincere people who _thought _they were (permanent) Seekers after Truth.
In any case, when he found the Truth _he sought no further; _but from that day forth, with his soldering-iron in one hand and his bludgeon in the other he tinkered its leaks and reasoned with objectors.
There have been innumerable Temporary Seekers of Truth-have you ever heard of a permanent one?
In the very nature of man such a person is impossible.
However, to drop back to the text-training: all training is one form or another of _outside influence, _and _association _is the largest part of it.
A man is never anything but what his outside influences have made him.
They train him downward or they train him upward-but they _train _him; they are at work upon him all the time. Y.M.
Then if he happen by the accidents of life to be evilly placed there is no help for him, according to your notions-he must train downward. O.M.
No help for this chameleon?
It is in his chameleonship that his greatest good fortune lies.
He has only to change his habitat-his _associations_.
But the impulse to do it must come from the _outside _-he cannot originate it himself, with that purpose in view.
Sometimes a very small and accidental thing can furnish him the initiatory impulse and start him on a new road, with a new idea.
The chance remark of a sweetheart, "I hear that you are a coward," may water a seed that shall sprout and bloom and flourish, and ended in producing a surprising fruitage-in the fields of war.
The history of man is full of such accidents.
The accident of a broken leg brought a profane and ribald soldier under religious influences and furnished him a new ideal.
From that accident sprang the Order of the Jesuits, and it has been shaking thrones, changing policies, and doing other tremendous work for two hundred years-and will go on.
Are you hinting at a scheme of procedure? O.M.
Not a new one-an old one.
Merely the laying of traps for people.
Traps baited with _initiatory impulses toward high ideals. _It is what the tract-distributor does.
It is what the missionary does.
It is what governments ought to do. Y.M.
In one way they do, in another they don't.
They separate the smallpox patients from the healthy people, but in dealing with crime they put the healthy into the pest-house along with the sick.
That is to say, they put the beginners in with the confirmed criminals.
This would be well if man were naturally inclined to good, but he isn't, and so _association _makes the beginners worse than they were when they went into captivity.
It is putting a very severe punishment upon the comparatively innocent at times.
They hang a man-which is a trifling punishment; this breaks the hearts of his family-which is a heavy one. They comfortably jail and feed a wife-beater, and leave his innocent wife and family to starve. Y.M.
Do you believe in the doctrine that man is equipped with an intuitive perception of good and evil? O.M.
But has man acquired it since? O.M.
No. I think he has no intuitions of any kind.
He gets _all _his ideas, all his impressions, from the outside.
I keep repeating this, in the hope that I may impress it upon you that you will be interested to observe and examine for yourself and see whether it is true or false. Y.M.
Where did you get your own aggravating notions? O.M.
I did not invent them.
They are gathered from a thousand unknown sources.
Don't you believe that God could make an inherently honest man? O.M.
Yes, I know He could.
I also know that He never did make one. Y.M.
A wiser observer than you has recorded the fact that "an honest man's the noblest work of God." O.M.
He didn't record a fact, he recorded a falsity.
It is windy, and sounds well, but it is not true.
God makes a man with honest and dishonest _possibilities _in him and stops there.
The man's _associations _develop the possibilities-the one set or the other.
The result is accordingly an honest man or a dishonest one. Y.M.
And the honest one is not entitled to- O.M.
No. How often must I tell you that? _He _is not the architect of his honesty. Y.M.
Now then, I will ask you where there is any sense in training people to lead virtuous lives.
What is gained by it? O.M.
The man himself gets large advantages out of it, and that is the main thing-to _him_.
He is not a peril to his neighbors, he is not a damage to them-and so _they _get an advantage out of his virtues.
That is the main thing to _them_.
It can make this life comparatively comfortable to the parties concerned; the _neglect _of this training can make this life a constant peril and distress to the parties concerned. Y.M.
You have said that training is everything; that training is the man _himself_, for it makes him what he is. O.M.
I said training and _another _thing.
Let that other thing pass, for the moment.
What were you going to say? Y.M.
We have an old servant.
She has been with us twenty-two years.
Her service used to be faultless, but now she has become very forgetful.
Now, then, when I was ready to dress, this morning, no clean clothes had been put out.
I lost my temper; I lose it easiest and quickest in the early morning.
I rang; and immediately began to warn myself not to show temper, and to be careful and speak gently.
I safe-guarded myself most carefully.
I even chose the very word I would use: "You've forgotten the clean clothes, Jane.
You say a man always does the thing which will best please his Interior Master.
Whence came the impulse to make careful preparation to save the girl the humiliation of a rebuke?
Did that come from the Master, who is always primarily concerned about _himself_? O.M.
There is no other source for any impulse. _Secondarily _you made preparation to save the girl, but _primarily _its object was to save yourself, by contenting the Master. Y.M.
Has any member of the family ever implored you to watch your temper and not fly out at the girl? Y.M.
Oh, more than that! O.M.
You would always do anything in your power to please her? Y.M.
It is a delight to me to do anything to please her! O.M.
Why? _You would do it for pay, solely _-for _profit_.
What profit would you expect and certainly receive from the investment? Y.M.
To please _her _is enough. O.M.
It appears, then, that your object, primarily, _wasn't _to save the girl a humiliation, but to _please your mother. _It also appears that to please your mother gives _you _a strong pleasure.
Is not that the profit which you get out of the investment?
Isn't that the _real _profits and _first _profit? Y.M.
In _all _transactions, the Interior Master looks to it that _you get the first profit. _Otherwise there is no transaction. Y.M.
Well, then, if I was so anxious to get that profit and so intent upon it, why did I throw it away by losing my temper? O.M.
In order to get _another _profit which suddenly superseded it in value. Y.M.
Ambushed behind your born temperament, and waiting for a chance. Your native warm temper suddenly jumped to the front, and _for the moment its influence _was more powerful than your mother's, and abolished it.
In that instance you were eager to flash out a hot rebuke and enjoy it.
You did enjoy it, didn't you? Y.M.
For-for a quarter of a second.
Very well, it is as I have said: the thing which will give you the _most _pleasure, the most satisfaction, in any moment or _fraction _of a moment, is the thing you will always do.
You must content the Master's _latest _whim, whatever it may be. Y.M.
But when the tears came into the old servant's eyes I could have cut my hand off for what I had done. O.M.
You had humiliated _yourself_, you see, you had given yourself _pain_.
Nothing is of _first _importance to a man except results which damage _him _or profit him-all the rest is _secondary_. Your Master was displeased with you, although you had obeyed him.
He required a prompt _repentance_; you obeyed again; you_ had _to-there is never any escape from his commands.
He is a hard master and fickle; he changes his mind in the fraction of a second, but you must be ready to obey, and you will obey, _always_.
If he requires repentance, you content him, you will always furnish it.
He must be nursed, petted, coddled, and kept contented, let the terms be what they may. Y.M.
Oh, what's the use of it?
Didn't I, and didn't my mother try to train me up to where I would no longer fly out at that girl? O.M.
Have you never managed to keep back a scolding? Y.M.
More times this year than last? Y.M.
Yes, a good many more. O.M.
More times last year than the year before? Y.M.
There is a large improvement, then, in the two years? Y.M.
Then your question is answered.
You see there _is _use in training.
You are doing well. Y.M.
Will my reform reach perfection? O.M.
Up to _your _limit. Y.M.
What do you mean by that? O.M.
You remember that you said that I said training was _everything_. I corrected you, and said "training and _another _thing.
That other thing is _temperament _-that is, the disposition you were born with. _You can't eradicate your disposition nor any rag of it _-you can only put a pressure on it and keep it down and quiet.
You have a warm temper? Y.M.
You have made valuable progress and can make more.
There _is _use in training.
Presently you will reach a new stage of development, then your progress will be easier; will proceed on a simpler basis, anyway. Y.M.
You will then labor for yourself directly and at _first hand, _not by the roundabout way through your mother.
It simplifies the matter, and it also strengthens the impulse. Y.M.
But I sha'n't ever reach the point where I will spare the girl for _her _sake _primarily_, not mine? O.M.
In heaven. Y.M. (_After a reflective pause) _Temperament.
Well, I see one must allow for temperament.
It is a large factor, sure enough.
My mother is thoughtful, and not hot-tempered.
When I was dressed I went to her room; she was not there; I called, she answered from the bathroom.
I heard the water running.
She answered, without temper, that Jane had forgotten her bath, and she was preparing it herself.
I say-has my mother an Interior Master?-and where was he? O.M.
There, and looking out for his own peace and pleasure and contentment.
It is quite likely that a part of your mother's forbearance came from training.
The _good _kind of training-whose best and highest function is to see to it that every time it confers a satisfaction upon its pupil a benefit shall fall at second hand upon others. Y.M.
If you were going to condense into an admonition your plan for the general betterment of the race's condition, how would you word it? _Admonition_ O.M.
Diligently train your ideals _upward _and _still upward _toward a summit where you will find your chiefest pleasure in conduct which, while contenting you, will be sure to confer benefits upon your neighbor and the community. Y.M.
Is that a new gospel? O.M.
It has been taught before? O.M.
For ten thousand years. Y.M.
All the great religions-all the great gospels. Y.M.
Then there is nothing new about it? O.M.
It is candidly stated, this time.
That has not been done before. Y.M.
Haven't I put _you first, _and your neighbor and the community afterward? Y.M.
Well, yes, that is a difference, it is true. O.M.
The difference between straight speaking and crooked; the difference between frankness and shuffling. Y.M.
If we grant, for the sake of argument, that your scheme and the other schemes aim at and produce the same result-_right living-_has yours an advantage over the others? O.M.
It has no concealments, no deceptions.
When a man leads a right and valuable life under it he is not deceived as to the _real _chief motive which impels him to it-in those other cases he is. Y.M.
Is it an advantage to live a lofty life for a mean reason?
In the other cases he lives the lofty life under the _impression _that he is living for a lofty reason.
Is not that an advantage? O.M.
But anyway, he is obliged to do a duke's part; he puts his hand in his pocket and does his benevolences on as big a scale as he can stand, and that benefits the community. O.M.
He could do that without being a duke. Y.M.
Don't you see where you are arriving? Y.M.
But isn't it best to leave him in ignorance, as long as he _thinks _he is doing good for others' sake? O.M.
It is the position of the other schemes.
They think humbug is good enough morals when the dividend on it is good deeds and handsome conduct. Y.M.
It is my opinion that under your scheme of a man's doing a good deed for his _own _sake first-off, instead of first for the _good deed's _sake, no man would ever do one. O.M.
Have you committed a benevolence lately? Y.M.
You were glad you had the money? Y.M.
I sold my horse. O.M.
You were glad you had the horse? Y.M.
Of course I was; for if I hadn't had the horse I should have been incapable, and my _mother _would have captured the chance to set old Sally up. O.M.
You were cordially glad you were not caught out and incapable? Y.M.
Oh, I just was! O.M.
I did the whole thing with my eyes open and recognizing and realizing that I was looking out for _my _share of the profits _first_.
Now then, I have confessed.
Nothing in the world could have made the impulse which moved me more powerful, more masterful, more thoroughly irresistible.
I played the limit! O.M.
That is what I fully believe. Y.M.
Doesn't it somehow seem to take from the dignity of the deed? O.M.
If there is dignity in falsity, it does.
What is left for the moralists to do? O.M.
Teach unreservedly what he already teaches with one side of his mouth and takes back with the other: Do right _for your own sake, _and be happy in knowing that your _neighbor _will certainly share in the benefits resulting. Y.M.
One's _every _act proceeds from _exterior influences_, you think? O.M.
If I conclude to rob a person, I am not the _originator _of the idea, but it comes in from the _outside_?
I see him handling money-for instance-and _that _moves me to the crime? O.M.
It is merely the _latest _outside influence of a procession of preparatory influences stretching back over a period of years.
No _single _outside influence can make a man do a thing which is at war with his training.
The most it can do is to start his mind on a new tract and open it to the reception of _new _influences-as in the case of Ignatius Loyola.
In time these influences can train him to a point where it will be consonant with his new character to yield to the _final _influence and do that thing.
I will put the case in a form which will make my theory clear to you, I think. Here are two ingots of virgin gold.
They shall represent a couple of characters which have been refined and perfected in the virtues by years of diligent right training.
Suppose you wanted to break down these strong and well-compacted characters-what influence would you bring to bear upon the ingots? Y.M.
Suppose I turn upon one of them a steam-jet during a long succession of hours.
Will there be a result? Y.M.
None that I know of. O.M.
A steam-jet cannot break down such a substance. O.M.
The steam is an _outside influence, _but it is ineffective because the gold _takes no interest in it. _The ingot remains as it was.
Suppose we add to the steam some quicksilver in a vaporized condition, and turn the jet upon the ingot, will there be an instantaneous result? Y.M.
Let us continue the application in a steady stream, and call each minute a year.
By the end of ten or twenty minutes-ten or twenty years-the little ingot is sodden with quicksilver, its virtues are gone, its character is degraded.
At last it is ready to yield to a temptation which it would have taken no notice of, ten or twenty years ago.
We will apply that temptation in the form of a pressure of my finger.
You note the result? Y.M.
Yes; the ingot has crumbled to sand.
It is not the _single _outside influence that does the work, but only the _last _one of a long and disintegrating accumulation of them.
I see, now, how my _single _impulse to rob the man is not the one that makes me do it, but only the _last _one of a preparatory series.
You might illustrate with a parable. _A Parable_ O.M.
There was once a pair of New England boys-twins.
They were alike in good dispositions, feckless morals, and personal appearance. They were the models of the Sunday-school.
At fifteen George had the opportunity to go as cabin-boy in a whale-ship, and sailed away for the Pacific.
Henry remained at home in the village.
At eighteen George was a sailor before the mast, and Henry was teacher of the advanced Bible class.
At twenty-two George, through fighting-habits and drinking-habits acquired at sea and in the sailor boarding-houses of the European and Oriental ports, was a common rough in Hong-Kong, and out of a job; and Henry was superintendent of the Sunday-school.
At twenty-six George was a wanderer, a tramp, and Henry was pastor of the village church.
Then George came home, and was Henry's guest.
The human being always looks down when he is examining another person's standard; he never find one that he has to examine by looking up. _The Man-Machine Again_ Young Man.
You really think man is a mere machine? Old Man.
And that his mind works automatically and is independent of his control-carries on thought on its own hook? O.M.
It is diligently at work, unceasingly at work, during every waking moment.
When it chooses to work, there is no way to keep it still for an instant.
The brightest man would not be able to supply it with subjects if he had to hunt them up.
If it needed the man's help it would wait for him to give it work when he wakes in the morning. Y.M.
No, it begins right away, before the man gets wide enough awake to give it a suggestion.
He may go to sleep saying, "The moment I wake I will think upon such and such a subject," but he will fail.
His mind will be too quick for him; by the time he has become nearly enough awake to be half conscious, he will find that it is already at work upon another subject.
Make the experiment and see. Y.M.
At any rate, he can make it stick to a subject if he wants to. O.M.
Not if it find another that suits it better.
As a rule it will listen to neither a dull speaker nor a bright one.
The dull speaker wearies it and sends it far away in idle dreams; the bright speaker throws out stimulating ideas which it goes chasing after and is at once unconscious of him and his talk.
You cannot keep your mind from wandering, if it wants to; it is master, not you. _After an Interval of Days_ O.M.
Now, dreams-but we will examine that later.
Meantime, did you try commanding your mind to wait for orders from you, and not do any thinking on its own hook? Y.M.
Yes, I commanded it to stand ready to take orders when I should wake in the morning. O.M.
No. It went to thinking of something of its own initiation, without waiting for me.
Also-as you suggested-at night I appointed a theme for it to begin on in the morning, and commanded it to begin on that one and no other. O.M.
How many times did you try the experiment? Y.M.
How many successes did you score? Y.M.
It is as I have said: the mind is independent of the man.
He has no control over it; it does as it pleases.
It will take up a subject in spite of him; it will stick to it in spite of him; it will throw it aside in spite of him.
It is entirely independent of him. Y.M.
Do you know chess? Y.M.
I learned it a week ago. O.M.
Did your mind go on playing the game all night that first night? Y.M.
It was eagerly, unsatisfiably interested; it rioted in the combinations; you implored it to drop the game and let you get some sleep? Y.M.
It wouldn't listen; it played right along.
It wore me out and I got up haggard and wretched in the morning. O.M.
At some time or other you have been captivated by a ridiculous rhyme-jingle? Y.M.
Indeed, yes! "I saw Esau kissing Kate, And she saw I saw Esau; I saw Esau, he saw Kate, And she saw-" And so on.
My mind went mad with joy over it.
It repeated it all day and all night for a week in spite of all I could do to stop it, and it seemed to me that I must surely go crazy. O.M.
And the new popular song? Y.M.
In the Swee-eet By and By"; etc. Yes, the new popular song with the taking melody sings through one's head day and night, asleep and awake, till one is a wreck.
There is no getting the mind to let it alone. O.M.
Yes, asleep as well as awake.
The mind is quite independent.
You have nothing to do with it.
It is so apart from you that it can conduct its affairs, sing its songs, play its chess, weave its complex and ingeniously constructed dreams, while you sleep.
It has no use for your help, no use for your guidance, and never uses either, whether you be asleep or awake.
You have imagined that you could originate a thought in your mind, and you have sincerely believed you could do it. Y.M.
Yes, I have had that idea. O.M.
Yet you can't originate a dream-thought for it to work out, and get it accepted? Y.M.
And you can't dictate its procedure after it has originated a dream-thought for itself? Y.M.
No. No one can do it.
Do you think the waking mind and the dream mind are the same machine? O.M.
There is argument for it.
We have wild and fantastic day-thoughts? Things that are dream-like? Y.M.
Yes-like Mr. Wells's man who invented a drug that made him invisible; and like the Arabian tales of the Thousand Nights. O.M.
And there are dreams that are rational, simple, consistent, and unfantastic? Y.M.
I have dreams that are like that.
Your dreaming mind originates the scheme, consistently and artistically develops it, and carries the little drama creditably through-all without help or suggestion from you? Y.M.
It is argument that it could do the like awake without help or suggestion from you-and I think it does.
It is argument that it is the same old mind in both cases, and never needs your help.
I think the mind is purely a machine, a thoroughly independent machine, an automatic machine.
Have you tried the other experiment which I suggested to you? Y.M.
The one which was to determine how much influence you have over your mind-if any. Y.M.
Yes, and got more or less entertainment out of it.
I did as you ordered: I placed two texts before my eyes-one a dull one and barren of interest, the other one full of interest, inflamed with it, white-hot with it.
I commanded my mind to busy itself solely with the dull one. O.M.
It busied itself with the other one. O.M.
Did you try hard to make it obey? Y.M.
Yes, I did my honest best. O.M.
What was the text which it refused to be interested in or think about? Y.M.
What was the other text? Y.M.
It is no matter about that. O.M.
But what was it? Y.M.
No. It was hers. O.M.
You really made an honest good test.
Did you make a second trial? Y.M.
I commanded my mind to interest itself in the morning paper's report of the pork-market, and at the same time I reminded it of an experience of mine of sixteen years ago.
It refused to consider the pork and gave its whole blazing interest to that ancient incident. O.M.
What was the incident? Y.M.
An armed desperado slapped my face in the presence of twenty spectators.
It makes me wild and murderous every time I think of it. O.M.
Good tests, both; very good tests.
Did you try my other suggestion? Y.M.
Is that the one? O.M.
I had slept well, and my mind was very lively, even gay and frisky.
Did my mind stop to mourn with that nude black sister of mine?
No-it was far away from that scene in an instant, and was busying itself with an ever-recurring and disagreeable dream of mine.
In this dream I always find myself, stripped to my shirt, cringing and dodging about in the midst of a great drawing-room throng of finely dressed ladies and gentlemen, and wondering how I got there.
A man's mind, left free, has no use for his help.
But there is one way whereby he can get its help when he desires it. Y.M.
What is that way? O.M.
When your mind is racing along from subject to subject and strikes an inspiring one, open your mouth and begin talking upon that matter-or-take your pen and use that.
It will interest your mind and concentrate it, and it will pursue the subject with satisfaction.
It will take full charge, and furnish the words itself. Y.M.
But don't I tell it what to say? O.M.
There are certainly occasions when you haven't time.
The words leap out before you know what is coming. Y.M.
Well, take a "flash of wit"-repartee.
Flash is the right word.
There is no time to arrange the words.
There is no thinking, no reflecting.
Where there is a wit-mechanism it is automatic in its action and needs no help.
Where the wit-mechanism is lacking, no amount of study and reflection can manufacture the product. Y.M.
You really think a man originates nothing, creates nothing. _The Thinking-Process_ O.M.
Men perceive, and their brain-machines automatically combine the things perceived.
It takes fifty men a hundred years to invent it.
One meaning of invent is discover.
I use the word in that sense.
Little by little they discover and apply the multitude of details that go to make the perfect engine.
Watt noticed that confined steam was strong enough to lift the lid of the teapot.
He didn't create the idea, he merely discovered the fact; the cat had noticed it a hundred times.
From the teapot he evolved the cylinder-from the displaced lid he evolved the piston-rod. To attach something to the piston-rod to be moved by it, was a simple matter-crank and wheel.
The process is the same.
The first actor was a savage.
He reproduced in his theatrical war-dances, scalp-dances, and so on, incidents which he had seen in real life.
A more advanced civilization produced more incidents, more episodes; the actor and the story-teller borrowed them.
And so the drama grew, little by little, stage by stage. It is made up of the facts of life, not creations.
It took centuries to develop the Greek drama.
It borrowed from preceding ages; it lent to the ages that came after.
Men observe and combine, that is all.
So does a rat. Y.M.
He observes a smell, he infers a cheese, he seeks and finds.
The astronomer observes this and that; adds his this and that to the this-and-thats of a hundred predecessors, infers an invisible planet, seeks it and finds it.
The rat gets into a trap; gets out with trouble; infers that cheese in traps lacks value, and meddles with that trap no more.
The astronomer is very proud of his achievement, the rat is proud of his.
Yet both are machines; they have done machine work, they have originated nothing, they have no right to be vain; the whole credit belongs to their Maker.
They are entitled to no honors, no praises, no monuments when they die, no remembrance.
In earned personal dignity, then, and in personal merit for what he does, it follows of necessity that he is on the same level as a rat? O.M.
His brother the rat; yes, that is how it seems to me.
Neither of them being entitled to any personal merit for what he does, it follows of necessity that neither of them has a right to arrogate to himself (personally created) superiorities over his brother. Y.M.
Are you determined to go on believing in these insanities?
Would you go on believing in them in the face of able arguments backed by collated facts and instances? O.M.
I have been a humble, earnest, and sincere Truth-Seeker. Y.M.
The humble, earnest, and sincere Truth-Seeker is always convertible by such means. Y.M.
I am thankful to God to hear you say this, for now I know that your conversion- O.M.
I said I have _been _a Truth-Seeker. Y.M.
I am not that now.
The rest of my days will be spent in patching and painting and puttying and caulking my priceless possession and in looking the other way when an imploring argument or a damaging fact approaches. 1.
The Marquess of Worcester had done all of this more than a century earlier. VI Instinct and Thought Young Man.
Those drunken theories of yours, advanced a while ago-concerning the rat and all that-strip Man bare of all his dignities, grandeurs, sublimities. Old Man.
He hasn't any to strip-they are shams, stolen clothes.
He claims credits which belong solely to his Maker. Y.M.
But you have no right to put him on a level with a rat. O.M.
That would not be fair to the rat.
The rat is well above him, there. Y.M.
No, I am not. Y.M.
Then what do you mean? O.M.
That comes under the head of the Moral Sense.
It is a large question.
Let us finish with what we are about now, before we take it up. Y.M.
You have seemed to concede that you place Man and the rat on a level.
In form-not a degree. Y.M.
I think that the rat's mind and the man's mind are the same machine, but of unequal capacities-like yours and Edison's; like the African pygmy's and Homer's; like the Bushman's and Bismarck's. Y.M.
How are you going to make that out, when the lower animals have no mental quality but instinct, while man possesses reason? O.M.
It is merely unthinking and mechanical exercise of inherited habit. O.M.
What originated the habit? Y.M.
The first animal started it, its descendants have inherited it. O.M.
How did the first one come to start it? Y.M.
I don't know; but it didn't _think _it out. O.M.
How do you know it didn't? Y.M.
Well-I have a right to suppose it didn't, anyway. O.M.
I don't believe you have.
I know what you call it: the mechanical and automatic putting together of impressions received from outside, and drawing an inference from them. O.M.
Now my idea of the meaningless term "instinct" is, that it is merely _petrified thought; _solidified and made inanimate by habit; thought which was once alive and awake, but is become unconscious-walks in its sleep, so to speak. Y.M.
Take a herd of cows, feeding in a pasture.
Their heads are all turned in one direction.
They do that instinctively; they gain nothing by it, they have no reason for it, they don't know why they do it.
It is an inherited habit which was originally thought-that is to say, observation of an exterior fact, and a valuable inference drawn from that observation and confirmed by experience.
The original wild ox noticed that with the wind in his favor he could smell his enemy in time to escape; then he inferred that it was worth while to keep his nose to the wind.
That is the process which man calls reasoning.
Man's thought-machine works just like the other animals', but it is a better one and more Edisonian.
Man, in the ox's place, would go further, reason wider: he would face part of the herd the other way and protect both front and rear. Y.M.
Did you stay the term instinct is meaningless? O.M.
I think it is a bastard word.
Well, in putting on trousers a man always inserts the same old leg first-never the other one.
There is no advantage in that, and no sense in it.
All men do it, yet no man thought it out and adopted it of set purpose, I imagine.
But it is a habit which is transmitted, no doubt, and will continue to be transmitted. Y.M.
Can you prove that the habit exists? O.M.
You can prove it, if you doubt.
If you will take a man to a clothing-store and watch him try on a dozen pairs of trousers, you will see. Y.M.
The cow illustration is not- O.M.
Sufficient to show that a dumb animal's mental machine is just the same as a man's and its reasoning processes the same?
If you should hand Mr. Edison a box which you caused to fly open by some concealed device he would infer a spring, and would hunt for it and find it.
Now an uncle of mine had an old horse who used to get into the closed lot where the corn-crib was and dishonestly take the corn.
Presently the horse came and pulled the pin out with his teeth and went in. Nobody taught him that; he had observed-then thought it out for himself.
His process did not differ from Edison's; he put this and that together and drew an inference-and the peg, too; but I made him sweat for it. Y.M.
It has something of the seeming of thought about it.
Still it is not very elaborate.
Suppose Mr. Edison has been enjoying some one's hospitalities.
He comes again by and by, and the house is vacant.
He infers that his host has moved.
A while afterward, in another town, he sees the man enter a house; he infers that that is the new home, and follows to inquire. Here, now, is the experience of a gull, as related by a naturalist.
But, once the gull was away on a journey for a few days, and when it returned the house was vacant.
Its friends had removed to a village three miles distant. Several months later it saw the head of the family on the street there, followed him home, entered the house without excuse or apology, and became a daily guest again.
Gulls do not rank high mentally, but this one had memory and the reasoning faculty, you see, and applied them Edisonially. Y.M.
Yet it was not an Edison and couldn't be developed into one. O.M.
That is neither here nor there.
If Edison were in trouble and a stranger helped him out of it and next day he got into the same difficulty again, he would infer the wise thing to do in case he knew the stranger's address.
Here is a case of a bird and a stranger as related by a naturalist.
An Englishman saw a bird flying around about his dog's head, down in the grounds, and uttering cries of distress.
He went there to see about it.
The dog had a young bird in his mouth-unhurt.
The gentleman rescued it and put it on a bush and brought the dog away.
The distance covered was four hundred yards.
The same dog was the culprit; he had the young bird again, and once more he had to give it up.
Now the mother bird had reasoned it all out: since the stranger had helped her once, she inferred that he would do it again; she knew where to find him, and she went upon her errand with confidence.
Her mental processes were what Edison's would have been.
She put this and that together-and that is all that thought _is _-and out of them built her logical arrangement of inferences.
Edison couldn't have done it any better himself. Y.M.
Do you believe that many of the dumb animals can think? O.M.
Yes-the elephant, the monkey, the horse, the dog, the parrot, the macaw, the mocking-bird, and many others.
The elephant whose mate fell into a pit, and who dumped dirt and rubbish into the pit till bottom was raised high enough to enable the captive to step out, was equipped with the reasoning quality.
I conceive that all animals that can learn things through teaching and drilling have to know how to observe, and put this and that together and draw an inference-the process of thinking.
Could you teach an idiot the manual of arms, and to advance, retreat, and go through complex field maneuvers at the word of command? Y.M.
Not if he were a thorough idiot. O.M.
Well, canary-birds can learn all that; dogs and elephants learn all sorts of wonderful things.
Fleas can be taught nearly anything that a Congressman can. Y.M.
Granting, then, that dumb animals are able to think upon a low plane, is there any that can think upon a high one?
Is there one that is well up toward man? O.M.
Oh, come! you are abolishing the intellectual frontier which separates man and beast. O.M.
One cannot abolish what does not exist. Y.M.
You are not in earnest, I hope.
You cannot mean to seriously say there is no such frontier. O.M.
I do say it seriously.
The instances of the horse, the gull, the mother bird, and the elephant show that those creatures put their this's and thats together just as Edison would have done it and drew the same inferences that he would have drawn.
Their mental machinery was just like his, also its manner of working.
Their equipment was as inferior to the Strasburg clock, but that is the only difference-there is no frontier. Y.M.
It looks exasperatingly true; and is distinctly offensive.
It elevates the dumb beasts to-to- O.M.
Let us drop that lying phrase, and call them the Unrevealed Creatures; so far as we can know, there is no such thing as a dumb beast. Y.M.
On what grounds do you make that assertion? O.M.
Dumb" beast suggests an animal that has no thought-machinery, no understanding, no speech, no way of communicating what is in its mind.
We know that a hen _has _speech.
We cannot understand everything she says, but we easily learn two or three of her phrases.
We understand the cat when she stretches herself out, purring with affection and contentment and lifts up a soft voice and says, "Come, kitties, supper's ready"; we understand her when she goes mourning about and says, "Where can they be?
Won't you help me hunt for them?" and we understand the disreputable Tom when he challenges at midnight from his shed, "You come over here, you product of immoral commerce, and I'll make your fur fly!
We understand a few of a dog's phrases and we learn to understand a few of the remarks and gestures of any bird or other animal that we domesticate and observe.
The clearness and exactness of the few of the hen's speeches which we understand is argument that she can communicate to her kind a hundred things which we cannot comprehend-in a word, that she can converse.
And this argument is also applicable in the case of others of the great army of the Unrevealed.
It is just like man's vanity and impertinence to call an animal dumb because it is dumb to his dull perceptions.
Now as to the ant- Y.M.
Yes, go back to the ant, the creature that-as you seem to think-sweeps away the last vestige of an intellectual frontier between man and the Unrevealed. O.M.
That is what she surely does.
In all his history the aboriginal Australian never thought out a house for himself and built it.
The ant is an amazing architect.
No savage race has produced architects who could approach the ant in genius or culture.
No civilized race has produced architects who could plan a house better for the uses proposed than can hers.
That could be mere instinct. O.M.
It would elevate the savage if he had it.
But let us look further before we decide.
The ant has soldiers-battalions, regiments, armies; and they have their appointed captains and generals, who lead them to battle. Y.M.
That could be instinct, too. O.M.
We will look still further.
The ant has a system of government; it is well planned, elaborate, and is well carried on. Y.M.
She has crowds of slaves, and is a hard and unjust employer of forced labor. Y.M.
She has cows, and milks them. Y.M.
In Texas she lays out a farm twelve feet square, plants it, weeds it, cultivates it, gathers the crop and stores it away. Y.M.
Instinct, all the same. O.M.
The ant discriminates between friend and stranger.
Sir John Lubbock took ants from two different nests, made them drunk with whiskey and laid them, unconscious, by one of the nests, near some water.
Ants from the nest came and examined and discussed these disgraced creatures, then carried their friends home and threw the strangers overboard.
Sir John repeated the experiment a number of times.
For a time the sober ants did as they had done at first-carried their friends home and threw the strangers overboard.
But finally they lost patience, seeing that their reformatory efforts went for nothing, and threw both friends and strangers overboard.
Come-is this instinct, or is it thoughtful and intelligent discussion of a thing new-absolutely new-to their experience; with a verdict arrived at, sentence passed, and judgment executed?
Is it instinct?-thought petrified by ages of habit-or isn't it brand-new thought, inspired by the new occasion, the new circumstances? Y.M.
I have to concede it.
It was not a result of habit; it has all the look of reflection, thought, putting this and that together, as you phrase it.
I believe it was thought. O.M.
I will give you another instance of thought.
Franklin had a cup of sugar on a table in his room.
The ants got at it.
He tried several preventives; and ants rose superior to them.
Finally he contrived one which shut off access-probably set the table's legs in pans of water, or drew a circle of tar around the cup, I don't remember.
At any rate, he watched to see what they would do.
They tried various schemes-failures, every one.
The ants were badly puzzled.
Finally they held a consultation, discussed the problem, arrived at a decision-and this time they beat that great philosopher.
They formed in procession, cross the floor, climbed the wall, marched across the ceiling to a point just over the cup, then one by one they let go and fell down into it!
Was that instinct-thought petrified by ages of inherited habit? Y.M.
No, I don't believe it was.
I believe it was a newly reasoned scheme to meet a new emergency. O.M.
You have conceded the reasoning power in two instances. I come now to a mental detail wherein the ant is a long way the superior of any human being.
Sir John Lubbock proved by many experiments that an ant knows a stranger ant of her own species in a moment, even when the stranger is disguised-with paint.
Also he proved that an ant knows every individual in her hive of five hundred thousand souls.
Also, after a year's absence one of the five hundred thousand she will straightway recognize the returned absentee and grace the recognition with an affectionate welcome.
How are these recognitions made?
Not by color, for painted ants were recognized.
Not by smell, for ants that had been dipped in chloroform were recognized.
Has any man a memory for form and feature approaching that? Y.M.
The ant has observation, the reasoning faculty, and the preserving adjunct of a prodigious memory; she has duplicated man's development and the essential features of his civilization, and you call it all instinct! Y.M.
Perhaps I lacked the reasoning faculty myself. O.M.
Well, don't tell anybody, and don't do it again. Y.M.
We have come a good way.
As a result-as I understand it-I am required to concede that there is absolutely no intellectual frontier separating Man and the Unrevealed Creatures? O.M.
That is what you are required to concede.
There is no such frontier-there is no way to get around that.
Man has a finer and more capable machine in him than those others, but it is the same machine and works in the same way.
And neither he nor those others can command the machine-it is strictly automatic, independent of control, works when it pleases, and when it doesn't please, it can't be forced. Y.M.
Then man and the other animals are all alike, as to mental machinery, and there isn't any difference of any stupendous magnitude between them, except in quality, not in kind. O.M.
That is about the state of it-intellectuality.
There are pronounced limitations on both sides.
We can't learn to understand much of their language, but the dog, the elephant, etc., learn to understand a very great deal of ours.
To that extent they are our superiors.
On the other hand, they can't learn reading, writing, etc., nor any of our fine and high things, and there we have a large advantage over them. Y.M.
Very well, let them have what they've got, and welcome; there is still a wall, and a lofty one.
They haven't got the Moral Sense; we have it, and it lifts us immeasurably above them. O.M.
Now look here-let's call a halt.
I have stood the other infamies and insanities and that is enough; I am not going to have man and the other animals put on the same level morally. O.M.
I wasn't going to hoist man up to that. Y.M.
I think it is not right to jest about such things. O.M.
I am not jesting, I am merely reflecting a plain and simple truth-and without uncharitableness.
The fact that man knows right from wrong proves his _intellectual _superiority to the other creatures; but the fact that he can _do _wrong proves his _moral _inferiority to any creature that _cannot_.
It is my belief that this position is not assailable. _Free Will_ Y.M.
What is your opinion regarding Free Will? O.M.
That there is no such thing.
Did the man possess it who gave the old woman his last shilling and trudged home in the storm? Y.M.
He had the choice between succoring the old woman and leaving her to suffer.
Yes, there was a choice to be made, between bodily comfort on the one hand and the comfort of the spirit on the other.
The body made a strong appeal, of course-the body would be quite sure to do that; the spirit made a counter appeal.
A choice had to be made between the two appeals, and was made.
Who or what determined that choice? Y.M.
Any one but you would say that the man determined it, and that in doing it he exercised Free Will. O.M.
We are constantly assured that every man is endowed with Free Will, and that he can and must exercise it where he is offered a choice between good conduct and less-good conduct.
He did not make the choice, it was made _for _him by forces which he could not control.
Free Will has always existed in _words_, but it stops there, I think-stops short of _fact_.
I would not use those words-Free Will-but others. Y.M.
What is the difference? O.M.
The one implies untrammeled power to _act _as you please, the other implies nothing beyond a mere _mental process: _the critical ability to determine which of two things is nearest right and just. Y.M.
Make the difference clear, please. O.M.
The mind can freely _select, choose, point out _the right and just one-its function stops there.
It can go no further in the matter.
It has no authority to say that the right one shall be acted upon and the wrong one discarded.
That authority is in other hands. Y.M.
In the machine which stands for him.
In his born disposition and the character which has been built around it by training and environment. Y.M.
It will act upon the right one of the two? O.M.
It will do as it pleases in the matter.
George Washington's machine would act upon the right one; Pizarro would act upon the wrong one. Y.M.
Then as I understand it a bad man's mental machinery calmly and judicially points out which of two things is right and just- O.M.
It is merely a thermometer: it registers the heat and the cold, and cares not a farthing about either. Y.M.
Then we must not claim that if a man _knows _which of two things is right he is absolutely _bound _to do that thing? O.M.
His temperament and training will decide what he shall do, and he will do it; he cannot help himself, he has no authority over the matter.
Wasn't it right for David to go out and slay Goliath? Y.M.
Then it would have been equally _right _for any one else to do it? Y.M.
Then it would have been _right _for a born coward to attempt it? Y.M.
You know that no born coward ever would have attempted it, don't you? Y.M.
You know that a born coward's make and temperament would be an absolute and insurmountable bar to his ever essaying such a thing, don't you? Y.M.
Yes, I know it. O.M.
He clearly perceives that it would be _right _to try it? Y.M.
His mind has Free Choice in determining that it would be _right _to try it? Y.M.
Then if by reason of his inborn cowardice he simply can _not _essay it, what becomes of his Free Will?
Where is his Free Will?
Why claim that he has Free Will when the plain facts show that he hasn't? Why contend that because he and David _see _the right alike, both must _act _alike?
Why impose the same laws upon goat and lion? Y.M.
There is really no such thing as Free Will? O.M.
It is what I think.
But it has nothing to do with _intellectual perceptions of right and wrong, _and is not under their command.
David's temperament and training had Will, and it was a compulsory force; David had to obey its decrees, he had no choice.
The coward's temperament and training possess Will, and _it _is compulsory; it commands him to avoid danger, and he obeys, he has no choice.
But neither the Davids nor the cowards possess Free Will-will that may do the right or do the wrong, as their _mental _verdict shall decide. _Not Two Values, But Only One_ Y.M.
There is one thing which bothers me: I can't tell where you draw the line between _material _covetousness and _spiritual _covetousness. O.M.
I don't draw any. Y.M.
There is no such thing as _material _covetousness.
All covetousness is spiritual. Y.M. _All _longings, desires, ambitions _spiritual, _never material? O.M.
The Master in you requires that in _all _cases you shall content his _spirit _-that alone.
He never requires anything else, he never interests himself in any other matter. Y.M.
When he covets somebody's money-isn't that rather distinctly material and gross? O.M.
Maybe the thing longed for is a new hat.
You get it and your vanity is pleased, your spirit contented.
Suppose your friends deride the hat, make fun of it: at once it loses its value; you are ashamed of it, you put it out of your sight, you never want to see it again. Y.M.
It is the same hat, isn't it?
It is in no way altered.
But it wasn't the _hat _you wanted, but only what it stood for-a something to please and content your _spirit_.
When it failed of that, the whole of its value was gone.
There are no _material _values; there are only spiritual ones.
You will hunt in vain for a material value that is _actual, real-_there is no such thing.
The only value it possesses, for even a moment, is the spiritual value back of it: remove that end and it is at once worthless-like the hat. Y.M.
Can you extend that to money? O.M.
It is merely a symbol, it has no _material _value; you think you desire it for its own sake, but it is not so.
You desire it for the spiritual content it will bring; if it fail of that, you discover that its value is gone.
His money's value was gone.
He realized that his joy in it came not from the money itself, but from the spiritual contentment he got out of his family's enjoyment of the pleasures and delights it lavished upon them.
Money has no _material _value; if you remove its spiritual value nothing is left but dross.
It is so with all things, little or big, majestic or trivial-there are no exceptions.
Crowns, scepters, pennies, paste jewels, village notoriety, world-wide fame-they are all the same, they have no _material _value: while they content the _spirit _they are precious, when this fails they are worthless. _A Difficult Question_ Y.M.
You keep me confused and perplexed all the time by your elusive terminology.
Sometimes you divide a man up into two or three separate personalities, each with authorities, jurisdictions, and responsibilities of its own, and when he is in that condition I can't grasp it.
Now when _I_ speak of a man, he is _the whole thing in one, _and easy to hold and contemplate. O.M.
That is pleasant and convenient, if true.
When you speak of "my body" who is the "my"? Y.M.
It is the "me." O.M.
The body is a property then, and the Me owns it.
Who is the Me? Y.M.
The Me is _the whole thing; _it is a common property; an undivided ownership, vested in the whole entity. O.M.
If the Me admires a rainbow, is it the whole Me that admires it, including the hair, hands, heels, and all? Y.M.
It is my _mind _that admires it. O.M.
So _you _divide the Me yourself.
Everybody does; everybody must. What, then, definitely, is the Me? Y.M.
I think it must consist of just those two parts-the body and the mind. O.M.
If you say "I believe the world is round," who is the "I" that is speaking? Y.M.
If you say "I grieve for the loss of my father," who is the "I"? Y.M.
Is the mind exercising an intellectual function when it examines and accepts the evidence that the world is round? Y.M.
Is it exercising an intellectual function when it grieves for the loss of your father? Y.M.
That is not cerebration, brain-work, it is a matter of _feeling_. O.M.
Then its source is not in your mind, but in your _moral _territory? Y.M.
I have to grant it. O.M.
Is your mind a part of your _physical _equipment? Y.M.
No. It is independent of it; it is spiritual. O.M.
Being spiritual, it cannot be affected by physical influences? Y.M.
Does the mind remain sober with the body is drunk? Y.M.
There _is _a physical effect present, then? Y.M.
It looks like it. O.M.
A cracked skull has resulted in a crazy mind.
Why should it happen if the mind is spiritual, and _independent _of physical influences? Y.M.
When you have a pain in your foot, how do you know it? Y.M.
But you do not feel it until a nerve reports the hurt to the brain.
Yet the brain is the seat of the mind, is it not? Y.M.
But isn't spiritual enough to learn what is happening in the outskirts without the help of the _physical _messenger?
You say, "I grieve," and again the Me is not all speaking, but only the _moral _part.
You say the mind is wholly spiritual; then you say "I have a pain" and find that this time the Me is mental _and _spiritual combined.
We all use the "I" in this indeterminate fashion, there is no help for it.
We imagine a Master and King over what you call The Whole Thing, and we speak of him as "I," but when we try to define him we find we cannot do it.
Maybe the Me is the Soul? O.M.
What is the Soul? Y.M.
Neither does any one else. _The Master Passion_ Y.M.
What is the Master?-or, in common speech, the Conscience?
It is that mysterious autocrat, lodged in a man, which compels the man to content its desires.
It may be called the Master Passion-the hunger for Self-Approval. Y.M.
Where is its seat? O.M.
In man's moral constitution. Y.M.
Are its commands for the man's good? O.M.
It is indifferent to the man's good; it never concerns itself about anything but the satisfying of its own desires.
It can be _trained _to prefer things which will be for the man's good, but it will prefer them only because they will content _it _better than other things would. Y.M.
Then even when it is trained to high ideals it is still looking out for its own contentment, and not for the man's good. O.M.
Trained or untrained, it cares nothing for the man's good, and never concerns itself about it. Y.M.
It seems to be an _immoral _force seated in the man's moral constitution. O.M.
It seeks money, and it probably considers that that is an advantage for the man? O.M.
It is not always seeking money, it is not always seeking power, nor office, nor any other _material _advantage.
In _all _cases it seeks a _spiritual _contentment, let the _means _be what they may.
Its desires are determined by the man's temperament-and it is lord over that.
Temperament, Conscience, Susceptibility, Spiritual Appetite, are, in fact, the same thing.
Have you ever heard of a person who cared nothing for money? Y.M.
A scholar who would not leave his garret and his books to take a place in a business house at a large salary. O.M.
He had to satisfy his master-that is to say, his temperament, his Spiritual Appetite-and it preferred books to money.
Are there other cases? Y.M.
It is a good instance.
The hermit endures solitude, hunger, cold, and manifold perils, to content his autocrat, who prefers these things, and prayer and contemplation, to money or to any show or luxury that money can buy.
The artist, the poet, the scientist. O.M.
Their autocrat prefers the deep pleasures of these occupations, either well paid or ill paid, to any others in the market, at any price.
You _realize _that the Master Passion-the contentment of the spirit-concerns itself with many things besides so-called material advantage, material prosperity, cash, and all that? Y.M.
I think I must concede it. O.M.
There are perhaps as many Temperaments that would refuse the burdens and vexations and distinctions of public office as there are that hunger after them.
The one set of Temperaments seek the contentment of the spirit, and that alone; and this is exactly the case with the other set.
Neither set seeks anything _but _the contentment of the spirit.
If the one is sordid, both are sordid; and equally so, since the end in view is precisely the same in both cases. And in both cases Temperament decides the preference-and Temperament is _born_, not made. _Conclusion_ O.M.
You have been taking a holiday? Y.M.
Yes; a mountain tramp covering a week.
Are you ready to talk? O.M.
What shall we begin with? Y.M.
Well, lying abed resting up, two days and nights, I have thought over all these talks, and passed them carefully in review.
With this result: that... that... are you intending to publish your notions about Man some day? O.M.
Now and then, in these past twenty years, the Master inside of me has half-intended to order me to set them to paper and publish them.
Do I have to tell you why the order has remained unissued, or can you explain so simple a thing without my help? Y.M.
By your doctrine, it is simplicity itself: outside influences moved your interior Master to give the order; stronger outside influences deterred him.
Without the outside influences, neither of these impulses could ever have been born, since a person's brain is incapable or originating an idea within itself. O.M.
The matter of publishing or withholding is still in your Master's hands.
If some day an outside influence shall determine him to publish, he will give the order, and it will be obeyed. O.M.
Upon reflection I have arrived at the conviction that the publication of your doctrines would be harmful.
Do you pardon me? O.M.
You are an instrument-a speaking-trumpet.
Speaking-trumpets are not responsible for what is said through them.
Outside influences-in the form of lifelong teachings, trainings, notions, prejudices, and other second-hand importations-have persuaded the Master within you that the publication of these doctrines would be harmful.
Very well, this is quite natural, and was to be expected; in fact, was inevitable.
Go on; for the sake of ease and convenience, stick to habit: speak in the first person, and tell me what your Master thinks about it. Y.M.
Well, to begin: it is a desolating doctrine; it is not inspiring, enthusing, uplifting.
Tell me-what do men admire most in each other? Y.M.
Intellect, courage, majesty of build, beauty of countenance, charity, benevolence, magnanimity, kindliness, heroism, and-and- O.M.
I would not go any further.
You have named the elementals of the human rainbow, and also one _blend _-heroism, which is made out of courage and magnanimity.
Very well, then; which of these elements does the possessor of it manufacture for himself?
He is born with it. O.M.
No. He is born with it. O.M.
Is it majesty of build, beauty of countenance? Y.M.
No. They are birthrights. O.M.
Who manufactures them, then? Y.M.
Where does the credit of it belong? Y.M.
And the glory of which you spoke, and the applause? Y.M.
Then it is _you _who degrade man.
You have made a machine of him. O.M.
Who devised that cunning and beautiful mechanism, a man's hand? Y.M.
Who devised the law by which it automatically hammers out of a piano an elaborate piece of music, without error, while the man is thinking about something else, or talking to a friend? Y.M.
Who devised the wonderful machinery which automatically drives its renewing and refreshing streams through the body, day and night, without assistance or advice from the man?
Who devised the man's mind, whose machinery works automatically, interests itself in what it pleases, regardless of its will or desire, labors all night when it likes, deaf to his appeals for mercy?
God devised all these things. _I_ have not made man a machine, God made him a machine. I am merely calling attention to the fact, nothing more.
Is it wrong to call attention to the fact?
Is it a crime? Y.M.
I think it is wrong to _expose _a fact when harm can come of it. O.M.
Look at the matter as it stands now.
Man has been taught that he is the supreme marvel of the Creation; he believes it; in all the ages he has never doubted it, whether he was a naked savage, or clothed in purple and fine linen, and civilized.
This has made his heart buoyant, his life cheery.
You really think that? Y.M.
Have you ever seen me uncheerful, unhappy. Y.M.
Well, _I_ believe these things.
Why have they not made me unhappy? Y.M.
You never let _that _escape from your scheme. O.M.
If a man is born with an unhappy temperament, nothing can make him happy; if he is born with a happy temperament, nothing can make him unhappy. Y.M.
What-not even a degrading and heart-chilling system of beliefs? O.M.
They strive in vain against inborn temperament. Y.M.
I can't believe that, and I don't. O.M.
Now you are speaking hastily.
It shows that you have not studiously examined the facts.
Of all your intimates, which one is the happiest?
And which one is the unhappiest?
They are extremes, abnormals; their temperaments are as opposite as the poles.
Their life-histories are about alike-but look at the results!
Their ages are about the same-about around fifty. Burgess had always been buoyant, hopeful, happy; Adams has always been cheerless, hopeless, despondent.
As young fellows both tried country journalism-and failed.
They tried the law-and failed. Burgess remained happy-because he couldn't help it.
Adams was wretched-because he couldn't help it.
From that day to this, those two men have gone on trying things and failing: Burgess has come out happy and cheerful every time; Adams the reverse.
And we do absolutely know that these men's inborn temperaments have remained unchanged through all the vicissitudes of their material affairs.
Let us see how it is with their immaterials.
Both have been zealous Democrats; both have been zealous Republicans; both have been zealous Mugwumps.
Burgess has always found happiness and Adams unhappiness in these several political beliefs and in their migrations out of them.
Both of these men have been Presbyterians, Universalists, Methodists, Catholics-then Presbyterians again, then Methodists again.
Burgess has always found rest in these excursions, and Adams unrest.
They are trying Christian Science, now, with the customary result, the inevitable result.
No political or religious belief can make Burgess unhappy or the other man happy.
I assure you it is purely a matter of temperament.
Beliefs are _acquirements_, temperaments are _born_; beliefs are subject to change, nothing whatever can change temperament. Y.M.
You have instanced extreme temperaments. O.M.
Yes, the half-dozen others are modifications of the extremes.
But the law is the same.
Where the temperament is two-thirds happy, or two-thirds unhappy, no political or religious beliefs can change the proportions.
The vast majority of temperaments are pretty equally balanced; the intensities are absent, and this enables a nation to learn to accommodate itself to its political and religious circumstances and like them, be satisfied with them, at last prefer them.
Nations do not _think_, they only _feel_.
They get their feelings at second hand through their temperaments, not their brains.
You know I am. Is the human race cheerful?
Considering what it can stand, and be happy, you do me too much honor when you think that _I_ can place before it a system of plain cold facts that can take the cheerfulness out of it.
I beg you not to be troubled. THE DEATH OF JEAN The death of Jean Clemens occurred early in the morning of December 24, 1909.
Mr. Clemens was in great stress of mind when I first saw him, but a few hours later I found him writing steadily. "I am setting it down," he said, "everything.
It is a relief to me to write it.
It furnishes me an excuse for thinking.
At intervals during that day and the next I looked in, and usually found him writing.
Then on the evening of the 26th, when he knew that Jean had been laid to rest in Elmira, he came to my room with the manuscript in his hand. "I have finished it," he said; "read it.
I can form no opinion of it myself.
If you think it worthy, some day-at the proper time-it can end my autobiography.
Would a book contain them?
Would two books contain them?
They pour into the mind in a flood.
They are little things that have been always happening every day, and were always so unimportant and easily forgettable before-but now!
At my door Jean said, "I can't kiss you good night, father: I have a cold, and you could catch it.
I bent and kissed her hand.
She was moved-I saw it in her eyes-and she impulsively kissed my hand in return.
Then with the usual gay "Sleep well, dear!" from both, we parted. At half past seven this morning I woke, and heard voices outside my door.
I said to myself, "Jean is starting on her usual horseback flight to the station for the mail.
And looking so placid, so natural, and as if asleep.
We knew what had happened.
She was an epileptic: she had been seized with a convulsion and heart failure in her bath.
The doctor had to come several miles.
His efforts, like our previous ones, failed to bring her back to life. It is noon, now.
How lovable she looks, how sweet and how tranquil!
I had to send a like shot to Clara, in Berlin, this morning.
With the peremptory addition, "You must not come home.
Clara and her husband sailed from here on the 11th of this month.
How will Clara bear it? Jean, from her babyhood, was a worshiper of Clara. Four days ago I came back from a month's holiday in Bermuda in perfected health; but by some accident the reporters failed to perceive this.
Day before yesterday, letters and telegrams began to arrive from friends and strangers which indicated that I was supposed to be dangerously ill. Yesterday Jean begged me to explain my case through the Associated Press.
I said it was not important enough; but she was distressed and said I must think of Clara.
Clara would see the report in the German papers, and as she had been nursing her husband day and night for four months[2] and was worn out and feeble, the shock might be disastrous.
This morning I sent the sorrowful facts of this day's irremediable disaster to the Associated Press.
Jean lies yonder, I sit here; we are strangers under our own roof; we kissed hands good-by at this door last night-and it was forever, we never suspecting it.
She lies there, and I sit here-writing, busying myself, to keep my heart from breaking.
How dazzlingly the sunshine is flooding the hills around!
It is like a mockery. Seventy-four years old twenty-four days ago.
Who can estimate my age today? I have looked upon her again.
I wonder I can bear it.
She looks just as her mother looked when she lay dead in that Florentine villa so long ago.
The sweet placidity of death! it is more beautiful than sleep. I saw her mother buried.
I said I would never endure that horror again; that I would never again look into the grave of any one dear to me.
I have kept to that.
She was at the door, beaming a welcome, when I reached this house the next evening.
We played cards, and she tried to teach me a new game called "Mark Twain.
We sat chatting cheerily in the library last night, and she wouldn't let me look into the loggia, where she was making Christmas preparations.
What desecrating hand will ever banish that eloquent unfinished surprise from that place?
All these little matters have happened in the last four days.
Nothing she said or thought or did is little now.
And all the lavish humor!-what is become of it?
It is pathos, now. Pathos, and the thought of it brings tears. All these little things happened such a few hours ago-and now she lies yonder.
Lies yonder, and cares for nothing any more. Strange-marvelous-incredible!
I have had this experience before; but it would still be incredible if I had had it a thousand times. "MISS JEAN IS DEAD!" That is what Katy said.
Such a turmoil of Christmas presents for servants and friends!
They are everywhere; tables, chairs, sofas, the floor-everything is occupied, and over-occupied.
It is many and many a year since I have seen the like.
In that ancient day Mrs. Clemens and I used to slip softly into the nursery at midnight on Christmas Eve and look the array of presents over.
The children were little then.
And now here is Jean's parlor looking just as that nursery used to look.
The presents are not labeled-the hands are forever idle that would have labeled them today.
Jean's mother always worked herself down with her Christmas preparations.
Jean did the same yesterday and the preceding days, and the fatigue has cost her her life.
The fatigue caused the convulsion that attacked her this morning.
She had had no attack for months. Jean was so full of life and energy that she was constantly in danger of overtaxing her strength.
Every morning she was in the saddle by half past seven, and off to the station for her mail.
She examined the letters and I distributed them: some to her, some to Mr. Paine, the others to the stenographer and myself.
She dispatched her share and then mounted her horse again and went around superintending her farm and her poultry the rest of the day.
We would get a housekeeper; also we would put her share of the secretary-work into Mr. Paine's hands. No-she wasn't willing.
She had been making plans herself.
The matter ended in a compromise, I submitted.
She wouldn't audit the bills and let Paine fill out the checks-she would continue to attend to that herself.
Also, she would continue to be housekeeper, and let Katy assist.
Also, she would continue to answer the letters of personal friends for me.
Both of us called it by that name, though I was not able to see where any formidable change had been made. However, Jean was pleased, and that was sufficient for me.
She was urgent that I should do it, and said that if I would put off the trip until March she would take Katy and go with me.
We struck hands upon that, and said it was settled.
I had a mind to write to Bermuda by tomorrow's ship and secure a furnished house and servants.
I meant to write the letter this morning.
I was getting acquainted with Jean in these last nine months.
She had been long an exile from home when she came to us three-quarters of a year ago.
She had been shut up in sanitariums, many miles from us.
How eloquently glad and grateful she was to cross her father's threshold again! Would I bring her back to life if I could do it?
If a word would do it, I would beg for strength to withhold the word.
And I would have the strength; I am sure of it.
In her loss I am almost bankrupt, and my life is a bitterness, but I am content: for she has been enriched with the most precious of all gifts-that gift which makes all other gifts mean and poor-death.
I have never wanted any released friend of mine restored to life since I reached manhood.
The reporters said there were tears of sorrow in my eyes. True-but they were for _me_, not for him.
He had suffered no loss.
All the fortunes he had ever made before were poverty compared with this one. Why did I build this house, two years ago?
To shelter this vast emptiness?
But I shall stay in it.
The spirits of the dead hallow a house, for me.
It was not so with other members of my family.
Susy died in the house we built in Hartford.
Mrs. Clemens would never enter it again.
But it made the house dearer to me.
I have entered it once since, when it was tenantless and silent and forlorn, but to me it was a holy place and beautiful.
It seemed to me that the spirits of the dead were all about me, and would speak to me and welcome me if they could: Livy, and Susy, and George, and Henry Robinson, and Charles Dudley Warner.
How good and kind they were, and how lovable their lives!
In fancy I could see them all again, I could call the children back and hear them romp again with George-that peerless black ex-slave and children's idol who came one day-a flitting stranger-to wash windows, and stayed eighteen years.
Until he died. Clara and Jean would never enter again the New York hotel which their mother had frequented in earlier days.
They could not bear it.
But I shall stay in this house.
It is dearer to me tonight than ever it was before.
Jean's spirit will make it beautiful for me always.
Her lonely and tragic death-but I will not think of that now. Jean's mother always devoted two or three weeks to Christmas shopping, and was always physically exhausted when Christmas Eve came.
Jean was her very own child-she wore herself out present-hunting in New York these latter days.
Paine has just found on her desk a long list of names-fifty, he thinks-people to whom she sent presents last night. Apparently she forgot no one.
And Katy found there a roll of bank-notes, for the servants. Her dog has been wandering about the grounds today, comradeless and forlorn.
I have seen him from the windows.
She got him from Germany.
He has tall ears and looks exactly like a wolf.
He was educated in Germany, and knows no language but the German.
Jean gave him no orders save in that tongue.
And so when the burglar-alarm made a fierce clamor at midnight a fortnight ago, the butler, who is French and knows no German, tried in vain to interest the dog in the supposed burglar.
Jean wrote me, to Bermuda, about the incident.
It was the last letter I was ever to receive from her bright head and her competent hand.
The dog will not be neglected. There was never a kinder heart than Jean's.
From her childhood up she always spent the most of her allowance on charities of one kind and another.
After she became secretary and had her income doubled she spent her money upon these things with a free hand.
Mine too, I am glad and grateful to say. She was a loyal friend to all animals, and she loved them all, birds, beasts, and everything-even snakes-an inheritance from me.
She knew all the birds; she was high up in that lore.
She became a member of various humane societies when she was still a little girl-both here and abroad-and she remained an active member to the last.
She founded two or three societies for the protection of animals, here and in Europe. She was an embarrassing secretary, for she fished my correspondence out of the waste-basket and answered the letters.
She thought all letters deserved the courtesy of an answer.
Her mother brought her up in that kindly error. She could write a good letter, and was swift with her pen.
She had but an indifferent ear for music, but her tongue took to languages with an easy facility.
They cannot heal the hurt, but they take away some of the pain.
Who can count the number of them? She was in exile two years with the hope of healing her malady-epilepsy.
There are no words to express how grateful I am that she did not meet her fate in the hands of strangers, but in the loving shelter of her own home. "MISS JEAN IS DEAD!" It is true.
Jean is dead. A month ago I was writing bubbling and hilarious articles for magazines yet to appear, and now I am writing-this. CHRISTMAS DAY.
And last night I saw again what I had seen then-that strange and lovely miracle-the sweet, soft contours of early maidenhood restored by the gracious hand of death!
Poor fellow, did he know?
I think so. Always when Jean was abroad in the open he was with her; always when she was in the house he was with her, in the night as well as in the day.
Her parlor was his bedroom.
Whenever I happened upon him on the ground floor he always followed me about, and when I went upstairs he went too-in a tumultuous gallop.
But now it was different: after patting him a little I went to the library-he remained behind; when I went upstairs he did not follow me, save with his wistful eyes.
He has wonderful eyes-big, and kind, and eloquent.
He can talk with them.
He is a beautiful creature, and is of the breed of the New York police-dogs.
On a shelf I found a pile of my books, and I knew what it meant.
She was waiting for me to come home from Bermuda and autograph them, then she would send them away.
If I only knew whom she intended them for!
But I shall never know.
Her hand has touched them-it is an accolade-they are noble, now. And in a closet she had hidden a surprise for me-a thing I have often wished I owned: a noble big globe.
I couldn't see it for the tears.
She will never know the pride I take in it, and the pleasure.
Today the mails are full of loving remembrances for her: full of those old, old kind words she loved so well, "Merry Christmas to Jean!
If she could only have lived one day longer! At last she ran out of money, and would not use mine.
So she sent to one of those New York homes for poor girls all the clothes she could spare-and more, most likely. CHRISTMAS NIGHT.-This afternoon they took her away from her room.
Her face was radiant with happy excitement then; it was the same face now, with the dignity of death and the peace of God upon it. They told me the first mourner to come was the dog.
The pity of it-that Jean could not see it!
She so loved the snow. The snow continued to fall.
At six o'clock the hearse drew up to the door to bear away its pathetic burden.
As they lifted the casket, Paine began playing on the orchestrelle Schubert's "Impromptu," which was Jean's favorite.
Then he played the Intermezzo; that was for Susy; then he played the Largo; that was for their mother.
He did this at my request.
Jean was gone out of my life, and would not come back any more.
The dog came to see me at eight o'clock this morning.
He was very affectionate, poor orphan!
My room will be his quarters hereafter. The storm raged all night.
It has raged all the morning.
The snow drives across the landscape in vast clouds, superb, sublime-and Jean not here to see. 2:30 P.M.-It is the time appointed.
Four hundred miles away, but I can see it all, just as if I were there.
The scene is the library in the Langdon homestead.
I said _we_ would be a family.
We said we would be close comrades and happy-just we two.
That fair dream was in my mind when Jean met me at the steamer last Monday; it was in my mind when she received me at the door last Tuesday evening.
We were together; WE WERE A FAMILY! the dream had come true-oh, precisely true, contentedly, true, satisfyingly true! and remained true two whole days. And now?
Now Jean is in her grave! In the grave-if I can believe it.
God rest her sweet spirit! THE TURNING-POINT OF MY LIFE I If I understand the idea, the _Bazar _invites several of us to write upon the above text.
It means the change in my life's course which introduced what must be regarded by me as the most _important _condition of my career.
But it also implies-without intention, perhaps-that that turning-point _itself _was the creator of the new condition.
This gives it too much distinction, too much prominence, too much credit.
I know we have a fashion of saying "such and such an event was the turning-point in my life," but we shouldn't say it.
And all the incidents, big and little, of Caesar's previous life had been leading up to it, stage by stage, link by link.
It was one of the links in your life-chain, and it was one of the links in mine.
We may wait, now, with bated breath, while Caesar reflects.
Your fate and mine are involved in his decision. While he was thus hesitating, the following incident occurred.
A person remarked for his noble mien and graceful aspect appeared close at hand, sitting and playing upon a pipe.
Upon this, Caesar exclaimed: "Let us go whither the omens of the gods and the iniquity of our enemies call us. _The Die Is Cast_." So he crossed-and changed the future of the whole human race, for all time.
But that stranger was a link in Caesar's life-chain, too; and a necessary one.
For I was one of the unavoidable results of the crossing of the Rubicon.
If the stranger, with his trumpet blast, had stayed away (which he _couldn't_, for he was an appointed link) Caesar would not have crossed.
What would have happened, in that case, we can never guess.
We only know that the things that did happen would not have happened.
They might have been replaced by equally prodigious things, of course, but their nature and results are beyond our guessing.
But the matter that interests me personally is that I would not be _here _now, but somewhere else; and probably black-there is no telling.
Very well, I am glad he crossed. And very really and thankfully glad, too, though I never cared anything about it before. II To me, the most important feature of my life is its literary feature.
It was not any more important than its predecessors.
To save space I will go back only a couple of generations and start with an incident of my boyhood.
When I was twelve and a half years old, my father died.
It was in the spring.
The summer came, and brought with it an epidemic of measles.
For a time a child died almost every day.
The village was paralyzed with fright, distress, despair.
Children that were not smitten with the disease were imprisoned in their homes to save them from the infection.
My soul was steeped in this awful dreariness-and in fear.
At some time or other every day and every night a sudden shiver shook me to the marrow, and I said to myself, "There, I've got it! and I shall die.
Life on these miserable terms was not worth living, and at last I made up my mind to get the disease and have it over, one way or the other.
I escaped from the house and went to the house of a neighbor where a playmate of mine was very ill with the malady.
When the chance offered I crept into his room and got into bed with him.
I was discovered by his mother and sent back into captivity. But I had the disease; they could not take that from me.
I came near to dying.
The whole village was interested, and anxious, and sent for news of me every day; and not only once a day, but several times.
A long road, but I could not know that; and as I did not know what its goal was, or even that it had one, I was indifferent.
Also contented. A young printer wanders around a good deal, seeking and finding work; and seeking again, when necessity commands.
I wandered for ten years, under the guidance and dictatorship of Circumstance, and finally arrived in a city of Iowa, where I worked several months.
Among the books that interested me in those days was one about the Amazon.
Also with a longing to open up a trade in coca with all the world.
During months I dreamed that dream, and tried to contrive ways to get to Para and spring that splendid enterprise upon an unsuspecting planet.
A person may PLAN as much as he wants to, but nothing of consequence is likely to come of it until the magician _circumstance _steps in and takes the matter off his hands.
At last Circumstance came to my help. It was in this way.
Circumstance, to help or hurt another man, made him lose a fifty-dollar bill in the street; and to help or hurt me, made me find it.
No, I was the only one.
There were other fools there-shoals and shoals of them-but they were not of my kind.
I was the only one of my kind. Circumstance is powerful, but it cannot work alone; it has to have a partner.
Its partner is man's _temperament_-his natural disposition. His temperament is not his invention, it is _born _in him, and he has no authority over it, neither is he responsible for its acts.
He cannot change it, nothing can change it, nothing can modify it-except temporarily.
But it won't stay modified.
It is permanent, like the color of the man's eyes and the shape of his ears.
Blue eyes are gray in certain unusual lights; but they resume their natural color when that stress is removed. A Circumstance that will coerce one man will have no effect upon a man of a different temperament.
If Circumstance had thrown the bank-note in Caesar's way, his temperament would not have made him start for the Amazon.
His temperament would have compelled him to do something with the money, but not that.
It might have made him advertise the note-and WAIT.
Sometimes a temperament is an ass.
Artificially he IS a mule, for the time being, but at bottom he is an ass yet, and will remain one. By temperament I was the kind of person that DOES things.
Does them, and reflects afterward.
So I started for the Amazon without reflecting and without asking any questions.
That was more than fifty years ago. In all that time my temperament has not changed, by even a shade.
I have been punished many and many a time, and bitterly, for doing things and reflecting afterward, but these tortures have been of no value to me; I still do the thing commanded by Circumstance and Temperament, and reflect afterward.
When I am reflecting, on those occasions, even deaf persons can hear me think. I went by the way of Cincinnati, and down the Ohio and Mississippi.
My idea was to take ship, at New Orleans, for Para.
In New Orleans I inquired, and found there was no ship leaving for Para.
Also, that there never had BEEN one leaving for Para.
A policeman came and asked me what I was doing, and I told him.
He made me move on, and said if he caught me reflecting in the public street again he would run me in. After a few days I was out of money.
Then Circumstance arrived, with another turning-point of my life-a new link.
On my way down, I had made the acquaintance of a pilot.
I begged him to teach me the river, and he consented.
I became a pilot. By and by Circumstance came again-introducing the Civil War, this time, in order to push me ahead another stage or two toward the literary profession.
The boats stopped running, my livelihood was gone. Circumstance came to the rescue with a new turning-point and a fresh link.
My brother was appointed secretary to the new Territory of Nevada, and he invited me to go with him and help him in his office.
I accepted. In Nevada, Circumstance furnished me the silver fever and I went into the mines to make a fortune, as I supposed; but that was not the idea. The idea was to advance me another step toward literature.
For amusement I scribbled things for the Virginia City _Enterprise_.
One isn't a printer ten years without setting up acres of good and bad literature, and learning-unconsciously at first, consciously later-to discriminate between the two, within his mental limitations; and meantime he is unconsciously acquiring what is called a "style.
One of my efforts attracted attention, and the _Enterprise _sent for me and put me on its staff. And so I became a journalist-another link.
By and by Circumstance and the Sacramento _union _sent me to the Sandwich Islands for five or six months, to write up sugar.
I did it; and threw in a good deal of extraneous matter that hadn't anything to do with sugar.
But it was this extraneous matter that helped me to another link. It made me notorious, and San Francisco invited me to lecture.
I had long had a desire to travel and see the world, and now Circumstance had most kindly and unexpectedly hurled me upon the platform and furnished me the means.
Thus I became at last a member of the literary guild.
That was forty-two years ago, and I have been a member ever since.
Circumstance, working in harness with my temperament, created them all and compelled them all.
I often offered help, and with the best intentions, but it was rejected-as a rule, uncourteously.
I could never plan a thing and get it to come out the way I planned it.
When I used to read that such and such a general did a certain brilliant thing, I believed it.
Whereas it was not so. Circumstance did it by help of his temperament.
The circumstance would have failed of effect with a general of another temperament: he might see the chance, but lose the advantage by being by nature too slow or too quick or too doubtful.
Once General Grant was asked a question about a matter which had been much debated by the public and the newspapers; he answered the question without any hesitancy.
General, who planned the march through Georgia?
He added that the enemy usually makes your plans for you.
I see no great difference between a man and a watch, except that the man is conscious and the watch isn't, and the man TRIES to plan things and the watch doesn't.
The watch doesn't wind itself and doesn't regulate itself-these things are done exteriorly.
Outside influences, outside circumstances, wind the MAN and regulate him.
Left to himself, he wouldn't get regulated at all, and the sort of time he would keep would not be valuable.
Some rare men are wonderful watches, with gold case, compensation balance, and all those things, and some men are only simple and sweet and humble Waterburys.
I am a Waterbury. A Waterbury of that kind, some say. A nation is only an individual multiplied.
It makes plans and Circumstance comes and upsets them-or enlarges them.
Some patriots throw the tea overboard; some other patriots destroy a Bastille.
The PLANS stop there; then Circumstance comes in, quite unexpectedly, and turns these modest riots into a revolution. And there was poor Columbus.
He elaborated a deep plan to find a new route to an old country.
Circumstance revised his plan for him, and he found a new _world_.
And _he _gets the credit of it to this day.
He hadn't anything to do with it. Necessarily the scene of the real turning-point of my life (and of yours) was the Garden of Eden.
It was there that the first link was forged of the chain that was ultimately to lead to the emptying of me into the literary guild.
Adam's TEMPERAMENT was the first command the Deity ever issued to a human being on this planet.
And it was the only command Adam would NEVER be able to disobey.
It said, "Be weak, be water, be characterless, be cheaply persuadable.
The latter command, to let the fruit alone, was certain to be disobeyed.
Not by Adam himself, but by his _temperament_-which he did not create and had no authority over.
For the _temperament _is the man; the thing tricked out with clothes and named Man is merely its Shadow, nothing more.
The law of the tiger's temperament is, Thou shalt kill; the law of the sheep's temperament is Thou shalt not kill.
To issue later commands requiring the tiger to let the fat stranger alone, and requiring the sheep to imbue its hands in the blood of the lion is not worth while, for those commands _can'T_ be obeyed.
They would invite to violations of the law of _temperament_, which is supreme, and takes precedence of all other authorities.
I cannot help feeling disappointed in Adam and Eve.
That is, in their temperaments.
Not in _them_, poor helpless young creatures-afflicted with temperaments made out of butter; which butter was commanded to get into contact with fire and _be melted_.
What I cannot help wishing is, that Adam and EVE had been postponed, and Martin Luther and Joan of Arc put in their place-that splendid pair equipped with temperaments not made of butter, but of asbestos.
By neither sugary persuasions nor by hell fire could Satan have beguiled _them _to eat the apple.
There would have been results!
Indeed, yes. The apple would be intact today; there would be no human race; there would be no YOU; there would be no _me_.
In the hope that you are listening, and that you have confidence in me, I will proceed.
Dates are difficult things to acquire; and after they are acquired it is difficult to keep them in the head.
But they are very valuable.
They are like the cattle-pens of a ranch-they shut in the several brands of historical cattle, each within its own fence, and keep them from getting mixed together.
Dates are hard to remember because they consist of figures; figures are monotonously unstriking in appearance, and they don't take hold, they form no pictures, and so they give the eye no chance to help.
Pictures can make dates stick.
They can make nearly anything stick-particularly _if you make the pictures yourself_.
Indeed, that is the great point-make the pictures _yourself_.
I know about this from experience.
Thirty years ago I was delivering a memorized lecture every night, and every night I had to help myself with a page of notes to keep from getting myself mixed.
The notes consisted of beginnings of sentences, and were eleven in number, and they ran something like this: "_In that region the weather_-" "_at that time it was a custom_-" "_but in california one never heard_-" Eleven of them.
They initialed the brief divisions of the lecture and protected me against skipping.
Once I mislaid them; you will not be able to imagine the terrors of that evening.
I now saw that I must invent some other protection.
So I got ten of the initial letters by heart in their proper order-I, A, B, and so on-and I went on the platform the next night with these marked in ink on my ten finger-nails.
I kept track of the fingers for a while; then I lost it, and after that I was never quite sure which finger I had used last.
I couldn't lick off a letter after using it, for while they could have made success certain it would also have provoked too much curiosity.
There was curiosity enough without that.
In two minutes I made six pictures with a pen, and they did the work of the eleven catch-sentences, and did it perfectly.
I threw the pictures away as soon as they were made, for I was sure I could shut my eyes and see them any time.
That was a quarter of a century ago; the lecture vanished out of my head more than twenty years ago, but I could rewrite it from the pictures-for they remain.
Here are three of them: (Fig. 1). The first one is a haystack-below it a rattlesnake-and it told me where to begin to talk ranch-life in Carson Valley.
The second one told me where to begin to talk about a strange and violent wind that used to burst upon Carson City from the Sierra Nevadas every afternoon at two o'clock and try to blow the town away.
When a man is making a speech and you are to follow him don't jot down notes to speak from, jot down PICTURES.
Part of this fun--if you like to call it that--consisted in the memorizing of the accession dates of the thirty-seven personages who had ruled over England from the Conqueror down.
These little people found it a bitter, hard contract.
It was all dates, they all looked alike, and they wouldn't stick.
We were at the farm then.
From the house-porch the grounds sloped gradually down to the lower fence and rose on the right to the high ground where my small work-den stood.
A carriage-road wound through the grounds and up the hill.
The world had suddenly realized that while it was not noticing the Queen had passed Henry VIII., passed Henry VI. and Elizabeth, and gaining in length every day.
Her reign had entered the list of the long ones; everybody was interested now-it was watching a race.
Would she pass the long Edward?
There was a possibility of it.
Would she pass the long Henry?
The vase was William the Conqueror.
We put his name on it and his accession date, 1066.
And it lay exactly in front of the house, in the middle of the grounds.
The road had some great curves in it, but their gradual sweep was such that they were no mar to history.
Are your kings spaced off in your mind?
When you think of Richard III. and of James II. do the durations of their reigns seem about alike to you?
It isn't so to me; I always notice that there's a foot's difference.
When you think of Henry III. do you see a great long stretch of straight road?
I do; and just at the end where it joins on to Edward I.
I always see a small pear-bush with its green fruit hanging down.
When I think of the Commonwealth I see a shady little group of these small saplings which we called the oak parlor; when I think of George III.
They got the habit without trouble.
We pegged them down to the Hundred Years' War, then threw the idea aside, I do not now remember why.
After that we made the English pegs fence in European and American history as well as English, and that answered very well.
English and alien poets, statesmen, artists, heroes, battles, plagues, cataclysms, revolutions-we shoveled them all into the English fences according to their dates.
We gave Washington's birth to George II.'s pegs and his death to George III.'s; George II. got the Lisbon earthquake and George III. the Declaration of Independence.
And, besides, they had no talent for art, which is strange, for in other ways they are like me. But I will develop the picture plan now, hoping that you will be able to use it.
It will come good for indoors when the weather is bad and one cannot go outside and peg a road.
Let us imagine that the kings are a procession, and that they have come out of the Ark and down Ararat for exercise and are now starting back again up the zigzag road.
This will bring several of them into view at once, and each zigzag will represent the length of a king's reign. And so on.
You will have plenty of space, for by my project you will use the parlor wall.
You do not mark on the wall; that would cause trouble.
On each square draw a picture of a whale and write the dates and term of service.
By the time you have drawn twenty-one wales and written "William I.-1066-1087-twenty-one years" twenty-one times, those details will be your property; you cannot dislodge them from your memory with anything but dynamite.
I will make a sample for you to copy: (Fig. 3). I have got his chin up too high, but that is no matter; he is looking for Harold.
It may be that a whale hasn't that fin up there on his back, but I do not remember; and so, since there is a doubt, it is best to err on the safe side.
Otherwise you might seem to be continuing the other William, and that would be confusing and a damage.
It is quite right to make him small; he was only about a No. 11 whale, or along there somewhere; there wasn't room in him for his father's great spirit.
It is best to leave the barb the way it is, then every one will know it is a harpoon and attending to business.
Thus: (Fig. 6). You begin to understand now how this procession is going to look when it is on the wall.
The colored divisions will smartly show to the eye the difference in the length of the reigns and impress the proportions on the memory and the understanding. (Fig. 7.) Stephen of Blois comes next.
He requires nineteen two-inch squares of _yellow_ paper. (Fig. 8.) That is a steer.
The sound suggests the beginning of Stephen's name.
I choose it for that reason.
I can make a better steer than that when I am not excited.
But this one will do.
It is a good-enough steer for history.
The tail is defective, but it only wants straightening out. Next comes Henry II.
Give him thirty-five squares of _red _paper.
These hens must face west, like the former ones. (Fig. 9.) This hen differs from the other one.
Give him ten squares of _white _paper. (Fig. 10). That is a lion.
His office is to remind you of the lion-hearted Richard.
There is something the matter with his legs, but I do not quite know what it is, they do not seem right.
I think the hind ones are the most unsatisfactory; the front ones are well enough, though it would be better if they were rights and lefts. Next comes King John, and he was a poor circumstance.
He gave his realm to the Pope.
Let him have seventeen squares of _yellow _paper. (Fig. 11.) That creature is a jamboree.
It looks like a trademark, but that is only an accident and not intentional.
It is prehistoric and extinct.
It used to roam the earth in the Old Silurian times, and lay eggs and catch fish and climb trees and live on fossils; for it was of a mixed breed, which was the fashion then.
It was very fierce, and the Old Silurians were afraid of it, but this is a tame one.
Physically it has no representative now, but its mind has been transmitted.
We must make all the Henrys the same color; it will make their long reigns show up handsomely on the wall.
Among all the eight Henrys there were but two short ones.
A lucky name, as far as longevity goes. The reigns of six of the Henrys cover 227 years.
It might have been well to name all the royal princes Henry, but this was overlooked until it was too late. (Fig. 12.) This is the best one yet.
He is on his way (1265) to have a look at the first House of Commons in English history.
It was a monumental event, the situation of the House, and was the second great liberty landmark which the century had set up.
I have made Henry looking glad, but this was not intentional. Edward I. comes next; _light-brown_ paper, thirty-five squares. (Fig. 13.) That is an editor.
He is trying to think of a word.
He props his feet on the chair, which is the editor's way; then he can think better.
I do not care much for this one; his ears are not alike; still, editor suggests the sound of Edward, and he will do.
I could make him better if I had a model, but I made this one from memory.
But it is no particular matter; they all look alike, anyway.
They are conceited and troublesome, and don't pay enough.
Edward was the first really English king that had yet occupied the throne.
The editor in the picture probably looks just as Edward looked when it was first borne in upon him that this was so.
His whole attitude expressed gratification and pride mixed with stupefaction and astonishment. Edward II. now; twenty _blue _squares. (Fig. 14.) Another editor.
That thing behind his ear is his pencil.
Whenever he finds a bright thing in your manuscript he strikes it out with that. That does him good, and makes him smile and show his teeth, the way he is doing in the picture.
This one has just been striking out a smart thing, and now he is sitting there with his thumbs in his vest-holes, gloating.
They are full of envy and malice, editors are.
This picture will serve to remind you that Edward II. was the first English king who was _deposed_.
Upon demand, he signed his deposition himself.
He had found kingship a most aggravating and disagreeable occupation, and you can see by the look of him that he is glad he resigned.
He has put his blue pencil up for good now.
He had struck out many a good thing with it in his time. Edward III. next; fifty _red _squares. (Fig. 15.) This editor is a critic.
He has pulled out his carving-knife and his tomahawk and is starting after a book which he is going to have for breakfast.
This one's arms are put on wrong.
I did not notice it at first, but I see it now.
Somehow he has got his right arm on his left shoulder, and his left arm on the right shoulder, and this shows us the back of his hands in both instances.
It makes him left-handed all around, which is a thing which has never happened before, except perhaps in a museum.
It is an accident; you never know when it is coming.
Those snaky women were unthinkable, but inspiration secured them for us, thanks to goodness.
It is too late to reorganize this editor-critic now; we will leave him as he is.
He will serve to remind us. Richard II. next; twenty-two _white _squares. (Fig. 16.) We use the lion again because this is another Richard.
Like Edward II., he was _deposed_.
He is taking a last sad look at his crown before they take it away.
She is giving notice in the usual way.
You notice I am improving in the construction of hens.
At first I made them too much like other animals, but this one is orthodox.
I mention this to encourage you.
You will find that the more you practice the more accurate you will become.
I could always draw animals, but before I was educated I could not tell what kind they were when I got them done, but now I can.
Keep up your courage; it will be the same with you, although you may not think it.
This Henry died the year after Joan of Arc was born. Henry V.; nine _blue _squares. (Fig. 18) There you see him lost in meditation over the monument which records the amazing figures of the battle of Agincourt.
Also two great disasters: he lost France to Joan of Arc and he lost the throne and ended the dynasty which Henry IV. had started in business with such good prospects.
In the picture we see him sad and weary and downcast, with the scepter falling from his nerveless grasp.
When you get the reigns displayed upon the wall this one will be conspicuous and easily remembered.
It is the shortest one in English history except Lady Jane Grey's, which was only nine days.
You would think that this lion has two heads, but that is not so; one is only a shadow.
There would be shadows for the rest of him, but there was not light enough to go round, it being a dull day, with only fleeting sun-glimpses now and then.
Richard had a humped back and a hard heart, and fell at the battle of Bosworth.
He liked to sit on that kind of eggs on his own private account as well as the nation's, and hatch them out and count up the result.
When he died he left his heir 2,000,000 pounds, which was a most unusual fortune for a king to possess in those days.
Columbus's great achievement gave him the discovery-fever, and he sent Sebastian Cabot to the New World to search out some foreign territory for England.
That is Cabot's ship up there in the corner.
It is indicated by that thing over his head, which is a _last_-shoemaker's last. Mary; five squares of _black _paper. (Fig. 26.) The picture represents a burning martyr.
He is in back of the smoke. The first three letters of Mary's name and the first three of the word martyr are the same.
Martyrdom was going out in her day and martyrs were becoming scarcer, but she made several.
For this reason she is sometimes called Bloody Mary. This brings us to the reign of Elizabeth, after passing through a period of nearly five hundred years of England's history-492 to be exact.
I think you may now be trusted to go the rest of the way without further lessons in art or inspirations in the matter of ideas.
You have the scheme now, and something in the ruler's name or career will suggest the pictorial symbol.
The effort of inventing such things will not only help your memory, but will develop originality in art. See what it has done for me.
If you do not find the parlor wall big enough for all of England's history, continue it into the dining-room and into other rooms.
The news came to him at Kaltenleutgeben, a summer resort a little way out of Vienna.
To his friend, the Rev. Jos.
Twichell, he wrote: "That good and unoffending lady, the Empress, is killed by a madman, and I am living in the midst of world-history again.
The Queen's Jubilee last year, the invasion of the Reichsrath by the police, and now this murder, which will still be talked of and described and painted a thousand years from now.
The mourning is universal and genuine, the consternation is stupefying.
The Austrian Empire is being draped with black.
There appears no such reason for withholding its publication now. A.
P. The more one thinks of the assassination, the more imposing and tremendous the event becomes.
One must go back about two thousand years to find an instance to put with this one.
The oldest family of unchallenged descent in Christendom lives in Rome and traces its line back seventeen hundred years, but no member of it has been present in the earth when an empress was murdered, until now.
The murder of an empress then-even the assassination of Caesar himself-could not electrify the world as this murder has electrified it.
It was no longer a fresh event, it was a thing of the far past; it was not properly news, it was history.
But the world is enormous now, and prodigiously populated-that is one change; and another is the lightning swiftness of the flight of tidings, good and bad.
All the ironies are compacted in the answer.
And it was within the privileges and powers of this sarcasm upon the human race to reach up-up-up-and strike from its far summit in the social skies the world's accepted ideal of Glory and Might and Splendor and Sacredness!
It realizes to us what sorry shows and shadows we are.
Without our clothes and our pedestals we are poor things and much of a size; our dignities are not real, our pomps are shams.
Many are mad for money.
Perhaps it is not merely common, but universal.
In its mildest form it doubtless is universal.
This common madness can develop, by nurture, into a hunger for notoriety in one, for fame in another.
Anything to get notoriety; anything to set the village, or the township, or the city, or the State, or the nation, or the planet shouting, "Look-there he goes-that is the man!
Her tastes, her instincts, and her aspirations were all high and fine and all her life her heart and brain were busy with activities of a noble sort.
She had had bitter griefs, but they did not sour her spirit, and she had had the highest honors in the world's gift, but she went her simple way unspoiled.
She knew all ranks, and won them all, and made them her friends.
An English fisherman's wife said, "When a body was in trouble she didn't send her help, she brought it herself.
Crowns have adorned others, but she adorned her crowns. It was a swift celebrity the assassin achieved.
And it is marked by some curious contrasts.
Three hours later he was the one subject of conversation in the world, the gilded generals and admirals and governors were discussing him, all the kings and queens and emperors had put aside their other interests to talk about him.
It brings human dignity pretty low, and for a moment the thing is not quite realizable-but it is perfectly true.
I remember him well." THE CAPTAIN: "He was in my company.
I remember him well." THE SERGEANT: "Did I know him?
As well as I know you.
Why, every morning I used to-" etc., etc.; a glad, long story, told to devouring ears. THE LANDLADY: "Many's the time he boarded with me.
I can show you his very room, and the very bed he slept in. And the charcoal mark there on the wall-he made that.
My little Johnny saw him do it with his own eyes.
That has many crimes to answer for, but not this one, I think.
One may not attribute to this man a generous indignation against the wrongs done the poor; one may not dignify him with a generous impulse of any kind.
When he saw his photograph and said, "I shall be celebrated," he laid bare the impulse that prompted him.
It was a mere hunger for notoriety.
I think this verdict will not be popular "above.
If the deed was ordained from above, there is no rational way of making this prisoner even partially responsible for it, and the Genevan court cannot condemn him without manifestly committing a crime.
It is small and old and severely plain, plastered outside and whitewashed or painted, and with no ornament but a statue of a monk in a niche over the door, and above that a small black flag.
But in its crypt lie several of the great dead of the House of Habsburg, among them Maria Theresa and Napoleon's son, the Duke of Reichstadt.
Behind the vast plate-glass windows of the upper floors of a house on the corner one glimpsed terraced masses of fine-clothed men and women, dim and shimmery, like people under water.
Blazing uniforms flashed by him, making a sparkling contrast with his drooping ruin of moldy rags, but he took no notice; he was not there to grieve for a nation's disaster; he had his own cares, and deeper.
From two directions two long files of infantry came plowing through the pack and press in silence; there was a low, crisp order and the crowd vanished, the square save the sidewalks was empty, the private mourner was gone.
Another order, the soldiers fell apart and enclosed the square in a double-ranked human fence.
It was all so swift, noiseless, exact-like a beautifully ordered machine. It was noon, now.
Two hours of stillness and waiting followed.
Then carriages began to flow past and deliver the two or three hundred court personages and high nobilities privileged to enter the church.
Then the square filled up; not with civilians, but with army and navy officers in showy and beautiful uniforms.
They filled it compactly, leaving only a narrow carriage path in front of the church, but there was no civilian among them.
And it was better so; dull clothes would have marred the radiant spectacle.
It was a sea of flashing color all about, but these two groups were the high notes.
The green plumes were worn by forty or fifty Austrian generals, the group opposite them were chiefly Knights of Malta and knights of a German order.
At three-ten a procession of priests passes along, with crucifix.
At three-fifty-eight a waiting interval.
At four-twelve the head of the funeral procession comes into view at last.
First, a body of cavalry, four abreast, to widen the path.
Next, a great body of lancers, in blue, with gilt helmets.
Next, three six-horse mourning-coaches; outriders and coachmen in black, with cocked hats and white wigs.
Next, troops in splendid uniforms, red, gold, and white, exceedingly showy. Now the multitude uncover.
It was a day of contrasts. Twice the Empress entered Vienna in state.
La Bourboule-les-Bains, France-a village; time, the end of June, 1894.
I was in the one village in that early time; I am in the other now.
The landlord and the two village policemen stood their ground, and at last the mob was persuaded to go away and leave our Italians in peace.
Today four of the ringleaders have been sentenced to heavy punishment of a public sort-and are become local heroes, by consequence. That is the very mistake which was at first made in the Missourian village half a century ago.
The mistake was repeated and repeated-just as France is doing in these latter months. In our village we had our Ravochals, our Henrys, our Vaillants; and in a humble way our Cesario-I hope I have spelled this name wrong.
Fifty years ago we passed through, in all essentials, what France has been passing through during the past two or three years, in the matter of periodical frights, horrors, and shudderings. In several details the parallels are quaintly exact.
In that day, for a man to speak out openly and proclaim himself an enemy of negro slavery was simply to proclaim himself a madman.
For he was blaspheming against the holiest thing known to a Missourian, and could NOT be in his right mind.
He was a journeyman cooper, and worked in the big cooper-shop belonging to the great pork-packing establishment which was Marion City's chief pride and sole source of prosperity.
He was a New-Englander, a stranger.
Hardy was thirty years old, and a bachelor; pale, given to reverie and reading.
He was reserved, and seemed to prefer the isolation which had fallen to his lot.
He was treated to many side remarks by his fellows, but as he did not resent them it was decided that he was a coward. All of a sudden he proclaimed himself an abolitionist-straight out and publicly!
He said that negro slavery was a crime, an infamy.
For a moment the town was paralyzed with astonishment; then it broke into a fury of rage and swarmed toward the cooper-shop to lynch Hardy.
But the Methodist minister made a powerful speech to them and stayed their hands.
He proved to them that Hardy was insane and not responsible for his words; that no man _could _be sane and utter such words. So Hardy was saved.
Being insane, he was allowed to go on talking.
He was found to be good entertainment.
Several nights running he made abolition speeches in the open air, and all the town flocked to hear and laugh.
But all of a sudden the aspect of things changed.
Hardy crossed the river with the negro, and then came back to give himself up.
All this took time, for the Mississippi is not a French brook, like the Seine, the Loire, and those other rivulets, but is a real river nearly a mile wide.
The reader will have begun to perceive that this Methodist minister was a prompt man; a prompt man, with active hands and a good headpiece.
Williams was his name-Damon Williams; Damon Williams in public, Damnation Williams in private, because he was so powerful on that theme and so frequent. The excitement was prodigious.
The constable was the first man who had ever been killed in the town.
The event was by long odds the most imposing in the town's history.
It lifted the humble village into sudden importance; its name was in everybody's mouth for twenty miles around.
And so was the name of Robert Hardy-Robert Hardy, the stranger, the despised.
In a day he was become the person of most consequence in the region, the only person talked about.
As to those other coopers, they found their position curiously changed-they were important people, or unimportant, now, in proportion as to how large or how small had been their intercourse with the new celebrity.
The new man was an enterprising fellow, and he made the most of the tragedy.
Then he put up posters promising to devote his whole paper to matters connected with the great event-there would be a full and intensely interesting biography of the murderer, and even a portrait of him.
He was as good as his word.
He carved the portrait himself, on the back of a wooden type-and a terror it was to look at. It made a great commotion, for this was the first time the village paper had ever contained a picture.
The village was very proud.
The trial was published in the village paper, with fresh and still more trying pictures of the accused. Hardy was convicted, and hanged-a mistake.
People came from miles around to see the hanging; they brought cakes and cider, also the women and children, and made a picnic of the matter.
It was the largest crowd the village had ever seen.
The rope that hanged Hardy was eagerly bought up, in inch samples, for everybody wanted a memento of the memorable event. Martyrdom gilded with notoriety has its fascinations.
Within one week afterward four young lightweights in the village proclaimed themselves abolitionists!
In life Hardy had not been able to make a convert; everybody laughed at him; but nobody could laugh at his legacy.
The four swaggered around with their slouch-hats pulled down over their faces, and hinted darkly at awful possibilities.
The people were troubled and afraid, and showed it.
And they were stunned, too; they could not understand it.
Abolitionist" had always been a term of shame and horror; yet here were four young men who were not only not ashamed to bear that name, but were grimly proud of it.
Respectable young men they were, too-of good families, and brought up in the church.
Ed Smith, the printer's apprentice, nineteen, had been the head Sunday-school boy, and had once recited three thousand Bible verses without making a break.
Dick Savage, twenty, the baker's apprentice; Will Joyce, twenty-two, journeyman blacksmith; and Henry Taylor, twenty-four, tobacco-stemmer-were the other three.
They presently achieved the distinction of being denounced by names from the pulpit-which made an immense stir!
This was grandeur, this was fame.
They were envied by all the other young fellows now. This was natural.
They took a name. It was a secret name, and was divulged to no outsider; publicly they were simply the abolitionists.
They gave previous notice of the pilgrimage by small posters, and warned everybody to keep indoors and darken all houses along the route, and leave the road empty.
These warnings were obeyed, for there was a skull and crossbones at the top of the poster. When this kind of thing had been going on about eight weeks, a quite natural thing happened.
Everybody felt an uplift; life was breathed into their dead spirits; their courage rose and they began to feel like men again.
This was on a Saturday.
All day the new feeling grew and strengthened; it grew with a rush; it brought inspiration and cheer with it.
Midnight saw a united community, full of zeal and pluck, and with a clearly defined and welcome piece of work in front of it.
The best organizer and strongest and bitterest talker on that great Saturday was the Presbyterian clergyman who had denounced the original four from his pulpit-Rev. Hiram Fletcher-and he promised to use his pulpit in the public interest again now.
On the morrow he had revelations to make, he said-secrets of the dreadful society. But the revelations were never made.
At half past two in the morning the dead silence of the village was broken by a crashing explosion, and the town patrol saw the preacher's house spring in a wreck of whirling fragments into the sky.
The preacher was killed, together with a negro woman, his only slave and servant. The town was paralyzed again, and with reason.
That is a thing to make the bravest tremble and hold back. The cowed populace were afraid to go to the funeral.
The man who was to have had a packed church to hear him expose and denounce the common enemy had but a handful to see him buried.
The coroner's jury had brought in a verdict of "death by the visitation of God," for no witness came forward; if any existed they prudently kept out of the way.
Nobody wanted to see the terrible secret society provoked into the commission of further outrages.
Everybody wanted the tragedy hushed up, ignored, forgotten, if possible. And so there was a bitter surprise and an unwelcome one when Will Joyce, the blacksmith's journeyman, came out and proclaimed himself the assassin!
Plainly he was not minded to be robbed of his glory.
He made his proclamation, and stuck to it.
Stuck to it, and insisted upon a trial.
Here was an ominous thing; here was a new and peculiarly formidable terror, for a motive was revealed here which society could not hope to deal with successfully-_vanity_, thirst for notoriety.
If men were going to kill for notoriety's sake, and to win the glory of newspaper renown, a big trial, and a showy execution, what possible invention of man could discourage or deter them?
The town was in a sort of panic; it did not know what to do. However, the grand jury had to take hold of the matter-it had no choice.
It brought in a true bill, and presently the case went to the county court.
The trial was a fine sensation.
The prisoner was the principal witness for the prosecution.
It drew a vast crowd.
He went to his death breathing slaughter and charging his society to "avenge his murder.
If he knew anything of human nature he knew that to plenty of young fellows present in that great crowd he was a grand hero-and enviably situated. He was hanged.
Within a month from his death the society which he had honored had twenty new members, some of them earnest, determined men.
They did not court distinction in the same way, but they celebrated his martyrdom.
The crime which had been obscure and despised had become lofty and glorified. Such things were happening all over the country.
Wild-brained martyrdom was succeeded by uprising and organization.
Then, in natural order, followed riot, insurrection, and the wrack and restitutions of war.
It was bound to come, and it would naturally come in that way.
It has been the manner of reform since the beginning of the world. SWITZERLAND, THE CRADLE OF LIBERTY Interlaken, Switzerland, 1891. It is a good many years since I was in Switzerland last.
In that remote time there was only one ladder railway in the country.
That state of things is all changed.
There is no fatigue connected with the trip.
One arrives fresh in spirit and in person in the evening-no fret in his heart, no grime on his face, no grit in his hair, not a cinder in his eye.
The stranger's first feeling, when suddenly confronted by that towering and awful apparition wrapped in its shroud of snow, is breath-taking astonishment.
It is as if heaven's gates had swung open and exposed the throne. It is peaceful here and pleasant at Interlaken.
Nothing going on-at least nothing but brilliant life-giving sunshine.
There are floods and floods of that.
One may properly speak of it as "going on," for it is full of the suggestion of activity; the light pours down with energy, with visible enthusiasm.
This is a good atmosphere to be in, morally as well as physically.
Of late years the prying student of history has been delighting himself beyond measure over a wonderful find which he has made-to wit, that Tell did not shoot the apple from his son's head.
The deeds of Washington, the patriot, are the essential thing; the cherry-tree incident is of no consequence.
There have always been Tells in Switzerland-people who would not bow.
There was a sufficiency of them at Rutli; there were plenty of them at Murten; plenty at Grandson; there are plenty today.
Beyond this gateway arises the vast bulk of the Jungfrau, a spotless mass of gleaming snow, into the sky.
The gateway, in the dark-colored barrier, makes a strong frame for the great picture.
The somber frame and the glowing snow-pile are startlingly contrasted.
It is this frame which concentrates and emphasizes the glory of the Jungfrau and makes it the most engaging and beguiling and fascinating spectacle that exists on the earth.
There are many mountains of snow that are as lofty as the Jungfrau and as nobly proportioned, but they lack the frame.
They stand at large; they are intruded upon and elbowed by neighboring domes and summits, and their grandeur is diminished and fails of effect. It is a good name, Jungfrau-Virgin.
Nothing could be whiter; nothing could be purer; nothing could be saintlier of aspect.
Apparently it was a dream stuff, a work of the imagination, nothing real about it.
The tint was green, slightly varying shades of it, but mainly very dark.
The sun was down-as far as that barrier was concerned, but not for the Jungfrau, towering into the heavens beyond the gateway.
She was a roaring conflagration of blinding white. It is said the Fridolin (the old Fridolin), a new saint, but formerly a missionary, gave the mountain its gracious name.
He was an Irishman, son of an Irish king-there were thirty thousand kings reigning in County Cork alone in his time, fifteen hundred years ago.
It got so that they could not make a living, there was so much competition and wages got cut so.
Some of them were out of work months at a time, with wife and little children to feed, and not a crust in the place.
Indeed, they would have been obliged to emigrate or starve but for a fortunate idea of Prince Fridolin's, who started a labor-union, the first one in history, and got the great bulk of them to join it.
He thus won the general gratitude, and they wanted to make him emperor-emperor over them all-emperor of County Cork, but he said, No, walking delegate was good enough for him.
For behold! he was modest beyond his years, and keen as a whip.
You could sit down and make yourself easy, now.
He would take an ax and convert the rest of the nation himself.
Charlemagne was that kind of a walking delegate. Yes, there were great missionaries in those days, for the methods were sure and the rewards great.
We have no such missionaries now, and no such methods. But to continue the history of the first walking delegate, if you are interested.
I am interested myself because I have seen his relics in Sackingen, and also the very spot where he worked his great miracle-the one which won him his sainthood in the papal court a few centuries later.
To have seen these things makes me feel very near to him, almost like a member of the family, in fact.
He built a great cloister there for women and proceeded to teach in it and accumulate more land.
There were two wealthy brothers in the neighborhood, Urso and Landulph.
Urso died and Fridolin claimed his estates.
Landulph asked for documents and papers. Fridolin had none to show.
He said the bequest had been made to him by word of mouth.
Landulph suggested that he produce a witness and said it in a way which he thought was very witty, very sarcastic.
This shows that he did not know the walking delegate.
Fridolin was not disturbed. He said: "Appoint your court.
I will bring a witness." The court thus created consisted of fifteen counts and barons.
A day was appointed for the trial of the case.
On that day the judges took their seats in state, and proclamation was made that the court was ready for business.
Five minutes, ten minutes, fifteen minutes passed, and yet no Fridolin appeared.
Landulph rose, and was in the act of claiming judgment by default when a strange clacking sound was heard coming up the stairs.
It stopped before the chief judge and raised its bony arm aloft and began to speak, while all the assembly shuddered, for they could see the words leak out between its ribs.
In our day a skeleton would not be allowed to testify at all, for a skeleton has no moral responsibility, and its word could not be believed on oath, and this was probably one of them.
Most skeletons are not to be believed on oath, and this was probably one of them.
But by mid-afternoon some elevations which rise out of the western border of the desert, whose presence you perhaps had not detected or suspected up to that time, began to cast black shadows eastward across the gleaming surface.
At first there is only one shadow; later there are two.
Toward 4 P.M. the other day I was gazing and worshiping as usual when I chanced to notice that shadow No. 1 was beginning to take itself something of the shape of the human profile.
Oh, indeed yes; when you talk about your poor Roman and Egyptian day-before-yesterday antiquities, you should choose a time when the hoary Shadow Face of the Jungfrau is not by.
It antedates all antiquities known or imaginable; for it was here the world itself created the theater of future antiquities.
And it is the only witness with a human face that was there to see the marvel, and remains to us a memorial of it. By 4:40 P.M. the nose of the shadow is perfect and is beautiful.
The likeness is there, and is unmistakable.
I say fascinating, because if you once detect a human face produced on a great plan by unconscious nature, you never get tired of watching it.
At first you can't make another person see it at all, but after he has made it out once he can't see anything else afterward. The King of Greece is a man who goes around quietly enough when off duty.
Well, now, that is just astonishing!
Born there?" "No." "Do you speak Greek?" "Yes." "Now, ain't that strange!
I never expected to live to see that.
I mean how do you get your living?
What is your line of business?" "Well, I hardly know how to answer.
Of course I do a stroke of business if it falls in the way-" "Good!
I like that in you!
Go on." "I was only going to say I am off on my vacation now." "Well that's all right.
A man works all the better for a little let-up now and then.
Not that I've been used to having it myself; for I haven't.
I reckon this is my first.
Well, how do you get along, as a rule-pretty fair?" "I've a rather large family-" "There, that's it-big family and trying to raise them on a salary.
Now, what did you go to do that for?" "Well, I thought-" "Of course you did.
You were young and confident and thought you could branch out and make things go with a whirl, and here you are, you see! But never mind about that.
I'm not trying to discourage you.
Dear me! I've been just where you are myself!
You've got good grit; there's good stuff in you, I can see that.
You got a wrong start, that's the whole trouble.
But you hold your grip, and we'll see what can be done.
Your case ain't half as bad as it might be.
You are going to come out all right-I'm bail for that.
Boys and girls?" "My family?
Yes, some of them are boys-" "And the rest girls.
It's just as I expected.
But that's all right, and it's better so, anyway.
What are the boys doing-learning a trade?" "Well, no-I thought-" "It's a great mistake.
It's the biggest mistake you ever made.
You see that in your own case.
A man ought always to have a trade to fall back on.
Now, I was harness-maker at first.
Did that prevent me from becoming one of the biggest brewers in America?
Oh no. I always had the harness trick to fall back on in rough weather.
Now, if you had learned how to make harness-However, it's too late now; too late.
But it's no good plan to cry over spilt milk.
But as to the boys, you see-what's to become of them if anything happens to you?" "It has been my idea to let the eldest one succeed me-" "Oh, come!
Suppose the firm don't want him?" "I hadn't thought of that, but-" "Now, look here; you want to get right down to business and stop dreaming.
You are capable of immense things-man.
You can make a perfect success in life.
All you want is somebody to steady you and boost you along on the right road.
Do you own anything in the business?" "No-not exactly; but if I continue to give satisfaction, I suppose I can keep my-" "Keep your place-yes.
Well, don't you depend on anything of the kind. They'll bounce you the minute you get a little old and worked out; they'll do it sure.
Can't you manage somehow to get into the firm? That's the great thing, you know." "I think it is doubtful; very doubtful." "Um-that's bad-yes, and unfair, too.
He did a good deal of thinking, and the king waited with curiosity to see what the result was going to be.
Finally the German said: "My mind's made up.
You leave that crowd-you'll never amount to anything there.
In these old countries they never give a fellow a show. Yes, you come over to America-come to my place in Rochester; bring the family along.
You shall have a show in the business and the foremanship, besides.
George-you said your name was George?-I'll make a man of you.
I give you my word.
You've never had a chance here, but that's all going to change.
I'll give you a lift that'll make your hair curl!" AT THE SHRINE OF ST. WAGNER Bayreuth, Aug. 2d, 1891 It was at Nuremberg that we struck the inundation of music-mad strangers that was rolling down upon Bayreuth.
It had been long since we had seen such multitudes of excited and struggling people.
It took a good half-hour to pack them and pair them into the train-and it was the longest train we have yet seen in Europe.
Nuremberg had been witnessing this sort of experience a couple of times a day for about two weeks.
It gives one an impressive sense of the magnitude of this biennial pilgrimage.
For a pilgrimage is what it is.
Then if you are lucky you will get seats in the last row and lodgings in the fringe of the town.
If you stop to write you will get nothing.
There were plenty of people in Nuremberg when we passed through who had come on pilgrimage without first securing seats and lodgings.
We were of the wise, and had secured lodgings and opera seats months in advance. I am not a musical critic, and did not come here to write essays about the operas and deliver judgment upon their merits.
The little children of Bayreuth could do that with a finer sympathy and a broader intelligence than I.
I only care to bring four or five pilgrims to the operas, pilgrims able to appreciate them and enjoy them.
The great building stands all by itself, grand and lonely, on a high ground outside the town.
We were warned that if we arrived after four o'clock we should be obliged to pay two dollars and a half apiece extra by way of fine.
We saved that; and it may be remarked here that this is the only opportunity that Europe offers of saving money.
There was a big crowd in the grounds about the building, and the ladies' dresses took the sun with fine effect.
I do not mean to intimate that the ladies were in full dress, for that was not so.
There is an aisle on each side, but no aisle in the body of the house.
Each row of seats extends in an unbroken curve from one side of the house to the other.
There are seven entrance doors on each side of the theater and four at the butt, eighteen doors to admit and emit 1,650 persons.
The number of the particular door by which you are to enter the house or leave it is printed on your ticket, and you can use no door but that one.
Thus, crowding and confusion are impossible.
Not so many as a hundred people use any one door.
This is better than having the usual (and useless) elaborate fireproof arrangements.
It is the model theater of the world.
It can be emptied while the second hand of a watch makes its circuit.
Yet this causes no trouble, for everybody stands up until all the seats are full, and the filling is accomplished in a very few minutes.
The funereal rustling of dresses and the low buzz of conversation began to die swiftly down, and presently not the ghost of a sound was left.
This profound and increasingly impressive stillness endured for some time-the best preparation for music, spectacle, or speech conceivable.
It was exquisite; it was delicious.
But straightway thereafter, of course, came the singing, and it does seem to me that nothing can make a Wagner opera absolutely perfect and satisfactory to the untutored but to leave out the vocal parts.
I wish I could see a Wagner opera done in pantomime once.
Madame Wagner does not permit its representation anywhere but in Bayreuth.
Not always, but pretty often. If two of them would but put in a duet occasionally and blend the voices; but no, they don't do that.
It may be that he was deep, and only added the singing to his operas for the sake of the contrast it would make with the music.
It does seem the wrong name to apply to it.
Strictly described, it is a practicing of difficult and unpleasant intervals, mainly.
An ignorant person gets tired of listening to gymnastic intervals in the long run, no matter how pleasant they may be.
In both instances the theater was totally emptied.
People who had previously engaged tables in the one sole eating-house were able to put in their time very satisfactorily; the other thousand went hungry.
The opera was concluded at ten in the evening or a little later.
When we reached home we had been gone more than seven hours.
It seemed impossible, but it was true, for the statement came from people whose word was not to be doubted. And I gathered some further information.
Uhlic says Wagner despised "_jene plapperude music_," and therefore "runs, trills, and _Schnorkel _are discarded by him.
I don't know what a _Schnorkel _is, but now that I know it has been left out of these operas I never have missed so much in my life.
And Uhlic further says that Wagner's song is true: that it is "simply emphasized intoned speech.
That certainly describes it-in "Parsifal" and some of the other operas; and if I understand Uhlic's elaborate German he apologizes for the beautiful airs in "Tannhauser.
I resolved to think that out at all hazards. TUESDAY.-Yesterday they played the only operatic favorite I have ever had-an opera which has always driven me mad with ignorant delight whenever I have heard it-"Tannhauser.
I heard it first when I was a youth; I heard it last in the last German season in New York.
I will explain that this bugle-call is one of the pretty features here.
You see, the theater is empty, and hundreds of the audience are a good way off in the feeding-house; the first bugle-call is blown about a quarter of an hour before time for the curtain to rise.
Presently they do this over again.
They stopped dead in their tracks and began to gaze in a stupor of gratitude and satisfaction.
The lady presently saw that she must disappear or the doors would be closed upon these worshipers, so she returned to her box.
This daughter-in-law of an emperor was pretty; she had a kind face; she was without airs; she is known to be full of common human sympathies.
There are many kinds of princesses, but this kind is the most harmful of all, for wherever they go they reconcile people to monarchy and set back the clock of progress.
The valuable princes, the desirable princes, are the czars and their sort.
By their mere dumb presence in the world they cover with derision every argument that can be invented in favor of royalty by the most ingenious casuist. In his time the husband of this princess was valuable.
It is sacred to them; it is the holy of holies.
As soon as the filling of the house is about complete the standing multitude turn and fix their eyes upon the princely layout and gaze mutely and longingly and adoringly and regretfully like sinners looking into heaven.
They become rapt, unconscious, steeped in worship.
There is no spectacle anywhere that is more pathetic than this.
It is worth crossing many oceans to see.
Satisfy it-that is the word.
Hugo and the mastodon will still have a degree of intense interest thereafter when encountered, but never anything approaching the ecstasy of that first view.
The interest of a prince is different.
It may be envy, it may be worship, doubtless it is a mixture of both-and it does not satisfy its thirst with one view, or even noticeably diminish it.
Perhaps the essence of the thing is the value which men attach to a valuable something which has come by luck and not been earned.
A dollar picked up in the road is more satisfaction to you than the ninety-and-nine which you had to work for, and money won at faro or in stocks snuggles into your heart in the same way.
A prince picks up grandeur, power, and a permanent holiday and gratis support by a pure accident, the accident of birth, and he stands always before the grieved eye of poverty and obscurity a monumental representative of luck.
And then-supremest value of all-his is the only high fortune on the earth which is secure.
By common consent of all the nations and all the ages the most valuable thing in this world is the homage of men, whether deserved or undeserved.
It follows without doubt or question, then, that the most desirable position possible is that of a prince.
And I think it also follows that the so-called usurpations with which history is littered are the most excusable misdemeanors which men have committed.
To usurp a usurpation-that is all it amounts to, isn't it? A prince is not to us what he is to a European, of course.
We have not been taught to regard him as a god, and so one good look at him is likely to so nearly appease our curiosity as to make him an object of no greater interest the next time.
We want a fresh one.
But it is not so with the European.
I am quite sure of it.
The same old one will answer; he never stales.
Eighteen years ago I was in London and I called at an Englishman's house on a bleak and foggy and dismal December afternoon to visit his wife and married daughter by appointment.
I waited half an hour and then they arrived, frozen.
They had waited half an hour on the sidewalk, freezing with the crowd, but were disappointed at last-the Prince had changed his mind.
It was a stupefying statement, but one is obliged to believe the English, even when they say a thing like that.
I fumbled around for a remark, and got out this one: "I can't understand it at all.
If I had never seen General Grant I doubt if I would do that even to get a sight of him.
With a slight emphasis on the last word. Their blank faces showed that they wondered where the parallel came in. Then they said, blankly: "Of course not.
He is only a President." It is doubtless a fact that a prince is a permanent interest, an interest not subject to deterioration.
If you do, you will never cease to be thankful.
If you do not, you will find it a hard fight to save yourself from famishing in Bayreuth.
Bayreuth is merely a large village, and has no very large hotels or eating-houses.
The principal inns are the Golden Anchor and the Sun. At either of these places you can get an excellent meal-no, I mean you can go there and see other people get it.
There is no charge for this.
The town is littered with restaurants, but they are small and bad, and they are overdriven with custom.
You must secure a table hours beforehand, and often when you arrive you will find somebody occupying it.
We have had this experience.
We have had a daily scramble for life; and when I say we, I include shoals of people.
I have the impression that the only people who do not have to scramble are the veterans-the disciples who have been here before and know the ropes.
I think they arrive about a week before the first opera, and engage all the tables for the season.
My tribe had tried all kinds of places-some outside of the town, a mile or two-and have captured only nibblings and odds and ends, never in any instance a complete and satisfying meal.
No, the reverse. These odds and ends are going to serve as souvenirs of Bayreuth, and in that regard their value is not to be overestimated.
Photographs fade, bric-a-brac gets lost, busts of Wagner get broken, but once you absorb a Bayreuth-restaurant meal it is your possession and your property until the time comes to embalm the rest of you.
Some of these pilgrims here become, in effect, cabinets; cabinets of souvenirs of Bayreuth.
It is believed among scientists that you could examine the crop of a dead Bayreuth pilgrim anywhere in the earth and tell where he came from.
But I like this ballast.
If they feel a soft, whispery, mysterious feeling they are required to open out and let the public know it.
Operas are given only on Sundays, Mondays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays, with three days of ostensible rest per week, and two teams to do the four operas; but the ostensible rest is devoted largely to rehearsing.
It is said that the off days are devoted to rehearsing from some time in the morning till ten at night.
Are there two orchestras also?
It is quite likely, since there are one hundred and ten names in the orchestra list. Yesterday the opera was "Tristan and Isolde.
I have seen all sorts of audiences-at theaters, operas, concerts, lectures, sermons, funerals-but none which was twin to the Wagner audience of Bayreuth for fixed and reverential attention.
Absolute attention and petrified retention to the end of an act of the attitude assumed at the beginning of it.
You detect no movement in the solid mass of heads and shoulders. You seem to sit with the dead in the gloom of a tomb.
Every seat is full in the first act; there is not a vacant one in the last.
If a man would be conspicuous, let him come here and retire from the house in the midst of an act.
Here the Wagner audience dress as they please, and sit in the dark and worship in silence.
At the Metropolitan in New York they sit in a glare, and wear their showiest harness; they hum airs, they squeak fans, they titter, and they gabble all the time.
In some of the boxes the conversation and laughter are so loud as to divide the attention of the house with the stage.
These devotees would worship in an atmosphere of devotion. It is only here that they can find it without fleck or blemish or any worldly pollution.
In this remote village there are no sights to see, there is no newspaper to intrude the worries of the distant world, there is nothing going on, it is always Sunday.
This opera of "Tristan and Isolde" last night broke the hearts of all witnesses who were of the faith, and I know of some who have heard of many who could not sleep after it, but cried the night away.
I feel strongly out of place here.
I have never seen anything like this before.
I have never seen anything so great and fine and real as this devotion. FRIDAY.-Yesterday's opera was "Parsifal" again.
The others went and they show marked advance in appreciation; but I went hunting for relics and reminders of the Margravine Wilhelmina, she of the imperishable "Memoirs.
I am properly grateful to her for her (unconscious) satire upon monarchy and nobility, and therefore nothing which her hand touched or her eye looked upon is indifferent to me.
I am her pilgrim; the rest of this multitude here are Wagner's. TUESDAY.-I have seen my last two operas; my season is ended, and we cross over into Bohemia this afternoon.
I was supposing that my musical regeneration was accomplished and perfected, because I enjoyed both of these operas, singing and all, and, moreover, one of them was "Parsifal," but the experts have disenchanted me.
The private knowledge of this fact has saved me from going to pieces with enthusiasm in front of many and many a chromo.
Doctor Osler is charged with saying so.
Maybe he said it, maybe he didn't; I don't know which it is.
But if he said it, I can point him to a case which proves his rule.
Proves it by being an exception to it.
To this place I nominate Mr. Howells. I read his _Venetian Days_ about forty years ago.
I compare it with his paper on Machiavelli in a late number of _Harper_, and I cannot find that his English has suffered any impairment.
For forty years his English has been to me a continual delight and astonishment.
In the sustained exhibition of certain great qualities-clearness, compression, verbal exactness, and unforced and seemingly unconscious felicity of phrasing-he is, in my belief, without his peer in the English-writing world. _sustained_.
He seems to be almost always able to find that elusive and shifty grain of gold, the _right word._ Others have to put up with approximations, more or less frequently; he has better luck.
To me, the others are miners working with the gold-pan-of necessity some of the gold washes over and escapes; whereas, in my fancy, he is quicksilver raiding down a riffle-no grain of the metal stands much chance of eluding him.
Born to him, no doubt.
All in shining good order in the beginning, all extraordinary; and all just as shining, just as extraordinary today, after forty years of diligent wear and tear and use.
I do not mean examine it in a bird's-eye way; I mean search it, study it.
And, of course, read it aloud.
The Machiavelli whom he depicts does not cease to be politically a republican and socially a just man because he holds up an atrocious despot like Caesar Borgia as a mirror for rulers.
What Machiavelli beheld round him in Italy was a civic disorder in which there was oppression without statecraft, and revolt without patriotism.
Machiavelli was no less honest when he honored the diabolical force of Caesar Borgia than Carlyle was when at different times he extolled the strong man who destroys liberty in creating order.
After reading it several times aloud, one perceives that a good deal of matter is crowded into that small space.
We do not notice it at first.
We get the effect, it goes straight home to us, but we do not know why.
He is not more felicitous in concreting abstractions now than he was in translating, then, the visions of the eyes of flesh into words that reproduced their forms and colors: _In Venetian streets they give the fallen snow no rest.
But the snow continued to fall, and through the twilight of the descending flakes all this toil and encounter looked like that weary kind of effort in dreams, when the most determined industry seems only to renew the task.
The lofty crest of the bell-tower was hidden in the folds of falling snow, and I could no longer see the golden angel upon its summit.
I don't think I was ever in a street before where quite so many professional ladies, with English surnames, preferred Madam to Mrs. on their door-plates.
And the poor old place has such a desperately conscious air of going to the deuce.
Every house seems to wince as you go by, and button itself up to the chin for fear you should find out it had no shirt on-so to speak.
In their poverty they work these sorry things to the bone.
They say: "... replied Alfred, flipping the ash from his cigar." (This explains nothing; it only wastes space.) "... responded Richard, with a laugh." (There was nothing to laugh about; there never is.
This makes the reader sad.) "... murmured Gladys, blushing." (This poor old shop-worn blush is a tiresome thing.
We get so we would rather Gladys would fall out of the book and break her neck than do it again.
She is always doing it, and usually irrelevantly.
Whenever it is her turn to murmur she hangs out her blush; it is the only thing she's got.
In a little while we hate her, just as we do Richard.) "... repeated Evelyn, bursting into tears." (This kind keep a book damp all the time.
They can't say a thing without crying.
They cry so much about nothing that by and by when they have something to cry ABOUT they have gone dry; they sob, and fetch nothing; we are not moved.
We are only glad.) They gravel me, these stale and overworked stage directions, these carbon films that got burnt out long ago and cannot now carry any faintest thread of light.
But I am friendly to Mr. Howells's stage directions; more friendly to them than to any one else's, I think.
They are done with a competent and discriminating art, and are faithful to the requirements of a stage direction's proper and lawful office, which is to inform.
It is mainly the repetition over and over again, by the third-rates, of worn and commonplace and juiceless forms that makes their novels such a weariness and vexation to us, I think.
I always notice stage directions, because they fret me and keep me trying to get out of their way, just as the automobiles do.
At first; then by and by they become monotonous and I get run over. Mr. Howells has done much work, and the spirit of it is as beautiful as the make of it.
I have held him in admiration and affection so many years that I know by the number of those years that he is old now; but his heart isn't, nor his pen; and years do not count.
This remark in passing, and by way of text; now I come to what I was going to say. I have just now fallen upon a darling literary curiosity.
It is a little book, a manuscript compilation, and the compiler sent it to me with the request that I say whether I think it ought to be published or not.
Therefore I will print some extracts from the book, in the hope that they may make converts to my judgment that the volume has merit which entitles it to publication. As to its character.
Every one has sampled "English as She is Spoke" and "English as She is Wrote"; this little volume furnishes us an instructive array of examples of "English as She is Taught"-in the public schools of-well, this country.
The collection is made by a teacher in those schools, and all the examples in it are genuine; none of them have been tampered with, or doctored in any way.
The subjects touched upon are fifteen in number: I.
Metaphysics. You perceive that the poor little young idea has taken a shot at a good many kinds of game in the course of the book.
Here are some quaint definitions of words.
The product is the result. Right you are.
In the matter of geography this little book is unspeakably rich.
The questions do not appear to have applied the microscope to the subject, as did those quoted by Professor Ravenstein; still, they proved plenty difficult enough without that.
I have had glimpses of its meaning, in moments when I was not as ignorant with weariness as usual, but this is the first time the whole spacious idea of it ever filtered in sight.
The date is there, and it is there to stay.
And it is always at hand, always deliverable at a moment's notice.
But the Fact that belongs with it?
That is quite another matter.
Only the date itself is familiar and sure: its vast Fact has failed of lodgment.
It would appear that whenever you ask a public-school pupil when a thing-anything, no matter what-happened, and he is in doubt, he always rips out his 1492.
He applies it to everything, from the landing of the ark to the introduction of the horse-car.
His remains were taken to the cathedral in Havana. Gorilla warfare was where men rode on gorillas. John Brown was a very good insane man who tried to get fugitives slaves into Virginia.
He captured all the inhabitants, but was finally conquered and condemned to his death.
The confederasy was formed by the fugitive slaves. Alfred the Great reigned 872 years.
His birthday was November 1883.
He was once a Pope.
He lived at the time of the Rebellion of Worms. Julius Caesar is noted for his famous telegram dispatch I came I saw I conquered. Julius Caesar was really a very great man.
A sample or two may be found not amiss: Bracebridge Hall was written by Henry Irving. Snow Bound was written by Peter Cooper. The House of the Seven Gables was written by Lord Bryant. Edgar A.
I have space for but a trifling few of the results: Lord Byron was the son of an heiress and a drunken man. Wm.
Wordsworth wrote the Barefoot Boy and Imitations on Immortality. Gibbon wrote a history of his travels in Italy.
As follows: The Constitution of the United States is that part of the book at the end which nobody reads. And here she rises once more and untimely.
It would be as useful to cram him with brickbats; they would at least stay.
In a town in the interior of New York, a few years ago, a gentleman set forth a mathematical problem and proposed to give a prize to every public-school pupil who should furnish the correct solution of it.
Twenty-two of the brightest boys in the public schools entered the contest.
The problem was not a very difficult one for pupils of their mathematical rank and standing, yet they all failed-by a hair-through one trifling mistake or another.
Some searching questions were asked, when it turned out that these lads were as glib as parrots with the "rules," but could not reason out a single rule or explain the principle underlying it.
Their memories had been stocked, but not their understandings.
It was a case of brickbat culture, pure and simple. There are several curious "compositions" in the little book, and we must make room for one.
They cry if they see a cow in a far distance and are afraid of guns.
They stay at home all the time and go to church on Sunday.
They are always funy and making fun of boy's hands and they say how dirty.
I pity them poor things.
They make fun of boys and then turn round and love them.
I dont beleave they ever kiled a cat or anything.
They look out every nite and say oh ant the moon lovely.
It seemed to me to merely propose to substitute one inadequacy for another; a sort of patching and plugging poor old dental relics with cement and gold and porcelain paste; what was really wanted was a new set of teeth.
That is to say, a new _alphabet_. The heart of our trouble is with our foolish alphabet.
It doesn't know how to spell, and can't be taught.
In this it is like all other alphabets except one-the phonographic.
That is the only competent alphabet in the world.
It can spell and correctly pronounce any word in our language. That admirable alphabet, that brilliant alphabet, that inspired alphabet, can be learned in an hour or two.
In a week the student can learn to write it with some little facility, and to read it with considerable ease.
I mean _simply _the alphabet; simply the consonants and the vowels-I don't mean any _reductions _or abbreviations of them, such as the shorthand writer uses in order to get compression and speed.
No, I would _spell every word out._ I will insert the alphabet here as I find it in Burnz's Phonic Shorthand. (Figure 1) It is arranged__ on the basis of Isaac Pitman's _Phonography_.
Isaac Pitman was the originator and father of scientific phonography.
It is used throughout the globe.
It was a memorable invention.
He made it public seventy-three years ago.
The firm of Isaac Pitman & Sons, New York, still exists, and they continue the master's work. What should we gain? First of all, we could spell _definitely_-and correctly-any word you please, just by the _sound _of it.
We can't do that with our present alphabet.
For instance, take a simple, every-day word _phthisis_.
Thus: (Figure 5) a stroke down; a stroke up; a second stroke down; a second stroke up; a final stroke down.
But never mind about the connecting strokes-let them go.
Result: it is twenty-four words per minute.
I don't mean composing; I mean _copying_.
There isn't any definite composing-gait. Very well, my copying-gait is 1,440 words per hour-say 1,500.
If I could use the phonographic character with facility I could do the 1,500 in twenty minutes.
I could do nine hours' copying in three hours; I could do three years' copying in one year.
Also, if I had a typewriting machine with the phonographic alphabet on it-oh, the miracles I could do! I am not pretending to write that character well.
I have never had a lesson, and I am copying the letters from the book.
I think it is graceful and would look comely in print.
And consider-once more, I beg-what a labor-saver it is!
Ten pen-strokes with the one system to convey those three words above, and thirty-three by the other! (Figure 7) I mean, in SOME ways, not in all.
I suppose I might go so far as to say in most ways, and be within the facts, but never mind; let it go at _some_.
Well, it will improve him.
When they get through and have reformed him all they can by their system he will be only HALF drunk.
Above that condition their system can never lift him.
And this is true of hieroglyphics, as well.
There is something pleasant and engaging about the mathematical signs when we do not understand them.
You can write three times as many words in a minute with it as you can write with our alphabet.
And so, in a way, it _is _properly a shorthand.
It has a pleasant look, too; a beguiling look, an inviting look.
I will write something in it, in my rude and untaught way: (Figure 9) Even when _I_ do it it comes out prettier than it does in Simplified Spelling.
For a time it stood.
But only for a time.
But now, at last, came Rawlinson, the youngest of all the scholars, with a translation which was immediately and universally recognized as being the correct version, and his name became famous in a day.
The augurs could read entrails as easily as a modern child can read coarse print.
Roman history is full of the marvels of interpretation which these extraordinary men performed.
These strange and wonderful achievements move our awe and compel our admiration. Those men could pierce to the marrow of a mystery instantly.
If the Rosetta-stone idea had been introduced it would have defeated them, but entrails had no embarrassments for them.
Entrails have gone out, now-entrails and dreams.
138. "Some time or other.
One of them appeared just before Caesar Augustus was born, and was most poetic and touching and romantic in its feelings and aspects.
It was dreamed by Caesar Augustus's mother, and interpreted at the usual rates: Atia, before her delivery, dreamed that her bowels stretched to the stars and expanded through the whole circuit of heaven and earth.-_Suetonius_, p.
139. That was in the augur's line, and furnished him no difficulties, but it would have taken Rawlinson and Champollion fourteen years to make sure of what it meant, because they would have been surprised and dizzy.
Caesar Augustus's education received this final polish.
141. "Indubitable" is a strong word, but no doubt it was justified, if the livers were really turned that way.
He accomplished his crime, and Henry of Huntington, a priest of high degree, mourns over it in his Chronicle.
These unspeakable conditions continued during nineteen years.
Then Stephen died as comfortably as any man ever did, and was honorably buried.
It makes one pity the poor Archbishop, and wish that he, too, could have been let off as leniently.
How did Henry of Huntington know that the Archbishop was sent to his grave by judgment of God for consecrating Stephen?
His was probably the most uninspiring funeral that is set down in history.
There is not a detail about it that is attractive.
He is evidently puzzled, but he does not say anything.
I think it is often apparent that he is pained by these discrepancies, but loyally tries his best not to show it.
When he cannot praise, he delivers himself of a silence so marked that a suspicious person could mistake it for suppressed criticism.
However, he has plenty of opportunities to feel contented with the way things go-his book is full of them. King David of Scotland... under color of religion caused his followers to deal most barbarously with the English.
For the Almighty was offended at them and their strength was rent like a cobweb. Offended at them for what?
For committing those fearful butcheries?
No, for that was the common custom on both sides, and not open to criticism.
Then was it for doing the butcheries "under cover of religion"?
No, that was not it; religious feeling was often expressed in that fervent way all through those old centuries.
The truth is, He was not offended at "them" at all; He was only offended at their king, who had been false to an oath.
Then why did not He put the punishment upon the king instead of upon "them"?
It is a difficult question.
Robert Marmion was one, Godfrey de Mandeville the other.
Robert Marmion, issuing forth against the enemy, was slain under the walls of the monastery, being the only one who fell, though he was surrounded by his troops.
Dying excommunicated, he became subject to death everlasting.
In like manner Earl Godfrey was singled out among his followers, and shot with an arrow by a common foot-soldier.
He made light of the wound, but he died of it in a few days, under excommunication.
See here the like judgment of God, memorable through all ages! This exaltation jars upon me; not because of the death of the men, for they deserved that, but because it is death eternal, in white-hot fire and flame.
It makes my flesh crawl.
I have not known more than three men, or perhaps four, in my whole lifetime, whom I would rejoice to see writhing in those fires for even a year, let alone forever.
I believe I would relent before the year was up, and get them out if I could.
Henry of Huntington has been watching Godfrey and Marmion for nearly seven hundred and fifty years, now, but I couldn't do it, I know I couldn't.
I am soft and gentle in my nature, and I should have forgiven them seventy-and-seven times, long ago.
And I think God has; but this is only an opinion, and not authoritative, like Henry of Huntington's interpretations.
I could learn to interpret, but I have never tried; I get so little time. All through his book Henry exhibits his familiarity with the intentions of God, and with the reasons for his intentions.
Sometimes a man offends the Deity with a crime, and is punished for it thirty years later; meantime he has committed a million other crimes: no matter, Henry can pick out the one that brought the worms.
Worms were generally used in those days for the slaying of particularly wicked people.
This has gone out, now, but in old times it was a favorite.
It always indicated a case of "wrath.
400.) It was probably an alligator, but we cannot tell; we only know it was a particular breed, and only used to convey wrath.
Some authorities think it was an ichthyosaurus, but there is much doubt. However, one thing we do know; and that is that that worm had been due years and years.
What was to be gained by it?
Did Henry of Huntington really know his facts, or was he only guessing?
Sometimes I am half persuaded that he is only a guesser, and not a good one.
This is really no improvement on the work of the Roman augurs. CONCERNING TOBACCO (Written about 1893; not before published) As concerns tobacco, there are many superstitions.
And the chiefest is this-that there is a _standard _governing the matter, whereas there is nothing of the kind.
Each man's own preference is the only standard for him, the only one which he can accept, the only one which can command him.
He thinks he has, but he hasn't.
He thinks he can tell what he regards as a good cigar from what he regards as a bad one-but he can't. He goes by the brand, yet imagines he goes by the flavor.
Me, who never learned to smoke, but always smoked; me, who came into the world asking for a light. No one can tell me what is a good cigar-for me.
I am the only judge. People who claim to know say that I smoke the worst cigars in the world.
They bring their own cigars when they come to my house.
They betray an unmanly terror when I offer them a cigar; they tell lies and hurry away to meet engagements which they have not made when they are threatened with the hospitalities of my box.
Now then, observe what superstition, assisted by a man's reputation, can do.
I was to have twelve personal friends to supper one night.
One of them was as notorious for costly and elegant cigars as I was for cheap and devilish ones.
I called at his house and when no one was looking borrowed a double handful of his very choicest; cigars which cost him forty cents apiece and bore red-and-gold labels in sign of their nobility.
I removed the labels and put the cigars into a box with my favorite brand on it-a brand which those people all knew, and which cowed them as men are cowed by an epidemic.
All except one-that one lay in the plate of the man from whom I had cabbaged the lot.
One or two whiffs was all he could stand.
He told me afterward that some day I would get shot for giving people that kind of cigars to smoke. Am I certain of my own standard?
Perfectly; yes, absolutely-unless somebody fools me by putting my brand on some other kind of cigar; for no doubt I am like the rest, and know my cigar by the brand instead of by the flavor.
However, my standard is a pretty wide one and covers a good deal of territory.
To me, almost any cigar is good that nobody else will smoke, and to me almost all cigars are bad that other people consider good.
Nearly any cigar will do me, except a Havana.
People think they hurt my feelings when they come to my house with their life preservers on-I mean, with their own cigars in their pockets.
It is an error; I take care of myself in a similar way.
I brought cigars with me, the last time; I will not do that any more.
In Italy, as in France, the Government is the only cigar-peddler.
Italy has three or four domestic brands: the Minghetti, the Trabuco, the Virginia, and a very coarse one which is a modification of the Virginia.
The Minghettis are large and comely, and cost three dollars and sixty cents a hundred; I can smoke a hundred in seven days and enjoy every one of them.
The Trabucos suit me, too; I don't remember the price.
But one has to learn to like the Virginia, nobody is born friendly to it.
It looks like a rat-tail file, but smokes better, some think.
It has a straw through it; you pull this out, and it leaves a flue, otherwise there would be no draught, not even as much as there is to a nail.
Some prefer a nail at first. However, I like all the French, Swiss, German, and Italian domestic cigars, and have never cared to inquire what they are made of; and nobody would know, anyhow, perhaps.
There is even a brand of European smoking-tobacco that I like.
It is a brand used by the Italian peasants.
It is loose and dry and black, and looks like tea-grounds. When the fire is applied it expands, and climbs up and towers above the pipe, and presently tumbles off inside of one's vest.
The tobacco itself is cheap, but it raises the insurance.
It is as I remarked in the beginning-the taste for tobacco is a matter of superstition.
There are no standards-no real standards.
Each man's preference is the only standard for him, the only one which he can accept, the only one which can command him. THE BEE It was Maeterlinck who introduced me to the bee.
I mean, in the psychical and in the poetical way.
I had had a business introduction earlier.
It was when I was a boy.
It is strange that I should remember a formality like that so long; it must be nearly sixty years. Bee scientists always speak of the bee as she.
It is because all the important bees are of that sex.
In the hive there is one married bee, called the queen; she has fifty thousand children; of these, about one hundred are sons; the rest are daughters.
Some of the daughters are young maids, some are old maids, and all are virgins and remain so. Every spring the queen comes out of the hive and flies away with one of her sons and marries him.
The honeymoon lasts only an hour or two; then the queen divorces her husband and returns home competent to lay two million eggs.
She must always have that many children on hand and efficient during the busy season, which is summer, or winter would catch the community short of food.
These girls are kept by themselves, and are regally fed and tended from birth.
No other bees get such fine food as they get, or live such a high and luxurious life.
By consequence they are larger and longer and sleeker than their working sisters.
And they have a curved sting, shaped like a scimitar, while the others have a straight one. A common bee will sting any one or anybody, but a royalty stings royalties only.
A common bee will sting and kill another common bee, for cause, but when it is necessary to kill the queen other ways are employed.
When a queen has grown old and slack and does not lay eggs enough one of her royal daughters is allowed to come to attack her, the rest of the bees looking on at the duel and seeing fair play.
It is a duel with the curved stings.
I do not know why they have done this, but I think it is from dishonest motives.
Why, the innumerable facts brought to light by their own painstaking and exhaustive experiments prove that if there is a master fool in the world, it is the bee.
That seems to settle it. But that is the way of the scientist.
When I discovered that the bee was human I wrote about it to all those scientists whom I have just mentioned.
For evasions, I have seen nothing to equal the answers I got. After the queen, the personage next in importance in the hive is the virgin.
The virgins are fifty thousand or one hundred thousand in number, and they are the workers, the laborers.
No work is done, in the hive or out of it, save by them.
A bee that has been trained to one of the many and various industries of the concern doesn't know how to exercise any other, and would be offended if asked to take a hand in anything outside of her profession.
She is as human as a cook; and if you should ask the cook to wait on the table, you know what would happen.
Cooks will play the piano if you like, but they draw the line there.
In my time I have asked a cook to chop wood, and I know about these things. Even the hired girl has her frontiers; true, they are vague, they are ill-defined, even flexible, but they are there.
This is not conjecture; it is founded on the absolute.
You ask the butler to wash the dog.
It is just as I say; there is much to be learned in these ways, without going to books.
Books are very well, but books do not cover the whole domain of esthetic human culture.
Pride of profession is one of the boniest bones in existence, if not the boniest.
Without doubt it is so in the hive. TAMING THE BICYCLE (Written about 1893; not before published) In the early eighties Mark Twain learned to ride one of the old high-wheel bicycles of that period.
He wrote an account of his experience, but did not offer it for publication.
The form of bicycle he rode long ago became antiquated, but in the humor of his pleasantry is a quality which does not grow old. A.
I I thought the matter over, and concluded I could do it.
So I went down and bought a barrel of Pond's Extract and a bicycle.
The Expert came home with me to instruct me.
We chose the back yard, for the sake of privacy, and went to work. Mine was not a full-grown bicycle, but only a colt-a fifty-inch, with the pedals shortened up to forty-eight-and skittish, like any other colt.
The Expert explained the thing's points briefly, then he got on its back and rode around a little, to show me how easy it was to do.
He said that the dismounting was perhaps the hardest thing to learn, and so we would leave that to the last.
But he was in error there.
He found, to his surprise and joy, that all that he needed to do was to get me on to the machine and stand out of the way; I could get off, myself.
Although I was wholly inexperienced, I dismounted in the best time on record.
He was on that side, shoving up the machine; we all came down with a crash, he at the bottom, I next, and the machine on top. We examined the machine, but it was not in the least injured.
Yet the Expert assured me that it was true; in fact, the examination proved it.
I was partly to realize, then, how admirably these things are constructed.
We applied some Pond's Extract, and resumed.
The Expert got on the _other _side to shove up this time, but I dismounted on that side; so the result was as before. The machine was not hurt.
We oiled ourselves up again, and resumed. This time the Expert took up a sheltered position behind, but somehow or other we landed on him again. He was full of surprised admiration; said it was abnormal.
She was all right, not a scratch on her, not a timber started anywhere.
I said it was wonderful, while we were greasing up, but he said that when I came to know these steel spider-webs I would realize that nothing but dynamite could cripple them.
Then he limped out to position, and we resumed once more.
This time the Expert took up the position of short-stop, and got a man to shove up behind.
In a few more days I was quite sound.
I attribute this to my prudence in always dismounting on something soft.
Some recommend a feather bed, but I think an Expert is better. The Expert got out at last, brought four assistants with him.
It was a good idea.
Against nature, but not against the laws of nature.
I perceived by this how radically and grotesquely wrong had been the life-long education of my body and members.
They were steeped in ignorance; they knew nothing-nothing which it could profit them to know.
For instance, if I found myself falling to the right, I put the tiller hard down the other way, by a quite natural impulse, and so violated a law, and kept on going down.
The law required the opposite thing-the big wheel must be turned in the direction in which you are falling.
It is hard to believe this, when you are told it.
And not merely hard to believe it, but impossible; it is opposed to all your notions.
And it is just as hard to do it, after you do come to believe it.
Believing it, and knowing by the most convincing proof that it is true, does not help it: you can't any more DO it than you could before; you can neither force nor persuade yourself to do it at first.
The intellect has to come to the front, now.
It has to teach the limbs to discard their old education and adopt the new. The steps of one's progress are distinctly marked.
At the end of each lesson he knows he has acquired something, and he also knows what that something is, and likewise that it will stay with him.
It is not like studying German, where you mull along, in a groping, uncertain way, for thirty years; and at last, just as you think you've got it, they spring the subjunctive on you, and there you are.
No-and I see now, plainly enough, that the great pity about the German language is, that you can't fall off it and hurt yourself.
There is nothing like that feature to make you attend strictly to business.
But I also see, by what I have learned of bicycling, that the right and only sure way to learn German is by the bicycling method.
You do it in this way: you hop along behind it on your right foot, resting the other on the mounting-peg, and grasping the tiller with your hands.
It certainly does sound exceedingly easy; but it isn't.
I don't know why it isn't but it isn't.
At the end of this twelve working-hours' apprenticeship I was graduated-in the rough.
I was pronounced competent to paddle my own bicycle without outside help.
It seems incredible, this celerity of acquirement.
It takes considerably longer than that to learn horseback-riding in the rough. Now it is true that I could have learned without a teacher, but it would have been risky for me, because of my natural clumsiness.
There are those who imagine that the unlucky accidents of life-life's "experiences"-are in some way useful to us.
I wish I could find out how.
I never knew one of them to happen twice.
They always change off and swap around and catch you on your inexperienced side.
But that would not suit him; he would be one of the self-taught kind that go by experience; he would want to examine for himself.
However, get a teacher; it saves much time and Pond's Extract. Before taking final leave of me, my instructor inquired concerning my physical strength, and I was able to inform him that I hadn't any.
He said that that was a defect which would make up-hill wheeling pretty difficult for me at first; but he also said the bicycle would soon remove it.
The contrast between his muscles and mine was quite marked. He wanted to test mine, so I offered my biceps-which was my best.
It almost made him smile.
He said, "It is pulpy, and soft, and yielding, and rounded; it evades pressure, and glides from under the fingers; in the dark a body might think it was an oyster in a rag.
Perhaps this made me look grieved, for he added, briskly: "Oh, that's all right, you needn't worry about that; in a little while you can't tell it from a petrified kidney.
Just go right along with your practice; you're all right." Then he left me, and I started out alone to seek adventures.
You don't really have to seek them-that is nothing but a phrase-they come to you. I chose a reposeful Sabbath-day sort of a back street which was about thirty yards wide between the curbstones.
In place of this I had some other support.
This was a boy, who was perched on a gate-post munching a hunk of maple sugar. He was full of interest and comment.
The first time I failed and went down he said that if he was me he would dress up in pillows, that's what he would do.
The next time I went down he advised me to go and learn to ride a tricycle first.
The third time I collapsed he said he didn't believe I could stay on a horse-car.
But the next time I succeeded, and got clumsily under way in a weaving, tottering, uncertain fashion, and occupying pretty much all of the street.
My slow and lumbering gait filled the boy to the chin with scorn, and he sung out, "My, but don't he rip along!
Then he got down from his post and loafed along the sidewalk, still observing and occasionally commenting. Presently he dropped into my wake and followed along behind.
The bicycle, in the hands of a novice, is as alert and acute as a spirit-level in the detecting of delicate and vanishing shades of difference in these matters.
It notices a rise where your untrained eye would not observe that one existed; it notices any decline which water will run down.
I was toiling up a slight rise, but was not aware of it.
It made me tug and pant and perspire; and still, labor as I might, the machine came almost to a standstill every little while.
At such times the boy would say: "That's it! take a rest-there ain't no hurry.
They can't hold the funeral without YOU." Stones were a bother to me.
Even the smallest ones gave me a panic when I went over them.
I could hit any kind of a stone, no matter how small, if I tried to miss it; and of course at first I couldn't help trying to do that.
It is part of the ass that is put in us all, for some inscrutable reason. I was at the end of my course, at last, and it was necessary for me to round to.
This is not a pleasant thing, when you undertake it for the first time on your own responsibility, and neither is it likely to succeed.
That was my luck; that was my experience.
I dragged myself out from under the indestructible bicycle and sat down on the curb to examine. I started on the return trip.
It was now that I saw a farmer's wagon poking along down toward me, loaded with cabbages.
If I needed anything to perfect the precariousness of my steering, it was just that.
The farmer was occupying the middle of the road with his wagon, leaving barely fourteen or fifteen yards of space on either side.
I couldn't shout at him-a beginner can't shout; if he opens his mouth he is gone; he must keep all his attention on his business.
But in this grisly emergency, the boy came to the rescue, and for once I had to be grateful to him.
He kept a sharp lookout on the swiftly varying impulses and inspirations of my bicycle, and shouted to the man accordingly: "To the left!
Turn to the left, or this jackass 'll run over you!
The man started to do it.
No, to the right, to the right!
THAT won't do!-to the left!-to the right!-to the LEFT-right! left-ri-Stay where you ARE, or you're a goner!" And just then I caught the off horse in the starboard and went down in a pile.
Couldn't you SEE I was coming?" "Yes, I see you was coming, but I couldn't tell which WAY you was coming.
You couldn't yourself-now, _could_ you?
So what could _I_ do?" There was something in that, and so I had the magnanimity to say so.
I said I was no doubt as much to blame as he was. Within the next five days I achieved so much progress that the boy couldn't keep up with me.
He had to go back to his gate-post, and content himself with watching me fall at long range. There was a row of low stepping-stones across one end of the street, a measured yard apart.
Even after I got so I could steer pretty fairly I was so afraid of those stones that I always hit them.
They gave me the worst falls I ever got in that street, except those which I got from dogs.
I have seen it stated that no expert is quick enough to run over a dog; that a dog is always able to skip out of his way.
I think that that may be true: but I think that the reason he couldn't run over the dog was because he was trying to.
I did not try to run over any dog. But I ran over every dog that came along.
I think it makes a great deal of difference.
If you try to run over the dog he knows how to calculate, but if you are trying to miss him he does not know how to calculate, and is liable to jump the wrong way every time.
It was always so in my experience.
Even when I could not hit a wagon I could hit a dog that came to see me practice.
They all liked to see me practice, and they all came, for there was very little going on in our neighborhood to entertain a dog.
Eddy, Claimant-and the rest of them.
It has always been so with the human race.
There was never a Claimant that couldn't get a hearing, nor one that couldn't accumulate a rapturous following, no matter how flimsy and apparently unauthentic his claim might be.
Orton had many fine and educated minds among his adherents, Mrs. Eddy has had the like among hers from the beginning.
Her Church is as well equipped in those particulars as is any other Church.
Claimants can always count upon a following, it doesn't matter who they are, nor what they claim, nor whether they come with documents or without.
It is an interest which was born of Delia Bacon's book-away back in that ancient day-1857, or maybe 1856.
About a year later my pilot-master, Bixby, transferred me from his own steamboat to the _Pennsylvania_, and placed me under the orders and instructions of George Ealer-dead now, these many, many years.
I steered for him a good many months-as was the humble duty of the pilot-apprentice: stood a daylight watch and spun the wheel under the severe superintendence and correction of the master.
He was a prime chess-player and an idolater of Shakespeare.
He would play chess with anybody; even with me, and it cost his official dignity something to do that.
Also-quite uninvited-he would read Shakespeare to me; not just casually, but by the hour, when it was his watch and I was steering.
He read well, but not profitably for me, because he constantly injected commands into the text.
When I read Shakespeare now I can hear them as plainly as I did in that long-departed time-fifty-one years ago.
I never regarded Ealer's readings as educational.
Indeed, they were a detriment to me. His contributions to the text seldom improved it, but barring that detail he was a good reader; I can say that much for him.
He did not use the book, and did not need to; he knew his Shakespeare as well as Euclid ever knew his multiplication table. Did he have something to say-this Shakespeare-adoring Mississippi pilot-anent Delia Bacon's book? Yes.
And he said it; said it all the time, for months-in the morning watch, the middle watch, and dog watch; and probably kept it going in his sleep.
We discussed, and discussed, and discussed, and disputed and disputed and disputed; at any rate, _he_ did, and I got in a word now and then when he slipped a cog and there was a vacancy.
He was fiercely loyal to Shakespeare and cordially scornful of Bacon and of all the pretensions of the Baconians.
And at first he was glad that that was my attitude.
And so we discussed and discussed, both on the same side, and were happy.
Only for a very little while, a very, very, very little while.
Then the atmosphere began to change; began to cool off. A brighter person would have seen what the trouble was, earlier than I did, perhaps, but I saw it early enough for all practical purposes.
You see, he was of an argumentative disposition.
That was his name for it.
It has been applied since, with complacency, as many as several times, in the Bacon-Shakespeare scuffle.
Not the entire way, but far enough to answer the requirements of the case.
That is to say, I took this attitude-to wit, I only _believed_ Bacon wrote Shakespeare, whereas I _knew_ Shakespeare didn't.
Ealer was satisfied with that, and the war broke loose.
That faith, imposed upon me by self-interest in that ancient day, remains my faith today, and in it I find comfort, solace, peace, and never-failing joy.
You see how curiously theological it is.
We others do not call our inductions and deductions and reductions by any name at all.
I wrote out a passage from Shakespeare-it may have been the very one I quoted awhile ago, I don't remember-and riddled it with his wild steamboatful interlardings.
Lacey_ had followed in our wake and got stuck, and he was feeling good, I showed it to him.
I asked him to fire it off-_read_ it; read it, I diplomatically added, as only _he_ could read dramatic poetry.
The compliment touched him where he lived.
That was always the idea.
Ealer would not be convinced; he said a man could learn how to correctly handle the subtleties and mysteries and free-masonries of _any_ trade by careful reading and studying.
It was a triumph for me.
He was silent awhile, and I knew what was happening-he was losing his temper.
He delivered it, and I obeyed. O dear, how long ago it was-how pathetically long ago!
And here am I, old, forsaken, forlorn, and alone, arranging to get that argument out of somebody again. When a man has a passion for Shakespeare, it goes without saying that he keeps company with other standard authors.
Ealer always had several high-class books in the pilot-house, and he read the same ones over and over again, and did not care to change to newer and fresher ones.
He played well on the flute, and greatly enjoyed hearing himself play.
He did not lose his head-long familiarity with danger had taught him to keep it, in any and all emergencies.
He held his coat-lapels to his nose with one hand, to keep out the steam, and scrabbled around with the other till he found the joints of his flute, then he took measures to save himself alive, and was successful.
I was not on board.
I had been put ashore in New Orleans by Captain Klinefelter.
I began to ask questions, but my class-teacher, Mr. Barclay, the stone-mason, was reluctant about answering them, it seemed to me.
I was anxious to be praised for turning my thoughts to serious subjects when there wasn't another boy in the village who could be hired to do such a thing.
I was greatly interested in the incident of Eve and the serpent, and thought Eve's calmness was perfectly noble.
I will say for Mr. Barclay that he was willing to tell me the facts of Satan's history, but he stopped there: he wouldn't allow any discussion of them. In the course of time we exhausted the facts.
There were only five or six of them; you could set them all down on a visiting-card.
I had been meditating a biography, and was grieved to find that there were no materials.
I said as much, with the tears running down.
Mr. Barclay's sympathy and compassion were aroused, for he was a most kind and gentle-spirited man, and he patted me on the head and cheered me up by saying there was a whole vast ocean of materials!
I can still feel the happy thrill which these blessed words shot through me. Then he began to bail out that ocean's riches for my encouragement and joy.
Because, as he said, he had suspicions-suspicions that my attitude in that matter was not reverent, and that a person must be reverent when writing about the sacred characters.
He was so shocked that he visibly shuddered.
He said the Satanic Traditioners and Perhapsers and Conjecturers were _themselves_ sacred!
As sacred as their work.
So sacred that whoso ventured to mock them or make fun of their work, could not afterward enter any respectable house, even by the back door. How true were his words, and how wise!
How fortunate it would have been for me if I had heeded them.
But I was young, I was but seven years of age, and vain, foolish, and anxious to attract attention.
I wrote the biography, and have never been in a respectable house since. III How curious and interesting is the parallel-as far as poverty of biographical details is concerned-between Satan and Shakespeare.
It is wonderful, it is unique, it stands quite alone, there is nothing resembling it in history, nothing resembling it in romance, nothing approaching it even in tradition.
How sublime is their position, and how over-topping, how sky-reaching, how supreme-the two Great Unknowns, the two Illustrious Conjecturabilities!
Of the nineteen important men charged with the government of the town, thirteen had to "make their mark" in attesting important documents, because they could not write their names. Of the first eighteen years of his life _nothing_ is known.
February. Two blank years follow. Then-1587-he makes a ten-year visit to London, leaving the family behind. Five blank years follow.
During this period _nothing happened to him_, as far as anybody actually knows. Then-1592-there is mention of him as an actor. Next year-1593-his name appears in the official list of players. Next year-1594-he played before the queen.
A detail of no consequence: other obscurities did it every year of the forty-five of her reign.
And remained obscure. Three pretty full years follow.
Then he made a will, and signed each of its three pages with his name. A thoroughgoing business man's will.
Maybe two. If Shakespeare had owned a dog-but we need not go into that: we know he would have mentioned it in his will.
If a good dog, Susanna would have got it; if an inferior one his wife would have got a dower interest in it.
Not a line. Was he prejudiced against the art?
It made no more stir in England than the death of any other forgotten theater-actor would have made.
Nobody came down from London; there were no lamenting poems, no eulogies, no national tears-there was merely silence, and nothing more.
A striking contrast with what happened when Ben Jonson, and Francis Bacon, and Spenser, and Raleigh, and the other distinguished literary folk of Shakespeare's time passed from life!
He did write that one-a fact which stands undisputed; he wrote the whole of it; he wrote the whole of it out of his own head.
He commanded that this work of art be engraved upon his tomb, and he was obeyed.
There it abides to this day.
Beyond these details we know _not a thing_ about him.
Also, that whenever he killed a calf he made a high-flown speech over it.
They hadn't two facts in stock about the long-dead distinguished citizen, but only just the one: he slaughtered calves and broke into oratory while he was at it.
They had only one fact, yet the distinguished citizen had spent twenty-six years in that little town-just half his lifetime.
However, rightly viewed, it was the most important fact, indeed almost the only important fact, of Shakespeare's life in Stratford.
For experience is an author's most valuable asset; experience is the thing that puts the muscle and the breath and the warm blood into the book he writes.
They have long ago convinced the world-on surmise and without trustworthy evidence-that Shallow _is_ Sir Thomas. The next addition to the young Shakespeare's Stratford history comes easy.
We had nine bones, and we built the rest of him out of plaster of Paris.
He should not have said it.
It has been an embarrassment to his historians these many, many years.
He must have had to put aside his Warwickshire dialect, which wouldn't be understood in London, and study English very hard.
And according to the surmisers, that is what he did.
Yes, although there was no one in Stratford able to teach him these things, and no library in the little village to dig them out of.
But it is only surmise; there is no _evidence_ that he ever did either of those things.
They are merely a couple of chunks of plaster of Paris. There is a legend that he got his bread and butter by holding horses in front of the London theaters, mornings and afternoons.
If he did, it seriously shortened his law-study hours and his recreation-time in the courts.
In those very days he was writing great plays, and needed all the time he could get.
How did he acquire these rich assets? In the usual way: by surmise.
Thenceforward he was a busy and flourishing business man, and was raking in money with both hands for twenty years.
Still, this is only conjecture. We have only circumstantial evidence.
Internal evidence. Shall I set down the rest of the Conjectures which constitute the giant Biography of William Shakespeare?
It would strain the Unabridged Dictionary to hold them.
He is a brontosaur: nine bones and six hundred barrels of plaster of Paris. V "WE MAY ASSUME" In the Assuming trade three separate and independent cults are transacting business.
We all have to do a good deal of assuming, but I am fairly certain that in every case I can call to mind the Baconian assumers have come out ahead of the Shakespearites.
Both parties handle the same materials, but the Baconians seem to me to get much more reasonable and rational and persuasive results out of them than is the case with the Shakespearites.
The Shakespearite conducts his assuming upon a definite principle, an unchanging and immutable law: which is: 2 and 8 and 7 and 14, added together, make 165.
I believe this to be an error.
No matter, you cannot get a habit-sodden Shakespearite to cipher-up his materials upon any other basis.
With the Baconian it is different.
Wait half an hour, then open the cell, introduce a Shakespearite and a Baconian, and let them cipher and assume.
The mouse is missing: the question to be decided is, where is it?
You can guess both verdicts beforehand.
One verdict will say the kitten contains the mouse; the other will as certainly say the mouse is in the tom-cat. The Shakespearite will Reason like this-(that is not my word, it is his).
Since all these manifold things _could_ have occurred, we have _every right to believe_ they did occur.
These patiently and painstakingly accumulated vast acquirements and competences needed but one thing more-opportunity-to convert themselves into triumphant action.
Yet his death was not an event.
It made no stir, it attracted no attention.
Apparently his eminent literary contemporaries did not realize that a celebrated poet had passed from their midst. Perhaps they knew a play-actor of minor rank had disappeared, but did not regard him as the author of his Works.
We are justified in assuming" this. His death was not even an event in the little town of Stratford.
Does this mean that in Stratford he was not regarded as a celebrity of _any_ kind? "We are privileged to assume"-no, we are indeed _obliged_ to assume-that such was the case.
He had spent the first twenty-two or twenty-three years of his life there, and of course knew everybody and was known by everybody of that day in the town, including the dogs and the cats and the horses.
But not as a _celebrity?_ Apparently not.
For everybody soon forgot to remember any contact with him or any incident connected with him.
Would they if they had been asked?
It is pretty apparent that they were not.
It is a very plausible guess that nobody there or elsewhere was interested to know. For seven years after Shakespeare's death nobody seems to have been interested in him.
Then the quarto was published, and Ben Jonson awoke out of his long indifference and sang a song of praise and put it in the front of the book.
Then silence fell _again_. For sixty years.
Then inquiries into Shakespeare's Stratford life began to be made, of Stratfordians.
Of Stratfordians who had known Shakespeare or had seen him?
No. Then of Stratfordians who had seen people who had known or seen people who had seen Shakespeare?
I don't believe it has happened in any case except Shakespeare's.
Like me. My parents brought me to the village of Hannibal, Missouri, on the banks of the Mississippi, when I was two and a half years old.
I entered school at five years of age, and drifted from one school to another in the village during nine and a half years.
This for summer wear, probably.
I lived in Hannibal fifteen and a half years, altogether, then ran away, according to the custom of persons who are intending to become celebrated.
I never lived there afterward.
So they licensed me as a pilot-knighted me, so to speak-and I rose up clothed with authority, a responsible servant of the United States Government. Now then.
Shakespeare died young-he was only fifty-two.
He had lived in his native village twenty-six years, or about that.
He died celebrated (if you believe everything you read in the books).
Yet when he died nobody there or elsewhere took any notice of it; and for sixty years afterward no townsman remembered to say anything about him or about his life in Stratford.
He couldn't, very well, for its date antedated his own birth-date.
Why did not the inquirer hunt them up and interview them?
Wasn't the matter of sufficient consequence?
And so do printers, from St. Louis to New York; and so do newspaper reporters, from Nevada to San Francisco. And so do the police.
Maybe it is so, but have the experts spoken, or is it only Tom, Dick, and Harry?
Dana served two years before the mast, and had every experience that falls to the lot of the sailor before the mast of our day.
His sailor-talk flows from his pen with the sure touch and the ease and confidence of a person who has _lived_ what he is talking about, not gathered it from books and random listenings.
A race in the Pacific: Our antagonist was in her best trim.
It was my duty to furl the fore-royal; and while standing by to loose it again, I had a fine view of the scene.
From where I stood, the two vessels seemed nothing but spars and sails, while their narrow decks, far below, slanting over by the force of the wind aloft, appeared hardly capable of supporting the great fabrics raised upon them.
The _California_ was to windward of us, and had every advantage; yet, while the breeze was stiff we held our own.
As soon as it began to slacken she ranged a little ahead, and the order was given to loose the royals.
In an instant the gaskets were off and the bunt dropped.
Sheet home the fore-royal!"-"Weather sheet's home!"-"Lee sheet's home!"-"Hoist away, sir!" is bawled from aloft.
Overhaul your clew-lines!" shouts the mate.
Aye-aye, sir, all clear!"-"Taut leech! belay!
But would this same captain be competent to sit in judgment upon Shakespeare's seamanship-considering the changes in ships and ship-talk that have necessarily taken place, unrecorded, unremembered, and lost to history in the last three hundred years?
It is my conviction that Shakespeare's sailor-talk would be Choctaw to him.
For instance-from "_The Tempest_": _Master_.
Here, master; what cheer? _Master_.
Good, speak to the mariners: fall to 't, yarely, or we run ourselves to ground; bestir, bestir! (_Enter Mariners_.) _Boatswain_.
Heigh, my hearts! cheerly, cheerly, my hearts! yare, yare!
Tend to the master's whistle....
Down with the topmast! yare! lower, lower!
Bring her to try wi' the main course....
Such was the testimony borne by one of the most distinguished lawyers of the nineteenth century who was raised to the high office of Lord Chief Justice in 1850, and subsequently became Lord Chancellor.
There is nothing so dangerous," wrote Lord Campbell, "as for one not of the craft to tamper with our freemasonry." A layman is certain to betray himself by using some expression which a lawyer would never employ.
Mr. Sidney Lee himself supplies us with an example of this.
164): "On February 15, 1609, Shakespeare... obtained judgment from a jury against Addenbroke for the payment of No. 6, and No. 1, 5s.
Now a lawyer would never have spoken of obtaining "judgment from a jury," for it is the function of a jury not to deliver judgment (which is the prerogative of the court), but to find a verdict on the facts.
He had "a deep technical knowledge of the law," and an easy familiarity with "some of the most abstruse proceedings in English jurisprudence.
And again: "Whenever he indulges this propensity he uniformly lays down good law.
Malone, himself a lawyer, wrote: "His knowledge of legal terms is not merely such as might be acquired by the casual observation of even his all-comprehending mind; it has the appearance of technical skill.
And the significance of this fact is heightened by another, that it is only to the language of the law that he exhibits this inclination.
It has been suggested that it was in attendance upon the courts in London that he picked up his legal vocabulary.
And besides, Shakespeare uses his law just as freely in his first plays, written in his first London years, as in those produced at a later period.
The abstrusest elements of the common law are impressed into a disciplined service.
Over and over again, where such knowledge is unexampled in writers unlearned in the law, Shakespeare appears in perfect possession of it.
The mode in which this knowledge was pressed into service on all occasions to express his meaning and illustrate his thoughts was quite unexampled.
He seems to have had a special pleasure in his complete and ready mastership of it in all its branches.
As manifested in the plays, this legal knowledge and learning had therefore a special character which places it on a wholly different footing from the rest of the multifarious knowledge which is exhibited in page after page of the plays.
At every turn and point at which the author required a metaphor, simile, or illustration, his mind ever turned _first_ to the law.
He seems almost to have _thought_ in legal phrases, the commonest of legal expressions were ever at the end of his pen in description or illustration.
But a continuous employment involves the element of time, and time was just what the manager of two theaters had not at his disposal.
Mr. Collier wrote to Lord Campbell to ask his opinion as to the probability of this being true.
His answer was as follows: "You require us to believe implicitly a fact, of which, if true, positive and irrefragable evidence in his own handwriting might have been forthcoming to establish it.
That Shakespeare was in early life employed as a clerk in an attorney's office may be correct.
It is, to say the least, more probable that he was in an attorney's office than that he was a butcher killing calves 'in a high style,' and making speeches over them." This is a charming specimen of Stratfordian argument.
There is, as we have seen, a very old tradition that Shakespeare was a butcher's apprentice.
John Dowdall, who made a tour in Warwickshire in 1693, testifies to it as coming from the old clerk who showed him over the church, and it is unhesitatingly accepted as true by Mr. Halliwell-Phillipps. (Vol. I, p.
11, and Vol. II, pp. 71, 72.) Mr. Sidney Lee sees nothing improbable in it, and it is supported by Aubrey, who must have written his account some time before 1680, when his manuscript was completed.
Of the attorney's clerk hypothesis, on the other hand, there is not the faintest vestige of a tradition.
It has been evolved out of the fertile imaginations of embarrassed Stratfordians, seeking for some explanation of the Stratford rustic's marvelous acquaintance with law and legal terms and legal life.
Can we then for a moment believe that, if this had been so, tradition would have been absolutely silent on the matter?
Tradition is to be scouted when it is found inconvenient, but cited as irrefragable truth when it suits the case.
Shakespeare of Stratford was the author of the Plays and Poems, but the author of the Plays and Poems could not have been a butcher's apprentice.
But the author of the Plays and Poems _must_ have had a very large and a very accurate knowledge of the law.
Therefore, Shakespeare of Stratford must have been an attorney's clerk!
The method is simplicity itself.
By similar reasoning Shakespeare has been made a country schoolmaster, a soldier, a physician, a printer, and a good many other things besides, according to the inclination and the exigencies of the commentator.
Garnett and Gosse "suspect" that he was a soldier!) This may be conceded, but the concession hardly furnishes an analogy.
To these and all other subjects he recurs occasionally, and in season, but with reminiscences of the law his memory, as is abundantly clear, was simply saturated.
In season and out of season now in manifest, now in recondite application, he presses it into the service of expression and illustration.
At least a third of his myriad metaphors are derived from it.
But what is Mr. Collins's explanation?
This, as Lord Penzance points out, "would require nothing short of employment in some career involving _constant contact_ with legal questions and general legal work.
But "in what portion of Shakespeare's career would it be possible to point out that time could be found for the interposition of a legal employment in the chambers or offices of practicing lawyers?...
It is beyond doubt that at an early period he was called upon to abandon his attendance at school and assist his father, and was soon after, at the age of sixteen, bound apprentice to a trade.
While under the obligation of this bond he could not have pursued any other employment.
Then he leaves Stratford and comes to London.
He has to provide himself with the means of a livelihood, and this he did in some capacity at the theater.
Ere long he had been taken into the company as an actor, and was soon spoken of as a 'Johannes Factotum.
His rapid accumulation of wealth speaks volumes for the constancy and activity of his services.
This (1589) would be within two years after his arrival in London, which is placed by White and Halliwell- Phillipps about the year 1587.
The difficulty in supposing that, starting with a state of ignorance in 1587, when he is supposed to have come to London, he was induced to enter upon a course of most extended study and mental culture, is almost insuperable.
Still it was physically possible, provided always that he could have had access to the needful books.
But this legal training seems to me to stand on a different footing.
It is not only unaccountable and incredible, but it is actually negatived by the known facts of his career.
Lord Penzance then refers to the fact that "by 1592 (according to the best authority, Mr. Grant White) several of the plays had been written.
Also, that that man could not have been the Stratford Shakespeare-and _wasn't_. Who did write these Works, then? I wish I knew. IX Did Francis Bacon write Shakespeare's Works?
Nobody knows. We cannot say we _know_ a thing when that thing has not been proved. _Know_ is too strong a word to use when the evidence is not final and absolutely conclusive.
We can infer, if we want to, like those slaves....
No, I will not write that word, it is not kind, it is not courteous.
I cannot call them harsh names; the most I can do is to indicate them by terms reflecting my disapproval; and this without malice, without venom. To resume.
What I was about to say was, those thugs have built their entire superstition upon _inferences_, not upon known and established facts.
Since the Stratford Shakespeare couldn't have written the Works, we infer that somebody did.
Why a dozen, instead of only one or two?
One reason is, because there are a dozen that are recognizably competent to do that poem.
Do you remember "Beautiful Snow"?
Do you remember "Rock Me to Sleep, Mother, Rock Me to Sleep"?
Do you remember "Backward, turn, backward, O Time, in thy flight!
Make me a child again just for tonight"?
I remember them very well.
The world knows there was but one man on the planet at the time who was competent-not a dozen, and not two.
Was there any doubt as to who made that mighty trail?
Were there a dozen claimants? Where there two?
No-the people knew who it was that had been along there: there was only one Hercules. There has been only one Shakespeare.
There couldn't be two; certainly there couldn't be two at the same time.
It takes ages to bring forth a Shakespeare, and some more ages to match him.
Also, he has synopsized Bacon's history-a thing which cannot be done for the Stratford Shakespeare, for he hasn't any history to synopsize.
It is the atmosphere we are reared in that determines how our inclinations and aspirations shall tend.
The atmosphere furnished by the parents to the son in this present case was an atmosphere saturated with learning; with thinkings and ponderings upon deep subjects; and with polite culture.
It had its natural effect. Shakespeare of Stratford was reared in a house which had no use for books, since its owners, his parents, were without education.
This may have had an effect upon the son, but we do not know, because we have no history of him of an informing sort.
There were but few books anywhere, in that day, and only the well-to-do and highly educated possessed them, they being almost confined to the dead languages.
All the valuable books then extant in all the vernacular dialects of Europe would hardly have filled a single shelf"-imagine it!
The few existing books were in the Latin tongue mainly.
Thence he went to Paris in the train of the English Ambassador, and there he mingled daily with the wise, the cultured, the great, and the aristocracy of fashion, during another three years.
A total of six years spent at the sources of knowledge; knowledge both of books and of men.
The three spent at the university were coeval with the second and last three spent by the little Stratford lad at Stratford school supposedly, and perhapsedly, and maybe, and by inference-with nothing to infer from.
The second three of the Baconian six were "presumably" spent by the Stratford lad as apprentice to a butcher.
That is, the thugs presume it-on no evidence of any kind.
Which is their way, when they want a historical fact.
Fact and presumption are, for business purposes, all the same to them.
They know the difference, but they also know how to blink it.
They know, too, that while in history-building a fact is better than a presumption, it doesn't take a presumption long to bloom into a fact when _they_ have the handling of it.
The thug is aware that loudness convinces sixty persons where reasoning convinces but one.
I wouldn't be a thug, not even if-but never mind about that, it has nothing to do with the argument, and it is not noble in spirit besides.
If I am better than a thug, is the merit mine?
Then to Him be the praise.
That is the right spirit. They "presume" the lad severed his "presumed" connection with the Stratford school to become apprentice to a butcher.
They also "presume" that the butcher was his father.
There is no written record of it, nor any other actual evidence.
If it would have helped their case any, they would have apprenticed him to thirty butchers, to fifty butchers, to a wilderness of butchers-all by their patented method "presumption.
If it will help their case they will do it yet; and if it will further help it, they will "presume" that all those butchers were his father.
And the week after, they will _say_ it.
Why, it is just like being the past tense of the compound reflexive adverbial incandescent hypodermic irregular accusative Noun of Multitude; which is father to the expression which the grammarians call Verb.
It is like a whole ancestry, with only one posterity. To resume.
Next, the young Bacon took up the study of law, and mastered that abstruse science.
Every one has said it, no one doubts it.
Also, he had humor, humor in rich abundance, and always wanting to break out.
No man ever spoke more neatly, more pressly, more weightily, or suffered less emptiness, less idleness, in what he uttered.
No member of his speech but consisted of his (its) own graces....
It was not difficult for such an intellect to discover many irresistible arguments in favor of such a scheme.
He made extensive and valuable additions to his Essays.
He published the inestimable _Treatise De Augmentis Scientiarum_. Did these labors of Hercules fill up his time to his contentment, and quiet his appetite for work?
Poor old dying John of Gaunt volleying second-rate puns at his own name, is a pathetic instance of it.
Yet in his magnificent day-dreams there was nothing wild-nothing but what sober reason sanctioned. Bacon's greatest performance is the first book of the _Novum Organum_....
Every part of it blazes with wit, but with wit which is employed only to illustrate and decorate truth.
He was a genius without a mate, a prodigy not matable.
There was only one of him; the planet could not produce two of him at one birth, nor in one age.
He could have written anything that is in the Plays and Poems.
He could have written this: The cloud-cap'd towers, the gorgeous palaces, The solemn temples, the great globe itself, Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve, And, like an insubstantial pageant faded, Leave not a rack behind.
It will give him a shock.
You never notice how commonplace and unpoetic gravel is until you bite into a layer of it in a pie. XI Am I trying to convince anybody that Shakespeare did not write Shakespeare's Works?
Ah, now, what do you take me for?
Would I be so soft as that, after having known the human race familiarly for nearly seventy-four years?
It would grieve me to know that any one could think so injuriously of me, so uncomplimentarily, so unadmiringly of me.
I doubt if I could do it myself.
We get them all at second hand, we reason none of them out for ourselves.
It is the way we are made.
It is the way we are all made, and we can't help it, we can't change it.
Disbelief in him cannot come swiftly, disbelief in a healthy and deeply-loved tar baby has never been known to disintegrate swiftly; it is a very slow process.
We are The Reasoning Race, and when we find a vague file of chipmunk-tracks stringing through the dust of Stratford village, we know by our reasoning bowers that Hercules has been along there.
I feel that our fetish is safe for three centuries yet.
The bust, too-there in the Stratford Church.
The farthest I can go in that direction is to call them by names of limited reverence-names merely descriptive, never unkind, never offensive, never tainted by harsh feeling.
If _they_ would do like this, they would feel better in their hearts.
One of the most trying defects which I find in these Stratfordolaters, these Shakesperiods, these thugs, these bangalores, these troglodytes, these herumfrodites, these blatherskites, these buccaneers, these bandoleers, is their spirit of irreverence.
It is detectable in every utterance of theirs when they are talking about us. I am thankful that in me there is nothing of that spirit.
When a thing is sacred to me it is impossible for me to be irreverent toward it.
I cannot call to mind a single instance where I have ever been irreverent, except towards the things which were sacred to other people.
Am I in the right?
But I ask no one to take my unsupported word; no, look at the dictionary; let the dictionary decide.
Here is the definition: _Irreverence_.
The quality or condition of irreverence toward God and sacred things. What does the Hindu say?
He says it is correct.
He says irreverence is lack of respect for Vishnu, and Brahma, and Chrishna, and his other gods, and for his sacred cattle, and for his temples and the things within them.
We can't say a word, for he has our own dictionary at his back, and its decision is final. This law, reduced to its simplest terms, is this: 1.
We can't have that: there's enough of us already.
That can surely happen, and when it happens, the word Irreverence will be regarded as the most meaningless, and foolish, and self-conceited, and insolent, and impudent, and dictatorial word in the language.
And people will say, "Whose business is it what gods I worship and what things hold sacred?
Who has the right to dictate to my conscience, and where did he get that right?" We cannot afford to let that calamity come upon us.
We must save the word from this destruction.
There is but one way to do it, and that is to stop the spread of the privilege and strictly confine it to its present limits-that is, to all the Christian sects, to all the Hindu sects, and me.
We do not need any more, the stock is watered enough, just as it is. It would be better if the privilege were limited to me alone.
I think so because I am the only sect that knows how to employ it gently, kindly, charitably, dispassionately.
The other sects lack the quality of self-restraint.
Then there will be no more quarreling, no more bandying of disrespectful epithets, no more heartburnings. There will then be nothing sacred involved in this Bacon-Shakespeare controversy except what is sacred to me.
That will simplify the whole matter, and trouble will cease.
There will be irreverence no longer, because I will not allow it.
The first time those criminals charge me with irreverence for calling their Stratford myth an Arthur-Orton-Mary-Baker-Thompson-Eddy-Louis-the-Seventeenth-Veiled- Prophet -of-Khorassan will be the last.
Every one of them except one-the most famous, the most renowned-by far the most illustrious of them all-Shakespeare!
You will then have listed fifteen hundred celebrities, and you can trace the authentic life-histories of the whole of them.
Save one-far and away the most colossal prodigy of the entire accumulation-Shakespeare!
About him you can find out _nothing_.
Nothing of even the slightest importance. Nothing worth the trouble of stowing away in your memory.
We can go to the records and find out the life-history of every renowned _race-horse_ of modern times-but not Shakespeare's!
The Plays enjoyed high fame from the beginning; and if he wrote them it seems a pity the world did not find it out.
He ought to have explained that he was the author, and not merely a _nom de plume_ for another man to hide behind.
If he had been less intemperately solicitous about his bones, and more solicitous about his Works, it would have been better for his good name, and a kindness to us.
The bones were not important.
They will moulder away, they will turn to dust, but the Works will endure until the last sun goes down. MARK TWAIN. _P.S. March 25_.
And not only in great London, but also in the little village where he was born, where he lived a quarter of a century, and where he died and was buried.
Today a Hannibal _Courier-Post_ of recent date has reached me, with an article in it which reinforces my contention that a really celebrated person cannot be forgotten in his village in the short space of sixty years.
Clemens as a few of the unlettered call him, grows in the estimation and regard of the residents of the town he made famous and the town that made him famous.
Like Aunt Becky and Mrs. Clemens, they can now see that Mark was hardly appreciated when he lived here and that the things he did as a boy and was whipped for doing were not all bad, after all.
The deceased was a sister of "Huckleberry Finn," one of the famous characters in Mark Twain's _Tom Sawyer_.
She had been a member of the Dickason family-the housekeeper- for nearly forty-five years, and was a highly respected lady.
For the past eight years she had been an invalid, but was as well cared for by Mr. Dickason and his family as if she had been a near relative.
She was a member of the Park Methodist Church and a Christian woman. I remember her well.
I have a picture of her in my mind which was graven there, clear and sharp and vivid, sixty-three years ago.
She was at that time nine years old, and I was about eleven.
I remember where she stood, and how she looked; and I can still see her bare feet, her bare head, her brown face, and her short tow-linen frock.
What it was about I have long ago forgotten.
But it was the tears that preserved the picture for me, no doubt.
She was a good child, I can say that for her.
She knew me nearly seventy years ago. Did she forget me, in the course of time?
If she had lived in Stratford in Shakespeare's time, would she have forgotten him?
Carried out, it finally amounts to this, which also I believe-"That government is best which governs not at all;" and when men are prepared for it, that will be the kind of government which they will have.
Government is at best but an expedient; but most governments are usually, and all governments are sometimes, inexpedient.
The objections which have been brought against a standing army, and they are many and weighty, and deserve to prevail, may also at last be brought against a standing government.
The standing army is only an arm of the standing government.
It has not the vitality and force of a single living man; for a single man can bend it to his will.
It is a sort of wooden gun to the people themselves; and, if ever they should use it in earnest as a real one against each other, it will surely split.
But it is not the less necessary for this; for the people must have some complicated machinery or other, and hear its din, to satisfy that idea of government which they have.
Governments show thus how successfully men can be imposed on, even impose on themselves, for their own advantage.
The character inherent in the American people has done all that has been accomplished; and it would have done somewhat more, if the government had not sometimes got in its way.
For government is an expedient, by which men would fain succeed in letting one another alone; and, as has been said, when it is most expedient, the governed are most let alone by it.
But a government in which the majority rule in all cases can not be based on justice, even as far as men understand it.
Can there not be a government in which the majorities do not virtually decide right and wrong, but conscience?-in which majorities decide only those questions to which the rule of expediency is applicable?
Must the citizen ever for a moment, or in the least degree, resign his conscience to the legislator?
Why has every man a conscience, then?
I think that we should be men first, and subjects afterward.
It is not desirable to cultivate a respect for the law, so much as for the right.
The only obligation which I have a right to assume, is to do at any time what I think right.
It is truly enough said that a corporation has no conscience; but a corporation of conscientious men is a corporation _with_ a conscience.
Law never made men a whit more just; and, by means of their respect for it, even the well-disposed are daily made the agents of injustice.
They have no doubt that it is a damnable business in which they are concerned; they are all peaceably inclined.
Men at all? or small movable forts and magazines, at the service of some unscrupulous man in power?
They are the standing army, and the militia, jailers, constables, _posse comitatus_, &c.
Such command no more respect than men of straw, or a lump of dirt.
They have the same sort of worth only as horses and dogs. Yet such as these even are commonly esteemed good citizens.
Others, as most legislators, politicians, lawyers, ministers, and office-holders, serve the state chiefly with their heads; and, as they rarely make any moral distinctions, they are as likely to serve the devil, without _intending_ it, as God.
A very few, as heroes, patriots, martyrs, reformers in the great sense, and _men_, serve the State with their consciences also, and so necessarily resist it for the most part; and they are commonly treated by it as enemies.
But almost all say that such is not the case now.
But such was the case, they think, in the Revolution of '75.
At any rate, it is a great evil to make a stir about it.
But when the friction comes to have its machine, and oppression and robbery are organized, I say, let us not have such a machine any longer.
Of this, he says, every man shall judge for himself.
But Paley appears never to have contemplated those cases to which the rule of expediency does not apply, in which a people, as well as an individual, must do justice, cost what it may.
If I have unjustly wrested a plank from a drowning man, I must restore it to him though I drown myself.
This, according to Paley, would be inconvenient.
But he that would save his life, in such a case, shall lose it.
I quarrel not with far-off foes, but with those who, near at home, co-operate with, and do the bidding of those far away, and without whom the latter would be harmless.
We are accustomed to say, that the mass of men are unprepared; but improvement is slow, because the few are not materially wiser or better than the many.
It is not so important that many should be as good as you, as that there be some absolute goodness somewhere; for that will leaven the whole lump.
What is the price-current of an honest man and patriot today?
They hesitate, and they regret, and sometimes they petition; but they do nothing in earnest and with effect.
They will wait, well disposed, for others to remedy the evil, that they may no longer have it to regret.
At most, they give only a cheap vote, and a feeble countenance and Godspeed, to the right, as it goes by them.
The character of the voters is not staked.
I cast my vote, perchance, as I think right; but I am not vitally concerned that that right should prevail.
I am willing to leave it to the majority.
Its obligation, therefore, never exceeds that of expediency.
Even voting _for the right_ is _doing_ nothing for it.
It is only expressing to men feebly your desire that it should prevail.
A wise man will not leave the right to the mercy of chance, nor wish it to prevail through the power of the majority.
There is but little virtue in the action of masses of men.
Can we not count upon some independent votes?
Are there not many individuals in the country who do not attend conventions?
But no: I find that the respectable man, so called, has immediately drifted from his position, and despairs of his country, when his country has more reasons to despair of him.
He forthwith adopts one of the candidates thus selected as the only _available_ one, thus proving that he is himself _available_ for any purposes of the demagogue.
His vote is of no more worth than that of any unprincipled foreigner or hireling native, who may have been bought.
Oh for a man who is a _man_, and, as my neighbor says, has a bone in his back which you cannot pass your hand through!
Our statistics are at fault: the population has been returned too large. How many _men_ are there to a square thousand miles in the country? Hardly one.
Does not America offer any inducement for men to settle here?
If I devote myself to other pursuits and contemplations, I must first see, at least, that I do not pursue them sitting upon another man's shoulders.
I must get off him first, that he may pursue his contemplations too.
See what gross inconsistency is tolerated.
Some are petitioning the State to dissolve the Union, to disregard the requisitions of the President.
Why do they not dissolve it themselves,-the union between themselves and the State,-and refuse to pay their quota into its treasury?
Do not they stand in same relation to the State, that the State does to the Union?
Action from principle,-the perception and the performance of right,-changes things and relations; it is essentially revolutionary, and does not consist wholly with anything which was.
Men generally, under such a government as this, think that they ought to wait until they have persuaded the majority to alter them.
They think that, if they should resist, the remedy would be worse than the evil.
But it is the fault of the government itself that the remedy _is_ worse than the evil. _It_ makes it worse.
Why is it not more apt to anticipate and provide for reform? Why does it not cherish its wise minority?
Why does it cry and resist before it is hurt?
Let your life be a counter friction to stop the machine.
They take too much time, and a man's life will be gone.
I have other affairs to attend to.
I came into this world, not chiefly to make this a good place to live in, but to live in it, be it good or bad.
A man has not every thing to do, but something; and because he cannot do _every thing_, it is not necessary that he should do _something_ wrong.
This may seem to be harsh and stubborn and unconcilliatory; but it is to treat with the utmost kindness and consideration the only spirit that can appreciate or deserves it.
I think that it is enough if they have God on their side, without waiting for that other one.
My civil neighbor, the tax-gatherer, is the very man I have to deal with,-for it is, after all, with men and not with parchment that I quarrel,-and he has voluntarily chosen to be an agent of the government.
For it matters not how small the beginning may seem to be: what is once well done is done for ever. But we love better to talk about it: that we say is our mission.
Reform keeps many scores of newspapers in its service, but not one man.
Cast your whole vote, not a strip of paper merely, but your whole influence.
A minority is powerless while it conforms to the majority; it is not even a minority then; but it is irresistible when it clogs by its whole weight.
If the alternative is to keep all just men in prison, or give up war and slavery, the State will not hesitate which to choose.
If a thousand men were not to pay their tax-bills this year, that would not be a violent and bloody measure, as it would be to pay them, and enable the State to commit violence and shed innocent blood.
This is, in fact, the definition of a peaceable revolution, if any such is possible.
If the tax-gatherer, or any other public officer, asks me, as one has done, "But what shall I do?" my answer is, "If you really wish to do any thing, resign your office.
When the subject has refused allegiance, and the officer has resigned his office, then the revolution is accomplished.
But even suppose blood should flow.
Is there not a sort of blood shed when the conscience is wounded?
Through this wound a man's real manhood and immortality flow out, and he bleeds to an everlasting death.
To such the State renders comparatively small service, and a slight tax is wont to appear exorbitant, particularly if they are obliged to earn it by special labor with their hands.
If there were one who lived wholly without the use of money, the State itself would hesitate to demand it of him.
But the rich man-not to make any invidious comparison-is always sold to the institution which makes him rich.
Absolutely speaking, the more money, the less virtue; for money comes between a man and his objects, and obtains them for him; it was certainly no great virtue to obtain it.
It puts to rest many questions which he would otherwise be taxed to answer; while the only new question which it puts is the hard but superfluous one, how to spend it.
Thus his moral ground is taken from under his feet.
The opportunities of living are diminished in proportion as what are called the "means" are increased.
The best thing a man can do for his culture when he is rich is to endeavor to carry out those schemes which he entertained when he was poor.
Christ answered the Herodians according to their condition.
For my own part, I should not like to think that I ever rely on the protection of the State.
But, if I deny the authority of the State when it presents its tax-bill, it will soon take and waste all my property, and so harass me and my children without end.
This makes it impossible for a man to live honestly and at the same time comfortably in outward respects.
It will not be worth the while to accumulate property; that would be sure to go again.
You must hire or squat somewhere, and raise but a small crop, and eat that soon.
You must live within yourself, and depend upon yourself, always tucked up and ready for a start, and not have many affairs.
A man may grow rich in Turkey even, if he will be in all respects a good subject of the Turkish government.
Confucius said,-"If a State is governed by the principles of reason, poverty and misery are subjects of shame; if a State is not governed by the principles of reason, riches and honors are the subjects of shame.
It costs me less in every sense to incur the penalty of disobedience to the State, than it would to obey.
Pay it," it said, "or be locked up in the jail.
But, unfortunately, another man saw fit to pay it.
I did not see why the schoolmaster should be taxed to support the priest, and not the priest the schoolmaster; for I was not the State's schoolmaster, but I supported myself by voluntary subscription.
I did not see why the lyceum should not present its tax-bill, and have the State to back its demand, as well as the church.
This I gave to the town-clerk; and he has it.
I wondered that it should have concluded at length that this was the best use it could put me to, and had never thought to avail itself of my services in some way.
I saw that, if there was a wall of stone between me and my townsmen, there was a still more difficult one to climb or break through, before they could get to be as free as I was.
I did nor for a moment feel confined, and the walls seemed a great waste of stone and mortar.
I felt as if I alone of all my townsmen had paid my tax. They plainly did not know how to treat me, but behaved like persons who are underbred.
In every threat and in every compliment there was a blunder; for they thought that my chief desire was to stand the other side of that stone wall.
I could not but smile to see how industriously they locked the door on my meditations, which followed them out again without let or hindrance, and _they_ were really all that was dangerous.
As they could not reach me, they had resolved to punish my body; just as boys, if they cannot come at some person against whom they have a spite, will abuse his dog.
It is not armed with superior wit or honesty, but with superior physical strength.
I was not born to be forced.
I will breathe after my own fashion.
Let us see who is the strongest.
What force has a multitude?
They only can force me who obey a higher law than I.
They force me to become like themselves.
I do not hear of _men_ being _forced_ to live this way or that by masses of men.
What sort of life were that to live?
When I meet a government which says to me, "Your money or your life," why should I be in haste to give it my money?
It may be in a great strait, and not know what to do: I cannot help that.
It must help itself; do as I do. It is not worth the while to snivel about it.
I am not responsible for the successful working of the machinery of society.
I am not the son of the engineer.
If a plant cannot live according to its nature, it dies; and so a man. The night in prison was novel and interesting enough.
The prisoners in their shirt-sleeves were enjoying a chat and the evening air in the door-way, when I entered.
But the jailer said, "Come, boys, it is time to lock up;" and so they dispersed, and I heard the sound of their steps returning into the hollow apartments.
My room-mate was introduced to me by the jailer as "a first-rate fellow and a clever man.
When the door was locked, he showed me where to hang my hat, and how he managed matters there.
The rooms were whitewashed once a month; and this one, at least, was the whitest, most simply furnished, and probably the neatest apartment in town.
Why," said he, "they accuse me of burning a barn; but I never did it.
As near as I could discover, he had probably gone to bed in a barn when drunk, and smoked his pipe there; and so a barn was burnt.
Probably this is the only house in the town where verses are composed, which are afterward printed in a circular form, but not published.
It seemed to me that I never had heard the town-clock strike before, nor the evening sounds of the village; for we slept with the windows open, which were inside the grating.
It was to see my native village in the light of the Middle Ages, and our Concord was turned into a Rhine stream, and visions of knights and castles passed before me.
They were the voices of old burghers that I heard in the streets.
I was an involuntary spectator and auditor of whatever was done and said in the kitchen of the adjacent village-inn-a wholly new and rare experience to me.
It was a closer view of my native town.
I was fairly inside of it.
I never had seen its institutions before.
This is one of its peculiar institutions; for it is a shire town.
When they called for the vessels again, I was green enough to return what bread I had left; but my comrade seized it, and said that I should lay that up for lunch or dinner.
I saw yet more distinctly the State in which I lived.
My neighbors did not thus salute me, but first looked at me, and then at one another, as if I had returned from a long journey.
I was put into jail as I was going to the shoemaker's to get a shoe which was mended.
It is for no particular item in the tax-bill that I refuse to pay it.
I simply wish to refuse allegiance to the State, to withdraw and stand aloof from it effectually.
I do not care to trace the course of my dollar, if I could, till it buys a man, or a musket to shoot one with,-the dollar is innocent,-but I am concerned to trace the effects of my allegiance.
But one cannot be too much on his guard in such a case, lest his actions be biassed by obstinacy, or an undue regard for the opinions of men.
But I think, again, this is no reason why I should do as they do, or permit others to suffer much greater pain of a different kind.
You do not resist cold and hunger, the winds and the waves, thus obstinately; you quietly submit to a thousand similar necessities.
You do not put your head into the fire.
But, if I put my head deliberately into the fire, there is no appeal to fire or to the Maker of fire, and I have only myself to blame.
I do not wish to split hairs, to make fine distinctions, or set myself up as better than my neighbors.
I seek rather, I may say, even an excuse for conforming to the laws of the land.
I am but too ready to conform to them.
It is not many moments that I live under a government, even in this world.
Statesmen and legislators, standing so completely within the institution, never distinctly and nakedly behold it.
They speak of moving society, but have no resting-place without it.
They may be men of a certain experience and discrimination, and have no doubt invented ingenious and even useful systems, for which we sincerely thank them; but all their wit and usefulness lie within certain not very wide limits.
They are wont to forget that the world is not governed by policy and expediency.
Webster never goes behind government, and so cannot speak with authority about it.
Still his quality is not wisdom, but prudence.
The lawyer's truth is not Truth, but consistency or a consistent expediency.
Truth is always in harmony with herself, and is not concerned chiefly to reveal the justice that may consist with wrong-doing.
He well deserves to be called, as he has been called, the Defender of the Constitution. There are really no blows to be given by him but defensive ones.
He is not a leader, but a follower.
His leaders are the men of '87.
Still thinking of the sanction which the Constitution gives to slavery, he says, "Because it was part of the original compact,-let it stand.
Associations formed elsewhere, springing from a feeling of humanity, or any other cause, have nothing whatever to do with it.
They are rare in the history of the world.
There are orators, politicians, and eloquent men, by the thousand; but the speaker has not yet opened his mouth to speak who is capable of settling the much-vexed questions of the day.
We love eloquence for its own sake, and not for any truth which it may utter, or any heroism it may inspire.
Our legislators have not yet learned the comparative value of free-trade and of freedom, of union, and of rectitude, to a nation.
They have no genius or talent for comparatively humble questions of taxation and finance, commerce and manufactures and agriculture.
If we were left solely to the wordy wit of legislators in Congress for our guidance, uncorrected by the seasonable experience and the effectual complaints of the people, America would not long retain her rank among the nations.
It can have no pure right over my person and property but what I concede to it.
The progress from an absolute to a limited monarchy, from a limited monarchy to a democracy, is a progress toward a true respect for the individual.
Even the Chinese philosopher was wise enough to regard the individual as the basis of the empire.
Is a democracy, such as we know it, the last improvement possible in government?
Is it not possible to take a step further towards recognizing and organizing the rights of man?
There will never be a really free and enlightened State, until the State comes to recognize the individual as a higher and independent power, from which all its own power and authority are derived, and treats him accordingly.
Thuvia, Maid of Mars by Edgar Rice Burroughs Contents I.
No harder than your heart, nor colder is the hard, cold ersite of this thrice happy bench which supports your divine and fadeless form!
Tell me, O Thuvia of Ptarth, that I may still hope-that though you do not love me now, yet some day, some day, my princess, I-" The girl sprang to her feet with an exclamation of surprise and displeasure.
Her queenly head was poised haughtily upon her smooth red shoulders.
Her dark eyes looked angrily into those of the man. "You forget yourself, and the customs of Barsoom, Astok," she said.
I have given you no right thus to address the daughter of Thuvan Dihn, nor have you won such a right." The man reached suddenly forth and grasped her by the arm. "You shall be my princess!" he cried.
By the breast of Issus, thou shalt, nor shall any other come between Astok, Prince of Dusar, and his heart's desire.
The act of Astok, Prince of Dusar, was profanation.
There was no terror in the eyes of Thuvia of Ptarth-only horror for the thing the man had done and for its possible consequences. "Release me.
With a little cry she struck him full in the mouth with the massive bracelets that circled her free arm. "Calot!" she exclaimed, and then: "The guard!
A tall, straight youth he was, with black hair and keen grey eyes; broad of shoulder and narrow of hip; a clean-limbed fighting man.
He came on in great leaps that carried him so swiftly over the ground that the speed of the guardsmen was as nothing by comparison. Astok still clutched Thuvia's wrist as the young warrior confronted him.
Kaor, Thuvia of Ptarth!" he cried.
But afterward he shall account to Carthoris, Prince of Helium, for this affront to the daughter of my father's friend.
It was a difficult position for the young officer who commanded it.
His prisoner was the son of a mighty jeddak; he was the guest of Thuvan Dihn-until but now an honoured guest upon whom every royal dignity had been showered.
To arrest him forcibly could mean naught else than war, and yet he had done that which in the eyes of the Ptarth warrior merited death. The young man hesitated.
He looked toward his princess.
She, too, guessed all that hung upon the action of the coming moment.
For many years Dusar and Ptarth had been at peace with each other.
Their great merchant ships plied back and forth between the larger cities of the two nations.
On either side marched a file of guardsmen.
Beside her, in the brilliant light of the nearer moon, sat Carthoris.
His eyes were not upon the dim bulk of the battleship, but on the profile of the girl's upturned face. "Thuvia," he whispered. The girl turned her eyes toward his.
His hand stole out to find hers, but she drew her own gently away. "Thuvia of Ptarth, I love you!" cried the young warrior.
Tell me that it does not offend." She shook her head sadly.
His eyes were wide in astonishment.
It never had occurred to the Prince of Helium that Thuvia of Ptarth might love another. "But at Kadabra!" he exclaimed.
Nothing, Thuvia, that is true; yet I could have sworn you loved me.
Indeed, you well knew how near to worship has been my love for you." "And how might I know it, Carthoris?" she asked innocently.
Did you ever tell me as much?
Ever before have words of love for me fallen from your lips?" "But you _must_ have known it!" he exclaimed.
Who may say? "Promised to another?
Carthoris scarcely breathed the words.
With-" and then he hesitated, waiting for her to fill in the name. "Kulan Tith, Jeddak of Kaol," she replied.
He is of Barsoom's noblest blood and mightiest fighters," mused Carthoris.
My father's friend and mine-would that it might have been another!" he muttered almost savagely.
I told you that I loved you, Thuvia, before I knew that you were promised to another.
I may not tell you it again, but I am glad that you know it, for there is no dishonour in it either to you or to Kulan Tith or to myself.
My love is such that it may embrace as well Kulan Tith-if you love him.
There was almost a question in the statement. "I am promised to him," she replied. Carthoris backed slowly away.
He laid one hand upon his heart, the other upon the pommel of his long-sword. "These are yours-always," he said.
A moment later he had entered the palace, and was gone from the girl's sight. Had he returned at once he would have found her prone upon the ersite bench, her face buried in her arms.
There was none to see. Carthoris of Helium had come all unannounced to the court of his father's friend that day.
He had come alone in a small flier, sure of the same welcome that always awaited him at Ptarth.
I set the pointer here upon the right-hand dial which represents the eastern hemisphere of Barsoom, so that the point rests upon the exact latitude and longitude of Helium.
No danger of that," he replied.
See here," and he indicated a device at the right of the destination compass.
This is my 'obstruction evader,' as I call it.
This visible device is the switch which throws the mechanism on or off.
You see I have anticipated almost every contingency." Thuvan Dihn smiled his appreciation of the marvellous device.
The forward servant pushed almost to the flier's side.
His eyes were narrowed to slits. "All but one," he said. The nobles looked at him in astonishment, and one of them grasped the fellow none too gently by the shoulder to push him back to his proper place.
Carthoris raised his hand. "Wait," he urged.
Let us hear what the man has to say-no creation of mortal mind is perfect.
Perchance he has detected a weakness that it will be well to know at once.
It was evident that he regretted the temerity that had made him the centre of interested observation.
But at last, seeing no alternative, he spoke. "It might be tampered with," he said, "by an enemy." Carthoris drew a small key from his leathern pocket-pouch. "Look at this," he said, handing it to the man.
If you know aught of locks, you will know that the mechanism which this unlooses is beyond the cunning of a picker of locks.
It guards the vitals of the instrument from crafty tampering.
Turning to look for it he planted the sole of his sandal full upon the glittering object.
For an instant he bore all his weight upon the foot that covered the key, then he stepped back and with an exclamation as of pleasure that he had found it, stooped, recovered it, and returned it to the Heliumite.
Along one broad avenue and then another he strode briskly until he had passed beyond the district of the nobles and had come to the place of shops.
A clerk arose questioningly as he entered, and at his request to have a word with the minister asked his credentials.
He bowed the stranger to a seat, and hastened to an inner room with the armlet in his hand.
From the Palace of Peace he hurried directly to the palace of the Dusarian minister. That night two swift fliers left the same palace top.
One sped its rapid course toward Helium; the other- Thuvia of Ptarth strolled in the gardens of her father's palace, as was her nightly custom before retiring.
For lesser things great powers had gone to war. The princess in her was shocked and angered-but what of the girl! And the guard-what of them?
So, too, did other eyes watch. Within the dense shadows of the skeel grove, in a wide avenue beneath o'erspreading foliage, a flier hung a dozen feet above the ground.
From its deck keen eyes watched the far-fanning searchlight of the patrol boat.
No light shone from the enshadowed craft.
Upon its deck was the silence of the tomb.
Its crew of a half-dozen red warriors watched the lights of the patrol boat diminishing in the distance. "The intellects of our ancestors are with us to-night," said one in a low tone. "No plan ever carried better," returned another.
They did precisely as the prince foretold." He who had first spoken turned toward the man who squatted before the control board. "Now!" he whispered.
There was no other order given.
Every man upon the craft had evidently been well schooled in each detail of that night's work.
Silently the dark hull crept beneath the cathedral arches of the dark and silent grove. Thuvia of Ptarth, gazing toward the east, saw the blacker blot against the blackness of the trees as the craft topped the buttressed garden wall.
She saw the dim bulk incline gently downward toward the scarlet sward of the garden. She knew that men came not thus with honourable intent.
They ran forward toward the girl. Still she made no sign of alarm, standing as though hypnotized.
Or could it have been as one who awaited a welcome visitor? Not until they were quite close to her did she move.
A heavy silken scarf was wound about her head.
She was lifted in strong arms and borne to the deck of the flier.
There was the sudden whirl of propellers, the rushing of air against her body, and, from far beneath the shouting and the challenge from the guard. Racing toward the south another flier sped toward Helium.
In its cabin a tall red man bent over the soft sole of an upturned sandal.
With delicate instruments he measured the faint imprint of a small object which appeared there.
Here, take the sketch, Larok, and give all thine own genius full and unfettered freedom in reproducing it in metal." The warrior-artificer bowed.
Man builds naught," he said, "that man may not destroy.
Its leisurely approach and the evident confidence with which it moved across the city aroused no suspicion in the minds of the sleepy guard.
Their round of duty nearly done, they had little thought beyond the coming of those who were to relieve them. Peace reigned throughout Helium.
There was naught to fear. Without haste the nearest air patrol swung sluggishly about and approached the stranger.
At easy speaking distance the officer upon her deck hailed the incoming craft. The cheery "Kaor!" and the plausible explanation that the owner had come from distant parts for a few days of pleasure in gay Helium sufficed.
All Martian men are warriors, save those physically unable to bear arms.
The tradesman and his clerk clank with their martial trappings as they pursue their vocations.
Everywhere were evidences of luxury and wealth.
Slaves appeared upon every housetop with gorgeous silks and costly furs, laying them in the sun for airing. Jewel-encrusted women lolled even thus early upon the carven balconies before their sleeping apartments.
Landing stages that tower high into the heavens are for the great international passenger liners.
The only loud noises they can abide are the martial sounds of war, the clash of arms, the collision of two mighty dreadnoughts of the air.
To them there is no sweeter music than this. At the intersection of two broad avenues Vas Kor descended from the street level to one of the great pneumatic stations of the city.
In slow procession the things moved in single file along a grooved track.
A half dozen attendants assisted passengers to enter, or directed these carriers to their proper destination. Vas Kor approached one that was empty.
Upon its nose was a dial and a pointer.
He set the pointer for a certain station in Greater Helium, raised the arched lid of the thing, stepped in and lay down upon the upholstered bottom.
He spoke no word to the slave sitting in the driver's seat.
Presently it left the thronged district behind to enter a section of small shops, where it stopped before the entrance to one which bore the sign of a dealer in foreign silks. Vas Kor entered the low-ceiling room.
We must forget that I am aught other than your slave.
If all has been as carefully carried out as it has been planned, we have no time to waste.
Instead we should be upon our way to the slave market.
Are you ready?" The merchant nodded, and, turning to a great chest, produced the unemblazoned trappings of a slave.
Briefly and clearly each recounted the virtues of his particular offering. When all were done, the major-domo of the Prince of Helium recalled to the block such as had favourably impressed him.
For such he had made a fair offer. There was little haggling as to price, and none at all when Vas Kor was placed upon the block.
That you are innocent of the charge that has been placed against you by insinuation, we well know; but Thuvan Dihn must know it well, too. "There is but one who may convince him, and that one be you.
Several worked about the swift flier that would bear the Prince of Helium rapidly toward Ptarth. At last all was done.
But two armed slaves remained on guard.
The setting sun hung low above the horizon.
When he had come quite close he spoke. "What strange craft is that?" he asked. The other turned about quickly to gaze heavenward.
Scarce was his back turned toward the giant than the short-sword of the latter was plunged beneath his left shoulder blade, straight through his heart. Voiceless, the soldier sank in his tracks-stone dead.
Then he returned the dial to its place, set the pointer, and removed it again to note the resultant change in the position of the parts affected by the act. A smile crossed his lips.
With a pair of cutters he snipped off the projection which extended through the dial from the external pointer-now the latter might be moved to any point upon the dial without affecting the mechanism below.
In other words, the eastern hemisphere dial was useless. Now he turned his attention to the western dial.
This he set upon a certain point.
Afterward he removed the cover of this dial also, and with keen tool cut the steel finger from the under side of the pointer. As quickly as possible he replaced the second dial cover, and resumed his place on guard.
He cast but a casual glance upon the single slave who stood guard.
The fellow's thin, cruel lips, and the sword-cut that ran from temple to mouth aroused the suggestion of an unpleasant memory within him.
No, the fact was, she did not love him.
His flier was rushing swiftly above a barren, ochre plain-the world-old bottom of a long-dead Martian sea. In the distance rose low hills.
Toward these the craft was headed.
Within a hundred yards of the ground it came to rest, floating gently in the light air, and at the same instant an alarm sounded at the sleeper's ear. Carthoris sprang to his feet.
Below him he looked to see the teeming metropolis of Ptarth.
Beside him, already, there should have been an air patrol. He gazed about in bewildered astonishment.
There indeed was a great city, but it was not Ptarth.
No multitudes surged through its broad avenues.
No signs of life broke the dead monotony of its deserted roof tops.
No gorgeous silks, no priceless furs lent life and colour to the cold marble and the gleaming ersite. No patrol boat lay ready with its familiar challenge.
Silent and empty lay the great city-empty and silent the surrounding air. What had happened? Carthoris examined the dial of his compass.
The pointer was set upon Ptarth.
Could the creature of his genius have thus betrayed him?
He would not believe it. Quickly he unlocked the cover, turning it back upon its hinge.
Reaching for the control board, he sent his craft racing plummet-like toward the ground. The green man was hurrying his captive toward a huge thoat that browsed upon the ochre vegetation of the once scarlet-gorgeous plaza.
Now your metal is that of Helium.
What means it?" The man looked at her with a grin. "The Prince of Helium is no fool," he said. Just then an officer emerged from the tiny cabin.
There was but a single answer.
Such was the nature of their work that they must needs seek the seclusion that a dead city afforded.
Have her in readiness upon the plaza-else he will never land.
The moment he finds that he is in a strange country he will turn about-methinks the prince's plan is weak in this one spot." "There was no other way," replied the other.
Then he led her out into the night toward the centre of the great plaza. "Stand here," he commanded, "until we come for you.
We shall be watching, and should you attempt to escape it will go ill with you-much worse than death.
Fully fifteen feet towered his great height from sole to pate.
An unwonted sound had reached them.
And where there were voices, outside of Torquas, there, too, were enemies.
All the world of wide Barsoom contained naught but enemies for the fierce Torquasians. Thar Ban dismounted.
A red warrior was conversing with her.
Now the man turned and retraced his steps toward the palace at the opposite side of the plaza. Thar Ban watched until he had disappeared within the yawning portal. Here was a captive worth having!
Seldom did a female of their hereditary enemies fall to the lot of a green man.
Thar Ban licked his thin lips. Thuvia of Ptarth watched the shadow behind the monolith at the opening to the avenue opposite her.
She hoped that it might be but the figment of an overwrought imagination. But no!
Now, clearly and distinctly, she saw it move.
It came from behind the screening shelter of the ersite shaft. The sudden light of the rising sun fell upon it.
The _thing_ was a huge green warrior! Swiftly it sprang toward her.
There was a sharp explosion.
Then a lofty minaret shut the drifting quarry from his view. In the distance before him Carthoris could see the green warrior bearing Thuvia of Ptarth away upon his mighty thoat.
The direction of his flight was toward the north-west of Aaanthor, where lay a mountainous country little known to red men. The Heliumite now gave his attention to his injured craft.
It was a huge banth, one of those savage Barsoomian lions that roam the desolate hills of the dying planet. The creature's nose was close to the ground.
It was evident that he was following the spoor of meat by scent. As Carthoris watched him, a great hope leaped into the man's heart. Here, possibly, might lie the solution to the mystery he had been endeavouring to solve.
This hungry carnivore, keen always for the flesh of man, might even now be trailing the two whom Carthoris sought. Cautiously the youth crept out upon the trail of the man-eater.
Not again was he to be cheated as the man had cheated him.
Beside him was a small, flat boulder, not larger than the deck of a ten-man flier, nor standing to a greater height than twice his own stature. Perhaps the banth was in hiding behind this?
The brute might have discovered the man upon his trail, and even now be lying in wait for his easy prey. Cautiously, with drawn long-sword, Carthoris crept around the corner of the rock.
There was no banth there, but something which surprised him infinitely more than would the presence of twenty banths. Before him yawned the mouth of a dark cave leading downward into the ground.
Through this the banth must have disappeared.
Another banth had entered the passageway on _his_ trail! His position was anything but pleasant.
Presently he should have to do battle with one, or both.
More firmly he gripped his weapon. Now he could hear the breathing of the banth at his heels.
Blazing out of the darkness, seemingly not ten paces behind, glared two flaming points of fire.
Then it turned to charge once more; but this time Carthoris saw but a single gleaming point of fiery hate directed upon him. Again the needle point met its flashing target.
He heard the scraping of the padded feet upon the rocky floor.
Yet he could not, would not believe it. It was impossible that that radiant creature could have met so hideous an end.
Beside him he dragged a captive, and as the surrounding warriors parted to let the two pass, Carthoris caught a fleeting glimpse of the prisoner. His heart leaped in rejoicing.
He saw Hortan Gur address her.
From every point rose similar savage cries, until the world seemed to tremble to their reverberations. The green warriors looked nervously this way and that.
They knew not fear, as Earth men may know it; but in the face of the unusual their wonted self-assurance deserted them. And then the great gate in the city wall opposite the platform of Hortan Gur swung suddenly wide.
Ah, the subtleness of it, and the speed! All about was turmoil and confusion.
Green warriors were leaping to the backs of their restive, squealing thoats.
There could be but one explanation: the missiles were poison-tipped. Presently the sounds of conflict died in the distant forest.
Quiet reigned, broken only by the growling of the devouring banths.
Carthoris turned toward Thuvia of Ptarth.
As yet neither had spoken. "Where are we, Thuvia?" he asked. The girl looked at him questioningly.
His very presence had seemed to proclaim a guilty knowledge of her abduction.
How else might he have known the destination of the flier that brought her! "Who should know better than the Prince of Helium?" she asked in return.
Before I left Helium some one tampered with my compass, so that it bore me to Aaanthor instead of to Ptarth.
You believe me?" "But the warriors who stole me from the garden!" she exclaimed.
After we arrived at Aaanthor they wore the metal of the Prince of Helium. When they took me they were trapped in Dusarian harness.
There seemed but a single explanation.
But let me be entirely honest with you.
Her breast was rising and falling as though to some resistless emotion.
She half took a step toward him.
The girl noted it, and the little smile that touched his lips, so that it became her turn to be hurt. Of course she had not meant to hurt him.
He might have known that after what he had said she could not do anything to encourage him!
But he need not have made his indifference quite so palpable.
The men of Helium were noted for their gallantry-not for boorishness.
I do not know." "Nor I," replied the girl.
Let us hope that they prove friendly.
What race may they be?
Only in the most ancient of our legends and in the mural paintings of the deserted cities of the dead sea-bottoms are depicted such a race of auburn-haired, fair-skinned people.
Can it be that we have stumbled upon a surviving city of the past which all Barsoom believes buried beneath the ages?" Thuvia was looking toward the forest into which the green men and the pursuing bowmen had disappeared.
But how about the wounded nearer the city?
Then he pointed toward the field. "Where are they?" he whispered. "_What has become of their dead and wounded?_" CHAPTER VI. THE JEDDAK OF LOTHAR The girl looked her incredulity. "They lay in piles," she murmured.
Thousands of dead lay there upon the field but a moment since.
It would have required many hours to have removed them.
The thing is uncanny." "I had hoped," said Thuvia, "that we might find an asylum with these fair-skinned people.
Notwithstanding their valour upon the field of battle, they did not strike me as a ferocious or warlike people.
I had been about to suggest that we seek entrance to the city, but now I scarce know if I care to venture among people whose dead vanish into thin air." "Let us chance it," replied Carthoris.
We can be no worse off within their walls than without.
Here we may fall prey to the banths or the no less fierce Torquasians.
There, at least, we shall find beings moulded after our own images. "All that causes me to hesitate," he added, "is the danger of taking you past so many banths.
A single sword would scarce prevail were even a couple of them to charge simultaneously." "Do not fear on that score," replied the girl, smiling.
With an angry roar the beast walked quickly in their direction, and at the sound of its voice a score of others followed its example. Carthoris drew his long-sword.
The girl stole a quick glance at his face.
I told you that the banths would not harm us.
Look!" and as she spoke she stepped quickly toward the nearest animal. Carthoris would have leaped after her to protect her, but with a gesture she motioned him back.
He heard her calling to the banths in a low, singsong voice that was half purr. Instantly the great heads went up and all the wicked eyes were riveted upon the figure of the girl.
Then, stealthily, they commenced moving toward her.
She had stopped now and was standing waiting them. One, closer to her than the others, hesitated.
I could not answer him, nor can I answer you.
They come at my call and do my bidding, even as the faithful Woola does the bidding of your mighty sire." With a word the girl dispersed the fierce pack.
No arrows protruded from the great carcasses.
Nowhere upon any of them was the sign of mortal wound, nor even slightest scratch or abrasion. Before the bowmen's dead had disappeared the corpses of the Torquasians had bristled with the deadly arrows of their foes.
Where had the slender messengers of death departed?
What unseen hand had plucked them from the bodies of the slain? Despite himself Carthoris could scarce repress a shudder of apprehension as he glanced toward the silent city before them.
No longer was sign of life visible upon wall or roof top.
All was quiet-brooding, ominous quiet. Yet he was sure that eyes watched them from somewhere behind that blank wall. He glanced at Thuvia.
She was advancing with wide eyes fixed upon the city gate.
He looked in the direction of her gaze, but saw nothing. His gaze upon her seemed to arouse her as from a lethargy.
He threw an arm about her, and thus they crossed the field.
She did not draw away from him.
It is doubtful that she realized that his arm was there, so engrossed was she in the mystery of the strange city before them. They stopped before the gate.
It was a mighty thing.
There, leaning over the edge of the high wall, was a man. His hair was auburn, his skin fair-fairer even than that of John Carter, the Virginian.
His forehead was high, his eyes large and intelligent. The language that he used was intelligible to the two below, yet there was a marked difference between it and their Barsoomian tongue. "Who are you?" he asked.
And what do you here before the gate of Lothar?" "We are friends," replied Carthoris.
This be the princess, Thuvia of Ptarth, who was captured by the Torquasian horde.
I am Carthoris of Helium, Prince of the house of Tardos Mors, Jeddak of Helium, and son of John Carter, Warlord of Mars, and of his wife, Dejah Thoris." "'Ptarth'?" repeated the man.
I never have heard of these places, nor did I know that there dwelt upon Barsoom a race of thy strange colour.
Where may these cities lie, of which you speak?
From our loftiest tower we have never seen another city than Lothar." Carthoris pointed toward the north-east. "In that direction lie Helium and Ptarth," he said.
Helium is over eight thousand haads from Lothar, while Ptarth lies nine thousand five hundred haads north-east of Helium."[1] Still the man shook his head. "I know of nothing beyond the Lotharian hills," he said.
Naught may live there beside the hideous green hordes of Torquas.
They have conquered all Barsoom except this single valley and the city of Lothar. Here we have defied them for countless ages, though periodically they renew their attempts to destroy us.
About him were a hundred or more men of the same race. All were clothed in flowing robes and all were beardless. Their attitude was more of fearful suspicion than antagonism.
He asked their host. The man smiled. "No creature other than a score or so of our sacred banths has left Lothar to-day," he replied. "But the soldiers-the bowmen!" exclaimed Carthoris.
They have returned through another gate, or perchance these be the troops that remained to defend the city?" Again the fellow smiled his uncanny smile. "There are no soldiers in Lothar," he said.
They, too, were unreal?" The man nodded. "But their arrows slew the green warriors," insisted Thuvia. "Let us go before Tario," replied the Lotharian.
He will tell you that which he deems it best you know.
Few people were in evidence.
Carthoris could not but note the deserted appearance of the mighty city. At last they came to the royal palace.
He could not be mistaken.
Before the massive gate stood a score of sentries.
Within, the avenue leading to the main building was lined on either side by ranks of bowmen.
The gardens were dotted with officers and soldiers moving quickly to and fro, as though bent upon the duties of the minute. What manner of people were these who could conjure an army out of thin air?
She, too, evidently had witnessed the transformation. With a little shudder she pressed more closely toward him. "What do you make of it?" she whispered.
It is most uncanny." "I cannot account for it," replied Carthoris, "unless we have gone mad." Carthoris turned quickly toward the Lotharian.
The fellow was smiling broadly. "I thought that you just said that there were no soldiers in Lothar," said the Heliumite, with a gesture toward the guardsmen.
What are these?" "Ask Tario," replied the other.
He was standing erect, with high-held head and arms folded across his broad chest.
They tell strange tales of cities far beyond Lothar." "Arise, Jav," commanded Tario, "and ask these two why they show not to Tario the respect that is his due." Jav arose and faced the strangers.
At sight of their erect positions his face went livid.
He leaped toward them. "Creatures!" he screamed.
Down upon your bellies before the last of the jeddaks of Barsoom!" [1] On Barsoom the _ad_ is the basis of linear measurement.
It is the equivalent of an Earthly foot, measuring about 11.694 Earth inches.
As has been my custom in the past, I have generally translated Barsoomian symbols of time, distance, etc., into their Earthly equivalent, as being more easily understood by Earth readers.
A karad is one degree.
A sofad about 1.17 Earth inches. CHAPTER VII. THE PHANTOM BOWMEN As Jav leaped toward him Carthoris laid his hand upon the hilt of his long-sword.
The great apartment was empty save for the four at the dais, yet as Jav stepped back from the menace of the Heliumite's threatening attitude the latter found himself surrounded by a score of bowmen. From whence had they sprung?
Both Carthoris and Thuvia looked their astonishment. Now the former's sword leaped from its scabbard, and at the same instant the bowmen drew back their slim shafts. Tario had half raised himself upon one elbow.
His steel had cut but empty air-his antagonist had vanished-there were no bowmen in the room! "It is evident that these are strangers," said Tario to Jav.
And this is Thuvia, Princess of Ptarth.
In the courts of our fathers men do not prostrate themselves before royalty.
Not since the First Born tore their immortal goddess limb from limb have men crawled upon their bellies to any throne upon Barsoom.
Now think you that the daughter of one mighty jeddak and the son of another would so humiliate themselves?" Tario looked at Carthoris for a long time.
At last he spoke. "There is no other jeddak upon Barsoom than Tario," he said.
There is no other race than that of Lothar, unless the hordes of Torquas may be dignified by such an appellation.
Lotharians are white; your skins are red.
There are no women left upon Barsoom.
Your companion is a woman." He half rose from the couch, leaning far forward and pointing an accusing finger at Carthoris. "You are a lie!" he shrieked.
You are both lies, and you dare to come before Tario, last and mightiest of the jeddaks of Barsoom, and assert your reality.
Some one shall pay well for this, Jav, and unless I mistake it is yourself who has dared thus flippantly to trifle with the good nature of your jeddak. "Remove the man.
We shall see if both be lies.
And later, Jav, you shall suffer for your temerity.
There be few of us left, but-Komal must be fed.
Or he will have the bowmen upon you, and this time there will be no escape.
Did you not see how futile is your steel against thin air!" Carthoris turned unwillingly to follow.
What caused you to doubt it?
But tell me, in your own country have you no bowmen to strike terror to the hearts of the green hordesmen as they slay in company with the fierce banths of war?" "We have soldiers," replied Carthoris.
We of the red race are all soldiers, but we have no bowmen to defend us, such as yours.
We defend ourselves." "You go out and get killed by your enemies!" cried Jav incredulously. "Certainly," replied Carthoris.
How do the Lotharians?" "You have seen," replied the other.
We send out our deathless archers-deathless because they are lifeless, existing only in the imaginations of our enemies.
And they die-killed by the power of suggestion." "But the archers that are slain?" exclaimed Carthoris.
You call them deathless, and yet I saw their dead bodies piled high upon the battlefield.
How may that be?" "It is but to lend reality to the scene," replied Jav.
They, too, were but creatures of suggestion?" "Some of them were real," replied Jav.
Those that accompanied the archers in pursuit of the Torquasians were unreal.
Like the archers, they never returned, but, having served their purpose, vanished with the bowmen when the rout of the enemy was assured. "Those that remained about the field were real.
Those we loosed as scavengers to devour the bodies of the dead of Torquas.
This thing is demanded by the realists among us.
Tario is an etherealist. "The etherealists maintain that there is no such thing as matter-that all is mind.
I believe, in fact I know, that there are some truly ethereal creatures.
Tario is one, I am convinced. He has no existence except in the imaginations of his people. "Of course, it is the contention of all us realists that all etherealists are but figments of the imagination.
Pray be seated and satisfy your hunger," and with a wave of his hand he indicated a bountifully laden table that had not been there an instant before he spoke.
Of that Carthoris was positive, for he had searched the room diligently with his eyes several times. "It is well," continued Jav, "that you did not fall into the hands of an etherealist.
Upon such as you now see before you have we existed since the dawn of history.
Upon such, then, may you exist." "But I thought you were a realist," exclaimed Carthoris. "Indeed," cried Jav, "what more realistic than this bounteous feast?
It is just here that we differ most from the etherealists.
Tario maintains that there is no such thing as substance, all being created from the substanceless matter of the brain. "We realists, however, know better.
We know that mind has the power to maintain substance even though it may not be able to create substance-the latter is still an open question.
And so we know that in order to maintain our physical bodies we must cause all our organs properly to function. "This we accomplish by materializing food-thoughts, and by partaking of the food thus created.
We chew, we swallow, we digest.
All our organs function precisely as if we had partaken of material food.
And what is the result?
What must be the result?
The chemical changes take place through both direct and indirect suggestion, and we live and thrive." Carthoris eyed the food before him.
He lifted a morsel to his lips.
And flavour as well. Yes, even his palate was deceived. Jav watched him, smiling, as he ate. "Is it not entirely satisfying?" he asked. "I must admit that it is," replied Carthoris.
But tell me, how does Tario live, and the other etherealists who maintain that food is unnecessary?" Jav scratched his head. "That is a question we often discuss," he replied.
It is the strongest evidence we have of the non-existence of the etherealists; but who may know other than Komal?" "Who is Komal?" asked Carthoris.
I heard your jeddak speak of him." Jav bent low toward the ear of the Heliumite, looking fearfully about before he spoke. "Komal is the essence," he whispered.
Even the etherealists admit that mind itself must have substance in order to transmit to imaginings the appearance of substance.
For if there really was no such thing as substance it could not be suggested-what never has been cannot be imagined.
Do you follow me?" "I am groping," replied Carthoris dryly. "So the essence must be substance," continued Jav.
Komal is the essence of the All, as it were.
He is maintained by substance.
He eats. He eats the real.
To be explicit, he eats the realists.
That is Tario's work. "He says that inasmuch as we maintain that we alone are real we should, to be consistent, admit that we alone are proper food for Komal. Sometimes, as to-day, we find other food for him.
He is very fond of Torquasians." "And Komal is a man?" asked Carthoris. "He is All, I told you," replied Jav.
I know not how to explain him in words that you will understand.
He is the beginning and the end.
All life emanates from Komal, since the substance which feeds the brain with imaginings radiates from the body of Komal. "Should Komal cease to eat, all life upon Barsoom would cease to be.
He cannot die, but he might cease to eat, and, thus, to radiate." "And he feeds upon the men and women of your belief?" cried Carthoris. "Women!" exclaimed Jav.
There are no women in Lothar.
Among us were no women and no children.
The intention was purely to frighten them away by the vast numbers of bowmen which we could muster upon our walls.
All Lothar bristled with the bows and arrows of our ethereal host. "But the Torquasians did not frighten.
They are lower than the beasts-they know no fear.
I made them take aim at the hearts of the green men.
I made the green men see all this, and then I made them see the arrows fly, and I made them think that the points pierced their hearts. "It was all that was necessary.
We do nothing, or rather we cause our bowmen to do nothing within sight of the enemy that is beyond the understanding of the foe.
You have seen this day how well it works.
For ages they have come down upon us at intervals, but always with the same results." "And all this is due to your intellect, Jav?" asked Carthoris.
I should think that you would be high in the councils of your people." "I am," replied Jav, proudly.
I am next to Tario." "But why, then, your cringing manner of approaching the throne?" "Tario demands it.
He is jealous of me.
He only awaits the slightest excuse to feed me to Komal.
He fears that I may some day usurp his power." Carthoris suddenly sprang from the table. "Jav!" he exclaimed.
Here I have been eating my fill, while the Princess of Ptarth may perchance be still without food.
Let us return and find some means of furnishing her with nourishment." The Lotharian shook his head. "Tario would not permit it," he said.
He will, doubtless, make an etherealist of her." "But I must go to her," insisted Carthoris.
You say that there are no women in Lothar.
Then she must be among men, and if this be so I intend to be near where I may defend her if the need arises." "Tario will have his way," insisted Jav.
Then he spoke. "Come nearer," he said, and, as she approached: "Whose creature are you?
Who has dared materialize his imaginings of woman?
It is contrary to the customs and the royal edicts of Lothar.
Tell me, woman, from whose brain have you sprung?
No, do not deny it.
I know that it could be no other than that envious realist.
He seeks to tempt me.
He would see me fall beneath the spell of your charms, and then he, your master, would direct my destiny and-my end.
I see it all!" The blood of indignation and anger had been rising to Thuvia's face. Her chin was up, a haughty curve upon her perfect lips. "I know naught," she cried, "of what you are prating!
I am Thuvia, Princess of Ptarth.
I am no man's 'creature.
Never before to-day did I lay eyes upon him you call Jav, nor upon your ridiculous city, of which even the greatest nations of Barsoom have never dreamed. "My charms are not for you, nor such as you.
They are not for sale or barter, even though the price were a real throne.
But you are _real!_ A _real_ woman!
No vain and foolish figment of the mind!" He took a step toward her, with hands outstretched. "Come!" he whispered.
For countless ages have I dreamed that some day you would come.
And now that you are here I can scarce believe the testimony of my eyes.
Even now, knowing that you are real, I still half dread that you may be a lie." Thuvia shrank back.
She thought the man mad.
Her hand stole to the jewelled hilt of her dagger.
The man saw the move, and stopped.
A cunning expression entered his eyes.
Then they became at once dreamy and penetrating as they fairly bored into the girl's brain. Thuvia suddenly felt a change coming over her.
What the cause of it she did not guess; but somehow the man before her began to assume a new relationship within her heart. No longer was he a strange and mysterious enemy, but an old and trusted friend.
Her hand slipped from the dagger's hilt.
He spoke gentle, friendly words, and she answered him in a voice that seemed hers and yet another's. He was beside her now.
His hand was upon her shoulder.
His eyes were down-bent toward hers.
She looked up into his face.
His gaze seemed to bore straight through her to some hidden spring of sentiment within her. Her lips parted in sudden awe and wonder at the strange revealment of her inner self that was being laid bare before her consciousness.
She had known Tario for ever.
He was more than friend to her.
She moved a little closer to him.
In one swift flood of light she knew the truth. She loved Tario, Jeddak of Lothar!
She had always loved him. The man, seeing the success of his strategy, could not restrain a faint smile of satisfaction.
Whether there was something in the expression of his face, or whether from Carthoris of Helium in a far chamber of the palace came a more powerful suggestion, who may say?
But the momentary contact had aroused within Tario all the long-buried passions of his loveless existence. With a muffled cry he sprang upon her, throwing his arms about her and attempting to drag her lips to his. "Woman!" he cried.
Tario would make you queen of Lothar. Listen to me!
Listen to the love of the last of the jeddaks of Barsoom." Thuvia struggled to free herself from his embrace. "Stop, creature!" she cried.
I do not love you.
Stop, or I shall scream for help!" Tario laughed in her face. "'Scream for help,'" he mimicked.
And who within the halls of Lothar is there who might come in answer to your call?
Involuntarily she gave a single cry for help, though she knew that not even Carthoris of Helium could save her now. Then she closed her eyes and waited for the end.
No slender shafts pierced her tender side.
Tario was unconscious. Thuvia was amazed.
Why had they not loosed their shafts?
She had thought him a party to her abduction.
It was with difficulty that she refrained from rushing forward to meet him. She knew that he loved her; but, in time, she recalled that she was promised to Kulan Tith.
Not even might she trust herself to show too great gratitude to the Heliumite, lest he misunderstand. Carthoris was by her side now.
He, too, took in the scene within at a glance. Carthoris turned to face him, his sword ready in his hand, and his great body shielding the slender figure of the girl. "Come, Jav of Lothar!" he cried.
I see his blood upon the floor-real blood-real death.
Tario was, after all, as real as I.
Yet he was an etherealist. He would not materialize his sustenance.
Can it be that they are right? Well, we, too, are right.
And all these ages we have been quarrelling-each saying that the other was wrong! "However, he is dead now.
Of that I am glad.
Now shall Jav come into his own.
Now shall Jav be Jeddak of Lothar!" As he finished, Tario opened his eyes and then quickly sat up. "Traitor!
Assassin!" he screamed, and then: "Kadar!
Kadar!" which is the Barsoomian for guard. Jav went sickly white.
He fell upon his belly, wriggling toward Tario. "Oh, my Jeddak, my Jeddak!" he whimpered.
Jav had no hand in this. Jav, your faithful Jav, but just this instant entered the apartment to find you lying prone upon the floor and these two strangers about to leave.
How it happened I know not.
Believe me, most glorious Jeddak!" "Cease, knave!" cried Tario.
I heard your words: 'However, he is dead now.
Now shall Jav be Jeddak of Lothar.' "At last, traitor, I have found you out.
Your own words have condemned you as surely as the acts of these red creatures have sealed their fates-unless-" He paused.
Unless the woman-" But he got no further.
He was trying to speak, but so hideously were the muscles of his face working that he could utter no word for several minutes.
At last he managed to articulate intelligibly. "Die!" he shrieked.
Die!" and then he turned toward the exit at his back. Jav leaped forward, screaming in terror. "Have pity, Tario!
Remember the long ages that I have served you faithfully.
Remember all that I have done for Lothar.
Do not condemn me now to the death hideous.
Save me!" But Tario only laughed a mocking laugh and continued to back toward the hangings that hid the little doorway. Jav turned toward Carthoris. "Stop him!" he screamed.
If you love life, let him not leave this room," and as he spoke he leaped in pursuit of his jeddak. Carthoris followed Jav's example, but the "last of the jeddaks of Barsoom" was too quick for them.
By the time they reached the arras behind which he had disappeared, they found a heavy stone door blocking their further progress. Jav sank to the floor in a spasm of terror. "Come, man!" cried Carthoris.
We are not dead yet.
Let us hasten to the avenues and make an attempt to leave the city.
We are still alive, and while we live we may yet endeavour to direct our own destinies.
Of what avail, to sink spineless to the floor?
Come, be a man!" Jav but shook his head. "Did you not hear him call the guards?" he moaned.
Ah, if we could have but intercepted him!
Then there might have been hope; but, alas, he was too quick for us." "Well, well," exclaimed Carthoris impatiently.
What if he did call the guards?
The guards have already come-and gone.
They have done their work and we are lost.
Look to the various exits." Carthoris and Thuvia turned their eyes in the direction of the several doorways which pierced the walls of the great chamber.
Each was tightly closed by huge stone doors. "Well?" asked Carthoris. "We are to die the death," whispered Jav faintly. Further than that he would not say.
Even Carthoris of Helium began to feel the terrible strain upon his nerves.
She felt safer with the feel of his arm against hers, and with the contact of her the man took a new grip upon himself.
Oh, Komal, be merciful!" Thuvia and Carthoris did not need to look at the floor to be aware of the strange movement that was taking place. Slowly the marble flagging was sinking in all directions toward the centre.
Her cheek was close to his.
Scarce had his feet touched the rough stone flagging of this new chamber than his sword flashed out ready for instant use.
But though the room was lighted, there was no sign of enemy about. Carthoris looked toward Jav.
The man was pasty white with fear. "What is to be our fate?" asked the Heliumite.
Shake off your terror long enough to tell me, so I may be prepared to sell my life and that of the Princess of Ptarth as dearly as possible." "Komal!" whispered Jav.
We are to be devoured by Komal!" "Your deity?" asked Carthoris. The Lotharian nodded his head.
Then he pointed toward a low doorway at one end of the chamber. "From thence will he come upon us.
Lay aside your puny sword, fool.
Jav had fallen to the floor, and was wriggling his body in the same servile manner that he had adopted toward Tario.
He spoke to the fierce beast as he would have spoken to a human being, pleading with it for mercy. Carthoris stepped between Thuvia and the banth, his sword ready to contest the beast's victory over them.
Thuvia turned toward Jav. "Is this Komal, your god?" she asked. Jav nodded affirmatively.
With lowered head and catlike purr, it came slinking to the girl's feet.
Thuvia turned toward Carthoris. "It is but a banth," she said.
Never have I been here before, nor ever have I cared to do so." "Come," suggested Thuvia, "let us explore.
There must be a way out." Together the three approached the doorway through which Komal had entered the apartment that was to have witnessed their deaths.
Had Tario dared it would have been here that our fates had been sealed; but he feared too much thy keen blade, red man, and so he hurled us all downward to the pit.
I did not know how closely connected were the two chambers. Now we may easily reach the avenues and the city gates.
Even in the city streets as we came through I scarce saw sign of a human being, yet all about are evidences of a mighty population." Jav sighed. "Poor Lothar," he said.
It is indeed a city of ghosts.
There are scarce a thousand of us left, who once were numbered in the millions. Our great city is peopled by the creatures of our own imaginings.
I see women and children laughing on the balconies-these we are forbidden to materialize; but yet I see them-they are here. . . .
But why not?" he mused.
No longer need I fear Tario-he has done his worst, and failed.
Why not indeed? "Stay, friends," he continued.
Where before there had been naught but deserted pavements and scarlet swards, yawning windows and tenantless doors, now swarmed a countless multitude of happy, laughing people. "It is the past," said Jav in a low voice.
See the young girls and the women smile upon them?
See the men greet them with love and respect?
Those be seafarers coming up from their ships which lie at the quays at the city's edge. "Brave men, they-ah, but the glory of Lothar has faded!
They alone bore arms, for they crossed the five seas to strange places where dangers were.
With their passing passed the martial spirit of the Lotharians, leaving, as the ages rolled by, a race of spineless cowards. "We hated war, and so we trained not our youth in warlike ways.
Thus followed our undoing, for when the seas dried and the green hordes encroached upon us we could do naught but flee.
At sight of them and the huge banth which they must have recognized as Komal, the citizens turned and fled. "They will carry word of our flight to Tario," cried Jav, "and soon he will send his bowmen after us.
Let us hope that our theory is correct, and that their shafts are powerless against minds cognizant of their unreality.
As they turned they saw a company of bowmen debouching upon the plain from the gate through which they had but just passed. Upon the wall above the gate were a number of Lotharians, among whom Jav recognized Tario.
The jeddak stood glaring at them, evidently concentrating all the forces of his trained mind upon them.
That he was making a supreme effort to render his imaginary creatures deadly was apparent. Jav turned white, and commenced to tremble.
At the crucial moment he appeared to lose the courage of his conviction.
The great banth turned back toward the advancing bowmen and growled.
Carthoris placed himself between Thuvia and the enemy and, facing them, awaited the outcome of their charge. Suddenly an inspiration came to Carthoris. "Hurl your own bowmen against Tario's!" he cried to Jav.
One could almost have sworn the man believed these creatures of his strange hypnotic power to be real flesh and blood. With hoarse battle cries they charged the bowmen of Tario.
Barbed shafts flew thick and fast.
Men fell, and the ground was red with gore. Carthoris and Thuvia had difficulty in reconciling the reality of it all with their knowledge of the truth.
The latter cast a glance toward Jav. "Come!" he whispered to the girl.
Let them fight out their empty battle-neither, evidently, has power to harm the other.
They are like two controversialists hurling words at one another.
While they are engaged we may as well be devoting our energies to an attempt to find the passage through the cliffs to the plain beyond." As he spoke, Jav, turning from the battle for an instant, caught his words.
He saw the girl move to accompany the Heliumite.
A cunning look leaped to the Lotharian's eyes. The thing that lay beyond that look had been deep in his heart since first he had laid eyes upon Thuvia of Ptarth.
Why not permit them simply to dissolve into thin air until you again require their futile service?" "You do not understand them," replied Jav.
While they exist they are real.
I do but call them into being now, and in a way direct their general actions.
But thereafter, until I dissolve them, they are as actual as you or I.
Their officers command them, under my guidance.
I am the general-that is all.
It is generally supposed that the etherealists have quite a few among their number who are permanent materializations.
It is even said that such is Tario, but that cannot be, for he existed before we had discovered the full possibilities of suggestion. "There are others among us who insist that none of us is real.
That we could not have existed all these ages without material food and water had we ourselves been material.
I eat, I sleep"-he paused, casting a meaning look upon the girl-"I love!" Thuvia could not mistake the palpable meaning of his words and expression.
She turned away with a little shrug of disgust that was not lost upon the Lotharian. He came close to her and seized her arm. "Why not Jav?" he cried.
Who more honourable than the second of the world's most ancient race?
He has deserted you to your fate to save himself.
I tell you he has fled the valley.
He has left you to your fate.
But Jav will see that it is a pleasant one.
To-morrow we shall return into Lothar at the head of my victorious army, and I shall be jeddak and you shall be my consort. Come!
And he attempted to crush her to his breast. The girl struggled to free herself, striking at the man with her metal armlets.
Then it was that Carthoris turned to speak to the girl at his side. They must plan together for the future.
Jav had caused him to believe that Thuvia was accompanying him through the wood while, as a matter of fact, he had detained the girl for himself! Carthoris was horrified.
No myriad bowmen camped now beneath the overhanging verdure of the giant trees.
No gory heaps of tortured dead defaced the beauty of the scarlet sward.
Carthoris turned the figure over upon its back.
Answer me, man, or I complete the work that another has so well begun." "Komal," muttered Jav.
He sprang upon me . . . and would have devoured me but for the girl.
All that interested him at present was the finding of Thuvia of Ptarth.
A strange thing has happened to me.
For ages Tario has been bringing me into existence as he needed the services of the army of his mind.
Of all the bowmen it has been Kar Komak who has been oftenest materialized. "For a long time Tario has been concentrating his mind upon my permanent materialization.
I have no love for Tario.
Being a creature of his mind, I know him too well.
He is cruel and tyrannical-a master I have no desire to serve.
Now that he has succeeded in accomplishing my permanent materialization, he will be unbearable, and he will go on until he has filled Lothar with his creatures.
I have seen her there.
But for her sake I hope that Tario succeeds not so well with her as he has with me. "Now, red man, I have told you of myself-what of you?" Carthoris liked the face and manner of the bowman.
Kar Komak will accompany you.
Had you really a former actual existence?" "Most assuredly," replied Kar Komak.
In my day I commanded the fleets of Lothar-mightiest of all the fleets that sailed the five salt seas. "Wherever men lived upon Barsoom there was the name of Kar Komak known and respected.
Never had I much respect for the landsmen of my day.
They remained in their walled cities wasting their time in play, depending for their protection entirely upon the sea race.
And the poor creatures who remain, the Tarios and Javs of Lothar, are even worse than their ancient forbears." Carthoris was a trifle skeptical as to the wisdom of permitting the stranger to attach himself to him.
For a moment they watched them intently.
Then Carthoris, convinced, leaped forward at a rapid run, Kar Komak following as swiftly as he could. The Heliumite shouted to attract the girl's attention, and presently he was rewarded by seeing her turn and stand looking toward him.
With shouts of encouragement to his new friend, he hurried onward toward the Prince of Helium.
The red man's heart leaped in response to this exhibition of courage and self-sacrifice.
Nor could she account for it while her mind still tried to convince her heart that the Prince of Helium had been instrumental in her abduction from her father's court.
She only knew that she was glad when he was by her side, and that with him there all things seemed possible-even such impossible things as escape from her present predicament. Now had he stopped, panting, before her.
There was but a moment before the green warriors would be upon them. "Forgive me!" said the man in a low voice.
Then he rose and slowly left the structure.
Then the clanging of a chain, and a noise as of the snapping back against stone of a broken link. Again came silence.
But for a moment only.
Now he heard once more the soft feet approaching him.
He thought that he discerned wicked eyes gleaming fearfully at him through the darkness.
He knew that he could hear the heavy breathing of powerful lungs. Then came the rush of many feet toward him, and the _things_ were upon him. Hands terminating in manlike fingers clutched at his throat and arms and legs.
It was Kar Komak, the bowman. "Kaor!" cried Carthoris, in response.
How came you here, and what befell the princess?" "Red men like yourself descended in mighty ships that sailed the air, even as the great ships of my distant day sailed the five seas," replied Kar Komak.
They fought with the green men of Torquas.
They slew Komal, god of Lothar.
Afterward came these and dragged me hither.
These creatures are born man-eaters.
Why they have not already devoured us I cannot imagine-there!" he whispered.
Oh, for a long-sword!" "Or a good bow," added Kar Komak, "and a utan of bowmen." At the words Carthoris half sprang to his feet, only to be dragged roughly down by his guard. "Kar Komak!" he cried.
Why cannot you do what Tario and Jav did?
They had no bowmen other than those of their own creation.
You must know the secret of their power.
The Heliumite's fingers were working as he kept his eyes upon his executioner.
Kar Komak bent his gaze penetratingly upon the apes.
Then the apes closed with their adversaries.
All their attention was occupied by the attackers-even the guard had deserted the prisoners to join in the battle. "Come!" whispered Kar Komak.
They will vanish, unscathed, when we have no further need for them.
Praised be your first ancestor, redman, that you thought of this chance in time!
It would never have occurred to me to imagine that I might wield the same power that brought me into existence." "You are right," said Carthoris.
To retreat now would be impossible.
Yet to cross through that roomful of sleeping warriors seemed almost equally beyond the pale of possibility. Carthoris shrugged his broad shoulders and chose the lesser evil. Warily he entered the room.
At his right, against the wall, leaned several swords and rifles and spears-extra weapons which the warriors had stacked here ready to their hands should there be a night alarm calling them suddenly from slumber.
Beside each sleeper lay his weapon-these were never far from their owners from childhood to death. The sight of the swords made the young man's palm itch.
Then a fellow directly in his path turned restlessly upon his sleeping silks and furs. The Heliumite paused above him, one of the short-swords in readiness should the warrior awaken.
In an instant the room was in turmoil.
The Thurds are upon us!
Rise, warriors of Torquas, and drive home your swords within the hearts of Torquas' ancient enemies!" Instantly the green men began to fall upon one another with naked swords.
Their savage lust of battle was aroused.
To fight, to kill, to die with cold steel buried in their vitals!
Ah, that to them was Nirvana. Carthoris was quick to guess their error and take advantage of it.
By your appearance I take you for a fighting man, but I see no insignia upon your harness.
Can it be that you are a panthan?" Now, these wandering soldiers of fortune are common upon Barsoom, where most men love to fight.
In the intervals they wear no insignia, their war-worn harness and grim weapons being sufficient to attest their calling. The suggestion was a happy one, and Carthoris embraced the chance it afforded to account satisfactorily for himself.
There was, however, a single drawback.
Jav looked, too. What they saw filled each with apprehension.
It was Komal, the banth-god, rushing wide-jawed upon them! Which had he chosen for his prey?
But his flight was of short duration.
In a moment Komal was upon him, rending his throat and chest with demoniacal fury. The girl reached their side a moment later, but it was with difficulty that she tore the mad beast from its prey.
Bravely she tried to believe that she did; but all the while her eyes wandered through the coming darkness for the figure of a clean-limbed fighting man-black-haired and grey-eyed.
Black was the hair of Kulan Tith; but his eyes were brown. It was almost dark when she found the entrance to the tunnel.
Safely she passed through to the hills beyond, and here, under the bright light of Mars' two moons, she halted to plan her future action. Should she wait here in the hope that Carthoris would return in search of her?
Or should she continue her way north-east toward Ptarth?
Where, first, would Carthoris have gone after leaving the valley of Lothar? Her parched throat and dry tongue gave her the answer-toward Aaanthor and water.
Well, she, too, would go first to Aaanthor, where she might find more than the water she needed. With Komal by her side she felt little fear, for he would protect her from all other savage beasts.
Even the great white apes would flee the mighty banth in terror.
She was, indeed, alone now.
There was none to protect her. The Dusarian warriors dragged her to the deck of the nearest flier.
All about them the green warriors surged in an attempt to wrest her from the red. At last those who had not died in the conflict gained the decks of the two craft.
The engines throbbed and purred-the propellers whirred. Quickly the swift boats shot heavenward. Thuvia of Ptarth glanced about her.
A man stood near, smiling down into her face.
With a gasp of recognition she looked full into his eyes, and then with a little moan of terror and understanding she buried her face in her hands and sank to the polished skeel-wood deck.
Scarce had they risen above Aaanthor than she recognized one of the crew as a member of the crew of that other flier that had borne her from her father's gardens to Aaanthor.
The presence of Astok upon the craft settled the whole question.
She had been stolen by emissaries of the Dusarian prince-Carthoris of Helium had had nothing to do with it. Nor did Astok deny the charge when she accused him.
It would cost me my throne, Astok, and that I have no mind to lose. "If we had her here-" the elder man suddenly commenced to muse, repeating the phrase again and again.
If we had her here, Astok," he exclaimed fiercely.
Ah, if we but had her here and none knew that she was here!
Can you not guess, man?
Presently he continued: "You say that you know where the girl lies hid, since she was stolen from your people at Aaanthor.
Should she be found by any one of the three powers, her unsupported story would be sufficient to turn them all against us. "There is but one way, Astok," cried the older man.
You must return at once to her hiding-place and fetch her hither in all secrecy.
Return not to Dusar without her, upon pain of death!" Astok, Prince of Dusar, well knew his royal father's temper.
He knew that in the tyrant's heart there pulsed no single throb of love for any creature. Astok's mother had been a slave woman.
Nutus had never loved her.
He had never loved another.
With white face and shaking limbs he made his way to his own palace.
As he crossed the courtyard his glance chanced to wander to the great east tower looming high against the azure of the sky. At sight of it beads of sweat broke out upon his brow. Issus!
No other hand than his could be trusted to do the horrid thing. With his own fingers he must crush the life from that perfect throat, or plunge the silent blade into the red, red heart. Her heart!
The heart that he had hoped would brim with love for him! But had it done so?
He recalled the haughty contempt with which his protestations of love had been received.
He went cold and then hot to the memory of it.
He turned his steps toward the tower.
The thought of it filled him with rage.
Why not finish her now and have it done with? At the sound of his step she turned quickly toward him.
Ah, how beautiful she was!
His sudden determination faded beneath the glorious light of her wondrous beauty.
He would wait until he had returned from his little journey of deception-maybe there might be some other way then.
Some other hand to strike the blow-with that face, with those eyes before him, he could never do it.
Of that he was positive.
He had always gloried in the cruelty of his nature, but, Issus! he was not that cruel.
No, another must be found-one whom he could trust. He was still looking at her as she stood there before him meeting his gaze steadily and unafraid.
He felt the hot passion of his love mounting higher and higher. Why not sue once more?
If she would relent, all might yet be well.
Even if his father could not be persuaded, they could fly to Ptarth, laying all the blame of the knavery and intrigue that had thrown four great nations into war, upon the shoulders of Nutus.
And who was there that would doubt the justice of the charge? "Thuvia," he said, "I come once again, for the last time, to lay my heart at your feet.
Ptarth and Kaol and Dusar are battling with Helium because of you.
Wed me, Thuvia, and all may yet be as it should be." The girl shook her head. "Wait!" he commanded, before she could speak.
They would raze our cities, leaving not one stone upon another.
Nutus, the jeddak, has so decreed.
I have spoken." For a long moment the girl let her level gaze rest full upon the face of Astok of Dusar.
The next to enter this apartment will be your executioner.
He could not guess that within a few hours he would be blessing the fate that had thrown him into the service of Dusar. "Ah!" exclaimed Hal Vas.
Here is my father now.
Where before had he seen that giant figure, that taciturn countenance, and the livid sword-cut from temple to mouth? "Vas Kor," repeated Carthoris mentally.
Here Carthoris slept, and Kar Komak, too, with the other recruits, under guard of the regular Dusarian warriors that manned the craft. Toward midnight Vas Kor returned to the vessel from his son's house, repairing at once to his cabin.
Carthoris, with one of the Dusarians, was on watch.
It was with difficulty that the Heliumite repressed a cold smile as the noble passed within a foot of him-within a foot of the long, slim, Heliumitic blade that swung in his harness. How easy it would have been!
HE must pay the penalty; and who better than Vas Kor could lead the Prince of Helium to Astok of Dusar? Faintly out of the night there came to Carthoris's ears the purring of a distant motor.
I would know her in the blackness of the pits among ten thousand other craft." "Right you are!" exclaimed Vas Kor, who had come on deck.
And then he hailed: "Kaor, _Thuria_!" "Kaor!" came presently from above after a brief silence.
Then: "What ship?" "Cruiser-transport Kalksus, Vas Kor of Dusar." "Good!" came from above.
Is there safe landing alongside?" "Yes, close in to starboard.
Ever suspicious, the Dusarians stood ready to receive the visitors as friends or foes as closer inspection might prove them.
Carthoris stood quite near the rail, ready to take sides with the new-comers should chance have it that they were Heliumites playing a bold stroke of strategy upon this lone Dusarian ship.
The former leaned across the rail, wishing for the hour that would bring him relief.
He did not see his companion approach the lights of the cabin of Vas Kor.
He did not see him stoop with ear close pressed to a tiny ventilator. "May the white apes take us all," cried Astok ruefully, "if we are not in as ugly a snarl as you have ever seen!
Nutus thinks that we have her in hiding far away from Dusar.
He has bidden me bring her here." He paused.
No man should have heard from his lips the thing he was trying to tell.
It should have been for ever the secret of Nutus and Astok, for upon it rested the safety of a throne.
With that knowledge any man could wrest from the Jeddak of Dusar whatever he listed. But Astok was afraid, and he wanted from this older man the suggestion of an alternative.
He went on. "I am to kill her," he whispered, looking fearfully around.
Nutus merely wishes to see the body that he may know his commands have been executed.
I am now supposed to be gone to the spot where we have her hidden that I may fetch her in secrecy to Dusar.
None is to know that she has ever been in the keeping of a Dusarian.
I do not need to tell you what would befall Dusar should Ptarth and Helium and Kaol ever learn the truth." The jaws of the listener at the ventilator clicked together with a vicious snap.
Before he had but guessed at the identity of the subject of this conversation.
And they were to kill her!
His muscular fingers clenched until the nails bit into the palms. "And you wish me to go with you while you fetch her to Dusar," Vas Kor was saying.
Where is she?" Astok bent close and whispered into the other's ear.
The suggestion of a smile crossed the cruel features of Vas Kor.
He realized the power that lay within his grasp.
He should be a jed at least. "And how may I help you, my Prince?" asked the older man suavely. "I cannot kill her," said Astok.
It would doubtless be not difficult for you to find a jed you do not love, Astok-there are many who do not love you." Already Vas Kor was commencing to presume upon his power over the young prince.
Astok was quick to note and appreciate the subtle change in his lieutenant.
A cunning scheme entered his weak and wicked brain. "As you say, Vas Kor!" he exclaimed.
Or, better still, come you to Dusar upon the _Thuria_, leaving the Kalksus to follow and pick up the recruits." "Yes," acquiesced Vas Kor; "that is the better plan.
Come; I am ready," and he rose to accompany Astok to the latter's flier. The listener at the ventilator came to his feet slowly, like an old man.
His face was drawn and pinched and very white beneath the light copper of his skin.
And he helpless to avert the tragedy.
He did not even know where she was imprisoned. The two men were ascending from the cabin to the deck.
Turjun, the panthan, crept close to the companionway, his sinuous fingers closing tightly upon the hilt of his dagger.
Could he despatch them both before he was overpowered?
He could slay an entire utan of her enemies in his present state of mind. They were almost abreast of him now.
Astok was speaking. "Bring a couple of your men along, Vas Kor," he said.
We are short-handed upon the _Thuria_, so quickly did we depart." The panthan's fingers dropped from the dagger's hilt.
His quick mind had grasped here a chance for succouring Thuvia of Ptarth.
He might be chosen as one to accompany the assassins, and once he had learned where the captive lay he could dispatch Astok and Vas Kor as well as now.
The other was not Carthoris. The Heliumite was mad with disappointment.
Carthoris walked close to the left side of the latter.
Now they came to the dense shadow under the side of the _Thuria_.
It was very dark there, so that they had to grope for the ladder. Kar Komak preceded the Dusarian.
His eyes went wide as they rested upon the face of the young man whom he had met beside the granite cliffs that guard mysterious Lothar.
How had he come in place of the Dusarian? A quick sign, and Kar Komak turned once more to find the _Thuria_'s dwar that he might report himself for duty.
Some time before they reached their destination they met and spoke with another Dusarian war flier.
Four jeddaks were in direct command of their own fleets-Kulan Tith of Kaol, Thuvan Dihn of Ptarth, and Nutus of Dusar upon one side; while upon the other was Tardos Mors, Jeddak of Helium.
With the latter was John Carter, Warlord of Mars. From the far north another force was moving south across the barrier cliffs-the new navy of Talu, Jeddak of Okar, coming in response to the call from the warlord.
Upon the decks of the sullen ships of war black-bearded yellow men looked over eagerly toward the south.
Or, would Helium need them? Carthoris, with the other members of the crew of the _Thuria_, heard the gossip and the rumours.
You are my only friend among a nation of enemies.
Will you stand by me?" "To the death," replied Kar Komak. The two approached the drop.
A slave operated it. "Where are your passes?" he asked. Carthoris fumbled in his pocket pouch as though in search of them, at the same time entering the cage.
Kar Komak followed him, closing the door.
The slave did not start the cage downward.
Opening the door, he grasped the still form of the slave and pushed it out upon the floor.
The door and the lock were impregnable.
And they had stripped her of her weapons so that she could not even anticipate the hour of her doom, thus robbing them of the satisfaction of witnessing her last moments. When would they come?
Would Astok do the deed with his own hands?
She doubted that he had the courage for it.
And with whom would an affianced bride compare an unsuccessful suitor?
The other, noting it, flushed. "Do not impose too far upon my friendship for you, Vas Kor," he snapped.
There is a limit to my patience." "There is no question of royal prerogative here," returned Vas Kor. "You ask me to become an assassin in your stead, and against your jeddak's strict injunctions.
You are in no position, Astok, to dictate to me; but rather should you be glad to accede to my reasonable request that you be present, thus sharing the guilt with me.
The noble drew his short-sword and crossed the room toward Thuvia. "Kneel!" he commanded. "I prefer to die standing," she replied. "As you will," said Vas Kor, feeling the point of his blade with his left thumb.
The fellow brushed past Astok with an: "After him, you-calot!" Vas Kor wheeled to meet the charging man. "What means this treason?" he cried. Astok, with bared sword, leaped to Vas Kor's assistance.
But he fought not like a man at bay.
The noble was bleeding from a dozen wounds.
Astok saw that he could not for long withstand the cunning craft of that terrible sword hand. "Courage, Vas Kor!" he whispered in the other's ear.
Carthoris, fearful lest Vas Kor might similarly elude him, or Astok return immediately with reinforcements, sprang viciously in upon his antagonist, and a moment later the headless body of the Dusarian noble rolled upon the ersite floor. "Come!" cried Carthoris.
There is no time to be lost.
Would he reach the door in time?
What if the Heliumite should have already emerged and he should run upon him in the passageway?
Astok felt a cold chill run up his spine.
He had no stomach to face that uncanny blade. He was almost at the door.
Around the next turn of the corridor it stood.
No, they had not left the apartment.
Evidently Vas Kor was still holding the Heliumite! Astok could scarce repress a grin at the clever manner in which he had outwitted the noble and disposed of him at the same time.
One against a score now, for other Dusarian craft had joined in the pursuit; but Astok, Prince of Dusar, had built well when he built the _Thuria_.
With the aid of powerful glasses, the Heliumite saw that they were green warriors, and that they were repeatedly charging down upon the crew of the stranded airship.
The craft may even be of Dusar-she shows no insignia.
Immediately a device fluttered from the bow of the warship on the ground.
It will need both Kar Komak and myself to man the guns while the Kaolians take to the boarding tackle.
Keep her bow depressed against the rifle fire.
She can bear it better in her forward armour, and at the same time the propellers will be protected." He hurried to the cabin as Thuvia took the control.
A moment later the boarding tackle dropped from the keel of the _Thuria_, and from a dozen points along either side stout, knotted leathern lines trailed downward.
At the same time a signal broke from her bow: "Prepare to board us." A shout arose from the deck of the Kaolian warship.
Carthoris, who by this time had returned from the cabin, smiled sadly.
At any moment the repulsive ray tanks might be pierced.
The men upon the Kaolian ship were battling with renewed hope.
In the bow stood Kulan Tith, a brave figure fighting beside his brave warriors, beating back the ferocious green men. The _Thuria_ came low above the other craft.
Carthoris, seeing him thus, felt a pang of regret that, after all, this man that he had thought so valorous should prove, in the hour of need, as spineless as Jav or Tario. "Kar Komak-the man!" he shouted.
Remember the days of the glory of the seafarers of Lothar.
Fight as never man fought before.
All that remains to us is to die fighting." Kar Komak turned toward the Heliumite, a grim smile upon his lips. "Why should we fight," he asked.
There is another way-a better way.
He pointed toward the companion-way that led below deck. The green men, a handful of them, had already reached the _Thuria_'s deck, as Carthoris glanced in the direction the Lotharian had indicated.
The sight that met his eyes set his heart to thumping in joy and relief-Thuvia of Ptarth might yet be saved?
For from below there poured a stream of giant bowmen, grim and terrible.
Not the bowmen of Tario or Jav, but the bowmen of an odwar of bowmen-savage fighting men, eager for the fray. The green warriors paused in momentary surprise and consternation, but only for a moment.
Then with horrid war-cries they leaped forward to meet these strange, new foemen. A volley of arrows stopped them in their tracks.
Slowly, at first, they fell back across the ochre plain.
Kar Komak, standing upon the deck of the _Thuria_, trembled with excitement. At the top of his lungs he voiced the savage war-cry of his forgotten day.
When they have served their purpose they remain not to embarrass their masters by their presence.
Kulan Tith and his warriors are here to protect you.
My acts have constituted the proof of my honesty of purpose.
Good-bye," and he knelt at her feet, raising a bit of her harness to his lips. The girl reached out a hand and laid it upon the thick black hair of the head bent before her.
Softly she asked: "Where are you going, Carthoris?" "With Kar Komak, the bowman," he replied.
Stay-I love you!" A cough behind them brought both about, and there they saw standing, not two paces from them Kulan Tith, Jeddak of Kaol. For a long moment none spoke.
Then Kulan Tith cleared his throat. "I could not help hearing all that passed," he said.
I am no fool, to be blind to the love that lies between you.
I do not condemn you.
A dead city of ancient Mars. Aisle of Hope.
An aisle leading to the court-room in Helium. Apt. An Arctic monster.
Its head and mouth are similar in appearance to those of a hippopotamus, except that from the sides of the lower jawbone two mighty horns curve slightly downward toward the front.
Each ocellus is furnished with its own lid, and the apt can, at will, close as many of the facets of his huge eyes as he chooses. (See THE WARLORD OF MARS.) Astok.
Prince of Dusar. Avenue of Ancestors.
A street in Helium. Banth.
A fierce beast of prey that roams the low hills surrounding the dead seas of ancient Mars.
It is almost hairless, having only a great, bristly mane about its thick neck.
Its long, lithe body is supported by ten powerful legs, its enormous jaws are equipped with several rows of long needle-like fangs, and its mouth reaches to a point far back of its tiny ears.
It has enormous protruding eyes of green. (See THE GODS OF MARS.) Bar Comas.
Jeddak of Warhoon. (See A PRINCESS OF MARS.) Barsoom.
MARS. Black pirates of Barsoom.
Men six feet and over in height.
Have clear-cut and handsome features; their eyes are well set and large, though a slight narrowness lends them a crafty appearance.
The iris is extremely black while the eyeball itself is quite white and clear. Their skin has the appearance of polished ebony. (See THE GODS OF MARS.) Calot.
Warlord of Mars. Carthoris of Helium.
Son of John Carter and Dejah Thoris. Dak Kova.
Jed among the Warhoons (later jeddak). Darseen.
Chief or prince among the First Born. Dejah Thoris.
Princess of Helium. Djor Kantos.
Son of Kantos Kan; padwar of the Fifth Utan. Dor.
Valley of Heaven. Dotar Sojat.
John Carter's Martian name, from the surnames of the first two warrior chieftains he killed. Dusar.
A kind of stone. Father of Therns.
High Priest of religious cult. First Born.
Black race; black pirates. Kar Komak.
Odwar of Lotharian bowmen. Gate of Jeddaks.
A gate in Helium. Gozava.
Tars Tarkas' dead wife. Gur Tus.
Dwar of the Tenth Utan. Haad.
Son of Vas Kor the Dusarian noble. Hastor.
A city of Helium. Hekkador.
Title of Father of Therns. Helium.
The empire of the grandfather of Dejah Thoris. Holy Therns.
A Martian religious cult. Hortan Gur.
Jeddak of Torquas. Hor Vastus.
Padwar in the navy of Helium. Horz.
Deserted city; Barsoomian Greenwich. Illall.
A city of Okar. Iss.
River of Death. (See A PRINCESS OF MARS.) Issus.
Goddess of Death, whose abode is upon the banks of the Lost Sea of Korus. (See THE GODS OF MARS.) Jav.
Jeddak of the Warhoons of the south. Kadabra.
Cruiser; transport under Vas Kor. Kantos Kan.
Padwar in the Helium navy. Kaol.
A Martian kingdom in the eastern hemisphere. Kaor.
The Lotharian god; a huge banth. Korad.
A dead city of ancient Mars. (See A PRINCESS OF MARS.) Korus.
The Lost Sea of Dor. Kulan Tith.
Jeddak of Kaol. (See THE WARLORD OF MARS.) Lakor.
A Dusarian warrior; artificer. Lorquas Ptomel.
Jed among the Tharks. (See A PRINCESS OF MARS.) Lothar.
A principality of Okar. Matai Shang.
Father of Therns. (See THE GODS OF MARS.) Mors Kajak.
A jed of lesser Helium. Notan.
Royal Psychologist of Zodanga. Nutus.
A commander, or general. Okar.
Land of the yellow men. Old Ben (or Uncle Ben).
The writer's body-servant (coloured). Omad.
Man with one name. Omean.
A black and yellow striped Arctic monster. Otz Mountains.
Surrounding the Valley Dor and the Lost Sea of Korus. Padwar.
A soldier of fortune. Parthak.
The Zodangan who brought food to John Carter in the pits of Zat Arras. (See THE GODS OF MARS.) Pedestal of Truth.
Within the courtroom of Helium. Phaidor.
Daughter of Matai Shang. (See THE GODS OF MARS.) Pimalia.
Gorgeous flowering plant. Plant men of Barsoom.
A race inhabiting the Valley Dor.
The nose is a ragged, inflamed, circular hole in the centre of the blank face, resembling a fresh bullet wound which has not yet commenced to bleed.
There is no mouth in the head.
With the exception of the face, the head is covered by a tangled mass of jet-black hair some eight or ten inches in length.
Each hair is about the thickness of a large angleworm.
The body, legs and feet are of human shape but of monstrous proportions, the feet being fully three feet long and very flat and broad.
The method of feeding consists in running their odd hands over the surface of the turf, cropping off the tender vegetation with razor-like talons and sucking it up from two mouths, which lie one in the palm of each hand.
Overlord of the navy of Ptarth. Ptarth.
Family name of three Zodangan brothers. Sab Than.
Prince of Zodanga. (See A PRINCESS OF MARS.) Safad.
Jeddak of Okar. (See THE WARLORD OF MARS.) Saran Tal.
A green Martian woman. (See A PRINCESS OF MARS.) Sator Throg.
A Holy Thern of the Tenth Cycle. Shador.
Island in Omean used as a prison. Silian.
Slimy reptiles inhabiting the Sea of Korus. Sith.
Bald-faced and about the size of a Hereford bull.
Has frightful jaws in front and mighty poisoned sting behind.
The eyes, of myriad facets, cover three-fourths of the head, permitting the creature to see in all directions at one and the same time. (See THE WARLORD OF MARS.) Skeel.
A young green Martian woman. Solan.
An official of the palace. Sompus.
A kind of tree. Sorak.
A little pet animal among the red Martian women, about the size of a cat. Sorapus.
An officer of Salensus Oll. Tal.
A Martian second. Tal Hajus.
Rebel Prince of Marentina. Tan Gama.
Grandfather of Dejah Thoris and Jeddak of Helium. Tario.
Jeddak of Lothar. Tars Tarkas.
A green man, chieftain of the Tharks. Temple of Reward.
A sphere, or plane of eminence, among the Holy Therns. Thabis.
Jeddak of Zodanga. (See A PRINCESS OF MARS.) Thark.
City and name of a green Martian horde. Thoat.
It is entirely devoid of hair and is of a dark slate colour and exceedingly smooth and glossy.
It has a white belly and the legs are shaded from slate at the shoulders and hips to a vivid yellow at the feet.
The feet are heavily padded and nailless. (See A PRINCESS OF MARS.) Thor Ban.
Jed among the green men of Torquas. Thorian.
Chief of the lesser Therns. Throne of Righteousness.
In the court-room of Helium. Throxus.
Mightiest of the five oceans. Thurds.
A green horde inimical to Torquas. _Thuria_.
A black dator. Thuvan Dihn.
Officer of the guards at submarine pool. Torkar Bar.
Kaolian noble; dwar of the Kaolian Road. Torquas.
A company of one hundred men (military). Vas Kor.
A community of green men; enemy of Thark. Woola.
Dator among the First Born. Yersted.
Commander of the submarine. Zad.
Dator of the guards of Issus. (See THE GODS OF MARS.) Zitidars.
Martian city of red men at war with Helium. Zode.
As the landscape changed from brown to green, the army awakened, and began to tremble with eagerness at the noise of rumors.
It cast its eyes upon the roads, which were growing from long troughs of liquid mud to proper thoroughfares.
He came flying back from a brook waving his garment bannerlike.
He was swelled with a tale he had heard from a reliable friend, who had heard it from a truthful cavalryman, who had heard it from his trustworthy brother, one of the orderlies at division headquarters.
He adopted the important air of a herald in red and gold. "We're goin' t' move t'morrah-sure," he said pompously to a group in the company street.
We're goin' 'way up the river, cut across, an' come around in behint 'em." To his attentive audience he drew a loud and elaborate plan of a very brilliant campaign.
When he had finished, the blue-clothed men scattered into small arguing groups between the rows of squat brown huts.
A negro teamster who had been dancing upon a cracker box with the hilarious encouragement of twoscore soldiers was deserted.
Smoke drifted lazily from a multitude of quaint chimneys. "It's a lie! that's all it is-a thunderin' lie!" said another private loudly.
His smooth face was flushed, and his hands were thrust sulkily into his trouser's pockets.
He took the matter as an affront to him.
I don't believe the derned old army's ever going to move.
I've got ready to move eight times in the last two weeks, and we ain't moved yet." The tall soldier felt called upon to defend the truth of a rumor he himself had introduced.
He and the loud one came near to fighting over it. A corporal began to swear before the assemblage.
He had just put a costly board floor in his house, he said.
During the early spring he had refrained from adding extensively to the comfort of his environment because he had felt that the army might start on the march at any moment.
Of late, however, he had been impressed that they were in a sort of eternal camp. Many of the men engaged in a spirited debate.
One outlined in a peculiarly lucid manner all the plans of the commanding general.
He was opposed by men who advocated that there were other plans of campaign. They clamored at each other, numbers making futile bids for the popular attention.
Meanwhile, the soldier who had fetched the rumor bustled about with much importance.
He was continually assailed by questions. "What's up, Jim?" "Th'army's goin' t' move." "Ah, what yeh talkin' about?
How yeh know it is?" "Well, yeh kin b'lieve me er not, jest as yeh like.
I don't care a hang." There was much food for thought in the manner in which he replied.
He came near to convincing them by disdaining to produce proofs.
They grew much excited over it. There was a youthful private who listened with eager ears to the words of the tall soldier and to the varied comments of his comrades.
After receiving a fill of discussions concerning marches and attacks, he went to his hut and crawled through an intricate hole that served it as a door.
They were grouped about the fireplace.
A picture from an illustrated weekly was upon the log walls, and three rifles were paralleled on pegs. Equipments hung on handy projections, and some tin dishes lay upon a small pile of firewood.
A folded tent was serving as a roof.
The sunlight, without, beating upon it, made it glow a light yellow shade. A small window shot an oblique square of whiter light upon the cluttered floor.
So they were at last going to fight.
On the morrow, perhaps, there would be a battle, and he would be in it.
For a time he was obliged to labor to make himself believe.
In visions he had seen himself in many struggles.
He had imagined peoples secure in the shadow of his eagle-eyed prowess.
But awake he had regarded battles as crimson blotches on the pages of the past.
He had put them as things of the bygone with his thought-images of heavy crowns and high castles.
It must be some sort of a play affair.
He had long despaired of witnessing a Greeklike struggle.
Such would be no more, he had said.
Men were better, or more timid.
Secular and religious education had effaced the throat-grappling instinct, or else firm finance held in check the passions. He had burned several times to enlist.
Tales of great movements shook the land.
They might not be distinctly Homeric, but there seemed to be much glory in them.
He had read of marches, sieges, conflicts, and he had longed to see it all.
His busy mind had drawn for him large pictures extravagant in color, lurid with breathless deeds. But his mother had discouraged him.
She had affected to look with some contempt upon the quality of his war ardor and patriotism.
She could calmly seat herself and with no apparent difficulty give him many hundreds of reasons why he was of vastly more importance on the farm than on the field of battle.
She had had certain ways of expression that told him that her statements on the subject came from a deep conviction.
Moreover, on her side, was his belief that her ethical motive in the argument was impregnable. At last, however, he had made firm rebellion against this yellow light thrown upon the color of his ambitions.
The newspapers, the gossip of the village, his own picturings, had aroused him to an uncheckable degree.
They were in truth fighting finely down there.
This voice of the people rejoicing in the night had made him shiver in a prolonged ecstasy of excitement.
Later, he had gone down to his mother's room and had spoken thus: "Ma, I'm going to enlist." "Henry, don't you be a fool," his mother had replied.
She had then covered her face with the quilt.
Ma, I've enlisted," he had said to her diffidently.
There was a short silence.
He had privately primed himself for a beautiful scene.
He had prepared certain sentences which he thought could be used with touching effect.
But her words destroyed his plans. She had doggedly peeled potatoes and addressed him as follows: "You watch out, Henry, an' take good care of yerself in this here fighting business-you watch, an' take good care of yerself.
Don't go a-thinkin' you can lick the hull rebel army at the start, because yeh can't.
Yer jest one little feller amongst a hull lot of others, and yeh've got to keep quiet an' do what they tell yeh.
I know how you are, Henry. "I've knet yeh eight pair of socks, Henry, and I've put in all yer best shirts, because I want my boy to be jest as warm and comf'able as anybody in the army.
Whenever they get holes in 'em, I want yeh to send 'em right-away back to me, so's I kin dern 'em. "An' allus be careful an' choose yer comp'ny.
There's lots of bad men in the army, Henry.
Keep clear of them folks, Henry.
I don't want yeh to ever do anything, Henry, that yeh would be 'shamed to let me know about.
Jest think as if I was a-watchin' yeh.
Watch out, and be a good boy." He had, of course, been impatient under the ordeal of this speech.
It had not been quite what he expected, and he had borne it with an air of irritation.
He departed feeling vague relief. Still, when he had looked back from the gate, he had seen his mother kneeling among the potato parings.
Her brown face, upraised, was stained with tears, and her spare form was quivering.
He bowed his head and went on, feeling suddenly ashamed of his purposes. From his home he had gone to the seminary to bid adieu to many schoolmates.
They had thronged about him with wonder and admiration.
He had felt the gulf now between them and had swelled with calm pride.
He and some of his fellows who had donned blue were quite overwhelmed with privileges for all of one afternoon, and it had been a very delicious thing.
As he had walked down the path between the rows of oaks, he had turned his head and detected her at a window watching his departure.
As he perceived her, she had immediately begun to stare up through the high tree branches at the sky.
He had seen a good deal of flurry and haste in her movement as she changed her attitude.
He often thought of it. On the way to Washington his spirit had soared.
The regiment was fed and caressed at station after station until the youth had believed that he must be a hero.
There was a lavish expenditure of bread and cold meats, coffee, and pickles and cheese.
Greeklike struggles would be no more.
Secular and religious education had effaced the throat-grappling instinct, or else firm finance held in check the passions. He had grown to regard himself merely as a part of a vast blue demonstration.
His province was to look out, as far as he could, for his personal comfort.
They were a sun-tanned, philosophical lot, who sometimes shot reflectively at the blue pickets.
When reproached for this afterward, they usually expressed sorrow, and swore by their gods that the guns had exploded without their permission.
The youth, on guard duty one night, conversed across the stream with one of them.
He was a slightly ragged man, who spat skillfully between his shoes and possessed a great fund of bland and infantile assurance.
The youth liked him personally. "Yank," the other had informed him, "yer a right dum good feller.
This sentiment, floating to him upon the still air, had made him temporarily regret war. Various veterans had told him tales.
Some talked of gray, bewhiskered hordes who were advancing with relentless curses and chewing tobacco with unspeakable valor; tremendous bodies of fierce soldiery who were sweeping along like the Huns.
Others spoke of tattered and eternally hungry men who fired despondent powders.
They'll charge through hell's fire an' brimstone t' git a holt on a haversack, an' sech stomachs ain't a'lastin' long," he was told.
From the stories, the youth imagined the red, live bones sticking out through slits in the faded uniforms. Still, he could not put a whole faith in veteran's tales, for recruits were their prey.
They talked much of smoke, fire, and blood, but he could not tell how much might be lies.
There was a more serious problem.
He lay in his bunk pondering upon it.
He tried to mathematically prove to himself that he would not run from a battle. Previously he had never felt obliged to wrestle too seriously with this question.
In his life he had taken certain things for granted, never challenging his belief in ultimate success, and bothering little about means and roads.
But here he was confronted with a thing of moment.
It had suddenly appeared to him that perhaps in a battle he might run.
As his imagination went forward to a fight, he saw hideous possibilities.
He contemplated the lurking menaces of the future, and failed in an effort to see himself standing stoutly in the midst of them.
He recalled his visions of broken-bladed glory, but in the shadow of the impending tumult he suspected them to be impossible pictures. He sprang from the bunk and began to pace nervously to and fro.
Good Lord, what's th' matter with me?" he said aloud. He felt that in this crisis his laws of life were useless.
Whatever he had learned of himself was here of no avail.
He was an unknown quantity.
He saw that he would again be obliged to experiment as he had in early youth.
They were wrangling. "That's all right," said the tall soldier as he entered.
He waved his hand expressively.
You can believe me or not, jest as you like.
All you got to do is sit down and wait as quiet as you can.
Then pretty soon you'll find out I was right." His comrade grunted stubbornly.
For a moment he seemed to be searching for a formidable reply.
Finally he said: "Well, you don't know everything in the world, do you?" "Didn't say I knew everything in the world," retorted the other sharply.
Of course there is. You jest wait 'til to-morrow, and you'll see one of the biggest battles ever was.
Didn't the cavalry all start this morning?
No one denied his statement.
The cavalry started this morning," he continued.
They say there ain't hardly any cavalry left in camp. They're going to Richmond, or some place, while we fight all the Johnnies.
It's some dodge like that.
The regiment's got orders, too.
A feller what seen 'em go to headquarters told me a little while ago.
And they're raising blazes all over camp-anybody can see that." "Shucks!" said the loud one. The youth remained silent for a time.
At last he spoke to the tall soldier.
Jim!" "What?" "How do you think the reg'ment 'll do?" "Oh, they'll fight all right, I guess, after they once get into it," said the other with cold judgment.
He made a fine use of the third person.
Of course it might happen that the hull kit-and-boodle might start and run, if some big fighting came first-off, and then again they might stay and fight like fun.
But you can't bet on nothing.
Of course they ain't never been under fire yet, and it ain't likely they'll lick the hull rebel army all-to-oncet the first time; but I think they'll fight better than some, if worse than others.
That's the way I figger.
They had a rapid altercation, in which they fastened upon each other various strange epithets. The youth at last interrupted them.
Did you ever think you might run yourself, Jim?" he asked.
On concluding the sentence he laughed as if he had meant to aim a joke.
The loud soldier also giggled. The tall private waved his hand.
Well," said he profoundly, "I've thought it might get too hot for Jim Conklin in some of them scrimmages, and if a whole lot of boys started and run, why, I s'pose I'd start and run.
And if I once started to run, I'd run like the devil, and no mistake.
But if everybody was a-standing and a-fighting, why, I'd stand and fight.
I'll bet on it." "Huh!" said the loud one. The youth of this tale felt gratitude for these words of his comrade. He had feared that all of the untried men possessed great and correct confidence.
He now was in a measure reassured. Chapter II. The next morning the youth discovered that his tall comrade had been the fast-flying messenger of a mistake.
There was much scoffing at the latter by those who had yesterday been firm adherents of his views, and there was even a little sneering by men who had never believed the rumor.
The tall one fought with a man from Chatfield Corners and beat him severely. The youth felt, however, that his problem was in no wise lifted from him.
There was, on the contrary, an irritating prolongation.
The tale had created in him a great concern for himself.
Now, with the newborn question in his mind, he was compelled to sink back into his old place as part of a blue demonstration. For days he made ceaseless calculations, but they were all wondrously unsatisfactory.
He found that he could establish nothing.
He finally concluded that the only way to prove himself was to go into the blaze, and then figuratively to watch his legs to discover their merits and faults.
He reluctantly admitted that he could not sit still and with a mental slate and pencil derive an answer.
To gain it, he must have blaze, blood, and danger, even as a chemist requires this, that, and the other.
So he fretted for an opportunity. Meanwhile, he continually tried to measure himself by his comrades.
The tall soldier, for one, gave him some assurance.
This man's serene unconcern dealt him a measure of confidence, for he had known him since childhood, and from his intimate knowledge he did not see how he could be capable of anything that was beyond him, the youth.
Still, he thought that his comrade might be mistaken about himself.
Or, on the other hand, he might be a man heretofore doomed to peace and obscurity, but, in reality, made to shine in war. The youth would have liked to have discovered another who suspected himself.
A sympathetic comparison of mental notes would have been a joy to him. He occasionally tried to fathom a comrade with seductive sentences.
He looked about to find men in the proper mood.
All attempts failed to bring forth any statement which looked in any way like a confession to those doubts which he privately acknowledged in himself.
Sometimes he inclined to believing them all heroes.
In fact, he usually admired in secret the superior development of the higher qualities in others.
He could conceive of men going very insignificantly about the world bearing a load of courage unseen, and although he had known many of his comrades through boyhood, he began to fear that his judgment of them had been blind.
It was often that he suspected them to be liars. He did not pass such thoughts without severe condemnation of himself. He dinned reproaches at times.
He was convicted by himself of many shameful crimes against the gods of traditions. In his great anxiety his heart was continually clamoring at what he considered the intolerable slowness of the generals.
They seemed content to perch tranquilly on the river bank, and leave him bowed down by the weight of a great problem.
He wanted it settled forthwith.
He could not long bear such a load, he said.
Sometimes his anger at the commanders reached an acute stage, and he grumbled about the camp like a veteran. One morning, however, he found himself in the ranks of his prepared regiment.
The men were whispering speculations and recounting the old rumors.
In the gloom before the break of the day their uniforms glowed a deep purple hue.
From across the river the red eyes were still peering.
The youth could occasionally see dark shadows that moved like monsters.
The regiment stood at rest for what seemed a long time.
It was unendurable the way these affairs were managed.
Staring once at the red eyes across the river, he conceived them to be growing larger, as the orbs of a row of dragons advancing.
He turned toward the colonel and saw him lift his gigantic arm and calmly stroke his mustache. At last he heard from along the road at the foot of the hill the clatter of a horse's galloping hoofs.
It must be the coming of orders. He bent forward, scarce breathing.
The exciting clickety-click, as it grew louder and louder, seemed to be beating upon his soul.
Presently a horseman with jangling equipment drew rein before the colonel of the regiment.
The two held a short, sharp-worded conversation.
The men in the foremost ranks craned their necks. As the horseman wheeled his animal and galloped away he turned to shout over his shoulder, "Don't forget that box of cigars!
The colonel mumbled in reply.
The youth wondered what a box of cigars had to do with war. A moment later the regiment went swinging off into the darkness.
It was now like one of those moving monsters wending with many feet.
The air was heavy, and cold with dew.
A mass of wet grass, marched upon, rustled like silk. There was an occasional flash and glimmer of steel from the backs of all these huge crawling reptiles.
From the road came creakings and grumblings as some surly guns were dragged away. The men stumbled along still muttering speculations.
There was a subdued debate.
Once a man fell down, and as he reached for his rifle a comrade, unseeing, trod upon his hand.
He of the injured fingers swore bitterly, and aloud.
A low, tittering laugh went among his fellows. Presently they passed into a roadway and marched forward with easy strides.
They were like two serpents crawling from the cavern of the night. The river was not in view.
They persisted with other theories.
There was a vigorous discussion. The youth took no part in them.
As he walked along in careless line he was engaged with his own eternal debate.
He could not hinder himself from dwelling upon it.
He was despondent and sullen, and threw shifting glances about him.
He looked ahead, often expecting to hear from the advance the rattle of firing. But the long serpents crawled slowly from hill to hill without bluster of smoke.
A dun-colored cloud of dust floated away to the right.
The sky overhead was of a fairy blue. The youth studied the faces of his companions, ever on the watch to detect kindred emotions.
Some ardor of the air which was causing the veteran commands to move with glee-almost with song-had infected the new regiment.
The men began to speak of victory as of a thing they knew.
Also, the tall soldier received his vindication.
They were certainly going to come around in behind the enemy.
He planned to load his knapsack upon it.
He was escaping with his prize when a young girl rushed from the house and grabbed the animal's mane. There followed a wrangle.
The young girl, with pink cheeks and shining eyes, stood like a dauntless statue. The observant regiment, standing at rest in the roadway, whooped at once, and entered whole-souled upon the side of the maiden.
The men became so engrossed in this affair that they entirely ceased to remember their own large war.
They jeered the piratical private, and called attention to various defects in his personal appearance; and they were wildly enthusiastic in support of the young girl. To her, from some distance, came bold advice.
Hit him with a stick." There were crows and catcalls showered upon him when he retreated without the horse.
The regiment rejoiced at his downfall.
Loud and vociferous congratulations were showered upon the maiden, who stood panting and regarding the troops with defiance. At nightfall the column broke into regimental pieces, and the fragments went into the fields to camp.
Tents sprang up like strange plants.
Camp fires, like red, peculiar blossoms, dotted the night. The youth kept from intercourse with his companions as much as circumstances would allow him.
In the evening he wandered a few paces into the gloom.
From this little distance the many fires, with the black forms of men passing to and fro before the crimson rays, made weird and satanic effects. He lay down in the grass.
The blades pressed tenderly against his cheek.
The moon had been lighted and was hung in a treetop.
The liquid stillness of the night enveloping him made him feel vast pity for himself.
He remembered he had so often cursed the brindle cow and her mates, and had sometimes flung milking stools.
But, from his present point of view, there was a halo of happiness about each of their heads, and he would have sacrificed all the brass buttons on the continent to have been enabled to return to them.
He told himself that he was not formed for a soldier.
And he mused seriously upon the radical differences between himself and those men who were dodging implike around the fires. As he mused thus he heard the rustle of grass, and, upon turning his head, discovered the loud soldier.
He called out, "Oh, Wilson!" The latter approached and looked down.
Why, hello, Henry; is it you? What are you doing here?" "Oh, thinking," said the youth. The other sat down and carefully lighted his pipe.
You're getting blue my boy.
You're looking thundering peek-ed. What the dickens is wrong with you?" "Oh, nothing," said the youth. The loud soldier launched then into the subject of the anticipated fight.
Oh, we've got 'em now!
As he spoke his boyish face was wreathed in a gleeful smile, and his voice had an exultant ring.
I don't mind marching, if there's going to be fighting at the end of it.
This time we're in for a big battle, and we've got the best end of it, certain sure.
Gee rod! how we will thump 'em!" He arose and began to pace to and fro excitedly.
The thrill of his enthusiasm made him walk with an elastic step.
He was sprightly, vigorous, fiery in his belief in success.
He looked into the future with clear proud eye, and he swore with the air of an old soldier. The youth watched him for a moment in silence.
When he finally spoke his voice was as bitter as dregs.
Oh, you're going to do great things, I s'pose!" The loud soldier blew a thoughtful cloud of smoke from his pipe.
Oh, I don't know," he remarked with dignity; "I don't know.
I s'pose I'll do as well as the rest.
I'm going to try like thunder.
He evidently complimented himself upon the modesty of this statement. "How do you know you won't run when the time comes?" asked the youth. "Run?" said the loud one; "run?-of course not!
The man that bets on my running will lose his money, that's all.
He nodded confidently. "Oh, shucks!" said the youth.
You ain't the bravest man in the world, are you?" "No, I ain't," exclaimed the loud soldier indignantly; "and I didn't say I was the bravest man in the world, neither.
I said I was going to do my share of fighting-that's what I said.
You talk as if you thought you was Napoleon Bonaparte.
He glared at the youth for a moment, and then strode away. The youth called in a savage voice after his comrade: "Well, you needn't git mad about it!
But the other continued on his way and made no reply. He felt alone in space when his injured comrade had disappeared.
His failure to discover any mite of resemblance in their viewpoints made him more miserable than before.
No one seemed to be wrestling with such a terrific personal problem.
He was a mental outcast. He went slowly to his tent and stretched himself on a blanket by the side of the snoring tall soldier.
In the darkness he saw visions of a thousand-tongued fear that would babble at his back and cause him to flee, while others were going coolly about their country's business.
He admitted that he would not be able to cope with this monster.
He felt that every nerve in his body would be an ear to hear the voices, while other men would remain stolid and deaf. And as he sweated with the pain of these thoughts, he could hear low, serene sentences.
A glaring fire wine-tinted the waters of the river.
Its rays, shining upon the moving masses of troops, brought forth here and there sudden gleams of silver or gold.
He kept his eyes watchfully upon the darkness. But his regiment went unmolested to a camping place, and its soldiers slept the brave sleep of wearied men.
Sore feet an' damned short rations, that's all," said the loud soldier.
There was perspiration and grumblings.
After a time they began to shed their knapsacks.
Some tossed them unconcernedly down; others hid them carefully, asserting their plans to return for them at some convenient time.
Men extricated themselves from thick shirts.
Presently few carried anything but their necessary clothing, blankets, haversacks, canteens, and arms and ammunition.
You can now eat and shoot," said the tall soldier to the youth.
That's all you want to do." There was sudden change from the ponderous infantry of theory to the light and speedy infantry of practice.
The regiment, relieved of a burden, received a new impetus.
But there was much loss of valuable knapsacks, and, on the whole, very good shirts. But the regiment was not yet veteranlike in appearance.
And when the men had replied that they formed a regiment and not a brigade, the older soldiers had laughed, and said, "O Gawd!" Also, there was too great a similarity in the hats.
The hats of a regiment should properly represent the history of headgear for a period of years.
And, moreover, there were no letters of faded gold speaking from the colors.
They were new and beautiful, and the color bearer habitually oiled the pole. Presently the army again sat down to think.
The odor of the peaceful pines was in the men's nostrils.
The sound of monotonous axe blows rang through the forest, and the insects, nodding upon their perches, crooned like old women.
His canteen banged rythmically upon his thigh, and his haversack bobbed softly.
His musket bounced a trifle from his shoulder at each stride and made his cap feel uncertain upon his head. He could hear the men whisper jerky sentences: "Say-what's all this-about?
What th' thunder-we-skedaddlin' this way fer?" "Billie-keep off m' feet.
And the loud soldier's shrill voice could be heard: "What th' devil they in sich a hurry for?" The youth thought the damp fog of early morning moved from the rush of a great body of troops.
From the distance came a sudden spatter of firing. He was bewildered.
As he ran with his comrades he strenuously tried to think, but all he knew was that if he fell down those coming behind would tread upon him.
All his faculties seemed to be needed to guide him over and past obstructions.
He felt carried along by a mob. The sun spread disclosing rays, and, one by one, regiments burst into view like armed men just born of the earth.
The youth perceived that the time had come.
He was about to be measured.
For a moment he felt in the face of his great trial like a babe, and the flesh over his heart seemed very thin.
He seized time to look about him calculatingly. But he instantly saw that it would be impossible for him to escape from the regiment.
And there were iron laws of tradition and law on four sides.
He was in a moving box. As he perceived this fact it occurred to him that he had never wished to come to the war.
He had not enlisted of his free will.
He had been dragged by the merciless government.
And now they were taking him out to be slaughtered. The regiment slid down a bank and wallowed across a little stream.
He scrambled up the bank with a speed that could not be exceeded by a bloodthirsty man. He expected a battle scene. There were some little fields girted and squeezed by a forest.
Spread over the grass and in among the tree trunks, he could see knots and waving lines of skirmishers who were running hither and thither and firing at the landscape.
A dark battle line lay upon a sunstruck clearing that gleamed orange color.
A flag fluttered. Other regiments floundered up the bank.
The brigade was formed in line of battle, and after a pause started slowly through the woods in the rear of the receding skirmishers, who were continually melting into the scene to appear again farther on.
They were always busy as bees, deeply absorbed in their little combats. The youth tried to observe everything.
He did not use care to avoid trees and branches, and his forgotten feet were constantly knocking against stones or getting entangled in briers.
He was aware that these battalions with their commotions were woven red and startling into the gentle fabric of softened greens and browns.
It looked to be a wrong place for a battle field. The skirmishers in advance fascinated him.
Their shots into thickets and at distant and prominent trees spoke to him of tragedies-hidden, mysterious, solemn. Once the line encountered the body of a dead soldier.
He lay upon his back staring at the sky.
He was dressed in an awkward suit of yellowish brown.
The youth could see that the soles of his shoes had been worn to the thinness of writing paper, and from a great rent in one the dead foot projected piteously.
And it was as if fate had betrayed the soldier.
In death it exposed to his enemies that poverty which in life he had perhaps concealed from his friends. The ranks opened covertly to avoid the corpse.
The invulnerable dead man forced a way for himself.
The youth looked keenly at the ashen face.
The wind raised the tawny beard.
It moved as if a hand were stroking it.
His curiosity was quite easily satisfied.
If an intense scene had caught him with its wild swing as he came to the top of the bank, he might have gone roaring on. This advance upon Nature was too calm.
He had opportunity to reflect. He had time in which to wonder about himself and to attempt to probe his sensations. Absurd ideas took hold upon him.
He thought that he did not relish the landscape.
He was certain that in this vista there lurked fierce-eyed hosts.
The swift thought came to him that the generals did not know what they were about.
It was all a trap. Suddenly those close forests would bristle with rifle barrels.
Ironlike brigades would appear in the rear.
They were all going to be sacrificed.
The enemy would presently swallow the whole command.
The generals were idiots to send them marching into a regular pen.
There was but one pair of eyes in the corps.
He would step forth and make a speech.
Shrill and passionate words came to his lips. The line, broken into moving fragments by the ground, went calmly on through fields and woods.
The youth looked at the men nearest him, and saw, for the most part, expressions of deep interest, as if they were investigating something that had fascinated them.
One or two stepped with overvaliant airs as if they were already plunged into war.
Others walked as upon thin ice.
The greater part of the untested men appeared quiet and absorbed.
They were going to look at war, the red animal-war, the blood-swollen god.
And they were deeply engrossed in this march. As he looked the youth gripped his outcry at his throat.
He saw that even if the men were tottering with fear they would laugh at his warning.
They would jeer him, and, if practicable, pelt him with missiles.
Admitting that he might be wrong, a frenzied declamation of the kind would turn him into a worm. He assumed, then, the demeanor of one who knows that he is doomed alone to unwritten responsibilities.
No skulking 'll do here.
He mended his pace with suitable haste.
And he hated the lieutenant, who had no appreciation of fine minds.
He was a mere brute. After a time the brigade was halted in the cathedral light of a forest. The busy skirmishers were still popping.
Through the aisles of the wood could be seen the floating smoke from their rifles.
Sometimes it went up in little balls, white and compact. During this halt many men in the regiment began erecting tiny hills in front of them.
They used stones, sticks, earth, and anything they thought might turn a bullet.
Some built comparatively large ones, while others seemed content with little ones. This procedure caused a discussion among the men.
Some wished to fight like duelists, believing it to be correct to stand erect and be, from their feet to their foreheads, a mark.
They said they scorned the devices of the cautious.
But the others scoffed in reply, and pointed to the veterans on the flanks who were digging at the ground like terriers.
In a short time there was quite a barricade along the regimental fronts.
Directly, however, they were ordered to withdraw from that place. This astounded the youth.
He forgot his stewing over the advance movement.
Well, then, what did they march us out here for?" he demanded of the tall soldier.
They ate their noon meal behind a third one.
They were moved from this one also.
They were marched from place to place with apparent aimlessness. The youth had been taught that a man became another thing in battle.
He saw his salvation in such a change.
Hence this waiting was an ordeal to him.
He was in a fever of impatience.
He considered that there was denoted a lack of purpose on the part of the generals.
He began to complain to the tall soldier.
I can't stand this much longer," he cried.
I don't see what good it does to make us wear out our legs for nothin'.
The strain of present circumstances he felt to be intolerable. The philosophical tall soldier measured a sandwich of cracker and pork and swallowed it in a nonchalant manner.
I tell you if anybody with any sense was a-runnin' this army it-" "Oh, shut up!" roared the tall private.
You ain't had that there coat and them pants on for six months, and yet you talk as if-" "Well, I wanta do some fighting anyway," interrupted the other.
I didn't come here to walk.
During his meals he always wore an air of blissful contemplation of the food he had swallowed.
His spirit seemed then to be communing with the viands. He accepted new environment and circumstance with great coolness, eating from his haversack at every opportunity.
On the march he went along with the stride of a hunter, objecting to neither gait nor distance.
He was occupied with his problem, and in his desperation he concluded that the stupidity did not greatly matter. Once he thought he had concluded that it would be better to get killed directly and end his troubles.
He would die; he would go to some place where he would be understood.
It was useless to expect appreciation of his profound and fine sense from such men as the lieutenant.
He must look to the grave for comprehension. The skirmish fire increased to a long clattering sound.
With it was mingled far-away cheering.
A battery spoke. Directly the youth could see the skirmishers running.
They were pursued by the sound of musketry fire.
After a time the hot, dangerous flashes of the rifles were visible.
Smoke clouds went slowly and insolently across the fields like observant phantoms.
The din became crescendo, like the roar of an oncoming train. A brigade ahead of them and on the right went into action with a rending roar.
It was as if it had exploded.
And thereafter it lay stretched in the distance behind a long gray wall, that one was obliged to look twice at to make sure that it was smoke. The youth, forgetting his neat plan of getting killed, gazed spell bound.
His eyes grew wide and busy with the action of the scene.
He ended in a quavering sob of pity for himself.
The men crouched among the trees and pointed their restless guns out at the fields.
They tried to look beyond the smoke. Out of this haze they could see running men.
Some shouted information and gestured as they hurried. The men of the new regiment watched and listened eagerly, while their tongues ran on in gossip of the battle.
They mouthed rumors that had flown like birds out of the unknown. "They say Perry has been driven in with big loss." "Yes, Carrott went t' th' hospital.
He said he was sick.
That smart lieutenant is commanding 'G' Company.
Th' boys say they won't be under Carrott no more if they all have t' desert.
They allus knew he was a-" "Hannises' batt'ry is took." "It ain't either.
They say th' enemy driv' our line inteh a devil of a swamp an' took Hannises' batt'ry." "No sech thing.
Hannises' batt'ry was 'long here 'bout a minute ago." "That young Hasbrouck, he makes a good off'cer.
He ain't afraid 'a nothin'." "I met one of th' 148th Maine boys an' he ses his brigade fit th' hull rebel army fer four hours over on th' turnpike road an' killed about five thousand of 'em.
He ses one more sech fight as that an' th' war 'll be over." "Bill wasn't scared either.
Bill ain't a-gittin' scared easy.
He was jest mad, that's what he was.
So he went t' th' hospital disregardless of th' fight.
Th' dern doctor wanted t' amputate 'm, an' Bill, he raised a heluva row, I hear.
He's a funny feller." The din in front swelled to a tremendous chorus.
The youth and his fellows were frozen to silence.
They could see a flag that tossed in the smoke angrily.
Near it were the blurred and agitated forms of troops.
There came a turbulent stream of men across the fields.
A battery changing position at a frantic gallop scattered the stragglers right and left. A shell screaming like a storm banshee went over the huddled heads of the reserves.
It landed in the grove, and exploding redly flung the brown earth.
There was a little shower of pine needles. Bullets began to whistle among the branches and nip at the trees.
Twigs and leaves came sailing down.
It was as if a thousand axes, wee and invisible, were being wielded.
Many of the men were constantly dodging and ducking their heads. The lieutenant of the youth's company was shot in the hand.
He began to swear so wondrously that a nervous laugh went along the regimental line.
The officer's profanity sounded conventional.
It relieved the tightened senses of the new men.
And they disputed as to how the binding should be done. The battle flag in the distance jerked about madly.
It seemed to be struggling to free itself from an agony.
The billowing smoke was filled with horizontal flashes. Men rushing swiftly emerged from it.
They grew in numbers until it was seen that the whole command was fleeing.
The flag suddenly sank down as if dying.
Its motion as it fell was a gesture of despair. Wild yells came from behind the walls of smoke.
A sketch in gray and red dissolved into a moblike body of men who galloped like wild horses. The veteran regiments on the right and left of the 304th immediately began to jeer.
With the passionate song of the bullets and the banshee shrieks of shells were mingled loud catcalls and bits of facetious advice concerning places of safety. But the new regiment was breathless with horror.
Saunders's got crushed!" whispered the man at the youth's elbow.
They shrank back and crouched as if compelled to await a flood. The youth shot a swift glance along the blue ranks of the regiment.
The profiles were motionless, carven; and afterward he remembered that the color sergeant was standing with his legs apart, as if he expected to be pushed to the ground. The following throng went whirling around the flank.
Here and there were officers carried along on the stream like exasperated chips.
They were striking about them with their swords and with their left fists, punching every head they could reach.
They cursed like highwaymen. A mounted officer displayed the furious anger of a spoiled child.
He raged with his head, his arms, and his legs. Another, the commander of the brigade, was galloping about bawling.
His hat was gone and his clothes were awry.
He resembled a man who has come from bed to go to a fire.
The hoofs of his horse often threatened the heads of the running men, but they scampered with singular fortune.
In this rush they were apparently all deaf and blind.
They of the reserves had to hold on.
They grew pale and firm, and red and quaking. The youth achieved one little thought in the midst of this chaos.
The composite monster which had caused the other troops to flee had not then appeared.
He resolved to get a view of it, and then, he thought he might very likely run better than the best of them. Chapter V. There were moments of waiting.
He saw the yellow road, the lines of expectant people, and the sober houses.
He particularly remembered an old fellow who used to sit upon a cracker box in front of the store and feign to despise such exhibitions.
A thousand details of color and form surged in his mind. The old fellow upon the cracker box appeared in middle prominence. Some one cried, "Here they come!" There was rustling and muttering among the men.
They displayed a feverish desire to have every possible cartridge ready to their hands. The boxes were pulled around into various positions, and adjusted with great care.
It was as if seven hundred new bonnets were being tried on. The tall soldier, having prepared his rifle, produced a red handkerchief of some kind.
He was engaged in knotting it about his throat with exquisite attention to its position, when the cry was repeated up and down the line in a muffled roar of sound. "Here they come!
Gun locks clicked. Across the smoke-infested fields came a brown swarm of running men who were giving shrill yells.
They came on, stooping and swinging their rifles at all angles.
A flag, tilted forward, sped near the front. As he caught sight of them the youth was momentarily startled by a thought that perhaps his gun was not loaded.
He stood trying to rally his faltering intellect so that he might recollect the moment when he had loaded, but he could not. A hatless general pulled his dripping horse to a stand near the colonel of the 304th.
He shook his fist in the other's face.
You've got to hold 'em back!" he shouted, savagely; "you've got to hold 'em back!" In his agitation the colonel began to stammer.
A-all r-right, General, all right, by Gawd!
We-we'll do our-we-we'll d-d-do-do our best, General.
The general made a passionate gesture and galloped away.
The colonel, perchance to relieve his feelings, began to scold like a wet parrot.
He coaxed in schoolmistress fashion, as to a congregation of boys with primers.
His talk was an endless repetition.
Reserve your fire, boys-don't shoot till I tell you-save your fire-wait till they get close up-don't be damned fools-" Perspiration streamed down the youth's face, which was soiled like that of a weeping urchin.
He frequently, with a nervous movement, wiped his eyes with his coat sleeve.
Directly he was working at his weapon like an automatic affair. He suddenly lost concern for himself, and forgot to look at a menacing fate.
He became not a man but a member.
He felt that something of which he was a part-a regiment, an army, a cause, or a country-was in crisis. He was welded into a common personality which was dominated by a single desire.
For some moments he could not flee no more than a little finger can commit a revolution from a hand. If he had thought the regiment was about to be annihilated perhaps he could have amputated himself from it.
But its noise gave him assurance. The regiment was like a firework that, once ignited, proceeds superior to circumstances until its blazing vitality fades.
It wheezed and banged with a mighty power.
He pictured the ground before it as strewn with the discomfited. There was a consciousness always of the presence of his comrades about him.
He felt the subtle battle brotherhood more potent even than the cause for which they were fighting.
It was a mysterious fraternity born of the smoke and danger of death. He was at a task.
He was like a carpenter who has made many boxes, making still another box, only there was furious haste in his movements.
He, in his thoughts, was careering off in other places, even as the carpenter who as he works whistles and thinks of his friend or his enemy, his home or a saloon.
A burning roar filled his ears. Following this came a red rage.
He developed the acute exasperation of a pestered animal, a well-meaning cow worried by dogs.
He had a mad feeling against his rifle, which could only be used against one life at a time.
He wished to rush forward and strangle with his fingers.
He craved a power that would enable him to make a world-sweeping gesture and brush all back.
He fought frantically for respite for his senses, for air, as a babe being smothered attacks the deadly blankets. There was a blare of heated rage mingled with a certain expression of intentness on all faces.
The man at the youth's elbow was babbling.
In it there was something soft and tender like the monologue of a babe.
The tall soldier was swearing in a loud voice.
From his lips came a black procession of curious oaths.
Of a sudden another broke out in a querulous way like a man who has mislaid his hat.
Well, why don't they support us?
Why don't they send supports?
Do they think-" The youth in his battle sleep heard this as one who dozes hears. There was a singular absence of heroic poses.
The men bending and surging in their haste and rage were in every impossible attitude.
The steel ramrods clanked and clanged with incessant din as the men pounded them furiously into the hot rifle barrels.
They were bobbing to and fro roaring directions and encouragements.
The dimensions of their howls were extraordinary. They expended their lungs with prodigal wills.
Behind the lines these two were acting a little isolated scene.
The man was blubbering and staring with sheeplike eyes at the lieutenant, who had seized him by the collar and was pommeling him.
He drove him back into the ranks with many blows.
The soldier went mechanically, dully, with his animal-like eyes upon the officer.
Perhaps there was to him a divinity expressed in the voice of the other-stern, hard, with no reflection of fear in it.
He tried to reload his gun, but his shaking hands prevented.
The lieutenant was obliged to assist him. The men dropped here and there like bundles.
The captain of the youth's company had been killed in an early part of the action.
His body lay stretched out in the position of a tired man resting, but upon his face there was an astonished and sorrowful look, as if he thought some friend had done him an ill turn.
The babbling man was grazed by a shot that made the blood stream widely down his face.
He clapped both hands to his head.
Oh!" he said, and ran.
Another grunted suddenly as if he had been struck by a club in the stomach.
He sat down and gazed ruefully.
In his eyes there was mute, indefinite reproach.
Farther up the line a man, standing behind a tree, had had his knee joint splintered by a ball.
Immediately he had dropped his rifle and gripped the tree with both arms.
And there he remained, clinging desperately and crying for assistance that he might withdraw his hold upon the tree. At last an exultant yell went along the quivering line.
The firing dwindled from an uproar to a last vindictive popping.
As the smoke slowly eddied away, the youth saw that the charge had been repulsed. The enemy were scattered into reluctant groups.
He saw a man climb to the top of the fence, straddle the rail, and fire a parting shot.
Many were silent. Apparently they were trying to contemplate themselves. After the fever had left his veins, the youth thought that at last he was going to suffocate.
He became aware of the foul atmosphere in which he had been struggling.
He was grimy and dripping like a laborer in a foundry.
He grasped his canteen and took a long swallow of the warmed water. A sentence with variations went up and down the line.
Well, we've helt 'em back.
We've helt 'em back; derned if we haven't.
The men said it blissfully, leering at each other with dirty smiles. The youth turned to look behind him and off to the right and off to the left.
He experienced the joy of a man who at last finds leisure in which to look about him. Under foot there were a few ghastly forms motionless.
They lay twisted in fantastic contortions.
Arms were bent and heads were turned in incredible ways.
It seemed that the dead men must have fallen from some great height to get into such positions.
They looked to be dumped out upon the ground from the sky. From a position in the rear of the grove a battery was throwing shells over it.
The flash of the guns startled the youth at first.
He thought they were aimed directly at him.
Through the trees he watched the black figures of the gunners as they worked swiftly and intently.
Their labor seemed a complicated thing.
He wondered how they could remember its formula in the midst of confusion. The guns squatted in a row like savage chiefs.
They argued with abrupt violence.
It was a grim pow-wow.
Far in front he thought he could see lighter masses protruding in points from the forest.
They were suggestive of unnumbered thousands. Once he saw a tiny battery go dashing along the line of the horizon. The tiny riders were beating the tiny horses. From a sloping hill came the sound of cheerings and clashes.
Smoke welled slowly through the leaves. Batteries were speaking with thunderous oratorical effort.
Here and there were flags, the red in the stripes dominating.
They splashed bits of warm color upon the dark lines of troops. The youth felt the old thrill at the sight of the emblems.
Heretofore he had supposed that all the battle was directly under his nose. As he gazed around him the youth felt a flash of astonishment at the blue, pure sky and the sun gleamings on the trees and fields.
It was surprising that Nature had gone tranquilly on with her golden process in the midst of so much devilment. Chapter VI. The youth awakened slowly.
He came gradually back to a position from which he could regard himself.
For moments he had been scrutinizing his person in a dazed way as if he had never before seen himself.
Then he picked up his cap from the ground.
He wriggled in his jacket to make a more comfortable fit, and kneeling relaced his shoe.
He thoughtfully mopped his reeking features. So it was all over at last!
The supreme trial had been passed.
The red, formidable difficulties of war had been vanquished. He went into an ecstasy of self-satisfaction.
He had the most delightful sensations of his life.
Standing as if apart from himself, he viewed that last scene.
He perceived that the man who had fought thus was magnificent. He felt that he was a fine fellow.
He saw himself even with those ideals which he had considered as far beyond him.
He smiled in deep gratification. Upon his fellows he beamed tenderness and good will.
Gee! ain't it hot, hey?" he said affably to a man who was polishing his streaming face with his coat sleeves. "You bet!" said the other, grinning sociably.
I never seen sech dumb hotness.
He sprawled out luxuriously on the ground.
An' I hope we don't have no more fightin' till a week from Monday." There were some handshakings and deep speeches with men whose features were familiar, but with whom the youth now felt the bonds of tied hearts.
He helped a cursing comrade to bind up a wound of the shin. But, of a sudden, cries of amazement broke out along the ranks of the new regiment.
The man who had sprawled upon the ground started up and said, "Gosh!" The youth turned quick eyes upon the field.
He discerned forms begin to swell in masses out of a distant wood.
He again saw the tilted flag speeding forward. The shells, which had ceased to trouble the regiment for a time, came swirling again, and exploded in the grass or among the leaves of the trees.
They looked to be strange war flowers bursting into fierce bloom. The men groaned.
The luster faded from their eyes.
Their smudged countenances now expressed a profound dejection.
They moved their stiffened bodies slowly, and watched in sullen mood the frantic approach of the enemy.
The slaves toiling in the temple of this god began to feel rebellion at his harsh tasks. They fretted and complained each to each.
Oh, say, this is too much of a good thing!
Why can't somebody send us supports?" "We ain't never goin' to stand this second banging.
I didn't come here to fight the hull damn' rebel army." There was one who raised a doleful cry.
I wish Bill Smithers had trod on my hand, insteader me treddin' on his'n.
The sore joints of the regiment creaked as it painfully floundered into position to repulse. The youth stared.
Surely, he thought, this impossible thing was not about to happen.
He waited as if he expected the enemy to suddenly stop, apologize, and retire bowing.
It was all a mistake. But the firing began somewhere on the regimental line and ripped along in both directions.
The level sheets of flame developed great clouds of smoke that tumbled and tossed in the mild wind near the ground for a moment, and then rolled through the ranks as through a gate.
The clouds were tinged an earthlike yellow in the sunrays and in the shadow were a sorry blue.
The flag was sometimes eaten and lost in this mass of vapor, but more often it projected, sun-touched, resplendent. Into the youth's eyes there came a look that one can see in the orbs of a jaded horse.
His neck was quivering with nervous weakness and the muscles of his arms felt numb and bloodless.
His hands, too, seemed large and awkward as if he was wearing invisible mittens.
And there was a great uncertainty about his knee joints. The words that comrades had uttered previous to the firing began to recur to him.
What do they take us for-why don't they send supports?
I didn't come here to fight the hull damned rebel army." He began to exaggerate the endurance, the skill, and the valor of those who were coming.
Himself reeling from exhaustion, he was astonished beyond measure at such persistency.
They must be machines of steel.
It was very gloomy struggling against such affairs, wound up perhaps to fight until sundown. He slowly lifted his rifle and catching a glimpse of the thickspread field he blazed at a cantering cluster.
He stopped then and began to peer as best as he could through the smoke.
He caught changing views of the ground covered with men who were all running like pursued imps, and yelling. To the youth it was an onslaught of redoubtable dragons.
He became like the man who lost his legs at the approach of the red and green monster. He waited in a sort of a horrified, listening attitude.
He seemed to shut his eyes and wait to be gobbled. A man near him who up to this time had been working feverishly at his rifle suddenly stopped and ran with howls.
A lad whose face had borne an expression of exalted courage, the majesty of he who dares give his life, was, at an instant, smitten abject.
He blanched like one who has come to the edge of a cliff at midnight and is suddenly made aware. There was a revelation.
He, too, threw down his gun and fled.
There was no shame in his face.
He ran like a rabbit. Others began to scamper away through the smoke.
The youth turned his head, shaken from his trance by this movement as if the regiment was leaving him behind.
He saw the few fleeting forms. He yelled then with fright and swung about.
For a moment, in the great clamor, he was like a proverbial chicken.
He lost the direction of safety.
Destruction threatened him from all points. Directly he began to speed toward the rear in great leaps.
His rifle and cap were gone.
His unbuttoned coat bulged in the wind.
The flap of his cartridge box bobbed wildly, and his canteen, by its slender cord, swung out behind.
On his face was all the horror of those things which he imagined. The lieutenant sprang forward bawling.
The youth saw his features wrathfully red, and saw him make a dab with his sword.
His one thought of the incident was that the lieutenant was a peculiar creature to feel interested in such matters upon this occasion. He ran like a blind man.
Two or three times he fell down.
Once he knocked his shoulder so heavily against a tree that he went headlong. Since he had turned his back upon the fight his fears had been wondrously magnified.
Death about to thrust him between the shoulder blades was far more dreadful than death about to smite him between the eyes.
When he thought of it later, he conceived the impression that it is better to view the appalling than to be merely within hearing.
The noises of the battle were like stones; he believed himself liable to be crushed. As he ran on he mingled with others.
He dimly saw men on his right and on his left, and he heard footsteps behind him.
He thought that all the regiment was fleeing, pursued by those ominous crashes. In his flight the sound of these following footsteps gave him his one meager relief.
He felt vaguely that death must make a first choice of the men who were nearest; the initial morsels for the dragons would be then those who were following him.
So he displayed the zeal of an insane sprinter in his purpose to keep them in the rear.
There was a race. As he, leading, went across a little field, he found himself in a region of shells.
They hurtled over his head with long wild screams.
As he listened he imagined them to have rows of cruel teeth that grinned at him.
Once one lit before him and the livid lightning of the explosion effectually barred the way in his chosen direction.
He groveled on the ground and then springing up went careering off through some bushes. He experienced a thrill of amazement when he came within view of a battery in action.
The men there seemed to be in conventional moods, altogether unaware of the impending annihilation.
The battery was disputing with a distant antagonist and the gunners were wrapped in admiration of their shooting.
They were continually bending in coaxing postures over the guns.
They seemed to be patting them on the back and encouraging them with words.
The guns, stolid and undaunted, spoke with dogged valor. The precise gunners were coolly enthusiastic.
They lifted their eyes every chance to the smoke-wreathed hillock from whence the hostile battery addressed them.
The youth pitied them as he ran.
He scrambled upon a wee hill and watched it sweeping finely, keeping formation in difficult places.
The blue of the line was crusted with steel color, and the brilliant flags projected.
Officers were shouting. This sight also filled him with wonder.
The brigade was hurrying briskly to be gulped into the infernal mouths of the war god.
What manner of men were they, anyhow?
Ah, it was some wondrous breed!
Or else they didn't comprehend-the fools. A furious order caused commotion in the artillery.
An officer on a bounding horse made maniacal motions with his arms.
The teams went swinging up from the rear, the guns were whirled about, and the battery scampered away.
There was a great gleaming of yellow and patent leather about the saddle and bridle.
The quiet man astride looked mouse-colored upon such a splendid charger. A jingling staff was galloping hither and thither.
Sometimes the general was surrounded by horsemen and at other times he was quite alone.
He looked to be much harassed.
He had the appearance of a business man whose market is swinging up and down. The youth went slinking around this spot.
He went as near as he dared trying to overhear words.
Perhaps the general, unable to comprehend chaos, might call upon him for information.
And he could tell him.
He knew all concerning it.
It was criminal to stay calmly in one spot and make no effort to stay destruction.
He made his horse bound into a gallop almost from a walk in his haste to go upon his mission.
There was a cloud of dust. A moment later the youth saw the general bounce excitedly in his saddle. "Yes, by heavens, they have!
His face was aflame with excitement.
Yes, by heavens, they've held 'im!
They've held 'im!" He began to blithely roar at his staff: "We'll wallop 'im now.
He kept repeating, "They've held 'em, by heavens!" His excitement made his horse plunge, and he merrily kicked and swore at it.
He held a little carnival of joy on horseback. Chapter VII. The youth cringed as if discovered in a crime.
By heavens, they had won after all!
The imbecile line had remained and become victors.
He could hear cheering. He lifted himself upon his toes and looked in the direction of the fight.
A yellow fog lay wallowing on the treetops.
From beneath it came the clatter of musketry.
Hoarse cries told of an advance. He turned away amazed and angry.
He felt that he had been wronged. He had fled, he told himself, because annihilation approached.
Later the officers could fit the little pieces together again, and make a battle front.
If none of the little pieces were wise enough to save themselves from the flurry of death at such a time, why, then, where would be the army?
It was all plain that he had proceeded according to very correct and commendable rules.
His actions had been sagacious things.
They had been full of strategy.
They were the work of a master's legs. Thoughts of his comrades came to him.
The brittle blue line had withstood the blows and won.
He grew bitter over it.
He, the enlightened man who looks afar in the dark, had fled because of his superior perceptions and knowledge.
He felt a great anger against his comrades.
He knew it could be proved that they had been fools. He wondered what they would remark when later he appeared in camp.
His mind heard howls of derision.
Their density would not enable them to understand his sharper point of view. He began to pity himself acutely.
He was trodden beneath the feet of an iron injustice.
He had proceeded with wisdom and from the most righteous motives under heaven's blue only to be frustrated by hateful circumstances. A dull, animal-like rebellion against his fellows, war in the abstract, and fate grew within him.
He shambled along with bowed head, his brain in a tumult of agony and despair.
He wished to get out of hearing of the crackling shots which were to him like voices. The ground was cluttered with vines and bushes, and the trees grew close and spread out like bouquets.
He was obliged to force his way with much noise.
The creepers, catching against his legs, cried out harshly as their sprays were torn from the barks of trees.
The swishing saplings tried to make known his presence to the world.
He could not conciliate the forest.
As he made his way, it was always calling out protestations.
When he separated embraces of trees and vines the disturbed foliages waved their arms and turned their face leaves toward him.
He dreaded lest these noisy motions and cries should bring men to look at him.
So he went far, seeking dark and intricate places. After a time the sound of musketry grew faint and the cannon boomed in the distance.
The sun, suddenly apparent, blazed among the trees.
The insects were making rhythmical noises.
They seemed to be grinding their teeth in unison.
A woodpecker stuck his impudent head around the side of a tree.
A bird flew on lighthearted wing. Off was the rumble of death.
It seemed now that Nature had no ears. This landscape gave him assurance.
A fair field holding life.
It was the religion of peace.
It would die if its timid eyes were compelled to see blood.
He conceived Nature to be a woman with a deep aversion to tragedy. He threw a pine cone at a jovial squirrel, and he ran with chattering fear.
High in a treetop he stopped, and, poking his head cautiously from behind a branch, looked down with an air of trepidation. The youth felt triumphant at this exhibition.
There was the law, he said.
Nature had given him a sign.
The squirrel, immediately upon recognizing danger, had taken to his legs without ado.
He did not stand stolidly baring his furry belly to the missile, and die with an upward glance at the sympathetic heavens.
On the contrary, he had fled as fast as his legs could carry him; and he was but an ordinary squirrel, too-doubtless no philosopher of his race.
The youth wended, feeling that Nature was of his mind.
She re-enforced his argument with proofs that lived where the sun shone. Once he found himself almost into a swamp.
He was obliged to walk upon bog tufts and watch his feet to keep from the oily mire.
Pausing at one time to look about him he saw, out at some black water, a small animal pounce in and emerge directly with a gleaming fish. The youth went again into the deep thickets.
The brushed branches made a noise that drowned the sounds of cannon.
He walked on, going from obscurity into promises of a greater obscurity. At length he reached a place where the high, arching boughs made a chapel.
He softly pushed the green doors aside and entered.
Pine needles were a gentle brown carpet.
There was a religious half light. Near the threshold he stopped, horror-stricken at the sight of a thing. He was being looked at by a dead man who was seated with his back against a columnlike tree.
The corpse was dressed in a uniform that had once been blue, but was now faded to a melancholy shade of green.
The eyes, staring at the youth, had changed to the dull hue to be seen on the side of a dead fish.
Its red had changed to an appalling yellow.
Over the gray skin of the face ran little ants.
One was trundling some sort of bundle along the upper lip. The youth gave a shriek as he confronted the thing.
He was for moments turned to stone before it.
He remained staring into the liquid-looking eyes.
The dead man and the living man exchanged a long look.
Then the youth cautiously put one hand behind him and brought it against a tree. Leaning upon this he retreated, step by step, with his face still toward the thing.
He feared that if he turned his back the body might spring up and stealthily pursue him. The branches, pushing against him, threatened to throw him over upon it.
His unguided feet, too, caught aggravatingly in brambles; and with it all he received a subtle suggestion to touch the corpse.
As he thought of his hand upon it he shuddered profoundly. At last he burst the bonds which had fastened him to the spot and fled, unheeding the underbrush.
He was pursued by the sight of black ants swarming greedily upon the gray face and venturing horribly near to the eyes. After a time he paused, and, breathless and panting, listened.
He imagined some strange voice would come from the dead throat and squawk after him in horrible menaces. The trees about the portal of the chapel moved soughingly in a soft wind.
A sad silence was upon the little guarding edifice. Chapter VIII. The trees began softly to sing a hymn of twilight.
The sun sank until slanted bronze rays struck the forest.
There was a lull in the noises of insects as if they had bowed their beaks and were making a devotional pause.
There was silence save for the chanted chorus of the trees. Then, upon this stillness, there suddenly broke a tremendous clangor of sounds.
A crimson roar came from the distance. The youth stopped.
He was transfixed by this terrific medley of all noises.
It was as if worlds were being rended.
There was the ripping sound of musketry and the breaking crash of the artillery. His mind flew in all directions.
He conceived the two armies to be at each other panther fashion.
He listened for a time.
Then he began to run in the direction of the battle.
He saw that it was an ironical thing for him to be running thus toward that which he had been at such pains to avoid.
The trees hushed and stood motionless.
Everything seemed to be listening to the crackle and clatter and earthshaking thunder.
The chorus peaked over the still earth. It suddenly occurred to the youth that the fight in which he had been was, after all, but perfunctory popping.
In the hearing of this present din he was doubtful if he had seen real battle scenes.
This uproar explained a celestial battle; it was tumbling hordes a-struggle in the air. Reflecting, he saw a sort of a humor in the point of view of himself and his fellows during the late encounter.
They had taken themselves and the enemy very seriously and had imagined that they were deciding the war.
But he saw that it was good, else, he said, in battle every one would surely run save forlorn hopes and their ilk. He went rapidly on.
He wished to come to the edge of the forest that he might peer out. As he hastened, there passed through his mind pictures of stupendous conflicts.
His accumulated thought upon such subjects was used to form scenes.
The noise was as the voice of an eloquent being, describing. Sometimes the brambles formed chains and tried to hold him back.
Trees, confronting him, stretched out their arms and forbade him to pass. After its previous hostility this new resistance of the forest filled him with a fine bitterness.
It seemed that Nature could not be quite ready to kill him. But he obstinately took roundabout ways, and presently he was where he could see long gray walls of vapor where lay battle lines.
The voices of cannon shook him.
The musketry sounded in long irregular surges that played havoc with his ears.
He stood regardant for a moment.
His eyes had an awestruck expression.
He gawked in the direction of the fight. Presently he proceeded again on his forward way.
The battle was like the grinding of an immense and terrible machine to him.
Its complexities and powers, its grim processes, fascinated him.
He must go close and see it produce corpses. He came to a fence and clambered over it.
On the far side, the ground was littered with clothes and guns.
A newspaper, folded up, lay in the dirt.
A dead soldier was stretched with his face hidden in his arm. Farther off there was a group of four or five corpses keeping mournful company.
A hot sun had blazed upon this spot. In this place the youth felt that he was an invader.
In the lane was a blood-stained crowd streaming to the rear.
The wounded men were cursing, groaning, and wailing.
In the air, always, was a mighty swell of sound that it seemed could sway the earth.
With the courageous words of the artillery and the spiteful sentences of the musketry mingled red cheers.
And from this region of noises came the steady current of the maimed. One of the wounded men had a shoeful of blood.
He hopped like a schoolboy in a game.
He was laughing hysterically. One was swearing that he had been shot in the arm through the commanding general's mismanagement of the army.
One was marching with an air imitative of some sublime drum major.
Upon his features was an unholy mixture of merriment and agony.
His lips were curled in hard lines and his teeth were clinched.
His hands were bloody from where he had pressed them upon his wound.
He seemed to be awaiting the moment when he should pitch headlong.
Don't joggle so, Johnson, yeh fool," he cried.
Think m' leg is made of iron? If yeh can't carry me decent, put me down an' let some one else do it." He bellowed at the tottering crowd who blocked the quick march of his bearers.
Say, make way there, can't yeh?
Make way, dickens take it all." They sulkily parted and went to the roadsides.
As he was carried past they made pert remarks to him.
The torn bodies expressed the awful machinery in which the men had been entangled. Orderlies and couriers occasionally broke through the throng in the roadway, scattering wounded men right and left, galloping on followed by howls.
He was listening with eagerness and much humility to the lurid descriptions of a bearded sergeant.
His lean features wore an expression of awe and admiration.
He was like a listener in a country store to wondrous tales told among the sugar barrels.
He eyed the story-teller with unspeakable wonder.
His mouth was agape in yokel fashion. The sergeant, taking note of this, gave pause to his elaborate history while he administered a sardonic comment.
Be keerful, honey, you'll be a-ketchin' flies," he said. The tattered man shrank back abashed. After a time he began to sidle near to the youth, and in a diffident way try to make him a friend.
His voice was gentle as a girl's voice and his eyes were pleading.
Was pretty good fight, wa'n't it?" he timidly said.
The youth, deep in thought, glanced up at the bloody and grim figure with its lamblike eyes.
What?" "Was pretty good fight, wa'n't it?" "Yes," said the youth shortly.
He quickened his pace. But the other hobbled industriously after him.
Dern me if I ever see fellers fight so.
Laws, how they did fight!
I knowed th' boys'd like when they onct got square at it.
Th' boys ain't had no fair chanct up t' now, but this time they showed what they was.
I knowed it'd turn out this way. Yeh can't lick them boys.
They're fighters, they be." He breathed a deep breath of humble admiration.
He had looked at the youth for encouragement several times.
Mebbe they will,' I ses, 'but I don't b'lieve none of it,' I ses; 'an' b'jiminey,' I ses back t' 'um, 'mebbe your fellers 'll all run like hell when they onct hearn a gun,' I ses.
Well, they didn't run t' day, did they, hey?
They fit, an' fit, an' fit." His homely face was suffused with a light of love for the army which was to him all things beautiful and powerful. After a time he turned to the youth.
His brow was heavily flushed, and his fingers were picking nervously at one of his buttons.
Then he started to walk on with the others. But he was amid wounds.
The mob of men was bleeding.
He conceived persons with torn bodies to be peculiarly happy.
He wished that he, too, had a wound, a red badge of courage. The spectral soldier was at his side like a stalking reproach.
The man's eyes were still fixed in a stare into the unknown.
His gray, appalling face had attracted attention in the crowd, and men, slowing to his dreary pace, were walking with him.
They were discussing his plight, questioning him and giving him advice.
In a dogged way he repelled them, signing to them to go on and leave him alone.
The shadows of his face were deepening and his tight lips seemed holding in check the moan of great despair.
There could be seen a certain stiffness in the movements of his body, as if he were taking infinite care not to arouse the passion of his wounds.
He yelled in horror. Tottering forward he laid a quivering hand upon the man's arm.
As the latter slowly turned his waxlike features toward him the youth screamed: "Gawd!
Jim Conklin!" The tall soldier made a little commonplace smile.
Hello, Henry," he said. The youth swayed on his legs and glared strangely.
Oh, Jim-oh, Jim-oh, Jim-" The tall soldier held out his gory hand.
There was a curious red and black combination of new blood and old blood upon it.
Where yeh been, Henry?" he asked.
He continued in a monotonous voice, "I thought mebbe yeh got keeled over.
There been thunder t' pay t'-day.
I was worryin' about it a good deal." The youth still lamented.
Oh, Jim-oh, Jim-oh, Jim-" "Yeh know," said the tall soldier, "I was out there.
He made a careful gesture.
An', Lord, what a circus!
An', b'jiminey, I got shot-I got shot.
Yes, b'jiminey, I got shot.
He reiterated this fact in a bewildered way, as if he did not know how it came about. The youth put forth anxious arms to assist him, but the tall soldier went firmly as if propelled.
Since the youth's arrival as a guardian for his friend, the other wounded men had ceased to display much interest.
They occupied themselves again in dragging their own tragedies toward the rear. Suddenly, as the two friends marched on, the tall soldier seemed to be overcome by a tremor.
His face turned to a semblance of gray paste.
He clutched the youth's arm and looked all about him, as if dreading to be overheard.
That's what I'm 'fraid of-" The youth cried out to him hysterically: "I'll take care of yeh, Jim! I'll take care of yeh!
He now hung babelike to the youth's arm.
His eyes rolled in the wildness of his terror.
I was allus a good friend t' yeh, wa'n't I, Henry?
I've allus been a pretty good feller, ain't I?
An' it ain't much t' ask, is it? Jest t' pull me along outer th' road?
I'd do it fer you, wouldn't I, Henry?" He paused in piteous anxiety to await his friend's reply. The youth had reached an anguish where the sobs scorched him.
He strove to express his loyalty, but he could only make fantastic gestures. However, the tall soldier seemed suddenly to forget all those fears.
He became again the grim, stalking specter of a soldier.
The youth wished his friend to lean upon him, but the other always shook his head and strangely protested.
No-no-no-leave me be-leave me be-" His look was fixed again upon the unknown.
He moved with mysterious purpose, and all of the youth's offers he brushed aside.
No-no-leave me be-leave me be-" The youth had to follow. Presently the latter heard a voice talking softly near his shoulder. Turning he saw that it belonged to the tattered soldier.
Ye'd better take 'im outa th' road, pardner.
There's a batt'ry comin' helitywhoop down th' road an' he'll git runned over.
He's a goner anyhow in about five minutes-yeh kin see that.
Ye'd better take 'im outa th' road. Where th' blazes does hi git his stren'th from?" "Lord knows!" cried the youth.
He was shaking his hands helplessly. He ran forward presently and grasped the tall soldier by the arm.
Jim! Jim!" he coaxed, "come with me." The tall soldier weakly tried to wrench himself free.
He stared at the youth for a moment.
At last he spoke as if dimly comprehending.
Oh!" He started blindly through the grass. The youth turned once to look at the lashing riders and jouncing guns of the battery.
He was startled from this view by a shrill outcry from the tattered man. "Gawd!
He's runnin'!" Turning his head swiftly, the youth saw his friend running in a staggering and stumbling way toward a little clump of bushes.
His heart seemed to wrench itself almost free from his body at this sight.
He made a noise of pain.
He and the tattered man began a pursuit.
There was a singular race. When he overtook the tall soldier he began to plead with all the words he could find.
Jim-Jim-what are you doing-what makes you do this way-you'll hurt yerself." The same purpose was in the tall soldier's face.
He protested in a dulled way, keeping his eyes fastened on the mystic place of his intentions.
No-no-don't tech me-leave me be-leave me be-" The youth, aghast and filled with wonder at the tall soldier, began quaveringly to question him.
Tell me, won't you, Jim?" The tall soldier faced about as upon relentless pursuers.
In his eyes there was a great appeal.
Leave me be, can't yeh?
Leave me be for a minnit." The youth recoiled.
Why, Jim," he said, in a dazed way, "what's the matter with you?" The tall soldier turned and, lurching dangerously, went on.
The youth and the tattered soldier followed, sneaking as if whipped, feeling unable to face the stricken man if he should again confront them.
They began to have thoughts of a solemn ceremony.
There was something rite-like in these movements of the doomed soldier.
And there was a resemblance in him to a devotee of a mad religion, blood-sucking, muscle-wrenching, bone-crushing.
They were awed and afraid.
They hung back lest he have at command a dreadful weapon. At last, they saw him stop and stand motionless.
Hastening up, they perceived that his face wore an expression telling that he had at last found the place for which he had struggled.
His spare figure was erect; his bloody hands were quietly at his side.
He was waiting with patience for something that he had come to meet.
He was at the rendezvous.
They paused and stood, expectant. There was a silence. Finally, the chest of the doomed soldier began to heave with a strained motion.
He raised his voice in a last supreme call. "Jim-Jim-Jim-" The tall soldier opened his lips and spoke.
Leave me be-don't tech me-leave me be-" There was another silence while he waited. Suddenly his form stiffened and straightened.
Then it was shaken by a prolonged ague.
To the two watchers there was a curious and profound dignity in the firm lines of his awful face. He was invaded by a creeping strangeness that slowly enveloped him.
For a moment the tremor of his legs caused him to dance a sort of hideous hornpipe.
His arms beat wildly about his head in expression of implike enthusiasm. His tall figure stretched itself to its full height.
There was a slight rending sound.
Then it began to swing forward, slow and straight, in the manner of a falling tree.
A swift muscular contortion made the left shoulder strike the ground first. The body seemed to bounce a little way from the earth.
God!" said the tattered soldier. The youth had watched, spellbound, this ceremony at the place of meeting.
His face had been twisted into an expression of every agony he had imagined for his friend. He now sprang to his feet and, going closer, gazed upon the pastelike face.
He thoughtfully poked one of the docile hands with his foot.
I wonner where he got 'is stren'th from?
I never seen a man do like that before. It was a funny thing.
Well, he was a reg'lar jim-dandy." The youth desired to screech out his grief.
He was stabbed, but his tongue lay dead in the tomb of his mouth.
He threw himself again upon the ground and began to brood. The tattered man stood musing. "Look-a-here, pardner," he said, after a time.
He regarded the corpse as he spoke.
He's up an' gone, ain't 'e, an' we might as well begin t' look out fer ol' number one.
This here thing is all over.
He's up an' gone, ain't 'e?
An' he's all right here.
All I want is some pea soup an' a good bed.
Some pea soup," he repeated dreamfully. The youth arose from the ground.
I wonder where he came from.
I left him over there.
And now I find 'im here.
And he was coming from over there, too.
He indicated a new direction.
They both turned to gaze for a moment at the corpse. The youth murmured something. "Well, he was a jim-dandy, wa'n't 'e?" said the tattered man as if in response. They turned their backs upon it and started away.
For a time they stole softly, treading with their toes.
It remained laughing there in the grass. "I'm commencin' t' feel pretty bad," said the tattered man, suddenly breaking one of his little silences.
I'm commencin' t' feel pretty damn' bad." The youth groaned.
He wondered if he was to be the tortured witness of another grim encounter. But his companion waved his hand reassuringly.
Oh, I'm not goin' t' die yit!
There too much dependin' on me fer me t' die yit.
Besides, if I died, I wouldn't die th' way that feller did.
That was th' funniest thing.
I'd jest flop down, I would.
I never seen a feller die th' way that feller did. "Yeh know Tom Jamison, he lives next door t' me up home.
He's a nice feller, he is, an' we was allus good friends.
Smart as a steel trap.
Well, when we was a-fightin' this atternoon, all-of-a-sudden he begin t' rip up an' cuss an' beller at me.
Yer shot, yeh blamed infernal!'-he swear horrible-he ses t' me.
I put up m' hand t' m' head an' when I looked at m' fingers, I seen, sure 'nough, I was shot.
I give a holler an' begin t' run, but b'fore I could git away another one hit me in th' arm an' whirl' me clean 'round.
I got skeared when they was all a-shootin' b'hind me an' I run t' beat all, but I cotch it pretty bad.
I've an idee I'd a' been fightin' yit, if t'wasn't fer Tom Jamison." Then he made a calm announcement: "There's two of 'em-little ones-but they're beginnin' t' have fun with me now.
I don't b'lieve I kin walk much furder." They went slowly on in silence.
Yeh look pretty peek'ed yerself," said the tattered man at last.
I bet yeh've got a worser one than yeh think.
Ye'd better take keer of yer hurt.
It don't do t' let sech things go.
It might be inside mostly, an' them plays thunder.
But he continued his harangue without waiting for a reply. "I see a feller git hit plum in th' head when my reg'ment was a-standin' at ease onct.
An' everybody yelled to 'im: 'Hurt, John?
He looked kinder surprised, an' he went on tellin' 'em how he felt.
He sed he didn't feel nothin'.
But, by dad, th' first thing that feller knowed he was dead.
Yes, he was dead-stone dead.
So, yeh wanta watch out.
Yeh might have some queer kind 'a hurt yerself.
Where is your'n located?" The youth had been wriggling since the introduction of this topic.
He now gave a cry of exasperation and made a furious motion with his hand. "Oh, don't bother me!" he said.
He was enraged against the tattered man, and could have strangled him.
His companions seemed ever to play intolerable parts.
They were ever upraising the ghost of shame on the stick of their curiosity.
He turned toward the tattered man as one at bay.
Now, don't bother me," he repeated with desperate menace. "Well, Lord knows I don't wanta bother anybody," said the other.
Good-by," he said. The tattered man looked at him in gaping amazement.
Why-why, pardner, where yeh goin'?" he asked unsteadily.
The youth looking at him, could see that he, too, like that other one, was beginning to act dumb and animal-like.
His thoughts seemed to be floundering about in his head. "Now-now-look-a-here, you Tom Jamison-now-I won't have this-this here won't do.
Where-where yeh goin'?" The youth pointed vaguely.
Over there," he replied. "Well, now look-a-here-now," said the tattered man, rambling on in idiot fashion.
His head was hanging forward and his words were slurred. "This thing won't do, now, Tom Jamison.
I know yeh, yeh pig-headed devil.
Yeh wanta go trompin' off with a bad hurt.
It ain't right-now-Tom Jamison-it ain't.
Yeh wanta leave me take keer of yeh, Tom Jamison.
It ain't-right-it ain't-fer yeh t' go-trompin' off-with a bad hurt-it ain't-ain't-ain't right-it ain't." In reply the youth climbed a fence and started away.
He could hear the tattered man bleating plaintively. Once he faced about angrily.
What?" "Look-a-here, now, Tom Jamison-now-it ain't-" The youth went on.
Turning at a distance he saw the tattered man wandering about helplessly in the field. He now thought that he wished he was dead.
His late companion's chance persistency made him feel that he could not keep his crime concealed in his bosom.
It was sure to be brought plain by one of those arrows which cloud the air and are constantly pricking, discovering, proclaiming those things which are willed to be forever hidden.
He admitted that he could not defend himself against this agency.
The woods filtered men and the fields became dotted. As he rounded a hillock, he perceived that the roadway was now a crying mass of wagons, teams, and men.
From the heaving tangle issued exhortations, commands, imprecations.
Fear was sweeping it all along. The cracking whips bit and horses plunged and tugged.
The white-topped wagons strained and stumbled in their exertions like fat sheep. The youth felt comforted in a measure by this sight.
Perhaps, then, he was not so bad after all.
He seated himself and watched the terror-stricken wagons.
They fled like soft, ungainly animals.
There was an amount of pleasure to him in watching the wild march of this vindication. Presently the calm head of a forward-going column of infantry appeared in the road.
Avoiding the obstructions gave it the sinuous movement of a serpent.
The men at the head butted mules with their musket stocks.
They prodded teamsters indifferent to all howls. The men forced their way through parts of the dense mass by strength. The blunt head of the column pushed.
The raving teamsters swore many strange oaths. The commands to make way had the ring of a great importance in them. The men were going forward to the heart of the din.
They were to confront the eager rush of the enemy.
They felt the pride of their onward movement when the remainder of the army seemed trying to dribble down this road.
They tumbled teams about with a fine feeling that it was no matter so long as their column got to the front in time.
This importance made their faces grave and stern.
And the backs of the officers were very rigid. As the youth looked at them the black weight of his woe returned to him.
He felt that he was regarding a procession of chosen beings.
The separation was as great to him as if they had marched with weapons of flame and banners of sunlight.
He could never be like them.
He could have wept in his longings. He searched about in his mind for an adequate malediction for the indefinite cause, the thing upon which men turn the words of final blame.
It-whatever it was-was responsible for him, he said.
There lay the fault. The haste of the column to reach the battle seemed to the forlorn young man to be something much finer than stout fighting.
Heroes, he thought, could find excuses in that long seething lane.
They could retire with perfect self-respect and make excuses to the stars. He wondered what those men had eaten that they could be in such haste to force their way to grim chances of death.
As he watched his envy grew until he thought that he wished to change lives with one of them. He would have liked to have used a tremendous force, he said, throw off himself and become a better.
He thought of the magnificent pathos of his dead body. These thoughts uplifted him.
He felt the quiver of war desire.
In his ears, he heard the ring of victory.
He knew the frenzy of a rapid successful charge.
The music of the trampling feet, the sharp voices, the clanking arms of the column near him made him soar on the red wings of war.
For a few moments he was sublime. He thought that he was about to start for the front.
Indeed, he saw a picture of himself, dust-stained, haggard, panting, flying to the front at the proper moment to seize and throttle the dark, leering witch of calamity. Then the difficulties of the thing began to drag at him.
He hesitated, balancing awkwardly on one foot. He had no rifle; he could not fight with his hands, said he resentfully to his plan.
Well, rifles could be had for the picking.
They were extraordinarily profuse. Also, he continued, it would be a miracle if he found his regiment. Well, he could fight with any regiment. He started forward slowly.
He stepped as if he expected to tread upon some explosive thing.
Doubts and he were struggling. He would truly be a worm if any of his comrades should see him returning thus, the marks of his flight upon him.
There was a reply that the intent fighters did not care for what happened rearward saving that no hostile bayonets appeared there.
In imagination he felt the scrutiny of his companions as he painfully labored through some lies. Eventually, his courage expended itself upon these objections.
In their presence he could not persist in flying high with the wings of war; they rendered it almost impossible for him to see himself in a heroic light. He tumbled headlong. He discovered that he had a scorching thirst.
His face was so dry and grimy that he thought he could feel his skin crackle.
Each bone of his body had an ache in it, and seemingly threatened to break with each movement.
His feet were like two sores.
Also, his body was calling for food.
It was more powerful than a direct hunger.
There was a dull, weight-like feeling in his stomach, and, when he tried to walk, his head swayed and he tottered.
He could not see with distinctness.
Small patches of green mist floated before his vision. While he had been tossed by many emotions, he had not been aware of ailments.
Now they beset him and made clamor.
As he was at last compelled to pay attention to them, his capacity for self-hate was multiplied.
In despair, he declared that he was not like those others. He now conceded it to be impossible that he should ever become a hero. He was a craven loon.
Those pictures of glory were piteous things.
He groaned from his heart and went staggering off. A certain mothlike quality within him kept him in the vicinity of the battle.
He had a great desire to see, and to get news.
The blows of the enemy would splinter regiments into fragments.
Thus, many men of courage, he considered, would be obliged to desert the colors and scurry like chickens.
He would appear as one of them.
They would be sullen brothers in distress, and he could then easily believe he had not run any farther or faster than they.
The shrilling voices of the people at home would pipe dismally for a time, but various generals were usually compelled to listen to these ditties.
He of course felt no compunctions for proposing a general as a sacrifice.
He could not tell who the chosen for the barbs might be, so he could center no direct sympathy upon him.
The people were afar and he did not conceive public opinion to be accurate at long range.
It was quite probable they would hit the wrong man who, after he had recovered from his amazement would perhaps spend the rest of his days in writing replies to the songs of his alleged failure.
It would be very unfortunate, no doubt, but in this case a general was of no consequence to the youth. In a defeat there would be a roundabout vindication of himself.
He thought it would prove, in a manner, that he had fled early because of his superior powers of perception.
A serious prophet upon predicting a flood should be the first man to climb a tree.
This would demonstrate that he was indeed a seer. A moral vindication was regarded by the youth as a very important thing.
Without salve, he could not, he thought, wear the sore badge of his dishonor through life.
With his heart continually assuring him that he was despicable, he could not exist without making it, through his actions, apparent to all men. If the army had gone gloriously on he would be lost.
If the din meant that now his army's flags were tilted forward he was a condemned wretch.
He would be compelled to doom himself to isolation.
If the men were advancing, their indifferent feet were trampling upon his chances for a successful life. As these thoughts went rapidly through his mind, he turned upon them and tried to thrust them away.
He denounced himself as a villain.
He said that he was the most unutterably selfish man in existence.
He believed that he envied a corpse.
Thinking of the slain, he achieved a great contempt for some of them, as if they were guilty for thus becoming lifeless.
They might have been killed by lucky chances, he said, before they had had opportunities to flee or before they had been really tested.
Yet they would receive laurels from tradition.
He considered, now, however, that it was useless to think of such a possibility.
His education had been that success for that mighty blue machine was certain; that it would make victories as a contrivance turns out buttons.
He presently discarded all his speculations in the other direction.
He experimented with many schemes, but threw them aside one by one as flimsy.
He recalled various persons who would be quite sure to leave him no peace about it.
They would doubtless question him with sneers, and laugh at his stammering hesitation.
In the next engagement they would try to keep watch of him to discover when he would run. Wherever he went in camp, he would encounter insolent and lingeringly cruel stares.
As he imagined himself passing near a crowd of comrades, he could hear one say, "There he goes!" Then, as if the heads were moved by one muscle, all the faces were turned toward him with wide, derisive grins.
He seemed to hear some one make a humorous remark in a low tone.
At it the others all crowed and cackled.
He knew at once that the steel fibers had been washed from their hearts.
The voices of the cannon were clamoring in interminable chorus. The youth was horrorstricken.
He stared in agony and amazement.
He forgot that he was engaged in combating the universe.
He threw aside his mental pamphlets on the philosophy of the retreated and rules for the guidance of the damned. The fight was lost.
The dragons were coming with invincible strides. The army, helpless in the matted thickets and blinded by the overhanging night, was going to be swallowed.
War, the red animal, war, the blood-swollen god, would have bloated fill. Within him something bade to cry out.
He had the impulse to make a rallying speech, to sing a battle hymn, but he could only get his tongue to call into the air: "Why-why-what-what's th' matter?" Soon he was in the midst of them.
They were leaping and scampering all about him.
Their blanched faces shone in the dusk.
They seemed, for the most part, to be very burly men.
The youth turned from one to another of them as they galloped along.
His incoherent questions were lost. They were heedless of his appeals.
They did not seem to see him. They sometimes gabbled insanely.
One huge man was asking of the sky: "Say, where de plank road?
It was as if he had lost a child.
He wept in his pain and dismay. Presently, men were running hither and thither in all ways.
The artillery booming, forward, rearward, and on the flanks made jumble of ideas of direction.
Landmarks had vanished into the gathered gloom.
The youth began to imagine that he had got into the center of the tremendous quarrel, and he could perceive no way out of it.
From the mouths of the fleeing men came a thousand wild questions, but no one made answers. The youth, after rushing about and throwing interrogations at the heedless bands of retreating infantry, finally clutched a man by the arm.
They swung around face to face. "Why-why-" stammered the youth struggling with his balking tongue. The man screamed: "Let go me!
His face was livid and his eyes were rolling uncontrolled.
He was heaving and panting.
He still grasped his rifle, perhaps having forgotten to release his hold upon it.
He tugged frantically, and the youth being compelled to lean forward was dragged several paces. "Let go me!
Let go me!" "Why-why-" stuttered the youth. "Well, then!" bawled the man in a lurid rage.
He adroitly and fiercely swung his rifle.
It crushed upon the youth's head.
The man ran on. The youth's fingers had turned to paste upon the other's arm.
The energy was smitten from his muscles.
He saw the flaming wings of lightning flash before his vision.
There was a deafening rumble of thunder within his head. Suddenly his legs seemed to die.
He sank writhing to the ground.
His face was of a clammy pallor.
Deep groans were wrenched from him. At last, with a twisting movement, he got upon his hands and knees, and from thence, like a babe trying to walk, to his feet.
Pressing his hands to his temples he went lurching over the grass. He fought an intense battle with his body.
His dulled senses wished him to swoon and he opposed them stubbornly, his mind portraying unknown dangers and mutilations if he should fall upon the field.
He went tall soldier fashion.
He imagined secluded spots where he could fall and be unmolested.
To search for one he strove against the tide of pain. Once he put his hand to the top of his head and timidly touched the wound.
The scratching pain of the contact made him draw a long breath through his clinched teeth.
His fingers were dabbled with blood.
He regarded them with a fixed stare. Around him he could hear the grumble of jolted cannon as the scurrying horses were lashed toward the front.
Once, a young officer on a besplashed charger nearly ran him down.
He turned and watched the mass of guns, men, and horses sweeping in a wide curve toward a gap in a fence.
The officer was making excited motions with a gauntleted hand. The guns followed the teams with an air of unwillingness, of being dragged by the heels. Some officers of the scattered infantry were cursing and railing like fishwives.
Their scolding voices could be heard above the din.
Into the unspeakable jumble in the roadway rode a squadron of cavalry.
The faded yellow of their facings shone bravely.
There was a mighty altercation. The artillery were assembling as if for a conference. The blue haze of evening was upon the field.
The lines of forest were long purple shadows.
One cloud lay along the western sky partly smothering the red. As the youth left the scene behind him, he heard the guns suddenly roar out.
He imagined them shaking in black rage.
They belched and howled like brass devils guarding a gate.
The soft air was filled with the tremendous remonstrance.
With it came the shattering peal of opposing infantry.
Turning to look behind him, he could see sheets of orange light illumine the shadowy distance.
There were subtle and sudden lightnings in the far air.
At times he thought he could see heaving masses of men. He hurried on in the dusk.
The day had faded until he could barely distinguish place for his feet.
The purple darkness was filled with men who lectured and jabbered.
Sometimes he could see them gesticulating against the blue and somber sky.
There seemed to be a great ruck of men and munitions spread about in the forest and in the fields. The little narrow roadway now lay lifeless.
There were overturned wagons like sun-dried bowlders.
The bed of the former torrent was choked with the bodies of horses and splintered parts of war machines. It had come to pass that his wound pained him but little.
He was afraid to move rapidly, however, for a dread of disturbing it.
He held his head very still and took many precautions against stumbling.
He was filled with anxiety, and his face was pinched and drawn in anticipation of the pain of any sudden mistake of his feet in the gloom. His thoughts, as he walked, fixed intently upon his hurt.
There was a cool, liquid feeling about it and he imagined blood moving slowly down under his hair.
His head seemed swollen to a size that made him think his neck to be inadequate. The new silence of his wound made much worriment.
The little blistering voices of pain that had called out from his scalp were, he thought, definite in their expression of danger.
By them he believed he could measure his plight.
But when they remained ominously silent he became frightened and imagined terrible fingers that clutched into his brain. Amid it he began to reflect upon various incidents and conditions of the past.
He bethought him of certain meals his mother had cooked at home, in which those dishes of which he was particularly fond had occupied prominent positions.
He saw the spread table.
The pine walls of the kitchen were glowing in the warm light from the stove.
Too, he remembered how he and his companions used to go from the school-house to the bank of a shaded pool.
He saw his clothes in disorderly array upon the grass of the bank.
He felt the swash of the fragrant water upon his body.
The leaves of the overhanging maple rustled with melody in the wind of youthful summer. He was overcome presently by a dragging weariness.
His head hung forward and his shoulders were stooped as if he were bearing a great bundle.
His feet shuffled along the ground. He held continuous arguments as to whether he should lie down and sleep at some near spot, or force himself on until he reached a certain haven.
Uh!" The owner of the cheery voice took him firmly by the arm.
Well," he said, with a round laugh, "I'm goin' your way.
Th' hull gang is goin' your way.
An' I guess I kin give yeh a lift.
They began to walk like a drunken man and his friend. As they went along, the man questioned the youth and assisted him with the replies like one manipulating the mind of a child.
What reg'ment do yeh b'long teh?
Why, what corps is that in?
Why, I thought they wasn't engaged t'-day-they're 'way over in th' center.
Well pretty nearly everybody got their share 'a fightin' t'-day.
By dad, I give myself up fer dead any number 'a times.
There was shootin' here an' shootin' there, an' hollerin' here an' hollerin' there, in th' damn' darkness, until I couldn't tell t' save m' soul which side I was on.
Sometimes I thought I was sure 'nough from Ohier, an' other times I could 'a swore I was from th' bitter end of Florida. It was th' most mixed up dern thing I ever see.
An' these here hull woods is a reg'lar mess.
It'll be a miracle if we find our reg'ments t'-night.
Pretty soon, though, we'll meet a-plenty of guards an' provost-guards, an' one thing an' another.
Ho! there they go with an off'cer, I guess.
Look at his hand a-draggin'.
He's got all th' war he wants, I bet.
He won't be talkin' so big about his reputation an' all when they go t' sawin' off his leg.
My brother's got whiskers jest like that.
How did yeh git 'way over here, anyhow?
Your reg'ment is a long way from here, ain't it?
Well, I guess we can find it.
Yeh know there was a boy killed in my comp'ny t'-day that I thought th' world an' all of.
Jack was a nice feller.
By ginger, it hurt like thunder t' see ol' Jack jest git knocked flat.
We was a-standin' purty peaceable fer a spell, 'though there was men runnin' ev'ry way all 'round us, an' while we was a-standin' like that, 'long come a big fat feller.
He began t' peck at Jack's elbow, an' he ses: 'Say, where's th' road t' th' river?
An' Jack, he never paid no attention, an' th' feller kept on a-peckin' at his elbow an' sayin': 'Say, where's th' road t' th' river?
An' jest then a shot slapped him bang on th' side th' head.
He was a sergeant, too.
Them was his last words.
Thunder, I wish we was sure 'a findin' our reg'ments t'-night.
It's goin' t' be long huntin'.
But I guess we kin do it." In the search which followed, the man of the cheery voice seemed to the youth to possess a wand of a magic kind.
He threaded the mazes of the tangled forest with a strange fortune.
In encounters with guards and patrols he displayed the keenness of a detective and the valor of a gamin.
Obstacles fell before him and became of assistance.
See that fire?" The youth nodded stupidly. "Well, there's where your reg'ment is.
An' now, good-by, ol' boy, good luck t' yeh." A warm and strong hand clasped the youth's languid fingers for an instant, and then he heard a cheerful and audacious whistling as the man strode away.
He had a conviction that he would soon feel in his sore heart the barbed missiles of ridicule.
His ailments, clamoring, forced him to seek the place of food and rest, at whatever cost. He swung unsteadily toward the fire.
A rifle barrel caught some glinting beams.
He was dismayed for a moment, but he presently thought that he recognized the nervous voice.
As he stood tottering before the rifle barrel, he called out: "Why, hello, Wilson, you-you here?" The rifle was lowered to a position of caution and the loud soldier came slowly forward.
He peered into the youth's face.
That you, Henry?" "Yes, it's-it's me." "Well, well, ol' boy," said the other, "by ginger, I'm glad t' see yeh! I give yeh up fer a goner.
I thought yeh was dead sure enough.
There was husky emotion in his voice. The youth found that now he could barely stand upon his feet.
There was a sudden sinking of his forces.
He thought he must hasten to produce his tale to protect him from the missiles already on the lips of his redoubtable comrades.
So, staggering before the loud soldier, he began: "Yes, yes.
I've-I've had an awful time.
Way over on th' right.
I had an awful time.
I got separated from the reg'ment.
Over on th' right, I got shot.
I never see sech fightin'.
I don't see how I could a' got separated from th' reg'ment.
I got shot, too." His friend had stepped forward quickly.
Why didn't yeh say so first?
Poor ol' boy, we must-hol' on a minnit; what am I doin'. I'll call Simpson." Another figure at that moment loomed in the gloom.
They could see that it was the corporal.
Who yeh talkin' to, Wilson?" he demanded.
Yeh th' derndest sentinel-why-hello, Henry, you here?
Why, I thought you was dead four hours ago!
Great Jerusalem, they keep turnin' up every ten minutes or so!
We thought we'd lost forty-two men by straight count, but if they keep on a-comin' this way, we'll git th' comp'ny all back by mornin' yit.
Where was yeh?" "Over on th' right.
I got separated"-began the youth with considerable glibness. But his friend had interrupted hastily.
Yes, an' he got shot in th' head an' he's in a fix, an' we must see t' him right away.
He rested his rifle in the hollow of his left arm and his right around the youth's shoulder. "Gee, it must hurt like thunder!" he said. The youth leaned heavily upon his friend.
Yes, it hurts-hurts a good deal," he replied.
There was a faltering in his voice. "Oh," said the corporal.
He linked his arm in the youth's and drew him forward.
I'll take keer 'a yeh." As they went on together the loud private called out after them: "Put 'im t' sleep in my blanket, Simpson.
An'-hol' on a minnit-here's my canteen.
Look at his head by th' fire an' see how it looks.
Maybe it's a pretty bad un.
When I git relieved in a couple 'a minnits, I'll be over an' see t' him." The youth's senses were so deadened that his friend's voice sounded from afar and he could scarcely feel the pressure of the corporal's arm.
He submitted passively to the latter's directing strength.
His head was in the old manner hanging forward upon his breast.
His knees wobbled. The corporal led him into the glare of the fire.
Now, Henry," he said, "let's have look at yer ol' head." The youth sat obediently and the corporal, laying aside his rifle, began to fumble in the bushy hair of his comrade.
He was obliged to turn the other's head so that the full flush of the fire light would beam upon it.
He puckered his mouth with a critical air.
He drew back his lips and whistled through his teeth when his fingers came in contact with the splashed blood and the rare wound. "Ah, here we are!" he said.
He awkwardly made further investigations. "Jest as I thought," he added, presently.
Yeh've been grazed by a ball.
It's raised a queer lump jest as if some feller had lammed yeh on th' head with a club.
It stopped a-bleedin' long time ago.
Th' most about it is that in th' mornin' yeh'll fell that a number ten hat wouldn't fit yeh.
An' your head'll be all het up an' feel as dry as burnt pork.
An' yeh may git a lot 'a other sicknesses, too, by mornin'. Yeh can't never tell.
Still, I don't much think so.
It's jest a damn' good belt on th' head, an' nothin' more.
Now, you jest sit here an' don't move, while I go rout out th' relief.
Then I'll send Wilson t' take keer 'a yeh." The corporal went away.
The youth remained on the ground like a parcel. He stared with a vacant look into the fire. After a time he aroused, for some part, and the things about him began to take form.
He saw that the ground in the deep shadows was cluttered with men, sprawling in every conceivable posture.
Glancing narrowly into the more distant darkness, he caught occasional glimpses of visages that loomed pallid and ghostly, lit with a phosphorescent glow. These faces expressed in their lines the deep stupor of the tired soldiers.
They made them appear like men drunk with wine.
There was something perilous in his position.
Badgered by dreams, perhaps, he swayed with little bounces and starts, like an old, toddy-stricken grandfather in a chimney corner.
Dust and stains were upon his face.
His lower jaw hung down as if lacking strength to assume its normal position.
He was the picture of an exhausted soldier after a feast of war. He had evidently gone to sleep with his sword in his arms.
These two had slumbered in an embrace, but the weapon had been allowed in time to fall unheeded to the ground.
The brass-mounted hilt lay in contact with some parts of the fire. Within the gleam of rose and orange light from the burning sticks were other soldiers, snoring and heaving, or lying deathlike in slumber.
A few pairs of legs were stuck forth, rigid and straight.
The shoes displayed the mud or dust of marches and bits of rounded trousers, protruding from the blankets, showed rents and tears from hurried pitchings through the dense brambles. The fire cackled musically.
From it swelled light smoke.
Overhead the foliage moved softly.
The leaves, with their faces turned toward the blaze, were colored shifting hues of silver, often edged with red.
Well, now, Henry, ol' boy," said the latter, "we'll have yeh fixed up in jest about a minnit." He had the bustling ways of an amateur nurse.
He fussed around the fire and stirred the sticks to brilliant exertions.
He made his patient drink largely from the canteen that contained the coffee.
It was to the youth a delicious draught.
He tilted his head afar back and held the canteen long to his lips.
The cool mixture went caressingly down his blistered throat.
Having finished, he sighed with comfortable delight. The loud young soldier watched his comrade with an air of satisfaction. He later produced an extensive handkerchief from his pocket.
He folded it into a manner of bandage and soused water from the other canteen upon the middle of it.
Upon his aching and swelling head the cold cloth was like a tender woman's hand. "Yeh don't holler ner say nothin'," remarked his friend approvingly.
I know I'm a blacksmith at takin' keer 'a sick folks, an' yeh never squeaked.
Yer a good un, Henry.
Most 'a men would a' been in th' hospital long ago.
A shot in th' head ain't foolin' business." The youth made no reply, but began to fumble with the buttons of his jacket. "Well, come, now," continued his friend, "come on.
I must put yeh t' bed an' see that yeh git a good night's rest." The other got carefully erect, and the loud young soldier led him among the sleeping forms lying in groups and rows.
Presently he stooped and picked up his blankets.
He stretched out with a murmur of relief and comfort.
The ground felt like the softest couch. But of a sudden he ejaculated: "Hol' on a minnit!
Where you goin' t' sleep?" His friend waved his hand impatiently.
Right down there by yeh." "Well, but hol' on a minnit," continued the youth.
What yeh goin' t' sleep in?
I've got your-" The loud young soldier snarled: "Shet up an' go on t' sleep.
Don't be makin' a damn' fool 'a yerself," he said severely. After the reproof the youth said no more.
An exquisite drowsiness had spread through him.
The warm comfort of the blanket enveloped him and made a gentle langour.
His head fell forward on his crooked arm and his weighted lids went softly down over his eyes.
Hearing a splatter of musketry from the distance, he wondered indifferently if those men sometimes slept.
Gray mists were slowly shifting before the first efforts of the sun rays.
An impending splendor could be seen in the eastern sky.
An icy dew had chilled his face, and immediately upon arousing he curled farther down into his blanket.
They were getting a last draught of sleep before the awakening.
The gaunt, careworn features and dusty figures were made plain by this quaint light at the dawning, but it dressed the skin of the men in corpse-like hues and made the tangled limbs appear pulseless and dead.
The youth started up with a little cry when his eyes first swept over this motionless mass of men, thick-spread upon the ground, pallid, and in strange postures.
His disordered mind interpreted the hall of the forest as a charnel place.
He believed for an instant that he was in the house of the dead, and he did not dare to move lest these corpses start up, squalling and squawking.
In a second, however, he achieved his proper mind.
He swore a complicated oath at himself.
A few other figures moved in the fog, and he heard the hard cracking of axe blows. Suddenly there was a hollow rumble of drums.
A distant bugle sang faintly.
Similar sounds, varying in strength, came from near and far over the forest.
The bugles called to each other like brazen gamecocks. The near thunder of the regimental drums rolled. The body of men in the woods rustled.
There was a general uplifting of heads.
A murmuring of voices broke upon the air.
In it there was much bass of grumbling oaths.
Strange gods were addressed in condemnation of the early hours necessary to correct war.
An officer's peremptory tenor rang out and quickened the stiffened movement of the men.
The corpse-hued faces were hidden behind fists that twisted slowly in the eye sockets. The youth sat up and gave vent to an enormous yawn.
He rubbed his eyes, and then putting up his hand felt carefully the bandage over his wound.
His friend, perceiving him to be awake, came from the fire.
Well, Henry, ol' man, how do yeh feel this mornin'?" he demanded. The youth yawned again.
Then he puckered his mouth to a little pucker. His head, in truth, felt precisely like a melon, and there was an unpleasant sensation at his stomach. "Oh, Lord, I feel pretty bad," he said. "Thunder!" exclaimed the other.
I hoped ye'd feel all right this mornin'.
Let's see th' bandage-I guess it's slipped.
He began to tinker at the wound in rather a clumsy way until the youth exploded. "Gosh-dern it!" he said in sharp irritation; "you're the hangdest man I ever saw!
You wear muffs on your hands.
Why in good thunderation can't you be more easy?
I'd rather you'd stand off an' throw guns at it.
Now, go slow, an' don't act as if you was nailing down carpet." He glared with insolent command at his friend, but the latter answered soothingly.
Well, well, come now, an' git some grub," he said.
Then, maybe, yeh'll feel better." At the fireside the loud young soldier watched over his comrade's wants with tenderness and care.
He was very busy marshaling the little black vagabonds of tin cups and pouring into them the streaming iron colored mixture from a small and sooty tin pail.
He had some fresh meat, which he roasted hurriedly on a stick.
He sat down then and contemplated the youth's appetite with glee. The youth took note of a remarkable change in his comrade since those days of camp life upon the river bank.
He seemed no more to be continually regarding the proportions of his personal prowess.
He was not furious at small words that pricked his conceits.
He was no more a loud young soldier.
There was about him now a fine reliance.
He showed a quiet belief in his purposes and his abilities.
And this inward confidence evidently enabled him to be indifferent to little words of other men aimed at him. The youth reflected.
He had been used to regarding his comrade as a blatant child with an audacity grown from his inexperience, thoughtless, headstrong, jealous, and filled with a tinsel courage.
A swaggering babe accustomed to strut in his own dooryard.
The youth wondered where had been born these new eyes; when his comrade had made the great discovery that there were many men who would refuse to be subjected by him.
Apparently, the other had now climbed a peak of wisdom from which he could perceive himself as a very wee thing.
And the youth saw that ever after it would be easier to live in his friend's neighborhood. His comrade balanced his ebony coffee-cup on his knee.
Well, Henry," he said, "what d'yeh think th' chances are?
D'yeh think we'll wallop 'em?" The youth considered for a moment.
Day-b'fore-yesterday," he finally replied, with boldness, "you would 'a' bet you'd lick the hull kit-an'-boodle all by yourself." His friend looked a trifle amazed.
He pondered. "Well, perhaps I would," he decided at last.
He stared humbly at the fire. The youth was quite disconcerted at this surprising reception of his remarks.
Oh, no, you wouldn't either," he said, hastily trying to retrace. But the other made a deprecating gesture.
Oh, yeh needn't mind, Henry," he said.
I believe I was a pretty big fool in those days.
He spoke as after a lapse of years. There was a little pause. "All th' officers say we've got th' rebs in a pretty tight box," said the friend, clearing his throat in a commonplace way.
They all seem t' think we've got 'em jest where we want 'em." "I don't know about that," the youth replied.
What I seen over on th' right makes me think it was th' other way about.
From where I was, it looked as if we was gettin' a good poundin' yestirday." "D'yeh think so?" inquired the friend.
I thought we handled 'em pretty rough yestirday." "Not a bit," said the youth.
Why, lord, man, you didn't see nothing of the fight.
Then a sudden thought came to him.
Jim Conklin's dead." His friend started.
Jim Conklin?" The youth spoke slowly.
Shot in th' side." "Yeh don't say so.
Jim Conklin. . .poor cuss!" All about them were other small fires surrounded by men with their little black utensils.
From one of these near came sudden sharp voices in a row.
It appeared that two light-footed soldiers had been teasing a huge, bearded man, causing him to spill coffee upon his blue knees.
The man had gone into a rage and had sworn comprehensively.
Stung by his language, his tormentors had immediately bristled at him with a great show of resenting unjust oaths.
Possibly there was going to be a fight. The friend arose and went over to them, making pacific motions with his arms.
Oh, here, now, boys, what's th' use?" he said.
We'll be at th' rebs in less'n an hour.
What's th' good fightin' 'mong ourselves?" One of the light-footed soldiers turned upon him red-faced and violent. "Yeh needn't come around here with yer preachin'.
I s'pose yeh don't approve 'a fightin' since Charley Morgan licked yeh; but I don't see what business this here is 'a yours or anybody else." "Well, it ain't," said the friend mildly.
Still I hate t' see-" There was a tangled argument. "Well, he-," said the two, indicating their opponent with accusative forefingers. The huge soldier was quite purple with rage.
He pointed at the two soldiers with his great hand, extended clawlike.
Well, they-" But during this argumentative time the desire to deal blows seemed to pass, although they said much to each other.
Finally the friend returned to his old seat.
In a short while the three antagonists could be seen together in an amiable bunch. "Jimmie Rogers ses I'll have t' fight him after th' battle t'-day," announced the friend as he again seated himself.
He ses he don't allow no interferin' in his business.
I hate t' see th' boys fightin' 'mong themselves." The youth laughed.
Yer changed a good bit.
Yeh ain't at all like yeh was.
Oh, yeh needn't mind, Henry." There was another little pause. "Th' reg'ment lost over half th' men yestirday," remarked the friend eventually.
I thought 'a course they was all dead, but, laws, they kep' a-comin' back last night until it seems, after all, we didn't lose but a few.
They'd been scattered all over, wanderin' around in th' woods, fightin' with other reg'ments, an' everything.
It made him start. He uttered an exclamation and turned toward his comrade. "Wilson!" "What?" His friend, at his side in the ranks, was thoughtfully staring down the road.
From some cause his expression was at that moment very meek.
The youth, regarding him with sidelong glances, felt impelled to change his purpose.
Oh, nothing," he said. His friend turned his head in some surprise, "Why, what was yeh goin' t' say?" "Oh, nothing," repeated the youth. He resolved not to deal the little blow.
It was sufficient that the fact made him glad.
It was not necessary to knock his friend on the head with the misguided packet. He had been possessed of much fear of his friend, for he saw how easily questionings could make holes in his feelings.
It would now be he who could laugh and shoot the shafts of derision. The friend had, in a weak hour, spoken with sobs of his own death.
He had delivered a melancholy oration previous to his funeral, and had doubtless in the packet of letters, presented various keepsakes to relatives.
But he had not died, and thus he had delivered himself into the hands of the youth. The latter felt immensely superior to his friend, but he inclined to condescension.
He adopted toward him an air of patronizing good humor. His self-pride was now entirely restored.
He had performed his mistakes in the dark, so he was still a man. Indeed, when he remembered his fortunes of yesterday, and looked at them from a distance he began to see something fine there.
Few but they ever did it.
A man with a full stomach and the respect of his fellows had no business to scold about anything that he might think to be wrong in the ways of the universe, or even with the ways of society.
Let the unfortunates rail; the others may play marbles. He did not give a great deal of thought to these battles that lay directly before him.
It was not essential that he should plan his ways in regard to them.
He had been taught that many obligations of a life were easily avoided.
The lessons of yesterday had been that retribution was a laggard and blind.
With these facts before him he did not deem it necessary that he should become feverish over the possibilities of the ensuing twenty-four hours.
He could leave much to chance.
Besides, a faith in himself had secretly blossomed.
There was a little flower of confidence growing within him.
He was now a man of experience.
He had been out among the dragons, he said, and he assured himself that they were not so hideous as he had imagined them.
Also, they were inaccurate; they did not sting with precision.
A stout heart often defied, and defying, escaped. And, furthermore, how could they kill him who was the chosen of gods and doomed to greatness? He remembered how some of the men had run from the battle.
As he recalled their terror-struck faces he felt a scorn for them.
They had surely been more fleet and more wild than was absolutely necessary. They were weak mortals.
He fidgeted in his jacket. "Well," he gulped at last, "I guess yeh might as well give me back them letters.
Dark, prickling blood had flushed into his cheeks and brow. "All right, Wilson," said the youth.
He loosened two buttons of his coat, thrust in his hand, and brought forth the packet.
As he extended it to his friend the latter's face was turned from him. He had been slow in the act of producing the packet because during it he had been trying to invent a remarkable comment on the affair.
He could conjure up nothing of sufficient point.
He was compelled to allow his friend to escape unmolested with his packet.
And for this he took unto himself considerable credit.
It was a generous thing. His friend at his side seemed suffering great shame.
As he contemplated him, the youth felt his heart grow more strong and stout.
He had never been compelled to blush in such manner for his acts; he was an individual of extraordinary virtues. He reflected, with condescending pity: "Too bad!
The poor devil, it makes him feel tough!" After this incident, and as he reviewed the battle pictures he had seen, he felt quite competent to return home and make the hearts of the people glow with stories of war.
He could see himself in a room of warm tints telling tales to listeners.
They were insignificant; still, in a district where laurels were infrequent, they might shine. He saw his gaping audience picturing him as the central figure in blazing scenes.
And he imagined the consternation and the ejaculations of his mother and the young lady at the seminary as they drank his recitals.
Their vague feminine formula for beloved ones doing brave deeds on the field of battle without risk of life would be destroyed. Chapter XVI. A sputtering of musketry was always to be heard.
Later, the cannon had entered the dispute.
In the fog-filled air their voices made a thudding sound.
This part of the world led a strange, battleful existence. The youth's regiment was marched to relieve a command that had lain long in some damp trenches.
The men took positions behind a curving line of rifle pits that had been turned up, like a large furrow, along the line of woods.
Before them was a level stretch, peopled with short, deformed stumps.
From the woods beyond came the dull popping of the skirmishers and pickets, firing in the fog.
From the right came the noise of a terrific fracas. The men cuddled behind the small embankment and sat in easy attitudes awaiting their turn.
Many had their backs to the firing.
Curtains of trees interfered with his ways of vision.
He could see the low line of trenches but for a short distance.
A few idle flags were perched on the dirt hills.
The guns were roaring without an instant's pause for breath.
It seemed that the cannon had come from all parts and were engaged in a stupendous wrangle.
It became impossible to make a sentence heard. The youth wished to launch a joke-a quotation from newspapers.
He desired to say, "All quiet on the Rappahannock," but the guns refused to permit even a comment upon their uproar.
He never successfully concluded the sentence.
The men's faces grew doleful from the interpreting of omens.
Tales of hesitation and uncertainty on the part of those high in place and responsibility came to their ears.
Stories of disaster were borne into their minds with many proofs.
This din of musketry on the right, growing like a released genie of sound, expressed and emphasized the army's plight. The men were disheartened and began to mutter.
They made gestures expressive of the sentence: "Ah, what more can we do?
The disordered, hurrying lines of the enemy could sometimes be seen down through the groves and little fields.
They were yelling, shrill and exultant. At this sight the youth forgot many personal matters and became greatly enraged.
He exploded in loud sentences.
B'jiminey, we're generaled by a lot 'a lunkheads." "More than one feller has said that t'-day," observed a man. His friend, recently aroused, was still very drowsy.
He looked behind him until his mind took in the meaning of the movement.
Then he sighed. "Oh, well, I s'pose we got licked," he remarked sadly. The youth had a thought that it would not be handsome for him to freely condemn other men.
He made an attempt to restrain himself, but the words upon his tongue were too bitter.
He presently began a long and intricate denunciation of the commander of the forces. "Mebbe, it wa'n't all his fault-not all together.
He did th' best he knowed.
It's our luck t' git licked often," said his friend in a weary tone.
He was trudging along with stooped shoulders and shifting eyes like a man who has been caned and kicked. "Well, don't we fight like the devil?
Don't we do all that men can?" demanded the youth loudly. He was secretly dumfounded at this sentiment when it came from his lips.
For a moment his face lost its valor and he looked guiltily about him.
But no one questioned his right to deal in such words, and presently he recovered his air of courage.
He went on to repeat a statement he had heard going from group to group at the camp that morning.
The brigadier said he never saw a new reg'ment fight the way we fought yestirday, didn't he?
And we didn't do better than many another reg'ment, did we?
Well, then, you can't say it's th' army's fault, can you?" In his reply, the friend's voice was stern.
A course not," he said. "No man dare say we don't fight like th' devil.
No man will ever dare say it.
Th' boys fight like hell-roosters.
But still-still, we don't have no luck." "Well, then, if we fight like the devil an' don't ever whip, it must be the general's fault," said the youth grandly and decisively.
And I don't see any sense in fighting and fighting and fighting, yet always losing through some derned old lunkhead of a general." A sarcastic man who was tramping at the youth's side, then spoke lazily.
Mebbe yeh think yeh fit th' hull battle yestirday, Fleming," he remarked. The speech pierced the youth.
Inwardly he was reduced to an abject pulp by these chance words.
He cast a frightened glance at the sarcastic man. "Why, no," he hastened to say in a conciliating voice "I don't think I fought the whole battle yesterday." But the other seemed innocent of any deeper meaning.
Apparently, he had no information.
It was merely his habit.
Oh!" he replied in the same tone of calm derision. The youth, nevertheless, felt a threat.
His mind shrank from going near to the danger, and thereafter he was silent.
The significance of the sarcastic man's words took from him all loud moods that would make him appear prominent.
He became suddenly a modest person. There was low-toned talk among the troops.
The officers were impatient and snappy, their countenances clouded with the tales of misfortune. The troops, sifting through the forest, were sullen.
In the youth's company once a man's laugh rang out.
A dozen soldiers turned their faces quickly toward him and frowned with vague displeasure. The noise of firing dogged their footsteps.
Sometimes, it seemed to be driven a little way, but it always returned again with increased insolence.
The men muttered and cursed, throwing black looks in its direction. In a clear space the troops were at last halted.
The woods began to crackle as if afire. "Whoop-a-dadee," said a man, "here we are!
Blood an' destruction." "I was willin' t' bet they'd attack as soon as th' sun got fairly up," savagely asserted the lieutenant who commanded the youth's company.
He jerked without mercy at his little mustache.
He strode to and fro with dark dignity in the rear of his men, who were lying down behind whatever protection they had collected. A battery had trundled into position in the rear and was thoughtfully shelling the distance.
The regiment, unmolested as yet, awaited the moment when the gray shadows of the woods before them should be slashed by the lines of flame.
There was much growling and swearing. "Good Gawd," the youth grumbled, "we're always being chased around like rats!
Nobody seems to know where we go or why we go. We just get fired around from pillar to post and get licked here and get licked there, and nobody knows what it's done for.
It makes a man feel like a damn' kitten in a bag.
Now, I'd like to know what the eternal thunders we was marched into these woods for anyhow, unless it was to give the rebs a regular pot shot at us.
We came in here and got our legs all tangled up in these cussed briers, and then we begin to fight and the rebs had an easy time of it.
Don't tell me it's just luck!
It's this derned old-" The friend seemed jaded, but he interrupted his comrade with a voice of calm confidence.
It'll turn out all right in th' end," he said. "Oh, the devil it will!
You always talk like a dog-hanged parson.
I know-" At this time there was an interposition by the savage-minded lieutenant, who was obliged to vent some of his inward dissatisfaction upon his men.
You boys shut right up!
There no need 'a your wastin' your breath in long-winded arguments about this an' that an' th' other. You've been jawin' like a lot 'a old hens.
All you've got t' do is to fight, an' you'll get plenty 'a that t' do in about ten minutes.
Less talkin' an' more fightin' is what's best for you boys.
I never saw sech gabbling jackasses." He paused, ready to pounce upon any man who might have the temerity to reply.
A sort of a gust of battle came sweeping toward that part of the line where lay the youth's regiment.
The front shifted a trifle to meet it squarely.
In this part of the field there passed slowly the intense moments that precede the tempest. A single rifle flashed in a thicket before the regiment.
In an instant it was joined by many others.
There was a mighty song of clashes and crashes that went sweeping through the woods.
The guns in the rear, aroused and enraged by shells that had been thrown burr-like at them, suddenly involved themselves in a hideous altercation with another band of guns.
The battle roar settled to a rolling thunder, which was a single, long explosion. In the regiment there was a peculiar kind of hesitation denoted in the attitudes of the men.
They were worn, exhausted, having slept but little and labored much.
They rolled their eyes toward the advancing battle as they stood awaiting the shock.
They stood as men tied to stakes. Chapter XVII. This advance of the enemy had seemed to the youth like a ruthless hunting.
He began to fume with rage and exasperation.
He beat his foot upon the ground, and scowled with hate at the swirling smoke that was approaching like a phantom flood.
There was a maddening quality in this seeming resolution of the foe to give him no rest, to give him no time to sit down and think.
Yesterday he had fought and had fled rapidly. There had been many adventures.
For to-day he felt that he had earned opportunities for contemplative repose.
He could have enjoyed portraying to uninitiated listeners various scenes at which he had been a witness or ably discussing the processes of war with other proved men.
Too it was important that he should have time for physical recuperation.
He was sore and stiff from his experiences.
He had received his fill of all exertions, and he wished to rest. But those other men seemed never to grow weary; they were fighting with their old speed.
He had a wild hate for the relentless foe.
Yesterday, when he had imagined the universe to be against him, he had hated it, little gods and big gods; to-day he hated the army of the foe with the same great hatred.
He was not going to be badgered of his life, like a kitten chased by boys, he said.
It was not well to drive men into final corners; at those moments they could all develop teeth and claws. He leaned and spoke into his friend's ear.
He menaced the woods with a gesture.
If they keep on chasing us, by Gawd, they'd better watch out. Can't stand _too_ much." The friend twisted his head and made a calm reply.
If they keep on a-chasin' us they'll drive us all inteh th' river." The youth cried out savagely at this statement.
He crouched behind a little tree, with his eyes burning hatefully and his teeth set in a cur-like snarl.
The awkward bandage was still about his head, and upon it, over his wound, there was a spot of dry blood.
His hair was wondrously tousled, and some straggling, moving locks hung over the cloth of the bandage down toward his forehead.
His jacket and shirt were open at the throat, and exposed his young bronzed neck.
There could be seen spasmodic gulpings at his throat. His fingers twined nervously about his rifle.
He wished that it was an engine of annihilating power.
He felt that he and his companions were being taunted and derided from sincere convictions that they were poor and puny.
His knowledge of his inability to take vengeance for it made his rage into a dark and stormy specter, that possessed him and made him dream of abominable cruelties.
A moment later the regiment roared forth its sudden and valiant retort.
A dense wall of smoke settled down.
It was furiously slit and slashed by the knifelike fire from the rifles. To the youth the fighters resembled animals tossed for a death struggle into a dark pit.
There was a sensation that he and his fellows, at bay, were pushing back, always pushing fierce onslaughts of creatures who were slippery.
It swung its ends to and fro in an agony of fear and rage. The youth was not conscious that he was erect upon his feet.
He did not know the direction of the ground.
Indeed, once he even lost the habit of balance and fell heavily.
He was up again immediately.
One thought went through the chaos of his brain at the time.
He wondered if he had fallen because he had been shot.
But the suspicion flew away at once. He did not think more of it. He had taken up a first position behind the little tree, with a direct determination to hold it against the world.
He had not deemed it possible that his army could that day succeed, and from this he felt the ability to fight harder.
But the throng had surged in all ways, until he lost directions and locations, save that he knew where lay the enemy. The flames bit him, and the hot smoke broiled his skin.
His rifle barrel grew so hot that ordinarily he could not have borne it upon his palms; but he kept on stuffing cartridges into it, and pounding them with his clanking, bending ramrod.
And when he was compelled to retire again, he did it slowly, sullenly, taking steps of wrathful despair. Once he, in his intent hate, was almost alone, and was firing, when all those near him had ceased.
He was so engrossed in his occupation that he was not aware of a lull. He was recalled by a hoarse laugh and a sentence that came to his ears in a voice of contempt and amazement.
Yeh infernal fool, don't yeh know enough t' quit when there ain't anything t' shoot at?
Good Gawd!" He turned then and, pausing with his rifle thrown half into position, looked at the blue line of his comrades.
During this moment of leisure they seemed all to be engaged in staring with astonishment at him.
Turning to the front again he saw, under the lifted smoke, a deserted ground. He looked bewildered for a moment.
Then there appeared upon the glazed vacancy of his eyes a diamond point of intelligence.
Oh," he said, comprehending. He returned to his comrades and threw himself upon the ground.
He sprawled like a man who had been thrashed.
His flesh seemed strangely on fire, and the sounds of the battle continued in his ears.
He groped blindly for his canteen. The lieutenant was crowing.
He seemed drunk with fighting.
He called out to the youth: "By heavens, if I had ten thousand wild cats like you I could tear th' stomach outa this war in less'n a week!
He puffed out his chest with large dignity as he said it. Some of the men muttered and looked at the youth in awestruck ways.
It was plain that as he had gone on loading and firing and cursing without proper intermission, they had found time to regard him.
And they now looked upon him as a war devil. The friend came staggering to him.
There was some fright and dismay in his voice.
Are yeh all right, Fleming?
Do yeh feel all right?
There ain't nothin' th' matter with yeh, Henry, is there?" "No," said the youth with difficulty.
His throat seemed full of knobs and burrs. These incidents made the youth ponder.
It was revealed to him that he had been a barbarian, a beast.
He had fought like a pagan who defends his religion.
Regarding it, he saw that it was fine, wild, and, in some ways, easy.
He had been a tremendous figure, no doubt.
By this struggle he had overcome obstacles which he had admitted to be mountains.
They had fallen like paper peaks, and he was now what he called a hero.
And he had not been aware of the process.
He had slept, and, awakening, found himself a knight. He lay and basked in the occasional stares of his comrades.
Their faces were varied in degrees of blackness from the burned powder.
They were reeking with perspiration, and their breaths came hard and wheezing.
And from these soiled expanses they peered at him. "Hot work!
Hot work!" cried the lieutenant deliriously.
He walked up and down, restless and eager.
Sometimes his voice could be heard in a wild, incomprehensible laugh. When he had a particularly profound thought upon the science of war he always unconsciously addressed himself to the youth. There was some grim rejoicing by the men.
If an ol' woman swep' up th' woods she'd git a dustpanful." "Yes, an' if she'll come around ag'in in 'bout an hour she'll get a pile more." The forest still bore its burden of clamor.
From off under the trees came the rolling clatter of the musketry.
Each distant thicket seemed a strange porcupine with quills of flame.
The chests of the men strained for a bit of freshness, and their throats craved water. There was one shot through the body, who raised a cry of bitter lamentation when came this lull.
Perhaps he had been calling out during the fighting also, but at that time no one had heard him.
But now the men turned at the woeful complaints of him upon the ground. "Who is it?
Who is it?" "Its Jimmie Rogers.
Jimmie Rogers." When their eyes first encountered him there was a sudden halt, as if they feared to go near.
He was thrashing about in the grass, twisting his shuddering body into many strange postures.
This instant's hesitation seemed to fill him with a tremendous, fantastic contempt, and he damned them in shrieked sentences. The youth's friend had a geographical illusion concerning a stream, and he obtained permission to go for some water.
Immediately canteens were showered upon him.
The youth went with his friend, feeling a desire to throw his heated body into the stream and, soaking there, drink quarts. They made a hurried search for the supposed stream, but did not find it.
No water here," said the youth.
Over some foliage they could see the roof of a house.
One window, glowing a deep murder red, shone squarely through the leaves.
From the edifice a tall leaning tower of smoke went far into the sky. Looking over their own troops, they saw mixed masses slowly getting into regular form.
The sunlight made twinkling points of the bright steel.
To the rear there was a glimpse of a distant roadway as it curved over a slope.
It was crowded with retreating infantry.
From all the interwoven forest arose the smoke and bluster of the battle.
The air was always occupied by a blaring. Near where they stood shells were flip-flapping and hooting.
Occasional bullets buzzed in the air and spanged into tree trunks.
The general reined strongly at his charger's opened and foamy mouth and guided it with dexterous horsemanship past the man.
The latter scrambled in wild and torturing haste.
His strength evidently failed him as he reached a place of safety.
One of his arms suddenly weakened, and he fell, sliding over upon his back.
He lay stretched out, breathing gently. A moment later the small, creaking cavalcade was directly in front of the two soldiers.
Perhaps, they thought, some great inner historical things would be said. The general, whom the boys knew as the commander of their division, looked at the other officer and spoke coolly, as if he were criticising his clothes.
Th' enemy's formin' over there for another charge," he said.
It'll be directed against Whiterside, an' I fear they'll break through unless we work like thunder t' stop them." The other swore at his restive horse, and then cleared his throat.
He made a gesture toward his cap.
It'll be hell t' pay stoppin' them," he said shortly. "I presume so," remarked the general.
Then he began to talk rapidly and in a lower tone.
He frequently illustrated his words with a pointing finger.
The two infantrymen could hear nothing until finally he asked: "What troops can you spare?" The officer who rode like a cowboy reflected for an instant.
Well," he said, "I had to order in th' 12th to help th' 76th, an' I haven't really got any.
They fight like a lot 'a mule drivers.
I can spare them best of any." The youth and his friend exchanged glances of astonishment. The general spoke sharply.
I'll watch developments from here, an' send you word when t' start them.
He smiled. With scared faces, the youth and his companion hurried back to the line. These happenings had occupied an incredibly short time, yet the youth felt that in them he had been made aged.
New eyes were given to him. And the most startling thing was to learn suddenly that he was very insignificant.
The officer spoke of the regiment as if he referred to a broom.
Some part of the woods needed sweeping, perhaps, and he merely indicated a broom in a tone properly indifferent to its fate.
It was war, no doubt, but it appeared strange. As the two boys approached the line, the lieutenant perceived them and swelled with wrath.
Fleming-Wilson-how long does it take yeh to git water, anyhow-where yeh been to." But his oration ceased as he saw their eyes, which were large with great tales.
We're goin' t' charge-we're goin' t' charge!" cried the youth's friend, hastening with his news. "Charge?" said the lieutenant.
Now, this is real fightin'.
Over his soiled countenance there went a boastful smile. "Charge?
Well, b'Gawd!" A little group of soldiers surrounded the two youths.
Wilson, you're lyin'." "I hope to die," said the youth, pitching his tones to the key of angry remonstrance.
Sure as shooting, I tell you." And his friend spoke in re-enforcement.
Not by a blame sight, he ain't lyin'.
We heard 'em talkin'." They caught sight of two mounted figures a short distance from them. One was the colonel of the regiment and the other was the officer who had received orders from the commander of the division.
They were gesticulating at each other.
The soldier, pointing at them, interpreted the scene. One man had a final objection: "How could yeh hear 'em talkin'?
But the men, for a large part, nodded, admitting that previously the two friends had spoken truth. They settled back into reposeful attitudes with airs of having accepted the matter.
And they mused upon it, with a hundred varieties of expression.
It was an engrossing thing to think about.
Many tightened their belts carefully and hitched at their trousers. A moment later the officers began to bustle among the men, pushing them into a more compact mass and into a better alignment.
They chased those that straggled and fumed at a few men who seemed to show by their attitudes that they had decided to remain at that spot.
They were like critical shepherds, struggling with sheep. Presently, the regiment seemed to draw itself up and heave a deep breath.
None of the men's faces were mirrors of large thoughts.
The soldiers were bended and stooped like sprinters before a signal.
Many pairs of glinting eyes peered from the grimy faces toward the curtains of the deeper woods.
They seemed to be engaged in deep calculations of time and distance. They were surrounded by the noises of the monstrous altercation between the two armies.
The world was fully interested in other matters. Apparently, the regiment had its small affair to itself. The youth, turning, shot a quick, inquiring glance at his friend.
The latter returned to him the same manner of look.
They were the only ones who possessed an inner knowledge.
Mule drivers-hell t' pay-don't believe many will get back.
It was an ironical secret.
Its foliages now seemed to veil powers and horrors.
He was unaware of the machinery of orders that started the charge, although from the corners of his eyes he saw an officer, who looked like a boy a-horseback, come galloping, waving his hat.
Suddenly he felt a straining and heaving among the men.
The line fell slowly forward like a toppling wall, and, with a convulsive gasp that was intended for a cheer, the regiment began its journey.
He had believed throughout that it was a mere question of getting over an unpleasant matter as quickly as possible, and he ran desperately, as if pursued for a murder.
His face was drawn hard and tight with the stress of his endeavor.
His eyes were fixed in a lurid glare.
Yellow flames leaped toward it from many directions.
The forest made a tremendous objection. The line lurched straight for a moment.
Then the right wing swung forward; it in turn was surpassed by the left.
His eyes still kept note of the clump of trees.
From all places near it the clannish yell of the enemy could be heard.
The little flames of rifles leaped from it.
The song of the bullets was in the air and shells snarled among the treetops.
One tumbled directly into the middle of a hurrying group and exploded in crimson fury.
There was an instant spectacle of a man, almost over it, throwing up his hands to shield his eyes. Other men, punched by bullets, fell in grotesque agonies.
The regiment left a coherent trail of bodies. They had passed into a clearer atmosphere.
There was an effect like a revelation in the new appearance of the landscape.
Some men working madly at a battery were plain to them, and the opposing infantry's lines were defined by the gray walls and fringes of smoke. It seemed to the youth that he saw everything.
Each blade of the green grass was bold and clear.
He thought that he was aware of every change in the thin, transparent vapor that floated idly in sheets.
His mind took a mechanical but firm impression, so that afterward everything was pictured and explained to him, save why he himself was there. But there was a frenzy made from this furious rush.
The men, pitching forward insanely, had burst into cheerings, moblike and barbaric, but tuned in strange keys that can arouse the dullard and the stoic.
It made a mad enthusiasm that, it seemed, would be incapable of checking itself before granite and brass.
There was the delirium that encounters despair and death, and is heedless and blind to the odds.
It is a temporary but sublime absence of selfishness.
And because it was of this order was the reason, perhaps, why the youth wondered, afterward, what reasons he could have had for being there. Presently the straining pace ate up the energies of the men.
As if by agreement, the leaders began to slacken their speed.
The volleys directed against them had had a seeming windlike effect.
The regiment snorted and blew.
Among some stolid trees it began to falter and hesitate.
The men, staring intently, began to wait for some of the distant walls of smoke to move and disclose to them the scene.
Since much of their strength and their breath had vanished, they returned to caution.
Long and accurate fringes of smoke spread out.
From the top of a small hill came level belchings of yellow flame that caused an inhuman whistling in the air. The men, halted, had opportunity to see some of their comrades dropping with moans and shrieks.
A few lay under foot, still or wailing.
And now for an instant the men stood, their rifles slack in their hands, and watched the regiment dwindle.
They appeared dazed and stupid.
This spectacle seemed to paralyze them, overcome them with a fatal fascination.
They stared woodenly at the sights, and, lowering their eyes, looked from face to face.
It was a strange pause, and a strange silence. Then, above the sounds of the outside commotion, arose the roar of the lieutenant.
He strode suddenly forth, his infantile features black with rage. "Come on, yeh fools!" he bellowed.
He said more, but much of it could not be understood. He started rapidly forward, with his head turned toward the men, "Come on," he was shouting.
The men stared with blank and yokel-like eyes at him.
He was obliged to halt and retrace his steps.
He stood then with his back to the enemy and delivered gigantic curses into the faces of the men.
His body vibrated from the weight and force of his imprecations.
And he could string oaths with the facility of a maiden who strings beads. The friend of the youth aroused.
Lurching suddenly forward and dropping to his knees, he fired an angry shot at the persistent woods.
This action awakened the men.
They huddled no more like sheep.
They seemed suddenly to bethink themselves of their weapons, and at once commenced firing.
Belabored by their officers, they began to move forward.
The regiment, involved like a cart involved in mud and muddle, started unevenly with many jolts and jerks.
The smoke lately generated was in confusing clouds that made it difficult for the regiment to proceed with intelligence.
As he passed through each curling mass the youth wondered what would confront him on the farther side. The command went painfully forward until an open space interposed between them and the lurid lines.
Here, crouching and cowering behind some trees, the men clung with desperation, as if threatened by a wave. They looked wild-eyed, and as if amazed at this furious disturbance they had stirred.
In the storm there was an ironical expression of their importance.
The faces of the men, too, showed a lack of a certain feeling of responsibility for being there.
It was as if they had been driven.
It was the dominant animal failing to remember in the supreme moments the forceful causes of various superficial qualities.
The whole affair seemed incomprehensible to many of them. As they halted thus the lieutenant again began to bellow profanely. Regardless of the vindictive threats of the bullets, he went about coaxing, berating, and bedamning.
His lips, that were habitually in a soft and childlike curve, were now writhed into unholy contortions.
He swore by all possible deities. Once he grabbed the youth by the arm.
Come on, yeh lunkhead!" he roared.
We'll all git killed if we stay here.
We've on'y got t' go across that lot.
An' then"-the remainder of his idea disappeared in a blue haze of curses. The youth stretched forth his arm.
His mouth was puckered in doubt and awe. "Certainly.
We can't stay here," screamed the lieutenant.
He poked his face close to the youth and waved his bandaged hand.
Presently he grappled with him as if for a wrestling bout.
It was as if he planned to drag the youth by the ear on to the assault. The private felt a sudden unspeakable indignation against his officer. He wrenched fiercely and shook him off. "Come on yerself, then," he yelled.
There was a bitter challenge in his voice. They galloped together down the regimental front.
The friend scrambled after them.
In front of the colors the three men began to bawl: "Come on! come on!
They danced and gyrated like tortured savages. The flag, obedient to these appeals, bended its glittering form and swept toward them.
Toward it instantly sprang the yellow tongues.
A vast quantity of blue smoke hung before them.
A mighty banging made ears valueless. The youth ran like a madman to reach the woods before a bullet could discover him.
He ducked his head low, like a football player.
In his haste his eyes almost closed, and the scene was a wild blur.
Pulsating saliva stood at the corners of his mouth. Within him, as he hurled himself forward, was born a love, a despairing fondness for this flag which was near him.
It was a creation of beauty and invulnerability.
It was a goddess, radiant, that bended its form with an imperious gesture to him.
It was a woman, red and white, hating and loving, that called him with the voice of his hopes.
Because no harm could come to it he endowed it with power.
He kept near, as if it could be a saver of lives, and an imploring cry went from his mind. In the mad scramble he was aware that the color sergeant flinched suddenly, as if struck by a bludgeon.
He faltered, and then became motionless, save for his quivering knees.
He made a spring and a clutch at the pole.
At the same instant his friend grabbed it from the other side.
They jerked at it, stout and furious, but the color sergeant was dead, and the corpse would not relinquish its trust.
For a moment there was a grim encounter.
The dead man, swinging with bended back, seemed to be obstinately tugging, in ludicrous and awful ways, for the possession of the flag. It was past in an instant of time.
They wrenched the flag furiously from the dead man, and, as they turned again, the corpse swayed forward with bowed head.
The men, having hurled themselves in projectile fashion, had presently expended their forces.
They slowly retreated, with their faces still toward the spluttering woods, and their hot rifles still replying to the din.
Several officers were giving orders, their voices keyed to screams. "Where in hell yeh goin'?" the lieutenant was asking in a sarcastic howl.
And a red-bearded officer, whose voice of triple brass could plainly be heard, was commanding: "Shoot into 'em!
Shoot into 'em, Gawd damn their souls!
No, let me keep it!
Each felt satisfied with the other's possession of it, but each felt bound to declare, by an offer to carry the emblem, his willingness to further risk himself.
The youth roughly pushed his friend away. The regiment fell back to the stolid trees.
There it halted for a moment to blaze at some dark forms that had begun to steal upon its track.
Presently it resumed its march again, curving among the tree trunks.
By the time the depleted regiment had again reached the first open space they were receiving a fast and merciless fire.
There seemed to be mobs all about them. The greater part of the men, discouraged, their spirits worn by the turmoil, acted as if stunned.
They accepted the pelting of the bullets with bowed and weary heads.
It was of no purpose to strive against walls.
It was of no use to batter themselves against granite.
And from this consciousness that they had attempted to conquer an unconquerable thing there seemed to arise a feeling that they had been betrayed.
They seemed resolved to make every trouble.
The youthful lieutenant was perhaps the last man in the disordered mass. His forgotten back was toward the enemy.
He had been shot in the arm.
It hung straight and rigid.
Occasionally he would cease to remember it, and be about to emphasize an oath with a sweeping gesture.
The multiplied pain caused him to swear with incredible power. The youth went along with slipping uncertain feet.
He kept watchful eyes rearward.
A scowl of mortification and rage was upon his face.
He had thought of a fine revenge upon the officer who had referred to him and his fellows as mule drivers.
But he saw that it could not come to pass.
His dreams had collapsed when the mule drivers, dwindling rapidly, had wavered and hesitated on the little clearing, and then had recoiled.
This cold officer upon a monument, who dropped epithets unconcernedly down, would be finer as a dead man, he thought.
So grievous did he think it that he could never possess the secret right to taunt truly in answer. He had pictured red letters of curious revenge.
We _are_ mule drivers, are we?
And now he was compelled to throw them away. He presently wrapped his heart in the cloak of his pride and kept the flag erect.
He harangued his fellows, pushing against their chests with his free hand.
To those he knew well he made frantic appeals, beseeching them by name.
Between him and the lieutenant, scolding and near to losing his mind with rage, there was felt a subtle fellowship and equality.
They supported each other in all manner of hoarse, howling protests. But the regiment was a machine run down.
The two men babbled at a forceless thing.
The soldiers who had heart to go slowly were continually shaken in their resolves by a knowledge that comrades were slipping with speed back to the lines.
It was difficult to think of reputation when others were thinking of skins.
Wounded men were left crying on this black journey. The smoke fringes and flames blustered always.
The youth, peering once through a sudden rift in a cloud, saw a brown mass of troops, interwoven and magnified until they appeared to be thousands.
A fierce-hued flag flashed before his vision. Immediately, as if the uplifting of the smoke had been prearranged, the discovered troops burst into a rasping yell, and a hundred flames jetted toward the retreating band.
A rolling gray cloud again interposed as the regiment doggedly replied.
In the clouded haze men became panic-stricken with the thought that the regiment had lost its path, and was proceeding in a perilous direction.
Once the men who headed the wild procession turned and came pushing back against their comrades, screaming that they were being fired upon from points which they had considered to be toward their own lines.
At this cry a hysterical fear and dismay beset the troops.
From another a shrill lamentation rang out filled with profane allusions to a general.
Men ran hither and thither, seeking with their eyes roads of escape.
He unconsciously assumed the attitude of the color bearer in the fight of the preceding day.
He passed over his brow a hand that trembled.
His breath did not come freely.
He was choking during this small wait for the crisis. His friend came to him.
The ground was uneven and torn.
The men curled into depressions and fitted themselves snugly behind whatever would frustrate a bullet.
The youth noted with vague surprise that the lieutenant was standing mutely with his legs far apart and his sword held in the manner of a cane.
The youth wondered what had happened to his vocal organs that he no more cursed. There was something curious in this little intent pause of the lieutenant.
He was like a babe which, having wept its fill, raises its eyes and fixes upon a distant toy.
He was engrossed in this contemplation, and the soft under lip quivered from self-whispered words. Some lazy and ignorant smoke curled slowly.
The men, hiding from the bullets, waited anxiously for it to lift and disclose the plight of the regiment. The silent ranks were suddenly thrilled by the eager voice of the youthful lieutenant bawling out: "Here they come!
They were so near that he could see their features.
There was a recognition as he looked at the types of faces.
Also he perceived with dim amazement that their uniforms were rather gay in effect, being light gray, accented with a brilliant-hued facing.
Too, the clothes seemed new. These troops had apparently been going forward with caution, their rifles held in readiness, when the youthful lieutenant had discovered them and their movement had been interrupted by the volley from the blue regiment.
From the moment's glimpse, it was derived that they had been unaware of the proximity of their dark-suited foes or had mistaken the direction.
Almost instantly they were shut utterly from the youth's sight by the smoke from the energetic rifles of his companions.
He strained his vision to learn the accomplishment of the volley, but the smoke hung before him. The two bodies of troops exchanged blows in the manner of a pair of boxers.
The fast angry firings went back and forth.
The men in blue were intent with the despair of their circumstances and they seized upon the revenge to be had at close range.
Their thunder swelled loud and valiant.
Their curving front bristled with flashes and the place resounded with the clangor of their ramrods.
The youth ducked and dodged for a time and achieved a few unsatisfactory views of the enemy. There appeared to be many of them and they were replying swiftly.
They seemed moving toward the blue regiment, step by step.
Fewer bullets ripped the air, and finally, when the men slackened to learn of the fight, they could see only dark, floating smoke.
The regiment lay still and gazed.
Presently some chance whim came to the pestering blur, and it began to coil heavily away.
Their eyes burned and a hoarse cheer of elation broke from their dry lips. It had begun to seem to them that events were trying to prove that they were impotent.
These little battles had evidently endeavored to demonstrate that the men could not fight well.
They gazed about them with looks of uplifted pride, feeling new trust in the grim, always confident weapons in their hands.
And they were men. Chapter XXI. Presently they knew that no firing threatened them.
All ways seemed once more opened to them.
The dusty blue lines of their friends were disclosed a short distance away.
In the distance there were many colossal noises, but in all this part of the field there was a sudden stillness. They perceived that they were free.
The depleted band drew a long breath of relief and gathered itself into a bunch to complete its trip. In this last length of journey the men began to show strange emotions. They hurried with nervous fear.
Some who had been dark and unfaltering in the grimmest moments now could not conceal an anxiety that made them frantic.
It was perhaps that they dreaded to be killed in insignificant ways after the times for proper military deaths had passed.
Or, perhaps, they thought it would be too ironical to get killed at the portals of safety.
With backward looks of perturbation, they hastened. As they approached their own lines there was some sarcasm exhibited on the part of a gaunt and bronzed regiment that lay resting in the shade of the trees.
From under his creased brows he glowered with hate at the mockers.
He meditated upon a few revenges.
Still, many in the regiment hung their heads in criminal fashion, so that it came to pass that the men trudged with sudden heaviness, as if they bore upon their bended shoulders the coffin of their honor.
The stolid trees, where much had taken place, seemed incredibly near.
The time, too, now that he reflected, he saw to have been short.
He had had very little time previously in which to appreciate himself, so that there was now much satisfaction in quietly thinking of his actions.
He recalled bits of color that in the flurry had stamped themselves unawares upon his engaged senses. As the regiment lay heaving from its hot exertions the officer who had named them as mule drivers came galloping along the line.
He had lost his cap.
His tousled hair streamed wildly, and his face was dark with vexation and wrath.
His temper was displayed with more clearness by the way in which he managed his horse.
He jerked and wrenched savagely at his bridle, stopping the hard-breathing animal with a furious pull near the colonel of the regiment.
He immediately exploded in reproaches which came unbidden to the ears of the men.
They were suddenly alert, being always curious about black words between officers. "Oh, thunder, MacChesnay, what an awful bull you made of this thing!" began the officer.
He attempted low tones, but his indignation caused certain of the men to learn the sense of his words.
What an awful mess you made!
Good Lord, man, you stopped about a hundred feet this side of a very pretty success!
They had a ragamuffin interest in this affair. The colonel was seen to straighten his form and put one hand forth in oratorical fashion.
He wore an injured air; it was as if a deacon had been accused of stealing.
The men were wiggling in an ecstasy of excitement. But of a sudden the colonel's manner changed from that of a deacon to that of a Frenchman.
Oh, well, general, we went as far as we could," he said calmly. "As far as you could?
Did you, b'Gawd?" snorted the other.
Well, that wasn't very far, was it?" he added, with a glance of cold contempt into the other's eyes.
Not very far, I think.
You were intended to make a diversion in favor of Whiterside.
How well you succeeded your own ears can now tell you.
All right, colonel, all right," he said.
He sat down with an air of being content with himself. The news that the regiment had been reproached went along the line.
For a time the men were bewildered by it.
Good thunder!" they ejaculated, staring at the vanishing form of the general.
They conceived it to be a huge mistake. Presently, however, they began to believe that in truth their efforts had been called light.
The youth could see this conviction weigh upon the entire regiment until the men were like cuffed and cursed animals, but withal rebellious. The friend, with a grievance in his eye, went to the youth.
I wonder what he does want," he said.
He must think we went out there an' played marbles!
I never see sech a man!" The youth developed a tranquil philosophy for these moments of irritation.
Oh, well," he rejoined, "he probably didn't see nothing of it at all and got mad as blazes, and concluded we were a lot of sheep, just because we didn't do what he wanted done.
It's a pity old Grandpa Henderson got killed yestirday-he'd have known that we did our best and fought good.
It's just our awful luck, that's what." "I should say so," replied the friend.
He seemed to be deeply wounded at an injustice.
I should say we did have awful luck!
There's no fun in fightin' fer people when everything yeh do-no matter what-ain't done right.
I have a notion t' stay behind next time an' let 'em take their ol' charge an' go t' th' devil with it." The youth spoke soothingly to his comrade.
Well, we both did good.
I'd like to see the fool what'd say we both didn't do as good as we could!" "Of course we did," declared the friend stoutly.
An' I'd break th' feller's neck if he was as big as a church.
But we're all right, anyhow, for I heard one feller say that we two fit th' best in th' reg'ment, an' they had a great argument 'bout it.
Another feller, 'a course, he had t' up an' say it was a lie-he seen all what was goin' on an' he never seen us from th' beginnin' t' th' end.
An' a lot more stuck in an' ses it wasn't a lie-we did fight like thunder, an' they give us quite a sendoff.
But this is what I can't stand-these everlastin' ol' soldiers, titterin' an' laughin', an then that general, he's crazy." The youth exclaimed with sudden exasperation: "He's a lunkhead!
I wish he'd come along next time.
We'd show 'im what-" He ceased because several men had come hurrying up.
Their faces expressed a bringing of great news. "O Flem, yeh jest oughta heard!" cried one, eagerly. "Heard what?" said the youth. "Yeh jest oughta heard!" repeated the other, and he arranged himself to tell his tidings.
The others made an excited circle.
Well, sir, th' colonel met your lieutenant right by us-it was damnedest thing I ever heard-an' he ses: 'Ahem! ahem!' he ses.
Mr. Hasbrouck!' he ses, 'by th' way, who was that lad what carried th' flag?' he ses.
There, Flemin', what d' yeh think 'a that?
Who was th' lad what carried th' flag?' he ses, an' th' lieutenant, he speaks up right away: 'That's Flemin', an' he's a jimhickey,' he ses, right away.
I say he did. 'A jimhickey,' he ses-those 'r his words.
If you kin tell this story better than I kin, go ahead an' tell it.
Well, then, keep yer mouth shet.
Th' lieutenant, he ses: 'He's a jimhickey,' and th' colonel, he ses: 'Ahem! ahem! he is, indeed, a very good man t' have, ahem!
He kep' th' flag 'way t' th' front.
He's a good un,' ses th' colonel.
You bet,' ses th' lieutenant, 'he an' a feller named Wilson was at th' head 'a th' charge, an' howlin' like Indians all th' time,' he ses.
Head 'a th' charge all th' time,' he ses.
A feller named Wilson,' he ses.
There, Wilson, m'boy, put that in a letter an' send it hum t' yer mother, hay?
An' th' colonel, he ses: 'Were they, indeed?
At th' head 'a th' reg'ment?' he ses.
They were,' ses th' lieutenant.
My sakes!' ses th' colonel.
He ses: 'Well, well, well,' he ses.
They deserve t' be major-generals.'" The youth and his friend had said: "Huh!
But despite these youthful scoffings and embarrassments, they knew that their faces were deeply flushing from thrills of pleasure.
They exchanged a secret glance of joy and congratulation. They speedily forgot many things.
The past held no pictures of error and disappointment.
They were very happy, and their hearts swelled with grateful affection for the colonel and the youthful lieutenant. Chapter XXII. When the woods again began to pour forth the dark-hued masses of the enemy the youth felt serene self-confidence.
He smiled briefly when he saw men dodge and duck at the long screechings of shells that were thrown in giant handfuls over them.
He stood, erect and tranquil, watching the attack begin against a part of the line that made a blue curve along the side of an adjacent hill.
His vision being unmolested by smoke from the rifles of his companions, he had opportunities to see parts of the hard fight.
It was a relief to perceive at last from whence came some of these noises which had been roared into his ears. Off a short way he saw two regiments fighting a little separate battle with two other regiments.
It was in a cleared space, wearing a set-apart look.
They were blazing as if upon a wager, giving and taking tremendous blows.
The firings were incredibly fierce and rapid.
They passed in out of sight and presently there was a most awe-inspiring racket in the wood.
Having stirred this prodigious uproar, and, apparently, finding it too prodigious, the brigade, after a little time, came marching airily out again with its fine formation in nowise disturbed.
There were no traces of speed in its movements.
The round red discharges from the guns made a crimson flare and a high, thick smoke.
Occasional glimpses could be caught of groups of the toiling artillerymen.
In the rear of this row of guns stood a house, calm and white, amid bursting shells.
A congregation of horses, tied to a long railing, were tugging frenziedly at their bridles.
Men were running hither and thither. The detached battle between the four regiments lasted for some time. There chanced to be no interference, and they settled their dispute by themselves.
They struck savagely and powerfully at each other for a period of minutes, and then the lighter-hued regiments faltered and drew back, leaving the dark-blue lines shouting.
The youth could see the two flags shaking with laughter amid the smoke remnants. Presently there was a stillness, pregnant with meaning.
The blue lines shifted and changed a trifle and stared expectantly at the silent woods and fields before them.
The hush was solemn and churchlike, save for a distant battery that, evidently unable to remain quiet, sent a faint rolling thunder over the ground.
It irritated, like the noises of unimpressed boys.
The men imagined that it would prevent their perched ears from hearing the first words of the new battle. Of a sudden the guns on the slope roared out a message of warning.
A spluttering sound had begun in the woods.
It swelled with amazing speed to a profound clamor that involved the earth in noises.
The splitting crashes swept along the lines until an interminable roar was developed. To those in the midst of it it became a din fitted to the universe.
It was the whirring and thumping of gigantic machinery, complications among the smaller stars.
The youth's ears were filled cups.
They were incapable of hearing more. On an incline over which a road wound he saw wild and desperate rushes of men perpetually backward and forward in riotous surges.
These parts of the opposing armies were two long waves that pitched upon each other madly at dictated points.
To and fro they swelled.
Sometimes, one side by its yells and cheers would proclaim decisive blows, but a moment later the other side would be all yells and cheers.
Once the youth saw a spray of light forms go in houndlike leaps toward the waving blue lines.
There was much howling, and presently it went away with a vast mouthful of prisoners.
Again, he saw a blue wave dash with such thunderous force against a gray obstruction that it seemed to clear the earth of it and leave nothing but trampled sod.
And always in their swift and deadly rushes to and fro the men screamed and yelled like maniacs. Particular pieces of fence or secure positions behind collections of trees were wrangled over, as gold thrones or pearl bedsteads.
There were desperate lunges at these chosen spots seemingly every instant, and most of them were bandied like light toys between the contending forces.
The youth could not tell from the battle flags flying like crimson foam in many directions which color of cloth was winning. His emaciated regiment bustled forth with undiminished fierceness when its time came.
When assaulted again by bullets, the men burst out in a barbaric cry of rage and pain.
They bent their heads in aims of intent hatred behind the projected hammers of their guns.
Their ramrods clanged loud with fury as their eager arms pounded the cartridges into the rifle barrels.
The front of the regiment was a smoke-wall penetrated by the flashing points of yellow and red. Wallowing in the fight, they were in an astonishingly short time resmudged.
They surpassed in stain and dirt all their previous appearances.
The crash and swing of the great drama made him lean forward, intent-eyed, his face working in small contortions.
Sometimes he prattled, words coming unconsciously from him in grotesque exclamations.
He did not know that he breathed; that the flag hung silently over him, so absorbed was he. A formidable line of the enemy came within dangerous range.
They slid down behind it with remarkable celerity, and from this position they began briskly to slice up the blue men. These latter braced their energies for a great struggle.
Often, white clinched teeth shone from the dusky faces.
Many heads surged to and fro, floating upon a pale sea of smoke.
Those behind the fence frequently shouted and yelped in taunts and gibelike cries, but the regiment maintained a stressed silence.
Perhaps, at this new assault the men recalled the fact that they had been named mud diggers, and it made their situation thrice bitter.
They were breathlessly intent upon keeping the ground and thrusting away the rejoicing body of the enemy. They fought swiftly and with a despairing savageness denoted in their expressions. The youth had resolved not to budge whatever should happen.
Some arrows of scorn that had buried themselves in his heart had generated strange and unspeakable hatred.
It was clear to him that his final and absolute revenge was to be achieved by his dead body lying, torn and gluttering, upon the field.
And it was his idea, vaguely formulated, that his corpse would be for those eyes a great and salt reproach. The regiment bled extravagantly.
Grunting bundles of blue began to drop.
The orderly sergeant of the youth's company was shot through the cheeks.
Its supports being injured, his jaw hung afar down, disclosing in the wide cavern of his mouth a pulsing mass of blood and teeth.
And with it all he made attempts to cry out.
In his endeavor there was a dreadful earnestness, as if he conceived that one great shriek would make him well. The youth saw him presently go rearward.
His strength seemed in nowise impaired.
He ran swiftly, casting wild glances for succor. Others fell down about the feet of their companions.
Some of the wounded crawled out and away, but many lay still, their bodies twisted into impossible shapes. The youth looked once for his friend.
He saw a vehement young man, powder-smeared and frowzled, whom he knew to be him.
The lieutenant, also, was unscathed in his position at the rear.
He had continued to curse, but it was now with the air of a man who was using his last box of oaths. For the fire of the regiment had begun to wane and drip.
The robust voice, that had come strangely from the thin ranks, was growing rapidly weak. Chapter XXIII. The colonel came running along the back of the line.
There were other officers following him.
We must charge 'm!" they shouted.
We must charge 'm!" they cried with resentful voices, as if anticipating a rebellion against this plan by the men. The youth, upon hearing the shouts, began to study the distance between him and the enemy.
He saw that to be firm soldiers they must go forward.
It would be death to stay in the present place, and with all the circumstances to go backward would exalt too many others.
There was an ominous, clanging overture to the charge when the shafts of the bayonets rattled upon the rifle barrels. At the yelled words of command the soldiers sprang forward in eager leaps.
There was new and unexpected force in the movement of the regiment.
A knowledge of its faded and jaded condition made the charge appear like a paroxysm, a display of the strength that comes before a final feebleness.
The men scampered in insane fever of haste, racing as if to achieve a sudden success before an exhilarating fluid should leave them.
But they were in a state of frenzy, perhaps because of forgotten vanities, and it made an exhibition of sublime recklessness.
There was no obvious questioning, nor figurings, nor diagrams.
There was, apparently, no considered loopholes.
It appeared that the swift wings of their desires would have shattered against the iron gates of the impossible. He himself felt the daring spirit of a savage, religion-mad.
He was capable of profound sacrifices, a tremendous death.
He had no time for dissections, but he knew that he thought of the bullets only as things that could prevent him from reaching the place of his endeavor.
There were subtle flashings of joy within him that thus should be his mind. He strained all his strength.
His eyesight was shaken and dazzled by the tension of thought and muscle.
He expected a great concussion when the two bodies of troops crashed together.
This became a part of his wild battle madness.
He could feel the onward swing of the regiment about him and he conceived of a thunderous, crushing blow that would prostrate the resistance and spread consternation and amazement for miles.
The flying regiment was going to have a catapultian effect.
This dream made him run faster among his comrades, who were giving vent to hoarse and frantic cheers. But presently he could see that many of the men in gray did not intend to abide the blow.
The smoke, rolling, disclosed men who ran, their faces still turned.
These grew to a crowd, who retired stubbornly. Individuals wheeled frequently to send a bullet at the blue wave. But at one part of the line there was a grim and obdurate group that made no movement.
There was an expressed disdain in the opposition of the little group, that changed the meaning of the cheers of the men in blue.
They became yells of wrath, directed, personal.
The cries of the two parties were now in sound an interchange of scathing insults. They in blue showed their teeth; their eyes shone all white.
They launched themselves as at the throats of those who stood resisting.
The space between dwindled to an insignificant distance. The youth had centered the gaze of his soul upon that other flag.
Its possession would be high pride.
It would express bloody minglings, near blows.
He had a gigantic hatred for those who made great difficulties and complications.
They caused it to be as a craved treasure of mythology, hung amid tasks and contrivances of danger. He plunged like a mad horse at it.
He was resolved it should not escape if wild blows and darings of blows could seize it.
His own emblem, quivering and aflare, was winging toward the other.
It seemed there would shortly be an encounter of strange beaks and claws, as of eagles. The swirling body of blue men came to a sudden halt at close and disastrous range and roared a swift volley.
The group in gray was split and broken by this fire, but its riddled body still fought.
He perceived this man fighting a last struggle, the struggle of one whose legs are grasped by demons.
It was a ghastly battle.
Over his face was the bleach of death, but set upon it was the dark and hard lines of desperate purpose.
Those in advance of the scampering blue men, howling cheers, leaped at the fence.
The despair of the lost was in his eyes as he glanced back at them. The youth's friend went over the obstruction in a tumbling heap and sprang at the flag as a panther at prey.
There was much blood upon the grass blades. At the place of success there began more wild clamorings of cheers.
The men gesticulated and bellowed in an ecstasy.
When they spoke it was as if they considered their listener to be a mile away.
What hats and caps were left to them they often slung high in the air. At one part of the line four men had been swooped upon, and they now sat as prisoners.
Some blue men were about them in an eager and curious circle.
The soldiers had trapped strange birds, and there was an examination.
A flurry of fast questions was in the air. One of the prisoners was nursing a superficial wound in the foot.
He cuddled it, baby-wise, but he looked up from it often to curse with an astonishing utter abandon straight at the noses of his captors.
He consigned them to red regions; he called upon the pestilential wrath of strange gods.
And with it all he was singularly free from recognition of the finer points of the conduct of prisoners of war.
He conversed with the men in blue, studying their faces with his bright and keen eyes.
They spoke of battles and conditions.
There was an acute interest in all their faces during this exchange of view points.
It seemed a great satisfaction to hear voices from where all had been darkness and speculation. The third captive sat with a morose countenance.
He preserved a stoical and cold attitude.
To all advances he made one reply without variation, "Ah, go t' hell!" The last of the four was always silent and, for the most part, kept his face turned in unmolested directions.
From the views the youth received he seemed to be in a state of absolute dejection.
Shame was upon him, and with it profound regret that he was, perhaps, no more to be counted in the ranks of his fellows.
The youth could detect no expression that would allow him to believe that the other was giving a thought to his narrowed future, the pictured dungeons, perhaps, and starvations and brutalities, liable to the imagination.
A few shot perfunctorily at distant marks. There was some long grass.
The youth nestled in it and rested, making a convenient rail support the flag.
His friend, jubilant and glorified, holding his treasure with vanity, came to him there.
They sat side by side and congratulated each other. Chapter XXIV. The roarings that had stretched in a long line of sound across the face of the forest began to grow intermittent and weaker.
The stentorian speeches of the artillery continued in some distant encounter, but the crashes of the musketry had almost ceased.
The youth and his friend of a sudden looked up, feeling a deadened form of distress at the waning of these noises, which had become a part of life.
They could see changes going on among the troops.
There were marchings this way and that way.
On the crest of a small hill was the thick gleam of many departing muskets. The youth arose.
Well, what now, I wonder?" he said.
By his tone he seemed to be preparing to resent some new monstrosity in the way of dins and smashes.
He shaded his eyes with his grimy hand and gazed over the field. His friend also arose and stared.
I bet we're goin' t' git along out of this an' back over th' river," said he. "Well, I swan!" said the youth. They waited, watching.
Within a little while the regiment received orders to retrace its way.
The men got up grunting from the grass, regretting the soft repose.
They jerked their stiffened legs, and stretched their arms over their heads.
One man swore as he rubbed his eyes.
They all groaned "O Lord!
The reformed brigade, in column, aimed through a wood at the road.
A row of guns were booming at a distant enemy.
Shells thrown in reply were raising clouds of dust and splinters.
Horsemen dashed along the line of intrenchments. At this point of its march the division curved away from the field and went winding off in the direction of the river.
He breathed a breath of new satisfaction.
He finally nudged his friend.
Well, it's all over," he said to him. His friend gazed backward.
B'Gawd, it is," he assented.
They mused. For a time the youth was obliged to reflect in a puzzled and uncertain way.
His mind was undergoing a subtle change.
It took moments for it to cast off its battleful ways and resume its accustomed course of thought.
Gradually his brain emerged from the clogged clouds, and at last he was enabled to more closely comprehend himself and circumstance. He understood then that the existence of shot and countershot was in the past.
He had dwelt in a land of strange, squalling upheavals and had come forth.
He had been where there was red of blood and black of passion, and he was escaped.
Those performances which had been witnessed by his fellows marched now in wide purple and gold, having various deflections.
They went gayly with music.
It was pleasure to watch these things.
He spent delightful minutes viewing the gilded images of memory. He saw that he was good.
He recalled with a thrill of joy the respectful comments of his fellows upon his conduct. Nevertheless, the ghost of his flight from the first engagement appeared to him and danced.
There were small shoutings in his brain about these matters.
For a moment he blushed, and the light of his soul flickered with shame. A specter of reproach came to him.
As he stood persistently before his vision, he gave vent to a cry of sharp irritation and agony. His friend turned.
What's the matter, Henry?" he demanded.
The youth's reply was an outburst of crimson oaths. As he marched along the little branch-hung roadway among his prattling companions this vision of cruelty brooded over him.
It clung near him always and darkened his view of these deeds in purple and gold. Whichever way his thoughts turned they were followed by the somber phantom of the desertion in the fields.
He looked stealthily at his companions, feeling sure that they must discern in his face evidences of this pursuit.
But they were plodding in ragged array, discussing with quick tongues the accomplishments of the late battle. "Oh, if a man should come up an' ask me, I'd say we got a dum good lickin'." "Lickin'-in yer eye!
We're goin' down here aways, swing aroun', an' come in behint 'em." "Oh, hush, with your comin' in behint 'em.
I've seen all 'a that I wanta.
Don't tell me about comin' in behint-" "Bill Smithers, he ses he'd rather been in ten hundred battles than been in that heluva hospital.
He ses they got shootin' in th' nighttime, an' shells dropped plum among 'em in th' hospital.
He ses sech hollerin' he never see." "Hasbrouck?
He's th' best off'cer in this here reg'ment.
He's a whale." "Didn't I tell yeh we'd come aroun' in behint 'em?
Didn't I tell yeh so?
We-" "Oh, shet yeh mouth!" For a time this pursuing recollection of the tattered man took all elation from the youth's veins.
He saw his vivid error, and he was afraid that it would stand before him all his life.
And at last his eyes seemed to open to some new ways.
He found that he could look back upon the brass and bombast of his earlier gospels and see them truly.
He was gleeful when he discovered that he now despised them. With this conviction came a store of assurance.
He felt a quiet manhood, nonassertive but of sturdy and strong blood.
He knew that he would no more quail before his guides wherever they should point.
He had been to touch the great death, and found that, after all, it was but the great death.
He was a man. So it came to pass that as he trudged from the place of blood and wrath his soul changed.
He came from hot plowshares to prospects of clover tranquilly, and it was as if hot plowshares were not.
Scars faded as flowers. It rained.
The procession of weary soldiers became a bedraggled train, despondent and muttering, marching with churning effort in a trough of liquid brown mud under a low, wretched sky.
Yet the youth smiled, for he saw that the world was a world for him, though many discovered it to be made of oaths and walking sticks.
He had rid himself of the red sickness of battle.
The sultry nightmare was in the past.
He had been an animal blistered and sweating in the heat and pain of war.
He turned now with a lover's thirst to images of tranquil skies, fresh meadows, cool brooks-an existence of soft and eternal peace. Over the river a golden ray of sun came through the hosts of leaden rain clouds. THE END.
THE ADVENTURES OF TOM SAWYER By Mark Twain (Samuel Langhorne Clemens) CONTENTS CHAPTER I.
Y-o-u-u Tom-Aunt Polly Decides Upon her Duty-Tom Practices Music-The Challenge-A Private Entrance CHAPTER II.
Strong Temptations-Strategic Movements-The Innocents Beguiled CHAPTER III.
Tom as a General-Triumph and Reward-Dismal Felicity-Commission and Omission CHAPTER IV.
Mental Acrobatics-Attending Sunday-School-The Superintendent-"Showing off"-Tom Lionized CHAPTER V.
A Useful Minister-In Church-The Climax CHAPTER VI.
Self-Examination-Dentistry-The Midnight Charm-Witches and Devils-Cautious Approaches-Happy Hours CHAPTER VII.
A Treaty Entered Into-Early Lessons-A Mistake Made CHAPTER VIII.
Tom Decides on his Course-Old Scenes Re-enacted CHAPTER IX.
A Solemn Situation-Grave Subjects Introduced-Injun Joe Explains CHAPTER X.
The Solemn Oath-Terror Brings Repentance-Mental Punishment CHAPTER XI.
Muff Potter Comes Himself-Tom's Conscience at Work CHAPTER XII.
Tom Shows his Generosity-Aunt Polly Weakens CHAPTER XIII.
The Young Pirates-Going to the Rendezvous-The Camp-Fire Talk CHAPTER XIV.
Camp-Life-A Sensation-Tom Steals Away from Camp CHAPTER XV.
Tom Reconnoiters-Learns the Situation-Reports at Camp CHAPTER XVI.
A Day's Amusements-Tom Reveals a Secret-The Pirates take a Lesson-A Night Surprise-An Indian War CHAPTER XVII.
Memories of the Lost Heroes-The Point in Tom's Secret CHAPTER XVIII.
Tom's Feelings Investigated-Wonderful Dream-Becky Thatcher Overshadowed-Tom Becomes Jealous-Black Revenge CHAPTER XIX.
Tom Tells the Truth CHAPTER XX.
Becky in a Dilemma-Tom's Nobility Asserts Itself CHAPTER XXI.
Youthful Eloquence-Compositions by the Young Ladies-A Lengthy Vision-The Boy's Vengeance Satisfied CHAPTER XXII.
Tom's Confidence Betrayed-Expects Signal Punishment CHAPTER XXIII.
Old Muff's Friends-Muff Potter in Court-Muff Potter Saved CHAPTER XXIV.
Tom as the Village Hero-Days of Splendor and Nights of Horror-Pursuit of Injun Joe CHAPTER XXV.
About Kings and Diamonds-Search for the Treasure-Dead People and Ghosts CHAPTER XXVI.
The Haunted House-Sleepy Ghosts-A Box of Gold-Bitter Luck CHAPTER XXVII.
Doubts to be Settled-The Young Detectives CHAPTER XXVIII.
An Attempt at No. Two-Huck Mounts Guard CHAPTER XXIX.
The Pic-nic-Huck on Injun Joe's Track-The "Revenge" Job-Aid for the Widow CHAPTER XXX.
The Welshman Reports-Huck Under Fire-The Story Circulated -A New Sensation-Hope Giving Way to Despair CHAPTER XXXI.
An Exploring Expedition-Trouble Commences-Lost in the Cave-Total Darkness-Found but not Saved CHAPTER XXXII.
Tom tells the Story of their Escape-Tom's Enemy in Safe Quarters CHAPTER XXXIII.
The Fate of Injun Joe-Huck and Tom Compare Notes -An Expedition to the Cave-Protection Against Ghosts-"An Awful Snug Place"-A Reception at the Widow Douglas's CHAPTER XXXIV.
Springing a Secret-Mr. Jones' Surprise a Failure CHAPTER XXXV.
You TOM!" No answer. The old lady pulled her spectacles down and looked over them about the room; then she put them up and looked out under them.
She resurrected nothing but the cat. "I never did see the beat of that boy!" She went to the open door and stood in it and looked out among the tomato vines and "jimpson" weeds that constituted the garden.
I might 'a' thought of that closet.
What you been doing in there?" "Nothing." "Nothing!
And look at your mouth.
What _is_ that truck?" "I don't know, aunt." "Well, I know.
It's jam-that's what it is.
Forty times I've said if you didn't let that jam alone I'd skin you.
Hand me that switch." The switch hovered in the air-the peril was desperate- "My!
Ain't he played me tricks enough like that for me to be looking out for him by this time?
But old fools is the biggest fools there is.
Can't learn an old dog new tricks, as the saying is.
But my goodness, he never plays them alike, two days, and how is a body to know what's coming?
I ain't doing my duty by that boy, and that's the Lord's truth, goodness knows.
Spare the rod and spile the child, as the Good Book says.
I'm a laying up sin and suffering for us both, I know.
He's full of the Old Scratch, but laws-a-me! he's my own dead sister's boy, poor thing, and I ain't got the heart to lash him, somehow.
Every time I let him off, my conscience does hurt me so, and every time I hit him my old heart most breaks.
Well-a-well, man that is born of woman is of few days and full of trouble, as the Scripture says, and I reckon it's so.
He'll play hookey this evening,[*] and I'll just be obleeged to make him work, tomorrow, to punish him.
Like many other simple-hearted souls, it was her pet vanity to believe she was endowed with a talent for dark and mysterious diplomacy, and she loved to contemplate her most transparent devices as marvels of low cunning.
Said she: "Tom, it was middling warm in school, warn't it?" "Yes'm." "Powerful warm, warn't it?" "Yes'm." "Didn't you want to go in a-swimming, Tom?" A bit of a scare shot through Tom-a touch of uncomfortable suspicion.
He searched Aunt Polly's face, but it told him nothing.
So he said: "No'm-well, not very much." The old lady reached out her hand and felt Tom's shirt, and said: "But you ain't too warm now, though.
And it flattered her to reflect that she had discovered that the shirt was dry without anybody knowing that that was what she had in her mind.
But in spite of her, Tom knew where the wind lay, now.
So he forestalled what might be the next move: "Some of us pumped on our heads-mine's damp yet.
See?" Aunt Polly was vexed to think she had overlooked that bit of circumstantial evidence, and missed a trick.
Then she had a new inspiration: "Tom, you didn't have to undo your shirt collar where I sewed it, to pump on your head, did you?
Unbutton your jacket!" The trouble vanished out of Tom's face.
His shirt collar was securely sewed. "Bother!
Well, go 'long with you.
I'd made sure you'd played hookey and been a-swimming.
But I forgive ye, Tom.
Tom!" But Tom did not wait for the rest.
He said: "She'd never noticed if it hadn't been for Sid.
Confound it! sometimes she sews it with white, and sometimes she sews it with black.
I wish to gee-miny she'd stick to one or t'other-I can't keep the run of 'em.
But I bet you I'll lam Sid for that.
I'll learn him!" He was not the Model Boy of the village.
He knew the model boy very well though-and loathed him. Within two minutes, or even less, he had forgotten all his troubles.
This new interest was a valued novelty in whistling, which he had just acquired from a negro, and he was suffering to practise it undisturbed.
Diligence and attention soon gave him the knack of it, and he strode down the street with his mouth full of harmony and his soul full of gratitude.
He felt much as an astronomer feels who has discovered a new planet-no doubt, as far as strong, deep, unalloyed pleasure is concerned, the advantage was with the boy, not the astronomer. The summer evenings were long.
It was not dark, yet.
Presently Tom checked his whistle.
A stranger was before him-a boy a shade larger than himself.
A new-comer of any age or either sex was an impressive curiosity in the poor little shabby village of St. Petersburg.
This boy was well dressed, too-well dressed on a week-day.
His cap was a dainty thing, his close-buttoned blue cloth roundabout was new and natty, and so were his pantaloons.
He had shoes on-and it was only Friday.
He even wore a necktie, a bright bit of ribbon.
He had a citified air about him that ate into Tom's vitals.
The more Tom stared at the splendid marvel, the higher he turned up his nose at his finery and the shabbier and shabbier his own outfit seemed to him to grow.
If one moved, the other moved-but only sidewise, in a circle; they kept face to face and eye to eye all the time.
Finally Tom said: "I can lick you!" "I'd like to see you try it." "Well, I can do it." "No you can't, either." "Yes I can." "No you can't." "I can." "You can't." "Can!" "Can't!" An uncomfortable pause.
Then Tom said: "What's your name?" "'Tisn't any of your business, maybe." "Well I 'low I'll _make_ it my business." "Well why don't you?" "If you say much, I will." "Much-much-_much_.
There now." "Oh, you think you're mighty smart, _don't_ you?
I could lick you with one hand tied behind me, if I wanted to." "Well why don't you _do_ it?
You _say_ you can do it." "Well I _will_, if you fool with me." "Oh yes-I've seen whole families in the same fix." "Smarty!
You think you're _some_, now, _don't_ you?
Oh, what a hat!" "You can lump that hat if you don't like it.
What do you keep _saying_ you will for?
Why don't you _do_ it?
It's because you're afraid." "I _ain't_ afraid." "You are." "I ain't." "You are." Another pause, and more eying and sidling around each other.
Presently they were shoulder to shoulder.
But neither could get an advantage.
After struggling till both were hot and flushed, each relaxed his strain with watchful caution, and Tom said: "You're a coward and a pup.
I'll tell my big brother on you, and he can thrash you with his little finger, and I'll make him do it, too." "What do I care for your big brother?
Tom struck them to the ground.
Presently the confusion took form, and through the fog of battle Tom appeared, seated astride the new boy, and pounding him with his fists.
Holler 'nuff!" said he. The boy only struggled to free himself.
He was crying-mainly from rage. "Holler 'nuff!"-and the pounding went on. At last the stranger got out a smothered "'Nuff!" and Tom let him up and said: "Now that'll learn you.
Tom chased the traitor home, and thus found out where he lived.
He then held a position at the gate for some time, daring the enemy to come outside, but the enemy only made faces at him through the window and declined.
At last the enemy's mother appeared, and called Tom a bad, vicious, vulgar child, and ordered him away.
There was a song in every heart; and if the heart was young the music issued at the lips.
There was cheer in every face and a spring in every step.
The locust-trees were in bloom and the fragrance of the blossoms filled the air.
He surveyed the fence, and all gladness left him and a deep melancholy settled down upon his spirit.
Thirty yards of board fence nine feet high.
Life to him seemed hollow, and existence but a burden.
Sighing, he dipped his brush and passed it along the topmost plank; repeated the operation; did it again; compared the insignificant whitewashed streak with the far-reaching continent of unwhitewashed fence, and sat down on a tree-box discouraged.
Jim came skipping out at the gate with a tin pail, and singing Buffalo Gals.
Bringing water from the town pump had always been hateful work in Tom's eyes, before, but now it did not strike him so.
He remembered that there was company at the pump.
White, mulatto, and negro boys and girls were always there waiting their turns, resting, trading playthings, quarrelling, fighting, skylarking.
And he remembered that although the pump was only a hundred and fifty yards off, Jim never got back with a bucket of water under an hour-and even then somebody generally had to go after him.
Tom said: "Say, Jim, I'll fetch the water if you'll whitewash some." Jim shook his head and said: "Can't, Mars Tom.
Ole missis, she tole me I got to go an' git dis water an' not stop foolin' roun' wid anybody.
She say she spec' Mars Tom gwine to ax me to whitewash, an' so she tole me go 'long an' 'tend to my own business-she 'lowed _she'd_ 'tend to de whitewashin'." "Oh, never you mind what she said, Jim.
That's the way she always talks. Gimme the bucket-I won't be gone only a a minute. _She_ won't ever know." "Oh, I dasn't, Mars Tom.
Ole missis she'd take an' tar de head off'n me. 'Deed she would." "_She_!
She never licks anybody-whacks 'em over the head with her thimble-and who cares for that, I'd like to know.
She talks awful, but talk don't hurt-anyways it don't if she don't cry.
Jim, I'll give you a marvel.
I'll give you a white alley!" Jim began to waver. "White alley, Jim!
And it's a bully taw." "My!
Dat's a mighty gay marvel, I tell you!
But Mars Tom I's powerful 'fraid ole missis-" "And besides, if you will I'll show you my sore toe." Jim was only human-this attraction was too much for him.
He put down his pail, took the white alley, and bent over the toe with absorbing interest while the bandage was being unwound.
He began to think of the fun he had planned for this day, and his sorrows multiplied.
Soon the free boys would come tripping along on all sorts of delicious expeditions, and they would make a world of fun of him for having to work-the very thought of it burnt him like fire.
He got out his worldly wealth and examined it-bits of toys, marbles, and trash; enough to buy an exchange of _work_, maybe, but not half enough to buy so much as half an hour of pure freedom.
So he returned his straitened means to his pocket, and gave up the idea of trying to buy the boys.
At this dark and hopeless moment an inspiration burst upon him!
Nothing less than a great, magnificent inspiration. He took up his brush and went tranquilly to work.
Ben Rogers hove in sight presently-the very boy, of all boys, whose ridicule he had been dreading.
Ben's gait was the hop-skip-and-jump-proof enough that his heart was light and his anticipations high.
He was eating an apple, and giving a long, melodious whoop, at intervals, followed by a deep-toned ding-dong-dong, ding-dong-dong, for he was personating a steamboat.
He was boat and captain and engine-bells combined, so he had to imagine himself standing on his own hurricane-deck giving the orders and executing them: "Stop her, sir!
The headway ran almost out, and he drew up slowly toward the sidewalk. "Ship up to back!
His arms straightened and stiffened down his sides. "Set her back on the stabboard!
His right hand, mean-time, describing stately circles-for it was representing a forty-foot wheel. "Let her go back on the labboard!
Chow-ch-chow-chow!" The left hand began to describe circles. "Stop the stabboard!
Come ahead on the stabboard!
Let your outside turn over slow! Ting-a-ling-ling!
Get out that head-line! _lively_ now! Come-out with your spring-line-what're you about there!
Take a turn round that stump with the bight of it!
Stand by that stage, now-let her go!
Done with the engines, sir!
SH'T!" (trying the gauge-cocks). Tom went on whitewashing-paid no attention to the steamboat.
Ben stared a moment and then said: "_Hi-Yi!
You're_ up a stump, ain't you!" No answer.
Tom surveyed his last touch with the eye of an artist, then he gave his brush another gentle sweep and surveyed the result, as before.
Ben ranged up alongside of him.
Tom's mouth watered for the apple, but he stuck to his work.
Ben said: "Hello, old chap, you got to work, hey?" Tom wheeled suddenly and said: "Why, it's you, Ben!
I warn't noticing." "Say-I'm going in a-swimming, I am. Don't you wish you could?
But of course you'd druther _work_-wouldn't you?
Course you would!" Tom contemplated the boy a bit, and said: "What do you call work?" "Why, ain't _that_ work?" Tom resumed his whitewashing, and answered carelessly: "Well, maybe it is, and maybe it ain't.
All I know, is, it suits Tom Sawyer." "Oh come, now, you don't mean to let on that you _like_ it?" The brush continued to move. "Like it?
Well, I don't see why I oughtn't to like it.
Does a boy get a chance to whitewash a fence every day?" That put the thing in a new light.
Ben stopped nibbling his apple. Tom swept his brush daintily back and forth-stepped back to note the effect-added a touch here and there-criticised the effect again-Ben watching every move and getting more and more interested, more and more absorbed.
Presently he said: "Say, Tom, let _me_ whitewash a little." Tom considered, was about to consent; but he altered his mind: "No-no-I reckon it wouldn't hardly do, Ben.
You see, Aunt Polly's awful particular about this fence-right here on the street, you know-but if it was the back fence I wouldn't mind and _she_ wouldn't.
Yes, she's awful particular about this fence; it's got to be done very careful; I reckon there ain't one boy in a thousand, maybe two thousand, that can do it the way it's got to be done." "No-is that so?
Oh come, now-lemme just try.
Only just a little-I'd let _you_, if you was me, Tom." "Ben, I'd like to, honest injun; but Aunt Polly-well, Jim wanted to do it, but she wouldn't let him; Sid wanted to do it, and she wouldn't let Sid.
Now don't you see how I'm fixed?
If you was to tackle this fence and anything was to happen to it-" "Oh, shucks, I'll be just as careful.
Say-I'll give you the core of my apple." "Well, here-No, Ben, now don't.
I'm afeard-" "I'll give you _all_ of it!" Tom gave up the brush with reluctance in his face, but alacrity in his heart.
And while the late steamer Big Missouri worked and sweated in the sun, the retired artist sat on a barrel in the shade close by, dangled his legs, munched his apple, and planned the slaughter of more innocents.
There was no lack of material; boys happened along every little while; they came to jeer, but remained to whitewash.
And when the middle of the afternoon came, from being a poor poverty-stricken boy in the morning, Tom was literally rolling in wealth.
If he hadn't run out of whitewash he would have bankrupted every boy in the village. Tom said to himself that it was not such a hollow world, after all.
He had discovered a great law of human action, without knowing it-namely, that in order to make a man or a boy covet a thing, it is only necessary to make the thing difficult to attain.
And this would help him to understand why constructing artificial flowers or performing on a tread-mill is work, while rolling ten-pins or climbing Mont Blanc is only amusement.
Her spectacles were propped up on her gray head for safety.
She had thought that of course Tom had deserted long ago, and she wondered at seeing him place himself in her power again in this intrepid way.
He said: "Mayn't I go and play now, aunt?" "What, a'ready?
How much have you done?" "It's all done, aunt." "Tom, don't lie to me-I can't bear it." "I ain't, aunt; it _is_ all done." Aunt Polly placed small trust in such evidence.
She went out to see for herself; and she would have been content to find twenty per cent. of Tom's statement true.
When she found the entire fence white-washed, and not only whitewashed but elaborately coated and recoated, and even a streak added to the ground, her astonishment was almost unspeakable.
She said: "Well, I never!
There's no getting round it, you can work when you're a mind to, Tom.
And then she diluted the compliment by adding, "But it's powerful seldom you're a mind to, I'm bound to say.
Clods were handy and the air was full of them in a twinkling.
They raged around Sid like a hail-storm; and before Aunt Polly could collect her surprised faculties and sally to the rescue, six or seven clods had taken personal effect, and Tom was over the fence and gone.
There was a gate, but as a general thing he was too crowded for time to make use of it.
He presently got safely beyond the reach of capture and punishment, and hastened toward the public square of the village, where two "military" companies of boys had met for conflict, according to previous appointment.
Tom was General of one of these armies, Joe Harper (a bosom friend) General of the other.
These two great commanders did not condescend to fight in person-that being better suited to the still smaller fry-but sat together on an eminence and conducted the field operations by orders delivered through aides-de-camp.
Tom's army won a great victory, after a long and hard-fought battle.
The fresh-crowned hero fell without firing a shot.
A certain Amy Lawrence vanished out of his heart and left not even a memory of herself behind.
He had thought he loved her to distraction; he had regarded his passion as adoration; and behold it was only a poor little evanescent partiality.
He kept up this grotesque foolishness for some time; but by-and-by, while he was in the midst of some dangerous gymnastic performances, he glanced aside and saw that the little girl was wending her way toward the house.
Tom came up to the fence and leaned on it, grieving, and hoping she would tarry yet awhile longer.
She halted a moment on the steps and then moved toward the door.
Tom heaved a great sigh as she put her foot on the threshold.
Finally he strode home reluctantly, with his poor head full of visions. All through supper his spirits were so high that his aunt wondered "what had got into the child.
He took a good scolding about clodding Sid, and did not seem to mind it in the least.
He tried to steal sugar under his aunt's very nose, and got his knuckles rapped for it.
He said: "Aunt, you don't whack Sid when he takes it." "Well, Sid don't torment a body the way you do.
You'd be always into that sugar if I warn't watching you." Presently she stepped into the kitchen, and Sid, happy in his immunity, reached for the sugar-bowl-a sort of glorying over Tom which was wellnigh unbearable.
But Sid's fingers slipped and the bowl dropped and broke.
In such ecstasies that he even controlled his tongue and was silent.
He was so brimful of exultation that he could hardly hold himself when the old lady came back and stood above the wreck discharging lightnings of wrath from over her spectacles.
He said to himself, "Now it's coming!
And the next instant he was sprawling on the floor!
The potent palm was uplifted to strike again when Tom cried out: "Hold on, now, what 'er you belting _me_ for?-Sid broke it!" Aunt Polly paused, perplexed, and Tom looked for healing pity.
But when she got her tongue again, she only said: "Umf!
Well, you didn't get a lick amiss, I reckon.
He knew that in her heart his aunt was on her knees to him, and he was morosely gratified by the consciousness of it.
He would hang out no signals, he would take notice of none.
He knew that a yearning glance fell upon him, now and then, through a film of tears, but he refused recognition of it.
He pictured himself lying sick unto death and his aunt bending over him beseeching one little forgiving word, but he would turn his face to the wall, and die with that word unsaid.
Ah, how would she feel then?
And he pictured himself brought home from the river, dead, with his curls all wet, and his sore heart at rest.
How she would throw herself upon him, and how her tears would fall like rain, and her lips pray God to give her back her boy and she would never, never abuse him any more!
But he would lie there cold and white and make no sign-a poor little sufferer, whose griefs were at an end.
Then he thought of his flower. He got it out, rumpled and wilted, and it mightily increased his dismal felicity.
He wondered if she would pity him if she knew?
Would she cry, and wish that she had a right to put her arms around his neck and comfort him?
Was the sacred presence there?
Sid had learned his lesson days before.
Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Why don't you tell me, Mary?-what do you want to be so mean for?" "Oh, Tom, you poor thick-headed thing, I'm not teasing you.
You must go and learn it again.
Don't you be discouraged, Tom, you'll manage it-and if you do, I'll give you something ever so nice. There, now, that's a good boy." "All right!
What is it, Mary, tell me what it is." "Never you mind, Tom.
You know if I say it's nice, it is nice." "You bet you that's so, Mary.
All right, I'll tackle it again." And he did "tackle it again"-and under the double pressure of curiosity and prospective gain he did it with such spirit that he accomplished a shining success.
Mary gave him a brand-new "Barlow" knife worth twelve and a half cents; and the convulsion of delight that swept his system shook him to his foundations.
But Mary removed the towel and said: "Now ain't you ashamed, Tom.
You mustn't be so bad.
Water won't hurt you." Tom was a trifle disconcerted.
The basin was refilled, and this time he stood over it a little while, gathering resolution; took in a big breath and began.
When he entered the kitchen presently, with both eyes shut and groping for the towel with his hands, an honorable testimony of suds and water was dripping from his face.
The girl "put him to rights" after he had dressed himself; she buttoned his neat roundabout up to his chin, turned his vast shirt collar down over his shoulders, brushed him off and crowned him with his speckled straw hat.
He now looked exceedingly improved and uncomfortable.
He was fully as uncomfortable as he looked; for there was a restraint about whole clothes and cleanliness that galled him.
He hoped that Mary would forget his shoes, but the hope was blighted; she coated them thoroughly with tallow, as was the custom, and brought them out.
He lost his temper and said he was always being made to do everything he didn't want to do.
But Mary said, persuasively: "Please, Tom-that's a good boy." So he got into the shoes snarling.
Mary was soon ready, and the three children set out for Sunday-school-a place that Tom hated with his whole heart; but Sid and Mary were fond of it. Sabbath-school hours were from nine to half-past ten; and then church service.
Two of the children always remained for the sermon voluntarily, and the other always remained too-for stronger reasons.
The church's high-backed, uncushioned pews would seat about three hundred persons; the edifice was but a small, plain affair, with a sort of pine board tree-box on top of it for a steeple.
At the door Tom dropped back a step and accosted a Sunday-dressed comrade: "Say, Billy, got a yaller ticket?" "Yes." "What'll you take for her?" "What'll you give?" "Piece of lickrish and a fish-hook." "Less see 'em." Tom exhibited.
They were satisfactory, and the property changed hands. Then Tom traded a couple of white alleys for three red tickets, and some small trifle or other for a couple of blue ones.
He waylaid other boys as they came, and went on buying tickets of various colors ten or fifteen minutes longer.
He entered the church, now, with a swarm of clean and noisy boys and girls, proceeded to his seat and started a quarrel with the first boy that came handy.
Tom's whole class were of a pattern-restless, noisy, and troublesome.
When they came to recite their lessons, not one of them knew his verses perfectly, but had to be prompted all along.
However, they worried through, and each got his reward-in small blue tickets, each with a passage of Scripture on it; each blue ticket was pay for two verses of the recitation.
And yet Mary had acquired two Bibles in this way-it was the patient work of two years-and a boy of German parentage had won four or five.
He began after this fashion: "Now, children, I want you all to sit up just as straight and pretty as you can and give me all your attention for a minute or two.
That is the way good little boys and girls should do.
And so forth and so on.
It is not necessary to set down the rest of the oration.
The lady was leading a child.
Tom had been restless and full of chafings and repinings; conscience-smitten, too-he could not meet Amy Lawrence's eye, he could not brook her loving gaze.
But when he saw this small newcomer his soul was all ablaze with bliss in a moment.
The next moment he was "showing off" with all his might-cuffing boys, pulling hair, making faces-in a word, using every art that seemed likely to fascinate a girl and win her applause.
He was from Constantinople, twelve miles away-so he had travelled, and seen the world-these very eyes had looked upon the county court-house-which was said to have a tin roof.
The awe which these reflections inspired was attested by the impressive silence and the ranks of staring eyes.
This was the great Judge Thatcher, brother of their own lawyer.
Jeff Thatcher immediately went forward, to be familiar with the great man and be envied by the school.
It would have been music to his soul to hear the whisperings: "Look at him, Jim!
He's a going up there.
Say-look! he's a going to shake hands with him-he _is_ shaking hands with him!
By jings, don't you wish you was Jeff?" Mr. Walters fell to "showing off," with all sorts of official bustlings and activities, giving orders, delivering judgments, discharging directions here, there, everywhere that he could find a target.
The little girls "showed off" in various ways, and the little boys "showed off" with such diligence that the air was thick with paper wads and the murmur of scufflings.
This was a thunderbolt out of a clear sky.
Walters was not expecting an application from this source for the next ten years.
But there was no getting around it-here were the certified checks, and they were good for their face.
Tom was therefore elevated to a place with the Judge and the other elect, and the great news was announced from headquarters.
It was the most stunning surprise of the decade, and so profound was the sensation that it lifted the new hero up to the judicial one's altitude, and the school had two marvels to gaze upon in place of one.
Tom most of all (she thought). Tom was introduced to the Judge; but his tongue was tied, his breath would hardly come, his heart quaked-partly because of the awful greatness of the man, but mainly because he was her parent.
He would have liked to fall down and worship him, if it were in the dark.
The Judge put his hand on Tom's head and called him a fine little man, and asked him what his name was.
The boy stammered, gasped, and got it out: "Tom." "Oh, no, not Tom-it is-" "Thomas." "Ah, that's it.
I thought there was more to it, maybe.
That's very well. But you've another one I daresay, and you'll tell it to me, won't you?" "Tell the gentleman your other name, Thomas," said Walters, "and say sir.
You mustn't forget your manners." "Thomas Sawyer-sir." "That's it!
Two thousand verses is a great many-very, very great many.
That is what you will say, Thomas-and you wouldn't take any money for those two thousand verses-no indeed you wouldn't.
And now you wouldn't mind telling me and this lady some of the things you've learned-no, I know you wouldn't-for we are proud of little boys that learn.
Now, no doubt you know the names of all the twelve disciples.
Won't you tell us the names of the first two that were appointed?" Tom was tugging at a button-hole and looking sheepish.
He blushed, now, and his eyes fell.
Mr. Walters' heart sank within him.
He said to himself, it is not possible that the boy can answer the simplest question-why _did_ the Judge ask him?
Yet he felt obliged to speak up and say: "Answer the gentleman, Thomas-don't be afraid." Tom still hung fire. "Now I know you'll tell me," said the lady.
The Sunday-school children distributed themselves about the house and occupied pews with their parents, so as to be under supervision.
Aunt Polly came, and Tom and Sid and Mary sat with her-Tom being placed next the aisle, in order that he might be as far away from the open window and the seductive outside summer scenes as possible.
He always brought his mother to church, and was the pride of all the matrons.
The boys all hated him, he was so good.
And besides, he had been "thrown up to them" so much.
His white handkerchief was hanging out of his pocket behind, as usual on Sundays-accidentally.
The choir always tittered and whispered all through service.
There was once a church choir that was not ill-bred, but I have forgotten where it was, now.
Often, the less there is to justify a traditional custom, the harder it is to get rid of it. And now the minister prayed.
Amen. There was a rustling of dresses, and the standing congregation sat down. The boy whose history this book relates did not enjoy the prayer, he only endured it-if he even did that much.
As indeed it was; for as sorely as Tom's hands itched to grab for it they did not dare-he believed his soul would be instantly destroyed if he did such a thing while the prayer was going on.
But with the closing sentence his hand began to curve and steal forward; and the instant the "Amen" was out the fly was a prisoner of war.
Tom counted the pages of the sermon; after church he always knew how many pages there had been, but he seldom knew anything else about the discourse.
However, this time he was really interested for a little while.
The minister made a grand and moving picture of the assembling together of the world's hosts at the millennium when the lion and the lamb should lie down together and a little child should lead them.
It was a large black beetle with formidable jaws-a "pinchbug," he called it.
It was in a percussion-cap box.
The first thing the beetle did was to take him by the finger.
A natural fillip followed, the beetle went floundering into the aisle and lit on its back, and the hurt finger went into the boy's mouth.
The beetle lay there working its helpless legs, unable to turn over.
Tom eyed it, and longed for it; but it was safe out of his reach.
Other people uninterested in the sermon found relief in the beetle, and they eyed it too.
Presently a vagrant poodle dog came idling along, sad at heart, lazy with the summer softness and the quiet, weary of captivity, sighing for change.
He spied the beetle; the drooping tail lifted and wagged.
His head nodded, and little by little his chin descended and touched the enemy, who seized it.
There was a sharp yelp, a flirt of the poodle's head, and the beetle fell a couple of yards away, and lit on its back once more.
The neighboring spectators shook with a gentle inward joy, several faces went behind fans and hand-kerchiefs, and Tom was entirely happy.
The dog looked foolish, and probably felt so; but there was resentment in his heart, too, and a craving for revenge.
He had but one marring thought; he was willing that the dog should play with his pinchbug, but he did not think it was upright in him to carry it off. CHAPTER VI Monday morning found Tom Sawyer miserable.
Monday morning always found him so-because it began another week's slow suffering in school.
He generally began that day with wishing he had had no intervening holiday, it made the going into captivity and fetters again so much more odious. Tom lay thinking.
Presently it occurred to him that he wished he was sick; then he could stay home from school.
Here was a vague possibility. He canvassed his system.
No ailment was found, and he investigated again.
This time he thought he could detect colicky symptoms, and he began to encourage them with considerable hope.
But they soon grew feeble, and presently died wholly away.
One of his upper front teeth was loose.
So the boy eagerly drew his sore toe from under the sheet and held it up for inspection. But now he did not know the necessary symptoms.
He took a rest and then swelled himself up and fetched a succession of admirable groans. Sid snored on. Tom was aggravated.
He said, "Sid, Sid!" and shook him.
This course worked well, and Tom began to groan again.
Sid yawned, stretched, then brought himself up on his elbow with a snort, and began to stare at Tom. Tom went on groaning.
Say, Tom!" [No response.] "Here, Tom!
What is the matter, Tom?
And he shook him and looked in his face anxiously. Tom moaned out: "Oh, don't, Sid.
Don't joggle me." "Why, what's the matter, Tom?
I must call auntie." "No-never mind.
It'll be over by and by, maybe.
Don't call anybody." "But I must! _Don't_ groan so, Tom, it's awful.
How long you been this way?" "Hours.
Oh, don't stir so, Sid, you'll kill me." "Tom, why didn't you wake me sooner?
Oh, Tom, _don't!_ It makes my flesh crawl to hear you.
Tom, what is the matter?" "I forgive you everything, Sid. [Groan.] Everything you've ever done to me.
When I'm gone-" "Oh, Tom, you ain't dying, are you?
Maybe-" "I forgive everybody, Sid. [Groan.] Tell 'em so, Sid.
And Sid, you give my window-sash and my cat with one eye to that new girl that's come to town, and tell her-" But Sid had snatched his clothes and gone.
Tom was suffering in reality, now, so handsomely was his imagination working, and so his groans had gathered quite a genuine tone. Sid flew downstairs and said: "Oh, Aunt Polly, come!
I don't believe it!" But she fled upstairs, nevertheless, with Sid and Mary at her heels. And her face grew white, too, and her lip trembled.
When she reached the bedside she gasped out: "You, Tom!
This restored her and she said: "Tom, what a turn you did give me.
Now you shut up that nonsense and climb out of this." The groans ceased and the pain vanished from the toe.
The boy felt a little foolish, and he said: "Aunt Polly, it _seemed_ mortified, and it hurt so I never minded my tooth at all." "Your tooth, indeed!
What's the matter with your tooth?" "One of them's loose, and it aches perfectly awful." "There, there, now, don't begin that groaning again.
Open your mouth. Well-your tooth _is_ loose, but you're not going to die about that. Mary, get me a silk thread, and a chunk of fire out of the kitchen." Tom said: "Oh, please, auntie, don't pull it out.
It don't hurt any more.
I wish I may never stir if it does.
I don't want to stay home from school." "Oh, you don't, don't you?
So all this row was because you thought you'd get to stay home from school and go a-fishing?
Tom, Tom, I love you so, and you seem to try every way you can to break my old heart with your outrageousness.
By this time the dental instruments were ready.
The old lady made one end of the silk thread fast to Tom's tooth with a loop and tied the other to the bedpost.
Then she seized the chunk of fire and suddenly thrust it almost into the boy's face.
The tooth hung dangling by the bedpost, now. But all trials bring their compensations.
As Tom wended to school after breakfast, he was the envy of every boy he met because the gap in his upper row of teeth enabled him to expectorate in a new and admirable way.
Tom was like the rest of the respectable boys, in that he envied Huckleberry his gaudy outcast condition, and was under strict orders not to play with him.
So he played with him every time he got a chance. Huckleberry was always dressed in the cast-off clothes of full-grown men, and they were in perennial bloom and fluttering with rags.
In a word, everything that goes to make life precious that boy had.
So thought every harassed, hampered, respectable boy in St. Petersburg. Tom hailed the romantic outcast: "Hello, Huckleberry!" "Hello yourself, and see how you like it." "What's that you got?" "Dead cat." "Lemme see him, Huck.
I know something that's better." "I bet you don't.
What is it?" "Why, spunk-water." "Spunk-water!
I wouldn't give a dern for spunk-water." "You wouldn't, wouldn't you?
D'you ever try it?" "No, I hain't.
But Bob Tanner did." "Who told you so!" "Why, he told Jeff Thatcher, and Jeff told Johnny Baker, and Johnny told Jim Hollis, and Jim told Ben Rogers, and Ben told a nigger, and the nigger told me.
There now!" "Well, what of it?
Leastways all but the nigger.
But I never see a nigger that _wouldn't_ lie.
Shucks! Now you tell me how Bob Tanner done it, Huck." "Why, he took and dipped his hand in a rotten stump where the rain-water was." "In the daytime?" "Certainly." "With his face to the stump?" "Yes.
Least I reckon so." "Did he say anything?" "I don't reckon he did.
Talk about trying to cure warts with spunk-water such a blame fool way as that!
Why, that ain't a-going to do any good.
I've took off thousands of warts off of my hands that way, Huck.
I play with frogs so much that I've always got considerable many warts.
Sometimes I take 'em off with a bean." "Yes, bean's good.
I've done that." "Have you?
That'll fetch _any_ wart." "Sounds right.
D'you ever try it, Huck?" "No, but old Mother Hopkins told me." "Well, I reckon it's so, then.
Becuz they say she's a witch." "Say!
Why, Tom, I _know_ she is.
Pap says so his own self.
He come along one day, and he see she was a-witching him, so he took up a rock, and if she hadn't dodged, he'd a got her.
Well, that very night he rolled off'n a shed wher' he was a layin drunk, and broke his arm." "Why, that's awful.
How did he know she was a-witching him?" "Lord, pap can tell, easy.
Pap says when they keep looking at you right stiddy, they're a-witching you.
Becuz when they mumble they're saying the Lord's Prayer backards." "Say, Hucky, when you going to try the cat?" "To-night.
I reckon they'll come after old Hoss Williams to-night." "But they buried him Saturday.
Didn't they get him Saturday night?" "Why, how you talk!
How could their charms work till midnight?-and _then_ it's Sunday.
Devils don't slosh around much of a Sunday, I don't reckon." "I never thought of that.
Lemme go with you?" "Of course-if you ain't afeard." "Afeard!
Will you meow?" "Yes-and you meow back, if you get a chance.
Last time, you kep' me a-meowing around till old Hays went to throwing rocks at me and says 'Dern that cat!' and so I hove a brick through his window-but don't you tell." "I won't.
I couldn't meow that night, becuz auntie was watching me, but I'll meow this time.
Say-what's that?" "Nothing but a tick." "Where'd you get him?" "Out in the woods." "What'll you take for him?" "I don't know.
I don't want to sell him." "All right.
It's a mighty small tick, anyway." "Oh, anybody can run a tick down that don't belong to them.
It's a good enough tick for me." "Sho, there's ticks a plenty.
I could have a thousand of 'em if I wanted to." "Well, why don't you?
Becuz you know mighty well you can't.
This is a pretty early tick, I reckon.
It's the first one I've seen this year." "Say, Huck-I'll give you my tooth for him." "Less see it." Tom got out a bit of paper and carefully unrolled it.
The temptation was very strong.
He hung his hat on a peg and flung himself into his seat with business-like alacrity.
The master, throned on high in his great splint-bottom arm-chair, was dozing, lulled by the drowsy hum of study.
The interruption roused him. "Thomas Sawyer!" Tom knew that when his name was pronounced in full, it meant trouble. "Sir!" "Come up here.
He instantly said: "_I stopped to talk with Huckleberry Finn!_" The master's pulse stood still, and he stared helplessly.
The buzz of study ceased.
The pupils wondered if this foolhardy boy had lost his mind.
The master said: "You-you did what?" "Stopped to talk with Huckleberry Finn." There was no mistaking the words. "Thomas Sawyer, this is the most astounding confession I have ever listened to.
No mere ferule will answer for this offence.
Take off your jacket." The master's arm performed until it was tired and the stock of switches notably diminished.
Then the order followed: "Now, sir, go and sit with the girls!
He sat down upon the end of the pine bench and the girl hitched herself away from him with a toss of her head.
Presently the boy began to steal furtive glances at the girl.
She observed it, "made a mouth" at him and gave him the back of her head for the space of a minute.
When she cautiously faced around again, a peach lay before her.
Tom gently put it back.
She thrust it away again, but with less animosity.
Tom patiently returned it to its place.
Then she let it remain.
Tom scrawled on his slate, "Please take it-I got more.
The girl glanced at the words, but made no sign.
Now the boy began to draw something on the slate, hiding his work with his left hand.
For a time the girl refused to notice; but her human curiosity presently began to manifest itself by hardly perceptible signs.
The boy worked on, apparently unconscious.
The girl made a sort of non-committal attempt to see, but the boy did not betray that he was aware of it.
At last she gave in and hesitatingly whispered: "Let me see it." Tom partly uncovered a dismal caricature of a house with two gable ends to it and a corkscrew of smoke issuing from the chimney.
Then the girl's interest began to fasten itself upon the work and she forgot everything else.
When it was finished, she gazed a moment, then whispered: "It's nice-make a man." The artist erected a man in the front yard, that resembled a derrick.
The girl said: "It's ever so nice-I wish I could draw." "It's easy," whispered Tom, "I'll learn you." "Oh, will you?
Do you go home to dinner?" "I'll stay if you will." "Good-that's a whack.
What's your name?" "Becky Thatcher.
It's Thomas Sawyer." "That's the name they lick me by.
I'm Tom when I'm good.
You call me Tom, will you?" "Yes." Now Tom began to scrawl something on the slate, hiding the words from the girl.
But she was not backward this time.
Tom said: "Oh, it ain't anything." "Yes it is." "No it ain't.
You don't want to see." "Yes I do, indeed I do.
Please let me." "You'll tell." "No I won't-deed and deed and double deed won't." "You won't tell anybody at all?
Ever, as long as you live?" "No, I won't ever tell _any_body.
Now let me." "Oh, _you_ don't want to see!" "Now that you treat me so, I _will_ see.
And she put her small hand upon his and a little scuffle ensued, Tom pretending to resist in earnest but letting his hand slip by degrees till these words were revealed: "_I love you_." "Oh, you bad thing!
And she hit his hand a smart rap, but reddened and looked pleased, nevertheless. Just at this juncture the boy felt a slow, fateful grip closing on his ear, and a steady lifting impulse.
In that wise he was borne across the house and deposited in his own seat, under a peppering fire of giggles from the whole school.
Then the master stood over him during a few awful moments, and finally moved away to his throne without saying a word.
But although Tom's ear tingled, his heart was jubilant. As the school quieted down Tom made an honest effort to study, but the turmoil within him was too great.
So at last, with a sigh and a yawn, he gave it up.
It seemed to him that the noon recess would never come.
The air was utterly dead. There was not a breath stirring.
It was the sleepiest of sleepy days. The drowsing murmur of the five and twenty studying scholars soothed the soul like the spell that is in the murmur of bees.
Then furtively the percussion-cap box came out.
He released the tick and put him on the long flat desk.
This bosom friend was Joe Harper.
The two boys were sworn friends all the week, and embattled enemies on Saturdays.
Joe took a pin out of his lapel and began to assist in exercising the prisoner. The sport grew in interest momently.
Soon Tom said that they were interfering with each other, and neither getting the fullest benefit of the tick.
Joe harassed him awhile, and then he got away and crossed back again.
This change of base occurred often.
While one boy was worrying the tick with absorbing interest, the other would look on with interest as strong, the two heads bowed together over the slate, and the two souls dead to all things else.
At last luck seemed to settle and abide with Joe.
At last Tom could stand it no longer.
The temptation was too strong.
So he reached out and lent a hand with his pin.
Joe was angry in a moment.
I'll go the other way and come it over 'em the same way." So the one went off with one group of scholars, and the other with another.
In a little while the two met at the bottom of the lane, and when they reached the school they had it all to themselves.
Then they sat together, with a slate before them, and Tom gave Becky the pencil and held her hand in his, guiding it, and so created another surprising house.
When the interest in art began to wane, the two fell to talking. Tom was swimming in bliss.
He said: "Do you love rats?" "No!
I hate them!" "Well, I do, too-_live_ ones.
But I mean dead ones, to swing round your head with a string." "No, I don't care for rats much, anyway.
What I like is chewing-gum." "Oh, I should say so!
I wish I had some now." "Do you?
Church ain't shucks to a circus.
There's things going on at a circus all the time. I'm going to be a clown in a circus when I grow up." "Oh, are you!
They're so lovely, all spotted up." "Yes, that's so.
And they get slathers of money-most a dollar a day, Ben Rogers says.
Say, Becky, was you ever engaged?" "What's that?" "Why, engaged to be married." "No." "Would you like to?" "I reckon so.
What is it like?" "Like?
Why it ain't like anything.
You only just tell a boy you won't ever have anybody but him, ever ever ever, and then you kiss and that's all.
Anybody can do it." "Kiss?
What do you kiss for?" "Why, that, you know, is to-well, they always do that." "Everybody?" "Why, yes, everybody that's in love with each other.
Do you remember what I wrote on the slate?" "Ye-yes." "What was it?" "I sha'n't tell you." "Shall I tell _you_?" "Ye-yes-but some other time." "No, now." "No, not now-to-morrow." "Oh, no, _now_.
Please, Becky-I'll whisper it, I'll whisper it ever so easy." Becky hesitating, Tom took silence for consent, and passed his arm about her waist and whispered the tale ever so softly, with his mouth close to her ear.
And then he added: "Now you whisper it to me-just the same." She resisted, for a while, and then said: "You turn your face away so you can't see, and then I will.
But you mustn't ever tell anybody-_will_ you, Tom?
Now you won't, _will_ you?" "No, indeed, indeed I won't.
Now, Becky." He turned his face away.
Tom clasped her about her neck and pleaded: "Now, Becky, it's all done-all over but the kiss.
Don't you be afraid of that-it ain't anything at all.
And he tugged at her apron and the hands. By and by she gave up, and let her hands drop; her face, all glowing with the struggle, came up and submitted.
Tom kissed the red lips and said: "Now it's all done, Becky.
And always after this, you know, you ain't ever to love anybody but me, and you ain't ever to marry anybody but me, ever never and forever.
Will you?" "No, I'll never love anybody but you, Tom, and I'll never marry anybody but you-and you ain't to ever marry anybody but me, either." "Certainly.
I never heard of it before." "Oh, it's ever so gay!
Why, me and Amy Lawrence-" The big eyes told Tom his blunder and he stopped, confused. "Oh, Tom!
Then I ain't the first you've ever been engaged to!" The child began to cry.
Tom tried again, with soothing words in his mouth, and was repulsed again.
Then his pride was up, and he strode away and went outside.
He stood about, restless and uneasy, for a while, glancing at the door, every now and then, hoping she would repent and come to find him.
Then he began to feel badly and fear that he was in the wrong.
It was a hard struggle with him to make new advances, now, but he nerved himself to it and entered.
She was still standing back there in the corner, sobbing, with her face to the wall.
He went to her and stood a moment, not knowing exactly how to proceed.
Then he said hesitatingly: "Becky, I-I don't care for anybody but you." No reply-but sobs. "Becky"-pleadingly.
Then Tom marched out of the house and over the hills and far away, to return to school no more that day.
Presently Becky began to suspect.
She ran to the door; he was not in sight; she flew around to the play-yard; he was not there.
Come back, Tom!" She listened intently, but there was no answer.
She had no companions but silence and loneliness.
He crossed a small "branch" two or three times, because of a prevailing juvenile superstition that to cross water baffled pursuit.
Half an hour later he was disappearing behind the Douglas mansion on the summit of Cardiff Hill, and the school-house was hardly distinguishable away off in the valley behind him.
The boy's soul was steeped in melancholy; his feelings were in happy accord with his surroundings.
He sat long with his elbows on his knees and his chin in his hands, meditating.
If he only had a clean Sunday-school record he could be willing to go, and be done with it all.
Now as to this girl.
He had meant the best in the world, and been treated like a dog-like a very dog.
She would be sorry some day-maybe when it was too late.
Ah, if he could only die _temporarily_! But the elastic heart of youth cannot be compressed into one constrained shape long at a time.
Tom presently began to drift insensibly back into the concerns of this life again.
What if he turned his back, now, and disappeared mysteriously?
What if he went away-ever so far away, into unknown countries beyond the seas-and never came back any more!
How would she feel then!
The idea of being a clown recurred to him now, only to fill him with disgust.
For frivolity and jokes and spotted tights were an offense, when they intruded themselves upon a spirit that was exalted into the vague august realm of the romantic.
But no, there was something gaudier even than this.
He would be a pirate!
That was it! _now_ his future lay plain before him, and glowing with unimaginable splendor.
How his name would fill the world, and make people shudder! How gloriously he would go plowing the dancing seas, in his long, low, black-hulled racer, the Spirit of the Storm, with his grisly flag flying at the fore!
He would run away from home and enter upon it.
He would start the very next morning.
Therefore he must now begin to get ready.
He would collect his resources together. He went to a rotten log near at hand and began to dig under one end of it with his Barlow knife.
He soon struck wood that sounded hollow.
He put his hand there and uttered this incantation impressively: "What hasn't come here, come!
What's here, stay here!" Then he scraped away the dirt, and exposed a pine shingle.
He took it up and disclosed a shapely little treasure-house whose bottom and sides were of shingles.
In it lay a marble.
Tom's astonishment was boundless! He scratched his head with a perplexed air, and said: "Well, that beats anything!" Then he tossed the marble away pettishly, and stood cogitating.
The truth was, that a superstition of his had failed, here, which he and all his comrades had always looked upon as infallible.
But now, this thing had actually and unquestionably failed. Tom's whole structure of faith was shaken to its foundations.
He had many a time heard of this thing succeeding but never of its failing before.
It did not occur to him that he had tried it several times before, himself, but could never find the hiding-places afterward.
He puzzled over the matter some time, and finally decided that some witch had interfered and broken the charm.
He thought he would satisfy himself on that point; so he searched around till he found a small sandy spot with a little funnel-shaped depression in it.
He laid himself down and put his mouth close to this depression and called- "Doodle-bug, doodle-bug, tell me what I want to know!
Doodle-bug, doodle-bug, tell me what I want to know!" The sand began to work, and presently a small black bug appeared for a second and then darted under again in a fright. "He dasn't tell!
So it _was_ a witch that done it.
I just knowed it." He well knew the futility of trying to contend against witches, so he gave up discouraged.
But it occurred to him that he might as well have the marble he had just thrown away, and therefore he went and made a patient search for it.
But he could not find it.
But it must have fallen short or gone too far; so he tried twice more.
The last repetition was successful.
The two marbles lay within a foot of each other. Just here the blast of a toy tin trumpet came faintly down the green aisles of the forest.
He presently halted under a great elm, blew an answering blast, and then began to tiptoe and look warily out, this way and that.
He said cautiously-to an imaginary company: "Hold, my merry men!
Keep hid till I blow." Now appeared Joe Harper, as airily clad and elaborately armed as Tom. Tom called: "Hold!
Who comes here into Sherwood Forest without my pass?" "Guy of Guisborne wants no man's pass.
Who art thou that-that-" "Dares to hold such language," said Tom, prompting-for they talked "by the book," from memory. "Who art thou that dares to hold such language?" "I, indeed!
I am Robin Hood, as thy caitiff carcase soon shall know." "Then art thou indeed that famous outlaw?
Right gladly will I dispute with thee the passes of the merry wood.
Have at thee!" They took their lath swords, dumped their other traps on the ground, struck a fencing attitude, foot to foot, and began a grave, careful combat, "two up and two down.
Presently Tom said: "Now, if you've got the hang, go it lively!" So they "went it lively," panting and perspiring with the work.
By and by Tom shouted: "Fall! fall!
Why don't you fall?" "I sha'n't!
Why don't you fall yourself?
You're getting the worst of it." "Why, that ain't anything.
I can't fall; that ain't the way it is in the book.
The book says, 'Then with one back-handed stroke he slew poor Guy of Guisborne.
You're to turn around and let me hit you in the back." There was no getting around the authorities, so Joe turned, received the whack and fell. "Now," said Joe, getting up, "you got to let me kill _you_.
Then Tom became Robin Hood again, and was allowed by the treacherous nun to bleed his strength away through his neglected wound.
And at last Joe, representing a whole tribe of weeping outlaws, dragged him sadly forth, gave his bow into his feeble hands, and Tom said, "Where this arrow falls, there bury poor Robin Hood under the greenwood tree.
Tom lay awake and waited, in restless impatience.
When it seemed to him that it must be nearly daylight, he heard the clock strike ten!
He would have tossed and fidgeted, as his nerves demanded, but he was afraid he might wake Sid.
So he lay still, and stared up into the dark. Everything was dismally still.
By and by, out of the stillness, little, scarcely perceptible noises began to emphasize themselves.
The ticking of the clock began to bring itself into notice.
Old beams began to crack mysteriously.
Evidently spirits were abroad. A measured, muffled snore issued from Aunt Polly's chamber.
And now the tiresome chirping of a cricket that no human ingenuity could locate, began.
Tom was in an agony.
At last he was satisfied that time had ceased and eternity begun; he began to doze, in spite of himself; the clock chimed eleven, but he did not hear it.
And then there came, mingling with his half-formed dreams, a most melancholy caterwauling.
The raising of a neighboring window disturbed him.
He "meow'd" with caution once or twice, as he went; then jumped to the roof of the woodshed and thence to the ground.
Huckleberry Finn was there, with his dead cat.
The boys moved off and disappeared in the gloom.
At the end of half an hour they were wading through the tall grass of the graveyard. It was a graveyard of the old-fashioned Western kind.
It was on a hill, about a mile and a half from the village.
It had a crazy board fence around it, which leaned inward in places, and outward the rest of the time, but stood upright nowhere.
Grass and weeds grew rank over the whole cemetery.
All the old graves were sunken in, there was not a tombstone on the place; round-topped, worm-eaten boards staggered over the graves, leaning for support and finding none.
The boys talked little, and only under their breath, for the time and the place and the pervading solemnity and silence oppressed their spirits.
The hooting of a distant owl was all the sound that troubled the dead stillness.
He must force some talk.
So he said in a whisper: "Hucky, do you believe the dead people like it for us to be here?" Huckleberry whispered: "I wisht I knowed.
It's awful solemn like, _ain't_ it?" "I bet it is." There was a considerable pause, while the boys canvassed this matter inwardly.
Then Tom whispered: "Say, Hucky-do you reckon Hoss Williams hears us talking?" "O' course he does.
Least his sperrit does." Tom, after a pause: "I wish I'd said Mister Williams.
But I never meant any harm.
Everybody calls him Hoss." "A body can't be too partic'lar how they talk 'bout these-yer dead people, Tom." This was a damper, and conversation died again. Presently Tom seized his comrade's arm and said: "Sh!" "What is it, Tom?
And the two clung together with beating hearts. "Sh!
Didn't you hear it?" "I-" "There!
Now you hear it." "Lord, Tom, they're coming!
What'll we do?" "I dono.
Think they'll see us?" "Oh, Tom, they can see in the dark, same as cats.
I wisht I hadn't come." "Oh, don't be afeard.
I don't believe they'll bother us.
We ain't doing any harm.
If we keep perfectly still, maybe they won't notice us at all." "I'll try to, Tom, but, Lord, I'm all of a shiver." "Listen!" The boys bent their heads together and scarcely breathed.
A muffled sound of voices floated up from the far end of the graveyard. "Look!
What is it?" "It's devil-fire.
Oh, Tom, this is awful." Some vague figures approached through the gloom, swinging an old-fashioned tin lantern that freckled the ground with innumerable little spangles of light.
Presently Huckleberry whispered with a shudder: "It's the devils sure enough.
Lordy, Tom, we're goners! Can you pray?" "I'll try, but don't you be afeard.
They ain't going to hurt us.
Now I lay me down to sleep, I-'" "Sh!" "What is it, Huck?" "They're _humans_!
One of 'em is, anyway.
One of 'em's old Muff Potter's voice." "No-'tain't so, is it?" "I bet I know it.
Don't you stir nor budge.
He ain't sharp enough to notice us.
Drunk, the same as usual, likely-blamed old rip!" "All right, I'll keep still.
They're p'inted right, this time.
Say, Huck, I know another o' them voices; it's Injun Joe." "That's so-that murderin' half-breed!
I'd druther they was devils a dern sight.
They cast down their load and began to open the grave. The doctor put the lantern at the head of the grave and came and sat down with his back against one of the elm trees.
He was so close the boys could have touched him. "Hurry, men!" he said, in a low voice; "the moon might come out at any moment." They growled a response and went on digging.
For some time there was no noise but the grating sound of the spades discharging their freight of mould and gravel.
Finally a spade struck upon the coffin with a dull woody accent, and within another minute or two the men had hoisted it out on the ground.
They pried off the lid with their shovels, got out the body and dumped it rudely on the ground.
The moon drifted from behind the clouds and exposed the pallid face. The barrow was got ready and the corpse placed on it, covered with a blanket, and bound to its place with the rope.
You required your pay in advance, and I've paid you." "Yes, and you done more than that," said Injun Joe, approaching the doctor, who was now standing.
Did you think I'd forget?
The Injun blood ain't in me for nothing.
Injun Joe sprang to his feet, his eyes flaming with passion, snatched up Potter's knife, and went creeping, catlike and stooping, round and round about the combatants, seeking an opportunity.
The doctor murmured inarticulately, gave a long gasp or two and was still.
The half-breed muttered: "_That_ score is settled-damn you." Then he robbed the body.
After which he put the fatal knife in Potter's open right hand, and sat down on the dismantled coffin.
Three-four-five minutes passed, and then Potter began to stir and moan.
His hand closed upon the knife; he raised it, glanced at it, and let it fall, with a shudder.
Then he sat up, pushing the body from him, and gazed at it, and then around him, confusedly.
His eyes met Joe's. "Lord, how is this, Joe?" he said. "It's a dirty business," said Joe, without moving.
What did you do it for?" "I!
I never done it!" "Look here!
That kind of talk won't wash." Potter trembled and grew white. "I thought I'd got sober.
I'd no business to drink to-night.
But it's in my head yet-worse'n when we started here.
I'm all in a muddle; can't recollect anything of it, hardly.
Tell me, Joe-_honest_, now, old feller-did I do it?
Joe, I never meant to-'pon my soul and honor, I never meant to, Joe.
Tell me how it was, Joe.
I wish I may die this minute if I did.
It was all on account of the whiskey and the excitement, I reckon. I never used a weepon in my life before, Joe.
I've fought, but never with weepons.
Say you won't tell, Joe-that's a good feller.
I always liked you, Joe, and stood up for you, too.
You _won't_ tell, _will_ you, Joe?
And the poor creature dropped on his knees before the stolid murderer, and clasped his appealing hands. "No, you've always been fair and square with me, Muff Potter, and I won't go back on you.
There, now, that's as fair as a man can say." "Oh, Joe, you're an angel.
I'll bless you for this the longest day I live.
And Potter began to cry. "Come, now, that's enough of that.
This ain't any time for blubbering. You be off yonder way and I'll go this.
Move, now, and don't leave any tracks behind you." Potter started on a trot that quickly increased to a run.
The half-breed stood looking after him.
The stillness was complete again, too. CHAPTER X The two boys flew on and on, toward the village, speechless with horror.
They glanced backward over their shoulders from time to time, apprehensively, as if they feared they might be followed.
We?" "What are you talking about?
S'pose something happened and Injun Joe _didn't_ hang?
Why, he'd kill us some time or other, just as dead sure as we're a laying here." "That's just what I was thinking to myself, Huck." "If anybody tells, let Muff Potter do it, if he's fool enough.
He's generally drunk enough." Tom said nothing-went on thinking.
Presently he whispered: "Huck, Muff Potter don't know it.
How can he tell?" "What's the reason he don't know it?" "Because he'd just got that whack when Injun Joe done it.
D'you reckon he could see anything?
D'you reckon he knowed anything?" "By hokey, that's so, Tom!" "And besides, look-a-here-maybe that whack done for _him_!" "No, 'taint likely, Tom.
He had liquor in him; I could see that; and besides, he always has.
Well, when pap's full, you might take and belt him over the head with a church and you couldn't phase him.
He says so, his own self.
So it's the same with Muff Potter, of course.
But if a man was dead sober, I reckon maybe that whack might fetch him; I dono." After another reflective silence, Tom said: "Hucky, you sure you can keep mum?" "Tom, we _got_ to keep mum.
That Injun devil wouldn't make any more of drownding us than a couple of cats, if we was to squeak 'bout this and they didn't hang him.
Now, look-a-here, Tom, less take and swear to one another-that's what we got to do-swear to keep mum." "I'm agreed.
Would you just hold hands and swear that we-" "Oh no, that wouldn't do for this.
That's good enough for little rubbishy common things-specially with gals, cuz _they_ go back on you anyway, and blab if they get in a huff-but there orter be writing 'bout a big thing like this.
And blood." Tom's whole being applauded this idea.
He at once took a pin from his lapel and was going to prick his flesh, but Tom said: "Hold on!
It might have verdigrease on it." "What's verdigrease?" "It's p'ison.
You just swaller some of it once-you'll see." So Tom unwound the thread from one of his needles, and each boy pricked the ball of his thumb and squeezed out a drop of blood.
In time, after many squeezes, Tom managed to sign his initials, using the ball of his little finger for a pen.
Then he showed Huckleberry how to make an H and an F, and the oath was complete.
It don't make any difference _what_ happens, we got to keep mum.
We'd drop down dead-don't _you_ know that?" "Yes, I reckon that's so." They continued to whisper for some little time.
Presently a dog set up a long, lugubrious howl just outside-within ten feet of them.
The boys clasped each other suddenly, in an agony of fright. "Which of us does he mean?" gasped Huckleberry. "I dono-peep through the crack.
Quick!" "No, _you_, Tom!" "I can't-I can't _do_ it, Huck!" "Please, Tom.
There 'tis again!" "Oh, lordy, I'm thankful!" whispered Tom.
The boys' hearts sank once more. "Oh, my! that ain't no Bull Harbison!" whispered Huckleberry. "_Do_, Tom!" Tom, quaking with fear, yielded, and put his eye to the crack.
His whisper was hardly audible when he said: "Oh, Huck, _it's a stray dog_!" "Quick, Tom, quick!
Who does he mean?" "Huck, he must mean us both-we're right together." "Oh, Tom, I reckon we're goners.
I reckon there ain't no mistake 'bout where _I'll_ go to.
I been so wicked." "Dad fetch it!
This comes of playing hookey and doing everything a feller's told _not_ to do.
I might a been good, like Sid, if I'd a tried-but no, I wouldn't, of course.
But if ever I get off this time, I lay I'll just _waller_ in Sunday-schools!
And Tom began to snuffle a little. "_You_ bad!" and Huckleberry began to snuffle too.
Consound it, Tom Sawyer, you're just old pie, 'long-side o' what I am. Oh, _lordy_, lordy, lordy, I wisht I only had half your chance." Tom choked off and whispered: "Look, Hucky, look!
He's got his _back_ to us!" Hucky looked, with joy in his heart. "Well, he has, by jingoes!
Did he before?" "Yes, he did.
But I, like a fool, never thought.
Oh, this is bully, you know. _Now_ who can he mean?" The howling stopped.
Tom pricked up his ears. "Sh!
What's that?" he whispered. "Sounds like-like hogs grunting.
No-it's somebody snoring, Tom." "That _is_ it!
Where 'bouts is it, Huck?" "I bleeve it's down at 'tother end.
Pap used to sleep there, sometimes, 'long with the hogs, but laws bless you, he just lifts things when _he_ snores.
Besides, I reckon he ain't ever coming back to this town any more." The spirit of adventure rose in the boys' souls once more. "Hucky, do you das't to go if I lead?" "I don't like to, much.
Tom, s'pose it's Injun Joe!" Tom quailed.
But presently the temptation rose up strong again and the boys agreed to try, with the understanding that they would take to their heels if the snoring stopped.
So they went tiptoeing stealthily down, the one behind the other.
When they had got to within five steps of the snorer, Tom stepped on a stick, and it broke with a sharp snap.
The man moaned, writhed a little, and his face came into the moonlight.
The boys' hearts had stood still, and their hopes too, when the man moved, but their fears passed away now.
They tip-toed out, through the broken weather-boarding, and stopped at a little distance to exchange a parting word.
That long, lugubrious howl rose on the night air again!
Didn't Gracie Miller fall in the kitchen fire and burn herself terrible the very next Saturday?" "Yes, but she ain't _dead_.
And what's more, she's getting better, too." "All right, you wait and see.
She's a goner, just as dead sure as Muff Potter's a goner.
That's what the niggers say, and they know all about these kind of things, Huck." Then they separated, cogitating.
When Tom crept in at his bedroom window the night was almost spent.
He undressed with excessive caution, and fell asleep congratulating himself that nobody knew of his escapade.
He was not aware that the gently-snoring Sid was awake, and had been so for an hour. When Tom awoke, Sid was dressed and gone.
There was a late look in the light, a late sense in the atmosphere.
Why had he not been called-persecuted till he was up, as usual?
The thought filled him with bodings.
Within five minutes he was dressed and down-stairs, feeling sore and drowsy.
The family were still at table, but they had finished breakfast.
There was no voice of rebuke; but there were averted eyes; there was a silence and an air of solemnity that struck a chill to the culprit's heart.
He moped to school gloomy and sad, and took his flogging, along with Joe Harper, for playing hookey the day before, with the air of one whose heart was busy with heavier woes and wholly dead to trifles.
After a long time he slowly and sadly changed his position, and took up this object with a sigh.
It was in a paper.
A long, lingering, colossal sigh followed, and his heart broke.
It was his brass andiron knob! This final feather broke the camel's back. CHAPTER XI Close upon the hour of noon the whole village was suddenly electrified with the ghastly news.
No need of the as yet un-dreamed-of telegraph; the tale flew from man to man, from group to group, from house to house, with little less than telegraphic speed.
It was also said that the town had been ransacked for this "murderer" (the public are not slow in the matter of sifting evidence and arriving at a verdict), but that he could not be found.
Horsemen had departed down all the roads in every direction, and the Sheriff "was confident" that he would be captured before night. All the town was drifting toward the graveyard.
Tom's heartbreak vanished and he joined the procession, not because he would not a thousand times rather go anywhere else, but because an awful, unaccountable fascination drew him on.
Arrived at the dreadful place, he wormed his small body through the crowd and saw the dismal spectacle. It seemed to him an age since he was there before.
He turned, and his eyes met Huckleberry's.
Then both looked elsewhere at once, and wondered if anybody had noticed anything in their mutual glance.
But everybody was talking, and intent upon the grisly spectacle before them. "Poor fellow!
This ought to be a lesson to grave robbers!
Muff Potter'll hang for this if they catch him!
This was the drift of remark; and the minister said, "It was a judgment; His hand is here." Now Tom shivered from head to heel; for his eye fell upon the stolid face of Injun Joe.
At this moment the crowd began to sway and struggle, and voices shouted, "It's him! it's him! he's coming himself!" "Who?
Who?" from twenty voices. "Muff Potter!" "Hallo, he's stopped!-Look out, he's turning!
The poor fellow's face was haggard, and his eyes showed the fear that was upon him.
Potter lifted his face and looked around him with a pathetic hopelessness in his eyes.
What did you want to come here for?" somebody said. "I couldn't help it-I couldn't help it," Potter moaned.
I wanted to run away, but I couldn't seem to come anywhere but here.
What you got on your mind, Tom?" "Nothing.
Nothing 't I know of.
But the boy's hand shook so that he spilled his coffee. "And you do talk such stuff," Sid said.
Last night you said, 'It's blood, it's blood, that's what it is!
You said that over and over. And you said, 'Don't torment me so-I'll tell!
What is it you'll tell?" Everything was swimming before Tom.
There is no telling what might have happened, now, but luckily the concern passed out of Aunt Polly's face and she came to Tom's relief without knowing it.
I dream about it most every night myself.
Sometimes I dream it's me that done it." Mary said she had been affected much the same way.
Sid seemed satisfied. Tom got out of the presence as quick as he plausibly could, and after that he complained of toothache for a week, and tied up his jaws every night.
He never knew that Sid lay nightly watching, and frequently slipped the bandage free and then leaned on his elbow listening a good while at a time, and afterward slipped the bandage back to its place again.
Tom's distress of mind wore off gradually and the toothache grew irksome and was discarded.
Sid marvelled, but said nothing.
The jail was a trifling little brick den that stood in a marsh at the edge of the village, and no guards were afforded for it; indeed, it was seldom occupied.
Becky Thatcher had stopped coming to school.
Tom had struggled with his pride a few days, and tried to "whistle her down the wind," but failed.
He began to find himself hanging around her father's house, nights, and feeling very miserable.
She was ill. What if she should die!
There was distraction in the thought.
He no longer took an interest in war, nor even in piracy.
The charm of life was gone; there was nothing but dreariness left.
He put his hoop away, and his bat; there was no joy in them any more.
She began to try all manner of remedies on him.
She was one of those people who are infatuated with patent medicines and all new-fangled methods of producing health or mending it.
She was an inveterate experimenter in these things.
When something fresh in this line came out she was in a fever, right away, to try it; not on herself, for she was never ailing, but on anybody else that came handy.
She was a subscriber for all the "Health" periodicals and phrenological frauds; and the solemn ignorance they were inflated with was breath to her nostrils.
She was as simple-hearted and honest as the day was long, and so she was an easy victim.
She gathered together her quack periodicals and her quack medicines, and thus armed with death, went about on her pale horse, metaphorically speaking, with "hell following after.
But she never suspected that she was not an angel of healing and the balm of Gilead in disguise, to the suffering neighbors. The water treatment was new, now, and Tom's low condition was a windfall to her.
She added hot baths, sitz baths, shower baths, and plunges.
The boy remained as dismal as a hearse.
She began to assist the water with a slim oatmeal diet and blister-plasters.
She calculated his capacity as she would a jug's, and filled him up every day with quack cure-alls. Tom had become indifferent to persecution by this time.
This phase filled the old lady's heart with consternation.
This indifference must be broken up at any cost.
Now she heard of Pain-killer for the first time.
She ordered a lot at once.
She tasted it and was filled with gratitude.
It was simply fire in a liquid form.
She dropped the water treatment and everything else, and pinned her faith to Pain-killer. She gave Tom a teaspoonful and watched with the deepest anxiety for the result.
Her troubles were instantly at rest, her soul at peace again; for the "indifference" was broken up.
So he thought over various plans for relief, and finally hit upon that of professing to be fond of Pain-killer.
He asked for it so often that he became a nuisance, and his aunt ended by telling him to help himself and quit bothering her.
If it had been Sid, she would have had no misgivings to alloy her delight; but since it was Tom, she watched the bottle clandestinely.
So Tom pried his mouth open and poured down the Pain-killer.
Peter sprang a couple of yards in the air, and then delivered a war-whoop and set off round and round the room, banging against furniture, upsetting flower-pots, and making general havoc.
Next he rose on his hind feet and pranced around, in a frenzy of enjoyment, with his head over his shoulder and his voice proclaiming his unappeasable happiness.
Then he went tearing around the house again spreading chaos and destruction in his path.
Aunt Polly entered in time to see him throw a few double summersets, deliver a final mighty hurrah, and sail through the open window, carrying the rest of the flower-pots with him.
The old lady stood petrified with astonishment, peering over her glasses; Tom lay on the floor expiring with laughter. "Tom, what on earth ails that cat?" "I don't know, aunt," gasped the boy. "Why, I never see anything like it.
What did make him act so?" "Deed I don't know, Aunt Polly; cats always act so when they're having a good time." "They do, do they?
There was something in the tone that made Tom apprehensive. "Yes'm.
That is, I believe they do." "You _do_?" "Yes'm." The old lady was bending down, Tom watching, with interest emphasized by anxiety.
Too late he divined her "drift.
The handle of the telltale tea-spoon was visible under the bed-valance.
Aunt Polly took it, held it up.
Tom winced, and dropped his eyes.
What has that got to do with it?" "Heaps.
Because if he'd had one she'd a burnt him out herself!
She'd a roasted his bowels out of him 'thout any more feeling than if he was a human!" Aunt Polly felt a sudden pang of remorse.
This was putting the thing in a new light; what was cruelty to a cat _might_ be cruelty to a boy, too. She began to soften; she felt sorry.
Her eyes watered a little, and she put her hand on Tom's head and said gently: "I was meaning for the best, Tom.
And, Tom, it _did_ do you good." Tom looked up in her face with just a perceptible twinkle peeping through his gravity. "I know you was meaning for the best, aunty, and so was I with Peter.
It done _him_ good, too.
I never see him get around so since-" "Oh, go 'long with you, Tom, before you aggravate me again.
And you try and see if you can't be a good boy, for once, and you needn't take any more medicine." Tom reached school ahead of time.
It was noticed that this strange thing had been occurring every day latterly.
And now, as usual of late, he hung about the gate of the schoolyard instead of playing with his comrades.
He was sick, he said, and he looked it.
He tried to seem to be looking everywhere but whither he really was looking-down the road. Presently Jeff Thatcher hove in sight, and Tom's face lighted; he gazed a moment, and then turned sorrowfully away.
When Jeff arrived, Tom accosted him; and "led up" warily to opportunities for remark about Becky, but the giddy lad never could see the bait.
Tom watched and watched, hoping whenever a frisking frock came in sight, and hating the owner of it as soon as he saw she was not the right one.
At last frocks ceased to appear, and he dropped hopelessly into the dumps; he entered the empty schoolhouse and sat down to suffer.
Then one more frock passed in at the gate, and Tom's heart gave a great bound.
But she seemed to be unconscious of it all; she never looked.
He gathered himself up and sneaked off, crushed and crestfallen. CHAPTER XIII Tom's mind was made up now.
He was gloomy and desperate.
What right had the friendless to complain?
Yes, they had forced him to it at last: he would lead a life of crime.
There was no choice. By this time he was far down Meadow Lane, and the bell for school to "take up" tinkled faintly upon his ear.
He sobbed, now, to think he should never, never hear that old familiar sound any more-it was very hard, but it was forced on him; since he was driven out into the cold world, he must submit-but he forgave them.
Then the sobs came thick and fast. Just at this point he met his soul's sworn comrade, Joe Harper-hard-eyed, and with evidently a great and dismal purpose in his heart.
Plainly here were "two souls with but a single thought.
Then they began to lay their plans.
It was not inhabited; it lay far over toward the further shore, abreast a dense and almost wholly unpeopled forest.
So Jackson's Island was chosen.
Who were to be the subjects of their piracies was a matter that did not occur to them.
Then they hunted up Huckleberry Finn, and he joined them promptly, for all careers were one to him; he was indifferent.
They presently separated to meet at a lonely spot on the river-bank two miles above the village at the favorite hour-which was midnight.
There was a small log raft there which they meant to capture. Each would bring hooks and lines, and such provision as he could steal in the most dark and mysterious way-as became outlaws.
And before the afternoon was done, they had all managed to enjoy the sweet glory of spreading the fact that pretty soon the town would "hear something.
All who got this vague hint were cautioned to "be mum and wait." About midnight Tom arrived with a boiled ham and a few trifles, and stopped in a dense undergrowth on a small bluff overlooking the meeting-place.
It was starlight, and very still.
The mighty river lay like an ocean at rest.
Tom listened a moment, but no sound disturbed the quiet.
Then he gave a low, distinct whistle.
It was answered from under the bluff.
Tom whistled twice more; these signals were answered in the same way.
Then a guarded voice said: "Who goes there?" "Tom Sawyer, the Black Avenger of the Spanish Main.
Name your names." "Huck Finn the Red-Handed, and Joe Harper the Terror of the Seas.
Tom had furnished these titles, from his favorite literature. "'Tis well.
Finn the Red-Handed had stolen a skillet and a quantity of half-cured leaf tobacco, and had also brought a few corn-cobs to make pipes with.
But none of the pirates smoked or "chewed" but himself.
The Black Avenger of the Spanish Main said it would never do to start without some fire.
That was a wise thought; matches were hardly known there in that day.
They saw a fire smouldering upon a great raft a hundred yards above, and they went stealthily thither and helped themselves to a chunk.
Lay out aloft, there, half a dozen of ye-foretopmaststuns'l!
Lively, now!" "Aye-aye, sir!" "Shake out that maintogalans'l!
Sheets and braces! _now_ my hearties!" "Aye-aye, sir!" "Hellum-a-lee-hard a port!
Stand by to meet her when she comes!
Stead-y-y-y!" "Steady it is, sir!" The raft drew beyond the middle of the river; the boys pointed her head right, and then lay on their oars.
The river was not high, so there was not more than a two or three mile current.
Hardly a word was said during the next three-quarters of an hour.
Now the raft was passing before the distant town.
Two or three glimmering lights showed where it lay, peacefully sleeping, beyond the vague vast sweep of star-gemmed water, unconscious of the tremendous event that was happening.
It was but a small strain on his imagination to remove Jackson's Island beyond eye-shot of the village, and so he "looked his last" with a broken and satisfied heart.
The other pirates were looking their last, too; and they all looked so long that they came near letting the current drift them out of the range of the island.
But they discovered the danger in time, and made shift to avert it.
About two o'clock in the morning the raft grounded on the bar two hundred yards above the head of the island, and they waded back and forth until they had landed their freight.
It seemed glorious sport to be feasting in that wild, free way in the virgin forest of an unexplored and uninhabited island, far from the haunts of men, and they said they never would return to civilization.
They could have found a cooler place, but they would not deny themselves such a romantic feature as the roasting campfire. "_Ain't_ it gay?" said Joe. "It's _nuts_!" said Tom.
What would the boys say if they could see us?" "Say?
Well, they'd just die to be here-hey, Hucky!" "I reckon so," said Huckleberry; "anyways, I'm suited.
I don't want nothing better'n this.
I don't ever get enough to eat, gen'ally-and here they can't come and pick at a feller and bullyrag him so." "It's just the life for me," said Tom.
You don't have to get up, mornings, and you don't have to go to school, and wash, and all that blame foolishness.
I'd a good deal rather be a pirate, now that I've tried it." "You see," said Tom, "people don't go much on hermits, nowadays, like they used to in old times, but a pirate's always respected.
But they've _got_ to do it.
You'd have to do that if you was a hermit." "Dern'd if I would," said Huck. "Well, what would you do?" "I dono.
But I wouldn't do that." "Why, Huck, you'd _have_ to.
How'd you get around it?" "Why, I just wouldn't stand it.
I'd run away." "Run away!
Well, you _would_ be a nice old slouch of a hermit.
You'd be a disgrace." The Red-Handed made no response, being better employed.
The other pirates envied him this majestic vice, and secretly resolved to acquire it shortly.
And the women's always beautiful, too." "And don't they wear the bulliest clothes!
The pipe dropped from the fingers of the Red-Handed, and he slept the sleep of the conscience-free and the weary. The Terror of the Seas and the Black Avenger of the Spanish Main had more difficulty in getting to sleep.
Then at once they reached and hovered upon the imminent verge of sleep-but an intruder came, now, that would not "down.
So they inwardly resolved that so long as they remained in the business, their piracies should not again be sullied with the crime of stealing.
Then conscience granted a truce, and these curiously inconsistent pirates fell peacefully to sleep. CHAPTER XIV When Tom awoke in the morning, he wondered where he was.
He sat up and rubbed his eyes and looked around.
It was the cool gray dawn, and there was a delicious sense of repose and peace in the deep pervading calm and silence of the woods.
Not a leaf stirred; not a sound obtruded upon great Nature's meditation.
Beaded dewdrops stood upon the leaves and grasses.
A white layer of ashes covered the fire, and a thin blue breath of smoke rose straight into the air.
Joe and Huck still slept. Now, far away in the woods a bird called; another answered; presently the hammering of a woodpecker was heard.
Gradually the cool dim gray of the morning whitened, and as gradually sounds multiplied and life manifested itself.
The marvel of Nature shaking off sleep and going to work unfolded itself to the musing boy.
Now a procession of ants appeared, from nowhere in particular, and went about their labors; one struggled manfully by with a dead spider five times as big as itself in its arms, and lugged it straight up a tree-trunk.
A tumblebug came next, heaving sturdily at its ball, and Tom touched the creature, to see it shut its legs against its body and pretend to be dead.
The birds were fairly rioting by this time.
They felt no longing for the little village sleeping in the distance beyond the majestic waste of water.
While Joe was slicing bacon for breakfast, Tom and Huck asked him to hold on a minute; they stepped to a promising nook in the river-bank and threw in their lines; almost immediately they had reward.
Joe had not had time to get impatient before they were back again with some handsome bass, a couple of sun-perch and a small catfish-provisions enough for quite a family.
They fried the fish with the bacon, and were astonished; for no fish had ever seemed so delicious before.
They tramped gayly along, over decaying logs, through tangled underbrush, among solemn monarchs of the forest, hung from their crowns to the ground with a drooping regalia of grape-vines.
Now and then they came upon snug nooks carpeted with grass and jeweled with flowers. They found plenty of things to be delighted with, but nothing to be astonished at.
They discovered that the island was about three miles long and a quarter of a mile wide, and that the shore it lay closest to was only separated from it by a narrow channel hardly two hundred yards wide.
They took a swim about every hour, so it was close upon the middle of the afternoon when they got back to camp.
They were too hungry to stop to fish, but they fared sumptuously upon cold ham, and then threw themselves down in the shade to talk.
But the talk soon began to drag, and then died.
The stillness, the solemnity that brooded in the woods, and the sense of loneliness, began to tell upon the spirits of the boys. They fell to thinking.
A sort of undefined longing crept upon them.
This took dim shape, presently-it was budding homesickness.
Even Finn the Red-Handed was dreaming of his doorsteps and empty hogsheads.
But now this mysterious sound became more pronounced, and forced a recognition.
The boys started, glanced at each other, and then each assumed a listening attitude.
Listen-don't talk." They waited a time that seemed an age, and then the same muffled boom troubled the solemn hush. "Let's go and see." They sprang to their feet and hurried to the shore toward the town.
They parted the bushes on the bank and peered out over the water.
The little steam ferry-boat was about a mile below the village, drifting with the current.
Her broad deck seemed crowded with people.
There were a great many skiffs rowing about or floating with the stream in the neighborhood of the ferryboat, but the boys could not determine what the men in them were doing.
Yes, and they take loaves of bread and put quicksilver in 'em and set 'em afloat, and wherever there's anybody that's drownded, they'll float right there and stop." "Yes, I've heard about that," said Joe.
I wonder what makes the bread do that." "Oh, it ain't the bread, so much," said Tom; "I reckon it's mostly what they _say_ over it before they start it out." "But they don't say anything over it," said Huck.
I've seen 'em and they don't." "Well, that's funny," said Tom.
But maybe they say it to themselves.
I'd give heaps to know who it is." The boys still listened and watched.
Presently a revealing thought flashed through Tom's mind, and he exclaimed: "Boys, I know who's drownded-it's us!" They felt like heroes in an instant.
It was worth while to be a pirate, after all. As twilight drew on, the ferryboat went back to her accustomed business and the skiffs disappeared.
The pirates returned to camp.
They were jubilant with vanity over their new grandeur and the illustrious trouble they were making.
But when the shadows of night closed them in, they gradually ceased to talk, and sat gazing into the fire, with their minds evidently wandering elsewhere.
The excitement was gone, now, and Tom and Joe could not keep back thoughts of certain persons at home who were not enjoying this fine frolic as much as they were.
Misgivings came; they grew troubled and unhappy; a sigh or two escaped, unawares.
By and by Joe timidly ventured upon a roundabout "feeler" as to how the others might look upon a return to civilization-not right now, but- Tom withered him with derision!
Huck, being uncommitted as yet, joined in with Tom, and the waverer quickly "explained," and was glad to get out of the scrape with as little taint of chicken-hearted home-sickness clinging to his garments as he could.
Mutiny was effectually laid to rest for the moment. As the night deepened, Huck began to nod, and presently to snore. Joe followed next.
Tom lay upon his elbow motionless, for some time, watching the two intently.
At last he got up cautiously, on his knees, and went searching among the grass and the flickering reflections flung by the campfire.
He picked up and inspected several large semi-cylinders of the thin white bark of a sycamore, and finally chose two which seemed to suit him.
And he also put into the hat certain schoolboy treasures of almost inestimable value-among them a lump of chalk, an India-rubber ball, three fishhooks, and one of that kind of marbles known as a "sure 'nough crystal.
Before the depth reached his middle he was halfway over; the current would permit no more wading, now, so he struck out confidently to swim the remaining hundred yards.
He swam quartering upstream, but still was swept downward rather faster than he had expected.
However, he reached the shore finally, and drifted along till he found a low place and drew himself out.
He put his hand on his jacket pocket, found his piece of bark safe, and then struck through the woods, following the shore, with streaming garments.
Shortly before ten o'clock he came out into an open place opposite the village, and saw the ferryboat lying in the shadow of the trees and the high bank.
Everything was quiet under the blinking stars.
He crept down the bank, watching with all his eyes, slipped into the water, swam three or four strokes and climbed into the skiff that did "yawl" duty at the boat's stern.
He laid himself down under the thwarts and waited, panting. Presently the cracked bell tapped and a voice gave the order to "cast off.
A minute or two later the skiff's head was standing high up, against the boat's swell, and the voyage was begun.
Tom felt happy in his success, for he knew it was the boat's last trip for the night.
He climbed over, approached the "ell," and looked in at the sitting-room window, for a light was burning there.
There sat Aunt Polly, Sid, Mary, and Joe Harper's mother, grouped together, talking.
They were by the bed, and the bed was between them and the door.
Why, that door's open, I believe.
Why, of course it is.
No end of strange things now.
Go 'long and shut it, Sid." Tom disappeared under the bed just in time.
He lay and "breathed" himself for a time, and then crept to where he could almost touch his aunt's foot. "But as I was saying," said Aunt Polly, "he warn't _bad_, so to say-only misch_ee_vous.
Only just giddy, and harum-scarum, you know.
Not a word against my Tom, now that he's gone!
God'll take care of _him_-never you trouble _your_self, sir!
Oh, Mrs. Harper, I don't know how to give him up!
I don't know how to give him up!
He was such a comfort to me, although he tormented my old heart out of me, 'most." "The Lord giveth and the Lord hath taken away-Blessed be the name of the Lord!
But it's so hard-Oh, it's so hard!
No longer ago than yesterday noon, my Tom took and filled the cat full of Pain-killer, and I did think the cretur would tear the house down.
And God forgive me, I cracked Tom's head with my thimble, poor boy, poor dead boy.
But he's out of all his troubles now. And the last words I ever heard him say was to reproach-" But this memory was too much for the old lady, and she broke entirely down.
Tom was snuffling, now, himself-and more in pity of himself than anybody else.
He could hear Mary crying, and putting in a kindly word for him from time to time.
He began to have a nobler opinion of himself than ever before.
It was believed that the search for the bodies had been a fruitless effort merely because the drowning must have occurred in mid-channel, since the boys, being good swimmers, would otherwise have escaped to shore.
If the bodies continued missing until Sunday, all hope would be given over, and the funerals would be preached on that morning.
Tom shuddered. Mrs. Harper gave a sobbing goodnight and turned to go.
Then with a mutual impulse the two bereaved women flung themselves into each other's arms and had a good, consoling cry, and then parted.
Aunt Polly was tender far beyond her wont, in her goodnight to Sid and Mary.
But at last she was still, only moaning a little in her sleep.
Now the boy stole out, rose gradually by the bedside, shaded the candle-light with his hand, and stood regarding her.
His heart was full of pity for her.
He took out his sycamore scroll and placed it by the candle.
But something occurred to him, and he lingered considering. His face lighted with a happy solution of his thought; he put the bark hastily in his pocket.
He untied the skiff at the stern, slipped into it, and was soon rowing cautiously upstream.
When he had pulled a mile above the village, he started quartering across and bent himself stoutly to his work.
He hit the landing on the other side neatly, for this was a familiar bit of work to him.
He was moved to capture the skiff, arguing that it might be considered a ship and therefore legitimate prey for a pirate, but he knew a thorough search would be made for it and that might end in revelations.
So he stepped ashore and entered the woods. He sat down and took a long rest, torturing himself meanwhile to keep awake, and then started warily down the home-stretch.
The night was far spent.
It was broad daylight before he found himself fairly abreast the island bar.
He rested again until the sun was well up and gilding the great river with its splendor, and then he plunged into the stream.
A little later he paused, dripping, upon the threshold of the camp, and heard Joe say: "No, Tom's true-blue, Huck, and he'll come back.
He knows that would be a disgrace to a pirate, and Tom's too proud for that sort of thing.
He's up to something or other.
Now I wonder what?" "Well, the things is ours, anyway, ain't they?" "Pretty near, but not yet, Huck.
Sometimes they would take fifty or sixty eggs out of one hole.
They were perfectly round white things a trifle smaller than an English walnut.
He did not venture again until he had found it, and by that time the other boys were tired and ready to rest.
But he wrote it again, nevertheless; he could not help it.
He erased it once more and then took himself out of temptation by driving the other boys together and joining them. But Joe's spirits had gone down almost beyond resurrection.
He was so homesick that he could hardly endure the misery of it.
The tears lay very near the surface.
Tom was downhearted, but tried hard not to show it.
He had a secret which he was not ready to tell, yet, but if this mutinous depression was not broken up soon, he would have to bring it out.
He said, with a great show of cheerfulness: "I bet there's been pirates on this island before, boys.
They've hid treasures here somewhere.
How'd you feel to light on a rotten chest full of gold and silver-hey?" But it roused only faint enthusiasm, which faded out, with no reply. Tom tried one or two other seductions; but they failed, too.
Joe sat poking up the sand with a stick and looking very gloomy.
Finally he said: "Oh, boys, let's give it up.
I want to go home.
It's so lonesome." "Oh no, Joe, you'll feel better by and by," said Tom.
Just think of the fishing that's here." "I don't care for fishing.
I want to go home." "But, Joe, there ain't such another swimming-place anywhere." "Swimming's no good.
I don't seem to care for it, somehow, when there ain't anybody to say I sha'n't go in. I mean to go home." "Oh, shucks!
You want to see your mother, I reckon." "Yes, I _do_ want to see my mother-and you would, too, if you had one.
I ain't any more baby than you are.
And Joe snuffled a little. "Well, we'll let the crybaby go home to his mother, won't we, Huck?
Poor thing-does it want to see its mother?
You like it here, don't you, Huck?
We'll stay, won't we?" Huck said, "Y-e-s"-without any heart in it. "I'll never speak to you again as long as I live," said Joe, rising. "There now!
And he moved moodily away and began to dress himself. "Who cares!" said Tom.
Go 'long home and get laughed at.
Oh, you're a nice pirate.
Huck and me ain't crybabies.
We'll stay, won't we, Huck?
Let him go if he wants to.
I reckon we can get along without him, per'aps." But Tom was uneasy, nevertheless, and was alarmed to see Joe go sullenly on with his dressing.
And then it was discomforting to see Huck eying Joe's preparations so wistfully, and keeping up such an ominous silence. Presently, without a parting word, Joe began to wade off toward the Illinois shore.
Tom's heart began to sink.
Huck could not bear the look, and dropped his eyes.
Then he said: "I want to go, too, Tom.
It was getting so lonesome anyway, and now it'll be worse.
Let's us go, too, Tom." "I won't!
You can all go, if you want to.
I mean to stay." "Tom, I better go." "Well, go 'long-who's hendering you." Huck began to pick up his scattered clothes.
He said: "Tom, I wisht you'd come, too.
Now you think it over.
He hoped the boys would stop, but they still waded slowly on.
It suddenly dawned on Tom that it was become very lonely and still.
He made one final struggle with his pride, and then darted after his comrades, yelling: "Wait!
I want to tell you something!" They presently stopped and turned around.
After a dainty egg and fish dinner, Tom said he wanted to learn to smoke, now.
Joe caught at the idea and said he would like to try, too.
So Huck made pipes and filled them.
These novices had never smoked anything before but cigars made of grapevine, and they "bit" the tongue, and were not considered manly anyway. Now they stretched themselves out on their elbows and began to puff, charily, and with slender confidence.
The smoke had an unpleasant taste, and they gagged a little, but Tom said: "Why, it's just as easy!
If I'd a knowed this was all, I'd a learnt long ago." "So would I," said Joe.
It's just nothing." "Why, many a time I've looked at people smoking, and thought well I wish I could do that; but I never thought I could," said Tom. "That's just the way with me, hain't it, Huck?
You've heard me talk just that way-haven't you, Huck?
I'll leave it to Huck if I haven't." "Yes-heaps of times," said Huck. "Well, I have too," said Tom; "oh, hundreds of times.
Once down by the slaughter-house.
Bob Tanner was there, and Johnny Miller, and Jeff Thatcher, when I said it.
Don't you remember, Huck, 'bout me saying that?" "Yes, that's so," said Huck.
That was the day after I lost a white alley.
No, 'twas the day before." "There-I told you so," said Tom.
Huck recollects it." "I bleeve I could smoke this pipe all day," said Joe.
I don't feel sick." "Neither do I," said Tom.
I could smoke it all day.
But I bet you Jeff Thatcher couldn't." "Jeff Thatcher!
Why, he'd keel over just with two draws.
Just let him try it once. _He'd_ see!" "I bet he would.
And Johnny Miller-I wish could see Johnny Miller tackle it once." "Oh, don't I!" said Joe.
Why, I bet you Johnny Miller couldn't any more do this than nothing.
Just one little snifter would fetch _him_." "'Deed it would, Joe.
Say-I wish the boys could see us now." "So do I." "Say-boys, don't say anything about it, and some time when they're around, I'll come up to you and say, 'Joe, got a pipe?
I want a smoke.' And you'll say, kind of careless like, as if it warn't anything, you'll say, 'Yes, I got my _old_ pipe, and another one, but my tobacker ain't very good.
And I'll say, 'Oh, that's all right, if it's _strong_ enough.
And then you'll out with the pipes, and we'll light up just as ca'm, and then just see 'em look!" "By jings, that'll be gay, Tom!
I wish it was _now_!" "So do I!
And when we tell 'em we learned when we was off pirating, won't they wish they'd been along?" "Oh, I reckon not!
I'll just _bet_ they will!" So the talk ran on.
But presently it began to flag a trifle, and grow disjointed.
The silences widened; the expectoration marvellously increased.
Both boys were looking very pale and miserable, now.
Joe's pipe dropped from his nerveless fingers.
Both fountains were going furiously and both pumps bailing with might and main.
Joe said feebly: "I've lost my knife.
I reckon I better go and find it." Tom said, with quivering lips and halting utterance: "I'll help you.
You go over that way and I'll hunt around by the spring. No, you needn't come, Huck-we can find it." So Huck sat down again, and waited an hour.
Then he found it lonesome, and went to find his comrades.
They were wide apart in the woods, both very pale, both fast asleep.
But something informed him that if they had had any trouble they had got rid of it. They were not talkative at supper that night.
There was a brooding oppressiveness in the air that seemed to bode something.
The boys huddled themselves together and sought the friendly companionship of the fire, though the dull dead heat of the breathless atmosphere was stifling.
They sat still, intent and waiting.
The solemn hush continued. Beyond the light of the fire everything was swallowed up in the blackness of darkness.
Presently there came a quivering glow that vaguely revealed the foliage for a moment and then vanished.
By and by another came, a little stronger.
Then a faint moan came sighing through the branches of the forest and the boys felt a fleeting breath upon their cheeks, and shuddered with the fancy that the Spirit of the Night had gone by.
Now a weird flash turned night into day and showed every little grassblade, separate and distinct, that grew about their feet.
And it showed three white, startled faces, too.
A deep peal of thunder went rolling and tumbling down the heavens and lost itself in sullen rumblings in the distance.
A sweep of chilly air passed by, rustling all the leaves and snowing the flaky ashes broadcast about the fire.
Another fierce glare lit up the forest and an instant crash followed that seemed to rend the treetops right over the boys' heads.
They clung together in terror, in the thick gloom that followed.
A few big raindrops fell pattering upon the leaves. "Quick! boys, go for the tent!" exclaimed Tom. They sprang away, stumbling over roots and among vines in the dark, no two plunging in the same direction.
A furious blast roared through the trees, making everything sing as it went.
One blinding flash after another came, and peal on peal of deafening thunder.
And now a drenching rain poured down and the rising hurricane drove it in sheets along the ground.
The boys cried out to each other, but the roaring wind and the booming thunderblasts drowned their voices utterly.
However, one by one they straggled in at last and took shelter under the tent, cold, scared, and streaming with water; but to have company in misery seemed something to be grateful for.
They could not talk, the old sail flapped so furiously, even if the other noises would have allowed them.
The tempest rose higher and higher, and presently the sail tore loose from its fastenings and went winging away on the blast.
The boys seized each others' hands and fled, with many tumblings and bruises, to the shelter of a great oak that stood upon the riverbank.
Now the battle was at its highest.
Every little while some giant tree yielded the fight and fell crashing through the younger growth; and the unflagging thunderpeals came now in ear-splitting explosive bursts, keen and sharp, and unspeakably appalling.
The storm culminated in one matchless effort that seemed likely to tear the island to pieces, burn it up, drown it to the treetops, blow it away, and deafen every creature in it, all at one and the same moment.
It was a wild night for homeless young heads to be out in. But at last the battle was done, and the forces retired with weaker and weaker threatenings and grumblings, and peace resumed her sway.
Here was matter for dismay, for they were soaked through and chilled.
Then they piled on great dead boughs till they had a roaring furnace, and were gladhearted once more.
They got scorched out by and by, and drearily set about getting breakfast.
After the meal they felt rusty, and stiff-jointed, and a little homesick once more.
Tom saw the signs, and fell to cheering up the pirates as well as he could.
But they cared nothing for marbles, or circus, or swimming, or anything.
He reminded them of the imposing secret, and raised a ray of cheer.
While it lasted, he got them interested in a new device.
It was a gory day.
There was no other process that ever they had heard of.
Two of the savages almost wished they had remained pirates.
They were not likely to fool away this high promise for lack of effort.
No, they practised cautiously, after supper, with right fair success, and so they spent a jubilant evening.
They were prouder and happier in their new acquirement than they would have been in the scalping and skinning of the Six Nations.
We will leave them to smoke and chatter and brag, since we have no further use for them at present. CHAPTER XVII But there was no hilarity in the little town that same tranquil Saturday afternoon.
The Harpers, and Aunt Polly's family, were being put into mourning, with great grief and many tears.
An unusual quiet possessed the village, although it was ordinarily quiet enough, in all conscience. The villagers conducted their concerns with an absent air, and talked little; but they sighed often.
The Saturday holiday seemed a burden to the children.
They had no heart in their sports, and gradually gave them up. In the afternoon Becky Thatcher found herself moping about the deserted schoolhouse yard, and feeling very melancholy.
But she found nothing there to comfort her.
She soliloquized: "Oh, if I only had a brass andiron-knob again!
But I haven't got anything now to remember him by.
And she choked back a little sob. Presently she stopped, and said to herself: "It was right here.
Oh, if it was to do over again, I wouldn't say that-I wouldn't say it for the whole world.
But he's gone now; I'll never, never, never see him any more." This thought broke her down, and she wandered away, with tears rolling down her cheeks.
One poor chap, who had no other grandeur to offer, said with tolerably manifest pride in the remembrance: "Well, Tom Sawyer he licked me once." But that bid for glory was a failure.
Most of the boys could say that, and so that cheapened the distinction too much.
The group loitered away, still recalling memories of the lost heroes, in awed voices. When the Sunday-school hour was finished, the next morning, the bell began to toll, instead of ringing in the usual way.
It was a very still Sabbath, and the mournful sound seemed in keeping with the musing hush that lay upon nature.
The villagers began to gather, loitering a moment in the vestibule to converse in whispers about the sad event.
But there was no whispering in the house; only the funereal rustling of dresses as the women gathered to their seats disturbed the silence there.
None could remember when the little church had been so full before.
He wavered, and started to slink away, but Tom seized him and said: "Aunt Polly, it ain't fair.
Somebody's got to be glad to see Huck." "And so they shall.
I'm glad to see him, poor motherless thing!
There was an unusual amount of talk.
Say, now, would you, if you'd thought of it?" "I-well, I don't know.
Twould 'a' spoiled everything." "Tom, I hoped you loved me that much," said Aunt Polly, with a grieved tone that discomforted the boy.
And Sid would have come and _done_ it, too.
That's something, ain't it?" "It ain't much-a cat does that much-but it's better than nothing.
What did you dream?" "Why, Wednesday night I dreamt that you was sitting over there by the bed, and Sid was sitting by the woodbox, and Mary next to him." "Well, so we did.
I'm glad your dreams could take even that much trouble about us." "And I dreamt that Joe Harper's mother was here." "Why, she was here!
Did you dream any more?" "Oh, lots.
But it's so dim, now." "Well, try to recollect-can't you?" "Somehow it seems to me that the wind-the wind blowed the-the-" "Try harder, Tom!
The wind did blow something.
Come!" Tom pressed his fingers on his forehead an anxious minute, and then said: "I've got it now!
It blowed the candle!" "Mercy on us!
Go on, Tom-go on!" "And it seems to me that you said, 'Why, I believe that that door-'" "Go _on_, Tom!" "Just let me study a moment-just a moment.
Oh, yes-you said you believed the door was open." "As I'm sitting here, I did!
Go on!" "And then-and then-well I won't be certain, but it seems like as if you made Sid go and-and-" "Well?
What did I make him do, Tom?
What did I make him do?" "You made him-you-Oh, you made him shut it." "Well, for the land's sake!
I never heard the beat of that in all my days!
Don't tell _me_ there ain't anything in dreams, any more.
Sereny Harper shall know of this before I'm an hour older.
I'd like to see her get around _this_ with her rubbage 'bout superstition.
Go on, Tom!" "Oh, it's all getting just as bright as day, now.
Next you said I warn't _bad_, only mischeevous and harum-scarum, and not any more responsible than-than-I think it was a colt, or something." "And so it was!
Go on, Tom!" "And then you began to cry." "So I did.
Not the first time, neither.
And then-" "Then Mrs. Harper she began to cry, and said Joe was just the same, and she wished she hadn't whipped him for taking cream when she'd throwed it out her own self-" "Tom!
The sperrit was upon you!
You was a prophesying-that's what you was doing!
Land alive, go on, Tom!" "Then Sid he said-he said-" "I don't think I said anything," said Sid. "Yes you did, Sid," said Mary. "Shut your heads and let Tom go on!
What did he say, Tom?" "He said-I _think_ he said he hoped I was better off where I was gone to, but if I'd been better sometimes-" "_There_, d'you hear that!
It was his very words!" "And you shut him up sharp." "I lay I did!
There must 'a' been an angel there.
It happened just so, as sure as I'm a-sitting in these very tracks.
Tom, you couldn't told it more like if you'd 'a' seen it!
Go on, Tom!" "Then I thought you prayed for me-and I could see you and hear every word you said.
I just forgive you everything for that!
And she seized the boy in a crushing embrace that made him feel like the guiltiest of villains. "It was very kind, even though it was only a-dream," Sid soliloquized just audibly. "Shut up, Sid!
A body does just the same in a dream as he'd do if he was awake.
Here's a big Milum apple I've been saving for you, Tom, if you was ever found again-now go 'long to school.
Sid had better judgment than to utter the thought that was in his mind as he left the house.
It was this: "Pretty thin-as long a dream as that, without any mistakes in it!" What a hero Tom was become, now!
He did not go skipping and prancing, but moved with a dignified swagger as became a pirate who felt that the public eye was on him.
And indeed it was; he tried not to seem to see the looks or hear the remarks as he passed along, but they were food and drink to him.
Smaller boys than himself flocked at his heels, as proud to be seen with him, and tolerated by him, as if he had been the drummer at the head of a procession or the elephant leading a menagerie into town.
Boys of his own size pretended not to know he had been away at all; but they were consuming with envy, nevertheless.
They began to tell their adventures to hungry listeners-but they only began; it was not a thing likely to have an end, with imaginations like theirs to furnish material.
And finally, when they got out their pipes and went serenely puffing around, the very summit of glory was reached. Tom decided that he could be independent of Becky Thatcher now.
He would live for glory.
Now that he was distinguished, maybe she would be wanting to "make up.
Well, let her-she should see that he could be as indifferent as some other people.
Tom pretended not to see her.
He moved away and joined a group of boys and girls and began to talk.
It gratified all the vicious vanity that was in him; and so, instead of winning him, it only "set him up" the more and made him the more diligent to avoid betraying that he knew she was about.
Presently she gave over skylarking, and moved irresolutely about, sighing once or twice and glancing furtively and wistfully toward Tom.
Then she observed that now Tom was talking more particularly to Amy Lawrence than to any one else.
She felt a sharp pang and grew disturbed and uneasy at once.
She tried to go away, but her feet were treacherous, and carried her to the group instead.
She said to a girl almost at Tom's elbow-with sham vivacity: "Why, Mary Austin! you bad girl, why didn't you come to Sunday-school?" "I did come-didn't you see me?" "Why, no!
Where did you sit?" "I was in Miss Peters' class, where I always go.
I saw _you_." "Did you?
Why, it's funny I didn't see you.
I wanted to tell you about the picnic." "Oh, that's jolly.
Who's going to give it?" "My ma's going to let me have one." "Oh, goody; I hope she'll let _me_ come." "Well, she will.
She'll let anybody come that I want, and I want you." "That's ever so nice.
When is it going to be?" "By and by.
Maybe about vacation." "Oh, won't it be fun!
And Joe?" "Yes." And so on, with clapping of joyful hands till all the group had begged for invitations but Tom and Amy.
Then Tom turned coolly away, still talking, and took Amy with him.
Then she sat moody, with wounded pride, till the bell rang.
She roused up, now, with a vindictive cast in her eye, and gave her plaited tails a shake and said she knew what _she'd_ do. At recess Tom continued his flirtation with Amy with jubilant self-satisfaction.
And he kept drifting about to find Becky and lacerate her with the performance.
At last he spied her, but there was a sudden falling of his mercury.
He began to hate himself for throwing away the chance Becky had offered for a reconciliation.
He called himself a fool, and all the hard names he could think of.
He wanted to cry with vexation.
Amy chatted happily along, as they walked, for her heart was singing, but Tom's tongue had lost its function.
He did not hear what Amy was saying, and whenever she paused expectantly he could only stammer an awkward assent, which was as often misplaced as otherwise.
He kept drifting to the rear of the schoolhouse, again and again, to sear his eyeballs with the hateful spectacle there.
He could not help it.
And it maddened him to see, as he thought he saw, that Becky Thatcher never once suspected that he was even in the land of the living.
But she did see, nevertheless; and she knew she was winning her fight, too, and was glad to see him suffer as she had suffered. Amy's happy prattle became intolerable.
Tom hinted at things he had to attend to; things that must be done; and time was fleeting.
But in vain-the girl chirped on.
Tom thought, "Oh, hang her, ain't I ever going to get rid of her?
At last he must be attending to those things-and she said artlessly that she would be "around" when school let out.
And he hastened away, hating her for it. "Any other boy!
Tom thought, grating his teeth.
Any boy in the whole town but that Saint Louis smarty that thinks he dresses so fine and is aristocracy!
Oh, all right, I licked you the first day you ever saw this town, mister, and I'll lick you again!
You just wait till I catch you out!
I'll just take and-" And he went through the motions of thrashing an imaginary boy-pummelling the air, and kicking and gouging.
Oh, you do, do you?
You holler 'nough, do you?
Now, then, let that learn you!
And so the imaginary flogging was finished to his satisfaction. Tom fled home at noon.
His conscience could not endure any more of Amy's grateful happiness, and his jealousy could bear no more of the other distress.
At last she grew entirely miserable and wished she hadn't carried it so far.
When poor Alfred, seeing that he was losing her, he did not know how, kept exclaiming: "Oh, here's a jolly one! look at this!" she lost patience at last, and said, "Oh, don't bother me!
I don't care for them!" and burst into tears, and got up and walked away. Alfred dropped alongside and was going to try to comfort her, but she said: "Go away and leave me alone, can't you!
I hate you!" So the boy halted, wondering what he could have done-for she had said she would look at pictures all through the nooning-and she walked on, crying.
Then Alfred went musing into the deserted schoolhouse.
He was humiliated and angry.
Tom's spelling-book fell under his eye.
He gratefully opened to the lesson for the afternoon and poured ink upon the page. Becky, glancing in at a window behind him at the moment, saw the act, and moved on, without discovering herself.
She started homeward, now, intending to find Tom and tell him; Tom would be thankful and their troubles would be healed.
Before she was half way home, however, she had changed her mind.
Tom, I don't know what is to become of a boy that will act like that.
It makes me feel so bad to think you could let me go to Sereny Harper and make such a fool of myself and never say a word." This was a new aspect of the thing.
His smartness of the morning had seemed to Tom a good joke before, and very ingenious.
It merely looked mean and shabby now.
He hung his head and could not think of anything to say for a moment.
Then he said: "Auntie, I wish I hadn't done it-but I didn't think." "Oh, child, you never think.
You never think of anything but your own selfishness.
It only makes things a hundred times worse." "It ain't a lie, auntie; it's the truth.
I wanted to keep you from grieving-that was all that made me come." "I'd give the whole world to believe that-it would cover up a power of sins, Tom.
I'd 'most be glad you'd run off and acted so bad.
So I just put the bark back in my pocket and kept mum." "What bark?" "The bark I had wrote on to tell you we'd gone pirating.
Poor boy, I reckon he's lied about it-but it's a blessed, blessed lie, there's such a comfort come from it.
I hope the Lord-I _know_ the Lord will forgive him, because it was such good-heartedness in him to tell it.
But I don't want to find out it's a lie.
I won't look." She put the jacket away, and stood by musing a minute.
Twice she put out her hand to take the garment again, and twice she refrained.
Once more she ventured, and this time she fortified herself with the thought: "It's a good lie-it's a good lie-I won't let it grieve me.
So she sought the jacket pocket.
He started to school and had the luck of coming upon Becky Thatcher at the head of Meadow Lane.
His mood always determined his manner.
Without a moment's hesitation he ran to her and said: "I acted mighty mean today, Becky, and I'm so sorry.
I won't ever, ever do that way again, as long as ever I live-please make up, won't you?" The girl stopped and looked him scornfully in the face: "I'll thank you to keep yourself _to_ yourself, Mr. Thomas Sawyer.
I'll never speak to you again." She tossed her head and passed on.
Tom was so stunned that he had not even presence of mind enough to say "Who cares, Miss Smarty?" until the right time to say it had gone by.
But he was in a fine rage, nevertheless.
He moped into the schoolyard wishing she were a boy, and imagining how he would trounce her if she were.
He presently encountered her and delivered a stinging remark as he passed.
She hurled one in return, and the angry breach was complete.
The darling of his desires was, to be a doctor, but poverty had decreed that he should be nothing higher than a village schoolmaster.
Every day he took a mysterious book out of his desk and absorbed himself in it at times when no classes were reciting.
He kept that book under lock and key.
There was not an urchin in school but was perishing to have a glimpse of it, but the chance never came.
It was a precious moment.
She glanced around; found herself alone, and the next instant she had the book in her hands.
The titlepage-Professor Somebody's _Anatomy_-carried no information to her mind; so she began to turn the leaves.
She came at once upon a handsomely engraved and colored frontispiece-a human figure, stark naked.
At that moment a shadow fell on the page and Tom Sawyer stepped in at the door and caught a glimpse of the picture.
Becky snatched at the book to close it, and had the hard luck to tear the pictured page half down the middle.
I'll be whipped, and I never was whipped in school." Then she stamped her little foot and said: "_Be_ so mean if you want to!
I know something that's going to happen. You just wait and you'll see!
Hateful, hateful, hateful!"-and she flung out of the house with a new explosion of crying. Tom stood still, rather flustered by this onslaught.
Presently he said to himself: "What a curious kind of a fool a girl is!
Never been licked in school!
That's just like a girl-they're so thin-skinned and chicken-hearted.
Well, of course I ain't going to tell old Dobbins on this little fool, because there's other ways of getting even on her, that ain't so mean; but what of it?
Old Dobbins will ask who it was tore his book.
Then he'll do just the way he always does-ask first one and then t'other, and when he comes to the right girl he'll know it, without any telling.
Girls' faces always tell on them.
They ain't got any backbone.
Well, it's a kind of a tight place for Becky Thatcher, because there ain't any way out of it.
Tom conned the thing a moment longer, and then added: "All right, though; she'd like to see me in just such a fix-let her sweat it out!" Tom joined the mob of skylarking scholars outside.
In a few moments the master arrived and school "took in." Tom did not feel a strong interest in his studies.
Every time he stole a glance at the girls' side of the room Becky's face troubled him.
Considering all things, he did not want to pity her, and yet it was all he could do to help it.
He could get up no exultation that was really worthy the name.
Presently the spelling-book discovery was made, and Tom's mind was entirely full of his own matters for a while after that.
Becky roused up from her lethargy of distress and showed good interest in the proceedings.
She did not expect that Tom could get out of his trouble by denying that he spilt the ink on the book himself; and she was right.
The denial only seemed to make the thing worse for Tom.
Becky supposed she would be glad of that, and she tried to believe she was glad of it, but she found she was not certain.
By and by, Mr. Dobbins straightened himself up, yawned, then unlocked his desk, and reached for his book, but seemed undecided whether to take it out or leave it.
Most of the pupils glanced up languidly, but there were two among them that watched his movements with intent eyes.
Mr. Dobbins fingered his book absently for a while, then took it out and settled himself in his chair to read! Tom shot a glance at Becky.
He had seen a hunted and helpless rabbit look as she did, with a gun levelled at its head.
Instantly he forgot his quarrel with her.
Quick-something must be done! done in a flash, too!
But the very imminence of the emergency paralyzed his invention. Good!-he had an inspiration!
He would run and snatch the book, spring through the door and fly.
But his resolution shook for one little instant, and the chance was lost-the master opened the volume.
If Tom only had the wasted opportunity back again!
There was no help for Becky now, he said.
The next moment the master faced the school. Every eye sank under his gaze.
There was that in it which smote even the innocent with fear.
There was silence while one might count ten-the master was gathering his wrath.
Then he spoke: "Who tore this book?" There was not a sound.
One could have heard a pin drop.
The stillness continued; the master searched face after face for signs of guilt. "Benjamin Rogers, did you tear this book?" A denial.
Another pause. "Joseph Harper, did you?" Another denial.
Tom's uneasiness grew more and more intense under the slow torture of these proceedings.
The master scanned the ranks of boys-considered a while, then turned to the girls: "Amy Lawrence?" A shake of the head. "Gracie Miller?" The same sign. "Susan Harper, did you do this?" Another negative.
The next girl was Becky Thatcher.
He sprang to his feet and shouted-"I done it!" The school stared in perplexity at this incredible folly.
The schoolmaster, always severe, grew severer and more exacting than ever, for he wanted the school to make a good showing on "Examination" day.
His rod and his ferule were seldom idle now-at least among the smaller pupils.
Only the biggest boys, and young ladies of eighteen and twenty, escaped lashing.
Mr. Dobbins' lashings were very vigorous ones, too; for although he carried, under his wig, a perfectly bald and shiny head, he had only reached middle age, and there was no sign of feebleness in his muscle.
As the great day approached, all the tyranny that was in him came to the surface; he seemed to take a vindictive pleasure in punishing the least shortcomings.
The consequence was, that the smaller boys spent their days in terror and suffering and their nights in plotting revenge.
They threw away no opportunity to do the master a mischief.
But he kept ahead all the time.
The retribution that followed every vengeful success was so sweeping and majestic that the boys always retired from the field badly worsted.
At last they conspired together and hit upon a plan that promised a dazzling victory. They swore in the signpainter's boy, told him the scheme, and asked his help.
At eight in the evening the schoolhouse was brilliantly lighted, and adorned with wreaths and festoons of foliage and flowers.
The master sat throned in his great chair upon a raised platform, with his blackboard behind him. He was looking tolerably mellow.
Three rows of benches on each side and six rows in front of him were occupied by the dignitaries of the town and by the parents of the pupils.
All the rest of the house was filled with non-participating scholars. The exercises began.
A ghastly stage-fright seized him, his legs quaked under him and he was like to choke.
True, he had the manifest sympathy of the house but he had the house's silence, too, which was even worse than its sympathy.
The master frowned, and this completed the disaster.
Tom struggled awhile and then retired, utterly defeated.
There was a weak attempt at applause, but it died early. "The Boy Stood on the Burning Deck" followed; also "The Assyrian Came Down," and other declamatory gems.
Then there were reading exercises, and a spelling fight.
The meagre Latin class recited with honor.
The prime feature of the evening was in order, now-original "compositions" by the young ladies.
Each in her turn stepped forward to the edge of the platform, cleared her throat, held up her manuscript (tied with dainty ribbon), and proceeded to read, with labored attention to "expression" and punctuation.
The themes were the same that had been illuminated upon similar occasions by their mothers before them, their grandmothers, and doubtless all their ancestors in the female line clear back to the Crusades.
No matter what the subject might be, a brainracking effort was made to squirm it into some aspect or other that the moral and religious mind could contemplate with edification.
The glaring insincerity of these sermons was not sufficient to compass the banishment of the fashion from the schools, and it is not sufficient today; it never will be sufficient while the world stands, perhaps.
Homely truth is unpalatable. Let us return to the "Examination.
The first composition that was read was one entitled "Is this, then, Life?
Perhaps the reader can endure an extract from it: "In the common walks of life, with what delightful emotions does the youthful mind look forward to some anticipated scene of festivity! Imagination is busy sketching rose-tinted pictures of joy.
In fancy, the voluptuous votary of fashion sees herself amid the festive throng, 'the observed of all observers.
How fairy-like does everything appear to her enchanted vision!
Each new scene is more charming than the last.
There was a buzz of gratification from time to time during the reading, accompanied by whispered ejaculations of "How sweet!
So true!" etc., and after the thing had closed with a peculiarly afflicting sermon the applause was enthusiastic. Then arose a slim, melancholy girl, whose face had the "interesting" paleness that comes of pills and indigestion, and read a "poem.
Two stanzas of it will do: "A MISSOURI MAIDEN'S FAREWELL TO ALABAMA "Alabama, goodbye!
So soft was her step, it failed to make even a sound, and but for the magical thrill imparted by her genial touch, as other unobtrusive beauties, she would have glided away unperceived-unsought.
This composition was considered to be the very finest effort of the evening.
But he made a sad business of it with his unsteady hand, and a smothered titter rippled over the house.
He knew what the matter was, and set himself to right it.
He sponged out lines and remade them; but he only distorted them more than ever, and the tittering was more pronounced.
He threw his entire attention upon his work, now, as if determined not to be put down by the mirth.
He felt that all eyes were fastened upon him; he imagined he was succeeding, and yet the tittering continued; it even manifestly increased.
And how the light did blaze abroad from the master's bald pate-for the signpainter's boy had _gilded_ it! That broke up the meeting.
He promised to abstain from smoking, chewing, and profanity as long as he remained a member.
Now he found out a new thing-namely, that to promise not to do a thing is the surest way in the world to make a body want to go and do that very thing.
Sometimes his hopes ran high-so high that he would venture to get out his regalia and practise before the looking-glass.
But the Judge had a most discouraging way of fluctuating. At last he was pronounced upon the mend-and then convalescent.
Tom was disgusted; and felt a sense of injury, too.
He handed in his resignation at once-and that night the Judge suffered a relapse and died.
Tom resolved that he would never trust a man like that again. The funeral was a fine thing.
The Cadets paraded in a style calculated to kill the late member with envy.
Tom was a free boy again, however-there was something in that.
He could drink and swear, now-but found to his surprise that he did not want to.
It was a very cancer for permanency and pain. Then came the measles. During two long weeks Tom lay a prisoner, dead to the world and its happenings.
He was very ill, he was interested in nothing.
When he got upon his feet at last and moved feebly downtown, a melancholy change had come over everything and every creature.
There had been a "revival," and everybody had "got religion," not only the adults, but even the boys and girls.
Tom went about, hoping against hope for the sight of one blessed sinful face, but disappointment crossed him everywhere.
He found Joe Harper studying a Testament, and turned sadly away from the depressing spectacle.
He sought Ben Rogers, and found him visiting the poor with a basket of tracts.
He hunted up Jim Hollis, who called his attention to the precious blessing of his late measles as a warning.
The boy's first impulse was to be grateful, and reform.
His second was to wait-for there might not be any more storms. The next day the doctors were back; Tom had relapsed.
The three weeks he spent on his back this time seemed an entire age.
When he got abroad at last he was hardly grateful that he had been spared, remembering how lonely was his estate, how companionless and forlorn he was.
He drifted listlessly down the street and found Jim Hollis acting as judge in a juvenile court that was trying a cat for murder, in the presence of her victim, a bird.
He found Joe Harper and Huck Finn up an alley eating a stolen melon.
Poor lads! they-like Tom-had suffered a relapse. CHAPTER XXIII At last the sleepy atmosphere was stirred-and vigorously: the murder trial came on in the court.
It became the absorbing topic of village talk immediately.
Tom could not get away from it.
It kept him in a cold shiver all the time. He took Huck to a lonely place to have a talk with him.
It would be some relief to unseal his tongue for a little while; to divide his burden of distress with another sufferer.
Moreover, he wanted to assure himself that Huck had remained discreet. "Huck, have you ever told anybody about-that?" "'Bout what?" "You know what." "Oh-'course I haven't." "Never a word?" "Never a solitary word, so help me.
What makes you ask?" "Well, I was afeard." "Why, Tom Sawyer, we wouldn't be alive two days if that got found out. _You_ know that." Tom felt more comfortable.
After a pause: "Huck, they couldn't anybody get you to tell, could they?" "Get me to tell?
Why, if I wanted that halfbreed devil to drownd me they could get me to tell.
They ain't no different way." "Well, that's all right, then.
I reckon we're safe as long as we keep mum.
But let's swear again, anyway.
It's more surer." "I'm agreed." So they swore again with dread solemnities. "What is the talk around, Huck?
I've heard a power of it." "Talk?
Well, it's just Muff Potter, Muff Potter, Muff Potter all the time.
It keeps me in a sweat, constant, so's I want to hide som'ers." "That's just the same way they go on round me.
I reckon he's a goner. Don't you feel sorry for him, sometimes?" "Most always-most always.
He ain't no account; but then he hain't ever done anything to hurt anybody.
Just fishes a little, to get money to get drunk on-and loafs around considerable; but lord, we all do that-leastways most of us-preachers and such like.
And besides, 'twouldn't do any good; they'd ketch him again." "Yes-so they would.
But I hate to hear 'em abuse him so like the dickens when he never done-that." "I do too, Tom.
Lord, I hear 'em say he's the bloodiest looking villain in this country, and they wonder he wasn't ever hung before." "Yes, they talk like that, all the time.
I've heard 'em say that if he was to get free they'd lynch him." "And they'd do it, too." The boys had a long talk, but it brought them little comfort.
As the twilight drew on, they found themselves hanging about the neighborhood of the little isolated jail, perhaps with an undefined hope that something would happen that might clear away their difficulties.
But nothing happened; there seemed to be no angels or fairies interested in this luckless captive. The boys did as they had often done before-went to the cell grating and gave Potter some tobacco and matches.
He was on the ground floor and there were no guards. His gratitude for their gifts had always smote their consciences before-it cut deeper than ever, this time.
They felt cowardly and treacherous to the last degree when Potter said: "You've been mighty good to me, boys-better'n anybody else in this town. And I don't forget it, I don't.
Well, boys, I done an awful thing-drunk and crazy at the time-that's the only way I account for it-and now I got to swing for it, and it's right. Right, and _best_, too, I reckon-hope so, anyway.
Well, we won't talk about that.
I don't want to make _you_ feel bad; you've befriended me. But what I want to say, is, don't _you_ ever get drunk-then you won't ever get here.
Stand a litter furder west-so-that's it; it's a prime comfort to see faces that's friendly when a body's in such a muck of trouble, and there don't none come here but yourn.
Good friendly faces-good friendly faces.
Git up on one another's backs and let me touch 'em.
Shake hands-yourn'll come through the bars, but mine's too big.
They studiously avoided each other. Each wandered away, from time to time, but the same dismal fascination always brought them back presently.
Tom kept his ears open when idlers sauntered out of the courtroom, but invariably heard distressing news-the toils were closing more and more relentlessly around poor Potter.
He was in a tremendous state of excitement.
It was hours before he got to sleep.
All the village flocked to the courthouse the next morning, for this was to be the great day.
Both sexes were about equally represented in the packed audience.
There was another pause, and then the judge arrived and the sheriff proclaimed the opening of the court.
The usual whisperings among the lawyers and gathering together of papers followed.
The faces of the audience began to betray annoyance.
Did this attorney mean to throw away his client's life without an effort? Several witnesses deposed concerning Potter's guilty behavior when brought to the scene of the murder.
We rest our case here." A groan escaped from poor Potter, and he put his face in his hands and rocked his body softly to and fro, while a painful silence reigned in the courtroom.
Many men were moved, and many women's compassion testified itself in tears.
We have changed our mind.
We shall not offer that plea." [Then to the clerk:] "Call Thomas Sawyer!" A puzzled amazement awoke in every face in the house, not even excepting Potter's.
Every eye fastened itself with wondering interest upon Tom as he rose and took his place upon the stand.
The boy looked wild enough, for he was badly scared.
The oath was administered. "Thomas Sawyer, where were you on the seventeenth of June, about the hour of midnight?" Tom glanced at Injun Joe's iron face and his tongue failed him.
The audience listened breathless, but the words refused to come.
After a few moments, however, the boy got a little of his strength back, and managed to put enough of it into his voice to make part of the house hear: "In the graveyard!" "A little bit louder, please.
You were-" "In the graveyard." A contemptuous smile flitted across Injun Joe's face. "Were you anywhere near Horse Williams' grave?" "Yes, sir." "Speak up-just a trifle louder.
I went there with-" "Wait-wait a moment.
Never mind mentioning your companion's name.
We will produce him at the proper time.
Did you carry anything there with you." Tom hesitated and looked confused. "Speak out, my boy-don't be diffident.
The truth is always respectable. What did you take there?" "Only a-a-dead cat." There was a ripple of mirth, which the court checked. "We will produce the skeleton of that cat.
The strain upon pent emotion reached its climax when the boy said: "-and as the doctor fetched the board around and Muff Potter fell, Injun Joe jumped with the knife and-" Crash!
Quick as lightning the halfbreed sprang for a window, tore his way through all opposers, and was gone! CHAPTER XXIV Tom was a glittering hero once more-the pet of the old, the envy of the young.
His name even went into immortal print, for the village paper magnified him.
There were some that believed he would be President, yet, if he escaped hanging. As usual, the fickle, unreasoning world took Muff Potter to its bosom and fondled him as lavishly as it had abused him before.
But that sort of conduct is to the world's credit; therefore it is not well to find fault with it. Tom's days were days of splendor and exultation to him, but his nights were seasons of horror.
Injun Joe infested all his dreams, and always with doom in his eye.
Hardly any temptation could persuade the boy to stir abroad after nightfall.
He felt sure he never could draw a safe breath again until that man was dead and he had seen the corpse. Rewards had been offered, the country had been scoured, but no Injun Joe was found.
One of those omniscient and awe-inspiring marvels, a detective, came up from St. Louis, moused around, shook his head, looked wise, and made that sort of astounding success which members of that craft usually achieve.
That is to say, he "found a clew.
This desire suddenly came upon Tom one day.
He sallied out to find Joe Harper, but failed of success.
Next he sought Ben Rogers; he had gone fishing. Presently he stumbled upon Huck Finn the Red-Handed.
Tom took him to a private place and opened the matter to him confidentially.
Huck was always willing to take a hand in any enterprise that offered entertainment and required no capital, for he had a troublesome superabundance of that sort of time which is not money.
Where'll we dig?" said Huck. "Oh, most anywhere." "Why, is it hid all around?" "No, indeed it ain't.
Sunday-school sup'rintendents?" "I don't know.
If 'twas mine I wouldn't hide it; I'd spend it and have a good time." "So would I.
But robbers don't do that way.
They always hide it and leave it there." "Don't they come after it any more?" "No, they think they will, but they generally forget the marks, or else they die.
They always bury it under a ha'nted house or on an island, or under a dead tree that's got one limb sticking out.
No!" "Then how you going to know which one to go for?" "Go for all of 'em!" "Why, Tom, it'll take all summer." "Well, what of that?
Suppose you find a brass pot with a hundred dollars in it, all rusty and gray, or rotten chest full of di'monds.
How's that?" Huck's eyes glowed. "That's bully.
Plenty bully enough for me.
Just you gimme the hundred dollars and I don't want no di'monds." "All right.
But I bet you I ain't going to throw off on di'monds.
Some of 'em's worth twenty dollars apiece-there ain't any, hardly, but's worth six bits or a dollar." "No!
Is that so?" "Cert'nly-anybody'll tell you so.
Hain't you ever seen one, Huck?" "Not as I remember." "Oh, kings have slathers of them." "Well, I don' know no kings, Tom." "I reckon you don't.
But if you was to go to Europe you'd see a raft of 'em hopping around." "Do they hop?" "Hop?-your granny!
Like that old humpbacked Richard." "Richard?
What's his other name?" "He didn't have any other name.
Kings don't have any but a given name." "No?" "But they don't." "Well, if they like it, Tom, all right; but I don't want to be a king and have only just a given name, like a nigger.
But say-where you going to dig first?" "Well, I don't know.
S'pose we tackle that old dead-limb tree on the hill t'other side of Still-House branch?" "I'm agreed." So they got a crippled pick and a shovel, and set out on their three-mile tramp.
I bet I'll have a gay time." "Well, ain't you going to save any of it?" "Save it?
What for?" "Why, so as to have something to live on, by and by." "Oh, that ain't any use.
Pap would come back to thish-yer town some day and get his claws on it if I didn't hurry up, and I tell you he'd clean it out pretty quick.
Look at pap and my mother.
Why, they used to fight all the time.
I remember, mighty well." "That ain't anything.
The girl I'm going to marry won't fight." "Tom, I reckon they're all alike.
They'll all comb a body.
Now you better think 'bout this awhile.
I tell you you better.
What's the name of the gal?" "It ain't a gal at all-it's a girl." "It's all the same, I reckon; some says gal, some says girl-both's right, like enough.
Anyway, what's her name, Tom?" "I'll tell you some time-not now." "All right-that'll do.
Only if you get married I'll be more lonesomer than ever." "No you won't.
You'll come and live with me.
Now stir out of this and we'll go to digging." They worked and sweated for half an hour.
Huck said: "Do they always bury it as deep as this?" "Sometimes-not always.
I reckon we haven't got the right place." So they chose a new spot and began again.
The labor dragged a little, but still they made progress.
But won't the widow take it away from us, Tom?
It's on her land." "_She_ take it away!
Maybe she'd like to try it once.
Whoever finds one of these hid treasures, it belongs to him.
It don't make any difference whose land it's on." That was satisfactory.
By and by Huck said: "Blame it, we must be in the wrong place again.
What do you think?" "It is mighty curious, Huck.
I reckon maybe that's what's the trouble now." "Shucks!
Witches ain't got no power in the daytime." "Well, that's so.
I didn't think of that.
Oh, I know what the matter is! What a blamed lot of fools we are!
You got to find out where the shadow of the limb falls at midnight, and that's where you dig!" "Then consound it, we've fooled away all this work for nothing.
Now hang it all, we got to come back in the night.
It's an awful long way.
Can you get out?" "I bet I will.
We've got to do it tonight, too, because if somebody sees these holes they'll know in a minute what's here and they'll go for it." "Well, I'll come around and maow tonight." "All right.
Let's hide the tools in the bushes." The boys were there that night, about the appointed time.
They sat in the shadow waiting.
It was a lonely place, and an hour made solemn by old traditions.
Spirits whispered in the rustling leaves, ghosts lurked in the murky nooks, the deep baying of a hound floated up out of the distance, an owl answered with his sepulchral note.
The boys were subdued by these solemnities, and talked little.
By and by they judged that twelve had come; they marked where the shadow fell, and began to dig.
Their hopes commenced to rise.
Their interest grew stronger, and their industry kept pace with it.
The hole deepened and still deepened, but every time their hearts jumped to hear the pick strike upon something, they only suffered a new disappointment.
It was only a stone or a chunk.
At last Tom said: "It ain't any use, Huck, we're wrong again." "Well, but we _can't_ be wrong.
We spotted the shadder to a dot." "I know it, but then there's another thing." "What's that?" "Why, we only guessed at the time.
Like enough it was too late or too early." Huck dropped his shovel. "That's it," said he.
We got to give this one up.
We can't ever tell the right time, and besides this kind of thing's too awful, here this time of night with witches and ghosts a-fluttering around so.
I feel as if something's behind me all the time; and I'm afeard to turn around, becuz maybe there's others in front a-waiting for a chance.
I been creeping all over, ever since I got here." "Well, I've been pretty much so, too, Huck.
They most always put in a dead man when they bury a treasure under a tree, to look out for it." "Lordy!" "Yes, they do.
I've always heard that." "Tom, I don't like to fool around much where there's dead people.
A body's bound to get into trouble with 'em, sure." "I don't like to stir 'em up, either.
S'pose this one here was to stick his skull out and say something!" "Don't Tom!
It's awful." "Well, it just is.
Huck, I don't feel comfortable a bit." "Say, Tom, let's give this place up, and try somewheres else." "All right, I reckon we better." "What'll it be?" Tom considered awhile; and then said: "The ha'nted house.
That's it!" "Blame it, I don't like ha'nted houses, Tom.
Why, they're a dern sight worse'n dead people.
Dead people might talk, maybe, but they don't come sliding around in a shroud, when you ain't noticing, and peep over your shoulder all of a sudden and grit their teeth, the way a ghost does.
I couldn't stand such a thing as that, Tom-nobody could." "Yes, but, Huck, ghosts don't travel around only at night.
They won't hender us from digging there in the daytime." "Well, that's so.
It stands to reason. Becuz you know that they don't anybody but ghosts use 'em." "Yes, that's so.
But anyway they don't come around in the daytime, so what's the use of our being afeard?" "Well, all right.
We'll tackle the ha'nted house if you say so-but I reckon it's taking chances." They had started down the hill by this time.
I never once thought of it, Huck!" "Well, I didn't neither, but all at once it popped onto me that it was Friday." "Blame it, a body can't be too careful, Huck.
We might 'a' got into an awful scrape, tackling such a thing on a Friday." "_Might_!
There's some lucky days, maybe, but Friday ain't." "Any fool knows that.
I don't reckon _you_ was the first that found it out, Huck." "Well, I never said I was, did I?
And Friday ain't all, neither.
I had a rotten bad dream last night-dreampt about rats." "No!
Did they fight?" "No." "Well, that's good, Huck.
When they don't fight it's only a sign that there's trouble around, you know.
All we got to do is to look mighty sharp and keep out of it.
We'll drop this thing for today, and play.
Do you know Robin Hood, Huck?" "No. Who's Robin Hood?" "Why, he was one of the greatest men that was ever in England-and the best.
He was a robber." "Cracky, I wisht I was.
Who did he rob?" "Only sheriffs and bishops and rich people and kings, and such like.
But he never bothered the poor.
He always divided up with 'em perfectly square." "Well, he must 'a' been a brick." "I bet you he was, Huck.
Oh, he was the noblest man that ever was. They ain't any such men now, I can tell you.
He could lick any man in England, with one hand tied behind him; and he could take his yew bow and plug a ten-cent piece every time, a mile and a half." "What's a _yew_ bow?" "I don't know.
It's some kind of a bow, of course.
And if he hit that dime only on the edge he would set down and cry-and curse.
But we'll play Robin Hood-it's nobby fun.
I'll learn you." "I'm agreed." So they played Robin Hood all the afternoon, now and then casting a yearning eye down upon the haunted house and passing a remark about the morrow's prospects and possibilities there.
They saw a weedgrown, floorless room, unplastered, an ancient fireplace, vacant windows, a ruinous staircase; and here, there, and everywhere hung ragged and abandoned cobwebs.
Next they wanted to look upstairs. This was something like cutting off retreat, but they got to daring each other, and of course there could be but one result-they threw their tools into a corner and made the ascent.
Up there were the same signs of decay.
In one corner they found a closet that promised mystery, but the promise was a fraud-there was nothing in it.
Their courage was up now and well in hand.
They were about to go down and begin work when- "Sh!" said Tom. "What is it?" whispered Huck, blanching with fright. "Sh!...
They're coming right toward the door." The boys stretched themselves upon the floor with their eyes to knotholes in the planking, and lay waiting, in a misery of fear. "They've stopped....
Don't whisper another word, Huck.
My goodness, I wish I was out of this!" Two men entered.
Each boy said to himself: "There's the old deaf and dumb Spaniard that's been about town once or twice lately-never saw t'other man before." "T'other" was a ragged, unkempt creature, with nothing very pleasant in his face.
The Spaniard was wrapped in a serape; he had bushy white whiskers; long white hair flowed from under his sombrero, and he wore green goggles.
When they came in, "t'other" was talking in a low voice; they sat down on the ground, facing the door, with their backs to the wall, and the speaker continued his remarks.
His manner became less guarded and his words more distinct as he proceeded: "No," said he, "I've thought it all over, and I don't like it.
It's dangerous." "Dangerous!" grunted the "deaf and dumb" Spaniard-to the vast surprise of the boys.
Milksop!" This voice made the boys gasp and quake.
There was silence for some time.
Then Joe said: "What's any more dangerous than that job up yonder-but nothing's come of it." "That's different.
But there warn't any other place as handy after that fool of a job.
I want to quit this shanty.
They wished in their hearts they had waited a year. The two men got out some food and made a luncheon.
After a long and thoughtful silence, Injun Joe said: "Look here, lad-you go back up the river where you belong.
Wait there till you hear from me.
I'll take the chances on dropping into this town just once more, for a look.
We'll do that 'dangerous' job after I've spied around a little and think things look well for it.
Then for Texas! We'll leg it together!" This was satisfactory.
Both men presently fell to yawning, and Injun Joe said: "I'm dead for sleep!
It's your turn to watch." He curled down in the weeds and soon began to snore.
His comrade stirred him once or twice and he became quiet.
Presently the watcher began to nod; his head drooped lower and lower, both men began to snore now. The boys drew a long, grateful breath.
Tom whispered: "Now's our chance-come!" Huck said: "I can't-I'd die if they was to wake." Tom urged-Huck held back.
At last Tom rose slowly and softly, and started alone.
But the first step he made wrung such a hideous creak from the crazy floor that he sank down almost dead with fright.
He never made a second attempt.
The boys lay there counting the dragging moments till it seemed to them that time must be done and eternity growing gray; and then they were grateful to note that at last the sun was setting. Now one snore ceased.
Injun Joe sat up, stared around-smiled grimly upon his comrade, whose head was drooping upon his knees-stirred him up with his foot and said: "Here! _You're_ a watchman, ain't you!
All right, though-nothing's happened." "My! have I been asleep?" "Oh, partly, partly.
Nearly time for us to be moving, pard.
What'll we do with what little swag we've got left?" "I don't know-leave it here as we've always done, I reckon.
No use to take it away till we start south.
With gloating eyes they watched every movement.
Luck!-the splendor of it was beyond all imagination!
Six hundred dollars was money enough to make half a dozen boys rich!
Here was treasure-hunting under the happiest auspices-there would not be any bothersome uncertainty as to where to dig.
Here-bear a hand and we'll see what it's here for.
Never mind, I've broke a hole." He reached his hand in and drew it out- "Man, it's money!" The two men examined the handful of coins.
The boys above were as excited as themselves, and as delighted. Joe's comrade said: "We'll make quick work of this.
There's an old rusty pick over amongst the weeds in the corner the other side of the fireplace-I saw it a minute ago." He ran and brought the boys' pick and shovel.
Injun Joe took the pick, looked it over critically, shook his head, muttered something to himself, and then began to use it.
The box was soon unearthed.
It was not very large; it was iron bound and had been very strong before the slow years had injured it.
Said he: "You don't know me.
Least you don't know all about that thing.
Tain't robbery altogether-it's _revenge_!" and a wicked light flamed in his eyes.
I'll need your help in it.
That pick had fresh earth on it! [The boys were sick with terror in a moment.] What business has a pick and a shovel here?
What business with fresh earth on them?
Who brought them here-and where are they gone?
Have you heard anybody?-seen anybody?
What! bury it again and leave them to come and see the ground disturbed?
We'll take it to my den." "Why, of course!
Might have thought of that before.
You mean Number One?" "No-Number Two-under the cross.
The other place is bad-too common." "All right.
It's nearly dark enough to start." Injun Joe got up and went about from window to window cautiously peeping out.
Presently he said: "Who could have brought those tools here?
Do you reckon they can be upstairs?" The boys' breath forsook them.
Injun Joe put his hand on his knife, halted a moment, undecided, and then turned toward the stairway.
The boys thought of the closet, but their strength was gone.
He gathered himself up cursing, and his comrade said: "Now what's the use of all that?
If it's anybody, and they're up there, let them _stay_ there-who cares?
If they want to jump down, now, and get into trouble, who objects?
It will be dark in fifteen minutes-and then let them follow us if they want to.
In my opinion, whoever hove those things in here caught a sight of us and took us for ghosts or devils or something.
They were content to reach ground again without broken necks, and take the townward track over the hill.
They did not talk much.
They were too much absorbed in hating themselves-hating the ill luck that made them take the spade and the pick there.
But for that, Injun Joe never would have suspected.
He would have hidden the silver with the gold to wait there till his "revenge" was satisfied, and then he would have had the misfortune to find that money turn up missing.
Then a ghastly thought occurred to Tom. "Revenge?
As he lay in the early morning recalling the incidents of his great adventure, he noticed that they seemed curiously subdued and far away-somewhat as if they had happened in another world, or in a time long gone by.
Then it occurred to him that the great adventure itself must be a dream!
There was one very strong argument in favor of this idea-namely, that the quantity of coin he had seen was too vast to be real.
He never had supposed for a moment that so large a sum as a hundred dollars was to be found in actual money in any one's possession.
This uncertainty must be swept away.
He would snatch a hurried breakfast and go and find Huck. Huck was sitting on the gunwale of a flatboat, listlessly dangling his feet in the water and looking very melancholy.
Tom concluded to let Huck lead up to the subject.
Oh, ain't it awful!" "'Tain't a dream, then, 'tain't a dream!
Somehow I most wish it was. Dog'd if I don't, Huck." "What ain't a dream?" "Oh, that thing yesterday.
I been half thinking it was." "Dream!
If them stairs hadn't broke down you'd 'a' seen how much dream it was!
I've had dreams enough all night-with that patch-eyed Spanish devil going for me all through 'em-rot him!" "No, not rot him. _Find_ him!
Track the money!" "Tom, we'll never find him.
A feller don't have only one chance for such a pile-and that one's lost.
I'd feel mighty shaky if I was to see him, anyway." "Well, so'd I; but I'd like to see him, anyway-and track him out-to his Number Two." "Number Two-yes, that's it.
I been thinking 'bout that.
But I can't make nothing out of it.
What do you reckon it is?" "I dono.
Say, Huck-maybe it's the number of a house!" "Goody!...
No, Tom, that ain't it.
If it is, it ain't in this one-horse town.
They ain't no numbers here." "Well, that's so.
Here-it's the number of a room-in a tavern, you know!" "Oh, that's the trick!
They ain't only two taverns.
We can find out quick." "You stay here, Huck, till I come." Tom was off at once.
He did not care to have Huck's company in public places.
He was gone half an hour.
He found that in the best tavern, No. 2 had long been occupied by a young lawyer, and was still so occupied. In the less ostentatious house, No. 2 was a mystery.
I reckon that's the very No. 2 we're after." "I reckon it is, Tom.
Now what you going to do?" "Lemme think." Tom thought a long time.
Then he said: "I'll tell you.
The back door of that No. 2 is the door that comes out into that little close alley between the tavern and the old rattle trap of a brick store.
Now you get hold of all the doorkeys you can find, and I'll nip all of auntie's, and the first dark night we'll go there and try 'em.
And mind you, keep a lookout for Injun Joe, because he said he was going to drop into town and spy around once more for a chance to get his revenge.
If you see him, you just follow him; and if he don't go to that No. 2, that ain't the place." "Lordy, I don't want to foller him by myself!" "Why, it'll be night, sure.
He mightn't ever see you-and if he did, maybe he'd never think anything." "Well, if it's pretty dark I reckon I'll track him.
I'll try." "You bet I'll follow him, if it's dark, Huck.
Why, he might 'a' found out he couldn't get his revenge, and be going right after that money." "It's so, Tom, it's so.
I'll foller him; I will, by jingoes!" "Now you're _talking_!
Don't you ever weaken, Huck, and I won't." CHAPTER XXVIII That night Tom and Huck were ready for their adventure.
They hung about the neighborhood of the tavern until after nine, one watching the alley at a distance and the other the tavern door.
Nobody entered the alley or left it; nobody resembling the Spaniard entered or left the tavern door.
But Thursday night promised better.
Tom slipped out in good season with his aunt's old tin lantern, and a large towel to blindfold it with.
He hid the lantern in Huck's sugar hogshead and the watch began.
An hour before midnight the tavern closed up and its lights (the only ones thereabouts) were put out.
No Spaniard had been seen.
Nobody had entered or left the alley.
Then there was a season of waiting anxiety that weighed upon Huck's spirits like a mountain.
He began to wish he could see a flash from the lantern-it would frighten him, but it would at least tell him that Tom was alive yet.
It seemed hours since Tom had disappeared.
Surely he must have fainted; maybe he was dead; maybe his heart had burst under terror and excitement.
In his uneasiness Huck found himself drawing closer and closer to the alley; fearing all sorts of dreadful things, and momentarily expecting some catastrophe to happen that would take away his breath.
There was not much to take away, for he seemed only able to inhale it by thimblefuls, and his heart would soon wear itself out, the way it was beating.
The boys never stopped till they reached the shed of a deserted slaughter-house at the lower end of the village.
Just as they got within its shelter the storm burst and the rain poured down.
As soon as Tom got his breath he said: "Huck, it was awful!
I tried two of the keys, just as soft as I could; but they seemed to make such a power of racket that I couldn't hardly get my breath I was so scared.
They wouldn't turn in the lock, either. Well, without noticing what I was doing, I took hold of the knob, and open comes the door!
I hopped in, and shook off the towel, and, _Great Caesar's Ghost!_" "What!-what'd you see, Tom?" "Huck, I most stepped onto Injun Joe's hand!" "No!" "Yes!
He was lying there, sound asleep on the floor, with his old patch on his eye and his arms spread out." "Lordy, what did you do?
Did he wake up?" "No, never budged.
I just grabbed that towel and started!" "I'd never 'a' thought of the towel, I bet!" "Well, I would.
My aunt would make me mighty sick if I lost it." "Say, Tom, did you see that box?" "Huck, I didn't wait to look around.
I didn't see the box, I didn't see the cross.
Maybe _all_ the Temperance Taverns have got a ha'nted room, hey, Huck?" "Well, I reckon maybe that's so.
Who'd 'a' thought such a thing?
But say, Tom, now's a mighty good time to get that box, if Injun Joe's drunk." "It is, that!
You try it!" Huck shuddered. "Well, no-I reckon not." "And I reckon not, Huck.
Only one bottle alongside of Injun Joe ain't enough.
If there'd been three, he'd be drunk enough and I'd do it." There was a long pause for reflection, and then Tom said: "Lookyhere, Huck, less not try that thing any more till we know Injun Joe's not in there.
Now, if we watch every night, we'll be dead sure to see him go out, some time or other, and then we'll snatch that box quicker'n lightning." "Well, I'm agreed.
I'll watch the whole night long, and I'll do it every night, too, if you'll do the other part of the job." "All right, I will.
It'll begin to be daylight in a couple of hours.
You go back and watch that long, will you?" "I said I would, Tom, and I will.
I'll ha'nt that tavern every night for a year!
I'll sleep all day and I'll stand watch all night." "That's all right.
Now, where you going to sleep?" "In Ben Rogers' hayloft.
He lets me, and so does his pap's nigger man, Uncle Jake.
I tote water for Uncle Jake whenever he wants me to, and any time I ask him he gives me a little something to eat if he can spare it. That's a mighty good nigger, Tom.
He likes me, becuz I don't ever act as if I was above him.
Sometime I've set right down and eat _with_ him.
But you needn't tell that.
A body's got to do things when he's awful hungry he wouldn't want to do as a steady thing." "Well, if I don't want you in the daytime, I'll let you sleep.
I won't come bothering around.
He saw her and they had an exhausting good time playing "hispy" and "gully-keeper" with a crowd of their schoolmates.
The day was completed and crowned in a peculiarly satisfactory way: Becky teased her mother to appoint the next day for the long-promised and long-delayed picnic, and she consented.
The child's delight was boundless; and Tom's not more moderate.
The invitations were sent out before sunset, and straightway the young folks of the village were thrown into a fever of preparation and pleasurable anticipation.
Tom's excitement enabled him to keep awake until a pretty late hour, and he had good hopes of hearing Huck's "maow," and of having his treasure to astonish Becky and the picnickers with, next day; but he was disappointed.
No signal came that night. Morning came, eventually, and by ten or eleven o'clock a giddy and rollicking company were gathered at Judge Thatcher's, and everything was ready for a start.
It was not the custom for elderly people to mar the picnics with their presence.
The children were considered safe enough under the wings of a few young ladies of eighteen and a few young gentlemen of twenty-three or thereabouts.
The old steam ferry-boat was chartered for the occasion; presently the gay throng filed up the main street laden with provision-baskets.
Sid was sick and had to miss the fun; Mary remained at home to entertain him.
The last thing Mrs. Thatcher said to Becky, was: "You'll not get back till late.
Perhaps you'd better stay all night with some of the girls that live near the ferry-landing, child." "Then I'll stay with Susy Harper, mamma." "Very well.
And mind and behave yourself and don't be any trouble." Presently, as they tripped along, Tom said to Becky: "Say-I'll tell you what we'll do.
Stead of going to Joe Harper's we'll climb right up the hill and stop at the Widow Douglas'.
She has it most every day-dead loads of it.
Your mother won't know, and so what's the harm?
All she wants is that you'll be safe; and I bet you she'd 'a' said go there if she'd 'a' thought of it.
I know she would!" The Widow Douglas' splendid hospitality was a tempting bait.
It and Tom's persuasions presently carried the day.
So it was decided to say nothing to anybody about the night's programme.
Presently it occurred to Tom that maybe Huck might come this very night and give the signal.
The thought took a deal of the spirit out of his anticipations.
Still he could not bear to give up the fun at Widow Douglas'.
And why should he give it up, he reasoned-the signal did not come the night before, so why should it be any more likely to come tonight?
The crowd swarmed ashore and soon the forest distances and craggy heights echoed far and near with shoutings and laughter.
All the different ways of getting hot and tired were gone through with, and by-and-by the rovers straggled back to camp fortified with responsible appetites, and then the destruction of the good things began.
After the feast there was a refreshing season of rest and chat in the shade of spreading oaks.
By-and-by somebody shouted: "Who's ready for the cave?" Everybody was.
Bundles of candles were procured, and straightway there was a general scamper up the hill.
The mouth of the cave was up the hillside-an opening shaped like a letter A.
Its massive oaken door stood unbarred.
Within was a small chamber, chilly as an icehouse, and walled by Nature with solid limestone that was dewy with a cold sweat.
It was romantic and mysterious to stand here in the deep gloom and look out upon the green valley shining in the sun. But the impressiveness of the situation quickly wore off, and the romping began again.
But all things have an end.
By-and-by the procession went filing down the steep descent of the main avenue, the flickering rank of lights dimly revealing the lofty walls of rock almost to their point of junction sixty feet overhead.
This main avenue was not more than eight or ten feet wide.
Every few steps other lofty and still narrower crevices branched from it on either hand-for McDougal's cave was but a vast labyrinth of crooked aisles that ran into each other and out again and led nowhere.
No man "knew" the cave.
That was an impossible thing.
Most of the young men knew a portion of it, and it was not customary to venture much beyond this known portion.
Then they were astonished to find that they had been taking no note of time and that night was about at hand.
The clanging bell had been calling for half an hour.
However, this sort of close to the day's adventures was romantic and therefore satisfactory.
When the ferryboat with her wild freight pushed into the stream, nobody cared sixpence for the wasted time but the captain of the craft. Huck was already upon his watch when the ferryboat's lights went glinting past the wharf.
He heard no noise on board, for the young people were as subdued and still as people usually are who are nearly tired to death.
He wondered what boat it was, and why she did not stop at the wharf-and then he dropped her out of his mind and put his attention upon his business.
The night was growing cloudy and dark.
Ten o'clock came, and the noise of vehicles ceased, scattered lights began to wink out, all straggling foot-passengers disappeared, the village betook itself to its slumbers and left the small watcher alone with the silence and the ghosts.
Eleven o'clock came, and the tavern lights were put out; darkness everywhere, now.
Huck waited what seemed a weary long time, but nothing happened.
Was there any use? Was there really any use?
Why not give it up and turn in? A noise fell upon his ear.
He was all attention in an instant.
The alley door closed softly.
He sprang to the corner of the brick store.
The next moment two men brushed by him, and one seemed to have something under his arm.
It must be that box!
So they were going to remove the treasure. Why call Tom now?
It would be absurd-the men would get away with the box and never be found again.
No, he would stick to their wake and follow them; he would trust to the darkness for security from discovery.
They went straight ahead, then, until they came to the path that led up Cardiff Hill; this they took.
They passed by the old Welshman's house, halfway up the hill, without hesitating, and still climbed upward.
Good, thought Huck, they will bury it in the old quarry. But they never stopped at the quarry.
They passed on, up the summit. They plunged into the narrow path between the tall sumach bushes, and were at once hidden in the gloom.
Huck closed up and shortened his distance, now, for they would never be able to see him.
He trotted along awhile; then slackened his pace, fearing he was gaining too fast; moved on a piece, then stopped altogether; listened; no sound; none, save that he seemed to hear the beating of his own heart.
The hooting of an owl came over the hill-ominous sound!
He was about to spring with winged feet, when a man cleared his throat not four feet from him!
He knew where he was.
He knew he was within five steps of the stile leading into Widow Douglas' grounds.
A deadly chill went to Huck's heart-this, then, was the "revenge" job!
His thought was, to fly.
Then he remembered that the Widow Douglas had been kind to him more than once, and maybe these men were going to murder her.
He wished he dared venture to warn her; but he knew he didn't dare-they might come and catch him.
He thought all this and more in the moment that elapsed between the stranger's remark and Injun Joe's next-which was- "Because the bush is in your way.
Now-this way-now you see, don't you?" "Yes.
Well, there _is_ company there, I reckon.
Better give it up." "Give it up, and I just leaving this country forever!
Give it up and maybe never have another chance.
I tell you again, as I've told you before, I don't care for her swag-you may have it.
But her husband was rough on me-many times he was rough on me-and mainly he was the justice of the peace that jugged me for a vagrant.
It ain't a millionth part of it!
He had me _horsewhipped_!-horsewhipped in front of the jail, like a nigger!-with all the town looking on! _Horsewhipped_!-do you understand?
He took advantage of me and died.
But I'll take it out of _her_." "Oh, don't kill her!
Who said anything about killing?
I would kill _him_ if he was here; but not her.
When you want to get revenge on a woman you don't kill her-bosh! you go for her looks.
You slit her nostrils-you notch her ears like a sow!" "By God, that's-" "Keep your opinion to yourself!
It will be safest for you.
I'll tie her to the bed.
If she bleeds to death, is that my fault?
I'll not cry, if she does.
My friend, you'll help me in this thing-for _my_ sake-that's why you're here-I mightn't be able alone.
If you flinch, I'll kill you. Do you understand that?
And if I have to kill you, I'll kill her-and then I reckon nobody'll ever know much about who done this business." "Well, if it's got to be done, let's get at it.
The quicker the better-I'm all in a shiver." "Do it _now_?
Look here-I'll get suspicious of you, first thing you know.
He took another step back, with the same elaboration and the same risks; then another and another, and-a twig snapped under his foot!
His breath stopped and he listened.
There was no sound-the stillness was perfect.
Now he turned in his tracks, between the walls of sumach bushes-turned himself as carefully as if he were a ship-and then stepped quickly but cautiously along.
When he emerged at the quarry he felt secure, and so he picked up his nimble heels and flew.
Down, down he sped, till he reached the Welshman's.
He banged at the door, and presently the heads of the old man and his two stalwart sons were thrust from windows. "What's the row there?
What do you want?" "Let me in-quick!
I'll tell everything." "Why, who are you?" "Huckleberry Finn-quick, let me in!" "Huckleberry Finn, indeed!
Huck accompanied them no further.
He hid behind a great bowlder and fell to listening.
There was a lagging, anxious silence, and then all of a sudden there was an explosion of firearms and a cry. Huck waited for no particulars.
The inmates were asleep, but it was a sleep that was set on a hair-trigger, on account of the exciting episode of the night.
A call came from a window: "Who's there!" Huck's scared voice answered in a low tone: "Please let me in!
It's only Huck Finn!" "It's a name that can open this door night or day, lad!-and welcome!" These were strange words to the vagabond boy's ears, and the pleasantest he had ever heard.
He could not recollect that the closing word had ever been applied in his case before.
The door was quickly unlocked, and he entered.
I and the boys hoped you'd turn up and stop here last night." "I was awful scared," said Huck, "and I run.
I took out when the pistols went off, and I didn't stop for three mile.
No, they ain't dead, lad-we are sorry enough for that.
It was the meanest kind of luck!
I tried to keep it back, but no use-'twas bound to come, and it did come!
I was in the lead with my pistol raised, and when the sneeze started those scoundrels a-rustling to get out of the path, I sung out, 'Fire boys!' and blazed away at the place where the rustling was.
But they were off in a jiffy, those villains, and we after them, down through the woods.
I judge we never touched them. They fired a shot apiece as they started, but their bullets whizzed by and didn't do us any harm.
As soon as we lost the sound of their feet we quit chasing, and went down and stirred up the constables.
They got a posse together, and went off to guard the river bank, and as soon as it is light the sheriff and a gang are going to beat up the woods.
My boys will be with them presently.
I wish we had some sort of description of those rascals-'twould help a good deal.
But you couldn't see what they were like, in the dark, lad, I suppose?" "Oh yes; I saw them downtown and follered them." "Splendid!
Describe them-describe them, my boy!" "One's the old deaf and dumb Spaniard that's ben around here once or twice, and t'other's a mean-looking, ragged-" "That's enough, lad, we know the men!
Happened on them in the woods back of the widow's one day, and they slunk away.
Off with you, boys, and tell the sheriff-get your breakfast tomorrow morning!" The Welshman's sons departed at once.
As they were leaving the room Huck sprang up and exclaimed: "Oh, please don't tell _any_body it was me that blowed on them!
Oh, please!" "All right if you say it, Huck, but you ought to have the credit of what you did." "Oh no, no!
Please don't tell!" When the young men were gone, the old Welshman said: "They won't tell-and I won't.
Were they looking suspicious?" Huck was silent while he framed a duly cautious reply.
That was the way of it last night.
I couldn't sleep, and so I come along upstreet 'bout midnight, a-turning it all over, and when I got to that old shackly brick store by the Temperance Tavern, I backed up agin the wall to have another think.
Well, just then along comes these two chaps slipping along close by me, with something under their arm, and I reckoned they'd stole it.
Then he said: "Well, I don't know-but somehow it seems as if I did." "Then they went on, and you-" "Follered 'em-yes.
I wanted to see what was up-they sneaked along so.
I dogged 'em to the widder's stile, and stood in the dark and heard the ragged one beg for the widder, and the Spaniard swear he'd spile her looks just as I told you and your two-" "What!
The _deaf and dumb_ man said all that!" Huck had made another terrible mistake!
He was trying his best to keep the old man from getting the faintest hint of who the Spaniard might be, and yet his tongue seemed determined to get him into trouble in spite of all he could do.
He made several efforts to creep out of his scrape, but the old man's eye was upon him and he made blunder after blunder. Presently the Welshman said: "My boy, don't be afraid of me.
I wouldn't hurt a hair of your head for all the world.
No-I'd protect you-I'd protect you.
This Spaniard is not deaf and dumb; you've let that slip without intending it; you can't cover that up now.
You know something about that Spaniard that you want to keep dark.
In a moment he said: "It's all plain enough, now.
When you talked about notching ears and slitting noses I judged that that was your own embellishment, because white men don't take that sort of revenge.
They found none, but captured a bulky bundle of- "Of _what_?" If the words had been lightning they could not have leaped with a more stunning suddenness from Huck's blanched lips.
His eyes were staring wide, now, and his breath suspended-waiting for the answer.
The Welshman started-stared in return-three seconds-five seconds-ten-then replied: "Of burglar's tools.
Why, what's the _matter_ with you?" Huck sank back, panting gently, but deeply, unutterably grateful.
The Welshman eyed him gravely, curiously-and presently said: "Yes, burglar's tools.
That appears to relieve you a good deal.
But what did give you that turn?
Then he added: "Poor old chap, you're white and jaded-you ain't well a bit-no wonder you're a little flighty and off your balance.
He had only thought it was not the treasure, however-he had not known that it wasn't-and so the suggestion of a captured bundle was too much for his self-possession.
But on the whole he felt glad the little episode had happened, for now he knew beyond all question that that bundle was not _the_ bundle, and so his mind was at rest and exceedingly comfortable.
Huck jumped for a hiding-place, for he had no mind to be connected even remotely with the late event.
The Welshman admitted several ladies and gentlemen, among them the Widow Douglas, and noticed that groups of citizens were climbing up the hill-to stare at the stile.
So the news had spread.
The Welshman had to tell the story of the night to the visitors.
The widow's gratitude for her preservation was outspoken. "Don't say a word about it, madam.
There's another that you're more beholden to than you are to me and my boys, maybe, but he don't allow me to tell his name.
When all else had been learned, the widow said: "I went to sleep reading in bed and slept straight through all that noise.
Why didn't you come and wake me?" "We judged it warn't worth while.
Those fellows warn't likely to come again-they hadn't any tools left to work with, and what was the use of waking you up and scaring you to death?
My three negro men stood guard at your house all the rest of the night.
They've just come back." More visitors came, and the story had to be told and retold for a couple of hours more. There was no Sabbath-school during day-school vacation, but everybody was early at church.
The stirring event was well canvassed.
News came that not a sign of the two villains had been yet discovered.
When the sermon was finished, Judge Thatcher's wife dropped alongside of Mrs. Harper as she moved down the aisle with the crowd and said: "Is my Becky going to sleep all day?
Aunt Polly said: "Goodmorning, Mrs. Thatcher.
I've got a boy that's turned up missing.
I reckon my Tom stayed at your house last night-one of you.
And now he's afraid to come to church.
I've got to settle with him." Mrs. Thatcher shook her head feebly and turned paler than ever. "He didn't stay with us," said Mrs. Harper, beginning to look uneasy.
A marked anxiety came into Aunt Polly's face. "Joe Harper, have you seen my Tom this morning?" "No'm." "When did you see him last?" Joe tried to remember, but was not sure he could say.
The people had stopped moving out of church.
Whispers passed along, and a boding uneasiness took possession of every countenance.
Children were anxiously questioned, and young teachers.
They all said they had not noticed whether Tom and Becky were on board the ferryboat on the homeward trip; it was dark; no one thought of inquiring if any one was missing.
One young man finally blurted out his fear that they were still in the cave! Mrs. Thatcher swooned away.
Aunt Polly fell to crying and wringing her hands. The alarm swept from lip to lip, from group to group, from street to street, and within five minutes the bells were wildly clanging and the whole town was up!
Many women visited Aunt Polly and Mrs. Thatcher and tried to comfort them.
They cried with them, too, and that was still better than words.
All the tedious night the town waited for news; but when the morning dawned at last, all the word that came was, "Send more candles-and send food." Mrs. Thatcher was almost crazed; and Aunt Polly, also.
Judge Thatcher sent messages of hope and encouragement from the cave, but they conveyed no real cheer. The old Welshman came home toward daylight, spattered with candle-grease, smeared with clay, and almost worn out.
He found Huck still in the bed that had been provided for him, and delirious with fever.
The physicians were all at the cave, so the Widow Douglas came and took charge of the patient.
She said she would do her best by him, because, whether he was good, bad, or indifferent, he was the Lord's, and nothing that was the Lord's was a thing to be neglected.
The Welshman said Huck had good spots in him, and the widow said: "You can depend on it.
He don't leave it off. He never does.
Puts it somewhere on every creature that comes from his hands." Early in the forenoon parties of jaded men began to straggle into the village, but the strongest of the citizens continued searching.
In one place, far from the section usually traversed by tourists, the names "BECKY & TOM" had been found traced upon the rocky wall with candle-smoke, and near at hand a grease-soiled bit of ribbon.
Mrs. Thatcher recognized the ribbon and cried over it.
She said it was the last relic she should ever have of her child; and that no other memorial of her could ever be so precious, because this one parted latest from the living body before the awful death came.
No one had heart for anything. The accidental discovery, just made, that the proprietor of the Temperance Tavern kept liquor on his premises, scarcely fluttered the public pulse, tremendous as the fact was.
What was it?" "Liquor!-and the place has been shut up.
Lie down, child-what a turn you did give me!" "Only tell me just one thing-only just one-please!
Was it Tom Sawyer that found it?" The widow burst into tears.
I've told you before, you must _not_ talk.
You are very, very sick!" Then nothing but liquor had been found; there would have been a great powwow if it had been the gold.
So the treasure was gone forever-gone forever!
But what could she be crying about?
Curious that she should cry. These thoughts worked their dim way through Huck's mind, and under the weariness they gave him he fell asleep.
The widow said to herself: "There-he's asleep, poor wreck.
Pity but somebody could find Tom Sawyer!
Ah, there ain't many left, now, that's got hope enough, or strength enough, either, to go on searching." CHAPTER XXXI Now to return to Tom and Becky's share in the picnic.
They tripped along the murky aisles with the rest of the company, visiting the familiar wonders of the cave-wonders dubbed with rather over-descriptive names, such as "The Drawing-Room," "The Cathedral," "Aladdin's Palace," and so on.
Still drifting along and talking, they scarcely noticed that they were now in a part of the cave whose walls were not frescoed.
They smoked their own names under an overhanging shelf and moved on.
Presently they came to a place where a little stream of water, trickling over a ledge and carrying a limestone sediment with it, had, in the slow-dragging ages, formed a laced and ruffled Niagara in gleaming and imperishable stone.
Tom squeezed his small body behind it in order to illuminate it for Becky's gratification.
They wound this way and that, far down into the secret depths of the cave, made another mark, and branched off in search of novelties to tell the upper world about.
Under the roof vast knots of bats had packed themselves together, thousands in a bunch; the lights disturbed the creatures and they came flocking down by hundreds, squeaking and darting furiously at the candles.
Tom knew their ways and the danger of this sort of conduct.
He seized Becky's hand and hurried her into the first corridor that offered; and none too soon, for a bat struck Becky's light out with its wing while she was passing out of the cavern.
The bats chased the children a good distance; but the fugitives plunged into every new passage that offered, and at last got rid of the perilous things.
Tom found a subterranean lake, shortly, which stretched its dim length away until its shape was lost in the shadows.
He wanted to explore its borders, but concluded that it would be best to sit down and rest awhile, first.
Now, for the first time, the deep stillness of the place laid a clammy hand upon the spirits of the children.
We couldn't hear them here." Becky grew apprehensive. "I wonder how long we've been down here, Tom?
We better start back." "Yes, I reckon we better.
P'raps we better." "Can you find the way, Tom?
It's all a mixed-up crookedness to me." "I reckon I could find it-but then the bats.
If they put our candles out it will be an awful fix.
Let's try some other way, so as not to go through there." "Well.
But I hope we won't get lost.
Every time Tom made an examination, Becky would watch his face for an encouraging sign, and he would say cheerily: "Oh, it's all right.
He still said it was "all right," but there was such a leaden dread at his heart that the words had lost their ring and sounded just as if he had said, "All is lost!
Becky clung to his side in an anguish of fear, and tried hard to keep back the tears, but they would come.
At last she said: "Oh, Tom, never mind the bats, let's go back that way!
We seem to get worse and worse off all the time." "Listen!" said he. Profound silence; silence so deep that even their breathings were conspicuous in the hush.
The children stood still and listened; but there was no result.
Tom turned upon the back track at once, and hurried his steps.
It was but a little while before a certain indecision in his manner revealed another fearful fact to Becky-he could not find his way back! "Oh, Tom, you didn't make any marks!" "Becky, I was such a fool!
I never thought we might want to come back!
No-I can't find the way.
It's all mixed up." "Tom, Tom, we're lost! we're lost!
We never can get out of this awful place!
Oh, why _did_ we ever leave the others!" She sank to the ground and burst into such a frenzy of crying that Tom was appalled with the idea that she might die, or lose her reason.
He sat down by her and put his arms around her; she buried her face in his bosom, she clung to him, she poured out her terrors, her unavailing regrets, and the far echoes turned them all to jeering laughter.
Tom begged her to pluck up hope again, and she said she could not.
He fell to blaming and abusing himself for getting her into this miserable situation; this had a better effect.
She said she would try to hope again, she would get up and follow wherever he might lead if only he would not talk like that any more.
For he was no more to blame than she, she said. So they moved on again-aimlessly-simply at random-all they could do was to move, keep moving.
This economy meant so much!
She sat down. Tom rested with her, and they talked of home, and the friends there, and the comfortable beds and, above all, the light!
Becky cried, and Tom tried to think of some way of comforting her, but all his encouragements were grown thread-bare with use, and sounded like sarcasms.
Fatigue bore so heavily upon Becky that she drowsed off to sleep.
Tom was grateful. He sat looking into her drawn face and saw it grow smooth and natural under the influence of pleasant dreams; and by-and-by a smile dawned and rested there.
The peaceful face reflected somewhat of peace and healing into his own spirit, and his thoughts wandered away to bygone times and dreamy memories.
While he was deep in his musings, Becky woke up with a breezy little laugh-but it was stricken dead upon her lips, and a groan followed it. "Oh, how _could_ I sleep!
I wish I never, never had waked!
I won't say it again." "I'm glad you've slept, Becky; you'll feel rested, now, and we'll find the way out." "We can try, Tom; but I've seen such a beautiful country in my dream.
I reckon we are going there." "Maybe not, maybe not.
Cheer up, Becky, and let's go on trying." They rose up and wandered along, hand in hand and hopeless.
They tried to estimate how long they had been in the cave, but all they knew was that it seemed days and weeks, and yet it was plain that this could not be, for their candles were not gone yet.
A long time after this-they could not tell how long-Tom said they must go softly and listen for dripping water-they must find a spring.
They found one presently, and Tom said it was time to rest again.
Both were cruelly tired, yet Becky said she thought she could go a little farther.
She was surprised to hear Tom dissent.
She could not understand it.
They sat down, and Tom fastened his candle to the wall in front of them with some clay.
Thought was soon busy; nothing was said for some time.
Tom divided the cake and Becky ate with good appetite, while Tom nibbled at his moiety.
There was abundance of cold water to finish the feast with.
By-and-by Becky suggested that they move on again.
Tom was silent a moment.
Tom did what he could to comfort her, but with little effect.
At length Becky said: "Tom!" "Well, Becky?" "They'll miss us and hunt for us!" "Yes, they will!
Certainly they will!" "Maybe they're hunting for us now, Tom." "Why, I reckon maybe they are.
I hope they are." "When would they miss us, Tom?" "When they get back to the boat, I reckon." "Tom, it might be dark then-would they notice we hadn't come?" "I don't know.
But anyway, your mother would miss you as soon as they got home." A frightened look in Becky's face brought Tom to his senses and he saw that he had made a blunder.
Becky was not to have gone home that night! The children became silent and thoughtful.
All that they knew was, that after what seemed a mighty stretch of time, both awoke out of a dead stupor of sleep and resumed their miseries once more.
Tom said it might be Sunday, now-maybe Monday.
He tried to get Becky to talk, but her sorrows were too oppressive, all her hopes were gone.
Tom said that they must have been missed long ago, and no doubt the search was going on.
He would shout and maybe some one would come.
He tried it; but in the darkness the distant echoes sounded so hideously that he tried it no more. The hours wasted away, and hunger came to torment the captives again.
A portion of Tom's half of the cake was left; they divided and ate it.
But they seemed hungrier than before.
The poor morsel of food only whetted desire. By-and-by Tom said: "SH!
Did you hear that?" Both held their breath and listened.
There was a sound like the faintest, far-off shout.
Instantly Tom answered it, and leading Becky by the hand, started groping down the corridor in its direction.
Presently he listened again; again the sound was heard, and apparently a little nearer. "It's them!" said Tom; "they're coming!
Come along, Becky-we're all right now!" The joy of the prisoners was almost overwhelming.
Their speed was slow, however, because pitfalls were somewhat common, and had to be guarded against.
They shortly came to one and had to stop.
It might be three feet deep, it might be a hundred-there was no passing it at any rate. Tom got down on his breast and reached as far down as he could.
They must stay there and wait until the searchers came.
They listened; evidently the distant shoutings were growing more distant! a moment or two more and they had gone altogether.
The heart-sinking misery of it!
Tom whooped until he was hoarse, but it was of no use.
He talked hopefully to Becky; but an age of anxious waiting passed and no sounds came again. The children groped their way back to the spring.
The weary time dragged on; they slept again, and awoke famished and woe-stricken.
Tom believed it must be Tuesday by this time. Now an idea struck him.
There were some side passages near at hand.
It would be better to explore some of these than bear the weight of the heavy time in idleness.
He took a kite-line from his pocket, tied it to a projection, and he and Becky started, Tom in the lead, unwinding the line as he groped along.
At the end of twenty steps the corridor ended in a "jumping-off place.
Tom lifted up a glorious shout, and instantly that hand was followed by the body it belonged to-Injun Joe's!
Tom was paralyzed; he could not move.
He was vastly gratified the next moment, to see the "Spaniard" take to his heels and get himself out of sight.
Tom wondered that Joe had not recognized his voice and come over and killed him for testifying in court.
But the echoes must have disguised the voice.
Without doubt, that was it, he reasoned.
Tom's fright weakened every muscle in his body.
He said to himself that if he had strength enough to get back to the spring he would stay there, and nothing should tempt him to run the risk of meeting Injun Joe again.
He was careful to keep from Becky what it was he had seen.
He told her he had only shouted "for luck." But hunger and wretchedness rise superior to fears in the long run. Another tedious wait at the spring and another long sleep brought changes.
The children awoke tortured with a raging hunger.
Tom believed that it must be Wednesday or Thursday or even Friday or Saturday, now, and that the search had been given over.
He proposed to explore another passage.
He felt willing to risk Injun Joe and all other terrors.
But Becky was very weak.
She had sunk into a dreary apathy and would not be roused.
She said she would wait, now, where she was, and die-it would not be long.
The village of St. Petersburg still mourned.
The lost children had not been found.
Public prayers had been offered up for them, and many and many a private prayer that had the petitioner's whole heart in it; but still no good news came from the cave.
The majority of the searchers had given up the quest and gone back to their daily avocations, saying that it was plain the children could never be found.
Mrs. Thatcher was very ill, and a great part of the time delirious.
People said it was heartbreaking to hear her call her child, and raise her head and listen a whole minute at a time, then lay it wearily down again with a moan.
Aunt Polly had drooped into a settled melancholy, and her gray hair had grown almost white.
It would be complete, however, as soon as the messenger dispatched with the great news to the cave should get the word to her husband.
He told how he went back for Becky and broke the good news and she told him not to fret her with such stuff, for she was tired, and knew she was going to die, and wanted to.
They were bedridden all of Wednesday and Thursday, and seemed to grow more and more tired and worn, all the time.
The Widow Douglas stayed by to see that he obeyed.
Judge Thatcher's house was on Tom's way, and he stopped to see Becky.
The Judge and some friends set Tom to talking, and some one asked him ironically if he wouldn't like to go to the cave again.
Tom said he thought he wouldn't mind it.
The Judge said: "Well, there are others just like you, Tom, I've not the least doubt. But we have taken care of that.
Nobody will get lost in that cave any more." "Why?" "Because I had its big door sheathed with boiler iron two weeks ago, and triple-locked-and I've got the keys." Tom turned as white as a sheet. "What's the matter, boy!
Fetch a glass of water!" The water was brought and thrown into Tom's face. "Ah, now you're all right.
Tom Sawyer was in the skiff that bore Judge Thatcher. When the cave door was unlocked, a sorrowful sight presented itself in the dim twilight of the place.
Tom was touched, for he knew by his own experience how this wretch had suffered.
But if there had been no stony obstruction there the labor would have been useless still, for if the beam had been wholly cut away Injun Joe could not have squeezed his body under the door, and he knew it.
So he had only hacked that place in order to be doing something-in order to pass the weary time-in order to employ his tortured faculties.
Ordinarily one could find half a dozen bits of candle stuck around in the crevices of this vestibule, left there by tourists; but there were none now.
The prisoner had searched them out and eaten them.
He had also contrived to catch a few bats, and these, also, he had eaten, leaving only their claws.
The poor unfortunate had starved to death.
In one place, near at hand, a stalagmite had been slowly growing up from the ground for ages, builded by the water-drip from a stalactite overhead.
Has everything a purpose and a mission?
Did this drop fall patiently during five thousand years to be ready for this flitting human insect's need? and has it another important object to accomplish ten thousand years to come?
Injun Joe was believed to have killed five citizens of the village, but what of that?
He said: "I know what it is.
You got into No. 2 and never found anything but whiskey.
Tom, something's always told me we'd never get holt of that swag." "Why, Huck, I never told on that tavern-keeper. _You_ know his tavern was all right the Saturday I went to the picnic.
Don't you remember you was to watch there that night?" "Oh yes!
Why, it seems 'bout a year ago.
It was that very night that I follered Injun Joe to the widder's." "_You_ followed him?" "Yes-but you keep mum.
I reckon Injun Joe's left friends behind him, and I don't want 'em souring on me and doing me mean tricks.
Huck searched his comrade's face keenly.
Will you go in there with me and help get it out?" "I bet I will!
I will if it's where we can blaze our way to it and not get lost." "Huck, we can do that without the least little bit of trouble in the world." "Good as wheat!
What makes you think the money's-" "Huck, you just wait till we get in there.
If we don't find it I'll agree to give you my drum and every thing I've got in the world.
I will, by jings." "All right-it's a whiz.
When do you say?" "Right now, if you say it.
Are you strong enough?" "Is it far in the cave?
Huck, I'll take you right to it in a skiff.
I'll float the skiff down there, and I'll pull it back again all by myself.
You needn't ever turn your hand over." "Less start right off, Tom." "All right.
We want some bread and meat, and our pipes, and a little bag or two, and two or three kite-strings, and some of these new-fangled things they call lucifer matches.
I tell you, many's the time I wished I had some when I was in there before." A trifle after noon the boys borrowed a small skiff from a citizen who was absent, and got under way at once.
When they were several miles below "Cave Hollow," Tom said: "Now you see this bluff here looks all alike all the way down from the cave hollow-no houses, no wood-yards, bushes all alike.
But do you see that white place up yonder where there's been a landslide?
Well, that's one of my marks.
We'll get ashore, now." They landed. "Now, Huck, where we're a-standing you could touch that hole I got out of with a fishing-pole.
See if you can find it." Huck searched all the place about, and found nothing.
Tom proudly marched into a thick clump of sumach bushes and said: "Here you are!
Look at it, Huck; it's the snuggest hole in this country. You just keep mum about it.
All along I've been wanting to be a robber, but I knew I'd got to have a thing like this, and where to run across it was the bother.
We've got it now, and we'll keep it quiet, only we'll let Joe Harper and Ben Rogers in-because of course there's got to be a Gang, or else there wouldn't be any style about it.
Tom Sawyer's Gang-it sounds splendid, don't it, Huck?" "Well, it just does, Tom.
And who'll we rob?" "Oh, most anybody.
Waylay people-that's mostly the way." "And kill them?" "No, not always.
Hive them in the cave till they raise a ransom." "What's a ransom?" "Money.
You make them raise all they can, off'n their friends; and after you've kept them a year, if it ain't raised then you kill them.
Only you don't kill the women.
You shut up the women, but you don't kill them.
They're always beautiful and rich, and awfully scared.
You take their watches and things, but you always take your hat off and talk polite.
They ain't anybody as polite as robbers-you'll see that in any book.
Well, the women get to loving you, and after they've been in the cave a week or two weeks they stop crying and after that you couldn't get them to leave.
If you drove them out they'd turn right around and come back.
It's so in all the books." "Why, it's real bully, Tom.
I believe it's better'n to be a pirate." "Yes, it's better in some ways, because it's close to home and circuses and all that." By this time everything was ready and the boys entered the hole, Tom in the lead.
They toiled their way to the farther end of the tunnel, then made their spliced kite-strings fast and moved on.
They went on, and presently entered and followed Tom's other corridor until they reached the "jumping-off place.
The candles revealed the fact that it was not really a precipice, but only a steep clay hill twenty or thirty feet high.
Tom whispered: "Now I'll show you something, Huck." He held his candle aloft and said: "Look as far around the corner as you can.
There-on the big rock over yonder-done with candle-smoke." "Tom, it's a _cross_!" "_Now_ where's your Number Two? '_under the cross_,' hey?
Right yonder's where I saw Injun Joe poke up his candle, Huck!" Huck stared at the mystic sign awhile, and then said with a shaky voice: "Tom, less git out of here!" "What! and leave the treasure?" "Yes-leave it.
Injun Joe's ghost is round about there, certain." "No it ain't, Huck, no it ain't.
It would ha'nt the place where he died-away out at the mouth of the cave-five mile from here." "No, Tom, it wouldn't.
It would hang round the money.
I know the ways of ghosts, and so do you." Tom began to fear that Huck was right.
Misgivings gathered in his mind. But presently an idea occurred to him- "Lookyhere, Huck, what fools we're making of ourselves!
Injun Joe's ghost ain't a going to come around where there's a cross!" The point was well taken.
It had its effect. "Tom, I didn't think of that.
It's luck for us, that cross is.
I reckon we'll climb down there and have a hunt for that box." Tom went first, cutting rude steps in the clay hill as he descended. Huck followed.
But there was no moneybox.
The lads searched and researched this place, but in vain.
Tom said: "He said _under_ the cross.
Well, this comes nearest to being under the cross.
It can't be under the rock itself, because that sets solid on the ground." They searched everywhere once more, and then sat down discouraged.
By-and-by Tom said: "Lookyhere, Huck, there's footprints and some candle-grease on the clay about one side of this rock, but not on the other sides.
I bet you the money _is_ under the rock.
Some boards were soon uncovered and removed.
They had concealed a natural chasm which led under the rock. Tom got into this and held his candle as far under the rock as he could, but said he could not see to the end of the rift.
He stooped and passed under; the narrow way descended gradually.
He followed its winding course, first to the right, then to the left, Huck at his heels.
My, but we're rich, Tom!" "Huck, I always reckoned we'd get it.
It's just too good to believe, but we _have_ got it, sure!
Say-let's not fool around here.
Lemme see if I can lift the box." It weighed about fifty pounds.
Tom could lift it, after an awkward fashion, but could not carry it conveniently. "I thought so," he said; "_They_ carried it like it was heavy, that day at the ha'nted house.
They're just the tricks to have when we go to robbing.
We'll keep them there all the time, and we'll hold our orgies there, too.
It's an awful snug place for orgies." "What orgies?" "I dono.
But robbers always have orgies, and of course we've got to have them, too.
Come along, Huck, we've been in here a long time.
It's getting late, I reckon.
We'll eat and smoke when we get to the skiff." They presently emerged into the clump of sumach bushes, looked warily out, found the coast clear, and were soon lunching and smoking in the skiff.
As the sun dipped toward the horizon they pushed out and got under way.
When the boys reached the Welshman's house, they stopped to rest.
Just as they were about to move on, the Welshman stepped out and said: "Hallo, who's that?" "Huck and Tom Sawyer." "Good!
Come along with me, boys, you are keeping everybody waiting. Here-hurry up, trot ahead-I'll haul the wagon for you.
Why, it's not as light as it might be.
I don't know about that.
Ain't you and the widow good friends?" "Yes.
Well, she's ben good friends to me, anyway." "All right, then.
The Thatchers were there, the Harpers, the Rogerses, Aunt Polly, Sid, Mary, the minister, the editor, and a great many more, and all dressed in their best.
The widow received the boys as heartily as any one could well receive two such looking beings.
They were covered with clay and candle-grease.
Aunt Polly blushed crimson with humiliation, and frowned and shook her head at Tom.
Nobody suffered half as much as the two boys did, however.
Come with me, boys." She took them to a bedchamber and said: "Now wash and dress yourselves.
Here are two new suits of clothes-shirts, socks, everything complete.
They're Huck's-no, no thanks, Huck-Mr. Jones bought one and I the other.
But they'll fit both of you.
We'll wait-come down when you are slicked up enough." Then she left. CHAPTER XXXIV Huck said: "Tom, we can slope, if we can find a rope.
The window ain't high from the ground." "Shucks! what do you want to slope for?" "Well, I ain't used to that kind of a crowd.
I ain't going down there, Tom." "Oh, bother!
I don't mind it a bit.
I'll take care of you." Sid appeared. "Tom," said he, "auntie has been waiting for you all the afternoon.
Mary got your Sunday clothes ready, and everybody's been fretting about you. Say-ain't this grease and clay, on your clothes?" "Now, Mr. Siddy, you jist 'tend to your own business.
What's all this blowout about, anyway?" "It's one of the widow's parties that she's always having.
This time it's for the Welshman and his sons, on account of that scrape they helped her out of the other night.
Everybody knows-the widow, too, for all she tries to let on she don't.
Mr. Jones was bound Huck should be here-couldn't get along with his grand secret without Huck, you know!" "Secret about what, Sid?" "About Huck tracking the robbers to the widow's.
If you had been in Huck's place you'd 'a' sneaked down the hill and never told anybody on the robbers.
You can't do any but mean things, and you can't bear to see anybody praised for doing good ones. There-no thanks, as the widow says"-and Tom cuffed Sid's ears and helped him to the door with several kicks.
He said: "Huck don't need it.
Huck's rich." Nothing but a heavy strain upon the good manners of the company kept back the due and proper complimentary laugh at this pleasant joke.
But the silence was a little awkward.
Tom broke it: "Huck's got money.
Maybe you don't believe it, but he's got lots of it. Oh, you needn't smile-I reckon I can show you.
You just wait a minute." Tom ran out of doors.
The company looked at each other with a perplexed interest-and inquiringly at Huck, who was tongue-tied. "Sid, what ails Tom?" said Aunt Polly.
He-well, there ain't ever any making of that boy out.
I never-" Tom entered, struggling with the weight of his sacks, and Aunt Polly did not finish her sentence.
Tom poured the mass of yellow coin upon the table and said: "There-what did I tell you?
Half of it's Huck's and half of it's mine!" The spectacle took the general breath away.
All gazed, nobody spoke for a moment.
Then there was a unanimous call for an explanation.
Tom said he could furnish it, and he did.
The tale was long, but brimful of interest.
There was scarcely an interruption from any one to break the charm of its flow.
When he had finished, Mr. Jones said: "I thought I had fixed up a little surprise for this occasion, but it don't amount to anything now.
This one makes it sing mighty small, I'm willing to allow." The money was counted.
The sum amounted to a little over twelve thousand dollars.
So vast a sum, all in actual cash, seemed next to incredible.
It was talked about, gloated over, glorified, until the reason of many of the citizens tottered under the strain of the unhealthy excitement.
Every "haunted" house in St. Petersburg and the neighboring villages was dissected, plank by plank, and its foundations dug up and ransacked for hidden treasure-and not by boys, but men-pretty grave, unromantic men, too, some of them.
Wherever Tom and Huck appeared they were courted, admired, stared at.
The village paper published biographical sketches of the boys. The Widow Douglas put Huck's money out at six per cent., and Judge Thatcher did the same with Tom's at Aunt Polly's request.
Each lad had an income, now, that was simply prodigious-a dollar for every weekday in the year and half of the Sundays.
It was just what the minister got-no, it was what he was promised-he generally couldn't collect it.
A dollar and a quarter a week would board, lodge, and school a boy in those old simple days-and clothe him and wash him, too, for that matter. Judge Thatcher had conceived a great opinion of Tom.
He said that no commonplace boy would ever have got his daughter out of the cave.
Becky thought her father had never looked so tall and so superb as when he walked the floor and stamped his foot and said that.
She went straight off and told Tom about it. Judge Thatcher hoped to see Tom a great lawyer or a great soldier some day.
The widow's servants kept him clean and neat, combed and brushed, and they bedded him nightly in unsympathetic sheets that had not one little spot or stain which he could press to his heart and know for a friend.
For forty-eight hours the widow hunted for him everywhere in great distress.
The public were profoundly concerned; they searched high and low, they dragged the river for his body.
He was unkempt, uncombed, and clad in the same old ruin of rags that had made him picturesque in the days when he was free and happy.
Tom routed him out, told him the trouble he had been causing, and urged him to go home. Huck's face lost its tranquil content, and took a melancholy cast.
He said: "Don't talk about it, Tom.
I've tried it, and it don't work; it don't work, Tom.
It ain't for me; I ain't used to it.
The widder's good to me, and friendly; but I can't stand them ways.
I can't ketch a fly in there, I can't chaw.
I got to wear shoes all Sunday.
The widder eats by a bell; she goes to bed by a bell; she gits up by a bell-everything's so awful reg'lar a body can't stand it." "Well, everybody does that way, Huck." "Tom, it don't make no difference.
I ain't everybody, and I can't _stand_ it.
It's awful to be tied up so.
And grub comes too easy-I don't take no interest in vittles, that way.
I got to ask to go a-fishing; I got to ask to go in a-swimming-dern'd if I hain't got to ask to do everything.
Well, I'd got to talk so nice it wasn't no comfort-I'd got to go up in the attic and rip out awhile, every day, to git a taste in my mouth, or I'd a died, Tom.
The widder wouldn't let me smoke; she wouldn't let me yell, she wouldn't let me gape, nor stretch, nor scratch, before folks-" [Then with a spasm of special irritation and injury]-"And dad fetch it, she prayed all the time!
I never see such a woman!
I _had_ to shove, Tom-I just had to.
And besides, that school's going to open, and I'd a had to go to it-well, I wouldn't stand _that_, Tom.
Looky-here, Tom, being rich ain't what it's cracked up to be.
It's just worry and worry, and sweat and sweat, and a-wishing you was dead all the time.
Now these clothes suits me, and this bar'l suits me, and I ain't ever going to shake 'em any more.
Tain't fair; and besides if you'll try this thing just a while longer you'll come to like it." "Like it!
Yes-the way I'd like a hot stove if I was to set on it long enough.
No, Tom, I won't be rich, and I won't live in them cussed smothery houses.
I like the woods, and the river, and hogsheads, and I'll stick to 'em, too.
Oh, good-licks; are you in real dead-wood earnest, Tom?" "Just as dead earnest as I'm sitting here.
But Huck, we can't let you into the gang if you ain't respectable, you know." Huck's joy was quenched. "Can't let me in, Tom?
Didn't you let me go for a pirate?" "Yes, but that's different.
A robber is more high-toned than what a pirate is-as a general thing.
In most countries they're awful high up in the nobility-dukes and such." "Now, Tom, hain't you always ben friendly to me?
You wouldn't shet me out, would you, Tom?
You wouldn't do that, now, _would_ you, Tom?" "Huck, I wouldn't want to, and I _don't_ want to-but what would people say?
Tom Sawyer's Gang! pretty low characters in it!
You wouldn't like that, and I wouldn't." Huck was silent for some time, engaged in a mental struggle.
Finally he said: "Well, I'll go back to the widder for a month and tackle it and see if I can come to stand it, if you'll let me b'long to the gang, Tom." "All right, Huck, it's a whiz!
Come along, old chap, and I'll ask the widow to let up on you a little, Huck." "Will you, Tom-now will you?
If she'll let up on some of the roughest things, I'll smoke private and cuss private, and crowd through or bust.
When you going to start the gang and turn robbers?" "Oh, right off.
And all that swearing's got to be done at midnight, in the lonesomest, awfulest place you can find-a ha'nted house is the best, but they're all ripped up now." "Well, midnight's good, anyway, Tom." "Yes, so it is.
And you've got to swear on a coffin, and sign it with blood." "Now, that's something _like_!
Why, it's a million times bullier than pirating.
It being strictly a history of a _boy_, it must stop here; the story could not go much further without becoming the history of a _man_.
Box 6022 St. Charles, IL 60174, U.S.A. 1 <title> E-MAIL 101 If you like those little machines that give you 24 hour access to your bank account, you'll love the Internet.
I suppose there are still people who, given a choice, will go to a drive-through teller just so they can deal with a "live person" instead of a machine.
But even those people will admit that it is nice to have the option of doing things for yourself, on your own schedule, anywhere.
Do you remember what it was like before automatic tellers?
Banks closed at 3 p.m. on weekdays. Each Saturday you had to guess how much money you would need for the following week.
If you were wrong you had to cash a check at a food store (and maybe buy something you didn't want).
And if you were out of town?
Well, there were always credit cards. We don't do that anymore.
I think many people go to the automatic teller because they like the privacy of handling their own business without having to explain it all to someone else.
With a home computer, a modem, and communications software, you can connect to other computers over the phone line to exchange electronic mail (E-mail), trade files, or search for information.
Many of those computers are connected to the worldwide network called the Internet.
Some few of them will--for a fee--let *you* connect to the Internet.
Your children will find it as common as viewing television or using the telephone.
It still has a few rough edges--but we'll explain those. There is actually no single network owned by one company called the Internet.
Instead, many medium-sized networks have grown together to create a "phone system" that connects together nearly a million computers.
Many hundreds of these computers allow some form of public access.
There are more expensive ways to connect to the Internet, of course.
These ways make sense for businesses or organizations that make heavy use of the network.
But in this course we will discuss methods that cost in the $10-$40/month range.
These methods are suitable for exploring the net after hours and for casual use.
You have to learn methods for transferring information from the remote computer to your own.
This is a complex task that may involve using a file transfer protocol and compression techniques. Because the information world is so vast, your biggest problem will most likely not be connecting to the Internet.
It will be finding what you want.
Thus, this course covers not only the mechanics of making a connection and transferring files, but techniques for locating material as well.
And of course you will want to be savvy about the costs of different connection methods.
Computer Hints for the *Really* Green Appendix B.
Using a Modem *Appendix C.
Technical Details of an Internet Connection Appendix D.
Just Enough UNIX Appendix E.
The Ten Best Things To Get If You Only Have E-Mail <Chapter 1> The Past and Future of Internetworking There is an old fashioned way to connect with other computers and share information and there is a modern way.
Bulletin board services grew up in the late 70s as a method for sharing software, talking, playing games, etc. with a personal computer.
They range in size from small special interest Bulletin Boards with a local following to giant national boards like CompuServe, GEnie, and The Source.
You access a bulletin board with a modem and communication software by dialing a telephone number.
Of course, if you don't live in the local area of the BBS you have to use a long distance carrier.
The savings in terms of the "learning curve" is staggering.
Once you know how to use anonymous FTP you know how to get information from *hundreds* of providers.
It is like the difference between using the postal service or using a special courier for each person you write a letter to.
Once you know how to address the envelope and put the stamp on, you can write anyone. The Internet has the added savings that any communications software you buy for it works with all providers.
You do not have to buy (or customize) special software for each information provider.
Thus you can use one familiar graphical user interface ("windows" program) to connect with any computer.
The usual situation where you have to buy a special "client" program to connect to each kind of "server" is replaced with a situation in which you have a single program that any "server" out there has to comply with.
This standardization is the main advantage of using the Internet. Bulletin Boards are still around.
In fact, one of the easiest ways to connect to the Internet is through a national bulletin board service. One disadvantage of this method is that--as of this writing--national BBS's like CompuServe offer only E-mail.
You can't FTP or Telnet from them.
And they often charge per message for E-mail, so using them can be quite expensive.
There are better ways. <Chapter 2> What is the Internet? The best way to think of the Internet is as a communications medium like the Telephone, Television, or the Postal Service.
Using the Internet you can send a any written text by E-mail.
This is rather like mailing a letter and having it arrive in seconds--three days in the most backwards parts of the world.
Using a special protocol called File Transfer Protocol you can transfer text files that are too long to mail (over about 50 pages) or even transfer graphics and programs.
If E-mail is the equivalent of "talking" to a person, then Telnet, the third main Internet service, is equivalent to telephoning a computer.
As long as you know the password for logging on to a computer, you can access and search any of nearly a million computers.
Details of E-mail, FTP, and Telnet are contained in Chapter 5, Internet Basics. This chapter puts the Internet into context.
Rather than concentrating on the trees that will occupy us in later chapters, it paints a big picture of the computing world in which the Internet has evolved.
When you pick up a telephone receiver you know you can dial households, businesses, or government offices.
You can dial 800 numbers or 411 for information.
You know how to get the time or weather, get your credit card balance, or leave a message on an answering machine.
In short, you have a good idea of what might possibly be at the other end of the line and a great deal of experience with negotiating their various intricacies.
But you are new to the Internet.
The LAN (pronounced like "land" without the "d") may be connected to other LANs as part of a Wide Area Network (WAN).
The WAN may or may not be part of the global network called the Internet.
In colleges, universities, and research laboratories it likely is part of the Internet; in the commercial world, except for a few high-tech companies, it likely is not.
Not many members of the public--even the computer literate public-are on the Internet.
People who used the alternative carriers had to dial all sorts of access codes--very often a local access number, a credit card number, a security code, *and* the number of the party they were calling.
They knew that whatever came after that was going to be easier. That's what getting on the Internet is like.
You may have to dial a local access number, get your modem settings right, and type the right magic combination of words; but after all that, actually *using* the Internet is simple.
We'll talk you through the initial steps--after a while (and some frustration) it will be as unconscious as unlocking your front door or tuning a television set. The second problem is a little more substantial.
Using the Internet, you can get yourself into situations that are, well, experimental. Because the Internet gives you the freedom to "go anywhere" and "do anything"--at least if you know the passwords--you can uncover strange incompatibilities and unfamiliar systems.
I call this experience "shell shock".
Their weakness is that they get cloying after about five minutes.
Advice on things that will likely work to get you started is given here and in Appendix A.
Some experience of other kinds of computers, especially computers that use the UNIX operating system is useful.
Be sure to do these steps in the order prescribed.
Often, the only strategy that works is to explore and try different things. This course is designed to get you over the initial hurdles, give you a fair grounding in methods that work, and point you in the right direction.
The exploration is up to you.
As an initial orientation, we describe the "three worlds of the known Internet" in the next section. <Section 2.2> The Three Worlds of the Known Internet The Internet, like ancient Gaul, is divided into three parts.
These parts are not so much territories as worlds, each with their own sets of assumptions, favorite dialects, and favored equipment.
We may conveniently refer to them as the "PC world", the "UNIX world", and the "Mainframe world".
The Internet is dominated by minicomputers and workstations running UNIX and VMS, with an ever increasing influx of PCs running MS-DOS and Macs.
Machines running other operating systems often put a "UNIX-like" foot forward, so the user can almost believe he or she is dealing with UNIX machines. There is a certain sense that the UNIX software is the standard for the Internet.
Each level has its own set of rules, called its protocol.
The TCP/IP protocol belongs to two of the middle levels.
At the moment, the most common protocol for the two most "very hardware" levels is "Ethernet" (looks rather like the coaxial cable used for cable TV), while the "very software" levels are completely dependent on the vendor.
Two of the first, and biggest, nets to adopt the Internet Protocol were ARPAnet-- Internet was first designed for this one--the network for what used to be called DARPA (the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency of the U.S.
Department of Defense), and NSFnet, a network connecting universities and government laboratories for the U.S.
These and other large networks form the "backbone" of the Internet.
But today there are hundreds of smaller nets hooked on to the backbones. There *are* big networks that don't use TCP/IP.
For example, in the context of IBM mainframes at large universities and research institutions, BITnet (The "Because It's Time" Network) emerged.
This large worldwide network does not use the Internet protocol.
BITnet can be reached from the Internet through special translators called gateways, but it is definitely a different network.
Some predictions that various forcasters have made for internetworking (and telecommunications in general) are: o A proposal for a data "superhighway" called the NREN (National Research and Education Network) will pass the U.S.
Sounds like a good thing to connect to the NREN. o Computer and telephone technology will become so intertwined that it is hard to tell the difference.
Appendix B contains a discussion of some of the obscurer terminology associated with modem settings.
You might want to read it if your manual is not well written. Actually, you do not have to know about the second step in great detail. Mostly it is a matter of knowing enough to intellegently choose a provider.
Each provider will have a specific set of steps--modem settings, access numbers, passwords, etc.--that you need to follow in order to get from you to the provider.
Once you get there you've finished the hardest part.
Chapter 6 contains very explicit instructions for connecting to one particular service, DELPHI. Step 3 is the subject of the rest of this course--what you can do once you're on.
The basics are discussed in the next chapter. <Section 3.1> Connection Methods In theory, there are three ways to connect to the Internet from a personal computer or workstation: (1) Your PC may have a direct connection.
This means that it is part of a Local Area Network (LAN) that is in turn connected to one of the component Wide Area Networks of the Internet.
Your computer will have its own Internet Protocol (IP) Address.
This type of connection is common in offices, especially of high-tech firms, but definitely not for home use. (2) You may have a connection to a "host" computer that is directly connected to the net.
If you can use a modem to connect your home PC to the mainframe at the office and the mainframe is on the net, then you can get an Internet connection that way.
But what if your office doesn't have a mainframe on the net?
You can still subscribe to a service that makes a host computer available to the public.
This is presently the cheapest and most common method for public access to the net. (3) There is a connection method in between cases (1) and (2) called a Serial Line Internet Protocol (SLIP) connection.
You dial up a special host computer--just like case (2)--called a SLIP-server.
The difference is that the SLIP server gives you a temporary IP address and talks to your computer using the Internet Protocol.
This requires your computer's software to speak SLIP.
Your computer thinks it is using case (1) even though your actual connection is closer to step 2.
If you just bought or upgraded your software, you probably have SLIP capability already.
SLIP is too slow on a cheap 2400 baud modem.
But if you buy a fast FAX modem it works fine.
That's one reason that a $350 FAX modem is a good investment.
It is fast enough for SLIP and gives you the ability to send and receive FAXes as well. SLIP technology is still rather new and somewhat experimental, so this discussion will focus on the old reliable--method 2.
How do you find a service that will give the public access to the Internet? Depending on where you live, you may have a provider you can call in your local area code.
If not, then most of your problem will be finding the cheapest way to make a long distance phone call.
This book does not have a list of providers, since such a list will get out of date rapidly.
Instead, it gives you one cheap way to get on the Internet, then gives you instructions on how to find out who the providers are and what their rates are.
I would rather teach you how to look out for yourself than just give you some outdated advice.
This method also has the advantage that one set of instructions works for everybody.
That wouldn't be true if I listed 20 or 30 providers.
Basically there are three kinds of providers and three ways to get to them: (1) Providers of direct connections.
If you are setting up a business and need a high volume direct connection for your office Local Area Network and can afford several thousand a year at least, you will want to consider these high-end providers.
They are not relevant to our discussion. (But see Appendix C for more information). (2) There are several regional networks and one national one that specialize in low cost PC-to-host or SLIP connections.
Costs range from $20-40 a month to $2000 a year, depending on the services you need. Performance Systems International (PSI) is a major provider of this kind of service.
Other networks offer services similar to PSI, although PSI has the most extensive nationwide service at this time.
This service can be very competitive with BBS type service (see below) if you are a frequent user of the net or need to send more than an occasional E-mail message.
It is definitely worth a look. (3) Many computer bulletin board services offer E-mail or even Internet connections for around $10-20 per month.
Be very careful to check out the connection charges.
If you are not careful you could be charged for using the bulletin board (per hour), using the Internet, the long-distance connection, a surcharge for daytime use, and a per message charge for E-mail!
One of the purposes of this book is to explain the minefield of charges so you don't get burned.
The service recommended bundles all the charges up front so there are no surprises. Generally speaking, connecting to the Internet through a BBS is the best method for the explorer.
This is very expensive and not recommended. (2) You use a provider with a toll free (800) number and pay for the call in a higher connect charge.
This is also very expensive. (3) You use a Public Data Network after hours and pay around $2 an hour (may be included). Actually, the last method is the only workable one.
There are a number of PDN's. CompuServe has a data network.
You do not have to join CompuServe to use it. PSI has its own data network with many points of presence around the US and abroad.
These are divided into Class A and Class B, depending on the level of service provided. Tymenet and SprintNet are two other public data networks.
You may have heard of the SprintNet service PC Pursuit.
For a monthly fee this gives you many BBS nationwide as well as any computer that can be reached by SprintNet. In general, for a first experiment we recommend the DELPHI BBS and SprintNet.
DELPHI includes the SprintNet surcharge in its $13/month bill (after hours use only--daytime is expensive everywhere).
At this writing you get 5 free hours the first month and 4 hours per month after that.
Additional hours are $4 each.
There is also a 20 hours for $20 plan.
Additional hours are $2 each with this plan.
Detailed instructions on how to sign up are given in "Connecting to the Internet Step by Step." <Chapter 4> Who Pays for the Internet? All this talk of cost may be making you edgy.
Eventually, everyone using the Internet must face the fear--if I am calling up a computer in Switzerland won't I be billed for the call?
The marvelous thing about the Internet is that although there is plenty of expense involved in getting on it, there is no additional expense associated with what you do after you are connected.
Thus, you may have to pay for a $2 an hour call to Massachussetts, for your PC, your modem and software, and a connect fee to your internet provider.
Instead there are hundreds of smaller networks that act as relays.
Those networks *could* charge their customers for each call, based on how much time it takes and where it goes, but since no one is charging them, they have no real incentive to pass on costs.
Instead they charge a flat fee--usually based on connect time, but for a 24 hour connection just a flat yearly fee. Now network traffic does use up resources.
Basically, the Internet works like a potluck supper.
Everyone with a direct connection allows some of their system resources to be used by messages that are just "passing through".
They allow this because other systems allow them the same privilege.
But there are no direct charges associated with using the system. In the early days of the Internet, Government subsidy of the backbone networks was crucial.
The backbone was built with government funds and it was government funds that paid for the extra equipment needed by the universities and laboratories that carried more traffic than they generated.
With the development of commercial nets alternatives to the Government-sponsored backbone arose.
The Government subsidy is still important, but becomming less so every year. So, the short answer is that you pay for the network.
You either pay your provider a flat fee or you pay as a taxpayer for Government subsidized network resources.
The last component, ".edu", means that the institution is in the educational domain. .
This is followed by an at-sign, the node name, and any domain names.
Thus joe@locoweed.chi.il.us donotes a private citizen in Chicago, Illinois, in the U.S.
Joe's computer is called "locoweed". As another (real) example, president@whitehouse.gov is the E-mail address of the U.S.
President. In the examples that follow we will give details for a typical character-oriented computer.
Windowing systems with menus, dialog boxes, and so on will hide many of these details, but they are happening behind the scenes.
Control-Z to exit Bill-- I just got my Internet connection today.
So remember, you don't type them. home> telnet hoople.usnd.edu <type this on your "home" computer> Welcome to node HOOPLE.
You can now do anything on the remote computer (with certain restrictions) you could do if you were "actually" logged on. SPECIAL PROBLEMS WITH TELNETTING Sometimes telnetting will put you into a menu-type program or even a "screen oriented" program.
A special problem here is getting the other computer to recognize what type of screen you have.
It's probably not worth spending a lot of time on this problem for a brief contact with the other computer.
If you are going to work on the remote computer every day, however, you will want to get it right.
Most "flaky" behavior can be traced to this problem. <Section 5.3> File Transfer Protocol (FTP) It is easy to transfer files over the Internet using a special protocol called FTP.
FTP takes the place of programs like XModem or Kermit that may be familiar to you if you use a bulletin board service.
You can move up and down the directory hierarchy and list files, looking for the one you want. Finally, FTP lets you get places that you may not have an account (or a friend to send you mail).
The method for doing this, called "anonymous FTP", is described in the next section.
There are several hundred "anonymous FTP sites" worldwide, with large collections of programs, textfiles, and graphics.
Anonymous FTP is the Internet equivalent of publishing--a very important topic indeed. <Section 5.4> Anonymous FTP Further facility with Anon.
FTP requires a little knowledge of the UNIX operating system.
See Appendix D for an introduction. <Chapter 6> Getting on the Internet Step by Step This course takes a different approach to .
Rather than In particular, you should contact the following for information. STEP 1.
You can get information about other providers once you're on the Internet.
In fact, that will be one of your first steps below. 1.
Usually, for example, full duplex implies local echo off and vice versa, so your software may not list these as separate options. 2.
Use your communications software to issue (or type directly to your modem) the command ATDT 1 800 365 4656.
If you have a pulse-dial phone your will use ATDP instead of ATDT. 3.
DELPHI will give you explicit instructions, but for reference they will look like this: A.
Make sure it is after 6 or 7 p.m. or on a weekend--unless you want a $9 surcharge for daytime access. B.
Dial your local SprintNet access number (local call!): ATDT 123 4567. C.
After "CONNECT 2400", type @D ("D" must be capital) D.
After "terminal=" type <CR>, i.e. carriage return. E.
At the @-sign type @C DELPHI F.
After Username: type Username: YOURNAME Password: OPENSESAME Type your own username and password of course. 4.
If at anytime you forget your Sprintnet access number, or if you are out of town, you can look up SprintNet numbers as follows. STEP 2.
Your First E-mail Get PDIAL, NIXPUB, INTERNET RESOURCE GUIDE, Info on PSI Info on LISTSERV and signing up for E-mail STEP 3.
Your First Anonyomous FTP Get surfing the internet STEP 4.
Your First Telnet Getting Public Access UNIX and reading Usenet news STEP 5.
First E-mail Getting Information on PSI Getting Information on LISTSERV You can do many, many things with the Internet.
The information you have retrieved, especially the Internet Guides, will give you other ideas.
We will go over some of the retrieval methods in Part III of this course.
For now, you should experiment and explore, using the information you have as a starting point.
A binary file is one that you can't read. Unlike text, which consists of groups of eight bit code letters representing "a", "b", and so on, binary files have bits that are meant to be read only by programs.
You cannot "look" at them by typing them out or with a word processor--unless the word processor understands the format of the file.
Expensive word processing programs--including the most popular ones like Word Perfect and Microsoft Word--are increasingly able to read a large variety of binary files. Frequently encountered binary files include: 1.
Files that use proprietary formats, such as word-processing programs, spreadsheets, database programs, etc. These files contain formatting (like italics, underlines, etc.) and perhaps graphics, and other goodies beyond the simple text. 2.
These are programs written in (the binary) machine language that your computer understands.
They are "compiled" from text files of "source code" written in a programming language.
Vendors almost never make their source code available--except for free software, which you may have to compile yourself. 3.
Text files that have been compressed to about half their size with one of the popular compression programs.
Compression makes texts files binary.
Compression doesn't do much for files that are already binary unless the data they contain is very repetitive. 4.
Files containing graphics like GIF, TIFF, PICT, or JPEG files. More on this below. Transfering binary files is as easy as transfering text files once you understand the potential problems: 1.
Most FTP programs start you out in TEXT mode.
This means that text files are *translated* when they go from computer to computer on their way to you.
This is fatal to binary files because their bit pattern has nothing to do with the groups of eight bits that make up text. 2.
Even text files have slight compatibility problems because the three "worlds"--IBM, Macintosh, and UNIX--use a different control character to represent "return", "enter", or "newline.
Translation between the different dialects is handled automatically in TEXT mode transfers.
For current information on compression software, see the FAQ for the newsgroup comp.compression (ftp://rtfm.mit.edu/xxx). 4.
Conversely, sometimes binary files are converted to a sort of ASCII that looks like gibberish so that they can be mailed or transferred in TEXT mode--but again you need a program that translates them back to binary.
The file starts with the word "begin" and ends with "end" The translating program needs these words, but nothing above or below them.
Often a uuencoded file is split into several parts for transmission and must be reassembled (and stripped of mail headers, etc.) in a word processing program before it is decoded.
Graphics are very important for Desktop Publishers--writers of newsletters, businesses that prepare their own brochures, and small printshops.
Pictures can be stored in separate files or, in some cases, embedded in other formats such as the proprietary format of Microsoft Word files.
Picture files take up a large amount of space--especially big pictures at high resolution.
1 Megabyte is a typical size for a smallish picture at moderate resolution.
Thus, one picture is worth about 500 pages of text! The lifecycle of a typical graphic goes something like this: STEP 1.
Capturing (scanning) of photograph with optical scanner or with a special "video" camera The better sort of optical scanner looks like a small xerox machine. There are also cheaper hand-held models.
Flatbed scanners cost in the $1000+ range so you are not likely to have one unless you are in the business.
Most likely, the casual user will get a graphic from someone else, from a collection of "clip art", or create the graphic from scratch in a drawing program. STEP 2.
Storage in a file using an interchange format However the image is obtained, it has to be stored on disk before it can be used.
There are perhaps twenty or so common formats, but those found most often on the Internet and in the Usenet newsgroups are: GIF (Graphics Interchange Format) a rather old-fashioned but very commonly found type of graphics file.
Almost any software can read this format.
This is the most common format on Anonymous FTP archives. TIFF (Tagged Image File Format) Technically more versatile than GIF and just about as common.
The success of the Postscript page description language for Laser printers has led to a new stategy for including graphics in word processing files.
These formats serve as standards for their line of computers but not across different brands.
Fortunately you can find free software that will convert TIFF to PICT or _vice versa_. STEP 3.
Transmission to point of use Suppose you have a graphics file or a word processing file containing your brochure.
How do you send that file to someone? If you work in an academic environment, it is quite possible that one or the other institutions is an Anonymous FTP site.
You may be able to use the Anon.
Say you've just finished a brochure and you want to send it cross-country.
Then, you proceed as follows: A.
Using UUENCODE (or BINHEX, if you like) you convert the Microsoft Word file to a coded text file. B.
If your mail has a size limit, you may have to break up the file and send it in parts. C.
At the receiving end, reassemble the file and strip any headers and trailers added by the mail system.
The file should look like begin <very first line> M M M M end <very last line> and be saved as a TEXT file. D.
Run UUDECODE (or BINHEX) and recover the binary file. E.
Run Microsoft Word, open the binary (MS Word!) file and print. There may be one slight glitch.
Macintosh files have two parts, a "resource" part and a "data" part.
The resource part contains such information as the name of the application to run when you click on the file and how to draw the cute little icon pictures.
Some of the simpler programs do not encode the resource part so you may get a generic document that you can't open by clicking on it (the infamous "application busy or missing" message).
Open it from *within* Word and then save it as a Word document.
It should recover the missing parts.
The fact that it can be done with free software and a casual $10/month E-mail connection is astounding.
Play around and learn to do this.
In the future, printers may commonly accept submissions by E-mail or by direct transfer over telephone lines.
Imagine not having to figure out how to keep your camera-ready copy dry on a rainy day or having to rush across town minutes before your deadline! STEP 4.
Image enhancing and/or color separation One of the great advantages of having a graphic in a computer file is that you can use free software (or shareware) to play around with the image.
Cropping, rotating, streching, zooming, and so on are all common.
Importing or embedding in a word processing or desktop publishing program Once you are happy with the picture you import it as a graphic into your DTP or word processing program.
If your program reads the format the picture is in, this is easy.
If not, you will need to get free software that converts from the format you have to the one you need.
This process is very experimental.
I've found that I have better results converting from an obscure format to a standard and common format like GIF or TIFF before converting to a proprietary target format.
This is even true if the software says it reads the obscure format directly. STEP 6.
Printing on a laser printer or other equipment If a graphic is not solely intended for display on a (color) monitor, like a slide presentation, it must be printed out.
And there it is. Your picture in print. <Chapter 8> What to Do When You Only Have E-mail The very first thing to do is to get information on getting a better Internet connection!
But barring that, there are many reasons that you might need to know workarounds that only require E-mail: you might be stuck somewhere (like work) where there is no Internet access, or you could be borrowing access from a friend.
It requires knowledge and skills that are not presently taught anywhere except on the Internet itself. The next section discusses specific needs of different segments of people.
The final section contains a fairly systematic exposition of the methods and skills needed to Internetwork effectively.
It is commonly found on Internet computers and commonly transmitted over the Internet, but it does not fit into the E-mail-FTP-telnet scheme of things.
All you need to know to get that far (and more) is contained in Appendix D. Any guide like this will soon be dated in terms of information sources, techniques, and software.
But Usenet is up to the minute.
There, hidden among the many diversions of alt., talk., and soc. hierarchies, is the latest information on the computing environment of modern Internetworking.
In the opinion of this author, learning to use a newsreader and reading the network news regularly is the *single most important Internetworking skill*.
The Usenet newsgroups are Dewey Decimal System of the the true world library.
I wish I could describe hundreds of free services of interest to *business* and tell you how to use the Internet for profit.
Is radio and television important to businesses? What about newspapers and magazines?
Very few businesses make money by selling newspapers or operating radio stations, but many, many businesses use these media for advertising.
It specializes in contacting individuals one at a time.
In other words, you are not going to get a list of all 25 million E-mail addresses and bombard them every 10 minutes with a 30 second sound byte.
Nor are you going to send 100 people a letter asking them to contact 100 persons each.
On the other hand you might use the medium to contact a mailing list of your customers or self-publish a promotional brochure. The amount of commercial traffic on the Internet is disappointingly small--but important.
Mostly this is for historical reasons.
The backbone network in the United States, NSFnet (for National Science Foundation) has an "acceptable use" policy for traffic carried over it. This restricts traffic to messages that support the R&D effort of certain government laboratories and universities.
Clearly, there is not room for commercial traffic if you are directly connected to the NSFnet. But nowadays one can get on the Internet without connecting directly to NSFnet, and the amount of commercial traffic is growing.
It is a fair prediction that this advertising medium will develop as more persons join the net.
The Internet is evolving very rapidly.
Businesses who have a pool of employees that are adept at using the Internet will have a competitive advantage over firms that don't.
Journalists who explore the networks will find that they use the tools described in the first part over and over to track down information, conduct prompt "interviews" by mail, and so on.
Publishers will be interested in the electronic transmission of manuscripts (though writers soliciting publication will still want to send hardcopy--the equivalent in the electronic age of sending a self-addressed stamped envelope).
Publishers will also be interested in sharing or developing free image processing software with other publishers, and transmitting graphics. As the net develops, libraries research will more and more often involve internetworking.
Searching for books is already easy by dial-up or over the Internet.
In addition, the amount of information that is never circlulated on paper will increase.
This is already the case in the scientific and technical community where printing is a luxury rather than a necessity.
Given that a single 8 mm videotape can hold 500,000 pages of text, it is possible to hoard (and search) vast amounts of information that you can never possibly print out.
Usenet already has more channels than a typcial satellite and is growing by ten channels a day or so.
The best all around refernce for teachers is the _NCSA Guide to the Internet_, put out by the Education Office of the National Center for Supercompter Administration.
A paper version is available from: The network version is located at ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu.
Besides K12, there are several other regional networks specifically for teachers and students. One of the more exciting prospects for teachers is that of sharing worksheets, handouts, and other materials with other teachers.
Although this type of sharing is routine on bulletin boards and regional networks that cater to teachers, anonymous FTP sites hold out the possibility of a worldwide collection of such materials.
The archives grew piecemeal and their contents are far from uniform in quality.
In addition, the whole Internet is so vast it probably can't be catalogued.
Nevertheless, rough and ready tools and customs have grown up to provide some sort of access to the information that is "out there".
There is a great deal of work to be done by librarians that will doubtless keep them employed into the next millenium. The main boon to librarians is the hierarchical organization of the net into nodes, directories, and subdirectories.
These provide an implicit and universal call number to *everything in the electronic world*.
Persons who are trained in book conservation should know better!). o Some material on the Internet will arouse complaints from the public because it represents the views of unpopular minorities (e.g liberals, homosexuals, feminists, and intellectuals).
There is also a great deal of pornographic material (text and graphics) available by E- mail or through the Usenet newsgroups.
Learning to use the Usenet Newgroups and their invaluable FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions) is the *single most important skill for professional development of your staff.* This means that you may want to encourage after-hours "playing" with your computer system.
Think of the Usenet Newsgroups as the Reference Section of the Internet. <Chapter 16> Special for Scholars It used to be that only scientists and technologists used the academic networks.
Today there are many humanists and social scientists happily gabbing away with their friends (oops . . .
I mean colleagues) at other universities, collaborating by E-mail, subscribing to and writing for E-journals, and so on.
This is, of course, in addition to the academic computing environment described in the Chapter for students. Your main entree to this world is some sort of E-mail access and finding a mailing list or newsgroup for your field.
From there you will pick up tips on interesting materials or groups to join--in short you can start networking.
The two main sources for such mailing lists are LISTSERVERS (traditional on BITNET) and increasingly Usenet Newsgroups.
Actually the newsgroups are not as useful as the lists at the moment *for the humanities*.
This is because the academic hierarchy is not as subdivided as the computer science hierarchy.
Thus, there is a whole hierarchy for computer science, but all of linguistics fits into sci.lang!
These discussion groups either tend to have just a few participants or to be so all-encompassing that they are useless.
This does not mean you should ignore Usenet--the computer and networking information is invaluable--just that you will not find it *directly* relevant to your field. Listservers are another matter.
They allow distribution of articles by anyone to the whole list (unless the list is moderated, i.e. refereed by the list's owner), and they allow archiving of articles at a place anyone on the list can access.
In short, they form a sort of Electronic Journal with a *very* big reader mail column.
To find a list in your field, send the message "INDEX GLOBAL" to any listserver.
These usually have an address like "listserv@hoople.usnd.edu".
The digest includes *your own* correspondence so that you have a record of this.
This is not what happens without the DIGEST option.
These archives may well have materials in your field that they will make available for scholarly purposes at a nominal cost.
Many religious organizations use computers for producing newsletters or accounting and other office tasks; but very few use them effectively for telecommunication and internetworking. The Internet is not like Television or Radio--it is not a broadcast medium.
In many ways the Internet is a more appropriate communications medium for religions organizations than "the media".
From there any member of your organization can upload and download information.
Thus you can keep a library of regional or local newsletters, special software, a directory of local groups, listings of job openings, and so on.
You can make information about your organization and its beliefs instantly available to 25 million people if they want it. In addition, there is a great need for "charity work" in preparing E- texts.
Most E-texts are copyrighted or locked up in proprietary databases.
This means that they cannot be freely shared.
Once printed out it can be disseminated by photocopying or any inexpensive printing method that uses "camera-ready" copy.
It is not enough merely to sell the information at a nominal cost.
Modern versions of the Bible are a problem because of copyright restrictions.
For the beginner, or for the experienced user who wants to do more than check an occasional bibliographic cross-reference to an FTP site, a navigation tool is almost essential.
The three most common navigation tools are discussed here.
They represent three different approaches to stategy, target constituency, target materials, and user interface (the part of the program that you see).
The three services are known as GOPHER, the WIDE AREA INFORMATION SERVICE (WAIS, pron. "ways"), and the WORLD WIDE WEB (WWW or W3). All three services are based on client-server technology.
To make information *available* to others you need special software called a server.
The user then uses a "client" program to access the information.
Clients" are often free--they are written by whoever funded the initial project or by volunteer hackers.
The catch to using a client is that you have to have a *direct* (usually expensive) connection to the Internet.
This is the main reason that a SLIP connection will become more and more important.
As of this writing all three services allow free access to a client for demonstration purposes.
There are a number of telnet addresses where you can try out these navigation tools.
I expect that, as the traffic on the network increases, these public access sites will close down.
But by then communications programs will routinely include SLIP and probably some version of the major "clients" as well. One word of caution: all the services here are built on top of telnet and FTP.
They just provide a different and perhaps more useful way of making Internet connections.
Thus, the same service may appear in several guises, depending on the tool you use to connect to it.
There are also gateways that let you access one service from the other--but often at a price in terms of useability.
You will not experience the real power of, at least, WWW or WAIS. Nevertheless they are useful.
You could cut and paste the information from your screen or use your communications program's "buffer" to store it.
WAIS will send you the results of your search by E-mail.
Often, you will have to resort to FTP to fetch the information once you have located it--if you can figure out where you are.
One of my criticisms of search tools like Gopher or WAIS is that they often give you a very poor indication of where the information you found is physically located.
This is especially true of the publically accessible versions. <Section 18.1> Gopher Gopher was created by two students, xx and xx, at the University of Minnesota.
It provides a menu-like view of that part of the Internet where Gopher servers are found, "gopherspace".
Gopher has spread to many universities.
You can search student directories and campus calendars, as well as the usual internet resources.
It is by far the easiest way to explore the net without entering numerous FTP and telnet commands. Since Gopher is the oldest and most decentralized of the services, it provides the most extensive access to useful services.
Try typing "gopher" at any prompt. <Section 18.2> Wide Area Information Services (WAIS) WAIS was developed in a very different environment from Gopher.
It was developed by a joint collaboration of Thinking Machines, Inc. (Artificial Intellegence technology), Dow Jones News Retrieval (Information systems), and Apple Computer (User interface).
Its ability to find information given a plain English description of what you want ("hey, find everthing on Personal Computers and Health) is truely mind- boggling.
It returns a list of "hits" together with a likelihood that it contains what you wanted.
It can also look for documents that are "something like" a sample document. The user interface is a pleasure to use--but requires a direct or SLIP connection to the Internet.
The line-oriented version that is publically available is a pale imitation of the real thing. WAIS strength is its ability to retrieve information from almost any source, not just FTP sites.
A list of all WAIS sources is maintained in a directory-of-directories (available at think.com).
You import a set of instructions on how to access a given information server to create your own personalized list of sources. This service is probably the one of greatest interest to business (i.e. non-academic and non-library) users.
To try out WAIS, telnet think.com and log in as SWAIS. <Section 18.3> World Wide Web (WWW or W3) The newest of the three services is the World Wide Web.
It was created at the European European Center for High Energy Physics (CERN).
It is based on yet another technology (besides FTP and client-server)-- hypertext.
The World Wide Web views the entire complex of FTP sites as a single "document" with cross-references. A WWW server lets you read that document and jump to any cross-reference that you find--hence the term "hypertext".
The result is rather like a menu driven system but (at least in the graphical interface versions) you stay inside the familiar context of a text editor.
The tags use the syntax of the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML).
SGML is a language used by scholars to mark text for academic research.
The WWW vision of the library of the future is a collection of documents spread all over the world, the whole of which can be looked at starting from any one of them.
Research <Chapter 19> Research Methods II: Usenet Newsgroups [This chapter is under construction] <Chapter 20> Research Methods III: Advanced Techniques The previous two chapters covered the more or less standard techniques for finding your way around the net.
They don't always work. <Section 20.1> Finding Persons and Computers There are a couple of standard methods for checking and verifying E-mail addresses. % ping rtfm.mit.edu (Remember that "%" is the prompt the computer gives you.
Your system prompt may look different).
It lets you find a machine or person by keyword.
If you know your target is at USND, you can try the keywords PDQ, USND, EDU and find pdq@hoople.usnd.edu.
Note that you often have to guess the "domain", but this should not be hard. You can also search with PDQ, "University of Southern North Dakota", EDU, if USND is not sufficiently obvious.
City and state names work, too.
The resources provided here are second best.
Nevertheless, it was felt important to provide a few addresses and a few book titles for the neophyte to get started.
This course is intended to fill the gap.
But they do tell you what to do once you are on.
The first few, which are available by Internet, are especially useful.
It contains a very complete intro- duction to the Internet and classroom Internet projects for K12 teachers.
This is the best guide for public school teachers. For paper version, write: Chuck Farmer, 152 CAB, 605 E.
Springfield Ave., Champaign, IL 61820.
Cost is around $22.00 for 300 pp. Polly, Jean Armour. _Surfing the Internet_ nysernet.org:/pub/resources/guides (192.77.173.2).
This is my all- around choice for best introduction to the Internet.
It contains references to most other good sources of information together with instructions on how to get them.
It is especially complete in giving information of interest to librarians. Kehoe, Brendan. _Zen and the Art of the Internet_ (1st ed.) A very good guide for how-to information.
Unfortunately, the FTP versions are all marked up in a dialect of the TeX typesetting system. They are still somewhat readable though, even if you don't have the TeX system.
A Postscript version is also provided. ftp.uu.net:/inet/doc (137.39.1.9) ftp.cs.toronto.edu:/pub/zen (147.31.254.132) ftp.cs.widener.edu:/pub/zen (147.31.254.132) files are called zen- 1.0.tar.Z, zen-1.0.dvi, and zen-1.0.PS ftp.sura.net:/pub/nic/zen-1.0.PS PUBLISHED WORKS Kehoe, Brendan. (1993).
ISBN 1-56592-025-2. LaQuey, Tracey, & Ryer, J.
The Internet Companion: a Beginner's Guide to Global Networking..
Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley. ISBN 0-201-62224-6 Marine, April. (1992).
ISBN 0-944604-15-3 Tennant, Roy, Ober, J., and Lipow, A.
ISBN: 1-882208-01-3 (Library Solutions Institute and Press, 2137 Oregon Street, Berkeley, CA 94705.
Voice: 510/841-2636 FAX: 510/841-2926) <Chapter 28> Glossary [This chapter is under construction] <Appendix A> COMPUTER HINTS FOR THE *REALLY* GREEN 1. (turning on) Make sure the computer is plugged in and on.
Is something on the screen?
Can you hear a fan?
Does anything happen when you type or move the mouse?
Are lights lit or flashing?
The screen may be frozen by a "hold" button (look for a light labelled "scroll lock" or something similar.
Try touching the upper left button on the keyboard-- F1, "escape", "hold", "break", whatever).
If the computer is not on look for a switch on back or a key labelled "on" or with a triangle on it. 2. (using a mouse) Determine whether you are looking at a character terminal or a window-oriented screen.
If window-oriented, then moving the mouse should cause a pointer to appear and move around.
Use this pointer to click on windows, buttons, etc. You click the mouse by pressing its button (leftmost one if there are three).
If you hold the mouse button down you can "grab" things and drag them around.
Clicking on windows makes them active (ready for commands) and brings them forward. 3. (modifier and function keys) Keys labelled "shift", "alt", "meta", "option", "command", "ctrl" or marked with certain funny symbols are modifier keys.
They work like shift keys on a typewriter and can change the effect of typing a key or clicking a mouse button.
Function keys, labelled F1, F2, etc., do something immediately--like edit, move to the next page, or quit the program--when you press them.
The keys on the keypad (right hand side, looks like a calculator pad) act as function keys in some programs. 4. (popup menus and menubars).
If there is a string of words at the top of the screen ("menubar"), touch one of the words with the pointer using the mouse and then hold down the mouse button.
A menu should pop up.
If you continue holding down the mouse button and drag down the menu, then let go, you will select one of the commands.
If you don't want to activate a command, drag the pointer away from the commands (towards the middle of the screen, say) and let go. 5. (getting the computer's attention) No luck?
Sometimes answering a question with a carriage return gets you a default answer.
Authorized persons only. Username: xxx Password: then the computer wants you to give it a username (nickname, handle) and type a password.
Type your last name and hit return; then type your password and hit return.
If you are sure the system is meant for the general public--say it is a donor database run by the Red Cross--try obvious names like "redcross", "anonymous", or "public".
Try "help" or "?" to find out what is possible.
Or try "man intro" (UNIX systems only) to read the online manual.
There might be a help key or help command on a menu. 10. (text buffers) At some point you may be composing a message.
You type the message, of course.
You may or may not have to type "return" at the end of each line--experiment with this.
You can erase any mistakes with the delete key.
Be warned that many sites add numbers (goodwin21), use serial numbers (g21135), or use cutesy aliases (thumper).
Usernames are usually all lowercase. 12. (case sensitivity) if nothing seems to work the way it is supposed to check your caps lock.
Most systems are either case-sensitive (like UNIX) or automatically translate commands to all upper case.
Thus "help", "HELP", and "Help" are either three differnt commands or one and the same. 13. (saving your work) With most programs, whatever you do or change is not permanent unless you write the changes to disk.
You "save" your work by selecting "save" from the "file" menu or some other method. Often there are two commands for exiting--one that saves your work and one that discards it.
For example, "exit" might save changes and "quit" ignore them.
USING A MODEM Using a modem (modulator-demodulator) is relatively easy if you follow the instructions that come with the modem and the communications software.
These instructions cannot BUYING A MODEM: BASIC FEATURES You should choose a "Hayes-compatible" modem.
This is the industry standard and works with most software.
The modem is a small computer that responds to "AT" commands, commands sent by your software beginning with "AT" for "Attention Modem".
The most common are "ATDT 1 800 555 1212".
This tells your modem So make sure the modem you buy responds to AT commands.
A 2400 baud Hayes-compatible modem will cost about $50 by mail-order.
You should consider buying a FAX modem ($350), however.
The more expensive modem is faster, has more features, and can turn your computer into a FAX machine.
Your connection to the outside world will never be any better than your modem allows, so buy a good one. The FAXes can be displayed on your computer screen.
You only print them if you want to, on an ordinary laser printer.
Your modem probably included the right kind of cable.
If not, check the manual or call the dealer who sold you the modem. The modem to phone connection will use standard telephone cable with modular jacks on either end.
You unplug your phone from the wall socket and plug in your modem instead.
This is so the computer can look for the modem and confirm that it is hooked up.
These settings are listed in literature about the service.
As a last resort call customer service for the computer you are trying to connect to.
Or else you can try different settings until you find one the lets you connect.
If your modem is going to talk with your computer at a faster rate than over the phone line, then flow control is essential.
Be sure that your software understands that the phone line speed is different from the computer-to- modem speed.
The phone line can't go any faster than 14,440 Baud.
Your computer can do four times that or more. Full or half duplex connection (LOCAL ECHO ON or OFF).
In a half duplex connection the two computers take turns communicating on the same channel.
In a full duplex connection both computers can talk at once, so local echo is OFF. 7 or 8 bits per character.
Many computer systems use the last seven bits of each byte to denote a character (up to 128 characters).
The eighth bit is used for parity, flow control, or some other important signal.
Nowadays 8 bits is more common. Even, Odd, or No PARITY.
NO parity is the most common setting today, however. 0,1, or 2 STOP BITS.
If you are lucky, both computers will establish a "carrier" tone or hum that is then modulated to send data.
At this point most modems turn of the speaker, but a "carrier detect" light should be on.
As long as you have the carrier you have the connection.
The carrier is present--to your modem, at least--even if you tell your software to "go off line" for a while.
If you hang up, however, the carrier is dropped. Now that you have a carrier, whatever you type is sent to the other computer (and the "transmit" light flashes), and you can receive data as well.
Pay attention to any banner the service you are connecting to may print.
In particular you need to know what "escape character" your system recognizes.
Typing this character or sequence of characters allows you to stop tranmitting everything and give your own system a command.
These programs use a common protocol, or procedure, to communicate.
The most common protocols are XMODEM, YMODEM, ZMODEM, and KERMIT (for UNIX systems and some others).
The steps involved--using KERMIT as an example--are: 1.
Run KERMIT on the sending machine 2.
Escape to the receiving machine 3.
Run KERMIT on the recieving machine 4.
Wait for the transfer to finish. You will have to read your software manual for more specific instructions, unless you have a direct internet connection or SLIP connection.
In these cases you can issue a File Transfer Protocol (FTP) command to whichever computer and the details at the other end are automatically taken care of.
See Chapter X for more detail on transferring data. DISCONNECTING You will want to use whatever "logoff" procedure the remote computer wants.
One day you may be logged on to a UNIX machine.
The basic commands you need to know for any system are how to display directories and list the contents of files, how to name files, and how to get help about the system.
UNIX commands are just as quirky as MS-DOS, VMS, RSX, VM, or any other operating system that uses a command language.
In all cases your request is handled by an automated system that sends the materials by return mail.
Systems change frequently, so some commands may be out of date.
But some old-fashioned ones expect it as part of the *subject* line!
I always tell if this is the case. In most cases you will get a response in a few minutes.
They have an online database.
For detailed instructions, send the message: connect guvax.acc.georgetown.edu cd cpet_projects_in_electronic_text get cpet_user_guide.txt to "ftpmail@decwrl.dec.com". [This is a service that provides Internet File Transfer Protocol (FTP) by E-mail.
See next entry]. Anonymous FTP reference for CPET user's guide: "guvax.acc.georgetown.edu:/cpet_projects_in_electronic_text/cpet_user_gu ide.txt" [9] Instructions for using Archie by Mail and FTP by Mail. Archie is a lookup service for finding software or documents in Anonymous FTP archives on the Internet.
Anonymous FTP is a method for making materials on certain computers available to the public.
Anyone is allowed to log in with the username "anonymous" You give your real name as the password.
Anonymous FTP is not available if you just have E-mail, not a full Internet connection. To help E-mail users access Anonymous FTP archives, an FTP by Mail server has been set up at decwrl.dec.com.
It will send you materials you find using Archie.
Binary files (pictures and programs) are encoded as text files using the programs "btoa" or "uuencode".
You need these freeware programs if you want to get anything besides text files, i.e. ASCII. A.
To get started with Archie, send the message "help" to "archie@archie.rutgers.edu".
There are many Archie servers around the world.
Any Archie will give you a complete list. B.
After reading the guide, send the message "send gutenberg catalog".
Thereafter, any message sent to "politics@whitehouse.gov" will send you message to all members of the list.
You get all the postings from other members as well [The Whitehouse list on politics is a fake example]. Aside: Usenet newsgroup FAQ's are archived at "rtfm.mit.edu".
They cover every conceivable subject (but are especially good with computers).
To access the archive by E-mail, send the message "help" to "mail-server@rtfm.mit.edu".
You can send mail to an entire list and get a digest of "articles" posted on a given day.
Lists are espcecially good for anyone with an interest in the Humanities.
There are lots of other files on their service available instantly.
E.g., for information on their version of telnet, send any message to "gds- info@psi.com"; for their version of FTP, any message to "psilink- info@psi.com". [4] Scott Yanoff's list of Internet Resources.
G., CHIEF OF ORDNANCE. EXPLANATORY In this book a number of dialects are used, to wit: the Missouri negro dialect; the extremest form of the backwoods Southwestern dialect; the ordinary "Pike County" dialect; and four modified varieties of this last.
That book was made by Mr. Mark Twain, and he told the truth, mainly.
There was things which he stretched, but mainly he told the truth.
I never seen anybody but lied one time or another, without it was Aunt Polly, or the widow, or maybe Mary.
We got six thousand dollars apiece-all gold.
It was an awful sight of money when it was piled up.
Well, Judge Thatcher he took it and put it out at interest, and it fetched us a dollar a day apiece all the year round-more than a body could tell what to do with.
I got into my old rags and my sugar-hogshead again, and was free and satisfied.
But Tom Sawyer he hunted me up and said he was going to start a band of robbers, and I might join if I would go back to the widow and be respectable.
Well, then, the old thing commenced again.
The widow rung a bell for supper, and you had to come to time.
She said it was a mean practice and wasn't clean, and I must try to not do it any more.
That is just the way with some people.
They get down on a thing when they don't know nothing about it.
Here she was a-bothering about Moses, which was no kin to her, and no use to anybody, being gone, you see, yet finding a power of fault with me for doing a thing that had some good in it.
She worked me middling hard for about an hour, and then the widow made her ease up.
I couldn't stood it much longer.
Then for an hour it was deadly dull, and I was fidgety.
Miss Watson would say, "Don't put your feet up there, Huckleberry;" and "Don't scrunch up like that, Huckleberry-set up straight;" and pretty soon she would say, "Don't gap and stretch like that, Huckleberry-why don't you try to behave?
Then she told me all about the bad place, and I said I wished I was there.
She got mad then, but I didn't mean no harm.
But I never said so, because it would only make trouble, and wouldn't do no good. Now she had got a start, and she went on and told me all about the good place.
She said all a body would have to do there was to go around all day long with a harp and sing, forever and ever.
So I didn't think much of it.
But I never said so.
I asked her if she reckoned Tom Sawyer would go there, and she said not by a considerable sight.
I went up to my room with a piece of candle, and put it on the table.
Then I set down in a chair by the window and tried to think of something cheerful, but it warn't no use.
I felt so lonesome I most wished I was dead.
I got so down-hearted and scared I did wish I had some company.
Pretty soon a spider went crawling up my shoulder, and I flipped it off and it lit in the candle; and before I could budge it was all shriveled up.
I didn't need anybody to tell me that that was an awful bad sign and would fetch me some bad luck, so I was scared and most shook the clothes off of me.
I got up and turned around in my tracks three times and crossed my breast every time; and then I tied up a little lock of my hair with a thread to keep witches away.
But I hadn't no confidence.
Well, after a long time I heard the clock away off in the town go boom-boom-boom-twelve licks; and all still again-stiller than ever. Pretty soon I heard a twig snap down in the dark amongst the trees-something was a stirring.
I set still and listened.
Directly I could just barely hear a "_me-yow! me-yow!_" down there.
That was good! Says I, "_me-yow! me-yow!_" as soft as I could, and then I put out the light and scrambled out of the window on to the shed.
When we was passing by the kitchen I fell over a root and made a noise.
We scrouched down and laid still.
Miss Watson's big nigger, named Jim, was setting in the kitchen door; we could see him pretty clear, because there was a light behind him.
He got up and stretched his neck out about a minute, listening.
Then he says: "Who dah?" He listened some more; then he come tiptoeing down and stood right between us; we could a touched him, nearly.
Well, likely it was minutes and minutes that there warn't a sound, and we all there so close together.
There was a place on my ankle that got to itching, but I dasn't scratch it; and then my ear begun to itch; and next my back, right between my shoulders.
Seemed like I'd die if I couldn't scratch. Well, I've noticed that thing plenty times since.
Pretty soon Jim says: "Say, who is you?
Dog my cats ef I didn' hear sumf'n. Well, I know what I's gwyne to do: I's gwyne to set down here and listen tell I hears it agin." So he set down on the ground betwixt me and Tom.
He leaned his back up against a tree, and stretched his legs out till one of them most touched one of mine.
My nose begun to itch.
It itched till the tears come into my eyes.
Then it begun to itch on the inside.
Next I got to itching underneath.
I didn't know how I was going to set still.
This miserableness went on as much as six or seven minutes; but it seemed a sight longer than that.
I was itching in eleven different places now.
I reckoned I couldn't stand it more'n a minute longer, but I set my teeth hard and got ready to try.
When we was ten foot off Tom whispered to me, and wanted to tie Jim to the tree for fun.
But I said no; he might wake and make a disturbance, and then they'd find out I warn't in. Then Tom said he hadn't got candles enough, and he would slip in the kitchen and get some more.
I didn't want him to try.
I said Jim might wake up and come.
But Tom wanted to resk it; so we slid in there and got three candles, and Tom laid five cents on the table for pay.
Then we got out, and I was in a sweat to get away; but nothing would do Tom but he must crawl to where Jim was, on his hands and knees, and play something on him.
Jim was monstrous proud about it, and he got so he wouldn't hardly notice the other niggers.
Niggers would come miles to hear Jim tell about it, and he was more looked up to than any nigger in that country.
Niggers would come from all around there and give Jim anything they had, just for a sight of that five-center piece; but they wouldn't touch it, because the devil had had his hands on it.
We went down the hill and found Jo Harper and Ben Rogers, and two or three more of the boys, hid in the old tanyard.
Then we lit the candles, and crawled in on our hands and knees.
We went about two hundred yards, and then the cave opened up.
Tom poked about amongst the passages, and pretty soon ducked under a wall where you wouldn't a noticed that there was a hole.
We went along a narrow place and got into a kind of room, all damp and sweaty and cold, and there we stopped.
Tom says: "Now, we'll start this band of robbers and call it Tom Sawyer's Gang. Everybody that wants to join has got to take an oath, and write his name in blood." Everybody was willing.
So Tom got out a sheet of paper that he had wrote the oath on, and read it.
And nobody that didn't belong to the band could use that mark, and if he did he must be sued; and if he done it again he must be killed.
He said, some of it, but the rest was out of pirate-books and robber-books, and every gang that was high-toned had it. Some thought it would be good to kill the _families_ of boys that told the secrets.
Well, nobody could think of anything to do-everybody was stumped, and set still.
I was most ready to cry; but all at once I thought of a way, and so I offered them Miss Watson-they could kill her.
Everybody said: "Oh, she'll do.
That ain't no sort of style.
We stop stages and carriages on the road, with masks on, and kill the people and take their watches and money." "Must we always kill the people?" "Oh, certainly.
Some authorities think different, but mostly it's considered best to kill them-except some that you bring to the cave here, and keep them till they're ransomed." "Ransomed?
What's that?" "I don't know.
But that's what they do.
I've seen it in books; and so of course that's what we've got to do." "But how can we do it if we don't know what it is?" "Why, blame it all, we've _got_ to do it.
Don't I tell you it's in the books?
Now, what do you _reckon_ it is?" "Well, I don't know.
But per'aps if we keep them till they're ransomed, it means that we keep them till they're dead." "Now, that's something _like_.
Why couldn't you said that before?
We'll keep them till they're ransomed to death; and a bothersome lot they'll be, too-eating up everything, and always trying to get loose." "How you talk, Ben Rogers.
How can they get loose when there's a guard over them, ready to shoot them down if they move a peg?" "A guard!
So somebody's got to set up all night and never get any sleep, just so as to watch them.
Why can't a body take a club and ransom them as soon as they get here?" "Because it ain't in the books so-that's why.
Now, Ben Rogers, do you want to do things regular, or don't you?-that's the idea.
Don't you reckon that the people that made the books knows what's the correct thing to do?
Do you reckon _you_ can learn 'em anything?
Not by a good deal.
No, sir, we'll just go on and ransom them in the regular way." "All right.
I don't mind; but I say it's a fool way, anyhow.
Say, do we kill the women, too?" "Well, Ben Rogers, if I was as ignorant as you I wouldn't let on.
No; nobody ever saw anything in the books like that.
Then Miss Watson she took me in the closet and prayed, but nothing come of it.
She told me to pray every day, and whatever I asked for I would get it.
Once I got a fish-line, but no hooks.
It warn't any good to me without hooks.
I tried for the hooks three or four times, but somehow I couldn't make it work.
By-and-by, one day, I asked Miss Watson to try for me, but she said I was a fool.
She never told me why, and I couldn't make it out no way. I set down one time back in the woods, and had a long think about it.
I says to myself, if a body can get anything they pray for, why don't Deacon Winn get back the money he lost on pork?
Why can't the widow get back her silver snuffbox that was stole?
Why can't Miss Watson fat up? No, says I to myself, there ain't nothing in it.
I went and told the widow about it, and she said the thing a body could get by praying for it was "spiritual gifts.
This was too many for me, but she told me what she meant-I must help other people, and do everything I could for other people, and look out for them all the time, and never think about myself.
This was including Miss Watson, as I took it.
Sometimes the widow would take me one side and talk about Providence in a way to make a body's mouth water; but maybe next day Miss Watson would take hold and knock it all down again.
I judged I could see that there was two Providences, and a poor chap would stand considerable show with the widow's Providence, but if Miss Watson's got him there warn't no help for him any more.
He used to always whale me when he was sober and could get his hands on me; though I used to take to the woods most of the time when he was around.
Well, about this time he was found in the river drownded, about twelve mile above town, so people said.
They took him and buried him on the bank.
But I warn't comfortable long, because I happened to think of something.
I knowed mighty well that a drownded man don't float on his back, but on his face.
So I knowed, then, that this warn't pap, but a woman dressed up in a man's clothes.
So I was uncomfortable again.
I judged the old man would turn up again by-and-by, though I wished he wouldn't. We played robber now and then about a month, and then I resigned.
We hadn't robbed nobody, hadn't killed any people, but only just pretended.
We used to hop out of the woods and go charging down on hog-drivers and women in carts taking garden stuff to market, but we never hived any of them.
Tom Sawyer called the hogs "ingots," and he called the turnips and stuff "julery," and we would go to the cave and powwow over what we had done, and how many people we had killed and marked.
But I couldn't see no profit in it.
He said we must slick up our swords and guns, and get ready.
But there warn't no Spaniards and A-rabs, and there warn't no camels nor no elephants.
It warn't anything but a Sunday-school picnic, and only a primer-class at that.
He said there was loads of them there, anyway; and he said there was A-rabs there, too, and elephants and things.
I said, why couldn't we see them, then?
He said if I warn't so ignorant, but had read a book called Don Quixote, I would know without asking.
He said it was all done by enchantment.
Tom Sawyer said I was a numskull. "Why," said he, "a magician could call up a lot of genies, and they would hash you up like nothing before you could say Jack Robinson.
They are as tall as a tree and as big around as a church." "Well," I says, "s'pose we got some genies to help _us_-can't we lick the other crowd then?" "How you going to get them?" "I don't know.
They don't think nothing of pulling a shot-tower up by the roots, and belting a Sunday-school superintendent over the head with it-or any other man." "Who makes them tear around so?" "Why, whoever rubs the lamp or the ring.
They belong to whoever rubs the lamp or the ring, and they've got to do whatever he says.
And what's more-if I was one of them I would see a man in Jericho before I would drop my business and come to him for the rubbing of an old tin lamp." "How you talk, Huck Finn.
Why, you'd _have_ to come when he rubbed it, whether you wanted to or not." "What! and I as high as a tree and as big as a church?
All right, then; I _would_ come; but I lay I'd make that man climb the highest tree there was in the country." "Shucks, it ain't no use to talk to you, Huck Finn.
You don't seem to know anything, somehow-perfect saphead." I thought all this over for two or three days, and then I reckoned I would see if there was anything in it.
So then I judged that all that stuff was only just one of Tom Sawyer's lies.
I reckoned he believed in the A-rabs and the elephants, but as for me I think different.
It had all the marks of a Sunday-school. CHAPTER IV. Well, three or four months run along, and it was well into the winter now.
So the longer I went to school the easier it got to be.
I was getting sort of used to the widow's ways, too, and they warn't so raspy on me.
Living in a house and sleeping in a bed pulled on me pretty tight mostly, but before the cold weather I used to slide out and sleep in the woods sometimes, and so that was a rest to me.
I liked the old ways best, but I was getting so I liked the new ones, too, a little bit.
The widow said I was coming along slow but sure, and doing very satisfactory.
She said she warn't ashamed of me. One morning I happened to turn over the salt-cellar at breakfast.
I reached for some of it as quick as I could to throw over my left shoulder and keep off the bad luck, but Miss Watson was in ahead of me, and crossed me off.
She says, "Take your hands away, Huckleberry; what a mess you are always making!
There was an inch of new snow on the ground, and I seen somebody's tracks.
They had come up from the quarry and stood around the stile a while, and then went on around the garden fence.
It was funny they hadn't come in, after standing around so.
I couldn't make it out.
It was very curious, somehow.
I was going to follow around, but I stooped down to look at the tracks first.
I didn't notice anything at first, but next I did.
There was a cross in the left boot-heel made with big nails, to keep off the devil. I was up in a second and shinning down the hill.
I looked over my shoulder every now and then, but I didn't see nobody.
I was at Judge Thatcher's as quick as I could get there.
He said: "Why, my boy, you are all out of breath.
Did you come for your interest?" "No, sir," I says; "is there some for me?" "Oh, yes, a half-yearly is in, last night-over a hundred and fifty dollars.
Quite a fortune for you.
You had better let me invest it along with your six thousand, because if you take it you'll spend it." "No, sir," I says, "I don't want to spend it.
I don't want it at all-nor the six thousand, nuther.
I want you to take it; I want to give it to you-the six thousand and all." He looked surprised.
He couldn't seem to make it out.
He says: "Why, what can you mean, my boy?" I says, "Don't you ask me no questions about it, please.
You'll take it-won't you?" He says: "Well, I'm puzzled.
Is something the matter?" "Please take it," says I, "and don't ask me nothing-then I won't have to tell no lies." He studied a while, and then he says: "Oho-o!
You want to _sell_ all your property to me-not give it.
That's the correct idea." Then he wrote something on a paper and read it over, and says: "There; you see it says 'for a consideration.
That means I have bought it of you and paid you for it.
Here's a dollar for you.
He said there was a spirit inside of it, and it knowed everything.
So I went to him that night and told him pap was here again, for I found his tracks in the snow.
What I wanted to know was, what he was going to do, and was he going to stay?
Jim got out his hair-ball and said something over it, and then he held it up and dropped it on the floor.
It fell pretty solid, and only rolled about an inch.
Jim tried it again, and then another time, and it acted just the same.
Jim got down on his knees, and put his ear against it and listened.
But it warn't no use; he said it wouldn't talk.
He said sometimes it wouldn't talk without money.
Jim smelt it and bit it and rubbed it, and said he would manage so the hair-ball would think it was good.
Well, I knowed a potato would do that before, but I had forgot it. Jim put the quarter under the hair-ball, and got down and listened again.
This time he said the hair-ball was all right.
He said it would tell my whole fortune if I wanted it to.
So the hair-ball talked to Jim, and Jim told it to me.
He says: "Yo' ole father doan' know yit what he's a-gwyne to do.
Sometimes he spec he'll go 'way, en den agin he spec he'll stay.
De bes' way is to res' easy en let de ole man take his own way.
Dey's two angels hoverin' roun' 'bout him.
One uv 'em is white en shiny, en t'other one is black. De white one gits him to go right a little while, den de black one sail in en bust it all up.
A body can't tell yit which one gwyne to fetch him at de las'.
But you is all right.
You gwyne to have considable trouble in yo' life, en considable joy.
Sometimes you gwyne to git hurt, en sometimes you gwyne to git sick; but every time you's gwyne to git well agin.
Dey's two gals flyin' 'bout you in yo' life.
One uv 'em's light en t'other one is dark.
One is rich en t'other is po'. You's gwyne to marry de po' one fust en de rich one by en by.
Then I turned around and there he was.
I used to be scared of him all the time, he tanned me so much.
His hair was long and tangled and greasy, and hung down, and you could see his eyes shining through like he was behind vines.
It was all black, no gray; so was his long, mixed-up whiskers.
There warn't no color in his face, where his face showed; it was white; not like another man's white, but a white to make a body sick, a white to make a body's flesh crawl-a tree-toad white, a fish-belly white.
As for his clothes-just rags, that was all.
He had one ankle resting on t'other knee; the boot on that foot was busted, and two of his toes stuck through, and he worked them now and then.
His hat was laying on the floor-an old black slouch with the top caved in, like a lid. I stood a-looking at him; he set there a-looking at me, with his chair tilted back a little.
I set the candle down.
I noticed the window was up; so he had clumb in by the shed.
He kept a-looking me all over. By-and-by he says: "Starchy clothes-very.
You think you're a good deal of a big-bug, _don't_ you?" "Maybe I am, maybe I ain't," I says. "Don't you give me none o' your lip," says he.
You've put on considerable many frills since I been away.
I'll take you down a peg before I get done with you.
You're educated, too, they say-can read and write.
You think you're better'n your father, now, don't you, because he can't? _I'll_ take it out of you.
Who told you you might meddle with such hifalut'n foolishness, hey?-who told you you could?" "The widow.
She told me." "The widow, hey?-and who told the widow she could put in her shovel about a thing that ain't none of her business?" "Nobody never told her." "Well, I'll learn her how to meddle.
And looky here-you drop that school, you hear?
I'll learn people to bring up a boy to put on airs over his own father and let on to be better'n what _he_ is.
You lemme catch you fooling around that school again, you hear?
Your mother couldn't read, and she couldn't write, nuther, before she died.
None of the family couldn't before _they_ died. _I_ can't; and here you're a-swelling yourself up like this.
I ain't the man to stand it-you hear? Say, lemme hear you read." I took up a book and begun something about General Washington and the wars.
When I'd read about a half a minute, he fetched the book a whack with his hand and knocked it across the house.
I had my doubts when you told me.
Now looky here; you stop that putting on frills.
I'll lay for you, my smarty; and if I catch you about that school I'll tan you good. First you know you'll get religion, too.
A bed; and bedclothes; and a look'n'-glass; and a piece of carpet on the floor-and your own father got to sleep with the hogs in the tanyard.
I never see such a son.
I bet I'll take some o' these frills out o' you before I'm done with you. Why, there ain't no end to your airs-they say you're rich.
Hey?-how's that?" "They lie-that's how." "Looky here-mind how you talk to me; I'm a-standing about all I can stand now-so don't gimme no sass.
I've been in town two days, and I hain't heard nothing but about you bein' rich.
I heard about it away down the river, too.
You git me that money to-morrow-I want it." "I hain't got no money." "It's a lie.
I want it." "I hain't got no money, I tell you.
You ask Judge Thatcher; he'll tell you the same." "All right.
I'll ask him; and I'll make him pungle, too, or I'll know the reason why.
Say, how much you got in your pocket?
So Judge Thatcher and the widow had to quit on the business. That pleased the old man till he couldn't rest.
He said he'd cowhide me till I was black and blue if I didn't raise some money for him.
The judge said he could hug him for them words; so _he_ cried, and his wife she cried again; pap said he'd been a man that had always been misunderstood before, and the judge said he believed it.
The old man said that what a man wanted that was down was sympathy, and the judge said it was so; so they cried again.
You mark them words-don't forget I said them. It's a clean hand now; shake it-don't be afeard." So they shook it, one after the other, all around, and cried.
The judge's wife she kissed it.
Then the old man he signed a pledge-made his mark.
The judge said it was the holiest time on record, or something like that.
And when they come to look at that spare room they had to take soundings before they could navigate it. The judge he felt kind of sore.
He catched me a couple of times and thrashed me, but I went to school just the same, and dodged him or outrun him most of the time.
I didn't want to go to school much before, but I reckoned I'd go now to spite pap.
That law trial was a slow business-appeared like they warn't ever going to get started on it; so every now and then I'd borrow two or three dollars off of the judge for him, to keep from getting a cowhiding.
Every time he got money he got drunk; and every time he got drunk he raised Cain around town; and every time he raised Cain he got jailed.
He said he would show who was Huck Finn's boss.
He had a gun which he had stole, I reckon, and we fished and hunted, and that was what we lived on.
Every little while he locked me in and went down to the store, three miles, to the ferry, and traded fish and game for whisky, and fetched it home and got drunk and had a good time, and licked me.
I didn't want to go back no more.
I had stopped cussing, because the widow didn't like it; but now I took to it again because pap hadn't no objections.
It was pretty good times up in the woods there, take it all around. But by-and-by pap got too handy with his hick'ry, and I couldn't stand it.
I was all over welts.
He got to going away so much, too, and locking me in. Once he locked me in and was gone three days.
I judged he had got drownded, and I wasn't ever going to get out any more.
I made up my mind I would fix up some way to leave there.
I had tried to get out of that cabin many a time, but I couldn't find no way.
There warn't a window to it big enough for a dog to get through.
I couldn't get up the chimbly; it was too narrow.
The door was thick, solid oak slabs.
But this time I found something at last; I found an old rusty wood-saw without any handle; it was laid in between a rafter and the clapboards of the roof.
I greased it up and went to work.
There was an old horse-blanket nailed against the logs at the far end of the cabin behind the table, to keep the wind from blowing through the chinks and putting the candle out.
I got under the table and raised the blanket, and went to work to saw a section of the big bottom log out-big enough to let me through.
He said he was down town, and everything was going wrong.
And he said people allowed there'd be another trial to get me away from him and give me to the widow for my guardian, and they guessed it would win this time.
This shook me up considerable, because I didn't want to go back to the widow's any more and be so cramped up and sivilized, as they called it.
I toted up a load, and went back and set down on the bow of the skiff to rest.
I thought it all over, and I reckoned I would walk off with the gun and some lines, and take to the woods when I run away.
While I was cooking supper the old man took a swig or two and got sort of warmed up, and went to ripping again.
He had been drunk over in town, and laid in the gutter all night, and he was a sight to look at.
A body would a thought he was Adam-he was just all mud.
Yes, just as that man has got that son raised at last, and ready to go to work and begin to do suthin' for _him_ and give him a rest, the law up and goes for him.
And they call _that_ govment!
The law backs that old Judge Thatcher up and helps him to keep me out o' my property.
A man can't get his rights in a govment like this.
Sometimes I've a mighty notion to just leave the country for good and all.
Yes, and I _told_ 'em so; I told old Thatcher so to his face.
Lots of 'em heard me, and can tell what I said.
Says I, for two cents I'd leave the blamed country and never come a-near it agin.
Look at it, says I-such a hat for me to wear-one of the wealthiest men in this town if I could git my rights. "Oh, yes, this is a wonderful govment, wonderful.
Why, looky here. There was a free nigger there from Ohio-a mulatter, most as white as a white man.
And what do you think?
They said he was a p'fessor in a college, and could talk all kinds of languages, and knowed everything.
And that ain't the wust.
They said he could _vote_ when he was at home.
Well, that let me out.
Thinks I, what is the country a-coming to?
I says I'll never vote agin. Them's the very words I said; they all heard me; and the country may rot for all me-I'll never vote agin as long as I live.
And to see the cool way of that nigger-why, he wouldn't a give me the road if I hadn't shoved him out o' the way.
I says to the people, why ain't this nigger put up at auction and sold?-that's what I want to know.
And what do you reckon they said?
Why, they said he couldn't be sold till he'd been in the State six months, and he hadn't been there that long yet.
They call that a govment that can't sell a free nigger till he's been in the State six months.
That was always his word.
I judged he would be blind drunk in about an hour, and then I would steal the key, or saw myself out, one or t'other.
He drank and drank, and tumbled down on his blankets by-and-by; but luck didn't run my way.
He didn't go sound asleep, but was uneasy.
He groaned and moaned and thrashed around this way and that for a long time.
There was pap looking wild, and skipping around every which way and yelling about snakes.
He said they was crawling up his legs; and then he would give a jump and scream, and say one had bit him on the cheek-but I couldn't see no snakes.
He started and run round and round the cabin, hollering "Take him off! take him off! he's biting me on the neck!
I never see a man look so wild in the eyes.
He wore out by-and-by, and laid still a while, moaning.
Then he laid stiller, and didn't make a sound. I could hear the owls and the wolves away off in the woods, and it seemed terrible still.
He was laying over by the corner.
By-and-by he raised up part way and listened, with his head to one side.
He says, very low: "Tramp-tramp-tramp; that's the dead; tramp-tramp-tramp; they're coming after me; but I won't go.
Oh, they're here! don't touch me-don't! hands off-they're cold; let go.
I could hear him through the blanket. By-and-by he rolled out and jumped up on his feet looking wild, and he see me and went for me.
He chased me round and round the place with a clasp-knife, calling me the Angel of Death, and saying he would kill me, and then I couldn't come for him no more.
I begged, and told him I was only Huck; but he laughed _such_ a screechy laugh, and roared and cussed, and kept on chasing me up.
Pretty soon he was all tired out, and dropped down with his back against the door, and said he would rest a minute and then kill me.
He put his knife under him, and said he would sleep and get strong, and then he would see who was who. So he dozed off pretty soon.
By-and-by I got the old split-bottom chair and clumb up as easy as I could, not to make any noise, and got down the gun.
I slipped the ramrod down it to make sure it was loaded, then I laid it across the turnip barrel, pointing towards pap, and set down behind it to wait for him to stir.
And how slow and still the time did drag along. CHAPTER VII. "Git up!
What you 'bout?" I opened my eyes and looked around, trying to make out where I was.
It was after sun-up, and I had been sound asleep.
Pap was standing over me looking sour and sick, too.
Don't stand there palavering all day, but out with you and see if there's a fish on the lines for breakfast.
I'll be along in a minute." He unlocked the door, and I cleared out up the river-bank.
I noticed some pieces of limbs and such things floating down, and a sprinkling of bark; so I knowed the river had begun to rise.
I reckoned I would have great times now if I was over at the town.
Well, all at once here comes a canoe; just a beauty, too, about thirteen or fourteen foot long, riding high like a duck.
I shot head-first off of the bank like a frog, clothes and all on, and struck out for the canoe.
I just expected there'd be somebody laying down in it, because people often done that to fool folks, and when a chap had pulled a skiff out most to it they'd raise up and laugh at him.
But it warn't so this time.
It was a drift-canoe sure enough, and I clumb in and paddled her ashore.
So he hadn't seen anything. When he got along I was hard at it taking up a "trot" line.
He abused me a little for being so slow; but I told him I fell in the river, and that was what made me so long.
I knowed he would see I was wet, and then he would be asking questions.
Well, I didn't see no way for a while, but by-and-by pap raised up a minute to drink another barrel of water, and he says: "Another time a man comes a-prowling round here you roust me out, you hear?
That man warn't here for no good.
Next time you roust me out, you hear?" Then he dropped down and went to sleep again; but what he had been saying give me the very idea I wanted.
I says to myself, I can fix it now so nobody won't think of following me. About twelve o'clock we turned out and went along up the bank.
The river was coming up pretty fast, and lots of driftwood going by on the rise.
By-and-by along comes part of a log raft-nine logs fast together. We went out with the skiff and towed it ashore.
Then we had dinner. Anybody but pap would a waited and seen the day through, so as to catch more stuff; but that warn't pap's style.
Nine logs was enough for one time; he must shove right over to town and sell.
So he locked me in and took the skiff, and started off towing the raft about half-past three. I judged he wouldn't come back that night.
I waited till I reckoned he had got a good start; then I out with my saw, and went to work on that log again.
I took fish-lines and matches and other things-everything that was worth a cent.
I cleaned out the place.
I wanted an axe, but there wasn't any, only the one out at the woodpile, and I knowed why I was going to leave that.
I fetched out the gun, and now I was done. I had wore the ground a good deal crawling out of the hole and dragging out so many things.
So I fixed that as good as I could from the outside by scattering dust on the place, which covered up the smoothness and the sawdust.
Then I fixed the piece of log back into its place, and put two rocks under it and one against it to hold it there, for it was bent up at that place and didn't quite touch ground.
I followed around to see.
I stood on the bank and looked out over the river.
I shot this fellow and took him into camp. I took the axe and smashed in the door.
I beat it and hacked it considerable a-doing it.
You could easy see that something had been dragged over the ground.
I did wish Tom Sawyer was there; I knowed he would take an interest in this kind of business, and throw in the fancy touches.
Then I took up the pig and held him to my breast with my jacket (so he couldn't drip) till I got a good piece below the house and then dumped him into the river.
Now I thought of something else.
The meal sifted out and made a little track all the way to the lake.
I dropped pap's whetstone there too, so as to look like it had been done by accident.
I made fast to a willow; then I took a bite to eat, and by-and-by laid down in the canoe to smoke a pipe and lay out a plan.
I says to myself, they'll follow the track of that sackful of rocks to the shore and then drag the river for me.
And they'll follow that meal track to the lake and go browsing down the creek that leads out of it to find the robbers that killed me and took the things.
They won't ever hunt the river for anything but my dead carcass.
They'll soon get tired of that, and won't bother no more about me.
All right; I can stop anywhere I want to. Jackson's Island is good enough for me; I know that island pretty well, and nobody ever comes there.
And then I can paddle over to town nights, and slink around and pick up things I want.
Jackson's Island's the place. I was pretty tired, and the first thing I knowed I was asleep.
When I woke up I didn't know where I was for a minute.
I set up and looked around, a little scared.
The river looked miles and miles across.
The moon was so bright I could a counted the drift logs that went a-slipping along, black and still, hundreds of yards out from shore.
Pretty soon I made it out.
It was that dull kind of a regular sound that comes from oars working in rowlocks when it's a still night.
I peeped out through the willow branches, and there it was-a skiff, away across the water.
I couldn't tell how many was in it.
It kept a-coming, and when it was abreast of me I see there warn't but one man in it.
Think's I, maybe it's pap, though I warn't expecting him.
The next minute I was a-spinning down stream soft but quick in the shade of the bank.
The sky looks ever so deep when you lay down on your back in the moonshine; I never knowed it before. And how far a body can hear on the water such nights!
I heard people talking at the ferry landing.
I heard what they said, too-every word of it.
One man said it was getting towards the long days and the short nights now.
The first fellow said he 'lowed to tell it to his old woman-she would think it was pretty good; but he said that warn't nothing to some things he had said in his time.
I heard one man say it was nearly three o'clock, and he hoped daylight wouldn't wait more than about a week longer.
I rose up, and there was Jackson's Island, about two mile and a half down stream, heavy timbered and standing up out of the middle of the river, big and dark and solid, like a steamboat without any lights.
There warn't any signs of the bar at the head-it was all under water now. It didn't take me long to get there.
I shot past the head at a ripping rate, the current was so swift, and then I got into the dead water and landed on the side towards the Illinois shore.
A monstrous big lumber-raft was about a mile up stream, coming along down, with a lantern in the middle of it.
I watched it come creeping down, and when it was most abreast of where I stood I heard a man say, "Stern oars, there! heave her head to stabboard!
I laid there in the grass and the cool shade thinking about things, and feeling rested and ruther comfortable and satisfied.
I could see the sun out at one or two holes, but mostly it was big trees all about, and gloomy in there amongst them.
There was freckled places on the ground where the light sifted down through the leaves, and the freckled places swapped about a little, showing there was a little breeze up there.
A couple of squirrels set on a limb and jabbered at me very friendly. I was powerful lazy and comfortable-didn't want to get up and cook breakfast.
Well, I was dozing off again when I thinks I hears a deep sound of "boom!" away up the river.
I rouses up, and rests on my elbow and listens; pretty soon I hears it again.
I hopped up, and went and looked out at a hole in the leaves, and I see a bunch of smoke laying on the water a long ways up-about abreast the ferry.
And there was the ferry-boat full of people floating along down.
I knowed what was the matter now.
I see the white smoke squirt out of the ferry-boat's side.
You see, they was firing cannon over the water, trying to make my carcass come to the top. I was pretty hungry, but it warn't going to do for me to start a fire, because they might see the smoke.
So I set there and watched the cannon-smoke and listened to the boom.
The river was a mile wide there, and it always looks pretty on a summer morning-so I was having a good enough time seeing them hunt for my remainders if I only had a bite to eat.
Well, then I happened to think how they always put quicksilver in loaves of bread and float them off, because they always go right to the drownded carcass and stop there.
So, says I, I'll keep a lookout, and if any of them's floating around after me I'll give them a show.
I changed to the Illinois edge of the island to see what luck I could have, and I warn't disappointed.
A big double loaf come along, and I most got it with a long stick, but my foot slipped and she floated out further.
Of course I was where the current set in the closest to the shore-I knowed enough for that.
But by-and-by along comes another one, and this time I won.
And then something struck me.
I says, now I reckon the widow or the parson or somebody prayed that this bread would find me, and here it has gone and done it.
The ferry-boat was floating with the current, and I allowed I'd have a chance to see who was aboard when she come along, because she would come in close, where the bread did.
Most everybody was on the boat.
Pap, and Judge Thatcher, and Bessie Thatcher, and Jo Harper, and Tom Sawyer, and his old Aunt Polly, and Sid and Mary, and plenty more.
Everybody was talking about the murder, but the captain broke in and says: "Look sharp, now; the current sets in the closest here, and maybe he's washed ashore and got tangled amongst the brush at the water's edge.
I hope so, anyway." I didn't hope so.
They all crowded up and leaned over the rails, nearly in my face, and kept still, watching with all their might.
I could see them first-rate, but they couldn't see me.
Then the captain sung out: "Stand away!" and the cannon let off such a blast right before me that it made me deef with the noise and pretty near blind with the smoke, and I judged I was gone.
If they'd a had some bullets in, I reckon they'd a got the corpse they was after.
Well, I see I warn't hurt, thanks to goodness.
The boat floated on and went out of sight around the shoulder of the island.
I could hear the booming now and then, further and further off, and by-and-by, after an hour, I didn't hear it no more.
The island was three mile long.
I judged they had got to the foot, and was giving it up.
But they didn't yet a while.
They turned around the foot of the island and started up the channel on the Missouri side, under steam, and booming once in a while as they went.
I crossed over to that side and watched them.
When they got abreast the head of the island they quit shooting and dropped over to the Missouri shore and went home to the town. I knowed I was all right now.
Nobody else would come a-hunting after me.
I got my traps out of the canoe and made me a nice camp in the thick woods.
I made a kind of a tent out of my blankets to put my things under so the rain couldn't get at them.
I catched a catfish and haggled him open with my saw, and towards sundown I started my camp fire and had supper.
No difference-just the same thing. But the next day I went exploring around down through the island.
I was boss of it; it all belonged to me, so to say, and I wanted to know all about it; but mainly I wanted to put in the time.
I found plenty strawberries, ripe and prime; and green summer grapes, and green razberries; and the green blackberries was just beginning to show.
They would all come handy by-and-by, I judged. Well, I went fooling along in the deep woods till I judged I warn't far from the foot of the island.
I had my gun along, but I hadn't shot nothing; it was for protection; thought I would kill some game nigh home.
About this time I mighty near stepped on a good-sized snake, and it went sliding off through the grass and flowers, and I after it, trying to get a shot at it.
I clipped along, and all of a sudden I bounded right on to the ashes of a camp fire that was still smoking. My heart jumped up amongst my lungs.
I never waited for to look further, but uncocked my gun and went sneaking back on my tiptoes as fast as ever I could.
Every now and then I stopped a second amongst the thick leaves and listened, but my breath come so hard I couldn't hear nothing else.
I slunk along another piece further, then listened again; and so on, and so on.
Well, I couldn't stay up there forever; so at last I got down, but I kept in the thick woods and on the lookout all the time.
All I could get to eat was berries and what was left over from breakfast. By the time it was night I was pretty hungry.
So when it was good and dark I slid out from shore before moonrise and paddled over to the Illinois bank-about a quarter of a mile.
I got everything into the canoe as quick as I could, and then went creeping through the woods to see what I could find out.
I hadn't got far when I hear a man say: "We better camp here if we can find a good place; the horses is about beat out.
Let's look around." I didn't wait, but shoved out and paddled away easy.
I tied up in the old place, and reckoned I would sleep in the canoe. I didn't sleep much.
I couldn't, somehow, for thinking.
And every time I waked up I thought somebody had me by the neck.
So the sleep didn't do me no good.
By-and-by I says to myself, I can't live this way; I'm a-going to find out who it is that's here on the island with me; I'll find it out or bust.
Well, I felt better right off. So I took my paddle and slid out from shore just a step or two, and then let the canoe drop along down amongst the shadows.
The moon was shining, and outside of the shadows it made it most as light as day.
I poked along well on to an hour, everything still as rocks and sound asleep.
Well, by this time I was most down to the foot of the island.
A little ripply, cool breeze begun to blow, and that was as good as saying the night was about done.
I give her a turn with the paddle and brung her nose to shore; then I got my gun and slipped out and into the edge of the woods.
I sat down there on a log, and looked out through the leaves.
I see the moon go off watch, and the darkness begin to blanket the river.
But in a little while I see a pale streak over the treetops, and knowed the day was coming.
So I took my gun and slipped off towards where I had run across that camp fire, stopping every minute or two to listen.
But I hadn't no luck somehow; I couldn't seem to find the place.
But by-and-by, sure enough, I catched a glimpse of fire away through the trees.
I went for it, cautious and slow. By-and-by I was close enough to have a look, and there laid a man on the ground.
It most give me the fan-tods.
He had a blanket around his head, and his head was nearly in the fire.
I set there behind a clump of bushes, in about six foot of him, and kept my eyes on him steady.
It was getting gray daylight now.
Pretty soon he gapped and stretched himself and hove off the blanket, and it was Miss Watson's Jim!
I bet I was glad to see him.
I says: "Hello, Jim!" and skipped out. He bounced up and stared at me wild.
Then he drops down on his knees, and puts his hands together and says: "Doan' hurt me-don't!
I hain't ever done no harm to a ghos'.
I alwuz liked dead people, en done all I could for 'em.
You go en git in de river agin, whah you b'longs, en doan' do nuffn to Ole Jim, 'at 'uz awluz yo' fren'." Well, I warn't long making him understand I warn't dead.
I was ever so glad to see Jim.
I told him I warn't afraid of _him_ telling the people where I was.
I talked along, but he only set there and looked at me; never said nothing.
Then I says: "It's good daylight.
Make up your camp fire good." "What's de use er makin' up de camp fire to cook strawbries en sich truck?
But you got a gun, hain't you?
Den we kin git sumfn better den strawbries." "Strawberries and such truck," I says.
How long you ben on de islan'?" "Since the night I got killed." "No!
W'y, what has you lived on?
But you got a gun.
Oh, yes, you got a gun.
Then when we had got pretty well stuffed, we laid off and lazied.
By-and-by Jim says: "But looky here, Huck, who wuz it dat 'uz killed in dat shanty ef it warn't you?" Then I told him the whole thing, and he said it was smart.
He said Tom Sawyer couldn't get up no better plan than what I had.
Then I says: "How do you come to be here, Jim, and how'd you get here?" He looked pretty uneasy, and didn't say nothing for a minute.
Then he says: "Maybe I better not tell." "Why, Jim?" "Well, dey's reasons.
But you wouldn' tell on me ef I uz to tell you, would you, Huck?" "Blamed if I would, Jim." "Well, I b'lieve you, Huck.
I-I _run off_." "Jim!" "But mind, you said you wouldn' tell-you know you said you wouldn' tell, Huck." "Well, I did.
I said I wouldn't, and I'll stick to it.
People would call me a low-down Abolitionist and despise me for keeping mum-but that don't make no difference.
I ain't a-going to tell, and I ain't a-going back there, anyways.
So, now, le's know all about it." "Well, you see, it 'uz dis way.
Ole missus-dat's Miss Watson-she pecks on me all de time, en treats me pooty rough, but she awluz said she wouldn' sell me down to Orleans.
But I noticed dey wuz a nigger trader roun' de place considable lately, en I begin to git oneasy.
De widder she try to git her to say she wouldn' do it, but I never waited to hear de res'.
Well, I wuz dah all night.
Dese las' skifts wuz full o' ladies en genlmen a-goin' over for to see de place.
Sometimes dey'd pull up at de sho' en take a res' b'fo' dey started acrost, so by de talk I got to know all 'bout de killin'.
I 'uz powerful sorry you's killed, Huck, but I ain't no mo' now. "I laid dah under de shavin's all day.
I'd made up my mine 'bout what I's agwyne to do.
Den I swum to de stern uv it en tuck a-holt.
It clouded up en 'uz pooty dark for a little while.
So I clumb up en laid down on de planks.
De men 'uz all 'way yonder in de middle, whah de lantern wuz.
When we 'uz mos' down to de head er de islan' a man begin to come aft wid de lantern, I see it warn't no use fer to wait, so I slid overboard en struck out fer de islan'.
Well, I had a notion I could lan' mos' anywhers, but I couldn't-bank too bluff. I 'uz mos' to de foot er de islan' b'fo' I found' a good place.
I went into de woods en jedged I wouldn' fool wid raffs no mo', long as dey move de lantern roun' so.
I had my pipe en a plug er dog-leg, en some matches in my cap, en dey warn't wet, so I 'uz all right." "And so you ain't had no meat nor bread to eat all this time?
Why didn't you get mud-turkles?" "How you gwyne to git 'm?
You can't slip up on um en grab um; en how's a body gwyne to hit um wid a rock?
How could a body do it in de night? En I warn't gwyne to show mysef on de bank in de daytime." "Well, that's so.
You've had to keep in the woods all the time, of course.
Did you hear 'em shooting the cannon?" "Oh, yes.
I knowed dey was arter you.
I see um go by heah-watched um thoo de bushes." Some young birds come along, flying a yard or two at a time and lighting.
Jim said it was a sign it was going to rain.
He said it was a sign when young chickens flew that way, and so he reckoned it was the same way when young birds done it.
I was going to catch some of them, but Jim wouldn't let me.
He said it was death.
The same if you shook the table-cloth after sundown.
Jim knowed all kinds of signs.
He said he knowed most everything.
I said it looked to me like all the signs was about bad luck, and so I asked him if there warn't any good-luck signs.
He says: "Mighty few-an' _dey_ ain't no use to a body.
What you want to know when good luck's a-comin' for?
Want to keep it off?
And he said: "Ef you's got hairy arms en a hairy breas', it's a sign dat you's agwyne to be rich.
Well, dey's some use in a sign like dat, 'kase it's so fur ahead.
Don't you see I has?" "Well, are you rich?" "No, but I ben rich wunst, and gwyne to be rich agin.
Wunst I had foteen dollars, but I tuck to specalat'n', en got busted out." "What did you speculate in, Jim?" "Well, fust I tackled stock." "What kind of stock?" "Why, live stock-cattle, you know.
I put ten dollars in a cow.
But I ain' gwyne to resk no mo' money in stock.
De cow up 'n' died on my han's." "So you lost the ten dollars." "No, I didn't lose it all.
I on'y los' 'bout nine of it.
I sole de hide en taller for a dollar en ten cents." "You had five dollars and ten cents left.
Did you speculate any more?" "Yes.
You know that one-laigged nigger dat b'longs to old Misto Bradish?
Well, he sot up a bank, en say anybody dat put in a dollar would git fo' dollars mo' at de en' er de year.
Well, all de niggers went in, but dey didn't have much.
I wuz de on'y one dat had much.
So I stuck out for mo' dan fo' dollars, en I said 'f I didn' git it I'd start a bank mysef.
Den I reck'n'd I'd inves' de thirty-five dollars right off en keep things a-movin'.
But he's lucky, dey say, en I see I warn't lucky.
De dream say let Balum inves' de ten cents en he'd make a raise for me.
Well, Balum he tuck de money, en when he wuz in church he hear de preacher say dat whoever give to de po' len' to de Lord, en boun' to git his money back a hund'd times.
So Balum he tuck en give de ten cents to de po', en laid low to see what wuz gwyne to come of it." "Well, what did come of it, Jim?" "Nuffn never come of it.
I couldn' manage to k'leck dat money no way; en Balum he couldn'.
I ain' gwyne to len' no mo' money 'dout I see de security.
I owns mysef, en I's wuth eight hund'd dollars.
We had a rough time getting to the top, the sides was so steep and the bushes so thick.
We tramped and clumb around all over it, and by-and-by found a good big cavern in the rock, most up to the top on the side towards Illinois.
The cavern was as big as two or three rooms bunched together, and Jim could stand up straight in it.
It was cool in there.
Then we hunted up a place close by to hide the canoe in, amongst the thick willows.
So we built it there and cooked dinner. We spread the blankets inside for a carpet, and eat our dinner in there.
We put all the other things handy at the back of the cavern. Pretty soon it darkened up, and begun to thunder and lighten; so the birds was right about it.
Directly it begun to rain, and it rained like all fury, too, and I never see the wind blow so.
It was one of these regular summer storms.
I wouldn't want to be nowhere else but here.
Pass me along another hunk of fish and some hot corn-bread." "Well, you wouldn't a ben here 'f it hadn't a ben for Jim.
You'd a ben down dah in de woods widout any dinner, en gittn' mos' drownded, too; dat you would, honey.
Chickens knows when it's gwyne to rain, en so do de birds, chile." The river went on raising and raising for ten or twelve days, till at last it was over the banks.
The water was three or four foot deep on the island in the low places and on the Illinois bottom.
The ridge our cavern was in was full of them.
We could a had pets enough if we'd wanted them. One night we catched a little section of a lumber raft-nice pine planks.
She was a two-story, and tilted over considerable.
We paddled out and got aboard-clumb in at an upstairs window.
But it was too dark to see yet, so we made the canoe fast and set in her to wait for daylight. The light begun to come before we got to the foot of the island.
Then we looked in at the window.
We could make out a bed, and a table, and two old chairs, and lots of things around about on the floor, and there was clothes hanging against the wall.
There was something laying on the floor in the far corner that looked like a man.
So Jim says: "Hello, you!" But it didn't budge.
So I hollered again, and then Jim says: "De man ain't asleep-he's dead.
You hold still-I'll go en see." He went, and bent down and looked, and says: "It's a dead man.
He's ben shot in de back.
I reck'n he's ben dead two er three days.
Come in, Huck, but doan' look at his face-it's too gashly." I didn't look at him at all.
Jim throwed some old rags over him, but he needn't done it; I didn't want to see him.
We put the lot into the canoe-it might come good.
There was a boy's old speckled straw hat on the floor; I took that, too.
And there was a bottle that had had milk in it, and it had a rag stopper for a baby to suck.
We would a took the bottle, but it was broke.
There was a seedy old chest, and an old hair trunk with the hinges broke.
I paddled over to the Illinois shore, and drifted down most a half a mile doing it.
I crept up the dead water under the bank, and hadn't no accidents and didn't see nobody.
We got home all safe. CHAPTER X. After breakfast I wanted to talk about the dead man and guess out how he come to be killed, but Jim didn't want to.
He said it would fetch bad luck; and besides, he said, he might come and ha'nt us; he said a man that warn't buried was more likely to go a-ha'nting around than one that was planted and comfortable.
Jim said he reckoned the people in that house stole the coat, because if they'd a knowed the money was there they wouldn't a left it.
I said I reckoned they killed him, too; but Jim didn't want to talk about that.
I says: "Now you think it's bad luck; but what did you say when I fetched in the snake-skin that I found on the top of the ridge day before yesterday?
You said it was the worst bad luck in the world to touch a snake-skin with my hands.
Well, here's your bad luck!
We've raked in all this truck and eight dollars besides.
I wish we could have some bad luck like this every day, Jim." "Never you mind, honey, never you mind.
Don't you git too peart.
Mind I tell you, it's a-comin'." It did come, too.
It was a Tuesday that we had that talk.
Well, after dinner Friday we was laying around in the grass at the upper end of the ridge, and got out of tobacco.
I went to the cavern to get some, and found a rattlesnake in there.
I killed him, and curled him up on the foot of Jim's blanket, ever so natural, thinking there'd be some fun when Jim found him there.
I laid him out in a second with a stick, and Jim grabbed pap's whisky-jug and begun to pour it down. He was barefooted, and the snake bit him right on the heel.
That all comes of my being such a fool as to not remember that wherever you leave a dead snake its mate always comes there and curls around it.
Jim told me to chop off the snake's head and throw it away, and then skin the body and roast a piece of it.
I done it, and he eat it and said it would help cure him.
He made me take off the rattles and tie them around his wrist, too.
He said that that would help.
Then the swelling was all gone and he was around again.
I made up my mind I wouldn't ever take a-holt of a snake-skin again with my hands, now that I see what had come of it.
Jim said he reckoned I would believe him next time.
And he said that handling a snake-skin was such awful bad luck that maybe we hadn't got to the end of it yet.
He said he druther see the new moon over his left shoulder as much as a thousand times than take up a snake-skin in his hand.
We couldn't handle him, of course; he would a flung us into Illinois.
We just set there and watched him rip and tear around till he drownded.
We found a brass button in his stomach and a round ball, and lots of rubbage.
We split the ball open with the hatchet, and there was a spool in it.
Jim said he'd had it there a long time, to coat it over so and make a ball of it.
It was as big a fish as was ever catched in the Mississippi, I reckon.
Jim said he hadn't ever seen a bigger one.
He would a been worth a good deal over at the village.
I said I reckoned I would slip over the river and find out what was going on.
Jim liked that notion; but he said I must go in the dark and look sharp.
Then he studied it over and said, couldn't I put on some of them old things and dress up like a girl? That was a good notion, too.
So we shortened up one of the calico gowns, and I turned up my trouser-legs to my knees and got into it.
Jim hitched it behind with the hooks, and it was a fair fit.
I put on the sun-bonnet and tied it under my chin, and then for a body to look in and see my face was like looking down a joint of stove-pipe.
Jim said nobody would know me, even in the daytime, hardly.
I tied up and started along the bank.
There was a light burning in a little shanty that hadn't been lived in for a long time, and I wondered who had took up quarters there.
I slipped up and peeped in at the window.
There was a woman about forty year old in there knitting by a candle that was on a pine table.
I didn't know her face; she was a stranger, for you couldn't start a face in that town that I didn't know.
Now this was lucky, because I was weakening; I was getting afraid I had come; people might know my voice and find me out.
She says: "Take a cheer." I done it.
She looked me all over with her little shiny eyes, and says: "What might your name be?" "Sarah Williams." "Where 'bouts do you live?
In Hookerville, seven mile below.
I've walked all the way and I'm all tired out." "Hungry, too, I reckon.
I'll find you something." "No'm, I ain't hungry.
I was so hungry I had to stop two miles below here at a farm; so I ain't hungry no more.
It's what makes me so late. My mother's down sick, and out of money and everything, and I come to tell my uncle Abner Moore.
He lives at the upper end of the town, she says.
I hain't ever been here before.
Do you know him?" "No; but I don't know everybody yet.
I haven't lived here quite two weeks.
It's a considerable ways to the upper end of the town.
You better stay here all night.
Take off your bonnet." "No," I says; "I'll rest a while, I reckon, and go on.
I ain't afeared of the dark." She said she wouldn't let me go by myself, but her husband would be in by-and-by, maybe in a hour and a half, and she'd send him along with me.
I says: "Who done it?
We've heard considerable about these goings on down in Hookerville, but we don't know who 'twas that killed Huck Finn." "Well, I reckon there's a right smart chance of people _here_ that'd like to know who killed him.
Some think old Finn done it himself." "No-is that so?" "Most everybody thought it at first.
He'll never know how nigh he come to getting lynched.
But before night they changed around and judged it was done by a runaway nigger named Jim." "Why _he_-" I stopped.
I reckoned I better keep still.
She run on, and never noticed I had put in at all: "The nigger run off the very night Huck Finn was killed.
So there's a reward out for him-three hundred dollars.
And there's a reward out for old Finn, too-two hundred dollars.
You see, he come to town the morning after the murder, and told about it, and was out with 'em on the ferry-boat hunt, and right away after he up and left.
Before night they wanted to lynch him, but he was gone, you see.
Well, next day they found out the nigger was gone; they found out he hadn't ben seen sence ten o'clock the night the murder was done.
So then they put it on him, you see; and while they was full of it, next day, back comes old Finn, and went boo-hooing to Judge Thatcher to get money to hunt for the nigger all over Illinois with.
The judge gave him some, and that evening he got drunk, and was around till after midnight with a couple of mighty hard-looking strangers, and then went off with them.
Oh, he's sly, I reckon. If he don't come back for a year he'll be all right.
You can't prove anything on him, you know; everything will be quieted down then, and he'll walk in Huck's money as easy as nothing." "Yes, I reckon so, 'm.
I don't see nothing in the way of it.
Has everybody quit thinking the nigger done it?" "Oh, no, not everybody.
A good many thinks he done it.
But they'll get the nigger pretty soon now, and maybe they can scare it out of him." "Why, are they after him yet?" "Well, you're innocent, ain't you!
Does three hundred dollars lay around every day for people to pick up?
Some folks think the nigger ain't far from here.
I'm one of them-but I hain't talked it around.
A few days ago I was talking with an old couple that lives next door in the log shanty, and they happened to say hardly anybody ever goes to that island over yonder that they call Jackson's Island.
Don't anybody live there? says I.
I didn't say any more, but I done some thinking.
I hain't seen any smoke sence, so I reckon maybe he's gone, if it was him; but husband's going over to see-him and another man.
He was gone up the river; but he got back to-day, and I told him as soon as he got here two hours ago." I had got so uneasy I couldn't set still.
I had to do something with my hands; so I took up a needle off of the table and went to threading it. My hands shook, and I was making a bad job of it.
When the woman stopped talking I looked up, and she was looking at me pretty curious and smiling a little.
I put down the needle and thread, and let on to be interested-and I was, too-and says: "Three hundred dollars is a power of money.
I wish my mother could get it.
Is your husband going over there to-night?" "Oh, yes.
He went up-town with the man I was telling you of, to get a boat and see if they could borrow another gun.
They'll go over after midnight." "Couldn't they see better if they was to wait till daytime?" "Yes.
And couldn't the nigger see better, too?
I wished the woman would say something more; the longer she set still the uneasier I was.
But now she says: "Honey, I thought you said it was Sarah when you first come in?" "Oh, yes'm, I did.
Some calls me Sarah, some calls me Mary." "Oh, that's the way of it?" "Yes'm." I was feeling better then, but I wished I was out of there, anyway.
She was right about the rats.
You'd see one stick his nose out of a hole in the corner every little while.
But she watched for a chance, and directly banged away at a rat; but she missed him wide, and said "Ouch!" it hurt her arm so.
Then she told me to try for the next one.
I wanted to be getting away before the old man got back, but of course I didn't let on.
I got the thing, and the first rat that showed his nose I let drive, and if he'd a stayed where he was he'd a been a tolerable sick rat.
She said that was first-rate, and she reckoned I would hive the next one.
She went and got the lump of lead and fetched it back, and brought along a hank of yarn which she wanted me to help her with.
I held up my two hands and she put the hank over them, and went on talking about her and her husband's matters.
But she broke off to say: "Keep your eye on the rats.
You better have the lead in your lap, handy." So she dropped the lump into my lap just at that moment, and I clapped my legs together on it and she went on talking.
But only about a minute.
Then she took off the hank and looked me straight in the face, and very pleasant, and says: "Come, now, what's your real name?" "Wh-what, mum?" "What's your real name?
Is it Bill, or Tom, or Bob?-or what is it?" I reckon I shook like a leaf, and I didn't know hardly what to do.
But I says: "Please to don't poke fun at a poor girl like me, mum.
If I'm in the way here, I'll-" "No, you won't.
Set down and stay where you are.
I ain't going to hurt you, and I ain't going to tell on you, nuther.
You just tell me your secret, and trust me.
I'll keep it; and, what's more, I'll help you. So'll my old man if you want him to.
You see, you're a runaway 'prentice, that's all.
There ain't no harm in it. You've been treated bad, and you made up your mind to cut.
Bless you, child, I wouldn't tell on you.
I traveled nights, and hid daytimes and slept, and the bag of bread and meat I carried from home lasted me all the way, and I had a-plenty.
I said I believed my uncle Abner Moore would take care of me, and so that was why I struck out for this town of Goshen. "Goshen, child?
Goshen's ten mile further up the river.
Who told you this was Goshen?" "Why, a man I met at daybreak this morning, just as I was going to turn into the woods for my regular sleep.
He told me when the roads forked I must take the right hand, and five mile would fetch me to Goshen." "He was drunk, I reckon.
He told you just exactly wrong." "Well, he did act like he was drunk, but it ain't no matter now.
I got to be moving along.
I'll fetch Goshen before daylight." "Hold on a minute.
I'll put you up a snack to eat.
You might want it." So she put me up a snack, and says: "Say, when a cow's laying down, which end of her gets up first?
Answer up prompt now-don't stop to study over it.
I thought maybe you was trying to hocus me again.
What's your real name, now?" "George Peters, mum." "Well, try to remember it, George.
Don't forget and tell me it's Elexander before you go, and then get out by saying it's George Elexander when I catch you.
And don't go about women in that old calico.
And when you throw at a rat or anything, hitch yourself up a tiptoe and fetch your hand up over your head as awkward as you can, and miss your rat about six or seven foot.
Throw stiff-armed from the shoulder, like there was a pivot there for it to turn on, like a girl; not from the wrist and elbow, with your arm out to one side, like a boy.
And, mind you, when a girl tries to catch anything in her lap she throws her knees apart; she don't clap them together, the way you did when you catched the lump of lead.
Why, I spotted you for a boy when you was threading the needle; and I contrived the other things just to make certain.
Now trot along to your uncle, Sarah Mary Williams George Elexander Peters, and if you get into trouble you send word to Mrs. Judith Loftus, which is me, and I'll do what I can to get you out of it.
Keep the river road all the way, and next time you tramp take shoes and socks with you.
I jumped in, and was off in a hurry.
I went up-stream far enough to make the head of the island, and then started across.
I took off the sun-bonnet, for I didn't want no blinders on then.
When I was about the middle I heard the clock begin to strike, so I stops and listens; the sound come faint over the water but clear-eleven.
I landed, and slopped through the timber and up the ridge and into the cavern.
There Jim laid, sound asleep on the ground.
I roused him out and says: "Git up and hump yourself, Jim!
There ain't a minute to lose.
They're after us!" Jim never asked no questions, he never said a word; but the way he worked for the next half an hour showed about how he was scared.
By that time everything we had in the world was on our raft, and she was ready to be shoved out from the willow cove where she was hid.
We was in ruther too much of a sweat to think of so many things.
It warn't good judgment to put _everything_ on the raft. If the men went to the island I just expect they found the camp fire I built, and watched it all night for Jim to come.
Anyways, they stayed away from us, and if my building the fire never fooled them it warn't no fault of mine.
We laid there all day, and watched the rafts and steamboats spin down the Missouri shore, and up-bound steamboats fight the big river in the middle.
Well, then, I said, why couldn't she tell her husband to fetch a dog?
Jim made a floor for the wigwam, and raised it a foot or more above the level of the raft, so now the blankets and all the traps was out of reach of steamboat waves.
We made an extra steering-oar, too, because one of the others might get broke on a snag or something.
We catched fish and talked, and we took a swim now and then to keep off sleepiness.
The fifth night we passed St. Louis, and it was like the whole world lit up.
In St. Petersburg they used to say there was twenty or thirty thousand people in St. Louis, but I never believed it till I see that wonderful spread of lights at two o'clock that still night.
Pap always said, take a chicken when you get a chance, because if you don't want him yourself you can easy find somebody that does, and a good deed ain't ever forgot.
So we talked it over all one night, drifting along down the river, trying to make up our minds whether to drop the watermelons, or the cantelopes, or the mushmelons, or what.
But towards daylight we got it all settled satisfactory, and concluded to drop crabapples and p'simmons.
We warn't feeling just right before that, but it was all comfortable now.
Take it all round, we lived pretty high. The fifth night below St. Louis we had a big storm after midnight, with a power of thunder and lightning, and the rain poured down in a solid sheet.
We stayed in the wigwam and let the raft take care of itself. When the lightning glared out we could see a big straight river ahead, and high, rocky bluffs on both sides.
By-and-by says I, "Hel-_lo_, Jim, looky yonder!
It was a steamboat that had killed herself on a rock.
We was drifting straight down for her.
The lightning showed her very distinct.
I wanted to get aboard of her and slink around a little, and see what there was there.
So I says: "Le's land on her, Jim." But Jim was dead against it at first.
He says: "I doan' want to go fool'n 'long er no wrack.
We's doin' blame' well, en we better let blame' well alone, as de good book says.
Jim couldn't say nothing to that, so he didn't try.
And besides," I says, "we might borrow something worth having out of the captain's stateroom. Seegars, _I_ bet you-and cost five cents apiece, solid cash.
Do you reckon Tom Sawyer would ever go by this thing?
Not for pie, he wouldn't.
He'd call it an adventure-that's what he'd call it; and he'd land on that wreck if it was his last act.
And wouldn't he throw style into it?-wouldn't he spread himself, nor nothing?
Why, you'd think it was Christopher C'lumbus discovering Kingdom-Come.
I wish Tom Sawyer _was_ here." Jim he grumbled a little, but give in. He said we mustn't talk any more than we could help, and then talk mighty low.
The lightning showed us the wreck again just in time, and we fetched the stabboard derrick, and made fast there. The deck was high out here.
You've acted this way before.
You always want more'n your share of the truck, and you've always got it, too, because you've swore 't if you didn't you'd tell.
But this time you've said it jest one time too many.
You're the meanest, treacherousest hound in this country." By this time Jim was gone for the raft.
I was just a-biling with curiosity; and I says to myself, Tom Sawyer wouldn't back out now, and so I won't either; I'm a-going to see what's going on here.
So I dropped on my hands and knees in the little passage, and crept aft in the dark till there warn't but one stateroom betwixt me and the cross-hall of the texas.
And once he said: "Hear him beg! and yit if we hadn't got the best of him and tied him he'd a killed us both.
And what _for?_ Jist for noth'n.
Jist because we stood on our _rights_-that's what for.
But I lay you ain't a-goin' to threaten nobody any more, Jim Turner.
Put _up_ that pistol, Bill." Bill says: "I don't want to, Jake Packard.
I'm for killin' him-and didn't he kill old Hatfield jist the same way-and don't he deserve it?" "But I don't _want_ him killed, and I've got my reasons for it." "Bless yo' heart for them words, Jake Packard!
I crawfished as fast as I could about two yards, but the boat slanted so that I couldn't make very good time; so to keep from getting run over and catched I crawled into a stateroom on the upper side.
The man came a-pawing along in the dark, and when Packard got to my stateroom, he says: "Here-come in here." And in he come, and Bill after him.
But before they got in I was up in the upper berth, cornered, and sorry I come.
Then they stood there, with their hands on the ledge of the berth, and talked.
And, besides, a body _couldn't_ breathe and hear such talk.
They talked low and earnest.
Bill wanted to kill Turner.
He says: "He's said he'll tell, and he will.
If we was to give both our shares to him _now_ it wouldn't make no difference after the row and the way we've served him.
Shore's you're born, he'll turn State's evidence; now you hear _me_.
I'm for putting him out of his troubles." "So'm I," says Packard, very quiet. "Blame it, I'd sorter begun to think you wasn't.
Well, then, that's all right.
Le's go and do it." "Hold on a minute; I hain't had my say yit.
You listen to me. Shooting's good, but there's quieter ways if the thing's _got_ to be done.
But how you goin' to manage it this time?" "Well, my idea is this: we'll rustle around and gather up whatever pickins we've overlooked in the staterooms, and shove for shore and hide the truck.
Now I say it ain't a-goin' to be more'n two hours befo' this wrack breaks up and washes off down the river.
He'll be drownded, and won't have nobody to blame for it but his own self.
I reckon that's a considerble sight better 'n killin' of him.
I'm unfavorable to killin' a man as long as you can git aroun' it; it ain't good sense, it ain't good morals.
Ain't I right?" "Yes, I reck'n you are.
But if we find their boat we can put _all_ of 'em in a bad fix-for the Sheriff 'll get 'em. Quick-hurry!
I'll hunt the labboard side, you hunt the stabboard.
You start at the raft, and-" "Oh, my lordy, lordy! _Raf'?_ Dey ain' no raf' no mo'; she done broke loose en gone I-en here we is!" CHAPTER XIII. Well, I catched my breath and most fainted.
Shut up on a wreck with such a gang as that!
But it warn't no time to be sentimentering.
We'd _got_ to find that boat now-had to have it for ourselves.
So we went a-quaking and shaking down the stabboard side, and slow work it was, too-seemed a week before we got to the stern.
No sign of a boat.
Jim said he didn't believe he could go any further-so scared he hadn't hardly any strength left, he said.
But I said, come on, if we get left on this wreck we are in a fix, sure.
So on we prowled again.
We struck for the stern of the texas, and found it, and then scrabbled along forwards on the skylight, hanging on from shutter to shutter, for the edge of the skylight was in the water.
When we got pretty close to the cross-hall door, there was the skiff, sure enough!
I could just barely see her.
I felt ever so thankful.
In another second I would a been aboard of her, but just then the door opened.
Then Bill _he_ come out and got in. Packard says, in a low voice: "All ready-shove off!" I couldn't hardly hang on to the shutters, I was so weak.
But we got to have it anyway.
Come along." So they got out and went in. The door slammed to because it was on the careened side; and in a half second I was in the boat, and Jim come tumbling after me.
I out with my knife and cut the rope, and away we went! We didn't touch an oar, and we didn't speak nor whisper, nor hardly even breathe.
Now was the first time that I begun to worry about the men-I reckon I hadn't had time to before.
I begun to think how dreadful it was, even for murderers, to be in such a fix.
I says to myself, there ain't no telling but I might come to be a murderer myself yet, and then how would _I_ like it?
The rain poured down, and never a light showed; everybody in bed, I reckon.
We boomed along down the river, watching for lights and watching for our raft.
We seen a light now away down to the right, on shore.
So I said I would go for it.
The skiff was half full of plunder which that gang had stole there on the wreck.
As I got down towards it, three or four more showed-up on a hillside.
I closed in above the shore light, and laid on my oars and floated.
As I went by, I see it was a lantern hanging on the jackstaff of a double-hull ferry-boat.
I skimmed around for the watchman, a-wondering whereabouts he slept; and by-and-by I found him roosting on the bitts, forward, with his head down between his knees.
What's the trouble?" I says: "Pap, and mam, and sis, and-" Then I broke down.
He says: "Oh, dang it now, _don't_ take on so; we all has to have our troubles, and this'n 'll come out all right.
What's the matter with 'em?" "They're-they're-are you the watchman of the boat?" "Yes," he says, kind of pretty-well-satisfied like.
I'm the captain and the owner and the mate and the pilot and watchman and head deck-hand; and sometimes I'm the freight and passengers.
Says I-" I broke in and says: "They're in an awful peck of trouble, and-" "_Who_ is?" "Why, pap and mam and sis and Miss Hooker; and if you'd take your ferry-boat and go up there-" "Up where?
Why, great goodness, there ain't no chance for 'em if they don't git off mighty quick!
Why, how in the nation did they ever git into such a scrape?" "Easy enough.
It's the beatenest thing I ever struck.
And _then_ what did you all do?" "Well, we hollered and took on, but it's so wide there we couldn't make nobody hear.
So pap said somebody got to get ashore and get help somehow.
I was the only one that could swim, so I made a dash for it, and Miss Hooker she said if I didn't strike help sooner, come here and hunt up her uncle, and he'd fix the thing.
Now if you'll go and-" "By Jackson, I'd _like_ to, and, blame it, I don't know but I will; but who in the dingnation's a-going' to _pay_ for it?
Do you reckon your pap-" "Why _that's_ all right.
Miss Hooker she tole me, _particular_, that her uncle Hornback-" "Great guns! is _he_ her uncle?
And don't you fool around any, because he'll want to know the news.
Tell him I'll have his niece all safe before he can get to town.
But take it all around, I was feeling ruther comfortable on accounts of taking all this trouble for that gang, for not many would a done it.
I wished the widow knowed about it.
A kind of cold shiver went through me, and then I struck out for her.
She was very deep, and I see in a minute there warn't much chance for anybody being alive in her.
I pulled all around her and hollered a little, but there wasn't any answer; all dead still.
We hadn't ever been this rich before in neither of our lives.
We laid off all the afternoon in the woods talking, and me reading the books, and having a general good time.
I told Jim all about what happened inside the wreck and at the ferry-boat, and I said these kinds of things was adventures; but he said he didn't want no more adventures.
He says: "I didn' know dey was so many un um.
I hain't hearn 'bout none un um, skasely, but ole King Sollermun, onless you counts dem kings dat's in a pack er k'yards.
How much do a king git?" "Get?
I says; "why, they get a thousand dollars a month if they want it; they can have just as much as they want; everything belongs to them." "_Ain'_ dat gay?
En what dey got to do, Huck?" "_They_ don't do nothing!
They just set around." "No; is dat so?" "Of course it is.
They just set around-except, maybe, when there's a war; then they go to the war.
But mostly they hang round the harem." "Roun' de which?" "Harem." "What's de harem?" "The place where he keeps his wives.
Don't you know about the harem? Solomon had one; he had about a million wives." "Why, yes, dat's so; I-I'd done forgot it.
A harem's a bo'd'n-house, I reck'n.
Mos' likely dey has rackety times in de nussery.
En I reck'n de wives quarrels considable; en dat 'crease de racket.
Yit dey say Sollermun de wises' man dat ever live'.
I doan' take no stock in dat. Bekase why: would a wise man want to live in de mids' er sich a blim-blammin' all de time?
He had some er de dad-fetchedes' ways I ever see.
Does you know 'bout dat chile dat he 'uz gwyne to chop in two?" "Yes, the widow told me all about it." "_Well_, den!
Warn' dat de beatenes' notion in de worl'?
You jes' take en look at it a minute.
Dah's de stump, dah-dat's one er de women; heah's you-dat's de yuther one; I's Sollermun; en dish yer dollar bill's de chile.
Bofe un you claims it.
Does I shin aroun' mongs' de neighbors en fine out which un you de bill _do_ b'long to, en han' it over to de right one, all safe en soun', de way dat anybody dat had any gumption would?
No; I take en whack de bill in _two_, en give half un it to you, en de yuther half to de yuther woman. Dat's de way Sollermun was gwyne to do wid de chile.
Now I want to ast you: what's de use er dat half a bill?-can't buy noth'n wid it.
En what use is a half a chile?
I wouldn' give a dern for a million un um." "But hang it, Jim, you've clean missed the point-blame it, you've missed it a thousand mile." "Who?
Doan' talk to _me_ 'bout yo' pints.
Doan' talk to me 'bout Sollermun, Huck, I knows him by de back." "But I tell you you don't get the point." "Blame de point!
I reck'n I knows what I knows.
En mine you, de _real_ pint is down furder-it's down deeper.
It lays in de way Sollermun was raised.
You take a man dat's got on'y one or two chillen; is dat man gwyne to be waseful o' chillen?
No, he ain't; he can't 'ford it. _He_ know how to value 'em.
But you take a man dat's got 'bout five million chillen runnin' roun' de house, en it's diffunt. _He_ as soon chop a chile in two as a cat.
A chile er two, mo' er less, warn't no consekens to Sollermun, dad fatch him!" I never see such a nigger.
If he got a notion in his head once, there warn't no getting it out again.
He was the most down on Solomon of any nigger I ever see.
So I went to talking about other kings, and let Solomon slide.
But he'll be pooty lonesome-dey ain' no kings here, is dey, Huck?" "No." "Den he cain't git no situation.
What he gwyne to do?" "Well, I don't know.
How do dat come?" "_I_ don't know; but it's so.
I wouldn't 'low no nigger to call me dat." "Shucks, it ain't calling you anything.
It's only saying, do you know how to talk French?" "Well, den, why couldn't he _say_ it?" "Why, he _is_ a-saying it.
That's a Frenchman's _way_ of saying it." "Well, it's a blame ridicklous way, en I doan' want to hear no mo' 'bout it.
You answer me that." "Is a cat a man, Huck?" "No." "Well, den, dey ain't no sense in a cat talkin' like a man.
Is a cow a man?-er is a cow a cat?" "No, she ain't either of them." "Well, den, she ain't got no business to talk like either one er the yuther of 'em.
Is a Frenchman a man?" "Yes." "_Well_, den!
Dad blame it, why doan' he _talk_ like a man?
I see the fog closing down, and it made me so sick and scared I couldn't budge for most a half a minute it seemed to me-and then there warn't no raft in sight; you couldn't see twenty yards.
I jumped into the canoe and run back to the stern, and grabbed the paddle and set her back a stroke.
I was in such a hurry I hadn't untied her.
Away down there somewheres I hears a small whoop, and up comes my spirits.
I went tearing after it, listening sharp to hear it again.
The next time it come, I see I warn't heading for it, but heading away to the right of it.
Well, I fought along, and directly I hears the whoop _behind_ me.
I was tangled good now.
That was somebody else's whoop, or else I was turned around. I throwed the paddle down.
I set perfectly still then, listening to my heart thump, and I reckon I didn't draw a breath while it thumped a hundred. I just give up then.
I knowed what the matter was.
That cut bank was an island, and Jim had gone down t'other side of it.
It warn't no tow-head that you could float by in ten minutes.
It had the big timber of a regular island; it might be five or six miles long and more than half a mile wide. I kept quiet, with my ears cocked, about fifteen minutes, I reckon.
I was floating along, of course, four or five miles an hour; but you don't ever think of that.
Well, I warn't long loosing the whoops down amongst the tow-heads; and I only tried to chase them a little while, anyway, because it was worse than chasing a Jack-o'-lantern.
I reckoned Jim had fetched up on a snag, maybe, and it was all up with him.
I was good and tired, so I laid down in the canoe and said I wouldn't bother no more.
I looked away down-stream, and seen a black speck on the water.
I took after it; but when I got to it it warn't nothing but a couple of sawlogs made fast together.
Then I see another speck, and chased that; then another, and this time I was right.
It was the raft. When I got to it Jim was setting there with his head down between his knees, asleep, with his right arm hanging over the steering-oar.
The other oar was smashed off, and the raft was littered up with leaves and branches and dirt.
So she'd had a rough time. I made fast and laid down under Jim's nose on the raft, and began to gap, and stretch my fists out against Jim, and says: "Hello, Jim, have I been asleep?
Why didn't you stir me up?" "Goodness gracious, is dat you, Huck?
En you ain' dead-you ain' drownded-you's back agin?
It's too good for true, honey, it's too good for true.
Lemme look at you chile, lemme feel o' you.
No, you ain' dead! you's back agin, 'live en soun', jis de same ole Huck-de same ole Huck, thanks to goodness!" "What's the matter with you, Jim?
Why, what in the nation do you mean? _I_ hain't been gone anywheres.
Where would I go to?" "Well, looky here, boss, dey's sumf'n wrong, dey is.
Is I _me_, or who _is_ I?
Is I heah, or whah _is_ I?
Now dat's what I wants to know." "Well, I think you're here, plain enough, but I think you're a tangle-headed old fool, Jim." "I is, is I?
Well, you answer me dis: Didn't you tote out de line in de canoe fer to make fas' to de tow-head?" "No, I didn't.
I hain't see no tow-head." "You hain't seen no tow-head?
Looky here, didn't de line pull loose en de raf' go a-hummin' down de river, en leave you en de canoe behine in de fog?" "What fog?" "Why, _de_ fog!-de fog dat's been aroun' all night.
En didn't you whoop, en didn't I whoop, tell we got mix' up in de islands en one un us got los' en t'other one was jis' as good as los', 'kase he didn' know whah he wuz?
En didn't I bust up agin a lot er dem islands en have a turrible time en mos' git drownded?
Now ain' dat so, boss-ain't it so?
You answer me dat." "Well, this is too many for me, Jim.
I hain't seen no fog, nor no islands, nor no troubles, nor nothing.
I been setting here talking with you all night till you went to sleep about ten minutes ago, and I reckon I done the same.
I know, because I've been here all the time." Jim didn't say nothing for about five minutes, but set there studying over it.
Then he says: "Well, den, I reck'n I did dream it, Huck; but dog my cats ef it ain't de powerfullest dream I ever see.
En I hain't ever had no dream b'fo' dat's tired me like dis one." "Oh, well, that's all right, because a dream does tire a body like everything sometimes.
But this one was a staving dream; tell me all about it, Jim." So Jim went to work and told me the whole thing right through, just as it happened, only he painted it up considerable.
Then he said he must start in and "'terpret" it, because it was sent for a warning.
He said the first tow-head stood for a man that would try to do us some good, but the current was another man that would get us away from him.
The whoops was warnings that would come to us every now and then, and if we didn't try hard to make out to understand them they'd just take us into bad luck, 'stead of keeping us out of it.
You could see them first-rate now. Jim looked at the trash, and then looked at me, and back at the trash again.
He had got the dream fixed so strong in his head that he couldn't seem to shake it loose and get the facts back into its place again right away.
But when he did get the thing straightened around he looked at me steady without ever smiling, and says: "What do dey stan' for?
I'se gwyne to tell you.
When I got all wore out wid work, en wid de callin' for you, en went to sleep, my heart wuz mos' broke bekase you wuz los', en I didn' k'yer no' mo' what become er me en de raf'.
En when I wake up en fine you back agin, all safe en soun', de tears come, en I could a got down on my knees en kiss yo' foot, I's so thankful.
En all you wuz thinkin' 'bout wuz how you could make a fool uv ole Jim wid a lie.
She had four long sweeps at each end, so we judged she carried as many as thirty men, likely.
She had five big wigwams aboard, wide apart, and an open camp fire in the middle, and a tall flag-pole at each end.
There was a power of style about her.
It _amounted_ to something being a raftsman on such a craft as that. We went drifting down into a big bend, and the night clouded up and got hot.
The river was very wide, and was walled with solid timber on both sides; you couldn't see a break in it hardly ever, or a light.
We talked about Cairo, and wondered whether we would know it when we got to it.
I said likely we wouldn't, because I had heard say there warn't but about a dozen houses there, and if they didn't happen to have them lit up, how was we going to know we was passing a town?
Jim said if the two big rivers joined together there, that would show.
But I said maybe we might think we was passing the foot of an island and coming into the same old river again.
That disturbed Jim-and me too.
So the question was, what to do?
I said, paddle ashore the first time a light showed, and tell them pap was behind, coming along with a trading-scow, and was a green hand at the business, and wanted to know how far it was to Cairo.
Jim thought it was a good idea, so we took a smoke on it and waited. There warn't nothing to do now but to look out sharp for the town, and not pass it without seeing it.
He said he'd be mighty sure to see it, because he'd be a free man the minute he seen it, but if he missed it he'd be in a slave country again and no more show for freedom.
Every little while he jumps up and says: "Dah she is?" But it warn't.
It was Jack-o'-lanterns, or lightning bugs; so he set down again, and went to watching, same as before.
Jim said it made him all over trembly and feverish to be so close to freedom.
Well, I can tell you it made me all over trembly and feverish, too, to hear him, because I begun to get it through my head that he _was_ most free-and who was to blame for it?
I couldn't get that out of my conscience, no how nor no way.
It got to troubling me so I couldn't rest; I couldn't stay still in one place.
It hadn't ever come home to me before, what this thing was that I was doing.
But now it did; and it stayed with me, and scorched me more and more.
That was so-I couldn't get around that noway.
That was where it pinched.
Conscience says to me, "What had poor Miss Watson done to you that you could see her nigger go off right under your eyes and never say one single word?
What did that poor old woman do to you that you could treat her so mean?
I fidgeted up and down the raft, abusing myself to myself, and Jim was fidgeting up and down past me.
We neither of us could keep still.
He wouldn't ever dared to talk such talk in his life before.
Just see what a difference it made in him the minute he judged he was about free.
It was according to the old saying, "Give a nigger an inch and he'll take an ell.
Thinks I, this is what comes of my not thinking.
My conscience got to stirring me up hotter than ever, until at last I says to it, "Let up on me-it ain't too late yet-I'll paddle ashore at the first light and tell.
I felt easy and happy and light as a feather right off.
All my troubles was gone.
I went to looking out sharp for a light, and sort of singing to myself.
Jim sings out: "We's safe, Huck, we's safe!
Jump up and crack yo' heels!
Dat's de good ole Cairo at las', I jis knows it!" I says: "I'll take the canoe and go and see, Jim.
I went along slow then, and I warn't right down certain whether I was glad I started or whether I warn't.
When I was fifty yards off, Jim says: "Dah you goes, de ole true Huck; de on'y white genlman dat ever kep' his promise to ole Jim." Well, I just felt sick.
But I says, I _got_ to do it-I can't get _out_ of it.
Right then along comes a skiff with two men in it with guns, and they stopped and I stopped.
Is your man white or black?" I didn't answer up prompt.
I tried to, but the words wouldn't come.
I tried for a second or two to brace up and out with it, but I warn't man enough-hadn't the spunk of a rabbit.
He's sick-and so is mam and Mary Ann." "Oh, the devil! we're in a hurry, boy.
But I s'pose we've got to.
Come, buckle to your paddle, and let's get along." I buckled to my paddle and they laid to their oars.
When we had made a stroke or two, I says: "Pap'll be mighty much obleeged to you, I can tell you.
Everybody goes away when I want them to help me tow the raft ashore, and I can't do it by myself." "Well, that's infernal mean.
Say, boy, what's the matter with your father?" "It's the-a-the-well, it ain't anything much." They stopped pulling.
It warn't but a mighty little ways to the raft now.
One says: "Boy, that's a lie.
What _is_ the matter with your pap?
Answer up square now, and it'll be the better for you." "I will, sir, I will, honest-but don't leave us, please.
It's the-the-gentlemen, if you'll only pull ahead, and let me heave you the headline, you won't have to come a-near the raft-please do." "Set her back, John, set her back!" says one.
Keep away, boy-keep to looard.
Confound it, I just expect the wind has blowed it to us.
Your pap's got the small-pox, and you know it precious well.
Why didn't you come out and say so?
Do you want to spread it all over?" "Well," says I, a-blubbering, "I've told everybody before, and they just went away and left us." "Poor devil, there's something in that.
We are right down sorry for you, but we-well, hang it, we don't want the small-pox, you see.
Look here, I'll tell you what to do.
Don't you try to land by yourself, or you'll smash everything to pieces.
You float along down about twenty miles, and you'll come to a town on the left-hand side of the river.
It will be long after sun-up then, and when you ask for help you tell them your folks are all down with chills and fever.
Don't be a fool again, and let people guess what is the matter.
Now we're trying to do you a kindness; so you just put twenty miles between us, that's a good boy. It wouldn't do any good to land yonder where the light is-it's only a wood-yard.
Say, I reckon your father's poor, and I'm bound to say he's in pretty hard luck.
Here, I'll put a twenty-dollar gold piece on this board, and you get it when it floats by.
I feel mighty mean to leave you; but my kingdom! it won't do to fool with small-pox, don't you see?" "Hold on, Parker," says the other man, "here's a twenty to put on the board for me.
Good-bye, boy; you do as Mr. Parker told you, and you'll be all right." "That's so, my boy-good-bye, good-bye.
Then I thought a minute, and says to myself, hold on; s'pose you'd a done right and give Jim up, would you felt better than what you do now?
No, says I, I'd feel bad-I'd feel just the same way I do now.
Well, then, says I, what's the use you learning to do right when it's troublesome to do right and ain't no trouble to do wrong, and the wages is just the same?
So I reckoned I wouldn't bother no more about it, but after this always do whichever come handiest at the time. I went into the wigwam; Jim warn't there.
I looked all around; he warn't anywhere.
I says: "Jim!" "Here I is, Huck.
Is dey out o' sight yit?
Don't talk loud." He was in the river under the stern oar, with just his nose out.
I told him they were out of sight, so he come aboard.
He says: "I was a-listenin' to all de talk, en I slips into de river en was gwyne to shove for sho' if dey come aboard.
Den I was gwyne to swim to de raf' agin when dey was gone.
But lawsy, how you did fool 'em, Huck! Dat _wuz_ de smartes' dodge!
I tell you, chile, I 'speck it save' ole Jim-ole Jim ain't going to forgit you for dat, honey." Then we talked about the money.
It was a pretty good raise-twenty dollars apiece.
Jim said we could take deck passage on a steamboat now, and the money would last us as far as we wanted to go in the free States.
He said twenty mile more warn't far for the raft to go, but he wished we was already there. Towards daybreak we tied up, and Jim was mighty particular about hiding the raft good.
Pretty soon I found a man out in the river with a skiff, setting a trot-line.
I ranged up and says: "Mister, is that town Cairo?" "Cairo? no. You must be a blame' fool." "What town is it, mister?" "If you want to know, go and find out.
If you stay here botherin' around me for about a half a minute longer you'll get something you won't want." I paddled to the raft.
Jim was awful disappointed, but I said never mind, Cairo would be the next place, I reckoned. We passed another town before daylight, and I was going out again; but it was high ground, so I didn't go.
No high ground about Cairo, Jim said.
We laid up for the day on a tow-head tolerable close to the left-hand bank.
I begun to suspicion something.
I says: "Maybe we went by Cairo in the fog that night." He says: "Doan' le's talk about it, Huck.
Po' niggers can't have no luck.
I awluz 'spected dat rattlesnake-skin warn't done wid its work." "I wish I'd never seen that snake-skin, Jim-I do wish I'd never laid eyes on it." "It ain't yo' fault, Huck; you didn' know.
Don't you blame yo'self 'bout it." When it was daylight, here was the clear Ohio water inshore, sure enough, and outside was the old regular Muddy!
So it was all up with Cairo. We talked it all over.
It wouldn't do to take to the shore; we couldn't take the raft up the stream, of course.
There warn't no way but to wait for dark, and start back in the canoe and take the chances.
So we slept all day amongst the cottonwood thicket, so as to be fresh for the work, and when we went back to the raft about dark the canoe was gone! We didn't say a word for a good while.
There warn't anything to say.
We both knowed well enough it was some more work of the rattlesnake-skin; so what was the use to talk about it?
But we didn't see no rafts laying up; so we went along during three hours and more.
Well, the night got gray and ruther thick, which is the next meanest thing to fog.
You can't tell the shape of the river, and you can't see no distance.
It got to be very late and still, and then along comes a steamboat up the river.
We lit the lantern, and judged she would see it.
She aimed right for us.
Often they do that and try to see how close they can come without touching; sometimes the wheel bites off a sweep, and then the pilot sticks his head out and laughs, and thinks he's mighty smart.
Well, here she comes, and we said she was going to try and shave us; but she didn't seem to be sheering off a bit.
I could always stay under water a minute; this time I reckon I stayed under a minute and a half.
Then I bounced for the top in a hurry, for I was nearly busting.
I popped out to my armpits and blowed the water out of my nose, and puffed a bit.
I made a safe landing, and clumb up the bank.
I couldn't see but a little ways, but I went poking along over rough ground for a quarter of a mile or more, and then I run across a big old-fashioned double log-house before I noticed it.
Who's there?" I says: "It's me." "Who's me?" "George Jackson, sir." "What do you want?" "I don't want nothing, sir.
Strike a light there, somebody.
What did you say your name was?" "George Jackson, sir.
I'm only a boy." "Look here, if you're telling the truth you needn't be afraid-nobody'll hurt you.
But don't try to budge; stand right where you are.
Rouse out Bob and Tom, some of you, and fetch the guns.
Bob, if you and Tom are ready, take your places." "All ready." "Now, George Jackson, do you know the Shepherdsons?" "No, sir; I never heard of them." "Well, that may be so, and it mayn't.
And mind, don't you hurry-come mighty slow.
If there's anybody with you, let him keep back-if he shows himself he'll be shot. Come along now.
Come slow; push the door open yourself-just enough to squeeze in, d' you hear?" I didn't hurry; I couldn't if I'd a wanted to.
I took one slow step at a time and there warn't a sound, only I thought I could hear my heart. The dogs were as still as the humans, but they followed a little behind me.
When I got to the three log doorsteps I heard them unlocking and unbarring and unbolting.
The old gentleman says: "There; I reckon it's all right.
They held the candle, and took a good look at me, and all said, "Why, _he_ ain't a Shepherdson-no, there ain't any Shepherdson about him.
Then the old man said he hoped I wouldn't mind being searched for arms, because he didn't mean no harm by it-it was only to make sure.
So he didn't pry into my pockets, but only felt outside with his hands, and said it was all right.
He hadn't on anything but a shirt, and he was very frowzy-headed.
Go 'long with you now, and do as your mother told you." When we got up-stairs to his room he got me a coarse shirt and a roundabout and pants of his, and I put them on.
I said I didn't know; I hadn't heard about it before, no way. "Well, guess," he says. "How'm I going to guess," says I, "when I never heard tell of it before?" "But you can guess, can't you?
It's just as easy." "_Which_ candle?
Say, how long are you going to stay here?
You got to stay always.
We can just have booming times-they don't have no school now.
Do you own a dog?
I've got a dog-and he'll go in the river and bring out chips that you throw in. Do you like to comb up Sundays, and all that kind of foolishness?
You bet I don't, but ma she makes me.
I reckon I'd better put 'em on, but I'd ruther not, it's so warm.
Are you all ready? All right.
Come along, old hoss." Cold corn-pone, cold corn-beef, butter and buttermilk-that is what they had for me down there, and there ain't nothing better that ever I've come across yet.
Buck and his ma and all of them smoked cob pipes, except the nigger woman, which was gone, and the two young women.
They all smoked and talked, and I eat and talked.
The young women had quilts around them, and their hair down their backs.
So they said I could have a home there as long as I wanted it.
Then it was most daylight and everybody went to bed, and I went to bed with Buck, and when I waked up in the morning, drat it all, I had forgot what my name was.
I hadn't seen no house out in the country before that was so nice and had so much style.
It didn't have an iron latch on the front door, nor a wooden one with a buckskin string, but a brass knob to turn, the same as houses in town.
There warn't no bed in the parlor, nor a sign of a bed; but heaps of parlors in towns has beds in them.
They had big brass dog-irons that could hold up a saw-log.
They wouldn't took any money for her. Well, there was a big outlandish parrot on each side of the clock, made out of something like chalk, and painted up gaudy.
By one of the parrots was a cat made of crockery, and a crockery dog by the other; and when you pressed down on them they squeaked, but didn't open their mouths nor look different nor interested.
There was a couple of big wild-turkey-wing fans spread out behind those things.
It come all the way from Philadelphia, they said.
There was some books, too, piled up perfectly exact, on each corner of the table.
One was a big family Bible full of pictures.
One was Pilgrim's Progress, about a man that left his family, it didn't say why.
I read considerable in it now and then.
The statements was interesting, but tough.
Another was Friendship's Offering, full of beautiful stuff and poetry; but I didn't read the poetry.
Another was Henry Clay's Speeches, and another was Dr. Gunn's Family Medicine, which told you all about what to do if a body was sick or dead.
There was a hymn book, and a lot of other books.
There was some that they called crayons, which one of the daughters which was dead made her own self when she was only fifteen years old.
They was different from any pictures I ever see before-blacker, mostly, than is common.
These was all nice pictures, I reckon, but I didn't somehow seem to take to them, because if ever I was down a little they always give me the fan-tods.
Everybody was sorry she died, because she had laid out a lot more of these pictures to do, and a body could see by what she had done what they had lost.
But I reckoned that with her disposition she was having a better time in the graveyard.
Other times it was hid with a little curtain.
It was very good poetry.
Buck said she could rattle off poetry like nothing.
She didn't ever have to stop to think.
He said she would slap down a line, and if she couldn't find anything to rhyme with it would just scratch it out and slap down another one, and go ahead.
The neighbors said it was the doctor first, then Emmeline, then the undertaker-the undertaker never got in ahead of Emmeline but once, and then she hung fire on a rhyme for the dead person's name, which was Whistler.
She warn't ever the same after that; she never complained, but she kinder pined away and did not live long.
I liked all that family, dead ones and all, and warn't going to let anything come between us.
They kept Emmeline's room trim and nice, and all the things fixed in it just the way she liked to have them when she was alive, and nobody ever slept there.
Nothing couldn't be better. And warn't the cooking good, and just bushels of it too! CHAPTER XVIII. Col. Grangerford was a gentleman, you see.
He was a gentleman all over; and so was his family.
His forehead was high, and his hair was black and straight and hung to his shoulders.
He carried a mahogany cane with a silver head to it.
There warn't no frivolishness about him, not a bit, and he warn't ever loud.
He was as kind as he could be-you could feel that, you know, and so you had confidence.
He didn't ever have to tell anybody to mind their manners-everybody was always good-mannered where he was.
Everybody loved to have him around, too; he was sunshine most always-I mean he made it seem like good weather.
She was beautiful. So was her sister, Miss Sophia, but it was a different kind.
She was gentle and sweet like a dove, and she was only twenty. Each person had their own nigger to wait on them-Buck too.
These people was mostly kinfolks of the family.
The men brought their guns with them.
It was a handsome lot of quality, I tell you. There was another clan of aristocracy around there-five or six families-mostly of the name of Shepherdson.
They was as high-toned and well born and rich and grand as the tribe of Grangerfords.
We was crossing the road.
Jump for the woods!" We done it, and then peeped down the woods through the leaves.
Pretty soon a splendid young man come galloping down the road, setting his horse easy and looking like a soldier.
He had his gun across his pommel.
I had seen him before.
It was young Harney Shepherdson.
I heard Buck's gun go off at my ear, and Harney's hat tumbled off from his head.
He grabbed his gun and rode straight to the place where we was hid.
We started through the woods on a run.
We never stopped running till we got home.
The old gentleman's eyes blazed a minute-'twas pleasure, mainly, I judged-then his face sort of smoothed down, and he says, kind of gentle: "I don't like that shooting from behind a bush.
Why didn't you step into the road, my boy?" "The Shepherdsons don't, father.
They always take advantage." Miss Charlotte she held her head up like a queen while Buck was telling his tale, and her nostrils spread and her eyes snapped.
The two young men looked dark, but never said nothing.
He never done nothing to me." "Well, then, what did you want to kill him for?" "Why, nothing-only it's on account of the feud." "What's a feud?" "Why, where was you raised?
Don't you know what a feud is?" "Never heard of it before-tell me about it." "Well," says Buck, "a feud is this way.
But it's kind of slow, and takes a long time." "Has this one been going on long, Buck?" "Well, I should _reckon!_ It started thirty year ago, or som'ers along there.
There was trouble 'bout something, and then a lawsuit to settle it; and the suit went agin one of the men, and so he up and shot the man that won the suit-which he would naturally do, of course.
Anybody would." "What was the trouble about, Buck?-land?" "I reckon maybe-I don't know." "Well, who done the shooting?
Was it a Grangerford or a Shepherdson?" "Laws, how do _I_ know?
But they don't always kill.
Pa's got a few buckshot in him; but he don't mind it 'cuz he don't weigh much, anyway.
Bob's been carved up some with a bowie, and Tom's been hurt once or twice." "Has anybody been killed this year, Buck?" "Yes; we got one and they got one.
But he didn't git much chance to enjoy his luck, for inside of a week our folks laid _him_ out." "I reckon that old man was a coward, Buck." "I reckon he _warn't_ a coward.
Not by a blame' sight.
There ain't a coward amongst them Shepherdsons-not a one.
And there ain't no cowards amongst the Grangerfords either.
Why, that old man kep' up his end in a fight one day for half an hour against three Grangerfords, and come out winner.
No, sir; if a body's out hunting for cowards he don't want to fool away any time amongst them Shepherdsons, becuz they don't breed any of that _kind_." Next Sunday we all went to church, about three mile, everybody a-horseback.
The men took their guns along, so did Buck, and kept them between their knees or stood them handy against the wall.
The Shepherdsons done the same.
Buck and a dog was stretched out on the grass in the sun sound asleep.
I went up to our room, and judged I would take a nap myself.
Then she said she'd forgot her Testament, and left it in the seat at church between two other books, and would I slip out quiet and go there and fetch it to her, and not say nothing to nobody.
If you notice, most folks don't go to church only when they've got to; but a hog is different. Says I to myself, something's up; it ain't natural for a girl to be in such a sweat about a Testament.
So I give it a shake, and out drops a little piece of paper with "_Half-past two_" wrote on it with a pencil. I ransacked it, but couldn't find anything else.
She was mighty red in the face for a minute, and her eyes lighted up, and it made her powerful pretty.
He oughter know a body don't love water-moccasins enough to go around hunting for them.
What is he up to, anyway?
So I says: "All right; trot ahead." I followed a half a mile; then he struck out over the swamp, and waded ankle deep as much as another half-mile.
We come to a little flat piece of land which was dry and very thick with trees and bushes and vines, and he says: "You shove right in dah jist a few steps, Mars Jawge; dah's whah dey is.
I's seed 'm befo'; I don't k'yer to see 'em no mo'." Then he slopped right along and went away, and pretty soon the trees hid him.
He nearly cried he was so glad, but he warn't surprised.
Said he swum along behind me that night, and heard me yell every time, but dasn't answer, because he didn't want nobody to pick _him_ up and take him into slavery again.
She was tore up a good deal-one en' of her was; but dey warn't no great harm done, on'y our traps was mos' all los'.
Ef we hadn' dive' so deep en swum so fur under water, en de night hadn' ben so dark, en we warn't so sk'yerd, en ben sich punkin-heads, as de sayin' is, we'd a seed de raf'.
Den I gin 'm ten cents apiece, en dey 'uz mighty well satisfied, en wisht some mo' raf's 'ud come along en make 'm rich agin.
Dey's mighty good to me, dese niggers is, en whatever I wants 'm to do fur me, I doan' have to ast 'm twice, honey.
Dat Jack's a good nigger, en pooty smart." "Yes, he is.
He ain't ever told me you was here; told me to come, and he'd show me a lot of water-moccasins.
If anything happens _he_ ain't mixed up in it.
He can say he never seen us together, and it'll be the truth." I don't want to talk much about the next day.
I reckon I'll cut it pretty short.
I waked up about dawn, and was a-going to turn over and go to sleep again, when I noticed how still it was-didn't seem to be anybody stirring.
Next I noticed that Buck was up and gone.
Well, I gets up, a-wondering, and goes down stairs-nobody around; everything as still as a mouse.
Thinks I, what does it mean?
Down by the wood-pile I comes across my Jack, and says: "What's it all about?" Says he: "Don't you know, Mars Jawge?" "No," says I, "I don't." "Well, den, Miss Sophia's run off! 'deed she has.
She run off in de night some time-nobody don't know jis' when; run off to get married to dat young Harney Shepherdson, you know-leastways, so dey 'spec.
De fambly foun' it out 'bout half an hour ago-maybe a little mo'-en' I _tell_ you dey warn't no time los'.
Sich another hurryin' up guns en hosses _you_ never see!
I reck'n dey's gwyne to be mighty rough times." "Buck went off 'thout waking me up." "Well, I reck'n he _did!_ Dey warn't gwyne to mix you up in it.
Mars Buck he loaded up his gun en 'lowed he's gwyne to fetch home a Shepherdson or bust.
Well, dey'll be plenty un 'm dah, I reck'n, en you bet you he'll fetch one ef he gits a chanst." I took up the river road as hard as I could put.
By-and-by I begin to hear guns a good ways off.
Every time one of them showed himself on the river side of the woodpile he got shot at.
The two boys was squatting back to back behind the pile, so they could watch both ways. By-and-by the men stopped cavorting around and yelling.
They started riding towards the store; then up gets one of the boys, draws a steady bead over the wood-rank, and drops one of them out of his saddle.
All the men jumped off of their horses and grabbed the hurt one and started to carry him to the store; and that minute the two boys started on the run.
They got half way to the tree I was in before the men noticed. Then the men see them, and jumped on their horses and took out after them.
One of the boys was Buck, and the other was a slim young chap about nineteen years old. The men ripped around awhile, and then rode away.
As soon as they was out of sight I sung out to Buck and told him.
He didn't know what to make of my voice coming out of the tree at first.
He told me to watch out sharp and let him know when the men come in sight again; said they was up to some devilment or other-wouldn't be gone long.
I wished I was out of that tree, but I dasn't come down.
Buck begun to cry and rip, and 'lowed that him and his cousin Joe (that was the other young chap) would make up for this day yet.
He said his father and his two brothers was killed, and two or three of the enemy.
Said the Shepherdsons laid for them in ambush.
Buck said his father and brothers ought to waited for their relations-the Shepherdsons was too strong for them.
I asked him what was become of young Harney and Miss Sophia.
He said they'd got across the river and was safe.
The boys jumped for the river-both of them hurt-and as they swum down the current the men run along the bank shooting at them and singing out, "Kill them, kill them!
It made me so sick I most fell out of the tree.
I ain't a-going to tell _all_ that happened-it would make me sick again if I was to do that.
I wished I hadn't ever come ashore that night to see such things.
I was mighty downhearted; so I made up my mind I wouldn't ever go anear that house again, because I reckoned I was to blame, somehow.
I cried a little when I was covering up Buck's face, for he was mighty good to me. It was just dark now.
I never went near the house, but struck through the woods and made for the swamp.
Jim warn't on his island, so I tramped off in a hurry for the crick, and crowded through the willows, red-hot to jump aboard and get out of that awful country.
My souls, but I was scared!
I couldn't get my breath for most a minute.
Then I raised a yell.
A voice not twenty-five foot from me says: "Good lan'! is dat you, honey?
Doan' make no noise." It was Jim's voice-nothing ever sounded so good before.
I run along the bank a piece and got aboard, and Jim he grabbed me and hugged me, he was so glad to see me.
He says: "Laws bless you, chile, I 'uz right down sho' you's dead agin.
Then we hung up our signal lantern, and judged that we was free and safe once more.
I was powerful glad to get away from the feuds, and so was Jim to get away from the swamp.
We said there warn't no home like a raft, after all.
Other places do seem so cramped up and smothery, but a raft don't.
You feel mighty free and easy and comfortable on a raft. CHAPTER XIX. Two or three days and nights went by; I reckon I might say they swum by, they slid along so quiet and smooth and lovely.
Here is the way we put in the time.
Then we set out the lines.
Next we slid into the river and had a swim, so as to freshen up and cool off; then we set down on the sandy bottom where the water was about knee deep, and watched the daylight come.
Not a sound anywheres-perfectly still-just like the whole world was asleep, only sometimes the bullfrogs a-cluttering, maybe.
And afterwards we would watch the lonesomeness of the river, and kind of lazy along, and by-and-by lazy off to sleep.
So we would put in the day, lazying around, listening to the stillness.
Once there was a thick fog, and the rafts and things that went by was beating tin pans so the steamboats wouldn't run over them.
It's lovely to live on a raft.
Jim said the moon could a _laid_ them; well, that looked kind of reasonable, so I didn't say nothing against it, because I've seen a frog lay most as many, so of course it could be done.
We used to watch the stars that fell, too, and see them streak down.
Just as I was passing a place where a kind of a cowpath crossed the crick, here comes a couple of men tearing up the path as tight as they could foot it.
I thought I was a goner, for whenever anybody was after anybody I judged it was _me_-or maybe Jim.
They wanted to jump right in, but I says: "Don't you do it.
He had an old battered-up slouch hat on, and a greasy blue woollen shirt, and ragged old blue jeans britches stuffed into his boot-tops, and home-knit galluses-no, he only had one.
He had an old long-tailed blue jeans coat with slick brass buttons flung over his arm, and both of them had big, fat, ratty-looking carpet-bags. The other fellow was about thirty, and dressed about as ornery.
I didn't wait for no breakfast-I warn't hungry." "Old man," said the young one, "I reckon we might double-team it together; what do you think?" "I ain't undisposed.
What's your lay?" "I've done considerble in the doctoring way in my time.
Layin' on o' hands is my best holt-for cancer and paralysis, and sich things; and I k'n tell a fortune pretty good when I've got somebody along to find out the facts for me.
I don't blame _you_, gentlemen-far from it; I don't blame anybody.
I deserve it all. Let the cold world do its worst; one thing I know-there's a grave somewhere for me.
The world may go on just as it's always done, and take everything from me-loved ones, property, everything; but it can't take that.
Some day I'll lie down in it and forget it all, and my poor broken heart will be at rest.
He went on a-wiping. "Drot your pore broken heart," says the baldhead; "what are you heaving your pore broken heart at _us_ f'r? _We_ hain't done nothing." "No, I know you haven't.
I ain't blaming you, gentlemen.
I brought myself down-yes, I did it myself.
It's right I should suffer-perfectly right-I don't make any moan." "Brought you down from whar?
Whar was you brought down from?" "Ah, you would not believe me; the world never believes-let it pass-'tis no matter.
The secret of my birth-" "The secret of your birth!
Do you mean to say-" "Gentlemen," says the young man, very solemn, "I will reveal it to you, for I feel I may have confidence in you.
By rights I am a duke!" Jim's eyes bugged out when he heard that; and I reckon mine did, too. Then the baldhead says: "No! you can't mean it?" "Yes.
The second son of the late duke seized the titles and estates-the infant real duke was ignored.
He seemed to have something on his mind.
So, along in the afternoon, he says: "Looky here, Bilgewater," he says, "I'm nation sorry for you, but you ain't the only person that's had troubles like that." "No?" "No you ain't.
You ain't the only person that's ben snaked down wrongfully out'n a high place." "Alas!" "No, you ain't the only person that's had a secret of his birth.
And, by jings, _he_ begins to cry. "Hold!
What do you mean?" "Bilgewater, kin I trust you?" says the old man, still sort of sobbing. "To the bitter death!
He took the old man by the hand and squeezed it, and says, "That secret of your being: speak!" "Bilgewater, I am the late Dauphin!" You bet you, Jim and me stared this time.
Then the duke says: "You are what?" "Yes, my friend, it is too true-your eyes is lookin' at this very moment on the pore disappeared Dauphin, Looy the Seventeen, son of Looy the Sixteen and Marry Antonette." "You!
You mean you're the late Charlemagne; you must be six or seven hundred years old, at the very least." "Trouble has done it, Bilgewater, trouble has done it; trouble has brung these gray hairs and this premature balditude.
So Jim and me set to majestying him, and doing this and that and t'other for him, and standing up till he told us we might set down.
This done him heaps of good, and so he got cheerful and comfortable.
It'll only make things oncomfortable.
But I never said nothing, never let on; kept it to myself; it's the best way; then you don't have no quarrels, and don't get into no trouble.
If they wanted us to call them kings and dukes, I hadn't no objections, 'long as it would keep peace in the family; and it warn't no use to tell Jim, so I didn't tell him.
Says I: "Goodness sakes, would a runaway nigger run _south?_" No, they allowed he wouldn't.
I had to account for things some way, so I says: "My folks was living in Pike County, in Missouri, where I was born, and they all died off but me and pa and my brother Ike.
Pa, he 'lowed he'd break up and go down and live with Uncle Ben, who's got a little one-horse place on the river, forty-four mile below Orleans.
Pa was pretty poor, and had some debts; so when he'd squared up there warn't nothing left but sixteen dollars and our nigger, Jim.
Well, for the next day or two we had considerable trouble, because people was always coming out in skiffs and trying to take Jim away from me, saying they believed he was a runaway nigger.
We don't run daytimes no more now; nights they don't bother us." The duke says: "Leave me alone to cipher out a way so we can run in the daytime if we want to.
So the duke and the king went to overhauling our wigwam, to see what the beds was like.
Well, the duke allowed he would take my bed; but the king allowed he wouldn't.
He says: "I should a reckoned the difference in rank would a sejested to you that a corn-shuck bed warn't just fitten for me to sleep on.
Misfortune has broken my once haughty spirit; I yield, I submit; 'tis my fate.
I am alone in the world-let me suffer; I can bear it." We got away as soon as it was good and dark.
The king told us to stand well out towards the middle of the river, and not show a light till we got a long ways below the town.
We come in sight of the little bunch of lights by-and-by-that was the town, you know-and slid by, about a half a mile out, all right.
It was my watch below till twelve, but I wouldn't a turned in anyway if I'd had a bed, because a body don't see such a storm as that every day in the week, not by a long sight.
My souls, how the wind did scream along!
The waves most washed me off the raft sometimes, but I hadn't any clothes on, and didn't mind.
Then they got tired of it, and allowed they would "lay out a campaign," as they called it.
The duke went down into his carpet-bag, and fetched up a lot of little printed bills and read them out loud.
The duke said that was _him_.
In another bill he was the "world-renowned Shakespearian tragedian, Garrick the Younger, of Drury Lane, London.
In other bills he had a lot of other names and done other wonderful things, like finding water and gold with a "divining-rod," "dissipating witch spells," and so on.
By-and-by he says: "But the histrionic muse is the darling.
Have you ever trod the boards, Royalty?" "No," says the king. "You shall, then, before you're three days older, Fallen Grandeur," says the duke.
The first good town we come to we'll hire a hall and do the sword fight in Richard III. and the balcony scene in Romeo and Juliet.
How does that strike you?" "I'm in, up to the hub, for anything that will pay, Bilgewater; but, you see, I don't know nothing about play-actin', and hain't ever seen much of it.
I was too small when pap used to have 'em at the palace.
Do you reckon you can learn me?" "Easy!" "All right.
I'm jist a-freezn' for something fresh, anyway.
Here are the costumes for the parts." He got out two or three curtain-calico suits, which he said was meedyevil armor for Richard III. and t'other chap, and a long white cotton nightshirt and a ruffled nightcap to match.
The king allowed he would go, too, and see if he couldn't strike something.
We was out of coffee, so Jim said I better go along with them in the canoe and get some. When we got there there warn't nobody stirring; streets empty, and perfectly dead and still, like Sunday.
We found a sick nigger sunning himself in a back yard, and he said everybody that warn't too young or too sick or too old was gone to camp-meeting, about two mile back in the woods.
The king got the directions, and allowed he'd go and work that camp-meeting for all it was worth, and I might go, too. The duke said what he was after was a printing-office.
We found it; a little bit of a concern, up over a carpenter shop-carpenters and printers all gone to the meeting, and no doors locked.
It was a dirty, littered-up place, and had ink marks, and handbills with pictures of horses and runaway niggers on them, all over the walls.
The duke shed his coat and said he was all right now.
So me and the king lit out for the camp-meeting. We got there in about a half an hour fairly dripping, for it was a most awful hot day.
There was as much as a thousand people there from twenty mile around.
The woods was full of teams and wagons, hitched everywheres, feeding out of the wagon-troughs and stomping to keep off the flies.
The benches was made out of outside slabs of logs, with holes bored in the round side to drive sticks into for legs.
They didn't have no backs.
The preachers had high platforms to stand on at one end of the sheds.
The women had on sun-bonnets; and some had linsey-woolsey frocks, some gingham ones, and a few of the young ones had on calico.
Some of the young men was barefooted, and some of the children didn't have on any clothes but just a tow-linen shirt.
Some of the old women was knitting, and some of the young folks was courting on the sly. The first shed we come to the preacher was lining out a hymn.
The people woke up more and more, and sung louder and louder; and towards the end some begun to groan, and some begun to shout.
Look upon it and live!
You couldn't make out what the preacher said any more, on account of the shouting and crying.
Then somebody sings out, "Take up a collection for him, take up a collection!
Well, a half a dozen made a jump to do it, but somebody sings out, "Let _him_ pass the hat around!
And then he had fetched away a three-gallon jug of whisky, too, that he found under a wagon when he was starting home through the woods.
The king said, take it all around, it laid over any day he'd ever put in in the missionarying line.
He had set up and printed off two little jobs for farmers in that printing-office-horse bills-and took the money, four dollars.
And he had got in ten dollars' worth of advertisements for the paper, which he said he would put in for four dollars if they would pay in advance-so they done it.
Well, he took in nine dollars and a half, and said he'd done a pretty square day's work for it. Then he showed us another little job he'd printed and hadn't charged for, because it was for us.
It had a picture of a runaway nigger with a bundle on a stick over his shoulder, and "$200 reward" under it.
The reading was all about Jim, and just described him to a dot.
Handcuffs and chains would look still better on Jim, but it wouldn't go well with the story of us being so poor.
Ropes are the correct thing-we must preserve the unities, as we say on the boards." We all said the duke was pretty smart, and there couldn't be no trouble about running daytimes.
I doan' mine one er two kings, but dat's enough.
The king and the duke turned out by-and-by looking pretty rusty; but after they'd jumped overboard and took a swim it chippered them up a good deal.
When he had got it pretty good, him and the duke begun to practice it together.
I haven't got it in the book-I've only got one volume-but I reckon I can piece it out from memory.
It was beautiful to see him.
He told us to give attention.
The circus would leave before night, so our show would have a pretty good chance.
The duke he hired the court house, and we went around and stuck up our bills.
Mr. Kean. Assisted by the whole strength of the company! New costumes, new scenery, new appointments! Also: The thrilling, masterly, and blood-curdling Broad-sword conflict In Richard III.!!! Richard III................................
The houses had little gardens around them, but they didn't seem to raise hardly anything in them but jimpson weeds, and sunflowers, and ash-piles, and old curled-up boots and shoes, and pieces of bottles, and rags, and played-out tin-ware.
The fences was made of different kinds of boards, nailed on at different times; and they leaned every which-way, and had gates that didn't generly have but one hinge-a leather one.
Some of the fences had been whitewashed, some time or another, but the duke said it was in Clumbus's time, like enough.
There was generly hogs in the garden, and people driving them out. All the stores was along one street.
There was as many as one loafer leaning up against every awning-post, and he most always had his hands in his britches-pockets, except when he fetched them out to lend a chaw of tobacco or scratch.
What a body was hearing amongst them all the time was: "Gimme a chaw 'v tobacker, Hank." "Cain't; I hain't got but one chaw left.
Ask Bill." Maybe Bill he gives him a chaw; maybe he lies and says he ain't got none.
Some of them kinds of loafers never has a cent in the world, nor a chaw of tobacco of their own.
So did your sister's cat's grandmother.
You borry'd store tobacker and paid back nigger-head." Store tobacco is flat black plug, but these fellows mostly chaws the natural leaf twisted.
The hogs loafed and grunted around everywheres.
Then they'd settle back again till there was a dog fight.
The bank was caved away under one corner of some others, and that corner was hanging over.
People lived in them yet, but it was dangersome, because sometimes a strip of land as wide as a house caves in at a time.
Sometimes a belt of land a quarter of a mile deep will start in and cave along and cave along till it all caves into the river in one summer.
There was considerable whisky drinking going on, and I seen three fights.
By-and-by somebody sings out: "Here comes old Boggs!-in from the country for his little old monthly drunk; here he comes, boys!" All the loafers looked glad; I reckoned they was used to having fun out of Boggs.
One of them says: "Wonder who he's a-gwyne to chaw up this time.
I'm on the waw-path, and the price uv coffins is a-gwyne to raise." He was drunk, and weaving about in his saddle; he was over fifty year old, and had a very red face.
You prepared to die?" Then he rode on.
I was scared, but a man says: "He don't mean nothing; he's always a-carryin' on like that when he's drunk.
By-and-by a proud-looking man about fifty-five-and he was a heap the best dressed man in that town, too-steps out of the store, and the crowd drops back on each side to let him come.
He says to Boggs, mighty ca'm and slow-he says: "I'm tired of this, but I'll endure it till one o'clock.
Till one o'clock, mind-no longer.
Boggs rode off blackguarding Sherburn as loud as he could yell, all down the street; and pretty soon back he comes and stops before the store, still keeping it up.
Some men crowded around him and tried to get him to shut up, but he wouldn't; they told him it would be one o'clock in about fifteen minutes, and so he _must_ go home-he must go right away.
But it didn't do no good.
He cussed away with all his might, and throwed his hat down in the mud and rode over it, and pretty soon away he went a-raging down the street again, with his gray hair a-flying.
By-and-by somebody says: "Go for his daughter!-quick, go for his daughter; sometimes he'll listen to her.
If anybody can persuade him, she can." So somebody started on a run.
I walked down street a ways and stopped. In about five or ten minutes here comes Boggs again, but not on his horse.
He was a-reeling across the street towards me, bare-headed, with a friend on both sides of him a-holt of his arms and hurrying him along.
He was quiet, and looked uneasy; and he warn't hanging back any, but was doing some of the hurrying himself.
Somebody sings out: "Boggs!" I looked over there to see who said it, and it was that Colonel Sherburn.
He was standing perfectly still in the street, and had a pistol raised in his right hand-not aiming it, but holding it out with the barrel tilted up towards the sky.
The same second I see a young girl coming on the run, and two men with her.
Boggs and the men turned round to see who called him, and when they see the pistol the men jumped to one side, and the pistol-barrel come down slow and steady to a level-both barrels cocked.
Boggs throws up both of his hands and says, "O Lord, don't shoot!
Then they pulled his daughter away from him, screaming and crying, and took her off.
The streets was full, and everybody was excited.
Everybody that seen the shooting was telling how it happened, and there was a big crowd packed around each one of these fellows, stretching their necks and listening.
The people that had seen the thing said he done it perfect; said it was just exactly the way it all happened.
Then as much as a dozen people got out their bottles and treated him. Well, by-and-by somebody said Sherburn ought to be lynched.
Lots of the women and girls was crying and taking on, scared most to death. They swarmed up in front of Sherburn's palings as thick as they could jam together, and you couldn't hear yourself think for the noise.
It was a little twenty-foot yard.
Some sung out "Tear down the fence! tear down the fence!
The racket stopped, and the wave sucked back. Sherburn never said a word-just stood there, looking down.
The stillness was awful creepy and uncomfortable.
Sherburn run his eye slow along the crowd; and wherever it struck the people tried a little to out-gaze him, but they couldn't; they dropped their eyes and looked sneaky.
I know you clear through.
I was born and raised in the South, and I've lived in the North; so I know the average all around. The average man's a coward.
Your newspapers call you a brave people so much that you think you _are_ braver than any other people-whereas you're just _as_ brave, and no braver.
Why don't your juries hang murderers?
Your mistake is, that you didn't bring a man with you; that's one mistake, and the other is that you didn't come in the dark and fetch your masks.
You brought _part_ of a man-Buck Harkness, there-and if you hadn't had him to start you, you'd a taken it out in blowing. "You didn't want to come.
The average man don't like trouble and danger. _You_ don't like trouble and danger.
The pitifulest thing out is a mob; that's what an army is-a mob; they don't fight with courage that's born in them, but with courage that's borrowed from their mass, and from their officers.
But a mob without any _man_ at the head of it is _beneath_ pitifulness.
Now the thing for _you_ to do is to droop your tails and go home and crawl in a hole.
If any real lynching's going to be done, it will be done in the dark, Southern fashion; and when they come they'll bring their masks, and fetch a _man_ along.
I could a staid if I wanted to, but I didn't want to. I went to the circus and loafed around the back side till the watchman went by, and then dived in under the tent.
I had my twenty-dollar gold piece and some other money, but I reckoned I better save it, because there ain't no telling how soon you are going to need it, away from home and amongst strangers that way.
You can't be too careful.
I ain't opposed to spending money on circuses when there ain't no other way, but there ain't no use in _wasting_ it on them. It was a real bully circus.
It was a powerful fine sight; I never see anything so lovely.
Why, I couldn't a thought of them in a year. And by-and-by a drunk man tried to get into the ring-said he wanted to ride; said he could ride as well as anybody that ever was.
They argued and tried to keep him out, but he wouldn't listen, and the whole show come to a standstill.
It warn't funny to me, though; I was all of a tremble to see his danger.
But pretty soon he struggled up astraddle and grabbed the bridle, a-reeling this way and that; and the next minute he sprung up and dropped the bridle and stood! and the horse a-going like a house afire too.
He just stood up there, a-sailing around as easy and comfortable as if he warn't ever drunk in his life-and then he begun to pull off his clothes and sling them.
He shed them so thick they kind of clogged up the air, and altogether he shed seventeen suits.
Why, it was one of his own men!
He had got up that joke all out of his own head, and never let on to nobody.
And they laughed all the time, and that made the duke mad; and everybody left, anyway, before the show was over, but one boy which was asleep.
So the duke said these Arkansaw lunkheads couldn't come up to Shakespeare; what they wanted was low comedy-and maybe something ruther worse than low comedy, he reckoned.
He said he could size their style.
So next morning he got some big sheets of wrapping paper and some black paint, and drawed off some handbills, and stuck them up all over the village.
And-but never mind the rest of his outfit; it was just wild, but it was awful funny.
Is that _all?_" The duke says yes.
Then there was a fine time.
Everybody sings out, "Sold!" and rose up mad, and was a-going for that stage and them tragedians.
But a big, fine looking man jumps up on a bench and shouts: "Hold on!
We are sold-mighty badly sold.
But we don't want to be the laughing stock of this whole town, I reckon, and never hear the last of this thing as long as we live. _No_.
What we want is to go out of here quiet, and talk this show up, and sell the _rest_ of the town!
Then we'll all be in the same boat.
Ain't that sensible?" ("You bet it is!-the jedge is right!" everybody sings out.) "All right, then-not a word about any sell.
Go along home, and advise everybody to come and see the tragedy." Next day you couldn't hear nothing around that town but how splendid that show was.
House was jammed again that night, and we sold this crowd the same way.
I stood by the duke at the door, and I see that every man that went in had his pockets bulging, or something muffled up under his coat-and I see it warn't no perfumery, neither, not by a long sight.
We struck the raft at the same time, and in less than two seconds we was gliding down stream, all dark and still, and edging towards the middle of the river, nobody saying a word.
The duke says: "Greenhorns, flatheads! _I_ knew the first house would keep mum and let the rest of the town get roped in; and I knew they'd lay for us the third night, and consider it was _their_ turn now.
Well, it _is_ their turn, and I'd give something to know how much they'd take for it.
I _would_ just like to know how they're putting in their opportunity. They can turn it into a picnic if they want to-they brought plenty provisions." Them rapscallions took in four hundred and sixty-five dollars in that three nights.
I never see money hauled in by the wagon-load like that before.
By-and-by, when they was asleep and snoring, Jim says: "Don't it s'prise you de way dem kings carries on, Huck?" "No," I says, "it don't." "Why don't it, Huck?" "Well, it don't, because it's in the breed.
Look at Henry the Eight; this'n 's a Sunday-school Superintendent to _him_.
And look at Charles Second, and Louis Fourteen, and Louis Fifteen, and James Second, and Edward Second, and Richard Third, and forty more; besides all them Saxon heptarchies that used to rip around so in old times and raise Cain.
My, you ought to seen old Henry the Eight when he was in bloom.
He used to marry a new wife every day, and chop off her head next morning.
And he would do it just as indifferent as if he was ordering up eggs.
Fetch up Nell Gwynn,' he says.
They fetch her up. Next morning, 'Chop off her head!
And they chop it off.
Fetch up Jane Shore,' he says; and up she comes.
Next morning, 'Chop off her head'-and they chop it off.
Fair Rosamun answers the bell.
Next morning, 'Chop off her head.
You don't know kings, Jim, but I know them; and this old rip of ourn is one of the cleanest I've struck in history.
Well, Henry he takes a notion he wants to get up some trouble with this country.
How does he go at it-give notice?-give the country a show?
No. All of a sudden he heaves all the tea in Boston Harbor overboard, and whacks out a declaration of independence, and dares them to come on.
That was _his_ style-he never give anybody a chance.
He had suspicions of his father, the Duke of Wellington.
Well, what did he do?
Ask him to show up?
No-drownded him in a butt of mamsey, like a cat.
S'pose people left money laying around where he was-what did he do?
S'pose he contracted to do a thing, and you paid him, and didn't set down there and see that he done it-what did he do?
He always done the other thing.
S'pose he opened his mouth-what then?
If he didn't shut it up powerful quick he'd lose a lie every time.
That's the kind of a bug Henry was; and if we'd a had him along 'stead of our kings he'd a fooled that town a heap worse than ourn done.
I don't say that ourn is lambs, because they ain't, when you come right down to the cold facts; but they ain't nothing to _that_ old ram, anyway.
All I say is, kings is kings, and you got to make allowances.
Take them all around, they're a mighty ornery lot.
This one's a middling hard lot for a duke.
When he's drunk, there ain't no near-sighted man could tell him from a king." "Well, anyways, I doan' hanker for no mo' un um, Huck.
Dese is all I kin stan'." "It's the way I feel, too, Jim.
But we've got them on our hands, and we got to remember what they are, and make allowances.
Sometimes I wish we could hear of a country that's out of kings." What was the use to tell Jim these warn't real kings and dukes?
It wouldn't a done no good; and, besides, it was just as I said: you couldn't tell them from the real kind. I went to sleep, and Jim didn't call me when it was my turn.
When I waked up just at daybreak, he was sitting there with his head down betwixt his knees, moaning and mourning to himself.
I didn't take notice nor let on.
I knowed what it was about.
It don't seem natural, but I reckon it's so.
He was often moaning and mourning that way nights, when he judged I was asleep, and saying, "Po' little 'Lizabeth! po' little Johnny! it's mighty hard; I spec' I ain't ever gwyne to see you no mo', no mo'!
It make me mad; en I says agin, mighty loud, I says: "'Doan' you hear me?-shet de do'!' "She jis stood de same way, kiner smilin' up.
My, but I _wuz_ mad!
De Lord God Amighty fogive po' ole Jim, kaze he never gwyne to fogive hisself as long's he live!
You see, when we left him all alone we had to tie him, because if anybody happened on to him all by himself and not tied it wouldn't look much like he was a runaway nigger, you know.
So the duke said it _was_ kind of hard to have to lay roped all day, and he'd cipher out some way to get around it. He was uncommon bright, the duke was, and he soon struck it.
Blamed if he warn't the horriblest looking outrage I ever see.
He said it was a sight better than lying tied a couple of years every day, and trembling all over every time there was a sound.
Which was sound enough judgment; but you take the average man, and he wouldn't wait for him to howl.
I done it, of course.
The king's duds was all black, and he did look real swell and starchy.
I never knowed how clothes could change a body before.
Jim cleaned up the canoe, and I got my paddle ready.
There was a big steamboat laying at the shore away up under the point, about three mile above the town-been there a couple of hours, taking on freight.
Says the king: "Seein' how I'm dressed, I reckon maybe I better arrive down from St. Louis or Cincinnati, or some other big place.
Go for the steamboat, Huckleberry; we'll come down to the village on her." I didn't have to be ordered twice to go and take a steamboat ride.
I fetched the shore a half a mile above the village, and then went scooting along the bluff bank in the easy water.
Wher' you bound for, young man?" "For the steamboat; going to Orleans." "Git aboard," says the king.
Hold on a minute, my servant 'll he'p you with them bags.
Jump out and he'p the gentleman, Adolphus"-meaning me, I see. I done so, and then we all three started on again.
The young chap was mighty thankful; said it was tough work toting his baggage such weather.
The young fellow says: "When I first see you I says to myself, 'It's Mr. Wilks, sure, and he come mighty near getting here in time.
But then I says again, 'No, I reckon it ain't him, or else he wouldn't be paddling up the river.
Peter and George were the only ones that come out here; George was the married brother; him and his wife both died last year.
He most desperately wanted to see Harvey-and William, too, for that matter-because he was one of them kind that can't bear to make a will.
He left a letter behind for Harvey, and said he'd told in it where his money was hid, and how he wanted the rest of the property divided up so George's g'yirls would be all right-for George didn't leave nothing.
And that letter was all they could get him to put a pen to." "Why do you reckon Harvey don't come?
Wher' does he live?" "Oh, he lives in England-Sheffield-preaches there-hasn't ever been in this country.
I'm going in a ship, next Wednesday, for Ryo Janeero, where my uncle lives." "It's a pretty long journey.
But it'll be lovely; wisht I was a-going. Is Mary Jane the oldest?
Old Peter had friends, and they ain't going to let them come to no harm.
Then he says: "What did you want to walk all the way up to the steamboat for?" "Because she's a big Orleans boat, and I was afeard she mightn't stop there.
When they're deep they won't stop for a hail.
A Cincinnati boat will, but this is a St. Louis one." "Was Peter Wilks well off?" "Oh, yes, pretty well off.
So what we want to do is to be prepared; then we're all right." "Yes, sir, it's the best way.
Ma used to always say that." When we struck the boat she was about done loading, and pretty soon she got off.
The king never said nothing about going aboard, so I lost my ride, after all.
When the boat was gone the king made me paddle up another mile to a lonesome place, and then he got ashore and says: "Now hustle back, right off, and fetch the duke up here, and the new carpet-bags.
And if he's gone over to t'other side, go over there and git him.
And tell him to git himself up regardless.
Shove along, now." I see what _he_ was up to; but I never said nothing, of course.
When I got back with the duke we hid the canoe, and then they set down on a log, and the king told him everything, just like the young fellow had said it-every last word of it.
And all the time he was a-doing it he tried to talk like an Englishman; and he done it pretty well, too, for a slouch.
I can't imitate him, and so I ain't a-going to try to; but he really done it pretty good.
Then he says: "How are you on the deef and dumb, Bilgewater?" The duke said, leave him alone for that; said he had played a deef and dumb person on the histronic boards.
But the king was ca'm.
Well, if ever I struck anything like it, I'm a nigger.
Pretty soon we was in the middle of a crowd, and the noise of the tramping was like a soldier march.
Mary Jane _was_ red-headed, but that don't make no difference, she was most awful beautiful, and her face and her eyes was all lit up like glory, she was so glad her uncles was come.
And, mind you, everybody was doing the same; and the place was that damp I never see anything like it.
Then one of them got on one side of the coffin, and t'other on t'other side, and they kneeled down and rested their foreheads on the coffin, and let on to pray all to themselves.
Lawyer Bell was away up to Louisville on business.
So these two frauds said they'd go and fetch it up, and have everything square and above-board; and told me to come with a candle.
We shut the cellar door behind us, and when they found the bag they spilt it out on the floor, and it was a lovely sight, all them yaller-boys.
My, the way the king's eyes did shine!
He slaps the duke on the shoulder and says: "Oh, _this_ ain't bully nor noth'n!
Oh, no, I reckon not!
Why, Bilji, it beats the Nonesuch, _don't_ it?" The duke allowed it did.
Thish yer comes of trust'n to Providence.
It's the best way, in the long run.
I've tried 'em all, and ther' ain't no better way." Most everybody would a been satisfied with the pile, and took it on trust; but no, they must count it.
So they counts it, and it comes out four hundred and fifteen dollars short.
Says the king: "Dern him, I wonder what he done with that four hundred and fifteen dollars?" They worried over that awhile, and ransacked all around for it.
Then the duke says: "Well, he was a pretty sick man, and likely he made a mistake-I reckon that's the way of it.
The best way's to let it go, and keep still about it.
We can spare it." "Oh, shucks, yes, we can _spare_ it.
I don't k'yer noth'n 'bout that-it's the _count_ I'm thinkin' about.
We want to be awful square and open and above-board here, you know.
We want to lug this h-yer money up stairs and count it before everybody-then ther' ain't noth'n suspicious.
But when the dead man says ther's six thous'n dollars, you know, we don't want to-" "Hold on," says the duke.
Le's make up the deffisit," and he begun to haul out yaller-boys out of his pocket. "It's a most amaz'n' good idea, duke-you _have_ got a rattlin' clever head on you," says the king.
Le's go up stairs and count this money, and then take and _give it to the girls_." "Good land, duke, lemme hug you!
It's the most dazzling idea 'at ever a man struck.
You have cert'nly got the most astonishin' head I ever see. Oh, this is the boss dodge, ther' ain't no mistake 'bout it.
Everybody looked hungry at it, and licked their chops.
Then they raked it into the bag again, and I see the king begin to swell himself up for another speech.
He says: "Friends all, my poor brother that lays yonder has done generous by them that's left behind in the vale of sorrers.
He has done generous by these yer poor little lambs that he loved and sheltered, and that's left fatherless and motherless.
Yes, and we that knowed him knows that he would a done _more_ generous by 'em if he hadn't ben afeard o' woundin' his dear William and me.
Ther' ain't no question 'bout it in _my_ mind.
Well, then, what kind o' brothers would it be that 'd stand in his way at sech a time?
And what kind o' uncles would it be that 'd rob-yes, _rob_-sech poor sweet lambs as these 'at he loved so at sech a time?
If I know William-and I _think_ I do-he-well, I'll jest ask him.
Then the king says, "I knowed it; I reckon _that_'ll convince anybody the way _he_ feels about it.
Here, Mary Jane, Susan, Joanner, take the money-take it _all_.
It's the gift of him that lays yonder, cold but joyful." Mary Jane she went for him, Susan and the hare-lip went for the duke, and then such another hugging and kissing I never see yet.
The king was saying-in the middle of something he'd started in on- "-they bein' partickler friends o' the diseased.
The king he reads it and puts it in his pocket, and says: "Poor William, afflicted as he is, his _heart's_ aluz right.
Asks me to invite everybody to come to the funeral-wants me to make 'em all welcome.
But he needn't a worried-it was jest what I was at." Then he weaves along again, perfectly ca'm, and goes to dropping in his funeral orgies again every now and then, just like he done before.
And when he done it the third time he says: "I say orgies, not because it's the common term, because it ain't-obsequies bein' the common term-but because orgies is the right term.
Obsequies ain't used in England no more now-it's gone out.
We say orgies now in England.
Orgies is better, because it means the thing you're after more exact.
Well, the iron-jawed man he laughed right in his face.
Everybody says, "Why, _doctor!_" and Abner Shackleford says: "Why, Robinson, hain't you heard the news?
This is Harvey Wilks." The king he smiled eager, and shoved out his flapper, and says: "_Is_ it my poor brother's dear good friend and physician?
I-" "Keep your hands off of me!" says the doctor. "_You_ talk like an Englishman, _don't_ you?
It's the worst imitation I ever heard. _You_ Peter Wilks's brother!
You're a fraud, that's what you are!" Well, how they all took on!
The poor girls was hanging to the king and crying; and all of a sudden the doctor ups and turns on _them_.
Mary Jane Wilks, you know me for your friend, and for your unselfish friend, too.
Now listen to me; turn this pitiful rascal out-I _beg_ you to do it.
Will you?" Mary Jane straightened herself up, and my, but she was handsome!
She says: "_Here_ is my answer.
Everybody clapped their hands and stomped on the floor like a perfect storm, whilst the king held up his head and smiled proud.
The doctor says: "All right; I wash _my_ hands of the matter.
But I warn you all that a time 's coming when you're going to feel sick whenever you think of this day.
The king said the cubby would do for his valley-meaning me. So Mary Jane took us up, and she showed them their rooms, which was plain but nice.
She said she'd have her frocks and a lot of other traps took out of her room if they was in Uncle Harvey's way, but he said they warn't.
The frocks was hung along the wall, and before them was a curtain made out of calico that hung down to the floor.
There was an old hair trunk in one corner, and a guitar-box in another, and all sorts of little knickknacks and jimcracks around, like girls brisken up a room with.
The king said it was all the more homely and more pleasanter for these fixings, and so don't disturb them.
The hare-lip she got to pumping me about England, and blest if I didn't think the ice was getting mighty thin sometimes.
She says: "Did you ever see the king?" "Who?
Well, I bet I have-he goes to our church.
I knowed he was dead years ago, but I never let on.
So when I says he goes to our church, she says: "What-regular?" "Yes-regular.
His pew's right over opposite ourn-on t'other side the pulpit." "I thought he lived in London?" "Well, he does.
Where _would_ he live?" "But I thought _you_ lived in Sheffield?" I see I was up a stump.
I had to let on to get choked with a chicken bone, so as to get time to think how to get down again.
Then I says: "I mean he goes to our church regular when he's in Sheffield.
There in the palace at Sheffield they've got furnaces, and he wants his water hot.
They can't bile that amount of water away off there at the sea. They haven't got no conveniences for it." "Oh, I see, now.
You might a said that in the first place and saved time." When she said that I see I was out of the woods again, and so I was comfortable and glad.
Next, she says: "Do you go to church, too?" "Yes-regular." "Where do you set?" "Why, in our pew." "_Whose_ pew?" "Why, _ourn_-your Uncle Harvey's." "His'n?
What does _he_ want with a pew?" "Wants it to set in. What did you _reckon_ he wanted with it?" "Why, I thought he'd be in the pulpit." Rot him, I forgot he was a preacher.
I see I was up a stump again, so I played another chicken bone and got another think.
Then I says: "Blame it, do you suppose there ain't but one preacher to a church?" "Why, what do they want with more?" "What!-to preach before a king?
I never did see such a girl as you. They don't have no less than seventeen." "Seventeen!
Why, I wouldn't set out such a string as that, not if I _never_ got to glory.
It must take 'em a week." "Shucks, they don't _all_ of 'em preach the same day-only _one_ of 'em." "Well, then, what does the rest of 'em do?" "Oh, nothing much.
Loll around, pass the plate-and one thing or another.
But mainly they don't do nothing." "Well, then, what are they _for?_" "Why, they're for _style_.
Don't you know nothing?" "Well, I don't _want_ to know no such foolishness as that.
How is servants treated in England?
Do they treat 'em better 'n we treat our niggers?" "_No!_ A servant ain't nobody there.
They treat them worse than dogs." "Don't they give 'em holidays, the way we do, Christmas and New Year's week, and Fourth of July?" "Oh, just listen!
A body could tell _you_ hain't ever been to England by that.
I forgot I was the old man's servant.
But I didn't do it pretty good, and when I got done I see she warn't satisfied.
She says: "Honest injun, now, hain't you been telling me a lot of lies?" "Honest injun," says I. "None of it at all?" "None of it at all.
Not a lie in it," says I. "Lay your hand on this book and say it." I see it warn't nothing but a dictionary, so I laid my hand on it and said it.
It ain't right nor kind for you to talk so to him, and him a stranger and so far from his people.
How would you like to be treated so?" "That's always your way, Maim-always sailing in to help somebody before they're hurt.
I hain't done nothing to him.
He's told some stretchers, I reckon, and I said I wouldn't swallow it all; and that's every bit and grain I _did_ say.
I reckon he can stand a little thing like that, can't he?" "I don't care whether 'twas little or whether 'twas big; he's here in our house and a stranger, and it wasn't good of you to say it.
So she hollered. "All right, then," says the other girls; "you just ask his pardon." She done it, too; and she done it beautiful.
And when she got through they all jest laid theirselves out to make me feel at home and know I was amongst friends.
I felt so ornery and low down and mean that I says to myself, my mind's made up; I'll hive that money for them or bust. So then I lit out-for bed, I said, meaning some time or another.
When I got by myself I went to thinking the thing over.
I says to myself, shall I go to that doctor, private, and blow on these frauds?
He might tell who told him; then the king and the duke would make it warm for me.
Shall I go, private, and tell Mary Jane?
Her face would give them a hint, sure; they've got the money, and they'd slide right out and get away with it.
If she was to fetch in help I'd get mixed up in the business before it was done with, I judge.
No; there ain't no good way but one.
I got to steal that money, somehow; and I got to steal it some way that they won't suspicion that I done it.
They've got a good thing here, and they ain't a-going to leave till they've played this family and this town for all they're worth, so I'll find a chance time enough.
I'll steal it and hide it; and by-and-by, when I'm away down the river, I'll write a letter and tell Mary Jane where it's hid.
But I see I couldn't do nothing without a candle, and I dasn't light one, of course.
So I judged I'd got to do the other thing-lay for them and eavesdrop.
Then I was glad I hadn't found the bed when I wanted it.
And yet, you know, it's kind of natural to hide under the bed when you are up to anything private.
They sets down then, and the king says: "Well, what is it?
And cut it middlin' short, because it's better for us to be down there a-whoopin' up the mournin' than up here givin' 'em a chance to talk us over." "Well, this is it, Capet.
I ain't easy; I ain't comfortable.
That doctor lays on my mind.
I wanted to know your plans.
I've got a notion, and I think it's a sound one." "What is it, duke?" "That we better glide out of this before three in the morning, and clip it down the river with what we've got.
Specially, seeing we got it so easy-_given_ back to us, flung at our heads, as you may say, when of course we allowed to have to steal it back.
I'm for knocking off and lighting out." That made me feel pretty bad.
About an hour or two ago it would a been a little different, but now it made me feel bad and disappointed.
The king rips out and says: "What!
And not sell out the rest o' the property?
We sha'n't rob 'em of nothing at all but jest this money.
The people that _buys_ the property is the suff'rers; because as soon 's it's found out 'at we didn't own it-which won't be long after we've slid-the sale won't be valid, and it'll all go back to the estate.
These yer orphans 'll git their house back agin, and that's enough for _them;_ they're young and spry, and k'n easy earn a livin'. _They_ ain't a-goin to suffer.
Why, jest think-there's thous'n's and thous'n's that ain't nigh so well off.
But the king says: "Cuss the doctor!
What do we k'yer for _him?_ Hain't we got all the fools in town on our side?
And ain't that a big enough majority in any town?" So they got ready to go down stairs again.
The duke says: "I don't think we put that money in a good place." That cheered me up.
I'd begun to think I warn't going to get a hint of no kind to help me.
I stuck tight to the wall and kept mighty still, though quivery; and I wondered what them fellows would say to me if they catched me; and I tried to think what I'd better do if they did catch me.
But the king he got the bag before I could think more than about a half a thought, and he never suspicioned I was around.
I had it out of there before they was half-way down stairs.
I groped along up to my cubby, and hid it there till I could get a chance to do better.
I judged I better hide it outside of the house somewheres, because if they missed it they would give the house a good ransacking: I knowed that very well.
Then I turned in, with my clothes all on; but I couldn't a gone to sleep if I'd a wanted to, I was in such a sweat to get through with the business.
By-and-by I heard the king and the duke come up; so I rolled off my pallet and laid with my chin at the top of my ladder, and waited to see if anything was going to happen.
But nothing did. So I held on till all the late sounds had quit and the early ones hadn't begun yet; and then I slipped down the ladder. CHAPTER XXVII. I crept to their doors and listened; they was snoring.
So I tiptoed along, and got down stairs all right.
There warn't a sound anywheres.
I peeped through a crack of the dining-room door, and see the men that was watching the corpse all sound asleep on their chairs.
The door was open into the parlor, where the corpse was laying, and there was a candle in both rooms.
I run in the parlor and took a swift look around, and the only place I see to hide the bag was in the coffin.
The lid was shoved along about a foot, showing the dead man's face down in there, with a wet cloth over it, and his shroud on.
She went to the coffin, very soft, and kneeled down and looked in; then she put up her handkerchief, and I see she begun to cry, though I couldn't hear her, and her back was to me.
I slid out, and as I passed the dining-room I thought I'd make sure them watchers hadn't seen me; so I looked through the crack, and everything was all right.
They hadn't stirred. I slipped up to bed, feeling ruther blue, on accounts of the thing playing out that way after I had took so much trouble and run so much resk about it.
Then the king 'll get it again, and it 'll be a long day before he gives anybody another chance to smouch it from him.
Of course I _wanted_ to slide down and get it out of there, but I dasn't try it.
Every minute it was getting earlier now, and pretty soon some of them watchers would begin to stir, and I might get catched-catched with six thousand dollars in my hands that nobody hadn't hired me to take care of.
I don't wish to be mixed up in no such business as that, I says to myself. When I got down stairs in the morning the parlor was shut up, and the watchers was gone.
There warn't nobody around but the family and the widow Bartley and our tribe.
He never spoke; he moved people around, he squeezed in late ones, he opened up passageways, and done it with nods, and signs with his hands.
Then he took his place over against the wall.
It was right down awkward, and nobody didn't seem to know what to do.
But pretty soon they see that long-legged undertaker make a sign to the preacher as much as to say, "Don't you worry-just depend on me.
Then he stooped down and begun to glide along the wall, just his shoulders showing over the people's heads.
So he glided along, and the powwow and racket getting more and more outrageous all the time; and at last, when he had gone around two sides of the room, he disappears down cellar.
Then in about two seconds we heard a whack, and the dog he finished up with a most amazing howl or two, and then everything was dead still, and the parson begun his solemn talk where he left off.
You could see it was a great satisfaction to the people, because naturally they wanted to know.
A little thing like that don't cost nothing, and it's just the little things that makes a man to be looked up to and liked.
I was in a sweat then, and watched him pretty keen.
But he never meddled at all; just slid the lid along as soft as mush, and screwed it down tight and fast.
I didn't know whether the money was in there or not.
So, says I, s'pose somebody has hogged that bag on the sly?-now how do _I_ know whether to write to Mary Jane or not?
S'pose she dug him up and didn't find nothing, what would she think of me?
He was very sorry he was so pushed, and so was everybody; they wished he could stay longer, but they said they could see it couldn't be done.
I thought them poor girls and them niggers would break their hearts for grief; they cried around each other, and took on so it most made me down sick to see it.
The girls said they hadn't ever dreamed of seeing the family separated or sold away from the town.
It injured the frauds some; but the old fool he bulled right along, spite of all the duke could say or do, and I tell you the duke was powerful uneasy. Next day was auction day.
About broad day in the morning the king and the duke come up in the garret and woke me up, and I see by their look that there was trouble.
Then the duke says: "What, _all_ of them?" "No-leastways, not all at once-that is, I don't think I ever see them all come _out_ at once but just one time." "Hello!
When was that?" "It was the day we had the funeral.
It warn't early, because I overslept.
I was just starting down the ladder, and I see them." "Well, go on, _go_ on!
How'd they act?" "They didn't do nothing.
And they didn't act anyway much, as fur as I see.
They stood there a-thinking and scratching their heads a minute, and the duke he bust into a kind of a little raspy chuckle, and says: "It does beat all how neat the niggers played their hand.
They let on to be _sorry_ they was going out of this region!
And I believed they _was_ sorry, and so did you, and so did everybody.
Don't ever tell _me_ any more that a nigger ain't got any histrionic talent.
Why, the way they played that thing it would fool _anybody_.
In my opinion, there's a fortune in 'em.
If I had capital and a theater, I wouldn't want a better lay-out than that-and here we've gone and sold 'em for a song. Yes, and ain't privileged to sing the song yet.
Say, where _is_ that song-that draft?" "In the bank for to be collected.
Where _would_ it be?" "Well, _that's_ all right then, thank goodness." Says I, kind of timid-like: "Is something gone wrong?" The king whirls on me and rips out: "None o' your business!
You keep your head shet, and mind y'r own affairs-if you got any.
Long as you're in this town don't you forgit _that_-you hear?
Then he says to the duke, "We got to jest swaller it and say noth'n': mum's the word for _us_." As they was starting down the ladder the duke he chuckles again, and says: "Quick sales _and_ small profits!
It's a good business-yes." v The king snarls around on him and says: "I was trying to do for the best in sellin' 'em out so quick.
He give me down the banks for not coming and _telling_ him I see the niggers come out of his room acting that way-said any fool would a _knowed_ something was up.
And then waltzed in and cussed _himself_ awhile, and said it all come of him not laying late and taking his natural rest that morning, and he'd be blamed if he'd ever do it again.
So they went off a-jawing; and I felt dreadful glad I'd worked it all off on to the niggers, and yet hadn't done the niggers no harm by it. CHAPTER XXVIII. By-and-by it was getting-up time.
But she had stopped now with a folded gown in her lap, and had her face in her hands, crying.
I felt awful bad to see it; of course anybody would.
I went in there and says: "Miss Mary Jane, you can't a-bear to see people in trouble, and _I_ can't-most always.
Tell me about it." So she done it.
And it was the niggers-I just expected it.
I asked her to let me think a minute; and she set there, very impatient and excited and handsome, but looking kind of happy and eased-up, like a person that's had a tooth pulled out.
So I went to studying it out.
I must lay it by in my mind, and think it over some time or other, it's so kind of strange and unregular.
Why?" "Never mind why yet.
She smiled and reddened up very sweet, and I says, "If you don't mind it, I'll shut the door-and bolt it." Then I come back and set down again, and says: "Don't you holler.
Just set still and take it like a man.
Come, don't waste a minute-not a _second_-we'll have them tarred and feathered, and flung in the river!" Says I: "Cert'nly.
But do you mean _before_ you go to Mr. Lothrop's, or-" "Oh," she says, "what am I _thinking_ about!" she says, and set right down again.
Don't mind what I said-please don't-you _won't,_ now, _will_ you?
Laying her silky hand on mine in that kind of a way that I said I would die first.
I never thought, I was so stirred up," she says; "now go on, and I won't do so any more.
Well, we got to save _him_, hain't we?
Well, then, we won't blow on them." Saying them words put a good idea in my head.
I says: "Miss Mary Jane, I'll tell you what we'll do, and you won't have to stay at Mr. Lothrop's so long, nuther.
How fur is it?" "A little short of four miles-right out in the country, back here." "Well, that'll answer.
Now you go along out there, and lay low till nine or half-past to-night, and then get them to fetch you home again-tell them you've thought of something.
If you get here before eleven put a candle in this window, and if I don't turn up wait _till_ eleven, and _then_ if I don't turn up it means I'm gone, and out of the way, and safe.
I could swear they was beats and bummers, that's all, though that's worth something. Well, there's others can do that better than what I can, and they're people that ain't going to be doubted as quick as I'd be.
I'll tell you how to find them.
Gimme a pencil and a piece of paper.
Put it away, and don't lose it.
And they'll come a-biling, too." I judged we had got everything fixed about right now.
So I says: "Just let the auction go right along, and don't worry.
It's just like the way it was with the niggers-it warn't no sale, and the niggers will be back before long.
What was it?" "Why, it's because you ain't one of these leather-face people.
I don't want no better book than what your face is.
A body can set down and read it off like coarse print.
Do you reckon you can go and face your uncles when they come to kiss you good-morning, and never-" "There, there, don't!
Yes, I'll go before breakfast-I'll be glad to. And leave my sisters with them?" "Yes; never mind about them.
They've got to stand it yet a while.
They might suspicion something if all of you was to go.
It was well enough to tell _her_ so-no harm in it.
It was only a little thing to do, and no trouble; and it's the little things that smooths people's roads the most, down here below; it would make Mary Jane comfortable, and it wouldn't cost nothing.
Then I says: "There's one more thing-that bag of money." "Well, they've got that; and it makes me feel pretty silly to think _how_ they got it." "No, you're out, there.
They hain't got it." "Why, who's got it?" "I wish I knowed, but I don't.
I _had_ it, because I stole it from them; and I stole it to give to you; and I know where I hid it, but I'm afraid it ain't there no more.
I'm awful sorry, Miss Mary Jane, I'm just as sorry as I can be; but I done the best I could; I did honest.
Do you reckon that'll do?" "Oh, yes." So I wrote: "I put it in the coffin.
It was in there when you was crying there, away in the night.
I reckoned if she knowed me she'd take a job that was more nearer her size.
But I bet she done it, just the same-she was just that kind.
She had the grit to pray for Judus if she took the notion-there warn't no back-down to her, I judge.
You may say what you want to, but in my opinion she had more sand in her than any girl I ever see; in my opinion she was just full of sand.
It sounds like flattery, but it ain't no flattery.
And when it comes to beauty-and goodness, too-she lays over them all.
Is she took bad?" "It ain't no name for it.
They set up with her all night, Miss Mary Jane said, and they don't think she'll last many hours." "Only think of that, now!
What's the matter with her?" I couldn't think of anything reasonable, right off that way, so I says: "Mumps." "Mumps your granny!
They don't set up with people that's got the mumps." "They don't, don't they?
You better bet they do with _these_ mumps. These mumps is different.
And they call it the _mumps?_" "That's what Miss Mary Jane said." "Well, what in the nation do they call it the _mumps_ for?" "Why, because it _is_ the mumps.
That's what it starts with." "Well, ther' ain't no sense in it.
Would ther' be any sense in that? _No_.
And ther' ain't no sense in _this_, nuther.
Is it ketching?" "Is it _ketching?_ Why, how you talk.
Is a _harrow_ catching-in the dark?
If you don't hitch on to one tooth, you're bound to on another, ain't you?
And you can't get away with that tooth without fetching the whole harrow along, can you?
Well, these kind of mumps is a kind of a harrow, as you may say-and it ain't no slouch of a harrow, nuther, you come to get it hitched on good." "Well, it's awful, _I_ think," says the hare-lip.
I'll go to Uncle Harvey and-" "Oh, yes," I says, "I _would_.
I wouldn't lose no time." "Well, why wouldn't you?" "Just look at it a minute, and maybe you can see.
Hain't your uncles obleegd to get along home to England as fast as they can?
And do you reckon they'd be mean enough to go off and leave you to go all that journey by yourselves? _You_ know they'll wait for you.
Your uncle Harvey's a preacher, ain't he?
Very well, then; is a _preacher_ going to deceive a steamboat clerk? is he going to deceive a _ship clerk?_-so as to get them to let Miss Mary Jane go aboard?
Now _you_ know he ain't.
What _will_ he do, then?
Why, you talk like a muggins." "Well, anyway, maybe you'd better tell some of the neighbors." "Listen at that, now.
You do beat all for natural stupidness.
Can't you _see_ that _they'd_ go and tell?
The girls wouldn't say nothing because they wanted to go to England; and the king and the duke would ruther Mary Jane was off working for the auction than around in reach of Doctor Robinson.
I felt very good; I judged I had done it pretty neat-I reckoned Tom Sawyer couldn't a done it no neater himself.
So they'd got to work _that_ off-I never see such a girafft as the king was for wanting to swallow _everything_.
And, my souls, how the people yelled and laughed, and kept it up.
But I didn't see no joke about it, and I judged it would strain the duke and the king some to see any.
I reckoned they'd turn pale.
But no, nary a pale did _they_ turn.
Oh, he done it admirable.
Lots of the principal people gethered around the king, to let him see they was on his side.
That old gentleman that had just come looked all puzzled to death.
Pretty soon he begun to speak, and I see straight off he pronounced _like_ an Englishman-not the king's way, though the king's _was_ pretty good for an imitation.
I am Peter Wilks' brother Harvey, and this is his brother William, which can't hear nor speak-and can't even make signs to amount to much, now't he's only got one hand to work them with.
We are who we say we are; and in a day or two, when I get the baggage, I can prove it.
That's _mighty_ good!-and mighty ingenious-under the _circumstances!_" So he laughed again; and so did everybody else, except three or four, or maybe half a dozen.
He was up at the Pint that mornin'.
I live up there, don't I?
Well, I was up there, and he was up there.
He come in a canoe, along with Tim Collins and a boy." The doctor he up and says: "Would you know the boy again if you was to see him, Hines?" "I reckon I would, but I don't know.
Why, yonder he is, now.
I know him perfectly easy." It was me he pointed at.
The doctor says: "Neighbors, I don't know whether the new couple is frauds or not; but if _these_ two ain't frauds, I am an idiot, that's all.
I think it's our duty to see that they don't get away from here till we've looked into this thing.
Come along, Hines; come along, the rest of you.
If these men ain't frauds, they won't object to sending for that money and letting us keep it till they prove they're all right-ain't that so?" Everybody agreed to that.
So I judged they had our gang in a pretty tight place right at the outstart.
My servant here k'n tell you 'bout it, gentlemen." The doctor and several said "Shucks!" and I see nobody didn't altogether believe him.
That was all they asked me.
And by-and-by they had me up to tell what I knowed.
The king he give me a left-handed look out of the corner of his eye, and so I knowed enough to talk on the right side.
I reckon you ain't used to lying, it don't seem to come handy; what you want is practice.
But he took the pen and wrote.
So then the lawyer turns to the new old gentleman and says: "You and your brother please write a line or two and sign your names." The old gentleman wrote, but nobody couldn't read it.
Now, here's some letters from-" The new old gentleman says: "If you please, let me explain.
Nobody can read my hand but my brother there-so he copies for me.
It's _his_ hand you've got there, not mine." "_Well!_" says the lawyer, "this _is_ a state of things.
I've got some of William's letters, too; so if you'll get him to write a line or so we can com-" "He _can't_ write with his left hand," says the old gentleman.
If he could use his right hand, you would see that he wrote his own letters and mine too.
Look at both, please-they're by the same hand." The lawyer done it, and says: "I believe it's so-and if it ain't so, there's a heap stronger resemblance than I'd noticed before, anyway.
I thought we was right on the track of a solution, but it's gone to grass, partly.
But anyway, _one_ thing is proved-_these_ two ain't either of 'em Wilkses"-and he wagged his head towards the king and the duke. Well, what do you think?
That muleheaded old fool wouldn't give in _then!_ Indeed he wouldn't.
Said it warn't no fair test.
Said his brother William was the cussedest joker in the world, and hadn't _tried_ to write-_he_ see William was going to play one of his jokes the minute he put the pen to paper.
And so he warmed up and went warbling and warbling right along till he was actuly beginning to believe what he was saying _himself;_ but pretty soon the new gentleman broke in, and says: "I've thought of something.
Is there anybody here that helped to lay out my br-helped to lay out the late Peter Wilks for burying?" "Yes," says somebody, "me and Ab Turner done it.
He whitened a little; he couldn't help it; and it was mighty still in there, and everybody bending a little forwards and gazing at him.
Says I to myself, _Now_ he'll throw up the sponge-there ain't no more use.
A body can't hardly believe it, but he didn't.
I reckon he thought he'd keep the thing up till he tired them people out, so they'd thin out, and him and the duke could break loose and get away.
Anyway, he set there, and pretty soon he begun to smile, and says: "Mf!
It's a _very_ tough question, _ain't_ it! _Yes_, sir, I k'n tell you what's tattooed on his breast.
Was there any such mark on Peter Wilks' breast?" Both of them spoke up and says: "We didn't see no such mark." "Good!" says the old gentleman.
Come, ain't that what you saw?" Both of them spoke up again, and says: "No, we _didn't_.
We never seen any marks at all." Well, everybody _was_ in a state of mind now, and they sings out: "The whole _bilin_' of 'm 's frauds!
Le's duck 'em! le's drown 'em! le's ride 'em on a rail!" and everybody was whooping at once, and there was a rattling powwow.
But the lawyer he jumps on the table and yells, and says: "Gentlemen-gentle_men!_ Hear me just a word-just a _single_ word-if you PLEASE!
There's one way yet-let's go and dig up the corpse and look." That took them. "Hooray!" they all shouted, and was starting right off; but the lawyer and the doctor sung out: "Hold on, hold on!
Collar all these four men and the boy, and fetch _them_ along, too!" "We'll do it!" they all shouted; "and if we don't find them marks we'll lynch the whole gang!" I _was_ scared, now, I tell you.
But there warn't no getting away, you know.
If they didn't find them- I couldn't bear to think about it; and yet, somehow, I couldn't think about nothing else.
It got darker and darker, and it was a beautiful time to give the crowd the slip; but that big husky had me by the wrist-Hines-and a body might as well try to give Goliar the slip.
He dragged me right along, he was so excited, and I had to run to keep up. When they got there they swarmed into the graveyard and washed over it like an overflow.
And when they got to the grave they found they had about a hundred times as many shovels as they wanted, but nobody hadn't thought to fetch a lantern.
No light there; the house all dark-which made me feel sorry and disappointed, I didn't know why.
As I sprung aboard I sung out: "Out with you, Jim, and set her loose!
Cut loose and let her slide!" So in two seconds away we went a-sliding down the river, and it _did_ seem so good to be free again and all by ourselves on the big river, and nobody to bother us.
It didn't seem no good for _me_ to stay-_I_ couldn't do nothing, and I didn't want to be hung if I could get away.
But the duke says: "Leggo the boy, you old idiot!
Would _you_ a done any different?
Did you inquire around for _him_ when you got loose? _I_ don't remember it." So the king let go of me, and begun to cuss that town and everybody in it.
But the duke says: "You better a blame sight give _yourself_ a good cussing, for you're the one that's entitled to it most.
You hain't done a thing from the start that had any sense in it, except coming out so cool and cheeky with that imaginary blue-arrow mark.
That _was_ bright-it was right down bully; and it was the thing that saved us.
For if it hadn't been for that, they'd a jailed us till them Englishmen's baggage come-and then-the penitentiary, you bet!
Don't you reckon _I_ know who hid that money in that coffin?" "_Yes_, sir!
I know you _do_ know, because you done it yourself!" "It's a lie!"-and the duke went for him.
There, now!" "Well, then, I b'lieve you.
But you not only had it in mind to do it, but you _done_ it." "I wisht I never die if I done it, duke, and that's honest.
I won't say I warn't _goin_' to do it, because I _was;_ but you-I mean somebody-got in ahead o' me." "It's a lie!
So the duke took his hands off and says: "If you ever deny it again I'll drown you.
It's _well_ for you to set there and blubber like a baby-it's fitten for you, after the way you've acted.
I never see such an old ostrich for wanting to gobble everything-and I a-trusting you all the time, like you was my own father.
I don't want to hear no more _out_ of you!" says the duke. "And _now_ you see what you _got_ by it.
They've got all their own money back, and all of _ourn_ but a shekel or two _besides_.
That made me feel easy and satisfied.
Of course when they got to snoring we had a long gabble, and I told Jim everything. CHAPTER XXXI. We dasn't stop again at any town for days and days; kept right along down the river.
We was down south in the warm weather now, and a mighty long ways from home.
We begun to come to trees with Spanish moss on them, hanging down from the limbs like long, gray beards.
It was the first I ever see it growing, and it made the woods look solemn and dismal.
So now the frauds reckoned they was out of danger, and they begun to work the villages again. First they done a lecture on temperance; but they didn't make enough for them both to get drunk on.
Then in another village they started a dancing-school; but they didn't know no more how to dance than a kangaroo does; so the first prance they made the general public jumped in and pranced them out of town.
Another time they tried to go at yellocution; but they didn't yellocute long till the audience got up and give them a solid good cussing, and made them skip out.
They tackled missionarying, and mesmerizing, and doctoring, and telling fortunes, and a little of everything; but they couldn't seem to have no luck.
We didn't like the look of it.
We judged they was studying up some kind of worse deviltry than ever.
We turned it over and over, and at last we made up our minds they was going to break into somebody's house or store, or was going into the counterfeit-money business, or something.
The duke he fretted and sweated around, and was in a mighty sour way.
He scolded us for everything, and we couldn't seem to do nothing right; he found fault with every little thing. Something was a-brewing, sure.
I was good and glad when midday come and no king; we could have a change, anyway-and maybe a chance for _the_ change on top of it.
I got down there all out of breath but loaded up with joy, and sung out: "Set her loose, Jim! we're all right now!" But there warn't no answer, and nobody come out of the wigwam.
I set up a shout-and then another-and then another one; and run this way and that in the woods, whooping and screeching; but it warn't no use-old Jim was gone.
Then I set down and cried; I couldn't help it. But I couldn't set still long.
He's a runaway nigger, and they've got him.
Was you looking for him?" "You bet I ain't!
I run across him in the woods about an hour or two ago, and he said if I hollered he'd cut my livers out-and told me to lay down and stay where I was; and I done it.
It's like picking up money out'n the road." "Yes, it is-and _I_ could a had it if I'd been big enough; I see him _first_.
Who nailed him?" "It was an old fellow-a stranger-and he sold out his chance in him for forty dollars, becuz he's got to go up the river and can't wait.
You bet _I'd_ wait, if it was seven year." "That's me, every time," says I.
But maybe his chance ain't worth no more than that, if he'll sell it so cheap.
Maybe there's something ain't straight about it." "But it _is_, though-straight as a string.
I see the handbill myself. It tells all about him, to a dot-paints him like a picture, and tells the plantation he's frum, below Newr_leans_.
No-sirree-_bob_, they ain't no trouble 'bout _that_ speculation, you bet you.
Say, gimme a chaw tobacker, won't ye?" I didn't have none, so he left.
I went to the raft, and set down in the wigwam to think.
But I couldn't come to nothing.
I thought till I wore my head sore, but I couldn't see no way out of the trouble.
That's just the way: a person does a low-down thing, and then he don't want to take no consequences of it.
Thinks as long as he can hide it, it ain't no disgrace.
That was my fix exactly.
The more I studied about this, the more my conscience went to grinding me, and the more wicked and low-down and ornery I got to feeling.
And I about made up my mind to pray, and see if I couldn't try to quit being the kind of a boy I was and be better.
But the words wouldn't come.
It warn't no use to try and hide it from Him.
I knowed very well why they wouldn't come.
It was because my heart warn't right; it was because I warn't square; it was because I was playing double.
I was letting _on_ to give up sin, but away inside of me I was holding on to the biggest one of all.
You can't pray a lie-I found that out. So I was full of trouble, full as I could be; and didn't know what to do.
At last I had an idea; and I says, I'll go and write the letter-and _then_ see if I can pray.
Why, it was astonishing, the way I felt as light as a feather right straight off, and my troubles all gone.
But I didn't do it straight off, but laid the paper down and set there thinking-thinking how good it was all this happened so, and how near I come to being lost and going to hell.
And got to thinking over our trip down the river; and I see Jim before me all the time: in the day and in the night-time, sometimes moonlight, sometimes storms, and we a-floating along, talking and singing and laughing.
But somehow I couldn't seem to strike no places to harden me against him, but only the other kind.
I took it up, and held it in my hand.
I was a-trembling, because I'd got to decide, forever, betwixt two things, and I knowed it.
I studied a minute, sort of holding my breath, and then says to myself: "All right, then, I'll _go_ to hell"-and tore it up. It was awful thoughts and awful words, but they was said.
And I let them stay said; and never thought no more about reforming.
I shoved the whole thing out of my head, and said I would take up wickedness again, which was in my line, being brung up to it, and the other warn't.
But I didn't mind, because I didn't want to see nobody just yet-I only wanted to get the lay of the land.
According to my plan, I was going to turn up there from the village, not from below.
So I just took a look, and shoved along, straight for town.
Well, the very first man I see when I got there was the duke.
He was sticking up a bill for the Royal Nonesuch-three-night performance-like that other time. _They_ had the cheek, them frauds!
I was right on him before I could shirk.
He looked astonished, and says: "Hel-_lo!_ Where'd _you_ come from?
We didn't have no dog, and so we had to chase him all over the country till we tired him out.
We never got him till dark; then we fetched him over, and I started down for the raft.
I slept in the woods all night.
But what _did_ become of the raft, then?-and Jim-poor Jim!" "Blamed if _I_ know-that is, what's become of the raft.
Fact is, I reckon we'd come to consider him _our_ nigger; yes, we did consider him so-goodness knows we had trouble enough for him.
So when we see the raft was gone and we flat broke, there warn't anything for it but to try the Royal Nonesuch another shake.
And I've pegged along ever since, dry as a powder-horn.
The next minute he whirls on me and says: "Do you reckon that nigger would blow on us?
We'd skin him if he done that!" "How can he blow?
Hain't he run off?" "No!
That old fool sold him, and never divided with me, and the money's gone." "_Sold_ him?
I says, and begun to cry; "why, he was _my_ nigger, and that was my money.
Where is he?-I want my nigger." "Well, you can't _get_ your nigger, that's all-so dry up your blubbering.
Looky here-do you think _you'd_ venture to blow on us? Blamed if I think I'd trust you.
Why, if you _was_ to blow on us-" He stopped, but I never see the duke look so ugly out of his eyes before.
I went on a-whimpering, and says: "I don't want to blow on nobody; and I ain't got no time to blow, nohow.
I got to turn out and find my nigger." He looked kinder bothered, and stood there with his bills fluttering on his arm, thinking, and wrinkling up his forehead.
At last he says: "I'll tell you something.
We got to be here three days.
If you'll promise you won't blow, and won't let the nigger blow, I'll tell you where to find him." So I promised, and he says: "A farmer by the name of Silas Ph-" and then he stopped.
You see, he started to tell me the truth; but when he stopped that way, and begun to study and think again, I reckoned he was changing his mind.
He wouldn't trust me; he wanted to make sure of having me out of the way the whole three days.
So pretty soon he says: "The man that bought him is named Abram Foster-Abram G.
Foster-and he lives forty mile back here in the country, on the road to Lafayette." "All right," I says, "I can walk it in three days.
And I'll start this very afternoon." "No you wont, you'll start _now;_ and don't you lose any time about it, neither, nor do any gabbling by the way.
Just keep a tight tongue in your head and move right along, and then you won't get into trouble with _us_, d'ye hear?" That was the order I wanted, and that was the one I played for.
I wanted to be left free to work my plans. "So clear out," he says; "and you can tell Mr. Foster whatever you want to.
Maybe you can get him to believe that Jim _is_ your nigger-some idiots don't require documents-leastways I've heard there's such down South here.
And when you tell him the handbill and the reward's bogus, maybe he'll believe you when you explain to him what the idea was for getting 'em out.
Go 'long now, and tell him anything you want to; but mind you don't work your jaw any _between_ here and there." So I left, and struck for the back country.
I didn't look around, but I kinder felt like he was watching me.
But I knowed I could tire him out at that.
I went straight out in the country as much as a mile before I stopped; then I doubled back through the woods towards Phelps'.
I reckoned I better start in on my plan straight off without fooling around, because I wanted to stop Jim's mouth till these fellows could get away.
I didn't want no trouble with their kind.
As a general thing it makes a body wish _he_ was dead, too, and done with it all. Phelps' was one of these little one-horse cotton plantations, and they all look alike.
And such another powwow as they made!
And here comes the white woman running from the house, about forty-five or fifty year old, bareheaded, and her spinning-stick in her hand; and behind her comes her little white children, acting the same way the little niggers was doing.
Dear, dear, it does seem like I could eat you up!
Children, it's your cousin Tom!-tell him howdy." But they ducked their heads, and put their fingers in their mouths, and hid behind her.
So she run on: "Lize, hurry up and get him a hot breakfast right away-or did you get your breakfast on the boat?" I said I had got it on the boat.
So then she started for the house, leading me by the hand, and the children tagging after.
We been expecting you a couple of days and more.
What kep' you?-boat get aground?" "Yes'm-she-" "Don't say yes'm-say Aunt Sally.
Where'd she get aground?" I didn't rightly know what to say, because I didn't know whether the boat would be coming up the river or down.
But I go a good deal on instinct; and my instinct said she would be coming up-from down towards Orleans.
That didn't help me much, though; for I didn't know the names of bars down that way.
I see I'd got to invent a bar, or forget the name of the one we got aground on-or-Now I struck an idea, and fetched it out: "It warn't the grounding-that didn't keep us back but a little.
We blowed out a cylinder-head." "Good gracious! anybody hurt?" "No'm.
Killed a nigger." "Well, it's lucky; because sometimes people do get hurt.
Two years ago last Christmas your uncle Silas was coming up from Newrleans on the old _Lally Rook_, and she blowed out a cylinder-head and crippled a man. And I think he died afterwards.
Your uncle Silas knowed a family in Baton Rouge that knowed his people very well.
Yes, I remember now, he _did_ die.
Mortification set in, and they had to amputate him.
But it didn't save him.
Yes, it was mortification-that was it.
He turned blue all over, and died in the hope of a glorious resurrection.
They say he was a sight to look at.
Your uncle's been up to the town every day to fetch you.
And he's gone again, not more'n an hour ago; he'll be back any minute now.
You must a met him on the road, didn't you?-oldish man, with a-" "No, I didn't see nobody, Aunt Sally.
I had my mind on the children all the time; I wanted to get them out to one side and pump them a little, and find out who I was.
But I couldn't get no show, Mrs. Phelps kept it up and run on so.
Pretty soon she made the cold chills streak all down my back, because she says: "But here we're a-running on this way, and you hain't told me a word about Sis, nor any of them.
Providence had stood by me this fur all right, but I was hard and tight aground now.
I see it warn't a bit of use to try to go ahead-I'd _got_ to throw up my hand. So I says to myself, here's another place where I got to resk the truth.
I opened my mouth to begin; but she grabbed me and hustled me in behind the bed, and says: "Here he comes!
Stick your head down lower-there, that'll do; you can't be seen now.
Don't you let on you're here.
I'll play a joke on him. Children, don't you say a word." I see I was in a fix now.
He _must_ a come; and you've missed him along the road.
I _know_ it's so-something tells me so." "Why, Sally, I _couldn't_ miss him along the road-_you_ know that." "But oh, dear, dear, what _will_ Sis say!
You must a missed him.
He-" "Oh, don't distress me any more'n I'm already distressed.
I don't know what in the world to make of it.
I'm at my wit's end, and I don't mind acknowledging 't I'm right down scared.
But there's no hope that he's come; for he _couldn't_ come and me miss him.
Sally, it's terrible-just terrible-something's happened to the boat, sure!" "Why, Silas!
Look yonder!-up the road!-ain't that somebody coming?" He sprung to the window at the head of the bed, and that give Mrs. Phelps the chance she wanted.
The old gentleman stared, and says: "Why, who's that?" "Who do you reckon 't is?" "I hain't no idea.
Who _is_ it?" "It's _Tom Sawyer!_" By jings, I most slumped through the floor!
Which was all right, and worked first-rate; because _they_ didn't know but what it would take three days to fix it.
If I'd a called it a bolthead it would a done just as well. Now I was feeling pretty comfortable all down one side, and pretty uncomfortable all up the other.
Being Tom Sawyer was easy and comfortable, and it stayed easy and comfortable till by-and-by I hear a steamboat coughing along down the river.
Then I says to myself, s'pose Tom Sawyer comes down on that boat?
And s'pose he steps in here any minute, and sings out my name before I can throw him a wink to keep quiet?
Well, I couldn't _have_ it that way; it wouldn't do at all.
I must go up the road and waylay him.
So I told the folks I reckoned I would go up to the town and fetch down my baggage.
So, then, what you want to come back and ha'nt _me_ for?" I says: "I hain't come back-I hain't been _gone_." When he heard my voice it righted him up some, but he warn't quite satisfied yet.
He says: "Don't you play nothing on me, because I wouldn't on you.
Honest injun, now, you ain't a ghost?" "Honest injun, I ain't," I says. "Well-I-I-well, that ought to settle it, of course; but I can't somehow seem to understand it no way.
Looky here, warn't you ever murdered _at all?_" "No. I warn't ever murdered at all-I played it on them.
You come in here and feel of me if you don't believe me." So he done it; and it satisfied him; and he was that glad to see me again he didn't know what to do.
And he wanted to know all about it right off, because it was a grand adventure, and mysterious, and so it hit him where he lived.
He said, let him alone a minute, and don't disturb him.
So he thought and thought, and pretty soon he says: "It's all right; I've got it.
There's one more thing-a thing that _nobody_ don't know but me.
And that is, there's a nigger here that I'm a-trying to steal out of slavery, and his name is _Jim_-old Miss Watson's Jim." He says: "What!
Why, Jim is-" He stopped and went to studying.
I says: "_I_ know what you'll say.
You'll say it's dirty, low-down business; but what if it is? _I_'m low down; and I'm a-going to steal him, and I want you keep mum and not let on.
Will you?" His eye lit up, and he says: "I'll _help_ you steal him!" Well, I let go all holts then, like I was shot.
It was the most astonishing speech I ever heard-and I'm bound to say Tom Sawyer fell considerable in my estimation.
Only I couldn't believe it.
Tom Sawyer a _nigger stealer!_ "Oh, shucks!
But of course I forgot all about driving slow on accounts of being glad and full of thinking; so I got home a heap too quick for that length of a trip.
The old gentleman was at the door, and he says: "Why, this is wonderful!
Whoever would a thought it was in that mare to do it?
I wish we'd a timed her.
And she hain't sweated a hair-not a hair.
Why, I wouldn't take a hundred dollars for that horse now-I wouldn't, honest; and yet I'd a sold her for fifteen before, and thought 'twas all she was worth." That's all he said.
Why, I do believe it's a stranger.
Tom was over the stile and starting for the house; the wagon was spinning up the road for the village, and we was all bunched in the front door.
Tom had his store clothes on, and an audience-and that was always nuts for Tom Sawyer.
In them circumstances it warn't no trouble to him to throw in an amount of style that was suitable.
He warn't a boy to meeky along up that yard like a sheep; no, he come ca'm and important, like the ram.
I'll walk-I don't mind the distance." "But we won't _let_ you walk-it wouldn't be Southern hospitality to do it.
Come right in." "Oh, _do_," says Aunt Sally; "it ain't a bit of trouble to us, not a bit in the world.
It's a long, dusty three mile, and we _can't_ let you walk.
And, besides, I've already told 'em to put on another plate when I see you coming; so you mustn't disappoint us.
I've a good notion to take and-Say, what do you mean by kissing me?" He looked kind of humble, and says: "I didn't mean nothing, m'am. I didn't mean no harm.
I-I-thought you'd like it." "Why, you born fool!
She took up the spinning stick, and it looked like it was all she could do to keep from giving him a crack with it. "What made you think I'd like it?" "Well, I don't know.
Only, they-they-told me you would." "_They_ told you I would.
Whoever told you's _another_ lunatic.
I never heard the beat of it.
They all said so, m'am." It was all she could do to hold in; and her eyes snapped, and her fingers worked like she wanted to scratch him; and she says: "Who's 'everybody'?
Out with their names, or ther'll be an idiot short." He got up and looked distressed, and fumbled his hat, and says: "I'm sorry, and I warn't expecting it.
They all told me to.
They all said, kiss her; and said she'd like it.
They all said it-every one of them.
But I'm sorry, m'am, and I won't do it no more-I won't, honest." "You won't, won't you?
Well, I sh'd _reckon_ you won't!" "No'm, I'm honest about it; I won't ever do it again-till you ask me." "Till I _ask_ you!
Well, I never see the beat of it in my born days!
I lay you'll be the Methusalem-numskull of creation before ever I ask you-or the likes of you." "Well," he says, "it does surprise me so.
I can't make it out, somehow. They said you would, and I thought you would.
And after they got a little quiet again she says: "Why, dear me, I never see such a surprise.
We warn't looking for _you_ at all, but only Tom.
But it was a mistake, Aunt Sally.
This ain't no healthy place for a stranger to come." "No-not impudent whelps, Sid.
You ought to had your jaws boxed; I hain't been so put out since I don't know when.
But I don't care, I don't mind the terms-I'd be willing to stand a thousand such jokes to have you here.
Well, to think of that performance!
Well, it made me sick to see it; and I was sorry for them poor pitiful rascals, it seemed like I couldn't ever feel any hardness against them any more in the world.
It was a dreadful thing to see.
Human beings _can_ be awful cruel to one another. We see we was too late-couldn't do no good.
But that's always the way; it don't make no difference whether you do right or wrong, a person's conscience ain't got no sense, and just goes for him _anyway_.
If I had a yaller dog that didn't know no more than a person's conscience does I would pison him.
It takes up more room than all the rest of a person's insides, and yet ain't no good, nohow.
Tom Sawyer he says the same. CHAPTER XXXIV. We stopped talking, and got to thinking.
By-and-by Tom says: "Looky here, Huck, what fools we are to not think of it before!
I bet I know where Jim is." "No!
Where?" "In that hut down by the ash-hopper.
When we was at dinner, didn't you see a nigger man go in there with some vittles?" "Yes." "What did you think the vittles was for?" "For a dog." "So'd I.
Well, it wasn't for a dog." "Why?" "Because part of it was watermelon." "So it was-I noticed it.
Well, it does beat all that I never thought about a dog not eating watermelon.
It shows how a body can see and don't see at the same time." "Well, the nigger unlocked the padlock when he went in, and he locked it again when he came out.
He fetched uncle a key about the time we got up from table-same key, I bet.
Watermelon shows man, lock shows prisoner; and it ain't likely there's two prisoners on such a little plantation, and where the people's all so kind and good.
All right-I'm glad we found it out detective fashion; I wouldn't give shucks for any other way.
Now you work your mind, and study out a plan to steal Jim, and I will study out one, too; and we'll take the one we like the best." What a head for just a boy to have!
If I had Tom Sawyer's head I wouldn't trade it off to be a duke, nor mate of a steamboat, nor clown in a circus, nor nothing I can think of.
I went to thinking out a plan, but only just to be doing something; I knowed very well where the right plan was going to come from.
Pretty soon Tom says: "Ready?" "Yes," I says. "All right-bring it out." "My plan is this," I says.
We can easy find out if it's Jim in there. Then get up my canoe to-morrow night, and fetch my raft over from the island.
Wouldn't that plan work?" "_Work?_ Why, cert'nly it would work, like rats a-fighting.
But it's too blame' simple; there ain't nothing _to_ it.
What's the good of a plan that ain't no more trouble than that?
He told me what it was, and I see in a minute it was worth fifteen of mine for style, and would make Jim just as free a man as mine would, and maybe get us all killed besides.
So I was satisfied, and said we would waltz in on it.
I needn't tell what it was here, because I knowed it wouldn't stay the way, it was.
I knowed he would be changing it around every which way as we went along, and heaving in new bullinesses wherever he got a chance.
I _couldn't_ understand it no way at all.
Don't I generly know what I'm about?" "Yes." "Didn't I _say_ I was going to help steal the nigger?" "Yes." "_Well_, then." That's all he said, and that's all I said.
It warn't no use to say any more; because when he said he'd do a thing, he always done it.
But _I_ couldn't make out how he was willing to go into this thing; so I just let it go, and never bothered no more about it.
If he was bound to have it so, _I_ couldn't help it. When we got home the house was all dark and still; so we went on down to the hut by the ash-hopper for to examine it.
We went through the yard so as to see what the hounds would do.
They knowed us, and didn't make no more noise than country dogs is always doing when anything comes by in the night.
I says: "Here's the ticket.
This hole's big enough for Jim to get through if we wrench off the board." Tom says: "It's as simple as tit-tat-toe, three-in-a-row, and as easy as playing hooky.
It was as long as the hut, but narrow-only about six foot wide.
The door to it was at the south end, and was padlocked.
Tom he went to the soap-kettle and searched around, and fetched back the iron thing they lift the lid with; so he took it and prized out one of the staples.
The match went out, and so did we, and shoved in the staple again, and the door was locked as good as ever.
Tom was joyful. He says; "Now we're all right.
That was to keep witches off.
He got so worked up, and got to running on so about his troubles, he forgot all about what he'd been a-going to do. So Tom says: "What's the vittles for?
Going to feed the dogs?" The nigger kind of smiled around gradually over his face, like when you heave a brickbat in a mud-puddle, and he says: "Yes, Mars Sid, _a_ dog.
Tom he looked at the nigger, steady and kind of wondering, and says: "Does _who_ know us?" "Why, dis-yer runaway nigger." "I don't reckon he does; but what put that into your head?" "What _put_ it dar?
Didn' he jis' dis minute sing out like he knowed you?" Tom says, in a puzzled-up kind of way: "Well, that's mighty curious. _Who_ sung out? _When_ did he sing out? _what_ did he sing out?
I jis' wish to goodness he was heah now-_den_ what would he say!
I jis' bet he couldn' fine no way to git aroun' it _dis_ time.
If I was to catch a nigger that was ungrateful enough to run away, _I_ wouldn't give him up, I'd hang him.
And whilst the nigger stepped to the door to look at the dime and bite it to see if it was good, he whispers to Jim and says: "Don't ever let on to know us.
There ain't even a dog to give a sleeping-mixture to.
And there's Jim chained by one leg, with a ten-foot chain, to the leg of his bed: why, all you got to do is to lift up the bedstead and slip off the chain.
And Uncle Silas he trusts everybody; sends the key to the punkin-headed nigger, and don't send nobody to watch the nigger.
Jim could a got out of that window-hole before this, only there wouldn't be no use trying to travel with a ten-foot chain on his leg.
Why, drat it, Huck, it's the stupidest arrangement I ever see.
You got to invent _all_ the difficulties.
Well, we can't help it; we got to do the best we can with the materials we've got.
Now look at just that one thing of the lantern. When you come down to the cold facts, we simply got to _let on_ that a lantern's resky.
Why, we could work with a torchlight procession if we wanted to, _I_ believe.
Now, whilst I think of it, we got to hunt up something to make a saw out of the first chance we get." "What do we want of a saw?" "What do we _want_ of it?
You _can_ get up the infant-schooliest ways of going at a thing.
Why, hain't you ever read any books at all?-Baron Trenck, nor Casanova, nor Benvenuto Chelleeny, nor Henri IV., nor none of them heroes?
Who ever heard of getting a prisoner loose in such an old-maidy way as that?
Then, the night you're ready, fetch the leg a kick, down she goes; slip off your chain, and there you are.
I wish there was a moat to this cabin.
If we get time, the night of the escape, we'll dig one." I says: "What do we want of a moat when we're going to snake him out from under the cabin?" But he never heard me.
He had forgot me and everything else.
He had his chin in his hand, thinking.
Pretty soon he sighs and shakes his head; then sighs again, and says: "No, it wouldn't do-there ain't necessity enough for it." "For what?
I says. "Why, to saw Jim's leg off," he says. "Good land!
I says; "why, there ain't _no_ necessity for it.
And what would you want to saw his leg off for, anyway?" "Well, some of the best authorities has done it.
They couldn't get the chain off, so they just cut their hand off and shoved.
And a leg would be better still.
But we got to let that go.
There ain't necessity enough in this case; and, besides, Jim's a nigger, and wouldn't understand the reasons for it, and how it's the custom in Europe; so we'll let it go.
But there's one thing-he can have a rope ladder; we can tear up our sheets and make him a rope ladder easy enough.
And we can send it to him in a pie; it's mostly done that way.
And I've et worse pies." "Why, Tom Sawyer, how you talk," I says; "Jim ain't got no use for a rope ladder." "He _has_ got use for it.
How _you_ talk, you better say; you don't know nothing about it.
He's _got_ to have a rope ladder; they all do." "What in the nation can he _do_ with it?" "_Do_ with it?
He can hide it in his bed, can't he?
That's what they all do; and _he's_ got to, too.
Huck, you don't ever seem to want to do anything that's regular; you want to be starting something fresh all the time.
S'pose he _don't_ do nothing with it? ain't it there in his bed, for a clew, after he's gone? and don't you reckon they'll want clews?
And you wouldn't leave them any?
That would be a _pretty_ howdy-do, _wouldn't_ it!
Who ever heard of a state prisoner escaping by a hickry-bark ladder?
Why, it's perfectly ridiculous." "Well, all right, Tom, fix it your own way; but if you'll take my advice, you'll let me borrow a sheet off of the clothesline." He said that would do.
It ain't regular." "Well, then, what'll we make him the ink out of?" "Many makes it out of iron-rust and tears; but that's the common sort and women; the best authorities uses their own blood.
The Iron Mask always done that, and it's a blame' good way, too." "Jim ain't got no tin plates.
They feed him in a pan." "That ain't nothing; we can get him some." "Can't nobody _read_ his plates." "That ain't got anything to _do_ with it, Huck Finn.
All _he's_ got to do is to write on the plate and throw it out.
You don't _have_ to be able to read it.
What does the _prisoner_ care whose-" He broke off there, because we heard the breakfast-horn blowing.
I called it borrowing, because that was what pap always called it; but Tom said it warn't borrowing, it was stealing.
He said we was representing prisoners; and prisoners don't care how they get a thing so they get it, and nobody don't blame them for it, either.
He said if we warn't prisoners it would be a very different thing, and nobody but a mean, ornery person would steal when he warn't a prisoner.
So we allowed we would steal everything there was that come handy.
Tom said that what he meant was, we could steal anything we _needed_.
Well, I says, I needed the watermelon.
But he said I didn't need it to get out of prison with; there's where the difference was.
By-and-by he come out, and we went and set down on the woodpile to talk.
He says: "Everything's all right now except tools; and that's easy fixed." "Tools?
I says. "Yes." "Tools for what?" "Why, to dig with.
We ain't a-going to _gnaw_ him out, are we?" "Ain't them old crippled picks and things in there good enough to dig a nigger out with?
Now I want to ask you-if you got any reasonableness in you at all-what kind of a show would _that_ give him to be a hero?
Why, they might as well lend him the key and done with it.
And there ain't no _other_ way, that ever _I_ heard of, and I've read all the books that gives any information about these things.
They always dig out with a case-knife-and not through dirt, mind you; generly it's through solid rock.
And it takes them weeks and weeks and weeks, and for ever and ever.
A month and a half." "_Thirty-seven year_-and he come out in China. _That's_ the kind.
I wish the bottom of _this_ fortress was solid rock." "_Jim_ don't know nobody in China." "What's _that_ got to do with it?
Neither did that other fellow.
But you're always a-wandering off on a side issue.
Why can't you stick to the main point?" "All right-_I_ don't care where he comes out, so he _comes_ out; and Jim don't, either, I reckon.
But there's one thing, anyway-Jim's too old to be dug out with a case-knife.
He won't last." "Yes he will _last_, too.
Then his next move will be to advertise Jim, or something like that.
So we can't resk being as long digging him out as we ought to.
By rights I reckon we ought to be a couple of years; but we can't.
Things being so uncertain, what I recommend is this: that we really dig right in, as quick as we can; and after that, we can _let on_, to ourselves, that we was at it thirty-seven years.
Then we can snatch him out and rush him away the first time there's an alarm.
Yes, I reckon that'll be the best way." "Now, there's _sense_ in that," I says.
Letting on don't cost nothing; letting on ain't no trouble; and if it's any object, I don't mind letting on we was at it a hundred and fifty year.
Run along and smouch the knives-three of them.
So I done it. CHAPTER XXXVI. As soon as we reckoned everybody was asleep that night we went down the lightning-rod, and shut ourselves up in the lean-to, and got out our pile of fox-fire, and went to work.
We cleared everything out of the way, about four or five foot along the middle of the bottom log.
At last I says: "This ain't no thirty-seven year job; this is a thirty-eight year job, Tom Sawyer." He never said nothing.
But he sighed, and pretty soon he stopped digging, and then for a good little while I knowed that he was thinking.
Then he says: "It ain't no use, Huck, it ain't a-going to work.
But _we_ can't fool along; we got to rush; we ain't got no time to spare.
Picks is the thing, moral or no moral; and as for me, I don't care shucks for the morality of it, nohow.
When I start in to steal a nigger, or a watermelon, or a Sunday-school book, I ain't no ways particular how it's done so it's done.
It might answer for _you_ to dig Jim out with a pick, _without_ any letting on, because you don't know no better; but it wouldn't for me, because I do know better.
Gimme a case-knife." He had his own by him, but I handed him mine.
He flung it down, and says: "Gimme a _case-knife_." I didn't know just what to do-but then I thought.
I scratched around amongst the old tools, and got a pickaxe and give it to him, and he took it and went to work, and never said a word. He was always just that particular.
Full of principle. So then I got a shovel, and then we picked and shoveled, turn about, and made the fur fly.
We stuck to it about a half an hour, which was as long as we could stand up; but we had a good deal of a hole to show for it.
When I got up stairs I looked out at the window and see Tom doing his level best with the lightning-rod, but he couldn't come it, his hands was so sore.
At last he says: "It ain't no use, it can't be done.
What you reckon I better do?
Can't you think of no way?" "Yes," I says, "but I reckon it ain't regular.
By-and-by he said he had ciphered out two or three ways, but there warn't no need to decide on any of them yet.
Then we whirled in with the pick and shovel, and in about two hours and a half the job was done.
We'll send you some things by them." I said, "Don't do nothing of the kind; it's one of the most jackass ideas I ever struck;" but he never paid no attention to me; went right on.
And told him how to keep a journal on the shirt with his blood, and all that.
Tom was in high spirits.
He said that in that way it could be strung out to as much as eighty year, and would be the best time on record.
By jings, we forgot to fasten that lean-to door!
The nigger Nat he only just hollered "Witches" once, and keeled over on to the floor amongst the dogs, and begun to groan like he was dying.
Mars Sid, I _felt_ um-I _felt_ um, sah; dey was all over me.
Dad fetch it, I jis' wisht I could git my han's on one er dem witches jis' wunst-on'y jis' wunst-it's all _I_'d ast.
But mos'ly I wisht dey'd lemme 'lone, I does." Tom says: "Well, I tell you what _I_ think.
What makes them come here just at this runaway nigger's breakfast-time?
It's because they're hungry; that's the reason.
You make them a witch pie; that's the thing for _you_ to do." "But my lan', Mars Sid, how's _I_ gwyne to make 'm a witch pie?
I doan' know how to make it.
I hain't ever hearn er sich a thing b'fo'." "Well, then, I'll have to make it myself." "Will you do it, honey?-will you?
I'll wusshup de groun' und' yo' foot, I will!" "All right, I'll do it, seeing it's you, and you've been good to us and showed us the runaway nigger.
But you got to be mighty careful.
When we come around, you turn your back; and then whatever we've put in the pan, don't you let on you see it at all.
And don't you look when Jim unloads the pan-something might happen, I don't know what.
And above all, don't you _handle_ the witch-things." "_Hannel_ 'm, Mars Sid?
What _is_ you a-talkin' 'bout?
I wouldn' lay de weight er my finger on um, not f'r ten hund'd thous'n billion dollars, I wouldn't." CHAPTER XXXVII. That was all fixed.
But after that we was all right again-it was the sudden surprise of it that knocked us so kind of cold.
Uncle Silas he says: "It's most uncommon curious, I can't understand it.
I know perfectly well I took it _off_, because-" "Because you hain't got but one _on_.
Just _listen_ at the man! _I_ know you took it off, and know it by a better way than your wool-gethering memory, too, because it was on the clo's-line yesterday-I see it there myself.
But it's gone, that's the long and the short of it, and you'll just have to change to a red flann'l one till I can get time to make a new one.
And it'll be the third I've made in two years.
And the shirt ain't all that's gone, nuther. Ther's a spoon gone; and _that_ ain't all.
There was ten, and now ther's only nine.
The calf got the shirt, I reckon, but the calf never took the spoon, _that's_ certain." "Why, what else is gone, Sally?" "Ther's six _candles_ gone-that's what.
Matilda Angelina Araminta _Phelps!_" Whack comes the thimble, and the child snatches her claws out of the sugar-bowl without fooling around any.
Just then the nigger woman steps on to the passage, and says: "Missus, dey's a sheet gone." "A _sheet_ gone!
Well, for the land's sake!" "I'll stop up them holes _to-day_," says Uncle Silas, looking sorrowful. "Oh, _do_ shet up!-s'pose the rats took the _sheet?
Where's_ it gone, Lize?" "Clah to goodness I hain't no notion, Miss' Sally.
She wuz on de clo'sline yistiddy, but she done gone: she ain' dah no mo' now." "I reckon the world _is_ coming to an end.
I _never_ see the beat of it in all my born days.
A shirt, and a sheet, and a spoon, and six can-" "Missus," comes a young yaller wench, "dey's a brass cannelstick miss'n." "Cler out from here, you hussy, er I'll take a skillet to ye!" Well, she was just a-biling.
I begun to lay for a chance; I reckoned I would sneak out and go for the woods till the weather moderated.
She kept a-raging right along, running her insurrection all by herself, and everybody else mighty meek and quiet; and at last Uncle Silas, looking kind of foolish, fishes up that spoon out of his pocket.
She stopped, with her mouth open and her hands up; and as for me, I wished I was in Jeruslem or somewheres.
But not long, because she says: "It's _just_ as I expected.
So you had it in your pocket all the time; and like as not you've got the other things there, too.
How'd it get there?" "I reely don't know, Sally," he says, kind of apologizing, "or you know I would tell.
Give a body a rest!
Then we heard steps on the stairs, and blowed out our light and hid; and here comes the old man, with a candle in one hand and a bundle of stuff in t'other, looking as absent-minded as year before last.
He went a mooning around, first to one rat-hole and then another, till he'd been to them all.
Then he stood about five minutes, picking tallow-drip off of his candle and thinking.
Then he turns off slow and dreamy towards the stairs, saying: "Well, for the life of me I can't remember when I done it.
I could show her now that I warn't to blame on account of the rats.
But never mind-let it go.
I reckon it wouldn't do no good." And so he went on a-mumbling up stairs, and then we left.
He was a mighty nice old man.
And always is. Tom was a good deal bothered about what to do for a spoon, but he said we'd got to have it; so he took a think.
But she counted and counted till she got that addled she'd start to count in the _basket_ for a spoon sometimes; and so, three times they come out right, and three times they come out wrong.
So we had the odd spoon, and dropped it in her apron-pocket whilst she was a-giving us our sailing orders, and Jim got it all right, along with her shingle nail, before noon.
So then we laid in with Jim the second night, and tore up the sheet all in little strings and twisted them together, and long before daylight we had a lovely rope that you could a hung a person with.
We let on it took nine months to make it. And in the forenoon we took it down to the woods, but it wouldn't go into the pie.
Being made of a whole sheet, that way, there was rope enough for forty pies if we'd a wanted them, and plenty left over for soup, or sausage, or anything you choose.
We could a had a whole dinner. But we didn't need it.
All we needed was just enough for the pie, and so we throwed the rest away.
That's the one which the prisoner has to scrabble on the wall.
Why, Huck, s'pose it _is_ considerble trouble?-what you going to do?-how you going to get around it?
Jim's _got_ to do his inscription and coat of arms.
By-and-by he said he'd struck so many good ones he didn't hardly know which to take, but there was one which he reckoned he'd decide on.
What's a fess?" "A fess-a fess is-_you_ don't need to know what a fess is.
I'll show him how to make it when he gets to it." "Shucks, Tom," I says, "I think you might tell a person.
What's a bar sinister?" "Oh, _I_ don't know.
But he's got to have it.
All the nobility does." That was just his way.
If it didn't suit him to explain a thing to you, he wouldn't do it.
When he got done he couldn't no way make up his mind which one for Jim to scrabble on to the wall, they was all so good; but at last he allowed he would let him scrabble them all on.
Then pretty soon he says: "Come to think, the logs ain't a-going to do; they don't have log walls in a dungeon: we got to dig the inscriptions into a rock.
We'll fetch a rock." Jim said the rock was worse than the logs; he said it would take him such a pison long time to dig them into a rock he wouldn't ever get out.
But Tom said he would let me help him do it.
Then he took a look to see how me and Jim was getting along with the pens.
It was most pesky tedious hard work and slow, and didn't give my hands no show to get well of the sores, and we didn't seem to make no headway, hardly; so Tom says: "I know how to fix it.
It warn't quite midnight yet, so we cleared out for the mill, leaving Jim at work.
We smouched the grindstone, and set out to roll her home, but it was a most nation tough job.
Sometimes, do what we could, we couldn't keep her from falling over, and she come mighty near mashing us every time.
Tom said she was going to get one of us, sure, before we got through.
We got her half way; and then we was plumb played out, and most drownded with sweat.
We see it warn't no use; we got to go and fetch Jim.
He could out-superintend any boy I ever see.
He knowed how to do everything. Our hole was pretty big, but it warn't big enough to get the grindstone through; but Jim he took the pick and soon made it big enough.
Then we helped him fix his chain back on the bed-leg, and was ready for bed ourselves.
But Tom thought of something, and says: "You got any spiders in here, Jim?" "No, sah, thanks to goodness I hain't, Mars Tom." "All right, we'll get you some." "But bless you, honey, I doan' _want_ none.
I jis' 's soon have rattlesnakes aroun'." Tom thought a minute or two, and says: "It's a good idea.
And I reckon it's been done.
It _must_ a been done; it stands to reason.
Yes, it's a prime good idea.
Where could you keep it?" "Keep what, Mars Tom?" "Why, a rattlesnake." "De goodness gracious alive, Mars Tom!
Why, if dey was a rattlesnake to come in heah I'd take en bust right out thoo dat log wall, I would, wid my head." "Why, Jim, you wouldn't be afraid of it after a little.
You could tame it." "_Tame_ it!" "Yes-easy enough.
Every animal is grateful for kindness and petting, and they wouldn't _think_ of hurting a person that pets them.
Any book will tell you that.
You try-that's all I ask; just try for two or three days.
He'd _let_ me shove his head in my mouf-fer a favor, hain't it?
I lay he'd wait a pow'ful long time 'fo' I _ast_ him.
En mo' en dat, I doan' _want_ him to sleep wid me." "Jim, don't act so foolish.
Snake take 'n bite Jim's chin off, den _whah_ is de glory?
I never knowed b'fo' 't was so much bother and trouble to be a prisoner." "Well, it _always_ is when it's done right.
You got any rats around here?" "No, sah, I hain't seed none." "Well, we'll get you some rats." "Why, Mars Tom, I doan' _want_ no rats.
Dey's de dadblamedest creturs to 'sturb a body, en rustle roun' over 'im, en bite his feet, when he's tryin' to sleep, I ever see.
No, sah, gimme g'yarter-snakes, 'f I's got to have 'm, but doan' gimme no rats; I hain' got no use f'r um, skasely." "But, Jim, you _got_ to have 'em-they all do.
So don't make no more fuss about it.
Prisoners ain't ever without rats.
There ain't no instance of it.
And they train them, and pet them, and learn them tricks, and they get to be as sociable as flies.
But you got to play music to them.
A jews-harp's plenty good enough for a rat.
All animals like music-in a prison they dote on it.
Specially, painful music; and you can't get no other kind out of a jews-harp.
It always interests them; they come out to see what's the matter with you.
Yes, you're all right; you're fixed very well.
And they'll just fairly swarm over you, and have a noble good time." "Yes, _dey_ will, I reck'n, Mars Tom, but what kine er time is _Jim_ havin'?
Blest if I kin see de pint.
But I'll do it ef I got to.
I reck'n I better keep de animals satisfied, en not have no trouble in de house." Tom waited to think it over, and see if there wasn't nothing else; and pretty soon he says: "Oh, there's one thing I forgot.
Some other prisoners has done it." "One er dem big cat-tail-lookin' mullen-stalks would grow in heah, Mars Tom, I reck'n, but she wouldn't be wuth half de trouble she'd coss." "Don't you believe it.
We'll fetch you a little one and you plant it in the corner over there, and raise it.
And don't call it mullen, call it Pitchiola-that's its right name when it's in a prison.
You _got_ to do it with tears." "She'll die on my han's, Mars Tom, she sholy will; kase I doan' skasely ever cry." So Tom was stumped.
But he studied it over, and then said Jim would have to worry along the best he could with an onion.
He promised he would go to the nigger cabins and drop one, private, in Jim's coffee-pot, in the morning.
The family was at home.
We didn't give it right up, but stayed with them as long as we could; because we allowed we'd tire them out or they'd got to tire us out, and they done it.
Then we got allycumpain and rubbed on the places, and was pretty near all right again, but couldn't set down convenient.
But it didn't matter much, because they was still on the premises somewheres.
So we judged we could get some of them again.
No, there warn't no real scarcity of snakes about the house for a considerable spell.
You'd see them dripping from the rafters and places every now and then; and they generly landed in your plate, or down the back of your neck, and most of the time where you didn't want them.
I never see such a woman.
And you could hear her whoop to Jericho.
You couldn't get her to take a-holt of one of them with the tongs.
And if she turned over and found one in bed she would scramble out and lift a howl that you would think the house was afire.
She disturbed the old man so that he said he could most wish there hadn't ever been no snakes created.
But Tom said all women was just so.
I didn't mind the lickings, because they didn't amount to nothing; but I minded the trouble we had to lay in another lot.
But we got them laid in, and all the other things; and you never see a cabin as blithesome as Jim's was when they'd all swarm out for music and go for him.
Jim didn't like the spiders, and the spiders didn't like Jim; and so they'd lay for him, and make it mighty warm for him.
We reckoned we was all going to die, but didn't.
It was the most undigestible sawdust I ever see; and Tom said the same. But as I was saying, we'd got all the work done now, at last; and we was all pretty much fagged out, too, but mainly Jim.
So Tom said, now for the nonnamous letters. "What's them?
I says. "Warnings to the people that something is up.
Sometimes it's done one way, sometimes another.
But there's always somebody spying around that gives notice to the governor of the castle.
When Louis XVI. was going to light out of the Tooleries, a servant-girl done it.
It's a very good way, and so is the nonnamous letters.
And it's usual for the prisoner's mother to change clothes with him, and she stays in, and he slides out in her clothes.
We'll do that, too." "But looky here, Tom, what do we want to _warn_ anybody for that something's up?
Let them find it out for themselves-it's their lookout." "Yes, I know; but you can't depend on them.
It's the way they've acted from the very start-left us to do _everything_.
They're so confiding and mullet-headed they don't take notice of nothing at all.
So I says: "But I ain't going to make no complaint.
Any way that suits you suits me.
What you going to do about the servant-girl?" "You'll be her.
The thing for us to do is just to do our _duty_, and not worry about whether anybody _sees_ us do it or not.
Hain't you got no principle at all?" "All right, I ain't saying nothing; I'm the servant-girl.
Who's Jim's mother?" "I'm his mother.
I'll hook a gown from Aunt Sally." "Well, then, you'll have to stay in the cabin when me and Jim leaves." "Not much.
I'll stuff Jim's clothes full of straw and lay it on his bed to represent his mother in disguise, and Jim 'll take the nigger woman's gown off of me and wear it, and we'll all evade together.
When a prisoner of style escapes it's called an evasion.
It's always called so when a king escapes, f'rinstance.
Keep a sharp lookout._ UNKNOWN FRIEND. Next night we stuck a picture, which Tom drawed in blood, of a skull and crossbones on the front door; and next night another one of a coffin on the back door.
I never see a family in such a sweat.
They couldn't a been worse scared if the place had a been full of ghosts laying for them behind everything and under the beds and shivering through the air.
So the thing was working very well, Tom said; he said he never see a thing work more satisfactory.
He said it showed it was done right. So he said, now for the grand bulge!
Tom he went down the lightning-rod to spy around; and the nigger at the back door was asleep, and he stuck it in the back of his neck and come back.
This letter said: Don't betray me, I wish to be your friend.
There is a desprate gang of cutthroats from over in the Indian Territory going to steal your runaway nigger to-night, and they have been trying to scare you so as you will stay in the house and not bother them.
I am one of the gang, but have got religgion and wish to quit it and lead an honest life again, and will betray the helish design.
They will sneak down from northards, along the fence, at midnight exact, with a false key, and go in the nigger's cabin to get him.
Don't do anything but just the way I am telling you, if you do they will suspicion something and raise whoop-jamboreehoo.
And then mosey right down the lightning-rod and come along.
I'll go and stuff the straw into Jim's clothes to represent his mother in disguise, and be ready to _ba_ like a sheep and shove soon as you get there." So out he went, and down cellar went I.
Fifteen farmers, and every one of them had a gun.
Now cler out to bed, and don't lemme see no more of you till morning!" I was up stairs in a second, and down the lightning-rod in another one, and shinning through the dark for the lean-to.
Why, Huck, if it was to do over again, I bet I could fetch two hundred!
If we could put it off till-" "Hurry! _hurry!_" I says.
Where's Jim?" "Right at your elbow; if you reach out your arm you can touch him.
He's dressed, and everything's ready.
But we got under all right, and out through the hole, swift but soft-Jim first, me next, and Tom last, which was according to Tom's orders.
Now we was in the lean-to, and heard trampings close by outside.
Answer, or I'll shoot!" But we didn't answer; we just unfurled our heels and shoved.
Then there was a rush, and a _bang, bang, bang!_ and the bullets fairly whizzed around us!
We heard them sing out: "Here they are!
They've broke for the river!
After 'em, boys, and turn loose the dogs!" So here they come, full tilt.
We could hear them because they wore boots and yelled, but we didn't wear no boots and didn't yell.
We was in the path to the mill; and when they got pretty close on to us we dodged into the bush and let them go by, and then dropped in behind them.
And when we stepped onto the raft I says: "_Now_, old Jim, you're a free man _again_, and I bet you won't ever be a slave no more." "En a mighty good job it wuz, too, Huck.
It was hurting him considerable, and bleeding; so we laid him in the wigwam and tore up one of the duke's shirts for to bandage him, but he says: "Gimme the rags; I can do it myself.
Don't stop now; don't fool around here, and the evasion booming along so handsome; man the sweeps, and set her loose!
Boys, we done it elegant!-'deed we did.
Man the sweeps-man the sweeps!" But me and Jim was consulting-and thinking.
And after we'd thought a minute, I says: "Say it, Jim." So he says: "Well, den, dis is de way it look to me, Huck.
Ef it wuz _him_ dat 'uz bein' sot free, en one er de boys wuz to git shot, would he say, 'Go on en save me, nemmine 'bout a doctor f'r to save dis one?
Is dat like Mars Tom Sawyer?
You _bet_ he wouldn't! _Well_, den, is _Jim_ gywne to say it?
And after a minute, he says: "How'd you say he got shot?" "He had a dream," I says, "and it shot him." "Singular dream," he says. So he lit up his lantern, and got his saddle-bags, and we started.
But when he sees the canoe he didn't like the look of her-said she was big enough for one, but didn't look pretty safe for two.
But I said I didn't; so I told him just how to find the raft, and then he started. I struck an idea pretty soon.
I says to myself, spos'n he can't fix that leg just in three shakes of a sheep's tail, as the saying is? spos'n it takes him three or four days?
What are we going to do?-lay around there till he lets the cat out of the bag?
No, sir; I know what _I'll_ do.
I shot out and went for the doctor's house, but they told me he'd gone away in the night some time or other, and warn't back yet.
Well, thinks I, that looks powerful bad for Tom, and I'll dig out for the island right off.
So away I shoved, and turned the corner, and nearly rammed my head into Uncle Silas's stomach!
He says: "Why, _Tom!_ Where you been all this time, you rascal?" "_I_ hain't been nowheres," I says, "only just hunting for the runaway nigger-me and Sid." "Why, where ever did you go?" he says.
Your aunt's been mighty uneasy." "She needn't," I says, "because we was all right.
Old Mrs. Hotchkiss was the worst; her tongue was a-going all the time.
She says: "Well, Sister Phelps, I've ransacked that-air cabin over, an' I b'lieve the nigger was crazy.
I says to Sister Damrell-didn't I, Sister Damrell?-s'I, he's crazy, s'I-them's the very words I said.
You all hearn me: he's crazy, s'I; everything shows it, s'I.
Sh-she, look at that-air rag ladder, sh-she; 'n' s'I, yes, _look_ at it, s'I-what _could_ he a-wanted of it, s'I.
Sh-she, Sister Hotchkiss, sh-she-" "But how in the nation'd they ever _git_ that grindstone _in_ there, _any_way? 'n' who dug that-air _hole?_ 'n' who-" "My very _words_, Brer Penrod!
I was a-sayin'-pass that-air sasser o' m'lasses, won't ye?-I was a-sayin' to Sister Dunlap, jist this minute, how _did_ they git that grindstone in there, s'I.
Without _help_, mind you-'thout _help!
It's jist as I was a-sayin' to Brer Phelps, his own self.
S'e, what do _you_ think of it, Sister Hotchkiss, s'e?
Think o' what, Brer Phelps, s'I?
Think o' that bed-leg sawed off that a way, s'e? _think_ of it, s'I?
I says to Sister Dunlap, s'I-" "Why, dog my cats, they must a ben a house-full o' niggers in there every night for four weeks to a done all that work, Sister Phelps.
Look at that shirt-every last inch of it kivered over with secret African writ'n done with blood!
Must a ben a raft uv 'm at it right along, all the time, amost.
Why, I'd give two dollars to have it read to me; 'n' as for the niggers that wrote it, I 'low I'd take 'n' lash 'm t'll-" "People to _help_ him, Brother Marples!
Well, I reckon you'd _think_ so if you'd a been in this house for a while back.
Why, they've stole everything they could lay their hands on-and we a-watching all the time, mind you.
I tell you, it just bangs anything I ever _heard_ of.
Why, _sperits_ couldn't a done better and been no smarter.
And I reckon they must a _been_ sperits-because, _you_ know our dogs, and ther' ain't no better; well, them dogs never even got on the _track_ of 'm once!
Why, they'd steal the very-why, goodness sakes, you can guess what kind of a fluster _I_ was in by the time midnight come last night.
I hope to gracious if I warn't afraid they'd steal some o' the family!
I was just to that pass I didn't have no reasoning faculties no more.
But I dasn't go fur, or she'd a sent for me.
So then she kissed me, and patted me on the head, and dropped into a kind of a brown study; and pretty soon jumps up, and says: "Why, lawsamercy, it's most night, and Sid not come yet!
What _has_ become of that boy?" I see my chance; so I skips up and says: "I'll run right up to town and get him," I says. "No you won't," she says.
You'll stay right wher' you are; _one's_ enough to be lost at a time.
If he ain't here to supper, your uncle 'll go." Well, he warn't there to supper; so right after supper uncle went. He come back about ten a little bit uneasy; hadn't run across Tom's track.
Aunt Sally was a good _deal_ uneasy; but Uncle Silas he said there warn't no occasion to be-boys will be boys, he said, and you'll see this one turn up in the morning all sound and right.
So she had to be satisfied.
And when she was going away she looked down in my eyes so steady and gentle, and says: "The door ain't going to be locked, Tom, and there's the window and the rod; but you'll be good, _won't_ you?
She says: "Why, it's from St. Petersburg-it's from Sis." I allowed another walk would do me good; but I couldn't stir.
But before she could break it open she dropped it and run-for she see something.
It was Tom Sawyer on a mattress; and that old doctor; and Jim, in _her_ calico dress, with his hands tied behind him; and a lot of people.
I hid the letter behind the first thing that come handy, and rushed.
But the others said, don't do it, it wouldn't answer at all; he ain't our nigger, and his owner would turn up and make us pay for him, sure.
Of course I judged he must be a runaway nigger, and there I _was!_ and there I had to stick right straight along all the rest of the day and all night.
It was a fix, I tell you!
I liked the nigger for that; I tell you, gentlemen, a nigger like that is worth a thousand dollars-and kind treatment, too.
Then they all agreed that Jim had acted very well, and was deserving to have some notice took of it, and reward.
So every one of them promised, right out and hearty, that they wouldn't cuss him no more. Then they come out and locked him up.
So I set down and laid for him to wake.
In about half an hour Aunt Sally comes gliding in, and there I was, up a stump again!
Where's the raft?" "It's all right," I says. "And _Jim?_" "The same," I says, but couldn't say it pretty brash.
But he never noticed, but says: "Good!
Splendid! _Now_ we're all right and safe!
Did you tell Aunty?" I was going to say yes; but she chipped in and says: "About what, Sid?" "Why, about the way the whole thing was done." "What whole thing?" "Why, _the_ whole thing.
There ain't but one; how we set the runaway nigger free-me and Tom." "Good land!
Set the run- What _is_ the child talking about!
Dear, dear, out of his head again!" "_No_, I ain't out of my HEAD; I know all what I'm talking about.
We _did_ set him free-me and Tom.
We laid out to do it, and we _done_ it. And we done it elegant, too.
So it was _you_, you little rapscallions, that's been making all this trouble, and turned everybody's wits clean inside out and scared us all most to death.
I've as good a notion as ever I had in my life to take it out o' you this very minute.
Who'd you reckon?" Tom looks at me very grave, and says: "Tom, didn't you just tell me he was all right?
Hasn't he got away?" "_Him?_" says Aunt Sally; "the runaway nigger?
Turn him loose! he ain't no slave; he's as free as any cretur that walks this earth!" "What _does_ the child mean?" "I mean every word I _say_, Aunt Sally, and if somebody don't go, _I'll_ go.
I've knowed him all his life, and so has Tom, there.
And I peeped out, and in a little while Tom's Aunt Polly shook herself loose and stood there looking across at Tom over her spectacles-kind of grinding him into the earth, you know.
And then she says: "Yes, you _better_ turn y'r head away-I would if I was you, Tom." "Oh, deary me!" says Aunt Sally; "_is_ he changed so?
Why, that ain't _Tom_, it's Sid; Tom's-Tom's-why, where is Tom?
He was here a minute ago." "You mean where's Huck _Finn_-that's what you mean!
I reckon I hain't raised such a scamp as my Tom all these years not to know him when I _see_ him.
That _would_ be a pretty howdy-do.
Come out from under that bed, Huck Finn." So I done it.
But not feeling brash. Aunt Sally she was one of the mixed-upest-looking persons I ever see-except one, and that was Uncle Silas, when he come in and they told it all to him.
I might have expected it, letting him go off that way without anybody to watch him.
I be bound, if I have to take aholt of you I'll-" "They're in the trunk.
And they're just the same as they was when I got them out of the office.
I hain't looked into them, I hain't touched them.
But I knowed they'd make trouble, and I thought if you warn't in no hurry, I'd-" "Well, you _do_ need skinning, there ain't no mistake about it.
I _tole_ you I got a hairy breas', en what's de sign un it; en I _tole_ you I ben rich wunst, en gwineter to be rich _agin;_ en it's come true; en heah she _is!
But I reckon I got to light out for the Territory ahead of the rest, because Aunt Sally she's going to adopt me and sivilize me, and I can't stand it.
I been there before. THE END.
The House of the Seven Gables by Nathaniel Hawthorne With an introduction by George Parsons Lathrop Contents INTRODUCTORY NOTE AUTHOR'S PREFACE I.
THE DEPARTURE INTRODUCTORY NOTE THE HOUSE OF THE SEVEN GABLES. In September of the year during the February of which Hawthorne had completed "The Scarlet Letter," he began "The House of the Seven Gables.
This circumstance doubtless furnished a hint for that piece of tradition in the book which represents a Pyncheon of a former generation as having persecuted one Maule, who declared that God would give his enemy "blood to drink.
Furthermore, there occurs in the "American Note-Books" (August 27, 1837), a reminiscence of the author's family, to the following effect.
Philip English, a character well-known in early Salem annals, was among those who suffered from John Hathorne's magisterial harshness, and he maintained in consequence a lasting feud with the old Puritan official.
But at his death English left daughters, one of whom is said to have married the son of Justice John Hathorne, whom English had declared he would never forgive.
It is scarcely necessary to point out how clearly this foreshadows the final union of those hereditary foes, the Pyncheons and Maules, through the marriage of Phoebe and Holgrave.
Allusion is made, in the first chapter of the "Seven Gables," to a grant of lands in Waldo County, Maine, owned by the Pyncheon family.
An incident of much greater importance in the story is the supposed murder of one of the Pyncheons by his nephew, to whom we are introduced as Clifford Pyncheon.
In all probability Hawthorne connected with this, in his mind, the murder of Mr. White, a wealthy gentleman of Salem, killed by a man whom his nephew had hired.
This took place a few years after Hawthorne's graduation from college, and was one of the celebrated cases of the day, Daniel Webster taking part prominently in the trial.
Notwithstanding persistent popular belief, the authenticity of all these must positively be denied; although it is possible that isolated reminiscences of all three may have blended with the ideal image in the mind of Hawthorne.
T. Headley, James Russell Lowell, Edwin P.
Whipple, Frederika Bremer, and J.
Fields; so that there was no lack of intellectual society in the midst of the beautiful and inspiring mountain scenery of the place.
A letter written by Mrs. Hawthorne, at this time, to a member of her family, gives incidentally a glimpse of the scene, which may properly find a place here.
The pleasantness and peace of his surroundings and of his modest home, in Lenox, may be taken into account as harmonizing with the mellow serenity of the romance then produced.
He had asked her if she would not like him to become an author and have his books read in England. G.
The latter form of composition is presumed to aim at a very minute fidelity, not merely to the possible, but to the probable and ordinary course of man's experience.
If he think fit, also, he may so manage his atmospherical medium as to bring out or mellow the lights and deepen and enrich the shadows of the picture.
The point of view in which this tale comes under the Romantic definition lies in the attempt to connect a bygone time with the very present that is flitting away from us.
In good faith, however, he is not sufficiently imaginative to flatter himself with the slightest hope of this kind.
When romances do really teach anything, or produce any effective operation, it is usually through a far more subtile process than the ostensible one.
If permitted by the historical connection,-which, though slight, was essential to his plan,-the author would very willingly have avoided anything of this nature.
Not to speak of other objections, it exposes the romance to an inflexible and exceedingly dangerous species of criticism, by bringing his fancy-pictures almost into positive contact with the realities of the moment.
The street is Pyncheon Street; the house is the old Pyncheon House; and an elm-tree, of wide circumference, rooted before the door, is familiar to every town-born child by the title of the Pyncheon Elm.
Were these to be worthily recounted, they would form a narrative of no small interest and instruction, and possessing, moreover, a certain remarkable unity, which might almost seem the result of artistic arrangement.
Pyncheon Street formerly bore the humbler appellation of Maule's Lane, from the name of the original occupant of the soil, before whose cottage-door it was a cow-path.
Colonel Pyncheon, the claimant, as we gather from whatever traits of him are preserved, was characterized by an iron energy of purpose.
The mode of his death, too, affects the mind differently, in our day, from what it did a century and a half ago.
Amid the disorder of such various ruin, it is not strange that a man of inconsiderable note, like Maule, should have trodden the martyr's path to the hill of execution almost unremarked in the throng of his fellow sufferers.
It was well known that the victim had recognized the bitterness of personal enmity in his persecutor's conduct towards him, and that he declared himself hunted to death for his spoil.
Without absolutely expressing a doubt whether the stalwart Puritan had acted as a man of conscience and integrity throughout the proceedings which have been sketched, they, nevertheless, hinted that he was about to build his house over an unquiet grave.
The terror and ugliness of Maule's crime, and the wretchedness of his punishment, would darken the freshly plastered walls, and infect them early with the scent of an old and melancholy house.
Had he been told of a bad air, it might have moved him somewhat; but he was ready to encounter an evil spirit on his own ground.
Endowed with commonsense, as massive and hard as blocks of granite, fastened together by stern rigidity of purpose, as with iron clamps, he followed out his original design, probably without so much as imagining an objection to it.
On the score of delicacy, or any scrupulousness which a finer sensibility might have taught him, the Colonel, like most of his breed and generation, was impenetrable.
He therefore dug his cellar, and laid the deep foundations of his mansion, on the square of earth whence Matthew Maule, forty years before, had first swept away the fallen leaves.
It was a curious, and, as some people thought, an ominous fact, that, very soon after the workmen began their operations, the spring of water, above mentioned, entirely lost the deliciousness of its pristine quality.
Whether its sources were disturbed by the depth of the new cellar, or whatever subtler cause might lurk at the bottom, it is certain that the water of Maule's Well, as it continued to be called, grew hard and brackish.
Not improbably he was the best workman of his time; or, perhaps, the Colonel thought it expedient, or was impelled by some better feeling, thus openly to cast aside all animosity against the race of his fallen antagonist.
At all events, Thomas Maule became the architect of the House of the Seven Gables, and performed his duty so faithfully that the timber framework fastened by his hands still holds together. Thus the great house was built.
A ceremony of consecration, festive as well as religious, was now to be performed.
The carcass of a deer, shot within twenty miles, had supplied material for the vast circumference of a pasty.
A codfish of sixty pounds, caught in the bay, had been dissolved into the rich liquid of a chowder.
The chimney of the new house, in short, belching forth its kitchen smoke, impregnated the whole air with the scent of meats, fowls, and fishes, spicily concocted with odoriferous herbs, and onions in abundance.
All, as they approached, looked upward at the imposing edifice, which was henceforth to assume its rank among the habitations of mankind.
There it rose, a little withdrawn from the line of the street, but in pride, not modesty.
On every side the seven gables pointed sharply towards the sky, and presented the aspect of a whole sisterhood of edifices, breathing through the spiracles of one great chimney.
Carved globes of wood were affixed under the jutting stories.
Little spiral rods of iron beautified each of the seven peaks.
Under this arched doorway, scraping their feet on the unworn threshold, now trod the clergymen, the elders, the magistrates, the deacons, and whatever of aristocracy there was in town or county.
Thither, too, thronged the plebeian classes as freely as their betters, and in larger number.
He was as yet invisible; the most favored of the guests had not beheld him.
This sluggishness on Colonel Pyncheon's part became still more unaccountable, when the second dignitary of the province made his appearance, and found no more ceremonious a reception.
Summon Colonel Pyncheon at once!
I know that he received letters from England this morning; and, in the perusal and consideration of them, an hour may have passed away without his noticing it.
I will take the matter into my own hands.
Then, looking round, with a smile, to the spectators, he awaited a response.
It rustled the silken garments of the ladies, and waved the long curls of the gentlemen's wigs, and shook the window-hangings and the curtains of the bedchambers; causing everywhere a singular stir, which yet was more like a hush.
Letters, parchments, and blank sheets of paper were on the table before him.
It was too late to give assistance.
The iron-hearted Puritan, the relentless persecutor, the grasping and strong-willed man was dead!
Dead, in his new house!
The rank, wealth, and eminent character of the deceased must have insured the strictest scrutiny into every ambiguous circumstance.
As none such is on record, it is safe to assume that none existed.
Tradition,-which sometimes brings down truth that history has let slip, but is oftener the wild babble of the time, such as was formerly spoken at the fireside and now congeals in newspapers,-tradition is responsible for all contrary averments.
In Colonel Pyncheon's funeral sermon, which was printed, and is still extant, the Rev. Mr. Higginson enumerates, among the many felicities of his distinguished parishioner's earthly career, the happy seasonableness of his death.
It might fairly be anticipated that the progress of time would rather increase and ripen their prosperity, than wear away and destroy it.
When the pathless forest that still covered this wild principality should give place-as it inevitably must, though perhaps not till ages hence-to the golden fertility of human culture, it would be the source of incalculable wealth to the Pyncheon blood.
But, in course of time, the territory was partly regranted to more favored individuals, and partly cleared and occupied by actual settlers.
This impalpable claim, therefore, resulted in nothing more solid than to cherish, from generation to generation, an absurd delusion of family importance, which all along characterized the Pyncheons.
It caused the poorest member of the race to feel as if he inherited a kind of nobility, and might yet come into the possession of princely wealth to support it.
In the better specimens of the breed, this peculiarity threw an ideal grace over the hard material of human life, without stealing away any truly valuable quality.
In the baser sort, its effect was to increase the liability to sluggishness and dependence, and induce the victim of a shadowy hope to remit all self-effort, while awaiting the realization of his dreams.
Years and years after their claim had passed out of the public memory, the Pyncheons were accustomed to consult the Colonel's ancient map, which had been projected while Waldo County was still an unbroken wilderness.
His character, indeed, might be traced all the way down, as distinctly as if the Colonel himself, a little diluted, had been gifted with a sort of intermittent immortality on earth.
Now the Seven Gables will be new-shingled!
From father to son, they clung to the ancestral house with singular tenacity of home attachment.
If so, we are left to dispose of the awful query, whether each inheritor of the property-conscious of wrong, and failing to rectify it-did not commit anew the great guilt of his ancestor, and incur all its original responsibilities.
Had we the secret of that mirror, we would gladly sit down before it, and transfer its revelations to our page.
If one of the family did but gurgle in his throat, a bystander would be likely enough to whisper, between jest and earnest, "He has Maule's blood to drink!
The sudden death of a Pyncheon, about a hundred years ago, with circumstances very similar to what have been related of the Colonel's exit, was held as giving additional probability to the received opinion on this topic.
It was considered, moreover, an ugly and ominous circumstance, that Colonel Pyncheon's picture-in obedience, it was said, to a provision of his will-remained affixed to the wall of the room in which he died.
Those stern, immitigable features seemed to symbolize an evil influence, and so darkly to mingle the shadow of their presence with the sunshine of the passing hour, that no good thoughts or purposes could ever spring up and blossom there.
During the Revolution, the Pyncheon of that epoch, adopting the royal side, became a refugee; but repented, and made his reappearance, just at the point of time to preserve the House of the Seven Gables from confiscation.
Certain circumstances attending this fatal occurrence had brought the deed irresistibly home to a nephew of the deceased Pyncheon.
This sad affair had chanced about thirty years before the action of our story commences.
He was an old bachelor, and possessed of great wealth, in addition to the house and real estate which constituted what remained of the ancient Pyncheon property.
The new heir, up to the period of his accession, was reckoned rather a dissipated youth, but had at once reformed, and made himself an exceedingly respectable member of society.
In fact, he showed more of the Pyncheon quality, and had won higher eminence in the world, than any of his race since the time of the original Puritan.
Later, he had engaged in politics, and served a part of two terms in Congress, besides making a considerable figure in both branches of the State legislature.
Judge Pyncheon was unquestionably an honor to his race.
In respect to natural increase, the breed had not thriven; it appeared rather to be dying out.
The last and youngest Pyncheon was a little country-girl of seventeen, the daughter of another of the Judge's cousins, who had married a young woman of no family or property, and died early and in poor circumstances.
Nor would it have been singular had they ceased to remember that the House of the Seven Gables was resting its heavy framework on a foundation that was rightfully their own.
Such is the case now, after so many ancient prejudices have been overthrown; and it was far more so in ante-Revolutionary days, when the aristocracy could venture to be proud, and the low were content to be abased.
Thus the Maules, at all events, kept their resentments within their own breasts.
It was this indefinable peculiarity, perhaps, that, by insulating them from human aid, kept them always so unfortunate in life.
The mantle, or rather the ragged cloak, of old Matthew Maule had fallen upon his children.
They were half believed to inherit mysterious attributes; the family eye was said to possess strange power.
Among other good-for-nothing properties and privileges, one was especially assigned them,-that of exercising an influence over people's dreams.
The Pyncheons, if all stories were true, haughtily as they bore themselves in the noonday streets of their native town, were no better than bond-servants to these plebeian Maules, on entering the topsy-turvy commonwealth of sleep.
Doubtless, however, the whole story of human existence may be latent in each of them, but with no picturesqueness, externally, that can attract the imagination or sympathy to seek it there.
But as for the old structure of our story, its white-oak frame, and its boards, shingles, and crumbling plaster, and even the huge, clustered chimney in the midst, seemed to constitute only the least and meanest part of its reality.
So much of mankind's varied experience had passed there,-so much had been suffered, and something, too, enjoyed,-that the very timbers were oozy, as with the moisture of a heart.
In front, just on the edge of the unpaved sidewalk, grew the Pyncheon Elm, which, in reference to such trees as one usually meets with, might well be termed gigantic.
It gave beauty to the old edifice, and seemed to make it a part of nature. The street having been widened about forty years ago, the front gable was now precisely on a line with it.
Behind the house there appeared to be a garden, which undoubtedly had once been extensive, but was now infringed upon by other enclosures, or shut in by habitations and outbuildings that stood on another street.
They were called Alice's Posies.
This same shop-door had been a subject of no slight mortification to the present occupant of the august Pyncheon House, as well as to some of her predecessors.
The matter is disagreeably delicate to handle; but, since the reader must needs be let into the secret, he will please to understand, that, about a century ago, the head of the Pyncheons found himself involved in serious financial difficulties.
It was the custom of the time, indeed, for merchants to store their goods and transact business in their own dwellings.
The old counter, shelves, and other fixtures of the little shop remained just as he had left them.
The Old Maid was alone in the old house.
Inaudible, consequently, were poor Miss Hepzibah's gusty sighs.
Inaudible the creaking joints of her stiffened knees, as she knelt down by the bedside.
Not with such fervor prays the torpid recluse, looking forward to the cold, sunless, stagnant calm of a day that is to be like innumerable yesterdays. The maiden lady's devotions are concluded.
Will she now issue forth over the threshold of our story?
Not yet, by many moments.
First, every drawer in the tall, old-fashioned bureau is to be opened, with difficulty, and with a succession of spasmodic jerks then, all must close again, with the same fidgety reluctance.
There is a rustling of stiff silks; a tread of backward and forward footsteps to and fro across the chamber.
We suspect Miss Hepzibah, moreover, of taking a step upward into a chair, in order to give heedful regard to her appearance on all sides, and at full length, in the oval, dingy-framed toilet-glass, that hangs above her table.
Truly! well, indeed! who would have thought it!
Let us pardon her one other pause; for it is given to the sole sentiment, or, we might better say,-heightened and rendered intense, as it has been, by sorrow and seclusion,-to the strong passion of her life.
It was once our good fortune to see this picture.
Of the possessor of such features we shall have a right to ask nothing, except that he would take the rude world easily, and make himself happy in it.
Can it have been an early lover of Miss Hepzibah?
No; she never had a lover-poor thing, how could she?-nor ever knew, by her own experience, what love technically means.
There are tears to be wiped off.
A few more footsteps to and fro; and here, at last,-with another pitiful sigh, like a gust of chill, damp wind out of a long-closed vault, the door of which has accidentally been set, ajar-here comes Miss Hepzibah Pyncheon!
The reflected radiance served to show, pretty distinctly, the aspect and arrangement of the room which Hepzibah entered, after descending the stairs.
There was a carpet on the floor, originally of rich texture, but so worn and faded in these latter years that its once brilliant figure had quite vanished into one indistinguishable hue.
The latter object, being more successfully depicted by the artist, stood out in far greater prominence than the sacred volume.
But it was no such thing.
How miserably cross I look!" she must often have whispered to herself; and ultimately have fancied herself so, by a sense of inevitable doom.
But her heart never frowned.
It was naturally tender, sensitive, and full of little tremors and palpitations; all of which weaknesses it retained, while her visage was growing so perversely stern, and even fierce.
Nor had Hepzibah ever any hardihood, except what came from the very warmest nook in her affections. All this time, however, we are loitering faintheartedly on the threshold of our story.
It treasured itself up, too, in the half-open till, where there still lingered a base sixpence, worth neither more nor less than the hereditary pride which had here been put to shame.
Such had been the state and condition of the little shop in old Hepzibah's childhood, when she and her brother used to play at hide-and-seek in its forsaken precincts.
So it had remained, until within a few days past. But now, though the shop-window was still closely curtained from the public gaze, a remarkable change had taken place in its interior.
The rich and heavy festoons of cobweb, which it had cost a long ancestral succession of spiders their life's labor to spin and weave, had been carefully brushed away from the ceiling.
The counter, shelves, and floor had all been scoured, and the latter was overstrewn with fresh blue sand.
The brown scales, too, had evidently undergone rigid discipline, in an unavailing effort to rub off the rust, which, alas! had eaten through and through their substance.
Neither was the little old shop any longer empty of merchantable goods.
A curious eye, privileged to take an account of stock and investigate behind the counter, would have discovered a barrel, yea, two or three barrels and half ditto,-one containing flour, another apples, and a third, perhaps, Indian meal.
There was likewise a square box of pine-wood, full of soap in bars; also, another of the same size, in which were tallow candles, ten to the pound.
For instance, there was a glass pickle-jar, filled with fragments of Gibraltar rock; not, indeed, splinters of the veritable stone foundation of the famous fortress, but bits of delectable candy, neatly done up in white paper.
Who could this bold adventurer be?
And, of all places in the world, why had he chosen the House of the Seven Gables as the scene of his commercial speculations? We return to the elderly maiden.
Passing through an intervening passage, she opened a door that communicated with the shop, just now so elaborately described.
Owing to the projection of the upper story-and still more to the thick shadow of the Pyncheon Elm, which stood almost directly in front of the gable-the twilight, here, was still as much akin to night as morning.
Another heavy sigh from Miss Hepzibah!
In the aspect of this dark-arrayed, pale-faced, ladylike old figure there was a deeply tragic character that contrasted irreconcilably with the ludicrous pettiness of her employment.
Yet such is undoubtedly her object.
There, again, she has upset a tumbler of marbles, all of which roll different ways, and each individual marble, devil-directed, into the most difficult obscurity that it can find.
Heaven help our poor old Hepzibah, and forgive us for taking a ludicrous view of her position!
For here,-and if we fail to impress it suitably upon the reader, it is our own fault, not that of the theme, here is one of the truest points of melancholy interest that occur in ordinary life.
It was the final throe of what called itself old gentility.
Poverty, treading closely at her heels for a lifetime, has come up with her at last.
She must earn her own food, or starve!
The tragedy is enacted with as continual a repetition as that of a popular drama on a holiday, and, nevertheless, is felt as deeply, perhaps, as when an hereditary noble sinks below his order.
More deeply; since, with us, rank is the grosser substance of wealth and a splendid establishment, and has no spiritual existence after the death of these, but dies hopelessly along with them.
And, therefore, since we have been unfortunate enough to introduce our heroine at so inauspicious a juncture, we would entreat for a mood of due solemnity in the spectators of her fate.
Now, in that very house, to be the hucksteress of a cent-shop. This business of setting up a petty shop is almost the only resource of women, in circumstances at all similar to those of our unfortunate recluse.
With her near-sightedness, and those tremulous fingers of hers, at once inflexible and delicate, she could not be a seamstress; although her sampler, of fifty years gone by, exhibited some of the most recondite specimens of ornamental needlework.
A school for little children had been often in her thoughts; and, at one time, she had begun a review of her early studies in the New England Primer, with a view to prepare herself for the office of instructress.
Besides, in our day, the very ABC has become a science greatly too abstruse to be any longer taught by pointing a pin from letter to letter.
Her humble preparations, therefore, were duly made, and the enterprise was now to be commenced.
She stole on tiptoe to the window, as cautiously as if she conceived some bloody-minded villain to be watching behind the elm-tree, with intent to take her life.
It might have been fancied, indeed, that she expected to minister to the wants of the community unseen, like a disembodied divinity or enchantress, holding forth her bargains to the reverential and awe-stricken purchaser in an invisible hand.
But Hepzibah had no such flattering dream.
The town appeared to be waking up.
A baker's cart had already rattled through the street, chasing away the latest vestige of night's sanctity with the jingle-jangle of its dissonant bells.
A milkman was distributing the contents of his cans from door to door; and the harsh peal of a fisherman's conch shell was heard far off, around the corner.
None of these tokens escaped Hepzibah's notice.
To delay longer would be only to lengthen out her misery.
Nothing remained, except to take down the bar from the shop-door, leaving the entrance free-more than free-welcome, as if all were household friends-to every passer-by, whose eyes might be attracted by the commodities at the window.
This last act Hepzibah now performed, letting the bar fall with what smote upon her excited nerves as a most astounding clatter.
What tragic dignity, for example, can be wrought into a scene like this!
Her visage is not even ugly.
It is redeemed from insignificance only by the contraction of her eyebrows into a near-sighted scowl.
And, finally, her great life-trial seems to be, that, after sixty years of idleness, she finds it convenient to earn comfortable bread by setting up a shop in a small way.
Nevertheless, if we look through all the heroic fortunes of mankind, we shall find this same entanglement of something mean and trivial with whatever is noblest in joy or sorrow.
Life is made up of marble and mud.
And, without all the deeper trust in a comprehensive sympathy above us, we might hence be led to suspect the insult of a sneer, as well as an immitigable frown, on the iron countenance of fate.
She was suddenly startled by the tinkling alarum-high, sharp, and irregular-of a little bell.
Its ugly and spiteful little din (heard now for the first time, perhaps, since Hepzibah's periwigged predecessor had retired from trade) at once set every nerve of her body in responsive and tumultuous vibration.
The crisis was upon her!
Any ordinary customer, indeed, would have turned his back and fled.
And yet there was nothing fierce in Hepzibah's poor old heart; nor had she, at the moment, a single bitter thought against the world at large, or one individual man or woman.
She wished them all well, but wished, too, that she herself were done with them, and in her quiet grave. The applicant, by this time, stood within the doorway.
Coming freshly, as he did, out of the morning light, he appeared to have brought some of its cheery influences into the shop along with him.
It was a slender young man, not more than one or two and twenty years old, with rather a grave and thoughtful expression for his years, but likewise a springy alacrity and vigor.
These qualities were not only perceptible, physically, in his make and motions, but made themselves felt almost immediately in his character.
A brown beard, not too silken in its texture, fringed his chin, but as yet without completely hiding it; he wore a short mustache, too, and his dark, high-featured countenance looked all the better for these natural ornaments.
As for his dress, it was of the simplest kind; a summer sack of cheap and ordinary material, thin checkered pantaloons, and a straw hat, by no means of the finest braid.
Oak Hall might have supplied his entire equipment.
I wish I were dead, and in the old family tomb, with all my forefathers!
With my father, and my mother, and my sister!
Yes, and with my brother, who had far better find me there than here!
I find nothing so singular in life, as that everything appears to lose its substance the instant one actually grapples with it.
So it will be with what you think so terrible." "But I am a woman!" said Hepzibah piteously.
I was going to say, a lady,-but I consider that as past." "Well; no matter if it be past!" answered the artist, a strange gleam of half-hidden sarcasm flashing through the kindliness of his manner. "Let it go!
You are the better without it.
I speak frankly, my dear Miss Pyncheon!-for are we not friends?
I look upon this as one of the fortunate days of your life.
It ends an epoch and begins one.
This is success,-all the success that anybody meets with!" "It is natural enough, Mr. Holgrave, that you should have ideas like these," rejoined Hepzibah, drawing up her gaunt figure with slightly offended dignity.
You are a man, a young man, and brought up, I suppose, as almost everybody is nowadays, with a view to seeking your fortune.
These names of gentleman and lady had a meaning, in the past history of the world, and conferred privileges, desirable or otherwise, on those entitled to bear them.
In the present-and still more in the future condition of society-they imply, not privilege, but restriction!" "These are new notions," said the old gentlewoman, shaking her head.
Do you really think, Miss Hepzibah, that any lady of your family has ever done a more heroic thing, since this house was built, than you are performing in it to-day?
If old Maule's ghost, or a descendant of his, could see me behind the counter to-day, he would call it the fulfillment of his worst wishes.
But I thank you for your kindness, Mr. Holgrave, and will do my utmost to be a good shop-keeper." "Pray do" said Holgrave, "and let me have the pleasure of being your first customer.
I am about taking a walk to the seashore, before going to my rooms, where I misuse Heaven's blessed sunshine by tracing out human features through its agency.
A few of those biscuits, dipt in sea-water, will be just what I need for breakfast.
A Pyncheon must not, at all events under her forefathers' roof, receive money for a morsel of bread from her only friend!" Holgrave took his departure, leaving her, for the moment, with spirits not quite so much depressed.
Soon, however, they had subsided nearly to their former dead level.
With a beating heart, she listened to the footsteps of early passengers, which now began to be frequent along the street.
Once or twice they seemed to linger; these strangers, or neighbors, as the case might be, were looking at the display of toys and petty commodities in Hepzibah's shop-window.
It seemed as if the whole fortune or failure of her shop might depend on the display of a different set of articles, or substituting a fairer apple for one which appeared to be specked.
After some slight talk about their own affairs, one of them chanced to notice the shop-window, and directed the other's attention to it. "See here!" cried he; "what do you think of this?
Trade seems to be looking up in Pyncheon Street!" "Well, well, this is a sight, to be sure!" exclaimed the other.
In the old Pyncheon House, and underneath the Pyncheon Elm!
Who would have thought it?
Old Maid Pyncheon is setting up a cent-shop!" "Will she make it go, think you, Dixey?" said his friend.
I don't call it a very good stand.
There's another shop just round the corner." "Make it go!" cried Dixey, with a most contemptuous expression, as if the very idea were impossible to be conceived.
Not a bit of it!
Why, her face-I've seen it, for I dug her garden for her one year-her face is enough to frighten the Old Nick himself, if he had ever so great a mind to trade with her.
People can't stand it, I tell you!
She scowls dreadfully, reason or none, out of pure ugliness of temper." "Well, that's not so much matter," remarked the other man.
These sour-tempered folks are mostly handy at business, and know pretty well what they are about.
But, as you say, I don't think she'll do much. This business of keeping cent-shops is overdone, like all other kinds of trade, handicraft, and bodily labor.
I know it, to my cost!
She was absurdly hurt, moreover, by the slight and idle effect that her setting up shop-an event of such breathless interest to herself-appeared to have upon the public, of which these two men were the nearest representatives.
A glance; a passing word or two; a coarse laugh; and she was doubtless forgotten before they turned the corner. They cared nothing for her dignity, and just as little for her degradation.
Then, also, the augury of ill-success, uttered from the sure wisdom of experience, fell upon her half-dead hope like a clod into a grave.
The man's wife had already tried the same experiment, and failed!
So many and so magnificent shops as there were!
On one side of the street this splendid bazaar, with a multitude of perfumed and glossy salesmen, smirking, smiling, bowing, and measuring out the goods.
On the other, the dusky old House of the Seven Gables, with the antiquated shop-window under its projecting story, and Hepzibah herself, in a gown of rusty black silk, behind the counter, scowling at the world as it went by!
This mighty contrast thrust itself forward as a fair expression of the odds against which she was to begin her struggle for a subsistence.
Preposterous! She would never think of it again!
The old gentlewoman's heart seemed to be attached to the same steel spring, for it went through a series of sharp jerks, in unison with the sound.
The door was thrust open, although no human form was perceptible on the other side of the half-window.
Hepzibah, nevertheless, stood at a gaze, with her hands clasped, looking very much as if she had summoned up an evil spirit, and were afraid, yet resolved, to hazard the encounter. "Heaven help me!" she groaned mentally.
Now is my hour of need!" The door, which moved with difficulty on its creaking and rusty hinges, being forced quite open, a square and sturdy little urchin became apparent, with cheeks as red as an apple.
A book and a small slate, under his arm, indicated that he was on his way to school.
No matter for the cent.
You are welcome to Jim Crow." The child, staring with round eyes at this instance of liberality, wholly unprecedented in his large experience of cent-shops, took the man of gingerbread, and quitted the premises.
No sooner had he reached the sidewalk (little cannibal that he was!) than Jim Crow's head was in his mouth.
As he had not been careful to shut the door, Hepzibah was at the pains of closing it after him, with a pettish ejaculation or two about the troublesomeness of young people, and particularly of small boys.
Looking somewhat chagrined, he put the coin into Hepzibah's hand, and departed, sending the second Jim Crow in quest of the former one.
The new shop-keeper dropped the first solid result of her commercial enterprise into the till.
The sordid stain of that copper coin could never be washed away from her palm.
The little schoolboy, aided by the impish figure of the negro dancer, had wrought an irreparable ruin.
The structure of ancient aristocracy had been demolished by him, even as if his childish gripe had torn down the seven-gabled mansion.
Now let Hepzibah turn the old Pyncheon portraits with their faces to the wall, and take the map of her Eastern territory to kindle the kitchen fire, and blow up the flame with the empty breath of her ancestral traditions!
What had she to do with ancestry?
Nothing; no more than with posterity!
No lady, now, but simply Hepzibah Pyncheon, a forlorn old maid, and keeper of a cent-shop! Nevertheless, even while she paraded these ideas somewhat ostentatiously through her mind, it is altogether surprising what a calmness had come over her.
The anxiety and misgivings which had tormented her, whether asleep or in melancholy day-dreams, ever since her project began to take an aspect of solidity, had now vanished quite away.
She felt the novelty of her position, indeed, but no longer with disturbance or affright.
Now and then, there came a thrill of almost youthful enjoyment.
It was the invigorating breath of a fresh outward atmosphere, after the long torpor and monotonous seclusion of her life. So wholesome is effort!
So miraculous the strength that we do not know of!
The healthiest glow that Hepzibah had known for years had come now in the dreaded crisis, when, for the first time, she had put forth her hand to help herself.
It was as potent, and perhaps endowed with the same kind of efficacy, as a galvanic ring!
As a general rule, Providence seldom vouchsafes to mortals any more than just that degree of encouragement which suffices to keep them at a reasonably full exertion of their powers.
In the case of our old gentlewoman, after the excitement of new effort had subsided, the despondency of her whole life threatened, ever and anon, to return.
It was like the heavy mass of clouds which we may often see obscuring the sky, and making a gray twilight everywhere, until, towards nightfall, it yields temporarily to a glimpse of sunshine.
She wanted a few pounds of flour, and offered the money, which the decayed gentlewoman silently rejected, and gave the poor soul better measure than if she had taken it.
Who ever heard of such a thing?
Your loaf will never rise, no more than mine will to-day.
They evidently considered themselves not merely her equals, but her patrons and superiors.
On the other hand, nothing tortured her more intolerably than when this recognition was too prominently expressed.
She's a real old vixen, take my word of it!
But, unfortunately, she had likewise to struggle against a bitter emotion of a directly opposite kind: a sentiment of virulence, we mean, towards the idle aristocracy to which it had so recently been her pride to belong.
Must the whole world toil, that the palms of her hands may be kept white and delicate?" Then, ashamed and penitent, she hid her face. "May God forgive me!" said she. Doubtless, God did forgive her.
His gold-headed cane, too,-a serviceable staff, of dark polished wood,-had similar traits, and, had it chosen to take a walk by itself, would have been recognized anywhere as a tolerably adequate representative of its master.
He would have made a good and massive portrait; better now, perhaps, than at any previous period of his life, although his look might grow positively harsh in the process of being fixed upon the canvas.
His eye rested on the shop-window, and putting up a pair of gold-bowed spectacles, which he held in his hand, he minutely surveyed Hepzibah's little arrangement of toys and commodities.
At first it seemed not to please him,-nay, to cause him exceeding displeasure,-and yet, the very next moment, he smiled.
While the latter expression was yet on his lips, he caught a glimpse of Hepzibah, who had involuntarily bent forward to the window; and then the smile changed from acrid and disagreeable to the sunniest complacency and benevolence.
What does he think of it, I wonder?
Ah! he is looking back!" The gentleman had paused in the street, and turned himself half about, still with his eyes fixed on the shop-window.
What a grand appetite had this small urchin!-Two Jim Crows immediately after breakfast!-and now an elephant, as a preliminary whet before dinner.
You have seen my little shop-window.
At length she paused before the portrait of the stern old Puritan, her ancestor, and the founder of the house.
For, while the physical outline and substance were darkening away from the beholder's eye, the bold, hard, and, at the same time, indirect character of the man seemed to be brought out in a kind of spiritual relief.
Such an effect may occasionally be observed in pictures of antique date.
Let Jaffrey Pyncheon smile as he will, there is that look beneath!
Put on him a skull-cap, and a band, and a black cloak, and a Bible in one hand and a sword in the other,-then let Jaffrey smile as he might,-nobody would doubt that it was the old Pyncheon come again.
He has proved himself the very man to build up a new house!
Perhaps, too, to draw down a new curse!" Thus did Hepzibah bewilder herself with these fantasies of the old time.
She had dwelt too much alone,-too long in the Pyncheon House,-until her very brain was impregnated with the dry-rot of its timbers.
Malbone's miniature, though from the same original, was far inferior to Hepzibah's air-drawn picture, at which affection and sorrowful remembrance wrought together.
Soft, mildly, and cheerfully contemplative, with full, red lips, just on the verge of a smile, which the eyes seemed to herald by a gentle kindling-up of their orbs! Feminine traits, moulded inseparably with those of the other sex!
He never was a Pyncheon!" But here the shop-bell rang; it was like a sound from a remote distance,-so far had Hepzibah descended into the sepulchral depths of her reminiscences.
On entering the shop, she found an old man there, a humble resident of Pyncheon Street, and whom, for a great many years past, she had suffered to be a kind of familiar of the house.
He was an immemorial personage, who seemed always to have had a white head and wrinkles, and never to have possessed but a single tooth, and that a half-decayed one, in the front of the upper jaw.
Well advanced as Hepzibah was, she could not remember when Uncle Venner, as the neighborhood called him, had not gone up and down the street, stooping a little and drawing his feet heavily over the gravel or pavement.
But still there was something tough and vigorous about him, that not only kept him in daily breath, but enabled him to fill a place which would else have been vacant in the apparently crowded world.
Within that circle, he claimed the same sort of privilege, and probably felt as much warmth of interest, as a clergyman does in the range of his parishioners.
In truth he had virtually pleaded guilty to the charge, by scarcely aiming at such success as other men seek, and by taking only that humble and modest part in the intercourse of life which belongs to the alleged deficiency.
Hepzibah had a regard for him, because his name was ancient in the town and had formerly been respectable.
As for his trousers, they were of tow-cloth, very short in the legs, and bagging down strangely in the rear, but yet having a suitableness to his figure which his other garment entirely lacked.
Well, I'm glad to see it.
Young people should never live idle in the world, nor old ones neither, unless when the rheumatize gets hold of them.
It has given me warning already; and in two or three years longer, I shall think of putting aside business and retiring to my farm.
That's yonder,-the great brick house, you know,-the workhouse, most folks call it; but I mean to do my work first, and go there to be idle and enjoy myself.
And I'm glad to see you beginning to do your work, Miss Hepzibah!" "Thank you, Uncle Venner," said Hepzibah, smiling; for she always felt kindly towards the simple and talkative old man.
Had he been an old woman, she might probably have repelled the freedom, which she now took in good part.
It is time for me to begin work, indeed!
Or, to speak the truth, I have just begun when I ought to be giving it up." "Oh, never say that, Miss Hepzibah!" answered the old man.
You are a young woman yet.
Why, I hardly thought myself younger than I am now, it seems so little while ago since I used to see you playing about the door of the old house, quite a small child!
Oftener, though, you used to be sitting at the threshold, and looking gravely into the street; for you had always a grave kind of way with you,-a grown-up air, when you were only the height of my knee.
It seems as if I saw you now; and your grandfather with his red cloak, and his white wig, and his cocked hat, and his cane, coming out of the house, and stepping so grandly up the street!
Those old gentlemen that grew up before the Revolution used to put on grand airs.
I met your cousin, the Judge, ten minutes ago; and, in my old tow-cloth trousers, as you see, the Judge raised his hat to me, I do believe!
At any rate, the Judge bowed and smiled!" "Yes," said Hepzibah, with something bitter stealing unawares into her tone; "my cousin Jaffrey is thought to have a very pleasant smile!" "And so he has" replied Uncle Venner.
And that's rather remarkable in a Pyncheon; for, begging your pardon, Miss Hepzibah, they never had the name of being an easy and agreeable set of folks.
There was no getting close to them.
But now, Miss Hepzibah, if an old man may be bold to ask, why don't Judge Pyncheon, with his great means, step forward, and tell his cousin to shut up her little shop at once?
It's for your credit to be doing something, but it's not for the Judge's credit to let you!" "We won't talk of this, if you please, Uncle Venner," said Hepzibah coldly.
I ought to say, however, that, if I choose to earn bread for myself, it is not Judge Pyncheon's fault.
Upon my word, Miss Hepzibah, I doubt whether I've ever been so comfortable as I mean to be at my farm, which most folks call the workhouse.
But you,-you're a young woman yet,-you never need go there!
Something still better will turn up for you.
I'm sure of it!" Hepzibah fancied that there was something peculiar in her venerable friend's look and tone; insomuch, that she gazed into his face with considerable earnestness, endeavoring to discover what secret meaning, if any, might be lurking there.
Thus, all the while Hepzibah was perfecting the scheme of her little shop, she had cherished an unacknowledged idea that some harlequin trick of fortune would intervene in her favor.
But, for reasons the most imperative, she could not yield to his request.
But either he knew nothing of her castles in the air,-as how should he?-or else her earnest scowl disturbed his recollection, as it might a more courageous man's.
Instead of pursuing any weightier topic, Uncle Venner was pleased to favor Hepzibah with some sage counsel in her shop-keeping capacity. "Give no credit!"-these were some of his golden maxims,-"Never take paper-money.
Look well to your change!
Ring the silver on the four-pound weight!
Shove back all English half-pence and base copper tokens, such as are very plenty about town!
At your leisure hours, knit children's woollen socks and mittens!
Well, well! we'll say no more, though there's word of it all over town.
I remember him, Miss Hepzibah, before he could run alone!" During the remainder of the day, poor Hepzibah acquitted herself even less creditably, as a shop-keeper, than in her earlier efforts.
It is like death, without death's quiet privilege,-its freedom from mortal care. Worst of all, when the actual duties are comprised in such petty details as now vexed the brooding soul of the old gentlewoman.
As the animosity of fate would have it, there was a great influx of custom in the course of the afternoon.
She then muffled the bell in an unfinished stocking, and put up the oaken bar across the door. During the latter process, an omnibus came to a stand-still under the branches of the elm-tree.
Hepzibah's heart was in her mouth.
A gentleman alighted; but it was only to offer his hand to a young girl whose slender figure, nowise needing such assistance, now lightly descended the steps, and made an airy little jump from the final one to the sidewalk.
She rewarded her cavalier with a smile, the cheery glow of which was seen reflected on his own face as he reentered the vehicle.
The girl then turned towards the House of the Seven Gables, to the door of which, meanwhile,-not the shop-door, but the antique portal,-the omnibus-man had carried a light trunk and a bandbox.
The girl must have mistaken the house.
She stole softly into the hall, and, herself invisible, gazed through the dusty side-lights of the portal at the young, blooming, and very cheerful face which presented itself for admittance into the gloomy old mansion.
The sordid and ugly luxuriance of gigantic weeds that grew in the angle of the house, and the heavy projection that overshadowed her, and the time-worn framework of the door,-none of these things belonged to her sphere.
But, even as a ray of sunshine, fall into what dismal place it may, instantaneously creates for itself a propriety in being there, so did it seem altogether fit that the girl should be standing at the threshold.
It was no less evidently proper that the door should swing open to admit her.
The maiden lady herself, sternly inhospitable in her first purposes, soon began to feel that the door ought to be shoved back, and the rusty key be turned in the reluctant lock. "Can it be Phoebe?" questioned she within herself.
It must be little Phoebe; for it can be nobody else,-and there is a look of her father about her, too!
But what does she want here?
And how like a country cousin, to come down upon a poor body in this way, without so much as a day's notice, or asking whether she would be welcome!
In her own circle, it was regarded as by no means improper for kinsfolk to visit one another without invitation, or preliminary and ceremonious warning.
Yet, in consideration of Miss Hepzibah's recluse way of life, a letter had actually been written and despatched, conveying information of Phoebe's projected visit.
It fronted towards the east, so that at a very seasonable hour a glow of crimson light came flooding through the window, and bathed the dingy ceiling and paper-hangings in its own hue.
Nothing, indeed, was absolutely plain to her, except that it was now early morning, and that, whatever might happen next, it was proper, first of all, to get up and say her prayers.
Being a very tall one, and of luxuriant growth, it had been propped up against the side of the house, and was literally covered with a rare and very beautiful species of white rose.
The truth was, nevertheless, that it had been planted by Alice Pyncheon,-she was Phoebe's great-great-grand-aunt,-in soil which, reckoning only its cultivation as a garden-plat, was now unctuous with nearly two hundred years of vegetable decay.
What was precisely Phoebe's process we find it impossible to say.
Besides the rosebush, she had observed several other species of flowers growing there in a wilderness of neglect, and obstructing one another's development (as is often the parallel case in human society) by their uneducated entanglement and confusion.
At the head of the stairs, however, she met Hepzibah, who, it being still early, invited her into a room which she would probably have called her boudoir, had her education embraced any such French phrase.
It was strewn about with a few old books, and a work-basket, and a dusty writing-desk; and had, on one side, a large black article of furniture, of very strange appearance, which the old gentlewoman told Phoebe was a harpsichord.
It looked more like a coffin than anything else; and, indeed,-not having been played upon, or opened, for years,-there must have been a vast deal of dead music in it, stifled for want of air.
But I really think we may suit one another much better than you suppose." "You are a nice girl,-I see it plainly," continued Hepzibah; "and it is not any question as to that point which makes me hesitate.
You know I have not been brought up a Pyncheon.
A girl learns many things in a New England village." "Ah!
Phoebe," said Hepzibah, sighing, "your knowledge would do but little for you here!
And then it is a wretched thought that you should fling away your young days in a place like this.
Those cheeks would not be so rosy after a month or two.
Look at my face!" and, indeed, the contrast was very striking,-"you see how pale I am!
Its master is coming." "Do you mean Judge Pyncheon?" asked Phoebe in surprise. "Judge Pyncheon!" answered her cousin angrily.
He will hardly cross the threshold while I live!
But, Phoebe, you shall see the face of him I speak of." She went in quest of the miniature already described, and returned with it in her hand.
It is as sweet a face as a man's can be, or ought to be.
It has something of a child's expression,-and yet not childish,-only one feels so very kindly towards him!
He ought never to suffer anything.
One would bear much for the sake of sparing him toil or sorrow.
Who is it, Cousin Hepzibah?" "Did you never hear," whispered her cousin, bending towards her, "of Clifford Pyncheon?" "Never.
I thought there were no Pyncheons left, except yourself and our cousin Jaffrey," answered Phoebe.
And yet I seem to have heard the name of Clifford Pyncheon.
And, Cousin Phoebe, since, after all that I have said, your courage does not fail you, we will not part so soon.
Hepzibah gazed forth from her habitual sluggishness, the necessary result of long solitude, as from another sphere.
She was a Davenport, of a good family.
They were almost the first teacups ever seen in the colony; and if one of them were to be broken, my heart would break with it.
Do you do other things as well?
Are you as good at your book as you are at washing teacups?" "Not quite, I am afraid," said Phoebe, laughing at the form of Hepzibah's question.
In cases of distasteful occupation, the second day is generally worse than the first.
We return to the rack with all the soreness of the preceding torture in our limbs.
At all events, Hepzibah had fully satisfied herself of the impossibility of ever becoming wonted to this peevishly obstreperous little bell.
Ring as often as it might, the sound always smote upon her nervous system rudely and suddenly.
And especially now, while, with her crested teaspoons and antique china, she was flattering herself with ideas of gentility, she felt an unspeakable disinclination to confront a customer. "Do not trouble yourself, dear cousin!" cried Phoebe, starting lightly up.
I am shop-keeper to-day." "You, child!" exclaimed Hepzibah.
What can a little country girl know of such matters?" "Oh, I have done all the shopping for the family at our village store," said Phoebe.
And I have had a table at a fancy fair, and made better sales than anybody.
These things are not to be learnt; they depend upon a knack that comes, I suppose," added she, smiling, "with one's mother's blood.
You shall see that I am as nice a little saleswoman as I am a housewife!" The old gentlewoman stole behind Phoebe, and peeped from the passageway into the shop, to note how she would manage her undertaking.
It was a case of some intricacy.
She was probably the very last person in town who still kept the time-honored spinning-wheel in constant revolution.
As for the bargain, it was wrinkled slyness and craft pitted against native truth and sagacity. "Was not that well done?" asked Phoebe, laughing, when the customer was gone. "Nicely done, indeed, child!" answered Hepzibah.
I could not have gone through with it nearly so well.
If she only could be a lady; too-but that's impossible!
Out of New England, it would be impossible to meet with a person combining so many ladylike attributes with so many others that form no necessary (if compatible) part of the character.
She shocked no canon of taste; she was admirably in keeping with herself, and never jarred against surrounding circumstances.
But there was both lustre and depth in her eyes.
Instead of discussing her claim to rank among ladies, it would be preferable to regard Phoebe as the example of feminine grace and availability combined, in a state of society, if there were any such, where ladies did not exist.
Otherwise, it is impossible to explain how the people of the neighborhood so soon became aware of the girl's presence.
There was a great run of custom, setting steadily in, from about ten o'clock until towards noon,-relaxing, somewhat, at dinner-time, but recommencing in the afternoon, and, finally, dying away a half an hour or so before the long day's sunset.
One of the stanchest patrons was little Ned Higgins, the devourer of Jim Crow and the elephant, who to-day signalized his omnivorous prowess by swallowing two dromedaries and a locomotive.
The gingerbread figures are all gone, and so are those Dutch wooden milkmaids, and most of our other playthings.
There has been constant inquiry for cheap raisins, and a great cry for whistles, and trumpets, and jew's-harps; and at least a dozen little boys have asked for molasses-candy.
And we must contrive to get a peck of russet apples, late in the season as it is.
But, dear cousin, what an enormous heap of copper!
Positively a copper mountain!" "Well done! well done! well done!" quoth Uncle Venner, who had taken occasion to shuffle in and out of the shop several times in the course of the day.
Here's a girl that will never end her days at my farm! Bless my eyes, what a brisk little soul!" "Yes, Phoebe is a nice girl!" said Hepzibah, with a scowl of austere approbation.
But, Uncle Venner, you have known the family a great many years.
Can you tell me whether there ever was a Pyncheon whom she takes after?" "I don't believe there ever was," answered the venerable man.
At any rate, it never was my luck to see her like among them, nor, for that matter, anywhere else.
She showed the indentations made by the lieutenant-governor's sword-hilt in the door-panels of the apartment where old Colonel Pyncheon, a dead host, had received his affrighted visitors with an awful frown.
The dusky terror of that frown, Hepzibah observed, was thought to be lingering ever since in the passageway.
She bade Phoebe step into one of the tall chairs, and inspect the ancient map of the Pyncheon territory at the eastward.
Thus it was for the interest of all New England that the Pyncheons should have justice done them.
The fragrance of her rich and delightful character still lingered about the place where she had lived, as a dried rose-bud scents the drawer where it has withered and perished.
This lovely Alice had met with some great and mysterious calamity, and had grown thin and white, and gradually faded out of the world.
But, even now, she was supposed to haunt the House of the Seven Gables, and, a great many times,-especially when one of the Pyncheons was to die,-she had been heard playing sadly and beautifully on the harpsichord.
It was Alice Pyncheon's harpsichord. When I was learning music, my father would never let me open it.
But, on seeing more of Mr. Holgrave, she hardly knew what to make of him.
As for the daguerreotypist, she had read a paragraph in a penny paper, the other day, accusing him of making a speech full of wild and disorganizing matter, at a meeting of his banditti-like associates.
If he does nothing worse, he may set the house on fire!" "Why, sometimes," answered Hepzibah, "I have seriously made it a question, whether I ought not to send him away.
A hop-vine, springing from last year's root, was beginning to clamber over it, but would be long in covering the roof with its green mantle.
Phoebe saw, however, that their growth must have been checked by a degree of careful labor, bestowed daily and systematically on the garden.
The remainder of the garden presented a well-selected assortment of esculent vegetables, in a praiseworthy state of advancement.
The eye of Heaven seemed to look down into it pleasantly, and with a peculiar smile, as if glad to perceive that nature, elsewhere overwhelmed, and driven out of the dusty town, had here been able to retain a breathing-place.
Bees, too,-strange to say,-had thought it worth their while to come hither, possibly from the range of hives beside some farm-house miles away.
How many aerial voyages might they have made, in quest of honey, or honey-laden, betwixt dawn and sunset!
Yet, late as it now was, there still arose a pleasant hum out of one or two of the squash-blossoms, in the depths of which these bees were plying their golden labor.
There was one other object in the garden which Nature might fairly claim as her inalienable property, in spite of whatever man could do to render it his own.
This was a fountain, set round with a rim of old mossy stones, and paved, in its bed, with what appeared to be a sort of mosaic-work of variously colored pebbles.
The play and slight agitation of the water, in its upward gush, wrought magically with these variegated pebbles, and made a continually shifting apparition of quaint figures, vanishing too suddenly to be definable.
Thence, swelling over the rim of moss-grown stones, the water stole away under the fence, through what we regret to call a gutter, rather than a channel.
Nor must we forget to mention a hen-coop of very reverend antiquity that stood in the farther corner of the garden, not a great way from the fountain.
It now contained only Chanticleer, his two wives, and a solitary chicken.
In proof of the authenticity of this legendary renown, Hepzibah could have exhibited the shell of a great egg, which an ostrich need hardly have been ashamed of.
It was evident that the race had degenerated, like many a noble race besides, in consequence of too strict a watchfulness to keep it pure.
These feathered people had existed too long in their distinct variety; a fact of which the present representatives, judging by their lugubrious deportment, seemed to be aware.
Returning, she gave a peculiar call, which they seemed to recognize.
Those venerable personages in the coop, too, seem very affably disposed.
You are lucky to be in their good graces so soon!
I prefer to think-and so would Miss Hepzibah-that they recognize the family tone.
I turn up the earth by way of pastime.
My sober occupation, so far as I have any, is with a lighter material.
In short, I make pictures out of sunshine; and, not to be too much dazzled with my own trade, I have prevailed with Miss Hepzibah to let me lodge in one of these dusky gables.
It is like a bandage over one's eyes, to come into it.
But would you like to see a specimen of my productions?" "A daguerreotype likeness, do you mean?" asked Phoebe with less reserve; for, in spite of prejudice, her own youthfulness sprang forward to meet his.
I don't much like pictures of that sort,-they are so hard and stern; besides dodging away from the eye, and trying to escape altogether.
But there certainly is truth in what you have said.
Most of my likenesses do look unamiable; but the very sufficient reason, I fancy, is, because the originals are so.
There is a wonderful insight in Heaven's broad and simple sunshine.
While we give it credit only for depicting the merest surface, it actually brings out the secret character with a truth that no painter would ever venture upon, even could he detect it.
There is, at least, no flattery in my humble line of art. Now, here is a likeness which I have taken over and over again, and still with no better result.
Yet the original wears, to common eyes, a very different expression.
It would gratify me to have your judgment on this character." He exhibited a daguerreotype miniature in a morocco case.
Phoebe merely glanced at it, and gave it back. "I know the face," she replied; "for its stern eye has been following me about all day.
It is my Puritan ancestor, who hangs yonder in the parlor.
To be sure, you have found some way of copying the portrait without its black velvet cap and gray beard, and have given him a modern coat and satin cravat, instead of his cloak and band.
I don't think him improved by your alterations." "You would have seen other differences had you looked a little longer," said Holgrave, laughing, yet apparently much struck.
The sun, as you see, tells quite another story, and will not be coaxed out of it, after half a dozen patient attempts on my part.
Here we have the man, sly, subtle, hard, imperious, and, withal, cold as ice.
Would you like to be at its mercy?
And yet, if you could only see the benign smile of the original!
It is so much the more unfortunate, as he is a public character of some eminence, and the likeness was intended to be engraved." "Well, I don't wish to see it any more," observed Phoebe, turning away her eyes.
It is certainly very like the old portrait.
But my cousin Hepzibah has another picture,-a miniature.
If the original is still in the world, I think he might defy the sun to make him look stern and hard." "You have seen that picture, then!" exclaimed the artist, with an expression of much interest.
I never did, but have a great curiosity to do so.
And you judge favorably of the face?" "There never was a sweeter one," said Phoebe.
It is almost too soft and gentle for a man's." "Is there nothing wild in the eye?" continued Holgrave, so earnestly that it embarrassed Phoebe, as did also the quiet freedom with which he presumed on their so recent acquaintance.
Is there nothing dark or sinister anywhere?
Could you not conceive the original to have been guilty of a great crime?" "It is nonsense," said Phoebe a little impatiently, "for us to talk about a picture which you have never seen.
You mistake it for some other.
Since you are a friend of my cousin Hepzibah's, you should ask her to show you the picture." "It will suit my purpose still better to see the original," replied the daguerreotypist coolly.
As to his character, we need not discuss its points; they have already been settled by a competent tribunal, or one which called itself competent.
Coming fresh from country air and occupations, you will soon feel the need of some such out-of-door employment.
My own sphere does not so much lie among flowers.
She did not altogether like him.
That last stroke of the hoe has cut off a beanstalk.
Neither drink nor bathe your face in it!" "Maule's well!" answered Phoebe.
Is that it with the rim of mossy stones?
But put it on the table in the corner of the passage.
My eyes are weak; and I can seldom bear the lamplight on them." What an instrument is the human voice!
How wonderfully responsive to every emotion of the human soul!
These matches just glimmer, and go out." But, instead of a response from Hepzibah, she seemed to hear the murmur of an unknown voice.
It was strangely indistinct, however, and less like articulate words than an unshaped sound, such as would be the utterance of feeling and sympathy, rather than of the intellect.
So vague was it, that its impression or echo in Phoebe's mind was that of unreality.
There was a tremor in it, too, that-as all strong feeling is electric-partly communicated itself to Phoebe.
The girl sat silently for a moment.
But soon, her senses being very acute, she became conscious of an irregular respiration in an obscure corner of the room.
Pray go to bed; for I am sure you must need rest.
I will sit in the parlor awhile, and collect my thoughts.
It has been my custom for more years, child, than you have lived!
While thus dismissing her, the maiden lady stept forward, kissed Phoebe, and pressed her to her heart, which beat against the girl's bosom with a strong, high, and tumultuous swell.
How came there to be so much love in this desolate old heart, that it could afford to well over thus abundantly? "Goodnight, cousin," said Phoebe, strangely affected by Hepzibah's manner.
If you begin to love me, I am glad!" She retired to her chamber, but did not soon fall asleep, nor then very profoundly.
At some uncertain period in the depths of night, and, as it were, through the thin veil of a dream, she was conscious of a footstep mounting the stairs heavily, but not with force and decision.
She stood by a window, holding a book in close contiguity to her nose, as if with the hope of gaining an olfactory acquaintance with its contents, since her imperfect vision made it not very easy to read them.
Phoebe ran to see, but returned without the expected treasure in her hand.
At that instant, however, the blast of a fish-dealer's conch was heard, announcing his approach along the street.
Hepzibah gladly assenting, the kitchen was soon the scene of savory preparation.
Her zeal over the fire, therefore, was quite an heroic test of sentiment.
The vapor of the broiled fish arose like incense from the shrine of a barbarian idol, while the fragrance of the Mocha might have gratified the nostrils of a tutelary Lar, or whatever power has scope over a modern breakfast-table.
The butter must not be forgotten,-butter which Phoebe herself had churned, in her own rural home, and brought it to her cousin as a propitiatory gift,-smelling of clover-blossoms, and diffusing the charm of pastoral scenery through the dark-panelled parlor.
The early sunshine-as fresh as that which peeped into Eve's bower while she and Adam sat at breakfast there-came twinkling through the branches of the pear-tree, and fell quite across the table.
There were chairs and plates for three.
Its manifestations were so various, and agreed so little with one another, that the girl knew not what to make of it.
Sometimes it seemed an ecstasy of delight and happiness.
Bear with me; for I love you, Phoebe, though I speak so roughly.
Think nothing of it, dearest child!
By and by, I shall be kind, and only kind!" "My dearest cousin, cannot you tell me what has happened?" asked Phoebe, with a sunny and tearful sympathy.
What is it that moves you so?" "Hush! hush!
He is coming!" whispered Hepzibah, hastily wiping her eyes.
Let him see you first, Phoebe; for you are young and rosy, and cannot help letting a smile break out whether or no. He always liked bright faces!
And mine is old now, and the tears are hardly dry on it. He never could abide tears.
There; draw the curtain a little, so that the shadow may fall across his side of the table!
But let there be a good deal of sunshine, too; for he never was fond of gloom, as some people are.
He has had but little sunshine in his life,-poor Clifford,-and, oh, what a black shadow.
Phoebe recognized it as the same which had passed upward, as through her dream, in the night-time.
The approaching guest, whoever it might be, appeared to pause at the head of the staircase; he paused twice or thrice in the descent; he paused again at the foot.
Finally, he made a long pause at the threshold of the parlor.
He took hold of the knob of the door; then loosened his grasp without opening it.
You really frighten me! Is something awful going to happen?" "Hush!" whispered Hepzibah.
Be cheerful! whatever may happen, be nothing but cheerful!" The final pause at the threshold proved so long, that Hepzibah, unable to endure the suspense, rushed forward, threw open the door, and led in the stranger by the hand.
At the first glance, Phoebe saw an elderly personage, in an old-fashioned dressing-gown of faded damask, and wearing his gray or almost white hair of an unusual length.
It quite overshadowed his forehead, except when he thrust it back, and stared vaguely about the room.
Yet there were no tokens that his physical strength might not have sufficed for a free and determined gait.
It was the spirit of the man that could not walk. The expression of his countenance-while, notwithstanding it had the light of reason in it-seemed to waver, and glimmer, and nearly to die away, and feebly to recover itself again.
He saw Phoebe, however, and caught an illumination from her youthful and pleasant aspect, which, indeed, threw a cheerfulness about the parlor, like the circle of reflected brilliancy around the glass vase of flowers that was standing in the sunshine.
He made a salutation, or, to speak nearer the truth, an ill-defined, abortive attempt at curtsy.
Imperfect as it was, however, it conveyed an idea, or, at least, gave a hint, of indescribable grace, such as no practised art of external manners could have attained.
She has come from the country to stay with us awhile; for our old house has grown to be very lonely now." "Phoebe-Phoebe Pyncheon?-Phoebe?" repeated the guest, with a strange, sluggish, ill-defined utterance.
She is very welcome!" "Come, dear Clifford, take this chair," said Hepzibah, leading him to his place.
Pray, Phoebe, lower the curtain a very little more.
Now let us begin breakfast." The guest seated himself in the place assigned him, and looked strangely around.
He was evidently trying to grapple with the present scene, and bring it home to his mind with a more satisfactory distinctness.
He desired to be certain, at least, that he was here, in the low-studded, cross-beamed, oaken-panelled parlor, and not in some other spot, which had stereotyped itself into his senses.
But the effort was too great to be sustained with more than a fragmentary success.
She saw that the person before her must have been the original of the beautiful miniature in her cousin Hepzibah's possession.
Indeed, with a feminine eye for costume, she had at once identified the damask dressing-gown, which enveloped him, as the same in figure, material, and fashion, with that so elaborately represented in the picture.
This old, faded garment, with all its pristine brilliancy extinct, seemed, in some indescribable way, to translate the wearer's untold misfortune, and make it perceptible to the beholder's eye.
It could the more adequately be known that the soul of the man must have suffered some miserable wrong, from its earthly experience.
As his eyes met hers, he seemed bewildered and disquieted. "Is this you, Hepzibah?" he murmured sadly; then, more apart, and perhaps unconscious that he was overheard, "How changed! how changed! And is she angry with me?
Why does she bend her brow so?" Poor Hepzibah!
It was that wretched scowl which time and her near-sightedness, and the fret of inward discomfort, had rendered so habitual that any vehemence of mood invariably evoked it.
You are at home!" The guest responded to her tone by a smile, which did not half light up his face.
Feeble as it was, however, and gone in a moment, it had a charm of wonderful beauty.
It was followed by a coarser expression; or one that had the effect of coarseness on the fine mould and outline of his countenance, because there was nothing intellectual to temper it. It was a look of appetite.
He ate food with what might almost be termed voracity; and seemed to forget himself, Hepzibah, the young girl, and everything else around him, in the sensual enjoyment which the bountifully spread table afforded.
In his natural system, though high-wrought and delicately refined, a sensibility to the delights of the palate was probably inherent.
It would have been kept in check, however, and even converted into an accomplishment, and one of the thousand modes of intellectual culture, had his more ethereal characteristics retained their vigor.
But as it existed now, the effect was painful and made Phoebe droop her eyes. In a little while the guest became sensible of the fragrance of the yet untasted coffee.
This is what I need!
Give me more!" Under this delicate and powerful influence he sat more erect, and looked out from his eyes with a glance that took note of what it rested on.
But a certain fine temper of being was now not brought out in full relief, but changeably and imperfectly betrayed, of which it was the function to deal with all beautiful and enjoyable things.
In a character where it should exist as the chief attribute, it would bestow on its possessor an exquisite taste, and an enviable susceptibility of happiness.
Beauty would be his life; his aspirations would all tend toward it; and, allowing his frame and physical organs to be in consonance, his own developments would likewise be beautiful.
To these heroic tempers, such martyrdom is the richest meed in the world's gift.
To the individual before us, it could only be a grief, intense in due proportion with the severity of the infliction.
It was perceptible, even there, in the dark old parlor, in the inevitable polarity with which his eyes were attracted towards the quivering play of sunbeams through the shadowy foliage.
It was seen in his appreciating notice of the vase of flowers, the scent of which he inhaled with a zest almost peculiar to a physical organization so refined that spiritual ingredients are moulded in with it.
It was betrayed in the unconscious smile with which he regarded Phoebe, whose fresh and maidenly figure was both sunshine and flowers,-their essence, in a prettier and more agreeable mode of manifestation.
Not less evident was this love and necessity for the Beautiful, in the instinctive caution with which, even so soon, his eyes turned away from his hostess, and wandered to any quarter rather than come back.
It was Hepzibah's misfortune,-not Clifford's fault.
How could he,-so yellow as she was, so wrinkled, so sad of mien, with that odd uncouthness of a turban on her head, and that most perverse of scowls contorting her brow,-how could he love to gaze at her?
But, did he owe her no affection for so much as she had silently given?
A nature like Clifford's can contract no debts of that kind.
Poor Hepzibah knew this truth, or, at least, acted on the instinct of it.
They never possessed a charm; and if they had, the canker of her grief for him would long since have destroyed it. The guest leaned back in his chair.
Mingled in his countenance with a dreamy delight, there was a troubled look of effort and unrest.
How balmy the atmosphere through that open window!
How beautiful that play of sunshine!
Those flowers, how very fragrant!
That young girl's face, how cheerful, how blooming!-a flower with the dew on it, and sunbeams in the dew-drops! Ah! this must be all a dream!
There will be but five or six on the bush this season.
This is the most perfect of them all; not a speck of blight or mildew in it. And how sweet it is!-sweet like no other rose!
One can never forget that scent!" "Ah!-let me see!-let me hold it!" cried the guest, eagerly seizing the flower, which, by the spell peculiar to remembered odors, brought innumerable associations along with the fragrance that it exhaled. "Thank you!
This has done me good.
I remember how I used to prize this flower,-long ago, I suppose, very long ago!-or was it only yesterday? It makes me feel young again!
Either this remembrance is singularly distinct, or this consciousness strangely dim!
But how kind of the fair young girl!
Yes, yes!-that is precisely your taste!
I have told you, a thousand times, that it was the evil genius of the house!-my evil genius particularly!
It must not stare me in the face!" "Yes, dear Clifford, the picture shall be covered," said Hepzibah soothingly.
Hepzibah will say we have not the means.
He was probably accustomed to a sad monotony of life, not so much flowing in a stream, however sluggish, as stagnating in a pool around his feet.
I have never heard such a hateful clamor!
The secret was, that an individual of his temper can always be pricked more acutely through his sense of the beautiful and harmonious than through his heart.
But, do you know, Clifford, I have something to tell you?
For you must know, dearest Clifford, that we are very poor.
Alone, I might have been content to starve.
But you were to be given back to me!
Do you think, then, dear Clifford," added she, with a wretched smile, "that I have brought an irretrievable disgrace on the old house, by opening a little shop in the front gable?
Our great-great-grandfather did the same, when there was far less need!
Are you ashamed of me?" "Shame!
Do you speak these words to me, Hepzibah?" said Clifford,-not angrily, however; for when a man's spirit has been thoroughly crushed, he may be peevish at small offences, but never resentful of great ones.
So he spoke with only a grieved emotion.
It was not kind to say so, Hepzibah!
What shame can befall me now?" And then the unnerved man-he that had been born for enjoyment, but had met a doom so very wretched-burst into a woman's passion of tears.
It was but of brief continuance, however; soon leaving him in a quiescent, and, to judge by his countenance, not an uncomfortable state.
Her heart melted away in tears; her profoundest spirit sent forth a moaning voice, low, gentle, but inexpressibly sad.
In this depth of grief and pity she felt that there was no irreverence in gazing at his altered, aged, faded, ruined face.
Folks say he has got home." "My cousin Hepzibah's brother?" exclaimed Phoebe, surprised at this sudden explanation of the relationship between Hepzibah and her guest. "Her brother!
Then as Phoebe continued to gaze at him, without answering his mother's message, he took his departure. As the child went down the steps, a gentleman ascended them, and made his entrance into the shop.
A susceptible observer, at any rate, might have regarded it as affording very little evidence of the general benignity of soul whereof it purported to be the outward reflection.
On perceiving a young rose-bud of a girl, instead of the gaunt presence of the old maid, a look of surprise was manifest.
Is it possible that you are Phoebe Pyncheon, only child of my dear cousin and classmate, Arthur?
Ah, I see your father now, about your mouth!
Yes, yes! we must be better acquainted!
I am your kinsman, my dear.
It was a modern parallel to the case of Ixion embracing a cloud, and was so much the more ridiculous as the Judge prided himself on eschewing all airy matter, and never mistaking a shadow for a substance.
The man, the sex, somehow or other, was entirely too prominent in the Judge's demonstrations of that sort.
Phoebe's eyes sank, and, without knowing why, she felt herself blushing deeply under his look.
Yet she had been kissed before, and without any particular squeamishness, by perhaps half a dozen different cousins, younger as well as older than this dark-browned, grisly-bearded, white-neck-clothed, and unctuously-benevolent Judge!
Then, why not by him? On raising her eyes, Phoebe was startled by the change in Judge Pyncheon's face.
Was it, therefore, no momentary mood, but, however skilfully concealed, the settled temper of his life?
A deeper philosopher than Phoebe might have found something very terrible in this idea.
I like it much, my little cousin!
You are a good child, and know how to take care of yourself.
In these days of off-hand equipment, the matter was easily enough arranged.
Possibly, also, could the two personages have stood together before her eye, many points of difference would have been perceptible, and perhaps only a general resemblance.
The long lapse of intervening years, in a climate so unlike that which had fostered the ancestral Englishman, must inevitably have wrought important changes in the physical system of his descendant.
The Judge's volume of muscle could hardly be the same as the Colonel's; there was undoubtedly less beef in him.
Then the Judge's face had lost the ruddy English hue that showed its warmth through all the duskiness of the Colonel's weather-beaten cheek, and had taken a sallow shade, the established complexion of his countrymen.
If we mistake not, moreover, a certain quality of nervousness had become more or less manifest, even in so solid a specimen of Puritan descent as the gentleman now under discussion.
On his tombstone, too, the record is highly eulogistic; nor does history, so far as he holds a place upon its page, assail the consistency and uprightness of his character.
We must not stain our page with any contemporary scandal, to a similar purport, that may have been whispered against the Judge.
The Puritan, again, an autocrat in his own household, had worn out three wives, and, merely by the remorseless weight and hardness of his character in the conjugal relation, had sent them, one after another, broken-hearted, to their graves.
Here the parallel, in some sort, fails.
The Judge had wedded but a single wife, and lost her in the third or fourth year of their marriage.
Yet there was a circumstance, very trifling in itself, which impressed her with an odd degree of horror.
The latter scandal-as became a person of sense, and, more especially, a member of the Pyncheon family-Phoebe had set down for the absurdity which it unquestionably was.
But ancient superstitions, after being steeped in human hearts and embodied in human breath, and passing from lip to ear in manifold repetition, through a series of generations, become imbued with an effect of homely truth.
The smoke of the domestic hearth has scented them through and through.
By long transmission among household facts, they grow to look like them, and have such a familiar way of making themselves at home that their influence is usually greater than we suspect.
Are you afraid of anything?" "Oh, nothing, sir-nothing in the world!" answered Phoebe, with a little laugh of vexation at herself.
But perhaps you wish to speak with my cousin Hepzibah.
Shall I call her?" "Stay a moment, if you please," said the Judge, again beaming sunshine out of his face.
You seem to be a little nervous this morning.
The town air, Cousin Phoebe, does not agree with your good, wholesome country habits.
Or has anything happened to disturb you?-anything remarkable in Cousin Hepzibah's family?- An arrival, eh?
I thought so! No wonder you are out of sorts, my little cousin.
To be an inmate with such a guest may well startle an innocent young girl!" "You quite puzzle me, sir," replied Phoebe, gazing inquiringly at the Judge.
He startle me!-Oh, no indeed!" "I rejoice to hear so favorable and so ingenuous an account of my cousin Clifford," said the benevolent Judge.
Many years ago, when we were boys and young men together, I had a great affection for him, and still feel a tender interest in all his concerns.
You say, Cousin Phoebe, he appears to be weak minded.
Well, it is all right; and your mother has shown a very proper regard for the good name of the family with which she connected herself.
Believe the best you can of this unfortunate person, and hope the best!
It is a rule which Christians should always follow, in their judgments of one another; and especially is it right and wise among near relatives, whose characters have necessarily a degree of mutual dependence.
But is Clifford in the parlor?
I will just step in and see." "Perhaps, sir, I had better call my cousin Hepzibah," said Phoebe; hardly knowing, however, whether she ought to obstruct the entrance of so affectionate a kinsman into the private regions of the house.
Her brother seemed to be just falling asleep after breakfast; and I am sure she would not like him to be disturbed.
I am at home here, Phoebe, you must recollect, and you are the stranger.
I will just step in, therefore, and see for myself how Clifford is, and assure him and Hepzibah of my kindly feelings and best wishes.
It is right, at this juncture, that they should both hear from my own lips how much I desire to serve them. Ha! here is Hepzibah herself!" Such was the case.
The vibrations of the Judge's voice had reached the old gentlewoman in the parlor, where she sat, with face averted, waiting on her brother's slumber.
She now issued forth, as would appear, to defend the entrance, looking, we must needs say, amazingly like the dragon which, in fairy tales, is wont to be the guardian over an enchanted beauty.
She made a repelling gesture with her hand, and stood a perfect picture of prohibition, at full length, in the dark frame of the doorway.
It may have been his purpose, indeed, to melt poor Hepzibah on the spot, as if she were a figure of yellow wax. "Hepzibah, my beloved cousin, I am rejoiced!" exclaimed the Judge most emphatically.
Now, at length, you have something to live for.
Yes, and all of us, let me say, your friends and kindred, have more to live for than we had yesterday.
I have lost no time in hastening to offer any assistance in my power towards making Clifford comfortable.
He belongs to us all.
I know how much he requires,-how much he used to require,-with his delicate taste, and his love of the beautiful. Anything in my house,-pictures, books, wine, luxuries of the table,-he may command them all!
It would afford me most heartfelt gratification to see him!
Shall I step in, this moment?" "No," replied Hepzibah, her voice quivering too painfully to allow of many words.
He cannot see visitors!" "A visitor, my dear cousin!-do you call me so?" cried the Judge, whose sensibility, it seems, was hurt by the coldness of the phrase.
Nay, then, let me be Clifford's host, and your own likewise.
Come at once to my house.
The country air, and all the conveniences,-I may say luxuries,-that I have gathered about me, will do wonders for him.
And you and I, dear Hepzibah, will consult together, and watch together, and labor together, to make our dear Clifford happy.
I stand here with an open heart, willing and anxious to receive yourself and Clifford into it.
Do not refuse my good offices,-my earnest propositions for your welfare!
They are such, in all respects, as it behooves your nearest kinsman to make.
Nay, I suspected as much!
Take care, Hepzibah, take care!
Clifford is on the brink of as black a ruin as ever befell him yet!
But why do I talk with you, woman as you are?
Make way!-I must see Clifford!" Hepzibah spread out her gaunt figure across the door, and seemed really to increase in bulk; looking the more terrible, also, because there was so much terror and agitation in her heart.
Entreat him not to come in!
Oh, let him have mercy on me!
Mercy! mercy!" For the instant, it appeared doubtful whether it were not the Judge's resolute purpose to set Hepzibah aside, and step across the threshold into the parlor, whence issued that broken and miserable murmur of entreaty.
To know Judge Pyncheon was to see him at that moment.
After such a revelation, let him smile with what sultriness he would, he could much sooner turn grapes purple, or pumpkins yellow, than melt the iron-branded impression out of the beholder's memory.
He is apparently conscious of having erred, in too energetically pressing his deeds of loving-kindness on persons unable to appreciate them.
He will await their better mood, and hold himself as ready to assist them then as at this moment.
But I forgive it, and will study to make you think better of me.
Of course, our poor Clifford being in so unhappy a state of mind, I cannot think of urging an interview at present.
But I shall watch over his welfare as if he were my own beloved brother; nor do I at all despair, my dear cousin, of constraining both him and you to acknowledge your injustice.
Yet his offers were surely kind!" "Do not speak of them,-he has a heart of iron!" rejoined Hepzibah.
Go, now, and talk to Clifford!
Amuse and keep him quiet!
A doubt of this nature has a most disturbing influence, and, if shown to be a fact, comes with fearful and startling effect on minds of the trim, orderly, and limit-loving class, in which we find our little country-girl.
Dispositions more boldly speculative may derive a stern enjoyment from the discovery, since there must be evil in the world, that a high man is as likely to grasp his share of it as a low one.
But Phoebe, in order to keep the universe in its old place, was fain to smother, in some degree, her own intuitions as to Judge Pyncheon's character.
Through dreary years Hepzibah had looked forward-for the most part despairingly, never with any confidence of hope, but always with the feeling that it was her brightest possibility-to the very position in which she now found herself.
She had responded to the call.
Her little efforts to amuse him!
How pitiful, yet magnanimous, they were! Remembering his early love of poetry and fiction, she unlocked a bookcase, and took down several books that had been excellent reading in their day.
There was a volume of Pope, with the Rape of the Lock in it, and another of the Tatler, and an odd one of Dryden's Miscellanies, all with tarnished gilding on their covers, and thoughts of tarnished brilliancy inside.
They had no success with Clifford.
Hepzibah then took up Rasselas, and began to read of the Happy Valley, with a vague idea that some secret of a contented life had there been elaborated, which might at least serve Clifford and herself for this one day.
His sister's voice, too, naturally harsh, had, in the course of her sorrowful lifetime, contracted a kind of croak, which, when it once gets into the human throat, is as ineradicable as sin.
In both sexes, occasionally, this lifelong croak, accompanying each word of joy or sorrow, is one of the symptoms of a settled melancholy; and wherever it occurs, the whole history of misfortune is conveyed in its slightest accent.
At one time, her eyes chanced to rest on Alice Pyncheon's harpsichord.
All three would have been miserable together.
There was no help for it.
It would be the latest impulse to die within him.
She was a grief to Clifford, and she knew it.
In this extremity, the antiquated virgin turned to Phoebe.
No grovelling jealousy was in her heart.
She therefore turned to Phoebe, and resigned the task into the young girl's hands.
There was no morbidness in Phoebe; if there had been, the old Pyncheon House was the very locality to ripen it into incurable disease.
As every article in the great trunk was the sweeter for the rose-scent, so did all the thoughts and emotions of Hepzibah and Clifford, sombre as they might seem, acquire a subtle attribute of happiness from Phoebe's intermixture with them.
This facile adaptation was at once the symptom of perfect health and its best preservative. A nature like Phoebe's has invariably its due influence, but is seldom regarded with due honor.
Not that he could ever be said to converse with her, or often manifest, in any other very definite mode, his sense of a charm in her society.
Phoebe's presence, and the contiguity of her fresh life to his blighted one, was usually all that he required.
Indeed, such was the native gush and play of her spirit, that she was seldom perfectly quiet and undemonstrative, any more than a fountain ever ceases to dimple and warble with its flow.
He would sit quietly, with a gentle pleasure gleaming over his face, brighter now, and now a little dimmer, as the song happened to float near him, or was more remotely heard.
It pleased him best, however, when she sat on a low footstool at his knee. It is perhaps remarkable, considering her temperament, that Phoebe oftener chose a strain of pathos than of gayety.
But the young and happy are not ill pleased to temper their life with a transparent shadow.
Broad mirth, in the sacred presence of dark misfortune, would have jarred harshly and irreverently with the solemn symphony that rolled its undertone through Hepzibah's and her brother's life.
He grew youthful while she sat by him.
It did more than to illuminate; it transfigured him with an expression that could only be interpreted as the glow of an exquisite and happy spirit.
There seemed no necessity for his having drawn breath at all; the world never wanted him; but, as he had breathed, it ought always to have been the balmiest of summer air.
The fire upon the hearth can gladden a whole semicircle of faces round about it, but need not know the individuality of one among them all.
Indeed, there was something too fine and delicate in Clifford's traits to be perfectly appreciated by one whose sphere lay so much in the Actual as Phoebe's did.
For Clifford, however, the reality, and simplicity, and thorough homeliness of the girl's nature were as powerful a charm as any that she possessed.
Beauty, it is true, and beauty almost perfect in its own style, was indispensable.
But nothing more beautiful-nothing prettier, at least-was ever made than Phoebe.
They shiver in their loneliness, be it on a mountain-top or in a dungeon.
Now, Phoebe's presence made a home about her,-that very sphere which the outcast, the prisoner, the potentate,-the wretch beneath mankind, the wretch aside from it, or the wretch above it,-instinctively pines after,-a home!
The world was no longer a delusion. By looking a little further in this direction, we might suggest an explanation of an often-suggested mystery.
Why are poets so apt to choose their mates, not for any similarity of poetic endowment, but for qualities which might make the happiness of the rudest handicraftsman as well as that of the ideal craftsman of the spirit?
On Clifford's part it was the feeling of a man naturally endowed with the liveliest sensibility to feminine influence, but who had never quaffed the cup of passionate love, and knew that it was now too late.
He knew it, with the instinctive delicacy that had survived his intellectual decay.
Thus, his sentiment for Phoebe, without being paternal, was not less chaste than if she had been his daughter.
He was a man, it is true, and recognized her as a woman.
She was his only representative of womankind.
He took unfailing note of every charm that appertained to her sex, and saw the ripeness of her lips, and the virginal development of her bosom.
No adequate expression of the beauty and profound pathos with which it impresses us is attainable.
With his native susceptibility of happy influences, he inhales the slight, ethereal rapture into his soul, and expires! And how did Phoebe regard Clifford?
The girl's was not one of those natures which are most attracted by what is strange and exceptional in human character.
The path which would best have suited her was the well-worn track of ordinary life; the companions in whom she would most have delighted were such as one encounters at every turn.
The mystery which enveloped Clifford, so far as it affected her at all, was an annoyance, rather than the piquant charm which many women might have found in it.
With a ready tact, the result of ever-active and wholesome sensibility, she discerned what was good for him, and did it.
Whatever was morbid in his mind and experience she ignored; and thereby kept their intercourse healthy, by the incautious, but, as it were, heaven-directed freedom of her whole conduct.
But Phoebe afforded her poor patient a supply of purer air.
Such a flower was Phoebe in her relation with Clifford, and such the delight that he inhaled from her. Yet, it must be said, her petals sometimes drooped a little, in consequence of the heavy atmosphere about her.
She grew more thoughtful than heretofore.
Looking aside at Clifford's face, and seeing the dim, unsatisfactory elegance and the intellect almost quenched, she would try to inquire what had been his life.
Had this veil been over him from his birth?-this veil, under which far more of his spirit was hidden than revealed, and through which he so imperfectly discerned the actual world,-or was its gray texture woven of some dark calamity?
Phoebe loved no riddles, and would have been glad to escape the perplexity of this one.
Small thanks were due to the books, however, if the girl's readings were in any degree more successful than her elderly cousin's.
Phoebe's voice had always a pretty music in it, and could either enliven Clifford by its sparkle and gayety of tone, or soothe him by a continued flow of pebbly and brook-like cadences.
But the fictions-in which the country-girl, unused to works of that nature, often became deeply absorbed-interested her strange auditor very little, or not at all.
When Phoebe broke into a peal of merry laughter at what she read, he would now and then laugh for sympathy, but oftener respond with a troubled, questioning look.
If a tear-a maiden's sunshiny tear over imaginary woe-dropped upon some melancholy page, Clifford either took it as a token of actual calamity, or else grew peevish, and angrily motioned her to close the volume.
Is not the world sad enough, in genuine earnest, without making a pastime of mock sorrows? With poetry it was rather better.
He delighted in the swell and subsidence of the rhythm, and the happily recurring rhyme.
Nor was Clifford incapable of feeling the sentiment of poetry,-not, perhaps, where it was highest or deepest, but where it was most flitting and ethereal.
The life of the garden offered topics enough for such discourse as suited Clifford best.
He never failed to inquire what flowers had bloomed since yesterday.
This affection and sympathy for flowers is almost exclusively a woman's trait.
Men, if endowed with it by nature, soon lose, forget, and learn to despise it, in their contact with coarser things than flowers.
She had seen or heard a bee there, on the first day of her acquaintance with the place.
And often,-almost continually, indeed,-since then, the bees kept coming thither, Heaven knows why, or by what pertinacious desire, for far-fetched sweets, when, no doubt, there were broad clover-fields, and all kinds of garden growth, much nearer home than this.
After all, there need be no question why the bees came to that one green nook in the dusty town. God sent them thither to gladden our poor Clifford.
They brought the rich summer with them, in requital of a little honey. When the bean-vines began to flower on the poles, there was one particular variety which bore a vivid scarlet blossom.
And, ever since the unfolding of the first bud, a multitude of humming-birds had been attracted thither.
At times, it seemed as if for every one of the hundred blossoms there was one of these tiniest fowls of the air,-a thumb's bigness of burnished plumage, hovering and vibrating about the bean-poles.
It was with indescribable interest, and even more than childish delight, that Clifford watched the humming-birds.
She said that it had always been thus with Clifford when the humming-birds came,-always, from his babyhood,-and that his delight in them had been one of the earliest tokens by which he showed his love for beautiful things.
Indeed, all the enjoyments of this period were provocative of tears.
Coming so late as it did, it was a kind of Indian summer, with a mist in its balmiest sunshine, and decay and death in its gaudiest delight.
The more Clifford seemed to taste the happiness of a child, the sadder was the difference to be recognized.
With a mysterious and terrible Past, which had annihilated his memory, and a blank Future before him, he had only this visionary and impalpable Now, which, if you once look closely at it, is nothing.
He himself, as was perceptible by many symptoms, lay darkly behind his pleasure, and knew it to be a baby-play, which he was to toy and trifle with, instead of thoroughly believing.
All his life long, he had been learning how to be wretched, as one learns a foreign tongue; and now, with the lesson thoroughly by heart, he could with difficulty comprehend his little airy happiness.
Frequently there was a dim shadow of doubt in his eyes. "Take my hand, Phoebe," he would say, "and pinch it hard with your little fingers!
Give me a rose, that I may press its thorns, and prove myself awake by the sharp touch of pain!
All hens are well worth studying for the piquancy and rich variety of their manners; but by no possibility can there have been other fowls of such odd appearance and deportment as these ancestral ones.
Its mother evidently regarded it as the one chicken of the world, and as necessary, in fact, to the world's continuance, or, at any rate, to the equilibrium of the present system of affairs, whether in church or state.
No lower estimate could have vindicated the indefatigable zeal with which she scratched, and her unscrupulousness in digging up the choicest flower or vegetable, for the sake of the fat earthworm at its root.
While she curiously examined its hereditary marks,-the peculiar speckle of its plumage, the funny tuft on its head, and a knob on each of its legs,-the little biped, as she insisted, kept giving her a sagacious wink.
Shortly after, there was a prodigious cackling and gratulation of Chanticleer and all his family, including the wizened chicken, who appeared to understand the matter quite as well as did his sire, his mother, or his aunt.
That afternoon Phoebe found a diminutive egg,-not in the regular nest, it was far too precious to be trusted there,-but cunningly hidden under the currant-bushes, on some dry stalks of last year's grass.
Hepzibah, on learning the fact, took possession of the egg and appropriated it to Clifford's breakfast, on account of a certain delicacy of flavor, for which, as she affirmed, these eggs had always been famous.
Thus unscrupulously did the old gentlewoman sacrifice the continuance, perhaps, of an ancient feathered race, with no better end than to supply her brother with a dainty that hardly filled the bowl of a tea-spoon!
But we deem it pardonable to record these mean incidents and poor delights, because they proved so greatly to Clifford's benefit.
They had the earth-smell in them, and contributed to give him health and substance.
Some of his occupations wrought less desirably upon him.
He had a singular propensity, for example, to hang over Maule's well, and look at the constantly shifting phantasmagoria of figures produced by the agitation of the water over the mosaic-work of colored pebbles at the bottom.
But sometimes he would suddenly cry out, "The dark face gazes at me!" and be miserable the whole day afterwards.
Phoebe, when she hung over the fountain by Clifford's side, could see nothing of all this,-neither the beauty nor the ugliness,-but only the colored pebbles, looking as if the gush of the waters shook and disarranged them.
And the dark face, that so troubled Clifford, was no more than the shadow thrown from a branch of one of the damson-trees, and breaking the inner light of Maule's well.
In addition to Clifford, Hepzibah, and Phoebe, two guests made up the company.
One was the artist Holgrave, who, in spite of his consociation with reformers, and his other queer and questionable traits, continued to hold an elevated place in Hepzibah's regard.
Clifford, on several occasions, had seemed to enjoy the old man's intercourse, for the sake of his mellow, cheerful vein, which was like the sweet flavor of a frost-bitten apple, such as one picks up under the tree in December.
Hepzibah-stately as ever at heart, and yielding not an inch of her old gentility, but resting upon it so much the more, as justifying a princess-like condescension-exhibited a not ungraceful hospitality.
She talked kindly to the vagrant artist, and took sage counsel-lady as she was-with the wood-sawyer, the messenger of everybody's petty errands, the patched philosopher.
They are very much like what I expect to have after I retire to my farm!" "Uncle Venner" observed Clifford in a drowsy, inward tone, "is always talking about his farm.
It does seem to me that men make a wonderful mistake in trying to heap up property upon property.
If I had done so, I should feel as if Providence was not bound to take care of me; and, at all events, the city wouldn't be!
These, with water,-but not from the fountain of ill omen, close at hand,-constituted all the entertainment.
Phoebe said to herself,-"How pleasant he can be!
But he gave out his own thoughts, likewise, with an airy and fanciful glow; so that they glistened, as it were, through the arbor, and made their escape among the interstices of the foliage.
Many, many years have I waited for it! It is late!
I want my happiness!" Alas, poor Clifford!
You are old, and worn with troubles that ought never to have befallen you.
You are partly crazy and partly imbecile; a ruin, a failure, as almost everybody is,-though some in less degree, or less perceptibly, than their fellows.
If not the thing itself, it is marvellously like it, and the more so for that ethereal and intangible quality which causes it all to vanish at too close an introspection. Take it, therefore, while you may.
For this purpose, they used to mount the staircase together, to the second story of the house, where, at the termination of a wide entry, there was an arched window, of uncommonly large dimensions, shaded by a pair of curtains.
It opened above the porch, where there had formerly been a balcony, the balustrade of which had long since gone to decay, and been removed.
But he and Phoebe made a sight as well worth seeing as any that the city could exhibit.
Things familiar to the youngest child that had begun its outlook at existence seemed strange to him.
As regarded novelties (among which cabs and omnibuses were to be reckoned), his mind appeared to have lost its proper gripe and retentiveness.
With the water-cart Clifford could never grow familiar; it always affected him with just the same surprise as at first.
His mind took an apparently sharp impression from it, but lost the recollection of this perambulatory shower, before its next reappearance, as completely as did the street itself, along which the heat so quickly strewed white dust again.
It was the same with the railroad.
Clifford could hear the obstreperous howl of the steam-devil, and, by leaning a little way from the arched window, could catch a glimpse of the trains of cars, flashing a brief transit across the extremity of the street.
It can merely be a suspended animation; for, were the power actually to perish, there would be little use of immortality.
We are less than ghosts, for the time being, whenever this calamity befalls us. Clifford was indeed the most inveterate of conservatives.
All the antique fashions of the street were dear to him; even such as were characterized by a rudeness that would naturally have annoyed his fastidious senses.
He loved the old rumbling and jolting carts, the former track of which he still found in his long-buried remembrance, as the observer of to-day finds the wheel-tracks of ancient vehicles in Herculaneum.
The baker's cart, with the harsh music of its bells, had a pleasant effect on Clifford, because, as few things else did, it jingled the very dissonance of yore.
One afternoon a scissor-grinder chanced to set his wheel a-going under the Pyncheon Elm, and just in front of the arched window.
It was an ugly, little, venomous serpent of a noise, as ever did petty violence to human ears.
But Clifford listened with rapturous delight.
Nevertheless, its charm lay chiefly in the past; for the scissor-grinder's wheel had hissed in his childish ears. He sometimes made doleful complaint that there were no stage-coaches nowadays.
This was observable when one of those Italian boys (who are rather a modern feature of our streets) came along with his barrel-organ, and stopped under the wide and cool shadows of the elm.
With his quick professional eye he took note of the two faces watching him from the arched window, and, opening his instrument, began to scatter its melodies abroad.
The Italian turned a crank; and, behold! every one of these small individuals started into the most curious vivacity.
For the most remarkable aspect of the affair was, that, at the cessation of the music, everybody was petrified at once, from the most extravagant life into a dead torpor.
All were precisely in the same condition as before they made themselves so ridiculous by their haste to toil, to enjoy, to accumulate gold, and to become wise.
Saddest of all, moreover, the lover was none the happier for the maiden's granted kiss!
But, rather than swallow this last too acrid ingredient, we reject the whole moral of the show. The monkey, meanwhile, with a thick tail curling out into preposterous prolixity from beneath his tartans, took his station at the Italian's feet.
He turned a wrinkled and abominable little visage to every passer-by, and to the circle of children that soon gathered round, and to Hepzibah's shop-door, and upward to the arched window, whence Phoebe and Clifford were looking down.
Every moment, also, he took off his Highland bonnet, and performed a bow and scrape.
Sometimes, moreover, he made personal application to individuals, holding out his small black palm, and otherwise plainly signifying his excessive desire for whatever filthy lucre might happen to be in anybody's pocket.
Neither was there any possibility of satisfying the covetous little devil.
Clifford, however, was a being of another order.
He had taken childish delight in the music, and smiled, too, at the figures which it set in motion.
With a shivering repugnance at the idea of personal contact with the world, a powerful impulse still seized on Clifford, whenever the rush and roar of the human tide grew strongly audible to him.
As a mere object of sight, nothing is more deficient in picturesque features than a procession seen in its passage through narrow streets.
It might so fascinate him that he would hardly be restrained from plunging into the surging stream of human sympathies. So it proved with Clifford.
He shuddered; he grew pale; he threw an appealing look at Hepzibah and Phoebe, who were with him at the window. They comprehended nothing of his emotions, and supposed him merely disturbed by the unaccustomed tumult.
At last, with tremulous limbs, he started up, set his foot on the window-sill, and in an instant more would have been in the unguarded balcony.
Both impulses might have wrought on him at once. But his companions, affrighted by his gesture,-which was that of a man hurried away in spite of himself,-seized Clifford's garment and held him back.
Phoebe, to whom all extravagance was a horror, burst into sobs and tears. "Clifford, Clifford! are you crazy?" cried his sister. "I hardly know, Hepzibah," said Clifford, drawing a long breath.
Fear nothing,-it is over now,-but had I taken that plunge, and survived it, methinks it would have made me another man!" Possibly, in some sense, Clifford may have been right.
On such a Sabbath morn, were we pure enough to be its medium, we should be conscious of the earth's natural worship ascending through our frames, on whatever spot of ground we stood.
Forth, likewise, from the portal of the old house stepped Phoebe, putting up her small green sunshade, and throwing upward a glance and smile of parting kindness to the faces at the arched window.
In her aspect there was a familiar gladness, and a holiness that you could play with, and yet reverence it as much as ever.
She was like a prayer, offered up in the homeliest beauty of one's mother-tongue.
The emotion communicated itself to Hepzibah.
We have not a foot of space in any church to kneel upon; but let us go to some place of worship, even if we stand in the broad aisle.
They descended the staircase together,-gaunt, sallow Hepzibah, and pale, emaciated, age-stricken Clifford!
They pulled open the front door, and stepped across the threshold, and felt, both of them, as if they were standing in the presence of the whole world, and with mankind's great and terrible eye on them alone.
The eye of their Father seemed to be withdrawn, and gave them no encouragement.
The warm sunny air of the street made them shiver.
Their hearts quaked within them at the idea of taking one step farther. "It cannot be, Hepzibah!-it is too late," said Clifford with deep sadness.
We have no right among human beings,-no right anywhere but in this old house, which has a curse on it, and which, therefore, we are doomed to haunt!
And, besides," he continued, with a fastidious sensibility, inalienably characteristic of the man, "it would not be fit nor beautiful to go!
It is an ugly thought that I should be frightful to my fellow-beings, and that children would cling to their mothers' gowns at sight of me!" They shrank back into the dusky passage-way, and closed the door.
But, going up the staircase again, they found the whole interior of the house tenfold more dismal, and the air closer and heavier, for the glimpse and breath of freedom which they had just snatched.
They could not flee; their jailer had but left the door ajar in mockery, and stood behind it to watch them stealing out.
At the threshold, they felt his pitiless gripe upon them.
For, what other dungeon is so dark as one's own heart!
What jailer so inexorable as one's self! But it would be no fair picture of Clifford's state of mind were we to represent him as continually or prevailingly wretched.
On the contrary, there was no other man in the city, we are bold to affirm, of so much as half his years, who enjoyed so many lightsome and griefless moments as himself.
In this respect he was a child,-a child for the whole term of his existence, be it long or short.
He sometimes told Phoebe and Hepzibah his dreams, in which he invariably played the part of a child, or a very young man.
Hepzibah, piquing herself on a woman's accuracy in such matters, held it to be slightly different from what Clifford described; but, producing the very gown from an old trunk, it proved to be identical with his remembrance of it.
Had Clifford, every time that he emerged out of dreams so lifelike, undergone the torture of transformation from a boy into an old and broken man, the daily recurrence of the shock would have been too much to bear.
Their voices, also, were very pleasant to him, heard at a distance, all swarming and intermingling together as flies do in a sunny room. Clifford would, doubtless, have been glad to share their sports.
One afternoon he was seized with an irresistible desire to blow soap-bubbles; an amusement, as Hepzibah told Phoebe apart, that had been a favorite one with her brother when they were both children.
Behold him, therefore, at the arched window, with an earthen pipe in his mouth!
Behold him, with his gray hair, and a wan, unreal smile over his countenance, where still hovered a beautiful grace, which his worst enemy must have acknowledged to be spiritual and immortal, since it had survived so long!
Behold him, scattering airy spheres abroad from the window into the street!
Little impalpable worlds were those soap-bubbles, with the big world depicted, in hues bright as imagination, on the nothing of their surface.
Still blowing soap-bubbles!" The tone seemed as if meant to be kind and soothing, but yet had a bitterness of sarcasm in it.
As for Clifford, an absolute palsy of fear came over him.
Strength is incomprehensible by weakness, and, therefore, the more terrible.
Clifford's demands upon her time were usually satisfied, in those long days, considerably earlier than sunset.
Quiet as his daily existence seemed, it nevertheless drained all the resources by which he lived.
But, either there was a smouldering fire within him that consumed his vital energy, or the monotony that would have dragged itself with benumbing effect over a mind differently situated was no monotony to Clifford.
Possibly, he was in a state of second growth and recovery, and was constantly assimilating nutriment for his spirit and intellect from sights, sounds, and events which passed as a perfect void to persons more practised with the world.
Clifford, the reader may perhaps imagine, was too inert to operate morally on his fellow-creatures, however intimate and exclusive their relations with him.
But the sympathy or magnetism among human beings is more subtile and universal than we think; it exists, indeed, among different classes of organized life, and vibrates from one to another.
Her eyes looked larger, and darker, and deeper; so deep, at some silent moments, that they seemed like Artesian wells, down, down, into the infinite.
She was less girlish than when we first beheld her alighting from the omnibus; less girlish, but more a woman. The only youthful mind with which Phoebe had an opportunity of frequent intercourse was that of the daguerreotypist.
Inevitably, by the pressure of the seclusion about them, they had been brought into habits of some familiarity.
Had they met under different circumstances, neither of these young persons would have been likely to bestow much thought upon the other, unless, indeed, their extreme dissimilarity should have proved a principle of mutual attraction.
Both, it is true, were characters proper to New England life, and possessing a common ground, therefore, in their more external developments; but as unlike, in their respective interiors, as if their native climes had been at world-wide distance.
During the early part of their acquaintance, Phoebe had held back rather more than was customary with her frank and simple manners from Holgrave's not very marked advances.
Young as he was, and had his career terminated at the point already attained, there had been enough of incident to fill, very creditably, an autobiographic volume.
A romance on the plan of Gil Blas, adapted to American society and manners, would cease to be a romance.
Left early to his own guidance, he had begun to be self-dependent while yet a boy; and it was a condition aptly suited to his natural force of will.
He had subsequently travelled New England and the Middle States, as a peddler, in the employment of a Connecticut manufactory of cologne-water and other essences.
In an episodical way he had studied and practised dentistry, and with very flattering success, especially in many of the factory-towns along our inland streams.
As a supernumerary official, of some kind or other, aboard a packet-ship, he had visited Europe, and found means, before his return, to see Italy, and part of France and Germany.
At a later period he had spent some months in a community of Fourierists.
It had been taken up with the careless alacrity of an adventurer, who had his bread to earn.
It would be thrown aside as carelessly, whenever he should choose to earn his bread by some other equally digressive means.
It was impossible to know Holgrave without recognizing this to be the fact.
Hepzibah had seen it. Phoebe soon saw it likewise, and gave him the sort of confidence which such a certainty inspires.
She was startled, however, and sometimes repelled,-not by any doubt of his integrity to whatever law he acknowledged, but by a sense that his law differed from her own.
He was too calm and cool an observer.
Phoebe felt his eye, often; his heart, seldom or never.
He took a certain kind of interest in Hepzibah and her brother, and Phoebe herself.
He studied them attentively, and allowed no slightest circumstance of their individualities to escape him.
By things without, or by thoughts within?" "I cannot see his thoughts!
How should I?" replied Phoebe with simple piquancy.
He has had such a great sorrow, that his heart is made all solemn and sacred by it.
When he is cheerful,-when the sun shines into his mind,-then I venture to peep in, just as far as the light reaches, but no further.
It is holy ground where the shadow falls!" "How prettily you express this sentiment!" said the artist.
I can understand the feeling, without possessing it.
The more I look at it, the more it puzzles me, and I begin to suspect that a man's bewilderment is the measure of his wisdom.
Men and women, and children, too, are such strange creatures, that one never can be certain that he really knows them; nor ever guess what they have been from what he sees them to be now.
What a complex riddle-a complexity of complexities-do they present!
It requires intuitive sympathy, like a young girl's, to solve it.
Man's own youth is the world's youth; at least, he feels as if it were, and imagines that the earth's granite substance is something not yet hardened, and which he can mould into whatever shape he likes.
So it was with Holgrave.
Yet it was well for him to think so.
This enthusiasm, infusing itself through the calmness of his character, and thus taking an aspect of settled thought and wisdom, would serve to keep his youth pure, and make his aspirations high.
And when, with the years settling down more weightily upon him, his early faith should be modified by inevitable experience, it would be with no harsh and sudden revolution of his sentiments.
He considered himself a thinker, and was certainly of a thoughtful turn, but, with his own path to discover, had perhaps hardly yet reached the point where an educated man begins to think.
There appeared to be qualities in Holgrave, such as, in a country where everything is free to the hand that can grasp it, could hardly fail to put some of the world's prizes within his reach.
But these matters are delightfully uncertain.
At almost every step in life, we meet with young men of just about Holgrave's age, for whom we anticipate wonderful things, but of whom, even after much and careful inquiry, we never happen to hear another word.
The effervescence of youth and passion, and the fresh gloss of the intellect and imagination, endow them with a false brilliancy, which makes fools of themselves and other people.
Her thought had scarcely done him justice when it pronounced him cold; or, if so, he had grown warmer now.
Without such purpose on her part, and unconsciously on his, she made the House of the Seven Gables like a home to him, and the garden a familiar precinct.
With the insight on which he prided himself, he fancied that he could look through Phoebe, and all around her, and could read her off like a page of a child's story-book.
But these transparent natures are often deceptive in their depth; those pebbles at the bottom of the fountain are farther from us than we think.
Thus the artist, whatever he might judge of Phoebe's capacity, was beguiled, by some silent charm of hers, to talk freely of what he dreamed of doing in the world.
He poured himself out as to another self.
Very possibly, he forgot Phoebe while he talked to her, and was moved only by the inevitable tendency of thought, when rendered sympathetic by enthusiasm and emotion, to flow into the first safe reservoir which it finds.
Without directly answering her, he turned from the Future, which had heretofore been the theme of his discourse, and began to speak of the influences of the Past.
One subject, indeed, is but the reverberation of the other. "Shall we never, never get rid of this Past?" cried he, keeping up the earnest tone of his preceding conversation.
It lies upon the Present like a giant's dead body!
A dead man sits on all our judgment-seats; and living judges do but search out and repeat his decisions.
We read in dead men's books!
We laugh at dead men's jokes, and cry at dead men's pathos!
We are sick of dead men's diseases, physical and moral, and die of the same remedies with which dead doctors killed their patients!
We worship the living Deity according to dead men's forms and creeds. Whatever we seek to do, of our own free motion, a dead man's icy hand obstructs us!
Turn our eyes to what point we may, a dead man's white, immitigable face encounters them, and freezes our very heart!
He might just as reasonably order a durable suit of clothes,-leather, or guttapercha, or whatever else lasts longest,-so that his great-grandchildren should have the benefit of them, and cut precisely the same figure in the world that he himself does.
If each generation were allowed and expected to build its own houses, that single change, comparatively unimportant in itself, would imply almost every reform which society is now suffering for.
I doubt whether even our public edifices-our capitols, state-houses, court-houses, city-hall, and churches,-ought to be built of such permanent materials as stone or brick.
It were better that they should crumble to ruin once in twenty years, or thereabouts, as a hint to the people to examine into and reform the institutions which they symbolize." "How you hate everything old!" said Phoebe in dismay.
It makes me dizzy to think of such a shifting world!" "I certainly love nothing mouldy," answered Holgrave.
Now, this old Pyncheon House!
The house ought to be purified with fire,-purified till only its ashes remain!" "Then why do you live in it?" asked Phoebe, a little piqued. "Oh, I am pursuing my studies here; not in books, however," replied Holgrave.
The house, in my view, is expressive of that odious and abominable Past, with all its bad influences, against which I have just been declaiming.
I dwell in it for a while, that I may know the better how to hate it.
She seems to think that all the calamities of the Pyncheons began from that quarrel with the wizard, as you call him.
And you, Mr. Holgrave look as if you thought so too!
This idea is at the bottom of most of the wrong and mischief which men do.
The truth is, that, once in every half-century, at longest, a family should be merged into the great, obscure mass of humanity, and forget all about its ancestors.
Human blood, in order to keep its freshness, should run in hidden streams, as the water of an aqueduct is conveyed in subterranean pipes.
The truth is as I say!
Do you remember the daguerreotype, and its resemblance to the old portrait?" "How strangely in earnest you are!" exclaimed Phoebe, looking at him with surprise and perplexity; half alarmed and partly inclined to laugh.
You talk of the lunacy of the Pyncheons; is it contagious?" "I understand you!" said the artist, coloring and laughing.
I believe I am a little mad.
Well, such is literary fame!
In the humorous line, I am thought to have a very pretty way with me; and as for pathos, I am as provocative of tears as an onion.
Does the house need any repair?
Well it may, by this time; and no blame to my father who built it, neither!
I was reading the old Colonel's tombstone, no longer ago than last Sabbath; and, reckoning from that date, the house has stood seven-and-thirty years.
No wonder if there should be a job to do on the roof." "Don't know what massa wants," answered Scipio.
For a fair, workmanlike job, he'll find me his man.
And so the house is haunted, is it?
It will take a tighter workman than I am to keep the spirits out of the Seven Gables.
And what for do you look so black at me?" "No matter, darky," said the carpenter.
Do you think nobody is to look black but yourself?
Go tell your master I'm coming; and if you happen to see Mistress Alice, his daughter, give Matthew Maule's humble respects to her.
She has brought a fair face from Italy,-fair, and gentle, and proud,-has that same Alice Pyncheon!" "He talk of Mistress Alice!" cried Scipio, as he returned from his errand.
It is not the less certain, however, that awe and terror brooded over the memories of those who died for this horrible crime of witchcraft.
Their graves, in the crevices of the rocks, were supposed to be incapable of retaining the occupants who had been so hastily thrust into them.
Old Matthew Maule, especially, was known to have as little hesitation or difficulty in rising out of his grave as an ordinary man in getting out of bed, and was as often seen at midnight as living people at noonday.
The ghost, it appears,-with the pertinacity which was one of his distinguishing characteristics while alive,-insisted that he was the rightful proprietor of the site upon which the house stood.
It is wonderful how many absurdities were promulgated in reference to the young man.
He was fabled, for example, to have a strange power of getting into people's dreams, and regulating matters there according to his own fancy, pretty much like the stage-manager of a theatre.
There was a great deal of talk among the neighbors, particularly the petticoated ones, about what they called the witchcraft of Maule's eye.
This noted edifice, though its style might be getting a little out of fashion, was still as respectable a family residence as that of any gentleman in town.
The present owner, Gervayse Pyncheon, was said to have contracted a dislike to the house, in consequence of a shock to his sensibility, in early childhood, from the sudden death of his grandfather.
In the very act of running to climb Colonel Pyncheon's knee, the boy had discovered the old Puritan to be a corpse.
On arriving at manhood, Mr. Pyncheon had visited England, where he married a lady of fortune, and had subsequently spent many years, partly in the mother country, and partly in various cities on the continent of Europe.
During this period, the family mansion had been consigned to the charge of a kinsman, who was allowed to make it his home for the time being, in consideration of keeping the premises in thorough repair.
So faithfully had this contract been fulfilled, that now, as the carpenter approached the house, his practised eye could detect nothing to criticise in its condition.
You could see, at once, that there was the stir of a large family within it.
Now and then a maid-servant, neatly dressed, and now the shining sable face of a slave, might be seen bustling across the windows, in the lower part of the house.
Her presence imparted an indescribable grace and faint witchery to the whole edifice.
My father told me that dial was put up only an hour before the old Colonel's death.
How truly it has kept time these seven-and-thirty years past!
Anybody think he beat on the door with his biggest hammer!" "Here I am!" said Maule sternly.
Show me the way to your master's parlor." As he stept into the house, a note of sweet and melancholy music thrilled and vibrated along the passage-way, proceeding from one of the rooms above stairs.
It was the harpsichord which Alice Pyncheon had brought with her from beyond the sea.
The fair Alice bestowed most of her maiden leisure between flowers and music, although the former were apt to droop, and the melodies were often sad.
The room in which this gentleman sat was a parlor of moderate size, looking out upon the garden of the house, and having its windows partly shadowed by the foliage of fruit-trees.
In one corner stood a marble woman, to whom her own beauty was the sole and sufficient garment.
Be pleased to explain your business, that I may go back to my own affairs." "Ah! excuse me," said Mr. Pyncheon quietly.
I did not mean to tax your time without a recompense.
I am well aware that my grandfather was compelled to resort to a suit at law, in order to establish his claim to the foundation-site of this edifice.
We will not, if you please, renew the discussion.
The matter was settled at the time, and by the competent authorities,-equitably, it is to be presumed,-and, at all events, irrevocably.
It was well known, to those in his confidence, that he anticipated neither difficulty nor delay.
Now, Colonel Pyncheon, I need hardly say, was a practical man, well acquainted with public and private business, and not at all the person to cherish ill-founded hopes, or to attempt the following out of an impracticable scheme.
It is obvious to conclude, therefore, that he had grounds, not apparent to his heirs, for his confident anticipation of success in the matter of this Eastern claim.
So much weight had the shrewd lawyers assigned to these fables, that (but Mr. Pyncheon did not see fit to inform the carpenter of the fact) they had secretly caused the wizard's grave to be searched.
And here Mr. Pyncheon could bring an item of his own personal evidence into play.
Not to get his rights back again would he have carried off one of those papers!" "I shall not bandy words with you," observed the foreign-bred Mr. Pyncheon, with haughty composure.
Nor will it become me to resent any rudeness towards either my grandfather or myself.
A gentleman, before seeking intercourse with a person of your station and habits, will first consider whether the urgency of the end may compensate for the disagreeableness of the means.
For a long time Matthew Maule is said to have turned a cold ear to these propositions.
And finally, at Matthew Maule's audacious suggestion of a transfer of the seven-gabled structure, the ghostly portrait is averred to have lost all patience, and to have shown itself on the point of descending bodily from its frame.
But such incredible incidents are merely to be mentioned aside. "Give up this house!" exclaimed Mr. Pyncheon, in amazement at the proposal.
Were I to do so, my grandfather would not rest quiet in his grave!" "He never has, if all stories are true," remarked the carpenter composedly.
But that matter concerns his grandson more than it does Matthew Maule.
I have no other terms to propose." Impossible as he at first thought it to comply with Maule's conditions, still, on a second glance, Mr. Pyncheon was of opinion that they might at least be made matter of discussion.
He himself had no personal attachment for the house, nor any pleasant associations connected with his childish residence in it.
On the contrary, after seven-and-thirty years, the presence of his dead grandfather seemed still to pervade it, as on that morning when the affrighted boy had beheld him, with so ghastly an aspect, stiffening in his chair.
It was a mansion exceedingly inadequate to the style of living which it would be incumbent on Mr. Pyncheon to support, after realizing his territorial rights.
His steward might deign to occupy it, but never, certainly, the great landed proprietor himself.
He was quite ashamed, after the foregoing reflections, to propose any diminution of so moderate a recompense for the immense service to be rendered. "I consent to your proposition, Maule!" cried he.
Others say that Matthew Maule was contented with a private written agreement, in which Mr. Pyncheon pledged his honor and integrity to the fulfillment of the terms concluded upon.
The gentleman then ordered wine, which he and the carpenter drank together, in confirmation of their bargain.
What can my daughter have to do with a business like this?" Indeed, at this new demand on the carpenter's part, the proprietor of the Seven Gables was even more thunder-struck than at the cool proposition to surrender his house.
There was, at least, an assignable motive for the first stipulation; there appeared to be none whatever for the last.
Not to encumber our story with Mr. Pyncheon's scruples, whether of conscience, pride, or fatherly affection, he at length ordered his daughter to be called.
If ever there was a lady born, and set apart from the world's vulgar mass by a certain gentle and cold stateliness, it was this very Alice Pyncheon.
Yet there was the womanly mixture in her; the tenderness, or, at least, the tender capabilities.
For the sake of that redeeming quality, a man of generous nature would have forgiven all her pride, and have been content, almost, to lie down in her path, and let Alice set her slender foot upon his heart.
A glow of artistic approval brightened over Alice Pyncheon's face; she was struck with admiration-which she made no attempt to conceal-of the remarkable comeliness, strength, and energy of Maule's figure.
But that admiring glance (which most other men, perhaps, would have cherished as a sweet recollection all through life) the carpenter never forgave.
It must have been the devil himself that made Maule so subtile in his preception. "Does the girl look at me as if I were a brute beast?" thought he, setting his teeth.
She shall know whether I have a human spirit; and the worse for her, if it prove stronger than her own!" "My father, you sent for me," said Alice, in her sweet and harp-like voice.
But, if you have business with this young man, pray let me go again.
You know I do not love this room, in spite of that Claude, with which you try to bring back sunny recollections." "Stay a moment, young lady, if you please!" said Matthew Maule.
My business with your father is over.
The importance of the document in question renders it advisable to neglect no possible, even if improbable, method of regaining it.
You will therefore oblige me, my dear Alice, by answering this person's inquiries, and complying with his lawful and reasonable requests, so far as they may appear to have the aforesaid object in view.
Neither do I conceive that a lady, while true to herself, can have aught to fear from whomsoever, or in any circumstances!" Poor Alice!
Setting aside all advantages of rank, this fair girl deemed herself conscious of a power-combined of beauty, high, unsullied purity, and the preservative force of womanhood-that could make her sphere impenetrable, unless betrayed by treachery within.
She instinctively knew, it may be, that some sinister or evil potency was now striving to pass her barriers; nor would she decline the contest.
But, in truth, the picture was no more to him at that moment than the blank wall against which it hung.
His mind was haunted with the many and strange tales which he had heard, attributing mysterious if not supernatural endowments to these Maules, as well the grandson here present as his two immediate ancestors.
Mr. Pyncheon's long residence abroad, and intercourse with men of wit and fashion,-courtiers, worldlings, and free-thinkers,-had done much towards obliterating the grim Puritan superstitions, which no man of New England birth at that early period could entirely escape.
But, on the other hand, had not a whole community believed Maule's grandfather to be a wizard?
Had not the crime been proved?
Had not the wizard died for it?
Had he not bequeathed a legacy of hatred against the Pyncheons to this only grandson, who, as it appeared, was now about to exercise a subtle influence over the daughter of his enemy's house?
Might not this influence be the same that was called witchcraft? Turning half around, he caught a glimpse of Maule's figure in the looking-glass.
At some paces from Alice, with his arms uplifted in the air, the carpenter made a gesture as if directing downward a slow, ponderous, and invisible weight upon the maiden. "Stay, Maule!" exclaimed Mr. Pyncheon, stepping forward.
I forbid your proceeding further!" "Pray, my dear father, do not interrupt the young man," said Alice, without changing her position.
His efforts, I assure you, will prove very harmless." Again Mr. Pyncheon turned his eyes towards the Claude.
It was then his daughter's will, in opposition to his own, that the experiment should be fully tried.
Henceforth, therefore, he did but consent, not urge it. And was it not for her sake far more than for his own that he desired its success?
That lost parchment once restored, the beautiful Alice Pyncheon, with the rich dowry which he could then bestow, might wed an English duke or a German reigning-prince, instead of some New England clergyman or lawyer!
At the thought, the ambitious father almost consented, in his heart, that, if the devil's power were needed to the accomplishment of this great object, Maule might evoke him.
Alice's own purity would be her safeguard. With his mind full of imaginary magnificence, Mr. Pyncheon heard a half-uttered exclamation from his daughter.
It was very faint and low; so indistinct that there seemed but half a will to shape out the words, and too undefined a purport to be intelligible.
Yet it was a call for help!-his conscience never doubted it;-and, little more than a whisper to his ear, it was a dismal shriek, and long reechoed so, in the region round his heart!
But this time the father did not turn. After a further interval, Maule spoke. "Behold your daughter," said he. Mr. Pyncheon came hastily forward.
Alice sat in an attitude of profound repose, with the long brown lashes drooping over her eyes. "There she is!" said the carpenter.
My daughter!" exclaimed Mr. Pyncheon.
My own Alice!" She did not stir. "Louder!" said Maule, smiling. "Alice!
It troubles me to see you thus! Awake!" He spoke loudly, with terror in his voice, and close to that delicate ear which had always been so sensitive to every discord.
But the sound evidently reached her not.
He kissed her, with so great a heart-throb in the kiss, that he thought she must needs feel it.
Then, in a gust of anger at her insensibility, he shook her maiden form with a violence which, the next moment, it affrighted him to remember.
He withdrew his encircling arms, and Alice-whose figure, though flexible, had been wholly impassive-relapsed into the same attitude as before these attempts to arouse her.
You and the fiend together have robbed me of my daughter.
Is it my crime if you have sold your daughter for the mere hope of getting a sheet of yellow parchment into your clutch?
There sits Mistress Alice quietly asleep.
He beckoned with his hand, and, rising from her chair,-blindly, but undoubtingly, as tending to her sure and inevitable centre,-the proud Alice approached him.
He waved her back, and, retreating, Alice sank again into her seat. "She is mine!" said Matthew Maule.
It appears to have been his object to convert the mind of Alice into a kind of telescopic medium, through which Mr. Pyncheon and himself might obtain a glimpse into the spiritual world.
He succeeded, accordingly, in holding an imperfect sort of intercourse, at one remove, with the departed personages in whose custody the so much valued secret had been carried beyond the precincts of earth.
During her trance, Alice described three figures as being present to her spiritualized perception.
These three visionary characters possessed a mutual knowledge of the missing document.
Upon this, the two meanly dressed figures mocked and jeered at the much-abashed old dignitary, and pointed their fingers at the stain. At this juncture, Maule turned to Mr. Pyncheon. "It will never be allowed," said he.
The custody of this secret, that would so enrich his heirs, makes part of your grandfather's retribution.
He must choke with it until it is no longer of any value. And keep you the House of the Seven Gables!
The carpenter smiled. "Aha, worshipful sir!-so you have old Maule's blood to drink!" said he jeeringly. "Fiend in man's shape! why dost thou keep dominion over my child?" cried Mr. Pyncheon, when his choked utterance could make way.
Give me back my daughter.
Then go thy ways; and may we never meet again!" "Your daughter!" said Matthew Maule.
On recognizing Matthew Maule, she assumed an air of somewhat cold but gentle dignity, the rather, as there was a certain peculiar smile on the carpenter's visage that stirred the native pride of the fair Alice.
A power that she little dreamed of had laid its grasp upon her maiden soul.
A will, most unlike her own, constrained her to do its grotesque and fantastic bidding.
Her father as it proved, had martyred his poor child to an inordinate desire for measuring his land by miles instead of acres.
And, therefore, while Alice Pyncheon lived, she was Maule's slave, in a bondage more humiliating, a thousand-fold, than that which binds its chain around the body.
And, even were it prayer-time, or at a funeral, Alice must break into wild laughter. "Alice, be sad!"-and, at the instant, down would come her tears, quenching all the mirth of those around her like sudden rain upon a bonfire.
Thus all the dignity of life was lost.
There was laughter and good cheer within; for Matthew Maule, that night, was to wed the laborer's daughter, and had summoned proud Alice Pyncheon to wait upon his bride.
And so she did; and when the twain were one, Alice awoke out of her enchanted sleep.
Yet, no longer proud,-humbly, and with a smile all steeped in sadness,-she kissed Maule's wife, and went her way.
It was an inclement night; the southeast wind drove the mingled snow and rain into her thinly sheltered bosom; her satin slippers were wet through and through, as she trod the muddy sidewalks.
The next day a cold; soon, a settled cough; anon, a hectic cheek, a wasted form, that sat beside the harpsichord, and filled the house with music!
Music in which a strain of the heavenly choristers was echoed!
For Alice had borne her last humiliation!
For Alice was penitent of her one earthly sin, and proud no more! The Pyncheons made a great funeral for Alice.
The kith and kin were there, and the whole respectability of the town besides.
But, last in the procession, came Matthew Maule, gnashing his teeth, as if he would have bitten his own heart in twain,-the darkest and wofullest man that ever walked behind a corpse!
He now observed that a certain remarkable drowsiness (wholly unlike that with which the reader possibly feels himself affected) had been flung over the senses of his auditress.
It was the effect, unquestionably, of the mystic gesticulations by which he had sought to bring bodily before Phoebe's perception the figure of the mesmerizing carpenter.
With the lids drooping over her eyes,-now lifted for an instant, and drawn down again as with leaden weights,-she leaned slightly towards him, and seemed almost to regulate her breath by his.
Holgrave gazed at her, as he rolled up his manuscript, and recognized an incipient stage of that curious psychological condition which, as he had himself told Phoebe, he possessed more than an ordinary faculty of producing.
A veil was beginning to be muffled about her, in which she could behold only him, and live only in his thoughts and emotions.
His glance, as he fastened it on the young girl, grew involuntarily more concentrated; in his attitude there was the consciousness of power, investing his hardly mature figure with a dignity that did not belong to its physical manifestation.
Let us, therefore,-whatever his defects of nature and education, and in spite of his scorn for creeds and institutions,-concede to the daguerreotypist the rare and high quality of reverence for another's individuality.
My poor story, it is but too evident, will never do for Godey or Graham!
Only think of your falling asleep at what I hoped the newspaper critics would pronounce a most brilliant, powerful, imaginative, pathetic, and original winding up!
Well, the manuscript must serve to light lamps with;-if, indeed, being so imbued with my gentle dulness, it is any longer capable of flame!" "Me asleep!
How can you say so?" answered Phoebe, as unconscious of the crisis through which she had passed as an infant of the precipice to the verge of which it has rolled.
These silvery beams were already powerful enough to change the character of the lingering daylight.
They softened and embellished the aspect of the old house; although the shadows fell deeper into the angles of its many gables, and lay brooding under the projecting story, and within the half-open door.
With the lapse of every moment, the garden grew more picturesque; the fruit-trees, shrubbery, and flower-bushes had a dark obscurity among them.
The commonplace characteristics-which, at noontide, it seemed to have taken a century of sordid life to accumulate-were now transfigured by a charm of romance.
A hundred mysterious years were whispering among the leaves, whenever the slight sea-breeze found its way thither and stirred them.
The artist chanced to be one on whom the reviving influence fell.
After all, what a good world we live in!
How young it is, too, with nothing really rotten or age-worn in it!
This old house, for example, which sometimes has positively oppressed my breath with its smell of decaying timber!
And this garden, where the black mould always clings to my spade, as if I were a sexton delving in a graveyard!
Moonlight, and the sentiment in man's heart responsive to it, are the greatest of renovators and reformers.
And all other reform and renovation, I suppose, will prove to be no better than moonshine!" "I have been happier than I am now; at least, much gayer," said Phoebe thoughtfully.
Yet I am sensible of a great charm in this brightening moonlight; and I love to watch how the day, tired as it is, lags away reluctantly, and hates to be called yesterday so soon.
I never cared much about moonlight before.
It seems as if I had looked at everything, hitherto, in broad daylight, or else in the ruddy light of a cheerful fire, glimmering and dancing through a room.
Ah, poor me!" she added, with a half-melancholy laugh.
I shall never be so merry as before I knew Cousin Hepzibah and poor Cousin Clifford.
I have grown a great deal older, in this little time.
They are welcome, notwithstanding!" "You have lost nothing, Phoebe, worth keeping, nor which it was possible to keep," said Holgrave after a pause.
Our first youth is of no value; for we are never conscious of it until after it is gone.
This bemoaning of one's self (as you do now) over the first, careless, shallow gayety of youth departed, and this profound happiness at youth regained,-so much deeper and richer than that we lost,-are essential to the soul's development.
I go to make a few arrangements, and to take a more deliberate leave of my mother and friends.
It is pleasant to live where one is much desired and very useful; and I think I may have the satisfaction of feeling myself so here." "You surely may, and more than you imagine," said the artist.
Whatever health, comfort, and natural life exists in the house is embodied in your person.
These blessings came along with you, and will vanish when you leave the threshold.
Miss Hepzibah, by secluding herself from society, has lost all true relation with it, and is, in fact, dead; although she galvanizes herself into a semblance of life, and stands behind her counter, afflicting the world with a greatly-to-be-deprecated scowl.
Your poor cousin Clifford is another dead and long-buried person, on whom the governor and council have wrought a necromantic miracle.
I should not wonder if he were to crumble away, some morning, after you are gone, and nothing be seen of him more, except a heap of dust.
Miss Hepzibah, at any rate, will lose what little flexibility she has.
They both exist by you." "I should be very sorry to think so," answered Phoebe gravely.
But it is true that my small abilities were precisely what they needed; and I have a real interest in their welfare,-an odd kind of motherly sentiment,-which I wish you would not laugh at!
A kindly interest, too, helpless old children that they are!
But you have no conception what a different kind of heart mine is from your own.
If permitted to witness the close, I doubt not to derive a moral satisfaction from it, go matters how they may.
There is a conviction within me that the end draws nigh.
How is it possible to see people in distress without desiring, more than anything else, to help and comfort them?
I do not like this.
Do you know of any new trouble hanging over my poor relatives?
If so, tell me at once, and I will not leave them!" "Forgive me, Phoebe!" said the daguerreotypist, holding out his hand, to which the girl was constrained to yield her own.
I am somewhat of a mystic, it must be confessed.
The tendency is in my blood, together with the faculty of mesmerism, which might have brought me to Gallows Hill, in the good old times of witchcraft.
Believe me, if I were really aware of any secret, the disclosure of which would benefit your friends,-who are my own friends, likewise,-you should learn it before we part.
But I have no such knowledge." "You hold something back!" said Phoebe. "Nothing,-no secrets but my own," answered Holgrave.
I can perceive, indeed, that Judge Pyncheon still keeps his eye on Clifford, in whose ruin he had so large a share.
His motives and intentions, however are a mystery to me.
My mind has a twist aside, like almost everybody's mind, except your own.
You puzzle me more than ever!" "Then let us part friends!" said Holgrave, pressing her hand.
Or, if not friends, let us part before you entirely hate me.
You, who love everybody else in the world!" "Good-by, then," said Phoebe frankly.
I do not mean to be angry a great while, and should be sorry to have you think so.
There has Cousin Hepzibah been standing in the shadow of the doorway, this quarter of an hour past!
She thinks I stay too long in the damp garden.
So, good-night, and good-by." On the second morning thereafter, Phoebe might have been seen, in her straw bonnet, with a shawl on one arm and a little carpet-bag on the other, bidding adieu to Hepzibah and Cousin Clifford.
How had Hepzibah-grim, silent, and irresponsive to her overflow of cordial sentiment-contrived to win so much love?
Everything, at that instant of farewell, stood out prominently to her view.
She called Chanticleer, his two wives, and the venerable chicken, and threw them some crumbs of bread from the breakfast-table.
Then, the smile chose to shine out; now, you choose it should.
It is well that you are going back, for a little while, into your native air.
There has been too much weight on your spirits.
Close!-closer!-and look me in the face!" Phoebe put one of her small hands on each elbow of his chair, and leaned her face towards him, so that he might peruse it as carefully as he would.
It is probable that the latent emotions of this parting hour had revived, in some degree, his bedimmed and enfeebled faculties.
At any rate, Phoebe soon felt that, if not the profound insight of a seer, yet a more than feminine delicacy of appreciation, was making her heart the subject of its regard.
A moment before, she had known nothing which she would have sought to hide.
Now, as if some secret were hinted to her own consciousness through the medium of another's perception, she was fain to let her eyelids droop beneath Clifford's gaze.
A blush, too,-the redder, because she strove hard to keep it down,-ascended bigger and higher, in a tide of fitful progress, until even her brow was all suffused with it. "It is enough, Phoebe," said Clifford, with a melancholy smile.
When I first saw you, you were the prettiest little maiden in the world; and now you have deepened into beauty.
Girlhood has passed into womanhood; the bud is a bloom!
On the doorstep, she met the little urchin whose marvellous feats of gastronomy have been recorded in the earlier pages of our narrative.
They can never do without you, now,-never, Phoebe; never-no more than if one of God's angels had been living with them, and making their dismal house pleasant and comfortable!
Don't it seem to you they'd be in a sad case, if, some pleasant summer morning like this, the angel should spread his wings, and fly to the place he came from?
Well, just so they feel, now that you're going home by the railroad!
They can't bear it, Miss Phoebe; so be sure to come back!" "I am no angel, Uncle Venner," said Phoebe, smiling, as she offered him her hand at the street-corner.
But, I suppose, people never feel so much like angels as when they are doing what little good they may.
Poor Clifford was cut off, at once, from all his scanty resources of enjoyment.
Phoebe was not there; nor did the sunshine fall upon the floor.
The garden, with its muddy walks, and the chill, dripping foliage of its summer-house, was an image to be shuddered at.
The custom of the shop fell off, because a story got abroad that she soured her small beer and other damageable commodities, by scowling on them.
The inutility of her best efforts, however, palsied the poor old gentlewoman.
She could do little else than sit silently in a corner of the room, when the wet pear-tree branches, sweeping across the small windows, created a noonday dusk, which Hepzibah unconsciously darkened with her woe-begone aspect.
It was no fault of Hepzibah's.
Everything-even the old chairs and tables, that had known what weather was for three or four such lifetimes as her own-looked as damp and chill as if the present were their worst experience.
But the storm demon kept watch above, and, whenever a flame was kindled, drove the smoke back again, choking the chimney's sooty throat with its own breath.
Nevertheless, during four days of this miserable storm, Clifford wrapt himself in an old cloak, and occupied his customary chair.
On the morning of the fifth, when summoned to breakfast, he responded only by a broken-hearted murmur, expressive of a determination not to leave his bed.
His sister made no attempt to change his purpose.
In fact, entirely as she loved him, Hepzibah could hardly have borne any longer the wretched duty-so impracticable by her few and rigid faculties-of seeking pastime for a still sensitive, but ruined mind, critical and fastidious, without force or volition.
In the course of the forenoon, Hepzibah heard a note of music, which (there being no other tuneful contrivance in the House of the Seven Gables) she knew must proceed from Alice Pyncheon's harpsichord.
She was aware that Clifford, in his youth, had possessed a cultivated taste for music, and a considerable degree of skill in its practice.
It was difficult, however, to conceive of his retaining an accomplishment to which daily exercise is so essential, in the measure indicated by the sweet, airy, and delicate, though most melancholy strain, that now stole upon her ear.
Nor was it less marvellous that the long-silent instrument should be capable of so much melody.
Hepzibah involuntarily thought of the ghostly harmonies, prelusive of death in the family, which were attributed to the legendary Alice.
Hepzibah delayed a moment, while muffling herself in a faded shawl, which had been her defensive armor in a forty years' warfare against the east wind.
I devote myself to Clifford.
Why insulate him thus from all sympathy and kindness? Clifford, alas! has had too much of solitude.
Now let him try society,-the society, that is to say, of kindred and old friends.
Let me, for instance, but see Clifford, and I will answer for the good effect of the interview." "You cannot see him," answered Hepzibah.
Clifford has kept his bed since yesterday." "What!
Is he ill?" exclaimed Judge Pyncheon, starting with what seemed to be angry alarm; for the very frown of the old Puritan darkened through the room as he spoke.
Nay, then, I must and will see him!
What did I do, in detriment to Clifford, which it was possible to leave undone?
How could you, his sister,-if, for your never-ending sorrow, as it has been for mine, you had known what I did,-have shown greater tenderness?
Ah, you little know me, Cousin Hepzibah!
You little know this heart!
It now throbs at the thought of meeting him!
There lives not the human being (except yourself,-and you not more than I) who has shed so many tears for Clifford's calamity.
You behold some of them now.
There is none who would so delight to promote his happiness!
Say so, like a man!
You cherish, at this moment, some black purpose against him in your heart! Speak it out, at once!-or, if you hope so to promote it better, hide it till you can triumph in its success!
But never speak again of your love for my poor brother.
It will drive me beyond a woman's decency!
It will drive me mad!
It will make me spurn you!" For once, Hepzibah's wrath had given her courage.
It was denied by nobody.
Nor (we must do him the further justice to say) did Judge Pyncheon himself, probably, entertain many or very frequent doubts, that his enviable reputation accorded with his deserts.
And yet, strong as this evidence may seem to be, we should hesitate to peril our own conscience on the assertion, that the Judge and the consenting world were right, and that poor Hepzibah with her solitary prejudice was wrong.
Hidden from mankind,-forgotten by himself, or buried so deeply under a sculptured and ornamented pile of ostentatious deeds that his daily life could take no note of it,-there may have lurked some evil and unsightly thing.
They are ordinarily men to whom forms are of paramount importance.
Their field of action lies among the external phenomena of life.
With what fairer and nobler emblem could any man desire to shadow forth his character?
The inhabitant will not be conscious of it, for it has long been his daily breath!
Neither will the visitors, for they smell only the rich odors which the master sedulously scatters through the palace, and the incense which they bring, and delight to burn before him!
This proper face was what he beheld in the looking-glass.
This admirably arranged life was what he was conscious of in the progress of every day.
What is there so ponderous in evil, that a thumb's bigness of it should outweigh the mass of things not evil which were heaped into the other scale!
This scale and balance system is a favorite one with people of Judge Pyncheon's brotherhood.
The effect was as when the light, vapory clouds, with their soft coloring, suddenly vanish from the stony brow of a precipitous mountain, and leave there the frown which you at once feel to be eternal.
Hepzibah almost adopted the insane belief that it was her old Puritan ancestor, and not the modern Judge, on whom she had just been wreaking the bitterness of her heart.
Then, why do you persecute us any longer?
Leave poor Clifford and me in peace.
Neither of us desires anything better!" "It is my purpose to see Clifford before I leave this house," continued the Judge.
Do not act like a madwoman, Hepzibah!
I am his only friend, and an all-powerful one.
Did you think his release a triumph over me?
Not so, my good cousin; not so, by any means!
The furthest possible from that!
No; but it was the accomplishment of a purpose long entertained on my part.
I set him free!" "You!" answered Hepzibah.
I never will believe it!
He owed his dungeon to you; his freedom to God's providence!" "I set him free!" reaffirmed Judge Pyncheon, with the calmest composure.
And I came hither now to decide whether he shall retain his freedom.
It will depend upon himself.
But, Cousin Hepzibah, you confess a great deal, and very much to the purpose.
Now, listen, and I will frankly explain my reasons for insisting on this interview.
He was supposed to be immensely rich.
Nobody doubted that he stood among the weightiest men of his day.
Is this your price for ceasing to persecute poor Clifford?" "Certainly not, my dear cousin!" answered the Judge, smiling benevolently.
But here lies the gist of the matter.
Of my uncle's unquestionably great estate, as I have said, not the half-no, not one third, as I am fully convinced-was apparent after his death.
Now, I have the best possible reasons for believing that your brother Clifford can give me a clew to the recovery of the remainder." "Clifford!-Clifford know of any hidden wealth?
Clifford have it in his power to make you rich?" cried the old gentlewoman, affected with a sense of something like ridicule at the idea.
Clifford told me so himself!" "No, no!" exclaimed Hepzibah incredulously.
You are dreaming, Cousin Jaffrey." "I do not belong to the dreaming class of men," said the Judge quietly. "Some months before my uncle's death, Clifford boasted to me of the possession of the secret of incalculable wealth.
His purpose was to taunt me, and excite my curiosity.
But, from a pretty distinct recollection of the particulars of our conversation, I am thoroughly convinced that there was truth in what he said.
Clifford, at this moment, if he chooses,-and choose he must!-can inform me where to find the schedule, the documents, the evidences, in whatever shape they exist, of the vast amount of Uncle Jaffrey's missing property.
His boast was no idle word.
He looked upon me as his enemy.
He considered me as the cause of his overwhelming disgrace, his imminent peril of death, his irretrievable ruin.
There was no great probability, therefore, of his volunteering information, out of his dungeon, that should elevate me still higher on the ladder of prosperity.
But the moment has now come when he must give up his secret." "And what if he should refuse?" inquired Hepzibah.
The butcher, the baker, the fish-monger, some of the customers of your shop, and many a prying old woman, have told me several of the secrets of your interior.
A still larger circle-I myself, among the rest-can testify to his extravagances at the arched window.
Thousands beheld him, a week or two ago, on the point of flinging himself thence into the street.
From all this testimony, I am led to apprehend-reluctantly, and with deep grief-that Clifford's misfortunes have so affected his intellect, never very strong, that he cannot safely remain at large.
You have forgotten that a woman was your mother!-that you have had sisters, brothers, children of your own!-or that there ever was affection between man and man, or pity from one man to another, in this miserable world!
Else, how could you have dreamed of this?
You are not young, Cousin Jaffrey!-no, nor middle-aged,-but already an old man!
The hair is white upon your head!
How many years have you to live?
Are you not rich enough for that little time?
Then, why should you do this cruel, cruel thing?-so mad a thing, that I know not whether to call it wicked!
Alas, Cousin Jaffrey, this hard and grasping spirit has run in our blood these two hundred years.
I am not apt to change.
Clifford must give up his secret, or take the consequences.
And let him decide quickly; for I have several affairs to attend to this morning, and an important dinner engagement with some political friends." "Clifford has no secret!" answered Hepzibah.
And God will not let you do the thing you meditate!" "We shall see," said the unmoved Judge.
Meanwhile, choose whether you will summon Clifford, and allow this business to be amicably settled by an interview between two kinsmen, or drive me to harsher measures, which I should be most happy to feel myself justified in avoiding.
The responsibility is altogether on your part." "You are stronger than I," said Hepzibah, after a brief consideration; "and you have no pity in your strength!
Surely, it must have been at no slight cost that he had thus fortified his soul with iron.
Such calmness is a mightier effort than the violence of weaker men.
And there was yet a heavy task for him to do.
I thought you called me back." "No, no" gruffly answered Judge Pyncheon with a harsh frown, while his brow grew almost a black purple, in the shadow of the room.
Why should I call you back?
There was a strange aspect in it.
As she trode along the foot-worn passages, and opened one crazy door after another, and ascended the creaking staircase, she gazed wistfully and fearfully around.
It would have been no marvel, to her excited mind, if, behind or beside her, there had been the rustle of dead people's garments, or pale visages awaiting her on the landing-place above.
Her nerves were set all ajar by the scene of passion and terror through which she had just struggled.
Her colloquy with Judge Pyncheon, who so perfectly represented the person and attributes of the founder of the family, had called back the dreary past.
The whole seemed little else but a series of calamity, reproducing itself in successive generations, with one general hue, and varying in little, save the outline.
Her nerves were in a shake.
Instinctively she paused before the arched window, and looked out upon the street, in order to seize its permanent objects with her mental grasp, and thus to steady herself from the reel and vibration which affected her more immediate sphere.
It brought her up, as we may say, with a kind of shock, when she beheld everything under the same appearance as the day before, and numberless preceding days, except for the difference between sunshine and sullen storm.
Her eyes travelled along the street, from doorstep to doorstep, noting the wet sidewalks, with here and there a puddle in hollows that had been imperceptible until filled with water.
She screwed her dim optics to their acutest point, in the hope of making out, with greater distinctness, a certain window, where she half saw, half guessed, that a tailor's seamstress was sitting at her work.
Hepzibah flung herself upon that unknown woman's companionship, even thus far off.
Then she was attracted by a chaise rapidly passing, and watched its moist and glistening top, and its splashing wheels, until it had turned the corner, and refused to carry any further her idly trifling, because appalled and overburdened, mind.
Hepzibah wished that he would pass yet more slowly, and befriend her shivering solitude a little longer.
Anything that would take her out of the grievous present, and interpose human beings betwixt herself and what was nearest to her,-whatever would defer for an instant the inevitable errand on which she was bound,-all such impediments were welcome.
Next to the lightest heart, the heaviest is apt to be most playful. Hepzibah had little hardihood for her own proper pain, and far less for what she must inflict on Clifford.
Of so slight a nature, and so shattered by his previous calamities, it could not well be short of utter ruin to bring him face to face with the hard, relentless man who had been his evil destiny through life.
It would be like flinging a porcelain vase, with already a crack in it, against a granite column.
Never before had Hepzibah so adequately estimated the powerful character of her cousin Jaffrey,-powerful by intellect, energy of will, the long habit of acting among men, and, as she believed, by his unscrupulous pursuit of selfish ends through evil means.
It did but increase the difficulty that Judge Pyncheon was under a delusion as to the secret which he supposed Clifford to possess.
Indeed, what had become of it already?
Soon to be wholly so! For a moment, the thought crossed Hepzibah's mind, whether Clifford might not really have such knowledge of their deceased uncle's vanished estate as the Judge imputed to him.
She remembered some vague intimations, on her brother's part, which-if the supposition were not essentially preposterous-might have been so interpreted.
There had been schemes of travel and residence abroad, day-dreams of brilliant life at home, and splendid castles in the air, which it would have required boundless wealth to build and realize.
Had this wealth been in her power, how gladly would Hepzibah have bestowed it all upon her iron-hearted kinsman, to buy for Clifford the freedom and seclusion of the desolate old house!
But she believed that her brother's schemes were as destitute of actual substance and purpose as a child's pictures of its future life, while sitting in a little chair by its mother's knee.
Clifford had none but shadowy gold at his command; and it was not the stuff to satisfy Judge Pyncheon! Was there no help in their extremity?
It seemed strange that there should be none, with a city round about her.
Might and wrong combined, like iron magnetized, are endowed with irresistible attraction.
The Judge, on one side!
And who, on the other?
Little Phoebe Pyncheon would at once have lighted up the whole scene, if not by any available suggestion, yet simply by the warm vivacity of her character.
The idea of the artist occurred to Hepzibah. Young and unknown, mere vagrant adventurer as he was, she had been conscious of a force in Holgrave which might well adapt him to be the champion of a crisis.
A book, face downward, on the table, a roll of manuscript, a half-written sheet, a newspaper, some tools of his present occupation, and several rejected daguerreotypes, conveyed an impression as if he were close at hand.
Fate stared her in the face.
She turned back from her fruitless quest, with a heartsinking sense of disappointment. In all her years of seclusion, she had never felt, as now, what it was to be alone.
Those mists had gathered, as if to symbolize a great, brooding mass of human trouble, doubt, confusion, and chill indifference, between earth and the better regions.
Her faith was too weak; the prayer too heavy to be thus uplifted.
It fell back, a lump of lead, upon her heart.
Its vastness made it nothing.
Her hand, tremulous with the shrinking purpose which directed it, had smitten so feebly against the door that the sound could hardly have gone inward.
Nor was it to be wondered at.
She had struck with the entire force of her heart's vibration, communicating, by some subtile magnetism, her own terror to the summons.
Clifford would turn his face to the pillow, and cover his head beneath the bedclothes, like a startled child at midnight.
Shall I come in?" A silence. Two or three times, and more, Hepzibah repeated his name, without result; till, thinking her brother's sleep unwontedly profound, she undid the door, and entering, found the chamber vacant.
How could he have come forth, and when, without her knowledge?
Was it possible that, in spite of the stormy day, and worn out with the irksomeness within doors he had betaken himself to his customary haunt in the garden, and was now shivering under the cheerless shelter of the summer-house?
She hastily threw up a window, thrust forth her turbaned head and the half of her gaunt figure, and searched the whole garden through, as completely as her dim vision would allow.
She could see the interior of the summer-house, and its circular seat, kept moist by the droppings of the roof.
This could not be, however; he was not there; for, while Hepzibah was looking, a strange grimalkin stole forth from the very spot, and picked his way across the garden.
The cat stared up at her, like a detected thief or murderer, and, the next instant, took to flight.
No other living creature was visible in the garden.
Chanticleer and his family had either not left their roost, disheartened by the interminable rain, or had done the next wisest thing, by seasonably returning to it.
Hepzibah closed the window. But where was Clifford?
This figure of her wretched brother would go wandering through the city, attracting all eyes, and everybody's wonder and repugnance, like a ghost, the more to be shuddered at because visible at noontide.
To incur the ridicule of the younger crowd, that knew him not,-the harsher scorn and indignation of a few old men, who might recall his once familiar features!
To make of his ponderous sorrow a security!
To sink, with its leaden weight upon him, and never rise again! The horror of this last conception was too much for Hepzibah.
Even Jaffrey Pyncheon must help her now!
She hastened down the staircase, shrieking as she went. "Clifford is gone!" she cried.
I cannot find my brother.
Some harm will happen to him!" She threw open the parlor-door.
But, what with the shade of branches across the windows, and the smoke-blackened ceiling, and the dark oak-panelling of the walls, there was hardly so much daylight in the room that Hepzibah's imperfect sight could accurately distinguish the Judge's figure.
She was certain, however, that she saw him sitting in the ancestral arm-chair, near the centre of the floor, with his face somewhat averted, and looking towards a window.
His face was preternaturally pale; so deadly white, indeed, that, through all the glimmering indistinctness of the passageway, Hepzibah could discern his features, as if a light fell on them alone.
Their vivid and wild expression seemed likewise sufficient to illuminate them; it was an expression of scorn and mockery, coinciding with the emotions indicated by his gesture.
As Clifford stood on the threshold, partly turning back, he pointed his finger within the parlor, and shook it slowly as though he would have summoned, not Hepzibah alone, but the whole world, to gaze at some object inconceivably ridiculous.
This action, so ill-timed and extravagant,-accompanied, too, with a look that showed more like joy than any other kind of excitement,-compelled Hepzibah to dread that her stern kinsman's ominous visit had driven her poor brother to absolute insanity.
Nor could she otherwise account for the Judge's quiescent mood than by supposing him craftily on the watch, while Clifford developed these symptoms of a distracted mind. "Be quiet, Clifford!" whispered his sister, raising her hand to impress caution.
Oh, for Heaven's sake, be quiet!" "Let him be quiet!
What can he do better?" answered Clifford, with a still wilder gesture, pointing into the room which he had just quitted. "As for us, Hepzibah, we can dance now!-we can sing, laugh, play, do what we will!
The weight is gone, Hepzibah!
She was seized with a sudden intuition of some horrible thing.
She thrust herself past Clifford, and disappeared into the room; but almost immediately returned, with a cry choking in her throat.
We stay here too long!
Let us leave the old house to our cousin Jaffrey!
He will take good care of it!" Hepzibah now noticed that Clifford had on a cloak,-a garment of long ago,-in which he had constantly muffled himself during these days of easterly storm.
He beckoned with his hand, and intimated, so far as she could comprehend him, his purpose that they should go together from the house.
No matter how preposterous or insane, a purpose is a Godsend to them.
Hepzibah had reached this point.
For herself, she was like a person in a dream, when the will always sleeps. Clifford, ordinarily so destitute of this faculty, had found it in the tension of the crisis. "Why do you delay so?" cried he sharply.
Put on your cloak and hood, or whatever it pleases you to wear!
No matter what; you cannot look beautiful nor brilliant, my poor Hepzibah!
Take your purse, with money in it, and come along!" Hepzibah obeyed these instructions, as if nothing else were to be done or thought of.
Of course it was not real; no such black, easterly day as this had yet begun to be; Judge Pyncheon had not talked with, her.
I can bear it no longer!
I must wake up now!" But it came not, that awakening moment!
It was merely the initials of his own name, which, with somewhat of his characteristic grace about the forms of the letters, he had cut there when a boy.
The world's broad, bleak atmosphere was all so comfortless!
Such, indeed, is the impression which it makes on every new adventurer, even if he plunge into it while the warmest tide of life is bubbling through his veins.
What, then, must it have been to Hepzibah and Clifford,-so time-stricken as they were, yet so like children in their inexperience,-as they left the doorstep, and passed from beneath the wide shelter of the Pyncheon Elm!
They were wandering all abroad, on precisely such a pilgrimage as a child often meditates, to the world's end, with perhaps a sixpence and a biscuit in his pocket.
In Hepzibah's mind, there was the wretched consciousness of being adrift.
It was this, indeed, that gave him the control which he had at once, and so irresistibly, established over his movements.
It not a little resembled the exhilaration of wine.
Or, it might more fancifully be compared to a joyous piece of music, played with wild vivacity, but upon a disordered instrument.
What a treasure-trove to these venerable quidnuncs, could they have guessed the secret which Hepzibah and Clifford were carrying along with them!
But their two figures attracted hardly so much notice as that of a young girl, who passed at the same instant, and happened to raise her skirt a trifle too high above her ankles.
Had it been a sunny and cheerful day, they could hardly have gone through the streets without making themselves obnoxious to remark.
Could she have understood this fact, it would have brought her some little comfort; for, to all her other troubles,-strange to say!-there was added the womanish and old-maiden-like misery arising from a sense of unseemliness in her attire.
Any certainty would have been preferable to this.
She whispered to herself, again and again, "Am I awake?-Am I awake?" and sometimes exposed her face to the chill spatter of the wind, for the sake of its rude assurance that she was.
Whether it was Clifford's purpose, or only chance, had led them thither, they now found themselves passing beneath the arched entrance of a large structure of gray stone.
Within, there was a spacious breadth, and an airy height from floor to roof, now partially filled with smoke and steam, which eddied voluminously upward and formed a mimic cloud-region over their heads.
Without question or delay,-with the irresistible decision, if not rather to be called recklessness, which had so strangely taken possession of him, and through him of Hepzibah,-Clifford impelled her towards the cars, and assisted her to enter.
Is not this a dream?" "A dream, Hepzibah!" repeated he, almost laughing in her face.
On the contrary, I have never been awake before!" Meanwhile, looking from the window, they could see the world racing past them.
At one moment, they were rattling through a solitude; the next, a village had grown up around them; a few breaths more, and it had vanished, as if swallowed by an earthquake.
The spires of meeting-houses seemed set adrift from their foundations; the broad-based hills glided away.
It was novelty enough, indeed, that there were fifty human beings in close relation with them, under one long and narrow roof, and drawn onward by the same mighty influence that had taken their two selves into its grasp.
It seemed marvellous how all these people could remain so quietly in their seats, while so much noisy strength was at work in their behalf.
Some, with tickets in their hats (long travellers these, before whom lay a hundred miles of railroad), had plunged into the English scenery and adventures of pamphlet novels, and were keeping company with dukes and earls.
Others, whose briefer span forbade their devoting themselves to studies so abstruse, beguiled the little tedium of the way with penny-papers.
A party of girls, and one young man, on opposite sides of the car, found huge amusement in a game of ball.
Old acquaintances-for such they soon grew to be, in this rapid current of affairs-continually departed.
Here and there, amid the rumble and the tumult, sat one asleep.
Sleep; sport; business; graver or lighter study; and the common and inevitable movement onward!
It was life itself! Clifford's naturally poignant sympathies were all aroused.
He caught the color of what was passing about him, and threw it back more vividly than he received it, but mixed, nevertheless, with a lurid and portentous hue.
Hepzibah, on the other hand, felt herself more apart from human kind than even in the seclusion which she had just quitted. "You are not happy, Hepzibah!" said Clifford, apart, in a tone of reproach.
You are thinking of that dismal old house, and of Cousin Jaffrey"-here came the quake through him,-"and of Cousin Jaffrey sitting there, all by himself!
Take my advice,-follow my example,-and let such things slip aside.
Here we are, in the world, Hepzibah!-in the midst of life!-in the throng of our fellow beings!
Let you and I be happy!
As happy as that youth and those pretty girls, at their game of ball!" "Happy-" thought Hepzibah, bitterly conscious, at the word, of her dull and heavy heart, with the frozen pain in it,-"happy.
He is mad already; and, if I could once feel myself broad awake, I should go mad too!" If a fixed idea be madness, she was perhaps not remote from it.
Fast and far as they had rattled and clattered along the iron track, they might just as well, as regarded Hepzibah's mental images, have been passing up and down Pyncheon Street.
This one old house was everywhere!
It transported its great, lumbering bulk with more than railroad speed, and set itself phlegmatically down on whatever spot she glanced at.
The quality of Hepzibah's mind was too unmalleable to take new impressions so readily as Clifford's.
He had a winged nature; she was rather of the vegetable kind, and could hardly be kept long alive, if drawn up by the roots. Thus it happened that the relation heretofore existing between her brother and herself was changed.
At home, she was his guardian; here, Clifford had become hers, and seemed to comprehend whatever belonged to their new position with a singular rapidity of intelligence.
And how far?" "As far as that will carry us," said Clifford.
They may be said, in few and pithy words, to have ill served a poor purpose.
My impression is, that our wonderfully increased and still increasing facilities of locomotion are destined to bring us around again to the nomadic state.
You are aware, my dear sir,-you must have observed it in your own experience,-that all human progress is in a circle; or, to use a more accurate and beautiful figure, in an ascending spiral curve.
The past is but a coarse and sensual prophecy of the present and the future.
To apply this truth to the topic now under discussion.
This life possessed a charm which, ever since man quitted it, has vanished from existence.
And it typified something better than itself.
It had its drawbacks; such as hunger and thirst, inclement weather, hot sunshine, and weary and foot-blistering marches over barren and ugly tracts, that lay between the sites desirable for their fertility and beauty.
But in our ascending spiral, we escape all this. These railroads-could but the whistle be made musical, and the rumble and the jar got rid of-are positively the greatest blessing that the ages have wrought out for us.
They give us wings; they annihilate the toil and dust of pilgrimage; they spiritualize travel!
Transition being so facile, what can be any man's inducement to tarry in one spot?
Why, therefore, should he build a more cumbrous habitation than can readily be carried off with him?
The merry girls let their ball drop upon the floor, and gazed at him.
They said to themselves, perhaps, that, before his hair was gray and the crow's-feet tracked his temples, this now decaying man must have stamped the impress of his features on many a woman's heart.
But, alas! no woman's eye had seen his face while it was beautiful. "I should scarcely call it an improved state of things," observed Clifford's new acquaintance, "to live everywhere and nowhere!" "Would you not?" exclaimed Clifford, with singular energy.
Morbid influences, in a thousand-fold variety, gather about hearths, and pollute the life of households.
There is no such unwholesome atmosphere as that of an old home, rendered poisonous by one's defunct forefathers and relatives.
I speak of what I know.
Dead, but with open eyes!
He taints the whole house, as I remember it.
I could never flourish there, nor be happy, nor do nor enjoy what God meant me to do and enjoy." His face darkened, and seemed to contract, and shrivel itself up, and wither into age. "Never, sir!" he repeated.
I could never draw cheerful breath there!" "I should think not," said the old gentleman, eyeing Clifford earnestly, and rather apprehensively.
No longer ago than this morning, I was old.
I remember looking in the glass, and wondering at my own gray hair, and the wrinkles, many and deep, right across my brow, and the furrows down my cheeks, and the prodigious trampling of crow's-feet about my temples!
I could not bear it!
Age had no right to come!
But now do I look old?
You have my best wishes for it." "For Heaven's sake, dear Clifford, be quiet!" whispered his sister. "They think you mad." "Be quiet yourself, Hepzibah!" returned her brother.
No matter what they think!
For the first time in thirty years my thoughts gush up and find words ready for them.
Just imagine, for a moment, how much of human evil will crumble away, with this one change!
What we call real estate-the solid ground to build a house on-is the broad foundation on which nearly all the guilt of this world rests.
I do not speak wildly.
The world is growing too ethereal and spiritual to bear these enormities a great while longer.
To me, though, for a considerable period of time, I have lived chiefly in retirement, and know less of such things than most men,-even to me, the harbingers of a better era are unmistakable.
And it shall be flung wide open!" "A humbug, again!" cried the old gentleman, growing more and more testy at these glimpses of Clifford's metaphysics.
I should like to rap with a good stick on the empty pates of the dolts who circulate such nonsense!" "Then there is electricity,-the demon, the angel, the mighty physical power, the all-pervading intelligence!" exclaimed Clifford.
Is that a humbug, too?
Is it a fact-or have I dreamt it-that, by means of electricity, the world of matter has become a great nerve, vibrating thousands of miles in a breathless point of time?
Rather, the round globe is a vast head, a brain, instinct with intelligence!
A great thing, indeed, sir, particularly as regards the detection of bank-robbers and murderers." "I don't quite like it, in that point of view," replied Clifford.
A bank-robber, and what you call a murderer, likewise, has his rights, which men of enlightened humanity and conscience should regard in so much the more liberal spirit, because the bulk of society is prone to controvert their existence.
An almost spiritual medium, like the electric telegraph, should be consecrated to high, deep, joyful, and holy missions.
Or, when a good man has departed, his distant friend should be conscious of an electric thrill, as from the world of happy spirits, telling him 'Your dear friend is in bliss!
It puts them too miserably at disadvantage.
I can't see through you!" "No, I'll be bound you can't!" cried Clifford, laughing.
And yet, my dear sir, I am as transparent as the water of Maule's well!
We have flown far enough for once.
A moment afterwards, the train-with all the life of its interior, amid which Clifford had made himself so conspicuous an object-was gliding away in the distance, and rapidly lessening to a point which, in another moment, vanished.
The world had fled away from these two wanderers.
They gazed drearily about them.
Farther off was a farm-house, in the old style, as venerably black as the church, with a roof sloping downward from the three-story peak, to within a man's height of the ground.
There were the relics of a wood-pile, indeed, near the door, but with grass sprouting up among the chips and scattered logs.
The small rain-drops came down aslant; the wind was not turbulent, but sullen, and full of chilly moisture. Clifford shivered from head to foot.
The wild effervescence of his mood-which had so readily supplied thoughts, fantasies, and a strange aptitude of words, and impelled him to talk from the mere necessity of giving vent to this bubbling-up gush of ideas had entirely subsided.
A powerful excitement had given him energy and vivacity.
Its operation over, he forthwith began to sink. "You must take the lead now, Hepzibah!" murmured he, with a torpid and reluctant utterance.
Do with me as you will!
She knelt down upon the platform where they were standing and lifted her clasped hands to the sky.
Have mercy on us!" XVIII. Governor Pyncheon Judge Pyncheon, while his two relatives have fled away with such ill-considered haste, still sits in the old parlor, keeping house, as the familiar phrase is, in the absence of its ordinary occupants.
He holds his watch in his left hand, but clutched in such a manner that you cannot see the dial-plate.
How profound a fit of meditation!
You must hold your own breath, to satisfy yourself whether he breathes at all.
You hear the ticking of his watch; his breath you do not hear.
A most refreshing slumber, doubtless!
And yet, the Judge cannot be asleep.
A cautious man is proverbially said to sleep with one eye open.
But not with both; for this were heedlessness!
Judge Pyncheon cannot be asleep. It is odd, however, that a gentleman so burdened with engagements,-and noted, too, for punctuality,-should linger thus in an old lonely mansion, which he has never seemed very fond of visiting.
The oaken chair, to be sure, may tempt him with its roominess.
It is, indeed, a spacious, and, allowing for the rude age that fashioned it, a moderately easy seat, with capacity enough, at all events, and offering no restraint to the Judge's breadth of beam.
A bigger man might find ample accommodation in it.
His ancestor, now pictured upon the wall, with all his English beef about him, used hardly to present a front extending from elbow to elbow of this chair, or a base that would cover its whole cushion.
Yes! in a score of drawing-rooms he would be more than welcome.
For the Judge is a prosperous man.
It is enough! Still lingering in the old chair!
And have not the bank directors a meeting at which it was the Judge's purpose to be present, and his office to preside?
Indeed they have; and the hour is noted on a card, which is, or ought to be, in Judge Pyncheon's right vest-pocket.
Let him go thither, and loll at ease upon his moneybags!
He has lounged long enough in the old chair! This was to have been such a busy day.
In the first place, the interview with Clifford.
Why, Judge, it is already two hours, by your own undeviatingly accurate chronometer. Glance your eye down at it and see!
Ah; he will not give himself the trouble either to bend his head, or elevate his hand, so as to bring the faithful time-keeper within his range of vision!
Time, all at once, appears to have become a matter of no moment with the Judge! And has he forgotten all the other items of his memoranda?
Possibly, indeed, the sale may have been postponed till fairer weather.
If so, will the Judge make it convenient to be present, and favor the auctioneer with his bid, on the proximate occasion? The next affair was to buy a horse for his own driving.
The one heretofore his favorite stumbled, this very morning, on the road to town, and must be at once discarded.
And if he have time, amid the press of more urgent matters, he must take measures for the renewal of Mrs. Pyncheon's tombstone, which, the sexton tells him, has fallen on its marble face, and is cracked quite in twain.
It is better, at least, than if she had never needed any!
The next item on his list was to give orders for some fruit-trees, of a rare variety, to be deliverable at his country-seat in the ensuing autumn.
Yes, buy them, by all means; and may the peaches be luscious in your mouth, Judge Pyncheon!
After this comes something more important.
A committee of his political party has besought him for a hundred or two of dollars, in addition to his previous disbursements, towards carrying on the fall campaign.
The Judge is a patriot; the fate of the country is staked on the November election; and besides, as will be shadowed forth in another paragraph, he has no trifling stake of his own in the same great game.
He will do what the committee asks; nay, he will be liberal beyond their expectations; they shall have a check for five hundred dollars, and more anon, if it be needed.
A decayed widow, whose husband was Judge Pyncheon's early friend, has laid her case of destitution before him, in a very moving letter.
She and her fair daughter have scarcely bread to eat.
About what, for Heaven's sake?
Why, it is rather difficult to describe the symptoms.
No matter what it was.
The doctor probably would smile at the statement of such trifles to his professional ear; the Judge would smile in his turn; and meeting one another's eyes, they would enjoy a hearty laugh together!
But a fig for medical advice.
The Judge will never need it. Pray, pray, Judge Pyncheon, look at your watch, Now!
What-not a glance! It is within ten minutes of the dinner hour!
It surely cannot have slipped your memory that the dinner of to-day is to be the most important, in its consequences, of all the dinners you ever ate.
No public dinner this, however.
Nothing in the way of French cookery, but an excellent dinner, nevertheless.
Real turtle, we understand, and salmon, tautog, canvas-backs, pig, English mutton, good roast beef, or dainties of that serious kind, fit for substantial country gentlemen, as these honorable persons mostly are.
The delicacies of the season, in short, and flavored by a brand of old Madeira which has been the pride of many seasons.
It drives away the heart-ache, and substitutes no head-ache!
Could the Judge but quaff a glass, it might enable him to shake off the unaccountable lethargy which (for the ten intervening minutes, and five to boot, are already past) has made him such a laggard at this momentous dinner.
It would all but revive a dead man!
Would you like to sip it now, Judge Pyncheon? Alas, this dinner.
Have you really forgotten its true object?
Then let us whisper it, that you may start at once out of the oaken chair, which really seems to be enchanted, like the one in Comus, or that in which Moll Pitcher imprisoned your own grandfather.
But ambition is a talisman more powerful than witchcraft.
Start up, then, and, hurrying through the streets, burst in upon the company, that they may begin before the fish is spoiled!
They wait for you; and it is little for your interest that they should wait.
These gentlemen-need you be told it?-have assembled, not without purpose, from every quarter of the State.
They are practised politicians, every man of them, and skilled to adjust those preliminary measures which steal from the people, without its knowledge, the power of choosing its own rulers.
The popular voice, at the next gubernatorial election, though loud as thunder, will be really but an echo of what these gentlemen shall speak, under their breath, at your friend's festive board.
They meet to decide upon their candidate.
This little knot of subtle schemers will control the convention, and, through it, dictate to the party.
The meed for which you have toiled, and fought, and climbed, and crept, is ready for your grasp!
Be present at this dinner!-drink a glass or two of that noble wine!-make your pledges in as low a whisper as you will!-and you rise up from table virtually governor of the glorious old State!
Governor Pyncheon of Massachusetts! And is there no potent and exhilarating cordial in a certainty like this?
We have all heard of King Log; but, in these jostling times, one of that royal kindred will hardly win the race for an elective chief-magistracy. Well; it is absolutely too late for dinner!
Turtle, salmon, tautog, woodcock, boiled turkey, South-Down mutton, pig, roast-beef, have vanished, or exist only in fragments, with lukewarm potatoes, and gravies crusted over with cold fat.
The Judge, had he done nothing else, would have achieved wonders with his knife and fork.
It was he, you know, of whom it used to be said, in reference to his ogre-like appetite, that his Creator made him a great animal, but that the dinner-hour made him a great beast.
Persons of his large sensual endowments must claim indulgence, at their feeding-time.
But, for once, the Judge is entirely too late for dinner!
Too late, we fear, even to join the party at their wine!
The guests are warm and merry; they have given up the Judge; and, concluding that the Free-Soilers have him, they will fix upon another candidate.
Were our friend now to stalk in among them, with that wide-open stare, at once wild and stolid, his ungenial presence would be apt to change their cheer.
Neither would it be seemly in Judge Pyncheon, generally so scrupulous in his attire, to show himself at a dinner-table with that crimson stain upon his shirt-bosom.
By the bye, how came it there?
There, after a glass of brandy and water, and a mutton-chop, a beefsteak, a broiled fowl, or some such hasty little dinner and supper all in one, he had better spend the evening by the fireside.
He must toast his slippers a long while, in order to get rid of the chilliness which the air of this vile old house has sent curdling through his veins. Up, therefore, Judge Pyncheon, up!
You have lost a day.
But to-morrow will be here anon.
Will you rise, betimes, and make the most of it? To-morrow.
We, that are alive, may rise betimes to-morrow.
As for him that has died to-day, his morrow will be the resurrection morn. Meanwhile the twilight is glooming upward out of the corners of the room.
The gloom has not entered from without; it has brooded here all day, and now, taking its own inevitable time, will possess itself of everything.
The Judge's face, indeed, rigid and singularly white, refuses to melt into this universal solvent.
Fainter and fainter grows the light.
It is as if another double-handful of darkness had been scattered through the air.
Now it is no longer gray, but sable.
There is still a faint appearance at the window; neither a glow, nor a gleam, nor a glimmer,-any phrase of light would express something far brighter than this doubtful perception, or sense, rather, that there is a window there.
No!-yes!-not quite! And there is still the swarthy whiteness,-we shall venture to marry these ill-agreeing words,-the swarthy whiteness of Judge Pyncheon's face.
The features are all gone: there is only the paleness of them left.
And how looks it now?
An infinite, inscrutable blackness has annihilated sight!
All crumbled away from us; and we, adrift in chaos, may hearken to the gusts of homeless wind, that go sighing and murmuring about in quest of what was once a world! Is there no other sound?
One other, and a fearful one.
It is the ticking of the Judge's watch, which, ever since Hepzibah left the room in search of Clifford, he has been holding in his hand.
That puff of the breeze was louder.
It had a tone unlike the dreary and sullen one which has bemoaned itself, and afflicted all mankind with miserable sympathy, for five days past.
The wind has veered about!
It now comes boisterously from the northwest, and, taking hold of the aged framework of the Seven Gables, gives it a shake, like a wrestler that would try strength with his antagonist.
Another and another sturdy tussle with the blast!
A rumbling kind of a bluster roars behind the fire-board.
A door has slammed above stairs.
A window, perhaps, has been left open, or else is driven in by an unruly gust.
Would that we were not an attendant spirit here!
This clamor of the wind through the lonely house; the Judge's quietude, as he sits invisible; and that pertinacious ticking of his watch! As regards Judge Pyncheon's invisibility, however, that matter will soon be remedied.
The northwest wind has swept the sky clear.
The window is distinctly seen.
Through its panes, moreover, we dimly catch the sweep of the dark, clustering foliage outside, fluttering with a constant irregularity of movement, and letting in a peep of starlight, now here, now there.
Oftener than any other object, these glimpses illuminate the Judge's face.
They play over the Judge's figure and show that he has not stirred throughout the hours of darkness.
They follow the shadows, in changeful sport, across his unchanging features.
They gleam upon his watch.
The Pyncheon of two centuries ago, in common with most of his contemporaries, professed his full belief in spiritual ministrations, although reckoning them chiefly of a malignant character.
The Pyncheon of to-night, who sits in yonder arm-chair, believes in no such nonsense.
Such, at least, was his creed, some few hours since.
In fact, these tales are too absurd to bristle even childhood's hair.
What sense, meaning, or moral, for example, such as even ghost-stories should be susceptible of, can be traced in the ridiculous legend, that, at midnight, all the dead Pyncheons are bound to assemble in this parlor? And, pray, for what?
Why, to see whether the portrait of their ancestor still keeps its place upon the wall, in compliance with his testamentary directions!
Is it worth while to come out of their graves for that? We are tempted to make a little sport with the idea.
Ghost-stories are hardly to be treated seriously any longer.
He looks up at the portrait; a thing of no substance, gazing at its own painted image!
The picture is still there.
The purpose of his brain has been kept sacred thus long after the man himself has sprouted up in graveyard grass.
See! he lifts his ineffectual hand, and tries the frame.
But is that a smile?-is it not, rather a frown of deadly import, that darkens over the shadow of his features?
The stout Colonel is dissatisfied!
So decided is his look of discontent as to impart additional distinctness to his features; through which, nevertheless, the moonlight passes, and flickers on the wall beyond. Something has strangely vexed the ancestor!
With a grim shake of the head, he turns away.
Here come other Pyncheons, the whole tribe, in their half a dozen generations, jostling and elbowing one another, to reach the picture.
What do these ghostly people seek?
A mother lifts her child, that his little hands may touch it!
There is evidently a mystery about the picture, that perplexes these poor Pyncheons when they ought to be at rest.
We distinguish an unlooked-for figure in our visionary scene.
Were we to meet this figure at noonday, we should greet him as young Jaffrey Pyncheon, the Judge's only surviving child, who has been spending the last two years in foreign travel.
If still in life, how comes his shadow hither?
If dead, what a misfortune!
The old Pyncheon property, together with the great estate acquired by the young man's father, would devolve on whom? On poor, foolish Clifford, gaunt Hepzibah, and rustic little Phoebe!
But another and a greater marvel greets us!
Can we believe our eyes?
Is it the Judge, or no?
How can it be Judge Pyncheon?
We discern his figure, as plainly as the flickering moonbeams can show us anything, still seated in the oaken chair!
We were betrayed into this brief extravagance by the quiver of the moonbeams; they dance hand-in-hand with shadows, and are reflected in the looking-glass, which, you are aware, is always a kind of window or doorway into the spiritual world.
We needed relief, moreover, from our too long and exclusive contemplation of that figure in the chair.
This wild wind, too, has tossed our thoughts into strange confusion, but without tearing them away from their one determined centre.
Yonder leaden Judge sits immovably upon our soul.
Will he never stir again?
We shall go mad unless he stirs!
Ha! what has startled the nimble little mouse?
It is the visage of grimalkin, outside of the window, where he appears to have posted himself for a deliberate watch.
This grimalkin has a very ugly look.
Is it a cat watching for a mouse, or the devil for a human soul?
Would we could scare him from the window! Thank Heaven, the night is well-nigh past!
The moonbeams have no longer so silvery a gleam, nor contrast so strongly with the blackness of the shadows among which they fall.
They are paler now; the shadows look gray, not black.
The boisterous wind is hushed.
But the great world-clock of Time still keeps its beat.
The dreary night-for, oh, how dreary seems its haunted waste, behind us!-gives place to a fresh, transparent, cloudless morn. Blessed, blessed radiance!
The daybeam-even what little of it finds its way into this always dusky parlor-seems part of the universal benediction, annulling evil, and rendering all goodness possible, and happiness attainable.
Will Judge Pyncheon now rise up from his chair? Will he go forth, and receive the early sunbeams on his brow?
Will he begin this new day,-which God has smiled upon, and blessed, and given to mankind,-will he begin it with better purposes than the many that have been spent amiss?
Or are all the deep-laid schemes of yesterday as stubborn in his heart, and as busy in his brain, as ever? In this latter case, there is much to do.
Will the Judge still insist with Hepzibah on the interview with Clifford?
Will he buy a safe, elderly gentleman's horse?
Will he persuade the purchaser of the old Pyncheon property to relinquish the bargain in his favor?
Will he see his family physician, and obtain a medicine that shall preserve him, to be an honor and blessing to his race, until the utmost term of patriarchal longevity?
And all these great purposes accomplished, will he walk the streets again, with that dog-day smile of elaborate benevolence, sultry enough to tempt flies to come and buzz in it?
Will he bear about with him,-no odious grin of feigned benignity, insolent in its pretence, and loathsome in its falsehood,-but the tender sadness of a contrite heart, broken, at last, beneath its own weight of sin?
For it is our belief, whatever show of honor he may have piled upon it, that there was heavy sin at the base of this man's being. Rise up, Judge Pyncheon!
The morning sunshine glimmers through the foliage, and, beautiful and holy as it is, shuns not to kindle up your face.
Rise up, thou subtle, worldly, selfish, iron-hearted hypocrite, and make thy choice whether still to be subtle, worldly, selfish, iron-hearted, and hypocritical, or to tear these sins out of thy nature, though they bring the lifeblood with them!
The Avenger is upon thee!
Rise up, before it be too late! What!
Thou art not stirred by this last appeal?
Canst thou not brush the fly away? Art thou too sluggish?
Thou man, that hadst so many busy projects yesterday!
Art thou too weak, that wast so powerful?
Not brush away a fly?
Nay, then, we give thee up! And hark! the shop-bell rings.
Nature made sweet amends, that morning, for the five unkindly days which had preceded it.
It would have been enough to live for, merely to look up at the wide benediction of the sky, or as much of it as was visible between the houses, genial once more with sunshine.
Every object was agreeable, whether to be gazed at in the breadth, or examined more minutely.
Vegetable productions, of whatever kind, seemed more than negatively happy, in the juicy warmth and abundance of their life.
The Pyncheon Elm, throughout its great circumference, was all alive, and full of the morning sun and a sweet-tempered little breeze, which lingered within this verdant sphere, and set a thousand leafy tongues a-whispering all at once.
This aged tree appeared to have suffered nothing from the gale.
Presented at the door, it would have been a symbol of his right to enter, and be made acquainted with all the secrets of the house.
Its windows gleamed cheerfully in the slanting sunlight.
It was the great tuft of flowers,-weeds, you would have called them, only a week ago,-the tuft of crimson-spotted flowers, in the angle between the two front gables.
The old people used to give them the name of Alice's Posies, in remembrance of fair Alice Pyncheon, who was believed to have brought their seeds from Italy.
He was going his matutinal rounds to collect cabbage-leaves, turnip-tops, potato-skins, and the miscellaneous refuse of the dinner-pot, which the thrifty housewives of the neighborhood were accustomed to put aside, as fit only to feed a pig.
She must have had a dinner yesterday,-no question of that! She always has one, nowadays.
So where's the pot-liquor and potato-skins, I ask?
Shall I knock, and see if she's stirring yet?
If little Phoebe was about the house, I should not mind knocking; but Miss Hepzibah, likely as not, would scowl down at me out of the window, and look cross, even if she felt pleasantly.
So, I'll come back at noon." With these reflections, the old man was shutting the gate of the little back-yard.
Do you hear nobody stirring?" "Not a soul," said the man of patches.
Tis barely half an hour past sunrise, yet.
But I'm really glad to see you, Mr. Holgrave!
There's a strange, lonesome look about this side of the house; so that my heart misgave me, somehow or other, and I felt as if there was nobody alive in it.
Well, and did the wind keep you awake last night?" "It did, indeed!" answered the artist, smiling.
If I were a believer in ghosts,-and I don't quite know whether I am or not,-I should have concluded that all the old Pyncheons were running riot in the lower rooms, especially in Miss Hepzibah's part of the house.
But it is very quiet now." "Yes, Miss Hepzibah will be apt to over-sleep herself, after being disturbed, all night, with the racket," said Uncle Venner.
But it would be odd, now, wouldn't it, if the Judge had taken both his cousins into the country along with him?
I saw him go into the shop yesterday." "At what hour?" inquired Holgrave. "Oh, along in the forenoon," said the old man.
I must go my rounds, and so must my wheelbarrow.
But I'll be back here at dinner-time; for my pig likes a dinner as well as a breakfast.
No meal-time, and no sort of victuals, ever seems to come amiss to my pig. Good morning to you!
Her face glowed with fire-heat, and, it being a pretty warm morning, she bubbled and hissed, as it were, as if all a-fry with chimney-warmth, and summer-warmth, and the warmth of her own corpulent velocity.
She tried the shop-door; it was fast.
These are what she calls gentlefolk's airs, I suppose!
She opened the window, and addressed the impatient applicant. "You'll find nobody there, Mrs. Gubbins." "But I must and will find somebody here!" cried Mrs. Gubbins, inflicting another outrage on the bell.
I want a half-pound of pork, to fry some first-rate flounders for Mr. Gubbins's breakfast; and, lady or not, Old Maid Pyncheon shall get up and serve me with it!" "But do hear reason, Mrs. Gubbins!" responded the lady opposite.
She, and her brother too, have both gone to their cousin's, Judge Pyncheon's at his country-seat.
There's not a soul in the house, but that young daguerreotype-man that sleeps in the north gable.
I saw old Hepzibah and Clifford go away yesterday; and a queer couple of ducks they were, paddling through the mud-puddles!
That's the main reason of her setting up a cent-shop." "I know that well enough," said the neighbor.
But they're gone,-that's one thing certain.
And who but a blood relation, that couldn't help himself, I ask you, would take in that awful-tempered old maid, and that dreadful Clifford?
That's it, you may be sure." Mrs. Gubbins took her departure, still brimming over with hot wrath against the absent Hepzibah.
For another half-hour, or, perhaps, considerably more, there was almost as much quiet on the outside of the house as within.
But it would not open.
Again and again, however, and half a dozen other agains, with the inexorable pertinacity of a child intent upon some object important to itself, did he renew his efforts for admittance.
He had, doubtless, set his heart upon an elephant; or, possibly, with Hamlet, he meant to eat a crocodile.
In response to his more violent attacks, the bell gave, now and then, a moderate tinkle, but could not be stirred into clamor by any exertion of the little fellow's childish and tiptoe strength.
There's another cent-shop round the corner.
Tis very strange, Dixey," added he to his companion, "what's become of all these Pyncheon's!
He's a kind of person, they say, that seldom breaks his habits, or stays out o' nights." "Oh, he'll turn up safe enough!" said Dixey.
And as for Old Maid Pyncheon, take my word for it, she has run in debt, and gone off from her creditors.
I foretold, you remember, the first morning she set up shop, that her devilish scowl would frighten away customers.
They couldn't stand it!" "I never thought she'd make it go," remarked his friend.
This business of cent-shops is overdone among the women-folks.
My wife tried it, and lost five dollars on her outlay!" "Poor business!" said Dixey, shaking his head.
Poor business!" In the course of the morning, there were various other attempts to open a communication with the supposed inhabitants of this silent and impenetrable mansion.
She can't be gone away!
In fifteen years that I have driven my cart through Pyncheon Street, I've never known her to be away from home; though often enough, to be sure, a man might knock all day without bringing her to the door.
However it might have happened, it was the fact.
Through the passage-way there was a dark vista into the lighter but still obscure interior of the parlor.
Why, if a hog hadn't more manners, I'd stick him!
The pleasant face of Phoebe-and doubtless, too, the liberal recompense which she had flung him-still dwelt in his remembrance.
His expressive features kindled up, as he recognized the spot where this trifling incident of his erratic life had chanced.
He entered the neglected yard (now wilder than ever, with its growth of hog-weed and burdock), stationed himself on the doorstep of the main entrance, and, opening his show-box, began to play.
The throng of children stood near; some on the sidewalk; some within the yard; two or three establishing themselves on the very door-step; and one squatting on the threshold.
Meanwhile, the locust kept singing in the great old Pyncheon Elm. "I don't hear anybody in the house," said one of the children to another.
The monkey won't pick up anything here." "There is somebody at home," affirmed the urchin on the threshold.
I heard a step!" Still the young Italian's eye turned sidelong upward; and it really seemed as if the touch of genuine, though slight and almost playful, emotion communicated a juicier sweetness to the dry, mechanical process of his minstrelsy.
These wanderers are readily responsive to any natural kindness-be it no more than a smile, or a word itself not understood, but only a warmth in it-which befalls them on the roadside of life.
They remember these things, because they are the little enchantments which, for the instant,-for the space that reflects a landscape in a soap-bubble,-build up a home about them.
Neither could he be willing to depart without again beholding Clifford, whose sensibility, like Phoebe's smile, had talked a kind of heart's language to the foreigner.
He repeated all his music over and over again, until his auditors were getting weary.
So were the little wooden people in his show-box, and the monkey most of all.
There was no response, save the singing of the locust. "No children live in this house," said a schoolboy, at last.
Nobody lives here but an old maid and an old man.
Why don't you go along?" "You fool, you, why do you tell him?" whispered a shrewd little Yankee, caring nothing for the music, but a good deal for the cheap rate at which it was had.
Let him play as he likes!
If there's nobody to pay him, that's his own lookout!" Once more, however, the Italian ran over his round of melodies.
To the common observer-who could understand nothing of the case, except the music and the sunshine on the hither side of the door-it might have been amusing to watch the pertinacity of the street-performer.
Will he succeed at last?
Will that stubborn door be suddenly flung open?
Was ever before such a grinding out of jigs and waltzes, where nobody was in the cue to dance? Yes, very often.
This contrast, or intermingling of tragedy with mirth, happens daily, hourly, momently.
I say, you young French fellow!" called out one of them,-"come away from that doorstep, and go somewhere else with your nonsense!
The Pyncheon family live there; and they are in great trouble, just about this time.
They don't feel musical to-day.
It is reported all over town that Judge Pyncheon, who owns the house, has been murdered; and the city marshal is going to look into the matter.
He picked it up, and perceiving something written in pencil, gave it to the man to read.
In fact, it was an engraved card of Judge Pyncheon's with certain pencilled memoranda on the back, referring to various businesses which it had been his purpose to transact during the preceding day.
It formed a prospective epitome of the day's history; only that affairs had not turned out altogether in accordance with the programme.
The card must have been lost from the Judge's vest-pocket in his preliminary attempt to gain access by the main entrance of the house.
Though well soaked with rain, it was still partially legible. "Look here; Dixey!" cried the man.
This has something to do with Judge Pyncheon.
See!-here's his name printed on it; and here, I suppose, is some of his handwriting." "Let's go to the city marshal with it!" said Dixey.
It may give him just the clew he wants.
After all," whispered he in his companion's ear, "it would be no wonder if the Judge has gone into that door and never come out again!
A certain cousin of his may have been at his old tricks.
And Old Maid Pyncheon having got herself in debt by the cent-shop,-and the Judge's pocket-book being well filled,-and bad blood amongst them already!
Put all these things together and see what they make!" "Hush, hush!" whispered the other.
It seems like a sin to be the first to speak of such a thing.
But I think, with you, that we had better go to the city marshal." "Yes, yes!" said Dixey.
Well!-I always said there was something devilish in that woman's scowl!" The men wheeled about, accordingly, and retraced their steps up the street.
The Italian, also, made the best of his way off, with a parting glance up at the arched window.
Their susceptible nerves took an indefinite alarm from what they had overheard.
Looking back at the grotesque peaks and shadowy angles of the old mansion, they fancied a gloom diffused about it which no brightness of the sunshine could dispel.
An imaginary Hepzibah scowled and shook her finger at them, from several windows at the same moment.
An imaginary Clifford-for (and it would have deeply wounded him to know it) he had always been a horror to these small people-stood behind the unreal Hepzibah, making awful gestures, in a faded dressing-gown.
Children are even more apt, if possible, than grown people, to catch the contagion of a panic terror.
Yet we feel it to be a questionable venture, even for Phoebe, at this juncture, to cross the threshold of the Seven Gables.
Is her healthful presence potent enough to chase away the crowd of pale, hideous, and sinful phantoms, that have gained admittance there since her departure?
Finding it fastened, she knocked.
A reverberation came from the emptiness within.
She knocked again, and a third time; and, listening intently, fancied that the floor creaked, as if Hepzibah were coming, with her ordinary tiptoe movement, to admit her.
It appeared to call her name.
Immediately on her entering the garden gate, the family of hens half ran, half flew to meet her; while a strange grimalkin, which was prowling under the parlor window, took to his heels, clambered hastily over the fence, and vanished.
The arbor was vacant, and its floor, table, and circular bench were still damp, and bestrewn with twigs and the disarray of the past storm.
The growth of the garden seemed to have got quite out of bounds; the weeds had taken advantage of Phoebe's absence, and the long-continued rain, to run rampant over the flowers and kitchen-vegetables.
Nevertheless, with indistinct misgivings of something amiss, and apprehensions to which she could not give shape, she approached the door that formed the customary communication between the house and garden.
It was secured within, like the two which she had already tried.
She was not at first aware by whom she had been admitted.
Before her eyes had adapted themselves to the obscurity, a hand grasped her own with a firm but gentle and warm pressure, thus imparting a welcome which caused her heart to leap and thrill with an indefinable shiver of enjoyment.
She felt herself drawn along, not towards the parlor, but into a large and unoccupied apartment, which had formerly been the grand reception-room of the Seven Gables.
The subtile, intuitive communication, or, rather, the vague and formless impression of something to be told, had made her yield unresistingly to his impulse.
And yet, as he felt the necessity of responding to her look of inquiry, the smile disappeared. "I ought not to rejoice that you have come, Phoebe," said he.
We meet at a strange moment!" "What has happened!" she exclaimed.
Why is the house so deserted? Where are Hepzibah and Clifford?" "Gone!
I cannot imagine where they are!" answered Holgrave.
We are alone in the house!" "Hepzibah and Clifford gone?" cried Phoebe.
And why have you brought me into this room, instead of the parlor?
Ah, something terrible has happened!
I must run and see!" "No, no, Phoebe!" said Holgrave holding her back.
It is as I have told you.
They are gone, and I know not whither.
A terrible event has, indeed happened, but not to them, nor, as I undoubtingly believe, through any agency of theirs.
If I read your character rightly, Phoebe," he continued, fixing his eyes on hers with stern anxiety, intermixed with tenderness, "gentle as you are, and seeming to have your sphere among common things, you yet possess remarkable strength.
You have wonderful poise, and a faculty which, when tested, will prove itself capable of dealing with matters that fall far out of the ordinary rule." "Oh, no, I am very weak!" replied Phoebe, trembling.
But tell me what has happened!" "You are strong!" persisted Holgrave.
You must be both strong and wise; for I am all astray, and need your counsel.
It may be you can suggest the one right thing to do!" "Tell me!-tell me!" said Phoebe, all in a tremble.
It oppresses,-it terrifies me,-this mystery!
Anything else I can bear!" The artist hesitated.
Notwithstanding what he had just said, and most sincerely, in regard to the self-balancing power with which Phoebe impressed him, it still seemed almost wicked to bring the awful secret of yesterday to her knowledge.
It was like dragging a hideous shape of death into the cleanly and cheerful space before a household fire, where it would present all the uglier aspect, amid the decorousness of everything about it.
Yet it could not be concealed from her; she must needs know it. "Phoebe," said he, "do you remember this?
You have shown it to me before!" "But here is the same face, taken within this half-hour" said the artist, presenting her with another miniature.
I had just finished it when I heard you at the door." "This is death!" shuddered Phoebe, turning very pale.
Judge Pyncheon dead!" "Such as there represented," said Holgrave, "he sits in the next room. The Judge is dead, and Clifford and Hepzibah have vanished!
On returning to my solitary chamber, last evening, I noticed no light, either in the parlor, or Hepzibah's room, or Clifford's; no stir nor footstep about the house.
This morning, there was the same death-like quiet.
From my window, I overheard the testimony of a neighbor, that your relatives were seen leaving the house in the midst of yesterday's storm.
A rumor reached me, too, of Judge Pyncheon being missed.
A feeling which I cannot describe-an indefinite sense of some catastrophe, or consummation-impelled me to make my way into this part of the house, where I discovered what you see.
It is terrible to be here alone!" "But Clifford!" suggested the artist.
We must consider what is best to be done in their behalf.
It is a wretched fatality that they should have disappeared!
Their flight will throw the worst coloring over this event of which it is susceptible.
Yet how easy is the explanation, to those who know them!
Bewildered and terror-stricken by the similarity of this death to a former one, which was attended with such disastrous consequences to Clifford, they have had no idea but of removing themselves from the scene.
Had Hepzibah but shrieked aloud,-had Clifford flung wide the door, and proclaimed Judge Pyncheon's death,-it would have been, however awful in itself, an event fruitful of good consequences to them.
Old Maule's prophecy was probably founded on a knowledge of this physical predisposition in the Pyncheon race.
Now, there is a minute and almost exact similarity in the appearances connected with the death that occurred yesterday and those recorded of the death of Clifford's uncle thirty years ago.
His own death, so like that former one, yet attended by none of those suspicious circumstances, seems the stroke of God upon him, at once a punishment for his wickedness, and making plain the innocence of Clifford.
But this flight,-it distorts everything!
He may be in concealment, near at hand.
Could we but bring him back before the discovery of the Judge's death, the evil might be rectified." "We must not hide this thing a moment longer!" said Phoebe.
It is dreadful to keep it so closely in our hearts.
God will make it manifest!
Let us throw open the doors, and call all the neighborhood to see the truth!" "You are right, Phoebe," rejoined Holgrave.
Doubtless you are right." Yet the artist did not feel the horror, which was proper to Phoebe's sweet and order-loving character, at thus finding herself at issue with society, and brought in contact with an event that transcended ordinary rules.
Neither was he in haste, like her, to betake himself within the precincts of common life.
On the contrary, he gathered a wild enjoyment,-as it were, a flower of strange beauty, growing in a desolate spot, and blossoming in the wind,-such a flower of momentary happiness he gathered from his present position.
It separated Phoebe and himself from the world, and bound them to each other, by their exclusive knowledge of Judge Pyncheon's mysterious death, and the counsel which they were forced to hold respecting it.
Meanwhile, all the circumstances of their situation seemed to draw them together; they were like two children who go hand in hand, pressing closely to one another's side, through a shadow-haunted passage.
The image of awful Death, which filled the house, held them united by his stiffened grasp. These influences hastened the development of emotions that might not otherwise have flowered so.
Possibly, indeed, it had been Holgrave's purpose to let them die in their undeveloped germs.
Why do we delay so?" asked Phoebe.
This secret takes away my breath!
Let us throw open the doors!" "In all our lives there can never come another moment like this!" said Holgrave.
Phoebe, is it all terror?-nothing but terror?
A dark, cold, miserable hour!
The presence of yonder dead man threw a great black shadow over everything; he made the universe, so far as my perception could reach, a scene of guilt and of retribution more dreadful than the guilt.
The sense of it took away my youth.
I never hoped to feel young again!
The world looked strange, wild, evil, hostile; my past life, so lonesome and dreary; my future, a shapeless gloom, which I must mould into gloomy shapes!
But, Phoebe, you crossed the threshold; and hope, warmth, and joy came in with you!
The black moment became at once a blissful one.
It must not pass without the spoken word.
I love you!" "How can you love a simple girl like me?" asked Phoebe, compelled by his earnestness to speak.
You have many, many thoughts, with which I should try in vain to sympathize.
And I,-I, too,-I have tendencies with which you would sympathize as little.
But I have not scope enough to make you happy." "You are my only possibility of happiness!" answered Holgrave.
I have no faith in it, except as you bestow it on me!" "And then-I am afraid!" continued Phoebe, shrinking towards Holgrave, even while she told him so frankly the doubts with which he affected her.
You will lead me out of my own quiet path.
You will make me strive to follow you where it is pathless.
It is not my nature.
I shall sink down and perish!" "Ah, Phoebe!" exclaimed Holgrave, with almost a sigh, and a smile that was burdened with thought. "It will be far otherwise than as you forebode.
The world owes all its onward impulses to men ill at ease.
The happy man inevitably confines himself within ancient limits.
Your poise will be more powerful than any oscillating tendency of mine." "I would not have it so!" said Phoebe earnestly. "Do you love me?" asked Holgrave.
If we love one another, the moment has room for nothing more.
Let us pause upon it, and be satisfied.
Do you love me, Phoebe?" "You look into my heart," said she, letting her eyes drop.
You know I love you!" And it was in this hour, so full of doubt and awe, that the one miracle was wrought, without which every human existence is a blank.
The bliss which makes all things true, beautiful, and holy shone around this youth and maiden.
They were conscious of nothing sad nor old.
They transfigured the earth, and made it Eden again, and themselves the two first dwellers in it.
The dead man, so close beside them, was forgotten.
At such a crisis, there is no death; for immortality is revealed anew, and embraces everything in its hallowed atmosphere. But how soon the heavy earth-dream settled down again! "Hark!" whispered Phoebe.
Somebody is at the street door!" "Now let us meet the world!" said Holgrave.
No doubt, the rumor of Judge Pyncheon's visit to this house, and the flight of Hepzibah and Clifford, is about to lead to the investigation of the premises.
We have no way but to meet it.
Let us open the door at once." But, to their surprise, before they could reach the street door,-even before they quitted the room in which the foregoing interview had passed,-they heard footsteps in the farther passage.
The door, therefore, which they supposed to be securely locked,-which Holgrave, indeed, had seen to be so, and at which Phoebe had vainly tried to enter,-must have been opened from without.
The sound of footsteps was not harsh, bold, decided, and intrusive, as the gait of strangers would naturally be, making authoritative entrance into a dwelling where they knew themselves unwelcome.
It was feeble, as of persons either weak or weary; there was the mingled murmur of two voices, familiar to both the listeners. "Can it be?" whispered Holgrave. "It is they!" answered Phoebe.
Thank God!-thank God!" And then, as if in sympathy with Phoebe's whispered ejaculation, they heard Hepzibah's voice more distinctly. "Thank God, my brother, we are at home!" "Well!-Yes!-thank God!" responded Clifford.
A dreary home, Hepzibah! But you have done well to bring me hither!
That parlor door is open.
I cannot pass by it!
On beholding her, Hepzibah burst into tears.
With all her might, she had staggered onward beneath the burden of grief and responsibility, until now that it was safe to fling it down.
I thought of you both, as we came down the street, and beheld Alice's Posies in full bloom.
In most other cases and contingencies, the individual is present among us, mixed up with the daily revolution of affairs, and affording a definite point for observation.
At his decease, there is only a vacancy, and a momentary eddy,-very small, as compared with the apparent magnitude of the ingurgitated object,-and a bubble or two, ascending out of the black depth and bursting at the surface.
As regarded Judge Pyncheon, it seemed probable, at first blush, that the mode of his final departure might give him a larger and longer posthumous vogue than ordinarily attends the memory of a distinguished man.
It is very singular, how the fact of a man's death often seems to give people a truer idea of his character, whether for good or evil, than they have ever possessed while he was living and acting among them.
Death is so genuine a fact that it excludes falsehood, or betrays its emptiness; it is a touchstone that proves the gold, and dishonors the baser metal.
Could the departed, whoever he may be, return in a week after his decease, he would almost invariably find himself at a higher or lower point than he had formerly occupied, on the scale of public appreciation.
But the talk, or scandal, to which we now allude, had reference to matters of no less old a date than the supposed murder, thirty or forty years ago, of the late Judge Pyncheon's uncle.
The medical opinion with regard to his own recent and regretted decease had almost entirely obviated the idea that a murder was committed in the former case.
Yet, as the record showed, there were circumstances irrefragably indicating that some person had gained access to old Jaffrey Pyncheon's private apartments, at or near the moment of his death.
The brutish, the animal instincts, as is often the case, had been developed earlier than the intellectual qualities, and the force of character, for which he was afterwards remarkable.
He had shown himself wild, dissipated, addicted to low pleasures, little short of ruffianly in his propensities, and recklessly expensive, with no other resources than the bounty of his uncle.
This course of conduct had alienated the old bachelor's affection, once strongly fixed upon him.
While thus criminally occupied, he was startled by the opening of the chamber-door.
There stood old Jaffrey Pyncheon, in his nightclothes!
What was to be done?
The old man was surely dead! Assistance would come too late!
What a misfortune, indeed, should it come too soon, since his reviving consciousness would bring the recollection of the ignominious offence which he had beheld his nephew in the very act of committing! But he never did revive.
But before retiring, Jaffrey bethought himself of the evidence, in these ransacked drawers, that some one had visited the chamber with sinister purposes. Suspicion, unless averted, might fix upon the real offender.
In the very presence of the dead man, therefore, he laid a scheme that should free himself at the expense of Clifford, his rival, for whose character he had at once a contempt and a repugnance.
It is not probable, be it said, that he acted with any set purpose of involving Clifford in a charge of murder.
Knowing that his uncle did not die by violence, it may not have occurred to him, in the hurry of the crisis, that such an inference might be drawn.
But, when the affair took this darker aspect, Jaffrey's previous steps had already pledged him to those which remained.
This is just the sort of guilt that a man of eminent respectability finds it easiest to dispose of.
It was suffered to fade out of sight or be reckoned a venial matter, in the Honorable Judge Pyncheon's long subsequent survey of his own life.
He shuffled it aside, among the forgotten and forgiven frailties of his youth, and seldom thought of it again. We leave the Judge to his repose.
He could not be styled fortunate at the hour of death.
Unknowingly, he was a childless man, while striving to add more wealth to his only child's inheritance.
Hardly a week after his decease, one of the Cunard steamers brought intelligence of the death, by cholera, of Judge Pyncheon's son, just at the point of embarkation for his native land.
After such wrong as he had suffered, there is no reparation.
It is a truth (and it would be a very sad one but for the higher hopes which it suggests) that no great mistake, whether acted or endured, in our mortal sphere, is ever really set right.
Time, the continual vicissitude of circumstances, and the invariable inopportunity of death, render it impossible.
That strong and ponderous man had been Clifford's nightmare.
There was no free breath to be drawn, within the sphere of so malevolent an influence.
The first effect of freedom, as we have witnessed in Clifford's aimless flight, was a tremulous exhilaration.
Subsiding from it, he did not sink into his former intellectual apathy.
He never, it is true, attained to nearly the full measure of what might have been his faculties.
A house of stone, indeed!
You find me a conservative already!
Little did I think ever to become one.
Wealth, it seems to say!-boundless wealth!-unimaginable wealth!
I could fancy that, when I was a child, or a youth, that portrait had spoken, and told me a rich secret, or had held forth its hand, with the written record of hidden opulence.
But those old matters are so dim with me, nowadays!
What could this dream have been?" "Perhaps I can recall it," answered Holgrave.
There are a hundred chances to one that no person, unacquainted with the secret, would ever touch this spring." "A secret spring!" cried Clifford.
I did discover it, one summer afternoon, when I was idling and dreaming about the house, long, long ago.
But the mystery escapes me." The artist put his finger on the contrivance to which he had referred. In former days, the effect would probably have been to cause the picture to start forward.
But, in so long a period of concealment, the machinery had been eaten through with rust; so that at Holgrave's pressure, the portrait, frame and all, tumbled suddenly from its position, and lay face downward on the floor.
A recess in the wall was thus brought to light, in which lay an object so covered with a century's dust that it could not immediately be recognized as a folded sheet of parchment.
It is what the Pyncheons sought in vain, while it was valuable; and now that they find the treasure, it has long been worthless." "Poor Cousin Jaffrey!
This is what deceived him," exclaimed Hepzibah. "When they were young together, Clifford probably made a kind of fairy-tale of this discovery.
He was always dreaming hither and thither about the house, and lighting up its dark corners with beautiful stories.
And poor Jaffrey, who took hold of everything as if it were real, thought my brother had found out his uncle's wealth.
He died with this delusion in his mind!" "But," said Phoebe, apart to Holgrave, "how came you to know the secret?" "My dearest Phoebe," said Holgrave, "how will it please you to assume the name of Maule?
As for the secret, it is the only inheritance that has come down to me from my ancestors.
You should have known sooner (only that I was afraid of frightening you away) that, in this long drama of wrong and retribution, I represent the old wizard, and am probably as much a wizard as ever he was.
The son of the executed Matthew Maule, while building this house, took the opportunity to construct that recess, and hide away the Indian deed, on which depended the immense land-claim of the Pyncheons.
You shall never go there, as long as you live!
And-soul alive!-that great sigh, which you made me heave, has burst off the very last of them!
It was the happiest sigh I ever did heave; and it seems as if I must have drawn in a gulp of heavenly breath, to make it with.
I want you always to be within five minutes' saunter of my chair.
You are the only philosopher I ever knew of whose wisdom has not a drop of bitter essence at the bottom!" "Dear me!" cried Uncle Venner, beginning partly to realize what manner of man he was.
And yet folks used to set me down among the simple ones, in my younger days!
But I suppose I am like a Roxbury russet,-a great deal the better, the longer I can be kept.
And you are welcome, friends, to my mess of dandelions, if there were twice as many!" A plain, but handsome, dark-green barouche had now drawn up in front of the ruinous portal of the old mansion-house.
The party came forth, and (with the exception of good Uncle Venner, who was to follow in a few days) proceeded to take their places.
My wife kept a cent-shop three months, and lost five dollars on her outlay.
Old Maid Pyncheon has been in trade just about as long, and rides off in her carriage with a couple of hundred thousand,-reckoning her share, and Clifford's, and Phoebe's,-and some say twice as much!
The Pyncheon Elm, moreover, with what foliage the September gale had spared to it, whispered unintelligible prophecies.
[Illustration] Tarzan of the Apes by Edgar Rice Burroughs Contents CHAPTER I.
Out to Sea CHAPTER II.
The Savage Home CHAPTER III.
Life and Death CHAPTER IV.
The White Ape CHAPTER VI.
The Light of Knowledge CHAPTER VIII.
The Tree-top Hunter CHAPTER IX.
Man and Man CHAPTER X.
King of the Apes" CHAPTER XII.
His Own Kind CHAPTER XIV.
At the Mercy of the Jungle CHAPTER XV.
The Forest God CHAPTER XVI.
The Jungle Toll CHAPTER XIX.
The Call of the Primitive CHAPTER XX.
The Village of Torture CHAPTER XXII.
The Search Party CHAPTER XXIII.
The Outpost of the World CHAPTER XXVI.
The Height of Civilization CHAPTER XXVII.
The Giant Again CHAPTER XXVIII.
Conclusion CHAPTER I. Out to Sea I had this story from one who had no business to tell it to me, or to any other.
Her officers were swarthy bullies, hating and hated by their crew.
The captain, while a competent seaman, was a brute in his treatment of his men.
Closer and closer they came, until one of them was directly behind the captain.
They would but laugh in their sleeves and attribute his reason for wishing to leave the ship to but one thing-cowardice. John Clayton, Lord Greystoke, did not ask to be transferred to the British man-of-war.
Hasn't ye 'eard that devil's spawn of a capting an' 'is mates knockin' the bloomin' lights outen 'arf the crew? "Two busted 'eads yeste'day, an' three to-day.
Possibly the trouble may yet be averted," she said. "I suppose I should, but yet from purely selfish motives I am almost prompted to 'keep a still tongue in my 'ead.
If you do not warn the captain you are as much a party to whatever follows as though you had helped to plot and carry it out with your own head and hands." "You do not understand, dear," replied Clayton.
It is of you I am thinking-there lies my first duty.
The captain has brought this condition upon himself, so why then should I risk subjecting my wife to unthinkable horrors in a probably futile attempt to save him from his own brutal folly?
You have no conception, dear, of what would follow were this pack of cutthroats to gain control of the _Fuwalda_." "Duty is duty, John, and no amount of sophistries may change it.
I would be a poor wife for an English lord were I to be responsible for his shirking a plain duty.
I realize the danger which must follow, but I can face it with you." "Have it as you will then, Alice," he answered, smiling.
Maybe we are borrowing trouble.
In short, the men contemplate mutiny and murder." "It's a lie!" roared the captain.
And if you have been interfering again with the discipline of this ship, or meddling in affairs that don't concern you you can take the consequences, and be damned.
I don't care whether you are an English lord or not.
The fellow proved most ungrateful.
Fairly jumped at me like a mad dog. "He and his blasted old ship may hang, for aught I care; and until we are safely off the thing I shall spend my energies in looking after our own welfare.
And I rather fancy the first step to that end should be to go to our cabin and look over my revolvers.
I am sorry now that we packed the larger guns and the ammunition with the stuff below." They found their quarters in a bad state of disorder.
Clothing from their open boxes and bags strewed the little apartment, and even their beds had been torn to pieces. "Evidently someone was more anxious about our belongings than we," said Clayton.
We'll keep in the middle of the road." As they started to straighten up their cabin, Clayton and his wife simultaneously noticed the corner of a piece of paper protruding from beneath the door of their quarters.
They do not wish to be seen, and so we cannot afford to see them.
Do not forget that we are keeping to the middle of the road." Clayton smiled and dropped his hand to his side.
Thus they stood watching the little bit of white paper until it finally remained at rest upon the floor just inside the door. Then Clayton stooped and picked it up.
It was a bit of grimy, white paper roughly folded into a ragged square.
They lay where they had fallen between the combatants.
But then the first mate lunged forward upon his face, and at a cry of command from Black Michael the mutineers charged the remaining four.
The crew had been able to muster but six firearms, so most of them were armed with boat hooks, axes, hatchets and crowbars. The captain had emptied his revolver and was reloading as the charge was made.
Oh, how awful! What can we hope for at the hands of such as those?" "Breakfast, I hope," he answered, smiling bravely in an attempt to allay her fears. "At least," he added, "I'm going to ask them.
D'ye understand? "I'm captain of this ship now, an' what I says goes," he added, turning to Clayton.
But Black Michael was a fit leader for this band of cutthroats, and, withal held them in fair subjection to his rule. On the fifth day following the murder of the ship's officers, land was sighted by the lookout.
When I get safely hid away I'll see to it that the British gover'ment learns about where ye be; for the life of me I couldn't tell 'em exactly where, for I don't know myself.
What are we to do? What are we to do?" "There is but one thing to do, Alice," and he spoke as quietly as though they were sitting in their snug living room at home, "and that is work.
Work must be our salvation.
We must not give ourselves time to think, for in that direction lies madness. "We must work and wait.
That we are here today evidences their victory. "What they did may we not do?
And even better, for are we not armed with ages of superior knowledge, and have we not the means of protection, defense, and sustenance which science has given us, but of which they were totally ignorant?
Closer and closer it came until they could hear the great beast directly beneath them.
I can finish this fellow with my ax." But he knew he was facing a horrible death, and so did she. The ape was a great bull, weighing probably three hundred pounds.
For some time after regaining her senses, Alice gazed wonderingly about the interior of the little cabin, and then, with a satisfied sigh, said: "O, John, it is so good to be really home!
I have had an awful dream, dear.
Cupboards and bookcases lined the walls.
Odd vases made by his own hand from the clay of the region held beautiful tropical flowers.
This book he kept locked in a little metal box. A year from the day her little son was born Lady Alice passed quietly away in the night.
With the death of the babe his fit of demoniacal rage passed as suddenly as it had seized him. Kerchak was a huge king ape, weighing perhaps three hundred and fifty pounds.
Always will you have to carry him and protect him.
What good will he be to the tribe?
None; only a burden. "Let us leave him quietly sleeping among the tall grasses, that you may bear other and stronger apes to guard us in our old age." "Never, Broken Nose," replied Kala.
As they leaned over, both little faces were mirrored on the placid pool; the fierce and terrible features of the ape beside those of the aristocratic scion of an old English house. Tarzan was appalled.
It had been bad enough to be hairless, but to own such a countenance!
He wondered that the other apes could look at him at all. That tiny slit of a mouth and those puny white teeth!
How they looked beside the mighty lips and powerful fangs of his more fortunate brothers! And the little pinched nose of his; so thin was it that it looked half starved.
He turned red as he compared it with the beautiful broad nostrils of his companion.
Why it spread half across his face!
It certainly must be fine to be so handsome, thought poor little Tarzan. But when he saw his own eyes; ah, that was the final blow-a brown spot, a gray circle and then blank whiteness!
Cautiously she moved a great padded paw forward, noiselessly placing it before she lifted the next.
The little fellow crouched trembling just an instant, but that instant was quite long enough to prove his undoing. Not so, however, with Tarzan, the man-child.
What Tarzan did they tried to do also, but he alone originated and became proficient. One day while playing thus Tarzan had thrown his rope at one of his fleeing companions, retaining the other end in his grasp.
By accident the noose fell squarely about the running ape's neck, bringing him to a sudden and surprising halt. Ah, here was a new game, a fine game, thought Tarzan, and immediately he attempted to repeat the trick.
And thus, by painstaking and continued practice, he learned the art of roping. Now, indeed, was the life of Tublat a living nightmare.
Undaunted he continued his experiments, finding that he could hack and hew splinters of wood from the table and chairs with this new toy. For a long time this amused him, but finally tiring he continued his explorations.
Never before in all his ten years had he enjoyed anything so much.
Had the opportunity presented itself he would have escaped, but solely because his judgment told him he was no match for the great thing which confronted him.
She could but lick the wounds, and thus she kept them cleansed, that healing nature might the more quickly do her work. At first Tarzan would eat nothing, but rolled and tossed in a wild delirium of fever.
He had in mind that no more would he run from the wanton attacks of old Tublat. In another moment he was at the cabin, and after a short time had again thrown the latch and entered.
Presently he found it beneath a picture of another little ape and a strange animal which went upon four legs like the jackal and resembled him not a little.
He was a M-A-N, they were A-P-E-S, and the little apes which scurried through the forest top were M-O-N-K-E-Y-S.
He knew, too, that old Sabor was a L-I-O-N-E-S-S, and Histah a S-N-A-K-E, and Tantor an E-L-E-P-H-A-N-T.
And so he learned to read.
From then on his progress was rapid.
They seemed to consider him one of them and yet in some way different.
The females and young squatted in a thin line at the outer periphery of the circle, while just in front of them ranged the adult males.
He saw the females and the young scamper to the safety of the trees.
But his fangs never closed in that nut brown flesh. A muscular hand shot out and grasped the hairy throat, and another plunged a keen hunting knife a dozen times into the broad breast.
When they had all come Tarzan turned toward them. "I am Tarzan," he cried.
I am a great killer.
Let all respect Tarzan of the Apes and Kala, his mother.
There be none among you as mighty as Tarzan.
Cabbage palm and gray plum, pisang and scitamine they found in abundance, with wild pineapple, and occasionally small mammals, birds, eggs, reptiles, and insects.
He hurled a pineapple at the ancient enemy of his people.
He had killed the fierce Tublat, so was he not therefore a mighty fighter?
Now would he track down the crafty Sabor and slay her likewise.
All nature waited-but not for long. Faintly, from a distance, came a low, sad moaning.
Nearer and nearer it approached, mounting louder and louder in volume. The great trees bent in unison as though pressed earthward by a mighty hand.
Farther and farther toward the ground they inclined, and still there was no sound save the deep and awesome moaning of the wind. Then, suddenly, the jungle giants whipped back, lashing their mighty tops in angry and deafening protest.
A vivid and blinding light flashed from the whirling, inky clouds above.
The deep cannonade of roaring thunder belched forth its fearsome challenge.
The deluge came-all hell broke loose upon the jungle. The tribe shivering from the cold rain, huddled at the bases of great trees.
In constant danger from falling trunks and branches and paralyzed by the vivid flashing of lightning and the bellowing of thunder they crouched in pitiful misery until the storm passed. The end was as sudden as the beginning.
The wind ceased, the sun shone forth-nature smiled once more. The dripping leaves and branches, and the moist petals of gorgeous flowers glistened in the splendor of the returning day.
And, so-as Nature forgot, her children forgot also.
Busy life went on as it had been before the darkness and the fright. But to Tarzan a dawning light had come to explain the mystery of _clothes_.
He did not want such insignificant game.
He had learned from experience.
The lioness had taken but half her second bound when she felt the rope tighten about her neck; her body turned completely over in the air and she fell with a heavy crash upon her back.
It was alive with lions and leopards and poisonous snakes.
She did not run; but, after the manner of her kind when not aroused, sought rather to avoid than to escape. Close after her came Kulonga.
He could make a killing and feast well this day.
On he hurried, his spear poised for the throw. At a turning of the trail he came in sight of her again upon another straight stretch.
His spear hand went far back, the muscles rolled, lightning-like, beneath the sleek hide.
Out shot the arm, and the spear sped toward Kala. A poor cast.
It but grazed her side. With a cry of rage and pain the she-ape turned upon her tormentor.
He roared out his hideous challenge time and again.
To Tarzan she had been kind, she had been beautiful. Upon her he had lavished, unknown to himself, all the reverence and respect and love that a normal English boy feels for his own mother.
Could it be that he was trailing a MAN-one of his own race? There were two sets of imprints pointing in opposite directions.
So his quarry had already passed on his return along the trail.
Tarzan almost betrayed his presence in the deep excitement of his discovery. But things were commencing to happen below him.
The rest he left where it had fallen. Tarzan was an interested spectator.
His desire to kill burned fiercely in his wild breast, but his desire to learn was even greater.
With his knife he severed many strips of meat from Horta's carcass, but he did not cook them. He had seen fire, but only when Ara, the lightning, had destroyed some great tree.
Twice more he saw him hurl his arrows of destruction-once at Dango, the hyena, and again at Manu, the monkey.
In each instance the animal died almost instantly, for Kulonga's poison was very fresh and very deadly. Tarzan thought much on this wondrous method of slaying as he swung slowly along at a safe distance behind his quarry.
He searched the ground below the tree, and he searched the tree above the ground; but there was no sign of either bow or arrows or of the nocturnal marauder. Kulonga was panic-stricken.
His spear he had hurled at Kala and had not recovered; and, now that his bow and arrows were gone, he was defenseless except for a single knife.
Thus Tarzan blazed the forest trails and marked his caches. As Kulonga continued his journey Tarzan closed on him until he traveled almost over the black's head.
Kala was avenged. Tarzan examined the black minutely, for he had never seen any other human being.
The knife with its sheath and belt caught his eye; he appropriated them.
A copper anklet also took his fancy, and this he transferred to his own leg. He examined and admired the tattooing on the forehead and breast.
He marveled at the sharp filed teeth.
It would have been as revolting to him as is cannibalism to us. But who was Kulonga that he might not be eaten as fairly as Horta, the boar, or Bara, the deer?
Was he not simply another of the countless wild things of the jungle who preyed upon one another to satisfy the cravings of hunger? Suddenly, a strange doubt stayed his hand.
Had not his books taught him that he was a man?
And was not The Archer a man, also? Did men eat men?
Alas, he did not know.
Once more he essayed the effort, but a qualm of nausea overwhelmed him.
He knew nothing of the brotherhood of man.
All things outside his own tribe were his deadly enemies, with the few exceptions of which Tantor, the elephant, was a marked example. And he realized all this without malice or hatred.
To kill was the law of the wild world he knew.
That he joyed in killing, and that he killed with a joyous laugh upon his handsome lips betokened no innate cruelty.
Dozing in the shade he saw several men, while at the extreme outskirts of the clearing he occasionally caught glimpses of armed warriors apparently guarding the village against surprise from an attacking enemy. He noticed that the women alone worked.
Here was the secret of the terrible destructiveness of The Archer's tiny missiles.
He looked and saw a black warrior standing beneath the very tree in which he had killed the murderer of Kala an hour before. The fellow was shouting and waving his spear above his head.
Now and again he would point to something on the ground before him. The village was in an uproar instantly.
Armed men rushed from the interior of many a hut and raced madly across the clearing toward the excited sentry.
For a moment he stood motionless, his quick, bright eyes scanning the interior of the palisade. No one was in sight.
His eyes rested upon the open doorway of a nearby hut.
He would take a look within, thought Tarzan, and so, cautiously, he approached the low thatched building. For a moment he stood without, listening intently.
There was no sound, and he glided into the semi-darkness of the interior. Weapons hung against the walls-long spears, strangely shaped knives, a couple of narrow shields.
In the center of the room was a cooking pot, and at the far end a litter of dry grasses covered by woven mats which evidently served the owners as beds and bedding.
Several human skulls lay upon the floor. Tarzan of the Apes felt of each article, hefted the spears, smelled of them, for he "saw" largely through his sensitive and highly trained nostrils.
Tarzan of the Apes enjoyed a joke. But now he heard, outside, the sounds of many voices, and long mournful howls, and mighty wailing.
Had he remained too long? Quickly he reached the doorway and peered down the village street toward the village gate. The natives were not yet in sight, though he could plainly hear them approaching across the plantation.
Then he turned to watch the proceeding below, poised like some wild bird ready to take swift wing at the first sign of danger. The natives filed up the street, four of them bearing the dead body of Kulonga.
Behind trailed the women, uttering strange cries and weird lamentation.
On they came to the portals of Kulonga's hut, the very one in which Tarzan had wrought his depredations. Scarcely had half a dozen entered the building ere they came rushing out in wild, jabbering confusion.
Nothing more they found, and it was a thoroughly awed and frightened group of savages which huddled around their king a few moments later. Mbonga could explain nothing of the strange events that had taken place.
There was much in their demeanor which he could not understand, for of superstition he was ignorant, and of fear of any kind he had but a vague conception. The sun was high in the heavens.
In his little evil brain he sought for some excuse to wreak his hatred upon Tarzan. The next day Tarzan was practicing with his bow and arrows at the first gleam of dawn.
It was his father. The locket, too, took his fancy, and he placed the chain about his neck in imitation of the ornamentation he had seen to be so common among the black men he had visited.
The day wore on, and still Tarzan of the Apes crouched above the unsuspecting woman at the cauldron. Presently the workers in the fields returned.
The hunting warriors emerged from the forest, and when all were within the palisade the gates were closed and barred. Many cooking pots were now in evidence about the village.
Presently a spear reached out and pricked the victim.
All eyes were fixed upon the thrilling spectacle at the stake.
In another instant the figure of a woman darkened the entrance of the hut. Tarzan drew back silently to the far wall, and his hand sought the long, keen hunting knife of his father.
The woman came quickly to the center of the hut.
There she paused for an instant feeling about with her hands for the thing she sought.
Evidently it was not in its accustomed place, for she explored ever nearer and nearer the wall where Tarzan stood. So close was she now that the ape-man felt the animal warmth of her naked body.
First, however, he must remove the hide, for it was as much for this as for any other purpose that he had desired to destroy Sabor. Deftly he removed the great pelt, for he had practiced often on smaller animals.
See what Tarzan, the mighty killer, has done.
Who else among you has ever killed one of Numa's people? Tarzan is mightiest amongst you for Tarzan is no ape.
Come down and feel the fangs of a greater!
Do mighty fighters fly to the trees at the first approach of danger?
And then Kerchak emitted the volleying challenge of his kind. Quietly Tarzan dropped to the ground.
Breathlessly the tribe watched from their lofty perches as Kerchak, still roaring, charged the relatively puny figure. Nearly seven feet stood Kerchak on his short legs.
His enormous shoulders were bunched and rounded with huge muscles.
Such a thing was unheard of, and it clouded their superstitious minds with all manner of vague fears. Nor was this all.
Now was the quiet, fierce solitude of the primeval forest broken by new, strange cries.
No longer was there safety for bird or beast.
Man had come. Other animals passed up and down the jungle by day and by night-fierce, cruel beasts-but their weaker neighbors only fled from their immediate vicinity to return again when the danger was past. With man it is different.
When he comes many of the larger animals instinctively leave the district entirely, seldom if ever to return; and thus it has always been with the great anthropoids.
They flee man as man flees a pestilence. For a short time the tribe of Tarzan lingered in the vicinity of the beach because their new chief hated the thought of leaving the treasured contents of the little cabin forever.
So it came that he spent more and more time in the vicinity of his father's last home, and less and less with the tribe.
Gunto, her husband, has cruelly bitten her!
They had not kept pace with him, nor could they understand aught of the many strange and wonderful dreams that passed through the active brain of their human king.
It was the half-Nelson of modern wrestling which the untaught ape-man had stumbled upon, but superior reason showed him in an instant the value of the thing he had discovered.
The two lay perfectly still upon the ground, Tarzan upon Terkoz's back.
Slowly the bullet head of the ape was being forced lower and lower upon his chest. Tarzan knew what the result would be.
In an instant the neck would break.
Then there came to Terkoz's rescue the same thing that had put him in these sore straits-a man's reasoning power. "If I kill him," thought Tarzan, "what advantage will it be to me?
Will it not rob the tribe of a great fighter?
In all the jungle there is none so great. "You have said: '_Ka-goda_' to me.
All the tribe have heard.
Quarrel no more with your king or your people, for next time I shall kill you.
He is not like his people.
It was the mark left by Terkoz when he had torn the scalp away. During his convalescence Tarzan tried to fashion a mantle from the skin of Sabor, which had lain all this time in the cabin.
None there was who could now doubt his high origin.
You do not dare admit that when the lion sprang upon Mirando you ran away and left him.
Only those who saw this terrible god of the jungle died; for was it not true that none left alive in the village had ever seen him?
He puckered his brows into a frown of deep thought.
Soon he saw many people clambering over the sides of the larger vessel and dropping into the boats.
She gave him a brave and pretty smile of thanks, but no words passed between them. In silence the party advanced toward the cabin.
The men put down their burdens, and then one caught sight of the notice which Tarzan had posted. "Ho, mates!" he cried.
Come back here and read it out loud, you old barnacle." The old man stopped and, turning back, said: "Oh, yes, my dear sir, a thousand pardons.
What do you make of it, Professor Porter?" he added, turning to the old man. Professor Archimedes Q.
You've murdered our officers and robbed us.
You'd never dare shoot a man until his back was turned.
The gaze of his fellows was upon him, but still he hesitated.
At heart he was even a greater coward than Mr. William Cecil Clayton had imagined. Two keen eyes had watched every move of the party from the foliage of a nearby tree.
The rat-faced sailor had half drawn his revolver; the other sailors stood watching the scene intently. Professor Porter had already disappeared into the jungle, whither he was being followed by the fussy Samuel T.
The sailors stood in a frightened group, with drawn weapons, peering into the jungle.
I wonder, now, who that spear was intended for.
If for Snipes, then our ape friend is a friend indeed. "By jove, where are your father and Mr. Philander?
There's someone or something in that jungle, and it's armed, whatever it is.
Mr. Philander!" young Clayton shouted.
He is more than apt to wandering off aimlessly, regardless of danger or direction, and Mr. Philander is only a trifle less impractical than he.
Dear old papa would sacrifice his life for me without an instant's hesitation, provided one could keep his mind on so frivolous a matter for an entire instant.
There is only one way to keep him in safety, and that is to chain him to a tree.
The poor dear is SO impractical." "I have it!" suddenly exclaimed Clayton.
You can use a revolver, can't you?" "Yes.
With it you and Esmeralda will be comparatively safe in this cabin while I am searching for your father and Mr. Philander. Come, call the woman and I will hurry on.
The watchers in the cabin by the beach heard the sound of his voice growing ever fainter and fainter, until at last it was swallowed up by the myriad noises of the primeval wood. When Professor Archimedes Q.
Instead, with all the assurance that deductive reasoning from a wrong premise induces in one, Mr. Samuel T.
A further glance revealed a second skeleton upon the bed. "What horrible place are we in?" murmured the awe-struck girl.
But the most wonderful sight of all, to him, was the face of the beautiful white girl. Here at last was one of his own kind; of that he was positive.
And the young man and the two old men; they, too, were much as he had pictured his own people to be. But doubtless they were as ferocious and cruel as other men he had seen.
The fact that they alone of all the party were unarmed might account for the fact that they had killed no one.
As for the big black woman, she was evidently connected in some way to the girl, and so he liked her, also. For the sailors, and especially Snipes, he had developed a great hatred.
Now, Tarzan heard the soft bending of grasses and wondered why the young white man was not warned.
Could it be he had failed to note the loud warning?
Never before had Tarzan known Sheeta to be so clumsy. No, the white man did not hear.
Never in all his life had so fearful a sound smote upon his ears.
Yes, that was more than likely.
At least he would return and see, before he continued what seemed to be a most fruitless quest.
Nor was he following the trail of the old men.
That, they had crossed and left long since, though it had been fresh and plain before Tarzan's eyes. Tarzan was perplexed.
The man stopped with upraised spear and faced the brush from which issued the awful sound. The shadows were deepening, darkness was settling in. God!
Clayton stood rigid, with raised spear. Presently a faint rustling of the bush apprised him of the stealthy creeping of the thing behind.
It was gathering for the spring.
At last he saw it, not twenty feet away-the long, lithe, muscular body and tawny head of a huge black-maned lion. The beast was upon its belly, moving forward very slowly.
As its eyes met Clayton's it stopped, and deliberately, cautiously gathered its hind quarters behind it. In agony the man watched, fearful to launch his spear, powerless to fly. He heard a noise in the tree above him.
She could hear the great padded paws upon the ground outside.
For an instant, all was silence; even the bedlam of the forest died to a faint murmur.
Then she distinctly heard the beast outside sniffing at the door, not two feet from where she crouched. Instinctively the girl shuddered, and shrank closer to the black woman. "Hush!" she whispered.
Hush, Esmeralda," for the woman's sobs and groans seemed to have attracted the thing that stalked there just beyond the thin wall. A gentle scratching sound was heard on the door.
The brute tried to force an entrance; but presently this ceased, and again she heard the great pads creeping stealthily around the cabin.
The gleaming eyes were fixed upon her in intent ferocity. "Look, Esmeralda!" she whispered.
For God's sake, what shall we do? Look!
Presently it tried the strength of the lattice with its great talons. The girl had almost ceased to breathe, when, to her relief, the head disappeared and she heard the brute's footsteps leaving the window.
At her feet lay the prostrate form of the Negress.
If she could but arouse her, their combined efforts might possibly avail to beat back the fierce and bloodthirsty intruder. Jane stooped to grasp the black woman by the shoulder.
Roughly she shook her. "Esmeralda!
Help me, or we are lost." Esmeralda opened her eyes.
The first object they encountered was the dripping fangs of the hungry lioness. With a horrified scream the poor woman rose to her hands and knees, and in this position scurried across the room, shrieking: "O Gaberelle!
The bullet had but inflicted a painful wound in one of the great shoulders.
There was no longer any resistance to be overcome.
Tarzan's quick ears had heard the strange sounds of Sabor's efforts to force her way through the lattice, and it seemed to Clayton that they dropped a straight hundred feet to earth, so quickly did Tarzan descend.
No, she must use one cartridge on the senseless woman ere she turned the cold muzzle toward herself again. How she shrank from the ordeal!
At last her shoulders were out. And then Clayton saw an incredible thing.
Weaker and weaker became the lioness's efforts. At last Clayton saw the immense muscles of Tarzan's shoulders and biceps leap into corded knots beneath the silver moonlight.
Then he heard Jane's agonized cry: "Cecil-Mr. Clayton!
What is it?" Running quickly to the cabin door, Clayton called out that all was right, and shouted to her to open the door.
At their backs was the Dark Continent.
Close around them loomed the impenetrable blackness of the jungle. Savage beasts roared and growled; noises, hideous and weird, assailed their ears.
They had wandered for miles in search of their camp, but always in the wrong direction.
Moslemism was, is, and always will be, a blight on that scientific progress which has marked-" "Bless me!
Professor," interjected Mr. Philander, who had turned his gaze toward the jungle, "there seems to be someone approaching." Professor Archimedes Q.
Porter turned in the direction indicated by the nearsighted Mr. Philander. "Tut, tut, Mr. Philander," he chided.
And now I find you guilty of a most flagrant breach of courtesy in interrupting my learned discourse to call attention to a mere quadruped of the genus _Felis_.
Never, Mr. Philander, never before in my life have I known one of these animals to be permitted to roam at large from its cage.
I shall most certainly report this outrageous breach of ethics to the directors of the adjacent zoological garden." "Quite right, Professor," agreed Mr. Philander, "and the sooner it is done the better.
He tightened his grip upon the protesting professor and increased his speed. "As I was saying, Mr. Philander," repeated Professor Porter. Mr. Philander took another hasty glance rearward.
What will our friends think of us, who may chance to be upon the street and witness our frivolous antics?
As I was saying, Mr. Philander, when you interrupted me, the Moors-" "Professor Archimedes Q.
Porter," broke in Mr. Philander, in icy tones, "the time has arrived when patience becomes a crime and mayhem appears garbed in the mantle of virtue.
You have accused me of cowardice.
You have insinuated that you ran only to overtake me, not to escape the clutches of the lion.
Have a care, Professor Archimedes Q.
I am a desperate man.
Goaded by long-suffering patience the worm will turn." "Tut, tut, Mr. Philander, tut, tut!" cautioned Professor Porter; "you forget yourself." "I forget nothing as yet, Professor Archimedes Q.
Lordy, how good that sounds!
The lion below them paced nervously back and forth.
The third figure in the tree was hidden by the dense shadows near the stem.
He, too, was silent-motionless as a graven image. "You certainly pulled me up into this tree just in time," said the professor at last.
I want to thank you.
You saved my life." "But I didn't pull you up here, Professor," said Mr. Philander.
The excitement of the moment quite caused me to forget that I myself was drawn up here by some outside agency-there must be someone or something in this tree with us." "Eh?" ejaculated Professor Porter.
Are you quite positive, Mr. Philander?" "Most positive, Professor," replied Mr. Philander, "and," he added, "I think we should thank the party.
He may be sitting right next to you now, Professor." "Eh?
To his surprise, it responded to his will as in days gone by.
It remains intact." Mr. Philander had not moved from where he had fallen; he had not dared the attempt.
Concussion of the brain, superinducing total mental aberration.
Most remarkable!" Whereupon he arose, and, bending a scathing glance upon the still prostrate form of Mr. Samuel T.
Philander, he said: "Tut, tut, Mr. Philander; this is no time to indulge in slothful ease. We must be up and doing." Mr. Philander lifted his other eye out of the mud and gazed in speechless rage at Professor Porter.
A short time since you were advancing a most logical argument in substantiation of your theory that camp lay directly south of us.
I was skeptical, but you finally convinced me; so now I am positive that toward the south we must travel to reach our friends.
Therefore I shall continue south." "But, Professor Porter, this man may know better than either of us.
He seems to be indigenous to this part of the world.
Let us at least follow him for a short distance." "Tut, tut, Mr. Philander," repeated the professor.
I am a difficult man to convince, but when once convinced my decision is unalterable.
But you see, Mr. Philander, that I was quite right, as usual; and but for your stubborn willfulness we should have escaped a series of most humiliating, not to say dangerous accidents.
Pray allow yourself to be guided by a more mature and practical mind hereafter when in need of wise counsel." Mr. Samuel T.
Philander was too much relieved at the happy outcome to their adventure to take umbrage at the professor's cruel fling.
Instead he grasped his friend's arm and hastened him forward in the direction of the cabin. It was a much-relieved party of castaways that found itself once more united.
In a second book which she hurriedly examined was the single name, _Greystoke_. "Why, Mr. Clayton," she cried, "what does this mean?
He could not fathom them.
He wondered why he felt so great an interest in these people-why he had gone to such pains to save the three men.
But he did not wonder why he had torn Sabor from the tender flesh of the strange girl. Surely the men were stupid and ridiculous and cowardly.
Even Manu, the monkey, was more intelligent than they.
If these were creatures of his own kind he was doubtful if his past pride in blood was warranted. But the girl, ah-that was a different matter.
He did not reason here. He knew that she was created to be protected, and that he was created to protect her. He wondered why they had dug a great hole in the ground merely to bury dry bones.
Instantly her tears ceased. "Look at them low down white trash out there!" she shrilled, pointing toward the _Arrow_.
They-all's a desecrating us, right here on this here perverted island." And, sure enough, the _Arrow_ was being worked toward the open sea, slowly, through the harbor's entrance. "They promised to leave us firearms and ammunition," said Clayton.
The merciless beasts!" "It is the work of that fellow they call Snipes, I am sure," said Jane. "King was a scoundrel, but he had a little sense of humanity.
If they had not killed him I know that he would have seen that we were properly provided for before they left us to our fate." "I regret that they did not visit us before sailing," said Professor Porter.
I had proposed requesting them to leave the treasure with us, as I shall be a ruined man if that is lost." Jane looked at her father sadly. "Never mind, dear," she said.
It wouldn't have done any good, because it is solely for the treasure that they killed their officers and landed us upon this awful shore." "Tut, tut, child, tut, tut!" replied Professor Porter.
We depend upon you, you know, to keep a close watch upon him." "He becomes more difficult to handle each day," replied Mr. Philander, with a sigh and a shake of his head.
I presume he is now off to report to the directors of the Zoo that one of their lions was at large last night.
Tarzan wondered what the purpose of this action might be. At last the ship came up directly into the wind; the anchor was lowered; down came the sails.
There was great scurrying about on deck. A boat was lowered, and in it a great chest was placed.
The men jumped out and lifted the great chest to the sand.
They were on the north side of the point so that their presence was concealed from those at the cabin. The men argued angrily for a moment.
Then the rat-faced one, with several companions, ascended the low bluff on which stood the tree that concealed Tarzan.
They looked about for several minutes. "Here is a good place," said the rat-faced sailor, indicating a spot beneath Tarzan's tree. "It is as good as any," replied one of his companions.
If they catch us with the treasure aboard it will all be confiscated anyway.
You're no admiral, you damned shrimp." "I'm Cap'n here, though, I'll have you to understand, you swab," shrieked Snipes, with a volley of frightful oaths. "Steady, boys," cautioned one of the men who had not spoken before.
And while you're diggin', Peter kin be a-makin' of a map of the location so's we kin find it again.
You, Tom, and Bill, take a couple more down and fetch up the chest." "Wot are you a-goin' to do?" asked he of the previous altercation. "Just boss?" "Git busy there," growled Snipes.
You didn't think your Cap'n was a-goin' to dig with a shovel, did you?" The men all looked up angrily.
Then one of them spoke. "Served the skunk jolly well right," he said. One of the others commenced to ply his pick to the ground.
The soil was soft and he threw aside the pick and grasped a shovel; then the others joined him.
How fortunate was he who lived in the peace and security of the great forest! Tarzan wondered what the chest they had buried contained.
If they did not want it why did they not merely throw it into the water?
That would have been much easier. Ah, he thought, but they do want it.
They have hidden it here because they intend returning for it later. Tarzan dropped to the ground and commenced to examine the earth about the excavation.
He was looking to see if these creatures had dropped anything which he might like to own.
Soon he discovered a spade hidden by the underbrush which they had laid upon the grave. He seized it and attempted to use it as he had seen the sailors do.
It was awkward work and hurt his bare feet, but he persevered until he had partially uncovered the body.
This he dragged from the grave and laid to one side. Then he continued digging until he had unearthed the chest.
This also he dragged to the side of the corpse.
His brain told him that the chest contained something valuable, or the men would not have hidden it.
The lamps also were still useable, and thus the interior of the cabin appeared as bright as day to the astonished Tarzan. He had often wondered at the exact purpose of the lamps.
How delicate her snowy skin! She was writing at Tarzan's own table beneath the window.
Upon a pile of grasses at the far side of the room lay the Negress asleep. For an hour Tarzan feasted his eyes upon her while she wrote.
Then she extinguished the lamp and all within the cabin was wrapped in Cimmerian darkness. Still Tarzan watched.
Creeping close beneath the window he waited, listening, for half an hour.
At last he was rewarded by the sounds of the regular breathing within which denotes sleep. Cautiously he intruded his hand between the meshes of the lattice until his whole arm was within the cabin.
Carefully he felt upon the desk.
It was an expression of her thoughts, and that was sufficient for Tarzan of the Apes. And now to be baffled by strange, uncouth characters the like of which he had never seen before!
Ah, they were his old friends, but badly crippled. Then he began to make out a word here and a word there.
His heart leaped for joy.
Papa was presumed to entertain some wondrous theory of an unthinkably ancient civilization, the remains of which lay buried somewhere in the Congo valley.
In addition, he is wealthy in his own right, but the fact that he is going to be an English Lord makes me very sad-you know what my sentiments have always been relative to American girls who married titled foreigners.
Papa and Mr. Philander lost in the jungle, and chased by a real lion. Mr. Clayton lost, and attacked twice by wild beasts.
Esmeralda and I cornered in an old cabin by a perfectly awful man-eating lioness.
Oh, it was simply "terrifical," as Esmeralda would say. But the strangest part of it all is the wonderful creature who rescued us.
It was filled with so many new and wonderful things that his brain was in a whirl as he attempted to digest them all. So they did not know that he was Tarzan of the Apes.
He would tell them. In his tree he had constructed a rude shelter of leaves and boughs, beneath which, protected from the rain, he had placed the few treasures brought from the cabin.
Among these were some pencils. He took one, and beneath Jane Porter's signature he wrote: I am Tarzan of the Apes He thought that would be sufficient.
She was mystified; but when she saw the printed words beneath her signature, she felt a cold, clammy chill run up her spine.
She showed the letter, or rather the last sheet with the signature, to Clayton. "And to think," she said, "that uncanny thing was probably watching me all the time that I was writing-oo!
Mr. Samuel T. Philander, never what one might call robust, was worn to the shadow of a shadow through the ceaseless worry and mental distraction resultant from his Herculean efforts to safeguard the professor. A month passed.
Tarzan had finally determined to visit the camp by daylight. It was early afternoon.
Clayton had wandered to the point at the harbor's mouth to look for passing vessels.
His thoughts were of the beautiful white girl.
They were always of her now.
The ape-man knew no god, but he was as near to worshipping his divinity as mortal man ever comes to worship.
He wrote: I am Tarzan of the Apes.
We live here together always in my house.
I will bring you the best of fruits, the tenderest deer, the finest meats that roam the jungle.
I will hunt for you.
I am the greatest of the jungle fighters.
I will fight for you.
I am the mightiest of the jungle fighters.
You are Jane Porter, I saw it in your letter.
A glance within confirmed their worst fears. Jane and Esmeralda were not there. Instantly, Clayton, followed by the two old men, plunged into the jungle, calling the girl's name aloud.
For half an hour they stumbled on, until Clayton, by merest chance, came upon the prostrate form of Esmeralda. He stopped beside her, feeling for her pulse and then listening for her heartbeats.
He shook her. "Esmeralda!" he shrieked in her ear.
For God's sake, where is Miss Porter?
Esmeralda!" Slowly Esmeralda opened her eyes.
She saw the jungle about her. "Oh, Gaberelle!" she screamed, and fainted again. By this time Professor Porter and Mr. Philander had come up. "What shall we do, Mr. Clayton?" asked the old professor.
God could not have been so cruel as to take my little girl away from me now." "We must arouse Esmeralda first," replied Clayton.
She can tell us what has happened.
Esmeralda!" he cried again, shaking the black woman roughly by the shoulder. "O Gaberelle, I want to die!" cried the poor woman, but with eyes fast closed.
Let me die, dear Lord, don't let me see that awful face again." "Come, come, Esmeralda," cried Clayton. "The Lord isn't here; it's Mr. Clayton.
Open your eyes." Esmeralda did as she was bade. "O Gaberelle!
Thank the Lord," she said. "Where's Miss Porter?
What happened?" questioned Clayton. "Ain't Miss Jane here?" cried Esmeralda, sitting up with wonderful celerity for one of her bulk.
Oh, Lord, now I remember!
Early to-morrow, as soon as it is light, I shall take what food I can carry and continue the search until I have found Jane.
I will not return without her." His companions did not reply at once.
Jane is beyond human assistance now.
Now they came back to him, one by one. "As you wish," he said. "You may count on me, also," said Mr. Philander. "No, my dear old friend," said Professor Porter.
We may not all go.
It would be cruelly wicked to leave poor Esmeralda here alone, and three of us would be no more successful than one. "There be enough dead things in the cruel forest as it is.
Come-let us try to sleep a little." CHAPTER XIX. The Call of the Primitive From the time Tarzan left the tribe of great anthropoids in which he had been raised, it was torn by continual strife and discord.
But, instead, let two or three or four of you attack him together.
Then she was dragged toward those awful fangs which yawned at her throat.
But ere they touched that fair skin another mood claimed the anthropoid. The tribe had kept his women.
He must find others to replace them.
How could any vanquish such a mighty antagonist? Like two charging bulls they came together, and like two wolves sought each other's throat.
He took his woman in his arms and smothered her upturned, panting lips with kisses. For a moment Jane lay there with half-closed eyes.
Clayton was the first to rush out, and there, beyond the harbor's mouth, he saw two vessels lying at anchor. One was the _Arrow_ and the other a small French cruiser.
Yesterday and it would not have been too late.
Today and it may be better that the poor lady were never found.
The sight that met the Frenchmen's eyes as they clambered over the ship's side was appalling. A dozen dead and dying men rolled hither and thither upon the pitching deck, the living intermingled with the dead.
Their water was gone, and in another day they would be without food. Conditions changed rapidly from bad to worse.
One man went mad and leaped overboard.
Soon another opened his veins and drank his own blood. When he died they threw him overboard also, though there were those among them who wanted to keep the corpse on board.
Hunger was changing them from human beasts to wild beasts. Two days before they had been picked up by the cruiser they had become too weak to handle the vessel, and that same day three men died.
Was not Tarzan a Man?
But what did men do?
She noted the graceful majesty of his carriage, the perfect symmetry of his magnificent figure and the poise of his well-shaped head upon his broad shoulders. What a perfect creature!
There could be naught of cruelty or baseness beneath that godlike exterior.
Never, she thought had such a man strode the earth since God created the first in his own image. With a bound Tarzan sprang into the trees and disappeared.
Jane wondered where he had gone.
Had he left her there to her fate in the lonely jungle? She glanced nervously about.
Every vine and bush seemed but the lurking-place of some huge and horrible beast waiting to bury gleaming fangs into her soft flesh.
He had had time to recollect all that he had read of the ways of men and women in the books at the cabin.
He reached out his hand for the locket and took it away from her, examining the likenesses within with unmistakable signs of surprise and new interest.
And then a great wonderment arose in her heart-a mighty wave of thankfulness and gratitude that though she had been in such terrible danger, yet she was unharmed. She moved to the entrance of the shelter to look for Tarzan.
She knew that the fact that he had been there was all that had permitted her to sleep in such peaceful security. With him near, who could entertain fear?
She wondered if there was another man on earth with whom a girl could feel so safe in the heart of this savage African jungle.
Even the lions and panthers had no fears for her now. She looked up to see his lithe form drop softly from a near-by tree.
Once more they sat down together to eat. Jane commenced to wonder what his plans were.
Would he take her back to the beach or would he keep her here?
Suddenly she realized that the matter did not seem to give her much concern.
The girl had entirely forgotten it.
He drew back, shaking his head. The girl came close to him, looking up with pleading eyes.
He was going, and something told her that it was because he thought her people were in danger. Again he kissed her. "Come back to me," she whispered.
I shall wait for you-always." He was gone-and Jane turned to walk across the clearing to the cabin. Mr. Philander was the first to see her.
It was dusk and Mr. Philander was very near sighted. "Quickly, Esmeralda!" he cried.
Let us seek safety within; it is a lioness.
Bless me!" Esmeralda did not bother to verify Mr. Philander's vision.
She was within the cabin and had slammed and bolted the door before he had finished pronouncing her name.
The thing was quite close now.
If one feigns death lions and lionesses are supposed to ignore one, according to Mr. Philander's faulty memory. So Mr. Philander lay as he had fallen, frozen into the horrid semblance of death.
As his arms and legs had been extended stiffly upward as he came to earth upon his back the attitude of death was anything but impressive. Jane had been watching his antics in mild-eyed surprise.
Now she laughed-a little choking gurgle of a laugh; but it was enough.
Mr. Philander rolled over upon his side and peered about.
At length he discovered her. "Jane!" he cried.
Bless me!" He scrambled to his feet and rushed toward her.
He could not believe that it was she, and alive. "Bless me!
Where did you come from?
Where in the world have you been? How-" "Mercy, Mr. Philander," interrupted the girl, "I can never remember so many questions." "Well, well," said Mr. Philander.
I am so filled with surprise and exuberant delight at seeing you safe and well again that I scarcely know what I am saying, really.
He deployed his men into a skirmish line from the point where Esmeralda had been found, and in this extended formation they pushed their way, sweating and panting, through the tangled vines and creepers.
Night was falling rapidly, and their predicament was rendered doubly worse when they could not even find the elephant trail which they had been following. There was but one thing to do, make camp where they were until daylight.
Every vestige of clothing was torn from him, and the merciless blows fell upon his bare and quivering flesh.
But not once did the Frenchman cry out in pain.
He breathed a silent prayer that he be quickly delivered from his torture. But the death he prayed for was not to be so easily had.
Soon the warriors beat the women away from their prisoner.
He was to be saved for nobler sport than this, and the first wave of their passion having subsided they contented themselves with crying out taunts and insults and spitting upon him. Presently they reached the center of the village.
Surely no such creatures really existed upon earth-he must indeed be dreaming. The savage, whirling bodies circled nearer.
Now a spear sprang forth and touched his arm.
The sharp pain and the feel of hot, trickling blood assured him of the awful reality of his hopeless position. Another spear and then another touched him.
Those who were killed he could not aid, those who escaped would not need his assistance. It was to those who had neither been killed or escaped that he hastened.
He doubted that he would arrive in time to do more than avenge. On he sped.
Night had fallen and he traveled high along the upper terrace where the gorgeous tropic moon lighted the dizzy pathway through the gently undulating branches of the tree tops. Presently he caught the reflection of a distant blaze.
It lay to the right of his path.
It was the camp fire of the Frenchmen. In a few minutes more Tarzan swung into the trees above Mbonga's village.
Ah, he was not quite too late!
He could not tell. The figure at the stake was very still, yet the black warriors were but pricking it. Tarzan knew their customs.
The death blow had not been struck.
Then there rose suddenly above the fiendish cries of the dancing demons the awful challenge of the ape-man. The dancers halted as though turned to stone. The rope sped with singing whir high above the heads of the blacks.
It was quite invisible in the flaring lights of the camp fires. D'Arnot opened his eyes.
Some new creature of torture and destruction, doubtless. D'Arnot waited.
His eyes never left the face of the advancing man.
Weak from suffering and loss of blood, he would have fallen but for the strong arm that caught him. He felt himself lifted from the ground.
His heart was filled with happiness.
The woman he loved was safe. He wondered by what manner of miracle she had been spared.
To see her alive seemed almost unbelievable. As he approached the cabin he saw Jane coming out.
When she saw him she hurried forward to meet him. "Jane!" he cried, "God has been good to us, indeed.
Tell me how you escaped-what form Providence took to save you for-us." He had never before called her by her given name.
He has told me how noble and self-sacrificing you have been.
How can we repay you!" Clayton noticed that she did not return his familiar salutation, but he felt no misgivings on that score.
She had been through so much.
This was no time to force his love upon her, he quickly realized. "I am already repaid," he said.
Just to see you and Professor Porter both safe, well, and together again.
But his was so hopeless-his was pitiful.
It taught me that no love, not even that of a man for his wife may be so deep and terrible and self-sacrificing as the love of a father for his daughter." The girl bowed her head.
Why did he not return?" "I do not understand," said Clayton.
Whom do you mean?" "He who has saved each of us-who saved me from the gorilla." "Oh," cried Clayton, in surprise.
It was he who rescued you?
You have not told me anything of your adventure, you know." "But the wood man," she urged.
Have you not seen him?
When we heard the shots in the jungle, very faint and far away, he left me.
We had just reached the clearing, and he hurried off in the direction of the fighting.
He did not join us.
And then after a moment of thoughtful pause: "Possibly he joined his own tribe-the men who attacked us.
He did not know why he had said it, for he did not believe it. The girl looked at him wide eyed for a moment. "No!" she exclaimed vehemently, much too vehemently he thought.
They were savages." Clayton looked puzzled. "He is a strange, half-savage creature of the jungle, Miss Porter.
We know nothing of him.
He neither speaks nor understands any European tongue-and his ornaments and weapons are those of the West Coast savages." Clayton was speaking rapidly. "There are no other human beings than savages within hundreds of miles, Miss Porter.
He must belong to the tribes which attacked us, or to some other equally savage-he may even be a cannibal." Jane blanched. "I will not believe it," she half whispered.
You shall see," she said, addressing Clayton, "that he will come back and that he will prove that you are wrong.
You do not know him as I do.
The chances are that he is some half-demented castaway who will forget us more quickly, but no more surely, than we shall forget him.
She tried to imagine her wood-god by her side in the saloon of an ocean liner.
She saw him eating with his hands, tearing his food like a beast of prey, and wiping his greasy fingers upon his thighs.
Then she raised it to her lips, and crushing it there buried her face in the soft ferns, sobbing. "Beast?" she murmured.
Then God make me a beast; for, man or beast, I am yours." She did not see Clayton again that day.
Esmeralda brought her supper to her, and she sent word to her father that she was suffering from the reaction following her adventure. The next morning Clayton left early with the relief expedition in search of Lieutenant D'Arnot.
They reached the site of the skirmish of the previous expedition shortly after noon, for they were now traveling a known trail and no time was lost in exploring. From there on the elephant-track led straight to Mbonga's village.
To them it seemed like hours.
The prisoners were herded into three huts where they were heavily guarded.
Sentries were posted at the barred gates, and finally the village was wrapped in the silence of slumber, except for the wailing of the native women for their dead. The next morning they set out upon the return march.
Ten loaded hammocks retarded its pace.
I only grieve that I could not have died for him, or at least with him.
I wish that you could have known him better, Monsieur.
Did you find no trace of him?" "We were too late, Miss Porter," he replied sadly. "Tell me.
And I fancy I jolly well deserved it," he added thoughtfully.
Clayton, my boy, I know you are tired out and unstrung, but that's no reason why you should make an ass of yourself.
You'd better go to bed." But before he did so he called gently to Jane upon the opposite side of the sailcloth partition, for he wished to apologize, but he might as well have addressed the Sphinx.
My only excuse is that my nerves must be unstrung-which is no excuse at all. Please try and think that I did not say it.
I would not have hurt _you_, above all others in the world.
Say that you forgive me. WM.
She was sorry that she had ever seen the forest god.
And there was that other note she had found in the grass before the cabin the day after her return from the jungle, the love note signed by Tarzan of the Apes. Who could be this new suitor?
If he were another of the wild denizens of this terrible forest what might he not do to claim her? "Esmeralda!
You make me so irritable, sleeping there peacefully when you know perfectly well that the world is filled with sorrow." "Gaberelle!" screamed Esmeralda, sitting up.
Where is he, Miss Jane?" "Nonsense, Esmeralda, there is nothing.
You are bad enough asleep, but you are infinitely worse awake." "Yes honey, but what's the matter with you, precious?
You acts sort of disgranulated this evening." "Oh, Esmeralda, I'm just plain ugly to-night," said the girl.
Don't pay any attention to me-that's a dear." "Yes, honey; now you go right to sleep.
The man turned, and rising, came toward the shelter.
In half an hour he was back with fruit and a hollow gourd-like vegetable filled with water. D'Arnot drank and ate a little.
Can you read this language? D'Arnot seized the pencil-then he stopped.
This strange man wrote English-evidently he was an Englishman. "Yes," said D'Arnot, "I read English.
Now we may talk. First let me thank you for all that you have done for me." The man only shook his head and pointed to the pencil and the bark. "_Mon Dieu!_" cried D'Arnot.
I thank you for what you have done for me.
You have saved my life, and all that I have is yours.
With a human being I have never spoken, except once with Jane Porter, by signs.
This is the first time I have spoken with another of my kind through written words. D'Arnot was mystified.
He seized the pencil and wrote: Where is Jane Porter? And Tarzan replied, below: Back with her people in the cabin of Tarzan of the Apes. She is not dead then?
What happened to her? She is not dead.
I am Tarzan of the Apes-mighty fighter. D'Arnot wrote: I am glad she is safe.
It pains me to write, I will rest a while. And then Tarzan: Yes, rest.
When you are well I shall take you back to your people. For many days D'Arnot lay upon his bed of soft ferns.
The second day a fever had come and D'Arnot thought that it meant infection and he knew that he would die. An idea came to him.
I will write a message that you may take to them, and they will follow you. Tarzan shook his head and taking the bark, wrote: I had thought of that-the first day; but I dared not.
The great apes come often to this spot, and if they found you here, wounded and alone, they would kill you. D'Arnot turned on his side and closed his eyes.
He did not wish to die; but he felt that he was going, for the fever was mounting higher and higher.
It was as they had feared.
The cabin was deserted. The men turned and looked at one another.
He would go away, far into the jungle and join his tribe.
Never would he see one of his own kind again, nor could he bear the thought of returning to the cabin.
He would leave that forever behind him with the great hopes he had nursed there of finding his own race and becoming a man among men. And the Frenchman?
He could get along as Tarzan had.
Tarzan did not want to see him more.
He wanted to get away from everything that might remind him of Jane. As Tarzan stood upon the threshold brooding, D'Arnot had entered the cabin.
Many comforts he saw that had been left behind.
The other, in a woman's hand, was sealed. "Here are two messages for you, Tarzan of the Apes," cried D'Arnot, turning toward the door; but his companion was not there. D'Arnot walked to the door and looked out.
Tarzan was nowhere in sight. He called aloud but there was no response. "_Mon Dieu!_" exclaimed D'Arnot, "he has left me.
He could not understand. The Frenchman looked about him.
It was awful. And far to the east Tarzan of the Apes was speeding through the middle terrace back to his tribe.
Never had he traveled with such reckless speed.
He felt that he was running away from himself-that by hurtling through the forest like a frightened squirrel he was escaping from his own thoughts.
You will not run away from one of your own people, because one of them has run away from you." D'Arnot closed the cabin door.
Even brave men, and D'Arnot was a brave man, are sometimes frightened by solitude. He loaded one of the rifles and placed it within easy reach.
Then he went to the desk and took up the unsealed letter addressed to Tarzan. Possibly it contained word that his people had but left the beach temporarily.
CECIL CLAYTON. "'Never to return,'" muttered D'Arnot, and threw himself face downward upon the cot. An hour later he started up listening.
This court finds the defendant not guilty, and the cruiser shall wait a few days longer that he may have an opportunity to come and thank the divine Portia." "For the Lord's sake honey," cried Esmeralda.
You all don't mean to tell ME that you're going to stay right here in this here land of carnivable animals when you all got the opportunity to escapade on that boat?
Don't you tell me THAT, honey." "Why, Esmeralda!
You should be ashamed of yourself," cried Jane.
Is this any way to show your gratitude to the man who saved your life twice?" "Well, Miss Jane, that's all jest as you say; but that there forest man never did save us to stay here.
He done save us so we all could get AWAY from here.
I never have been able to find the right word for them but that's it, don't you know, lonesome noises." "You and Esmeralda had better go and live on the cruiser," said Jane, in fine scorn.
What would you think if you HAD to live all of your life in that jungle as our forest man has done?" "I'm afraid I'd be a blooming bounder as a wild man," laughed Clayton, ruefully.
Those noises at night make the hair on my head bristle.
I suppose that I should be ashamed to admit it, but it's the truth." "I don't know about that," said Lieutenant Charpentier.
Those eyes will be glaring at him to-night, and at your comrade Lieutenant D'Arnot.
Can you leave them, gentlemen, without at least rendering them the passive succor which remaining here a few days longer might insure them?" "Tut, tut, child," said Professor Porter.
At the end of that time it was to be assumed that D'Arnot was truly dead, and that the forest man would not return while they remained.
Who could have taken it?" cried Professor Porter. "God only knows, Professor," replied Clayton.
We might have thought the fellow who guided us was lying about the location, but his surprise and consternation on finding no chest beneath the body of the murdered Snipes were too real to be feigned.
I would as soon suspect my dear Clayton here, or Mr. Philander." The Frenchmen smiled, both officers and sailors.
It was plain to see that a burden had been lifted from their minds. "The treasure has been gone for some time," continued Clayton.
You remember that it took four men to carry it." "By jove!" cried Clayton.
It must have been done by a party of blacks.
Probably one of them saw the men bury the chest and then returned immediately after with a party of his friends, and carried it off." "Speculation is futile," said Professor Porter sadly.
But if I did not believe, still should I love.
At length he handed it to D'Arnot. The Frenchman had been watching him, and knew that Tarzan was puzzled over the envelope.
How strange it seemed that to a full-grown white man an envelope was a mystery.
How could she have pretended love, and raised him to such a pinnacle of hope only to cast him down to such utter depths of despair! Maybe her kisses were only signs of friendship.
We should die long before we reached them." "Do you wish to stay here then forever?" asked Tarzan. "No," said D'Arnot. "Then we shall start to-morrow.
I do not like it here longer.
I should rather die than remain here." "Well," answered D'Arnot, with a shrug, "I do not know, my friend, but that I also would rather die than remain here.
If you go, I shall go with you." "It is settled then," said Tarzan.
I will work for it, then." "No, my friend," returned D'Arnot, "you need not worry about money, nor need you work for it.
I have enough money for two-enough for twenty. Much more than is good for one man and you shall have all you need if ever we reach civilization." So on the following day they started north along the shore.
No civilized men eat raw flesh." "There will be time enough when I reach civilization," said Tarzan.
I do not like the things and they only spoil the taste of good meat." For a month they traveled north.
Sometimes finding food in plenty and again going hungry for days. They saw no signs of natives nor were they molested by wild beasts. Their journey was a miracle of ease. Tarzan asked questions and learned rapidly.
But, my dear fellow, we have now been three weeks upon the march.
You may go on toward civilization, and I will return for the treasure.
I can go very much faster alone." "I have a better plan, Tarzan," exclaimed D'Arnot.
We shall go on together to the nearest settlement, and there we will charter a boat and sail back down the coast for the treasure and so transport it easily.
That will be safer and quicker and also not require us to be separated.
What do you think of that plan?" "Very well," said Tarzan.
When I see how helpless you are, D'Arnot, I often wonder how the human race has escaped annihilation all these ages which you tell me about.
Why, Sabor, single handed, could exterminate a thousand of you." D'Arnot laughed. "You will think more highly of your genus when you have seen its armies and navies, its great cities, and its mighty engineering works.
But Kerchak could never think far enough ahead to take advantage of any such opportunity.
Even Kala, my mother, could never plan ahead.
She was a great, fine ape, larger than I, and weighing twice as much." "And your father?" asked D'Arnot. "I did not know him.
Kala told me he was a white ape, and hairless like myself.
I know now that he must have been a white man." D'Arnot looked long and earnestly at his companion. "Tarzan," he said at length, "it is impossible that the ape, Kala, was your mother.
If such a thing can be, which I doubt, you would have inherited some of the characteristics of the ape, but you have not-you are pure man, and, I should say, the offspring of highly bred and intelligent parents.
Tarzan of the Apes, what think you?" asked D'Arnot.
Does not this little book clear up the mystery of your parentage? "Why, man, you are Lord Greystoke." "The book speaks of but one child," he replied.
I am afraid that Kala spoke the truth," he concluded sadly. D'Arnot shook his head.
I prefer to be the killer." "Maybe they are friends," suggested D'Arnot. "They are black," was Tarzan's only reply. And again he drew back his shaft. "You must not, Tarzan!" cried D'Arnot.
White men do not kill wantonly. _Mon Dieu!_ but you have much to learn. "I pity the ruffian who crosses you, my wild man, when I take you to Paris.
I will have my hands full keeping your neck from beneath the guillotine." Tarzan lowered his bow and smiled. "I do not know why I should kill the blacks back there in my jungle, yet not kill them here.
Suppose Numa, the lion, should spring out upon us, I should say, then, I presume: Good morning, Monsieur Numa, how is Madame Numa; eh?" "Wait until the blacks spring upon you," replied D'Arnot, "then you may kill them.
We are friends!" "Halt, then!" was the reply. "Stop, Tarzan!" cried D'Arnot.
A man of his prowess who has spent some time in Africa, as I understand Monsieur Tarzan has, must have had experiences with lions-yes?" "Some," replied Tarzan, dryly.
Enough to know that each of you are right in your judgment of the characteristics of the lions-you have met.
Today we may go out and stumble upon a lion which is over-timid-he runs away from us.
To-morrow we may meet his uncle or his twin brother, and our friends wonder why we do not return from the jungle.
Tarzan afraid! "I do not exactly understand what you mean by fear," said Tarzan.
Like lions, fear is a different thing in different men, but to me the only pleasure in the hunt is the knowledge that the hunted thing has power to harm me as much as I have to harm him.
Is it not so?" "No," replied Tarzan.
Only a fool performs any act without reason." "Five thousand francs is a reason," said the other.
Numa walks abroad at night-it will be easier to find him." "No," said the other, "I do not want your blood upon my hands.
Ah, how he loved it!
Civilization held nothing like this in its narrow and circumscribed sphere, hemmed in by restrictions and conventionalities.
Even clothes were a hindrance and a nuisance. At last he was free.
What was that?" suddenly cried one of the party, an Englishman, as Tarzan's savage cry came faintly to their ears. "I heard the same thing once before," said a Belgian, "when I was in the gorilla country.
From infancy to senility the fingerprints of an individual change only in size, except as injuries alter the loops and whorls.
But if imprints have been taken of the thumb and four fingers of both hands one must needs lose all entirely to escape identification." "It is marvelous," exclaimed D'Arnot.
Now place them in just the same position upon this card, here, no-a little to the right.
We must leave room for the thumb and the fingers of the left hand.
Now the same with the left." "Come, Tarzan," cried D'Arnot, "let's see what your whorls look like." Tarzan complied readily, asking many questions of the officer during the operation. "Do fingerprints show racial characteristics?" he asked.
I should hate to trust its findings further than to differentiate between individuals.
No two people born into the world probably have ever had identical lines upon all their digits.
Those little fingers are buried on the west coast of Africa." "I do not know as to that, Tarzan," replied D'Arnot.
The policeman looked up, and, catching his eye, raised his finger to admonish silence.
I therefore ask that you leave the entire matter in my hands until Monsieur Desquerc, our expert returns.
It will be but a matter of a few days." "I had hoped to know at once," said D'Arnot.
Monsieur Tarzan sails for America tomorrow." "I will promise that you can cable him a report within two weeks," replied the officer; "but what it will be I dare not say.
Porter fidgeted in his armchair.
The subject always made him uncomfortable.
He could not understand why.
Canler was a splendid match. "But Jane," continued Canler, "I cannot understand her.
She puts me off first on one ground and then another.
I have always the feeling that she breathes a sigh of relief every time I bid her good-by." "Tut, tut," said Professor Porter.
Jane is a most obedient daughter.
She will do precisely as I tell her." "Then I can still count on your support?" asked Canler, a tone of relief marking his voice. "Certainly, sir; certainly, sir," exclaimed Professor Porter.
How could you doubt it?" "There is young Clayton, you know," suggested Canler.
He has been hanging about for months.
The tenants have always made a living from it, and been able to send Jane a trifle beside, each year.
She is planning on our going up there the first of the week. Philander and Mr. Clayton have already gone to get things in readiness for us." "Clayton has gone there?" exclaimed Canler, visibly chagrined.
Why was I not told?
I thought you were alone, papa." "It is only I, Jane," said Canler, who had risen, "won't you come in and join the family group?
We were just speaking of you." "Thank you," said Jane, entering and taking the chair Canler placed for her.
I only wanted to tell papa that Tobey is coming down from the college tomorrow to pack his books.
I want you to be sure, papa, to indicate all that you can do without until fall.
Please don't carry this entire library to Wisconsin, as you would have carried it to Africa, if I had not put my foot down." "Was Tobey here?" asked Professor Porter. "Yes, I just left him.
He and Esmeralda are exchanging religious experiences on the back porch now." "Tut, tut, I must see him at once!" cried the professor.
Excuse me just a moment, children," and the old man hastened from the room. As soon as he was out of earshot Canler turned to Jane. "See here, Jane," he said bluntly.
How long is this thing going on like this?
You haven't refused to marry me, but you haven't promised either.
I want to get the license tomorrow, so that we can be married quietly before you leave for Wisconsin.
Buying me for a few paltry dollars?
You had no idea that the venture would succeed.
You are too good a businessman for that.
You knew the one best way to force me to marry you, without seeming to force me. "You have never mentioned the loan.
In any other man I should have thought that the prompting of a magnanimous and noble character.
But you are deep, Mr. Robert Canler.
I thought you had more self-control-more pride. Of course you are right.
I am buying you, and I knew that you knew it, but I thought you would prefer to pretend that it was otherwise.
I should have thought your self respect and your Porter pride would have shrunk from admitting, even to yourself, that you were a bought woman. But have it your own way, dear girl," he added lightly.
Don't let your father guess.
If you don't tell him he will never notice, and I simply couldn't think of him living in the terrible squalor and sordidness which Mr. Philander and I found.
It was so little when I would like to do so much, Jane.
For his sake, please, never mention it." "But you know that we can't repay you," cried the girl.
Why do you want to put me under such terrible obligations?" "Don't, Jane," said Clayton sadly.
He told me as much before I left Baltimore." The girl winced. "I do not love him," she said, almost proudly. "Is it because of the money, Jane?" She nodded. "Then am I so much less desirable than Canler?
I have money enough, and far more, for every need," he said bitterly. "I do not love you, Cecil," she said, "but I respect you.
If I must disgrace myself by such a bargain with any man, I prefer that it be one I already despise.
I should loathe the man to whom I sold myself without love, whomsoever he might be.
She would not let Clayton accompany her.
She wanted to be alone, she said, and he respected her wishes. In the house Professor Porter and Mr. Philander were immersed in an absorbing discussion of some weighty scientific problem.
Without a pause he rushed into the house.
On the couch lay Clayton.
The man started in surprise, but with a bound was at the side of the sleeping man. Shaking him roughly by the shoulder, he cried: "My God, Clayton, are you all mad here?
Don't you know you are nearly surrounded by fire?
Where is Miss Porter?" Clayton sprang to his feet.
He did not recognize the man, but he understood the words and was upon the veranda in a bound. "Scott!" he cried, and then, dashing back into the house, "Jane!
If I find Miss Porter we shall need it.
If I don't, no one will need it.
He called me by name and he knew Jane, for he asked for her.
And he called Esmeralda by name." "There was something most startlingly familiar about him," exclaimed Mr. Philander, "And yet, bless me, I know I never saw him before." "Tut, tut!" cried Professor Porter.
It rang strong and clear, but in a strange voice. "Here!" she called in reply.
It was he! "My forest man!" she murmured.
No, I must be delirious!" "Yes, your man, Jane Porter.
Your savage, primeval man come out of the jungle to claim his mate-the woman who ran away from him," he added almost fiercely. "I did not run away," she whispered.
The wind had changed once more and the fire was burning back upon itself-another hour like that and it would be burned out. "Why did you not return?" she asked. "I was nursing D'Arnot.
He was badly wounded." "Ah, I knew it!" she exclaimed.
They said you had gone to join the blacks-that they were your people." He laughed. "But you did not believe them, Jane?" "No;-what shall I call you?" she asked.
That a man named Canler had come up here to wed you.
Is that true?" "Yes." "Do you love him?" "No." "Do you love me?" She buried her face in her hands. "I am promised to another.
I cannot answer you, Tarzan of the Apes," she cried. "You have answered.
You are no longer a savage beast.
What did he know of himself?
Who, his parents? Why, his very name echoed his mysterious origin and his savage life. He had no name.
Could she be happy with this jungle waif?
Could she bear to think of sinking to his?
Would either be happy in such a horrible misalliance? "You do not answer," he said.
Do you shrink from wounding me?" "I do not know what answer to make," said Jane sadly.
I do not know my own mind." "You do not love me, then?" he asked, in a level tone. "Do not ask me.
You will be happier without me.
I shall not urge you, for I would rather see you happy than to be happy myself.
I see now that you could not be happy with-an ape." There was just the faintest tinge of bitterness in his voice. "Don't," she remonstrated.
You have saved us all.
You called me by name at the cottage, but I do not seem to recall yours, though there is something very familiar about you.
It is as though I had known you well under very different conditions a long time ago." Tarzan smiled as he took the proffered hand. "You are quite right, Monsieur Clayton," he said, in French.
You will pardon me if I do not speak to you in English.
I had hoped, er-I had thought or-er-how very happy we should be that he was not caught in the fire," he ended lamely. "Tut, tut!
Mr. Philander," said Professor Porter.
I have often admonished my pupils to count ten before speaking.
Were I you, Mr. Philander, I should count at least a thousand, and then maintain a discreet silence." "Bless me, yes!" acquiesced Mr. Philander.
I feared the worst, until I saw your car, Clayton.
I was cut off on the south road and had to go away back to town, and then strike east to this road.
I thought we'd never reach the cottage." No one seemed to enthuse much.
Tarzan eyed Robert Canler as Sabor eyes her prey. Jane glanced at him and coughed nervously. "Mr. Canler," she said, "this is Monsieur Tarzan, an old friend." Canler turned and extended his hand.
Mr. Tousley, Miss Porter." Mr. Tousley bowed and beamed. Canler introduced him to the others. "We can have the ceremony at once, Jane," said Canler.
Then you and I can catch the midnight train in town." Tarzan understood the plan instantly.
He glanced out of half-closed eyes at Jane, but he did not move. The girl hesitated.
The room was tense with the silence of taut nerves. All eyes turned toward Jane, awaiting her reply. "Can't we wait a few days?" she asked.
I have been through so much today." Canler felt the hostility that emanated from each member of the party. It made him angry. "We have waited as long as I intend to wait," he said roughly.
You have promised to marry me.
I shall be played with no longer.
I have the license and here is the preacher.
Come Mr. Tousley; come Jane.
But her fears were more for Tarzan than for Canler.
I do not wish you to become a murderer." Tarzan removed his hand from Canler's throat. "Do you release her from her promise?" he asked.
By what right, sir, did you interfere between my daughter and Mr. Canler?
That is enough for me to know." "You do not know what you have done," said Professor Porter.
What do you mean, sir?" "Your treasure has been found," said Tarzan. "What-what is that you are saying?" cried the professor.
It cannot be." "It is, though.
It was I who stole it, not knowing either its value or to whom it belonged.
I saw the sailors bury it, and, ape-like, I had to dig it up and bury it again elsewhere.
When D'Arnot told me what it was and what it meant to you I returned to the jungle and recovered it.
You have given me the means to save my honor." Clayton, who had left the room a moment after Canler, now returned. "Pardon me," he said.
I think we had better try to reach town before dark and take the first train out of this forest.
Who would ever have thought it possible!
The last time I saw you you were a veritable wild man, skipping about among the branches of a tropical African forest, and now you are driving me along a Wisconsin road in a French automobile.
Your answer may clear up a mystery.
It can do no worse, at any rate, than to leave it still a mystery.
She did not know-now. She glanced at Clayton out of the corner of her eye.
She could see no reason why she could not.
She had not loved him, then.
He was very handsome and every inch a gentleman.
I can make you happy, Jane, in the life you know and love best.
Will you marry me?" For the first time she realized the depths of the man's love-all that he had accomplished in so short a time solely for love of her.
Turning her head she buried her face in her arms. What had she done?
You have admitted that you love me.
You know that I love you; but I do not know the ethics of society by which you are governed.
I shall leave the decision to you, for you know best what will be for your eventual welfare." "I cannot tell him, Tarzan," she said.
He too, loves me, and he is a good man.
I could never face you nor any other honest person if I repudiated my promise to Mr. Clayton.
They ate pleasant fruit and looked into each other's eyes and smiled.
The message was from D'Arnot. It read: Fingerprints prove you Greystoke.
I say, old man," cried Clayton, "I haven't had a chance to thank you for all you've done for us.
It seems as though you had your hands full saving our lives in Africa and here. "I'm awfully glad you came on here.
We must get better acquainted.
I often thought about you, you know, and the remarkable circumstances of your environment. "If it's any of my business, how the devil did you ever get into that bally jungle?" "I was born there," said Tarzan, quietly.
My mother was an Ape, and of course she couldn't tell me much about it.
I never knew who my father was." FOR THE FURTHER ADVENTURES OF LORD GREYSTOKE READ THE RETURN OF TARZAN
They suggested that INTER.PACT Press take the unprece- dented, and maybe slightly crazy, step to put "Terminal Compro- mise" on the Global Network thus creating a new category for book publishers.
The idea is to offer "Terminal Compromise," and perhaps other titles at NOVEL-ON-THE-NET SHAREWARE(tm) rates to millions of people who just don't spend a lot of time in book- stores.
After discussions with dozens of people - maybe even more than a hundred - we decided to do just that.
So, I guess we're making news as well as providing a service to the world's electronic community.
The recommended NOVEL-ON-THE-NET SHAREWARE fees are outlined later (this is how we stay in business), so please read on. WE KEEP THE COPYRIGHTS! "Terminal Compromise" is NOT being entered into the public domain.
It is being distributed electronically so hundreds of thousands more people can enjoy it and understand just where we are heading with our omnipresent interconnectedness and the potential dangers we face.
Or is it? TERMINAL COMPROMISE: SYNOPSIS "It's all about the information . . . the information." From "Sneakers" Taki Homosoto, silver haired Chairman of Japan's huge OSO Indus- tries, survived Hiroshima; his family didn't.
Homosoto promises revenge against the United States before he dies.
His passion- ate, almost obsessive hatred of everything American finally comes to a head when he acts upon his desires. With unlimited resources, he comes up with the ultimate way to strike back at the enemy.
Miles Foster, a brilliant 33 year old mathematician apparently isn't exactly fond of America either. The National Security Agency wanted his skills, but his back- ground and "family" connections kept him from advancing within the intelligence community.
His insatiable - borderline psychotic- sex drive balances the intensity of waging war against his own country to the highest bidder. Scott Mason, made his fortune selling high tech toys to the Pentagon.
Tyrone provides the inside government track and confusion from competing agencies to deal with the threats.
His altruistic and somewhat pure innate view of the world finally makes him do the right thing. As Homosoto's plan evolves, Arab zealots, German intelligence agents and a host of technical mercenaries find the weaknesses in our techno-economic infrastructure.
Victims find themselves under attack by unseen adversaries; Wall Street suffers debili- tating blows; Ford and Chrysler endure massive shut downs.
Sex, drugs, rock'n'roll: Tokyo, Vienna, Paris, Iraq, Iran.
So please, let us continue this form of publishing in the future. NOVEL-ON-THE-NET SHAREWARE Fees For The People: The suggested donation for individuals is $7.
If you hate Termi- nal Compromise after reading it, then only send $6.50.
If you're really, really broke, then tell a hundred other people how great it was, send us a rave review and post it where you think others will enjoy reading it, too.
If you're only a little broke, send a few dollars.
After all, this is how we stay in business.
It's a great way to increase security awareness amongst this country's 50,000,000 rank and file computer users.
Plus, it's a hell of a good read. One company plans on releasing a chapter every few days throughout its E-Mail system as a combination of security aware- ness and employee 'perc'.
Try it; it works and your employees will appreciate it.
Would you like us to coordinate a special distribution program for you?
Would you like in Postscript or other visual formats?
Recognized Educational institu- tions are entitled to use "Terminal Compromise" at NO COST, as long as you register with us that you are doing so.
Please pro- vide: School name, address, etc., the course, the instructor, and the reason for using it.
Also, we'd like to hear from you and tell us how it went.
It's not the smartest thing in the world to send cash through the mail.
It is available from bookstores nationwide for $19.95, or from Inter.Pact directly for $19.95 + $3.50 shipping and handling.
Maybe it doesn't matter and they're the same after all.
I found that if this story was to be told, I had to accept the fact that it would always be unfinished.
The battle of the computers is one without an end in sight. This story is an attempt to merge the facts as they are with the possibilities.
The delineation between fact and fiction is clouded because the fiction of yesterday is the fact, the news, of today.
That was an accident necessi- tated by a need to reach the largest possible audience. In fact, a lot of things have surprised me since "Terminal Com- promise" was first published.
If the reader doesn't want to hear about my friends, please move on to the next chapter. Mary C.
Thanks for the flashlight. Lazarus Cuttman.
The greatest editor a writer has ever had.
He kept me honest. Miles Roban.
He's the one who told me about the real NSA.
They haven't found him yet, despite an intensive internal NSA search.
We need more people like 'Miles' who are willing to break down the conventional barriers of secu- rity on issues that affect us all.) Dad.
God rest. Winn Schwartau, July, 1993 **************************************************************** "Terminal Compromise" is dedicated to: Sherra There is no adequate way to say thank you.
You are the super-glue of the family.
In all of his professional political life, not even his closest aids or his wife had ever seen him so totally out of character.
You don't have a game plan?
What the hell have we been doing for the last 12 years?
The President bellowed as loudly as anyone could remember.
No one in the room answered.
The President glared right through each of his senior aides. "Damage Assessment Potential?
The President said abruptly as he forced a fork full of scrambled eggs into his mouth. "The Federal Reserve and most Banking transactions come to a virtual standstill.
Airlines grounded save for emergency opera- tions.
Telephone communications running at 30% or less of capacity.
No Federal payments for weeks.
Do you want me to continue?" "No, I get the picture." The President wished to God he wouldn't be remembered as the President who allowed the United States of America to slip back- ward 50 years.
He waited for the steam in his collar to subside before saying anything he might regret. * * * * * Monday, August 6, 1945. Japan The classroom was coming to order.
Shinzo Ito, the 12th graders' instructor was running a few minutes late and the students were in a fervent discussion about the impending end to the war.
And of course it was to be a Japanese victory over the American Mongrels. Ito-san was only 19 years old, and most of the senior class was only a year or two younger than he.
The war had deeply affected all of them.
The children of Japan were well acquainted with suffering and pain as families were wrenched apart - literally at the seams, and expected to hold themselves together by the honor that their sacrifices represented.
They hardened, out of neces- sity, in order to survive and make it through the next day, the next week; and so they knew much about the war.
Since so many of the men had gone to war, women and children ran the country.
10 and 11 year old students from the schools worked as phone opera- tors.
It was an honorable cause, and everyone contributed; it was only fitting.
Their fathers and loved ones were fighting self- lessly and winning the war. Many of the children's fathers had gone to war, valiantly, and many had not come home.
Many came home in pieces, many others, unrecognizable.
And when some fathers had gone off to war, both they and their families knew that would never return.
They were making the Supreme Sacrifice for their country, and more impor- tantly, a contribution to their honorable way of life. The sons and daughters of kamikazes were treated with near rever- ence.
It was widely believed that their father's honor was handed down to their offspring as soon as word had been received the mission had been successful.
Albeit a suicide mission. Taki Homosoto was one 17 year old boy so revered for his father's sacrifice.
Taki spoke confidently about such matters, about the war, about American atrocities, and how Japan would soon defeat the round faced enemy.
Taki had understood, on his 17th birthday that his father would leave . . .and assuredly die as was the goal of the kamikaze.
He pretended to understand that it made sense to him. In the last 6 months since his father had left, Taki assumed, at his father's request, the patriarchal role in the immediate family.
The personal anguish had been excruciating.
While friends and family and officials praised Taki's father and fami- ly, inside Taki did not accept that a man could willingly leave his family, his children, him . . .Taki, never to return.
Didn't his father love him?
Or his sister and brother?
Or his mother? Taki's mother got a good job at one of the defense plants that permeated Hiroshima, while Taki and his brother and sister con- tinued their schooling.
But the praise, the respect didn't make up for not having a father to talk to, to play with and to study with.
He loved his mother, but she wasn't a father. So Taki compensated and overcompensated and pretended that his father's sacrifice was just, and good, and for the better of society, and the war effort and his family.
Taki spoke as a juvenile expert on the war and the good of Japan and the bad of the United States and the filthy Americans with their unholy practices and perverted ways of life, and how they tortured Japanese prisoners.
Taki was an eloquent and convincing orator to his piers and instructors alike. At 8:15 A.M., the Hiroshima radio station, NHK, rang its old school bell.
The bell was part of a warning system that an- nounced impending attacks from the air, but it had been so over- used that it was mostly ignored.
The tolls from the bell were barely noticed by the students or the teachers in the Honkawa School.
Taki though, looked out the window toward the Aioi Bridge.
His ears perked and his eyes scanned the clear skies over downtown Hiroshima.
He was sure he heard something . . .but no . . . The first sensation of motion in the steel reinforced building came long seconds after the blinding light.
Blindness was instant for those who saw the sky ignite. The classroom was collapsing around them.
In the air was the noise of a thousand trains at once...even louder.
In seconds the schoolhouse was in rubble. The United States of American had just dropped the Atomic Bomb on Hiroshima, Japan.
This infamous event would soon be known as ayamachi - the Great Mistake. * * * * * Tuesday, August 7, 1945 Taki Homosoto opened his eyes.
He knew he was laying on his back, but all else was a clutter of confusion.
He saw a dark ceiling, to what he didn't know and he hurt He turned his head and saw he was on a cot, maybe a bed, in a long corridor with many others around him.
The room reeked of human waste and death. "Ah . . .you are awake.
It has been much time.
The voice came from behind him.
He turned his head rapidly and realized he shouldn't have.
The pain speared him from his neck to the base of his spine.
Taki grimaced and made a feeble attempt at whim- pering.
He said nothing as he examined the figure in the white coat who spoke again.
You are a very lucky young man, not many made it." What was he talking about . . .made it?
His brain wanted to speak but his mouth couldn't.
A slight gurgling noise ushered from his throat but nothing else.
And the pain . . .it was everywhere at once . . .all over . . .he wanted to cry for help . . .but was unable.
The pain overtook Taki Homosoto and the vision of the doctor blackened until there was no more. Much later, Taki reawoke.
He assumed it was a long time later, he been awake earlier . . .or had that been a dream.
The doctor...no he was in school and the earthquake . . .yes, the earthquake . . .why don't I remember?
As his eyes adjusted to the room, he saw and remembered that it wasn't a dream.
He saw the other cots, so many of them, stretching in every direction amidst the cries of pain and sighs of death. Taki tried to cry out to a figure walking nearby but only a low pitched moan ushered forth.
Then he noticed something odd . . .and odd smell.
It was foul . . .the stench of burned . . .burned what?
The odor made him sick and he tried to breathe through his mouth but the awful odor still penetrated his glands.
Taki knew that he was very hurt and very sick and so were a lot of others.
It took him some time, and a lot of energy just to clear his thoughts.
Thinking hurt - it concentrated the aching in his head, but the effort took away some of his other pain, or at least it successfully distracted him focussing on it. There were cries from all around.
Many were incomprehensible babblings, obviously in agony.
Screams of "Eraiyo!", ("the pain is unbearable!") were constant.
Others begged to be put out of their misery.
Taki actually felt fortunate; he couldn't have screamed if he had wanted to, but out of guilt he no longer felt the need to. Finally, the same doctor, was it the same doctor? appeared over his bed again.
I hope you'll stay with us for a few minutes?" The doctor smiled.
Taki responded as best he could.
With a grunt and the raising and lowering his eyelids.
Let me just say that you are in very good condition . . .much better than the others," the doctor gestured across the room.
I don't mean to sound cruel, but, we do need your bed, for those seriously hurt." The doctor sounded truly distraught.
What had happened? A terrified look crossed Taki's face that ceded into a facial plead.
His look said, "I can't speak so answer my questions . . .you must know what they are.
We must all be brave.
Ameri- ca has used a terrible weapon upon the people of Japan.
A spe- cial new bomb so terrible that Hiroshima is no longer even a shadow of itself.
A weapon where the sky turns to fire and build- ings and our people melt . . .where the water sickens the living and those who seem well drop in their steps from an invisible enemy.
Almost half of the people of Hiroshima are dead or dying. As I said, you are a lucky one." Taki helped over the next days at the Communications Hospital in what was left of downtown Hiroshima.
When he wasn't tending to the dying, he moved the dead to the exits so the bodies could be cremated, the one way to insure eternal salvation.
The city got much of its light from pyres for weeks after the blasts. He helped distribute the kanpan and cold rice balls to the very few doctors and to survivors who were able to eat.
He walked the streets of Hiroshima looking for food, supplies, anything that could help.
Walking through the rubble of what once was Hiroshi- ma fueled his hate and his loathing for Americans.
They had wrought this suffering by using their pikadon, or flash-boom weapon, on civilians, women and children.
He saw death, terrible, ugly death, everywhere; from Hijiyama Hill to the bridges a cross the wide Motoyas River. The Aioi bridge spontaneously became an impromptu symbol for vengeance against the Americans.
Taki crossed the remnants of the old stone bridge, which was to be the hypocenter of the blast if the Enola Gay hadn't missed its target by 800 feet.
A tall blond man in an American military uniform was tied to a stone post.
He was an American POW, one of 23 in Hiroshima.
A few dozen people, women in bloodstained kimonos and mompei and near naked children were hurling rocks and insults at the lifeless body.
He found himself mindlessly joining in. He threw rocks at the head, the body, the legs.
He threw rocks and yelled.
He threw rocks and yelled at the remains of the dead serviceman until his arms and lungs ached. Another 50,000 Japanese died from the effects of radiation within days while Taki continued to heal physically.
On August 17, 9 days after the atomic bombing of Nagasaki and 2 days after Emper- or Hirohito's broadcast announcing Japan's surrender, a typhoon swamped Hiroshima and killed thousands more.
Taki blamed the Americans for the typhoon, too. Taki was alone for the first time in his life.
His family dead, even his little sister.
The NBS establishes exactly what the time is, to the nearest millionth of a millionth of a second.
They make sure that we weigh things to the accuracy of the weight of an individual atom.
The NCSC's charter in life is to establish standards and procedures for securing the US Government's comput- ers from compromise. 1985's high point was an award banquet with slightly ribald speeches.
Otherwise the conference was essentially a maze of highly complex presentations, meaningless to anyone not well versed in computers, security and government-speak.
An attend- ee's competence could be well gauged by his use of acronyms.
If the IRS had DAC across its X.25 gateways, it could integrate X9.17 management, DES, MAC and X9.9 could be used throughout. Save the government a bunch!
Yeah, but the DoD had an RFI for an RFQ that became a RFP, specced by NSA and based upon TD-80-81. It was isolated, environmentally speaking.
Incredibly boring, but it was his job to sit, listen and learn. Miles Foster was a security and communications analyst with the National Security Agency at Fort Meade, Maryland.
It was a mathe- matical presentation entitled, "Propagation Tendencies in Self Replicating Software".
It was the one subject title from the conference guide about which he knew nothing.
Proof of Attendance. SUBJECT: Dr. Les Brown - Professor of Computer Science, Sheffield Univer- sity.
Dr. Brown presented an updated version of his PhD thesis. CONTENTS: Dr. Brown spoke about unique characteristics of certain software that can be written to be self-replicating.
Dr. Brown presented convincing evidence that such propagative effects can bypass existing pro- tective mechanisms in sensitive data processing environments. There is indeed reason to believe that software of this nature might have certain offensive military applications.
Meade, Maryland. Thousands of disk drives spun rapidly, at over 3600 rpm.
The massive computer room, Computer Room C-12, gently whirred and droned with a life of its own.
Rats nests of wire and cable crept along the floor and in and out of the control centers for the hundreds of millions of dollars of the most sophisticated computers in the world.
Only five years ago, computing power of this magnitude, now fit in a room the size of an average house would have filled the Pentagon.
All of this, all of this power, for one man. Miles Foster was locked in a room without windows.
It contained a table, 4 chairs, and he was sure a couple of cameras and micro- phones.
From C-12, a group of IAS officers began to accumulate information about Miles Foster from a vast array of computer memory banks. They could dial up any major computer system within the United States, and most around the world.
The purpose, ostensibly, of having such power was to centralize and make more efficient security checks on government employees, defense contractors and others who might have an impact on the country's national securi- ty.
Computer Room C-12 is one of only two electronic doors into the National Data Base - a digital reposi- tory containing the sum total knowledge and working profiles of every man, woman and child in the United States.
The other secret door that guards America's privacy is deep within the bowels of the Pentagon. From C-12, IAS accessed every bank record in the country in Miles' name, social security number or in that of his immediate family.
They had printouts, within seconds, of all of their last year's credit card activity.
They pulled 3 years tax records from the IRS, medical records from the National Medical Data Base which connects hospitals nationwide, travel records from American carriers, customs checks, video rental history, telephone records, stock purchases.
While Miles was more than willing to tell them his feelings, and the real reasons behind his resignation, they wanted to make sure that there weren't a few little details he wasn't telling them.
Like, perhaps gam- bling debts, women on the side, (he was single) or women on the wrong side, overextended financial obligations, anything unusual. Had he suddenly come into money and if he did, where did he get it?
Blackmail was considered a very real possibility when unex- pected personnel changes occur. The files vindicated Miles Foster of any obvious financial anoma- lies.
Not that he knew he needed vindication.
He owned a Potomac condominium in D.C., a 20 minutes against traffic commute to Fort Meade where he had worked for years, almost his entire profes- sional life.
He traveled some, Caribbean cruises, nothing osten- tatious but in style, had a reasonable savings account, only used 2 credit cards and he owed no one anything significant.
There was nothing unusual about his file at all, unless you think that living within ones means is odd.
Miles Foster knew how to make the most out of a dollar.
Miles Foster was clean. The walls of his drab 12 foot square prison room were a dirty shade of government gray.
There was an old map on the wall and Miles noticed that the gray paint behind the it was 7 shades lighter than the surrounding paint.
Also prominent on each file cabinet was a tissue box sized padlock. Miles was alone, again.
When the IAS people questioned him, they were hard on him.
But most of the time he was alone. Miles paced the room during the prolonged waits.
Miles wasn't a fitness nut, but he enjoyed the results of staying in shape - women, lots of women.
He had a lightly tanned Mediterranean skin, dark, almost black wavy hair on the longish side but immac- ulately styled.
His demeanor dripped elegance, even when he wore torn jeans, and he knew it.
It was merely another personal asset that Miles had learned how to use to his best advantage.
He had a face that would permit him to assume any age from 20 to 40, but given his borderline arrogance, he called it aloofness, most considered him the younger.
A frown could mean, "I'm real angry, seriously", or "I'm just giving you shit", or "You bore me, go away", or more to Miles' purpose, "You're gorgeous, I wanna fuck your brains out".
His dimples could pout with a smile, grin with a sneer, emphasize a question; they could accent and augment his mood at will. But now. he was severely bored.
Getting even more disgusted with the entire process.
The IAS wasn't going to find anything.
He had made sure of that.
After all, he was the computer expert. Miles heard the sole door to the room unlock.
It was a heavy, 'I doubt an ax could even get through this' door.
The fourth IAS man to question Miles entered the room as the door was relocked from the other side. "So, tell us again, why did you quit?
The IAS man abruptly blurted out even before sitting in one of the old, World War II vintage chairs by the wooden table. "I've told you a hundred times and you have it on tape a hundred times.
The disgust in his voice was obvious and intended.
I really don't want to go through it again." "Tough shit.
I want to hear it.
You haven't told me yet.
This guy was tougher, Miles thought. "What are you looking for?
For God's sake, what do you want me to say?
You want a lie that you like better?
Tell me what it is and I'll give it back to you, word for word.
Is that what you want?
He showed, for the first time, real anger.
The intellect in Miles saw what the emotion was doing, so his brain quickly secreted a complex string of amino acids to call him down.
Miles decided that he should go back to the naive, 'what did I do?' image and stick to the plan. He put his head in his hands and leaned forward for a second.
He gently shook and looked up sideways.
He was very convincing. The IAS man thought that Miles might be weakening. "I want the fucking truth," the IAS man bellowed.
And I want it now!" Miles sighed.
He was tired and wanted a cigarette so bad he could shit, and that pleasure, too, he was being denied.
But he had prepared himself for this eventuality; serious interrogation. "O.K., O.K.
He paused for another heavy sigh.
I quit 'cause I got sick of the shit.
I like my work, I don't like the bureaucracy that goes with it.
After over 10 years here, I expected some sort of recognition other than a cost of living increase like every other G12.
I want to go private where I'll be appreciated. Maybe even make some money." The IAS man didn't look convinced.
What single event made you quit?
Why this morning, and not yesterday or tomorrow, or the next day, or next week.
The IAS man blew smoke at Miles to annoy him and exaggerate the withdrawal symptoms.
Miles was exhausted and edgy. "Like I said, I got back another 'don't call us, we'll call you' response on my Public-Private key scheme.
They said, 'Not yet practical' and set it up for another review in 18 months.
The end, the proverbial straw that you've been looking for.
Miles tried desperately to minimize any display of arrogance as he looked at the IAS man. "What do you hope to do in the private sector?
Most of your work is classified.
The IAS man remained cool and unflustered. "Plenty of defense guys who do crypto and need a good comm guy.
I think the military call it the revolving door.
Miles' dimpled smugness did not sit well with IAS. "Yeah, you'll probably go to work for your wop friends in Sicily.
The IAS man sarcastically accused. "Hey - you already know about that!
That royally pissed off Miles.
He didn't appreciate any dispersion on his heritage. "They're relatives, that's it.
Holidays, food, turkey, ham, and a bunch of booze.
And besides," Miles paused and smiled, "there's no such thing as the Mafia." By early evening they let him relieve himself and then finally leave the Fort.
He was given 15 minutes to collect his personal items, under guard, and then escorted to the front gate.
All identification was removed and his files were transferred into the 'Monitor' section, where they would sit for at least one year.
The IAS people had finally satisfied themselves that Miles Foster was a dissatisfied, underpaid government employee who had had enough of the immobility and rigidity of a giant bureaucratic machine that moves at a snails pace.
Miles smiled at the end of the interrogation.
Just like I said, he thought, just like I said. There was no record in his psychological profiles, those from the Agency shrinks, that suggested Miles meant anything other than what he claimed.
Let him go, they said.
Nowhere in the records did it show how much he hated his stupid, stupid bosses, the bungling bureaucratic behemoths who didn't have the first idea of what he and his type did.
Nowhere did Miles' frustration and resultant build up of resentment and anger show up in any file or on any chart or graph.
His strong, almost overbearing ego and over developed sense of worth and importance were relegated to a personality quirk common to superbright ambitious engineering types.
It fit the profile. Nowhere, either, was it mentioned that in years at NSA, Miles Foster had submitted over 30 unsolicited proposals for changes in cryptographic and communications techniques to improve the secu- rity of the United States.
Nowhere did it say, they were all turned down, tabled, ignored. At one point or another, Miles had to snap.
The rejection of proposal number thirty-four gave Miles the perfect reason to quit. * * * * * Miles Foster looked 100% Italian despite the fact his father was a pure Irishman.
Stupido, stupido" his grandmother would say while slamming the palm of her hand into forehead.
She was not exactly fond of her daughter marrying outside family.
But, it was a good marriage, 3 great kids, or as good as kids get and Grand- mama tolerated the relationship.
Upon hearing, Miles commented, "Yeah, so?
Everyone knows Uncle Mario's a fag.
Big deal." Mario was a big important guy, and he did business, grownup business.
That was all Miles was supposed to know.
When Miles was 13, Mario thought it would be a good idea for him to become a man.
Only 60 miles from Las Vegas lived the country's only legal brothels.
Miles wasn't going to fool around with any of that street garbage.
Miles should go first class the first time. Pahrump, Nevada is home to the only legalized prostitution in the United States.
Mario drove fast, Miles figured about 130mph, in his Red Ferrari on Highway 10, heading West from Vegas.
Mario was drinking Glen Fetitch, neat, and he steered with only one hand, hardly looking at the road. The inevitable occurred.
Gaining on them, was a Nevada State Trooper.
The flashing lights and siren reminded Mario to slow down and pull over.
He grinned, sipped his drink and Miles worried.
Speeding was against the law.
So was drinking and driving.
The police officer walked over to the driver side of the Ferrari.
Uncle Mario lowered the window to let the officer lean into the car.
As the trooper bent over to look inside the flashy low slung import, Mario pulled out a handgun from under the seat and stuck it into the cop's face. Mario started yelling.
Listen asshole, I wasn't speeding.
Was I? I don't want nothing to go on my insurance.
I gotta good driving record, y'know?
Miles had several strong urges to severely contract his sphincter muscles. "No sir, I wanted to give you a good citizenship citation, for your contributions to the public good.
The cop laughed in Uncle Mario's face. "Good to see you still gotta sensa'humor.
Uncle Mario laughed and put the gun back in his shoulder holster.
Miles stared, dumbfounded, still squeezing his butt cheeks tight. "Eh, Paysan!
Where you going so fired up?
You know the limit's 110?
Bout time the kid took a ride around the world, y'know what I mean?
Miles wasn't sure what he meant, but he was sure it had to do with where he was going to lose his virginity. "Sheeeee-it!
Hey kid, ask for Michelle and take 2 from Column B, then do it once for me!
Even though they weren't, to a 13 year male Italian virgin, Mario and the cop were making fun of him.
I remember my first time.
It was in a pick up truck, out in the desert.
Know what I mean? The cop winked at Miles who was humiliated.
To Miles' relief, Mario finally gave the cop an envelope, while being teasingly reprimanded.
Hey, Mario, take it a little easy out here, will yah?
At least on my watch, huh?" "Yeah, sure.
Ciao." "Ciao." They were off again, doing over 100mph in seconds.
The rest of the evening went as planned.
Miles thanked his uncle in a way that brought tears to Mario's eyes.
Miles said, "You know, Uncle Mario.
When I grow up, I want to be just like you." * * * * * "He's just a boy, Mario!
Miles' mother did not react favorably to the news of her son's manhood.
She was trying to protect him from the influence of her relatives.
Miles was gauged near genius with a pronounced aptitude for mathematics and she didn't want his life to go to waste. His mother had married outside of the family, the organized crime culture, the life one inherits so easily.
She loved her family, knew that they dealt in gambling, some drugs, an occasional rough-up of an opponent, but preferred to ignore it.
She mar- ried a man she loved, not one picked for he, but had lost him 6 years before.
They _could not_ have her son. Her wishes were respected, in the memory of Miles father, and also because it wasn't worth having a crazed Sicilian woman rant- ing and raving all about.
But Miles was delectable bait to the Family.
Miles was titillated with the attention, but he still listened to his mother.
She came before all others.
They praised him so, he always got top honors, the best grades, that he came to re- quire the attention and approval. Living with 5 women and a gay uncle for 11 years had its effect. Miles was incredibly heterosexual.
Not anti-gay at all, not at all.
But he had absolutely no interest in men.
He adored women, largely because of his mother.
He put women on pedestals, and treated them like queens.
Even on a beer budget Miles could convince his lady that they were sailing the Caribbean while baking in the desert suburbs of Las Vegas.
Women succumbed, willingly, to Miles' slightest advance.
He craved the approval, and worked long and hard to perfect his technique.
Miles Foster was soon an expert.
His mother never openly disapproved which Miles took as approval. By the time Miles went off to college study advanced mathematics and get a degree, he had shattered half of the teen-age hearts within 50 miles of Vegas.
Plus, the admiration from his female family had allowed him to convince himself that he was going to change the world.
He was the single most important person that could have an effect on civilization.
Miles was the end-all to be-all.
If Miles said it, it must be so, and he bought into the program.
What his mother or girl friends called self confidence others called conceit and arrogance.
Even obnoxious. His third love, after his mother and himself, was mathematics. He believed in mathematics as the answer to every problem.
All questions can be reduced to formulas and symbols.
Then, once you have them on a piece of paper, or in a computer . . .the answer will appear. His master thesis was on that very subject.
It was a brilliant soliloquy on the reducibility of any multi-dimensional condition to a defined set of measured properties.
He postulated that all phenomenon was discrete in nature and none were continuous. Given that arguable position, he was able to develop a set of mathematical tools that would permit dissection of a problem into much smaller pieces.
Once in manageable sizes, the problem would be worked out piece by piece until the pieces were reassembled as the answer.
It was a tool that had very definite uses in the government. He was recruited by the Government in 1976.
They wanted him to put his ingenious techniques to good use.
The National Security Agency painted an idyllic picture of the ultimate job for a mathematician - the biggest, fastest and best computers in the world at your fingertips.
Always the newest and the best.
What- ever you need, it'll be there.
Super secret important work - oh how his mother would be proud.
Miles accepted, but they never told him the complete truth.
Not that they lied, of course.
It was a high tech desk job that required his particular skills as a mathematician.
The NSA got from Miles what they wanted; his mathematical tools modified to work for govern- ment security projects.
For a couple of years, Miles happily complied - then he got itchy to work on other projects.
After all, he had come up with the idea in the first place, it was time he came up with another.
Time to move on. In typical bureaucratic manner, the only way to get something new done is to write a proposal; enlist support and try to push it through committee.
You not only needed a good idea for a good project, good enough to justify the use of 8 billion dollars worth of computers, but you needed the connec- tions and assistance of others.
You scratch mine, I'll scratch yours. During his tenure at NSA, Miles attempted to institute various programs, procedures, new mathematical modes that might be use- ful.
While technically his concepts were superior, his arro- gance, his better-than-everyone, my shit doesn't stink attitude proved to be an insurmountable political obstacle.
He was unable to ever garner much support for his proposals.
Thus, not one of them was ever taken seriously.
Which compounded the problem and reinforced Miles' increasingly sour attitude towards his employ- er.
However, with dimples in command, Miles successfully masked his disdain.
We're checking up on Foster." "Yessir?
Calling here? "Is he gone?" "Yessir." "Anything?" "No sir." "Good.
Close the file." "Sir?" "Close it.
Forever." * * * * * September, 4 Years Ago Georgetown, Washington, D.C. Miles Foster set up shop in Washington D.C. as a communications security consultant.
He and half of those who lived within driving distance of the Capitol were known as Beltway Bandits, a simultaneously endearing and self-deprecating title given to those who make their living selling products or services to the Federal Government.
Miles was ex-NSA and that was always impres- sive to potential clients.
The day you leave public service all of your knowledge is current, and therefore valuable, especially to companies who want to sell widgets to the government.
As the days and months wear on, new policies, new people, new arrange- ments and confederacies are in place.
Washington's transient nature is probably no more evident than through the political circle where everyone is aware of whom is talking to whom and about what.
This Miles knew, so he stuck out his tentacles to maximize his salability. He restructured his dating habits.
Normally Miles would date women whom he knew he could fuck.
He kept track of their men- strual cycles to make sure they wouldn't waste his time.
If he thought a particular female had extraordinary oral sex skills, he would make sure to seduce when she had her period.
Increased the odds of good blow job. Now though, Miles restricted his dating, temporarily, to those who could help start his career in the private sector.
Fuck the secretary to get to the boss!" he bragged unabashedly. Miles dragged himself to many of the social functions that grease the wheels of motion in Washington.
The elaborate affairs, often at the expense of government contractors and lobbyists, were a highly visible, yet totally legal way to shmooze and booze with the influentia in the nation's capital.
The better parties, the ones for generals, for movers and for shakers, for digni- taries and others of immediate importance, are graced with a generous sprinkling of strikingly beautiful women.
They are paid for by the hosts, for the pleasure of the their guests.
The Washington culture requires that such services are discreetly handled.
The building was a former embassy, which had been discarded long ago by its owners in favor of a neo-modern structure on Reservoir Road.
The house was appointed with a strikingly southern ante-bellum flair, but tastefully done, not overly decorated.
It began at seven, and unless tradition was broken, it would be over by 10 as the last of the girls finds her way into a waiting black limousine with her partner for the night.
Straight politics, Miles thought. 9:30 neared, and Miles felt he had accomplished most of what he had set out to do - meet people, sell himself, play the game, talk the line, do the schtick.
He hadn't, though, yet figured out how he was going to get laid tonight. As he sipped his third Glen Fetitch on the rocks, he spotted a woman whom he hadn't seen that evening.
Maybe she had just arrived, maybe she was leftovers.
Well, it was getting late, and he shouldn't let a woman go to waste, so let's see what she looks like from the front.
She looked aimlessly through the French doors at the backyard flora. Miles sauntered over to her and introduced himself.
He grinned wide, dimples in force, as she turned toward him.
About an inch taller than Miles, she wore her shimmering auburn hair shoulder length.
Perfectly formed full lips and statuesque cheek bones underscored her sweetly intense brown eyes.
Miles went to work, and by 10P.M., he and Stephanie Perkins were on their way to Deja Vu on 22nd. and M Street for drinks and dance.
By 10:30 he had nicknamed her Perky because her breasts stood at constant attention.
By 11:30 they were on their way to Miles' apartment. At 2:00 AM Miles was quite satisfied with himself.
So was Perky. His technique was perfect.
Growing up in a houseful without men taught Miles what women wanted.
He learned how to give it to them, just the way they liked it.
The weekend together was heaven in bed; playing, making love, giggling, ordering in Chinese and pizza.
Playing more, watching I Love Lucy reruns, drinking champagne, and making love.
Miles bounced quarters on her taut stomach and cracked eggs on her exquisitely tight derriere.
By Sunday morning, Miles found that he actually liked Stephanie.
It wasn't that he didn't like his other women, he did.
It was just, well this one was different.
A very strange feeling for Miles Foster. "Miles?
Stephanie asked during another period of blissful after- glow.
She snuggled up against him closer. "Yeah?
He responded by squeezing her buttocks.
His eyes were still closed. "In a minute stud, yes.
She looked up reassuringly at him. "Miles, would you work for anyone?
She kissed his chest. "What do you mean?" he asked in return.
He wasn't in the mood for shop talk. "Like, say, a foreigner, not an American company.
Would you work for them?" "Huh?
I guess so. Why do you ask?
He sounded a tad concerned. "Oh, no reason.
She rubbed him between his legs.
Just curious. I thought you were a consultant, and consultants work for anyone who can pay.
That's all." "I am, and I will, but so what?
He relaxed as Stephanie's hands got the desired result. "Well," she stroked him rhythmically.
I know some people that could use you.
They're not American, that's all.
I didn't know if you cared." "No, I don't care," he sighed.
It's all the same to me.
My former employer would definitely frown on that." "Would you mind if I called them, and maybe you two can get together?
She didn't miss a beat. "No go ahead, call them, anything you want, but can we talk about this later?
Miles begged. * * * * * Miles felt very much uninformed on his way to the Baltimore Washington Airport.
He knew that he was being flown to Tokyo Japan, first class, by a mystery man who had prepaid him $10,000 for a 1 hour meeting.
Not a bad start, he thought.
His reputa- tion obviously preceded him.
Stephanie was hired to recruit him, that was obvious.
He was being used. Wasn't he?
Or had he seduced her and the trip was a bonus?
He still liked Stephanie, just not as much as before.
It never occurred to Miles, not for a second, that Stephanie might not have liked him. At JFK in New York, Miles connected to the 20 hour flight to Tokyo through Anchorage, Alaska.
He had a brief concern that this was the same route that KAL Flight 007 had taken in 1983 before it was shot down by the Soviets, but he was flying an American carrier with a four digit flight number.
He allowed that thought to remove any traces of worry. The flight was a couple of hours out of New York when one of the flight attendants came up to him.
He looked up from the New York City Times he was reading. "I believe you dropped this?
She handed Miles a large sealed envelope.
His name had been written across the front with a large black marker. "Thank you," said Miles.
He took it gratefully. When she left, he opened the strange envelope.
It wasn't his. Inside there was a single sheet of paper.
Miles read it. MR. FOSTER WELCOME TO JAPAN. YOU WILL BE MET AT THE NARITA AIRPORT BY MY DRIVER AND CAR.
THEY ARE AT YOUR DISPOSAL. WE WILL MEET IN MY OFFICE AT 8:00 AM, WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23. ALL ARRANGEMENTS HAVE BEEN MADE FOR YOUR PLEASURES. RESPECTFULLY TAKI HOMOSOTO The name meant nothing to him so he forgot about it.
He had more important things to do.
His membership in the Mile High Club was in jeopardy.
He had not yet made it with a female flight attend- ant. They landed, 18 hours and 1 day later in Tokyo.
Miles was now a member in good standing. * * * * * Thursday, September 3 Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport "DFW, this is American 1137, heading 125 at 3500." "Roger American 1137, got you loud and green.
Maintain 125, full circle 40 miles then 215 for 40." "Traffic Dallas?" "Heavy.
Piled up pretty good." "Sheers?" "None so far.
Ah, you're a '37, you carry a sheer monitor.
Have to baby sit some 0's and '27's.
May be a while." "Roger Dallas.
Maintaining 12 point 5." "Roger 1137." The control tower at DFW airport was busier than normal.
The dozen or so large green radar screens glowed eerily and made the air traffic controllers appear pallid under the haunting light emitted from around the consoles.
Planes were late coming in, late departing, connections were being missed.
Tensions were high on the ground and in the air by both the airline personnel and travelers alike.
It was a chaotic day at Dallas Fort Worth International Airport. "Chad?
Cm'ere," said Paul Gatwick, the newest and youngest, and least burnt out of the day shift flight controllers. Shift supervisor Chad Phillips came right over.
What you got?" He asked looking at the radar screen. "See these three bogies?
Paul pointed at three spots with his finger. "Bogies?
What are those symbols?" "They just appeared, out of nowhere.
I don't think they're there.
And over here," he pointed, "that was Delta 210.
Paul spoke calmly, in the professional manner he was trained.
He looked up at Chad, awaiting instructions. "Mike," Chad said to the controller seated next to Paul.
Switch and copy 14, please.
Chad looked over to Mike's screen and saw the same pattern.
Paul, run a level 2 diagnostic.
What was the Delta pattern?" "Same as the others, circle.
He's at 45 doing a 90 round." "Tell him to hold, and verify on board transponder.
Chad spoke rapidly and his authority wasn't questioned. "Mike, see if we can get any visuals on the bogies.
They might be a bounce." Chad took charge and, especially in this weather, was concerned with safety first and schedules last.
It's getting a little tight up here." "Roger, 1137," Gatwick said nervously.
Something was drastically wrong. "Chad, take a look here!
Another controller urgently called out. His radar monitor had more bogies than Paul's.
I lost a Delta, too, 1258." "What is it?" "37." "Shit," said Chad.
We gotta get these guys wide, they have to know what's happening.
He called over to another controller. "Get on the wire, divert all traffic.
The controllers had the power to close the airport, and direct all flight operations from the tower.
Air- port management wasn't always fond of their autonomy, but the tower's concern was safety at all costs. "Another one's gone," said Paul.
Have they had a recall lately?" The ETMS operator asked the computer for a status on 737's else- where.
Chad, we're not the only ones," she said.
O'Hare and LAX have problems, too." "OK, everybody, listen up," Chad said.
Stack 'em, pack 'em and rack 'em.
Use those outer markers, people.
Tell them to believe their eyes.
Let 'em know their transponders are going.
Then, bring 'em down one by one." The emergency speaker suddenly rang out.
The captain of American 1137 ordered his plane to accelerate ground- ward for 10 seconds, descending 2500 feet, to avoid hitting an oncoming, and lost, DC-9. "Dallas, Mayday, Mayday.
What the fuck's going on down there? This is worse than the freeway . . ." The emergency procedure was one they had practiced over and over, but rarely was it necessary for a full scale test.
The FAA was going to be all over DFW and a dozen other airports within hours, and Chad wanted to be prepared.
He ordered a formal notification to Boeing that they had identified a potentially serious malfunc- tion.
Radar status?" "Nominal," said the shaken American pilot. "Good.
We'll be waiting." * * * * * By 5:00 PM, Pacific time, Boeing was notified by airports across the country that their 737's were having catastrophic transponder failure.
Takeoffs were ordered stopped at major airports and the FAA directed that every 737 be immediately grounded.
Chaos reigned in the airline terminals as delays of several hours to a day were announced for most flights.
Police were needed to quell angry crowds who were stuck thousands of miles from home and were going to miss critical business liaisons.
There is nothing we can do, every airline explained to no avail. Slowly, the planes were brought down, pilots relying on VFR since they couldn't count on any help from the ground.
At airports where weather prohibited VFR landings, and the planes had enough fuel, they were redirected to nearby airports.
Nearly a dozen emergency landings in a two hours period set new records that the FAA preferred didn't exist.
When all 737's were accounted for, the individual airports and the FAA lifted flight restrictions and left it to the airlines to straighten out the scheduling mess.
According to Harold Greenwood, an aeronautic elec- tronics specialist with Air Systems Design in Alpharetta, Geor- gia, "there is a real and definite possibility that there has been a specific attack on the airline computers.
Either that or the most devastating computer program- ming error in history." Government officials discounted Greenwood's theories and said there is no place for wild speculation that could create panic in the minds of the public.
None the less, flight cancellations busied the phones at most airlines and travel agencies, while the gargantuan task of rescheduling thousands of flights with 30% less planes began.
They always blame the computers.
Who's really at fault?" "They're just as bad as the oil companies.
This is Scott Mason, riding the train. * * * * * "Doug," pleaded 39 year old veteran reporter Scott Mason.
Not another computer virus story . . .
Scott childishly shrugged his shoulders in mock defeat. "Stop your whining," Doug ordered in fun.
You are the special- ist," he chided. When the story first came across the wire, Scott was the logical choice.
In only seven years as a reporter Scott Mason had de- veloped quite a reputation for himself, and for the New York City Times.
Doug had had to eat his words from years earlier more times than he cared to remember, but Scott's head had not swelled to the size of his fan club, which was the bane of so many suc- cessful writers.
The man who puts Cold Fusion on the front page of every paper in the country doesn't think a virus is sexy enough for the public.
Good night!" "That's not what I'm saying.
Scott had to defend this one.
Viruses are a dime a dozen and worse, there's no one behind it, there's nobody there.
There's no story . . ." "Then find one.
That's what we pay you for.
Doug loudly mut- tered a few choice words that his paper wouldn't be caught dead printing.
Besides, you're the only one left.
As he left he patted Scott on the back saying, "thanks.
Really." "God, I hate this job." Scott Mason loved his job, after all it was his invention seven years ago when he first pitched it to Doug.
Scott's original idea had worked.
It was a childhood fantasy. Doug remembered the day clearly.
That's a new one on me," Doug had said with amusement when the mildly arrogant but very likable Mason had gotten cornered him, somehow bypassing personnel. Points for aggressiveness, points for creativity and points for brass balls.
Doug had tried to be polite. "That's not what I mean," Scott explained.
Everybody and his dead brother can write about the machines and the computers and the software.
The antics of the Kay family earned Mason a respectable following in his articles and contributions as well as several libel and slander suits from the Kays.
He also discovered how the experiments had been staged well enough to fool most experts. Scott had located one expert who wasn't fooled and could prove it.
Scott Mason rode the crest of the Cold Fusion story for months before it became old news and the Hubble Telescope fiasco took its place. The fiasco of the Hubble Telescope was nothing new to Scott Mason's readers.
He had published months before its launch that the mirrors were defective, but the government didn't heed the whistle blower's advice.
The optical measurement computers which grind the mirrors of the telescope had a software program that was never tested before being used on the Hubble.
He traced the Libyan chemical weapons plant back to West Germany which triggered the subsequent destruction of the plant. Scott's outlook was simple.
It's a matter of recognizing the possibilities and then the probabilities.
Therefore, if some- thing is possible, someone, somewhere will do it.
Guaranteed. Since someone's doing it, then it's only a matter of catching him in the act." "Besides," he would tell anyone who would listen, "computers and technology and electronics represent trillions of dollars annu- ally.
To believe that there isn't interesting, human interest and profound news to be found, is pure blindness.
Scott often became the technical back- bone of articles that did not carry his name.
But that was good. The journalists' barter system.
Scott Mason was not considered a competitor to the other reporters because of his areas of inter- est and the skills he brought with him to the paper.
And, he didn't flaunt his knowledge.
His efforts were deeply appreciated. **************************************************************** Chapter 2 Friday, September 4 San Francisco, California Mr. Henson?" "Yes, Maggie?
Henson responded over the hands free phone on his highly polished black marble desk.
He never looked up from the papers he was perusing. "There's a John Fullmaster for you." "Who?" he asked absent mindedly. "Ah, John Fullmaster." "I don't know a Fullman do I?
Who is he?" "That's Fullmaster, sir, and he says its personal." Robert Henson, chairman and CEO of Perris, Miller and Stevenson leaned back in the plush leather chair.
A brief perplexed look covered his face and then a sigh of resignation.
It was the only seeming diversion Robert Henson had from the daily grueling regimen of earning fat fees in the most somber of Wall Street activities.
He needed a break anyway. "Robert Henson.
He said into the phone.
It was as much a command as a question.
From the 46th. floor SW corner office, Henson stared out over Lower New York Bay where the Statue of Liberty reigned. "Thank you for taking my call Mr. Henson.
The caller's proper Central London accent was engaging and conveyed assurance and propriety.
I am calling in reference to the proposed merger you are arranging between Second Boston Financial and Winston Ellis Services.
I asked, sir, don't you agree?" "Listen," Henson shouted into the phone.
I don't know who the hell you are, nor what you want, but all filings made with the SEC are public and available to anyone.
Or, more precisely, what I have to show them." "What the hell are you talking about?
Henson screamed. "Specifically, you inflated the earnings of Winston Ellis over 40% by burying certain write downs and deferred losses.
I be- lieve you are familiar with the numbers.
Didn't you have them altered yourself?" Henson paled as the caller spoke to him matter of factly.
His eyes darted around his spacious and opulent office as though someone might be listening.
He shifted uneasily in his chair, leaned into the phone and spoke quietly. "I don't know what you're taking about." "I think you do, Mr. Henson." "What do you want?
Henson asked cautiously. "Merely your acknowledgment, to me, right now, that the figures were falsified, at your suggestion, and . . ." "I admit nothing.
Henson hung up the phone. Shaken, he dialed the phone, twice.
In his haste he misdialed the first time.
This is Henson." "Brocker," the other end of the phone responded nonchalantly. "Bill, Bob here.
We got troubles." * * * * * "Senator Rickfield?
I think you better take this call.
Ken Boyers was earnest in his suggestion.
The aged Senator looked up and recognized a certain urgency.
The youthful 50 year old Ken Boyers had been with Senator Merrill Rickfield since the mid 1960's as an aide de campe, a permanent fixture in Rickfield's national success.
Ken preferred the number two spot, to be the man in the background rather the one in the public light.
He felt he could more effectively wield power without the constant surveillance of the press.
Only when events and deals were completely orchestrated were they made public, and then Merrill could take the credit.
The arrangement suited them both. Rickfield indicated that his secretary and the two junior aids should leave the room.
What is it Ken?" "Just take the call, listen carefully, and then we'll talk." "Who is it, Ken.
I don't talk to every. . ." "Merrill . . .pick up the phone.
They had worked together long enough to afford Ken the luxury of ordering a U.S.
Senator around. "This is Senator Rickfield, may I help you?
The solicitous campaign voice, smiling and inviting, disguised the puzzled look he gave his senior aide.
Within a few seconds the puzzlement gave way to open mouthed silent shock and then, only moments later to overt fear.
He stared with disbelief at Ken Boyers. Aghast, he gently put the phone back in its cradle. "Ken," Rickfield haltingly spoke.
Who the hell was that and how in blazes did he know about the deal with Credite Suisse?
Only you, me and General Young knew.
He rose slowly rose and looked accusingly at Ken. "C'mon Merrill, I have as much to lose as you." "The hell you do.
I'm a respected United States Senator.
They can string me up from the highest yardarm just like they did Nixon and I'm not playing to lose.
Besides, I'm the one the public knows while you're invisible.
It's my ass and you know it.
Now, and I mean now, tell me what the hell is going on?
There were only three of us . . ." "And the bank," Ken quickly interjected to deflect the verbal onslaught. "Screw the bank.
But this son of a bitch knew the numbers.
Damn it, he knew the numbers Ken!" "Merrill, calm down." "Calm down?
You have some nerve to tell me to calm down.
Do you know what would happen if anyone, and I mean anyone finds out about . . .
Rickfield looked around and thought better of finishing the sentence. "Yes I know.
As well as you do.
Jesus Christ, I helped set the whole thing up.
He approached Merrill Rickfield and touched the Senator's shoulder.
Just some lucky guess by some scum bag who . . ." "Bullshit.
I want a tee off time as soon as possible.
And make damn sure that bastard Young is there.
It's a threesome." * * * * * John Faulkner was lazing at his estate in the eminently exclu- sive, obscenely expensive Bell Canyon, twenty miles north of Los Angeles.
Even though it was Monday, he just wasn't up to going into the office.
As Executive Vice President of California National Bank, with over twenty billion in assets, he could pick and choose his hours.
This Tuesday he chose to read by the pool and enjoy the warm and clear September California morning.
The view of the San Gabriel mountains was so distracting that his normal thirty minute scan of the Wall Street Journal took nearly two hours. His estate was the one place where Faulkner was guaranteed priva- cy and anonymity.
High profile Los Angeles banking required a social presence and his face, along with his wife's, graced the social pages every time an event of any gossip-magnitude oc- curred.
He craved his private time. Faulkner's standing instruction with his secretary was never to call him at home unless "the bank is nuked, or I die" which when translated meant, "Don't call me, I'll call you.
His wife was the only other person with the private phone number he changed every month to insure his solitude. The phone rang.
At least not in recent memory. He used it to dial out; but it was never used to receive calls. The warble surprised him so, that he let it ring three times before suspiciously picking it up.
I just got a new number last week.
I'll have to have it changed again. "Hello?" he asked suspiciously. "Good morning Mr. Faulkner.
I just called to let you know that your secret is safe with me.
Faulkner itched to identify the voice behind the well educated British accent, but that fleeting thought dissipated at the import of the words being spoken. "Who is this?
What secret?" "Oh, dear me.
I am sorry, where are my manners.
I am referring to the millions you have embezzled from your own bank to cover your gambling losses last year.
I won't tell a soul.
The line went dead. Sir George dialed the next number on his list after scanning the profile.
The phone was answered by a timid sounding gentleman. Sir George began his fourth pitch of the day.
Mr. Hugh Sidneys? I would like to talk to you about a small banking problem I think you have . . ." Sir George Sterling made another thirty four calls that day. Each one alarmingly similar to the first three.
Not that they alarmed him.
They merely alarmed, often severely, the recipients of his calls.
In most cases he had never heard of the persons he was calling, and the contents of his messages were often cryptic to him.
But it didn't take him long to realize that every call was some form of veiled, or not so veiled threat.
But his in- structions had been clear.
Just pass on the contents of the messages on his list to their designees.
If he hadn't been stuck in Athens last year, wondering where his next score would come from.
How strange the world works, he thought.
It was one of the few ways out of the dismal existence that generations before him had tolerated with a stiff upper lip.
As a petty thief he had done 'awright', but one score had left him with more money than he had ever seen.
That is when he became a Sir, albeit one purchased. He spent several months impressing mostly himself as he traveled Europe.
With the help of Eliza Doolittle, Sir George perfected his adapted upper crust London accent.
His natural speech was that of a Liverpuddlian with a bag of marbles in his mouth - totally unintelligible when drunk.
But his royal speech was now that of a Gentleman from the House of Lords.
Slow and precise when appropriate or a practiced articulateness when speaking rapidly.
It initially took some effort, but he could now correct his slips instantly.
Second nature it became for George Sterling, n<130> Toft. Athens was the end of his tour and where he had spent the last of his money.
George, Sir George, sat sipping Metaxa in Sintigma Square next to the Royal Gardens and the imposing Hotel Grande Britagne styled in nineteenth century rococo elegance.
As he enjoyed the balmy spring Athens evening pondering his next move, as either George Toft of Sir George Sterling, a well dressed gentleman sat down at his tiny wrought iron table. "Sir George?
The visitor offered his hand. George extended his hand, not yet aware that his guest had no reason whatsoever to know who he was. "Sir George?
Do I have the Sir George Sterling of Briarshire, Essex?
The accent was trans European.
It didn't matter, Sir George had been recognized. George rose slightly.
Excuse me, I was lost in thought, you know.
Of course. Please do be seated." The stranger said, "Sir George, would you be offended if I of- fered you another drink, and perhaps took a few minutes of your valuable time?
The man smiled genuinely and sat himself across from George before any reply.
He knew what the answer would be. "Please be seated.
Metaxa would it be for you, sir?
George waved two fingers at one of the white-jacketed waiters who worked in the outdoor cafe.
Greek waiters are not known for their graciousness, so a brief grunt and nod was an acceptable response.
George returned his attention to his nocturnal visitor.
I don't believe I've had the pleasure . . ." he said in his most formal voice. "Sir George, please just call me Alex.
Last names, are so, well, so unnecessary among men like us.
Don't you agree?" George nodded assent.
How may I assist you?" "Oh no, Sir George, it is I who may be able to assist you.
I understand that you would like to continue your, shall we say, extended sabbatical.
Would that be a fair appraisal?
The Metaxas arrived and Alex excused the waiter with two 1000 Drachma notes.
The overtipping guaranteed privacy. George looked closely at Alex.
This stranger had either keen insight into George's current plight or had heard of his escapades across the Southern Mediterranean.
Royalty on Sabbatical was an unaccostable lie that regularly passed critical scrutiny. "Fair.
What exactly can you do for me, or can we do for each other?" "An even more accurate portrayal my friend, yes, do for each other.
Alex paused for effect and to sip his Metaxa.
Simply put Sir George, I have the need for a well spoken gentleman to represent me for a period of perhaps, three months, perhaps more if all goes well.
Not that I am ordinarily for hire, you understand, it's just that . . .".
Alex detected a slight stutter as Sir George spoke. Alex held up both hands in a gesture of understanding.
No need to continue my dear Sir George.
The only reason he didn't feel the discom- fort that one should in such a situation is that he was in desperate need of money.
And, this stranger did seem to know who he was, and did need his particular type of expertise, whatever that was. "What exactly do you require of me, Alex.
That is, what form of representation have you in mind?
He might as well find out what he was supposed to do before naming a price. Alex laughed.
Merely to be my voice.
It is so simple, really. In exchange for that, and some travel, first class and all ex- penses to which you are accustomed, you will be handsomely paid." Alex looked for Sir George's reaction to the proposed fees.
He was pleased with what he saw in George's face. Crikey, this is too good to be true.
What's the catch<D>. As George ruminated his good fortune and the Metaxa, Alex contin- ued. "The job is quite simple, really, but requires a particular delicacy with which you are well acquainted.
Each day you will receive a list of names.
There will be instructions with each name.
Call them at the numbers provided.
Say only what is writ- ten.
Keep notes of each call you make and I will provide you with the means to transmit them to me in the strictest of confi- dence.
You and I will have no further personal contact, either if you accept or do not accept my proposition.
If we are able to reach mutually agreeable terms, monies will be wired to a bank account in your name.
Alex opened his jacket and handed George an envelop.
This is an advance if you accept.
There is a phone number to call when you arrive in San Francisco.
If you do not, there will be no lists for you, no additional monies and I will want this money back.
Alex was smiling warmly but as serious as a heart attack. Alex scanned the contents of the envelope.
He had always wanted to see the States. "Yes, Alex, I do have one question.
George peered at Alex for a clue. "Do you really care?" "No." "Off you go then.
And good luck." * * * * * Sir George Sterling arrived in San Francisco airport the follow- ing evening.
He flew first class and impressed returning Ameri- can tourists with his invented pedigree and his construed impor- tance.
After the virtually nonexistent customs check, he called the number inside the envelop.
It rang three times before answering.
Damn, it was a machine, he thought. "Welcome to the United States, Sir George.
I hope you had a good flight.
The voice was American, female, and flight attendant friendly.
Please check into the San Francisco Airport Hilton. You will receive a call at 11 AM tomorrow.
A dial tone replaced the lovely voice.
He dialed the number again. A mechanical voice responded instead.
The number you have called in no longer in service.
Please check the number or call the operator for assistance.
The number you have called is no longer in service..." George dialed the number twice more before he gave up in frustra- tion.
He had over $20,000 in cash, knew no one in America and for the first time in years, he felt abandoned.
What kind of joke was this?
Fly half way around the world and be greeted with an out of service number.
But the first voice had known his name. The Hilton.
Why not? At precisely 11AM, the phone in Sir George Sterling's suite rang. He was still somewhat jet lagged from his 18 hours of flying and the span of 10 time zones.
The Eggs Benedict was exquisite, but Americans could learn something about tea.
The phone rang again. He casually picked it up. "Good morning, Sir George.
Please get a pencil and paper.
You have fifteen seconds and then I will continue.
It was the same alluring voice from yesterday.
The paper and pen were right there at the phone so he waited through 14 seconds of silence.
Please check out of the hotel and pay cash.
Proceed to the San Francisco airport and from a pay phone, call 5-5-5-3-4-5-6 at 1 P.M. Have a note book and two pens with you.
Good Bye. " The annoying dial tone returned.
What a bloody waste of time. At 1P.M. he called the number as he was instructed.
In ten seconds, your instructions will begin.
Again, that same voice, but it almost appeared condescending to him now.
Isn't that the way when you can't respond.
Catch the next flight to New York City.
Stay at the Grand Hyatt Hotel at Grand Central Sta- tion on 42nd.
Not a suite this time, Sir George, just a regular room.
Sir George was startled at Alex's attention to detail. "You will stay there for fourteen days.
On 56th. street and Madison avenue is a school called CTI, Computer Training Insti- tute.
You are to go to CTI and enroll in the following classes: DOS, that's D-O-S for beginners, Intermediate DOS and Advanced DOS.
You will also take WordPerfect I and II.
Lastly, and most importantly you will take all three classes on Tele-Communica- tions.
They call it TC-I, TC-II and TC-III.
These eight class- es will take you ten days to complete.
Do not forget to pay in cash.
I will now pause for ten seconds.
Alex was writing furi- ously.
He was scared silly of them.
Not that he had ever had the opportunity or the need or the desire to use them, just from lack of exposure and the corresponding ignorance.
But if this meant he could keep the $25,000 he would do it.
What the hell. "After you enroll, go to 45 West 47th street to a store called Discount Computer Shoppe.
Buy the following equipment with cash. One Pro-Start 486-80 computer with 8 Meg RAM.
That's 8 M-E-G R- A-M and ask for a high resolution color monitor.
Also purchase, and have them install a high speed modem, M-O-D-E-M.
Do not, I repeat, do not purchase a printer of any type.
You are never to use a printer.
Lastly, you will purchase a copy of Word Perfect and Crosstalk.
If you wish any games for your amusement, that is up to you.
When you have completed your studies you will call 212-555-6091.
Do not call that number before you have completed your studies.
This is imperative." Sir George was just writing, not comprehending a thing.
It was all gibberish to him.
The female voice got serious, very serious for the first time in their relationship.
You are to speak to no one, I repeat, no one, of the nature of your business, the manner in which you receive instructions, or why computers have a sudden interest for you.
Otherwise our deal is off and your advance will be expected to be returned.
Am I clear?" George responded quickly, "Yes!" before seeing the lunacy of answering a machine. "Good," the voice was friendly again.
Learn your lessons well for you will need the knowledge to perform your tasks.
Until we speak again, I thank you, Sir George Sterling.
The line went dead. George Toft took his computer classes very seriously.
He had in fact bought a few games to amuse himself and he found himself really enjoying the work.
It was new, and exciting.
His only social distractions were the sex shops on Times Square.
Red Light Amsterdam or the Hamburg they weren't, so midnight antics with the Mario Brothers prevailed most evenings.
Besides, there was a massive amount of homework.
Bloody hell, back to school. He excelled in his studies which pleased George a great deal.
In fact most of the students in Sir George's computer classes ex- celled.
The teachers were very pleased to have a group of stu- dents that actually progressed more rapidly than the curriculum called for.
Pleasant change from the E Train Bimbos from Queens. The computer teachers didn't know that a vast majority of the class members had good reason to study hard.
Most of them had received their own $25,000 scholarships. * * * * * Sunday, September 6 SDSU Campus, San Diego, California. WTFO the computer screen displayed.
That was hackerese, borrowed from the military for What The Fuck?
It was a friendly greeting that offended no one. Back on.
Everyone still there? BOOM'S STILL AT UCLA, I JUST TALKED TO CRACKER, MAD MAX, ALPHA, SCROLLER, MR. MAGIC . . .WE MISSED YOU.
LOOKING FORWARD TO A GOOD VACATE? Yeah, 4 days before next term starts . . .Has anyone got the key to the NPPS NASA node? THEY CLOSED IT AGAIN.
Anyone? BEST I'VE EVER HEARD.
THEN SOME RUMORS ABOUT COLUMBUS DAY, BUT NOTHING HARD. When you get the code send me a copy, OK? SURE.
WE'RE ABOUT READY TO LET HIM IN. HE BROUGHT A LOT TO THE PARTY. Careful!
Remember 401 YEAH, I KNOW.
HE BROUGHT US THE NEWEST IRS X.25 SIGN-ONS, 2 MILNET SUPERUSER PASSWORDS AND, DIG THIS, VETERAN'S BENEFIT AND ADMINISTRATION, OFFICE OF POLICY AT THE VA. What you gonna do, boy?
In them thar computers? I FIGURE I'D GIVE A FEW EXTRA BENEFITS TO SOME NEEDY GI'S WHO'VE BEEN ON THE SHORT END. Excellent!
Hey, Lori's on the line. gotta go. TA <<<<<< CONNECTION TERMINATED >>>>>> The screen of his communications program returned to a list of names and phone numbers.
Lori said she'd be over in an hour and Steven Billings was tempted to dial another couple of numbers before his date with Lori.
The ritual labors were over and he looked forward to some relax time.
Serious relax time. The one recreation he craved, but downplayed to Lori, was spend- ing time with his computer.
She was jealous in some respects, in that it received as much attention from Steve as she did.
Yet, she also understood that computers were his first love, and they were part of his life long before she was.
So, they came with the territory.
Steve attended, upon occasion, classes at SDSU, La Jolla.
Rather than flaunt his skills to his teachers and risk extra assignments, he was more technically qualified than they were, he kept his mouth shut, sailed through classes, rarely studied and became a full time computer hacker.
He translated his every wish into a com- mand that the computer obeyed. Steve Billings did not fill the picture of a computer nerd.
He was almost dashing with a firm golden tanned 175 pound body, and dark blond hair that caused the girls to turn their heads.
He loved the outdoors, the hot warmth of the summer to the cooler warmth of the winter, surfing at the Cardiff Reef and betting on fixed jai-alai games in Tijuana.
He played soccer and OTL, a San Diego specific version of gloveless and topless co-ed beach softball.
In short, he was a guy.
A regular guy. The spotlessly groomed image of Steve Billings in white tennis shorts and a "Save the Whales" tank-top eclectically co-existed with the sterile surroundings of the mammoth super computer center.
Now there was a feel- ing.
Hacking through somebody else's computer without their knowledge.
The ultimate challenge, an infinity of possibilities, an infinity of answers. The San Diego Union was an awful paper, Steve thought, and the evening paper was even worse.
So he got copies of the New York City Times when possible, either at a newsstand, borrowed from yesterday's Times reader or from the library.
Nice to get a real perspective on the world.
This Sunday he spent the $4.00 to get his own new, uncrumpled and unread copy of his revered paper, all thirty four pounds of it.
Peace. Reading by the condo pool an article caught his eye.
A virus attaches itself to other computer programs secretively.
At some time after the parasite virus program is 'glued' into the comput- er, it is reawakened on a specific date or by a particular se- quence of events. Chase, though, actually infected INTERNET with a Worm.
A Worm is a program that copies itself, over and over and over, either filling the computer's memory to capacity or slowing down its operation to a snail's pace.
It has been estimated that almost $100 Million in damage was caused by Mr. Chase's Worm.
Mr. Chase said the Worm was experimental, and was accidentally released into INTERNET when a piece of software he had written malfunc- tioned.
He apologized for any inconvenience he caused. The Attorney General of the State of Michigan is examining the legal aspects of the case and it is expected that Mr. Chase will be tried within in a year.
It was a local university Bulletin Board Service or BBS.
A BBS is like a library.
There are li- braries of software which are free, and as a user you are recip- rocally expected to donate software into the Public Domain.
Con- ference Halls or Conversation Pits on the BBS are free-for-all discussions where people at their keyboards can all have a 'live' conversation.
Anyone, using any computer, anywhere in the world can call up any BBS using regular phone lines.
STEVE BILLINGS, YOU ARE USER #109 Steve Chose (12) for SERVICES: The menu changed to a list of further options.
Each option would permit the user to gain access to other networks around the country.
Now, from his room, he was talking to a computer in Los Angeles.
There was another menu of options, and a list of other widely dispersed computer networks.
He requested the SUNYNET computer, the State University of New York Network.
NEMO was born into this world by Steve and a few of his friends while they were in high school in Darien.
NEMO was a private club, for a few close friends who enjoyed their new hobby, computers. NEMO's Menu was designed for the professional hacker. 1.
FORTUNE 500 DOORKEYS He selected (8), WHO ELSE?
Steve wanted to see who else was 'on- line' now.
He wanted to talk about this Chase guy who was giving hackers a bad name.
The computer responded: CONVERSATION PIT: LA CREME, RAMBO.
DO YOU WANT TO JOIN IN? That was great!
Two of the half dozen of NEMO's founders were there.
La Creme de la Creme was KIRK's college roommate, but he had not yet returned to San Diego for the fall term.
RAMBO, 'I'll get through any door' was the same age as Kirk and Creme, but chose to study at Columbia in New York's Harlem.
Hackers picked alter- ego monikers as CB'ers on the highways did; to project the desired image.
Steve and his cohorts picked their aliases when they were only fifteen, and kept them ever since. Steve typed in a 'Y' and the ENTER key. WHO ARE YOU? NEMO was asking for an additional password. Kirk Steve typed.
A brief pause, and the computer screen came to life. WELCOME TO THE CONVERSATION PIT, KIRK.
HOW HAVE YOU BEEN? That was his invitation to interrupt any conversation in progress.
Steve typed in, Dudes! HOW'D EXAMS GO? <<LA CREME>> Greased'em.
Ready to come back? FAST AS THE PLANE WILL GO.
7:20 ON AMERICAN?<LA CREME> Sure.
Hey, what's with the Morris copy cat?
Some phreak blowing it for the rest of us. SO YOU HEARD.
CHASE IS REALLY GONNA SCREW THINGS UP. <<RAMBO>> What the hell really happened?
Said that he claimed it was accident. ACCIDENTAL ON PURPOSE MAYBE <<LA CREME>> HOW MANY WAYS ARE THERE INFECT A NATIONAL DEFENSE NETWORK?
THAT'S NO ACCIDENT. <<RAMBO>> Ten-Four.
Seems like he don't wanna live by the code.
Must be some spoiled little brat getting too big for his britches . . . BEST GUESS IS THAT HE DID IT TO IMPRESS HIS OLD MAN.
SO INTERNET HAD GAS SO BAD, COMPUTING CAME TO A HALT FOR A COUPLE OF DAYS TILL THEY CLEANED OUT THE PROVERBIAL SEWERS. <<LA CREME>> SURE SOUNDS LIKE A PUBLICITY GAG TO ME <<RAMBO>> Jeez.
Anyone else been hit yet? NO, BUT WE'VE BEEN EXTRA CAREFUL SINCE.
THE DOORKEY DOWNLOAD WILL UPDATE YOU. <<RAMBO>> OK, I'll be supersleuth.
Legion of Doom, The Crusaders? IT'S ONE BIG DEAL IN THE E-MAIL: NEW CHAOS VIRUSES, EVERY DICK AND JANE IS WRITING THEIR OWN VIRUSES.
Why don't you put a rubber on your big 640K RAM?
Or your mouse? GOT SOMETHING AGAINST SAFE COMPUTING?
TAKE A LOOK AT THE PUBLIC BBS'S. QUITE A CHAT. <<LA CREME>> Will do.
Any word on the new Central Census Data Base?
Every- thing about every American stored in one computer.
All of their personal data, ripe for the picking.
Sounds like the kind of library that would do the bad guys a lot of good. CAN'T FIND A DOOR FROM THE INTERNET GATE.
Keep me in mind. * * * * * Steve copied several pages of names, phone numbers and passwords from NEMO's data base into his computer 3000 miles across the country.
These were the most valuable and revered types of files in the underground world of hackerdom.
Another reason NEMO was so secret.
Didn't want just anybody climbing the walls of their private playground.
Can't trust everyone to live by the Code. Steve finished downloading the files from NEMO's distant data base and proceeded to print them out for a hardcopy reference.
Big business and government never wizened up.
Predictable passwords, like 'secret' were about as kinder- garten as you could get.
And everyone wonders why folks like us parade around their computers.
He had in his hand a list of over 250 updated and verified private, government and educational institutions who had left the keys to the front doors of their computers wide open.
And those were just the ones that NEMO knew about today. There is no accurate way to determine how many groups of hackers like NEMO existed.
But, even if only 1/100 of 1% of computer users classified themselves as hackers, that's well over 100,000 people breaking into computers.
Enough reason to give Big Busi- ness cause for concern.
Yet, no one did anything serious to lock the doors. Steve spent the next several hours walking right into computer systems all over the country.
Through the Bank of California in San Francisco, (Steve's first long distance call) he could reach the computers of several corresponding banks.
He read through the new loan files, saw that various developers had defaulted on their loans and were in serious trouble.
Rates were going to start rising.
Good enough for a warm up. Steve still wanted back into the NASA launch computers.
On line launch information, results of analysis going back twenty years, and he had had a taste of it, once.
Then, one day, someone inside of NASA got smart and properly locked the front door.
From San Diego, to LA, to San Francisco for a mere 25 cents. Livermore researchers kept the front doors of their computers almost completely open.
The leading thinkers from the most technical- ly demanding areas in science today put down their thoughts for the everyone to read.
He discovered that the last 3 underground nuclear test explosions outside of Las Vegas were underyield, and no one knew why.
Then he found some super-technical proposals that sounded like pure science fiction: Moving small asteroids from between Mars and Jupiter into orbit around the Earth would make lovely weapons to drop on your ene- mies.
To supplement his income, he occasionally performed extracurricular activities for special interest groups throughout Europe.
A little information to the IRA in Northern Ireland, a warning to the Red Brigade about an impending raid. Even the Hizballah, the Party of God for Lebanese terrorists had occasion to use Alex's Services.
He hadn't, and with predictable German Govern- ment efficiency, upon his departure from the RDD, his file was promptly retired and his subsequent activities ignored. Alex began his full time free-lance career as a 'Provider of Information'.
With fees of no less than 250,000 DM, Alex didn't need to work much.
No guns, no danger, just information. His latest client guaranteed Alex three years of work for a flat fee in the millions of Deutch Marks.
It was the intelligence assignment of a lifetime, one that insured a peaceful and pros- perous retirement for Alex.
He wasn't the perennial spy, politi- cally or dogmatically motivated.
Alex wanted the money. After he had completed his computer classes and purchased the equipment from the list, Sir George dialed the number he had been given.
He half expected a live person to congratulate him, but also realized that that was a foolish wish.
There was no reason to expect anything other than the same sexy voice dictating orders to him. "Ah, Sir George.
How good of you to call.
How were your class- es?
George nearly answered the alluring telephone personality again, but he caught himself. "Very good," the voice came back in anticipated response.
I have a message for you in 15 seconds." That damned infernal patronization.
Of course I have a bleeding pen.
Idiot. "Are you ready?" she asked.
George made an obscene gesture at the phone. "Catch a flight to San Francisco tonight.
Bring all of the com- puter equipment you have purchased.
Take a taxi to 14 Sutherland Place on Knob Hill.
Under the mat to Apartment 12G you will find two keys.
They will let you into your new living quarters.
It is yours, and the rent is taken care of as is the phone bill.
Your new phone number is 4-1-5-5-5-5-6-3-6-1. When you get settled, dial the following number from your comput- er.
You should be well acquainted with how to do that by now. The number is 4-1-5-5-5-5-0-0-1-5.
Your password is A-G-O-R-A. Under the mattress in the bedroom is a PRG, Password Response Generator.
It looks like a credit card, but has an eight digit display.
Whenever you call Alex, he will ask you for a response to your password.
Quickly enter whatever the PRG says.
If you lose the PRG, you will be terminated.
The voice paused for a few seconds to George's relief. "You will receive full instructions at that point.
A dial tone replaced the voice he had come to both love and hate. Bloody hell, he thought.
I'm down to less than $5000 and now I'm going back to San Francisco?
But, he kept wondering to himself, when does the free ride end?
Maybe he's been strung along so far that he can't let go.
One more call, just to see how the next chapter begins. George installed his computer in the second bedroom on a table that fit his equipment like a glove. C:\cd XTALK C:\XTALK\xtalk His hard disk whirred for a few seconds.
He chose the Dial option and entered the phone number from the keyboard and then asked the computer to remember it for future use.
He omitted the area code.
Why had he been given an area code if he was dialing from the same one?
George didn't pursue the question; if he had he would have realized he wasn't alone. The modem dialed the number for him.
His screen went momentarily blank and then suddenly came to life again. <<<<<<CONNECT 2400 BAUD>>>>>> DO YOU WANT TO SPEAK TO ALEX? (Y/N?) George entered a "Y" PASSWORD: George entered AGORA.
The letters did not echo to the screen. He hoped he had typed then correctly.
Apparently he did, for the screen then prompted him for his RESPONSE. He copied the 8 characters from the PRG into the computer.
There was a pause and then the screen filled. SIR GEORGE, WELCOME TO ALEX.
KEEP AN EXACT LOG OF THE EVENTS AS THEY TRANSPIRE ON EACH CALL. <<PUSH SPACE BAR FOR MORE>> George pushed the space bar.
The screen was again filled. ALEX REQUIRES PRECISE INFORMATION.
IS THAT CLEAR? The screen was awaiting a response.
George typed in "Y". GOOD.
THIS IS QUITE SIMPLE, IS IT NOT? Y DO YOU THINK YOU CAN HANDLE THE JOB? Y WHAT KIND OF PRINTER DO YOU HAVE? None ARE YOU SURE? Y WILL YOU BUY ONE? N GOOD.
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN MONEY? Finally, thought Sir George, the reason for my existence. Y AN ACCOUNT HAS BEEN OPENED IN YOUR NAME AT THE BANK OF AMERICA, REDMOND BRANCH 3 BLOCKS FROM YOU.
ANYONE AT ALL? N EVEN UNDER FORCE? Force, what the hell does that mean?
I guess the answer is No, thought George. N I HOPE SO, FOR YOUR SAKE.
YOU START MONDAY. <<<<<<CONNECTION TERMINATED>>>>>> Sir George was a little confused, maybe a lot confused.
He was the proud owner of a remote control job, a cushy one as far as he could tell, but the tone of the conversation he just had with the computer was worrisome.
What was the difference between 'Services Terminated' and 'Terminated' anyway. Maybe he shouldn't ask.
Keep his mouth shut and do a good job. Hey, he thought, dismissing the possible unpleasant consequences of failure.
This is San Francisco, and I have a three days off in a new city.
Might as well find my way around the town to- night.
According to the guide books I should start at Pier 39. **************************************************************** Chapter 3 Tuesday, September 8, New York City But they told me they wouldn't tell!
Hugh Sidneys pleaded into his side of the phone.
How did you find out?
At first, Scott thought the cartoon voice was a joke perpetrated by one of his friends, or more probably, his ex-wife.
Even she, though, coudn't possibly think crank a phone call was a twisted form of art. No, it had to be real. "I'm sorry Mr. Sidneys.
We can't give out our sources.
But are you saying that you confirm the story? That it is true?" "Yes, no. Well ," the pleading slid into near sobbing.
If this gets out, I'm ruined.
Everything, my family . . .how could you have found out?
The noise from the busy metro room at the New York City Times made it difficult to hear Sidneys. "Can I quote you, sir?
Are you confirming the story?
Scott pressed on for that last requisite piece of every journalistic puzzle confirmation of a story that stood to wreck havoc in portions of the financial community.
The call from Scott Mason to First State Savings and Loan on Madison Avenue had been devastating.
Hugh Sidneys was just doing what he was told to do.
Scott softened toward Sidneys, thinking the first name approach might work.
But, is it true, Hugh?
Is the story true?" "It doesn't matter anymore.
Hugh Sidneys hung up on Mason.
If it's good enough for me, it's good enough for my kids.
Scott was an only child, but his father had wanted more despite his mother's ina- bility to carry another baby to full term. Scott caught the resentment of his father and the doting protec- tion of his mother.
Marie Elizabeth Mason wanted her son to have more of a future than to merely live another generation in the lower middle class doldrums of Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn.
Not that Scott was aware of his predicament; he was a dreamer. Her son showed aptitude.
By the age of six Scott knew two words his father never learned - how and why.
His childhood curiosity led to more than a few mishaps and spankings by the hot tempered Louis Horace Mason.
Scott took apart everything in the house in an attempt to see what made it tick.
Sometimes, not often enough, Scott could reassemble what he broken down to its small- est components.
To Scott it wasn't an escape from Brooklyn, it was a chance to learn why and how machines worked. Horace gave Marie and Scott a three day silent treatment until his mother finally put an end to it.
Horace Stipton Mason," Evelyn Mason said with maternal command.
Our son has a gift, and you will not, I repeat, you will not interfere with his happiness." "Yes dear." "The boy is thirteen and he has plenty of time to decide what he's going to do with himself.
Is that clear?" "Yes dear." "Good.
She would say as she finished setting the table.
The War, demonstrating on the White House lawn, getting gassed at George Washington, writing for the New York Free Press, Scott was even arrested once or twice or three times for peaceful civil disobedience.
Scott Mason was seeing the world in a new way.
He would live at home.
He broke every damn thing I ever bought, radios, TV's, washers.
He can go to work like a man." With his mother's blessing and understanding, Scott moved out of the house and in with three roommates who also attended City College, where all New Yorkers can get a free education.
Scott played very hard, studied very little and let his left of center politics guide his social life.
His engineering professors remarked that he was underutilizing his God-given talents and that he spent more time protesting and objecting that paying attention.
It was an unpredictable piece of luck that Scott Mason would never have to make a living as an engineer.
He would be able to remain the itinerate tinkerer; designing and building the most inane creations that regularly had little purpose beyond satisfying technical creativity. "Can we go with it?
Scott asked City Editor Douglas McQuire and John Higgins, the City Times' staff attorney whose job it was to answer just such questions.
McQuire and Mason had been asked to join Higgins and publisher Anne Manchester to review the paper's position on running Mason's story.
Scott was being lawyered, the relatively impersonal cross examination by a so-called friendly in-house attorney.
It was the single biggest pain in the ass of Scott's job, and since he had a knack for finding sensitive sub- jects, he was lawyered fairly frequently.
Not that it made him feel any less like being called to the principal's office every time. Scott's boyish enthusiasm for his work, and his youthful appear- ance allowed some to underestimate his ability.
He looked much younger than his years, measuring a slender 6 foot tall and shy of 160 pounds.
His longish thin sandy hair and a timeless all about Beach Boy face made him a good catch on his better days- he was back in circulation at almost 40.
The round wire rimmed glasses he donned for an extreme case of myopia were a visible stylized reminder of his early rebel days, conveying a sophisti- cated air of radicalism.
Basically clean cut, he preferred shav- ing every two or three, or occasionally four days.
He blamed his poor shaving habits on his transparent and sensitive skin 'just like Dick Nixon's'. The four sat in Higgins' comfortable dark paneled office.
With 2 walls full of books and generous seating, the ample office resem- bled an elegant and subdued law library.
Higgins chaired the meeting from behind his leather trimmed desk.
Scott brought a tall stack of files and put them on the glass topped coffee table. "We need to go over every bit, from the beginning.
Higgins made it sound more like and order than responsible journalistic double checking.
Higgins didn't interfere in the news end of the business; he kept his opinions to himself.
But it was his respon- sibility to insure that the City Times' was kept out of the re- ceiving end of any litigation.
That meant that as long as a story was properly researched, sourced, and confirmed, the con- tents were immaterial to him.
That was the Publisher's choice, not his. Mason had come to trust Higgins in his role as aggravating media- tor between news and business.
Scott might not like what he had to say, but he respected his opinion and didn't argue too much. Higgins was never purposefully adversarial.
He merely wanted to know that both the writers and the newspaper had all their ducks in a row.
Libel suits can be such a pain, and expensive. "Why don't you tell me, again, about how you found out about the McMillan scams.
Higgins turned on a small micro-cassette re- corder.
I hope you don't mind," he said as he tested it.
Keeps better notes than I do," he offhandedly said.
Nobody objected. There would have been no point in objecting even if anyone cared. It was an unspoken truism that Higgins and other good attorneys taped many of their unofficial depositions to protect themselves in case anything went terribly wrong.
With a newspaper as your sole client, the First Amendment was always at stake. "OK," Scott began.
His reporter's notebook sat atop files full of computer printouts.
A few days ago, on September 4, that's a Friday, I got an anonymous call.
The guy said, 'You want some dirt on McMillan and First State S&L?
I said sure, what do you have and who is this?" "So then you knew who Francis McMillan was?
Higgins looked up surprised. "Of course," Mason said.
He's the squeaky clean bank President from White Plains.
Says he knows how to clean up the S&L mess, gets lots of air time.
Probably making a play for Washington. Big time political ambitions.
Pretty well connected at Treasury. I guess they listen to him." "In a nutshell.
And . . .then?" Mason sped through a couple of pages of scribbled notes from his pad.
Who I am don't matter but what I gotta say does.
Heavy Brooklyn accent, docks, Italian, who knows.
I said something like, 'I'm listening' and he says that McMillan is the dirtiest of them all.
He's been socking more money away than the rest and he's been doing it real smart.
So I go, 'so?' and he says he can prove it and I say 'how' and he says 'read your morning mail'.
Mason stopped abruptly. "That's it?
Higgins asked. "He hung up.
So I forgot about it till the next morning." "And that's when you got these?
Higgins said pointing at the stack of computer printouts in front of Mason.
How were they delivered?" "By messenger.
Just my name and the pa- per's.
Mason showed Higgins the envelop in which the files came. "Then you read them?" "Well not all of them, but enough.
Scott glanced at his editor. "That's when I let Doug know what I had." "And what did he say?
Higgins was keeping furious notes to back up the tape recording. "'Holy shit', as I remember.
Ice breakers, good for the soul, thought Mason.
People are too uptight. Higgins indicated that Scott should continue. "Then he said 'we gotta go slow on this one,' then he whistled and Holy Shat some more.
Once the giggles died down, Mason got serious.
I borrowed a bean counter from the basement, told him I'd put his name in the paper if anything came of it, and I picked his brain.
Ran through the numbers on the printouts, and ran through them again.
I really worked that poor guy, but that's the price of fame.
By the next morning we knew that there were two sets of books on First State.
Scott said with finality. Higgins interrupted here.
So what's wrong with that?" he chal- lenged. "They've effectively stolen a sandbagged and inflated reserve ac- count with over $750 Million it.
Almost 10% of stated assets. It appears from these papers," Scott waved his hand over them, "that the total of the reserve accounts will be taken, as a loss, in their next SEC reporting.
Cause he said, 'it's me remember?' and spoke like Archie Bunker.
Mason had the accent down to a tee.
Higgins gave in to another round of snickers. "He said, 'you like, eh?'" Mason spoke with an exaggerated New York accent and used the appropriate Italian hand gesture for 'eh!'.
I said, 'I like, but so what?
I still wasn't sure what he wanted.
He said, 'they never took a loss, yet.
They're gonna lose a bunch.
I said, 'how much' and he said, 'youse already know.'" Mason's imitation of a Brooklyn accent was good enough for a laugh. "He then said, 'enjoy the next installment', and that was the last time I spoke to him.
At any rate, the next package con- tained a history of financial transactions, primarily overseas; Luxembourg, Lietchenstein, Switzerland, Austria, Hong Kong, Sidney, Macao, Caymans and such.
And the results were incredible.
Mason held out a couple of charts and some graphs. "We compared both sets of books.
The bottom lines on both are the same.
First State has been doing very well.
McMillan has grown the company from $1 Billion to $12 Billion in 8 years. Quite a job, and the envy of hundreds of every other S&L knee deep in their own shit.
He thought Ms. Man- chester should be shielded from such language.
The problem is that, according to one set of books, First State is losing money on some investments merely by wishing them away.
They disappear altogether from one report to the next.
Not a lot of money, but a few million here and there." "What have you got then?
Higgins pressed. "Nobody notices cause the losses are all within the limits of the loss projections and reserve accounts.
Million dollar embezzlement scam with the SEC's approval." "How much follow up did you do?
Higgins asked as his pen fly across the legal pad. "Due to superior reporting ability," Scott puffed up his chest in jest, "I found that a good many account numbers listed in the package I received are non-existent.
The books with the overseas accounts are the ones with the real losses and where they occur.
The 'real' books don't." "The bottom line, please." "Someone has been embezzling from First State, and when they're through it'll be $3 Billion worth.
Scott was proud of himself. In only a few days he had penetrated a huge scam in the works. "You can't prove it!
So what does that prove?" "It proves that McMillan is a fraud, a rip-off," Scott retorted confidently. "It does not!" "But I have the papers to prove it," Scott shuffled through the folders. "Let me explain something, Scott.
Higgins put down his pen and adapted a friendlier tone.
There's a little legal issue called right to privacy.
Let me ask you this.
If I came to you and said that Doug here was a crook, what would you do?" "Ask you to prove it," Scott said. "Exactly.
It's the same here." "But I have the papers to prove it, it's in black and white." "No Scott, you don't.
What you have is some papers with accusa- tions.
They could have easily been phonied.
You know what computers can do better than I do.
Now here's the key point.
Everybody in this country is due privacy. You don't know where these came from, or how they were obtained, do you?" "No," Scott hesitantly admitted. "So, someone's privacy has been compromised, in this case McMil- lan's.
We even could be named as a co-conspirator in a criminal suit.
I can't let that happen.
It's our obligation to guarantee responsible journalism." "I see.
Scott didn't agree. "Scott, you're good, real good, but you have to see it from the paper's perspective.
Higgins' tone was now conciliatory.
This is hard stuff, and there's just not enough here, not to go with it yet.
Maybe in a few days when you can get a little more to tie it up.
I'm sorry." Case closed. Shit, shit shit, thought Scott.
Back to square one. Hugh Sidneys was nondescript, not quite a nebbish, but close.
His loyalty to First State was known throughout the financial departments; he was almost a fixture.
Yes, he was . . .he knew that.
That reporter . . .he sounded like he understood . . .maybe he could help . . .he was just asking questions . . .what was his name . . .? "Ah, Mr. Mason?
Scott heard the timid man's Road Runner voice spoke gently over the phone.
Scott had just returned to his desk from Higgins' office.
Hugh Sidneys, the Pee Wee Herman sounding beancounter from First State.
What did he want? "Yes, of course, Mr. Sidneys.
How can I help you?
He had just had his story nixed and he was ready to go home.
But Sidneys . . .maybe . . . "It's just that, well, I'm nervous about this . . ." "No need to apologize, Hugh.
Scott smiled into the phone to convey sincerity.
I understand, it happens all the time.
The pitch of Sidneys' voice rose as rambled on. "Wait!
Mr. Sidneys?" "Yes," the whisper came over the earpiece. "Is there something wrong . . .are you all right?
The fear, the sound of fear that every good reporter is attuned to came over loud and clear.
This man was terrified. "Yes, I'm OK, so far." "Good.
Now, tell me, what's wrong.
Sidneys was scared, but wanted to talk to someone.
Maybe this was the time for Scott to back off a little.
And it's not a law.
Scott was amused at the naivete that Hugh Sidneys showed.
It's a gentleman's agreement, a code of ethics in journalism.
You can be off the record, on the record, or for background, not for attribution, for confirmation, there's a whole bunch of 'em." Scott realized that Hugh knew nothing about the press so he explained the options slowly.
Which one would you like?
You have one for that?
Hugh was feeling easier on the phone with Scott. "Sure do.
We'll just call it off the record for now.
Everything you tell me, I promise not to use it without your permission. Will that do?
If you speak loudly with a big smile on your face, people on the other end of the phone think you're honest and that you mean what you say.
That's how game show hosts do it. "OK.
Scott heard Sidneys inhale deeply.
Those papers you say you have?
Scott patted them on his clut- tered desk. "Well, you can't have them.
Or you shouldn't have them.
Hugh was getting nervous again.
His voice nearly squeaked. "Hugh, I do have them, and you all but confirmed that for me yesterday.
A weak confirmation, but I think you know more than you let on . . ." "Mr. Mason . . ." "Please, call me Scott!" "OK . . .Scott.
What I'm trying to say is that what you say you have, you can't have cause it never existed." "What do you mean never existed?
Scott was confused, terribly confused all of sudden.
Listen, I have reams of paper here that say someone at First State is a big crook.
Then you say, 'sure it's real' and now you don't.
Playing good-cop bad-cop alone was diffi- cult, but a little pressure may bring this guy down to reality. "Obviously you have them, that's not the point.
Sidneys reacted submissively to Scott's ersatz domineering personality.
The only place that those figures ever existed was in my mind and in my computer.
I never made a printout.
They were never put on paper.
Hugh said resolutely. Scott's mind whirred.
Something is wrong with this picture.
He has papers that were never printed, or so says a guy whose sta- bility is currently in question.
The contents would have far reaching effects on the S&L issue.
A highly visible tip of the iceberg.
McMillan, involved in that kind of thing?
What was Sidneys getting at? "Mr. Sidneys . . .Hugh . . .do you have time to have a cup of coffee somewhere.
It might be easier if we sat face to face. Get to know each other." Rosie's Diner was one of the better Greasy Spoons near the Hudson River docks on Manhattan's West Side.
The silver interior and exterior was not a cliche when this diner was built.
Rosie, all 280 pounds of her, kept the UPS truckers coming back for over thirty years.
A lot of the staff at the paper ate here, too. For the best tasting cholesterol in New York, saturated fats, bacon and sausage grease flavored starches, Rosie's was the place.
Once a month at Rosie's would guarantee a reading of over 300. Scott recognized Hugh from a distance.
No one came in there dressed.
Had to be an accountant.
Hugh hugged his briefcase while nervously looking around the diner.
Scott tried to sound empathetic. "It's like I said, I don't know how you got them or they found out.
The voice was uncannily like Pebbles Flintstone in person. "Who found out?
Does someone else know . . .?" "OK," Hugh sighed.
I work for First State, right?
I work right with McMillan although nobody except a few people know it.
They think I do market analysis and research.
What I'm really doing is helping shelter money in offshore investment accounts.
There are some tax benefits, I'm not a tax accountant so I don't know the reasons, but I manage the offshore investments." "Did you think that was illegal?" "Only a little.
Until recently that is." "Sorry, continue.
Scott nibbled from the sandwich on his plate. "Well there was only one set of books to track the offshore investments.
They wanted them to be kept secret for various reasons.
McMillan and the others made the deals, not me.
I just moved the money for them.
Again Hugh was feeling paranoid. "Hugh, you moved some money around illegally, maybe.
So what? What's the big deal?
He said he has all the same figures and facts you said you have.
He starts reading enough to me and I know he's got what he says he got.
Then he says he wants me to cooperate or he'll go public with everything and blow it right out of the water.
Hugh was perspiring with tension.
His fists were clenched and knuckles white. "And then, I called you and you came unglued.
Scott was trying to emotionally console Hugh, at least enough to get some- thing more.
Do you think you were being blackmailed?
Did he, the English guy, demand anything?
Hugh obviously did not appreciate the attempt at levi- ty. "No, nothing.
He just said that I would hear from him shortly. That was it.
Then, nothing, until you called.
Then I figured I missed his call.
Hugh was working himself into another nervous frenzy. "Did he threaten you?" "No. Not directly.
Just said that it would be in my best inter- est to cooperate." "What did you say?" "What could I say?
I mumbled something about doing nothing wrong but he said that didn't matter and I would be blamed for every- thing and that he could prove it." "Could he prove it?
Hugh was scribbling furiously in his note- book. "If he had the files in my computer I guess I would look pretty guilty, but there's no way anyone could get in there.
I'm the only one, other than McMillan who can get at that stuff.
It's always been a big secret.
We don't even make any printouts of it.
It's never on paper, just in the computer.
Hugh fell back in the thinly stuffed torn red Naugahyde bench seat and gulped from his water glass. Scott shook his head as he scanned the notes he had been making. This didn't make any sense at all.
Here was this little nerdy man, with a convoluted tale of embezzlement and blackmail, off shore money and he was scared.
Let me see if I've got this right.
You were part of a scheme to shift investments overseas, falsify reports, yet the investments always made a reasonable return in investment.
I set it up that way on purpose.
Hugh interrupted. "OK, then you receive a call from some Englishman who says he's got the numbers you say are so safe and then I get a copy.
And the numbers agree with the results that First State reported.
Scott asked, almost mocking the apparent absurd- ity. "Yeah, that's it.
Hugh Sidneys was such a meek man. "That leaves me with a couple of possible conclusions.
One, you got yourself in over your head, finally decided to cut your losses and make up this incredible story.
Maybe make a deal with the cops or the Feds and try to be hero.
Maybe you're the embezzler and want out before it's too late.
Hugh's face grimaced; no, that's not what happened, it's just as I told you. "Or, two, McMillan is behind the disclosures and is now effec- tively sabotaging his own plans.
For what reasons I could hardly venture a guess now.
But, if what you are saying is true, it's either you or McMillan.
It was sound and took into account all available information, omitting any speculation. "Then why would someone want to threaten me? "Either you never got the call," the implication was obvious, "or McMillan is trying, quite effectively to spook you.
Scott put a few dollars on the table next to the check. "That's it?
You won't say anything, will you?
You promised!" Hugh leaned into Scott, very close. Scott consoled Hugh with a pat on his wrinkled suit sleeve.
Not without speaking to you first.
No, that wouldn't be cricket. Don't worry, I'll call you in a couple of days." His editor, Doug McGuire agreed that Scott should keep on it. There might be a story there, somewhere.
S&L RIP OFF EXPOSED! Scott's entire story, the one he wasn't permitted to print was being read by millions of mid-American supermarket shopping housewives.
In its typically sensationalistic manner, the arti- cle claimed that the Expose was in exclusive possession of documents that proved McMillan was stealing 10's of millions from First State S&L.
It even printed a fuzzy picture of the same papers that Scott had received.
How the hell? **************************************************************** Chapter 4 Thursday, September 10 Houston, Texas. Angela Steinem dialed extension 4343, Network Administration for MIS at the Treadline Oil Company in Houston, Texas.
It rang three times before Joan Appleby answered.
Joan was the daytime network administrator for Building 4.
Hundreds of IBM personal computers were connected together so they could share information over a Novell local area network. "Joan, I don't bug you much, right?
Angela said hesitantly. "Angela, how about a good morning girl?
They were good friends outside of work but had very little business contact. "Sorry, mornin'.
A little bird flew all over my computer and ate up all the letters and words on the screen.
Seriously." "Y'all are putting me on, right?
Maggie's voice lilted. "No. No, I'm serious.
It was like a simple video game, Pac-Man or something, ate up the screen.
I couldn't get it to come back so I turned my computer off and now it won't do anything.
All it says is COMMAND.COM cannot be found.
Now, what the hell does that mean." Joan Appleby now took Angela seriously.
It may mean that we have some mighty sick computers.
I'll be right there." By the end of work, the Treadline Oil Company was essentially at a standstill.
Over 4,000 of their internal microcomputers, mainly IBM and Compaq's were out of commission.
The virus had successfully struck. Angela Steinem and her technicians shut down the more than 50 local area networks and gateways that connected the various business units.
They contacted the National Computer Virus Association in San Mateo, California, NIST's National Computer Center Laboratories and a dozen or so other watchdog groups who monitor computer viruses. This was a new virus.
No one had seen it before.
Most mornings she brought in Dunkin' Donuts.
It was the only way she knew to insure that her weight would never ebb below 200 pounds.
Her pleasant silken skin did not match the plumpness below.
She turned on the power switch and waited as the hour- glass icon indicated that the computer was booting.
It was going through its self diagnostics as it did every time power was applied. Normally, after a few seconds, the Mac would come alive and the screen would display a wide range of options from which she could select.
THE TEST WILL ONLY TAKE A FEW SECONDS... WAITING.... WARNING: DO NOT TURN OFF COMPUTER DURING SELF TEST! As she was trained, she heeded her computer's instructions.
She watched and waited as the computer's hard disk whirred and buzzed.
She wasn't familiar with the message, but it sounded quite official, and after all, the computer is always right. And she waited.
Some few seconds, she thought, as she dove into her second donut.
And she waited through the third donut and another mug of too sweet coffee. She waited nearly a half an hour, trying to oblige the instruc- tions from the technocratic box on her desk.
The Mac continued to work, so she thought, but the screen didn't budge from it's warning message. What the hell, this has taken long enough.
What harm can it cause if . . . She turned the power switch off and then back on.
Nothing. The computer did absolutely nothing.
The power light was on, the disk light was on, but the screen was as blank as a dead televi- sion set. Mary called Violet Beecham, a co worker in another office down the hall. "'Morning Vi.
Yeah, Mare, what is it?" "I'm being a dumb bunny and need a hand with my computer.
Mary's sweetness oozed over the phone. "You, too?
My computer's as dead as a doornail.
Violet was frustrated as all get out and the concern communicated to Mary. "Dead?
Vi, mine is dead too.
What happened to yours?" "Damned if I know.
It was doing some self check or something, seemed to take forever and then . . .nothing.
What about yours?" "Same thing.
Have you called MIS yet?" "Not yet, but I'm getting ready to.
I never did trust these things.
Give me a typewriter any day." "Sure Vi.
I'll call you right back." Mary looked up the number for MIS Services, the technical magi- cians in the basement who keep the 3100 Congressional computers alive. "Dave here, can I help you?
The voice spoke quickly and indif- ferently. "Mary Wallstone, in Gompers office.
My computer seems to be having a little problem . . .
Mary tried to treat the problem lightly. "You and half of Congress.
Listen . . .is it Mary?
This morning is going to be a slow one.
My best guess is that over 2500 com- puters died a quick death.
And you know what that mean." "No, I don't...
Mary said hesitantly. "It means a Big Mac Attack." "A what?" "Big Mac, it's a computer virus.
We thought that Virus-Stop software would stop it, but I guess there's a new strain out there.
Congress is going to be ordering a lot of typewriters and legal pads for a while." "You mean you can't fix it?
This virus?" "Listen, it's like getting the flu.
Once you got it, you got it. You can't pretend you aren't sick.
Somebody took a good shot at Congress and well . . .they won.
We're gonna be down for a while.
Couple of weeks at least.
Look, good luck, but I gotta go.
Electronic mail, E- Mail that has saved taxpayers millions, will be unavailable for communications until October at a minimum.
Inter-office communi- cations, those that address legislative issues, proposed bills, and amendments have been destroyed and will require ". . .weeks and weeks and weeks of data entry just to get back where we started.
This is a disaster." The culprit is, of course, a computer virus.
The question on everyone's mind is, was this virus directed at Congress, or were they merely an anonymous and unfortunate victim? I have an IBM PC clone at home.
Technically it's an AT with a hard disk, so I'm not sure if that's an XT, and AXT, an XAT, an ATX or . . .well whatever.
It seems like a lot of things blow: a gasket blows, a light bulb blows, a tire blows or blows out, the wind blows.
I am sure that Thomas W.
Crapper, the 19th century inven- tor of the flush toilet would not be pleased that in 1988 man has toasters and other cooking devices that 'crap out'.
The Phone Company 'screws up', the stock market 'goes to hell in a handbas- ket' and VCR's 'work for s__t'. It never occurred to me that a computer could get sick. Computers are supposed to 'crash'.
That means that either Aunt Tillie can't find the ON switch or her cat knocked it on the floor.
But this microbe is smart, real smart.
It has heard of antibiotics, and in the spirit of true Darwinism, it replicates itself before being killed off with a strengthened immunity.
So, the microbe copies itself and when Kimmy Chen shakes hands with his custom- ers, some of them are lucky enough to receive an exact duplicate, clone if you will, of his microbe.
After a while, the mi- crobe mutates itself into a benign chemical compound that no longer can copy itself and the influenza epidemic is over.
No comment.) The point of all of this diatribe is that computers can get sick too.
With a virus. Don't worry, mom.
One day, years ago, Joe, (that's not a real name, it's changed to protect him) decided it would be great fun to play a prank on Bill, another programmer who worked at a big university.
Joe wrote a little program that he put into Bill's big computer.
Every time Bill typed the word 'ME' on his keyboard, the computer would take over.
His video screen would fill up with the word 'YOU', repeating itself hundreds and thou- sands of times.
Bill's computer would become useless. That was called a practical joke to computer programmers.
Joe and Bill both got a laugh out of it, and no harm was done.
Then Bill decided to get back at Joe.
He put a small program into Joe's big computer.
Other graduate students at the university got involved and soon computer folks at Cal Tech, MIT, Carnegie Mellon, Stanford and elsewhere got onto the bandwagon. Thus was born the world's first computer disease, the virus. This is Scott Mason.
The first public issues raised over $200 Million for less than 20% of the common stock.
With a book value in excess of $1 Billion, preparation for a second offering began immediately after the first sold out in 2 hours. The offering made Pierre Troubleaux, at 29, a rich man; a very rich man.
He netted almost $20 Million in cash and another $100 Million in options over 5 years.
DGI was the pearl of the computer industry in a time of shake ups and shake outs.
Raging profits, unbridled growth, phenomenal market penetration and superb management. Perhaps the most unique feature of DGI, other than its Presi- dent's deal with the devil, was that it was a one product compa- ny.
DGI was somewhat like Microsoft in that they both got rich and famous on one product.
It was a significant breakthrough for the industry. DGraph was so easy to use, and so powerful in its abilities that it was virtually an instant success.
Almost every computer manufacturer offered dGraph as part of its standard fare.
Just as a computer needed DOS to function, it was viewed that you needed dGraph before you even loaded the first program.
Operat- ing without dGraph was considered archaic.
How can you use your computer without dGraph?
I couldn't live without dGraph.
I'd be lost without dGraph." The ubiquitous non-technical secretaries especially loved dGraph. DGraph was taught at schools such as Katherine Gibbs and Secre- Temps who insisted that all its girls were fluent in its ad- vanced uses.
You just can't run a office without it! As much as anything in the computer industry is, dGraph was a standard.
Pierre Troubleaux was unfortunately under the misim- pression that the success for DGI was his and his alone and that he too was a standard . . .a fixture.
But the media hype had rele- gated that minor inconsistency to old news. In reality Troubleaux was a musician.
He was an accomplished pianist who also played another twenty instruments, very, very well.
By the age of ten he was considered something of a prodigy and his parents decided that they would move from Paris to New York, the United States, for proper schooling.
Pierre's scholar- ships at Julliard made the decision even easier. Over the years Pierre excelled in performances and was critically acclaimed as having a magnificent future where he could call the shots.
As a performer or composer.
But Pierre had other ideas. He was rapt in the study of the theory of music.
How notes related to each other.
How scales related to each other.
What made certain atonalities subjectively pleasing yet others com- pletely offensive.
He explored the relationships between Eastern polyphonic scales and the Western twelve note scale.
Discord, harmony, melody, emotional responses; these were the true loves of Pierre Troubleaux. Upon graduation from Julliard he announced, that contrary to his family's belief and desire, he would not seek advanced train- ing.
Rather, he would continue his study of musical relationships which by now had become an obsession.
There was little expertise in this specific area, so he pursued it alone.
He wrote and arranged music only to provide him with enough funds to exist in his pallid Soho loft in downtown Manhattan. He believed that there was an inherent underlying Natural Law that guided music and musical appreciation.
If he could find that Law, he would have the formula for making perfect music every time.
With the Law at the crux of all music, and with control over the Law, he ruminated, one could write a musical piece to suit the specific goals of the writer and create the desired effect on the listener.
By formula. In 1980 Pierre struggled to organize the unwieldy amount of data he had accumulated.
His collections of interpretive musical analysis filled file cabinets and countless shelves.
He relied on his memory to find anything in the reams of paper, and the situation was getting out of control.
He needed a solution. Max Jones was a casual acquaintance that Pierre had met at the Lone Star Cafe on the corner of 13th and 5th Avenue.
The Lone Star was a New York fixture, capped with a 60 foot iguana on the roof.
They both enjoyed the live country acts that played there. Max played the roll of an Urban Cowboy who had temporarily given up Acid Rock in favor of shit kickin' Southern Rock.
A complex mixture of com- puter junkie, rock'n'roll aficionado and recreational drug user, Max maintained the integrity of large and small computer systems to pay the bills. "That means they pretend to pay me and I pretend to work.
I don't really do anything productive." Max was an "ex-hippie who put on shoes to make a living" and a social anarchist at heart.
At 27, Max had the rugged look that John Travolta popularized in the 70's but on a rock solid trim six foot five 240 pound frame.
He dwarfed Pierre's mere five feet ten inches. Pierre's classic European good looks and tailored appearance, even in jeans and a T-shirt were a strong contrast to Max's ruddiness.
Pierre's jet black hair was side parted and covered most of his ears as it gracefully tickled his shoulders. Piercing black eyes stared over a prominent Roman nose and thin cheeks which tapered in an almost feminine chin.
There was never any confusion, though; no one in their right mind would ever view Pierre as anything but a confirmed and practiced heterosexual. His years of romantic achievements proved it.
The remnants of his French rearing created an unidentifiable formal and educated accent; one which held incredible sex appeal to American women. Max and Pierre sipped at their beers while Max rambled on about how wonderful computers were.
They were going to change the world. "In a few years every one on the planet will have his own comput- er and it will be connected to everyone else's computer.
All information will be free and the planet will be a better place to live and so on . . .
Max's technical sermons bordered on reli- gious preaching.
Pierre was trying to break into another one of Max's Apple pitches. "Yeah . . .oh yeah, sorry Amigo.
Max sipped deeply on a long neck Long Star beer. "These computers you play with . . ." "Not play, work with.
He pointed emphatically at nothing in particular. "OK, work with.
Can these computers play, er, work with music?" Max looked quizzically at Pierre.
You just program it in and out it comes.
In fact, the Apple II is the ideal computer to play music.
You can add a synthesizer chip and . . ." "What if I don't know anything about computers?" "Well, that makes it a little harder, but why doncha let me show you what I mean.
This was what he loved, playing with computers and talking to people about them.
The subject was still a mystery to the majority of people in 1980. Pierre winced.
He realized that if he took up Max on his offer he would be subjected to endless hours of computer war stories and technical esoterica he couldn't care less about.
That may be the price though, he thought.
I can always stop. Over the following months they became fast friends as Pierre tutored under Max's guiding hand.
Pierre found that the Apple had the ability to handle large amounts of data.
Computers, yes even Apples are stupid.
A shovel doesn't know what kind of dirt it's digging, just that it's digging.
Can't a com- puter learn?" Max was seriously stoned.
In theory it could learn to do your job or mine.
I remember a story I read by John Garth.
It was called Giles Goat Boy.
Yeah, Giles Goat Boy, what a title.
Essentially it's about this Goat, musta been a real smart goat cause he talked and thunk and acted like a kid." They both roared at the double entendre of kid.
They entered another spasm of laughter.
Most people either think, or like to think that a com- puter can think.
But they can't, at least not like you and me. " Max had calmed down. "So?
Pierre thought there might still be a point to this conver- sation. "So, in theory, yeah, but probably not for a while.
10 years or so." "In theory, what?
He was lost. "In theory a machine could think." "Oh.
Pierre was disappointed. "But, you might be able to emulate thinking.
Max re- treated into mental oblivion as Abbey Road played in the back- ground.
Anything from Apple records was required listening by Max. "Emulate.
What's emulate? Hey Max, c'mon back to Earth.
Emulate what?" Max jolted back to reality.
You know, act like. Emulate.
Don't they teach you emulation during sex education in France?
They both thought that that was the funniest thing ever said, in any language for all of written and pre-history. The substance of the evening's conversation went downhill from there. A few days later Max came by Pierre's loft.
I been thinking." "Scary thought.
Pierre didn't look up from his Apple. "About emulating thought.
You know what we were talking about the other night." "I can't remember this morning much less getting shit faced with you the other night." "You were going on and on about machines thinking.
Remember?" "Yes," Pierre lied. "Well, I've been thinking about it.
Max had a remarkable ability to recover from an evening of illicit recreation.
He could actually grasp the germ of a stoned idea and let a straight mind deal with it the following day.
And, I maybe got a way to do what you want." "What do I want?
Pierre tried to remember. "You want to be able to label all of your music so that to all appearances each piece of music knows about every other piece of music.
Right?" "Kinda, yeah, but you said that was impossible . . .
Pierre trailed off. "In the true sense, yes.
Naw, you were too stoned.
Max ran over to the fridge, grabbed a beer and leapt into a bean bag chair.
We assign a value to every piece of music.
For example, in music we might assign a value to each note.
Like, what note it is, the length of the note, the attack and decay are the raw data. That's just a number.
But the groupings of the notes are what's important.
Get it?" Pierre was intrigued.
Maybe Max did understand after all.
Pierre leaned forward with anticipation and listened intent- ly, unlike in one ear out the other treatment he normally gave Max's sermons. "So what we do is program the Apple to recognize patterns of notes; groupings, in any size.
We do it in pictures instead of words.
Maybe a bar, maybe a scale, maybe even an entire symphony orchestra.
All 80 pieces at once!
Max's enthusiasm was conta- gious.
As the data is put in the computer, you decide what you want to call each grouping.
You name it anything you want.
Then we could have the computer look for similar groupings and label them.
They could all be put on a curve, some graphic of some kind, and then show how they differ and by how much.
Over time, the computer could learn to recognize rock'n'roll from Opera from radio jingles to Elevator Music.
It's all in the patterns. Isn't that what you want?
Max beamed while speaking excitedly. He knew he had something here. Max and Pierre worked together and decided to switch from the Apple II computer to the new IBM PC for technical reasons beyond Pierre's understanding.
Pierre was programming in pictures and in pure English.
He was getting back some incredible results.
He was finding that many of the popu- lar rock guitarists were playing lead riffs that had a genealogy which sprang from Indian polyphonic sitar strains. He found curious relationships between American Indian rhythms and Baltic sea farer's music.
His didactic and circumlocu- tous preaching didn't get him far.
It's like creating a third dimension.
Data is conventionally viewed in a two dimensional viewing field, yet is really a one dimension stream.
In either source dimensional view, the addition of a three dimensional attribute structure yields interrelationships that are not inherently obvious.
Thus we use graphical representations to simplify the entire process." After several weeks of pounding the high risk financial community of the San Francisco Bay area, Max was despondent.
I outline the entire theory and they don't get it.
Jeez, it's so easy to use.
Then the light bulb lit in his mind.
Call Pierre. I need Pierre.
Call Pierre in New York. "Pierre, it's Max.
Max sounded quite excited. "How's the Coast." "Fine, Fine.
You're booked on American #435 tomorrow." "Max, I can't go to California.
I have so much work to do." "Bullshit.
Or have I forgotten to bill you for the engine?
He was calling in a favor. "Hey, it was my idea.
You didn't even understand what I was talking about until . . ." "That's the whole point, Pierre.
I can't explain the engine to these Harvard MBA asswipes.
It was your idea and you got me to understand.
I just need you to get some of these investors to understand and then we can have a company and make some money selling engines.
And, it was all due to Pierre.
His genial personality and ability to convey the subtleties of a complex piece of software using actual demonstrations from his music were the touchy-feely the investors wanted.
It wasn't that he was technical; he really wasn't.
But Pierre had an innate ability to recognize a problem, theoretical- ly, and reduce it to its most basic components.
And the Engine was so easy to use.
All you had to do was . . . It worked.
The brainy unintelligible technical wizard and char- ismatic front man.
And the device, whatever it was, it seemed to work. The investors installed their own marketing person to get sales going and Pierre was asked to be President.
At first he said he didn't want to.
He didn't know how to run a company.
That doesn't matter, the investors said.
You are a salable item.
A person whom the press and future investors can relate to.
We want you to be the image of the company.
All that European crap packaged for the media.
Steve Jobs all over again. Pierre relented, as long as he could continue his music. Max's engine was renamed dGraph by the marketing folks and the company was popularly known as DGI.
Users could assign their own language of, at that time, several hundred words, to describe the third dimension of data.
Or, they could do it in pictures.
While the data on the screen was being manipulated, the computer, unbeknownst to the operator, was constantly forming and updating relationships between the data.
Ready to be called upon at any time. As the ads said, "dGraph for dData." As success reigned, the demand upon Pierre's time increased so that he had little time for his music.
By 1986 he lived a virtu- al fantasy.
He was on the road, speaking, meeting with writers, having press conferences every time a new use for dGraph was announced.
He was adored by the media.
And the company spar- kled too.
It was being run by professionals and Max headed up the engineering group.
He was making a great deal of money, ran his own show with the casualness of his former hippie days, yet could get on the road with Pierre any time he needed a break.
Pierre got into the act hook, line and sinker and Max acted the role of genius behind 'The Man'.
That gave Max the freedom to avoid the microscope of the press yet take a twirl in the fast lane whenever he felt the urge. The third round of funding for DGI came from an unexpected place.
Normally when a company is as successful as DGI, the original investors go along for the ride.
That's how the VC's who worked with Lotus, Compaq, Apple and other were getting filthy stinking rich.
The first two rounds went as they had planned, the third didn't. "Mr. Troubleaux," Martin Fisk, Chairman of Underwood Investments said to Pierre in DGI's opulent offices.
Pierre, there is only one way to say this.
Our organization will no longer be involved with DGI.
We have sold our interest to a Japanese firm who has been trying to get into the American computer field." "What will that change?
Pierre was nonplused by the announcement. "Not as far as you're concerned.
Oh, they will bring in a few of their own people, satisfy their egos and protect their invest- ment, that's entirely normal.
But, they especially want you to continue on as President of DGI.
No, no real changes." "What about Max?
Pierre had true concern for his friend. "He'll remain, in his present capacity.
Essentially the finan- cial people will be reporting to new owners that's all." "Are we still going to go public?
That's the only way I'm gonna make any real money." Martin was flabbergasted.
Pierre wasn't in the least interested as to why the company changed hands.
He only wanted to know about the money, how much money he would make and when.
Pierre never bothered to ask, nor was it offered, that Underwood would profit over 400 percent on their original investment.
The Japa- nese buyer was paying more than the company was worth now.
They had come in offering an amount of money way beyond what an open- ing offer should have been.
Underwood did a search on the Japa- nese company and its American subsidiary, Data Tech.
They were real, like $30 Billion real and did were expanding into the information processing field through acquisitions, primarily in the United States. Underwood sold it's 17% stake in DGI for $350 Million, more than twice its true value.
They sold quickly and quietly.
Even though Pierre and Max should have had some say in the transfer, Under- wood controlled the board of directors and technically didn't need the founder's consensus.
Not that it overtly appeared to mattered to Pierre.
They would each continue in their respective roles.
The day to day interference was expected to be minimal, but the planned public offering would be accelerated.
That suited Pierre just fine; he would make out like a bandit. Several days before the date of issue, Pierre received a call from Tokyo. "Mr. Troubleaux?
The thick Japanese accent mangled his name so badly Pierre cringed. "Yes, this is Pierre Troubleaux," he said exaggerating his French accent.
Would this be convenient?" Pierre had only one possible response to the command performance he was being 'invited' to.
Since OSO had bought into DGI, Pierre was constantly mystified by the ritualism associated with Japanese business.
They could say "Yes!" a hundred times in a meeting, yet everyone present understood that the speakers really meant "No Way, Jose!
There of course was the need for a quality gift for any visitor from Japan.
Johnny Walker Black was the expected gift over which each recipient would feign total sur- prise.
Pierre had received more pearl jewelry from the Japanese than he could use for ten wives.
But the ritual was preserved. "Of course it will.
I would be most honored.
If you could provide me with details of his flight I will see to it that he receives appropriate treatment." "Very good Mr. Troubleaux.
Pierre stifled a smirk at the mispro- nunciation.
Your trouble will not go unrewarded." "Mr. Homosoto, it is so good of you to visit at this time.
Pierre was kissing some ass. "Troubleaux-San," Homosoto's English had a touch of Boston snobbery in it, "you have performed admirably, and we all look to continued successes in the future.
I expect, as I am sure you do, that the revenues raised from your public stock offering will provide your company with the resources to grow ten fold.
It was a statement that demanded an answer.
Another Japanese quirk. "Yessir, of course.
As you know, Mr. Homosoto, I am not involved in the day to day operations and the forecasting.
Your offer is most kind." "Why do you call DGI my business?
Aren't we in this together? Partners?
Pierre clarified the idiom for the rotund bespecta- cled Chairman of OSO Industries. "Hai!
Of course, my friend, we are partners, and you will be very wealthy in a few days.
That statement had the air of an accusation more than good wishes.
There is one little thing, though.
It is so small that I don't wish to mention it." Well then don't, thought Pierre.
Nothing is so small it should- n't be mentioned.
How may I help?" "That's it exactly!
I do need your help.
Not today, but in the future, perhaps a small favor." "Anytime at all, sir.
Whatever I can I will.
Just some more Japanese business practices that escaped him. Homosoto leaned in towards Pierre.
His demeanor had shifted to one of a very serious man.
Mr. Troubleaux, how can I be sure that you won't disappoint me?
How can I be sure?" The question threw Pierre for a loop.
How can he be sure?
Maybe this was only an Oriental game of mumbley peg or chicken.
Sir, what would I need to do to convince you of my willingness to comply?
When in doubt, ask. Homosoto relaxed again, leaned back in the plush office chair and smiled.
In my country, Mr., Troubleaux, honor is everything. You have nothing, nothing without your honor.
Every child, man and woman in Japan knows that.
We are raised with the focus of growth being honor.
This guy is truly nuts. "Do not worry, Mr. Troubleaux, I can see what you are thinking. No. I only speak of kamikaze pilots to serve as example of honor.
The kind that brought honor to Japan in the face of defeat.
That is something Americans will never understand.
But then again you're not American are you?" "I was born a Frenchman, but I naturalized over twenty years ago, at the same time my parents did." "Ah yes.
Then honor does mean more to you than to most Americans.
That will be quite good.
Now, for the future favor.
I require nothing of you today, other than the guarantee of you honor.
Is that agreeable to you, Mr. Troubleaux?
Homoso- to was pushing with the facade of friendliness.
Pierre's concern was not alleviated.
All the same, he reluctantly nodded his assent. "Very good.
Homosoto stood up and reached inside his size 48, ill fitting suit.
Pierre was amazed at how much money the Japanese had, yet were apparently unable to ever wear clothes that fit properly. Homosoto handed a 5 1/4" floppy disk to Pierre.
Pierre took it carefully from Homosoto and looked at the label.
The diskette was marked only with: FILE1.EXE to FILE93.EXE He looked inquisitively at Homosoto, his eyes asking, Yeah, so? What's this got to do with anything? "I see now you are confused.
It is so simple, really.
Sometime in the future, you will be instructed to add one of the files on this disk onto the dGraph programs you sell.
So I have your word Mr. Troubleaux?
Honor among men." Pierre's mind was racing.
Put a file onto a program?
No that can't be it.
What's with the honor bit? From the Chairman of OSO, not a technician?
One floppy disk? Pierre smelled a fox in the chicken coup. "Mr. Homosoto, sir.
But, I hardly know what to think.
I don't even know what this disk is.
You are asking me to promise something I don't understand.
What if I don't agree.
At least until I know what I'm doing?
I need to know what's going on here." he said holding the disk up promi- nently. "I prefer to think, Mr. Troubleaux of what occurs as long as you do agree to maintain the honor between us.
It is so much more pleasant.
Homosoto closed the door behind him. * * * * * Alexander Spiradon was pleased.
Alex hadn't spoken to Homosoto in a couple of months.
It was now time to report to Homosoto in Tokyo.
It was 17 hours earlier there - Homosoto would probably be at his desk.
The modem dialed a local Brookline number.
Any telephone tracing would take weeks, requiring the cooperation of courts from every state where a forwarded phone was located. Then, the State Department would have to coordinate with the Japanese Embassy.
An almost impossible task, if anyone had the resources.
It took about 45 seconds for the call to be complet- ed. <<<<<<CONNECTION>>>>>> PASSWORD: Alex entered his password, GESUNDHEIT and his forced response from his own PRG card.
If he was on satellite to Japan, or to Dallas or anywhere else, his signal could travel a hundred thousand miles or more each time he sent a character from his keyboard. CRYPT KEY: Alex Spiradon chose 43.
Each communication he had with Homosoto was also protected with full encryption.
If someone was able to isolate their conversations, all they would get would be sheer garbage, a screen full of unintelligible symbols and random characters.
By choosing 43, Alex told his computer and Homosoto's computer to use Crypt Key 43, one of over 100 secret keys that both computers held in their memory.
YOU HAVE SOMETHING TO REPORT. Yes.
All is in place. PLEASE CLARIFY . . .MY MEMORY IS NOT WHAT IT WAS. Of course.
The last of the Operators are in place.
We call him Sir George.
San Francisco, (SF), New York, (NY), Los Angeles, (LA), Boston, (BM), Atlanta, (AG) Chica- go, (CI), Washington, (DC) and Dallas, (DT). AND THEY CAN BE TRUSTED? They are aware of the penalty.
If not, we have others that will replace them.
Besides, you are rewarding them most handsomely for their efforts. SO I AM. I EXPECT RESULTS.
AND THE OTHERS? The Mail Men are waiting as well.
Four of them in NY, DC, LA and DT. YOU SAY MAIL MEN.
WHAT IS THAT TERM? They will deliver our messages in writing to those who need additional proof of our sincerity.
They know nothing other than they get paid, very well, to make sure that the addressees are in receipt of their packages. VERY GOOD.
AND THEY TOO ARE RESPONSIBLE? Yes.
Elimination is a strong motivation.
Besides, they know nothing. WHAT IF THEY READ THE CONTENTS? That can only help.
They do not know where the money comes from. Most need the money more than their lives.
My contacts make my choices ideal.
Death is . . .so permanent. I AGREE.
IT MAKES MEN HONORABLE, DOES IT NOT? Most of the time, yes.
There are always exceptions, and we are prepared for that, too. THE SEKIGUN-HA ARE AT YOUR DISPOSAL. Thank you.
The Ground Hogs, the first are in place. HOW MANY AND WHERE. Over 50 so far.
We have 11 in the long distance phone companies and at AT&T, 3 at IBM, 14 in government positions, 12 in major banks, a couple of insurance companies, 3 Hospitals are compromised . . .and a list of others.
We will keep the channels full, I promise. HOW WILL THEY FUNCTION? They will gain access to the information we need, and when we call, they will perform.
I will add more as we proceed.
It amazes me, these Americans.
Anything for a buck. DO NOT DISAPPOINT ME. I will not.
When will the information be ready? SOON.
DO THEY UNDERSTAND? Ground Hogs receive 2 paychecks.
They understand their obliga- tions.
We pay 10 times their salary for their allegiance.
The Operators and Mail Men will start soon. THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS ALLEGIANCE.
DON'T YOU KNOW THAT YET? Americans pay homage to the almighty dollar, and nothing else. They will be loyal. AS YOU ARE MOTIVATED MY FRIEND, I DO NOT FORGET THAT.
DO YOU UNDERSTAND THE RISK? Completely.
I am responsible for my people. AND THEY ARE PREPARED FOR THEIR JOBS? Yes.
That is my responsibility, to insure the security of our task.
I know my job. DO IT WELL.
I WILL LEAVE YOU. <<<<< CONNECTION TERMINATED>>>>>> **************************************************************** Chapter 5 Monday, September 14 New York City Doug!
Scott hollered across the city room.
As in most newspaper offices, the constant scurry of people bumping into each other while reading and walking gave the impression of more activity than there really was.
Desks were not in any particular pattern, but it wasn't totally chaotic either.
Every desk had at least one computer on it.
Scott pushed back into place those that he dislodged while running to McGuire's desk. Doug McGuire noticed the early hour, 8:39 A.M. on the one wall clock that gave Daylight Savings Time for the East Coast.
The other dozen or so clocks spanned the time zones of the globe.
It wasn't like Scott to be his energetic youthful self before noon. "Doug, I need you.
Scott shouted from 3 desks away.
It'll just take a minute." Scott nearly dragged the balding, overweight, sometimes harsh 60 year old Doug McGuire across the newsroom.
They abruptly halted in front of Scott's desk.
Boxes full of files everywhere; on the floor, piled 3 or 4 high, on his desk.
Will you look at this. Just look at this!
He stuck a single sheet of paper too close into Doug's face.
Doug pushed it away to read it out loud. McGuire read from the page.
A Message from a Fan.
He motioned at the paper hurricane on Scott's desk.
So, what is this mess?
Where did it come from?" Scott spoke excitedly.
I got another delivery, about an hour ago.
I think it's from the same guy who sent the McMillan stuff.
He perused the boxes. "Why do you say that?
Doug asked curiously. "Because of what's in here.
I haven't been able to go through much of it, obviously, but I scanned through a few of the boxes. There's dirt on almost every company in the Fortune 1000.
Copies of memoranda, false figures, confidential position statements, the truth behind a lot of PR scandals, it goes on and on. There's even a copy of some of the shredded Ollie North papers. Or so they say they are.
There are notes about behind the scene plays on mergers, who's screwing who to get deals done . . .it's all here.
A hundred years of stories right here . . .". "Let's see what we've got here.
Doug was immediately hooked by the treasure trove of potential in from of them coupled with Scott's enthusiasm.
The best stories come from the least likely places.
No reporter ever forgets the 3rd rate burglary at the Watergate that brought down a President. By late afternoon, Scott and several of the paper's researchers had set up a preliminary filing system.
They categorized the hundred of files and documents and computer printouts by company, alphabetically.
Over 150 of the top American corporations were represented directly, and thousands of other by reference.
In every case, there was a revelation of one or more particularly embarrassing or illegal activities.
Some were documented accounts and histories of past events and others that were in progress.
Many of the papers were prognostications of future events of questionable ethics or legality.
The false books, the jim- mied numbers . . .they were in the boxes too, but that was almost accepted accounting practice as long as you didn't get caught. But the depth of some of the figures was amazing.
Or how certain elected officials in Washington had pocketed funds from their PAC monies or how defense contractors were advised in advance of the con- tents of an upcoming billion dollar RFP. The cartons of files were absolute political dynamite.
And, if released, could have massive repercussions in the world financial community. There was a fundamental problem, though.
Scott Mason was in possession of unsupported, but not unreasonable accusations, they were certainly believable.
Papers meant not for anyone but only for a select group of insiders. Lastly, and just as important to the reporter; why?
What would someone gain from telling all the nasty goings on inside of Corporate America.
There have been so many stories over the years about this company or that screwing over the little guy. How the IRS and the government operated substantially outside of legal channels.
The kinds of things that the Secretary of the Treasury would prefer were kept under wraps.
Sometimes stories of this type made the news, maybe a trial or two, but not exactly noteworthy in the big picture.
Where there's smoke, there's fire. * * * * * Fire.
That's exactly what Franklin Dobbs didn't want that Monday morning.
He and 50 other Corporate CEO's across the country received their own unsolicited packages by courier.
Each CEO received a dossier on his own company.
A very private dossier containing information that technically didn't, or wasn't offi- cially supposed to exist.
Each one read their personalized file cover to cover in absolute privacy.
Regardless, boardrooms shook to their very core. Wall Street trading was untypically low for a Monday, less than 50,000,000 shares.
A few agreed to talk together.
Unofficially of course, just for a couple of drinks with friends, and there's nothing wrong, we admit nothing, of course not. These are the rules strictly obeyed for a non-encounter that isn't happening.
So they didn't meet in a very private room, upstairs at the Executive Club, where sensitive meetings often never took place.
One's presence in that room is as good as being on in a black hole.
You just weren't there, no matter what. Perfect. The room that wasn't there was heavily furnished and dark.
The mustiness lent to the feeling of intrigue and incredulity the 7 CEO's felt.
Massive brown leather couches and matching oversized chairs surrounded by stout mahogany tables were dimly lit by the assortment of low wattage lamp fixtures.
There was a huge round dining table large enough for all of Camelot, surrounded by mammoth chairs in a large ante-room.
The brocade curtains covered long windows that stretched from the floor to ornate corner moldings of the 16 foot ceilings. One tired old black waiter with short cropped white hair appeared and disappeared skillfully and invisibly.
He was so accustomed to working with such distinguished gentlemen, and knew how impor- tant their conversations were, that he took great pride in re- filling a drink without being noticed.
With his little game, he made sure that drinks for everyone were always full.
They spoke openly around Lambert.
Lambert had worked the room since he was 16 during World War II and he saw no reason to trade occupations; he was treated decently, and he doubled as a bookie for some members which added to his income.
There was mutual trust. "I don't know about you gentlemen," said Porter Henry, the ener- getic and feisty leader of Morse Technologies, defense subcon- tractor.
I personally call this blackmail.
A few nods. "I'm not about to admit to anything, but have you been threat- ened?" demanded Ogden Roberts, Chairman of National First Inter- state. "No, I don't believe any of us have, in so many words.
And no, none of us have done anything wrong.
We are merely trying to keep sensitive corporate strategies private.
But, I do take the position that we are being intimidated.
This is tantamount to blackmail.
Or the precursor at a minimum." They discussed, in the most circumlocutous manner, possibilities. The why, how, and who's.
Who would know so much, about so many, supposedly sacrosanct secrets.
Therefore there must have been a lot of whos, mustn't there?
They figured about 50 of their kindred CEO's had received similar packages, so that meant a lot of whos were behind the current crisis in privacy.
Or maybe just one big who.
OK, that's narrowed down real far; either a lot of whos, one big who, or somewhere in between. Why?
They all agreed that demands would be coming, so they looked for synergy between their firms, any sort of connections that spanned at first the seven of those present, to predict what kinds of demands.
But it is difficult to find hard business connections between an insurance company, a bank, 2 defense contractors, a conglomerate of every drug store product known to man and a fast food company.
The thread wasn't there. How?
They certainly hadn't come up with any answers on the other two questions, so this was asking the impossible.
CEO's are notorious for not knowing how their compa- nies work on a day to day basis.
Thus, after 4 or 5 drinks, spurious and arcane ideas were seriously considered.
UFO's were responsible, I once saw one . . .my secretary, I never really trusted her at all . . .the Feds!
Silence cut through the room instantly.
Lambert looked up from his corner to make sure they were all still alive. "I'm serious.
We all operate interstate, and internationally.
Would you prefer the NYPD?" he said dero- gatorally waiting any voices of dissent. "C'mon Frank.
What are we going to tell them?
Ogden Roberts the banker asked belligerently.
The liquor was having an effect. "Certainly not the truth . . ." he cut himself short, realizing that he came dangerously close to admitting some indefinable wrong he had committed.
You know what I mean," he quickly added. "We don't go into all of the detail.
An abbreviated form of the truth, all true, but maybe not everything.
I am sure we all agree that we want to keep this, ah, situation, as quiet as possible.
Rapid assent came from all around. "All we need to say is that we have been contacted, in a threat- ening manner.
That no demands have been made yet, but we are willing to cooperate with the authorities.
That would give us all a little time, to re-organize our priorities, if you see what I mean?
The seven CEO's were thoughtful. "Now this doesn't mean that we all have to agree on this," Franklin Dobbs said.
But as for me, I have gone over this, in limited detail, with my attorney, and he agrees with it on a strategic level.
If someone's after you, and you can't see 'em, get the guys with the White Hats on your side.
I am going to the FBI.
From the executive offices on the 66th floor, on a clear day, the view reached as far as the Pacific.
Taki Homosoto started a tire retreading business in 1946, during the occupation of Japan.
The Americans were so smart, he thought.
Bring over all of your men, tanks, jeeps and doctors not telling us the truth about radiation, and you forget spare tires.
Good move, Yankee. Taki gouged the Military on pricing so badly, and the Americans didn't seem care, that the Pentagon didn't think twice about paying $700 for toilet seats decades later.
Taki did give great service - after all his profits were so staggeringly high he could afford it.
Keep the American's happy, feed their ego, and they'll come back for more.
Suckers. When the Americans moved in for Korea, Tokyo was both a command post for the war effort and the first choice of R&R by service- men.
OSO Industries was in a perfect position to take advantage of the US Government's tire needs throughout the conflict.
OSO was already in place, doing a good job; Taki had bought some friends in the US military, and a few arrangements were made to keep business coming his way. Taki accumulated millions quickly.
Now he needed to diversify. Realizing that the war would come to an end some day, Homosoto begin making plans.
OSO Radio sets appeared on the market before the end of the Korean Police Action.
Then, with the application of the transistor, the portable radio market exploded.
OSO Industries made more transistor radios than all other Japanese electronics firms combined.
Then came black and white televi- sions.
The invention of the single beam color TV tube again brought OSO billions in revenues every year. Now, OSO was the model of a true global corporation.
OSO owned banks and investment companies.
Their semiconductor and electron- ics products were household words.
They controlled a vast network of companies; electronic game manufacturers, microwave and appli- ance manufacturers, and notably, acres and acres of Manhattan Island, California and Hawaii.
They owned and operated communi- cations companies, including their own geosynchronous satellite. OSO positioned itself as a holding company with hundreds of subsidiaries, each with their own specialty, operating under thousands of names.
Taki Homosoto wove an incredibly complex web of corporate influence and intrigue. OSO was one of the 10 largest corporations in the world.
Reaga- nomics had already assisted in making OSO and Homosoto himself politically important to both Japan and the US.
Exactly how Homosoto wanted it.
American leaders, Senators, Congressmen, appointees, lobbyists, in fact much of Washington coddled up to Homosoto.
His empire planned years in advance.
The US Govern- ment, unofficially craved his insights, and in characteristic Washington style, wanted to be near someone important.
He was a most cordial, unassuming humble guest.
He played the game magnificently. Almost the entire 66th floor of the OSO Bank Building was dedi- cated to Homosoto and his immediate staff.
The atrium in the lobby vaulted almost 700 feet skyward precursoring American hotel design in the next decade.
Plants, trees over 100 feet tall and waterfalls graced the atria and the overhanging skylobbies.
The first floor lobby was designed around a miniature replica of the Ging Sha forest, fashioned with thousands of Bonzai trees.
The mini forest was built to be viewed from various heights within the atrium to simulate a flight above the earth at distances from 2 to 150 miles. The lobby of OSO Industries was a veritable museum.
To all appearances, the procedure was no more than airport security.
However to the initiate or the suspect, it was evident from the accuracy with which the guards targeted specific contraband on a person or in his belongings that they knew more than they were telling.
The OSO guards had the girth of Sumo wrestlers, and considering their sheer mass, they received little hassle.
Very few deemed it prudent to cross them. The lobby for all of its grandeur, ceilings of nearly 700 feet, was a fairly austere experience.
But, the elevator to the 66th floor altered that image at once.
It was this glass walled elevator, the size of a small office, with appropriately comfort- able furnishings, that Miles Foster rode.
From the comfort of the living room setting in the elevator, he enjoyed a panorama of the atrium as it disappeared beneath him.
He looked at the forest and imagined what astronauts saw when they catapulted into orbit.
The executive elevator was much slower than the others. Either the residents in the penthouse relished the solitude and view or they had motion sickness.
Nonetheless, it was most impressive. "Ah, Mister Foster!
Please to step this way." Miles Foster was expected at the terminus of the lift which opened into an obscenely large waiting room that contained a variety of severe and obviously uncomfortable furniture.
That's exactly what this is.
Another art gal- lery, albeit a private one for the eyes of his host and no one else.
White walls, white ceilings, polished parquet floors, track lighting, recessed lights, indirect lights.
Miles noticed that the room as pure as the driven snow didn't have any windows.
He paused and stood at attention as he blurted an obedient "Hai!" The aide opened both doors from the middle, and in deference to Mr. Foster, moved to one side to let the visitor be suitably impressed.
Homosoto's office was a total contrast to his gal- lery.
Miles first reaction was astonishment.
The ceiling slanted to a height of over 25 feet at the outer walls, which were floor to ceiling glass.
The immense room provided not only a spectacular view of Tokyo and 50 miles be- yond, but lent one the feeling of being outside. Coming from the U.S.
Government, such private opulence was not common.
It was to be expected in his family's places of business, the gaming parlors of Las Vegas, but not in normal commerce.
He had been to Trump Tower in New York, but that was a public build- ing, a place for tourists.
This office, he used the word liber- ally, was palatial. It was decorated in spartan fashion with cherry wood walls. Artwork, statues, figurines, all Japanese in style, sat wherever there was an open surface.
A few gilt shelves and marble display tables were randomly scattered around the room.
Not chaoticly; just the opposite.
The scattering was exquisitely planned. There was a dining alcove, privatized by lavish rice paper panels for eating in <MI>suhutahksi<D>.
Eating on the floor was an honored ritual.
There was a small pit under the table for curl- ing one's legs on the floor. A conference table with 12 elegant wooden chairs sat at the opposite end of the cavernous office.
In the center of the room, at the corner of the building, was Homosoto's desk, or work surface if you prefer.
It was large enough for four, yet Homoso- to, as he stood to greet Foster, appeared to dwarf his environ- ment and desk.
Not in size, but in confidence.
His personage was in total command.
The desk and its equipment were on a plat- form some 6" above the rest of the room.
The intended effect was not lost on Foster. The sides of the glossy cherrywood desk were slightly elevated to make room for a range of video monitors, communications facili- ties, and computers which accessed Homosoto's empire.
A vast telephone console provided tele-conferencing to OSO offices worldwide.
Dow Jones, CNN, Nippon TV were constantly displayed, visible only to Homosoto.
This was Homosoto's Command Central as he liked to call it. Foster gawked at the magnificent surroundings as he stood in front of his assigned seat.
A comfortable, plush, black leather chair.
It was one of several arranged in a sunken conversation pit. Homosoto acknowledged Foster's presence with the briefest of nods as he stepped down off of his aerie.
A dark brown suit, matching solid tie and the omnipres- ent solid white starched shirt.
It didn't fit, like most Japa- nese business uniforms. He was short, no more than five foot six, Miles noticed, after Homosoto got down to the same level as the rest of the room.
On the heavy side, he walked slowly and deliberately.
Eyes forward after the obligatory nod.
His large head was sparsely covered with little wisps of hair in nature's futile attempt to clothe the top of his freckled skull.
Even at 59 Homosoto's hair was still pitch black.
Miles wasn't sure if Grecian Formula was available in Japan.
The short crop accentuated the pronounced ears. A rounded face was peppered with spots, dark freckles perhaps, or maybe carcinoma.
His deep set black eyes stared through the object of his attention.
Homosoto was not the friendly type, thought Miles. Homosoto stood in front of Miles, extended his hand and bowed the most perfunctory of bows.
Miles took his hand, expecting a strong grip.
Instead he was greeted with a wet fish handshake which wriggled quickly from his grasp.
Homosoto didn't give the slightest indication of a smile.
The crow's feet around his eyes were caused by pudginess, not happiness.
When he sat opposite Foster in a matching chair, he began without any pleasantries. "I hear you are the best.
It was a statement that required a response. Foster shifted his weight a little in the chair.
What a way to start.
This guy must think he's hot shit.
Well, maybe he is. First class, all expense paid trip to Tokyo, plus consultation fees.
Just for one conversation, he was told, we just want some advice.
Then, last night, and the night before, he was honored with sampling the finest Oriental women.
All expenses paid, of course.
He didn't relax his intensity. "Mr. Foster," Homosoto continued, his face still emotionless. "Are you as good as they say?" he demanded. Miles Foster defiantly spat out the one word response.
Mr. Foster, if that is true, we can do business.
But first, I must be convinced.
I can assure you we know quite a bit about you already, otherwise you wouldn't be here.
Miles noticed that Homosoto spoke excellent English, clipped in style, but Americanized.
He occasionally stretched his vowels, to the brink of a drawl. "Yeah, so what do you know.
Pulled up a few data bases?
Miles cocked his head at Homosoto's desk.
I would assume that with that equipment, you can probably get whatever you want." Homosoto let a shimmer of a smile appear at the corners off his mouth.
You are most perceptive, Mr. Foster.
Homosoto paused and leaned back in the well stuffed chair.
Mr. Foster, tell me about your family." Miles neck reddened.
You called me, I didn't call you. All I ever knew about OSO was that you made ghetto blasters, TV's and vibrators.
So therefore, you wanted me, not my family.
If you had wanted them you would have called them.
So, keep my family the fuck out of it." "I do not mean to offend," Homosoto said offensively.
I just am most curious why you didn't go to work for your family.
You would have been a very important man, and a very rich one.
Homosoto said matter of factly.
So, the prudent man must wonder why you went to work for your Government? Aren't your family and your government, how shall I say, on opposite sides?" "My family's got nothing to do with this or you.
But, out of courtesy for getting me laid last night, I might as well tell you.
I went to the feds cause they have the best computers, the biggest equipment and the most interesting work.
Not much money, but I have a backup when I need it.
If I went to work for my family, as you put it, I would have been a glorified beancounter.
And that's not what I do.
It would have been no challenge.
Miles smiled sarcastically at Homosoto.
Happy now?" Homosoto didn't flinch.
Does that mean you do not disapprove of your family's activities?
How they make money?" "I don't give a fuck!
How does that grab you?
I don't give a flying fuck.
They were real good to me, paid a lot of my way.
I love my mother and she's not a hit man.
My uncle does I don't know what or care.
How much clearer do you want it?
Miles continued shouting. Homosoto grinned and held up his hands.
My apologies Mr. Foster. I mean no disrespect.
I just like to know who works for me." "Hey, I don't work for you yet." "Of course, a simple slip of the tongue." "Right.
Miles snapped sarcastically. Homosoto ignored this last comment.
The insincere smile left his face, replaced with a more serious countenance.
Why did you leave your post with the National Security Agency, Mr. Foster?" Another inquisition, thought Miles.
Make it good for the gook. "'Cause I was working for a bunch of bungling idiots who insured their longevity by creating an invincible bureaucracy.
Miles decided that a calm beginning might be more appropriate.
They had no real idea of what was going on.
Their heads were so far up their ass they had a tan line across their chests.
Whenever we had a good idea, it was either too novel, too expensive or needed additional study.
Or, it was relegated to a committee that might react in 2 years.
What a pile of bullshit, a waste of time.
We could have achieved a lot more without all the inter- ference." "Mr. Foster, you say, 'we'.
Homosoto pointedly asked Miles. "The analysts, the people who did the real work.
There were hundreds of us on the front lines.
The guys who sweated weekends and nights to make our country safe from the Communists.
The managers just never got with the program." "Mr. Foster, how many of the other analysts, in your opinion, are good?" Miles stepped back in his mind to think about this.
Oh, I guess I knew a half dozen guys, and one girl, who were pretty good. She was probably the best, other than me," he bragged.
Miles looked up in thought.
Ah, chicks, fox, look- er, sweet meat, gash, you know?" "Do you mean she's very pretty?" Miles suppressed an audible chuckle.
Real pretty, but real smart, too.
Odd combination, isn't it?" he smiled a wicked smile. Homosoto ignored the crudeness.
What are your politics, Mr. Foster?" "Huh?
What the hell has that got to do with any- thing?
Miles demanded. "Just answer the question, please, Mr. Foster?
Homosoto quietly ordered. Miles was getting incensed.
I vote who the fuck I want to vote for.
Other than that, I don't play." "Don't play?
Homosoto briefly pondered the idiom.
I vote for the stupidest assholes running for office.
With any luck he'll win and really screw things up.
Homosoto hit one of Miles hot buttons. Politics.
He listened attentively to Miles as he carried on. "That's about the only way to fix anything.
First fuck it up. Real bad.
Since the Government ignores whoever or whatever isn't squeaking that's the only way to get any atten- tion.
Once you create a crisis, Jeez, just look at Granada and Panama and Iraq to justify Star Wars, you get a lot of people on for the ride.
Just look at the national energy debate.
Great idea, 30 years and $5 trillion late.
We got a big problem.
We better fix it.' Then they all want to be heroes and every podunk politico shoots off his mouth about the latest threat to humanity. " "That's your politics?" "Sure.
If you want to get something fixed, first fuck it up so bad that everyone notices and then they'll be crawling up your ass trying to help you fix it." "Very novel, Mr. Foster.
Very novel and very cynical.
Homosoto looked mildly amused. "Not meant to be.
Just true." "It seems to me that you hold no particular allegiance.
Would that be a fair observation?
Homosoto pressed the same line of questioning. "To me.
And not much of anything else." Miles sounded defensive. "Then, Mr. Foster, what does it take to make you a job offer.
I am sure money isn't everything to a man like you.
All 10 of his fingers met in mirror image fashion and performed push ups on each other. Foster returned Homosoto's dare with a devastating stare-down that looked beyond Homosoto's face.
It looked right into his mind.
Foster used the knuckles from both hands for supports as he leaned on the table between them.
He began speaking deliber- ately and coherently. "My greatest pleasure?
Yes, the money is nice, don't get me wrong, but the thrill is the chal- lenge.
I spent years with people ignoring my advice, refusing to listen to me.
And I was right so many times when they were wrong.
Then they would start blaming everyone else and another committee is set up to find out what went wrong.
I would love to teach them a lesson." "How unfortunate for them that they failed to recognize your abilities and let your skills serve them.
Homosoto said somberly. "So," Miles said arrogantly as he retreated back to his seat, "you seem to be asking a lot of questions, and getting a lot of answers.
It is your dime, so I owe you something.
But, Mr. Homosoto, I would like to know what you're looking for." Homosoto stood up erect.
You are what I have been looking for.
And, if you do your job right, I am making the assumption you will accept, you will become wealthier than you ever hoped.
Mr. Foster, your reputation precedes you.
He sincerely extended his hand to Foster.
I do believe we can do business.
His life was just threatened and he didn't know what to do about it.
What the hell was this disk anyway?
Industrial espionage? Then why put it on the dGraph disks and programs?
I don't remember what I said.
Maybe I said maybe. Panic yielded to confusion.
This was just some old Japanese guy who was making some veiled Oriental threat. No, it was another one of those cultural differences.
Like calisthenics before work at those Japanese companies that satu- rate the West Coast.
Sure it sounded like a threat, but this is OSO Industries we are talking about.
That would be like the head of Sony using extortion to sell Walkmen.
All the same, it was scary and he had no idea what was on the disk.
What he meant, and Max understood, was 'I need you.
Get your ass up here now.' "On my way Amigo." The next few minutes waiting for Max proved to be mentally ex- hausting.
He thought of hundreds of balancing arguments for both sides of the coin.
Be concerned, this guy is nuts and meant it, or I misunderstood something, or it got lost in the translation. He prayed for the latter. "Yo, what gives?
Max walked into Pierre's office without knock- ing. "Tell me what's on this!
Pierre thrust the disk up at Max's large physique. Max held the disk to his forehead and gazed skyward.
Max grinned. Pierre groaned, knowing full well that the Kreskin routine had to be completed before anything serious was discussed.
Max brought the disk to his mouth and blew on it so the disk holder bulged in the middle.
Max pulled out the disk and pretended to read it.
What do you call 1000 lawyers at the bottom of the ocean.
Pierre chuckled a half a chuck.
He wasn't in the mood, but then he had no love for lawyers. "Max!
Please." "Hey, just trying new material...." " . . .that's 5 years old.
Pierre interrupted. "All right already.
OK, let's have a look.
Max's lack of concern was understandable, but it annoyed Pierre all the same. "I don't know, that's what I'm asking you.
What kind of programs?" "Jeez, Pierre, I don't know.
Have you used them yet?" "No, not yet, someone just gave them to me.
Pier- re's nervousness betrayed him. "Well let's try one, see what it does.
Max typed in FILE93. That would run the program. A few seconds later the disk stopped and the computer returned to its natural state, that of the C:\.
That one didn't work. Let's try 92.
That's curious, it doesn't do anything either.
Looks like a bunch of crap to me.
What are they sup- posed to do?
Max shrugged his shoulders. Max kept trying a few more of the numbered programs.
Maybe it's just a joke." "Some joke, I don't get it.
Max punched a few more keys.
I wanna take me a look a closer look," Max said as he pulled the diskette from the machine. "Where are you going with that?" "To my lab.
I'll disassemble it and see what's what.
I'll call you later." At 4PM Max came flying through Pierre's office door again.
He put up one finger to indicate just a minute.
Pierre cut the reporter short on an obviously contrived weak excuse.
He promised to call back real soon.
He would call back. "Pierre, where did you get this?
What's on it?" he demanded. "Viruses.
Lots of 'em." "You mean it's sick?
Pierre was being genuine. "No you Frog idiot.
Computer viruses." "What is a computer virus?
A machine can't get sick." "How wrong you are ol' buddy.
You're in for a lesson now.
This was Max's turf. "Here goes.
If I lose you, just holler, ok, Amigo?
Pierre had grown to hate being called Amigo, but he had never asked Max to stop.
Besides, now wasn't the appropriate time to enlighten Max as to the ins and outs of nick name niceties.
Pierre nodded silent agreement. "Computers basically use two type of information.
One type of information is called data.
That's numbers, words, names on a list, a letter, accounting records whatever.
The second type are called programs, we tweaks call them executables.
The instructions contained in the executables operate on the data.
Everything else is a variation on a theme." "Yeah, so the computer needs a program to make it work.
What about these?" "I'm getting there.
There are several types of executa- bles, some are COM files, SYS and BAT files act like executables and so do some OVR and OVL files.
In IBM type computers that's about it.
Apples and MACs and others have similar situations, but these programs are for IBM's.
Now imagine a program, an executable which is designed to copy itself onto another program." "Yeah, so.
We essentially seam our- selves into the application." "Exactly, but dGraph is benign.
These," he holds up the disk- ette, "these are contaminated.
I only looked at a couple of them, disassembly takes a while.
Pierre, if only one of these programs were on your computer, 3 years from now, the entire contents of your hard disk would be destroyed in seconds!
It had never occurred to him that a program could be harmful. "That's 3 years from now?
I probably won't have the same programs on my computer then anyway.
There's always some- thing new." "It doesn't matter.
The viruses I looked at here copy themselves onto other programs and hide themselves.
They do nothing, noth- ing at all except copy themselves onto other programs.
In a few days every program on your computer, I mean every one would be infected, would be sick.
Every one would have the same flu if you wish.
And then, 3 years from now, any computer that was infected would destroy itself.
And, the virus itself would be destroyed as well.
Kind of like Jap kamikazes from World War II.
They know exactly when they will die and hope to take a lot of others with them.
In this case the virus commits suicide in 3 years.
Any data or program within spitting distance, so to speak, goes too." "So why doesn't someone go looking for viruses and come up with antidotes?" "It's not that simple.
A well written virus will disguise it- self.
The ones you gave me, at least the ones I disassembled not only hide themselves, but they are dormant until activation; in this case on a specific date.
Max continued the never ending education of Pierre.
Besides, it's been proven that there is no way to have a universal piece of software to detect viruses. Can't be done." "Whew . . .who comes up with this stuff?
Pierre was trying to grasp the importance of what he was hearing. "Used to be a UNIX type of practical joking; try writing a pro- gram that would annoy fellow programmers.
Pretty harmless fool- ing around.
No real damage, just embarrassment that called for a similar revenge.
It was a game of one upmanship within universi- ty computer science labs.
I saw a little of it while I worked at the school computer labs, but again it was harmless shenani- gans.
Where the hell did you get them?" Pierre was in a quandary.
Do I or don't I? He trusted Max implicitly, but what about the threat.
Naw, I can tell Max.
Anything. "Homosoto." "What?" asked Max incredulously. "Homosoto.
He gave it to me.
What for?" "He said that I was to put it on the dGraph disks that we sell." "He's crazy.
Do you know what would happen?
Max paced the floor as he spoke angrily.
We sell thousands of dGraph's every month.
And half of the computer companies ship dGraph with their machines.
In 3 years time we may have over a couple of million copies of dGraph in the field.
And who knows how many millions more programs would be infected, too.
Tens of millions of infected programs . . .my God!
Do you know how many machines would be destroyed . . . well maybe not all destroyed but it's about the same thing.
The effects would be devastating.
Max stopped to absorb what he was saying. "How bad could it be?
Once they're discovered, can't your vi- ruses be destroyed?
Pierre was curious about the newly discov- ered power. "Well, yes and no. A virus that is dormant for that long years is also called a Time Bomb and a Trojan Horse.
There would be no reason to suspect that a legitimate software company would be shipping a product that would damage computers.
The thought is absurd . . .it's madness.
Even if a few of the viruses accidentally go off prematurely, the virus de- stroys itself in the process.
Nobody would have clue until V-Day." "V-Day?" "Virus Day." "Max, what's in this for Homosoto?
What's the angle?" "Shit, I can't think of one.
If it ever got out that our pro- grams were infected it would be the end of DGI.
For you, me and DGI.
What exactly did Homosoto say?" Pierre was teetering between terror and disbelief.
How had he gotten into this position?
His mind wandered back over the last few years since he and Max had come up with the Engine.
Life has been real good.
Sure, I don't get much music in anymore, and I have kinda been seduced by the fast lane, but so what?
So, I take a little more credit than credit's due, but Max doesn't mind.
He really doesn't. The threat.
He tried to convince himself that his mind was playing tricks on itself.
But the intellectual exercises he performed at lightening speed, cranial neuro-syn- apses switching for all they were worth, did not permit Pierre the luxury of a respite of calm. "He said he wanted me to put this on dGraph programs.
There was no reason to speak of the threats.
No, no reason at all.
His vision became sudden- ly clear.
He was being boxed into a corner. "Well . . .?
Max's eyes widened as he expected a response from Pierre. "Well what?" "Well, what are you going to tell him?
Or, more like where are you going to tell him to go?
Fucking crazy, man." "Max, let me handle it. " Some quietude returned to Pierre.
A determination and resolve came from the confusion.
Yeah, I'll take care of it." "Mr. Homosoto, we need to speak.
Pierre showed none of the international politic that usually was second nature.
He called Homosoto at the San Jose Marriott later that afternoon. "Of course, Mr. Troubleaux.
I will see you shortly.
Homosoto hung up. Was that a Japanese yes for a yes, or a yes for a no?
Pierre wasn't sure, but he was sure that he knew how to handle Homoso- to.
I assume this con- cerns a matter of honor between two men.
Homosoto spoke in a monotone as he sat stiffly. "You're damned right it does.
Pierre picked up the diskette from his desk.
Pierre was in a rage.
If you think we're a bunch of pawns, to do your dirty little deeds, you have another thing coming." Unfazed, Homosoto rose slowly and started for the door. "Where do you think you're going?
Hey, I asked you where you're going?
I'm not finished with you yet.
I don't want the goddamned money.
We'll stay private and wait for someone honest to come along.
Pierre was speaking just as loudly with hand, arm and finger gestures.
While not all of the gestures were obscene, there was no doubt about their meaning. Homosoto spoke gently amidst Pierre's ranting.
I will give you some time to think about it.
With that, he left and shut the door in Pierre's bright red face. Three days later DGI stock would be officially unleashed upon the public.
Actually institutional buyers had already committed to vast amounts of it, leaving precious little for the small investor before driving the price up.
That morning Pierre was looking for Max.
They had a few last minute details to iron out for the upcoming press conferences.
They had to prepare two types of statements.
One if the stock purchase went as expected, sold out almost instantly at or above the offering price, and another to explain the financial bloodbath if the stock didn't sell.
Unlikely, but their media advisors forced them to learn both positions, just in case. His phone rang.
Fields was DGI's financial media consultant.
He worked for the underwriters and had a strong vested interest in the outcome.
He didn't sound like a happy camper. "Yes, Mike.
I'm so excited I could burst," Pierre pretended. "Yes, so am I, but we have a problem." Pierre immediately thought of Homosoto.
What kind of problem, Mike?
Pierre asked suspiciously. "Uh, Max, Pierre, it's Max." "What about Max?" "Pierre, Max is dead.
He died in a car crash last night.
I just found out a few minutes ago.
I gather you didn't know?" Of all the possible pieces of bad news that Mike Fields could have brought him, this was the farthest from his mind.
Why, he was with him till after 10 last night. "Max, dead?
This is some kind of joke, right?" "Pierre, I'm afraid I'm all too serious, unless CHiPs is in on it.
They found a car, pretty well burned up, at the bottom of a ravine on I280.
Looks like he went through a barrier and down the, well . . .I . . ." "I get the idea, Mike.
Pierre stuttered. "It was an accident, Pierre.
One of those dumb stupid accidents. He may have had a blow out, fallen asleep at the wheel, oh . . .it could be a million things.
I know what you guys meant to each other.
What you've been through . . ." "Mike, I have to go," Pierre whispered.
The tears were welling up in his eyes. "Wait, Pierre," Mike said gingerly.
Of course we're gonna put off the offering until . . ." "No. Don't.
He hung his head on his desk, shattered with conflicting emotions. He was nothing without Max.
Sure, he gave great image.
Knew how to do the schtick.
Suck up to the press, tell a few stories, stretch a few truths, all in the name of marketing, of course. But without Max, Max understood him.
You can't do this to me. His grief vacillated from anger to despair until the phone rang. He ignored the first 7 rings.
Maybe they would go away.
The caller persisted. "Yes," he breathed into the phone. "Mr. Troubleaux," it was Homosoto.
Just what he needed now. "What?" "I am most sorry about your esteemed friend, Max Jones.
Our sympathies are with you.
Is there anything I can do to help you in this time of personal grief.
Classic Japanese manners oozed over the phone wire. "Yeah.
Moral bankruptcy is a crime against nature, and you have been demonstrating an extreme talent for vivid androgynous self gratification.
Don't you agree Mr. Troubleaux?
The condescension dripped from Homosoto's words.
The previous empathy was gone as quickly as if a light had been extinguished. "Mr. Homosoto, the offering will still go through, tomorrow as scheduled.
I assume that meets with your approval?
The French can be so caustic.
It makes them excellent taxi cab drivers. "That is not the business to which I refer.
I mean business about honor.
I am sure you remember our last conversation." "Yes, I remember, and the answer is still no. No, no, no. I won't do it." "That is such a shame.
I hope you will not regret your decision.
There it was again, Pierre thought.
Another veiled threat. "Why should I?" "Simply, and to the point as you Americans like it, because it would be a terrible waste if the police obtained evidence you murdered your partner for profit." "Murdered?
What in hell's name are you talking about?
Crystal clear visions scorched across Pierre's mind; white hot fire spread through his cranium.
Do I make myself clear?" "You bastard.
Bastard," Pierre hissed into the phone.
Not only does Homosoto kill Max, but he arranges to have Pierre look like the guilty party.
What choice did he have.
At least now. There's no proof, is there?
The police reports are apparently not ready.
What could Homosoto do? "Fuck you all the way to Hell!
Pierre screamed at the phone in abject frustration and then slammed the receiver down so hard the impact resistant plastic cracked. At that same instant, Sheila Brandt, his secretary, carefully opened the door his door.
I am so sorry. What can I do?
She genuinely felt for him.
The two had been a great team, even if Pierre had become obsessed with himself.
Her drawn face with 40 years of intense sun worshiping was wracked with emotional distress. "Nothing Sheil.
Thanks though . . .what about the arrangements . . .?
Oh, I hate to do this, but your 9AM appointment is waiting.
Should I get rid of him?" "Who is it?
Something I really care about right now?" "I don't know.
Since when do I get involved in that?" "That's all I know.
Don't worry I'll have him come back next week . . ." she said thinking she had just relieved her boss of an unnecessary burden that could wait. "Sheil?
Send him in. Maybe it'll get my mind off of this." "If you're sure . . .
Scott nodded at her affirmatively.
Sure, Pierre, I'll send him in." An elegantly dressed man, perhaps a dash over six feet, of about 30 entered.
He walked with absolute confidence.
If this guy was applying for a job he was too well dressed for most of DGI.
He looked more like a tanned and rested Wall Street broker than a . . .well whatever he was.
The door closed behind him and he grasped Pierre's hand. "Good morning Mr. Troubleaux.
My name is Thomas Hastings.
Why don't we sit for moment.
Their hands released as they sat opposite each other in matching chairs.
Pierre sensed that Mr. Hastings was going to run the conversation.
I am a software engineer with 4 advanced degrees as well 2 PhD's from Caltech and Polytechnique in Paris.
There are 34 US patents either in my name alone or jointly along with over 200 copy- rights.
I have an MBA from Harvard and speak 6 languages fluently . . ." Pierre interrupted, "I am impressed with your credentials, and your clothes.
What may I do for you." "Oh dear, I guess you don't know.
I am Max Jones' replacement. Mr. Homosoto sent me.
May I have the diskette please?" * * * * * The financial section of the New York City Times included two pieces on the DGI offering.
One concerned the dollars and cents, and the was a related human interest story, with financial reper- cussions.
Max Jones, the co-founder of DGI, died in a car acci- dent 2 days before the company was to go public.
It would have earned him over $20 Million cash, with more to come. The article espoused the "such a shame for the company" tone on the loss of their technical wizard and co-founder.
It was a true loss to the industry, as much as if Bill Gates had died.
Max, though, was more the Buddy Holly of software, while Gates was the Art Garfunkle.
If they didn't take the hint, he behaved obnoxiously enough to convince anyone that his aversion to mornings should be taken seriously. Doug noticed that Scott had a purpose in arriving so early.
It must be those damned files.
The pile of documents that alleged America was as crooked as the Mafia.
Good leads, admittedly, but proving them was going to be a bitch.
Christ, Scott had been going at them with a vengeance.
Let him have some rope. Scott got down to business.
He first called Robert Henson, CEO of Perris, Miller and Stevenson.
Scott's credentials as a re- porter for the New York City Times got him past the secretary easily.
Henson took the call; it was part of the job. "Mr. Henson?
This is Scott Mason from the Times.
I would like to get a comment on the proposed Boston-Ellis merger.
Scott sounded officious. "Of course, Mr. Mason.
Robert Henson sounded accommodating. "We have the press releases and stock quotes.
They are most useful and I am sure that they will be used.
But I have other questions.
Scott hoped to mislead Henson into thinking he would ask the pat questions he was expected to ask. "Yes, thank you.
My staff is very well prepared, and we try to give the press adequate information.
However, the figures I have do not agree at all with those filed with the SEC. Would you care to comment?
Scott tried not to sound accusatory, but it was difficult not to play the adversary. Henson didn't try to conceal the cough he suddenly developed at the revelation.
Where," he choked, "where did you get that information?" "From a reliable source.
We are looking for a confirmation and a comment.
We know the data is correct.
Scott was playing his King, but he still held an Ace if he needed it. "I have no comment.
We have filed all required affidavits with the appropriate regulatory agencies.
If you need anything else, then I suggest you call them.
What computer figures?" "I have a set of printouts that show that the earnings figures for Second Boston are substantially below those stated in your filings.
Do you have a comment?
Scott stuck with the game plan. "I . . .uh . . .am not familiar . . .with . . .the . . .ah . . ." Henson hesitated and then decided to go on the offensive.
It's a trap," Henson affirmed. "Sir, thank you for your time.
Scott hung up after Henson repeatedly denied any improprieties. "This is Scott Mason for Senator Rickfield.
I am with the New York City Times.
Scott almost demanded a conversation with Washington's leading debunker of the Defense Department's over spending. "May I tell the Senator what this is in reference to?
The male secretary matter of factly asked. "Yes of course.
General Young and Credit Suisse." "Excuse me?" the young aide asked innocently. "That will do.
I need a comment before I go to print.
Scott commanded an assurance that the aide was not used to hearing from the press. "Wait one moment please," the aide said.
A few seconds of Muzak on hold bored Scott before Senator Merrill Rickfield picked up the call.
He was belligerent. "What the hell is this about?
The senator demanded. "Is that for the record?
Scott calmly asked. "Is what for the record?
Who the hell is this?
You can't intim- idate me.
I am a United States Senator.
The self assurance gave away nervousness. "I mean no disrespect, Senator.
I am working on an article about political compromise.
I have information that you and General Young, shall we say, have . . .an understanding.
As a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, you have helped pass legislation that gave you both what you wanted.
General Young got his weapons and you have a substantial bank account in Geneva.
Comments, Senator?" Rickfield was beside himself but was forced to maintain a formal composure.
You have made some serious accusations, slan- derous at least, criminal I suspect.
I hope you are prepared to back up these preposterous claims.
Scott heard desperation in the Senator's voice. "Yessir, I am. I go to print, with or without your comments," Scott lied.
The first person who spoke lost, so Scott busied himself with a crossword puzzle until Rickfield spoke. "If you publish these absurdities, I will sue you and your paper right into bankruptcy.
Do you copy?" "I copy , Senator.
Scott knew that would piss off Rickfield.
The line went dead. Scott made similar calls for a good part of the day, and he continued to be amazed. From call to call, the answers were the same.
How did you get that?
Where did you find out?
There's no way you could know that.
I was the only one who had access to that . . .
That was in my private files . . ." Blue Tower Nuclear Plant denied that Scott held internal memos instructing safety engineers to withhold critical flaws from the Nuclear Regulatory Committee.
General Autos denied using known faulty parts in Cruise Control mechanisms despite the fact that Scott held a copy of a SECRET internal memorandum.
Never the less, the CDC refused to comfirm that their files had been penetrated or any of the names on the list. Useless. Everyone he called gave him virtually the same story.
He needed that for the next time he got lawyered. When he presented his case to his editor, Scott's worst fears were confirmed.
Doug McGuire decided that a bigger story was in the making.
That's an order. Keep digging. "And while you're at it," Doug said with the pleasure of a father teasing his son, "follow this up, will you?
I need it by dead- line." Scott took the AP printout from Doug and read the item. "No," Scott gasped, "not another virus!
He threw the paper on his desk.
I'm up to my ass in . . ." "Viruses," Doug said firmly, but grinning. "Have a heart, these things are such bullshit." "Then say so.
But say something." **************************************************************** Chapter 7 Thursday, September 17 New York City Times Christopher Columbus Brings Disease to America By Scott Mason Here's a story I can't resist, regardless of the absurdity of the headline.
As for the last several years, that is the anticipated date for a highly viral computer virus to 'explode'.
The history behind the headline reads from an Ian Fleming novel. In late 1988, a group of West German hackers and computer pro- grammers thought it would be great fun to build their own comput- er virus.
As my regular readers recall, a computer virus is an unsolicited and unwanted computer program whose sole purpose is to wreak havoc in computers.
Either by destroying important files or otherwise damaging the system. We now know that that these Germans are part of an underground group known as CHAOS, an acronym for Computer Hackers Against Open Systems, whatever the heck that means.
They work to promote computer systems disruption worldwide. In March of 1989, Amsterdam, Holland, hosted an international conference of computer programmers.
Are you ready for the name? Intergalactic Hackers Conference.
Some members were aware of the planned virus.
As a result of the negative publicity hackers have gotten over the last few years, the Conference issued a statement disavowing the propagation and creation of computer viruses.
All very honorable by a group of people whose sole purpose in life is to invade the privacy of others.
But, that's what they said. Somewhere, somehow, something went wrong, and the CHAOS virus got released at the Intergalactic Hackers meetings.
The Columbus Day Virus is called by its creators, the "Data Crime Virus", a name befitting its purpose. When it strikes, it announces itself to the computer user, and by that time, it's too late.
Your computer is kaput! What makes this particular computer virus any more tantalizing than the hundred or so that have preceded it?
The publicity the media has given it, each and every year since 1989. The Data Crime, aka Columbus Day Virus has, for some inescapable reason attracted the attention of CNN, ABC, CBS, NBC and hundreds of newspapers including this one.
Sam Moscovitz of Computer Nook in Dallas, Texas commented, "I have never seen a virus in 20 years.
I've heard about them but really think they are a figment of the media's imagination." Virus Busters are people or firms who specialize in fighting alleged computer viruses by creating and selling so-called anti- dotes.
Virus Busting Sean McCullough, President of The Virus Institute in San Jose, California thinks that most viruses are harmless and users and companies overreact.
There have been no more that a few dozen viral outbreaks in the last few years. They spread more by rumor than by infection.
When asked how he made his living, he responded, "I sell antidotes to computer viruses.
Does he make a good living?
I can't keep up with the demand," he insists. The Federal Government, though, seems concerned, and maybe for good reason.
On October 13, another NASA space shuttle launch is planned.
Friday the 13th is another date that computer virus makers use as the intended date of destruction.
According to an official spokesman, NASA has called in computer security experts to make sure that their systems are " . . .clean and free from infection.
It's a purely precautionary move, we are not worried. The launch will continue as planned." Viruses.
Most people believe they are real, and dangerous, but that chances of infection are low.
As one highly respected computer specialist put it, "The Columbus Day Virus is a low risk high consequence possibility.
I don't recommend any panic.
Does he protect his own computer agaist viruses?
I can't risk losing my computers." Can anybody?
It was a 32 minute ride into the City on good days and over 2 hours when the feder- ally subsidized rail service was under Congressional scrutiny. The ritual was simple.
He fell into his old Porsche 911, an upscale version of a station car, and drove the 2 miles to the Scarsdale train station.
He bought a large styrofoam cup full of decent black coffee and 3 morning papers from the blind newsman before boarding the express train.
Non-stop to Harlem, and then on to 42nd St. and Park Avenue and wake up time. Tyrone Duncan followed a similar routine.
Except he drove his silver BMW 850i to the station.
The FBI provided him with a perfectly good Ford Fairlane with 78,000 miles on it when he needed a car in New York.
He was one of the few black commuters from the affluent bedroom community and his size made him more conspicuous than his color. Scott and Tyrone were train buddies.
Train buddies are perhaps unique in the commuterdom of the New York suburbs.
Every morning you see the same group of drowsy, hung over executives on their way to the Big Apple.
The morning commute is a personal solace for many.
Your train buddy knows if you got laid and by whom. If you tripped over your kids toys in the driveway, your train buddy knew.
If work was a bitch, he knew before the wife.
Maggie Mason and Arlene Duncan were opoosites; Maggie, a giggly, spacey and spontaneous girl of 24 and Arlene, the dedicated wife of a civil servant and mother of three daugh- ters who were going to toe the line, by God.
Scott, small and wiry was 10 years Ty's junior.
His glowing skull, more dark brown than ebony, with fringes of graying short hair emphasized the usually jovial face that was described as a cross between rolly-polly and bulbous.
A lesson in how to make friends and influence people." "Oh, this?
Scott looked down at the words on his chest: I'm O.K. You're A Shithead. "It only offends them that oughta be offended." "Shitheads?" "Shitheads." "Gotcha," Ty said sarcastically.
Right." "My mother," groused Scott.
Ty didn't under- stand. "I gave my mom a VCR last Christmas," Scott continued.
She ooh'd and ah'd and I thought great, I got her a decent present.
Well, a couple of weeks later I went over to her place and I asked how she liked the VCR.
She didn't answer, so I asked again and she mumbled that she hadn't used it yet.
I fell down," Scott laughed out loud. "'Why?
I asked her and she said she wanted to get used to it sitting next to her TV for a couple of months before she used it.
Tyrone caught a case of Scott's roaring laughter. "Wheeee!" exclaimed Tyrone.
And you an engineer?" "Hey," Scott settled down, "my mom calls 911 to change a light- bulb.
They laughed until Scott could speak.
They don't believe it works." "It's a lot of fun actually," Scott said fondly.
It tests my ability to reduce things to the basics.
Trying to teach a seventy year old widower about digital is like trying to get a square ball bearing to roll." Even so, Scott looked forward to those evenings with his mom.
He couldn't imagine it, the inability to understand the simplicity of either 'on' or 'off'.
And after he left, she repro- grammed it for her tastes only to erase it again before his next visit.
If he had ever discovered her ruse it would have ruined her little game and the ritual starting point for their private talks. "By the way," Scott said to Tyrone.
What are you and Arlene doing Sunday night?" "Sunday?
Tyrone asked innocently. "My mom is having a little get together and she'd love the two of you . . ." "Is this another one of her seances?
Tyrone asked pointedly. "Well, not in so many words, but it's always possible . . ." "Forget it.
Not after what happened last time.
I don't think I could get Arlene within 20 miles of your mother.
She scared the living shit out of her . . .and I have my doubts." "Relax," Scott said calmly.
It's just her way of keeping busy. Some people play bingo, others play bridge . . ." "And your mother shakes the rafters trying to raise her husband from the dead," said Scott with exaperation.
I don't care what you say, that's not normal.
I like your mother, but, well, Arlene has put her foot down.
Tyrone shuddered at the thought of that evening.
No one could explain how the wooden shutters blew open or the table wobbled.
Tyrone preferred, just as his wife did, to pretend it never happened. "Hey," Tyrone said with his head back behind the newspaper.
I see you're making a name for yourself elsewhere, too." "What do you mean?
Scott asked. "Don't give me that innocent shit.
I'm a trained professional," Tyrone joked.
He held up the New York City Times turned to Scott's Christopher Columbus article.
Your computer crime pieces have been raising a few eyebrows down at the office.
Seems you have better sources than we do.
Our Computer Fraud division has been going nuts recently." "Glad you can read.
Just a job, but I gotta story much more interesting.
I can't publish it yet, though." "Why?" "Damn lawyers want us to have our facts straight.
Can you be- lieve it?
Besides, blackmail is so, so personal." Tyrone stopped in mid-sip of his hot coffee.
What blackmail?" The frozen visage caught Scott off guard.
They rarely spoke of their respective jobs in any detail, preferring to remain at a measured professional distance.
The years of dedication invested in their friendship, even after to everyones' surprise, Maggie up and left for California were not to be put in jeoprady unneces- sarily.
Thus far their interests had not sufficiently overlapped to be of concern. "It's a story, that, well, doesn't have enough to go into print, but, it's there, I know it.
Scott wanted to talk. "Mums the word." "A few days ago I received some revealing documents papers on a certain company.
I can't say which one.
He looked at Tyrone for approval. "Whatever," Tyrone urged anxiously. Scott told Tyrone about his nameless and faceless donor and what Higgins had said about the McMillan situation and the legality of the apparently purloined information.
Tyrone listened in fasci- nation as Scott outline a few inner sanctum secrets to which he was privy. Tyrone got a shiver up his spine.
He tried to disguise it. "Can I ask you a question?
Go for it." "Was one of the companies Amalgamated General?" Scott shot Tyrone a look they belied the answer. "How did you know?
Scott asked suspiciously. "And would another be First Federated or State National Bank?" Tyrone tried to subdue his concern.
All he needed was the press on this. Scott could not hide his surprise.
And a bunch of others. How'd you know?" Tyrone retreated back into his professional FBI persona.
Scott's reporter mindset replaced that of the lazy commuter. "Nothing, just a coincidence.
Tyrone picked up a newspaper and buried his face behind it. "Hey, Ty.
Talk ol' buddy." "I can't and you know it.
Tyrone sounded adamant. "As a friend?
I'll buy you a lollipop?
You know the rules, I can't talk about a case in progress." "So there is a case?
Scott probed. "I didn't say that there was a case," Ty countered. "Yes you did.
Case in progress were your words, not mine.
C'mon what's up?" "Shit, you media types.
Tyrone gave himself a few seconds to think.
I'll never know why you became a reporter.
You used to be a much nicer pain in the ass before you became so nosy." Scott sat silently, enjoying Ty's awkwardness. Tyrone hated to compromise the sanctity of his position, but he realized that he, too, needed some help.
Since he hadn't read any of this in the papers, there had to be journalistic responsi- bility from both Scott and the paper.
Off, off, off the record. Clear?
He was serious. "Done." The train rumbled into the tunnel at the Northern tip of Manhat- tan.
They had to raise their voices to hear each other, but that meant they couldn't be heard either. "As near as I can tell," Tyrone hesitantly began.
There's a well coordinated nationwide blackmail operation in progress.
As of yesterday, we have received almost a hundred cases of alleged blackmail.
From Oshkosh, Baton Rouge, New York, Miami, Atlanta, Chicago, LA, the works.
Small towns to the metros.
It's an epidemic and the local and state cops are absolutely buried. They can't handle it, and besides it's way out of their league. So who do they all call?
There's no way we can handle this many cases at once.
Washing- ton's going berserk." "Who's behind it?
Scott asked knowing he wouldn't get a real answer. "That's the rub.
There's no pattern, none at all.
We assumed it was organized crime, but our informants say they're baffled.
Not the mob, they swear.
They knew about it before we did.
Tyrone's voice echoed a professional frustration. "Motives?" "None.
We're stuck." "Sounds like we're both on the same hunt." The train slowed to a crawl and then a hesitant stop at Grand Central.
Thousands of commuters lunged at the doors to make their escape to the streets of New York above them.
Scott won- dered if any of them were part of Duncan's problems. "Scott?
Tyrone queried on the escalator. "Yeah?" "Not a word, ok?" Scott held up his right hand with three fingers.
That was good enough for Tyrone. They walked up the stairs and past a newsstand that caught both of their eyes instantly.
They're going to make a weekly event of printing every innuendo." "They have the papers, too," muttered Scott.
Scott put down the paper. "This makes it a brand new ball game . . ." "Just what I need," Tyrone said with disgust. "That's the answer," exclaimed Scott.
Who's been affected so far?" "That's the mystery.
No one seems to have been affected.
Tyrone demanded loud enough to attract attention. "What's the answer?" he whispered up close. "It's you.
Scott noted. Tyrone expressed surprise.
What do you mean, me." "I mean, it seems that the FBI has been affected more than anyone else.
You said you're overloaded, and that you can't pay atten- tion to other crimes." "You're jumping to conclusions.
Tyrone didn't follow Scott's reasoning and cocked his head quizzically. "What if the entire aim of the blackmail was to so overwork the FBI, so overload it with useless cases, and that the perpetrators really have other crimes in mind.
Maybe they have already hit their real targets.
Isn't it possible that the FBI is an unwill- ing dupe, a decoy in a much larger scheme that isn't obvious yet?
Scott liked the sound of his thinking and he saw that Tyrone wasn't buying his argument. "It's possible, I guess . . .but . . .
Tyrone didn't have the words to finish his foggy thoughts.
It was too far left field for his linear thinking.
No this is crazy as the time you though that UFO's were invading Westchester in '85.
As I see it," Scott continued, "the only victim is the FBI.
None of the alleged victims have been harmed, other than ego and their paranoia levels.
Maybe the FBI was the target all along.
Scott suggested, "it's as good a theory as any other." "With what goal?
The building had no personality, no character, nothing memorable about it, and that was exactly the way the tenants wanted it. The 23 story building extended 6 full floors below the congested streets of Lower Manhattan.
Eavesdropping was impos- sible, almost, and operational privacy was guaranteed.
Personal privacy was another matter, though.
Most of the office staff worked out in an open office floorplan.
The walls between the guard stations and banks of elevators consisted solely of bullet- proof floor to ceiling triple pane glass.
Unnerving at first, no privacy. There was a self-imposed class structure between the "bugs", those who worked in the subterranean chambers and the "air-heads" who worked where the daylight shone.
There was near total sepa- ration between the two groups out of necessity; maintain isola- tion between those with differing need-to-know criteria.
The most visible form of self-imposed isolation, and unintended competitiveness was that each camp spent Happy Hour at different bars.
It was Washington, Bob Burnsen, his Washington based superior and family friend for years. "No, really.
Bob, we've been through this before.
It's all very flattering, but no. I'm afraid not.
We've been through this all . . .
He was being cut off by his boss, so he shut up and listened. "Bob . . .Bob . . .Bob," Tyrone was laughing as he tried to interrupt the other end of the conversation.
OK, I'll give it some more thought, but don't get your hopes up.
It's just not in my cards.
He listened again. "Bob, I'll speak to Arlene again, but she feels the same way I do.
We're both quite content and frankly, I don't need the headaches.
He looked around the room as he cocked the earpiece away from his head.
He was hearing the same argument again. "Bob, I said I would.
I'll call you next week.
If you don't hear from me, you'll call me.
Goodbye." He hung up the phone in disbelief.
They just won't leave me alone.
He clasped his hands in mock prayer at the ceiling. * * * * * Tyrone Duncan joined the FBI in 1968, immediately after graduat- ing cum laude from Harvard Law.
Statistically the odds were against him ever being accepted into the elite National Police Force.
The virtually autonomous empire that J.
Edgar Hoover had created over 60 years and 12 presidents ago was very selective about whom it admitted.
Tyrone Duncan was black. His distinguished pre-law training had him prepared to follow into his father's footsteps, as a partner with one of Boston's most prestigious law firms.
Tyrone was a member of one of the very few rich and influential black families in the North East. His family was labeled "Liberal" when one wasn't ashamed of the moniker. Then came Selma.
At 19, he participated in several of the marches in the South and it was then that he first hand saw prejudice.
But it was more than prejudice, though.
It was hate, it was ignorance and fear.
Fueled by the oppressive heat and humidity, decades of racial conflict, several 'Jew Boy Nigger Lovers' were killed that summer in Alabama.
The murder of the civil rights workers made front page news.
They were to solve the crime because the murderers had violated the victims' civil rights. Tyrone thought that that approach was real slick, a nice legal side step to get what you want.
He was over 100 pounds lighter than his current weight.
His background check was unassailable except for his family's prominent liberal bent.
He had every basic qualification needed to become an FBI Agent.
He was turned down. Thurman Duncan, his prominent lawyer father was beside himself, blaming it on Hoover personally.
But Tyrone decided to 'investi- gate' and determine who or what was pulling the strings.
He called FBI personnel and asked why he had been rejected.
They mumbled something about 'experience base' and 'fitting the mold'. That was when he realized that he was turned down solely because he was black.
Tyrone was not about to let a racial issue stand in his way. He located a couple of the agents with whom he had worked during the last summer.
Amazing, Tyrone thought, the resemblance to Hoov- er.
The four letters of recommendation, which read more like votes for sainthood were a little overdone, but, they were on FBI stationary.
Tyrone asked the Personnel Director if they would reconsider his application, and that if necessary, he would whitewash his skin. The following day Tyrone received a call.
Oh, it was a big mix- up.
We misfiled someone else's charts in your files and, well, you understand, I'm sure.
It happens all the time.
We're sorry for any inconvenience.
Would you be available to come in on Monday?
Welcome to the FBI. Tyrone paid his dues early.
Got shot at some, chased long haired left wing hippie radicals who blew up gas stations in 17 states for some unfathomable reason, and then of course, he collected dirt on imaginary enemies to feed the Hoover Nixon paranoia.
He tried, fairly successfully to stay away from that last kind of work.
Ah, but that was politics. Three weeks after J.
Edgar Hoover died, Tyrone Duncan was promot- ed to Section Chief in the New York City office.
This was his first promotion in 8 years at the bureau. It was one that leaped over 4 intermediate levels.
The Hoover era was gone. After hanging up the phone with Bob Bernsen, Tyrone sat behind his desk going over his morning reports.
No planes hijacked, no new counterfeiting rings and nary a kidnapping.
What dogged him though was the flurry of blackmail and extortion claims.
He re- read the digested version put out by Washington headquarters that was faxed to him in the early hours, ready for his A.M. perusal. The apparent facts confounded his years of experience.
Over 100 people, many of them highly placed leaders of American industry had called their respective regional FBI offices for help.
A call into the FBI is handled in a procedural manner.
The agent who takes the call can identify the source of the call with a readout on his special phone; a service that the FBI had had for years but was only recently becoming available to the public.
Thus, if the caller had significant information, but refused to identify himself, the agent had a reliable method to track down the call- er.
Very few people who called the FBI realized that a phone inquiry to an FBI office triggered a sequence of automatic events that was complete before the call was over. The phone call was of course monitored and taped.
And the phone number of the caller was logged in the computer and displayed to the agent.
Then the number was crosschecked against files from the phone company.
What was the exact location of the caller? To whom was the phone registered?
Criminal activities, bad credit records; the type of data that would permit the agent to gauge the validity of the call.
Top American businessmen who, while not beyond the reach of the law, were from the FBI's view, upstanding citizens.
Not pristine, but certainly not mad men with a record of making outlandish capricious claims.
It was not in their interest to bring attention to themselves. What puzzled Tyrone, and Washington, was the sudden influx of such calls.
Normally the Bureau handles a handful of diversified cases of blackmail, and a very small percentage of those pan out into legitimate and solvable cases.
Generally, veiled vague threats do not materialize into prosecutable cases.
Tyrone Duncan sat back thoughtfully. What is the common element here?
Why today, and not a year ago or on April Fools Day?
Do these guys all play golf together?
Not likely, but a remote possibility.
What enemies have they made?
Undoubtedly they haven't befriended everyone with whom they have had contact, but what's the connection?
Tyrone's mind reeled through a maze of unlikelihoods.
Until, the only common element he could think of stared at him right in the face.
There was a single dimension of commonality between all of the callers.
They had, to a company, to a man, all dealt with the same organization for years.
Government. The thought alone caused a spasm to his system.
His body liter- ally leapt from his chair for a split second as he caught his breath.
I must be missing something, surely.
Doesn't the IRS have records on everyone?
Then the ultimate paranoid thought hit him square in the cerebellum.
His boss says, 'I got a congressional hearing today, I'm too busy.
Do some re- search and let me see a report.' So this overzealous tax collector prowls around other government computers and determines that the companies on his hit list aren't necessarily functioning on the up and up.
And he says, 'we'll call you back soon, real soon, so get your ducks in a row' and that scares the shit out of the corporate muckity- mucks. Tyrone smiled to himself.
Absurd, he admitted, but it was the only one he could say fit the facts. Still, is it possible?
The government was certainly capable of some pretty bizarre things.
And the Democrats were in 1972 targets of CREEP, the Committee to Re-Elect the President.
And the Aquarius project used psychics to locate Soviet Boomers and UFO's.
Didn't we give LSD to unsuspecting soldiers to see if they could function adequately under the influence?
The horror stories swirled through his mind.
And they became more and more unbelievable, yet they were all true.
The United States government had actually instituted a program of anonymous blackmail in order to increase tax revenues.
Christ, I hope I'm wrong.
But, I'm probably not. The buzzer on the intercom of his phone jarred Tyrone from his daydream speculations. "Yes?
He answered into space. "Mr. Duncan, a Franklin Dobbs is here for his 10 o'clock appoint- ment.
Saunderson is out and so you're elected.
Duncan's secre- tary was too damned efficient, he thought.
Why not give it to someone else.
He pushed his intercom button. "Gimme a second, I gotta primp.
That was Tyrone's code that he needed a few minutes to graduate from speculative forensics and return to Earth to deal with real life problems.
As usual, Gloria obliged him.
In exactly 3 minutes, his door opened. "Mr. Duncan, this is Franklin Dobbs, Chairman and CEO of National Pulp.
Mr. Dobbs, Mr. Duncan, regional director.
She waited for the two men to acknowledge each other before she shut the door behind her. "Mr. Duncan?
Dobbs held his hand out to the huge FBI agent. Duncan accepted and pointed at a vacant chair.
Dobbs sat obedi- ently. "How can I help you, Mr. Dobbs?" "I am being blackmailed, and I need help.
Dobbs looked straight into Duncan's coal black eyes. The IRS, thought Duncan.
By whom?" he asked casually. "I don't know.
Dobbs was firm. "Then how do you know you are being blackmailed?
Duncan wanted to conceal his interest.
Keep it low profile. "Let me tell you what happened." Good start, thought Duncan.
If only half of us would start in such a logical place. "Two days ago I received a package by messenger.
It contained the most sensitive information my company has.
Strategic posi- tions, contingency plans, competitive information and so on. There are only a half dozen people in my company that have access to that kind of information.
And they all own enough stock to make sure that they aren't the culprits." "So who is?" interjected Tyrone as he made notes. "I don't know.
That's the problem." "What did they ask for?
Duncan looked directly into Dobbs' eyes.
To both force an answer and look for signs of deceit.
All he saw was honesty and real fear. "Nothing.
All I got was the package and a brief message." "What was the message?
Tyrone asked. "We'll be in touch.
That's it." "So where's the threat?
This hardly seems like a case for the FBI.
Tyrone was baiting the hook.
See if the fish is real. "None, not yet.
But that's not the point.
What they sent me were copies, yet they looked more like the originals, of informa- tion that would negatively affect my company.
It's the sort of information that we would not want made public.
If you know what I mean." Tyrone thought, you bet I know.
You're up to and you want us to protect you.
I know what you mean," he agreed. "I need to stop it.
Before it's too late?" "Too late?" asked Duncan. "Too late.
Before it gets out." "What gets out, Mr. Dobbs?
Duncan stared right into and beyond Dobbs' eyes. "Secrets.
Dobbs paused to recompose himself. "Isn't there a law . . .?" "Yes, there is Mr. Dobbs.
And if what you say is true, you are entitled to protection.
Duncan decided to bait Dobbs a bit more. "Even if the information is illegal in nature.
Wait for the fish to bite. "I grant you I'm no Mother Teresa.
I'm a businessman, and I have to make money for my investors.
But in the files that I received were exact copies of my personal files that no one, and I mean no one has access to.
They were my own notes, ideas in progress. Nothing concrete, just work in progress.
But someone, somehow has gotten a hold of it all.
And, by my thinking, there's no way to have gotten it without first killing me, and I'm here.
So how did they get it?
That's what I need to know.
Dobbs paused. "And then, I need to stop them.
His soliloquy was over. "Who else is affected?
The question made Dobbs pause too obviously.
Dobbs wasn't alone. "I only speak for myself.
Dobbs rose from the chair.
There's not a damned thing you can do.
Avenue. According to hospital officials, the Meditrix Life Support Moni- tors attached to many of the hospital's patients were accidental- ly disconnected from the nurses stations and the hospital's main computer.
Doctors and nurses were unaware of any malfunction because all systems appeared to operating correctly. The LSM's are connected to a hospital wide computer network that connects all hospital functions in a central computer.
Much of the day to day treatment of patients is done with the LSM continually measuring the condition of patient, and automatically updating his records.
Doctors estimate that over 50%, about 300, of the hospital's patients received incorrect treatment. Of those 14 died and another 28 are in critical condition. Until this weekend, the systems were considered foolproof.
They have called for a full investigation into the episode. No group or individuals have yet taken credit for the crime.
It was the roughest plane ride he had ever taken; and after 2 weeks of pure bliss.
He was provided with a private beach house containing every modern amenity one could want.
Including two housekeepers and a cook.
Only one of the housekeepers knew how to keep house. The other knew how to keep Miles satisfied. Marasee was a Pacific Islander who was well schooled in advanced sexual techniques.
At barely 5 feet tall and 96 pounds, her long silken black hair was as much as sexual tool as her hands and mouth.
She caressed his shoul- ders and upper body as she spoke.
He knows that a man works best when he has no worries.
It is my job to make sure that you are relaxed.
Do you understand?" Her eyes longed for an affirmative answer from Miles.
At first he was somewhat baffled.
Homosoto had indeed sent him on this trip, vacation, to work, undisturbed.
But Miles thought that he would have to fend for himself for his physical pleasures.
He was used to finding ways to satisfy his needs. "Homosoto-San says that you must be relaxed to do very serious business.
Whenever you need relaxation, I am here." The food was as exquisite as was Marasee.
He luxuriated in the eternally perfect weather, the beach, the waves and he even ventured under water on a novice scuba dive.
He found that his mind was at a creative high.
His mind propelled through the problems of the war plans, and the solutions appeared.
His brain seemed to function independent of effort.
As he established goals, the roads to meet them appeared magically before him, in absolute clarity.
He was free to explore each one in its entirety, from beginning to end, undisturbed. If a problem confounded him, he found that merely forgetting about it during an interlude with Marasee provided him with the answer.
He could envision, all at once, the entire grand strate- gy; how the myriad pieces effortlessly fit together and evolved into a picture perfect puzzle.
Miles became able to manipulate the attack scenarios in his mind and make slight changes in one that would have far reaching implications in another portion of the puzzle.
He might change only one slight aspect, yet see synergistic ramifications down a side road.
This new ability, gained from total freedom to concentrate and his newfound worry free life, gave Miles new sources of pleasure and inspiration. As his plans came together, Miles yearned for something outside of his idyllic environment.
His strategies grew into a concrete reality, one which he knew he could execute, if Homosoto wasn't feeding him a line of shit.
If he was right, of which he was sure, in a few short years he would be recognized as the most brilliant computer scientist in the world.
In the whole damn world. His inner peace, the one which fed his creativity, soon was overtaken by the unbridled ego which was Miles Foster's inner self.
The prospect of success fostered new energies and Miles worked even harder to complete the first phase of his task.
To the occasional disappointment of Marasee, Miles would embroil himself in the computer Homosoto provided for the purpose. Marasee had been with many men, she was an expert, but Miles gave her as much pleasure as she to him.
Homosoto-San is anxious to see you.
A short Japanese manservant escorted Miles to the doors of Homosoto's office.
I assume everything was satisfactory?
You found the working conditions to your liking?
Homosoto awkwardly searched for the vain compliment. He pointed at the leather seating area in which they had first discussed their plans.
It was a profitable game worth playing.
Very much so, Mr. Homosoto.
It was most relaxing . . .and I think you will be very pleased with the results.
Miles smiled warmly, expecting to be heavily complimented on his promise.
Instead, Homosoto ignored the business issue. "I understand that Miss Marasee was most pleased . . .was she not?
For the first time, Miles saw a glimmer of a dirty old man looking for the sordid details. "I guess so.
I was too busy working to pay attention.
Miles tried to sluff off the comment. "That is what she says.
That you were too busy for her . . .or to say goodbye and thank her for her attentions.
Not an auspi- cious beginning Mr. Foster.
Miles caught the derision in Homo- soto's voice and didn't appreciate it one little bit. "Listen.
My affairs are my affairs.
I am grateful for the services, but I do like to keep my personal life just that.
Miles was polite, but firm.
Homosoto nodded in under- standing. "Of course, Mr. Foster, I understand completely.
It is merely for the sake of the young woman that I mention it.
There is no offense intended.
It is shall we say . . .a cultural difference?" Miles didn't believe in the cultural difference to which he referred, but he didn't press the point.
He merely nodded that the subject was closed.
A pregnant pause followed before Homo- soto interrupted the silence. "So, Mr. Foster.
I really did not expect to see you for another few weeks.
I must assume that you have made some progress in planning our future endeavors.
Homosoto wore a smile that belied little of his true thoughts. "You bet your ass, I did.
Homosoto winced at the colorful language.
It was Miles' way of maintaining some control over the situation.
His dimples recessed even further as he enjoyed watching Homosoto's reaction.
It turned out to be simpler than even I had thought." "Would you be so kind as to elaborate?" "Gotcha.
Miles opened his briefcase and brought out a sheath of papers with charts and scribbles all over them.
Basically the technology is pretty simple.
Here are the fundamental systems to use in the attack, there are only four of them.
After all, there are no defenses, so that's not a problem." "Problem?
Homosoto raised his eyes. "Ok, not problem.
As you can see here, putting the technical pieces together is not the issue.
The real issue is creating an effective deployment of the tools we create.
Miles was matter of fact and for the first time Homosoto saw Miles as the itiner- ant professional he was capable of being.
Just as Miles promised earlier, 'give me a challenge, the new, the undone and I will be the best.
Miles was shining in his own excel- lence, and his ego was gone, totally gone.
His expertise took over. "I have labeled various groups that we will need to pull this off." "Pull off?
Excuse me . . ." "Oh, sorry.
Have it happen?" "Ah yes, So sorry." "Not at all.
Miles looked at Homosoto carefully.
Was there a mutual respect actually developing? "As I said, we will have to have several groups who don't even know about each other's existence.
At NSA we call it contain- ment, or need to know." Homosoto cursorily examined the printouts on the table in front of him, but preferred to address Miles' comments.
I don't see how one can build a car if you don't know what it's going to look like when you're done.
You suggest that each person or group functions without the knowledge of the others?
How can this be efficient?" Miles smiled.
For the first time he felt a bit of compassion for Homosoto, as one would feel for the naive child asking why 1 plus 1 equals 2.
Homosoto was used to the Japanese work ethic: Here's a beautiful picture of a car, and all 50,000 of us are going to build it; you 5,000 build the engines, you 5,000 build the body and so on.
After a couple of years we'll have built a fabulous automobile that we have all shared as a common vision. Homosoto had no idea of how to wage a war, although he apparently afford it.
As we said in World War II, loose lips sink ships." Homosoto immediately bristled at the mention of the war.
Miles hardly noticed as he continued.
The point is, as I have it laid out here, only a handful of people need to know what we are trying to achieve.
All of the rest have clearly defined duties that they are expected to perform as we ask.
Each effectively works in a vacuum.
I imagine you would like to keep this operation as secret as possi- ble." Homosoto took immediate notice and bolted his response.
Of course, secrecy is important, but how can we be sure of compli- ance by our . . .associates?" "Let me continue.
Miles referred back to the papers in front of him.
The first group is called the readers, the second will be dedicated to research and development.
Homosoto smiled at the R&D reference.
Then there will be a public relations group, a communications group, a software compa- ny will be needed, another group I call the Mosquitoes and a little manufacturing which I assume you can handle.
Miles looked for Homosoto's reaction. "Manufacturing, very easy.
I don't fully understand the others, but I am most impressed with your outline.
Homosoto had become a different person. One who showed adolescent enthusiasm.
He moved to the edge of his seat. "As with any well designed plan," Miles boasted, "there are certain situations that need to be addressed.
In this case, I see several.
Miles was trying to hook Homosoto onto the prover- bial deck. "I asked for problem.
Homosoto insisted. "To properly effect this plan we will need two things that may make it impossible." Homosoto met the challenge.
What do you need?" Miles liked the sound of it.
This operation could cost as much as $50 million.
Is that a problem?" Homosoto looked squarely at Miles.
What is the second thing you need?" "We will need an army.
Not an army with guns, but a lot of people who will follow orders.
That may be more important than the money." Homosoto took a momentary repose while he thought.
How big an army will you need?" "My guess?
I would say that for all groups we will need a minimum of 500 people.
Maybe as many as a thousand." Homosoto suddenly laughed out loud.
You call that an army? 1000 men?
That is a picnic my friend.
Homosoto was enjoying his own personal joke.
When you said army, Mr. Foster I imagined tens of thousands of people running all around the United States shooting their guns.
I can give you a thousand dedicated people with a single phone call.
Is that all you need?
He continued his laughter. Miles was taken aback and had difficulty hiding his surprise.
He had already padded his needs by a factor of three.
With a few minor specialties and exceptions, yes.
If we follow this blue print.
He pointed at the papers spread before them. Homosoto sat back and closed his eyes in apparent meditation. Miles watched and waited for several minutes.
He looked out the expanse of windows over Tokyo patiently as Homosoto seemed to sleep in the chair across from him.
Homosoto spoke quietly with his eyes still closed. "Mr. Foster?" "Yes?
Miles was ready. "Do you love you country?
Homosoto's eyelids were still. Miles had not expected such a question. "Mr. Foster?
Did you hear the question?" "Yes, I did.
I'm thinking." "If you need to think, sir, then the answer is clear.
As you have told me, you hold no allegiance.
Your country means nothing to you." "I wouldn't quite put it that way . . .
Miles said defensively. He couldn't let this opportunity escape. "You hold your personal comfort as your primary concern, do you not?
You want the luxuries that the United States offers, but you don't care where or how you get them?
You want your women, your wine, your freedom, but you will take it at any expense.
I do not think I exaggerate.
Tell me Mr. Foster, if I am wrong." Miles realized he was being asked to state his personal alle- giances in mere seconds.
Not since he was in the lower floors of the NSA being interrogated had he been asked to state his convic- tions.
He knew the right answer there, but here, he wasn't quite sure.
The wrong answer could blow it.
But, then again, he was $110,000 ahead of the game for a few weeks work. "I need to ask you a question to answer yours.
Miles did not want to be backed into a corner.
Do you want me to have allegiance to my country or to you?" Homosoto was pleased.
You debate well, young man.
It is not so much that I care if you love America.
I want, I need to know what you do love.
You see, for me, I love Japan and my family.
But much of my family was taken from me in one terrible instant, a long time ago.
They are gone, but now I have my wife, my chil- dren and their children.
I learned, that if there is nothing else, you must have family.
That must come first, Mr. Foster. Under all conditions, family is first.
So my allegiance shifted, away from country, to my family and my be- liefs.
I don't always agree with my government, and there are times I will defy their will.
I can assure you, that if we embark upon this route, neither I nor you will endear ourselves to our respective governments.
Does that matter to you?" Miles snickered.
After what they did to me?
Let me tell you something.
I gave my country most of my adult life.
I could have gone to work with my family . . .my associates . . ." "I am aware of your background Mr. Foster," Homosoto interrupted. "I'm sure you are.
But that's neither here nor there.
I could have been on easy street.
Plug a few numbers and make some bucks for the clan.
The colloquialism escaped Homosoto, but he got the gist of it.
But I said to myself, 'hey, you're good. Fixing roulette wheels is beneath you.
I needed, I still need the diversion, the challenge, so I figured that the Feds would give me the edge I needed to make something of myself.
Miles was turning red around his neck. "The NSA had the gear, the toys for me to play with, and they promised me the world.
Create, they said, lead America's tech- nology into the 21st. century.
What a pile of shit.
Working at the NSA is like running for President.
You're always trying to sell yourself, your ideas.
They don't give a shit about how good your ideas are.
All they care is that you're asshole buddies with the powers that be.
To get something done there, you need a half dozen committees with their asses greased from here to eternity for them to say maybe.
Do you know the difference between ass kissing and having your head up your ass?" "If I understand your crudities, I assume this is an American joke, then, no Mr. Foster, I do not know the difference." "Depth perception.
Miles looked for a reaction to his anatomi- cal doublette.
There was none other than Homosoto's benign smile indicating no comprehension.
OK, never mind, I'll save it.
At any rate, enough was enough.
I gotta do something with my life." Miles had said his piece. "In other words, money is your motivation?" "Money doesn't hurt, sure.
But, I need to do what I believe. Not that that means hurting my country, but if they don't listen to what makes sense, maybe it's best that they meet their worst enemy to get them off of their keesters.
Miles was on a roll. "Keesters?
Homosoto's naivete was amusing. "Oops!
He patted his own which finally communicated the intention. "Ah yes.
So you feel you could best serve your country by attacking it?" Miles only thought for a few seconds.
I guess you could put it that way.
Sure." "Mr. Foster, or should I say General Foster?
Miles beamed at the reference.
We shall march to success." "Mr. Homosoto," Miles broke the pagential silence.
I would like to ask you the same question.
Why?" "I was wondering when you were going to ask me that Mr. Foster," Homosoto said with his grin intact.
Because, Mr. Foster, I am returning the favor." **************************************************************** Chapter 9 September, 1982 South East Iraq Ahmed Shah lay in a pool of his own blood along with pieces of what was once another human being. The pain was intolerable.
His mind exploded as the nerve endings from the remains of his arms and legs shot liquid fire into his cerebral cortex.
His mind screamed in sheer agony while he struggled to stay conscious.
He wasn't sure why, but he had to stay awake . . .can't pass out . . .sleep, blessed sleep . . .release me from the pain . . .Allah!
Both Iran and Iraq threw waves of human fodder at each other in what was referred to in the world press as " . . .auto-genocide . . ." Neither side reacted to the monumental casualties that they sustained.
The lines of reinforcements were steady.
The dead bodies were thick on the battlefield; there was no time to col- lect them and provide a proper burial.
New troops had as much difficulty wading through the obstacle courses made of human corpses as staying alive. Public estimates were that the war had already cost over 1,000,000 lives for the adversaries.
Both governments disputed the figures.
The two agreed only 250,000 had died.
The extrem- ist leaders of both countries believed that the lower casualty numbers would mollify world opinion.
It accomplished the exact opposite.
Criticism was rampant, in the world courts and the press.
Children were going to battle.
Or more appropriately, children were marching in the front lines, often without weapons or shoes, and used as cover for the advancing armed infantrymen behind them.
The children were disposable receptacles for enemy bullets.
Many were professional mourners who were hired by others to represent families to make them look bigger and more Holy.
Expert wailing and flagellation came at a price.
He was reared as a dedicated Muslim by wealthy parents.
Somehow his parents had escaped the Ayatollah's scourge after the fall of the Shah.
Ahmed was never told the real reason, but a distribution of holy rials certainly helped.
They were permitted to keep their beautiful home in the suburbs of Teheran and Ahmed's father kept his pro- fessorship at Teheran University.
Ahmed was taught by his family that the Shah's downfall was the only acceptable response to the loss of faith under his regime. "The Shah is a puppet of the Americans.
The Yanqis come over here, tell us to change our culture and our beliefs so we can make them money from our oil!" For a professor he was outspoken, but viewed as mainstream by the extremist camps.
For the most part of his life all Ahmed knew was the Ayatollah Khomeini as his country's spiritual leader.
From his par- ents he would hear of childhood friends who had been killed. Teheran University students and graduates were honored daily in the Mosque on campus.
The names were copied and distributed throughout the schools.
Ahmed's guilt compounded as the months passed and so many died.
He had been too young to participate in the occupation of the American Embassy.
How jeal- ous he was. Why should I wait to serve Allah?
Today I can be of service, where he needs me, but if I stay and study, I will not be able to bid his Will for years.
And what if Iraq wins?
There would be no more studies anyway.
Ahmed anguished for weeks over how he could best serve Iran, his Ayatollah and Allah. After his freshman finals, on which he excelled, he joined the Irani Army.
The open desert offers little camouflage so the soldiers built fox holes behind the larger sand dunes. They innaccurately thought they were hidden from view.
More than half the company died instantly.
Pieces of bodies were strewn across the sandy tented bivouac. Another 20 were dying within 50 yards of where Ahmed writhed in agony.
Was it 5 minutes or 5 hours later.
He had no way of knowing.
The left lower arm where he wore his wristwatch was gone.
As were his legs. Mutilated . . .the highest form of insult and degradation.
Oh, Allah, I have served you, let me die and come to you now.
Let me suffer no more. Suddenly his attention was grabbed by the sound of a jeep cough- ing its way to a stop.
He heard voices. "This one's still alive.
Then a shot rang out.
A few muted voices from the dying protested and asked for mercy.
I give Mercy to a dog before you.
A scream and 2 shots.
Killing off the wounded. Pigs!
Mother Whores! "You, foreskin of a camel!
Your mother lies with dogs!
Ahmed screamed at the soldiers.
One, it kept him a little more alert and less aware of his pain, and two, it attracted the attention of the two soldiers from the jeep. "Ola!
Who insults the memory of my mother who sits with Allah? Who?
One soldier spun around and tried to imagine which one of the pieces of bodies that surrounded him still had enough life to speak.
He scanned the sand nearby.
Open eyes were not a sure sign of life nor was the presence of four limbs.
There needed to be a head. "Over here camel dung.
Hussein fucks animals who give birth to the likes of you.
Ahmed's viciousness was the only facial feature that gave away he was alive.
The soldiers saw their tormentor. "Prepare to meet with your Allah, now," as one soldier took aim at Ahmed's head. "Go ahead!
I welcome death so I won't have to see your filth . . .
Ahmed defied the soldier and the automatic rifle aimed at him. The other soldier intervened.
That's too easy and we would be honoring his last earthly request.
No, this one doesn't beg for mercy.
At least he's a man.
Let's just make him suffer.
The second soldier raised his gun and pointed at the junction of Ahmed's two stumps for legs.
Two point blank range shots shattered the three components of his genitals. Ahmed let out a scream so primal, so anguished, so penetrating that the soldiers bolted to escape the sounds of death.
The scream continued, briefly interrupted by a pair of shots that caught the two soldiers square in the middle of the back as they ran.
They dropped onto the hot desert sand with matched thuds. Ahmed didn't hear the shots over the sounds coming from his larynx.
He was wired up to tubes and machines in an obviously well equipped hospital.
The nurse spoke to the physician who was writing on Ahmed's medical chart. "He'll wish he wasn't.
Hell hasn't begun for him yet.
All must die, take no prisoners were their marching orders.
In the Iraqi Army you either did exactly as you were told, with absolute obedience, or you were shot on sight as a traitor.
We lost at Abadan, the Iraqi's thought, but there will be more battles to win. Ahmed was the only survivor from his company, and there was no earthly reason that could explain why he lived.
He was more dead than alive.
His blood coagulated well in the hot desert sun, otherwise the blood loss alone would have killed him.
The medics found many of his missing pieces and packed them up for their trip to the hospital, but the doctors were unable to re-attach anything of significance. He was a eunuch.
With no legs and only one good arm. Weeks of wishing himself dead proved to be the source of rest that contributed to his recovery.
Was he, God forbid, neither?
Why had he not just died along with the others, why was he spared!
If I had truly been spared I would be living with Allah!
This is not being spared. This is living hell and someone will pay.
He cried to his par- ents about his torment and his mother wailed and beat her breast. His father listened to the anger, the hate and the growing strength within his son's being.
Hate could be the answer that would make his son, his only son, whole again.
Whole in spirit at least. The debates within Ahmed's mind developed into long philosophical arguments about right, wrong, revenge, avenge, purpose, cause and reason.
He would take both sides of an issue, and see if he could beat himself with his alter rationales.
The frustration at knowing one's opponents' thoughts when developing your own coun- ter argument made him angry, too.
He finally started arguing with other patients.
He would take any position, on any issue and debate all night.
Argumentative, contrary, but recovering completely described the patient. Over the months his strength returned and he appeared to come to grips with his infirmaries.
As much as anyone can come to terms with such physical mutilations.
He covered his facial wounds with a full black beard that melded into his full short cropped kinky hair. Ahmed graduated from Teheran University in 1984 with a cruel hatred for anything Anti-Islam.
One major target of his hatred was President Reagan, the cowboy president, the Teflon president, the evil Anti-Muslim Zionist loving American president.
And the Iraqis did this to him.
It wasn't the soldiers' fault.
They were just following orders: Do or Die.
Any rational person would have done the same thing.
So he blamed Reagan, not Hussein.
And Reagan personified them all. How does a lousy movie actor from the 1950's get to be President of the United States?
Ahmed laughed to himself at the obvious answer.
His highly visible infirmities assisted with his credibility. In his sixth semester of study, Ahmed's counselor called him for a conference.
Beside his counselor was another man, Beni Farja- ni, from the government.
Beni was garbed in Arab robes and tur- bans that always look filthy.
Still, he was the officious type, formal and somber.
His long white hair snuck through the turban, and his face shoed ample wrinkles of wisdom. He and the Counselor sat alone, on one side of a large wooden conference table that could easily have seated 20.
Ahmed stopped his motorized wheel chair at the table, Farjani spoke, and curiously, the Counselor rose from his chair and slipped out of the room.
Ahmed and the Government official were alone. "My name is Beni Farjani, Associate Director to the Undersecre- tary of Communications and Propaganda.
I trust you are well." Ahmed long since gave up commenting on his well being or lack thereof.
It is good to meet you, sir.
He waited for more. "Ahmed Shah, you are important to the state and the people of Iran.
Farjani said it as though his comment was already common knowledge.
What I am here to ask you, Ahmed Shah, is, are you willing again to serve Allah?" "Yes, of course . . .?
He bowed his head in reverence. "Good, because we think that you might be able to assist on a small project we have been contemplating.
My son, you have the gift of oration, speaking, moving crowds to purpose.
I only wish I had it!
Beni Farjani smiled solemnly at Ahmed. "I thank Allah for His gift.
I am only the humble conduit for his Will." "I understand, but you have now, and will have much to proud of. I believe you graduate in 6 months.
Is that correct?" "Yes, and then I go to Graduate School . . ." "I am afraid that won't be possible Ahmed Shah.
Farjani shook a kindly wrinkled finger at him.
As soon as you graduate, your Government, at Allah's bidding, would like you to move to the United States." "America?
Ahmed gaped in surprise. "We fear that America may invade Iran, that we may go to war with the United States.
Sure, relations were in pretty bad shape, but was Farjani saying that Iran was truly preparing for War?
Jihad? Holy War against the United States? "We need to protect ourselves," Farjani spoke calmly, with au- thority.
America has weapons of mass destruction that can reach our land in minutes, while we have nothing to offer in retalia- tion.
Nothing, and that is a very frightening reality that the people of Iran must live with every day.
A truly helpless feel- ing.
Ahmed was listening carefully, and so far what he heard was making a great deal of sense. "Both the Soviets and the Americans can destroy each other and the rest of the world with a button.
Their armies will never meet.
A few missiles and it's all over.
A 30 minute grand finale to civilization.
They don't have to, nor would we expect either the Soviets or the Americans to ask the rest of the world if they mind.
They just go ahead and pull the trigger and every- one else be damned. "And yes, there have been better times when our nation has had more friends, when all Arabs thought and acted as one; especially against the Americans.
They have the most to gain and the most to lose from invading and crossing our borders.
They would love nothing more than to steal our land, our oil and even take over OPEC.
All in the name of world stability.
They'll throw around National Security smoke screens and do what they want.
Farjani was speaking quite excitedly. Ahmed was fascinated.
A man from the Government who was nearly as vitriolic as he was about America.
The only difference was Ahmed wanted to attack, and Farjani wanted to defend.
He didn't think it opportune to interrupt.
Farjani continued. "The Russians want us as a warm water port.
They have enough oil, gas and resources, but they crave a port that isn't con- trolled by the Americans such as in the Black Sea and through the Hellespont.
So they too, are a potential enemy.
You see don't you, Ahmed, that Allah has so graced our country everyone else wants to take it away from us?
Ahmed nodded automatically. "So we need to create a defense against outside aggressors.
We do not have weapons that can reach American shores, that is so. But we have something that the Americans will never have, because they will never understand.
Do you know what that is?" Before Ahmed could answer, Farjani continued. "Honor and Faith to protect our heritage, our systems, our way of life.
Ahmed agreed. "We want you, Ahmed Shah to build a network of supporters, just like you, all across the United States that will come to our service when we need them.
Your skills will capture the attention of those with kindred sentiments.
You will draw them out, from the schools, from the universities. "Ahmed Shah, there are over 100,000 Irani and Arab students in the United States today.
Many, many of them are sympathetic to our causes.
Many of them are attending American Universities, side by side with their future enemies, learning the American way so we may better fight it.
You will have no problems in recruiting.
That will be the easy part." "If recruiting is so easy, then what will be the hard task?" "Holding them back.
You will find it most difficult to restrain your private army from striking.
Right under the American's noses, you will have to keep them from bursting at the seams until the day comes when they are needed.
If could be weeks, it could be years.
Maybe the day will never come. But it is your job to build this Army.
Grow it, feed it and keep our national spirit alive until such time that it becomes necessary to defend our nation, Allah and loyal Muslims every- where.
This time, though, we will fight America from within, inside her borders. "There hasn't been a foreign war on American soil since 1812. Americans don't know what is like to have their country ruined, ravaged, blown up before their eyes.
We need a defense against America, and when it is deeded by Allah, our army will strike back at America where is hurts most.
In the streets of their cities.
In their homes, parks and schools.
But first we must have that army.
In place, and willing to act. "You will find out all the details in good time, I assure you. You will require some training, though, and that will begin shortly.
Everything you need to serve will be given you.
Go with Allah. Ahmed trained for several months with the infamous terrorist group Abu Nidal.
He learned the basics that every modern terror- ist needs to know to insure success against the Infidels. Shah moved to New York City on December 25, 1986.
Christmas was a non issue.
They both used Columbia University as their cover.
Every one of their em- ployers would have attested to their skills, honor and loyalty to their adapted country.
Ahmed's group was well versed in decep- tion.
After all, they answered to a greater cause. What even a seasoned reporter might not find out though, was that all 12 of Ahmed's elite recruiters had to pass a supreme test often required by international political terrorist organiza- tions.
Or to blow up the school bus that carried your pre-teen sister to school.
Or engage your brother in a mock fight and then sever his head from his body.
The savagery that permitted one access into this elite circle is beyond the compre- hension of most Western minds.
Yet such acts were expected to demonstrate one's loyalty to a supreme purpose or belief. The events surrounding Solman Rushdie and the Satanic Verses were a case in point.
A deed for which they were honored and revered. These were the men, all of them men, who pledged allegiance to Ahmed Shah and the unknown, undefined assignments they would in the future be asked to complete.
To the death if necessary, and without fear.
The only difference with Ahmed's men was that they were trained to die, not to survive.
And unlike their Mole counter- parts, they were awake the entire time, focused on their mission. Clearly it was only a matter of time before they would be asked to follow orders with blind obedience.
Their only reward was a place in the Muslim heaven. Meanwhile, while awaiting sainthood, their task was to find others with similar inclinations, or those who could be corralled into their system of beliefs.
It was unrealistic, they knew, to expect to find an entire army of sympathizers who would fight to the death or perform suicide missions in the name of Allah.
The immigration policy of the U.S. was the most open in the entire world.
So, the Government allowed the entry of some of the world's most dangerous people into the country, and then gave them total freedom, with its associated anonymity.
Such things could never happen at home, Ahmed thought.
We love our land too much to permit our enemies on our soil.
And another several thousand who could be led into battle under the right conditions.
And more came and joined as the ridiculous immigration policies continued un- checked. They were students, businessmen, flight attendants who were now in the United States for prolonged periods of time.
All walks of life were included in his Army.
Some were technicians or book- keepers, delivery men, engineers, doctors; most disciplines were represented.
Since Ahmed had no idea when, if ever, he and his army would be needed, nor for what purpose, recruiting a wide range of talents would provide Allah with the best odds if they were ever needed.
Not one woman in this man's army, Ahmed thought. The biggest problem, just as Farjani had predicted, was the growing sense of unrest among the troops.
The inner 12 had been professionally trained to be patient.
Wait for the right moment to strike.
Do not disclose your alliances or your allegiances to anyone.
No one can be trusted. Except your recruiter.
Act like any Ameri- can immigrant who flourishes in his new home.
Do not, at all costs, give yourself away.
That much was crucial. Periodically, the inner 12 would assign mundane, meaningless tasks to various of their respective recruits.
Americans called it busy work.
But, it kept interest alive, the belief in the eventual victory of the Arab Nation against the American mon- grels.
It kept the life in their organization flowing, not dulled by the prolonged waiting for the ultimate call: Jihad, a holy war against America, waged from inside its own unprotected borders.
It was their raison d'<130>tre.
The underlying gestalt for their very existence. * * * * * February 6, 1988 New York City "It is time.
Ahmed could not believe the words - music to his ears.
It was not a long distance call; too clear.
It had to be local.
The caller spoke in Ahmed's native tongue and conveyed an excitement that immediately consumed him.
He sat in his wheel- chair at a computer terminal in an engineering lab at Columbia University's Broadway campus.
While he had hoped this day would come, he also knew that politicians, even Iran's, promised a glory that often was buried in diplomacy rather than action. Praise be Allah. "We are ready.
Ahmed was nearly breathless with anticipation.
The spineless United States would never have the strength nor will to wage war against a United Arab State. "That is good.
The caller agreed with Ahmed.
But it is not the war you expect." Ahmed was taken aback.
He had not known what to expect, exactly, but, over the months he had conjured many scenarios of how his troops would be used to perform Allah's Will.
His mind reeled. "For whom do you speak?
There was a hint of distrust in the question. "Farjani said you would ask.
He said, 'there hasn't been a war on U.S. soil since 1812'.
He said you would understand." Ahmed understood.
Only someone that was privy to their conversa- tions would have known that.
His heart quickened with anticipa- tion.
With whom do I speak?
Ahmed asked reverently. "My name is of no consequence.
I am only a humble servant of Allah with a message.
You are to follow instructions exactly, without reservation." "Of course.
I, too, am but a servant of God.
What are my in- structions?
Ahmed felt like standing at parade attention if only he had legs. "This will not be our war.
But our pur- poses are the same.
You will act as his army, and are to follow his every request.
As if Allah came to you and so ordered him- self." Ahmed beamed.
He would and his army would perform admirably.
He lis- tened carefully as the anonymous caller gave him his instruc- tions.
He noted the details as disbelief sank in. This is Jihad?
You are expected to comply.
I am clear, but are you sure?
Then I will follow orders.
No, this is your task, your destiny.
The Arab Nation calls upon you now.
We, our army will perform. "Insha'allah." "Yes, God willing." Ahmed Shah put his teaching schedule on hold by asking for and receiving an immediate sabbatical.
He then booked and took a flight to Tokyo three days later. "I need an army, and I am told you can provide such services for me.
Homosoto asked Ahmed Shah though he already knew the answer. Ahmed Shah and Taki Homosoto were meeting in a private palace in the outskirts of Tokyo.
Ahmed wasn't quite sure to whom it belonged, but he was following orders and in no way felt in danger.
The grounds were impeccable, a Japanese Versailles.
The weather was cool, but not uncomfortably so.
Both men sat under an arbor that would be graced with cherry blossoms in a few months.
Each carried an air of confidence, an assurity not meant as arrogance, but rather as an assertion of control, power over their respective empires. "How large is you army?
Homosoto knew the answer, but asked anyway. "One thousand to the death.
Three thousand to extreme pain, another ten thousand functionaries.
Ahmed Shah said with pride. Homosoto laughed a convivial Japanese laugh, and lightly slapped his knees.
To the death, so familiar, that is why you are here, but, I hope that will not be necessary.
You see, this war will be one without bullets.
Homosoto said waiting for the volatile Arab's reaction. This was exactly what Ahmed feared.
How could one afford to wage a war against America and not expect, indeed, plan for, the death of some troops.
There was no Arab transla- tion for pussy-wimp, but the thought was there. "How may I be of service?" "The task is simple.
I have need of information, much informa- tion that will be of extreme embarrassment to the United States. Their Government operates illegally, their companies control the country with virtual impunity from law.
It is time that they are tried for their crimes.
Homosoto tailored his words so that his guest would acquire an enthusiasm similar to his. "Yes," Ahmed agreed.
They need to learn a lesson.
But, Mr. Homosoto, how can that be done without weapons?
I assume you want to attack their planes, their businesses, Washington per- haps?
Ahmed was hopeful for the opportunity to give his loyal troops the action they desired. "In a manner of speaking, yes, my friend.
We shall strike where they least expect it, and in a way in which they are totally unprepared.
Homosoto softened his speech to further his pitch to gain Ahmed Shah's trust and unity.
We shall be much more subtle.
I assume you have been informed of that by your superiors.
Homosoto waited for Ahmed's response. "As you say, we have been trained to expect, even welcome death in the struggle against our adversaries.
Yet I recognize that a joint effort may be more fruitful for all of us.
It may be a disappointment to some of my people that they will not be permit- ted the honor of martyrdom, but they are expected to follow orders.
If they do not comply, they will die without the honor they crave.
They will perform as ordered." "Excellent.
That is as I hoped.
Homosoto beamed at the de- veloping understanding.
My people will provide you with the weapons of this new war, a type of war never before fought.
These are technological weapons that do not kill the enemy.
Better, they expose him for what he is.
It will be up to your army to use these weapons and allow us to launch later attacks against the Americans. "There are to be no independent actions or activities.
None without my and your direction and approval.
Can you abide by these conditions?" "At the request of my Government and Allah, I will be happy to serve you in your war.
Both our goals will be met.
Ahmed glowed at the opportunity to finally let his people do something after so much waiting. Homosoto arose and stood over Ahmed.
We will make a valuable alliance.
To the destruction of America.
He held his water glass to Ahmed. Ahmed responded by raising his glass.
To Allah, and the cause!" They both drank deeply from the Perrier.
Homosoto had one more question. "If one or more off your men get caught, will they talk?" "They will not talk." "How can you be so sure?
No such luck. America is up and running. That doesn't mean that no one got struck by computer influenza, though.
There are hundreds of reports of widespread damage to microcomputers everywhere. The Bala Cynwyd, PA medical center lost several weeks of records. Credit Card International was struck in Madrid, Spain and can't figure out which customers bought what from whom.
We have had re- ports of several small outbreaks, but we have not heard of any particularly devastating incidents.
It seems that only a few isolated sites were affected." On the other hand, Bethan Fenster from Virus Stoppers in McLean, Virginia, maintains that the virus damage was much more wide- spread.
She says the outbreaks are worse than reported in the press.
I personally know of several Fortune 100 companies that will be spending the next several weeks putting their systems back in order.
Some financial institutions have been nearly shut down because their computers are inoperable.
It's the worst (computer) virus outbreak I've ever seen." Very few companies would confirm that they had been affected by the Columbus Day Virus.
They won't talk to you," Ms. Fenster said.
If a major company announced publicly that their comput- ers were down due to criminal activity, there would be a certain loss of confidence in that company.
Nonetheless, several of those companies hit, feel lucky. "We only lost about a thousand machines," said Ashley Marie, senior network manager at Edison Power.
Considering that we have no means of protecting our computers at all, we could have been totally put out of business.
She said that despite the cost to repair the systems, her management feels no need to add security or protective measures in the future.
They believe that this was a quirk, a one time deal.
Of all of the reports of downed computers yesterday, less than 10% are from the Data Crime.
Anyone who had any sort of trouble is blaming it on the virus rather than more common causes like hardware malfunction and operator error.
It is a lot more glamorous to admit being hit by the virus that has created near hysteria over the last month." Whatever the truth, it seems to be well hidden under the guise of politics.
There is mounting evidence and concern that computer viruses and computer hackers are endangering the contents of our computers.
Edgar Hoover Building, FBI Headquarters Washington, D.C. The sweltering October heat wave of the late Indian summer pene- trated the World War II government buildings that surrounded the Mall and the tourist attractions.
Window air conditioners didn't provide the kind of relief that modern workers were used to.
So, shirtsleeves were rolled up, the nylons came off, and ties were loose if present at all. The streets were worse.
The climatic changes that graced much of North America were exaggerated in Washington.
The heat was hot- ter, the humidity wetter.
Sweat was no longer a five letter word, it was a way of life. Union Station, the grand old train station near the Capitol Building provided little relief.
The immense volume of air to be cooled was too much for the central air conditioners.
They were no match for mother nature's revenge on the planet for unforgiv- ing hydrocarbon emissions.
As soon as Tyrone Duncan detrained from the elegant Metroliner he had ridden this morning from New York's Penn Station, he was drenched in perspiration.
He discov- ered, to his chagrin, that the cab he had hailed for his ride to headquarters had no air conditioning.
The stench of the city, and the garbage and the traffic fumes reminded him of home.
New York. Tyrone showed his identification at the J.
Edgar Hoover Building wishing he had the constitution to wear a seersucker suit.
There is no way on God's earth a seersucker could show a few hours wear as desperately as his $1200 Louis Boston did, he thought.
Then, there was the accompanying exhaustion from his exposure to the dense Washington air.
Duncan had not been pleased with the panic call that forced him to Washington anyway.
His reactions to the effects of the temperature humidity index did not portend a good meeting with Bob Burnson. Bob had called Tyrone night before, at home.
He said, we have a situation here, and it requires some immediate attention.
Would you mind being here in the morning?
Instead of a question, it was an unissued order.
Rather than fool around with hours of delays at La Guardia and National Airport, Tyrone elected to take the train and arrive in the nation's capitol just after noon.
It took, altogether just about the same amount of time, yet he could travel in relative luxury and peace.
Burnson was waiting for him. Bob Burnson held the title of National Coordinator for Tactical Response for the FBI.
He was a little younger that Duncan, just over 40, and appeared cool in his dark blue suit and tightly collared shirt.
Burnson had an unlikely pair of qualities.
He was both an extraordinarily well polished politician and a astute investigator.
Tyrone was most pleased that he had a boss who would at least give his arguments a fair listen before being told that for this or that political reason, the Bureau had chosen a different line of reasoning.
So be it, thought Duncan. I'm not a policy maker, just a cop.
Tyrone sank into one of the government issue chairs in Burnson's modern, yet modest office ringed with large windows that can't open. "How 'bout that Arctic Chill?
Burnson's short lithe 150 pound frame showed no wear from the heat.
Glad you could make it." "Shee . . .it man," Tyrone exhaled as he wiped his shiny wet black face and neck.
Like I had a choice. If it weren't for the company, I'd be at the beach getting a tan.
He continued to wipe his neck and head with a monogrammed handkerchief. "Lose a few pounds, and it won't hurt so bad.
You know, I could make an issue of it," Bob poked fun. "And I'm outta here so fast, Hoover'll cheer from his grave," he sweated.
The reference to the FBI founder's legendary bigotry was a common source of jokes in the modern bureau. "No doubt.
Burnson passed by the innuendo.
Maybe we'd balance the scales, too.
He dug the knife deeper in refer- ence to Tyrone's weight. "That's two," said Duncan. "Ok, ok," said Burnson feigning surrender.
How's Arlene and the rest of the sorority?
He referred to the house full of women with whom Tyrone had spent a good deal of his life. "Twenty degrees cooler.
He was half serious. "Listen, since you're hear, up for a bite?
Bob tried. "Listen, how 'bout we do business then grab a couple of cold ones.
That's my idea of a quality afternoon.
Camelot was the famous downtown strip joint on 18th and M street that former Mayor Marion Berry had haunted and been 86'd from for unpublished reasons.
It was dark and frequented by government employees for lunch, noticeably the ones from Treas- ury. "Deal.
Bob's demeanor shifted to the officious. "Accept what?
Tyrone asked suspiciously. "My proposition." "Is this another one of your lame attempts to promote me to an office job in Capitol City?" "Well, yes and no. You're being re-assigned.
No easy way to say it. "To what?" exclaimed Tyrone angrily. "To ECCO." "What the hell is ECCO?" "All in good time.
To the point," Bob said calmly.
How much do you know about this blackmail thing?" "Plenty.
I read the reports, and I have my own local problems. Not to mention that the papers have picked it up.
If it weren't for the National Expos printing irresponsibly, the mainstream press would have kept it quiet until there was some con- firmation." "Agreed," said Burnson.
They are being spoken to right now, about that very subject, and as I hear it, they will have more lawsuits on their doorstep than they can afford to defend.
They really blew it this time." "What else?
Bob was listening intently. "Not much.
Loose, unfounded innuendo, with nothing to follow up. Reminds me of high school antics or mass hysteria.
Tyrone Duncan dismissed the coincidences and the thought of Scott's conspiracy theory.
But it does make for a busy day at the office." "Agreed, however, you only saw the reports that went on the wire. Not the ones that didn't go through channels." "What do you mean by that?
Duncan voiced concern at being out of the loop. "What's on the wire is only the tip of the iceberg.
There's a lot more." "What else?" "Senators calling the Director personally, asking for favors. Trying to keep their secrets secret.
A junior Midwest senator has some quirky sexual habits.
A Southern anti-pornography ball- breaker happens to like little boys.
It goes on and one.
They've all received calls saying that their secrets will be in the news- papers' hands within days." "Unless?
Duncan awaited the resolved threat. "No unless, which scares them all senseless.
It's the same story everywhere.
Highly influential people who manage many of our countries' strategic assets have called their senators, and asked them to insure that their cases are solved in a quiet and expedi- ent political manner.
Burnson asked Duncan. "More than vaguely," Tyrone had to admit.
How many?" "As of this morning we have 17 Senators asking the FBI to make discreet investigations into a number of situations.
Not to mention a couple hundred executive types with connections. Within days of each other.
They each, so far, believe that theirs is an isolated incident and that they are the sole target of such . . .threats is as good a word as any.
Getting the picture?" Tyrone whistled to himself.
They're all the same?" "Yes, and there's something else.
To a man, each claimed that there was no way the blackmailer could know what he knew.
That's what got the Director and his cronies in on this.
And then me . . .and that's why you're here," Burnson said with finality. "Why?
Tyrone was getting frustrated with the roundabout dia- tribe. "We're pulling the blackmail thing to the national office and a special task force will take over.
A lot of folks upstairs want to pull you in and stick you in charge of the whole operation, but I told them that you weren't interested, that you like it the way it is.
So, I struck a deal.
Burnson sounded proud. Duncan wasn't convinced.
Since when do you talk for me?
Tyrone didn't think to thank Bob for the front line pass interference.
Keep the politicos out of his hair. "Have you been following any of the computer madness recently?" Burnson spoke as though he expected Tyrone to know nothing of it. "Can't miss it.
From what I hear, a lot of people are getting pretty spooked that they may be next." "It gets more interesting than what the papers say," Bob said while opening a desk drawer.
He pulled out a large folder and lay it across his desk.
Bob scanned a few pages of the folder and para- phrased while reading.
Ah, yes, the NPRP, National Pretrial Reporting Program over at Justice . . .was hit with a series of computer viruses apparently intentionally placed in VMS comput- ers, whatever the hell those are.
Bob Burnson was not computer fluent, but he knew what the Bureau's computer could do. "The Army Supply Center at Fort Stewart, Georgia had all of its requisitions for the last year erased from the computer.
Bob chuckled as he continued.
So ECCO is being activated." "What the hell is ECCO?
Tyrone asked again. "ECCO stands for Emergency Computer Crisis Organization.
It's a computer crisis team that responds to . . .well I guess, comput- er crises.
Bob opened the folder again.
It was formed during the, and I quote, ' . . .the panic that followed the first INTER- NET Worm in November of 1988.'" Tyrone's mouth hung open.
What panic?" "The one that was kept under absolute wraps," Bob said, slightly lowering his voice.
At first no one knew what the INTERNET event was about.
Why and how it was happen- ing.
Imagine 10's of thousands of computers stopping all at once.
It scared the shit out of the National Security Council, remember we and the Russians weren't quite friends then, and we thought that military secrets were being funneled straight to the Kremlin.
You can't believe some of the contingency plans I heard about." "I had no idea . . ." "You weren't supposed to," Bob added.
At any rate, right afterward DARPA established CERT, the Computer Emer- gency Response Team at Carnegie Mellon, and DCA set up a Security Coordination Center at SRI International to investigate problems in the Defense Data Network.
Livermore and the DOE got into the act with Computer Incident Advisory Capability.
Then someone decided that the bureaucracy was still too light and it deserved at least a fourth redundant, overlapping and rival group to investigate on behalf of Law Enforcement Agencies.
So, there we have ECCO." "So what's the deal?" asked Tyrone.
What do I have to do?" "The Director has asked ECCO to investigate the latest round of viruses and the infiltration of a dozen or so sensitive and classified computers.
Bob watched for Ty's reaction, but saw none yet.
He wondered how he would take the news.
This time, we would like to be involved in the entire operation from start to finish.
Make sure the investigation is done right.
We'd like to start nailing some of the bastards on the Federal level.
Besides you have the legal background and we are treading on some very new and untested waters." "I can imagine.
So what's our role?" "Your role," Bob emphasized 'your', "will be to liaison with the other interested agencies." "Who else is playing?" asked Tyrone with trepidation. "Uh, that is the one negative," stammered Bob.
You've got NSA, CIA, NIST, the NSC, the JCS and a bunch of others that don't matter.
The only rough spot is the NSA/NIST connection.
Every- one else is there just to make sure they don't miss anything." "What's their problem?" "Haven't heard, huh?" laughed Bob.
Bob never had gotten used to Tyrone's peculiar method of deep thought; he found it most unnerving. Bob's intents were crystal clear, not that Tyrone minded.
He had no desire to move to D.C.; indeed he would have quit instead. He wanted to stay with the Bureau and the action but in his comfortable New York existence.
Otherwise, no. But, if he could get Bob off his back by this one favor.
Sure it might not be real action, watching computer jockies play with themselves . . .but it might be an interesting change in pace. "Yes, under a couple of condition.
Tyrone was suddenly a little too agreeable and smug after his earlier hesitancy. "Conditions?
Bob's suspicion was clear. "One.
I do it my way, with no, and I mean, absolutely no inter- ference.
Duncan awaited a reply to his first demand. "What else?" "I get to use who I want to use, inside or outside the Bureau." "Outside?
We can't let this outside.
The last thing in the world we want is publicity." "You're gonna get it anyway.
Let's do it right this time." "What do you mean by that?
Bob asked somewhat defensively. "What I mean is," Tyrone spoke up, sounding confident, "that the press are already on this computer virus thing and hackers and all.
So, let's not advertise it, but when it comes up, let's deal with it honest." "No way," blurted out Bob.
They'll make it worse than it is." "I have that covered.
A friend of my works for a paper, and he is a potential asset." "What's the trade?" "Not much.
Half day leads, as long as he keeps it fair." "Anything else?
Bob asked, not responding to Ty. "One last thing," Tyrone said sitting up straighter.
After this one, you promise to let me alone and work my golden years, the way I want, where I want until my overdue retirement." "I don't know if I can . . ." "Then forget it," interrupted Tyrone.
It was the penultimate threat and bluff and caught Bob off balance. "Wait a minute.
You can't hold me hostage . . ." "Isn't that what you're doing to me?
Touch<130>! Bob sat back in thought.
To an event, Duncan had been right on. He had uncannily been able to solve, or direct the solution of a crime where all others had failed.
And, he always put the Bureau in the best possible light.
If he didn't go with him now, lose him for sure. "And, I may need some discretionary funds.
Duncan was making a mental list of those things he thought he needed.
His sources of information were the most valuable.
Without them, it would be a bad case of babysitting sissy assed bureaucrats staking out their ground. "Yes to the money.
Ouch, but yes to hands off your promotion. Maybe, to the reporter.
It's my ass, too, you know." "You called me," Tyrone said calmly.
Remember?" I can't win this one, thought Bob.
He's never screwed up yet. Not big time.
As they say, with enough rope you either bring in the gang or hang yourself.
That's all Bob had to say.
Other than that, I don't give a good goddamn what you do," Bob resigned. "One more thing," Tyrone slipped in. "What is it?
Bob was getting exasperated. "It happens out of New York, not here." "But . . ." "No buts.
Period." "Ok, New York, but you report here when I need you.
Agreed?" "Agreed," said Tyrone agreeably.
Deal?" "Yes, except no with the press, this reporter of yours.
Agreed?" "Whatever," Tyrone told Bob. * * * * * From his hotel room, Tyrone Duncan called Scott Mason at his home.
EST, and Ty was feeling no pain after several hours of drinking and slipping $10 bills into garter belts at Camelot. "RCA, Russian Division," Scott Mason answered his phone. "Don't do that," Tyrone slurred.
That'll trigger the monitors." "Oh, sorry, I thought you wanted the plans for the Stealth Bom- ber . . ." "C'mon, man," Tyrone pleaded.
It's not worth the paperwork." Scott choked through his laughter.
I'm watching a Honeymooner rerun.
His condo commanded a vista of lights that reflected the power to manipulate the world.
He and Perky lounged on his 8th. floor balcony after a wonderfully satisfying romp in his waterbed.
For every action there is an equal and opposite reaction.
Sex in a water- bed meant the expenditure of the least energy for the maximum pleasure.
Ah, the beauty of applied mathematics. Over the last four years Perky and Miles had seen each other on a periodically regular basis.
She was a little more than one of Miles' sexual release valves.
She was a semi-sorta-kinda girl friend, but wouldn't have been if Miles had known that she re- ported their liaisons back to her boss.
Alex was not interested in how she got her information.
He only wanted to know if there were any digressions in Miles mission. They sipped Grande Fine from oversized brandy glasses.
The afterglow was magnificent and they saw no reason to detract from it with meaningless conversation.
Her robe barely covered her firm breasts and afforded no umbrage for the triangle between her legs.
She wasn't ashamed of her nakedness, job or no job.
She enjoyed her time with Miles.
He asked for nothing from her but the obvious.
Unlike the others who often asked her for solici- tous introductions to others who wielded power that might further their own particular lobby.
Miles was honest, at least.
He even let her spend the night upon occasion. At 2 A.M., as they gazed over the reflections in the Potomac, Miles' phone warbled.
He ignored the first 5 rings to Perky's annoyance. "Aren't you going to answer?
Her unspoken thoughts said,<MI> do whatever you have to do to make that infernal noise top.<D> "Expecting a call?
His eyes were closed, convey- ing his internal peace.
The phone rang again. "Miles, at least get a machine.
The phone rang a seventh time. "Fuck.
He stood and his thick terrycloth robe swept behind him as he walked into the elegantly simple modern living room through the open glass doors.
He put down his glass and answered on the 8th ring. "It's late," he answered.
His 'I don't give a shit' attitude was evident. "Mr. Foster, I am most displeased.
Miles curled his lips in disgust as Perky looked in from her balcony vantage. Miles breathed heavily into the phone.
Miles was trying to verbally show his distaste for such a late call. "Our plans were explicit.
Homosoto was controlled but forthright. "What the hell are you talking about?
Miles sipped loudly from the brandy glass. "I have read about the virus, the computer virus.
The whole world in talking about it.
Mr. Foster, you are early.
I thought we had an understanding." "Hey!
Foster yelled into the phone.
I don't know where you get off calling me at 2 in the morning, but you've got your head up your ass." "Excuse me Mr. Foster, I do not and could not execute such a motion.
However, do not forget we did have an agreement." Homosoto was insistent. "What the fuck are you talking about?
Miles was adamant. "Since you insist on these games, Mr. Foster.
I have read with great interest about the so called Columbus Day Virus.
I believe you have made a great error in judgment." Miles had just had about enough of this.
If you've got something to say, say it." he snorted into the phone. "Mr. Foster.
Did we not agree that the first major strike was not to occur until next year?" "Yeah," Miles said offhandedly.
He saw Perky open her eyes and look at him quizzically.
He made a fist with his right hand and made an obscene motion near his crotch. "Then, what is this premature event?
Miles looked out the balcony.
Perky was invitingly licking her lips.
Miles turned away to avoid distraction. "Mr. Foster, I find it hard to believe that you are not responsi- ble." "Tough shit." "Excuse me?
Homosoto was taken aback. "Simple.
You are not the only person, and neither am I, the only person who has chosen to build viruses or destructive computer programs.
We are merely taking a good idea and taking it to its logical conclusion as a pure form of offensive weaponsry.
This one's not mine nor yours.
It's someone elses." The phone was silent for a few seconds.
You are saying there are others?
The childlike naivete was coming through over 12,000 miles of phone wire. "Of course there are.
This will probably help us." "How do you mean?" "There are a hundreds of viruses, but none as effective as the ones which we use.
A lot of amateurs use them to build their egos.
Jerusalem-B, Lehigh, Pakistani, Brain, Marijuana, they all have names.
They have no purpose other than self aggrandizement. So, we will be seeing more and more viruses appear that have nothing to do with our efforts.
I do hope you will not call every time you hear of one.
You know our dates. " "Is there no chance for error?" "Oh yes!
There is, but it will be very isolated if it occurs. Most viruses do not receive as much attention as this one, and probably won't until we are ready.
And, as I recall we are not ready.
Miles was tired of the timing for the hand holding session.
Ms. Perkins was beckoning. "I hope you are right.
My plans must not be interfered with." "Our plans," Miles corrected. "my ass is on the line, too.
I don't need you freaking every time the press reports a computer going on the fritz.
It's gonna happen a lot." "What will happen, Mr. Foster?
Listen here Homo," Miles scowled.
In the last couple of years viruses have been become techno-yuppie amusements.
The game has intensified as the stakes have increased.
Are you aware . . .no I'm sure you're not, that the experts here say that, besides our work, almost every local area network in the country is infected with a virus of one type or another.
Did you know that?" "No, Mr. Foster, I didn't.
How do you know that?
Homosoto sounded unconvinced. "It's my fucking job to know that.
And you run an empire?" "Yes, I know , and I hope you do, Mr. Foster, that you work for me.
Condenscention was an executive Oriental trait that Miles found unsettling. "For now, I do." "You do, and will until our job is over.
Is that clear Mr. Foster?
You have much to lose." Miles sank deep into the couch, smirking and puckering his dim- ples.
He wanted to convey boredom.
You an empire." "Do not be concerned about me.
Good night, Mr. Foster." Homosoto had quickly cut the line.
Just as well, thought Miles. He had enough of that slant-eyed slope-browed rice-propelled mother-fucker for one night.
He had bigger and better and harder things to concern him. * * * * * October 31, 1989 Falls Church, Virginia. "What do you mean gone?" "Gone.
Fred Porter sounded panicked. Larry Ferguson, the Senior Vice President of First National Bank did not appreciate the news he was getting from the Transfer Department in New York.
Would you be kind enough to explain?" he said with disdain. "Yessir, of course.
Porter took a deep breath.
We were running a balance, the same one we run every day.
And every day, they balance.
The transfers, the receipts, the charges . . .every- thing.
When we ran them last night, they didn't add up.
We're missing a quarter billion dollars." "A quarter billion dollars?
You better have one good explanation, son." "I wish I did," Porter sighed. "All right, let's go through it top to bottom.
Ferguson knew that it was ultimately his ass if $250 Million was really miss- ing. "It's just as I told you." "Then tell me again!
We maintain transfer accounts as you know." "Of course I know." "During the day we move our transfer funds into a single account and wait till the end of the day to move the money to where it belongs.
We do that because . . ." "I know why we do it.
Ferguson was glad he had moved the psychological stress to his underling. "When we got to the account, about 9:00 A.M., it was empty. That's it.
All the money was gone." "And, pray tell, where did it go?
Templeton said sarcastically. "We don't know.
It was supposed to have been transferred to hundreds of accounts.
There's no audit of what happened." "Do you know how long it will take you to pay for this screw up Porter?
Templeton demanded. "Yessir." "How long?" "A hundred lifetimes," Porter said dejectedly. "Longer.
Ferguson really knew that Porter would- n't pay any price.
As long as the computer records showed he wasn't at fault, he would continue to be a valued employee. Ferguson himself was bound to be the scape goat. "What do you want me to do, sir?
Porter asked. "You've done enough.
Just wire me the records.
I have to talk to Weinhauser.
Ferguson hung up in disgust.
For a couple of young college guys this was the ideal job.
They could study in peace and quiet, nothing ever happened, no one bothered them, and the pay was decent. They were responsible for the 17th. and 18th. floors which had a sole entrance and exit; controlled access.
This was where the central computers for the Stock Exchange tried to maintain sanity in the market.
Joe strolled down the halls, brilliantly lit from recessed ceiling fixtures.
The corridor walls were all solid glass, giving the impression of more openness than was really provided by the windowless, climate controlled, 40% sterile environment.
In case of fire, heat sensors trigger the release of halon gas and suck all of the oxygen from the room in seconds.
The Stock Exchange computers received the best care. Joe tested the handle on the door of each darkened room through the myriad glass hallways.
Without the computers behind the glass walls, it might as well have been a House of Mirrors.
He noticed that the computer operators who work through the night were crowded together at the end of a hall next to the only computer rooms with activity.
He heard them muttering about the cleaning staff. "Hey guys, problem?
Joe asked. "Nah, we escaped," a young bearded man in a white lab coat said pointing into the room.
He reached for the flashlight on his belt and pressed a series of alarms on the control panel even though the video monitors were black and the emergency power had not come on.
He ran towards the sound of the blast and yelled. "Hello?
Hey?" he yelled nervously into the darkness. "Over here, hurry," a distant pained voice begged. Tony slid into a wall and stopped.
He pointed his flashlight down one hall.
Nothing. "Over here." He jumped sideways and pointed the beam onto a twisted maze of bodies, some with blood geysering into the air from their necks and arms and legs.
Tony saw that the explosion had shattered the glass walls into thousands of high velocity razor sharp projec- tiles.
The corpses had been pierced, stabbed, severed and muti- lated by the deadly shards.
Tony felt nauseous; he was going to be sick right then. "Tony.
A shrapnelled Joe squeaked from the mass of torn flesh ahead of him. "Holy shit . . .
Tony's legs to turned to jelly as he bent over and gagged. "Help me!" The force of the blast had destroyed the glass partitions as far as his light beam would travel.
He pointed the light into the room that exploded.
The computer equipment was in shambles, and then he saw what was left of the cleaning man.
His severed head had no recognizable features and pieces of his body were strewn about.
Tony suddenly vomited onto the river of blood that was flowing his way down the hallway. "I gotta go get help," Tony said choking.
He pushed against the wall to give him the momentum to overcome the paralysis his body felt and ran. "No, help me . . ." He ran down the halls with his flashlight waving madly.
Maybe the phone on the console. Dead.
He picked up the walkie-talkie and pushed the button. Nothing.
He banged the two way radio several times on the coun- ter in the futile hope that violence was an electronic cure-all. Dead.
Tony panicked and threw it violently into the blackness. Neither the small TV, nor his portable radio worked. * * * * * "I know it's almost midnight," Ben Shellhorne said into the cellular phone.
He cupped his other ear to hear over the commo- tion at the Stock Exchange building. "Quit your bitching.
Look at it this way; you might see dawn for the first time in your life.
All time was equal to Ben but he knew that Scott said he didn't do mornings.
Sure, I'll wait," Ben said in disgust and waited with agitation until Scott came back to the phone.
But don't forget that beer isn't just for breakfast." He craned his neck to see that the NYPD Bomb Squad had just left and gave the forensics team the go ahead.
No danger. "Listen," Ben said hurriedly.
I gotta make it quick, I'm going in for some pictures.
He paused and then said, "Yes, of course after the bodies are gone.
God, you can be gross.
I'll meet you in the lobby.
One hour." Ben Shellhorn, a denizen of the streets, reported stories that sometimes didn't fit within the all-the-news-that's-fit-to-print maxim.
Many barely bordered on the decent, but they were all well done.
For some reason, unknown even to Ben, he attracted news whose repulsiveness made them that much more magnetic to readers.
Gruesome lot we are, he thought. That's why one of his police contacts called him to say that a bunch of computer nerds were sliced to death.
His press credentials performed wonders at times.
Like getting behind police lines and not having to park ten blocks away. The police had brought in generators to power huge banks of lights to eerily light up the Stock Exchange building, all 500 feet of it.
Emergency vehicles filled the wide street, every- thing from ambulances, fire engines, riot vehicles and New York Power.
Then there were the DA's office, lawyers for the Ex- change, insurance representatives and a ton of computer people. "What the hell happened here?
Scott asked looking at the pande- monium on the cordoned off Cortland Street.
Where are all the lights?
He turned and gazed at the darkened streets and tall buildings.
Did you know a bunch of the street lights are out, too?
Scott meandered in seeming awe of the chaos. "This is one strange one," Ben said as they approached the build- ing entrance.
Let me ask you a question, you're the techno- freak." Scott scowled at him for the reference but didn't comment. "What kind of bomb stops electricity?" "Electricity?
Scott pointed at the blackened buildings and streets and Ben nodded.
Did they blow the block transformers?" "No, just a small Cemex, plastic, bomb in one computer room.
Did some damage, but left an awful lot standing.
But the death toll was high.
Eleven dead and two probably not going to make it. Plus the perp." Scott gazed around the scene.
The dark sky was pierced by the top floors of the World Trade Center, and there were lights in the next blocks.
So it's not a blackout.
And it wasn't the power grid that was hit.
A growing grin preceded Scott shaking his head side to side. "What is it?
Ben asked. "A nuke." "A nuke?" "Yeah, that's it, a nuke," Scott said excitedly.
A nuke knocks out power.
Of course." "Right," Ben said mockingly.
I can hear it now: Portion of 17th.
Floor of Exchange Devastated by Nuclear Bomb.
News at Eleven." "Never mind," Scott brushed it off.
Can we get up there?
He pointed at the ceiling.
See the place?" Ben pulled a few strings and spent a couple of hundred of Scott's dollars but succeeded in getting to the corpse-less site of the explosion.
Scott visually poked around the debris and noticed a curved porcelain remnant near his feet.
He wasn't supposed to touch, but, what was it?
And the ruby colored chunks of glass? In the few seconds they were left alone, they snapped a quick roll of film and made a polite but hasty departure.
At $200 a minute Scott hoped he would find what he was looking for. "Ben, I need these photos blown up, to say, 11 X 17?
ASAP." The press conference at 4:15 in the morning was necessary.
The Stock Exchange was not going to open Thursday.
The lobby of the Stock Exchange was aflood with TV camera lights, police and the media hoards.
We have every reason to expect that we can make a quick transition to another system." "How is that done?" "We have extensive tape vaults where we store everything from the Exchange computers daily.
We will either use one of our backup computers, or move the center to a temporary location.
We don't anticipate any delays." "What about the power problem?
A female reporter from a local TV news station asked. "Con Ed is on the job," the spokesman said, pleased they were picking on someone else.
I have every confidence they will have things up and flying soon." "What caused the power outage?" "We don't have the answer to that now." Scott edged to the front of the crowd to ask a question.
The other reporters stood open mouthed at the unexpected question. Scott spoke confidently, knowing that he was being filmed by the networks.
The spokesman nervously fumbled with some papers in his hand.
The press pool waited for the answer that had silenced the spokesman.
He stammered, "We have no . . .until power is restored a full determination of the damage cannot be made . . ." Scott pressed the point.
What would happen if the tapes were all erased?" "Uh, I, well . . ." he glanced from side to side.
On his left were two men dressed in matching dark blue suits, white shirts and sunglasses.
It is best not to speculate until we have more information." "Computer experts have said that if the tapes are erased it would take at least thirty days to recreate them and get the Exchange open again.
He was the computer expert to whom he referred.
Journalistic license. "Under the conditions," the spokesman said trying to maintain a credible visage to front for his lies, "I also have heard some wildly exaggerated estimates.
Let me assure you," the politician in him came out here. "that the Exchange will in no way renege on its fiduciary responsibilities to the world financial communi- ty.
He glanced at his watch.
I'm afraid that's all the time I have now.
We will meet here again at 9:00 A.M. for a further briefing.
He quickly exited under the protection of New York's finest as the reporters all shouted their last questions.
It never works. One of the men in the blue suits leaned over to the other and spoke quietly in his ear.
Who is that guy asking all those ques- tions?" "Isn't that the reporter the Director was talking about?" "Yeah.
He said we should keep an eye on him." * * * * * Thursday, November 5 Tokyo, Japan <<<<<<AUTOCRYPT MODE>>>>>> MR. SHAH Ahmed heard his computer announce that Homosoto was calling.
He pushed the joystick on the arm of his electric wheelchair and proceeded over to the portable computer that was outfitted with an untraceable cellular modem.
Even if the number was traced through four interstate call forwards and the original overseas link, finding him was an entirely different matter.
SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION, IMMIGRA- TION AND NATURALIZATION, AMERICAN EXPRESS, NEW YORK FEDERAL RESERVE, STATE FARM INSURANCE, FANNY MAE, CITIBANK AND FEDERAL EXPRESS. done. DO IT AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.
It was finally admitted that yes, the tapes were needed to verify all transactions, especially the computer trans- actions, and they had been destroyed along with the entire con- tents of the computer's memory and hard disks.
Wiped out. Totally. The Exchange didn't tell the press that the National Security Agency had been quietly called in to assist.
What they found did not make the NSA happy.
The tapes had in fact been totally erased.
A total unidirectional magnetic pattern. Many 'erased' tapes and disks can be recovered.
The NSA immediately called the Exchange and asked them, almost ordered them, to leave the remaining tapes where they were. In less than two hours an army of NSA technicians showed up with crates and vehicles full of equipment.
The Department of Energy was right behind with equipment suitable for radiation measure- ments and emergency responses. DOE quickly reached no conclusion.
Not enough information. Initially they had expected to find that someone had stumbled upon a way to make highly miniaturized nuclear weapons.
The men from the NSA knew they were wrong. * * * * * It took almost six weeks for the Stock Exchange to function at its previous levels.
Trading was reduced to paper and less than 10,000,000 shares daily for almost two weeks until the temporary system was expanded with staff and runners.
You and this freaking palace.
Just from looking at you, I'd expect black lights, Woodstock posters and sleeping bags.
Featured in Architectural Digest, the designers made generous use of glass brick inside and out.
The indoor pool boasted sliding glass walls and a retractable skylight ceiling which gave the impression of outdoor living, even in the midst of a harsh winter. "They're in the music room.
Scott proceeded to open a set of heavy oak double doors.
You wanna see a toy and a half?
I invented it myself." "Not another one?" groaned Tyrone.
That idiot golf machine of yours was . . ." "Capable of driving 350 yards, straight as an arrow." "And as I remember, carving up the greens pretty good.
Scott and his rolling Golf Gopher had been thrown off of several courses already. "A few modifications, that's all," laughed Scott. Scott led Tyrone through the immense family-entertainment room into a deep navy blue, white accented Euro-streamlined automated kitchen.
It was like no other kitchen he had ever seen.
Last month this had been a regular high tech kitchen of the 80's.
Now it was the Jetsons. "That's incredible . . .you invented that?" "No," dismissed Scott.
That's just a neat trick of LCD panels built into the cabinets.
He pressed an invisible switch and 4 ten inch openings appeared on the counter top near the sink.
Combination trash compacter re-cycler. Glass, plastic, aluminum, metal and paper.
Comes out by the garbage, ready to go to the center." "Lazy son of a bitch aren't you?
Tyrone laughed loudly. "Sure, I admit my idea of gardening is watching someone mow the lawn.
But this is in the name of Green.
I bet if you had one, you'd use it and Arlene would get off your ass." "No way," Tyrone objected.
My marriage is too good to screw up. It's the only thing left we still fight about, and we both like it just the way it is.
I'm old fashioned." Scott showed Tyrone how to use the kitchen and he found that no matter what he wanted, there was button for it, a hidden drawer or a disguised appliance.
An ideal time because Arlene had gone to Boston for the weekend with his daughters.
Freedom! They made it to the Music Room with their beers as the kickoff was midfield.
So how's the promotion going?
Scott asked Tyrone in half jest.
Over the last few weeks, Ty had spent most of his time in Washington and what little time was left with his family. "Promotion my ass.
It's the only way I can not get a promotion." Tyrone added somberly, "and it may be my last case." "What do you mean?
Scott asked. "It's gotten outta hand, totally out of hand.
We have to spend more time protecting the rights of the goddamned criminals than solving crimes.
That's not what it should be about.
At least not for me." "You're serious about this," Scott said rhetorically. "Hey, sooner or later I gotta call it quits," Ty replied soberly. "But this computer thing's gonna make my decision easier." "That's what I asked.
How's the promotion?" "Let's just say, more of the same but different.
Except the interagency crap is amazing.
No one commits to anything, and everything needs study and nothing gets done.
Tyrone sighed. He had been in Washington working with NIST, NSA, DoD and every other agency that thought it had a vested interest in computers and their protection.
Their coordination with CERT and ECCO was a joke, even by government standards. At the end of the first quarter, the 49'ers were holding a solid 10 point lead.
Scott grabbed a couple more beers and began tell- ing Tyrone about the incident at the Exchange.
What if I told you that it was only the computers that were attacked?
That the deaths were merely incidental?" Tyrone groaned as the 49'ers fumbled the ball.
I'd listen," he said noncommittally. "It was a classified magnetic bomb.
NSA calls them EMP-T." "Empty?
Since when does NSA design bombs?" "Listen," said Scott trying to get Ty's attention away from the TV.
Enough to blow out communications and power lines for miles.
That's one reason that silos are hardened - to keep the communications lines open to permit the President or whoever's still alive to shoot back." "Like I said," Tyrone shuddered, "pleasant thought.
He stopped suddenly at turned to Scott.
So it was a baby nuke?" "No, it was EMP-T," Scott said in such a way to annoy Ty. "Electro Magnetic Pulse Transformer.
The confusion on Tyrone's face was clear.
Ok, it's actually pretty simple.
You know what interference sounds like on the radio or looks like on a TV?" "Sure.
My cell phone snaps, crackles and pops all of the time." "Exactly.
Noise is simply electromagnetic energy that interferes with the signal.
Scott waited for Tyrone to respond that he understood so far. "Good.
Imagine a magnetic pulse so strong that it not only interferes with the signal, but overloads the electronics them- selves.
Remember that electricity and magnetism are the same force taking different forms." Tyrone shook his head and curled his mouth.
I knew that all the time.
Scott ignored him. "The EMP-T bomb is an electromagnetic explosion, very very short, only a few milliseconds, but incredibly intense.
Scott gestured to indicate the magnitude of the invisible explosion.
That was the bomb that went off at the Stock Exchange." "How can you possibly know that?
Tyrone asked with a hint of professional derision.
It can superconduct at room temperature.
And this," he handed Tyrone a piece of red glass, "is a piece of a high energy ruby laser." Tyrone turned the curios over and over in his hands.
So?" he asked. "By driving the output of the laser into a High Energy Static Capacitive Tank, the energy can be discharged into the super coil.
The instantaneous release of energy creates a magnetic field of millions of gauss.
And that's more than enough to blow out computer and phone circuits as well as erase anything magnetic within a thousand yards." Tyrone was now ignoring the football action.
He stared alternate- ly at Scott and the curious glass and ceramic remnants.
Sounds like science fiction." "But the fact is that the Stock Exchange still isn't open.
Their entire tape library is gone.
Empty, thus the name EMP-T. It empties computers.
Whoever did this has a real bad temper. Pure revenge.
They wanted to destroy the information, and not the hardware itself.
Otherwise the conventional blast would have been stronger.
At the time we thought it was a paranoid joke. Another government folly.
The EMP-T was supposed to be shot at the enemy to screw up his battlefield computers and radar and electronics before the ground troops or helo's went it.
As I understand it, EMP-T bombs are made for planes, and can also be launched from Howitzers and tanks.
According to the manufactur- er, they can't be detected and leave a similar signature to that of a conventional nuclear blast.
If there is such a thing as a conventional nuke." "Who else knows about this," Tyrone asked.
The police?" "You think the NYPD would know what to look for?
Their bomb squad went home after the plastic explosive was found." "Right.
Forget where I was." "Think about it," Scott mused out loud.
It was all part of Star Wars.
Reagan's Strategic Defense included attacking enemy satellites with EMP-T bombs. Get all of the benefits and none of the fallout from a nuke. There's no accompanying radiation." "How easy is it to put one of the empty-things together?
Tyrone missed another 49'er touchdown. "Today?
The ones I saw were big, clumsy affairs from the 70's.
With new ceramics, and such, I would assume they're a lot smaller as the Stock Exchange proves.
I bet that EMP-T is a garage project for a couple of whiz kids, or if the government orders them, a couple hundred thou each.
Scott laughed at the absurdity of competitive bid- ding for government projects.
Everyone knew the government paid more for everything.
They would do a lot better with a VISA card at K-Mart. "I think I better take a look," Tyrone hinted. "I thought you would, buddy.
Scott replied. They returned to the game 12 seconds before half time.
The only reason in his mind for the existence of the Super Bowl was to drink beer with friends and watch the commercials. "Shit," declared Tyrone.
I missed the whole damned second quar- ter.
He grabbed another beer to comfort his disappointment. "Hey," Scott called to Tyrone.
During the next half, I want to ask you something." Tyrone came back into the Music Room snickering.
What the hell is that in your bathroom?" "Isn't that great?" asked the enthused Scott.
It's an automatic toilet seat." "Now just what the devil is an automatic toilet seat?
It pulls it out and dries it off for you?
He believed that Scott was kid- ding with some of his half baked inventions.
That Scott subject- ed any of his guests to their intermittent functioning was cruel and inhuman punishment according to Tyrone. "You're married with girls.
Aren't they always on your case about the toilet seat?" "I've been married 26 years," Tyrone said with pride.
I con- quered toilet seats on our honeymoon.
She let me know right then that she was boss and what the price of noncompliance was." "Ouch, that's not fair," Scott said in sympathy.
I sleep-piss." He held his hands out in front.
That's the only side effect from too much acid.
Sleep pissing." Tyrone scrunched his face in disgust. Scott spoke rapidly and loudly.
So for those of us who forget to lower the seat after use, for those who forget to raise the seat; for those who forget to raise the lid, Auto-Shit.
Ty had tried to ignore him, but Scott's imitation of a hyperactive cable shopping network host demanded that one at least hear him out. Ty's eyes teared. "Make that woman in your life happy today.
No more mess, fuss or or morning arguments.
No more complaints from the neighbors or the health department.
The toilet that knows your needs.
The seat for the rest of us.
Available in 6 designer colors.
Only $49.95, Mastercard, VISA, No COD.
Operators are standing by." Tyrone fell over on his side laughing.
You are crazy, man. Sleep pissing.
And, if you don't know it, no one, I mean no one in his right mind has five trash compactors.
Tyrone waved his hand at Scott.
Ask me what you were gonna ask me." "Off the record, Ty," Scott started, "how're the feds viewing this mess?" Tyrone hated the position he was in, but Scott had given him a ltoe recently.
It was time to reciprocate. "Off?" "So far off, so far off that if you turned the light "On" it would still be off." "It's a fucking mess," Tyrone said quickly.
He was relieved to be able to talk about it.
I'm down there to watch a crisis management team in action, but what do I find?" He shook his head.
They're still trying to decide on the size of the conference table.
The reference caught Scott's ear. "No, it's not that bad, but it might as well be." "How is this ECCO thing put together?
No one," Tyrone chuckled as he recounted the constant battles among the represented agencies.
This is the perfect bureaucratic solution.
No one is responsible for shit, no one is accountable, but they all want to run the show.
And, no one agency clearly has authority.
It's a fucking disaster." "No one runs security?
They took their job very seriously. "Then along came NIST and IBM who developed DES.
The DOD formed the Computer Security Initiative and then the Computer Security Evaluation Center.
The DOD CSEC became the DOD Computer Security and then after NSA realized that everybody knew who they were, it became the NCSC.
As a result, NSA closed the NCSC, NIST is underbudgeted by a factor of 100 and in short, they all want a piece of a very small pie.
That took over 4 years. And that's whose fault it is. "Whose?" "Congress of course.
Congress passes the damn laws and then won't fund them.
I get stuck in the middle of third tier rival agency technocrats fighting over their turf or shirking responsibility, and well , you get the idea.
They all seem hell bent on power instead of fixing the problem.
And the scary part?" "What's that?" "It looks like it can only get worse." * * * * * Tuesday, November 11 White House Press Room "Mr. President," asked the White House correspondent for Time magazine.
A recent article in the City Times said that the military has been hiding a super weapon for years that is capable of disabling enemy computers and electronics from a great dis- tance without any physical destruction.
Is that true, sir, and has the use of those weapons contributed to the military's suc- cesses over the last few years?" "Ah, well," the President hesitated briefly.
The Stealth pro- gram was certainly a boon to our air superiority.
There is no question about that, and it was kept secret for a decade.
He stared to his left, and the press pool saw him take a visual cue from his National Security Director.
Isn't that right Henry?" Henry Kennedy nodded aggressively.
We have the best armed forces in the world, with all the advantages we can bring to bear, and I will not compromise them in any way.
But, if there is such a classified program that I was aware of, I couldn't speak of it even if I didn't know it existed.
The President picked another newsman.
Next, yes, Jim?" During the next question Henry Kennedy slipped off to the ante- room and called the Director of the National Security Agency. "Marv, how far have you gotten on this EMP-T thing?
He waited for a response.
The President is feeling embarrassed.
So the Exchange is cooperating?
How many pieces are missing?
That's not what Mason's article said.
Minus Treasury Secreatry Martin Royce, this was the President' inner circle, his personal advisory clique who assisted in making grand national policy.
Anything goes in one of these sessions, the President had made clear in the first days of his Administration. Anything. We do not take things personally here, he would say.
We have to explore all options.
Even if they are distasteful. And in these meeting, treat me like one of the guys.
The only formality of their caucuses was the President's fundamental need to mediate the sometimes heated dialogues between his most trusted aids.
They were real free-for-alls. "Henry," the President said.
Before we start, who was that reporter?
Where the hell did that question come up about the weapon stuff?" "Forget him.
The story started at the City Times.
His huge football center sized body overwhelmed the couch on which he sat. "He's been giving extensive coverage to computer crime." "Well, do we have such a bomb?" he asked with real curiosity. "Ah, yessir," Henry Kennedy responded.
It's highly classified. But the object is simple.
Lob in a few of the EMP-T bombs as they're called, shut down their communications and control, and move in during the confusion.
Very effective, sir." "Well, let's see what we can do about keeping secrets a little better.
The President's charismatic hold over even his dear friends and long time associates made him one of the most effective leaders in years.
The subject would come up again. **************************************************************** Chapter 12 Thursday, November 14 NASA Control Center, Johnson Space Center The voice of Mission Control spoke over the loudspeakers and into hundreds of headsets. THE GROUND LAUNCH SEQUENCER HAS BEEN INITIATED.
WE'RE AT T-MINUS 120 SECONDS AND COUNTING. The Space Shuttle Columbia was on Launch Pad 3, in its final preparation for another secret mission.
As was expected, the Department of Defense issued a terse non-statement on its pur- pose: "The Columbia is carrying a classified payload will be used for a series of experiments.
The flight is scheduled to last three days." In reality, and most everyone knew it, the Columbia was going to release another KH-5 spy satellite.
The KH-5 series was able, from an altitude of 110 miles, to discern and transmit to Earth photos so crisp, it could resolve the numbers on an automobile license plate.
Vehicle is now isolated from ground loading equipment." @COMPUTER T-MINUS 100 SECONDS AND COUNTING "SRB and external tank safety devices have been armed.
Inhibit remains in place until T-Minus 10 seconds when the range safety destruct system is activated." The Mission Control Room had an immense map of the world spread across its 140 feet breadth.
It showed the actual and projected trajectories of the Shuttle.
Along both sides of the map were several large rear projection video screens.
Hundreds of voices give their consent that their particular areas of responsibility are ship- shape.
The word nominal sounds to laymen watching the world over as a classic understatement.
If things are great, then say 'Fuel is Great!
NASA prefers the word Nominal to indicate that sys- tems are performing as the design engineers predicted in their simulation models. T-MINUS 50 SECONDS AND COUNTING. The hoses that connect the Shuttle to the Launch Pad began to fall away.
Whirls of steam and smoke appeared around portions of the boosters.
45 seconds to go. "SRB flight instrumentation recorders now going to record." Eyes riveted to computer screens.
It takes hundreds of computers to make a successful launch.
Columbia's forward comput- ers now taking over primary control of critical vehicle functions through lift-off." T-MINUS 30 SECONDS AND COUNTING "What the hell is that?
Mission Specialist Hawkins said to the technician who was monitoring the auto-correlation noise reduc- tion systems needed to communicate with the astronauts once in space. TWENTY NINE "What?
Sam Broadbent took off his earpiece. TWENTY EIGHT "Look at that.
Hawkins pointed at the central monitor. TWENTY SEVEN "What does that mean, it's not in the book?" TWENTY SIX "I dunno.
Hawkins switched his intercom selector to 'ALL', meaning that everyone on line, including the Mission Control Director would hear. TWENTY FIVE "We have an anomaly here . . .
Hawkins said into his mouthpiece. TWENTY FOUR "Specify anomaly, comm," The dry voice returned.
Hawkins wasn't quite sure how to respond.
The practice runs had not covered this eventuality. TWENTY THREE "Look up at Video 6.
Hawkins tried to remain unflustered. TWENTY TWO "Copy comm.
Do you contain?" TWENTY ONE "Negative Mission Control.
Hawkins answered. TWENTY - FIRING SEQUENCE NOMINAL The voice of Mission Control annoyed Hawkins for the first time in his 8 years at NASA. "Confirm and update." NINETEEN Hawkins blew his cool.
Look at the goddamned monitor for Chris- sakes.
He yelled into the intercom. EIGHTEEN "Holy . . .who's . . .please confirm, local analysis," the sober voice sounded concerned for the first time. SEVENTEEN "Confirmed anomaly.
Columbia's on board computers confirm the cut-off.
Can you verify, Columbia?" "That's a Roger." The huge block letter message continued to blaze across the monitors.
Craig Volker spoke rapidly into his master intercom system.
All TV networks suddenly lost their signal that was routed through NASA's huge video switches.
NASA's own satellite feed was simul- taneously cut as well.
If NASA didn't want it going to the public it didn't get sent. CNN got the first interview with NASA officials. "What caused today's flight to be aborted?" "We detected a slight leak in the fuel tanks.
When we know more we will make further informa- tion available.
The NASA spokesman left abruptly. The CNN newsman continued.
According to NASA, a malfunctioning fuel monitor was the cause of today's aborted shuttle launch. However, several seconds before the announced abort, our video signal was cut by NASA.
Here is a replay of that countdown again." CNN technicians replayed one of their video tapes.
The video monitors within Mission Control were not clear on the replay.
Look at the goddamned monitor for Chrissakes. Just look.
Then the video went dead. * * * * * Steve Billings received an urgent message on his computer's E- Mail when he got home from classes.
All it said was PHONE HOME He dialed NEMO directly this time. <<<<<<CONNECTION>>>>>> He chose CONVERSATION PIT from the menu.
La Creme was there, alone and probably waiting. What's the panic? YOU DON'T KNOW? <<CREME>> Just finished exams . . .been locked up in student hell . . . NASA ABORT . . .SHUTTLE WENT TO SHIT. <<CREME>> So?
More Beckel fuel problems I s'pose. UH . . .UH.
NASA GOT AN INVITATION. <<CREME>> From aliens?
SETI finally came through? NOPE.
FROM CHRISTA MCAULIFFE. <<CREME>> Right. SERIOUS.
SHE WELCOMED THE CREW OF COLUMBIA. <<CREME>> Get real . . . I AM. CHECK OUT CNN.
ABORTED THE DAMN MISSION. <<CREME>> I don't get it. NEITHER DO I.
BUT, DON'T YOU PLAY AROUND IN NASA COMPUTERS? <<CREME>> Sure I do.
I'm not alone. AND REPROGRAM THE LAUNCH COMPUTERS? <<CREME>> Never.
It's against the Code. I KNOW THAT, BUT DO YOU? <<CREME>> What are getting at? OK GOOD BUDDY . . .STRAIGHT SHOOTING.
DID YOU GO IN AND PUT SOME MESSAGES ON MISSION CONTROL COMPUTERS? <<CREME>> Fuck, no. You know better than that. I HOPED YOU'D SAY THAT. <<CREME>> Hey . . .thanks for the vote of confidence. NO OFFENSE DUDE.
THEN IF YOU DIDN'T WHO DID? <<CREME>> I don't know.
That's sick. NO SHIT SHERLOCK.
WE MAY HAVE TO LOCK IT UP. Damn.
Better get clean. YOU LEAVE TRACKS? Nah.
They're security is for shit.
Besides, I get in as SYSOP.
I can erase my own tracks. BETTER BE SURE. I'm not going back, not for a while. THERE'S GONNA BE SOME SERIOUS HEAT ON THIS. Can't blame 'em.
I'm clean, really. BELIEVE YOU GUY.
Delays in the troubled shuttle program are nothing new.
But since the Apollo fire and the Challenger disaster, and an all too wide array of constant technical problems, political will is waning.
The entire space program suffers as a result. Yesterday's aborted launch echoes of further bungling.
While the management of NASA is undergoing critical review, and executive replacements seem imminent, the new breed will have to live with past mistakes for some time.
Unfortunately, most Americans no longer watch space launches, and those that do tune out once the astronauts are out of camera range.
In a prepared statement, NASA blamed the aborted flight on yet another leak from the massive and explo- sive 355,000 gallon fuel tanks.
In what will clearly become another public relations fiasco, NASA lied to us again.
It appears that NASA's computers were invaded. CNN cooped the other three networks by applying advanced digital reconstruction to a few frames of video.
Before NASA cut the feed, CNN was receiving pictures of the monitor walls from Mis- sion Control in Houston, Texas.
After con- fronted with the undisputed evidence that CNN presented to NASA officials within hours of the attempted launch, the following statement was issued: "The Space Shuttle Columbia flight performing a military mission, was aborted 5 seconds prior to lift-off.
First reports indicated that the reason was a minor leak in a fuel line.
Subsequent analysis showed, though, that the Side Band Communications Moni- toring System displayed remote entry anomalies inconsistent with program launch sequence.
Their sickening message was a distinct threat to the safety of the mission and its crew.
So, rather than an automat- ic systems shut-down, as the CNN tape so aptly demonstrates, a vigilant technician shouted, "Look at the g_______ed monitor for Chrissakes!
Just look!" While the NASA computers failed to notice that they had been invaded from an outside source, their able staff prevented what could have been another national tragedy.
There are laws that have been broken.
This computer assault needs to be addressed immediate- ly.
Not only must the hacker responsible for this travesty be caught, but NASA must also explain how their computers can be compromised so easily.
The voice was serious, but did not resonate as did the distinctive voice that belonged to William Shatner.
Scott laughed into the phone. "Live long and prosper.
Mason replied in an emotionless voice. "I need to talk to you," the voice came right back. "So talk.
Scott was used to anonymous callers so he kept the rhythm of the conversation going. "You have it all wrong.
The voice was earnest. "What are you talking about?
Scott asked innocuously. "Your articles keep saying that hackers cause all the trouble on computers.
Scott decided to play along. "Says me.
You obviously don't know about the Code." "What code?
This was getting nowhere fast. "Listen, I know your phone is tapped, so I only have another few seconds.
Do you want to talk?" "Tapped?
What is this all about?
The annoyance was clear in Scott's voice. "You keep blaming everything on hackers.
Scott gave this phone call another 10 seconds. "I've been inside the NASA computers." That got Scott to wake up from the droll papers on his desk. "Are you telling me you wrote the message . . .?
Scott could not contain his incredulity. "God, no." Captain Kirk was firm.
Do you have a modem?
At home?" "Yeah, so what.
Scott gave the caller only another 5 seconds. "What's the number?" "Is this love or hate?
Time's up thought Scott. "News." "What?" "News.
Do I talk to you or the National Expos<130>?
I figured you might be a safer bet.
The voice who called himself Captain Kirk gave away nothing but the competitive threat was effective. "No contest.
Scott paid atten- tion. "What's the number?" the voice demanded.
Scott gave his home modem number. "Be on at midnight.
The line went dead. Scott briefly mentioned the matter to his editor, Doug, who in turn gave him a very hard time about it.
I thought you said virus hacker connection was a big ho-hum.
As I recall, you said they weren't sexy enough?
What happened?" "Eating crow can be considered a delicacy if the main course is phenomonal." "I see," laughed Doug.
Creative way out, he thought. "He said he'd been plowing around NASA computers," Scott argued. "Listen, ask your buddy Ben how many crackpots admit to crimes just for the attention.
Doug was too jaded, thought Scott. "No, no, it's legit," Scott said defensively.
Sounds like a hacker conspiracy to me." "Legit?
Your last column just about called for all computer junkies to be castrated and drawn and quartered before they are hung at the stake.
And now you think an anonymous caller who claims to be a hacker, is for real?
You can't have it both ways.
Sometimes your conspiracies are bit far fetched . . ." "And when we hit, it sells papers.
Scott reminded his boss that it was still a business. Nonetheless, Doug made a point that hit home with Scott.
Could he both malign computer nerds as sub-human and then expect to derive a decent story from one of them?
There was an inconsist- ency there.
Even so, some pretty despicable characters have turned state's evidence and made decent witnesses against their former cohorts.
Had Captain Kirk really been where no man had been before? "You don't care if I dig a little?
Scott backed off and played the humble reporter. "It's your life.
That was Doug's way of saying, "I told you there was a story here.
His study could by all standards be declared a disaster area, which his ex- wife Maggie often did.
In addition to the formal desk, 3 folding tables were piled high with newspapers, loose clippings, books, scattered notes, folders, magazines, and crumpled up paper balls on the floor.
The maid had refused to clean the room for 6 months since he blamed her for disposing of important notes that he had filed on the floor.
They were back on good terms, he had apologized, but his study was a no-man's, or no maid's land. Scott battled to clear a place for his beer as his computer booted up.
Since he primarily used his computer for writing, it wasn't terribly powerful by today's standards.
A mere 386SX running at 20 megahertz and comparatively low resolution VGA color graphics.
It was all he needed.
He had a modem in it to connect to the paper's computer.
This way he could leave the office early, write his articles or columns at home and still have them in by deadline.
He had seemed paranoid when he called this afternoon.
Where did he ever get that idea?
Why wouldn't his phone at home be tapped if the ones at work were?
We'll see. Scott turned the old 9" color television on the corner of the desk to Nightline.
Enough to occupy him even if Kirk didn't call. He set the ComPro communications program to Auto-Answer.
So he retyped in his earlier greeting. Hello.
Again. IS THIS YOUR FIRST TIME? What a question!
Scott answered quickly. Please be gentle. NO . . .AT CHATTING ON COMPUTER . . . I call the computer at work.
First time with a stranger.
Is it safe? Scott had a gestalt realization.
He didn't talk to the paper's computer.
He treated it as an electronic mailbox. But this, there was an attractiveness to the anonymity behind the game.
Even if this Kirk was a flaming asshole, he might have discovered a new form of entertainment. VERY GOOD.
YOU'RE QUICK. Not too quick, sweetheart. IS THIS REALLY SCOTT MASON? Yes. PROVE IT. Kirk, or whoever this was, was comfortable with anonymity, obvi- ously.
Sure, play the game. You screwed up the NASA launch. I DID NOT!!!!!!!!!!
OK, IT'S YOU. Glad to know it. YOU GOT IT ALL WRONG. What do I have wrong? ABOUT HACKERS.
I HOPE YOU'RE A GOOD GUY. You called me, remember? STILL, IT'S NOT LIKE YOU THINK. Sure, I think. NO NO NO . . .HACKERS.
WE'RE BASICALLY A GOOD LOT WHO ENJOY COMPUTERS FOR COMPUTERS SAKE. That's what I've been saying REALLY.
HEY, DO YOU KNOW WHAT A HACKER REALLY IS? A guy who pokes his nose around where it's not wanted.
Like in NASA computers. YEAH, THAT'S WHAT THE PRESS SAYS AND SO THAT'S WHAT THE COUNTRY THINKS.
BUT IT'S NOT NECESSARILY SO. So, change my mind. LET ME GIVE YOU THE NAMES OF A FEW HACKERS.
GET THE POINT? You still haven't told me what you think a hacker is. A HACKER IS SOMEONE WHO HACKS WITH COMPUTERS.
AND WHAT DO YOU CALL SOMEONE WHO FLIES AIRPLANES FOR FUN? A fly boy, space jockey. A CAR TINKERER? A grease monkey AND SOMEONE WHO JUMPS OUT OF PLANES? Fucking crazy!!!! FAIR ENOUGH.
THAT'S IT, PURE AND SIMPLE. Ok, let's accept that for now.
What about those stories of hackers running around inside of everybody else's computers and making computer viruses and all.
Morris and Chase were hackers who caused a bunch of damage. WHOA!
AND I AM PROUD TO ADMIT THAT I AM ONE OF THEM. Wait a minute.
THAT'S KINDA WHAT HACK- ERS DO. Why?
For the thrill? OH, I GUESS THAT MAY BE PART OF IT, BUT IT'S REALLY MORE THAN THAT.
IT'S A THIRST, AT LEAST FOR ME, FOR KNOWLEDGE. That's a line of crap. REALLY.
I BET YOU DIDN'T KNOW THAT. You made that up. CHECK IT OUT.
EVEN IF HE DOES NOTHING BUT DRIVE IT AROUND THE BLOCK. BUT WITH COMPUTERS IT'S DIFFERENT. How is it different? FIRST THERE'S NO THEFT. What about theft of service? ARGUABLE. Breaking and entering. NOT ACCORDING TO MY FRIEND.
HIS FATHER IS A LAWYER. But, you have to admit, you are doing it without permission. NO, NOT REALLY. Aw, come on. LISTEN.
LET'S SAY THAT YOU LIVE IN A HOUSE. Nice place to make a home. AND LET'S SAY THAT YOU AND YOUR NEIGHBORS DECIDE TO LEAVE THE KEYS TO YOUR HOUSES ON THE CURB OF YOUR STREET EVERY DAY.
SO THAT ANYONE WHO COMES ALONG CAN PICK UP THE KEYS AND WALK INTO YOUR HOUSE ANYTIME THEY WANT TO. That's crazy. OF COURSE IT IS.
So what? THAT'S WHAT I DO.
WHEN WE FIND A SET OF KEYS, WE USE THEM. It can't be that simple.
No one would leave keys lying around for hackers. WRONGO MEDIA BREATH.
IF YOU DON'T WANT ME IN YOUR COMPUTER, THEN DON'T LEAVE THE FRONT DOOR OPEN. If what you're saying is true . . . IT IS.
SO I USED THEM TO HAVE A LOOK AROUND. I don't know if I buy this.
But, for now, I'll put that aside. So, where do these hacker horrors come from? AGAIN LET'S COMPARE.
EVERY SINGLE ONE. That's impossible. TRY ME.
AT LEAST I'M HONEST. Why should I believe that? WE'RE TALKING AREN'T WE. Throw me off the track. I COULD HAVE IGNORED YOU.
I'M UNTRACEABLE. By the way, what's your name. CAPTAIN KIRK. No, really. REALLY.
ON BBS THAT'S MY ONLY NAME. How can I call you? YOU CAN'T.
Never had one. YOU NEED ONE DUDE.
WITHOUT IT YOU'RE A JUST A REPORTER NERD. Been called worse.
That's what I'm doing. CAN'T.
TRY AGAIN. What do you mean we? WE.
REPO MAN. repo man REPORTER MAN.
SUSPICIOUS TOO. I suspect that hackers are up to no good. OK, SOME ARE, BUT THEY'RE THE EXCEPTION.
BUT, MASS MURDERERS ARE NEWS. SO ALL YOU NEWS FIENDS MAKE HEADLINES ON DEATH AND DESTRUCTION. THE MEDIA SELLS THE HYPE AND YOU CAN'T DENY IT. Got me.
You're right, that's what the public buys.
But not all news is bad. EXACTLY.
SEE THE POINT? At least we don't do the crime, just report it.
I suppose hackers are innocent of that too. BY AND LARGE YES.
VIRUSES ARE DANGEROUS AND DEMENT- ED. NO HACKER OF THE CODE WOULD DO THAT. You keep mentioning this code.
What is the code? IT'S A CODE OF ETHICS THAT MOST OF US LIVE BY.
IT GOES LIKE THIS: NEVER INTENTIONALLY DAMAGE ANOTHER COMPUTER. That's it? PRETTY SIMPLE HUH? So, you said earlier that you poke around NASA computers.
And NASA just had a pretty good glitch that rings of hackers.
Some- one broke the code. EXACTLY.
BUT NO ONE'S TAKING CREDIT. Why would they?
Isn't that a sure giveaway and a trip up the river? YES AND NO. MORRIS FOR EXAMPLE ADMITTED HIS MISTAKE.
PROVING HE DID IT IS NEXT TO IMPOSSIBLE. So? SO, HACKERS HAVE STRONG EGOS.
Who are you? I DIDN'T DO IT AND I'M NOT GOING TO TELL YOU WHO I AM. YOU SEE, MOST OF US DON'T KNOW EACH OTHER THAN OVER THE COMPUTER.
IT JUST DON'T MATTER WHO I AM. I don't know if I buy everything you say, but it is something to think about.
So what about the NASA thing. I DON'T KNOW.
NOBODY DOES. You mean, I gather, nobody has owned up to it. EXACTLY How can I describe you?
MIGHT BE BAD FOR MY HEALTH. What time is it? WON'T WORK GUY.
IF YOU'RE INTERESTED, I CAN ARRANGE A TRIP THOUGH THE FIRST TRUST BANK COMPUTERS, Arrange a trip?
Travel agent on the side. IN A WAY WE ARE ALL TRAVEL AGENTS.
JUST THOUGHT YOU MIGHT BE INTERESTED. Let's say I am. JUST CALL 212-555-9796.
LEAVE YOUR COMPUTER ON. <<<<<<CONNECTION TERMINATED>>>>>> **************************************************************** Chapter 13 Wednesday, November 25 HACKERS HAMPER HOLIDAY HELLO'S By Scott Mason As most of my readers know by now, I have an inherent suspicion of lame excuses for bureaucratic bungling.
If any of you were unable to make a long distance phone call yesterday, you weren't alone. AT&T, the long distance carrier that provides the best telephone service in the world, handles in excess of 100,000,000 calls daily.
Yesterday, less than 25% got through.
According to insiders, AT&T came close to declaring a national emergency and asking for Federal assistance. Airlines and hotel reservation services reported that phone traffic was down between 65-90%!
The LEC handles all local calls within certain dial- ing ranges.
A long distance call is switched by the LEC to the 4ESS, a miracle of modern communications.
There are 114 Number 4 and 5 Electronic Switching Systems used in all major AT&T switch- ing offices across the country. (A few rural areas still use relays and mechanical switches over 40 years old.
When it rains, the relays get sticky and so does the call.) Now here's the invisible beauty.
There are 14 direct connects between each of the 114 4ESS's and every other 4ESS, each capable of handling thousands of call at once.
So, rarely do we ever get a long distance busy signal.
The systems automatically reroute themselves. The 4ESS then calls its own STP, Signal Transfer Point within an SS7 network.
The SS7 is so powerful it can actually create up to 7 additional virtual paths for the heaviest traffic.
800 numbers, Dial a Porn 900 numbers and other specially coded phone numbers are translated through the NCP( Network Control Point) and routed separately.
So have I. The point is, massive computer switches all across our nations automatically select the routing for each call.
A call from Miami to New York could be sent through 4ESS's in Dallas, Los Angeles and Chicago before reaching its ultimate destination. But what happened yesterday? It seems that the switches got real stupid and slowed down.
From all appearances, a faulty piece of software in the SS7 networks was the culprit. Our engineers are studying the problem and expect a solution shortly.
Was yesterday a sym- bolic choice of dates for disaster or mere coincidence?
Would the damage have been greater on a busier business day?
Could it affect our defense systems and the government's ability to commu- nicate in case of emergency?
How did someone, or some group, get into AT&T's computers and effect an entire nation's ability to do business?
Tomorrow; is Big Brother listening? * * * * * Friday, November 27 Times Square, New York The pre-winter overnight snow-storm in New York City turned to sleet and ice as the temperature dropped.
That didn't stop the traffic though.
Hundreds of thousands of cars still crawled into Manhattan to insure downtown gridlock.
If the streets were drivable, the city wouldn't stop.
The van continued to slide to the right as it careened toward the sidewalk.
The van rotated and headed backwards at the throngs of pedestrians.
They didn't notice until it was too late. The van spun around again and crashed through a McDonald's window into the dense breakfast crowds.
As it crushed several patrons into the counter, the van stopped, suddenly propelling the driver through the windshield into the side of the yogurt machine.
His neck was broken instantly. Getting emergency vehicles to Times Square during the A.M. rush hour is in itself a lesson in futility.
Executives in 3 piece suits worked with 7th avenue delivery boys in harmony.
Secre- taries lay their expensive furs on the slushy street as pallets for the victims. It was over two hours before all the wounded were transferred to local hospitals and the morgue was close to finishing its clean up efforts.
Precinct, Midtown South NYPD made it to the scene as the more grisly pieces were put away.
He spoke to a couple of officers who had interviewed witnesses and survivors.
The media were already there adding to the frigid chaos.
Two of the local New York TV stations were broadcasting live, searching out sound-bytes for the evening news and all 3 dailies had reporters looking for quotable quotes.
Out of the necessity created by such disasters, the police had developed immunity to the media circus. "That's it lieutenant.
Seems the van made a screwball turn and lost control.
The young clean-shaven patrolman shrugged his shoulders.
Only 27, he had still been on the streets long enough not to let much bother him. "Who's the driver?
Lt. Kavitz scanned the scene. "It's a foreign national, one . . .ah . . .Jesef Mumballa.
Second year engineering student at Columbia.
The young cop looked down and spoke quietly.
He didn't make it." "I'm not surprised.
The Lieutenant took it in stride.
Kavitz asked half suspecting, half hoping. "Clean.
As clean as rag head can be." "Ok, that's enough.
What about the van?" "The van?" "The van!
Kavitz said pointedly at the patrolman.
The van! What's in it?
Has anybody looked?" "Uh . . .no sir.
We've been working with the injured . . .I'm sure you . . ." "Of course.
Kavitz waved off the explanation.
Must have been pretty rough.
He looked around and shook his head. "Anything else officer?" "No sir, that's about it.
We still don't have an exact count though." "It'll come soon enough.
Kavitz left the young patrolman and walked into the bloodbath, pausing only briefly before opening the driver's side door.
Let's see what's in this thing." * * * * * "D'y'hear about the mess over at Times Square?
Ben Shellhorne walked up to Scott Mason's desk at the City Times. "Yeah, pretty gruesome.
The Exchange . . .McDonald's.
You really scrape the bottom, don't you?
Scott grinned devilishly at Ben. "Maybe some guys do, not me.
Ben sat down next to Scott's desk. "But that's not the point.
There's something else." "What's that?
Scott turned to Ben. "The van." "The van?
Scott asked. "Yeah, the van.
The van that busted up the McBreakfast crowd." "What about it?" Ben hurried.
Well, it was some sort of high tech lab on wheels. Computers and radios and stuff.
Pretty wild." "Why's that so unusual?
Phone company, computer repair place, EPA monitors, could be anything.
Scott seemed disinterested. "If that were true, you're right.
But this was a private van, and there's no indication of what company it worked for.
No company, no numbers, no nothing, except this." He handed a sheaf of computer printouts to Scott.
Look familiar?" Scott took the papers and perused them.
They were the same kind that Scott had received from Vito, his unknown donor.
These were new documents as far as Scott could tell - he didn't recognize them as part of his library.
They only contained some stock tips and insider trading information from a leading Wall Street bro- kerage house.
Pretty tame stuff. "These," Scott pointed at the papers, "these were in the van?" "That's what I said," Ben said triumphantly. "How did you get them?
Scott pushed. "I have a few friends on the force and, well, this is my beat you know.
Crime, disaster, murder, violence, crisis, death and de- struction on the streets.
Good promo stuff for the Big Apple." "Are there any more?
Scott ignored Ben's self pity. "My guy said there were so many that a few wouldn't make any difference." "Holy Christ!
Scott said aloud as he sat back in thought. "What is it?
Does this mean something?" "Can I have these, Ben?
Do you need them?" "Nah!
There's no blood on 'em?
I just remembered that secret papers and computers are your thing, so they're yours.
Just remember, next time you hear about a serial killer, it's mine." "Deal.
And, hey, thanks a lot.
Scott caught Ben before he left.
Ben, one more thing." "Yeah?
Ben stopped. "Can you get me into that van.
Not to touch, just to look?
Scott would have given himself a vasectomy with a weed eater to have a look.
This was his first solid lead on the source of the mysterious and valuable documents that he had stymied him for so long.
He had been unable to publish anything significant due to lack of confirming evidence.
Any lead was good lead, he thought. "It may cost another favor, but sure what the fuck.
Ben waved as he walked off leaving Scott to ponder the latest developments. * * * * * The interior of the dark blue Ford Econoline van was not in bad shape since the equipment was bolted into place.
The exterior though was thoroughly trashed, with too many blood stains for Scott to stomach.
He wanted to take mental pictures and get as much detail as he could.
Both sides of the van contained steel shelving, with an array of equipment bolted firmly in place.
It was an odd assortment of electronics, noticed Scott.
There were 2 IBM personal computers with large WYSIWYG monitors.
What You See Is What You Get moni- tors were generally used for intensive word processing or desktop publishing.
Odd. A digital oscilloscope and waveform monitor were stacked over one of the computers.
Test equipment and no hand tools?
No answer. Over the other computer sat a small black and white television and a larger color television monitor.
Two cellular phones were mounted behind the drivers seat.
Then he noticed what appeared to be a miniature satellite dish, only 8 or so inches across.
He recognized it as a parabolic microphone. Aha!
Some sort of spy type surveillance vehicle. Tracking drug dealers and assorted low lifes.
But, a privately registered vehicle, no sign of any official affiliations to known enforcement agencies? Scott felt his minute was gone in a only few seconds. "Well, you find what you're looking for?
Ben asked Scott after they had left the police garage grounds overlooking the Hudson River. Scott looked puzzled.
It's more like by not finding anything I eliminated what it's not." Ben scowled.
Hey riddle man, back to earth.
Was it a waste or what?" "Far from it.
Scott's far away glaze disappeared as his personal Eureka! set in. "I think I may have stumbled, sorry, you, stum- bled onto to something that will begin to put several pieces in place for me.
And if I'm right, even a little bit right, holy shit.
I mean, hoooolly shit." "Clue me in, man.
You got Pulitzer eyes." Ben tried to keep up with Scott as their pace quickened. "I gotta make one phone call, for a confirmation.
And, if it's a yes, then I got, I mean we got one fuckuva story." "No, it's yours man, yours.
Just let me keep the blood and guts. Besides, I don't even know what you're talking about, you ain't said shit.
Just keep your promise on the drinks.
Ok?" Scott arrived at Grand Central as the huge clock oppose the giant Kodak photograph struck four o'clock.
He proceeded to track twenty two where the four-thirteen to Scarsdale and White Plains was waiting.
He walked down to the third car and took a seat that would only hold two.
He was saving it for Ty. Tyrone Duncan hopped on the crowded train seconds before it left the station.
He dashed down the aisle of the crowded car.
There was only one empty seat.
Scott's rushed call gave Ty an excuse to leave work early.
It had been one of those days.
Ty collapsed in a sweat on the seat next to Scott. "Didn't your mother tell you it's not polite to keep people waiting?
Scott made fun of Tyrone. "Didn't your mama tell you not to irritate crazy overworked black dudes who carry a gun?" Scott took the hint.
It was safest to ignore Ty's diatribe completely.
I think I got it figured out.
Thought you might be interested.
Scott teased Duncan. Tyrone turned his head away from Scott.
If you do, I'll kiss your bare ass on Broadway.
He sounded disgusted with the performance of his bureau. Scott puffed up a bit before answering.
The pride did not go unnoticed by Duncan.
I figured out how these guys, these black- mailers, whoever they are, get their information.
Scott paused for effect which was not lost on Duncan. "I don't care anymore.
I've been pulled from the case," Tyrone said sounding exhausted. "Well," Scott smirked.
I think you just might care, anyway." Tyrone felt himself Scott putting him into a trap.
What have you got?" Scott relished the moment.
The answer was so simple.
He saw the anticipation in Tyrone's face, but they had become friends and didn't feel right about prolonging the tension.
Van Eck." Duncan was expecting more than a two word answer that was abso- lutely meaningless to him.
He said referring to the New York Expressway that had been a 14 mile line traffic jam since it opened some 40 years ago. "Not Van Wyck, Van Eck.
That's how they get the information." Duncan was no engineer, and he knew that Scott was proficient in the discipline.
He was sure he had an education coming.
For us feeble minded simpletons, would you mind explaining?
I know about Van Allen radiation belts, nuclear radiation . . .but ok, I give.
What's this Van Eck?" Scott had not meant to humble Tyrone that much.
It's a pretty arcane branch of engineering, even for techy types.
How much do you know about computers?
Electronics?" "Enough to get into trouble.
I can wire a stereo and I know how to use the computers at the Bureau, but that's about it.
Never bothered to get inside those monsters.
Consider me an idiot." "Never, just a novice.
Computers, I mean PC's, the kind on your desk and at home are electronic devices, that's no great revelation.
As you may know, radio waves are caused by the motion of electrons, current, down a wire.
Ever heard or seen interference on your TV?" "Sure.
We've been down this road before, with your EMP-T bombs." Tyrone cringed at the lecture he had received on secret defense projects. "Exactly.
Interference is caused by other electrical devices that are running near the radio or TV.
Essentially, everything that runs on electricity emanates a field of energy, an electro- magnetic field.
Well, in TV and radio, an antenna is stuck up in the air to pick up or 'hear' the radio waves.
You simply tune it in to the frequency you want to listen to." "I know, like on my car radio.
Those are preset, though." "Doesn't matter.
They still pick the frequency you want to listen to.
Can you just hold that thought and accept it at face value?
Scott followed his old teaching techniques.
He wanted to make sure that each and every step of his explanation was clearly understood before going on to the next.
Tyrone acknowl- edged that while he wasn't an electronic engineer, he wasn't stupid either. "Good.
Well computers are the same.
They radiate an electromag- netic field when they're in use.
If the power is off then there's no radiation.
Inside the computer there are so many radiated fields that it looks like garbage, pure noise to an antenna.
Filtering out the information is a bitch.
But, you can easily tune into a monitor." "Monitors.
Tyrone wanted to clarify his understanding. "Monitors, CRT's, screens, cathode ray tubes, whatever you want to call them.
The inside of most monitors is just like televi- sion sets.
There is an electron beam that writes to the surface of the screen, the phosphor coated one.
That's what makes the picture." "That's how a TV works?
Duncan was only half kidding. "So, the phosphor coating gets hit with a strong electron beam, full of high voltage energy, and the phosphor glows, just for a few milliseconds.
Then, the beam comes around again and either turns it on or leaves it off, depending upon what the picture is supposed to show.
Make sense?" "That's why you can go frame to frame on a VCR, isn't it?
Every second there are actually lots of still pictures that change so quickly that the eye is fooled into thinking it's watching mo- tion.
Really, it's a whole set of photographed being flipped through quickly.
Duncan picked up the essentials on the first pass.
Scott was visibly impressed. "Bingo!
So this beam is directed around the surface of the screen about 60 times every second." "What moves the beam?
Duncan was following closely. "You are one perceptive pain in the butt, aren't you?
You nailed it right on the head.
Scott enjoyed working with bright stu- dents.
Duncan's smile made his pudgy face appear larger than it was.
Inside the monitor are what is called deflection coils. Deflection coils are magnets that tell the beam where to strike the screen's surface.
One magnet moves the beam horizontally across the screen from left to right, and the other magnet, the vertical one, moves the beam from the top to the bottom.
Same way as in a TV.
Scott paused for a moment.
He had given simi- lar descriptions before, and he found it useful to let is audi- ence have time to create a mental image. "Sure, that makes sense.
So what about this radiation?
He wanted to understand the full picture. "Well, magnets concentrate lots of electrical energy in a small place, so they create more intense, or stronger magnetic fields. Electromagnetic radiation if you will.
In this case, the radia- tion from a computer monitor is called Van Eck radiation, named after the Dutch electrical engineer who described the phenomena." Scott sounded pleased with his Radiation 101 course brief. Tyrone wasn't satisfied though.
So how does that explain the blackmail and the infamous papers you have?
And why do I care?
The confused look on Tyrone's face told Scott he hadn't successfully tutored his FBI friend. "It's just like a radio station.
He whistled quietly to himself. "How did you find out?
Where did you . . .?
The questions spewed forth. "There was a wreak, midtown, and there was a bunch of equipment in it.
Then I checked it out with a couple of . . .engineer friends who are more up on this than I am. They confirmed it." "This stuff was in a van?
How far away does this stuff work?" Duncan gave away his concern. "According to my sources, with the proper gear, two or three miles is not unreasonable.
In New York, maybe only a half a mile.
Interference and steel buildings and all.
Manhattan is a magnetic sewer, as they say." "Shit, this could explain a lot.
The confident persona of the FBI professional returned.
The marks all claim that there was no way for the information to get out, yet it did.
Scott, is it possible that . . .how could one person get all this stuff?
The pointed question was one of devil's advocacy. "That's the scary part, if I'm right.
But this is where I need your help.
Scott had given his part, now to complete the tale he needed the cooperation of his friend.
The story was improv- ing. "Jesus," Duncan said quietly contemplating the implications. "Most people believe that their computers are private.
It makes me wonder who's been listening in on our computers all these years.
Maybe that's why our jobs seem to get tougher every day.
Duncan snapped himself back from the mental digression.
Where do you go from here?" Scott was prepared.
He had a final bombshell to lay on Duncan before specifying his request.
There are a couple of things that make me think.
First, there is no way that only one guy could put together the amount of information that I have.
I've told you how much there is.
From all over the country.
That suggests a lot more than one person involved.
I don't know how many, that's your job. "Two, these blackmail threats.
Obviously whoever is reading the computers, Van Ecking them is what I call it, has been sending the information to someone else.
Then they, in turn, call up their targets and let them know that their secrets are no longer so secret.
Then three, they have been probably sending the information to other people, on paper.
Like me and the National Expose.
I have no idea if any others are receiving similar packages.
What I see here, is a coordinated effort to . . ." Scott held Tyrone's complete attention. "You still haven't told me what you need.
For an operation that's this large, there would have to be a back up, a contingency . . ." The excitement oozed from Scott as his voice got louder. "Shhhh . . .
I don't go for conspiracy theories, I never have.
Right now all we have is raw, uncorrelated data.
Just circumstantial events that may have nothing to do with each other . . ." "Bullshit.
Scott opened up his briefcase and handed a file folder to Tyrone. "What is it?
Looks like a news story, that . . .uh . . .you wrote and, it's about some mergers.
What does this have to do with anything?" "This.
Yes, I wrote the story.
It hasn't been printed yet.
Scott took the folder back.
I found this copy in the van that was wrecked two days ago.
It was Van Eck'ed from my computer the day I wrote it.
They've been watching me and my computer." "Now wait a second.
There are a hundred possible answers.
You could have lost a copy or someone got it from your wastebasket." Duncan wasn't convincing either to himself or to Scott.
Scott smirked as Tyrone tried to justify the unbelievable. "You want to play?
Scott asked. "I think I'd better.
If this is for real, no one has any priva- cy anymore." "I know I don't." **************************************************************** Chapter 14 Sunday, November 29 Columbia University, New York The New York City Times had put the story on the 7th page.
In contrast, the New York Post, in Murdoch's infinite wisdom, had put pictures of the dead and dying on the front page.
With the McDonalds' window prominent. Ahmed Shah reacted with pure intellectual detachment to the deba- cle on Seventh Avenue and 42nd Street.
Jesef was a martyr, as much of one as those who had sacrificed their lives in the Great War against Iraq.
He had to make a report.
He was accustomed to the delay.
While waiting he lit up a Marlboro.
It was the only American cigarette that came close to the vile taste of Turkish camel shit cigarettes that he had smoked before coming to the United States.
I have some news. NEWS? We have a slight problem, but nothing serious. PROBLEM?
PLEASE EXPLAIN. One of the readers is gone. HOW?
CAPTURED? No, the Americans aren't that smart.
He died in a car crash. WILL THIS HURT US? No. In New York we have another 11 readers.
But we have lost one vehicle.
The police must have it. THAT IS NOT GOOD.
WHO WAS IT? A martyr. CAN THE POLICE FIND ANYTHING? He had false identification.
They will learn nothing. BE SURE THEY DON'T.
DESTROY THE CAR. They can learn nothing.
Why? IT IS TOO EARLY FOR THEM TO FIND OUT ABOUT US. HOW LONG HAS IT BEEN? I read about it today.
The crash was yesterday. DO ANY OF THE OTHERS KNOW? It would not matter if they did.
They are loyal. The papers said nothing of the van.
They cared only about the Americans who died eating their breakfasts. GOOD.
REPLACE HIM. It will be done. <<<<<<CONNECTION TERMINATED>> * * * * * Monday, November 30 New York City The fire at the New York City Police Impound on 22nd Street and the Hudson River was not newsworthy.
It caused, however, a deluge of paperwork for the Sergeant whose job it was to guard the confiscated vehicles.
Most of those cars damaged in the firestorm had been towed for parking infractions.
It would cost the city tens of thousands of dollars, but not at least for three or four months.
The city would take as long as possible to proc- ess the claims.
Jesef Mumballa's vehicle was completely destroyed as per Homosoto's order.
The explosion that had caused the fire was identified as coming from his van, but little importance was placed with that obscure fact. Ben Shellhorne noticed, though.
Wasn't that the van that Scott Mason had shown such interest in yesterday?
A car bombing, even if on police property was not a particularly interesting story, at least in New York.
But Ben wanted the drink that Scott had promised.
Maybe he could parlay it into two. "Scott, remember that van?
Ben called Scott on the internal office phones. "Yeah, what about it?" "It's gone." "What do you mean gone?" "Somebody blew it up.
Took half the cars in the impound with it. Sounds like Cemex.
Just thought you might care.
You were pretty hot about seeing it .
He decided to play it cool. "Yeah, thanks for the call.
Looks like another lead down the tubes." "Know whatcha mean." Scott called Tyrone at his office. "4543.
Duncan answered obliquely. "Just an anonymous call.
Scott didn't disguise his voice.
The message would be obvious. "So?" "A certain van in a certain police impound was just blown up. Seemed le Plastique was involved.
Thought you might want to know." "Thanks.
The phone went dead. Within 30 minutes, 6 FBI agents arrived at the police impound station.
It looked like a war zone.
The New York police were just as glad to be rid of it.
It was one less mess they had to worry about.
Just make sure that the paperwork covers ours asses.
Good, that seems to do it.
Frigging Feds. * * * * * Tyrone Duncan took an evening Trump Shuttle down to Washington's National Airport.
The 7:30 flight was dubbed the Federal Express by the stewardesses because it was primarily congressmen, diplo- mats and other Washington denizens who took this flight.
They wanted to get to D.C. before the cocktail parties began and found the 2-drink flight an excellent means to tune up.
Duncan was met out in front by a driver who held up a sign that read 'Burnson'. He got into the car in silence and was driven to a residence on "P" Street off Wisconsin in Georgetown.
The brick townhouse looked like every other million dollar home in the affluent Washington bedroom community.
But this one was special.
It not only served as a home away from home for Bob Burnson when he worked late, but it was also a common neutral meeting place far from prying eyes and ears.
This night was one such case. An older, matronly lady answered the door. "May I help you?
She went through the formality for the few accidental tourists who rang the bell. "I'm here to see Mr. Merriweather.
Merri- weather was the nom-de-guerre of Bob Burnson, at least at this location.
Duncan was ushered into the elegant old sitting room, where the butleress closed the door behind him.
He double- checked that she was gone and walked over to the fireplace.
The marble facade was worn in places, from overuse he assumed, but nonetheless, traces of its 19th century elegance remained.
He looked up at the large full length standing portrait of a somber, formal man dressed in a three piece suit.
Undoubtedly this vain portrait was his only remaining legacy, whoever he was.
Tyrone pressed a small button built into the side of the picture frame. An adjoining bookcase slipped back into the wall, exposing a dark entry.
Duncan squeezed his bulk through the narrow wedge provided by the opened bookcase. The blank wall behind him closed and the lights in the room he entered slowly brightened.
Three people were seated at an over- sized table with black modern executive chairs around it.
Too large to fit behind the 18 foot width of a Georgetown brownstone.
The adjacent building must be an ersatz cover for the privacy that this domicile required.
The room was simple, but formal.
Stark white walls and their nondescript modern paintings were illuminated by recessed lights.
Both wore Government issue blue suits, white shirts and diagonally striped maroon ties.
Their hair was regulation above the ears, immaculately kept.
Reminded Duncan of the junior clerks on Wall Street.
They could only afford suits from the discount racks, but still tried to make a decent impression.
The attempt usually failed, but G-Men stuck to the tradition of poor dress.
He had never seen either of the men that flanked Burnson, which wasn't unusual.
He was a New Yorker who carefully avoided the cacophony of Washington poli- tics.
He played the political game once nearly 30 years ago to secure his position, but he had studiously avoided it since. "Thanks for making it on such short notice," Burnson solicitous- ly greeted Duncan.
He did it for the benefit of the others present. "Yes sir.
Duncan groaned through the lie.
He had been ordered to this command performance. "This is," Burnson gestured to his right, "Martin Templer, our CIA liaison, and," pointing to his left, "Charlie Sorenson, assistant DIRNSA, from the Fort.
They all shook hands perfunc- torily.
We're not on Government time." Duncan looked and saw they were all drinking something other than Coke.
The bar behind them showed recent use.
It was Duncan's first time to 'P Street' as this well disguised location was called.
Burnson rose and poured the vodka over perfectly formed ice cubes.
He handed the drink to Duncan and indicated he should take a seat. They exchanged pleasantries, and Duncan spoke of the improvement in the Northeast corridor Shuttle service; the flight was almost on time.
Enough of the niceties. "We don't want to hold you up more than necessary, but since you were here in town we thought we could discuss a couple of mat- ters.
Burnson was the only one to speak.
The others watched Duncan too closely for his taste.
What a white wash. He was called down here, pronto.
Since I'm here, my ass. "No problem sir.
He carried the charade forward. "We need to know more about your report.
This morning's report." Sorenson, the NSA man spoke.
Can you fill us in?
He sipped his drink while maintaining eye contact with Duncan. "Well, there's not much to say beyond what I put in." Suspicion was evident in Duncan's voice.
I think that it's a real possi- bility that there is a group who may be using highly advanced computer equipment as weapons.
Or at least surveillance tools. A massive operation is suspected.
I think I explained that in my report." "You did Tyrone," Bob agreed.
It's just that there may be additional considerations that you're not aware of.
Things I wasn't even aware of.
Bob looked at the NSA man in deference. "Thanks, Bob, be glad to.
Charlie Sorenson was a seasoned spook.
His casual manner was definitely practiced.
Basically, we're following up on the matter of the van you reported, and the alleged equipment it held.
He scanned the folder in front of him.
It says here," he perused, "that you discovered that indi- viduals have learned how to read computer signals, unbeknownst to the computer users.
He looked up at Duncan for a confirmation. Tyrone felt slightly uncomfortable.
Is that right?" "Yes, sir," Duncan replied.
From the information we've received, it appears that a group has the ability to detect computer radia- tion from great distances.
This technique allows someone to compromise computer privacy . . ." "We know what it is Mr. Duncan.
The NSA man cut him off abrupt- ly.
Duncan looked at Burnson who avoided his stare.
What we want to know is, how do you know?
How do you know what CMR radiation is?
There was no smile or sense of warmth from the inquisitor.
Not that there had been since the unpropitious beginning of this evening. "CMR?
Tyrone wasn't familiar with the term. "Coherent Monitor Radiation.
What do you know?" "There was a van that crashed in New York a couple of days ago." Duncan was not sure what direction this conversation was going to take.
I have reason to believe it contained computer equipment that was capable of reading computer screens from a distance." "What cases are you working on that relate to this?
Again the NSA man sounded like he was prosecuting a case in court. "I have been working on a blackmail case," Duncan said.
Now I'm the agency liaison with ECCO and CERT.
Looking into the INTERNET problems." The two G-men looked at each other.
Templer from the CIA shrugged at Sorenson.
Burnson was ignored. "Are you aware that you are working in an area of extreme nation- al security?
Sorenson pointedly asked Duncan. Tyrone Duncan thought for a few seconds before responding.
I would imagine that if computers can be read from a distance then there is a potential national security issue.
But I can assure you, it was brought to my attention through other means.
Duncan tried to sound confident of his position. "Mr. Duncan," Sorenson began, "I will tell you something, and I will only tell you because you have been pre-cleared.
He waited for a reaction, but Duncan did not give him the satisfaction of a sublimation.
Duncan had the common sense to censor himself effectively. "CMR radiation, as it is called, is a major threat facing our computers today.
Do you know what that means?
Tyrone had to play along. "From what I gather, it means that our computers are not safe from eavesdropping.
Anyone can listen in." Tyrone spoke coldly. Other than Bob, he was not with friends. "Let me put it succinctly," Sorenson said.
CMR radiation has been classified for several years.
We don't even admit that it exists.
If we did, there could be panic.
As far as we are concerned with the public, CMR radiation is a figment of an inventive imagination.
Do you follow?" "Yes," Duncan agreed, "but why?
It doesn't seem to be much of a secret to too many people?" "That poses two questions.
Have you ever heard of the Tempest Program?" "Tempest?
Duncan searched his mind. "Tempest is a classified program managed by the Department of Defense and administered by the National Security Agency.
It has been in place for years.
The premise is that computers radiate information that our enemies can pick up with sophisticated equipment.
Computers broadcast signals that tell what they're doing.
And they do it in two ways.
First they radiate like a radio station.
Anyone can pick it up.
This statement confirmed what Scott had been saying.
And, computers broadcast their signals down the power lines.
If someone tried, they could listen to our AC lines and essentially know what was the computer was doing.
I'm sure you see the problem.
We listen to other people for a living." "You mean you spy on computers, too?
Tyrone remembered back when FBI and CIA abuses had totally gotten out of hand. "The courts have determined that eavesdropping in on cellular phone conversations in not an invasion of privacy.
We take the same position on CMR.
Sorenson wanted to close the issue quick- ly. Duncan carefully prepared his answer amidst the outrage he was feeling.
He sensed an arrogant Big Brother attitude at work.
He hated the 'my shit doesn't stink' attitude of the NSA.
All in the name of National Security.
Until a couple of days ago I would have thought this was pure science fiction." "It isn't Mr. Duncan.
Tempest is a front line of defense to protect American secrets.
We need to know what else there is; what you haven't put in your reports.
The NSA man pressed. Duncan looked at Bob who had long ago ceased to control the conversation.
He got no signs of support.
In fact, it was almost the opposite.
He had had little contact with the Agency in his 30 years of service.
And when there was contact it was relegated to briefings, policy shifts. . .pretty bureaucratic stuff. "As I said, it's all in the report.
When there's more, I'll submit it.
Duncan maintained his composure. "Mr. Duncan, I don't think that will do.
Martin Templer spoke up again.
We have been asked to assist the NSA in the matter." "Whoah!
Duncan's legal training had not been for naught.
He knew a thing or two about Federal charters and task designations.
The NSA is just a listening post.
Your guys do the international spook stuff, and we do the domestic leg work.
Since when is the Fort into investigations?" "Ty?
The uneasiness in Bob's voice was promi- nent.
The protection of classified information is their respon- sibility.
A group was created to report on computer security problems that might have an effect on national security.
On that committee is the Director of the NSA.
In essence, they have control.
It's out of our hands." Tyrone was never the technical type, and definitely not the politician.
Besides, there was no way any one human being could keep up with the plethora of regulations and rule changes that poured out of the three branches of government.
Are you telling me that the NSA can swoop down on our turf and take the cases they want, when they want?
Duncan hoped he had heard wrong. "Mr. Duncan, I think you may be under a mistaken impression here.
Sorenson sipped his drink and turned in the swivel chair. "We don't want anything to do with your current cases, especially the alleged blackmail operation in place.
That is certainly within the domain of the FBI.
No. All we want is the van.
The NSA man realized he may have come on a little strong and Duncan had misunderstood.
This should clear everything up nicely. Tyrone decided to extricate himself from any further involvement with these guys.
He would offer what he knew, selectively. "Take the van, it's yours.
Or what's left of it." "Who else knows about CMR?
Sorenson wanted more than the van. Duncan didn't answer.
An arrogance, a defiance came over him that Bob Burnson saw immediately.
Tell them where you found out, Ty.
He saw Duncan's negative facial reaction.
That's an order." How could he minimize the importance of Scott's contribution to his understanding of CMR radiation?
How could he rationalize their relationship?
He thought, and then realized it might not matter.
Scott had said he already had his story, and no one had done anything wrong.
Actually they had only had a casual con- versation on a train, as commuter buddies, what was the harm?
It really exposed him more than Scott if anything came of it. "From an engineer friend of mine.
He told me about how it worked." The reactions from the CIA and NSA G-Men were poorly concealed astonishment.
For a defense contractor?" "No, he's also a reporter." "A reporter?
Sorenson rapidly rose from his chair.
Have a good flight back." * * * * * Tuesday., December 1 New York City The morning commute into the City was agonizingly long for Scott Mason.
He nearly ran the 5 blocks from Grand Central Station to the paper's offices off Times Square.
The elevator wait was interminable.
He dashed into the City Room, bypassing his desk, and ran directly toward editor Doug McQuire's desk.
Doug saw him coming and was ready. "Don't stop here.
We're headed up to Higgins.
Doug tried to deflect the verbal onslaught from Scott. "What the hell is going on here, Doug?
I work on a great story, you said you loved it, and then I finally get the missing piece and then . . .this?
He pushed the morning paper in Doug's face.
Where the fuck is my story?
And don't give me any of this 'we didn't have the room' shit.
I never was, that's why you hired me.
You've always been straight with me . . ." Scott trailed behind Doug as they walked down the hallway to Higgins' office.
He was still calling Doug every name in the book as they entered the room.
Higgins sat behind his desk, no tie, totally un-Higgins-like.
Scott shot out another nasty remark. "Hey, you look like shit." "Thanks to you," the bedraggled Higgins replied. "What?
Scott's anger displayed concern as well. "Sit down.
Higgins could be forceful when necessary.
Apparently he felt this was an appropriate time to use his drill sergeant voice.
It startled Scott so he sat - on the edge of his seat.
He wasn't through dishing out what he thought about having a story pulled this way. Higgins waited for nearly half a minute.
Let some calm, normalcy return before he started. "Scott, I pulled the story, Doug didn't.
And, if it makes you feel any better, we've both been here all night.
And we've had outside counsel lose sleep, too.
What are you . . .?" "Hear me out.
Higgins' sincerity was real; tired, but real. Scott suddenly felt a twinge of guilt, but not enough to remove the anger he still felt.
What ever happened to the first amend- ment?
Irate confusion was written all over his face. "Here me out before you pull the switch," Higgins sounded very tired.
About 10:30 last night I got a call from the Print Chief.
He said that the NYPD was at the plant with a restraining order that we not print a story you had written.
What should they do, he asked.
Needless to say I had to come down, so I told him, hold the presses, for a half hour.
I called Ms. Manchester and she met me here just after eleven.
Whatever was going on, the story was so strong, that we can always print it in a few days once we sorted it out.
But now, we need to know, what is going on?
Higgins was clearly exhausted. Scott was at a loss for words.
I . . .uh . . . dunno.
What did the court order say?" "That the paper will, will is their word, refrain from printing anything with regards to CMR.
And CMR was all over your article. Nobody here knew much about it, other than what was in the arti- cle, and we couldn't reach you, so we figured that we might save ourselves a bushel of trouble by waiting.
Just a day or two," he quickly added. "How the hell did they find out ?
Scott's mind immediately blamed Tyrone.
He knew better than to trust a Fed.
Tyrone must have gone upstairs and told his cronies that I was onto a story and . . .well one thing led to another.
But Jeez . . .the Attor- ney General's office. "Scott, what is going on here?
Higgins asked but Doug wanted to know as well.
It looks like you've got a tiger by the tail. And the tiger is in Washington.
Seems like you've pissed off some important people.
We need to know, the whole bit.
What are you onto?" "It's all in the story," Scott said, emotionally drained before 9:00 AM. "Whatever I know is there.
It's all been confirmed, Doug saw the notes.
He felt up against an invisible wall.
I got my confirmations from a couple of engineers and a hacker type who is up on computer security stuff.
This stuff is chicken feed compared to SDI and the Stealth Bomber." "So why do they care?" "I have an idea, but I can't prove it yet," offered Scott. "Lay it on us, kid," said Doug approvingly.
He loved controver- sial reporting, and this had the makings of . . . "What if between this and the Exchange we fell into a secret weapons program," Scott began. "Too simple.
Been done before without this kind of backlash," Higgins said dismissing the idea. "Except, these weapons can be built by any high school kid with an electronics lab and a PC," Scott retorted undaunted.
Maybe not as good, or as powerful, but nonetheless, effective.
If you were the government, would you want every Tom, Dick and Shithead to build home versions of cruise missiles?" "I think you're exaggerating a little, Scott.
Higgins pinched his nose by the corners of his eyes.
What do you think?" Doug was amazingly collected.
I think," he said slowly, "that Scott is onto a once in a lifetime story.
My gut tells me this is real.
And still, we only have a small piece of the puzzle." "Scott?
Get right back on it," Doug ordered.
I want to know what the big stink is.
Higgins will use outside counsel to see if they dig anything up, but I believe you'll have better luck. It seems that you've stumbled on something that the Government wants kept secret.
Keep up the good work." Scott was being congratulated on having a story pulled, which aroused mixed emotions within him.
His boss thought it wonderful that it was pulled.
It all depends what side of the fence you're on, I guess. "I have a couple of calls to make.
Scott excused himself from Higgins' domain to get back to his desk.
He dialed Duncan's private number. "4543," Duncan answered gruffly. "Fuck you very much.
Scott enjoyed slamming down the phone as hard as he could. Scott's second call wouldn't be for hours.
He wished it could be sooner, so the day passed excruciatingly slowly.
But, it had to wait.
Safety was a concern, not getting caught was paramount.
He was going to rob a bank. * * * * * Washington, D.C. "I will call you in 5 minutes." Miles Foster heard the click of the phone in his ear.
It was better to speak to Homosoto over the computer than in person.
He didn't have to hear the condescension.
He turned his Compaq 486 back on and initiated the auto-answer mode on the modem through the ProTalk software package. Miles was alone.
He had sent Perky home a few minutes before. He heard his modem ring, and saw the computer answer.
HIS EQUIPMENT HAS BEEN CAPTURED. By whom? THE NEW YORK POLICE.
SCOTT MASON WROTE A STORY ON THE READERS AND THE GOVERNMENT STOPPED HIM. How?
We don't do that sort of stuff. OBVIOUSLY YOU DO, MR. FOSTER.
I HAVE MY SOURCES AS YOU DO. They don't screw with the press, though.
That's frowned upon. MAYBE SO, BUT TRUE.
WE NEED TO GET THIS MASON BACK ON THE TRACK. HE IS WHAT WE NEED. Why him? SIMPLE.
WE CANNOT LET HIM FAIL. How much does he know? AS MUCH AS WE WANT HIM TO.
YOU KNOW HOW CRITICAL THE PRESS IS. THEY ARE OUR MOUTHPIECE. Yes, I agree.
I wish I knew how you find out these things. MANY PEOPLE OWE ME FAVORS.
THE WAR IS NOT OVER. What do you want me to do? MAKE SURE THAN MR. MASON IS KEPT INFORMED.
PUT HIM BACK ON THE TRACK. I know how to do that.
That will not be a problem.
Do we still have readers? YES, WE LOST ONLY ONE, AND THAT IS NOT HURTING.
WE HAVE MANY MORE. How many? MR. FOSTER, YOU WROTE THE PLAN.
DID YOU FORGET? No, I know.
Curiosity. KILLED THE CAT AS YOU SAY. It is my plan. WHICH I BOUGHT.
SEE THAT WE GET IT. Sure. MR. FOSTER?
Now, it was time to take advantage of his new asset.
Maybe the Government carries weight with their spook shit, but a bank can't push hard enough to pull a story, if it's true.
And Kirk, whoever that was, offered Scott the ideal way to prove it.
Do it yourself. So he prepared himself for a long night, and he would definitely sleep in tomorrow; no matter what!
Scott so cherished his sleep time.
He wormed his way through the mess of the downstairs "study in disaster," and made space by redistributing the mess into other corners. He felt a commitment, an excitement that was beyond that of de- veloping a great story.
Scott was gripped with an intensity that was a result of the apprehension of invading a computer, and the irony of it all.
He was an engineer, turned writer, using com- puters as an active journalistic instrument other than for word processing.
To Scott, the computer, being the news itself, was being used as a tool to perform self examination as a sentient being, as a separate entity.
Techno-psychoanalysis? Is it narcissistic for man's tools to use themselves as both images of the mirror of reflective analysis?
They say man's brain can never fully understand itself.
Is the same true with comput- ers?
And since they grow in power so quickly compared to man's snail-like millennia by millennia evolution, can they catch up with themselves? Back to reality, Scott.
The Great American Techno-Philosophy and Pulitzer could wait.
He had a bank to rob.
Scott left his computer on all the time since Kirk had first called.
If the Intergalactic Traveler called back, the computer would answer, and Kirk could leave a message.
Scott checked the Mail Box in the ProCom communications program.
Not that his modem was a popular number.
Only he, his office computer and Kirk knew it.
And the phone company, but everyone knows about them . . . Just as the clock struck midnight, Kirk jumped in his seat.
Not only was the bell chiming an annoying 12 mini-gongs, but his computer was beeping.
It took a couple of beeps from the small speaker in his computer for him to realize he was receiving a call.
What do I do know?
The 14" color screen came alive and it entered terminal mode from the auto-answer screen that Scott had left yesterday. WTFO The screen rang out.
Scott knew the answer. naft VERY GOOD!
COULDN'T HAVE SAID IT BETTER MYSELF. Welcome pilgrim, what has brought thee to these shores? I GUESS WRITERS HAVE AN ADVANTAGE ON COMM.
CREATE ANY PICTURE YOU WANT. Seems a bit more sporting that hiding behind techy-talk. YEAH, WELL, I'LL WORK ON IT. So, as Maynard G.
Crebbs asked, "You Rang?" AH!
NICK AT NIGHT! No, the originals. WHEN WAS THAT? You've just dated yourself.
READY FOR A TRIP TO THE BANK? You read my mind :-) I FIGURED YOU'D WIMP OUT ON A SOLO TRIP, FIRST TIME AND ALL. THOUGHT I MIGHT BE ABLE TO HELP.
I MAKE A HELL OF A CHAUFFEUR. What do you mean? I MEAN I'M GOING TO TAKE YOU FOR A RIDE. You're kidding.
Just like Superman carries Lois Lane? JUST ABOUT.
FIRST I'M GOING TO SEND YOU A COPY OF 'MIRAGE' SOFTWARE. When? RIGHT NOW.
ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS EXECUTE FROM THE COMMAND LINE AFTER I DOWN LOAD. English kimosabe. OK, ITS SIMPLE.
ENTER MIRAGE.EXE AND RETURN. Stop!
I'm writing . . . USE PRTSCR What's that? IS YOUR PRINTER ON LINE? Yes. WHENEVER YOU WANT TO PRINT WHAT'S ON THE SCREEN ENTER 'SHIFT- PrtScr'.
Got it. OR SAVE THE WHOLE THING TO A FILE.
MEANS MONGO EDITING THOUGH. Done!
No memory needed. HIT ALT-F9.
MIRAGE IS COMING. Scott did as instructed.
The entire procedure made sense intel- lectually, but inside, there was an inherent disbelief that any of these simple procedures would produce anything meaningful.
It is inherently difficult to feel progress, a sense of achievement without instantaneous feedback that all was well. Less than a minute later, the screen told Scott it was finished. Did he want to Save the file?
Mirage.Exe. Would you like to receive another?
No. Do you want to exit to Command line?
He entered Mirage.Exe as Kirk had instruct- ed, hoping that he was still waiting at the other end.
The screen displayed various copyrights and Federal warnings about illegal copying of software, the very crime Scott had just com- mitted. The video suddenly split into two windows.
The bottom window looked just like the screen he used to talk to Kirk, except much smaller.
Only 10 out of a possible 25 lines.
The upper half of the screen was new.
MIRAGE-Remote View (C)1988. Kirk announced himself. WTFO Yup!
DO YOU HAVE A DECENT MONITOR? vga 14 inch GOOD.
REMEMBER, WHENEVER YOU WANT A COPY OF THE SCREEN, HIT SHIFT-PRTSCR. Can't I save everything? CTRL-ALT-S, YEAH. Done.
Anything else? YOU CAN'T INTERFERE.
JUST ALONG FOR THE RIDE. A Sunday drive in the country . . . WITH ME DRIVING.
FASTEN YOUR SEAT BELTS. Scott watched with his fingers sitting on the keyboard with anticipation.
XXXXXXXX The video monitor did not let Scott see the access codes. Welcome to USA-NET, Kirk. Time synchronizing: 0:04:57 December 18, 1990 DO YOU WANT THE MAIN MENU?
Y Scott's large window began to scroll and fill with lines after line of options: (A) Instructions (B) Charges (C) Updating (D) OAG (E) Shopping Menus (F) Trading Menus (G) Conversation Pits In all there were 54 choices displayed.
The lower window came alive. SEE HOW IT WORKS? Fascinating. THAT WAS JUST A TEST.
SURE YOU WANNA GO? Scott had gone this far.
He would worry about the legalities in the morning.
Higgins would have his work cut out for him. Aye, aye, Captain. ENGAGE WARP ENGINES. The upper window changed again. QUIT?
Y <<<<<<CONNECTION TERMINATED>>>>>> Another number flashed in the upper window.
12125559796. <<DIALING>> After less than 2 rings the screen announced that they had ar- rived at the front doors to the computer system at First State Bank, in New York.
Kirk was not from New York. He used an area code. Scott felt like looking back over his shoulders to see who was watching him.
His automatic flight-or-fight response made the experience more exhilarating.
He tried to force his intellect to convince himself that he was far from view, unobservable, unde- tectable.
Only partially successful, he remained tense realizing that he was borderline legal. <<<<<<CONNECTION>>>>>> PORT CONTROL SECURITY, CENTRAL DATA PROCESSING CENTER, FIRST STATE BANK.
O/S VMS R31 SECURITY: SE-PROTECT, 4.0 REV. 3.12.1 10, OCT, 1989 TIME: 00:12:43.1 DATE: 04 December PORT: 214 ARE YOU SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR?
SEVERE DAMAGE MAY RESULT FROM IMPROPER ADMINISTRA- TION. ***************** Scott watched in fascination.
Here he was, riding shotgun on a trip through one of New York's largest bank computers, and there was no resistance.
He could not believe that he had more securi- ty in his house than a bank with assets of over $10 Billion.
I gotta great . . ." "Hey, I thought you were gonna come in late today?
He looked at the New York clock on the wall.
Scott broke the promise he made to himself to come in late. "Yeah, well, I underslept.
He brandished a thick file of computer printouts.
Before I write this one, I want Higgins and every other lawyer God put on this green Earth to go over it." "Since when did you get so concerned with pre-scrutiny.
As I remember, it was only yesterday that you threatened to nuke Higgins' house and everyone he ever met.
Doug pretended to be condescending.
Actually, the request was a great leap forward for Scott and every other reporter.
Get pre-lawyered, on the approach, learn the guidelines, and maybe new rules before plow- ing ahead totally blind. "Since I broke into a bank last night!
Scott threw the folder down on Doug's desk.
I'm going to Rosie's for a choles- terol fix.
Need a picker upper." When Scott came back from a breakfast of deep fried fat and pan grilled grease he grabbed his messages at the front desk.
Me too," he came back just as sarcastically.
Doug." He acknowledged his editor with only slightly more civility. "John, the boy's been up all night," Doug conciliated to Higgins. He called all his reporters boys.
He was serious. "Sure, Doug," he nodded. Higgins began.
O.K., Scott, what is it this time?
Doug said you broke into a bank, and I haven't had time to go over these.
He held up the thick file of printouts.
In 25 words or less." The legal succinctness annoyed Scott. "Simple.
I tied in with a hacker last night, 'round midnight. He had the passwords to get into the First State computers, and well, he showed me around.
Showed me how much damage can actual- ly be done by someone at a keyboard.
The tour lasted almost 2 hours." "That's it?
Let me tell you a few things in 25 words or more!
Scott was tired and the lack of sleep made him irritable. "I did a little checking before I went on this excursion.
You bank at First, don't you, John?" It was a setup question.
Yes," Higgins said carefully. "I thought so.
Here let me have that file.
Gimme a minute," he said flipping pages.
Here it is, and yes, correct me if I say anything that you don't agree with.
His curtness and accusato- ry sound put both Higgins and Doug off.
Where was he going? "John W.
Higgins, social security number, 134-66-9241.
Born Rock- ville, Maryland, June 1, 1947.
You currently have $12,435.16 in your checking account, $23,908.03 in savings . . ." Higgins' jaw and pen dropped simultaneously.
Doug saw the shock on his face while Scott continued. "Your mortgage at 115 Central Park West is $2,754.21.
How the hell do you know . . ." "Jeez you make that much?
Can I be a lawyer too, huh?
Please Mr. Higgins?" Higgins threw his chair back and stormed around his desk to grab the papers from Scott.
Scott held them away. "Let me see those!
Doug decided enough was enough.
Scott had made his point.
Let him have them." "Sure, boss!
He grinned widely at Doug who could not, for reasons of professional conduct, openly condone Scott's perform- ance, no matter how effective it was. Higgins looked at the top pages from where Scott was reading.
He read them intently, looking from one to the other.
Slowly, he walked back to his desk, and sat down, nearly missing the chair because he was so engrossed. Without looking up he spoke softly.
I can't believe that you have this.
Suddenly he spoke right to Scott.
You know this is privileged information, you can't go telling anyone about my personal finances.
You do know that, right?
The concern was acute. "Hey, I don't really give a damn what you make, but I needed to shake the tree.
This is serious shit." "Scott, you've got my total, undivided attention now.
You have up to 100 words.
Humor wasn't Higgins' strong point, or his weak point, or any point, but Scott appreci- ated the gesture.
A peace treaty, for now. "Thanks, John.
As you know I've been run- ning a few stories on hackers, computer crimes, what have you." Higgins rolled his eyes.
A few weeks ago I got a call from Captain Kirk.
He's a hacker." "What do you know about him?
Higgins was again taking notes. The tape recorder was nowhere to be seen. "Not much, yet, but I have a few ideas.
I would hazard to guess that he is younger.
Maybe in his late '20's, not from New York, maybe the Coast, and has a sense of responsibility." "How do know this?" "Well, I don't know, I guessed from our conversations." "Why didn't you just ask?" "I did.
But, he wants his anonymity.
It's the things he says, the way he says them.
The only reason I know he's a he is be- cause he called me on the phone first." "When did you speak to him?
After that it's been over computer." "So it could be anyone really?" "Sure, but that doesn't matter.
First, we entered the computer . . ." "What do you mean we?
Higgins shot Scott a disapproving stare. "We.
He tied my computer to his so I could watch what he was doing.
So, he gets into the computer . . ." "How?" "With the passwords.
There were three." "How did he get them?" "From another hacker I assume.
The con- stant interruptions exasperated Scott.
Let me finish, then grill me.
Sure. "So, once we were in, he could do anything he wanted.
The com- puter thought he was the Systems Administrator, the head honcho for all the bank's computer operations.
So we had free reign. The first place we went was to Account Operations.
That's where the general account information on the bank's customers is kept. I asked him for information on you.
Within seconds I knew a lot about you.
From there, he asked for detailed information on your files; credit cards, payment histo- ry, delinquencies, loans on cars, IRA's, the whole shooting match." "I have to interrupt here, Scott," Higgins said edgily.
Could he, or you have made changes, to, ah . . .my account?" "We did!" "You made changes?
Higgins was aghast. "We took all your savings and invested them in a new startup fast food franchise called Press Rat and Wharthog Sandwiches, Inc." "You have got be kidding.
Scott saw the sweat drops at Higgins' hairline. "Yeah, I am. But he did show me how easy it is to make adjust- ments in account files.
Like pay off loans and have them disap- pear, invoke foreclosures, increase or decrease balances, whatev- er we wanted to do." "Jesus Christ!" "That's not the half of it.
Not even a millionth of it.
See, we went through lots of accounts.
The bank computer must hold hundreds of thousands of account records, and we had access to them all.
Scott held up his hands to slow Higgins down.
We left everything the way it was, no changes as far as I could tell." "Are you sure?" "No, I'm not.
I wasn't in the driver's seat.
I went along for the ride." "What else did you do last night, Scott?
Higgins sounded re- signed to more bad news.
The legal implications must have been too much for him to handle. "We poked around transfer accounts, where they wire money from one bank to another and through the Fed Reserve.
Transaction accounts, reserves, statements, credit cards.
If a bank does it, we saw it.
The point is, John, I need to know two things." John Higgins sat back, apparently exhausted.
He knew what was coming, at least half of it.
His expression told Scott to ask away.
He could take it. "First, did I do anything illegal, prosecutable?
You know what I mean.
And, can I run with it?
That's it." Higgins' head leaned back on the leather head rest as he began to speak deliberately.
This was going to be a lawyer's non-answer. Scott was prepared for it. "Did you commit a crime?
My gut reaction says no, but I'm not up on the latest computer legislation.
Did you, at any time, do anything to the bank's computers?" "No. He had control.
I only had a window." "Good, that helps.
The air thickened with anticipation as Doug and Scott both waited for words of wisdom.
I could make a good argument that you were a reporter, with appropriate credentials, interviewing an individual, who was, coincidentally, at the same time, committing a crime.
That is, if what he did was a crime. I don't know the answer to that yet. "There have been countless cases where a reporter has witnessed crimes and reported on them with total immunity.
Yes, the more I think about it, consider this.
Higgins seemed to have renewed energy.
The law was his bible and Scott was listening in the congregation.
Reporters have often gone into hostage situations where there is no doubt that a crime is in progress, to report on the condition of the hostages.
They have followed drug dealers into crack houses and filmed their activities." Higgins thought a little more.
The arena doesn't change the rules.
You said you couldn't affect the computers, right?
He wanted a confirmation. "Right.
And . . .asked him to do certain things." "No you didn't!
Higgins cracked sharply at Scott.
If anyone asks, you only watched." "Gotcha.
Scott recognized the subtle difference.
He did not want to be an aider or abettor of a crime. "So, that makes it easy.
If you were in the hackers home, watch- ing him over his shoulder, that would be no different from watch- ing him over a computer screen.
There is very little case history on this stuff, so, if it came to it, we'd be in an inter- esting position to say the least.
But, to answer your question, no, I don't think that you did anything illegal." "Great.
So I can write the story and . . .
Scott made a forgone conclusion without his lawyers advice.
There was no way Higgins would let him get away with that. "Hold your horses.
You say write a story, and based upon what I know so far, I think you can, but with some rules." "What kind of rules?
Skepticism permeated Scott's slow re- sponses. "Simple ones.
Are you planning on printing the passwords to their computers?" "No, not at all.
Why?" "Because, that is illegal.
So, good, rule one is easy.
Two, I want to read over this entire file and have a review of everything before it goes to bed.
Higgins looked at Doug who had not contributed much.
He merely nodded, of course that would be fine. "Three, no specifics.
No names of people you saw, nothing exact. We do not want to be accused of violation of privacy in any way, shape or form." "That's it?
What seemed like common sense to him was a legal spider web that Higgins was re- quired to think through. "Almost.
Lastly, was this interview on the record?" Damn good question, Scott thought.
I never asked, it didn't seem like a regular interview, and since I don't know Kirk's real name, he's not the story.
It was what he did that is the story.
Does it matter?" "If the shit hits the fan it might, but I think we can get around it.
Just be careful what you say, so I don't have to redline 90% of it.
Fair enough?" Scott was pleased beyond control.
He stood to thank Higgins. "Deal.
Scott began to turn. "Scott?
One more thing." Oh no, he thought, the hammer was dropping.
He turned back to Higgins.
Keep it up and keep it clean." "No problem.
No, problem at all." Back at his desk, Scott called Hugh Sidneys.
He still worked at State First, as far as he knew, and it was time to bring him out of the closet, if possible. "Hugh?
This is Scott Mason, over at the Times?" "Yeah?
Oh, hello," Sidneys said suspiciously.
What do you want?" "Hugh, we need to talk." "About what?" "I think you know.
Would you like to talk here on the phone, or privately?
Sometimes leaving the mark only two options, neither particularly attractive, would keep him within those bounds. Sidneys was an ideal person for this tact. The pregnant pause conveyed Sidney's consternation.
The first person to speak would lose, thought Scott.
Hugh spoke. "Ah, I think it would be . . .ah better . . .if we spoke . . .at . . ." "How about the same place?
Scott offered. "OK," Hugh was hesitant.
I guess so . . .when?" "Whenever you want.
Scott released the tension. "I get off at 5, how about . . .?" "I'll be there." "Yes ma'am.
I'm a reporter for the Times. I will only take a few seconds of his time.
Scott used his kiss-the-secretary's-ass voice.
Better then being aggressive unless it was warranted. "I'll check, Mr. Mason," she said.
The phone went on hold. After a very few seconds, the Muzak was replaced with a gruff male voice. "Mr. Mason?
How may I help you?
He conveyed self assuredness, vitality and defensiveness. "I won't take a moment, sir.
Scott actually took several sec- onds to make sure his question would be formed accurately.
He probably only had one chance.
We have been researching an article on fraudulent investment practices on the part of various banks; some fall out from the S&L mess.
He paused for effect. "At any rate, we have received information that accuses First State of defrauding it's investors.
In particular, we have records that show a complicated set of financial maneuvers that are designed to drain hundreds of millions of dollars from the assets of First State.
Do you have any comment?" Total silence.
The quality of fiber phone lines made the silence all the more deafening. "If you would like some specifics, sir, I can provide them to you," Scott said adding salt to the wound.
In many cases, sir, you are named as the person responsible for these activities.
We have the documents and witnesses.
Again, we would like a comment before we go to print." Again Scott was met with silence.
Last try. "Lastly, Mr. MacMillan, we have evidence that your bank's comput- ers have been invaded by hackers who can alter the financial posture of First State.
If I may say so, the evidence is quite damning.
Scott decided not to ask for a comment directly.
The question was no longer rhetorical, it was implicit. If feelings could be transmitted over phone wires, Scott heard MacMillan's nerve endings commence a primal scream.
The phone explosively hung up on Scott. * * * * * Thursday, December 3 First State Bank, New York Francis MacMillan, President of First State Savings and Loan, bellowed at the top of his lungs.
Three Vice Presidents were in his office before 7:00 A.M. "Who the fuck's in charge of making sure the damned computers are safe?" The V.P. of Data processing replied.
It's Jeanne Fineman, sir." "Fire him." "Jeanne is a woman . . ." "Fire them both.
I want them out of here in 10 minutes.
McMil- lan's virulent intensity gave his aides no room for dissent. "Sir, why, it's almost Christmas, and it wasn't her fault . . ." "And no bonus.
Make sure they never work near banks, or comput- ers ever again!
Everyone nodded in shock. "Al?
Buy back our stock, quietly.
When the market hears this we're in for a dump.
No one will believe us when we respond, and it will take us a day to get out an answer." "How much?
Al Shapiro asked. "You figure it out.
Shapiro noted it agree- ably. "Where the hell are the lawyers?
I want that pinko-faggot news- paper stopped by tonight.
McMillan's rage presaged a very, very bad day at First State. "And someone, someone, find me that shit hole worm Sidneys.
I want him in my office in 30 seconds.
Upon reports that computer hackers have had access to First State's computers and records for some time, and can change their contents at will, the stock market reacted negatively by a sell-off.
In the first 15 minutes of trading, First State's stock plummeted from 48 1/2 to 26 1/4, a reduction of one half its value.
Subsequently, the stock moved up with block buying.
At the noon bell, the stock had risen modestly to 31.
In a press release issued by First State at 1:00 PM they said, "A minor compromise of our computers has caused no discernible damage to the computers, our customers or the bank.
A thorough investigation has determined that the hacker was either a figment of the imagination of a local paper or was based upon unfounded hearsay.
The bank's attorneys are reviewing their options." The combination of the two announcements only further depressed First State stock.
It stood at 18 7/8 when the SEC blocked further trading. This is Scott Mason, who reported the news as he saw it.
Accu- rately. **************************************************************** Chapter 15 Sunday, December 6 Washington, D.C. Miles Foster was busy at one of the several computers in his Washington, D.C. condo.
It was necessary, on a daily basis, to stay in contact with a vast group of people who were executing portions of his master plan.
He thought it was going quite well, exceedingly so in fact.
Spread over 3 continents he remote controlled engineers and programmers who designed methods to compromise computers.
Miles had drawn up a list of minimum qualifications for his 'staff'.
He forwarded them to Homosoto, who, Miles guessed, passed them on to the ubiquitous yet invisible Alex.
That obviously wasn't his real name, but suitable for conversation. Miles had developed a profile of the various talents he required. One group needed to have excellent programming skills, with a broad range of expertise in operating systems.
An operating system is much like English or any other language.
It is the O/S that allows the computer to execute its commands.
Unless the computer understands the O/S, the computer is deaf dumb and blind.
As a child learns to communicate, a computer is imbued with the basic knowledge to permit it to function.
Good programmers learn the most efficient way to get a computer to perform the desired task.
There are, as in any field, tricks of the trade. Through experience, a programmer will learn how to fool the computer into doing things it might not be designed to do.
For example, in most of the 85,000,000 or so DOS com- puters in the world, it is common knowledge that when you ERASE a file, you really don't erase it.
You merely erase the NAME of the file.
He needed a group that knew the strengths and weaknesses of every major O/S to fulfill his mission.
They needed to be able to identify and exploit the trap doors and holes in all operating and security systems.
From an engineering standpoint, Miles found it terrifi- cally exciting.
Miles wasn't convinced that anyone but he could find the proper people.
The interview process alone was crucial to determining an applicant's true abilities, and a mediocre programmer could easily fool a non-technical person.
While Miles and Homosoto agreed that all programmers should be isolated from each other, Miles felt he should know them more than by a coded name over modem lines.
Miles lost that battle with one swift word from Homosoto.
No. To Miles' surprise, within a few days of providing Homosoto with is recruitment lists, his 'staff' began calling him on his com- puter.
To call Miles, a computer needed his number, and the proper security codes.
To a man, or woman, they all did.
And, as he spoke to them over the public phone lines, in encrypted form of course, he was amazed at their quality and level of technical sophistication.
Whoever Alex was, he knew how to do his job. Over a period of a few months, Miles commanded the resources of over 100 programmers.
But, Miles thought, there was something strange about most of those with whom he spoke.
They seemed ready to blindly follow instructions without questioning the assigned tasks.
When a programmer takes a job or an assignment, he usually knows that he will be designing a data base, or word processor or other application program.
However, Miles' staff was to design programs intended to damage computers. He had assembed the single largest virus software team in the world, and none of them questioned the nature or ethics of the work.
He realized he was wrong, although he did not know why.
He had never seen an ad with that as a job title, but, what the hell.
While there was somewhat of a language barrier when they spoke, the computer language was a common denominator, and they all spoke that fluently.
It broke down communications errors.
Either it was in the code, or it wasn't. Miles knew this designer only as Claude.
Claude's virus was small, less than 2K, or 2000 characters, but quite deadly.
Miles went over it and saw what it was designed to do.
As many viruses do, this one attached itself to the Command.Com file of the DOS Operating System.
Rather than wait for a specific future date, the next time the computer was booted, or turned on, Claude's virus in the O/S would play havoc with the chips that permit a printer to be connected to the computer.
In a matter of seconds, with no pre-warning, the user would hear a small fizzle, and smell the recognizable odor of electronic burn.
The victim would realize that his computer needed repair and take it be fixed at his local computer shop.
Upon its return, the owner would find his hard disk trashed and attempt to blame the repairman.
Of course this type of virus would be discovered before too long.
After a few thousand computers had their printer port blown up, word would get around and the virus would be identified.
But, mean- while, oh what fun. As Miles prepared to send Claude's latest and greatest to another of his staff for analysis and debugging, the computer dedicated to speaking to Homosoto beeped at him.
He glanced over at Nip- Com.
He labeled all his computers with abbreviations.
In this case, Nippon Communications seemed appropriate. <<<<<<CONNECTION>>>>>> MR. FOSTER Miles scooted his chair over to NipCom and entered his PRG re- sponse.. Here Boss-san.
What's up YOU TELL ME. Huh? I READ THE PAPERS.
AGAIN YOU MOVE PRECIPITOUSLY. What are you talking about? FIRST STATE BANK.
YOUR INFECTORS ARE WITHOUT DISCIPLINE I still don't know what you mean THE PAPERS HAVE SAID THAT FIRST STATE BANK WAS INVADED BY HACKERS AND THEIR STOCK DROPPED VERY MUCH.
IT IS STILL NOT TIME. Oh, that.
Good bit of work. NO SO MR FOSTER.
I AM NOT PLEASED WITH YOU Me, why?
I didn't have anything to do with it EXPLAIN Nothing to explain.
My group doesn't do that, and even if they did, so what. WHAT ABOUT THE VIRUSES?
I READ EVERY DAY OF NEW COMPUTER VIRUS. THEY MUST BE STOPPED. Why?
It's all in good fun.
Let 'em release them all they want. THEY WILL HURT OUR PLANS Bull.
If anything, they help us. HOW IS THAT? Getting folks good and nervous.
They're beginning to wonder who they can trust.
It sure as hell won't be the government. BUT IT IS IN THE PAPERS. So? THE BANKS WILL PROTECT THEMSELVES.
THEY WILL SEEN WHAT THE HACKERS DO AND MAKE OUR JOB MORE DIFFICULT. Not a chance.
Listen, there are hundreds, maybe thousands or more of small time hackers who poke around computers all the time.
Sometimes they do some damage, but most of the time they are in it for the thrill.
They are loosely organized at best.
Maybe a few students at a university, or high school who fancy themselves computer criminals.
Most of them wouldn't know what to do with the information if they took it. The only reason this one hit the papers is because First is under investigation anyway, some fraud stuff.
Literally thousands of computers are attacked every day, yet those don't appear in the paper or TV.
It's kind of like rape.
Companies don't want to admit they've been violated.
And since damage has been limited, at least as far as the scale upon which we function, it's a non- issue.
I DO NOT SEE IT THAT WAY. Well, that's the way it is.
There are maybe a half dozen well coordinated hacking groups who care to cause damage.
The rest of them, ignore them.
They're harmless. I WISH I BELIEVED THAT There's not much we can do about it. WHY NOT STOP THEM We can't.
We have hundreds of people who have a single purpose.
We operate as a single entity.
The hack- ers are only a small thorn.
Industry can't do much about them, so they ignore them.
It is better that we ignore them, too. FIND THEM Who? THE FIRST BANK ATTACKERS Why? I WANT THEM STOPPED I told you, you can't do that.
Call the Arab. LOOK AT US, MR FOSTER.
NOTHING IS IMPOSSIBLE. What do you want me to do with them? TELL ME WHO THEY ARE.
I WILL TAKE CARE OF IT. I'll see what I can do. DO IT. <<<<<<CONNECTION TERMINATED>>>>>> Fuck, thought Miles.
Sometimes Homosoto can be such an asshole. He doesn't really understand this business.
I wonder how he got into it in the first place. He remembered that he had to get Claude's virus properly analyzed and tested, so he sent it off to an American programmer who would perform a sanity-check on it.
That was the phone number of the Freedom BBS, established by Miles and several recruits that Alex had so ably located.
It was mid morning Arizona time.
Revere should be there. <<<<<<CONNECTION>>>>>> Welcome to the Freedom BBS Owned and Operated by the Information Freedom League (Non-profit) Are You a Member of the IFL?
Y ID: XXXXXXXXX PASSWORD: XXXXXXXX Pause . . . WELCOME TO THE FREEDOM BBS, MF.
Larry Johnson, a respected hacker from Milwau- kee, WI, was a founding member of the 401 Group over 10 years ago.
Since then he has been hacking systems success- fully and was caught after he added $10,000 to his bank account. GOOD FOR THE SECRET SERVICE!
Congratulations Guys! The IFL believes in a free exchange of information for all those who wish to be willing participants.
We whole-heart- edly condemn all computer activities that violate the law and code of computer ethics.
And a stroke of genius.
He patted himself ion the back every time he saw how effective Freedom, his computer warfare distribution system was. DO YOU WANT THE MAIN MENU?
No DO YOU WANT TO SPEAK TO REVERE?
PLEASE ENTER YOUR PIN: XXXX-XXXX Pause . . . MF?
IS THAT YOU? Betch'ure ass.
How's trix? SAME OL' SAME OL'.
YOU? Trying to make a profit.
Hey, we gotta talk. OUT LOUD? No whisper. OK.
LET ME SET IT. <<CRYPT KEY SELECTION>> Pause . . . <<CRYPT KEY EXCHANGE>> Pause . . . <<TRANSMISSION ENCODED>> MF? Still here. GOOD.
SURPRISES THE SHIT OUT OF ME EVERY TIME THIS WORKS. Me too. WHAT CAN I DO?
GOT ANOTHER PRESENT? Couple of days, sure.
Some doosies. WHAT'YA GOT? A graphics program that kicks the living shit out of VGA Master and Paint Man.
Deadly too. HOW? Copies portions of itself into Video RAM and treats it as a TSR. Next program you load gets infected from Video RAM and spreads from there.
Undetectable unless you're running debug at the same time and looking for it.
Then it stealths itself into all V-RAM applications and spreads outside the O/S. TRIGGERS? I forget the exact trigger mechanism, but it gives constant parity errors.
LOOKIN' GOOD. Also have a few Lotus utilities, a couple of games. THE GAMES ARE GOING GREAT GUNS.
WE SHOULD BE SELLING THEM IN THE STORES. How many? AS OF A WEEK AGO, MORE THAN 240,000 PACK-LADIES HAVE BEEN DOWN LOADED.
THAT'S OUR BEST SELLER. Anyone sending money? SURPRISINGLY, YES.
WE'RE TURNING A PROFIT. Shit.
That's not what we wanted. CAN'T KEEP A GOOD PROGRAM DOWN. Yeah Yeah Yeah.
Need some info. THAT'S OUR MIDDLE NAME.
WHAT DO YOU NEED? You hear about the First Bank hacker? SURE!
I GOT A DOZEN PEOPLE TAKING CREDIT FOR IT. You're kidding NO!
A LOT OF OUR FOLKS WOULD HAVE BEEN PROUD. Was it us? NO WAY. Then who, really? DAMNED IF I KNOW OR CARE. Care WHAT?
SINCE WHEN DO WE CARE ABOUT THE AMATEURS? Since now.
Things are heating up too soon.
I need to know who pulled the job. I CAN GET A LOT OF PEOPLE TO ADMIT IT, BUT I CAN'T VERIFY IT. Whoever did it is not likely to advertise it openly.
We may need to pull him into the open. GOTCHA Here's my thinking.
Assume the hack is just a kid.
He's getting no credit and receives a shitty allowance.
So, we offer a re- ward.
Whoever can prove that they are the one's who broke into First Bank, we'll send them a new 386.
Whatever, use your imagi- nation. THINK HE'LL BITE? If it's a pro, no. But this doesn't ring of a pro.
The news- papers know too much. AND IF WE FIND HIM? Just get me his number and shipping address.
Make sure he gets the computer too. OK BOSS.
ANYTHING ELSE? Keep up the good work.
I need the estimates. NO PROBLEM.
ACCORDING TO PLAN. Love it.
Peace. BYE, YOU MF. <<<<<<CONNECTION TERMINATED>>>>>> * * * * * Monday, December 7 New York City The phone on Scott Mason's desk had been unusually, but grateful- ly quiet.
Higgins had been able to keep the First State lawyers at bay with the mounds of information the paper had accumulated on MacMillan's doings.
The bank's stock was trading again, but at a dilution of over 75%.
Most individual customers had cashed out their accounts, including Higgins, and only those long term portfolios remained.
Scott's stories on First Bank had won him recognition by his peers.
No awards, but an accolade at the New York Journalists Club dinner.
Not bad, he thought. Now the hard work continued for him.
The full background analy- ses, additional proof, more witnesses now that Sidneys was under Federal indictment and out of work.
We gotta talk, I'm in trouble.
Kirk sounded panicked. "Damn Klingons," Scott cracked. "Seriously, I'm in trouble.
You gotta help me out." Scott realized this was no prank.
What happened?" "They found me, and they got into my computer and now it's gone . . .shit, I'm in trouble.
You gotta help me." "Kirk!
You're right, I'll call you tonight." Click. * * * * * Nightline was running its closing credits when Scott's home computer beeped at him.
KIRK. Now it was Scott's turn to be suspicious. Prove it. AW CMON Prove it. I CALLED YOU TODAY So did half of the crack pots in New York I'M IN TROUBLE So were the others. OK.
WE WENT THROUGH THE BANK AND HAD SOME FUN WITH PRESSED RAT AND WHARTHOG, INC. Good enough.
You sound as scared here as you did on the phone. I thought computers didn't have emotion. I DO. OK, what's up. THEY FOUND ME Who? THE PEOPLE FROM FIRST STATE BANK. How?
What? I RECEIVED A MESSAGE ON MY COMPUTER, E-MAIL.
OR ELSE. What did you do? CALLED A FEW FRIENDS WHO THINK THEY'RE FUNNY. And? HONOR AMONG THIEVES.
SO I FIGURED IT WAS FOR REAL. You sure? AS SURE AS I CAN BE.
EXCEPT YOU. And you think I did something. THE THOUGHT CROSSED MY MIND MORE THAN ONCE, I'LL TELL YOU.
BUT, I THINK I HAVE ELIMINATED YOU Thanks, Why? NO MOTIVATION.
I'M MORE USE TO YOU ALIVE THAN DEAD. Excuse me? AS LONG AS MY IDENTITY AND ACTIVITIES REMAIN SECRET, I'M ALIVE AS A HACKER AND CAN CONTINUE TO DO WHAT I DO.
BUT THAT'S NOT THE PROBLEM. What is? I CAME HOME THIS MORNING AND FOUND THAT SOMEONE BROKE IN AND TRASHED EVERYTHING.
AND THERE WAS A NOTE. What did it say? WE KNOW WHAT YOU'VE DONE.
IT WAS SIGNED FIRST STATE BANK. That doesn't make sense. WHAT DOESN'T Nobody except terrorists leave their calling card, and then only when they're sure they can't be caught.
I would bet dollars to donuts that First State had nothing to do with it. ARE YOU SURE? No, I'm not sure, not 100%, but it doesn't add up.
You've stepped on somebody's toes, and it may or may not have anything to do with First State.
They're just trying to scare you. AND DOING A DAMNED GOOD JOB OF IT Have you called the police. NO. NOT YET.
I'M NOT IN THE LINE OF WORK THEY PROBABLY APPROVE OF. So I see.
Who else knew about your trips through the bank, other than me.
I will assume I'm not the guilty party. A COUPLE OF HACKER FRIENDS, MY GIRLFRIEND, THAT'S ABOUT IT. No one else? NOT THAT I CAN THINK OF. Let me ask you.
If you wanted to find out who was hacking where, how would you find out?
Let's say you wanted to know what your friends were doing.
Is there a way? NOT WITHOUT A LOT OF EXPENSIVE EQUIPMENT.
NO. YOU WOULD HAVE TO TELL SOMEONE. And you told no one?
No one? WELL, THERE WAS FREEDOM. What's Freedom? FREEDOM IS A NATIONAL BBS SYSTEM.
IT'S FAIRLY NEW. What do they do? LIKE MOST BBS'S, IT'S AN OPEN FORUM FOR EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION, PROGRAMS, ETC. IT IS ONE OF THE LARGEST IN THE COUNTRY.
THEY ALSO RUN A SHARE- WARE SERVICE. Is that significant? MOST SHAREWARE COMPANIES SELL THEIR SOFTWARE ON OTHER PEOPLE'S BBS'S.
THEY BASICALLY HAVE THEIR OWN METHOD TO DISTRIBUTE THEIR SOFTWARE. Do they make money? WHO KNOWS.
VERY FEW SHAREWARE PEOPLE MAKE MONEY, AND FREEDOM SAYS ITS NON-PROFIT. Non-Profit did you say?
Are you sure? THAT'S WHAT THEY SAY. What's their number? I ONLY HAVE THE LA NUMBER. So you are from the Coast. SHIT.
I'M FROM THE COAST. That was an accident.
I really don't care. I KNOW.
I DON'T NEED MY COMPUTERS BEING BLOWN TO SMITHERINES TO TELL ME I'M BARKING UP THE WRONG TREE. Maybe it is the right tree. WHAT? Never mind.
So, you said you told them? WELL, KIND OF.
Get to them all. BUT HOW WOULD FIRST STATE KNOW ABOUT IT? I'm not saying they did.
Do you know any of the others who claimed responsibility? NOT PERSONALLY.
ONLY ONE GUY NAMED DA VINCI I'VE TALKED TO. Can you call him? SURE, HE'S ON FREEDOM ALL THE TIME. Don't use Freedom.
Is there any other way to contact him?
On another BBS? IT WOULDN'T BE HARD TO FIND OUT, BUT WHY NOT FREEDOM? Look.
This BBS may be the only link between the First State hack you and I were in on, by the way, did you use my name? DIDN'T NEED TO.
YOU'RE GETTING VERY WELL KNOWN. Thanks for the warning.
At any rate, you check it out with this Da Vinci character and once you know, just call me at the office, and say something like, the Mona Lisa frowned.
That means he got a message similar to yours.
If the Mona Lisa smiles, then we can figure out something else.
HEY, QUESTION. Answer. SERIOUSLY. I'm serious. WHAT DO YOU THINK'S GOING ON?
YOU BELIEVE IT'S HACKERS, DON'T YOU? bLet me ask you a question.
How many surrealistic painters does it take to screw in a lightbulb? I GIVE.
HOW MANY A fish. I DON'T UNDERSTAND That's the point.
Accord- ing to what you're saying, there may be some weirdness with Freedom.
What do you recommend so I can dig a little deeper? Into the whole cult of hacking.
Besides, I think we may need each other. HOW DO YOU MEAN? I think you should talk to the authorities. NO WAY Wait.
I have a friend, ex-friend, who knows about this kind of thing, at least a little, and he might be of some help to you.
I just don't think it should go unreported.
Would you talk to him? LIVE OR MEMOREX? He probably would want a face to face, but I can't say for sure. FORGET IT.
AT LEAST I CAN TELL YOU WHERE TO GO. So can a lot of people. REALLY.
NEXT WEEK, THERE'S A CONVENTION OF SORTS FOR HACKERS. A convention? WELL, IT'S MORE LIKE AN UNDERGROUND MEETING, A LARGE ONE.
YOU CAN'T BE A BULL IN A CHINA SHOP. In other words, reporters are taboo. KIND OF.
IT'S A VERY PRIVATE CLUB. Where is this meeting? IN AMSTERDAM. Holland? YUP. Why there? SIN CITY IS AS GOOD FOR HACKERS AS IT IS FOR DRUGS AND SEX.
THE POLICE DON'T GIVE A SHIT WHAT YOU DO. What goes on? BESIDES THE USUAL AMSTERDAM ANTICS?
Is that really what they call it? NAH, JUST A TERM WE USE.
IT WAS SECOND RATE INFORMATION, FIRST STATE IS NOT EXACT- LY YOUR HIGH PROFILE BANK TO CRACK. Understood.
How do I get in, what's it called? IT'S CALLED THE INTERGALACTIC HACKERS CONFERENCE, I-HACK FOR SHORT.
ONLY THE BEST GET TO GO. You're kidding.
So what do you do to get me in? I CALL YOU AGAIN.
I'LL GET YOU AN INVITE. That's great, I really appreciate that.
Will you be there? NOT THIS YEAR.
DON'T ACT LIKE A REPORTER. PARANOIA RUNS RAMPANT. Will anyone talk to me, as a reporter? THAT'S UP TO YOU.
A neutral country, as is Switzerland, it contains the highest concentration of KGB and CIA operatives in the world.
The agreed upon location was the third bench from St. Stephen's Cathedral on the Stephansplatz, where Vienna's main street, Karntnerstrasse-Rotenturmstrasse changes names.
No traffic is allowed on the square, on Kartnerstrasse or on Graben- strasse, so it is always packed with shoppers, tourists and street musicians.
Ideal for a discreet meeting. "Have you ever seen Vienna from Old Steffel?
A deep voice came from behind where Martin was seated.
He looked around and saw it was Alex. "Many years ago.
But I prefer the Prater.
He spoke of the fairgrounds 2 kilometers from town where the world's oldest Ferris Wheel offered an unparalleled view of the Viennese sur- rounds.
Templer smiled at his old ally from the German Bunde- poste.
Today though, Alex was an asset to the Agency, as he had been since he had gone freelance some years ago.
An expensive asset, but always with quality information. "Did you know that St. Stephen's," Alex gestured at the pollu- tion stained church, "is one of the finest examples of Gothic architecture in Europe?
And Vienna's paradox?" Templer had never been a history buff.
He shook his head. "Most of Vienna is Baroque, in fine fashion, but there are iso- lated examples of Gothic.
Yet, they seem to coexist.
In peace." Alex's poetic words rolled off of his well educated tongue.
The allegory was not lost on Templer.
Western and Eastern intelli- gence services used Vienna as a no-man's land, where information and people were regularly exchanged. "It is a new world," commented Templer.
The threats are differ- ent." Alex took the hint.
Let us walk," he urged. They slowly strolled up the Kartnerstrasse as the Austrian night- life took on its own distinct flavor. "How long has it been, my friend?
He disliked rushing into business, the way the Americans favored. "Damned if I know.
We've had some good times." "'85, '86 was it?
So much travel blurs the senses.
Alex wrin- kled his forehead in thought.
Wasn't it the Pelton affair? Yes, that would be summer of '85.
He referred to Ron Pelton, the ex-NSA analyst who sold American cryptographic secrets to the Soviets. "Yeah," Templer laughed.
I'd forgotten all about that.
Never would have caught on to the scam if it weren't for Slovnov.
The KGB should tell their own to stay out of the Moulin Rouge.
Ivan had to trade Slovnov for Pelton.
We didn't find out for a year that they wanted Pelton out anyway.
He was too fucked up for them." "And now?
Who do you spy on since Sam and Ivan are brothers again?
Alex openly enjoyed speaking obliquely. "Spy?
I got pushed upstairs. Interagency cooperation, political bullshit.
I do miss the streets though, and the friends . . .on both sides." "Don't you mean on all sides?
Cocktail semantics made Alex occasionally annoying. "No, I mean both.
At least we had class; we knew the rules and how to play.
Now every third rate country tries to stick their nose in and they screw it up.
I have missed our talks and our disagreements.
I never could talk you into something you did not believe in, could I?" Alex slapped Templer lightly on his back.
Templer didn't answer. "Ah, you look so serious.
You came for business, not old memo- ries?" "No, Alex, I'd love to chat, and we will, but I do need to get a couple of questions answered, and then, I can relax.
Perhaps a trip to Club 24?
Templer pointed at the bright yellow kiosk with the silhouettes of naked women emblazoned on it.
For a mere $300, you can buy a bottle of Chevas Regal and share it with one or two or more of the lovely skimpily clad ladies who adorned the bar seats.
All else was negotiable in private. "Done.
What can I do for you?
Alex ap- proved of the plan. "I need some information," Templer said seriously. "That is my business, of course." "We have a problem in the States . . ." "As usual," Alex interrupted. "Yes," Templer grinned, "as usual.
But this one is not usual. Someone, someone with connections, is apparently using computers as a blackmail tool.
The FBI is investigating domestically, and, well, it's our job, to look outside.
So, I figure, call Alex. That's why I'm here." Alex disguised his surprise.
How had they found him?
He now needed to find out what, if anything, they knew. "Blackmail?
That's not a lot to go on.
Alex main- tained absolute composure. "Here's what we know.
There appears to be a wholesale blackmail operation in place.
With the number of com- plaints we have gotten over the last few months, we could guess that maybe 10, or 20 people, maybe more are involved.
They're after the big boys; the banks, some senators, folks with real money and power.
And it's one professional job.
They seem to get their information from computers, from the radiation they emanate.
It's something we really want to keep quiet." Alex listened quietly.
If Templer was being straight, they didn't know much, certainly not the scope of the operation nor Alex's own involvement.
It was possible, though, that Templer was playing dumb, and trying to elicit clues from Alex.
If he was a suspect. "What sort of demands are being made?
Alex was going to play the game to the hilt. "None.
What kind of black- mail is that?
Alex ineffectively stifled a laugh.
This sounds like some Washington paranoia.
You really don't know what to do without an adversary, so you create one," Alex chuck- led. "Alex, c'mon.
No shit, we got some muckity mucks with their heads in a tail spin and our asses in a sling.
I don't know what's happening, but, whatever it is, it's causing a pile of shit bigger than Congress and smellier." "And you thought I might know something about it?
Alex ven- tured. "Well, no, or yes, or maybe," Templer said coyly.
And then, who's also got the technology to do it.
There must be a lot of smart people and money in on it.
You have the best ears in Europe.
The compli- ment might help. "Thank you for the over-statement, but I have only a small group on whom I can rely.
Certainly your own agency can find out before I can.
Deniability and humility could raise the ante. "We have our good days, but too many bad days.
Templer was being sincere concluded Alex.
Listen, I need the streets.
If there's nothing, then there's nothing.
It could be domestic, but it smells of outside influence.
Can you help?" Alex stopped to light up a non-filtr Gaulloise.
He inhaled deeply as his eyes scanned the clear sky.
He wanted to have Templer think there might be something. "How much is this information worth?
Alex was the perfect mercenary, absolutely no allegiance to anyone other than himself. "We have about fifty grand for good info.
But for that price, it had better be good." Alex had to laugh to himself at the American's naivete.
Homosoto was paying him a hundred times that for one job.
Being a free- lancer means treating all customers as equals, and there was no way he would jeopardize his planned retirement for a cause or for a friend.
This would be easy. "Phew!
Hot off the griddle, huh?
I'll see who knows what.
It may take a while, a week, ten days, but I'll get back to you with anything I find.
No promises, though." "I know it's a long shot, but we have to look at all angles.
He had just recruited, for no money down, the best source of information in Europe.
Let's go have a bottle of Chevas.
The Ameri- can taxpayer was about to pay for the sexual relief of a merce- nary enemy. Alex made it home at 4:00 A.M. after the romp in Club 24.
Or was it Club 1?
He no longer knew, no cared.
Despite his intense intoxication, he had to talk to his employer.
Somehow he managed to get his computer alive.
He quickly entered his opening words before the connection would shut down. I have been contacted. Homosoto apparently never went home.
He got an immediate re- sponse. BY WHOM The CIA The screen paused for several seconds.
Alex was too drunk to notice. HOW? An old frrrriend.
He called for a meeeeeeting. WHAT DID HE WANT? He asked about the US operations. HOW MUCH DOES HE KNOW? They kkknnow about the blackmail.
But, they're fishing FISH Looking for answers.
They know nothing. TELL ME MORE.
I AM NOT HAPPY. The FBI is looking for an answer, who is behind the propaganda. They think it is very important, take it seriously.
They brought in the CIA and, probably, the NSA.
We should be pleased. AND THE PRESS?
IS IT IN THE PAPERS? No, it was suppressed.
The Government still controls the press. AND YOU.
WHY CONTACT YOU? The same reason you did.
It is pure coincidence. I AM NOT CONVINCED. An old friend, a colleague, called for a meeting.
He asked for my help.
He tried to hire me to find out if it was foreign. WHAT DID YOU SAY? I told him the streets, the rumors, know nothing.
That is true. He never suspected me.
He offered me money to give him information. HOW MUCH MONEY? $50,000 US I PAY YOU A THOUSAND TIMES THAT No, only 100 times. DOES IT MATTER? Only if they equal your money. MAKE SURE THEY DO NOT.
IT IS NOT WORTH YOUR LIFE. The CIA does not have that kind of money.
That is why the Rus- sians learned so much for so little.
The US does not think they should pay to keep their secrets. THEY ARE WRONG.
WE CALL IT INSURANCE. They call it blackmail.
They do not have the funds. WHAT WILL YOU TELL THEM? I will tell them that it is not from here.
No, it must be from the US.
I will charge them for that information. AND THEY WILL BELIEVE YOU? If I make them pay, yes.
If I give it for free, no. That's the American way.
They will believe what is easiest to believe. They do not know that this is my last job.
If they think that, they will suspect me.
And then, you. WHY ME? They will use drugs I cannot resist.
So, I must make sure I help them. AND IF THEY OFFER MONEY.
AS MUCH AS I DO? Then we negotiate. THEN YOU WILL DIE. <<<<<<CONNECTION TERMINATED>>>>>> **************************************************************** Chapter 16 Wednesday, December 9 New York The late afternoon pace of the City Room at the Times tended to be chaotic.
As deadlines approached and the paper was laid out for the printers, the flurry of activity was associated with an increase in the loudness of the room.
Scott Mason listened with one hand over his right ear and the phone so awkwardly pressed between his left ear and shoulder that his glasses sat askew on his face.
Suddenly hanging up the phone, Scott sprung up shout- ing, "I got it.
Several people stopped and stared in his direction, but seeing nothing of concern or interest to them, they returned to their own world. Scott ripped a page from a notebook and ran into and around his co-workers.
Confirmed by the President." "You're kidding me?
Doug stopped his red pencil mid-stroke. "Give it to me from the top.
He turned in his swivel chair to face Scott more directly. "It goes like this.
A few weeks ago Sovereign Bank in Atlanta found that someone had entered their central computers without permission.
It didn't take long for them to find the intruder.
He left a calling card.
It said that the hackers had found a hole to crawl through undetected into their computers.
Was the bank interested in knowing how it was done?
They left a Compuserve Mail Box. "As you can imagine the bank freaked out and told their computer people to fix whatever it was.
They called in the FBI, that's from my contact, and went on an internal rampage.
Those good ol' boys don't trust nobody," Scott added sounding like a poor imita- tion of Andy from Mayberry. "Anybody that could spell computer was suspect and they turned the place upside down.
Found grass, cocaine, ludes, a couple of weapons and a lot of people got fired.
But no state secrets. You talk about a dictatorship," commented Scott on the side. "There's no privacy at all.
They found nada. So they tighten the reins and give away less passwords, to less people.
That's all they figured they could do." "This is where the fun starts.
Scott actively gestured with his hands as he shifted weight to his other foot.
A few days later they discover another message in their computer.
Says something like, 'sorry Charlie' or something to that effect.
And this time they wanted to sell their services to the bank.
For a nominal fee, say, a million bucks, we'll show you how to sew up the holes." "Well, what does that sound like to you?
Scott asked Doug. "Extortion." "Exactly, and ape-shit doesn't begin to describe what the bank did.
We'll pay you a million bucks as consultants for 10 years.
You agree to stay out of the machines unless we need you.
Immunity unless you break the deal." "What happened?
Doug said with rapt attention. "Sovereign bank now has three fourteen year old consultants at a hundred grand a year," Scott said choking with laughter on his words. "You're kidding," exclaimed Doug slapping his knees. "No shit.
And everyone is pretty happy about it.
The kids have a way to pay for a good college, they're bright little snots, and they get off.
The bank figures it's making an investment in the future and actually may have gotten off cheap.
It woke them up to the problems they could face if their computers did go down for a month.
Or if they lost all their records.
Or if someone really wanted to do damage.
Thoughts like that trigger a panic attack in any bank exec.
They'd rather deal with the kids. "In fact, they're turning it into a public relations coup.
Dig this," Scott knew the story like the back of his hand.
The bank realized that they could fix their security problems for a couple of million bucks.
Not much of an investment when you're guarding billions.
So they design a new ad campaign: Sovereign.
The Safest Your Money Can Be." "Now that's a story," said Doug approvingly.
Important, fun, human, and everyone comes out a winner.
A story with a moral. Confirmed?" "Every bit.
They announce it all tomorrow and we print tonight with their blessing.
What did you have to do . . ?" "Nothing.
He likes the work we've been doing on the computer capers and crime and all and thought that we would give it fair coverage.
I think they're handling it like absolute gentlemen." "How fast do you type?" "Forty mistakes a minute.
Why?" "You got 40 minutes to deadline." * * * * * Friday, December 11 Washington, D.C. Throughout his years of Government service at the National Secu- rity Agency, Miles Foster had become a nine to fiver.
Rarely did he work in the evening or on weekends.
So the oddball hours he had to work during his association with Homosoto were irritating and made him cranky.
He could function well enough, and cranki- ness was difficult to convey over a computer terminal, but work- ing nights wasn't much to his liking.
It interfered with his social responsibilities to the women. The master plan Miles had designed years ago for Homosoto was now calling for phase two to go into effect.
The beauty of it all, thought Miles, was that it was unstoppable.
Too much had already gone into play to abort the mission.
Inside, perhaps deep inside, Miles cared, but he seemed to only be aware of the technical results of his efforts in distinction to the human element.
The human elements of frustration, depression, help- lessness - a social retreat of maybe fifty years, that was going to be the real devastation above and beyond the machinery.
Just the way Homosoto wanted it.
To hurt deep down. Miles had come to learn of the intense hatred that Homosoto felt toward the United States.
In his more callous moments, especial- ly when he and Homosoto were at odds over any particular subject, Miles would resort to the basest of verbal tactics. "You're just pissed off 'cause we nuked your family.
It was meant to sting and Homosoto's reactions were unpredictable. Often violent, he had once thrown priceless heirlooms across his office shattering in a thousand shards.
The plans they formulated were coming together though Miles had no direct control over many pieces.
The Readers were run by another group altogether; Miles only knew they were fundamentalist fanatics.
He didn't really care as long as the job was getting done.
And the groundhogs; he designed them, but they were managed by others.
Propaganda, yet another, just as the plan called for.
Extreme compartmentalization, even at the highest level. Only Homosoto knew all the players and therefore had the unique luxury of viewing the grand game being played.
Though Miles designed every nuance, down to the nth degree of how to effect the invasion properly, he was not privileged to push the chessmen around the board.
His rationalization was that he was being paid a great deal of money for the job, and he was working for a more important cause, one that would make it all worthwhile.
In the intelligence game, on the level that he had operated while with the NSA, he would receive information, process it, make recommendation and determinations, and that was that.
Over. Next. Now though, Miles had designed the big picture, and that meant long range planning.
He was in control, only partially, as he was meant to be.
He was impressed with the operation.
That nothing had gone awry so far consoled Miles despite the fact that Homosoto called him almost every day to ask about another computer crime he had heard about. This time is was Sovereign Bank.
Once Miles gave him an expla- nation, he let the matter drop.
But, as Miles continually reassured Homosoto, they were small timers with no heinous motivation.
They were mostly kids who played chicken with computers instead of chasing cars or smoking crack.
A far better alternative, Miles offered. Just kids having a little fun with the country's most important computer systems.
How anyone can leave the front door to their computer open, or with the keys lying around, was beyond him.
Fucking stupid. His stream of consciousness was broken when his NipCom computer announced that Homosoto was calling.
I bet some high school kids changed their school grades and Homosoto thinks the Rosenburgs are behind it.
Paranoid gook. <<<<<<TRANSMISSION ENCRYPTED>>>>>> MR FOSTER That's me.
ALL IS WELL. That's a change.
Nobody fucking with your Ninten- do, huh? YOUR HUMOR ESCAPES ME, AT TIMES S'pozed 2 WHAT? Never Mind.
What do you need? WE ARE CLOSE I know. OF COURSE YOU DO.
A BRIEF REPORT PLEASE. Sure.
Freedom is doing better than expected.
Over a million now, maybe a million and a half.
The majors are sick, real sick. Alex has kept my staff full, and we're putting out dozens of viruses a week.
On schedule. GOOD I'm gonna be out for a few days.
I'll call when I get back. SHOULDN'T YOU STAY WHERE YOU CAN BE REACHED? I carry a portable.
I will check my computer, as I always do. You have never had trouble reaching me. THAT IS TRUE.
WHERE DO YOU GO? Amsterdam. HOLLAND?
I need a break anyway, so I thought I might as well make it a working vacation.
The top hackers get together and stroke themselves, but I could pick something up. Useful to us. DO BE CAREFUL, YOU ARE VALUABLE.
NO ONE CAN KNOW WHO YOU ARE. No one does.
I use my BBS alias.
Spook. * * * * * San Francisco, California Sir George Sterling checked his E-Mail for messages.
There were only 2, both from Alex.
The one week holiday had been good for Sir George.
To the letter. Not so much in deference to the implicit threats issued him by Alex, over computer and untraceable of course, but by the pros- pect of continued income.
He came to enjoy the work.
But he never threatened anyone, his instructions were explicit; never threaten.
So therefore, he reasoned, he must actually be making threats, no matter how veiled. He rather enjoyed it all.
Not hurting people, that wasn't his nature, but he savored impressing people with his knowledge and noting their reactions for his daily reports back to Alex.
In the evenings Sir George searched out small American recreational centers inaccurately referred to as pubs.
In fact they were disguised bars with darts and warm beer, but it gave Sir George the chance to mingle and flash his assumed pedigree.
When asked what he did for a living, he truthfully said, "I talk to people." About what?
Alex had informed him one day that he was to take a holiday and return ready for a new assignment, one to which now he was ideally suited.
Sir George smiled to himself.
A job well done, and additional rewards.
All E-Mail was encrypted with the Public Private RSA algorithm, so he had to manually decrypt the messages with his private key and save them unencrypted.
When he was done, he erased the file completely, to keep anyone else from discovering the nature of his work.
Alex's first message was dated two days before he returned from Hawaii.
It was actually cordial, as far as Alex could be considered cordial.
After their first meeting in Athens, Alex had taken on a succinct if not terse tone in all communications. Sir George: Welcome back.
I hope you had a most enjoyable holiday.
It was well deserved. We now enter phase two of our operations.
We place much faith in your ability and loyalty.
Please do not disrupt that confidence. As in the past, you will be given daily lists of people to call.
They are some of the people whom you have called before.
As before, identify yourself and the nature of your call.
Please be your usual polite self. Alex The second message was more Alex-like: Sir George: If you have any problems with your new assignment, please call me to arrange your termination. Alex. * * * * * "Hello?
Sir George Sterling spoke with as much elegance he could muster.
This is John Fullmaster calling again for Robert Henson.
Sir George remembered the name but not the specifics. "One moment please," Maggie said.
She said after dialing his intercom extension.
It's John Fullmaster for you. Line three" "Who?" "Mr. Fullmaster.
He called once several months ago.
I thought he was a bad dream.
Never did figure how he knew about the Winston Ellis scam.
Good thing that's been put to bed and over. "All right, I'll take it.
He punched up the third line. "Yeah?
He said defiantly. "Mr. Henson?
I believe we spoke a while back about some of your dealings?
Do you recall?" "Yes, I recall you bastard, but you're too late.
The deal closed last month.
So you can forget your threats.
Fuck off and die." Henson used his best boardroom belligerence. "Oh, I am sorry that you thought I was threatening you, I can assure you I wasn't.
Sir George oozed politeness. "Bullshit.
I don't know how the blazes you learned anything about my business, and I don't really care . . ." "I think you might care, sir, if you will allow me to speak for a moment.
The sudden interruption caught Henson off guard.
He stood his ground in silence. "Thank you.
Sir George waited for an acknowledgement which never arrived, so he continued.
Winston Ellis is old news, Mr. Henson, very old news.
I read today, though, that Miller Pharma- ceuticals is about to have its Anti-AIDS drug turned down by the FDA.
Apparently it still has too many side effects and may be too dangerous for humans.
I'm sure you've read the reports yourself.
Don't you think it would be wise to tell your investors before they sink another $300 Million into a black hole from which there is no escape?
The aristocratic British accent softened the harshness of the words, but not the auger of the meaning. Henson seethed.
I don't know who you are," he hissed, "but I will not listen to this kind of crap.
I won't take it from . . ." "Sorry," Sir George again interrupted, "but I'm afraid you will listen.
The instructions are as follows.
I want $5 Million in small bills in a silver Samsonite case to be placed into locker number 235 at Grand Central Station, first level.
You have 48 hours to comply.
If you do not have the money there, we will release these findings to the media and the SEC which will no doubt prompt an investigation into this and other of your deal- ings.
Don't you think?" Blackmail was anathema to Robert Henson, although he should have felt quite comfortable in its milieu.
It was effectively the same stunt he performed on many of his investors.
Nobody treats Robert Henson this way, nobody.
He needed time to think.
The last time Fullmaster called it was a bluff, obviously, but then there were no demands.
This time, he wanted something.
But, how did he know?
The FDA reports were still confidential, and he hoped to have completed raising the funds before the reports became public, another few weeks at most.
He counted on ineffi- cient government bureaucracy and indifference to delay any an- nouncement.
Meanwhile though, he would pocket several millions in banking fees. "You got me.
Right?" "Very good, Mr. Henson.
I'm glad you see it my way.
It has been a pleasure doing business with you.
Sir George sounded like a used car salesman.
Oh, yes, I almost forgot.
Please, Mr. Hen- son, no police.
In that case, our deal is off." "Of course, no police.
Thanks for the call." Henson hung up.
No money, no way. * * * * * "Mr. Faulkner, this is John Fullmaster.
Sir George was sicken- ingly sweet.
Do you recall our last conversation?" How couldn't he?
This was the only call he had received on his private line since that maniac had last called.
Faulkner had had the number changed at least a half a dozen times since, as a matter of course, but still, Fullmaster, if that was his real name, reached him with apparent ease. "Yes, I remember," he said tersely.
Sir George instinctively thought Faulkner was a California slime ball, never mind his own actions, and he briefly thought that he might actually be work- ing for the side of good after all. "You have a real doctor's bedside manner.
What do you want?" Faulkner conveyed extreme nervousness. "I think, under the circumstances that, shall we say, oh, one million would do it.
Yes, that sounds fair." "One million?
Faulkner shrieked from his pool side lounge chair. "Yessir, that sounds just about right.
Sir George paused for effect.
Now here is what I want you to do.
Go to Las Vegas, and have your credit extended, and acquire small bills.
Then, place the money in a silver Samsonite case at Union Station. Locker number 12.
British humor at its best. "Simple, yes.
Possible, no," Faulkner whispered in terror. "Oh, yes, it is possible, as you well know.
You cleared up the $2.4 Million you owed Caesar's only last week.
Your credit is excellent." "There's no way you can know that . . .
Then it occurred to him.
He wasn't losing enough at the tables, they wanted more.
Losing money was one thing, his way, but a sore winner is the worst possible enemy.
There was only one way out. "All right, all right.
And, I probably needn't mention it, but no police." "Of course," Faulkner smiled to himself.
At last the nightmare would be over. "Thank you so very much.
Have a nice day." * * * * * "Merrill!
Merrill, do you hear me?" Ken Boyers tried to get Senator Rickfield out from the centerfold of the newest Playboy.
Now what is it?" Rickfield put the magazine down, slowly, for one last lustful gaze. "Merrill, that Fullmaster fellow, the one who called about the Credite Suisse arrangements . . ." "Shut up!
We don't talk about that in this office, you know that!
Rickfield admonished Ken. "I know, but he doesn't," he said, pointing at the blinking light on the Senator's desk phone. "I thought he went away.
Nothing ever came of it, did it?" "No, nothing, after we got General Young onto it," Boyers ex- plained.
I thought he took care of it, in his own way.
The problem just disappeared like it was supposed to." "Well," Rickfield said scornfully, "obviously it didn't.
Give me the goddamned phone.
He picked it up and pressed the lighted button.
His senatorial dignity was absent as he spoke. "This is Rickfield.
Who is this?" "Ah, thank you for taking my call.
Sir George spoke slowly, more slowly than necessary.
This call was marked critical.
That meant, don't screw it up.
My name is John Fullmaster and I believe we spoke about some arrangements you made with General Young and Credite Suisse." "I remember.
That has nothing to do with me," Rick- field retorted.
He grabbed a pen and wrote down the name, John Fullmaster.
Ken looked at the scribbled writing and shrugged his shoulders. "Ah, but I'm afraid it does.
I see here that Allied Dynamics recently made a significant contribution to a certain account in Credite Suisse.
There are only two signators on the passbook. It also says here that they will be building two new factories in your state.
I am sure your constitu- ents would be proud." The color drained from Rickfield's face.
He put his hand over the mouthpiece to speak privately to Ken.
Who else knows? Don't bullshit me, boy.
Who else have you told?" "No one!
Boyers said in genuine shock.
I want to enjoy the money, not pay attorney's fees." Rickfield waved Boyers away.
He appeared satisfied with the response.
Claude Pepper held the record and Merrill Rickfield's ego wanted to establish new definitions of tenure. His involvement with General Chester Oliver Young was recent, in political terms; less than a decade.
But Young had bigger and better ideas. He saw countless ways to spend taxpayers money protecting them from the Communist threat of the Evil Empire, but had difficulty getting support from his two and three star superiors.
It didn't take him long to realize that he had been token promoted to keep his mouth shut about certain prominent people's roles in the Vietnam era.
Over the course of a few years, he and Senator Rickfield became fast friends, holding many of the same global views and fears, if not paranoias.
When Allied Dynamics began losing Congressional support for an advanced jet helicopter project, Young went to Rickfield for help.
After all, Allied was headquartered in Rickfield's home state, and wouldn't it be a great boon to the economy?
Yet, Rickfield found an uncontrolled desire for more; considerations was his word for it, just as he had grown used to wielding power and influence in the nation's capital.
Rickfield was hooked, and Credite Suisse was the cer- tain Swiss bank in question.
Ken Boyers was involved as well, almost from the start.
They both had a lot to lose. "No, I must assume that you are not a fool, and I know for a fact I am not one, so on that one point we do agree.
Political pausing often allowed your opponent to hang himself with addi- tional oration.
Rickfield found the technique useful, especial- ly on novices.
Sir George said with a hint of patronization.
To be brief, Senator, I want you to keep your money, I think that dedicated civil servants like yourself are grossly underpaid and underappreciated.
No sir, I do not wish to deny you the chance to make your golden years pleasant after such a distinguished career." "Then what is it.
What do you want from me?
The Senator was doodling nervously while Ken paced the room trying to figure out what was being said at the other end of the phone. "I'm glad you asked," said Sir George.
Beginning next month you are chairing a sub-committee that will be investigating the weaknesses and potential threats to government computer systems. As I remember it is called the Senate Select Sub-Committee on Privacy and Technology Containment.
Is that right?" "Yes, the dates aren't firm yet, and I haven't decided if I will chair the hearings or assign it to another committee member.
So what?" "Well, we want you to drag down the hearings.
Nothing more." Sire George stated his intention as a matter of fact rather than a request. Rickfield's face contorted in confusion.
Exactly what does that mean, to you, that is?" "We want you to downplay the importance of security for govern- ment computers.
That there really is no threat to them, and that government has already met all of its obligations in balance with the new world order, if you will.
The threats are mere scare tactics by various special interest groups and government agencies who are striving for long term self preservation.
Sir George had practiced his soliloquy before calling Senator Rick- field. "What the hell for?
What's it to you?" "I am not at liberty to discuss our reasons.
Suffice it to say, that we would be most pleased if you see to it that the hearings have minimal substance and that no direct action items are deliv- ered.
I believe that term you Americans so eloquently use is stonewall, or perhaps filibuster?" "They're not the same things." "Fine, but you do understand nonetheless.
We want these hearings to epitomize the rest of American politics with procrastination, obfuscation and procedural gerrymandering.
Sir George had learned quite a bit about the political system since he had moved to the States. "And to what aim?
Rickfield's political sense was waving red flags. "That's it.
Nothing more." "And in return?
This is blackmail?" "No. Yes.
Yes, it is blackmail, but without the usual messiness.
Rickfield was looking at his options which seemed to be somewhere between few and none.
Maybe he only had one. "That would be so unfortunate.
Sir George smiled as he spoke. "The media will receive a two page letter, it is already pre- pared I can assure you, detailing your illegal involvements with Allied, General Young and Mr. Boyers." "What's in it for you?
You don't want any money?
The confusion in Rickfield's mind was terribly obvious, and he was sliding on a logical Mobius loop. "No Senator, no money.
Merely a favor." "I will let you know what I decide.
May I have your number?" "I do not need to contact you again.
Your answer will be evident when the hearings begin.
Whatever course you pursue, we will make an appropriate response." * * * * * "Scott!
A woman called across the noisy floor.
Is your phone off the hook?" "Yeah, why?
He looked up and couldn't match the voice with a person. "You gotta call." "Who is it?
I'm busy." "Some guy from Brooklyn sounds like.
Says he got a package for you?" Holy shit.
The one who had caused him so much work, so much research without being able to print one damn thing. Not yet. "Yeah, OK.
The phone rang instantly and Scott rushed to pick it up on the first ring. "Yeah, Scott Mason here.
It's me, your friend, rememba?
No one could forget the accent that sounded more fake than real.
He had been nicknamed Vito for reference purposes by Scott. "Sure do, fella," Scott said cheerily.
That bunch of shit you sent me was worthless.
Garbage." "Yeah, well, we may have fucked up a little on that.
Didn't count on youse guys having much in the ethics department if youse know what I mean.
Vito laughed at what he thought was a pretty good joke.
So, we all screw up, right?
Never mind that, I got something real good, something youse really gonna like." "Sure you do." "No, really, dig this.
I gotta list of names that . . . " "Great another list.
Another list." "Whad'ar'ya, a wise guy?
Youse wanna talk or listen?
That's better, cause youse gonna like this. Some guy named Faulkner, big shit banker from La La Land is borrowing money from the mob to pay off a blackmailer.
Another guy, right here in New York Shitty, a Wall Street big shot called Henson, him too.
Another one named Dobbs, same thing.
All being blackballed by the same guys.
Youse want more?" "I'm writing, quiet.
Faulkner, Henson and Dobbs, right?" "That's whad'I said, yeah." "So how come you know so much?" "That's my job.
I gotta check it out.
That last stuff was . . ." "Hey!
Vito interrupted, "I told youse 'bout that.
Eh, paysan, what's a slip up among friends, right?" "I'll ignore that.
Gimme a couple of days, I'll call you." "Like hell you will.
You'll see, this is good stuff.
Two days." Click. * * * * * Monday, December 14 Washington, D.C. The FBI runs a little known counter intelligence operation from the middle of a run down Washington, D.C. neighborhood on Half Street.
Getting in and out is an exercise in evasive not to mention defensive driving.
The South East quadrant of Washing- ton, D.C. is vying for the drug capital of the nation, and per- haps has the dubious distinction of having the highest murder rate per capita in the United States.
On the domestic front the FBI Counter Intelligence Group is assigned to locate and monitor alien intelligence activities.
The CIA is under the impression that it con- trols all foreign investigations, even if they tread upon United States territory.
This line of thinking has been a constant source of irritation and inefficiency since the OSS became the CIA during the Truman administration.
Only during the Hoover reign at the FBI days was there any sense of peaceful coexist- ence.
Hoover did what he damn well pleased, and if anyone stood in his way, he simply called up the White House and had the roadblock removed.
Kennedy era notwithstanding, Hoover held his own for a 50 year reign. Tyrone Duncan received an additional lesson on inter-agency rivalry when he was called down to Half Street.
His orders were similar to those he had received from the safe house in George- town months before.
Stick to your hackers and viruses, period, he was told.
If it smells of foreign influence, let the CI fight it out with Langley.
Keep your butt clean. In 25 years of service, Tyrone had never been so severely admon- ished for investigating a case that he perceived as being domes- tic in nature.
The thought of foreign influences at work had not occurred to him, until CI brought it up. As far as he was concerned the quick trip from New York to Half Street was a bureaucratic waste of time and money.
However, during the fifteen minute discussion he was told by his CI compa- triots that both the blackmail and the ECCO investigations situa- tions had international repercussions and he should keep his nose out of it.
That only meant one thing.
He was pushing someone's button and he didn't know how, where or why.
The Trump Shuttle flight back to La Guardia gave Tyrone time to think about it, and that only incensed him further. Aren't we all on the same team?
If I stumbled onto something, and you want me to back off, O.K., but at least let me know what I'm missing. Twenty five years and a return to Hoover paranoia.
He under- stood, and advocated, the need for secrecy, privacy and the trappings of confidentiality.
But, compartmentalization of information this extreme was beyond the normal course to which he was accustomed.
The whole thing stunk. He arrived back at New York's Federal Square during lunch hour. Normally there was a minimal staff at that hour, or hour and half or two hours depending upon your rank.
When the elevator doors opened on Level 5, seventy feet under lower Manhattan, he walked into a bustle of activity normally present only when visiting heads of state need extraordinary security.
He was immediately accosted by eager subordinates.
The onslaught of questions overwhelmed him, so he ignored them and walked through the maze directly to his office. His head ringing, he plopped himself down behind his desk.
He stared at the two agents who followed him all the way, plus his secretary stood in the open door, watching with amusement. Duncan was not appreciative of panic situations.
His silence was contagious. "Who's first?
He asked quietly. The two agents looked at each other and one spoke.
Uh, sir, I think we have a lead in the blackmail operation.
Duncan looked at the other, offering him a chance to speak. "Yessir, it seems to have broken all over at once.
Duncan opened his eyes wide in anticipation.
Well, he, thought, go on. The first agent picked up the ball.
The blackmailers are making demands.
So far we have six individuals who said they were recontacted by the same person who had first called them a year ago." Duncan sat upright.
I want a complete report, here, in 1 hour. We'll talk then.
They took their cue to exit and brushed by, Tyrone's secretary on their way out the door. "Yes, Gloria?
Duncan treated her kindly, not with the adminis- trative brusqueness he often found necessary to motivate some of his agents. "Good morning, or afternoon, sir.
She knew he hated sudden trips to D.C.
It was her way of teasing her boss. "Wonderful!
Tyrone beamed with artificial enthusiasm.
Book me on the same flights every day for a month.
Definite E-ticket ride." "Do you remember a Franklin Dobbs?
He was here some time ago, about, I believe the same matter you were just discussing?
Her demureness pampered Duncan. "Dobbs?
Yes, why?" "He's been waiting all morning.
Had to see you, no on else. Shall I show him in?" "Yes, by all means, thank you." "Mr. Dobbs, how good to see you again.
Please," Duncan pointed at a chair in front of his desk.
How may I help you?" Dobbs shuffled over to the chair and practically fell into it. He sighed heavily and looked down at his feet.
I guess it's all over.
All over." "What do you mean?
My secretary, said you were being blackmailed again.
I think you should know I'm not working on that case anymore." "This time it's different," Dobbs said, his eyes darting about. "They want money, a lot of money, more than we have.
If they wanted the information, why call me and tell me?
We haven't been able to figure it out." "What about the others," Duncan thought out loud.
The others with access to the information?" "Everyone is suspecting everyone else.
Now, after this, I'm thinking of packing it in." "Why now?
I can't believe it's my competitors.
Sure, it's a cut throat business, but, no, it's hard to believe." "Stranger things have happened, Mr. Dobbs.
Duncan tried to be soothing.
The demands, what were they?" "They want three million dollars, cash.
If we don't pay they said they'd give away our company secrets to our competitors. We don't have the cash." Duncan felt for the man.
There was noth- ing the FBI could have done to help.
No demands, no recontacts, and no leads, just a lot of suspicion.
But, now, the Bureau was in a position to help. "Mr. Dobbs, rest assured, we will pursue this case aggressively. We will assign you two of our top agents, and, in cases like this, we are quite successful.
Duncan's upbeat tone was meant to lift Dobbs' spirits.
Was there anything else demanded?" "No, nothing, they just told me not to go to the police." "You haven't told anyone, have you?
Duncan asked. "No, not even my wife." "Mr. Dobbs, let me ask you a couple more things, then I will introduce you to some fine men who will help you.
Do you know anyone else who is in your position?
Other people who are being blackmailed in similar ways?" Dobbs shuffled his feet under the chair, and picked at the edge of the chair.
Duncan hit a raw nerve. "Mr. Dobbs, I don't want names, no specifics.
Do you know others?" "Yes," Dobbs said almost silently. "Do you know how many?
Duncan needed details if his current line of thinking would pan out into a viable theory. "No, not exactly." "Is it five?
Dobbs nodded suddenly. "Do you mean that you know of 25 other companies that are going through what you're going through?
Tyrone was incredulous at the prospects.
The manpower alone to investigate that many cases would totally overwhelm his staff.
Twenty five, all at once. "Yeah.
At least." "I know you can't tell me who they are . . .
Duncan hoped that Dobbs might offer a few. "No. But, look at their stocks.
Our competitors seem to be getting the best of the deal." Twenty five cases in New York alone, and he knows of at least 6 others, so far.
The rekindled blackmail operation, after months of dead ends.
Duncan wondered how big the monster behind the head could get.
And how could the FBI handle it all.
Poor us. * * * * * Tuesday, December 15 New York It was before 8:00 A.M. and Scott cursed himself for arriving at his office at this ungodly hour.
He had found the last piece of the puzzle, didn't sleep very much, and was in high gear before 6:00.
Scott couldn't remember the last time he had been awake this early, unless it was coming round the long way.
He scurried past security, shaking his ID card as he flew through the closing doors on the express elevator.
The office hadn't yet come to life so Doug McGuire was available without a wait or interruption. "I need some expense money," Scott blurted out at Doug. "Yeah, so?
Doug sounded exasperated with Scott's constant requests for money.
He didn't even look up from his impossibly disorganized desk. "I'm serious . . .," Scott came back. "So am I.
Doug firmly laid down his pen on his desk and looked at Scott.
What the hell kind of expenses do you need now?" Scott spent more money than several reporters combined, and he never felt bad about it.
As a result of his research and detective work, and the ability to verify and under- stand the physics involved, Scott's articles forced a re-examina- tion of the dangers.
He received a New York Writer's Award for that series. When Doug had hired Scott, as a thirty-something cub reporter, they both thought that Scott would fit in, nice and neat, and write cute, introspective technical pieces.
New products, whiz bang elec- tronic toys for the kitchen, whiz bangs for the bathroom.
New computer this, new software that. Now, though, he was on the track, due in part he admitted, to Doug coercing him into writing the computer virus bits.
Yes, he was wrong and Doug was right.
The pieces were falling in place. So, no matter what happened, it was Doug's fault. "I'm going to Europe." "No you're not!" thundered Doug. "Yes I am. I gotta go . . .
Scott tried to plead his case. "You aren't going anywhere, and that's final.
Doug retorted without a pause.
He stared challengingly through Scott. "Doug," Scott visibly calmed himself, "will you at least hear me out, before telling me no?
At least listen to me, and if I'm wrong, tell me why.
Same routine, different day, thought Scott.
Doug's overtly stern yet fatherlike geniality returned. "O.K.
Scott mentally organized his thoughts.
He touched his fingers to his forehead and turned to sit on the edge of Doug's desk.
A traditional no-no. "Without my notes . . ." "Screw the notes, what have you got?
If you don't know the mate- rial, the notes won't help.
They're the details, not the story." Scott had heard this before. "Sure, sorry.
He gained confidence and went straight from the hip.
The FBI is investigating a massive blackmail campaign that nobody wants us to talk about, and probably for good reason from what I can see.
As of now, there is no clue at all to whom is behind the operation. "Fact two.
My story got pulled by CIA, NSA or someone that pushed the AG's buttons.
And this Tempest thing gets heads turning too fast for my taste.
Scott made sense so far, both things were true. "Three," Scott continued, "First State has been the target of hackers, plus, we have Sidneys . . ." "Sort of.
McMillan hasn't caved in on that yet." "Agreed, but it's still good.
You and I both know it.
Doug grudgingly nodded in agreement. "Then we have all those papers that came from a van, or more than one van I would guess, and not a damned thing we can do with them according to Higgins.
Again, Doug nodded, but he wondered where all of this was going.
Then the EMP-T bombs, NASA, the Phone Company, and all of these viruses.
What we have is a number of apparently dissimilar events that have one common denominator: computers." Scott waited for a reaction from Doug that didn't come so he continued.
Don't you see, the van with the computer data, the endless files, the Sidneys problems, pulling my stories, the hackers?
They're starting to get a little out of hand.
It's all the same thing!" Doug rolled his head from side to side on his shoulder.
Rather than boredom, Scott knew that Doug was carefully thinking through the logic of it.
Aren't you acting the engineer instead of the reporter here?
Miss the old line of work 'eh?" "Give me a break!
You and your viruses are the ones who got me into this mess in the first place.
Scott knew it would come up, so he had been ready and grabbed the opportunity Doug had just given him.
Scott leaped off the desk to his feet.
All we have are technical threads, pieces of a puzzle.
It's a classic engineering problem.
Although Scott had never been a brilliant engineer, he could argue the issues fluently. "Let me give you an example.
When I was in defense electronics, whenever someone built something we had to document, without failure, it didn't work.
Radar, navigation, communications, it didn't matter.
The engineers forever were releasing products that failed on the first pass.
Doug stopped rolling his head and looked at Scott with a blank stare. "We had these terrifically advanced products meant to defend our country and they didn't work.
So, we had to tell the engineers what was wrong so they could figure it out.
Our own engineers and I got involved more times than we liked because the response time from the contractors was for shit.
They didn't care any more.
The point is, we only had shreds of evidence, little bits of technical information from which to try to understand the complete system.
That's exactly what's going on here." "So?
Doug said dead panned. "So," Scott avoided getting incensed.
You're damn lucky you have me around.
I see a pattern, a trail, that leads I don't know where, but I have to follow the trail.
That's my job." "What has Europe got to do with it?
Doug was softening. "Oops, thanks!
Scott felt stupid for a second, but he was without notes, he rationalized.
Kirk is my hacker contact who I've been talking to over my computer.
Gives me real good stuff.
He says there's a conference of hackers in Amsterdam next week.
It's a real private affair, and he got me an invite. I think, no I know, there's something bigger going down; somehow all of these pieces tie together and I need to find out how." "That's it?
Scott looked disappointed at Doug's reaction. "No, that's not it!
How much?" "How much what?
Scott wasn't ready for the question. "For Europe?
How much play money will you need.
You know I have to sell this upstairs and they . . ." "Airfare and a couple of nights plus food.
If you want," Scott readied the trump card he had never used at the Times.
I'll pay for it myself, and submit it all when I come back.
Then, you make the call.
I'll trust you." "You really think it's that important?
Something's going on that smells rotten, bad, and it includes the Government, but I have no idea how.
Scott spoke as if he was on a soapbox.
He had shot his wad.
Anything more was a rehash of the same stuff and it would have been worthless to say more.
He shut up and waited for Doug who enjoyed making his better reporters anxious with anticipation. "Have a good trip," Doug said nonchalantly.
He leaned forward to hunch over his desk, and ignoring Scott, he went back to redlining another writer's story. * * * * * Tuesday, December 15 Scarsdale, New York Kirk delivered on his word.
In his E-Mail repository at the Times, Scott found a message from Kirk.
It was short, but all Scott needed to hear.
Never mind how Kirk broke into the comput- ers. Tues. 12/15 00:02:14.1 << FREEDOM BBS >> Repo Man, When you arrive, call 602-356.
Jon Gruptmann is your contact.
I told him you were a reporter, but a good one.
I said you're working to preserve freedom of electronic information and you were sick and tired of the police and media beating up on hackers.
He thinks you want to give the other side of the story to the public. Jon is one of the best in Holland and anywhere. He agreed to meet and talk with you himself.
He will show you around.
Call me, oops, no can do. Oh, Yes.
That meant to Scott that someone was interested enough in Kirk's activities, or alleged activities at First State to break in and ruin his computers.
And Da Vinci's. Who was so scared of hackers, or of what they knew to go to these lengths?
How many have had their computers ravaged? As anticipated, midnight brought Kirk calling. WE'RE GOING AFTER THEM After who? FREEDOM.
NEMO AND SOME PHREAKS PHRIENDS ARE GOING TO FIND OUT WHAT'S GOING ON. What's wrong? DID YOU EVER TALK TO ANYONE AND FEEL THAT THINGS WEREN'T QUITE RIGHT? Sure. WELL SO DO I.
Over a computer? YOU CAN TELL.
HE SPOKE WITH AN ACCENT. You're putting me on. REALLY.
EVER READ A VCR MANUAL TRANSLATED FROM THE JAPANESE? THEY LEAVE OUT THE the's FROM EVERYTHING.
AND THE WORD DUDE ESPECIALLY UPSET HIM. Dude?
Good reason to be suspicious. THEN I HACKED HIS SYSTEM WHEN I KNEW HE WASN'T ON LINE.
JUST TO LOOK AROUND MIND YOU. How can you do that? BBS'S ONLY COME IN SO MANY FLAVORS.
THEY'RE PRETTY EASY TO CRACK, ESPECIALLY IF YOU HAVE A COPY TO WORK ON. Ah hah! I FOUND HUGE AREAS OF HIS COMPUTER NOT ASSIGNED TO THE BBS. So? A BBS COMPUTER IS DEDICATED TO ONE FUNCTION, BBS'ING.
BUT WE WILL. Don't get yourself into hot water again . . . NOT TO WORRY.
SHOULDN'T TAKE LONG. * * * * * Friday, December 18 New York U.S.
Perfect for modern warfare. The Army issued an RFP, (Request For Proposal) asking the private sector to study and design computer viruses and other methods to be used offensively against enemy computers.
How long has the Government known that computer viruses and other maladies could be used in a strategic militari- ly offensive fashion?
RFP's are always preceded by much internal research and consultation with private industry.
The Government typically will have issued RFI's, (Requests For Information) and RFQ's (Request For Quotes) and already have a darn good idea of what's available and from whom. Question II.
Has the Government already sponsored such research? The existence of the EMP-T Bomb has created quite a furor. Question III.
What if the Army created experimental computer viruses and they get loose?
Who is responsible for silicon based biological warfare on desktop computers? Question IV.
Have any computer viral outbreaks actually been Government projects gone out of control? Question V.
Successful deployment, to use Pentagon-ese, is the hard part.
If we can get at their computers," an engineer with OCTAG/0N said requesting anonymity, "we can stop them in- stantly.
Getting them there has been the problem.
But now we know how to get at their computers from great distances." In the battlefield, for example, advanced tactical communications groups explode small Magnetic Bombs (EMP-T) which emit very strong electromagnetic pulses at certain frequencies.
The EM pulses destroy nearby computers, (RAM, ROM, EPROM, Magnetic storage).
Some computer systems are 'hardened' with extra shielding as in the Tempest program.
Synchronized Interference Techniques provide double duty to both listen in on and jam air borne computer traffic.
One of OCTAG/0N's pet tricks is to broadcast a computer virus from a small antenna so that it is caught by a computers communicating on the same frequency.
Why hasn't our Government been helping us protect ourselves against an apparently formidable computer weapons complement?
I hope "The Other Guys" aren't so well armed. This is Scott Mason, adding a chastity belt to my modem. **************************************************************** Chapter 17 Monday, December 28 A/K/A Software by Scott Mason The Christmas Virus is upon is.
I strongly objected, stating that I found nothing amusing about them.
Or in spring time we contracted the April Fool's Virus. It is entirely within the realm of reason that America's comput- ers go unprotected because of the sheer absurdity of the names we attach to each one.
Comical names create a comical situation, so no one takes the issue seriously. The Marijuana virus conjures up images of a stoned orgy, and why would a computer care about that.
The Fu Manchu virus conjures up the Red Chinese Army crossing the Mississippi, which is clear- ly not the case, so it is ignored. Viruses know no national boundary.
Some were chosen by the programmers, others by the Virus Busters and others yet by the media.
Usually. "I've been asking for weeks about this computer craziness.
All I get is don't worry, Mr. President," he said mimicking the classic excuses he was sick and tired of hearing.
We have it taken care of, Mr. President.
No concern of yours, Mr. President, we have everything under control.
We temporarily have our thumbs up our asses, Mr. President.
Phil stifled a giggle behind his napkin. "I'm sorry, Phil," the President continued, "but it irritates the shit out of me.
The damn media knowing more about what's hap- pening than we do.
He took notes, and with luck it would blow over in a couple of days.
Today was not Phil's lucky day. "I want a briefing.
Two Hours." "Gentlemen," the President said from behind his desk in the oval office, "I'd like to read you something I had Brian put togeth- er.
The efficiency of the White House Press Office under the leadership of Brian Packard was well known.
The President had the best rapport with the press that any President had in a generation. He slipped on his aviator style glasses and pulled the lobe of his left ear while reading from his desk.
He looked for a reaction from his four key associates: Phil, Quinton Chambers, Martin Royce and Henry Kennedy.
If you don't know, these are headlines from newspapers and magazines across the country." The President read further from his notes.
Viruses Infect Trans-Insurance Payments; Secret Service Computers Invaded; NSA and NIST in Security Rift; FBI Wasting Millions on Computer Blackmail Scheme; First National Bank Held Hostage; Sperm Bank Computer Records Erased; IRS Returns of the Super Rich.
The President removed his glasses wanting answers. "What is going on here, gentlemen?" the President asked directly. "I am baffled that everyone else but me seems to know there's a problem, and that pisses me off.
Answers?" He wondered who would be the first to speak up.
Surprisingly, it was Henry, who normally waited to speak last.
Sir, we have active programs in place to protect classified computer systems." "Then what are these about?
He waved a couple of sheets of paper in the air. "Of course we haven't fully implemented security everywhere yet, but it is an ongoing concern.
And what would you think if there were a hundred plumes of smoke rising?" Henry felt stumped.
Jacobs assured me that he had everything under control and . . ." "As I recall Henry," the President interrupted, "you told me that a couple of months ago when the papers found out about the EMP-T bombs.
He pointed the question at not only Henry. "There was no significant loss of information," Coletree rapidly said.
We sewed up the holes before we were severely compro- mised." "Wonderful," the President said sarcastically.
And what ever happened to that bank in Atlanta?
Hiring Those kids?" "If I may, sir?
Phil Musgrave filled the silence.
That was a private concern, and we had no place to interfere - as is true in most of these cases.
We can only react if government property is affected." "What is being done about it?
Now I mean." "We have activated CERT and ECCO, independent computer crime units to study the problem further.
As usual, Phil was impecca- bly informed.
Last years the Secret Service and FBI arrested over 70 people accused of computer crimes.
The state of Pennsyl- vania over 500, California 300.
Remember, sir, computer crimes are generally the states' problems." "I'm wondering if it shouldn't be our problem, too," the Presi- dent pondered. "There are steps in that direction, as well.
I guess it could be worse.
We could have ended up with Homer Simpson.
The easing of tension worked to the President's advantage, for a brief moment.
I want the whole picture, the good and the bad, laid out for me.
He scanned his private appointment book.
Tyrone's voice was quiet, just about a whisper. "Oh, hi.
Scott was unsuccessfully trying not to sound angry. Other than following Scott's articles in the paper, they had had no contact since that eventful phone call a month ago.
Since then, Scott had made sure that they rode on different cars during their daily commute into the city.
It was painful for both of them since they had been close friends, but Scott was morally obligated, so he thought, to cut off their association after Tyrone broke the cardinal rule of all journalists; keep your sources protected.
And, Tyrone had broken that maxim.
Scott had not yet learned that the Bureau made their own rules, and that the gentleman's agreement of off-the-record didn't carry weight in their venue. "How have you been?
Good bit of work you been doing." "Yeah, thanks, thanks," Scott said stiffly. Tyrone had already determined that he needed Scott if his own agency wouldn't help him.
At least Scott wasn't bound by idiotic governmental regulations that stifled rather than helped the cause.
Maybe there was hope for cooperation yet, if his little faux pas could be forgiven. "We need to talk.
I've been meaning to call you.
Though Tyrone meant it, Scott thought it was a pile of warmed up FBI shit. "Sure, let's talk.
Scott's apparent indifference bothered Tyrone. "Scott, I mean it," he said sincerely.
I have an apology to make, and I want to do it in person.
Also, I think that we both need each other . . .you'll understand when I tell you what's been going on.
Tyrone's deep baritone voice conveyed honesty and a little bit of urgency.
If nothing else, he had never known or had any reason to suspect Tyrone of purposely misleading or lying to him.
And their friendship had been a good one.
Plus, the tease of a secret further enticed Scott into agreeing. "Yeah, what the hell.
Scott's aloofness came across as phony, but Tyrone understood the awkwardness and let it pass. "How 'bout we meet at The Oyster Bar, Grand Central, and get shit faced.
Merry Christmas from the Bureau." The Oyster Bar resides on the second lower level of Grand Cen- tral Station, located eighty feet beneath Park Avenue and 42nd. Street.
It had become a fairly chic restaurant bar in the '80's; the seafood was fresh, and occasionally excellent.
The patronage of the bar ranged from the commuter who desperately quaffed down two or three martinis to those who enjoyed the seafaring ambi- ence.
The weathered hardwood walls were decorated with huge stuffed crabs, swordfish, lifesavers and a pot pourri of fishing accouterments.
He ambled over, and Tyrone stood to greet him.
Scott was cool, but willing to give it a try.
As usual Tyrone was elegant- ly attired, in a custom tailored dark gray pin stripe suit, a fitted designer shirt and a stylish silk tie of the proper width. Scott was dressed just fine as far as he was concerned.
His sneakers were clean, his jeans didn't have holes and the sweater would have gained him admission to the most private ski parties in Vermont.
Maybe they were too different and their friendship had been an unexplainable social aberration; an accident. Scott's stomach tightened.
His body memory recalled the time the principal had suspended him from high school for spreading liquid banana peel on the hall floors and then ringing the fire drill alarm.
The picture of 3000 kids and 200 teachers slipping and sliding and crawling out of the school still made Scott smile. "What'll you have?
Tyrone gestured at a waiter while asking Scott for his preference. "Corona, please." Tyrone took charge.
Waiter, another double and a Corona.
He waved the waiter away.
Tyrone was already slightly inebriated.
I guess you think I'm a real shit hole, huh?" "Sort of," Scott agreed.
I guess you could put it that way." Scott was impressed with Ty's forthright manner.
I can think of a bunch more words that fit the bill.
At least Tyrone admitted it.
That was a step in the right direction. Ty laughed.
Yeah, I bet you could, and you might be right." Scott's drink came.
He took a thirsty gulp from the long neck bottle." "Ease on down the road!
Ty held his half empty drink in the air.
Scott slowly lifted his and their drinks met briefly.
They both sipped again, and an awkward silence followed. "Well, I guess it's up to me to explain, isn't it?
Tyrone ven- tured. "You don't have to explain anything.
I understand," Scott said caustically. "I don't think you do, my friend.
May I at least have my last words before you shoot?
Tyrone's joviality was not as effective when nervous. Scott remembered that he used the same argument with Doug only days before.
Sure, ready and aimed, though." "I'm quitting.
Tyrone's face showed disappointment, resigna- tion. The beer bottle at Scott's lips was abruptly laid on the table. "Quitting?
What happened?" For one moment Scott completely forgot how angry he was. The din of the Oyster Bar made for excellent cover.
They could speak freely with minimal worry of being overheard. "It's a long story, but it began when they pulled your article. God, I'm sorry, man," Tyrone said with empathy.
The furrows on his forehead deepened as he searched for a reaction from Scott. Nothing. Ty finished off his drink and started on the refill.
Unlike what you probably believe, or want to believe, when you called me that morning, I had no idea what you were talking about.
It was several hours before I realized what had happened.
If I had any idea . . ." Scott stared blankly at Tyrone.
Tyrone shrugged with his hands in the air for added emphasis.
Tempest meant nothing to me.
All I said was that you and I had been talking.
I promise you, that's it.
As a friend, that was the extent of it.
They took it from there.
Tyrone extended his hands in an open gesture of conciliation.
All I knew was that what you'd said about CMR shook some people up in D.C..
ECCO has been quite educational.
Now I know why, and that's why I have to leave." The genuineness from Tyrone softened Scott's attitude some.
I thought you spooks stuck together.
Spy and die together." Tyrone contorted his face to show disgust with that thought. "That'll be the day.
In fact it's the opposite.
A third of our budgets are meant to keep other agencies in the dark about what we're doing." "You're kidding!" "I wish I was.
Tyrone looked disheartened, betrayed. "At any rate," Tyrone continued, "I got spooked by the stunt with your paper and the Attorney General.
I just couldn't call you, you'll see why.
The Agency is supposed to enforce the law, not make it and they have absolutely no business screwing with the press.
Tyrone took a healthy sip of his drink.
Reminds me of times that are supposed to be gone.
Did you know that I am a constitutional lawyer?" Scott ordered another beer and shook his head, no. Just a regular lawyer.
Will wonders never cease? "Back in the early 60's the South was not a good place for blacks.
Or Negroes as we were called back then.
Tyrone said the word Negro with disdain.
He pulled his tie from the stiff collar and opened a button.
I went on some marches in Alabama, God, that was a hot summer.
A couple of civil rights workers were killed." Scott remembered.
More from the movie Mississippi Burning than from memory. Civil rights wasn't a black-white issue, Tyrone insisted.
It was about man's peaceful co-existence with government.
I thought that was an important distinction and most people were missing the point.
I thought I could make a differ- ence working from inside the system.
Tyrone spoke from his heart, his soul, with a touch of resentment that Scott had not seen before.
But then, they had never spoken of it before.
This was one story that he had suc- cessfully neglected to share.
Forced integration was govern- ment's answer to a problem it has never understood. "It's about dignity.
Dignity and respect, not government inter- vention.
It's about a man's right to privacy and the right to lead his life the way he sees fit.
Civil rights is about how to keep government from interfering with its citizens.
Tyrone was adamant. "And that's why you're gonna quit?
Scott didn't see the con- nection. "No, goddamnit, no," Tyrone shouted.
They want to take them away.
He spoke with finality and assumed Scott knew what he meant.
The liquor fogged his brain to mouth speech connection. "Who's gonna take what away?
Scott asked, frustrated by Ty's ramblings. "I know it's hokey, but the Founding Fathers had a plan, and so far it's survived two hundred years of scrutiny and division.
I would like to think it can survive the computer age.
Even today he'll pick a fight at the family barbecue for his own entertainment.
And he'll hold his own." Scott enjoyed the image of a crotchety octogenarian stirring up the shit while his children isolated their kids from their grand father's intellectual lunacy.
What was this about? Tyrone caught himself and realized that he wasn't getting his point across.
He took a deep breath and slouched back in the chair that barely held him. "From the beginning," he said.
I told you about ECCO, and what a disaster it is.
No authority, no control, no responsibility. And the chaos is unbelievable. "I don't pretend to understand all of the computer jargon, but I do recognize when the NSA wants to control everything.
There's a phenomenal amount of arrogance there.
The NSA reps in ECCO believe that they are the only ones who know anything about computers and how to protect them.
I feel sorry for the guys from NIST.
They're totally underfunded, so they end up with both the grunt work and the brunt of the jokes from the NSA. "NSA won't cooperate on anything.
If NIST says it's white, NSA says it's black.
If NIST says there's room to compromise, NSA gets more stubborn.
At long last I now know what happened to the hippies: they're all government con- sultants through universities.
And all they want to do is study, study, study.
But they never come up with answers, just more questions to study. "The vendors try to sell their products and don't contribute a damn thing," sighed Tyrone.
A bunch of industry guys from computer companies and the banks, and they're as baffled as I am." "So why quit?
Can't you make a difference?" "Listen.
The FBI views computer crimes as inter-state in nature and therefore under their domain." Scott nodded in understanding. "We are enforcement, only," Tyrone asserted.
We do not, nor should we make the laws.
Separation of power; Civics 101.
To accomplish anything, I have to be a private citizen." "What do you want to accomplish?" asked Scott with great inter- est. "I want to stop the NSA.
Tyrone spoke bluntly and Scott sat too stunned to speak for long seconds. "From what?
A sudden pit formed in Scott's stomach. "I found out why they dumped on you about the CMR," Tyrone said. "I haven't been able to tell you before, but it doesn't matter any more.
Tyrone quickly shook off the veiling sadness.
NSA has a built-in contradiction.
On one hand they listen into the world and spy for America.
This is supposed to be very secret, especially how they do it.
It turns out that CMR is one of their 'secret' methods for spying on friends and foes alike. "So, to keep our friends and foes from spying on us, they create the secret Tempest program.
Except, they think it needs to be kept a military secret, and the public sector be damned.
They actually believe that opening the issue to the public will hamper their intelligence gathering capabilities because the enemy will protect against it, too." Scott listened in fascination.
What he was learning now more than made up for the loss of one article.
He felt bad now that he had overreacted and taken it out on Tyrone. "Same goes for the EMP-T bomb," Tyrone added.
Only they didn't know that you were going to publish ahead of time like they did when I opened up my fat trap." Scott's eyes suddenly lit up.
How much did you tell them?" "That I knew you and you were writing an article.
That's it." "Then how did they know what I had written?
It was pretty damned close.
I assumed that you had . . ." "No way, man," Tyrone held his hands up. "Then how did . . .Ty?
I assume they're capable of anything." "Shit!
Privacy goes right out the window. Damn.
Scott rapidly spun in his chair and vacantly stared off in space.
I looked into that briefly, and there's nothing on the books yet, but I did find out that tapping cellular phone conversations is legal." "Phone tapping, legal?
Scott couldn't believe his ears. "Cellular phones, yeah.
The FCC treats them like TV sets, radi- os, satellites.
Anyone can listen to any station." "That's incredible," Scott said, mouth gaping.
I wonder how they'll handle RF LAN's." "RF LAN's," asked Ty.
What are those?" "A bunch of computers tied together with radios.
They replace the wires that connect computers now.
Scott saw the irony in it.
Broadcasting your private secrets like that?
Or if you have your own RF network, all you have to do is dial up another one and all the information ends up right in your computer!
Is this a great country or what?" "Now you know why I'm leaving.
The NSA cannot be permitted to keep the public uninformed about vulnerabilities to their person- al freedom.
And hiding under the umbrella of national security gets old.
A handful of paranoid un-elected, un-budgeted, non-ac- countable, mid-level bureaucrats are deciding the future of privacy and freedom in this country.
They are the ones who are saying, 'no, no problem,' when they know damn well it is a prob- lem.
What they say privately is in diametric opposition to their public statements and positions." Scott stifled a nervous laugh.
Don't you think that maybe you're taking this a little far," he suggested.
For the first time in years the shoe was on the other foot.
Scott was tempering some- body elses extremes. "Why the hell do you think there's so much confusion at ECCO and CERT and the other computer SWAT teams?
NSA interferes at every step," Tyrone responded.
And no, I am not taking this too far. I haven't taken it far enough.
I sit with these guys and they talk as though I'm not there.
I attend meetings where the poli- cies and goals of ECCO are established.
Shit, I trust the dope- smoking hippies from Berkeley more than anyone from the Fort." The bitterness came through clearly, but Scott could see it wasn't focussed on any one person or thing. But Scott began to understand.
For over 20 years Tyrone had insulated himself from the politics of the job and had seen only what he wanted to see; a national Police Force enforcing the laws.
Tyrone loved the chase of the crime.
The bits and pieces, the endless sifting of evidence, searching for clues and then building a case from shreds.
Tyrone introspectively examined his beliefs; he tried to review them from the perspective of an idealistic young man in his twenties.
What would he have done then?
Same thing with my ex- wife." "Hey, that's not fair, man," Tyrone vigorously objected.
Maggie was a dingbat . . ." "I know that and she knew that," Scott agreed, "but that was what made her Maggie.
Tyrone nodded, remembering her antics.
And in some ways we still love each other.
After ten years of fun, great fun, she wanted to get off of the planet more than I did, so she went to California.
The softness in Scott's voice said he still cared about Maggie, that she was a cherished part of his life, that was and would remain in the past. Scott shook off the melancholy and continued.
It's the same for you.
You're married to the FBI, and while you still love it, you need to let it go to move on with your life." "Y'know, I don't know why everyone says you're so stupid," Tyrone said with respect.
UFO's aside, you can actually make sense." "Maybe, maybe not.
But I'm doing exactly what I want to do.
And the day it stops being fun, I'm outta here." "Isn't that the arrogance of wealth speaking?
Tyrone asked. "And you're any different?
The 22 room Tudor shack you live in is not exactly my vision of poverty.
As I see it, it's one of the benefits," Scott said unembarrassed by his financial securi- ty.
Before I made my money, I swore that when I got rich, I would give something back.
You know, to the planet or society or something.
Do something useful and not for the money.
Scott spoke with honest enthusiasm.
But I don't believe there's a rule that says I have to be miserable.
I love what I do, and well, I don't know.
The concept of career is different for me. I like the idea of doing a little bit of everything for the experience.
You know, I drove a cab for one night.
Glad I did, but never again." "So?" asked Tyrone. "So, do what you want to do and enjoy it.
As a friend of a friend says, live long and prosper." Scott let Tyrone sit in contemplative silence as the waiter brought them two more.
They were doing a good job of sticking to the plan of getting 'shiffaced'. "You know," Tyrone opined, "INTERNET is only the tip of the iceberg.
NASA is having ECCO and CERT look into over $12 Million in unaccounted-for telephone calls.
The Justice Department sold old computers containing the names and other details of the Witness Protection Program to a junk dealer in Kentucky and they're suing him to get them back.
The Secret Service is rede- signing its protection techniques for the President since someone got into their computers and copied the plans.
The computers at Mitre have been used by hackers for years to get at classified information.
The public hears less than 1% of the computer problems in the government.
And still, no one will do anything. There's even talk that the missing Plutonium that the Israelis theoretically stole in 1981 was actually a computer error." "What do you want to do about it?
Scott was asking as a friend, not a reporter. "First," said a newly determined Tyrone, "I'm gonna nail me some of these mothers, and I'll do it with your help.
Tyrone's old smile was suddenly back.
I think I'm gonna kick myself some government ass.
Tyrone roared with laughter and Scott joined the contagious behavior.
In the meantime, I want to take a look at some blackmail.
I think you may be right." "About what?
I don't listen to what I tell you." "Remember you said that the blackmail scheme wasn't really blackmail.
Tyrone shifted his weight in the chair and he reached for the words through is fogged mind.
You said it might be a way to make us too busy to see our own shadow.
That it was a cover up for another dissociated crime." "Yeah?
It might be," Scott said. Tyrone's body heaved while he snickered.
We finally have a lead. Demands have been made." "What kind?
Scott's journalist mind clicked into gear.
What about the computer virus crap?" "I'm kind of looking into both, but this morning my interest was renewed.
A corporate type I met says not only he, but another 25 or more of his corporate brethren are getting the same treatment. If he's right, someone is demanding over $30 Million in ransoms." "Jesus Christ!
The questions raced through his mind all at once. Over a few dozen oysters and not as many drinks, Scott and Ty proceeded to share their findings.
Scott had documents up the ying-yang, documents he couldn't use in a journalistic sense, but might be valuable to the recent developments in Ty's case.
He had moved the files to his home; they were simply taking too much space around his desk at the office.
They were an added attrac- tion to the disaster he called his study.
Scott agreed to show Ty some of them.
Some were borrow- ing money from the mob to pay them off." "Do you have names?
Tyrone's took an immediate interest. "Let me see if I have'm here," he said as he reached for his small notebook in the sports jacket draped over the back of his chair.
Yeah, he only gave me three, not much to go on.
A Faulkner, some banker from L.A., a Wall Street tycoon named Henson and another guy Dobbs, Franklin Dobbs." "Dobbs!
How the hell do you know about Dobbs?
Tyrone yelled so loud several remaining bar patrons looked over to see what the ruckus was. Scott was taken aback by the outburst.
What're you hollering about?" "Shit, goddamned shit, I don't need this.
Tyrone finished one and ordered another drink.
He was keeping his promise; well on the way to getting severely intoxicated.
Dobbs is the poor fucker that came into my office." "You saw Dobbs?
Scott's heart raced at the prospect of a connection.
Finally. "Scott," Tyrone asked quietly, "I have no right to ask you this, but I will anyway.
If you find anything, on Dobbs, can you hold back?
A slight pleading on Tyrone's part. "Why?
Was this part of the unofficial trade with Ty for earlier information? The waiter returned with the credit card.
Tyrone signed the slip, giving the waiter entirely too much of a tip.
I'll tell you on the train.
Let's go." "Where?" "To your house.
You have a computer, don't you?" "Yeah . . ." "Well, let's see if we can find out who the other 25 are." They took a cab from the Scarsdale station to Scott's house.
No point in ending up in the clink for a DUI, even with a Federal Agent in tow.
During the hour ride, they reviewed what they knew. Several prominent businessmen were being actively blackmailed. In addition, the blackmailer, or a confederate, was feeding information to the media.
Perhaps other media as well were in receipt of simi- lar information, but legitimate news organizations couldn't have much to do with it in its current form. Presumably then, like Scott, other reporters were calling names in the files.
Tyrone reasoned that such an exercise might be a well planned maneuver on the part of the perpetrators. "Think about it this way," he said.
Let's say you get a call from someone who says they know something about you that you don't want them to.
That'll shake you up pretty good, won't it?" Scott rapidly agreed.
And the nature of the contact is threatening, not directly, perhaps, but the undercurrent leaves no doubt that the caller is not your best friend.
Follow?" "And then," Scott picked up, "a guy like me calls with the same information.
The last person in the world he wants to know about his activities is a reporter, or to see it show up in the news, so he really freaks." "Exactly!
And, if he gets more than one call, cardiac arrest is nearby.
Makes for a good case of justifiable paranoia." Tyrone nodded vigorously.
I've been in this game long enough to see the side effects of blackmail and extortion.
The psycholog- ical effects can be devastating.
An inherent distrust of strang- ers is common.
Exaggerated delusions occur in many cases.
If we're right, you begin to distrust every- one, your closest friends, business associate, even your family. Suddenly, everyone is a suspect.
Distrust runs rampant and you begin to feel a sense of isolation, aloneness.
It feels like you're fighting the entire world alone.
Solitude can be the worst punishment." The analysis was sound.
The far ranging implications had never occurred to Scott.
To him it had been a simple case of extortion or blackmail using some high tech wizardry.
Now, suddenly there was a human element.
The personal pain that made the crime even that much more sinister. "Well, we, I mean the FBI, have seven stake outs.
It's a fairly simple operation.
Money drops in public places, wait and pick up the guy who picks up the money.
Tyrone made it sound so easy. Scott wondered. "I bet it isn't that simple," Scott challenged. "No shit, it ain't," Tyrone came back. "So whaddya do?" "Pay and have another beer.
Tyrone tempered the seriousness of their conversation. As Scott got up to go the kitchen he called out, "Hey, I been thinking." "Yeah?
Tyrone yelled. He popped a Bud and handed it to Tyrone.
Listen, I know this may be left field, but let's think it through.
Scott sat behind his desk and put his feet on top of some books on the desk.
He leaned back and put his hands behind his head.
We've been talking about the front end of this thing, the front lines where the victims are actually being blackmailed.
The kind of stuff that makes headlines.
Scott smiled devilishly at Ty who made a significant hand gesture in return.
And now you're talking about how to catch them when they pick up the money.
Have you thought of the other side?" "What other side?
Tyrone was still confused by Scott's logic. "Assume for a moment that all this information is really coming from computers.
Ty grudgingly shrugged his shoul- ders.
Ok, you said that there are 7 cases across the country. Dobbs said he knew of more here.
Well, who gets the information?" Confusion showed on Tyrone's face.
Gets the information?" "Yeah, who runs around the country listening in on computers?" The question had been obvious to Scott.
All of sudden Tyrone's face lit up. "You mean the van?" "Right.
One blew up, or more specifically, was blown up.
You guys have the pieces." "Not any more," Ty said.
They were taken away by CI .
Said it was national security .
I was told to stay away from it.
Told you about us Feds." "Whatever," Scott waved away the sidebar.
The point is that if a whole bunch of these vans were used, that's not cheap.
They held a lot of very expensive equipment.
Why not look for the vans?
They can't be that hard to find.
Maybe you'll find your . . . " "Holy Christ, Mother Mary and Joseph, why didn't I think of that.
Tyrone stood up and aimlessly meandered amongst Scott's junk heaps.
We've been looking in one direction only.
The van ceased to exist in our minds since CI took it.
The Government can be a royal pain in the ass.
The van, of course." Just as Scott was going to describe how to find villains without wasting hundreds of hours scouring data banks, his computer beeped three times.
Scott was shaken from his comfort.
What the . . .?
He looked at the clock.
It was just midnight. Kirk!
Kirk was calling and he totally had forgotten to mention the computer ransacking to Ty. "Great!
I wanted you to meet him.
As Scott leaned over the keyboard to answer the page, Tyrone looked quizzically at him. "Who's Kirk?" "This hacker, some kid on the West Coast.
He's taught me a lot. Good guy.
Hope to meet him someday.
Scott pushed a few keys. The screen came alive. WTFO "Hey," said Tyrone, "that's what we used to say in the Reserves." Gotta Spook here. SPOOK?
YOU KNOW SPOOK? Who's Spook? YOU SAID HE'S WITH YOU Not Spook, a spook.
Who is Spook, anyway? SPOOK IS A HACKER, ONE OF THE BEST.
THE FBI? He's a friend.
He doesn't know. Tyrone had come over to the crowded desk to watch the exchange. "Who is this guy?
What don't I know?" Kirk, can I tell him?
No one knows who you are? I GUESS SO. Be back . . . Scott proceeded to tell Tyrone about the warnings that Kirk received and then how his computers were destroyed.
That the calling card warned Kirk to stay away from First State Bank.
And how another hacker calling himself Da Vinci on a BBS called Freedom might be a link.
Then Scott admitted that he had been in on a bank robbery, or at least breaking and entering a bank's computer. Tyrone had enough.
I'm not sure I want to hear anymore.
So what can I do?" "Tell Kirk what he can do," Scott said. "He could probably go to jail.
Is that where you get your stories?
You live them and then report them in the third person?
Stories for the inquiring mind." "Are you through!
I mean, are you through?
Scott sounded per- turbed. "It's true.
What does this guy want?" "Advice.
Scott motioned for Tyrone to sit at the keyboard. "What do I do?" "Just type," Scott said with exasperation.
You're as bad as my mother.
Scott ordered. This is Ty Scott pulled Ty's hands from the keyboard.
A handle, use a handle, like on a CB!" "Oh, yeah, I forgot," Tyrone lied. This is the FBI Scott looked on in shock.
He already knows who I am. So what?
I've always liked saying that anyway." KIRK HERE, FBI, WHERE NO MAN HAS GONE BEFORE So I hear.
Been to any good banks lately? REPO MAN, WHAT'S UP? Can't take a joke? YEAH.
NO PROBLEM. Listen, I don't know you from Adam, and you don't have to talk to me, but I am curious.
Did your computers really get bashed? TOTALLY, DUDE. Tyrone pointed his thumb at the computer.
Wise guy, eh?" "Give him a chance.
Tyrone didn't take kindly to references to his age.
He likes calling me Repo Man for some reason that still escapes me. Where else do you go? THAT WOULD BE TELLING Gotcha.
Scott was amused. "Sorry," Tyrone said. "He'll call back," Scott waved off the apology.
When the coast is clear." "Fuck off.
Their friendship was returning to the level it once had been. "Hey, it's getting beyond late," Scott ignored him.
What say we get together in a few days and sort through some of this." "I know, but one thing.
Can you get into your computers, at the paper?" "Yeah, why?" "Dobbs said that the other victims had had their stock go down pretty dramatically.
Can you look up stock prices and perform- ances over the last few months?" "Yeah, do it all the time." "Could you?
I want to see if there are any names I recognize." "No problem.
Scott dialed the Times' computer and identified himself.
After going into the bank computer with Kirk, every time he dialed up his office, he felt an increased sense of power, and an increased sense of responsibility.
He had access to massive amounts of information that if it got into the wrong hands . . . He shook the thought.
Scott leaned back. "Takes a few seconds.
Oh, as I was saying, when I get back, I'll call and we'll see what we can screw together." "Back from where?
Tyrone sounded accusatory but jealous. "Europe.
Scott checked the computer screen.
It was still busy. "Rough life." "No, it's only for a couple of days.
There's a hackers confer- ence.
I've been invited, by Kirk as a matter of fact." "Hackers conference, sounds like tons of fun.
Tyrone was not impressed. "The best hackers in the world are going to be there.
I hope to get some leads on the First State mess.
The Freedom BBS is not all it seems." "Please stay in touch," Tyrone implored. "Sure.
Ah, let's see, there are 267 companies who meet that criterion.
I guess that narrows it down for you." "Smart ass.
Ah, can you get those in New York only?" "The city?
Sure." SORT BY ZIP 100XX "That'll give us . . ." "I know what it means.
Tyrone shut Scott up in mock defense. In reality he didn't know much about computers, but some things were obvious even to the technically naive. "That was fast," said Scott.
Can I get that on paper?" Scott gave him the printout of the finances on the several unfor- tunate companies who had lost more than a third of their net worth in the last year.
Tyrone folded it into his jacket pocket. "Hey, call me a cab.
I'm too drunk to walk." * * * * * Wednesday, December 30 Lenox, Georgia A faded blue Ford Econoline van sat in the Lenox Square parking lot.
The affluent Atlanta suburb had been targeted from the beginning.
Demographically ,it fit the bill to a tee. From the outside, the van looked like a thousand other parked cars; empty, with their owners shopping in the huge mall.
On the inside though, two men were intently operating a vast array of electronic equipment. "Here comes another one," said the first.
How many does that make today?" "A hundred and forty seven.
The second man watched the enhanced color video image on a small monitor.
Let me adjust the antenna.
His hand grabbed a joystick on one of the tightly packed racks of equipment and gingerly moved it from left to right.
A small disguised antenna on the roof of the van aligned itself as the joystick commanded. "Yeah . . .no . . .yeah, back again . . ." "I see it.
There." "Thanks." Enter Personal Identification Number: A third monitor over the second man's cramped desk came to life as the number 3435 appeared across his screen. "Got it.
You, too?" "On disk and saved." "I'll back it up." "Better not.
Here comes another one." "Busy day." * * * * * It was a very busy day.
Ahmed Shah saw to it that his followers were kept busy, six days a week.
On the road, doing his bidding twenty four hours a day, every day but the Sabbath. Ahmed created cells of eight loyal anti-American sympathizers, regardless of nationality, to operate with each van.
Each group operated as an independent entity with only one person from each able to communicate privately with Ahmed over cellular modem.
No cell knew of any other cell.
If one group was apprehended, they couldn't tell what they didn't know.
Therefore, the rest of the cells remain intact. Absolute loyalty was an unquestioned assumption for all members of Ahmed's electronic army.
It had to be that way, for the bigger cause. All day and night one of Ahmed Shah's computers in his lab at Columbia received constant calls from his cell leaders.
During the day it was the most interesting information that they had captured from computer screens.
It didn't matter than no one else believed it, or that they thought him daffy.
It worked for him. He believed that jet lag was caused by the human body traveling across mystical magnetic force fields called Ley lines.
The physics of his theory made common sense to anyone but a scien- tist.
It went like this: the body is electric and therefore magnetic fields can influence it.
Wherever we live we are sub- ject to the local influence of magnetic, electrical and Ley lines.
If we move too quickly, as by plane, through Ley lines, the balance of our system is disturbed.
The more Ley lines you traverse, the more upsetting it is to the system.
Thus, jet lag. But, Scott had a solution.
Or more accurately, his mother had one which she had convinced him of years earlier.
Scott carried with him a small box, the size of a pack of cigarettes, that had a switch and a blinking light.
It was called an Earth Resonance Generator, or ERG.
The literature said the ERG established a negative gravity field through a magnetic Mobius loop.
Inside the box was a battery, a loop of wire, a light emitting diode and the back side of the switch.
In short, nothing of electronic consequence or obvious function.
There was no way in hell that this collection of passive components could do anything other than wear out batteries.
All for $79.95 plus $4 shipping. Scott first heard his mother proselytize about the magic of the ERG when he was ten or twelve.
His father, the role model for Archie Bunker ignored her completely and said her rantings in- creased with certain lunar phases.
Since his father wouldn't listen to her any longer, she endlessly lectured Scott about the virtues of the ERG whenever she returned from a trip.
His father refused to travel, and had never even been on a plane. His mother so persisted in her belief that she even tried experi- ments.
On one of her trips to Rome, she somehow talked the stewardesses into handing out the 400 questionnaires she'd brought with her onto the plane.
It asked the passengers how they felt after the flight, and if they do anything special to avoid jet lag.
She claims more than 200 were returned and that they overwhelmingly indicated that no one felt jet lag on that trip. She attributed this immense success to the ERG effects which purportedly spread over one acre.
In other words, the ERG takes care of an entire 747 or L-1011 or DC-10. For years Scott successfully used the ERG to avoid jet lag.
Some people put brown paper bags in their shoes, others eat yogurt and bean sprouts before a long flight.
Maybe his solution was psy- chosomatic, Scott admitted to anyone who asked, but, so what?
It still works, doesn't it?
Scott was forever impressed that air- port security had never, once, asked him what this little blink- ing black box was.
Scary thought. He arrived completely refreshed via KLM at the Amsterdam Interna- tional Airport at 9:15 A.M. While he had been to Europe many times, he had thus far missed the Amsterdam experience.
He had heard that pot was legal in Amsterdam.
In fact it was more than legal.
Every morning the marijuana prices were broadcast on the local radio stations and Scott had every intention of sampling the wares.
During the half hour fifty guilder ride into downtown, the driver continuously chattered.
Amsterdam has more canals than Venice.
Holland is mostly land reclaimed from the sea.
We have the biggest system of dikes in Europe.
Don't forget to see our diamond centers.
He spoke endlessly with deep pride about his native land. The Eureka! is a small four story townhouse with only 16 rooms that overlooked the Amstel, the largest canal in Amsterdam, similar to the Grand Canal in Venice.
The Times had booked it because it was cheap, but Scott felt instantly at home.
After settling in, Scott called the local number that Kirk had given him. "Hallo?
A thick Dutch accent answered the phone. "Hello?
I'm looking for Jon Gruptmann?
This is Scott Mason." "Ya, this is Jon." "A mutual friend, Kirk, said I should call you." "Ah, ya, ya.
Repo Man, is it not?
The voice got friendly. "That's what Kirk calls me." "Ya, ya.
He said you want to attend our meetings.
Jon sounded enthusiastic. "That's why I swam the Atlantic, all three thousand miles.
Jon didn't sound like Scott expected a computer hacker to sound, whatever that was. "Huh?
Let me tell you where we meet.
The place is small, so it may be very crowded.
I hope you do not mind.
Jon sounded concerned about Scott's comfort. "Oh, no. I'm used to inconvenience.
I'm sure it will be fine." "Ya, ya.
The meetings don't really begin until tomorrow at 9AM.
Is that goot for you?" "Yes, just fine, what's the address?
Scott asked as he readied paper and pen. "Ya.
Go to the warehouse on the corner of Oude Zidjs Voorburg Wal and Lange Niezel.
It's around from the Oude Kerksplein. Number 44." "Hold it, I'm writing.
Scott scribbled the address phonetically. A necessary trick reporters use when someone is speaking unintel- ligibly.
And then what?" "Just say you're Repo Man.
And please remember, we don't use our given names." "No problem.
What do you plan for tonight?
Jon asked happily. "I hadn't really thought about it," Scott lied. "Ya, ya.
Well, I think you should see our city.
Enjoy the unique pleasures Amsterdam has to offer." "I might take a walk . . . or something." "Ya, ya, or something.
I will see you tomorrow. Ya?
Jon said laughing. "Wouldn't miss it for the world." "Do one favor?
We have many pickpockets." "Thanks for the warning.
I grew up in New York, Scott thought.
He laced his new Reeboks knowing that Amsterdam is a walking city.
Driving would be pure insanity unless the goal is sitting in two hour traffic jams.
The single lane streets straddle the miles of canals throughout the inner city which is arranged in a large semi-circular pattern.
Down- town, or old Amsterdam, is a dense collection of charming clean, almost pristine 4 story buildings built over a period of several hundred years.
That's the word for Amsterdam; charming.
From late medieval religious structures to townhouses that are tightly packed on almost every street, to the various Pleins where the young crowds congregate in the evenings, Amsterdam has something for everyone.
Anne Frank's house to the Rembrandt Museum to a glass roofed boat trip down the canals through the diamond dis- trict and out into the Zeider Zee.
Not to mention those attrac- tions for the more prurient. He ran down the two flights to the hotel lobby and found the concierge behind the Heineken bar which doubled as a registration desk.
He wanted to know where to buy some pot. "Not to find us selling that here," the Pakistani concierge said in broken English. "I know.
But where . . .
It was an odd feeling to ask which store sold drugs. "You want Coffee Shop," he helpfully said. "Coffee Shop?
Scott asked, skeptical of the translation. "Across bridge, make right, make left.
The concierge liberally used his hands to describe the route.
Very good." Scott thanked him profusely and made a quick exit thinking that in parts of the U.S., Texas came to mind, such a conversation could be construed as conspiracy.
He headed out into the cool damp late morning weather.
The air was crisp, clean, a pleasure to breathe deeply.
The Amstel canal, not a ripple present, echoed the tranquility that one feels when walking throughout the city.
There are only a half dozen or so 'main' streets or boule- vards in Amsterdam and they provide the familiar intense interna- tional commercialism found in any major European city.
He turned right as instructed and looked at the street names on the left.
While Scott spoke reasonable French, Dutch escaped him.
It was just an alley, but there a few feet down on the right was the JPL Coffee Shop.
JPL was the only retail establishment on Bakker- straat, and it was unassuming, some might call it derelict, in appearance.
From a distance greater than 10 meters, it appeared deserted. Through the large dirty plate glass window Scott saw a handful of patrons lazing on white wrought iron cafe chairs at small round tables.
How could he be of service? "Ah . . .
I heard I can buy marijuana here," Scott said. "Ya, of course.
Chris asked. "Well, just enough for a couple of days, I can't take it back with me you know," Scott laughed nervously. "Ya.
We also have cocaine, and if you need it, I can get you he- roin.
Chris gave the sales pitches verbally - there was no printed menu in this Coffee Shop. "No!
Scott shot back immediately, until he realized that all drugs were legal here, not just pot.
He didn't want to offend. "Thanks anyway.
Just some grass will do." "How many grams do you want?" Grams?
Scott mused that the metric Europeans thought in grams and Americans still in ounces and pounds.
O.K., 28 grams to an ounce . . . "Two grams," Scott said.
By the way, how late are you open?" Scott pushed his rounded spectacles back up his nose. "Ah, sometimes 8, sometimes 10, sometimes late," Chris said while bringing a tissue box sized lock box to the top of the bar.
He opened it and inside were several bags of pot and a block of aluminum foil the size of a candy bar.
Chris offered. Scott shook his head, 'no,' so Chris opened one of the bags in- stead of the candy bar. "You American?
A voice came from one of the tables.
The man got up and approached Scott.
Listen, they got two types of ganja here.
I've made the mistake." "Ya, we have two kinds," Chris agreed laughing.
This will only get you a little high," he said holding up a bag.
This one," he held up another, "will get you stoned." "Bullshit," the American said.
Their idea of a little high is catatonic for us.
Take my word for it.
The Mexican shit we smoke?
They'd give it to the dogs." "You sold me," Scott said holding his hands up in surrender. "Just a little high is fine by me.
Two grams, please," he said to Chris pointing at the less potent bag.
Thanks for the warn- ing," he said to the American.
I guess you could call Washington my home." "D.C.?" "Yeah," the American nodded.
He leaned over the back of his chair to face Scott. "Big Apple.
The 'burbs." "What brings you here?" "To Europe?
Diamonds?" "No, I wish," Scott laughed.
A story brought me here for a couple of days." Chris finished weighing Scott's purchase on a sensitive digital scale that measured the goods down to the nearest hundredth of a gram.
Scott handed Chris $10 in Guilders and pocketed the pot. "Um, where can I get some papers?
Chris pointed to a glass on the bar with a complete selection of assorted paraphernalia. "Hey, why don't you join me," the American asked.
I've been to Amsterdam before." "Is it all right to smoke in here?
Scott asked looking around. "Sure, that's what coffee shops are.
The only other thing you can buy in here is sodas.
The American spoke confi- dently as he lit up a joint and passed it to Scott. "Thanks," Scott coughed as he handed it back.
Oh, I don't think I caught your name. "Oh, just call me Spook." THE Spook? thought Scott.
What incredible synchronicity. Scott's body instantly tensed up and he felt the adrenaline rush with an associated rise in pulse rate.
Was this really the leg- endary Spook? Is it possible that he fell into a chance meeting with the hacker that Kirk and his friends refer to as the king of hackers? Spook?
Could he be that lucky?
Was there more than one spook?
Scott momentarily daydreamed, remembering how fifteen years before, in Athens, Greece he had opened a taxi door right into the face a lady who turned out to be an ex-high-school girl friend.
It is a small world, Scott thought tritely. "Spook?
Scott comically asked, careful to dis- guise his real interest. "If I answer that I'll have to kill you," the Spook laughed out loud in the quiet establishment.
They call me Repo Man, but it's really Scott Mason.
Spook," he added handing back the intoxicating cigarette. BINGO!
Scott Mason in hand without even a search.
Landing right in his lap.
Don't blow it, let's play this for all that it's worth.
Your life just got very simple.
Give both Homosoto and Mason exactly what they want with no output of energy. "You said you're a reporter," Spook said inhaling deeply again. "What's the story?
At least he gets high, Spook thought.
Mason could have been a real dip-shit nerd.
Thank God for small fa- vors. "There's a hacker conference that I was invited to," Scott said unabashedly.
I'm trying to show the hacker's side of the story. Why they do what they do.
How they legitimize it to themselves." Scott's mouth was rapidly drying out so he ordered a Pepsi.
I assume you're a hacker, too," Scott broached the issue carefully. Spook smiled widely.
And proud of it." "You don't care who knows?
Scott asked looking around to see if anyone was paying attention to their conversation.
Instead the other patrons were engrossed in chess or huddled conversation. Only Chris, the proprietor listened from behind the bar. "The Spook is all anyone knows.
I like to keep it that way," Spook said as he laid the roach end of the joint in the ashtray. "Not bad, huh?
He asked Scott. "Christ, no. Kinda hits you between the eyes.
Scott rubbed them to clear off the invading fog. "After a couple of days it won't get you so bad," Spook said. "You said you wanted to do a fair story on hackers, right?" "Fair?
If hackers act and talk like assholes then they'll come across like assholes, no matter what I do.
However, if they make a decent case, hold a rational, albeit arguable position, then maybe someone may listen." "You sound like you don't approve of our activities.
The Spook grinned devilishly. "Honestly, and I shouldn't say this cause this is your grass," Scott said lighting the joint again.
No, I don't approve, but I figure there's at least 10 sides to a story, and I'm here to find that story and present all sides.
Hopefully I can even line up a debate or two.
Convincing me is not the point; my readers make up their own minds." The word 'readers' momentarily jolted the Spook until he realized Scott meant newspaper readers, not his team of Van-Ecking eaves- droppers.
Spook took the joint from Scott.
You sound like you don't want to approve." "Having a hard time with all the crap going down with computers these days," Scott agreed.
I guess my attitude comes through in my articles." "I've never read your stuff," Spook lied. "Mainly in New York." "That explains it.
Ever been to Amsterdam?" "No, I was going to get a map and truck around . . ." "How about I show you around, and try to convince you about the honor of our profession?
But what about . . .
He made a motion to his lips as if he was holding a cigarette. "Legal on the streets." "You sure?" "C'mon," Spook said rising from his chair.
Chris, see you later," he promised.
Chris reciprocated and invited his two new friends to return any time. Scott followed Spook up the alley named Bakkerstraat and into the Rembrandt Plein, a huge open square with cafes and street people and hotels.
At night," Spook said, "Rembrandt and another 4 or 5 pleins are the social hub of activity for the younger genera- tion.
Wished I had had this when I was a kid.
The Spook amorously ogled the throngs of young women twenty years his junior. "Fine, why?" "I'm going to show you Amsterdam." Scott and the Spook began walking.
The Spook knew his way around and described much of the history and heritage of the city, the country and its culture.
This kind of educated hacker was not what Scott had expected.
He had thought that today's hackers were nerds, the propeller heads of his day, but he was discover- ing through the Spook, that he may have been wrong.
Scott remem- bered Clifford Stoll's Hanover Hacker was a well positioned and seemingly upstanding individual who was selling stolen computer information to the KGB.
How many nerds would have the gumption to play in that league? They walked to the outer edge of Old Amsterdam, on the Singel- gracht at the Leidseplein.
Without a map or the Spook, Scott would have been totally lost.
The streets and canals were all so similar that, as the old phrase goes, you can't tell the players without a scorecard.
Scott followed the Spook onto an electric street car.
It headed down the Leidsestraat, one of the few heavily commercial streets and across the Amstel again. The street car proceeded up the Nieuwezuds Voorburgwal, a wide boulevard with masses of activities on both sides.
This was tourist madness, thought Scott. "This is freedom," said the Spook. "Freedom?
The word instantly conjured his memory of the Freedom League, the BBS he suspected was up to no-good.
The Spook and Freedom? "At the end of this street is the Train Station.
Thousands of people come through this plaza every day to experience Amsterdam. Get whatever it is out of their system.
The drugs, the women, the anarchy of a country that relies upon the integrity of its population to work.
The Spook positively glowed as he basked in the aura of the city. Scott had indeed felt it during their several hours together.
An intense sense of independence that came from a generation of democratic socialism.
Government regulated drugs, a welfare system that permitted the idle to live nearly as well as the working.
Class structures blurred by taxes so extraordinarily high that most everyone lived in similarly comfortable condi- tions.
Poverty is almost non-existent. Yet, as the Spook explained to Scott, "This is not the world for an entrepreneur.
That distinction still belongs to the ol' Red, White and Blue.
It's almost impossible to make any real money here." The sun was setting behind the western part of the city, over the church steeples and endless rows of townhouses. "Hungry yet?
Spook grinned at Scott. "Hungry?
I got a case of the munchies that won't quit.
Scott's taste buds were entering panic mode. "Good," the Spook said as he lit up another joint on the street car.
He hastily leapt off the slow moving vehicle. Scott followed him across the boulevard and dodged cars, busses and bicycles.
The red and white plastic checkered tablecloths severely clashed with the gilt of the pagoda shaped decorations throughout.
But only by American tastes.
Sarang Mas was a much touted and reputable restaurant with very fine native Indonesian chefs doing the preparations. "Let me tell you something," the Spook said.
This food is the absolute finest food available, anywhere in the world, bar no idyllic island location, better than a trip to Hershey, Pennsyl- vania to cure a case of the munchies.
It's delicate, it's sweet, it's taste bud heaven, it's a thousand points of flavor you've never tried before.
The Spook sounded like a hawker on the Home Shopping Network. "Shut up," Scott joked.
You're just making it worse." "Think of the oral orgasm that's coming.
The waiter had appeared and waited patiently.
It was still early and the first seating crowd was two hours away.
Do you mind if I order?" "No, be my guest.
Just make it fast food.
Super fast food," Scott begged. "Ah, let's have a couple of Sate Kambings to start, ah, and we'll share some Daguig Goreng, and some Kodok Goreng and ah, the Guila Kambing.
And," Spook looked at Scott, "a couple of Heinekens?" Scott nodded.
Scott chewed up three straws and tore two napkins into shreds while waiting. "What is this," asked Scott as he voraciously dove into the food. "Does it matter?" "No," Scott bit into it.
Mmmmmmm . . .Holy shit, that's good, what is it?" "Goat parts," the Spook said with a straight face. Scott stopped chewing.
Which goat parts?" he mumbled staring over the top of his round glasses. "The good parts," said the Spook taking two big bites.
Only the good parts." "It's nothing like, eyeballs, or lips or . . .
Scott was gross- ing himself out. "No, no, paysan, eat up.
The Spook made the Italian gesture for eating.
The Spook chuckled as he ravaged the unidentifiable goat parts on his plate. Scott looked suspiciously at the Spook, who seemed to be surviv- ing.
How bad could it be?
It tasted great, phenomenal, but what is it?
Scott wolfed down his goat parts in total ecsta- sy.
This was the best tasting food he had had, ever. The rest of the meal was as sensorally exquisite as the appetiz- er.
Scott felt relieved once the waiter had promised that the goat parts were from a goat roast, just like a rib roast or a pork roast.
Nothing disgusting like ear lobes.
Ecch! "So you want to know why we do it," said the Spook in between nibbles of Indonesian frog legs.
Scott had to think hard to realize that the Spook had shifted the conversation to hacking. "It had occurred to me," responded Scott.
Why do you do it?" "I've always liked biology, so hacking became the obvious choice," Spook said laughing.
Scott looked perplexed but that didn't interrupt his voracious attack on the indescribably deli- cious foods on his plate. "How old are you?
Asked the Spook. "The Big four-oh is in range." "Good, me too.
Remember Marshall McCluhan?" "The medium is the message guru.
Scott had admired him and made considerable effort to attend a few of his highly motivating lectures. "Exactly.
He predicted it 20 years early.
The Spook paused to toss more food into his mouth.
How much do you know about computers?" "I'm learning," Scott said modestly.
Whenever asked that ques- tion he assumed that he was truly ignorant on the subject despite his engineering degree.
It was just that computers had never held the fascination for him that they did for others. "O.K., let me give you the low down.
The Spook sucked down the last of the Heineken and motioned to the waiter for two more.
He wiped his lips and placed his napkin beside the well cleaned plate.
At what point does something become alive?" "Alive?
When some carbon based molecules get the right combination of gases in the proper proportions of tempera- ture and pressure . . ." "C'mon, guy.
Use your imagination," the Spook scoffed with his eyes twinkling.
Biologically, you're right, but philosophically that's pretty fucking lame.
Bart Simpson could come up with better than that.
The Spook could be most insulting without even trying.
Let me ask you, is the traffic light system in New York alive?" "No way!
It's dead as a doornail, programmed for grid lock.
They both laughed at the ironic choice for analogy. "Seriously, in many ways it can be considered alive," the Spook said.
It uses electricity as its source of power or food. Therefore it eats, has a digestive system and has waste product; heat.
That was a familiar personification for engineer- ing students. "And, if you turn off the power, it stops functioning.
A tempo- rary starvation if you will.
It interacts with its environment; in this case with sensors and switches that react to the condi- tions at any particular moment.
And lastly, and most important- ly, it has purpose.
Scott raised his eyebrows skeptically. "The program, the rules, those are its purpose.
It is coinciden- tally the same purpose that its designers had, but nonetheless it has purpose." "That doesn't make it alive.
It can't think, as we do, and there is no ego or personality," Scott said smugly. "So what?
Since when does plankton or slime mold join Mensa? That's sentience.
Spook walked right over Scott's comment. "O.K.," Scott acquiesced.
I'm here to play Devil's Advocate, not make a continent of enemies." "Listen, you better learn something early on," Spook leaned in over the table.
His seriousness caught Scott's attention.
You can disagree with us all you want, that's not a problem, most everyone does.
But, we do expect fairness, personal and profes- sional." "Meaning?" "Meaning," the dimples in Spook's smiling cheeks radiated cama- raderie.
Don't give up on an argument so early if you believe in it.
That's a chicken shit way out of taking a position.
The Spook finished off his Heineken in two gulps. Scott's tension eased realizing the Spook wanted the debate, the confrontation.
This week could be a lot more fun than he had thought. "At any rate, can you buy into that, that the traffic systems are alive?
The Spook asked again. "I'll hold my final judgment in abeyance, but for sake of discus- sion, let's continue," acquiesced Scott. "Fair enough.
In 1947, I think that was the year, some guy said that he doubted there would be world wide market for more than three computers." Scott choked on his beer.
What mental moron came up with that?" "Watson.
Thomas Watson, founder of IBM," the Spook said dead pan. "You're kidding." "And what about Phil Estridge?" "Who's that?" "Another IBM'er," said the Spook.
He was kind of a renegade, worked outside of the mainstream corporate IBM mold.
His bosses told him, 'hey, we need a small cheap computer to tie to our bigger computers.
This little company Apple is selling too many for us not to get involved.
By the way, Corporate Headquarters thinks this project is a total waste of money; they've been against it from the outset.
So, you have 8 months.
They gave him 8 months to build a computer that would set standards for generations of machines.
And, he pulled it off.
Damned shame he died. "So, here we have IBM miss-call two of the greatest events in their history yet they still found ways to earn tens of billions of dollars.
Today we have, oh, around a hundred million comput- ers in the world.
That's a shitload of computers.
And we're cranking out twelve million more each year. "Then we tied over fifty million of these computers together.
We used local area networks, wide area networks, dedicated phone lines, gate ways, transmission backbones all in an effort to allow more and more computers to talk to each other.
With the phone company as the fabric of the interconnection of our comput- ers we have truly become a networked society.
Satellites further tighten the weave on the fabric of the Network.
With a modem and telephone you have the world at your fingertips.
The Spook raised his voice during his passionate monologue. "Now we can use computers in our cars or boats and use cellular phone links to create absolute networkability.
In essence we have a new life form to deal with, the world wide information Network." "Here's where we definitely diverge," objected Scott, hands in the air.
Arriving at the conclusion that a computer network is a life form, requires a giant leap of faith that I have trouble with." "Not faith, just understanding," the Spook said with sustained vigor.
We can compare networks to the veins and blood vessels in our bodies.
The heart pumps the blood, the lungs replenish it, the other organs feed off of it.
The veins serve as the thoroughfares for blood just as networks serve as highways for information.
However, the Network is not static, where a fixed road map describes its operation.
Some conduits are much smarter than others.
The Network itself is a set of rules by which information is transmitted over a conductive material. You can't touch a network.
Sure, you can touch the computer, the network wire, you can touch the bits and pieces that make up the Network, but you cannot touch the Network.
The Network exists as a synergistic byproduct of many dissimilar and physically isolat- ed devices." "I must admit Spook . . ." "That's Mister Spook to you earth man," joked the Spook.
Sorry, continue." "I could probably nickel and dime you into death by boredom on several points, but I will concede that they are arguable and better relegated for a long evening of total disagreement.
For the sake of world peace I will not press the issue now." "How very kind," mocked the Spook.
Let's get out of here, take a walk, and I'll continue your education." If anyone else spoke to Scott so derogatorily, there would be instant conflict.
The Spook, though, didn't raise the defense mechanism in Scott.
Spook was actually a likable fellow, if somewhat arrogant. They walked back down Nieuwezuds Voorburgwal and Beursplein very slowly.
The Spook lit up another joint. "What's this," said Scott appreciatively, "an endless supply?" "When in Rome!" replied Spook.
The brightly lit grand boulevard was a sample of the energy that permeates the Amsterdam night life.
The train station was still a hub of activity in the winter darkness of early evening. "So look at the Network.
You can cut off its tentacles, that's better than legs and feet in this case, and they will reappear, reconnect somewhere else.
Alternate routing bypasses trouble spots, self diagnostics help the Network doctors, priority and preferences are handled according to a clear set of rules." Spook waved his hands to reinforce his case. "That's, ah, quite, ah, a theory.
What do the experts say about this?
Scott was teetering on the edge of partial acceptance. "Experts?
That's why we hack, don't you see?
The answer was so obvious it didn't deserve a question. "Now, I can only speak for myself, but I find that the Network organism itself is what's interesting.
The network, the sponta- neously grown information organism that covers most of the planet Earth.
I believe that is why all hackers start hacking.
Innate curiosity about the way things work.
Then, before our eyes, and behind the back of the world, the planet gets connected, totally connected to each other, and we haven't examined the ramifica- tions of that closeness, computer-wise that is.
The Spook sounded satisfied with his explanation. Scott thought about it as they crossed Kerksplein and over canals to the Oude Zijds Voorbugwal.
Was the Spook spouting off a lot of rationalized bullshit or were he and the likes of him actually performing valuable services, acting as technological sociolo- gists to five billion clients?
If a network was alive, thought Scott, it was alive in the sense that a town or village is alive, as the sum of its parts.
As a society is alive.
If the computer terminal and its operator are members of a global village, as are thousands of other computer users, might that not be considered a society?
Communications are indeed different, but Scott remem- bered that Flatland was considered a valid society with a unique perspective on the universe.
Is it any different than the tele- phone, which connects everyone on the planet?
Shit, Spook made some sense. They paused on a bridge by the Voorsbugwal, and a few blocks down the canal Scott saw a concentration of bright lights.
He asked. "Poontang," the Spook said lasciviously. "Say wha?
Scott asked "This is Horny Heaven, Ode to Orgasm, Pick a Perversion.
The Spook proudly held his arms out. "Aha, the Red Light District," Scott added dryly. "Don't take the romance out of it, this is sleaze at it's best. Believe me I know.
Somehow Scott had no doubts.
With the way Spook was passionately describing the specific acts and services available within the 10 square block hotbed of sex, Scott knew that the Spook was no novice.
Yab Yub is first class but this'll do me just fine.
Ready for some serious debauching?
Oh, I don't know, I've never been terribly fond of hookers." "First time when I was 13.
My uncle took me to a whorehouse for my birthday.
Shit," the Spook fondly grinned at the memory. "I'll never forget the look on my mom's face when he told her. She lectured him for a week.
It's so funny, you know.
The variety of sexual mate- rials was beyond comprehension.
Spook seemed to be avidly fluent in their description and application.
In one window, a spiked dildo of emmense girth and length dominated the display.
Scott grimaced at the weapon while the Spook commented on it's possible uses at an adult sit'n'spin party. "Here's the live sex show," the Spook said invitingly.
Scott leaned over to view a set of graphic photographs that would have caused the Meese Commission on Pornography to double dose on its Geritol. "Damn, they show this stuff on the street, huh?
Asked the sur- prised Scott.
He wasn't naive, it was just quite a shock to see such graphic sexuality in such a concentration and in such an open manner.
On Sundays when the Red Light District is closed until 6 P.M., many Dutch families use the window dressings as the textbook for their children's' sex education.
No, let's keep going," Scott said unconvinced he would partake of the pleasures. "Isn't this great?
The Spook blurted out as Scott was looking in the window of one of the hundred plus sex shops.
Remember I was telling you about freedom in Amsterdam?
It's kind of like the hacker's ethic." Spook was going to equate sex and hacking?
Is that 'cause all hacker's are hard up?
Scott laughed. "No, dig it.
The Spook suddenly stopped to face Scott.
Free- dom, total freedom implies and requires responsibility.
Without that, the system would collapse into chaotic anarchy.
Hacking is a manifestation of freedom.
Once we have cracked a system, and are in it, we have the freedom to do anything we want.
But that freedom brings responsibility too, and, just like with sex so freely available, legally, it must be handled with care.
Spook was sermonizing again, but was making more sense.
His parallels were concise and poignant. They walked further into the heart of the District and the Spook was constantly distracted by the quantity of red lights over the basement and first floor windows.
He wanted to closely examine the contents of every one.
In each window was a girl, sometimes two, clad in either a dental floss bathing suit or a see through penoire.
Scott enjoyed the views, but thought that the Spook was acting somewhat obsessively.
The calm, professional, knowledge- able hacker had reverted into a base creature, driven by hormonal compulsion.
Or then again, maybe they were just stoned. "I gotta pick the right one, just the right one," the Spook said. "Let's see what else is available.
Got to find you a good one, too." Scott shook his head.
I don't know . . ." "What, you don't wanna get laid?
What's the matter with you?" The Spook couldn't believe his ears. The sheer intensity of the omnipresent sexual stimulation gave Scott the urge to pause and ask himself why.
The desire was physically manifest, but the psychology of hookers; it wasn't his style.
In the three years since he and Maggie had split, Scott occassioned to spend time with many ladies.
He had kept himself in reasonable shape without doing becoming fanatic about it, and his high metabolism helped keep the body from degenerating ahead of schedule.
So he had had his share of companionship and oppor- tunity, but right now he was enjoying the freedom of his work and the pleasures that that offered.
If a woman was in the cards, so be it, but it was not essential at the moment. "Nothing, it's just that, well, I prefer to know the lady, if you know what I mean." "Oh, no problem!
The Spook had an answer.
That's an all night- er and will cost you 1000 guilders." "No, no," Scott said quickly.
I just don't get a charge from hookers.
Now, if some friends set it up to like a real pick-up, at the beach, a bar, whatever, as long as I didn't know.
I been a couple of times, just for giggles.
And boy was it giggles." Scott laughed out loud at the memory.
The first time it was a friend's birthday and a bunch of us put up enough to get him laid at the Chicken Ranch.
That was the evening Scott had lost almost two hours of his life on the drive back to Vegas.
He speculated to himself, in private, that he may been abducted by alien creatures from a UFO.
Right. "I know the place," added the Spook. "I was designated drunk driver so I drove him over to the high desert in the company van, about an hour's drive.
Before we went in I insisted on a couple of beers.
He was getting laid and I was nervous.
At any rate, the security cameras let us in and two very attractive ladies in slinky gowns lead us over to the couch.
They immediately assumed that we were both there for, well, the services.
I was too embarrassed to say no, that I wasn't interested, but then out came a line of 20 of the most gorgeous girls you could imagine.
The madam, I forget her name, stepped in and begged our indulgence for the interruption.
It seems, she said, that the BBC was filming a documentary on broth- els, and they had a camera crew in the next room, and would we mind too terribly much if they filmed us?
Scott feigned extreme shock. "Filmed you?
Even I won't go that far," the Spook said impressed with Scott's story.
My movies are all first run private.
Alphabetical from Adelle to Zelda." "Not film that, pervert!
He had pegged the Spook.
They only filmed the selection process, the initial meetings and then the walk down the hallways to the bedrooms." "So what'd you do?
Listen, that was a long time ago, before I was mar- ried, and I don't want it to screw up our divorce.
Three years of bliss." The Spook kept laughing.
You really are a home boy, huh?
They continued down a side street and back up the Oude Zijds Achterburgwal, the other main canal in the Dis- trict, so Spook could check out more windows.
Those with the curtain drawn indicated that either services were being rendered or that it was lunch hour.
Hard to tell. As they passed the Guys and Gals Sex Shop, the Spook abruptly stopped and stepped back toward the canal.
He whistled to him- self in appreciation of the sex goddesses that had captured his attention.
In the basement window was a stunning buxom brunette, wearing an invisible g-string and bra.
She oozed sexuality with her beckoning lips and fingers when she spotted the Spook's interest.
In the first floor window above the brunette were two perfectly voluptuous poster blondes, in matching transparent peignoirs.
They too, saw the Spook, and attempted to seduce him to their doorway.
Scott was impressed that the ladies were so attractive. "Some sweet meat, huh?
Said the Spook ogling his choices.
Well are you or aren't you?
You get first choice: 2 from window A or 1 from window B. What'll it be?" Scott responded immediately.
I got a safer way.
There are five billion people on the planet, and at any given time at least a million have to be having sex.
So all I have to do is tune into the Planetary Consciousness, the ultimate archetype, and have an orgasm anytime I want." "You're a sick mother," laughed the Spook.
At least I can tell the difference between pussy and pray- ing.
He asked Scott again to pick a girl. "I have to pass.
It's just not my thing.
Spook glared at him askance.
I'm a bit tired, I just arrived this morning.
He had forgotten to take his 3 hour afternoon nap and it was close to 6 in the morning body time.
I'll see you at the conference tomorrow.
He motioned to the girls that he would like to hire all three of them, at once. They indicated that that would be a fine idea.
Listen, I don't mean to be rude, but . . ." the Spook said to Scott as he pro- ceeded up the stairs to meet the female triumvirate.
He turned briefly in the open doorway with two of the girls tugging at his clothes.
What happens if the medium or the message gets sick?
The door closed behind the Spook as the girls shed their clothes. "Medium?
Jeez you are really fucked," laughed Scott.
Pervert!" He called out as the window curtains closed. Scott got directions to the Eureka! from a live sex show sales- man.
For all the walking he and the Spook had done, miles and miles, it was odd that they had ended up only a few blocks away from the hotel.
Ah, but that would figure, thought Scott.
The Sex Starved Spook was staying at the Europa around the corner from Sin Street.
Scott rolled a joint of his own to enjoy for the pleasant evening promenade home along the canals.
In one breath, perfectly rational, but then the Jekyll and Hyde hormone hurricane.
Wow. What Scott Mason could never have imagined, indeed quite the opposite, was that the Spook was unable to respond to the three very attentive ladies he had hired for that very purpose.
No matter what stimuli they effected, the Spook's brain could not command his body to respond.
His confusion alternated with embarrassment which made the problem only worse.
Never before had the Spook had such a problem.
One of the ladies spoke to him kindly.
Hey, it happens to everyone once in a while.
At hearing that he jumped up, removed the loose condom and zipped his pants while screaming, "Not to me.
It doesn't happen to me!" Scott did not know that the Spook bolted into the street and started running, in panic, away from the scene of his most pri- vate of failures.
He ran all the way, in fact beating Scott to his hotel.
He was driven by the terror of the first sexual failure in his life.
The Spook felt emasculated as he sought a rationalization that would allow him to retain a shred of digni- ty. He was used to commanding women, not being humiliated by them. What was wrong?
Women fell all over him, but why this?
What the hell is going on?
He paced to the other side of the small confining room.
I'm getting pressure from all sides.
That damned FBI guy is making a nuisance of himself.
The media smells a conspiracy and the Director is telling me to ignore it.
Sorenson stood in front of Templer. "And, now, no, it's not bad enough, but 8 more of the mothers go off.
He slammed his fist onto the desk. "We can explain one to the Pentagon, but nine?
Martin asked skeptically. "See what I mean?
Sorenson pointed. Sorenson and Templer attended the ECCO and CERT roundups twice a week since they began after the first EMP-T explosion. "These are the Sats?
Templer leaned over to the desk.
Corners of several high resolution satellite photographs sneaked out from a partially open folder.
Sorenson opened the folder and spread the photos across the surface.
They weren't optical photographs, but the familiar map shapes of the central United States were visible behind swirls and patterns of a spectrum of colors.
The cameras and computer had been instructed to look at selected bandwidths, just as infrared vision lets one see at night.
In this case, though, the filters excluded everything but frequen- cies of the electromagentic spectrum of interest. "Yeah," Sorenson said, pointing at one of the photos.
This is where we found the first one.
Sorenson pulled another photo out.
It was a computer enhanced blowup of the first satellite photo.
Then he showed his teeth and said, "unofficially we have them everywhere." "So who was hit?" "Here?
Can't say when they'll be back in business. Thank God no one was killed.
They weren't so lucky in Texas." Sorenson pulled a couple more photographs and a fuzzy dot and it's fuzzy cloud mate were clearly visible in the Houston area. "EDS Computers," said Sorenson.
They do central processing for hundreds of companies.
Every one, gone. And then here.
He scattered more photos with the now recogniz- able fuzzy white dots. "Mid-State Farm Insurance, Immigration and Naturalization, Na- tional Bank, General Inter-Dynamics, CitiBank, and the Sears mail order computers.
Ya, no problem, it's a short ride. To Scott's surprise he found himself passing by the same sex emporium where he had left the Spook last evening.
Scott reminded himself to ask Spook how it went.
The taxi stopped in front of an old building that had no signs of use.
It was number 44, but just in case, Scott asked the driver to wait a moment.
He walked up the door and finding no bell, rapped on the heavy wooden door. "Ya?
A muffled voice asked through the door. "Is Jon there?
Scott knowingly looked at the cab driver. "Who?" Scott looked at the number again and then remembered what Jon had told him.
Kirk said you'd expect me." "Ah, ya!
The door opened and Scott happily waved off the cab.
Welcome, please, come in." Scott entered a dark chamber as the door closed behind him.
I am Clay, that's French for key." Wonderful, thought Scott.
Is Jon here?" "Everyone is here." "I thought it didn't begin until eleven," Scott said looking at his watch. "Ah, ya, well," the Dutch accented Clay said.
It is difficult to stop sometimes.
We have been here all night." Scott followed Clay up a darkened flight of steps.
At mid land- ing Clay opened a door and suddenly the dungeon-like atmosphere vanished.
Inside the cavernous room were perhaps 200 people, mostly men, excitedly conversing and huddling over computers of every imaginable model.
The high ceiling was liberally dressed with fluorescent tubing which accentuated the green hues from many of the computer monitors.
The walls were raw brick and the sparse decorations were all computer related.
Windows at the two ends of the building added enough daylight to take some of the edge off of the pallid green aura. "What should I do?
Asked Scott looking around the large room which was probably overcrowded by modern safety counts. "The Flying Dutchman said he will see you a little later," Clay said.
Many of our members know Repo Man is a reporter, and you are free to look and ask anything.
Clay quickly disappeared into the congregation. Scott suddenly felt abandoned and wished he could disappear. Like those dreams where you find yourself stark naked in a public place.
He felt that his computer naivete was written all over his face and he would be judged thus, so instead he tried to ignore it by perusing the walls.
He became amused at the selec- tion of art, poster art, Scotch taped to the brick. The first poster had Daffy Duck, or reasonable facsimile thereof, prepared to bring a high speed sledgehammer in contact with a keyboard.
Hit any key to continue," was the simple poster's message.
Another portrayed a cobweb covered skeleton sitting behind a computer terminal with a repairman standing over him asking a pertinent question.
System been down long?" One of the ruder posters consisted of Ronald Reagan with a super- imposed hand making a most obscene manual gesture.
The poster was entitled, "Compute This!" Scott viewed the walls as if in an art gallery, not a hackers convention.
He openly laughed when he saw a poster from the National Computer Security Center, a working division of the National Security Agency.
A red, white and blue Uncle Sam, finger pointing, beckoned, "We want YOU! to secure your computer.
In an open white space on the poster someone wrote in, "Please list name and date if you have already cracked into an NSA computer.
Beneath were a long list of Hacker Handles with the dates they had entered the super secret agency's comput- ers.
Were things really that bad, Scott asked himself. "Repo Man?" Scott turned quickly to see a large, barrel chested, red haired man with an untamed beard in his early forties approach him rapidly.
The man was determined in his gait.
Scott answered, "Yes . . .? "Ya, I'm the Flying Dutchman," he said hurriedly in a large boom- ing voice.
He vigorously shook Scott's hand with a wide smile hidden behind the bushy red face.
You enjoyed Am- sterdam last night, ya?
He expected a positive answer.
Sex was no crime here. "Well," Scott blushed.
I must say it was a unique experience," he said carefully so as not to offend Holland's proud hosts. "But I think the Spook had more fun than I did." The Flying Dutchman's hand went limp.
His astonishment was clear. "Yeah, why?
No one has seen him in years." "Yeah, well he's alive and well and screwing his brains out with three of Amsterdam's finest," Scott said with amusement.
What's the big deal?" "The Spook, ya this is goot," the Flying Dutchman said clapping his hands together with approval.
He was the greatest phreak of his day.
He retired years ago, and has only been seen once or two times maybe.
He is a legend." "A phreak?" "Oh, ya, ya.
A phreak," he said speaking rapidly.
Before home computers, in the 1960's and 1970's, hacking meant fighting the phone company.
In America you call it Ma Bell, I believe.
Cap- tain Crunch was the epitome of phone phreaks." These names were a bit much, thought Scott, but might add a sense of levity to his columns.
Scott asked with skepticism. "Ya, Captain Crunch.
He blew the plastic whistle from a Captain Crunch cereal box into the phone," the Flying Dutchman held an invisible whistle to his lips.
And it opened up an inside line to make long distance calls.
Then he built and sold Blue Boxes which recreated the tones to make free calls." "Phreaking and computer hacking, they're the same?" "Ya, ya, especially for the older hackers.
The Flying Dutchman patted himself on the stomach.
You see hacking, some call it cracking, is taking a system to its limit.
Exploring it, master- ing the machine.
The phones, computers, viruses, it's all hack- ing.
You understand?" "Spook called hacking a technique for investigating new spontane- ously generated lifeforms.
He said a network was a living being. We got into quite an argument about it.
Scott sounded mildly derisive of the theory. The Dutchman crossed his arms, grinned wide and rocked back and forth on his heels.
That sounds like the Spook. Cutting to the heart of the issue.
Ya, you see, we all have our reasons why we hack, but ya, Spook is right.
We forget sometimes that the world is one giant computer, with thousands and millions of arms, just like the brain.
The neurons," he pointed at his head, "are connected to each other with synapses.
Just like a computer network." The Flying Dutchman's explanation was a little less ethereal than the Spook's and Scott found himself anticipating further enlight- enment. "The neuron is a computer.
It can function independently, but because it's capacity is tiny, a neuron is really quite limited in what it can achieve alone.
The synapse is like the network wire, or phone company wiring.
It connects the neurons or com- puters together.
The Dutchman spoke almost religiously as he animatedly drew wires and computers in the air to reinforce the concept.
Have you heard of neural networks?" "Absolutely," Scott said.
The smart chips that can learn." "Ya, exactly.
A neural network is modeled after the brain, too. It is a very large number of cells, just like the brain's cells, that are only connected to each other in the most rudimentary way." "Like a baby's brain?
Scott offered. "Ya, ya, just like a baby.
So like the baby, the neural net grows connections as it learns.
The more connections it makes, the smarter it gets." "Both the baby and the network?" "Ya," Dutchman laughed.
So as the millions of neural connec- tions are made, some people learn skills that others don't and some computers are better suited to certain tasks than others. And now there's a global neural network growing.
Millions more computers are added and we connect them together, until any computer can talk to any other computer.
Ya, the Spook is very much right.
The Network is alive, and it is still learning." Scott was entering a world where the machines, the computers, were personified, indeed imbued with a life of their own by their creators and their programmers.
A highly complex world where inter-relatedness is infinitely more important than the specific function.
Isn't the Network acting as an extension of man?
But then, a hammer is a tool as well, and no one calls a hammer a living being. Unto itself it is not alive, Scott reasoned.
The Network merely emulates the growth patterns and behavior of the cranial highway system.
Do you understand quantum physics?" What the hell would make him ask that question, thought Scott. "I barely passed Quantum 101, the math was too far out for me, but, yes," he laughed kindly, "I do remember the basics.
In the global Network there is no way to predict where the next information packet will be sent.
Will it start here," the Dutchman motioned to his far left, "or here?
There's no way to know.
All we can say, just as in physics, is that there is a probability of data being transferred between any two points. Chance.
And we can also view the Network in operation as both a wave and a particle." "Wait," stopped Scott.
You've just gone over my head, but I get the point, I think.
You and your associates really believe that this global Network is an entity unto itself and that it is growing and evolving on its own as we speak?" "Ya, exactly.
You see, no one person is responsible for the Network, its growth or its care.
Like the brain, many different regions control their own piece of the Network.
And, the Network can still function normally even if pieces of it are disconnect- ed. The split brain studies." "And you're the caretakers for the Network?" doubted Scott. "No. As I said we all have our reasons.
The common denominator is that we treat the Network as an incredibly powerful organism about which we know very, very little.
That is our function - to learn." "What is it that you do?
For a living?" "Ah, ya.
I am Professor of Technological Sociology at the Uni- versity of Amsterdam.
The original proposal for my research came from personal beliefs and concerns; about the way the human race has to learn to cope in the face of great technology leaps.
NATO is funding the research." "NATO," exclaimed Scott.
They fund hacking?" "No," laughed the Dutchman.
They know that hacking is necessary to gather the raw data my research requires, so they pretend not to notice or care.
What we are trying to do is predict what the Baby, the global Network will look and act like when it grows up." "Isn't crystal ball gazing easier?" "Ya, it may be," the Dutchman agreed.
But now, why don't you look around?
I am sure you will find it most educational." The Dutchman asked again about the Spook.
Is he really here in Amsterdam?
And he said he'd be here today?
The Spook, at the conference?
He hasn't made an appearance in years." Well, that's what he told me, he'd be here. Scott profusely thanked his host and assured him that yes, he would ask for anything he needed.
Kirk had been vindicated, thought Scott who had expected a group of pimply faced adolescents with nerd shirts to be bouncing around like Spring Break in Fort Lauderdale. Scott slowly explored the tables loaded with various types of computer gear.
IBM clones were the most common, but an assort- ment of older machines, a CP/M or two, even a Commodore PET proved that expensive new equipment was not needed to become a respected hacker.
Scott reminded himself that this group was the elite of hackerdom.
These were the Hacker's Hackers. In his discussions with Kirk, Scott figured he would see some of the tools of the trade.
But he had no idea of the level of sophistication that was openly, and perhaps, illegally, being demonstrated.
Then again, maybe that's why they hold their Hacker Ho Downs in Amsterdam. Scott learned something very critical early on. "Once you let one of us inside your computer, it's all over.
The universal claim by hackers. Scott no longer had any trouble accepting that.
So the securi- ty guy's job," one short balding middle aged American hacker said, "is to keep us out.
The cracker is kind of like a safecracker, or lock picker.
It's my job to figure out how to get into the computers.
Scott had to stifle a giggle when he found out that this slight man's handle was appropriately Waldo. Waldo went on to explain that he was a henpecked CPA who needed a hobby that would bore his wife to tears.
So he locked himself in the basement, far away from her, and got hooked on computers.
He found that rummaging through other computers was an amusing alternative to watching Honeymooner reruns while his wife kvetched.
After a while, he said he discovered that he had a talent for cracking through the front doors of computers.
On the professional hacker circuit that made Waldo a valuable commodity. The way it works, he explained, was that he would trade access codes for outlines of the contents of the computers.
If he wanted to look further, he maintained a complete indexing system on the contents of thousands of computers world wide.
He admit- ted it was the only exciting part of his life.
The most fun a CPA has," he said calmly, "is cutting up client's credit cards. But me," he added proudly, "I've been in and out of the IRS computers more times than Debbie did it in Dallas." "The IRS computers?
You've been in there?" "Where else does a CPA go, but to the scene of the crime.
Waldo laughed at his joke.
At first it was a game, but once I got into the IRS backplane, which connects the various IRS districts together, the things I found scared me.
No one is in control over there.
They abuse taxpayers, basically honest taxpayers who are genuinely in trouble and need some understand- ing by their government.
Instead they are on the receiving end of a vicious attack by a low level government paper slave who gets his thrills by seizing property.
The IRS is immune from due process.
Scott immediately thought of Tyrone and his constitu- tional ravings the other night. "The IRS's motto is, 'guilty until we cash the check'.
And IRS management ignores it.
Auditors are on a quota basis, and if they don't recover their allotted amounts of back taxes, they can kiss their jobs goodbye.
This alone was a major story.
Such a policy was against everything the Constitution stood for.
Waldo nodded and claimed to have seen the internal policy memoranda.
Essentially, said Waldo, no one.
It was anarchy. "They have the worst security of any agency that should by all rights have the best.
It's a crime against American citizens. Our rights and our privacy have shriveled to nothing.
Waldo, the small CPA, extolled the virtues of fighting the system from within.
From within he could battle the computers that had become the system. "Have you ever, shall I say, fixed files in the IRS computers?" "Many times," Waldo said proudly.
For my clients who were being screwed, sometimes I am asked to help.
It's all part of the job," he said of his beloved avocation. "How many systems have you cracked?
Asked Scott, visibly im- pressed. "I am," Waldo said modestly, "the best.
I have cracked 1187 systems in 3 years.
You gotta remember," Waldo said with pride, "a lot of homework goes into this.
You just don't decide one day to crack a system.
You have to plan it." "So how do you do it?" "O.K., it's really pretty simple.
D'you speak software?" "Listen, you make it real simple, and I won't interrupt.
Here, let me show you on the computer," Waldo said as he leaned over to peck at the keyboard. "The first step to getting into computers is to find where they are located, electronically speaking, O.K.?
Scott agreed that you needed the address of the bank before you could rob it. "So what we do is search for computers by running a program, like an exchange autodialer.
Here, look here," Waldo said pointing at the computer screen.
We select the area code here, let's say 203, that's Connecticut.
Then we pick the prefix, the first three numbers, that's the local exchange.
So let's choose 968," he entered the numbers carefully.
By the way, I wrote this software myself.
Waldo spoke of his software as a proud father would of his first born son.
Scott patted him on the back, urging him to continue. "So we ask the computer to call every number in the 203-968 area sequentially.
When the number is answered, my computer records whether a voice, a live person answered, or a computer answered or if it was a fax machine.
Scott never had imagined that hacking was so systematic. "Then, the computer records its findings and we have a complete list of every computer in that area," Waldo concluded. "That's 10,000 phone calls," Scott realized.
It must cost a fortune and take forever?" "Nah, not a dime.
The phone company has a hole.
It takes my program less than a second to record the response and we're off to the next call.
It's all free, courtesy of TPC," Waldo bragged. "TPC?
Questioned Scott. "The Phone Company," Waldo chuckled. "I don't see how you can do the entire country that way, 10,000 calls at a shot.
In New York there must be ten million phones." "Yes," agreed Waldo, "it is a never ending job.
Phone numbers change, computers come and go, security gets better.
But you have to remember, there are a lot of other people out there doing the same thing, and we all pool our information.
On a good night, if the calls are connected quickly enough, I can go through about a thousand phone numbers.
I figure roughly a month per prefix." "I am amazed, simply amazed.
You know, you always kind of imagine these things are possible, but until it stares you in the face it's black magic." "You wanna know the best part?
I get paid for it, too.
Waldo crouched over and spoke to Scott secre- tively.
Not everyone here approves, but, I sell lists to junk fax mail-order houses.
They want the fax lists.
He continued to be in awe of the possible applications for a technology not as benign as its creators had intended. Scott met other hackers; they were proud of the term even with the current negative connotations it carried.
Some try every possible combination of letters and num- bers, although that is considered an antique method of brute force.
His frazzled speech was matched by an annoying habit of sweeping his stringy hair off his face every few words.
And the Rockefellers are involved too, he assured Scott. "They could declare martial law, today, and take over the coun- try.
Those who control the communications control the power," he oracled.
Did you know," he took Scott into his confidence, "that phones are always on and they have computers recording everything you say and do in your own home.
Not to mention crazy, thought Scott. One of Janis' associates came over to rescue Scott.
Sorry, he's a little enthusiastic and has some trouble communicating on the Earthly plane.
But now they've added new security that, in itself, is flawless, albeit crackable," Alva explained. "Once you get past the passwords, which is trivial, the system asks you three unique questions about yourself for final identi- fication.
Scott agreed with Alva, a voice of apparent moderation.
However, we were already in the phone switch computer, so we programmed in forwarding instructions for all calls that dialed that particular computer.
We then inter- cepted the call and connected it to our computer, where we emu- late the security system, and watched the questions and answers go back and forth.
After a few hours, you have a hundred differ- ent passwords to use.
There are a dozen other ways to do it, of course." "Of course," Scott said sarcastically.
Not in this world it's not.
All's fair in love, war and hacking. The time flew as Scott learned what a tightly knitted clique the hackers were.
The ethos 'honor among thieves' held true here as it did in many adolescent societies, most recently the American Old West.
As a group, perhaps even a subculture, they were arduously taming new territory, each with their own vision of a private digital homestead.
Each one taking on the system in their own way, they still needed each other, thus they looked aside if another's techno-social behavior was personally dis- tasteful.
The Network was big enough for everyone.
A working anarchy that heralded the standard of John Paul Jones as their sole commandment: Don't Tread On Me. He saw tapping devices that allowed the interception of computer data which traveled over phone lines.
Line Monitors and Sniffers were commercially available, and legal; equipment that was nomi- nally designed to troubleshoot networks.
Scott examined the electronic gear to find a manufacturer's identification. "Don't bother, my friend," said a long haired German youth of about twenty. "Excuse me?" "I see you are looking for marks, yes?" "Well, yes.
I wanted to see who made these . . ." "I make them, he makes them, we all make them," he said almost giddily.
The thought of home hobbyists building equipment which the military defends against was anathema to Scott.
This was the same type of equipment that he had seen on the van before it was blown up a couple of months ago.
Tempest busting, he thought. The group was speaking in German, but they were more than glad to switch to English for Scott's benefit.
They sensed his interest as he poked around the assorted monitors and antennas and test equipment. "Ah, you are interested in Van Eck?" asked one of the German hackers.
They maintained a clean cut appearance, and through discussion Scott learned that they were funded as part of a university research project in Frankfurt. Scott watched and listened as they set up a compelling demonstra- tion.
First, one computer screen displayed a complex graphic picture.
Several yards away another computer displayed a foggy image that cleared as one of the students adjusted the antenna attached to the computer. "Aha!
Lock!" one of them said, announcing that the second comput- er would now display everything that the first computer did.
The group played with color and black and white graphics, word proc- essing screens and spreadsheets.
Each time, in a matter of seconds, they 'locked' into the other computer successfully. Scott was duly impressed and asked them why they were putting effort into such research.
Very simple," the apparent leader of the Frankfurt group said.
This work is classified in both your country and mine, so we do not have access to the answers we need.
So, we build our own and now it's no more classified.
You see?" "Why do you need it?" "To protect against it," they said in near unison.
The next step is to build efficient methods to fight the Van Eck." "Doesn't Tempest do that?" "Tempest?" the senior student said.
It makes the computer weigh a thousand pounds and the monitor hard to read.
There are better ways to defend.
To defend we must first know how to attack.
That's basic." "Let me ask you something," Scott said to the group after their lengthy demonstration.
Do you know anything about electromag- netic pulses?
You mean like from a nuclear bomb?" "Yes, but smaller and designed to only hurt computers." "Oh, ya.
We have wanted to build one, but it is beyond our means." "Well," Scott said smugly, "someone is building them and setting them off." "Your stock exchange.
To most engineers, and Scott could easily relate, every problem has an answer.
The challenge is to accomplish the so-called impossible.
The engi- neer's pride. Jon, the Flying Dutchman finally rescued Scott's stomach from implosion.
A few of the guys want to meet you.
Give you a heavy dose of propaganda," he threatened. "Thank God!
I'm famished and haven't touched the stuff all day. Love to, it's on me," Scott offered.
He could see Doug having a cow.
How could he explain a thousand dollar dinner for a hundred hungry hackers? "Say that too loud," cautioned the bearded Dutchman, "and you'll have to buy the restaurant.
Hacking isn't very high on the pay scale." "Be easy on me, I gotta justify lunch for an army to my boss, or worse yet, the beancounters.
And Dutchman had skipped out without notifying anyone.
He assumed control, limited though it was, and led them to the only restaurant he knew, the Sarang Mas.
The group blindly and happi- ly followed.
They even let him order the food, so he did his very best to impress them by ordering without looking at the menu.
And I've never gotten a straight answer.
Other than the philosophical credo of Network is Life, why do you hack?
Scott looked into their eyes. "Or are you just plain nosy?" "I bloody well am!" said the one called Pinball who spoke with a thick Liverpudlian accent.
His jeans were in tatters, in no better shape than his sneakers.
The short pudgy man was mid- twenty-ish and his tall crewcut was in immediate need of reshap- ing. "Nosy?
Asked Scott in disbelief. "Yeah, that's it, mate.
A game the size of life.
Pinball looked at Scott as if to say, that's it.
No hidden meaning, it's just fun.
He swallowed more of the exqui- site food. "Sounds like whoever dies with the most hacks wins," Scott said facetiously. "Right.
Pinball never looked up from his food while talking. Scott scanned his luncheon companions for reaction.
A couple of grunts, no objection.
What an odd assortment, Scott thought.
At least the Flying Dutchman had been kind enough to assemble an English speaking group for Scott's benefit. "We each have our reasons to hack," said the one who called himself Che2.
By all appearance Che2 seemed more suited to a BMW than a revolutionary cabal.
He was a well bred American, dressed casually but expensively.
It is people like me who help gov- ernments formulate rules that decide who lives and who dies in emergency situations.
The right or wrong of weapons of mass destruction.
Ethics is a social moving target that must con- stantly be re-examined as we as a civilized people grow and strive to maintain our innate humanity." "So you equate hacking and ethics, in the same breath?
Scott asked. "I certainly do," said the middle aged German hacker known as Solon.
I am part of a group that promotes the Hacker Ethic.
It is really quite simple, if you would be interested.
Scott urged him to continue.
We have before us, as a world, a marvelous opportunity, to create a set of rules, behavior and attitudes towards this magnificent technology that blossoms before our eyes.
That law is the Ethic, some call it the Code.
Kirk had called it the Code, too. "The Code is quite a crock," interrupted a tall slender man with disheveled white hair who spoke with an upper crust, ever so proper British accent.
Unless everybody follows it, from A to Zed, it simply won't work.
There can be no exceptions.
We are already well on the road to a date with Silicon Armageddon.
We didn't do it with the Bomb, but it looks like we're sure as hell gonna do it with technology for the masses.
In this case computers." Going only by 'Dave', he was a Philosophy Professor at Stanford. In many ways he spoke like the early Timothy Leary, using tech- nology instead of drugs as a mental catalyst.
Scott though of Dave as the futurist in the group. "He's right.
It is happening, right now.
Long Live the Revolu- tion," shouted Che2.
I want everyone to have the tools to get into the Govern- ment's Big Brother computer system and make the changes they see fit." Scott listened as his one comment spawned a heated and animated discussion.
He wouldn't break in unless they went too far afield, wherever that was, or he simply wanted to join in on the conversation. "How can you support freedom without responsibility?
You contra- dict yourself by ignoring the Code.
Solon made his comment with Teutonic matter of factness in between mouthfuls. "It is the most responsible thing we can do," retorted Che2.
It is our moral duty, our responsibility to the world to protect our privacy, our rights, before they are stripped away as they have been since the Republicans bounced in, but not out, over a decade ago.
He turned in his chair and glared at Scott.
Maybe thirty years old, Che2 was mostly bald with great bushes of curly dark brown hair encircling his head.
The lack of hair emphasized his large forehead which stood over his deeply inset eyes.
I do beg your pardon, but this so violates the tenets of civilized behavior.
What this gentleman proposes is the philosophical antithesis of common sense and rationality.
DRDR's comment hushed the table.
Is it not true that security is being installed as a result of many of our activities?" Several nods of agreement preceded a small voice coming from the far end of the table.
If you want to call it security.
A small pre-adolescent spoke in a high pitched whine. "What do you mean . . .I'm sorry, I don't know what to call you," asked Scott. "GWhiz.
The security is a toy." GWhiz spoke unpretentiously about how incredibly simple it is to crack any security system.
He maintained that there are theoret- ical methods to crack into any, and he emphasized any, computer. "It's impossible to protect a computer 100%.
So that means that every computer is crackable.
He offered to explain the math to Scott who politely feigned ignorance of decimal points.
In short, I, or anyone, can get into any computer they want.
There is always a way." "Isn't that a scary thought?
Scott asked to no one in particu- lar. Scott learned from the others that GWhiz was a 16 year old high school junior from Phoenix, Arizona.
He measured on the high-end of the genius scale, joined Mensa at 4 and already had in hand scholarships from Westinghouse, Mellon, CalTech, MIT, Stanford to name a few.
At the tender age of 7 he started programming and was now fluent in eleven computer languages.
GWhiz was regarded with an intellectual awe from hackers for his theoretical analy- ses that he had turned into hacking tools.
He was a walking encyclopedia of methods and techniques to both protect and attack computers.
To GWhiz, straddling the political fence by arming both sides with the same weapons was a logical choice.
Scott viewed it as a high tech MAD - Mutual Assured Destruction, com- puter wise. "Don't you see," said the British DRDR, continuing as if there had been no interruption.
The media portrays us as security breaking phreaks, and that's exactly what we are.
And that works for the establishment as well.
We keep the designers and securi- ty people honest by testing their systems for free.
What a great deal, don't you think?
We, the hackers of the world, are the Good Housekeeping Seal of security systems by virtue of the fact that either we can or we cannot penetrate them.
If that's not working for the system, I don't know what is." "DRDR's heading down the right path," Dave the futurist spoke up.
Even though he does work for GCHQ." "GCHQ?
Scott asked quickly. "The English version of your NSA," said Pinball, still engrossed in his food. "I do not!" protested DRDR.
Besides, what difference would it make if I did?
He asked more defensively. "None, none at all," agreed Dave.
The effect is the same. However, if you are an MI-5 or MI-6 or whatever, that would show a great deal of unanticipated foresight on the part of your government.
I wish ours would think farther ahead than today's headlines.
I have found that people everywhere in the world see the problem as one of hackers, rather than the fundamental issues that are at stake.
We hackers are manifestations of the problems that technology has bequeathed us.
If any of our governments were actually responsive enough to listen, they would have a great deal of concern for the emerging infrastructure that doesn't have a leader.
Now, I'm not taking a side on this one, but I am saying that if I were the government, I would sure as all hell want to know what was going on in the trenches.
The U.S. especially." Everyone seemed to agree with that. "But they're too caught up in their own meaningless self-sustain- ing parasitic lives to realize that a new world is shaping around them.
When Che2 spoke, he spoke his mind, leaving no doubt as to how he felt.
They don't have the smarts to get involved and see it first hand.
Which is fine by me, because, as you said," he said pointing at DRDR, "it doesn't matter.
They wouldn't listen to him anyway.
It gives us more time to build in de- fenses." "Defenses against what?" asked Scott. "Against them, of course," responded Che2.
The fascist military industrial establishment keeps us under a microscope.
They have spent tens of billions of dollars to construct huge computers, built into the insides of mountains, protected from nuclear attack.
In them are data bases about you, and me, and him and hundreds of millions of others.
There are a lot of these systems, IRS, the Census Department has one, the FBI, the DIA, the CIA, the NSA, the OBM, I can go on.
Che2's voice crescendo'd and he got more demonstrative as the importance he attributed to each subject increased.
These computers con- tain the most private information about us all.
I for one, want to prevent them from ever using that information against me or letting others get at it either.
Solon spoke English with Teutonic precision and a mild lilt that gave his accented words additional credibility.
He sounded like an expert.
I believe, quite strongly, that it is not so complicated to have a major portion of the hacker community live by the Code.
Unless you are intent on damage, no one should have any trouble with the simple Credo, 'leave things as you found them'.
You see, there is nothing wrong with breaking security as long as you're accom- plishing something useful." "Hold on," interrupted Scott.
Am I hearing this right?
You're saying that it's all right to break into a computer as long as you don't do any damage, and put everything right before you leave?" "That's about it.
It is so simple, yet so blanketing in its ramifications.
The beauty of the Code, if everyone lived by it, would be a maximization of computer resources.
Now, that is good for everyone." "Wait, I can't stand this, wait," said Scott holding his hands over his head in surrender.
He elicited a laugh from everyone but Che2.
That's like saying, it's O.K. for you to come into my house when I'm not there, use the house, wash the dishes, do the laundry, sweep up and split.
I have a real problem with that. That's an invasion of my privacy and I would personally resent the shit out of it.
Scott tried this line of reasoning again as he had with Kirk. "Just the point," said DRDR.
When someone breaks into a house it's a civil case.
But this new bloody Computer Misuse Act makes it a felony to enter a computer.
Parliament isn't 100% perfect," he added comically.
DRDR referred to the recent British attempts at legislative guidelines to criminalize certain computer activi- ties. "As you should resent it.
Dave jumped in speaking to Scott. "But there's a higher purpose here.
You resent your house being used by an uninvited guest in your absence.
Well, let's say that you are going to Hawaii for a couple of weeks, and someone discovers that your house is going to be robbed while you're gone.
So instead of bothering you, he house sits.
Your house doesn't get robbed, you return, find nothing amiss, totally unaware of your visitor.
Would you rather get robbed instead?" "Well, I certainly don't want to get robbed, but . . .
I know what it is.
I'm out of control and my privacy is still being violated.
I don't know if I have a quick answer.
Scott looked and sounded perplexed. "Goot!
You should not have a quick answer, for that answer is the core, the essence of the ultimate problem that we all inves- tigate every day.
Solon gestured to their table of seven.
That question is security versus freedom.
Within the world of acade- mia there is a strong tendency to share everything.
That is the other side, security with minimal freedom.
So, there are now four groups with different needs and desires which vary the ratio of freedom to security.
In reality, of course, there will be hundreds of opinions," Solon added for accuracy's sake. "Mathematically, if there is no security, dividing by 0 results in infinite freedom.
Any security at all and some freedom is curtailed.
So, therein the problem to be solved.
It is an age old question that every generation must ask, weigh and decide for itself.
This generation will do the same for information and freedom.
They are inseparable." Scott soaked in the words and wanted to think about them later, at his leisure.
The erudite positions taken by hackers was astonishing compared to what he had expected.
Yes, some of the goals and convictions were radical to say the least, but the arguments were persuasive. "Let me ask you," Scott said to the group.
What happens when computers are secure?
What will you do then?" "They won't get secure," GWhiz said.
The ancients kept the secrets of writing with their religious leaders; traveling by ship in the open sea was a hard learned and noble skill.
Today, weapons of mass destruction are controlled by a few mad men who are no better than you or I.
But now, computers, access to information, that power will never be taken away.
Dave was viewing the future in his own mind.
Asked Scott. "Satellites are pretty interesting.
They are a natural extension of the computer network, and cracking them will be lots easier in a couple of years.
What's there to crack?" "How about beaming your own broadcasts to millions of people using someone else's satellite?
It's been done before, and as the equipment gets cheaper, I can assure you that we'll be seeing many more political statements illegally being made over the public airwaves.
The BBC and NBC will have their hands full.
In the near future, I see virtual realities as an ideal milieu for next generation hackers." "I agree," said Solon.
And with virtual realities, the ethical issues are even more profound than with the Global Network." Scott held up his hands.
I know what _I_ think it is, but before you go on, I need to know how you define a virtual reali- ty.
The hackers looked at each until Dave took the ball. "A virtual reality is fooling the mind and body into believing something is real that isn't real.
Scott's face was blank. "Ever been to Disneyland?
And you've ridden Star Tours?
Well, that's a simple virtual reality.
Star Tours fools your body into thinking that you are in a space ship careening through an asteroid belt, but in reality, you are suspended on a few guy wires.
The projected image reinforces the sensory hallucination." "Now imagine a visual field, currently it's done with goggles, that creates real life pictures, in real time and interacts with your movements." Scott's light bulb went off.
That's like the Holo-Deck on Star Trek!" "That is the ultimate in virtual reality, yes.
But before we can achieve that, imagine sitting in a virtual cockpit of a virtual car, and seeing exactly what you would see from a race car at the Indy 500.
The crowds, the noises, and just as importantly, the feel of the car you are driving.
As you drive, you shift and the car reacts, you feel the car react.
You actually follow the track in the path that you steer.
The combination of sight, sound and hearing, even smell, creates a total illusion.
No more than 5 years," Dave confidently prognosticated. Scott imagined the Spook's interpretation of virtual realities. He immediately conjured up the memory of Woody Allen's Orgasma- tron in the movie Sleeper.
The hackers claimed that computer generated sex was less than ten years away. "And that will be an ideal terrain for hackers.
That kind of power over the mind can be used for terrible things, and it will be up to us to make sure it's not abused.
Che2 maintained his position of guardian of world freedom. As they finished their lunch and Scott paid the check, they thanked him vigorously for the treat.
They might be nuts, but they were polite, and genuine. "I'm confused about one thing," Scott said as they left the restaurant and walked the wide boulevard.
You all advocate an independence, an anarchy where the individual is paramount, and the Government is worse than a necessary evil.
Yet I detect disorganization, no plan; more like a leaf in a lake, not knowing where it will go next.
There were no disagreements with his summary assessment. "Don't any of you work together?
As a group, a kind of a gang? It seems to me that if there was an agenda, a program, that you might achieve your aims more quickly.
Scott was trying to avoid being critical by his inquisitiveness. "Then we would be a government, too, and that's not what we want. This is about individual power, responsibility.
At any rate, I don't think you could find two of us in enough agreement on anything to build a platform.
As usual, Solon maintained a pragmatic approach. "Well," Scott mused out loud.
What would happen if a group, like you, got together and followed a game plan.
Built a hacker's guide book and stuck to it, all for a common cause, which I realize is impossible.
But for argument's sake, what would happen?" "That would be immense power," said Che2.
If there were enough, they could do pretty much what they wanted.
Very political." "I would see it as dangerous, potentially very dangerous," com- mented DRDR.
The effects of synergy in any endeavor are unpredictable.
Personally, I would have to call such a group, terrorists." "Sounds like the Freedom League," Pinball said off handedly. Scott's head jerked toward Pinball.
What about the Freedom League?" he asked pointedly. "All I said is that this political hacking sounds like the Free- dom League," Pinball said innocently.
They bloody well go on for a fortnight and a day about how software should be free to anyone that needs it, and that only those that can afford it should pay.
Like big corporations." "I've heard of Freedom before," piped Scott. "The Freedom League is a huge BBS, mate.
They have hundreds of local BBS's around the States, and even a few across the pond in God's country.
Quite an operation, if I say." Pinball had Scott's full attention.
They run the BBS's, and have an incredible shareware library.
Thousands of programs, and they give them all away." "It's very impressive," Dave said giving credit where credit was due.
They prove that software can be socially responsible. We've been saying that for years." "What does anybody know about this Freedom League?
Scott asked suspiciously. "What's to know?
Each encounter, each discussion, each conversation yielded yet another perspective on the social rational for hacking and the invasion of privacy.
Most everyone at the InterGalactic Hackers Confer- ence had heard about Scott, the Repo Man, and knew why he was there.
He was accepted as a fair and impartial observer, thus many of them made a concerted effort to preach their particular case to him.
They were so well made, that without a close inspection, the pornographic money could easily find itself in the till at a church bake sale. There was a message waiting for Scott when he arrived at the Eureka!
It was from Tyrone and marked urgent.
New York was 6 hours behind, so hopefully Ty was at home.
Scott dialed USA Connect, the service that allows travelers to get to an AT&T operator rather than fight the local phone system. "Make it good.
Tyrone answered his home phone. "Hey, guy.
Scott said cheerily. "Shit, it's about time.
Where the hell have you been?
Tyrone whispered as loud as he could.
It was obvious he didn't want anyone on his end hearing.
You can thank your secretary for telling me where you were staying.
Tyrone spoke quickly. "I'll give her a raise," lied Scott.
He didn't have a secretary. The paper used a pool for all the reporters.
What's the panic?" "Then you don't know.
Of course you didn't hear, how could you?" "How could I hear what?" "The shit has done hit the fan," Tyrone said drawling his words. "Two more EMP-T bombs.
The Atlanta regional IRS office and a payroll service in New Jersey.
A quarter million folks aren't getting paid tomorrow.
And I'll tell you, these folks is mighty pissed off." "Christ," Scott said, mentally chastising himself for not having been where the action was. What lousy timing. "So dig this.
Did you know that the Senate was having open subcommittee hearings on Privacy and Technology Protection?" "No." "Neither do a lot of people.
It's been a completely underplayed and underpromoted effort.
Now the eyes of millions are watching.
Scott yelled across the Atlantic.
That's the eighth. Congress doesn't usually convene until late January . . ." "Used to," Ty said.
The Constitution says that Congress shall meet on January third, after the holidays.
Since the Gulf War Congress has returned in the first week.
Bout time they did something for their paychecks." "Damn," Scott thought out loud. "I knew that would excite you," Tyrone said sarcastically.
Congressman Rickfield, you know who he is?" asked Tyrone. "Yeah, sure.
Long timer on the Hill.
Got as many enemies as he does friends.
And that little weasel is the chair." "I guess you're not on his Christmas list," Scott observed. "I really doubt it," Tyrone said.
But that's off the record. He's been a Southern racist from day one, a real Hoover man. During the riots, in the early '60's, he was not exactly a propo- nent of civil rights.
In fact that slime ball made Wallace look like Martin Luther King.
Tyrone sounded bitter and derisive in his description of Rickfield.
He has no concept what civil rights are.
He makes it a black white issue instead of one of constitutional law.
Stupid bigots are the worst kind.
The derision in Ty's voice was unmistakable. "Sounds like you're a big fan." "I'll be a fan when he hangs high.
Besides my personal and racial beliefs about Rickfield, he really is a low life.
He, and a few of his cronies are one on the biggest threats to personal freedom the country faces.
He thinks that the Bill of Rights should be edited from time to time and now's the time.
Excuse my ignorance . . .
His name had been in those papers he had received so long ago.
What had he done, or what was he accused of doing?
Damn, damn, what is it?
Yes, it was Rickfield, but what was the tie-in? "I think you should be there, at the hearings," Tyrone suggested. "Tomorrow?
Are you out of your mind?
No way," Scott loudly protested.
I'm 3000 miles and 8 hours away and it's the middle of the night here," Scott bitched and moaned.
Besides, I only have to work one more day and then I get the weekend to myself . . . aw, shit." Tyrone ignored Scott's infantile objections.
He attributed them to jet lag and an understandable urge to stay in Sin City for a couple more days.
If you catch an early flight, you could be in D.C. by noon.
He was right, thought Scott.
The time difference works in your favor in that direction. "You know," said Scott, "with what I've found out here, today alone, maybe.
Jeeeeeesus," Scott said cringing in indecision. "Hey!
Get your ass back here, boy.
Tyrone's friendly authority was persuasive.
You know you don't have any choice." The guilt trip. "Yeah, yeah, yeah." Scott called his office and asked for Doug.
He got the voice mail instead, and debated about calling him at home.
Nah, He thought, I'll just leave a message.
This way I'll just get yelled at once. "Hi, Doug?
I'm headed to Washington tomorrow.
The story here is better than I thought and dovetails right into why I'm coming back early.
I expect to be in D.C. until next Tuesday, maybe Wednesday.
I'll call when I have a place.
Oh, yeah, I learned a limerick here you might like.
The Spook says the kids around here say it all the time.
Mary had a little lamb, its fleece was white as snow. And everywhere that Mary went, the lamb was sure to go.
It followed her to school one day and a big black dog fucked it.' That's Amsterdam.
Scott arrived at the NSOB near the capitol, just before lunchtime.
His press identification got him instant access to the hearing room and into the privileged locations where the media congregated.
Scott ran into a couple of fellow reporters who told him he was lucky to show up late.
About 400 could be accommodated in the huge light wood paneled room on both the main floor and in the balcony that wrapped around half of the room.
The starkness of the room was emphasized by the glare of arc and fluorescent lighting. Scott found an empty seat on a wooden bench directly behind the tables from which the witnesses would speak to the raised wooden dais.
He noticed that the attendance was extraordinarily low; by both the public and the press.
Probably due to the total lack of exposure. As the session broke for lunch, Scott asked why the TV cameras? He thought this hearing was a deep dark secret.
A couple of fellow journalists agreed, and the only reason they had found out about the Rickfield hearings was because the CNN producer called them asking if they knew anything about them.
Apparently, Scott was told, CNN received an anonymous call, urging them to be part of a blockbuster announcement.
When CNN called Rickfield's office, his staffers told CNN that there was no big deal, and that they shouldn't waste their time.
In the news business, that kind of statement from a Congressional power broker is a sure sign that it is worth being there.
So CNN assigned a novice producer and a small crew to the first day of the hear- ings.
She was a 44 year old grandmother of two from New England who had never considered entering politics.
Nancy Deere was the consummate wife, supporter and stalwart of her husband Morgan Deere, an up and coming national politician who had the unique mixture of honesty, appeal and potential.
She had spent full time on the campaign trail with Morgan as he attempted to make the transition from state politics to Washington.
Morgan Deere was heavily favored to win after the three term incumbent was named a co- conspirator in the rigging of a Defense contract.
Despite the pending indictments, the race continued with constant pleadings by the incumbent that the trumped up charges would shortly be dismissed.
In the first week after the Grand Jury was convened, the voter polls indicated that Deere led with a 70% support factor. Then came the accident.
On his way home from a fund raising dinner, Morgan Deere's limousine was run off an icy winter road by a drunk driver.
No one seemed to care that Nancy Deere had no experience in politics; they just liked her. What remained of the campaign was run on her part with impeccable style.
Unlike her opponent who spent vast sums to besmirch her on television, Nancy's campaign was largely waged on news and national talk shows.
Her husband was popular, as was she, and the general interest in her as a woman outweighed the interest in her politics.
Others found her to be a genuine pain in the butt.
Not due to her naivete, far from that, she adeptly acclimated to the culture and the system.
Rather, she was a woman and she broke the rules.
She said what she felt; she echoed the sentiments of her constituency which were largely unpopular politically.
Nancy Deere didn't care what official Washington thought; her state was behind her with an almost unanimous approval and it was her sworn duty to represent them honestly and without compromise.
She had nothing to lose by being herself.
After more than a year in Washington, she learned how the massive Washington machinery functioned and why it crawled with a hurry up and wait engine. In Rickfield's absence, at 1:40 P.M., Senator Nancy Deere called the session to order.
Her administrative demeanor gave no one pause to question her authority.
Even the other sole Congres- sional representative on the sub-committee fell into step. While Senator Stanley Paglusi technically had seniority, he sat on the committee at Rickfield's request and held no specific interest in the subject matter they were investigating.
He accepted the seat to mollify Rickfield and to add to his own political resume. "Come to order, please," she announced over the ample sound system.
The voluminous hearing room reacted promptly to the authoritative command that issued forth from the petite auburn haired Nancy Deere who would have been just as comfortable auc- tioning donated goods at her church.
She noticed that unlike the morning session, the afternoon session was packed.
The press pool was nearly full and several people were forced to stand.
What had changed, she asked herself. After the procedural formalities were completed, she again thanked those who had spoken to the committee in the morning, and then promised an equally informative afternoon.
Nancy, as she liked to be called on all but the most formal of occasions intro- duced the committee's first afternoon witness. "Our next speaker is Ted Hammacher, a recognized expert on the subject of computer and information security.
During 17 years with the Government, Mr. Hammacher worked with the Defense Inves- tigatory Agency and the National Security Agency as a DoD liai- son.
He is currently a security consultant to industry and the government and is the author of hundreds of articles on the subject.
The Senator listened intently to the response.
Yes, I am aware of that, but it doesn't change the fact that I'm calling it quits.
I cannot, I will not, continue this charade.
He listened quietly for several minutes before interjecting. "Listen, General, we've both made enough money to keep us in style for the rest of our lives, and I will not jeopardize that for anything.
I don't know about you, but I do not relish the idea of doing ten to twenty regard- less of how much of a country club the prison is.
It is still a prison.
He listened further. "That's it, I've had it!
Don't make me use that file to impli- cate you, the guys over at State and our Import . . .hey!
Rick- field turned to Ken Boyers.
Who started the afternoon session?" He pointed at the TV. "It looks like Senator Deere," Ken said. "Deere?
Where does that goddamned bitch get off . . ?
He remem- bered the phone.
I have to go, I've got a suffragette usurping a little power, and I have to put her back in her place. You understand.
But, on that other matter, I'm out.
Do what you want, but keep me the fuck out of it.
Rick- field hung up abruptly and stared at the broadcast.
Some house- broken homemaker is not going to make me look bad.
Goddamn it, Ken," Rickfield said as he stood up quickly.
Let's get back out there." "Thank you, Senator Deere, and committee members.
I am honored to have a chance to speak to you here today.
As a preface to my remarks, I think that a brief history of security and privacy from a government perspective may be in order.
One of the reasons we are here today is due to a succession of events that since the introduction of the computer have shaped an ad hoc anarchism, a laissez-faire attitude toward privacy and security.
It appeared that this morning our speakers assumed we were more knowledgeable that we are.
Any clarifications will be most welcome.
He glanced down at the well organized folder and turned a page. "Concerns of privacy can be traced back thousands of years with perhaps the Egyptian pyramids as the first classic example of a brute force approach towards privacy.
The first recorded at- tempts at disguising the contents of a written message were in Roman times when Julius Caesar encoded messages to his generals in the field.
The Romans used a simple substitution cipher where one letter in the alphabet is used in place of another.
He missed Senator Rickfield and his aid reappear on the dais.
Rickfield's eyes penetrated Nancy Deere who imperceptibly acknowledged his return.
You should not over- step your bounds," Rickfield leaned over and said to her.
You have five years to go.
Stunts like this will not make your time any easier." "Senator," she said to Rickfield as Hammacher spoke.
You are obviously not familiar with the procedures of Senate panel proto- col. I was merely trying to assist the progress of the hearings in your absence, I assure you.
Her coolness infuriated Rick- field. "Well, then, thank you," he sneered.
But, now, I am back.
I will appreciate no further procedural interference.
He sat up brusquely indicating that his was the last word on the subject. Unaware of the political sidebar in progress, Hammacher contin- ued. "Ciphers were evolved over the centuries until they reached a temporary plateau during World War II.
With the assistance of the NSA who is responsible for cryptography, the Data Encryption Standard was approved in November of 1976.
Banks move upwards of a trillion dollars daily, and in an effort to insure that all monies are moved accurately and to their intended desti- nations, the technique of Message Authentication Coding was introduced.
For still unknown reasons it was decided that en- crypting the contents of the messages, or transfers, was unneces- sary.
Thus, financial transactions are still carried out with no protection from eavesdropping." "Excuse me, Mr. Hammacher, I want to understand this," interrupt- ed Senator Deere.
Are you saying that, since 1976, we have had the ability to camouflage the nation's financial networks, yet as of today, they are still unprotected?
Rickfield looked over at Nancy in disgust but the single camera missed it. "Yes, ma'am, that's exactly the case," replied Hammacher. "What does that mean to us?
Or the average citi- zen?" "In my opinion it borders on insanity.
It means that for the price of a bit of electronic equipment, anyone can tap into the details of the financial dealings of banks, the government and every citizen in this country." Senator Deere visibly gulped.
Thank you, please continue." "In 1984, President Reagan signed National Security Decision Directive 145.
NSDD-145 established that defense contractors and other organizations that handle sensitive or classified informa- tion must adhere to certain security and privacy guidelines.
A number of advisory groups were established, and to a minimal extent, the recommendations have been implemented, but I must emphasize, to a minimal extent." "Can you be a little more specific, Mr. Hammacher?
Asked Senator Deere. "No ma'am, I can't.
A great deal of these efforts are classified and by divulging who is not currently in compliance would be a security violation in itself.
It would be fair to say, though, that the majority of those organizations targeted for additional security measures fall far short of the government's intentions and desires.
I am sorry I cannot be more specific." "I understand completely.
Once again," Nancy said to Hammacher, "I am sorry to interrupt." "Not at all, Senator.
Hammacher sipped from his water glass. "As you can see, the interest in security was primarily from the government, and more specifically the defense community.
In 1981, the Department of Defense chartered the DoD Computer Secu- rity Center which has since become the National Computer Security Center operating under the auspices of the National Security Agency.
In 1983 they published a series of guidelines to be used in the creation or evaluation of computer security.
Officially titled the Trusted Computer Security Evaluation Criteria, it is popularly known as the Orange Book.
Worse yet, it was not until 1987 that any proposed criteria were developed for networked computers.
So, as the world tied itself together with millions of computers and net- works, the Government was not concerned enough to address the issue.
Even today, there are no secure network criteria that are universally accepted." "Mr. Hammacher.
Senator Rickfield spoke up for the first time. "You appear to have a most demeaning tone with respect to the United States Government's ability to manage itself.
Common courtesy demanded that he be per- mitted to finish his statement, even if his conclusions were unpopular or erroneous. Hammacher did not seem fazed.
Sir, I am recounting the facts, and only the facts.
My personal opinions would only be further damning, so I agree, that I will refrain.
He turned a page in his notebook and continued. "Several laws were passed, most notably Public Law 100-235, the Computer Security Act of 1987.
This weak law called for enhanced cooperation between the NSA and NIST in the administration of security for the sensitive but unclassified world of the Govern- ment and the private sector.
Interestingly enough, in mid 1990 it was announced, that after a protracted battle between the two security agencies, the NCSC would shut down and merge its efforts with its giant super secret parent, the NSA.
President Bush signed the Directive effectively replacing Reagan's NSDD-145. Because the budgeting and appropriations for both NSA and the former NCSC are classified, there is no way to accurately gauge the effectiveness of this move.
In short, the United States has done little or nothing to forge an appropriate defense against computer crime, despite the political gerrymandering and agency shuffling over the last decade.
That concludes my opening re- marks.
Hammacher sat back in his chair and finished the water. He turned to his lawyer and whispered something Scott couldn't hear. "Ah, Mr. Hammacher, before you continue, I would like ask a few questions.
Senator Nancy Deere was being her usual gracious self. "Not at all, Senator." "You said earlier that the NSA endorsed a cryptographic system that they themselves could crack.
Senator Nancy Deere's ability to grasp an issue at the roots was uncanny. "I'd be pleased to.
I am not qualified to comment either way, but the reduction of the key length, and the functional feedback mecha- nisms were less stringent than the original.
If this is true, then we have to ask ourselves, why?
Why would the NSA want a weaker system?" A number of heads in the hearing room nodded in agreement with the question; others merely acknowledged that it was NSA bashing time again. Hammacher continued.
There is one theory that suggests that the NSA, as the largest eavesdropping operation in the world wanted to make sure that they could still listen in on messages once they have been encrypted.
The NSA has neither confirmed or denied these reports.
If that is true, then we must ask our- selves, if DES is so weak, why does the NSA have the ultimate say on export control.
For example, in 1985, the Department of Treasury wanted to extend the validation of DES for use throughout the Treasury, the Federal Reserve System and member banks.
The NSA put a lot of political muscle behind an effort to have DES deaffirmed and replaced with newer encryption algorithms.
Treasury argued that they had already adapted DES, their constituents had spent millions on DES equip- ment for EFT and it would be entirely too cumbersome and expen- sive to make a change now.
Besides, they asked, what's wrong with DES?
They never got an answer to that question, and thus they won the battle and DES is still the approved encryption methodology for banks.
It was never established whether DES was too strong or too weak for NSA's taste. "Later, in 1987, the NSA received an application for export of a DES based device that employed a technique called infinite en- cryption.
In response to the frenzy over the strength or weakness of DES, one company took DES and folded it over and over on itself using multiple keys.
The NSA had an internal hemorrhage. They forbade this product from being exported from the United States in any form whatsoever.
It was an extraordinary move on their part, and one that had built-in contradictions.
If DES is weak, then why not export it?
If it's too strong, why argue with Treasury?
This quite clearly suggests that the gov- ernment has been listening in on supposedly secret and private communications. "Then we have to look at another event that strongly suggests that NSA has something to hide." "Mr. Hammacher!
Mr. Hammacher, do you think you are capable of that?" Hammacher seethed.
Senator, I mean no disrespect to you or this committee.
However, I was asked to testify, and at my own ex- pense I am providing as accurate information as possible.
If you happen to find anything I say not to your liking, I do apologize, but my only alternative is not to testify at all." "We accept your withdrawal, Mr. Hammacher, thank you for your time.
A hushed silence covered the hearing room.
This was not the time to get into it with Rickfield, Nancy thought.
He has sufficiently embarrassed himself and the media will take care of the rest.
Why the hell is he acting this way?
He is known as a hard ass, a real case, but his public image was unblemished.
Had the job passed him by? A stunned and incensed Hammacher gathered his belongings as his lawyer placated him.
Scott overheard bits and pieces as they both agreed that Rickfield was a flaming asshole.
A couple of reporters hurriedly followed them out of the hearing room for a one on one interview. "Is Dr. Sternman ready?
Rickfield asked. A bustle of activity and a man spoke to the dais without the assistance of a microphone.
Yessir, I am." Sternman was definitely the academic type, Scott noted.
A crum- pled ill fitting brown suit covering a small hunched body that was no more than 45 years old.
He held an old scratched brief- case and an armful of folders and envelopes.
Scott was reminded of the studious high school student that jocks enjoy tripping with their feet.
Dr. Sternman busied himself to straighten the papers that fell onto the desk and his performance received a brief titter from the crowd. "Ah, yes, Mr. Chairman," Sternman said.
Rick- field looked as bored as ever. "Thank you, Dr. Sternman.
You are, I understand, a computer virus expert?
My doctoral thesis was on the subject and I have spent several years researching computer viruses, their proliferation and propagation.
Unintelligible mumbo jumbo. "I also understand that your comments will be brief as we have someone else yet to hear from today.
It was as much a command as a question. "Yessir, it will be brief." "Then, please, enlighten us, what is a virus expert and what do you do?
Rickfield hadn't read anything, so he looked at Boyers who also shrugged his shoulders. "Yes, Dr. Sternman," Nancy Deere said, "and we thank you for your consideration.
Rickfield glared at her as she politely upstaged him yet again.
May I ask, though, that you provide a brief description of a computer virus for the benefit of those who have not read your presentation?
She stuck it to Rickfield again. "I'd be happy to, madam Chairwoman," he said nonchalantly.
Rick- field's neck turned red at the inadvertent sudden rise in Senator Deere's stature.
For the next several minutes Sternman solemnly described what a virus was, how it worked and a history of their attacks.
Rickfield held seniority, but Nancy Deere took charge due to her preparation.
A benign subset of comput- er software that had no anticipated applications.
We spent months working with viruses, self cloning software and built mathematical models of their behavior which fit quite neatly in the domain of conventional set theory.
Then an amazing discovery befell us.
We proved mathematically that there is absolutely no effective way to protect against computer viruses in software." Enough of the spectators had heard about viruses over the past few years to comprehend the purport of that one compelling state- ment.
Even Senator Rickfield joined Nancy and the others in their awe.
No way to combat viruses?
Dr. Sternman had dropped a bombshell on them. "Dr. Sternman," said Senator Deere, "could you repeat that? "Yes, yes," Sternman replied, knowing the impact of his state- ment.
A virus is a piece of software and software is designed to do specific tasks in a hardware environ- ment.
All software uses basically the same techniques to do its job.
Without all of the technicalities, if one piece of software can do something, another piece of software can un-do it.
It's kind of a computer arms race. "I build a virus, and you build a program to protect against that one virus.
But then I make a small change in the virus to attack or bypass your software, and Poof!
Then you build a new piece of software to defend against both my first virus and my mutated virus and that works until I build yet another.
This process can go on forever, and frankly, it's just not worth the effort." "What is not worth the effort, Doctor?
You paint a most bleak picture." "I don't mean to at all, Senator.
Dr. Sternman smiled soothing- ly up at the committee and took off his round horn rim glasses. "I wasn't attempting to be melodramatic, however these are not opinions or guesses.
It is not worth the effort to fight computer viruses with software.
The virus builders will win because the Virus Busters are the ones playing catch-up." "Virus Busters?
Senator Rickfield mockingly said conspicuously raising his eyebrows.
His reaction elicited a wave of laughter from the hall. "Yessir," said Dr. Sternman to Rickfield.
Virus Busters. That's a term to describe programmers who fight viruses.
They mistakenly believe they can fight viruses with defensive software and some of them sell some incredibly poor programs.
So, the only way to find a virus is to already know what it looks like, and go out looking for it.
There are several major problems with this approach.
First of all, the virus has already struck and done some damage.
Two it has already infected other software and will continue to spread.
So you see, the Virus Busters are really wasting their time, and worst of all they are deceiving the public.
Dr. Sternman com- pleted what he had to say with surprising force. "Doctor Sternman," Senator Rickfield said with disdain, "all of your theories are well and good, and perhaps they work in the laboratory.
But isn't it true, sir, that computer viruses are an overblown issue that the media has sensationalized and that they are nothing more than a minor inconvenience?" "Not really, Senator.
The statistics don't support that conclu- sion," Dr. Sternman said with conviction.
That is one of the worst myths.
Nancy Deere smiled to herself as the dorky college professor handed it right to a United States Senator.
The incidence of computer viruses has been on a logarithmic increase for the past several years.
If a human disease infected at the same rate, we would declare a medical state of emergency." "Doctor," implored Rickfield.
Aren't you exaggerating . . .?" "No Senator, here are the facts.
There are currently over 5000 known computer viruses and strains that have been positively identified.
The good Doctor was a skilled debater, and Rickfield was being sucked in by his attack on the witness.
The figure three thousand impressed everyone.
That is the equivalent of having one member of every family in the country being sick at all times.
That is an epidemic, and one that will not go away.
No sir, it will not." Sternman's voice rose.
It will not go away.
It will only get worse." "That is a most apoplectic prophesy, Doctor.
I think that many of us would have trouble believing the doom and gloom you por- tend.
Rickfield was sloughing off the Doctor, but Sternman was here to tell a story, and he would finish. "There is more, Senator.
Recent reports show that over 75% of the computers in the People's Republic of China are infected with deadly and destructive software.
The look on your face asks the question.
Because, almost every piece of software in that country is bootleg, illegal copies of popular programs. That invites viruses.
Since vast quantities of computers come from the Pacific Rim, many with prepackaged software, new comput- er equipment is a source of computer viruses that was once con- sidered safe.
A year later as everyone remembers, NASA computers were invaded forcing officials to abort a flight.
The attacks go on, and they inflict greater damage than is generally thought. "Again, these are our best estimates, that over 90% of all viral infections go unreported." "Doctor, 90%?
Nancy asked. "Definitely, yes, but imagine the price of speaking out.
I have talked to hundreds of companies, major corporations, that are absolutely terrified of anyone knowing that their computers have been infected.
Or they have been the target of any computer crime for that matter.
They feel that the public, their custom- ers, maybe even their stockholders, might lose faith in the company's ability to protect itself.
Most viral attacks go unreported. "It's akin to computer rape.
Dr. Sternman had a way with words to keep his audience attentive.
Years of lecturing to sleeping freshman had taught him a few tricks.
It sounds to me like there are thousands of new diseases out there, and every one needs to be isolated, diagnosed and then cured.
That appears to me to a formidable challenge." "I could not have put it better, Senator.
Sternman was genuinely complimenting Nancy.
The similarities to the medical field cannot go unnoticed if we are to deal with the problem rationally and effectively.
And like a disease, we need to predict the effects of the infection.
What we have found in that area is as frightening. "The first generation of viruses were simple in their approach. The designers correctly assumed that no one was looking for them, and they could enter systems without any deterrence.
They erase files, scramble data, re-format hard drives . . .make the comput- er data useless. "Then the second generation of viruses came along with the nom-de-guerre stealth.
These viruses hid themselves more elabo- rately to avoid detection and had a built in self-preservation instinct.
If the virus thinks it's being probed, it self de- structs or hides itself even further. "In addition, second generation viruses learned how to become targeted.
Some viruses have been designed to only attack a competitor's product and nothing else." "Is that possible?
Asked Nancy Deere. "It's been done many times.
Some software bugs in popular soft- ware are the result of viral infections, others may be genuine bugs.
Imagine a virus who sole purpose is to attack Lotus 123 spreadsheets.
The virus is designed to create computational errors in the program's spreadsheets.
The user then thinks that Lotus is to blame and so he buys another product.
Yes, ma'am, it is possible, and occurs every day of the week.
Keeping up with it is the trick. "Other viruses attack on Friday the 13th. only, some attack only at a specified time . . .the damage to be done is only limited by imagination of the programmers.
Third generation viruses were even more sophisticated.
They were designed to do damage not only to the data, but to the computer hardware itself.
Some were designed to overload communications ports with tight logical loops.
Others were designed to destroy the hard disk by directly overdriving the disk or would cause amonitor to self-destruct. There is no limit to the possibilities. "You sound as though you hold their skills in high regard, Doc- tor.
Many of them have extraordinary skills, that are unfortunately misguided.
They are a new breed of bored criminal." "You mentioned earlier Doctor, that there were over 5000 known viruses.
He prepared for the next speaker, but Senator Deere leaned over and asked him for a five minute conclave.
He was openly reluctant, but as she raised her voice, he conceded.
In a private office off to the side, Nancy Deere came unglued. "What kind of stunt are you pulling out there, Senator?
She demanded as she paced the room.
I thought this was a hearing, not a lynching." Rickfield slouched in a plush leather chair and appeared uncon- cerned.
I am indeed sorry," he said with the pronounced drawl of a Southern country gentleman, "that the young Senatoress finds cross examination unpleasant.
Perhaps if we treated this like a neighborhood gossip session, it might be easier." "Now one damned minute," she yelled while pointing a finger right at Rickfield.
That was not cross-examination; it was harassment and I for one am embarrassed for you.
And two, do not, I repeat, do not, ever patronize me.
I am not one of your cheap call girls.
She could not have knocked Rickfield over any harder with a sledgehammer. "You bitch!
Rickfield rose to confront her standing nine inches taller.
You have no idea what's at stake. None.
At this rate I can assure you, you will never have an ear in Washington.
You will be deaf, dumb and blind in this town.
I have been on this Hill for thirty years and paid my dues and I will not have a middle aged June Cleaver undermine a lifetime of work just because she smells her first cause." Undaunted, Nancy stood her ground.
I don't know what you're up to Senator, but I do know that you're sand bagging these hear- ings.
I've raised four kids and half a neighborhood, plus my husband talked in his sleep.
I learned a lot about politicians, and I know sand bagging when I see it.
Now, if you got stuck with these hearings and think they're a crock, that's fine.
I hear it happens to everyone.
But, I see them as important and I don't want you to interfere." "You are in no position to ask for anything." "I'm not asking.
Where did she get the gumption, she asked herself.
Then it occurred to her;<MI> I'm not a politician, I want to see things get fixed.<D> "I will take issue with you, take you on publicly, if necessary.
I was Presi- dent of the PTA for 8 years.
I am fluent in dealing with bitches of every size and shape.
Ken Boyers was engrossed in conversation and had to be prodded to respond.
Ken," Rick- field whispered while covering the microphone with his hand.
He leaned over and behind his seat.
Is that right, this True Blue guy flew in for the day and he's out tonight?" Ken nodded.
Yes, it was the only way we could get him." "What makes him so bloody important?
Rickfield acted edgy. "He's one of the software industry's leading spokesman.
He owns dGraph," Ken said, making it sound like he was in on a private joke. "So fucking what?
Rickfield demanded. Keeping it to a whisper was hard. "Industry perspective.
We need to hear from all possible view- points in order to . . .
Ken explained. "Oh, all right.
If this goes past five, have someone call my wife and tell her I'll see her tomorrow.
Rickfield sat back and smiled a politician-hiding-something smile. "Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, a little scheduling confusion. I guess there's a first time for anything.
Rickfield's chuckle told those-in-the-know that it was time to laugh now.
If Rick- field saw someone not laughing at one of his arthritic jokes, he would remember.
Might cost a future favor, so it was simpler to laugh.
The mild titter throughout the hall that followed gave Rickfield the few seconds he needed to organize himself. "Yes, yes.
Rickfield scanned the other committee members and aides flipping pages frantically to find the proper place. "We now have the pleasure of hearing from Pierre, now correct me if I say this wrong, Trewww-Blow?
Rickfield looked up over his glasses to see Pierre seated at the hearing table.
Scott had been able to keep his privileged location for the busier afternoon session by occupying several seats with his bags and coat.
He figured correctly that he would be able to keep at least one as the room filled with more people than had been there for the morning session. "Troubleaux, yes Senator.
Pierre had turned on 110% charm.
Cameras from the now busy press pool in front of the hearing tables strobe-lit the room until every photographer had his first quota of shots.
Troubleaux was still the computer industry's Golden Boy; he could do no wrong.
Watching the reac- tion to Pierre's mere presence, Senator Rickfield instantly realized that True Blue here was a public relations pro, and could be hard to control.
What was he gonna say anyway?
Indus- try perspective my ass.
This hearing was as good as over before it started until the television people showed up, Rickfield thought to himself with disgust. "Mr. Trew-Blow flew in extra special for this today," Rickfield orated.
And I'm sure we are all anxious to hear what he has to say.
His Southern twang rang of boredom.
Scott, who was sit- ting not 6 feet from where Pierre and the others testified, overheard Troubleaux's attorney whisper, "sarcastic bastard." Rickfield continued.
He is here to give us an overview of the problems that software manufacturers face.
So, unless anyone has any comments before Mr. Trew-Blow, I will ask him to read his opening statement." "I do, Mr. Chairman," Senator Nancy Deere said.
She said it with enough oomph to come across more dynamic on the sound system than did Rickfield.
He had had enough of her today.
One thing after anoth- er, and all he wanted was to get through the hearings as fast as possible, make a "Take No Action" recommendation to the Committee and retire after election day.
Mrs. Deere was making that goal increasingly difficult to reach. "I recognize the Junior Senator.
He said the word 'Junior' as if it was scrawled on a men's room wall.
His point was lost on nobody, and privately, most would agree that it was a tasteless tactic. "Thank you, Mr. Chairman," Senator Nancy Deere said poising herself.
I, too, feel indeed grateful, and honored, to have Mr. Troubleaux here today.
His accomplishments over the last few years, legendary in some circles I understand, have been in no way inconsequential to the way that America does business.
By no means do I wish to embarrass Mr. Troubleaux, and I do hope he will forgive me.
Pierre gave Nancy a forgiving smile when she glanced at him.
However, I do feel it incumbent upon this committee to enter into the record the significant contributions he has made to the computer industry.
If there are no objec- tions, I have prepared a short biography.
It sounded more to Scott that she was reading past achievements before she handed out a Grammy. "Entrepreneur of the Year, 1984, 1985, 1986, 1988, Cupertino Chamber of Commerce.
Entrepreneur Year of the Year, California State Trade Association, 1987.
Technical Achievement of the Year, IEEE, 1988 . . ." Senator Deere read on about Pierre the Magnificent and the house that dGraph built.
With that number of awards and credentials, I dare say I expect to be inundated with insights.
Thank you Mr. Chairman." "And, we thank you," Rickfield barbed, "for that introduction. Now, if there are no further interruptions," he glared at Nancy, "Mr. Trew-Blow, would you care to read your prepared statement. "No, Senator," Pierre came back.
A hush descended over the entire room.
He paused long enough to increase the tension in the room to the breaking point.
I never use prepared notes.
I prefer to speak casually and honestly.
Pierre exaggerated his French accent for effect.
After years of public appearances, he knew how to work and win a crowd.
The cameras again flashed as Pierre had just won the first round of verbal gymnastics. "It is a bit unusual, not to have an advanced copy of your state- ments, and then . . .
Rickfield stopped himself in mid sentence. "Never mind, I'm sorry.
Please, Mr. Trew-Blow, proceed." "Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Pierre scanned the room to see how much of it he commanded.
How many people were actually listening to what he was going to say, or were they there for the experi- ence and another line item on a resume?
A live audience, and a TV audience as an extra added bonus.
But he had planned it that way. He never told anyone that he was the one who called the TV sta- tions to tell them that there would be a significant news devel- opment at the Rickfield hearings.
If he concentrated, Pierre could speak like a native American with a Midwest twang.
He gave CNN, NBC, CBS and ABC down home pitches on some of the dirt that might come out.
They sent a junior producer. So what, everyone has to start somewhere.
And this might be his big break. "Mr. Chairman, committee members," his eyes scanned the dais as he spoke.
Honored guests," he looked around the hall to insure as many people present felt as important as possible, "and inter- ested observers, I thank you for the opportunity to address you here today.
In seconds he owned the room.
Pierre was a capti- vating orator.
I must plead guilty to the overly kind remarks by Senator Deere, thank you very much.
But, I am not feigning humility when I must lavish similar praises upon the many dedi- cated friends at dGraph, whom have made our successes possible." Mutual admiration society, thought Scott.
What a pile of D.C. horseshit, but this Pierre was playing the game better than the congressional denizens.
I leave the bits and bytes to the wizards who can translate dreams into a reality.
Software designers are the alchemists who can in fact turn silicon into gold.
They skillfully navigate the development of thoughts from the amorphous to the tangible.
Veritable art- ists, who like the painter, work from tabula rasa, a clean slate, and have a picture in mind.
To a certain extent we have lost the ability to make a good guess.
Pierre paused. "Think about a watch, with a second hand.
When asked for the time, a response might be 'about three-thirty', or 'it's a quarter after ', or 'it's almost ten.
We approximate the time. "With a digital watch, one's response will be more accurate; 'one- twenty-three," or '4 minutes before twelve,' or 'it's nine thirty-three.
We don't have to guess anymore.
When we lose the ability to make an educated guess, take a stab at, shoot from the hip, we cease using a valuable creative tool.
Imagination! "By depending upon them so completely, we fall hostage to the machines of our creation; we maintain a constant reliance upon their accuracy and infallibility.
I am aware of the admitted parallel to many science fiction stories where the scientists' machines take over the world.
Those tales are, thankfully, the products of vivid imaginations.
The technology does not yet exist to worry about a renegade computer.
HAL-9000 series com- puters are still far in the future.
As long as we, as humans, tell the computer to open the pod bay doors, the pod bay doors will open.
Pierre elicited a respectful giggle from the stand- ing room only crowd, many of whom came solely to hear him speak. Rickfield doodled. "Yet, there is another viewpoint.
It is few people, indeed, who can honestly claim to doubt the answer displayed on their calcu- lator.
They have been with us for over 20 years and we instinc- tively trust in their reliability.
We assume the computing machine to be flawless.
In many ways, theoretically it is per- fect.
But when man gets involved he fouls it up.
Our fingers are too big for the digital key pad on our wristwatch-calculator- timer-TV.
Since we can't approximate the answer, we have lost that skill, we can't guess, it becomes nearly impossible to know if we're getting the right answer. "We trust our computers.
We believe it when our spreadsheet tells us that we will experience 50% annual growth for five years.
We believe the automatic bank teller that tells us we are overdrawn.
We trust the computer at the supermarket.
The crowd ate him up.
He was weaving a web, drawing a picture, and only the artist knew what the climax would be. "Excuse me.
We as a people believe a computer printout is the closest thing to God on earth.
Di- vinely accurate, piously error-free.
Computerized bank state- ments, credit card reports, phone bills, our life is stored away in computer memories, and we trust that the information residing there is accurate.
Can you call back?'" Again the audience emotionally related to what Pierre was saying.
For me there is an initial embarrassment of having my hand slapped by the computer terminal via the clerk. Then, I react strongly.
I will raise my voice and say that I made a reservation, two days ago.
Then the clerk will say something like, 'It's not in the computer'.
How do you react to that statement? "Suddenly your integrity is being questioned by an agglomeration of wire and silicon.
Your veracity comes into immediate doubt. The clerk might think that you never even made a reservation. You become a liar because the computer disagrees with you.
And to argue about it is an exercise in futility.
The computer has no ability to make a judgment about you, or me.
It is a case of being totally black or white. And for the human of the species, that value system is unfathoma- ble, paradoxical.
Nothing is black and white.
Yes, the computer is black and white.
Herein again, the mind prefers the analog, the continuous, rather than the digitally discreet. "In these cases, the role is reversed, we blame the computer for making errors.
We tend to be verbally graphic in the comments we make about computers when they don't appear to work the way we expect them to.
Pierre gestured with his arms to emphasize his point.
The crescendo had begun. "The sociological implications are incredible.
As a people we have an inherent distrust of computers; they become an easy scapegoat for modern irritations.
However, the balancing side of the scale is an implicit trust in their abilities.
Pierre couldn't hear any of the comments, but he was sure he was starting a stink. "It is our faith in computers that lets us continue.
The reli- gious parallels are obvious.
The evangelical computer is also the subject of fiction, but trust and faith are inextricably meshed into flavors and degrees.
A brief sampling of common everyday items and events that are dependent on computers might prove enlightening. "Without computers, many of lifes' simple pleasures and conven- iences would disappear.
A nervous giggle met Pierre's social slam. "Call holding.
The staple diet of teenage America is the bread and butter of the music industry.
Let's not forget the Post Office and other shippers.
Without computers Federal Express would be no better than the Honest-We'll-Be-Here-Tomorrow Cargo Company." "Oh, and yes," Pierre said dramatically.
Let's get rid of the microwave ovens, the VCR's and video cameras.
I think I've made my point." "I wish you would, Mr. Trew-Blow," Senator Rickfield caustically interjected.
Rickfield was making no points taking on Pierre Troubleaux.
He was too popular. "Thank you, Senator, I am glad you asked.
I was just getting there.
Pierre's sugary treatment was an appropriate slap in Rickfield's face. "Please continue.
The Senator had difficulty saying the word 'please'. "Yes sir.
So, the prognostications made over a decade ago by the likes of Steve Jobs, that computers would alter the way we play, work and think have been completely fulfilled.
Now, if we look at those years, we see a multi-billion dollar industry that has made extraordinary promises to the world of business.
Make your opera- tion efficient!
Stay ahead of the competition!
And we listened and we bought. "With a projected life cycle of between only three and five years, technology progresses that fast, once computerized, forev- er computerized.
To keep up with the competitive Jones', main- taining technical advantages requires upgrading to subsequent generations of computers.
The computer salespeople told us to run our businesses on computers, send out Social Security checks by computer, replace typewriters with word processors and bank at home.
Yet, somewhere in the heady days of phenomenal growth during the early 1980's, someone forgot.
Someone, or more than likely most of Silicon Valley forgot, that people were putting their trust in these machines and we gave them no reason to.
I include myself and my firm among the guilty. "Very simply, we have built a culture, an economic base, the largest GNP in the world on a system of inter-connected comput- ers.
We have placed the wealths of our nations, the backbone of the fabric of our way of life, we have placed our trust in com- puters that do not warrant that trust.
It is incomprehensible to me that privacy, one of the founding principles of this nation, has been ignored during the information revolution.
The massive data bases that contain vast amounts of personal data on us all have been amply shown to be not worthy of trust.
All it takes is a home computer and elbow grease and you, or I, or he," Pierre pointed at various people seated around the room, "can have a field day and change anybody's life history.
What happens if the computer disagrees with you then? "It staggers the imagination that we have not attempted any coherent strategy to protect the lifeblood of our society.
That, ladies and gentlemen is a crime.
We spend $3 trillion on weapons in one decade, yet we do not have the foresight to protect our computers?
It is a crime of indifference by business leaders.
A crime against common sense by Congress who passes laws and then refuses to fund their enactment.
Pierre drained the water from his glass as the tension in the hearing room thickened. "We live the paradox of simultaneously distrusting computers and being required to trust them and live with them.
We are all criminals in this disgrace.
Maybe dGraph more than most.
Permit me to explain my involvement.
The electricity in the room crackled and the novice CNN producer instructed the cameraman to get it right. "Troubleaux!
A man's gruff accented voice elongated the sylla- bles as he shouted from the balcony in the rear.
A thousands eyes jerked to the source of the sound up above.
Troubleaux himself turned in his seat to see a middle aged dark man, wearing a turban, pointing a handgun in his direction.
Scott saw the weapon and wondered which politician was the target.
Who was too pro-Israel this week?
He immediately thought of Rickfield.
No, he didn't have a commitment either way.
He only rode the wave of popular sentiment. Pierre too, wondered who was the target of a madman's suicide attack.
The would-be victim. As the first report from the handgun echoed through the cavernous chamber Scott was mid-leap at Pierre.
Hell of a way to grab an exclusive, he thought.
He fell into Pierre as the second shot exploded.
Scott painfully caught the edge of the chair with his shoulder while pushing Pierre over sideways.
They crumpled into a heap on the floor when the third shot fired. Scott glanced up at the turbanned man vehemently mouthing words to an invisible entity skyward.
The din from the panic in the room made it impossible to hear.
Still brandishing the pistol, the assailant began to take aim again, at Scott and Pierre. Scott attempted to wiggle free from the tangle of Pierre's limbs and the chairs around them.
He struggled to extricate himself but found it impossible. A fourth shot discharged.
The policeman grabbed onto a bench which kept him from plummeting twenty feet below.
His target was hurtled over the edge and landed prone on two wooden chairs which collapsed under the force.
The shooting stopped. Scott groaned from discomfort and pain as he slowly began to pull away from Pierre.
Then he noticed the blood.
A lot of blood. He looked down at himself to see that his white pullover shirt, the one with Mickey Mouse instead of an alligator over the breast pocket, was wet with red.
His left hand had been on the floor, in a pool of blood that was oozing out of the back of Pierre's head.
Scott tried to consciously control his physical revulsion to the body beneath him and the overwhelming urge to regurgitate. Then Pierre's body moved.
His chest heaved heavily and Scott pulled himself away completely.
Pierre had been hit with at least two bullets, one exiting from the front of his chest and one stripping away a piece of skull exposing the brain.
He lifted himself up to see over the tables.
The mad shuffle to the exits continued. No one seemed to pay attention. "Hey!
Is there a doctor in the house?" Scott looked down at Pierre and touched the veins in his neck. They were pulsing, but not with all of life's vigor.
Hey," Scott said quietly, "you're gonna be all right.
We got a doctor coming.
Scott lied, but 40 years of movies and television had preprogrammed the sentiments. "Drtppheeough . . .
Scott heard Pierre gurgle. "What?
Scott leaned his ear down closer to Pierre's mouth. "DGOEROUGH." "Take it easy," Scott said to comfort the badly injured Pierre Troubleaux. "Nooo . . .
Pierre's limp body made a futile attempt at move- ment.
Scott held him back. "Hey, Pierre . . .you don't mind if I call you Pierre?
Scott adapted a mock French accent. "Noo, DNGRAAAAPHJG . . ." "Good.
Why don't you just lay back and wait.
The doctor'll be here in a second . . ." "Sick . . .
Pierre managed to get out one word. "Sick?
Yeah, yeah, you're sick," Scott agreed sympathet- ically. "DGRAF, sick.
The effort caused Pierre to pant quickly. "Dgraf, sick?
Pierre's voice began to fade.
Don't use . . ." "What do you mean don't use it?
Sick?" Pierre's body was still. * * * * * The bullshit put out by the Government was beyond belief, thought Miles.
How could they sit there and claim that all was well?
It was common knowledge that computer security was dismal at best throughout both the civilian and military agencies.
With the years he spent at NSA he knew that security was a political compromise and not a fiscal or technical reality.
And these guys lied through their teeth.
Oh, well, he thought, that would all change soon. The report issued by the National Research Council in November of 1990 concurred with Miles' assessment.
Security in the govern- ment was a disaster, a laughable travesty if it weren't for the danger to national security.
The report castigated the results of decades of political in-fighting between agencies competing for survival and power. He and Perky spent the day watching the hearings at Miles' high rise apartment.
The two had been inseparable since.
She knew he was a computer and communica- tions wizard, but that was all.
In many ways it was scary, she told Miles.
He agreed, saying if were up to him, things would get a lot worse before they get any better.
As the second shot came across the TV, Perky sprang up and shouted, "No!
Tears dripped from the cor- ners of her eyes. "Miles!
They're shooting him . . ." "I don't know .
A third shot and then the image of Scott and Pierre crumbling.
Holy shit, it's an assassination!" "Miles, what's going on here?
Stephanie cried. "This is fucking nuts . . .he's killing him . . .
Miles stared at the screen and spoke in a dull monotone.
I can't believe this is happening, it's not part of the plan . . ." "Miles, Miles!
She screamed, desperately trying to get his attention.
What plan?" "Fucking Homosoto, that yellow skinned prick . . ." "Homosoto?
She stopped upon hearing the name. Miles leapt up from the couch and raced over to the corner of the room with his computers.
He pounced on the keyboard of the NipCom computer and told it to dial Homosoto's number in Japan. That son of a bitch better be there.
Answer, damn it. <<<<<<AUTOCRYPT CONVERSATION>>>>>> Homosoto!!!!! The delay seemed interminable as Miles waited for him to get on line.
Perky followed him over to the computer and watched as he made contact.
She knew that Miles and Homosoto spoke often over the computer, too often for Miles' taste.
Homosoto whined to Miles almost every day, about one thing or another, and Miles complained to her about how irritating his childish interference was.
But throughout it all, Perky had never been privy to their conversations.
She had stayed her distance, until this time. Miles had been in rages before; she had become unwillingly accus- tomed to his furious outbursts.
Generally they were unfocused eruptions; a sophomoric way of releasing pent up energy and frus- tration.
But this time, Miles' face clearly showed fear.
Steph- anie saw the dread.
What does Homosoto have to do with this?
She pleaded with him to include her.
The screen finally responded. MR. FOSTER.
AN UNEXPECTED PLEASURE. You imperial mother fucker. EXPLAINATION, PLEASE. You're a fucking murderer. I TAKE EXCEPTION TO THAT. Take exception to this, Jack!
What the hell did you kill him for? I ASSUME YOU HAVE BEEN WATCHING TELEVISION. Aren't we the Einstein of Sushi land. YOUR MANNERS. You killed him!
Why? Stephanie read the monitor and wept quietly as the conversation scrolled before her.
She placed her hands on Miles' shoulders in an effort to feel less alone. IT WAS A NECESSARY EVIL.
HE COULD NOT BE PERMITTED TO SPEAK. NOT YET. So you killed him? ONE OF MY PEOPLE GOT A LITTLE OVER ZEALOUS.
IT IS REGRETTABLE, BUT NECESSARY. It is not necessary to kill anyone.
Nowhere in the plan does it call for murder!
That was part of our deal. THE WINDS BLOW.
CONDITIONS CHANGE. The wind blows up your ass! THAT DOES NOT CHANGE THE FACT THAT HE WAS GOING TO TELL WHAT HE KNEW. What the hell does he know? DGRAPH.
THAT'S THE PROGRAM WE INFECTED. DGraph?
That's the most popular program in the world.
How did you infect it? I BOUGHT IT. You own dGraph?
I thought that Data Tech owned them. OSO OWNS DATA TECH.
VERY GOOD PLAN. And Troubleaux knows? OF COURSE.
HE HAD INCENTIVE. So you try to kill him? HE LOST HIS INCENTIVE.
YOUR WORDS. Yes, secrecy, but not murder.
I can't be part of that. BUT YOU ARE MR. FOSTER.
Son of a bitch." "What's going on?
Perky followed him back to the couch in front of the TV and sat close with her arm around him.
She was still crying softly. "It's gonna start.
He blankly stared forward. "What's gonna start?
Miles, did you kill someone?" "Oh, no!
He turned to her in sincerity.
Jesus, I can't believe it." "What are you involved in?
I thought you were a consultant." "I was.
Tomorrow I will be a very rich retired consultant.
He pulled her hands into his and spoke warmly.
Listen, it's better that your don't know what's going on, much better.
But I promise you, I promise you, that Homosoto is behind it, not me.
I couldn't ever kill anyone.
You need to believe that." "Miles, I do, but you seem to know more than . . ." "I do, and I can't say anything.
Trust me," he said as he brought her close to him.
This will all work out for the best. I promise you.
Look at me," he said and pulled up her chin so she gazed directly into his eyes.
I have a lot invested in you, and this project.
More than you could ever know, and now that it is nearly over, I can put more time into you.
After all, you bear some of the responsibility.
Miles' loving attitude was a contradiction from his usual self centered pre-occupation. "Me?
She asked. "Who got me involved with Homosoto in the first place?" he said glaring at her. "I guess I did, but . . ." "I know, I'm kidding," he said squeezing her closer.
I'm not blaming you for anything.
I didn't know he could resort to murder, and if I did, I never would have gotten involved in the first place." "Miles, I love you.
That was the first time in their years of on-again off-again contact that she told him how she felt.
Now she had to decide if she would tell him that he was just another assignment, and that in all likelihood she had just lost her job, too.
His tirade began minutes after he summoned them both to his office.
What is it about this computer stuff that stirs up so much emotion?
He waited for an answer. "I'm not sure that computers are to blame, sir," said Phil. "First of all, the assailant used a ceramic pistol.
No way for our security to detect it without a physical search and that wouldn't go over well with anyone.
The brilliant Musgrave was making a case for calm rationality in the light of the live assassination attempt.
Second, at this point there is no con- nection between Troubleaux and his attacker.
We're not even 100% sure that Troubleaux was the target." "That's a crock Phil," asserted the President.
It doesn't take a genius to figure out that there is an obvious connection be- tween this computer crap and the Rickfield incident.
I want to know what it is, and I want to know fast." "Sir," Chambers said quietly.
We have the FBI and the CIA investigating, but until the perpetrator regains consciousness, which may be doubtful because his spine was snapped in the fall, we won't know too much." The President frowned.
Does it seem odd to you that Mason, the Times reporter was there with Troubleaux at the exact time he got shot?" "No sir, just a coincidence.
It seems that computer crime has been his hot button for a while," Musgrave said.
I don't think he's involved at all." "I'm not suggesting that," the President interrupted.
But he does seem to be where the action is.
I think it would be prudent if we knew a bit more of his activities.
Do I need to say more?" "No sir.
Consider it done." **************************************************************** Chapter 22 Friday, January 8 Washington, D.C. It seemed that everyone in the world wanted to speak to Scott at once.
The FBI spent an hour asking him inane questions.
Why did you help him?
Why were you at the hearings?
Why didn't you sit with the rest of the press?" "Where's your camera?
Can we read your notes?" Scott was cooperative, but he had his limits.
You're the one who's been writing those computer stories, aren't you?
What's in this for you?" Scott excused himself, not so politely.
Damned pain in the ass, he thought, and damn stupid questions.
How did you feel . . .?
Were you scared . . .?
Why did you . . .?" The exhausted Scott found the only available solace in a third floor men's room stall where he wrote a piece for the paper on his GRiD laptop computer.
Nearly falling asleep on the toilet seat, he temporarily refreshed himself with ice cold water from the tap and changed from his bloodsoaked clothes into fresh jeans and a pullover from his hanging bag that still burdoned him.
They didn't detain him very long, realizing Scott would always be available.
Especially since this was news.
Rush back to public Senate hearings that no one has ever heard about.
Television cameras appear, no one admits to calling the press, and then, Pierre.
He needed time to think, alone.
Away from the conflict- ing influences that were tearing at him. On one hand his paper expected him to report and investigate the news.
On another, Tyrone wanted help on his investigation be- cause official Washington had turned their backs on him.
Why is that so familiar?
Then he had to be honest with his own feelings.
But Scott was drowning in the story. There were too many pieces, from every conceivable direction, with none too many of them fitting neatly together.
He thought of the ever determined Hurcule Poirot, Agatha Christie's detec- tive, recalling that the answers to a puzzle came infinitely easier to the fictional sleuth than to him. Scott called into Doug. "Are you all right?
Doug asked with concern but didn't wait for an answer.
Next time call me at home.
I thought you were going to be in Europe till Wednesday." "Hold your horses," Scott said with agitation.
Doug shut up and listened to the distraught Scott.
I have the story all written for you.
Both of them are going into surgery and the Arab is in pretty bad shape.
The committee made itself scarce real fast and there's no one else to talk to.
I've had to make a career out of avoiding reporters.
Seems like I'm the only one left with noth- ing to say.
Doug heard the exhaustion in Scott's voice. "Listen," Doug said with a supportive tone.
You've been doing a bang up job, but I'm sending Ben down there to cover the assassi- nation attempt.
I want you to go to bed for 24 hours and that's an order.
I don't want to hear from you till Monday." Scott gratefully acknowledged Doug's edict, and might have sug- gested it himself if it weren't for his dedication to the story he had spent months on already.
I guess not much will happen . . ." "That's right.
I want you fresh anyway," Doug said with vigor. "If anything major comes up, I'll see that we call you.
Fair enough?" Scott checked his watch as his cab got caught up in the slow late afternoon rush hour traffic on the George Washington Parkway.
If he missed this flight, he thought, there was another one in an hour.
The pandemonium of Friday afternoon National Airport had become legendary.
They were stuck behind an interminable line of other taxis, limousines, cars and mini- busses that had been stacking for ten minutes.
Scott decided to hike the last few yards and he paid the driver who tried to talk him into remaining till the ride was over.
Scott weaved through the standstill traffic jam until he saw the problem.
So typical. A stretch Mercedes 560, was blocking the only two lanes that were passable.
Worse yet, there was no one in the car.
Several airport police were discussing their options when a tall, slender black man, dressed in an impeccably tailored brown suit came rushing from the terminal doors. "Diplomatic immunity!
He called out with a thick, overbearing Cambridge accent. The startled policemen saw the man push several people to the side, almost knocking one elderly woman to the ground.
Scott reached the Mercedes and stayed to watch the upcoming encounter "I said, Diplomatic immunity," he said authoritatively.
Put your tickets away." "Sir, are you aware that your car has been blocking other cars from . . ." "Take it up with the Embassy," the man said as he roughly opened the driver's door.
This car belongs to the Ambassador and he is immune from your laws.
He shut the door, revved the engine and pulled out squealing his tires.
Several pedestrians had to be fleet of foot to miss being sideswiped. "Fucking camel jockeys," said one younger policeman. "He's from equatorial Africa, Einstein," said another. "It's all the same to me.
Foreigners telling us how to live our lives," the third policeman said angrily. "You know, I can get 10 days for spitting on the ground, but these assholes can commit murder and be sent home a hero.
A melting pot that echoed the days of Ellis Island.
Scott carried his briefcase, laptop computer and garment bag through the crowded terminal and made a left to the men's room next to the new blue neon bar.
Drinks were poured especially fast in the National Airport Bar.
Fliers were traveling on such tight schedules that they had to run to the bar, grab two quick ones and dash to the gate.
The new security regulations placed additional premiums on drinking time.
The bar accommodated their hurried needs well. Scott put down his baggage next to the luggage pile and stole a bar seat from a patron rushing off to catch his flight.
He ordered a beer, and sucked down half of it at once.
The thirst quenching was a superior experience. Brain dulling would take a little longer. The clamorous rumble of the crowd and the television blaring from behind the bar further anesthetized Scott's racing mind.
He finally found himself engrossed in the television, blissfully ignorant of all going on around him.
Scott became so absorbed in the local news that he didn't notice the striking blonde sit next to him.
She ordered a white wine and made herself comfortable on the oversized stool. Scott turned to the bartender and asked for another beer during the commercial.
It was then he noticed the gorgeous woman next to him and her golden shoulder length hair.
Lightly tanned skin with delicate crow's feet at the edges of her penetrating blue eyes gave no indication of her age.
An old twenty to a remarka- ble forty five.
He shook the thought off and returned his attention to the televi- sion. He heard the announcer from Channel 4, the local NBC affiliate. "Topping tonight's stories, Shooting at Senate Hearing.
The picture changed from the anchorman to a live feed from outside the New Senate Office Building, where Scott had just been. "Bringing it to us live is Shauna Miller.
Shauna?" "Thank you Bill," she said looking straight into the camera holding the microphone close to her chin.
At 3:15 Eastern Time, an unidentified assailant, using a 9mm Barretta, shot Mr. Troubleaux four times, from the visitor's balcony which overlooks the hear- ing room.
Mr. Troubleaux was answering questions about . . . " Scott's mind wandered back to the events of a few hours ago.
He still had no idea why he did it.
The television replayed the portion of the video tape where Pierre was testifying.
While he spoke, the shots rang out and the camera image suddenly blurred in search of the source of the sound.
Briefly the gunman is seen and then the picture swings back to Pierre being pushed out of his chair by a man in a blue sports jacket and white shirt.
As two more gun shots ring out the figure covers Pierre.
Two more shots and the camera finally settles on Pierre Troubleaux bleed- ing profusely from the head, his eyes open and glazed. Scott shuddered at the broadcast.
It captured the essence of the moment, and the terror that he and the hundreds of others at the hearing had experienced.
Shauna Miller reappeared. "And we have here the man who dove to Mr. Troubleaux's rescue when the shooting began.
The camera angle pulled back and showed Scott standing next to the newswoman. "This is Scott Mason, a reporter from the New York City Times who is attending the hearings on behalf of his paper.
Scott," she turned away from the camera to speak directly to Scott.
How does it feel being the news instead of reporting it?
She stuck the microphone into his face. "Uh," Scott stammered.
What an assinine question, he thought. "It does give me a different perspective," he said, his voice hollow. "Yes, I would think so," Shauna added.
Can you tell us what happened?" More brilliance in broadcast journalism.
Sure, be happy to." Scott smiled at the camera.
How's that?" He said devilishly. "Uh," Shauna hesitated.
This isn't Geraldo she thought, just the local news.
Do you have anything to add?" "Yeah?
I got to get some sleep." The camera zoomed into a closeup of Shauna Miller.
Mr. Troubleaux and the alleged gunman have been taken to Walter Reed Medical Center where they are undergoing surgery.
Both are listed in critical condition and Mr. Troubleaux is still in a coma.
Shauna droned on for another 30 seconds with filler nonsense.
How did she ever get on the air, Scott thought.
And, why does she remain? "That was you." Scott started at the female voice.
He turned to the left and only saw salesmen and male lobbyists drinking heartily.
He pivoted in the other direction and came face to face with Sonja Lindstrom.
Sorry?" "That was you," she said widening her smile to expose a perfect Crest ad. An electric tingle ran up Scott's legs and through his torso. The pit of his stomach felt suddenly empty.
He gulped silently and his face reddened.
What was me?" She pointed at the television.
That was you at the hearing today, where Troubleaux got shot." "Yeah, 'fraid so," he said. "The camera treats you well.
I was at the hearing, too, but I just figured out who you were.
Her earnest compliment came as a surprise to Scott.
He raised his eyebrows in bewilderment. "Who I am?
He questioned. "Oh, sorry," she extended her hand to Scott.
I gather you're Scott Mason.
He gently took her hand and a rush of electricity rippled up his arm till the hairs on the back of his neck stood on end. "Guilty as charged," he responded.
He pointed his thumb at the television.
Great interview, huh?" "She epitomizes the stereotype of the dumb blond.
Sonja turned her head slightly.
I hope you're not prejudiced?" "Prejudiced? She picked up her wine glass and sipped gingerly.
Against blondes." "No, no. I was married to one," he admitted.
But, I won't hold that against you.
Scott wasn't aggressive with women and his remark surprised even him.
Sonja laughed appreciatively. "It must have been rough," Sonja said empathetically.
I mean the blood and all." "Not exactly my cup of tea.
I don't do the morgue shift.
I'll stick to computers, not nearly so adventurous." "And hacker bashing." she said firmly.
She took another sip of wine. "How would you know that?
Scott asked. She turned and smiled at Scott.
You're known as the Hacker Smacker by quite a few in the computer field.
Not everyone appreciates what you have to say.
Sonja, ever so politely, challenged Scott. "Frankly my dear, I don't give a damn," he smirked. "That's the spirit," she encouraged.
I only know you as Sonja." "You're right.
That's not fair at all.
She straightened her- self on the bar stool.
Sonja Lindstrom, dual citizenship U.S. and Denmark.
Born May 11, 1964, Copenhagen.
Moved here when I was two.
Studied political science at George Washington, minored in sociology.
Currently a public relations consultant to comput- er jocks.
I live in D.C. but I'm rarely here." "Lucky for me," Scott ventured. Sonja didn't answer him as she slowly drained the bottom of her wine glass.
She glanced slyly at him, or was that his imagina- tion? "Can a girl buy a guy a drink?" The clock said there was fifteen minutes before Scott's flight took off.
No contest. "I'd be honored," Scott said as he nodded his head in gratitude. Sonja Lindstrom bought the next two rounds and they talked.
No serious talk, just carefree, sometimes meaningless banter that made them laugh and relish the moment.
Scott didn't know he had missed his second flight until it was time for the 8:15 plane to LaGuardia.
It had been entirely too long.
Scott shrank back. "Humor me," she said. "Nothing against her, it just didn't work out." "What happened?
Sonja pursued. "She was an artist, a sculptor.
And if I say so myself, an awful one.
A three year old could do as well with stale Play-Dough." "You're a critic, too?
Sonja bemused. "Only of her art. She got into the social scene in New York, gallery openings, the she-she sect.
You know what I mean?" Sonja nodded.
So, when I decided to make a career shift, well, she wasn't in complete agreement with me.
I think some of her Park Avenue pals went to Beverly Hills and wanted her to come out to be their entertainment.
She expected me to follow her hallucinations, but I just couldn't play that part. She's a little left of the Milky Way for me." "How long has it been?
Sonja asked with warmth. "Three years now." "So, what have these years been like?" "Oh, fine," he said.
Sonja gave him a disbelieving dirty look. "O.K., kinda lonely.
She's a sweet girl, I loved her, but she had needs that . . .well.
It wasn't all bad, we had a great few years.
I just couldn't let her madness, harmless though it was, run my life.
We're still friends, we talk fairly often.
I hope she becomes the next Dali." "That's very gracious of you," Sonja said sincerely. "Not really.
I really feel that way.
It's her life, and, she never wanted or tried to hurt me.
She was just following her star." "Has she sold any of her art?
Sonja asked. "It's on perpetual display, she says," Scott said. "Why don't you buy one?
To make her feel good?" "Ha!
Beverly Hills is not the worst place in the world to be accepted.
He lost himself in thought for a moment.
I think it has worked out for both of us." "Except, you're lonely," she came back. "I got into my work.
A career shift at my age, you know, I had a lot to learn.
So, I've really put myself into the job, and I've been getting a lot out of it.
He stared at the gorgeous woman to whom he had been telling his personal feelings.
But, yes, I do miss the companionship," he hinted. The clock over the bar announced it was quarter to ten.
Hey." Scott turned to face Sonja squarely.
I gotta go, you don't know how much I don't want to, but I gotta.
He spoke with a pained sincerity. "No you don't," she said exuberantly. "Huh?" Sonja's entire face glowed .
Have you ever done anything crazy?" "Sure, of course," Scott nonchalantly said. "No, I mean really crazy.
Spontaneous." She grabbed Scott's shoulders.
Haven't you ever wanted to go off the deep end and not care what anybody thinks?
Scott felt himself getting captured by her exuberance.
This absolutely stunning blonde bombshell exuded enough sexual enthusiasm for the entire NFL, and yet, he was playing it cool.
He wondered why. "I was a real hell raiser as a kid . . ." "Listen, Scott.
Are you willing to do something outrageous right now?
And go through with it?" Here was one of the most beautiful women he had ever seen asking him to make a borderline insane promise.
Her painted lips broke into a lush smile.
Ten minutes to the last flight. "I'm game.
He could always say no. Right? "Wait here a minute.
Sonja grabbed her purse and dashed out of the bar.
Scott's eyes followed her in stunned amazement. Scott finished his beer and the clock indicated that the last flight to New York had left.
He wondered what was keeping Sonja so long, and then she suddenly whisked back into the bar. "C'mon, we have to hurry.
Sonja shuffled papers in and out of her purse.
She threw enough money on the bar to cover their drinks. Scott scooted off of his bar stool laughing.
Where're we going?" "Shhhh, get your bags," Sonja said urgently.
You do have a passport don't you?
She asked with concern. "I just came from Europe, yeah.
His bewilderment was clear while he retrieved his luggage. "Good.
Follow me." Sonja dashed through the terminal to the security check with Scott struggling to keep up.
The view of her exquisite figure was noticed by more than just Scott, but she left him little time to relish the view.
She tossed her purse on the conveyor belt as a dazed Scott struggled with his own two bags.
She darted from the security station leaving Mason to reorganize himself.
His ability to run was encumbered by his luggage so he watched care- fully to see into which gate she was headed. Gate, gate?
He would have laughed if he wasn't out of breath from wind sprinting through the airport. He followed Sonja into Gate 3. She handed a couple of tickets to the attendant.
We're the last ones, hurry up, Mason," Sonja giggled. "Where are we going . . .where did the tickets . . .how are you?" Scott stumbled through his thoughts. "Just get on the plane.
She held out her hand, beckoning him seductively. The attractive flight attendant stared at Scott.
His hesitancy was holding up the flight.
This is insane," he said quietly. "So it is." "Where?
I mean where is this plane headed?" "Jamaica," she beamed. "Oh, Sonja, come on, this isn't real.
Why the hell was he trying to talk himself out of a fantasy in the making. "I'm getting on.
I need a weekend to cool out, and I know you do.
Sonja took the separated boarding pass and looked back once before she left.
He stared as Sonja disappeared down the tunnel to the plane. The flight attendant appeared quite annoyed.
Well, are you or aren't you?" Scott reasoned that if he reasoned out the pros and the cons the plane would be gone regardless of his decision.
Fuck it," he said and he walked briskly down the ramp. He entered the Airbus behind the cockpit and turned right to find Sonja.
She was the only person sitting in first class.
Fancy running into you here," she said waving from the plush leather seat. "Quite," he said in his well practiced West London accent.
Dare I guess how long it's been?
He placed his bags in the empty first class storage compartment. "Too long.
You had me worried," Sonja said melo- dramatically. "I still have me worried." "I thought you might chicken out," she said. "I still might." The three hour flight was replete with champagne, brie and simi- lar delicacies.
They munched and sipped to their heart's con- tent.
One flight attendant, two passengers.
Light talk, innocu- ous flirtations, not so innocuous flirtations, more chatting - time passed, hours disguised as seconds. Half Moon Bay is a one hour cab ride from the airport and, true to Jamaican hospitality, the hotel staff expected them.
They were led to two adjoining rooms after being served the obligatory white rum punch with a yellow umbrella.
It was nearly 3 AM. Scott was working on 60 hours with little or no sleep. "Scott?
Sonja asked as they prepared to go into their respective rooms. "Yes," he said. "Thank you." "For what?" "For tomorrow night." After four hours sleep, Sonja knocked on Scott's door.
Beach time!" Scott swore to himself, looked at the clock on the night stand, and then swore again.
Scott forced himself out of bed and opened the door.
The vision of Sonja Lindstrom in a bathing suit that used no more than 4 square inches of material was instantly arousing.
Despite 39 plus years of morning aversions, Scott readied himself at breakneck speed, thinking that reality and fantasy were often inseparable.
The question was, what was this? Was he really in the Caribbean?
This is real! Holy shit, this is real.
I wasn't as drunk as I thought.
She was a natural blond with a dancer's body where the legs and buttocks merge into one. "I am not!
He defended. "I bet you can't take them off.
For personal reasons," she laughed out loud pointing at the baggy swim suit he borrowed from the resort.
She lay down on her back, perfectly formed breasts pointing at the sky.
Scott noticed only the faintest of tan lines several inches below her belly button.
She patted the huge towel, inviting Scott to join her.
There was room enough for three, "Well," he agreed.
I thought my intentions were honorable." "Bull.
She arched her back and patted the towel again. "Fuck it," he said laughingly as he dropped his bathing suit and dropped quickly, facedown next to Sonja.
He yelled louder than the hurt was worth.
I hate it when that happens," he said checking to make sure that the pieces were still intact. They spent the next two days exploring Half Moon Bay, the lush green hills behind the resort and each other.
Scott forgot about work, forgot about the hackers, forgot about Tyrone.
He never thought about Kirk, Spook, or any of the blackmail schemes he was so caught up in investigating.
And, he forgot, at least tempo- rarily about the incident with Pierre.
They made it to the water's edge early Sunday morning.
Scott's body was redder in some places than it had ever been, and Sonja's tan line all but disappeared.
They both knew that the fantasy was going to be over in the morning, a 7:00 AM flight back to reality, but neither spoke of it.
The Here and Now was the only reality that they wanted to face. "I'm impressed," Sonja said turning to face Scott on the beach towel.
No matter in which direction she turned, her body stood tall and firm. "Impressed, with what?
Scott giggled. "I had two days to loosen you up before you went back to that big bad city.
I'm ahead of schedule." "What schedule?" "Scott, we need to talk.
Sonja reached over and touched Scott's shoulder.
He couldn't take his eyes off of her magnificent nude figure.
Did you ever work on something, for a very long time; really get yourself involved, dedicated, and then find out in was all for the wrong reasons?
That's how I feel now." * * * * * Saturday, January 10 It is not uncommon for the day employees at the CIA in Langley to arrive at their desks before 6:00 AM. Even on a Saturday.
Today, Martin Templer arrived early to prepare for an update meeting with the director.
Nothing special, just the weekly report.
He found that he could get more done early in the morning.
He enjoyed the time alone in his quiet office so he could complete the report without constant interruption.
Not fifteen minutes into his report, his phone rang.
Damn, he thought, it's starting already. "Yeah?
Templer said gruffly into the mouthpiece. "Martin?" "Yeah, who's this?" "Alex." Templer had almost forgotten about their meeting.
Will small wonders never cease.
Where have you been?" "Still in Europe.
I've been looking for some answers as we dis- cussed." "Great!
Templer grabbed a legal pad. "Nothing," Alex said with finality.
Nobody knows of any such operation, not even a hint.
Alex had mastered the art of lying twenty years ago.
But I'll tell you," he added, "I think that you may be on to something." "If there's nothing, how can there be something?" asked Martin Templer. This was Alex's opportunity to throw the CIA further off the track.
Since he and Martin were friends, as much as is possible in this line of work, Alex counted on being believed, at least for a while.
Everybody denies any activity and that in itself is unusual.
Even if nothing is happening, enough of the snitches on the street will claim to be involved to bolster their own credibility.
However, my friend, I doubt a handful even know about your radiation, but it has gotten a lot of people thinking. I get the feeling that if they didn't know about your problems, they will soon enough.
I wish I could be of further help, but it was all dead ends." "I understand.
It happens; besides it was a long shot," Martin sighed.
Do me a favor, and keep your eyes and ears open." "I will, and this one is on the house," said Alex. After he hung up something struck Martin as terribly wrong.
In twenty years Alex had never, ever, done anything for free.
He had to deal with them both immediately. DIALING . . . <<<<<<AUTOCRYPT CONVERSATION>>>>>> I AM NOT PLEASED. Ahmed Shah heard his communications computer beep at him.
HE MUST NOT SPEAK TO ANYONE. He is in a coma. PEOPLE WAKE UP.
I DO NOT WANT HIM TO WAKE UP. It will be done.
I promise you. I DO NOT WANT PROMISES.
IS THAT CLEAR? Yes, it will be done. FOR YOUR SAKE I HOPE SO.
I DO NOT TOLERATE SLOPPINESS. <<<<<<CONNECTION TERMINATED>>>>>> Homosoto dialed his computer again, to a number inside Germany. The encryption and privacy keys were automatically set before Alex Spiradon's computer answered.
To Homosoto's surprise, Alex was there. MR ALEX. Yes. CONGRATULATIONS.
RICKFIELD IS BEING MOST COOPERATIVE. He has many reasons to. MILLIONS OF REASONS. We merely gave him the incentive to cooperate.
I do not expect that he will maintain his position for very long. YOUR HANDLING OF HIM HAS BEEN EXCELLENT.
HOW DO THEY REACT TO HIS COMMITTEE? He took a small beating from a couple of papers, but nothing damaging.
It's the way Washington works. WHO IS SENATOR DEERE?
SHE COULD PRESENT A PROBLEM. I don't think so.
Between her and Rickfield, the sum total will be a big zero.
There will be confusion and dissension.
I think it works in our favor. I WILL FOLLOW THE PROGRESS WITH INTEREST.
WHEN ARE THE HEARINGS TO CONTINUE? Next week.
You asked that I get to Scott. Consider it done.
You found a most attractive weakness and he succumbed instantly.
But, I should say, I don't think it was necessary.
He is doing fine on his own. I THINK IT IS NECESSARY.
Following in the footsteps of Ford and Chrysler, this is the first time that Mercedes has not issued an immediate 'Fix' to its dealer.
That's what I make of it." "Someone's obviously leaking it to him," Marvin Jacobs, Director of the National Security Agency, said to his senior aid.
Some- one with access to a great deal of sensitive data.
The disdain in his voice was unmistakable. Even though it was Sunday, it was not unusual for him to be at his office.
His more private endeavors could be more discreetly pursued.
A three decade career at the Agency had culminated in his appointment to the Directorship, a position he had eyed for years. "We have specialists who use HERF technology," the aide said. "It's more or less a highly focused computer-gun.
An RF field on the order of 200 volts per meter is sufficient to destroy most electrical circuits.
Literally blow them up from the inside out." "Spare me the details." "Sir, we can stop a car from a thousand yards by pointing elec- tricity at it." "I don't really care about the details." "You should, sir.
There's a point to this . . ." "Well, get on with it.
Jacobs was clearly annoyed. "Unlike the EMP-T technology which is very expensive and on the absolute edge of our capabilities . . ." "And someone elses . . ." "Granted," the aide said, sounding irritated with the constant interruptions.
But HERF can be generated cheaply by anyone with an elementary knowledge of electronics.
The government even sells surplus radio equipment that will do the job quite nicely." Jacobs smiled briefly. "You look pleased," the aide said with surprise. Jacobs hid his pleasure behind a more serious countenance.
Oh, no, it's just the irony of it all.
This was his way of telling subordinates to talk, spill their guts. "The real worry about cheap HERF is what it can do in the wrong hands.
The aide obliged the ritual.
One transmitter and antenna in a small truck can wipe out every computer on main street during a leisurely drive.
Cash registers, electric type- writers, alarms, phones, traffic lights . . .anything electronic a HERF is pointed at, Poof!
What if someone used a HERF gun at an airport, pointing up?
From up to a distance of over a kilometer, too.
Ten kilometers with better equipment." "So it works," muttered Jacobs so softly under his breath his aide didn't hear. "It's reminiscent of drive-by shootings by organized crime.
In this case, though, the target is slightly different." "I see.
Jacobs kept his eyes closed as the aide patiently waited for his boss to say something or allow him to return to his family.
I gather we use similar tools ourselves?" "Yessir.
Better kept quiet." "Not any more.
Not any more." **************************************************************** Chapter 23 Monday, January 11 Washington, D.C. I don't think you're gonna be pleased," Phil Musgrave said at their early morning conclave, before the President's busy day began. "What else is new?" asked the President acerbically.
Why should I have an easy today any more than any other day?
His dry wit often escaped much of the White House staff, but Musgrave had been exposed to it for over 20 years and took it in stride.
The President poured himself more hot decaf from the silver service.
What is it?" "Computers." The President groaned.
Don't you ever long for the old days when a calculator consisted of two pieces of sliding wood or a hundred beads on rods?" Musgrave ignored his boss's frustration.
Over the weekend, sir, we experienced a number of incidents that could be considered non-random in nature," Musgrave said cautiously. "In English, Phil," insisted the President. "MILNET has been compromised.
The Optimus Data Base at Pentagon has been erased as has been Anniston, Air Force Systems Command and a dozen other computers tied through ARPANET." The President sighed.
Damage report?" "About a month.
We didn't lose anything too sensitive, but that's not the embarrassing part." "If that's not, then what is?" "The IRS computers tied to Treasury over the Consolidated Data Network?
The President indicated to continue.
The Central Collection Services computer for the Dallas District has had over 100,000 records erased.
The President said wearily. "The IRS has had poor backup procedures.
The OMB and GAO reports of 1989 and 1990 detailed their operational shortcomings.
The President waited for Phil to say something he could relate to. "It appears that we'll lose between $500 million and $2 Billion in revenues." "Christ!
Enough is enough. The two weeks is up as of this moment.
He shook his head with his eyes closed in disbelief.
The last damn thing we need is for the public to think that we can't protect our own computers and the privacy of our citizens.
If there is one single leak, I will personally behead the offender," the President said with intensity enough to let Phil know that his old friend and comrade meant what he said. "Issue an internal directive, lay down the rules.
Who knows about this?" "Too many people, sir.
I am not convinced that we can keep this completely out of the public eye." "Isolate them." "Sir?" "You heard me.
Tell them it'll only be few days.
Make up any damn story you want, but have it taken care of.
They tore themselves apart from each other, she tearfully, at National Airport where they had met.
He would be back in a few days, once the hearings were rescheduled.
On the descent into New York, he half awak- ened, to a hypnagogic state.
Scott had learned over the years how to take advantage of such semi-conscious conditions.
The mind seemingly floated in a place between reality and conjecture - where all possibilities are tangible, unencumbered by earthly concerns.
The ego of Scott Mason restrained itself from interfering with the sublime mental proc- esses that bordered on the realm of pure creativity.
The germ of a thought, the inchoate idea, had the luxury of exploring itself in an infinity of possibilities and the conscious mind stood on the sidelines.
The blissful experience was in constant jeopardy of being relegated to a weak memory, for any sudden disturbance could instantly cause the subconscious to retreat back into a merger with the conscious mind.
Thus, he highly valued these spontaneous meditations. Bits and pieces of the last few days wove themselves into complex patterns that reflected the confusion he felt.
He continued to gaze on and observe as the series of mental events that had no obvious relationships assumed coherency and meaning.
When one does not hold fixed preconceived notions, when one has the abili- ty to change perspective, then, in these moments, the possibili- ties multiply.
Scott watched himself with the hackers in Amster- dam, with Kirk and Tyrone at home; he watched himself both live and die with Pierre in Washington.
Then the weekend, did it just end?
The unbelievable weekend with Sonja.
But he had the thought and he remembered it. Scott hired a stretch limousine at LaGuardia and slept all the way to Scarsdale, but lacking the good sense God gave him, he checked the messages on his phone machine.
Doug called to find out if Scott still worked for the paper and Ty called requesting, almost pleading, that Scott call as soon as he got back.
He had to see him, post haste. The call to Doug was simple.
Pierre is still alive, I have more material than we can use.
I did take notes, and my butt is sun- burned.
If there's nothing else, I'm dead on my feet and I will see you in the morning.
Click. Now he wanted to talk to Tyrone as much as it sounded like Ty wanted to speak to him.
Probably at the office. He dialed quickly.
Tyrone answered with equal speed. "Are you back?
Ty asked excitedly. "Yeah, just got in. I need to talk to you . . ." "Not as much as we do, buddy.
Where are you now?" "Home.
Why?" "I'll see you in an hour.
The FBI man was in control.
Where the hell else am I going to go, Scott thought. Scott piddled around, making piles for his maid, unpacking and puttering around the kitchen.
Everything in the fridge needed cooking, and there was not enough energy for that, so he decided to take a shower.
That might give him a few more hours before he collapsed. Exactly one hour later, as promised, Tyrone Duncan rang Scott's doorbell.
They exchanged a few pleasantries and then plunged into intense information exchange.
I think there's a conspiracy." Scott winced to himself as he said the one word that was the bane of many a reporter. "I said I think you were right.
And are right." "What the devil are you talking about?
Scott was more confused then ever. "Remember a few months back, on the train we were talking." "Of course we were talking.
Scott recognized the humor in the conversation. "No!
I mean we were . . .shit.
Shut up and listen or I'll arrest you!" "On what charge?" "CRS." "CRS?" "Yeah, Can't Remember Shit.
Shut up!" Scott leaned back in his chair sipping away.
He had gotten to Ty.
One day you said that the motivation might be a disruption of normal police and FBI operations.
I think you might be right.
It's looking more and more that the blackmail stuff was a diversion." "What makes you think so now?
We had dozens of stakeouts, watching the drop points for a pick up.
It read like the little bastards were finally getting greedy.
You know what I mean?" Scott nodded in agreement, thinking, where is this going? "So we had a couple hundred agents tied up waiting for the bad guys to show up.
There must have been fifty million in cash sitting in bus terminals, train stations, health clubs, you name it, and no one comes to get any of it?
There's something wrong with that picture." "And you think it's a cover?
For what?" Ty shrank back in mild sublimation.
Well," he began, "that is one small piece of the puzzle I haven't filled in yet.
But, I thought you might be able to help with that.
Tyrone Duncan's eyes met Scott's and said, I am asking as a friend as well as an agent.
Come on, we both win on this one. "Stop begging, Ty.
It doesn't befit a member of the President's police force," Scott teased.
Of course I was going to tell you. You're gonna read about it soon enough, and I know," he said half-seriously, "you won't screw me again." Ouch, thought Tyrone.
Why not pour in the salt while you're at it.
No one thinks there's a problem.
I keep shouting and being ignored.
It's infinitely more prudent in the government to fuck-up by non-action than by taking a position and acting upon it.
I'm on a solo." "Good enough," Scott assured Ty.
It felt good. They were back - friends again. "Yeah, It's six o'clock somewhere," Tyrone sighed.
So what's your news?" "You know I went over to this Hacker's Conference . . ." "In Amsterdam." added Tyrone. "Right, and I saw some toys that you can't believe," Scott said intently.
The term Hacker should be replaced with Dr. Hacker. These guys are incredible.
To them there is no such thing as a locked door.
They can get into and screw around with any comput- er they want." "Nothing new there," said Ty. "Bullshit.
I know, I'm sorry," Tyrone said sincerely. "Fuck it.
Anyway, I saw the equipment in actual use.
I saw them read computers with anten- nas.
Scott spoke excitedly. "You say it's Tempest?" "No, anti-Tempest.
These guys have got it down.
Regardless, the stuff works." "So what?
It works." "So, let's say, if the hackers use these computer monitors to find out all sorts of dirt on companies," Scott slowly explained as he organized his thoughts.
Then they issue demands and cause all sorts of havoc and paranoia.
Then they don't come to collect it.
So what have they achieved?
Scott asked rhetorically. "They tied up one shit load of a lot of police time, I'll tell you that." "Exactly.
That's where we started," Ty said. "But who is the diversion for?" The light bulb went off in Tyrone's head.
The hackers!" "Right," agreed Scott.
They're the ones who are going to do whatever it is that the diversion is covering.
Did that make sense?" "No," laughed Ty, "but I got it.
Why would the hackers have to be covering for themselves.
Couldn't they be working for someone else?" "I doubt it.
This is one independent bunch of characters," Scott affirmed.
What happened in D.C. . . ." "Troubleaux," interrupted Ty. "Bingo.
And there's something else, too." "What?" "I've been hearing about a computer system called the Freedom League.
Nothing specific, just that everything about it sounds too good to be true." "It usually is." "And one other thing.
If there is some sort of hacker plot, I think I know someone who's involved." "Did he admit anything?" "No, nothing.
Scott hesitated and stut- tered.
Troubleaux, he said something to me." "Excuse me?
I thought his brains were leaking out." "Thanks for reminding me; I had to buy a new wardrobe." "And a tan?
Where've you been?" "With, well," Scott blushed, "that's another story." "O.K., Romeo, how did he talk?
Ty asked doubtfully. "He told me that dGraph was sick." "Who's dGraph?" "dGraph," laughed Scott, "is how your secretary keeps your life organized.
It's the most popular piece of software in the world. Troubleaux founded the company.
And I think I know what he meant." "He's a nerdy whiz kid, huh?" joked Tyrone "Just the opposite.
Mongo sex appeal to the ladies.
No, his partner was the . " Scott stopped mid sentence.
Hey, I just remembered something.
Troubleaux had a partner, he founded the company with him.
A couple of days before they went public, his partner died.
Shortly thereafter Data Tech bought them." "And you think there's a connection?" "Maybe, ah...I can't remember exactly," Scott said.
Hey, you can find out." "How?" "Your computers." "They're at the office." Scott pointed to his computer and Tyrone shook his head violent- ly.
I don't know how to. " "Ty," Scott said calmly.
Ask her for the number and your passwords.
Scott persuaded Ty to be humble and dial his office.
He was actually able to guide Ty through the process of accessing one of the largest collections of informa- tion in the world. "How did you know we could do that?
Ty asked after they logged into the FBI computer from Scott's study. "Good guess.
I figured you guys couldn't function without remote access.
Lucky." Tyrone scowled kiddingly at Scott.
You going over to the other side boy?
You seem to know an awful lot." "That's how easy this stuff is.
In fact I heard a story about octogenarian hackers who work from their nursing homes.
I guess it replaces sex." "Bullshit," Tyrone said pointing at his chest.
This is one dude who's knows the real thing.
No placebos for me!" They both laughed.
You know how to take it from here?" asked Scott once a main menu appeared. "Yeah, let me at it.
What the hell did you want to know anyway?" "I imagine you have a file on dGraph, somewhere inside the over 400,000,000 active files maintained at the FBI." "I'm beginning to worry about you.
That's classified . . ." "It's all in the company you keep," Scott chided.
Just ask it for dGraph.
Tyrone selected an Inquiry Data Base and asked the computer for what it knew about dGraph.
In a few seconds, a sub- menu appeared entitled "dGraph, Inc.".
Under the heading ap- peared several options: 1.
Comments "Not bad!" chided Scott.
Got that on everyone?" Tyrone glared at Scott.
You shouldn't even know this exists. Hey, do me a favor, will ya?
When I have to lie later, at least I want to be able to say you weren't staring over my shoulders. Dig?" "No problem," Scott said as he pounced on the couch in front of the desk.
He knocked a few days of mail onto the floor to make room.
O.K., who founded the company?" "Founded 1984, Pierre Troubleaux and Max Jones . . ." "That's it!" exclaimed Scott.
Where?" "Cupertino, California." "What date did they go public?
Scott asked quickly. "Ah, August 6, 1987.
Tyrone gibed. "Can you tie into the California Highway Patrol computers?" "What if I could?" "Well, if you could, I thought it would be interesting to take a look at the police reports.
Because, as I remember, there was something funny about Max Jones," Scott said, and then added mockingly, "but that's only if you have access to the same infor- mation that anyone can get for $2.
It's all public information anyway." "You know I'm not supposed to be doing this," Tyrone said as he pecked at the keyboard. "Bullshit.
You do it all the time." "Not as a public service.
Otherwise, I just wouldn't bother.
Scott stared at the ceiling while the dot matrix print- er sang a high pitched song as the head traveled back and forth. Tyrone scanned the print out coming from the computers in Cali- fornia.
You have one fuckuva memory.
Scott sat up quickly. "What, what does it say?
Scott pressured. "It appears that your friend Max Jones was killed in an automo- bile accident on Highway 275 at 12:30 AM." Ty stopped for a moment to read more.
He was found, dead, at the bottom of a ravine where his car landed after crashing through the barriers. Pretty high speed.
And, the brake lines were cut." "Holy shit," Scott said rising from his chair.
Does two a pat- tern make?" "You mean Troubleaux and Max?" asked Tyrone. "Yeah, they'll do." "In my mind it would warrant further investigation.
He made a mental note. "Anything else there?
Scott asked. "This is the kicker," Ty added.
The investigation lasted two days.
Upstairs told the department to make it a quick and clean, open and shut case of accident." "I assume no one from dGraph had any reason to doubt what the police told them.
It sounds perfectly rational." "Why should they if nobody kicked up a stink?
Ty said to him- self.
Hey," he said to Scott.
You think he was murdered, don't you?" "You bet your ass I do," Scott affirmed.
It's all tying togeth- er." "There's no proof," Tyrone said. "No, and I don't need it yet.
But I sense the connection. That's why I said there's a conspiracy.
He used that word again. "And who is behind it and why?
Tyrone needled Scott. "Nothing's even happened, and you're already spouting conspiracy." "I need to do something.
Scott spoke firmly but vacantly.
I need to talk to Kirk.
I think there's something wrong with dGraph, and he can help." "And two?" "I'd like to know who I saw in Amsterdam." "Why?
Ty asked. "Because . . .because, he's got something to do with . . .what- ever it is.
He as much as admitted it." "I think I can help with that one," offered Ty. "Huh?
Scott looked surprised. "How about we go into my office and see who this guy is?
Tomorrow." Scott decided that the fastest way to reach Kirk, he really needed Kirk, was to write a clue in an article.
Scott dialed the paper's computer from his house and opened a file.
He hadn't planned on writing today - God, how long have I been awake?
This was the easiest way to contact Kirk now, but that was going to change.
History bears out that technology is falling into the same trap.
The bow and arrow, the gun; they were created to help man survive the elements and feed himself.
Today millions of guns are bought with no purpose other than to hurt another human being.
The space program was going to send man to the stars; instead we have Star Wars.
And there was a constant danger of his being caught.
I'd hire me the best computer hacker I could get my hands on and sic him on the targets of my interest.
Through their computers. For argument's sake, let's say I want advance information on companies so I can play the stock market.
I have my hacker get inside the SEC computers, (he can get in from literally thousands of locations nationwide) and read up on the latest figures before they're reported to the public.
But catching me in their computer is an extraordinary exercise in resource frustration, and usually futile.
For unlike the burglar, the computer criminal is never at the scene of the crime.
He is ten or a hundred or a thousand miles away.
Is the computer or the virus the weapon?
Is the virus a special kind of computer bullet?
The intent and the result is the same. I recall hearing an articulate man recently make the case that computers should be licensed, and that not everyone should be able to own one.
He maintained that the use of a computer car- ried with it an inherent social responsibility.
What if the technology that gives us the world's highest standard of living, convenience and luxury was used instead as a means of disruption; a technological civil disobedience if you will?
What if politi- cal strength came from the corruption of an opponent's computer systems?
Are we not dealing with a weapon as much as a gun is a weapon? my friend pleaded. Clearly the computer is Friend.
And the computer, by itself is not bad, but recent events have clearly demonstrated that it can be used for sinister and illegal purposes.
It is the use to which one puts the tool that determines its effectiveness for either good or bad.
Any licensing of computers, information sys- tems, would be morally abhorrent - a veritable decimation of the Bill of Rights.
But I must recognize that the history of indus- trialized society does not support my case. Automobiles were once not licensed.
Do we want it any other way? I am sure many of you wish that drivers licenses were harder to come by.
Guns re- quire licenses in an increasing number of states.
So it might appear logical to say that computers be licensed, to prevent whatever overcrowding calamity may unsuspectingly befall us.
The company phone effectively licenses lines to you, with the added distinction of being able to record everything you do. Computers represent an obvious boon and a potential bane.
When computers are turned against themselves, under the control of humans of course, or against the contents of the computer under attack, the results can ripple far and wide.
Scott didn't arrive until almost eleven; he let himself sleep in, in the hopes of making up for lost sleep.
He knew it didn't work that way, but twelve hours of dead rest had to do something. Tyrone explained as they took an elevator two levels beneath the street that they were going to work with a reconstructionist.
A man with a very powerful computer will build up the face that Scott saw, piece by piece.
No names." Tyrone introduced Scott to Vinnie who would be running the com- puter.
Vinnie's first job was to familiarize Scott with the procedure.
Then, we'll fix it piece by piece." Scott loosely described the Spook.
Dark hair, good looking, no noticeable marks and of course, the dimples.
The face that Vinnie built was generic.
No unique features, just a nose and the other parts that anatomically make up a face.
Scott shook his head, no that's not even close.
Vinnie seemed undaunted. "O.K., now, I am going to stretch the head, the overall shape and you tell me where to stop.
Vinnie asked, beginning his manipulation before Scott answered. "Sure," said Scott.
Vinnie rolled a large track ball built into the keyboard and the head on the screen slowly stretched in height and width.
The changes didn't help Scott much he but asked Vinnie to stop at one point anyway. "Don't worry, we can change it later again.
How about the eyes?" "Two," said Scott seriously. Vinnie gave Scott an ersatz dirty look.
Everyone does it," said Vinnie.
He grinned at Scott. "The eye brows, they were bushier," said Scott. "Good.
The eyebrows on the face twisted and turned as Vinnie moved the trackball with his right hand and clicked at the keyboard with his left. "That's close," Scott said.
Vinnie sat back in his chair and stretched.
How's that," he asked Scott. Scott hesitated.
He felt that he was making too many changes. Maybe this was as close as it got.
It's good," he said without conviction.
There was a slight resemblance. "That's what they all say," Vinnie said.
It's not even close yet.
He laughed as Scott looked shocked.
All we've done so far is get the general outline.
Now, we work on the details." For another two hours Scott commented on the subtle changes Vinnie made to the face.
Nuances that one never thinks of; the curve of the cheek, the half dozen angles of the chin, the hun- dreds of ear lobes, eyes of a thousand shapes - they went through them all and the face took form.
He blurted out change after change and Vinnie executed every one.
Actually, Vinnie preferred it this way, being given the orders.
After all, he hadn't seen the face. "There!
That's the Spook!" exclaimed Scott suddenly. "You sure?" asked Vinnie sitting back in the plush computer chair. "Yup," Scott said with assurance.
That's him." "O.K., let's see what we can do . . .
Vinnie rapidly typed at the keyboard and the picture of the face disappeared.
The screen went blank for a few seconds until it was replaced with a 3 dimensional color model of a head.
The back of the head turned and the visage of the Spook stared at them both.
It was an eerie feeling and Scott shuddered as the disembodied head stopped spinning. "Take a look at this," Vinnie said as he continued typing.
Scott watched the head, Spook's head, come alive.
The lips were mov- ing, as though it, he, was trying to speak.
I can give it a voice if you'd like." "Will that help?
Scott asked. "Nah, not in this case," Vinnie said,"but it is fun.
Let's make sure that we got the right guy here.
We'll take a look at him from every angle.
The head moved to the side for a left pro- file.
I'll make a couple of gross adjustments, and you tell me if it gets any better." They went through another hour of fine tuning the 3-D head, modifying skin tones, texture, hair style and a score of other subtleties.
When they were done Scott remarked that the image looked more like the Spook than the Spook himself.
Incredible. Scott was truly impressed.
The innocuous appearance of the door did not prepare Scott for what he saw; a huge computer room, at least a football field in length.
Thousands of white two by two foot square panel floors hid miles of wires and cables that interconnected the maze of computers in the under- ground control center.
There appeared to be a number of discreet areas, where large computer consoles were centered amidst racks of tape or disk drives which served as the only separation be- tween workers. "This is Big Floyd," Tyrone said proudly.
Or at least one part of him." "Who or what is Big Floyd?" "Big Floyd is a huge national computer system, tied together over the Secure Automated Message Network.
This is the most powerful computer facility outside of the NSA." Quiet conversations punctuated the hum of the disk drives and the clicks of solenoids switching and the printers pushing reams of paper.
The muted voices could not be understood but they rang with purpose.
The NSA computers might have more oomph!, but the FBI computers have more purpose. Tyrone stopped at one control console and asked if they could do a match, stat.
Of course, anything for Mr. Duncan.
Scott recognized the acronym, Rank Has Its Privi- lege.
Tyrone gave the computer operator the pictures and asked him to explain the process to Scott. "I take these pictures and put them in the computer with a scan- ner.
The digitized images are stored here," he said pointing at a a rack of equipment.
Then, we enter the subject's general description.
Height, physique and so on.
He copied the infor- mation into the computer. "Now we ask the computer to find possible matches." "You mean the computer has photos of everyone in there?
Scott asked incredulously. "No, Scott.
Just the bad guys, and people with security clear- ances, and public officials?
Your Aunt Tillie is safe from Big Brother's prying eyes.
The reason for Ty's sarcasm was clear to Scott.
Tyrone was not exactly acting in an official capacity on this part of the investigation. "How many do you have?
Scott asked more diplo- matically. "That's classified," Tyrone said quickly. "The hackers say you have files on over a hundred million people. Is that true?
Tyrone glared at him, as if to say, shut the fuck up.
Scott took the non-verbal hint and they watched in silence as the computer whirred searching for similar photo files in its massive memory.
Within a couple of minutes the computer said that there were 4 possible matches.
At the end of the 10 minute search, it was up to 16 candidates. "We'll do a visual instead of a second search," said the man behind the keyboard.
We'll start with the 90% matches.
There are two of them.
A large monitor flashed with a picture of a man, that while not unlike the Spook in features, was definitely not him.
The picture was a high quality color photograph. "No, not him," Scott said without pause.
The computer operator hit a couple of keys, a second picture flashed on the monitor and Scott's face lit up.
That's the Spook!" Tyrone had wondered if they would find any matches.
While the FBI data base was probably the largest in the world, it was unlikely that there was a comprehensive library of teen age hackers.
Tyrone emphasized the word, 'sure'. "Positive, yes.
That's him." "Let's have a quick look at the others before we do a full re- trieve," said the computer operator.
Tyrone agreed and fourteen other pictures of men with similar facial characteristics to the Spook appeared on the screen, all receiving a quick 'no' from Scott.
Spook's picture as brought up again and again Scott said, "that's him." "All right, Mike," Tyrone said to the man running the computer, "do a retrieve on OBR-III.
Mike nodded and stretched over to a large printer on the side of the console.
He pushed a key and in a few seconds, the printer spewed out page after page of informa- tion.
OBR-III is a super-secret computer system designed to fight terrorism in the United States.
OBR-III and Big Floyd regularly spoke to similar, but smaller, systems in England, France and Germany.
With only small bits of data it can extrapo- late potential terrorist targets, and who is the likely person behind the attacks.
OBR-III is an expert system that learns continuously, as the human mind does.
Within seconds it can provide information on anyone within its memory. Tyrone pulled the first page from the printer before it was finished and read to himself.
He scanned it quickly until one item grabbed his attention.
Boy, when you pick 'em, you pick 'em.
Scott strained to see the printout, but Tyrone held it away. "It's no wonder he calls himself Spook," Tyrone said to no one in particular.
He shut the door behind him and showed Scott a chair. "There's no way I should be telling you this, but I owe you, I guess, and, anyway, maybe you can help.
Tyrone rationalized showing the information to Scott - both a civilian and a report- er.
He may have questioned the wisdom, but not the intent. Besides, as had been true for several weeks, everything Scott learned from Tyrone Duncan was off the record.
For now. The Spook's real name was Miles Foster.
Scott scanned the file. A lot of it was government speak and security clearance inter- views for his job at NSA.
An entire life was condensed into a a few files, covering the time from when he was born to the time he resigned from the NSA.
Scott found much of his life boring and he really didn't care that Miles' third grade teacher remembered him as being a "good boy".
I just figured it would be a regular guy, not a real spook for the government." "Shit happens." "So I see.
Where do we go from here?
Scott asked in awe of the technical capabilities of the FBI. "How 'bout a sanity check?
When were you in Amsterdam?" "Last week, why?" Tyrone sat behind his computer and Scott noticed that his fingers seemed almost too fat to be of much good.
If I can get this thing to work, let's see where's the Control Key?
Scott gazed on as Tyrone talked to himself while working the keyboard and reading the screen.
Foster, Airline, Foreign, ah, the dates," he looked up at a large wall calendar.
All right . . .shit . . .Delete . . .
OK, that's it." "What are you doing?" asked Scott. "Just want to see if your boy really was in Europe with you." "You don't believe me!" shouted Scott. "No, I believe you.
But I need some proof, dig?
Tyrone said. "If he's up to something we need to find out what, step by step. You should know that." "Yeah, I do," Scott resigned.
It's just that I'm not normally the one being questioned.
Know what I mean?" "Our training is more . . .well, it's a moot point now.
Your Mr. Foster flew to Amsterdam and then back to Washington the next day.
I believe I have some legwork ahead of me.
I would like to learn a little more about Mr. Miles Foster." Scott talked Tyrone into giving him a copy of one of the images of Miles aka Spook.
He was hoping that Kirk would call him tonight.
In any case, Scott needed to buy an image scanner if Kirk was going to be of help.
He learnd to bring a picture into the computer and edit or redraw the picture.
Scott scanned the picture of the Spook into the computer and enjoyed adding mous- taches, subtracting teeth and stretching the ears. At midnight, on the button, Scott's computer beeped.
It was Kirk. WTFO You got my message. SUBTLETY IS NOT YOUR STRONG POINT I didn't want to miss. GOTCHA.
YOU RANG. First of all, I want a better way to contact you, since I assume you won't tell me who you are. RIGHT!
I'LL CALL YOU AS SOON AS I CAN. So you're in New York? MAYBE.
MAYBE NOT. Ah, call forwarding.
I could get the address of the phone and trace you down. I DON'T THINK YOU WOULD DO THAT. And why not may I ask? CAUSE WE HAVE A DEAL. Right.
You're absolutely right. NOW THAT I'M RIGHT, WHAT'S UP? I met with the Spook. YOU DID???????? The conference was great, but I need to know more.
I've just been sniffing around the edges and I can't smell what's in the oven. WHAT ABOUT THE SPOOK?
TELL ME ABOUT IT. I have picture of him for you.
I scanned it. VERY GOOD, CLAP, CLAP. I'll send you SPOOK.PIX.
Let me know what you think. OK.
SEND AWAY. Scott chose the file and issued the command to send it to Kirk. While it was being sent they couldn't speak, and Scott learned how long it really takes to transmit a digital picture at 2400 baud.
He got absorbed in a magazine and almost missed the mes- sage on the computer. THAT'S NOT THE SPOOK!!!! Yes it is.
I met him. NO, IT'S NOT THE REAL SPOOK.
THIS GUY'S A GQ MODEL C'mon, you've got to be putting me on.
I travel 3000 miles for an impostor? I GUESS SO.
I have an idea, and you're gonna think it's nuts, I know.
But I have to ask you for a couple of favors. WHAT MAY THEY BE? The Freedom League.
I need to know as much about it as I can, without anyone knowing that I want the information.
Is that possible? OF COURSE.
WHY? Well that brings up the second favor. dGraph.
Do you own it? SURE, EVERYONE DOES.
Or I can start with a name, or an address or just a phone number and use a backwards phone book.
It's all in the computer. I can find more about you by getting a copy of the your auto registration and title from the public records.
Marriage licenses and divorces are public as well.
You can find out the damnedest things about people from their first or second or third marriage records.
Good way to determine how much money or lack thereof is floating around a healthy divorce. Of course I can easily find all traffic offenses, their disposi- tion, and any follow up litigation or settlements.
It's all in the computer.
As there are public records of all arrests, court cases, sentences and paroles.
If you've ever been to trial, the transcripts are public. Your finances can be scrupulously determined by looking up the real estate records for purchase price, terms, cash, notes and taxes on your properties.
Or, if you've ever had a bankruptcy, the sordid details are clearly spelled out for anyone's inspec- tion.
It's all in the computer. I can rapidly build an excellent profile of you, or whomever. And, it's legal.
At least they have a modicum of accountability.
However, at the same time, I believe that the Government has an inherent responsibility to protect us from invasion of privacy, and they are derelict in fulfilling that promise. If the DMV needs to know my address, I understand.
The IRS needs to know my income.
Each computer unto itself is a necessary repository to facilitate business transactions.
However, when someone begins to investigate me, crossing the boundaries of multiple data bases, without question, they are invading my privacy.
Each piece of information found about me may be insig- nificant in itself, but when combined, it becomes highly danger- ous in the wrong hands.
We all have secrets we want to remain secrets.
Under the present system, we have sacrificed our priva- cy for the expediency of the machines. I have a lawyer friend who believes that the fourth amendment is at stake.
Is it, Mr. President? This is Scott Mason, feeling Peered Upon. * * * * * Wednesday, January 13 Atlanta, Georgia First Federal Bank in Atlanta, Georgia enjoyed a reputation of treating its customers like royalty.
Southern Hospitality was the bank's middle name and the staff was trained to provide extraordinary service.
This morning though, First Federal's customers were not happy campers.
The calls started coming in before 8:00 A.M. "My account is off $10," "It doesn't add up," "My checkbook won't balance.
A few calls of this type are normal on any given day, but the phones were jammed with customer complaints.
Hun- dreds of calls streamed in constantly and hundreds more never got through the busy signals.
Dozens of customers came into the local branches to complain about the errors on their statement. An emergency meeting was held in the Peachtree Street headquar- ters of First Federal.
The president of the bank chaired the meeting.
The basic question was, What Was Going On?
It was a free for all.
Any ideas, shoot 'em out. How many calls?
About 4500 and still coming in. What are the dates of the statements?
So far within a couple of days, but who knows what we'll find.
What are you asking people to do?
Double check against their actual checks instead of the register.
Do you really think that 5000 people wake up one morning and all make the same mistakes?
Do you have any other ideas?
If they don't reconcile, bring 'em in and we'll pull the fiche. What do the computer people say?
They think there may be an error.
If the numbers are adding up wrong, how do we balance?
Do they add up in our favor?
Yessir. The bank's concerns mounted when their larger customers found discrepancies in the thousands and tens of thousands of dollars. As the number of complaints numbered well over 10,000 by noon, First Federal was facing a crisis.
The bank's figures in no way jived with their customer's records and the finger pointing began. The officers contacted the Federal Reserve Board and notified them.
The Board suggested, strongly, that the bank close for the remainder of the day and sort it out before it got worse.
First Federal did close, under the guise of installing a new computer system, a lie that might also cover whatever screwed up the statements.
They kept answering the phones, piling up the complaints and discovering that thus far there was no pattern to the errors. By mid-afternoon, they at least knew what to look for.
On every statement a few checks were listed with the incorrect amounts and therefore the balance was wrong.
For all intent and purpose, the bank had absolutely no idea whose money was whose. Working into the night the bank found that all ledgers balanced, but still the amounts in the accounts were wrong.
What are the odds of a computer making thousands of errors and having them all balance out to a net zero difference?
Statistically it was impossible, and that meant someone altered the amounts on pur- pose.
By midnight they found that the source of the error was probably in the control code of the bank's central computing center. First Federal Bank did not open for business Thursday.
Or Fri- day. First Federal Bank was not the only bank to experience profound difficulties with it's customers.
Questions proliferated but answers were hard to come by.
Without any evidence though, the government and the banks vigorously denied any such possibilities.
Rather, they developed a convoluted story of how one money transaction affects another and then another.
The domino theory of banking was explained to the public in graphs and charts, but an open skepticism prevailed. Small businesses and individual banking customers were totally shut off from access to their funds.
Tens of thousands of auto- matic tellers were turned off by their banks in the futile hope of minimizing the damage.
Estimates were that by evening, almost 5 million people had been estranged from their money. Rumors of bank collapse and a catastrophic failure of the banking system persisted.
Wire transfers and funds disbursements were ceased across all state and national borders. Panic ensued, and despite the best public relations efforts, the Treasury imposed financial sanctions on all savings and checking accounts.
If the banks opened on Friday, severe limits would be placed on access to available funds.
Checks would be returned or held until the emergency was past. Nightline addressed the banking crisis in depth.
The experts debated the efficiency of the system and that possibly an unfore- seen overload had occurred, triggering the events of the day.
I've been holding for an hour.
Muzak inter- pretations of Led Zeppelin greeted Scott Mason as he was put on hold.
They have more pass interference in the front office and on the phones than the entire NFL.
He waited. At long last, someone picked up the other end of the phone.
I am sorry to keep you waiting, Mr. Mason, it has been rather hectic as you can imagine.
Senator Nancy Deere true to form, always projected genuine sincerity. "Fine, fine, thank you, Senator.
Both my friends and enemies do." "All right, Nancy," Scott said awkwardly.
I need 15 minutes of your time about a matter of national security and it directly concerns your work on the Rickfield Committee.
She winced at the nick name that the hearing had been given.
I can assure you, Senator, ah, Nancy, that I would not be bothering you unless I was convinced of what I'm going to tell you.
If you think I'm nuts, then fine, you can throw me out." "Mr. Mason, that's enough," Nancy said kindly.
Based upon your performance at the hearing the other day, that alone is enough to make me want to shake your hand.
As for what you have to say?
I pride myself on being a good listener.
When would be convenient for you?" "The sooner the better," Scott said with obvious relief that he hadn't had to sell her. "How's . . .ah, four tomorrow?
My office?" "That's fine, perfect.
We'll see you tomorrow then." "We?
Nancy picked up the plural reference. "Yes, I am working with someone else.
Bob Burnson was pleading with Ty.
But on this one, I have no control.
You've been poking into areas that don't concern you, and I'm catching heat." "I'm working on one damn case, Bob.
But it keeps on touching this fucking blackmail fiasco and it's getting on everyone's nerves.
There's a lot more to this than ransoms and hackers and I've been having some luck.
I'll show you what I have tomorrow.
I don't know the specifics, but you've been shaking the tree.
I hope it's worth it." "It is, Bob.
I'd bet my ass on in." "You are." * * * * * Thursday, January 14 Walter Reed Medical Center "How is he doing?
Scott asked. "He's not out of the woods yet," said Dr. Sean Kelly, one of Walter Reed's hundreds of Marcus Welby look-alike staff physi- cians.
In cases like this, we operate in the dark.
The chest wound is nasty, but that's not the danger; it's the head wound. The brain is a real funny area." Tyrone's FBI identification was required to get him and Scott in to see Dr. Kelly.
As far as anybody knew, Pierre Troubleaux had been killed over the weekend in an explosion in his hospital room.
The explosion was faked at the suggestion of the manage- ment of dGraph, Inc. after Pierre's most recent assailant was murdered, despite the police assigned to guard his room.
Two of Ahmed's elite army had disguised themselves as orderlies so well that they weren't suspected when one went in the room and the other occupied the guard.
The media was having a field day. All would have gone as planned but for the fact that one of the D.C. policeman on guard was of Lebanese decent.
One ersatz orderly emerged from the room and spoke to his confederate in Arabic.
Let's get out of here." The guard understood enough Farsi and instantly drew his gun on the pair.
One of Ahmed's men tried to pull his gun but was shot and wounded before he could draw.
The other orderly started to run down the hallway pushing nurses and patients out of his way. He slid as he turned left down another corridor that ended with a huge picture window overlooking the lush hospital grounds.
He never slowed, shouting "Allah, I am yours!" as he dove through the plate glass window plummeting five floors to the concrete walk below. The wounded and armed orderly refused to speak.
We can generally say that motor skills, or memory might be affected, but to what extent is un- known.
Then there are head injuries that we can't fully explain, and Pierre's is one of them." Scott and Ty looked curiously at Dr. Kelly.
Pierre had a severe trauma to the cranium, and some of the outer layers of brain tissue were damaged when the skull was perforated.
Scott shud- dered at the distinct memory of the gore.
Since he was in a coma, we elected to do minimal repair work until he gained con- sciousness and he could give us first hand reports on his memory and other possible effects.
That's how we do it in the brain business." "So, how is he?
Scott wanted a bottom line. "He came out of a coma yesterday, and thus far, we can't find any problems that stem from the head injury." "That's amazing," said Scott.
I saw the . . ." "It is amazing," agreed Dr. Kelly, "but not all that rare. There are many references in the literature where severe brain damage was sustained without corresponding symptoms.
I once saw a half inch re-bar go through this poor guy's forehead.
We operated, removed the bar, and when he woke up he was hungry.
He had a slight a headache.
It was like nothing ever happened.
Maybe we'll be lucky." "Can we see him?
The groggy Pierre was awake when the three approached the bed.
Pierre spoke quietly, but found at least a half dozen ways to thank Scott for his ad hoc heroics.
He hadn't realized that Pierre had been conscious.
No long term karmic debt here, thought Scott. "I need to understand something," said Scott.
Pierre nodded, what? "You told me, in the midst of battle, that dGraph was sick.
I took that to mean that it contained a virus of some kind, but, well, I guess that's the question.
What did you mean?" "You're right.
Yes," Pierre said softly but firmly.
That's what I was going to say at the hearings.
I was going to confess." "Confess?
To what?" "To the viruses.
About why I did it, or, really, why I let it happen." "So you did infect your own software.
Scott demanded. Pierre shook his head back and forth.
No, I didn't do it.
I had no control." "Then who did?" "Homosoto and his people." "Homosoto?
You're out of your mind, no offense." "I wish I were.
Homosoto took over my company and killed Max." * * * * * The New Senate Office Building Washington, D.C. "The Senator will see you now," said one of Senator Deere's aides.
Scott and Tyrone entered her office which was decorated more in line with a woman's taste than the heavy furniture men prefer.
She stood to greet them. "Gentlemen," Nancy Deere said shaking their hands.
I know that you're with the New York City Times, Mr. Mason.
I took the liberty of reading some of your work.
She offered them chairs at an informal seat- ing area on one end of the large office. "And you are?" she said to Ty.
I take it this is official?" "At this point ma'am, we just need to talk, and get your reac- tions," Ty said. "He's having labor management troubles.
Scott thought that was the perfect diplomatic description. "I see," Nancy said.
So right now this meeting isn't happening." "Kind of like that," Ty said. "And him?
She said cocking her head at Scott. "It's his story, I'm just his faithful sidekick with a few of the pieces." "Well then," Nancy said amused with the situation.
Please, I am all ears.
She and Tyrone looked at Scott, waiting. How the hell was he going to tell a U.S.
Senator that an organ- ized group of anarchistic hackers and fanatic Moslem Arabs were working with a respected Japanese industrialist and building computer viruses.
He couldn't figure out any eloquent way to say it, so he just said it, straight, realizing that the summa- tion sounded one step beyond absurd.
All things considered, Scott thought, she took it very well. "I assume you have more than a headline?
Senator Deere said after a brief, polite pause. Scott proceeded to describe everything that he had learned, the hackers, Kirk, Spook, the CMR equipment, his articles being pulled, the First State and Sidneys situation.
He told her about the anonymous documents he had thus far been unable to use. Except for one which he would use today.
I fought to get into the Bureau, and I made it through the good and the bad.
And, I always knew where I stood.
Akin, I guess to the political winds that change every four years.
But now, there's something wrong.
Nancy tilted her head waiting for Ty to con- tinue. He spoke carefully and slowly.
I have never been the paranoid type; I'm not conspiracy minded.
But I do find it strange that I get so much invisible pressure to lay off a case that appears to be both global in its reach and dangerous in its effects.
It's almost like I'm not supposed to find out what's happening.
I get no cooperation from my upstairs, CI, the CIA.
NSA has been predictably obnoxious when I started asking questions." "So why come to me?
You're the police." "Are you aware that Pierre Troubleaux is alive?
Scott asked Nancy, accidentally cutting off Tyrone. "Alive?
She too, had heard the news. They told her they had spoken to Pierre and that his death had been a ruse to protect him.
The reports on Pierre's prognosis brightened Nancy attitude. "But, it's not all good news.
It appears, that every single copy of dGraph, that's a . . ." "I know dGraph," she said quickly.
It's part of the job. Couldn't live without it." "Well, ma'am, it's infected with computer viruses.
According to Pierre, the head of OSO Industries, Taki Homosoto, had Max Jones, co-founder of dGraph killed and has effectively held Pierre hostage since." The impact of such an overwhelming accusation defied response. Nancy Deere's jaw fell limp.
That is the most unbelievable, incredible . . .I don't know what to say." "I have no reason not to believe what Pierre is saying.
Not yet," said Tyrone. "There are a few friends of mine working to see if dGraph really is infected.
Scott whistled to indicate the seriousness of the implications. "What, Mr. Mason, what if it is?
She thirsted for more hard information. "I'm no computer engineer, Senator, er, Nancy, but I'm not stupid either.
Pierre said that at least 500 different viruses have been installed in dGraph since Homosoto took over.
A rough guess is that there are over four million copies of dGraph.
Maybe double that for pirated copies.
Nancy main- tained rapt attention as Scott continued .
Scott sounded certain and final. "I can't comprehend this, this is too incredible.
Senator Deere shook her head in disbelief.
What will happen?" "Pierre doesn't know what the viruses do, he's not a programmer. He's just a figurehead," Scott explained.
He slid forward in his chair.
We know that Scott's hacker's name is Miles Foster and he's tied up with the Amsterdam group, but we don't how yet.
We also know that he is ex-NSA and was a communications and security expert out at the Fort.
Nancy understood the implication. "When I asked for information on Foster from NSA I was stone- walled.
I assume that I somehow pushed a button and that now they're retaliating.
But, for the life of me, I don't know why." Tyrone shook his head in frustration.
It doesn't make any sense." "At any rate," Tyrone said waving off the lack of cooperation, "I checked into his background since he left the Agency in '87.
He went freelance, became a consultant, a Beltway Bandit.
Nancy Deere nodded that she understood but she listened with a poker face.
We have him traveling to Japan shortly after his resigna- tion, and then several times over the next few months.
He has been to Japan a total of 17 times.
Since his credit cards show no major purchases in Japan, I assume that he was somebody's guest.
The tickets purchased in his name were bought from a Tokyo travel agency, but we can't determine who paid for them." "Seventeen times?" asked the Senator. "Yes ma'am.
Curious." "How do you know what he used his credit cards for, Mr. Duncan?" she asked dubiously. "We have our means.
I can't get into that now.
Tyrone held the party line which meant not confirming or denying that the FBI could access any consumer and credit data base in the world.
In fact though, the National Crime Information Center is linked to hundreds of computers world wide over the Computer Applications Communications Network.
They can generate a complete profile on any citizen within minutes of the request.
Including all travel, credit card and checking activities.
Scott found this power, entrusted to a few non-elected and non-accountable civil servants unconscionable. "I have no doubt," she said caustically. "There's more.
Tyrone spoke without the benefit of notes which impressed Nancy.
The case concerning Max Jones' death is being reopened.
It seems that the former Sheriff in San Mateo county was voted out and the new one is more than willing to assist in making his predecessor look bad.
Despondence veiled her normally affable countenance as she grappled internally with the implications of the revelations. "Senator," Scott said as he handed her a file labeled General Young: GOVT-108.
I was wondering if this might have any bearing on the tone of the hearings?
It's pretty obvious that you and Rickfield don't see eye to eye." Nancy took the file cautiously, meeting Scott's eyes, looking for ulterior motives.
She found none and scanned the first page that described the illicit relationship between General Young and Senator Merrill Rickfield.
Her brow furrowed the more she read. "Is this confirmed?" she asked quietly. "No ma'am," Scott said.
I read it this weekend and added up two and two and, well, it does raise some questions." "I should say it does.
Ones that I'm sure he will not be anxious to answer." * * * * * 6 P.M., Washington, D.C. "Who the hell are you pissing off and why?
Yet, at the same time, the story carried a wisp of the implausible.
But, then, why was he getting heat that Ty was peeking under the wrong logs? "What are you planning?
Bob asked them both. "Scott's going after Homosoto," said Tyrone.
See if he can get a few answers." "And," Scott added, "the Max Jones angle.
I'll be on that, too." "Right.
I sure would like to have a chat with Mr. Foster.
And that's exactly what this smells of.
From a politi- cal angle, it reeks, and by all rights I should make you back off.
Then we'd have him doing the work while our asses stay clean.
A perfect case of CYA." "But?
Tyrone suggested. "But," Bob said, "just because you're paranoid doesn't mean someone's not out to get you.
It smells like pure 100% Grade A Government approved horse shit here, but I'll be fucked if know why CI is such a problem.
They normally love the espionage stuff." "They think it's a crock.
Said we should stick to tabloid crimes," Tyrone said defiantly. "Unless," Scott thought out loud.
Ty and Bob stopped to listen. "Unless, the NSA has something to hide about Miles Foster.
Could they exert that kind of pressure?
He asked Bob. "The NSA can do almost anything it wants, and it has tremendous political strength.
Listen, I'll cover you as long as I can, but, after that, it may get too thick for my blood.
I hope you understand." "Yeah, I know.
His first live-report did not bode well; the FDR Drive was tied up very early; might be a rough commute. He crossed 42nd.
St. heading west to the Hudson River and noticed that there were already two accidents; one at 5th.
Avenue and one at Broadway.
He listened in on the police band for details to pass on to his audience. At 5:50 A.M., Skyway-I reported traffic piling up at the 72nd. Street and Riverside Drive exit of the decrepit and ancient West Side Highway.
And another accident on West End Avenue and 68th. Street.
Jim flew east across Manhattan to 125th.
Street where the Triborough Bridge dumps tens of thousands of cars every morning onto southbound 2nd.
He listened to the police calls and heard them say the accidents were caused because all of the traffic lights were green. Every traffic light in Manhattan was green according to the police.
Jim reported the apparent problem on the air and as many accidents as he could; there were too many accidents to name.
He passed on the recommendations of the police: Best Stay Home. By 6:30 two additional helicopters were ordered to monitor the impending crisis as the city approached real gridlock.
Police helicopters darted about while the media listened in on the conversations from their police band radios. At 7:00 the Traffic Commissioner was called at home, and told that he shouldn't bother trying to come to work.
The streets were at a standstill.
Thousands of extra police units were dispersed throughout the city in a dubious attempt to begin the process of managing the snarl that engulfed the city. Scott Mason exited from the 43rd.
Street and Vanderbilt side of Grand Central Station and was met with a common sight - a massive traffic jam.
He walked the one block to Fifth Avenue and it gradually dawned on him that traffic wasn't moving at all.
At 8:15 A.M. it shouldn't be that bad.
At that thought his stomach felt like he had been thrown from an airplane.
The traffic computers. * * * * * Washington, D.C. Sonja Lindstrom watched the New York based Today show from the kitchen counter in her upscale Reston, Virginia townhouse.
What a mess, she thought.
She knew how bad traffic could be in New York even when the lights worked.
A news flash pre-empted an interview with Joan Embry from the San Diego Zoo.
New York was entering panic mode, and the repercus- sions would be world wide.
Especially with the banks closed. The New York radio stations linked up with the Emergency Broad- cast System so they could communicate with the half million drivers who had nowhere to go.
Bridges and tunnels into Manhat- tan were closed and cars and busses on major arteries were being forced to exit onto side streets.
Schools, shops and non-essen- tial government services were shut down for the day. The Governor of New York declared a state of emergency and the National Guard was called to assist the local police.
Sonja compared New Yorkers' reactions to this crisis to the way they deal with a heavy snowfall when the city stops.
Pretty much like any other day.
No big deal, go to a bar, good excuse for a party.
She giggled to herself as the phone rang. "Hello?" "Good morning, Sonja?" "Oh, hi, Stephanie.
Kind of early for you, isn't it?" Sonja sipped her coffee. "It is, I know, but I had to call you," Stephanie said quickly. "Something wrong?
Sonja asked. "I think so, maybe.
Wrong enough that I had to tell you." Stephanie sighed audibly.
You don't have to play up to Scott Mason any more.
I'm getting out." "Out of what?
Sonja said with confusion. "I've learned a few things that I don't like, and I've kinda got hung up on Miles, and, well, I feel funny about taking the money anymore.
Especially since Miles doesn't know about the arrange- ments.
You know what I mean?" "Yes.
With Scott it bothered me a little.
So I made believe I was on the Dating Game.
Sonja knew exactly what Stephanie meant.
Hey, I have an idea.
Why don't the four of us get together sometime.
I'm sure the boys have a lot in common." "Scott should be down tonight." "That should be fine.
We were going to dinner anyway.
Maybe we can put this behind us." * * * * * New York City The traffic engineers frantically searched for the reason that the signals had all turned green.
They reinitialized the switch- es and momentarily thousands of green lights flashed red and yellow, but there was no relief from the gridlock.
Computer technicians rapidly determined that the processor control code was 'glitching', as they so eloquently described the current disaster.
A global error, they admitted, but correctable, in time.
The computers compare the date, the time, anticipated traffic flow, weather conditions and adjust the light patterns and sequences accordingly.
Twenty minutes later, just as system wide synchronization was achieved, every light turned green again.
Privately, though, Gracie Mansion instructed the police to find out who was responsible for the dangerous software and they in turn called the Secret Service.
The media congratulated the NYPD, and the population of the City in coping with the crisis.
Was he calling 17 hours into the next day, or was he 7 hours and one day behind?
All he knew was that he needed an international clock to figure out when to call Japan during their business hours.
Once he was connected to the OSO switchboard, he had to pass scrutiny by three different opera- tors, one of them male, and suffer their terrible indignities to the English language.
He told Homosoto's secretary, whose Eng- lish was acceptable, that he was doing a story on dGraph and needed a few quotes.
It must have been slow in Tokyo as he was patched through almost immediately. "Yes?" "Mr. Homosoto?" "Yes." "This is Scott Mason, from the New York City Times.
I am calling from New York.
How are you today?" "Fine, Mr. Mason.
Homosoto was obviously the gratuitous sort when it came to the press. "We are preparing to run a story in which Pierre Troubleaux accuses you of murdering his partner Max Jones.
He also says that dGraph software is infected with destructive programs. Would you like to comment, sir?
Scott asked as innocently as possible under the circumstances. No answer. "Sir?
Scott strained his ear. "Mr. Troubleaux is alive?" "I can't answer that.
Do you have any comment, sir?
On anything?" "I have nothing to say.
The phone went dead. Guilty as sin.
A non-denial denial. **************************************************************** Chapter 25 Saturday, January 16 Tokyo, Japan Dressed as business-like on the weekend as during the week, Taki Homosoto sat at his regal techno-throne overlooking the Tokyo skyline from his 66th floor vista.
Years of prepa- ration and millions of dollars later, it was time.
Perhaps a little earlier than he would have liked, but the result would be the same anyway. The first call Homosoto made was to Ahmed Shah in his Columbia University office.
Ahmed responded with his PRG code as the computer requested. <<<<<<CONNECTION>>>>>> GOOD YOU ARE THERE. I can't get too far without my man-servant. I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR YOUR INVALUABLE ASSISTANCE.
It took two martyrs, one is being tortured by the FBI, but he has Allah to guide him. GOOD.
CAN YOU DO MORE? I am at your disposal.
This is not the war I expected, but I serve Allah's will, and he is using you as his instrument of revenge. THE BANK CARDS.
THEY ARE FOR YOU AND YOUR PEOPLE TO FUND YOUR EFFORTS. You speak strangely.
Is something wrong? NO, EVERYTHING IS ACCORDING TO PLAN.
I EXPECT YOU WILL FULFILL MY WISHES. Of course, that is the arrangement.
But what has changed? NOTHING.
He found that he learned American colloquialisms best from American television.
They brutalized the language under the guise of entertainment.
His other computer, an AST 386SX with 330 MB of storage was the one his recruits called with reports.
The 25 Sir George's of his army called twice a day.
Once to get their assignments and once to send him the results of their efforts. They didn't have to call long distance, though, and never knew that Alex ran his part of Homosoto's operation from Europe.
Sir George and his hidden compatriots used their untraceable cellular phones and merely called a local phone number within their area code.
Alex's communications group had set up a widely diverse network of call forwarding telephones to make tracing the calls impossible.
They exploited all of the common services that helped make his and Homosoto's armies invisible. MR ALEX. Yes, sir. THE TIME HAS COME. So soon? YES.
MONDAY IS GROUNDHOG DAY. Monday?
With no warning? HAVE I EVER BEEN WRONG? No THEN DO AS I SAY.
PLEASE. Alex started at the word 'please'.
He had never seen Homosoto ever use it before. Of course.
As you wish. WHAT ARE THE FIRST TARGETS OF THE GROUNDHOGS? It is complex. TELL ME! The reservations systems of American, Delta, Pan Am and TWA.
It will shut down air travel for weeks. GOOD.
AND? The NBC, CBS and ABC communications computers.
We have people working in each network.
Plus, we have land based transmitters to garble and override network satellite transmis- sions.
Quite a neat trick actually.
I'm impressed with the technology. I DON'T CARE ABOUT YOUR TECHNOLOGY.
WHO ELSE? The list is long.
Groundhogs are at the Home Shopping Network, American Express and other credit card companies.
The Center for Disease Control, Hospitals, the IRS, Insurance Companies.
Within a week, their computers will be empty and useless. THAT IS WHAT I WANT TO HEAR.
THIS ENDEAVOR HAS BEEN MOST PROFITA- BLE FOR YOU, HAS IT NOT? Very much so.
It is appreciated. THEN YOU WILL NOT MIND IF I INCREASE YOUR PAYMENT. No. Why? YOU MUST MAINTAIN THE SANCTITY OF OUR ARRANGEMENTS.
I assume I ask no questions? YOU KNOW MORE THAN YOU SHOULD, BUT YOU ARE A MAN OF HONOR AS LONG AS I PAY THE MOST.
THAT IS TRUE. At least you know where I stand. WILL YOU CONTINUE? Consider it done.
MORE THAN ENOUGH. <<<<<<CONNECTION TERMINATED>>>>>> * * * * * He couldn't believe it.
Scott had just watched Nightline, and who was the guest?
She badly needed English lessons not to mention a brain.
He was relieved when the call came. WTFO? I'm here, Kirk.
You're two minutes late. PICKY PICKY. I had to sit through a half hour of Madonna explaining why she masterbates on MTV. LIFE'S A CESSPOOL.
THEN YOU DIE. You sound happy tonight. I'M NOT EXACTLY PLEASED, IF THAT'S WHAT YOU MEAN. What have you got? WE'VE LEARNED A LOT.
FIRST OF ALL, DGRAPH IS INFECTED. No shit. PROFANITY.
BUT THAT'S NOT THE HALF OF IT. Continue, oh messenger of doom. THERE'S MORE ABOUT THE FREEDOM BOARDS.
I THOUGHT YOU MIGHT BE INTERESTED IN WHAT WE FOUND. I'm hanging on your every byte. GOOD.
OVER 1600 MEMBER BBS'S HERE AND IN CANADA. Is that large? THAT MAKES THEM A FULL FLEDGED NATIONAL NETWORK.
THE FREEDOM LEAGUE SOFTWARE IS FILLED WITH VIRUSES TOO. You've got to be kidding.
A million people in on it? NO, NOT AT ALL.
COULD BE JUST A FEW. A few?
How many are a few? QUIET!
FREEDOM GIVES THEM EVERYTHING BUT A COMPUTER AND A MODEM. And in exchange, they have to sell Freedom Software. NOT EXACTLY SELL, SHAREWARE IS FREE TO DISTRIBUTE, IN THEORY ONLY A FEW PEOPLE MAY EVEN KNOW ABOUT THE INFECTIONS.
WHOEVER IS DESIGNING THE PROGRAMS HAS TO BE IN ON IT. And the franchisers, of course!
They set up their own distribu- tion of viruses. I WOULD GUESS THAT ABOUT 100 OF THE FREEDOM BBS'S KNOW ABOUT THE INFECTIONS. Why, how do you know that? GOOD GUESS.
WHEN FREEDOM STARTED UP BACK IN '88, IT HAD 100 LOCATIONS. So it was staged, set up? MUSTA BEEN.
A GOOD BBS TAKES ABOUT $10,000 TO GET GOING. A million bucks.
Chump change. FOR WHO? Just a friend.
What else? THEY'VE DISTRIBUTED MILLIONS OF PROGRAMS.
MILLIONS. Is every one infected? I GUESS SO.
EVERY ONE WE'VE LOOKED AT IS. Who else knows. NEMO, PHREAK PHRIENDS.
THEIR REP IS SHOT. Aren't you worried about a repeat performance on your computers? NO. I MOVED WHAT WAS LEFT OF MY EQUIPMENT AND WE SWITCHED TO CELLULAR CALL FORWARDING.
BUT I APPRECIATE THE CONCERN. I'll call you.
Therefore DGI is offering free uninfected copies of dGraph to every registered user. Industry reaction was strong, but surprisingly non-critical of DGI's dilemma.
In general the reaction was one of shock and disbelief.
If this is true," said one source, "the amount of damage done will be incalculable.
He went on to say that since the virus problem has been largely ignored, very few businesses have any sort of defensive measures in place.
Estimates are that large companies have the most to lose when the dGraph Virus explodes. The major software manufacturers came to DGI's support saying, ". . .it was bound to happen sooner or later.
We're just glad it didn't happen to us.
According to Ralph Potter of the International Virus Asso- ciation, "This is a disaster of unfathomable proportions.
It could not be much worse than if DOS had been carrying a virus for years.
The designers knew what they were doing, waiting so long before the viruses were triggered to go off.
The ultimate Trojan Horse." The National Computer Systems Laboratory at the National Insti- tute of Standards and Technology issued a terse statement saying that they would soon publish recommended procedures to minimize the effects of the current virus crisis.
Leading software industry prophets were quoted, all taking credit for warning the computer industry that such massive assaults were predictable and prevent- able.
They blamed the government and computer manufacturers for laxidazical handling of a serious problem that could have been prevented.
Doug tore it off the printer and raced it over to Scott. "I believe this will be of interest to you . . .
Doug chuckled as Scott read the wire. Tokyo, Japan: Taki Homosoto, the billionaire founder and chairman of OSO Industries, was found dead this afternoon in his opulent Tokyo office.
According to police and company spokespersons, Mr. Homosoto died by his own hands in tradi- tional Japanese warrior fashion; hari-kari.
His body was found curled up in a pool of blood with the ritualistic sword penetrating his abdomen protruding from his lower back. Police say they discovered a note on his person that ex- plained the apparent suicide.
The letter is believed to have been hand written by Mr. Homosoto.
The contents of that letter, as released by the Tokyo police follow: Honorable Friends, I now resign as Chairman of OSO Industries.
My time is over. For almost 50 years I have waited to see the United States and its people suffer as my people did during those terrible days in August.
The United States gave our people no warn- ing, and tens of thousands of innocent women and children died without purpose.
I found it hard to believe, indeed incredible, that the greatest military power on Earth was so foolish.
I learned that there were no defenses for the computers that run your country.
How unfortunate for you. It was shown me how to execute the plans which invade the very bastions of Western Imperialism; and I have succeeded admirably.
You will not recover for years, as we did not after your hideous attack upon our land. By the time you read this, I will be dead and happy.
My creations will have taken hold, and unshakeable from their roots, will spread chaos and distrust.
This is the world's first computer war and I have waged it and I will win it. Retaliate!
Retaliate, if you wish, if you can; but you will not, you cannot.
They had nothing to do with it.
I will be dead and there is no double jeopardy in death. You have nothing to say, and nothing to do in response.
As we did not after your fire-bombs landed.
We could say nothing. Helplessness is a terrible feeling.
It is one of loneli- ness, solitude in a personal hell which your people shall suffer as they learn to live without the luxuries of tech- nology.
You will pay for your ancestor's mistakes. To the memory and honor of my family. Taki Homosoto * * * * * Scott Mason called Tyrone Duncan immediately. "I know," said Tyrone, sounding out of breath.
We're on it. Pierre's getting additional protection.
It turns out that Mr. Homosoto isn't as pure as the driven snow like he pretends to be." "How do you mean?
Scott asked. "Off the record." "Background.
The negotiation on press terms was complete. "All right, but be careful.
It seems that since the 1940's Mr. Homosoto has been performing some very lucrative services for our friends at the Pentagon.
He has some influential friends in Congress and uses an assortment of lobbying firms to promote his interests." "What's so unusual about that?
Asked Scott. "Nothing, until you see that certain Congressmen got very wealthy when OSO Industries built plants in their districts.
Heavy PAC contributions, blind distribution of small contributing funds.
It also appears that he regularly entertained high Pentagon offi- cials in the finest fashion.
Influ- ence pedaling and bribery.
We have traced a path from Tokyo to the Pentagon that has resulted in OSO subsidiaries receiving large non-classified government contracts.
That's a de facto standard for all agencies." "I never thought about that.
Everyone in the government uses it." "Just like the private sector.
I'm on my way to have a little talk with your Mr. Foster.
I don't believe in coincidences." "Good, where?
This is official now, and I can't have a civilian . . ." "Bullshit!
Scott yelled into the phone.
Don't you get GI on me.
I gave him to you.
And I might have something else." "What's that?" "What if I told you that the Freedom League is part of it?
And that it's being run by foreign nationals." "So what?" asked Tyrone. "How far did you check into the van driver's background?
Scott offered tidbits that he thought relevant. "Yeah . . ." "When are you meeting Foster?" Tyrone thought carefully about Scott's words.
Listen, I have to get a warrant anyway.
It'll probably take till tomorrow." Tyrone paused for the subtle offer to sink in to Scott.
Gotta go." One hell of a guy, thought Scott.
If it ever got out that Tyrone worked with the media like this, he would be immediately retired, if not possibly prosecuted.
But nobody else was doing anything, and Scott had given them Foster on a silver platter.
He would save the Freedom League story for the moment. * * * * * The Motorola STU-III secure phone rang on the credenza behind Marvin Jacobs desk.
Jacobs asked. "Homosoto is dead." "I heard," Jacobs said.
It sounded clean." "Very pro.
Won't be a problem." * * * * * Scott saw the galley for the afternoon paper.
The headline, in 3 inch letters shocked him: RICKFIELD RESIGNS He immediately called Senator Nancy Deere. "I was going to call you," she said.
I guess you've heard." "Yes, what happened?
He shouted excitedly over the rumble of the high speed train. "I guess I should take the blame," Nancy said.
When I confront- ed the Senator this morning, he just stared at me.
I begged him for an explanation, but he sat there, expres- sionless.
He finally got up and left." "That's it?
What happens now?" "I see the President," she said. "May I ask why?" "Off the record," she insisted. "Sure.
What's one more source I can't name. "I heard about the resignation from the White House.
He said the President was very concerned and wanted a briefing from my perspective.
He's beginning to feel some heat on the computer crimes and doesn't have a clue.
I figure they need to get up to speed real fast." "It's about time," Scott said out loud.
They've been ignoring this forever." "And," Senator Deere added, "they want you there, too.
Tomorrow, 9A.M." The hair on Scott's neck stood on end.
A command performance from the White House? "Why, why me? "You seem to know more than they do.
They think you're wired into the hackers and Homosoto." "I'll be there," Scott managed to get out.
What do I do . . .?" "Call Musgrave's office at the White House." "I bet the paper's going nuts.
I didn't tell them I had left or where I was going," Scott laughed. Scott called Doug who had half of the paper looking high and low for him.
You made the big time, huh kid?
What world shattering events precipitated this mag- nanimous call?
In fact he was proud.
And no, he wouldn't tell more than was in print, not without calling Doug or Higgins - at any hour. Doug sounded relieved when Scott volunteered that there would be no hotel bills.
The story of the year and he's counting pennies.
God, Doug was a good editor. Scott's stories on computer crime and specifically the dGraph situation aroused national attention.
However, Scott was warned that as the story became major national news, the exclusivity that he and the Times had enjoyed would be in jeopardy.
Get it while the getting is hot. No problem. It just so happened Scott knew Miles Foster personally. * * * * * "Sonja?
Can you recommend a good hotel?
He jibed at her while packing away his laptop computer for the trip to Washington.
He called her and was going to leave a message, but instead he was rewarded with her answering the phone. "Chez Lindstrom is nice, but the rates are kind of high." "King or twin beds?
Room service?" "E, all of the above," she laughed.
Want me to pick you up at National?" "Naw, I'll take the train from work.
I may need to buy a few things when I get there, like a suitcase and a wardrobe.
He pleaded for understanding, not realiz- ing she was kidding him.
He couldn't tell her why he was being so circumspect.
Nothing about the meeting. "Well," she said dejectedly, "I guess it's O.K.
Scott brightened. "If we can have a couple of friends over for dinner.
There's someone I'd like you to meet." * * * * * "Holy shit," Scott said as Sonja opened her apartment door and admitted Miles and the stunning Stephanie. Miles stopped in his tracks and stared at Scott.
What's the deal?" he said accusingly. "This is Sonja Lindstrom and her friend Scott Mason," Stephanie said.
She still had her arm wrapped around Miles' arm. "It's just that, well, we've met, and I was just kind of sur- prised, that's all.
He extended a hand at Scott.
Good to see you again.
This was going to be an interesting evening. "Yeah, ditto," Scott said, confused.
I thought you were coming back?
He was speaking of Amsterdam. "Well, I was a little occupied, if you recall," Miles said refer- ring to the triplets in Amsterdam.
And business forced me to depart earlier than I had anticipated." "Where?
Scott awaited a reaction by Miles, but was disappointed when there was none. Stephanie and Sonja wondered how the two had already met; it was their job to report such things to Alex, but it really didn't matter any more.
They were quitting. The first round of drinks was downed quickly and the tension in the room abated slightly.
The four spoke casually, albeit some- what guardedly.
The harmless small talk was only a prelude to Scott's question when the girls stepped into the kitchen.
Per- haps they left the room on purpose. "Listen," Scott whispered urgently to Miles.
I know who you are, and that you're tied up with Homosoto and the computer nutsiness that's going on everywhere.
You have a lot of people looking for you and we only have a few seconds," Scott said glancing up at the kitchen door.
I see the situation as fol- lows.
You get to tell your side of the story to the authorities in private, or you can tell me first and I put it in tomorrow's paper.
This may be your only chance to get your side of the story out.
All of sudden, you're big news.
What'll it be?" Scott spoke confidently and waited for Miles' answer. Miles intently scanned every inch of Scott's face in minute detail.
You're damn right I'll talk.
First of all, it's a lie," Miles hissed.
If they're coming after me, I have to protect myself.
Can't trust a fucking slant eye, can you?" The girls returned with fresh drinks and sat down on the white leather couch.
Miles and Scott continued their discussion. "What happened?
Miles looked over at the stunning Sonja, stripping her naked with his stare and then at Stephanie who had caught his stare. "It's very simple," Miles said after a while.
His dimples deep- ened while he forced a smile.
He nodded his head as he looked at his three companions.
How the hell can I defend myself against accusations from the grave.
And you," he point- ed at Scott.
You've kept the fear going.
You picked up the scent and you've been writing about it for months. Setting his stage for him.
After you sensitize the public, he commits suicide.
He used you." "And then, you two," Miles said to Stephanie and Sonja.
You could be out in the cold in days.
Bet you didn't know you were in on it.
Am I right?" "In on what?
Scott asked Miles and Sonja. "Tell him," Miles said to Sonja.
I've never met you, but I can guess what you do for a living." "She's a PR person," interjected Scott. "Go on, tell him, or I will," Miles said again. Sonja's eyes pleaded with Miles to stop it.
I'll do it in my own way, in time.
Scott glowered at Miles' words and awaited a response from Sonja.
How could he distrust her?
But what did Miles mean? The front door bell rang and broke the intense silence.
It rang again as Sonja went to answer. "Yes, he's here," she whispered. The door opened and Tyrone Duncan came into the room while anoth- er man stood at the door.
Tyrone walked up to Miles.
Scott was in absolute awe.
Ty had said tomorrow. "Mr. Foster?
Tyrone asked without pleasantries. "Yeah," Miles said haughtily. "FBI," Ty said flashing his badge.
You're under arrest for trafficking in stolen computer access cards and theft of serv- ice.
Tyrone took a breath and waved a piece of paper in the air.
We searched your apartment and found telephone company access codes that . . . " "I want to call my lawyer," Miles interrupted calmly.
His arrogance was unnerving; this wasn't the same Miles that Scott had known in Amsterdam.
There, he was just another misguided but well-intentioned techno-anarchist who was more danger to himself than anyone else.
But now, as Tyrone read a list of charges against him, mostly arcane FBI domain inter- state offenses, Miles took on a new character.
A worldly crimi- nal whom the FBI was arresting for potential terrorist activi- ties. "And those are for starters, Mister," Tyrone said after reading off a list of penal violations by code number.
Mirandizing was one of the steps. Scott Mason's adrenaline flowed with intensity.
Did he ever have a story to tell now!
He was present, coinci- dentally, during the arrest of Miles Foster. Front page. "I want to call my lawyer," Miles repeated. "Make it quick," said Tyrone.
Miles rapidly dialed a number from memory. Miles turned his back on Tyrone and the others and spoke calmly into the phone. "It's me." Pause. "It's me.
Pause. "A laundry list of charges." Disinterest.
Pause. "Had to happen, sooner or later, yeah," Miles said happily. Pause. "I gotta dinner party.
I don't want to miss it.
He smiled at Stephanie and blew a kiss.
Miles hung up. Miles turned to Tyrone and held his wrists out together in front of him.
Miles, the Spook, ever so calm, cool and collected.
Not a blush. Who had he called?
That was the question that bothered Scott throughout the rest of the evening. * * * * * The White House, Washington, D.C. The President looked grim.
The normally affable Republican had won his second term by a landslide and had maintained unprece- dented popularity.
In fact, the recession was eased due in part to all of their efforts as well the new Europe.
The Presi- dent was rewarded, ultimately, with the credit for renewing the economy almost glitch-free. But the President was still grim.
America was again at war, and only a handful of people in the upper echelons of the Government even knew about it.
If Kirk and Homosoto were right, millions of computers would experience the electronic equivalent of sudden cardiac arrest in less than two weeks. The Times, Higgins and Doug agreed to the relationship but added their own working caveats.
In order to treat Kirk as a protected source, they pretended he was a personal contact.
Instead of reporter's notes, Scott maintained an open file which recorded the entirety of their computer conversations.
Again, Higgins felt he had solid position, but he did ask Scott to ask Kirk's permission to save the conversa- tions on disk.
Dopey really wanted to asked the Pope a few questions.
Do you have pretty nuns?" "Of course we do, Dopey.
Mr. Pope, do you have fat ugly nuns?" "Why, yes, Dopey, we do.
And I bet, Mr. Pope, that you have some tall skinny nuns, too.
Do you have nuns in Chicago?
Yes, Dopey, we have nuns in Chicago?
And in San Francisco and New York?
Yes, Dopey." "And do you have nuns in Africa and Australia and in France?" "Yes, Dopey.
Dopey took a second to think and finally asked, "Mr. Pope?
Do you have nuns in Antarc- tica?
No, Dopey, I'm sorry, we don't have any nuns in Antarc- tica.
The other six dwarfs immediately broke out into a laugh- ing song: "Dopey fucked a penguin.
Dopey fucked a penguin." HA HA HA HA HA!!!
HA HA. Facetious? NO, THAT'S GREAT.
IS YOUR RECORDER ON? You bet.
What have you got? MORE THAN I WISH I DID.
ARE YOU REALLY GOING TO PRINT IT ALL? Daily.
Our science section has been expanded to every day from just Tuesday.
I have all the room I need. YOU MIGHT MAKE ME RECONSIDER MY OPINION OF THE MEDIA. Just the facts, ma'am.
Just the facts. HA HA.
EACH ONE WILL HAVE TO BE DONE INDIVIDUALLY. I suggest we start with the dGraph viruses.
You said 54, right? SO FAR. Send me the file and I still may have time to get it into tomor- row's paper.
They usually leave a little room. I'LL SEND DGVIRUS.RPT.
DGraph is now known to contain at least 54 different viruses, each designed to exe- cute different forms of damage to your computer. According to computer security experts there are two ways to deal with the present virus crisis.
The best way to make sure that an active security system is in place in your computer.
Recommenda- tions vary, but it is generally agreed by most experts that security, especially in the highly susceptible desktop and laptop personal computers, should be hardware based.
This technique is minimally effec- tive for many reasons: Mutating viruses cause the signature to change every time it infects another program, rendering the virus unidentifiable.
There is no way to be sure that all strains have been identified.
Every wire service and news service in the country picked up the story and reprinted it in their papers and magazines.
Within 24 hours, everyone who owned or used a computer had some weapons with which available to him.
If they chose to believe in the danger. * * * * * Wednesday, January 20 The White House "So what about this Mason character?
Secretary of State Quinton Chambers asked challengingly.
The President's inner circle was again meeting to discuss the government's reaction to the impend- ing chaos that Mr. Homosoto posthumously promised.
The pre-dawn hours were viewed as an ideal time to have upper level meetings without the front door scrutiny of the press. Phil Musgrave pulled a folder from the stack in his lap and opened it.
Born 1953, he had an Archie Bunker for a father but he came out a brain - IQ of 170.
Against Nam, who wasn't; he protested some, but not a leader.
No real trouble with the law; couple of demonstration arrests.
City College, fared all right, and then set up his own company, worked in the defense industry writing manuals until he hit it big and sold out.
The news business is new to him, but he's getting noticed fast." "Is he a risk?" "The FBI hasn't completed their investigation," said Phil.
If he is a risk, it's buried deep.
He will maintain source protection, and I don't think it matters right now.
Maybe later." "What about the FBI friend?" "The FBI is aware of it, and views it favorably.
Duncan's rela- tionship has been exclusively personal until recently.
It seems to serve both sides well." "So you're saying he's working for us and not knowing it?" "He probably knows it, and probably, like most of the media, doesn't care.
His job is to report the news.
It just so happens that we read the same newspapers.
Let's leave him alone." The President held up his hand to signal an end to the debate between State policy and the White House Chief of Staff.
Unless anyone can give me a good goddammed reason to fix something that seems to be working," he said, "let Mason do his job and let us do ours.
He looked around the Oval Office for comments or dissent.
It was a minor point and nobody thought it significant enough to pursue.
Henry Kennedy was expected to know more than anyone else at this point.
With the combined help of the NSA, CIA, FBI and international contacts, the National Security Advisor was privy to an incredible range of information.
He was never told direct- ly that U.S. agents regularly penetrated target computers as part of any investigation, or that they listened in on computers and communications to gather information.
But Henry Kennedy preferred it this way; not to officially know where he got his data. Professional deniability. "We also have every reason to believe that he used technical talent outside of OSO," Kennedy continued.
Perhaps as many as thirty or forty people involved." The inner circle whistled.
That's a conspira- cy," commented Quinton. "I agree with Quinton.
What I think we need to do here," said Phil Musgrave to the others in the room and the President, "is expand our previous definition of terrorism.
Doesn't a threat to international stability and the economic well being of this country constitute terrorism?
He gazed into each of the listen- er's eyes then said, "In my mind it clearly does.
He referred to the work at the Department of State which, since the Iraqi War, had clearly expanded the operational definition of terror- ism. "There's more," Henry said soberly.
Four months ago the FBI was inundated with reports of blackmail.
None materialized but still take up a great deal of manpower and resources.
Classified defense technology is used to shut down the Stock Exchange and other major businesses.
Two months ago an Irani foreign national was killed in New York.
He was driving a vehicle which contained sophisticated computer monitoring equipment." "Has anything developed on that front?" the President asked.
I remember reading about that.
It was a tragedy." "It was," agreed Phil Musgrave. "We had the FBI, the CI division take apart what was left of the van and we began a cross trace," Henry pulled out yet another file from his stack.
It seems that during a two month period in 1988, a disproportionate number of identical Ford Econoline vans were paid for in cash.
As far as the dealer is concerned, the customer disappeared.
Unless they're using stolen plates, they- 're part of the DMV system.
The New York van was registered to a non-existent address.
Roadblocked." "And don't forget the First State incident, INTERNET, the FAA radar systems," Quinton Chambers said to the President.
He listed a long series of computer malfunctions over the prior 60 days.
It appears at this point that we have been experiencing a prelude, the foreplay if you will, of something worse.
The Homosoto letter makes him as good a candidate as anyone right now." Even Andrew Coletree felt in concert with the others on this point.
Secretary of State Quinton Chambers said, fully expecting immediate agreement with his idea. "On who?
The Computers?" jibed Defense Secretary Coletree.
The damned Computer Liberation Organization will be the next endan- gered minority." "Declaring war is a joke, excuse me Mr. President," said Phil Musgrave.
It's a joke and the American people won't buy it. They're getting hit where it hurts them the most.
We have major business shut downs, and they want an answer. A fix, not a bunch of hype.
We've had the war on crime, the war on drugs, the war on poverty and they've all been disasters. Things are worse now than before.
They've had it with bullshit and they're scared right now." The President bowed and rotated his head to work out a kink. "The position of think," Musgrave would say.
Then the refreshing snap in the President's neck would bring a smile of relief to the corners of Chief Executive's mouth. "What if we did it and meant it?" asked the President with a devilish grin.
What if we declared war, with the approval of Congress, and actually did something about it." "A unique concept," quipped Musgrave.
Penetrating glares from Coletree and Kennedy only furthered the President's amusement.
He enjoyed the banter. "No, let me run this by you, and see what you think," the Presi- dent thought out loud.
We are facing a crisis of epic propor- tions, we all agree on that.
Why don't we deal with it that way.
Why don't we really go out and fix it?
What is wrong with you guys? Don't you get it?
It can't be sold to the this country again.
For the first time in almost two centuries, the American people may have to defend themselves, in their homes and businesses on their home land.
If that's the case, then I think that leadership should come from the White House." The President rose and leaned on the back of his chair.
There was quiet muttering among his top aides.
Aren't you stretching the point a little, sir?" asked the Chambers, the silver haired statesman.
After all, it was just one man . . ." "That's the point!" shouted the President.
That's the whole damned point.
He strode around to the old white fireplace with a photo of George Washington above it.
If permitted, this spot would be labeled 'Photo Opportunity' by the White House tours. "Look what one man can do.
I never claimed to know anything about computers, but what if this was a warning?" "Don't get maudlin on us . . ." "I am not getting anything except angry," the President said raising his voice.
I remember what they said about Bush.
They said if he was Moses, he would have brought down the ten sugges- tions.
That will not happen to me." The inner circle stole questioning glances from each other. "This country has not had a common cause since Kennedy pointed us at the moon.
We had the chance in the '70's to build a national energy policy, and we screwed it up royally when oil prices were stable.
So what do we do?
His rhetorical question was best left unanswered.
We now import more than 50% of our oil. That's so stupid . . .don't let me get started.
There was an obvious sigh of relief from Chambers and Musgrave and the others. When the President got like this, real pissed off, he needed a sounding board, and it was generally one or more of them.
Such was the price of admission to the inner circle. The President abruptly shifted his manner from the political altruist still inside him to the management realist that had made him a popular leader.
He spoke with determination. "Gentlemen, exactly what is the current policy and game plan?" The President's gaze was not returned.
Mus- grave and Chambers and Secretary of the Treasury Martin Royce wished they could disappear into the wallpaper.
They had seen it before, and they were seeing it again.
Senior aides eaten alive by the President. "Henry?
The President's voice showed increasing irritation. "Sir, CERT, the Computer Emergency Response Team was activated a few months ago to investigate Network Penetrations," Henry Kennedy said.
ECCO, another computer team is working with the FBI on related events.
Until yesterday we didn't even know what we were up against, and we still barely understand it." "That doesn't change the question, Henry.
What are the channel contingencies?
Do I have to spell it out?
The President mel- lowed some.
I was hoping to spare myself the embarrassment of bringing attention to the fact that the President of the United States is unaware of the protocol for going to war with a comput- er.
The lilt in his voice cut the edge in the room, momentari- ly.
Now that that is out in the open, please enlighten us all." The jaws were preparing to close tightly. Henry Kennedy glanced nervously over at Andrew Coletree who replied by rubbing the back of his neck.
Sir," Henry said, "basically there is no defined, coordinated, that is established procedures for something like this.
The President's neck red- dened around the collar as Henry stuttered.
If you will permit me to explain . . ." The President was furious.
In over thirty years of professional politics, not even his closest aides had ever seen him so totally out of character.
The President said abruptly as he forced a fork full of scrambled eggs into his mouth. "The Federal Reserve and most banking transactions come to a virtual standstill.
He waited for the steam in his collar to subside before saying anything he might regret. "Marv?
For the first time the President acknowledged the presence of Marvin Jacobs, Director of the National Security Agency.
Jacobs had thus far been a silent observer.
The President's words stunned Jacobs and Coletree and the others except for Musgrave. "Sir?" "Do you or do you not have the largest computers in the world?" Jacobs nodded in agreement.
And do you not listen in to every- thing going on in the world in the name of National Security?" Jacobs winced and noticed that besides the President, others were interested in his answer.
Bush issued a Presidential Order rescinding Reagan's NSDD-145.
Do you recall?" "Yes, of course I do," said Marvin defensively.
It made sense then, and given it's charter, it still makes sense.
But you must understand that the Agency is only responsible for military security.
NIST handles civilian." "Do you think that the civilian agencies and the commercial computers face any less danger than the military computers?
The President quickly qualified his statement.
Based upon what we know now?" "No, not at all.
Jacobs felt himself being boxed into a corner. "But we're not tooled up for . . ." "You will receive all the help you need," the President said with assurance.
His words dared anyone to defy his command. "Yessir," Jacobs said humbly.
What about NIST?" "Do you need them?" "No question." "Consider it done.
I expect you all here at the same time tomor- row with preliminary game plans.
He knew that would get their attention.
Heads snapped up in disbelief. "One day?" complained Andrew Coletree.
There's no way that we can begin to mobilize and organize the research . . ." "That's the kind of talk I do not want to hear, gentlemen," the President said.
Coletree turned red. "Mr. President," said Chambers.
If we were going to war . . ." "Sir," the President said standing straight, "we are already at war.
You're just not acting like it.
According to you, the vital interests of this country have been attacked.
It is our job to defend the country.
If we are going to sell a Computer War to America, we better start acting like we take it seriously.
Pull out the stops." * * * * * 1:15 P.M., New York City Upon returning from lunch, Scott checked his E-Mail at the Times. Most of the messages he received were from co-workers or news associates in other cities.
He also heard from Kirk on the paper's supposedly secure network.
Neither he nor the technical network gurus ever figured out how he got in the system. The network administrators installed extra safeguards after Scott tipped them that he had been receiving messages from outside the paper.
They added what they called 'audit trails'.
Audit trails are supposed to record and remember every activity on the net- work.
The hope was that they could observe Kirk remotely enter- ing the computer and then identify the security breach.
He merely didn't keep any notes on the computer.
He stuck with the old tried and true method of hand written notes. His E-Mail this time contained a surprise. IF YOU WANT TO FIND OUT HOW I DID IT, CALL ME TONIGHT.
THE SPOOK. A pit suddenly developed in Scott's stomach.
The last time he remembered having that feeling was when he watched Bernard Shaw broadcast the bombing of Baghdad.
The sense of sudden helpless- ness, the foreboding of the unknown.
Or perhaps the shock of metamorphosis when one's thoughts enter the realm of the unreal. Then came the doubt. "Ty," Scott asked after calling him at his office.
What hap- pened to Foster?
He spoke seriously. "True to his word," Tyrone laughed with frustration, "he was out in an hour.
He said he was coming back to your party . . ." "Never showed up.
How did he get out so fast?" "He called the right guy.
Charges have been reduced to a couple of misdemeanors; local stuff." "So, isn't he your guy?" "We're off, right?
Tyrone though to double check. "Completely.
I just need to know for myself." "Bullshit," Tyrone retorted.
But for argument's sake, I know he had something to do with it, and so do a lot of other people." "So what's the problem?" "A technicality called proof," sighed Tyrone.
We have enough on him for a circumstantial case.
We know his every move since he left the NSA.
How much he spent and on whom.
We know he was with Homosoto, but that's all we know.
And yes, he is a comput- er genius." "And he goes free?" "For now.
We'll get him." "Who pulled the strings?" "The Prosecutor's office put up a brick wall.
Told us we had to get better evidence.
I though we were all on the same side." Tyrone's discouragement was evident, even across the phone wires. "Still planning on making a move?" "I'll talk to you later.
The phone went dead on Scott's ears. He had clearly said a no-no on the phone. * * * * * Cambridge, Massachusetts Lotus Development Corporation headquarters has been the stage for demonstrations by free-software advocates.
Lotus' lawsuits against Mosaic Software, Paperback Software and Borland created a sub-culture backlash against the giant software company.
Lotus sued its competitors on the basis of a look-and-feel copyright of the hit program 1-2-3.
She was well respected and ran a tight ship.
Her first concern, one that her management didn't necessarily always share, was to the customer.
If someone shelled out $500 for a program, they were entitled to impeccable service and assistance.
Despite her best efforts, though, Lotus had come to earn a reputation of arrogance and indifference to customer complaints.
The SDB is a record of all service calls.
The service reps logged the call, the serial #, the type of problem and the resolution.
Eileen's last task of the day was to compile the data accumulated during the day and issue a daily summation report. She commanded the data base to "Merge All Records".
The Service Department was able to act as a quali- ty control monitor for engineering and production.
If something was wrong - once a few hundred thousand copies hit the field - the error would show up by the number of calls.
But CE's were normally operator error.
Not the computer's. There was no correlation to serial numbers.
Old Version 1.0's through Version 3.0 and 3.1 were affected as were the current versions.
By all reports, Lotus 1-2-3 could no longer add, subtract, divide, multiply or compute accurately.
The bell curve across serial numbers was flat enough to obviate the need for a statistical analysis.
This was clearly not an engineering design error.
Nor was it a production error, or a run of bad disks.
They all work for the Fort now. Department of Defense." "Are you shitting me?
Scott tried to maintain control. "It'll be official tomorrow," Tyrone said.
The NSA has won again." "What do you mean, again?" "Ah," Tyrone said trying to dismiss his frustrated insight into agency rivalry.
Not his fault that his company makes absurd promises and contributes to the accident rate. As 9:00 P.M. approached, Scott's stomach knotted up.
Technology For The Peo- ple. <<<<<<DIALING 4165553165 . . . . . .>>>>>> Scott listened to the small speaker on his internal modem card as it dialed the tones in rapid sequence.
A click, a buzz and then in the background, Scott heard the faintest of tones.
Was that crosstalk from another line or was another secret number being dialed? <<<<<< CONNECTION 4800 BAUD>>>>>> The screen hesitated for few seconds then prompted . . . IDENTIFY YOURSELF: Scott wondered what to enter.
Or the handle Kirk's hackers gave him. Scott Mason aka Repo Man Again the computer display paused, seemingly pondering Scott's response. I SUPPOSE ASKING FOR FURTHER IDENTIFICATION WOULD OFFEND YOU. I'm getting used to it.
Paranoia runs rampant in your line of work. LET'S SAVE THE EDITORIALIZING FOR NOW.
PROVE YOU'RE SCOTT MASON. You can't keep your eyes off of Sonja's chest as I recall. GOOD START.
NICE TITS. So you're Miles Foster. THERE ARE GROUNDRULES.
UNLESS YOU ACCEPT THAT, WE WILL GET NOWHERE FAST. Like I said, you're Miles Foster. NO. AND IF I WAS, IT WOULDN'T MATTER.
YOUR BEST FRIEND. Let me see if I understand this right.
You will tell all, the whole story on the record, as long as you stay the Spook?
Use your name, Spook, in everything? THAT'S IT. The paper has given me procedures.
I have to record everything. Save it to disk, and give a copy to the lawyers. ARE YOU SAVING THIS YET? No. Not until we agree.
Then we outline the terms and go. I'M IMPRESSED.
WHO DEVELOPED THE RULES? The lawyers, who else? FIGURES. So.
Do we have a deal? LET ME SEE THE CONTRACT. Scott and the Spook exchanged notes over their modems and comput- ers until they arrived at terms they both could live with.
After Kirk, the rules Higgins had established were clear, easy to follow and fair.
Scott set his computer to Save the conversa- tion. This is Scott Mason, speaking to a person who identifies himself only as the Spook.
I do not know the sex of this person, nor his appearance as all conversations are occurring over computer modem and telephone lines.
The Spook contacted me today, through my office computer.
This is his amazing story. Spook.
Why did you call me? I DESIGNED THE COMPUTER INVASION OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TAKI HOMOSOTO.
WOULD YOU LIKE TO KNOW HOW I DID IT? * * * * * Wednesday, January 20 National Security Agency Marvin Jacobs had a busy day and evening.
And night, preparing for his meeting with the President.
He would have a chance to make his point, and win it, with an audience in attendance.
The high level bureaucrat craved to aspire within the echelons of the government hierarchy, but his inate competence prevented his goals from being realized. During Korea Lt. Marvin Jacobs served his country as 90 day wonder straight out of ROTC.
A business major with a minor in civic administration did not prepare him for the tasks the Army had in store for him.
Army Intelligence was in desperate need of quality analysts, people with minds more than marshmallows for brain.
The Army Intelligence Division G-2 personnel staff poured through new recruit files in hopes of recruiting them into the voluntary program.
But the catch phrase, 'Military- Intelligence,' a contradiction in terms' made their job doubly difficult.
In the sports world, they call it a signing bonus.
In the deep dark untrace- able world of the National Security Agency they call it All Paid Reconnaissance.
Travel when and where you like, ostensibly on behalf of your government.
If worse comes to worst, attend a half day seminar and make yourself seen. By the time he was thirty-five, Marvin Jacobs, now a well re- spected management fixture at the NSA, had seen the world twice over.
Occasionally he traveled on business.
For the first ten years with the Agency he traveled with his wife, college sweet- heart Sarah Bell, and then less so as their three children ma- tured.
Marvin Jacobs, on the other hand, found the job the deserved cherry on a career dedicated to his country.
It was largely a political job, and managing the competing factions of his huge secret empire occupied most of his time. The prestige, the power, the control and the responsibility alone wasn't enough for Marvin Jacobs.
He wanted to make a difference.
A very dangerous combination. * * * * * "It is so good to hear your voice, Ahmed Shah," Beni Rafjani said in Farsi over an open clear overseas line. "And you.
I am but Allah's servant," replied Ahmed, bowing his head slightly as he spoke. "As we all are.
But today I call to say you can come home." "Home?
The excitement in Ahmed's voice was more due to the call than the news.
However, with all due respect, I think we may accomplish more by continuing the work that our esteemed leader began.
Why should we stop now?
It goes very well - in our favor." "I understand," Rafjani said with respect.
You are honored for your sacrifice, living among the infidels." "It must be done.
I mean no disrespect." "You do not speak disrepectfully, Ahmed Shah.
Your work is important to your people.
If that is your wish, continue, for you do it well." "Thank you, thank you.
Even with intimates, the awe of the Presidency was still intact.
His tardiness added to the tension that they all felt as a result of the recent revelations.
Perhaps the tension would further hone their atten- tion and dialogue. He had not slept well the night before; he was prepared for anything he understood, but computers were not on his roster of acquired fluencies.
A President has to make decisions, tough decisions, life and death decisions, but decisions of the type that have a history to study and a lesson to learn.
And like most of those before him, he was well equipped to make tough decisions, right or wrong.
Presidents have to have the self confidence and internal resolve to commit themselves, and their nation, to a course of action.
This President's political life trained him well; lawyer, local politics, state politics and then Washington. But not computers.
He was not trained in computers.
He had learned to type, a little, and found that sending E-Mail messages was great fun.
To him it was a game.
Since the first days when microcomputers had invaded the offices of governmental Washing- ton, he had been able to insulate himself from their day to day use.
All the same, every desk he had occupied was adjoined by a powerful microcomputer fitted with the finest graphics, the best printer and an elite assortment of software.
He used the memory resident calculator and sent and received electronic mail.
That was it. The President, as most men of his generation, accepted the fact that computers now ran the show.
The whole shooting match. Especially the military.
This was the first time during his administration that major tactical and policy decisions would be made primarily by others.
His was a duty of rubber stamping.
That worry frustrated his attempts at sleeping and nagged at him before the meeting.
And then, of course, there was the press. "Gentlemen," the President said sauntering towards his chair at the head of the large formal breakfast table.
He opened the door with enough vigor to startle his guests.
He maintained his usual heads-up smile and spry gait as he noticed that there were new faces present. In addition to the inner circle, Marvin Jacobs asked two key NSA security analysts to be observers at the meeting.
The President was introduced to the guests and smiled to himself.
He recognized that the political maneuvering was beginning already.
Maybe the competition would help, he thought. "Marv," the President said leaning away from the waiter pouring his coffee.
This was the same waiter who had spilled near boil- ing liquid in his lap last month.
I guess it's your show, so I'll just sit back and keep my mouth shut.
He leaned even further away as the waiter's clumsiness did not inspire confi- dence. Group chuckle notwithstanding, everyone in the inner circle knew what the President really meant.
The President was hungry and Marv Jacobs would not be eating breakfast.
He would be answering questions. "Thank you, sir," Marv said as he courteously acknowledged the presence of the others.
He handed out a file folder to everyone in the room.
Each was held together with a red strap labeled TOP SECRET that sealed the package.
Not until the President began to open his package did the others follow suit. "We've only had a day to prepare . . .
Marvin Jacobs began. "I know," the President said wiping the corner of his mouth with a white linen napkin.
That should have been plenty of time." Marvin, wisely avoided responding to the President's barb.
He took the caustic hit as the other breakfast guests quietly thanked the powers on high that it was someone elses turn to be in the hot seat.
All in all, though, the President was a much calmer person this morning than during his verbal tirade the day before.
But, if needed, the acerbity of his biting words would silence the boldest of his advisors or enemies.
The President was still royally pissed off. "We have developed a number of scenarios that will be refined over the next weeks as we learn more about the nature of the assault by Homosoto.
He turned into his report and indicated that everyone should turn to page 4.
This is sketchy, but based upon what we have seen already, we can estimate the nature of what we're up against." Page 4 contained three Phrases. 1.
Malevolent Self Propagating Software Programs (Viruses) 2.
Unauthorized Electromagnetic Pulses and Explosions 3.
Anti-TEMPEST Coherent Monitor and Pixel Radiation. Marvin Jacobs described the observed behavior of each category, but nonetheless the President was unhappy.
A rehash from the newspapers. "That's it?" the President asked in disbelief.
You call that an estimate?
I can find out more than that from CNN." "At this point, that's about it." "I still can't believe this," the President said, shaking his head.
What the hell am I going to say when I have to face the press?
Bullshit!" "Sir, may I be blunt?
Marvin asked. "Of course, please.
That's what we're here for," the President said, wondering how blunt was blunt. "Sir, this is certainly no time to place blame on anyone, but I do think that at a minimum some understanding is in order.
All eyes turned to Jacobs as he spoke.
Sir, the NSA has been in the business of safeguarding military computer systems for years." "That's arguable," said the President critically. Marvin continued unaffected.
Cryptography and listening and deciphering are our obvious strong points.
Sir," Paul spoke to the Presi- dent, "I'm sorry for interrupting . . ." "Say what you have to say." "Yessir.
Trump had no trouble being direct either.
Nearing mandatory retirement age had made Trump more daring.
Willing to take more risks in the best interest of NIST and therefore the nation.
Spry and agile, Paul Trump looked twenty years younger with no signs of slowing down. "Sir, the reason that we don't have any security in the govern- ment is due to Congress.
We, Marv and I, agree on that one point.
Martin, do you concur?" Treasury Secretary Martin Royce vigorously nodded in agreement. "We've been mandated to have security for years, but no one says where the money's coming from.
The hill made the laws but didn't finish the job." The President enjoyed the banter among his elite troops.
He thrived on open dissent and debate, making it easier for him to weigh information and opinions.
Khrushchev scoured the room for a clue as to who made the insulting comment. After a tense few seconds he said, 'would the comrade who wrote this stand up so I may answer him face to face?
No one stood. 'Now, you know the answer.' The President's point was, around here anything goes, but I'm the boss.
The difference is the democratic process, he would say, the voters elect me by a majority to institute a benevolent oligarchy.
And I, he pointed at himself, am the oligarch. Paul Trump continued.
The CMR problem for the commercial sector has been completely ignored under the cloak of classified specifications." "TEMPEST is a classified program . . .
Marvin objected strenu- ously. "Because you want it to be," Trump retorted instantly.
It doesn't have to be, and you know it.
Sir," he turned to the President.
TEMPEST is . . .
The President nodded that he knew.
The specification for TEMPEST may have been considered a legitimate secret when the program started in the '70's.
But now, the private sector is publishing their own results of stud- ies duplicating what we did 20 years ago.
The Germans, the Dutch, the French, just about everybody but the English and us has admitted that CMR is a problem for everyone, not just the military.
Jesus, you can buy anti-Tempest plans in Popular Science.
Because of NSA's protectiveness of a secret that is no longer a secret, the entire private sector is vulnerable to CMR and anti-TEMPEST assaults.
As a country, we have no electronic privacy." Marvin nodded in agreement.
You're damn right we keep it a secret.
Why the hell should we tell the world how to protect against it?
By doing that, we not only define the exact degree of our own exposure, but teach our enemies how to protect them- selves.
It should be classified." "And everyone else be damned?
Trump challenged Jacobs. "I wouldn't put it that way, but NSA is a DoD oriented agency after all.
Ask Congress," Marvin said resolutely. "That's the most alienating, arrogant isolationist attitude I've ever heard," Paul Trump said.
Regardless of what you may think, the NSA is not the end-all be-all, and as you so conveniently dismiss, the NSA is not trusted by many outside the U.S..
We do not have a technology monopoly on TEMPEST any more than we do on the air we breathe.
Trump threw up his hands in disgust. "Patently absurd paranoia . . ." "Paul, you don't have all the facts . . ." objected Marv to no avail.
Trump was a master at debate. "Sir," Trump again turned from the argumentative Jacobs to the President.
I don't think this is proper forum for rehashing history, but it should be noted that NIST is responsible for non- defense computer security, and we have a staff and budget less than 1% of theirs.
The job just isn't getting done.
Personally, I consider the state of security within the government to be in total chaos.
The private sector is in even worse shape, and it's our own fault." "Phil?" the President said.
Phil nodded as the debate continued.
None of this is saying a damn thing about what we should do.
How do we best defend?
He bit off the end of crispy slice of bacon waiting for the answer he knew would be unsatisfactory. "We improvise." "Improvise!
That's the best you can do?
The President threw down his napkin and it slipped off the table to the floor as he shoved his chair back. "This country is run by goddamned computers," the President muttered loudly as he paced the breakfast room.
Those who had been eating ceased long ago.
According to reports, the industry standard 1-2-3 and the popular Excel spreadsheets have been experiencing cataclysmic failures in the field.
Gibraltar Insurance issued a terse statement: "Due to the potential damage caused by the offending software, we will immediately begin installation of compatible spreadsheet programs and verify the accuracy of all data.
Our attorneys are studying the matter at this time." Lotus and Microsoft stock plummeted 36% and 27% respectively. * * * * * GOOD ARTICLE.
DO YOU WANT TO GET IT RIGHT NOW? I see humility reigns right up there with responsibility. THE FIRST LOTUS VIRUSES WERE WRITTEN IN LATE 1988.
CUTE, HUH? THE LONGEST VIRUS INCUBATION PERIOD EVER! Not many people share your sense of achievement. I DON'T EXPECT SO. We should get something straight right off. ARE YOU SAVING? I am now.
I do not approve, in fact I despise what you say you've done. I AM NOT LOOKING FOR APPROVAL.
MAYBE UNDERSTANDING. Not from me. YOU'RE BETTER THAN THAT.
YOU'RE GOING FOR A PULITZER. Don't tell me how to do my job. LET'S GET TO IT. Fine.
Where did I go wrong in the article? NOT WRONG, INCOMPLETE.
TIME RELEASE SLIGHT VIRUSES. WHEW! Why?
Why tell me now? SLOW DOWN.
BRILLIANT IF I SAY SO MYSELF. And you want me to print this?
Why? IT WILL GIVE YOU AND ME CREDIBILITY.
WE HAVE TO STOP IT FROM HAPPENING. What from happening? THE FULL ATTACK.
IT CAN'T BE TOTALLY STOPPED, BUT I CAN HELP. How much of an attack? YOU HAVE NO IDEA.
THERE'S NO WAY TO TURN IT OFF. That's incredible . . .more than incredible.
For what purpose? MAYBE LATER.
EVERY POSSIBILITY AND HOW TO CAUSE THE MOST DAMAGE. It's a good thing I kind of understand the technical gobbledy- gook. OH, IN ENGLISH?
WE STUDIED WHAT HAPPENS IF YOU ENDLESSLY THROW THOUSANDS OF COMPUTER VIRUSES AT THE UNITED STATES. I got that.
So what does happen? YOU'RE FUCKED FOR LIFE.
1000 IS FATAL. You have a way with words. GOD GIVEN GIFT.
I GUESS YOU COULD CALL US A THINK TANK FOR COMPUTER WARFARE. So what happens next Mr. Spook? PATRONIZING, NOW, NOW, NOW.
LET'S SEE HERE (FLIP, FLIP) SATUR- DAY, JANUARY 23, NO, THAT WAS THE STOCK EXCHANGE, NO DECEMBER 11, THE PHONE COMPANY AND FEDERAL EXPRESS . . . Cocky son of a bitch aren't you? AH YES!
Scott's excited voice caught Tryone's notice. "Scott," he yawned.
What's the matter?" "Are you awake?" "Don't worry, I had to get up to answer the phone.
Then in a more muffled voice Scott heard Tyrone say, "no, it's all right dear.
Go back to sleep, I'll take it in the den.
Tyrone got back on the phone and barked, "hold on." Scott paced across his junked up home office, sidestepping some items, stepping on others, until Tyrone came back on the line. "Shit, man," were Tyrone's first words.
You have any idea what time it is?" "Hey, I'm sorry," Scott said mocking Tyrone's complaint.
I'll write you a letter tomorrow and lick a stamp and let the Post Office take it from there . . ." "You made your point.
What is it?" "The airlines are going to be hit next.
Homosoto's next target." "How the hell would you know that?" "I've been talking to Foster.
He told me." "Foster told you what?" "It's a huge attack, an incredibly large computer attack.
But the point is, the airlines.
Please note, these are exact quotes from a computer conversation with the Spook. "There will be thousands of viruses.
I have to imagine by now that every program in America is infected with ten different viruses.
There is only one way to stop them all. Never turn on your computers. "You see, most virus programmers are searching for immediate gratification.
They write one and want it to spread real quick and then see it blow up.
So most amateur virus builders are disappointed in the results because they don't have patience. But we, I had patience. "To maximize the effects of viruses, you have to give them time. Time to spread, to infect.
Many of the viruses that you will experience are years old.
The older viruses are much cruder than those made recently.
We learned over time to build better vi- ruses.
It wasn't for the money.
No one ever collected any money, did they? It was pure psychological warfare.
Making people distrust their computers, distrust one another because the computer makes them look like liars.
The money was a diversion- ary tactic. "Part of any attack is the need to soften the enemy and terrorism is the best way to get quick results.
By the time the first viruses came along, whoa!
At the pinnacle was Homosoto acting as Command and Control. "I didn't actually infect any computers myself.
As the machine sucked in the card, the small screen asked for the personal identification number, the PIN, associated with that particular card.
Dennis entered the requested four digit PIN, 1501.
The teller whirred and asked Dennis which transaction he would like. He selected: Checking Balance. A few seconds later $4,356.20 appeared.
Good, Dennis thought. He then selected: Withdrawal - Checking Dennis entered, $2,000.00 and the machine display told him that his request exceeded the daily withdrawal limit.
Normal, he thought, as he entered an 8 digit sequence: 00330101.
The super- visor control override. The teller hummed and thought for a moment, and then $20 bills began tumbling out of the "Take Cash" drawer.
And the next night, and the next.
He netted $246,300 in three days.
For the first time in years, America had no access to instant cash. Bank lines grew to obscene lengths and the waiting for simple transactions was interminable.
The Commerce De- partment was demanding action by Treasury who pressured the FBI and everybody looked to the White House for leadership.
The economic impact of immediate cash restriction had been virtually instantaneous; after all the U.S. is a culture of spontaneity demanding instant gratification.
Cash machines addressed that cultural personality perfectly.
Now it was gone. Dennis Melbourne knew that it was time to begin on the MOST network.
Then the American Express network.
And he would get rich in the process.
Ahmed Shah paid him very well.
25% of the take. * * * * * Friday, January 22 New York City "We had to take out the part about the airlines," Higgins said in response to Scott's question about the heavy editing.
To Hig- gins' and Doug's surprise, Scott understood; he didn't put up a stink. "I wondered about that," Scott said reflecting back on the last evening.
Telling too much can be worse than not telling enough. Whatever you say, John." "We decided to let the airlines and the FAA and the NTSB make the call.
Higgins and Scott had come to know and respect each other quite well in the last few weeks.
They didn't agree on every- thing, but as the incredible story evolved, Higgins felt more comfortable with less conservative rulings and Scott relinquished his non-negotiable pristine attitude.
At least they disagreed less often and less loudly.
Although neither one would admit it, each made an excellent sounding board for the other - a valuable asset on a story this important. Higgins continued.
The airlines are treating it as a bomb scare.
They have people going through the systems, looking for whatever it is you people look for." Higgins' knowledge of computers was still dismal. "Scott, let me ask you something.
Doug broke into the conversa- tion that like all the others, took place in Higgins' lawyer-like office.
They occurred so often that Scott had half seriously convinced Higgins' secretary that he wouldn't attend unless there were fresh donuts and juice on the coffee table.
When Higgins found out, he was mildly annoyed, but nonetheless, in the spirit of camaraderie, he let the tradition continue.
Children will be children," he said. "How much damage could be done if the Spook's telling the truth?" Doug asked. "Oh, he's telling the truth," Scott said somberly.
Don't for- get, I know this guy.
He said that the effects would take weeks and maybe months to straighten out.
And the airline assault would start Monday." "Why is he being so helpful?
Higgins asked. "He wants to establish credibility.
He says he wants to help now, but first he wants to be taken seriously." "Seriously?
He's a terrorist!" shouted Higgins.
No damn different than someone who throws a bomb into a crowded subway.
You don't negotiate with terrorists!
He calmed him- self, not liking to show that degree of emotion.
But we want the story . . ." he sighed in resignation.
Doug and Scott agreed in unison. "Personally, it sounds like a macho ego thing," commented Doug. "So what?" asked Higgins.
Motivation is independent of premedi- tation." "Legally speaking . . .
He wanted to make sure than John was aware that there were other than purely legal issues on the table. "As I was saying," Scott continued.
The reservation computers are the single most important item in running the nation's air- lines.
They all interact and talk to each other, and create billing, and schedule planes; they interface on line to the OAG . . .they're the brains.
They all use Fault Tolerant equip- ment, that's spares of everything, off site backup of all records - I've checked into it.
Whatever he's planned, it'll be a doo- sey." "Well, it doesn't matter now," Higgins added with indifference. "Legally it's unsubstantiated hearsay.
But with the computer transcripts of all your conversations, if anything happens, I'd say you'd have quite a scoop." "That's what he wants!
And we can't warn anybody?" "That's up to the airlines, the FAA, not us.
The phone on Hig- gins disk emitted two short warbles.
He spoke into the phone. "Yeah?
He held the phone out to Scott and curled his lips.
Scott glanced over at Doug who raised his bushy white eyebrows. Scott picked up the phone on the end table by the leather couch; the one that Scott seemed to have made a second home.
Well, I could be in Washington . . .
Scott looked over to Doug for advice.
Doug shook his head, yes.
I'd be happy to," he said reading his watch.
He waited a few seconds.
Yes, I know the number.
Thank you." "Well?" asked Higgins. "The President himself wants to have a little chat with me." * * * * * Friday, January 22 The White House Only the President, Musgrave and Henry Kennedy were there to meet Scott.
They did not want to overwhelm him, merely garner his cooperation.
Scott rushed by cab to the White House from Nation- al Airport, and used the Press Gate even though he had an ap- pointment with The Man.
He could have used the Visitor's En- trance.
Scott was whisked by White House aides through a "Private" door in the press room to the surprise of the regular pool reporters who wondered who dared to so underdress.
Kennedy and Musgrave kept their smirks to themselves, knowing full well from the very complete dossier on Scott Mason, that he was having a significant intimate rela- tionship with one Sonja Lindstrom, here in Washington.
Very convenient was more like it, they thought. The President sat Scott down on the Queen Anne and complimented him on his series of articles on computer crime.
He said that Scott was doing a fine job awakening the public to the problem, and that more people should care, and how brave he was to jump in front of flying bullets, and on and on and on.
Due to Henry and Phil's political savvy and professional discipline, neither of their faces showed that they both wanted to throw up on the spot. This was worse than kissing babies to get elected.
He, too, had wondered what the President wanted so much that the extended foreplay was necessary.
I understand Scott, that you have developed quite a rapport with this Spook fellow." He held up a copy of the New York paper headlines blaring: Computer Terrorism - Exclusive. Aha!
So that's what they want!
They want me to turn him in. "I consider myself to be very lucky, right place, right time and all.
Scott downplayed his position with convincing humility.
It seems as if he has selected me as his mouthpiece." "All we want, in fact, all we can ask," Musgrave said, "is for you to give us information before it's printed.
Scott's eyes shot up in defense, protest at the ready.
No, no," Mugrave added quickly.
We know that Miles Foster is the Spook, but we can't prove it without giving away away too many of our secrets.
Scott knew they were referring to their own electronic eavesdropping habits that would be imprudent in a court.
Single handedly he is capable of bringing down half of the government's computers.
We need to know as much as we can as fast as we can.
So, whatever you print, we'd like an early copy of it.
That's all." Scott's mind immediately traveled back to the first and only time an article of his was pulled.
Of course it finally got printed, but why the niceties now?
They can take what they want, but instead they ask?
Maybe they don't want to get caught fiddling around with the Press too much.
Such activi- ties snagged Nixon, not saying that the President was Nixon- esque, but politics is politics.
What do I get in return?
He could hear it now, the '<MI>you'll be helping your country,<D>' speech.
Bargaining with the President would be gauche at the least. So he proposed to Musgrave instead.
I want an exclusive inter- view with the President when this thing is over." "Done!" said Musgrave too quickly.
Scott immediately castigated himself for not asking for more.
A true Washington denizen would have asked for a seat in the Cabinet. But that was between Scott and his conscience.
Doug would hear a dramatized account. "And no other media finds out that you know anything until . . ." Scott added another minor demand. "Until the morning papers appear at the back door with the milk," joked Musgrave.
Scott, this is for internal use only.
Every hour will help." Scott was given a secret White House phone number where someone would either receive FAX or E-Mail message.
Not the standard old PRESIDENT@WHITEHOUSE.GOV that any schmo with a PC could E-mail into.
He was also given a White House souvenir pen. "It went fine," Kennedy said to Marvin Jacobs from his secure office in the White House basement.
He spoke to Marvin Jacobs up at Fort Meade on the STU-III phones. "Didn't matter," Marvin said munching on what sounded to Kennedy like an apple.
For a National Security Advisor, Kennedy didn't know very much about how intel- ligence is gathered.
Just in case." "Well, we don't need it anymore," Kennedy said.
Mason is coop- erating fully." "I like to have alternatives.
I expect you'll be telling the President about this." "Not a chance.
Kennedy sounded spooked. Jacobs loudly munched the last bite through the apple skin. "I'll have something else for you on Mason tomorrow.
Let's keep him honest." * * * * * Friday, January 22 Reston, Virginia "No, mom, I'm not going to become a spy," Scott calmly said into the phone while smiling widely at Sonja.
No, I can't tell you what he wanted, but he did give me a present for you.
Scott mouthed the words, 'she's in heaven' to Sonja who enjoyed seeing the pleasure the woman received from her son's travels.
Yes, I'll be home in a couple of days," he paused as his mother interrupted again.
Yes, I'll be happy to reprogram your VCR. I'm sorry it doesn't work . . .
Yes, mom, I'm paying attention.
O.K., goodnight, I love you.
He struggled to pull the phone from his ear, but his mother kept talking.
Finally he was able hang up and start worrying about one of their dinner guests.
Miles Foster. Scott had told Sonja nothing about Miles.
As far as the world was concerned, they were two different people with different goals, different motivations and different lives.
The unresolved irreconcilliation between the two faces of Miles Foster put Scott on edge, though.
Does he treat Miles like Miles or like the Spook?
Or is the Spook coming to dinner instead of Miles.
Does he then treat the Spook like the Spook or like Miles? In kind, Sonja had not told Scott that she had been hired to meet him, nor that she had quit after meeting him.
The night Miles was arrested, she had successfully evaded his queries about her professional PR functions.
Scott accepted at face value that Sonja was between jobs. She had made a lot of money from Alex and his references, but that was the past.
She had no desire to be dishonest with Scott, on the contrary.
It was not an easy topic to broach, however, and if things between them got beyond the frenzied sexual savage- ry stage, she would have to test the relationship.
But not yet. The doorbell of Sonja's lakefront Whisper Way townhouse in Reston rang before either she or Scott were ready, so Scott volunteered for first shift host and bartender duty.
He took a deep breath, ready for another unpredictable evening, and opened the door. "Scott," Stephanie Perkins said putting her arms around his neck. "Welcome back.
It's good to see you.
The three of them, Stephanie, Sonja and Scott had gotten along very well.
Maybe Miles can see his way clear to spend the entire evening with us tonight," she said teasing Miles. Miles ignored Perky's shot at him and brushed it aside without comment.
Apparently he had provided Stephanie with an acceptable excuse for getting arrested by the FBI.
Scott prepared the drinks and Stepha- nie went upstairs with her glass of wine to see Sonja and let the boys finish their shop talk.
Miles opened the sliding glass doors to the deck overlooking the fairly large man-made lake. "I won't ask," Scott said as soon as Stephanie's feet disappeared from view on the elegant spiral staircase to the second floor. "Thanks.
And, by the way, Perky probably doesn't need to hear too much about Amsterdam," Miles said with a mildly sinister touch. "We used to call it the rules of the road," Scott remembered. "I call it survival.
Christ, sometimes I get so fucking horny, I swear the crack of dawn is in trouble." Scott's mind played with the varied imagery of Miles' creative phraseology.
The name was different, he thought, but the charac- ter was the same. "You know," Scott said as the two stood on the deck, drinks in hand, soaking up the brisk lake air.
I really don't understand you." "What's to understand?
Miles' gaze remained constant over the moonlit water. "I see that you weren't overly detained the other evening." "No reason to be.
It was a terrible mistake.
They must have me confused with someone else.
Miles played dead pan. "You know what I'm talking about," urged Scott.
The Spook and all that . . ." "Fuck you!
Miles turned and yelled with hostility.
He placed the glass of Glenfiddich on the railing and pointed his forefin- ger in Scott's face.
You're getting what you want, so back the fuck off.
Got it?" Scott's blood pressure joined his fight or flight response in panic.
Was this the Mr. Hyde of Miles Foster?
His face emerged from the lip melee with no trace of anger, no trace of displeasure.
The sinister Miles was magically transformed into Miles the lover. He had had no chance to respond to Miles' outburst, so Scott was caught with his jaw hung open. "You boys finish shop yet?
Stephanie said nuzzling at Miles' ear. "We were just discussing the biographical inconsistencies in the annotated history of Alfred E.
Neumann's early years," Miles said convincingly.
He glanced over at Scott with a wise cracking dimple filled smile.
We disagree on the exact date of his second bris." Incredible, thought Scott.
The ultimate chameleon. Gullibility was one of Stephanie's long suits, so Sonja helped out.
That's right up there with the bathing habits of the Jamaican bobsled team." "C'mon," Stephanie said tugging at Miles.
It's chilly out here." Dumbfounded, Scott shrugged at Miles when the girls weren't looking.
Miles mouthed back at Scott, 'you're fucking right it is.' The remainder of the evening comprised a little of everything. Except computers.
They are hardware viruses; viruses built right into the electronics. The underground computer culture calls the elite designers of hardware viruses Chippers.
They design and build integrated circuits, chips, the brains of toys and computers, to purposefully malfunction.
The chips are de- signed to either simply stop working, cause intentional random or persistent errors and even cause physical damage to other elec- tronic circuits. You ask, is all of this really possible?
He said, "I personally headed up that portion of the engineering design team.
The techniques for building and disguising a Trojan Chip were all mine.
I originally suggested the idea in jest, saying that if someone really wanted to cause damage, that's what they would do.
Homosoto didn't even blink at the cost.
Twelve million dollars." When asked if he knew when the chips would start failing he responded, "I don't know the exact dates because anyone could easily add or change a date or event trigger.
But I would guess that based upon timing of the other parts of the plan, seemingly isolated electronic systems will begin to fail in the next few months.
But, that's only a guess." The most damaging types of Trojan Chips are those that already have a lot of room for memory.
The Spook described how mostly static RAM, (Random Access Memory) chips and various ROM chips, (Read Only Memory) such as UV-EPROM and EEPROM were used to house the destructive instructions for later release in computer sys- tems. "It's really simple.
There are always thousands of unused gates in every IC.
Banks and banks of memory for the taking.
Homosoto was no slouch, and he recognized that hardware viruses are the ultimate in underground computer warfare.
Even better than the original Trojan Horse.
No messy software to worry about, and extensive collateral damage to nearby electronic components. Makes repairs terrifically expensive." Which chips are to be considered suspect?
The Spook was clear. "Any RAM or ROM chips with the OSO logo and a date code after 1/89 are potentially dangerous.
They should be swapped out immediately for new, uninfected components.
Also, OSO sold their chips, in die form, to other manufacturers to put their own names on them.
I wish I knew to whom, but Homosoto's firm handled all of that." The Spook also said to beware of any electronic device using OSO labeled or OSO made LS logic chips.
Hundreds of millions of the LS logic chips, the so called Glue of electronics, are sold every year.
In the electronics world they are considered 'dime-store' parts, selling for a few pennies each.
However, in most elec- tronic systems, an inexpensive component failure is just as bad as an expensive component failure.
In either case, it stops working. The Spook continues: "The idea was to build a small timebomb into VCR's, televisions and radios.
Not only computers, but alarm systems, cash registers, video games, blowing up all at once.
At times it got very funny.
Imagine dishwashers spitting up gallons of suds in kitchens everywhere.
The ovens will be cook- ing pork tartar and toast a la burnt.
What happens when Betty- Jean doesn't trust her appliances any more?
The return line at Sears will be a week long." I asked the Spook how this was possible?
How could he inflict such damage without anyone noticing?
His answer is as indicting as is his guilt.
If the chip passes a few simple tests, it's put into a calculator or a clock or a tele- phone or an airplane.
No one expects the chip to be hiding something destructive, so no one looks for it.
Not even the military check.
They just expect their chips to work in the frozen depths of space and survive a nuclear blast.
Have we taken too much liberty without the concomitant responsibility?
I know that I find I wish I could run parts of my life in fast forward.
Sitting in a movie theater, I feel myself tense as I realize I cannot speed up the slow parts.
Has the infinite flexibility we have given ourselves outpaced social conscience? Ironically, conversations with the Spook tended to be impersonal; not machine-like, but devoid of concern for people.
I asked him if he cared. "That was not the idea, as far as I know.
In a way this was electronic warfare, in the true sense of the word.
Collateral damage is unavoidable." Hardware viruses in addition to software viruses.
Is nothing sacred? * * * * * Sunday, January 24 Washington, D.C. "Does he know what he's saying?
Henry Kennedy said doubtfully. "I think so, and I also think it's a brilliant way to put a huge dent in the Japanese monopoly on integrated circuits.
Marvin Jacobs had an office installed not two doors from Kennedy's in the subterranean mazes beneath the White House lawn. "He can't blame the Japanese for everything." "Don't you see?
All he's saying is that OSO did it, and he's letting the Japanese national guilt by association take its course.
Mason's chippers will cast a shadow of doubt on everything electronic made in Japan. If it has OSO's name on it, it'll be taboo.
Toshiba, Mitsubishi, Matsushita . . .all the big Nippon names will be tarnished for years." "And you actually want this to happen?" asked Henry. "I didn't say that," Marvin said slithering away from a policy opinion.
Hey, what are you complaining about?
Pray tell?" Marvin grinned devilishly before answering.
Are they free to anyone with a receiver, like a radio or TV?
No one has tested the theory yet.
And that's not to say we've tried to publicize it.
The FCC ruled in 1990 that eavesdropping on cellu- lar telephone calls was legal.
All in the name of national security." Henry did not approve of Marvin's tactics. "It's been done before and it'll be done again," Marvin said fairly unconcerned with Kennedy's opinions and whining.
Citing National Security is a great antidote to political inconvenience." "I don't agree with you, not one iota!" blasted Kennedy.
This is a democracy, and with that comes the good and the bad, and one premise of a democracy is the right to privacy.
Phone taps, all the time, phone taps." "Henry, Henry," begged Marv to his old time, but more liberal minded friend.
Marvin's almost wicked smile was not contagious.
It's not illegal either." Kennedy frown deeply.
I think you take the NSA's charter as national listening post to an extreme," he said somberly. "Henry, Are you going to fight me on this?
Marv asked finally. "No," sighed Henry Kennedy.
The President gave you the task, I heard him, and I'm here to support his efforts.
I don't have to agree . . .but it would help." * * * * * "Don't worry.
The speech will make him sound like an expert, like he actually knows what he talking about.
Not a man who thinks Nintendo is Japanese slang for nincompoop.
Phil Musgrave called Henry Kennedy's office in the basement. Phil joked with Henry about the President's legendary technical ineptness.
One time while giving a speech to the VFW, the sound went out.
But this is a new area for all of us.
We don't have the contingency plans.
Defense hasn't spent years studying the problem and working out the options or the various scenarios.
That doesn't change the fact that he's winging it. Christ, we don't even know the questions much less the answers and, well, we know he calls 911 to change a lightbulb.
His affection for the President was clear through the barb.
And you know what really pisses me off?" "What's that?" "Jacobs.
He seems pleased with the turn of events." "He should," agreed Phil nonchalantly.
He just won a major battle.
He's got security back under his thumb.
A nice politi- cal coup." "No, not that," Henry said cautiously.
It's just that I think he's acting too much the part of the renegade.
Do you know what I mean?" "No, not at all," laughed Phil.
He's just playing it his way, not anyone elses.
C'mon, now, you know that." "I guess . . ." "Besides, Henry," he said glancing at his watch.
It's getting to be that time.
They agreed to watch the speech from the sidelines, so they could see how the President's comments were greeted by the press. "Ladies and Gentlemen, the President of the United States.
An assistant White House press agent made the announcement to the attendant Washington press pool.
The video was picked up by the CNN cameras as it was their turn to provide a feed to the other networks.
Sunday evening was an odd time to call a press confer- ence, but everyone had a pretty good idea that the subject was going to be computers.
Thus far, government comments on the crisis had come from everywhere but the White House. The President rapidly ambled up to the podium and placed his notes before him.
He put on his glasses and stared at the camera somberly.
It was speeches that began this way, without a prean- nounced subject matter, that caused most Americans who grew up during the Cold War to experience a sinking feeling in their stomachs.
They still thought about the unthinkable.
As usual the press corps was rapt with attention. "Good evening," the President of the United States began slowly. "I am speaking to you tonight on a matter of great concern to us all.
A subject of the utmost urgency to which we must address ourselves immediately. "That subject is, information.
The value of information. "As I am sure most of you are aware, one man, Taki Homosoto, threatened the United States this last week.
It is about that very subject that I wish to speak to the country, and the world." The President paused.
He had just told the country what he was going to say.
Now he had to say it. "For all practical purposes, the United States is undergoing an electronic Pearl Harbor, and the target is one of the most cru- cial segments of our way of life: Information. "Information.
Infor- mation is a book, or a movie or a television show.
Information is a picture, it's a word and it's a gesture.
Information is also a thought.
A pure idea. "Information is the single commodity, a common denominator upon which all industrial societies must rely.
Data, facts, opinions, pictures, histories, records, charts, numbers.
How can modern society function without information and the computers that make America what it is?
Effectively there are no longer any nationalistic boundaries that governments create.
Information has become a global commodity.
What would our respective cul- tures look like if information was no longer available? "We would not be able to predict the weather.
Credit cards would be worthless pieces of plastic.
We would save less lives without enough information and the means to analyze it.
We need massive amounts of information to make informed decisions in government policies and actions. "What if banks could no longer transfer money because the comput- ers were empty?
How could the airlines fly if there were no pas- senger records?
What good is an insurance company if its clients names are nowhere on file?
If there was no phone book, who could you call?
If hospitals had no files on your medical history, what treatment is required?
Anything we want in the form of informa- tion can literally be brought into our homes; cable television, direct satellite connections from the back yard.
Corporate successes are often based upon well organized data banks and analytic tech- niques.
Government functions, and assuredly the Cold War was fought, on the premise that one side has more accurate informa- tion than its adversary.
Certainly academia requires the avail- ability of information across all disciplines.
Unfortunately, we as trust- ing Americans, have allowed a complacency to overshadow prudent pragmatism. "Over the last weeks we have begun to see the results of our complacency.
The veins of the nation, the free flow of informa- tion, is being poisoned. "Both the government and the private sector are to blame for our state of disarray and lack of preparedness in dealing with the current crisis.
And, the small businessman has come to rely on his computer as Big Business has for decades.
His survival, his success is as critical to the stability of the United States' economy as is a General Motors or an IBM.
We must defend the small business as surely as we must defend our international competitiveness of industrial leaders. "The wealth of this country was once in steel mills, in auto plants, in manufacturing.
The products built by the United States were second to none.
Made in the U.S.A. was a proud label, one that carried a premium worldwide.
Our technological leadership has never been in question and has been the envy of the world for over 200 years.
The Wright Brothers, Westinghouse, Ford.
As a nation the Manhattan Project reaffirmed our leadership.
Then Yaeger and the speed of sound.
The Moon. The computer. "Yet there was a subtle shift occurring that escaped all but the most vigilant.
We were making less things, our concentration on manufacturing was slowly shifting to an emphasis on technology. Communications, computers.
No longer are cities built around smokestacks spewing forth the byproducts of the manufacturing process.
Instead, industrial parks sprout in garden-like settings that encourage mental creativity. Fifteen percent of the American workforce no longer drive to the office.
They commute via their computers at home. "The excitement of the breakneck pace of technology masked the danger in which we were placing ourselves.
Without realizing it, a bulk of this nation's tangible wealth was being moved to the contents of a computer's memory.
We took those first steps toward computerization hesitantly; we didn't trust the computer. It was unfamiliar, foreign, alien.
But, as I said earlier, neither your government nor its constituency heeded the warnings with enough diligence.
Protection of government information became a back-burner issue, a political hot cake, that in budget crunches, was easy to overlook.
Overclassification of information became the case of the 'The Spy Who Cried Wolf.
The classification system has been abused and clearly does not serve us well.
At my direction it will receive a thorough overhaul. "Personal privacy has been ignored.
Your government is in pos- session of huge amounts of data and yet there is no effort at protecting the non-classified privacy of individuals in our computers. "The private sector faces another dilemma.
Nothing can change the fact that the attack cannot be turned away.
And nothing can change the fact that America will suffer significant disruptions and inconvenience for some time. But we can minimize the damage.
We can prepare for the inevita- ble obstacles we will face. "The poison that Mr. Homosoto put into the American information society is the equivalent of electronic biological warfare.
The NSA has the expe- rience and resources, and the support of this President to manage an operation of this complexity and importance.
In addition, representatives from GCHQ in the United Kingdom and other ITSEC members from Germany, France and Holland will coordinate European defensive strategies. "Second, I am activating the following four groups to assist the NSA in their efforts.
It is they who are responsible to insure that America never again finds itself so vulnerable. So open to attack.
So helpless in our technological Achilles Heel. "The organizations I mentioned, and the government itself have not yet been tested in a crisis of significant magnitude.
Your assistance. Your government cannot do it alone.
Nor can small localized individual efforts expect to be successful against an army of invaders so large.
We must team together, act as one, for the good of the entire country.
Let me tell you what my advisors tell me.
That represents over 70 million casualties! "The international financial and monetary system will come to a halt and collapse.
Financial trading as we know it will cease and wild speculative fluctuations will dominate the world curren- cy markets.
America is already feeling the change since the ATM networks were removed from service. "As we have seen, the transportation facilities of this country, and indeed the world, are totally dependent on computers and therefore vulnerable.
That is why today we take so seriously the threats against the airlines.
The children of this great country will have as much opportunity to contribute as their parents will, and as the leaders of business will.
As we all will and all must. "In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the very structure of our country is in imminent danger of collapse, and it is up to us, indeed it is within our power, to survive.
The sacrifices we will be called upon to make may be great, but the alternative is unacceptable. "Indeed, this is a time where the American spirit is called upon to shine, and shine brightly.
Thank you, and God Bless the United States of America." * * * * * Sunday, January 24 Scarsdale, New York "One fuckuva speech," Tyrone Duncan said to Scott Mason who was downing the last of a Coors Light.
You should be proud of yourself.
They had watched the President's speech on Scott's large screen TV. "Ahhhh," grunted Scott.
It's almost anti-climatic." "How the hell can you say that?
Isn't this what you've been trying to do?
Get people to focus on the prob- lem?
Christ, you can't do much more than a Presidential speech." "Oh, yeah," agreed Scott cynically.
Everyone knows, but not a damn thing's gonna be done about it.
I don't care what the President says, nothing's going to change." "You have become one cynical bastard.
Even Congress is behind the President on this one.
His post-speech popularity is over 70% according to CNN's Rapid Sample Poll." "CNN.
And you think the proposed computer crime bills will pass?
Scott asked doubtfully. Tyrone hesitated.
And you don't?" "No, I don't.
At least not in any meaningful way.
C'mon, you're the constitutionalist not me.
Sure, the original authors of the bill will write something with punch, maybe even effective.
But by the time it gets committee'd to death, it'll be another piece of meaningless watered down piece of shit legislation.
And that's before the states decide that computer crime is a state problem and not an inter-state issue.
They'll say Uncle Sam is treading on their turf and put up one helluva stink.
Scott shook his head discouragingly.
I see nothing but headaches." "I think you just feel left out, like your job's done and you have nothing to do anymore.
Ty rose from the comfortable leather reading chair to get a couple more beers.
I kind of know how you feel." Scott looked up at Tyrone in bewilderment.
We've made up my mind.
Tyrone craned his neck from the kitchen.
Arlene and I, that is.
Tyrone came back and threw a silver bullet at Scott.
This part of my life is over and it's time I move on to something else." "Computers and the Law I suppose?
Scott said drearily. "Don't make it sound like the plague," Tyrone laughed.
I'm doing it because I want to, and it's needed.
In fact I would expect a good amount of the work to be pioneering.
Pro bono. There's no case history; it'll be precedent setting law.
I figure someone's got to be there to keep it honest.
And who better than . . .
Tyrone spread his arms around the back of the chair. "You, I know.
Scott laughed at his own joke which triggered a similar response from Tyrone.
Hey, man. I wish you all the best, if that's what you really want." A sudden beeping began.
What's that?" asked Tyrone. "A computer begging for attention.
Let me see who it is." Tyrone followed Scott into his office, still astonished that anyone could work in such a pig pen.
And the rest of the house was so neat. <<<<<<CONNECTION>>>>>> The computer screen held the image of the single word while whoever was calling caused Scott's computer to beep incessantly. "What the hell?
Scott said out loud as he pecked at the keyboard standing rather than sitting at his desk. wtfo YOU'RE THERE.
WANNA GO TO A DEBATE? Excuse me? YOU WATCH THE PRESIDENT? Of course.
I have a mild interest in the subject. SO DID I AND EVERY OTHER PHREAK IN THE COUNTRY, AND THEY'RE NOT HAPPY. Why? SEE FOR YOURSELF.
I GOT YOU AN INVITE. I have a guest. FRIEND OR FOE friend. definitely. REMEMBER HOW TO USE MIRAGE? I can fake it. To Tyrone's amazement, Scott seemed to know what he was doing at the computer.
Scott sat down, put his electronic conversation with Kirk on hold, and called up another program as the colorful screen split into two. I got you on the bottom window. YOU'LL SEE THE PIT ON THE TOP.
JOIN IN WHEN YOU WANT. Maybe I'll just listen. WHATEVER.
But who's in control now? From my viewpoint, it's not you and it's not the government.
Minimize the damage, help defend the Global Network. HE MAKES A POINT.
I CAN'T PLAY INTO THEIR DECEIT AND TREACHERY. <<POLTERGEIST>> DO YOU THINK THE FREEDOM LEAGUE IS DOING GOOD? <<KIRK>> OF COURSE NOT. <<PHASER>> That's Homosoto.
NEMO already helped. ONLY THOSE THAT AGREE.
HOMOSOTO WANTS TO CLOSE THE NETWORK DOWN. BY SCARE TACTICS. <<RAMBO>> THAT DOESN'T CHANGE THE FACT THAT THE FASCIST GOVERNMENT WILL TAKE EVERYTHING AWAY. <<PHASER>> Only if they have to.
Wouldn't you rather help and keep that from happening? IF I TRUSTED THE GOVERNMENT. <<PHASER>> Can I introduce you to someone?
His handle is FBI. KIRK, WHAT ARE YOU DOING, GIVING US AWAY? <<POLTERGEIST>> THEY'RE TIED IN ON MIRAGE.
THEY CAN PLAY BUT THERE'S NO REDIAL. <<KIRK>> Gentlemen, this is the FBI.
I don't agree with hacking, theft of service and the like.
But I also am pragmatic.
I recognize the difference between the lesser of two evils.
And as of today, based upon what I know, you guys are a pain the ass, but not a threat to national security.
That is why Washington has taken little interest in your activities.
But at the same time, you are part of an underground that has access to the electronic jungle in which we find ourselves.
We would like your help. OFFICIALLY? <<PHASER>> No, unofficially.
I am law enforcement, associated with ECCO, if you've ever heard of them. ECCO.
DID YOU EVER CATCH THE GUY WHO STOPPED THE SHUTTLE FLIGHT? <<POLTERGEIST>> Sadly, no. I am talking to you as a friend of Scott's.
And I will tell you, that anything I learn I will use to fight Homoso- to's attack.
But frankly, you are little fish.
I don't know who you are, nor do I really care.
In all honesty, neither does Washington, the NSA or anyone else.
You're merely an underground protest group.
If anything, you help keep us honest.
NOW. <<PHASER>> This is Mason.
At the expense of true freedom?
By your logic, you may end up with no Compuserve.
Or, they'll be so restricted that you'll never get on them. IT'LL HAPPEN ANYWAY. <<PHASER>> And you'll just speed up the process.
What do you have to lose by helping out? I WANT TO CONTINUE HELPING.
We need a complete list of phone numbers for every Free- dom BBS.
They provide wide distribution of infected software. WE KNOW.
BFD. <<PHASER>> This is FBI.
We want to shut them down. HOW? <<KIRK>> We have our means. SEE WHAT I MEAN!
BUT IF YOU ASK SOMETHING THEY CLAM UP. <<PHASER>> All right.
If it works you'll find out anyway.
There are a number of underused laws, and we want to keep this on a Federal level.
USC 1029, 1030, 2134 - they're a bunch of them including racketeering.
I PHREAK FOR PHREEDOM. <<POLTERGEIST>> Then you also know, that you have to really be on someone's shit list to get the FBI after you.
Right now, Homosoto and his gang are on our shit list big time. THEN WHEN YOU'RE THROUGH WITH THEM, IT'S US NEXT.
THEN WHO'S LEFT? <<PHASER>> RIGHT. <<POLTERGEIST>> We can argue forever.
All I'm saying is we could use whatever help you can give us.
And I honestly don't care who you are. Unless of course you're on my shit list. FBI HUMOR. <<KIRK>> WHAT ELSE DO YOU NEED? <<RAMBO>> As many signatures as possible.
We figure that there are thou- sands of you out there, and you can probably do a better job than any government security group punching in at nine and out at five.
You have more people, no bureaucracy and a bigger sample of the software population. SIGNATURES?
NO QUESTIONS ASKED? <<PHASER>> None.
Also, rumors. WHAT KIND OF RUMORS? <<KIRK>> Like who might want to disrupt the Air Reservations System. YOU'RE KIDDING? <<POLTERGEIST>> I wish I was.
You see, we are up against the wall. THAT COULD REALLY FUCK THINGS UP. <<POLTERGEIST>> REALLY! <<KIRK>> IS IT REALLY THAT BAD? <<POLTERGEIST>> Worse. MAYBE I'LL THINK ABOUT IT. <<POLTERGEIST>> ME TOO. <<PHASER>> MASON.
I'M GOING TO CUT YOU OFF. <<KIRK>> It won't be the first time. <<<<<<CONNECTION TERMINATED>>>>>> Tyrone stretched his limbs searching for a bare place to sit down.
Leaning over Scott's shoulders for the slow paced computer conversation stiffened his muscles.
Scott motioned to slide whatever was in the way, out of the way, to which Tyrone com- plied. "Dedicated mother fuckers.
Ty sat back in thought.
What do you think they'll do?" "I don't think, I know," said Scott confidently.
Most of them will help, but they won't admit it.
They openly distrust you, Washington and me.
But they value their freedom, and instinc- tively they will protect that.
Kirk will be the conduit.
I'm not worried." "And what will they do?" "Once they get around to it, they'll commandeer every hacker in the country and at least stop the viruses.
I think that we need to elicit their trust, and I can do that by giving them more than they give me." "Can you do that?" "Just watch.
The actual article had also been transmitted to the White House, prior to publication, as agreed. "And Mason seems to be living up to his part of the bargain," Jacobs continued.
He only edits out the bullshit, pardon my French.
Gives the public their money's worth." "You said we were close.
Musgrave tended to run these meetings; it was one of the perks of being the President's Number One. "His organization was a lot more comprehensive than we thought," Henry Kennedy said.
We underestimated his capabilities, but we caught the essence of his weapons by good guessing." "If we could get our hands on this Spook character," sighed Martin Royce.
He was thinking of the perennial problems associ- ated with identifying the exact location of someone who doesn't want to be found. "That's not the problem," said Chief of Staff Phil Musgrave.
We know who the Spook is, but we can't prove it.
It's only hearsay, even with Mason's testimony, and it's a pretty damn safe bet he won't be inclined to testify.
But Marv has given us a ton on him.
After all, he is Marv's fault." "You guys sort that out on your own time," yawned Phil.
For now, though we need to know what we're up against." "If the President hadn't gone on television last night, we might have been able to keep this quiet and give the press some answers in a few days.
Marv said. "Dream on," Phil said emphatically.
Mason broke the story and we were caught with our pants down.
The President did not, and I repeat, did not, want to be associated with any cover up . . ." "I didn't say cover up . . ." "He wants to take his lumps and fix it.
He will not lie to the American people." "If we shut Mason up.
Marv suggested. "We need him right where he is," Henry Kennedy said about Scott to stem the escalating argument. "The subject is closed.
Phil's comment silenced the room. After all was said and done, Musgrave was the closet thing to the President in the room.
As with the President, the discussion was over, the policy set, now let's get on with it.
This stuff will be in today's morning paper and you classify it?" "There are guidelines for classification," Marvin insisted.
We follow them to the letter." "And every letter gets classified." muttered Royce under his breath.
The pragmatist in him saw the lunacy of the classifica- tion process, but the civil servant in him recognized the impos- sibility of changing it.
Marv ignored the comment and opened his folder. "Thanks, Phil," began Marv.
Well, I'll give it to him, Foster that is.
Do we have any reason to disbelieve him?" "Other than attacking his own country?
No, no reason at all." Marvin showed total disdain for Foster.
His vehemence quieted the room, so he picked up where he left off. "The first thing he did was establish a communications network, courtesy of AT&T.
If Foster is right, then his boys have more doors and windows in and out of the phone company computers than AT&T knows exist.
For all intents and purposes, they can do anything with the phone system that they want. "They assign their own numbers, tap into digital transmissions, reprogram the main switches, create drop-dead billings, keep unlimited access lines and Operator Control.
If we do locate a conversation, they're using a very sophisticated encryption scheme to disguise their communications.
In order for his plan to work, he had to insure that every computer in the country was infected." "Thus the dGraph situation?
Quinton Chambers finally began to look awake. "And the Lotus Viruses, and the Freedom software," Henry said. "What about FTS-2000?
He was asking about the new multi-billion dollar voice and data communications network.
FTS stands for Federal Telecommunications System. "I have no doubt that it's in the same boat," suggested Marv. "But we have no sure data yet.
We should ask Scott to ask Fos- ter." "What could happen?" "Worst case?
In the last 14 years, of the viruses that have been confirmed, the longest gestation period, from release to detonation . . .was eight months.
And that one was discovered a couple of weeks after they were re- leased.
What Foster counted on was the fact that if software behaved normally, it wouldn't be suspect.
And if it became popular, it was automatically above suspicion.
He was right." "I've heard that every computer is infected?" "At the minimum, yes.
Jacobs turned the pages of his dossier. "To continue, one of Foster's most important tools was the con- struction of road maps." "Road maps?" questioned Phil. "Connections, how it all ties together.
How MILNET ties to INTERNET to DARPANET to DockMaster, then to the Universities." Marv wove a complex picture of how millions of computers are all interconnected.
Foster knew what he was doing.
He called this group Mappers.
The maps included the private nets, CompuServe, The Source, Gemini, Prodigy . . .BBS's to Tymenet . . .the lists go on forever.
The road maps, according to Foster, were very detailed.
The kind of computer, the operating system, what kind of security if any.
They apparently raked through the hacker bulletin boards and complied massive lists of passwords for computers . . ." "Including ours?" asked Quinton Chambers. "Quite definitely.
They kept files on the back doors, the trap doors and the system holes so they could enter computers unde- tected, or infect the files or erase them . . .take a look at Social Security and the IRS.
Martin?" Treasury Secretary Royce nodded in strong agreement.
We got hit but good.
We still have no idea how many hundreds of thousands of tax records are gone forever, if they were ever there.
So far it's been kept under wraps, but I don't know how long that can continue.
The CDN has been nothing but trouble.
We're actually worse off with it than without it." "How can one person do all of that?
Chambers had little knowl- edge of computers, but he was getting a pretty good feel for the potential political fallout. "One person!
He pointed at his copy of the Secret documents.
Phil spouted the current political party line as well as it was understood. "Retaliation against the United States was the motivation, and to hell with the cost." "Homosoto obviously took Foster's advice when it came to Propa- ganda," Marv continued.
The FBI, I believe, saw the results of a concentrated effort at creating distrust in computers.
We've got a team working on just finding the blackmailers.
Their version of a disinformation campaign was to spread the truth, the secret undeniable truths of those who most want to keep their secrets a secret." "That's also where the banks got hit so hard," offered Henry Kennedy.
Tens of thousands of credit card numbers were spirited away from bank computers everywhere.
You can imagine the shock when tens of millions of dollars of purchases were contested by the legitimate credit card holders." "It's bad," agreed Royce. "And we haven't even seen the beginning yet, if we believe Fos- ter.
Some specialized in Tempest-Bust- ing . . ." "Excuse me?" asked Quinton Chambers. "Reading the signals broadcast by computers," Marv said with some derision.
The Secretary of State should know better, he thought. "It's a classified Defense program.
He paused while Chambers made a note.
Others used stolen EMP-T bomb technology to blow up the Stock Exchange and they even had antennas to focus HERF . . ." "HERF?" laughed Phil. "HERF," said Marv defensively.
High Energy Radiated Fields. Pick a frequency, add an antenna, point and shoot.
Your computer's history." "You're kidding me . . ." "No joke.
We and the Soviets did it for years; Cold War Games," said Kennedy.
Marv continued. "They were to design and release malicious software from inside the company.
Powerful technique if you can find enough bodies for the dirty work." "Again, according to Foster, Homosoto said that there was never a manpower problem," Marv said.
He's confident that an Arab group is involved somewhere.
The MacDonald's accident was caused by Arabs who . . ." "And we still can't get shit out of the one who we're holding. The only one that's left.
Troubleaux was shot by an Arab . . .the FBI is working hard on that angle.
They've given themselves extraordinary covers.
Phil was always on top of those things that might have a political cause and/or effect.
How extensive an operation was this?" Marvin Jacobs ruffled through some notes in his files.
It's hard to be sure.
If Homosoto followed all of Foster's plan, I would guess 3 - 5,000 people, with a cost of between $100 - $300 Mil- lion.
But mind you, that's an uneducated guesstimate." Quinton Chambers dropped his pen on the table.
Are you telling us that one man is bringing the United States virtually to its knees for a couple of hundred million?
Marv reluctantly nodded. "Gentlemen, this is incredible, more than incredible . . .does the President know?" Even Phil Musgrave was antsy with the answer to that question. "Not in any detail, but he is very concerned.
As for the cost, terrorism has never been considered expensive." "Well thank you Ron Ziegler, for that piece of information," scowled Chambers.
So if we know all of this, why don't we pick 'em all up and get this over with and everything working again?" "Foster claims he doesn't know who anyone other than Homosoto is. He was kept in the dark.
That is certainly not inconsistent with the way Homosoto is known to do business - very compartmental- ized.
He didn't do the recruitment, he said, and all communica- tions were done over the computer . . .no faces, no names.
If it wasn't for Mason, we wouldn't even know that Foster is the Spook. I consider us very lucky on that point alone." "What are we going to do?
Royce and Chambers both sounded and looked more concerned than the others.
Their agencies were on the front line and the most visible to the public. "For the government we can take some mandatory precautions.
For the private sector, probably nothing . . ." "Unless.
Phil said quietly. "Unless what?
All heads turned to Phil Musgrave. "Unless the President invokes martial law to protect the country and takes control of the computers until we can respond.
Without the reliable operation of our MIS systems, our customers cannot be serviced and the company will suffer tremendous losses.
Rates will undoubtedly rise unless we protect ourselves." Similar sentiments were echoed by most industry leaders.
IBM announced it would be closing all of its computer centers for between two and four weeks to effect a complete cleansing of all systems and products.
A spokesperson for IBM said, "If our computers are threatened, we will take all necessary steps to protect our investment and the confidence of our customers.
In addition, the NSA has asked all long distance carriers to, effective immediately, deny service to any digital communications until further notice.
The Presi- dential Order gives the NSA virtual control over the use of our long distance services.
Without the ability to transmit digital data packets, we can expect a severely negative impact on our first quarter earnings . . .
While neither AT&T nor the other long distance carriers indicated they would defy the executive decree, they did say that their attorneys were investigating the legality of the mandate. The NSA, though, was quick to respond to criticism.
All the NSA and its policies are trying to achieve is a massive reduction in the rate of propagation of the Homosoto Viruses, eliminate fur- ther infection, so we can isolate and immunize as many computers as possible.
This will be a short term situation only.
They propose that com- puter security be required by law. "We feel that it would be prudent to ask the private sector to comply with minimum security levels.
The C2 level is easy to reach, and will deter all but the most dedicated assaults.
It is our belief that as all cars are manufactured with safety items such as seat belts, all computer should be manufactured with security and information integrity mechanisms in place.
C2 level will meet 99% of the public's needs.
In 1987 Congress passed a law saying that the government had to protect 'sensitive but unclassified data' to a minimum C2 level by 1992.
Look where we are now!
Not even close, and now they expect to secure 100 times that many in one tenth the time?
No way." Another critic said, "C2?
Europe is going by ITSEC and they laugh at the Orange Book.
If you're going to make security a law, at least do it right." NSA also had words for those computers which do not fall under the umbrella of the proposed legislation.
And here's a paid for ticket.
So was every other airline that used the National Reservation Service or Saber.
Some flights though, were not so busy. "What kind of load we have tonight, Sally?" asked Captain David Clark.
Two passengers." By midnight, the entire air traffic system was in total chaos. Empty airplanes sat idly in major hubs awaiting passengers that never came.
Pilots and flight crews waiting for instructions as take-offs from airports all but ceased.
Overbooking was so rampant that police were called into dozens of airports to re- store order.
Every single AT&T long distance phone call goes through these switches and is labeled by an IAM with where the call came from and where it's going.
What we're looking for is the high usage digital lines.
So the phone company is kind enough to send us a list of every call.
We get about seven million an hour." "We can handle that?" "We have enough to handle ten times that." "I forget about the international monitors.
That's millions more calls a day we listen to." "Yessir.
The computers go through every call and make a list of digital calls.
Then we get a list of all billing records and start crunching.
We compare the high usage digital lines with the phone numbers from the bills and look for patterns.
We look to see if it's a private or business line, part of a private PBX, hours and days of usage, then who owns the line.
Obviously we eliminate a great many from legitimate businesses.
After inten- sive analysis and profile comparison, we got a a few thousand candidates.
What we decided to look for was two things. "First, we listen to the lines to make sure it's a computer.
If it is, we get a look at the transmissions.
If they are encrypt- ed, they get a red flag and onto the Hit List." "The President bought this?" "We told him we'd only need the records for a short time, and then we would dispose of them.
He agreed." "What a sucker.
The FYI, Freeflow of Your Information says that passage of the Computer License Law will give the federal government the unrestricted ability and right to invade our privacy.
The enforcement clauses of the bill essentially give the police the right to listen to your computer.
That is a simple invasion of privacy, and we will not permit a precedent to be set.
We lost too much freedom under Reagan." Proponents of the bill insist that the low fee, perhaps only $10 per year per computer, is intended to finance efforts at keeping security technology apace with computer technology.
We have learned our lesson the hard way, and we now need to address the problem head on before it bites us again.
They cite the example of England, where televisions have been licensed for years, with the fees dedicated to supporting the arts and maintaining broad- casting facilities. "Does not apply," says Dr. Kirschner.
With a television, there isn't an issue of privacy.
A computer is like an electronic diary, and that privacy must be respected at all costs." "And," he adds, "that's England, not the U.S..
Scott said sleepily. "You want or no?
Tyrone Duncan answered with irritation. "Yeah, yeah, I want," Scott grumbled.
What time is it?" "Four A.M. Why?" "I won't make the morning . . ." "I'm giving you six hours lead.
Quit bitching." "O.K., O.K., what is it?" "Don't sound so grateful." "Where the hell are you?
Scott asked sounding slightly more awake. "At the office." "At four?" "You're pushing your luck . . ." "I'm ready." "It looks like your NEMO friends were right.
There are bunches of viruses.
ECCO received reports of a quar- ter million computers going haywire yesterday.
There's gotta be ten times that number that haven't been reported." "Whose?" "Everybody for Christ's sake.
Apparently the city hall of Fallsworth was contacted by representatives of Apple Computer.
Would they like to be part of an experiment? Apple Computer provided every home and business in the Fallsworth area with a computer and the necessary equipment to tie all of the computers together into one town-wide network.
The city was a pilot program for the Electronic City of the future.
When the orders arrived at the Drucker computer, the goods just had to be loaded in the pick up truck.
They were so efficient, they expanded their business into nearby Darbywell, Idaho, population, 5,010. Today, Fallsworth, Idaho doesn't use its computers.
They forgot how to live and work and play and function without their computers.
Who are the slaves? The viruses of Lotus, of dGraph.
The viruses of Freedom struck, and no one in the entire town had registration cards.
And there were a lot of them at the moment.
Some special- ized in tracing missing electronic funds, some in working with the phone company through the NSA.
More than any other goal, the FBI wanted desperately to locate as many of the invisible agents that the Spook, Miles Foster, had told Homosoto to use.
There hadn't been such a blanket approval of overtime since the Kennedy assassination. The FBI followed up the leads generated by the computers at the NSA.
Who and where were the likely associates of Homosoto and Foster? His phone rang - the private line that bypasses his secretary- startling Tyrone from the deep thought in which he was immersed. On a Saturday.
Do you have to . . ." "Do you know anybody else that is capable of moving freely in those circles?
It's not exactly our specialty," reprimanded Tyrone. "In theory it's great," Bob reluctantly agreed, "but there are so damn many exposures.
Tyrone said in negotiation. Keep Bob officially uninformed and unofficially informed.
You don't know that NEMO has helped to identify four of the black- mailers and a handful of the Freedom Freaks.
You don't know that we have gotten more reliable information from Mason's kids than from ECCO, CERT, NIST and NSA combined.
They're up in the clouds with theory and conjecture and what-iffing themselves silly. NEMO is in the streets.
A remote control informer if you like." "What else don't I know?" "You don't know that NEMO has been giving us security holes in some of our systems.
You don't know that Mason's and other hackers have been working on the Freedom viruses." "Some systems?
Why not all?" "They still want to keep a few trapdoors for themselves." "See what I mean!" exclaimed Burnson.
They can't be trusted." "They are not on our payroll.
Besides, it's them or no one," Tyrone calmly said.
We have to cap this one, Ty.
It's too hot. This is so far from policy I think we could be shot." "You know nothing.
Nothing." But Burnson and the FBI and the White House all knew they wanted Foster.
Tyrone instinctively knew as did Scott, that Miles Foster was the Spook.
Other than meager unsubstantiated circum- stantial evidence, though, there was still no convincing legal connection between Miles Foster and the Spook.
Including those contained in the computers?
Many people see a strong possibility of a swell of Wall Street investor demands to secure the computers of pub- licly held companies.
The SEC is planning on issuing a set of preliminary regulations for firms under its aegis. Last week, a group of 10,000 Alytech, Inc. stockholders filed the first class action suit along this vein.
They are suing the current board of directors for " . . .willful dereliction of fiduciary responsibility in the adequate security and protection of corporate information, data, communications and data process- ing and communications equipment.
The dGraph virus, the Lotus viruses and the Novell viruses were among those that infected over 34,000 of the company's computers around the world; bringing the company to a virtual halt for over two weeks.
Bicycles, free from a winter of hiding in ga- rages, fill the streets and parks.
All of Paris enjoys the first stroll of the year. Coats and jackets are prematurely shed in favor of t-shirts and skimpy tank-tops and the cafes teem with alfresco activity.
He mentally noted the incon- gruity between the aura of peace that Paris radiated with its often violent history.
He hoped nothing today would break that spell. A sudden slap on the back aroused Templer from his sun warmed daydream.
He turned his head in seeming boredom.
You'd make a lousy pickpocket." "That's why I avoided a life of crime.
Alexander Spiradon was immaculately dressed, down to the properly folded silk handker- chief in his suit jacket.
How are you today my friend?
Did I interrupt your reverie?" Templer swung his London Fog over his shoulder.
His casual slacks and stylish light weight sweater contrasted severely with Alex's comfortable air of formality.
I don't get here often. Paris is a very special place," Templer mused, turning from his view of the city to face his old comrade. "It is indeed," agreed Alex.
Then why do you look so melan- choly?
Does Paris bring you memories of sadness?" "I hope not," Templer said, eyes down. "You didn't give me much notice," Alex said good naturedly.
I left the most beautiful woman in the world in a jacuzzi at St. Moritz." "No, I'm sorry.
I know I didn't, but it was urgent.
A slight breeze caused Templer to shiver.
He slowly put on his tan rain coat and looked right into Alex's eyes.
I'm going to ask you straight." Alex confidently grinned.
Ask what?" "Was Taki Homosoto a client of yours?
The biting words seemed to have little impact on Alex. "My clients trust me to keep their identities confidential.
The expression on Alex's face didn't change. "The guy's dead.
What the hell can it hurt?
Templer laughed. "What's he gonna do?
Sue you for breach of contract?" Alex didn't say a word.
He saw Templer laugh the confident laugh of a chess player one move from checkmate and he realized how un- comfortable a position this was for him.
How do you behave when you're on the losing end of the stick?
Alex was thinking like he cared what Templer knew or thought.
In reality, though, he didn't care any more about what anyone thought of him.
He had enough money, more than enough money, to lead a lavish lifestyle without worry.
So what did it matter.
As friends nothing would change between him and Martin.
But professionally, that was a different matter. "I'd love to tell you, but, it's a matter of ethics," Alex said happily.
You understand." "It really doesn't matter," laughed Templer.
Must have been a very profitable endeavor." "I saved a little and made prudent investments," Alex lied and Templer knew it.
No need to push the point. "How well did Sir George do?
He wouldn't tell us." Alex stopped in his tracks and glared at Martin with a blank emotionless expression for several seconds until his deep set brown eyes began to twinkle.
A knowing smile and nod of recog- nition of accomplishment followed, telling Martin he had hit a home run.
They both began walking again, as if on cue.
For future edification, how did you find him?" "Them.
Sir George was the most helpful, though." "I remember him.
Real character, kind of helpless but with the gift of gab.
Alex seemed unconcerned that any of his network had been discovered.
He talked?" "Second rate criminal.
Definitely deportable." "And you made him an offer he couldn't refuse." "Something like that," Templer said coyly.
Let's just say he prefers the vineyards of California to the prisons in England." Alex nodded in understanding.
How'd you find him?" "Telephone records." "That's impossible," Alex said, shrugging off Martin's answer. "Never underestimate the power of silicon," Martin said crypti- cally. "Computers?
No way," Alex said defiantly.
Every year there are almost 40 billion calls made within the United States alone. There's no way to trace that many calls." "Who needs to trace?
Thus far. "The phone company is kind enough to keep records of every call made.
Both local and long distance.
They're all rather com- plete.
From what number, to what number, if it's forwarded, to what number and at what time and for how long.
They also tell us if the calls were voice, fax, or other types of communications. It even identifies telephone connections that use encryption. Believe me, those are flagged right off." "You monitor every conversation?
I thought it was just the overseas calls.
The threat of terrorism inside the United States has reached unacceptable levels, and we had the capability.
It was just a matter of flipping the switch." "Since when can you do that?
Alex asked, stunned that he had overlooked, or underestimated a piece of the equation. "Since the phone company computers were connected to the Fort. And, I guarantee you, it's not something they want advertised," Martin said in a low voice.
How many did you get?" "How many are there?" "That would be telling," Alex said coyly. "I assume, then, that you would be averse to helping us out of our current dilemma.
Being friends with potential adversaries made this part of the job all the more difficult. "Well," Alex said turning his head toward Martin.
I guess I could be talked into one more job, just one, if the price was right." Templer shook his head.
That's not the right answer." Alex was taken off guard by the sullenness in Martin's voice. "Right answer?
There are no right and wrongs in our business. Only shades of gray.
We ride a fence, and the winds blow back and forth.
It's not personal." Martin straightened up and put both hands deep into the pockets of his London Fog.
But Sir George and his cronies, and you by default, broke the rules. Civilians are off limits.
We were hoping that you would want to help." Alex ignored the second request.
I won't do it again.
I prom- ise," he said haughtily. "Is there anything I can say that will make you reconsider? Anything at all?
Martin implored. "No," Alex said.
Unless we can discuss an equitable arrange- ment." Martin took his hands out of his pockets and said, "I don't think that will work.
I'm sorry." "Sorry?" Martin quickly moved his right hand up to Alex's neck and touched it briefly.
Alex reached up and slapped his neck as terror overtook his face.
He grabbed Martin's arm and twisted it with his free hand to expose a small needle tipped dart projecting from a ring on one finger.
Templer wrested his arm free from Alex's weakening clutch and tore off the ring, tossing it away from the Tower. Alex weakened further as he leaned both hands on the railing to steady himself.
His mouth gaped wide, intense fear and utter disbelief competing for control of his facial muscles.
Martin ignored his collapsing adversary and walked deliberately to the open elevator which provided escape down to street level.
Before the doors had closed, Templer saw a crowd converge over the crumpled body of Alexander Spiradon. Martin Templer crossed the Seine and performed evasive maneuvers to make sure he was not being followed.
The cleansing process took about three hours.
He flagged down a taxi and the most uncooperative driver refused to acknowledge he understood that the destination was the American Embassy on Gabriel.
One ultra modern and sleek, the other befitting a country gentleman. The two were connected by a large anteroom that also provided immediate access and departure by a private elevator and escape stairs.
He could hold two meetings at once as was occasionally required in his position as DIRNSA, Director, National Security Agency.
Each office had its own secretary and private entrance, selected for use depending upon whom was expected. The meeting in the nouveau office was winding down to a close and the conversation had been reduced to friendly banter.
It seems that my presence is required for a small matter.
Would you mind enter- taining yourselves for a few minutes?
He immediately saw the reason for the urgency. "Miles, Miles Foster, my boy!
Marvin Jacobs walked straight to Miles, vigorously shook his hand and gave him a big friendly bear hug. Miles smiled from ear to ear.
It's been cold out there.
He looked around the room and nodded appreciative- ly.
You've been decorating again." "Twice.
You haven't been in this office for, what is it, five years?
Jacobs held Miles by the shoulders.
My God it's good to see you.
You don't look any the worse for wear." "I had a great boss, treated me real nice," Miles said. "Come here, sit down," Marvin said ushering Miles over to a thickly padded couch.
If you don't already know it, this coun- try owes you a debt of thanks." "I know," Miles said, even though he had been paid over three million dollars by Homosoto. "A drink, son?
At fifty-five, the red faced paunch bellied Jacobs looked old enough to be Miles' father, even though they were only fifteen years apart. "Glenfiddich on the rocks.
Totally comfortable and in control of the situation. "Done.
DIRNSA Jacobs pressed a button which caused a hidden bar to be exposed from a mirror paneled wall.
The James Bondish tricks amused Miles.
Excuse me," he said to Miles.
Let me get rid of my other appointments.
Jacobs handed Miles the drink and leaned over his desk speaking into telephone.
Uh, Miss Gree- ley, cancel my dates for the rest of the day, would you please?" "Of course, sir.
The thin female voice came across the speaker phone clearly. "And my regrets to the gentlemen in One." "Yessir.
The intercom audibly clicked off. "So," Marvin asked, "how does it feel to be both the goat and the hero?" "Hey, I fixed it, just like we planned, didn't I?
Miles said arrogantly, but his deep dimples said he was joking.
I remember everything you taught me," he bragged.
Lesson One: If you really want to fix something, first you gotta fuck it up so bad everyone takes notice.
Miles still grinned, his dimples radiating a star pattern across his cheeks.
Jacobs approved whole heartedly. "You were a natural.
From day one." "Homosoto thought that fuck-it to fix-it was entirely too weird at first, so I quit calling it that.
Miles fondly remembered those early conversations.
As you said, it takes a disaster to motivate Americans, and we gave them one." "I'm glad you see it that way," Marvin said obligingly.
It occurred to me that you might have gotten soft on me." "Not a chance.
How many men get to lead armies, first of all.
And I may be the first, ever, to lead an invasion of my own country with my government's approval.
This was a sanctioned global video game.
I should thank you for the opportunity." "That's a hell of a way to look at it, my boy.
You show a lot of courage.
Marvin drank to Miles' health.
It takes men of courage to run a country, and that's what we do; run the country.
Miles had heard many of Marvin's considerable and conservative speeches before, but this one was new.
After over five years, that was to be expected. "It doesn't make a damn bit of difference who the President is. The Government stays the same regardless of who's elected every 4 years.
Marvin continued as Miles listened reverently. "The American public thinks that politicians run the country; they think that they vote for the people who make the policies, who set the tone of the government, but they are so wrong.
Marvin shook his head side to side.
And it's probably just as well that they never find out for sure.
Marv walked around the room drink in hand, gesturing with his hands and arms. "The hundreds of thousands of Government employees, the ones that are here year after year after year, we are the ones who make policy.
The military controls more than any American wants to know.
State Department, Justice, HUD; each is its own monolithic bureaucracy that does not change direction overnight because of some election in Bum- fuck, Iowa.
It takes four years to find your way through the corridors, and by then, odds are you'll be packing back to Maine, or Georgia or California or wherever you came from.
Marvin Jacob's vitriolic oration was grinding on Miles, but he had to listen to his boss. "So when this country gets into trouble, someone has to do some- thing about it.
God knows the politicians won't.
This country was in real trouble and someone had to fix it.
In this case it was me.
It's been a decade since the first warnings about how vulnerable our computers, our economy, shit, our National Securi- ty were.
The reports came out, and Congress decided to ignore them.
Sure, they built up the greatest armaments in the history of civilization, sold the future for a few trillion, but they ne- glected to protect their investment.
Jacobs angrily poured himself another drink. "I couldn't let that happen, so I decided that I needed to expose the weaknesses in our systems before somebody else did.
And what better way than to fuck it up beyond all recognition.
At least this way we were in charge, and we were able to pick the damage.
Lessons tend to be painful, and I guess we're paying for some of our past sins.
He drank thirstily. "Did those sins mean that I would have to be arrested by the FBI? I couldn't say a thing; not the truth.
They'd never have be- lieved me.
Miles shuddered at the thought.
For a moment, I thought you might leave me to rot in jail." "Hey," Marvin said happily.
Didn't our people get you out, just like I promised?
He sounded proud of his efforts.
Besides, most of them were bullshit charges.
Not worth the effort to prosecute." "I never underestimate the power of the acronym," Miles said about the NSA, CIA and assorted lettered agencies.
There was a lot of not so quiet whispering when it was released that the charges were dropped by the Federal Prosecutor.
Think that was smart, so soon?
Maybe we should have waited a couple of months." Jacobs looked up sharply at Miles' criticism of his actions but spoke with understanding.
We needed to get the cameras off of you and onto the real problem; it was the right thing to do. Your part is over.
Now it's up to me to stop it.
It could not have gone any smoother.
It's time for us to take over.
We couldn't ask for any more." Miles sipped at his drink accepting the reasoning and asked, "I've wondered about a few things, since the beginning." "Now's as good a time as any," Marv said edging himself behind his desk.
I'd imagine you have a lot of holes to fill in." "How did you get Homosoto to cooperate?
He seemed to fall right into place." "It was almost too easy," Jacobs commented casually.
We had a number of candidates.
You'd be surprised how many people with money and power hold grudges against Uncle Sam," he snickered. "It's hard to believe, but true." "Meaning, if it wasn't him, it would have been someone else?" "Exactly.
There's no shortage of help in the revenge business. There are still many hibakusha, survivors of Hiroshima and Naga- saki, who still want revenge on us for ending the war and saving so may lives.
That someone like Homosoto is twisted enough to help us, just to fuel his own hatred," Marvin Jacobs asked rhetorically. "But he didn't know he was helping, did he?
Miles asked. "Of course not.
Then he would have been running the show, and this was my production.
No, it worked out just fine." Jacobs paused for more liquor and continued.
Then we have a few European industrialists, ex-Nazis who are available . . .the KGB, GRU, Colombian cartel members.
The list of assets is long. Where's there's money, there's help, and most of them prefer the Yankee dollar to any other form of payment.
They forget that by hurting us they also hurt the world's largest economy, as well as everybody else's and then the fiscal dominoes start falling uncontrollably." "You mean you bought him?
You can't buy a billionaire, but you can influence his actions, if he thinks that it's his idea.
It just so happens that he was the first one to bite.
Health problems and all." "What problems?" "In all likelihood it's from the radiation, the Bomb; his doctors gave him a couple of years to live.
Inoperable form of leukemia." "I didn't know . . ." "No one did.
He insisted on complete secrecy.
He had not picked a successor to run OSO, and in some ways he denied the reality." "Excuse my tired old brain, but you're talking Spook-Speak.
How did you know . . .?" "Old habits . . .
As you well know, from your employ here, we have assets in every major company in the world. Especially those companies that buy and sell elected officials in Washington.
OSO and Homosoto are quite guilty of bribing their way into billions of dollars of contracts.
Our assets, you see, can work in two directions.
They let us know what's going on from the inside and give us a leg up on the G2.
Then, we can plant real or false information when needed.
The Cold Economic War." "So you told Homosoto what to do?
Miles followed closely. "Not in so many words.
Marvin wasn't telling all, and Miles knew it.
We knew that through our assets we gave Homosoto and several others the idea that U.S. computers were extremely frag- ile.
Back in 1983 the DoD and CIA prepared classified reports saying that computer terrorism was going to be the international crime of choice in the last decade of the century.
Then the NRC, NSC and DIA issued follow-up reports that agreed with the origi- nal findings.
We saw to it that enough detail reached Tokyo to show just how weak we were." Jacobs continued to tell Miles how the NSA effected the unwitting recruitment of Homosoto.
That, a well timed resignation on your part, and advertising your dissatisfaction with the government made you the ideal person to launch the attack.
Marvin smiled widely holding his drink in the air, toasting Miles. Miles responded by raising his glass.
And then a suicide, how perfect.
Jacobs did not return the salute, and Miles felt sudden iciness.
It was a suicide, wasn't it?" "Miss Perkins was of great help, too," Marvin said ignoring Miles questions. "Perky?
What's she got to do with this?
I guess she was better than we thought.
He looked down to avoid Miles's eyes.
Didn't you think it odd . . .?" "That she introduced me to Homosoto?
Miles asked acrimoniously. "She didn't." "Of course she did," Miles contradicted. "We have a tape of the conversation," Marv disagreed.
All she did was ask you if you would work for a foreigner and under what circumstances.
Perkins' job was to prep you for Homosoto or whoever else we expected to contact you.
An admirable job, huh Miles?
Marvin Jacobs seemed proud of her accomplishments, and given the stunned gaping expression on Miles' face, he beamed even more.
Miles didn't say a word, but his glazed eyes said loud and clear that he felt defiled. "I'm sorry Miles," Marvin said compassionately.
I really as- sumed you knew that she was a toy.
You certainly treated her that way.
If it helps any, she was on Homosoto's payroll.
She was a double." Miles jerked his head back and then let out a long laugh.
Not a fuck- ing clue.
Miles stood from his chair and laughed and smiled at Marvin.
I get blow jobs courtesy of the American taxpayer and you get paid to watch." "Miles, we know how you felt for her . . ." "Bullshit," Miles said quickly.
He pounded on the desk. "She's already on another assignment," Marvin said calmly. Miles couldn't completely hide the dejection, the feeling of loss, no matter how loudly he denied it.
He walked over to the high tech bar and made himself another strong drink.
Perfect drink to get dumped by.
Marvin sat down with his drink and addressed Miles. "Hey," Miles said holding his hands in front of him.
I knew that going into the deal.
I did my job, for my country, and maybe I lose some face, but I didn't do this for fame.
Retiring in style, maybe the Alps is a nice consolation prize.
The pain, so evident seconds ago about Stephanie, was gone.
Miles gloated in his achievement. A low warble came from the phone on Marvin's desk.
He read a message that appeared on the small message screen attached to the phone and struck a few keys in response.
At that moment, the double doors from the Office-2 reception opened and in came Tyrone Duncan and two other FBI agents.
Miles turned to see who was interrupting their meeting.
It was the same man who had arrested him a few weeks before. Miles gulped deeply and felt his heart skip a beat.
What the hell is going on', he thought.
He quickly glanced at Jacobs.
His pulse and respiration increased to the point of skin sweat and near hyper-ventilation. Tyrone spoke to the Director.
Mr. Jacobs, we are here to see Mr. Foster.
Jacobs gestured to Miles in the deep chair across from the marble desk. Miles' mind raced.
And Duncan again? "Mr. Foster," Tyrone Duncan said.
You are under arrest for violation of the espionage and sedition laws of the United States of America.
In addition, you are charged with violating the Official Secrets Act and . . .
Tyrone read off 94 federal crimes including racketeering and 61 assorted counts of conspiracy. As Tyrone read the extended list of charges, Miles shook to his core, turned to Marvin in abject terror.
His face cried out, 'please, help me.
Jacobs watched with indifference as Tyrone continued with the new charges. "You have the right to remain silent . . .
Tyrone read Miles his Miranda rights as he lifted him from the chair to put on the cuffs. "Marv!
This is a joke, and it's not funny . . .Marv . . .Jesus Fucking Christ!
Miles struggled like an animal.
He thought he was free.
I'm the fucking fish food. Aren't I?
Marv," he shouted even louder.
Aren't I?" "It seems to me that you've dug your own grave, son.
I can't tell you how disappointed I am in your actions.
Jacobs played the role perfectly. "You fucking liar!
The President doesn't even know about what I did for you?
Miles was screaming as Tyrone and another agent restrained him by the arms.
You told me that this project had approval from the highest level." "Are you mad?
Marvin sounded like a caring parent admonishing a misbehaving lad who knew no better.
Do you think that he would have approved of such a plan?
Is that why you went to Homosoto?
Because we said you were crazy?" "You told me he approved it!
About that, about Stephanie, what else have you lied to me about?" Jacobs sat silently as Tyrone turned the handcuffed Miles toward the door. "Why don't you just admit it?
I'm the fucking fall guy for your scheme, aren't I?
Admit it goddamnit, admit it!" Jacobs looked down at his desk and shook his head from side to side as if he were terribly disappointed. "I'll get you, I will get you for this," Miles shrieked.
I trusted you, like a father and then you fuck me.
Fucked me like every other dumb shit that works here.
Suck my dick!" he shouted with finality. Tyrone tugged at Miles to keep him from the Director's desk.
Is there anything else Director Jacobs?" "Yes, Agent Duncan, here.
Jacobs opened a drawer and pulled out a large envelope, marked with Miles' name.
Miles stared at it, eyes bulging with fear.
Tyrone looked questioningly at Marvin. "I believe you will find enough in there to put Mr. Foster in Tokyo with Mr. Homosoto at the time he died.
I think the Tokyo Police would be most interested in making a possible case for murder." Miles screamed, "scum bucket!
His vicious verbal assaults were aimed directly at Marvin who ignored them. "You know I had nothing to do . . .goddamn you!
I spend five years of my life helping my country and you . . ." "I think very few would agree that what you've done can be con- sidered helpful." "I will get even!
Miles' voice was getting hoarse from the outrageous tirade. DIRNSA Marvin Jacobs raised his right hand to Tyrone indicating that Miles was dismissed.
Miles continued bellowing at Marvin and Tyrone and the two other agents tried to keep him in tow. When they had left, and the door closed behind them, Jacobs pushed a button on his phone and spoke casually. "Miss Greeley?
Quarter Leading Indicators Dismal Deep Recession Predicted If 4th.
Computers, mainframes, mini computers, or millions of personal computers - they do in fact control and monitor our every activity, for better or for worse.
A marriage of conven- ience? Now, though, it appears to be for worse. I am reminded of the readings of Edgar Cayce and the stories that surround the myth of Atlantis.
We witnessed our traffic systems come a halt, bringing grid lock to small rural communities.
Our banks had to reconstruct millions upon millions of transactions in the best possible attempt at recon- ciliation.
The defensive readiness of our military was in ques- tion for some time before the Pentagon was satisfied that they had cleansed their computers. The questions that arise are clearly ones to which there are no satisfying responses.
Should 'everyman' have unrestrained access to tools that can obviously be used for offensive and threatening purposes?
Is there a level of responsibility associated with computer usage?
If so, how is it gauged?
Should the businessman be subject to additional regulations to insure security and privacy?
Are additional laws needed to protect the privacy of the average citizen?
They maintain that no matter what, if any, restrictive mandates are placed on computer users, both are an invasion of privacy and violation of free speech have occurred.
You can't regulate a pencil," has become their informal motto emblazoned across t-shirts on campuses everywhere. While neither group has taken any overt legal action, FYI is formidably equipped to launch a prolonged court battle.
Accord- ing to spokesmen for FYI, "the courts are going to have to decide whether electronic free speech is covered by the First Amendment of the Constitution.
If they find that it is not, there will be a popular uprising that will shake the foundation of this coun- try.
I have been known as well to spout statistics; statistics that show the average homemaker today spends more time homemaking than her ancestor 100 or 200 years ago.
I must confess that even though I have written about hackers and computer crime, it is axiomatically true that you don't notice it till it's gone. Allow me to make my point. Have you recently tried to send a fax?
The digital phone lines have been scrupulously pruned, and therefore busy most of the time. The check out lines at the supermarket have cob webs growing over the bar code price scanner.
Have you noticed the near disdain you receive when you try to pay with a credit card?
Its real and perceived value has been flushed right down the toilet. Not that they don't trust my well known face and name, but my credit cards are as suspect as are everybody's.
Even check cashing is scarce.
Seems like the best currency is that old time stand-by, cash.
If you can make it to the bank.
The ATM at my corner has been rented out to a flower peddler. All of this is happening in reasonably affluent Westchester County.
And in impoverished East Los Angeles and in Detroit and Miami and Boston and Atlanta and Dallas as well as a thousand Oshkosh's.
The per- formance of hackers in recent months has contributed as much to the defense of the computers of this country as has the govern- ment itself. An estimated one million computer users categorize themselves or are categorized as hackers.
After the Homosoto bomb was dropped on America, a spontaneous underground ad hoc hacker effort began to help protect the very systems that many of them has been violating only the day before.
Insurance compa- nies, private lending institutions, police departments, hospitals and most major corporations are announcing their intentions to secure their computers against future assaults. * * * * * Foster GUILTY!
Virgin Islands "You must feel pretty good.
Half of the writing awards for last year, nomination for Man of the Year." "The steaks are burning.
The hype had been too much.
Scott alone had to carry forward the standard.
He had become expected to lead a movement of protest and dissent.
Get the sprit- zer, water the coals and then fuck yourself." "Isn't this what you wanted?
Tyrone scanned the exquisite view from the estate sized homestead overlooking Charlotte Amalie Harbor on St. Thomas, U.S.
The safe enclosed harbor housed three cruise ships, but the hundreds of sailboats in the clear Caribbean dominated the seascape. After the last year, Scott had decided to finally take time off for a proper honeymoon.
Her past was her past, and he had to not let it bother him or they would have no future.
Fame was something Scott had not wanted specifically.
He had imagined himself the great transla- tor, making the cacophony of incomprehensible technical polysyl- labics intelligible to 'everyman'.
He had not planned for fame; merely another demand on his time, his freedom and his creativi- ty. "What I wanted was a break.
Scott poked at the steaks.
In the pool Arlene Duncan and Sonja kicked their feet and chattered aimlessly.
The Times made Scott the most generous tenure offers in a generation of writers, and Scott recognized the fairness of the offers.
It was not now, nor had it ever been a question of money, though. "What's next?" "The book, I suppose.
The Trial of Miles Foster." "And then back to the Times?" "Maybe, maybe.
I haven't given it much thought," Scott said watering down the coals to reduce the intensity of the barbecue inferno he had created.
I promised to help out once in a while. Officially they call it a sabbatical." "How long do you think you can hold out on this rock before going nuts?" "We've managed pretty well, so far.
Scott said admiring his bride whose phenomenal physical beauty was tightly wrapped in the high French cut one piece bathing suit that Scott insisted she wear in honor of their more conservative guests.
Tyrone, he was sure, would not have minded Sonja's nudity, but Arlene would have been on the next flight to Boston and her parents. "Three months so far, and nine months to go.
I think I can take it," he said staring at Sonja and motioning to the view. Tyrone silently conveyed understanding for Scott's choice of an island retreat to get away from it all.
But Tyrone's choices demanded his presence within driving distance of civilization. "So the bureau wasn't too upset about your leaving?
Scott changed the subject. "I guess not," Tyrone said laughing.
I was approaching mandato- ry anyway and I'd become too big a pain in their asses.
Using your hackers didn't endear me to too many of the Director's staff." "What about your friend?" "You mean Bob Burnson?" "Yeah, the guy we met at Ebbett's . . ." "He got his promotion right after I left.
I guess I was holding him back," Tyrone said with tongue in cheek.
On the other hand, I could have stayed and really made his life miserable.
Still friends." "I have to say, though, I never thought you'd go through with it," said Scott turning the steaks.
You and the Bureau, a thirty year affair." "Not quite thirty . . ." "Whatever.
You've certainly built up a practice and a half in six months." "Yeah," chuckled Tyrone.
Like you, I never planned on becoming a big player . . .Christ.
Who ever thought that Computer Law would be the next Cabbage Patch Doll of the courts?
Tyrone saw the smirk in Scott's face.
Yes, you predicted a mess in the courts.
Yes, you did Mr. Wisenheimer.
I just saw it as a neat little extension of constitutional law and then whammo! All of sudden, computer litigation is the hip place to be.
And that's fun?" "You're goddamned right, it's fun," Ty asserted, popping another beer from the poolside cooler.
It's a shit load more interest- ing that rotting here," he spread his arms to embrace the lush beauty from their 1500 foot high aerie.
How much sun and peace and quiet and sex and water and beach can one man take?
He spoke loudly, like a Southern Spiritual Minister.
Too much scuba diving and swimming and sailing and sunsets and black starry nights can be bad for your health.
This is a goddamned Hedonist's Heaven.
He brought his hands to his side and gave a resigned sigh.
I guess if you can stomach this kind of life." "Jealous?
He knew about Arlene's reticence to try anything new, out of the ordinary.
She was very pleased with her life in Westchester.
She felt that knowing someone who lived in Paradise whom she could visit once a year was new-ness enough. "No, man," Tyrone said genuinely, speaking as himself again.
I got exactly what I wanted.
He cocked his head at the pool, where Arlene seemed more relaxed than she had in years.
She's miserable, but she's mine.
Scott, you've lived your fantasy, made a difference.
Now, it's my turn." Scott looked over at Arlene.
Hey, shit for brains," he said to Tyrone.
It's what the hell she's doing with you I never understood.
Scott lunged at Tyrone's attention- getting sized abdomen with the steak fork. "Nice and juicy," retorted Tyrone, patting his prominent stomach. "You're not my type.
I cut off the fat," Scott barbed.
Before Tyrone could get in his jibe Scott called out, "Steaks' on.
Outside black, inside mooing." The girls smacked their lips in anticipation and sat in the elegant all weather PVC furniture.
Little did they know, or little did they let on, that they knew the men enjoyed the opportunity to demonstrate their culinary skills without female interference.
Beside, thought Scott, it was the maid's day off. "Seriously, though," Tyrone said quietly as Scott piled the plates with steaks and potatoes.
I know you better than that. I don't see how you can do nothing.
You don't know how to sit your ass still for ten minutes.
It's not your personality. Don't you agree Arlene?" "Yes dear," she said, still talking to Sonja. "And that room you call your office, Jesus.
You have more equip- ment in there than . . ." "It looks like more than it is . . .
Scott downplayed the point. "Mainly communications.
The local phone company is a joke, so I installed an uplink.
No big deal." "C'mon, man, I just can't see you sitting on the sidelines." Tyrone stressed the word 'you'.
Not with what's happening now? There must be a thousand stories out there . . ." "And a thousand and one reporters.
Too much noise, too busy for my liking.
After the Homosoto story, if there's one luxury I've learned to live with, it's that I can pick and choose what I do." Scott spoke much too reserved for the Scott Mason Tyrone knew. "Aha!
So you are up to something.
I gave you one, maybe two months, but I never figured you'd last three." They carried the four plates laden with steaks and potatoes over to the table where their spouses waited.
Fresh beers awaited their much appreciated efforts. "I do get a little itchy and I read a lot.
Tyrone glared at Scott with disbelief.
No really, just a little research," laughed Scott in mock defense.
Tyrone asked accusingly. He suspected Scott was hiding a detail or two. "It's not really a project . . ." "Don't skirt the issue.
When?" Scott lowered his head.
Two weeks after we got here." Tyrone stifled what might otherwise have become a volcanic roar of laughter.
You only lasted two weeks?
How did Sonja feel about that?
He looked over Scott's at better half listen in. "Ah, well, she sort of insisted . . ." "You drove her nuts?
Sonja shook her head vigor- ously in agreement but kept speaking to Arlene Duncan. "Kind of; semi-sorta-kinda-maybe.
Scott grinned impishly. "But, yeah, I have been working on something.
He couldn't keep it to himself. "Dare I ask?" "Off the record?
Scott sounded insistent. "This is a twist.
That's my yearly fee." Scott complied, finding a soaking wet dollar bill in his swim- ming trunks.
He laid it next to Tyrone's plate. "Well?
Tyrone asked with great interest. "Well, I discovered we never developed the A-Bomb to end World War II." "Excuse me?" "Someone gave it to us." **************************************************************** THE END We appreciate your support of NOVEL-ON-THE-NET Shareware.
THE ONLINE WORLD The Online World book's text on paper, disk and in any other electronic form is (C) copyrighted 1993 by Odd de Presno.
It deals with the practical aspects of using the rapidly growing global online information resource. The book is distributed in a form that is designed to be easily accessible with the maximum range of computers, printer types, and search programs.
Also, it has been designed to be compatible with electronic reading devices for the blind.
These services can be accessed from almost anywhere. Talking about the Internet, we do not expect that it will be easy for you to get full access.
For an introduction to telecommunications, check out appendix 2 and 3 before continuing with Chapter 1. Before you start, one word of warning.
New online offerings are born each day, while others are being closed down.
Chances are that most services in this book will still be around when you read it, but I will need to update the text regularly.
Therefore, all feedback is welcomed with thanks. Please do also tell me what you like, what you don't, and what you feel I may have missed -- or have gotten hopelessly wrong.
Send by electronic mail to me at opresno@extern.uio.no . This book is not free --------------------- The Online World book is NOT public domain.
It is copyrighted work and may be distributed only pursuant to this license. You are granted a limited read and use license of the book to see if it is for you.
Any unregistered use other than to determine if the book meets your needs is a violation of this license and is forbidden. If you like the book, please become a registered reader.
Your contribution will support further research and development of the text. The important benefit of registering is that you will receive the latest version of the book on diskette (MS-DOS only).
This will allow you to have current information on your hard disk that you can search whenever you want to. The online world is dynamic.
Services and offerings come and go.
This will provide consistency for future updates. No copy of this book may be distributed without including a copy of this license.
Any other use, including bundling of any of the book's chapters or appendixes for your own distribution, is prohibited without express, written permission in advance from the author. The Online World book is regularly being updated.
Information about where to get the latest version of the book can be retrieved from TOW, a mailing list set up to support the project.
For information, send electronic mail to LISTSERV@vm1.nodak.edu (LISTSERV@NDSUVM1 on BITNET) containing the command "GET TOW MASTER". How to read the book -------------------- You may read the book using any ASCII viewing or text searching program.
These versions of the book will be adapted to local conditions, and contain many local examples and references. The following local version of the book is available: "Ut i verden fra egen skjerm," Norwegian text, Dataforlaget A/S, 1992.
Fax: +47 22 63 60 09. Price: NOK 245,-.
ISBN: 82-90628-67-6. Local language versions of the book are due be published soon by partners in Denmark and Germany.
For information, please contact: Claus Berg (Denmark) at Claus_Berg@SKOLE-KOM.UNI-C.DK Publisher: Teknisk Forlag A/S, Skelbaekgade 4, 1780 Kbh.V., Denmark.
All rights reserved worldwide. ------------------------------------------------------------- INDEX ===== PREFACE 1.
Going online will make me rich, right? Knowledge is Power.
A larger personal network gives you a stronger punch.
The value of information, and of having a great time. . . 2.
The online world The structure and content of the online offerings.
About Bulletin Board systems, discussion lists, conferencing systems, and online data bases.
About packet data services, and network services like FidoNet, i-Com, Infonet, Internet, and others. A constantly changing environment. 3.
How to use online services Short introduction.
How to use menus, and how to navigate like an expert.
Tailoring online services to your interests and needs. 4.
Hobbies, games, and fun About computer programs, online adventure games, threatening viruses, planning holidays, collecting coins and stamps, genealogy, music, shopping and other leisure activities. 5.
Home, education, and work Tips for house owners, for those more concerned about money, about education and the exchange of knowledge, electronic conferences. Building a personal network.
Job hunting by modem, and about working from home. 6.
Your personal healthnet About support for diseases like AIDS, cancer, and kidney diseases. Forums for people with physical or mental disabilities, like hearing impairments, learning disabilities, vision impairment, mobility problems. 7.
Electronic mail, telex, and fax How to communicate globally at a ridiculously low cost, with notes about how to address your global electronic mail. 8.
Free expert assistance How to get free advice about your computer, software and other things. 9.
Your electronic daily news Read national and global news before getting it through the traditional media.
Get those interesting background facts. Read special interest news that the media never bother to print. 10.
Looking for a needle in a bottle of hay Notes about searching data bases.
How to locate interesting books and articles. 11.
Getting an edge over your competitor Using the networks to manage projects.
Monitor competitors, prospects, suppliers, markets, technologies, and trends. Marketing and sales by modem. 12.
Practical tips How to get more out of the time spent online. 13.
Cheaper and better communications Using packet data services or competing data transport services like Tymnet Outdial, Infonet, Internet, PC Pursuit, and others. 14.
Keep what you find. Build your local personal data base.
Strategies for locating interesting information.
What separates good from bad information. 15.
You pay little for a lot! How to figure out costs. 16.
Automatic communication Get a lead on your competitors. Avoid duplication of effort. Reduce costs. Reduce boring repetitive work. No need to remember all the "tricks" of communications anymore. 17.
Gazing into the future. Thoughts about things to come. --------------------------- Appendices: 1.
List of selected online services 2.
How to get started About your personal computer, modem and communications program. 3.
Your first online trip Getting started.
Typical pitfalls and simple solutions.
Explanation of some frequently used terms 5.
Books and articles for further reading 6.
International standard country codes 7.
How to register --------------------------- Chapter 1: Going online will make me rich, right? ================================================= The number of services is enormous.
One day her doctor joined us on an online research session to look for experiences and advice in other countries. We sat down in my office in Norway.
Soon, a greeting scrolled over our screen, followed by a menu of available choices. For an introduction to practical telecommunications, check out appendix 2 and 3.
Appendix 1 lists major services mentioned in this book. We selected "Health" and the "Data Base for Rare diseases.
This gave the address of an American foundation for "cysts in kidneys," which is the name of her disease.
My wife made contact, and has since received regular reports of research results and experiences gained in the field. We sent an open request for help to an electronic forum for doctors.
The result was several useful responses.
We searched a magazine data base for medical articles containing the key word "kidney.
Paper copies of the most interesting finds arrived by mail after a few days.
My wife gave them to her hospital doctor as background reading. Kenya Saikawa is paralyzed.
He communicates with his PC and modem using light key strokes and Morse code.
Online communications allows Kenya to be in regular contact with people outside the walls of his Tokyo hospital. We met online in a "Handicap Club" on a computer center called TWICS in Tokyo.
He was there to exchange experiences with others with disabilities.
The club is a personal support group for those in need of help. CompuServe's Cancer Forum has a similar function.
The file library is full of information about cancer.
Members can just go in there and pick up whatever they want to read. Dave Hughes from Old Colorado Springs, Colorado in the United States has had a long career as a professional soldier.
He has fought in places like the Yalue river in Korea and Vietnam's jungle.
When he retired, he became a political online force. "I'm using the new tools of the individual mind to change the world," he says.
Native American Indians are among those, who have benefited from Dave's energy and knowledge.
He has helped them show their culture to the outside world in a graphical form. Vladimir Makarenkov from the Crimea in the Ukraine is manager in a company called VINKO.
In early 1993, he distributed an offer of partnership with foreign companies through the mailing list E- EUROPE.
VINKO is into aluminium processing.
He wrote: "From our own production we can offer some one metals and aniline dye for cotton, viscose, wool, silk, leather.
We are interested in deliveries of chemical production (gamma acid, H- acid) and not quickly deteriorating foods (food concentrates, canned food etc)." George Pavlov is Planning and Reporting manager at an American computer manufacturer.
Daily, he logs on to online services to monitor industry product announcements and daily news from several electronic sources.
It helps him stay ahead of rapid technological developments. Semafor A/S in Arendal, Norway, produces modems and other types of telecommunications equipment.
They operate an electronic bulletin board for customers, users and prospects.
Anybody can call in to get information about products and offerings.
If they need help, they can leave a message to Semafor A/S day and night.
A response will be waiting for them, when they call back. Eduardo Salom heads Software Plus SA in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Today, she is married to a Japanese and lives in Tokyo.
She teaches Portuguese and works as a translator.
The modem enables her to keep in touch with others around the world interested in Portuguese and Spanish language and culture. Mike Wright teaches at St. Andrew's College in Grahamstown, South Africa.
He integrates the online world in his teaching to motivate his students.
His classes are involved in international projects with schools all over the globe. In August 1991, the "Old Stalinists" made a coup d'etat in the Soviet Union.
The news media were silenced, but they forgot the country's many bulletin boards.
Early one morning, a foreign caller picked up the following messages from a Moscow BBS: From: Valery Koulkov To: All Msg #560, 00:42am 20-Aug-91 Subject: Moscow, August 19, 23:00 Some news from the square news RSFSR white building, 23:00.
Local inhabitants are very welcome for the people guarding 'white building', they carry food and some garments to the square. Approx. 8 tanks stand by the house under the RSFSR flags!
There is an information that 'white house' is surrounded by the soldiers from Vysshee Desantnoye uchilische from Ryazan.
The people are not so desperate than some hours ago.
Informer said (by phone) that he saw several victims (shot and killed under the tanks. there is fire near the RSFSR building.
Moscow, August 21, 1:15 am Telecommunications played a role in this historic event.
It is for you, me, everybody. There is much to learn in the "online land," and the medium is fascinating.
You can learn about how to use your computer, about your profession, other people's views about whatever, and more.
Often, you will find reports about experiences and know-how that it is hard or impractical to get in other ways. Some users go online to learn how to do things better.
Teachers want to give their students a better and more motivating learning environment.
Architects, engineers and companies want increased competitiveness and sales.
They seek timely information about competitors, technologies and tools, partners and trends. You can take a Masters Degree in Business Administration while sitting in front of your computer at home.
You can join online seminars arranged by local or foreign educational institutes.
Knowledge about your disease will make you better equipped to handle the situation.
The online resource is just keypresses away, and knowledge is power. To get this power, you'll need to know what you can get from the online world.
This book is filled with examples of what is available, and practical tips about how to use the offerings. A large personal network gives strength --------------------------------------- Most of us belong to one or several networks.
They consist of persons that you can call on whenever you need help.
Your network may be private, like in your family.
Besides, it's much easier to develop personal networks in the online world. We have used words like "clubs" and "associations.
By this we mean groups of people interested in helping You and in participating in what You happen to be interested in. Today's communications technology lets us participate in networks in other countries at a very low cost.
Many describe it as participation "beyond time and space." Write a message and send it to a person in your network.
It arrives in his/her "mailbox" within minutes (sometimes seconds) and stays there until the recipient wants to read it.
You can send letters when you're awake and receive replies when you're asleep. You can pick up and read your friend's messages the next day or whenever you feel like doing it.
That is how two people as far apart as Arendal, Norway and Beijing, China could be involved in the development of this book. Sometimes "real time" discussions are important.
CompuServe has a Diabetes Forum.
You can call there any time, day or night, seven days a week.
Whenever you feel like it.
You will always find someone to chat with who understands and shares your problems. Real-time chatting may become expensive, but you are free to decide your level of involvement.
If you think that $10 spent is enough, then just stop there. What is the point? ----------------- Thousands of commercial and noncommercial online services offer over 5,000 online databases.
These infobases are repositories of electronic information.
Most are small information centers, running on personal computers using a simple computer program and modems.
People call in to read messages and information, retrieve free software, or just to have a good time. Most BBSes are free.
Some charge a small annual fee.
The largest board has 213 telephone lines, seven gigabytes of storage for letters, conferences, computer programs, and more (1993). Mind you, 7 gigabytes is a lot.
It is equivalent to more than 7,000,000,000 characters, or a whopping 12,000 copies of this book! The entrepreneur sees the online world as a new, profitable playground.
It can reduce potential losses and help develop businesses in more profitable directions. Turn this to your advantage.
Build your own early warning system that monitors online information sources and networks. Have fun -------- The online world has an abundance of joke clubs, dramatic adventure games with multiple players, and large archives filled with computer game software.
Often, you heard it here first. Other people prefer to socialize.
You are in the driver's seat.
If something is hard to understand, just log off to study the difficult text.
Nobody is watching. Will you being member of the online world make you rich? Probably not.
Eight hundred years later, the first public library opened in Athens, Greece. It took another two thousand years for the computer to be invented.
MEDLARS was a bibliographic database containing references to medical literature.
Little happened in the rest of the world until the late 1980s.
American companies and users still dominate, but they are no longer alone. Today, we can access over 5,000 public databases.
They are available from more than 500,000 online systems ("host computers") all over the world. With so many online services, it is difficult to find our way through the maze of offerings.
This book therefore starts with a map of the online world. The structure and contents of the online world ---------------------------------------------- The online world can be described as a cake with multiple layers, where the information sources are the bottom layer.
You - the user - are the marzipan figure on the top.
The online world contains the following tiers: (1) Database producers and information providers (2) Online service companies (3) Gateways and networks (4) The services (5) The user interface (6) The data transport services (7) The User. 1.
Database producers and information providers. ------------------------------------------------ I have a bulletin board system in Norway (at +47 370 31378).
All available programs have been written by others. When you call Data-Star in Switzerland, or CompuServe in the U.S. to read news, you may find some stories authored by these companies.
Most of their news, however, are written by others. InfoPro Technologies delivers Russian scientific and technical articles from "Referativnyi Zurnal" through online services like Orbit, Pergamon and BRS.
InfoPro is not the originator.
The text has been prepared by VINITI (the Institute for scientific and technical information of the xUSSR). My BBS (the "Saltrod Horror Show"), Data-Star, NIFTY-Serve, Orbit, Pergamon, BRS, and CompuServe are online services.
We call those who have provided the news and information on these services for information providers or database producers. The American news agency Associated Press is an information provider.
They write the news, and sell them to online services like Dialog, CompuServe, Nexis and NewsNet.
These online services let you read the news by modem. The information providers sell the right to distribute their news.
Your news reading charges may be imbedded in the online service's standard access rates.
Some services will ask you to pay a surcharge when reading news. Most subscribers pay US$12.80 per hour (1993) to use CompuServe at 2400 bits per second (bps).
At this speed, you typically receive around 240 characters of news per second.
If you access at higher speeds, you will have to pay more. CompuServe pays Associated Press part of what they earn each time you read their news.
There is no surcharge for reading AP news on this service. Others charge more.
To read Mid-East Business Digest through NewsNet, you pay a surcharge of US$72.00 per hour at 2400 bps (1993).
Scanning newsletter headlines and conducting keyword searches are cheaper.
Here, reading will only set you back US$21.50/hour (provided the articles are among the first hits in your search). Many information providers also distribute information through grassroots bulletin boards.
The Newsbytes News Network and the USA Today newsletter services (also in full text on Dialog and Nexis) are two examples. The rates for reading the same article may therefore differ considerably depending on what online service you are using.
If you are a regular reader, shop around for the best price. Information providers may have subcontractors.
The Ziff-Davis service Computer Database Plus, a database with full-text articles from magazines like Datamation and Wall Street Computer Review, depends on them. Datamation pays journalists to write the articles.
Ziff-Davis pays Datamation for the right to distribute the articles to CompuServe's subscribers.
CompuServe pays Ziff-Davis part of what you pay when reading the text. 2.
Online services ------------------ The term "online services" refers to information services provided by computer systems, large or small, to owners of personal computers with modems. What is offered, differ by system.
They charge you for using their services. Some online services are priced like magazines and newspapers with a flat subscription rate for basic services.
You can use this part of a service as much as you like within a given period.
GEnie, CompuServe, BIX, America Online, and Delphi are among those offering such pricing options. Other online services charge for 'connect time'.
They have a rate per hour or minute. MCI Mail uses "no cure, no pay.
You only pay to send or read mail.
To check for unread letters in your mailbox is free. There are all kinds of creative pricing schemes.
Some services have different rates for access during the day, night and weekends. Others have different rates for users living far away.
Sometimes the remote subscriber pays more, in other cases less than ordinary subscribers. Still, most online services are free.
This is particularly true for the over hundred thousand bulletin board systems around the world.
The owners of these services often regard them as a hobby, a public service, a necessary marketing expense, or do it for other reasons. The cost of setting up and operating a bulletin board system is low.
Consequently, the BBS systems are as varied as the people who run them.
Each BBS has its own character. My BBS is also free.
I consider it an online appendix to this book and the articles I write. National Geographic BBS in Washington, D.C., U.S.A. (tel.: +1- 202-775-6738) is run by the magazine of the same name.
This board is also free.
They regard it as a part of their marketing strategy. It provides them with input to the editors, and it is an easy way of maintaining contacts with schools. Semaforum BBS in Norway is run by a company.
Its purpose is customer support and to give information to prospective customers. The cost is a marketing expense. Some large, international online services on the Internet, BITNET, and UUCP are almost free.
They address research and educational institutions and are financed by public funds.
These services are now being made available to other users at very moderate rates. Some users fear that using online services will increase their telephone costs dramatically, and especially when using services in other countries.
Read chapter 13 and 15 for tips about how to keep your communications costs down. 3.
Gateways and networks ------------------------ CompuServe users select the Computer Database Plus from a menu. This prompts CompuServe to dial another online service and lets you use this, as if you were still using CompuServe.
You hardly notice the difference.
You are using Computer Database Plus through a gateway. CompuServe users searching the IQuest databases get the following welcome message: One moment please... Connected to 19EASYN Welcome to IQuest (c) 1991 Telebase Systems, Inc. U.S.
Please wait Dialing Medline Connect Medline Scanning ....
Please wait All the time, your modem is connected to CompuServe.
You are mentally using IQuest and not other online services.
Technically, you are going through various gateways to reach the information libraries.
You pay CompuServe for the privilege.
Calling several systems often costs more, and it certainly takes time. Users of BBSes connected to RelayNet or FidoNet can join in global discussions.
Participants in other countries also call their favorite local systems.
To the individual user, it looks as if they all use the same bulletin board system. The networks that tie these boards together regularly send new discussion items to the other participating boards.
One typical motive is to reduce an online service's own communications costs. KIDLINK is a global project for children between 10 - 15 years of age.
It allows kids to discuss through a system of electronic mail. Part of the dialog takes place by the children sending email to a recipient called KIDCAFE.
A message to 'the cafe' goes through the international networks to a host computer in North Dakota (U.S.A.).
There, a computer program called LISTSERV distributes copies of the message to names on an electronic address list. (Conferences administered by a LISTSERV are called 'discussion lists'.) SciLink in Toronto is one recipient.
Messages forwarded from North Dakota are made available for users as entries in a 'local' conference called KIDCAFE.
A user in Tokyo can read a message, as if it had been entered locally.
If she wants to reply, her answer is sent back to the LISTSERV for redistribution to the world. Western Michigan University (U.S.A.) is also a recipient.
Here, another LISTSERV program is in charge of forwarding the mail to yet another list of (local) addresses.
We call it a 'mail exploder'. This mailing list has been set up by local administrators to reduce costs.
The individual user is not allowed to receive copies of messages all the way from North Dakota. One Michigan recipient may be a local area network.
You will find many smart technical solutions in the online world. Actually, this is how the online world got started.
Two systems were interconnected for exchange of electronic mail.
Then, another system was added, and another.
One day it was a global network of computer systems. Some network systems are connected by leased telephone lines. Other networks, like FidoNet, depend mainly on dial-up using regular voice-grade telephone service.
Each BBS dial regularly to other computers in the network to send or receive mail and files. They may do it once per day, twice per day or whatever. Then someone got the idea of interconnecting networks.
You, me and all the other modem users stand to benefit enormously. 4.
The services --------------- The most popular online services are electronic mail, chat, file transfers, conferences and discussion forums, news, reading of online journals and grassroots publications, database searching, entertainment.
The online world has an infinite number of niches, things that people are interested in and have fun doing. Electronic mail --------------- is not just like paper mail.
Email is faster, easier to edit and use in other applications. Your mail may be private, or public.
It can be 'broadcasted' to many by a mailing list.
If the recipient's mailbox is on another system, the message is routed through one or several networks to reach its destination. Several email services offer forwarding to fax, telex or ordinary postal service delivery.
Some offer forwarding to paging services.
When new mail arrives in your mailbox, messages with text like 'MAIL from opresno@extern.uio.no' will be displayed on your beeper's small screen. Soon, you can send electronic mail to anyone.
By the turn of the century, it probably will be difficult to tell the difference between fax messages and email.
The services will automatically convert incoming faxes to computer-readable text and pictures, so that you can use them in word processing and other computer applications. Automatic language translation is another trend.
You will soon be able to send a message in English, and have it automatically translated into Spanish for Spanish-reading recipients, or into other languages.
Conference systems with automatic translation are already being used in Japan (English to/from Japanese). One day we may also have a global email address directory. "What is the address of Nobuo Hasumi in Japan.
Press ENTER, and there it is. Today, the largest commercial players email vendors are MCI, Dialcom, Telemail, AT&T Mail and CompuServe.
The fight for dominance goes on. 'Chat' ------ Email has one important disadvantage.
It may take time for it to be picked up and read by the recipient.
The alternative is real-time conferencing, a form of direct keyboard-to-keyboard dialog between users.
We call it 'chat'. Most large systems let you chat with many users simultaneously. Even small bulletin boards usually have a chat feature. Chat is set up in several ways.
On some systems, you see each character on the screen once it is entered by your dialog partners. Other systems send entries line by line, that is, whenever you press ENTER or Return.
John Sculley of Apple Computers and various politicians have been featured in such 'meetings'. In May 1991, the KIDLINK project arranged a full-day chat between kids from all over the world.
Line, a 12-year old Norwegian girl, started the day talking with Japanese kids at the Nishimachi and Kanto International School in Tokyo.
This made the encounters chaotic at times.
The kids enjoyed it, though!
One-line messages shot back and forth over the continents conveying intense simultaneous conversations, occasionally disrupted by exclamations and requests for technical help. Speed is a problem when chatting.
It takes a lot of time since most users are slow typists. If individual Messages span more than one line, there is always a risk that it will be split up by lines coming from others.
It takes time to understand what goes on. Users of SciLink (Canada) use a method they call 'semi-sync chat'.
The trick is to use ordinary batch-mode conferences for chatting.
Instead of calling up, reading and sending mail and then log out, they stay online waiting for new messages to arrive. This approach allows you to enter multiple-line messages without risking that it to broken up by other messages.
The flow of the discussion is often better, and each person's entries easier to understand. File transfers -------------- The availability of free software on bulletin boards brought the online world out of the closet.
Today, you can also retrieve books and articles, technical reports, graphics pictures, files of digitized music, weather reports, and much more. Millions of files are transferred to and from the online services each day.
File transfers typically represent over 75 percent of the bulletin boards' utilization time.
The number is staggering. If you want to download free software: read in appendix 3 about how to do it. Downloading is simple.
It works like this: Say you're logging on to the ULRIK service at the University of Oslo in Norway.
You enter 'anonymous', and supply your email address as password.
This will give you access. You use the cd command (change directory) to navigate to the desired library catalog on the remote hard disk.
You locate the desired file, and use a GET command to transfer the file to your file area on Ulrik. When done, you logout from the remote computer to be returned to Ulrik's services.
Your final job is to transfer the file from Ulrik to your personal computer using traditional methods. Being able to send Internet mail does not guarantee access to the ftp command.
Read more about this in Chapter 12. Conferences and discussions --------------------------- Online conferences have many things in common with traditional face- to-face conferences and discussions, except that participants don't physically meet in the same room.
However, while private mail is usually read by one recipient only, 'conference mail' may be read by thousands of people from the whole world. All of them can talk and discuss SIMULTANEOUSLY.
It is almost impossible for one single individual to dominate.
The number of active participants can therefore be far larger than in 'face-to- face' conferences. The conferencing software automatically records all that is said.
Each participant can decide what to read and when.
He may even use the messages in other applications later on. Opinions and information can easily be selected and pasted into reports or new responses. Some conferences are public and open for anybody.
Others are for a closed group (of registered) participants. They are normally structured by topic and the structure is influenced by the participants' behavior.
If the topic is limited, like in "The football match between Mexico and Uruguay," it may start with an introduction followed by comments, questions, and answers like pearls on a thread.
After some time the conference is 'finished'. Conferences called 'IBM PC' or 'MS-DOS' often contain so many different sub-topics that they seem chaotic to the outsider.
But this is much less important than the kind of people you meet there and their willingness to contribute. Messages in the IBM Hardware Forum on CompuServe are divided into 11 sections.
Section 2 is called Printers' utilities.
If you have problems with an old Epson FX-80 printer, send requests for help to "All" (=to everybody) and store it in this section. CompuServe has over one million subscribers (1993).
They call in from all over the place to join the IBM Hardware forum.
Some are there to show off competence (read: to sell their expertise). Others visit to find solutions to a problem, or simply to learn. A conference with many users increases your chances of meeting others with relevant know-how.
As always, the quality of the people is the first requirement of a good conference. Professional 'Sysops' moderate the discussion in IBMHW.
They get up to 15 percent of what you pay CompuServe for using their forum.
To them, being a sysop is a profession.
Let's use this to explain differences between some conferencing systems. Each message in CompuServe's forums contains the sender's name (his local email address), subject, date, and the text itself.
We call this the 'bulletin board model'.
Each day, hundreds of messages OUTSIDE your area of interest are being posted.
You do NOT want to read these messages. CompuServe allows selective reading of messages.
You can select all messages containing a given word or text string in the subject title ('Sb:' above).
You can read threads of messages from a given message number (replies, and replies to replies).
You can read all messages to/from a given person, from a given message number, and from a given date.
There are many options. The PARTIcipate conferencing software functions diametrically different from CompuServe's forum software.
PARTI is used on TWICS (Japan), Unison (U.S.A.), NWI (U.S.A.), and The Point (can be accessed through a gateway from CompuServe). PARTI lets the user log on using an alias.
For example, he can use the identity 'BATMAN'.
You may never get to know the true name of the other person.
On the other hand, this allows people to talk about controversial topics, which they would otherwise not want to have their names associated with. Anyone can start a conference.
It can be public, private or a combination.
All new topics must be stored in a given structure.
The administrators (sysops) of the service manage the evolution of the 'conference room'.
Selective reading must be done in other ways (by searching conference contents). These two conferencing models seem to attract different types of discussions.
In PARTI, one-note conferences are allowed to stay.
In the bulletin board environment, they soon disappear. You can probably still join MEMORIES on the Point to add your own feelings or point-of-views. In larger PARTI conferences, the notes can be read like a book.
Often, side discussions appear like 'branches' on a 'tree'. Join and read them, if you want to.
Or just pass. The bulletin board systems (including CompuServe's forums) and PARTIcipate are at two extremes of the spectrum of conference systems.
Toward the BBS model, there are systems like FidoNet Echo, RBBS-PC, and PortaCom.
Toward the PARTI side, there are systems like Caucus. Many companies set up bulletin board systems to provide technical support to customers.
McAfee Associates, Inc. in California is one example.
They offer technical information, help, upgrade software, list of agents, technical bulletins with lists of products, and new products through agents' support BBSes all over the world.
For example, when in Port of Spain, Trinidad & Tobago call the Opus Networx BBS at (819) 628-4023. Setting up a professional BBS is not very expensive.
You can easily have 32 people online to the same conference simultaneously on a standard 80386-based PC, running Xenix and Caucus conferencing software.
This is what the Washington Information Service Corp. in U.S.A. did.
There's an abundance of software to choose from. Many companies rent private 'conference rooms' on commercial online services rather than doing it in-house.
Local systems usually depend on messages in the local language. Services catering to a larger geographical area often have a different policy.
English is the most common language for international discussions.
Example: TWICS in Japan is an English language system.
Its Spanish language conference ESPANOL has participants from Japan, Mexico and Norway. On MetaNet (Arlington, U.S.A.) the conferences are divided into conference areas.
One area was called The Salon.
The welcome message said: 'All conferences and responses posted here may freely be ported to other conferencing systems'.
MetaNet regularly 'ports' (exchanges) conference notes with systems in Europe, Asia and North America. Exchanging conferences have long traditions in the bulletin board world.
To some, it is routine to call Thunderball Cave BBS in Oslo to discuss photography with people in California.
Or to Dominique Christian in Paris? Sometimes, mail travels from mailbox service to mailbox service in seconds.
This is not so for mail from Oslo to Dominique in Paris.
His mail is routed through a system in London and is forwarded once per day through a dial-up connection.
It usually takes at least one day to reach the destination. News ---- Most large news agencies have online counterparts.
You can often read their news online before it appears in print.
This is the case with news from sources like NTB, Agence France-Presse, Associated Press, Kyodo News Report (Japan), Reuters, Xinhua English Language News Service (China) and TASS.
Some news is only made available in electronic form. News may be read in several ways, depending on what online service you use: * From a list of headlines.
Enter a story's number to receive its full text.
The news may be split up into groups, like Sports, International news, Business, and Entertainment. * Some services let you hook directly into a news agency's 'feed line' to get news as it is being made available.
At 11.02, 11.04, 11.15, etc. * News may be 'clipped' and stored in your mailbox twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week.
Clipping services search articles for occurrences of your personal keyword phrases while you're offline.
You can also search for first three lines of text from 8,000 stories/day from Washington Post, OTC NewsAlert, Associated Press, United Press International and Reuters Financial News Wire. Newspapers used to receive news through the wires before the online user.
This built-in delay has now been removed on many services.
Industry and professional news is usually available online long before it appears in print. Databases --------- Some years ago, most databases just contained references to articles, books and other written or electronic sources of information.
The typical search result looked like this: 0019201 02-88-68 TRIMETHOPRIM-SULFAMETHOXAZOLE in CYST Fluid from Autosomal Dominant POLYCYSTIC KIDNEYS. Elzinga L.W.; et al. W.M.
Bennett, Dept. of Med., Oregon Hlth. Sci.
Univ., 3101 Southwest Sam Jackson Park Rd., Portland, OR 97201. Kid.
Dec. 1987 Subfile: Internal Medicine; Family Practice; Nephrology; Infectious Disease; Clinical Pharmacology; Highlights of General Medicine You had to take the reference to a library to get a print copy of the article.
Some services let you to order a copy while online, to be sent you by mail from a copying service. Full-text searching is now the rule.
They offer reviews and news about movies, video, music, and sport.
There are forums for stamp and coin collectors, travel maniacs, passionate cooks, wine tasters, and other special interest groups.
Besides, many services are entertaining in themselves. Large, complex adventure games, where hundreds of users can play simultaneously, are popular choices.
People sit glued to the computer screen for hours. 'Chat', this keyboard-to-keyboard contact-phone type of simultaneous conversation between from two and up to hundreds of persons, is also popular.
It works like a combination of a social activity and a role-playing/strategy/fantasy/skill-improving game. Shopping is the online equivalent of traditional mail order business.
The difference is that you can buy while browsing.
Some commercial services distribute colorful catalogues to users to support sales.
Some distribute pictures of the merchandise by modem. You can buy anything from racer fitness equipment and diamonds to cars.
The user can select (navigate) by pressing a figure or a letter. 2.
Short menus or lists of commands for the intermediate user. The user knows some about how the service works, and just wants a short reminder to help navigate. 3.
Some services offer automatic access without any menus or visible prompts at all.
Everything happens in a two-way stream of unintelligent data.
The only menus that the user sees, are those belonging to the program running on his personal computer. Some services emphasize colors, graphics and sound.
They may require that users have certain hardware or special add-on cards in their communications computer.
But even where it is not important, there will always be many wanting it. To the professional on a fact-gathering mission, these features may give slower data transfer and problems when saving text to disk for later use.
Therefore, many prefer ASCII text with no extras. Sports cars are nice, but for delivering furniture they're seldom any good.
The same applies to the user interfaces.
No one is perfect for all applications. Level 6: The data transporters ------------------------------ When the online service's host computer is far away, the user often faces the challenges of: 1.
Noise on the line, which may result in unreadable text or errors in the received material. 2.
Expensive long distance calls There are many alternatives to direct long distance calling.
DASnet offers transport of mail between mail systems that have no direct connection with each others. (More about this in Chapter 13.) Level 7: The user ----------------- This is you and me.
It includes menus and help screens, and various options to tailor the service to your personal preferences. Navigating by menus is simpler ------------------------------ Most online services have menus to make them easier for novices to use.
A typical menu looks like this: R)ead messages Q)uick search available messages W)rite messages C)omments to Sysop D)ownload programs ?) for help G)oodbye.
This is enough! Enter a letter (or ?) to select a function.
Enter R to read messages.
The service is like a tree with menus by every set of branches. A code in the upper right-hand corner of each screen tells you exactly where you are.
Similar codes and commands are used on several other online services. On many systems, the first menu encountered when logging on is a list of announcements and new offerings.
The following is from GEnie, General Electric's Consumer Information Service (U.S.A.): GEnie Announcements (FREE) 1.
July 1991 GEnie Billing Completed.
To review yours, type:....*BILL 2.
Hot Summer Nights continues to SIZZLE.........................*HSN 3.
NEW...Quality Product and Amazing Value in....................SOFTCLUB 4.
LAST CHANCE---Blue GEnie Sweatshirts..........................*ORDER 5.
Color hypermedia in Apple II world.
Meet the Product Manager, FREE RTC............................SFRT 7.
Future of Online Gaming" RTC with GEnie Game Designers in....MPGRT 8.
A Revolutionary Credit Service - TRW CREDENTIALS..............TRWCREDIT 9.
900 Numbers: Ripoff or Good Business Sense - RTC 8/11 9PM.....RADIO 10.
Air Warrior Convention set for Sept.26-29. in Washington......AIR 11.
SEARS Fall/Winter Catalog On-line NOW.........................SEARS 12.
How to Sell your CRAFTS for Profit............................HOSB 13.
Stellar Warrior Campaign starts with a FREE weekend...........WARRIOR 14.
Followup Investment RTC with Mickey Friedman in...............REAL ESTATE 15.
Federation II, the adult space fantasy........................FED Enter #, <H>elp, or <CR> to continue? At the 'Enter #' prompt, enter '7' to go directly to the "Future of Online Gaming" conference (RTC=Round Table Conference).
Enter H for Help, or press Return to get to the systems' main menu. You can "go" to selected services by entering a videotext page number code or a number (selected from the menu).
Type 'mail' to get to your mailbox, 'backgammon' to play, or 'SEARS' to visit the online version of this North American shoppers' paradise. 'Mail' has page number 200.
Enter 'm 200' to go there directly. To go to NewsBytes' technical news reports by subject, select "5" from menu page number 316. GEnie even has a faster way.
Like some other services, it let you stack commands.
Instead of issuing one command, and then wait for the system to respond before issuing the next command, stacking allows you to put all commands on one line.
The command "m 316;5" will take you directly to choice 5 from the menu on page 316 without displaying intermediate menus. Many online services use the same template.
They have commands like GO SERVICE-NAME, JOIN SERVICE-NAME (or just J), DELTA SERVICE- NAME, or just the code or name of the offering as in 'mail' and 'sears' above. Entering H or ? (for help) usually give you assistance.
Few services are fussy about whether you use lower or capital letters in commands. On some services, and especially if a selection requires just a letter or a number, you don't even have to press return to make it happen.
This method is used on many bulletin boards. Some codes are standard.
This is particularly the case with "?", H, or Help for more information. Test drive ---------- Several commercial systems let you try the service for free or at lower rates.
They also have a free 'Guided Tour'. Free trials are particularly useful before a search in an expensive database.
Orbit has DBIN (The database Index), and Data-Star has CROS.
They are master indexes to the databases on the system.
First, select a general subject area, then enter your search terms.
The systems will respond with lists of databases and hit counts. Note: You must go to the 'real' databases for results.
You cannot retrieve actual information during a test drive. Selecting an expert level ------------------------- Most services regard all new users as novices.
The software designers assume that users don't want (or are unable) to read lengthy explanations.
Frequent users of a service, however, quickly learn how to do things.
Menus may soon begin to annoy rather than please.
Reading them costs money, and it slows our communications down. We do not need menus when accessing online services in fully automated mode.
Your communications program remembers exactly what to do, and does all the typing for you. There is no point in paying extra for having menus.
You'll not read them anyway.
The objective is to access the service at maximum speed and the lowest possible cost. Most online services can be tailored to your personal needs and preferences.
Many let you choose between: * Full menus * Short menus * A prompt line with a list of the most often used commands, * a prompt character or word (see "prompt" in appendix 4 for examples).
Prompts can be used by automatic communication script files to trigger the next action. If concerned about costs, note that you can use expert mode without being a true expert.
Just print the menus, and keep them by your keyboard while moving around. Some users draw 'road maps' of the services to navigate more quickly.
Other screens can only display a few lines of text at a time.
Is the service to return the characters that you enter on your keyboard? * Use of delay when sending linefeeds. (Useful if capturing text to a dumb printing terminal.
If text scrolls too fast for the printer, you risk losing some of it.) * Choice of prompt character, or prompt text string.
This is useful when communicating by script files.
On CompuServe, I have asked the system to add the BackSpace character (ASCII character number 8) to the end of all forum prompts.
If you call Tocolo BBS in Japan (Tel.: +81-3-205-9315.
The computer finds the characters to display from a table built into your system's hardware or software. Most personal computers can be preset to use various tables depending on your needs.
When communicating in English, you may want it to show Latin characters.
If the first two of these Nordic characters read like the symbols for Yen and Cent, you're not set up for Scandinavian characters.
If your system is set up correctly, they should look like an 'o' and an 'O' overwritten by a '/'. [** TRANSCRIBER'S NOTE: The 6 'special characters' above were re-coded incorrectly and have been reconstructed.
The source character codes for all six were: 0x1B, 0x1D, 0x11, 0x12, 0x06 and 0x0F.
Your communications program may need special features to do that.
If these features are missing, you are in for a surprise.
Some communication programs let you take snapshots of the screen, and store the result in a file.
This usually gives good results, but it may be a cumbersome approach. Prestel (British Telecom, England) belongs to a group of online services called videotex (or viewdata).
However, most call it 'ASCII videotex' as it is not depending on special display formats.
Most of them use ANSI graphics in welcome texts and menus.
Users of Procomm must set their program to ANSI BBS to take advantage. Capture these welcome texts and menus to a file on your hard disk, and view them with an editor.
They are filled with ANSI escape codes, and thus hard to read (and search).
The good news is that conference and forum mail only rarely contains such codes. Many users routinely keep captured online information on their hard disks for later reference.
You can use the setting almost everywhere.
Even the videotex service Prestel offers an option called 'TTY Teletype'. If 'TTY' or 'ASCII' is not on your online services' list of options, try 'Others' or 'Other computers'.
These settings usually identify your computer as unable to handle 'standard' colors, sound and graphics. Viewdata pages may provide "selling pictures," but the screens often have a low contents of information compared with TTY-based services.
Learning by doing is exciting. If resources are limited, start by reading user information manual.
Or, go online to capture key menus and help texts.
Print them out on paper for further study before going online again for a 'real' visit. I always hurry slowly during my first visits to a new online service.
I call up, capture information about how to use it, and disconnect.
It may take me days to study the material.
If lost, try "quit", "exit", "logoff", "off" and "G", in the hope of finding the correct command.
These are the most usual variations.
You should also try HELP or "?". If you really can't figure out how to get off a system, just hang up on it.
I write script files for automatic access and quick navigation to key offerings.
Another good strategy is to look for automated offline readers or systems (see Chapter 16 for details). Others prefer paper and pencil.
After a while you may remember the procedure, and can throw away your notes. Good luck! Chapter 4: Hobby, games and fun =============================== * Programs, game and fun Online adventure games.
The virus threat. * Hobbies.
Collecting stamps or coins. Roots, music, and online shopping. Online services have one thing in common with newspapers, magazines and books.
They tend to be more personal.
They often present their 'wares' in a local language, and offer very large collections of free software. The large online services have hundreds of thousands of users. The activity is often high.
They usually attract interesting (and competent) participants to their conferences and forums, have more programs available for download and more news sources and databases to search.
They generally give you a wider choice. We will focus on the large international services.
These are available from anywhere without too much effort, and using them comes surprisingly cheap.
Therefore, please remember that this book just covers the top of the iceberg.
Cheaper services may be found elsewhere, and they may even be better tuned to your particular areas of interest. Locating game software ---------------------- The fastest, easiest and cheapest is to call an online service to download game programs.
You'll find an overwhelming number of programs for all types of microcomputers. Many games are free.
We call them "Public Domain" or "Freeware" programs.
You do not have to pay to get them and try them out.
If you want to use them, however, the copyright owner expects you to pay a fee.
We call them "shareware" or "user supported" programs. When the game has been transferred to your personal computer, you can play without worries about communications costs, or the busy signal on your phone line. My favorite game is shareware.
It is an MS Windows solitaire game (patience) made by SP Services, P.O.
Box 456, Southampton, SO9 7XG, England.
The desired registration fee is UKP 15.00 (English pounds).
You can download the program from my board as WINCARD.EXE.
The file is 106 kilobytes large. WINCARD.EXE is a special distribution file, which contains three games and all supporting files.
The EXE extension may fool you into thinking that it is a program, and in a way it is.
The file is a self-extract file, meaning that you just enter "WINCARD" on an MS-DOS computer to extract the game files from the "package." Games are usually distributed in such distribution files.
All files used by a game (or several games) is put into one file by special software, and compressed in size.
This makes retrieval of programs easier and cheaper.
You do not have to download many related files individually.
The transfer takes less time. (Read about how to extract programs from distribution files in appendix 3). You will find some of the largest collections of games on the North American services CompuServe and EXEC-PC BBS.
You will also find many throughout the Internet. | TRICKLE is a large collection of public domain and shareware | | programs for MS-DOS, CPM, and other computers.
It is the Internet | | archive server listing service.
Most free bulletin boards have more software than you'll ever get around to try. Usually, there is a natural specialization between boards. Those using the Unix operating system, have the largest number of programs for such machines.
Those running on MS-DOS computers, have more programs for such computers. Some games are trite and bad.
To join, send your subscription request to: SNES-Request@spcvxa.spc.edu . For chess, try the Chess Discussion List (CHESS- L@GREARN.BITNET) unless Chinese Chess (on XIANGQI@INDYCMS.BITNET) is what you're looking for.
Consider subscribing to the MS-DOS Archive Additions (one-way) information service.
This is the basic | | rule: | | | | All BITNET mailing lists are 'managed' by a LISTSERV program, | | which handles all subscription requests.
When you read a | | reference like XIANGQI@INDYCMS.BITNET, then that means that | | a subscription request must be set to the LISTSERV at the | | INDYCMS computer on BITNET.
You may | | find it useful to read about email addresses in Chapter 7. | | | | All BITNET mailing lists can be used by email through the | | Internet.
Several BITNET hosts also have Internet addresses. | | Example: LISTSERV@NDSUVM1.BITNET can also be reached as | | LISTSERV@vm1.nodak.edu .
So, read this: A virus is a small, hidden computer program that can cause the loss or alteration of programs or data, and can compromise their confidentiality.
It can spread from program to program, and from system to system, without direct human intervention. The chance of your computer being infected is small, but you're never safe.
Therefore, download a program for virus detection and identification, like VIRUSSCAN from McAffee Associates, 4423 Cheeney Street, Santa Clara, CA 95054-0253, U.S.A.
They also have virus disinfection programs (for MS-DOS computers). For more about viruses, subscribe to VIRUS-L@LEHIGH.EDU. CompuServe has the Mac New Users Forum (with a a Virus Clinic section), the McAfee Virus Help Forum, the Symantec AntiVirus Forum, and more.
FidoNet has a VIRUS echo.
ILINK has VIRUS-I. Usenet has bit.listserv.valert-l (Virus Alert List), and comp.virus . Online games ------------ If you're into games, why not investigate online adventure games? There are many alternatives.
Prestel (England) offers TRASH, an environmental multi-user game with a futuristic theme and full of humor.
Some have graphics, music and sound effects.
Dungeons & Dragons is a popular choice. On EXEC-PC, play Startrek.
Select an identity and "play it out" according to its character.
If you're a real afficionado, check out rec.arts.startrek.info on Usenet or the list RASI-L@ncc1701e.uucp (write LISTSERV@ncc1701e.uucp to subscribe). Advanced players swap tricks on STARGAME@PCCVM.BITNET.
One game can last for weeks at a time.
On CIX (England), many prefer the multi-user dungeon game DiscWorld. If you prefer sport fantasies in the armchair, check out GEnie. They offer Rotisserie League Baseball.
Decide what team player to be, and join in a match of American baseball. Nintendo offers online games through the Famicom Networks in Japan and the U.S.
It takes some training to be able to read what each of them is saying. CompuServe's Citizen Band Simulator (GO CB) is an electronic version of the hams' short-wave radio.
It has 72 CB Simulator channels.
You can chat with anonymous members, have fun and find new keypals. On EXEC-PC's Chat and Entertainment System up to 64 users can talk simultaneously.
GEnie calls their service Livewire CB.
On BIX, look for CBIX. Some users are serious about chatting.
Several large companies are heavy users.
Although this kind of talking is a slow process, it has advantages.
It is easy to document the discussion.
Many clubs also have libraries filled with special software (like data base programs for collectors) and information files. Coins (on Coins@rocky.er.usgs.gov) is a forum for discussion of Numismatics, the study of coins, American and International.
Paper currency is also a welcome topic, but trading is not allowed.
To subscribe, send a message to robert@whiplash.er.usgs.gov . Music ----- ILINK, an international exchange of conferences between bulletin boards, has a forum for country music lovers.
It presents itself in these words: COUNTRY MUSIC Country & Western music including bluegrass and other related forms.
Discussion of artists, techniques, instruments & musicians.
Host: John Stewart One oasis of civility in the BBS maelstrom is the 150-board ILINK network -- recently renamed from InterLink.
Unlike most BBS networks, ILINK carefully evaluates each board before permitting membership.
We are very selective -- some say overly selective," says ILINK's international host Andy Keeves. Choosiness keeps ILINK small but upholds the decorum of its message bases. Usenet has rec.music.country.western .
FidoNet has 60S_70S_PROGROCK about the progressive rock music of the 60's and 70's, gospel music in CHR_GSPL_MUSIC, a club for selling and buying between musicians (MUSICIAN'S_SERVICES), and (MUSIC_COMP_101) for aspiring composers. CompuServe has a bunch of forums.
Check out the Music/MIDI sections in the Amiga and Atari ST Arts forums.
The latter is a full Music/MIDI forum.
Eclipse" (eclipse- request@beach.cis.ufl.edu) focuses on Pink Floyd and his music.
They call CompuServe for the Cooks Online forum (for gourmets) and the Bacchus Wine Forum (for their throats). BITNET has the mailing list "Eat" (EAT-L@VTVM2), a club for FoodLore/Recipe Exchange.
In J-FOOD-L (J-FOOD-L@JPNKNU10 on BITNET) they discuss Japanese food and culture. If your interest is more academic, subscribe to FOODWINE (on LISTSERV@CMUVM.CSV.CMICH.EDU).
On FidoNet, check out INTERCOOK for words of wisdom on International Cooking. On ILINK and RelayNet, look for CUISINE.
Brown ground beef and drain. 2.
Mix onions, green peppers, mushrooms, green CHILIES, taco sauce, jalapen"'s and cream chicken soup into skillet with ground beef. 3.
Simmer until vegetables are soft. 4.
In crock pot or dish, layer meat mixture, cheese, and tortillas; heat until cheese melts. Bon apetit! Outdoor life ------------ CompuServe's Great Outdoors SIG is for those preferring nature for the computer screen.
Add the Outdoor Cooking section of the Cooks Online Forum to make it perfect. Scandinavian bulletin boards exchange the "JAKT_FRILUFT" conference (Through MIX).
ILINK offers OUTDOORS, which focuses on outdoor hobbies. As usual, Usenet has a lot.
Golfers meet in GOLF-L (on LISTSERV@ubvm.bitnet). Photo enthusiasts will track down PHOTO-L@BUACCA.BITNET, CompuServe's Photography Forum and its SCUBA Forum's sections for underwater photography.
For more, there's "Photography" on EXEC-PC and The Well, PHOTO on RelayNet, PHOTOSIG on ILINK and rec.photo on Usenet. If you're into 3-d (stereo) photography, enroll in "3d" on UUCP: Contact: 3d-request@bfmny0.bfm.com (Tom Neff) Purpose: Discussion of 3-D (stereo) photography.
General info, hints, experiences, equipment, techniques, and stereo "happenings.
Anyone interested is welcome to join. There are clubs for all popular outdoor hobbies. Roots ----- On ROOTS-L@NDSUVM1.BITNET and soc.roots on Usenet, the emphasis is on genealogy.
Here, you'll get tips about tools and techniques.
You can exchange information about ancestors and find new friends and partners for joint research. On CompuServe, it is called The Genealogy Forum.
One message section is called Overseas Ancestry.
Men do not have admission. Usenet has soc.feminism.
Those with limited access to Usenet, may subscribe to "feminism-digest.
Send email to feminism- digest@ncar.ucar.edu to get on the mailing list. "Contact feminism-digest@ncar.ucar.edu" above means that you need to write a message to this Internet email address with a subscription request, or to receive further information about how to join.
This mailing list does not have automatic subscriptions. To join the mailing list "feminists," write Patricia Collins on collins@hplabs.hp.com .
She presents the conference's purpose in this way: The feminist mailing list is intended to provide a forum for discussion of issues of interest to women, in a friendly atmosphere.
NO exceptions. While we're at it, let's move on to other topics associated with the term sex: Bisexuals can participate in "sappho" on UUCP.
CompuServe has a Human Sexuality Adult Forum and a Human Sexuality Open Forum.
STOPRAPE@BROWNVM.BITNET is a Sexual Assault Activist List. Finally, there are a large number of pictures of nudes in all possible and impossible positions.
Most of them are childish, some are decidedly pornographic, a few are beautiful and erotic. The online services' policies vary about what kind of pictures and picture programs to make available.
You must contact the seller to buy.
Other services have large online supermarkets with many stores, and you can by while you visit. Subscribers to CompuServe get a monthly magazine by mail.
Go Mall Shoppers' Guide" is a regular insert with color photos and descriptions of selected products.
Type GO MALL, order a product, enter your credit card number, and have it sent you by mail. What if used goods are good enough?
ILINK, the international conference exchange system, has GARAGESALE.
Here you can buy and sell for hobby or home: Photo, video, audio, sound/music and midi equipment, and all kinds of other domestic items.
ILINK also has a conference called BUY-SELL. HAM-SALE on the FidoNet is for ham amateurs wanting to swap, by or sell.
Write: rsiatl!z-car-request). Vintage VW (at VintageVW@rocky.er.usgs.gov) is about Vintage Volkswagens.
This includes the Beetle, Bus (Types II and II/IV), Ghia, Squareback, Kubelwagen (Thing), bajas, buggies, Schwimmwagen, rails and any VW (air-cooled) powered vehicle including aircraft. Beginners, gurus, mechanics and non-mechanics, restorers and daily drivers are welcomed.
The data base is updated monthly. Planning your holidays ---------------------- CompuServe invites you to read reviews of theater performances, books, movies and restaurants, opera, symphonies, ballets, dance, museums and art galleries.
They have information about airline schedules and prices, hotels and the latest ski weather forecast. Televerket's Datatorg in Norway offers air tickets and hotel reservations through SMART LINK, a self-serve system operated by the Norwegian travel agencies.
Entertainment and travel are also popular on Prestel.
Most British tour operators have an "office" there. Several international services, including CompuServe and Dow Jones News/Retrieval, offer OAG (The Official Airline Guide) and Eaasy Sabre (the American Airlines reservation system). Worldscan/Travel shopper is on CompuServe and Delphi.
The Travel Forum on CompuServe administers a member travel discount program.
Download HOTEL.SAV in Library 0 for information about lower rates on hotel room and car-rental rates. It's often possible to book hotel rooms and rent cars online. Travelshopper has a built-in hotel guide, searchable by city around the world.
OAG has a database of over 40,000 hotels worldwide (1992).
It has the AA Rated European Hotels & Restaurants menu, which covers trips from Andorra to Yugoslavia.
Accu-Weather provides three-day weather forecasts for 450 cities worldwide, updated hourly. Travel agents are also operative through the Internet.
One alternative is at TRAVEL@delphi.com .
Telnet lib.dartmouth.edu for a World Factbook on countries. Is this your first visit to Japan?
Why not prepare your visit through the online service TWICS in Tokyo.
The port has holding areas and leads to other parts of Japan ("NIPPON") and the world ("SEKAI").
ILINK and The Well have conferences under the name TRAVEL. Many conferences in online land concentrate on particular parts of the world.
BALT-L@UBVM.BITNET is focusing on the Baltic states. In AFRICA-L@BRUFPB.BITNET they discuss Africa.
On Usenet, the news group is called soc.culture.african. To brush up your Portuguese, consider joining BRAS-NET, It is a Brazilian mailing list/network.
Send your subscription request to bras-net-request@cs.ucla.edu .
For general information about other Brazilian interest groups, write LISTSERV@FAPQ.FAPESP.BR . For those who are into Spanish, why not check out CHILE-L (at LISTSERV@USACHVM1.BITNET), or FOLLAC, a mailing list about 'Folklore Latino, Latinoamericano y Caribeno'.
To join, write Emily Socolov at owner-follac@ccwf.cc.texas.edu . Here are some other African sources: the French language Algeria News List (ALGNEWS) is on LISTSERV@gwuvm.gwu.edu.
TUNISNET (on LISTSERV@psuvm.psu.edu) is The Tunisia Network.
The FUTUREHOME TECHNOLOGY NEWS newsletter is available through NewsNet.
On ILINK, you will find the HOMEGARDEN conference.
Here they discuss anything related to owning and maintaining a house.
On the Well, check out "Homeowners." In Ziff-Davis' Magazine Database Plus you can search and read articles from the Good Housekeeping Magazine.
This full-text article database is available from CompuServe and other services. Through UUCP you can get to the conference "Antiques" (Contact: antiques-request@swbatl.sbc.com). CompuServe also has the Gardening Forum.
It is operated by the National Gardening Association, which publishes National Gardening magazine. The various services' software libraries contain many great shareware and public domain programs.
You can download software that will help you prepare tax return forms, plan next year's taxes, calculate interests and down-payments on your loans.
Usenet has misc.invest . If you want to adopt a child, check out ADOPTION on FidoNet, or subscribe to a UUCP conference of the same name.
For access, write adoption-request@think.com .
The National Issues Forum on CompuServe has a message section called "Adoption Today." Addicted TV-viewers may be interested in alt.tv.twin-peaks or alt.tv.muppets on Usenet.
Mystery" on FidoNet and UUCP is for those preferring mystery novels by the fire place in the living room. There are even offerings for "the perfect house wife.
I can think of no better pastime than origami, the traditional Japanese art of folding paper. (Contact: origami-request@cs.utexas.edu on UUCP). Oh, I almost forgot: The BONSAI conference is essential (on LISTSERV@CMS.CC.WAYNE.EDU).
This is where to discuss the art and craft of Bonsai and related art forms.
Write janet.murray@f23.n105.z1.fidonet.org for information. FidoNet also has A_THEIST A_Theism Education and Enlightenment HIGH_ED Education, Post Secondary HISTORY International History MAC_GAMES Macintosh Entertainment & Education CompuServe has 12 forums focusing on education.
Among these you'll find the Disabilities Forum, Computer Training Forum, Education Forum, Education Research forum, Science/Math Educational Forum, Foreign Language Forum, LOGO and Students Forum. Ken and Carrie Loss-Cutler are coordinating the section for Home/Alternative Education in CompuServe's Education Forum.
All | | conferences referred to in this book are open for anybody to | | join, unless explicitly told to be private. | RelayNet has EDUCATION.
NewsNet offers the newsletters EDUCATION DAILY, and the HELLER REPORT ON EDUCATIONAL TECHNOLOGY. Many online services (including schools and universities) offer students accredited courses by modem.
File names include: IRD-telnet-sites.txt (226KB ASCII text) IRD-ftp-archives.txt ( 73KB) IRD-listservs.txt (201KB) IRD-infusion-ideas.txt (202KB) Example: KIDLINK ---------------- Many parents and teachers regard the online world as a learning opportunity for their kids.
Some of them turn to KIDLINK, a global service for children between 10 - 15 years of age.
The service is operated by a grassroots network of volunteers. The objective is to get as many children as possible involved in a global dialog. Participation is free.
Before joining the discussion, however, each child must respond to the following four questions: 1.
What do I want to be when I grow up? 3.
How do I want the world to be better when I grow up? 4.
What can I do Now to make this come true? The kids can write in any language.
Most answers are sent through the Internet to a large online database in North America.
Anyone with an email connection to the Internet can search this database at will. When they have submitted their responses, they are invited to 'meet' the others in several KIDCAFEs.
The cafes are split up by language.
It can be a system set up to transport data from one computer to another.
It can be an online service with many conferences, and a friendly connection between people (like in "old boys' network").
When they ask us for assistance, we lend a hand. The online world has some interesting characteristics.
One is that most participants in online conferences already have received so much help from others that they feel obliged to pay back.
They do this by helping others. Those who help, know that helping others will be rewarded.
The reward, however, may not come directly from the persons that they help.
They contributions help maintain and develop the online world as one giant personal network. A typical example: I wanted to buy a 425 megabyte hard disk for my Toshiba 5100 personal computer.
I discover the existence of such a drive, when a user told about his experiences in CompuServe's Toshiba Forum.
Before placing an order, I wrote to check if he was still satisfied with the disk. The happy user did more than reply.
He told about other sellers and offered to help out with return shipment of my computer when done.
He made it clear that he had no financial interest in the companies selling the upgrade.
We had no previous contact with each other. The online world is full of similar examples.
One day you may need it.
It will give you an incredible advantage.
I have seen people get jobs, partners and clients through such contacts.
The online world is full of opportunities. Watch your words ---------------- Written communications are deprived of the body language and tone of voice that convey so much in face-to-face meetings and even in telephone conversations.
Therefore, it makes sense to work much harder to build in humor, sarcasm, or disagreement and avoid your words come across as stupidity, rudeness, or aggressiveness. One way of defusing misunderstanding is to include cues as to your emotional state.
One popular technique is to use keyboard symbols like :-).
We call these symbols emoticons. What :-) means?
Tilt your head to the left and look again.
Some people prefer to write their emotional state in full text, like in these two examples: *grin* and *smile*. Do not misunderstand.
You still should not allow yourself to write the most appallingly insulting things to other people, and then try to shrug it off with a <smile>. Watch your words.
They are so easy to store on a hard disk. Religion and philosophy ----------------------- CompuServe's Religion Forum (GO RELIGION) has many message sections with associated file libraries.
You can get into serious discussion about topics ranging from Christianity, Judaism, Eastern Religions, Islam, Interfaith Dialog, Limbo, Pagan/Occult, to Religion and Science, Liturgical Churches, Mormonism, Ethics and Values, and more.
BUDDHIST (on LISTSERV@JPNTUVM0.BITNET) is for non- academic discussions. BAPTIST (LISTSERV@UKCC.UKY.EDU) is the Open Baptist Discussion List.
THEOLOGY (contact U16481%UICVM.BITNET@VM1.NODAK.EDU) is a mailing list dedicated to the intellectual discussion of religion. In its self-presentation, it says: Intellectual is stressed as opposed to the "personal," the inspirational, or evangelistic.
This does not mean one cannot evangelize, but rather that participants should persuade rather than brow-beat or attack those they disagree with.
Arguments are inevitable, but they ultimately should resolve into mutual understanding or at least a truce. Pagan (Contact: pagan-request@drycas.club.cc.cmu.edu) is set up to discuss the religions and philosophies of paganism.
BELIEF-L (on LISTSERV@BROWNVM.BITNET) is designed to be a forum where personal ideologies can be discussed, examined, and analyzed. The discussion list PHILCOMM@RPIECS.BITNET is where you debate the philosophy of communication.
PHILOSOP@YORKVM1.BITNET is the Philosophy Discussion Forum. Several sacred texts and primary texts of religious interest are available by anonymous FTP or LISTSERV.
On FidoNet, check out JVArcServ. Job-hunting by modem -------------------- Unemployment is a global problem, and losing a job is often a bad experience.
FidoNet has the JOBS conference, for those not in a hurry, and JOBS-NOW (Job & Employment offerings/listings) for those who have no more time to wait. On Bergen By Byte, it is called 'Job_market', and on ILINK CAREER.
I'll work at home!") CompuServe has the Working-From-Home Forum under the sysopship of online gurus Paul and Sarah Edwards.
This will give you monthly updated lists of open computer jobs. When you get tired of hunting for a job, why not relax with HUMOR at LISTSERV@UGA.CC.UGA.EDU.
This mailing list distributes humor of all types, topics and tastes.
To subscribe, send the following command to the LISTSERV: SUB HUMOR [firstname] [lastname] Chapter 6: Your personal HealthNet ================================== Health is a concern in most families.
Where a family member or a friend is suffering from cancer, AIDS, a serious disability, or a rare disease, finding help is imperative. Fortunately, there are many sources of information for those who want to know more.
There are clubs and forums, where you can meet others with the same disease or problem.
They are open 24 hours a day.
Those who cannot sleep at night, can log in any time to "talk" with others. The social aspect of joining a club is important.
It also has a surcharged ZiffNet database with full-text articles about health topics (Health Database Plus).
Send a request to info-aids@rainbow.UUCP.
It is a clearinghouse of information, and discussion about alternative treatment methods, political implications, and more. Example: Kidney disease ----------------------- In chapter 1, I told you that my wife has a rare disease called Polycystic Kidneys.
Besides visiting these, we searched several medical databases. Menu selection five gave us The National Library of Medicine's database (MEDLINE), which is full of references to biomedical literature.
This database had more than five million references to articles from 4.000 magazines from 1966 and up to date, when we searched it in 1991.
It increases by some 25.000 new references per month.
Easy to search. The AAMSI Medical Forum (MedSIG) is sponsored by The American Association for Medical Systems and Informatics (AAMSI).
It is a forum for professionals within health care, people within associated technical fields, and ordinary CompuServe users.
Simple menus helped define relevant search terms.
When done, IQuest searched selected databases for us, and presented the finds on our local computer screen. The basic rate for completing the search was US$9.00.
In addition, we paid the normal fees for using CompuServe.
From Norway, this amounted to around US$ 40/hour at 2400 bps when logging on through the local Infonet node at that time.
Today, it costs less. This gave us up to 10 article headlines, when searching in bibliographic databases.
Abstracts of selected articles were displayed on our screen for an additional US$2.00. We used the search mode "SmartScan" in the area "Medical research.
IQuest searched several databases with a minimum of manual intervention. First, it told us that the following databases would be included in the search: BRS databases: Ageline - Contains references to and abstracts of materials on aging and the elderly.
Provides abstracts. Embase - Includes extensive abstracts of articles related to biomedicine from medical journals worldwide.
About 40% of the references are online only. Rehabdata - Covers articles, books, reports, and audiovisual materials dealing with the rehabilitation of the physically and mentally handicapped.
References only. Sport Database - Indexes publications dealing with sports, including training, medicine, education, and history.
Drawn mostly from English and French with technical articles from other languages. Dialog databases: BioBusiness - Deals with the business aspects of biotechnology and biomedical research.
Draws from BIOSIS and MANAGEMENT CONTENTS. BIOSIS Previews - Provides international coverage of all aspects of biological science. Cancerlit - Monitors articles from journals and other technical publications dealing with all aspects of cancer research throughout the world.
Includes abstracts. Clinical Abstracts - Covers human clinical study articles of major importance selected from leading medical journals.
Includes all aspects of clinical medicine.
Corresponds to Abstracts in Internal Medicine.
Abstracts available. Life Sciences Collection - Abstracts technical literature in the life sciences from journals and other scientific publications worldwide. Medline (1966 - to date) - Indexes articles from medical journals published worldwide.
Corresponds to Index Medicus, International Nursing Index and Index to Dental Literature.
Includes abstracts in roughly 40% of the records. SciSearch - Monitors worldwide literature across a wide range of scientific and technological disciplines.
Produced by the Institute for Scientific Information (ISI). Then we entered our search term: "LIVER AND CYST/".
The two articles arrived Norway by mail a few weeks later. The whole trip, including visits in medical forums, took 35 minutes.
The cost, including local telephone and network charges, was US$95.
Of this total cost, the extra cost of searching through IQuest amounted to US$54.00.
We all felt that the costs were well justified. | A note about the costs: The online tour was done manually, | | using full menus.
We discussed our search strategy while | | connected, which is more expensive than logging off to plan | | the next moves.
Also, note that the extra cost of searching | | IQuest ($54) was not time dependent. | Right now?
I have promised to donate one kidney to my wife when the time comes.
This has prompted me (1993) to join a mailing list for "Organ transplant recipients and anyone else interested in the issues" (TRNSPLNT@WUVMD.BITNET). Cancer ------ FidoNet has the forum CARCINOMA (Cancer Survivors).
BITNET has the discussion lists CANCER-L@WVNVM and CLAN (Cancer Liaison and Action Network on CLAN@FRMOP11).
CompuServe has a Cancer Forum.
NewsNet offers the newsletter CANCER RESEARCHER WEEKLY. In September 1992, the following message was posted on CANCER- L by a member from Brazil: "A close friend was just diagnosed with acute leukemia of a type called calapositive pre-B linphoplastic.
It is supposedly an early diagnosis since he is not anemic.
We are very shocked but he is reacting quite bravely and all he wants is to have access to literature on his condition.
Are there any new genetic engineering developments effectively clinically available?
What is the present state of knowledge regarding this specific form of leukemia? He was diagnosed three hours ago, is 48 yrs old, and will start chemotherapy tomorrow.
He was informed that chemotherapy is quite effective in this type of leukemia.
But we wonder if there isn't a possibility to use gene therapy. Any help will be greatly appreciated. - Dora." There were several helpful replies.
To request the Contents List and Instructions, send a mail message to cancernet@icicb.nci.nih.gov (Internet address) cancernet%icicb.nci.nih.gov@nihcu ( BITNET) Leave the subject line blank, and in the body of the mail message, enter "HELP".
National Cancer Institute's international information center.
It is a quick and easy way to obtain, through electronic mail, recommended treatment guidelines from the National Cancer Institute's Physician Data Query system. To access CancerNet, send email to: cancernet@icicb.nci.nih.gov Leave the subject line blank.
In the body of the mail message, enter HELP to receive instructions and the current contents list. The National Cancer Center in Tokyo Japan has a gopher service at gopher.ncc.go.jp.
The World Health Organization (WHO) has one at gopher.who.ch. Disabilities ------------ Bulletin boards and online conferences give equal access to all persons.
Therefore, the online world has changed the lives of many people with disabilities. Computer communications have opened a new world for those who are forced to stay at home, or thinks that it is too difficult to travel.
Those who can easily drive their car to the library, often have difficulties in understanding the significance of this. Usenet has alt.education.disabled and misc.handicap.
It covers all areas of disabilities, technical, medical, educational, legal, etc. UUCP has handicap.
It is presented in the following words: Contact: wtm@bunker.shel.isc-br.com Purpose: The Handicap Digest provides an information/discussion exchange for issues dealing with the physically/mentally handicapped.
Topics include, but are not limited to: medical, education, legal, technological aids and the handicapped in society. CompuServe's Disabilities Forum has the following sections: General Interest, Develop.
Disabilities, Emotional Disturbances, Hearing Impairments, Learning Disabilities, Vision Impairments, Mobility Impaired, Rights/Legislation, Education/Employment and Family Life/Leisure. AUTISM@SJUVM.BITNET is devoted to the developmentally disabled, their teachers, and those interested in this area.
The list BLIND- L@UAFSYSB.BITNET focuses on "Computer Use by and for the Blind." COMMDIS@RPIECS.BITNET is a mailing list discussing "Speech disorders." DEAF-L@SIUCVMB.BITNET is the "Deaf Discussion List," and DEAFBLND@UKCC.UKY.EDU the "Deaf-Blind Discussion List.
STUT-HLP (LISTSERV@BGU.EDU) is a support forum for people who stutter and their families. On L-HCAP@NDSUVM1.BITNET, the focus is on Technology for the handicapped.
All people are treated the same way.
Cats and strawberries are two of the most allergenic substances. Behavorial changes have proven to be EVERYTHING to me.
The techniques I've employed have helped many others.
First, try sleeping at a 45 degree angle.
This usually requires piling up pillows.
The elevation of the head facilitates drainage from the sinuses.
When the situation gets really bad, I've slept sitting up on a couch or arm chair propped up by numerous pillows and cushions.
This technique can take some getting used to, but, it works like a charm and is kinder to your system than drug therapy. Second, try "ephedra" tea.
This is an herb found in Chinese herb shops.
Ask the herbalist how to prepare it. I highly recommend the book "Natural Health, Natural Medicine" by Andrew Weil, M.D. of U of A Med School in Tucson.
See pages 253-256 for more information on asthma. Fourth, stay hydrated.
They are both living discussion forums and interesting searchable databases! Mednews is a weekly electronic newsletter.
Its columns bring regular medical news summaries from USA Today, Center for Disease Control MMWR, weekly AIDS Statistics from CDC, and more.
Send the following command to LISTSERV@ASUACAD.BITNET to subscribe: SUB MEDNEWS Your-first-name Your-last-name Chapter 7: Electronic mail, telex, and fax ========================================== Electronic mail is one of the most popular online services.
People living thousands of miles apart can exchange messages and documents very quickly. International Resource Development, Inc., an American research organization, claimed (1992) that we can send electronic mail to more than 10 million personal mailboxes.
We believe the figure to be much higher.
See chapter 15 for a breakdown of this cost. If you live in Norway, and send the letter by ordinary mail to a recipient in Norway, postage alone is US$0.53 (1992).
The cost is seven times higher than using email. To send the same letter from Norway to the United States by ordinary mail will cost 11 times more.
This letter takes several days to reach the destination, while email messages arrive almost instantly. Often, you can send email messages to several recipients in one operation - without paying extra for the pleasure.
Compare this to sending to several parties by fax! You do not have to buy envelopes and stamps, fold the sheet, put it into the envelope, and bring it to a mailbox.
Just let the computer call your favorite email service to send the letter. The recipient does not have to sit by the computer waiting for your mail.
Upon receipt, it will be automatically stored in his mailbox.
He can read it when he has time. The recipient can print it locally, and it will be a perfect document, no different to one typed in locally.
He can also make corrections or comments, and email onwards to a third party.
No need to feed five different pieces of paper into a fax machine or envelopes for five different people. Where you can find a telephone, you can also read mail.
In most countries, communicating through email is easy and economical. By the way, the simple but miraculous thing about email is that you can quote easily and exactly the point to which you are replying.
Type your message manually, or send a file (text or binary).
Type /EXIT when done. "To whom?" asks CompuServe.
You enter: "Odd de Presno 75755,1327," or just my mailbox number (75755,1327). CompuServe asks you to enter Subject.
You type: "Hello, my friend!
Your message has been sent. A few seconds later, the message will arrive in my mailbox.
If I am online to CompuServe at the moment, I will probably read it right away.
If not, it will stay there until I get around to fetch it. Above, we used the term "normally takes to send.
Please note that many users never ever TYPE these commands!
They use various types of automatic software to handle the mechanics of sending and receiving mail (see Chapter 16). Other systems require different commands to send email.
Ulrik at the University of Oslo (Norway) is a Unix system.
So is The Well in San Francisco.
On such systems, mail is normally sent using these commands: Type "mail opresno@extern.uio.no".
When the computer asks for "Subject:," enter "Hello, my friend!" Type your message or send it.
When done, enter a period (.) in the beginning of a line.
Ulrik will reply with "Cc:" to allow you to 'carbon copy' the message to other people.
If you don't want that, press ENTER and the message is on its way. While I wrote this book, I had to go to Japan.
All systems will ask you for an address and the text of your message.
On some, the address is a code, on others a name (like ODD DE PRESNO). Most systems will ask for a Subject title.
Many will allow you to send copies of the message to other recipients (Cc:). Some services allow you to send binary files as email.
Binary files contain codes based on the binary numeration system.
We have tested this successfully on CompuServe, MCI Mail and other services. On CompuServe, replace "Odd de Presno 75755,1327" with ">FAX: 4737027111".
My fax number is +47 370 27111. On MCI Mail type "CREATE:".
MCI asks for "To:," and you type "Odd de Presno (Fax)".
You enter "Norway". By "RECIPIENT FAX NO" enter "37027111" (the code for international calls).
The country code for Norway, 01147, is added automatically. By "Options?," press ENTER.
When MCI Mail asks for more recipients, press ENTER.
Type your message and have it sent. To send a telex, you'll need the recipient's telex number, an answerback code, and the code of the recipient's country.
It will take you through the process of filling out the various address lines.
The letter may well arrive faster than through ordinary mail. When the recipient is using another mailbox system -------------------------------------------------- When the recipient is using your mailbox service, writing addresses is simple.
Not so when your email has to be forwarded to mailboxes on other online services. The inter-system email address consists of a user name, a mailbox system code, and sometimes also routing information.
The problem is that there is no universal addressing format.
Finding out how to write a given address may be surprisingly difficult. Some services are not set up for exchange of email with other services.
This is the case with my bulletin board, the Saltrod Horror Show.
To send mail to a user of this system, you'll have to call it directly and enter it there.
Many users have mailboxes that they use rarely or never.
First, the local name of the mailbox (my name abbreviated).
In these cases, the address may have to be changed to reflect this: Users of AppleLink use opresno@extern.uio.no@INTERNET# .
Those on JANET use opresno%extern.uio.no@eanrelay.ac.uk.
On SprintMail, use ("RFC-822": <opresno(a)extern.uio.no>, SITE:INTERNET) . CompuServe subscribers use >INTERNET:opresno@extern.uio.no . The core of these address formats is "opresno@extern.uio.no", in one way or the other. We call this basic addressing format a Domain Naming System. "EXTERN.UIO.NO" is a domain.
The domain may also contain reference to the name of a company or an organization, like in twics.co.jp, compuserve.com, or IGC.ORG.
The CO, COM, and ORG codes identify TWICS, CompuServe and IGC as companies/organizations. To send mail from the Internet to my CompuServe mailbox, use: 75755.1327@compuserve.com Normally (except on AppleLink), a domain address can only contain one @-character.
When an address has to be extended with gateway routing information, replace all @-characters to the LEFT in the address by %-characters.
Here is an example: BITNET uses a different addressing method (USER@SYSTEM).
Let's assume that you are subscribed to the club for lovers of Japanese food (J-FOOD-L@JPNKNU10.BITNET, see chapter 6).
The preferred method is to route through a gateway near to you.
If living in North America, you may route CUNYVM.CUNY.EDU using the following address: J-FOOD-L%JPNKNU10.BITNET@CUNYVM.CUNY.EDU The rightmost @ in this address is maintained.
The one to the LEFT has been replaced with a %.
The term ".BITNET" tells the gateway machine where to forward the message. The following will happen: First, the message will be sent to system CUNYVM at the EDUcation site CUNY.
CUNYVM investigates the address, and discovers that the message is for BITNET.
The UUCP network uses this variation of the domain addressing scheme. Example: User Jill Small on Econet in San Francisco used to have the address pyramid!cdp!jsmall .
Read this address from right to left.
The name of her mailbox is to the right.
The name of the organization is in the middle.
Pyramid" is the name of the network. Some email systems can use bang addresses directly. (Note that the ! character has a special function on Unix computers.
Here, you may have to type the address as pyramid\!cdp\!jsmall to avoid unwanted error messages.
The \ character tells Unix to regard the next character as a character, and not as a system command.
This character may also have to precede other special characters.) Other systems do not accept bang addresses directly.
Here, the users must send such messages through a gateway.
The American host UUNET is a frequently used gateway.
Replace the exclamation points with %-s, like this: jsmall%cdp%pyramid@uunet.uu.net This method works most of the time.
When it works, use this addressing form.
Bang paths may fail if an intermediate site in the path happens to be down. (There is a trend for UUCP sites to register Internet domain names.
This helps alleviate the problem of path failures.) Some messages must be routed through many gateways to reach their destination.
To learn more, read some of the books listed in appendix 5. We have found "The Matrix" by John S.
Quarterman to be particularly useful. The conference INFONETS (General network forum) is another source.
Here, the INTERNET postmasters discuss their addressing problems.
Activity is high, and you will learn a lot about the noble art of addressing. (This is not the place to ask for Olav Janssen's Norwegian email address, though.
This question should be sent to a Norwegian postmaster.) You can subscribe to Infonets by sending the following mail: To: LISTSERV@NDSUVM1.BITNET Subject: (You can write anything here.
CompuServe offers a cc:Mail gateway.
X.400 is used to connect EDI systems between companies and suppliers. The X.400 addressing syntax is very different from domain addressing.
To send a message from an X.400 mailbox to my address (opresno@extern.uio.no), you may have to write it like this: (C:NO,ADMD:uninett,PRMD:uninett,O:uio,OU:extern,S:opresno) Alas, it's not so standard as the domain addressing schemes.
Another example: Some use the code C:USA rather than the ISO country code C:US.
Try (a) instead. (p) the character % cannot be used when routing messages from X.400 to Internet.
Try (p) instead. (b) the character ! (used in "bang" addresses). (q) the character " used in email addresses. RFC-822 this code tells X.400 that an Internet domain address follows.
A common error is addressing mail to an account name that doesn't exist. Let's make an error when sending to LISTSERV@vm1.nodak.edu. Enter "pistserv@vm1.nodak.edu" instead of "LISTSERV@vm1.nodak.edu". This address is wrong.
Below, we've printed the complete bounced message.
It contains a lot of technical information.
Most lines have no interest.
On some systems, you can reply by using a reply command.
If you wish to respond to the author only, | | make sure that the only address you're replying to is that | | person's.
Don't send it to the entire list! | Directories of services and subscribers --------------------------------------- There is no complete global directory of available electronic addresses.
Perhaps you made a mistake, when you wrote it down (KIDCAFE became KIDSCAFE). The return address in the received messages' mailer headers may be wrong.
It may use a syntax that is illegal on you email system, or it may suggest a routing that is unknown to your system.
When trying to send mail to this address, the Mailer-Daemon complains: "This is a non-existent address." Again, the first person to contact for help is your local postmaster.
On most Internet hosts this is simple.
If you have a mailbox on the ULRIK computer at the University of Oslo, send a request for help to postmaster@ulrik.uio.no .
If you are on COLNET in Buenos Aires, send to postmaster@colnetr.edu.ar . POSTMASTER is also the address to turn to on BITNET.
In the subject of the message, write the command WHOIS host-machine-name.
Do not write anything in the text (will be ignored).
You will get a report of the desired mailbox computer, and the address of the local postmaster.
Example: To: SERVICE@NIC.DDN.MIL Subject: WHOIS AERO.ORG Text: Sometimes, you just don't know the name of a recipient's mailbox computer.
When this is the case, start at the "top of the pyramid." Say your desired recipient lives in Germany.
The ISO country code for Germany is DE (see appendix 6).
Send the message To: SERVICE@NIC.DDN.MIL Subject: WHOIS DOMAIN DE Text: This will give you the email addresses of the main postmasters for this country.
Most postmasters are willing to help, but please note that most of them are very busy people.
It may take days before they get around to respond to your inquiry. There are over 100 other "whois-servers" in more than 15 countries.
The systems whois.nic.ad.jp and whois.ripe.net cover Japan and Europe.
The rest of them provide information about local users. (A list is available via anonymous FTP from sipb.mit.edu in the file /pub/whois/whois-servers.list .
Chapter 12 has information about how to get this list by email). If your recipient is on UUCP, try netdir@mcsun.eu.net .
To locate the postmaster of the mailbox system "amanpt1", use the following format (write nothing in the text): To: netdir@mcsun.eu.net Subject: amanpt1 Text: BITNET provides information about connected systems through many sources.
Scandinavian users use LISTSERV@FINHUTC.BITNET in Finland. Try a LISTSERV on a host closer to where you live.
For example, North American users may use LISTSERV@NDSUVM1.BITNET, which is a host in North Dakota.
Japanese users should write to the host LISTSERV@JPNKNU10.BITNET. When retrieving for BITNET host information mail, your search will have to be done in two steps.
Here, your commands are NOT to be entered on the Subject line.
Enter all commands in the TEXT field (text on the Subject line will be ignored).
Example: You want information about the BITNET computer FINHUTC (called a "node in the network").
The plan is to connect several directories. The developers hope that routing of X.400 messages may eventually be done automatically without the user needing to know the identity of the recipient's mailbox computer. X.500 will certainly help X.400 users.
To send mail from Dialcom to the Internet you must use commercial gateway-services like DASnet (see appendix 1). To send mail from one Dialcom system to another, use the syntax 6007:EWP002.
For example, a FidoNet user may use the following method to send to my Internet address: Send the message to user UUCP at 1:105/42.
1:" tells that the recipient lives in Zone number 1 (North America).
105/42" refers to Node number 42, which receives mail through Net number 105.
This node has an automatic gateway to the Internet. Another example: Jan Stozek is sysop of "Home of PCQ" in Warsaw, Poland.
The Node number of his BBS is 10.
He receives mail through Net number 480.
Poland is a country in Europe, Zone number 2.
The address to his system is: 2:480/10.
It describes how to send mail between electronic mail systems like AppleLink, BITNET, BIX, CompuServe, Connect-USA, EasyNet, Envoy, FidoNet, GeoNet, Internet, MCI, MFENET, NasaMail, PeaceNet, Sinet, Span, SprintMail, and more. Send a message to the BITNET address LISTSERV@UNMVM.BITNET.
In the TEXT of the message enter: GET NETWORK GUIDE This list is also posted monthly to the Usenet newsgroups comp.mail.misc and news.newusers.questions. The document "FAQ: How to find people's E-mail addresses" is regularly posted to the Usenet group news.answers.
It is also available by email from mail-server@rtfm.mit.edu .
To get a copy, put the command "send usenet/news.answers/finding-addresses" in the body of your message. Chapter 8: Free expert assistance ================================= This may sound too good to be true.
Many computer experts are ready to help YOU without asking a dollar in return.
The same is the case with experts in other areas. You have an impossible decision to make.
A lawyer has a dotted line that requires your signature, or a surgeon has a dotted line in mind for your upper abdomen.
You're not comfortable with the fine print or the diagnosis and wonder if a second opinion is in order.
Just ask, and get help. If you have problems with your communications program, post a message on a bulletin board.
Do the same thing if you want to sell equipment.
Give me intuitive or give me death. 2.
Lack of patience with " ". 3.
It may be unsuited for what I wanted (outlining a book).
Since becoming a born-again Galaxian, I've started using that for the outline, and I'm happy.
There's nothing like a decision and a permanent bonding and lifelong commitment to make a woman happy.
Remember that, you louts. :-) Many users prefer open conference messages to private email for their technical discussions.
Offer opinions when you have something to contribute, or keep silent. In most conferences, some members are critical to "lurkers.
A "lurker" is someone who read without ever contributing.
Don't let them get to you.
Do not feel bad about being silent.
Most other members are there only to watch and learn as well. If you consider buying a newly released computer program, tune in to the section of your favorite online service that deals with products from this manufacturer.
Count messages with complaints of the new program before buying. When you have received your new program, return to read other users' experiences and to pick up practical advice.
It will never hurt to offer your own two cents' worth in the process. | Visit online services that have many users who know more than | | most.
There, you will usually get faster and better replies to | | your questions.
It is far cheaper to ask than to search. | Start with bulletin boards.
If you have never visited a BBS, call one in your neighborhood to get a feel for what this is.
Most of them can be accessed free.
Usually, their only requirement is that you answer some self-presentation questions before being granted full access to their system. Most bulletin boards offer conferencing and archives filled with shareware and public domain software.
Many also have files or bulletins listing telephone numbers of other boards in your country or area. The trick is to find know-how.
The larger the online service, the more skilled people are likely to "meet" there regularly. Therefore, if local bulletin boards fail to satisfy your needs, visit the large commercial services.
CompuServe and EXEC-PC are two services in the top league.
If you buy modems from Semafor A/S, the best place for expert advice is Semaforum BBS (tel. +4741-370-11710).
A large software library. IBM Applications - about all kind of applications.
On EXEC-PC, look under MS-DOS systems.
There is a LOTUS conference on RelayNet.
WordPerfect Corp. has a support forum on CompuServe.
WORDPERF is the equivalent offering on RelayNet.
Our choice was searching by keywords.
Here is one of them: Filename : INTOUC.ARC Forum: AMIGAUSER Lib: Communications Lib #: 5 Submitter: [76702,337] 24-Mar-89 Size: 51200 Accesses: 157 This is a modified Comm1.34.
It supports both VT100 and ANSI. The VT100 emulation is based on Dave Wecker's VT100 program. There is automatic dialer, split screen that is configurable, phone book, and other nice features. This is what we were looking for.
First, enter GO AMIGAUSER to get to the forum.
Enter "DL 5" to get to Downloading Library number 5. INTOUCH.ARC was retrieved using the CompuServe Quick B transfer protocol.
This protocol is usually the most efficient choice on this service. There are also active Amiga forums on BIX, GEnie, and CIX (England). Apple users ----------- FidoNet has an APPLE conference.
BITNET has APPLE2-L (APPLE2- L@BROWNVM).
This is so even if the vendor is out of business long ago.
CompuServe is a good place to start. Chapter 9: Your electronic daily news ===================================== Read national and global news before they are announced by the traditional media.
Get those interesting background facts.
Read special interest news stories that seldom appear in print. Sure, you read newspapers, watch TV, and listen to radio.
The online news has an enormous width and depth.
Besides "popular" news, you will find stories that few editors bother to print.
This may give you better insight in current developments, and in as much details as you can take. Most commercial online services offer news.
Most of their stories come from large news agencies and newspapers.
So, professional online users compare prices. National news ------------- In Norway, we have long been able to read local language news from print media like Aftenposten, Dagens Naeringsliv, Kapital, and news wires from NTB and other local sources.
Similarly, local language news is available online in most countries. The cost of reading local news on national online services tends to be more expensive than on major global online services.
As competition among global news providers increases, however, this is bound to change. International news ------------------ "The Global Village" is an old idea in the online world.
News from most parts of the world has long been globally available. A while ago, a well-known Norwegian industrialist visited my office.
I showed off online searching in NewsNet newsletters and stumbled over a story about his company.
The Japanese want news in their language, and the French in French.
If they can get the news earlier than their competitors, however, most are willing to read English. Few master many languages.
Unless you live in a country where they talk Arabic, Chinese or French, chances are that you cannot read news in these languages.
English, however, is a popular second choice in many countries, and it has become the unofficial language of the online world. Another thing is that reading local language news is risky. Translators often make mistakes.
It is commonly used to refer to a range of ailments from chest pains to actual heart failure." Your "personal online daily newspaper" will often give you the news faster and more correctly than traditional print media.
The total cost for seven minutes was US$6.00, which included the cost of a long distance call to Oslo. I read some stories, while they scrolled over the screen.
All was captured to a file on my hard disk for later study.
The size of this file grew to 32.000 characters, or almost 15 single-spaced typewritten pages (A-4 size).
If I had spent less time reviewing the lists of available stories, seven minutes would have given a larger file. When I had entered my user ID and password, a menu of stories came up on my screen.
The headline read "News from CompuServe." The two first items caught my attention, and I requested the text.
One had 20 lines about an easier method of finding files in the forum libraries.
The other had ten lines about how to write addresses for international fax messages. The command GO APV brought me directly to Associated Press News Wires.
You'll find such tricks by reading the online services' user manuals.
Pressing ENTER gave a new list.
None of them were of any interest. Pressing M (for previous menu) returned me to the APV-1 menu (the videotext page number is given in the upper right corner of each menu display).
I was due to leave for Japan in a couple of weeks, and entered 8 at the MORE ! prompt to read.
Threat 9 Yelstin Said Resting At Home 0 SS Auschwitz Guard Found Dead MORE ! Here, I used another trick from the user manual.
Entering "5,6,9" gave three stories in one batch with no pauses between them.
If I had read the menu more carefully, I might probably also have selected story 0.
It looked like an interesting item. "This is enough of the Associated Press," I thought, and typed G NEWS.
The service presented itself in these words: "Throughout the day The Business Wire makes available press releases, news stories, and other information from the world of business.
Information on hundreds of different companies is transmitted daily to The Business Wire's subscribers." Then #7: "This database contains selected full-text stories from 48 newspapers from across the United States.
Classified ads are NOT included in the full-text of each paper." The list of newspapers included Boston Globe, Chicago Tribune and San Francisco Chronicle (known for many interesting inside stories from Silicon Valley). Choice 8 gave news from England.
There, I selected UK News Clips, which gave the following options: U.K.
You get a selection menu of the first ten stories found.
A menu with an additional ten stories costs another $6.00, etc. You pay US$6.00 to read the full text of selected stories.
These rates are added to CompuServe's normal access rates. The news service Soviet Crisis was my final destination.
I read another fifty lines, entered OFF (for "goodbye CompuServe"), and received the following verdict: Thank you for using CompuServe! Off at 09:03 EDT 19-Sep-91 Connect time = 0:07 Seven minutes.
Fifteen typed pages of text.
Not bad! An overwhelming choice ---------------------- I am confident that your "daily online newspaper" will contain other stories.
If you're into computers, you may want to start with Online Today, CompuServe's daily newspaper.
It brings short, informative news stories about the computer industry. NewsBytes is another interesting source for computer news.
It offers global headline news from its bureaus around the world.
The articles are sorted in sections called APPLE, BUSINESS, GENERAL, GOVERNMENT, IBM, REVIEW, TELECOM, TRENDS and UNIX.
A favorite! Newsnet is also available through Genie, ZiffNet on CompuServe, NewsNet, Dialog, in the newsgroup clari.nb on Usenet, and various BBS systems around the world.
I read it through a Norwegian BBS (EuroNet in Haugesund). For general news, start with major newswires, like Associated Press, Agence France-Presse, Xinhua, Reuters, and the like.
You will find them on many commercial services including NewsNet, CompuServe, and Dialog. FROGNET - The French Way ------------------------ If you know French, check out FROGNET.
This French language service brings daily news from Agence France Press, and often has added excerpts from the French dailies. FROG is distributed by the services of the French embassy in Washington.
It covers world affairs, European and French items, assembled, naturally, from a French point of view. The service is free.
To subscribe, send a message through the Internet to FROG@GUVAX.GEORGETOWN.EDU .
It should contain your answers to the following electronic application form.
OK, here's some instructions in "French ASCII": * Pour les dates veuillez utiliser le format Francais (DD/MM/YY).
Check in regularly to read what members report about what they have seen, done, heard, or discovered. By the way, professional news hunters have also discovered this.
It is a digest of the latest developments in the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
The report is published Monday through Friday by the RFE/RL Research Institute, a division of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty Inc. in Germany. Some mailing lists bring a steady flow of news from various sources.
SEASIA-L@MSU - The Southeast Asia Discussion List - is one example.
Regularly, it brings full-text news stories from Inter Press Service, regional news agencies, and newspapers/radio.
Some examples: On Jul. 30, 1992, a full-text story from IPS: "PHILIPPINES: RAMOS URGES REPEAL OF ANTI-COMMUNIST LAW.
On Aug. 13, 1992, full- text story from The New Straits Times (Singapore): "Schoolgirs involved in flesh trade, says Farid.
On Aug. 31, "ANTI-VIETNAMESE FORCE TURNS UP IN CAMBODIA" (Reuter). SEASIA-L also brings "underground" reports like "The Burma Focus," a bimonthly newsletter published by the All Burma Students' Democratic Front. ECUADOR brings news from Ecuador.
Daily news bulletins from "Diario Hoy" are posted to the list.
Send rone@skat.usc.edu your subscription request. Many CompuServe forums have news sections.
If you're into Hot News and Rumors about Amiga Computers, read messages in section 3 of the Amiga Tech Forum. Consumer Electronics Forum has the section "New Products/News." The Journalist Forum has "Fast Breaking News!
The Motor Sports Forum has "Racing News/Notes.
The Online Today Forum has "In the News." NewsNet's list of newsletters that you can read or search online is long, and back issues are also available.
Their forums function as expert sources.
Here, you will often learn about products and trends sometimes before the magazines hit the newsstand. InfoWorld, an American computer magazine, runs the InfoWorld OnLine service on CompuServe.
You can browse this or previous weeks' comparisons and reviews, or search the entire collection.
You can search by company name, product, software and hardware category. Britain's two best-selling PC magazines share the PC Plus/PC Answers Online forum on CompuServe (GO PCPLUS). PC Magazine, another American magazine, has several forums on CompuServe.
They also operate a bulletin board.
People from AI Expert Magazine can be encountered in the AI Expert Forum.
Dr. Dobb's Journal is in the Dr. Dobb's Journal Forum. The Entrepreneur's Small Business Forum (CompuServe) is managed by representatives from the magazine.
Live Sound!, a magazine devoted to the MIDI sound field, occupies section and library 9 of the MIDI B Vendor Forum. Time magazine has a forum on America Online.
For information about how to join, send email to LISTSERV@vm1.nodak.edu (or LISTSERV@NDSUVM1 on BITNET).
Read Chapter 14 for more on this. While secondary research can never replace primary information gathering, it often satisfies most information needs related to any task or project.
The large number of online offerings is bewildering.
To be successful, you must have a sound search strategy. Your first task is to locate useful SOURCES of information.
The next, to decide how best to find that specific piece of information online.
You must PLAN your search. Although one source of information, like an online database, is supposed to cover your area of interest, it may still be unable to give you what you want.
Let me explain with an example: You're tracking a company called IBM (International Business Machines).
Your first inclination is to visit forums and clubs concerned with products delivered by this company.
There, you plan to search message bases and file libraries. What is likely to happen, is that the search term IBM gives so many hits that you almost drown.
To find anything of interest in these forums, your search terms must be very specific. General news providers, like Associated Press, may be a better alternative.
Usually, they just publish one or two stories on IBM per week.
Don't expect to learn about details that are not of interest to the general public. AP's stories may be too general for you.
The amount of "noise" (the level of irrelevancy) also varies.
Start by asking other online people for advice.
This may be the fastest way to interesting sources. If looking for information about agriculture and fisheries, visit conferences about related topics.
Visit CompuServe's Working From Home Forum, which has a section for information professionals (#4), and the section for new librarians in the Journalism Forum. Patent searchers are a very specialized group.
They discuss common problems on Dialog's DialMail.
Their bulletin board is named PIUG. Buy user manuals ---------------- Some online services send free user information manuals to their users.
Others charge extra for them.
They're worth their weight in gold. The user manuals from Dialog, Dow Jones News/Retrieval and CompuServe make good reading.
The last two also publish monthly magazines full of search tips, information about new sources, user experiences, and more.
Dialog distributes the monthly newsletter Chronolog. NewsNet customers periodically receive a printed listing of available newsletters by subject area, and a presentation of their information providers.
The NewsNet Action Letter (monthly) is also distributed by mail. On some services, you can retrieve the help texts in electronic form.
Doing that is not a bad idea.
It is often quicker to search a help file on your disk, than to browse through a book. Monitor the offerings --------------------- Professional information searchers monitor the activity in the online world.
They search databases for information about new sources of information, and regularly read about new services. On most online services, you can search databases of available offerings, and a section with advertisements about their own 'superiorities'.
Box 31098, Phoenix, AZ 85046, U.S.A. Tel.: +1-602-996-2283).
You can read the text on NewsNet about one week before it appears in print. These two newsletters can also be read and searched on Dialog and Data-Star, as part of the Information Access PTS Newsletter Database.
Each word in every article and headline has been indexed and can be located in all databases.
The price for subscriptions of the printed version is US$99.95.
Price per set: US$ 420.00. The European Common Market -------------------------- Many services bring news and information from the European Common Market.
The Common Market's free database service, I'M-GUIDE, is a good place to start. I'M-GUIDE is available through ECHO in Luxembourg by telnet to echo.lu .
At the question "PLEASE ENTER YOUR CODE," enter ECHO and press Return. You can search I'M-GUIDE for information sources, send email inquiries to ECHO, and more.
Put the following command in the TEXT of your message: GET LIBRARY PACKAGE Cuadra/Elsevier (Box 872, Madison Square Station, New York, NY 10159-2101, U.S.A.
Tel.: +1 212 633 3980) sells a Directory of Online Databases, which lists databases available around the world. The catalog can be searched on Orbit and Data-Star. The Online Access Publishing Group Inc. (Chicago) sells "The Online Access Guide.
Annual subscription for this printed manual costs US$18.95 (six issues - 1992). The LINK-UP magazine is another interesting source.
If living in North America, contact Learned Information Inc., 143 Old Mariton Pike, Medford, NJ 08055-8707, U.S.A..
If living elsewhere, contact Learned Information (Europe) Ltd., Woodside, Hinskey Hill, Oxford OX1 5AU, England, if you live outside North America.
Price: US$25.00 for six issues/year (1993).
An online version is available through ZiffNet's Business Database Plus on CompuServe. Two monthly magazines, Information World Review (price: GBP 30/year) and FULLTEXT SOURCES ONLINE from BiblioData Inc. in the United States, is also available through Learned Information. (BiblioData, P.O.
Box 61, Needham Heights, MA 02194, U.S.A.) FULLTEXT SOURCES ONLINE publishes their listing of full-text databases twice per year.
The price is GBP 50 GBP per booklet or GBP 90 per year. The newsletter SCANNET TODAY (c/o Helsinki University of Techn. Library, Otnaesvaegen 9, SF-02150 ESBO, Finland) presents news of Scandinavian databases by country.
Subscription is free. Computer Readable Databases from Gale Research is available both in print and online through Dialog.
What is the best approach on one service, may be useless on others. Most services offer full online documentation of their search commands.
You can also select messages to be read based on text strings in the subject titles.
The command rs;s;CIS Access from Japan;62928 displays all messages with the text "CIS Access from Japan" in their subject titles starting with message number 62928. Online searching often starts by selecting databases.
This can save you time and money, if there are too many hits.
Often, you can limit the search by library, date, file name, or file extension.
You can search for text strings in the description of the contents of a file, or use key words. Example: You're visiting a bulletin board based on the BBS program RBBS-PC.
You want a program that can show GIF graphics picture files.
Such files are typically described like this: VUIMG31.EXE 103105 07-15-91 GIF*/TIFF/PCX Picture Viewer/Printer From left to right: file name, size in bytes, date available, and a 40 character description. You can search the file descriptions for the string "gif".
You do this by entering the term "s gif all".
This will probably give you a list of files.
Some will have the letters GIF in the file name.
Others will have them in the description field. Using ANDs and ORs ------------------ Boolean searching may seem confusing at first, unless you already understand the logic.
There are three Boolean operators that searchers use to combine search terms: AND, OR, and NOT. Use the Boolean operator AND to retrieve smaller amounts of information.
It gets rid of any record in a database that contains the word that you've "notted" out.
For example, searching for "IBM NOT APPLE" drops records containing the sentence, "IBM and Apple are computer giants.
The record will be dropped, even if this is the only mention of Apple in an article, and though it is solely about IBM. Use NOT to drop sets of hits that you have already seen.
Then look at the first five or 10 records, but look only at the headline and the indexing.
This will show you what terms are used by indexers to describe your idea and the potential for confusion with other ideas. Use proximity operators to search multiword terms.
If searching for "market share," you want the two words within so many words of another.
The order of the words, however, doesn't matter.
Dialog, Dun & Bradstreet, NewsNet, and Individual Inc. have signed up for the program. You can request a search by direct email to say Dialog.
The search results will be returned to you via MCI Mail or MCI Fax. With Dun and Bradstreet, you call them for a credit report and they send it to you.
A recent copy had over two thousand lines of text.
Each mailing list is described with one line.
All these mailing lists can be used by email through the Internet.
Full address" contains their BITNET email addresses.
List title" is a short textual description of each conference. Keep the list on your hard disk.
This makes it easier to find sources of information, when you need them. Subscribing to mailing lists ---------------------------- Each line in the list above refers to a mailing list, also often called 'discussion list'.
If this host is your nearest BITNET LISTSERV, then send the request to the address in column two by replacing the list name by LISTSERV. Example: AESRG-L@UMCVMB is administered by LISTSERV@UMCVMB.
Subscribe (or signoff) by email to LISTSERV@UMCVMB.BITNET . If there is a LISTSERV closer to where you live, then you should subscribe to the nearby system rather than to the remote.
This helps keep the total costs of the international network down. Example: You live in Norway.
The nearest LISTSERV is at FINHUTC.
To subscribe to AESRG-L@UMCVMB, send to LISTSERV@FINHUTC.BITNET . Use the addresses in column two when sending messages to the other members of the discussion lists, but do NOT send your subscription requests to this address!!
If you do, it will be forwarded to all members of the mailing list.
Chances are that nothing will happen, and everybody will see how sloppy you are. So, you subscribe by sending a command to a LISTSERV.
The method is similar to what we did when subscribing to Infonets in Chapter 7.
If your name is Jens Jensen, and you want to subscribe to SOVNET-L, send this message through the Internet (assuming that NDSUM1 is your nearest LISTSERV host): To: LISTSERV@NDSUVM1.BITNET Subject: (You can write anything here.
Will be ignored.) Text: SUB SOVNET-L Jens Jensen When your subscription has been registered, you will receive a confirmation.
From this date, all messages sent to the list will be forwarded to your mailbox. (Send "SIGNOFF SOVNET-L" to this address, when you have had enough.) Some lists will forward each message to you upon receipt.
Others will send a periodic digest (weekly, monthly, etc.). To send a message to SOVNET-L, send to the BITNET address in column two above.
Send to SOVNET-L@INDYCMS.BITNET Review the following example.
If you subscribed through LISTSERV@FINHUTC, sending the SIGNOFF command to LISTSERV@NDSUVM1 will get you nowhere.
Send to LISTSERV@FINHUTC. Never send the SIGNOFF command to the discussion list itself! Always send to the LISTSERV. Monitoring the action --------------------- THINKNET is an online magazine forum dedicated to "thoughtfulness in the cybertime environment.
It brings reviews of significant and thought-provoking exchanges within our new electronic nation. This electronic publication is free.
If you're interested in philosophy, subscribe by sending a message through Internet to thinknet@world.std.com .
The library contains several good help files for novice networkers.
A great place for new Internet users! Other sources available through the Internet -------------------------------------------- The Interest Groups List of Lists is available by electronic mail from mail-server@nisc.sri.com .
Send a message with the following text in the message body: Send netinfo/interest-groups Note that as of April 1993, the file was over 1,100,000 bytes in size.
It will be returned to you in moderately sized pieces. You can search the List of Lists by email.
Say you're looking for a mailing list related to Robotics.
Each mailing list is represented by one line.
To obtain this list, send a message to LISTSERV@DARTCMS1.BITNET .
Enter the following command in the text of the message: INDEX SIGLISTS InterNIC Information Service maintains an announcement-only service at LISTSERV@is.internic.net called net-happenings.
It distributes announcements about tools, conferences, calls for papers, news items, new mailing lists, electronic newsletters like EDUPAGE, and more.
To subscribe, send a message to the LISTSERV containing this command: subscribe net-happenings Your Name InterNIC's automated mail service is at MAILSERV@RS.INTERNIC.NET. It allows access to documents and files via email.
We butcher them, whenever we find something of interest.
The "corpses" are dumped in a high pile on the floor. To retrieve a story in this pile is difficult and time consuming, unless the title is printed on the cover. Luckily, there are shortcuts.
Once you have a list with page/issue references, turning the pages gets much easier. PC Magazine is owned by the media giant Ziff-Davis.
PC MagNet is a part of ZiffNet on CompuServe.
So is Computer Database Plus, which lets you search through more than 250,000 articles from over 200 popular newspapers and magazines.
The oldest articles are from early 1987.
In addition, you pay US$1.00 per abstract and US$1.50 per full-text article (1992).
News & World Report. In the next chapter, we will present another ZiffNet magazine database: the Business Database Plus. Magazine Index (MI), from Information Access Company (U.S.A.), is another source worth looking at.
It covers over 500 consumer and general-interest periodicals as diverse as Special Libraries and Sky & Telescope, Motor Trend and Modern Maturity, Reader's Digest and Rolling Stone.
Many titles go as far back as 1959. Although most of the database consists of brief citations, MI also contains the complete text of selected stories from a long list of periodicals.
It is available through Dialog, CompuServe, BRS, Data-Star, Dow Jones News/Retrieval, Nexis, and others. Say you so often get references to a given magazine that you want a paper subscription.
Try the Electronic Newsstand, which is available by gopher or telnet to gopher.netsys.com.
If these Internet commands are unavailable, try mail to staff@enews.com. Finding that book ----------------- Over 270 libraries around the world are accessible by the Internet telnet command.
Some of them can also be accessed by Internet mail. This is the case with BIBSYS, a database operated by the Norwegian universities' libraries. I am into transcendental meditation.
I'm therefore constantly looking for books on narrow topics like "mantra".
To search BIBSYS for titles of interest, I sent mail to genserv@pollux.bibsys.no . The search word was entered in the subject title of the message.
By return email, I got the following report: Date: Fri, 21 Jul 93 13:54:18 NOR From: GENSERV@POLLUX.BIBSYS.NO Subject: Searching BIBSYS Search request : MANTRA Database-id : BIBSYS Search result : 5 hits. The following is one of the references.
I have forwarded it to my local library for processing: Forfatter : Gonda, J. Tittel : Mantra interpretation in the Satapatha-Brahmana / by J.
Gonda. Trykt : Leiden : E.J.
Its Network User Address (NUA) is 23824125080000.
When connected, enter RC8000 and press return.
The system will respond with ATT.
Enter KB REX, and you're ready to search Dansk Bogfortegnelse since 1980, Dansk Musikfortegnelse since 1980, and ISDS Denmark. BARTON is the library system of Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Its database contains everything received since 1974 except magazine articles, brochures, and technical reports from sources outside M.I.T.
Press ENTER a couple of times to access the system. On CompuServe, there is a section for book collectors in the Coin/Stamp/Collectibles Forum, and a Weekly Book Chat section in the ScienceFiction & Fantasy Forum.
Failing access to gopher, send your email requests to roswell@fox.nstn.ns.ca . The Book Review Digest (GO BOOKREVIEW) is CompuServe's database of bibliographical references and abstracts of reviews (since 1983).
You can search by title, author, and keywords found in the text of book reviews.
CompuServe also offers book reviews through Magazine Database Plus. "Books in print" is a North American bibliographic reference database.
It is available on BRS and CompuServe. South African Bibliographic and Information Network has a gopher service at info2.sabinet.co.za. FidoNet has COMICS (The Comic Book Echo), BITNET the list Rare Book and Special Collections Catalogers (NOTRBCAT@INDYCMS).
NewsNet has the COMPUTER BOOK REVIEW newsletter and on The Well you'll find the "Computer Books" conference.
OCLC's WorldCat is a reference database covering books and materials in libraries worldwide. Bookworms may appreciate the BITNET discussion list DOROTHYL (LISTSERV@KENTVM.KENT.EDU), and especially if they like Agatha Christie, Josephine Tey and Dorothy L.
Sayers. On Usenet, you will find alt.books.reviews, k12.library, alt.books.technical, rec.arts.books, and misc. books.technical, and more. On the Internet, there are a rapidly growing number of library online public-access catalogs (OPACs) from all over the world.
Some provide users with access to additional resources, such as periodical indexes of specialized databases.
More than 270 library catalogs are now online (1992). An up-to-date directory of libraries that are interactively accessible through Internet can be had by anonymous ftp from ftp.unt.edu (then: cd library).
Check out the end of Chapter 12 for how to get the file by email (ftpmail). You will also find full electronic versions of books.
This book is one example.
Many texts are courtesy of Project Gutenberg, an organization whose goal is to develop a library of 10,000 public domain electronic texts by the year 2000. Since books are often quite large, they are somewhat bulky for email transfer.
If you have direct Internet access, use anonymous ftp instead. Many books are available through the /pub/almanac/etext directory at oes.orst.edu.
Many of them are impossible to read, unless your computer can handle the special characters, and you know their meaning. Still interested?
Next, it treats how to monitor competitors, prospects, suppliers, markets, technologies, and trends.
It winds down with marketing and sales by modem. Project coordination -------------------- So far we have mainly been looking at sources of information.
Let us start this chapter with some words about 'online conference rooms' for project coordination. Several services offer rental of private conference areas to businesses.
Corporations have discovered them to be an efficient way of coordinating a group of people, who are far apart from each other geographically.
They are also useful when team members are constantly on the move and hard to gather face to face. Many international companies use such services regularly.
They range from tight coordination with suppliers and subcontractors, to development of company strategies and new organizational structures. Renting an online conference room has advantages over doing it in-house.
The company does not have to buy software, hardware, expensive equipment for communications, and hire people for to run and maintain a conferencing system.
The more international the business, the better. For ideas about how to set up and operate a coordination conference.
Study how volunteer organizations do it.
Read the dialog between coordinators to get an idea of how the medium is being used. Old conference messages are stored in notebook files.
You can therefore have the full coordination dialogs sent you by email. Send all requests for notebook files to LISTSERV@VM1.NODAK.EDU Getting notebook files is a two-step process.
In your first message to the LISTSERV, ask for a list of available files.
Do this by using the following command in your email: INDEX KIDPLAN The LISTSERV will return a list of files.
You just want file names, and dates.
This may prevent you from receiving large notebook files.
If this happens, contact your local postmaster for help. Some email systems are unable to forward your return-address correctly to LISTSERV.
Most of the dialog is based on the written word.
The flow of information can be substantial thus causing an information overload for some participants. To overcome this, many companies appoint moderator-organizers for their online conferences.
This person Filters contributions, gathers new information, summarizes scattered contributions, does background research. Filtering may be needed in conferences that are open to customers and media.
The main purpose, however, is to help participants cope with the absolute flow of information. A conference can have an educational purpose.
What new products are they promoting?
Who are their joint-venture partners?
What else may influence their willingness to buy from us? What prices are our major suppliers offering other buyers? Should we get other sources for supplies?
What major contracts have they received recently?
Will these influence their ability to serve our needs? What new technologies are available now and how are they being used by others? Threats are the reverse side of opportunities.
What are our competitors doing?
What products and services have they launched recently?
What are our competitors' weaknesses and strengths?
What relationships do they maintain with our most important customers?
How is their customer support functioning, and what methods are they using in their quality assurance? Each company has its own priorities when it comes to watching the external environment.
The computer will do it for you. Also, you do not have to read all stories as carefully as you would with printed material.
Most experienced users just read what is important now, and save selected parts of the retrieved texts on their hard disks for later reference. We handle printed material differently.
Most of us make notes in the margins, underline, use colors, cut out pages and put into folders.
These tricks are important, since it is so hard to find information in a pile of papers. Not so with electronic information.
It searched through 4.2 megabyte on my 80486-based notebook computer. If you use an indexing program, the search may be completed even faster. I guess you can see it coming.
This private database therefore contains more relevant information per kilobyte than the online databases I'm using.
It is usually easier and faster. | On the other hand, your in-house database will never be fully up- to-date.
Too many things happen all the time. Also, the search terms used for your daily intake of news will never cover all future needs.
They select the news that you want - 24 hours a day - from a continuous stream of stories from newspapers, magazines, news agencies and newsletters. Several services make news immediately available, when they have been received by satellite.
The delay previously used to protect the interests of print media is disappearing quickly. Online services usually deliver news sooner than in print media, radio or TV. You select stories by giving the online service a set of search terms.
The hits are then sent to your electronic mailbox, for you to retrieve at will. 'Clipping' gives an enormous advantage.
Few important details escape your attention, even when you cannot go online daily.
The stories will stay in your mailbox until you have read them. 'Clipping' on CompuServe ------------------------ CompuServe's Executive News Service (ENS) monitor more than 8,000 stories daily.
They write company news reports about revenue, profit, dividend, purchases of other companies, changes in management, and other important items for judging a company's results.
They write regular opinions about Industry, Governments, Economics, Leading indicators, and Commerce. Reuters also offers full-text stories from Financial Times and other leading European newspapers.
Its Textline is a database with news from some 1,500 publications in over 40 countries.
It includes Reuters' own news services, and has translated abstracts of stories from some 17 languages.
InterPress Service covers Third World countries.
Middle East News Network integrates the contents of 28 information sources covering this region of the world. The Executive News Service lets you define up to three 'clipping folders'.
Supply up to seven 'key phrases' that define your interests.
These key phrases will be used when searching stories as they are sent.
Hits will be 'clipped' and held in a folder for you to review at your convenience. Each folder can hold 500 stories.
Select those you want to read, forward to others as email, or copy to another folder. Delete those that you do not need. Defining key phrases is simple.
The important thing is not to get too much nor too little.
General phrases will give you many unwanted stories while too narrow phrases will cause you to miss pertinent stories.
Let me illustrate with an example: The phrase APPLE COMPUTERS will only clip stories that have the words APPLE and COMPUTERS next to each other.
This may be too narrow.
Specifying just APPLE or just COMPUTERS would be too broad.
When I called NewsFlash to check, it typically reported: NEWSFLASH NOTIFICATION **************************************************************** 4 Total Newsflash hits.
Your search profiles may contain an almost unlimited number of subjects. Delivery of hits is concurrent.
Twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. Sprintmail's clipping service (U.S.A.) scans stories from more than 15 international newswires.
FT Profile's E-mail Alert searches daily on that particular day's issue of the Financial Times. Dow Jones News/Retrieval has NewsScan (//CLIP).
It can deliver by fax or email to a mailbox on another online service.
Here, your alternative is various methods of regular selective reading. Many conferencing systems let you select messages by keywords. BIX has Keyword Indexer.
It let you search public conferences after a key word or phrase and report hits.
Then it offers you to review (or retrieve) messages of interest. CompuServe's forums have efficient 'read selective' and 'quick scan' commands.
Another trick is to limit your reading to specific message sections. The high forum message volume is a special problem on this service.
Old messages are regularly deleted to make room for new ones. (Often called "scroll rate.") Some popular forums do not keep messages for more than a couple of days before letting them go.
You must visit often to get all new information. Many bulletin boards can be told to store unread messages about given topics in a compressed transportation file.
This file can then be retrieved at high speed.
Special communication programs (often called offline readers) and commands are available to automate this completely. Powerful scripts (see Chapter 12) can do automatic selection of news stories based on the occurrence of keywords (e.g., a company name) in headlines.
I have developed such a system for selecting news from the Online Today magazine on CompuServe. Subscription services --------------------- It is useful to dig, dig, and dig for occurrences of the same search words, but digging is not enough.
Unless you periodically scan "the horizon," you risk missing new trends, viewpoints and other important information. It can be difficult to find good sources of information that suits your needs.
One trick is to watch the reports from your clipping services.
Over time, you may discover that some sources bring more interesting stories than others.
Take a closer look at these.
Consider browsing their full index of stories regularly. If your company plans exportation to countries in Asia, check out MARKET: ASIA PACIFIC on NewsNet.
The newsletter is published monthly by W-Two Publications, Ltd., 202 The Commons, Suite 401, Ithaca, NY 14850, U.S.A. (phone: +1-607-277-0934).
Annual print subscription rate: US$279. The index itself may be a barometer of what goes on.
Note the number of Words/Lines.
Review indexes of potentially interesting newsletters.
Save them on your hard disk for future references.
You never know when they may be of use. The newsletters within computers and electronics bring forecasts of market trends, evaluation of hardware and software, prices, information about IBM and other leading companies.
Monthly reports on the business of exporting.
Separate services grouped by geographic area in the United States and Canada.) Many newsletters are focusing on technology intelligence: Sensor Technology ----------------- Provides updates on research being conducted in this rapidly evolving technology.
Concentrates on their fabrication, industrial applications, and potential markets. Futuretech ---------- Provides briefings on focused, strategic technologies that have been judged capable of making an impact on broad industrial fronts.
Consequently, they are a little harder to locate.
Chapter. (PR and Marketing Forum, Library 8.) Distance Education Newsletter - Analyzes the impact of elec- tronic communication on academic research. (Telecommunications Forum, Library 13.) Hint: To find newsletters in the IBM PC oriented forums, enter GO IBMFF to search.
Select "Keyword" as search criteria, and enter "newsletter".
Add further keywords to narrow the search to your areas of interest.
CompuServe also has other file find services. Databases with an international orientation ------------------------------------------- Information Access provides reference databases to businesses.
You can search 10 databases with full-text stories, abstracts, and indexes from international magazines. PROMPT (Overview of Markets and Technology) is the largest of them.
You can read these news through Reuters (e.g., on NewsGrid/CompuServe), Down Jones News/Retrieval, and Information Access. The Jerusalem Institute for Western Defence provides a monthly newsletter with research of the Arab press.
It has unedited quotes from around the Arab world.
The Boomer Report concentrates on the habits of the "the baby-boom generation." Affaersdata in Sweden offers the Swedish-language service "Export-Nytt," which brings short news stories about export/import from all over the world.
The Business Dateline contains news from more than 150 regional business publications in the United States and Canada. The ABI/Inform business database (UMI/Data Courier) contains abstracts and full-text articles from 800 business magazines and trade journals.
The sources include the Asia Pacific Journal of Management, Business Korea, and the World Bank Research Observer. Market research reports from Frost & Sullivan are available through Data-Star.
It produces over 250 market reports each year, in 20 industrial sectors.
Its purpose is to help these countries in their transition to market economies.
It links business persons in Western Europe-Asia-North America with those in Eastern Europe. Subscription is free and for anyone.
It contains company profiles of around two million European companies. Pergamon's ICC U.K.
Its European Company Library contains information about over two million companies in the area. Nexis (Mead Data Central International) brings news and background information about companies and the different countries in Europe.
The directory can be used for referrals, selection of associate counsel, and evaluation of competitive counsel. Check out KOMPASS EUROPE when planning exports to the EEC.
Its database contains details about companies in Sweden, Denmark, Germany, United Kingdom, Holland, Belgium, France, Spain, Italy, Sweden and Norway. (On Dialog) ILINK has the EEC-I conference (Discussion about the European Common Marked).
Profile offers full-text searches (and a clipping service) in stories from Financial Times.
The database is being updated daily at 00:01. Those exporting to the EEC need to master German, French, Italian, and Spanish besides having a common knowledge of English. Conversation is the easy part.
Keywords: Race, Esprit, Delta, Aim, Fast, Brite, Comett, Climat, Eclair and Tedis. CONCISE (COsine Network's Central Information Service for Europe) is a pan-European information service to the COSINE scientific and industrial research community.
In Norway, Statens Datasentral lets you search stories from the NTB news agency.
Aftenposten, a major newspaper, offers full-text stories from their A-TEKST database, from Dagens Naeringsliv (DNX), and the Kapital magazine. Before meeting with people from Norsk Hydro, go online to get recent news about these companies.
It will only take a couple of minutes.
The information is presented in the local language of the different countries. KOMPASS is used by easy menus.
New users pay a one time fee of around US$85.
The list of available services is long in many countries. How to monitor your competitors ------------------------------- Sales managers need to know what competitors are doing.
Lacking this knowledge, it is risky to maneuver in the market. Start by making a strategy for online market intelligence.
Here are some practical hints: (1) Select online services that offer clipping of stories and information based on your search words or phrases.
Examples: NewsFlash on NewsNet, //TRACK on Dow Jones News/Retrieval, The Executive News Service on CompuServe.
Use these services for automatic monitoring of stock quotes and business news. (2) Read what investment analysts and advisors write about your competitors.
Most markets are well covered by databases and other sources of information. (3) Read what competitors write about themselves.
Search for patterns and possible niches. (7) Save what you find on your hard disk for future references. Can you get everything through the online medium?
Of course not! Don't expect to find production data, production formulas, detailed outlines of a company's pension plan, or the number of personal computers in a company.
Such information rarely finds its way to public databases. Intelligence by fax ------------------- Financial Times' Profile has Fax Alert.
Predefine your interests using search words.
Stories will be cut and sent to your personal fax number whenever they appear.
Price depends on the number of characters transmitted. Other online services offer similar services. The Bulletin Board as a sales tool ---------------------------------- Many companies - large and small - use bulletin board systems as a marketing instrument.
Here is an example: The San Francisco-based Compact Disk Exchange (Tel.: +1-415-824- 7603) offers a database of used CD records.
Members can call in to buy at very low prices.
They can sell old CDs through the board or buy from other members. (1992) Marketing and sales by modem ---------------------------- The Americans have a gift for this.
You meet them in online forums all over the world, in person or through agents, and especially in computer oriented conferences and clubs. Their main strategy is reference selling.
Make key customers happy, and make sure they tell others. In Chapter 5, I told you what happened when a member wrote about his upgrade to a 425 megabytes hard disk in CompuServe's Toshiba forum.
It made me place my order with his preferred seller. One common sales strategy is to be constantly present in relevant conferences, and spend a generous amount of time helping others.
By proving competence and willingness to help, you build a positive personal profile.
This profile is the key to business, information about competitors and other benefits. To drop quickly into a conference to post an "advertisement," is a waste of time.
These are popular methods for automatic error correction and compression of data.
They ensure faster transfers. They are not of much help when transferring precompressed texts and programs.
They may even make file transfers with protocols like ZMODEM, Kermit, and XMODEM impossible.
If this happens, temporarily turn off the MNP and V.24/V42bis settings in your modem (more about this in appendix 2). Some online services let users retrieve conference messages using a special get or grab function.
This file is then transferred using ZMODEM or similar protocols. Some services offer unattended online work with a variation of the "get compressed file" method.
Read about 'offline readers' in chapter 16 for more about this. The more advanced your software is, the more time it will take to learn how to use it.
The goal is to get an overview of what is being offered and find out how to use it most efficiently.
Notes are made of interesting bulletins, databases, conferences, messages, news services, public domain and shareware programs, games, and more. Capture all of it to disk.
Don't study it until disconnected from the service.
Evaluate the material to prepare for your next moves: FOCUS and ACT. As you learn about offerings, users and applications, your use of the service changes.
What was interesting on your first visits, lose out to new discoveries.
Walk quickly through the information.
Select what you need now, store other interesting items on your hard disk, clip references, and drop the remainder of your capture file. * Learn when and how to use people, computers, libraries and other resources.
Prepare well before going online.
Note that the online resource may not necessarily be the quickest way to the goal.
If you want the name of Michael Jackson's latest album, you may get a faster answer by calling a local music shop. . . . * Make an outline of how to search the service before going online.
If required, start by going online to collect help menus and lists of search commands (unless you already have the printed user information manual).
Study the instructions carefully, plan your visit, and then call back. Often, it may be useful to do trial searches in online data, which you have previously captured to your hard disk.
Do this to check if your use of search words is sensible. Who knows, you may even have what you are searching for right there.
Besides, it is imperative that you use the correct search terms to find what you're looking for. Write your search strategy on a piece of paper.
If you know how to write macros for your communications program, consider writing some for your planned search commands. - Few people can type 240 characters per second.
Using macros may save you time, frustration and money. * It may be wise to do your search in two steps.
On your first visit: Get a LIST of selected headlines or references, and then log off the service. Study your finds, and plan the next step.
Then call back to get full-text of the most promising stories. This strategy is often better than just 'hanging online' while thinking.
When you feel the pressure of the taximeter, it is easy to make costly mistakes. * Novices should always go the easiest way.
Ask SOS Assistance services for help, if available.
Invest in special communication programs with built in automatic online searching features.
You want the right ones. When everything fails --------------------- Data communications is simple - when you master it.
Occasionally, however, you WILL lose data.
You may even experience the worst of all: losing unread private email on your hard disk. A while ago, this happened to a friend.
She logged on to her mailbox service using the communications program Procomm. After capturing all her mail, she tried to send a message.
For some reason, the computer just froze.
It was impossible to close the capture file.
She had to switch the power OFF/ON to continue. All retrieved mail was obviously lost. The other day, I had a similar experience.
After having written a long and difficult letter, something went wrong.
The outfile was inexplicably closed.
The resulting file size was 0 bytes. Both problems were solved by the MS-DOS program CHKDSK run with the /F option.
If you ever get this problem, and have an MS-DOS computer, try it.
It may save your day. Copyright notices and legal stuff --------------------------------- Most commercial online services protect their offerings with copyright notices.
This is especially so for database information and news. Some vendors make you accept in writing not to store captured data on a local media (like diskettes or hard disks).
Others (like Prodigy in the U.S.) force clients to use communication software that makes it impossible to store incoming data to disk. The reason is simple.
Information providers want to protect their income. In most countries, you can quote from what others have written. You can cut pieces out of a whole and use in your own writing.
What you cannot do, however, is copy news raw to resell to others.
This is the case on many chat services.
If you want to pose as Donald Duck or Jack the Ripper, just do that. Many free BBS systems let you register for full access to the service during your first visit.
It is possible to use any name. Don't do that.
Use your true name, unless asked to do otherwise. It's impolite and unrespectful of the other members to participate in online discussions using a false identity. Being helpful is an important aspect of the online world.
The people you meet 'there' use of their time to help you and others. Often free.
The atmosphere is one of gratitude, and a positive attitude toward all members. If you use rude words in public, expect your mailbox to fill with angry messages from others.
Those who respond carefully to personal attacks, will never regret it.
Don't say things online that you would not have said in person. REMEMBER: Words written in a moment of anger or frustration can be stored on at least one hard disk.
Limit your personal "signature" to maximum four lines. * Do not send test messages to a public conference, unless they are set up to serve this purpose. * If someone requests that readers reply by private email, do that.
By including the entire message, you'll only annoy those reading it. * Note that if you USE ALL CAPITAL LETTERS, people will think you're shouting. Finally, smile with me about the following story: According to Time magazine (7/19/93, p.
58), three women who corresponded with Mr. X over the network discovered his duplicity and went public on the network.
Send the draft contract or other texts to your hotel's fax machine or to your client's office to get a printout on paper. Privacy ------- The level of online privacy differs by network, service, and application.
Whatever these services may claim, always expect that someone, somewhere, is able to watch, even record. All mailbox services have at least one person authorized to access your personal mail box in case of an emergency.
Most of the time they not have a right to read it without your permission, but they can. In some countries, mailbox services may let outsiders (like the police) routinely read your private email to check for 'illegal' contents.
In this respect, email is not safer than ordinary mail. The good news is that most 'inspectors' and 'sysops' are good, honest people.
On the other hand, it is useful to know your situation. It is not safe to send sensitive information (like credit card details) by private electronic mail.
They can wait and decide whether to save the conversation in a file until after the conversation has taken place.
With these capabilities widely available, users of chats and talk should always assume that their conversations are being recorded. Do not say indiscreet things in small, informal discussions.
It may be recorded and reposted under embarrassing circumstances. The program PGP has become the defacto international Internet standard for public key encryption. For more on privacy, check out ETHICS-L@MARIST.BITNET.
These centers use different types of hardware and software, and different methods of file transfer. What method to use for file transfers depends on the source host and the type of mailbox computer that you are using.
The transfer usually takes place in two steps: 1.
Transferring files from a remote data center to your local mailbox host. 2.
Transfer from your local mailbox host to your personal computer. Transfer to your local mailbox host ----------------------------------- We will explain the most commonly used method for those who only have access to file transfer by email.
This method can be used by everybody. Transferring plain text files is easy.
Files with imbedded word processor control codes will often have to be treated as binary files.
More about this later. To transfer a text to another user, just send it as an ordinary electronic message. Getting text files from a library on a remote computer is a special case.
Often, they can be had by sending a retrieval command (like GET) by email to the remote center.
After a while, the file will be sent to your mailbox by email.
You can read it like you read other mail. Example: The file BINSTART can be retrieved from the KIDART directory on a computer center in North Dakota, U.S.A.
It explains how to retrieve binary art files from the KIDLINK project's file libraries. To get the file, send a message to the center's mail forwarding 'agent' at LISTSERV@VM1.NODAK.EDU.
The file will arrive in your mailbox after a while. Also, note that lists of available files are usually available by using an "INDEX <directory name>" command.
To get a list of files in the KIDART directory, add the command "INDEX KIDART" in your message above. Non-LISTSERV libraries may use other retrieval commands.
If they do, they often prefer FTP for transfers of binary files like computer programs, pictures, sound, and compressed text files. The bad news is that the FTP command is not available to all users of Internet mail.
These will have to use "FTP by mail," or other tricks to transfer such files.
More about this in a moment. The FTP command gives access to a special file transfer service. It works in the following way: 1.
Logon to your local email host and enter 'FTP remote- center-code'.
Example: 'ftp 134.129.111.1'. This command will connect you to the center in North Dakota mentioned above.
Here, you will be prompted for user name and password.
Enter 'anonymous' as user name, and use your real name or email address as password. This way of logging on to retrieve files is called "transfers by anonymous ftp.
You can use this method on many hosts on the Internet. 2.
When connected to the remote center, you can request transfer of the desired file to your mailbox.
Before doing that, you may have to navigate to a given file catalog (cd directory), and tell the host that the transfer is to be binary (bin).
Finally, initiate the transfer by entering a "GET file name" command. 3.
The file will be transferred to your local mailbox computer at high speed.
Most systems cannot transfer graphics or program files directly, since these files normally contain binary codes (which are outside this ASCII character range). The solution is to convert binary files to text codes using a utility program called UUENCODE.
Use an editor to cut out the codes and paste them to an empty work file.
It is a UUENCODEd picture in GIF graphics format. You can retrieve Denis' creation by sending a GET command to LISTSERV@VM1.NODAK.EDU .
Your next step is uudecoding: Read the message into an editor or a viewing program.
Cut and paste the codes to a work file.
Keep the original as backup.
Use the UUDECODE.COM program to convert ART019 into a GIF formatted file. Now, view the picture with your favorite graphics program. (Or use shareware GIF-viewers like PICEM, VUIMG, and VPIC for MS-DOS computers.
These programs are available from CompuServe's IBM forums and other services.) Sending binary files in uuencoded form has weaknesses.
One is the lack of automatic error correction when sending/receiving e- mail.
Noise on the line can easily distort the picture. File size is another problem.
UUENCODEing typically increases file sizes by almost one third.
Many of them can only be accessed by FTP. Services exist that will do FTP transfers by email for those not having access to the FTP command.
A lot pay extra for long distance calls to other cities and countries, even when this means inferior transmission quality (like when noise characters degrade the data). Others investigate other routings for their data.
One option is the packet data networks.
Most countries have Public Data Networks (PDNs) operated by local telecommunications authorities.
These services are often cheaper than direct calls for some applications, but more expensive for others. Before using a packet data network, you'll need to establish a "Network User Identification" (NUI) with the PDN carrier.
You must also know the Network User Address (NUA) of the hosts that you want to access. In Scandinavia, the local PDNs are called Datapak.
They can be accessed by direct local calls or through leased lines.
To personal users, direct calls are least expensive.
The price per packet or traveler is lower than what it costs to rent the whole train for your trip. National telecommunications monopolies were the first to offer packet data services.
Their rates were moderately lower than for long distance calls, but it was hard to find the relationship between real costs and prices.
This is still the situation in many countries. Throughout the world, efforts to privatize nationwide phone networks continue.
In many countries, this has given us some interesting competitors offering attractive rates for similar services. Their rates differ considerably from country to country, as does the quality of transmissions.
The advantage of using packet data also varies considerably, by application and by country.
Since your usage probably differs from what others do, start accumulating experience data now.
Like this: On services only charging for connect time ------------------------------------------ Capture trip information to a log file.
Here are some general experiences and hints: Long streams of data without stops are cheaper through services that only charge by the minute.
Retrieving software is a typical high volume application. Trips that include navigation from conference to conference, with a little bit of up- and downloading here and there, make the average transfer speed fall dramatically.
It's like driving through a big city at 150 kilometers per hour.
Red lights will reduce the average speed considerably. The actual transferred volume of text per minute will differ from place to place (geographically), and often also from call to call.
It depends on factors like: * How fast you can enter commands and how much time you spend staring at the display before pressing keys, * How long it takes for an online service to react to your commands.
For example, the response time on CompuServe at 04:00 GMT on a Friday morning (it is evening in the U.S.) is much worse than at 10:30 GMT on a Sunday morning.
I think the figures may surprise you. The network services in this chapter will often give you better quality transfers than a direct call.
On the other hand, calling direct may give more characters transferred per minute.
Few PDNs have a directory of available "electronic telephone numbers" for you to consult. The Norwegian PDN, Datapak, used to be my only alternative for access to foreign online services, and I thought that the cost was acceptable.
Not so anymore. My applications require that data be pumped back and forth at maximum speed.
It tells that I have received 537 segments and sent 75. The "Segment" is Datapak's volume measure.
A segment contains up to sixty-four characters and/or carriage returns.
The price is calculated accordingly. At today's prices, Datapak is still my cheapest alternative calling CompuServe for chats. I use Datapak when connecting to TWICS in Tokyo, as the only alternative today is direct calls at a prohibitive cost.
Once connected, they can enter an electronic phone-number to connect to a so-called 'outdial modem' in another city. Once connected to the outdial modem, they can give it dialing commands and have it call any local number.
This way, they can use PC Pursuit to call an online service in the area, or the private modem of a friend. We call PC Pursuit an Outdial service.
Such services normally offer lower rates for access to remote bulletin boards than what it costs to call by long distance.
You don't pay volume charges.
The monthly subscription fee is US$8.00.
You can pay using VISA or MasterCard/Eurocard. In Norway, I have used i-Com to connect to The Well in San Francisco, MetaNet in Virginia, EXEC-PC in Wisconsin, and SciLink in Toronto, Canada.
Once your plane has landed in Milano, you can dial the local i-Com node to connect to your favorite service. i-Com also has a bulletin board (US$13.00/hour).
You do not have to sign any special agreements.
Your CompuServe ID is all you need.
Payment for using these services will appear on your CompuServe bill. CompuServe has special deals with a list of network services, like InfoNet Europe (formerly Computer Sciences Corp.), Istel, FALNET, FENICS, CompuPass, LATA Networks, Tymnet/Sprintnet.
It is even cheaper than calling Oslo for a 2400 bps node for most of my jobs.
There is no surcharge when accessing at non-prime time, and US$7.70 per hour during prime time (weekdays 08:00 to 19:00 local time).
In addition, I pay long distance rates to call the node.
They give higher volume per minute and make | | your accesses even more cost efficient. | Before leaving for a business trip, visit CompuServe to find local access numbers in your destination cities.
You can also access the service by telnet to hermes.merit.edu (binary transfers are impossible, though). IXI - a European alternative to PDN ----------------------------------- IXI is an X.25 data network for European academic, industrial and governmental research centers.
It is sponsored by the EEC under the ESRIN project, and is operated by the Dutch PTT. IXI interconnects national research networks, many national public data networks and several specialized international networks.
It works like a national PDN service, but uses its own Network User Addresses.
For example, Internet email may easily be sent to ATT Mail, Alternex, BIX, BITNET, FredsNaetet, GeoNet, GreenNet, and many others on this list.
Check to see if you really need it, as this service is far from free. DASnet also lets you send email as telex, fax and by ordinary mail.
They charge you by the number of characters transferred, and the destination address. (Contact Anna B.
Lange, DA Systems, Inc., U.S.A.
Tel.: +1-408-559-7434, or write her at AnnaB@11.DAS.NET). FidoNet - grassroots playground ------------------------------- FidoNet is an amateur network consisting of tens of thousands of bulletin boards all over the world.
The network is "loosely coupled," meaning that most of the participating boards are not always connected.
They call each others at regular intervals to exchange mail, often in the middle of the night when the rates are low. Most FidoNet boards have conferences, and allow you to send mail to users of other systems.
NetMail is a term often used for private FidoNet email.
EchoMail is used about its international conferences.
The selection of echomail conferences on a given FidoNet board can be as unique as the rest of the system. RelayNet -------- is another global network of bulletin boards.
It offers exchange of email between systems.
Messages and conference items entered on one system will automatically be copied to other participating boards.
Thus, the ability to send global email is extended to new users every day. Other services -------------- The PDN Connect-USA competes with Starlink in North America. (Connect-USA Communications, Inc., 2625 Pennsylvania NE Suite 225, Albuquerque, New Mexico.
Example: Say you've joined KIDCAFE@vm1.nodak.edu, which usually has a large number of messages each day.
We continue by investigating strategies for finding interesting information on your disk, before winding down with some words about what separates good information from bad. Search and throw away --------------------- To novices, everything is difficult.
During the first online trips, they may feel as if moving to the other side of the globe to start over: They need new newspapers, magazines, information sources, and services. Trial and error are required to find online gold mines.
As you get more experience, focus tends to shift from getting information to digesting. Getting the data gets 'into your fingers', and doesn't bother much anymore.
The number of retrieved lines increases.
The only bad news is that your reading speed remains at the same old level. In our time, people tend to talk more than they listen, and you usually find more information than knowledge.
Therefore, say NO to irrelevant information.
It is seldom worth keeping. There is generally no good reason to learn things that you really don't need to know.
Practice "selective ignorance." Regularly evaluate your online sources critically, and discard those costing you more than they are worth.
Concentrate on those giving the best returns. Adjust the frequency with which you visit selected services to match their usefulness.
What used to be daily visits, may have to be downgraded to once per week or month.
Consider replacing daily news monitoring by clipping services. Plan 'overview' and 'details' with different frequencies. 'Overview' refers to online trips to get an impression of what generally goes on.
An example: My script system is set for automatic visits to the CompuServe Toshiba forum.
Whenever I visit, it 'digs out' unread messages based on key words on the item's subject line. During 1991, it searched for these strings: '5100', T2000', and '425'.
Once, This gave the following message to read: #: 29550 S6/Hi-Power Notebooks 05-Oct-91 17:27:30 Sb: #T2000SX Recharger Fm: Steve Kitahata 75166,1741 To: All I tried to order the battery recharger for my T2000SX from Jade Computer last weekend.
The sales rep said it would take about a week, so I called today to check up on it.
He told me that I could only buy the recharger with the car adapter as a bundled set for $260.
They had both advertised in their flyer as separate items, which they should be.
Has anyone heard of this? Does anyone know of any sources that have the battery recharger available?
Any help would be appreciated.
This is done by requesting a list of subjects being discussed.
If I use Stacker and want contact with other users, I can request message number 29581 and the subsequent reply (1 reply).
That should give me some email addresses. | Several advanced communication programs and offline readers | | have built-in quick scan features.
Therefore, | | you might just as well do it. | | | | Later, when reading the captured mail, 1stReader lets you | | select messages to read from a list of subjects.
This is your personal infrastructure of electronic information.
Now, you must maintain and cultivate it. Store incoming information -------------------------- Chances are that you will retrieve more information than you can read.
Sometimes it takes weeks for me to get up to date with my own readings. If you visit several online services, consider storing the data in files with different names.
Use part of the file name to show the source of this information. If visiting a service regularly, consider using the date as part of the file names.
This will make it easier to select, read and search them in a useful sequence. | Example: Say you're regularly visiting TWICS in Tokyo.
What you | | download on November 10, you may store in a file named | | | | TW1110.TMP | | | | My scripts do this automatically.
On some services, they also | | split retrieved data into URGENT and MAY BE READ LATER files. | | Private mail from TWICS is stored in NB1110.TMP.
Often, I use the year, or a month/year code in the file name extension.
For example, the file DIALOG.93 contains information from DIALOG collected during 1993. Postprocessing the data ------------------------ The data capture is completed, and the retrieved data is stored on the hard disk in more or several files.
Your next task is to * Read the received texts, * Cut and paste selected parts to archive or work files, * Prepare responses to your electronic mail.
This may include quoting part of the incoming messages in your replies. * Finally, delete all temporary files. Many advanced programs have these features built in. If not, you may use your favorite word processor, or something else.
There are many alternatives. LIST is my favorite MS-DOS shareware file viewer program.
It can be downloaded from most bulletin boards.
A list of file names will appear on | | your screen.
Press S to sort the list, and then D to have them | | sorted by creation date.
The newest files are at the bottom of | | the list. | | Move the cursor (using the Arrow keys) to the input file | | that you want to read and press Enter.
Mark the text with ALT-M commands | | (keep the ALT key pressed down, while pressing M), and then | | ALT-D.
LIST will ask you for a file name.
You enter TWICS.93, | | and the text is appended to what is already there. | | This method allows you quickly to mark and append parts | | of your input file to various archive files.
Press ESC to | | return to the file list when through, then press D.
LIST asks | | if you really want to delete the file.
Press Y, and TW1110.TMP | | is gone. | | LIST lets you find information stored in your archives | | (string search).
What you find can be marked and copied to a | | work file.
It can also be set to invoke an editor or a word | | processor for the selected file. | Reuse of data on your hard disk ------------------------------- Over time your personal archives will grow in size.
You begin to experience the benefits of having all this information on your hard disk. Yesterday's news is today's history, and may be used in many interesting ways. One business executive regularly monitors key technologies, customers, competitors, and suppliers.
He does it by tapping sources like KOMPASS, Associated Press, and Reuters.
Interesting bits of information are regularly stored on his disk. Tomorrow, there is an important meeting with a major customer. First, a quick search through the personal customer database to be reminded of important events since the last meeting.
An unfamiliar person is also going to be present.
Maybe there is some background information, for example about a recent promotion. Then, a quick check on major competitors.
Maybe they are up to something that he needs to know about. With efficient tools for searching your hard disk, finding information takes only a few seconds.
If you are still left with open questions, go online to complement. On MS-DOS computers, you can search the files with WordPerfect, LIST, the DOS utility FIND, and a long list of other programs.
I prefer programs that let me search for more than one word at the time, like in HYDRO AND PETROCHEMICAL AND CONTRACT, or EXXON OR MOBIL. | MY FAVORITE: My favorite search utility is LOOKFOR.
It can | | be downloaded from many bulletin boards.
The MS-DOS program | | is small, fast, and is superior for searches in DOS text files.| | Store your finds in work files, or print them out on paper. | | LOOKFOR is not an indexing program.
It is ready to search | | anywhere, anytime. | Discipline and organization is required to get the most out of your file archives.
You must decide what to do with each piece of information: Should it be printed out and be read in front of the fireplace this evening, or should it be circulated?
Should it be stored on your hard disk, or be refined before storage? Use standard file names that are easy to remember.
Therefore, finish handling your capture file while you read it on your screen: Send the pieces to their final destination.
Make immediate transfers to your TO-DO files.
Give the original file a name that makes it easier to move later.
Have a procedure that prevents duplication of effort. Desinformation, deception and errors ------------------------------------ Always use several sources of information.
Some people write to lead you astray.
The online world exposed some interesting incidents that came out of the former Soviet Union before the attempted coup in 1991. Desinformation hurts everybody and comes from all sides.
Even professional news agencies, like Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse, regularly stumble. Most news is written by journalists reporting what they have seen, read or heard.
Their interpretation of the situation may be wrong.
Supplement online news with what knowledgeable people say (by email or in conferences), when knowing the facts is important. Another point: Errors will occasionally be discovered and reported by the news sources, but always after the fact.
Always store these reports in your archives, and make it a rule to search to the end when looking for something.
One page of text (size A-4) holds around 2200 characters. A typical news story is one to two pages of text. | Users watching the 'taximeter' can use online services at a | | very low cost.
For many, global communication is almost free.| Reading exactly the same news through another network or service, may cost you 300 percent more.
Through yet another online service, the cost may double again. A full issue of the NewsBytes newsletter is around 150,000 characters, or 68 pages of text.
Retrieving it from a local BBS typically costs me around 29 cents.
Retrieving the full text from CompuServe would cost me over 500 percent more. Using NewsNet for the job, at 2400 bps through Datapak, would increase my current cost by more than US$30.00. The time of day may be important.
Some services have different rates for access during the day, the evening, and the weekend. Use your calculator often. When you pay by the minute -------------------------- When using bulletin boards, phone charges are often the only cost items.
Some boards require a subscription fee for full access to the system.
Still, it is easy to calculate the costs of your calls. Divide the subscription fee by an estimated number of calls, and add to the cost of using the phone. The same applies to users of CompuServe.
Distribute the rate using an estimated number of online hours per month. Example: You pay US$30/hour to access a service during prime time.
The cost is nine cents. A given binary file (a program) is 23552 bytes large.
Using the XMODEM protocol, you can transfer it in about four minutes and thirteen seconds.
To find the cost when paying by the minute is simple.
Just calculate the cost per minute or second, and multiply by the estimated connect time. On many services, it will take a minute or two before you can start to receive text or files.
Disconnecting also takes a few seconds.
Add this to the connect time when calculating costs. Pauses and delays in the transfer can be caused by you or others, and may have a dramatic impact.
It is particularly important to take this into account when comparing alternatives using different networks. Example: Transfers to TWICS via Datapak at 9600 bps rarely gave me higher effective speeds than 100 cps.
There, I was connected through a local area network to the host computer.
The effective speed was rarely higher than 4800 bps.
Calling direct gave twice the speed. Try to measure the effective transfer speed before selecting a routing for your data.
Transfer the same amount of text through various networks. If future transfers are likely to take place at a given time of day, test at that time.
If your planned application is retrieval of programs, retrieve programs.
If you want to read news, then read news from the services that you want to compare. When a network service charging for volume (like Datapak) will also be part of a comparison, measuring volume is particularly important.
Do not assume that you know the answer in advance. | NOTE: Always calculate the cost based on a fixed volume, like | | for the transfer of 1000 characters.
This is particularly | | important when you need to use different transfer speeds to | | access competing services. | Network load varies considerably throughout the day depending on the number of simultaneous users, and their applications.
This also applies to online services.
The load is normally lowest, when the bulk of the users are asleep, and during weekends.
They increase the volume of transferred text, and lower effective speed. * Get the information and disconnect.
It is expensive - and usually unnecessary - to read captured text while online. Log off to read.
Call back for more to read, disconnect, and then call back again. * Learn how to write your mail offline, and send the letters "in a batch" to your mailbox.
Your messages will often have fewer typing errors, be better thought out, and the cost will be considerably lower. * Consider automating your communication (see Chapter 16). I use Bergen By Byte this way.
A while ago, it gave me the following progress report: "Time on: 17 hrs 43 min, today 0 hrs 0 min, total 827 times.
In average, I spend around 1.3 minutes per call.
Yesterday, I was connected for 2:48 minutes.
The result was 106 kilobytes' worth of conference mail. Modem speed and cost -------------------- 2400 bps is a sensible modem speed for some applications, and used to be a good starting point for new onliners.
If doing things faster is more important than keeping costs down, then it is a wise investment. This is the case for me.
Besides, often it is definitely cheaper. Your applications have a considerable impact on your costs.
When using such services, automatic communication becomes less useful.
Rather than connecting, getting a piece of information, disconnecting, and then going back for more, you may find it cost efficient to review menus and results while online. When paying for volume, the online service's menus become luxury items.
Using quick commands for navigating is cheaper. Your comparisons will never be accurate when comparing with services charging for connect time.
Use these figures to calculate the cost of the call. | One data 'packet' or segment contains up to 64 characters. | | Think of it as a measure of the number of lines.
Each line can | | have a maximum of 64 characters.
All we know is that | | 537 + 75 segments were transferred, and that 612 segments may | | contain up to 39,168 characters. | When calculating the cost of a direct call, just the number of minutes counts.
Use the time reported by the online service, and not your stop watch.
This will reduce the average effective speed.
Second, because it lets you do the job faster and safer. We all have different needs --------------------------- Automation will never be the same for everybody.
Time is better spent reading, digesting, and using, rather than on stupid technical retrieval work.
Computers can do that. To others again, automation is a question of being able to use the online resource at all.
The mind is full of other things right now. | When using a system for automatic communication, you do not | | have to learn and remember online commands.
You will probably never regret time spent on learning how to use these features.
At a minimum, you should be able to have your system log on to a service automatically. Autologon spares you the task of remembering your user name and password.
Besides, most people are only able to use the keyboard at a low speed.
They easily get frustrated by having to correct typing errors. Auto-logon with Procomm ----------------------- Procomm is one of the most popular communications program in use today (see appendix 2).
Press a key to start the appropriate script file for access to a service. The following is a simple PROCOMM script file.
It can be used to access my bulletin board in Norway.
It assumes that your name is Jens Mikkelsen, and that the secret password is FOXCROOK4.
You probably understand a lot already.
Here is the explanation: * the ";" character at the beginning of a line identifies it as a comment line.
Procomm is to ignore it.
We use such lines for notes. * WAITFOR "our FIRST Name? " has Procomm wait for the text string "our FIRST NAME?" from my BBS.
In WAITFOR commands, we use part of the text that is displayed on our screen once the scrolling stops. Make sure that the search term is unique.
It must not appear elsewhere in the text coming from the host computer.
If it does, your name and password may be sent too early. You can call the script HORROR.CMD, and attach it to the entry for my board in your Procomm phone directory.
When you call it the next time, Procomm will execute the commands in the file and "turn the keyboard over to you" when done. Macros in Procomm ----------------- Above, we used a script to log on automatically to a service.
When Procomm gives us access to the keyboard again, we must continue manually. What we want to do online varies.
Sometimes, we want to read new messages in conferences.
In other cases, the purpose is to check new programs in the file library.
If we find programs of interest, we may want to download them. Shorthand macros can help you do this faster and safer.
For example, one macro can take you quickly to a conference for new messages.
It has many of the same macro capabilities that Procomm has. With PC-TALK, I did autologon to NewsNet.
Macro number one sent commands that gave me the contents of various newsletters.
Macro #2 picked up the contents in another group.
Macro #3 picked up stories from my mailbox, and macro #4 logged me off the service.
My mission was completed by pressing four or five keys. Automating the full task ------------------------ It's a long way from automated logon scripts and the use of macros to automating the whole task.
The major difference is that with full automation, you do not have to look at the screen while the script is working.
You can do other things.
I want an alphabetic list of visitors since my last visit, a sorted list of downloaded programs, and names of those calling in at 9600 bps or higher. Sometimes, the unexpected happen.
There may be noise on the line, or a sudden disconnect.
Usually, my script can solve this without manual intervention.
It is therefore allowed to work unattended most of the time. When I get to my office after breakfast, it is all done.
My communications program is set for reading and responding to today's email.
I can sit down, and immediately get to work. After having written all my replies, I say "send" to my system. For me, it's time for another cup of coffee.
I am not needed by the keyboard while my mail is being sent. This is what an automatic communications system can do.
You do it only | | once. | How to get it?
Here are some alternatives: Alternative 1: Write your own system ------------------------------------ You can write procedures for powerful script-driven programs like ProYam (from Omen Technology) and Crosstalk MK IV. I started writing scripts for ProYam over seven years ago.
The system is constantly expanded to include new services, refined to include more functions, and enhanced to become more robust. The scripts make my system work like an autopilot.
It calls online services, navigates, retrieves and sends data. Postprocessing includes automatic reformatting of retrieved data, transfers to various internal databases, statistics, usage logs, and calculation of transfer costs. Such scripts can do quite complex operations online.
For example, it can - Buy and sell stock when today's quotes are over/under given limits, - Select news stories and other types of information based on information found in menus or titles. Script writing is not for everybody.
It is complicated, and takes a lot of time.
Therefore, it is only for the specially interested. On the other hand, those going for it seldom regret.
Tailor- made communication scripts give a wonderful flexibility.
The software does not cost much, but again, it takes a lot of time! | Do not use large and complex script files before you know the | | online service well.
They are available from the IBM Communication Forum library. Enter GO XTALK on CompuServe to find advanced script files for Crosstalk Mk.4. ZCOMM and ProYam scripts for visiting my board automatically can be freely downloaded there.
They can have offline functions for reading and responding to mail.
The degree of automation varies. There are also many programs written by third parties.
TapCIS is my personal favorite. (CIM does not offer much automation!) Aladdin is for GEnie.
It automates your use of RoundTables (conferences), file areas, and mail.
Dialog users turn to Dialog- Link. Nexis News Plus (for Nexis, US$50) has pull-down menus and detailed selection of commands.
This MS-DOS program helps users set up detailed search commands before logging on to the Mead Data Central.
Your search results will be downloaded automatically. Personal Bibliographics Software, Inc. (Ann Arbor, Mich, U.S.A. Tel.: +1-313-996-1580) sells Pro-Search to Dialog and BRS users (for Macintosh and MS-DOS). Pro-Search will lead you through menus to find information on both services.
It translates your plain English search commands into the cryptic search language used by the services.
It logs on automatically, connects to these services, finds your information, and shows you the hits. Alternative 4: Offline readers ------------------------------ The alternatives above have one important weakness.
Noise on the line can prevent the "robot" from doing the job.
Still, this does not give full protection. The best is to let the online service do the navigation.
Then the service takes over.
The help menus that you read belong to your program, and not the online service.
You read and respond to mail in a reading module (ref. the term "offline reader"). Some offline readers give the caller access to more tools than is available on the online service itself.
They may have spelling checkers, multimedia support, let you use your favorite editor or word processor, and offer various storage, search, and printing options. Using offline readers is probably the easiest, cheapest, and safest way of using online services.
These "readers" are popular among bulletin board users, and some commercial services are also starting to accommodate them. There are many offline reader programs.
The most advanced take over completely upon logon, and manage transfers of commands and compressed information files to and from the host. (Example: Binkley Term on FidoNet) Global Link is an offline reader for EcoNet.
These are used with scripts written for various communication programs.
Some of them have built in communications (and script) modules. EZReader from Thumper Technologies (P.O.
Box 471346, Tulsa, OK 74147-1346, U.S.A.) lets users retrieve mail from several online systems using transfer formats such as QWK, PCBoard capture files, ProDoor ZIPM files, XRS, MCI Mail, and others.
Cost: US$49 (1992). 1stReader from Sparkware (Post Office Box 386, Hendersonville, Tennessee 37077, U.S.A.) is my personal favorite for accessing Qmail based online systems. | Note: Some offline readers contain all the features required | | for fully automated communications.
Some bulletin boards allow | | up- and downloading to start right after CONNECT. | | Off-Line Xpress, an offline mail reader for QWK (Qwikmail) | | packets, does not contain a communications module.
It just does | | pre- and postprocessing of mail packets. | | You can use the Off-Line Xpress as one element in a larger | | automated system.
It lets you compose replies, set search | | commands, subscriptions to services, add and drop conferences, | | and enter download commands offline. | Automatic automation -------------------- We have explained how to write scripts with Procomm.
However, there are simpler and quicker ways.
Many communication programs can make scripts automatically using a learning function.
This is how I made a script for accessing Semaforum BBS using ZCOMM: ZCOMM asked for a phone number.
It asked for speed, and I entered 2400 bps.
Next, I had to choose one of the following: (1) System uses IBM PC (ANSI) line drawing (2) 7 bits even parity (3) 8 bits no parity My choice was 1. ZCOMM dialed the number.
When the connection was established, I entered my name and password, navigated to the message section, read new messages, browsed new files in the library, and entered G for Goodbye.
This was the "tour" that I wanted to automate. When disconnected, I pressed the F1 key.
This prompted the learning process based on a record of the online tour.
The log described everything that had happened in detail, including my pauses to think.
Now I was prompted by the following question: 'newscr.t' exists.
Then: Do you want this script file as a new entry in your telephone directory (y/n)? I entered "y," and named it "semaforum.
I entered call semaforum.newscr.t at the ZCOMM command line, hit the Enter key, and off it went. ZCOMM called the BBS and repeated everything - at far higher speed than I had done it manually.
It went on-hook as planned when done. Limitations ----------- Auto-learn programs can create a script file that let you "drive the same route.
For some applications this is enough.
For others, it's just part of the way.
You have to refine the script manually to get what you want. Example: If you call my bulletin board with an auto-learned script made yesterday, chances are that everything works well.
If you call twice on the same day, however, you're in for a surprise.
The board greets you differently on your second visit.
You will not get the menu of available bulletins.
It will take you directly to the system's main menu.
Your script must take this into account. On most online services, many things can happen at each "junction of your road.
At one point in one of my scripts, up to twenty things may happen.
Each event needs its own "routing." Twenty possible events are an extreme, but three to four possibilities at each system prompt is not unusual.
Personally, I think that it is a dreadful way of receiving the news." MIT's Media Laboratory had developed a new type of electronic newspaper.
It could convert them to speech, so that the "reader" could listen to the news in the car or the shower. In a tailor-made electronic newspaper, personal news makes big headlines.
If you are off for San Francisco tomorrow, the weather forecasts for this city is front page news.
Email from your son will also get a prominent place. "What counts in my newspaper is what I consider newsworthy," said Negroponte. He claimed that the personal newspaper is a way of getting a grip on the information explosion.
We cannot do it the old way anymore.
We need other agents that can do prereading for us.
In this case, the computer happens to be our agent." The technology is already here.
Anyone can design similar papers using powerful communication programs with extensive script features.
I have tried. My test edition of The Saltrod Daily News did not convert news to sound.
It did not look like a newspaper page on my screen.
Not because it was impossible.
I simply did not feel these 'extras' worth the effort. My personal interest profile was taken care of by my scripts. If I wanted news, the "news processor" went to work and "printed" a new edition.
Page 3" had stories about telecommunications, mainly collected from NewsNet's newsletters.
Page 4" had stories about personal computer applications. As the cost of communicating and using online services continues to decrease, many people will be able to do the same.
This is where we are heading. Some people say it is too difficult to read news on a computer screen.
Maybe so, but pay attention to what is happening in notebook computers.
This paragraph was written on a small PC by the fireplace in my living room.
Pay attention, as we are moving fast in that direction. Radio is one of the supporting technologies.
They call it "live news processing.
It also maintains a full-text database of the most recent 250,000 stories on the user's server for quick searching. Packet radio ------------ A global amateur radio network allows users to modem around the world, and even in outer space.
Its users never get a telephone bill. There are over 700 packet radio based bulletin boards (PBBS). They are interconnected by short wave radio, VHF, UHF, and satellite links.
This will give you a radio (VHR tranceiver), antenna, cable for connecting the antenna to the radio, and a controller (TNC - Terminal Node Controller). Most PBBS systems are connected to a network of packet radio based boards.
Today, the emphasis is on Africa. VITA's "space mailbox" passes over each single point of the earth twice every 25 hours at an altitude of 800 kilometers.
When the satellite is over a ground station, the station sends files and messages for storage in the satellite's computer memory and receives incoming mail.
The cost of ground station operation is based on solar energy batteries, and therefore relatively cheap. To learn more about VITA's projects, subscribe to their mailing list by email to LISTSERV@AUVM.BITNET.
Use the command SUB DEVEL-L <First-name Last-name>. For more general information about packet radio, check out HamNet on CompuServe, and especially its library 9.
Retrieve the file 'packet_radio' (Packet radio in earth and space environments for relief and development) from GNET's archive (see chapter 7). ILINK has an HAMRADIO conference.
There is a packet radio mailing list at PACKET-RADIO@WSMR-SIMTEL20.ARMY.MIL (write PACKET- RADIO-REQUEST@@WSMR-SIMTEL20.ARMY.MIL to subscribe). Usenet has rec.radio.amateur.packet (Discussion about packet radio setups), and various other rec.radio conferences.
There is HAM_TECH on FidoNet, and Ham Radio under Science on EXEC-PC. The American Radio Relay League (AARL) operates an Internet information service called the ARRL Information Server.
The incident has changed the global email scene fundamentally. One thing seems reasonably certain: that the Internet will grow.
Today, such modems can be bought at prices lower than US$200.
In many countries, 14,400 bits/s modems are already the preferred choice. Wild dreams get real -------------------- In the future, we will be able to do several things simultaneously on the same telephone line.
This is what the promised land of ISDN (Integrated Service Digital Networks) is supposed to give us. Some users already have this capability.
They write and talk on the same line using pictures, music, video, fax, voice and data. ISDN is supposed to let us use services that are not generally available today.
With the technical advances in the art of transferring pictures, some of these may grow to become tiny online "television stations." These wild ideas are already here, but it will take time before they are generally available.
New networks need to be in place.
New and more powerful communications equipment has to be provided. Farther down the road, we can see the contours of speech-based electronic conferences with automatic translation to and from the participants' languages.
Entries will be stored as text in a form that allows for advanced online searching.
We may have a choice between the following: * To use voice when entering messages, rather than entering them through the keyboard.
Potentially, we will be able to find and retrieve information from anywhere on the global grid of connected systems. Bulletin boards have commenced to offer grassroots features modeled after telnet and ftp.
Many services convert to subscription prices, a fixed price by the month, quarter or year. Other services, among them some major database services, move toward a scheme where users only pay for what they get (no cure, no pay).
MCI Mail was one of the first.
There, you only pay when you send or read mail.
On CompuServe's IQuest, you pay a fixed price for a fixed set of search results. Cheaper transfers of data ------------------------- Privatization of the national telephone monopolies has given us more alternatives.
Our major problem is how to use what we have access to. This is especially true on the Internet.
Expect future personal information agents, called "knowbots," which will scan databases all over the online world for specific information at a user's bidding.
When you get information back, it will not just be in the normal chronological order.
It will be ranked by what seems to be closest to the query. Sources for future studies -------------------------- It seems appropriate to end this chapter with some online services focusing on the future: Newsbytes has a section called Trends.
The topic is computers and communications.
ECHO has the free database Trend, the online edition of the Trend Monitor magazine.
It contains short stories about the development within electronics and computers (log on to ECHO using the password TREND). Usenet has the newsgroup clari.news.trends (Surveys and trends).
Why not complement what you find here by monitoring trends in associated areas (like music), to follow the development from different perspectives?
The music forum RockNet on CompuServe has a section called Trends. CompuServe's Education Forum has the section Future Talk.
What educators think about the future of online services (and education) is always interesting.
The Well, based just outside Silicon Valley in the United States, has The Future conference. UUCP has info-futures.
Addresses and access numbers are constantly changed.
Only one thing is certain.
Some of the details below will be outdated, when you read this. Affaersdata i Stockholm AB ------------------------- P.O.
Box 3188, S-103 63 Stockholm, Sweden.
Tel.: + 46 8 736 59 19. America Online -------------- has the CNN Newsroom (Turner Educational Services), The Washington Post, the National Geographic magazine, PC World and Macworld.
AOL has tailor-made graphical user interfaces for Apple, Macintosh, and PC compatible computers, and about 300.000 users (in June 1993). Sending and receiving Internet mail is possible. Contact: America Online, 8619 Westwood Center Dr., Vienna, VA 22182-2285, USA.
Phone: +1-703-448-8700. APC --- The Association for Progressive Communications (APC) is a worldwide partnership of member networks for peace and environmental users with host computers in several countries: Alternex (Brazil).
Email: apoyo@chasque.apc.org ComLink e.V (Germany).
Email: support@gn.apc.org Institute for Global Communications (U.S.A.), includes EcoNet, PeaceNet, ConflictNet, LaborNet. Email: support@igc.apc.org Nicarao - CRIES (Nicaragua).
Email: support@web.apc.org While all these services are fee based, they bring a wealth of information on environmental preservation, peace (incl.
Fax: +55-21-286-0541. For information about the PeaceNet World News Service, which delivers news digests directly to your email box, send a request to pwn@igc.apc.org. Bergen By Byte -------------- Norwegian online service with conferences and many files.
Modem tel.: +47 05 323781.
PDN (Datapak) address: 0 2422 450134.
Telnet: oscar.bbb.no (192.124.156.38). English-language interface available.
Address: 710 South Atlantic, Dillon, Montana 59725, U.S.A. BITNET ------ "Because It's Time NETwork" started in 1981 as a small network for IBM computers in New York, U.S.A.
Today, BITNET encompasses 3,284 host computers by academic and research institutions all over the world.
It has around 243,016 users (source: Matrix News 1993) All connected hosts form a worldwide network using the NJE (Network Job Entry) protocols and with a single list of nodes. There is no single worldwide BITNET administration.
Several national or regional bodies administer the network. The European part of BITNET is called EARN (European Academic Research Network), while the Canadian is called NetNorth.
In Japan the name is AsiaNet.
It is common for Internet users to refer to BITNET addresses like this: NOTRBCAT@INDYCMS.BITNET . To send email from the Internet to BITNET, it has to be sent through special gateway computers.
On many systems, this is taken care of automatically.
You type NOTRBCAT@INDYCMS.BITNET, and your mailbox system does the rest. On some systems, the user must give routing information in the BITNET address.
For example, North American mail to BITNET can be sent through the gateway center CUNYVM.CUNY.EDU .
To make mail to NOTRBCAT go through this gateway, its mail address must be changed as follows: NOTRBCAT%INDYCMS.BITNET@CUNYVM.CUNY.EDU Explanation: The @ in the initial address is replaced with % .
Then add the gateway routing: ".BITNET@CUNYVM.CUNY.EDU". If you must use a gateway in your address, always select one close to where you live.
Ask your local postmaster for the correct addressing in your case. BITNET has many conferences.
We call them discussion lists or mailing lists.
The lists are usually administered by a computer program called LISTSERV.
The dialog is based on redistribution of ordinary email by mailing lists.
Subscribe to NEW-LIST by email to LISTSERV@NDSUVM1.BITNET.
Use the following command: SUB NEW-LIST Your-first-name Your-last-name This is how we usually subscribe to discussion lists.
To some extent, it mirrors what you can read on paper.
BIX offers global Internet email, telnet and ftp, multiple conferences.
In 1992, the service had about 50,000 members. The NUA address is 0310600157878.
On Internet, telnet x25.bix.com .
At the Username: prompt, enter BIX as a user name.
At the second Username: prompt, enter NEW if you don't already have an account on the service. You can sign up for the service, and play during your first visit to the service.
Read BYTE for more information, or write to General Videotex Corporation, 1030 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, MA 02138, USA.
Phone: +1-617-354-4137. BRS --- Bibliographic Retrieval Services is owned by InfoPro Technologies (see below).
BRS/After Dark is a service for PC users.
It can be accessed during evenings and weekends at attractive rates. InfoPro offers connection through their own network in Europe, and through the Internet.
BRS contains about 120 databases within research, business, news, and science.
The service's strengths are medicine and health. Membership in BRS costs US$80 per year, plus hourly database usage charges.
It is also available through CompuServe (at a different price). Contact in Europe: BRS Information Technologies, Achilles House, Western Avenue, London W3 OUA, England.
In North America: InfoPro Technologies.
Tel.: +1-703-442-0900. Telnet: brs.com (US$6/hr). Canada Remote Systems --------------------- is North America's largest bulletin board system (1992).
Besides email, CGNET provides news clipping services, airline reservation information, and database search. (See Dialcom) Contact: CGNET Services International, 1024 Hamilton Court, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA.
Telephone: +1-415-325-3061. Fax: 1-415-325-2313 Telex: 4900005788 (CGN UI) . CIX (England) ------------- British online-service available by telnet, through PDN services and by direct dial.
Telnet cix.compulink.co.uk. Compulink Information eXchange Ltd. claims to be Europe's largest conferencing system.
Sign-up fee (1993): GBP 25.00.
Off-peak connect rate GBP 2.40.
Peak rate is 3.60 per hour. The service has full Internet access, and email exchange with CompuServe and Dialcom.
CIX has many conferences, ISDN access, Usenet News, telnet and ftp. Contact: The Compulink Information Exchange Ltd., The Sanctuary Oakhill Grove, Surbiton, Surrey KT6 6DU, England.
Read Chapter 9 for more information.
Single-user (individual) prices available. Clarinet Communications Corp., 124 King St. North, Waterloo, Ontario N2J 2X8, Canada.
Email: info@clarinet.com . Commercial Mail Relay Service (CMR) ----------------------------------- This service is not available anymore.
They used to be available on this address: Intermail-Request@Intermail.ISI.EDU CompuServe ---------- has about 1.3 million users (August 93) all over the world, over 1,500 databases, 200 forums, 500 newspapers, online shopping from more than 100 shops and entertainment.
It's like a large electronic supermarket. You can access the service though local access numbers in over 100 countries, through Packet Switching Services, and outdial services.
The international NUA address is 0313299999997. A list of available forums can be retrieved from the IBM Communication Forum.
It has TASS in the World Reporter database), and Questel (France).
Sometimes, it is cheaper to use these services on CompuServe, than by a call to these services directly. The connect charge for CompuServe's Alternative Pricing Plan is US$12.80/hour at 1200 and 2400 bps.
9600 bps costs US$22.80/hour. Monthly subscription US$2.50.
Using the Executive News Service (clipping service) costs an extra US$15/hour. An optional flat-rate pricing plan (the Standard Pricing plan) is available for US$8.95 per month.
These differ a lot by country.
For example, access through European CompuServe nodes has no communication surcharges during non-prime time (19:00-8:00 local time). CompuServe can be accessed by telnet to hermes.merit.edu, or 35.1.48.150.
Host: CompuServe. CompuServe Information Services Inc., POB 20212, 5000 Arlington Centre Blvd., Columbus, Ohio 43220, U.S.A. In Europe, call voice: +49-89-66550-111, fax: +49-89-66 550-255 or write to CompuServe, Jahnstrasse 2, D-8025 Unterhaching b., Munich, Germany.
To contact CompuServe Africa, call (012) 841-2530 in South Africa, or (+27)(12) 841-2530 for everywhere else. Cosine ------ COSINE (Cooperation for Open Systems Interconnection Networking in Europe) is a European Common Market "Eureka" project.
It works to establish a communications network infrastructure for scientific and industrial research institutes all over Europe. IXI is the international packet data network on which the COSINE project is based.
It has lists of sources of information. Internet users can access CONCISE through Telnet.
Connect either to concise.ixi.ch (130.59.2.16) or concise.funet.fi (128.214.6.181).
See description in Chapter 13.
Contact: DA Systems, Inc., 1503 E.
Campbell Ave., Campbell, CA 95008, U.S.A. DataArkiv --------- Major Scandinavian online service based in Sweden.
Contact: DataArkiv, Box 1502, 171 29 Solna, Sweden.
Fax: +46 8 828 296. Tel.: +46 8 705 13 11. Data-Star --------- Formerly owned by Radio-Suisse in Switzerland, Data-Star is now owned by Knight-Ridder (U.S.A.).
18, Box 5278, S-402 25 Gothenburg, Sweden.
Tel.: +46 31 83 59 75. Delphi ------ has full access to Internet.
Write to: General Videotex Corp., 1030 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, MA 02138, USA. Dialcom ------- is owned by British Telecom and is a network of data centers in many countries.
The British service Telecom-Gold is a subsidiary of Dialcom UK.
In North America, contact BT North America at tel.: +1-408-922- 7543.
In Europe, contact British Telecom. CGNET can be reached through the Internet.
Many databases are also available on CD-ROM. In Europe, contact DIALOG Europe, P O Box 188, Oxford OX1 5AX, England.
You can telnet to DIALOG.COM (192.132.3.254, US$ 3/hour in 1992). Down Jones News/Retrieval ------------------------- focuses on news for finance and business.
DJN/R is also accessible through a gateway from MCI Mail. You can telnet to djnr.dowjones.com .
At the WHAT SERVICE PLEASE prompt, enter DJNR and press Enter.
An ENTER PASSWORD prompt will appear.
Here, enter your normal DJNS account password. ECHO ---- European Commission Host Organization is accessible via CONCISE. Telnet either to concise.ixi.ch (130.59.2.16) or concise.funet.fi (128.214.6.181).
The NUA address is 0270448112.
You can also telnet to echo.lu .
Login as echotest or echo. ECHO's I'M GUIDE is a free database providing information about online services within the European Common Market.
Fax: +352 34 98 1234. Exec-PC Network BBS ------------------- is based in Milwaukee (Wisconsin, U.S.A.).
In August 1991, it had 238 incoming phone lines, 9 gigabytes of disk capacity, more than 100 new programs/day, 300,000 programs available for downloading (including the complete selection from PC-SIG California) and more than 130,000 active messages in its conferences.
You can sign on while online. Unregistered users get thirty minutes per day free. FidoNet ------- was founded in 1984 for automatic transfers of files from one place to the other at night, when the telephone rates are low.
FidoNet is one of the most widespread networks in the world.
It consists mainly of personal computers (IBM/Amiga/Macintosh...). FidoNet systems exchange documents by using a modem and calling another FidoNet system.
Communication can be either direct to the destination system (calling long distance) or by routing a message to a local system. Each computer connected to FidoNet is called a node.
There are nodes in around 70 countries.
In June 1993, the net had 24,800 nodes throughout the world (source: FidoNet nodelist).
A typical FidoNet Echomail conference gets 50 to 100 messages each day.
Any connected BBS may carry 50, 100, or more echomail conferences. Net Mail is the term for storing and delivering mail.
FidoNet users can send and receive mail through the Internet. The list of member bulletin boards is called the Nodelist.
It can be retrieved from most boards.
Each node has one line on this list, like in this example: ,10,Home_of_PCQ,Warszawa,Jan_Stozek,48-22-410374,9600,V32,MNP,XA The commas are field separators.
Box 41143, St. Louis, MO 63141, U.S.A.
Based in San Francisco (U.S.A.) it offers free and anonymous access for everybody. Call +1-415-863-9697.
CD-ROM. Contact FT Information Services at tel.: +44-71-873-3000. GEnie ----- General Electric Network for Information Exchange is GE's Consumer Information Service.
GEnie gives access to many databases and other information services.
It has around 350,000 users (1992). The basic rate is US$4.95/month plus connect charges.
The surcharge is US$18/hour between 08:00 and 18:00, and US$6.00/hour for some services, like email, downloading of software, "chat," conferences, and multi-user games.
Access to Internet email is available as a surcharged add-on service. (Addressing format: userid@GEnie.GEis.com) For information call +1-301-340-4492.
GE Information Services, 401 N.
Washington St., Rockville, MD 20850, U.S.A. GE Information Service Co. (GEIS) --------------------------------- Online service operated by General Electric.
Available in over 32 countries.
GEIS' QUIK-COMM service integrates multinational business communications for public and private mail systems.
Its services include Telex Access; and QUIK-COMM to FAX, which allows users to send messages from their workstations to fax machines throughout the world.
Contact: tel. +1-301-340-4485 GENIOS ------ German online service (tel.: +49 69 920 19 101).
Email, fax, telex, public conferences. For nonprofit, nongovernmental organizations, basic GlasNet service fees are 350 rubles/month after a one-time registration fee of 1000 rubles.
This does not include faxes or telexes. (1992) Write to: GlasNet, Ulitsa Yaroslavskaya 8, Korpus 3 Room 111, 129164 Moscow, Russia.
Chapter 13). Contact: i-Com, 4 Rue de Geneve B33, 1140 Brussels, Belgium.
All participating hosts are using the protocol TCP/IP. There are around 1.3 million host computers with IP addresses (March 1992.
The number of users is estimated to more than ten million people.
They believe it is possible to reach around 50 million mailboxes by email through the Internet. Several commercial companies offer full Internet services. Among these are Alternet (operated by UUNET) and PCI (operated by Performance Systems, Inc.).
The UK Internet Consortium offers similar services in Great Britain. INTERNET gives users access to the ftp and telnet commands.
Ftp gives them interactive access to remote computers for transferring files.
Telnet gives access to a remote service for interactive dialog. The Interest Groups List of Lists is a directory of conferences available by ftp from ftp.nisc.sri.com (192.33.33.53).
Log in to this host as user "anonymous.
English available as an option. "Internet Services Frequently Asked Questions and Answers" can be retrieved by email from mail-server@rtfm.mit.edu .
Tel.: 0527- 64295 (in England). Kompass Online and Kompass Europe -------------------------------- These databases are available through many services, including Affaersdata in Sweden and Dialog.
Contact: (voice) +47 22 64 05 75. InfoPro Technologies -------------------- Previously Maxwell Online.
InfoPro's services include BRS Online and Orbit Online.
Tel.: +1-703-442-0900. Maxwell Online -------------- See InfoPro Technologies. MCI Mail -------- MCI Mail, Box 1001, 1900 M St. NW, Washington, DC 20036, U.S.A. Mead Data Central ----------------- operates the Nexis and Lexis services.
Contact: Mead Data Central International, International House, 1, St. Katharine's Way, London E1 9UN, England. TELNET lexis.meaddata.com or 192.73.216.20 or 192.73.216.21 . Terminal type = vt100a.
Note: If characters do not echo back, set your terminal to "local" echo. MetaNet ------- Contact: Metasystems Design Group, 2000 North 15th Street, Suite 103, Arlington, VA 22201, U.S.A.
Tel.: +1-703-243-6622. MIX --- A Scandinavian bulletin board network exchanging conferences.
For information, call Mike's BBS in Norway at the following numbers: +47-22-416588, +47-22-410403 and +47-22-337320. Minitel ------- French videotex service, which is being marketed all over the world.
Tel.: +1- 914-359-4546. NEC PC-VAN ---------- Japan's largest online service measured both in number of users and geographical presence.
Your communications system must be able to display Japanese characters to use the service. Netnews ------- See Usenet. NewsNet ------- The world's leading vendor of full-text business and professional newsletters online.
Offers access to over 700 newsletters and news services within 30 industry classification groups (1993).
Includes the major international news wires. You can read individual newsletter issues, and search back issues or individual newsletters or publications within an industry classification.
NewsNet's clipping service is called NewsFlash. Enter PRICES at the main command prompt for an alphabetic listing of all available services. Contact: NewsNet, 945 Haverford Rd., Bryn Mawr, PA 19010, U.S.A. NIFTY-Serve ----------- is Japan's number 2 online service.
It had 250,000 subscribers in January 1992.
US$15 is returned to the user as free time).
Non-prime time access costs US$10.70/hour at 300 to 2400 bps.
Otherwise, the rate is US$23.50.
The service is available through PDN and outdial services. (1992) Contact: NWI, 333 East River Drive, Commerce Center One, East Hartford, CT 06108, U.S.A.
Tel.: +1-203-289-6585. CompuServe users can access NWI's PARTICIPATE conferences through a gateway. OCLC ---- is a nonprofit computer library service and research organization whose computer network and products link more than 15,000 libraries in 47 countries and territories.
It serves all types of libraries, including public, academic, special, corporate, law, and medical libraries.
Contact: OCLC, 6565 Fratz Rd., Dublin, OH, U.S.A.
Tel.: +1-614-764-6000. Orbit ----- is owned by InfoPro Technologies (formerly Maxwell Online and Pergamon Orbit Infoline Inc.).
It offers more than 100 science, technical and patent research, and company information databases. Contact in North America: InfoPro Technologies, 8000 West Park Drive, McClean, VA 22102, U.S.A.
Tel.: +1-703-442-0900. In Europe: ORBIT Search Service, Achilles House, Western Avenue, London W3 0UA, England.
It is a videotex service based on a special graphics display format.
The service is also available as "TTY Teletype.
NUA address: 02341 10020020. Prodigy ------- is a North American videotex service owned by IBM and Sears.
The packet sent new users contains a communication program and a Hayes-compatible 2400 bps modem.
Price: US$ 180. (early 1992) Contact: Prodigy Services Co., 445 Hamilton Ave., White Plains, NY 10601, U.S.A.
Email (through Internet): postmaster@inetgate.prodigy.com . RelayNet -------- Also called PcRelay-Net.
An international network for exchange of email and conferences between more than 8,500 bulletin boards.
The Relaynet International Message Exchange (RIME) consists of some 1,000 systems (1992). Relcom ------ means 'Russian Electronic Communications.
This company provides email, other network services, a gateway to Internet, and access to Usenet. In early 1992, RELCOM had regional nodes in 25 cities of the xUSSR connecting over 1,000 organizations or 30,000 users.
RELCOM has a gateway to IASNET. Saltrod Horror Show ------------------- Odd de Presno's BBS system.
Tel.: +47 370 31378. The Sierra Network ------------------ is one of the best things out there for online games.
The service claimed more than 20,000 subscribers in 1993.
Contact: The Sierra Network, P.O.
For information, send a message to the address LISTSERV@RPIECS.BITNET with the command 'HELP' in the first line of your text. SprintMail ---------- is a large, commercial vendor of email services.
Contact: SuperNet World Host through FidoNet at 2:203/310 (+46-300-41377) Lennart Odeberg. TCN --- is a Dialcom network.
Internet email to TCN is only possible if either the sender or recipient has registered with DASnet.
The email address would be: TCNxxx@das.net (where xxx is the TCN number). Thunderball Cave ---------------- Norwegian bulletin board connected to RelayNet.
Call +47-22- 299441 or +47-22-299442.
Offers Usenet News and Internet mail. Tocolo BBS ---------- Bulletin board for people with disabilities in Japan, or with "shintaishougaisha," which is the Japanese term.
Your communications system must be able to display Japanese characters to use the service. TRI-P ----- International outdial service.
Contact: INTEC America, Inc., 1270 Avenue of the Americas, Suite 2315, New York, NY 10020, U.S.A.
In Japan, contact Intec at 2-6-10 Sarugaku-cho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101. Fax: +81-3-3292-2929. TWICS BeeLINE ------------- English-language Japanese online service with PARTIcipate, Caucus and Usenet netnews.
Half the users are Japanese.
Others connect from U.S.A., England, Canada, Germany, France, South Africa, and Scandinavia. The NUA address is: 4406 20000524.
Direct call to +81 3 3351 7905 (14,4KB/s), or +81-3-3351-8244 (9600 bps).
At CONNECT, press ENTER a few times.
Wait about a second between keystrokes to get to the registration prompt. New users can sign on as GUEST for information.
For example, the system Oregano calls the system Basil once every two hours.
If there's mail waiting for Oregano, Basil will send it at that time.
Likewise, Oregano will at that time send any mail waiting for Basil. There are databases with connectivity information (UUCP maps), and programs (pathalias) that will help you decide the correct routing of messages.
However, many UUCP hosts are not registered in the UUCP map. EUNET is a UUCP based network in Europe.
JUNET is an equivalent network in Japan.
There are many gateway machines that exchange mail between UUCP and the Internet.
It is a service rather than a real network.
It is not an organization, and has no central authority. Usenet's newsgroups are carried by over 69,000 host computers in five continents, and has over 1,991,000 users (source: Brian Reid, 1993).
Many of these hosts have access to the Internet.
Each of these classifications is organized into groups and subgroups according to topic.
As of June 1, 1993, there were 4500 newsgroups and 2500 regional newsgroups.
Subjects include sex, and privacy. "biz" Business-related groups "clari" Newsgroups gatewayed from commercial news services and other 'official' sources. (Requires payment of a fee and execution of a licence.
More information by email to info@clarinet.com). Most Netnews hosts offer both global and local conferences.
The service has full Internet access, and can be reached by telnet to well.sf.ca.us (or 192.132.30.2). Modem tel.: +1-415-332-6106 at 1200 bps or +1-415-332-7398 at 2400 bps.
Rates: US$ 20/month plus US$ 2/hour (invoiced by the minute online - 1992). ZiffNet ------- markets its services through CompuServe (ZiffNet and ZiffNet/Mac), Prodigy, and its own online service in the U.S.A.
Their offerings include the Ziff Buyer's Market, the ZiffNet/Mac Buyer's Guide, Computer Database Plus, Magazine Database Plus, NewsBytes, and the Cobb Group Online. Contact: Ziff Communications Company, 25 First Street, Cambridge, MA 02141, U.S.A.
The most common type of microcomputer today is called MS-DOS computers (or IBM PC compatibles or IBM clones). Your computer should have enough memory for communication.
This is seldom a problem.
If this is the case, you'll know to appreciate speed and power. You do not need a hard disk.
Not having one, however, means more work, and less room for storage of all the nice things that you may want to retrieve by modem. Personally, I want as much hard disk space as I can possibly get.
When you have read the book, I guess you'll understand why. Others may want to delay the purchase of a hard disk until they can spare the money.
If you can afford it, however, do it!
It is a decision that you'll never regret. You must have a modem --------------------- Some computers are always connected to a network.
If this is your situation, then you probably have what you need already.
The rest of us need a modem. A modem is a small piece of equipment that is translating the internal, electrical signals of the computer to sound codes.
These codes can be sent over an ordinary telephone line.
You may think of it as a type of Morse alphabet. The recipient of data also needs a modem.
In his case, the sound codes will have to be translated back into their original form as digital codes.
When this is done, he can view text and pictures on the screen, and use the received data in other applications. You can buy modems on an expansion card for installation in your computer, or in a separate box.
Some of them are so compact that they fit besides your toothbrush in the toilet bag. An internal modem blocks one of your serial ports. External modems --------------- The options are many.
The modems differ on speed, features, prices - and whether they are approved for usage in your country. Some of them are connected to the phone line by cable.
Others are connected to the handset (to the talk and listen part) by two rubber cups.
We call such modems acoustic modems (or acoustic couplers). Acoustic modems are useful where connecting other modems to the telephone is difficult.
The bad news is that you'll get more noise on the line.
Such modems (and computers) are still in use in some large corporations. Most of today's online services are based on an interactive dialog between the user and the remote computer.
The user enters a command, for example a letter or a number in a menu, and the result is returned almost immediately.
One method is to use baud.
Bits per second is unambiguous.
In this book, we will use it as bps. We can estimate the number of characters per second by dividing the number of bps by ten.
1200 bps is roughly 120 cps. In 1987, 300, 1200 and 2400 bps asynchronous modems were the standard in many countries.
Around 1990, the growth in 9600 bps modems and modem with faster speeds gained momentum. Modem user manuals often give transfer speed by referring to some international classification codes.
Here are some CCITT codes with explanation: V.21 0-300 bps Still used by a small group.
Cannot full duplex communicate with the American Bell 103 standard. V.22 1200 bps Partly compatible with the American full duplex Bell 212a standard.
Sometimes it works, sometimes it fails. V.22bis 2400 bps Used all over the world.
Very full duplex common. V.23 600 & 1200 Rare protocol.
Used mainly in Europe. bps w/75 Half duplex. bps return ch. V.26ter 2400 bps Used mainly in France full duplex V.27ter 2400/4800 bps Used in Group III fax half duplex V.29 4800, 7200 and Used in gr.
III fax and in some (Ame- 9600 bps rican) modems.
2,3 and 4 (see MNP below).
For V.22, V.22bis, V.26ter and V.32. V.42bis Data compression for V.42 modems. Meant to replace MNP and LAP.
Text can be transferred three times faster than with MNP, i.e., in up to 38400 bps using a 9600 bps modem.
Very common. V.Fast Upcoming standard.
If approved by also called CCITT, it will support speeds to V.32terbo 28,800 bps for uncompressed data transmission rates over regular dial- up, voice-grade lines.
MNP splits the stream of data up into blocks before transmission.
They are checked by the other modem upon receipt.
If the contents are correct, an acknowledge message is sent back to the sending modem.
If there has been an error in the transmission, the sending modem is asked to retransmit. When using compression, files are being preprocessed before transmission to decrease their size.
The result is that the modem has to send fewer bytes, and the effect is higher speed. MNP Level 3 and up send data between two modems synchronously rather than asynchronously.
Since sending a start and stop bit with each transferred byte is no longer required, the effect is higher speed. MNP-4 or higher have automatic adjustment of block length when there is noise on the line.
If the line is good, longer blocks are sent.
The block size is decreased if the line is bad causing many retransmissions. MNP-5 has data compression.
This gives a further increase in transfer speed by from 10 to 80 percent depending on the type of data sent.
The serial port of your computer may be a limiting factor. Owners of older MS-DOS computers often have UARTs (serial port processors) in the Intel 8250 or National 16450 series.
With these in the computer, it is difficult to achieve speeds above 9600 bps without losing data. Take this into account when investing in a modem. MNP and efficiency ------------------ I call my bulletin board daily.
My personal computer is set to communicate with a V.32 modem at 19,000 bps.
When sending text, the effective transfer speed may double.
Speed will increase further if the text contains long sequences of similar characters. Text is typically compressed by up to 63 percent.
Also, it is easier for users to keep track of files sent in a library file. You rarely get speed advantages when transferring precompressed files using MNP or V.42bis.
With some modems, you must turn MNP and V.42bis compression off before retrieval of compressed files. Dumb or intelligent modem? -------------------------- Some modems are operated with switches or buttons on a panel.
They do not react to commands from your computer.
We call them dumb. You must dial numbers manually, and press a key on the modem, when you hear the tone from a remote modem.
Only when the modem is connected to the remote modem, can you ask your communications program to take over. We call those modems 'intelligent' that can react to commands from your computer.
Most of them react to commands according to the Hayes standard. Buy intelligent, Hayes-compatible modems - even when other standards may seem better.
The modem could call a number and prepare for data communication, once a connection had been set up.
If the line was busy, it could wait a while and then redial.
The message DIALTONE on one modem may be DIAL TONE on another.
Here is an example: A standard on the move ---------------------- On the Quattro SB2422 modem, 2400 bps speed without automatic speed detection is set by the command "AT&I1.
The purpose is to "configure" the modem before calling.
It sends the following: AT S0=0 +C0 S7=40 S9=4 &D2 The cryptic codes have the following meaning: AT "Attention modem.
The code "+C0" must be replaced with an "&I1".
The rest of the commands are the same. (Note: when a modem responds with "ERROR," it has usually rejected all commands sent to it!) This setup is held in the modem's memory when Procomm sends its dialing command: ATDT4737031378.
AT stands for ATtention, as above. DT stands for Dial Tone.
Here, it is used to dial the number 4737031378 using tone signaling (rather than pulse dialing). The modem cable --------------- If you have an external modem, you must connect your computer to the modem with a cable.
Some modems are sold without a cable. This cable may be called a serial cable, a modem cable, a RS232C cable, or something else.
Make sure that you buy the correct cable for your system. Make sure that the connectors at each end of the cable are correct.
Use a shielded cable to ensure minimal interference with radio and television reception. At this point, some discover that there is no place on the PC to attach the cable.
Securing the electric outlet in the wall is not enough.
In my case it's the whole job.
Most of my work is done automatically. The communications program will help you with the mechanical transportation of data in both directions.
Advanced users may find it boring. * Ability to transfer data without errors.
The program should have transfer protocols like XMODEM, Kermit, XMODEM/CRC, YMODEM and ZMODEM.
The XMODEM protocol is the most commonly used.
You need these protocols if you want to transfer compiled computer programs (e.g., .COM and .EXE files).
They are also used when transferring compressed files, graphics and music files. * Does it let you tailor it to your taste/needs?
Some programs let you attach batches of commands to function keys and keypress combinations.
For example, by having your computer call your favorite online service by pressing the F1 key. * Does it let you "scroll back" information having disappeared out of your screen?
This may be useful when you want to respond while online to an electronic mail message.
Soon it becomes a simple routine. On some computers, you just press a key, and that's it.
On others, you have to call and press, and watch, while things are happening.
When CONNECT has been established, your user identification and password are sent at the prompts for such information.
Meanwhile, you can go out to look at the moon, or sing a song. Getting started with Procomm ---------------------------- Procomm is cheap and probably the most commonly used communications program for MS-DOS computers.
It's been like this for many years, though there are many better and cheaper alternatives. An older version of the program (version 2.4.2) is still being distributed through bulletin boards all over the world.
You may give copies of this version to anyone.
Here is some of the features: Press ALT-F10 for a pull-down window text listing features and commands.
Press ALT+D to call a number, update the telephone directory, or select a script file for autologon to a service. Procomm can emulate (pretend to be) different terminal types, like IBM 3101 and DEC VT-100/VT-52.
Most services covered in this book may be well served with the setting ANSI.BBS. It let you use both dumb and intelligent Hayes-compatible modems.
If you have the latter, select numbers from the telephone directory for autologon.
If the number is busy, Procomm can call back until you can get through. You can define macros to automate your work.
You can have one keystroke send your user identification, another for your password, and a third key to send a sequence of commands.
This may take more time than expected and often seems complex for the uninitiated.
We just cannot give practical advice on the use of all of them in one short appendix.
Instead, we will use one example.
Your job is to "translate" the text into a terminology that fits your tools. Once your system is set up for communication, your first job will be to find what keys to press to get the job done.
How you use your communications program may vary considerably from our example. In general, however, it will be the same for most people doing manual communication.
Once online, the environment is the same for all users. If you plan to use automatic communications as explained in chapter 16, this chapter may not be that important.
Your program will do the job for you.
Still, take a few minutes and browse through the text.
It may enable you to handle unexpected problems better. Our example assumes that you have an MS-DOS computer.
Not because this is the best microcomputer in the world, but because there are more of them than anything else.
We assume that you have an external, intelligent Hayes-compatible modem and the communications program Procomm (version 2.4.2). In this example, your modem is tested by calling my bulletin board at +47 370 31378.
Place the modem by the computer, and plug the power supply cord (or the power adapter cord) into the AC wall socket.
Switch on the modem. Do NOT use 115-volt equipment in 250-volt sockets! Connect modem and computer using the modem cable.
There may be several optional sockets on the computer.
These are usually marked RS-232, COMMS, MODEM, or just nothing.
The connector may be of a flat 25-pins, 9 pins, or a round 8-pins type.
Use communication port number 1, 2, or whatever else is available for this purpose. If you have several options, and the socket for communication port number 1 seems free, use this.
If not, try one of the others. Next, connect the modem to the telephone line.
If in luck, the modem came with a phone cable that works with your setup.
If so, it is simple: 1.
Disconnect the phone cable from the telephone.
Insert the modular plug into the right jack on the modem.
This jack is often marked with the word LINE, with a drawing of a modular wall jack, or another understandable icon. 2.
You may be able to connect the phone to the modem using the phone cord that came with the modem.
Next step is to install the communications program.
When this is done, we will check it out. Installing the program ---------------------- Let us assume that you have received Procomm on a diskette, and that it is set up with its default configuration.
The other files have no importance here. Enter Procomm and press ENTER.
Our first task is to prepare it for communication: If you are using a monochrome display, use the command PROCOMM /B The program will greet you by a welcome text.
At the bottom of the screen, the message "CREATING SYSTEM FILES" may appear (if these have not been created yet), followed by a message from the creators of the program. Press ENTER when you have read the text.
If you can, turn the pages to "Does the computer have contact with the modem?" If you hear nothing, there are several possible causes: * The phone is not working.
Disconnect it from the modem, and connect it to the wall (using the original cable!).
If you get a dial tone now, then the phone is in order. * The cable between the modem and the wall jack may be broken, or wrongly configured.
Press ALT-P (keep the ALT key down while pressing P) to get the menu LINE SETTINGS.
Choice 9 gives 2400 bps with 8 bits word length, no parity and one stop bit.
This is a common setting.
Do this by entering (i.e., sending to the modem) the characters AT.
This is true even if it does not send any confirmation.
The modem may have been instructed not to confirm.
If you see the AT characters, read from "Does the modem have contact with the phone line?" If there is no contact between the modem and the computer, the screen will remain blank at all times.
Your problem may be the cable, your choice of modem port, or the modem setup. First, check if the modem is switched on (the power switch), and that the plugs are firmly in the jacks. Then let's check the modem.
It may have been set not to respond to your commands.
Let's try to change that.
I have seen modems get "indigestion problems" when too many commands are given to them. Try give a command to return it to its factory setting.
This command is not the same on all Hayes-compatible modems.
On most of them, you can use one of the following: AT&F, ATF or ATZ (on some modems ATZ is used to reset to the stored configuration).
Locate the correct command to use in the modem's user manual.
Then, try ATQ0E1V1 again. If you are still without success, check your choice of modem port.
If there are several communication connectors at the back of your computer, test these.
If this doesn't help, connect the modem cable to the most probable jack. Now, test the communication port for a response from the modem using another communications program setting.
Press ALT-P, select another port (choice 20 - 23), press ESC and try "AT" again (or ATQ0E1V1).
Remove all extra equipment (like a PC-fax card or a mouse), and all associated software (often represented by a line starting with "DRIVER=" in CONFIG.SYS, or a resident program driving a mouse).
Remove all resident programs from memory before testing. If you are still at the same unfortunate stage, chances are that the problem is either in the cable or the modem.
If you know others who are into data communication, visit them for help.
Bring your cable and your modem to have them tested in an environment where things work.
It is easier to isolate a problem by testing your units in sequence on your helper's system. First, the cable.
Connect it between his computer and his modem.
Test the connection to his modem with your cable as the only foreign element.
If the test is successful, your cable is OK. Next, the modem.
If the test is successful, your modem is in order.
The most probable cause of your problems is your computer's communications port. In communications, many parts have to work together.
You may have problems with more than one of them at the same time.
The rule is to test step by step to eliminate possible problems. If you get no reply from your modem, when it is connected to your friend's computer, chances are that it needs to be repaired.
Call the seller for help. A last refuge is to buy an extra communications card for your computer . . . Does your modem have contact with the phone line? ------------------------------------------------- You have contact between your computer and modem.
The modem answers "OK" as assumed.
We now have to test if there is contact with the phone line.
For example, a cable made for a telephone network in the United States, may not work in Norway.
A cable made for connection to a switchboard, may not work when connected to a domestic phone line. A standard, domestic American phone cable contains four lines. Two of these (line number 1 and 4) carry sounds.
The others are not being used.
A standard Norwegian domestic cable is set up in the same way, but here line number 1 and 3 carry sound. Changing the configuration of such cables is often simple.
Just cut the cable in two, and put the lines together correctly.
This is typically required when your modem assumes that you use it in North America, while you are in a country with different cabling. Configuring your program ------------------------ The modem answers.
The dial tone is being detected.
Procomm is installed on your hard disk.
Now, check if the program has been correctly configured. Press ALT-S to get the Setup Menu.
Select 1, Modem setup, from this menu. Choice 1, Modem init string, is a general setup command.
This command will be sent to the modem each time you start Procomm.
You are free to make is as long and powerful as you want.
Our purpose now, however, is to check if it works. Most modems do not react if one element in your setup command is wrong.
Test the init command by entering it manually. (Do not enter the "!" character.
Remember to add the "!" at the end. Press ESC to get to the main configuration menu and select 2, TERMINAL SETUP.
Check if Terminal emulation is ANSI-BBS.
Change choice 2, Duplex, to FULL.
The other factory settings are NONE, CR, CR, DEST, BS, OFF, ON, 350, OFF. Return to the SETUP MENU (press ESC).
Press "s" to save the setup to disk.
Your setting has now been stored, and Procomm is ready to be used. Dialing ------- Now, test your setup by calling your favorite online service.
We will show how to log on to my bulletin board. You can call manually by entering ATDT followed by the phone number.
The most practical method, however, is to use the built-in phone directory. Press ALT-D to get to the phone directory.
Press "R" to revise the list, and enter Saltrod Horror Show somewhere on the list.
I have it as number 2.
Answer the questions like this: Name: Saltrod Horror Show Number: 009-47-370-31378 Baud: 9600 Parity: N Databits: 8 Stop Bits: 1 Echo On?
N Command file: (press ENTER, meaning that you don't want to use a script file at this point) Baud can be anything from 300 bps to 9600 bps.
It's up to you, and depends on your modem's capabilities. When done, enter "2" and press ENTER.
The modem will dial the number (that you have as item 2 on the list), and try to connect. If the number is busy, you will get a warning.
You can now leave Procomm (ALT+X), or set it for redialing (ALT+R).
When set for redialing, Procomm will call back until a connection has been made.
When CONNECT is received from your modem, Procomm announces the fact with a beep in the computer's loudspeaker. Text will start scrolling over your screen.
First, a short welcome text pops up.
Your interactive dialog with the bulletin board can start. The first question is "What is your First Name?
Then, "What is your Last Name?
Here are some typical problems: When dialing through a switchboard (PBX). ----------------------------------------- Remember to add 9 or 0 for a city line, when dialing out from a PBX.
The default entry is ATDT.
The remote computer may have had a temporary problem, when you called.
The PTT may have given you a particularly noisy telephone line on this attempt. If this doesn't help, recheck each point in the communications process.
It is so easy to do something wrong. If nothing helps, read the service's user information manuals. Only rarely will you be able to blame the communications program (unless you have made it yourself), or the equipment.
If it has this feature, you can often turn it off.
Put the required command in your Modem init string. * Don't press ENTER to "wake" my system.
The software will automatically detect your speed and adjust accordingly.
The same applies for many services.
On some, you're just asking for problems by not waiting patiently (often the case when the remote software starts by checking if you use an offline reader). * My BBS accepts from 300 to 9600 bps asynchronous, full duplex communication.
You may not succeed with 1200 bps half duplex, Bell 300 bps or 1200 bps. * Start with your communications program set for 8 bits word length, no parity and one stop bit.
Most modems let you set this waiting time longer by giving a value to a S-register. (Read in your modem's manual about how to do this). Partial success --------------- Some bulletin boards offer colors and music.
Ask the bulletin board to send text only (select U for Utilities, and then G for Graphics to change setting), 2.
Set your computer for colors and graphics.
This feature is only available for callers with an MS-DOS computers.
You may need to add the line DEVICE=ANSI.SYS in your CONFIG.SYS. Finally, you must have a communications program that allows you to display colors on your screen.
Procomm set with ANSI-BBS does that. Downloading programs -------------------- We call the transfer of programs and files from a remote computer for downloading.
Such text usually only contains characters between number 32 (space character) and 126 (the ~ character) in the ASCII table. Characters with lower numbers have special functions (like the control characters ESCape and CTRL+C).
These may not even be displayed on your screen.
They ask you to enter a file name.
From this point and onwards all incoming text will be stored in this file until you say stop. Communication programs do this in different ways.
Some let incoming data flow through a temporary storage area using the principle first in, first out.
You start downloading of text by pressing the PgDn key.
A window will appear on your screen giving you a choice between various methods.
Select ASCII. In another window, you are asked to enter a file name.
When done, storage of incoming data starts.
You stop the process by pressing the ESC key. Procomm has another method called "file logging.
You start this by pressing ALT-F1.
This includes so-called ESCape sequences.
You can also request automatic conversion of characters to graphics values, or local language variants. National characters ------------------- Special national characters cause problems in many countries.
One reason is that they are represented by different internal codes on various hardware platforms, and that some networks are unable to transmit 8-bits data. Some systems represent these special characters by a 7-bit code, others by an 8-bit code.
We achieve this by using protocol transfers. These files often contain control or binary characters.
You cannot transfer binary files without the use of special methods. It is easy to understand why we need protocol transfers when retrieving plain text as tables of numbers, statistics, and financial reports.
On most bulletin boards, you must enter a command to navigate to the File Library.
Here, they normally greet you with a menu listing available commands. Try H (for Help!) or ? when you are stuck. Public domain and shareware programs are stored in subdirectories on my bulletin board.
The directories have numerical names.
Utility programs for MS-DOS computers are stored in directory 10.
Games are stored in directory 17. Enter L for a list of available directories (other bulletin boards may use different commands).
Enter "L 17" to list the files in directory 17.
This will give file names, lengths in characters (to help you estimate download time), creation dates, and a short description of each file. You can search for files of interest.
When looking for programs that can help you get more out of a printer, you may search using keywords like "printer." Some programs are made available in text form.
In principle, they work like this: The sending program calculates a check sum based on the contents of the file.
The receiving program does the same calculation and compares the result with the senders' check sum.
If the figures match, the transfer was successful.
If not, all or part of the file will be retransmitted. These are some popular protocols: XMODEM ------ has automatic error detection and correction.
Most modern programs have this feature.
If an error is detected, XMODEM will request retransmission of the last block. XMODEM is reasonably good when there is little noise on the telephone line is low.
When the line is bad, however, there is always a chance that the transfer will stop.
You cannot use XMODEM on computer networks that use ASCII flow control or ESCape codes. The transfer commands must be given to both computers.
You can only transfer one file per command. XMODEM's "packet size" (block length) is short.
The transferred file may contain 127 bytes with noise characters (at the end).
The creation date of the file is lost in the transfer. These weaknesses have given us better methods.
Here are some of them: XMODEM/CRC ---------- CRC is an abbreviation for Cyclical Redundancy Check.
The method guarantees 99.9969 percent free transfer.
It still has the other weaknesses of ordinary XMODEM transfers. YMODEM Batch ------------ is faster than XMODEM and gives a high level of safety in the transfers.
When used with some programs, YMODEM can transfer the files' creation time/date.
You can transfer updated documents.
This will replace documents with an older creation date.
Only one party must enter the file name.
YMODEM takes care of the rest. Kermit ------ is used on many computer platforms, and especially where they use a terminal emulation mode (like VT-100) which makes the use of XMODEM impossible.
It can transfer many packets before stopping to check the transfer.
The protocol is much faster than XMODEM. ZMODEM ------ is currently the fastest transfer protocol for many applications. All transactions are protected with a 16-bit or 32-bit CRC.
ZMODEM is immune against most error conditions that prevent traditional protocols to achieve correct transfer. ZMODEM transfers the creation date of the file and its exact contents.
We use such files to achieve faster transfers. Files having the extension .EXE or .COM may be compressed files that have been converted into a self-extract format.
To retrieve the files from a self-extract compressed file, just enter the file's name. To decompress files that have not been made self-extract, you need a utility program.
These programs have many names and are available through most bulletin boards. Transfer problems ----------------- Most transfer problems are caused by the communication programs and their (lack of) features. Some Procomm users have problems with the Kermit protocol.
Tip: use 8 bit world length and no parity in your program setup.
Some systems interpret a blank line as a signal telling that transmission is done.
The invisible space character prevents this. Some hosts have limitations on line length.
They may require that lines be shorter than 80 characters.
If you send lines that are too long, the result may be fatal. Sending electronic mail ----------------------- If you send your mail too fast, some online services tend to get digestion problems.
You must be very accurate with the format of your message.
The taste was formidable. etc .. etc... etc... Greetings, Odd If this is all you have to say, doing it manually may be as fast as doing it automatically.
However, if the line containing "etc .. etc .." is two full pages of text, you may feel differently.
Then, the best may be to upload a prewritten letter. Many Procomm users prefer to split the job in two.
They enter the first four lines manually, and upload the body of the text (when the remote computer is ready to receive). Press PgUp to get a menu of various uploading protocols.
Select ASCII for transfer of plain text.
Procomm will ask for the name of the file, which contains your letter.
Enter the name, and the file will be sent. Slow down with "pacing" ----------------------- Sometimes, the PgUp method is just what you need.
On other days, strange things may stop you in the middle of your transfer.
Another technique is to ask the program to wait for a given character (a "Go-character"), before allowing it to send the next line.
For example: the character ":" is often used in the prompts for the next line on bulletin boards. Protocol transfers may be easier -------------------------------- You may find it easier to use a transfer protocol.
With Procomm, press the PgUp key, and the program will ask for a protocol.
Select Kermit or something else.
The program will ask for a file name, you enter it, and off it goes.
You will have no problems with blank lines, or lines that are too long. At times, even this will fail.
Total failure. Do the following to upload the file TEST.TXT to my bulletin board using XMODEM: 1.
Navigate to the file area.
Tell SHS what you want by using the following command: u;test.txt;x 2.
Press PgUp, select XMODEM, enter a file name (TEST.TXT), and the transfer will start. (If you're too slow, SHS may be tired of waiting for your commands . . .) 3.
When the transfer is completed, my board will ask for a short description of the file.
Enter it, and you're done. Enter G (for Goodbye), and disconnect. Appendix 4: Explanation of some frequently used terms ========================================= We have included some terms that are commonly used in the online world.
For more information, get a copy of "FYI: Internet User's Glossary.
See FTP for more information. ANON-FTP -------- See Anonymous FTP. ANSI ---- (1) ANSI is an organization that sets standards. (2) 'ANSI graphics' (ref. the term ANSI-BBS) is a set of cursor control codes that originated on the VT100 terminal.
Many online services use these codes to help improve the sending of characters to communication programs.
It uses the escape character, followed by other characters, to move the cursor on the screen, change color, and more. Archie ------ An electronic directory service for locating information throughout the Internet.
You can use Archie to locate files on anonymous ftp archive sites, other online directories and resource listings.
A standard seven-bit code created to achieve compatibility between various types of data processing equipment.
Normally, it takes place without automatic error correction, but it is typically managed by XON/XOFF flow control. Asynchronous transfer --------------------- Serial communication between two computers.
When signals are sent to a computer at irregular intervals, they are described as asynchronous.
Consequently, in case of line noise, the modem can find out right away where the next byte should start. Autodial -------- When a modem dials a telephone number automatically.
There is a difference between bps and baud rate, and the two are often confused.
For example, a device such as a modem said to send at 2400 baud is not correct.
It actually sends 2400 bits per second. Both baud rate and bps refer to the rate at which the bits within a single frame are sent.
The gaps between the frames can be of variable length.
Accordingly, neither baud rate nor bps refer accurately to the rate at which information is actually being transferred. BBS --- Bulletin Board or Bulletin Board System.
See Bulletin Board. Bell ---- Standard frequencies used in older modems made in the United States.
The standard for 300 bps is called Bell 103.
The standard for 1200 bps full duplex is called Bell 212A.
The binary system lets us express any number, if we have enough bits, as a combination of 1's and 0's. Also used to express conditions like on/off, true/false, yes/no. Bits ---- Bit is an abbreviation for Binary digIT.
Computer words and data are made-up of bits, the smallest unit of information. A bit can be either zero or one, represented in a circuit by an off or on state, respectively.
It refers to the rate at which the bits within a single frame are sent ('frame' is another term for 'packet').
The gaps between frames can be of variable length.
Accordingly, bps does not refer to the rate at which information is actually being transferred. We usually estimate the amount of characters transferred per second (cps) by dividing the number of bps by 10.
Example: 2400 bps transfers around 240 characters per second. Boolean ------- Search algorithm built on the algebraic theories of the English mathematician George Booles.
The BBSes let users communicate with each other through message bases, and exchange files.
They and may also offer other services (like news, data base searches, and online shopping). Carrier ------- The tone that the modem sends over a phone line before any data is sent on it.
An international consultative committee, organized by the United Nations.
Membership includes Telephone, governmental Post, and Telegraph Authorities, scientific and trade associations, and private companies.
CCITT is part of the International Telecommunications Union, a United Nations treaty organization based in Geneva, Switzerland. CCITT sets international communications recommendations.
These are often adopted as standards.
It also develops interface, modem, and data network recommendations.
These are serial ports most often used with a modem to set up a communications channel over telephone lines.
Most conferences have separate message bases and often also file libraries and bulletins.
Conferences are focused on topics, like politics, games, multimedia and product support. Connect time ------------ A term used for the hours, minutes, and seconds that a user is connected to an online service.
On several commercial services, users have to pay for connect time. CPS --- Characters per second.
Equipment connected to an RS232 connector must be either a DCE (like a modem or a printer) or a DTE (computer or terminal).
Most modems are unable to tell your computer that a connection has been set up with a remote computer before this circuit has been switched off.
If your computer turns this signal OFF, while it is in a dialog with a remote computer, the modem will normally disconnect. Duplex ------ Describes how you see text entered by the keyboard.
When the setting is HALF DUPLEX, all characters entered on your computer for transfer to an online service (or your modem) will be displayed.
In addition, you will normally receive an echo from the online service (or modem).
The result will often 'bbee lliikkee tthhiiss'. When using the setting FULL DUPLEX, typed characters will not be shown.
A list of FAQ documents is posted every four to six weeks to the Usenet newsgroup news.announce.newusers. File server ----------- A file server is a device that "serves" files to everyone on a network.
It allows everyone on the network to get files in a single place, on one computer.
Finger is useful before initiating chats, known on the Internet as "talk." Flame ----- A "flame" is a conference message sent by someone who generally disagrees so violently that they are willing to sink to personal attacks.
Flames can be extremely annoying, and can get the writer banished from several conference networks. Fractal -------- A mathematical algorithm from which an image can be created.
A fractal formula generates a fractal picture composed of an image based on a basic pattern.
FTP lets you connect to many remote computers, as an anonymous or guest user, to transfer files back to your computer. FTP only lets you list file directories on foreign systems, and get or retrieve files.
You cannot browse menus, send email, or search databases. Usually, type ftp at your system prompt, login on the remote system, and ask for the file you want to receive.
Full-duplex is simultaneous two-way communication. Full-text database ------------------ A database containing the full text of an article, a chapter in a book, or a book.
The contents are not limited to abstracted information (indexes, bibliographic information). FYI --- "For Your Information.
Gateways operate at the 4th through 7th layer of the OSI model.
For example, a PAD (a packet assembler/disassembler) is a device used to interface non-X.25 devices to an X.25 network.
The PAD serves as a gateway.
It works from a top-level subject-oriented menu system that accesses other information services across the Internet.
Gopher combines a finding and fetching capability in one tool. Gopher gets information from certain locations on the Internet to which it is connected, and brings the information to your computer.
It can also get information via other Gophers at other locations connected to yet other hosts.
The file is called gopher.faq. To get it by email, write mail-server@rtfm.mit.edu with the command "send usenet/news.answers/finding-sources" in the body of the text. GuoBiao ------- Coding scheme for using Chinese on computers developed in mainland China.
Login: hytelnet) The Hytelnet anonymous ftp archive is at ftp.usask.ca.
Usually, this address is represented by four numbers joined by periods ('.'), like 129.133.10.10. The first two or three pieces represent the network that the system is on, called its subnet.
ISDN combines voice and digital network services in a single medium, making it possible to offer customers digital data services as well as voice connections through a single "wire.
The standards that define ISDN are specified by CCITT. ISO --- The International Organization for Standardization.
JIS defines special ranges of user-defined characters.
Only the most popular ones are included. The newer Shift JIS standard sets aside certain character codes to signal the start of a two-character sequence.
Together, these define a single Kanji metacharacter. There are many oddities to be found in handling Kanji over the network.
Sending JIS-encoded messages through the Internet is done using a 7-bit code (standardized on JUNET).
It will send you an email message back telling you the BBS name, phone number, and file section of all the systems in the network that match the given criteria. KB -- Kilobyte.
The concept behind the Knowbot is that it is supposed to be a Knowledge Robot -- something that goes hunting for information on the Internet. To reach a Knowbot: telnet CNRI.Reston.va.us port 70 LAN --- Local Area Network.
A data network intended to serve an area of only a few square kilometers or less. LAP-M ----- Link Access Procedure for Modems is a CCITT standard for modem modulation and error control.
The LISTSERV program was originally designed for the BITNET/EARN networks. Similar lists, often using the Unix readnews or rn facility, are available on the Internet. LOOKFOR ------- Fast and flexible shareware program for boolean searches in text files.
Registration: US$15 plus postage to David L.
Trafton, 6309 Stoneham Rd., Bethesda, Md.
20817, U.S.A. Lurking ------- No active participation by a subscriber to a mailing list, a conference, or Usenet newsgroup.
A person who is lurking is just listening to the discussion. MAILBASE -------- A program functioning like a LISTSERV.
Anyone can send a message to a single mailing list address.
The message is "reflected" to everyone on the list of addresses.
Electronic mail software from Action Technologies licensed by Novell for its Netware operating systems. Provides message routing and store and forward capabilities.
MHS has gateways into PROFS, and X.400 message systems.
It has been augmented with a directory naming service and binary attachments. (2) Message Handling System.
A proprietary standard of error control and data compression. Modem ----- An acronym for MOdulator-DEModulator.
It is a device that converts digital data from a computer or terminal into analog data that can be sent over telephone lines.
The telephone industry sometimes refers to a modem as a dataset. Moderator --------- A person, or a small group of people, who manage moderated mailing lists and newsgroups.
Moderators are responsible for deciding which email submissions are passed on to list. MUD --- Multi-User Dungeon.
A multi-user, text based, virtual reality game. NAPLPS ------ North American Presentation-Level Protocol Syntax.
A text and graphics data transmission format for sending large amounts of information between computers. It was designed for the encoding of alphanumeric, alpha-mosaic, alpha-geometric and alpha-photographic constructs.
On CompuServe, NAPLPS has been replaced with a newer protocol called GIF, Graphics Interchange Format. Netfind ------- Internet directory services that allow users to get information about individuals.
An organization that provides users with information about services provided by the Internet network. NREN ---- The National Research and Education Network.
A proposed computer network to be built in the U.S.A. NUA --- Network User Address.
The network address in a packet data network. The electronic number that is sent to the network to connect to an online service.
Also, called X.121 address. NUI --- Network User Identification.
The user name/password that you use to get access to (and use) a commercial packet switched network. Offline ------- has the opposite meaning of "Online" (see below).
It signifies that your computer is not in direct communication with a remote online service. Offline Reader -------------- A computer program making the handling of mail and files from online services easier (and cheaper).
It gives you the feeling of still being connected to the online service, while actually being completely disconnected. When you have read and replied to all messages offline, the offline reader creates a compressed "packet" containing any replies entered.
A set of protocols designed to be an international standard method for connecting unlike computers and networks. OZCIS ----- DOS-based program that automates access to CompuServe using an elaborate array of menus.
Value added networks offering long distance computer communications.
They use synchronous communications, usually with the X.25 protocol.
This allows each packet to go by a different route.
At this point, the service often presents the user with a reminder, a cue, a prompt.
A telephone service provider, often a monopoly, in a particular country. QWK --- Qwikmail.
A common offline message file format for bulletin boards offering mail through a QMail Door.
The .QWK door and file format has been used to develop entire BBS networks (example: ILINK.) See "offline reader." RFC --- The Internet's Request for Comments document series.
Works like the search function in a common word processor program. On online services, your commands will often search the full document (including the title, subtitles, keywords, and the full text).
Sometimes, string searches just return a line or a few lines around the hit.
In other cases, they return the full screen or the full document. Sysop ----- Common name used on bulletin boards for System Operator.
It lets callers read and respond to personal email and forum message threads offline, and download files.
Contact: Support Group, Inc., Lake Technology Park, McHenry, MD 21541, U.S.A.
Registration: US$ 79.00. TCP/IP ------ Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol.
Set of communications protocols that internetwork dissimilar systems connected to the Internet.
TCP/IP supports services such as remote login (telnet), file transfer (FTP), and mail (SMTP). Telnet ------ A program on the Internet that allows logins to another computer to run software there.
Sometimes, you can join live, interactive games and chat with other callers.
Usually, you cannot download files or list file directories. Telnet is not available to users who have email only access to the Internet. To telnet a remote computer, you must know its name.
This can either be in words, like "vm1.nodak.edu", or a numeric address, like "134.129.111.1".
Some services require that you connect to a specific "port" on the remote system.
Enter the port number, if there is one, after the Internet address. For a list of SPECIAL INTERNET CONNECTIONS, send email to bbslist@aug3.augsburg.edu.
You can also get it by ftp or gopher to csd4.csd.uwm.edu, and through alt.internet.services on Usenet. Terminal emulator ----------------- A program that allows a computer to emulate a terminal.
The workstation appears as a given type of terminal to the remote host. TRICKLE ------- Servers on the Internet offering the SIMTEL20 shareware and public domain files by email (uuencoded).
For more information, see appendix 1. UUCP ---- See appendix 1. Veronica -------- A service on the Internet.
Maintains an index of gopher items, and provides keyword searches of those titles.
The result of a search is a set of gopher-type data items, which is returned to the user as a gopher menu.
It is a powerful tool for concurrent searches of large databases and/or newsgroups on the Internet. Example: Telnet QUAKE.THINK.COM (or Telnet 192.31.181.1).
Login as "wais". WAN --- Wide Area Network. The 'whatis' database --------------------- Archie (see above) also permits access to the whatis description database.
It will give you the person's company name, address, phone number, and email address.
It had around 70,000 listings in December 1992. To access the WHOIS, telnet to rs.internic.net.
When greeted by the host, type "WHOIS" and press RETURN.
It also has a gopher service (type "gopher" go access, instead of "wais"). WWW (World Wide Web) -------------------- is much like Gopher in that it provides top level access down to other services on the Internet.
WWW uses a hypertext interface with cross links between things.
You can use highlighted words to jump off onto another track. WYSIWYG ------- What You See is What You Get. X.25 ---- A CCITT standard communications protocol used internationally in packet data networks.
It provides error-checked communication between packet data networks and their users or other networks. Rather than sending a stream of bits like a modem, an X.25 router sends packets of data.
There are different packet sizes and types.
Each packet contains data to be transmitted, information about the packet's origin, destination, size, and its place in the order of the packets sent.
There are clear packets that perform the equivalent of hanging-up the phone.
There are reset, restart, and diagnostic packets.
Quarterman, Digital Press, Bedford, MA, 719 pages, 1990. (Internet address: mids@tic.com.
Gopher service at gopher.tic.com.) "Matrix News," a newsletter about cross-network issues.
Paper subscriptions: US$30 for twelve monthly issues, or US$20 for students; for overseas postage, add US$10 (1992). Contact: Matrix News, Building 2 Suite 300, 1120 South Capitol of Texas Highway, Austin, TX 78746, U.S.A.
Email: mids@tic.com . "!%@:: A Directory of Electronic Mail Addressing and Networks," by Donnalyn Frey and Rick Adams (O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., 632 Petaluma Avenue, Sebastopol, CA 95472, U.S.A.).
408 pages, US26.95. Write to nuts@ora.com for ordering information. "The User's Directory of Computer Networks" by Tracy L.
LaQuey (Ed.), University of Texas, Digital Press, 12 Crosby Drive, Bedford, MA 01730, U.S.A.
630 pages, 1990. "Zen and the Art of the Internet: A Beginner's Guide, Second Edition" by Brendan P.
Kehoe, Prentice-Hall Series in Innovative Technology, 1993.
112 pages, ISBN 0-13-010778-6, US$22.00. "The Whole Internet User's Guide and Catalog," by Ed Krol.
1992. Published by O'Reilly and Associates, Inc., 103 Morris Street, Suite A, Sebastopol, CA 95472, U.S.A..
Email questions to nuts@ora.com or uunet!ora!nuts . "A Guide to Electronic Mail Networks and Addressing," by Donnalyn Frey and Rick Adams.
O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., 103 Morris Street, Suite A, Sebastopol, CA 95472, U.S.A.
Email address: nuts@ora.com . "Managing UUCP and the Internet.
Published by O'Reilly and Associates, Inc., 103 Morris Street, Suite A, Sebastopol, CA 95472, U.S.A.
Email address: nuts@ora.com . "The Internet Companion: A Beginner's Guide to Global Networking" by Tracy LaQuey, with Jeanne C.
Order direct from Addison-Wesley Publishing Co., Inc., 1 Jacob Way, Reading, MA 01867, U.S.A. "Internet: Getting Started," April Marine, ed., SRI International, Menlo Park, CA, May 1992.
ISBN: none, US$39. "The New User's Guide to the Internet" by Daniel P.
Dern, McGraw- Hill, New York, USA.
ISBN 0-07- 16511-4 (pbk). "An Internet Primer for Information Professionals: A Basic Guide to Networking Technology," by Elizabeth S.
Lane, and Craig A. Summerhil, p.
200, Meckler Corp., Westport, CT, USA.
ISBN 0-88736-831-X. "Crossing the Internet Threshold," by Roy Tennant, John Ober, and Anne G.
134, Library Solutions Press, 1100 Industrial Rd., Suite 9, San Carlos, CA 94070, U.S.A.
US$45.00 plus shipping and handling. "The Internet Passport: NorthWestNet's Guide to Our World Online" by Kochmer, Jonathan and NorthWestNet.
Bellevue, WA, USA: NorthWestNet, 1993.
Price: US$39.95. (US$19.95 nonprofit and educational).
Fax: +1-206-562-4822. "Internet: Mailing Lists 1993 Edition.
Kuo, SRI Internet Information Services.
Published by PTR Prentice Hall, New Jersey, USA.
Paperback, 356 pages. "Internet Connections: A Librarian's Guide to Dial-Up Access and Use" by Mary E.
Engle, Marilyn Lutz, William W.
Jones, Jr., and Genevieve Engel.
Library and Information Technology Association's Monographs Series, #3, 1993.
ISBN 0-8389-7677-0. "Internet World magazine", Meckler Corporation, 11 Ferry Lane West, Westport, CT 06880, U.S.A. (meckler@jvnc.net) "The Internet Business Journal," 1-60 Springfield Road, Ottawa, CANADA, K1M 1C7.
Publisher: Michael Strangelove <72302.3062@compuserve.com>. "Netpower: Resource Guide to Online Computer Networks," by Eric Persson, Fox Chapel Publishing, Box 7948, Lancaster, PA 17604-7948, U.S.A.
Email: NetPower1@aol.com . "Information Highways.
Annual subscription: $98.00CDN. Information Highways, 162 Joicey Blvd., Toronto, Ontario, M5M 2V2, Canada.
Fax: +1-416-488-7078. Bulletin Board systems and networks ----------------------------------- BoardWatch Magazine, 7586 Weat Jewell Ave., Suite 200, Lakewood, CO 80232, U.S.A.
Email: jrickard@boardwatch.com . CompuServe ---------- "CompuServe from A to Z," by Charles Bowen, Bantam Computer Books, 1991.
Paperback, 520 pages. GEnie ----- "Glossbrenner's Master Guide to GEnie," Alfred Glossbrenner, Osborne/McGraw-Hill, 1991, US$39.95, paperback, 616 pages. Various ------- "EcoLinking: Everyone's Guide to Online Environmental Information," by Don Rittner.
US$34.95 plus $3.00 shipping. "The Information Broker's Handbook," by Sue Rugge and Alfred Glossbrenner, Windcrest/McGraw-Hill. "Dvorak's Guide to PC Telecommunications," John Dvorak and Nick Anis (1992, 1128 pages, US$39.95).
Second edition. Articles -------- The following articles are available by email from LISTSERV@UHUPVM1 (BITNET) or LISTSERV@UHUPVM1.UH.EDU (Internet).
In the TEXT of your message, write the GET command shown after the article's citation below: Bailey, Charles W., Jr. "Electronic Publishing on Networks: A Selective Bibliography of Recent Works.
The Public-Access Computer Systems Review 3, no. 2 (1992): 13-20.
GET BAILEY PRV3N2 F=MAIL. Harnad, Stevan.
Post-Gutenberg Galaxy: The Fourth Revolution in the Means of Production of Knowledge.
The Public-Access Computer Systems Review 2, no. 1 (1991): 39-53.
GET HARNAD PRV2N1 F=MAIL. Halbert, Martin.
Public-Access Computer Systems and the Internet.
The Public-Access Computer Systems Review 1, no. 2 (1990): 71-80.
GET HALBERT PRV1N2 F=MAIL. Arms, Caroline R.
Review of Library Resources on the Internet: Strategies for Selection and Use, by Laine Farley, ed. In The Public-Access Computer Systems Review 3, no. 2 (1992): 29-34.
GET ARMS PRV3N2 F=MAIL. Barron, Billy.
Review of Zen and the Art of the Internet: A Beginner's Guide to the Internet, by Brendan P.
In The Public-Access Computer Systems Review 3, no. 1 (1992): 57-59.
GET BARRON PRV3N1 F=MAIL. Cook, Dave.
Review of The User's Directory of Computer Networks, by Tracy L.
LaQuey, ed. In The Public-Access Computer Systems Review 2, no. 1 (1991): 177-181.
He has written twelve books.
Half these focus on various aspects of the Online World.
The rest is about practical applications of MS-DOS based personal computers. Published in Norway and England.
His book "The Online World" is distributed globally as shareware. Over 700 of his articles have been published in management and technical magazines in Scandinavia, England, Japan, and the U.S. Writer.
Sales manager Control Data Corp. seven years (in charge of CYBERNET/Norway, an international online service).
Marketing manager IKO Software Service A/S, two years. Currently running his own business. Member of the Computer Press Association (U.S.A.) since 1983, and NFF (Norway).
Listed in Marquis' "Who's Who in the World" from 1991. Appendix 8: HOW TO REGISTER YOUR COPY OF THE ONLINE WORLD ============================================= The online world is extremely dynamic.
Services and offerings come and go. Your registration will support further research, and production of updates. You can register your current copy, or sign up for six updates of the book during one year.
For details, send a message to LISTSERV@vm1.nodak.edu (BITNET users can send it to LISTSERV@NDSUVM1).
It is very tiresome, Olga," he said.
However, simply because she was surprised into a tiny exclamation of approval at sight of a splendid young stranger it must not be inferred therefrom that her thoughts were in any way disloyal to her spouse.
She merely admired, as she might have admired a particularly fine specimen of any species. Furthermore, the young man was unquestionably good to look at. As her furtive glance rested upon his profile he rose to leave the deck.
The Countess de Coude beckoned to a passing steward.
He would have vouchsafed them not even a passing thought but for the strangely guilty glance that one of them shot in his direction.
They reminded Tarzan of melodramatic villains he had seen at the theaters in Paris.
He felt in no mood for conversation, and as he sipped his absinth he let his mind run rather sorrowfully over the past few weeks of his life.
Time and again he had wondered if he had acted wisely in renouncing his birthright to a man to whom he owed nothing.
It is true that he liked Clayton, but-ah, but that was not the question.
It was not for William Cecil Clayton, Lord Greystoke, that he had denied his birth.
He tried to look forward with pleasurable sensations to his return to the jungle of his birth and boyhood; the cruel, fierce jungle in which he had spent twenty of his twenty-two years.
But who or what of all the myriad jungle life would there be to welcome his return?
Only Tantor, the elephant, could he call friend.
And in the same ratio had it made any other life distasteful to him.
It was difficult to imagine a world without a friend-without a living thing who spoke the new tongues which Tarzan had learned to love so well.
Aside from the man who had but just entered the game Tarzan knew the name of but one of the other players.
Tarzan saw him turn and glance furtively about the room, but his eyes did not rest for a sufficient time upon the mirror to note the reflection of Tarzan's watchful eyes.
Stealthily the man withdrew something from his pocket.
Tarzan could not discern what the object was, for the man's hand covered it. Slowly the hand approached the count, and then, very deftly, the thing that was in it was transferred to the count's pocket.
The man remained standing where he could watch the Frenchman's cards.
Permit me to pass, monsieur." "Wait," said Tarzan.
I think that there is a matter in here that you may doubtless be able to explain." The fellow had lost his temper by this time, and with a low oath seized Tarzan to push him to one side.
The ape-man but smiled as he twisted the big fellow about and, grasping him by the collar of his coat, escorted him back to the table, struggling, cursing, and striking in futile remonstrance.
Gentlemen, I implore that one of you search me." "The accusation is ridiculous.
This from one of the players. "You have but to slip your hand in the count's coat pocket and you will see that the accusation is quite serious," insisted the accuser.
And then, as the others still hesitated to do so: "Come, I shall do it myself if no other will," and he stepped forward toward the count. "No, monsieur," said De Coude.
I will submit to a search only at the hands of a gentleman." "It is unnecessary to search the count.
The cards are in his pocket.
There are no cards in my coat," and with that he ran his hand into his pocket.
As he did so tense silence reigned in the little group.
The count went dead white, and then very slowly he withdrew his hand, and in it were three cards. He looked at them in mute and horrified surprise, and slowly the red of mortification suffused his face.
Expressions of pity and contempt tinged the features of those who looked on at the death of a man's honor. "It is a conspiracy, monsieur.
It was the gray-eyed stranger who spoke.
Gentlemen," he continued, "monsieur le count did not know that those cards were in his pocket.
They were placed there without his knowledge as he sat at play.
From where I sat in that chair yonder I saw the reflection of it all in the mirror before me.
This person whom I just intercepted in an effort to escape placed the cards in the count's pocket." De Coude had glanced from Tarzan to the man in his grasp. "_Mon Dieu_, Nikolas!" he cried.
You?" Then he turned to his accuser, and eyed him intently for a moment. "And you, monsieur, I did not recognize you without your beard.
It quite disguises you, Paulvitch.
I see it all now.
It is quite clear, gentlemen." "What shall we do with them, monsieur?" asked Tarzan.
Turn them over to the captain?" "No, my friend," said the count hastily.
It is a personal matter, and I beg that you will let it drop.
It is sufficient that I have been exonerated from the charge.
The less we have to do with such fellows, the better.
But, monsieur, how can I thank you for the great kindness you have done me?
Permit me to offer you my card, and should the time come when I may serve you, remember that I am yours to command." Tarzan had released Rokoff, who, with his confederate, Paulvitch, had hastened from the smoking-room.
Just as he was leaving, Rokoff turned to Tarzan.
Monsieur will have ample opportunity to regret his interference in the affairs of others." Tarzan smiled, and then, bowing to the count, handed him his own card. The count read: M.
TARZAN "Monsieur Tarzan," he said, "may indeed wish that he had never befriended me, for I can assure him that he has won the enmity of two of the most unmitigated scoundrels in all Europe.
Avoid them, monsieur, by all means." "I have had more awe-inspiring enemies, my dear count," replied Tarzan with a quiet smile, "yet I am still alive and unworried.
He opened it and read: M.
TARZAN: Doubtless you did not realize the gravity of your offense, or you would not have done the thing you did today.
I am willing to believe that you acted in ignorance and without any intention to offend a stranger.
You have been as glum as could be all evening.
What worries you?" "Olga, Nikolas is on board.
Did you know it?" "Nikolas!" she exclaimed.
But it is impossible, Raoul.
It cannot be. Nikolas is under arrest in Germany." "So I thought myself until I saw him today-him and that other arch scoundrel, Paulvitch.
Olga, I cannot endure his persecution much longer.
No, not even for you.
Sooner or later I shall turn him over to the authorities.
In fact, I am half minded to explain all to the captain before we land.
On a French liner it were an easy matter, Olga, permanently to settle this Nemesis of ours." "Oh, no, Raoul!" cried the countess, sinking to her knees before him as he sat with bowed head upon a divan.
Remember your promise to me.
Tell me, Raoul, that you will not do that.
I cannot understand. He has forfeited all claim upon your love, loyalty, or respect.
He is a menace to your life and honor, and the life and honor of your husband. I trust you may never regret championing him." "I do not champion him, Raoul," she interrupted vehemently.
I believe that I hate him as much as you do, but-Oh, Raoul, blood is thicker than water." "I should today have liked to sample the consistency of his," growled De Coude grimly.
The two deliberately attempted to besmirch my honor, Olga," and then he told her of all that had happened in the smoking-room.
Had it not been for this utter stranger, they had succeeded, for who would have accepted my unsupported word against the damning evidence of those cards hidden on my person?
I had almost begun to doubt myself when this Monsieur Tarzan dragged your precious Nikolas before us, and explained the whole cowardly transaction." "Monsieur Tarzan?" asked the countess, in evident surprise. "Yes.
Do you know him, Olga?" "I have seen him.
A steward pointed him out to me." "I did not know that he was a celebrity," said the count. Olga de Coude changed the subject.
She discovered suddenly that she might find it difficult to explain just why the steward had pointed out the handsome Monsieur Tarzan to her.
Perhaps she flushed the least little bit, for was not the count, her husband, gazing at her with a strangely quizzical expression.
Scarcely had he hesitated ere the man seized the woman roughly by the wrist, twisting it as though to wring a promise from her through torture.
What would have happened next had Rokoff had his way we may only conjecture, since he did not have his way at all.
Instead, steel fingers gripped his shoulder, and he was swung unceremoniously around, to meet the cold gray eyes of the stranger who had thwarted him on the previous day. "_Sapristi!_" screamed the infuriated Rokoff.
Are you a fool that you thus again insult Nikolas Rokoff?" "This is my answer to your note, monsieur," said Tarzan, in a low voice.
And then he hurled the fellow from him with such force that Rokoff lunged sprawling against the rail. "Name of a name!" shrieked Rokoff.
Pig, but you shall die for this," and, springing to his feet, he rushed upon Tarzan, tugging the meanwhile to draw a revolver from his hip pocket.
The girl shrank back in terror. "Nikolas!" she cried.
Do not-oh, do not do that.
Quick, monsieur, fly, or he will surely kill you!
But instead of flying Tarzan advanced to meet the fellow.
Do not make a fool of yourself, monsieur," he said. Rokoff, who was in a perfect frenzy of rage at the humiliation the stranger had put upon him, had at last succeeded in drawing the revolver.
He had stopped, and now he deliberately raised it to Tarzan's breast and pulled the trigger.
Rokoff had regained his self-possession.
He was the first to speak. "Twice now has monsieur seen fit to interfere in matters which do not concern him.
Twice he has taken it upon himself to humiliate Nikolas Rokoff.
The first offense was overlooked on the assumption that monsieur acted through ignorance, but this affair shall not be overlooked.
Then, without even a glance toward Rokoff and his companion, he continued his stroll along the deck. Tarzan could not but wonder what manner of conspiracy was on foot, or what the scheme of the two men might be.
There had been something rather familiar about the appearance of the veiled woman to whose rescue he had just come, but as he had not seen her face he could not be sure that he had ever seen her before.
Cheating, murdering, lying, fighting, and all for things that the beasts of the jungle would not deign to possess-money to purchase the effeminate pleasures of weaklings.
And yet withal bound down by silly customs that make them slaves to their unhappy lot while firm in the belief that they be the lords of creation enjoying the only real pleasures of existence.
In the jungle one would scarcely stand supinely aside while another took his mate.
She was very young, and equally good to look upon.
Further, there was something rather familiar about her that set Tarzan to wondering where he had seen her before.
He resumed his former position, and presently he was aware that she had arisen and was leaving the deck.
Here Tarzan found greater difficulty in escaping detection, but he managed to do so successfully.
May I come in?" "Why do you not cease persecuting me, Nikolas?" came the voice of the woman from beyond the thin panel.
I have never harmed you." "Come, come, Olga," urged the man, in propitiary tones; "I but ask a half dozen words with you.
I shall not harm you, nor shall I enter your cabin; but I cannot shout my message through the door." Tarzan heard the catch click as it was released from the inside.
Paulvitch had flattened himself against the paneled wall of the corridor beyond.
Rokoff half entered the room, and stood with his back against the door, speaking in a low whisper to the woman, whom Tarzan could not see.
Then Tarzan heard the woman's voice, level, but loud enough to distinguish her words. "No, Nikolas," she was saying, "it is useless.
Threaten as you will, I shall never accede to your demands.
Leave the room, please; you have no right here.
You promised not to enter." "Very well, Olga, I shall not enter; but before I am done with you, you shall wish a thousand times that you had done at once the favor I have asked.
Then the latter stepped quickly out.
Tarzan heard the click of the lock as Paulvitch turned it from the inside.
Rokoff remained standing before the door, with head bent, as though to catch the words of the two within.
A nasty smile curled his bearded lip. Tarzan could hear the woman's voice commanding the fellow to leave her cabin.
I shall send for my husband," she cried.
He will show you no mercy." Paulvitch's sneering laugh came through the polished panels. "The purser will fetch your husband, madame," said the man.
In fact, that officer has already been notified that you are entertaining a man other than your husband behind the locked door of your cabin." "Bah!" cried the woman.
My husband will know!" "Most assuredly your husband will know, but the purser will not; nor will the newspaper men who shall in some mysterious way hear of it on our landing.
But they will think it a fine story, and so will all your friends when they read of it at breakfast on-let me see, this is Tuesday-yes, when they read of it at breakfast next Friday morning.
Only a moment of silence, and then a startled oath from the man-the scuffling of feet-a woman's scream-and silence. But scarcely had the cry ceased before the ape-man had leaped from his hiding-place.
Rokoff started to run, but Tarzan grasped him by the collar and dragged him back.
Without hesitating to question those within, the ape-man threw his giant shoulder against the frail panel, and in a shower of splintered wood he entered the cabin, dragging Rokoff after him.
The girl rose falteringly to a sitting posture upon the couch.
One hand was at her throat, and her breath came in little gasps.
The man remained silent, scowling.
Touch the button, please," continued the ape-man; "we will have one of the ship's officers here-this affair has gone quite far enough." "No, no," cried the girl, coming suddenly to her feet.
Please do not do that.
I am sure that there was no real intention to harm me.
I angered this person, and he lost control of himself, that is all.
Tarzan saw a malicious grin of triumph curl Rokoff's lip. The girl evidently was in fear of these two-she dared not express her real desires before them. "Then," said Tarzan, "I shall act on my own responsibility.
Then he turned back to the stateroom and the girl.
You have made a very wicked and resourceful enemy, who will stop at nothing to satisfy his hatred.
You must be very careful indeed, Monsieur-" "Pardon me, madame, my name is Tarzan." "Monsieur Tarzan.
And because I would not consent to notify the officers, do not think that I am not sincerely grateful to you for the brave and chivalrous protection you rendered me.
Before he turned in that night his thoughts reverted many times to the beautiful young woman into the evidently tangled web of whose life fate had so strangely introduced him.
It occurred to him that he had not learned her name.
That she was married had been evidenced by the narrow gold band that encircled the third finger of her left hand.
Then he came suddenly face to face with the young woman as the two approached their deck chairs from opposite directions.
She greeted him with a pleasant smile, speaking almost immediately of the affair he had witnessed in her cabin two nights before.
Men such as they must cleave only to the vile, hating all that is noblest and best." "It is very kind of you to put it that way," she replied, smiling.
I have already heard of the matter of the card game.
My husband told me the entire story.
He spoke especially of the strength and bravery of Monsieur Tarzan, to whom he feels that he owes an immense debt of gratitude." "Your husband?" repeated Tarzan questioningly. "Yes.
You know that I did not mean that.
Have I not told you a dozen times that I have enough for twenty men, and that half of what I have is yours?
And if I gave it all to you, would it represent even the tenth part of the value I place upon your friendship, my Tarzan?
Would it repay the services you did me in Africa?
Nor am I trying to repay you with money, Tarzan.
It is that just at present you need money; were it sacrifice that I might offer you it were the same-my friendship must always be yours, because our tastes are similar, and I admire you.
That I cannot command, but the money I can and shall." "Well," laughed Tarzan, "we shall not quarrel over the money.
I must live, and so I must have it; but I shall be more contented with something to do.
You cannot show me your friendship in a more convincing manner than to find employment for me-I shall die of inactivity in a short while.
As for my birthright-it is in good hands. Clayton is not guilty of robbing me of it.
I could not have done that-could I, Paul? "Nor is the matter of birth of great importance to me," he went on, without waiting for a reply.
Raised as I have been, I see no worth in man or beast that is not theirs by virtue of their own mental or physical prowess.
And so I am as happy to think of Kala as my mother as I would be to try to picture the poor, unhappy little English girl who passed away a year after she bore me.
Kala was always kind to me in her fierce and savage way.
I must have nursed at her hairy breast from the time that my own mother died.
She fought for me against the wild denizens of the forest, and against the savage members of our tribe, with the ferocity of real mother love. "And I, on my part, loved her, Paul.
I did not realize how much until after the cruel spear and the poisoned arrow of Mbonga's black warrior had stolen her away from me.
I was still a child when that occurred, and I threw myself upon her dead body and wept out my anguish as a child might for his own mother.
To you, my friend, she would have appeared a hideous and ugly creature, but to me she was beautiful-so gloriously does love transfigure its object.
Remember what I say, and let us hope that it will be as easy then as it is now.
That evidence is most important.
They are both old men.
They may not live many years longer.
And then, did it not occur to you that once Miss Porter knew the truth she would break her engagement with Clayton?
You might easily have your title, your estates, and the woman you love, Tarzan.
Had you not thought of that?" Tarzan shook his head.
You do not know her," he said.
Nothing could bind her closer to her bargain than some misfortune to Clayton.
She is from an old southern family in America, and southerners pride themselves upon their loyalty." Tarzan spent the two following weeks renewing his former brief acquaintance with Paris.
In the daytime he haunted the libraries and picture galleries.
Because it was very quiet and very dark it reminded him more of his beloved African jungle than did the noisy and garish streets surrounding it.
If you are familiar with your Paris you will recall the narrow, forbidding precincts of the Rue Maule.
The voice was a woman's.
Another instant found him in the center of a dimly-lighted room.
An oil lamp burned upon a high, old-fashioned mantel, casting its dim rays over a dozen repulsive figures.
All but one were men.
The other was a woman of about thirty.
Her face, marked by low passions and dissipation, might once have been lovely.
He wondered that they had made no effort to escape.
A movement behind him caused him to turn.
Two things his eyes saw, and one of them caused him considerable wonderment.
A man was sneaking stealthily from the room, and in the brief glance that Tarzan had of him he saw that it was Rokoff.
But the other thing that he saw was of more immediate interest.
Some of the men drew knives.
He was reveling in the joy of battle and the lust of blood.
For the immaculate gentleman her cries had lured to what was to have been his death had been suddenly metamorphosed into a demon of revenge.
Instead of soft muscles and a weak resistance, she was looking upon a veritable Hercules gone mad. "_Mon Dieu!_" she cried; "he is a beast!
He came to my room while I was alone, and for no good purpose.
When I repulsed him he would have killed me had not my screams attracted these gentlemen, who were passing the house at the time.
He is a devil, monsieurs; alone he has all but killed ten men with his bare hands and his teeth." So shocked was Tarzan by her ingratitude that for a moment he was struck dumb.
The police were inclined to be a little skeptical, for they had had other dealings with this same lady and her lovely coterie of gentlemen friends.
I have but sought to defend myself.
An instant later he lay crumpled in a corner of the room, and then, as his comrades rushed in upon the ape-man, they experienced a taste of what the apaches had but recently gone through.
As the last officer went down, one of his fellows succeeded in drawing his revolver and, from where he lay on the floor, fired at Tarzan.
His comrades thought that he lied, but they could not prove it. When Tarzan found himself clinging to the pole outside the window, he followed his jungle instinct and looked below for enemies before he ventured down.
When he emerged a few moments later it was to saunter slowly on toward his apartments. Not far from them he came to a well-lighted boulevard which it was necessary to cross.
As he stood directly beneath a brilliant arc light, waiting for a limousine that was approaching to pass him, he heard his name called in a sweet feminine voice.
Looking up, he met the smiling eyes of Olga de Coude as she leaned forward upon the back seat of the machine.
He bowed very low in response to her friendly greeting.
Jungle standards do not countenance wanton atrocities.
There we kill for food and for self-preservation, or in the winning of mates and the protection of the young.
Always, you see, in accordance with the dictates of some great natural law.
Faugh, your civilized man is more brutal than the brutes.
He kills wantonly, and, worse than that, he utilizes a noble sentiment, the brotherhood of man, as a lure to entice his unwary victim to his doom.
But it must have been so-the sight of Rokoff there and the woman's later repudiation of me to the police make it impossible to place any other construction upon her acts.
Rokoff must have known that I frequently passed through the Rue Maule.
He lay in wait for me-his entire scheme worked out to the last detail, even to the woman's story in case a hitch should occur in the program such as really did happen.
You are not through with the police yet, remember.
I know the Paris police well enough to assure you that they will not soon forget what you did to them.
Sooner or later they will get you, my dear Tarzan, and then they will lock the wild man of the woods up behind iron bars.
How will you like that?" "They will never lock Tarzan of the Apes behind iron bars," replied he, grimly. There was something in the man's voice as he said it that caused D'Arnot to look up sharply at his friend.
What he saw in the set jaw and the cold, gray eyes made the young Frenchman very apprehensive for this great child, who could recognize no law mightier than his own mighty physical prowess.
He saw that something must be done to set Tarzan right with the police before another encounter was possible. "You have much to learn, Tarzan," he said gravely.
The law of man must be respected, whether you relish it or no. Nothing but trouble can come to you and your friends should you persist in defying the police.
I can explain it to them once for you, and that I shall do this very day, but hereafter you must obey the law.
If its representatives say 'Come,' you must come; if they say 'Go,' you must go.
Now we shall go to my great friend in the department and fix up this matter of the Rue Maule. Come!" Together they entered the office of the police official a half hour later.
Summon these officers-have them come to me at once," and he handed the man the paper he had sought.
Then he turned to Tarzan. "You have committed a very grave offense, monsieur," he said, not unkindly, "and but for the explanation made by our good friend here I should be inclined to judge you harshly.
I am, instead, about to do a rather unheard-of-thing.
I have summoned the officers whom you maltreated last night.
They shall hear Lieutenant D'Arnot's story, and then I shall leave it to their discretion to say whether you shall be prosecuted or not. "You have much to learn about the ways of civilization.
Things that seem strange or unnecessary to you, you must learn to accept until you are able to judge the motives behind them.
The officers whom you attacked were but doing their duty.
They had no discretion in the matter.
Every day they risk their lives in the protection of the lives or property of others.
They would do the same for you.
They are very brave men, and they are deeply mortified that a single unarmed man bested and beat them. "Make it easy for them to overlook what you did.
Unless I am gravely in error you are yourself a very brave man, and brave men are proverbially magnanimous." Further conversation was interrupted by the appearance of the four policemen.
As their eyes fell on Tarzan, surprise was writ large on each countenance. "My children," said the official, "here is the gentleman whom you met in the Rue Maule last evening.
He has come voluntarily to give himself up.
I wish you to listen attentively to Lieutenant D'Arnot, who will tell you a part of the story of monsieur's life.
It may explain his attitude toward you of last night.
Proceed, my dear lieutenant." D'Arnot spoke to the policemen for half an hour.
He told them something of Tarzan's wild jungle life.
He explained the savage training that had taught him to battle like a wild beast in self-preservation.
It became plain to them that the man had been guided by instinct rather than reason in his attack upon them.
It is the fact that this man overcame you that hurts the most.
But you need feel no shame.
With outstretched hand he advanced toward them. "I am sorry for the mistake I made," he said simply.
Tarzan did not need to be told who was meant by "they.
He made no reply, but he was very quiet and thoughtful during the balance of the day. That evening they attended the opera.
Tarzan's mind was still occupied by his gloomy thoughts.
He paid little or no attention to what was transpiring upon the stage.
Instead he saw only the lovely vision of a beautiful American girl, and heard naught but a sad, sweet voice acknowledging that his love was returned.
And she was to marry another! He shook himself to be rid of his unwelcome thoughts, and at the same instant he felt eyes upon him.
With the instinct that was his by virtue of training he looked up squarely into the eyes that were looking at him, to find that they were shining from the smiling face of Olga, Countess de Coude.
As Tarzan returned her bow he was positive that there was an invitation in her look, almost a plea.
The next intermission found him beside her in her box. "I have so much wished to see you," she was saying.
My thoughts of you have been only the most pleasant.
You must not feel that any explanation is due me.
Have they annoyed you further?" "They never cease," she replied sadly.
I feel that I must tell some one, and I do not know another who so deserves an explanation as you. You must permit me to do so.
It may be of service to you, for I know Nikolas Rokoff quite well enough to be positive that you have not seen the last of him.
He will find some means to be revenged upon you.
What I wish to tell you may be of aid to you in combating any scheme of revenge he may harbor.
I cannot tell you here, but tomorrow I shall be at home to Monsieur Tarzan at five." "It will be an eternity until tomorrow at five," he said, as he bade her good night.
The footman who opened the door raised his eyebrows in recognition as he saw who stood without.
A low conversation passed between the two. At first the footman demurred from some proposition that the bearded one made, but an instant later something passed from the hand of the caller to the hand of the servant.
The count is intrusted with many of the vital secrets of the ministry of war.
They will stop at nothing to procure this information.
The affair on the liner-I mean the matter of the card game-was for the purpose of blackmailing the knowledge they seek from my husband. "Had he been convicted of cheating at cards, his career would have been blighted.
He would have had to leave the war department.
He would have been socially ostracized.
Then they concocted the scheme whereby my reputation was to be the price, instead of the count's.
When Paulvitch entered my cabin he explained it to me.
He was to tell every one he met on the boat, and when we landed he was to have given the whole story to the newspaper men. "Was it not too horrible?
But I happened to know something of Monsieur Paulvitch that would send him to the gallows in Russia if it were known by the police of St. Petersburg.
I dared him to carry out his plan, and then I leaned toward him and whispered a name in his ear.
Like that"-and she snapped her fingers-"he flew at my throat as a madman.
He would have killed me had you not interfered." "The brutes!" muttered Tarzan. "They are worse than that, my friend," she said.
I fear for you because you have gained their hatred.
I wish you to be on your guard constantly.
Tell me that you will, for my sake, for I should never forgive myself should you suffer through the kindness you did me." "I do not fear them," he replied.
I have survived grimmer enemies than Rokoff and Paulvitch.
They should make quick work of them." She hesitated for a moment before replying. "There are two reasons," she said finally.
One of them it is that keeps the count from doing that very thing.
The other, my real reason for fearing to expose them, I have never told-only Rokoff and I know it.
I believe that you would understand, and that you could tell me the right course to follow.
But first let me tell you the reason the count has for not prosecuting these men; then, if I can hold my courage, I shall tell you the real reason that I dare not.
The first is that Nikolas Rokoff is my brother. We are Russians.
Nikolas has been a bad man since I can remember.
The fact that you are his sister has not deterred him from seeking to besmirch your honor.
You owe him no loyalty, madame." "Ah, but there is that other reason.
I was educated in a convent.
While there I met a man whom I supposed to be a gentleman.
I knew little or nothing about men and less about love.
I got it into my foolish head that I loved this man, and at his urgent request I ran away with him.
We were to have been married. "I was with him just three hours.
All in the daytime and in public places-railroad stations and upon a train.
When we reached our destination where we were to have been married, two officers stepped up to my escort as we descended from the train, and placed him under arrest.
They took me also, but when I had told my story they did not detain me, other than to send me back to the convent under the care of a matron.
It seemed that the man who had wooed me was no gentleman at all, but a deserter from the army as well as a fugitive from civil justice.
He had a police record in nearly every country in Europe. "The matter was hushed up by the authorities of the convent.
Not even my parents knew of it.
But Nikolas met the man afterward, and learned the whole story.
Now he threatens to tell the count if I do not do just as he wishes me to." Tarzan laughed.
You are still but a little girl.
The story that you have told me cannot reflect in any way upon your reputation, and were you not a little girl at heart you would know it.
I learned early to fear men.
First my father, then Nikolas, then the fathers in the convent.
Nearly all my friends fear their husbands-why should I not fear mine?" "It does not seem right that women should fear men," said Tarzan, an expression of puzzlement on his face.
I am better acquainted with the jungle folk, and there it is more often the other way around, except among the black men, and they to my mind are in most ways lower in the scale than the beasts.
No, I cannot understand why civilized women should fear men, the beings that are created to protect them.
I should hate to think that any woman feared me." "I do not think that any woman would fear you, my friend," said Olga de Coude softly.
I wondered at the ease with which you handled Nikolas and Paulvitch that night in my cabin.
How dare you say such a thing to me-your sister!" "Well, my dear Olga, if he is not your lover, accept my apologies; but it is no fault of yours that he is not.
Had he one-tenth the knowledge of women that I have you would be in his arms this minute.
He is a stupid fool, Olga.
Why, your every word and act was an open invitation to him, and he had not the sense to see it." The woman put her hands to her ears. "I will not listen.
You are wicked to say such things as that.
No matter what you may threaten me with, you know that I am a good woman. After tonight you will not dare to annoy me, for I shall tell Raoul all.
He will understand, and then, Monsieur Nikolas, beware!" "You shall tell him nothing," said Rokoff.
The other affair served its purpose well-we now have something tangible to work on, Olga.
A real _affair_-and you a trusted wife.
Shame, Olga," and the brute laughed. So the countess told her count nothing, and matters were worse than they had been.
From a vague fear her mind was transferred to a very tangible one.
It may be, too, that conscience helped to enlarge it out of all proportion. Chapter V The Plot That Failed For a month Tarzan was a regular and very welcome devotee at the shrine of the beautiful Countess de Coude.
Often he met other members of the select little coterie that dropped in for tea of an afternoon.
More often Olga found devices that would give her an hour of Tarzan alone. For a time she had been frightened by what Nikolas had insinuated.
She did not wish to love him, nor did she wish his love. She was much younger than her husband, and without having realized it she had been craving the haven of a friendship with one nearer her own age.
Twenty is shy in exchanging confidences with forty.
Tarzan was but two years her senior.
He could understand her, she felt.
Then he was clean and honorable and chivalrous.
She was not afraid of him.
That she could trust him she had felt instinctively from the first. From a distance Rokoff had watched this growing intimacy with malicious glee.
Ever since he had learned that Tarzan knew that he was a Russian spy there had been added to his hatred for the ape-man a great fear that he would expose him.
He was but waiting now until the moment was propitious for a master stroke.
He enjoyed the pleasant social intercourse with Olga's friends, while the friendship which had sprung up between the fair countess and himself was a source of never-ending delight.
It broke in upon and dispersed his gloomy thoughts, and served as a balm to his lacerated heart. Sometimes D'Arnot accompanied him on his visits to the De Coude home, for he had long known both Olga and the count.
At length they were rewarded.
A morning paper made brief mention of a smoker that was to be given on the following evening by the German minister.
De Coude's name was among those of the invited guests.
He had not long to wait before De Coude descended from his car and passed him.
Paulvitch hastened back to his quarters, where Rokoff awaited him.
Shall I tell madame that monsieur will be here shortly? "Thank you, monsieur.
The good God will bless you." Paulvitch hung up the receiver and turned to grin at Rokoff. "It will take him thirty minutes to get there.
If you reach the German minister's in fifteen, De Coude should arrive at his home in about forty-five minutes.
Here is the note for De Coude.
Hasten!" Paulvitch lost no time in reaching the German minister's.
At the door he handed the note to a footman.
This is for the Count de Coude.
You must see that it is placed in his hands at once," and he dropped a piece of silver into the willing hand of the servant.
Then he returned to his quarters. A moment later De Coude was apologizing to his host as he tore open the envelope.
If you go at once to your countess' boudoir you will find them together. A FRIEND. Twenty minutes after Paulvitch had called Tarzan, Rokoff obtained a connection with Olga's private line.
Her maid answered the telephone which was in the countess' boudoir. "But madame has retired," said the maid, in answer to Rokoff's request to speak with her. "This is a very urgent message for the countess' ears alone," replied Rokoff.
Tell her that she must arise and slip something about her and come to the telephone.
I shall call up again in five minutes.
Then he hung up his receiver.
A moment later Paulvitch entered. "The count has the message?" asked Rokoff. "He should be on his way to his home by now," replied Paulvitch. "Good!
My lady will be sitting in her boudoir, very much in negligee, about now.
In a minute the faithful Jacques will escort Monsieur Tarzan into her presence without announcing him.
It will take a few minutes for explanations.
Olga will look very alluring in the filmy creation that is her night-dress, and the clinging robe which but half conceals the charms that the former does not conceal at all.
Olga will be surprised, but not displeased. "If there is a drop of red blood in the man the count will break in upon a very pretty love scene in about fifteen minutes from now.
I think we have planned marvelously, my dear Alexis.
In another moment he had opened a door, and, drawing aside a heavy curtain, obsequiously bowed Tarzan into a dimly lighted apartment.
Then Jacques vanished. Across the room from him Tarzan saw Olga seated before a little desk on which stood her telephone.
She was tapping impatiently upon the polished surface of the desk.
She had not heard him enter. "Olga," he said, "what is wrong?" She turned toward him with a little cry of alarm. "Jean!" she cried.
What are you doing here?
He spoke as though I should recall the fact." "There is no one by that name in my employ.
Some one has played a joke upon you, Jean," and Olga laughed. "I fear that it may be a most sinister 'joke,' Olga," he replied. "There is more back of it than humor." "What do you mean?
You do not think that-" "Where is the count?" he interrupted. "At the German ambassador's." "This is another move by your estimable brother.
Tomorrow the count will hear of it.
He will question the servants.
Everything will point to-to what Rokoff wishes the count to think." "The scoundrel!" cried Olga.
She had arisen, and come close to Tarzan, where she stood looking up into his face.
In her eyes was an expression that the hunter sees in those of a poor, terrified doe-puzzled-questioning.
She trembled, and to steady herself raised her hands to his broad shoulders.
What shall we do, Jean?" she whispered.
Tomorrow all Paris will read of it-he will see to that." Her look, her attitude, her words were eloquent of the age-old appeal of defenseless woman to her natural protector-man.
Tarzan took one of the warm little hands that lay on his breast in his own strong one.
The act was quite involuntary, and almost equally so was the instinct of protection that threw a sheltering arm around the girl's shoulders. The result was electrical.
Never before had he been so close to her.
In startled guilt they looked suddenly into each other's eyes, and where Olga de Coude should have been strong she was weak, for she crept closer into the man's arms, and clasped her own about his neck.
And Tarzan of the Apes?
He took the panting figure into his mighty arms, and covered the hot lips with kisses. Raoul de Coude made hurried excuses to his host after he had read the note handed him by the ambassador's butler.
Never afterward could he recall the nature of the excuses he made.
Everything was quite a blur to him up to the time that he stood on the threshold of his own home. Then he became very cool, moving quietly and with caution.
For some inexplicable reason Jacques had the door open before he was halfway to the steps.
It did not strike him at the time as being unusual, though afterward he remarked it. Very softly he tiptoed up the stairs and along the gallery to the door of his wife's boudoir.
In his hand was a heavy walking stick-in his heart, murder. Olga was the first to see him.
With a horrified shriek she tore herself from Tarzan's arms, and the ape-man turned just in time to ward with his arm a terrific blow that De Coude had aimed at his head.
Once, twice, three times the heavy stick fell with lightning rapidity, and each blow aided in the transition of the ape-man back to the primordial. With the low, guttural snarl of the bull ape he sprang for the Frenchman.
The great stick was torn from his grasp and broken in two as though it had been matchwood, to be flung aside as the now infuriated beast charged for his adversary's throat.
Mother of God!" she cried. "You are killing him, you are killing him!
Oh, Jean, you are killing my husband!" Tarzan was deaf with rage.
Suddenly he hurled the body to the floor, and, placing his foot upon the upturned breast, raised his head.
Then through the palace of the Count de Coude rang the awesome challenge of the bull ape that has made a kill.
Things began to take form-he was regaining the perspective of civilized man.
His eyes fell upon the figure of the kneeling woman.
She looked up, expecting to see the maniacal light of murder in the eyes above her.
Instead she saw sorrow and contrition. "Oh, Jean!" she cried.
See what you have done.
I loved him, and you have killed him." Very gently Tarzan raised the limp form of the Count de Coude and bore it to a couch.
Then he put his ear to the man's breast. "Some brandy, Olga," he said. She brought it, and together they forced it between his lips.
Presently a faint gasp came from the white lips.
The head turned, and De Coude groaned. "He will not die," said Tarzan.
Thank God!" "Why did you do it, Jean?" she asked. "I do not know.
He struck me, and I went mad.
I have seen the apes of my tribe do the same thing.
I have never told you my story, Olga.
It would have been better had you known it-this might not have happened.
I never saw my father.
The only mother I knew was a ferocious she-ape. Until I was fifteen I had never seen a human being.
I was twenty before I saw a white man.
A little more than a year ago I was a naked beast of prey in an African jungle. "Do not judge me too harshly.
Two years is too short a time in which to attempt to work the change in an individual that it has taken countless ages to accomplish in the white race." "I do not judge at all, Jean.
You must go now-he must not find you here when he regains consciousness.
The policeman was genuinely glad to see again the man who had so roughly handled him.
After a moment of conversation Tarzan asked if he had ever heard of Nikolas Rokoff or Alexis Paulvitch. "Very often, indeed, monsieur.
Each has a police record, and while there is nothing charged against them now, we make it a point to know pretty well where they may be found should the occasion demand.
It is only the same precaution that we take with every known criminal.
Why does monsieur ask?" "They are known to me," replied Tarzan.
I wish to see Monsieur Rokoff on a little matter of business.
It should be to kill you, but because you are Olga de Coude's brother I shall not do that-now. "I shall give you a chance for your lives.
Paulvitch does not count much-he is merely a stupid, foolish little tool, and so I shall not kill him so long as I permit you to live.
Before I leave you two alive in this room you will have done two things.
If you do not do both, neither of you will be alive when I pass next through that doorway.
And, without waiting for a reply: "Make haste; there is ink before you, and paper and a pen." Rokoff assumed a truculent air, attempting by bravado to show how little he feared Tarzan's threats.
An instant later he felt the ape-man's steel fingers at his throat, and Paulvitch, who attempted to dodge them and reach the door, was lifted completely off the floor, and hurled senseless into a corner.
When Rokoff commenced to blacken about the face Tarzan released his hold and shoved the fellow back into his chair.
After a moment of coughing Rokoff sat sullenly glaring at the man standing opposite him.
Presently Paulvitch came to himself, and limped painfully back to his chair at Tarzan's command. "Now write," said the ape-man.
Enter," said Tarzan. A dapper young man came in. "I am from the _Matin_," he announced.
I understand that Monsieur Rokoff has a story for me." "Then you are mistaken, monsieur," replied Tarzan.
Tarzan did not disturb him, but the following morning he narrated the happenings of the previous evening, omitting not a single detail. "What a fool I have been," he concluded.
De Coude and his wife were both my friends.
How have I returned their friendship?
Barely did I escape murdering the count.
I have cast a stigma on the name of a good woman.
I will but continue to stumble into more and more serious pitfalls.
The man-made restrictions are irksome.
I feel always that I am a prisoner.
You have acquitted yourself much better than most 'civilized' men would have under similar circumstances.
As to leaving Paris at this time, I rather think that Raoul de Coude may be expected to have something to say on that subject before long." Nor was D'Arnot mistaken.
A week later on Monsieur Flaubert was announced about eleven in the morning, as D'Arnot and Tarzan were breakfasting.
Monsieur Flaubert was an impressively polite gentleman. With many low bows he delivered Monsieur le Count de Coude's challenge to Monsieur Tarzan.
Would monsieur be so very kind as to arrange to have a friend meet Monsieur Flaubert at as early an hour as convenient, that the details might be arranged to the mutual satisfaction of all concerned? Certainly.
Monsieur Tarzan would be delighted to place his interests unreservedly in the hands of his friend, Lieutenant D'Arnot.
I am progressing rapidly in the ways of my civilized brothers." "What weapons shall you select?" asked D'Arnot.
De Coude is accredited with being a master with the sword, and a splendid shot." "I might then choose poisoned arrows at twenty paces, or spears at the same distance," laughed Tarzan.
Make it pistols, Paul." "He will kill you, Jean." "I have no doubt of it," replied Tarzan.
I must die some day." "We had better make it swords," said D'Arnot.
Tomorrow morning at daylight-there is a secluded spot on the road not far from Etamps.
For some personal reason Monsieur Flaubert preferred it.
I did not demur." "Good!" was Tarzan's only comment.
He did not refer to the matter again even indirectly.
That night he wrote several letters before he retired. After sealing and addressing them he placed them all in an envelope addressed to D'Arnot.
As he undressed D'Arnot heard him humming a music-hall ditty. The Frenchman swore under his breath.
He was very unhappy, for he was positive that when the sun rose the next morning it would look down upon a dead Tarzan.
He had slept well, and so it seemed that his head scarcely touched the pillow ere his man deferentially aroused him.
His remark was addressed to D'Arnot, who stood fully dressed in the doorway of Tarzan's bedroom. D'Arnot had scarcely slept at all during the night.
He was nervous, and therefore inclined to be irritable. "I presume you slept like a baby all night," he said. Tarzan laughed.
From your tone, Paul, I infer that you rather harbor the fact against me.
I could not help it, really." "No, Jean; it is not that," replied D'Arnot, himself smiling.
But you take the entire matter with such infernal indifference-it is exasperating.
One would think that you were going out to shoot at a target, rather than to face one of the best shots in France." Tarzan shrugged his shoulders.
I am going out to expiate a great wrong, Paul.
A very necessary feature of the expiation is the marksmanship of my opponent.
Each man was occupied with his own thoughts.
D'Arnot's were very mournful, for he was genuinely fond of Tarzan.
They could understand one another, and each could be proud of the friendship of the other. Tarzan of the Apes was wrapped in thoughts of the past; pleasant memories of the happier occasions of his lost jungle life.
Tarzan's mind returned to the affairs of the moment.
He knew that he was about to die, but there was no fear of death in him.
To a denizen of the cruel jungle death is a commonplace.
The first law of nature compels them to cling tenaciously to life-to fight for it; but it does not teach them to fear death. D'Arnot and Tarzan were first upon the field of honor.
A moment later De Coude, Monsieur Flaubert, and a third gentleman arrived.
The last was introduced to D'Arnot and Tarzan; he was a physician. D'Arnot and Monsieur Flaubert spoke together in whispers for a brief time.
The Count de Coude and Tarzan stood apart at opposite sides of the field.
Presently the seconds summoned them.
D'Arnot and Monsieur Flaubert had examined both pistols.
The two men who were to face each other a moment later stood silently while Monsieur Flaubert recited the conditions they were to observe. They were to stand back to back.
At a signal from Monsieur Flaubert they were to walk in opposite directions, their pistols hanging by their sides.
Monsieur Flaubert gave the signal.
He and D'Arnot stepped back a few paces to be out of the line of fire as the men paced slowly apart.
There were tears in D'Arnot's eyes.
He loved Tarzan very much.
Another pace, and the poor lieutenant gave the signal he so hated to give.
To him it sounded the doom of his best friend. Quickly De Coude wheeled and fired.
Tarzan gave a little start.
His pistol still dangled at his side.
De Coude hesitated, as though waiting to see his antagonist crumple to the ground.
The Frenchman was too experienced a marksman not to know that he had scored a hit.
Still Tarzan made no move to raise his pistol.
Then he would take his own time about shooting De Coude down deliberately, coolly, and in cold blood.
A little shiver ran up the Frenchman's spine.
On Tarzan's face was a pathetic expression of disappointment.
On De Coude's a rapidly growing expression of horror-yes, of terror. He could endure it no longer. "Mother of God!
Monsieur-shoot!" he screamed. But Tarzan did not raise his pistol.
Tarzan advanced until he was quite close to De Coude. "There must have been something wrong with monsieur's pistol," he said. "Or monsieur is unstrung.
Take mine, monsieur, and try again," and Tarzan offered his pistol, butt foremost, to the astonished De Coude. "_Mon Dieu_, monsieur!" cried the latter.
Are you mad?" "No, my friend," replied the ape-man; "but I deserve to die.
It is the only way in which I may atone for the wrong I have done a very good woman.
Take my pistol and do as I bid." "It would be murder," replied De Coude.
But what wrong did you do my wife?
She swore to me that-" "I do not mean that," said Tarzan quickly.
You saw all the wrong that passed between us.
But that was enough to cast a shadow upon her name, and to ruin the happiness of a man against whom I had no enmity.
The fault was all mine, and so I hoped to die for it this morning.
I am disappointed that monsieur is not so wonderful a marksman as I had been led to believe." "You say that the fault was all yours?" asked De Coude eagerly. "All mine, monsieur.
Your wife is a very pure woman.
The fault that you saw was all mine.
The thing that brought me there was no fault of either the Countess de Coude or myself.
Here is a paper which will quite positively demonstrate that," and Tarzan drew from his pocket the statement Rokoff had written and signed. De Coude took it and read.
D'Arnot and Monsieur Flaubert had drawn near.
They were interested spectators of this strange ending of a strange duel.
None spoke until De Coude had quite finished, then he looked up at Tarzan. "You are a very brave and chivalrous gentleman," he said.
I thank God that I did not kill you." De Coude was a Frenchman.
He threw his arms about Tarzan and embraced him.
Monsieur Flaubert embraced D'Arnot. There was no one to embrace the doctor.
So possibly it was pique which prompted him to interfere, and demand that he be permitted to dress Tarzan's wounds. "This gentleman was hit once at least," he said.
Possibly thrice." "Twice," said Tarzan.
Once in the left shoulder, and again in the left side-both flesh wounds, I think.
De Coude was so relieved to have had this double assurance of his wife's loyalty that he felt no rancor at all toward Tarzan.
To lie abed because of a pin prick! Why, when Bolgani, the king gorilla, tore me almost to pieces, while I was still but a little boy, did I have a nice soft bed to lie on?
No, only the damp, rotting vegetation of the jungle.
There was no sterilized gauze, there was no antiseptic bandage-there was nothing that would not have driven our dear doctor mad to have seen.
Neither had ever mentioned the duel or the cause of it since that morning upon the field of honor. "I think that I have found just the thing for you, Monsieur Tarzan," said the count.
It is a position of much trust and responsibility, which also requires considerably physical courage and prowess.
I cannot imagine a man better fitted than you, my dear Monsieur Tarzan, for this very position.
It will necessitate travel, and later it may lead to a very much better post-possibly in the diplomatic service. "At first, for a short time only, you will be a special agent in the service of the ministry of war.
Come, I will take you to the gentleman who will be your chief.
At last he was to be of some value in the world.
He was to earn money, and, best of all, to travel and see the world. He could scarcely wait to get well inside D'Arnot's sitting room before he burst out with the glad tidings.
D'Arnot was not so pleased. "It seems to delight you to think that you are to leave Paris, and that we shall not see each other for months, perhaps.
Tarzan, you are a most ungrateful beast!" and D'Arnot laughed. "No, Paul; I am a little child.
There was a certain lieutenant of _spahis_ whom the government had reason to suspect of improper relations with a great European power.
This Lieutenant Gernois, who was at present stationed at Sidi-bel-Abbes, had recently been attached to the general staff, where certain information of great military value had come into his possession in the ordinary routine of his duties.
But general staffs are jealous of their secrets, and treason so serious a thing that even a hint of it may not be safely neglected.
At Oran he spent a day wandering through the narrow, crooked alleys of the Arab quarter enjoying the strange, new sights.
He met Gernois, whom he found to be a taciturn, dyspeptic-looking man of about forty, having little or no social intercourse with his fellows. For a month nothing of moment occurred.
Gernois apparently had no visitors, nor did he on his occasional visits to the town hold communication with any who might even by the wildest flight of imagination be construed into secret agents of a foreign power.
He could not be mistaken, for there was the same strangely familiar attitude and figure, though the man's back was toward him. As his eyes lingered on the two, Gernois looked up and caught the intent expression on Tarzan's face.
He did not overtake them until he reached Sidi Aissa shortly after noon, where the soldiers had halted for an hour's rest.
Thus it was that the company of _spahis_ marched on that afternoon toward Bou Saada without him.
Through Abdul, Tarzan invited his new acquaintance to dine with him.
He has been following us about all afternoon," continued Abdul. "I caught only a glimpse of an Arab in a dark-blue burnoose and white turban," replied Tarzan.
Is it he you mean?" "Yes.
He must be a bad man, or he would have honest business of his own to occupy his time." "He is on the wrong scent then, Abdul," replied Tarzan, "for no one here can have any grievance against me.
This is my first visit to your country, and none knows me.
It was after eight, and the dancing was in full swing as Tarzan entered.
The room was filled to repletion with Arabs.
Then the Arabs melted through the doorway into the darkness of the court. When it came again the girl's turn to dance she hovered close to Tarzan, and for the ape-man alone were her sweetest smiles.
Many an ugly scowl was cast upon the tall European by swarthy, dark-eyed sons of the desert, but neither smiles nor scowls produced any outwardly visible effect upon him.
Again the girl cast her handkerchief upon his shoulder, and again was she rewarded with a franc piece.
At first I promised to lure you to them, but you have been kind, and I cannot do it.
Go quickly, before they find that I have failed them.
I think that they are very bad men." Tarzan thanked the girl, assuring her that he would be careful, and, having finished her dance, she crossed to the little doorway and went out into the court.
He is not alone. In fact, in case of a disturbance, nearly every man here would be against you.
It would be better to leave quietly, master." "Ask the fellow what he wants," commanded Tarzan. "He says that 'the dog of a Christian' insulted the Ouled-Nail, who belongs to him.
He means trouble, m'sieur." "Tell him that I did not insult his or any other Ouled-Nail, that I wish him to go away and leave me alone.
With cries of "Kill the unbeliever!" and "Down with the dog of a Christian!" they made straight for Tarzan.
A number of the younger Arabs in the audience sprang to their feet to join in the assault upon the unarmed white man.
Tarzan and Abdul were rushed back toward the end of the room by the very force of numbers opposing them.
The young Arab remained loyal to his master, and with drawn knife fought at his side. With tremendous blows the ape-man felled all who came within reach of his powerful hands.
He fought quietly and without a word, upon his lips the same half smile they had worn as he rose to strike down the man who had insulted him.
It seemed impossible that either he or Abdul could survive the sea of wicked-looking swords and knives that surrounded them, but the very numbers of their assailants proved the best bulwark of their safety.
With a quick wrench he disarmed the fellow, and then, holding him before them as a shield, he backed slowly beside Abdul toward the little door which led into the inner courtyard.
Tarzan leaped to meet these two new assailants.
Tarzan was close beside her.
They must not find you, for, though you fight with the strength of many men, they will kill you in the end.
Hasten; you can drop from the farther window of my room to the street beyond.
Before they discover that you are no longer in the court of the buildings you will be safe within the hotel." But even as she spoke, several men had started up the stairway at the head of which they stood.
There was a sudden cry from one of the searchers.
Quickly the crowd rushed for the stairway.
The foremost assailant leaped quickly upward, but at the top he met the sudden sword that he had not expected-the quarry had been unarmed before. With a cry, the man toppled back upon those behind him.
Like tenpins they rolled down the stairs.
The ancient and rickety structure could not withstand the strain of this unwonted weight and jarring.
With a creaking and rending of breaking wood it collapsed beneath the Arabs, leaving Tarzan, Abdul, and the girl alone upon the frail platform at the top. "Come!" cried the Ouled-Nail.
They will reach us from another stairway through the room next to mine.
Have I not aided you?" This put a different aspect on the matter.
Tarzan had rather been enjoying the excitement and danger of the encounter.
He had not for an instant supposed that either Abdul or the girl could suffer except through accident, and he had only retreated just enough to keep from being killed himself.
Now he must think entirely of these two faithful friends. He crossed to the window which overlooked the street.
In a minute there would be enemies below.
Already he could hear the mob clambering the stairway to the next quarters-they would be at the door beside him in another instant.
He put a foot upon the sill and leaned out, but he did not look down.
Above him, within arm's reach, was the low roof of the building.
He called to the girl.
She came and stood beside him.
Then he stepped to the sill of the narrow window with the girl upon his shoulders.
Hold tight," he cautioned her.
A moment later he had clambered to the roof above with the ease and dexterity of an ape.
Setting the girl down, he leaned far over the roof's edge, calling softly to Abdul.
The youth ran to the window. "Your hand," whispered Tarzan.
The men in the room beyond were battering at the door.
With a sudden crash it fell splintering in, and at the same instant Abdul felt himself lifted like a feather onto the roof above.
Abdul translated from time to time to Tarzan. "They are berating those in the street below now," said Abdul, "for permitting us to escape so easily.
Those in the street say that we did not come that way-that we are still within the building, and that those above, being too cowardly to attack us, are attempting to deceive them into believing that we have escaped.
A few remained in the street below, smoking and talking. Tarzan spoke to the girl, thanking her for the sacrifice she had made for him, a total stranger. "I liked you," she said simply.
You did not speak coarsely to me-the manner in which you gave me money was not an insult." "What shall you do after tonight?" he asked.
Can you even remain with safety in Sidi Aissa?" "Tomorrow it will be forgotten," she replied.
I have not remained because I wished to; I have been a prisoner." "A prisoner!" ejaculated Tarzan incredulously. "A slave would be the better word," she answered.
I was stolen in the night from my father's _douar_ by a band of marauders.
It has been nearly two years now since I saw the last of mine own people.
They are very far to the south.
They never come to Sidi Aissa." "You would like to return to your people?" asked Tarzan.
Then I shall promise to see you safely so far as Bou Saada at least.
There we can doubtless arrange with the commandant to send you the rest of the way." "Oh, m'sieur," she cried, "how can I ever repay you!
You cannot really mean that you will do so much for a poor Ouled-Nail.
But my father can reward you, and he will, for is he not a great sheik?
He is Kadour ben Saden." "Kadour ben Saden!" ejaculated Tarzan.
Why, Kadour ben Saden is in Sidi Aissa this very night.
He dined with me but a few hours since." "My father in Sidi Aissa?" cried the amazed girl.
Allah be praised then, for I am indeed saved." "Hssh!" cautioned Abdul.
Listen." From below came the sound of voices, quite distinguishable upon the still night air.
Tarzan could not understand the words, but Abdul and the girl translated. "They have gone now," said the latter.
Cautiously Tarzan lowered himself to the sill of the girl's window.
I have heard much about him." "And you come to the _douar_ of my father you shall see him," said the girl.
He lives in a spur of the mountains north of us, and comes down from his lair at night to rob my father's _douar_.
With a single blow of his mighty paw he crushes the skull of a bull, and woe betide the belated wayfarer who meets _el Adrea_ abroad at night." Without further mishap they reached the hotel.
The old sheik entered the room with a questioning expression upon his proud face. "Monsieur has done me the honor to-" he commenced, and then his eyes fell upon the girl.
With outstretched arms he crossed the room to meet her.
For a few miles the road was good, and they made rapid progress, but suddenly it became only a waste of sand, into which the horses sank fetlock deep at nearly every step.
In addition to Tarzan, Abdul, the sheik, and his daughter were four of the wild plainsmen of the sheik's tribe who had accompanied him upon the trip to Sidi Aissa.
What little he could see of the surrounding country was far from alluring-a vast expanse of rough country, rolling in little, barren hillocks, and tufted here and there with clumps of dreary shrub.
Far to the south rose the dim lines of the Saharan Atlas range.
How different, thought Tarzan, from the gorgeous Africa of his boyhood! Abdul, always on the alert, looked backward quite as often as he did ahead.
At the top of each hillock that they mounted he would draw in his horse and, turning, scan the country to the rear with utmost care. At last his scrutiny was rewarded. "Look!" he cried.
There are six horsemen behind us." "Your friends of last evening, no doubt, monsieur," remarked Kadour ben Saden dryly to Tarzan. "No doubt," replied the ape-man.
I am sorry that my society should endanger the safety of your journey.
At the next village I shall remain and question these gentlemen, while you ride on.
There is no necessity for my being at Bou Saada tonight, and less still why you should not ride in peace." "If you stop we shall stop," said Kadour ben Saden.
Until you are safe with your friends, or the enemy has left your trail, we shall remain with you.
There is nothing more to say." Tarzan nodded his head.
They remained always at about the same distance.
During the occasional halts for rest, and at the longer halt at noon, they approached no closer. "They are waiting for darkness," said Kadour ben Saden. And darkness came before they reached Bou Saada.
He whispered this fact to Tarzan, for he did not wish to alarm the girl.
The ape-man drew back beside him. "You will ride ahead with the others, Abdul," said Tarzan.
I shall wait at the next convenient spot, and interview these fellows." "Then Abdul shall wait at thy side," replied the young Arab, nor would any threats or commands move him from his decision. "Very well, then," replied Tarzan.
Here is as good a place as we could wish.
Here are rocks at the top of this hillock.
We shall remain hidden here and give an account of ourselves to these gentlemen when they appear." They drew in their horses and dismounted.
The others riding ahead were already out of sight in the darkness.
Beyond them shone the lights of Bou Saada.
Tarzan removed his rifle from its boot and loosened his revolver in its holster.
He ordered Abdul to withdraw behind the rocks with the horses, so that they should be shielded from the enemies' bullets should they fire.
Nor did he have long to wait.
Then came the sound of a whispered council, and like ghosts the phantom riders dispersed in all directions.
Again the desert lay still about him, yet it was an ominous stillness that foreboded evil. Abdul raised himself to one knee.
Tarzan cocked his jungle-trained ears, and presently there came to him the sound of horses walking quietly through the sand to the east of him, to the west, to the north, and to the south.
Abdul and Tarzan fired only at the flashes-they could not yet see their foemen.
Both Tarzan and Abdul sprang to the shelter of the rocks, that they might keep the enemy in front of them.
Tarzan could not tell whether the Arabs, satisfied with their losses, had given up the fight, or were waiting farther along the road to waylay them as they proceeded on toward Bou Saada.
But he was not left long in doubt, for now all from one direction came the sound of a new charge.
But scarcely had the first gun spoken ere a dozen shots rang out behind the Arabs.
There came the wild shouts of a new party to the controversy, and the pounding of the feet of many horses from down the road to Bou Saada. The Arabs did not wait to learn the identity of the oncomers.
With a parting volley as they dashed by the position which Tarzan and Abdul were holding, they plunged off along the road toward Sidi Aissa.
A moment later Kadour ben Saden and his men dashed up. The old sheik was much relieved to find that neither Tarzan nor Abdul had received a scratch.
Not even had their horses been wounded.
It was to prevent the transfer of my own quarrel to another's shoulders that Abdul and I stopped off to question them.
Then there is your daughter-I could not be the cause of exposing her needlessly to the marksmanship of six men." Kadour ben Saden shrugged his shoulders.
He did not relish having been cheated out of a fight. The little battle so close to Bou Saada had drawn out a company of soldiers.
Tarzan and his party met them just outside the town.
The officer in charge halted them to learn the significance of the shots. "A handful of marauders," replied Kadour ben Saden.
They attacked two of our number who had dropped behind, but when we returned to them the fellows soon dispersed.
He was keenly interested in this race of stern and dignified warriors, and embraced the opportunity which their friendship offered to learn what he could of their lives and customs.
He even commenced to acquire the rudiments of their language under the pleasant tutorage of the brown-eyed girl.
Their wild, rough lives, filled with danger and hardship, appealed to this half-savage man as nothing had appealed to him in the midst of the effeminate civilization of the great cities he had visited.
Here was a life that excelled even that of the jungle, for here he might have the society of men-real men whom he could honor and respect, and yet be near to the wild nature that he loved.
As you stand in the barroom you may look into either of the dining-rooms if you wish. It was to the bar that Tarzan repaired after speeding Kadour ben Saden and his party on their way.
Lieutenant Gernois was sitting there, and as Tarzan looked a white-robed Arab approached and, bending, whispered a few words into the lieutenant's ear.
It opened the old wound that Tarzan would have been glad to have forgotten; yet he was not sorry that D'Arnot had written, for one at least of his subjects could never cease to interest the ape-man.
Here is the letter: MY DEAR JEAN: Since last I wrote you I have been across to London on a matter of business.
I was there but three days.
The very first day I came upon an old friend of yours-quite unexpectedly-in Henrietta Street.
Now you never in the world would guess whom.
None other than Mr. Samuel T. Philander.
I can see your look of incredulity.
He insisted that I return to the hotel with him, and there I found the others-Professor Archimedes Q.
On account of his father's death it is to be a very quiet affair-only blood relatives. While I was alone with Mr. Philander the old fellow became rather confidential.
Said Miss Porter had already postponed the wedding on three different occasions.
I am afraid I took a rather unchivalrous delight in picturing your desire and resolve to go back eventually to your native jungle.
I was sorry afterward, for it did seem to cause her real anguish to contemplate the awful dangers to which you wished to return.
And yet," she said, "I do not know.
There are more unhappy fates than the grim and terrible jungle presents to Monsieur Tarzan.
At least his conscience will be free from remorse.
And there are moments of quiet and restfulness by day, and vistas of exquisite beauty.
He wore a worried and harassed expression.
Yet he was very kindly in his expressions of interest in you.
I wonder if he suspects the truth about you? Tennington came in with Clayton.
They are great friends, you know.
He is about to set out upon one of his interminable cruises in that yacht of his, and was urging the entire party to accompany him.
Tried to inveigle me into it, too.
Is thinking of circumnavigating Africa this time.
De Coude really seems quite fond of you.
Doesn't appear to harbor the least ill will.
Olga is as beautiful as ever, but a trifle subdued.
I imagine that she learned a lesson through her acquaintance with you that will serve her in good stead during the balance of her life.
She paid him twenty thousand francs to go away, and stay.
It never for a moment seemed to occur to her that there might be any possibility of any other outcome of a meeting between you and Nikolas.
The count quite agreed with her in that.
He added that it would take a regiment of Rokoffs to kill you.
He has a most healthy respect for your prowess. Have been ordered back to my ship.
She sails from Havre in two days under sealed orders.
If you will address me in her care, the letters will find me eventually.
Tarzan derived a rather pathetic happiness from it, but it was better than no happiness at all. The following three weeks were quite uneventful.
His attitude on the few occasions that they had been thrown together had been distinctly hostile. That he might keep up the appearance of the character he was playing, Tarzan spent considerable time hunting in the vicinity of Bou Saada.
The ape-man could see no sport in slaughtering the most harmless and defenseless of God's creatures for the mere pleasure of killing. In fact, Tarzan had never killed for "pleasure," nor to him was there pleasure in killing.
It was the joy of righteous battle that he loved-the ecstasy of victory.
Tarzan would have none of it, and so he hunted alone that none might discover the sham that he was practicing. And once, probably because of the fact that he rode alone, he was like to have lost his life.
He was riding slowly through a little ravine when a shot sounded close behind him, and a bullet passed through the cork helmet he wore.
I think I shall move on farther south, and have a try at some of your Algerian lions." "Good!" exclaimed the captain.
We are marching toward Djelfa on the morrow.
You shall have company that far at least.
Lieutenant Gernois and I, with a hundred men, are ordered south to patrol a district in which the marauders are giving considerable trouble.
Gernois was sitting opposite the ape-man.
He did not seem so pleased with his captain's invitation. "You will find lion hunting more exciting than gazelle shooting," remarked Captain Gerard, "and more dangerous." "Even gazelle shooting has its dangers," replied Tarzan.
Especially when one goes alone.
I found it so today.
The effect of his remark upon him, however, might tend to prove his connection with, or knowledge of, certain recent happenings.
Tarzan saw a dull red creep up from beneath Gernois' collar.
So his suspicions were aroused, and he decided to keep a sharp eye on the little party that trailed behind the column at a distance of about a quarter of a mile.
Whether it was to be revenge for the several occasions in the past that Tarzan had defeated the Russian's purposes and humiliated him, or was in some way connected with his mission in the Gernois affair, he could not determine.
Tarzan made casual inquiries among the men, but none could tell him why they had left, or in what direction they had gone.
He did not like the looks of it, especially in view of the fact that he had seen Gernois in conversation with one of them some half hour after Captain Gerard had issued his instructions relative to the new move.
Only Gernois and Tarzan knew the direction of the proposed march.
All the soldiers knew was that they were to be prepared to break camp early the next morning.
The Arabs came out of their goatskin tents, and surrounded the soldiers, asking many questions in the native tongue, for the soldiers were themselves natives.
There were other oases scattered about-possibly they had been journeying to one of these.
Then there were the marauders in the mountains above-they often rode north to Bou Saada in small parties, and even as far as Aumale and Bouira.
Or maybe it is that monsieur does not care to hunt marauders?" "Oh, I shall be delighted to go," Tarzan hastened to explain.
He was wondering what excuse he could make to accompany Gernois.
His embarrassment was short-lived, and was relieved from a most unexpected source.
No sooner had they ridden out of sight of Captain Gerard and his men than he lapsed once more into his accustomed taciturnity.
As they advanced the ground became rougher.
By the side of a little rivulet Gernois called the midday halt.
Monsieur will be so good as to remain here until we return." Tarzan demurred, but the officer cut him short.
It is what I came for." "I should be glad to think so," retorted Gernois, with a sneer he made no attempt to disguise.
Then shortly: "You are under my orders, and they are that you remain here until we return.
Let that end the matter," and he turned and spurred away at the head of his men.
Inwardly he swore at Gernois for the trick he had played upon him.
A mean little revenge, thought Tarzan, and then suddenly it occurred to him that the man would not be such a fool as to antagonize him through a trivial annoyance of so petty a description.
There must be something deeper than this behind it.
With the thought he arose and removed his rifle from its boot.
He looked to its loads and saw that the magazine was full.
Then he inspected his revolver.
After this preliminary precaution he scanned the surrounding heights and the mouths of the several gorges-he was determined that he should not be caught napping. The sun sank lower and lower, yet there was no sign of returning SPAHIS.
At last the valley was submerged in shadow Tarzan was too proud to go back to camp until he had given the detachment ample time to return to the valley, which he thought was to have been their rendezvous.
With the closing in of night he felt safer from attack, for he was at home in the dark.
A little thrill of joy tingled through Tarzan's nerves.
It was like meeting an old friend after years of separation.
For a moment he sat rigid to enjoy the magnificent spectacle of this lord of the wilderness. But now Numa was crouching for the spring.
Very slowly Tarzan raised his gun to his shoulder.
He had never killed a large animal with a gun in all his life-heretofore he had depended upon his spear, his poisoned arrows, his rope, his knife, or his bare hands.
Instinctively he wished that he had his arrows and his knife-he would have felt surer with them. Numa was lying quite flat upon the ground now, presenting only his head.
Tarzan would have preferred to fire a little from one side, for he knew what terrific damage the lion could do if he lived two minutes, or even a minute after he was hit.
The horse stood trembling in terror at Tarzan's back.
The ape-man took a cautious step to one side-Numa but followed him with his eyes.
Another step he took, and then another. Numa had not moved.
Now he could aim at a point between the eye and the ear. His finger tightened upon the trigger, and as he fired Numa sprang.
From earliest childhood his muscles had been trained by the fierce exigencies of his existence to act with the rapidity of thought.
For a moment they scanned the little depression from behind sheltering bowlders, but when they had satisfied themselves that it was empty they advanced across it.
Beneath the tree at one side they came upon the body of _el adrea_.
The solitude and the savage freedom filled his heart with life and buoyancy.
Many he intuitively sensed-ah, there was one that was familiar indeed; the distant coughing of Sheeta, the leopard; but there was a strange note in the final wail which made him doubt.
It was a panther he heard. Presently a new sound-a soft, stealthy sound-obtruded itself among the others.
No human ears other than the ape-man's would have detected it. At first he did not translate it, but finally he realized that it came from the bare feet of a number of human beings.
They were behind him, and they were coming toward him quietly.
He was being stalked. In a flash he knew why he had been left in that little valley by Gernois; but there had been a hitch in the arrangements-the men had come too late.
Closer and closer came the footsteps.
Tarzan halted and faced them, his rifle ready in his hand.
Now he caught a fleeting glimpse of a white burnoose.
He called aloud in French, asking what they would of him.
Then they came rapidly from their concealment, and bent over him.
It was soon apparent that he was not dead.
One of the men put the muzzle of his gun to the back of Tarzan's head to finish him, but another waved him aside.
If we bring him alive the reward is to be greater," explained the latter.
So they bound his hands and feet, and, picking him up, placed him on the shoulders of four of their number.
Tarzan, who had regained consciousness, was tied to a spare horse, which they evidently had brought for the purpose.
His wound was but a slight scratch, which had furrowed the flesh across his temple.
It had stopped bleeding, but the dried and clotted blood smeared his face and clothing.
About noon they came to a _douar_ of about twenty tents.
Here they halted, and as one of the Arabs was releasing the alfa-grass ropes which bound him to his mount they were surrounded by a mob of men, women, and children.
There was a nasty smile on the bearded lips.
Ah, Monsieur Tarzan," he said, "this is indeed a pleasure.
But why do you not rise and greet your guest?
Then, with an ugly oath, "Get up, you dog!" and, drawing back his booted foot, he kicked Tarzan heavily in the side.
And here is another, and another, and another," he continued, as he kicked Tarzan about the face and side.
One for each of the injuries you have done me." The ape-man made no reply-he did not even deign to look upon the Russian again after the first glance of recognition.
Finally the sheik, who had been standing a mute and frowning witness of the cowardly attack, intervened. "Stop!" he commanded.
Kill him if you will, but I will see no brave man subjected to such indignities in my presence.
When he leaves here he leaves alive.
Then I shall have to wait until the morrow-it is already dark." "As you will," said the sheik.
But by an hour after dawn you must be gone from my _douar_.
Together they left the tent.
How much safer one was, he soliloquized, in the haunts of wild beasts than in the haunts of men.
Never in all his jungle life had he been more relentlessly tracked down than in the past few months of his experience among civilized men. Never had he been any nearer death. Again the lion roared.
It sounded a little nearer.
Tarzan felt the old, wild impulse to reply with the challenge of his kind.
He had almost forgotten that he was a man and not an ape.
He tugged at his bonds.
God, if he could but get them near those strong teeth of his.
He felt a wild wave of madness sweep over him as his efforts to regain his liberty met with failure. Numa was roaring almost continually now.
It was quite evident that he was coming down into the desert to hunt.
It was the roar of a hungry lion.
Tarzan envied him, for he was free.
No one would tie him with ropes and slaughter him like a sheep.
It was that which galled the ape-man.
He did not fear to die, no-it was the humiliation of defeat before death, without even a chance to battle for his life. It must be near midnight, thought Tarzan.
He had several hours to live. Possibly he would yet find a way to take Rokoff with him on the long journey.
He could hear the savage lord of the desert quite close by now.
Possibly he sought his meat from among the penned animals within the _douar_. For a long time silence reigned, then Tarzan's trained ears caught the sound of a stealthily moving body.
It came from the side of the tent nearest the mountains-the back.
Nearer and nearer it came.
He waited, listening intently, for it to pass.
For a time there was silence without, such a terrible silence that Tarzan was surprised that he did not hear the breathing of the animal he felt sure must be crouching close to the back wall of his tent. There!
Tarzan turns his head in the direction of the sound.
It is very dark within the tent.
Slowly the back rises from the ground, forced up by the head and shoulders of a body that looks all black in the semi-darkness.
Beyond is a faint glimpse of the dimly starlit desert.
A grim smile plays about Tarzan's lips.
At least Rokoff will be cheated.
How mad he will be!
And death will be more merciful than he could have hoped for at the hands of the Russian. Now the back of the tent drops into place, and all is darkness again-whatever it is is inside the tent with him.
He hears it creeping close to him-now it is beside him.
He closes his eyes and waits for the mighty paw.
Upon his upturned face falls the gentle touch of a soft hand groping in the dark, and then a girl's voice in a scarcely audible whisper pronounces his name. "Yes, it is I," he whispers in reply.
But in the name of Heaven who are you?" "The Ouled-Nail of Sisi Aissa," came the answer.
While she spoke Tarzan could feel her working about his bonds.
Occasionally the cold steel of a knife touched his flesh.
A moment later he was free. "Come!" she whispered. On hands and knees he followed her out of the tent by the way she had come.
She continued crawling thus flat to the ground until she reached a little patch of shrub.
There she halted until he gained her side.
For a moment he looked at her before he spoke. "I cannot understand," he said at last.
How did you know that I was a prisoner in that tent?
How does it happen that it is you who have saved me?" She smiled.
I have come a long way tonight," she said, "and we have a long way to go before we shall be out of danger.
And you ran all that risk for a stranger-an alien-an unbeliever?" She drew herself up very proudly. "I am the daughter of the Sheik Kabour ben Saden," she answered.
But how did you know that I was a prisoner back there?" "Achmet-din-Taieb, who is my cousin on my father's side, was visiting some friends who belong to the tribe that captured you.
He was at the _douar_ when you were brought in. When he reached home he was telling us about the big Frenchman who had been captured by Ali-ben-Ahmed for another Frenchman who wished to kill him.
From the description I knew that it must be you.
I tried to persuade some of the men to come and save you, but they would not do it, saying: 'Let the unbelievers kill one another if they wish.
They are tethered not far from here.
By morning we shall be within my father's _douar_.
He should be there himself by now-then let them come and try to take Kadour ben Saden's friend." For a few moments they walked on in silence. "We should be near the horses," she said.
It is strange that I do not see them here." Then a moment later she stopped, with a little cry of consternation. "They are gone!" she exclaimed.
It is here that I tethered them." Tarzan stooped to examine the ground.
He found that a large shrub had been torn up by the roots.
Then he found something else.
There was a wry smile on his face as he rose and turned toward the girl. "_El adrea_ has been here.
From the signs, though, I rather think that his prey escaped him.
With a little start they would be safe enough from him in the open." There was nothing to do but continue on foot.
The way led them across a low spur of the mountains, but the girl knew the trail as well as she did her mother's face.
They walked in easy, swinging strides, Tarzan keeping a hand's breadth behind the girl's shoulder, that she might set the pace, and thus be less fatigued.
As they walked they talked, occasionally stopping to listen for sounds of pursuit. It was now a beautiful, moonlit night.
The air was crisp and invigorating.
Behind them lay the interminable vista of the desert, dotted here and there with an occasional oasis.
The date palms of the little fertile spot they had just left, and the circle of goatskin tents, stood out in sharp relief against the yellow sand-a phantom paradise upon a phantom sea.
Before them rose the grim and silent mountains.
Tarzan's blood leaped in his veins.
He looked down upon the girl beside him-a daughter of the desert walking across the face of a dead world with a son of the jungle.
He smiled at the thought.
He wished that he had had a sister, and that she had been like this girl.
What a bully chum she would have been! They had entered the mountains now, and were progressing more slowly, for the trail was steeper and very rocky. For a few minutes they had been silent.
The girl was wondering if they would reach her father's _douar_ before the pursuit had overtaken them. Tarzan was wishing that they might walk on thus forever.
If the girl were only a man they might.
He longed for a friend who loved the same wild life that he loved.
He had learned to crave companionship, but it was his misfortune that most of the men he knew preferred immaculate linen and their clubs to nakedness and the jungle.
It was, of course, difficult to understand, yet it was very evident that they did. The two had just turned a projecting rock around which the trail ran when they were brought to a sudden stop.
There, before them, directly in the middle of the path, stood Numa, _el adrea_, the black lion.
His green eyes looked very wicked, and he bared his teeth, and lashed his bay-black sides with his angry tail.
Then he roared-the fearsome, terror-inspiring roar of the hungry lion which is also angry. "Your knife," said Tarzan to the girl, extending his hand.
She slipped the hilt of the weapon into his waiting palm.
As his fingers closed upon it he drew her back and pushed her behind him.
Walk back to the desert as rapidly as you can.
If you hear me call you will know that all is well, and you may return." "It is useless," she replied, resignedly.
This is the end." "Do as I tell you," he commanded.
He is about to charge.
Behind him the tense figure of the girl, motionless as a carven statue.
She leaned slightly forward, her lips parted, her eyes wide.
Her only conscious thought was wonder at the bravery of the man who dared face with a puny knife the lord with the large head.
A man of her own blood would have knelt in prayer and gone down beneath those awful fangs without resistance.
In either case the result would be the same-it was inevitable; but she could not repress a thrill of admiration as her eyes rested upon the heroic figure before her.
To him man was a clumsy, slow-moving, defenseless creature-he had little respect for him. But this time he found that he was pitted against a creature as agile and as quick as himself.
When his mighty frame struck the spot where the man had been he was no longer there. The watching girl was transfixed by astonishment at the ease with which the crouching man eluded the great paws.
He had rushed in behind _el adrea's_ shoulder even before the beast could turn, and had grasped him by the mane.
The lion reared upon his hind legs like a horse-Tarzan had known that he would do this, and he was ready.
He was quite dead when Tarzan of the Apes released his hold and arose.
Then the daughter of the desert witnessed a thing that terrified her even more than had the presence of _el adrea_.
The thing you have done is unheard of.
Even now I cannot believe that it is possible for a lone man armed only with a knife to have fought hand to hand with _el adrea_ and conquered him, unscathed-to have conquered him at all.
And that cry-it was not human.
Why did you do that?" Tarzan flushed.
It is because I forget," he said, "sometimes, that I am a civilized man.
The sun was an hour high when they came out into the desert again beyond the mountains.
Beside a little rivulet they found the girl's horses grazing.
The sheik had but just returned.
He was frantic with grief at the absence of his daughter, whom he thought had been again abducted by the marauders.
So he decided against the sheik's proposal, though he remained a week as his guest. When he left, Kadour ben Saden and fifty white-robed warriors rode with him to Bou Saada.
The Arabs were to enter Bou Saada ahead of him, saying nothing as to his presence with them.
Later Tarzan would come in alone, and go directly to an obscure native inn. Thus, making his entrance after dark, as he did, he was not seen by any one who knew him, and reached the inn unobserved.
No, he would mention monsieur's return to no one.
Presently he returned with a packet of letters.
One was an order from his superior to lay off on his present work, and hasten to Cape Town by the first steamer he could get.
His further instructions would be awaiting him there in the hands of another agent whose name and address were given.
That was all-brief but explicit.
Tarzan arranged to leave Bou Saada early the next morning.
Then he started for the garrison to see Captain Gerard, whom the hotel man had told him had returned with his detachment the previous day. He found the officer in his quarters.
We searched the mountain for days. Then came word that you had been killed and eaten by a lion.
As proof your gun was brought to us.
Your horse had returned to camp the second day after your disappearance.
Lieutenant Gernois was grief-stricken-he took all the blame upon himself.
It was he who insisted on carrying on the search himself.
It was he who found the Arab with your gun.
He will be delighted to know that you are safe." "Doubtless," said Tarzan, with a grim smile. "He is down in the town now, or I should send for him," continued Captain Gerard.
I shall tell him as soon as he returns." Tarzan let the officer think that he had been lost, wandering finally into the _douar_ of Kadour ben Saden, who had escorted him back to Bou Saada.
As soon as possible he bade the good officer adieu, and hastened back into the town.
At the native inn he had learned through Kadour ben Saden a piece of interesting information.
It told of a black-bearded white man who went always disguised as an Arab.
For a time he had nursed a broken wrist.
More recently he had been away from Bou Saada, but now he was back, and Tarzan knew his place of concealment.
It was for there he headed. Through narrow, stinking alleys, black as Erebus, he groped, and then up a rickety stairway, at the end of which was a closed door and a tiny, unglazed window.
The window was high under the low eaves of the mud building.
Tarzan could just reach the sill.
He raised himself slowly until his eyes topped it.
The room within was lighted, and at a table sat Rokoff and Gernois.
Gernois was speaking. "Rokoff, you are a devil!" he was saying.
You have hounded me until I have lost the last shred of my honor.
You have driven me to murder, for the blood of that man Tarzan is on my hands.
If it were not that that other devil's spawn, Paulvitch, still knew my secret, I should kill you here tonight with my bare hands." Rokoff laughed.
I am your best friend.
What you ask will take my last cent, and the only valuable military secret I hold.
You ought to be paying me for the information, instead of taking both it and money, too." "I am paying you by keeping a still tongue in my head," retorted Rokoff.
Will you, or will you not?
I give you three minutes to decide.
If you are not agreeable I shall send a note to your commandant tonight that will end in the degradation that Dreyfus suffered-the only difference being that he did not deserve it." For a moment Gernois sat with bowed head.
He drew two pieces of paper from his blouse. "Here," he said hopelessly.
I had them ready, for I knew that there could be but one outcome.
He held them toward the Russian. Rokoff's cruel face lighted in malignant gloating.
He seized the bits of paper. "You have done well, Gernois," he said.
I shall not trouble you again-unless you happen to accumulate some more money or information," and he grinned. "You never shall again, you dog!" hissed Gernois.
The next time I shall kill you.
I came near doing it tonight.
For an hour I sat with these two pieces of paper on my table before me ere I came here-beside them lay my loaded revolver.
I was trying to decide which I should bring.
Next time the choice shall be easier, for I already have decided.
You had a close call tonight, Rokoff; do not tempt fate a second time." Then Gernois rose to leave.
Tarzan barely had time to drop to the landing and shrink back into the shadows on the far side of the door. Even then he scarcely hoped to elude detection.
The landing was very small, and though he flattened himself against the wall at its far edge he was scarcely more than a foot from the doorway.
Almost immediately it opened, and Gernois stepped out.
Gernois had taken perhaps three steps down the stairway when he halted and half turned, as though to retrace his steps. Tarzan knew that discovery would be inevitable.
Rokoff still stood on the threshold a foot from him, but he was looking in the opposite direction, toward Gernois.
Then the officer evidently reconsidered his decision, and resumed his downward course.
Tarzan could hear Rokoff's sigh of relief.
A moment later the Russian went back into the room and closed the door. Tarzan waited until Gernois had had time to get well out of hearing, then he pushed open the door and stepped into the room.
He was on top of Rokoff before the man could rise from the chair where he sat scanning the paper Gernois had given him.
As his eyes turned and fell upon the ape-man's face his own went livid. "You!" he gasped. "I," replied Tarzan. "What do you want?" whispered Rokoff, for the look in the ape-man's eyes frightened him.
Have you come to kill me?
You do not dare kill me." "I dare kill you, Rokoff," replied Tarzan, "for no one knows that you are here or that I am here, and Paulvitch would tell them that it was Gernois.
I heard you tell Gernois so.
But that would not influence me, Rokoff.
I would not care who knew that I had killed you; the pleasure of killing you would more than compensate for any punishment they might inflict upon me.
You are the most despicable cur of a coward, Rokoff, I have ever heard of.
I should love to kill you," and Tarzan approached closer to the man. Rokoff's nerves were keyed to the breaking point.
With a shriek he sprang toward an adjoining room, but the ape-man was upon his back while his leap was yet but half completed.
Iron fingers sought his throat-the great coward squealed like a stuck pig, until Tarzan had shut off his wind.
Then the ape-man dragged him to his feet, still choking him.
The Russian struggled futilely-he was like a babe in the mighty grasp of Tarzan of the Apes. Tarzan sat him in a chair, and long before there was danger of the man's dying he released his hold upon his throat.
When the Russian's coughing spell had abated Tarzan spoke to him again. "I have given you a taste of the suffering of death," he said.
But I shall not kill-this time.
I am sparing you solely for the sake of a very good woman whose great misfortune it was to have been born of the same woman who gave birth to you.
But I shall spare you only this once on her account.
Then he turned to the table, on which the two pieces of paper still lay.
As he picked them up Rokoff gasped in horror. Tarzan examined both the check and the other.
He was amazed at the information the latter contained.
He did not dare curse aloud. The next morning Tarzan rode north on his way to Bouira and Algiers.
As he had ridden past the hotel Lieutenant Gernois was standing on the veranda.
As his eyes discovered Tarzan he went white as chalk.
The ape-man would have been glad had the meeting not occurred, but he could not avoid it.
He saluted the officer as he rode past.
Mechanically Gernois returned the salute, but those terrible, wide eyes followed the horseman, expressionless except for horror.
Then you have not heard about poor Gernois." "He was the last man I saw as I rode away," replied Tarzan.
What about him?" "He is dead.
He shot himself about eight o'clock this morning." Two days later Tarzan reached Algiers.
There he found that he would have a two days' wait before he could catch a ship bound for Cape Town. He occupied his time in writing out a full report of his mission.
Both were fashionably dressed and smooth shaven.
The taller of the two had sandy hair, but his eyebrows were very black.
Later in the day they chanced to meet Tarzan on deck, but as one hurriedly called his companion's attention to something at sea their faces were turned from Tarzan as he passed, so that he did not notice their features.
In fact, he had paid no attention to them at all. Following the instructions of his chief, Tarzan had booked his passage under an assumed name-John Caldwell, London.
He did not understand the necessity of this, and it caused him considerable speculation.
He wondered what role he was to play in Cape Town. "Well," he thought, "thank Heaven that I am rid of Rokoff.
He was commencing to annoy me.
I wonder if I am really becoming so civilized that presently I shall develop a set of nerves.
He would give them to me if any one could, for he does not fight fair.
One never knows through what new agency he is going to strike.
It is as though Numa, the lion, had induced Tantor, the elephant, and Histah, the snake, to join him in attempting to kill me.
I would then never have known what minute, or by whom, I was to be attacked next.
But the brutes are more chivalrous than man-they do not stoop to cowardly intrigue." At dinner that night Tarzan sat next to a young woman whose place was at the captain's left.
The officer introduced them. Miss Strong!
Where had he heard the name before?
It was very familiar. And then the girl's mother gave him the clew, for when she addressed her daughter she called her Hazel. Hazel Strong!
What memories the name inspired.
It had been a letter to this girl, penned by the fair hand of Jane Porter, that had carried to him the first message from the woman he loved.
How vividly he recalled the night he had stolen it from the desk in the cabin of his long-dead father, where Jane Porter had sat writing it late into the night, while he crouched in the darkness without.
Porter, his hands clasped beneath the tails of his long coat, paces back and forth under the ever-watchful eye of his faithful secretary, Mr. Samuel T.
She, too, was happy, for was she not returning to her beloved Maryland?
Already she could see dimly through the fog of smoke the murky headlight of the oncoming engine.
The men began to gather up the hand baggage.
Suddenly Clayton exclaimed. "By Jove!
I've left my ulster in the waiting-room," and hastened off to fetch it. "Good-bye, Jane," said Tarzan, extending his hand.
God bless you!" "Good-bye," replied the girl faintly.
Try to forget me-no, not that-I could not bear to think that you had forgotten me." "There is no danger of that, dear," he answered.
I wish to Heaven that I might forget.
It would be so much easier than to go through life always remembering what might have been.
You will be happy, though; I am sure you shall-you must be.
You may tell the others of my decision to drive my car on to New York-I don't feel equal to bidding Clayton good-bye.
He stooped to pick it up, thinking it might be a message of importance which some one had dropped.
He glanced at it hastily, and then suddenly he forgot his coat, the approaching train-everything but that terrible little piece of yellow paper in his hand.
It was D'Arnot's cablegram to Tarzan, and it read: Finger prints prove you Greystoke.
Congratulations. D'ARNOT. He staggered as though he had received a mortal blow.
Just then he heard the others calling to him to hurry-the train was coming to a stop at the little platform.
Like a man dazed he gathered up his ulster.
He would tell them about the cablegram when they were all on board the train.
Then he ran out upon the platform just as the engine whistled twice in the final warning that precedes the first rumbling jerk of coupling pins.
The others were on board, leaning out from the platform of a Pullman, crying to him to hurry.
Quite five minutes elapsed before they were settled in their seats, nor was it until then that Clayton discovered that Tarzan was not with them. "Where is Tarzan?" he asked Jane Porter.
In another car?" "No," she replied; "at the last minute he determined to drive his machine back to New York.
He is anxious to see more of America than is possible from a car window.
He is returning to France, you know." Clayton did not reply.
He was trying to find the right words to explain to Jane Porter the calamity that had befallen him-and her.
He wondered just what the effect of his knowledge would be on her.
Would she still wish to marry him-to be plain Mrs. Clayton?
Suddenly the awful sacrifice which one of them must make loomed large before his imagination.
Then came the question: Will Tarzan claim his own?
The ape-man had known the contents of the message before he calmly denied knowledge of his parentage!
He had admitted that Kala, the ape, was his mother!
Could it have been for love of Jane Porter? There was no other explanation which seemed reasonable.
Then, having ignored the evidence of the message, was it not reasonable to assume that he meant never to claim his birthright?
If this were so, what right had he, William Cecil Clayton, to thwart the wishes, to balk the self-sacrifice of this strange man?
But during the balance of the trip, and for many days thereafter, he was moody and distraught.
I must return to England at once-I want you to return with me, dear." "I can't get ready so soon as that," replied Jane.
It will take a whole month, at least." She was glad, for she hoped that whatever called him to England might still further delay the wedding.
She had made a bad bargain, but she intended carrying her part loyally to the bitter end-if she could manage to secure a temporary reprieve, though, she felt that she was warranted in doing so.
His reply disconcerted her. "Very well, Jane," he said.
The smaller, a trim white yacht, was speeding toward the east, and on her deck sat a young woman who gazed with sad eyes upon a diamond-studded locket which she idly fingered.
I met some very delightful people while I was there.
I recall one family from your own city, Miss Strong, whom I liked particularly-Professor Porter and his daughter." "Jane Porter!" exclaimed the girl.
Do you mean to tell me that you know Jane Porter?
Why, she is the very best friend I have in the world. We were little children together-we have known each other for ages." "Indeed!" he answered, smiling.
You would have difficulty in persuading any one of the fact who had seen either of you." "I'll qualify the statement, then," she answered, with a laugh.
We have known each other for two ages-hers and mine.
But seriously we are as dear to each other as sisters, and now that I am going to lose her I am almost heartbroken." "Going to lose her?" exclaimed Tarzan.
Why, what do you mean?
You mean that now that she is married and living in England, you will seldom if ever see her." "Yes," replied she; "and the saddest part of it all is that she is not marrying the man she loves.
Marrying from a sense of duty!
I think it is perfectly wicked, and I told her so.
But Jane Porter is peculiarly positive.
I never met him, but from what Jane tells me he must be a very wonderful person.
It seems that he was born in an African jungle, and brought up by fierce, anthropoid apes.
He had never seen a white man or woman until Professor Porter and his party were marooned on the coast right at the threshold of his tiny cabin.
He delighted in hearing Hazel Strong talk of Jane, but when he was the subject of the conversation he was bored and embarrassed.
But he was soon given a respite, for the girl's mother joined them, and the talk became general. The next few days passed uneventfully.
The steamer plowed steadily on toward the south without pause. Tarzan spent quite a little time with Miss Strong and her mother.
They whiled away their hours on deck reading, talking, or taking pictures with Miss Strong's camera.
When the sun had set they walked. One day Tarzan found Miss Strong in conversation with a stranger, a man he had not seen on board before.
That it had been under peculiar circumstances he was positive.
Presently the sun reached them, and the girl asked Monsieur Thuran to move her chair farther back into the shade.
Tarzan happened to be watching the man at the time, and noticed the awkward manner in which he handled the chair-his left wrist was stiff.
That clew was sufficient-a sudden train of associated ideas did the rest. Monsieur Thuran had been trying to find an excuse to make a graceful departure.
The lull in the conversation following the moving of their position gave him an opportunity to make his excuses.
Bowing low to Miss Strong, and inclining his head to Tarzan, he turned to leave them. "Just a moment," said Tarzan.
If Miss Strong will pardon me I will accompany you.
I shall return in a moment, Miss Strong." Monsieur Thuran looked uncomfortable.
If I could believe it the fact that you are in disguise would immediately disabuse my mind of any such idea." "Well," growled Rokoff, with a shrug, "I cannot see what you are going to do about it.
This vessel flies the English flag.
I have as much right on board her as you, and from the fact that you are booked under an assumed name I imagine that I have more right." "We will not discuss it, Rokoff.
All I wanted to say to you is that you must keep away from Miss Strong-she is a decent woman." Rokoff turned scarlet. "If you don't I shall pitch you overboard," continued Tarzan.
Do not forget that I am just waiting for some excuse.
Then he turned on his heel, and left Rokoff standing there trembling with suppressed rage. He did not see the man again for days, but Rokoff was not idle.
In his stateroom with Paulvitch he fumed and swore, threatening the most terrible of revenges. "I would throw him overboard tonight," he cried, "were I sure that those papers were not on his person.
I cannot chance pitching them into the ocean with him.
If you were not such a stupid coward, Alexis, you would find a way to enter his stateroom and search for the documents." Paulvitch smiled.
You are supposed to be the brains of this partnership, my dear Nikolas," he replied.
Why do you not find the means to search Monsieur Caldwell's stateroom-eh?" Two hours later fate was kind to them, for Paulvitch, who was ever on the watch, saw Tarzan leave his room without locking the door.
A moment later he grasped an official envelope in his hand.
When he handed the packet to Rokoff in the seclusion of their stateroom the larger man rang for a steward, and ordered a pint of champagne. "We must celebrate, my dear Alexis," he said. "It was luck, Nikolas," explained Paulvitch.
It is evident that he carries these papers always upon his person-just by chance he neglected to transfer them when he changed coats a few minutes since.
But there will be the deuce to pay when he discovers his loss.
I am afraid that he will immediately connect you with it.
Every night he had done this since he had come on board-sometimes he stood thus for an hour.
And the eyes that had been watching his every movement since he had boarded the ship at Algiers knew that this was his habit. Even as he stood there this night those eyes were on him.
Presently the last straggler had left the deck.
It was a clear night, but there was no moon-objects on deck were barely discernible. From the shadows of the cabin two figures crept stealthily upon the ape-man from behind.
One of them raised his hand and lowered it, as though counting off seconds-one-two-three!
As one man the two leaped for their victim.
It dropped so quickly into the dark waters below that she could not be sure of what it was-it might have been a man, she could not say.
She listened for some outcry from above-for the always-fearsome call, "Man overboard!" but it did not come.
Miss Strong was mildly curious, for Mr. Caldwell had always made it a point to wait that he might breakfast with her and her mother.
As she was sitting on deck later Monsieur Thuran paused to exchange a half dozen pleasant words with her.
He seemed in most excellent spirits-his manner was the extreme of affability.
As he passed on Miss Strong thought what a very delightful man was Monsieur Thuran. The day dragged heavily.
But she had begun to become seriously concerned in Mr. Caldwell's continued absence; somehow she constantly associated it with the start she had had the night before, when the dark object fell past her port into the sea.
Presently she broached the subject to Monsieur Thuran.
Had he seen Mr. Caldwell today?
Why? "He was not at breakfast as usual, nor have I seen him once since yesterday," explained the girl. Monsieur Thuran was extremely solicitous. "I did not have the pleasure of intimate acquaintance with Mr. Caldwell," he said.
He seemed a most estimable gentleman, however.
Can it be that he is indisposed, and has remained in his stateroom?
It would not be strange." "No," replied the girl, "it would not be strange, of course; but for some inexplicable reason I have one of those foolish feminine presentiments that all is not right with Mr. Caldwell.
It is the strangest feeling-it is as though I knew that he was not on board the ship." Monsieur Thuran laughed pleasantly.
Mercy, my dear Miss Strong," he said; "where in the world could he be then?
We have not been within sight of land for days." "Of course, it is ridiculous of me," she admitted.
And mamma is perfectly infatuated with him.
He is the sort of man with whom one has a feeling of perfect security-no one could help but have confidence in Mr. Caldwell." A moment later the steward returned to say that Mr. Caldwell was not in his stateroom.
I cannot find him, Miss Strong, and"-he hesitated-"I have learned that his berth was not occupied last night.
I think that I had better report the matter to the captain." "Most assuredly," exclaimed Miss Strong.
I shall go with you to the captain myself.
I know that something awful has happened.
My presentiments were not false, after all." It was a very frightened young woman and an excited steward who presented themselves before the captain a few moments later.
I cannot say that it was a human body-there was no outcry.
It might have been only what I thought it was-a bundle of refuse.
Miss Strong remained in his cabin, waiting the outcome of the quest.
The captain asked her many questions, but she could tell him nothing about the missing man other than what she had herself seen during their brief acquaintance on shipboard.
For the first time she suddenly realized how very little indeed Mr. Caldwell had told her about himself or his past life.
He did not look to me like a man who was subject to fainting spells, or anything of that sort.
And even had he been it is scarcely credible that he should have fallen completely over the rail had he been taken with an attack while leaning upon it-he would rather have fallen inside, upon the deck.
For two days she did not leave her cabin, and when she finally ventured on deck she was very wan and white, with great, dark circles beneath her eyes.
I cannot rid my mind of it." "Nor I," said the girl wearily.
I feel that he might have been saved had I but given the alarm." "You must not reproach yourself, my dear Miss Strong," urged Monsieur Thuran.
It was in no way your fault.
Another would have done as you did.
Who would think that because something fell into the sea from a ship that it must necessarily be a man?
Nor would the outcome have been different had you given an alarm.
No, you must not censure yourself.
You have done more than any other of us for poor Mr. Caldwell-you were the only one to miss him.
It was you who instituted the search." The girl could not help but feel grateful to him for his kind and encouraging words.
Did he not have in his coat pocket the thing he had taken passage upon this very boat to obtain?
There was nothing more to detain him here.
He could not return to the Continent fast enough, that he might board the first express for St. Petersburg. But now another idea had obtruded itself, and was rapidly crowding his original intentions into the background.
That American fortune was not to be sneezed at, nor was its possessor a whit less attractive. "_Sapristi!_ but she would cause a sensation in St. Petersburg.
Mrs. Strong was not quite so favorably impressed by him as her daughter. "I do not know why I should distrust him," she said to Hazel one day as they were discussing him.
He seems a perfect gentleman in every respect, but sometimes there is something about his eyes-a fleeting expression which I cannot describe, but which when I see it gives me a very uncanny feeling." The girl laughed.
His attentions were very marked, but they were so punctiliously arranged to meet the girl's every wish that she came to depend upon him more and more.
Did she or her mother or a cousin require an escort-was there a little friendly service to be rendered, the genial and ubiquitous Monsieur Thuran was always available.
Her uncle and his family grew to like him for his unfailing courtesy and willingness to be of service.
Monsieur Thuran was becoming indispensable.
At length, feeling the moment propitious, he proposed. Miss Strong was startled.
She did not know what to say. "I had never thought that you cared for me in any such way," she told him.
I have looked upon you always as a very dear friend.
I shall not give you my answer now.
Forget that you have asked me to be your wife. Let us go on as we have been-then I can consider you from an entirely different angle for a time.
It may be that I shall discover that my feeling for you is more than friendship.
I certainly have not thought for a moment that I loved you." This arrangement was perfectly satisfactory to Monsieur Thuran.
I am willing to wait, for I am certain that so great and pure a love as mine will be rewarded.
All that I care to know is that you do not love another.
Will you tell me?" "I have never been in love in my life," she replied, and he was quite satisfied.
Where in the world did you drop from?
Why, I can't believe my own eyes." "Well, of all things!" cried the equally astonished Jane.
And here I have been wasting whole reams of perfectly good imagination picturing you in Baltimore-the very idea!
Dinners were arranged, and trips into the surrounding country to entertain the visitors.
Monsieur Thuran was a welcome guest at every function.
Once when he was alone with the Englishman he took occasion to make it quite plain that his engagement to Miss Strong was to be announced immediately upon their return to America.
But not a word of it, my dear Tennington-not a word of it." "Certainly, I quite understand, my dear fellow," Tennington had replied.
But you are to be congratulated-ripping girl, don't you know-really." The next day it came.
Mrs. Strong, Hazel, and Monsieur Thuran were Lord Tennington's guests aboard his yacht.
I, too, have found that I must return at once, and now I shall have the honor of accompanying and serving you." "That is nice of you, Monsieur Thuran," replied Mrs. Strong.
I am sure that we shall be glad to place ourselves under your protection.
But in the bottom of her heart was the wish that they might escape him.
Why, she could not have told. "By Jove!" ejaculated Lord Tennington, a moment later.
Bully idea, by Jove!" "Yes, Tennington, of course," ventured Clayton; "it must be a bully idea if you had it, but what the deuce is it?
Now, isn't that a corker?" "Forgive me, Tenny, old boy," cried Clayton.
It certainly IS a corking idea-I never should have suspected you of it.
Poor fellow, I have so often intended asking you about him, but I never have been able to think of it when we were together.
She was holding the little print so that Jane did not see the face of the man it portrayed. "His name was John Caldwell," continued Hazel.
He said that he met you in America.
He is an Englishman." "I do not recollect the name," replied Jane.
Let me see the picture." "The poor fellow was lost overboard on our trip down the coast," she said, as she handed the print to Jane. "Lost over-Why, Hazel, Hazel-don't tell me that he is dead-drowned at sea!
Why don't you say that you are joking!
Who do you think it is?" "I don't think, Hazel.
I know that that is a picture of Tarzan of the Apes." "Jane!" "I cannot be mistaken.
Oh, Hazel, are you sure that he is dead?
Can there be no mistake?" "I am afraid not, dear," answered Hazel sadly.
I wish I could think that you are mistaken, but now a hundred and one little pieces of corroborative evidence occur to me that meant nothing to me while I thought that he was John Caldwell, of London.
He said that he had been born in Africa, and educated in France." "Yes, that would be true," murmured Jane Porter dully. "The first officer, who searched his luggage, found nothing to identify John Caldwell, of London.
Practically all his belongings had been made, or purchased, in Paris.
Everything that bore an initial was marked either with a 'T' alone, or with 'J.
We thought that he was traveling incognito under his first two names-the J.
C. standing for John Caldwell." "Tarzan of the Apes took the name Jean C.
Tarzan," said Jane, in the same lifeless monotone.
He died all alone in this terrible ocean!
It is unbelievable that that brave heart should have ceased to beat-that those mighty muscles are quiet and cold forever!
When at last she came on deck all were struck by the sad change that had taken place in her.
She was no longer the alert, vivacious American beauty who had charmed and delighted all who came in contact with her.
Instead she was a very quiet and sad little girl-with an expression of hopeless wistfulness that none but Hazel Strong could interpret. The entire party strove their utmost to cheer and amuse her, but all to no avail.
Occasionally the jolly Lord Tennington would wring a wan smile from her, but for the most part she sat with wide eyes looking out across the sea. With Jane Porter's illness one misfortune after another seemed to attack the yacht.
First an engine broke down, and they drifted for two days while temporary repairs were being made.
Then a squall struck them unaware, that carried overboard nearly everything above deck that was portable.
Later two of the seamen fell to fighting in the forecastle, with the result that one of them was badly wounded with a knife, and the other had to be put in irons.
The second night after the drowning of the mate the little yacht was suddenly wracked from stem to stern.
About one o'clock in the morning there was a terrific impact that threw the slumbering guests and crew from berth and bunk.
A mighty shudder ran through the frail craft; she lay far over to starboard; the engines stopped.
Her whole bleedin' bottom's ripped out.
She can't float twenty minutes." "Shut up!" roared Tennington.
Ladies, go below and get some of your things together.
It may not be so bad as that, but we may have to take to the boats.
It will be safer to be prepared.
And, Captain Jerrold, send some competent man below, please, to ascertain the exact extent of the damage.
She carried four boats, and these were all filled and lowered away in safety.
Jane Porter had dropped into a fitful slumber-the fierce light of the sun upon her upturned face awoke her.
In the boat with her were three sailors, Clayton, and Monsieur Thuran.
He never had called for help in his life, and so it is not strange that he did not think of it now.
Always had he depended upon his own prowess and resourcefulness, nor had there ever been since the days of Kala any to answer an appeal for succor.
As he swam, guided toward the east by the stars, he noticed that he felt the weight of his shoes, and so he removed them.
His trousers went next, and he would have removed his coat at the same time but for the precious papers in its pocket.
The ape-man swore softly, and let his coat and shirt sink into the Atlantic.
A few strong strokes brought him to its side-it was the bottom of a wave-washed derelict.
Tarzan clambered upon it-he would rest there until daylight at least.
He had no intention to remain there inactive-a prey to hunger and thirst.
Tarzan of the Apes curled up upon the slimy timbers, and was soon asleep. The heat of the sun awoke him early in the forenoon.
His first conscious sensation was of thirst, which grew almost to the proportions of suffering with full returning consciousness; but a moment later it was forgotten in the joy of two almost simultaneous discoveries.
There he righted and examined it-the boat was quite sound, and a moment later floated upright alongside the wreck.
Before him lay what appeared to be the entrance to a little, landlocked harbor.
The wooded point to the north was strangely familiar.
Could it be possible that fate had thrown him up at the very threshold of his own beloved jungle!
Its prow had scarcely touched when the ape-man leaped to shore-his heart beat fast in joy and exultation as each long-familiar object came beneath his roving eyes-the cabin, the beach, the little brook, the dense jungle, the black, impenetrable forest.
Then he approached his cabin.
The door was still closed and latched as he and D'Arnot had left it.
He raised the latch and entered.
There was nothing in the cabin, nor had he any weapons; but upon a wall hung one of his old grass ropes.
It had been many times broken and spliced, so that he had discarded it for a better one long before.
Tarzan wished that he had a knife.
Well, unless he was mistaken he should have that and a spear and bows and arrows before another sun had set-the rope would take care of that, and in the meantime it must be made to procure food for him.
With the first dizzy swing from tree to tree all the old joy of living swept over him.
Vain regrets and dull heartache were forgotten.
Now, indeed, was the true happiness of perfect freedom his.
Who would go back to the stifling, wicked cities of civilized man when the mighty reaches of the great jungle offered peace and liberty?
Not he. While it was yet light Tarzan came to a drinking place by the side of a jungle river.
There was a ford there, and for countless ages the beasts of the forest had come down to drink at this spot.
Here of a night might always be found either Sabor or Numa crouching in the dense foliage of the surrounding jungle awaiting an antelope or a water buck for their meal.
Here came Horta, the boar, to water, and here came Tarzan of the Apes to make a kill, for he was very empty. On a low branch he squatted above the trail.
For an hour he waited.
A little to one side of the ford in the densest thicket he heard the faint sound of padded feet, and the brushing of a huge body against tall grasses and tangled creepers.
None other than Tarzan might have heard it, but the ape-man heard and translated-it was Numa, the lion, on the same errand as himself.
Tarzan smiled. Presently he heard an animal approaching warily along the trail toward the drinking place.
A moment more and it came in view-it was Horta, the boar.
Here was delicious meat-and Tarzan's mouth watered.
The grasses where Numa lay were very still now-ominously still.
Horta passed beneath Tarzan-a few more steps and he would be within the radius of Numa's spring.
Angry, threatening, hungry, he paced back and forth beneath the taunting ape-man.
Sinewy fingers completed the work the choking noose had commenced.
Ah, but it had been delicious!
He hoped not, for that would mean a night's sleep curled in the crotch of a tree, and he much preferred the bed of grasses within his own abode.
But he knew just the tree and the most comfortable crotch, if necessity demanded that he sleep out.
So Tarzan came to his cabin unattended, and a few moments later was curled up in the mildewed remnants of what had once been a bed of grasses.
Thus easily did Monsieur Jean C.
Tarzan slough the thin skin of his artificial civilization, and sink happy and contented into the deep sleep of the wild beast that has fed to repletion.
When he awoke he ran to the brook first to drink.
Then he took a plunge into the sea, swimming about for a quarter of an hour.
Afterward he returned to his cabin, and breakfasted off the flesh of Horta.
This done, he buried the balance of the carcass in the soft earth outside the cabin, for his evening meal. Once more he took his rope and vanished into the jungle.
This time he hunted nobler quarry-man; although had you asked him his own opinion he could have named a dozen other denizens of the jungle which he considered far the superiors in nobility of the men he hunted.
Today Tarzan was in quest of weapons.
He wondered if the women and children had remained in Mbonga's village after the punitive expedition from the French cruiser had massacred all the warriors in revenge for D'Arnot's supposed death.
There was no sign of man.
He had eaten heartily again-this time from the flesh of Bara, the deer, who had fallen prey to his quick noose. Early the next morning he resumed his journey, always following the course of the stream.
It was the scent of man, but yet a long way off. The ape-man thrilled with pleasure.
Every sense was on the alert as with crafty stealth he moved quickly through the trees, up-wind, in the direction of his prey.
Presently he came upon it-a lone warrior treading softly through the jungle. Tarzan followed close above his quarry, waiting for a clearer space in which to hurl his rope.
As he stalked the unconscious man, new thoughts presented themselves to the ape-man-thoughts born of the refining influences of civilization, and of its cruelties.
It came to him that seldom if ever did civilized man kill a fellow being without some pretext, however slight.
He, too, was stalking the black man.
Like lightning Numa turned upon this new enemy, and, defenseless as he was, Tarzan of the Apes was nearer to death that instant than he ever before had been.
It was the black who saved him.
True to its mark the iron-shod weapon flew, transfixing Numa's sleek carcass from the right groin to beneath the left shoulder.
With a hideous scream of rage and pain the brute turned again upon the black.
It was a matter of but an instant to reach the black's side and drag his long knife from its scabbard.
Then he signed the warrior to continue to shoot arrows into the great beast while he attempted to close in upon him with the knife; so as one tantalized upon one side, the other sneaked cautiously in upon the other.
A giant arm encircled the tawny throat, and a long blade sank once, true as a die, into the fierce heart.
When he pointed to their weapons the warriors hastened to fetch spear, shield, arrows, and a bow.
His friend of the encounter presented him with the knife with which he had killed Numa.
There was nothing in all the village he could not have had for the asking. How much easier this was, thought Tarzan, than murder and robbery to supply his wants.
How close he had been to killing this man whom he never had seen before, and who now was manifesting by every primitive means at his command friendship and affection for his would-be slayer. Tarzan of the Apes was ashamed.
Hereafter he would at least wait until he knew men deserved it before he thought of killing them. The idea recalled Rokoff to his mind.
He wished that he might have the Russian to himself in the dark jungle for a few minutes.
There was a man who deserved killing if ever any one did.
There was feasting, for the hunters had brought in an antelope and a zebra as trophies of their skill, and gallons of the weak native beer were consumed.
As the warriors danced in the firelight, Tarzan was again impressed by the symmetry of their figures and the regularity of their features-the flat noses and thick lips of the typical West Coast savage were entirely missing.
When he expressed a wish to examine one of these, the owner removed it from her person and insisted, through the medium of signs, that Tarzan accept it as a gift.
He tried to explain that he would return in the morning, but they could not understand.
When he finally walked away from them toward the side of the village opposite the gate, they were still further mystified as to his intentions. Tarzan, however, knew just what he was about.
For a moment the natives were startled and afraid, but when they recognized their guest of the night before they welcomed him with shouts and laughter.
Quickly he learned their simple speech, their native customs, and the ethics of their wild, primitive tribal life.
There was no mercy in them.
When it was not slaves they sought it was ivory, but usually it was both.
Our men were killed and our women driven away like sheep.
We fought against them for many years, but our arrows and spears could not prevail against the sticks which spit fire and lead and death to many times the distance that our mightiest warrior could place an arrow.
Tarzan's eyes had been upon the ornament, but his thoughts were elsewhere.
Presently he recalled the question he had tried to ask when he first came to the tribe-the question he could not at that time make them understand.
For weeks he had forgotten so trivial a thing as gold, for he had been for the time a truly primeval man with no thought beyond today.
But of a sudden the sight of gold awakened the sleeping civilization that was in him, and with it came the lust for wealth.
That lesson Tarzan had learned well in his brief experience of the ways of civilized man.
He knew that gold meant power and pleasure.
One of the parties that searched farther for a location for the tribe when first they settled here came upon a strange people who wore many ornaments of yellow metal.
They were very fierce, rushing out and falling upon our warriors before ever they learned that their errand was a peaceful one.
Our men were few in number, but they held their own at the top of a little rocky hill, until the fierce people went back at sunset into their wicked city.
He remembered it well. "For ten days we followed this river which runs beside our village.
Up toward its source we traveled until on the tenth day we came to a little spring far up upon the side of a lofty mountain range.
In this little spring our river is born.
The next day we crossed over the top of the mountain, and upon the other side we came to a tiny rivulet which we followed down into a great forest.
After twenty days of marching from the time we had crossed the mountains and passed out of our own country we came again to another range of mountains.
Up their side we followed the great river, that had now dwindled to a tiny rivulet, until we came to a little cave near the mountain-top.
In this cave was the mother of the river. "I remember that we camped there that night, and that it was very cold, for the mountains were high.
There were fifty sleek, black warriors, and in their midst, lithe and active as a young forest god, strode Tarzan of the Apes, his brown skin contrasting oddly with the ebony of his companions.
Except for color he was one of them.
Poor Paul, who had prided himself on having eradicated from his friend the last traces of wild savagery.
From there on they moved very quietly indeed searching for the spoor of the great beasts.
At length they found the well-marked trail along which the herd had passed not many hours before.
In single file they followed it for about half an hour.
One of the blacks followed more slowly and carefully.
He pointed the direction to the watchers below, indicating with his fingers the number of beasts he could count. Immediately the hunters started toward the elephants.
The black in the tree hastened down, but Tarzan stalked, after his own fashion, along the leafy way of the middle terrace. It is no child's play to hunt wild elephants with the crude weapons of primitive man.
Now they singled out two large tuskers, and at a signal the fifty men rose from the ground where they had lain concealed, and hurled their heavy war spears at the two marked beasts.
There was not a single miss; twenty-five spears were embedded in the sides of each of the giant animals.
For a moment the huge bull stood trumpeting in rage and pain, casting about with its little eyes for the author of its hurt.
The village is being attacked." "Come!" cried Waziri.
The Arab raiders have returned with their cannibal slaves for our ivory and our women!" Chapter XVI The Ivory Raiders Waziri's warriors marched at a rapid trot through the jungle in the direction of the village.
For a few minutes, the sharp cracking of guns ahead warned them to haste, but finally the reports dwindled to an occasional shot, presently ceasing altogether.
There are many Arabs and countless Manyuema, and they all have guns.
They crept close to the village before we knew that they were about, and then, with many shouts, they rushed in upon us, shooting down men, and women, and children.
Those of us who could fled in all directions into the jungle, but more were killed.
I do not know whether they took any prisoners or not-they seemed only bent upon killing us all.
The Manyuema called us many names, saying that they would eat us all before they left our country-that this was our punishment for killing their friends last year.
Inside the next mile a hundred more fugitives were met.
There were many men among these, and so the fighting strength of the party was augmented. Now a dozen warriors were sent creeping ahead to reconnoiter.
Waziri remained with the main body, which advanced in a thin line that spread in a great crescent through the forest.
By the chief's side walked Tarzan. Presently one of the scouts returned.
He had come within sight of the village. "They are all within the palisade," he whispered. "Good!" said Waziri.
If there are even fifty guns within the palisade we shall be repulsed and slaughtered.
Let me go alone through the trees, so that I may look down upon them from above, and see just how many there be, and what chance we might have were we to charge.
It were foolish to lose a single man needlessly if there be no hope of success.
I have an idea that we can accomplish more by cunning than by force.
Will you wait, Waziri?" "Yes," said the old chief.
Go!" So Tarzan sprang into the trees and disappeared in the direction of the village.
He moved more cautiously than was his wont, for he knew that men with guns could reach him quite as easily in the treetops as on the ground.
He counted fifty Arabs and estimated that there were five times as many Manyuema.
Calling his warriors about him, he commanded them to charge, and, with brandishing spears and savage yells, the little force of scarcely more than a hundred dashed madly toward the village gates.
Before the clearing had been half crossed the Arabs opened up a withering fire from behind the palisade. With the first volley Waziri fell.
The speed of the chargers slackened. Another volley brought down a half dozen more.
As they ran the raiders opened the gates, rushing after them, to complete the day's work with the utter extermination of the tribe.
Scatter through the forest, picking up as many stragglers as you can find, and at night, if you think that you have been followed, come by roundabout ways to the spot where we killed the elephants today.
Then I will explain my plan, and you will find that it is good.
You cannot hope to pit your puny strength and simple weapons against the numbers and the guns of the Arabs and the Manyuema." They finally assented.
Then he raced quickly to the upper terrace, there doubling on his tracks and making his way rapidly back toward the village.
With drawn bow the ape-man crept stealthily toward his unsuspecting victim.
The prisoners had already discovered him, and with wide eyes filled with wonder and with hope they watched their would-be rescuer.
Now he halted not ten paces from the unconscious Manyuema.
The shaft was drawn back its full length at the height of the keen gray eye that sighted along its polished surface.
Then, too, Tarzan had been forced to make a wide detour to avoid any possibility of meeting with returning raiders.
He could scarce repress a smile of triumph as he thought of their rage on discovering that their guard had been killed and their prisoners taken away.
It was a joyous reception the little party received when the blacks within the _boma_ saw the long file of fettered friends and relatives enter the firelight.
At intervals one was perched high in the branches of a tree which could overlook the palisade.
Presently a Manyuema within the village fell, pierced by a single arrow.
They ran for the gates, to wreak dire vengeance upon the foolhardy perpetrator of the outrage; but they suddenly realized that they did not know which way to turn to find the foe.
Then they would turn and charge in a new direction.
Every now and then, at varying intervals that were maddening in the terrible suspense they caused, a man would plunge forward dead.
They were wild with elation, and were for finishing the day in one glorious rush upon the village, during which they would slaughter the last of their foemen.
They were even picturing the various tortures they would inflict, and gloating over the suffering of the Manyuema, for whom they entertained a peculiar hatred, when Tarzan put his foot down flatly upon the plan. "You are crazy!" he cried.
I have shown you the only way to fight these people.
Already you have killed twenty of them without the loss of a single warrior, whereas, yesterday, following your own tactics, which you would now renew, you lost at least a dozen, and killed not a single Arab or Manyuema.
We shall return to the elephant _boma_ for the night.
I have a plan to give the Arabs a little taste of what they may expect if they remain in our country, but I shall need no help.
Tarzan slept until midnight, then he arose and crept into the Cimmerian blackness of the forest.
An hour later he came to the edge of the clearing before the village.
There was a camp-fire burning within the palisade.
The ape-man crept across the clearing until he stood before the barred gates.
Through the interstices he saw a lone sentry sitting before the fire. Quietly Tarzan went to the tree at the end of the village street.
He climbed softly to his place, and fitted an arrow to his bow.
Caching all these in a convenient crotch of the tree, he dropped lightly to the ground within the palisade, armed only with his long knife.
The sentry's back was toward him.
Like a cat Tarzan crept upon the dozing man.
A great hand was upon his windpipe, and he was being borne to the earth.
He battled furiously but futilely-with the grim tenacity of a bulldog those awful fingers were clinging to his throat.
Swiftly and surely life was being choked from him.
Drawing a careful bead on the beehive structure in which he knew the chief Arabs to be, he pulled the trigger.
Almost instantly there was an answering groan.
When they leaned over him he was dead.
To their fear-distorted imaginations the body of the sentry, falling with wide-sprawled arms and legs, assumed the likeness of a great beast of prey.
Cautiously he crept back toward it until he saw that it was but a man.
That they were not even safe within a palisaded village at night came as a distinct shock to them.
The Manyuema were laden with stolen ivory.
As Tarzan saw it he grinned, for he knew that they would not carry it far.
Then he saw something which caused him anxiety-a number of the Manyuema were lighting torches in the remnant of the camp-fire.
Do not fire the huts, or we shall kill you all!" A dozen times he repeated it.
The Manyuema hesitated, then one of them flung his torch into the campfire.
The others were about to do the same when an Arab sprung upon them with a stick, beating them toward the huts.
Tarzan could see that he was commanding them to fire the little thatched dwellings.
Then he stood erect upon the swaying branch a hundred feet above the ground, and, raising one of the Arab guns to his shoulder, took careful aim and fired.
With the report the Arab who was urging on his men to burn the village fell in his tracks, and the Manyuema threw away their torches and fled from the village.
Here he again found a suitable perch from which he could watch the preparations of the raiders.
It occurred to him that he might have considerable more fun with them, so again he called to them through his improvised trumpet. "Leave the ivory!" he cried.
Dead men have no use for ivory!" Some of the Manyuema started to lay down their loads, but this was altogether too much for the avaricious Arabs.
With loud shouts and curses they aimed their guns full upon the bearers, threatening instant death to any who might lay down his load.
They stood at far intervals, and, as the column passed, a single arrow or a heavy spear, well aimed, would pierce a Manyuema or an Arab.
Then the Waziri would melt into the distance and run ahead to take his stand farther on.
And so the day wore on-a frightful nightmare of a day for the raiders-a day of weary but well-repaid work for the Waziri.
Each hour was marked by its deadly arrow or cruel spear.
Fall upon your cruel masters and kill them!
You have guns, why do you not use them?
Kill the Arabs, and we will not harm you.
We will take you back to our village and feed you, and lead you out of our country in safety and in peace.
Lay down the ivory, and fall upon your masters-we will help you.
Else you die!" As the voice died down the raiders stood as though turned to stone.
The Arabs eyed their Manyuema slaves; the slaves looked first at one of their fellows, and then at another-they were but waiting for some one to take the initiative.
There were some thirty Arabs left, and about one hundred and fifty blacks.
All were armed-even those who were acting as porters had their rifles slung across their backs. The Arabs drew together.
The sheik ordered the Manyuema to take up the march, and as he spoke he cocked his rifle and raised it.
But at the same instant one of the blacks threw down his load, and, snatching his rifle from his back, fired point-blank at the group of Arabs.
In an instant the camp was a cursing, howling mass of demons, fighting with guns and knives and pistols.
We shall not harm you." For a moment the Manyuema hesitated.
They had no stomach to retrace that difficult three days' trail.
Let us see you, and then we shall give you our answer." Tarzan stepped out of the jungle a dozen paces from them. "Look!" he said.
So long as you do as I tell you, and harm none of my people, we shall do you no hurt.
Since old Waziri's death Tarzan had been directing the warriors in battle, and the temporary command had been tacitly conceded to him.
It was Busuli who spoke first: "Since Waziri is dead, leaving no son, there is but one among us whom we know from experience is fitted to make us a good king.
There is only one who has proved that he can successfully lead us against the guns of the white man, and bring us easy victory without the loss of a single life.
The women came and squatted about the rim of the circle, beating upon tom-toms, clapping their hands in time to the steps of the dancers, and joining in the chant of the warriors.
The women rose and fell in unison, shrieking now at the tops of their voices.
In the center of the circle of glittering black bodies he leaped and roared and shook his heavy spear in the same mad abandon that enthralled his fellow savages.
Would she have still loved this savage warrior chieftain, dancing naked among his naked savage subjects?
And D'Arnot! Could D'Arnot have believed that this was the same man he had introduced into half a dozen of the most select clubs of Paris?
The other members of the party were asleep upon the thwarts or huddled in cramped positions in the bottom of the boat. When the girl realized that they had become separated from the other boats she was filled with alarm.
The sense of utter loneliness and helplessness which the vast expanse of deserted ocean aroused in her was so depressing that, from the first, contemplation of the future held not the slightest ray of promise for her.
She was confident that they were lost-lost beyond possibility of succor. Presently Clayton awoke.
It was several minutes before he could gather his senses sufficiently to realize where he was, or recall the disaster of the previous night.
Finally his bewildered eyes fell upon the girl. "Jane!" he cried.
Thank God that we are together!" "Look," said the girl dully, indicating the horizon with an apathetic gesture.
We are all alone." Clayton scanned the water in every direction. "Where can they be?" he cried.
As Spider 'ere said afore, we'll all bloody well be picked up, anyway, sez 'e, so wot's the use o' squabblin'?
Let's eat, sez I." "That's not a bad idea," said Monsieur Thuran, and then, turning to the third sailor, Wilson, he said: "Pass one of those tins aft, my good man." "Fetch it yerself," retorted Wilson sullenly.
You men should elect a leader, and then abide by his decisions in all matters.
The sailors were the first to get one of the tins of "food" open, and their curses of rage and disappointment caused Clayton to ask what the trouble might be. "Trouble!" shrieked Spider.
It's worse than trouble-it's death!
This--tin is full of coal oil!" Hastily now Clayton and Monsieur Thuran tore open one of theirs, only to learn the hideous truth that it also contained, not food, but coal oil.
One after another the four tins on board were opened.
And as the contents of each became known howls of anger announced the grim truth-there was not an ounce of food upon the boat. "Well, thank Gawd it wasn't the water," cried Thompkins.
It's easier to get along without food than it is without water.
A thin stream of blackish, dry particles filtered slowly through the tiny aperture into the bottom of the cup.
With a groan Wilson dropped the keg, and sat staring at the dry stuff in the cup, speechless with horror. "The kegs are filled with gunpowder," said Spider, in a low tone, turning to those aft.
Tompkins was the first to succumb.
Can you not drop his body overboard, William?" she asked. Clayton rose and staggered toward the corpse.
The two remaining sailors eyed him with a strange, baleful light in their sunken orbs.
He'd be awful by tomorrow, after a day under that broiling sun." "Better leave well enough alone," grumbled Wilson.
We may need him before tomorrow." Slowly the meaning of the man's words percolated into Clayton's understanding.
At last he realized the fellow's reason for objecting to the disposal of the dead man. "God!" whispered Clayton, in a horrified tone.
You don't mean-" "W'y not?" growled Wilson.
He's dead," he added, jerking his thumb in the direction of the corpse.
He won't care." "Come here, Thuran," said Clayton, turning toward the Russian.
Toward evening, as the sun was sinking into the sea, he commenced to chuckle and mumble to himself, but his eyes never left Clayton. After it became quite dark Clayton could still feel those terrible eyes upon him.
He dared not sleep, and yet so exhausted was he that it was a constant fight to retain consciousness.
After what seemed an eternity of suffering his head dropped upon a thwart, and he slept.
How long he was unconscious he did not know-he was awakened by a shuffling noise quite close to him.
Like a wild beast his teeth sought the throat of his intended prey, but Clayton, weak though he was, still found sufficient strength to hold the maniac's mouth from him. At Jane Porter's scream Monsieur Thuran and Spider awoke.
On seeing the cause of her alarm, both men crawled to Clayton's rescue, and between the three of them were able to subdue Wilson and hurl him to the bottom of the boat.
Spider broke down and wept; Jane Porter prayed; Clayton swore softly to himself; Monsieur Thuran sat with his head in his hands, thinking.
The result of his cogitation developed the following morning in a proposition he made to Spider and Clayton. "Gentlemen," said Monsieur Thuran, "you see the fate that awaits us all unless we are picked up within a day or two.
There remains for us, then, but one of two alternatives, and we must choose at once.
Either we must all die together within a few days, or one must be sacrificed that the others may live.
Do you quite clearly grasp my meaning?" Jane Porter, who had overheard, was horrified.
As only one of us three will be the object of sacrifice, we shall decide.
Miss Porter is not interested, since she will be in no danger." "How shall we know who is to be first?" asked Spider. "It may be fairly fixed by lot," replied Monsieur Thuran.
I have a number of franc pieces in my pocket.
How about you, Spider?" "And I," replied the sailor. "It is the will of the majority," announced Monsieur Thuran, "and now let us lose no time in drawing lots.
It is as fair for one as for another.
Monsieur Thuran spread his coat upon the bottom of the boat, and then from a handful of money he selected six franc pieces.
The other two men bent close above him as he inspected them. Finally he handed them all to Clayton. "Look at them carefully," he said.
The oldest date is eighteen-seventy-five, and there is only one of that year." Clayton and the sailor inspected each coin.
To them there seemed not the slightest difference that could be detected other than the dates. They were quite satisfied.
His hand was under the coat for but a moment, yet those quick, deft fingers had felt of each coin, and found and discarded the fatal piece.
When he brought forth his hand it contained an 1888 franc piece.
Jane Porter leaned forward with a tense and horrified expression on her face as the hand of the man she was to marry groped about beneath the coat.
Presently he withdrew it, a franc piece lying in the palm.
For an instant he dared not look, but Monsieur Thuran, who had leaned nearer to see the date, exclaimed that he was safe. Jane Porter sank weak and trembling against the side of the boat.
She felt sick and dizzy.
And now, if Spider should not draw the 1875 piece she must endure the whole horrid thing again. The sailor already had his hand beneath the coat.
Great beads of sweat were standing upon his brow.
When the sailor withdrew his hand and looked at the piece of money within, he dropped fainting to the bottom of the boat.
Both Clayton and Monsieur Thuran hastened weakly to examine the coin, which had rolled from the man's hand and lay beside him.
It was not dated 1875.
The reaction from the state of fear he had been in had overcome Spider quite as effectually as though he had drawn the fated piece. But now the whole proceeding must be gone through again.
Once more the Russian drew forth a harmless coin.
Jane Porter closed her eyes as Clayton reached beneath the coat.
Spider bent, wide-eyed, toward the hand that was to decide his fate, for whatever luck was Clayton's on this last draw, the opposite would be Spider's.
Then William Cecil Clayton, Lord Greystoke, removed his hand from beneath the coat, and with a coin tight pressed within his palm where none might see it, he looked at Jane Porter.
He did not dare open his hand. "Quick!" hissed Spider.
My Gawd, let's see it." Clayton opened his fingers.
Horrible days of increasing weakness and hopelessness.
At length Monsieur Thuran crawled to where Clayton lay. "We must draw once more before we are too weak even to eat," he whispered. Clayton was in such a state that he was scarcely master of his own will.
Jane Porter had not spoken for three days.
He knew that she was dying.
Miss Porter must not see this thing done.
We were to have been married, you know." A look of disappointment came over Monsieur Thuran's face. "Very well," he replied hesitatingly.
It will not be long until night. I have waited for many days-I can wait a few hours longer." "Thank you, my friend," murmured Clayton.
Now I shall go to her side and remain with her until it is time.
He took her hand and raised it to his cracked and swollen lips.
I have not sufficient strength to gain my hands and knees." "_Sapristi!_" muttered Monsieur Thuran.
You are attempting to cheat me out of my winnings." Clayton heard the man shuffling about in the bottom of the boat. Finally there was a despairing groan.
I cannot crawl," he heard the Russian wail.
You have tricked me, you dirty English dog." "I have not tricked you, monsieur," replied Clayton.
It was quite close now, but there were longer and longer pauses between its efforts to advance, and each forward movement seemed to the waiting Englishman to be almost imperceptible. Finally he knew that Thuran was quite close beside him.
Before he left them he exacted a pledge from them that they would not lead any expeditions against the Waziri in the future, nor was it a difficult promise to obtain.
They followed the course which old Waziri had described to Tarzan.
Behind him stretched the wooded valley across which they had marched for many days, and at the opposite side the low range which marked the boundary of their own country. But before him was the view that centered his attention.
Here lay a desolate valley-a shallow, narrow valley dotted with stunted trees and covered with many great bowlders.
And on the far side of the valley lay what appeared to be a mighty city, its great walls, its lofty spires, its turrets, minarets, and domes showing red and yellow in the sunlight.
There was no trail, but the way was less arduous than the ascent of the opposite face of the mountain had been.
It was still a formidable defense.
On several occasions Tarzan had thought that he discerned things moving behind the ruined portions of the wall near to them, as though creatures were watching them from behind the bulwarks of the ancient pile.
And often he felt the sensation of unseen eyes upon him, but not once could he be sure that it was more than imagination. That night they camped outside the city.
Once, at midnight, they were awakened by a shrill scream from beyond the great wall.
It was very high at first, descending gradually until it ended in a series of dismal moans.
It had a strange effect upon the blacks, almost paralyzing them with terror while it lasted, and it was an hour before the camp settled down to sleep once more.
But at length, by dint of commands, and threats that he would enter the city alone, they agreed to accompany him. For fifteen minutes they marched along the face of the wall before they discovered a means of ingress.
Then they came to a narrow cleft about twenty inches wide.
Behind him trailed his black warriors.
This inner wall was set with little round towers alternating along its entire summit with pointed monoliths.
It was a massive pile, surmounted by an enormous dome.
Dim, shadowy shapes appeared to be moving about in the semi-darkness of the interior.
He wondered if he were not looking upon the ruins of the civilization that this strange people had wrought amid the savage surroundings of their strange and savage home.
Could it be possible that even now a remnant of that lost race inhabited the ruined grandeur that had once been their progenitor?
Again he became conscious of a stealthy movement within the great temple before him.
Come!" he said, to his Waziri.
In places tablets of yellow metal had been set in the solid masonry of the walls. When he approached closer to one of these tablets he saw that it was of gold, and bore many hieroglyphics.
Beyond this first chamber there were others, and back of them the building branched out into enormous wings. Tarzan passed through several of these chambers, finding many evidences of the fabulous wealth of the original builders.
In one room were seven pillars of solid gold, and in another the floor itself was of the precious metal.
They begged Tarzan to return to the sunlight.
They said that no good could come of such an expedition, for the ruins were haunted by the spirits of the dead who had once inhabited them. "They are watching us, O king," whispered Busuli.
They are waiting until they have led us into the innermost recesses of their stronghold, and then they will fall upon us and tear us to pieces with their teeth. That is the way with spirits.
My mother's uncle, who is a great witch doctor, has told me all about it many times." Tarzan laughed.
Run back into the sunlight, my children," he said.
I will join you when I have searched this old ruin from top to bottom, and found the gold, or found that there is none.
At least we may take the tablets from the walls, though the pillars are too heavy for us to handle; but there should be great storerooms filled with gold-gold that we can carry away upon our backs with ease.
And then, quite unexpectedly, that occurred which decided the question without the necessity for further discussion.
But again silence reigned, except for the faint suggestion of the sound of naked feet moving stealthily in near-by places. Then Tarzan wheeled and passed on into the depths of the temple.
There was no window to let in the faintest ray of light, and as the corridor upon which it opened was itself in semi-darkness, even the open door shed no relieving rays within.
Feeling before him upon the floor with the butt of his spear, Tarzan entered the Stygian gloom.
Suddenly the door behind him closed, and at the same time hands clutched him from every direction out of the darkness. The ape-man fought with all the savage fury of self-preservation backed by the herculean strength that was his.
But though he felt his blows land, and his teeth sink into soft flesh, there seemed always two new hands to take the place of those that he fought off.
At last they dragged him down, and slowly, very slowly, they overcame him by the mere weight of their numbers.
And then they bound him-his hands behind his back and his feet trussed up to meet them.
He had heard no sound except the heavy breathing of his antagonists, and the noise of the battle.
Their crooked legs were short and heavy, their arms long and muscular.
About their loins they wore the skins of leopards and lions, and great necklaces of the claws of these same animals depended upon their breasts.
Massive circlets of virgin gold adorned their arms and legs.
Presently those about Tarzan began to dance to the cadence of their solemn song.
Then it was that Tarzan translated the strange ceremony that had preceded his introduction into this holy of holies. He had fallen into the hands of descendants of the ancient sun worshippers.
Then the chant began once more, and presently from a dark passageway beyond the altar another female emerged from the cavernous depths beneath the chamber. The high priestess, thought Tarzan.
She was a young woman with a rather intelligent and shapely face.
In the girdle she carried a long, jeweled knife, and in her hand a slender wand in lieu of a bludgeon. As she advanced to the opposite side of the altar she halted, and the chanting ceased.
With every indication of considerable curiosity she examined him from head to foot.
Then she addressed him, and when she had finished stood waiting, as though she expected a reply. "I do not understand your language," said Tarzan.
Possibly we may speak together in another tongue?
Tarzan could hear him growling and rumbling as he went slowly to the inferior station. Then the priestess, standing above him, began reciting what Tarzan took to be an invocation, the while she slowly raised her thin, sharp knife aloft.
It seemed ages to the ape-man before her arm ceased its upward progress and the knife halted high above his unprotected breast. Then it started downward, slowly at first, but as the incantation increased in rapidity, with greater speed.
At the end of the line Tarzan could still hear the grumbling of the disgruntled priest.
The man's voice rose louder and louder.
A priestess near him spoke in sharp tones of rebuke.
Then that happened which Tarzan had witnessed a hundred times before among the wild denizens of his own savage jungle.
And the woman answered the man in the same language. He was threatening-she attempting to reason with him, for it was quite evident that she saw that he was past her authority.
The brute was quite close now-creeping with clawlike hands extended toward her around the end of the altar.
Tarzan strained at the bonds which held his arms pinioned behind him.
The woman did not see-she had forgotten her prey in the horror of the danger that threatened herself.
As the brute leaped past Tarzan to clutch his victim, the ape-man gave one superhuman wrench at the thongs that held him.
Without even a thought for his own safety, or the possibility for escape which this rapid series of fortuitous circumstances had thrust upon him, Tarzan of the Apes answered the call of the woman in danger.
With foam-flecked lips and bared fangs the mad sun-worshiper battled with the tenfold power of the maniac.
A moment later he threw the still thing from him, and, arising, shook himself like a lion.
She looked about for some means of escape.
For what purpose did you save me from Tha?" "I could not see a woman murdered?
It was a half question that answered her. "But what do you intend to do with me now?" she continued. "Nothing," he replied, "but you can do something for me-you can lead me out of this place to freedom.
He made the suggestion without the slightest thought that she would accede.
You are such a man as I have seen in my daydreams ever since I was a little girl.
I cannot blame YOU for that, no matter what I may think of your creed.
Their cities stretched from a great sea under the rising sun to a great sea into which the sun descends at night to cool his flaming brow.
When the time came for the teeming thousands to return none came.
For weeks the people waited.
Disheartened and unhappy, they soon became a prey to the black hordes of the north and the black hordes of the south.
One by one the cities were deserted or overcome.
The last remnant was finally forced to take shelter within this mighty mountain fortress.
Slowly we have dwindled in power, in civilization, in intellect, in numbers, until now we are no more than a small tribe of savage apes. "In fact, the apes live with us, and have for many ages.
We call them the first men-we speak their language quite as much as we do our own; only in the rituals of the temple do we make any attempt to retain our mother tongue.
It may be because only the lower types of men remained here at the time of the great catastrophe, while the temples were filled with the noblest daughters of the race.
My strain has remained clearer than the rest because for countless ages my foremothers were high priestesses-the sacred office descends from mother to daughter.
Our husbands are chosen for us from the noblest in the land.
Are you going to lead me to liberty?" "You have been chosen by The Flaming God as his own," she answered solemnly.
Not even I have the power to save you-should they find you again.
But I do not intend that they shall find you.
You risked your life to save mine.
I may do no less for you.
It will be no easy matter-it may require days; but in the end I think that I can lead you beyond the walls.
None will think of searching here for you-they would not dare.
I will return after it is dark.
With a start he gained consciousness to find himself wet through by torrents of rain that were falling upon his body and his upturned face.
A heavy tropical shower was beating down upon them.
He opened his mouth and drank.
Presently he was so revived and strengthened that he was enabled to raise himself upon his hands.
Across his legs lay Monsieur Thuran.
A few feet aft Jane Porter was huddled in a pitiful little heap in the bottom of the boat-she was quite still.
Clayton knew that she was dead. After infinite labor he released himself from Thuran's pinioning body, and with renewed strength crawled toward the girl.
He raised her head from the rough boards of the boat's bottom.
There might be life in that poor, starved frame even yet.
He chafed the thin hands, and forced a few more drops of water into the parched throat.
The girl opened her eyes, looking up at him for a long time before she could recall her surroundings. "Water?" she whispered.
Are we saved?" "It is raining," he explained.
We may at least drink.
Already it has revived us both." "Monsieur Thuran?" she asked.
He did not kill you.
Is he dead?" "I do not know," replied Clayton.
For a time neither spoke. "I will see if I can revive him," said Clayton at length. "No," she whispered, extending a detaining hand toward him.
Do not do that-he will kill you when the water has given him strength.
If he is dying, let him die.
Do not leave me alone in this boat with that beast." Clayton hesitated.
His honor demanded that he attempt to revive Thuran, and there was the possibility, too, that the Russian was beyond human aid.
It was not dishonorable to hope so.
Still further invigorated by the food Clayton had brought, the three were able to reach the half shade of the small tree to which their boat was moored.
Here, thoroughly exhausted, they threw themselves down to rest, sleeping until dark. For a month they lived upon the beach in comparative safety.
As their strength returned the two men constructed a rude shelter in the branches of a tree, high enough from the ground to insure safety from the larger beasts of prey.
Clayton dared not leave her alone with him for an instant.
The existence of the Englishman and his fiancee was one continual nightmare of horror, and yet they lived on in hope of ultimate rescue. Jane Porter's thoughts often reverted to her other experience on this savage shore.
Ah, if the invincible forest god of that dead past were but with them now.
No longer would there be aught to fear from prowling beasts, or from the bestial Russian.
He was a poltroon and a coward. To save himself from the righteous wrath of the husband of a woman he had wronged, he perjured his soul in an attempt to place the blame entirely upon her.
Not succeeding in this, he ran away from France to escape meeting the husband upon the field of honor.
That is why he was on board the ship that bore Miss Strong and myself to Cape Town.
I know whereof I speak, for the woman in the case is my sister.
As all the firearms and ammunition on the yacht had been placed in Lord Tennington's boat, the party was well equipped for defense, and for hunting the larger game for food. Professor Archimedes Q.
Porter was their only immediate anxiety.
Philander, to Lord Tennington, "never has Professor Porter been more difficult-er-I might say, impossible.
Why, only this morning, after I had been forced to relinquish my surveillance for a brief half hour he was entirely missing upon my return.
And, bless me, sir, where do you imagine I discovered him?
A half mile out in the ocean, sir, in one of the lifeboats, rowing away for dear life.
Why, Mr. Philander,' he said, 'I am surprised that you, sir, a man of letters yourself, should have the temerity so to interrupt the progress of science.
I had about deduced from certain astronomic phenomena I have had under minute observation during the past several tropic nights an entirely new nebular hypothesis which will unquestionably startle the scientific world.
I wish to consult a very excellent monograph on Laplace's hypothesis, which I understand is in a certain private collection in New York City.
Your interference, Mr. Philander, will result in an irreparable delay, for I was just rowing over to obtain this pamphlet.
He was still the jovial host, seeking always for the comfort and pleasure of his guests.
Thuran acted like one. Nearly two months of this existence had passed when the first great calamity befell them.
Clayton had been into the jungle a few hundred yards in search of food.
As he returned Jane Porter walked to meet him.
Behind the man, cunning and crafty, crept an old and mangy lion.
At last he had found nature's weakest and most defenseless creature-in a moment more Numa would dine. Clayton, all unconscious of the lurking death behind him, strode out into the open toward Jane.
A quick glance behind him revealed the hopelessness of their situation.
The lion was scarce thirty paces from them, and they were equally as far from the shelter.
Run, or I shall be left all alone in this horrible place," and then he broke down and commenced to weep.
For a moment this new voice distracted the attention of the lion, who halted to cast an inquiring glance in the direction of the tree.
Clayton could endure the strain no longer.
Turning his back upon the beast, he buried his head in his arms and waited. The girl looked at him in horror.
Why did he not do something?
If he must die, why not die like a man-bravely; beating at that terrible face with his puny stick, no matter how futile it might be.
Would Tarzan of the Apes have done thus?
Would he not at least have gone down to his death fighting heroically to the last? Now the lion was crouching for the spring that would end their young lives beneath cruel, rending, yellow fangs.
Jane Porter sank to her knees in prayer, closing her eyes to shut out the last hideous instant. Thuran, weak from fever, fainted. Seconds dragged into minutes, long minutes into an eternity, and yet the beast did not spring.
Clayton was almost unconscious from the prolonged agony of fright-his knees trembled-a moment more and he would collapse. Jane Porter could endure it no longer.
Could she be dreaming? "William," she whispered; "look!" Clayton mastered himself sufficiently to raise his head and turn toward the lion.
An ejaculation of surprise burst from his lips.
At their very feet the beast lay crumpled in death.
A heavy war spear protruded from the tawny hide.
It had entered the great back above the right shoulder, and, passing entirely through the body, had pierced the savage heart. Jane Porter had risen to her feet; as Clayton turned back to her she staggered in weakness.
I have lived a thousand years in the past brief moments.
I have learned in the face of death how to live.
What has our providential rescue to do with altering your feelings toward me?
You are but unstrung-tomorrow you will be yourself again." "I am more nearly myself this minute than I have been for over a year," she replied.
The thing that has just happened has again forced to my memory the fact that the bravest man that ever lived honored me with his love.
Until it was too late I did not realize that I returned it, and so I sent him away.
He is dead now, and I shall never marry.
I certainly could not wed another less brave than he without harboring constantly a feeling of contempt for the relative cowardice of my husband.
She bore no light, feeling with her hands along the crumbling walls until she gained the chamber.
Never before has a human sacrifice escaped the altar.
Already fifty have gone forth to track you down.
They have searched the temple-all save this single room." "Why do they fear to come here?" he asked. "It is the Chamber of the Dead.
Here the dead return to worship.
It is here that the dead sacrifice the living-if they find a victim here.
That is the reason our people shun this chamber.
Were one to enter he knows that the waiting dead would seize him for their sacrifice." "But you?" he asked. "I am high priestess-I alone am safe from the dead.
It is I who at rare intervals bring them a human sacrifice from the world above.
I alone may enter here in safety." "Why have they not seized me?" he asked, humoring her grotesque belief. She looked at him quizzically for a moment.
Then she replied: "It is the duty of a high priestess to instruct, to interpret-according to the creed that others, wiser than herself, have laid down; but there is nothing in the creed which says that she must believe.
We must therefore depend entirely upon ourselves, and the sooner we act the better it will be.
I had difficulty in eluding their vigilance but now in bringing you this morsel of food.
To attempt to repeat the thing daily would be the height of folly.
Come, let us see how far we may go toward liberty before I must return." She led him back to the chamber beneath the altar room.
Here she turned into one of the several corridors leading from it.
In the darkness Tarzan could not see which one.
For ten minutes they groped slowly along a winding passage, until at length they came to a closed door. Here he heard her fumbling with a key, and presently came the sound of a metal bolt grating against metal.
The door swung in on scraping hinges, and they entered. "You will be safe here until tomorrow night," she said. Then she went out, and, closing the door, locked it behind her. Where Tarzan stood it was dark as Erebus.
Not even his trained eyes could penetrate the utter blackness.
Cautiously he moved forward until his out-stretched hand touched a wall, then very slowly he traveled around the four walls of the chamber. Apparently it was about twenty feet square.
The floor was of concrete, the walls of the dry masonry that marked the method of construction above ground.
Again he crept carefully around close to the wall.
No, he could not be mistaken!
He paused before the center of the wall opposite the door.
For a moment he stood quite motionless, then he moved a few feet to one side.
Again he returned, only to move a few feet to the other side. Once more he made the entire circuit of the room, feeling carefully every foot of the walls.
Finally he stopped again before the particular section that had aroused his curiosity.
There was no doubt of it!
It was about ten inches wide, with a face some three by six inches showing within the chamber.
One by one the ape-man lifted out similarly shaped stones.
The wall at this point was constructed entirely, it seemed, of these almost perfect slabs.
In a short time he had removed some dozen, when he reached in to test the next layer of masonry.
Directly ahead of him he thought he discerned a faint glow-scarcely more than a less impenetrable darkness.
Cautiously he moved forward on hands and knees, until at about fifteen feet, or the average thickness of the foundation walls, the floor ended abruptly in a sudden drop.
Feeling up along the sides of the shaft as far as he could reach, the ape-man discovered that so much of the wall as he could feel converged toward the center of the shaft as it rose.
Instantly the nature of the shaft became apparent to Tarzan, for far below him he saw the shimmering surface of water.
He wondered if this might not be the mouth of a passage leading to possible escape.
It would be worth investigating, at least, and this he determined to do. Quickly returning to the wall he had demolished to explore what lay beyond it, he carried the stones into the passageway and replaced them from that side.
Some twenty feet below, the level floor of the tunnel recommenced, and shortly afterward his progress was stopped by a heavy wooden door which was secured by massive wooden bars upon the side of Tarzan's approach.
As he pushed the massive obstacle aside, its great hinges shrieked out in weird protest against this unaccustomed disturbance.
To his groping hands they felt not unlike double-headed bootjacks.
Beyond the door the passage ran straight as a war spear, and it soon became evident to the ape-man that it had already led him beyond the outer walls of the temple.
If he but knew the direction it was leading him!
At the bottom this flight was of concrete, but as he ascended his naked feet felt a sudden change in the substance they were treading.
Above him shone the starry sky, and before him a steep incline replaced the steps that had terminated at its foot.
Tarzan dropped his eyes to the ingot he had brought away with him.
The city of the beauties and the beasts.
City of horrors and death; but-city of fabulous riches.
The ingot was of virgin gold. The bowlder on which Tarzan found himself lay well out in the plain between the city and the distant cliffs he and his black warriors had scaled the morning previous.
Far beneath him he saw smoke arising above the tree-tops of the forest at the base of the foothills. "Man," he murmured.
And there were fifty who went forth to track me down.
Can it be they?" Swiftly he descended the face of the cliff, and, dropping into a narrow ravine which led down to the far forest, he hastened onward in the direction of the smoke.
Striking the forest's edge about a quarter of a mile from the point at which the slender column arose into the still air, he took to the trees.
Cautiously he approached until there suddenly burst upon his view a rude _boma_, in the center of which, squatted about their tiny fires, sat his fifty black Waziri.
He called to them in their own tongue: "Arise, my children, and greet thy king!" With exclamations of surprise and fear the warriors leaped to their feet, scarcely knowing whether to flee or not.
Then Tarzan dropped lightly from an overhanging branch into their midst.
When they realized that it was indeed their chief in the flesh, and no materialized spirit, they went mad with joy. "We were cowards, oh, Waziri," cried Busuli.
We ran away and left you to your fate; but when our panic was over we swore to return and save you, or at least take revenge upon your murderers.
They passed us late yesterday, as we were about to turn back after you.
We heard them coming for a mile before we saw them, and as we had other business in hand we withdrew into the forest and let them pass.
They were waddling rapidly along upon short legs, and now and then one would go upon all fours like Bolgani, the gorilla.
Finally the feat was accomplished by dint of herculean efforts upon the part of the ape-man.
From there on the homeward journey was slow, as these proud fighting men were unaccustomed to the duties of porters.
Then from the hollow of an ancient, lightning-blasted tree he produced the very spade with which he had uncovered the chest of Professor Archimedes Q.
Porter which he had once, apelike, buried in this selfsame spot.
Mixed with the man scent was the scent of Numa.
I had better hasten," thought the ape-man, for he had recognized the scent of whites.
Numa may be a-hunting." When he came through the trees to the edge of the jungle he saw a woman kneeling in prayer, and before her stood a wild, primitive-looking white man, his face buried in his arms.
Behind the man a mangy lion was advancing slowly toward this easy prey.
The man's face was averted; the woman's bowed in prayer.
He could not see the features of either. Already Numa was about to spring.
There was not a second to spare. Tarzan could not even unsling his bow and fit an arrow in time to send one of his deadly poisoned shafts into the yellow hide.
He was too far away to reach the beast in time with his knife.
There was but a single hope-a lone alternative.
Without a sound he rolled over at the very feet of his intended victims-dead. For a moment neither the man nor the woman moved.
Then the latter opened her eyes to look with wonder upon the dead beast behind her companion.
As that beautiful head went up Tarzan of the Apes gave a gasp of incredulous astonishment.
It could not be the woman he loved!
The mysterious jungle," she murmured.
It renders even the manifestations of friendship terrifying." "We had best return to the shelter," said Clayton.
You will be at least a little safer there.
I am no protection whatever," he added bitterly. "Do not say that, William," she hastened to urge, acutely sorry for the wound her words had caused.
You have done the best you could.
You have been noble, and self-sacrificing, and brave.
It is no fault of yours that you are not a superman.
There is only one other man I have ever known who could have done more than you.
My words were ill chosen in the excitement of the reaction-I did not wish to wound you.
All that I wish is that we may both understand once and for all that I can never marry you-that such a marriage would be wicked." "I think I understand," he replied.
Let us not speak of it again-at least until we are back in civilization." The next day Thuran was worse.
Almost constantly he was in a state of delirium.
They could do nothing to relieve him, nor was Clayton over-anxious to attempt anything.
On the girl's account he feared the Russian-in the bottom of his heart he hoped the man would die.
Little, bloodshot, close-set eyes scanned her intently, roving from time to time about the open beach for indications of the presence of others than herself. Presently another head appeared, and then another and another.
The man in the shelter commenced to rave again, and the heads disappeared as silently and as suddenly as they had come.
But soon they were thrust forth once more, as the girl gave no sign of perturbation at the continued wailing of the man above. One by one grotesque forms emerged from the jungle to creep stealthily upon the unsuspecting woman.
A faint rustling of the grasses attracted her attention.
She turned, and at the sight that confronted her staggered to her feet with a little shriek of fear.
Then they closed upon her with a rush.
Lifting her bodily in his long, gorilla-like arms, one of the creatures turned and bore her into the jungle.
A filthy paw covered her mouth to stifle her screams.
Added to the weeks of torture she had already undergone, the shock was more than she could withstand.
Shattered nerves collapsed, and she lost consciousness.
When she regained her senses she found herself in the thick of the primeval forest.
A huge fire burned brightly in the little clearing in which she lay.
About it squatted fifty frightful men.
Their heads and faces were covered with matted hair.
Their long arms rested upon the bent knees of their short, crooked legs.
They were gnawing, like beasts, upon unclean food.
It rolled close to her side, but she only closed her eyes as a qualm of nausea surged through her. For many days they traveled through the dense forest.
The girl, footsore and exhausted, was half dragged, half pushed through the long, hot, tedious days.
Occasionally, when she would stumble and fall, she was cuffed and kicked by the nearest of the frightful men.
Long before they reached their journey's end her shoes had been discarded-the soles entirely gone.
Wherever they were bearing her, there could be but one end to her captivity among these fierce half brutes. At last they passed through two great walls and came to the ruined city within.
Into a crumbling pile they bore her, and here she was surrounded by hundreds more of the same creatures that had brought her; but among them were females who looked less horrible.
At sight of them the first faint hope that she had entertained came to mitigate her misery.
Slowly her strength was returning-soon she would be in fit condition to offer as a sacrifice to The Flaming God.
Only the fraction of a second had stood between Clayton and death at the hands of the ape-man.
A thousand times he gave thanks that they had triumphed before his fingers had released that polished arrow. As he contemplated his return to the Waziri the idea became repugnant. He did not wish to see a human being again.
At least he would range alone through the jungle for a time, until the sharp edge of his sorrow had become blunted.
Like his fellow beasts, he preferred to suffer in silence and alone. That night he slept again in the amphitheater of the apes, and for several days he hunted from there, returning at night.
On the afternoon of the third day he returned early.
He had lain stretched upon the soft grass of the circular clearing for but a few moments when he heard far to the south a familiar sound.
It was the passing through the jungle of a band of great apes-he could not mistake that.
For several minutes he lay listening.
They were coming in the direction of the amphitheater. Tarzan arose lazily and stretched himself.
His keen ears followed every movement of the advancing tribe.
There he waited to inspect the newcomers.
Nor had he long to wait. Presently a fierce, hairy face appeared among the lower branches opposite him.
The cruel little eyes took in the clearing at a glance, then there was a chattered report returned to those behind.
Tarzan could hear the words.
A few nursing babes clung close to the shaggy necks of their savage mothers. Tarzan recognized many members of the tribe.
It was the same into which he had come as a tiny babe.
Many of the adults had been little apes during his boyhood.
He had frolicked and played about this very jungle with them during their brief childhood.
With a barking guttural she called the attention of the others.
Several huge bulls stood erect to get a better view of the intruder.
With bared fangs and bristling necks they advanced slowly toward him, with deep-throated, ominous growls. "Karnath, I am Tarzan of the Apes," said the ape-man in the vernacular of the tribe.
Am I not the same Tarzan-mighty hunter-invincible fighter-that you all knew for many seasons?" The apes all crowded forward now, but more in curiosity than threatening.
They muttered among themselves for a few moments. "What do you want among us now?" asked Karnath. "Only peace," answered the ape-man. Again the apes conferred.
Instead, he swung his giant palm with all the force of his mighty muscles, and, catching the young bull alongside the head, sent him sprawling across the turf.
For several days the she-apes with young remained suspicious of him, and when he ventured too near rushed upon him with wide mouths and hideous roars.
Then Tarzan discreetly skipped out of harm's way, for that also is a custom among the apes-only mad bulls will attack a mother.
And so it was that before they left the amphitheater to return to their wanderings they had once more chosen him as their leader. The ape-man felt quite contented with his new lot.
He had foresworn humanity forever.
That she was illy protected he had seen in the brief instant that had witnessed Clayton's inefficiency.
The more Tarzan thought of it, the more keenly his conscience pricked him. Finally he came to loathe himself for permitting his own selfish sorrow and jealousy to stand between Jane Porter and safety.
He found Monsieur Thuran quite rational, the fever having left him with the surprising suddenness which is one of its peculiarities.
The Russian, weak and exhausted, still lay upon his bed of grasses within the shelter. When Clayton asked him about the girl he seemed surprised to know that she was not there. "I have heard nothing unusual," he said.
Fortunately the man saw the shadowy form worming its way toward him in time to climb into the branches of a tree before the beast was close enough to reach him.
The next morning he returned to the beach, relinquishing the last hope of succoring Jane Porter. During the week that followed, Monsieur Thuran rapidly regained his strength, lying in the shelter while Clayton hunted food for both.
The men never spoke except as necessity demanded.
For days he lay tossing in delirium and suffering, but not once did the Russian come near him.
Food the Englishman could not have eaten, but his craving for water amounted practically to torture.
At last Clayton became so weak that he was no longer able to descend from the shelter.
For a day he suffered for water without appealing to the Russian, but finally, unable to endure it longer, he asked Thuran to fetch him a drink.
The Russian came to the entrance to Clayton's room, a dish of water in his hand.
A nasty grin contorted his features. "Here is water," he said.
But first let me remind you that you maligned me before the girl-that you kept her to yourself, and would not share her with me-" Clayton interrupted him.
What manner of cur are you that you traduce the character of a good woman whom we believe dead!
I was a fool ever to let you live-you are not fit to live even in this vile land." "Here is your water," said the Russian.
All you will get," and he raised the basin to his lips and drank; what was left he threw out upon the ground below.
So he stole Clayton's spear and set off upon his journey.
I, who have known him all my life, know how he worships Jane; but to others it must seem that he is perfectly callous to her fate.
I am going into town, Lord Tennington,' he said, as seriously as possible, 'to complain to the postmaster about the rural free delivery service we are suffering from here.
Why, sir, I haven't had a piece of mail in weeks.
There should be several letters for me from Jane.
That was not at all what he meant.
He wondered if, after all, Thuran had been quite accurate in his statement.
He had never seen the slightest indication on the girl's part of more than ordinary friendship. "And then in Monsieur Thuran's loss, if they are lost, you would suffer a severe bereavement," he ventured. She looked up at him quickly.
Monsieur Thuran had become a very dear friend," she said.
I liked him very much, though I have known him but a short time." "Then you were not engaged to marry him?" he blurted out. "Heavens, no!" she cried.
Tennington and the girl saw it at the same time.
The three sailors died before we made land.
Miss Porter was carried off into the jungle by some wild animal while I was lying delirious with fever.
Clayton died of the same fever but a few days since.
And to think that all this time we have been separated by but a few miles-scarcely a day's march.
It is terrible!" How long Jane Porter lay in the darkness of the vault beneath the temple in the ancient city of Opar she did not know.
For a time she was delirious with fever, but after this passed she commenced slowly to regain her strength.
Her captors now watched her with increasing interest.
The day was approaching, and the victim was gaining in strength. Presently the day came, and a young woman whom Jane Porter had not seen before came with several others to her dungeon.
And as they stooped and bound her ankles, and secured her wrists behind her, her doubts were turned to fear.
The "bulls" he had recognized from the ape's crude description as the grotesque parodies upon humanity who inhabit the ruins of Opar.
And the girl's fate he could picture as plainly as though he were an eyewitness to it.
At a rapid trot he started across the dry and dusty, bowlder-strewn ground toward the goal of his desires. Would he be in time to rescue?
At least he could be revenged, and in his wrath it seemed to him that he was equal to the task of wiping out the entire population of that terrible city.
It was nearly noon when he reached the great bowlder at the top of which terminated the secret passage to the pits beneath the city.
Like a cat he scaled the precipitous sides of the frowning granite _kopje_.
A moment later he was running through the darkness of the long, straight tunnel that led to the treasure vault.
His quick ears caught and translated it-it was the dance of death that preceded a sacrifice, and the singsong ritual of the high priestess.
He could even recognize the woman's voice.
Could it be that the ceremony marked the very thing he had so hastened to prevent?
A wave of horror swept over him.
Was he, after all, to be just a moment too late?
Like a frightened deer he leaped across the narrow chasm to the continuation of the passage beyond.
The mighty bars upon the other side were proof even against such muscles as his.
It needed but a moment's effort to convince him of the futility of endeavoring to force that impregnable barrier.
But there seemed no other way, and so he turned and ran swiftly back into the passageway beyond the broken wall.
In the instant's pause and thought an idea occurred to him.
Turning back to the tumbled wall, he seized one of the large, flat slabs that had composed it.
The moment his full weight came upon the rope he felt it slip from above.
He waited there in awful suspense as it dropped in little jerks, inch by inch.
Gingerly the ape-man clambered up the frail rope.
In a moment his head was above the edge of the shaft.
The inhabitants of Opar were viewing the sacrifice.
Tarzan could hear the voice of La from the nearby sacrificial court.
La's hand was descending slowly toward the bosom of the frail, quiet figure that lay stretched upon the hard stone.
Tarzan gave a gasp that was almost a sob as he recognized the features of the girl he loved.
The hand of La had paused at the first noise of interruption.
When she saw who the author of it was she went white.
She had never been able to fathom the secret of the strange white man's escape from the dungeon in which she had locked him.
That would satisfy the people of Opar, she knew.
And now he had returned-materialized from thin air-and was killing her priests as though they had been sheep.
For the moment she forgot her victim, and before she could gather her wits together again the huge white man was standing before her, the woman who had lain upon the altar in his arms. "One side, La," he cried.
Jane Porter was still unconscious. At the crest of the great bowlder he halted to cast a backward glance toward the city.
Coming across the plain he saw a band of the hideous men of Opar.
For a moment he hesitated.
Should he descend and make a race for the distant cliffs, or should he hide here until night?
And then a glance at the girl's white face determined him.
Occasionally he would glance at the face so near his own.
But this time they did not pursue beyond the boundary of their own country.
She did not open her eyes at once-she was trying to recall the scenes that she had last witnessed.
The altar, the terrible priestess, the descending knife.
She gave a little shudder, for she thought that either this was death or that the knife had buried itself in her heart and she was experiencing the brief delirium preceding death.
And when finally she mustered courage to open her eyes, the sight that met them confirmed her fears, for she saw that she was being borne through a leafy paradise in the arms of her dead love.
If this be death," she murmured, "thank God that I am dead." "You spoke, Jane!" cried Tarzan.
I was in time, after all." "In time?
What do you mean?" she questioned. "In time to save you from death upon the altar, dear," he replied.
Do you not remember?" "Save me from death?" she asked, in a puzzled tone.
Are we not both dead, my Tarzan?" He had placed her upon the grass by now, her back resting against the stem of a huge tree.
At her question he stepped back where he could the better see her face. "Dead!" he repeated, and then he laughed.
You are not, Jane; and if you will return to the city of Opar and ask them who dwell there they will tell you that I was not dead a few short hours ago.
The past, with all its hideous disappointments and horrors, was forgotten-the future did not belong to them; but the present-ah, it was theirs; none could take it from them.
It was the girl who first broke the sweet silence. "Where are we going, dear?" she asked.
What are we going to do?" "Where would you like best to go?" he asked.
What would you like best to do?" "To go where you go, my man; to do whatever seems best to you," she answered. "But Clayton?" he asked.
For a moment he had forgotten that there existed upon the earth other than they two.
We have forgotten your husband." "I am not married, Tarzan of the Apes," she cried.
Nor am I longer promised in marriage.
The day before those awful creatures captured me I spoke to Mr. Clayton of my love for you, and he understood then that I could not keep the wicked promise that I had made.
It was after we had been miraculously saved from an attacking lion.
She paused suddenly and looked up at him, a questioning light in her eyes.
Tarzan of the Apes," she cried, "it was you who did that thing?
It could have been no other." He dropped his eyes, for he was ashamed. "How could you have gone away and left me?" she cried reproachfully. "Don't, Jane!" he pleaded.
You cannot know how I have suffered since for the cruelty of that act, or how I suffered then, first in jealous rage, and then in bitter resentment against the fate that I had not deserved.
I went back to the apes after that, Jane, intending never again to see a human being.
He narrated every detail of his civilized life to her, omitting nothing, for he felt no shame, since his heart always had been true to her.
When he had finished he sat looking at her, as though waiting for her judgment, and his sentence. "I knew that he was not speaking the truth," she said.
Not one-tenth so beautiful as you, dear," he said. She gave a contented little sigh, and let her head rest against his shoulder.
Where the way was easy they walked hand in hand beneath the arching boughs of the mighty forest, as might in a far-gone past have walked their primeval forbears.
When the underbrush was tangled he took her in his great arms, and bore her lightly through the trees, and the days were all too short, for they were very happy.
He told the girl, and cautioned her to maintain silence.
There are few friends in the jungle," he remarked dryly. In half an hour they came stealthily upon a small party of black warriors filing toward the west.
As Tarzan saw them he gave a cry of delight-it was a band of his own Waziri.
Busuli was there, and others who had accompanied him to Opar.
At sight of him they danced and cried out in exuberant joy.
With the happy Waziri laughing and dancing about them they came to the rude shelter by the shore. There was no sign of life, and no response to their calls.
Tarzan clambered quickly to the interior of the little tree hut, only to emerge a moment later with an empty tin.
Throwing it down to Busuli, he told him to fetch water, and then he beckoned Jane Porter to come up. Together they leaned over the emaciated thing that once had been an English nobleman.
Tears came to the girl's eyes as she saw the poor, sunken cheeks and hollow eyes, and the lines of suffering upon the once young and handsome face. "He still lives," said Tarzan.
We will do all that can be done for him, but I fear that we are too late." When Busuli had brought the water Tarzan forced a few drops between the cracked and swollen lips.
He wetted the hot forehead and bathed the pitiful limbs. Presently Clayton opened his eyes.
A faint, shadowy smile lighted his countenance as he saw the girl leaning over him.
At sight of Tarzan the expression changed to one of wonderment. "It's all right, old fellow," said the ape-man.
We've found you in time.
Everything will be all right now, and we'll have you on your feet again before you know it." The Englishman shook his head weakly.
It's too late," he whispered. "But it's just as well.
I'd rather die." "Where is Monsieur Thuran?" asked the girl. "He left me after the fever got bad.
When I begged for the water that I was too weak to get he drank before me, threw the rest out, and laughed in my face.
At the thought of it the man was suddenly animated by a spark of vitality.
He raised himself upon one elbow. "Yes," he almost shouted; "I will live.
I will live long enough to find and kill that beast!
He belongs to me, and I shall get him in the end, never fear." For a long time Clayton lay very still.
Several times Tarzan had to put his ear quite close to the sunken chest to catch the faint beating of the worn-out heart.
Toward evening he aroused again for a brief moment. "Jane," he whispered.
The girl bent her head closer to catch the faint message.
I have wronged you-and him," he nodded weakly toward the ape-man.
I loved you so-it is a poor excuse to offer for injuring you; but I could not bear to think of giving you up.
I do not ask your forgiveness.
I only wish to do now the thing I should have done over a year ago.
He fumbled in the pocket of the ulster beneath him for something that he had discovered there while he lay between the paroxysms of fever.
Presently he found it-a crumpled bit of yellow paper.
He handed it to the girl, and as she took it his arm fell limply across his chest, his head dropped back, and with a little gasp he stiffened and was still.
Twice she read those startling words before she could fully comprehend their meaning. Finger prints prove you Greystoke.
Congratulations. D'ARNOT. She handed the paper to Tarzan.
And he has known it all this time," she said, "and did not tell you?" "I knew it first, Jane," replied the man.
I did not know that he knew it at all.
I must have dropped this message that night in the waiting room.
And if I had taken them away from him I should have been robbing the woman I love-don't you understand, Jane?
At the sound of her voice the old man looked up, and when he saw who it was confronting him he, too, cried out in relief and happiness.
Monsieur Thuran assured us that Clayton passed away many days ago." "Thuran is with you?" asked Tarzan. "Yes; he but recently found us and led us to your cabin.
We were camped but a short distance north of it.
Bless me, but he will be delighted to see you both." "And surprised," commented Tarzan. A short time later the strange party came to the clearing in which stood the ape-man's cabin.
It was filled with people coming and going, and almost the first whom Tarzan saw was D'Arnot. "Paul!" he cried.
In the name of sanity what are you doing here?
Or are we all insane?" It was quickly explained, however, as were many other seemingly strange things.
On landing they had found Lord Tennington's party, and arrangements were being made to take them all on board the following morning, and carry them back to civilization. Hazel Strong and her mother, Esmeralda, and Mr. Samuel T.
Philander were almost overcome by happiness at Jane Porter's safe return.
Her escape seemed to them little short of miraculous, and it was the consensus of opinion that it could have been achieved by no other man than Tarzan of the Apes.
Even your friends would have to submit to your arrest, or if you resisted it would plunge us all into misery and unhappiness again.
A half hour later Rokoff and Tennington emerged from the jungle.
Captain Dufranne, Lieutenant D'Arnot, and a dozen sailors had rushed up at the sound of the shot, and now Tarzan turned the Russian over to them without a word.
About the grave, with bowed heads, stood as strange a company of mourners as the sun ever looked down upon.
It was plain, however, that frequent publication must finally wear out the public favour, unless some mode could be devised to give an appearance of novelty to subsequent productions.
Scottish manners, Scottish dialect, and Scottish characters of note, being those with which the author was most intimately, and familiarly acquainted, were the groundwork upon which he had hitherto relied for giving effect to his narrative.
The public are, in general, very ready to adopt the opinion, that he who has pleased them in one peculiar mode of composition, is, by means of that very talent, rendered incapable of venturing upon other subjects.
If the mine be not wrought out, the strength and capacity of the miner become necessarily exhausted.
I mean the meeting of the King with Friar Tuck at the cell of that buxom hermit.
The French minstrels are not silent on so popular a theme. There must have been a Norman original of the Scottish metrical romance of Rauf Colziar, in which Charlemagne is introduced as the unknown guest of a charcoal-man.
2 It seems to have been the original of other poems of the kind. In merry England there is no end of popular ballads on this theme.
From thence it has been transferred by the Reverend Charles Henry Hartshorne, M.A., editor of a very curious volume, entitled "Ancient Metrical Tales, printed chiefly from original sources, 1829.
Mr Hartshorne gives no other authority for the present fragment, except the article in the Bibliographer, where it is entitled the Kyng and the Hermite.
Edward puts up his orisons accordingly, and by the guidance, doubtless, of the good Saint, reaches a small path, conducting him to a chapel in the forest, having a hermit's cell in its close vicinity.
The King hears the reverend man, with a companion of his solitude, telling his beads within, and meekly requests of him quarters for the night.
I have no accommodation for such a lord as ye be," said the Hermit.
I live here in the wilderness upon roots and rinds, and may not receive into my dwelling even the poorest wretch that lives, unless it were to save his life.
Edward answers by fresh assurances of secrecy, and again urges on him the necessity of procuring some venison.
But acknowledging his guest to be such a "good fellow" as has seldom graced his board, the holy man at length produces the best his cell affords.
Two candles are placed on a table, white bread and baked pasties are displayed by the light, besides choice of venison, both salt and fresh, from which they select collops.
The one toper says "fusty bandias", to which the other is obliged to reply, "strike pantnere", and the Friar passes many jests on the King's want of memory, who sometimes forgets the words of action.
The night is spent in this jolly pastime.
After the Hermit has shown Edward some feats of archery, the joyous pair separate.
The King rides home, and rejoins his retinue.
All novelists have had occasion at some time or other to wish with Falstaff, that they knew where a commodity of good names was to be had.
He presumes to hold this last quality to be of no small importance.
What is called a taking title, serves the direct interest of the bookseller or publisher, who by this means sometimes sells an edition while it is yet passing the press.
In this he is probably disappointed, and in that case may be naturally disposed to visit upon the author or the work, the unpleasant feelings thus excited.
I am conscious, however, that the slight, unsatisfactory, and trivial manner, in which the result of my antiquarian researches has been recorded in the following pages, takes the work from under that class which bears the proud motto, "Detur digniori".
It was not above sixty or seventy years, you observed, since the whole north of Scotland was under a state of government nearly as simple and as patriarchal as those of our good allies the Mohawks and Iroquois.
Having thus materials of every kind lying strewed around him, there was little, you observed, to embarrass the author, but the difficulty of choice.
The Kendal green, though its date is more ancient, ought surely to be as dear to our feelings, as the variegated tartans of the north.
You insisted upon the advantages which the Scotsman possessed, from the very recent existence of that state of society in which his scene was to be laid.
Many now alive, you remarked, well remembered persons who had not only seen the celebrated Roy M'Gregor, but had feasted, and even fought with him.
To match an English and a Scottish author in the rival task of embodying and reviving the traditions of their respective countries, would be, you alleged, in the highest degree unequal and unjust.
You expressed, besides, your apprehension, that the unpatriotic prejudices of my countrymen would not allow fair play to such a work as that of which I endeavoured to demonstrate the probable success.
But permit me to say, my dear Doctor, that this objection is rather formal than substantial.
It is true, that such slight compositions might not suit the severer genius of our friend Mr Oldbuck.
Yet Horace Walpole wrote a goblin tale which has thrilled through many a bosom; and George Ellis could transfer all the playful fascination of a humour, as delightful as it was uncommon, into his Abridgement of the Ancient Metrical Romances.
In this, I respectfully contend, I have in no respect exceeded the fair license due to the author of a fictitious composition.
This was the error of the unfortunate Chatterton.
In order to give his language the appearance of antiquity, he rejected every word that was modern, and produced a dialect entirely different from any that had ever been spoken in Great Britain.
The freedom of choice which this allows him, is therefore much greater, and the difficulty of his task much more diminished, than at first appears.
To take an illustration from a sister art, the antiquarian details may be said to represent the peculiar features of a landscape under delineation of the pencil.
His general colouring, too, must be copied from Nature: The sky must be clouded or serene, according to the climate, and the general tints must be those which prevail in a natural landscape.
The painter must introduce no ornament inconsistent with the climate or country of his landscape; he must not plant cypress trees upon Inch-Merrin, or Scottish firs among the ruins of Persepolis; and the author lies under a corresponding restraint.
His language must not be exclusively obsolete and unintelligible; but he should admit, if possible, no word or turn of phraseology betraying an origin directly modern.
Several curiosities have been lately dug up near the wall, as well as at the ancient station of Habitancum.
Talking of the latter, I suppose you have long since heard the news, that a sulky churlish boor has destroyed the ancient statue, or rather bas-relief, popularly called Robin of Redesdale.
It seems Robin's fame attracted more visitants than was consistent with the growth of the heather, upon a moor worth a shilling an acre.
Tell this not in Gath, lest the Scots rejoice that they have at length found a parallel instance among their neighbours, to that barbarous deed which demolished Arthur's Oven.
But there is no end to lamentation, when we betake ourselves to such subjects.
My respectful compliments attend Miss Dryasdust; I endeavoured to match the spectacles agreeable to her commission, during my late journey to London, and hope she has received them safe, and found them satisfactory.
I send this by the blind carrier, so that probably it may be some time upon its journey.
Once more adieu; "vale tandem, non immemor mei".
The remains of this extensive wood are still to be seen at the noble seats of Wentworth, of Warncliffe Park, and around Rotherham.
The power had been completely placed in the hands of the Norman nobility, by the event of the battle of Hastings, and it had been used, as our histories assure us, with no moderate hand.
At court, and in the castles of the great nobles, where the pomp and state of a court was emulated, Norman-French was the only language employed; in courts of law, the pleadings and judgments were delivered in the same tongue.
In short, French was the language of honour, of chivalry, and even of justice, while the far more manly and expressive Anglo-Saxon was abandoned to the use of rustics and hinds, who knew no other.
Seven stood upright; the rest had been dislodged from their places, probably by the zeal of some convert to Christianity, and lay, some prostrate near their former site, and others on the side of the hill.
The eldest of these men had a stern, savage, and wild aspect.
In the same belt was stuck one of those long, broad, sharp-pointed, and two-edged knives, with a buck's-horn handle, which were fabricated in the neighbourhood, and bore even at this early period the name of a Sheffield whittle.
His jacket had been stained of a bright purple hue, upon which there had been some attempt to paint grotesque ornaments in different colours.
He had thin silver bracelets upon his arms, and on his neck a collar of the same metal bearing the inscription, "Wamba, the son of Witless, is the thrall of Cedric of Rotherwood.
This personage had the same sort of sandals with his companion, but instead of the roll of leather thong, his legs were cased in a sort of gaiters, of which one was red and the other yellow.
He bore, like his companion, a scrip, attached to his belt, but had neither horn nor knife, being probably considered as belonging to a class whom it is esteemed dangerous to intrust with edge-tools.
The dialogue which they maintained between them, was carried on in Anglo-Saxon, which, as we said before, was universally spoken by the inferior classes, excepting the Norman soldiers, and the immediate personal dependants of the great feudal nobles.
The curse of St Withold upon them and upon me!" said Gurth; "if the two-legged wolf snap not up some of them ere nightfall, I am no true man.
A devil draw the teeth of him," said Gurth, "and the mother of mischief confound the Ranger of the forest, that cuts the foreclaws off our dogs, and makes them unfit for their trade!
The horsemen, therefore, soon overtook them on the road. Their numbers amounted to ten men, of whom the two who rode foremost seemed to be persons of considerable importance, and the others their attendants.
It was not difficult to ascertain the condition and character of one of these personages.
His countenance bore as little the marks of self-denial, as his habit indicated contempt of worldly splendour.
His features might have been called good, had there not lurked under the pent-house of his eye, that sly epicurean twinkle which indicates the cautious voluptuary.
In other respects, his profession and situation had taught him a ready command over his countenance, which he could contract at pleasure into solemnity, although its natural expression was that of good-humoured social indulgence.
In his seat he had nothing of the awkwardness of the convent, but displayed the easy and habitual grace of a well-trained horseman.
Indeed, it seemed that so humble a conveyance as a mule, in however good case, and however well broken to a pleasant and accommodating amble, was only used by the gallant monk for travelling on the road.
The saddle and housings of this superb palfrey were covered by a long foot-cloth, which reached nearly to the ground, and on which were richly embroidered, mitres, crosses, and other ecclesiastical emblems.
His countenance was therefore fully displayed, and its expression was calculated to impress a degree of awe, if not of fear, upon strangers.
On the right shoulder of the mantle there was cut, in white cloth, a cross of a peculiar form.
On one side of the saddle hung a short battle-axe, richly inlaid with Damascene carving; on the other the rider's plumed head-piece and hood of mail, with a long two-handed sword, used by the chivalry of the period.
A second squire held aloft his master's lance, from the extremity of which fluttered a small banderole, or streamer, bearing a cross of the same form with that embroidered upon his cloak.
He also carried his small triangular shield, broad enough at the top to protect the breast, and from thence diminishing to a point.
Silk and embroidery distinguished their dresses, and marked the wealth and importance of their master; forming, at the same time, a striking contrast with the martial simplicity of his own attire.
They were armed with crooked sabres, having the hilt and baldric inlaid with gold, and matched with Turkish daggers of yet more costly workmanship.
Even the common people, the severest critics of the conduct of their betters, had commiseration with the follies of Prior Aymer.
He was generous; and charity, as it is well known, covereth a multitude of sins, in another sense than that in which it is said to do so in Scripture.
Remember what I told you: this wealthy franklin is proud, fierce, jealous, and irritable, a withstander of the nobility, and even of his neighbors, Reginald Front-de-Boeuf and Philip Malvoisin, who are no babies to strive with.
Her guardian, however, he is, self-constituted as I believe; but his ward is as dear to him as if she were his own child.
And be careful how you look on Rowena, whom he cherishes with the most jealous care; an he take the least alarm in that quarter we are but lost men.
A deep fosse, or ditch, was drawn round the whole building, and filled with water from a neighbouring stream.
A double stockade, or palisade, composed of pointed beams, which the adjacent forest supplied, defended the outer and inner bank of the trench.
There was an entrance from the west through the outer stockade, which communicated by a drawbridge, with a similar opening in the interior defences.
The constant vapour which this occasioned, had polished the rafters and beams of the low-browed hall, by encrusting them with a black varnish of soot.
The floor was composed of earth mixed with lime, trodden into a hard substance, such as is often employed in flooring our modern barns.
The whole resembled the form of the letter T, or some of those ancient dinner-tables, which, arranged on the same principles, may be still seen in the antique Colleges of Oxford or Cambridge.
His feet had sandals of the same fashion with the peasants, but of finer materials, and secured in the front with golden clasps.
He had bracelets of gold upon his arms, and a broad collar of the same precious metal around his neck.
About his waist he wore a richly-studded belt, in which was stuck a short straight two-edged sword, with a sharp point, so disposed as to hang almost perpendicularly by his side.
Behind his seat was hung a scarlet cloth cloak lined with fur, and a cap of the same materials richly embroidered, which completed the dress of the opulent landholder when he chose to go forth.
Even he was repelled by the stern command, "Down, Balder, down!
I am not in the humour for foolery." In fact, Cedric, as we have observed, was in no very placid state of mind.
The Lady Rowena, who had been absent to attend an evening mass at a distant church, had but just returned, and was changing her garments, which had been wetted by the storm.
Add to all this, Cedric had fasted since noon, and his usual supper hour was long past, a cause of irritation common to country squires, both in ancient and modern times.
I suppose we shall have an evil account of the herd; he was wont to be a faithful and cautious drudge, and I had destined him for something better; perchance I might even have made him one of my warders.
I shall hear, I guess, that my property has been swept off to save from starving the hungry banditti, whom they cannot support but by theft and robbery.
Fools are we all indeed that serve them, and fitter subjects for their scorn and laughter, than if we were born with but half our wits.
The reflection seemed to conjure into sadness his irritated feelings.
Look after their horses and mules, and see their train lack nothing.
His brother sits in the seat, and usurps the patrimony, of a better race, the race of Ulfgar of Middleham; but what Norman lord doth not the same?
This Prior is, they say, a free and jovial priest, who loves the wine-cup and the bugle-horn better than bell and book: Good; let him come, he shall be welcome.
They say he is valiant as the bravest of his order; but stained with their usual vices, pride, arrogance, cruelty, and voluptuousness; a hard-hearted man, who knows neither fear of earth, nor awe of heaven.
He only replied, "Silence, maiden; thy tongue outruns thy discretion.
Say my message to thy mistress, and let her do her pleasure.
Here, at least, the descendant of Alfred still reigns a princess.
Elgitha left the apartment. "Palestine!" repeated the Saxon; "Palestine! how many ears are turned to the tales which dissolute crusaders, or hypocritical pilgrims, bring from that fatal land!
He had exchanged his shirt of mail for an under tunic of dark purple silk, garnished with furs, over which flowed his long robe of spotless white, in ample folds.
The eight-pointed cross of his order was cut on the shoulder of his mantle in black velvet.
A cloak or mantle of coarse black serge, enveloped his whole body.
It was in shape something like the cloak of a modern hussar, having similar flaps for covering the arms, and was called a "Sclaveyn", or "Sclavonian".
But my steward has expounded to you the cause of my seeming discourtesy.
Vows are the knots which tie us to Heaven-they are the cords which bind the sacrifice to the horns of the altar,-and are therefore,-as I said before,-to be unloosened and discharged, unless our holy Mother Church shall pronounce the contrary.
Send these loitering knaves up hither," said the Saxon, impatiently.
And when the culprits came before the dais,-"How comes it, villains! that you have loitered abroad so late as this?
He caught Fangs strolling in the forest, and said he chased the deer contrary to his master's right, as warden of the walk." "The foul fiend take Malvoisin," answered the Saxon, "and his keeper both!
I will teach them that the wood was disforested in terms of the great Forest Charter.
I am beset here with neighbours that match your infidels, Sir Knight, in Holy Land.
But your homely fare is before you; feed, and let welcome make amends for hard fare." The feast, however, which was spread upon the board, needed no apologies from the lord of the mansion.
All stood up to receive her; and, replying to their courtesy by a mute gesture of salutation, she moved gracefully forward to assume her place at the board.
Ere she had time to do so, the Templar whispered to the Prior, "I shall wear no collar of gold of yours at the tournament.
Her complexion was exquisitely fair, but the noble cast of her head and features prevented the insipidity which sometimes attaches to fair beauties.
Her clear blue eye, which sat enshrined beneath a graceful eyebrow of brown sufficiently marked to give expression to the forehead, seemed capable to kindle as well as melt, to command as well as to beseech.
Her profuse hair, of a colour betwixt brown and flaxen, was arranged in a fanciful and graceful manner in numerous ringlets, to form which art had probably aided nature.
These locks were braided with gems, and, being worn at full length, intimated the noble birth and free-born condition of the maiden.
A golden chain, to which was attached a small reliquary of the same metal, hung round her neck.
She wore bracelets on her arms, which were bare.
Her dress was an under-gown and kirtle of pale sea-green silk, over which hung a long loose robe, which reached to the ground, having very wide sleeves, which came down, however, very little below the elbow.
This robe was crimson, and manufactured out of the very finest wool.
Cedric saw the motion and its cause.
Let me hope she will be less cruel to the splendid train which are to meet at the tournament." "Our going thither," said Cedric, "is uncertain.
We must have you whipt; you are at least as much rogue as fool." "I pray thee, uncle," answered the Jester, "let my folly, for once, protect my roguery.
Let his wants be ministered to with all care-look to it, Oswald." And the steward left the banqueting hall to see the commands of his patron obeyed. CHAPTER V Hath not a Jew eyes?
Hath not a Jew hands, organs, dimensions, senses, affections, passions?
If Heaven bore with the whole nation of stiff-necked unbelievers for more years than a layman can number, we may endure the presence of one Jew for a few hours.
He had large boots lined with fur, and a belt around his waist, which sustained a small knife, together with a case for writing materials, but no weapon.
Cedric himself coldly nodded in answer to the Jew's repeated salutations, and signed to him to take place at the lower end of the table, where, however, no one offered to make room for him.
To the memory of the brave who fought there!-Pledge me, my guests.
He drank deep, and went on with increasing warmth.
Ay, that was a day of cleaving of shields, when a hundred banners were bent forwards over the heads of the valiant, and blood flowed round like water, and death was held better than flight.
A Saxon bard had called it a feast of the swords-a gathering of the eagles to the prey-the clashing of bills upon shield and helmet, the shouting of battle more joyful than the clamour of a bridal.
I say besides, for I saw it, that King Richard himself, and five of his knights, held a tournament after the taking of St John-de-Acre, as challengers against all comers.
I say that, on that day, each knight ran three courses, and cast to the ground three antagonists.
In the extremity of his resentment and confusion, his quivering fingers griped towards the handle of his sword, and perhaps only withdrew, from the consciousness that no act of violence could be safely executed in that place and presence.
As the matter is, disturb not the peaceful hall with vaunts of the issue of the conflict, which you well know cannot take place.
I affirm he will meet fairly every honourable challenge.
Report speaks you a bonny monk, that would hear the matin chime ere he quitted his bowl; and, old as I am, I feared to have shame in encountering you.
But, by my faith, a Saxon boy of twelve, in my time, would not so soon have relinquished his goblet." The Prior had his own reasons, however, for persevering in the course of temperance which he had adopted.
He was not only a professional peacemaker, but from practice a hater of all feuds and brawls.
It was not altogether from a love to his neighbour, or to himself, or from a mixture of both.
I am an impoverished wretch-the very gaberdine I wear is borrowed from Reuben of Tadcaster.
15 The Templar smiled sourly as he replied, "Beshrew thee for a false-hearted liar!" and passing onward, as if disdaining farther conference, he communed with his Moslem slaves in a language unknown to the bystanders.
That vow," said Wamba to the cupbearer, "would scarce suit a serving-man." The cupbearer shrugged up his shoulders in displeasure.
The walls were covered with embroidered hangings, on which different-coloured silks, interwoven with gold and silver threads, had been employed with all the art of which the age was capable, to represent the sports of hunting and hawking.
The bed was adorned with the same rich tapestry, and surrounded with curtains dyed with purple.
The seats had also their stained coverings, and one, which was higher than the rest, was accommodated with a footstool of ivory, curiously carved. No fewer than four silver candelabras, holding great waxen torches, served to illuminate this apartment.
Yet let not modern beauty envy the magnificence of a Saxon princess.
The Pilgrim acknowledged her claim to it by a low genuflection. "Rise, Palmer," said she graciously.
The defender of the absent has a right to favourable reception from all who value truth, and honour manhood.
I would I knew him better, since you, lady, are interested in his fate.
On the first point, the Palmer professed ignorance; on the second, he said that the voyage might be safely made by the way of Venice and Genoa, and from thence through France to England.
Should Athelstane of Coningsburgh obtain the prize, Ivanhoe is like to hear evil tidings when he reaches England.-How looked he, stranger, when you last saw him?
Such parts of his dress as the Jew had laid aside on the preceding evening, were disposed carefully around his person, as if to prevent the hazard of their being carried off during his slumbers.
There was a trouble on his brow amounting almost to agony.
I am poor, I am penniless-should your irons wrench my limbs asunder, I could not gratify you!" The Palmer awaited not the end of the Jew's vision, but stirred him with his pilgrim's staff.
O, blessed Aaron! the dream is not dreamed for nought, and the vision cometh not in vain!
I feel their irons already tear my sinews!
Leave this mansion instantly, while its inmates sleep sound after the last night's revel.
I have not means to secure the good-will of a Christian beggar, were he rating it at a single penny.
As he spoke these last words, he raised himself, and grasped the Palmer's mantle with a look of the most earnest entreaty.
Gurth started up as if electrified.
The Pilgrim, raising his finger in an attitude as if to express caution, added, "Gurth, beware-thou are wont to be prudent.
I say, undo the postern-thou shalt know more anon." With hasty alacrity Gurth obeyed him, while Wamba and the Jew followed, both wondering at the sudden change in the swineherd's demeanour.
The travellers crossed the ditch upon a drawbridge of only two planks breadth, the narrowness of which was matched with the straitness of the postern, and with a little wicket in the exterior palisade, which gave access to the forest.
The kings of the Norman race, and the independent nobles, who followed their example in all acts of tyranny, maintained against this devoted people a persecution of a more regular, calculated, and self-interested kind.
Besides, what succour couldst thou have from me, a peaceful Pilgrim, against two armed heathens?" "O good youth," answered the Jew, "thou canst defend me, and I know thou wouldst.
Poor as I am, I will requite it-not with money, for money, so help me my Father Abraham, I have none-but--" "Money and recompense," said the Palmer, interrupting him, "I have already said I require not of thee.
Guide thee I can; and, it may be, even in some sort defend thee; since to protect a Jew against a Saracen, can scarce be accounted unworthy of a Christian.
Therefore, Jew, I will see thee safe under some fitting escort.
Hard hands have wrung from me my goods, my money, my ships, and all that I possessed-Yet I can tell thee what thou lackest, and, it may be, supply it too.
But there dropt words from you last night and this morning, that, like sparks from flint, showed the metal within; and in the bosom of that Palmer's gown, is hidden a knight's chain and spurs of gold.
They glanced as you stooped over my bed in the morning." The Pilgrim could not forbear smiling.
Now I may be unfortunate, and so lose what I cannot replace or repay." The Jew looked somewhat astounded at this possibility; but collecting his courage, he replied hastily.
No-no-no-It is impossible-I will not think so.
The blessing of Our Father will be upon thee.
Thy lance will be powerful as the rod of Moses." So saying, he was turning his mule's head away, when the Palmer, in his turn, took hold of his gaberdine.
Nay, but Isaac, thou knowest not all the risk.
The steed may be slain, the armour injured-for I will spare neither horse nor man.
I care not," he said, "I care not-let me go.
If there is damage, it will cost you nothing-if there is usage money, Kirjath Jairam will forgive it for the sake of his kinsman Isaac.
King Richard was absent a prisoner, and in the power of the perfidious and cruel Duke of Austria.
This usurpation, it is well known, he afterwards effected.
The nobles themselves, each fortified within his own castle, and playing the petty sovereign over his own dominions, were the leaders of bands scarce less lawless and oppressive than those of the avowed depredators.
Neither duty nor infirmity could keep youth or age from such exhibitions.
The form of the enclosure was an oblong square, save that the corners were considerably rounded off, in order to afford more convenience for the spectators.
The openings for the entry of the combatants were at the northern and southern extremities of the lists, accessible by strong wooden gates, each wide enough to admit two horsemen riding abreast.
The cords of the tents were of the same colour.
Ralph de Vipont, a knight of St John of Jerusalem, who had some ancient possessions at a place called Heather, near Ashby-de-la-Zouche, occupied the fifth pavilion.
From the entrance into the lists, a gently sloping passage, ten yards in breadth, led up to the platform on which the tents were pitched.
A narrow space, betwixt these galleries and the lists, gave accommodation for yeomanry and spectators of a better degree than the mere vulgar, and might be compared to the pit of a theatre.
The promiscuous multitude arranged themselves upon large banks of turf prepared for the purpose, which, aided by the natural elevation of the ground, enabled them to overlook the galleries, and obtain a fair view into the lists.
Squires, pages, and yeomen in rich liveries, waited around this place of honour, which was designed for Prince John and his attendants.
Opposite to this royal gallery was another, elevated to the same height, on the western side of the lists; and more gaily, if less sumptuously decorated, than that destined for the Prince himself.
A train of pages and of young maidens, the most beautiful who could be selected, gaily dressed in fancy habits of green and pink, surrounded a throne decorated in the same colours.
Some of these were settled by the men-at-arms with brief ceremony; the shafts of their battle-axes, and pummels of their swords, being readily employed as arguments to convince the more refractory.
The lower and interior space was soon filled by substantial yeomen and burghers, and such of the lesser gentry, as, from modesty, poverty, or dubious title, durst not assume any higher place.
It was not in places of general resort, or where their equals were assembled, that any avaricious or malevolent noble durst offer him injury.
The complaints of the old man, however, excited the indignation of the bystanders.
Such an expression is often mistaken for manly frankness, when in truth it arises from the reckless indifference of a libertine disposition, conscious of superiority of birth, of wealth, or of some other adventitious advantage, totally unconnected with personal merit.
Her form was exquisitely symmetrical, and was shown to advantage by a sort of Eastern dress, which she wore according to the fashion of the females of her nation.
Her turban of yellow silk suited well with the darkness of her complexion.
It is true, that of the golden and pearl-studded clasps, which closed her vest from the throat to the waist, the three uppermost were left unfastened on account of the heat, which somewhat enlarged the prospect to which we allude.
A diamond necklace, with pendants of inestimable value, were by this means also made more conspicuous.
By the body of St Mark, my prince of supplies, with his lovely Jewess, shall have a place in the gallery!-What is she, Isaac?
But, daughter or wife, she should be preferred according to her beauty and thy merits.-Who sits above there?" he continued, bending his eye on the gallery.
Saxon churls, lolling at their lazy length!-out upon them!-let them sit close, and make room for my prince of usurers and his lovely daughter.
But with the blood of this ancient royal race, many of their infirmities had descended to Athelstane.
Besides, I swear by my patron saint, that she is far inferior to the lovely Saxon, Rowena." "Saxon or Jew," answered the Prince, "Saxon or Jew, dog or hog, what matters it?
I did but jest," he said; "and you turn upon me like so many adders!
On this second day the knightly games ceased.
But on that which was to follow, feats of archery, of bull-baiting, and other popular amusements, were to be practised, for the more immediate amusement of the populace.
The bounty of the spectators was acknowledged by the customary shouts of "Love of Ladies-Death of Champions-Honour to the Generous-Glory to the Brave!
To which the more humble spectators added their acclamations, and a numerous band of trumpeters the flourish of their martial instruments.
All were splendidly armed, and my Saxon authority (in the Wardour Manuscript) records at great length their devices, their colours, and the embroidery of their horse trappings.
It is unnecessary to be particular on these subjects.
To borrow lines from a contemporary poet, who has written but too little: "The knights are dust, And their good swords are rust, Their souls are with the saints, we trust.
As the procession entered the lists, the sound of a wild Barbaric music was heard from behind the tents of the challengers, where the performers were concealed.
It was of Eastern origin, having been brought from the Holy Land; and the mixture of the cymbals and bells seemed to bid welcome at once, and defiance, to the knights as they advanced.
The lower orders of spectators in general-nay, many of the higher class, and it is even said several of the ladies, were rather disappointed at the champions choosing the arms of courtesy.
His own education had taught him no skill in the games of chivalry, although, with the arms of his Saxon ancestors, he had manifested himself, on many occasions, a brave and determined soldier.
He looked anxiously to Athelstane, who had learned the accomplishments of the age, as if desiring that he should make some personal effort to recover the victory which was passing into the hands of the Templar and his associates.
All eyes were turned to see the new champion which these sounds announced, and no sooner were the barriers opened than he paced into the lists.
As far as could be judged of a man sheathed in armour, the new adventurer did not greatly exceed the middle size, and seemed to be rather slender than strongly made.
His suit of armour was formed of steel, richly inlaid with gold, and the device on his shield was a young oak-tree pulled up by the roots, with the Spanish word Desdichado, signifying Disinherited.
He was mounted on a gallant black horse, and as he passed through the lists he gracefully saluted the Prince and the ladies by lowering his lance.
He changed his horse for a proved and fresh one of great strength and spirit.
He chose a new and a tough spear, lest the wood of the former might have been strained in the previous encounters he had sustained.
Lastly, he laid aside his shield, which had received some little damage, and received another from his squires.
The lances burst into shivers up to the very grasp, and it seemed at the moment that both knights had fallen, for the shock had made each horse recoil backwards upon its haunches.
Fair and true he hit the Norman on the visor, where his lance's point kept hold of the bars.
Yet, even at this disadvantage, the Templar sustained his high reputation; and had not the girths of his saddle burst, he might not have been unhorsed.
The Disinherited Knight sprung from his steed, and also unsheathed his sword.
On foot or horseback, with spear, with axe, or with sword, I am alike ready to encounter thee." More and angrier words would have been exchanged, but the marshals, crossing their lances betwixt them, compelled them to separate.
He bore on a white shield a black bull's head, half defaced by the numerous encounters which he had undergone, and bearing the arrogant motto, "Cave, Adsum".
Over this champion the Disinherited Knight obtained a slight but decisive advantage.
The Disinherited Knight, with all knightly courtesy, declined their request, alleging, that he could not at this time suffer his face to be seen, for reasons which he had assigned to the heralds when he entered the lists.
By my faith, I shall never forget the force with which he shocked De Vipont.
The poor Hospitaller was hurled from his saddle like a stone from a sling." "Boast not of that," said a Knight of St John, who was present; "your Temple champion had no better luck.
I saw your brave lance, Bois-Guilbert, roll thrice over, grasping his hands full of sand at every turn." De Bracy, being attached to the Templars, would have replied, but was prevented by Prince John.
A whisper arose among the train, but by whom first suggested could not be ascertained.
He had also a wish to establish himself in the good graces of the lady; for John was at least as licentious in his pleasures as profligate in his ambition.
The trumpets instantly sounded, while the heralds proclaimed the Lady Rowena the Queen of Beauty and of Love for the ensuing day, menacing with suitable penalties those who should be disobedient to her authority.
But these sounds of disaffection were drowned by the popular shout of "Long live the Lady Rowena, the chosen and lawful Queen of Love and of Beauty!
I also, and the noble Athelstane of Coningsburgh, speak only the language, and practise only the manners, of our fathers.
We therefore decline with thanks your Highness's courteous invitation to the banquet.
The purport of Cedric's speech was repeated to him in French.
But their officious inquisitiveness was not gratified.
The Disinherited Knight then addressed his discourse to Baldwin, the squire of Brian de Bois-Guilbert.
From your master," said he, "I will accept neither arms nor ransom.
Say to him in my name, that our strife is not ended-no, not till we have fought as well with swords as with lances-as well on foot as on horseback.
Leave not, however, the horse and armour here.
Restore them to thy master; or, if he scorns to accept them, retain them, good friend, for thine own use.
Yet I could scarce choose but laugh, when my old master passed so near to me, dreaming all the while that Gurth was keeping his porkers many a mile off, in the thickets and swamps of Rotherwood.
If I am discovered--" "Enough," said the Disinherited Knight, "thou knowest my promise." "Nay, for that matter," said Gurth, "I will never fail my friend for fear of my skin-cutting.
I have a tough hide, that will bear knife or scourge as well as any boar's hide in my herd." "Trust me, I will requite the risk you run for my love, Gurth," said the Knight.
These Gentiles, cruel and oppressive as they are, are in some sort dependent on the dispersed children of Zion, whom they despise and persecute.
Even this day's pageant had not proceeded without the consent of the despised Jew, who furnished the means." "Daughter," said Isaac, "thou hast harped upon another string of sorrow.
At the same time the servant informed Isaac, that a Nazarene (so they termed Christians, while conversing among themselves) desired to speak with him.
He that would live by traffic, must hold himself at the disposal of every one claiming business with him.
And from whom dost thou bring it?" "From the Disinherited Knight," said Gurth, "victor in this day's tournament.
It is the price of the armour supplied to him by Kirjath Jairam of Leicester, on thy recommendation.
The steed is restored to thy stable.
No Christians here could buy so many horses and armour-no Jew except myself would give him half the values.
Nevertheless, if such be your least offer, I must be content." "Fill thyself another goblet of wine," said the Jew.
Ah! eighty zecchins is too little.
It leaveth no profit for the usages of the moneys; and, besides, the good horse may have suffered wrong in this day's encounter.
O, it was a hard and a dangerous meeting! man and steed rushing on each other like wild bulls of Bashan!
The horse cannot but have had wrong." "And I say," replied Gurth, "he is sound, wind and limb; and you may see him now, in your stable.
And I say, over and above, that seventy zecchins is enough for the armour, and I hope a Christian's word is as good as a Jew's.
The Jew's hand trembled for joy as he wrapped up the first seventy pieces of gold.
The last ten he told over with much deliberation, pausing, and saying something as he took each piece from the table, and dropt it into his purse.
He weighed it upon the tip of his finger, and made it ring by dropping it upon the table.
Had it rung too flat, or had it felt a hair's breadth too light, generosity had carried the day; but, unhappily for Gurth, the chime was full and true, the zecchin plump, newly coined, and a grain above weight.
He then folded the quittance, and put it under his cap, adding,-"Peril of thy beard, Jew, see that this be full and ample!
Gurth had some reluctance to obey the summons.
He remembered, moreover, that he was in the house of a Jew, a people who, besides the other unamiable qualities which popular report ascribed to them, were supposed to be profound necromancers and cabalists.
What sum didst thou pay my father even now?" "Eighty zecchins," said Gurth, surprised at the question. "In this purse," said Rebecca, "thou wilt find a hundred.
Restore to thy master that which is his due, and enrich thyself with the remainder.
Ten zecchins from my brave young master-twenty from this pearl of Zion-Oh, happy day!-Such another, Gurth, will redeem thy bondage, and make thee a brother as free of thy guild as the best.
All these sounds, intimating the disorderly state of the town, crowded with military nobles and their dissolute attendants, gave Gurth some uneasiness.
The Jewess was right," he said to himself.
By heaven and St Dunstan, I would I were safe at my journey's end with all this treasure!
Here his captors were joined by two other persons, apparently belonging to the gang.
Meantime render up thy trust for a time.
The others crowded around him, and even two who had hold of Gurth relaxed their grasp while they stretched their necks to see the issue of the search.
Availing himself of their negligence, by a sudden exertion of strength and activity, Gurth shook himself free of their hold, and might have escaped, could he have resolved to leave his master's property behind him.
But such was no part of his intention.
He wrenched a quarter-staff from one of the fellows, struck down the Captain, who was altogether unaware of his purpose, and had well-nigh repossessed himself of the pouch and treasure.
But thou shalt know thy fate instantly.
First let us speak of thy master; the knight's matters must go before the squire's, according to the due order of chivalry.
The errant knight, his master, must needs pass us toll-free.
Is he not the enemy to life and death of Brian de Bois-Guilbert, whom we have so much reason to fear?
Less obstinate, and even less dangerous combats, have been described in good heroic verse; but that of Gurth and the Miller must remain unsung, for want of a sacred poet to do justice to its eventful progress.
Two of the outlaws, taking up their quarter-staves, and desiring Gurth to follow close in the rear, walked roundly forward along a by-path, which traversed the thicket and the broken ground adjacent to it.
On the very verge of the thicket two men spoke to his conductors, and receiving an answer in a whisper, withdrew into the wood, and suffered them to pass unmolested.
This Saxon lord had arrayed his tall and strong person in armour, in order to take his place among the combatants; and, considerably to the surprise of Cedric, had chosen to enlist himself on the part of the Knight Templar.
It had therefore been with smothered displeasure that the proud though indolent Lord of Coningsburgh beheld the victor of the preceding day select Rowena as the object of that honour which it became his privilege to confer.
A knight, it was announced, might use a mace or battle-axe at pleasure, but the dagger was a prohibited weapon.
A knight unhorsed might renew the fight on foot with any other on the opposite side in the same predicament; but mounted horsemen were in that case forbidden to assail him.
A knight thus overcome was not permitted to take farther share in the combat.
Thus they remained while the marshals of the field surveyed their ranks with the utmost exactness, lest either party had more or fewer than the appointed number.
The tale was found exactly complete.
The marshals then withdrew from the lists, and William de Wyvil, with a voice of thunder, pronounced the signal words-"Laissez aller!
The followers of Brian de Bois-Guilbert shouted-"Ha! Beau-seant!
20 "-For the Temple-For the Temple!
The opposite party shouted in answer-"Desdichado!
Meantime the clang of the blows, and the shouts of the combatants, mixed fearfully with the sound of the trumpets, and drowned the groans of those who fell, and lay rolling defenceless beneath the feet of the horses.
The splendid armour of the combatants was now defaced with dust and blood, and gave way at every stroke of the sword and battle-axe.
The gay plumage, shorn from the crests, drifted upon the breeze like snow-flakes.
Here and there, indeed, a fair cheek might turn pale, or a faint scream might be heard, as a lover, a brother, or a husband, was struck from his horse.
Both displayed great feats of gallantry, nor did either Bois-Guilbert or the Disinherited Knight find in the ranks opposed to them a champion who could be termed their unquestioned match.
These knights, therefore, their aim being thus eluded, rushed from opposite sides betwixt the object of their attack and the Templar, almost running their horses against each other ere they could stop their career.
This was no longer matter of so much difficulty as formerly.
The Templars horse had bled much, and gave way under the shock of the Disinherited Knight's charge.
Brian de Bois-Guilbert rolled on the field, encumbered with the stirrup, from which he was unable to draw his foot.
Several more were disabled for life; and those who escaped best carried the marks of the conflict to the grave with them.
After he had been summoned twice by sound of trumpet, and proclamation of the heralds, it became necessary to name another to receive the honours which had been assigned to him.
When the helmet was removed, the well-formed, yet sun-burnt features of a young man of twenty-five were seen, amidst a profusion of short fair hair.
Cedric, who had been struck mute by the sudden appearance of his banished son, now rushed forward, as if to separate him from Rowena.
It was not long ere it reached the circle of the Prince, whose brow darkened as he heard the news.
Looking around him, however, with an air of scorn, "My Lords," said he, "and especially you, Sir Prior, what think ye of the doctrine the learned tell us, concerning innate attractions and antipathies?
Prior Aymer also assented to the general proposition, observing, however, "That the blessed Jerusalem could not indeed be termed a foreign country.
She was 'communis mater'-the mother of all Christians.
She seems a minor, and must therefore be at our royal disposal in marriage.-How sayst thou, De Bracy?
Recovering from the first effects of his surprise, he took Waldemar Fitzurse and De Bracy aside, and put the billet into their hands successively.
A few days later, and it will be indeed too late.
Our banquet also shall go forward to-night as we proposed.
Of twenty-four arrows, shot in succession, ten were fixed in the target, and the others ranged so near it, that, considering the distance of the mark, it was accounted good archery.
At length he made a step forward, and raising the bow at the full stretch of his left arm, till the centre or grasping-place was nigh level with his face, he drew his bowstring to his ear.
An your highness were to hang me," he said, "a man can but do his best.
He began to peel this with great composure, observing at the same time, that to ask a good woodsman to shoot at a target so broad as had hitherto been used, was to put shame upon his skill.
For his own part," he said, "and in the land where he was bred, men would as soon take for their mark King Arthur's round-table, which held sixty knights around it.
He then took his aim with some deliberation, and the multitude awaited the event in breathless silence.
The archer vindicated their opinion of his skill: his arrow split the willow rod against which it was aimed.
A jubilee of acclamations followed; and even Prince John, in admiration of Locksley's skill, lost for an instant his dislike to his person.
He called upon his chamberlain as he gave the signal for retiring from the lists, and commanded him instantly to gallop to Ashby, and seek out Isaac the Jew.
Tell the dog," he said, "to send me, before sun-down, two thousand crowns.
He knows the security; but thou mayst show him this ring for a token.
The rest of the money must be paid at York within six days.
If he neglects, I will have the unbelieving villain's head.
The castle and town of Ashby, at this time, belonged to Roger de Quincy, Earl of Winchester, who, during the period of our history, was absent in the Holy Land.
Upon this occasion the Irish chieftains contended which should first offer to the young Prince their loyal homage and the kiss of peace.
The Emperor Charlemagne, in whose reign they were first introduced, seems to have been very sensible of the inconveniences arising from the fashion of this garment.
In Heaven's name," said he, "to what purpose serve these abridged cloaks?
Besides these dishes of domestic origin, there were various delicacies brought from foreign parts, and a quantity of rich pastry, as well as of the simnel-bread and wastle cakes, which were only used at the tables of the highest nobility.
The banquet was crowned with the richest wines, both foreign and domestic. But, though luxurious, the Norman nobles were not generally speaking an intemperate race.
While indulging themselves in the pleasures of the table, they aimed at delicacy, but avoided excess, and were apt to attribute gluttony and drunkenness to the vanquished Saxons, as vices peculiar to their inferior station.
And while their manners were thus the subject of sarcastic observation, the untaught Saxons unwittingly transgressed several of the arbitrary rules established for the regulation of society.
Now, it is well known, that a man may with more impunity be guilty of an actual breach either of real good breeding or of good morals, than appear ignorant of the most minute point of fashionable etiquette.
The topics were treated with military frankness, and the jest and laugh went round the hall.
He left my homely dwelling to mingle with the gay nobility of your brother's court, where he learned to do those tricks of horsemanship which you prize so highly.
This, perchance, is a hard task, since it calls on the slave to sing the praises of the master-upon the vanquished, while pressed by all the evils of conquest, to sing the praises of the conqueror.
Yet I will name a Norman-the first in arms and in place-the best and the noblest of his race.
He raised mechanically the wine-cup to his lips, then instantly set it down, to view the demeanour of the company at this unexpected proposal, which many of them felt it as unsafe to oppose as to comply with.
Some of them, ancient and experienced courtiers, closely imitated the example of the Prince himself, raising the goblet to their lips, and again replacing it before them.
There were many who, with a more generous feeling, exclaimed, "Long live King Richard! and may he be speedily restored to us!
And some few, among whom were Front-de-Boeuf and the Templar, in sullen disdain suffered their goblets to stand untasted before them.
But this is no time for recrimination.
His brother's very name is an ague to him.
Few of these were attached to him from inclination, and none from personal regard.
It was therefore necessary, that Fitzurse should open to them new prospects of advantage, and remind them of those which they at present enjoyed.
To the young and wild nobles, he held out the prospect of unpunished license and uncontrolled revelry; to the ambitious, that of power, and to the covetous, that of increased wealth and extended domains.
The leaders of the mercenaries received a donation in gold; an argument the most persuasive to their minds, and without which all others would have proved in vain.
Promises were still more liberally distributed than money by this active agent; and, in fine, nothing was left undone that could determine the wavering, or animate the disheartened.
He returns to call to a fearful reckoning, those who, during his absence, have done aught that can be construed offence or encroachment upon either the laws of the land or the privileges of the crown.
He returns to avenge upon the Orders of the Temple and the Hospital, the preference which they showed to Philip of France during the wars in the Holy Land.
He returns, in fine, to punish as a rebel every adherent of his brother Prince John.
Are ye afraid of his power?" continued the artful confident of that Prince, "we acknowledge him a strong and valiant knight; but these are not the days of King Arthur, when a champion could encounter an army.
If Richard indeed comes back, it must be alone,-unfollowed-unfriended.
The bones of his gallant army have whitened the sands of Palestine.
The few of his followers who have returned have straggled hither like this Wilfred of Ivanhoe, beggared and broken men.-And what talk ye of Richard's right of birth?" he proceeded, in answer to those who objected scruples on that head.
Is Richard's title of primogeniture more decidedly certain than that of Duke Robert of Normandy, the Conqueror's eldest son?
It is our right," he said, "to choose from the blood royal the prince who is best qualified to hold the supreme power-that is," said he, correcting himself, "him whose election will best promote the interests of the nobility.
Come, Fitzurse, we know each other-ambition is thy pursuit, pleasure is mine, and they become our different ages.
Yet I mean no immediate discovery of myself.
Seem I not in this garb as bold a forester as ever blew horn?
The blame of the violence shall rest with the outlaws of the Yorkshire forests.
I have sure spies on the Saxon's motions-To-night they sleep in the convent of Saint Wittol, or Withold, or whatever they call that churl of a Saxon Saint at Burton-on-Trent.
Next day's march brings them within our reach, and, falcon-ways, we swoop on them at once.
This knight had left the field abruptly when the victory was achieved; and when he was called upon to receive the reward of his valour, he was nowhere to be found.
Yet his purpose was baffled by the devious paths through which he rode, so that when evening closed upon him, he only found himself on the frontiers of the West Riding of Yorkshire.
The stem of a young fir-tree lopped of its branches, with a piece of wood tied across near the top, was planted upright by the door, as a rude emblem of the holy cross.
At a little distance on the right hand, a fountain of the purest water trickled out of the rock, and was received in a hollow stone, which labour had formed into a rustic basin.
The ribs of two of these arches remained, though the roof had fallen down betwixt them; over the others it remained entire.
The entrance to this ancient place of devotion was under a very low round arch, ornamented by several courses of that zig-zag moulding, resembling shark's teeth, which appears so often in the more ancient Saxon architecture.
I pray you, reverend father as you are a Christian, to undo your door, and at least point out to me my road." "And I pray you, good Christian brother," replied the anchorite, "to disturb me no more.
The path from the wood leads to a morass, and from thence to a ford, which, as the rains have abated, may now be passable.
I tell thee, that thou, who livest by the charity of the country-ill deserved, as I doubt it is-hast no right to refuse shelter to the wayfarer when in distress.
He had in one hand a lighted torch, or link, and in the other a baton of crab-tree, so thick and heavy, that it might well be termed a club.
Two large shaggy dogs, half greyhound half mastiff, stood ready to rush upon the traveller as soon as the door should be opened.
The knight returned him thanks for his courtesy; and, this duty done, both resumed their seats by the table, whereon stood the trencher of pease placed between them.
His close-shaven crown, surrounded by a circle of stiff curled black hair, had something the appearance of a parish pinfold begirt by its high hedge.
Such a visage, joined to the brawny form of the holy man, spoke rather of sirloins and haunches, than of pease and pulse.
This incongruity did not escape the guest.
There was, however, as much of bold frankness in the knight's countenance as was possible to be expressed by features.
Out of the recesses of a dark closet, into which this aperture gave admittance, he brought a large pasty, baked in a pewter platter of unusual dimensions.
He also brought forth two large drinking cups, made out of the horn of the urus, and hooped with silver.
In my judgment, you are fitter to keep a castle or a fort, eating of the fat and drinking of the strong, than to live here upon pulse and water, or even upon the charity of the keeper.
Credit me, it is better to enjoy the good which God sends thee, than to be impertinently curious how it comes.
The knight, who watched his motions, observed that this second place of concealment was furnished with two or three good long-bows, a cross-bow, a bundle of bolts for the latter, and half-a-dozen sheaves of arrows for the former.
A harp, and other matters of a very uncanonical appearance, were also visible when this dark recess was opened. "I promise thee, brother Clerk," said he, "I will ask thee no more offensive questions.
I do promise thee I suspect thee grievously.
Nevertheless, thou art my guest, and I will not put thy manhood to the proof without thine own free will.
Sit thee down, then, and fill thy cup; let us drink, sing, and be merry.
But come, fill a flagon, for it will crave some time to tune the harp; and nought pitches the voice and sharpens the ear like a cup of wine.
For my part, I love to feel the grape at my very finger-ends before they make the harp-strings tinkle.
23 "A ballad, a ballad," said the hermit, "against all the 'ocs' and 'ouis' of France.
Art had taught him to soften the faults of a voice which had little compass, and was naturally rough rather than mellow, and, in short, had done all that culture can do in supplying natural deficiencies.
He reclined back upon his seat, with his eyes half shut; now, folding his hands and twisting his thumbs, he seemed absorbed in attention, and anon, balancing his expanded palms, he gently flourished them in time to the music.
At one or two favourite cadences, he threw in a little assistance of his own, where the knight's voice seemed unable to carry the air so high as his worshipful taste approved.
Every thing should be put to its proper use in this world.
I never feared man, and I as little fear the devil and his imps.
He could not bring himself to acknowledge, in presence of such an assembly, the son whom he had renounced and disinherited.
He ordered, however, Oswald to keep an eye upon him; and directed that officer, with two of his serfs, to convey Ivanhoe to Ashby as soon as the crowd had dispersed.
Oswald, however, was anticipated in this good office.
Anxious concerning his master's fate, and in despair at his sudden disappearance, the translated swineherd was searching for him everywhere, and had neglected, in doing so, the concealment on which his own safety depended.
I seek the noble Athelstane, and with him attend the banquet of John of Anjou." He went accordingly to the banquet, of which we have already mentioned the principal events.
Immediately upon retiring from the castle, the Saxon thanes, with their attendants, took horse; and it was during the bustle which attended their doing so, that Cedric, for the first time, cast his eyes upon the deserter Gurth.
It is unlucky to travel where your path is crossed by a monk, a hare, or a howling dog, until you have eaten your next meal." "Away!" said Cedric, impatiently; "the day is already too short for our journey.
The javelin inflicted a wound upon the animal's shoulder, and narrowly missed pinning him to the earth; and Fangs fled howling from the presence of the enraged thane.
Gurth's heart swelled within him; for he felt this meditated slaughter of his faithful adherent in a degree much deeper than the harsh treatment he had himself received.
At length he could repress his feelings no longer. "Friend Wamba," said he, "of all those who are fools enough to serve Cedric, thou alone hast dexterity enough to make thy folly acceptable to him.
Go to him, therefore, and tell him that neither for love nor fear will Gurth serve him longer.
He may strike the head from me-he may scourge me-he may load me with irons-but henceforth he shall never compel me either to love or to obey him.
Go to him, then, and tell him that Gurth the son of Beowulph renounces his service." "Assuredly," said Wamba, "fool as I am, I shall not do your fool's errand.
Cedric hath another javelin stuck into his girdle, and thou knowest he does not always miss his mark." "I care not," replied Gurth, "how soon he makes a mark of me.
Yesterday he left Wilfred, my young master, in his blood.
To-day he has striven to kill before my face the only other living creature that ever showed me kindness.
On this subject Cedric was all animation.
The restoration of the independence of his race was the idol of his heart, to which he had willingly sacrificed domestic happiness and the interests of his own son.
Above all, he was known to be liberal and hospitable, and believed to be good-natured.
Rowena, who possessed strong sense, neither considered his plan as practicable, nor as desirable, so far as she was concerned, could it have been achieved.
The sudden and romantic appearance of his son in the lists at Ashby, he had justly regarded as almost a death's blow to his hopes.
Athelstane, it is true, was vain enough, and loved to have his ears tickled with tales of his high descent, and of his right by inheritance to homage and sovereignty.
But his petty vanity was sufficiently gratified by receiving this homage at the hands of his immediate attendants, and of the Saxons who approached him.
It may be added, that in travelling thus late through the forest, Cedric and Athelstane relied on their descent and character, as well as their courage.
This party had undertaken to escort him as far as Doncaster.
We shall do better," said he, "to leave them two of our attendants and two horses to convey them back to the next village.
But Rebecca suddenly quitting her dejected posture, and making her way through the attendants to the palfrey of the Saxon lady, knelt down, and, after the Oriental fashion in addressing superiors, kissed the hem of Rowena's garment.
It is not for myself that I pray this favour," said Rebecca; "nor is it even for that poor old man.
But it is in the name of one dear to many, and dear even to you, that I beseech you to let this sick person be transported with care and tenderness under your protection.
Amid the bustle, Gurth was taken from horseback, in the course of which removal he prevailed upon the Jester to slack the cord with which his arms were bound.
Cedric, the instant that an enemy appeared, launched at him his remaining javelin, which, taking better effect than that which he had hurled at Fangs, nailed the man against an oak-tree that happened to be close behind him.
He was instantly made prisoner, and pulled from his horse by two or three of the banditti who crowded around him.
Finding himself overpowered, the Jester at length threw himself from his horse, plunged into the thicket, and, favoured by the general confusion, escaped from the scene of action.
And they are prisoners to green cassocks, and black visors.
And they lie all tumbled about on the green, like the crab-apples that you shake down to your swine.
And I would laugh at it," said the honest Jester, "if I could for weeping.
In my foolish mind, he had all the equipage of a thief too much in readiness, to be himself a true man." "Let him be the devil," said Gurth, "an he will.
We can be no worse of waiting his return.
There is, I think, no chance that they will proceed to any actual violence against their prisoners.
For three men to attempt them at this moment, were little else than madness; for they are good men of war, and have, as such, placed sentinels to give the alarm when any one approaches.
But I trust soon to gather such a force, as may act in defiance of all their precautions; you are both servants, and, as I think, faithful servants, of Cedric the Saxon, the friend of the rights of Englishmen.
He shall not want English hands to help him in this extremity.
Come then with me, until I gather more aid." So saying, he walked through the wood at a great pace, followed by the jester and the swineherd.
Disperse and seek your companions. Collect what force you can, for there's game afoot that must be hunted hard, and will turn to bay.
Meet me here by daybreak.-And stay," he added, "I have forgotten what is most necessary of the whole-Two of you take the road quickly towards Torquilstone, the Castle of Front-de-Boeuf.
Keep a close watch on them therefore; and dispatch one of your comrades, the lightest of foot, to bring the news of the yeomen thereabout." They promised implicit obedience, and departed with alacrity on their different errands.
By my beads," said the hermit, stopping short in a grand flourish, "here come more benighted guests.
I would not for my cowl that they found us in this goodly exercise.
Hear me, and I will tell thee of an enterprise, in which, if thou be'st really that which thou seemest, thou mayst take an honourable part.
Believe, however, that my word, when pledged, is as inviolate as if I wore golden spurs." "I willingly believe it," said the knight; "I have been accustomed to study men's countenances, and I can read in thine honesty and resolution.
But darkness came on fast, and the paths of the wood seemed but imperfectly known to the marauders.
They were compelled to make several long halts, and once or twice to return on their road to resume the direction which they wished to pursue.
The summer morn had dawned upon them ere they could travel in full assurance that they held the right path.
But confidence returned with light, and the cavalcade now moved rapidly forward.
Meanwhile, the following dialogue took place between the two leaders of the banditti. "It is time thou shouldst leave us, Sir Maurice," said the Templar to De Bracy, "in order to prepare the second part of thy mystery.
Thou art next, thou knowest, to act the Knight Deliverer." "I have thought better of it," said De Bracy; "I will not leave thee till the prize is fairly deposited in Front-de-Boeuf's castle.
There is in that train one who will make me a better mate." "What! wouldst thou stoop to the waiting damsel?" said De Bracy. "No, Sir Knight," said the Templar, haughtily.
To the waiting-woman will I not stoop.
And for my conscience, a man that has slain three hundred Saracens, need not reckon up every little failing, like a village girl at her first confession upon Good Friday eve." "Thou knowest best thine own privileges," said De Bracy.
Yet, I would have sworn thy thought had been more on the old usurer's money bags, than on the black eyes of the daughter." "I can admire both," answered the Templar; "besides, the old Jew is but half-prize.
I must share his spoils with Front-de-Boeuf, who will not lend us the use of his castle for nothing.
I must have something that I can term exclusively my own by this foray of ours, and I have fixed on the lovely Jewess as my peculiar prize.
But, now thou knowest my drift, thou wilt resume thine own original plan, wilt thou not?-Thou hast nothing, thou seest, to fear from my interference." "No," replied De Bracy, "I will remain beside my prize.
What thou sayst is passing true, but I like not the privileges acquired by the dispensation of the Grand Master, and the merit acquired by the slaughter of three hundred Saracens.
You should be my neighbours, and, if so, my friends; for which of my English neighbours have reason to be otherwise?
I tell ye, yeomen, that even those among ye who have been branded with outlawry have had from me protection; for I have pitied their miseries, and curst the oppression of their tyrannic nobles.
They continued to hurry him along, travelling at a very rapid rate, until, at the end of an avenue of huge trees, arose Torquilstone, now the hoary and ancient castle of Reginald Front-de-Boeuf.
It was a fortress of no great size, consisting of a donjon, or large and high square tower, surrounded by buildings of inferior height, which were encircled by an inner court-yard.
Around the exterior wall was a deep moat, supplied with water from a neighbouring rivulet.
Front-de-Boeuf, whose character placed him often at feud with his enemies, had made considerable additions to the strength of his castle, by building towers upon the outward wall, so as to flank it at every angle.
Tell me, dogs-is it my life or my wealth that your master aims at?
If the Saxon Cedric cannot rescue England, he is willing to die for her.
Tell your tyrannical master, I do only beseech him to dismiss the Lady Rowena in honour and safety.
De Bracy winded his horn three times, and the archers and cross-bow men, who had manned the wall upon seeing their approach, hastened to lower the drawbridge, and admit them.
The prisoners were compelled by their guards to alight, and were conducted to an apartment where a hasty repast was offered them, of which none but Athelstane felt any inclination to partake.
Neither had the descendant of the Confessor much time to do justice to the good cheer placed before them, for their guards gave him and Cedric to understand that they were to be imprisoned in a chamber apart from Rowena.
The same alarming distinction was conferred on Rebecca, in spite of her father's entreaties, who offered even money, in this extremity of distress, that she might be permitted to abide with him.
It was in this hall that Harold returned the magnanimous answer to the ambassador of his rebel brother. Oft have I heard my father kindle as he told the tale.
The foreigner came here poor, beggarly, cringing, and subservient, ready to doff his cap to the meanest native of the household.
Alas! that such an enterprise as the regeneration of England should turn on a hinge so imperfect!
Wedded to Rowena, indeed, her nobler and more generous soul may yet awake the better nature which is torpid within him.
Tell him that we yield to his rapacity, as in similar circumstances we should do to that of a literal robber.
Let him name the ransom at which he rates our liberty, and it shall be paid, providing the exaction is suited to our means.
Still, however, his speech was hailed by Cedric as an incontestible token of reviving spirit in his companion, whose previous indifference had begun, notwithstanding his respect for Athelstane's descent, to wear out his patience.
It was repeated three times, with as much violence as if it had been blown before an enchanted castle by the destined knight, at whose summons halls and towers, barbican and battlement, were to roll off like a morning vapour.
The Saxons started from the table, and hastened to the window.
But their curiosity was disappointed; for these outlets only looked upon the court of the castle, and the sound came from beyond its precincts.
The poor Jew had been hastily thrust into a dungeon-vault of the castle, the floor of which was deep beneath the level of the ground, and very damp, being lower than even the moat itself.
The only light was received through one or two loop-holes far above the reach of the captive's hand.
These apertures admitted, even at mid-day, only a dim and uncertain light, which was changed for utter darkness long before the rest of the castle had lost the blessing of day.
Neither was it the first time that Isaac had been placed in circumstances so dangerous.
He had therefore experience to guide him, as well as hope, that he might again, as formerly, be delivered as a prey from the fowler.
The Jew remained, without altering his position, for nearly three hours, at the expiry of which steps were heard on the dungeon stair.
This formidable baron was clad in a leathern doublet, fitted close to his body, which was frayed and soiled with the stains of his armour.
Each had in his hand a small pannier; and, when they entered the dungeon, they stopt at the door until Front-de-Boeuf himself carefully locked and double-locked it.
Having taken this precaution, he advanced slowly up the apartment towards the Jew, upon whom he kept his eye fixed, as if he wished to paralyze him with his glance, as some animals are said to fascinate their prey.
It seemed indeed as if the sullen and malignant eye of Front-de-Boeuf possessed some portion of that supposed power over his unfortunate prisoner.
He paused within three steps of the corner in which the unfortunate Jew had now, as it were, coiled himself up into the smallest possible space, and made a sign for one of the slaves to approach.
Think not I speak to thee only to excite thy terror, and practise on the base cowardice thou hast derived from thy tribe.
I swear to thee by that which thou dost NOT believe, by the gospel which our church teaches, and by the keys which are given her to bind and to loose, that my purpose is deep and peremptory.
This dungeon is no place for trifling.
Prisoners ten thousand times more distinguished than thou have died within these walls, and their fate hath never been known!
The Saracens produced from their baskets a quantity of charcoal, a pair of bellows, and a flask of oil.
Thy cunning may soon swell out once more thy shrivelled purse, but neither leech nor medicine can restore thy scorched hide and flesh wert thou once stretched on these bars.
Tell down thy ransom, I say, and rejoice that at such rate thou canst redeem thee from a dungeon, the secrets of which few have returned to tell.
Wert thou now in thy treasure-chamber at York, and were I craving a loan of thy shekels, it would be thine to dictate the time of payment, and the pledge of security.
But Front-de-Boeuf only laughed, and himself filled up the blank at which the Jew had hesitated. "At the expense of my conscience, thou wouldst say, Isaac; speak it out-I tell thee, I am reasonable.
I can bear the reproaches of a loser, even when that loser is a Jew.
Fitzdotterel drew his poniard upon me in mine own chamber, because I craved him for mine own silver.
My daughter is my flesh and blood, dearer to me a thousand times than those limbs which thy cruelty threatens.
No silver will I give thee, unless I were to pour it molten down thy avaricious throat-no, not a silver penny will I give thee, Nazarene, were it to save thee from the deep damnation thy whole life has merited!
But the wife of Front-de-Boeuf, for whom it had been originally furnished, was long dead, and decay and neglect had impaired the few ornaments with which her taste had adorned it.
The tapestry hung down from the walls in many places, and in others was tarnished and faded under the effects of the sun, or tattered and decayed by age.
His green cassock and vizard were now flung aside.
His long luxuriant hair was trained to flow in quaint tresses down his richly furred cloak.
His beard was closely shaved, his doublet reached to the middle of his leg, and the girdle which secured it, and at the same time supported his ponderous sword, was embroidered and embossed with gold work.
With this, he gently motioned the lady to a seat; and, as she still retained her standing posture, the knight ungloved his right hand, and motioned to conduct her thither.
Know then, that I have supported my pretensions to your hand in the way that best suited thy character.
I am not wont to be baffled in my enterprises, nor needs a Norman noble scrupulously to vindicate his conduct to the Saxon maiden whom he distinguishes by the offer of his hand.
Thou art proud, Rowena, and thou art the fitter to be my wife.
By what other means couldst thou be raised to high honour and to princely place, saving by my alliance?
But dream not, that Richard Coeur de Lion will ever resume his throne, far less that Wilfred of Ivanhoe, his minion, will ever lead thee to his footstool, to be there welcomed as the bride of a favourite.
Another suitor might feel jealousy while he touched this string; but my firm purpose cannot be changed by a passion so childish and so hopeless.
But it is thy love must buy his protection.
I am not romantic fool enough to further the fortune, or avert the fate, of one who is likely to be a successful obstacle between me and my wishes.
I believe not that thy purpose is so wicked, or thy power so great." "Flatter thyself, then, with that belief," said De Bracy, "until time shall prove it false.
Thy lover lies wounded in this castle-thy preferred lover.
He is a bar betwixt Front-de-Boeuf and that which Front-de-Boeuf loves better than either ambition or beauty.
What will it cost beyond the blow of a poniard, or the thrust of a javelin, to silence his opposition for ever?
Cedric also-" "And Cedric also," said Rowena, repeating his words; "my noble-my generous guardian!
Her disposition was naturally that which physiognomists consider as proper to fair complexions, mild, timid, and gentle; but it had been tempered, and, as it were, hardened, by the circumstances of her education.
It was impossible to see so beautiful a creature in such extremity without feeling for her, and De Bracy was not unmoved, though he was yet more embarrassed than touched.
He had, in truth, gone too far to recede; and yet, in Rowena's present condition, she could not be acted on either by argument or threats.
And yet," he said to himself, "I feel myself ill framed for the part which I am playing.
I cannot look on so fair a face while it is disturbed with agony, or on those eyes when they are drowned in tears.
They suffocated some in mud, and suspended others by the feet, or the head, or the thumbs, kindling fires below them.
They squeezed the heads of some with knotted cords till they pierced their brains, while they threw others into dungeons swarming with serpents, snakes, and toads.
But it would be cruel to put the reader to the pain of perusing the remainder of this description.
This excuse she stated before a great council of the clergy of England, as the sole reason for her having taken the religious habit.
Lords' hests must be listened to with a quick ear. Thou hast had thy day, old dame, but thy sun has long been set.
Is it my life they seek, to atone for my religion?
I will lay it down cheerfully." "Thy life, minion?" answered the sibyl; "what would taking thy life pleasure them?-Trust me, thy life is in no peril.
Such usage shalt thou have as was once thought good enough for a noble Saxon maiden.
And shall a Jewess, like thee, repine because she hath no better?
Look at me-I was as young and twice as fair as thou, when Front-de-Boeuf, father of this Reginald, and his Normans, stormed this castle.
My father and his seven sons defended their inheritance from story to story, from chamber to chamber-There was not a room, not a step of the stair, that was not slippery with their blood.
Fare thee well, Jewess!-Jew or Gentile, thy fate would be the same; for thou hast to do with them that have neither scruple nor pity.
Fare thee well, I say.
Yet had the Jewess this advantage, that she was better prepared by habits of thought, and by natural strength of mind, to encounter the dangers to which she was exposed.
Like Damocles at his celebrated banquet, Rebecca perpetually beheld, amid that gorgeous display, the sword which was suspended over the heads of her people by a single hair.
Her present situation required all her presence of mind, and she summoned it up accordingly. Her first care was to inspect the apartment; but it afforded few hopes either of escape or protection.
It contained neither secret passage nor trap-door, and unless where the door by which she had entered joined the main building, seemed to be circumscribed by the round exterior wall of the turret.
The door had no inside bolt or bar.
In the meanwhile, all around her showed that their present state was that of punishment and probation, and that it was their especial duty to suffer without sinning.
The ransom must be paid by love and beauty, and in no other coin will I accept it." "Thou art no outlaw," said Rebecca, in the same language in which he addressed her; "no outlaw had refused such offers.
No outlaw in this land uses the dialect in which thou hast spoken.
I am not an outlaw, then, fair rose of Sharon.
Despardieux!'-Not if she were the Queen of Sheba!
And know, besides, sweet daughter of Zion, that were the most Christian king to offer me his most Christian daughter, with Languedoc for a dowery, I could not wed her.
It is against my vow to love any maiden, otherwise than 'par amours', as I will love thee.
Marriage were an enduring crime on the part of a Templar; but what lesser folly I may practise, I shall speedily be absolved from at the next Preceptory of our Order.
Not the wisest of monarchs, not his father, whose examples you must needs allow are weighty, claimed wider privileges than we poor soldiers of the Temple of Zion have won by our zeal in its defence.
My strength thou mayst indeed overpower for God made women weak, and trusted their defence to man's generosity.
But I will proclaim thy villainy, Templar, from one end of Europe to the other.
Unprepared for such a desperate effort, for she had hitherto stood perfectly motionless, Bois-Guilbert had neither time to intercept nor to stop her.
The Templar hesitated, and a resolution which had never yielded to pity or distress, gave way to his admiration of her fortitude.
Come down," he said, "rash girl!-I swear by earth, and sea, and sky, I will offer thee no offence." "I will not trust thee, Templar," said Rebecca; "thou hast taught me better how to estimate the virtues of thine Order.
If not for thyself, yet for thy father's sake forbear!
I am not naturally that which you have seen me, hard, selfish, and relentless.
It was woman that taught me cruelty, and on woman therefore I have exercised it; but not upon such as thou.
Hear me, Rebecca-Never did knight take lance in his hand with a heart more devoted to the lady of his love than Brian de Bois-Guilbert.
And how was I requited?-When I returned with my dear-bought honours, purchased by toil and blood, I found her wedded to a Gascon squire, whose name was never heard beyond the limits of his own paltry domain!
Truly did I love her, and bitterly did I revenge me of her broken faith!
But my vengeance has recoiled on myself.
At the feet of my Superior I have laid down the right of self-action-the privilege of independence.
Mine thou must be!-Nay, start not," he added, "it must be with thine own consent, and on thine own terms.
Of this mighty Order I am no mean member, but already one of the Chief Commanders, and may well aspire one day to hold the batoon of Grand Master.
The poor soldiers of the Temple will not alone place their foot upon the necks of kings-a hemp-sandall'd monk can do that.
Our mailed step shall ascend their throne-our gauntlet shall wrench the sceptre from their gripe.
Not the reign of your vainly-expected Messiah offers such power to your dispersed tribes as my ambition may aim at.
I have sought but a kindred spirit to share it, and I have found such in thee." "Sayest thou this to one of my people?" answered Rebecca.
Bethink thee-" "Answer me not," said the Templar, "by urging the difference of our creeds; within our secret conclaves we hold these nursery tales in derision.
Our Order soon adopted bolder and wider views, and found out a better indemnification for our sacrifices.
But I will not further withdraw the veil of our mysteries.
That bugle-sound announces something which may require my presence.
Think on what I have said.-Farewell!-I do not say forgive me the violence I have threatened, for it was necessary to the display of thy character.
Gold can be only known by the application of the touchstone.
When she entered the turret-chamber, her first duty was to return thanks to the God of Jacob for the protection which he had afforded her, and to implore its continuance for her and for her father.
Another name glided into her petition-it was that of the wounded Christian, whom fate had placed in the hands of bloodthirsty men, his avowed enemies.
Her heart indeed checked her, as if, even in communing with the Deity in prayer, she mingled in her devotions the recollection of one with whose fate hers could have no alliance-a Nazarene, and an enemy to her faith.
Your love-suit," said De Bracy, "hath, I suppose, been disturbed, like mine, by this obstreperous summons.
A few drops sprinkled on the torch of love, make the flame blaze the brighter." "Gramercy for the few drops of thy sprinkling," replied De Bracy; "but this damsel hath wept enough to extinguish a beacon-light.
Never was such wringing of hands and such overflowing of eyes, since the days of St Niobe, of whom Prior Aymer told us.
That horn is sounded more and more clamorously." "He is negotiating with the Jew, I suppose," replied De Bracy, coolly; "probably the howls of Isaac have drowned the blast of the bugle.
Our chaplain attempted to teach me to write," he said, "but all my letters were formed like spear-heads and sword-blades, and so the old shaveling gave up the task." "Give it me," said the Templar.
Failing of which, we do pronounce to you, that we hold ye as robbers and traitors, and will wager our bodies against ye in battle, siege, or otherwise, and do our utmost to your annoyance and destruction.
Under this respectable emblem stood a cross, stated to be the mark of Gurth, the son of Beowulph.
Then was written, in rough bold characters, the words, "Le Noir Faineant".
De Bracy was the first to break silence by an uncontrollable fit of laughter, wherein he was joined, though with more moderation, by the Templar.
These fellows dared not have acted with such inconceivable impudence, had they not been supported by some strong bands.
There are enough of outlaws in this forest to resent my protecting the deer.
Let us summon our people, and sally forth upon them.
Sally, saidst thou? we have scarce men enough to defend the castle.
Here Wamba and Gurth, with their allies the Black Knight and Locksley, and the jovial hermit, awaited with impatience an answer to their summons.
Around, and at a distance from them, were seen many a bold yeoman, whose silvan dress and weatherbeaten countenances showed the ordinary nature of their occupation.
Few of these were armed otherwise than with such rustic weapons as necessity sometimes converts to military purposes.
Boar-spears, scythes, flails, and the like, were their chief arms; for the Normans, with the usual policy of conquerors, were jealous of permitting to the vanquished Saxons the possession or the use of swords and spears.
These circumstances rendered the assistance of the Saxons far from being so formidable to the besieged, as the strength of the men themselves, their superior numbers, and the animation inspired by a just cause, might otherwise well have made them.
Their numbers must be few, and it is five to one they may be accessible by a sudden and bold attack.
Time wears-away with thee." "And, in the meantime," said Locksley, "we will beset the place so closely, that not so much as a fly shall carry news from thence.
With no small wonder he received his master's commands to admit the holy man immediately; and, having previously manned the entrance to guard against surprise, he obeyed, without further scruple, the commands which he had received.
In the meantime, and that the shaveling may suspect nothing, permit him to go freely about his task of preparing these Saxon hogs for the slaughter-house." "It shall be so," said Front-de-Boeuf.
And he forthwith appointed a domestic to conduct Wamba to the apartment where Cedric and Athelstane were confined. The impatience of Cedric had been rather enhanced than diminished by his confinement.
Had you taken a fool's advice formerly, you would not have been here at all.
Wherefore, good my master, either take my proffer yourself, or suffer me to leave this dungeon as free as I entered." "Let the old tree wither," continued Cedric, "so the stately hope of the forest be preserved.
Save the noble Athelstane, my trusty Wamba! it is the duty of each who has Saxon blood in his veins.
I am like John-a-Duck's mare, that will let no man mount her but John-a-Duck.
I came to save my master, and if he will not consent-basta-I can but go away home again.
Kind service cannot be chucked from hand to hand like a shuttlecock or stool-ball.
I'll hang for no man but my own born master." "Go, then, noble Cedric," said Athelstane, "neglect not this opportunity.
Five hundred men are there without, and I was this morning one of the chief leaders.
My fool's cap was a casque, and my bauble a truncheon.
Well, we shall see what good they will make by exchanging a fool for a wise man.
Truly, I fear they will lose in valour what they may gain in discretion.
The tears stood in Cedric's eyes. "Thy memory shall be preserved," he said, "while fidelity and affection have honour upon earth!
How shall I bear myself like a reverend brother?" "The spell lies in two words," replied Wamba-"'Pax vobiscum' will answer all queries.
If you go or come, eat or drink, bless or ban, 'Pax vobiscum' carries you through it all.
It is as useful to a friar as a broomstick to a witch, or a wand to a conjurer.
Speak it but thus, in a deep grave tone,-'Pax vobiscum!'-it is irresistible-Watch and ward, knight and squire, foot and horse, it acts as a charm upon them all.
I trust I shall remember the pass-word.-Noble Athelstane, farewell; and farewell, my poor boy, whose heart might make amends for a weaker head-I will save you, or return and die with you.
I am fresh from my holy office, and would avoid pollution." "Come this way, father," said the old hag, "thou art a stranger in this castle, and canst not leave it without a guide.
Come hither, for I would speak with thee.-And you, daughter of an accursed race, go to the sick man's chamber, and tend him until my return; and woe betide you if you again quit it without my permission!" Rebecca retreated.
Her importunities had prevailed upon Urfried to suffer her to quit the turret, and Urfried had employed her services where she herself would most gladly have paid them, by the bedside of the wounded Ivanhoe.
But wine must give me strength to tell the horrors of my tale.
She poured out a cup, and drank it with a frightful avidity, which seemed desirous of draining the last drop in the goblet.
I am now a slave, miserable and degraded-the sport of my masters' passions while I had yet beauty-the object of their contempt, scorn, and hatred, since it has passed away.
The darkness of hell should hide what followed, but revenge must lift the veil, and darkly intimate what it would raise the dead to speak aloud.
Consider, unhappy woman, what could the sainted Edward himself do for thee, were he here in bodily presence?
What fate is prepared beyond the grave for her, to whom God has assigned on earth a lot of such unspeakable wretchedness?
Seek to prayer and penance, and mayest thou find acceptance!
Their force has long passed away-Age has no pleasures, wrinkles have no influence, revenge itself dies away in impotent curses.
It has hitherto shared this wasted bosom with other and with rival passions-henceforward it shall possess me wholly, and thou thyself shalt say, that, whatever was the life of Ulrica, her death well became the daughter of the noble Torquil.
By the scallop-shell of Compostella, I will make a martyr of him, if he loiters here to hatch treason among my domestics!" "What a true prophet," said Ulrica, "is an evil conscience!
That St Withold's of Burton is an owlet's nest worth the harrying.
I say to thee, priest, contrive some cast of thine art to keep the knaves where they are, until our friends bring up their lances.
I think he dares not betray me-at the worst I can but treat with these Saxon dogs whom I have safe in kennel.-Ho!
Giles jailor, let them bring Cedric of Rotherwood before me, and the other churl, his companion-him I mean of Coningsburgh-Athelstane there, or what call they him?
Give him to me to make sport for my Free Companions.-How sayst thou, knave?
Seest thou not we are overreached, and that our proposed mode of communicating with our friends without has been disconcerted by this same motley gentleman thou art so fond to brother?
What views have we to expect but instant storm?" "To the battlements then," said De Bracy; "when didst thou ever see me the graver for the thoughts of battle?
It is a trifling ransom, Saxon, and thou wilt owe gratitude to the moderation which accepts of it in exchange of your persons.
I will be drawn by wild horses before I consent to part with her.
Your squire Jocelyn knows him well, and will vouch him to be brother Ambrose, a monk in attendance upon the Prior of Jorvaulx." "Admit him," said Front-de-Boeuf; "most likely he brings us news from his jovial master.
Surely the devil keeps holiday, and the priests are relieved from duty, that they are strolling thus wildly through the country.
Moreover, I hold him that deems himself the best of you, bound to answer to me with his body for this aggression on my freedom.
But, God help me, I am old, and these foul onslaughts distract an aged man's brain.
Yet, do not confine your exertions to any one spot, noble friends!-we must this day be everywhere, and multiply ourselves, were it possible, so as to carry by our presence succour and relief wherever the attack is hottest.
See ye how dexterously they avail themselves of every cover which a tree or bush affords, and shun exposing themselves to the shot of our cross-bows?
Some hilding fellow he must be, who dared not stay to assert his claim to the tourney prize which chance had assigned him.
Neither did the Rabbins disown such acquaintance with supernatural arts, which added nothing (for what could add aught?) to the hatred with which their nation was regarded, while it diminished the contempt with which that malevolence was mingled.
A Jewish magician might be the subject of equal abhorrence with a Jewish usurer, but he could not be equally despised.
Isaac looked a little blank at this annunciation.
To this, however, Rebecca opposed many reasons, of which we shall only mention two that had peculiar weight with Isaac.
Wherefore I will lend ear to thy counsel, and this youth shall journey with us unto York, and our house shall be as a home to him until his wounds shall be healed.
And if he doth not return, this Wilfred may natheless repay us our charges when he shall gain treasure by the strength of his spear and of his sword, even as he did yesterday and this day also.
He awoke from a broken slumber, under the confused impressions which are naturally attendant on the recovery from a state of insensibility.
He was unable for some time to recall exactly to memory the circumstances which had preceded his fall in the lists, or to make out any connected chain of the events in which he had been engaged upon the yesterday.
She performed her task with a graceful and dignified simplicity and modesty, which might, even in more civilized days, have served to redeem it from whatever might seem repugnant to female delicacy.
It is well you should speedily know that your handmaiden is a poor Jewess, the daughter of that Isaac of York, to whom you were so lately a good and kind lord.
But Ivanhoe was too good a Catholic to retain the same class of feelings towards a Jewess.
She informed him of the necessity they were under of removing to York, and of her father's resolution to transport him thither, and tend him in his own house until his health should be restored.
And now, my kind leech, let me enquire of the news abroad.
The drought which Reuben administered was of a sedative and narcotic quality, and secured the patient sound and undisturbed slumbers.
In one circumstance only even the entreaties of Rebecca were unable to secure sufficient attention to the accommodation of the wounded knight.
Isaac, like the enriched traveller of Juvenal's tenth satire, had ever the fear of robbery before his eyes, conscious that he would be alike accounted fair game by the marauding Norman noble, and by the Saxon outlaw.
The rapidity with which he insisted on travelling, bred several disputes between him and the party whom he had hired to attend him as a guard.
These men were Saxons, and not free by any means from the national love of ease and good living which the Normans stigmatized as laziness and gluttony.
Reversing Shylock's position, they had accepted the employment in hopes of feeding upon the wealthy Jew, and were very much displeased when they found themselves disappointed, by the rapidity with which he insisted on their proceeding.
They remonstrated also upon the risk of damage to their horses by these forced marches.
Finally, there arose betwixt Isaac and his satellites a deadly feud, concerning the quantity of wine and ale to be allowed for consumption at each meal.
A middle course betwixt good and evil was all which he found himself capable of adopting, and he commanded two of his own squires to keep close by the litter, and to suffer no one to approach it.
If questioned, they were directed by their master to say, that the empty litter of the Lady Rowena was employed to transport one of their comrades who had been wounded in the scuffle.
This explanation was accordingly returned by these men to Front-de-Boeuf, when he questioned them why they did not make for the battlements upon the alarm. "A wounded companion!" he replied in great wrath and astonishment.
We are thrown off our guard by the general agitation of our feelings, and betray the intensity of those, which, at more tranquil periods, our prudence at least conceals, if it cannot altogether suppress them.
In finding herself once more by the side of Ivanhoe, Rebecca was astonished at the keen sensation of pleasure which she experienced, even at a time when all around them both was danger, if not despair.
As she felt his pulse, and enquired after his health, there was a softness in her touch and in her accents implying a kinder interest than she would herself have been pleased to have voluntarily expressed.
A sigh escaped, but it was scarce audible; and the questions which she asked the knight concerning his state of health were put in the tone of calm friendship.
His war-horse-his hunting hound, are dearer to him than the despised Jewess!" "My mind, gentle maiden," continued Ivanhoe, "is more disturbed by anxiety, than my body with pain.
The heavy, yet hasty step of the men-at-arms, traversed the battlements or resounded on the narrow and winding passages and stairs which led to the various bartisans and points of defence.
The voices of the knights were heard, animating their followers, or directing means of defence, while their commands were often drowned in the clashing of armour, or the clamorous shouts of those whom they addressed.
Tremendous as these sounds were, and yet more terrible from the awful event which they presaged, there was a sublimity mixed with them, which Rebecca's high-toned mind could feel even in that moment of terror.
It was an exterior fortification of no great height or strength, intended to protect the postern-gate, through which Cedric had been recently dismissed by Front-de-Boeuf.
The castle moat divided this species of barbican from the rest of the fortress, so that, in case of its being taken, it was easy to cut off the communication with the main building, by withdrawing the temporary bridge.
In the outwork was a sallyport corresponding to the postern of the castle, and the whole was surrounded by a strong palisade.
35 "A fetterlock and shacklebolt azure," said Ivanhoe; "I know not who may bear the device, but well I ween it might now be mine own.
Front-de-Boeuf and the Black Knight fight hand to hand on the breach, amid the roar of their followers, who watch the progress of the strife-Heaven strike with the cause of the oppressed and of the captive!
I will put my faith in the good knight whose axe hath rent heart-of-oak and bars of iron.-Singular," he again muttered to himself, "if there be two who can do a deed of such derring-do!
37-a fetterlock, and a shacklebolt on a field sable-what may that mean?-seest thou nought else, Rebecca, by which the Black Knight may be distinguished?" "Nothing," said the Jewess; "all about him is black as the wing of the night raven.
Nothing can I spy that can mark him further-but having once seen him put forth his strength in battle, methinks I could know him again among a thousand warriors.
He rushes to the fray as if he were summoned to a banquet.
There is more than mere strength, there seems as if the whole soul and spirit of the champion were given to every blow which he deals upon his enemies.
The love of battle is the food upon which we live-the dust of the 'melee' is the breath of our nostrils!
The sound of the trumpet wakes Judah no longer, and her despised children are now but the unresisting victims of hostile and military oppression.
Would to heaven that the shedding of mine own blood, drop by drop, could redeem the captivity of Judah!
Nay, would to God it could avail to set free my father, and this his benefactor, from the chains of the oppressor!
They swarmed close up to the walls, headed, as I think, by the knave who won the prize at the archery, for I knew his horn and baldric.
Our numbers are too few for the defence of every point, and the men complain that they can nowhere show themselves, but they are the mark for as many arrows as a parish-butt on a holyday even.
Front-de-Boeuf is dying too, so we shall receive no more aid from his bull's head and brutal strength.
They readily agreed that the point of greatest danger was that opposite to the outwork of which the assailants had possessed themselves.
To guard against such an evil, their numbers only permitted the knights to place sentinels from space to space along the walls in communication with each other, who might give the alarm whenever danger was threatened.
But among the vices of Front-de-Boeuf, a hard and griping man, avarice was predominant; and he preferred setting church and churchmen at defiance, to purchasing from them pardon and absolution at the price of treasure and of manors.
Thou hast been my evil angel, and I will be thine-I will dog thee till the very instant of dissolution!" "Detestable fury!" exclaimed Front-de-Boeuf, "that moment shalt thou never witness-Ho!
Saint Maur, and Stephen! seize this damned witch, and hurl her from the battlements headlong-she has betrayed us to the Saxon!-Ho!
Besides, it will be a marvel if the horsemen come not upon us from York, unless we speedily accomplish our purpose.
Follow me boldly across, and aid me to burst yon sallyport in the main wall of the castle.
Well aware of the importance of taking the foe by surprise, the Black Knight, closely followed by Cedric, threw himself upon the bridge, and reached the opposite side.
All saw the danger, and the boldest, even the stout Friar himself, avoided setting foot on the raft.
I vow to Saint Nicholas of Limoges a candlestick of pure gold-" "Spare thy vow," said the Templar, "and mark me.
Lead thy men down, as if to a sally; throw the postern-gate open-There are but two men who occupy the float, fling them into the moat, and push across for the barbican.
But haste thee, in the name of God!" De Bracy hastily drew his men together, and rushed down to the postern-gate, which he caused instantly to be thrown open.
But scarce was this done ere the portentous strength of the Black Knight forced his way inward in despite of De Bracy and his followers.
I will cope with this champion myself." And well and chivalrous did De Bracy that day maintain the fame he had acquired in the civil wars of that dreadful period.
De Bracy himself arose from the ground, and cast a sorrowful glance after his conqueror.
He trusts me not!" he repeated; "but have I deserved his trust?
38 "Alone," answered Rebecca, "I will not follow thee.
Hound of the Temple-stain to thine Order-set free the damsel!
Most of the garrison resisted to the uttermost-few of them asked quarter-none received it.
The noble Saxon was so fortunate as to reach his ward's apartment just as she had abandoned all hope of safety, and, with a crucifix clasped in agony to her bosom, sat in expectation of instant death.
He committed her to the charge of Gurth, to be conducted in safety to the barbican, the road to which was now cleared of the enemy, and not yet interrupted by the flames.
This accomplished, the loyal Cedric hastened in quest of his friend Athelstane, determined, at every risk to himself, to save that last scion of Saxon royalty.
Meantime the prisoners found no difficulty in making their escape into the anteroom, and from thence into the court of the castle, which was now the last scene of contest.
Beau-seant!'" exclaimed Bois-Guilbert, "thus be it to the maligners of the Temple-knights!
Taking advantage of the dismay which was spread by the fall of Athelstane, and calling aloud, "Those who would save themselves, follow me!" he pushed across the drawbridge, dispersing the archers who would have intercepted them.
He was followed by his Saracens, and some five or six men-at-arms, who had mounted their horses.
De Bracy!" he shouted, "art thou there?" "I am here," replied De Bracy, "but I am a prisoner." "Can I rescue thee?" cried Bois-Guilbert. "No," replied De Bracy; "I have rendered me, rescue or no rescue.
I will be true prisoner.
Save thyself-there are hawks abroad-put the seas betwixt you and England-I dare not say more." "Well," answered the Templar, "an thou wilt tarry there, remember I have redeemed word and glove.
39 The towering flames had now surmounted every obstruction, and rose to the evening skies one huge and burning beacon, seen far and wide through the adjacent country.
Tower after tower crashed down, with blazing roof and rafter; and the combatants were driven from the court-yard.
The vanquished, of whom very few remained, scattered and escaped into the neighbouring wood.
The victors, assembling in large bands, gazed with wonder, not unmixed with fear, upon the flames, in which their own ranks and arms glanced dusky red.
The maniac figure of the Saxon Ulrica was for a long time visible on the lofty stand she had chosen, tossing her arms abroad with wild exultation, as if she reined empress of the conflagration which she had raised.
At length, with a terrific crash, the whole turret gave way, and she perished in the flames which had consumed her tyrant.
An awful pause of horror silenced each murmur of the armed spectators, who, for the space of several minutes, stirred not a finger, save to sign the cross.
The green boughs glittered with all their pearls of dew.
Here Locksley assumed his seat-a throne of turf erected under the twisted branches of the huge oak, and the silvan followers were gathered around him.
A mass amongst Christian men best begins a busy morning."-No one had seen the Clerk of Copmanhurst.
Over gods forbode!" said the outlaw chief, "I trust the jolly priest hath but abidden by the wine-pot a thought too late.
The noble Athelstane of Coningsburgh is no more-the last sprout of the sainted Confessor!
Hopes have perished with him which can never return!-A sparkle hath been quenched by his blood, which no human breath can again rekindle!
My people, save the few who are now with me, do but tarry my presence to transport his honoured remains to their last mansion.
The Lady Rowena is desirous to return to Rotherwood, and must be escorted by a sufficient force.
But, to have saved you requites itself.
He stood under a tree in deep meditation, his arms crossed upon his breast, and Rowena was in hopes she might pass him unobserved.
He looked up, however, and, when aware of her presence, a deep flush of shame suffused his handsome countenance.
Thou hast earned one in the halls of Rotherwood, noble knight.
To Rotherwood will I come, brave Saxon, and that speedily; but, as now, pressing matters of moment detain me from your halls.
Many of his vassals had assembled at the news of his death, and followed the bier with all the external marks, at least, of dejection and sorrow.
He whose prisoner thou art scorns to take mean revenge for what is past.
Meanwhile the knight caught a horse by the rein, for several which had been taken in the stables of Front-de-Boeuf stood accoutred around, and were a valuable part of the booty.
The rest was divided amongst the outlaws, according to their rank and merit, and the judgment of the Chief, on all such doubtful questions as occurred, was delivered with great shrewdness, and received with absolute submission.
It may be the office has helped to cover some of his canonical irregularities.
Be conformable, Isaac, and repeat the words after me.
Ave Maria'!-" "Nay, we will have no profanation, mad Priest," said Locksley; "let us rather hear where you found this prisoner of thine." "By Saint Dunstan," said the Friar, "I found him where I sought for better ware!
But his adversary stood firm as a rock.
But who may resist his fate?
The buffet of the Knight was given with such strength and good-will, that the Friar rolled head over heels upon the plain, to the great amazement of all the spectators.
But he arose neither angry nor crestfallen. "Brother," said he to the Knight, "thou shouldst have used thy strength with more discretion.
But an thou gibest more of it, thou shalt learn I can give as well as take." "Peace all!" said the Captain.
And thou, Jew, think of thy ransom; thou needest not to be told that thy race are held to be accursed in all Christian communities, and trust me that we cannot endure thy presence among us.
The prisoner I speak of is better booty-a jolly monk riding to visit his leman, an I may judge by his horse-gear and wearing apparel.-Here cometh the worthy prelate, as pert as a pyet.
What order is this among ye?
Be ye Turks or Christians, that handle a churchman?-Know ye what it is, 'manus imponere in servos Domini'?
Nay, then, reverend father, I think you had better comply with his demands-for Allan-a-Dale is the very man to abide by his word when he has so pledged it.
43 "You do but jest with me," said the astounded Prior, with a forced laugh; "and I love a good jest with all my heart.
The Captain shook his head. "Sir Prior," he said, "thou blowest a merry note, but it may not ransom thee-we cannot afford, as the legend on a good knight's shield hath it, to set thee free for a blast.
I pray thee be more conformable in this matter of my ransom.
I have trafficked with the good fathers, and bought wheat and barley, and fruits of the earth, and also much wool.
I pray of your reverence to remember that I force my monies upon no one.
But when churchman and layman, prince and prior, knight and priest, come knocking to Isaac's door, they borrow not his shekels with these uncivil terms.
It is then, Friend Isaac, will you pleasure us in this matter, and our day shall be truly kept, so God sa' me?-and Kind Isaac, if ever you served man, show yourself a friend in this need!
The blessing of Jacob be upon thee! canst thou tell me aught of her safety?" "It was she, then," said the yeoman, "who was carried off by the proud Templar, when he broke through our ranks on yester-even.
The Captain drew himself back, and extricated himself from the Jew's grasp, not without some marks of contempt. "Nay, beshrew thee, man, up with thee!
But the leader of the yeomen led him aside. "Advise thee well, Isaac," said Locksley, "what thou wilt do in this matter; my counsel to thee is to make a friend of this churchman.
He is vain, Isaac, and he is covetous; at least he needs money to supply his profusion.
Thou canst easily gratify his greed; for think not that I am blinded by thy pretexts of poverty.
I am intimately acquainted, Isaac, with the very iron chest in which thou dost keep thy money-bags-What! know I not the great stone beneath the apple-tree, that leads into the vaulted chamber under thy garden at York?
The Jew grew as pale as death-"But fear nothing from me," continued the yeoman, "for we are of old acquainted.
But I may not help it-The Templars lances are too strong for my archery in the open field-they would scatter us like dust.
Had I but known it was Rebecca when she was borne off, something might have been done; but now thou must needs proceed by policy.
I have heard, too, thou dost love a brace of good dogs and a fleet horse, and it may well be that, loving things which are costly to come by, thou hatest not a purse of gold.
You are welcome to form your judgment of me, and I may use my conjectures touching you, though neither of our shafts may hit the mark they are shot at.
For he that does good, having the unlimited power to do evil, deserves praise not only for the good which he performs, but for the evil which he forbears.
Fare thee well, gallant Outlaw!
Waldemar Fitzurse, his able and politic agent, was at secret work among them, tempering all to that pitch of courage which was necessary in making an open declaration of their purpose.
But their enterprise was delayed by the absence of more than one main limb of the confederacy.
Isaac the Jew also seemed to have vanished, and with him the hope of certain sums of money, making up the subsidy for which Prince John had contracted with that Israelite and his brethren.
Waldemar brought the rumour to Prince John, announcing, that he feared its truth the more that they had set out with a small attendance, for the purpose of committing an assault on the Saxon Cedric and his attendants.
We shall be finely helped, if the churl Saxons should have realized your Grace's vision, of converting feudal drawbridges into gibbets; and yonder bold-spirited Cedric seemeth one to whom such an imagination might occur.
I heard him say he was about to depart from them.
As soon as Richard's return is blown abroad, he will be at the head of an army, and all is then over with us.
I would counsel you, my lord, either to fly to France or take the protection of the Queen Mother." "I seek no safety for myself," said Prince John, haughtily; "that I could secure by a word spoken to my brother.
But although you, De Bracy, and you, Waldemar Fitzurse, are so ready to abandon me, I should not greatly delight to see your heads blackening on Clifford's gate yonder.
Thinkest thou, Waldemar, that the wily Archbishop will not suffer thee to be taken from the very horns of the altar, would it make his peace with King Richard?
And forgettest thou, De Bracy, that Robert Estoteville lies betwixt thee and Hull with all his forces, and that the Earl of Essex is gathering his followers?
If we had reason to fear these levies even before Richard's return, trowest thou there is any doubt now which party their leaders will take?
I say the best prison is that which is made by the sexton-no dungeon like a church-vault!
An unhappy prince am I.
Thus speaking, he left the apartment.
He goes to make my brother prisoner," said Prince John to De Bracy, "with as little touch of compunction, as if it but concerned the liberty of a Saxon franklin.
Surely we will pause ere we give an office so high to one who shows evidently how little he reverences our blood, by his so readily undertaking this enterprise against Richard.
Thou dost think, I warrant, that thou hast lost somewhat of our regard, by thy boldly declining this unpleasing task-But no, Maurice!
I rather honour thee for thy virtuous constancy.
There are things most necessary to be done, the perpetrator of which we neither love nor honour; and there may be refusals to serve us, which shall rather exalt in our estimation those who deny our request.
The arrest of my unfortunate brother forms no such good title to the high office of Chancellor, as thy chivalrous and courageous denial establishes in thee to the truncheon of High Marshal.
Think of this, De Bracy, and begone to thy charge." "Fickle tyrant!" muttered De Bracy, as he left the presence of the Prince; "evil luck have they who trust thee.
Thy Chancellor, indeed!-He who hath the keeping of thy conscience shall have an easy charge, I trow.
Nathan Ben Israel received his suffering countryman with that kindness which the law prescribed, and which the Jews practised to each other.
It might cost him, he said, his life.
His countenance is kindled in anger against those who have departed from the vow which they have made, and great is the fear of those sons of Belial.
Specially hath this proud man extended his glove over the children of Judah, as holy David over Edom, holding the murder of a Jew to be an offering of as sweet savour as the death of a Saracen.
Yet, if thou canst, keep thee from the presence of the Grand Master, for to do foul scorn to our people is his morning and evening delight.
It was strong and well fortified, a point never neglected by these knights, and which the disordered state of England rendered peculiarly necessary.
A knight was now and then seen to cross the court in his long white cloak, his head depressed on his breast, and his arms folded.
A formidable warrior, his thin and severe features retained the soldier's fierceness of expression; an ascetic bigot, they were no less marked by the emaciation of abstinence, and the spiritual pride of the self-satisfied devotee.
His stature was tall, and his gait, undepressed by age and toil, was erect and stately.
His companion, who attended on this great personage, had nearly the same dress in all respects, but his extreme deference towards his Superior showed that no other equality subsisted between them.
To thee alone can I tell how oft, since I came to this kingdom, I have desired to be dissolved and to be with the just.
Not one object in England hath met mine eye which it could rest upon with pleasure, save the tombs of our brethren, beneath the massive roof of our Temple Church in yonder proud capital.
Bear with me, brother, although I should something vaunt myself.
What say our statutes, and how do our brethren observe them?
They should wear no vain or worldly ornament, no crest upon their helmet, no gold upon stirrup or bridle-bit; yet who now go pranked out so proudly and so gaily as the poor soldiers of the Temple?
They are forbidden by our statutes to take one bird by means of another, to shoot beasts with bow or arblast, to halloo to a hunting-horn, or to spur the horse after game.
But now, at hunting and hawking, and each idle sport of wood and river, who so prompt as the Templars in all these fond vanities?
They were commanded to extirpate magic and heresy.
Lo! they are charged with studying the accursed cabalistical secrets of the Jews, and the magic of the Paynim Saracens.
Simpleness of diet was prescribed to them, roots, pottage, gruels, eating flesh but thrice a-week, because the accustomed feeding on flesh is a dishonourable corruption of the body; and behold, their tables groan under delicate fare!
I have seen them, Conrade, in the visions of the night-their sainted eyes shed tears for the sins and follies of their brethren, and for the foul and shameful luxury in which they wallow. Beaumanoir, they say, thou slumberest-awake!
There is a stain in the fabric of the Temple, deep and foul as that left by the streaks of leprosy on the walls of the infected houses of old.
No naked slave, ushered into the presence of some mighty prince, could approach his judgment-seat with more profound reverence and terror than that with which the Jew drew near to the presence of the Grand Master.
When he had approached within the distance of three yards, Beaumanoir made a sign with his staff that he should come no farther.
To tell his tale might be interpreted into scandalizing the Order; yet, unless he told it, what hope could he have of achieving his daughter's deliverance?
Beaumanoir saw his mortal apprehension, and condescended to give him some assurance. "Fear nothing," he said, "for thy wretched person, Jew, so thou dealest uprightly in this matter.
Reverend father," said Conrade, interposing, though with much deference, "wilt thou break the seal?" "And will I not?" said Beaumanoir, with a frown.
Wherefore we pray you heartily to beware, and to be found watching, even as the Holy Text hath it, 'Invenientur vigilantes'.
For what saith the text, 'Vinum laetificat cor hominis'; and again, 'Rex delectabitur pulchritudine tua'. "Till which merry meeting, we wish you farewell.
Given from this den of thieves, about the hour of matins, "Aymer Pr.
This Rebecca of York was a pupil of that Miriam of whom thou hast heard.
Thou shalt hear the Jew own it even now.
Then turning to Isaac, he said aloud, "Thy daughter, then, is prisoner with Brian de Bois-Guilbert?" "Ay, reverend valorous sir," stammered poor Isaac, "and whatsoever ransom a poor man may pay for her deliverance--" "Peace!" said the Grand Master.
This thy daughter hath practised the art of healing, hath she not?" "Ay, gracious sir," answered the Jew, with more confidence; "and knight and yeoman, squire and vassal, may bless the goodly gift which Heaven hath assigned to her.
Many a one can testify that she hath recovered them by her art, when every other human aid hath proved vain; but the blessing of the God of Jacob was upon her." Beaumanoir turned to Mont-Fitchet with a grim smile.
See, brother," he said, "the deceptions of the devouring Enemy!
Behold the baits with which he fishes for souls, giving a poor space of earthly life in exchange for eternal happiness hereafter.
Well said our blessed rule, 'Semper percutiatur leo vorans'.-Up on the lion!
Her body was burnt at a stake, and her ashes were scattered to the four winds; and so be it with me and mine Order, if I do not as much to her pupil, and more also!
He could do not better than return to the house of the Rabbi, and endeavour, through his means, to learn how his daughter was to be disposed of.
He had hitherto feared for her honour, he was now to tremble for her life.
But since your reverend wisdom hath discovered this Jewish queen to be a sorceress, perchance it may account fully for his enamoured folly." "It doth!-it doth!" said Beaumanoir.
See, brother Conrade, the peril of yielding to the first devices and blandishments of Satan!
He shall burst the bands of this Delilah, as Sampson burst the two new cords with which the Philistines had bound him, and shall slaughter the infidels, even heaps upon heaps.
The most petty baron may arrest, try, and condemn a witch found within his own domain. And shall that power be denied to the Grand Master of the Temple within a preceptory of his Order?-No!-we will judge and condemn.
The witch shall be taken out of the land, and the wickedness thereof shall be forgiven.
Prepare the Castle-hall for the trial of the sorceress." Albert Malvoisin bowed and retired,-not to give directions for preparing the hall, but to seek out Brian de Bois-Guilbert, and communicate to him how matters were likely to terminate.
It was not long ere he found him, foaming with indignation at a repulse he had anew sustained from the fair Jewess.
The unthinking," he said, "the ungrateful, to scorn him who, amidst blood and flames, would have saved her life at the risk of his own!
I abode until roof and rafters crackled and crashed around me.
I was the butt of a hundred arrows; they rattled on mine armour like hailstones against a latticed casement, and the only use I made of my shield was for her protection.
The devil, that possessed her race with obstinacy, has concentrated its full force in her single person!" "The devil," said the Preceptor, "I think, possessed you both.
How oft have I preached to you caution, if not continence?
By the mass, I think old Lucas Beaumanoir guesses right, when he maintains she hath cast a spell over you." "Lucas Beaumanoir!"-said Bois-Guilbert reproachfully-"Are these your precautions, Malvoisin?
Hast thou suffered the dotard to learn that Rebecca is in the Preceptory?" "How could I help it?" said the Preceptor.
I neglected nothing that could keep secret your mystery; but it is betrayed, and whether by the devil or no, the devil only can tell.
But I have turned the matter as I could; you are safe if you renounce Rebecca.
You are pitied-the victim of magical delusion.
She is a sorceress, and must suffer as such." "She shall not, by Heaven!" said Bois-Guilbert. "By Heaven, she must and will!" said Malvoisin.
Neither you nor any one else can save her.
Albert, thou art my friend.
And, to be frank with you, brother, I would not embark with you in this matter, even if I could hope to bring my bark to haven.
I have risked enough already for your sake.
I have no mind to encounter a sentence of degradation, or even to lose my Preceptory, for the sake of a painted piece of Jewish flesh and blood.
And you, if you will be guided by my counsel, will give up this wild-goose chase, and fly your hawk at some other game.
Think, Bois-Guilbert,-thy present rank, thy future honours, all depend on thy place in the Order.
Shouldst thou adhere perversely to thy passion for this Rebecca, thou wilt give Beaumanoir the power of expelling thee, and he will not neglect it.
He is jealous of the truncheon which he holds in his trembling gripe, and he knows thou stretchest thy bold hand towards it.
Doubt not he will ruin thee, if thou affordest him a pretext so fair as thy protection of a Jewish sorceress.
Give him his scope in this matter, for thou canst not control him.
I tell thee once more, that thou canst not save Rebecca.
I tell thee once more, thou canst but perish with her.
I will give the hoary bigot no advantage over me; and for Rebecca, she hath not merited at my hand that I should expose rank and honour for her sake.
I will cast her off-yes, I will leave her to her fate, unless-" "Qualify not thy wise and necessary resolution," said Malvoisin; "women are but the toys which amuse our lighter hours-ambition is the serious business of life.
Perish a thousand such frail baubles as this Jewess, before thy manly step pause in the brilliant career that lies stretched before thee!
The noise announced the arrival of several persons, and the circumstance rather gave her joy; for she was more afraid of the solitary visits of the fierce and passionate Bois-Guilbert than of any evil that could befall her besides.
At his feet was placed a table, occupied by two scribes, chaplains of the Order, whose duty it was to reduce to formal record the proceedings of the day.
The black dresses, bare scalps, and demure looks of these church-men, formed a strong contrast to the warlike appearance of the knights who attended, either as residing in the Preceptory, or as come thither to attend upon their Grand Master.
By far the greater part of those inferior persons were, in one rank or other, connected with the Order, and were accordingly distinguished by their black dresses.
But peasants from the neighbouring country were not refused admittance; for it was the pride of Beaumanoir to render the edifying spectacle of the justice which he administered as public as possible.
His large blue eyes seemed to expand as he gazed around the assembly, and his countenance appeared elated by the conscious dignity, and imaginary merit, of the part which he was about to perform.
Semper Leo percutiatur!'" This was communicated apart to his confidential follower, Conrade Mont-Fitchet.
Also, in all such chapters, it is our duty to hear the advice of our brethren, and to proceed according to our own pleasure.
A low murmur went through the assembly.
Thus the dangers which Bois-Guilbert surmounted, in themselves sufficiently great, became portentous in their narrative.
The evidence of Malvoisin was skilfully guarded.
Joyfully will I submit to any penance he shall assign me." "Thou hast spoken well, Brother Albert," said Beaumanoir; "thy motives were good, since thou didst judge it right to arrest thine erring brother in his career of precipitate folly.
But thy conduct was wrong; as he that would stop a runaway steed, and seizing by the stirrup instead of the bridle, receiveth injury himself, instead of accomplishing his purpose.
Thirteen paternosters are assigned by our pious founder for matins, and nine for vespers; be those services doubled by thee.
Thrice a-week are Templars permitted the use of flesh; but do thou keep fast for all the seven days.
Herman was an ancient warrior, whose face was marked with scars inflicted by the sabre of the Moslemah, and had great rank and consideration among his brethren.
He arose and bowed to the Grand Master, who instantly granted him license of speech.
I command thee to reply to him." Bois-Guilbert turned his head towards the Grand Master when thus addressed, and remained silent. "He is possessed by a dumb devil," said the Grand Master.
Avoid thee, Sathanus!-Speak, Brian de Bois-Guilbert, I conjure thee, by this symbol of our Holy Order." Bois-Guilbert made an effort to suppress his rising scorn and indignation, the expression of which, he was well aware, would have little availed him.
Brian de Bois-Guilbert," he answered, "replies not, most Reverend Father, to such wild and vague charges.
But thou hast our pardon, judging thou speakest less of thine own suggestion than from the impulse of him whom by Heaven's leave, we will quell and drive forth from our assembly.
Perfectly cured he certainly was not, for he supported himself forward on crutches to give evidence.
Moreover, he said, she had given him a pot of that precious ointment, and furnished him with a piece of money withal, to return to the house of his father, near to Templestowe.
It well suits brutes like thee to be tampering and trinketing with hellish cures, and to be giving your labour to the sons of mischief.
I tell thee, the fiend can impose diseases for the very purpose of removing them, in order to bring into credit some diabolical fashion of cure.
When this medical research was ended, the Saxon peasant desired humbly to have back the medicine which he had found so salutary; but the Grand Master frowned severely at the request.
Opening her lips for the first time, she replied patiently, but with dignity,-"That it was not the wont of the daughters of her people to uncover their faces when alone in an assembly of strangers.
The sweet tones of her voice, and the softness of her reply, impressed on the audience a sentiment of pity and sympathy.
But Beaumanoir, in whose mind the suppression of each feeling of humanity which could interfere with his imagined duty, was a virtue of itself, repeated his commands that his victim should be unveiled.
Her exceeding beauty excited a murmur of surprise, and the younger knights told each other with their eyes, in silent correspondence, that Brian's best apology was in the power of her real charms, rather than of her imaginary witchcraft.
Peace, I pray thee-go home and save thyself." Higg was about to be thrust out by the compassion of the warders, who were apprehensive lest his clamorous grief should draw upon them reprehension, and upon himself punishment.
But he promised to be silent, and was permitted to remain.
The two men-at-arms, with whom Albert Malvoisin had not failed to communicate upon the import of their testimony, were now called forward.
The circumstances of their evidence would have been, in modern days, divided into two classes-those which were immaterial, and those which were actually and physically impossible.
One of the soldiers had seen her work a cure upon a wounded man, brought with them to the castle of Torquilstone.
This legend was probably founded upon the fact, that Rebecca had attended on the wounded Ivanhoe when in the castle of Torquilstone.
But he is of your own faith, and his lightest affirmance would weigh down the most solemn protestations of the distressed Jewess.
The murmuring commentary which ran through the assembly at the strange reply of Bois-Guilbert, gave Rebecca leisure to examine and instantly to destroy the scroll unobserved.
When the whisper had ceased, the Grand Master spoke. "Rebecca, thou canst derive no benefit from the evidence of this unhappy knight, for whom, as we well perceive, the Enemy is yet too powerful.
Hast thou aught else to say?" "There is yet one chance of life left to me," said Rebecca, "even by your own fierce laws.
Life has been miserable-miserable, at least, of late-but I will not cast away the gift of God, while he affords me the means of defending it.
His features relaxed in their usual severity as he gazed upon the beautiful creature before him, alone, unfriended, and defending herself with so much spirit and courage.
He crossed himself twice, as doubting whence arose the unwonted softening of a heart, which on such occasions used to resemble in hardness the steel of his sword.
At length he spoke. "Damsel," he said, "if the pity I feel for thee arise from any practice thine evil arts have made on me, great is thy guilt.
But I rather judge it the kinder feelings of nature, which grieves that so goodly a form should be a vessel of perdition.
Repent, my daughter-confess thy witchcrafts-turn thee from thine evil faith-embrace this holy emblem, and all shall yet be well with thee here and hereafter.
In some sisterhood of the strictest order, shalt thou have time for prayer and fitting penance, and that repentance not to be repented of.
Moreover, we are knights and soldiers as well as men of religion, and shame it were to us upon any pretence, to refuse proffered combat.
Thus, therefore, stands the case.
Rebecca, the daughter of Isaac of York, is, by many frequent and suspicious circumstances, defamed of sorcery practised on the person of a noble knight of our holy Order, and hath challenged the combat in proof of her innocence.
And therewith she proffered her gage.
Alas! when I boasted of thy charity, I little thought I was leading thee into danger!" "God," said Rebecca, "is the disposer of all.
He can turn back the captivity of Judah, even by the weakest instrument.
To execute his message the snail is as sure a messenger as the falcon.
Farewell!-Life and death are in thy haste." The peasant took the scroll, which contained only a few lines in Hebrew.
Many of the crowd would have dissuaded him from touching a document so suspicious; but Higg was resolute in the service of his benefactress.
The physician was at first inclined to ascribe this sudden and violent emotion to the effects of insanity; and, adhering to his original purpose, began once again to handle his implements.
But Isaac soon convinced him of his error. "Child of my sorrow," he said, "well shouldst thou be called Benoni, instead of Rebecca!
She is captive unto those men of Belial, and they will wreak their cruelty upon her, sparing neither for her youth nor her comely favour.
Wherefore look now what thou doest, and whether there be any rescue.
One Nazarene warrior might indeed bear arms in my behalf, even Wilfred, son of Cedric, whom the Gentiles call Ivanhoe.
But he may not yet endure the weight of his armour.
And say unto him, even unto him, even unto Wilfred, the son of Cedric, that if Rebecca live, or if Rebecca die, she liveth or dieth wholly free of the guilt she is charged withal.
It may be he will help thee with counsel or with strength; for the youth hath favour in the eyes of Richard, called of the Nazarenes Coeur-de-Lion, and the tidings that he hath returned are constant in the land.
But he cannot bear his armour, and what other Christian shall do battle for the oppressed of Zion?" "Nay, but," said the Rabbi, "thou speakest as one that knoweth not the Gentiles.
With gold shalt thou buy their valour, even as with gold thou buyest thine own safety.
Be of good courage, and do thou set forward to find out this Wilfred of Ivanhoe.
I will also up and be doing, for great sin it were to leave thee in thy calamity.
The crippled peasant remained for some time looking after them. "These dog-Jews!" said he; "to take no more notice of a free guild-brother, than if I were a bond slave or a Turk, or a circumcised Hebrew like themselves!
They might have flung me a mancus or two, however.
I was not obliged to bring their unhallowed scrawls, and run the risk of being bewitched, as more folks than one told me.
Within your call are guards, over whom I have no authority.
A thrust with a lance, a stroke with a sword, were to me little-To you, a spring from a dizzy battlement, a stroke with a sharp poniard, has no terrors, compared with what either thinks disgrace.
Surely this is a parting with your treasure for that which is not bread-but deem not so of me.
Thy resolution may fluctuate on the wild and changeful billows of human opinion, but mine is anchored on the Rock of Ages." "Silence, maiden," answered the Templar; "such discourse now avails but little.
His will is the mountain stream, which may indeed be turned for a little space aside by the rock, but fails not to find its course to the ocean.
That scroll which warned thee to demand a champion, from whom couldst thou think it came, if not from Bois-Guilbert?
Such is my certain doom, except I appear in arms against thy cause.
Ivanhoe, as thou well knowest, is unable to bear his corslet, and Richard is in a foreign prison.
But if I appear not, then am I a degraded and dishonoured knight, accused of witchcraft and of communion with infidels-the illustrious name which has grown yet more so under my wearing, becomes a hissing and a reproach.
Be a man, be a Christian!
Listen to me, Rebecca," he said, again softening his tone; "England,-Europe,-is not the world.
There are spheres in which we may act, ample enough even for my ambition.
I tell thee, proud Templar, that not in thy fiercest battles hast thou displayed more of thy vaunted courage, than has been shown by woman when called upon to suffer by affection or duty.
Heaven in ire has driven him from his country, but industry has opened to him the only road to power and to influence, which oppression has left unbarred.
Yet are there those among them who shame not such high descent, and of such shall be the daughter of Isaac the son of Adonikam!
Who would not weep for thee?-The tear, that has been a stranger to these eyelids for twenty years, moistens them as I gaze on thee.
But it must be-nothing may now save thy life.
Thou and I are but the blind instruments of some irresistible fatality, that hurries us along, like goodly vessels driving before the storm, which are dashed against each other, and so perish.
Forgive me, then, and let us part, at least, as friends part.
I have assailed thy resolution in vain, and mine own is fixed as the adamantine decrees of fate." "Thus," said Rebecca, "do men throw on fate the issue of their own wild passions.
But I do forgive thee, Bois-Guilbert, though the author of my early death.
I have been a child of battle from my youth upward, high in my views, steady and inflexible in pursuing them.
What if the Grand Master, or his spy Conrade, had come hither?
By Heaven, Malvoisin, yonder girl hath well-nigh unmanned me.
No drop of the blood of this most excellent creature shall be spilled by my sanction." "Thou canst not fly," said the Preceptor; "thy ravings have excited suspicion, and thou wilt not be permitted to leave the Preceptory.
Go and make the essay-present thyself before the gate, and command the bridge to be lowered, and mark what answer thou shalt receive.-Thou are surprised and offended; but is it not the better for thee?
Wert thou to fly, what would ensue but the reversal of thy arms, the dishonour of thine ancestry, the degradation of thy rank?-Think on it.
Where shall thine old companions in arms hide their heads when Brian de Bois-Guilbert, the best lance of the Templars, is proclaimed recreant, amid the hisses of the assembled people?
What grief will be at the Court of France!
Would to God, Richard, or any of his vaunting minions of England, would appear in these lists!
But the Black Knight would not listen to the proposal. "Rest this day; thou wilt have scarce strength enough to travel on the next.
I will have no guide with me but honest Wamba, who can play priest or fool as I shall be most in the humour." "And I," said Wamba, "will attend you with all my heart.
I would fain see the feasting at the funeral of Athelstane; for, if it be not full and frequent, he will rise from the dead to rebuke cook, sewer, and cupbearer; and that were a sight worth seeing.
He is a quick, apprehensive knave, who sees his neighbours blind side, and knows how to keep the lee-gage when his passions are blowing high.
But valour is a sturdy fellow, that makes all split.
Ivanhoe followed them with his eyes, until they were lost in the shades of the surrounding forest, and then returned into the convent. But shortly after matin-song, he requested to see the Prior.
56 "Surely," said the worthy churchman; "you shall have mine own ambling jennet, and I would it ambled as easy for your sake as that of the Abbot of Saint Albans.
Gurth shall carry mine armour; and for the rest, rely on it, that as I will not overload Malkin's back, she shall not overcome my patience.
I would I had not trusted Malkin to his keeping, for, crippled as I am with the cold rheum, I am undone if aught but good befalls her.
And if they do none of these, as great men will forget little men's service, truly I shall hold me well repaid in having done that which is right.
And it is now well-nigh the fitting time to summon the brethren to breakfast in the refectory-Ah!
You said nothing so well, Sir Knight, I will be sworn, when you held drunken vespers with the bluff Hermit.-But to go on.
But when they have struck an even balance, Heaven help them with whom they next open the account!
They are now expecting their harvest, and are reinforced with the soldiers that escaped from Torquilstone.
Had they been honest men, they had kept the path.
The other two were averted by the gorget, and by the shield which hung around his neck. "Thanks, trusty armourers," said the Knight.-"Wamba, let us close with them,"-and he rode straight to the thicket.
The Black Knight's eyes seemed to flash fire even through the aperture of his visor.
He raised himself in his stirrups with an air of inexpressible dignity, and exclaimed, "What means this, my masters!"-The men made no other reply than by drawing their swords and attacking him on every side, crying, "Die, tyrant!" "Ha!
If thou art found on English ground after the space I have allotted thee, thou diest-or if thou breathest aught that can attaint the honour of my house, by Saint George! not the altar itself shall be a sanctuary.
561 "King of Outlaws, and Prince of good fellows!" said the King, "who hath not heard a name that has been borne as far as Palestine?
There lies the trophy of my sword, that good grey gelding, whom I heartily wish upon his legs again, conditioning his master lay there houghed in his place.
It is true, I gave a little ground at first, for a motley jacket does not brook lance-heads, as a steel doublet will.
But if I fought not at sword's point, you will grant me that I sounded the onset." "And to good purpose, honest Wamba," replied the King.
Thy good service shall not be forgotten." "'Confiteor!
Who has seen the accursed Tuck?' says another.
Nor was he less surprised to see Richard surrounded by so many silvan attendants, the outlaws, as they seemed to be, of the forest, and a perilous retinue therefore for a prince.
He hesitated whether to address the King as the Black Knight-errant, or in what other manner to demean himself towards him.
Estoteville and Bohun will not be strong enough to move forward to York for twenty-four hours.
I must have news of Salisbury from the south; and of Beauchamp, in Warwickshire; and of Multon and Percy in the north.
The Chancellor must make sure of London.
Novelty in society and adventure were the zest of life to Richard Coeur-de-Lion, and it had its highest relish when enhanced by dangers encountered and surmounted.
But in his present company Richard showed to the greatest imaginable advantage.
As the flagon went round, the rough foresters soon lost their awe for the presence of Majesty.
The song and the jest were exchanged-the stories of former deeds were told with advantage; and at length, and while boasting of their successful infraction of the laws, no one recollected they were speaking in presence of their natural guardian.
The merry King, nothing heeding his dignity any more than his company, laughed, quaffed, and jested among the jolly band.
The natural and rough sense of Robin Hood led him to be desirous that the scene should be closed ere any thing should occur to disturb its harmony, the more especially that he observed Ivanhoe's brow clouded with anxiety.
The Friar dropped the flagon, and grasped his quarter-staff.
Wamba stopt short in the midst of a jest, and betook himself to sword and target.
All the others stood to their weapons. Men of their precarious course of life change readily from the banquet to the battle; and, to Richard, the exchange seemed but a succession of pleasure.
Have we not already granted thee a full pardon for all transgressions?
Thinkest thou our word is a feather, to be blown backward and forward between us?
Thou canst not have had time to commit any new offence since that time?" "Ay, but I have though," answered the yeoman, "if it be an offence to deceive my prince for his own advantage.
It is well, bold Robin!-but when you come to see me in merry London, I trust to be a less niggard host.
Thou art right, however, good fellow.
Let us therefore to horse and away-Wilfred has been impatient this hour.
The outer walls have probably been added by the Normans, but the inner keep bears token of very great antiquity.
A barrow, in the vicinity of the castle, is pointed out as the tomb of the memorable Hengist; and various monuments, of great antiquity and curiosity, are shown in the neighbouring churchyard.
57 When Coeur-de-Lion and his retinue approached this rude yet stately building, it was not, as at present, surrounded by external fortifications.
It bore no emblem of the deceased's birth or quality, for armorial bearings were then a novelty among the Norman chivalry themselves and, were totally unknown to the Saxons.
In one place cooks were toiling to roast huge oxen, and fat sheep; in another, hogsheads of ale were set abroach, to be drained at the freedom of all comers.
Groups of every description were to be seen devouring the food and swallowing the liquor thus abandoned to their discretion.
58 One sent forth the praises of Athelstane in a doleful panegyric; another, in a Saxon genealogical poem, rehearsed the uncouth and harsh names of his noble ancestry.
Jesters and jugglers were not awanting, nor was the occasion of the assembly supposed to render the exercise of their profession indecorous or improper.
Indeed the ideas of the Saxons on these occasions were as natural as they were rude.
If sorrow was thirsty, there was drink-if hungry, there was food-if it sunk down upon and saddened the heart, here were the means supplied of mirth, or at least of amusement.
Besides, the approach of two knights, for such their dress bespoke them, was a rare event at a Saxon solemnity, and could not but be regarded as a sort of honour to the deceased and his family.
And in his sable dress, and holding in his hand his white wand of office, this important personage made way through the miscellaneous assemblage of guests, thus conducting Richard and Ivanhoe to the entrance of the tower.
The downcast and sorrowful looks of these venerable men, their silence and their mournful posture, formed a strong contrast to the levity of the revellers on the outside of the castle.
Upon the entrance of Richard (only known to him as the valorous Knight of the Fetterlock) he arose gravely, and gave him welcome by the ordinary salutation, "Waes hael", raising at the same time a goblet to his head.
The King, no stranger to the customs of his English subjects, returned the greeting with the appropriate words, "Drinc hael", and partook of a cup which was handed to him by the sewer.
In maintaining this pious watch and ward, the good monks were particularly careful not to interrupt their hymns for an instant, lest Zernebock, the ancient Saxon Apollyon, should lay his clutches on the departed Athelstane.
Nor were they less careful to prevent any unhallowed layman from touching the pall, which, having been that used at the funeral of Saint Edmund, was liable to be desecrated, if handled by the profane.
Her long mourning robes and her flowing wimple of black cypress, enhanced the whiteness of her skin, and the beauty of her light-coloured and flowing tresses, which time had neither thinned nor mingled with silver.
Her countenance expressed the deepest sorrow that is consistent with resignation.
I thank, too, his courtesy, and that of his companion, which hath brought them hither to behold the widow of Adeling, the mother of Athelstane, in her deep hour of sorrow and lamentation.
From this room, ere yet the door was opened, proceeded a low and melancholy strain of vocal music.
When they entered, they found themselves in the presence of about twenty matrons and maidens of distinguished Saxon lineage.
Neither was this propensity (if we must needs confess the truth) at all diminished by the appearance of two strange knights, which occasioned some looking up, peeping, and whispering.
Rowena alone, too proud to be vain, paid her greeting to her deliverer with a graceful courtesy.
I require of thee, as a man of thy word, on pain of being held faithless, man-sworn, and 'nidering', 581 to forgive and receive to thy paternal affection the good knight, Wilfred of Ivanhoe.
The son of Hereward knows how to keep his word, even when it has been passed to a Norman.
But let me see thee use the dress and costume of thy English ancestry-no short cloaks, no gay bonnets, no fantastic plumage in my decent household.
He that would be the son of Cedric, must show himself of English ancestry.-Thou art about to speak," he added, sternly, "and I guess the topic.
59 The effect of this apparition on the persons present was utterly appalling.
But as it was, down I went, stunned, indeed, but unwounded.
Others, of both sides, were beaten down and slaughtered above me, so that I never recovered my senses until I found myself in a coffin-(an open one, by good luck)-placed before the altar of the church of Saint Edmund's.
I sneezed repeatedly-groaned-awakened and would have arisen, when the Sacristan and Abbot, full of terror, came running at the noise, surprised, doubtless, and no way pleased to find the man alive, whose heirs they had proposed themselves to be.
I asked for wine-they gave me some, but it must have been highly medicated, for I slept yet more deeply than before, and wakened not for many hours.
I had strange thoughts of what had befallen me, when the door of my dungeon creaked, and two villain monks entered.
I heard them droning out their death-psalms, little judging they were sung in respect for my soul by those who were thus famishing my body.
They went, however, and I waited long for food-no wonder-the gouty Sacristan was even too busy with his own provender to mind mine.
At length down he came, with an unstable step and a strong flavour of wine and spices about his person.
Good cheer had opened his heart, for he left me a nook of pasty and a flask of wine, instead of my former fare.
I ate, drank, and was invigorated; when, to add to my good luck, the Sacristan, too totty to discharge his duty of turnkey fitly, locked the door beside the staple, so that it fell ajar.
The light, the food, the wine, set my invention to work.
The staple to which my chains were fixed, was more rusted than I or the villain Abbot had supposed.
I burst in upon them, and the fashion of my grave-clothes, as well as the clanking of my chains, made me more resemble an inhabitant of the other world than of this.
Fortunately he missed the aim; and on my approaching to grapple with him, took to his heels and ran for it.
I tell thee, never will dawn a morrow so auspicious as the next, for the deliverance of the noble Saxon race." "Talk not to me of delivering any one," said Athelstane; "it is well I am delivered myself.
Front-de-Boeuf was burnt alive for a less matter, for he kept a good table for his prisoners, only put too much garlic in his last dish of pottage.
Were they the best monks upon earth, the world would go on without them." "For shame, noble Athelstane," said Cedric; "forget such wretches in the career of glory which lies open before thee.
One half of those vain follies were puffed into mine ear by that perfidious Abbot Wolfram, and you may now judge if he is a counsellor to be trusted.
Since these plots were set in agitation, I have had nothing but hurried journeys, indigestions, blows and bruises, imprisonments and starvation; besides that they can only end in the murder of some thousands of quiet folk.
The Lady Rowena cares not for me-she loves the little finger of my kinsman Wilfred's glove better than my whole person.
I return in my grave-clothes, a pledge restored from the very sepulchre, and every one I speak to vanishes as soon as they hear my voice!-But it skills not talking of it.
It was a scene of bustle and life, as if the whole vicinity had poured forth its inhabitants to a village wake, or rural feast.
Beside this deadly apparatus stood four black slaves, whose colour and African features, then so little known in England, appalled the multitude, who gazed on them as on demons employed about their own diabolical exercises.
These men stirred not, excepting now and then, under the direction of one who seemed their chief, to shift and replace the ready fuel.
They looked not on the multitude.
The Minstrel seemed of no vulgar rank; for, besides the splendour of his gaily braidered doublet, he wore around his neck a silver chain, by which hung the "wrest", or key, with which he tuned his harp.
One by one the sullen sounds fell successively on the ear, leaving but sufficient space for each to die away in distant echo, ere the air was again filled by repetition of the iron knell.
Behind him came Brian de Bois-Guilbert, armed cap-a-pie in bright armour, but without his lance, shield, and sword, which were borne by his two esquires behind him.
His face, though partly hidden by a long plume which floated down from his barrel-cap, bore a strong and mingled expression of passion, in which pride seemed to contend with irresolution.
He looked ghastly pale, as if he had not slept for several nights, yet reined his pawing war-horse with the habitual ease and grace proper to the best lance of the Order of the Temple.
They were in their robes of peace, the white dress of the Order.
Behind them followed other Companions of the Temple, with a long train of esquires and pages clad in black, aspirants to the honour of being one day Knights of the Order.
After these neophytes came a guard of warders on foot, in the same sable livery, amidst whose partisans might be seen the pale form of the accused, moving with a slow but undismayed step towards the scene of her fate.
She was stript of all her ornaments, lest perchance there should be among them some of those amulets which Satan was supposed to bestow upon his victims, to deprive them of the power of confession even when under the torture.
The trumpets again sounded, and there was a dead pause of many minutes. "No champion appears for the appellant," said the Grand Master.
Go, herald, and ask her whether she expects any one to do battle for her in this her cause.
Hear me, Rebecca," he said, proceeding with animation; "a better chance hast thou for life and liberty than yonder knaves and dotard dream of.
Let them speak the doom which I despise, and erase the name of Bois-Guilbert from their list of monastic slaves!
At this instant a knight, urging his horse to speed, appeared on the plain advancing towards the lists.
A hundred voices exclaimed, "A champion! a champion!
And despite the prepossessions and prejudices of the multitude, they shouted unanimously as the knight rode into the tiltyard.
The second glance, however, served to destroy the hope that his timely arrival had excited.
The Temple sendeth not forth her champions against nameless men." "My name," said the Knight, raising his helmet, "is better known, my lineage more pure, Malvoisin, than thine own.
I am Wilfred of Ivanhoe." "I will not fight with thee at present," said the Templar, in a changed and hollow voice.
Yet I would thou wert in better plight to do battle.
Yet, no-no-thy wounds are uncured-Meet not that proud man-why shouldst thou perish also?" But Ivanhoe was already at his post, and had closed his visor, and assumed his lance.
The wearied horse of Ivanhoe, and its no less exhausted rider, went down, as all had expected, before the well-aimed lance and vigorous steed of the Templar.
We allow him vanquished." He descended into the lists, and commanded them to unhelm the conquered champion.
His eyes were closed-the dark red flush was still on his brow.
As they looked on him in astonishment, the eyes opened-but they were fixed and glazed.
The flush passed from his brow, and gave way to the pallid hue of death.
Manfully and rightfully hath it been done," said the Grand Master.
He was followed by a numerous band of men-at-arms, and several knights in complete armour. "I am too late," he said, looking around him.
I had doomed Bois-Guilbert for mine own property.-Ivanhoe, was this well, to take on thee such a venture, and thou scarce able to keep thy saddle?" "Heaven, my Liege," answered Ivanhoe, "hath taken this proud man for its victim.
They gathered around him like the sheep around the watch-dog, when they hear the baying of the wolf.
The Pope and Princes of Europe shall judge our quarrel, and whether a Christian prince has done well in bucklering the cause which thou hast to-day adopted.
If unassailed, we depart assailing no one.
Their trumpets sounded a wild march, of an Oriental character, which formed the usual signal for the Templars to advance.
Cedric tushed and pshawed more than once at the message-but he refused not obedience.
But it was not the less certain: Rowena had always expressed her repugnance to Athelstane, and now Athelstane was no less plain and positive in proclaiming his resolution never to pursue his addresses to the Lady Rowena.
Even the natural obstinacy of Cedric sunk beneath these obstacles, where he, remaining on the point of junction, had the task of dragging a reluctant pair up to it, one with each hand.
For this atrocity the Abbot menaced him with excommunication, and made out a dreadful list of complaints in the bowels and stomach, suffered by himself and his monks, in consequence of the tyrannical and unjust imprisonment they had sustained.
With this controversy, and with the means he had adopted to counteract this clerical persecution, Cedric found the mind of his friend Athelstane so fully occupied, that it had no room for another idea.
And when Rowena's name was mentioned the noble Athelstane prayed leave to quaff a full goblet to her health, and that she might soon be the bride of his kinsman Wilfred.
It was a desperate case therefore.
The former feeling gradually gave way before the endearments of his ward, and the pride which he could not help nourishing in the fame of his son.
Besides, he was not insensible to the honour of allying his own line to that of Alfred, when the superior claims of the descendant of Edward the Confessor were abandoned for ever.
Her demeanour was that of respect, unmingled by the least shade either of fear, or of a wish to propitiate favour.
Rowena was ever ready to acknowledge the claims, and attend to the feelings, of others.
She arose, and would have conducted her lovely visitor to a seat; but the stranger looked at Elgitha, and again intimated a wish to discourse with the Lady Rowena alone.
Such is no safe abode for the children of my people.
Ephraim is an heartless dove-Issachar an over-laboured drudge, which stoops between two burdens.
Our breeding, our faith, alike forbid either to pass over it.
Farewell-yet, ere I go indulge me one request.
There reigns in it gentleness and goodness; and if a tinge of the world's pride or vanities may mix with an expression so lovely, how should we chide that which is of earth for bearing some colour of its original?
Long, long will I remember your features, and bless God that I leave my noble deliverer united with-" She stopped short-her eyes filled with tears.
She hastily wiped them, and answered to the anxious enquiries of Rowena-"I am well, lady-well. But my heart swells when I think of Torquilstone and the lists of Templestowe.-Farewell.
One, the most trifling part of my duty, remains undischarged.
Accept this casket-startle not at its contents." Rowena opened the small silver-chased casket, and perceived a carcanet, or neck lace, with ear-jewels, of diamonds, which were obviously of immense value. "It is impossible," she said, tendering back the casket.
To you, therefore, the gift is of little value,-and to me, what I part with is of much less. Let me not think you deem so wretchedly ill of my nation as your commons believe.
Think ye that I prize these sparkling fragments of stone above my liberty? or that my father values them in comparison to the honour of his only child?
Accept them, lady-to me they are valueless.
I will never wear jewels more." "You are then unhappy!" said Rowena, struck with the manner in which Rebecca uttered the last words.
I may not change the faith of my fathers like a garment unsuited to the climate in which I seek to dwell, and unhappy, lady, I will not be.
Among these will Rebecca be numbered.
She hastened to bid Rowena adieu. "Farewell," she said.
May He, who made both Jew and Christian, shower down on you his choicest blessings!
The bark that waits us hence will be under weigh ere we can reach the port." She glided from the apartment, leaving Rowena surprised as if a vision had passed before her.
The fair Saxon related the singular conference to her husband, on whose mind it made a deep impression.
He lived long and happily with Rowena, for they were attached to each other by the bonds of early affection, and they loved each other the more, from the recollection of the obstacles which had impeded their union.
He might have risen still higher, but for the premature death of the heroic Coeur-de-Lion, before the Castle of Chaluz, near Limoges.
These oppressive enactments were the produce of the Norman Conquest, for the Saxon laws of the chase were mild and humane; while those of William, enthusiastically attached to the exercise and its rights, were to the last degree tyrannical.
Such lawing also shall be done by the assize commonly used, and which is, that three claws shall be cut off without the ball of the right foot.
I remember the same objection being made to a set of sable functionaries, whom my friend, Mat Lewis, introduced as the guards and mischief-doing satellites of the wicked Baron, in his Castle Spectre.
I am sure, if there are no precise proofs of their having done so, there is nothing, on the other hand, that can entitle us positively to conclude that they never did.
Besides, there is an instance in romance. John of Rampayne, an excellent juggler and minstrel, undertook to effect the escape of one Audulf de Bracy, by presenting himself in disguise at the court of the king, where he was confined.
For this purpose, "he stained his hair and his whole body entirely as black as jet, so that nothing was white but his teeth," and succeeded in imposing himself on the king, as an Ethiopian minstrel.
He effected, by stratagem, the escape of the prisoner.
Negroes, therefore, must have been known in England in the dark ages.
The poets of the former race were called "Minstrels", and their poems "Lays": those of the latter were termed "Troubadours", and their compositions called "sirventes", and other names.
Richard, a professed admirer of the joyous science in all its branches, could imitate either the minstrel or troubadour.
The Stamford, Strangford, or Staneford, at which the battle really was fought, is a ford upon the river Derwent, at the distance of about seven miles from York, and situated in that large and opulent county.
A long wooden bridge over the Derwent, the site of which, with one remaining buttress, is still shown to the curious traveller, was furiously contested.
Horseshoes, swords, and the heads of halberds, or bills, are often found there; one place is called the "Danes' well," another the "Battle flats.
For more particulars, Drake's History of York may be referred to.
The author's mistake was pointed out to him, in the most obliging manner, by Robert Belt, Esq. of Bossal House.
But, in fact, an instance of similar barbarity is to be found nearer home, and occurs in the annals of Queen Mary's time, containing so many other examples of atrocity.
He entitles his narrative, THE EARL OF CASSILIS' TYRANNY AGAINST A QUICK (i.e. LIVING) MAN. "Master Allan Stewart, friend to Captain James Stewart of Cardonall, by means of the Queen's corrupted court, obtained the Abbey of Crossraguel.
And so the said Mr Allan was carried to a secret chamber: with him passed the honourable Earl, his worshipful brother, and such as were appointed to be servants at that banquet.
In the chamber there was a grit iron chimlay, under it a fire; other grit provision was not seen.
The first course was,-'My Lord Abbot,' (said the Earl,) 'it will please you confess here, that with your own consent you remain in my company, because ye durst not commit yourself to the hands of others.
The Abbot answered, 'Would you, my lord, that I should make a manifest lie for your pleasure?
The truth is, my lord, it is against my will that I am here; neither yet have I any pleasure in your company.
But ye shall remain with me, nevertheless, at this time,' said the Earl.
I am not able to resist your will and pleasure,' said the Abbot, 'in this place.
And that the crying of the miserable man should not be heard, they dosed his mouth that the voice might be stopped.
It may be suspected that some partisan of the King's [Darnley's] murder was there.
In that torment they held the poor man, till that often he cried for God's sake to dispatch him; for he had as meikle gold in his awin purse as would buy powder enough to shorten his pain.
And yet he returned to the same practice within two days, and ceased not till that he obtained his formost purpose, that is, that he had got all his pieces subscryvit alsweill as ane half-roasted hand could do it.
The bruit flew fra Carrick to Galloway, and so suddenly assembled herd and hyre-man that pertained to the band of the Kennedies; and so within a few hours was the house of Denure environed again.
But no admonition would help, till that the wind of an hacquebute blasted his shoulder, and then ceased he from further pursuit in fury.
And so the house remained, and remains (till this day, the 7th of February, 1571,) in the custody of the said Laird of Bargany and of his servants.
Let Cassilis and his brother be the first to be the example unto others.
62 This extract has been somewhat amended or modernized in orthography, to render it more intelligible to the general reader.
It should be remembered, however, that heraldry had only its first rude origin during the crusades, and that all the minutiae of its fantastic science were the work of time, and introduced at a much later period.
The heralds have tried to explain this undeniable fact in different modes-but Ferne gallantly contends, that a prince of Godfrey's qualities should not be bound by the ordinary rules.
See Ferne's "Blazon of Gentrie" p. 238.
Nisbet's "Heraldry", vol. i. p.
In the very curious romance on the subject of his adventures in the Holy Land, and his return from thence, it is recorded how he exchanged a pugilistic favour of this nature, while a prisoner in Germany.
His opponent was the son of his principal warder, and was so imprudent as to give the challenge to this barter of buffets.
The King stood forth like a true man, and received a blow which staggered him.
A gang of beggars have their Patrico, and the banditti of the Apennines have among them persons acting as monks and priests, by whom they are confessed, and who perform mass before them.
I was, however, obliged by circumstances to proceed on my journey, without leisure to take more than a transient view of Coningsburgh.
Pennant has engraved a view of the famous Dun-Dornadilla in Glenelg; and there are many others, all of them built after a peculiar mode of architecture, which argues a people in the most primitive state of society.
It is formed of rough stones, selected with care, and laid in courses or circles, with much compactness, but without cement of any kind.
But, although the means or ingenuity of the builders did not extend so far as to provide a roof, they supplied the want by constructing apartments in the interior of the walls of the tower itself.
Each of these stories or galleries has four windows, facing directly to the points of the compass, and rising of course regularly above each other.
These four perpendicular ranges of windows admitted air, and, the fire being kindled, heat, or smoke at least, to each of the galleries.
The access from gallery to gallery is equally primitive.
In Zetland there are several scores of these Burghs, occupying in every case, capes, headlands, islets, and similar places of advantage singularly well chosen.
This causeway makes a sharp angle in its approach to the Burgh.
The builders had attained the art of using cement, and of roofing a building,-great improvements on the original Burgh.
Near the castle is a barrow, said to be Hengist's tomb.
On the top of the churchyard wall is a tombstone, on which are cut in high relief, two ravens, or such-like birds.
It was probably one of the rude crosses not uncommon in churchyards in this county.
See it engraved on the plate of crosses for this volume, plate 14. fig. 1.
The name of Coningsburgh, by which this castle goes in the old editions of the Britannia, would lead one to suppose it the residence of the Saxon kings.
It afterwards belonged to King Harold. The Conqueror bestowed it on William de Warren, with all its privileges and jurisdiction, which are said to have extended over twenty-eight towns.
The tower within forms a complete circle, twenty-one feet in diameter, the walls fourteen feet thick.
Within this door is the staircase which ascends straight through the thickness of the wall, not communicating with the room on the first floor, in whose centre is the opening to the dungeon.
In the third story, or guard-chamber, is a small recess with a loop-hole, probably a bedchamber, and in that floor above a niche for a saint or holy-water pot.
Mr. King imagines this a Saxon castle of the first ages of the Heptarchy.
Mr. Watson thus describes it.
From the first floor to the second story, (third from the ground,) is a way by a stair in the wall five feet wide.
It has an east window, and on each side in the wall, about four feet from the ground, a stone basin with a hole and iron pipe to convey the water into or through the wall.
This chapel is one of the buttresses, but no sign of it without, for even the window, though large within, is only a long narrow loop-hole, scarcely to be seen without.
On the left side of this chapel is a small oratory, eight by six in the thickness of the wall, with a niche in the wall, and enlightened by a like loop-hole.
The inside forms a circle, whose diameter may be about twelve feet.
The well at the bottom of the dungeon is piled with stones."-Gough's "Edition Of Camden's Britannia". Second Edition, vol. iii. p.
One can scarce conceive what humour our ancestors found in this species of gibberish; but "I warrant it proved an excuse for the glass."] 5 (return) [ The author had revised this posthumous work of Mr Strutt.
See General Preface to the present edition, Vol I. p.
65.] 6 (return) [ This anticipation proved but too true, as my learned correspondent did not receive my letter until a twelvemonth after it was written.
I understand, indeed, that this experiment was once tried, but that the mail-coach having broke down under the weight of packages addressed to members of the Society of Antiquaries, it was relinquished as a hazardous experiment.
T.] 7 (return) [ Mr Skene of Rubislaw is here intimated, to whose taste and skill the author is indebted for a series of etchings, exhibiting the various localities alluded to in these novels.] 8 (return) [ Note A.
The Ranger of the Forest, that cuts the fore-claws off our dogs.] 9 (return) [ Note B.
But the term cnicht, now spelt knight, having been received into the English language as equivalent to the Norman word chevalier, I have avoided using it in its more ancient sense, to prevent confusion.
T.] 14 (return) [ There was no language which the Normans more formally separated from that of common life than the terms of the chase.
The objects of their pursuit, whether bird or animal, changed their name each year, and there were a hundred conventional terms, to be ignorant of which was to be without one of the distinguishing marks of a gentleman.
The reader may consult Dame Juliana Berners' book on the subject.
The origin of this science was imputed to the celebrated Sir Tristrem, famous for his tragic intrigue with the beautiful Ysolte.
Even William the Conqueror, hated as he was by them, continued to draw a considerable army of Anglo-Saxons to his standard, by threatening to stigmatize those who staid at home, as nidering.
Bartholinus, I think, mentions a similar phrase which had like influence on the Danes.
T.] 26 (return) [ Note D.
Battle of Stamford.] 27 (return) [ "Nota Bene."-We by no means warrant the accuracy of this piece of natural history, which we give on the authority of the Wardour MS. L. T.] 28 (return) [ Note E.
The range of iron bars above that glowing charcoal] 29 (return) [ Henry's Hist. edit.
1805, vol. vii. p..146.] 30 (return) [ I wish the Prior had also informed them when Niobe was sainted. Probably during that enlightened period when "Pan to Moses lent his pagan horn.
T.] 31 (return) [ "Surquedy" and "outrecuidance"-insolence and presumption] 32 (return) [ Mantelets were temporary and movable defences formed of planks, under cover of which the assailants advanced to the attack of fortified places of old.
Pavisses were a species of large shields covering the whole person, employed on the same occasions.] 33 (return) [ The bolt was the arrow peculiarly fitted to the cross-bow, as that of the long-bow was called a shaft.
But the theft, if there be one, would be rather too severely punished by the penance of searching for the original passage through the interminable volumes of the Grand Cyrus.] 39 (return) [ Note G.
Hence our word to borrow, because we pledge ourselves to restore what is lent.] 45 (return) [ "Dortour", or dormitory.] 46 (return) [ Note I.
Castle of Coningsburgh.] 58 (return) [ The crowth, or crowd, was a species of violin.
The resemblance between such a Tulchan and a Bishop named to transmit the temporalities of a benefice to some powerful patron, is easily understood.] 62 (return) [ Bannatyne's Journal.]
[Illustration] From the Earth to the Moon by Jules Verne Contents: From the Earth to the Moon CHAPTER I.
The Gun Club CHAPTER II.
President Barbicane's Communication CHAPTER III.
Effect of the President's Communication CHAPTER IV.
Reply From the Observatory of Cambridge CHAPTER V.
The Romance of the Moon CHAPTER VI.
The Permissive Limits of Ignorance and Belief in the United States CHAPTER VII.
The Hymn of the Cannon-Ball CHAPTER VIII.
History of the Cannon CHAPTER IX.
The Question of the Powders CHAPTER X.
One Enemy _v._ Twenty-Five Millions of Friends CHAPTER XI.
Florida and Texas CHAPTER XII.
Urbi et Orbi CHAPTER XIII.
Pickaxe and Trowel CHAPTER XV.
The Fete of the Casting CHAPTER XVI.
A Telegraphic Dispatch CHAPTER XVIII.
The Passenger of the Atlanta CHAPTER XIX.
A Monster Meeting CHAPTER XX.
Attack and Riposte CHAPTER XXI.
How A Frenchman Manages An Affair CHAPTER XXII.
The New Citizen of the United States CHAPTER XXIII.
The Telescope of the Rocky Mountains CHAPTER XXV.
A New Star Contents: Round the Moon PRELIMINARY CHAPTER-Recapitulating the First Part of This Work, and Serving as a Preface to the Second CHAPTER I.
From Twenty Minutes Past Ten to Forty-Seven Minutes Past Ten P.
The First Half Hour CHAPTER III.
Their Place of Shelter CHAPTER IV.
A Little Algebra CHAPTER V.
The Cold of Space CHAPTER VI.
Question and Answer CHAPTER VII.
A Moment of Intoxication CHAPTER VIII.At Seventy-Eight Thousand Five Hundred and Fourteen Leagues CHAPTER IX.
The Consequences of A Deviation CHAPTER X.
The Observers of the Moon CHAPTER XI.
Fancy and Reality CHAPTER XII.
The Night of Three Hundred and Fifty-Four Hours and A Half CHAPTER XV.
Hyperbola or Parabola CHAPTER XVI.
The Southern Hemisphere CHAPTER XVII.
A Struggle Against the Impossible CHAPTER XX.
The Soundings of the Susquehanna CHAPTER XXI.
Recovered From the Sea CHAPTER XXIII.
The End FROM THE EARTH TO THE MOON CHAPTER I. THE GUN CLUB During the War of the Rebellion, a new and influential club was established in the city of Baltimore in the State of Maryland.
Not, indeed, that their weapons retained a higher degree of perfection than theirs, but that they exhibited unheard-of dimensions, and consequently attained hitherto unheard-of ranges.
The Yankees, the first mechanicians in the world, are engineers-just as the Italians are musicians and the Germans metaphysicians-by right of birth.
Nothing is more natural, therefore, than to perceive them applying their audacious ingenuity to the science of gunnery.
Witness the marvels of Parrott, Dahlgren, and Rodman.
The Armstrong, Palliser, and Beaulieu guns were compelled to bow before their transatlantic rivals. Now when an American has an idea, he directly seeks a second American to share it.
If there be three, they elect a president and two secretaries.
Given _four_, they name a keeper of records, and the office is ready for work; _five_, they convene a general meeting, and the club is fully constituted.
So things were managed in Baltimore.
The inventor of a new cannon associated himself with the caster and the borer.
Thus was formed the nucleus of the "Gun Club.
It may, however, be mentioned that mere inventors of revolvers, fire-shooting carbines, and similar small arms, met with little consideration.
Their military weapons attained colossal proportions, and their projectiles, exceeding the prescribed limits, unfortunately occasionally cut in two some unoffending pedestrians.
Many had found their rest on the field of battle whose names figured in the "Book of Honor" of the Gun Club; and of those who made good their return the greater proportion bore the marks of their indisputable valor.
They reverted invariably to gigantic shells and howitzers of unparalleled caliber.
Still in default of practical experience what was the value of mere theories?
It was delightful once upon a time!
One invented a gun, and hardly was it cast, when one hastened to try it in the face of the enemy!
Then one returned to camp with a word of encouragement from Sherman or a friendly shake of the hand from McClellan.
But now the generals are gone back to their counters; and in place of projectiles, they despatch bales of cotton.
By Jove, the future of gunnery in America is lost!" "Ay! and no war in prospect!" continued the famous James T.
Maston, scratching with his steel hook his gutta-percha cranium.
Not a cloud on the horizon! and that too at such a critical period in the progress of the science of artillery!
Maston, by which, at its first trial, he had succeeded in killing three hundred and thirty-seven people. "Fact!" replied he.
Still, what is the use of so many studies worked out, so many difficulties vanquished?
It's mere waste of time!
Matson; "but still we need not dream of that expedient." "And why not?" demanded the colonel. "Because their ideas of progress in the Old World are contrary to our American habits of thought.
Maston, "shall we not employ these remaining years of our life in perfecting firearms?
Shall there never be a fresh opportunity of trying the ranges of projectiles?
Shall the air never again be lighted with the glare of our guns?
No international difficulty ever arise to enable us to declare war against some transatlantic power?
Maston, with fresh violence; "there are a thousand grounds for fighting, and yet we don't fight.
We save up our arms and legs for the benefit of nations who don't know what to do with them!
But stop-without going out of one's way to find a cause for war-did not North America once belong to the English?" "Undoubtedly," replied Tom Hunter, stamping his crutch with fury. "Well, then," replied J.
Maston, "why should not England in her turn belong to the Americans?" "It would be but just and fair," returned Colonel Blomsberry. "Go and propose it to the President of the United States," cried J.
T. Maston, "and see how he will receive you." "Bah!" growled Bilsby between the four teeth which the war had left him; "that will never do!" "By Jove!" cried J.
Maston, "he mustn't count on my vote at the next election!" "Nor on ours," replied unanimously all the bellicose invalids. "Meanwhile," replied J.
Very cordially, IMPEY BARBICANE, P.G.C. CHAPTER II. PRESIDENT BARBICANE'S COMMUNICATION On the 5th of October, at eight p.m., a dense crowd pressed toward the saloons of the Gun Club at No. 21 Union Square.
All the members of the association resident in Baltimore attended the invitation of their president.
As regards the corresponding members, notices were delivered by hundreds throughout the streets of the city, and, large as was the great hall, it was quite inadequate to accommodate the crowd of _savants_.
They overflowed into the adjoining rooms, down the narrow passages, into the outer courtyards.
Its immense area was singularly adapted to the purpose.
Lofty pillars formed of cannon, superposed upon huge mortars as a base, supported the fine ironwork of the arches, a perfect piece of cast-iron lacework.
Trophies of blunderbuses, matchlocks, arquebuses, carbines, all kinds of firearms, ancient and modern, were picturesquely interlaced against the walls.
The gas lit up in full glare myriads of revolvers grouped in the form of lustres, while groups of pistols, and candelabra formed of muskets bound together, completed this magnificent display of brilliance.
His chair, supported by a carved gun-carriage, was modeled upon the ponderous proportions of a 32-inch mortar.
It was pointed at an angle of ninety degrees, and suspended upon truncheons, so that the president could balance himself upon it as upon a rocking-chair, a very agreeable fact in the very hot weather.
In a word, he was a Yankee to the backbone. Barbicane had made a large fortune as a timber merchant.
Being nominated director of artillery during the war, he proved himself fertile in invention.
A profound silence ensued, and the speaker, in a somewhat emphatic tone of voice, commenced as follows: "My brave, colleagues, too long already a paralyzing peace has plunged the members of the Gun Club in deplorable inactivity.
After a period of years full of incidents we have been compelled to abandon our labors, and to stop short on the road of progress.
I have been considering, working, calculating; and the result of my studies is the conviction that we are safe to succeed in an enterprise which to any other country would appear wholly impracticable.
This project, the result of long elaboration, is the object of my present communication.
Don't be surprised if I am about to discourse to you regarding the Queen of the Night.
It is perhaps reserved for us to become the Columbuses of this unknown world.
Selenographic charts have been constructed with a perfection which equals, if it does not even surpass, that of our terrestrial maps.
Photography has given us proofs of the incomparable beauty of our satellite; all is known regarding the moon which mathematical science, astronomy, geology, and optics can learn about her.
In the seventeenth century a certain David Fabricius boasted of having seen with his own eyes the inhabitants of the moon.
In 1649 a Frenchman, one Jean Baudoin, published a 'Journey performed from the Earth to the Moon by Domingo Gonzalez,' a Spanish adventurer.
At the same period Cyrano de Bergerac published that celebrated 'Journeys in the Moon' which met with such success in France.
Somewhat later another Frenchman, named Fontenelle, wrote 'The Plurality of Worlds,' a _chef-d'oeuvre_ of its time.
He then distinctly perceived caverns frequented by hippopotami, green mountains bordered by golden lace-work, sheep with horns of ivory, a white species of deer and inhabitants with membranous wings, like bats.
This _brochure_, the work of an American named Locke, had a great sale.
Nevertheless, I am bound to add that some practical geniuses have attempted to establish actual communication with her.
Every intelligent being,' said the geometrician, 'must understand the scientific meaning of that figure.
The Selenites, do they exist, will respond by a similar figure; and, a communication being thus once established, it will be easy to form an alphabet which shall enable us to converse with the inhabitants of the moon.
So spoke the German geometrician; but his project was never put into practice, and up to the present day there is no bond in existence between the Earth and her satellite.
It is reserved for the practical genius of Americans to establish a communication with the sidereal world.
The means of arriving thither are simple, easy, certain, infallible-and that is the purpose of my present proposal." A storm of acclamations greeted these words.
Moreover, you are well aware that, in general terms, the resisting power of cannon and the expansive force of gunpowder are practically unlimited.
In point of fact, a thunderstorm did peal forth, but it was the thunder of applause, or cries, and of uproar which made the very hall tremble.
The president attempted to speak, but could not.
It was fully ten minutes before he could make himself heard. "Suffer me to finish," he calmly continued.
It was a scene of indescribable confusion and uproar.
They shouted, they clapped, they stamped on the floor of the hall.
All the weapons in the museum discharged at once could not have more violently set in motion the waves of sound.
One need not be surprised at this.
No attention, however, was paid to his request.
He was presently torn from his seat and passed from the hands of his faithful colleagues into the arms of a no less excited crowd. Nothing can astound an American.
It has often been asserted that the word "impossible" is not a French one.
People have evidently been deceived by the dictionary.
In America, all is easy, all is simple; and as for mechanical difficulties, they are overcome before they arise. Between Barbicane's proposition and its realization no true Yankee would have allowed even the semblance of a difficulty to be possible.
A thing with them is no sooner said than done. The triumphal progress of the president continued throughout the evening.
It was a regular torchlight procession.
The Yankees all turned their gaze toward her resplendent orb, kissed their hands, called her by all kinds of endearing names.
Between eight o'clock and midnight one optician in Jones'-Fall Street made his fortune by the sale of opera-glasses. Midnight arrived, and the enthusiasm showed no signs of diminution.
It spread equally among all classes of citizens-men of science, shopkeepers, merchants, porters, chair-men, as well as "greenhorns," were stirred in their innermost fibres.
A national enterprise was at stake.
The whole city, high and low, the quays bordering the Patapsco, the ships lying in the basins, disgorged a crowd drunk with joy, gin, and whisky.
President Barbicane reached his house, bruised, crushed, and squeezed almost to a mummy.
Hercules could not have resisted a similar outbreak of enthusiasm.
The crowd gradually deserted the squares and streets.
They examined it under all its different aspects, physical, meteorological, economical, or moral, up to its bearings on politics or civilization.
They debated whether the moon was a finished world, or whether it was destined to undergo any further transformation.
Did it resemble the earth at the period when the latter was destitute as yet of an atmosphere?
What kind of spectacle would its hidden hemisphere present to our terrestrial spheroid?
Granting that the question at present was simply that of sending a projectile up to the moon, every one must see that that involved the commencement of a series of experiments.
But the populace, seeing in that title an allusion damaging to Barbicane's project, broke into the auditorium, smashed the benches, and compelled the unlucky director to alter his playbill.
His first care was to reassemble his colleagues in the board-room of the Gun Club.
There, after some discussion, it was agreed to consult the astronomers regarding the astronomical part of the enterprise.
This celebrated institution fully justified on all points the confidence reposed in it by the Gun Club.
Is it possible to transmit a projectile up to the moon? "2.
What is the exact distance which separates the earth from its satellite? "3.
What will be the period of transit of the projectile when endowed with sufficient initial velocity? and, consequently, at what moment ought it to be discharged in order that it may touch the moon at a particular point? "4.
At what precise moment will the moon present herself in the most favorable position to be reached by the projectile? "5.
What point in the heavens ought the cannon to be aimed at which is intended to discharge the projectile? "6.
At that instant the projectile will have no weight whatever; and, if it passes that point, it will fall into the moon by the sole effect of the lunar attraction.
Now the difference between its greatest and its least distance is too considerable to be left out of consideration.
In point of fact, in its apogee the moon is 247,552 miles, and in its perigee, 218,657 miles only distant; a fact which makes a difference of 28,895 miles, or more than one-ninth of the entire distance.
20m. in reaching the point where the attraction of the earth and moon will be _in equilibrio_.
From this point it will fall into the moon in 50,000 seconds, or 13hrs.
It will be desirable, therefore, to discharge it 97hrs.
But although the moon passes her perigee every month, she does not reach the zenith always _at exactly the same moment_.
She does not appear under these two conditions simultaneously, except at long intervals of time.
It will be necessary, therefore, to wait for the moment when her passage in perigee shall coincide with that in the zenith.
Now, by a fortunate circumstance, on the 4th of December in the ensuing year the moon _will_ present these two conditions.
Its fire, therefore, will be perpendicular to the plane of the horizon; and the projectile will soonest pass beyond the range of the terrestrial attraction.
It ought to be pointed directly toward the zenith of the place. 3rd.
The projectile ought to be propelled with an initial velocity of 12,000 yards per second. 4th.
It ought to be discharged at 10hrs.
40sec. of the 1st of December of the ensuing year. 5th.
For the Astronomical Staff, J.
These masses became immediately endued with a rotary motion around their own central point.
In fact, he would have perceived this sun, as yet in the gaseous state, and composed of moving molecules, revolving round its axis in order to accomplish its work of concentration.
In their turn, again, these rings of cosmical matter, excited by a rotary motion about the central mass, would have been broken up and decomposed into secondary nebulosities, that is to say, into planets.
Uranus has eight, Saturn eight, Jupiter four, Neptune possibly three, and the Earth one.
Galileo explained the phenomena of the lunar light produced during certain of her phases by the existence of mountains, to which he assigned a mean altitude of 27,000 feet.
He assigned a height of 11,400 feet to the maximum elevations, and reduced the mean of the different altitudes to little more than 2,400 feet.
But Herschel's calculations were in their turn corrected by the observations of Halley, Nasmyth, Bianchini, Gruithuysen, and others; but it was reserved for the labors of Boeer and Maedler finally to solve the question.
They succeeded in measuring 1,905 different elevations, of which six exceed 15,000 feet, and twenty-two exceed 14,400 feet.
The highest summit of all towers to a height of 22,606 feet above the surface of the lunar disc.
At the same period the examination of the moon was completed.
She appeared completely riddled with craters, and her essentially volcanic character was apparent at each observation.
By the absence of refraction in the rays of the planets occulted by her we conclude that she is absolutely devoid of an atmosphere.
The absence of air entails the absence of water.
It was known that it is 300,000 times weaker than that of the sun, and that its heat has no appreciable effect upon the thermometer.
Everybody set to work to study assiduously.
One would have thought that the moon had just appeared for the first time, and that no one had ever before caught a glimpse of her in the heavens.
They took advantage of this fact to explain to them that this distance was obtained by measuring the parallax of the moon.
The term parallax proving "caviare to the general," they further explained that it meant the angle formed by the inclination of two straight lines drawn from either extremity of the earth's radius to the moon.
But, happily for her, the face turned toward the terrestrial globe is illuminated by it with an intensity equal to that of fourteen moons.
Well, then, the room is the heavens, the table is the earth, and the moon is yourself.
Every one knew that this altitude varies according to the latitude of the observer.
But the only zones of the globe in which the moon passes the zenith, that is, the point directly over the head of the spectator, are of necessity comprised between the twenty-eighth parallels and the equator.
Hence the importance of the advice to try the experiment upon some point of that part of the globe, in order that the projectile might be discharged perpendicularly, and so the soonest escape the action of gravitation.
They had heard it said that, according to observations made in the time of the Caliphs, her revolution had become accelerated in a certain degree.
So, then, the stability of the solar system would not be deranged in ages to come. There remains but the third class, the superstitious.
These worthies were not content merely to rest in ignorance; they must know all about things which had no existence whatever, and as to the moon, they had long known all about her.
One set regarded her disc as a polished mirror, by means of which people could see each other from different points of the earth and interchange their thoughts.
The mechanical part still remained. President Barbicane had, without loss of time, nominated a working committee of the Gun Club.
The duty of this committee was to resolve the three grand questions of the cannon, the projectile, and the powder.
It was composed of four members of great technical knowledge, Barbicane (with a casting vote in case of equality), General Morgan, Major Elphinstone, and J.
Maston, to whom were confided the functions of secretary.
On the 8th of October the committee met at the house of President Barbicane, 3 Republican Street.
The meeting was opened by the president himself. "Gentlemen," said he, "we have to resolve one of the most important problems in the whole of the noble science of gunnery.
It might appear, perhaps, the most logical course to devote our first meeting to the discussion of the engine to be employed.
Permission having been granted, "Gentlemen," said he with an inspired accent, "our president is right in placing the question of the projectile above all others.
The ball we are about to discharge at the moon is our ambassador to her, and I wish to consider it from a moral point of view.
The cannon-ball, gentlemen, to my mind, is the most magnificent manifestation of human power.
If Providence has created the stars and the planets, man has called the cannon-ball into existence.
How glorious will be the moment when, infinitely exceeding all hitherto attained velocities, we shall launch our new projectile with the rapidity of seven miles a second!
Let us at present examine the velocities hitherto attained.
General Morgan will be able to enlighten us on this point." "And the more easily," replied the general, "that during the war I was a member of the committee of experiments.
I may say, then, that the 100-pounder Dahlgrens, which carried a distance of 5,000 yards, impressed upon their projectile an initial velocity of 500 yards a second.
Maston, "if my mortar had not burst-" "Yes," quietly replied Barbicane, "but it did burst.
We must take, then, for our starting point, this velocity of 800 yards.
We must increase it twenty-fold.
Now, reserving for another discussion the means of producing this velocity, I will call your attention to the dimensions which it will be proper to assign to the shot.
You understand that we have nothing to do here with projectiles weighing at most but half a ton." "Why not?" demanded the major. "Because the shot," quickly replied J.
Be so good as to listen.
You know that optical instruments have acquired great perfection; with certain instruments we have succeeded in obtaining enlargements of 6,000 times and reducing the moon to within forty miles' distance.
Would you give your projectile a diameter of sixty feet?" "Not so." "Do you intend, then, to increase the luminous power of the moon?" "Exactly so.
If I can succeed in diminishing the density of the atmosphere through which the moon's light has to travel I shall have rendered her light more intense.
To effect that object it will be enough to establish a telescope on some elevated mountain.
That is what we will do." "I give it up," answered the major.
You have such a way of simplifying things.
I don't mean to pretend that the science of gunnery has not advanced, but it is as well to bear in mind that during the middle ages they obtained results more surprising, I will venture to say, than ours.
And, now, what is the extent of what we have seen ourselves?
Armstrong guns discharging shot of 500 pounds, and the Rodman guns projectiles of half a ton!
It seems, then, that if projectiles have gained in range, they have lost far more in weight.
A solid shot of 108 inches would weigh more than 200,000 pounds, a weight evidently far too great.
I have better than that to offer." "What then?" asked the major. "Aluminum!" replied Barbicane. "Aluminum?" cried his three colleagues in chorus. "Unquestionably, my friends.
This valuable metal possesses the whiteness of silver, the indestructibility of gold, the tenacity of iron, the fusibility of copper, the lightness of glass.
I know it quite well.
But fear not, my friends; the money will not be wanting for our enterprise.
I will answer for it.
Now what say you to aluminum, gentlemen?" "Adopted!" replied the three members of the committee.
So ended the first meeting.
The question of the projectile was definitely settled. CHAPTER VIII. HISTORY OF THE CANNON The resolutions passed at the last meeting produced a great effect out of doors.
The following evening the discussion was renewed. "My dear colleagues," said Barbicane, without further preamble, "the subject now before us is the construction of the engine, its length, its composition, and its weight.
It is probable that we shall end by giving it gigantic dimensions; but however great may be the difficulties in the way, our mechanical genius will readily surmount them.
Be good enough, then, to give me your attention, and do not hesitate to make objections at the close.
I have no fear of them.
The problem before us is how to communicate an initial force of 12,000 yards per second to a shell of 108 inches in diameter, weighing 20,000 pounds.
Now when a projectile is launched into space, what happens to it?
It is acted upon by three independent forces: the resistance of the air, the attraction of the earth, and the force of impulsion with which it is endowed.
Let us examine these three forces.
The resistance of the air is of little importance.
The atmosphere of the earth does not exceed forty miles.
Now, with the given rapidity, the projectile will have traversed this in five seconds, and the period is too brief for the resistance of the medium to be regarded otherwise than as insignificant.
Proceding, then, to the attraction of the earth, that is, the weight of the shell, we know that this weight will diminish in the inverse ratio of the square of the distance.
That is almost equivalent to a state of perfect rest.
Our business, then, is to overcome progressively this action of gravitation.
Our business, then, to-day is with the dimensions of the cannon." "Now, up to the present time," said Barbicane, "our longest guns have not exceeded twenty-five feet in length.
We shall therefore astonish the world by the dimensions we shall be obliged to adopt.
No, I think of sinking this engine in the earth alone, binding it with hoops of wrought iron, and finally surrounding it with a thick mass of masonry of stone and cement.
The piece once cast, it must be bored with great precision, so as to preclude any possible windage.
I think, then, that we ought to adopt a material excellent in its way and of low price, such as cast iron.
I will now ask our worthy secretary to calculate the weight of a cast-iron gun with a bore of nine feet and a thickness of six feet of metal." "In a moment," replied Maston.
Then, dashing off some algebraical formulae with marvelous facility, in a minute or two he declared the following result: "The cannon will weigh 68,040 tons.
The public awaited with interest its final decision.
It is, however, pretty well proved that this story ought to be ranked among the legends of the middle ages.
Gunpowder was not invented by any one; it was the lineal successor of the Greek fire, which, like itself, was composed of sulfur and saltpeter.
Few persons are acquainted with the mechanical power of gunpowder.
Now this is precisely what is necessary to be understood in order to comprehend the importance of the question submitted to the committee. A litre of gunpowder weighs about two pounds; during combustion it produces 400 litres of gas.
This gas, on being liberated and acted upon by temperature raised to 2,400 degrees, occupies a space of 4,000 litres: consequently the volume of powder is to the volume of gas produced by its combustion as 1 to 4,000.
One may judge, therefore, of the tremendous pressure on this gas when compressed within a space 4,000 times too confined.
The old 24-pounder shot required for its discharge sixteen pounds of powder." "You are certain of this amount?" broke in Barbicane. "Quite certain," replied the major.
The Armstrong cannon employs only seventy-five pounds of powder for a projectile of eight hundred pounds, and the Rodman Columbiad uses only one hundred and sixty pounds of powder to send its half ton shot a distance of six miles.
I return then to my large-grained powder, which removes those difficulties.
In his Columbiad charges Rodman employed a powder as large as chestnuts, made of willow charcoal, simply dried in cast- iron pans.
You know that curious cellular matter which constitutes the elementary tissues of vegetable?
This substance is found quite pure in many bodies, especially in cotton, which is nothing more than the down of the seeds of the cotton plant.
Now cotton, combined with cold nitric acid, become transformed into a substance eminently insoluble, combustible, and explosive.
It was first discovered in 1832, by Braconnot, a French chemist, who called it xyloidine.
In 1838 another Frenchman, Pelouze, investigated its different properties, and finally, in 1846, Schonbein, professor of chemistry at Bale, proposed its employment for purposes of war.
Maston. "Finally, it imparts to projectiles a velocity four times superior to that of gunpowder.
I will even add, that if we mix it with one-eighth of its own weight of nitrate of potassium, its expansive force is again considerably augmented." "Will that be necessary?" asked the major. "I think not," replied Barbicane.
In this way the shot will have more than 700 feet of bore to traverse under a force of 6,000,000,000 litres of gas before taking its flight toward the moon." At this juncture J.
Their plan was drawn up, and it only remained to put it into execution. "A mere matter of detail, a bagatelle," said J.
Maston. CHAPTER X. ONE ENEMY _v._ TWENTY-FIVE MILLIONS OF FRIENDS The American public took a lively interest in the smallest details of the enterprise of the Gun Club.
It followed day by day the discussion of the committee.
There was, however, one single individual alone in all the States of the Union who protested against the attempt of the Gun Club.
He attacked it furiously on every opportunity, and human nature is such that Barbicane felt more keenly the opposition of that one man than he did the applause of all the others.
This rival was a man of science, like Barbicane himself, of a fiery, daring, and violent disposition; a pure Yankee.
His name was Captain Nicholl; he lived at Philadelphia. Most people are aware of the curious struggle which arose during the Federal war between the guns and armor of iron-plated ships.
The result was the entire reconstruction of the navy of both the continents; as the one grew heavier, the other became thicker in proportion.
The Merrimac, the Monitor, the Tennessee, the Weehawken discharged enormous projectiles themselves, after having been armor-clad against the projectiles of others.
As soon as ever Barbicane invented a new shot, Nicholl invented a new plate; each followed a current of ideas essentially opposed to the other.
It was a masterpiece of its kind, and bid defiance to all the projectiles of the world.
The captain had it conveyed to the Polygon at Washington, challenging the president of the Gun Club to break it.
Barbicane, peace having been declared, declined to try the experiment. Nicholl, now furious, offered to expose his plate to the shock of any shot, solid, hollow, round, or conical.
Refused by the president, who did not choose to compromise his last success. Nicholl, disgusted by this obstinacy, tried to tempt Barbicane by offering him every chance.
He proposed to fix the plate within two hundred yards of the gun.
Barbicane still obstinate in refusal.
Not even seventy-five! "At fifty then!" roared the captain through the newspapers.
How was he to invent anything to beat this 900-feet Columbiad?
What armor-plate could ever resist a projectile of 30,000 pounds weight?
Nobody listened to him, and he did not succeed in alienating a single admirer from the president of the Gun Club.
The latter did not even take the pains to refute the arguments of his rival. Nicholl, driven into his last entrenchments, and not able to fight personally in the cause, resolved to fight with money.
According to the advice of the Observatory of Cambridge, the gun must be fired perpendicularly to the plane of the horizon, that is to say, toward the zenith.
Gentlemen," said he, in opening the discussion, "I presume that we are all agreed that this experiment cannot and ought not to be tried anywhere but within the limits of the soil of the Union.
Now, by good fortune, certain frontiers of the United States extend downward as far as the 28th parallel of the north latitude.
One solitary town, Tampa Town, was able to put in a claim in favor of its situation. In Texas, on the contrary, the towns are much more numerous and important.
So, scarcely was the decision known, when the Texan and Floridan deputies arrived at Baltimore in an incredibly short space of time.
From that very moment President Barbicane and the influential members of the Gun Club were besieged day and night by formidable claims.
Happily the prudence and address of President Barbicane averted the danger.
These personal demonstrations found a division in the newspapers of the different States.
The New York _Herald_ and the _Tribune_ supported Texas, while the _Times_ and the _American Review_ espoused the cause of the Floridan deputies.
Was not Louisiana bought from Napoleon in 1803 at the price of sixteen million dollars?" "Scandalous!" roared the Texas deputies.
From this moment the state of things became intolerable.
A sanguinary encounter seemed daily imminent between the two parties in the streets of Baltimore.
It became necessary to keep an eye upon the deputies. President Barbicane knew not which way to look.
Notes, documents, letters full of menaces showered down upon his house.
Which side ought he to take?
As regarded the appropriation of the soil, the facility of communication, the rapidity of transport, the claims of both States were evenly balanced.
As for political prepossessions, they had nothing to do with the question. This dead block had existed for some little time, when Barbicane resolved to get rid of it all at once.
The rivalry will descend from State to city, and so on downward.
Now Texas possesses eleven towns within the prescribed conditions, which will further dispute the honor and create us new enemies, while Florida has only one.
I go in, therefore, for Florida and Tampa Town." This decision, on being made known, utterly crushed the Texan deputies. Seized with an indescribable fury, they addressed threatening letters to the different members of the Gun Club by name.
The magistrates had but one course to take, and they took it.
It was, he maintained, the right and duty of the whole earth to interfere in the affairs of its satellite.
The subscription opened at Baltimore extended properly to the whole world-_Urbi et orbi_. This subscription was successful beyond all expectation; notwithstanding that it was a question not of lending but of giving the money.
Some, such as those of Paris, Petersburg, Berlin, Stockholm, Hamburg, Malta, Lisbon, Benares, Madras, and others, transmitted their good wishes; the rest maintained a prudent silence, quietly awaiting the result.
As for the observatory at Greenwich, seconded as it was by the twenty- two astronomical establishments of Great Britain, it spoke plainly enough.
It boldly denied the possibility of success, and pronounced in favor of the theories of Captain Nicholl.
But this was nothing more than mere English jealousy. On the 8th of October President Barbicane published a manifesto full of enthusiasm, in which he made an appeal to "all persons of good will upon the face of the earth.
M. de Rothschild. At Petersburg, Stieglitz and Co. At Paris, The Credit Mobilier. At Stockholm, Tottie and Arfuredson. At London, N.
Rothschild and Son. At Turin, Ardouin and Co. At Berlin, Mendelssohn. At Geneva, Lombard, Odier and Co. At Constantinople, The Ottoman Bank. At Brussels, J.
With such a balance the Gun Club might begin operations at once.
But some days later advices were received to the effect that foreign subscriptions were being eagerly taken up.
Certain countries distinguished themselves by their liberality; others untied their purse-strings with less facility-a matter of temperament.
The moon served as a pretext for a thousand stale puns and a score of ballads, in which bad taste contested the palm with ignorance.
But as formerly the French paid before singing, so now they paid after having had their laugh, and they subscribed for a sum of 1,253,930 francs.
The moon, in fact, regulates the cycle of her years and her fast of Ramadan.
It was impossible to ask for more; besides, they would not have given it. Though very much crippled, Italy found 200,000 lire in the pockets of her people.
It was the widow's mite-eighty-six piastres; but self-constituted empires are always rather short of money. Two hundred and fifty-seven francs, this was the modest contribution of Switzerland to the American work.
One must freely admit that she did not see the practical side of the matter.
After all, perhaps she was right. As to Spain, she could not scrape together more than 110 reals.
She gave as an excuse that she had her railways to finish.
They feared that it would disturb the established order of things.
In that case it were better to keep aloof; which they did to the tune of some reals. There remained but England; and we know the contemptuous antipathy with which she received Barbicane's proposition.
The English have but one soul for the whole twenty-six millions of inhabitants which Great Britain contains.
They hinted that the enterprise of the Gun Club was contrary to the "principle of non-intervention.
And they did not subscribe a single farthing. At this intimation the Gun Club merely shrugged its shoulders and returned to its great work.
It was stipulated between the contracting parties that the manufactory of Coldspring should engage to transport to Tampa Town, in southern Florida, the necessary materials for casting the Columbiad.
Never before had there been such a sale for works like "Bertram's Travels in Florida," "Roman's Natural History of East and West Florida," "William's Territory of Florida," and "Cleland on the Cultivation of the Sugar-Cane in Florida.
It became necessary to issue fresh editions of these works. Barbicane had something better to do than to read.
He desired to see things with his own eyes, and to mark the exact position of the proposed gun.
He then quitted Baltimore, accompanied by J.
Two days after starting, the _Tampico_, having made four hundred and eighty miles, came in sight of the coast of Florida.
On a nearer approach Barbicane found himself in view of a low, flat country of somewhat barren aspect.
Barbicane descended with his three fellow- travelers; and much astonished were they all to find themselves in the midst of such a cavalcade.
We thought it best, therefore, to escort you on your road." "Pooh!" cried J.
This little river falls into Hillisborough Bay twelve miles above Tampa Town.
Barbicane and his escort coasted along its right bank to the eastward.
Soon the waves of the bay disappeared behind a bend of rising ground, and the Floridan "champagne" alone offered itself to view. Florida, discovered on Palm Sunday, in 1512, by Juan Ponce de Leon, was originally named _Pascha Florida_.
It little deserved that designation, with its dry and parched coasts.
But after some few miles of tract the nature of the soil gradually changes and the country shows itself worthy of the name.
No struggles with the water-springs, which will save us long expensive tubings; and we shall be working in daylight instead of down a deep and narrow well.
Maston. About ten A.M. the little band had crossed a dozen miles.
To fertile plains succeeded a region of forests.
There perfumes of the most varied kinds mingled together in tropical profusion.
These almost impenetrable forests were composed of pomegranates, orange-trees, citrons, figs, olives, apricots, bananas, huge vines, whose blossoms and fruits rivaled each other in color and perfume.
Beneath the odorous shade of these magnificent trees fluttered and warbled a little world of brilliantly plumaged birds. J.
Maston and the major could not repress their admiration on finding themselves in the presence of the glorious beauties of this wealth of nature.
President Barbicane, however, less sensitive to these wonders, was in haste to press forward; the very luxuriance of the country was displeasing to him.
These hostile demonstrations, however, had no effect upon Barbicane and his companions. They were then occupying the center of a rocky plain, which the sun scorched with its parching rays.
This was formed by a considerable elevation of the soil, which seemed to offer to the members of the Gun Club all the conditions requisite for the construction of their Columbiad. "Halt!" said Barbicane, reining up.
Has this place any local appellation?" "It is called Stones Hill," replied one of the Floridans. Barbicane, without saying a word, dismounted, seized his instruments, and began to note his position with extreme exactness.
The little band, drawn up in the rear, watched his proceedings in profound silence. At this moment the sun passed the meridian.
It appears to me by its rocky and barren character to offer all the conditions requisite for our experiment.
His object was to enlist an army of workmen, and to collect together the greater part of the materials.
Murchison had succeeded in assembling together fifteen hundred artisans.
Attracted by the high pay and considerable bounties offered by the Gun Club, he had enlisted a choice legion of stokers, iron-founders, lime-burners, miners, brickmakers, and artisans of every trade, without distinction of color.
At the same period Barbicane laid the first sleepers of a railway fifteen miles in length, intended to unite Stones Hill with Tampa Town.
On the first of November Barbicane quitted Tampa Town with a detachment of workmen; and on the following day the whole town of huts was erected round Stones Hill.
This they enclosed with palisades; and in respect of energy and activity, it might have been mistaken for one of the great cities of the Union.
Our business is to construct a cannon measuring nine feet in its interior diameter, six feet thick, and with a stone revetment of nineteen and a half feet in thickness.
We have, therefore, a well of sixty feet in diameter to dig down to a depth of nine hundred feet.
This great work must be completed within eight months, so that you have 2,543,400 cubic feet of earth to excavate in 255 days; that is to say, in round numbers, 2,000 cubic feet per day.
That which would present no difficulty to a thousand navvies working in open country will be of course more troublesome in a comparatively confined space.
Then the iron of the picks struck upon the hard bed of the soil; a kind of rock formed of petrified shells, very dry, very solid, and which the picks could with difficulty penetrate.
The center of this wooden disc was hollowed out to a diameter equal to the exterior diameter of the Columbiad.
Upon this wheel rested the first layers of the masonry, the stones of which were bound together by hydraulic cement, with irresistible tenacity.
The workmen, after laying the stones from the circumference to the center, were thus enclosed within a kind of well twenty-one feet in diameter.
When this work was accomplished, the miners resumed their picks and cut away the rock from underneath the wheel itself, taking care to support it as they advanced upon blocks of great thickness.
At every two feet which the hole gained in depth they successively withdrew the blocks.
More than one, in digging underneath the wheel, was dangerously injured by the splinters of stone.
But their ardor never relaxed, night or day.
By day they worked under the rays of the scorching sun; by night, under the gleam of the electric light.
Of unexpected obstacles there was little account; and with regard to foreseen difficulties, they were speedily disposed of. At the expiration of the first month the well had attained the depth assigned for that lapse of time, namely, 112 feet.
This depth was doubled in December, and trebled in January. During the month of February the workmen had to contend with a sheet of water which made its way right across the outer soil.
It became necessary to employ very powerful pumps and compressed-air engines to drain it off, so as to close up the orifice from whence it issued; just as one stops a leak on board ship.
They at last succeeded in getting the upper hand of these untoward streams; only, in consequence of the loosening of the soil, the wheel partly gave way, and a slight partial settlement ensued.
They have in fact more regard for human nature in general than for the individual in particular. Nevertheless, Barbicane professed opposite principles to these, and put them in force at every opportunity.
So long before being forwarded to Tampa Town, the iron ore, molten in the great furnaces of Coldspring, and brought into contact with coal and silicium heated to a high temperature, was carburized and transformed into cast iron.
After this first operation, the metal was sent on to Stones Hill. They had, however, to deal with 136,000,000 pounds of iron, a quantity far too costly to send by railway.
The cost of transport would have been double that of material.
It appeared preferable to freight vessels at New York, and to load them with the iron in bars.
Each of these furnaces contained nearly 140,000 pounds weight of metal.
They were all built after the model of those which served for the casting of the Rodman gun; they were trapezoidal in shape, with a high elliptical arch.
These furnaces, constructed of fireproof brick, were especially adapted for burning pit coal, with a flat bottom upon which the iron bars were laid.
This cylinder was composed of a mixture of clay and sand, with the addition of a little hay and straw.
The space left between the mould and the masonry was intended to be filled up by the molten metal, which would thus form the walls six feet in thickness.
T. Maston to his friend Barbicane. "Undoubtedly," said Barbicane; "but it will not be a public _fete_" "What! will you not open the gates of the enclosure to all comers?" "I must be very careful, Maston.
The casting of the Columbiad is an extremely delicate, not to say a dangerous operation, and I should prefer its being done privately.
At the discharge of the projectile, a _fete_ if you like-till then, no!" The president was right.
The operation involved unforeseen dangers, which a great influx of spectators would have hindered him from averting.
It was necessary to preserve complete freedom of movement.
No one was admitted within the enclosure except a delegation of members of the Gun Club, who had made the voyage to Tampa Town.
Among these was the brisk Bilsby, Tom Hunter, Colonel Blomsberry, Major Elphinstone, General Morgan, and the rest of the lot to whom the casting of the Columbiad was a matter of personal interest.
The previous evening each furnace had been charged with 114,000 pounds weight of metal in bars disposed cross-ways to each other, so as to allow the hot air to circulate freely between them.
At daybreak the 1,200 chimneys vomited their torrents of flame into the air, and the ground was agitated with dull tremblings.
As many pounds of metal as there were to cast, so many pounds of coal were there to burn.
Thus there were 68,000 tons of coal which projected in the face of the sun a thick curtain of smoke.
The heat soon became insupportable within the circle of furnaces, the rumbling of which resembled the rolling of thunder.
The powerful ventilators added their continuous blasts and saturated with oxygen the glowing plates.
The operation, to be successful, required to be conducted with great rapidity.
On a signal given by a cannon-shot each furnace was to give vent to the molten iron and completely to empty itself.
These arrangements made, foremen and workmen waited the preconcerted moment with an impatience mingled with a certain amount of emotion.
Not a soul remained within the enclosure.
Each superintendent took his post by the aperture of the run. Barbicane and his colleagues, perched on a neighboring eminence, assisted at the operation.
In front of them was a piece of artillery ready to give fire on the signal from the engineer.
A gunshot suddenly pealed forth and shot its flame into the air.
Twelve hundred melting-troughs were simultaneously opened and twelve hundred fiery serpents crept toward the central well, unrolling their incandescent curves.
There, down they plunged with a terrific noise into a depth of 900 feet.
It was an exciting and a magnificent spectacle.
The ground trembled, while these molten waves, launching into the sky their wreaths of smoke, evaporated the moisture of the mould and hurled it upward through the vent-holes of the stone lining in the form of dense vapor-clouds.
These artificial clouds unrolled their thick spirals to a height of 1,000 yards into the air.
They were reduced to mere conjecture.
But they could do nothing.
Maston escaped roasting by a miracle.
Fifteen days after the casting an immense column of smoke was still rising in the open sky and the ground burned the soles of the feet within a radius of two hundred feet round the summit of Stones Hill.
It was impossible to approach nearer.
All they could do was to wait with what patience they might. "Here we are at the 10th of August," exclaimed J.
Maston one morning, "only four months to the 1st of December!
We shall never be ready in time!
Barbicane said nothing, but his silence covered serious irritation. However, daily observations revealed a certain change going on in the state of the ground.
About the 15th of August the vapors ejected had sensibly diminished in intensity and thickness.
Some days afterward the earth exhaled only a slight puff of smoke, the last breath of the monster enclosed within its circle of stone.
They proceeded at once to extract the interior mould, for the purpose of clearing out the boring of the piece.
There was only the moon now to wait for; and they were pretty sure that she would not fail in the rendezvous. The ecstasy of J.
Maston knew no bounds, and he narrowly escaped a frightful fall while staring down the tube.
So, on the 6th of October, Captain Nicholl opened an account between himself and President Barbicane, in which he debited himself to the latter in the sum of two thousand dollars.
Europe was emigrating to America. Up to that time, however, it must be confessed, the curiosity of the numerous comers was but scantily gratified.
Most had counted upon witnessing the spectacle of the casting, and they were treated to nothing but smoke.
This was sorry food for hungry eyes; but Barbicane would admit no one to that operation.
Then ensued grumbling, discontent, murmurs; they blamed the president, taxed him with dictatorial conduct.
His proceedings were declared "un-American.
There was very nearly a riot round Stones Hill; but Barbicane remained inflexible.
When, however, the Columbiad was entirely finished, this state of closed doors could no longer be maintained; besides it would have been bad taste, and even imprudence, to affront the public feeling.
Consequently, there was not one curious spectator who was not willing to give himself the treat of visiting the interior of this great metallic abyss.
Baskets suspended from steam-cranes permitted them to satisfy their curiosity.
There was a perfect mania.
Women, children, old men, all made it a point of duty to penetrate the mysteries of the colossal gun.
This privilege was justly reserved for that illustrious body.
The ceremony took place on the 25th of September.
A basket of honor took down the president, J.
Maston, Major Elphinstone, General Morgan, Colonel Blomsberry, and other members of the club, to the number of ten in all.
How hot it was at the bottom of that long tube of metal!
But what delight! What ecstasy!
A table had been laid with six covers on the massive stone which formed the bottom of the Columbiad, and lighted by a jet of electric light resembling that of day itself.
Toasts flew backward and forward.
They drank to the earth and to her satellite, to the Gun Club, the Union, the Moon, Diana, Phoebe, Selene, the "peaceful courier of the night!
Maston was no longer master of himself.
Whether he shouted or gesticulated, ate or drank most, would be a difficult matter to determine.
To the general impatience these two months appeared as long as years!
He would have held his tongue about it, both as a measure of prudence, and in order not to have to reconsider his plans.
This telegram might be a cover for some jest, especially as it came from a Frenchman.
Barbicane, had, therefore, no further motives for keeping silence.
Consequently, he called together such of his colleagues as were at the moment in Tampa Town, and without any expression of his own opinions simply read to them the laconic text itself.
It was received with every possible variety of expressions of doubt, incredulity, and derision from every one, with the exception of J.
Did such a being exist?
They must get some clearer notion of the matter.
Scattered groups of inquirers at length condensed themselves into a compact crowd, which made straight for the residence of President Barbicane.
That worthy individual was keeping quiet with the intention of watching events as they arose.
But he had forgotten to take into account the public impatience; and it was with no pleasant countenance that he watched the population of Tampa Town gathering under his windows.
The murmurs and vociferations below presently obliged him to appear.
He came forward, therefore, and on silence being procured, a citizen put point-blank to him the following question: "Is the person mentioned in the telegram, under the name of Michel Ardan, on his way here?
Have you altered the plans of the projectile according to the request of the telegram?" "Not yet, gentlemen; but you are right! we must have better information to go by.
The telegraph must complete its information." "To the telegraph!" roared the crowd. Barbicane descended; and heading the immense assemblage, led the way to the telegraph office.
A few minutes later a telegram was dispatched to the secretary of the underwriters at Liverpool, requesting answers to the following queries: "About the ship Atlanta-when did she leave Europe?
At four o'clock the English vessel entered the Bay of Espiritu Santo.
At five it crossed the passage of Hillisborough Bay at full steam.
At six she cast anchor at Port Tampa.
The anchor had scarcely caught the sandy bottom when five hundred boats surrounded the Atlanta, and the steamer was taken by assault.
His massive head momentarily shook a shock of reddish hair, which resembled a lion's mane.
His face was short with a broad forehead, and furnished with a moustache as bristly as a cat's, and little patches of yellowish whiskers upon full cheeks.
Round, wildish eyes, slightly near-sighted, completed a physiognomy essentially feline.
His nose was firmly shaped, his mouth particularly sweet in expression, high forehead, intelligent and furrowed with wrinkles like a newly-plowed field.
The body was powerfully developed and firmly fixed upon long legs.
Muscular arms, and a general air of decision gave him the appearance of a hardy, jolly, companion.
Those "fellows," as he called them, "are only fit to mark the points, while we play the game.
He was, in fact, a thorough Bohemian, adventurous, but not an adventurer; a hare-brained fellow, a kind of Icarus, only possessing relays of wings.
For the rest, he was ever in scrapes, ending invariably by falling on his feet, like those little figures which they sell for children's toys.
Have you modified your projectile according to my telegram." "I waited for your arrival.
But," asked Barbicane again, "have you carefully reflected?" "Reflected? have I any time to spare?
I find an opportunity of making a tour in the moon, and I mean to profit by it.
There is the whole gist of the matter." Barbicane looked hard at this man who spoke so lightly of his project with such complete absence of anxiety.
So, if you have no objection, assemble your friends, colleagues, the whole town, all Florida, all America if you like, and to-morrow I shall be ready to explain my plans and answer any objections whatever that may be advanced.
You may rest assured I shall wait without stirring.
Will that suit you?" "All right," replied Barbicane. So saying, the president left the cabin and informed the crowd of the proposal of Michel Ardan.
His words were received with clappings of hands and shouts of joy.
They had removed all difficulties.
To-morrow every one would contemplate at his ease this European hero.
However, some of the spectators, more infatuated than the rest, would not leave the deck of the Atlanta.
They passed the night on board.
He might as well have tried to check the Falls of Niagara! he was compelled, therefore, to give up the idea, and let his new friend run the chances of a public conference.
The place chosen for this monster meeting was a vast plain situated in the rear of the town.
Of this crowd of spectators a first set could both see and hear; a second set saw badly and heard nothing at all; and as for the third, it could neither see nor hear anything at all.
At three o'clock Michel Ardan made his appearance, accompanied by the principal members of the Gun Club.
He was supported on his right by President Barbicane, and on his left by J.
Maston, more radiant than the midday sun, and nearly as ruddy.
Ardan mounted a platform, from the top of which his view extended over a sea of black hats. He exhibited not the slightest embarrassment; he was just as gay, familiar, and pleasant as if he were at home.
Listen to me, therefore, with your six hundred thousand ears, and please excuse the faults of the speaker.
Now pray do not forget that you see before you a perfect ignoramus whose ignorance goes so far that he cannot even understand the difficulties!
It seemed to him that it was a matter quite simple, natural, and easy to take one's place in a projectile and start for the moon!
That journey must be undertaken sooner or later; and, as for the mode of locomotion adopted, it follows simply the law of progress.
Man began by walking on all-fours; then, one fine day, on two feet; then in a carriage; then in a stage-coach; and lastly by railway.
Well, the projectile is the vehicle of the future, and the planets themselves are nothing else!
Now some of you, gentlemen, may imagine that the velocity we propose to impart to it is extravagant.
It is nothing of the kind.
And her velocity is constantly decreasing.
Distance is but a relative expression, and must end by being reduced to zero." The assembly, strongly predisposed as they were in favor of the French hero, were slightly staggered at this bold theory.
Michel Ardan perceived the fact. "Gentlemen," he continued with a pleasant smile, "you do not seem quite convinced.
Let us reason the matter out.
Do you know how long it would take for an express train to reach the moon?
Three hundred days; no more!
The distance is no more than nine times the circumference of the earth; and there are no sailors or travelers, of even moderate activity, who have not made longer journeys than that in their lifetime.
And now consider that I shall be only ninety- seven hours on my journey.
I see you are reckoning that the moon is a long way off from the earth, and that one must think twice before making the experiment.
And there are people who affirm that such a thing as distance exists.
Would you know what I think of our own solar universe?
Shall I tell you my theory?
And overcome by the energy of his movements, he nearly fell from the platform to the ground.
I am convinced that before twenty years are over one-half of our earth will have paid a visit to the moon.
It became now, however, desirable to divert Ardan from questions of a practical nature, with which he was doubtless far less conversant.
Barbicane, therefore, hastened to get in a word, and began by asking his new friend whether he thought that the moon and the planets were inhabited. "You put before me a great problem, my worthy president," replied the orator, smiling.
Still, men of great intelligence, such as Plutarch, Swedenborg, Bernardin de St. Pierre, and others have, if I mistake not, pronounced in the affirmative.
For my own part I believe they are." "For myself, I feel certain of it," said Michel Ardan. "Nevertheless," retorted one of the audience, "there are many arguments against the habitability of the worlds.
The conditions of life must evidently be greatly modified upon the majority of them.
His objection has its merits, I admit; but I think we may successfully combat it, as well as all others which affect the habitability of other worlds.
And lastly, were I a theologian, I would tell him that the scheme of the Divine Redemption, according to St. Paul, seems to be applicable, not merely to the earth, but to all the celestial worlds.
On silence being restored, the triumphant orator contented himself with adding the following remarks: "Gentlemen, you will observe that I have but slightly touched upon this great question.
There is another altogether different line of argument in favor of the habitability of the stars, which I omit for the present.
I only desire to call attention to one point.
To those who maintain that the planets are _not_ inhabited one may reply: You might be perfectly in the right, if you could only show that the earth is the best possible world, in spite of what Voltaire has said.
She has but _one_ satellite, while Jupiter, Uranus, Saturn, Neptune have each several, an advantage by no means to be despised.
But that which renders our own globe so uncomfortable is the inclination of its axis to the plane of its orbit.
Hence the inequality of days and nights; hence the disagreeable diversity of the seasons.
It possesses zones of perpetual springs, summers, autumns, and winters; every Jovian may choose for himself what climate he likes, and there spend the whole of his life in security from all variations of temperature.
You will, I am sure, readily admit this superiority of Jupiter over our own planet, to say nothing of his years, which each equal twelve of ours!
Under such auspices and such marvelous conditions of existence, it appears to me that the inhabitants of so fortunate a world must be in every respect superior to ourselves.
And, in all probability, if the truth must be told, if the Yankees could only have found a point of application for it, they would have constructed a lever capable of raising the earth and rectifying its axis.
He was a little dried-up man, of an active figure, with an American "goatee" beard. Profiting by the different movements in the crowd, he had managed by degrees to gain the front row of spectators.
There, with arms crossed and stern gaze, he watched the hero of the meeting.
After having put his question he remained silent, and appeared to take no notice of the thousands of looks directed toward himself, nor of the murmur of disapprobation excited by his words.
Meeting at first with no reply, he repeated his question with marked emphasis, adding, "We are here to talk about the _moon_ and not about the _earth_." "You are right, sir," replied Michel Ardan; "the discussion has become irregular.
He looked sternly at him in his turn and said: "Oh! so there is no air in the moon?
Nobody knew him, and the president, uneasy as to the result of so free a discussion, watched his new friend with some anxiety.
When stars are occulted by the moon, their rays, on grazing the edge of her disc, exhibit not the least deviation, nor offer the slightest indication of refraction.
It follows, therefore, that the moon cannot be surrounded by an atmosphere. "In point of fact," replied Ardan, "this is your chief, if not your _only_ argument; and a really scientific man might be puzzled to answer it.
For myself, I will simply say that it is defective, because it assumes that the angular diameter of the moon has been completely determined, which is not the case.
Tell me, my dear sir, do you admit the existence of volcanoes on the moon's surface?" "Extinct, yes!
In 1715 the astronomers Louville and Halley, watching the eclipse of the 3rd of May, remarked some very extraordinary scintillations.
Herschel himself never inferred from them the necessity of a lunar atmosphere.
A skillful French astronomer, M.
Laussedat, in watching the eclipse of July 18, 1860, probed that the horns of the lunar crescent were rounded and truncated.
Now, this appearance could only have been produced by a deviation of the solar rays in traversing the atmosphere of the moon.
There is no other possible explanation of the facts." "But is this established as a fact?" "Absolutely certain!" A counter-movement here took place in favor of the hero of the meeting, whose opponent was now reduced to silence.
Ardan resumed the conversation; and without exhibiting any exultation at the advantage he had gained, simply said: "You see, then, my dear sir, we must not pronounce with absolute positiveness against the existence of an atmosphere in the moon.
This is a happy consequence for me.
Moreover, my amiable contradictor, permit me to submit to you one further observation.
Hence it results that the great mass of air and water must have been drawn away to the other face of our satellite during the first days of its creation." "Pure fancies!" cried the unknown. "No!
Pure theories! which are based upon the laws of mechanics, and it seems difficult to me to refute them.
He was too chivalrous to abandon his opponent in an apparent extremity. "You wished to say a few more words?" he asked, in a pleasant voice. "Yes, a thousand; or rather, no, only one!
If you persevere in your enterprise, you must be a-" "Very rash person!
But its silence was more eloquent than could have been its cries of enthusiasm.
I do not know why I should continue so frivolous a discussion!
Please yourself about this insane expedition!
Michel Ardan took it all with evident pleasure.
His face gleamed with delight.
Several times the platform seemed seized with pitching and rolling like a weatherbeaten ship.
But the two heros of the meeting had good sea-legs.
They never stumbled; and their vessel arrived without dues at the port of Tampa Town. Michel Ardan managed fortunately to escape from the last embraces of his vigorous admirers.
Hitherto chance has never thrown you in my way." "I am come for that purpose." "You have insulted me." "Publicly!" "And you will answer to me for this insult?" "At this very moment." "No!
I desire that all that passes between us shall be secret.
Their is a wood situated three miles from Tampa, the wood of Skersnaw.
Thundering blows shook his door.
They seemed to be caused by some iron instrument.
A great deal of loud talking was distinguishable in this racket, which was rather too early in the morning.
Open the door," some one shrieked, "for heaven's sake!
Ardan saw no reason for complying with a demand so roughly expressed. However, he got up and opened the door just as it was giving way before the blows of this determined visitor.
The secretary of the Gun Club burst into the room.
A bomb could not have made more noise or have entered the room with less ceremony. "Last night," cried J.
Maston, _ex abrupto_, "our president was publicly insulted during the meeting.
He provoked his adversary, who is none other than Captain Nicholl!
They are fighting this morning in the wood of Skersnaw.
I heard all the particulars from the mouth of Barbicane himself.
If he is killed, then our scheme is at an end.
We must prevent his duel; and one man alone has enough influence over Barbicane to stop him, and that man is Michel Ardan." While J.
The two adversaries attack each other like wild beasts.
Then it is that they might well covet those wonderful properties of the Indians of the prairies-their quick intelligence, their ingenious cunning, their scent of the enemy.
A single mistake, a moment's hesitation, a single false step may cause death.
Barbicane, the president, my best friend?" The worthy secretary of the Gun Club thought that his president must be known by all the world.
But the bushman did not seem to understand him. "A hunter?" said Ardan. "A hunter?
It was a dense thicket, in which rose huge cypresses, sycamores, tulip-trees, olives, tamarinds, oaks, and magnolias.
These different trees had interwoven their branches into an inextricable maze, through which the eye could not penetrate.
Michel Ardan and Maston walked side by side in silence through the tall grass, cutting themselves a path through the strong creepers, casting curious glances on the bushes, and momentarily expecting to hear the sound of rifles.
A man like Barbicane would not dodge with his enemy, or ensnare him, would not even maneuver!
He is too open, too brave.
From time to time, indeed, they raised great shouts, calling alternately Barbicane and Nicholl, neither of whom, however, answered their cries.
Only the birds, awakened by the sound, flew past them and disappeared among the branches, while some frightened deer fled precipitately before them. For another hour their search was continued.
The greater part of the wood had been explored.
There was nothing to reveal the presence of the combatants.
His rifle is not in his hands.
What can he be doing?" "But can you recognize him?" asked Ardan, whose short sight was of little use to him in such circumstances. "Yes! yes!
He is turning toward us," answered Maston. "And it is?" "Captain Nicholl!" "Nicholl?" cried Michel Ardan, feeling a terrible pang of grief. "Nicholl unarmed!
The bird-catcher who had laid this snare was no human being, but a venomous spider, peculiar to that country, as large as a pigeon's egg, and armed with enormous claws.
At last it was accomplished, and the little bird flew joyfully away and disappeared. Nicholl lovingly watched its flight, when he heard these words pronounced by a voice full of emotion: "You are indeed a brave man." He turned.
Michel Ardan was before him, repeating in a different tone: "And a kindhearted one!" "Michel Ardan!" cried the captain.
Why are you here?" "To press your hand, Nicholl, and to prevent you from either killing Barbicane or being killed by him." "Barbicane!" returned the captain.
I have been looking for him for the last two hours in vain.
When we have found him, Michel Ardan tells you this, there will be no duel between you." "Between President Barbicane and myself," gravely replied Nicholl, "there is a rivalry which the death of one of us-" "Pooh, pooh!" said Ardan.
Brave fellows like you indeed! you shall not fight!" "I will fight, sir!" "No!" "Captain," said J.
I fully understand his idea of being killed himself in order to save his friend.
Another half hour passed, and the pursuit was still fruitless.
Maston was oppressed by sinister forebodings.
He looked fiercely at Nicholl, asking himself whether the captain's vengeance had already been satisfied, and the unfortunate Barbicane, shot, was perhaps lying dead on some bloody track.
Ardan looked at the captain, but he did not wince.
Ardan went forward crying: "Barbicane!
Maston," cried Barbicane, "you here also?" "Himself," replied Ardan; "and permit me to introduce to you at the same time the worthy Captain Nicholl!" "Nicholl!" cried Barbicane, who jumped up at once.
Pardon me, captain, I had quite forgotten-I am ready!" Michel Ardan interfered, without giving the two enemies time to say anything more. "Thank heaven!" said he.
It is a happy thing that brave men like you two did not meet sooner! we should now have been mourning for one or other of you.
But, thanks to Providence, which has interfered, there is now no further cause for alarm.
I cannot pretend to make you agree; but I suggest this: Go with me, and so see whether we are stopped on our journey." "What?" exclaimed J.
Maston, stupefied. The two rivals, on this sudden proposal, looked steadily at each other. Barbicane waited for the captain's answer.
Nicholl watched for the decision of the president. "Well?" said Michel.
There is now no fear of the shock!" "Done!" cried Barbicane. But quickly as he pronounced the word, he was not before Nicholl. "Hurrah! bravo! hip! hip! hurrah!" cried Michel, giving a hand to each of the late adversaries.
Now that it is all settled, my friends, allow me to treat you after French fashion.
Let us be off to breakfast!" CHAPTER XXII. THE NEW CITIZEN OF THE UNITED STATES That same day all America heard of the affair of Captain Nicholl and President Barbicane, as well as its singular _denouement_.
From that day forth, Michel Ardan had not one moment's rest.
Deputations from all corners of the Union harassed him without cessation or intermission.
He was compelled to receive them all, whether he would or no. How many hands he shook, how many people he was "hail-fellow-well-met" with, it is impossible to guess!
Do you believe in the influence of the moon upon distempers?" "Scarcely!" "No more do I, despite some remarkable recorded facts of history.
For instance, during an epidemic in 1693, a large number of persons died at the very moment of an eclipse.
The celebrated Bacon always fainted during an eclipse.
Charles VI relapsed six times into madness during the year 1399, sometimes during the new, sometimes during the full moon.
Gall observed that insane persons underwent an accession of their disorder twice in every month, at the epochs of new and full moon.
Perhaps the stories are not true!'" In the height of his triumph, Michel Ardan had to encounter all the annoyances incidental to a man of celebrity.
Managers of entertainments wanted to exhibit him.
Barnum offered him a million dollars to make a tour of the United States in his show.
As for his photographs, they were sold of all size, and his portrait taken in every imaginable posture.
He was highly gratified by his inspection, and made the descent to the bottom of the tube of this gigantic machine which was presently to launch him to the regions of the moon.
It is necessary here to mention a proposal of J.
When the secretary of the Gun Club found that Barbicane and Nicholl accepted the proposal of Michel Ardan, he determined to join them, and make one of a smug party of four.
So one day he determined to be admitted as one of the travelers.
Barbicane, pained at having to refuse him, gave him clearly to understand that the projectile could not possibly contain so many passengers.
Barbicane, desirous of obtaining some notion of the effect of the shock at the moment of the projectile's departure, had procured a 38-inch mortar from the arsenal of Pensacola.
He had this placed on the bank of Hillisborough Roads, in order that the shell might fall back into the sea, and the shock be thereby destroyed.
His object was to ascertain the extent of the shock of departure, and not that of the return. A hollow projectile had been prepared for this curious experiment.
A thick padding fastened upon a kind of elastic network, made of the best steel, lined the inside of the walls.
It was a veritable _nest_ most carefully wadded. "What a pity I can't find room in there," said J.
Maston, regretting that his height did not allow of his trying the adventure. Within this shell were shut up a large cat, and a squirrel belonging to J.
Maston, and of which he was particularly fond.
They were desirous, however, of ascertaining how this little animal, least of all others subject to giddiness, would endure this experimental voyage. The mortar was charged with 160 pounds of powder, and the shell placed in the chamber.
Hardly had the shell been opened when the cat leaped out, slightly bruised, but full of life, and exhibiting no signs whatever of having made an aerial expedition.
No trace, however, of the squirrel could be discovered.
The truth at last became apparent-the cat had eaten its fellow-traveler! J.
Maston grieved much for the loss of his poor squirrel, and proposed to add its case to that of other martyrs to science. After this experiment all hesitation, all fear disappeared.
Besides, Barbicane's plans would ensure greater perfection for his projectile, and go far to annihilate altogether the effects of the shock.
It was upon this kind of raft that the travelers were to take their place.
This body of water was divided by horizontal partitions, which the shock of the departure would have to break in succession.
This was hermetically closed by a plate of aluminum, fastened internally by powerful screw-pressure.
Now air consists principally of twenty-one parts of oxygen and seventy-nine of nitrogen.
The lungs absorb the oxygen, which is indispensable for the support of life, and reject the nitrogen.
The air expired loses nearly five per cent. of the former and contains nearly an equal volume of carbonic acid, produced by the combustion of the elements of the blood.
In an air-tight enclosure, then, after a certain time, all the oxygen of the air will be replaced by the carbonic acid-a gas fatal to life.
There were two things to be done then-first, to replace the absorbed oxygen; secondly, to destroy the expired carbonic acid; both easy enough to do, by means of chlorate of potassium and caustic potash.
The former is a salt which appears under the form of white crystals; when raised to a temperature of 400 degrees it is transformed into chlorure of potassium, and the oxygen which it contains is entirely liberated.
By these two means they would be enabled to restore to the vitiated air its life- supporting properties. It is necessary, however, to add that the experiments had hitherto been made _in anima vili_.
Whatever its scientific accuracy was, they were at present ignorant how it would answer with human beings.
The honor of putting it to the proof was energetically claimed by J.
Maston. "Since I am not to go," said the brave artillerist, "I may at least live for a week in the projectile." It would have been hard to refuse him; so they consented to his wish.
A sufficient quantity of chlorate of potassium and of caustic potash was placed at his disposal, together with provisions for eight days.
What did he do with himself during that week?
They could get no information.
The thickness of the walls of the projectile prevented any sound reaching from the inside to the outside.
On the 20th of November, at six P.M. exactly, the plate was opened.
Two telescopes in particular, at this time, were possessed of remarkable power and of gigantic dimensions.
The first, constructed by Herschel, was thirty-six feet in length, and had an object-glass of four feet six inches; it possessed a magnifying power of 6,000.
The second was raised in Ireland, in Parsonstown Park, and belongs to Lord Rosse.
According to the calculations of the Observatory of Cambridge, the tube of the new reflector would require to be 280 feet in length, and the object-glass sixteen feet in diameter.
The highest elevation of this range still does not exceed 10,700 feet.
With this elevation, nevertheless, the Gun Club were compelled to be content, inasmuch as they had determined that both telescope and Columbiad should be erected within the limits of the Union.
And yet, notwithstanding these innumerable obstacles, American genius triumphed.
In less than a year after the commencement of the works, toward the close of September, the gigantic reflector rose into the air to a height of 280 feet.
The first time it was directed toward the moon the observers evinced both curiosity and anxiety.
What were they about to discover in the field of this telescope which magnified objects 48,000 times?
Would they perceive peoples, herds of lunar animals, towns, lakes, seas?
One operation alone remained to be accomplished to bring all to a happy termination; an operation delicate and perilous, requiring infinite precautions, and against the success of which Captain Nicholl had laid his third bet.
It was, in fact, nothing less than the loading of the Columbiad, and the introduction into it of 400,000 pounds of gun-cotton.
In the first place, he was very careful as to the transportation of the gun-cotton to Stones Hill.
He had it conveyed in small quantities, carefully packed in sealed cases.
These were brought by rail from Tampa Town to the camp, and from thence were taken to the Columbiad by barefooted workmen, who deposited them in their places by means of cranes placed at the orifice of the cannon.
No steam-engine was permitted to work, and every fire was extinguished within two miles of the works. Even in November they feared to work by day, lest the sun's rays acting on the gun-cotton might lead to unhappy results.
This led to their working at night, by light produced in a vacuum by means of Ruhmkorff's apparatus, which threw an artificial brightness into the depths of the Columbiad.
So far the operation had been successful!
But what confusion, what anxieties, what struggles were undergone by President Barbicane!
In vain had he refused admission to Stones Hill; every day the inquisitive neighbors scaled the palisades, some even carrying their imprudence to the point of smoking while surrounded by bales of gun-cotton.
Barbicane was in a perpetual state of alarm.
T. Maston seconded him to the best of his ability, by giving vigorous chase to the intruders, and carefully picking up the still lighted cigar ends which the Yankees threw about.
A somewhat difficult task! seeing that more than 300,000 persons were gathered round the enclosure.
It remained now to introduce the projectile into the Columbiad, and to place it on its soft bed of gun-cotton. But before doing this, all those things necessary for the journey had to be carefully arranged in the projectile vehicle.
These necessaries were numerous; and had Ardan been allowed to follow his own wishes, there would have been no space remaining for the travelers.
It is impossible to conceive of half the things this charming Frenchman wished to convey to the moon.
A veritable stock of useless trifles!
But Barbicane interfered and refused admission to anything not absolutely needed.
Let us confine ourselves to possibilities." After a prolonged discussion, it was agreed that the travelers should restrict themselves to a sporting-dog belonging to Nicholl, and to a large Newfoundland.
Several packets of seeds were also included among the necessaries.
Barbicane managed so successfully, that he supplied them with sufficient rations for a year.
These consisted of preserved meats and vegetables, reduced by strong hydraulic pressure to the smallest possible dimensions.
They were also supplied with brandy, and took water enough for two months, being confident, from astronomical observations, that there was no lack of water on the moon's surface.
As to provisions, doubtless the inhabitants of the _earth_ would find nourishment somewhere in the _moon_.
Maston. "Nothing would be simpler," replied Ardan; "the Columbiad will be always there.
Matson; "what an ingenious fellow! what a splendid idea!
Indeed, my good friends, we shall not forget you!" "I shall reckon upon you!
There, powerful cranes raised it, and held it suspended over the mouth of the cylinder. It was a fearful moment!
What if the chains should break under its enormous weight?
Then we shall be sure not to be stopped on our journey!" CHAPTER XXVI. FIRE! The first of December had arrived! the fatal day! for, if the projectile were not discharged that very night at 10h.
P.M., more than eighteen years must roll by before the moon would again present herself under the same conditions of zenith and perigee. The weather was magnificent.
All hearts beat with disquietude, save only the heart of Michel Ardan.
The whole plain was covered with huts, cottages, and tents.
Every nation under the sun was represented there; and every language might be heard spoken at the same time.
It was a perfect Babel re-enacted.
All the various classes of American society were mingled together in terms of absolute equality.
Bankers, farmers, sailors, cotton-planters, brokers, merchants, watermen, magistrates, elbowed each other in the most free-and-easy way.
Louisiana Creoles fraternized with farmers from Indiana; Kentucky and Tennessee gentlemen and haughty Virginians conversed with trappers and the half-savages of the lakes and butchers from Cincinnati.
And as for the liquors which accompanied this indigestible repast!
The shouts, the vociferations that resounded through the bars and taverns decorated with glasses, tankards, and bottles of marvelous shape, mortars for pounding sugar, and bundles of straws!
Mint-julep" roars one of the barmen; "Claret sangaree!" shouts another; "Cocktail!
Brandy-smash!" "Real mint-julep in the new style!
All these cries intermingled produced a bewildering and deafening hubbub. But on this day, 1st of December, such sounds were rare.
No one thought of eating or drinking, and at four P.M. there were vast numbers of spectators who had not even taken their customary lunch!
An indescribable uneasiness pervaded all minds, an indefinable sensation which oppressed the heart.
Every one wished it was over. However, about seven o'clock, the heavy silence was dissipated.
The moon rose above the horizon.
Millions of hurrahs hailed her appearance. She was punctual to the rendezvous, and shouts of welcome greeted her on all sides, as her pale beams shone gracefully in the clear heavens. At this moment the three intrepid travelers appeared.
This was the signal for renewed cries of still greater intensity.
Instantly the vast assemblage, as with one accord, struck up the national hymn of the United States, and "Yankee Doodle," sung by five million of hearty throats, rose like a roaring tempest to the farthest limits of the atmosphere.
Then a profound silence reigned throughout the crowd. The Frenchman and the two Americans had by this time entered the enclosure reserved in the center of the multitude.
They were accompanied by the members of the Gun Club, and by deputations sent from all the European Observatories.
Barbicane, cool and collected, was giving his final directions.
Nicholl, with compressed lips, his arms crossed behind his back, walked with a firm and measured step.
Michel Ardan, always easy, dressed in thorough traveler's costume, leathern gaiters on his legs, pouch by his side, in loose velvet suit, cigar in mouth, was full of inexhaustible gayety, laughing, joking, playing pranks with J.
In one word, he was the thorough "Frenchman" (and worse, a "Parisian") to the last moment. Ten o'clock struck!
The moment had arrived for taking their places in the projectile!
Thus the travelers enclosed within the projectile were enabled to follow with their eyes the impassive needle which marked the precise moment of their departure. The moment had arrived for saying "good-by!
The scene was a touching one.
Despite his feverish gayety, even Michel Ardan was touched.
T. Maston had found in his own dry eyes one ancient tear, which he had doubtless reserved for the occasion.
He dropped it on the forehead of his dear president. "Can I not go?" he said, "there is still time!" "Impossible, old fellow!" replied Barbicane.
A few moments later, the three fellow-travelers had ensconced themselves in the projectile, and screwed down the plate which covered the entrance-aperture.
The mouth of the Columbiad, now completely disencumbered, was open entirely to the sky. The moon advanced upward in a heaven of the purest clearness, outshining in her passage the twinkling light of the stars.
She passed over the constellation of the Twins, and was now nearing the halfway point between the horizon and the zenith.
A terrible silence weighed upon the entire scene!
Not a breath of wind upon the earth! not a sound of breathing from the countless chests of the spectators!
Their hearts seemed afraid to beat!
All eyes were fixed upon the yawning mouth of the Columbiad. Murchison followed with his eye the hand of his chronometer.
It wanted scarce forty seconds to the moment of departure, but each second seemed to last an age!
At the twentieth there was a general shudder, as it occurred to the minds of that vast assemblage that the bold travelers shut up within the projectile were also counting those terrible seconds.
Some few cries here and there escaped the crowd. "Thirty-five!-thirty-six!-thirty-seven!-thirty-eight!-thirty-nine!- forty!
No words can convey the slightest idea of the terrific sound!
An immense spout of fire shot up from the bowels of the earth as from a crater.
The gases of the powder, expanded by heat, forced back the atmospheric strata with tremendous violence, and this artificial hurricane rushed like a water-spout through the air. Not a single spectator remained on his feet!
Men, women children, all lay prostrate like ears of corn under a tempest.
There ensued a terrible tumult; a large number of persons were seriously injured.
Maston, who, despite all dictates of prudence, had kept in advance of the mass, was pitched back 120 feet, shooting like a projectile over the heads of his fellow-citizens.
Three hundred thousand persons remained deaf for a time, and as though struck stupefied. As soon as the first effects were over, the injured, the deaf, and lastly, the crowd in general, woke up with frenzied cries.
Hurrah for Nicholl!" rose to the skies. Thousands of persons, noses in air, armed with telescopes and race-glasses, were questioning space, forgetting all contusions and emotions in the one idea of watching for the projectile.
It was no longer to be seen, and they were obliged to wait for telegrams from Long's Peak.
But since man had chosen so to disturb the atmosphere, he was bound to accept the consequences of his experiment. Supposing, now, that the experiment had succeeded, the travelers having started on the 1st of December, at 10h.
P.M., were due on the 4th at 0h.
So that up to that time it would have been very difficult after all to have observed, under such conditions, a body so small as the shell.
It was received with hisses; and wounded, no doubt, by such a reception, showed itself very sparing of its rays. On the 10th, no change!
Here is the note received by the director of the Observatory of Cambridge.
It contains the scientific conclusion regarding this great experiment of the Gun Club. LONG'S PEAK, December 12.
To the Officers of the Observatory of Cambridge.
The projectile discharged by the Columbiad at Stones Hill has been detected by Messrs.
Maston, 12th of December, at 8:47 P.M., the moon having entered her last quarter.
This projectile has not arrived at its destination.
The distance which separates it from the surface of the moon may be estimated at about 2,833 miles. However, two hypotheses come here into our consideration. 1.
Either the attraction of the moon will end by drawing them into itself, and the travelers will attain their destination; or, 2.
J. BELFAST. To how many questions did this unexpected _denouement_ give rise?
What mysterious results was the future reserving for the investigation of science?
Was it possible to go to the aid of these bold travelers?
No! for they had placed themselves beyond the pale of humanity, by crossing the limits imposed by the Creator on his earthly creatures.
They had air enough for _two_ months; they had victuals enough for _twelve;-but after that?_ There was only one man who would not admit that the situation was desperate-he alone had confidence; and that was their devoted friend J.
Maston. Besides, he never let them get out of sight.
His home was henceforth the post at Long's Peak; his horizon, the mirror of that immense reflector.
The members of the Gun Club, a circle of artillerymen formed at Baltimore after the American war, conceived the idea of putting themselves in communication with the moon!-yes, with the moon-by sending to her a projectile.
Launched on the 1st of December, at 10hrs.
Maston, and other learned men, held several meetings, at which the shape and composition of the projectile were discussed, also the position and nature of the gun, and the quality and quantity of powder to be used.
It was decided: First, that the projectile should be a shell made of aluminum with a diameter of 108 inches and a thickness of twelve inches to its walls; and should weigh 19,250 pounds.
Second, that the gun should be a Columbiad cast in iron, 900 feet long, and run perpendicularly into the earth.
The name of this intrepid adventurer was Michel Ardan.
He landed in America, was received with enthusiasm, held meetings, saw himself carried in triumph, reconciled President Barbicane to his mortal enemy, Captain Nicholl, and, as a token of reconciliation, persuaded them both to start with him in the projectile.
The proposition being accepted, the shape of the projectile was slightly altered.
It was made of a cylindro-conical form.
This species of aerial car was lined with strong springs and partitions to deaden the shock of departure.
It was provided with food for a year, water for some months, and gas for some days.
A self-acting apparatus supplied the three travelers with air to breathe.
At the same time, on one of the highest points of the Rocky Mountains, the Gun Club had a gigantic telescope erected, in order that they might be able to follow the course of the projectile through space.
These bold travelers, Michel Ardan, President Barbicane, and Captain Nicholl, ought to make the passage in ninety-seven hours, thirteen minutes, and twenty seconds.
Maston and Belfast to the gentlemen of the Cambridge Observatory, announcing that on the 11th of December at 8h.
P.M., the projectile launched by the Columbiad of Stones Hill had been detected by Messrs.
The telegram added that the elements of this new star had not yet been calculated; and indeed three observations made upon a star in three different positions are necessary to determine these elements.
But supposing they did succeed in their rash enterprise, how would they return?
Should they hear from them?
These questions, debated by the most learned pens of the day, strongly engrossed the public attention. It is advisable here to make a remark which ought to be well considered by hasty observers.
When a purely speculative discovery is announced to the public, it cannot be done with too much prudence.
Maston should have done before sending this telegram forth to the world, which, according to his idea, told the whole result of the enterprise.
Indeed this telegram contained two sorts of errors, as was proved eventually.
First, errors of observation, concerning the distance of the projectile from the surface of the moon, for on the 11th of December it was impossible to see it; and what Joseph T.
Maston had seen, or thought he saw, could not have been the projectile of the Columbiad.
Besides this, it will prove that their worthy friend, Joseph T.
Maston, was wasting his time, while leaning over the gigantic telescope he watched the course of the moon through the starry space. CHAPTER I. TWENTY MINUTES PAST TEN TO FORTY-SEVEN MINUTES PAST TEN P.
M. As ten o'clock struck, Michel Ardan, Barbicane, and Nicholl, took leave of the numerous friends they were leaving on the earth.
And first let us try and see a little.
Do you say to yourself, 'This prison may be our tomb?
This chronometer was set within the tenth of a second by that of Murchison the engineer.
Barbicane consulted it. "My friends," said he, "it is twenty minutes past ten.
At forty- seven minutes past ten Murchison will launch the electric spark on the wire which communicates with the charge of the Columbiad.
At that precise moment we shall leave our spheroid.
Thus we still have twenty-seven minutes to remain on the earth." "Twenty-six minutes thirteen seconds," replied the methodical Nicholl. "Well!" exclaimed Michel Ardan, in a good-humored tone, "much may be done in twenty-six minutes.
The gravest questions of morals and politics may be discussed, and even solved.
He hopes!-He is not sure!-and he waits for the moment when we are encased to make this deplorable admission!
Then they began to examine the objects imprisoned with them. "Everything is in its place," said Barbicane.
We have now to decide how we can best place ourselves to resist the shock.
Ah, Satellite!" he exclaimed, teasing them; "so you are going to show the moon-dogs the good habits of the dogs of the earth! That will do honor to the canine race!
I bet that we shall find chickens." "A hundred dollars we shall find none!" said Nicholl. "Done, my captain!" replied Ardan, clasping Nicholl's hand.
Thirty-seven minutes six seconds past ten." "It is understood, captain.
I only ask to be allowed to pay." "Come, Nicholl.
And under this projectile are rammed 400,000 pounds of gun-cotton, which is equal to 1,600,000 pounds of ordinary powder!
A few instants alone separate us from an eventful moment.
What effect had this frightful shock produced?
Had the ingenuity of the constructors of the projectile obtained any happy result?
Had the shock been deadened, thanks to the springs, the four plugs, the water-cushions, and the partition-breaks?
Had they been able to subdue the frightful pressure of the initiatory speed of more than 11,000 yards, which was enough to traverse Paris or New York in a second?
This was evidently the question suggested to the thousand spectators of this moving scene.
They forgot the aim of the journey, and thought only of the travelers.
And if one of them-Joseph T.
Maston for example-could have cast one glimpse into the projectile, what would he have seen? Nothing then.
But its cylindro- conical partitions had resisted wonderfully.
Not a rent or a dent anywhere!
He felt himself all over, gave a sonorous "Hem!" and then said: "Michel Ardan is whole.
How about the others?" The courageous Frenchman tried to rise, but could not stand.
His head swam, from the rush of blood; he was blind; he was a drunken man. "Bur-r!" said he.
It produces the same effect as two bottles of Corton, though perhaps less agreeable to swallow.
Then, passing his hand several times across his forehead and rubbing his temples, he called in a firm voice: "Nicholl!
No answer; not even a sigh to show that the hearts of his companions were still beating.
The same silence. "The devil!" he exclaimed.
They look as if they had fallen from a fifth story on their heads.
Bah!" he added, with that imperturbable confidence which nothing could check, "if a Frenchman can get on his knees, two Americans ought to be able to get on their feet.
But first let us light up." Ardan felt the tide of life return by degrees.
His blood became calm, and returned to its accustomed circulation.
Another effort restored his equilibrium.
He succeeded in rising, drew a match from his pocket, and approaching the burner lighted it.
The receiver had not suffered at all.
The gas had not escaped.
Besides, the smell would have betrayed it; and in that case Michel Ardan could not have carried a lighted match with impunity through the space filled with hydrogen.
The gas mixing with the air would have produced a detonating mixture, and the explosion would have finished what the shock had perhaps begun.
This means, used with judgment, restored Nicholl, who opened his eyes, and instantly recovering his presence of mind, seized Ardan's hand and looked around him. "And Barbicane?" said he. "Each in turn," replied Michel Ardan.
I began with you, Nicholl, because you were on the top.
Now let us look to Barbicane.
Saying which, Ardan and Nicholl raised the president of the Gun Club and laid him on the divan.
Rub, Nicholl; let us rub harder.
And the two improvised practitioners worked so hard and so well that Barbicane recovered his senses.
In any case they could not decide on the position of the projectile.
Its apparent immovability, and the want of communication with the outside, prevented them from solving the question.
Perhaps the projectile was unwinding its course through space.
Thus, highly excited, Barbicane's moral energy triumphed over physical weakness, and he rose to his feet.
Outside was perfect silence; but the thick padding was enough to intercept all sounds coming from the earth.
But one circumstance struck Barbicane, viz., that the temperature inside the projectile was singularly high.
The president drew a thermometer from its case and consulted it.
This stifling heat, penetrating through the partitions of the projectile, is produced by its friction on the atmospheric strata.
It will soon diminish, because we are already floating in space, and after having nearly stifled, we shall have to suffer intense cold. "What!" said Michel Ardan.
According to your showing, Barbicane, we are already beyond the limits of the terrestrial atmosphere?" "Without a doubt, Michel.
This diminution is considerable, but according to my calculations it is nothing less.
If, then, we had an initiatory speed of 12,000 yards, on leaving the atmosphere this speed would be reduced to 9,165 yards.
It cannot be a serious one.
For have we not been half annihilated by the shock?
Did I not recall you to life?
It was quite an inexplicable phenomenon.
These bolts were pushed outside, and the buffers covered with India-rubber stopped up the holes which let them through.
Immediately the outer plate fell back upon its hinges like a porthole, and the lenticular glass which closed the scuttle appeared.
A similar one was let into the thick partition on the opposite side of the projectile, another in the top of the dome, and finally a fourth in the middle of the base.
But it was lit by no ray of light.
Profound darkness surrounded them, which, however, did not prevent the president from exclaiming: "No, my friends, we have not fallen back upon the earth; no, nor are we submerged in the Gulf of Mexico.
Yes! we are mounting into space.
This darkness also showed that the projectile had passed the atmospheric strata, for the diffused light spread in the air would have been reflected on the metal walls, which reflection was wanting.
This light would have lit the window, and the window was dark.
Michel Ardan, taking off his hat, bowed to his two companions without speaking.
So much formality under such circumstances left him speechless.
He had never before seen anything so "American." [1] This is a purely French habit. This affair settled, Barbicane and Nicholl had returned to the window, and were watching the constellations.
The stars looked like bright points on the black sky.
But from that side they could not see the orb of night, which, traveling from east to west, would rise by degrees toward the zenith.
It was an enormous disc, whose colossal dimension could not be estimated.
Its face, which was turned to the earth, was very bright. One might have thought it a small moon reflecting the light of the large one.
She advanced with great speed, and seemed to describe an orbit round the earth, which would intersect the passage of the projectile.
This body revolved upon its axis, and exhibited the phenomena of all celestial bodies abandoned in space. "Ah!" exclaimed Michel Ardan, "What is that? another projectile?" Barbicane did not answer.
The appearance of this enormous body surprised and troubled him.
The president caught at a glance the consequences of these three hypotheses, either of which would, one way or the other, bring their experiment to an unsuccessful and fatal termination.
His companions stood silently looking into space.
The object grew rapidly as it approached them, and by an optical illusion the projectile seemed to be throwing itself before it. "By Jove!" exclaimed Michel Ardan, "we shall run into one another!" Instinctively the travelers drew back.
Their dread was great, but it did not last many seconds.
Surely infinity of space is large enough for a poor little projectile to walk through without fear.
It was by noticing disturbances that a French astronomer, M.
Petit, was able to determine the existence of this second satellite and calculate its elements.
Why did we not hear the detonation of the Columbiad?" For want of an answer the conversation dropped, and Barbicane began thoughtfully to let down the shutter of the second side.
He succeeded; and through the uncovered glass the moon filled the projectile with a brilliant light.
Nicholl, as an economical man, put out the gas, now useless, and whose brilliancy prevented any observation of the inter-planetary space. The lunar disc shone with wonderful purity.
Her rays, no longer filtered through the vapory atmosphere of the terrestrial globe, shone through the glass, filling the air in the interior of the projectile with silvery reflections.
The black curtain of the firmament in reality heightened the moon's brilliancy, which in this void of ether unfavorable to diffusion did not eclipse the neighboring stars.
The heavens, thus seen, presented quite a new aspect, and one which the human eye could never dream of.
The disc shone like a platinum mirror.
Of the earth flying from under their feet, the travelers had lost all recollection. It was captain Nicholl who first recalled their attention to the vanishing globe. "Yes," said Michel Ardan, "do not let us be ungrateful to it.
Since we are leaving our country, let our last looks be directed to it.
The disc, which the force of the projection had beaten down to the base, was removed, not without difficulty.
Its fragments, placed carefully against a wall, might serve again upon occasion.
Then a circular gap appeared, nineteen inches in diameter, hollowed out of the lower part of the projectile.
A glass cover, six inches thick and strengthened with upper fastenings, closed it tightly.
Beneath was fixed an aluminum plate, held in place by bolts.
The screws being undone, and the bolts let go, the plate fell down, and visible communication was established between the interior and the exterior. Michel Ardan knelt by the glass.
It was cloudy, seemingly opaque. "Well!" he exclaimed, "and the earth?" "The earth?" said Barbicane.
There it is." "What! that little thread; that silver crescent?" "Doubtless, Michel.
The earth, with respect to the projectile, was entering its last phase.
It was in its octant, and showed a crescent finely traced on the dark background of the sky.
Its light, rendered bluish by the thick strata of the atmosphere was less intense than that of the crescent moon, but it was of considerable dimensions, and looked like an enormous arch stretched across the firmament.
Some parts brilliantly lighted, especially on its concave part, showed the presence of high mountains, often disappearing behind thick spots, which are never seen on the lunar disc.
They were rings of clouds placed concentrically round the terrestrial globe. While the travelers were trying to pierce the profound darkness, a brilliant cluster of shooting stars burst upon their eyes.
Hundreds of meteorites, ignited by the friction of the atmosphere, irradiated the shadow of the luminous train, and lined the cloudy parts of the disc with their fire.
Was it weariness of body and mind?
Could they have found a calmer or more peaceful spot to sleep in?
On the earth, houses, towns, cottages, and country feel every shock given to the exterior of the globe.
On sea, the vessels rocked by the waves are still in motion; in the air, the balloon oscillates incessantly on the fluid strata of divers densities.
Satellite! here, Satellite!" But Satellite did not appear.
Diana would not leave off howling.
They found, however, that she was not bruised, and they gave her a pie, which silenced her complaints.
As to Satellite, he seemed quite lost. They had to hunt a long time before finding him in one of the upper compartments of the projectile, whither some unaccountable shock must have violently hurled him.
The poor beast, much hurt, was in a piteous state. "The devil!" said Michel. They brought the unfortunate dog down with great care.
Its skull had been broken against the roof, and it seemed unlikely that he could recover from such a shock.
Meanwhile, he was stretched comfortably on a cushion.
Once there, he heaved a sigh. "We will take care of you," said Michel; "we are responsible for your existence.
I would rather lose an arm than a paw of my poor Satellite." Saying which, he offered some water to the wounded dog, who swallowed it with avidity. This attention paid, the travelers watched the earth and the moon attentively.
We inhabit a new world, peopled by ourselves-the projectile!
I am Barbicane's likeness, and Barbicane is Nicholl's.
To the soup succeeded some beefsteaks, compressed by an hydraulic press, as tender and succulent as if brought straight from the kitchen of an English eating-house.
But when the moon is enveloped in this shadow, it is because the centers of the three stars, the sun, the earth, and the moon, are all in one and the same straight line.
Then the _nodes_ coincide with the _phases_ of the moon, and there is an eclipse.
The moon above, the sun beneath, were inundating it with their fire. "It is pleasant here," said Nicholl. "I should think so," said Michel Ardan.
With a little earth spread on our aluminum planet we should have green peas in twenty-four hours.
I should not be surprised if it did not look like a meteor on fire to the eyes of the spectators in Florida." "But then J.
Maston will think we are roasted!" "What astonishes me," said Barbicane, "is that we have not been.
One must remember that this aerial car had a base with a _superficies_ of fifty-four square feet.
Its height to the roof was twelve feet.
Carefully laid out in the inside, and little encumbered by instruments and traveling utensils, which each had their particular place, it left the three travelers a certain freedom of movement.
Their provisions were abundant, and plentiful enough to last the three travelers for more than a year.
Barbicane wished to be cautious, in case the projectile should land on a part of the moon which was utterly barren.
Thus, during their passage, and for the first year of their settlement on the lunar continent, these adventurous explorers would suffer neither hunger nor thirst. Now about the air in the projectile.
There, too, they were secure. Reiset and Regnaut's apparatus, intended for the production of oxygen, was supplied with chlorate of potassium for two months.
But there again they were all safe.
The apparatus only wanted a little care.
But it was not enough to renew the oxygen; they must absorb the carbonic acid produced by expiration.
During the last twelve hours the atmosphere of the projectile had become charged with this deleterious gas.
Nicholl discovered the state of the air by observing Diana panting painfully.
The carbonic acid, by a phenomenon similar to that produced in the famous Grotto del Cane, had collected at the bottom of the projectile owing to its weight.
Poor Diana, with her head low, would suffer before her masters from the presence of this gas.
The thermometers and barometers had resisted, all but one minimum thermometer, the glass of which was broken.
An excellent aneroid was drawn from the wadded box which contained it and hung on the wall.
Of course it was only affected by and marked the pressure of the air inside the projectile, but it also showed the quantity of moisture which it contained.
Indeed, at the distance they were from the earth, the magnetic pole could have no perceptible action upon the apparatus; but the box placed on the lunar disc might perhaps exhibit some strange phenomena.
There was a sort of granary there, loaded with things which the extravagant Frenchman had heaped up.
What they were no one knew, and the good-tempered fellow did not explain.
Now and then he climbed up by cramp-irons riveted to the walls, but kept the inspection to himself.
The inspection ended with general satisfaction, when each returned to watch space through the side windows and the lower glass coverlid. There was the same view.
The whole extent of the celestial sphere swarmed with stars and constellations of wonderful purity, enough to drive an astronomer out of his mind!
On one side the sun, like the mouth of a lighted oven, a dazzling disc without a halo, standing out on the dark background of the sky!
On the other, the moon returning its fire by reflection, and apparently motionless in the midst of the starry world.
Then, a large spot seemingly nailed to the firmament, bordered by a silvery cord; it was the earth!
The observers could not take their eyes from this novel spectacle, of which no description could give an adequate idea. What reflections it suggested!
What emotions hitherto unknown awoke in their souls!
Barbicane wished to begin the relation of his journey while under its first impressions, and hour after hour took notes of all facts happening in the beginning of the enterprise.
In this microcosm he represented French loquacity and excitability, and we beg you to believe that they were well represented.
The day, or rather (for the expression is not correct) the lapse of twelve hours, which forms a day upon the earth, closed with a plentiful supper carefully prepared.
Not a motion betrayed its onward course through space.
The rate of progress, however rapid it might be, cannot produce any sensible effect on the human frame when it takes place in a vacuum, or when the mass of air circulates with the body which is carried with it.
What inhabitant of the earth perceives its speed, which, however, is at the rate of 68,000 miles per hour?
Michel Ardan, who was the first on his feet, climbed to the top of the projectile, and shutting a box, the lid of which was partly open, said in a low voice, "Will you hold your tongue?
That creature will spoil my design!" But Nicholl and Barbicane were awake. "A cock!" said Nicholl. "Why no, my friends," Michel answered quickly; "it was I who wished to awake you by this rural sound.
It is very Gallic; they play the cock so in the best society." Then turning the conversation: "Barbicane, do you know what I have been thinking of all night?" "No," answered the president. "Of our Cambridge friends.
Divisions and multiplications grew under his fingers; the figures were like hail on the white page.
Who could have expected such an error in calculation?
Barbicane would not believe it.
Nicholl revised his figures: they were exact.
There was no thought of breakfast.
Barbicane, with clenched teeth, knitted brows, and hands clasped convulsively, was watching through the window.
Nicholl had crossed his arms, and was examining his calculations.
Michel Ardan was muttering: "That is just like these scientific men: they never do anything else.
Nicholl understood that the president was deducting from the terrestrial diameter the projectile's distance from the earth.
He watched him anxiously. "No," exclaimed Barbicane, after some moments, "no, we are not falling! no, we are already more than 50,000 leagues from the earth.
We have passed the point at which the projectile would have stopped if its speed had only been 12,000 yards at starting.
We are still going up." "That is evident," replied Nicholl; "and we must conclude that our initial speed, under the power of the 400,000 pounds of gun-cotton, must have exceeded the required 12,000 yards.
The initial speed had been, very fortunately, much above that estimated by the Cambridge Observatory; but the Cambridge Observatory had nevertheless made a mistake. The travelers, recovered from this false alarm, breakfasted merrily.
If they ate a good deal, they talked more.
Their confidence was greater after than before "the incident of the algebra." "Why should we not succeed?" said Michel Ardan; "why should we not arrive safely?
Ah, now we are no longer uneasy, I begin to think, What will become of us?
I demand to see the projectile." "My friend," replied Barbicane, "the sea covers five-sixths of our globe.
I love those old donkeys; they are the least favored animals in creation; they are not only beaten while alive, but even after they are dead." "How do you make that out?" asked Barbicane.
Why," said Michel, "they make their skins into drums." Barbicane and Nicholl could not help laughing at this ridiculous remark.
But a cry from their merry companion stopped them.
The latter was leaning over the spot where Satellite lay.
He rose, saying: "My good Satellite is no longer ill." "Ah!" said Nicholl. "No," answered Michel, "he is dead!
There," added he, in a piteous tone, "that is embarrassing.
I much fear, my poor Diana, that you will leave no progeny in the lunar regions!" Indeed the unfortunate Satellite had not survived its wound.
Michel Ardan looked at his friends with a rueful countenance. "One question presents itself," said Barbicane.
We cannot keep the dead body of this dog with us for the next forty-eight hours." "No! certainly not," replied Nicholl; "but our scuttles are fixed on hinges; they can be let down.
The first relates to the air shut up in the projectile, and of which we must lose as little as possible." "But we manufacture the air?" "Only in part.
We make only the oxygen, my worthy Michel; and with regard to that, we must watch that the apparatus does not furnish the oxygen in too great a quantity; for an excess would bring us very serious physiological troubles.
Where there is no air, there is no more heat than diffused light; and the same with darkness; it is cold where the sun's rays do not strike direct.
We shall, however, be able to verify these calculations for ourselves." "Not at present; because the solar rays, beating directly upon our thermometer, would give, on the contrary, a very high temperature.
But, when we arrive in the moon, during its fifteen days of night at either face, we shall have leisure to make the experiment, for our satellite lies in a vacuum." "What do you mean by a vacuum?" asked Michel.
It is these atoms which, by their vibratory motion, produce both light and heat in the universe." They now proceeded to the burial of Satellite.
The bolts of the right scuttle, the opening of which measured about twelve inches across, were carefully drawn, while Michel, quite grieved, prepared to launch his dog into space.
The glass, raised by a powerful lever, which enabled it to overcome the pressure of the inside air on the walls of the projectile, turned rapidly on its hinges, and Satellite was thrown out.
In time it was just over five hours and forty minutes, half of that assigned to their sojourn in the projectile; but they had already accomplished nearly seven-tenths of the way.
This peculiarity was due to their regularly decreasing speed. Now when they observed the earth through the lower window, it looked like nothing more than a dark spot, drowned in the solar rays.
No more crescent, no more cloudy light!
The next day, at midnight, the earth would be _new_, at the very moment when the moon would be full.
Above, the orb of night was nearing the line followed by the projectile, so as to meet it at the given hour.
All around the black vault was studded with brilliant points, which seemed to move slowly; but, at the great distance they were from them, their relative size did not seem to change.
I am sorry it did not happen, 'just to see.'" "And you would have seen," replied Barbicane.
It is known now that heat is only a modification of motion.
When water is warmed-that is to say, when heat is added to it-its particles are set in motion." "Well," said Michel, "that is an ingenious theory!" "And a true one, my worthy friend; for it explains every phenomenon of caloric.
Heat is but the motion of atoms, a simple oscillation of the particles of a body.
When they apply the brake to a train, the train comes to a stop; but what becomes of the motion which it had previously possessed?
It is transformed into heat, and the brake becomes hot.
Why do they grease the axles of the wheels?
To prevent their heating, because this heat would be generated by the motion which is thus lost by transformation." "Yes, I understand," replied Michel, "perfectly.
For example, when I have run a long time, when I am swimming, when I am perspiring in large drops, why am I obliged to stop?
And this theory allows us to infer that the heat of the solar disc is fed by a hail of meteors falling incessantly on its surface.
If there are inhabitants, they must breathe.
I wish I was there!
By the bye, Barbicane, have the Selenites eclipses?" "Yes, eclipses of the sun," replied Barbicane, "when the centers of the three orbs are on a line, the earth being in the middle.
But they are only partial, during which the earth, cast like a screen upon the solar disc, allows the greater portion to be seen." "And why," asked Nicholl, "is there no total eclipse?
Does not the cone of the shadow cast by the earth extend beyond the moon?" "Yes, if we do not take into consideration the refraction produced by the terrestrial atmosphere.
No, if we take that refraction into consideration.
Thus let <lower case delta> be the horizontal parallel, and _p_ the apparent semidiameter-" "Oh!" said Michel.
Besides we shall see when we get there.
According to the ancients, the Arcadians pretend that their ancestors inhabited the earth before the moon became her satellite.
What time is it?" asked Barbicane. "Three o'clock," answered Nicholl. "How time goes," said Michel, "in the conversation of scientific men such as we are!
Certainly, I feel I know too much!
I feel that I am becoming a well!" Saying which, Michel hoisted himself to the roof of the projectile, "to observe the moon better," he pretended.
During this time his companions were watching through the lower glass.
This object seemed as motionless as the projectile, and was consequently animated with the same ascending movement. "What is that machine?" continued Michel Ardan.
When you create a vacuum in a tube, the objects you send through it, grains of dust or grains of lead, fall with the same rapidity.
Why cannot we walk outside like the meteor?
Why cannot we launch into space through the scuttle?
It is no asteroid which is accompanying us!
It is not a piece of a planet." "What is it then?" asked Barbicane. "It is our unfortunate dog!
There was a subject for conversation which the whole evening could not exhaust. Besides, the excitement of the three travelers increased as they drew near the end of their journey.
They expected unforseen incidents, and new phenomena; and nothing would have astonished them in the frame of mind they then were in. Their overexcited imagination went faster than the projectile, whose speed was evidently diminishing, though insensibly to themselves.
But the moon grew larger to their eyes, and they fancied if they stretched out their hands they could seize it. The next day, the 5th of November, at five in the morning, all three were on foot.
That day was to be the last of their journey, if all calculations were true.
That very night, at twelve o'clock, in eighteen hours, exactly at the full moon, they would reach its brilliant disc. The next midnight would see that journey ended, the most extraordinary of ancient or modern times.
Thus from the first of the morning, through the scuttles silvered by its rays, they saluted the orb of night with a confident and joyous hurrah. The moon was advancing majestically along the starry firmament.
A favorable circumstance if, as they thought, the lunar atmosphere was stored only in its depths. "Besides," observed Michel Ardan, "a plain is easier to disembark upon than a mountain.
So it is all for the best." Indeed, the success of the audacious attempt no longer appeared doubtful.
But Barbicane was preoccupied with one thought; but not wishing to make his companions uneasy, he kept silence on this subject. The direction the projectile was taking toward the moon's northern hemisphere, showed that her course had been slightly altered.
The discharge, mathematically calculated, would carry the projectile to the very center of the lunar disc.
If it did not land there, there must have been some deviation.
But all relief was as yet leveled in intense brilliancy.
They could scarcely distinguish those large spots which give the moon the appearance of a human face. "Face, indeed!" said Michel Ardan; "but I am sorry for the amiable sister of Apollo.
A very pitted face!" But the travelers, now so near the end, were incessantly observing this new world.
They imagined themselves walking through its unknown countries, climbing its highest peaks, descending into its lowest depths.
Here and there they fancied they saw vast seas, scarcely kept together under so rarefied an atmosphere, and water-courses emptying the mountain tributaries.
Leaning over the abyss, they hoped to catch some sounds from that orb forever mute in the solitude of space.
That last day left them. They took down the most trifling details.
A vague uneasiness took possession of them as they neared the end.
This uneasiness would have been doubled had they felt how their speed had decreased.
It would have seemed to them quite insufficient to carry them to the end.
It was because the projectile then "weighed" almost nothing.
They ate with a good appetite.
Nothing was so excellent as the soup liquefied by the heat of the gas; nothing better than the preserved meat.
Some glasses of good French wine crowned the repast, causing Michel Ardan to remark that the lunar vines, warmed by that ardent sun, ought to distill even more generous wines; that is, if they existed.
In any case, the far-seeing Frenchman had taken care not to forget in his collection some precious cuttings of the Medoc and Cote d'Or, upon which he founded his hopes. Reiset and Regnaut's apparatus worked with great regularity.
Not an atom of carbonic acid resisted the potash; and as to the oxygen, Captain Nicholl said "it was of the first quality.
Maston, began to acquire a degree of embonpoint which would have rendered them unrecognizable if their imprisonment had been prolonged to some months.
In a word, they behaved like chickens in a coop; they were getting fat. In looking through the scuttle Barbicane saw the specter of the dog, and other divers objects which had been thrown from the projectile, obstinately following them.
What am I saying? to _etherize_ him, as here ether takes the place of earth.
You see the accusing body would have followed us into space like a remorse." "That would have been sad," said Nicholl. "Ah!" continued Michel, "what I regret is not being able to take a walk outside.
What voluptuousness to float amid this radiant ether, to bathe oneself in it, to wrap oneself in the sun's pure rays.
So do not regret it, and do not forget this-as long as we float in space, all sentimental walks beyond the projectile are forbidden." Michel Ardan allowed himself to be convinced to a certain extent.
He admitted that the thing was difficult but not impossible, a word which he never uttered. The conversation passed from this subject to another, not failing him for an instant.
It seemed to the three friends as though, under present conditions, ideas shot up in their brains as leaves shoot at the first warmth of spring.
Later, when we think it is advisable to return, we will take counsel together.
If the Columbiad is not there, the projectile will be." "That is a step certainly.
A ball without a gun!" "The gun," replied Barbicane, "can be manufactured.
The powder can be made.
Let it be no longer a question of returning: we have already entertained it too long.
And how we shall be able to laugh at the post-office administration!
But now I think of it-" "What do you think of?" "A capital idea.
Why did we not fasten a thread to our projectile, and we could have exchanged telegrams with the earth?" "The deuce!" answered Nicholl.
Do you consider the weight of a thread 250,000 miles long nothing?" "As nothing.
But I have a notion that, if we do not return to earth, J.
Maston will be able to come to us." "Yes, he'll come," replied Barbicane; "he is a worthy and a courageous comrade.
Is not the Columbiad still buried in the soil of Florida?
Is cotton and nitric acid wanted wherewith to manufacture the pyroxyle?
And by and by they will run trains of projectiles between the earth and the moon!
Maston!" It is probable that, if the Hon. J.
Maston did not hear the hurrahs uttered in his honor, his ears at least tingled.
What was he doing then?
Doubtless, posted in the Rocky Mountains, at the station of Long's Peak, he was trying to find the invisible projectile gravitating in space.
Their sobriety could not be doubted.
We have only to make Selenites.
Diana, joining in the dance, and howling in her turn, jumped to the top of the projectile.
Whence the cause of this singular intoxication, the consequences of which might have been very disastrous?
A simple blunder of Michel's, which, fortunately, Nicholl was able to correct in time. After a perfect swoon, which lasted some minutes, the captain, recovering first, soon collected his scattered senses.
Although he had breakfasted only two hours before, he felt a gnawing hunger, as if he had not eaten anything for several days.
Everything about him, stomach and brain, were overexcited to the highest degree.
He got up and demanded from Michel a supplementary repast.
Michel, utterly done up, did not answer. Nicholl then tried to prepare some tea destined to help the absorption of a dozen sandwiches.
He first tried to get some fire, and struck a match sharply.
What was his surprise to see the sulphur shine with so extraordinary a brilliancy as to be almost unbearable to the eye.
From the gas-burner which he lit rose a flame equal to a jet of electric light. A revelation dawned on Nicholl's mind.
An hour later, the air less charged with it restored the lungs to their normal condition.
This unexpected drunkenness broke the monotony of the journey.
Many foolish things had been said while under its influence, but also quickly forgotten. "And then," added the merry Frenchman, "I am not sorry to have tasted a little of this heady gas.
Do you know, my friends, that a curious establishment might be founded with rooms of oxygen, where people whose system is weakened could for a few hours live a more active life.
Fancy parties where the room was saturated with this heroic fluid, theaters where it should be kept at high pressure; what passion in the souls of the actors and spectators! what fire, what enthusiasm!
And if, instead of an assembly only a whole people could be saturated, what activity in its functions, what a supplement to life it would derive.
I wanted to set them free on the lunar continent, without saying anything.
Oh, what would have been your amazement on seeing these earthly-winged animals pecking in your lunar fields!" "You rascal, you unmitigated rascal," replied Barbicane, "you do not want oxygen to mount to the head.
Chickens and cock were reinstated in their coop.
But while proceeding with this operation, Barbicane and his two companions had a most desired perception of a new phenomenon.
From the moment of leaving the earth, their own weight, that of the projectile, and the objects it enclosed, had been subject to an increasing diminution.
Indeed, the projectile's course was being traced between the earth and the moon.
As it distanced the earth, the terrestrial attraction diminished: but the lunar attraction rose in proportion.
There must come a point where these two attractions would neutralize each other: the projectile would possess weight no longer.
If the moon's and the earth's densities had been equal, this point would have been at an equal distance between the two orbs.
But taking the different densities into consideration, it was easy to reckon that this point would be situated at 47/60ths of the whole journey, _i.e._, at 78,514 leagues from the earth.
What would happen then? Three hypotheses presented themselves. 1.
Either it would retain a certain amount of motion, and pass the point of equal attraction, and fall upon the moon by virtue of the excess of the lunar attraction over the terrestrial. 2.
Or, its speed failing, and unable to reach the point of equal attraction, it would fall upon the moon by virtue of the excess of the lunar attraction over the terrestrial. 3.
Diana too, placed in space by Michel, reproduced, but without any trick, the wonderful suspension practiced by Caston and Robert Houdin.
Indeed the dog did not seem to know that she was floating in air. The three adventurous companions were surprised and stupefied, despite their scientific reasonings.
They felt themselves being carried into the domain of wonders! they felt that weight was really wanting to their bodies.
If they stretched out their arms, they did not attempt to fall.
Their heads shook on their shoulders.
Their feet no longer clung to the floor of the projectile.
They were like drunken men having no stability in themselves. Fancy has depicted men without reflection, others without shadow.
Ah! if Raphael had seen us thus, what an 'Assumption' he would have thrown upon canvas!" "The 'Assumption' cannot last," replied Barbicane.
The influence of these attractions scarcely lasted an hour; the travelers felt themselves insensibly drawn toward the floor, and Barbicane fancied that the conical end of the projectile was varying a little from its normal direction toward the moon.
However, we will be satisfied with the moon for the present; there at least we shall cut a great figure.
Happily, Barbicane, not content with employing water, had furnished the movable disc with strong spring plugs, destined to lessen the shock against the base after the breaking of the horizontal partitions.
It was past twelve when all preparations were finished.
Barbicane took fresh observations on the inclination of the projectile, but to his annoyance it had not turned over sufficiently for its fall; it seemed to take a curve parallel to the lunar disc.
Inside, these guns were flush with the bottom; outside, they protruded about eighteen inches.
There were twenty of them.
An opening left in the disc allowed them to light the match with which each was provided.
All the effect was felt outside.
The burning mixture had already been rammed into each gun.
But the projectile was perceptibly nearing the moon, and evidently succumbed to her influence to a certain degree; though its own velocity also drew it in an oblique direction.
From these conflicting influences resulted a line which might become a tangent.
The Unknown was opening before him, the Unknown in interplanetary space.
To face it without flinching, one must be a resolute savant like Barbicane, a phlegmatic being like Nicholl, or an audacious adventurer like Michel Ardan. Conversation was started upon this subject.
An error, however small, would be enough to throw us out of the moon's attraction." "Then they must have aimed badly?" asked Michel. "I do not think so," replied Barbicane.
The perpendicularity of the gun was exact, its direction to the zenith of the spot incontestible; and the moon passing to the zenith of the spot, we ought to reach it at the full.
There is another reason, but it escapes me." "Are we not arriving too late?" asked Nicholl. "Too late?" said Barbicane. "Yes," continued Nicholl.
It is now half-past three in the evening; half-past eight ought to see us at the end of our journey.
Why do we not arrive?" "Might it not be an excess of speed?" answered Nicholl; "for we know now that its initial velocity was greater than they supposed." "No! a hundred times, no!" replied Barbicane.
An excess of speed, if the direction of the projectile had been right, would not have prevented us reaching the moon.
No, there has been a deviation.
That we have deviated is a fact.
Where we are going matters little; we shall soon see.
Since we are being borne along in space we shall end by falling into some center of attraction or other." Michel Ardan's indifference did not content Barbicane.
Not that he was uneasy about the future, but he wanted to know at any cost _why_ his projectile had deviated. But the projectile continued its course sideways to the moon, and with it the mass of things thrown out.
Barbicane could even prove, by the elevations which served as landmarks upon the moon, which was only two thousand leagues distant, that its speed was becoming uniform-fresh proof that there was no fall.
The moon had grown so large in their eyes that it filled half of the firmament.
The sun on one side, and the orb of night on the other, flooded the projectile with light. At that moment Barbicane thought he could estimate the distance which separated them from their aim at no more than 700 leagues.
The speed of the projectile seemed to him to be more than 200 yards, or about 170 leagues a second.
The projectile was evidently nearing the moon, but it was also evident that it would never reach her.
However slight it might have been, it had sufficed to modify the course of the projectile.
This was the question, and the only one, which occupied the minds of these bold travelers.
As to the fate in store for themselves, they did not even dream of it. But what would become of them amid these infinite solitudes, these who would soon want air?
A few more days, and they would fall stifled in this wandering projectile.
And more than that, with the powerful one set up at Long's Peak, the orb of night, magnified 48,000 times, is brought to within less than two leagues, and objects having a diameter of thirty feet are seen very distinctly.
So that, at this distance, the topographical details of the moon, observed without glasses, could not be determined with precision.
The eye caught the vast outline of those immense depressions inappropriately called "seas," but they could not recognize their nature.
The prominence of the mountains disappeared under the splendid irradiation produced by the reflection of the solar rays.
The eye, dazzled as if it was leaning over a bath of molten silver, turned from it involuntarily; but the oblong form of the orb was quite clear.
It appeared like a gigantic egg, with the small end turned toward the earth.
Indeed the moon, liquid and pliable in the first days of its formation, was originally a perfect sphere; but being soon drawn within the attraction of the earth, it became elongated under the influence of gravitation.
This alteration in the primitive form of the satellite was only perceptible for a few moments.
The distance of the projectile from the moon diminished very rapidly under its speed, though that was much less than its initial velocity-but eight or nine times greater than that which propels our express trains.
The oblique course of the projectile, from its very obliquity, gave Michel Ardan some hopes of striking the lunar disc at some point or other.
He could not think that they would never reach it.
No! he could not believe it; and this opinion he often repeated.
But Barbicane, who was a better judge, always answered him with merciless logic. "No, Michel, no!
We can only reach the moon by a fall, and we are not falling.
Such was the _Mappa Selenographica_ of Boeer and Moedler which Barbicane consulted.
This northern hemisphere presented vast plains, dotted with isolated mountains. At midnight the moon was full.
At that precise moment the travelers should have alighted upon it, if the mischievous meteor had not diverted their course.
The orb was exactly in the condition determined by the Cambridge Observatory.
It was mathematically at its perigee, and at the zenith of the twenty-eighth parallel.
An observer placed at the bottom of the enormous Columbiad, pointed perpendicularly to the horizon, would have framed the moon in the mouth of the gun.
A straight line drawn through the axis of the piece would have passed through the center of the orb of night.
It is needless to say, that during the night of the 5th-6th of December, the travelers took not an instant's rest.
Could they close their eyes when so near this new world?
All their feelings were concentrated in one single thought:-See! Representatives of the earth, of humanity, past and present, all centered in them!
It is through their eyes that the human race look at these lunar regions, and penetrate the secrets of their satellite!
A strange emotion filled their hearts as they went from one window to the other.
Their observations, reproduced by Barbicane, were rigidly determined.
To take them, they had glasses; to correct them, maps. As regards the optical instruments at their disposal, they had excellent marine glasses specially constructed for this journey.
They possessed magnifying powers of 100.
They would thus have brought the moon to within a distance (apparent) of less than 2,000 leagues from the earth.
Contrary to the arrangement followed for that of the Earth and Mars, the continents occupy more particularly the southern hemisphere of the lunar globe.
These continents do not show such decided, clear, and regular boundary lines as South America, Africa, and the Indian peninsula.
Their angular, capricious, and deeply indented coasts are rich in gulfs and peninsulas.
They remind one of the confusion in the islands of the Sound, where the land is excessively indented.
Involuntarily the names of Naxos, Tenedos, and Carpathos, rise before the mind, and we seek vainly for Ulysses' vessel or the "clipper" of the Argonauts.
So at least it was in Michel Ardan's eyes.
To him it was a Grecian archipelago that he saw on the map.
Not only their formation, but their situation and aspect remind one of the terrestrial oceans; but again, as on earth, these seas occupy the greater portion of the globe.
But in point of fact, these are not liquid spaces, but plains, the nature of which the travelers hoped soon to determine.
Astronomers, we must allow, have graced these pretended seas with at least odd names, which science has respected up to the present time.
Michel Ardan was right when he compared this map to a "Tendre card," got up by a Scudary or a Cyrano de Bergerac.
Barbicane and Nicholl looked upon the lunar map from a very different point of view to that of their fantastic friend. Nevertheless, their fantastic friend was a little in the right.
Judge for yourselves. In the left hemisphere stretches the "Sea of Clouds," where human reason is so often shipwrecked.
Not far off lies the "Sea of Rains," fed by all the fever of existence.
Near this is the "Sea of Storms," where man is ever fighting against his passions, which too often gain the victory.
What a singular division of the moon's two hemispheres, joined to one another like man and woman, and forming that sphere of life carried into space!
And was not the fantastic Michel right in thus interpreting the fancies of the ancient astronomers?
But while his imagination thus roved over "the seas," his grave companions were considering things more geographically.
They were learning this new world by heart.
They were measuring angles and diameters. CHAPTER XII. OROGRAPHIC DETAILS The course taken by the projectile, as we have before remarked, was bearing it toward the moon's northern hemisphere.
The travelers were far from the central point which they would have struck, had their course not been subject to an irremediable deviation.
It was past midnight; and Barbicane then estimated the distance at seven hundred and fifty miles, which was a little greater than the length of the lunar radius, and which would diminish as it advanced nearer to the North Pole.
Indeed, by means of glasses, the above-named distance was reduced to little more than fourteen miles.
The telescope of the Rocky Mountains brought the moon much nearer; but the terrestrial atmosphere singularly lessened its power.
Nevertheless, let us proceed as if our work would one day by useful to our fellow-men.
Let us keep our minds free from every other consideration.
We are astronomers; and this projectile is a room in the Cambridge University, carried into space.
We must here make one important remark with regard to the map by which they were taking observations.
If the map were turned upside down, showing the moon as we see her, the east would be to the left, and the west to the right, contrary to that which exists on terrestrial maps.
The following is the reason of this anomaly.
Observers in the northern hemisphere (say in Europe) see the moon in the south-according to them.
When they take observations, they turn their backs to the north, the reverse position to that which they occupy when they study a terrestrial map.
As they turn their backs to the north, the east is on their left, and the west to their right.
We are too far off to recognize its nature.
Are these plains composed of arid sand, as the first astronomer maintained?
Or are they nothing but immense forests, according to M.
Warren de la Rue's opinion, who gives the moon an atmosphere, though a very low and a very dense one?
That we shall know by and by.
We must affirm nothing until we are in a position to do so." This "Sea of Clouds" is rather doubtfully marked out upon the maps.
It is supposed that these vast plains are strewn with blocks of lava from the neighboring volcanoes on its right, Ptolemy, Purbach, Arzachel.
But the projectile was advancing, and sensibly nearing it.
It rises isolated like a gigantic lighthouse on that portion of the "Sea of Clouds," which is bounded by the "Sea of Tempests," thus lighting by its splendid rays two oceans at a time.
It was a sight without an equal, those long luminous trains, so dazzling in the full moon, and which, passing the boundary chain on the north, extends to the "Sea of Rains.
At one o'clock of the terrestrial morning, the projectile, like a balloon borne into space, overlooked the top of this superb mount. Barbicane could recognize perfectly its chief features.
Copernicus is comprised in the series of ringed mountains of the first order, in the division of great circles.
Like Kepler and Aristarchus, which overlook the "Ocean of Tempests," sometimes it appeared like a brilliant point through the cloudy light, and was taken for a volcano in activity.
But it is only an extinct one-like all on that side of the moon.
Its circumference showed a diameter of about twenty-two leagues.
If we were nearer, we should see the cones bristling on the inside, which in former times were so many fiery mouths.
A curious arrangement, and one without an exception on the lunar disc, is that the interior surface of these circles is the reverse of the exterior, and contrary to the form taken by terrestrial craters.
The circumference of Copernicus formed almost a perfect circle, and its steep escarpments were clearly defined.
They could even distinguish a second ringed enclosure.
Around spread a grayish plain, of a wild aspect, on which every relief was marked in yellow.
At the bottom of the circle, as if enclosed in a jewel case, sparkled for one instant two or three eruptive cones, like enormous dazzling gems.
Toward the north, on the contrary, till where it was bounded by the "Sea of Storms," it resembled a liquid surface agitated by a storm, of which the hills and hollows formed a succession of waves suddenly congealed.
What was the opinion?" "He thought that these rays might be streams of cooled lava which shone when the sun beat straight upon them.
It may be so; but nothing can be less certain.
There wants but the hook to pull them out one by one." "Do be serious," said Barbicane. "Well, let us be serious," replied Michel quietly; "and instead of spelikans, let us put bones.
This plain, would then be nothing but an immense cemetery, on which would repose the mortal remains of thousands of extinct generations.
That will teach me to reason with savants." But the projectile continued to advance with almost uniform speed around the lunar disc.
The travelers, we may easily imagine, did not dream of taking a moment's rest.
Every minute changed the landscape which fled from beneath their gaze.
This mountain separated the Apennines from the Carpathians.
In the lunar orography they have discerned some chains of mountains, which are chiefly distributed over the northern hemisphere.
Some, however, occupy certain portions of the southern hemisphere also. About two o'clock in the morning Barbicane found that they were above the twentieth lunar parallel.
The distance of the projectile from the moon was not more than six hundred miles.
It still seemed impossible, however, that it could ever touch any part of the disc.
Its motive speed, comparatively so moderate, was inexplicable to President Barbicane.
At that distance from the moon it must have been considerable, to enable it to bear up against her attraction.
Here was a phenomenon the cause of which escaped them again.
Besides, time failed them to investigate the cause.
All lunar relief was defiling under the eyes of the travelers, and they would not lose a single detail. Under the glasses the disc appeared at the distance of five miles.
What would an aeronaut, borne to this distance from the earth, distinguish on its surface?
We cannot say, since the greatest ascension has not been more than 25,000 feet. This, however, is an exact description of what Barbicane and his companions saw at this height.
Large patches of different colors appeared on the disc.
Selenographers are not agreed upon the nature of these colors.
There are several, and rather vividly marked.
According to him, the color common to the vast plains known by the name of "seas" is a dark gray mixed with green and brown.
Some of the large craters present the same appearance.
Barbicane knew this opinion of the German selenographer, an opinion shared by Boeer and Moedler.
Now, were these shades of green, belonging to tropical vegetation, kept up by a low dense atmosphere?
He could not yet say. Farther on, he noticed a reddish tint, quite defined.
He noticed that their borders were formed of steep declivities; they were long parallel ramparts, and with some small amount of imagination he might have admitted the existence of long lines of fortifications, raised by Selenite engineers.
The first observations had not discovered these rifts.
It was Schroeter who in 1789 first drew attention to them.
Others followed who studied them, as Pastorff, Gruithuysen, Boeer, and Moedler.
That is a question difficult to solve.
They are certainly anterior to the formation of craters and circles, for several have introduced themselves by breaking through their circular ramparts.
Thus it may be that, contemporary with the later geological epochs, they are due to the expansion of natural forces. But the projectile had now attained the fortieth degree of lunar latitude, at a distance not exceeding 40 miles.
And more, Barbicane found himself carried to a greater distance than the most powerful telescopes had ever done before, either that of Lord Rosse or that of the Rocky Mountains.
He was, therefore, under extremely favorable conditions for solving that great question of the habitability of the moon; but the solution still escaped him; he could distinguish nothing but desert beds, immense plains, and toward the north, arid mountains.
Not a work betrayed the hand of man; not a ruin marked his course; not a group of animals was to be seen indicating life, even in an inferior degree.
In no part was there life, in no part was there an appearance of vegetation.
To the left ran a line of mountains capriciously shaped, lying in the full light.
Its circuit is forty-seven miles long and thirty-two broad. Barbicane regretted that they were not passing directly above this vast opening.
There was an abyss to fathom, perhaps some mysterious phenomenon to surprise; but the projectile's course could not be altered.
They could not guide a balloon, still less a projectile, when once enclosed within its walls.
Toward five in the morning the northern limits of the "Sea of Rains" was at length passed.
The mounts of Condamine and Fontenelle remained-one on the right, the other on the left.
The glasses brought them to within two miles, less than that separating the summit of Mont Blanc from the level of the sea.
The whole region was bristling with spikes and circles.
Landscapes were presented to the eye under very different conditions from those on the earth, and also very inferior to them. The moon having no atmosphere, the consequences arising from the absence of this gaseous envelope have already been shown.
Hence the harshness of contrasts, which only admit of two colors, black and white.
If a Selenite were to shade his eyes from the sun's rays, the sky would seem absolutely black, and the stars would shine to him as on the darkest night.
Judge of the impression produced on Barbicane and his three friends by this strange scene!
They could no longer grasp the respective distances of the different plains.
It seemed as if the moon might be touched by the hand!
A very useless attempt; for if the projectile could not attain any point whatever of the satellite, Michel, carried along by its motion, could not attain it either. At that moment, at six o'clock, the lunar pole appeared.
The disc only presented to the travelers' gaze one half brilliantly lit up, while the other disappeared in the darkness.
Some seconds had sufficed to plunge it into the absolute darkness of space.
The transition was so sudden, without shade, without gradation of light, without attenuation of the luminous waves, that the orb seemed to have been extinguished by a powerful blow. "Melted, disappeared!
Michel Ardan exclaimed, aghast. Indeed, there was neither reflection nor shadow.
Nothing more was to be seen of that disc, formerly so dazzling.
The darkness was complete. and rendered even more so by the rays from the stars.
The projectile, immerged in the conical shadow of the satellite, experienced the action of the solar rays no more than any of its invisible points. In the interior, the obscurity was complete.
They could not see each other.
Hence the necessity of dispelling the darkness.
To be more just, it is the fault of that unfortunate meteor which has so deplorably altered our first direction." "Well," replied Michel Ardan, "as the matter is settled, let us have breakfast.
After a whole night of watching it is fair to build ourselves up a little." This proposal meeting with no contradiction, Michel prepared the repast in a few minutes.
But they ate for eating's sake, they drank without toasts, without hurrahs.
The bold travelers being borne away into gloomy space, without their accustomed _cortege_ of rays, felt a vague uneasiness in their hearts.
The "strange" shadow so dear to Victor Hugo's pen bound them on all sides.
In a word she has no moon (applying this designation to our globe) but on one side of her disc.
The latter, as you see, have dark nights of 354 hours, without one single ray to break the darkness.
The other, on the contrary, when the sun which has given its light for fifteen days sinks below the horizon, see a splendid orb rise on the opposite horizon.
But the invisible face is still more searched by the heat than the visible face.
The distance separating it from the radiant orb is then increased in round numbers to 400,000 miles, and the heat which she receives must be a little less." "Very well said!" exclaimed Barbicane.
I like the light." "Unless, by any chance," answered Nicholl, "the atmosphere should be condensed on the other side, as certain astronomers pretend." "That would be a consideration," said Michel. Breakfast over, the observers returned to their post.
They tried to see through the darkened scuttles by extinguishing all light in the projectile; but not a luminous spark made its way through the darkness. One inexplicable fact preoccupied Barbicane.
Why, having passed within such a short distance of the moon-about twenty-five miles only-why the projectile had not fallen?
If its speed had been enormous, he could have understood that the fall would not have taken place; but, with a relatively moderate speed, that resistance to the moon's attraction could not be explained.
Was the projectile under some foreign influence?
Did some kind of body retain it in the ether?
It was quite evident that it could never reach any point of the moon.
Was it going farther from, or nearing, the disc?
Was it being borne in that profound darkness through the infinity of space?
How could they learn, how calculate, in the midst of this night?
All these questions made Barbicane uneasy, but he could not solve them. Certainly, the invisible orb was _there_, perhaps only some few miles off; but neither he nor his companions could see it.
If there was any noise on its surface, they could not hear it.
Air, that medium of sound, was wanting to transmit the groanings of that moon which the Arabic legends call "a man already half granite, and still breathing." One must allow that that was enough to aggravate the most patient observers.
It was just that unknown hemisphere which was stealing from their sight.
That face which fifteen days sooner, or fifteen days later, had been, or would be, splendidly illuminated by the solar rays, was then being lost in utter darkness.
In fifteen days where would the projectile be?
Where would the chances of conflicting attractions have drawn it to?
The disappointment of the travelers in the midst of this utter darkness may be imagined.
All observation of the lunar disc was impossible.
Its diamonds set in the heavenly vault sparkled magnificently.
Imagination loses itself in this sublime Infinity, amid which the projectile was gravitating, like a new star created by the hand of man.
From a natural cause, these constellations shone with a soft luster; they did not twinkle, for there was no atmosphere which, by the intervention of its layers unequally dense and of different degrees of humidity, produces this scintillation.
This was an intense cold, which soon covered the inside of the glass of the scuttles with a thick coating of ice.
The sun was no longer warming the projectile with its direct rays, and thus it was losing the heat stored up in its walls by degrees.
This heat was rapidly evaporating into space by radiation, and a considerably lower temperature was the result.
The projectile's low temperature was no longer endurable.
What variety we have had, at least in temperature.
Now we are blinded with light and saturated with heat, like the Indians of the Pampas! now plunged into profound darkness, amid the cold, like the Esquimaux of the north pole.
See! the steam of the interior is condensing on the glasses of the scuttles.
Besides, I am not at all certain that the objects we have thrown out are still following us." "Why not?" asked Nicholl. "Because, if we are passing through an atmosphere of the slightest density, these objects will be retarded.
Again, the darkness prevents our seeing if they still float around us.
But in order not to expose ourselves to the loss of our thermometer, we will fasten it, and we can then more easily pull it back again." Barbicane's advice was followed.
Through the scuttle rapidly opened, Nicholl threw out the instrument, which was held by a short cord, so that it might be more easily drawn up.
Pouillet was right and Fourier wrong.
That was the undoubted temperature of the starry space.
They, on the contrary, had no power over their vehicle.
Hence the inclination to let things alone, or as the sailors say, "let her run." Where did they find themselves at this moment, at eight o'clock in the morning of the day called upon the earth the 6th of December?
Very certainly in the neighborhood of the moon, and even near enough for her to look to them like an enormous black screen upon the firmament.
Every point of mark was wanting by which to estimate both the direction and the speed of the projectile. Perhaps it was rapidly leaving the disc, so that it would soon quit the pure shadow.
Have you not seen shooting stars rush through the sky by thousands at certain seasons?" "Yes." "Well, these stars, or rather corpuscles, only shine when they are heated by gliding over the atmospheric layers.
Now, if they enter the atmosphere, they pass at least within forty miles of the earth, but they seldom fall upon it.
The same with our projectile.
With a certain speed it will assume the parabola, and with a greater the hyperbola." "I like those grand words," exclaimed Michel Ardan; "one knows directly what they mean.
What I particularly like in your definition of the hyperbola (I was going to say hyperblague) is that it is still more obscure than the word you pretend to define." Nicholl and Barbicane cared little for Michel Ardan's fun.
They were deep in a scientific discussion.
What curve would the projectile follow? was their hobby.
One maintained the hyperbola, the other the parabola.
They gave each other reasons bristling with _x_.
Their arguments were couched in language which made Michel jump.
I want to understand the only interesting question in the whole affair.
We shall follow one or the other of these curves?
They had just been creating "art for art's sake.
Never had so idle a question been raised at such an inopportune moment.
The sinister truth remained that, whether hyperbolically or parabolically borne away, the projectile would never again meet either the earth or the moon. What would become of these bold travelers in the immediate future?
If they did not die of hunger, if they did not die of thirst, in some days, when the gas failed, they would die from want of air, unless the cold had killed them first.
Still, important as it was to economize the gas, the excessive lowness of the surrounding temperature obliged them to consume a certain quantity.
Strictly speaking, they could do without its _light_, but not without its _heat_.
This cloudiness had to be dispersed continually.
In any case they might hope to be able to discover some phenomena of the highest interest. But up to this time the disc remained dumb and dark.
I allow that the moon, immersed in the sun's rays, will not be visible during the transit, but instead we should see the earth, which would be full.
And what is more, if we were drawn round the moon, as at this moment, we should at least have the advantage of seeing the invisible part of her disc magnificently lit." "Well said, Nicholl," replied Michel Ardan.
What do you think, Barbicane?" "I think this," answered the grave president: "If ever we begin this journey again, we shall start at the same time and under the same conditions.
Suppose we had attained our end, would it not have been better to have found continents in broad daylight than a country plunged in utter darkness?
Would not our first installation have been made under better circumstances?
As to the invisible side, we could have visited it in our exploring expeditions on the lunar globe.
So that the time of the full moon was well chosen.
But we ought to have arrived at the end; and in order to have so arrived, we ought to have suffered no deviation on the road." "I have nothing to say to that," answered Michel Ardan.
Here is, however, a good opportunity lost of observing the other side of the moon." But the projectile was now describing in the shadow that incalculable course which no sight-mark would allow them to ascertain.
Had its direction been altered, either by the influence of the lunar attraction, or by the action of some unknown star?
The attraction, that is to say the weight, had brought about this alteration.
The heaviest part of the projectile inclined toward the invisible disc as if it would fall upon it. Was it falling?
Were the travelers attaining that much desired end?
This point could not be confounded with a star.
That world is not quite extinguished." "Yes, an eruption," replied Barbicane, who was carefully studying the phenomenon through his night glass.
What should it be, if not a volcano?" "But, then," said Michel Ardan, "in order to maintain that combustion, there must be air.
So the atmosphere does surround that part of the moon." "Perhaps so," replied Barbicane, "but not necessarily. The volcano, by the decomposition of certain substances, can provide its own oxygen, and thus throw flames into space.
It seems to me that the deflagration, by the intense brilliancy of the substances in combustion, is produced in pure oxygen.
Thus he could not determine its nature exactly.
Half an hour after being sighted, this luminous point had disappeared behind the dark horizon; but the verification of this phenomenon was of considerable consequence in their selenographic studies.
He forgot himself in a deep reverie in which the mysterious destiny of the lunar world was uppermost.
He was seeking to combine together the facts observed up to that time, when a new incident recalled him briskly to reality.
This incident was more than a cosmical phenomenon; it was a threatened danger, the consequence of which might be disastrous in the extreme. Suddenly, in the midst of the ether, in the profound darkness, an enormous mass appeared.
It was like a moon, but an incandescent moon whose brilliancy was all the more intolerable as it cut sharply on the frightful darkness of space.
This mass, of a circular form, threw a light which filled the projectile.
The forms of Barbicane, Nicholl, and Michel Ardan, bathed in its white sheets, assumed that livid spectral appearance which physicians produce with the fictitious light of alcohol impregnated with salt. "By Jove!" cried Michel Ardan, "we are hideous.
It advanced at a speed of about one mile and a half per second.
It cut the projectile's path and must reach it in some minutes. As it approached it grew to enormous proportions. Imagine, if possible, the situation of the travelers!
It is impossible to describe it.
In spite of their courage, their _sang-froid_, their carelessness of danger, they were mute, motionless with stiffened limbs, a prey to frightful terror.
Their projectile, the course of which they could not alter, was rushing straight on this ignited mass, more intense than the open mouth of an oven.
It seemed as though they were being precipitated toward an abyss of fire. Barbicane had seized the hands of his two companions, and all three looked through their half-open eyelids upon that asteroid heated to a white heat.
What pen can describe it?
What palette is rich enough in colors to reproduce so magnificent a spectacle? It was like the opening of a crater, like the scattering of an immense conflagration.
Thousands of luminous fragments lit up and irradiated space with their fires.
Every size, every color, was there intermingled.
There were rays of yellow and pale yellow, red, green, gray-a crown of fireworks of all colors.
Its left scuttle was even cracked by a violent shock.
What could they distinguish at a distance which they could not estimate?
Could they give a scientific assent to an observation so superficially obtained?
Who would have thought of such an encounter with meteors?
These erring bodies might create serious perils for the travelers.
They were to them so many sandbanks upon that sea of ether which, less fortunate than sailors, they could not escape.
But did these adventurers complain of space?
No, not since nature had given them the splendid sight of a cosmical meteor bursting from expansion, since this inimitable firework, which no Ruggieri could imitate, had lit up for some seconds the invisible glory of the moon.
In that flash, continents, seas, and forests had become visible to them.
Did an atmosphere, then, bring to this unknown face its life-giving atoms?
Questions still insoluble, and forever closed against human curiousity! It was then half-past three in the afternoon.
The projectile was following its curvilinear direction round the moon.
Had its course again been altered by the meteor?
It was to be feared so.
But the projectile must describe a curve unalterably determined by the laws of mechanical reasoning.
Barbicane was inclined to believe that this curve would be rather a parabola than a hyperbola.
Whatever had been its speed (and it could not have been insignificant), its period of occultation continued.
Each one watched for an unexpected fact, which might throw some new light on their uranographic studies.
They looked like a succession of sharp points lengthened into a tremulous line.
Such appeared the terminal line of the moon when in one of her octants. They could not be mistaken.
It was no longer a simple meteor.
This luminous ridge had neither color nor motion.
Nor was it a volcano in eruption.
We are evidently nearing the south pole." "After having passed the north pole," replied Michel.
We have made the circuit of our satellite, then?" "Yes, my good Michel." "Then, no more hyperbolas, no more parabolas, no more open curves to fear?" "No, but a closed curve." "Which is called-" "An ellipse.
The elliptical curve was being rigidly carried out. At this moment the travelers once more entered the blessed rays of the sun. They saw once more those stars which move slowly from east to west.
The radiant orb was saluted by a triple hurrah.
With its light it also sent heat, which soon pierced the metal walls.
The glass resumed its accustomed appearance.
The layers of ice melted as if by enchantment; and immediately, for economy's sake, the gas was put out, the air apparatus alone consuming its usual quantity. "Ah!" said Nicholl, "these rays of heat are good.
From this point, had the earth been at the full, Barbicane and his companions could have seen it, but immersed in the sun's irradiation she was quite invisible.
Another spectacle attracted their attention, that of the southern part of the moon, brought by the glasses to within 450 yards.
They did not again leave the scuttles, and noted every detail of this fantastical continent. Mounts Doerful and Leibnitz formed two separate groups very near the south pole.
With more certainty than the illustrious Roman astronomer, Barbicane was enabled to recognize their nature. "They are snow," he exclaimed. "Snow?" repeated Nicholl. "Yes, Nicholl, snow; the surface of which is deeply frozen.
See how they reflect the luminous rays.
Cooled lava would never give out such intense reflection.
There must then be water, there must be air on the moon.
As little as you please, but the fact can no longer be contested.
No, it could not be.
These two chains are the only ones met with in this region of circles.
But no trace of vegetation, no appearance of cities; nothing but stratification, beds of lava, overflowings polished like immense mirrors, reflecting the sun's rays with overpowering brilliancy.
Nothing belonging to a _living_ world-everything to a dead world, where avalanches, rolling from the summits of the mountains, would disperse noiselessly at the bottom of the abyss, retaining the motion, but wanting the sound.
In any case it was the image of death, without its being possible even to say that life had ever existed there. Michel Ardan, however, thought he recognized a heap of ruins, to which he drew Barbicane's attention.
This heap of stones, rather regularly placed, represented a vast fortress, overlooking a long rift, which in former days had served as a bed to the rivers of prehistorical times.
Not far from that, rose to a height of 17,400 feet the annular mountain of Short, equal to the Asiatic Caucasus.
Michel Ardan, with his accustomed ardor, maintained "the evidences" of his fortress.
He distinguished all this, but with so much imagination in his glance, and through glasses so fantastical, that we must mistrust his observation.
But who could affirm, who would dare to say, that the amiable fellow did not really see that which his two companions would not see? Moments were too precious to be sacrificed in idle discussion.
The selenite city, whether imaginary or not, had already disappeared afar off.
The distance of the projectile from the lunar disc was on the increase, and the details of the soil were being lost in a confused jumble.
The reliefs, the circles, the craters, and the plains alone remained, and still showed their boundary lines distinctly.
At this moment, to the left, lay extended one of the finest circles of lunar orography, one of the curiosities of this continent.
This enormous hole was beyond all measurement, and formed a gloomy abyss, the bottom of which the sun's rays could never reach. There, according to Humboldt, reigns utter darkness, which the light of the sun and the earth cannot break.
Mythologists could well have made it the mouth of hell. "Newton," said Barbicane, "is the most perfect type of these annular mountains, of which the earth possesses no sample.
Its height is estimated at 22,950 feet.
The travelers, at a distance of twenty-four miles (reduced to four by their glasses) could admire this vast crater in its entirety. "Terrestrial volcanoes," said Barbicane, "are but mole-hills compared with those of the moon.
Measuring the old craters formed by the first eruptions of Vesuvius and Etna, we find them little more than three miles in breadth.
In France the circle of Cantal measures six miles across; at Ceyland the circle of the island is forty miles, which is considered the largest on the globe.
What are these diameters against that of Clavius, which we overlook at this moment?" "What is its breadth?" asked Nicholl. "It is 150 miles," replied Barbicane.
This moon is nothing more than a thin carcase of fireworks, whose squibs, rockets, serpents, and suns, after a superb brilliancy, have left but sadly broken cases.
Who can say the cause, the reason, the motive force of these cataclysms?" Barbicane was not listening to Michel Ardan; he was contemplating these ramparts of Clavius, formed by large mountains spread over several miles.
At the bottom of the immense cavity burrowed hundreds of small extinguished craters, riddling the soil like a colander, and overlooked by a peak 15,000 feet high. Around the plain appeared desolate.
Nothing so arid as these reliefs, nothing so sad as these ruins of mountains, and (if we may so express ourselves) these fragments of peaks and mountains which strewed the soil.
The satellite seemed to have burst at this spot. The projectile was still advancing, and this movement did not subside. Circles, craters, and uprooted mountains succeeded each other incessantly.
No more plains; no more seas.
A never ending Switzerland and Norway.
Michel Ardan used every metaphor that his imagination could supply to designate it by.
To him this Tycho was a focus of light, a center of irradiation, a crater vomiting rays.
Imagine, then, its intensity to the eye of observers placed at a distance of only fifty miles!
Seen through this pure ether, its brilliancy was so intolerable that Barbicane and his friends were obliged to blacken their glasses with the gas smoke before they could bear the splendor.
Then silent, scarcely uttering an interjection of admiration, they gazed, they contemplated.
Its center is occupied by a crater fifty miles broad.
It assumes a slightly elliptical form, and is surrounded by an enclosure of annular ramparts, which on the east and west overlook the outer plain from a height of 15,000 feet.
Indeed, it is during the full moon that Tycho is seen in all its splendor.
Then all shadows disappear, the foreshortening of perspective disappears, and all proofs become white-a disagreeable fact: for this strange region would have been marvelous if reproduced with photographic exactness.
It is but a group of hollows, craters, circles, a network of crests; then, as far as the eye could see, a whole volcanic network cast upon this encrusted soil.
One can then understand that the bubbles of this central eruption have kept their first form.
They appeared to be higher by 300 or 400 feet to the west than to the east.
No system of terrestrial encampment could equal these natural fortifications.
A town built at the bottom of this circular cavity would have been utterly inaccessible. Inaccessible and wonderfully extended over this soil covered with picturesque projections!
Indeed, nature had not left the bottom of this crater flat and empty.
It possessed its own peculiar orography, a mountainous system, making it a world in itself.
The travelers could distinguish clearly cones, central hills, remarkable positions of the soil, naturally placed to receive the _chefs-d'oeuvre_ of Selenite architecture.
There was marked out the place for a temple, here the ground of a forum, on this spot the plan of a palace, in another the plateau for a citadel; the whole overlooked by a central mountain of 1,500 feet.
A vast circle, in which ancient Rome could have been held in its entirety ten times over. "Ah!" exclaimed Michel Ardan, enthusiastic at the sight; "what a grand town might be constructed within that ring of mountains!
A quiet city, a peaceful refuge, beyond all human misery.
How calm and isolated those misanthropes, those haters of humanity might live there, and all who have a distaste for social life!" "All!
What geological phenomenon had designed these ardent beams?
This question occupied Barbicane's mind. Under his eyes ran in all directions luminous furrows, raised at the edges and concave in the center, some twelve miles, others thirty miles broad.
These brilliant trains extended in some places to within 600 miles of Tycho, and seemed to cover, particularly toward the east, the northeast and the north, the half of the southern hemisphere.
One of these jets extended as far as the circle of Neander, situated on the 40th meridian.
Another, by a slight curve, furrowed the "Sea of Nectar," breaking against the chain of Pyrenees, after a circuit of 800 miles.
Others, toward the west, covered the "Sea of Clouds" and the "Sea of Humors" with a luminous network.
What was the origin of these sparkling rays, which shone on the plains as well as on the reliefs, at whatever height they might be?
All started from a common center, the crater of Tycho.
Herschel attributed their brilliancy to currents of lava congealed by the cold; an opinion, however, which has not been generally adopted.
It is enough to say that it is a vast star, similar to that produced by a ball or a stone thrown at a square of glass!" "Well!" replied Barbicane, smiling.
My brave Michel, your explanation is not bad; but your comet is useless.
The shock which produced that rent must have some from the inside of the star.
Their projectile, saturated with luminous gleams in the double irradiation of sun and moon, must have appeared like an incandescent globe.
They had passed suddenly from excessive cold to intense heat.
Nature was thus preparing them to become Selenites. Become Selenites!
That idea brought up once more the question of the habitability of the moon.
After what they had seen, could the travelers solve it?
Would they decide for or against it?
I ask it to be put differently." "Put it your own way," replied Michel. "Here it is," continued Barbicane.
The problem is a double one, and requires a double solution.
Has the moon ever been _inhabitable_?" "Good!" replied Nicholl.
First let us see whether the moon is habitable." "To tell the truth, I know nothing about it," answered Michel. "And I answer in the negative," continued Barbicane.
The presence of any kind of life would have been betrayed by its attendant marks, such as divers buildings, and even by ruins.
And what have we seen?
Everywhere and always the geological works of nature, never the work of man.
These traces are nowhere visible.
The actual state of this cracked, twisted, and burst disc abundantly proves this.
The moon and the earth were nothing but gaseous masses originally.
These gases have passed into a liquid state under different influences, and the solid masses have been formed later.
The atmosphere enveloped the disc with a fluid mantle; vapor deposited itself in the shape of clouds; this natural screen tempered the ardor of the solar rays, and retained the nocturnal radiation.
Light, like heat, can diffuse itself in the air; hence an equality between the influences which no longer exists, now that atmosphere has almost entirely disappeared.
Barbicane sought to restrain them. "Those speculations are too high," said he; "problems utterly insoluble.
Do not let us enter upon them.
By degrees the consequences of these phenomena showed themselves in the disappearance of organized beings, and by the disappearance of vegetation.
Soon the atmosphere was rarefied, probably withdrawn by terrestrial attraction; then aerial departure of respirable air, and disappearance of water by means of evaporation.
And according to certain calculations, this mean temperature will after a period of 400,000 years, be brought down to zero!" "Four hundred thousand years!" exclaimed Michel.
I breathe again. Really I was frightened to hear you; I imagined that we had not more than 50,000 years to live." Barbicane and Nicholl could not help laughing at their companion's uneasiness.
Then Nicholl, who wished to end the discussion, put the second question, which had just been considered again. "Has the moon been inhabited?" he asked. The answer was unanimously in the affirmative.
That was a difficult point. In watching the course of the projectile they could see that on leaving the moon it followed a course analogous to that traced in approaching her.
So that is the fate in store for us?" Neither Barbicane nor Nicholl answered. "You do not answer," continued Michel impatiently. "There is nothing to answer," said Nicholl. "Is there nothing to try?" "No," answered Barbicane.
Do you pretend to fight against the impossible?" "Why not?
If artillerymen are not masters of their projectile they are not artillerymen.
If the projectile is to command the gunner, we had better ram the gunner into the gun.
My faith! fine savants! who do not know what is to become of us after inducing me-" "Inducing you!" cried Barbicane and Nicholl.
What do you mean by that?" "No recrimination," said Michel.
Certainly Michel had none but good ideas. They breakfasted then at two in the morning; the hour mattered little. Michel served his usual repast, crowned by a glorious bottle drawn from his private cellar.
If ideas did not crowd on their brains, we must despair of the Chambertin of 1853.
The repast finished, observation began again.
Around the projectile, at an invariable distance, were the objects which had been thrown out.
On the disc, the plains were already returning to the dark tint which is seen from the earth.
Having admitted that the projectile was describing an orbit around the moon, this orbit must necessarily be elliptical; science proves that it must be so.
No motive body circulating round an attracting body fails in this law.
Every orbit described in space is elliptical.
And why should the projectile of the Gun Club escape this natural arrangement?
In elliptical orbits, the attracting body always occupies one of the foci; so that at one moment the satellite is nearer, and at another farther from the orb around which it gravitates.
When the earth is nearest the sun she is in her perihelion; and in her aphelion at the farthest point.
Speaking of the moon, she is nearest to the earth in her perigee, and farthest from it in her apogee.
In the latter case, the projectile would attain its maximum of speed; and in the former its minimum.
By some inexplicable influence, the projectile is turning its base toward the earth.
What we did not do, what we could not do on our first passage at the dead point, because the projectile was then endowed with too great a speed." "Very well reasoned," said Nicholl. "Let us wait patiently," continued Barbicane.
Putting every chance on our side, and after having so much despaired, I may say I think we shall gain our end." This conclusion was a signal for Michel Ardan's hips and hurrahs.
And none of the audacious boobies remembered the question that they themselves had solved in the negative.
No! the moon is not inhabited; no! the moon is probably not habitable.
And yet they were going to try everything to reach her. One single question remained to be solved.
At what precise moment the projectile would reach the point of equal attraction, on which the travelers must play their last card.
In order to calculate this to within a few seconds, Barbicane had only to refer to his notes, and to reckon the different heights taken on the lunar parallels.
Thus the time necessary to travel over the distance between the dead point and the south pole would be equal to the distance separating the north pole from the dead point.
The hours representing the time traveled over were carefully noted, and the calculation was easy.
Barbicane found that this point would be reached at one in the morning on the night of the 7th-8th of December.
Some hours of sleep will restore our strength." "Never," interrupted Michel. "Well," continued Nicholl, "every one to his taste; I shall go to sleep.
And stretching himself on the divan, he soon snored like a forty-eight pounder. "That Nicholl has a good deal of sense," said Barbicane; "presently I shall follow his example.
However bold the travelers might be, they were greatly impressed by the approach of that moment which would decide all-either precipitate their fall on to the moon, or forever chain them in an immutable orbit.
They saw once more their friends of the Gun Club, and the dearest of all, J.
At that moment, the honorable secretary must be filling his post on the Rocky Mountains.
If he could see the projectile through the glass of his gigantic telescope, what would he think?
After seeing it disappear behind the moon's south pole, he would see them reappear by the north pole!
They must therefore be a satellite of a satellite!
Maston given this unexpected news to the world?
Was this the _denouement_ of this great enterprise? But the day passed without incident.
The terrestrial midnight arrived. The 8th of December was beginning.
One hour more, and the point of equal attraction would be reached.
What speed would then animate the projectile?
They could not estimate it.
But no error could vitiate Barbicane's calculations.
At one in the morning this speed ought to be and would be _nil_. Besides, another phenomenon would mark the projectile's stopping-point on the neutral line.
At that spot the two attractions, lunar and terrestrial, would be annulled.
Objects would "weigh" no more.
This singular fact, which had surprised Barbicane and his companions so much in going, would be repeated on their return under the very same conditions.
At this precise moment they must act. Already the projectile's conical top was sensibly turned toward the lunar disc, presented in such a way as to utilize the whole of the recoil produced by the pressure of the rocket apparatus.
The chances were in favor of the travelers.
The travelers felt in themselves the entire disappearance of it.
They were very near the neutral point, if they did not touch it. "One o'clock," said Barbicane. Michel Ardan applied the lighted match to a train in communication with the rockets.
No detonation was heard in the inside, for there was no air.
But, through the scuttles, Barbicane saw a prolonged smoke, the flames of which were immediately extinguished. The projectile sustained a certain shock, which was sensibly felt in the interior. The three friends looked and listened without speaking, and scarcely breathing.
The speed retained had borne the projectile beyond the dead point.
The explosion of the rockets could not divert its course.
This speed in going had carried it over the neutral line, and in returning had done the same thing.
The laws of physics condemned it _to pass through every point which it had already gone through_.
It was a terrible fall, from a height of 160,000 miles, and no springs to break it.
In the other life the soul will want to know nothing, either of machines or engines!
But who would have thought of finding such a depth so near in shore, and only 200 miles from the American coast?" "Certainly, Bronsfield, there is a great depression," said Captain Blomsberry.
In this spot there is a submarine valley worn by Humboldt's current, which skirts the coast of America as far as the Straits of Magellan." "These great depths," continued the lieutenant, "are not favorable for laying telegraphic cables.
A level bottom, like that supporting the American cable between Valentia and Newfoundland, is much better." "I agree with you, Bronsfield.
Now haul in the sounding line.
It will be the work of some hours.
In that time the engineer can light the furnaces, and we shall be ready to start as soon as you have finished.
On the appearance of the moon, their thoughts turned to that orb which the eyes of a whole hemisphere were contemplating.
I am sure of that, if you tell me so, my young friend," said Lieutenant Bronsfield, smiling. "But," continued another officer, "their arrival cannot be doubted.
The projectile was to reach the moon when full on the 5th at midnight.
We are now at the 11th of December, which makes six days.
And in six times twenty-four hours, without darkness, one would have time to settle comfortably.
Unfortunately direct news from the lunar world is still wanting." "Beg pardon, lieutenant," said the midshipman, "but cannot President Barbicane write?" A burst of laughter greeted this answer. "No letters!" continued the young man quickly.
The postal administration has something to see to there." "Might it not be the telegraphic service that is at fault?" asked one of the officers ironically. "Not necessarily," replied the midshipman, not at all confused.
But it is very easy to set up a graphic communication with the earth." "And how?" "By means of the telescope at Long's Peak.
You know it brings the moon to within four miles of the Rocky Mountains, and that it shows objects on its surface of only nine feet in diameter.
Besides, if the experiment has succeeded (which I do not doubt), they will try it again.
The Columbiad is still sunk in the soil of Florida.
It is now only a question of powder and shot; and every time the moon is at her zenith a cargo of visitors may be sent to her." "It is clear," replied Lieutenant Bronsfield, "that J.
We cannot say what blundering systems were broached, what inconsistent theories advanced by these bold spirits.
Since Barbicane's attempt, nothing seemed impossible to the Americans.
According to the commander's orders, the fires had been lighted, and steam was being got up.
MASTON RECALLED "It is 'they' come back again!" the young midshipman had said, and every one had understood him.
No one doubted but that the meteor was the projectile of the Gun Club.
They must decide upon something to be done immediately.
The more hasty ones were for fishing up the projectile.
A difficult operation, though not an impossible one.
The choice of the port had to be discussed.
Through the capital of the gold country communication would be easy with the heart of the Union.
And in less than two days the Susquehanna, by putting on high pressure, could arrive in that port.
She must therefore start at once. The fires were made up; they could set off immediately.
The course was then given north-northeast, and the corvette, wearing, steered at full steam direct for San Francisco.
It was three in the morning. Four hundred and fifty miles to cross; it was nothing for a good vessel like the Susquehanna.
Send instructions.-BLOMSBERRY, Commander Susquehanna. Five minutes afterward the whole town of San Francisco learned the news.
Before six in the evening the different States of the Union had heard the great catastrophe; and after midnight, by the cable, the whole of Europe knew the result of the great American experiment.
Day and night she must be ready to put to sea. The Cambridge observatory called a special meeting; and, with that composure which distinguishes learned bodies in general, peacefully discussed the scientific bearings of the question.
At the Gun Club there was an explosion.
All the gunners were assembled.
Vice-President the Hon. Wilcome was in the act of reading the premature dispatch, in which J.
Maston's telegram, two parties were formed in the bosom of the Gun Club.
Almost at the same moment in which the Secretary of Marine, the vice-president of the Gun Club, and the sub-director of the Observatory received the dispatch from San Francisco, the Honorable J.
Maston was undergoing the greatest excitement he had ever experienced in his life, an excitement which even the bursting of his pet gun, which had more than once nearly cost him his life, had not caused him.
We know that this gigantic instrument had been set up according to the reflecting system, called by the English "front view.
This arrangement subjected all objects to but one reflection, making the view consequently much clearer; the result was that, when they were taking observation, J.
Maston and his not less impatient companion.
Each minute of the night they thought they saw the projectile once more, and they did not see it.
Hence constant discussions and violent disputes between them, Belfast affirming that the projectile could not be seen, J.
T. Maston maintaining that "it had put his eyes out." "It is the projectile!" repeated J.
Maston. "No," answered Belfast; "it is an avalanche detached from a lunar mountain." "Well, we shall see it to-morrow." "No, we shall not see it any more.
It is carried into space." "Yes!" "No!" And at these moments, when contradictions rained like hail, the well-known irritability of the secretary of the Gun Club constituted a permanent danger for the Honorable Belfast.
It was the commander of the Susquehanna's telegram. Belfast tore the envelope and read, and uttered a cry. "What!" said J.
Maston. "The projectile!" "Well!" "Has fallen to the earth!" Another cry, this time a perfect howl, answered him.
The unfortunate man, imprudently leaning over the metal tube, had disappeared in the immense telescope.
A fall of two hundred and eighty feet!
Belfast, dismayed, rushed to the orifice of the reflector. He breathed.
Maston, caught by his metal hook, was holding on by one of the rings which bound the telescope together, uttering fearful cries. Belfast called.
It must first be invented, then made.
American engineers could not be troubled with such trifles.
No one doubted that they were still living. "Yes," repeated J.
Maston incessantly, whose confidence gained over everybody, "our friends are clever people, and they cannot have fallen like simpletons.
They are alive, quite alive; but we must make haste if we wish to find them so.
Food and water do not trouble me; they have enough for a long while.
But air, air, that is what they will soon want; so quick, quick!" And they did go quick.
They fitted up the Susquehanna for her new destination.
Her powerful machinery was brought to bear upon the hauling-chains.
The aluminum projectile only weighed 19,250 pounds, a weight very inferior to that of the transatlantic cable which had been drawn up under similar conditions.
The only difficulty was in fishing up a cylindro-conical projectile, the walls of which were so smooth as to offer no hold for the hooks.
On that account Engineer Murchison hastened to San Francisco, and had some enormous grappling-irons fixed on an automatic system, which would never let the projectile go if it once succeeded in seizing it in its powerful claws.
Diving-dresses were also prepared, which through this impervious covering allowed the divers to observe the bottom of the sea.
He also had put on board an apparatus of compressed air very cleverly designed.
There were perfect chambers pierced with scuttles, which, with water let into certain compartments, could draw it down into great depths.
These apparatuses were at San Francisco, where they had been used in the construction of a submarine breakwater; and very fortunately it was so, for there was no time to construct any.
And if even it was brought to the surface, how would the travelers have borne the terrible shock which 20,000 feet of water had perhaps not sufficiently broken?
At any rate they must act quickly.
Maston hurried the workmen day and night.
During this time public opinion was excited to the highest pitch.
Telegrams were exchanged incessantly throughout the entire world by means of wires and electric cables.
The saving of Barbicane, Nicholl, and Michel Ardan was an international affair.
Every one who had subscribed to the Gun Club was directly interested in the welfare of the travelers. At length the hauling-chains, the air-chambers, and the automatic grappling-irons were put on board.
Maston, Engineer Murchison, and the delegates of the Gun Club, were already in their cabins.
They had but to start, which they did on the 21st of December, at eight o'clock at night, the corvette meeting with a beautiful sea, a northeasterly wind, and rather sharp cold.
The whole population of San Francisco was gathered on the quay, greatly excited but silent, reserving their hurrahs for the return.
Steam was fully up, and the screw of the Susquehanna carried them briskly out of the bay. It is needless to relate the conversations on board between the officers, sailors, and passengers.
All these men had but one thought. All these hearts beat under the same emotion.
While they were hastening to help them, what were Barbicane and his companions doing?
What had become of them?
Were they able to attempt any bold maneuver to regain their liberty?
The truth is that every attempt must have failed!
Immersed nearly four miles under the ocean, this metal prison defied every effort of its prisoners. On the 23rd inst., at eight in the morning, after a rapid passage, the Susquehanna was due at the fatal spot.
They must wait till twelve to take the reckoning exactly.
The buoy to which the sounding line had been lashed had not yet been recognized. At twelve, Captain Blomsberry, assisted by his officers who superintended the observations, took the reckoning in the presence of the delegates of the Gun Club.
Then there was a moment of anxiety.
Maston. "Shall we begin?" asked Captain Blomsberry. "Without losing a second." Every precaution was taken to keep the corvette almost completely motionless.
Before trying to seize the projectile, Engineer Murchison wanted to find its exact position at the bottom of the ocean.
Maston, the brothers Blomsberry, and Engineer Murchison, without heeding these dangers, took their places in the air-chamber.
The commander, posted on his bridge, superintended the operation, ready to stop or haul in the chains on the slightest signal.
The screw had been shipped, and the whole power of the machinery collected on the capstan would have quickly drawn the apparatus on board.
As to the latter, they forgot themselves, and, glued to the windows of the scuttles, attentively watched the liquid mass through which they were passing. The descent was rapid.
At seventeen minutes past two, J.
Maston and his companions had reached the bottom of the Pacific; but they saw nothing but an arid desert, no longer animated by either fauna or flora.
Here a rock, there a projection from the ground, seemed to be the much-sought-for projectile; but their mistake was soon discovered, and then they were in despair. "But where are they? where are they?" cried J.
And the poor man called loudly upon Nicholl, Barbicane, and Michel Ardan, as if his unfortunate friends could either hear or answer him through such an impenetrable medium!
The search continued under these conditions until the vitiated air compelled the divers to ascend. The hauling in began about six in the evening, and was not ended before midnight. "To-morrow," said J.
Maston, as he set foot on the bridge of the corvette. "Yes," answered Captain Blomsberry. "And on another spot?" "Yes." J.
Maston did not doubt of their final success, but his companions, no longer upheld by the excitement of the first hours, understood all the difficulty of the enterprise.
What seemed easy at San Francisco, seemed here in the wide ocean almost impossible.
The corvette advanced some minutes to westward, and the apparatus, provided with air, bore the same explorers to the depths of the ocean. The whole day passed in fruitless research; the bed of the sea was a desert.
The 25th brought no other result, nor the 26th. It was disheartening.
They thought of those unfortunates shut up in the projectile for twenty-six days.
Perhaps at that moment they were experiencing the first approach of suffocation; that is, if they had escaped the dangers of their fall.
The air was spent, and doubtless with the air all their _morale_. "The air, possibly," answered J.
Maston resolutely, "but their _morale_ never!" On the 28th, after two more days of search, all hope was gone.
This projectile was but an atom in the immensity of the ocean.
They must give up all idea of finding it. But J.
Maston would not hear of going away.
He would not abandon the place without at least discovering the tomb of his friends.
This buoy shone under the rays of the sun as if it had been made of plates of silver. Commander Blomsberry, J.
Maston, and the delegates of the Gun Club were mounted on the bridge, examining this object straying at random on the waves. All looked with feverish anxiety, but in silence.
None dared give expression to the thoughts which came to the minds of all. The corvette approached to within two cables' lengths of the object. A shudder ran through the whole crew.
That flag was the American flag! At this moment a perfect howling was heard; it was the brave J.
T. Maston who had just fallen all in a heap.
All, yes! all these savants had forgotten this fundamental law, namely, that on account of its specific lightness, the projectile, after having been drawn by its fall to the greatest depths of the ocean, must naturally return to the surface.
And now it was floating quietly at the mercy of the waves. The boats were put to sea.
Maston and his friends had rushed into them!
Excitement was at its height!
Every heart beat loudly while they advanced to the projectile.
Living or dead? Living, yes! living, at least unless death had struck Barbicane and his two friends since they had hoisted the flag.
Profound silence reigned on the boats.
One of the scuttles of the projectile was open.
Some pieces of glass remained in the frame, showing that it had been broken.
This scuttle was actually five feet above the water. A boat came alongside, that of J.
If at the beginning of the enterprise they had excited such emotion both in the old and new world, with what enthusiasm would they be received on their return!
The millions of spectators which had beset the peninsula of Florida, would they not rush to meet these sublime adventurers?
Those legions of strangers, hurrying from all parts of the globe toward the American shores, would they leave the Union without having seen Barbicane, Nicholl, and Michel Ardan?
No! and the ardent passion of the public was bound to respond worthily to the greatness of the enterprise.
Human creatures who had left the terrestrial sphere, and returned after this strange voyage into celestial space, could not fail to be received as the prophet Elias would be if he came back to earth.
To see them first, and then to hear them, such was the universal longing. Barbicane, Michel Ardan, Nicholl, and the delegates of the Gun Club, returning without delay to Baltimore, were received with indescribable enthusiasm.
The notes of President Barbicane's voyage were ready to be given to the public.
The New York _Herald_ bought the manuscript at a price not yet known, but which must have been very high.
Indeed, during the publication of "A Journey to the Moon," the sale of this paper amounted to five millions of copies.
Three days after the return of the travelers to the earth, the slightest detail of their expedition was known.
There remained nothing more but to see the heroes of this superhuman enterprise. The expedition of Barbicane and his friends round the moon had enabled them to correct the many admitted theories regarding the terrestrial satellite.
These savants had observed _de visu_, and under particular circumstances.
They knew what systems should be rejected, what retained with regard to the formation of that orb, its origin, its habitability. Its past, present, and future had even given up their last secrets.
Who could advance objections against conscientious observers, who at less than twenty-four miles distance had marked that curious mountain of Tycho, the strangest system of lunar orography?
How answer those savants whose sight had penetrated the abyss of Pluto's circle?
How contradict those bold ones whom the chances of their enterprise had borne over that invisible face of the disc, which no human eye until then had ever seen?
It was now their turn to impose some limit on that selenographic science, which had reconstructed the lunar world as Cuvier did the skeleton of a fossil, and say, "The moon _was_ this, a habitable world, inhabited before the earth.
At certain hours, successively calculated, marked by electric clocks which beat the seconds at the same time, the population were invited to take their places at the banquet tables.
Maston, secretary of the Gun Club.
The carriage was reserved for President Barbicane, Colonel Nicholl, and Michel Ardan.
At the whistle of the driver, amid the hurrahs, and all the admiring vociferations of the American language, the train left the platform of Baltimore.
It traveled at a speed of one hundred and sixty miles in the hour.
Will direct communication with the moon ever be established?
Will they ever lay the foundation of a traveling service through the solar world?
Will they go from one planet to another, from Jupiter to Mercury, and after awhile from one star to another, from the Polar to Sirius?
Will this means of locomotion allow us to visit those suns which swarm in the firmament? To such questions no answer can be given.
President, Barbicane; vice-president, Captain Nicholl; secretary, J.
For example, page 207 has "thirteenth" where "thirtieth" would be more appropriate.
Some of the densities and volumes and masses don't match up.
The business with the wrong exhaust velocity of the gun is also a bit confusing.
The dates and times aren't quite consistent throughout, although they are close enough that Verne must have been working from a time-line.
For example, I think he has the time for the fall back to earth exactly matching the time for the trip out.
There are also inconsistent spellings, for example "aluminum" and "aluminium".
I concentrated instead on producing an accurate rendition of the text.
However, if a French speaker can find a French edition, it might be nice to see if the translators introduced errors.
The measurements seem to have been converted from metric without regard for significant figures. Occasional conversions are simply omitted, with "feet" inserted for "meters" without fixing the numbers.
These might be safely recomputed without doing violence to the spirit of the original work.
Whether one should standardize the spelling of "aluminium" I don't know. "Aluminium" has a certain charm.
I don't know what American or English usage was at the time.
We might consider converting all the temperatures to Fahrenheit.
I suggest removing the page numbers, undoing all the hyphenation, and repackaging the lines at a length of (up to) 72 characters, with only occasional word breaks. Page #s and a full reformating has been done.
Line widow/orphans have been painstakingly removed.
I think this was the first engineering proposal for space travel, using physics instead of magic.
Verne deserves much of the credit for inspiring the early rocket pioneers, and ultimately today's space program.
I've tried to get ' and ' (as accents) right. I have used : as an accent marker for umlaut. All are removed. I've used ' and ' to enclose (recursive) quotes.
Do you understand this feeling?
This breeze, which has travelled from the regions towards which I am advancing, gives me a foretaste of those icy climes. Inspirited by this wind of promise, my daydreams become more fervent and vivid.
I try in vain to be persuaded that the pole is the seat of frost and desolation; it ever presents itself to my imagination as the region of beauty and delight.
There, Margaret, the sun is for ever visible, its broad disk just skirting the horizon and diffusing a perpetual splendour.
Its productions and features may be without example, as the phenomena of the heavenly bodies undoubtedly are in those undiscovered solitudes.
What may not be expected in a country of eternal light?
I may there discover the wondrous power which attracts the needle and may regulate a thousand celestial observations that require only this voyage to render their seeming eccentricities consistent for ever.
I shall satiate my ardent curiosity with the sight of a part of the world never before visited, and may tread a land never before imprinted by the foot of man.
This expedition has been the favourite dream of my early years.
I have read with ardour the accounts of the various voyages which have been made in the prospect of arriving at the North Pacific Ocean through the seas which surround the pole.
You may remember that a history of all the voyages made for purposes of discovery composed the whole of our good Uncle Thomas' library.
My education was neglected, yet I was passionately fond of reading.
I also became a poet and for one year lived in a paradise of my own creation; I imagined that I also might obtain a niche in the temple where the names of Homer and Shakespeare are consecrated.
I can, even now, remember the hour from which I dedicated myself to this great enterprise.
I commenced by inuring my body to hardship.
Twice I actually hired myself as an under-mate in a Greenland whaler, and acquitted myself to admiration.
Oh, that some encouraging voice would answer in the affirmative!
My courage and my resolution is firm; but my hopes fluctuate, and my spirits are often depressed.
They fly quickly over the snow in their sledges; the motion is pleasant, and, in my opinion, far more agreeable than that of an English stagecoach.
I do not intend to sail until the month of June; and when shall I return?
Ah, dear sister, how can I answer this question?
If I succeed, many, many months, perhaps years, will pass before you and I may meet.
If I fail, you will see me again soon, or never. Farewell, my dear, excellent Margaret.
Heaven shower down blessings on you, and save me, that I may again and again testify my gratitude for all your love and kindness. Your affectionate brother, R.
Walton Letter 2 _To Mrs. Saville, England._ Archangel, 28th March, 17-. How slowly the time passes here, encompassed as I am by frost and snow! Yet a second step is taken towards my enterprise.
I shall commit my thoughts to paper, it is true; but that is a poor medium for the communication of feeling.
I desire the company of a man who could sympathise with me, whose eyes would reply to mine.
You may deem me romantic, my dear sister, but I bitterly feel the want of a friend.
I have no one near me, gentle yet courageous, possessed of a cultivated as well as of a capacious mind, whose tastes are like my own, to approve or amend my plans.
How would such a friend repair the faults of your poor brother!
I am too ardent in execution and too impatient of difficulties.
Now I am twenty-eight and am in reality more illiterate than many schoolboys of fifteen.
Yet some feelings, unallied to the dross of human nature, beat even in these rugged bosoms.
My lieutenant, for instance, is a man of wonderful courage and enterprise; he is madly desirous of glory, or rather, to word my phrase more characteristically, of advancement in his profession.
He is an Englishman, and in the midst of national and professional prejudices, unsoftened by cultivation, retains some of the noblest endowments of humanity.
This circumstance, added to his well-known integrity and dauntless courage, made me very desirous to engage him.
I heard of him first in rather a romantic manner, from a lady who owes to him the happiness of her life.
This, briefly, is his story.
Some years ago he loved a young Russian lady of moderate fortune, and having amassed a considerable sum in prize-money, the father of the girl consented to the match.
My generous friend reassured the suppliant, and on being informed of the name of her lover, instantly abandoned his pursuit.
But the old man decidedly refused, thinking himself bound in honour to my friend, who, when he found the father inexorable, quitted his country, nor returned until he heard that his former mistress was married according to her inclinations.
What a noble fellow!" you will exclaim.
Those are as fixed as fate, and my voyage is only now delayed until the weather shall permit my embarkation.
The winter has been dreadfully severe, but the spring promises well, and it is considered as a remarkably early season, so that perhaps I may sail sooner than I expected.
I shall do nothing rashly: you know me sufficiently to confide in my prudence and considerateness whenever the safety of others is committed to my care. I cannot describe to you my sensations on the near prospect of my undertaking.
It is impossible to communicate to you a conception of the trembling sensation, half pleasurable and half fearful, with which I am preparing to depart.
You will smile at my allusion, but I will disclose a secret.
I have often attributed my attachment to, my passionate enthusiasm for, the dangerous mysteries of ocean to that production of the most imaginative of modern poets.
There is something at work in my soul which I do not understand.
Shall I meet you again, after having traversed immense seas, and returned by the most southern cape of Africa or America?
I dare not expect such success, yet I cannot bear to look on the reverse of the picture.
Continue for the present to write to me by every opportunity: I may receive your letters on some occasions when I need them most to support my spirits.
This letter will reach England by a merchantman now on its homeward voyage from Archangel; more fortunate than I, who may not see my native land, perhaps, for many years.
One or two stiff gales and the springing of a leak are accidents which experienced navigators scarcely remember to record, and I shall be well content if nothing worse happen to us during our voyage. Adieu, my dear Margaret.
Be assured that for my own sake, as well as yours, I will not rashly encounter danger.
I will be cool, persevering, and prudent. But success _shall_ crown my endeavours.
Thus far I have gone, tracing a secure way over the pathless seas, the very stars themselves being witnesses and testimonies of my triumph.
Why not still proceed over the untamed yet obedient element?
What can stop the determined heart and resolved will of man? My swelling heart involuntarily pours itself out thus.
Our situation was somewhat dangerous, especially as we were compassed round by a very thick fog.
Some of my comrades groaned, and my own mind began to grow watchful with anxious thoughts, when a strange sight suddenly attracted our attention and diverted our solicitude from our own situation.
We watched the rapid progress of the traveller with our telescopes until he was lost among the distant inequalities of the ice. This appearance excited our unqualified wonder.
We were, as we believed, many hundred miles from any land; but this apparition seemed to denote that it was not, in reality, so distant as we had supposed.
We, however, lay to until the morning, fearing to encounter in the dark those large loose masses which float about after the breaking up of the ice.
It was, in fact, a sledge, like that we had seen before, which had drifted towards us in the night on a large fragment of ice.
When I appeared on deck the master said, "Here is our captain, and he will not allow you to perish on the open sea." On perceiving me, the stranger addressed me in English, although with a foreign accent.
I replied, however, that we were on a voyage of discovery towards the northern pole. Upon hearing this he appeared satisfied and consented to come on board. Good God!
Margaret, if you had seen the man who thus capitulated for his safety, your surprise would have been boundless.
His limbs were nearly frozen, and his body dreadfully emaciated by fatigue and suffering.
I never saw a man in so wretched a condition.
We attempted to carry him into the cabin, but as soon as he had quitted the fresh air he fainted.
We accordingly brought him back to the deck and restored him to animation by rubbing him with brandy and forcing him to swallow a small quantity.
As soon as he showed signs of life we wrapped him up in blankets and placed him near the chimney of the kitchen stove.
By slow degrees he recovered and ate a little soup, which restored him wonderfully. Two days passed in this manner before he was able to speak, and I often feared that his sufferings had deprived him of understanding.
When he had in some measure recovered, I removed him to my own cabin and attended on him as much as my duty would permit.
For my own part, I begin to love him as a brother, and his constant and deep grief fills me with sympathy and compassion.
He excites at once my admiration and my pity to an astonishing degree.
How can I see so noble a creature destroyed by misery without feeling the most poignant grief?
Yet, although unhappy, he is not so utterly occupied by his own misery but that he interests himself deeply in the projects of others.
He has frequently conversed with me on mine, which I have communicated to him without disguise.
He entered attentively into all my arguments in favour of my eventual success and into every minute detail of the measures I had taken to secure it.
One man's life or death were but a small price to pay for the acquirement of the knowledge which I sought, for the dominion I should acquire and transmit over the elemental foes of our race.
As I spoke, a dark gloom spread over my listener's countenance.
I paused; at length he spoke, in broken accents: "Unhappy man!
Do you share my madness?
Have you drunk also of the intoxicating draught?
He asked me the history of my earlier years.
The tale was quickly told, but it awakened various trains of reflection.
I once had a friend, the most noble of human creatures, and am entitled, therefore, to judge respecting friendship.
You have hope, and the world before you, and have no cause for despair.
But I-I have lost everything and cannot begin life anew." As he said this his countenance became expressive of a calm, settled grief that touched me to the heart.
But he was silent and presently retired to his cabin. Even broken in spirit as he is, no one can feel more deeply than he does the beauties of nature.
The starry sky, the sea, and every sight afforded by these wonderful regions seem still to have the power of elevating his soul from earth.
You would not if you saw him.
You have been tutored and refined by books and retirement from the world, and you are therefore somewhat fastidious; but this only renders you the more fit to appreciate the extraordinary merits of this wonderful man.
Sometimes I have endeavoured to discover what quality it is which he possesses that elevates him so immeasurably above any other person I ever knew.
I had determined at one time that the memory of these evils should die with me, but you have won me to alter my determination.
You seek for knowledge and wisdom, as I once did; and I ardently hope that the gratification of your wishes may not be a serpent to sting you, as mine has been.
Prepare to hear of occurrences which are usually deemed marvellous.
I felt the greatest eagerness to hear the promised narrative, partly from curiosity and partly from a strong desire to ameliorate his fate if it were in my power.
I expressed these feelings in my answer. "I thank you," he replied, "for your sympathy, but it is useless; my fate is nearly fulfilled.
I wait but for one event, and then I shall repose in peace.
This promise drew from me the warmest thanks.
I have resolved every night, when I am not imperatively occupied by my duties, to record, as nearly as possible in his own words, what he has related during the day.
If I should be engaged, I will at least make notes.
This manuscript will doubtless afford you the greatest pleasure; but to me, who know him, and who hear it from his own lips-with what interest and sympathy shall I read it in some future day!
My ancestors had been for many years counsellors and syndics, and my father had filled several public situations with honour and reputation.
He was respected by all who knew him for his integrity and indefatigable attention to public business.
One of his most intimate friends was a merchant who, from a flourishing state, fell, through numerous mischances, into poverty.
This man, whose name was Beaufort, was of a proud and unbending disposition and could not bear to live in poverty and oblivion in the same country where he had formerly been distinguished for his rank and magnificence.
Having paid his debts, therefore, in the most honourable manner, he retreated with his daughter to the town of Lucerne, where he lived unknown and in wretchedness.
Overjoyed at this discovery, he hastened to the house, which was situated in a mean street near the Reuss.
But when he entered, misery and despair alone welcomed him.
But Caroline Beaufort possessed a mind of an uncommon mould, and her courage rose to support her in her adversity.
She procured plain work; she plaited straw and by various means contrived to earn a pittance scarcely sufficient to support life. Several months passed in this manner.
Her father grew worse; her time was more entirely occupied in attending him; her means of subsistence decreased; and in the tenth month her father died in her arms, leaving her an orphan and a beggar.
This last blow overcame her, and she knelt by Beaufort's coffin weeping bitterly, when my father entered the chamber.
He came like a protecting spirit to the poor girl, who committed herself to his care; and after the interment of his friend he conducted her to Geneva and placed her under the protection of a relation.
Two years after this event Caroline became his wife. There was a considerable difference between the ages of my parents, but this circumstance seemed to unite them only closer in bonds of devoted affection.
There was a sense of justice in my father's upright mind which rendered it necessary that he should approve highly to love strongly.
Perhaps during former years he had suffered from the late-discovered unworthiness of one beloved and so was disposed to set a greater value on tried worth.
Everything was made to yield to her wishes and her convenience.
He strove to shelter her, as a fair exotic is sheltered by the gardener, from every rougher wind and to surround her with all that could tend to excite pleasurable emotion in her soft and benevolent mind.
Her health, and even the tranquillity of her hitherto constant spirit, had been shaken by what she had gone through.
I, their eldest child, was born at Naples, and as an infant accompanied them in their rambles.
I remained for several years their only child.
Much as they were attached to each other, they seemed to draw inexhaustible stores of affection from a very mine of love to bestow them upon me.
My mother's tender caresses and my father's smile of benevolent pleasure while regarding me are my first recollections.
My mother had much desired to have a daughter, but I continued their single offspring.
When I was about five years old, while making an excursion beyond the frontiers of Italy, they passed a week on the shores of the Lake of Como.
Their benevolent disposition often made them enter the cottages of the poor.
This, to my mother, was more than a duty; it was a necessity, a passion-remembering what she had suffered, and how she had been relieved-for her to act in her turn the guardian angel to the afflicted.
During one of their walks a poor cot in the foldings of a vale attracted their notice as being singularly disconsolate, while the number of half-clothed children gathered about it spoke of penury in its worst shape.
One day, when my father had gone by himself to Milan, my mother, accompanied by me, visited this abode.
She found a peasant and his wife, hard working, bent down by care and labour, distributing a scanty meal to five hungry babes.
Among these there was one which attracted my mother far above all the rest.
She appeared of a different stock.
The four others were dark-eyed, hardy little vagrants; this child was thin and very fair.
Her hair was the brightest living gold, and despite the poverty of her clothing, seemed to set a crown of distinction on her head.
She was not her child, but the daughter of a Milanese nobleman.
Her mother was a German and had died on giving her birth.
The infant had been placed with these good people to nurse: they were better off then.
They had not been long married, and their eldest child was but just born.
The father of their charge was one of those Italians nursed in the memory of the antique glory of Italy-one among the _schiavi ognor frementi,_ who exerted himself to obtain the liberty of his country.
He became the victim of its weakness.
Whether he had died or still lingered in the dungeons of Austria was not known.
His property was confiscated; his child became an orphan and a beggar.
The apparition was soon explained.
With his permission my mother prevailed on her rustic guardians to yield their charge to her.
They were fond of the sweet orphan.
Her presence had seemed a blessing to them, but it would be unfair to her to keep her in poverty and want when Providence afforded her such powerful protection.
They consulted their village priest, and the result was that Elizabeth Lavenza became the inmate of my parents' house-my more than sister-the beautiful and adored companion of all my occupations and my pleasures. Everyone loved Elizabeth.
The passionate and almost reverential attachment with which all regarded her became, while I shared it, my pride and my delight.
On the evening previous to her being brought to my home, my mother had said playfully, "I have a pretty present for my Victor-tomorrow he shall have it.
And when, on the morrow, she presented Elizabeth to me as her promised gift, I, with childish seriousness, interpreted her words literally and looked upon Elizabeth as mine-mine to protect, love, and cherish.
All praises bestowed on her I received as made to a possession of my own.
We called each other familiarly by the name of cousin.
I need not say that we were strangers to any species of disunion or dispute.
Harmony was the soul of our companionship, and the diversity and contrast that subsisted in our characters drew us nearer together.
We possessed a house in Geneva, and a _campagne_ on Belrive, the eastern shore of the lake, at the distance of rather more than a league from the city.
We resided principally in the latter, and the lives of my parents were passed in considerable seclusion.
It was my temper to avoid a crowd and to attach myself fervently to a few.
I was indifferent, therefore, to my school-fellows in general; but I united myself in the bonds of the closest friendship to one among them.
Henry Clerval was the son of a merchant of Geneva.
He was a boy of singular talent and fancy.
He loved enterprise, hardship, and even danger for its own sake.
He was deeply read in books of chivalry and romance.
He composed heroic songs and began to write many a tale of enchantment and knightly adventure.
I confess that neither the structure of languages, nor the code of governments, nor the politics of various states possessed attractions for me.
The saintly soul of Elizabeth shone like a shrine-dedicated lamp in our peaceful home. Her sympathy was ours; her smile, her soft voice, the sweet glance of her celestial eyes, were ever there to bless and animate us.
And Clerval-could aught ill entrench on the noble spirit of Clerval?
When I was thirteen years of age we all went on a party of pleasure to the baths near Thonon; the inclemency of the weather obliged us to remain a day confined to the inn.
In this house I chanced to find a volume of the works of Cornelius Agrippa.
I opened it with apathy; the theory which he attempts to demonstrate and the wonderful facts which he relates soon changed this feeling into enthusiasm.
A new light seemed to dawn upon my mind, and bounding with joy, I communicated my discovery to my father.
My father looked carelessly at the title page of my book and said, "Ah!
It is even possible that the train of my ideas would never have received the fatal impulse that led to my ruin.
I read and studied the wild fancies of these writers with delight; they appeared to me treasures known to few besides myself.
I have described myself as always having been imbued with a fervent longing to penetrate the secrets of nature.
The most learned philosopher knew little more.
He had partially unveiled the face of Nature, but her immortal lineaments were still a wonder and a mystery.
He might dissect, anatomise, and give names; but, not to speak of a final cause, causes in their secondary and tertiary grades were utterly unknown to him.
I took their word for all that they averred, and I became their disciple.
It may appear strange that such should arise in the eighteenth century; but while I followed the routine of education in the schools of Geneva, I was, to a great degree, self-taught with regard to my favourite studies.
Wealth was an inferior object, but what glory would attend the discovery if I could banish disease from the human frame and render man invulnerable to any but a violent death! Nor were these my only visions.
It advanced from behind the mountains of Jura, and the thunder burst at once with frightful loudness from various quarters of the heavens.
When we visited it the next morning, we found the tree shattered in a singular manner.
It was not splintered by the shock, but entirely reduced to thin ribbons of wood.
I never beheld anything so utterly destroyed. Before this I was not unacquainted with the more obvious laws of electricity.
It seemed to me as if nothing would or could ever be known.
All that had so long engaged my attention suddenly grew despicable.
Her victory was announced by an unusual tranquillity and gladness of soul which followed the relinquishing of my ancient and latterly tormenting studies.
I had hitherto attended the schools of Geneva, but my father thought it necessary for the completion of my education that I should be made acquainted with other customs than those of my native country.
During her illness many arguments had been urged to persuade my mother to refrain from attending upon her.
She had at first yielded to our entreaties, but when she heard that the life of her favourite was menaced, she could no longer control her anxiety.
She attended her sickbed; her watchful attentions triumphed over the malignity of the distemper-Elizabeth was saved, but the consequences of this imprudence were fatal to her preserver.
On the third day my mother sickened; her fever was accompanied by the most alarming symptoms, and the looks of her medical attendants prognosticated the worst event.
On her deathbed the fortitude and benignity of this best of women did not desert her.
She joined the hands of Elizabeth and myself.
My children," she said, "my firmest hopes of future happiness were placed on the prospect of your union.
This expectation will now be the consolation of your father.
Elizabeth, my love, you must supply my place to my younger children.
I regret that I am taken from you; and, happy and beloved as I have been, is it not hard to quit you all?
These are the reflections of the first days; but when the lapse of time proves the reality of the evil, then the actual bitterness of grief commences.
Yet from whom has not that rude hand rent away some dear connection?
And why should I describe a sorrow which all have felt, and must feel?
The time at length arrives when grief is rather an indulgence than a necessity; and the smile that plays upon the lips, although it may be deemed a sacrilege, is not banished.
I obtained from my father a respite of some weeks.
It appeared to me sacrilege so soon to leave the repose, akin to death, of the house of mourning and to rush into the thick of life.
I was new to sorrow, but it did not the less alarm me.
She devoted herself to those whom she had been taught to call her uncle and cousins.
Clerval spent the last evening with us.
He had endeavoured to persuade his father to permit him to accompany me and to become my fellow student, but in vain.
His father was a narrow-minded trader and saw idleness and ruin in the aspirations and ambition of his son.
Henry deeply felt the misfortune of being debarred from a liberal education.
He said little, but when he spoke I read in his kindling eye and in his animated glance a restrained but firm resolve not to be chained to the miserable details of commerce. We sat late.
We could not tear ourselves away from each other nor persuade ourselves to say the word "Farewell!
I, who had ever been surrounded by amiable companions, continually engaged in endeavouring to bestow mutual pleasure-I was now alone.
In the university whither I was going I must form my own friends and be my own protector.
My life had hitherto been remarkably secluded and domestic, and this had given me invincible repugnance to new countenances.
I loved my brothers, Elizabeth, and Clerval; these were "old familiar faces," but I believed myself totally unfitted for the company of strangers.
Such were my reflections as I commenced my journey; but as I proceeded, my spirits and hopes rose.
I ardently desired the acquisition of knowledge.
At length the high white steeple of the town met my eyes.
I alighted and was conducted to my solitary apartment to spend the evening as I pleased. The next morning I delivered my letters of introduction and paid a visit to some of the principal professors.
Chance-or rather the evil influence, the Angel of Destruction, which asserted omnipotent sway over me from the moment I turned my reluctant steps from my father's door-led me first to M.
Krempe, professor of natural philosophy.
He was an uncouth man, but deeply imbued in the secrets of his science.
He asked me several questions concerning my progress in the different branches of science appertaining to natural philosophy.
I replied carelessly, and partly in contempt, mentioned the names of my alchemists as the principal authors I had studied.
Have you," he said, "really spent your time in studying such nonsense?" I replied in the affirmative.
Krempe with warmth, "every instant that you have wasted on those books is utterly and entirely lost.
You have burdened your memory with exploded systems and useless names.
In what desert land have you lived, where no one was kind enough to inform you that these fancies which you have so greedily imbibed are a thousand years old and as musty as they are ancient?
I little expected, in this enlightened and scientific age, to find a disciple of Albertus Magnus and Paracelsus.
Krempe was a little squat man with a gruff voice and a repulsive countenance; the teacher, therefore, did not prepossess me in favour of his pursuits.
In rather a too philosophical and connected a strain, perhaps, I have given an account of the conclusions I had come to concerning them in my early years.
As a child I had not been content with the results promised by the modern professors of natural science.
The ambition of the inquirer seemed to limit itself to the annihilation of those visions on which my interest in science was chiefly founded.
But as the ensuing week commenced, I thought of the information which M.
Krempe had given me concerning the lectures.
This professor was very unlike his colleague.
He appeared about fifty years of age, but with an aspect expressive of the greatest benevolence; a few grey hairs covered his temples, but those at the back of his head were nearly black.
He then took a cursory view of the present state of the science and explained many of its elementary terms.
After having made a few preparatory experiments, he concluded with a panegyric upon modern chemistry, the terms of which I shall never forget: "The ancient teachers of this science," said he, "promised impossibilities and performed nothing.
They penetrate into the recesses of nature and show how she works in her hiding-places.
They ascend into the heavens; they have discovered how the blood circulates, and the nature of the air we breathe.
My internal being was in a state of insurrection and turmoil; I felt that order would thence arise, but I had no power to produce it.
By degrees, after the morning's dawn, sleep came.
I awoke, and my yesternight's thoughts were as a dream. There only remained a resolution to return to my ancient studies and to devote myself to a science for which I believed myself to possess a natural talent.
On the same day I paid M.
His manners in private were even more mild and attractive than in public, for there was a certain dignity in his mien during his lecture which in his own house was replaced by the greatest affability and kindness.
I gave him pretty nearly the same account of my former pursuits as I had given to his fellow professor.
He heard with attention the little narration concerning my studies and smiled at the names of Cornelius Agrippa and Paracelsus, but without the contempt that M.
He said that "These were men to whose indefatigable zeal modern philosophers were indebted for most of the foundations of their knowledge.
They had left to us, as an easier task, to give new names and arrange in connected classifications the facts which they in a great degree had been the instruments of bringing to light.
The labours of men of genius, however erroneously directed, scarcely ever fail in ultimately turning to the solid advantage of mankind.
I requested his advice concerning the books I ought to procure. "I am happy," said M.
Waldman, "to have gained a disciple; and if your application equals your ability, I have no doubt of your success.
A man would make but a very sorry chemist if he attended to that department of human knowledge alone.
I attended the lectures and cultivated the acquaintance of the men of science of the university, and I found even in M.
Krempe a great deal of sound sense and real information, combined, it is true, with a repulsive physiognomy and manners, but not on that account the less valuable.
Waldman I found a true friend.
His gentleness was never tinged by dogmatism, and his instructions were given with an air of frankness and good nature that banished every idea of pedantry.
In a thousand ways he smoothed for me the path of knowledge and made the most abstruse inquiries clear and facile to my apprehension.
My ardour was indeed the astonishment of the students, and my proficiency that of the masters.
Professor Krempe often asked me, with a sly smile, how Cornelius Agrippa went on, whilst M.
Waldman expressed the most heartfelt exultation in my progress.
Two years passed in this manner, during which I paid no visit to Geneva, but was engaged, heart and soul, in the pursuit of some discoveries which I hoped to make.
None but those who have experienced them can conceive of the enticements of science.
I revolved these circumstances in my mind and determined thenceforth to apply myself more particularly to those branches of natural philosophy which relate to physiology.
Unless I had been animated by an almost supernatural enthusiasm, my application to this study would have been irksome and almost intolerable.
To examine the causes of life, we must first have recourse to death.
I do not ever remember to have trembled at a tale of superstition or to have feared the apparition of a spirit.
Darkness had no effect upon my fancy, and a churchyard was to me merely the receptacle of bodies deprived of life, which, from being the seat of beauty and strength, had become food for the worm.
Now I was led to examine the cause and progress of this decay and forced to spend days and nights in vaults and charnel-houses.
My attention was fixed upon every object the most insupportable to the delicacy of the human feelings.
I saw how the fine form of man was degraded and wasted; I beheld the corruption of death succeed to the blooming cheek of life; I saw how the worm inherited the wonders of the eye and brain.
The sun does not more certainly shine in the heavens than that which I now affirm is true.
Some miracle might have produced it, yet the stages of the discovery were distinct and probable.
After so much time spent in painful labour, to arrive at once at the summit of my desires was the most gratifying consummation of my toils.
I will not lead you on, unguarded and ardent as I then was, to your destruction and infallible misery.
The materials at present within my command hardly appeared adequate to so arduous an undertaking, but I doubted not that I should ultimately succeed.
Nor could I consider the magnitude and complexity of my plan as any argument of its impracticability.
It was with these feelings that I began the creation of a human being.
As the minuteness of the parts formed a great hindrance to my speed, I resolved, contrary to my first intention, to make the being of a gigantic stature, that is to say, about eight feet in height, and proportionably large.
After having formed this determination and having spent some months in successfully collecting and arranging my materials, I began. No one can conceive the variety of feelings which bore me onwards, like a hurricane, in the first enthusiasm of success.
Life and death appeared to me ideal bounds, which I should first break through, and pour a torrent of light into our dark world.
A new species would bless me as its creator and source; many happy and excellent natures would owe their being to me.
No father could claim the gratitude of his child so completely as I should deserve theirs.
My cheek had grown pale with study, and my person had become emaciated with confinement.
Sometimes, on the very brink of certainty, I failed; yet still I clung to the hope which the next day or the next hour might realise.
One secret which I alone possessed was the hope to which I had dedicated myself; and the moon gazed on my midnight labours, while, with unrelaxed and breathless eagerness, I pursued nature to her hiding-places.
Who shall conceive the horrors of my secret toil as I dabbled among the unhallowed damps of the grave or tortured the living animal to animate the lifeless clay?
My limbs now tremble, and my eyes swim with the remembrance; but then a resistless and almost frantic impulse urged me forward; I seemed to have lost all soul or sensation but for this one pursuit.
It was indeed but a passing trance, that only made me feel with renewed acuteness so soon as, the unnatural stimulus ceasing to operate, I had returned to my old habits.
I collected bones from charnel-houses and disturbed, with profane fingers, the tremendous secrets of the human frame.
It was a most beautiful season; never did the fields bestow a more plentiful harvest or the vines yield a more luxuriant vintage, but my eyes were insensible to the charms of nature.
And the same feelings which made me neglect the scenes around me caused me also to forget those friends who were so many miles absent, and whom I had not seen for so long a time.
I knew my silence disquieted them, and I well remembered the words of my father: "I know that while you are pleased with yourself you will think of us with affection, and we shall hear regularly from you.
A human being in perfection ought always to preserve a calm and peaceful mind and never to allow passion or a transitory desire to disturb his tranquillity.
I do not think that the pursuit of knowledge is an exception to this rule.
The leaves of that year had withered before my work drew near to a close, and now every day showed me more plainly how well I had succeeded.
With an anxiety that almost amounted to agony, I collected the instruments of life around me, that I might infuse a spark of being into the lifeless thing that lay at my feet.
His limbs were in proportion, and I had selected his features as beautiful.
I had worked hard for nearly two years, for the sole purpose of infusing life into an inanimate body.
For this I had deprived myself of rest and health.
I had desired it with an ardour that far exceeded moderation; but now that I had finished, the beauty of the dream vanished, and breathless horror and disgust filled my heart.
Unable to endure the aspect of the being I had created, I rushed out of the room and continued a long time traversing my bed-chamber, unable to compose my mind to sleep.
I thought I saw Elizabeth, in the bloom of health, walking in the streets of Ingolstadt.
He held up the curtain of the bed; and his eyes, if eyes they may be called, were fixed on me.
His jaws opened, and he muttered some inarticulate sounds, while a grin wrinkled his cheeks.
He might have spoken, but I did not hear; one hand was stretched out, seemingly to detain me, but I escaped and rushed downstairs.
No mortal could support the horror of that countenance.
A mummy again endued with animation could not be so hideous as that wretch.
I had gazed on him while unfinished; he was ugly then, but when those muscles and joints were rendered capable of motion, it became a thing such as even Dante could not have conceived. I passed the night wretchedly.
Sometimes my pulse beat so quickly and hardly that I felt the palpitation of every artery; at others, I nearly sank to the ground through languor and extreme weakness.
I traversed the streets without any clear conception of where I was or what I was doing.
Here I paused, I knew not why; but I remained some minutes with my eyes fixed on a coach that was coming towards me from the other end of the street.
As it drew nearer I observed that it was the Swiss diligence; it stopped just where I was standing, and on the door being opened, I perceived Henry Clerval, who, on seeing me, instantly sprung out.
My dear Frankenstein," exclaimed he, "how glad I am to see you!
I grasped his hand, and in a moment forgot my horror and misfortune; I felt suddenly, and for the first time during many months, calm and serene joy.
I welcomed my friend, therefore, in the most cordial manner, and we walked towards my college.
Clerval continued talking for some time about our mutual friends and his own good fortune in being permitted to come to Ingolstadt.
By the by, I mean to lecture you a little upon their account myself.
I walked with a quick pace, and we soon arrived at my college.
I then reflected, and the thought made me shiver, that the creature whom I had left in my apartment might still be there, alive and walking about.
I dreaded to behold this monster, but I feared still more that Henry should see him. Entreating him, therefore, to remain a few minutes at the bottom of the stairs, I darted up towards my own room.
My hand was already on the lock of the door before I recollected myself.
I then paused, and a cold shivering came over me.
I threw the door forcibly open, as children are accustomed to do when they expect a spectre to stand in waiting for them on the other side; but nothing appeared.
I stepped fearfully in: the apartment was empty, and my bedroom was also freed from its hideous guest.
It was not joy only that possessed me; I felt my flesh tingle with excess of sensitiveness, and my pulse beat rapidly.
Do not laugh in that manner.
What is the cause of all this?" "Do not ask me," cried I, putting my hands before my eyes, for I thought I saw the dreaded spectre glide into the room; "_he_ can tell.
I imagined that the monster seized me; I struggled furiously and fell down in a fit. Poor Clerval!
What must have been his feelings?
A meeting, which he anticipated with such joy, so strangely turned to bitterness.
But I was not the witness of his grief, for I was lifeless and did not recover my senses for a long, long time. This was the commencement of a nervous fever which confined me for several months.
During all that time Henry was my only nurse.
I afterwards learned that, knowing my father's advanced age and unfitness for so long a journey, and how wretched my sickness would make Elizabeth, he spared them this grief by concealing the extent of my disorder.
I remember the first time I became capable of observing outward objects with any kind of pleasure, I perceived that the fallen leaves had disappeared and that the young buds were shooting forth from the trees that shaded my window.
It was a divine spring, and the season contributed greatly to my convalescence.
This whole winter, instead of being spent in study, as you promised yourself, has been consumed in my sick room.
How shall I ever repay you?
They hardly know how ill you have been and are uneasy at your long silence." "Is that all, my dear Henry?
It was from my own Elizabeth: "My dearest Cousin, "You have been ill, very ill, and even the constant letters of dear kind Henry are not sufficient to reassure me on your account.
You are forbidden to write-to hold a pen; yet one word from you, dear Victor, is necessary to calm our apprehensions.
For a long time I have thought that each post would bring this line, and my persuasions have restrained my uncle from undertaking a journey to Ingolstadt.
I have prevented his encountering the inconveniences and perhaps dangers of so long a journey, yet how often have I regretted not being able to perform it myself!
I figure to myself that the task of attending on your sickbed has devolved on some mercenary old nurse, who could never guess your wishes nor minister to them with the care and affection of your poor cousin.
Yet that is over now: Clerval writes that indeed you are getting better.
I eagerly hope that you will confirm this intelligence soon in your own handwriting. "Get well-and return to us.
You will find a happy, cheerful home and friends who love you dearly.
Your father's health is vigorous, and he asks but to see you, but to be assured that you are well; and not a care will ever cloud his benevolent countenance.
How pleased you would be to remark the improvement of our Ernest!
He is now sixteen and full of activity and spirit.
He is desirous to be a true Swiss and to enter into foreign service, but we cannot part with him, at least until his elder brother returns to us.
My uncle is not pleased with the idea of a military career in a distant country, but Ernest never had your powers of application.
He looks upon study as an odious fetter; his time is spent in the open air, climbing the hills or rowing on the lake.
The blue lake and snow-clad mountains-they never change; and I think our placid home and our contented hearts are regulated by the same immutable laws.
My trifling occupations take up my time and amuse me, and I am rewarded for any exertions by seeing none but happy, kind faces around me.
Since you left us, but one change has taken place in our little household.
Do you remember on what occasion Justine Moritz entered our family?
Probably you do not; I will relate her history, therefore in a few words.
Madame Moritz, her mother, was a widow with four children, of whom Justine was the third.
This girl had always been the favourite of her father, but through a strange perversity, her mother could not endure her, and after the death of M.
Moritz, treated her very ill. My aunt observed this, and when Justine was twelve years of age, prevailed on her mother to allow her to live at our house.
The republican institutions of our country have produced simpler and happier manners than those which prevail in the great monarchies that surround it.
Hence there is less distinction between the several classes of its inhabitants; and the lower orders, being neither so poor nor so despised, their manners are more refined and moral.
A servant in Geneva does not mean the same thing as a servant in France and England.
My aunt conceived a great attachment for her, by which she was induced to give her an education superior to that which she had at first intended.
Poor Justine was very ill; but other trials were reserved for her. "One by one, her brothers and sister died; and her mother, with the exception of her neglected daughter, was left childless.
The conscience of the woman was troubled; she began to think that the deaths of her favourites was a judgement from heaven to chastise her partiality.
She was a Roman Catholic; and I believe her confessor confirmed the idea which she had conceived.
Accordingly, a few months after your departure for Ingolstadt, Justine was called home by her repentant mother.
She wept when she quitted our house; she was much altered since the death of my aunt; grief had given softness and a winning mildness to her manners, which had before been remarkable for vivacity.
Nor was her residence at her mother's house of a nature to restore her gaiety.
The poor woman was very vacillating in her repentance.
She sometimes begged Justine to forgive her unkindness, but much oftener accused her of having caused the deaths of her brothers and sister.
Perpetual fretting at length threw Madame Moritz into a decline, which at first increased her irritability, but she is now at peace for ever.
She died on the first approach of cold weather, at the beginning of this last winter.
Justine has just returned to us; and I assure you I love her tenderly.
I wish you could see him; he is very tall of his age, with sweet laughing blue eyes, dark eyelashes, and curling hair.
When he smiles, two little dimples appear on each cheek, which are rosy with health.
The pretty Miss Mansfield has already received the congratulatory visits on her approaching marriage with a young Englishman, John Melbourne, Esq. Her ugly sister, Manon, married M.
Duvillard, the rich banker, last autumn.
Your favourite schoolfellow, Louis Manoir, has suffered several misfortunes since the departure of Clerval from Geneva.
But he has already recovered his spirits, and is reported to be on the point of marrying a lively pretty Frenchwoman, Madame Tavernier.
She is a widow, and much older than Manoir; but she is very much admired, and a favourite with everybody. "I have written myself into better spirits, dear cousin; but my anxiety returns upon me as I conclude.
Write, dearest Victor,-one line-one word will be a blessing to us.
Ten thousand thanks to Henry for his kindness, his affection, and his many letters; we are sincerely grateful.
Adieu! my cousin; take care of yourself; and, I entreat you, write! "Elizabeth Lavenza. "Geneva, March 18th, 17-." "Dear, dear Elizabeth!
I exclaimed, when I had read her letter: "I will write instantly and relieve them from the anxiety they must feel.
I wrote, and this exertion greatly fatigued me; but my convalescence had commenced, and proceeded regularly.
In another fortnight I was able to leave my chamber. One of my first duties on my recovery was to introduce Clerval to the several professors of the university.
In doing this, I underwent a kind of rough usage, ill befitting the wounds that my mind had sustained.
Ever since the fatal night, the end of my labours, and the beginning of my misfortunes, I had conceived a violent antipathy even to the name of natural philosophy.
When I was otherwise quite restored to health, the sight of a chemical instrument would renew all the agony of my nervous symptoms.
Henry saw this, and had removed all my apparatus from my view.
He had also changed my apartment; for he perceived that I had acquired a dislike for the room which had previously been my laboratory.
But these cares of Clerval were made of no avail when I visited the professors.
Waldman inflicted torture when he praised, with kindness and warmth, the astonishing progress I had made in the sciences.
He meant to please, and he tormented me.
I felt as if he had placed carefully, one by one, in my view those instruments which were to be afterwards used in putting me to a slow and cruel death.
I thanked my friend from my heart, but I did not speak.
Krempe was not equally docile; and in my condition at that time, of almost insupportable sensitiveness, his harsh blunt encomiums gave me even more pain than the benevolent approbation of M.
D-n the fellow!" cried he; "why, M.
Clerval, I assure you he has outstript us all.
Ay, stare if you please; but it is nevertheless true.
Frankenstein is modest; an excellent quality in a young man. Young men should be diffident of themselves, you know, M.
Clerval: I was myself when young; but that wears out in a very short time." M.
He came to the university with the design of making himself complete master of the oriental languages, and thus he should open a field for the plan of life he had marked out for himself.
Resolved to pursue no inglorious career, he turned his eyes toward the East, as affording scope for his spirit of enterprise.
The Persian, Arabic, and Sanskrit languages engaged his attention, and I was easily induced to enter on the same studies.
I did not, like him, attempt a critical knowledge of their dialects, for I did not contemplate making any other use of them than temporary amusement.
I read merely to understand their meaning, and they well repaid my labours.
Their melancholy is soothing, and their joy elevating, to a degree I never experienced in studying the authors of any other country.
When you read their writings, life appears to consist in a warm sun and a garden of roses,-in the smiles and frowns of a fair enemy, and the fire that consumes your own heart.
I felt this delay very bitterly; for I longed to see my native town and my beloved friends.
My return had only been delayed so long, from an unwillingness to leave Clerval in a strange place, before he had become acquainted with any of its inhabitants.
A serene sky and verdant fields filled me with ecstasy.
The present season was indeed divine; the flowers of spring bloomed in the hedges, while those of summer were already in bud.
The resources of his mind on this occasion were truly astonishing: his conversation was full of imagination; and very often, in imitation of the Persian and Arabic writers, he invented tales of wonderful fancy and passion.
But that would be a cruel kindness, and I dare not do it.
What would be your surprise, my son, when you expected a happy and glad welcome, to behold, on the contrary, tears and wretchedness?
And how, Victor, can I relate our misfortune?
Absence cannot have rendered you callous to our joys and griefs; and how shall I inflict pain on my long absent son?
Victor, he is murdered! "I will not attempt to console you; but will simply relate the circumstances of the transaction. "Last Thursday (May 7th), I, my niece, and your two brothers, went to walk in Plainpalais.
The evening was warm and serene, and we prolonged our walk farther than usual.
It was already dusk before we thought of returning; and then we discovered that William and Ernest, who had gone on before, were not to be found.
We accordingly rested on a seat until they should return.
We returned again, with torches; for I could not rest, when I thought that my sweet boy had lost himself, and was exposed to all the damps and dews of night; Elizabeth also suffered extreme anguish.
She was very earnest to see the corpse.
At first I attempted to prevent her but she persisted, and entering the room where it lay, hastily examined the neck of the victim, and clasping her hands exclaimed, 'O God!
I have murdered my darling child!' "She fainted, and was restored with extreme difficulty.
When she again lived, it was only to weep and sigh.
She told me, that that same evening William had teased her to let him wear a very valuable miniature that she possessed of your mother.
This picture is gone, and was doubtless the temptation which urged the murderer to the deed.
We have no trace of him at present, although our exertions to discover him are unremitted; but they will not restore my beloved William! "Come, dearest Victor; you alone can console Elizabeth.
She weeps continually, and accuses herself unjustly as the cause of his death; her words pierce my heart.
We are all unhappy; but will not that be an additional motive for you, my son, to return and be our comforter? Your dear mother!
I threw the letter on the table, and covered my face with my hands. "My dear Frankenstein," exclaimed Henry, when he perceived me weep with bitterness, "are you always to be unhappy?
My dear friend, what has happened?" I motioned him to take up the letter, while I walked up and down the room in the extremest agitation.
Tears also gushed from the eyes of Clerval, as he read the account of my misfortune. "I can offer you no consolation, my friend," said he; "your disaster is irreparable.
What do you intend to do?" "To go instantly to Geneva: come with me, Henry, to order the horses." During our walk, Clerval endeavoured to say a few words of consolation; he could only express his heartfelt sympathy.
Poor William!" said he, "dear lovely child, he now sleeps with his angel mother!
Who that had seen him bright and joyous in his young beauty, but must weep over his untimely loss!
To die so miserably; to feel the murderer's grasp!
How much more a murdered that could destroy radiant innocence!
Poor little fellow! one only consolation have we; his friends mourn and weep, but he is at rest.
The pang is over, his sufferings are at an end for ever. A sod covers his gentle form, and he knows no pain.
He can no longer be a subject for pity; we must reserve that for his miserable survivors." Clerval spoke thus as we hurried through the streets; the words impressed themselves on my mind and I remembered them afterwards in solitude.
But now, as soon as the horses arrived, I hurried into a cabriolet, and bade farewell to my friend. My journey was very melancholy.
At first I wished to hurry on, for I longed to console and sympathise with my loved and sorrowing friends; but when I drew near my native town, I slackened my progress.
I could hardly sustain the multitude of feelings that crowded into my mind.
I passed through scenes familiar to my youth, but which I had not seen for nearly six years. How altered every thing might be during that time!
One sudden and desolating change had taken place; but a thousand little circumstances might have by degrees worked other alterations, which, although they were done more tranquilly, might not be the less decisive.
Fear overcame me; I dared no advance, dreading a thousand nameless evils that made me tremble, although I was unable to define them. I remained two days at Lausanne, in this painful state of mind.
I contemplated the lake: the waters were placid; all around was calm; and the snowy mountains, "the palaces of nature," were not changed.
By degrees the calm and heavenly scene restored me, and I continued my journey towards Geneva. The road ran by the side of the lake, which became narrower as I approached my native town.
I discovered more distinctly the black sides of Jura, and the bright summit of Mont Blanc.
I wept like a child.
Dear mountains! my own beautiful lake! how do you welcome your wanderer?
Your summits are clear; the sky and lake are blue and placid.
Night also closed around; and when I could hardly see the dark mountains, I felt still more gloomily.
The picture appeared a vast and dim scene of evil, and I foresaw obscurely that I was destined to become the most wretched of human beings.
The sky was serene; and, as I was unable to rest, I resolved to visit the spot where my poor William had been murdered.
The storm appeared to approach rapidly, and, on landing, I ascended a low hill, that I might observe its progress.
The storm, as is often the case in Switzerland, appeared at once in various parts of the heavens.
This noble war in the sky elevated my spirits; I clasped my hands, and exclaimed aloud, "William, dear angel! this is thy funeral, this thy dirge!
As I said these words, I perceived in the gloom a figure which stole from behind a clump of trees near me; I stood fixed, gazing intently: I could not be mistaken.
Could he be (I shuddered at the conception) the murderer of my brother?
No sooner did that idea cross my imagination, than I became convinced of its truth; my teeth chattered, and I was forced to lean against a tree for support.
The figure passed me quickly, and I lost it in the gloom.
Nothing in human shape could have destroyed the fair child. _He_ was the murderer!
I could not doubt it.
The mere presence of the idea was an irresistible proof of the fact.
He soon reached the summit, and disappeared. I remained motionless.
The thunder ceased; but the rain still continued, and the scene was enveloped in an impenetrable darkness.
I revolved in my mind the events which I had until now sought to forget: the whole train of my progress toward the creation; the appearance of the works of my own hands at my bedside; its departure.
Two years had now nearly elapsed since the night on which he first received life; and was this his first crime?
But I did not feel the inconvenience of the weather; my imagination was busy in scenes of evil and despair.
The gates were open, and I hastened to my father's house.
My first thought was to discover what I knew of the murderer, and cause instant pursuit to be made.
But I paused when I reflected on the story that I had to tell.
A being whom I myself had formed, and endued with life, had met me at midnight among the precipices of an inaccessible mountain.
I remembered also the nervous fever with which I had been seized just at the time that I dated my creation, and which would give an air of delirium to a tale otherwise so utterly improbable.
I well knew that if any other had communicated such a relation to me, I should have looked upon it as the ravings of insanity.
Besides, the strange nature of the animal would elude all pursuit, even if I were so far credited as to persuade my relatives to commence it.
And then of what use would be pursuit?
These reflections determined me, and I resolved to remain silent. It was about five in the morning when I entered my father's house.
He still remained to me.
I gazed on the picture of my mother, which stood over the mantel-piece.
It was an historical subject, painted at my father's desire, and represented Caroline Beaufort in an agony of despair, kneeling by the coffin of her dead father.
Her garb was rustic, and her cheek pale; but there was an air of dignity and beauty, that hardly permitted the sentiment of pity.
Below this picture was a miniature of William; and my tears flowed when I looked upon it.
While I was thus engaged, Ernest entered: he had heard me arrive, and hastened to welcome me: "Welcome, my dearest Victor," said he.
I wish you had come three months ago, and then you would have found us all joyous and delighted.
Before, I had only imagined the wretchedness of my desolated home; the reality came on me as a new, and a not less terrible, disaster.
But since the murderer has been discovered-" "The murderer discovered!
Good God! how can that be? who could attempt to pursue him?
It is impossible; one might as well try to overtake the winds, or confine a mountain-stream with a straw.
I saw him too; he was free last night!" "I do not know what you mean," replied my brother, in accents of wonder, "but to us the discovery we have made completes our misery.
No one would believe it at first; and even now Elizabeth will not be convinced, notwithstanding all the evidence.
Indeed, who would credit that Justine Moritz, who was so amiable, and fond of all the family, could suddenly become so capable of so frightful, so appalling a crime?" "Justine Moritz!
Poor, poor girl, is she the accused?
The servant instantly showed it to one of the others, who, without saying a word to any of the family, went to a magistrate; and, upon their deposition, Justine was apprehended.
Justine, poor, good Justine, is innocent." At that instant my father entered.
She is to be tried today, and I hope, I sincerely hope, that she will be acquitted." This speech calmed me.
I was firmly convinced in my own mind that Justine, and indeed every human being, was guiltless of this murder.
I had no fear, therefore, that any circumstantial evidence could be brought forward strong enough to convict her.
My tale was not one to announce publicly; its astounding horror would be looked upon as madness by the vulgar.
Time had altered her since I last beheld her; it had endowed her with loveliness surpassing the beauty of her childish years.
There was the same candour, the same vivacity, but it was allied to an expression more full of sensibility and intellect. She welcomed me with the greatest affection.
Your arrival, my dear cousin," said she, "fills me with hope.
You perhaps will find some means to justify my poor guiltless Justine.
Alas! who is safe, if she be convicted of crime?
I rely on her innocence as certainly as I do upon my own.
Our misfortune is doubly hard to us; we have not only lost that lovely darling boy, but this poor girl, whom I sincerely love, is to be torn away by even a worse fate.
If she is condemned, I never shall know joy more.
She wept. "Dearest niece," said my father, "dry your tears.
My father and the rest of the family being obliged to attend as witnesses, I accompanied them to the court.
During the whole of this wretched mockery of justice I suffered living torture.
She was dressed in mourning, and her countenance, always engaging, was rendered, by the solemnity of her feelings, exquisitely beautiful.
She was tranquil, yet her tranquillity was evidently constrained; and as her confusion had before been adduced as a proof of her guilt, she worked up her mind to an appearance of courage.
When she entered the court she threw her eyes round it and quickly discovered where we were seated.
Several strange facts combined against her, which might have staggered anyone who had not such proof of her innocence as I had.
The woman asked her what she did there, but she looked very strangely and only returned a confused and unintelligible answer.
She returned to the house about eight o'clock, and when one inquired where she had passed the night, she replied that she had been looking for the child and demanded earnestly if anything had been heard concerning him.
When shown the body, she fell into violent hysterics and kept her bed for several days.
As the trial had proceeded, her countenance had altered.
Surprise, horror, and misery were strongly expressed.
Sometimes she struggled with her tears, but when she was desired to plead, she collected her powers and spoke in an audible although variable voice. "God knows," she said, "how entirely I am innocent.
On her return, at about nine o'clock, she met a man who asked her if she had seen anything of the child who was lost.
If she had gone near the spot where his body lay, it was without her knowledge.
But here also I am checked.
I believe that I have no enemy on earth, and none surely would have been so wicked as to destroy me wantonly.
Did the murderer place it there?
I am well acquainted with the accused.
I have lived in the same house with her, at one time for five and at another for nearly two years.
During all that period she appeared to me the most amiable and benevolent of human creatures.
She was warmly attached to the child who is now dead and acted towards him like a most affectionate mother.
For my own part, I do not hesitate to say that, notwithstanding all the evidence produced against her, I believe and rely on her perfect innocence.
She herself wept as Elizabeth spoke, but she did not answer.
My own agitation and anguish was extreme during the whole trial.
I believed in her innocence; I knew it.
Could the daemon who had (I did not for a minute doubt) murdered my brother also in his hellish sport have betrayed the innocent to death and ignominy?
I could not sustain the horror of my situation, and when I perceived that the popular voice and the countenances of the judges had already condemned my unhappy victim, I rushed out of the court in agony.
The tortures of the accused did not equal mine; she was sustained by innocence, but the fangs of remorse tore my bosom and would not forgo their hold. I passed a night of unmingled wretchedness.
In the morning I went to the court; my lips and throat were parched.
I dared not ask the fatal question, but I was known, and the officer guessed the cause of my visit.
The ballots had been thrown; they were all black, and Justine was condemned. I cannot pretend to describe what I then felt.
I had before experienced sensations of horror, and I have endeavoured to bestow upon them adequate expressions, but words cannot convey an idea of the heart-sickening despair that I then endured.
Had my eyes deceived me?
And was I really as mad as the whole world would believe me to be if I disclosed the object of my suspicions?
I hastened to return home, and Elizabeth eagerly demanded the result. "My cousin," replied I, "it is decided as you may have expected; all judges had rather that ten innocent should suffer than that one guilty should escape.
But she has confessed." This was a dire blow to poor Elizabeth, who had relied with firmness upon Justine's innocence.
How shall I ever again believe in human goodness?
My father wished her not to go but said that he left it to her own judgment and feelings to decide.
Yes," said Elizabeth, "I will go, although she is guilty; and you, Victor, shall accompany me; I cannot go alone.
She rose on seeing us enter, and when we were left alone with her, she threw herself at the feet of Elizabeth, weeping bitterly.
My cousin wept also. "Oh, Justine!" said she.
Do you also join with my enemies to crush me, to condemn me as a murderer?
Her voice was suffocated with sobs. "Rise, my poor girl," said Elizabeth; "why do you kneel, if you are innocent?
I am not one of your enemies, I believed you guiltless, notwithstanding every evidence, until I heard that you had yourself declared your guilt.
That report, you say, is false; and be assured, dear Justine, that nothing can shake my confidence in you for a moment, but your own confession." "I did confess, but I confessed a lie.
I confessed, that I might obtain absolution; but now that falsehood lies heavier at my heart than all my other sins.
The God of heaven forgive me!
Ever since I was condemned, my confessor has besieged me; he threatened and menaced, until I almost began to think that I was the monster that he said I was.
He threatened excommunication and hell fire in my last moments if I continued obdurate.
Dear lady, I had none to support me; all looked on me as a wretch doomed to ignominy and perdition.
I soon shall see you again in heaven, where we shall all be happy; and that consoles me, going as I am to suffer ignominy and death." "Oh, Justine!
Forgive me for having for one moment distrusted you. Why did you confess?
But do not mourn, dear girl.
I will proclaim, I will prove your innocence.
I will melt the stony hearts of your enemies by my tears and prayers.
You shall not die! You, my playfellow, my companion, my sister, perish on the scaffold! No!
I never could survive so horrible a misfortune." Justine shook her head mournfully.
I do not fear to die," she said; "that pang is past.
God raises my weakness and gives me courage to endure the worst.
I leave a sad and bitter world; and if you remember me and think of me as of one unjustly condemned, I am resigned to the fate awaiting me.
Learn from me, dear lady, to submit in patience to the will of heaven!" During this conversation I had retired to a corner of the prison room, where I could conceal the horrid anguish that possessed me.
Despair! Who dared talk of that?
The poor victim, who on the morrow was to pass the awful boundary between life and death, felt not, as I did, such deep and bitter agony.
I gnashed my teeth and ground them together, uttering a groan that came from my inmost soul.
When she saw who it was, she approached me and said, "Dear sir, you are very kind to visit me; you, I hope, do not believe that I am guilty?" I could not answer.
No, Justine," said Elizabeth; "he is more convinced of your innocence than I was, for even when he heard that you had confessed, he did not credit it." "I truly thank him.
In these last moments I feel the sincerest gratitude towards those who think of me with kindness.
How sweet is the affection of others to such a wretch as I am!
It removes more than half my misfortune, and I feel as if I could die in peace now that my innocence is acknowledged by you, dear lady, and your cousin." Thus the poor sufferer tried to comfort others and herself.
She indeed gained the resignation she desired.
But I, the true murderer, felt the never-dying worm alive in my bosom, which allowed of no hope or consolation.
Elizabeth also wept and was unhappy, but hers also was the misery of innocence, which, like a cloud that passes over the fair moon, for a while hides but cannot tarnish its brightness.
Anguish and despair had penetrated into the core of my heart; I bore a hell within me which nothing could extinguish.
We stayed several hours with Justine, and it was with great difficulty that Elizabeth could tear herself away.
I wish," cried she, "that I were to die with you; I cannot live in this world of misery." Justine assumed an air of cheerfulness, while she with difficulty repressed her bitter tears.
Live, and be happy, and make others so." And on the morrow Justine died.
Elizabeth's heart-rending eloquence failed to move the judges from their settled conviction in the criminality of the saintly sufferer.
My passionate and indignant appeals were lost upon them.
And when I received their cold answers and heard the harsh, unfeeling reasoning of these men, my purposed avowal died away on my lips.
Thus I might proclaim myself a madman, but not revoke the sentence passed upon my wretched victim.
She perished on the scaffold as a murderess! From the tortures of my own heart, I turned to contemplate the deep and voiceless grief of my Elizabeth.
This also was my doing!
And my father's woe, and the desolation of that late so smiling home all was the work of my thrice-accursed hands!
Ye weep, unhappy ones, but these are not your last tears!
Justine died, she rested, and I was alive.
The blood flowed freely in my veins, but a weight of despair and remorse pressed on my heart which nothing could remove.
Sleep fled from my eyes; I wandered like an evil spirit, for I had committed deeds of mischief beyond description horrible, and more, much more (I persuaded myself) was yet behind.
Yet my heart overflowed with kindness and the love of virtue. I had begun life with benevolent intentions and thirsted for the moment when I should put them in practice and make myself useful to my fellow beings.
Now I could only answer my father with a look of despair and endeavour to hide myself from his view. About this time we retired to our house at Belrive.
This change was particularly agreeable to me.
The shutting of the gates regularly at ten o'clock and the impossibility of remaining on the lake after that hour had rendered our residence within the walls of Geneva very irksome to me.
Often, after the rest of the family had retired for the night, I took the boat and passed many hours upon the water.
Sometimes, with my sails set, I was carried by the wind; and sometimes, after rowing into the middle of the lake, I left the boat to pursue its own course and gave way to my own miserable reflections.
But I was restrained, when I thought of the heroic and suffering Elizabeth, whom I tenderly loved, and whose existence was bound up in mine.
But that could not be.
I had been the author of unalterable evils, and I lived in daily fear lest the monster whom I had created should perpetrate some new wickedness.
My abhorrence of this fiend cannot be conceived.
When I thought of him I gnashed my teeth, my eyes became inflamed, and I ardently wished to extinguish that life which I had so thoughtlessly bestowed.
When I reflected on his crimes and malice, my hatred and revenge burst all bounds of moderation.
I would have made a pilgrimage to the highest peak of the Andes, could I, when there, have precipitated him to their base.
I wished to see him again, that I might wreak the utmost extent of abhorrence on his head and avenge the deaths of William and Justine. Our house was the house of mourning.
My father's health was deeply shaken by the horror of the recent events.
She was no longer that happy creature who in earlier youth wandered with me on the banks of the lake and talked with ecstasy of our future prospects.
Yet I am certainly unjust.
Everybody believed that poor girl to be guilty; and if she could have committed the crime for which she suffered, assuredly she would have been the most depraved of human creatures.
For the sake of a few jewels, to have murdered the son of her benefactor and friend, a child whom she had nursed from its birth, and appeared to love as if it had been her own!
I could not consent to the death of any human being, but certainly I should have thought such a creature unfit to remain in the society of men.
I know, I feel she was innocent; you are of the same opinion, and that confirms me. Alas!
Victor, when falsehood can look so like the truth, who can assure themselves of certain happiness?
I feel as if I were walking on the edge of a precipice, towards which thousands are crowding and endeavouring to plunge me into the abyss.
William and Justine were assassinated, and the murderer escapes; he walks about the world free, and perhaps respected.
But even if I were condemned to suffer on the scaffold for the same crimes, I would not change places with such a wretch." I listened to this discourse with the extremest agony.
I, not in deed, but in effect, was the true murderer.
Elizabeth read my anguish in my countenance, and kindly taking my hand, said, "My dearest friend, you must calm yourself.
These events have affected me, God knows how deeply; but I am not so wretched as you are.
There is an expression of despair, and sometimes of revenge, in your countenance that makes me tremble.
Dear Victor, banish these dark passions.
Remember the friends around you, who centre all their hopes in you.
Have we lost the power of rendering you happy?
I was encompassed by a cloud which no beneficial influence could penetrate.
My wanderings were directed towards the valley of Chamounix.
I had visited it frequently during my boyhood.
Six years had passed since then: _I_ was a wreck, but nought had changed in those savage and enduring scenes. I performed the first part of my journey on horseback.
I afterwards hired a mule, as the more sure-footed and least liable to receive injury on these rugged roads.
The weather was fine; it was about the middle of the month of August, nearly two months after the death of Justine, that miserable epoch from which I dated all my woe.
The weight upon my spirit was sensibly lightened as I plunged yet deeper in the ravine of Arve.
Soon after, I entered the valley of Chamounix.
This valley is more wonderful and sublime, but not so beautiful and picturesque as that of Servox, through which I had just passed.
The high and snowy mountains were its immediate boundaries, but I saw no more ruined castles and fertile fields.
Immense glaciers approached the road; I heard the rumbling thunder of the falling avalanche and marked the smoke of its passage.
Some turn in the road, some new object suddenly perceived and recognised, reminded me of days gone by, and were associated with the lighthearted gaiety of boyhood.
The very winds whispered in soothing accents, and maternal Nature bade me weep no more.
Then again the kindly influence ceased to act-I found myself fettered again to grief and indulging in all the misery of reflection.
I stood beside the sources of the Arveiron, which take their rise in a glacier, that with slow pace is advancing down from the summit of the hills to barricade the valley.
These sublime and magnificent scenes afforded me the greatest consolation that I was capable of receiving.
They elevated me from all littleness of feeling, and although they did not remove my grief, they subdued and tranquillised it.
In some degree, also, they diverted my mind from the thoughts over which it had brooded for the last month.
I retired to rest at night; my slumbers, as it were, waited on and ministered to by the assemblance of grand shapes which I had contemplated during the day.
All of soul-inspiriting fled with sleep, and dark melancholy clouded every thought.
The rain was pouring in torrents, and thick mists hid the summits of the mountains, so that I even saw not the faces of those mighty friends.
Still I would penetrate their misty veil and seek them in their cloudy retreats.
What were rain and storm to me?
My mule was brought to the door, and I resolved to ascend to the summit of Montanvert.
It is a scene terrifically desolate.
In a thousand spots the traces of the winter avalanche may be perceived, where trees lie broken and strewed on the ground, some entirely destroyed, others bent, leaning upon the jutting rocks of the mountain or transversely upon other trees.
Why does man boast of sensibilities superior to those apparent in the brute; it only renders them more necessary beings.
For some time I sat upon the rock that overlooks the sea of ice.
A mist covered both that and the surrounding mountains.
Presently a breeze dissipated the cloud, and I descended upon the glacier.
The surface is very uneven, rising like the waves of a troubled sea, descending low, and interspersed by rifts that sink deep.
The field of ice is almost a league in width, but I spent nearly two hours in crossing it.
The opposite mountain is a bare perpendicular rock.
From the side where I now stood Montanvert was exactly opposite, at the distance of a league; and above it rose Mont Blanc, in awful majesty.
I remained in a recess of the rock, gazing on this wonderful and stupendous scene.
The sea, or rather the vast river of ice, wound among its dependent mountains, whose aerial summits hung over its recesses.
Their icy and glittering peaks shone in the sunlight over the clouds.
He bounded over the crevices in the ice, among which I had walked with caution; his stature, also, as he approached, seemed to exceed that of man.
I was troubled; a mist came over my eyes, and I felt a faintness seize me, but I was quickly restored by the cold gale of the mountains.
I perceived, as the shape came nearer (sight tremendous and abhorred!) that it was the wretch whom I had created.
I trembled with rage and horror, resolving to wait his approach and then close with him in mortal combat.
He approached; his countenance bespoke bitter anguish, combined with disdain and malignity, while its unearthly ugliness rendered it almost too horrible for human eyes.
But I scarcely observed this; rage and hatred had at first deprived me of utterance, and I recovered only to overwhelm him with words expressive of furious detestation and contempt. "Devil," I exclaimed, "do you dare approach me?
And do not you fear the fierce vengeance of my arm wreaked on your miserable head? Begone, vile insect!
Or rather, stay, that I may trample you to dust!
That I could, with the extinction of your miserable existence, restore those victims whom you have so diabolically murdered!" "I expected this reception," said the daemon.
All men hate the wretched; how, then, must I be hated, who am miserable beyond all living things!
Yet you, my creator, detest and spurn me, thy creature, to whom thou art bound by ties only dissoluble by the annihilation of one of us.
You purpose to kill me.
How dare you sport thus with life? Do your duty towards me, and I will do mine towards you and the rest of mankind.
If you will comply with my conditions, I will leave them and you at peace; but if you refuse, I will glut the maw of death, until it be satiated with the blood of your remaining friends." "Abhorred monster!
The tortures of hell are too mild a vengeance for thy crimes.
I entreat you to hear me before you give vent to your hatred on my devoted head.
Have I not suffered enough, that you seek to increase my misery?
Life, although it may only be an accumulation of anguish, is dear to me, and I will defend it.
Remember, thou hast made me more powerful than thyself; my height is superior to thine, my joints more supple.
But I will not be tempted to set myself in opposition to thee.
I am thy creature, and I will be even mild and docile to my natural lord and king if thou wilt also perform thy part, the which thou owest me.
Oh, Frankenstein, be not equitable to every other and trample upon me alone, to whom thy justice, and even thy clemency and affection, is most due.
Remember that I am thy creature; I ought to be thy Adam, but I am rather the fallen angel, whom thou drivest from joy for no misdeed.
Everywhere I see bliss, from which I alone am irrevocably excluded.
I was benevolent and good; misery made me a fiend.
Make me happy, and I shall again be virtuous." "Begone!
I will not hear you.
There can be no community between you and me; we are enemies.
Begone, or let us try our strength in a fight, in which one must fall." "How can I move thee?
Will no entreaties cause thee to turn a favourable eye upon thy creature, who implores thy goodness and compassion?
Believe me, Frankenstein, I was benevolent; my soul glowed with love and humanity; but am I not alone, miserably alone?
You, my creator, abhor me; what hope can I gather from your fellow creatures, who owe me nothing?
They spurn and hate me.
The desert mountains and dreary glaciers are my refuge.
I have wandered here many days; the caves of ice, which I only do not fear, are a dwelling to me, and the only one which man does not grudge.
These bleak skies I hail, for they are kinder to me than your fellow beings.
If the multitude of mankind knew of my existence, they would do as you do, and arm themselves for my destruction.
Shall I not then hate them who abhor me?
I will keep no terms with my enemies.
I am miserable, and they shall share my wretchedness.
Let your compassion be moved, and do not disdain me.
Listen to my tale; when you have heard that, abandon or commiserate me, as you shall judge that I deserve. But hear me.
The guilty are allowed, by human laws, bloody as they are, to speak in their own defence before they are condemned.
You accuse me of murder, and yet you would, with a satisfied conscience, destroy your own creature.
Oh, praise the eternal justice of man!
Cursed be the day, abhorred devil, in which you first saw light!
Cursed (although I curse myself) be the hands that formed you! You have made me wretched beyond expression.
You have left me no power to consider whether I am just to you or not.
Still thou canst listen to me and grant me thy compassion.
By the virtues that I once possessed, I demand this from you.
Hear my tale; it is long and strange, and the temperature of this place is not fitting to your fine sensations; come to the hut upon the mountain.
The sun is yet high in the heavens; before it descends to hide itself behind your snowy precipices and illuminate another world, you will have heard my story and can decide.
My heart was full, and I did not answer him, but as I proceeded, I weighed the various arguments that he had used and determined at least to listen to his tale.
I was partly urged by curiosity, and compassion confirmed my resolution.
These motives urged me to comply with his demand.
We crossed the ice, therefore, and ascended the opposite rock.
The air was cold, and the rain again began to descend; we entered the hut, the fiend with an air of exultation, I with a heavy heart and depressed spirits.
By degrees, I remember, a stronger light pressed upon my nerves, so that I was obliged to shut my eyes.
Darkness then came over me and troubled me, but hardly had I felt this when, by opening my eyes, as I now suppose, the light poured in upon me again.
The light became more and more oppressive to me, and the heat wearying me as I walked, I sought a place where I could receive shade.
This was the forest near Ingolstadt; and here I lay by the side of a brook resting from my fatigue, until I felt tormented by hunger and thirst.
This roused me from my nearly dormant state, and I ate some berries which I found hanging on the trees or lying on the ground.
I slaked my thirst at the brook, and then lying down, was overcome by sleep. "It was dark when I awoke; I felt cold also, and half frightened, as it were, instinctively, finding myself so desolate.
Before I had quitted your apartment, on a sensation of cold, I had covered myself with some clothes, but these were insufficient to secure me from the dews of night.
I started up and beheld a radiant form rise from among the trees. [The moon] I gazed with a kind of wonder.
No distinct ideas occupied my mind; all was confused.
I gradually saw plainly the clear stream that supplied me with drink and the trees that shaded me with their foliage.
I was delighted when I first discovered that a pleasant sound, which often saluted my ears, proceeded from the throats of the little winged animals who had often intercepted the light from my eyes.
I began also to observe, with greater accuracy, the forms that surrounded me and to perceive the boundaries of the radiant roof of light which canopied me.
My sensations had by this time become distinct, and my mind received every day additional ideas.
My eyes became accustomed to the light and to perceive objects in their right forms; I distinguished the insect from the herb, and by degrees, one herb from another.
In my joy I thrust my hand into the live embers, but quickly drew it out again with a cry of pain.
How strange, I thought, that the same cause should produce such opposite effects!
I examined the materials of the fire, and to my joy found it to be composed of wood.
I quickly collected some branches, but they were wet and would not burn.
I was pained at this and sat still watching the operation of the fire.
The wet wood which I had placed near the heat dried and itself became inflamed.
I reflected on this, and by touching the various branches, I discovered the cause and busied myself in collecting a great quantity of wood, that I might dry it and have a plentiful supply of fire.
When night came on and brought sleep with it, I was in the greatest fear lest my fire should be extinguished.
I observed this also and contrived a fan of branches, which roused the embers when they were nearly extinguished.
I tried, therefore, to dress my food in the same manner, placing it on the live embers.
When I found this, I resolved to quit the place that I had hitherto inhabited, to seek for one where the few wants I experienced would be more easily satisfied.
In this emigration I exceedingly lamented the loss of the fire which I had obtained through accident and knew not how to reproduce it.
This was a new sight to me, and I examined the structure with great curiosity.
Finding the door open, I entered.
An old man sat in it, near a fire, over which he was preparing his breakfast.
He turned on hearing a noise, and perceiving me, shrieked loudly, and quitting the hut, ran across the fields with a speed of which his debilitated form hardly appeared capable.
His appearance, different from any I had ever before seen, and his flight somewhat surprised me.
I greedily devoured the remnants of the shepherd's breakfast, which consisted of bread, cheese, milk, and wine; the latter, however, I did not like.
How miraculous did this appear!
The huts, the neater cottages, and stately houses engaged my admiration by turns.
The vegetables in the gardens, the milk and cheese that I saw placed at the windows of some of the cottages, allured my appetite.
This hovel however, joined a cottage of a neat and pleasant appearance, but after my late dearly bought experience, I dared not enter it.
My place of refuge was constructed of wood, but so low that I could with difficulty sit upright in it.
As soon as morning dawned I crept from my kennel, that I might view the adjacent cottage and discover if I could remain in the habitation I had found.
It was situated against the back of the cottage and surrounded on the sides which were exposed by a pig sty and a clear pool of water.
It was indeed a paradise compared to the bleak forest, my former residence, the rain-dropping branches, and dank earth.
The girl was young and of gentle demeanour, unlike what I have since found cottagers and farmhouse servants to be.
Yet she was meanly dressed, a coarse blue petticoat and a linen jacket being her only garb; her fair hair was plaited but not adorned: she looked patient yet sad.
I lost sight of her, and in about a quarter of an hour she returned bearing the pail, which was now partly filled with milk.
As she walked along, seemingly incommoded by the burden, a young man met her, whose countenance expressed a deeper despondence.
Uttering a few sounds with an air of melancholy, he took the pail from her head and bore it to the cottage himself.
She followed, and they disappeared.
In one of these was a small and almost imperceptible chink through which the eye could just penetrate. Through this crevice a small room was visible, whitewashed and clean but very bare of furniture.
In one corner, near a small fire, sat an old man, leaning his head on his hands in a disconsolate attitude.
It was a lovely sight, even to me, poor wretch who had never beheld aught beautiful before.
The silver hair and benevolent countenance of the aged cottager won my reverence, while the gentle manners of the girl enticed my love.
She seemed pleased and went into the garden for some roots and plants, which she placed in water, and then upon the fire.
She afterwards continued her work, whilst the young man went into the garden and appeared busily employed in digging and pulling up roots.
The meal was quickly dispatched.
In the evening the young girl and her companion were employed in various occupations which I did not understand; and the old man again took up the instrument which produced the divine sounds that had enchanted me in the morning.
I thought of the occurrences of the day.
What chiefly struck me was the gentle manners of these people, and I longed to join them, but dared not.
The old man, whom I soon perceived to be blind, employed his leisure hours on his instrument or in contemplation.
Nothing could exceed the love and respect which the younger cottagers exhibited towards their venerable companion.
They performed towards him every little office of affection and duty with gentleness, and he rewarded them by his benevolent smiles. "They were not entirely happy.
The young man and his companion often went apart and appeared to weep.
I saw no cause for their unhappiness, but I was deeply affected by it.
If such lovely creatures were miserable, it was less strange that I, an imperfect and solitary being, should be wretched.
Yet why were these gentle beings unhappy?
What did their tears imply?
Did they really express pain?
Their nourishment consisted entirely of the vegetables of their garden and the milk of one cow, which gave very little during the winter, when its masters could scarcely procure food to support it.
They often, I believe, suffered the pangs of hunger very poignantly, especially the two younger cottagers, for several times they placed food before the old man when they reserved none for themselves. "This trait of kindness moved me sensibly.
She uttered some words in a loud voice, and the youth joined her, who also expressed surprise.
I observed, with pleasure, that he did not go to the forest that day, but spent it in repairing the cottage and cultivating the garden. "By degrees I made a discovery of still greater moment.
I found that these people possessed a method of communicating their experience and feelings to one another by articulate sounds.
I perceived that the words they spoke sometimes produced pleasure or pain, smiles or sadness, in the minds and countenances of the hearers.
This was indeed a godlike science, and I ardently desired to become acquainted with it.
But I was baffled in every attempt I made for this purpose.
Their pronunciation was quick, and the words they uttered, not having any apparent connection with visible objects, I was unable to discover any clue by which I could unravel the mystery of their reference.
The youth and his companion had each of them several names, but the old man had only one, which was _father._ The girl was called _sister_ or _Agatha,_ and the youth _Felix, brother,_ or _son_.
I cannot describe the delight I felt when I learned the ideas appropriated to each of these sounds and was able to pronounce them.
I distinguished several other words without being able as yet to understand or apply them, such as _good, dearest, unhappy._ "I spent the winter in this manner.
The gentle manners and beauty of the cottagers greatly endeared them to me; when they were unhappy, I felt depressed; when they rejoiced, I sympathised in their joys.
I saw few human beings besides them, and if any other happened to enter the cottage, their harsh manners and rude gait only enhanced to me the superior accomplishments of my friends.
The old man, I could perceive, often endeavoured to encourage his children, as sometimes I found that he called them, to cast off their melancholy.
He would talk in a cheerful accent, with an expression of goodness that bestowed pleasure even upon me.
Agatha listened with respect, her eyes sometimes filled with tears, which she endeavoured to wipe away unperceived; but I generally found that her countenance and tone were more cheerful after having listened to the exhortations of her father.
It was not thus with Felix.
He was always the saddest of the group, and even to my unpractised senses, he appeared to have suffered more deeply than his friends.
But if his countenance was more sorrowful, his voice was more cheerful than that of his sister, especially when he addressed the old man. "I could mention innumerable instances which, although slight, marked the dispositions of these amiable cottagers.
In the midst of poverty and want, Felix carried with pleasure to his sister the first little white flower that peeped out from beneath the snowy ground.
In the day, I believe, he worked sometimes for a neighbouring farmer, because he often went forth and did not return until dinner, yet brought no wood with him.
I did not yet entirely know the fatal effects of this miserable deformity. "As the sun became warmer and the light of day longer, the snow vanished, and I beheld the bare trees and the black earth.
From this time Felix was more employed, and the heart-moving indications of impending famine disappeared.
This frequently took place, but a high wind quickly dried the earth, and the season became far more pleasant than it had been. "My mode of life in my hovel was uniform.
During the morning I attended the motions of the cottagers, and when they were dispersed in various occupations, I slept; the remainder of the day was spent in observing my friends.
When they had retired to rest, if there was any moon or the night was star-light, I went into the woods and collected my own food and fuel for the cottage.
When I returned, as often as it was necessary, I cleared their path from the snow and performed those offices that I had seen done by Felix.
I thought (foolish wretch!) that it might be in my power to restore happiness to these deserving people.
When I slept or was absent, the forms of the venerable blind father, the gentle Agatha, and the excellent Felix flitted before me.
I looked upon them as superior beings who would be the arbiters of my future destiny.
I formed in my imagination a thousand pictures of presenting myself to them, and their reception of me.
Men who before this change seemed to have been hid in caves dispersed themselves and were employed in various arts of cultivation.
The birds sang in more cheerful notes, and the leaves began to bud forth on the trees.
Fit habitation for gods, which, so short a time before, was bleak, damp, and unwholesome.
I shall relate events that impressed me with feelings which, from what I had been, have made me what I am. "Spring advanced rapidly; the weather became fine and the skies cloudless.
It surprised me that what before was desert and gloomy should now bloom with the most beautiful flowers and verdure.
Agatha asked a question, to which the stranger only replied by pronouncing, in a sweet accent, the name of Felix.
Her voice was musical but unlike that of either of my friends.
On hearing this word, Felix came up hastily to the lady, who, when she saw him, threw up her veil, and I beheld a countenance of angelic beauty and expression.
She appeared affected by different feelings; wiping a few tears from her lovely eyes, she held out her hand to Felix, who kissed it rapturously and called her, as well as I could distinguish, his sweet Arabian.
She did not appear to understand him, but smiled.
He assisted her to dismount, and dismissing her guide, conducted her into the cottage.
They made many signs which I did not comprehend, but I saw that her presence diffused gladness through the cottage, dispelling their sorrow as the sun dissipates the morning mists.
Felix seemed peculiarly happy and with smiles of delight welcomed his Arabian.
Agatha, the ever-gentle Agatha, kissed the hands of the lovely stranger, and pointing to her brother, made signs which appeared to me to mean that he had been sorrowful until she came.
Some hours passed thus, while they, by their countenances, expressed joy, the cause of which I did not comprehend.
The stranger learned about twenty words at the first lesson; most of them, indeed, were those which I had before understood, but I profited by the others. "As night came on, Agatha and the Arabian retired early.
When they separated Felix kissed the hand of the stranger and said, 'Good night sweet Safie.
He sat up much longer, conversing with his father, and by the frequent repetition of her name I conjectured that their lovely guest was the subject of their conversation.
She sang, and her voice flowed in a rich cadence, swelling or dying away like a nightingale of the woods. "When she had finished, she gave the guitar to Agatha, who at first declined it.
She played a simple air, and her voice accompanied it in sweet accents, but unlike the wondrous strain of the stranger.
I should not have understood the purport of this book had not Felix, in reading it, given very minute explanations.
He had chosen this work, he said, because the declamatory style was framed in imitation of the Eastern authors.
I heard of the slothful Asiatics, of the stupendous genius and mental activity of the Grecians, of the wars and wonderful virtue of the early Romans-of their subsequent degenerating-of the decline of that mighty empire, of chivalry, Christianity, and kings.
I heard of the discovery of the American hemisphere and wept with Safie over the hapless fate of its original inhabitants. "These wonderful narrations inspired me with strange feelings.
Was man, indeed, at once so powerful, so virtuous and magnificent, yet so vicious and base?
He appeared at one time a mere scion of the evil principle and at another as all that can be conceived of noble and godlike.
I heard of the division of property, of immense wealth and squalid poverty, of rank, descent, and noble blood. "The words induced me to turn towards myself.
I learned that the possessions most esteemed by your fellow creatures were high and unsullied descent united with riches.
A man might be respected with only one of these advantages, but without either he was considered, except in very rare instances, as a vagabond and a slave, doomed to waste his powers for the profits of the chosen few!
Of my creation and creator I was absolutely ignorant, but I knew that I possessed no money, no friends, no kind of property.
I was, besides, endued with a figure hideously deformed and loathsome; I was not even of the same nature as man.
I was more agile than they and could subsist upon coarser diet; I bore the extremes of heat and cold with less injury to my frame; my stature far exceeded theirs.
When I looked around I saw and heard of none like me.
Oh, that I had for ever remained in my native wood, nor known nor felt beyond the sensations of hunger, thirst, and heat! "Of what a strange nature is knowledge!
It clings to the mind when it has once seized on it like a lichen on the rock.
I wished sometimes to shake off all thought and feeling, but I learned that there was but one means to overcome the sensation of pain, and that was death-a state which I feared yet did not understand.
The gentle words of Agatha and the animated smiles of the charming Arabian were not for me.
The mild exhortations of the old man and the lively conversation of the loved Felix were not for me.
Miserable, unhappy wretch! "Other lessons were impressed upon me even more deeply.
No father had watched my infant days, no mother had blessed me with smiles and caresses; or if they had, all my past life was now a blot, a blind vacancy in which I distinguished nothing.
From my earliest remembrance I had been as I then was in height and proportion.
I had never yet seen a being resembling me or who claimed any intercourse with me.
He was descended from a good family in France, where he had lived for many years in affluence, respected by his superiors and beloved by his equals.
His son was bred in the service of his country, and Agatha had ranked with ladies of the highest distinction.
He was tried and condemned to death.
He made, at that moment, a solemn vow to deliver him and then looked around for the means.
Felix visited the grate at night and made known to the prisoner his intentions in his favour.
The Turk, amazed and delighted, endeavoured to kindle the zeal of his deliverer by promises of reward and wealth.
The young girl spoke in high and enthusiastic terms of her mother, who, born in freedom, spurned the bondage to which she was now reduced.
She instructed her daughter in the tenets of her religion and taught her to aspire to higher powers of intellect and an independence of spirit forbidden to the female followers of Muhammad.
Felix had procured passports in the name of his father, sister, and himself.
He revolved a thousand plans by which he should be enabled to prolong the deceit until it might be no longer necessary, and secretly to take his daughter with him when he departed.
His plans were facilitated by the news which arrived from Paris. "The government of France were greatly enraged at the escape of their victim and spared no pains to detect and punish his deliverer.
The plot of Felix was quickly discovered, and De Lacey and Agatha were thrown into prison.
The news reached Felix and roused him from his dream of pleasure.
His blind and aged father and his gentle sister lay in a noisome dungeon while he enjoyed the free air and the society of her whom he loved.
This idea was torture to him.
He could have endured poverty, and while this distress had been the meed of his virtue, he gloried in it; but the ingratitude of the Turk and the loss of his beloved Safie were misfortunes more bitter and irreparable.
A residence in Turkey was abhorrent to her; her religion and her feelings were alike averse to it.
By some papers of her father which fell into her hands she heard of the exile of her lover and learnt the name of the spot where he then resided.
She hesitated some time, but at length she formed her determination.
She fell, however, into good hands.
The possession of these treasures gave me extreme delight; I now continually studied and exercised my mind upon these histories, whilst my friends were employed in their ordinary occupations. "I can hardly describe to you the effect of these books.
They produced in me an infinity of new images and feelings, that sometimes raised me to ecstasy, but more frequently sunk me into the lowest dejection.
But I thought Werter himself a more divine being than I had ever beheld or imagined; his character contained no pretension, but it sank deep.
The disquisitions upon death and suicide were calculated to fill me with wonder.
I found myself similar yet at the same time strangely unlike to the beings concerning whom I read and to whose conversation I was a listener.
I sympathised with and partly understood them, but I was unformed in mind; I was dependent on none and related to none. 'The path of my departure was free,' and there was none to lament my annihilation.
My person was hideous and my stature gigantic.
These questions continually recurred, but I was unable to solve them. "The volume of _Plutarch's Lives_ which I possessed contained the histories of the first founders of the ancient republics.
This book had a far different effect upon me from the _Sorrows of Werter_.
I learned from Werter's imaginations despondency and gloom, but Plutarch taught me high thoughts; he elevated me above the wretched sphere of my own reflections, to admire and love the heroes of past ages.
Many things I read surpassed my understanding and experience.
I had a very confused knowledge of kingdoms, wide extents of country, mighty rivers, and boundless seas.
But I was perfectly unacquainted with towns and large assemblages of men.
The cottage of my protectors had been the only school in which I had studied human nature, but this book developed new and mightier scenes of action.
I read of men concerned in public affairs, governing or massacring their species.
I felt the greatest ardour for virtue rise within me, and abhorrence for vice, as far as I understood the signification of those terms, relative as they were, as I applied them, to pleasure and pain alone.
Induced by these feelings, I was of course led to admire peaceable lawgivers, Numa, Solon, and Lycurgus, in preference to Romulus and Theseus.
I read it, as I had read the other volumes which had fallen into my hands, as a true history.
It moved every feeling of wonder and awe that the picture of an omnipotent God warring with his creatures was capable of exciting.
I often referred the several situations, as their similarity struck me, to my own.
Like Adam, I was apparently united by no link to any other being in existence; but his state was far different from mine in every other respect.
Soon after my arrival in the hovel I discovered some papers in the pocket of the dress which I had taken from your laboratory.
At first I had neglected them, but now that I was able to decipher the characters in which they were written, I began to study them with diligence.
It was your journal of the four months that preceded my creation.
You minutely described in these papers every step you took in the progress of your work; this history was mingled with accounts of domestic occurrences.
You doubtless recollect these papers.
I sickened as I read.
Hateful day when I received life!
Accursed creator! Why did you form a monster so hideous that even _you_ turned from me in disgust?
God, in pity, made man beautiful and alluring, after his own image; but my form is a filthy type of yours, more horrid even from the very resemblance.
Could they turn from their door one, however monstrous, who solicited their compassion and friendship?
I resolved, at least, not to despair, but in every way to fit myself for an interview with them which would decide my fate.
The presence of Safie diffused happiness among its inhabitants, and I also found that a greater degree of plenty reigned there.
Felix and Agatha spent more time in amusement and conversation, and were assisted in their labours by servants.
They did not appear rich, but they were contented and happy; their feelings were serene and peaceful, while mine became every day more tumultuous.
Increase of knowledge only discovered to me more clearly what a wretched outcast I was.
But it was all a dream; no Eve soothed my sorrows nor shared my thoughts; I was alone.
I remembered Adam's supplication to his Creator.
He had abandoned me, and in the bitterness of my heart I cursed him. "Autumn passed thus.
I saw, with surprise and grief, the leaves decay and fall, and nature again assume the barren and bleak appearance it had worn when I first beheld the woods and the lovely moon.
Yet I did not heed the bleakness of the weather; I was better fitted by my conformation for the endurance of cold than heat.
But my chief delights were the sight of the flowers, the birds, and all the gay apparel of summer; when those deserted me, I turned with more attention towards the cottagers.
Their happiness was not decreased by the absence of summer.
They loved and sympathised with one another; and their joys, depending on each other, were not interrupted by the casualties that took place around them.
I dared not think that they would turn them from me with disdain and horror.
The poor that stopped at their door were never driven away.
My attention at this time was solely directed towards my plan of introducing myself into the cottage of my protectors.
When his children had departed, he took up his guitar and played several mournful but sweet airs, more sweet and mournful than I had ever heard him play before.
The servants were gone to a neighbouring fair.
All was silent in and around the cottage; it was an excellent opportunity; yet, when I proceeded to execute my plan, my limbs failed me and I sank to the ground.
Again I rose, and exerting all the firmness of which I was master, removed the planks which I had placed before my hovel to conceal my retreat.
The fresh air revived me, and with renewed determination I approached the door of their cottage. "I knocked.
Who is there?' said the old man.
I am now going to claim the protection of some friends, whom I sincerely love, and of whose favour I have some hopes.' "'Are they Germans?' "'No, they are French.
But let us change the subject.
I am an unfortunate and deserted creature, I look around and I have no relation or friend upon earth.
These amiable people to whom I go have never seen me and know little of me.
I am full of fears, for if I fail there, I am an outcast in the world for ever.' "'Do not despair.
To be friendless is indeed to be unfortunate, but the hearts of men, when unprejudiced by any obvious self-interest, are full of brotherly love and charity.
Rely, therefore, on your hopes; and if these friends are good and amiable, do not despair.' "'They are kind-they are the most excellent creatures in the world; but, unfortunately, they are prejudiced against me.
I am blind and cannot judge of your countenance, but there is something in your words which persuades me that you are sincere.
I am poor and an exile, but it will afford me true pleasure to be in any way serviceable to a human creature.' "'Excellent man!
I thank you and accept your generous offer.
You raise me from the dust by this kindness; and I trust that, by your aid, I shall not be driven from the society and sympathy of your fellow creatures.' "'Heaven forbid!
Even if you were really criminal, for that can only drive you to desperation, and not instigate you to virtue.
I also am unfortunate; I and my family have been condemned, although innocent; judge, therefore, if I do not feel for your misfortunes.' "'How can I thank you, my best and only benefactor?
This, I thought, was the moment of decision, which was to rob me of or bestow happiness on me for ever.
I struggled vainly for firmness sufficient to answer him, but the effort destroyed all my remaining strength; I sank on the chair and sobbed aloud.
At that moment I heard the steps of my younger protectors.
I had not a moment to lose, but seizing the hand of the old man, I cried, 'Now is the time!
You and your family are the friends whom I seek.
Do not you desert me in the hour of trial!' "'Great God!' exclaimed the old man.
Who are you?' "At that instant the cottage door was opened, and Felix, Safie, and Agatha entered.
Who can describe their horror and consternation on beholding me?
Agatha fainted, and Safie, unable to attend to her friend, rushed out of the cottage.
Felix darted forward, and with supernatural force tore me from his father, to whose knees I clung, in a transport of fury, he dashed me to the ground and struck me violently with a stick.
I could have torn him limb from limb, as the lion rends the antelope.
But my heart sank within me as with bitter sickness, and I refrained.
I saw him on the point of repeating his blow, when, overcome by pain and anguish, I quitted the cottage, and in the general tumult escaped unperceived to my hovel." Chapter 16 "Cursed, cursed creator!
Why, in that instant, did I not extinguish the spark of existence which you had so wantonly bestowed?
I know not; despair had not yet taken possession of me; my feelings were those of rage and revenge.
I was like a wild beast that had broken the toils, destroying the objects that obstructed me and ranging through the wood with a stag-like swiftness.
What a miserable night I passed!
The cold stars shone in mockery, and the bare trees waved their branches above me; now and then the sweet voice of a bird burst forth amidst the universal stillness.
There was none among the myriads of men that existed who would pity or assist me; and should I feel kindness towards my enemies?
I had certainly acted imprudently.
It was apparent that my conversation had interested the father in my behalf, and I was a fool in having exposed my person to the horror of his children.
I ought to have familiarised the old De Lacey to me, and by degrees to have discovered myself to the rest of his family, when they should have been prepared for my approach.
The horrible scene of the preceding day was for ever acting before my eyes; the females were flying and the enraged Felix tearing me from his father's feet.
I awoke exhausted, and finding that it was already night, I crept forth from my hiding-place, and went in search of food. "When my hunger was appeased, I directed my steps towards the well-known path that conducted to the cottage.
All there was at peace. I crept into my hovel and remained in silent expectation of the accustomed hour when the family arose.
That hour passed, the sun mounted high in the heavens, but the cottagers did not appear.
I trembled violently, apprehending some dreadful misfortune.
I do not wish to take any unfair advantage, and I beg therefore that you will take some days to consider of your determination.' "'It is utterly useless,' replied Felix; 'we can never again inhabit your cottage.
The life of my father is in the greatest danger, owing to the dreadful circumstance that I have related.
My wife and my sister will never recover from their horror.
I entreat you not to reason with me any more.
Take possession of your tenement and let me fly from this place.' "Felix trembled violently as he said this.
He and his companion entered the cottage, in which they remained for a few minutes, and then departed.
I never saw any of the family of De Lacey more. "I continued for the remainder of the day in my hovel in a state of utter and stupid despair.
My protectors had departed and had broken the only link that held me to the world.
For the first time the feelings of revenge and hatred filled my bosom, and I did not strive to control them, but allowing myself to be borne away by the stream, I bent my mind towards injury and death.
When I thought of my friends, of the mild voice of De Lacey, the gentle eyes of Agatha, and the exquisite beauty of the Arabian, these thoughts vanished and a gush of tears somewhat soothed me.
But again when I reflected that they had spurned and deserted me, anger returned, a rage of anger, and unable to injure anything human, I turned my fury towards inanimate objects.
I lighted the dry branch of a tree and danced with fury around the devoted cottage, my eyes still fixed on the western horizon, the edge of which the moon nearly touched.
A part of its orb was at length hid, and I waved my brand; it sank, and with a loud scream I fired the straw, and heath, and bushes, which I had collected.
I resolved to fly far from the scene of my misfortunes; but to me, hated and despised, every country must be equally horrible.
At length the thought of you crossed my mind.
I learned from your papers that you were my father, my creator; and to whom could I apply with more fitness than to him who had given me life?
I knew that I must travel in a southwesterly direction to reach my destination, but the sun was my only guide.
I did not know the names of the towns that I was to pass through, nor could I ask information from a single human being; but I did not despair.
From you only could I hope for succour, although towards you I felt no sentiment but that of hatred.
It was late in autumn when I quitted the district where I had so long resided. I travelled only at night, fearful of encountering the visage of a human being.
Nature decayed around me, and the sun became heatless; rain and snow poured around me; mighty rivers were frozen; the surface of the earth was hard and chill, and bare, and I found no shelter.
How often did I imprecate curses on the cause of my being!
The mildness of my nature had fled, and all within me was turned to gall and bitterness.
The nearer I approached to your habitation, the more deeply did I feel the spirit of revenge enkindled in my heart.
Snow fell, and the waters were hardened, but I rested not.
A few incidents now and then directed me, and I possessed a map of the country; but I often wandered wide from my path.
I felt emotions of gentleness and pleasure, that had long appeared dead, revive within me.
Half surprised by the novelty of these sensations, I allowed myself to be borne away by them, and forgetting my solitude and deformity, dared to be happy.
I was scarcely hid when a young girl came running towards the spot where I was concealed, laughing, as if she ran from someone in sport.
She continued her course along the precipitous sides of the river, when suddenly her foot slipped, and she fell into the rapid stream.
I rushed from my hiding-place and with extreme labour, from the force of the current, saved her and dragged her to shore.
She was senseless, and I endeavoured by every means in my power to restore animation, when I was suddenly interrupted by the approach of a rustic, who was probably the person from whom she had playfully fled.
On seeing me, he darted towards me, and tearing the girl from my arms, hastened towards the deeper parts of the wood.
I followed speedily, I hardly knew why; but when the man saw me draw near, he aimed a gun, which he carried, at my body and fired.
I sank to the ground, and my injurer, with increased swiftness, escaped into the wood. "This was then the reward of my benevolence!
I had saved a human being from destruction, and as a recompense I now writhed under the miserable pain of a wound which shattered the flesh and bone.
The feelings of kindness and gentleness which I had entertained but a few moments before gave place to hellish rage and gnashing of teeth.
Inflamed by pain, I vowed eternal hatred and vengeance to all mankind.
But the agony of my wound overcame me; my pulses paused, and I fainted. "For some weeks I led a miserable life in the woods, endeavouring to cure the wound which I had received.
The ball had entered my shoulder, and I knew not whether it had remained there or passed through; at any rate I had no means of extracting it.
My sufferings were augmented also by the oppressive sense of the injustice and ingratitude of their infliction.
My daily vows rose for revenge-a deep and deadly revenge, such as would alone compensate for the outrages and anguish I had endured. "After some weeks my wound healed, and I continued my journey.
Suddenly, as I gazed on him, an idea seized me that this little creature was unprejudiced and had lived too short a time to have imbibed a horror of deformity.
As soon as he beheld my form, he placed his hands before his eyes and uttered a shrill scream; I drew his hand forcibly from his face and said, 'Child, what is the meaning of this?
I do not intend to hurt you; listen to me.' "He struggled violently.
Let me go,' he cried; 'monster!
You wish to eat me and tear me to pieces.
Let me go, or I will tell my papa.' "'Boy, you will never see your father again; you must come with me.' "'Hideous monster!
My papa is a syndic-he is M. Frankenstein-he will punish you.
I took it; it was a portrait of a most lovely woman.
In spite of my malignity, it softened and attracted me.
A woman was sleeping on some straw; she was young, not indeed so beautiful as her whose portrait I held, but of an agreeable aspect and blooming in the loveliness of youth and health.
Here, I thought, is one of those whose joy-imparting smiles are bestowed on all but me.
Should she indeed awake, and see me, and curse me, and denounce the murderer?
The crime had its source in her; be hers the punishment!
Thanks to the lessons of Felix and the sanguinary laws of man, I had learned now to work mischief.
I bent over her and placed the portrait securely in one of the folds of her dress.
She moved again, and I fled. "For some days I haunted the spot where these scenes had taken place, sometimes wishing to see you, sometimes resolved to quit the world and its miseries for ever.
At length I wandered towards these mountains, and have ranged through their immense recesses, consumed by a burning passion which you alone can gratify.
We may not part until you have promised to comply with my requisition.
I am alone and miserable; man will not associate with me; but one as deformed and horrible as myself would not deny herself to me.
My companion must be of the same species and have the same defects.
This being you must create." Chapter 17 The being finished speaking and fixed his looks upon me in the expectation of a reply.
But I was bewildered, perplexed, and unable to arrange my ideas sufficiently to understand the full extent of his proposition.
He continued, "You must create a female for me with whom I can live in the interchange of those sympathies necessary for my being.
You may render me the most miserable of men, but you shall never make me base in my own eyes.
Shall I create another like yourself, whose joint wickedness might desolate the world.
I have answered you; you may torture me, but I will never consent." "You are in the wrong," replied the fiend; "and instead of threatening, I am content to reason with you.
I am malicious because I am miserable.
Am I not shunned and hated by all mankind?
You, my creator, would tear me to pieces and triumph; remember that, and tell me why I should pity man more than he pities me?
You would not call it murder if you could precipitate me into one of those ice-rifts and destroy my frame, the work of your own hands.
Shall I respect man when he condemns me?
Yet mine shall not be the submission of abject slavery.
I will revenge my injuries; if I cannot inspire love, I will cause fear, and chiefly towards you my arch-enemy, because my creator, do I swear inextinguishable hatred.
This passion is detrimental to me, for you do not reflect that _you_ are the cause of its excess.
If any being felt emotions of benevolence towards me, I should return them a hundred and a hundredfold; for that one creature's sake I would make peace with the whole kind!
It is true, we shall be monsters, cut off from all the world; but on that account we shall be more attached to one another.
Our lives will not be happy, but they will be harmless and free from the misery I now feel.
My creator, make me happy; let me feel gratitude towards you for one benefit!
Let me see that I excite the sympathy of some existing thing; do not deny me my request!" I was moved.
He saw my change of feeling and continued, "If you consent, neither you nor any other human being shall ever see us again; I will go to the vast wilds of South America.
My food is not that of man; I do not destroy the lamb and the kid to glut my appetite; acorns and berries afford me sufficient nourishment.
My companion will be of the same nature as myself and will be content with the same fare. We shall make our bed of dried leaves; the sun will shine on us as on man and will ripen our food.
The picture I present to you is peaceful and human, and you must feel that you could deny it only in the wantonness of power and cruelty.
How can you, who long for the love and sympathy of man, persevere in this exile?
My evil passions will have fled, for I shall meet with sympathy!
My life will flow quietly away, and in my dying moments I shall not curse my maker." His words had a strange effect upon me.
May not even this be a feint that will increase your triumph by affording a wider scope for your revenge?" "How is this?
I must not be trifled with, and I demand an answer.
If I have no ties and no affections, hatred and vice must be my portion; the love of another will destroy the cause of my crimes, and I shall become a thing of whose existence everyone will be ignorant.
My vices are the children of a forced solitude that I abhor, and my virtues will necessarily arise when I live in communion with an equal.
I thought of the promise of virtues which he had displayed on the opening of his existence and the subsequent blight of all kindly feeling by the loathing and scorn which his protectors had manifested towards him.
I knew that I ought to hasten my descent towards the valley, as I should soon be encompassed in darkness; but my heart was heavy, and my steps slow.
The labour of winding among the little paths of the mountain and fixing my feet firmly as I advanced perplexed me, occupied as I was by the emotions which the occurrences of the day had produced.
Night was far advanced when I came to the halfway resting-place and seated myself beside the fountain.
My haggard and wild appearance awoke intense alarm, but I answered no question, scarcely did I speak.
I felt as if I were placed under a ban-as if I had no right to claim their sympathies-as if never more might I enjoy companionship with them.
Yet even thus I loved them to adoration; and to save them, I resolved to dedicate myself to my most abhorred task.
I feared the vengeance of the disappointed fiend, yet I was unable to overcome my repugnance to the task which was enjoined me.
I found that I could not compose a female without again devoting several months to profound study and laborious disquisition.
A change indeed had taken place in me; my health, which had hitherto declined, was now much restored; and my spirits, when unchecked by the memory of my unhappy promise, rose proportionably.
At these moments I took refuge in the most perfect solitude.
I passed whole days on the lake alone in a little boat, watching the clouds and listening to the rippling of the waves, silent and listless.
And yet you are still unhappy and still avoid our society.
For some time I was lost in conjecture as to the cause of this, but yesterday an idea struck me, and if it is well founded, I conjure you to avow it.
You were attached to each other from your earliest infancy; you studied together, and appeared, in dispositions and tastes, entirely suited to one another.
But so blind is the experience of man that what I conceived to be the best assistants to my plan may have entirely destroyed it.
You, perhaps, regard her as your sister, without any wish that she might become your wife.
Nay, you may have met with another whom you may love; and considering yourself as bound in honour to Elizabeth, this struggle may occasion the poignant misery which you appear to feel." "My dear father, reassure yourself.
I love my cousin tenderly and sincerely.
I never saw any woman who excited, as Elizabeth does, my warmest admiration and affection.
My future hopes and prospects are entirely bound up in the expectation of our union." "The expression of your sentiments of this subject, my dear Victor, gives me more pleasure than I have for some time experienced.
If you feel thus, we shall assuredly be happy, however present events may cast a gloom over us.
But it is this gloom which appears to have taken so strong a hold of your mind that I wish to dissipate.
Tell me, therefore, whether you object to an immediate solemnisation of the marriage.
We have been unfortunate, and recent events have drawn us from that everyday tranquillity befitting my years and infirmities.
You are younger; yet I do not suppose, possessed as you are of a competent fortune, that an early marriage would at all interfere with any future plans of honour and utility that you may have formed.
Do not suppose, however, that I wish to dictate happiness to you or that a delay on your part would cause me any serious uneasiness.
Interpret my words with candour and answer me, I conjure you, with confidence and sincerity." I listened to my father in silence and remained for some time incapable of offering any reply.
I revolved rapidly in my mind a multitude of thoughts and endeavoured to arrive at some conclusion.
To me the idea of an immediate union with my Elizabeth was one of horror and dismay.
I was bound by a solemn promise which I had not yet fulfilled and dared not break, or if I did, what manifold miseries might not impend over me and my devoted family!
Could I enter into a festival with this deadly weight yet hanging round my neck and bowing me to the ground?
I knew that a thousand fearful accidents might occur, the slightest of which would disclose a tale to thrill all connected with me with horror.
I was aware also that I should often lose all self-command, all capacity of hiding the harrowing sensations that would possess me during the progress of my unearthly occupation.
I must absent myself from all I loved while thus employed.
Once commenced, it would quickly be achieved, and I might be restored to my family in peace and happiness.
My promise fulfilled, the monster would depart for ever.
Or (so my fond fancy imaged) some accident might meanwhile occur to destroy him and put an end to my slavery for ever. These feelings dictated my answer to my father.
One paternal kind precaution he had taken to ensure my having a companion.
Without previously communicating with me, he had, in concert with Elizabeth, arranged that Clerval should join me at Strasburgh.
Nay, Henry might stand between me and the intrusion of my foe.
My father's age rendered him extremely averse to delay.
During my absence I should leave my friends unconscious of the existence of their enemy and unprotected from his attacks, exasperated as he might be by my departure.
But he had promised to follow me wherever I might go, and would he not accompany me to England?
This imagination was dreadful in itself, but soothing inasmuch as it supposed the safety of my friends. I was agonised with the idea of the possibility that the reverse of this might happen.
My journey had been my own suggestion, and Elizabeth therefore acquiesced, but she was filled with disquiet at the idea of my suffering, away from her, the inroads of misery and grief.
It had been her care which provided me a companion in Clerval-and yet a man is blind to a thousand minute circumstances which call forth a woman's sedulous attention.
Filled with dreary imaginations, I passed through many beautiful and majestic scenes, but my eyes were fixed and unobserving.
Alas, how great was the contrast between us!
He was alive to every new scene, joyful when he saw the beauties of the setting sun, and more happy when he beheld it rise and recommence a new day.
He pointed out to me the shifting colours of the landscape and the appearances of the sky.
This is what it is to live," he cried; "now I enjoy existence!
But you, my dear Frankenstein, wherefore are you desponding and sorrowful!
In truth, I was occupied by gloomy thoughts and neither saw the descent of the evening star nor the golden sunrise reflected in the Rhine.
And you, my friend, would be far more amused with the journal of Clerval, who observed the scenery with an eye of feeling and delight, than in listening to my reflections.
I, a miserable wretch, haunted by a curse that shut up every avenue to enjoyment. We had agreed to descend the Rhine in a boat from Strasburgh to Rotterdam, whence we might take shipping for London.
During this voyage we passed many willowy islands and saw several beautiful towns. We stayed a day at Mannheim, and on the fifth from our departure from Strasburgh, arrived at Mainz.
The course of the Rhine below Mainz becomes much more picturesque.
The river descends rapidly and winds between hills, not high, but steep, and of beautiful forms.
We saw many ruined castles standing on the edges of precipices, surrounded by black woods, high and inaccessible.
This part of the Rhine, indeed, presents a singularly variegated landscape.
Even I, depressed in mind, and my spirits continually agitated by gloomy feelings, even I was pleased.
I lay at the bottom of the boat, and as I gazed on the cloudless blue sky, I seemed to drink in a tranquillity to which I had long been a stranger.
And if these were my sensations, who can describe those of Henry?
He felt as if he had been transported to Fairy-land and enjoyed a happiness seldom tasted by man.
Oh, surely the spirit that inhabits and guards this place has a soul more in harmony with man than those who pile the glacier or retire to the inaccessible peaks of the mountains of our own country." Clerval!
Even now it delights me to record your words and to dwell on the praise of which you are so eminently deserving.
He was a being formed in the "very poetry of nature.
His wild and enthusiastic imagination was chastened by the sensibility of his heart.
His soul overflowed with ardent affections, and his friendship was of that devoted and wondrous nature that the worldly-minded teach us to look for only in the imagination.
But even human sympathies were not sufficient to satisfy his eager mind.
Is this gentle and lovely being lost for ever?
Has this mind, so replete with ideas, imaginations fanciful and magnificent, which formed a world, whose existence depended on the life of its creator;-has this mind perished?
Does it now only exist in my memory?
The banks of the Thames presented a new scene; they were flat but fertile, and almost every town was marked by the remembrance of some story.
But a blight had come over my existence, and I only visited these people for the sake of the information they might give me on the subject in which my interest was so terribly profound.
Company was irksome to me; when alone, I could fill my mind with the sights of heaven and earth; the voice of Henry soothed me, and I could thus cheat myself into a transitory peace.
But busy, uninteresting, joyous faces brought back despair to my heart.
The difference of manners which he observed was to him an inexhaustible source of instruction and amusement.
He was also pursuing an object he had long had in view.
In Britain only could he further the execution of his plan.
He was for ever busy, and the only check to his enjoyments was my sorrowful and dejected mind.
I tried to conceal this as much as possible, that I might not debar him from the pleasures natural to one who was entering on a new scene of life, undisturbed by any care or bitter recollection.
I often refused to accompany him, alleging another engagement, that I might remain alone.
I now also began to collect the materials necessary for my new creation, and this was to me like the torture of single drops of water continually falling on the head.
He mentioned the beauties of his native country and asked us if those were not sufficient allurements to induce us to prolong our journey as far north as Perth, where he resided.
We accordingly determined to commence our journey towards the north at the expiration of another month.
In this expedition we did not intend to follow the great road to Edinburgh, but to visit Windsor, Oxford, Matlock, and the Cumberland lakes, resolving to arrive at the completion of this tour about the end of July.
This was a new scene to us mountaineers; the majestic oaks, the quantity of game, and the herds of stately deer were all novelties to us. From thence we proceeded to Oxford.
As we entered this city, our minds were filled with the remembrance of the events that had been transacted there more than a century and a half before.
It was here that Charles I. had collected his forces.
This city had remained faithful to him, after the whole nation had forsaken his cause to join the standard of Parliament and liberty.
The memory of that unfortunate king and his companions, the amiable Falkland, the insolent Goring, his queen, and son, gave a peculiar interest to every part of the city which they might be supposed to have inhabited.
The spirit of elder days found a dwelling here, and we delighted to trace its footsteps.
I was formed for peaceful happiness.
Our little voyages of discovery were often prolonged by the successive objects that presented themselves.
We visited the tomb of the illustrious Hampden and the field on which that patriot fell.
For a moment my soul was elevated from its debasing and miserable fears to contemplate the divine ideas of liberty and self-sacrifice of which these sights were the monuments and the remembrancers.
We visited the wondrous cave and the little cabinets of natural history, where the curiosities are disposed in the same manner as in the collections at Servox and Chamounix.
The latter name made me tremble when pronounced by Henry, and I hastened to quit Matlock, with which that terrible scene was thus associated. From Derby, still journeying northwards, we passed two months in Cumberland and Westmorland.
I could now almost fancy myself among the Swiss mountains.
The little patches of snow which yet lingered on the northern sides of the mountains, the lakes, and the dashing of the rocky streams were all familiar and dear sights to me.
Here also we made some acquaintances, who almost contrived to cheat me into happiness.
I could pass my life here," said he to me; "and among these mountains I should scarcely regret Switzerland and the Rhine." But he found that a traveller's life is one that includes much pain amidst its enjoyments.
For my own part I was not sorry.
I had now neglected my promise for some time, and I feared the effects of the daemon's disappointment.
He might remain in Switzerland and wreak his vengeance on my relatives.
This idea pursued me and tormented me at every moment from which I might otherwise have snatched repose and peace.
I felt as if I had committed some great crime, the consciousness of which haunted me.
I was guiltless, but I had indeed drawn down a horrible curse upon my head, as mortal as that of crime. I visited Edinburgh with languid eyes and mind; and yet that city might have interested the most unfortunate being.
Do you," said I, "enjoy yourself, and let this be our rendezvous.
He entreated me to write often.
It was a place fitted for such a work, being hardly more than a rock whose high sides were continually beaten upon by the waves.
The soil was barren, scarcely affording pasture for a few miserable cows, and oatmeal for its inhabitants, which consisted of five persons, whose gaunt and scraggy limbs gave tokens of their miserable fare.
It contained but two rooms, and these exhibited all the squalidness of the most miserable penury.
The thatch had fallen in, the walls were unplastered, and the door was off its hinges.
I ordered it to be repaired, bought some furniture, and took possession, an incident which would doubtless have occasioned some surprise had not all the senses of the cottagers been benumbed by want and squalid poverty.
It was a monotonous yet ever-changing scene.
I thought of Switzerland; it was far different from this desolate and appalling landscape.
Its hills are covered with vines, and its cottages are scattered thickly in the plains.
Sometimes I could not prevail on myself to enter my laboratory for several days, and at other times I toiled day and night in order to complete my work.
It was, indeed, a filthy process in which I was engaged.
During my first experiment, a kind of enthusiastic frenzy had blinded me to the horror of my employment; my mind was intently fixed on the consummation of my labour, and my eyes were shut to the horror of my proceedings.
Every moment I feared to meet my persecutor.
Sometimes I sat with my eyes fixed on the ground, fearing to raise them lest they should encounter the object which I so much dreaded to behold.
I feared to wander from the sight of my fellow creatures lest when alone he should come to claim his companion. In the mean time I worked on, and my labour was already considerably advanced.
As I sat, a train of reflection occurred to me which led me to consider the effects of what I was now doing.
Three years before, I was engaged in the same manner and had created a fiend whose unparalleled barbarity had desolated my heart and filled it for ever with the bitterest remorse.
I was now about to form another being of whose dispositions I was alike ignorant; she might become ten thousand times more malignant than her mate and delight, for its own sake, in murder and wretchedness.
They might even hate each other; the creature who already lived loathed his own deformity, and might he not conceive a greater abhorrence for it when it came before his eyes in the female form?
Had I right, for my own benefit, to inflict this curse upon everlasting generations?
A ghastly grin wrinkled his lips as he gazed on me, where I sat fulfilling the task which he had allotted to me.
I thought with a sensation of madness on my promise of creating another like to him, and trembling with passion, tore to pieces the thing on which I was engaged.
A few fishing vessels alone specked the water, and now and then the gentle breeze wafted the sound of voices as the fishermen called to one another.
Shutting the door, he approached me and said in a smothered voice, "You have destroyed the work which you began; what is it that you intend?
Do you dare to break your promise?
I have endured toil and misery; I left Switzerland with you; I crept along the shores of the Rhine, among its willow islands and over the summits of its hills.
I have dwelt many months in the heaths of England and among the deserts of Scotland.
I have endured incalculable fatigue, and cold, and hunger; do you dare destroy my hopes?" "Begone!
I do break my promise; never will I create another like yourself, equal in deformity and wickedness." "Slave, I before reasoned with you, but you have proved yourself unworthy of my condescension.
Remember that I have power; you believe yourself miserable, but I can make you so wretched that the light of day will be hateful to you.
You are my creator, but I am your master; obey!" "The hour of my irresolution is past, and the period of your power is arrived.
Your threats cannot move me to do an act of wickedness; but they confirm me in a determination of not creating you a companion in vice.
Shall I, in cool blood, set loose upon the earth a daemon whose delight is in death and wretchedness?
I am firm, and your words will only exasperate my rage." The monster saw my determination in my face and gnashed his teeth in the impotence of anger.
Shall each man," cried he, "find a wife for his bosom, and each beast have his mate, and I be alone?
I had feelings of affection, and they were requited by detestation and scorn. Man!
You may hate, but beware!
Your hours will pass in dread and misery, and soon the bolt will fall which must ravish from you your happiness for ever.
Are you to be happy while I grovel in the intensity of my wretchedness?
You can blast my other passions, but revenge remains-revenge, henceforth dearer than light or food!
I may die, but first you, my tyrant and tormentor, shall curse the sun that gazes on your misery.
Beware, for I am fearless and therefore powerful.
I will watch with the wiliness of a snake, that I may sting with its venom.
Man, you shall repent of the injuries you inflict." "Devil, cease; and do not poison the air with these sounds of malice. I have declared my resolution to you, and I am no coward to bend beneath words.
Leave me; I am inexorable." "It is well.
I go; but remember, I shall be with you on your wedding-night." I started forward and exclaimed, "Villain!
Before you sign my death-warrant, be sure that you are yourself safe." I would have seized him, but he eluded me and quitted the house with precipitation.
In a few moments I saw him in his boat, which shot across the waters with an arrowy swiftness and was soon lost amidst the waves. All was again silent, but his words rang in my ears.
I burned with rage to pursue the murderer of my peace and precipitate him into the ocean.
I walked up and down my room hastily and perturbed, while my imagination conjured up a thousand images to torment and sting me.
Why had I not followed him and closed with him in mortal strife?
But I had suffered him to depart, and he had directed his course towards the mainland.
In that hour I should die and at once satisfy and extinguish his malice.
I desired that I might pass my life on that barren rock, wearily, it is true, but uninterrupted by any sudden shock of misery.
When it became noon, and the sun rose higher, I lay down on the grass and was overpowered by a deep sleep.
I had been awake the whole of the preceding night, my nerves were agitated, and my eyes inflamed by watching and misery.
He said that he was wearing away his time fruitlessly where he was, that letters from the friends he had formed in London desired his return to complete the negotiation they had entered into for his Indian enterprise.
He besought me, therefore, to leave my solitary isle and to meet him at Perth, that we might proceed southwards together.
The next morning, at daybreak, I summoned sufficient courage and unlocked the door of my laboratory.
The remains of the half-finished creature, whom I had destroyed, lay scattered on the floor, and I almost felt as if I had mangled the living flesh of a human being.
I paused to collect myself and then entered the chamber.
The idea of renewing my labours did not for one instant occur to me; the threat I had heard weighed on my thoughts, but I did not reflect that a voluntary act of mine could avert it.
I felt as if I was about the commission of a dreadful crime and avoided with shuddering anxiety any encounter with my fellow creatures.
The sky became clouded, but the air was pure, although chilled by the northeast breeze that was then rising.
But it refreshed me and filled me with such agreeable sensations that I resolved to prolong my stay on the water, and fixing the rudder in a direct position, stretched myself at the bottom of the boat.
The wind was high, and the waves continually threatened the safety of my little skiff.
I found that the wind was northeast and must have driven me far from the coast from which I had embarked.
I endeavoured to change my course but quickly found that if I again made the attempt the boat would be instantly filled with water.
Thus situated, my only resource was to drive before the wind.
I confess that I felt a few sensations of terror.
I had no compass with me and was so slenderly acquainted with the geography of this part of the world that the sun was of little benefit to me.
I might be driven into the wide Atlantic and feel all the tortures of starvation or be swallowed up in the immeasurable waters that roared and buffeted around me.
I had already been out many hours and felt the torment of a burning thirst, a prelude to my other sufferings.
I looked on the heavens, which were covered by clouds that flew before the wind, only to be replaced by others; I looked upon the sea; it was to be my grave.
Fiend," I exclaimed, "your task is already fulfilled!
I thought of Elizabeth, of my father, and of Clerval-all left behind, on whom the monster might satisfy his sanguinary and merciless passions.
I constructed another sail with a part of my dress and eagerly steered my course towards the land.
It had a wild and rocky appearance, but as I approached nearer I easily perceived the traces of cultivation.
I saw vessels near the shore and found myself suddenly transported back to the neighbourhood of civilised man.
I carefully traced the windings of the land and hailed a steeple which I at length saw issuing from behind a small promontory.
As I was in a state of extreme debility, I resolved to sail directly towards the town, as a place where I could most easily procure nourishment.
Fortunately I had money with me.
They seemed much surprised at my appearance, but instead of offering me any assistance, whispered together with gestures that at any other time might have produced in me a slight sensation of alarm.
As it was, I merely remarked that they spoke English, and I therefore addressed them in that language.
Why do you answer me so roughly?
Their faces expressed a mixture of curiosity and anger, which annoyed and in some degree alarmed me.
I inquired the way to the inn, but no one replied.
Why am I to give an account of myself?
Is not this a free country?" "Ay, sir, free enough for honest folks.
Mr. Kirwin is a magistrate, and you are to give an account of the death of a gentleman who was found murdered here last night." This answer startled me, but I presently recovered myself.
I was innocent; that could easily be proved; accordingly I followed my conductor in silence and was led to one of the best houses in the town.
I was ready to sink from fatigue and hunger, but being surrounded by a crowd, I thought it politic to rouse all my strength, that no physical debility might be construed into apprehension or conscious guilt.
It was a very dark night, as the moon had not yet risen; they did not land at the harbour, but, as they had been accustomed, at a creek about two miles below.
He walked on first, carrying a part of the fishing tackle, and his companions followed him at some distance.
As he was proceeding along the sands, he struck his foot against something and fell at his length on the ground.
His companions came up to assist him, and by the light of their lantern they found that he had fallen on the body of a man, who was to all appearance dead.
They instantly carried it to the cottage of an old woman near the spot and endeavoured, but in vain, to restore it to life.
It appeared to be a handsome young man, about five and twenty years of age.
This idea was probably suggested by the extreme agitation I had exhibited when the mode of the murder had been described.
I was accordingly conducted, by the magistrate and several other persons, to the inn.
How can I describe my sensations on beholding it?
I feel yet parched with horror, nor can I reflect on that terrible moment without shuddering and agony.
The examination, the presence of the magistrate and witnesses, passed like a dream from my memory when I saw the lifeless form of Henry Clerval stretched before me.
I gasped for breath, and throwing myself on the body, I exclaimed, "Have my murderous machinations deprived you also, my dearest Henry, of life?
I lay for two months on the point of death; my ravings, as I afterwards heard, were frightful; I called myself the murderer of William, of Justine, and of Clerval.
Sometimes I entreated my attendants to assist me in the destruction of the fiend by whom I was tormented; and at others I felt the fingers of the monster already grasping my neck, and screamed aloud with agony and terror.
Fortunately, as I spoke my native language, Mr. Kirwin alone understood me; but my gestures and bitter cries were sufficient to affright the other witnesses. Why did I not die?
More miserable than man ever was before, why did I not sink into forgetfulness and rest?
She was a hired nurse, the wife of one of the turnkeys, and her countenance expressed all those bad qualities which often characterise that class.
The lines of her face were hard and rude, like that of persons accustomed to see without sympathising in sights of misery.
The physician came and prescribed medicines, and the old woman prepared them for me; but utter carelessness was visible in the first, and the expression of brutality was strongly marked in the visage of the second.
Who could be interested in the fate of a murderer but the hangman who would gain his fee? These were my first reflections, but I soon learned that Mr. Kirwin had shown me extreme kindness.
He had caused the best room in the prison to be prepared for me (wretched indeed was the best); and it was he who had provided a physician and a nurse.
It is true, he seldom came to see me, for although he ardently desired to relieve the sufferings of every human creature, he did not wish to be present at the agonies and miserable ravings of a murderer.
I was overcome by gloom and misery and often reflected I had better seek death than desire to remain in a world which to me was replete with wretchedness.
At one time I considered whether I should not declare myself guilty and suffer the penalty of the law, less innocent than poor Justine had been.
Persecuted and tortured as I am and have been, can death be any evil to me?" "Nothing indeed could be more unfortunate and agonising than the strange chances that have lately occurred.
You were thrown, by some surprising accident, on this shore, renowned for its hospitality, seized immediately, and charged with murder.
I found several letters, and, among others, one which I discovered from its commencement to be from your father.
I put my hand before my eyes, and cried out in agony, "Oh!
I cannot see him; for God's sake, do not let him enter!" Mr. Kirwin regarded me with a troubled countenance.
Is my father indeed come?
How kind, how very kind!
He rose and quitted the room with my nurse, and in a moment my father entered it. Nothing, at this moment, could have given me greater pleasure than the arrival of my father.
What a place is this that you inhabit, my son!" said he, looking mournfully at the barred windows and wretched appearance of the room.
You travelled to seek happiness, but a fatality seems to pursue you.
And poor Clerval-" The name of my unfortunate and murdered friend was an agitation too great to be endured in my weak state; I shed tears. "Alas!
Mr. Kirwin came in and insisted that my strength should not be exhausted by too much exertion.
But the appearance of my father was to me like that of my good angel, and I gradually recovered my health. As my sickness quitted me, I was absorbed by a gloomy and black melancholy that nothing could dissipate.
The image of Clerval was for ever before me, ghastly and murdered.
More than once the agitation into which these reflections threw me made my friends dread a dangerous relapse.
Why did they preserve so miserable and detested a life?
It was surely that I might fulfil my destiny, which is now drawing to a close.
Soon, oh, very soon, will death extinguish these throbbings and relieve me from the mighty weight of anguish that bears me to the dust; and, in executing the award of justice, I shall also sink to rest.
I had already been three months in prison, and although I was still weak and in continual danger of a relapse, I was obliged to travel nearly a hundred miles to the country town where the court was held.
Mr. Kirwin charged himself with every care of collecting witnesses and arranging my defence.
I was spared the disgrace of appearing publicly as a criminal, as the case was not brought before the court that decides on life and death.
I did not participate in these feelings, for to me the walls of a dungeon or a palace were alike hateful.
He talked of Geneva, which I should soon visit, of Elizabeth and Ernest; but these words only drew deep groans from me.
My father still desired to delay our departure, fearful that I could not sustain the fatigues of a journey, for I was a shattered wreck-the shadow of a human being.
I was a mere skeleton, and fever night and day preyed upon my wasted frame. Still, as I urged our leaving Ireland with such inquietude and impatience, my father thought it best to yield.
We took our passage on board a vessel bound for Havre-de-Grace and sailed with a fair wind from the Irish shores. It was midnight.
I lay on the deck looking at the stars and listening to the dashing of the waves.
I hailed the darkness that shut Ireland from my sight, and my pulse beat with a feverish joy when I reflected that I should soon see Geneva.
I repassed, in my memory, my whole life; my quiet happiness while residing with my family in Geneva, the death of my mother, and my departure for Ingolstadt.
I remembered, shuddering, the mad enthusiasm that hurried me on to the creation of my hideous enemy, and I called to mind the night in which he first lived.
Oppressed by the recollection of my various misfortunes, I now swallowed double my usual quantity and soon slept profoundly.
But sleep did not afford me respite from thought and misery; my dreams presented a thousand objects that scared me.
Towards morning I was possessed by a kind of nightmare; I felt the fiend's grasp in my neck and could not free myself from it; groans and cries rang in my ears.
We landed, and proceeded to Paris.
I soon found that I had overtaxed my strength and that I must repose before I could continue my journey.
My father's care and attentions were indefatigable, but he did not know the origin of my sufferings and sought erroneous methods to remedy the incurable ill. He wished me to seek amusement in society.
I abhorred the face of man.
They were my brethren, my fellow beings, and I felt attracted even to the most repulsive among them, as to creatures of an angelic nature and celestial mechanism.
But I felt that I had no right to share their intercourse.
I had unchained an enemy among them whose joy it was to shed their blood and to revel in their groans.
Sometimes he thought that I felt deeply the degradation of being obliged to answer a charge of murder, and he endeavoured to prove to me the futility of pride. "Alas!
My father," said I, "how little do you know me. Human beings, their feelings and passions, would indeed be degraded if such a wretch as I felt pride.
Justine, poor unhappy Justine, was as innocent as I, and she suffered the same charge; she died for it; and I am the cause of this-I murdered her.
I avoided explanation and maintained a continual silence concerning the wretch I had created.
I had a persuasion that I should be supposed mad, and this in itself would for ever have chained my tongue.
But, besides, I could not bring myself to disclose a secret which would fill my hearer with consternation and make fear and unnatural horror the inmates of his breast.
I checked, therefore, my impatient thirst for sympathy and was silent when I would have given the world to have confided the fatal secret. Yet, still, words like those I have recorded would burst uncontrollably from me.
I could offer no explanation of them, but their truth in part relieved the burden of my mysterious woe. Upon this occasion my father said, with an expression of unbounded wonder, "My dearest Victor, what infatuation is this?
My dear son, I entreat you never to make such an assertion again." "I am not mad," I cried energetically; "the sun and the heavens, who have viewed my operations, can bear witness of my truth.
My poor cousin, how much you must have suffered!
I expect to see you looking even more ill than when you quitted Geneva.
I would not disturb you at this period, when so many misfortunes weigh upon you, but a conversation that I had with my uncle previous to his departure renders some explanation necessary before we meet. Explanation!
You may possibly say, What can Elizabeth have to explain?
We were told this when young, and taught to look forward to it as an event that would certainly take place.
We were affectionate playfellows during childhood, and, I believe, dear and valued friends to one another as we grew older.
But as brother and sister often entertain a lively affection towards each other without desiring a more intimate union, may not such also be our case?
I confess to you, my friend, that I love you and that in my airy dreams of futurity you have been my constant friend and companion.
But it is your happiness I desire as well as my own when I declare to you that our marriage would render me eternally miserable unless it were the dictate of your own free choice.
Even now I weep to think that, borne down as you are by the cruellest misfortunes, you may stifle, by the word _honour_, all hope of that love and happiness which would alone restore you to yourself.
I, who have so disinterested an affection for you, may increase your miseries tenfold by being an obstacle to your wishes.
Victor, be assured that your cousin and playmate has too sincere a love for you not to be made miserable by this supposition.
On that night he had determined to consummate his crimes by my death.
Well, be it so; a deadly struggle would then assuredly take place, in which if he were victorious I should be at peace and his power over me be at an end.
If he were vanquished, I should be a free man.
Such as the peasant enjoys when his family have been massacred before his eyes, his cottage burnt, his lands laid waste, and he is turned adrift, homeless, penniless, and alone, but free.
Such would be my liberty except that in my Elizabeth I possessed a treasure, alas, balanced by those horrors of remorse and guilt which would pursue me until death. Sweet and beloved Elizabeth!
Yet I would die to make her happy.
If the monster executed his threat, death was inevitable; yet, again, I considered whether my marriage would hasten my fate.
My destruction might indeed arrive a few months sooner, but if my torturer should suspect that I postponed it, influenced by his menaces, he would surely find other and perhaps more dreadful means of revenge.
My letter was calm and affectionate.
I fear, my beloved girl," I said, "little happiness remains for us on earth; yet all that I may one day enjoy is centred in you.
Chase away your idle fears; to you alone do I consecrate my life and my endeavours for contentment.
I have one secret, Elizabeth, a dreadful one; when revealed to you, it will chill your frame with horror, and then, far from being surprised at my misery, you will only wonder that I survive what I have endured.
I will confide this tale of misery and terror to you the day after our marriage shall take place, for, my sweet cousin, there must be perfect confidence between us.
But until then, I conjure you, do not mention or allude to it.
This I most earnestly entreat, and I know you will comply." In about a week after the arrival of Elizabeth's letter we returned to Geneva.
The sweet girl welcomed me with warm affection, yet tears were in her eyes as she beheld my emaciated frame and feverish cheeks.
I saw a change in her also.
Memory brought madness with it, and when I thought of what had passed, a real insanity possessed me; sometimes I was furious and burnt with rage, sometimes low and despondent.
She wept with me and for me.
When reason returned, she would remonstrate and endeavour to inspire me with resignation.
It is well for the unfortunate to be resigned, but for the guilty there is no peace.
The agonies of remorse poison the luxury there is otherwise sometimes found in indulging the excess of grief. Soon after my arrival my father spoke of my immediate marriage with Elizabeth.
I remained silent. "Have you, then, some other attachment?" "None on earth.
I love Elizabeth and look forward to our union with delight.
Let the day therefore be fixed; and on it I will consecrate myself, in life or death, to the happiness of my cousin." "My dear Victor, do not speak thus.
Heavy misfortunes have befallen us, but let us only cling closer to what remains and transfer our love for those whom we have lost to those who yet live.
But I concealed my feelings by an appearance of hilarity that brought smiles and joy to the countenance of my father, but hardly deceived the ever-watchful and nicer eye of Elizabeth.
I shut up, as well as I could, in my own heart the anxiety that preyed there and entered with seeming earnestness into the plans of my father, although they might only serve as the decorations of my tragedy.
Through my father's exertions a part of the inheritance of Elizabeth had been restored to her by the Austrian government.
A small possession on the shores of Como belonged to her.
I carried pistols and a dagger constantly about me and was ever on the watch to prevent artifice, and by these means gained a greater degree of tranquillity.
The day was fair, the wind favourable; all smiled on our nuptial embarkation. Those were the last moments of my life during which I enjoyed the feeling of happiness.
You are sorrowful, my love.
Something whispers to me not to depend too much on the prospect that is opened before us, but I will not listen to such a sinister voice.
Observe how fast we move along and how the clouds, which sometimes obscure and sometimes rise above the dome of Mont Blanc, render this scene of beauty still more interesting.
Look also at the innumerable fish that are swimming in the clear waters, where we can distinguish every pebble that lies at the bottom.
How happy and serene all nature appears!" Thus Elizabeth endeavoured to divert her thoughts and mine from all reflection upon melancholy subjects.
The Alps here come closer to the lake, and we approached the amphitheatre of mountains which forms its eastern boundary.
Suddenly a heavy storm of rain descended. I had been calm during the day, but so soon as night obscured the shapes of objects, a thousand fears arose in my mind.
But I discovered no trace of him and was beginning to conjecture that some fortunate chance had intervened to prevent the execution of his menaces when suddenly I heard a shrill and dreadful scream.
It came from the room into which Elizabeth had retired.
As I heard it, the whole truth rushed into my mind, my arms dropped, the motion of every muscle and fibre was suspended; I could feel the blood trickling in my veins and tingling in the extremities of my limbs.
This state lasted but for an instant; the scream was repeated, and I rushed into the room. Great God!
Why did I not then expire!
Why am I here to relate the destruction of the best hope and the purest creature on earth?
She was there, lifeless and inanimate, thrown across the bed, her head hanging down and her pale and distorted features half covered by her hair.
Everywhere I turn I see the same figure-her bloodless arms and relaxed form flung by the murderer on its bridal bier.
Could I behold this and live?
Alas! Life is obstinate and clings closest where it is most hated.
I escaped from them to the room where lay the body of Elizabeth, my love, my wife, so lately living, so dear, so worthy.
She had been moved from the posture in which I had first beheld her, and now, as she lay, her head upon her arm and a handkerchief thrown across her face and neck, I might have supposed her asleep.
I pointed to the spot where he had disappeared, and we followed the track with boats; nets were cast, but in vain.
After passing several hours, we returned hopeless, most of my companions believing it to have been a form conjured up by my fancy.
I was bewildered, in a cloud of wonder and horror.
This idea made me shudder and recalled me to action.
I started up and resolved to return to Geneva with all possible speed. There were no horses to be procured, and I must return by the lake; but the wind was unfavourable, and the rain fell in torrents.
However, it was hardly morning, and I might reasonably hope to arrive by night.
I hired men to row and took an oar myself, for I had always experienced relief from mental torment in bodily exercise.
But the overflowing misery I now felt, and the excess of agitation that I endured rendered me incapable of any exertion.
I threw down the oar, and leaning my head upon my hands, gave way to every gloomy idea that arose.
The rain had ceased for a moment, and I saw the fish play in the waters as they had done a few hours before; they had then been observed by Elizabeth.
Nothing is so painful to the human mind as a great and sudden change.
The sun might shine or the clouds might lower, but nothing could appear to me as it had done the day before.
Mine has been a tale of horrors; I have reached their _acme_, and what I must now relate can but be tedious to you.
Know that, one by one, my friends were snatched away; I was left desolate.
My own strength is exhausted, and I must tell, in a few words, what remains of my hideous narration. I arrived at Geneva.
My father and Ernest yet lived, but the former sunk under the tidings that I bore.
I see him now, excellent and venerable old man!
Cursed, cursed be the fiend that brought misery on his grey hairs and doomed him to waste in wretchedness!
I know not; I lost sensation, and chains and darkness were the only objects that pressed upon me.
Sometimes, indeed, I dreamt that I wandered in flowery meadows and pleasant vales with the friends of my youth, but I awoke and found myself in a dungeon.
Melancholy followed, but by degrees I gained a clear conception of my miseries and situation and was then released from my prison.
As the memory of past misfortunes pressed upon me, I began to reflect on their cause-the monster whom I had created, the miserable daemon whom I had sent abroad into the world for my destruction.
Be assured, sir," said he, "no pains or exertions on my part shall be spared to discover the villain." "I thank you," replied I; "listen, therefore, to the deposition that I have to make.
It is indeed a tale so strange that I should fear you would not credit it were there not something in truth which, however wonderful, forces conviction.
The story is too connected to be mistaken for a dream, and I have no motive for falsehood.
My manner as I thus addressed him was impressive but calm; I had formed in my own heart a resolution to pursue my destroyer to death, and this purpose quieted my agony and for an interval reconciled me to life.
He had heard my story with that half kind of belief that is given to a tale of spirits and supernatural events; but when he was called upon to act officially in consequence, the whole tide of his incredulity returned.
He, however, answered mildly, "I would willingly afford you every aid in your pursuit, but the creature of whom you speak appears to have powers which would put all my exertions to defiance.
Who can follow an animal which can traverse the sea of ice and inhabit caves and dens where no man would venture to intrude?
I will exert myself, and if it is in my power to seize the monster, be assured that he shall suffer punishment proportionate to his crimes.
My revenge is of no moment to you; yet, while I allow it to be a vice, I confess that it is the devouring and only passion of my soul.
My rage is unspeakable when I reflect that the murderer, whom I have turned loose upon society, still exists.
But to a Genevan magistrate, whose mind was occupied by far other ideas than those of devotion and heroism, this elevation of mind had much the appearance of madness.
He endeavoured to soothe me as a nurse does a child and reverted to my tale as the effects of delirium. "Man," I cried, "how ignorant art thou in thy pride of wisdom!
I provided myself with a sum of money, together with a few jewels which had belonged to my mother, and departed. And now my wanderings began which are to cease but with life.
I have traversed a vast portion of the earth and have endured all the hardships which travellers in deserts and barbarous countries are wont to meet.
How I have lived I hardly know; many times have I stretched my failing limbs upon the sandy plain and prayed for death.
But revenge kept me alive; I dared not die and leave my adversary in being. When I quitted Geneva my first labour was to gain some clue by which I might trace the steps of my fiendish enemy.
But my plan was unsettled, and I wandered many hours round the confines of the town, uncertain what path I should pursue.
As night approached I found myself at the entrance of the cemetery where William, Elizabeth, and my father reposed.
I entered it and approached the tomb which marked their graves.
Everything was silent except the leaves of the trees, which were gently agitated by the wind; the night was nearly dark, and the scene would have been solemn and affecting even to an uninterested observer.
They were dead, and I lived; their murderer also lived, and to destroy him I must drag out my weary existence.
For this purpose I will preserve my life; to execute this dear revenge will I again behold the sun and tread the green herbage of earth, which otherwise should vanish from my eyes for ever.
And I call on you, spirits of the dead, and on you, wandering ministers of vengeance, to aid and conduct me in my work.
The laughter died away, when a well-known and abhorred voice, apparently close to my ear, addressed me in an audible whisper, "I am satisfied, miserable wretch!
You have determined to live, and I am satisfied." I darted towards the spot from which the sound proceeded, but the devil eluded my grasp.
Suddenly the broad disk of the moon arose and shone full upon his ghastly and distorted shape as he fled with more than mortal speed. I pursued him, and for many months this has been my task.
Guided by a slight clue, I followed the windings of the Rhone, but vainly.
The blue Mediterranean appeared, and by a strange chance, I saw the fiend enter by night and hide himself in a vessel bound for the Black Sea.
I took my passage in the same ship, but he escaped, I know not how. Amidst the wilds of Tartary and Russia, although he still evaded me, I have ever followed in his track.
Sometimes the peasants, scared by this horrid apparition, informed me of his path; sometimes he himself, who feared that if I lost all trace of him I should despair and die, left some mark to guide me.
The snows descended on my head, and I saw the print of his huge step on the white plain.
To you first entering on life, to whom care is new and agony unknown, how can you understand what I have felt and still feel?
Sometimes, when nature, overcome by hunger, sank under the exhaustion, a repast was prepared for me in the desert that restored and inspirited me.
The fare was, indeed, coarse, such as the peasants of the country ate, but I will not doubt that it was set there by the spirits that I had invoked to aid me.
In other places human beings were seldom seen, and I generally subsisted on the wild animals that crossed my path.
Often, when most miserable, I sank to repose, and my dreams lulled me even to rapture.
The spirits that guarded me had provided these moments, or rather hours, of happiness that I might retain strength to fulfil my pilgrimage.
Deprived of this respite, I should have sunk under my hardships.
Often, when wearied by a toilsome march, I persuaded myself that I was dreaming until night should come and that I should then enjoy reality in the arms of my dearest friends.
What agonising fondness did I feel for them!
How did I cling to their dear forms, as sometimes they haunted even my waking hours, and persuade myself that they still lived!
Sometimes, indeed, he left marks in writing on the barks of the trees or cut in stone that guided me and instigated my fury.
My reign is not yet over"-these words were legible in one of these inscriptions-"you live, and my power is complete.
Follow me; I seek the everlasting ices of the north, where you will feel the misery of cold and frost, to which I am impassive.
You will find near this place, if you follow not too tardily, a dead hare; eat and be refreshed.
Come on, my enemy; we have yet to wrestle for our lives, but many hard and miserable hours must you endure until that period shall arrive." Scoffing devil!
Again do I vow vengeance; again do I devote thee, miserable fiend, to torture and death.
The peasants were shut up in their hovels, and only a few of the most hardy ventured forth to seize the animals whom starvation had forced from their hiding-places to seek for prey.
The rivers were covered with ice, and no fish could be procured; and thus I was cut off from my chief article of maintenance. The triumph of my enemy increased with the difficulty of my labours.
One inscription that he left was in these words: "Prepare!
How unlike it was to the blue seasons of the south!
Covered with ice, it was only to be distinguished from land by its superior wildness and ruggedness.
The Greeks wept for joy when they beheld the Mediterranean from the hills of Asia, and hailed with rapture the boundary of their toils.
With new courage, therefore, I pressed on, and in two days arrived at a wretched hamlet on the seashore.
I inquired of the inhabitants concerning the fiend and gained accurate information.
A gigantic monster, they said, had arrived the night before, armed with a gun and many pistols, putting to flight the inhabitants of a solitary cottage through fear of his terrific appearance.
Immense and rugged mountains of ice often barred up my passage, and I often heard the thunder of the ground sea, which threatened my destruction.
Despair had indeed almost secured her prey, and I should soon have sunk beneath this misery.
I strained my sight to discover what it could be and uttered a wild cry of ecstasy when I distinguished a sledge and the distorted proportions of a well-known form within.
The sledge was still visible, nor did I again lose sight of it except at the moments when for a short time some ice-rock concealed it with its intervening crags.
A ground sea was heard; the thunder of its progress, as the waters rolled and swelled beneath me, became every moment more ominous and terrific.
I pressed on, but in vain.
The wind arose; the sea roared; and, as with the mighty shock of an earthquake, it split and cracked with a tremendous and overwhelming sound.
I quickly destroyed part of my sledge to construct oars, and by these means was enabled, with infinite fatigue, to move my ice raft in the direction of your ship.
I had determined, if you were going southwards, still to trust myself to the mercy of the seas rather than abandon my purpose.
I hoped to induce you to grant me a boat with which I could pursue my enemy.
But your direction was northwards.
You took me on board when my vigour was exhausted, and I should soon have sunk under my multiplied hardships into a death which I still dread, for my task is unfulfilled. Oh!
When will my guiding spirit, in conducting me to the daemon, allow me the rest I so much desire; or must I die, and he yet live?
If I do, swear to me, Walton, that he shall not escape, that you will seek him and satisfy my vengeance in his death.
And do I dare to ask of you to undertake my pilgrimage, to endure the hardships that I have undergone? No; I am not so selfish.
He is eloquent and persuasive, and once his words had even power over my heart; but trust him not.
His soul is as hellish as his form, full of treachery and fiend-like malice.
Hear him not; call on the names of William, Justine, Clerval, Elizabeth, my father, and of the wretched Victor, and thrust your sword into his heart.
Sometimes, seized with sudden agony, he could not continue his tale; at others, his voice broken, yet piercing, uttered with difficulty the words so replete with anguish.
His fine and lovely eyes were now lighted up with indignation, now subdued to downcast sorrow and quenched in infinite wretchedness.
Such a monster has, then, really existence! I cannot doubt it, yet I am lost in surprise and admiration.
Sometimes I endeavoured to gain from Frankenstein the particulars of his creature's formation, but on this point he was impenetrable. "Are you mad, my friend?" said he.
Or whither does your senseless curiosity lead you?
Would you also create for yourself and the world a demoniacal enemy?
Since you have preserved my narration," said he, "I would not that a mutilated one should go down to posterity." Thus has a week passed away, while I have listened to the strangest tale that ever imagination formed.
My thoughts and every feeling of my soul have been drunk up by the interest for my guest which this tale and his own elevated and gentle manners have created.
I wish to soothe him, yet can I counsel one so infinitely miserable, so destitute of every hope of consolation, to live?
The only joy that he can now know will be when he composes his shattered spirit to peace and death.
This faith gives a solemnity to his reveries that render them to me almost as imposing and interesting as truth. Our conversations are not always confined to his own history and misfortunes.
On every point of general literature he displays unbounded knowledge and a quick and piercing apprehension.
His eloquence is forcible and touching; nor can I hear him, when he relates a pathetic incident or endeavours to move the passions of pity or love, without tears.
What a glorious creature must he have been in the days of his prosperity, when he is thus noble and godlike in ruin!
He seems to feel his own worth and the greatness of his fall. "When younger," said he, "I believed myself destined for some great enterprise.
My feelings are profound, but I possessed a coolness of judgment that fitted me for illustrious achievements.
This sentiment of the worth of my nature supported me when others would have been oppressed, for I deemed it criminal to throw away in useless grief those talents that might be useful to my fellow creatures.
When I reflected on the work I had completed, no less a one than the creation of a sensitive and rational animal, I could not rank myself with the herd of common projectors.
But this thought, which supported me in the commencement of my career, now serves only to plunge me lower in the dust.
All my speculations and hopes are as nothing, and like the archangel who aspired to omnipotence, I am chained in an eternal hell.
My imagination was vivid, yet my powers of analysis and application were intense; by the union of these qualities I conceived the idea and executed the creation of a man.
Even now I cannot recollect without passion my reveries while the work was incomplete.
I trod heaven in my thoughts, now exulting in my powers, now burning with the idea of their effects.
From my infancy I was imbued with high hopes and a lofty ambition; but how am I sunk!
My friend, if you had known me as I once was, you would not recognise me in this state of degradation.
Despondency rarely visited my heart; a high destiny seemed to bear me on, until I fell, never, never again to rise." Must I then lose this admirable being?
I have longed for a friend; I have sought one who would sympathise with and love me.
Behold, on these desert seas I have found such a one, but I fear I have gained him only to know his value and lose him.
Can any man be to me as Clerval was, or any woman another Elizabeth?
Even where the affections are not strongly moved by any superior excellence, the companions of our childhood always possess a certain power over our minds which hardly any later friend can obtain.
They know our infantine dispositions, which, however they may be afterwards modified, are never eradicated; and they can judge of our actions with more certain conclusions as to the integrity of our motives.
But I enjoyed friends, dear not only through habit and association, but from their own merits; and wherever I am, the soothing voice of my Elizabeth and the conversation of Clerval will be ever whispered in my ear.
They are dead, and but one feeling in such a solitude can persuade me to preserve my life.
If I were engaged in any high undertaking or design, fraught with extensive utility to my fellow creatures, then could I live to fulfil it.
I am surrounded by mountains of ice which admit of no escape and threaten every moment to crush my vessel.
The brave fellows whom I have persuaded to be my companions look towards me for aid, but I have none to bestow.
There is something terribly appalling in our situation, yet my courage and hopes do not desert me.
Yet it is terrible to reflect that the lives of all these men are endangered through me.
If we are lost, my mad schemes are the cause. And what, Margaret, will be the state of your mind?
You will not hear of my destruction, and you will anxiously await my return.
Years will pass, and you will have visitings of despair and yet be tortured by hope.
My beloved sister, the sickening failing of your heart-felt expectations is, in prospect, more terrible to me than my own death.
But you have a husband and lovely children; you may be happy.
Heaven bless you and make you so! My unfortunate guest regards me with the tenderest compassion.
He endeavours to fill me with hope and talks as if life were a possession which he valued.
He reminds me how often the same accidents have happened to other navigators who have attempted this sea, and in spite of myself, he fills me with cheerful auguries.
The cold is excessive, and many of my unfortunate comrades have already found a grave amidst this scene of desolation.
They entered, and their leader addressed me.
They insisted, therefore, that I should engage with a solemn promise that if the vessel should be freed I would instantly direct my course southwards. This speech troubled me.
I had not despaired, nor had I yet conceived the idea of returning if set free.
Yet could I, in justice, or even in possibility, refuse this demand?
I hesitated before I answered, when Frankenstein, who had at first been silent, and indeed appeared hardly to have force enough to attend, now roused himself; his eyes sparkled, and his cheeks flushed with momentary vigour.
Turning towards the men, he said, "What do you mean?
What do you demand of your captain?
Are you, then, so easily turned from your design?
Did you not call this a glorious expedition?
And wherefore was it glorious?
For this was it a glorious, for this was it an honourable undertaking.
You were hereafter to be hailed as the benefactors of your species, your names adored as belonging to brave men who encountered death for honour and the benefit of mankind.
Why, that requires not this preparation; ye need not have come thus far and dragged your captain to the shame of a defeat merely to prove yourselves cowards.
Be men, or be more than men.
Be steady to your purposes and firm as a rock.
This ice is not made of such stuff as your hearts may be; it is mutable and cannot withstand you if you say that it shall not.
Do not return to your families with the stigma of disgrace marked on your brows.
They looked at one another and were unable to reply.
It requires more philosophy than I possess to bear this injustice with patience. September 12th. It is past; I am returning to England.
I have lost my hopes of utility and glory; I have lost my friend.
We were in the most imminent peril, but as we could only remain passive, my chief attention was occupied by my unfortunate guest whose illness increased in such a degree that he was entirely confined to his bed.
The ice cracked behind us and was driven with force towards the north; a breeze sprang from the west, and on the 11th the passage towards the south became perfectly free.
When the sailors saw this and that their return to their native country was apparently assured, a shout of tumultuous joy broke from them, loud and long-continued.
Frankenstein, who was dozing, awoke and asked the cause of the tumult.
They shout," I said, "because they will soon return to England." "Do you, then, really return?" "Alas!
Yes; I cannot withstand their demands.
I cannot lead them unwillingly to danger, and I must return." "Do so, if you will; but I will not.
You may give up your purpose, but mine is assigned to me by Heaven, and I dare not.
I am weak, but surely the spirits who assist my vengeance will endow me with sufficient strength.
Saying this, he endeavoured to spring from the bed, but the exertion was too great for him; he fell back and fainted. It was long before he was restored, and I often thought that life was entirely extinct.
At length he opened his eyes; he breathed with difficulty and was unable to speak.
The surgeon gave him a composing draught and ordered us to leave him undisturbed.
In the meantime he told me that my friend had certainly not many hours to live. His sentence was pronounced, and I could only grieve and be patient.
I sat by his bed, watching him; his eyes were closed, and I thought he slept; but presently he called to me in a feeble voice, and bidding me come near, said, "Alas!
The strength I relied on is gone; I feel that I shall soon die, and he, my enemy and persecutor, may still be in being.
Think not, Walton, that in the last moments of my existence I feel that burning hatred and ardent desire of revenge I once expressed; but I feel myself justified in desiring the death of my adversary.
This was my duty, but there was another still paramount to that.
My duties towards the beings of my own species had greater claims to my attention because they included a greater proportion of happiness or misery.
Urged by this view, I refused, and I did right in refusing, to create a companion for the first creature.
He showed unparalleled malignity and selfishness in evil; he destroyed my friends; he devoted to destruction beings who possessed exquisite sensations, happiness, and wisdom; nor do I know where this thirst for vengeance may end.
Miserable himself that he may render no other wretched, he ought to die.
The task of his destruction was mine, but I have failed.
But the consideration of these points, and the well balancing of what you may esteem your duties, I leave to you; my judgment and ideas are already disturbed by the near approach of death.
The forms of the beloved dead flit before me, and I hasten to their arms.
Seek happiness in tranquillity and avoid ambition, even if it be only the apparently innocent one of distinguishing yourself in science and discoveries.
Yet why do I say this?
I have myself been blasted in these hopes, yet another may succeed." His voice became fainter as he spoke, and at length, exhausted by his effort, he sank into silence.
What can I say that will enable you to understand the depth of my sorrow?
All that I should express would be inadequate and feeble.
My tears flow; my mind is overshadowed by a cloud of disappointment.
But I journey towards England, and I may there find consolation. I am interrupted.
What do these sounds portend?
It is midnight; the breeze blows fairly, and the watch on deck scarcely stir.
Again there is a sound as of a human voice, but hoarser; it comes from the cabin where the remains of Frankenstein still lie.
I must arise and examine. Good night, my sister. Great God! what a scene has just taken place!
I am yet dizzy with the remembrance of it.
Over him hung a form which I cannot find words to describe-gigantic in stature, yet uncouth and distorted in its proportions.
As he hung over the coffin, his face was concealed by long locks of ragged hair; but one vast hand was extended, in colour and apparent texture like that of a mummy.
When he heard the sound of my approach, he ceased to utter exclamations of grief and horror and sprung towards the window.
Never did I behold a vision so horrible as his face, of such loathsome yet appalling hideousness.
In his murder my crimes are consummated; the miserable series of my being is wound to its close!
What does it avail that I now ask thee to pardon me?
I, who irretrievably destroyed thee by destroying all thou lovedst.
I approached this tremendous being; I dared not again raise my eyes to his face, there was something so scaring and unearthly in his ugliness.
I attempted to speak, but the words died away on my lips.
The monster continued to utter wild and incoherent self-reproaches.
At length I gathered resolution to address him in a pause of the tempest of his passion. "Your repentance," I said, "is now superfluous.
If you had listened to the voice of conscience and heeded the stings of remorse before you had urged your diabolical vengeance to this extremity, Frankenstein would yet have lived." "And do you dream?" said the daemon.
Do you think that I was then dead to agony and remorse?
He," he continued, pointing to the corpse, "he suffered not in the consummation of the deed.
Not the ten-thousandth portion of the anguish that was mine during the lingering detail of its execution.
A frightful selfishness hurried me on, while my heart was poisoned with remorse.
Think you that the groans of Clerval were music to my ears?
I pitied Frankenstein; my pity amounted to horror; I abhorred myself.
I recollected my threat and resolved that it should be accomplished.
I knew that I was preparing for myself a deadly torture, but I was the slave, not the master, of an impulse which I detested yet could not disobey.
Nay, then I was not miserable.
I had cast off all feeling, subdued all anguish, to riot in the excess of my despair.
Evil thenceforth became my good.
Urged thus far, I had no choice but to adapt my nature to an element which I had willingly chosen.
The completion of my demoniacal design became an insatiable passion.
I said. "It is well that you come here to whine over the desolation that you have made.
You throw a torch into a pile of buildings, and when they are consumed, you sit among the ruins and lament the fall.
Hypocritical fiend! If he whom you mourn still lived, still would he be the object, again would he become the prey, of your accursed vengeance.
Yet I seek not a fellow feeling in my misery. No sympathy may I ever find.
When I first sought it, it was the love of virtue, the feelings of happiness and affection with which my whole being overflowed, that I wished to be participated.
But now that virtue has become to me a shadow, and that happiness and affection are turned into bitter and loathing despair, in what should I seek for sympathy?
I am content to suffer alone while my sufferings shall endure; when I die, I am well satisfied that abhorrence and opprobrium should load my memory.
Once my fancy was soothed with dreams of virtue, of fame, and of enjoyment.
Once I falsely hoped to meet with beings who, pardoning my outward form, would love me for the excellent qualities which I was capable of unfolding.
I was nourished with high thoughts of honour and devotion.
But now crime has degraded me beneath the meanest animal.
No guilt, no mischief, no malignity, no misery, can be found comparable to mine.
When I run over the frightful catalogue of my sins, I cannot believe that I am the same creature whose thoughts were once filled with sublime and transcendent visions of the beauty and the majesty of goodness.
But it is even so; the fallen angel becomes a malignant devil.
Yet even that enemy of God and man had friends and associates in his desolation; I am alone. "You, who call Frankenstein your friend, seem to have a knowledge of my crimes and his misfortunes.
But in the detail which he gave you of them he could not sum up the hours and months of misery which I endured wasting in impotent passions.
For while I destroyed his hopes, I did not satisfy my own desires.
They were for ever ardent and craving; still I desired love and fellowship, and I was still spurned.
Was there no injustice in this?
Am I to be thought the only criminal, when all humankind sinned against me?
Why do you not hate Felix, who drove his friend from his door with contumely?
Why do you not execrate the rustic who sought to destroy the saviour of his child?
Nay, these are virtuous and immaculate beings!
I, the miserable and the abandoned, am an abortion, to be spurned at, and kicked, and trampled on.
Even now my blood boils at the recollection of this injustice. "But it is true that I am a wretch.
I have murdered the lovely and the helpless; I have strangled the innocent as they slept and grasped to death his throat who never injured me or any other living thing.
I have devoted my creator, the select specimen of all that is worthy of love and admiration among men, to misery; I have pursued him even to that irremediable ruin.
There he lies, white and cold in death.
You hate me, but your abhorrence cannot equal that with which I regard myself.
My work is nearly complete.
Neither yours nor any man's death is needed to consummate the series of my being and accomplish that which must be done, but it requires my own.
Do not think that I shall be slow to perform this sacrifice.
I shall no longer feel the agonies which now consume me or be the prey of feelings unsatisfied, yet unquenched.
He is dead who called me into being; and when I shall be no more, the very remembrance of us both will speedily vanish.
I shall no longer see the sun or stars or feel the winds play on my cheeks.
Light, feeling, and sense will pass away; and in this condition must I find my happiness.
Polluted by crimes and torn by the bitterest remorse, where can I find rest but in death? "Farewell!
I leave you, and in you the last of humankind whom these eyes will ever behold.
If thou wert yet alive and yet cherished a desire of revenge against me, it would be better satiated in my life than in my destruction.
Soon these burning miseries will be extinct.
I shall ascend my funeral pile triumphantly and exult in the agony of the torturing flames.
The light of that conflagration will fade away; my ashes will be swept into the sea by the winds.
My spirit will sleep in peace, or if it thinks, it will not surely think thus. Farewell." He sprang from the cabin-window as he said this, upon the ice raft which lay close to the vessel.
He was soon borne away by the waves and lost in darkness and distance.
[Illustration] The Beasts of Tarzan by Edgar Rice Burroughs To Joan Burroughs Contents CHAPTER I.
Beasts at Bay CHAPTER IV.
A Hideous Crew CHAPTER VII.
The Dance of Death CHAPTER IX.
Chivalry or Villainy CHAPTER X.
A Black Scoundrel CHAPTER XIII.
Alone in the Jungle CHAPTER XV.
Down the Ugambi CHAPTER XVI.
In the Darkness of the Night CHAPTER XVII.
On the Deck of the "Kincaid" CHAPTER XVIII.
Paulvitch Plots Revenge CHAPTER XIX.
The Last of the "Kincaid" CHAPTER XX.
Jungle Island Again CHAPTER XXI.
The Law of the Jungle CHAPTER I. Kidnapped "The entire affair is shrouded in mystery," said D'Arnot.
I have it on the best of authority that neither the police nor the special agents of the general staff have the faintest conception of how it was accomplished.
Many times in the past have I thwarted Rokoff's designs upon my life; but now there are others to consider.
Unless I misjudge the man, he would more quickly strike at me through my wife or son than directly at me, for he doubtless realizes that in no other way could he inflict greater anguish upon me.
I must go back to them at once, and remain with them until Rokoff is recaptured-or dead." As these two talked in Paris, two other men were talking together in a little cottage upon the outskirts of London.
Both were dark, sinister-looking men. One was bearded, but the other, whose face wore the pallor of long confinement within doors, had but a few days' growth of black beard upon his face.
It was he who was speaking. "You must needs shave off that beard of yours, Alexis," he said to his companion.
With it he would recognize you on the instant.
And now good-bye, and good luck!" Three hours later a messenger mounted the steps to the apartment of Lieutenant D'Arnot. "A telegram for Lord Greystoke," he said to the servant who answered his summons.
It has come already." The Frenchman took the telegram and read: "Jack stolen from the garden through complicity of new servant.
Tarzan quickly answered the call in person. "Lord Greystoke?" asked a man's voice at the other end of the line. "Yes." "Your son has been stolen," continued the voice, "and I alone may help you to recover him.
I am conversant with the plot of those who took him.
What do you say?" "If you lead me to where my son is hidden," replied the ape-man, "you need fear nothing from me." "Good," replied the other.
But you must come alone to meet me, for it is enough that I must trust you.
It would do no good to arrive earlier.
Your son will be safe enough in the meantime, and I can then lead you secretly to where he is hidden.
Her mother heart ached, bereft of its first-born.
Or it might be that it had been simply a bait to lure Tarzan into the hands of the implacable Rokoff. With the lodgment of this thought she stopped in wide-eyed terror. Instantly it became a conviction.
She glanced at the great clock ticking the minutes in the corner of the library. It was too late to catch the Dover train that Tarzan was to take.
There was another, later, however, that would bring her to the Channel port in time to reach the address the stranger had given her husband before the appointed hour. Summoning her maid and chauffeur, she issued instructions rapidly.
Ten minutes later she was being whisked through the crowded streets toward the railway station. It was nine-forty-five that night that Tarzan entered the squalid "pub" on the water-front in Dover.
Once outside, the fellow led the way into the darkness, nearer a wharf, where high-piled bales, boxes, and casks cast dense shadows.
Had he guessed that his guide was Alexis Paulvitch he would have realized that naught but treachery lay in the man's heart, and that danger lurked in the path of every move. "He is unguarded now," continued the Russian.
Those who took him feel perfectly safe from detection, and with the exception of a couple of members of the crew, whom I have furnished with enough gin to silence them effectually for hours, there is none aboard the Kincaid.
We can go aboard, get the child, and return without the slightest fear." Tarzan nodded. "Let's be about it, then," he said. His guide led him to a small boat moored alongside the wharf.
The two men entered, and Paulvitch pulled rapidly toward the steamer.
The black smoke issuing from her funnel did not at the time make any suggestion to Tarzan's mind.
Once on deck they hastened aft to where the Russian pointed to a hatch. "The boy is hidden there," he said.
You had better go down after him, as there is less chance that he will cry in fright than should he find himself in the arms of a stranger.
I will stand on guard here." So anxious was Tarzan to rescue the child that he gave not the slightest thought to the strangeness of all the conditions surrounding the Kincaid.
It was evident that the room had been prepared for the very purpose of serving as a cell for himself. There was nothing in the compartment, and no other occupant.
If the child was on board the Kincaid he was confined elsewhere. For over twenty years, from infancy to manhood, the ape-man had roamed his savage jungle haunts without human companionship of any nature.
She's had steam up for three hours an' jest been a-waitin' fer that one passenger.
The two were soon scudding over the water. At the steamer's side the man demanded his pay and, without waiting to count out the exact amount, the woman thrust a handful of bank-notes into his outstretched hand.
A single glance at them convinced the fellow that he had been more than well paid.
I might jest as well of 'ad the whole bloomin' wad." When Jane Clayton climbed to the deck of the Kincaid she found the ship apparently deserted.
As she hurried down the short companion-ladder into the main cabin, on either side of which were the smaller rooms occupied by the officers, she failed to note the quick closing of one of the doors before her.
Then you may yell your pretty head off." Lady Greystoke turned to look into the leering, bearded face so close to hers.
The man relaxed the pressure of his fingers upon her lips, and with a little moan of terror as she recognized him the girl shrank away from her captor. "Nikolas Rokoff!
Thuran!" she exclaimed. "Your devoted admirer," replied the Russian, with a low bow. "My little boy," she said next, ignoring the terms of endearment-"where is he?
How could you be so cruel-even as you-Nikolas Rokoff-cannot be entirely devoid of mercy and compassion?
Tell me where he is.
Is he aboard this ship?
You came aboard voluntarily, and you may take the consequences.
I little thought," he added to himself, "that any such good luck as this would come to me." He went on deck then, locking the cabin-door upon his prisoner, and for several days she did not see him.
His name was Sven Anderssen, his one pride being that his patronymic was spelt with a double "s." The man was tall and raw-boned, with a long yellow moustache, an unwholesome complexion, and filthy nails.
He had hoped to learn through this fellow whether his little son was aboard the Kincaid, but to every question upon this or kindred subjects the fellow returned but one reply, "Ay tank it blow purty soon purty hard.
So after several attempts Tarzan gave it up. For weeks that seemed months to the two prisoners the little steamer forged on they knew not where.
Once the Kincaid stopped to coal, only immediately to take up the seemingly interminable voyage. Rokoff had visited Jane Clayton but once since he had locked her in the tiny cabin.
He had come gaunt and hollow-eyed from a long siege of sea-sickness.
But bear in mind that you will be shot if you make a single move to attack me or any other aboard the ship." The ape-man swung himself lightly to the deck.
About him, but at a respectful distance, stood a half-dozen sailors armed with rifles and revolvers.
Facing him was Paulvitch. Tarzan looked about for Rokoff, who he felt sure must be aboard, but there was no sign of him. "Lord Greystoke," commenced the Russian, "by your continued and wanton interference with M.
Rokoff and his plans you have at last brought yourself and your family to this unfortunate extremity.
You have only yourself to thank.
As you may imagine, it has cost M.
Rokoff a large amount of money to finance this expedition, and, as you are the sole cause of it, he naturally looks to you for reimbursement. "Further, I may say that only by meeting M.
Rokoff's just demands may you avert the most unpleasant consequences to your wife and child, and at the same time retain your own life and regain your liberty." "What is the amount?" asked Tarzan.
And what assurance have I that you will live up to your end of the agreement?
I have little reason to trust two such scoundrels as you and Rokoff, you know." The Russian flushed. "You are in no position to deliver insults," he said.
That we do not is because we have other plans for punishing you that would be entirely upset by your death." "Answer one question," said Tarzan.
Is my son on board this ship?" "No," replied Alexis Paulvitch, "your son is quite safe elsewhere; nor will he be killed until you refuse to accede to our fair demands.
But he was determined to give them such a battle as they would never forget, and possibly to take Paulvitch with him into eternity.
He was only sorry that it was not Rokoff. He took his pocket cheque-book and fountain-pen from his pocket. "What is the amount?" he asked. Paulvitch named an enormous sum.
Tarzan could scarce restrain a smile. Their very cupidity was to prove the means of their undoing, in the matter of the ransom at least.
Purposely he hesitated and haggled over the amount, but Paulvitch was obdurate.
Here you will not need it." Tarzan demurred. Paulvitch pointed to the armed sailors.
Then the Englishman slowly divested himself of his clothing. A boat was lowered, and, still heavily guarded, the ape-man was rowed ashore.
You lived naked in the jungles-to your own we have returned you; but your son shall rise a step above his sire.
It is the immutable law of evolution. "The father was a beast, but the son shall be a man-he shall take the next ascending step in the scale of progress.
They muttered low gutturals of approval as bits of white hide or hairy bloodstained skin were torn from one contestant or the other.
The little audience of fierce anthropoids heard the creaking of their king's neck mingling with his agonized shrieks and hideous roaring. Then there came a sudden crack, like the breaking of a stout limb before the fury of the wind.
Then they knew that their king was dead. Across the jungle rolled the horrid notes of the victory cry.
The little monkeys in the tree-tops ceased their chattering.
The harsh-voiced, brilliant-plumed birds were still.
From afar came the answering wail of a leopard and the deep roar of a lion. It was the old Tarzan who turned questioning eyes upon the little knot of apes before him.
Through his bared fighting fangs there issued a low, sullen growl. Tarzan watched his every move, standing rigid as a statue.
In this event the bull would, according to custom, approach quite close to the object of his attention, growling hideously and baring slavering fangs.
He had appraised the young bull as one who had never quite felt equal to the task of overthrowing his former king, but who one day would have done so.
Go away or I shall kill you!" "You saw how easily I killed Molak," replied Tarzan.
So I could kill you if I cared to be king.
But Tarzan of the Apes would not be king of the tribe of Akut.
All he wishes is to live in peace in this country. Let us be friends.
Tarzan of the Apes can help you, and you can help Tarzan of the Apes." "You cannot kill Akut," replied the other.
Tarzan told you that he did not wish to be king.
If any question your right, Tarzan of the Apes will help you in your battles." The ape-man rose, and Akut came slowly to his feet.
By dint of much labour he managed to chip off a narrow sliver some twelve inches long by a quarter of an inch thick.
One edge was quite thin for a few inches near the tip.
It was the rudiment of a knife. With it he went into the jungle, searching until he found a fallen tree of a certain species of hardwood with which he was familiar.
From this he cut a small straight branch, which he pointed at one end. Then he scooped a small, round hole in the surface of the prostrate trunk.
To this spot the hungry ape-man made his silent way. Through the upper terrace of the tree-tops he swung with the grace and ease of a monkey.
It was his intention to flee through the shallow ford and escape upon the opposite side of the river. Not a hundred yards behind him came Numa. Tarzan could see him quite plainly now.
Below the ape-man Bara was about to pass.
Then he set out to learn something of the strange land in which he found himself.
In his left hand he grasped his slim stone blade.
He would have preferred to use his noose, but the foliage surrounding the huge cat precluded the possibility of an accurate throw with the rope. Akut had now wandered quite close beneath the tree wherein lay the waiting death.
Sheeta slowly edged his hind paws along the branch still further beneath him, and then with a hideous shriek he launched himself toward the great ape.
By the great water I spared Akut's life when I might have taken it and become king of the tribe of Akut.
But in those things the treatment was no different from that which they accorded any other member of the tribe. Tarzan on his part felt very much at home with these fierce, hairy progenitors of primitive man.
The horrible practices that would form a part of his life-training would alone be sufficient to bar him forever from association with those of his own race and station in life. A cannibal!
His little boy a savage man-eater!
It was too horrible to contemplate. The filed teeth, the slit nose, the little face painted hideously. Tarzan groaned.
It was the nearest approach to a friendly advance that Tarzan could make in the language of Sheeta. The panther ceased his snarling and eyed the ape-man closely.
Instead, it stood a few paces from the tree watching the ape-man clamber out of the maze of fallen branches. Once outside, Tarzan was not three paces from the panther.
Presently they advanced upon him once more, this time wielding their heavy war-spears.
They looked at one another questioningly, for here was a sound so hideous that their own frightful din faded into insignificance beside it.
Heavy spears were hurled and mighty war-clubs wielded, and though apes went down never to rise, so, too, went down the men of Ugambi. Sheeta's cruel fangs and tearing talons ripped and tore at the black hides.
In the white man's mind was a new plan, awakened by sight of the war-canoe.
If these men had come to his island from another, or from the mainland, why not utilize their craft to make his way to the country from which they had come?
What do you answer?" "I will help you," replied Mugambi.
Mugambi drew back. "They will kill us," he said. "I think not," replied Tarzan.
Near by is another tribe that eats donkey-meat-a custom most revolting to the surrounding tribes that do not eat donkey.
Almost from the first he showed an interest in this new sport that revealed a much higher plane of intelligence than that attained by any of his tribe.
Here the breeze struck the sail, sending the rude craft lunging among the waves that ran higher and higher as they drew away from the shore. With the tossing of the boat the apes became panic-stricken.
They first moved uneasily about, and then commenced grumbling and whining.
At other times in single file, first one and then the other in advance.
Then Tarzan and Sheeta feasted to repletion. After the meal the two curled up together in a thicket, the man's black head pillowed upon the tawny side of the panther.
Another white man, and with him are many warriors.
They come in a great war-canoe to kill and rob as did the black-bearded one who has just left us." Kaviri leaped to his feet.
He had but recently had a taste of the white man's medicine, and his savage heart was filled with bitterness and hate.
In another moment the rumble of the war-drums rose from the village, calling in the hunters from the forest and the tillers from the fields. Seven war-canoes were launched and manned by paint-daubed, befeathered warriors.
Now came the other war-canoes rapidly down upon the two craft.
That one came too close to the ape-man's craft before its occupants realized that their fellows were pitted against demons instead of men.
A giant of a white devil had wrested his spear from him as though he, the mighty Kaviri, had been but a new-born babe.
He lay, securely bound, in the bottom of his own canoe.
Beyond the panther kneeled the white giant who had overcome him. The man was wielding a paddle, while directly behind him Kaviri saw some of his own warriors similarly engaged.
I should not have harmed you had you not set upon me.
Tell me, what was the face of this bad white man like?
I am searching for one who has wronged me.
What other party?" "With the party that the very bad white man was pursuing.
There was a white man, woman, and the child, with six Mosula porters.
They passed up the river three days ahead of the very bad white man.
I think that they were running away from him." A white man, woman, and child!
The child must be his little Jack; but who could the woman be-and the man?
Kaviri's warriors plied the paddles in the three canoes, casting sidelong, terrified glances at their hideous passengers.
Kaviri and Mugambi sat alone in the palisaded village, waiting. Presently from a great distance came a hideous sound.
Mugambi recognized the weird challenge of the ape-man.
But what they are doing I know not, unless it be that they are devouring your people who ran away." Kaviri shuddered and rolled his eyes fearfully toward the jungle.
In all his long life in the savage forest he had never heard such an awful, fearsome din. Closer and closer came the sounds, and now with them were mingled the terrified shrieks of women and children and of men.
For twenty long minutes the blood-curdling cries continued, until they seemed but a stone's throw from the palisade.
Kaviri rose to flee, but Mugambi seized and held him, for such had been the command of Tarzan. A moment later a horde of terrified natives burst from the jungle, racing toward the shelter of their huts.
He explained to Mugambi the thing that he had in mind, and told Akut to follow the directions of the black. "I will join you again in a few days," he said.
All eyes immediately turned upward toward the foliage above. It was growing dark, and they could not penetrate the leafy screen which shielded the ape-man from their view.
I am a white man pursuing the very bad white man who passed this way a few days ago.
If you will not promise to take me in and treat me as a friend I shall let Sheeta stay and devour you." For a moment there was silence.
A moment later the sleek, black bodies were racing along the river path, up-stream, toward the east. In the village the chief maintained perfect quiet.
He would permit no one to approach the sleeping visitor, nor any singing, nor loud talking.
He was remarkably solicitous lest his guest be disturbed. Three hours later several canoes came silently into view from up the Ugambi.
They were being pushed ahead rapidly by the brawny muscles of their black crews.
Carefully have I kept silence in the village that he might be still asleep when you returned.
The latter nodded his head, to signify that the chief had made no mistake in his suspicions.
He stepped quite close to Tarzan. "Pig!" he cried.
At other times a quick, brief incursion into the branches above delayed it momentarily in its steady journey toward the east.
Like the shadow of a swift and silent death it circled the village, nose to ground, halting at last close to the palisade, where it almost touched the backs of several huts.
About a stout stake near the centre of the circling fires a little knot of black warriors stood conversing, their bodies smeared with white and blue and ochre in broad and grotesque bands.
For that he thanked Heaven; and he was thankful also that she at least was safe in the heart of the world's greatest city.
Safe among kind and loving friends who would do their best to lighten her misery. But the boy! Tarzan writhed at the thought of him.
The dance of death he could picture in his mind's eye-for he had seen the thing many times in the past.
Now he was to be the central figure, bound to the stake. The torture of the slow death as the circling warriors cut him to bits with the fiendish skill, that mutilated without bringing unconsciousness, had no terrors for him.
Presently his trained ears caught the sound of the soundless presence without-behind the hut wherein he lay.
His lips moved, and though no sound came forth that might have been appreciable to a human ear beyond the walls of his prison, yet he realized that the one beyond would hear.
Presently through the hole thus made slunk a great beast, pressing its cold muzzle close to his neck. It was Sheeta, the panther. The beast snuffed round the prostrate man, whining a little.
There was a limit to the interchange of ideas which could take place between these two, and so Tarzan could not be sure that Sheeta understood all that he attempted to communicate to him.
From the lips of the ape-man came a weird, uncanny sound, and in answer to it there leaped from the blackness of the hut's farthermost corner a bolt of fur-clad death.
Then came silence-silence except for the rending of bloody flesh and the crunching of human bones between mighty jaws. The noise had brought sudden quiet to the village without.
Then there came the sound of voices in consultation. High-pitched, fear-filled voices, and deep, low tones of authority, as the chief spoke.
Two in advance held lighted torches in their left hands and ready spears in their right.
With a quick movement he flung his lighted torch into the centre of the hut.
Tarzan was not surprised to discover that neither of them was Rokoff.
He told Tarzan that he himself was going to eat the ape-man's heart.
He enlarged upon the horrors of the future life of Tarzan's son, and intimated that his vengeance would reach as well to Jane Clayton. "You think your wife safe in England," said Rokoff.
She is even now in the hands of one not even of decent birth, and far from the safety of London and the protection of her friends.
Who was there now to rescue him?
The spears were commencing to find his body in the first torturing pricks that prefaced the more serious thrusts. It would not be long now.
I have come to offer you safety, liberty, and ease.
You have but to say the word and no further sorrows shall afflict you-even your baby shall be returned to you unharmed." Outside the door Sven Anderssen paused with the noonday meal he had been carrying to Lady Greystoke.
She fairly shuddered in the fellow's face. "I would not have been surprised, M.
I have known you for a scoundrel, M.
Rokoff; but until now I had not taken you for a fool." Rokoff's eyes narrowed, and the red of mortification flushed out the pallor of his face.
You'll learn what it means to insult Nikolas Rokoff." Jane Clayton turned wearily away. "What is the use," she said, "of expatiating upon the depths to which your vengeful nature can sink?
You cannot move me either by threats or deeds.
Did I, he would execrate my memory to the day of his death." Rokoff was now thoroughly angered because of his failure to reduce the girl to terror.
His evil face was convulsed with rage and desire.
Like a wild beast he sprang upon her, and with his strong fingers at her throat forced her backward upon the berth. At the same instant the door of the cabin opened noisily.
Rokoff leaped to his feet, and, turning, faced the Swede cook. Into the fellow's usually foxy eyes had come an expression of utter stupidity.
His lower jaw drooped in vacuous harmony.
He busied himself in arranging Lady Greystoke's meal upon the tiny table at one side of her cabin. The Russian glared at him. "What do you mean," he cried, "by entering here without permission?
Then he turned toward Jane Clayton. "I will give you until tomorrow," he said, "to reconsider your answer to my offer.
All will be sent ashore upon one pretext or another except you and the child, Paulvitch and myself.
Then without interruption you will be able to witness the death of the baby." He spoke in French that the cook might not understand the sinister portent of his words.
Hay treat me like darty dog.
You yust vait-Ay help you.
She tried to draw him into conversation relative to his plans to aid her, but all that she could get from him was his stereotyped prophecy as to the future state of the wind.
He seemed suddenly to have relapsed into his wonted state of dense stupidity. However, when he was leaving her cabin a little later with the empty dishes he whispered very low, "Leave on your clothes an' roll up your blankets.
Ay come back after you purty soon." He would have slipped from the room at once, but Jane laid her hand upon his sleeve. "My baby?" she asked.
I cannot go without him." "You do wot Ay tal you," said Anderssen, scowling.
Ay ban halpin' you, so don't you gat too fonny." When he had gone Jane Clayton sank down upon her berth in utter bewilderment.
What was she to do?
Suspicions as to the intentions of the Swede swarmed her brain.
Softly the door swung open to admit the muffled figure of the Swede.
On one arm he carried a bundle, evidently his blankets.
His other hand was raised in a gesture commanding silence, a grimy forefinger upon his lips. He came quite close to her. "Carry this," he said.
Do not make some noise when you see it.
We got no time to vaste." He snatched up her bundle of blankets, and outside the cabin door his own as well.
Then he led her to the ship's side, steadied her descent of the monkey-ladder, holding the child for her as she climbed to the waiting boat below.
Up this narrow channel the Swede turned the prow of the small boat. Jane Clayton wondered if the man knew where he was bound.
The giant trees overhung its narrow banks, meeting in a great arch above the centre of the river.
When she awoke it was broad daylight. About her were clustered a score of curious natives-mostly men, for among the aborigines it is the male who owns this characteristic in its most exaggerated form.
It scarce seemed credible that he could be serving her from motives purely chivalrous.
That it had gone of its own volition to bring the balance of the pack to his rescue, Tarzan could not doubt.
His Sheeta was indeed a jewel among beasts. Mugambi's absence worried the ape-man not a little.
The blacks were returning. With daylight their courage would be equal to the demands of a charge upon the handful of beasts that had routed them from their rightful abodes.
They had done their best, and now he was sure they would doubtless remain to die with him in a fruitless effort to defend him. The blacks were already preparing for the charge.
A few individuals had advanced a short distance toward the village and were exhorting the others to follow them.
In a moment the whole savage horde would be racing across the clearing. Tarzan thought only of the little child somewhere in this cruel, relentless wilderness.
His heart ached for the son that he might no longer seek to save-that and the realization of Jane's suffering were all that weighed upon his brave spirit in these that he thought his last moments of life.
Succour, all that he could hope for, had come to him in the instant of his extremity-and failed.
There was nothing further for which to hope. The blacks were half-way across the clearing when Tarzan's attention was attracted by the actions of one of the apes.
The beast was glaring toward one of the huts.
To his infinite relief and delight he saw the stalwart form of Mugambi racing toward him. The huge black was panting heavily as though from strenuous physical exertion and nervous excitement.
Instead, he took his party hurriedly to the river, where they stole a number of canoes the blacks had hidden there.
The little band had been reduced by three, for three of Akut's apes had fallen in the fighting at the village.
Now, with Akut, there were five great apes, and Sheeta was there-and Mugambi and Tarzan. The ape-man no longer heard rumors even of the three who had preceded Rokoff-the white man and woman and the child.
Who the man and woman were he could not guess, but that the child was his was enough to keep him hot upon the trail.
He had seen them all, and this fellow had not been there.
There could be but one explanation-he it was who had fled ahead of the Russian with the woman and the child-and the woman had been Jane Clayton.
He was sure now of the meaning of Rokoff's words. The ape-man's face went white as he looked upon the pasty, vice-marked countenance of the Swede.
Then Tarzan turned toward him.
His face was cold and cruel, and in the grey eyes the Swede read murder. "Where is my wife?" growled the ape-man.
Like a bronze image-cold, hard, and relentless-he stood over the helpless man, waiting to wring such information from him as he needed, and then to kill. Presently the coughing and haemorrhage ceased, and again the wounded man tried to speak.
Tarzan knelt near the faintly moving lips. "The wife and child!" he repeated.
Where are they?" Anderssen pointed up the trail. "The Russian-he got them," he whispered. "How did you come here?" continued Tarzan.
Why are you not with Rokoff?" "They catch us," replied Anderssen, in a voice so low that the ape-man could just distinguish the words.
Ay fight, but my men they all run away.
Then they get me when Ay ban vounded.
Rokoff he say leave me here for the hyenas.
That vas vorse than to kill.
Speak quick before I kill you!
Make your peace with God!
Tell me the worst, or I will tear you to pieces with my hands and teeth.
You have seen that I can do it!" A look of wide-eyed surprise overspread Anderssen's face. "Why," he whispered, "Ay did not hurt them.
Ay tried to save them from that Russian.
Your vife was kind to me on the Kincaid, and Ay hear that little baby cry sometimes.
Ay got a vife an' kid for my own by Christiania an' Ay couldn't bear for to see them separated an' in Rokoff's hands any more.
I had looked for none but knaves in company with Rokoff.
I see that I was wrong.
That is past now, and we will drop it for the more important matter of getting you to a place of comfort and looking after your wounds.
We must have you on your feet again as soon as possible." The Swede, smiling, shook his head. "You go on an' look for the vife an' kid," he said.
Ay ban as gude as dead already; but"-he hesitated-"Ay hate to think of the hyenas.
Von't you finish up this job?" Tarzan shuddered.
A moment ago he had been upon the point of killing this man.
That was all he could do in the cruel jungle for the man who had given his life in the service of his little son and his wife. Then Tarzan took up again the pursuit of Rokoff.
That the experience should have befallen him at such a time seemed cruel beyond expression.
Tarzan, not to be thwarted in any such manner as this, pursued them, and after a brief chase caught up with a young warrior.
Behind him he had expected to see a horde of demons disguised as apes and panthers. In this Tarzan saw the cunning hand of Rokoff.
In that very village he had hanged five for theft and attempted desertion.
I was near as he talked with them, and heard him issuing his instructions to them.
If you are not then asleep they will wait quietly beside you until you do sleep, and then they will all fall upon you together and slay you.
M'ganwazam knows where they camp.
It died here in our village of the fever and they buried it!" CHAPTER XII. A Black Scoundrel When Jane Clayton regained consciousness she saw Anderssen standing over her, holding the baby in his arms.
As her eyes rested upon them an expression of misery and horror overspread her countenance. "What is the matter?" he asked.
You ban sick?" "Where is my baby?" she cried, ignoring his questions. Anderssen held out the chubby infant, but she shook her head. "It is not mine," she said.
You knew that it was not mine.
You are a devil like the Russian." Anderssen's blue eyes stretched in surprise. "Not yours!" he exclaimed.
You tole me the kid aboard the Kincaid ban your kid." "Not this one," replied Jane dully.
Where is the other? There must have been two.
I did not know about this one." "There vasn't no other kid.
Ay tank this ban yours.
Ay am very sorry." Anderssen fidgeted about, standing first on one foot and then upon the other.
If he ain't ban your kid, Ay don' know whose kid he do ban.
Rokoff said it was yours.
Ay tank he tank so, too. "What do we do with it now?
Ay can't go back to the Kincaid.
Rokoff would have me shot; but you can go back.
Ay take you to the sea, and then some of these black men they take you to the ship-eh?" "No! no!" cried Jane.
I would rather die than fall into the hands of that man again.
No, let us go on and take this poor little creature with us.
Whether they had been wandering for days or years she could not tell.
Word came to them from time to time through natives passing from the coast on hunting excursions that Rokoff had not yet guessed the direction of their flight.
Her tent was always pitched in the most favourable location.
At the end of canoe navigation upon the river, they abandoned their canoe and took to the jungle.
The Swede went ahead, to hew a way through the brush where the path was entirely overgrown, so that on this march it was necessary that the young woman carry the child. All day they marched.
Late in the afternoon they realized that they had failed.
The Mosula told me its location before they deserted us.
Ay try to lead the Russian off your trail, then you go on to the village.
Ay tank the chief ban friendly to white men-the Mosula tal me he ban.
Anyhow, that was all we can do. "After while you get chief to tak you down by the Mosula village at the sea again, an' after a while a ship is sure to put into the mouth of the Ugambi.
Then you be all right.
Gude-by an' gude luck to you, lady!" "But where are you going, Sven?" asked Jane.
I shall not let you die to save me if I can prevent it in any way.
I can use that, and together we may be able to hold them off until we can find some means of escape." "It won't work, lady," replied Anderssen.
They would only get us both, and then Ay couldn't do you no good at all.
Think of the kid, lady, and what it would be for you both to fall into Rokoff's hands again.
For his sake you must do what Ay say.
Here, take my rifle and ammunition; you may need them." He shoved the gun and bandoleer into the shelter beside Jane.
Then he was gone. She watched him as he returned along the path to meet the oncoming safari of the Russian.
Soon a turn in the trail hid him from view. Her first impulse was to follow.
As she drew the baby close to her she glanced down into its little face. How red it was!
How unnatural the little thing looked.
She raised the cheek to hers.
It was fiery hot with fever! With a little gasp of terror Jane Clayton rose to her feet in the jungle path.
The rifle and bandoleer lay forgotten in the shelter beside her.
If she could but reach it-in time! There was no time to be lost.
Like a startled antelope she turned and fled up the trail in the direction Anderssen had indicated. From far behind came the sudden shouting of men, the sound of shots, and then silence.
She knew that Anderssen had met the Russian. A half-hour later she stumbled, exhausted, into a little thatched village.
She heard the voices of the natives raised in controversy, but she could not understand the words. Presently she heard footsteps approaching the hut in which she squatted before a bright fire with the baby on her lap.
The little thing lay very still now, its lids, half-raised, showed the pupils horribly upturned. Jane Clayton looked into the little face with fear-haunted eyes.
It was not her baby-not her flesh and blood-but how close, how dear the tiny, helpless thing had become to her.
To Jane Clayton he looked more gorilla than human.
M'ganwazam had left the hut.
Sometime later she heard a noise at the entrance-another had entered.
If you had attended to your own affairs I should have brought it here myself. "You would have been spared the dangers and fatigue of the journey.
Thank God he is beyond your power to harm." Grasping the import of her words, Rokoff snatched the blanket from the child's face to seek confirmation of his fears.
Jane Clayton watched his expression closely. She had been puzzled for days for an answer to the question of Rokoff's knowledge of the child's identity.
At last he halted in front of the young woman, bringing his face down close to hers. "You are laughing at me," he shrieked.
You think that you have beaten me-eh?
I'll show you, as I have shown the miserable ape you call 'husband,' what it means to interfere with the plans of Nikolas Rokoff. "You have robbed me of the child.
Her brain and nerves were numb to suffering and shock. To his surprise a faint, almost happy smile touched her lips.
If he continued to believe that the child had been hers, so much safer would be the real Jack wherever he might be.
That he would do, or attempt to do, all that he had promised, she was perfectly sure; but at the worst it meant but a little earlier release from the hideous anguish that she had been enduring.
Go away and leave me in peace with my dead.
Have you not brought sufficient misery and anguish upon me without attempting to harm me further?
What wrong have I ever done you that you should persist in persecuting me?" "You are suffering for the sins of the monkey you chose when you might have had the love of a gentleman-of Nikolas Rokoff," he replied.
But where is the use in discussing the matter?
We shall bury the child here, and you will return with me at once to my own camp.
Tomorrow I shall bring you back and turn you over to your new husband-the lovely M'ganwazam.
Come!" He reached out for the child.
Jane, who was on her feet now, turned away from him. "I shall bury the body," she said.
Send some men to dig a grave outside the village." Rokoff was anxious to have the thing over and get back to his camp with his victim.
Then, indeed, would there be that for which to live, and every reason to believe that succour was close at hand-but he was dead!
It was incredible that it should be so. There seemed no place in death for that great body and those mighty thews.
Had Rokoff been the one to tell her of her lord's passing she would have known that he lied.
There could be no reason, she thought, why M'ganwazam should have deceived her.
Here they found all in turmoil.
Repeatedly he struck Jane Clayton in the face, until at last, half-conscious, she was dragged within his tent. Rokoff's boy had lighted the Russian's lamp, and now at a word from his master he made himself scarce.
Jane had sunk to the floor in the middle of the enclosure.
Slowly her numbed senses were returning to her and she was commencing to think very fast indeed.
At his belt hung a heavy revolver.
Jane Clayton's eyes riveted themselves upon it.
Her palm itched to grasp the huge butt.
She feigned again to swoon, but through her half-closed lids she waited her opportunity. It came just as Rokoff was lifting her upon the cot.
A noise at the tent door behind him brought his head quickly about and away from the girl.
The butt of the gun was not an inch from her hand.
A moment later the girl stood beside him-for a moment at least free from the menace of his lust. Outside the tent she again heard the noise that had distracted Rokoff's attention.
Quickly she returned to the side of the unconscious Russian.
In his belt her groping fingers came upon the hilt of a long hunting-knife, and with this she cut a hole in the back wall of the tent. Silently she stepped without.
To her immense relief she saw that the camp was apparently asleep.
The thought of the prowling beasts out there in the darkness was appalling.
Then, with a sudden brave toss of her head, she attacked the thorny boma wall with her delicate hands.
Rokoff had that morning been discovered stunned and bleeding within his tent.
Tarzan saw that Rokoff was not among them, and so he let them go their way-his business was with the Russian, whom he expected to find in his tent.
Until now she had forgotten them entirely.
They came together in a little knot, where they stood looking backward, as though in expectation of the coming of others of their tribe.
He would gladly have forgone any designs he might have had upon Jane Clayton would she but permit him to share this means of escape that she had discovered.
The girl almost collapsed with the reaction from the terrific mental, physical, and nervous strain under which she had been labouring for the past few minutes.
One hand upstretched grasped the gunwale.
Rokoff sat frozen with fear, unable to move a hand or foot, his eyes riveted upon the face of his Nemesis. Then a sudden commotion in the water behind the swimmer caught his attention.
But loud as he screamed his cries awakened no answering challenge from the deck of the silent craft. Upon the shore behind him a hurried backward glance revealed the presence of the snarling pack.
Could it be that the vessel was deserted, and that, after all, he was doomed to be overtaken by the terrible fate that he had been flying from through all these hideous days and nights?
Beyond her she saw a monkey-ladder dangling over the steamer's side.
All about him was the blackness of the pit-the silence of the grave. For a moment Tarzan of the Apes lay gasping for breath upon the slimy, evil-smelling bed to which the animal had borne him.
To his utter amazement he found that the beast was dead.
As the ape-man reached the surface he saw the heads of two great crocodiles but a short distance from him.
From this belief he garnered some slight surcease from the numbing grief that the death of his little son had thrust upon him. And such a death!
His idea was to search the shore that night for signs of the Russian and the woman who he was certain must have preceded Rokoff down the Ugambi.
With a stifled sob she gave up the unequal battle. CHAPTER XVII. On the Deck of the "Kincaid" When Mugambi had turned back into the jungle with the pack he had a definite purpose in view.
It was to obtain a dugout wherewith to transport the beasts of Tarzan to the side of the Kincaid.
To Mugambi's astonishment he saw that it was a native woman.
With a scream he turned and fled toward the bridge. After him pounced Sheeta the panther, unmindful of his master's warning voice. Tarzan was about to leap after the two when he felt a light touch upon his arm.
Turning, he found Jane at his elbow. "Do not leave me," she whispered.
I am afraid." Tarzan glanced behind her. All about were the hideous apes of Akut.
Some, even, were approaching the young woman with bared fangs and menacing guttural warnings. The ape-man warned them back.
He had forgotten for the moment that these were but beasts, unable to differentiate his friends and his foes.
In fact, even now one of the brutes was leaping to seize the bridge-rail and draw himself up to the Russian's side. Before him was the panther, silent and crouched. Rokoff could not move.
His voice broke in inarticulate shrieks.
A cold smile of satisfaction touched his lips.
The scar upon his forehead that had burned scarlet faded to the normal hue of his tanned skin and disappeared. Rokoff fought furiously but futilely against the growling, rending fate that had overtaken him.
The bridge of the Kincaid was slippery with blood.
Beneath the brilliant tropic moon the great beast feasted until, when the sun rose the following morning, there remained of Tarzan's great enemy only gnawed and broken bones. Of the Russian's party, all were accounted for except Paulvitch.
Four were prisoners in the Kincaid's forecastle.
Until positive proof of the baby's death reached them there was always that to buoy them up. It seemed quite evident that their little Jack had not been brought aboard the Kincaid.
He could do much with that if he could but get his hands upon it.
A youth was paddling lazily out into midstream from a point beside the village.
The lad yawned and stretched.
The boy's lids drooped and closed.
Presently his breast rose and fell to the deep breaths of slumber.
The time had come! The Russian crept stealthily nearer.
A branch rustled beneath his weight and the lad stirred in his sleep.
Paulvitch drew his revolver and levelled it upon the black.
For a moment he remained in rigid quiet, and then again the youth relapsed into undisturbed slumber. The white man crept closer.
He could not chance a shot until there was no risk of missing.
Presently he leaned close above the Mosula.
The cold steel of the revolver in his hand insinuated itself nearer and nearer to the breast of the unconscious lad.
Did any qualm of conscience point its disquieting finger of reproach at the murderer? To all such was Alexander Paulvitch immune.
A sneer curled his bearded lip as his forefinger closed upon the trigger of his revolver.
There was a loud report.
A little hole appeared above the heart of the sleeping boy, a little hole about which lay a blackened rim of powder-burned flesh. The youthful body half rose to a sitting posture.
Ruthless hands seized the dead boy heartlessly and raised him to the low gunwale.
Life and vengeance were not to elude him after all. He stopped paddling the moment that he descried the gleaming beacon of hope ahead of him.
No sound came from the vessel's deck.
Paulvitch drifted, unseen, close to the Kincaid's side.
He could just reach them.
To make his canoe fast there was the work of but a minute or two, and then the man raised himself quietly aloft. A moment later he dropped softly to the deck.
Paulvitch crept stealthily toward the forecastle.
The man raised his eyes from the magazine-eyes that went wide for a moment as they fell upon the familiar countenance of Rokoff's lieutenant, only to narrow instantly in a scowl of disapproval. "The devil!" he ejaculated.
We all thought you were done for and gone where you ought to have gone a long time ago.
His lordship will be mighty pleased to see you." Paulvitch crossed to the sailor's side.
A friendly smile lay on the Russian's lips, and his right hand was extended in greeting, as though the other might have been a dear and long lost friend.
The sailor ignored the proffered hand, nor did he return the other's smile. "I've come to help you," explained Paulvitch.
I'm going to help you get rid of the Englishman and his beasts-then there will be no danger from the law when we get back to civilization.
We can sneak in on them while they sleep-that is Greystoke, his wife, and that black scoundrel, Mugambi.
Afterward it will be a simple matter to clean up the beasts. Where are they?" "They're below," replied the sailor; "but just let me tell you something, Paulvitch.
You haven't got no more show to turn us men against the Englishman than nothing.
We had all we wanted of you and that other beast.
He's dead, an' if I don't miss my guess a whole lot you'll be dead too before long.
Here, you wouldn't have no chance.
Don't you know that the Englishman will have you all hanged when he gets you back where the law can get hold of you?" "No, he won't do nothing of the kind," replied the sailor.
He's told us as much, for he says that there wasn't nobody to blame but you and Rokoff-the rest of us was just tools.
See?" For half an hour the Russian pleaded or threatened as the mood seized him.
No," he said; "Lord and Lady Greystoke have the captain's cabin.
A moment later he withdrew from its hiding-place the thing he sought.
In one was a mechanism which resembled the works of a small clock.
There also was a little battery of two dry cells.
You might have overlooked some trifling thing that won't be of no use to you in the jungle, but that'll come in mighty handy to a poor sailorman in London.
Every condition seemed ideal for the commencement of the return voyage to Jungle Island, where the beasts were to be left.
And then-home! The ape-man aroused the mate and gave instructions that the Kincaid sail at the earliest possible moment.
The beasts had sought the shade of the galley, where they were curled up in sleep.
Only Tarzan of the Apes and his wife retained their composure.
He guessed the truth; but discretion sealed his lips.
The flames had reached the engine-room, and the ship no longer moved toward the shore.
Her fate was as certain as though the waters had already closed above her charred and smoking remains. "It is useless to remain aboard her longer," remarked the ape-man to the mate.
A half-sad smile curved the lips of the ape-man as he watched them go. "Good-bye, my friends," he murmured.
You have been good and faithful allies, and I shall miss you." "They will return, will they not, dear?" asked Jane Clayton, at his side. "They may and they may not," replied the ape-man.
They have been ill at ease since they were forced to accept so many human beings into their confidence.
Mugambi and I alone affected them less, for he and I are, at best, but half human.
I think they are just trying to escape you," she retorted.
You are always making them stop something which they see no reason why they should not do.
Like little children they are doubtless delighted at this opportunity to flee from the zone of parental discipline.
If they come back, though, I hope they won't come by night." "Or come hungry, eh?" laughed Tarzan. For two hours after landing the little party stood watching the burning ship which they had abandoned.
Then there came faintly to them from across the water the sound of a second explosion.
A daylight watch was maintained from sunrise to sunset upon a bluff near the camp-a jutting shoulder of rock which overlooked the sea.
Not that Gust entertained any scruples on the subject, other than those which induced in him a rare regard for his own personal safety.
There is always a certain element of risk to the assassin, for victims of deadly assault are seldom prone to die quietly and considerately.
There is always a certain element of risk to go so far as to dispute the issue with the murderer.
It was this chance of dispute which Gust preferred to forgo. But now that the work was done the Swede aspired to the position of highest command among the mutineers.
He had even gone so far as to appropriate and wear certain articles belonging to the murdered captain of the Cowrie-articles of apparel which bore upon them the badges and insignia of authority. Kai Shang was peeved.
There was no telling, he insisted, but that the ship they had seen was actually searching for them.
Kai Shang pointed out that such could not be the case since it was impossible for any human being other than themselves to have knowledge of what had transpired aboard the Cowrie. But Gust was not to be persuaded.
In his wicked heart he nursed a scheme whereby he might increase his share of the booty by something like one hundred per cent.
Some day there would come a moment when Kai Shang, Momulla, and three or four of the others would be absent from camp, exploring or hunting.
We are old friends, Momulla; we cannot afford to quarrel, at least not while old Kai Shang is plotting to steal all the pearls from us.
If he could find a man to navigate the Cowrie he would leave us in a minute.
All his talk about getting away from here is just because he has some scheme in his head to get rid of us." "But the wireless," asked Momulla.
What has the wireless to do with our remaining here?" "Oh yes," replied Gust, scratching his head.
He was wondering if the Maori were really so ignorant as to believe the preposterous lie he was about to unload upon him.
You see every warship is equipped with what they call a wireless apparatus.
It lets them talk to other ships hundreds of miles away, and it lets them listen to all that is said on these other ships.
Now, you see, when you fellows were shooting up the Cowrie you did a whole lot of loud talking, and there isn't any doubt but that that warship was a-lyin' off south of us listenin' to it all.
Of course they might not have learned the name of the ship, but they heard enough to know that the crew of some ship was mutinying and killin' her officers.
At last he rose. "You are a great liar," he said.
He will tell you that there is such a thing and that vessels can talk to one another across hundreds of miles of water.
It ain't none of our business anyway to save the Englishman.
Let him look out for himself, says I.
He paused for a moment, and then eyeing the other to note the effect of his next words, he continued, "But we might take the woman.
It would be a shame to leave a nice-lookin' piece like she is in such a Gott-forsaken hole as this here island." Schmidt looked up and grinned. "So that's how she's blowin', is it?" he asked.
Why didn't you say so in the first place?
Wot's in it for me if I help you?" "She ought to pay us well to get her back to civilization," explained Schneider, "an' I tell you what I'll do.
I'll just whack up with the two men that helps me.
I'll take half an' they can divide the other half-you an' whoever the other bloke is.
I'm sick of this place, an' the sooner I get out of it the better I'll like it.
What do you say?" "Suits me," replied Schmidt.
Schneider and his companion started as nervously as though a ghost had risen before them. Schneider reached for his revolver.
Momulla raised his right hand, palm forward, as a sign of his pacific intentions. "I am a friend," he said.
I heard you; but do not fear that I will reveal what you have said.
I can help you, and you can help me.
You can navigate a ship, but you have no ship. We have a ship, but no one to navigate it.
If you will come with us and ask no questions we will let you take the ship where you will after you have landed us at a certain port, the name of which we will give you later.
You can take the woman of whom you speak, and we will ask no questions either.
Is it a bargain?" Schneider desired more information, and got as much as Momulla thought best to give him.
Then the Maori suggested that they speak with Kai Shang.
The two members of the Kincaid's company followed Momulla and his fellows to a point in the jungle close by the camp of the mutineers.
Here Momulla hid them while he went in search of Kai Shang, first admonishing his Maori companions to stand guard over the two sailors lest they change their minds and attempt to escape.
Schneider and Schmidt were virtually prisoners, though they did not know it. Presently Momulla returned with Kai Shang, to whom he had briefly narrated the details of the stroke of good fortune that had come to them.
Now at last they saw a feasible plan for leaving the island upon a seaworthy craft.
Also he turned almost white beneath his tan.
Quite precipitately he left the cook's tent.
He was not one who required a detailed exposition of intentions that were quite all too obvious. As surely as though he had heard them plotting, he knew that Kai Shang and Momulla had come to take his life.
He had seen Kai Shang garrotte a man at Pai-sha in a dark alleyway back of Loo Kotai's place.
He feared the rope, therefore, more than he did the knife of the Maori; but he feared them both too much to remain within reach of either.
Therefore he chose the pitiless jungle. CHAPTER XXI. The Law of the Jungle In Tarzan's camp, by dint of threats and promised rewards, the ape-man had finally succeeded in getting the hull of a large skiff almost completed.
In the man's eyes were hate and fear, and a great curiosity.
Why went Kai Shang and Momulla and the others thus stealthily toward the south?
What did they expect to find there?
Gust shook his low-browed head in perplexity.
Its members concealed themselves in the foliage bordering the game trail along which they had come.
Gust could not overhear what passed between them.
Then the man returned in the direction from which he had come. He was Schneider.
Nearing his camp he circled to the opposite side of it, and presently came running in breathlessly.
Excitedly he hastened to Mugambi. "Quick!" he cried.
Those apes of yours have caught Schmidt and will kill him if we do not hasten to his aid.
You alone can call them off. Take Jones and Sullivan-you may need help-and get to him as quick as you can.
Follow the game trail south for about a mile.
I am too spent with running to go back with you," and the mate of the Kincaid threw himself upon the ground, panting as though he was almost done for. Mugambi hesitated.
He had been left to guard the two women.
He did not know what to do, and then Jane Clayton, who had heard Schneider's story, added her pleas to those of the mate. "Do not delay," she urged.
We shall be all right here.
Mr. Schneider will remain with us.
Schneider saw the Chinaman, and motioned to him that the coast was clear. Jane Clayton and the Mosula woman were sitting at the opening of the former's tent, their backs toward the approaching ruffians.
At his side stood Schmidt.
Jones and Sullivan trailed far behind.
Jones and Sullivan came up with the black warrior as the latter stood voicing his weird call.
For another half-mile the black searched, calling occasionally. Finally the truth flashed upon him, and then, like a frightened deer, he wheeled and dashed back toward camp.
Arriving there, it was but a moment before full confirmation of his fears was impressed upon him. Lady Greystoke and the Mosula woman were gone.
But why had he taken the black woman as well?
He came straight toward the four men.
He was an entire stranger to all of them, not one of whom had dreamed that another human being than those of their own camp dwelt upon the unfriendly shores of Jungle Island. It was Gust.
He came directly to the point. "Your women were stolen," he said.
If you want ever to see them again, come quickly and follow me.
If we do not hurry the Cowrie will be standing out to sea by the time we reach her anchorage." "Who are you?" asked Tarzan.
What do you know of the theft of my wife and the black woman?" "I heard Kai Shang and Momulla the Maori plot with two men of your camp.
They had chased me from our camp, and would have killed me.
Now I will get even with them.
Come!" Gust led the four men of the Kincaid's camp at a rapid trot through the jungle toward the north.
Would they come to the sea in time?
Tarzan's broad chest rose and fell to the force of his pent emotions.
The night was hot and sultry.
No slightest breeze ruffled the foliage of the trees or rippled the mirror-like surface of the ocean. Only a gentle swell rolled softly in upon the beach. Never had Tarzan seen the great Atlantic so ominously at peace.
A moment later the tawny figure of Sheeta slunk out into the half-light of the beach.
There was no moon, but the sky was brilliant with stars.
Silently the savage brute came to the side of the man.
He strained his eyes into the night.
Then he turned and called aloud to the men smoking upon their blankets in the camp.
They came running to his side; but Gust hesitated when he saw the nature of Tarzan's companion. "Look!" cried Tarzan.
It must be the Cowrie. They are becalmed.
And then with an exclamation of renewed hope, "We can reach them!
The skiff will carry us easily." Gust demurred.
They are well armed," he warned.
We could not take the ship-just five of us." "There are six now," replied Tarzan, pointing to Sheeta, "and we can have more still in a half-hour.
Sheeta is the equivalent of twenty men, and the few others I can bring will add full a hundred to our fighting strength.
Among what sort of creatures had fate thrown him?
Presently from the deck above came a shout of warning and a shot.
For an instant Jane Clayton relaxed her vigilance, and turned her eyes toward the cabin skylight.
Simultaneously Schneider was upon her. The first intimation the watch had that there was another craft within a thousand miles of the Cowrie came when he saw the head and shoulders of a man poked over the ship's side.
Instantly the fellow sprang to his feet with a cry and levelled his revolver at the intruder.
It was his cry and the subsequent report of the revolver which threw Jane Clayton off her guard. Upon deck the quiet of fancied security soon gave place to the wildest pandemonium.
The crew of the Cowrie rushed above armed with revolvers, cutlasses, and the long knives that many of them habitually wore; but the alarm had come too late.
Already the beasts of Tarzan were upon the ship's deck, with Tarzan and the two men of the Kincaid's crew. In the face of the frightful beasts the courage of the mutineers wavered and broke.
Those with revolvers fired a few scattering shots and then raced for some place of supposed safety.
Schneider felt sinewy fingers at his throat.
He turned his head to see who had attacked him, and his eyes went wide when he saw the face of the ape-man close above his own. Grimly the fingers tightened upon the mate's throat.
He tried to scream, to plead, but no sound came forth.
Before have I permitted scoundrels to live, only to suffer and to have you suffer for my mercy.
With a gesture of disgust Tarzan tossed the corpse aside.
Then he returned to the deck, followed by Jane and the Mosula woman. The battle there was over.
Schmidt and Momulla and two others alone remained alive of all the company of the Cowrie, for they had found sanctuary in the forecastle.
A CONNECTICUT YANKEE IN KING ARTHUR'S COURT by MARK TWAIN (Samuel L.
Clemens) PREFACE The ungentle laws and customs touched upon in this tale are historical, and the episodes which are used to illustrate them are also historical.
He was so little interested--just as when people speak of the weather--that he did not notice whether I made him any answer or not.
From time to time I dipped into old Sir Thomas Malory's enchanting book, and fed at its rich feast of prodigies and adventures, breathed in the fragrance of its obsolete names, and dreamed again.
Sir Launcelot put his shield afore him, and put the stroke away of the one giant, and with his sword he clave his head asunder.
When his fellow saw that, he ran away as he were wood [*demented], for fear of the horrible strokes, and Sir Launcelot after him with all his might, and smote him on the shoulder, and clave him to the middle.
Then Sir Launcelot went into the hall, and there came afore him three score ladies and damsels, and all kneeled unto him, and thanked God and him of their deliverance.
Fair damsels, he said, my name is Sir Launcelot du Lake.
And so he departed from them and betaught them unto God.
And then he mounted upon his horse, and rode into many strange and wild countries, and through many waters and valleys, and evil was he lodged.
And when time was, his host brought him into a fair garret over the gate to his bed.
There Sir Launcelot unarmed him, and set his harness by him, and went to bed, and anon he fell on sleep.
So, soon after there came one on horseback, and knocked at the gate in great haste.
Truly, said Sir Launcelot, yonder one knight shall I help, for it were shame for me to see three knights on one, and if he be slain I am partner of his death.
And therewith he took his harness and went out at a window by a sheet down to the four knights, and then Sir Launcelot said on high, Turn you knights unto me, and leave your fighting with that knight.
And then they all three left Sir Kay, and turned unto Sir Launcelot, and there began great battle, for they alight all three, and strake many strokes at Sir Launcelot, and assailed him on every side.
Then Sir Kay dressed him for to have holpen Sir Launcelot.
Nay, sir, said he, I will none of your help, therefore as ye will have my help let me alone with them.
Sir Kay for the pleasure of the knight suffered him for to do his will, and so stood aside.
And then anon within six strokes Sir Launcelot had stricken them to the earth. And then they all three cried, Sir Knight, we yield us unto you as man of might matchless.
As to that, said Sir Launcelot, I will not take your yielding unto me, but so that ye yield you unto Sir Kay the seneschal, on that covenant I will save your lives and else not.
Fair knight, said they, that were we loath to do; for as for Sir Kay we chased him hither, and had overcome him had ye not been; therefore, to yield us unto him it were no reason.
Well, as to that, said Sir Launcelot, advise you well, for ye may choose whether ye will die or live, for an ye be yielden, it shall be unto Sir Kay.
Fair knight, then they said, in saving our lives we will do as thou commandest us.
Then soon after arose Sir Kay and missed Sir Launcelot; and then he espied that he had his armor and his horse.
I was born and reared in Hartford, in the State of Connecticut--anyway, just over the river, in the country.
So I am a Yankee of the Yankees--and practical; yes, and nearly barren of sentiment, I suppose--or poetry, in other words.
My father was a blacksmith, my uncle was a horse doctor, and I was both, along at first.
Then I went over to the great arms factory and learned my real trade; learned all there was to it; learned to make everything: guns, revolvers, cannon, boilers, engines, all sorts of labor-saving machinery.
I became head superintendent; had a couple of thousand men under me. Well, a man like that is a man that is full of fight--that goes without saying.
With a couple of thousand rough men under one, one has plenty of that sort of amusement.
At last I met my match, and I got my dose.
Not entirely; for there was a fellow on a horse, looking down at me--a fellow fresh out of a picture-book.
We fixed up an agreement whereby I was to go with him and he was not to hurt me.
So I gave up the idea of a circus, and concluded he was from an asylum.
But we never came to an asylum--so I was up a stump, as you may say.
I asked him how far we were from Hartford. He said he had never heard of the place; which I took to be a lie, but allowed it to go at that.
How long ago that was!" He handed me his manuscript, and pointed out the place where I should begin: "Begin here--I've already told you what goes before.
He was steeped in drowsiness by this time.
As I went out at his door I heard him murmur sleepily: "Give you good den, fair sir." I sat down by my fire and examined my treasure.
I don't seem to remember hearing of it before.
Name of the asylum, likely." It was a soft, reposeful summer landscape, as lovely as a dream, and as lonesome as Sunday.
The air was full of the smell of flowers, and the buzzing of insects, and the twittering of birds, and there were no people, no wagons, there was no stir of life, nothing going on.
It was as sweet an outfit as ever I saw, what there was of it.
She walked indolently along, with a mind at rest, its peace reflected in her innocent face.
The circus man paid no attention to her; didn't even seem to see her.
And she--she was no more startled at his fantastic make-up than if she was used to his like every day of her life.
She was going by as indifferently as she might have gone by a couple of cows; but when she happened to notice me, _then_ there was a change!
Up went her hands, and she was turned to stone; her mouth dropped open, her eyes stared wide and timorously, she was the picture of astonished curiosity touched with fear.
And there she stood gazing, in a sort of stupefied fascination, till we turned a corner of the wood and were lost to her view.
That she should be startled at me instead of at the other man, was too many for me; I couldn't make head or tail of it.
I moved along as one in a dream. As we approached the town, signs of life began to appear.
At intervals we passed a wretched cabin, with a thatched roof, and about it small fields and garden patches in an indifferent state of cultivation.
There were people, too; brawny men, with long, coarse, uncombed hair that hung down over their faces and made them look like animals.
They and the women, as a rule, wore a coarse tow-linen robe that came well below the knee, and a rude sort of sandal, and many wore an iron collar.
The small boys and girls were always naked; but nobody seemed to know it.
Then he went on to say he was an under-cook and could not stop to gossip, though he would like it another time; for it would comfort his very liver to know where I got my clothes.
As he started away he pointed and said yonder was one who was idle enough for my purpose, and was seeking me besides, no doubt.
By his look, he was good-natured; by his gait, he was satisfied with himself.
He was pretty enough to frame.
However, it never phazed him; he didn't appear to know he was hurt.
I stopped and said, a little faintly: "Maybe I didn't hear you just right.
Say it again--and say it slow.
What year was it?" "513." "513!
Come, my boy, I am a stranger and friendless; be honest and honorable with me.
Are you in your right mind?" He said he was. "Are these other people in their right minds?" He said they were. "And this isn't an asylum?
I mean, it isn't a place where they cure crazy people?" He said it wasn't. "Well, then," I said, "either I am a lunatic, or something just as awful has happened.
They will not be born for more than thirteen hundred years yet." I seemed to believe the boy, I didn't know why. _Something_ in me seemed to believe him--my consciousness, as you may say; but my reason didn't.
My reason straightway began to clamor; that was natural.
I didn't know how to go about satisfying it, because I knew that the testimony of men wouldn't serve--my reason would say they were lunatics, and throw out their evidence.
But all of a sudden I stumbled on the very thing, just by luck.
I knew that the only total eclipse of the sun in the first half of the sixth century occurred on the 21st of June, A.D.
528, O.S., and began at 3 minutes after 12 noon.
One thing at a time, is my motto--and just play that thing for all it is worth, even if it's only two pair and a jack.
What is the name of that apparition that brought me here?" "My master and thine?
I saw that the last chance had the best show, but I didn't waste any bother about that; time was too precious.
There was a fireplace big enough to camp in; and its projecting sides and hood, of carved and pillared stonework, had the look of a cathedral door.
It was as large as a circus ring; and around it sat a great company of men dressed in such various and splendid colors that it hurt one's eyes to look at them.
And plainly, too, they were a childlike and innocent lot; telling lies of the stateliest pattern with a most gentle and winning naivety, and ready and willing to listen to anybody else's lie, and believe it, too.
It was hard to associate them with anything cruel or dreadful; and yet they dealt in tales of blood and suffering with a guileless relish that made me almost forget to shudder. I was not the only prisoner present.
There were twenty or more. Poor devils, many of them were maimed, hacked, carved, in a frightful way; and their hair, their faces, their clothing, were caked with black and stiffened drenchings of blood.
Yet there was something very engaging about these great simple-hearted creatures, something attractive and lovable.
Oh, call me pet names, dearest, call me a marine!
In twice a thousand years shall the unholy invention of man labor at odds to beget the fellow to this majestic lie!" Every eye was fastened with severe inquiry upon Sir Kay.
But he was equal to the occasion.
He got up and played his hand like a major--and took every trick.
Ah, he fetched them; it was a rattling good stroke.
Would God I had died or I saw this day!" "Who is it?" "Merlin, the mighty liar and magician, perdition singe him for the weariness he worketh with his one tale!
He telleth it always in the third person, making believe he is too modest to glorify himself--maledictions light upon him, misfortune be his dole!
Good friend, prithee call me for evensong." The boy nestled himself upon my shoulder and pretended to go to sleep.
The old man began his tale; and presently the lad was asleep in reality; so also were the dogs, and the court, the lackeys, and the files of men-at-arms.
The droning voice droned on; a soft snoring arose on all sides and supported it like a deep and subdued accompaniment of wind instruments.
It was a tranquil scene, and restful to the weary eye and the jaded spirit. This was the old man's tale.
He said: "Right so the king and Merlin departed, and went until an hermit that was a good man and a great leech.
So the hermit searched all his wounds and gave him good salves; so the king was there three days, and then were his wounds well amended that he might ride and go, and so departed.
And as they rode, Arthur said, I have no sword.
With that they saw a damsel going upon the lake.
What damsel is that? said Arthur.
Anon withal came the damsel unto Arthur and saluted him, and he her again.
Damsel, said Arthur, what sword is that, that yonder the arm holdeth above the water?
I would it were mine, for I have no sword.
And the arm and the hand went under the water; and so they came unto the land and rode forth.
And then Sir Arthur saw a rich pavilion.
That is well said, said Arthur, now have I a sword, now will I wage battle with him, and be avenged on him.
So they rode into Carlion, and by the way they met with Sir Pellinore; but Merlin had done such a craft that Pellinore saw not Arthur, and he passed by without any words.
I marvel, said Arthur, that the knight would not speak.
Sir, said Merlin, he saw you not; for and he had seen you ye had not lightly departed.
So they came unto Carlion, whereof his knights were passing glad. And when they heard of his adventures they marveled that he would jeopard his person so alone.
He was so set up that he concluded to make a speech --of course a humorous speech.
I think I never heard so many old played-out jokes strung together in my life.
He was worse than the minstrels, worse than the clown in the circus.
It seemed peculiarly sad to sit here, thirteen hundred years before I was born, and listen again to poor, flat, worm-eaten jokes that had given me the dry gripes when I was a boy thirteen hundred years afterwards.
It about convinced me that there isn't any such thing as a new joke possible.
Everybody laughed at these antiquities --but then they always do; I had noticed that, centuries later. However, of course the scoffer didn't laugh--I mean the boy.
No, he scoffed; there wasn't anything he wouldn't scoff at.
He said the most of Sir Dinadan's jokes were rotten and the rest were petrified.
I said "petrified" was good; as I believed, myself, that the only right way to classify the majestic ages of some of those jokes was by geologic periods.
But that neat idea hit the boy in a blank place, for geology hadn't been invented yet. However, I made a note of the remark, and calculated to educate the commonwealth up to it if I pulled through.
It is no use to throw a good thing away merely because the market isn't ripe yet. Now Sir Kay arose and began to fire up on his history-mill with me for fuel.
It was time for me to feel serious, and I did.
Indelicacy is too mild a term to convey the idea.
Suppose Sir Walter, instead of putting the conversations into the mouths of his characters, had allowed the characters to speak for themselves?
We should have had talk from Rebecca and Ivanhoe and the soft lady Rowena which would embarrass a tramp in our day.
However, to the unconsciously indelicate all things are delicate.
He asked them why they were so dull--why didn't it occur to them to strip me.
In half a minute I was as naked as a pair of tongs!
And dear, dear, to think of it: I was the only embarrassed person there.
Everybody discussed me; and did it as unconcernedly as if I had been a cabbage. Queen Guenever was as naively interested as the rest, and said she had never seen anybody with legs just like mine before.
It was the only compliment I got--if it was a compliment. Finally I was carried off in one direction, and my perilous clothes in another.
My first thought was, "Well, what an astonishing dream I've had!
I reckon I've waked only just in time to keep from being hanged or drowned or burned or something....
I gasped with surprise; my breath almost got away from me. "What!
I said, "you here yet?
Ho-ho--answer me that!" The shock that went through me was distressing.
So I said beseechingly: "Ah, Clarence, good boy, only friend I've got,--for you _are_ my friend, aren't you?--don't fail me; help me to devise some way of escaping from this place!" "Now do but hear thyself!
Why, man, the corridors are in guard and keep of men-at-arms." "No doubt, no doubt.
Not many, I hope?" "Full a score.
One may not hope to escape.
After a pause --hesitatingly: "and there be other reasons--and weightier." "Other ones?
What are they?" "Well, they say--oh, but I daren't, indeed daren't!" "Why, poor lad, what is the matter?
Why do you tremble so?" "Oh, in sooth, there is need!
Now God pity me, I have told it!
That cheap old humbug, that maundering old ass?
Bosh, pure bosh, the silliest bosh in the world!
Any moment these walls may crumble upon us if you say such things.
Oh call them back before it is too late!" Now this strange exhibition gave me a good idea and set me to thinking.
I went on thinking, and worked out a plan.
Then I said: "Get up.
Pull yourself together; look me in the eye.
Do you know why I laughed?" "No--but for our blessed Lady's sake, do it no more." "Well, I'll tell you why I laughed.
Because I'm a magician myself." "Thou!
The boy recoiled a step, and caught his breath, for the thing hit him rather sudden; but the aspect which he took on was very, very respectful.
He has died and come alive again thirteen times, and traveled under a new name every time: Smith, Jones, Robinson, Jackson, Peters, Haskins, Merlin--a new alias every time he turns up.
I knew him in Egypt three hundred years ago; I knew him in India five hundred years ago--he is always blethering around in my way, everywhere I go; he makes me tired.
Now look here, Clarence, I am going to stand your friend, right along, and in return you must be mine.
I want you to do me a favor.
Will you get that to the king for me?" The poor boy was in such a state that he could hardly answer me. It was pitiful to see a creature so terrified, so unnerved, so demoralized.
But he promised everything; and on my side he made me promise over and over again that I would remain his friend, and never turn against him or cast any enchantments upon him.
But finally it occurred to me all of a sudden that these animals didn't reason; that _they_ never put this and that together; that all their talk showed that they didn't know a discrepancy when they saw it.
I was at rest, then. But as soon as one is at rest, in this world, off he goes on something else to worry about.
Suppose I should be asked to name my calamity?
Yes, I had made a blunder; I ought to have invented my calamity first.
What shall I do? what can I say, to gain a little time?
I was in trouble again; in the deepest kind of trouble... "There's a footstep!--they're coming.
If I had only just a moment to think....
I'm all right." You see, it was the eclipse.
It came into my mind in the nick of time, how Columbus, or Cortez, or one of those people, played an eclipse as a saving trump once, on some savages, and I saw my chance.
They disputed long, but in the end, Merlin, scoffing, said, 'Wherefore hath he not _named_ his brave calamity?
Verily it is because he cannot.
Oh, prithee delay not; to delay at such a time were to double and treble the perils that already compass thee about.
Oh, be thou wise--name the calamity!" I allowed silence to accumulate while I got my impressiveness together, and then said: "How long have I been shut up in this hole?" "Ye were shut up when yesterday was well spent.
It is 9 of the morning now." "No!
Then I have slept well, sure enough.
Nine in the morning now!
And yet it is the very complexion of midnight, to a shade. This is the 20th, then?" "The 20th--yes." "And I am to be burned alive to-morrow.
The boy shuddered. "At what hour?" "At high noon." "Now then, I will tell you what to say.
The mere knowledge of a fact is pale; but when you come to _realize_ your fact, it takes on color.
It is all the difference between hearing of a man being stabbed to the heart, and seeing it done.
Hope springs up, and cheerfulness along with it, and then he is in good shape to do something for himself, if anything can be done.
When my rally came, it came with a bound.
I said to myself that my eclipse would be sure to save me, and make me the greatest man in the kingdom besides; and straightway my mercury went up to the top of the tube, and my solicitudes all vanished.
I was as happy a man as there was in the world. I was even impatient for to-morrow to come, I so wanted to gather in that great triumph and be the center of all the nation's wonder and reverence.
Besides, in a business way it would be the making of me; I knew that. Meantime there was one thing which had got pushed into the background of my mind.
That was the half-conviction that when the nature of my proposed calamity should be reported to those superstitious people, it would have such an effect that they would want to compromise.
So, by and by when I heard footsteps coming, that thought was recalled to me, and I said to myself, "As sure as anything, it's the compromise.
Well, if it is good, all right, I will accept; but if it isn't, I mean to stand my ground and play my hand for all it is worth." The door opened, and some men-at-arms appeared.
The leader said: "The stake is ready.
Haste thee!" I was lost.
There was no help for me.
The next second Clarence had slipped from some place of concealment and was pouring news into my ear, his eyes beaming with triumph and gladness.
He said: "'Tis through _me_ the change was wrought!
And main hard have I worked to do it, too.
But when I revealed to them the calamity in store, and saw how mighty was the terror it did engender, then saw I also that this was the time to strike!
Ah how happy has the matter sped!
You will not need to do the sun a _real_ hurt--ah, forget not that, on your soul forget it not!
Only make a little darkness--only the littlest little darkness, mind, and cease with that.
Go to thy triumph, now!
But remember--ah, good friend, I implore thee remember my supplication, and do the blessed sun no hurt.
This hush continued while I was being chained to the stake; it still continued while the fagots were carefully and tediously piled about my ankles, my knees, my thighs, my body.
With a common impulse the multitude rose slowly up and stared into the sky.
I followed their eyes, as sure as guns, there was my eclipse beginning!
The life went boiling through my veins; I was a new man!
The rim of black spread slowly into the sun's disk, my heart beat higher and higher, and still the assemblage and the priest stared into the sky, motionless.
I knew that this gaze would be turned upon me, next.
When it was, I was ready.
I was in one of the most grand attitudes I ever struck, with my arm stretched up pointing to the sun. It was a noble effect.
You could _see_ the shudder sweep the mass like a wave. Two shouts rang out, one close upon the heels of the other: "Apply the torch!" "I forbid it!" The one was from Merlin, the other from the king.
Merlin started from his place--to apply the torch himself, I judged.
I said: "Stay where you are.
If any man moves--even the king--before I give him leave, I will blast him with thunder, I will consume him with lightnings!" The multitude sank meekly into their seats, and I was just expecting they would.
Merlin hesitated a moment or two, and I was on pins and needles during that little while.
Then he sat down, and I took a good breath; for I knew I was master of the situation now. The king said: "Be merciful, fair sir, and essay no further in this perilous matter, lest disaster follow.
It was reported to us that your powers could not attain unto their full strength until the morrow; but--" "Your Majesty thinks the report may have been a lie?
He said: "Name any terms, reverend sir, even to the halving of my kingdom; but banish this calamity, spare the sun!" My fortune was made.
I would have taken him up in a minute, but I couldn't stop an eclipse; the thing was out of the question.
So I asked time to consider.
The king said: "How long--ah, how long, good sir?
Be merciful; look, it groweth darker, moment by moment.
Prithee how long?" "Not long.
Half an hour--maybe an hour." There were a thousand pathetic protests, but I couldn't shorten up any, for I couldn't remember how long a total eclipse lasts.
I was in a puzzled condition, anyway, and wanted to think.
Something was wrong about that eclipse, and the fact was very unsettling. If this wasn't the one I was after, how was I to tell whether this was the sixth century, or nothing but a dream?
Dear me, if I could only prove it was the latter!
Here was a glad new hope.
If the boy was right about the date, and this was surely the 20th, it _wasn't_ the sixth century.
I reached for the monk's sleeve, in considerable excitement, and asked him what day of the month it was. Hang him, he said it was the _twenty-first_!
It made me turn cold to hear him.
I begged him not to make any mistake about it; but he was sure; he knew it was the 21st.
So, that feather-headed boy had botched things again!
The time of the day was right for the eclipse; I had seen that for myself, in the beginning, by the dial that was near by.
Yes, I was in King Arthur's court, and I might as well make the most out of it I could. The darkness was steadily growing, the people becoming more and more distressed.
I now said: "I have reflected, Sir King.
For a lesson, I will let this darkness proceed, and spread night in the world; but whether I blot out the sun for good, or restore it, shall rest with you.
If I can't live on that, I sha'n't ask anybody to give me a lift.
If I might ask that my clothes be brought again--" "They are not meet," the king broke in. "Fetch raiment of another sort; clothe him like a prince!" My idea worked.
I wanted to keep things as they were till the eclipse was total, otherwise they would be trying again to get me to dismiss the darkness, and of course I couldn't do it.
Sending for the clothes gained some delay, but not enough.
So I had to make another excuse.
Neither the king nor anybody else was satisfied with that arrangement, but I had to stick to my point. It grew darker and darker and blacker and blacker, while I struggled with those awkward sixth-century clothes.
It got to be pitch dark, at last, and the multitude groaned with horror to feel the cold uncanny night breezes fan through the place and see the stars come out and twinkle in the sky.
At last the eclipse was total, and I was very glad of it, but everybody else was in misery; which was quite natural.
I said: "The king, by his silence, still stands to the terms.
Then I lifted up my hands--stood just so a moment--then I said, with the most awful solemnity: "Let the enchantment dissolve and pass harmless away!" There was no response, for a moment, in that deep darkness and that graveyard hush.
My raiment was of silks and velvets and cloth of gold, and by consequence was very showy, also uncomfortable.
But habit would soon reconcile me to my clothes; I was aware of that.
I was given the choicest suite of apartments in the castle, after the king's.
I mean _little_ conveniences; it is the little conveniences that make the real comfort of life.
The big oaken chairs, graced with rude carvings, were well enough, but that was the stopping place. There was no soap, no matches, no looking-glass--except a metal one, about as powerful as a pail of water.
We had several of his chromos; one was his "Miraculous Draught of Fishes," where he puts in a miracle of his own--puts three men into a canoe which wouldn't have held a dog without upsetting.
I always admired to study R.'s art, it was so fresh and unconventional. There wasn't even a bell or a speaking-tube in the castle.
A lot of these hung along the walls and modified the dark, just toned it down enough to make it dismal.
If you went out at night, your servants carried torches.
There were no books, pens, paper or ink, and no glass in the openings they believed to be windows. It is a little thing--glass is--until it is absent, then it becomes a big thing.
But perhaps the worst of all was, that there wasn't any sugar, coffee, tea, or tobacco.
Well, that was in my line. One thing troubled me along at first--the immense interest which people took in me.
Apparently the whole nation wanted a look at me.
Of course I was all the talk--all other subjects were dropped; even the king became suddenly a person of minor interest and notoriety.
Within twenty-four hours the delegations began to arrive, and from that time onward for a fortnight they kept coming.
The village was crowded, and all the countryside. I had to go out a dozen times a day and show myself to these reverent and awe-stricken multitudes.
It came to be a great burden, as to time and trouble, but of course it was at the same time compensatingly agreeable to be so celebrated and such a center of homage.
It turned Brer Merlin green with envy and spite, which was a great satisfaction to me.
But there was one thing I couldn't understand--nobody had asked for an autograph.
I spoke to Clarence about it.
I had to explain to him what it was.
Then he said nobody in the country could read or write but a few dozen priests.
Land! think of that. There was another thing that troubled me a little.
Those multitudes presently began to agitate for another miracle.
The pressure got to be pretty strong.
There was going to be an eclipse of the moon, and I knew the date and hour, but it was too far away.
I would have given a good deal for license to hurry it up and use it now when there was a big market for it.
It seemed a great pity to have it wasted so, and come lagging along at a time when a body wouldn't have any use for it, as like as not.
If it had been booked for only a month away, I could have sold it short; but, as matters stood, I couldn't seem to cipher out any way to make it do me any good, so I gave up trying.
Next, Clarence found that old Merlin was making himself busy on the sly among those people.
He was spreading a report that I was a humbug, and that the reason I didn't accommodate the people with a miracle was because I couldn't.
I saw that I must do something.
I presently thought out a plan. By my authority as executive I threw Merlin into prison--the same cell I had occupied myself.
I told him that this was a sort of miracle that required a trifle of preparation, and that it would be sudden death to ever talk about these preparations to anybody.
That made his mouth safe enough.
Clandestinely we made a few bushels of first-rate blasting powder, and I superintended my armorers while they constructed a lightning-rod and some wires.
This old stone tower was very massive--and rather ruinous, too, for it was Roman, and four hundred years old.
Yes, and handsome, after a rude fashion, and clothed with ivy from base to summit, as with a shirt of scale mail.
We put in a peck at a time, in a dozen places.
We could have blown up the Tower of London with these charges.
When the thirteenth night was come we put up our lightning-rod, bedded it in one of the batches of powder, and ran wires from it to the other batches.
I kept secluded, and watched the weather.
Clarence dropped in from time to time and said the public excitement was growing and growing all the time, and the whole country filling up with human masses as far as one could see from the battlements.
At last the wind sprang up and a cloud appeared--in the right quarter, too, and just at nightfall.
For a little while I watched that distant cloud spread and blacken, then I judged it was time for me to appear.
I said: "You wanted to burn me alive when I had not done you any harm, and latterly you have been trying to injure my professional reputation.
Then he began to mutter and make passes in the air with his hands.
He worked himself up slowly and gradually into a sort of frenzy, and got to thrashing around with his arms like the sails of a windmill.
Of course, my rod would be loading itself now.
In fact, things were imminent.
So I said: "You have had time enough.
I have given you every advantage, and not interfered.
It is plain your magic is weak.
Well, it rained mortar and masonry the rest of the week.
This was the report; but probably the facts would have modified it. It was an effective miracle.
The great bothersome temporary population vanished.
There were a good many thousand tracks in the mud the next morning, but they were all outward bound. If I had advertised another miracle I couldn't have raised an audience with a sheriff. Merlin's stock was flat.
The king wanted to stop his wages; he even wanted to banish him, but I interfered.
I said he would be useful to work the weather, and attend to small matters like that, and I would give him a lift now and then when his poor little parlor-magic soured on him.
There wasn't a rag of his tower left, but I had the government rebuild it for him, and advised him to take boarders; but he was too high-toned for that.
And as for being grateful, he never even said thank you.
The tower episode solidified my power, and made it impregnable.
If any were perchance disposed to be jealous and critical before that, they experienced a change of heart, now.
I should be foreman of a factory, that is about all; and could drag a seine down street any day and catch a hundred better men than myself. What a jump I had made!
I couldn't keep from thinking about it, and contemplating it, just as one does who has struck oil.
There was nothing back of me that could approach it, unless it might be Joseph's case; and Joseph's only approached it, it didn't equal it, quite.
My power was colossal; and it was not a mere name, as such things have generally been, it was the genuine article.
I was a Unique; and glad to know that that fact could not be dislodged or challenged for thirteen centuries and a half, for sure.
Yes, in power I was equal to the king.
At the same time there was another power that was a trifle stronger than both of us put together.
That was the Church. I do not wish to disguise that fact.
I couldn't, if I wanted to. But never mind about that, now; it will show up, in its proper place, later on.
It didn't cause me any trouble in the beginning --at least any of consequence. Well, it was a curious country, and full of interest.
They were the quaintest and simplest and trustingest race; why, they were nothing but rabbits.
And for all this, the thanks they got were cuffs and contempt; and so poor-spirited were they that they took even this sort of attention as an honor. Inherited ideas are a curious thing, and interesting to observe and examine.
The way I was looked upon was odd, but it was natural.
You know how the keeper and the public regard the elephant in the menagerie: well, that is the idea.
But does that make him one of _them_?
No; the raggedest tramp in the pit would smile at the idea.
He couldn't comprehend it; couldn't take it in; couldn't in any remote way conceive of it.
Well, to the king, the nobles, and all the nation, down to the very slaves and tramps, I was just that kind of an elephant, and nothing more.
I was admired, also feared; but it was as an animal is admired and feared. The animal is not reverenced, neither was I; I was not even respected.
In two or three little centuries it had converted a nation of men to a nation of worms.
The remnant of it was restricted to the dudes and dudesses.
Such a personage was fawned upon in Arthur's realm and reverently looked up to by everybody, even though his dispositions were as mean as his intelligence, and his morals as base as his lineage.
There were times when _he_ could sit down in the king's presence, but I couldn't.
I could have got a title easily enough, and that would have raised me a large step in everybody's eyes; even in the king's, the giver of it.
But I didn't ask for it; and I declined it when it was offered.
I was never known by any other designation afterward, whether in the nation's talk or in grave debate upon matters of state at the council-board of the sovereign.
This title, translated into modern speech, would be THE BOSS.
That suited me. And it was a pretty high title.
There were very few THE'S, and I was one of them.
If you spoke of the duke, or the earl, or the bishop, how could anybody tell which one you meant?
And he and they liked me, and respected my office; but as an animal, without birth or sham title, they looked down upon me--and were not particularly private about it, either.
They came on horseback from everywhere; from the very ends of the country, and even from beyond the sea; and many brought ladies, and all brought squires and troops of servants.
They had a most noble good time.
You never saw such people.
They ruined an uncommon good old cross-cut saw for me, and broke the saw-buck, too, but I let it pass.
The first thing you want in a new country, is a patent office; then work up your school system; and after that, out with your paper.
A newspaper has its faults, and plenty of them, but no matter, it's hark from the tomb for a dead nation, and don't you forget it.
You can't resurrect a dead nation without it; there isn't any way.
So I wanted to sample things, and be finding out what sort of reporter-material I might be able to rake together out of the sixth century when I should come to need it. Well, the priest did very well, considering.
Here is an extract from it: Then Sir Brian de les Isles and Grummore Grummorsum, knights of the castle, encountered with Sir Aglovale and Sir Tor, and Sir Tor smote down Sir Grummore Grummorsum to the earth.
And Sir Arnold, and Sir Gauter, knights of the castle, encountered with Sir Brandiles and Sir Kay, and these four knights encountered mightily, and brake their spears to their hands.
Then came Sir Pertolope from the castle, and there encountered with him Sir Lionel, and there Sir Pertolope the green knight smote down Sir Lionel, brother to Sir Launcelot.
All this was marked by noble heralds, who bare him best, and their names.
Then Sir Bleobaris brake his spear upon Sir Gareth, but of that stroke Sir Bleobaris fell to the earth.
When Sir Galihodin saw that, he bad Sir Gareth keep him, and Sir Gareth smote him to the earth.
When King Aswisance of Ireland saw Sir Gareth fare so he marvelled what he might be, that one time seemed green, and another time, at his again coming, he seemed blue.
And then came King Carados of Scotland, and Sir Gareth smote him down horse and man.
And in the same wise he served King Uriens of the land of Gore.
And then there came in Sir Bagdemagus, and Sir Gareth smote him down horse and man to the earth.
Truly, said King Arthur, that knight with the many colors is a good knight.
Wherefore the king called unto him Sir Launcelot, and prayed him to encounter with that knight.
You will have noticed that Garry was doing some great fighting in the engagement.
When I say Garry I mean Sir Gareth.
Garry was my private pet name for him; it suggests that I had a deep affection for him, and that was the case.
But it was a private pet name only, and never spoken aloud to any one, much less to him; being a noble, he would not have endured a familiarity like that from me.
That anecdote never saw the day that it was worth the telling; and yet I had sat under the telling of it hundreds and thousands and millions and billions of times, and cried and cursed all the way through.
Just as he finished, the call-boy came; so, haw-hawing like a demon, he went rattling and clanking out like a crate of loose castings, and I knew nothing more.
It was some minutes before I came to, and then I opened my eyes just in time to see Sir Gareth fetch him an awful welt, and I unconsciously out with the prayer, "I hope to gracious he's killed!
I knew that, so I saved my breath, and offered no explanations.
You see, he was going for the Holy Grail.
The boys all took a flier at the Holy Grail now and then.
It was a several years' cruise.
Every year expeditions went out holy grailing, and next year relief expeditions went out to hunt for _them_.
There was worlds of reputation in it, but no money.
Why, they actually wanted _me_ to put in!
Everybody could be any kind of a Christian he wanted to; there was perfect freedom in that matter.
But I confined public religious teaching to the churches and the Sunday-schools, permitting nothing of it in my other educational buildings.
Well, you would never imagine it in the world.
Unlimited power is the ideal thing when it is in safe hands.
The despotism of heaven is the one absolutely perfect government.
An earthly despotism would be the absolutely perfect earthly government, if the conditions were the same, namely, the despot the perfectest individual of the human race, and his lease of life perpetual.
Unsuspected by this dark land, I had the civilization of the nineteenth century booming under its very nose!
It was fenced away from the public view, but there it was, a gigantic and unassailable fact--and to be heard from, yet, if I lived and had luck.
There it was, as sure a fact and as substantial a fact as any serene volcano, standing innocent with its smokeless summit in the blue sky and giving no sign of the rising hell in its bowels.
I stood with my hand on the cock, so to speak, ready to turn it on and flood the midnight world with light at any moment.
But I was not going to do the thing in that sudden way.
It was not my policy. The people could not have stood it; and, moreover, I should have had the Established Roman Catholic Church on my back in a minute. No, I had been going cautiously all the while.
I was turning on my light one-candle-power at a time, and meant to continue to do so. I had scattered some branch schools secretly about the kingdom, and they were doing very well.
Both were prospering to my satisfaction. Clarence was twenty-two now, and was my head executive, my right hand.
He was a darling; he was equal to anything; there wasn't anything he couldn't turn his hand to.
Of late I had been training him for journalism, for the time seemed about right for a start in the newspaper line; nothing big, but just a small weekly for experimental circulation in my civilization-nurseries.
He took to it like a duck; there was an editor concealed in him, sure. Already he had doubled himself in one way; he talked sixth century and wrote nineteenth.
His journalistic style was climbing, steadily; it was already up to the back settlement Alabama mark, and couldn't be told from the editorial output of that region either by matter or flavor. We had another large departure on hand, too.
This was a telegraph and a telephone; our first venture in this line.
These wires were for private service only, as yet, and must be kept private until a riper day should come.
We had a gang of men on the road, working mainly by night.
They were stringing ground wires; we were afraid to put up poles, for they would attract too much inquiry.
I had made changes, but they were necessarily slight, and they were not noticeable.
Thus far, I had not even meddled with taxation, outside of the taxes which provided the royal revenues.
I had systematized those, and put the service on an effective and righteous basis.
Earlier it could have annoyed me, but now everything was in good hands and swimming right along.
The king had reminded me several times, of late, that the postponement I had asked for, four years before, had about run out now.
So you see I was expecting this interruption; it did not take me by surprise. CHAPTER XI THE YANKEE IN SEARCH OF ADVENTURES There never was such a country for wandering liars; and they were of both sexes.
But nobody ever thought of so simple and common-sense a thing at that.
No, everybody swallowed these people's lies whole, and never asked a question of any sort or about anything.
Well, one day when I was not around, one of these people came along--it was a she one, this time--and told a tale of the usual pattern.
Sort of fruit not mentioned; their usual slovenliness in statistics. Would you believe it?
In all lies there is wheat among the chaff; I must get at the wheat in this case: so I sent for the girl and she came.
She was a comely enough creature, and soft and modest, but, if signs went for anything, she didn't know as much as a lady's watch.
I said: "My dear, have you been questioned as to particulars?" She said she hadn't. "Well, I didn't expect you had, but I thought I would ask, to make sure; it's the way I've been raised.
Now you mustn't take it unkindly if I remind you that as we don't know you, we must go a little slow.
You may be all right, of course, and we'll hope that you are; but to take it for granted isn't business. _You_ understand that.
I'm obliged to ask you a few questions; just answer up fair and square, and don't be afraid.
Where do you live, when you are at home?" "In the land of Moder, fair sir." "Land of Moder.
Have I not a tongue, and cannot I say all that myself?" "But _your_ saying it, you know, and somebody else's saying it, is different." "Different?
I fear me I do not understand." "Don't _understand_?
Land of--why, you see--you see--why, great Scott, can't you understand a little thing like that?
Can't you understand the difference between your--_why_ do you look so innocent and idiotic!" "I?
In truth I know not, but an it were the will of God." "Yes, yes, I reckon that's about the size of it.
Don't mind my seeming excited; I'm not.
Let us change the subject.
But come--never mind about that; let's--have you got such a thing as a map of that region about you?
Now a good map--" "Is it peradventure that manner of thing which of late the unbelievers have brought from over the great seas, which, being boiled in oil, and an onion and salt added thereto, doth--" "What, a map?
What are you talking about?
Don't you know what a map is?
There, there, never mind, don't explain, I hate explanations; they fog a thing up so that you can't tell anything about it.
Run along, dear; good-day; show her the way, Clarence." Oh, well, it was reasonably plain, now, why these donkeys didn't prospect these liars for details.
Why, she was a perfect ass; and yet the king and his knights had listened to her as if she had been a leaf out of the gospel.
It kind of sizes up the whole party.
And think of the simple ways of this court: this wandering wench hadn't any more trouble to get access to the king in his palace than she would have had to get into the poorhouse in my day and country.
And how else would I go about it?" "La, sweet your worship, one may lightly answer that, I ween. She will go with thee.
She will ride with thee." "Ride with me?
Nonsense!" "But of a truth she will.
She will ride with thee.
She browse around the hills and scour the woods with me --alone--and I as good as engaged to be married?
Why, it's scandalous. Think how it would look." My, the dear face that rose before me!
The boy was eager to know all about this tender matter.
I swore him to secrecy and then whispered her name--"Puss Flanagan.
He looked disappointed, and said he didn't remember the countess.
How natural it was for the little courtier to give her a rank.
He asked me where she lived. "In East Har--" I came to myself and stopped, a little confused; then I said, "Never mind, now; I'll tell you some time." And might he see her?
Would I let him see her some day? It was but a little thing to promise--thirteen hundred years or so--and he so eager; so I said Yes.
But I sighed; I couldn't help it.
And yet there was no sense in sighing, for she wasn't born yet.
Well, they _were_ good children--but just children, that is all.
It is troublesome to get into, and there is so much detail.
How stately he looked; and tall and broad and grand.
He was going grailing, and it was just the outfit for it, too.
I would have given a good deal for that ulster, but it was too late now to be fooling around.
Everybody was as good to me as they could be, and a maid of honor gave me the stirrup-cup her own self.
And everybody we met, going down the hill and through the village was respectful to us, except some shabby little boys on the outskirts.
They said: "Oh, what a guy!
And hove clods at us. In my experience boys are the same in all ages.
They don't respect anything, they don't care for anything or anybody.
The prophet had his bears and settled with his boys; and I wanted to get down and settle with mine, but it wouldn't answer, because I couldn't have got up again.
I hate a country without a derrick. CHAPTER XII SLOW TORTURE Straight off, we were in the country.
It was most lovely and pleasant in those sylvan solitudes in the early cool morning in the first freshness of autumn.
It was beginning to get hot.
We had a very long pull, after that, without any shade.
Now it is curious how progressively little frets grow and multiply after they once get a start.
Things which I didn't mind at all, at first, I began to mind now--and more and more, too, all the time.
The first ten or fifteen times I wanted my handkerchief I didn't seem to care; I got along, and said never mind, it isn't any matter, and dropped it out of my mind.
You see I had my handkerchief in my helmet; and some other things; but it was that kind of a helmet that you can't take off by yourself.
That hadn't occurred to me when I put it there; and in fact I didn't know it.
I supposed it would be particularly convenient there.
And so now, the thought of its being there, so handy and close by, and yet not get-at-able, made it all the worse and the harder to bear.
It seems like a little thing, on paper, but it was not a little thing at all; it was the most real kind of misery.
I would not say it if it was not so. I made up my mind that I would carry along a reticule next time, let it look how it might, and people say what they would.
Of course these iron dudes of the Round Table would think it was scandalous, and maybe raise Sheol about it, but as for me, give me comfort first, and style afterwards.
Most knights would have thought of nothing but getting his armor; but so I got his bandanna, he could keep his hardware, for all of me. Meantime, it was getting hotter and hotter in there.
You see, the sun was beating down and warming up the iron more and more all the time.
Well, when you are hot, that way, every little thing irritates you.
You are inside, your hands are outside; so there you are; nothing but iron between. It is not a light thing, let it sound as it may.
First it is one place; then another; then some more; and it goes on spreading and spreading, and at last the territory is all occupied, and nobody can imagine what you feel like, nor how unpleasant it is.
So I gave in, and got Alisande to unship the helmet and relieve me of it.
Then she emptied the conveniences out of it and fetched it full of water, and I drank and then stood up, and she poured the rest down inside the armor.
One cannot think how refreshing it was.
She continued to fetch and pour until I was well soaked and thoroughly comfortable. It was good to have a rest--and peace.
But nothing is quite perfect in this life, at any time.
An armed novice cannot mount his horse without help and plenty of it.
Sandy was not enough; not enough for me, anyway.
We had to wait until somebody should come along.
Waiting, in silence, would have been agreeable enough, for I was full of matter for reflection, and wanted to give it a chance to work.
I wanted to think that out; and moreover I wanted to think out some way to reform this evil and persuade the people to let the foolish fashion die out; but thinking was out of the question in the circumstances.
If she had had a cork she would have been a comfort.
But you can't cork that kind; they would die.
Her clack was going all day, and you would think something would surely happen to her works, by and by; but no, they never got out of order; and she never had to slack up for words.
She could grind, and pump, and churn, and buzz by the week, and never stop to oil up or blow out.
And yet the result was just nothing but wind.
She never had any ideas, any more than a fog has.
She was a perfect blatherskite; I mean for jaw, jaw, jaw, talk, talk, talk, jabber, jabber, jabber; but just as good as she could be.
Here was another illustration of the childlike improvidence of this age and people.
A man in armor always trusted to chance for his food on a journey, and would have been scandalized at the idea of hanging a basket of sandwiches on his spear.
There was probably not a knight of all the Round Table combination who would not rather have died than been caught carrying such a thing as that on his flagstaff.
And yet there could not be anything more sensible.
The darkness came on fast. We must camp, of course.
I found a good shelter for the demoiselle under a rock, and went off and found another for myself.
But I was obliged to remain in my armor, because I could not get it off by myself and yet could not allow Alisande to help, because it would have seemed so like undressing before folk.
Still, if one did not roll and thrash around he would die; so perhaps it is as well to do one way as the other; there is no real choice.
Even after I was frozen solid I could still distinguish that tickling, just as a corpse does when he is taking electric treatment.
How have they managed to stand it all these generations?
And how had it fared with the nobly born, the titled aristocrat, the Demoiselle Alisande la Carteloise?
Why, she was as fresh as a squirrel; she had slept like the dead; and as for a bath, probably neither she nor any other noble in the land had ever had one, and so she was not missing it.
Measured by modern standards, they were merely modified savages, those people.
This noble lady showed no impatience to get to breakfast--and that smacks of the savage, too.
On their journeys those Britons were used to long fasts, and knew how to bear them; and also how to freight up against probable fasts before starting, after the style of the Indian and the anaconda.
As like as not, Sandy was loaded for a three-day stretch. We were off before sunrise, Sandy riding and I limping along behind.
In half an hour we came upon a group of ragged poor creatures who had assembled to mend the thing which was regarded as a road.
And yet they were not slaves, not chattels. By a sarcasm of law and phrase they were freemen.
What is swift death by lightning compared with death by slow fire at the stake?
I said I had seen one--and that it would last until it had an Established Church.
Again they were all unhit--at first.
But presently one man looked up and asked me to state that proposition again; and state it slowly, so it could soak into his understanding.
To be loyal to rags, to shout for rags, to worship rags, to die for rags--that is a loyalty of unreason, it is pure animal; it belongs to monarchy, was invented by monarchy; let monarchy keep it.
For the nine hundred and ninety-four to express dissatisfaction with the regnant system and propose to change it, would have made the whole six shudder as one man, it would have been so disloyal, so dishonorable, such putrid black treason.
It seemed to me that what the nine hundred and ninety-four dupes needed was a new deal.
I had never been accustomed to getting left, even if I do say it myself.
Didn't I tell you that no chattel of the Church, no bond-slave of pope or bishop can enter my Man-Factory?
He said: "He is not a priest, and yet can read?" "He is not a priest and yet can read--yes, and write, too, for that matter.
And it is the first thing that you yourself will be taught in that Factory--" "I?
I would give blood out of my heart to know that art. Why, I will be your slave, your--" "No you won't, you won't be anybody's slave.
Take your family and go along.
Your lord the bishop will confiscate your small property, but no matter.
If my start from Camelot could have been delayed a very few days I could have paid these people in beautiful new coins from our own mint, and that would have pleased me; and them, too, not less.
I had adopted the American values exclusively.
When the first blast of smoke shot out through the bars of my helmet, all those people broke for the woods, and Sandy went over backwards and struck the ground with a dull thud.
They thought I was one of those fire-belching dragons they had heard so much about from knights and other professional liars.
I had infinite trouble to persuade those people to venture back within explaining distance.
Then I told them that this was only a bit of enchantment which would work harm to none but my enemies.
And I promised, with my hand on my heart, that if all who felt no enmity toward me would come forward and pass before me they should see that only those who remained behind would be struck dead.
Still the delay was not wholly unproductive, for it took all that time to get Sandy thoroughly wonted to the new thing, she being so close to it, you know.
It plugged up her conversation mill, too, for a considerable while, and that was a gain.
But above all other benefits accruing, I had learned something.
I was ready for any giant or any ogre that might come along, now. We tarried with a holy hermit, that night, and my opportunity came about the middle of the next afternoon.
My pipe was ready and would have been lit, if I had not been lost in thinking about how to banish oppression from this land and restore to all its people their stolen rights and manhood without disobliging anybody.
I lit up at once, and by the time I had got a good head of reserved steam on, here they came.
All together, too; none of those chivalrous magnanimities which one reads so much about --one courtly rascal at a time, and the rest standing by to see fair play.
No, they came in a body, they came with a whirr and a rush, they came like a volley from a battery; came with heads low down, plumes streaming out behind, lances advanced at a level.
It was a handsome sight, a beautiful sight--for a man up a tree.
I laid my lance in rest and waited, with my heart beating, till the iron wave was just ready to break over me, then spouted a column of white smoke through the bars of my helmet.
You should have seen the wave go to pieces and scatter!
This was a finer sight than the other one. But these people stopped, two or three hundred yards away, and this troubled me.
My satisfaction collapsed, and fear came; I judged I was a lost man.
But Sandy was radiant; and was going to be eloquent--but I stopped her, and told her my magic had miscarried, somehow or other, and she must mount, with all despatch, and we must ride for life.
She said that my enchantment had disabled those knights; they were not riding on, because they couldn't; wait, they would drop out of their saddles presently, and we would get their horses and harness.
Sandy laughed, and said: "Lack-a-day, sir, they be not of that breed!
And, la, as to yonder base rufflers, think ye they have not their fill, but yet desire more?" "Well, then, what are they waiting for?
Why don't they leave? Nobody's hindering.
Good land, I'm willing to let bygones be bygones, I'm sure." "Leave, is it?
Oh, give thyself easement as to that.
They dream not of it, no, not they.
They wait to yield them." "Come--really, is that 'sooth'--as you people say?
If they want to, why don't they?" "It would like them much; but an ye wot how dragons are esteemed, ye would not hold them blamable.
They fear to come." "Well, then, suppose I go to them instead, and--" "Ah, wit ye well they would not abide your coming.
I will go." And she did.
She was a handy person to have along on a raid. I would have considered this a doubtful errand, myself.
I presently saw the knights riding away, and Sandy coming back.
I judged she had somehow failed to get the first innings --I mean in the conversation; otherwise the interview wouldn't have been so short.
But it turned out that she had managed the business well; in fact, admirably.
She was a daisy. CHAPTER XV SANDY'S TALE "And so I'm proprietor of some knights," said I, as we rode off. "Who would ever have supposed that I should live to list up assets of that sort.
I shan't know what to do with them; unless I raffle them off.
How many of them are there, Sandy?" "Seven, please you, sir, and their squires." "It is a good haul.
Where do they hang out?" "Where do they hang out?" "Yes, where do they live?" "Ah, I understood thee not.
That will I tell eftsoons.
Then she said musingly, and softly, turning the words daintily over her tongue: "Hang they out--hang they out--where hang--where do they hang out; eh, right so; where do they hang out.
Of a truth the phrase hath a fair and winsome grace, and is prettily worded withal.
I will repeat it anon and anon in mine idlesse, whereby I may peradventure learn it.
Where do they hang out.
Even so! already it falleth trippingly from my tongue, and forasmuch as--" "Don't forget the cowboys, Sandy." "Cowboys?" "Yes; the knights, you know: You were going to tell me about them. A while back, you remember.
Figuratively speaking, game's called." "Game--" "Yes, yes, yes!
I mean, get to work on your statistics, and don't burn so much kindling getting your fire started.
Tell me about the knights." "I will well, and lightly will begin.
So they two departed and rode into a great forest.
And--" "Great Scott!" You see, I recognized my mistake at once.
I had set her works a-going; it was my own fault; she would be thirty days getting down to those facts.
And she generally began without a preface and finished without a result.
If you interrupted her she would either go right along without noticing, or answer with a couple of words, and go back and say the sentence over again.
So, interruptions only did harm; and yet I had to interrupt, and interrupt pretty frequently, too, in order to save my life; a person would die if he let her monotony drip on him right along all day. "Great Scott!
I said in my distress.
She went right back and began over again: "So they two departed and rode into a great forest.
And--" "_Which_ two?" "Sir Gawaine and Sir Uwaine.
And so they came to an abbey of monks, and there were well lodged.
But I've seen it, and I can just see those creatures now, parading before that shield and acting like that. The women here do certainly act like all possessed.
Yes, and I mean your best, too, society's very choicest brands.
Then Sir Gawaine and Sir Uwaine went and saluted them, and asked them why they did that despite to the shield.
Tom Sayers --John Heenan--John L.
Sullivan--pity but you could be here.
Sir, said they, his name is Marhaus the king's son of Ireland." "Son of the king of Ireland, you mean; the other form doesn't mean anything.
And look out and hold on tight, now, we must jump this gully....
There, we are all right now.
This horse belongs in the circus; he is born before his time." "I know him well, said Sir Uwaine, he is a passing good knight as any is on live." "_On live_.
If you've got a fault in the world, Sandy, it is that you are a shade too archaic.
But it isn't any matter." "--for I saw him once proved at a justs where many knights were gathered, and that time there might no man withstand him.
And therewith Sir Uwaine and Sir Gawaine departed a little from them, and then were they ware where Sir Marhaus came riding on a great horse straight toward them.
Ah, said Sir Gawaine, gentle knight, ye say the word that I should say.
It is a mixture that is always ineffectual, and should never have been attempted in the first place.
In this country, said Sir Marhaus, came never knight since it was christened, but he found strange adventures--" "This is not good form, Alisande.
The third damsel was but fifteen year of age--" Billows of thought came rolling over my soul, and the voice faded out of my hearing! Fifteen!
Break--my heart! oh, my lost darling!
Just her age who was so gentle, and lovely, and all the world to me, and whom I shall never see again!
My interest was gone, my thoughts were far away, and sad.
Year and day--and without baggage.
It was of a piece with the general simplicity of the country. The sun was now setting.
It was about three in the afternoon when Alisande had begun to tell me who the cowboys were; so she had made pretty good progress with it--for her.
It was very simple: you discounted a statement ninety-seven per cent; the rest was fact.
Now after making this allowance, the truth remained that if I could find out something about a castle before ringing the door-bell--I mean hailing the warders--it was the sensible thing to do.
In the first place, it was a furtive, underhand blow at this nonsense of knight errantry, though nobody suspected that but me.
This would undermine the Church. I mean would be a step toward that.
Next, education--next, freedom --and then she would begin to crumble.
It being my conviction that any Established Church is an established crime, an established slave-pen, I had no scruples, but was willing to assail it in any way or with any weapon that promised to hurt it.
As a consequence the workers in the field were increasing by degrees, and the reform was steadily spreading. My soap factory felt the strain early.
He had not worked off a cake; yet he had tried all the tricks of the trade, even to the washing of a hermit; but the hermit died.
This was, indeed, a bad failure, for this animal would now be dubbed a martyr, and would take his place among the saints of the Roman calendar.
Thus made he his moan, this poor Sir La Cote Male Taile, and sorrowed passing sore.
And so my heart bled for him, and I was moved to comfort and stay him. Wherefore I said: "Forbear to grieve, fair knight, for this is not a defeat.
We have brains, you and I; and for such as have brains there are no defeats, but only victories.
Observe how we will turn this seeming disaster into an advertisement; an advertisement for our soap; and the biggest one, to draw, that was ever thought of; an advertisement that will transform that Mount Washington defeat into a Matterhorn victory.
We will put on your bulletin-board, '_Patronized by the elect_.
How does that strike you?" "Verily, it is wonderly bethought!" "Well, a body is bound to admit that for just a modest little one-line ad, it's a corker." So the poor colporteur's griefs vanished away.
He was a brave fellow, and had done mighty feats of arms in his time.
I knew his story well, and so I knew how to interpret the compassion that was in his face when he bade me farewell.
But, said I, suppose the victor should decline to accept his spoil?
She said that that wouldn't answer--he must.
He couldn't decline; it wouldn't be regular.
I made a note of that.
I have nothing pleasant to tell about that visit.
But it was not a disappointment, for I knew Mrs. le Fay by reputation, and was not expecting anything pleasant. She was held in awe by the whole realm, for she had made everybody believe she was a great sorceress.
All her ways were wicked, all her instincts devilish.
She was loaded to the eyelids with cold malice.
All her history was black with crime; and among her crimes murder was common.
I was most curious to see her; as curious as I could have been to see Satan.
But Morgan was the main attraction, the conspicuous personality here; she was head chief of this household, that was plain.
She caused us to be seated, and then she began, with all manner of pretty graces and graciousnesses, to ask me questions.
Dear me, it was like a bird or a flute, or something, talking.
I felt persuaded that this woman must have been misrepresented, lied about.
She slipped a dirk into him in as matter-of-course a way as another person would have harpooned a rat! Poor child! he slumped to the floor, twisted his silken limbs in one great straining contortion of pain, and was dead.
Out of the old king was wrung an involuntary "O-h!" of compassion.
The look he got, made him cut it suddenly short and not put any more hyphens in it.
It was plain to me that La Cote Male Taile had failed to see the mistress of the house.
Often, how louder and clearer than any tongue, does dumb circumstantial evidence speak. Morgan le Fay rippled along as musically as ever.
Marvelous woman. And what a glance she had: when it fell in reproof upon those servants, they shrunk and quailed as timid people do when the lightning flashes out of a cloud.
I could have got the habit myself.
That one little compliment was enough.
She clouded up like storm; she called for her guards, and said: "Hale me these varlets to the dungeons." That struck cold on my ears, for her dungeons had a reputation. Nothing occurred to me to say--or do.
But not so with Sandy. As the guard laid a hand upon me, she piped up with the tranquilest confidence, and said: "God's wounds, dost thou covet destruction, thou maniac?
It is The Boss!" Now what a happy idea that was!--and so simple; yet it would never have occurred to me.
I was born modest; not all over, but in spots; and this was one of the spots. The effect upon madame was electrical.
It cleared her countenance and brought back her smiles and all her persuasive graces and blandishments; but nevertheless she was not able to entirely cover up with them the fact that she was in a ghastly fright.
She said: "La, but do list to thine handmaid! as if one gifted with powers like to mine might say the thing which I have said unto one who has vanquished Merlin, and not be jesting.
By mine enchantments I foresaw your coming, and by them I knew you when you entered here.
However, to my relief she was presently interrupted by the call to prayers.
I will say this much for the nobility: that, tyrannical, murderous, rapacious, and morally rotten as they were, they were deeply and enthusiastically religious.
Nothing could divert them from the regular and faithful performance of the pieties enjoined by the Church.
There was to be nothing finer or sweeter in the life of even Benvenuto Cellini, that rough-hewn saint, ten centuries later.
All the nobles of Britain, with their families, attended divine service morning and night daily, in their private chapels, and even the worst of them had family worship five or six times a day besides.
The credit of this belonged entirely to the Church.
Although I was no friend to that Catholic Church, I was obliged to admit this.
At the head of the hall, on a dais, was the table of the king, queen, and their son, Prince Uwaine.
Stretching down the hall from this, was the general table, on the floor.
It was a very fine show.
In a gallery a band with cymbals, horns, harps, and other horrors, opened the proceedings with what seemed to be the crude first-draft or original agony of the wail known to later centuries as "In the Sweet Bye and Bye.
It was new, and ought to have been rehearsed a little more.
For some reason or other the queen had the composer hanged, after dinner. After this music, the priest who stood behind the royal table said a noble long grace in ostensible Latin.
Then the battalion of waiters broke away from their posts, and darted, rushed, flew, fetched and carried, and the mighty feeding began; no words anywhere, but absorbing attention to business.
The rows of chops opened and shut in vast unison, and the sound of it was like to the muffled burr of subterranean machinery. The havoc continued an hour and a half, and unimaginable was the destruction of substantials.
To the stake with her!" The guards left their posts to obey.
It was a shame; it was a cruel thing to see.
Sandy gave me a look; I knew she had another inspiration.
I said: "Do what you choose." She was up and facing toward the queen in a moment.
She indicated me, and said: "Madame, _he_ saith this may not be.
Recall the commandment, or he will dissolve the castle and it shall vanish away like the instable fabric of a dream!" Confound it, what a crazy contract to pledge a person to!
What if the queen-- But my consternation subsided there, and my panic passed off; for the queen, all in a collapse, made no show of resistance but gave a countermanding sign and sunk into her seat.
When she reached it she was sober.
So were many of the others.
Well, well, well, they _were_ a superstitious lot.
It is all a body can do to conceive of it. The poor queen was so scared and humbled that she was even afraid to hang the composer without first consulting me.
I was very sorry for her--indeed, any one would have been, for she was really suffering; so I was willing to do anything that was reasonable, and had no desire to carry things to wanton extremities.
I therefore considered the matter thoughtfully, and ended by having the musicians ordered into our presence to play that Sweet Bye and Bye again, which they did.
Then I saw that she was right, and gave her permission to hang the whole band.
This little relaxation of sternness had a good effect upon the queen.
A statesman gains little by the arbitrary exercise of iron-clad authority upon all occasions that offer, for this wounds the just pride of his subordinates, and thus tends to undermine his strength.
I mean it set her music going--her silver bell of a tongue.
Dear me, she was a master talker.
It would not become me to suggest that it was pretty late and that I was a tired man and very sleepy.
I wished I had gone off to bed when I had the chance.
Now I must stick it out; there was no other way.
The sound bored its way up through the stillness again. "What is it?
I said. "It is truly a stubborn soul, and endureth long.
It is many hours now." "Endureth what?" "The rack.
Come--ye shall see a blithe sight.
An he yield not his secret now, ye shall see him torn asunder." What a silky smooth hellion she was; and so composed and serene, when the cords all down my legs were hurting in sympathy with that man's pain.
He had been accused by an anonymous informer, of having killed a stag in the royal preserves.
Isn't it just possible that he did the killing himself?
His loyal zeal--in a mask--looks just a shade suspicious.
But what is your highness's idea for racking the prisoner?
Where is the profit?" "He will not confess, else; and then were his soul lost.
For his crime his life is forfeited by the law--and of a surety will I see that he payeth it!--but it were peril to my own soul to let him die unconfessed and unabsolved.
Nay, I were a fool to fling me into hell for _his_ accommodation." "But, your Highness, suppose he has nothing to confess?" "As to that, we shall see, anon.
An I rack him to death and he confess not, it will peradventure show that he had indeed naught to confess--ye will grant that that is sooth?
Then shall I not be damned for an unconfessed man that had naught to confess --wherefore, I shall be safe." It was the stubborn unreasoning of the time.
It was useless to argue with her.
Arguments have no chance against petrified training; they wear it as little as the waves wear a cliff.
And her training was everybody's.
The brightest intellect in the land would not have been able to see that her position was defective. As we entered the rack-cell I caught a picture that will not go from me; I wish it would.
A native young giant of thirty or thereabouts lay stretched upon the frame on his back, with his wrists and ankles tied to ropes which led over windlasses at either end.
There was no color in him; his features were contorted and set, and sweat-drops stood upon his forehead.
She saw she had to yield.
I asked her to indorse me to these people, and then leave me.
It was not pleasant for her, but she took the pill; and even went further than I was meaning to require.
I only wanted the backing of her own authority; but she said: "Ye will do in all things as this lord shall command.
It is The Boss." It was certainly a good word to conjure with: you could see it by the squirming of these rats.
The queen's guards fell into line, and she and they marched away, with their torch-bearers, and woke the echoes of the cavernous tunnels with the measured beat of their retreating footfalls.
I had the prisoner taken from the rack and placed upon his bed, and medicaments applied to his hurts, and wine given him to drink.
The woman crept near and looked on, eagerly, lovingly, but timorously,--like one who fears a repulse; indeed, she tried furtively to touch the man's forehead, and jumped back, the picture of fright, when I turned unconsciously toward her.
It was pitiful to see. "Lord," I said, "stroke him, lass, if you want to.
Do anything you're a mind to; don't mind me." Why, her eyes were as grateful as an animal's, when you do it a kindness that it understands.
The baby was out of her way and she had her cheek against the man's in a minute and her hands fondling his hair, and her happy tears running down.
The man revived and caressed his wife with his eyes, which was all he could do.
I judged I might clear the den, now, and I did; cleared it of all but the family and myself.
Then I said: "Now, my friend, tell me your side of this matter; I know the other side." The man moved his head in sign of refusal.
But the woman looked pleased--as it seemed to me--pleased with my suggestion.
I went on-- "You know of me?" "Yes.
All do, in Arthur's realms." "If my reputation has come to you right and straight, you should not be afraid to speak." The woman broke in, eagerly: "Ah, fair my lord, do thou persuade him!
Thou canst an thou wilt. Ah, he suffereth so; and it is for me--for _me_!
And how can I bear it? I would I might see him die--a sweet, swift death; oh, my Hugo, I cannot bear this one!" And she fell to sobbing and grovelling about my feet, and still imploring.
I could not quite get the bearings of the thing.
But Hugo interrupted her and said: "Peace!
Ye wit not what ye ask.
Shall I starve whom I love, to win a gentle death?
I wend thou knewest me better." "Well," I said, "I can't quite make this out.
Now--" "Ah, dear my lord, an ye will but persuade him!
Consider how these his tortures wound me!
Oh, and he will not speak!--whereas, the healing, the solace that lie in a blessed swift death--" "What _are_ you maundering about?
Why didn't you before?" "Who doubted?
Not I, indeed; and not she." "Well, why wouldn't you tell me your story, then?" "Ye had made no promise; else had it been otherwise." "I see, I see....
And yet I believe I don't quite see, after all. You stood the torture and refused to confess; which shows plain enough to even the dullest understanding that you had nothing to confess--" "I, my lord?
It was I that killed the deer!" "You _did_?
Oh, dear, this is the most mixed-up business that ever--" "Dear lord, I begged him on my knees to confess, but--" "You _did_!
It gets thicker and thicker.
What did you want him to do that for?" "Sith it would bring him a quick death and save him all this cruel pain." "Well--yes, there is reason in that.
But _he_ didn't want the quick death." "He?
Why, of a surety he _did_." "Well, then, why in the world _didn't_ he confess?" "Ah, sweet sir, and leave my wife and chick without bread and shelter?" "Oh, heart of gold, now I see it!
The bitter law takes the convicted man's estate and beggars his widow and his orphans.
They could torture you to death, but without conviction or confession they could not rob your wife and baby.
The priests told me about this, and were generously hot to have him punished.
Something of this disagreeable sort was turning up every now and then.
But I did not like it, for it was just the sort of thing to keep people reconciled to an Established Church.
We _must_ have a religion --it goes without saying--but my idea is, to have it cut up into forty free sects, so that they will police each other, as had been the case in the United States in my time.
The man must be punished somehow or other, so I degraded him from his office and made him leader of the band--the new one that was to be started.
The deer was ravaging the man's fields, and he had killed it in sudden passion, and not for gain; and he had carried it into the royal forest in the hope that that might make detection of the misdoer impossible.
Confound her, I couldn't make her see that sudden passion is an extenuating circumstance in the killing of venison--or of a person--so I gave it up and let her sulk it out.
I _did_ think I was going to make her see it by remarking that her own sudden passion in the case of the page modified that crime. "Crime!" she exclaimed.
Crime, forsooth! Man, I am going to _pay_ for him!" Oh, it was no use to waste sense on her.
Training--training is everything; training is all there is _to_ a person.
She deserved a compliment for one thing; and I tried to pay it, but the words stuck in my throat.
She had a right to kill the boy, but she was in no wise obliged to pay for him.
That was law for some other people, but not for her.
She knew quite well that she was doing a large and generous thing to pay for that lad, and that I ought in common fairness to come out with something handsome about it, but I couldn't--my mouth refused.
I couldn't help seeing, in my fancy, that poor old grandma with the broken heart, and that fair young creature lying butchered, his little silken pomps and vanities laced with his golden blood.
How could she _pay_ for him! _Whom_ could she pay?
And so, well knowing that this woman, trained as she had been, deserved praise, even adulation, I was yet not able to utter it, trained as I had been.
A master might kill his slave for nothing--for mere spite, malice, or to pass the time--just as we have seen that the crowned head could do it with _his_ slave, that is to say, anybody.
If they killed, it was murder, and the law wouldn't stand murder.
It made short work of the experimenter--and of his family, too, if he murdered somebody who belonged up among the ornamental ranks.
Still, this is only my opinion, and I am only one man; others, with less experience, may think differently.
They have a right to their view.
I only stand to this: I have noticed my conscience for many years, and I know it is more trouble and bother to me than anything else I started with.
And yet when you come to think, there is no real difference between a conscience and an anvil--I mean for comfort.
I have noticed it a thousand times.
Well, it bothered me all the morning.
He was nothing, this so-called king: the queen was the only power there. And she was a Vesuvius.
As a favor, she might consent to warm a flock of sparrows for you, but then she might take that very opportunity to turn herself loose and bury a city.
She resisted; but I was expecting that.
I was expecting that, too, but not so soon.
That about ended my discomfort.
She called her guards and torches, and we went down into the dungeons.
These were down under the castle's foundations, and mainly were small cells hollowed out of the living rock.
Some of these cells had no light at all.
This poor rack of bones was a woman of middle age, apparently; but only apparently; she had been there nine years, and was eighteen when she entered.
Is she alive?" But they had never got an answer; and at last that question was not asked any more--or any other. I wanted to see the man, after hearing all this.
He was thirty-four years old, and looked sixty.
He sat upon a squared block of stone, with his head bent down, his forearms resting on his knees, his long hair hanging like a fringe before his face, and he was muttering to himself.
He raised his chin and looked us slowly over, in a listless dull way, blinking with the distress of the torchlight, then dropped his head and fell to muttering again and took no further notice of us.
There were some pathetically suggestive dumb witnesses present.
On his wrists and ankles were cicatrices, old smooth scars, and fastened to the stone on which he sat was a chain with manacles and fetters attached; but this apparatus lay idle on the ground, and was thick with rust.
The sight of her would set his stagnant blood leaping; the sight of her-- But it was a disappointment.
The queen did not like it much.
Not that she felt any personal interest in the matter, but she thought it disrespectful to Sir Breuse Sance Pite.
However, I assured her that if he found he couldn't stand it I would fix him so that he could. I set forty-seven prisoners loose out of those awful rat-holes, and left only one in captivity.
He was a lord, and had killed another lord, a sort of kinsman of the queen.
That other lord had ambushed him to assassinate him, but this fellow had got the best of him and cut his throat.
However, it was not for that that I left him jailed, but for maliciously destroying the only public well in one of his wretched villages.
The queen was bound to hang him for killing her kinsman, but I would not allow it: it was no crime to kill an assassin.
Indeed, some were there for no distinct offense at all, but only to gratify somebody's spite; and not always the queen's by any means, but a friend's.
The newest prisoner's crime was a mere remark which he had made.
He said he believed that men were about all alike, and one man as good as another, barring clothes.
He said he believed that if you were to strip the nation naked and send a stranger through the crowd, he couldn't tell the king from a quack doctor, nor a duke from a hotel clerk.
Apparently here was a man whose brains had not been reduced to an ineffectual mush by idiotic training.
The case of one of these poor fellows was particularly hard.
He could see the lights shine there at night, and in the daytime he could see figures go in and come out--his wife and children, some of them, no doubt, though he could not make out at that distance.
In the course of years he noted festivities there, and tried to rejoice, and wondered if they were weddings or what they might be.
And he noted funerals; and they wrung his heart.
He could make out the coffin, but he could not determine its size, and so could not tell whether it was wife or child.
He could see the procession form, with priests and mourners, and move solemnly away, bearing the secret with them.
He had left behind him five children and a wife; and in nineteen years he had seen five funerals issue, and none of them humble enough in pomp to denote a servant.
So he had lost five of his treasures; there must still be one remaining--one now infinitely, unspeakably precious,--but _which_ one? wife, or child? That was the question that tortured him, by night and by day, asleep and awake.
Well, to have an interest, of some sort, and half a ray of light, when you are in a dungeon, is a great support to the body and preserver of the intellect.
This man was in pretty good condition yet.
Morgan le Fay hated him with her whole heart, and she never would have softened toward him. And yet his crime was committed more in thoughtlessness than deliberate depravity.
He had said she had red hair.
Well, she had; but that was no way to speak of it.
When red-headed people are above a certain social grade their hair is auburn. Consider it: among these forty-seven captives there were five whose names, offenses, and dates of incarceration were no longer known!
One woman and four men--all bent, and wrinkled, and mind-extinguished patriarchs.
They themselves had long ago forgotten these details; at any rate they had mere vague theories about them, nothing definite and nothing that they repeated twice in the same way.
These traditions went but little way, for they concerned the length of the incarceration only, and not the names of the offenses.
And even by the help of tradition the only thing that could be proven was that none of the five had seen daylight for thirty-five years: how much longer this privation has lasted was not guessable.
The king and the queen knew nothing about these poor creatures, except that they were heirlooms, assets inherited, along with the throne, from the former firm.
Nothing of their history had been transmitted with their persons, and so the inheriting owners had considered them of no value, and had felt no interest in them.
I said to the queen: "Then why in the world didn't you set them free?" The question was a puzzler.
She didn't know _why_ she hadn't, the thing had never come up in her mind.
So here she was, forecasting the veritable history of future prisoners of the Castle d'If, without knowing it.
It seemed plain to me now, that with her training, those inherited prisoners were merely property--nothing more, nothing less.
Skeletons, scarecrows, goblins, pathetic frights, every one; legitimatest possible children of Monarchy by the Grace of God and the Established Church.
I muttered absently: "I _wish_ I could photograph them!" You have seen that kind of people who will never let on that they don't know the meaning of a new big word.
The more ignorant they are, the more pitifully certain they are to pretend you haven't shot over their heads.
The queen was just one of that sort, and was always making the stupidest blunders by reason of it.
When I looked around, she was moving on the procession with an axe! Well, she certainly was a curious one, was Morgan le Fay.
I have seen a good many kinds of women in my time, but she laid over them all for variety.
And how sharply characteristic of her this episode was.
And on the morn the duke sent unto Sir Marhaus, and bad him make him ready.
And so Sir Marhaus arose and armed him, and there was a mass sung afore him, and he brake his fast, and so mounted on horseback in the court of the castle, there they should do the battle.
Then came the four sons by couples, and two of them brake their spears, and so did the other two.
And all this while Sir Marhaus touched them not.
Then Sir Marhaus ran to the duke, and smote him with his spear that horse and man fell to the earth. And so he served his sons.
And then Sir Marhaus alight down, and bad the duke yield him or else he would slay him.
And then some of his sons recovered, and would have set upon Sir Marhaus.
Then Sir Marhaus said to the duke, Cease thy sons, or else I will do the uttermost to you all.
When the duke saw he might not escape the death, he cried to his sons, and charged them to yield them to Sir Marhaus.
And they kneeled all down and put the pommels of their swords to the knight, and so he received them.
Not that I would ever engage in it as a business, for I wouldn't.
No sound and legitimate business can be established on a basis of speculation.
A successful whirl in the knight-errantry line--now what is it when you blow away the nonsense and come down to the cold facts?
Just a rubbish-pile of battered corpses and a barrel or two of busted hardware.
Can you call _those_ assets?
Give me pork, every time.
Your head's all right, as far as it goes, but you don't know business; that's where the trouble is.
It unfits you to argue about business, and you're wrong to be always trying.
However, that aside, it was a good haul, anyway, and will breed a handsome crop of reputation in Arthur's court.
And speaking of the cowboys, what a curious country this is for women and men that never get old.
As I understand it, Sir Gawaine killed seven of his sons, and still he had six left for Sir Marhaus and me to take into camp.
And then there was that damsel of sixty winter of age still excursioning around in her frosty bloom--How old are you, Sandy?" It was the first time I ever struck a still place in her.
It was Sir Madok de la Montaine, a burly great fellow whose chief distinction was that he had come within an ace of sending Sir Launcelot down over his horse-tail once.
He was never long in a stranger's presence without finding some pretext or other to let out that great fact.
This innocent vast lubber did not see any particular difference between the two facts.
I liked him, for he was earnest in his work, and very valuable.
This was a tooth-wash that I was introducing. He was aweary, he said, and indeed he looked it; but he would not alight.
He said he was after the stove-polish man; and with this he broke out cursing and swearing anew.
The bulletin-boarder referred to was Sir Ossaise of Surluse, a brave knight, and of considerable celebrity on account of his having tried conclusions in a tournament once, with no less a Mogul than Sir Gaheris himself--although not successfully.
He was of a light and laughing disposition, and to him nothing in this world was serious.
It was for this reason that I had chosen him to work up a stove-polish sentiment.
There were no stoves yet, and so there could be nothing serious about stove-polish.
And behold, it was the five patriarchs that had been released from the dungeons the evening before!
It seemed incredible that a man could outlast half a century shut up in a dark hole like a rat, but here were his old wife and some old comrades to testify to it.
They could remember him as he was in the freshness and strength of his young manhood, when he kissed his child and delivered it to its mother's hands and went away into that long oblivion.
To wit, that this dreadful matter brought from these downtrodden people no outburst of rage against these oppressors.
They had been heritors and subjects of cruelty and outrage so long that nothing could have startled them but a kindness.
Yes, here was a curious revelation, indeed, of the depth to which this people had been sunk in slavery.
Their entire being was reduced to a monotonous dead level of patience, resignation, dumb uncomplaining acceptance of whatever might befall them in this life.
Their very imagination was dead.
When you can say that of a man, he has struck bottom, I reckon; there is no lower deep for him. I rather wished I had gone some other road.
This was not the sort of experience for a statesman to encounter who was planning out a peaceful revolution in his mind.
If history teaches anything, it teaches that.
What this folk needed, then, was a Reign of Terror and a guillotine, and I was the wrong man for them. Two days later, toward noon, Sandy began to show signs of excitement and feverish expectancy.
She said we were approaching the ogre's castle.
I was surprised into an uncomfortable shock.
The object of our quest had gradually dropped out of my mind; this sudden resurrection of it made it seem quite a real and startling thing for a moment, and roused up in me a smart interest.
Sandy's excitement increased every moment; and so did mine, for that sort of thing is catching.
My heart got to thumping.
You can't reason with your heart; it has its own laws, and thumps about things which the intellect scorns.
Presently, when Sandy slid from the horse, motioned me to stop, and went creeping stealthily, with her head bent nearly to her knees, toward a row of bushes that bordered a declivity, the thumpings grew stronger and quicker.
And they kept it up while she was gaining her ambush and getting her glimpse over the declivity; and also while I was creeping to her side on my knees.
Her eyes were burning now, as she pointed with her finger, and said in a panting whisper: "The castle!
Lo, where it looms!" What a welcome disappointment I experienced!
It is nothing but a pigsty; a pigsty with a wattled fence around it." She looked surprised and distressed.
The animation faded out of her face; and during many moments she was lost in thought and silent.
Then: "It was not enchanted aforetime," she said in a musing fashion, as if to herself.
And God shield us, how it pricks the heart to see again these gracious captives, and the sorrow deepened in their sweet faces!
We have tarried along, and are to blame." I saw my cue.
The castle was enchanted to _me_, not to her.
It would be wasted time to try to argue her out of her delusion, it couldn't be done; I must just humor it.
So I said: "This is a common case--the enchanting of a thing to one eye and leaving it in its proper form to another.
You have heard of it before, Sandy, though you haven't happened to experience it. But no harm is done.
In fact, it is lucky the way it is.
Are those three yonder that to my disordered eyes are starveling swine-herds--" "The ogres, Are _they_ changed also?
Now am I fearful; for how canst thou strike with sure aim when five of their nine cubits of stature are to thee invisible?
Ah, go warily, fair sir; this is a mightier emprise than I wend." "You be easy, Sandy.
All I need to know is, how _much_ of an ogre is invisible; then I know how to locate his vitals.
Don't you be afraid, I will make short work of these bunco-steerers.
Stay where you are." I left Sandy kneeling there, corpse-faced but plucky and hopeful, and rode down to the pigsty, and struck up a trade with the swine-herds.
I won their gratitude by buying out all the hogs at the lump sum of sixteen pennies, which was rather above latest quotations.
But now the tax people could be paid in cash, and there would be a stake left besides.
They would stay in no road, no path; they broke out through the brush on all sides, and flowed away in all directions, over rocks, and hills, and the roughest places they could find.
And they must not be struck, or roughly accosted; Sandy could not bear to see them treated in ways unbecoming their rank.
The troublesomest old sow of the lot had to be called my Lady, and your Highness, like the rest.
It is annoying and difficult to scour around after hogs, in armor.
There was one small countess, with an iron ring in her snout and hardly any hair on her back, that was the devil for perversity.
Nor ever heard anything like it.
And never smelt anything like it.
The ripping and tearing and squealing of the nobility up and down the halls and corridors was pandemonium come again, and kept me broad awake.
Being awake, my thoughts were busy, of course; and mainly they busied themselves with Sandy's curious delusion.
Here she was, as sane a person as the kingdom could produce; and yet, from my point of view she was acting like a crazy woman.
My land, the power of training! of influence! of education!
It can bring a body up to believe anything.
I had to put myself in Sandy's place to realize that she was not a lunatic.
Yes, and put her in mine, to demonstrate how easy it is to seem a lunatic to a person who has not been taught as you have been taught.
Yes, Sandy was sane; that must be admitted.
If I also would be sane--to Sandy --I must keep my superstitions about unenchanted and unmiraculous locomotives, balloons, and telephones, to myself.
Sandy and I had our breakfast at the second table.
The family were not at home.
I said: "How many are in the family, Sandy, and where do they keep themselves?" "Family?" "Yes." "Which family, good my lord?" "Why, this family; your own family." "Sooth to say, I understand you not.
I have no family." "No family?
Why, Sandy, isn't this your home?" "Now how indeed might that be?
I have no home." "Well, then, whose house is this?" "Ah, wit you well I would tell you an I knew myself." "Come--you don't even know these people?
Then who invited us here?" "None invited us.
We but came; that is all." "Why, woman, this is a most extraordinary performance.
The effrontery of it is beyond admiration.
We blandly march into a man's house, and cram it full of the only really valuable nobility the sun has yet discovered in the earth, and then it turns out that we don't even know the man's name.
How did you ever venture to take this extravagant liberty?
I supposed, of course, it was your home.
What will the man say?" "What will he say?
It might become more so. It might be a good idea to muster the hogs and move on.
So I said: "The day is wasting, Sandy.
It is time to get the nobility together and be moving." "Wherefore, fair sir and Boss?" "We want to take them to their home, don't we?" "La, but list to him!
Don't you see, we could distribute these people around the earth in less time than it is going to take you to explain that we can't.
We mustn't talk now, we must act.
You want to be careful; you mustn't let your mill get the start of you that way, at a time like this. To business now--and sharp's the word.
Who is to take the aristocracy home?" "Even their friends.
These will come for them from the far parts of the earth." This was lightning from a clear sky, for unexpectedness; and the relief of it was like pardon to a prisoner.
You will go with me?
Why should you?" "Will I be traitor to my knight, dost think?
I may as well make the best of it.
So then I spoke up and said: "All right; let us make a start." While she was gone to cry her farewells over the pork, I gave that whole peerage away to the servants.
A departure from custom--that settled it; it was a nation capable of committing any crime but that.
What they regarded as the merry tale went the continual round and caused no more embarrassment than it would have caused in the best English society twelve centuries later.
Is it a celebrated place?" "Oh, of a truth, yes.
There be none more so.
Of old time there lived there an abbot and his monks.
Right so came they to be known of all the world by reason of these holy austerities, and visited by rich and poor, and reverenced." "Proceed." "But always there was lack of water there.
Whereas, upon a time, the holy abbot prayed, and for answer a great stream of clear water burst forth by miracle in a desert place.
Prayers, tears, torturings of the flesh, all was vain to beguile that water to flow again.
Go on, Sandy." "And so upon a time, after year and day, the good abbot made humble surrender and destroyed the bath.
The fame of the miracle went abroad into all lands.
A hermit thriveth best where there be multitudes of pilgrims.
Ye shall not find no hermit of no sort wanting.
Yet both were here, both age and youth; gray old men and women, strong men and women of middle age, young husbands, young wives, little boys and girls, and three babies at the breast.
They were on foot, and had tramped three hundred miles in eighteen days, upon the cheapest odds and ends of food, and stingy rations of that.
They had slept in these chains every night, bundled together like swine.
They had upon their bodies some poor rags, but they could not be said to be clothed.
Their irons had chafed the skin from their ankles and made sores which were ulcerated and wormy.
Their naked feet were torn, and none walked without a limp.
Originally there had been a hundred of these unfortunates, but about half had been sold on the trip.
The trader in charge of them rode a horse and carried a whip with a short handle and a long heavy lash divided into several knotted tails at the end.
With this whip he cut the shoulders of any that tottered from weariness and pain, and straightened them up.
He did not speak; the whip conveyed his desire without that.
The file moved in a cloud of its own making. All these faces were gray with a coating of dust.
One has seen the like of this coating upon furniture in unoccupied houses, and has written his idle thought in it with his finger.
It stung me as if I had been hit instead.
The master halted the file and jumped from his horse.
One of the men who was holding her turned away his face, and for this humanity he was reviled and flogged. All our pilgrims looked on and commented--on the expert way in which the whip was handled.
They were too much hardened by lifelong everyday familiarity with slavery to notice that there was anything else in the exhibition that invited comment.
I must not interfere too much and get myself a name for riding over the country's laws and the citizen's rights roughshod.
They were removed; then there was a squabble between the gentleman and the dealer as to which should pay the blacksmith.
The moment the girl was delivered from her irons, she flung herself, all tears and frantic sobbings, into the arms of the slave who had turned away his face when she was whipped.
He strained her to his breast, and smothered her face and the child's with kisses, and washed them with the rain of his tears.
Yes, I was right; it was husband and wife.
He was in the gentlemen's furnishing line, and his missionarying specialty was plug hats.
It was another of my surreptitious schemes for extinguishing knighthood by making it grotesque and absurd.
Sir Ozana's saddle was hung about with leather hat boxes, and every time he overcame a wandering knight he swore him into my service and fitted him with a plug and made him wear it.
I dressed and ran down to welcome Sir Ozana and get his news. "How is trade?
I asked. "Ye will note that I have but these four left; yet were they sixteen whenas I got me from Camelot." "Why, you have certainly done nobly, Sir Ozana.
Where have you been foraging of late?" "I am but now come from the Valley of Holiness, please you sir." "I am pointed for that place myself.
Is there anything stirring in the monkery, more than common?" "By the mass ye may not question it!....
Give him good feed, boy, and stint it not, an thou valuest thy crown; so get ye lightly to the stable and do even as I bid....
Sir, it is parlous news I bring, and--be these pilgrims?
This shout burst from twenty pilgrim mouths at once. "Ye say well, good people.
I was verging to it, even when ye spake." "Has somebody been washing again?" "Nay, it is suspected, but none believe it.
It is thought to be some other sin, but none wit what." "How are they feeling about the calamity?" "None may describe it in words.
As soon as it was over I showed to Sir Ozana these words which I had written on the inside of his hat: "Chemical Department, Laboratory extension, Section G.
Send two of first size, two of No. 3, and six of No. 4, together with the proper complementary details--and two of my trained assistants.
Otherwise they would have acted differently.
That is, its large features.
These were the three masses of buildings.
They were distant and isolated temporalities shrunken to toy constructions in the lonely waste of what seemed a desert--and was.
Such a scene is always mournful, it is so impressively still, and looks so steeped in death.
The bells were close at hand now, and their solemn booming smote upon the ear like a message of doom.
A superstitious despair possessed the heart of every monk and published itself in his ghastly face.
Everywhere, these black-robed, soft-sandaled, tallow-visaged specters appeared, flitted about and disappeared, noiseless as the creatures of a troubled dream, and as uncanny. The old abbot's joy to see me was pathetic.
Even to tears; but he did the shedding himself.
He said: "Delay not, son, but get to thy saving work.
An we bring not the water back again, and soon, we are ruined, and the good work of two hundred years must end.
I shall use no arts that come of the devil, and no elements not created by the hand of God.
Two of a trade must not underbid each other.
We might as well cut rates and be done with it; it would arrive at that in the end.
Merlin has the contract; no other magician can touch it till he throws it up." "But I will take it from him; it is a terrible emergency and the act is thereby justified.
And if it were not so, who will give law to the Church?
The Church giveth law to all; and what she wills to do, that she may do, hurt whom it may.
I will take it from him; you shall begin upon the moment." "It may not be, Father.
No doubt, as you say, where power is supreme, one can do as one likes and suffer no injury; but we poor magicians are not so situated.
Merlin is a very good magician in a small way, and has quite a neat provincial reputation.
He is struggling along, doing the best he can, and it would not be etiquette for me to take his job until he himself abandons it." The abbot's face lighted. "Ah, that is simple.
There are ways to persuade him to abandon it." "No-no, Father, it skills not, as these people say.
If he were persuaded against his will, he would load that well with a malicious enchantment which would balk me until I found out its secret. It might take a month.
I could set up a little enchantment of mine which I call the telephone, and he could not find out its secret in a hundred years.
Yes, you perceive, he might block me for a month.
Would you like to risk a month in a dry time like this?" "A month!
The mere thought of it maketh me to shudder.
Have it thy way, my son.
As soon as their stomachs had been properly reinforced with food, their spirits began to rise fast; when the mead began to go round they rose faster.
By the time everybody was half-seas over, the holy community was in good shape to make a night of it; so we stayed by the board and put it through on that line.
Matters got to be very jolly.
Merlin was there, enchanting away like a beaver, but not raising the moisture.
The "fountain" was an ordinary well, it had been dug in the ordinary way, and stoned up in the ordinary way.
There was no miracle about it.
Even the lie that had created its reputation was not miraculous; I could have told it myself, with one hand tied behind me.
That is, nobody but angels; they are always on deck when there is a miracle to the fore--so as to get put in the picture, perhaps.
I entered it, for I had temporary authority to do so, by courtesy of my professional brother and subordinate. But he hadn't entered it himself.
He did everything by incantations; he never worked his intellect.
I measured the chain--98 feet.
Then I called in a couple of monks, locked the door, took a candle, and made them lower me in the bucket.
I remembered that in America, many centuries later, when an oil well ceased to flow, they used to blast it out with a dynamite torpedo.
If I should find this well dry and no explanation of it, I could astonish these people most nobly by having a person of no especial value drop a dynamite bomb into it.
It was my idea to appoint Merlin.
However, it was plain that there was no occasion for the bomb.
One cannot have everything the way he would like it.
A man has no business to be depressed by a disappointment, anyway; he ought to make up his mind to get even.
That is what I did.
I said to myself, I am in no hurry, I can wait; that bomb will come good yet.
And it did, too. When I was above ground again, I turned out the monks, and let down a fish-line; the well was a hundred and fifty feet deep, and there was forty-one feet of water in it.
What had happened when the well gave out that other time?
Without doubt some practical person had come along and mended the leak, and then had come up and told the abbot he had discovered by divination that if the sinful bath were destroyed the well would flow again.
Old habit of mind is one of the toughest things to get away from in the world.
It transmits itself like physical form and feature; and for a man, in those days, to have had an idea that his ancestors hadn't had, would have brought him under suspicion of being illegitimate.
I said to the monk: "It is a difficult miracle to restore water in a dry well, but we will try, if my brother Merlin fails.
Brother Merlin is a very passable artist, but only in the parlor-magic line, and he may not succeed; in fact, is not likely to succeed.
But that should be nothing to his discredit; the man that can do _this_ kind of miracle knows enough to keep hotel." "Hotel?
I mind not to have heard--" "Of hotel?
It's what you call hostel.
The man that can do this miracle can keep hostel.
Natheless, God send you good success, and to that end will we pray." As a matter of business it was a good idea to get the notion around that the thing was difficult.
Many a small thing has been made large by the right kind of advertising.
That monk was filled up with the difficulty of this enterprise; he would fill up the others. In two days the solicitude would be booming. On my way home at noon, I met Sandy.
She had been sampling the hermits.
I said: "I would like to do that myself.
Is there a matinee?" "A which, please you, sir?" "Matinee.
Do they keep open afternoons?" "Who?" "The hermits, of course." "Keep open?" "Yes, keep open.
Do they knock off at noon?" "Knock off?" "Knock off?--yes, knock off.
She had exactly the German way; whatever was in her mind to be delivered, whether a mere remark, or a sermon, or a cyclopedia, or the history of a war, she would get it into a single sentence or die.
It was a most strange menagerie.
The chief emulation among them seemed to be, to see which could manage to be the uncleanest and most prosperous with vermin.
Their manner and attitudes were the last expression of complacent self-righteousness.
He was a mighty celebrity; his fame had penetrated all Christendom; the noble and the renowned journeyed from the remotest lands on the globe to pay him reverence.
His stand was in the center of the widest part of the valley; and it took all that space to hold his crowds. His stand was a pillar sixty feet high, with a broad platform on the top of it.
He was now doing what he had been doing every day for twenty years up there--bowing his body ceaselessly and rapidly almost to his feet.
It was his way of praying.
I timed him with a stop watch, and he made 1,244 revolutions in 24 minutes and 46 seconds.
I afterward carried out that scheme, and got five years' good service out of him; in which time he turned out upward of eighteen thousand first-rate tow-linen shirts, which was ten a day.
But he had earned it.
I can say that for him. When I saw him that first time--however, his personal condition will not quite bear description here.
You can read it in the Lives of the Saints.* [*All the details concerning the hermits, in this chapter, are from Lecky--but greatly modified.
He poured out volumes of speech to match, and contorted his body and sawed the air with his hands in a most extraordinary way.
At the end of twenty minutes he dropped down panting, and about exhausted.
Now arrived the abbot and several hundred monks and nuns, and behind them a multitude of pilgrims and a couple of acres of foundlings, all drawn by the prodigious smoke, and all in a grand state of excitement.
The abbot inquired anxiously for results.
Merlin said: "If any labor of mortal might break the spell that binds these waters, this which I have but just essayed had done it.
The mortal does not breathe, nor ever will, who can penetrate the secret of that spell, and without that secret none can break it.
The water will flow no more forever, good Father.
I have done what man could.
Suffer me to go." Of course this threw the abbot into a good deal of a consternation. He turned to me with the signs of it in his face, and said: "Ye have heard him.
Is it true?" "Part of it is." "Not all, then, not all!
What part is true?" "That that spirit with the Russian name has put his spell upon the well." "God's wounds, then are we ruined!" "Possibly." "But not certainly?
One may fail, of course; and one may also succeed. One can try, and I am ready to chance it.
I have my conditions?" "These and all others ye may name.
I will issue commandment to that effect." "Wait," said Merlin, with an evil smile.
Ye wit that he that would break this spell must know that spirit's name?" "Yes, I know his name." "And wit you also that to know it skills not of itself, but ye must likewise pronounce it?
Knew ye that?" "Yes, I knew that, too." "You had that knowledge!
Are ye minded to utter that name and die?" "Utter it?
I would utter it if it was Welsh." "Ye are even a dead man, then; and I go to tell Arthur." "That's all right.
Take your gripsack and get along.
The thing for _you_ to do is to go home and work the weather, John W.
Merlin." It was a home shot, and it made him wince; for he was the worst weather-failure in the kingdom.
Whenever he ordered up the danger-signals along the coast there was a week's dead calm, sure, and every time he prophesied fair weather it rained brickbats. But I kept him in the weather bureau right along, to undermine his reputation.
However, that shot raised his bile, and instead of starting home to report my death, he said he would remain and enjoy it. My two experts arrived in the evening, and pretty well fagged, for they had traveled double tides.
They had pack-mules along, and had brought everything I needed--tools, pump, lead pipe, Greek fire, sheaves of big rockets, roman candles, colored fire sprays, electric apparatus, and a lot of sundries--everything necessary for the stateliest kind of a miracle.
They got their supper and a nap, and about midnight we sallied out through a solitude so wholly vacant and complete that it quite overpassed the required conditions.
We took possession of the well and its surroundings.
My boys were experts in all sorts of things, from the stoning up of a well to the constructing of a mathematical instrument.
An hour before sunrise we had that leak mended in ship-shape fashion, and the water began to rise.
In nine hours the water had risen to its customary level--that is to say, it was within twenty-three feet of the top.
I know the value of these things, for I know human nature.
You can't throw too much style into a miracle.
It costs trouble, and work, and sometimes money; but it pays in the end.
Well, we brought the wires to the ground at the chapel, and then brought them under the ground to the platform, and hid the batteries there.
We put a rope fence a hundred feet square around the platform to keep off the common multitude, and that finished the work.
My idea was, doors open at 10:30, performance to begin at 11:25 sharp.
I wished I could charge admission, but of course that wouldn't answer.
I instructed my boys to be in the chapel as early as 10, before anybody was around, and be ready to man the pumps at the proper time, and make the fur fly.
Then we went home to supper. The news of the disaster to the well had traveled far by this time; and now for two or three days a steady avalanche of people had been pouring into the valley.
The lower end of the valley was become one huge camp; we should have a good house, no question about that.
Criers went the rounds early in the evening and announced the coming attempt, which put every pulse up to fever heat.
With it came Merlin, and took a front seat on the platform; he was as good as his word for once. One could not see the multitudes banked together beyond the ban, but they were there, just the same.
At length, out of the silence a noble Latin chant--men's voices--broke and swelled up and rolled away into the night, a majestic tide of melody.
It was immense --that effect!
Lots of people shrieked, women curled up and quit in every direction, foundlings collapsed by platoons.
The abbot and the monks crossed themselves nimbly and their lips fluttered with agitated prayers.
Merlin held his grip, but he was astonished clear down to his corns; he had never seen anything to begin with that, before.
Now was the time to pile in the effects.
I lifted my hands and groaned out this word--as it were in agony: "Nihilistendynamittheaterkaestchenssprengungsattentaetsversuchungen!" --and turned on the red fire!
You should have heard that Atlantic of people moan and howl when that crimson hell joined the blue! After sixty seconds I shouted: "Transvaaltruppentropentransporttrampelthiertreibertrauungsthraenentrag- oedie!" --and lit up the green fire!
After waiting only forty seconds this time, I spread my arms abroad and thundered out the devastating syllables of this word of words: "Mekkamuselmannenmassenmenchenmoerdermohrenmuttermarmormonumentenmacher!" --and whirled on the purple glare!
There they were, all going at once, red, blue, green, purple!--four furious volcanoes pouring vast clouds of radiant smoke aloft, and spreading a blinding rainbowed noonday to the furthest confines of that valley.
In the distance one could see that fellow on the pillar standing rigid against the background of sky, his seesaw stopped for the first time in twenty years.
I knew the boys were at the pump now and ready.
So I said to the abbot: "The time is come, Father.
I am about to pronounce the dread name and command the spell to dissolve.
You want to brace up, and take hold of something.
The old abbot could not speak a word, for tears and the chokings in his throat; without utterance of any sort, he folded me in his arms and mashed me.
Yes, it was pretty to see, and made me think more of them than I had done before. I sent Merlin home on a shutter.
He had caved in and gone down like a landslide when I pronounced that fearful name, and had never come to since.
He never had heard that name before,--neither had I--but to him it was the right one.
Any jumble would have been the right one.
He admitted, afterward, that that spirit's own mother could not have pronounced that name better than I did. He never could understand how I survived it, and I didn't tell him.
I was aware of that.
To those monks that pump was a good deal of a miracle itself, and they were full of wonder over it; and of admiration, too, of the exceeding effectiveness of its performance. It was a great night, an immense night.
There was reputation in it. I could hardly get to sleep for glorying over it. CHAPTER XXIV A RIVAL MAGICIAN My influence in the Valley of Holiness was something prodigious now.
It seemed worth while to try to turn it to some valuable account.
So I went to the abbot and asked for a permit for this Brother.
He said: "Ah, son, ask aught else thou wilt, and it is thine, and freely granted out of a grateful heart--but this, oh, this!
Would you drive away the blessed water again?" "No, Father, I will not drive it away.
I have mysterious knowledge which teaches me that there was an error that other time when it was thought the institution of the bath banished the fountain." A large interest began to show up in the old man's face.
My knowledge informs me that the bath was innocent of that misfortune, which was caused by quite another sort of sin." "These are brave words--but--but right welcome, if they be true." "They are true, indeed.
Let me build the bath again, Father. Let me build it again, and the fountain shall flow forever." "You promise this?--you promise it?
Say the word--say you promise it!" "I do promise it." "Then will I have the first bath myself!
Go--get ye to your work. Tarry not, tarry not, but go." I and my boys were at work, straight off.
The ruins of the old bath were there yet in the basement of the monastery, not a stone missing.
They had been left just so, all these lifetimes, and avoided with a pious fear, as things accursed.
In two days we had it all done and the water in--a spacious pool of clear pure water that a body could swim in. It was running water, too. It came in, and went out, through the ancient pipes.
The old abbot kept his word, and was the first to try it.
I caught a heavy cold, and it started up an old lurking rheumatism of mine.
Of course the rheumatism hunted up my weakest place and located itself there.
This was the place where the abbot put his arms about me and mashed me, what time he was moved to testify his gratitude to me with an embrace. When at last I got out, I was a shadow.
This would give me a chance to eat and lodge with the lowliest and poorest class of free citizens on equal terms.
There was no other way to inform myself perfectly of their everyday life and the operation of the laws upon it.
Back in the gloom of the cavern I heard the clink of a little bell, and then this exclamation: "Hello Central!
I said: "How long has this office been established here, Ulfius?" "But since midnight, fair Sir Boss, an it please you.
We saw many lights in the valley, and so judged it well to make a station, for that where so many lights be needs must they indicate a town of goodly size." "Quite right.
It isn't a town in the customary sense, but it's a good stand, anyway.
He merely said: "I will so report it." "Why, the surrounding regions are filled with the noise of late wonders that have happened here!
You didn't hear of them?" "Ah, ye will remember we move by night, and avoid speech with all. We learn naught but that we get by the telephone from Camelot." "Why _they_ know all about this thing.
Haven't they told you anything about the great miracle of the restoration of a holy fountain?" "Oh, _that_?
But the name of _this_ valley doth woundily differ from the name of _that_ one; indeed to differ wider were not pos--" "What was that name, then?" "The Valley of Hellishness." "_That_ explains it.
It is the very demon for conveying similarities of sound that are miracles of divergence from similarity of sense.
But no matter, you know the name of the place now.
Call up Camelot." He did it, and had Clarence sent for.
It was good to hear my boy's voice again.
It was like being home.
I wanted a main hand in that myself.
Are you in earnest?" "It is truly as I have said." "Why, this makes me uneasy.
Who were chosen, and what was the method?
Competitive examination?" "Indeed, I know naught of the method.
I will get one West Pointer in, anyway.
Mount a man and send him to that school with a message; let him kill horses, if necessary, but he must be there before sunset to-night and say--" "There is no need.
I have laid a ground wire to the school. Prithee let me connect you with it." It sounded good!
In this atmosphere of telephones and lightning communication with distant regions, I was breathing the breath of life again after long suffocation.
I was getting tired of doing without these conveniences.
I could have them now, as I wasn't going to wear armor any more at present, and therefore could get at my pockets. When I got back to the monastery, I found a thing of interest going on.
The abbot and his monks were assembled in the great hall, observing with childish wonder and faith the performances of a new magician, a fresh arrival.
His dress was the extreme of the fantastic; as showy and foolish as the sort of thing an Indian medicine-man wears.
He was mowing, and mumbling, and gesticulating, and drawing mystical figures in the air and on the floor,--the regular thing, you know.
He was a celebrity from Asia--so he said, and that was enough.
That sort of evidence was as good as gold, and passed current everywhere. How easy and cheap it was to be a great magician on this fellow's terms.
He asked if any would like to know what the Emperor of the East was doing now?
The sparkling eyes and the delighted rubbing of hands made eloquent answer--this reverend crowd _would_ like to know what that monarch was at, just as this moment.
What study, what labor, to have acquired a so amazing power as this!" Would they like to know what the Supreme Lord of Inde was doing? Yes.
He told them what the Supreme Lord of Inde was doing.
Then he told them what the Sultan of Egypt was at; also what the King of the Remote Seas was about.
I saw that if this thing went on I should lose my supremacy, this fellow would capture my following, I should be left out in the cold.
I must put a cog in his wheel, and do it right away, too.
I said: "If I might ask, I should very greatly like to know what a certain person is doing." "Speak, and freely.
I will tell you." "It will be difficult--perhaps impossible." "My art knoweth not that word.
The more difficult it is, the more certainly will I reveal it to you." You see, I was working up the interest.
It was getting pretty high, too; you could see that by the craning necks all around, and the half-suspended breathing.
So now I climaxed it: "If you make no mistake--if you tell me truly what I want to know--I will give you two hundred silver pennies." "The fortune is mine!
I will tell you what you would know." "Then tell me what I am doing with my right hand." "Ah-h!
There was a general gasp of surprise.
It had not occurred to anybody in the crowd--that simple trick of inquiring about somebody who wasn't ten thousand miles away.
The magician was hit hard; it was an emergency that had never happened in his experience before, and it corked him; he didn't know how to meet it.
He looked stunned, confused; he couldn't say a word.
Come," I said, "what are you waiting for?
Is it possible you can answer up, right off, and tell what anybody on the other side of the earth is doing, and yet can't tell what a person is doing who isn't three yards from you?
Persons behind me know what I am doing with my right hand--they will indorse you if you tell correctly.
Very well, I'll tell you why you don't speak up and tell; it is because you don't know. _You_ a magician!
Good friends, this tramp is a mere fraud and liar." This distressed the monks and terrified them.
They were not used to hearing these awful beings called names, and they did not know what might be the consequence.
There was a dead silence now; superstitious bodings were in every mind.
The magician began to pull his wits together, and when he presently smiled an easy, nonchalant smile, it spread a mighty relief around; for it indicated that his mood was not destructive.
He said: "It hath struck me speechless, the frivolity of this person's speech.
Had ye asked me what Arthur the great king is doing, it were another matter, and I had told ye; but the doings of a subject interest me not." "Oh, I misunderstood you.
Our Arthur the king--" "Would you know of him?" broke in the enchanter. "Most gladly, yea, and gratefully." Everybody was full of awe and interest again right away, the incorrigible idiots.
Nobody knew which of us to believe; I still had some reputation left.
I use incantations myself, as this good brotherhood are aware--but only on occasions of moment." When it comes to sarcasming, I reckon I know how to keep my end up. That jab made this fellow squirm.
The abbot inquired after the queen and the court, and got this information: "They be all on sleep, being overcome by fatigue, like as to the king." I said: "That is merely another lie.
Half of them are about their amusements, the queen and the other half are not sleeping, they ride.
It set the abbot and the monks in a whirl of excitement, and it rocked the enchanter to his base.
I spotted his progress on the succeeding day in the same way.
I kept these matters to myself.
The third day's reports showed that if he kept up his gait he would arrive by four in the afternoon.
There was still no sign anywhere of interest in his coming; there seemed to be no preparations making to receive him in state; a strange thing, truly.
Only one thing could explain this: that other magician had been cutting under me, sure.
I asked a friend of mine, a monk, about it, and he said, yes, the magician had tried some further enchantments and found out that the court had concluded to make no journey at all, but stay at home.
It was a fashion of the time.
The Commission charged with the examination of candidates for posts in the army came with the king to the Valley, whereas they could have transacted their business just as well at home.
And although this expedition was strictly a holiday excursion for the king, he kept some of his business functions going just the same.
He touched for the evil, as usual; he held court in the gate at sunrise and tried cases, for he was himself Chief Justice of the King's Bench. He shone very well in this latter office.
He was a wise and humane judge, and he clearly did his honest best and fairest,--according to his lights.
That is a large reservation.
His lights--I mean his rearing--often colored his decisions.
Whenever there was a dispute between a noble or gentleman and a person of lower degree, the king's leanings and sympathies were for the former class always, whether he suspected it or not.
It was impossible that this should be otherwise.
The blunting effects of slavery upon the slaveholder's moral perceptions are known and conceded, the world over; and a privileged class, an aristocracy, is but a band of slaveholders under another name.
A young girl, an orphan, who had a considerable estate, married a fine young fellow who had nothing.
The girl's property was within a seigniory held by the Church.
The penalty of refusal or avoidance was confiscation.
It was a very odd case, indeed. It reminded me of something I had read in my youth about the ingenious way in which the aldermen of London raised the money that built the Mansion House.
A person who had not taken the Sacrament according to the Anglican rite could not stand as a candidate for sheriff of London.
I did not see how the king was going to get out of this hole.
I append his decision: "Truly I find small difficulty here, the matter being even a child's affair for simpleness.
Pardy, the woman's case is rotten at the source.
It is the decree of the court that she forfeit to the said lord bishop all her goods, even to the last farthing that she doth possess, and be thereto mulcted in the costs.
Next!" Here was a tragic end to a beautiful honeymoon not yet three months old.
They had lived these three months lapped to the lips in worldly comforts.
Men write many fine and plausible arguments in support of monarchy, but the fact remains that where every man in a State has a vote, brutal laws are impossible.
I intimated this, gently, to the king, and it fired his curiosity.
When the Board was assembled, I followed him in; and behind us came the candidates.
H'm--I--my memory faileth to recall the name.
Condition?" "Weaver." "Weaver!--God keep us!" The king was staggered, from his summit to his foundations; one clerk fainted, and the others came near it.
The chairman pulled himself together, and said indignantly: "It is sufficient.
Get you hence." But I appealed to the king.
I begged that my candidate might be examined.
The king was willing, but the Board, who were all well-born folk, implored the king to spare them the indignity of examining the weaver's son.
I knew they didn't know enough to examine him anyway, so I joined my prayers to theirs and the king turned the duty over to my professors.
I had had a blackboard prepared, and it was put up now, and the circus began.
I judged that the cake was ours, and by a large majority. Education is a great thing.
I thought I would question him a little myself.
I said: "Can your lordship read?" His face flushed indignantly, and he fired this at me: "Takest me for a clerk?
But that didn't prove that he hadn't material in him for the disposition, it only proved that he wasn't a typewriter copyist yet.
After nagging him a little more, I let the professors loose on him and they turned him inside out, on the line of scientific war, and found him empty, of course.
He knew somewhat about the warfare of the time--bushwhacking around for ogres, and bull-fights in the tournament ring, and such things--but otherwise he was empty and useless.
Then we took the other young noble in hand, and he was the first one's twin, for ignorance and incapacity.
I delivered them into the hands of the chairman of the Board with the comfortable consciousness that their cake was dough.
It is a good four generations, and fulfilleth the requirements of the rule." "Fulfills what rule?
What good is such a qualification as that?" "What good?
It is a hardy question, fair sir and Boss, since it doth go far to impugn the wisdom of even our holy Mother Church herself." "As how?" "For that she hath established the self-same rule regarding saints.
By her law none may be canonized until he hath lain dead four generations." "I see, I see--it is the same thing.
Does the king's grace approve of this strange law?" The king said: "Why, truly I see naught about it that is strange.
All places of honor and of profit do belong, by natural right, to them that be of noble blood, and so these dignities in the army are their property and would be so without this or any rule.
The rule is but to mark a limit.
Its purpose is to keep out too recent blood, which would bring into contempt these offices, and men of lofty lineage would turn their backs and scorn to take them.
The lieutenancy is yours, fair lord.
Hold it not in contempt; it is the humble step which will lead to grandeurs more worthy of the splendor of an origin like to thine." I was down in the bottomless pit of humiliation.
I had promised myself an easy and zenith-scouring triumph, and this was the outcome! I was almost ashamed to look my poor disappointed cadet in the face.
The king was charmed with the idea. When I noticed that, it gave me a valuable notion.
I thought I saw my way out of an old and stubborn difficulty at last.
You see, the royalties of the Pendragon stock were a long-lived race and very fruitful.
Whenever a child was born to any of these --and it was pretty often--there was wild joy in the nation's mouth, and piteous sorrow in the nation's heart.
The joy was questionable, but the grief was honest.
Because the event meant another call for a Royal Grant.
Long was the list of these royalties, and they were a heavy and steadily increasing burden upon the treasury and a menace to the crown.
Yet Arthur could not believe this latter fact, and he would not listen to any of my various projects for substituting something in the place of the royal grants.
I would form this crack regiment out of officers alone--not a single private.
Finally, all princes of the blood should have free choice; join that regiment, get that great title, and renounce the royal grant, or stay out and receive a grant.
He wanted to glide out the back way and start at once; but I showed him that that wouldn't answer.
You see, he was billed for the king's-evil--to touch for it, I mean--and it wouldn't be right to disappoint the house and it wouldn't make a delay worth considering, anyway, it was only a one-night stand.
And I thought he ought to tell the queen he was going away.
He clouded up at that and looked sad.
Yes, Guenever was beautiful, it is true, but take her all around she was pretty slack.
I never meddled in these matters, they weren't my affair, but I did hate to see the way things were going on, and I don't mind saying that much.
The king sat under a canopy of state; about him were clustered a large body of the clergy in full canonicals. Conspicuous, both for location and personal outfit, stood Marinel, a hermit of the quack-doctor species, to introduce the sick.
There were eight hundred sick people present.
The work was slow; it lacked the interest of novelty for me, because I had seen the ceremonies before; the thing soon became tedious, but the proprieties required me to stick it out.
Up to this time this coin had been a wee little gold piece worth about a third of a dollar.
So I had privately concluded to touch the treasury itself for the king's-evil.
It might strain the nickel some, but I judged it could stand it.
As a rule, I do not approve of watering stock, but I considered it square enough in this case, for it was just a gift, anyway.
Of course, you can water a gift as much as you want to; and I generally do.
This batch was the first it was tried on, and it worked to a charm.
The saving in expense was a notable economy.
If you take a nation of 60,000,000, where average wages are $2 per day, three days' wages taken from each individual will provide $360,000,000 and pay the government's expenses.
Nothing could be equaler than that, I reckon.
Well, Scotland and Ireland were tributary to Arthur, and the united populations of the British Islands amounted to something less than 1,000,000.
A mechanic's average wage was 3 cents a day, when he paid his own keep.
The buttons would answer the ignorant savage as well as the coin, the coin would answer me better than the buttons; all hands were happy and nobody hurt. Marinel took the patients as they came.
He examined the candidate; if he couldn't qualify he was warned off; if he could he was passed along to the king.
A priest pronounced the words, "They shall lay their hands on the sick, and they shall recover.
Then the king stroked the ulcers, while the reading continued; finally, the patient graduated and got his nickel--the king hanging it around his neck himself--and was dismissed.
Would you think that that would cure?
Any mummery will cure if the patient's faith is strong in it.
There were piles of crutches there which had been left by such people as a testimony. In other places people operated on a patient's mind, without saying a word to him, and cured him.
In others, experts assembled patients in a room and prayed over them, and appealed to their faith, and those patients went away cured.
Wherever you find a king who can't cure the king's-evil you can be sure that the most valuable superstition that supports his throne--the subject's belief in the divine appointment of his sovereign--has passed away.
One greater than kings had arrived--the newsboy.
It was delicious to see a newspaper again, yet I was conscious of a secret shock when my eye fell upon the first batch of display head-lines.
Yes, it was too loud.
Once I could have enjoyed it and seen nothing out of the way about it, but now its note was discordant.
It was good Arkansas journalism, but this was not Arkansas.
Moreover, the next to the last line was calculated to give offense to the hermits, and perhaps lose us their advertising. Indeed, there was too lightsome a tone of flippancy all through the paper.
It was plain I had undergone a considerable change without noticing it.
I found myself unpleasantly affected by pert little irreverencies which would have seemed but proper and airy graces of speech at an earlier period of my life.
See his ad. Of course it was good enough journalism for a beginning; I knew that quite well, and yet it was somehow disappointing.
The "Court Circular" pleased me better; indeed, its simple and dignified respectfulness was a distinct refreshment to me after all those disgraceful familiarities.
But even it could have been improved. Do what one may, there is no getting an air of variety into a court circular, I acknowledge that.
There is a profound monotonousness about its facts that baffles and defeats one's sincerest efforts to make them sparkle and enthuse.
The best way to manage--in fact, the only sensible way--is to disguise repetitiousness of fact under variety of form: skin your fact each time and lay on a new cuticle of words.
As a rule, the grammar was leaky and the construction more or less lame; but I did not much mind these things.
Is it a handkerchief?--saddle blanket?--part of a shirt?
What is it made of? How thin it is, and how dainty and frail; and how it rattles. Will it wear, do you think, and won't the rain injure it?
Is it writing that appears on it, or is it only ornamentation?
They suspected it was writing, because those among them who knew how to read Latin and had a smattering of Greek, recognized some of the letters, but they could make nothing out of the result as a whole.
I put my information in the simplest form I could: "It is a public journal; I will explain what that is, another time. It is not cloth, it is made of paper; some time I will explain what paper is.
Then they all broke out with exclamations of surprise and admiration: "A thousand!
Verily a mighty work--a year's work for many men." "No--merely a day's work for a man and a boy." They crossed themselves, and whiffed out a protective prayer or two. "Ah-h--a miracle, a wonder!
Dark work of enchantment." I let it go at that.
These be the very haps as they happened, in marvelous exactness!
And might they take this strange thing in their hands, and feel of it and examine it?--they would be very careful.
These grouped bent heads, these charmed faces, these speaking eyes --how beautiful to me!
For was not this my darling, and was not all this mute wonder and interest and homage a most eloquent tribute and unforced compliment to it?
It was a villainous disfigurement.
Then I said I would find some water for him, and strolled away.
Part of my project was to get out of sight and sit down and rest a little myself.
I didn't want to break him in suddenly, but do it by degrees.
That is all right, I thought--peasants going to work; nobody else likely to be stirring this early.
But the next moment these comers jingled into sight around a turn of the road--smartly clad people of quality, with luggage-mules and servants in their train!
I was off like a shot, through the bushes, by the shortest cut.
And in plenty good enough time, too. "Pardon, my king, but it's no time for ceremony--jump!
Jump to your feet--some quality are coming!" "Is that a marvel?
Let them come." "But my liege!
